FTBfe COMPfuETH:JLe tlm *A SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVEFAMPHM1T8;COMIMIISINOLIVES rt? GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMEN,B ^TT-LSS SBA <Bc ^ANSO,HISTORIES of DIFFERENT CO&NTRIESVACCOUNTS OF YVONOEHFUL EVENTS,- SlNGttLAfiCHARACTERS, and N&tOilF&OS OFFENDERS:.USEFUL FAMILY KECErPTS, COOKERY, &C, &C-EDINBURGH:FRrNTro For ‘fttI>Rf)(.KS'ErXBR*,Jiy IF. Aiturdire, LeithI8‘2Sr# V ^^owal ubr^f OF SCQTlA? I' y1■ uV r%? '''.i1/■ v •V- >*; . i/v.-./v.-fc, •• '• '•.:...- -I -f'T«?THECompute Jjetter.JWviler.The great utility of Letter Writing is so wellknown, that the necessity of acquiring such aiart every one ■will allow. And such as are unqualified to convey their sentiments to .a friend,without a.tliiid person, know that it is llicirinterestto become acquainted with what is so necessaryand agreeable.Had letters been known at the beginning ol tncjworld,. Epistolary Writing would have been as oleas love and friendship ; for, as soon as they begaito flourish, the verbal messenger was-dropped,-the Janguagevipf the heart was commiUeel to charactersThat,preserved it,—secrecy and social intercourse was rendered more free .and agreeab!Some of the most ancient'books weie written iithis manner; and.the. Gospel was delivered by thHoly Apostles in this way..3Our business is tp.tppint <*ut to tlw reader tlje'ruetbod this art may be best obtained and t’npt it",by imiuiiing select examples oi' .ihis'species of, wri¬ting, suitable to, the most commpu, atMvell as im¬portant occasions of life. In conformity to this,.| we have compiled this little papnpbkt lor the youngistiulcnt’s practice; which, we hope,, will be founduseful to both sexes. With regard:tp the majmerami form of letters, the following gt^es ni;iynbefobspryed :— ,, • • . j-jnn r: > Jner;[: When you write to a person of consequence, Jptjiit he on gilt paper, and enclose it in a cover; domot write the direction on the. letter, itself, unlessat.bg to go by post. Begin the letter at a. gooddistance flora the top of the paper ; and if youhave ,compliments to send to aaryu>f the family orfriends insert them in the hqdy of the letter. Theirst letter in any title, the first after a full point,•as also those in refcr.cnGe to ypurse}!', if you areil’vritingrto any one of eminence, ought to begin withi|» capital. You should not be,too,particular in thelirt'cUQU of your letters to those who are welljtpown, for it is in some measure an affront, as it• iupposes the perspip not tq qf impur.ance.from. o. young Mqn to. his Futlw:, desiring, him to■j intercexU iptih Master to. lake him again infontefisontfee,.. bfiajgibnoo 3o& ot tmimloraiI j Houoilred Sir,' a^dth shame, arising fruip guilt, T write youIjqUds time. I doubt not hut you have heard ofie irregularities pf my conduct, which ^proceededfar as to induce me. to .desert the service, of the-St ot masters. It was vicious company tlrat^firsttnpted me to forsake the paths of virtue', and'•‘gleet my duty. Fully sensible of my fault, I|p. w;Uing to make every reparation in my payer?J.et me of you to intercede with my wortfmaster to take me again into his service,” and nfuture life shall be one continued act of gr ititude.I ant, Sir, your affectionate, though undutiful sorThe Father'.? Anfrwer.My Dear Child,—If ever you live to be a flther, you will know what I feci for you on tlpresent occasion. Tenderness as a parent, resenmerit on account of ingratitude, and respect for tliworthy man whose service you deserted, all colspire together to agitate mv mind to different pujposes ; but paternal affection predominates, andam obliged to act as your friend. I have writtsjto your master, and have received his answeijcopies of which I have sent inclosed. He is wilhcagain to receive you into his service, and I 1Wyour behaviour will he corresponding to so mu*lenity,—I am, your affectionate father.The Father’s Letter to the Master.My worthy Friend,—* I have often writtenyou with pleasure, hut I am constrained to addrtiyou on a subject I little expected. I have jilreceived a letter from my son, informing mehas left vour service ; his letter contains an rflknovi’ledgenteht of his offencejpnd a declarationhis resolution to act consistently for the futujHe has begged of me to intercede with you inbehalf, and I know you will excuse parental afftltloh. If you will again receive the unhap:vputh, I have great reason to hope that his condtWilt be equal to his promises.—Your sincere wcwisWer.Sir,The Masters Jnsrver:-Ever since I first considered the diffcretiictween right and wrong, I always preferred mercyo severity. I am a Father, Sir. and can feel whatou suffer. My resentment against the youngtan is less than my anxiety for his happiness. InSthe mean lime, that nothing may be wanting onijjnjy part, to make both you and him happy, all’'faults are from this moment forgotten ; niy housens open for Isis reception ; and if he will return, liejihall be treated with the same idulgencies as for"pnerly.™—I am, Sir, your affectionate Iriend.From a Young Man, Apprentice to a merchant inr town, to his Father, in the country, soliciting| pocket-money.Honoured Sir,-*-1 wrote to you lately, but nothaving received any answer makes me very un-jpasy ; although I have been as good an economistfas possible, yet I find the pocket money you allowrue, from Mr Willis, is not sufficient to support mymecessary experjees. London is such a place, thatuinless one maintains something of character, thejflire sure to be treated with contempt and ridicule.It abhor every sort of extravagance, as much asyou can desire, and the small matter which I asfcis an addition to your former allowance, is only to-toromote my own interest, and which, 1 am sure,lyou l ave as much at heart as any parent possiblytan. My master will satisfy you that my conduct,las been consistent with the strictest rules of mor—jility. I submit it to your judgment what you-hink prqper to order me. I did not mention mywant of money to Mr Willis, and have taken na¬iling more than what you ordered. I hope yottwill not be offended with what I have written ; as.I shall always consider myself happy in performingIJUy duty, and acnpiiring the favour of my honouredriwents.-T-I am, honoured Sir, your affectionate sou,The 'FdtHefs A'lsssr. ' |'My tlcar-Soii^-Mv #£&&& tor »<»» setyfaflg to|yhiv s6bnt^r! vVifaj that I hftVhhe^n an a journey toManchesfer, anri diil lirft see venr letter till lastnight. [ hAvd-'ciynstdereri your request, and foundit reasonable.’ ViMj;are mistaken if vmi think thatI'wanted *to con find- Sou to the small matter paidby ldr Willis, or to-any particular sum. You aren'ow arrived ac an agewh'eii it becomes necessaryfor you to be well acquainted with the value <rfmqneyj Your profession likewise requires it bothjjflfidfeifcfe and Sobriety m youth, naturaHy leads toiegularity of conduct in more advanced years.Virtue ensures respect, and I well know that all.manner of prec*.pts are useless where the incliuulions are vicious. 1 have left the affair ■memiouedin your letter, entirely to your own discretion;aitd I have Sent the inclosed unlimited order,doubt not prudence will direct you how toproceoth 1 am, dear child, your . affectionatefather.'yrF) (ns. a young Genilfuian at a School in the Goun-iry, to hU Brother, an Apprentice, hi London.Dear Jaeke/,;—Little master Billy Thomson iseftinS; to London to-morrow in the stage, and 1have1 sent tHisTty him to you. We are all well atselmoL'-aud I have got as far as Ovid ; I have like-'tvbe.g'ot through the rules of practice, of which i.isKafl give you a better account when 1 come tutown at the holidays. Dear brother, give my dutyto my father and mother, and tell them I long torsee them ; I pray for them and you every night. I•.speed an hour , every day in reading Dr Gold¬smith's Kotrian History. Bray, Jackey, send mtsome books, ibr I am very fond of reading, andI,7.; •pen-knito, and X shall do nioi'e for yo -a wh^ ^-leave school.—I am your loving brother,IThe Brother's 'Answer.Dear Brother,—I received your ki-.id letter, andam glad to hear you are well, as w&j 61' the- pro¬gress you make, in learliing. I !'?i'-d yotM* letter toyour father and mother, and they are much pleasedwith it. Billy Thomson dines at our. imu6 to-I morrow, and he will bring you this. Your motherlets sent you half a guinea; and as you are Sofond of books, I have sent? you lloluu’s Belles, Lettres. Mr Austin, our curate, rays, that al¬though all 'sorts of histor'y' are usuful, yet he tliinlcsyou’ shorilit begin with that of your own country ;and he has sent you a present of Russel’s Historyof England. I have sent you the knife and someother things, which you will find sealed up in theparcel. Wc all beg that you wi'l continue to| persevere, as you have begun, in an uniform coursei of virtue. It will be a pleasure to your parents,aiul turn out to your own advantage at the last.—i I am, dear brother, yours afiectiondttly.. J/’rom a young Wvman, jusl gone to Service inLondon, Id her Mother in the Country.Dear Mother,It is now a month that I have been at MrWilson’s, and I like my place very vvtH. Myi master and mistress are both worthy people. Atmy first coming here I thought every thing’strange,. and wondered to see such multitudes of people inthe streets ; but what I suffer most from is, theremembrance of yoiir’s and my father’s kindness;i 1 h gin to be more reconciled as I know you were, not-able to support me at home, i return youdhanks for the kind advice you gave me at parting,#<5fjJi! I ^fiKiCi'iyoii.r It)']))Ilml ;ls lon^j as TIHf ; let i le Ix'tir liont yen often: so witli my(!nt_v to you ond tny lutiier. tuid Jkowl love to all my.fitiey.ltls,X remCt.HJ over, yoiH- meat (lutiftil dau^litcr.J ne jUijf/ier’i Ansze<r~."My Dear Child,I am s»!i)d to hear that you have got into so wor¬thy a family. You know that we never should haveparted had it not been for your good. Continueactive aijd obliging, and the family will love andesteem you. Keep yourself employed as much asyou can. and be ready to assist your fellow ser¬vants. Never speak1 ill of any bodv ; if youhear a bad story, do not repeat it again, but let itslip out of your mind as soon as possible. If youhave any lime to spare from your business, spendsome perl of it in reading your Jlible. I pray foryou daily, and there is nothing 1 desire more thanmy degr child’s happiness. Your father desireshis blessing, and your brothers and sisters theirkind love to you. Heaven bless you, my dear,«nd continue' you to be a comfort to us all, andparticularly to—Your affectionate mother.Fmm a Young Mon in the Country, to u Merchantin London, offering Corrcxpondcnce.Sir,—My apprenticeship with Mr Wilson beingexpired, during which I observed the integrityof all your dealings with my worthy master, andmy parents havjnggiven me two hundred pounds tobegin the world, which you know is not suflicientto cany on trade to ray advantage; that 1 mayhe able to sell my goods ys cheap as possible, Iwould wish to have them from the first hand.Jl it is agreeable lo you, 1 offer i»y coirc-9spoialeHoe, not doubting but you will Use me aiwell as you did Mr Wilson, ami you may dependon my punctuality with respect to payments, and y-am, sir,—Your humble servant.-- —- ■-The Merchant's Answer.[ Sir,—Yours I received, and am extremely gladf to hear that your parents have enabled you toi open a shop for yourself. I have sent you thegoods with the waggon, and hope you will be punc¬tual in your returns, which will always enable meto serve you as low as possible, and with the bestgoods which I can procure. I heartily wish yousuccess in business, and doubt not but you wellknow, that industry and assiduity are the mostlikely means to insure it, and am,—Your obliged,Front, a young Man zchose Master had lately died/,to a Merchant in London.Sir,—I doubt not but you have heard of mylate worthy master’s death. I have served himabove twelve years ; and as my mistress is not to fcarry on the business, I have taken the shop andstock in trade, and shall be glad to deal with youin the same manner as lie did. I have incloseda Bunker’s bill for what is due at present ; aydhave to beg of you to forward the goods, as or-j dered, which you will placed to my debit, and de-| pend on punatuaiity of payment, as formerly.—iam, sir, your humble servant. ^' jtThe Answer.Sir,—Yours I received, and am extremely sor¬ry to hear of the death of my good friend, youri late master, but am obliged by your continuing a1 corresjiondence with my house, and will at all timesdo my endeavour to serve you on the best terms.s'10f hava jeiit }rour order in ten Imles bj theSpeedusll, John'Thompson,^ master, and youwill find them as good and cheap as any that areto be had in London. I heartily thank you foryour offered correspondence, and shall on all oc¬casions use you with honour. I wish you all man¬ner of success, and am, &c.To a Correspondent, requesting the Payment of asum of Monty.Sir,—Although the balance of the account be¬tween us has been so long standing in. my favour,yet I would not have applied to you at present,had not a very unexpected demand been made up¬on me for a considerable sum, which it is not inmy power to answer. When I have an opportunityof seeing you, I shall then inform you of the na¬ture of this demand, and the necessity of my dis¬charging it. If it does not suit you to remit thewhole, part will be thankfully received by—Yourhumble servant.The Answer. . *Sir,—I have just received yours, ami am -sorryto hear of your affliction. That the account be¬tween us was not sooner settled, was owing to thefailure of two principal creditors. I have just re¬ceived a remittance from Nottingham, and amgreatly pleased that it is in my power to answerthe whole of your demand. The balance betweenus is two hundred' and fifty pounds, for which Ihave sent inclosed an order on Mr Cash, (lie bank¬er. I hope you will surmount this and every otherdifficulty, and am,—Your sincere well-wisher.An urgent demand for Payment.Mr Thompson,—-The exigence of my affairs11oompels me thus importunately, nay, peremptorily,to write to you. Can yon think it possible to car¬ry on busines in the manner you act by me? youknow what promises you have made, and how,from time to time, you have broken them? Can:I therefore depend upon any new ones you make ? ;if you use others as you do me, how can you thinkof carrying on business? if you do not, what mustI think of the man who deals worse by me than,he docs by others ? if you think you can trespass,more upon me than you can on others, that is avery bad compliment to my prudence, or your owngratitude; for surely good usage should be en¬titled to the same in return. I know how to al¬low for disappointments as well as any man, butcan a man be disappointed for ever? trade is sodependent a thing, that it cannot be carried on!' without mutual punctuality. Does not the mer¬chant expect it from me for these very goods Isend you? and can I make a return to him with}.Out receiving it from you ? what can it answer togive you two year’s credit, and then be at an uncer¬tainty, for goods which I -feell at a srhall profit,-and have only six months’ credit for myself? In-deod/Sir, this will never do, I must he more punc¬tually used by you, or else must deal as little punc-j tiUilly with others ; and then what must be theconsequence? in short, sir, I expect a handsomepayment by the next return, and security for th*‘remainder; as I am very loath to take any harshmeasures to procure justice to myself, Hiytffaniiy,and creditors. Sir, 1 am, if be notyouf own fault.Your faithful friend and seuvaiit.7’Ac Anmcer.Sir,—T acknowledge with gratitude the lenityyou have at all times shown, and my being obliged12to disappomi you so often, gives me much uneasi¬ness. I do assure you, sir, that I am not so un¬grateful as my conduct has given you reason to be¬lieve. From the state of my accounts you willfind, that the greatest part of my property is inthe hands of country dealers, who, although theyseldom fail, yet their times of payment are veryprecarious and uncertain. However, to convinceyou of my integrity, I have sent by this day’s post,an order for seventy pounds, and the next weekyou shall receive one much larger. The remain¬der shall be sent in a very short time. I am deter¬mined for the future, to make the rules laid downin your excellent letter, a guide in my dealingswith those people whose dilatoriness in makinggood their payments to me, obliged me to diap-point you; and to convince you farther of myintegrity, the goods which I order, till the old ac¬count is paid off, shall be ready money. I doubtnot but you will continue to treat me with thesame good usage as formerly, and believe me to beunfeignedly,—Your obliged humble servant.Soliciting the loan of Money from a Friend.Hear sir,—I believe that since you first knew me,you will be ready to acknowledge, that no personwas ever more bashful in asking favours than my¬self. But an unexpected affliction in my family,obliges me to solicit your assistance, by the loanof about forty pounds for six months, if you canipare it without hurting yourself. I would noti.have asked it at all, were I not certain of paying;it at the time proposed,—I am, sir, yours with thgreatest sincerity.The Answer.Dear sir,—I could not hesitate one moment irisanswering your tetter ; and had I known that myworthy friend had been in the want of the stunmentioned, I should never have put his unaffectedmodesty to the blush, by suffering him to ask it;no, sir, the offer should have come from myself.However, the sum is sent by the beare-r, but letme beg that, if you consider me really as yourfriend, you will suit the payment to your own cir¬cumstances, without being confined to a particulartime ; and not only so, but that you will likewisecommand my assistance in every thing else where¬in I can serve you.From a Tenant to a Landlord, excusing delay ofpayment.Sir,—I have been your tenant above ten yearsin the house where I now live, and you know that1 never failed to pay my rent quarterly when due.At present I am extremely sorry to inform you,that from a variety of losses and disappointments,I am under the necessity of begging that you willindulge me one quarter longer. By that time Ihope to have it in my power to answer your justdemand, and the favour shall he ever gratefullyacknowledged by,—Your obedient humble servant.The Answer.Sir,— It was never my design to oppress you.I have had long trial of your honesty, and there¬fore you may rest perfectly satisfied concerningyour present request. No demand shall be madeby me upon you for rent, until it suits you to payit ; for I am well convinced you will not keep itfrom me any longer,—I am yours sincerely.-From a Country Farmer, on the same occasion.Honoured Sir,—I am extremely sorry that,14thl’ough a variety of unforeseen accidents, I amobliged to write you on such a subject as this.The season last year was bad, but I was enabledto pay you. This has turned out much worse,and it being so long before we could get the cornhome, it is not vet fit to be sold. I only beg yourpatience about two months longer, when I hopeto pay you faithfully, with gratitude,—I am, sir,your honest tenant, and humble servant.The Ariszcer.Mr Clover,—I hope that, from'the whole of myconduct ever since you first became my tenant,you cannot have reason to allege any thing againstme. 1 never treated you with rigour, as I alwayscobsideid you as an industrious, honest man.Mc.ke yourself perfectly easy concerning the pay¬ment of your rent, till I come to the country inthe summer, and if tilings he as you fepresenf,(and I doubt not hut they are,) you may he as¬sured 61" every reasonable indulgence,—I am yours.From h ifpung Man who had an 'oppnrtunkj to setzip in Business, Inti destitute of Money, to a Gen-Hem an of reputed Benevolence.Mon. Sir,—When you look at the subscription,you will remember my serving you with goodsu hen I wTas apprentice to Mr ITopkin, grocer inthe Strand. I have been a little above two yearsout of ray time, which was spent in Mr Hopkitdsservice, and the greatest part of my wages havebeen given to support an aged another confined toa sick-bed. Mr Hopkin died about ten days ago,am! havin'^ no family, his executors (who are al¬most strangers to me) are going to let the shop,■•’v worthy master lias left me one hundredpounds hi ids will, hut that is no way sufficientr / t/e tlJ15to purchase the stock in trade; nor v,ill tfiey giveany longer than twelve months’ credit. Be¬ing well acquainted with the trade, as also thecustomers, and having such a f^ir prospect of set¬tling in business, I have presumed to lay it beforeyou. 1 have often heard of your willingness toserve those under difficulties, especially young peo¬ple, beginning the world. If you approve of this,and;will advance so much on my bond, payable ina limited time, it shalj be as safe as if in tin; handsof your banker. I shall be as frugal and indus¬trious as possible,,and the whple of my time‘snailbe,employed in the closest attendance on tlie d'.itiosof my station,, arid shall ppknowledge .ycur'kind-ness with gratitude.as long.as I live in this world.I hope this will not give’you ’any offence, and ifyou give me leave, I will wait on you, along withone of lac executors, that you may hear their pro¬posals. My character^ as to honesty and fidelity,will bear the strictest inquiry,.as is testified in mylate master’s will, as also by all with whom I haveany dealings.—I am, honoured and worthy sir, yourobedient humble servant.Ucccmineruiing a Man-ScrvaiiL.Sir,—The bearer lias served me with integrityand fidelity these.three years, but having a dhsiveto settle in Lomleu, he left, my house andm a• week ago, and by a letter received from him litisday, I find you are willing to employ him an myrecommendation, arid it is with the greatest plea¬sure Tcompiy with this request. His bdliavour,while with me, was strictly honest, cober, and dili¬gent, arid I doubt not but it will be‘the'siiriie withypii. I have,•sent; this in one to himself,'ami if youemploy him, I hope he will give salisfactiori,—1am, sir, your InmiLTc servant.il(iFrom a ijoung Tradesman lately entered into Busi¬ness, to his Father, asking hi<t consent to marry.Honoured Sir,—It is now above three yearssince I entered into business for myself, and findit increasing. There is a very worthy family inthis neighbourhood, with whom I have been sometime acquainted. 'They are in good circumstances,and have a daughter, an amiable young woman;I have paid my addresses to her, and likewise ob¬tained the parents’ consent, on condition that it isagreeable to you. Upon the strictest inquiry, youwill find her such a person, that you will have noobjection to. I endeavour to act consistent withthe rules you were pleased to prescribe for myconduct. The parents are to pay me five hundredpounds on the day of marriage; and as they haveno other children, their property becomes ours attheir death. In whatever light you are pleased toconsider this, 1 shall abide by your direction, andyour answer, in the meantime, is impatiently ex¬pected by,—Your dutiful son.The Father's Answer.My dear Son,— I received your letter, and myreason for not sending sooner is, it being an affairof importance. I wrote to Mr Johnston, myagent, requesting him to inquire concerning thefamily you desire to be allied with; and I am gladto hear his account does not differ from your own.Your reasons for entering into the marriage stateare every way satisfactory, and I am glad to hearthat the person you have placed your affections onis so deserving. When you have fixed the wed¬ding-day, 1 will come to London, to be present atthe ceremony, and spend a few days with my oldfriends. I hope you will continue to attend yourbusiness with the same diligence you have hitherto.17rtaoty and if you should live to an <.>ld ago, youvill then he aide to retire from trade with honour,lKith to yourself and family,—I ;yn, dear son,your affectionate father.'From a yowg Mow, jtt.il out of his A pprentice-dhiv. to hit* Xv'feiheort, a Servant in the nc'urk-hour hood.Dear Sally.—I have been long in love with you,hut was afraid to tell you. When I go with youto Bagn'gge, or Sadler’s Wells, I am almost like afool, and altogether unfit for company. I think of1 you all day, and at night I dream of my dearSally. 1 am well settled in wotk, and my wagesare eighteen shillings every week. You and 1 eanlive on that, and I shall bring it home untouchedi on Saturday evening. And I will not go to anyif ale-house, hut, as soon as my work is done, returnIliome to my dearly beloved Sally. I hope, mydearj you will not he angiy, for I am really inlove. I cannot he happy unless you are mine. Ii| wa- afraid to mention this to you, but if you will! leave an answer at my lodgings, I will meet you! next Sunday, after dinner, at the Shepherd andShepherdess, when we will take a walk to Hornseyhouse and drink tea. How happy shall I be tohear from my charmer ! but a thousand times moreto think she will be mine.—I am, my dear, yourreal lover.■The Answer.Dear Jack,—I received your very kind letter,hut I don’t know what to say in answer. Al¬though I would lie glad to marry, yet you men areso deceiving, that there is no such thing as trustingyou. There is Tom Tind>cr the carpenter, andJack Hammer the smith, who have-not been mar¬ried above six months, and every night come nomei8ldrunk, and beat - their-wives.: What a Uiiselablclife is that, Jack, and how do 1 know but you maybp as bad to .me ? how do 1 know but you, likethem, may get drunk every night, and beat meblack and blue before morning ! I do assure you.Jack, if I thought that would be the case, I wouldaernb floors, and scour sauce-pans, as long as Llive. But possibly you may not be so bad,.forthere is Will Copper the brazier, and Jack Trotterthe asstnan, who are both very happy with theirwives; they are both home-bringing husbands,and have every day a hot joint;of meat, and a. potof beer. I know not. yet v,hat 1,slips.Id do ; bptas 1 like a walk to Hornsey, I will meet jyou .atthe Sluipherd and Shepherdess on Sunday afterdinner, and then we w^li talk more of the matter.—Lam;, dear-duck, your most obediput servant.r - -, tFrom a young L<idy lo a Gentleman, complaininga/ Indij/krcucc.Sir,—However light you may make of promises,yet I am foolish enough to consider them as some¬thing more than trifles ; and am likewise inducedto believe that the man who volunUiiily breaks apromise, will Upt pay much regard, tq an oa'.h; andif. so, in wlial 1 ght must l eoncieler your cosiduct?Did I not give you piy •promise to be yourg, andJiad you no other reason for soliciting, than merelyto gratify your vanity . a brutal gratification iu-dee.l, to triumph over. the weakness of a woman,whose greatest fault was, that she loved you. isay loved you ; for it wag in consequence of llyttpars’on i first consented to become yours, liasyour condpet, sir, been consistent with my submis¬sion, or with your own .solepin profession ? is itepusistenl with the tharaclcr of .a 'gentleman, firstto obtain a v/uman s consent, and aUtnvatd bivtg19tUat. 'djs-jL-aj'dyti h*Vji ;»pd Hjund one rribre i^rcfc-able toinJ u i lisa.:' •Dvi noi equ^cjqat®, I.have tootBiiVHiui.i* liiooiV. pf yom- hi ancerUy ; I saw youyes unlay walk itf# with Miss reason, and am in*that you have proposed niarriage to her.\Vhalever you may til ink,, sir, I have a spirit oidisdain, and even reseutnisnt, equal to your iti-gratltude, and can treat the wretch with a properiuddiereuce, who can make so slight a matter oi‘the most solemn promises. Miss Benson may ireyour wife, but she will receive into her arms aperjured husband; nor can ever the superstructure’be lasting, which is built on such a ioimdaturn.I leave you to the stings of your conscience.—I.a-at/J,Wdhjfh,rio7 imolni at ?iif) lno« a/ah 1.M   The Gentlemans Answer.My dear 'Angel,—-For by that name I limitstill call you ; has cruelty entered into your tendernature, or has some designing wretch imposed onyour credulity? My dear, i am not what youhavo represented f I am neither false nor perjured,—1 never proposed marriage to Miss Benson,—4never designed qg and my sole reason fur walking with her was, that I bad been on a visit to herbrother, who you know is my attorney. Andwas it any fault in me to take a walk, into theFelds along with him and his sifter ? surely pre¬judice itself cannot say so; but I am afraid youhave been imposed on by some designing person,who hud private views and private ends to answerby such baseness. But whatever may have, beenthe cause, 1 am entirely innocent; and to convinceyou of my sincerity, beg that the day of marriagemay be next week. My affections never so muchas wander iroin the dear object of my Jove : in youage centered all my hopes of felicity ; with you20only can I be happy, Keep me not in misery onemoment longer, by entertaining groundless jeal¬ousies against one who loves you in a mannersuperior to the whole of your sex ; and I can setat defiance even malice itself. Let me beg youranswer by my servant, which will either make mehappy or miserable. I have sent a small parcelby the bearer, which 1 hope you will accept as aconvincing proof of my integrity ; and am,—Yoiirs for ever.From a young Woman, a Servant in London, toher Parents, desiring their consent to Marry.Honoured Father and Mother,I have sent this to inform you, that one MrWood, a young man, a cabinet-maker, has paidhis addresses to me, and now offers me marriage.1 have told him I would do nothing without yourconsent, and therefore have sent this by WilliamJones, your neighbour, who called on me, and willinform you particularly of his circumstances.The young man has been in business about twoyears, and is very regular and sober. The peoplein the neighbourhood esteem him, and his businessis increasing. I think 1 could live extremely hap¬py with him, but do not choose to give him anypromise, until I have first heard from you : what,ever answer you send shall be obeyed byYour affectionate daughter.The Parents' Answer.Dear Child,—We received your letter by MrJones, and the character be gives of the young manis so agreeable, that we have no objection to yourmarrying him. You will seriously consider theduties of that important state; consider well withyourself, that according to your conduct to eachnother, you must either be happy or misereWp.There are many occurrences in life, in which thebest of men’s tempers may be ruffled, on accountof losses or disapointments? if your iiusband shouldat any time be so, endeavour to make him as ea^yas possible. Be careful of every thing he commitsto your keeping; and never affect to appear su¬perior to your station ; although your circumstan¬ces may be easy, yet whilst in trade you wilf finda continual want of money for many different purposes. It is possible some may despise you, butthey will be forced in the end to acknowledge theduties of a married state. May God direct youin every thing for the best, is the sincere prayer ofYour loving father and mother.From a.jealoun Lover la Jus Mistress.O Madam, madam !-—I am neither blind nordeaf—I can both see and hear !—Your partialityfor Mr Careless is yvery day before my eyes, andyour tenderness for him has now reached my ears ’But why have you deceived me? why promisedconstancy and lore, and drove one to madness anddespair? What action of my life has merited thisbase return? Have I not loved?—Yes, cruelbeauty ; doated to distraction ; and wherefore useme thus ? As I cannot bear the thought of beinga dupe any longer, I wish to know your real andcandid sentiments. If it be your pleasure that allour former vows—all our fond protestations shoul Ibe revoked, I am content; for I despise a lifelesthand. The heart is the chief of my ambition.Your candouf therefore will greatly oblige, Ma¬dam,—Your distracted lover. vFrom a Lover after receiving uoundt in Lattic tohis Mistress. <!' .My Dear Caroline,—You have often declare!mtlmt nofc the hpautv on my person, hut th?plysiiments of mv mind, tiad yairied your afTeobions ;happy for nie, if this be true, for I cannot longerboast of those personal charms, with which my'.looking-glass once Mattered me, I have lost oneof my eyes; I am deprived of a leg; but they aregone in an honourable cause, I hope my dear Car¬oline will give me no reason to regret their loss.i—t.I did not think proper to see yon, till you werepreviously prepare for my reception ; for fear myappearance might not o®ly shock but disgust. If 1therefore you are equally anxious, as I am, for aninterview, signify it by an immediate reply, and ifagreeable I shall fly on the wings of love to provemyself,—Your devoted servant.The Lady's Aasrver.j. Dear William,—If I grieve and seem unhappyat your misfortunes, roy sorrow, believe me, is pure,•and proceeds from anxious apprehension that yourhealth may thereby be impaired. I prayed to heavento preserve your life; it is preserved, and I amthankful. Oh ! then let me see you as soon aspossible, and believe me,—Your sincere.A Love Letter.'—Tzm ways'qfwading..Madam,—The great love and tenderness I hareihitlierto expressed for you (is. false, and I nowfeel that my indifference towards you) increasesevery davg and the more I see of you, the more(you appear ridiculous in mine eyes, and an ob¬ject of contempt.) I feel inclined, and in everyVespept disposed and determined to (hate you.Believe me, I never had the least inclination to)offer you my hand. Our last conversation has,I assure you, (left a tedious and wretched insipi¬dity, which by no means‘has) possessed me withtbemost exalted opinion of-vour character. (Yourf-23' inconstant tamper woultl .make.me ahvays mise¬rable.) A)i:t if ever w<.> are united, T shall expevi-|, once: iVothing lint (the fearful hatred of "my paritriW,added to an, evcrlasti^0al^:-) plcamie in liviHgwith yOu. I have indeed a faifhfnl' heart :(td'hc-1 stmV, Uht,'liowevtr,' do not wish you to imagine[ that it is) 'at your service; it is impossible I shduldgive il to one more (inconstant and cffprWom thti(i1 yourself, and ope who is less) capalile to do hofi-our to mv choice and to my family. (Yes, ma-'dani, I beg an'd desire you will be pdrstradetl that)I think sincerely, and you will do me the greatestfavour (to avoid rue. I shall readily excuse yourtaking the trouble) to give me an answer to this;vour letters are Full of (n'onsciite and impertin-j eliee, and have not the shadow of) wit or goodsense. Adieu, and believe truly thht I am (soI ‘averse to yo'u, it is iinpOksibie I shenid'Cver be)■ V1 *",<v nobirnj »• fVi f .< ■ y ; f r* r t I t i • i *\f\’ *JV-I rf • f ITFrovl a' Ge)ittein:qh, wfidtiet Wife xms lett-elg Ddfdto d Clergyinim 'in the Neighhourhdod. ' ”‘Eevercnil Sir,-—You have often, bfcftli 'in pubiibaiid privkafe/'etilarged on thbke comforts and'co'n-| solatiohs whjclr Christianity awards to'the affriefftk1;and, if ever tlvCy wirC ncceSsargto one lindcr thosbj circtlmsta'nces1, tliby must be to myself.' Aboutseven last night my wife digd in child-bed', and Ialh''left‘tlie discojisdlate phrent 6f five jrotihg chil-dr'ei’f. Had you seen the di’cihfciating torturesiindeV which she fA'pired', it would have retnindedyoti of tjie emphasis of the curse pronouriced'iipohour first parents’ for their rebellion again-t God.WfiMA *ihe ‘saw the king of terrors appr'orffcb, 'shewas all resignation to the'divine will, and left thislow'tr'h'drid in the Sfamfej:manner, ahH7witli thesame’clieeffiiValacrity. its if she bad been goirig'toVisit a friMM.’or attend fhe ker^lce of her Maker,. .u! ... 1 -s!..b (•], .. . •,« ; ,v: numb m v- ■ ■ ~ ' ^94Overwhelmed with grief, I entered lier chamber,when she exerted the small remains of strength,an I spoke to me as follows :—“ My Dear,—I am now going the way of allflesh, but God, the everlasting God, will be yourcomfort. When I first, became yours, I lookedfor ail the happiness consistent with the state ofhuman nature in this vale pf misery ; and I mustconfess that my highest, wishes have been grati¬fied, and your tenderness has been even more thanI could expect. You may have seen faults in myconduct, but I do assure you, (and is this a timeto dissemble P) they were altogether involuntary.My principal .study was to obtain the favour ofthat God before whom I am soon to appear. Myobedience to the commands of my God has beenalien led with many imperfections, but I trust forpardon and acceptance in the merits of my dearRedeemer.” Here she fainted,—looked wistfullyat me, and sited a tear over her dear children whowere erring by her bed.—She attempted to speak,but in vain. At last, fixing her eyes towardsheaven, she repeated those beautiful words: “ Intothy hands I commit my soul, for thou hast re¬deemed me, O thou God of my salvation,” andthen closed her eyes, never to be opened till thesound of the last trumpet. I was sunk for sometime in the greatest distress, looking on the deardeparted remains of my beloved spouse, and en¬deavouring to silence, by persuasion, the cries ofher orphan children. At last I recollected that Ihad still a friend left in you, to whom I might,with a view of consolation, lay open the inmostrecesses of my heart. I am afraid your indisposi¬tion may binder you from visiting me, and if so,let me beg that you will, in the mean time, favourMie with a few lines. At present, every sort ofconsolation will be acceptable—1 am, 6sc.II