THECROSS OP CHRIST,At the Visitation of the Reverend JohnBrown, D. D. Archdeacon of Northamp¬ton ; held at All-Saints, in Northampton,on May 10, 1753.Galatians vi. 14. Cod forbid that / jhould glory, fivein the Croft of our Lord Jefus Chr f.THE AUTHOR’S LAST SERMON.By the late Reverend JAMES HERVEY, A.Redior of Wefton-Favell, in Northamptonfliire.T H ECHRISTIAN’S GLORY,ASERMONPREACHEDtoAvhich IS AD»ED,r*GLASGOWPRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON!GLASGOWT H tCROSS OF CHRIST,THECHRISTIAN’S GLORY.Gal. vi. 14. God forbid that I foould glory, jfave in the Crofs of our Lord Jefus Chriji.THE crofs of Chrift was the favouritetopic of St. Paul’s contemplation; Thecrofs of Chrift was the chcfen fubjeft of his |fermons, and the grand theme of his writ¬ings. At all times, and in every capacity,he profefled, he avowed, he gloried in thecrofs of Chrift. Nay, whatis veryremarkable,he gloried in nothing elfe—and, what is ftillmore obfervabley he abhorred the thoughtof glorying in any thing elfe. He fpeaksof fuch a practice# in the language of detef-tation and dread, accounting it a high de- ,]gree both of fcflly and wickednefs : God for¬bid that l Jhould glory fave in the crofs of ourLord Jefus Chriji.It may therefore be an employ worthy ofour prefent attention, to enquire into thenature, the reafonablenefs, and the wifdomof this refolution. All which, I hope willappear if we confider,I. In what the apoftle would not glory.II. In what he did glory.HI.* What reafon he had to glory in thecrofs of Chrift.IfTHE CROSS OF CHRIST, &c. 3Thefe,points being briefly dirpatcbed, Ifhall beg leave to .add a word of application,fuggefied by the tenor of the difcourfe, andadapted to the circumftances of my feveralbearers. And may that adorable Jefus, whohas exchanged his Crofs for a heavenlyCrown, accompany all with his divine blef-fing ! Let us then enquire,I. In what the apoftle did not glory.Not in the greatnefs of his learning, as afcholar. He was brought up at the feet ofGamaliel; educated by the moft famous tu¬tor of the age. Nor was his genius or his' induftry, inferior to the other advantages ofhis education. Yet all thefe advantages,with their correfpondent acquifitions, heaccounted no better than pompous igno¬rance, or refined folly.Not in the ftricfnefs of his life, as a Jew,1 In this refpeft he profited above his equals;was taught according to the perfect manner ofj the law of the fathers; after the JtrideJt fed' of their religion, he lived a Pharfce: was‘ zealous, exceeding zealous, of the wholecerimoniai law, and all the traditional con-i ftitutions. Which accomplifhments multfinilh his chara&er among his countrymen ;muft open his way to Tome of the firft hon¬ours of the pation; and give him a nameamong, thofe worthies who were reputedthe excellent of the earth. But what otherscounted gain, this he counted lofs for Clirifi.Not in the eminency of his gifts, nor in4 THE CROSS OF CHRIST,the extent of his ufefulnefs of a Chriftianminifter. He had been caught up into thethird heaven ; had heard the words of God,and feen the vifion of the Almighty; hadwrought all manner of wonders and figns,and mighty deeds.—What was ftiH morevaluable, he had planted churches, and con- 'verted fouls. His labours were gone outinto all lands, and his words into the endsof the earth. Yet all thefe acquirements,hefore the infinite God, were defefiive; allthefe performances, in point of juftification,were infufficient. Therefore, in none ofthefe he gloried. Which reminds me of thefecond inquiry.IL In what did the apoftle glory ? He glo¬ried in a crofs. Strange ! What fo fcanda-lous as a crofs ? On a crofs rebellious Haveswere executed. The crofs was execrableamong men, and accurfed even by God,•yet the apofile glories in the crofs. Cruci- 2fixion not being ufed among us, the expref- Ilion does not found fo harfii, neither is theidea fo horrid. But to the ear of a Galatian,it conveyed much the fame meaning, as ifthe apoftle had gloried in a halter, gloriedin tie gallows, gloried in a gibbet.Stupid creature, perhaps fome may reply,to undervalue the fame fubftantial endow¬ments, and glory in infancy itfelf! But ftopa moment, and hear the apoftle farther.He glories in the crofs of Chrift ; that illufi.irious .perfon, who was ar.Sinted h> be theTHE CHRISTIAN’S GLORY. 5all-inftrudting prophet, the all-attoningpriejt, and the all-conqnering king of thechur ch, In the crofs of Chrilt Jefus; v. ho,by the difcharge of all thofe important oi:i«ces, fhould fave his people from the domi¬nion of fin, and from the damnation of hell.In the crofs of thrift Jefas our Lord ; andnot ours only, but Lord of all; who hathon his vejlure, and on his thigh written. KinoOF KINGS AMD LoKD OF LOP.D?. -And is it pofiible for any human heart tocontemplate the crofs of io divine a Beiyggand not to glory ? is it pollible to fay, An¬gels, he rules over you; but he di5d, hedied on a crofs for me: and not exult infuch tranfporring beneficence r—This willbe more evident, if we examine,III. What reafon the apoftle had to gloryin the crofs of Chrift. The crofs, though in.i itfelf an ignominious tree; yet, being thecrofs of Chrift, is infinitely ennobled. Itbecomes the tree of life; it bears the divinefruit; its clufters are all fpiritual and hea¬venly bleffings. Two or three of thofe duf¬fers you will permit me to feleftand maythe God of all mercy make them better thawa feaft to every humble foul.One bleffing is the pardon of fin ; the par-L don of all fin, original and adual; Sin thatis remembered, and fm that1' is forgotten :Sin, however circumftanced, or howeverl aggravated, the pardon of ill was purchafedby the death of Chrift.;—completely pur-6' THE CROSS OF CHRIST,chafed;—fo that, againfl: the true believer,fin fhall never rife up in judgement; ihallnet fo much as be mentioned unto him;fhall be done away as tho’ it had never been.For, thus faith the ambaffadot of the Princeof peace,. Be it known unto you, men and bre¬thren, that through this man is preached unto youtheforgivnefs of fins ; and by him ail that believeare juftified from all things. Oh, my foul!my guilty foul! what are all the kingdomsof the world, and the glories of them, com¬pared with this ineffable blefhng! Yet thisis but one among a multitude.Another benefit, accruing from the crofsof Chrift, is reconciliation with God. Whenwe were enemies, we were reconciled to God, bythe death of his Son. Not pardoned only,but accepted; from a Rate of enmity, reftor-ed to a ftate of favpur! even that favourwhich is better than life. A privilege ofinch fupevlative excellency, that it was cele¬brated in the hymns of angels. When theheavenly hofl offered a fong, this was thefubjeft of their harmonious joy; Glory be toGod in the higheft ; and on earth peace, good¬will towards men. “ By the birth of this“ wonderful Child, and the death he fh all“ fuflain, peace is made between heaven“ and earth: and not peace only, but a“ divine frientilhip commences. God re-*' gards the poor apoifate race of men, not“ only without indignation, but with com-“ placency and delight. He rejoices over“ them to do them good.”THE CHRISTI AN’S GLORY. 7Another benefit is holinefs; or, if youpleafe, the true, the Chriftian morality.Let none think, the believer in Jefus difpa-! rages true morality. True morality is theimage ot t;he bleffed God : It is moft charm¬ingly delineated throughout the whole Bi¬ble: It is the beginning of heaven in thehuman foul; and its proper origin is from,the crofs of our divine Mailer. , For, thro’the merits of his death, finners are madepartakers of the holy Spirit; tvho writes up¬on their hearts, and makes legible in theirconverfation, what was anciently writtenupon the mitre of the high-prieft. Holinessto the Lord. And oh! what a motive isthe crofs of Chrift to the exercife of everyvirtue ! He died; my Lord, my Judge, myKing died ; to redeem me from all iniquity, 'and make me zealous of good works. Howpowerfully, far beyond any naked inflruc-tions, or abltracl reafonings, do fuch con-fiderations invite us, urge us, conflrain us,t to renounce all ungodlinefs, and adorn thegofpel of God our Saviour !Another bleffing is vi&ory over death.This alfo is the fruit of that once detefted,but now ever beloved tree. For thus it iswritten, That through death, he might deftroyhim that had the power of death, that is, thedevil; and deliver them who, through fear ofdeath, were all their life-time fubjecl to bon¬dage. The devil L faid to have the powerof death j becaufe, by. tempting too fuccefS'.jr \ « ,8 THE CROSS OF CHRIST,fully our firft parents, he brought death ir^to the world; becaufe, by tempting theirpofterity to fin, and too often prevailing,he arrays death in horror; he arms deathwith its fling. But Chrifl, by expiating ourguilt, has difarmed this laft enemy; has ta¬ken away its fling, and made it not lofs, 'but gain to die. The'gay, and the healthy, |know not how to form an eflimate of thisdeliverance; nor can any words of mine de-fcribe it with proper energy. Go to dyingbeds; there you will learn its true worth.Afk fome agonizing friend; he, and he alonecan tell you, what a bleffing it is to have 1the king of terrors, converted into a mef-fenger of peace.One blefling more I would mention, andtarneilly wifh it, in due'time, to all my hear¬ers ; an entrance into heaven. This too isthe produce of our Redeemer’s crofs. St.John faw a bright affembly of happy beings,clothed with white robes, and palms in theirhands, rejoicing before the throne of God..‘i'hefe, faid one «f the venerable elders, arethey who came out of great tribulation^ andhave wafhed their robes, ’and made them white,in the blood of the'Lamb. Therefore arethey before the throne. -They came out of-greattribulation : They fuffered, it is probable, inthe fervke of Chrift: perhaps they laid downtheir lives for his fake. But tins was nottheir paffport into the regions of blifs. Theywafhed their robes in the blood of the LameTHE CHRISTIAN’S GLORY. ?tliey hid applied to th’eir own fouls tV meritand atonement of the crucified Jefus. I5ythis means they were prefented without fpot,-and blamelefs; on this account they wereadmitted to fee the King of heaven in hisbeauty ! and to be ever, ever with the Lord.Since then the crofs of Chrift was demon-ftrative of fuch ftupenduous love; fmce itis -produ&ive of benefits innumerable, inva¬luable, and eternal; was there not a caufefor the apoftle to glory on this behalf? Nay,might not the very ftones have cried out,to reproach him with inlenfibility and in¬gratitude, if he had neglected to glory inthe crofs of Chriil, And fince this love wasfhewcd, ,thef£ benefits were procured, notfor him only, but for us, and for all gene¬rations ; does not this afford me an oppor¬tunity of applying the do&rine to each par¬ticular bearer ?i. Let me a^drefs, or. rather let me con¬gratulate my brethren in the miniftry. Tho’-you cannot controul the laws of nature;though you cannot fee into the fecrets of fu¬turity, you have the fame caufe of gloryingwith the very chief of the apoftles, a caufeof glorying, which that holy man of Godefieemed far above all fuch miraculous abi¬lities. You have the crofs of Chri,!! for youritudy, as men; for your hope, as Chrifli-ans; for your preaching, as minifters.For your ftudy, as men. Here the rea-foning faculties' may exert themfeives with10 THE CP.0SS OF CHRIST,everlaVng improvement, and everlaftingdelight. Here we contemplate the wonders,the unparalleled wonders, of a God mademan; dying as a pattern of patience, as amartyr for truth, as an atl-perfeft facrificefor fin. Here the Lord Jehovah hath fullygranted what his fervant Mofes fo earneftlyrequefted he hath made all his glory topafs before the aftoni/hed eyes of angels andof men. Here juftice has Jet her mod: aw¬ful terrors in array; even while goodnefsappears, with inexpreffive lovelinefs, andthe mod: attractive beauty. Here truth,more unlhaken than a rock, takes her im¬moveable Hand : and mercy, tenderer thanthe mother’s tears, yearns with bowels ofeverlading pity. In a word, the crofs ofChrjft is a confpicuous theatre, on whichall the divine perfections unite, .and harmo¬nize, and Ihine forthwith tranfeendent luftre.As chriftians, we have, in the crofs ofChrid, the richeft provifion for our ownfpiritual wants. This is a foundation of thefublitned: hope, and a fountain of the mod:exuberant joy: this affords matter of thedeeped: humility, and yields fuel for the moltflaming love. Faith in our crucified Jefusis an ever-aCtive principle of the moff: chear-ful and ex,aCt obedience: is an ample andinexhauftible magazine, from which we mayfetch arms to conquer, abfoiutely conquerthe allurements of the world, the foiicitatibnsof the flelh, and the temptations of the de-THE CHRISTIAN’S GLORY, uvll.—:By this a way is opened for us intothe holy of holies: and what may we notventure to alk, what may we not expe& toreceive, who have the blood of the everlaft-ing covenant to plead in all our approachesto the throne of grace ? Having thereforefuch an high priel!; having in this crofs^unfearchable riches; who (hall make ourglorying void ? What (hall hinder us from,rejoicing and faying, Bleffed be God for the.opening beauties of fpring ! Blefifed be Godfor the expe&ed fruits of autumn! Blelfedbe God for ten {houfand thoufand gifts ofhis indulgent providence! but above all,blefled be God for the crofs of Chrift.As miniders of the gofpel, we are not leftto fet before our hearers a fyftem of refinedheathenii’m; or to entertain them with coldfpiritleis lectures of virtue. No ; we havethe infinitely tender love, the immenfelyfree grace, of thebleeding, dyinglMMANUEt,to difplay, to improve, to enforce. And isthere a topic in the whole compafs of orato¬ry, is there an argument amidft all the {lores,of reafon, fo admirably calculated .to touchthe finefi movements of the foul, to ftrikeall the inmoft fprings of a&ion, with the moltperfuafive, the mod commanding energy ?Would we alarmthe fupine, or intimidate theprefumptuous ? we may call them to beholdGod’s own Son weltering in blood. God’sown Son transfixed with the arrows of juf-tice; we may bid them confider, if judge-12 THE CROSS OF CHRIST,ment begins with the immaculate Mediator,where (hall the irreclaimable finner appear ? |how will he efcape the flroke ? how bear the jweight of God’s everlafting vengeance ?"Would we comfort the diftreffed ; we maypoint them to an atonement, whofe merits ;jare infinite, and able to fave to the very ut- ]termoft ; we may lead them to a righteouf- Jnefs, whofe efficacv is unbounded, and fuf-j Ificient to jullify the ungodly. And whatbalm can be fo fovereign for an wounded jconfcience ?'Are we to fupport the weak,and animate the doubting ? here we may !ihew them promifes, free promiles, exceed¬ing great and precious promifes, ratified bythe oath of Jehovah, and feared by the bloodof his Son. And what cordials can be foreiterative to the drooping Chriltian ?In Ihort, the dq&rine of the crofs is Ant¬ed to anfwer all the great ends of our mi-niltry, ansi promote all the truly valuableinterefis of our people. By this the holyfpirit delights to work: and this, 0 Satan,jhall be thy plague ; this, 0 Sin, (hail be thydejlrufihn. However, therefore, the crofsmight be to the Jews a ftumbling-block, andto the Greeks foolilhnefs; God forbid thatwe fhould glory in any thing elfe! Let thisbe the Alpha and Omega, the beginningand ending, of all our public miniftrations.Let us leave a favour of this knowledge,which is far better than precious ointment,in ev«ry private company. Let it appear,THE CHRISTIAN'S - GLORY. r5from all our converfation, that the affe&ionsof our heart* and the labours of our life, aredevoted, wholly devoted, to our adoredRedeemer’s crofs. Happy the people whoare under the care of fuch minifters ? andbleffed the minifters who walk accordingto this rule!2. Let tne exhort all the true believers ;thofe who are vile in their own eyes, and towhom Chrift alone is precious. Remember,brethren, what is written in the prophets:it is a defcription of your eltate; it is a di¬rection for your conduct. In the Lord, the .Lord Jefus Chrift, Shall all the feed of Ifraelbe juflified, and in him jhall they glory.Let none fay that religion is a gloomy etuncomfortable ftate; I call upon you thisday to rejoice. Let none fay that religion isa mean and defpicable thing; I call upon1 you this day to glory : and have the divine, authority for both. You will difttoacur the1 bleffed Jefus, you will difparage his furpafs-ing excellency, if you do not confide in him,and make your boaft of him. Chrifi is Kingof heaven, Chrift is Judge of the world,Chrift is God over all. And of fuch a Sa¬viour ihail we not glory? Yes, verily* andin all circumftances, and on every occafion.Amidft your manifold infirmities,- gloryI - in Chrift. For, though he was crucified in! weaknefs, he hath all power in heaven andearth. And it is written before him, it isone of his immutable decrees. Sin Jhall hoii4 THE CROSS OF CHRIST,have dominion over you. Amidft your variousfailings, glory ia Chrift. For his righteouf-nefs covers all your imperfe&ions, his righ-teoufnefs lecures you from wrath and con¬demnation ; and, though deficient in your-felves, you are complete in him. Under thepreflure of tribulations, lift up your heads,and glory in the crofs : becaufe the Captain Jof your falvation, was made perfect throughfufferings. If you fuffer with him, you Ihallalfo reign with him, and the fufferings ofthis prefent time are not worthy to be com¬pared with the happinefs which Chrift hathpurchafed with his agonies, and will quicklybeftow on his people, w'hen death approach¬es, death that cuts off the fpirit of princes,and is terrible among the kings of the earth;do you ftill glory in the crofs. Adheringto this banner, you may boldly and triumph¬antly fay, 0 death, inhere is thy fling! 0 grave, ’inhere is thy victory ? When that great tre¬mendous day fhall come, which puts an endto time and terreftrial things; when that"awful, that majeftic, voice is heard, whichcommands all the race of Adam to appearat the bar; then, mv dear brethren in Chrift,then alio fhall you glory in the-crofs. Whenothers, in an agony of terror, c^.11 upon rocksto fall on them and mountains to overwhelmthem ; this fhall be your fedate appeal; ra¬ther, this fhall be your heroic challenge: .Who JJjall lay any thing to the charge of God'select? it is Gcd that juflificih / who is be thatTHE CHRISTIAN'S GLORY. 15condemneth ? it is Cbrijl that died. Then (hallyou enter the harbour of eternal reft; notlike a fhip-wrecked mariner, cleaving tofbme broken plank, and hardly efcaping theraging waves ; but like fome (lately veflel,with all her fails expanded, and riding be¬fore a profperous gale.3. Let me caution the felf-righteous; thofewho more frequently think of their own pietythan of thrift's obedience ; are more apt tocry out, with the Pharifee, I am no extortion¬er ; no adulterer; than to confefs with thePublican, God be merciful to me a /inner*What ihall I fay to thefe perfons ? Let menot be thought cenforious, when my onlyaim is to be faithful. Beware, I befeechyou, left you build for eternity, not on arock, but on the fund. However you mayappear in your own fight before the adora-hie Majefty of the everlafting God, beforethe co ifumate perfe&ion of his holy law,you are lefs than nothing, you are worCethan nbthing : you are indeed ; you are de¬ficiency and iin. Renounce, therefore, re¬nounce all dependence on felf. Truft nologger in a refuge of lies; lell all your ad¬mired attainments, at the day of final retri-I bution be like draw, and hay, and flubble,tin Nebuchadnezzar’s burning fiery furnace.Imitate the bieffed penman of my text. Arej yob biamelefs in your external carriage ? fo1 was he. Are you cxamplary in many points?fo was die. Yet all this righteoufaefs he ac-i6 THE CROSS OE CHRIST,cour-ed dung, for the excellency of the knowledgeof Chrijl fcjus his Lord. Be this your pat¬tern. Write emptinefs upon your own du¬ties, emptinefs upon your own works •, andyou fiiall be filled with all the fulnefs of Godyour Saviour. Every other caufe of glory¬ing, will be like the morning cloud, or theearly dew, which palfeth away;'but thiscaufe of glorying will ft and fajl for evermore,as the moon, and as the faithful witnefs inheaven.Can I conclude, without adding a wordof admonition to the wicked; thofe, I mean,who are enemies to the crofs of Chrifi:; whomind earthly things, but neither hunger northirft after righteoufnefs. My foul remem¬bers the wormwood and the gall of fuch aRate, and cannot but tenderly pity thefe un¬happy people. Alas! my friends, what haveyou to glory in ? The devil and his angelsexpefl: ere long to gl^ry in your deftru&ion.Tiiofe malignant fiends are eyeing you astheir prey, and are impatient to begin yourtorment. Great, inexpreffibly great is yourdanger: the Lord Almighty open your eyesto diicern it. Neverthelefs, your cafe is notdefperate. You may yet be delivered, as abird out of the fnare of the fowler. Look un¬to the crucified Jefus. Why does h£ hangon that bloody tree? Why are his handspierced with iron ? why is his body rackedwith pain ?—Why is his heart torn with an-guifh ?—It is for you, Tinners, for you.THE CHRISTIAN’S GLORY. r7That blood is poured out, to cleafe you fromguilt; thole wounds are fuftained, to healyour confciences; that anguilh is enduredto obtain reft for your fouls. In that mang¬led body dwells all the fulinefs of the Godhead.Great, beyond imagination great is the me¬rit of thofe fulferings. Why then, O ! whywiR you die ? Why will you perilh for everwho have an ali-fufficlent propitiation in the\ crofs of Chrift ? Fly to this fanfluary : fly,before it be too late : fly without a moment’sdelay. It is an inviolable fanfluary. Noneever periihed that fled by faith to the com-paffionate, the divinely compaflionate Re¬deemer, his death fhall be a full fatisfaflionfor your iniquities. A fenfe of his immenfe-ly rich goodnefs (hall win your, affeflions;lhall incline (what all the threatenings ofdamnation could never efrefl) fhall fmooth( your path, and expiate your progress, tothe regions of immortal honour and joy.-Having now, with great plainnefs of fpeech,addrdfed my brethren in the miniftry, hav¬ing exhorted believers, cautioned the felf-righteous, and warned the wicked; let mecommend the whole to your ferious recollec-leflion, and to God’s gracious benedi&ion.And, O Lord moft holy! O God moft migh-Ity! O holy and merciful Saviour: by thineagony and bloody fweat, by thy crofc andpaflion, let not the word now fpoken be in. ain in the Lord! Amen, and Amen.FINIS.THE LASTS E R M O NOF THEREVEREND JAMES HERVEY, D. D.Re&or of Weflon-Favdl, in Northanuonfrure.CONTAINING,A WALK TO THE BURYING PLACE.WITHObfervations on the Death of a Wicked Pe'rfon.DfiUT xxix. 19. 0 that' they were wife to eonfider theirhtter end.INSTRUCTIVE LESSONS.OH that they were wife, faid the infpiredwriter, it was his laft wilh for his dearpsople y he breathed it out, and gave up theghoft. But what is wifdom ; it confihs notin refined fpeculations, accurate refearchesinto nature, or an univerfal acquaintancewith hiftory. The divine Law-giver fettlesthis important point in his next afpiration jO that they underflood this! that they hadright apprehenfions of their fpiritual intereft,and eternal concerns! that they had eyes todifcern, and inclinations to pujfue the thingsthat belong to their peace?—But, how Ihall. they attain.this valuable knowledge; I fentthem not to run over all the volumes of li¬terature, they may much more cxpeditioufiyacquire this Icience of life, by confideringA Walk to the Burying Place. 19their latter end. This fpark of heaven is of¬ten loll under the glitter of pompous erudi¬tion, but fhines dearly in the gloomy man-lions of the tomb; drowned in the gentlewhifper, amidtt the noife of mortal affairs,but fpeaks diftinfUy in the retirements of fe-rious contemplation.—Behold how providen¬tially I am brought to the fchool of wifdom:The grave is the moll faithful mafter, andthefe inftances of mortality, the moll inftruc-tive leffons.—Cdme then, calm attention,and compofe my thoughts: come thou ce-leftial Spirit and enlighten my mind; thatI may fo eafily perufe thefe awful pages asto become wife unto faivatien.Examining the records of Mortality, Ifound the memorials of a promifeuous mul¬titude. They were huddled, at leaft thfcyrelied together, without any regard.to rankor feniority. None were ambitious of theuppermoU rooms, or chief feats, in the houfaof mourning. None entertained fond andeager expe&ation of being honourably greet¬ed in their darkfome cells. The man of yearsand experience reputed as an oracle in hisgeneration, was content to lie down at thefoot Of a babe. In this houfe appointed lorall living, the fetfvant was equally accomo¬dated, anti lodged in the fame llory with hkmafter. The poor indigent lay as foftly, andllept as foundly,' as the moll oppulent pro-feffor; ail the diftinction that ftibia fled wasa graiTV hillock, bound with ofiers $ or a fe-2o A Walk to the Burying Place,pulchral ftand ornamented Avith imagery*Why then, faid my working thoughts, Oh,why fhould we raife fucli a mighty itir aboutfuperiority and precedence, when the* nextremove will reduce us all to a hate of equalmeannefs f why fhould w-e exalt oerfeives,or debafe others, fince we muit all one daybe upon a common level, and blended toge¬ther in the fame undtftinguifhed dull? Ohthat this confideration might humble my own,and others pride; and fmk our imaginationsas low as our habitation will Ihortlv be.JAmong thefe confuted relicks of humani¬ty, there are without doubt, perfons of con¬trary interefts and contradifting fentiments,but death like an able days-man, has laid hishand on the contending parties, and broughtall their differences to an amicable conclu-ficn. Here enemies, fworn enemies, dwelltogether in unity. They drop every imbit-tered thought, and forget that they once werefoes. Perhaps, their crumbling bones mix,as they moulder, and thofe who, while theylived, ftood aloof in irreconcilable variance,here fall into mutual embraces, and evenincorporate with each other in the grave.Oh that we might learn from thefe friendlyaflies, net to perpetuate the memory of in-I aries; not to foment the fever of refentment,nor cherilh the turbulence of paflion ; thatthere may be as little animofity and difagree-“ ment in the land of the living, as there ishy the congregation of the dead!A Walk to the Burying Place. 21Here the man of bufmefs forgets all hisfavourite fchemes, and difcontinues the pur-fuit of gain. Here is a total Rand to the -circulation of merchandife, and the hurry oftrade. In thefe folitary receffes, as in thebuilding of Solomon’s temple, is heard nofound of a hammer and axe. The winding-fheet, and the coffin, are the utmoft boundof all earthly devices: Hitherto may they go,but no further. Here the fons of pleafuretake a final farewel of their dear delights.The wicked feem to lie here, like male¬factors in a deep and ftrong dungeon! refer-ved againft the day of trial.—Their depar¬ture was without peace. Clouds of horror•let lowring upon their clofmg eye-lids, moRladly foreboding the blacknefs of darknefsfor ever. When the laft Rcknefs feized theirframe, and the inevitable change advanced:When they faw the fatal arrow fitting to thefirings, faw the deadly archer aiming attheir life; and felt the invenomed lhaft, faf-tened to their vitals Good God ! whatfearfulnefs came upon them! What horribledread overwhelmed them! How did theyRand fhuddering upon the tremenduous pre¬cipice ; excefiively afraid to die, yet utterlyunable to live! O what pale reviews, whatfparkling profpeCls confpire to augment theirforrdws ;—they look backward, and beholda moft melancholy fcene ! Sins unrepentedof, mercy flighted,' and the day of graceending. They look forward, and nothing22 A Walk to the Burying Place,pr^fents itfeif but the righteous Judge, thedreadful tribunal and a molt foleran rec¬koning. They roll around their affrighten-ed eyes on attending friends. And, if ac¬complices in debauchery, it fharpens theiranguilh, to confitier the further aggravationof their guilt, that they have not finned a-lone, but drawn others into the fame fnare.If religious acquaintance, it {trikes a freihflafli in their hearts, to think of never fee¬ing them more, but only at an u?'approach¬able diftance, feparated by the unpaffablegulph.At laft, perhaps they began to pray: I' hid¬ing no other way of poffible relief, they areconftrained to apply unto the Almighty.With trembling lips and faultering tongue,they cry unto that fovereign. Being, whokills and makes alive——But why, O whyhave they deferred their addreffes to heavenfa long! Why have they defpifed all hiscounfels, and ftood incorrigible under hisinceffant reproof? How often have theybeen forewarned of thefe terrors, and moftimportunately intreated, to turn to the Lord!—I wifti, they may find favour at this lafthour. But alas! who can tell whether af¬fronted Majefty will lend an ear to theircomplaint ? He may for ought any mortalsknow, laugh at their calamity, and mock whentheir fear comcih.Thus they lie groaning out the pp.or re¬mains of life, their limbs bathed in fweat,A Walk to the Burying Place.their heart ftruggling with convulfive throbs;pain infuperable, throbbing through everypulfe; an4 innumerable darts of agony tranf-fi.ting their confcience.If this be the end of the ungodly; Myfoul come not thou into their fecret, unto theiraflembly mine honour be not thou united! Ohhow awfully accomplilhed is that predi&iqnof inpired wifdom! Jin^ thoughfeemingly fweetin the comrnijfion; in the ijfuc bitcth like a fer-pent, andJlingeth like an adder.Happy diffolution, were this the periodof their woes. But alas, all their tribula¬tions, are only the beginning of forrows; onefmall drop of that cup of trembling, which ismingled for their future portion.^—No foon-er has the laft pang diflodged the reluctantfoul: but they are hurried into the prefenceof an injured angry God: not under theconducing care of beneficent angels, butexpofed to the infults of curfed fpirits wholately tempted theiji, now upbraiding them,and will for ever torment them.—Who. canconceive their confufion and diftrefs; whenthey ftand guilty and inexcufable, beforetheir incenfed Creator ? They are receivedwith frowns: The God yhat made them, hasno mercy on them : The Prince of Peace, theFountain of Felicity, rejefls them with ab¬horrence, he configns them over to chainsof darknefs, and receptacles of defpair, a-gainft the feverer doom, and more publicinfamy of the great day: Then all the phials24 A Walk to the Burying Piac.e.of wrath will be emptied upon thefe wretchedcreatures: The'law they have violated, andthe gofpel they have flighted, the power theyhave defied, and the goodnefs they have a-bufed: will all get themfelves honour in theirexamplary defiruction. Then God, the Codto whom vengeance belongeth, will drawthe arrow to the very head, and fet them asthe mark of his inexhorable difpleafure. -Refurre&ion, will be no privilege to them,but immortality itfelf their everiafling curfe—Would they not blefs the grave, that land! \•where all things are forgotten^ and wilh to Heeternally hid in its deepelt gloom j but theduft refufes to conceal their perfrns, or drawa vail over their pradices. They alfo mudawake, muft arife; mult appear at the bar,and meet the Judge, a Judge before whomthe pillars of heaven tremble, and the earthmelt away ; a Judge once long-fullering andvery compaflionate, but now unalterably de¬termined, to teach ftubbom offenders whatit is to provoke the Omnipotent Godhead,what it is to trample n the blood of hisSon, and offer defpite to all the graciousovertures of his holy Spirit, to whom beglory, honour, and immortal praife, now,and for evermore. Amen.FINISGLASGOW,Printed by J. and M. Robertfon, SaUroarke't, i$03-