JACKTHE GIANT-KILLER,BEINGTHE HISTORYOF4 ALL HIS WONDERFUL EXPLOITS AGAINSTTHE GIANTS.ANDBRITISH INTREPIDITY.>11# 1.eaa jjih-tviaio hhtOKisaYH0T8IH 3HT710T8MIA0A eiiojaxa juaaaaxow sin jja.gTXAlO HiITavcA.YTiariaaT/.i HgiTinaJACK THE GIANT KILLER.I Ik the reign bf the famous King Arthur, there1 lived near the Latiil’s-ehd of England, in tlie; county of Cornvvall, a Worthy farmer, who had an: only son, named Jack. Jack was a boy of a bold1 temper. He took pleasure in hearing or readingI stories of wizards, conjurers, giants, and fairies;and used to listen eagerly while his father talkedof the great deeds of the brave knights of KingtArthur’s Round fable.When Jack was sent to take care of the sheeps and oxen in the fields, he used to amuse himselfwith planning battles, sieges, and the means toconquer and surprise a foe1. He was above thecommon sports of children ; and hardly any onecould excel him at wrestling. If he met with hisequal in strength, his skill and address alwaysmade him the victor.In those days there lived on St Michael’s Mountof.Cornwall,, which rises out of the sea, at sonredistance from the mainland, a huge giant. Howas' eighteen feet high, and three yards ronnd ;and In’s fierce and savage looks Were the terror ofall Ids neighbours.He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on tbc very topof the mountain, and used to wade over to themainland in scare!) of his prey. V\hcn he camenear, the people left their liousCs ; and after he hadglutted his appetite upon their Cattle, he wouldthrow half a dozen oxen upon his hack, and 'tiethree times as many sheep and hogs round hiswaist, and so march back to his ovvn abode. The4giant had done this for many years, and the coast jof Cornwall was greatly hurt by his thefts, whenJack boldly resolved to destroy him.Jack therefore took a horn, a shovel, a pick-axe,and a dark lantern ; and early in a long winterevening he swam to the mount. There he fell towork at once; and before morning he had dug apit twenty-two feet deep, and almost as manybroad. He covered it at the top with sticks andstraw, and strewed some of the earth over them,to make them resemble solid ground. He thenput his horn to his mouth, and blew such a loudand long tantivy, that the giant awoke, and cametowards Jack, roaring in a voice like thunder,—“ You saucy villain, you shall pay dearly for break¬ing my rest,—I shall broil you for my breakfast.”He had scarcely spoken these words, when hecame advancing one step further; but then hetumbling headlong into the pit, and his fall shookthe very mountain.“ O ho ! Mr Giant,” said Jack, looking intothe pit, “ Have you found your way so soon tothe bottom? How is your appetite now ? Willnothing serve you for breakfast this cold morn¬ing but broiling poor Jack ?”The giant now tried to rise; but Jack struckhim a blow on the crown of the head with hispickaxe, which killed him at once. Jack thenmade haste back to rejoice his friends with thenews of the giant’s death.Now, when the Justices of Cornwall heard ofthis valiant action, they sent for Jack, and declaredthat he should always be called Jack the Giant- jikiller; and they also gave him a sword and belt, |upon which was written, in letters of gold,“ This is tlie valiant Cornish man,Who slew the giant Cormoran.”The news of Jack’s exploit was soon spreadover the western parts of England; and anothergiant, caUed Old Bkmderbore, vowed to have hisrevenge on Jack, if it should ever be his fortuneto get him into his power.This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midstof a lonely wood. Now, about four months afterthe death of Cormoran, as Jack was taking ajourney to Wales, he passed through this wood;and as he was very weary, he sat down to rest bythe side of a pleasant fountain, and there he fellinto a deep sleep.The giant came to the fountain for water justat this time, and found Jack there ; and as the lineson Jack’s belt showed who he was, the giant liftedhim up, and laid him gently upon his shoulder tocarry him to his castle. But as he passed throughthe thicket, the rustling of the leaves waked Jack;and he was sadly afraid when he found himself inthe clutches of Blunderbore. Yet this was no¬thing to his fright when he reached the castle, forthe floor was covered all over with the skulls andbones of men and women.The giant took him into a large room wherethere lay the hearts and limbs of persons that hadbeen lately killed ; and he told Jack, with a hor-|| rid grin, that men’s hearts, eaten with pepper andn vinegar, were his nicest food; and also, that hei should make a dainty meal on his heart. WhenI he said this, he locked Jack up in that room, whileI he went to fetch another giant who lived in the8l same wood, to enjoy a dinner of Jack’s flesh with|| him.While he was away, Jack heard dreadful shrieks,groans, and cries, from many parts of the castle ;i; and soon after he heard a mournful voice repeatj; these lines:6“Haite, valiant strange*', linste ntray,Lest you beeorac the g.iant’s jjrey.(Vn hfs return he’ll btli'ig another^ I 1 1 ^ V1 » ■ - k C* , «- i« WA k t . 1. ■ r. a ■ . t • 1 .10Still more savage than his brother—A horrid, cruel monster, with,Before he kills, will torture you.O, valiant stranger ! haste away,Or you’ll become these giants’ prey.”This warning was so shocking to poor Jack thathe was ready to go mad. He ran to the window,and saw the two giants coining along arm in arm.This window was right over the gates of the castle.“ Now," thought Jack, “either my death or free¬dom is at hand.’’Now, there were two strong cords in the room.Jack made a large noose, with a slip-knot at theends of both of these ; and as the giants werecoming through the iron gates, he threw the ropesover their heads. He then made the other endsfast to a beam in the ceiling, and pulled with allhis might, till he had almost strangled them. V\ henhe saw that they were both quite black in theface, and had not the least strength left, he drew hissword, and slid down the ropes ; he then killed thegiants, and thus saved himself from the cruel deaththey meant to put him to.Jack next took a great bunch of kej s from thepocket of Blunderbore, and went into the casthagain. He made a strict search through all th<rooms, and in them found three ladies tied up b}the hairof their heads, and almost starved to deathThey told them that their husbands had beerkilled by the giants, who had then comlemnetthem to be starved to death, because they woulcnot eit the flesh of their own dead husband.“ Ladies,” says Jack, “ 1 have put an end to themonster and his wicked brother; and I give youthis castle, and all the riches that it contains, tc7: mtike sotne amends for the dreadful pains ynu haves felt.” He then very politely gave them the keysi of the castle, and went farther on his journey toWales.As Jack had not taken any of the giant’s richesil foi‘ himself, and so had very little money of hisi -own, he thought it best to travel as fast as he( could. At length he lost his way; and wheni night came on he was. in a lonely valley, betweenI two lofty mountains, where he walked about fori some hours without seeing any dwelling-place;■so he thought himself very lucky at last in findinga large and handsome house.He went up to it boldly, and knocked loudlyI I at the gate ; when, to his great terror and surprise,there came forth a monstrous giant with two heads.He spoke to Jack very civilly, for he was a Welshgiant; and all the mischief he did was by privateand secret malice, under the show of friendshipand kindness. Jack told him that he was a tra¬veller who had lost his way; on which the hugemonster made him welcome, and led him into aroom, where there was a good bed to pass thenight in.Jack took off his clothes quickly, but, thoughhe was weary, he could not go to sleep. Soonafter this he heard the giant walking backward■ and ford ward in the next room, and saying toii| himself,| “ Th ou^'h here you lodge with me this night,You shall not see the morning light;J My club shall dash your braitas out quite.”“ Say you so ?” thought Jack. “ Are these yourtjtricks upon travellers' But l hope to prove asicunning as you are.”-^-Then getting out of bed>ihe gropped about the room ; and at last found a8large thick billet of wood. He laid it in his ownplace in the bed, and then hid himself in a darkdorner of the room.In the middle of the night the giant came withhis great club, and struck many heavy blows onthe bed, in the very place where Jack had laid thebillet; and then he went back to his own room,thinking he had broken all Jack’s bones.Early in the morning Jack put a bold face uponthe matter, and walked into the giant’s room tothank him for his lodging. The giant startledwhen he saw him, and began to stammer out—“ Oh! dear me ! is it you ? Pray how did yousleep last night ? Did you hear or see any thingin the dead of the night ?”“ Nothing worth speaking of,” said Jack care¬lessly ; “ a rat, I believe, gave me three or fourslaps with its tail, and disturbed me a little ; but Isoon went to sleep again.”The giant wondered more and more at this;yet he did not answer a word, but went to bringtwo great bowls of hasty-pudding for their break¬fast. Jack wanted to make the giant believe thathe could eat as much as himself; so he contrivedto button a leatheren bag inside his coat, andslipt the hasty-pudding into this bag, while heseemed to put into his mouth.When breakfast was over, he said to the giant,—“ Now I will show you a fine trick. I can cureall wounds with a touch. I could cut of my headin one minute, and the next put it sound again onmy shoulders. You shall see an example.” Hethen took hold of the knife, ripped up the leathernbag, and all the hasty-pudding tumbled out uponthe floor. “ Ods splutter bur nails,” cried theWelsh giant, who was ashamed to be outdone bysuch a little fellow as Jack, “ hur can do that9Iiirhurself; so he snatched up the knife, plunged itinto his own stomach, and in a moment droppeddown dead.As soon as Jack had thus tricked the Welshmonster, he went further on his journey ; and afew days after he met with King Arthur’s onlyson, who had got his father’s leave to travel intoWales, to deliver a beautiful lady from the powerof a wicked magician that held her in his en¬chantments. When Jack found that the youngprince had no servants with him, he beggedleave to attend him; and the prince at onceagreed to this, and gave Jack many thanks for hiskindness.'Hiis prince was a handsome, polite, and braveknight, and so good natured that he gave moneyto every body he met. At length he gave hislast penny to an old woman, and then turned toJack, and said, “ How’ are we to get food forourselves the rest of the journey ? “ Leave thatto me, sir,” said Jack ; “ 1 will provide for myprince.” Night came on now. and the prince be¬gan to grow uneasy at thinking where they shouldlodge. “Sir,” said Jack, “be of good heart.Two miles further there lives a great giant, whom1 know well; he has three heads, and will fightfive hundred men, and make them fly before him.”“ Alas!” replied the king’s son, “ we had bet¬ter never have been born than meet with suchyamonster.” “ My lord,” said Jack, “leave me tomanage him, and wait here in quite till I return.”The prince now staid behind, while Jack rodeon at lull speed ; and when he came to the gatesof the castle he gave a loud knock. The giant,with a voice like thunder, roared out, “ Who isthere?” and Jack made answer, and said, “Noone but your poor cousin Jack.”“ Well, said the giapt, “ Wliqt kqws, cousinJack,” “ Dear uncle,” said Jack, “ heavy news.”—“Pooh!” said the giant, ‘‘what heavy nevvgcan come to me? I am a giant with three heads,and can fight five hundred men, and make themfly before me.” “ Alas!” said Jack, “here isthe king’s* son coming with two thousand men tokill you, and to destroy the castle and all that youhave.“ Oh ! cousin Jack,” said the giant, “ this isheavy news indeed; but I have a large cellarunder ground, where I will hide inyself, and youshall lock, bolt, and bar me in, and keep the keystill the king’s son is gone.”Now when Jack had made the giant fast in thevault, he went back and fetched the prince tothe castle, and they both made themselves merrywith the wine and other dainties that were inthe house; so that night they rested very plea¬santly, while the poor giant Jay trembling andshaking with fear in the cellar under ground.Early ip the morning Jack gave the king’s songold and silver out of the giant’s treasure, and sethim threp miles forward on his journey.He then went back to let his uncle out of thehole, who asked Jack what he should give himas a reward for saving his castle. “ Why, gooduncle,” said Jack, “ 1 desire nothing but the oldepat and cap, with the old rusty sword and slip- f|pers, that are hanging at your bed’s head.” “ 1 liensaid the giant, “ you shall have them ; and praykeep them for my sake, for they are things ofgreat use. The coat will keep you invisible ; the jcap will give you knowledge; the sword cut through jgay thing; and the shoes are of vast swiftness tthese may be useful to you in all tim^s danger; jso take them with all my heart.” Jack gave manythanks to the giant, and then set off to the prince.When he had come up with the king's son,they soon arrived at the dwelling of the beautifullady who was under the power of a wicked magi¬cian. She received the prince very politely, andmade a noble feast for him ; and when it was end¬ed, she rose, and wiped her mouth with a finehandkerchief, said, “ My lord, you must submit tothe custom of my palace: to-morrowr morning Icommand you to tell me on whom l bestow' thishandkerchief, or lose your head.” She then wentout of the room.Tne young prince went to bed very mournful:but Jack put on his cap of knowledge, whichtold him that the lady wfas forced by the power> of the enchantment, to meet the wicked migicianevery night in the middle of the forest. Jacknow put on his coat of darkness and his shoes ofswiftness, and was there before her. When theIi lady came she gave the handkerchief to themagician. Jack, with his sword of sharpness, atone blow, cut off his head ; the enchantment wasi then ended in a moment, and the lady wasrestor-ij ed to her former virtue and goodness.' She was married to the prince on the next day,| and soon after went back with her royal husband( and a great company to the court of King Arthur,ii| where they were received with loud and joyful» welcomes; and this valiant hero, Jack, for themany great exploits he had done for the good ofhis country, was made one of the nights of thei Round luble.As Jack had been so lucky in all his adven-I tures, he resolved not to be idle for the future, but8 still do what services he could for the honour ofthe king and the nation. He therefore humblybegged his majesty to furnish him with a horse and12money, that he might travel in search of new andstrange exploits. “ For,” said he to the king,“ there are many giants yet living among themountains in the remote parts of ‘Vales, to thegreat terror and distress of your majesty’s subjects;therefore, if it please you, sire, to favour me inmy design, I will soon rid your kingdom of thesegiants and monsters in human shape.” Now, v lienthe king heard this, and began to think of thecruel deeds of these savage monsters, he gave Jackevery thing proper for such a journey. After this,Jack took leave of the king, the prince, and all theknights, and set off’ taking with him his cap ofknowledge, his sword of Sharpness, his shoes ofswiftness, and his invisible coat, the better to per¬form his great exploits.He went along over high hills and lofty moun¬tains, and on the third day he came to a large aridwide forest, through which his road lay. He hadhardly entered the forest, when on a sudden heheard very dreadful shrieks and cries. He forcedhis way through the trees, and saw a monstrousgiant carrying away a handsome knight from hisbeautful lad}'. The tears and cries melted theheart of honest Jack to pity : he got down fromhis horse, and, tying him to an oak tree, put on hisinvisible coat, under which he carried his sword ofsharpness.When he came up to the giant, he made manystrokes at him, but could not reach his body, onaccount of tlie great height of this frightful mon¬ster. But he wounded his thighs in many places;and, putting both hands to his sword, and aimingwith all his might, he cut off one of the giant’slegs, just below the garter; so that he tumbled tothe ground, and made not only the trees shake,but the earth itself trembled with theforceof his fell.13Then Jack set one foot upon his neck and criedout, “ Thou cruel and savage wretch, behold, [am come to give thee the just reward of all thycrimes.” And so, plunging his sword into thegiant’s body, the monster gave a loud groan, andyielded up bis life into the hands of the brave Jackthe Giant-killer ; while the noble knight and hislady were both joyful to see his sudden death andtheir own escape.The knight and his lady not only gave Jackhearty thanks for what he had done for them, butalso invited him to their house to refresh himself,and also to receive a reward for his goodness.“ No,” said Jack, “ l cannot be at ease till 1 findout this monster’s dwelling.”When the knight heard this he grew sad, andreplied, “ Noble stranger, it is too much to run asecond hazard. This monster lived in a den underyonder mountain, with a brother of his, more fierceand cruel than himself; therefora, if you should go,and perish in the attempt, it would be a heart¬breaking thing to both me and my lady : so let mepersuade you to go with us, and not think of anyfurther pursuit.”“Nay,” said Jack, “and even if their weretwenty, I would shed the last drop of my bloodbefore one of them should escape me. When Ihave done this task I will come and visit you.”So, when they had told him where to find themagain, he got on his horse, and went after the deadgiant’s brother.Jack had not rode a mile and a half before hecame in sight of the mouth of the cavern ; andnear the entrance of it he saw the other giant sittingon a huge block of fine timber, with a knotted ironclub in his hand, waiting for his brother: Hiseyes looked like flames of fire, his face was grim14and ugly, and Ids cheeks seemed like two flitchesof bacon ; the britles of his beard appeared to bethick rods of iron wire, and his long locks of hairhung down upon his broad shoulders like curlingsnakes.Jack got down from his horse, and turned himinto a thicket; then he put on his coat of dark¬ness, and, drawing nearer, said softly, “ O mon¬ster ! are you there? it will not be long before Ishall take you fast by the beard.”The giant all this while could not see him byreason of his invisible coat; so Jack came quiteclose to him, and struck a blow at his head withhis sword of sharpness ; but he missed his aim, andonly cut off his nose. He then roared like loudclaps of thunder. And though he rolled his glaringeyes round on ever/ side, he could not see whohad given him the blow ; yet he took up his ironclub, and began to lay about him like one who wasmad with pain and fury.“Nay,” said Jack, “if this be the case, 1 willkill you at once. ” So he slipped nimbly behindhim, and, jumping upon the block of timber as thegiant rose from it, stabbed him in the back, when,after a few howls, he dropped down dead.Jack' cut off his head, and sent it with the headof his brother, whom he had killed before in theforest, to King Arthur, by a waggon which he hiredfor that purpose, with an account of all his ex¬ploits. When Jack had thus killed these twomonsters, he went into their cave in search of theirtreasure. He passed through many turnings andwindings, which led him to a room paved withfreestone ; at the end of it was a boiling cauldron,and on the right hand stood a large table, wherethe giants used to dine.lie then came to a window that was secured15with iron bars, through which he saw a number ofwretched captives, who cried out wlipn they sawJack, “ Alas ! alas ! young man, are jou come tobe one among us in this horrid den ?”“ I hope,” said Jack, “ you will not stay here longbut pray tell me what is the meaning of your beinghere at all ?”“Alas!” said one poor old man, “ I will tellyou, s,-r. We arc persons that have been takenby the giants that hold this cave, and are kept tillthey choose to have a feast; then one of us is tobe killed, and cooked to their taste. It is not longsince they took three for the same purpose.”“Well,” said Jack, “ I have given them such adinner, that it will be long enough before theyrequire any more.” The captives were amazed athis words. “ You may believe me,” said Jack,“for I have killed them both with the edge of mysword, and have sent their large heads to the courtof King Arthur, as marks of my great success.”To show them that what he said was true, he un¬locked the gate, and set them all free. Then heled them to the great room, placed them roundthe table, and set before them to quarters of beef,with bread and wine, upon which they feasted tillthey were satisfied.When supper was over, they searched the giant’scoffers, and Jack shared the store in them amongthe captives. The next morning they set off totheir own homes, and Jack to the knight’s house,whom he had left with his lady not long before.It vias just at the time of sunrise that Jackmounted his horse to proceed on his journey.He arrived at the knight's house, where he wasreceived with the greatest joy by the thankfulknight and his lady; who, in honour of Jack’s ex-16ploits, gave a grand feast, to which all the noblesand gentry were invited.When the company were assembled, the knightdeclared to them the great actions of Jack, andgave him, as a mark of respect, a fine ring, onwhich was engraved the picture of the giant drag¬ging the knight and the lady by the hair, with thismotto round it:“ Behold in dire distress were we,Under a giant’s fierce command,But gain’d our lives and libertyFrom valiant Jack’s victorious hand.”Amongst the guest then present were five agedgentlemen, who were fathers of some of these cap¬tives who had been freed by Jack from the dun¬geon of the giant. As soon as they heard thathe was the person who had done such wonders,they pressed round him with tears of joy, to re¬turn him thanks for the happiness lie had causedthem.After this the bond went round, and every onedrank to the health, prosperity, and long life ofthe gallant hero. Mirth increased, and the hallwas filled with peals of laughter and joyful cries.But on a sudden a herald, pale and breathlesswith haste and terror, rushed into the midst ofthe company, and told them that Thundel, a sa¬vage giant with two heads, had heard of the deathof his two kinsmen, and was come to take revengeon Jack, and that he was now within a mile of thehouse, the people all flying before him like chaffbefore the wind.At this news, the very boldest of the gueststrembled; but Jack drew his sword, and said, “Lethim come,—1 have a rod for him also. Pray,gentlemen and ladies, do me the favour to walk intothe garden, and you shall soon behold the giant’sdefeat and death.” To this they all agreed, andheartily wished him success in his dangerousattempt.The knight’s house stood in the middle of amoat, thirty feet deep and twenty wide, over whichlay a drawbridge. Jack set men to work to cutthe bridge on both sides, almost to the middle;and then dressed himself in his coat of darkness,and went against the giant with his sword of sharp¬ness. As soon as he came close to him, though(the giant could not see him for his invisible coat,yet he found some danger was near which madehim cry out,“ Fa, fe, fi, fo, fum,I smell the blood of an English man;Let him be alive, or let him be dead,I’ll grind his bones to make me bread.”“ Say you so, my friend ?” said Jack, “ you area monstrous miller indeed.” “ Art thou,” criedthe giant, “the villain who killed my kinsmen?then I will tear thee with my teeth, and grindthy bones to powder.” “ You must catch mefirst,” said Jack ; and, throwing off his coat ofdarkness, and putting on his shoes of swiftness, hebegan to run ; the giant following him like a walk¬ing castle, making the ground shake at every step.Jack led him round and round the walls of thehouse, that the company might see the monster;and, to finish the work, Jack ran over the draw¬bridge, the giant going alter him with his club.But when the giant came to the middle, wherethe bridge had been cut on both sides, the great1 weight of his body made it break, and he tumbledinto the water, and rolled about like a large whale.Jack now stood by the side of the moat, and18laughed and jeered at him, saying, “ I think youtold me you would grind my bones to powder,—when will you begin?”The giant foamed at both his horrid mouthswith fury, and plunged from side to side of themoat ; but he could not get out to have revengeupon his little foe.A t last Jack ordered a cart-rope to be broughtto him. He then threw it over his two heads,and, by the help of a team of horses, dragged himto the edge of the moat, when he cut of the mon¬ster’s heads, and, before he either ate or drank, hesent them both to the court of King Arthur. Hethen went back to the table with the rest of thecompany, where the remainder of the day wasspent in mirth and good cheer.After staying with the knight for some time,Jack grew weary of sucii an idle life, and set outagain in search of new adventures. He went tillhe came to the foot of a very high mountain. Herehe knocked at the door of a small and lonely house,and an old man, with a head as white as snow, lethim in.“Good father,” said Jack, can you lodge atraveller who has lost his way ?” “ Yes,” said thehermit, “ I can, if you will accept such fare as mypoor house affords.’’ Jack entered, and the oldman set before bim some bread and fruit for hissupper.When Jack had eaten as much as he chose, theberrhit said, “ My son, I know you are the fa¬mous conqueror of giants; now, on the top of thismountain is an enchanted castle, kept by a giantnamed Galligantus, who, by the help of a vilemagician, gets many knights into his castle, wherehe changes them into the shape of beasts. Aboveall, l lament the hard fate of a duke’s daughter,19wh(Mn they seized as she was walking in her fathersgarden, and brought hither through the air in achariot drown by two fiery dragons, and turned' her into the shape of a deer. Many knights havetried to destroy the enchantment, and deliver her,yet none have been able to do it, by reason of twofiery griffins, which guard the gates of the castle,and destroy all who come nigh. But as you, my! son, have an invisible coat, you may pass by themwithout being seen ; and on the gates of the castleyou will find engraved by what means the enchant-ment may be broken.”Jack promised that in the morning, at the riskof his life, he would break the enchantment; and,after a sound sleep, he rose early, put on his in¬visible coat, and got ready for the attempt.When he had climbed to the top of the mountain,he saw the two fiery dragons, but he passed be¬tween them without the least fear of danger; forthey could not see him, because of his invisiblecoat. On the castle-gate he found a goldentrumpet, under which were written these lines ;“ Whoever can this trumpet blowShall cause the giant’s overthrow.”As soon as Jack had read this, lie seized thei trumpet and blew a shrill blast, which made the5 gates fly open, and the very castle itself tremble.The giant and the conjurer now knew that their) wicked course was at an end, and they stood bit-Iting their thumbs and shaking with fear. Jack,with his sword of sharpness, soon killed the giant,and the magician was then carried away by a whirl¬wind; and every knight and beautiful lady, who.1 had been changed into birds and beasts, returned: i to their proper shapes. 1 he castle vanished away50like smock, and the head of the giant Galligantus,was then sent to King Arthur.L'he knights and ladies rested that night at theold man’s hermitage, and next day they set outfor the court. Jack then went up to the king,and gave his majesty an account of all his fiercebattles.Jack’s fame had now spread through the wholecountry, and, at the king’s desire, the duke gavehim his daughter in marriage, to the joy of allhis kingdom. After this, the king gave him alarge estate, on which he and his lady lived therest of their days in joy and contentment.BRITISH INTREPIDITY.The following incident, which took place at Calaisin April 1817, is translated from a French news¬paper.On the 17th, the wind blowing from N. N. E.with extreme violence, had rendered the sea fright¬ful, and all approach to the coast dangerous, whenabout eleven o’clock, a. m., the time of high water,there was seen a small French vessel (the Leonora,from L’Orient, of 72 tons, with seven men, boundfrom Nantes to Dunkirk, with a cargo of grain),beating up painfully against the fury of the waves.The captain, Huard, thinking no doubt that it21would be safer to attempt entering the port ofCalais then standing out to sea, determined on the| formerand although he had neither a pilot on! board nor any personal knowledge of the coast, he1 hazarded an effort to carry it into execution ; buti overpowered by the force of the winds, currents,i and the waves, he was driven on the v/orks to thei east of the port, where he stuck. The dmger soonI became eminent, and the wrecks thrown on shoreii announced the certain death of the seven unfor-i tunate mariners* Numerous witnesses of this sceneIt! of desolation lamented that they could offer no3i! assistance. At this moment there was seen advanc-j'l ing with force of oars, a pinnace-boat sent fromj:l the British yacht called the Royal Sovereign, whichr had carried to Dunkirk the Duke of Orleans some3 days before. This boat, commanded bv lieutenentf Charles Moore,who had underhimeightsailors fromi the yacht, advanced with intrepidity, in spite ofl:of the dangers with which it was surrounded.Captain Owen, the commander of the yacht, dis-il playing a zeal worthy of the greatest praise, stoodf|| upon the extremity of the pier, and cheered by his) gestures and his voice, the brave and intrepidi lieutenant and his eight sailors ; and although he] was incessantly covered with the waves that dashed! against the pier, he perseveringly maintained hisi painful and dangerous position for the purpose ofpointing out together with M. Sagot, the port-i captain, and some other French officers, the mea¬sures proper to be adopted, and of adding, if pos-4$afterliaving passedtinderhis boat, 1'edovered himselfand rose to the surface, where he was immediatetytaken up by the sailors, and replaced in the boat.The courage of this generous man was not slack¬ened by by the threatened death which he had somiraculously escaped; he lost not the presence ofmind which belongs to true intrepidity, and he re¬turned with heroic perseverance towards the per¬ishing individual, for whose safety he hazarded hisown. The difficulties of the situation increased—the French sailor, too much weakened, had lostcourage, but seeing the boat return to his assis¬tance, he unbound himself, and, endeavoured tomake an effort for his salvation, he percipitatedhimself into the sea, where he was seen to floatfor an instant, and then to sink for ever ! Allassistance had now become useless, and theEnglish boat retained to the port, where the gen¬erous men, who had given so noble an example oftheir rare intrepidity, received the testimonies ofthat satisfaction with which every spectator wasdeeply penetrated.aid vd uaioodo bnn ,ioiq adi'io /iimonxo odt ,:orpjor! iKuiodd'1 bfir • Violina 1:1 io -id bnu Jfl .aolt.'oilhodgab Jfid) aovtjw odt rfji-w baiavo. j yI)itn?aoon! -o rsill horuBlrdsm yfgniiovja-i.iq Oil ,1‘jiq odl Jenir.gBlb ‘jeoutuq ad) rol notijeoq siioibgftBD bns lulnuiq'-Jioq oil} tlogG? '.M dtiw lodjogof tuo gnrtuioq-Bain adt ,ei9'jffio donovl 'i-jifio utrios hnn ,niBiqco-soqli ,gnihbii to bnc ,botqo()B otl ot loqolq eoiusis sible, to the necessary means of assistance. UpI to this time the danger had been increasing onboard the wrecked vessel, and already had severalijl men lost their lives, when three were seen still to1 survive, and to implore assistance. Meanwhile,) the generous and intrepid lieutenant. Moore withl his eight seamen, neglected no effort. At lastI they reached within a little distance of the(i wreck, and by means of a rope, which they threwci out to the vessel, saved two of these unfortunatel| men. Not being able longer to keep their posi-Ition, the boat returned to the pier to land thesetwo, when Captain Wilkinson, the master of theEnglish packet, the Dart of Dover, generouslythrew himself into the boat, at the hazard of hislife, to assist in this manoeuvre. There remainedstill on the wreck another survivor, who had boundhimself to the mast with a ropee, that he mightnot be washed overboard. The desire crowningthis fine action by rescuing another victim fromthe waves inspired regrets into the courageouslieutenant and his crew. They returned to face adanger, the force of which they had alreadyi measured, and had nearly reached the boat, the!i gallant lieutenant standing up and directing therowers, when a wave, more impetuous than therest, broke over the pinnace, overthrew, and pre¬cipitated into the waters, this generous officer, whoinstantly disappeared. A feeling of consternationstruck with terror and regret the numerous spec¬tators of the scene.— 1 he lieutenant, however.24THE BANNER OF WAR.0j' Jliig },ooa alo r/ dOTf!l rr-jif r/ ytevtl lUilJ teol n-ynBehold the Britannia ! how stately and brave,She floats on the ambient tides !For empire design’d, o’er the turbulent wave !How trim and how gallant she rides !Yet love in a true Briton’s heart,With glory contends for a part;And the fair cheek of beauty with tears is impearl’dWhen the banner, the banner of war is unfurl'd.On the shore how alert, how intrepid the crew ;How firm at their sovereign’s command ;Or dauntless o’er ocean her foes to pursue,And die for the cause of our land.Yet one tear, ere the heroes' depart,One sigh shall be driven from the heart;Onekisson the cheek which sweet sorrows im pearl’dV\ hen the banner, the banner of war is unfurl'd.Now on to the conquest! the battle swells high,And fierce round the vessel it roars;Hark, the sons of Britannia, “ to victory,” cry,Anri victory sounds to our shores.Then peaceful again to their home,Shall the patriot warriors come;No more the fair cheek shall w ith tears be im¬pearl’d,But the banner of peace stand for ever unfurl’d.-oiq bfin .'woulmvo .SDsnnuj edt lovo oJoid ,i=£Jtn.[ „ -t j jiito guomuoii shit .‘■lov. 'i silt olni bolBlitpunoilnmaJanojIo gnilodt A .beieoqcp>.ib vliucisni-0‘jq- euoiomun odl Jatgon bnu T.iial diirtjiavowoii ,lnntt3fuail od ' —.enaoa’ set io aiolct