THE WHOLEPROCEEDINGS1or>JOCKEY AND MAGGY;IN FIVE PARTS.I. Jockey and Maggy’s Courtshpas they were coming from theMarket.II. The wonderful works of ourJohn; showing how he madeJanet like an Elshin-haft and gothis ain Maggy wi* bairn forby.III. The wonderful works of ourJohn made manifest before theMinister.IV. How’Jocky and his Motherwent away to see hh BastardChild.V. How Jockey had another child,and could not get it baptised un¬til he mounted the Stool; withan Account of his Mother’s deathand burial. Also, an elegantElegy on the same Occasion.Carefully Corrected and Revised by the Author.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE FLYING STATIONERS..xir-’lV/ :m:o.«- •to\'kr \e *' ■ v ].8THA^ • H l / Ili.-.M ' i V T. V.I;'T VAjU VI ! ^ ' ■ ■ '1 iM o . OJ 7 •! ! ' . ■ 1‘ I <;.l •' [ ..! .71)3',;rr I .M ? JOfl i «.vM?; . ? 'i'f ■ M . jtm.n l i?r1 • ■ > «’< j1 ! i j ; ■fift , I A.• .<iofc^D>0 - ol.* r J ' •’ •flT QiOlJ ; : : >'J ST )1 r *t; * t - / i . * .!: V) |.«• • koita'j i < .cr/.n ;jht - a : :iTHE WHOLEPROCEEDINGSOF,JOCKEY AND MAGGY;IN FIVE PARTS.I. Jockey and Maggy’s Courtshipas they were coming from theMarket.II. The wonderful works of ourJohn; showing how he madeJanet like an Elshin haft and gothi< ain Maggy wi’ bairn forby.III. The wonderful works of lourJohn made manifest before theMinister.1 IV. How Jocky and his Motherwent away to see his BastardChild.V. How' Jockey had another child,and conld not get it baptized u*-til he mounted the Stool ; withan Aecount of his Mother’s deathand burial. Also, an elegantElegy on the same Occasion.Carefully Corrected and Revised by the Author.1 //»GLASGOW sPRINTED FOR THE FLYING STATIONERS;J1839.2JOCKEY AND MAGGY’S COURTSHIP,As they were coming from the Marhet.PART. I.Jockey. Hey Magsy, wilt thou stay and tak kent foukharre wi’ye the night ?Maggy. Wiltu come awa’ then Johnnj ? I Tain wad behame or the kye come in ; our mickle Riggy is sic a rumb¬ling royte, she rins ay thro’ the byre, and sticks a’ ihe hitso’ couties ; my mither is na able to hand her to her ain stake.Jock. Hute, we’ll be haute in bra’ time woman, and howis a’ you: fouks at hame.Mag. Indeed I canna weel tell you man, our guidame isa’ gone wi’ the gut ; my mither is very frail, my father he’say wandering about widening amang the beasts.Jock. Hut Maggy, they tellme we’regawn to get a weddingof thae and Andrew Marrymouth, the Laird.’s gard ner.Mag, Na, na, he maun hae a brawer lass to be his wifethan the like o’ me ;'but auld Tammic Tailtrees wjs seek¬ing me: my father wad ha’ hacn me tak him, but mitherwadna let ; there was an odd debate about it. My guid-amc wad ha’ sticked my mither v/i’the grape, if my fatherhadna’ chanc’d to founder her wt’ the beetle.Jock. Hech, woman ! I think your father was a fool forfashing «i’him ; auld slavery duse, he wants neathing ofa cow but the elutes: your guidame tray tak him hersel;wn auld tot ering.stumps, the tane may fair the tither fu’well.Mag. Ach man 1 I wad hae taen thee or ony body to hanethem greed again : my father held my guidame’s nose, andmy guidame brake my mither’s thumb; the neighbourscame a’ rinning in, bat I had luck to baud my father’s handsiill yenee my guidame plotted him wi’ the broe that was tomake our brose.Jcck. Dear Maggy, I hae something to tell you, an yewadna he angry at it.Mag. O Johnny, there’s my hand I’se no be angry at it,be what it will.{Shakes hands for fear of an Outcast)Jock. Indeed Maggy, the fouc of your (own and the fouk ofour town sty, we are gawn to be married ; What say’st thou ?Afag. I wish we ne’er do war; () Johnny 1 I dream’d o’you lan syne, and 1 liket you ay after that.3/wk. O Maggy! Maggy! d >st thou mind since I esmeto your father’i bill, wi’ mither’s cow, ye keu she wadnnstand, and ye helped me to baud her; ay after that theysco.ned me that 1 wad be married on a-you *Mjg. It’s very true man, it’ll be an Odd thing an it be ;but ills no fa back at try door , I assure ye.Jock. Nor at mine, but my mither bad me kiss ye.Afajr. Indeed sail ye Johnny, thou’s no want twa kissesman, ane on every side o’ the mouth man,Jocfc. Ha ! ha 1 Maggy, I’ll hae a merry night o’ kissingyou shortly.Atag- Ay, but Johnny, ye man stay till that night come;ids best to keen the feast until the feast day.Jock. Dinna be augry, Maggy, my wife to be, but I haveheard my mither s lying in hi r dafling, that fouk soud aytry gin their hou'e will baud their plenishen.Mag. Ay, but Johnny, a wife is as thing and a houseanither, a man that’s amind to marry a woman he’ll no makher a whore.Jock. It’s a’ true Maggy, but fouks may do it ycnce or theybe married; and no hae ony ill in their minds.Mug. Aha Johnny rnony a ane has been beguil’d wi’yence,and do it yence ye may do it ay ; what, and we get abastard, and hae to suffer for the foul ait of fornication.Jock. Ay but my mither says, if dinn i get thee wi’ bairn,I' II not get thee ; so it’s the surest way of wooing.Mag. Indeed Johnny, I like you better than ony la 1 I see,and l sail marry you yence my father’s muck, were out; mymilher douna work at the midden.Jock. A Vlaggy, Maggy, I ftar you beguile me, then mymither w ill murder ne for being so silly.Mag. My jo Jockey, tell your mi her to provide a'thiogsfor the bridal, ami I shall marry you in three oucks afterthis ; but we maun gie in siller to the Presenter, a groat anda drink to the Bellman, and then the kirk wa’s maun hearo’t three Sundays or it comeJock. But Maggy, l’,n no to mak a blin bargain wi’ younor ony body ; 1 maun ken o’ your things, and ye sail keno’ mine.Mag. I ken well what I was to get, and gin my mithar likethe bargain well, she’ll make it better ; hut an’ my fatherbe angry at the match, 1 dare not meet you to be married.Jock. I see na how he can be angry ; I wat well I’m a’gay sturdy fellow, when 1 laid on a bow and five packs o4beer on the Laird’s Bawsey, and he’s as bilshy a beast as inthe barony.Mag. Ay, but my wither is ay angry at ony body thaterens theniselTcs to me, an it binna them she likes ; indeedshe bade me tak ony body if it were na auld tot’ring Tom¬mie; for his beard is a brown wi* sucking tobacco; andslavers a’ the breast o’ his jacket.Jock. O Maggy! tak me, and I’ll tell you what I hae;first, my father left me when he died, fifty merks, twa sacks,twa pair o’ funks ; the hens, and the gawn gear were to bedivided between me and my mither ; and if she died first,a’ her gear was to come in among mine; and if I died beforeher, a’ my gear was to come back to her again, and her tomarry anither man if she could get hifla. But since it’shappened sae, she istogieme Brucky and the black Mare,the hafe o’ the cogs, three spOons, four pair o’blankets andcan’as ; she’s to big twa beys to her ain gable to be a dAcll-ing house to me and my wife; and I’m to get the wee byreat the end o’ the ra’ to baud my cow and twa couties: thehafe o’ the barn and a bed o’ the kailyard as long as she lives,and when she dies I am to pay the earding o’ her honestly ;and a’ the o’tr con e is to be my ain. And by that time I’llbe as rich as e’er my father was before me.Mag. Truly Johnny, I'se no say pneikle to the contrair,but gin ye hae a mind to take me wi’ what I hae, tell meeither now or never, for i se be married or lang gae.Jock. I wat well I’m courting in earnest, tell me what youhae, and we’ll say no more but marry ithcr.Mag. I’se tell you a’ I ken o’, whate’er my guidame giesye’s get it.Jo k. That’s right, I want nae mare, it’s an uuco thing tomarry a naked woman, and get nathing but twa bear legs.iJag. O John, v e’re in the right o’t, for mony a ane isbeguiled and gets neathing, but my father is to gie me fortypounds Scots, that night I am married, a lade o’ meal,furlet o’ groats; auld Crummie is mine since she was a cafeand now she has astirk will tak ihe bill e’er Beltan ? yet Ihae twa stane o’ good lint and tlree pockfu’s o’ tow, a goodca’f bed, twa bowsters and three cods, uith three pair o’blankets, and a covering ; forby twa pair to spin, but mymither widna gie me creesh to them, and ye ken the butteris dear now.Jock. Then farewell the night Maggy ? the best o’ friendsmaun part, and sae maun thy twa legs yet.&Mag. I wish you well Johnny, but say nac mair till webe married. And then, lad !Home gaed Maggy and Idled her Mither.Maggy. O Mither 1 I hae something to tell ye, but yemanna tell my father.Mither. Dear Magsy, ! and what is it ?Mug. Deed mither, I’m gawn to be married, gin the muckwere out.Mth. Dear Maggy, and wha is thou gawn to get ? it’s noauld bubly Tammie.Mag. Na, na, he’s a bra’ young man, and has mare gierthan ilka body kens o’ ; guess, and I’ll tell you . it’s JohnnyBell, and his mither sent him to the market just to court me.Mith. Deed Maggy, ye’ll no be ill yoket wi’ him; he’s agay well gawn fellow, right sprush, amaist like an ill-far’dgentleman. Hey guidman, do ye hear that our Maggy isgawn to be married gin the muck were out.Father. Na, na, I’ll no allow that until the peets becuffen and hurl’d.Mag. Father, it’s dangerous to delay the like o’that, I likehim, and he likes me; it’s best to strike the iron when it’s hot.Fath. And wha is she gawn to get gtudwife.Mith. And wha do you think guidman.Path A what wat I herie ? an she please hersel and you,I’m pleased already.Mith. Indeed s'.e’s gawn to get Johnny Bell, as clever ayoung fellow as in a’ the barony where he bides.Fath. A well, a well herie, she’s your’s as well as mine,gie her to wha you please.Mith. A well Maggy, I’se hae a’ things ready, and I’llhae thee married or this Month be done.Mag. Thanks to ye cnither, mony a good turn ye done me,and this will be the best 1 think.Hame gaed Jickey to his Mither Crying.Jockey. Mitheu! Mither! I made it out, her mouth iss teeter than milk, my heart plays a whilue whaltie, when Ikiss her.Mith. Fair fa thee, my son Johnny, thou’s gotten thegate o’t at last: and when is thou gawn to he married ?Jock. When I like mither, but get masons ihe morn, tobig my house, for I’ll hae a’ my things in right good order.Mith. Thou’s want for naething, my bairn, but pusht for¬ward as fast as ye can.6The wooing being o’er, and the day being set. Jockey’smither killed the black buil horned veal ewe that lost her1 iinb thelast year, three hi ns and a gnle fitted cock, to preventt! e nples, five pecks o’ main masVitin the meikle kirn, apint o’ tryke to mak it thicker and sweeter and mumer torthe month : five pints o’ whiskey wheiein was g irlie andspice, for raising o’ the wind and clearing o’ their water ;the friends and good neighbours wenta’ wi’John tothekirk,where Maggy chanc’d to meet him, and was married by theminister ; thetwa companies joined together and came homein a croud, every change house they chanct d to pass byprovidence stopt their proceeding, with full stoups, bottlesand glasses, driokingtheirhealths, wishingthem much joy, tengirls and a boy ; Jockey seeing so many wishing well bishealth, coupt up what he got to augment his health and garhim live lang, which afterwards coupt up him, and proveddetrimental to the same.So home they came to the dinner, where his mither pre-sei.cjtlt them a piping hot haggies, made of the crish ofthe blacK buil hom’d ewe, boiled in the meikle bag, mix’dw ith hear meal, onions, spice and mint; this haggies beinssupt warm, the foaming swats and epice in the liquor setJohnny’s belly abizing Use a working fat, and he playingbet fit to the fidltr, was suddenly seized with a hocking andrebounding, gave his dinner such a backward ca’, that belost a’ but the girt hits, scythed through I is teeth : hismither cried to spence him, and bed him wi’ the bride; hisbree'hS being filed, they ivath’d baiih his hips, laid him inhis bed, pale and ghostly was his face, and closed were bothhis ten Ah! cries his mither, a dismal d; y indeed, hisbrithal and his burial may I aUh he on ae day. Some cur-twater in his face, and jag’d him wi’a needle, till le beganto rome himself up and rap out broken words. Wither,mither, whar am 1 noev ? Where ate you now my bairn ?says his mither, yejre bebet, and 1 11 filing the bride to you.Bebet, and is my brithal done else ? Ay. said she here'sthe bride to lie dow n wi’ you- Na, na, said be, i’ll no lyewith that unco woman indeed, if it binna heads and throws,the way I lie with my mither? O fie dinna affront your-sel. The bride fa’s a crying, O mither ! mither! was this1 the way my father guided you the first night ? Na, na, thyfather was a man of manners and better mettle ? poor tiling,Meg, tliou’st call’d thy hogs to a bonny market. A bonnymarket says Ids milher, a shame fa' you and her baith lie’srwordy o’ her tho’ she were betler than what she is, noever will be. Hii triends and her (friends being in a mixcmultitude, some took his part, and some took her’s; therea battle began in the clap of a hand, being a very fiercetumuft, which ended in blood; they struck so hard withstones, sticks, beetles and barrow tiam* ; pigs, pots, stoops,trunchcrs were Hying like bombs and granads.The crook, bowls and tongs were a 1 employed as weaponsof war; tilldotvn came the bed with a great mu’ of peets.So this dioturoet their treading.PART IT.*The wonderful Works of our John, ■i r.Now, though all the ceremonies of Jockey and Maggy’swedding were ended, when they were fairly bedded before awheen ratling unruly witnesses, v.ha dang down the bedaboon them ; the battle still increased, and John’s worksturned ont to be very wonderful: for he made Janet, thatwas his mither’s lass the last year, grow like an elshtn haft,and got hisain Maggy wi’ bairn forhy.The fiamshetighs were very great, until nul l uncle Rab-by came in to red them, and a sturdy auld fallow he was,stood stievely wi’ a stiff'rumple , and by strength of his armsrave them sundry, flinging the ane east and the itner west,until they stood round about like as many breathless for-f mghten rocks, aud no anc durst sieer anither for him.Jockey’s mither was driven o er a kist, and bragget a herhips on a heckle ; up she gat, and tinning to fell Maggy’stmther wi’ the ladle, swearing she was the mither of a’ themi.-c icf that happened ; uncle Rabhy ran in between them,he ha’ing a great lang nose like a trumpet, she racklesslycame o er his lobster neb a drive vri the ladle, until theblood sprang out and ran down hts auld grey beard, andhang like snuff hubbies at it : O ! then he gaed wode, andlooked as waeful like, as he had been a Toplowrie corn’d fre*worrying lambs, wi’ his bloody’mouth. Wi’ that he gets anauhl flail, and rives away the supple, then drives them a’ tothe back o’ the door, but yet nane wan out; then wi’ cMt-ten and chappen,down come the clay hillenand the hen baukwi Kob Reid the fiddler, who crept up aside the hens lor thopreservation of his fiddle.Ben comes the bride, when she got on her coat, clappetHobby’s shoulder and bade him spare their lives for there isblood enough shed in ae night, quoth she, and that n y beardcan witness quoth he. So they all came in obediimce to un-a.8cV Rabby, for his supple mgde their pows bai'th saft and sairthat night; hat daft Maggie Sitnson sat by th« fire and picked ;;bones a’ the time o’ the battle : Indeed, quoth she, I thinkyou’re a fools but mysel; for I came here to get a good sup¬per, and ither fbuk has gotten their skin well paid.By thi, time up gcit John the bridegroom, that was Jockeybefore he was married, but could nae get his breeks ; yet wi’a horse-nail he tacked his sark tail between his legs, thatnane might see what every body should hide, and rambling hecries, settle ye, or I’ll gar my uncle settle ye, and saften yourheads wi my auld supple.Poor Rob Reid the fiddler took a sudden blast : some saidhe was maw turn'd wi' the fa’: for he bocked up a' the bar-.oy, and then gar’d the ale go like a rainbow frae him, asbrown as wort brose.The hurly burly being ended, and naething but fair wordsand shaking o’ hands, which was a sure sign of an agreement,they began to cou’ their eutted lugs, and wash their sairs, a’but Jockey's mither, who cries out, a black end on a’ youand your wedding baith ; for I hae gotten an hundred holesdung in my arse wi’ the heckle teeth.Jockey answers, a e’en hand ye wi’ them then mither,ye will e’en be the better sair d.Up get uncle Rabby, aud auld Sandy the souter of Siggy-hole, to put every thing in ciders they prapet up the bed vvi’a rakeand rippling kame, the bearers being broken they madea solid bottom of peets, laid on the cauf bed and boweters,where Jockey and Maggy was beddet the second time.Jockey, not being used to lie wi a naked woman, exceptheads and thraws wi’ his mither, got his’twa hands about thebride’s neck, and his houghs out o’er her hurdits, saying, Ine’er kist wife nor lass naked before, and for fainness I’ll biteyou, I’ll bite you, &c. Naithihg mair remarkable till abouthalf a year and four oucks thereafter, in comes MarionjMushet rinning barefoot and bareleggit, wi’bleart een andwatery cheeks, cursing and banning, greeting; and flyting.Marion enters, crying, and whar’s John?His mother answers. Indeed he’s out in the yard powingkill runts.Marion. A black end on him and runts baith, for he’sruin’d me and my bairn.Milk. Ruin’d^ou, it canna be ; be never did you ill, norsaid you ill, be night or be day, what gars you say that ?Alar. O woman, our Jenny is a’ rowing like a pack ofwoo, indeed she’s wi’quit isbairn and your Johnis the father o’t.9M'uh. Our John the father o’t! baud, there’s enough saidlying lown ! I trow our John was ne’er guilty o’ sic a sinfu’action ; daft woman ! I trow it’ll be but wind that hoves upthe lassy’s weam ; she’ll hae dt un’ken some drink, like rawsowens or rotten milk that makes her sae.Mar. A wae be to him and hi< actions baith, he’s the fathero’t, fornicator dog that he is. he’s ruin’d me and my bairn ;I bore htr and brought her up honestly, till she come tillyou ; herfath r died ana left me wi’ four o’ themjthere warnaane o’ them cou’d pit on anither’s claes, or tak a louse affither.Milh. I bid you baud your tongue, and no even your by-start to my bairn, for he’ll ne’er tak wi’t ; he, poor sillylad, he wad ne’er look at a lass, he’s to lay her down KyMaggy. Cryin o’ John, and lets ratify’t wi’ the auld rud-ouch. Aye, ye’re no blate for saying sae.Mur. Be angry, or he well pleased, I’ll say in a’ yourfaces and I’ll ca’ you befoi e your b tiers about it or lang gae.John enters. And what wat ye now, isourbroseready yet.Milh. Ay brose, black brose indeed for thee, my barin,here MarionMudhetsayingye haegottenhcrdochur wi’bairn.Jock. Me Mither ? I ne’er lay in a bed wi’ h r dochter a’my days ; it’ll be the young lairds, for I saw him kiss herat the lammas fair, and let glam at her nons nse.Mi h. Ay, ay my man Johnny, that’s the "ay she hasgotten her belly fu’ o’ biirns; its no you nor the like o you,poor innocent lad, that gets bystart weans ; a wheen filthylouns every ane loups on anither, and giesyou the wite of a’.Mar. You may say what you like about it, (it’s easy toca’ a court whar nae body’s to say again) but I’ll tell you a’ 1ken about it, and th.it is what she teld me, and you goodwife tell me some o't yoursel: and gin ye badna brought inMaggy wi’ her muckle tocher atween the twa, your Jockieand my Jennie had a been m in and wife the day.Jock. | uai well that’s true.Mit'i. Ye filthy dog at ye are, are ye gawn to confess wi’a bystart, and it no yours, dinna I ken as well as ye dowha’s aught it ?Jock. Ay but mither, we may a’ deny as we will about it,but I doubt it comes to my door at last.Mitk. Ye sil!y sumnh and senseless fellow, had ye beennuckle deep i’ the dirty drab, ye might a said sae, but yetell’u ms lang syne that ye could na’ lo’e her, she was saelazy and loun like ; besides her crooked fit and bow’d legs.Jock. Ay but mithcr, do|you mind since ye sent me to gie10her the parting kiss, at the bkick hol$ o’ the peet stack : sherave the bottom frae my bre ks, and wad gar me do’t ? I’msure mither, I cou’d ne’er get her wi’ bairn and my breeks or«A:ilk. Na, na,. poor simple silly lad, the wean's no your’s,i k ane loops on anit' et. and you’ll get the wyte of a’ thebystarts round about.Up gets Maggay wi’ a roar, and rives her hair, claws herback, belly, and baith her sides: the weed and gut gaesthrough my flesh like lung needles, nails or elshin irons.Wae be to the day that e’er 1 saw his face, I had better huemarried a tinker, or followed the soger, as mony an honestman’s doi ehte has done, and liv’d a bet er life than I do.Up gets Jockey, and runs o’er the rigs for John Uogtr’swife, auld Katie the howdie, but or he wan hark, she paitcd wi’ Patrice through perfect spite, then lay twafold o’era stool in a swoon.Jack. A well, a well, sits, since my first born is e’endead, without seeing the light o’ the warld ; ye’s a’ getbread and cheese to the blyth-meat : the thing we shoo'd award on the banquet will sair the burial, and that will aybe some advantage ? Gin Maggay thou' die I muun e’entak Jenny ; the lane is as far a length as the tither ; Use befurmsht wi’ a wife between the t,wa.But Maggy grew better the next day and was able tomuck the byre; yet there gaed sic a tittle tattling tiro theton n, every auld wife teld anithei o't, and a' the light hippethizies that rins between towns at e’en, tugging at their towrocks, spread it round the kintry ; and every bodies mouthwas filled wi. Jockey and Jenney, and how Maggy had patt¬ed wi bairn.At last Mess John Hill heard of the horrid action andsends the elder cf that quarter and Clinkcm Bell the gravemaker, to summon Jockey and Jenny to the tession, and tosee how the stool of repentance wad set them; no soonerbad they entered the doer, but Maggy fa's a greeting andwringing her hands ; Jockey s milher fell a flyting. and hebimsel' a rubbing his lugs and riving his hair, saying, Ogin I were halftll higher, I sude he a soger or it be laog 1 ?ngie me a good flail or a corn fork, I rude kill Bn nob menenow, before I ; aed to face your flyting ministeis, and beset up like a wall s wonder, on their cock-stool or black-stool,and wha can bide the shame, whan every booty looks tothorn like a piece of auld canvass prickt about a body, fornothing, but what every body docs amaiat, or they he mar¬ried , as well as me ??/lilh My man Johnny, ye're no the first that has doneit, and ye'll no he the last; e'en mony o’ the ministers hasdone it themselves; hout ay, your lather and I did it monya time-Miig. Ay, ay, and that gars your son lo he so good o'tas he is ; the thing that is bred in the flesh is ill to put outo' the bane.Mih. Dait woman, what way could the world stand, iffoil's wadna make use o’ ither ; it s the thing that’s natural,bait ns getting, thcr, fore it s no to be scunneit at,d/ag. Ay, ay, but an they be for the like o’ that theyshould marry.yiith. But I think there’s little ill tho’ they try it yenceor twice or t! ey be marr ed ; its an unoo thing till a body tohe hound to a business, if they dinna ken whether tt ey’reable for it or no.d/ng. Ay, ay, that's your way o’ doing and hi-. But it’sno the way o’ irher honest fouk ; see what the minister will^ say to it.Muh. The minister is but a mortal man, and there is de¬fections in his members as well as mine.Mag. Ay, but fouk shculd ay strive to mortify their mem¬bers.Muh. And is that your whigry ? Will you or ony bodyehe, ni’your mortilying of your members, prevent what'sto come to pass ? I wish 1 saw the minister and his el¬ders ; but I'sc gae him scripture for a' he’s done yet : tellna me about the mortifying of members, gin he has gottena hysta t, let her and him feed it between them, an theypud gie it soup about ; but she maun keep it the first quar¬ter, and by ti at time the muckle black lady 'ill be cauft,we shall fell the caufe, and foster (he wean on the cow’smilk. That’s a better mense for a faut than a’ your morti¬fying o’ your members, and a’ yonr repenting stools ; a" he! n Papist rites and rotten ceremonies, fashing fouks wi’sack gowns and buttock males, ami I dinna ken what ; butbitie you yet, till 1 see the minister.PART III.The wonderful uyarhs of our Jihn, made manifest before 'heMinister, <£c.Now Jockey and his mither went into the little byre and helda private meeting,_mine present but auld bro,kie and th twabrutes, the hits o' couties.12M-hh. Ye silly dog, and be drown’d to you, how con'd yeconfess sae muckle to macslie-shaniet Marion, althoughshe be her mlther ?Jock. O inither! mither ! say nae mair about it, my ainwan has dung me dourly ; sadly have I suffered for that,and ye ken a’ the iniseay’s corn'd oer our Maggy, my mouth’sthe mother o’t, sae hand your tongue I tell you now.Milh. And tell me to hand my tongue ? Gin ye had haehauden your tongue and your tail, and ha’e done as I hidyou, ye hadna had sae muckle ado the day, daft silly dogit tu is.Jack. Mither, mither, gie’s nane of your mocks, normalice ; for tho’ I got the wean, ye hae as muckle the wyteo’t as I. Gae seek me out my three new sarks and Sunday'sshine, and I’se gae whar never man saw my face before,neither wood, water, nor wilderness sail baud me again.Jkith. My bra’ man Johnny, you maunna do that; stayat hame wi’ me, and set a stoutjheait to a stie brae, I'segae to the session wi’ you, gang when you like.Jock. A well mither. I sail do your bidding for ance yet,but when the minister flytes on me, answer ye him, tor Icanna speak well again.Midi. Say nae mair, I hae a pockfu’ o’ perfect petitionsto louse and put to him and his elders, and if tu maun gaeto their black stool, it’s no be thee thy lane sail sit.Jock. But mitlier, whether will I deny the doing o’t, or con¬fess the game, and was at the getting o't.JWit/i. Ay, ay, confess you did it, but say but ance, andthat on the t.'rms of marriage, the way that a’ our kintrybystarts are gotten.Now Jocky being three times summoned to the session,and did ne t appear, the session insist for a warrant from thejustice of the peace, which was readily granted, more for di¬version nor justice sake ; the warrant being given to JohnKing the constable, who went away with Clinkem Bell onjS'.iturday’s morning, and catched John just at his breakfast,hauls him awa’, ane at ilka oxter, like twa butcher’s c^ogshinging in a bull’s beard. His mither followed, driving himup wi’ good c ounsels.— My bra’ man, Johnny, hand up yourhead, dituia think shame, for a’your fa’t is but perfect hones¬ty, you he neither a thief, where, nor horse stealer.Then Maggy ran for uncle Babby, and uncle Rabby sentto Sandy the souter of Siggyhole ; the souter saddled hismair, and uncle Itahhy got all' at a gallop-on his gray povv-i ey, west rtie hags, and owre by White hill-sheugh, the13nearest, and was at Sir James the Justice’s lang e’er Johnwas brought into judgment.John enters before the justice with a red, red face, like awell pay’d arse, fa's down on his knees, saying; GuideenMr. Justice, bir James, and it please your honour, you man¬na put me in prison, for I m no malefactor, but a poor honestkintiyman, that was born in an ill planet, my mither says’t.i had the ill lurk of a misfertune to fa’ foul wi’ fornication,and got my mithtr s lass wi bairn the last year, and th -y’regaun to father t on me the year again.The justice smiling, answer’d. Indeed John I think it isbut very just and reasonable that ye be accountable thisyear for your last year’s labour.Jo.k. Ay, ay, sir, 1 have laboured very sair since my fatherdied, but our plough canna get ga’in for frost this four days.Jat. Ay, but John, that s no w hat I mean, it's the childye got last year you must be answerable for this.Jvck. A deed stir, there was twa o’ them, but there is aneo’ them dead.Ji.it. A well then John, you'll hae the more to give to theone that's alive.Joci O ! but stir its my ain wean that’s dead, the ane I gotwi’ my wife; I dinna ken whether the tither be mine or no.Juit Yours or no sir, when you told me you got it ; if yeshould get it wi’ a beggar w ife at the back of a dyke, what isthat to the purpose, when it is of your getting, you mustmaintain it ?J«i. O ! yes stir. I’m no refusing to gie’t meat and mealto maintain : ; but my mither winna let me to the black-stool.Jmt. Why not go to the black stool, when guilty of suchan action as desetves it? it you have any reasons why youshould not go, argument it in the session and clear yourselfif you can.John s mother enters,and addresses’herself to the servantlass, thinking she w as the justice’s lady.Indeed mistress madam, if ye were a kintry guidwife likemysel, I could tell a about it, but you that’s gentles, I cannause freedom wi’ you, cause I hae na Latin, but wae’s me, wethat’s poor fouk is born to many fealins and backward faus ;this lad is my son, and I’m his mother, he has had the foulfortune to get a by-tart bairn, no doubt but we hae been a’guilty o’ as muckle and ne’er a w ord about it a’. What sayye madam ?Oft’ goes the lass, saying, foul fa’ the wife, for I was ncjver guilty o’t.14Just. Well good wife, what is the reason but ye let yoursou (live satisfaction to the kiik.Mith. Deed stir, he s no denying the bairn, but he’ll noh i« the black stool.Just. Ay, bat I tell you them that gets a byst.irt gets theblack stool to the bargain, and as he is in my hands now, heniU't find caution that he will answer the session and beSubject to the law.Mith. Ony thing ye like, stir, but that shamefu stance theblack stool; here’s uncle Habhy, and auld Sandy the soutr,will be caution that we s face the session on Sunday ; thelad s wae enough he did it, but he cann.a hel|> it now, thewean s horn and by hand : guid night wi’ your honour slairdship, it’s the first time e'er X was before you.On Sabbath after sermon, the session met, John and hismother is called upon, he enters courageously, saying, Guid-een to you master minister, bellman and elders a', my mith*er and me is bnith here.Mess John Then let her in, come awa’ good wife, what'sthe i eason ye keep yourson so long back from answering thesession ? You see it is the thing you are obliged to do at Inst.Mith Deed stir, 1 thinks there needs na he nae tnair workabout it, I think when he’s gi’en the lazy hulk, the mtther0 i, baith meal and groats to maintain rt, ye needna fash him,he’s a dutrfu’ farther indeed, weel I wat, when he feeds hisbystart sae wecl.Mess John. Woman, are you a hearer of the gospel, thatye reject the dictates ot it? how comes ye to despise thediscipline of the church? is not offenders to be rebuked andchastised.Mith. Yes stir, a’ that is very true, but I hae been threeor four times throw the Bible and the New Testament, and1 never saw a repenting stool in it a’; then whar could thefirsi o’ them come frae ? The Apostles had mine o' them.But a daft history book tells me, that the first o’ them wasused about Home atnang the Papists, and ay when any o’them turned whigs, they were put on a four-neuked thing,like a yarn winnel-blads, and rave a their goal. sindry tillthey turned papists again, and then fer anger they put themon a bla k stare or stool, in the midst o’ the kirk, and thesack-gown about them, wi' the picture o’thedeil and salanon t ; sweet be wi’ us, we sudna speak o' the ill thief in thekirk, but it is a mercy the minister's here an he come ; butwhat was the original of your repenting stools. And whenthe Whigs chased away the Papist fouk out o’ the kmtry,I15il they left a wheen of their religious pictures and the stool of9j repentance was among* t the spoil, but ye »e no get my bairnat to set upon a thing as hich as a hen hawk, and ilka body!g glowiing at him-Mess John Woman. I told you formerly that any who(refuses submission to the government of the church, is liableto excommunication ; and that we are to put the law in exc-» cotton against adultry and fornication, or the sin thereof liesfl partly on cur heads.M.th As lor your sin ofadultiy, 1 hae naething ado’ wi t ji I ken my sou is a fornicator, and ye can neither mak himR better nor war than he is, there s nae man can keep a stan-|| ding in thtirain hand—foitune I mean; if it be a sin letI him confess’t and forsake it, and we’s pny the buttock-maleI and mak nae murkle about it.Mcs-s John. Good wife, yon need not think your son willpass so, more than others that has been before him, he mustactually come before tl e congregation three Sabt-aths, beforehe be absolved from the scandal, and get the benefit of anychurch | rivileges like an hones' man.Milk. Indeed, mess John, mv son will never set his hipsupon ’t ; if he maun come before you, I se gar him stand abit back fne’t and hear what ye hae to say about fornication,twa harmless free bodies passing their tryals to see what theycan oo, ye that’s \Vhi«s may mak enough o’t, but I thinknae muckle about it.Mi ss Jo/in. Woman ye may go home and see what ye haveto di ; ye hav e a ’’ery bad tongue ; it s not you we are to takean account ofiAith Ay, ay, ye that's mini ters and modest fouk may saysae, hut if my son had tane as good tent o his tail as 1 cando of my tongue, there had nae bei n sue muckle about it; awheen sill louns kens na what they were made for, or howto guide a thing whan they get it.Mess \ohn Pot her out, she s going to talk bandy..1 hh O ay, stir, I se gang out but I II hae my bairn wi' me.Mess John. We must first ask some questions at him, there• is no harm can come on him lufe.Mith. Kor as good company as you think yourselves, 1wad rather hae I im in anither p:ace.John's hep: in, and his mother is put out.Mess John. Well John, you must tell us whether this childwas gotten before ye was married, or since ; for I supposeby the time of the birth it was much about the same time.Joch Hout ay stir, It was gotten long or I was married.16I need na forget the getting, it was naesae easy to me.Mess John. How lang is it since ye was first acquaint ?JoJ Just whan she came to be my mither's Jass, 1 neversaw her but ance before, and gin I had never seen her, Ihad never kend her after sic a fashous fashion.Mess John. How lang was she serving with your mother?Jock. Just twa haillerts: i got her wi’ bairn about a yearafter she came, and it’s no a year yet since I was married.'bAe.t.s John. Dear John, there is a contradiction indeed, awoman cannot go two years with child.Jock. Deed stir, it was then the wean was first gotten.Messsje^n A John John, 1 find you out to be a sinfulliver, you and that woman has had carnal dealings for sometime ; it is ill keeping the cow out of the corn, if she oncegets the way of going to it; ye should actually a marriedthe poor woman, whan ye cohabited so long togetherJock. No stir, we didna cowhabit together, though she kistme, and 1 kist her, sometimes in the barn, and sometimes inthe byre ; nane kent o’t but my mother, and she wadna letme tak her, but sent me awa’ to court our Maggy.His mother cries through the hole of the door : ye sense¬less sumph is that a’ the thanks I get for counselling you todo weel: war name ye wad a been married on a loun likeleepit, lazy sumph, who lias neither wit nor wyles, no saemuch judgment as wyse the wind frae her tail, but lut itgang a ore fouks.Up gets the elders, crying, Fy, Fy, Duncan the bellman,drive that wicked wife frae the door, she disturbs us all.Duncan runs to the door, whispering, shame fa you for awife, gang out o’ that; but I’d rather hear you as them yet.Mess Jo//n. Now John, will you be so plain as tellme whe¬ther ye promist to marry that woman, when ye lay wi' her.Jock. Na stir, I didna lie wi’ her, for the herd and me layin the byre bed, and she lay in a little lang saddle at thehalend end.Mess . okn It’s all one whether ve lay with her or not,when ye have got h«r with child, that’s what ye confess.Jo.k 1 kenna whether I got her wi’ bairn or no; but Idid wi’ he«' as I did wi our Maggy, when she fell wi’ bairn.Mess But the question is, whether or no did youpromise to marry her when that child was gotten ?Jock. Hut, tut. stir, you wad fash fouk wi’spiering a thingt w as her that promist to marry me for the getting o C,Mess John, And did not you do the like to her ?17Jod. A what needed I do the like, when site and my mi-ther did it a’ but the wean getting-, she could :ta do that.Mess Jehu. Indeed John, you seem to have been a parcelof loose livers altogether.Jock A loose, stir, I wish I were loose yet, better be loosethan bun to an ill stake.Mess John. I see it is needless for me to inquire any fur¬ther into this matter. I find you out guilty, therefore youmust appear publicly on the stool of repentance on Sabbathnext, and the two following thereafter, or ye be absolvedfro.n the scandal.Jock. Indeed, master ministei, I am very easy about repen¬tance, and for your stool, it’s a seat am very indifferent about,for I’m but bashful and 1 was never guilty of gettin by-starts, before or sin syne, except in thoughts, words, deedsand actions, 1 think you may e’en let me pass, I sufferedenough wi’ the clash o’ .he kintry, and loss o’ my ain wean jit was nae bystart, ye canna gar me stand for that.Mess John. You appear to be such a stupid fellow, thelike o’you should neither have lawful child nor bystart,and I admire that such an idiot as you was allowed to bemarried to any woman; and you, James, who is elder ofthat proportion, should have given information of thisman’s capacity, before he was joined to a wife.Elder. Indeed sir, y e ken very well he answered the ques¬tions at the examine better than any other fouks, and thinkhe is best married, for he might a gotten more bystarts anda fash’d us.Jo:l. Indeed stir, it’s very true, for when ance I got thegate o’ women, 1 coudna bide aff them; but our Maggywas unco cunnen, she wadna let me do naetl.ing but kissher and kittle her, till ance ue was marriedMess John 1 11 ask no more questions at him : sail in hismother, (in she comes). Goodwife, we have ordered yourson to appear three Sabbaths on the stool, and there to bereproved before the congregation publicly, and be absolvedfrom the scandal.Moth Then the ill thief be his a-se, Mess John, gin e’erhe set a hip upon’t ; my bairn on your black stool! andwadna’t be a great blunder on the auld black faceo't, to myson to gang on’t before the young laird, wha has had twabvstarts and never set a hip on’t yet, and he’s continuallyriding on the hissies to this day, and them that wadna hthim, he rives their dints, a:-d kicks their doups ' A dearMess John, an ye gie gentle fouk a toleration to whore,"for-18nirate, kiss and kuddile a wee wi’ ilka body they like, I’llpie you ten marks and gie t to me and my son too.Mess Jo/j'i What shall we do with these odious persons.Eldat. Indeed fir we see not what wecanmmkeof them.Mess John. Make of them! we’ll exclude them from allchurch benefit,and lay them under lesser excommunication.Milk. Indeed stir, tak y°ur rnind o t, as our < at did o’the haggies, when she sipped it a’ and crap in o’ the bag.If ye winna christen the wean, ye canna hinder us to casta cogfu’ o’ water on the face o t, and ca’c ony thing we like.So out she goes, shooting Jockey before her : so Johnwent and pislu cn the auld minister s widow’s gavel, andthere was nae mair about it that day.PART IV.How Jockey and hit Mother went away to nee his Bystai t child, ^ .Now Jockey and his mither came hame together, chick forchow, cracking like twa hand guns.Mith. 1 trow 1 have fought a battle this day, and win thefield condingly, when 1 hae conquered a* the canker’d carlesabout the kirk.Joei. Indeed mither, I think you are a better man northe minister, and gin ye had Arithmattock end Latin token the kittle figures, ye may preach as well as he.Mith. I trow, Jock lad. their Black stool of sham repen¬tance ne’er got sic a rattle as 1 hae gien t the day.Jock Na, na, mither, a’ the whore-mongers ihat ever set ahip on’t kens na sae muckle about the auld foundation on’tas ye do.Mith. But Johnny man, gin thou wad start in the morn¬ing, the first o’ the daft clays, and that’s on Munday, yeand I wad gae to see that daft jade Jenny, the mither o't.Jock Wi’ a’ my heart mither ; but we maun gie’t some¬thing, gin it were but an auld -sarvet or an auld gark to keepthe hips o’t warm; young weans are aye wet about thearse, ye ken.Mith Wee! then Johnny. Tse cry to thee wiien the hensbegin to kackle, and that’s about lire break o’ day; andwe’s be ready to tak the road against l orry burn day kght,when we’ll ken a t—d frae a stane.Up gets auld Maggy. Jock’s mither, in the morning,putson the kittle, and makes her Yool sowens; the mickle pothung on the fire a’ night wi’ the check of an .mid cow’s r ead.She skims aff the fat and maks a great cog o' Brose; tiien19pours on a chappen of clean crish lilte oil, which made abrave sappy breakfast for Jockey and his mither; and Mag¬gy got the cog to scan.The brose being done and a’ things ready, he halters theblack mare, lays on the sunks, and a covering, fine furniturefor a country wife.Jockey mounts and his mother behind him, tints awa’, tiilcoming dowtrthe brae aboon John Davie’s well, the auldbeast being unfiery o’ the feet, she fund’red before, thegirth and iruppie broke. Jockey tumbled o’er her lugs, andhis mither out o’er him in the wall wi’ a flung..lock. Ay, ay, mither, tho’ I fell, ye neednafa en aboon me ;and gin ye had lyne whar ye lighted first, ye wadna tumbledinto the wall ; its an unco thing that a body canna get a fa’but ye maun fa’ oboon them, auld ruddock it tu is, thoumight hae hauden better by the rumple, and then wadnaha’e bruised a’ my back wi’ your auld bard banes, nor haewat yoursel sae; and see how ye hae drummeld a John Da¬vie’s wall.Hech, quo’ she, 1 wonder gin I be killed ; thoua’wise was wont to get the' word of a guid rider, baitb uponhissies and horses, gin this be thy management thou’s littleworth—fell’d the auld banes it bore thee : sic aba'h as I haegotten to my Yool! thou coudna gi’en me a war bed nor awater hole in a cauld frosty morning; wae he to thee andthat ill gotten gate o’ thine: O ! let never a better bountybe gotten wi’ byitarts getting: and this is sae much o’ thefruits o fornication, a war stance than the black stool yet.Jock. I.et’s a-be now wi’ your au'd jaunts about bystartsge.ting, or I se gie you the wind o’ the mare's tail, and garyou whaminel hame wi’ a’ your wat coats about youib’/t/i. Na. na, my man Johnny, hand th auld jade till Iloop on ; we came together, and we’s gang hame together ;we sail see thy b)start and its mother, or we gae hameJock. Wi’ a’ my heart, mitlur, but yondir’s the house andthe htns on t ; the lutns reeking rarely, but little ken theywha’s coming.At length thiy came to Jenny’s mother’s door;In goes Jock's mother, and in goes his mare ;Himself goes after, and cries, How’s a here.Mith. Hech! is^that poor body in her bed yet?Her mother answers ; Weel 1 wat she’s in her bed, andcald, cald, and comfortless is her lying. Bystart getting islike lent gear, seldom or never weel paid back again; but20my poor lassie coudna done war than she’s done. O igin she had yielded her body to some bit bird laddie hewad a seen her lang or now.Milh. A dear Marion, what wad ye be at ? Do ye thinkthat our John, wha has a wife o’s ain, cou d come and waiton her as if she were a dame of honour, or yet an honestman’s wife; poor silly lown it she is; gin he had thoughton what he was corn’d o’; he wad a ne’er ha’e offered bene¬volence to the like o’ her.Marion. Gin ye had been as great an instrogator againsthis making her double ribbit, as ye’re now against doingher justice for the filthy jimcrack he’s gi’en her, ye wadnaneed toxa’ her silly lown the day, and him an honest man.But ne’er an honest man wad hod’ld sae lang on ae poorhizzie, and thengaueawa’ and a married anlther for loveof a pickle auld clouts, and twa or three pockfu s o’ tow ;and she but a silly loun indeed, that lute him or ony rattle-scull else, shak their tail sae lang upon her, without his faithand his troth, and his fist before the minister.Mith A cauld be your cast kimmer, do you think it yourdadeling daughter’s a match for my son John: I think lessmay sair, her father was but a poor cotter carle, and ourJohn’s father was a farmer ; and altho’ they hae fa’en foulo’ ither, I think nae sairly o't, its but a trick o’ youth, andthe course of youdeth maun be out; but she may thankgood fortune, and tell her friends, ay, and count it creditthat ever she bore a bystart to the like o’ him ; a good, fu,’fat farmer’s son, but ae step laigher nor a laird.Mar. A wae be to sic a credit, it’s no worth the crackingo’; and whar was a’ his noble equals whan he be’t to layhis leg on a my poor lassie, poor clatty cluny it tu is ? andif they ware no ae Hand’s mak, 1 wad think naething o t;for there warna a needle o’ differ between their daddies :and what ware they baith but tvvasiicket tailors at the best ?ye had as good a gane hame and counted your bowkaii-stocks, as come here to count kindred wi’ me.Joct. Hut awa daft witless wives, 1 kinna what you’refitting about; I wad rather see the wean gin it be onything wally and like the warld.Mar. Indeed sail ye John, you’ll see your ain picture forlitle siller; a muckle mouth’t leveral it is just like yoursel./'T/li Chili i: fresente I)Jock. Mither, mithor it has a,muckle mouth just likemine, and sees wt’ baith its e’en, and bit five days auld yet.21MUk. Dear Johnny, thou’s nowise man, wad tu hae thewean to be bllhd ? the poor thing saw whan it was new born.Jock. A what ken 1 mither, am no saeweel skilled as thehoodies, and them that's ay habling weans; but I thoughtthey had a’ been like the wee bits o' whalpies, nine nightsauld before they had seen ony.Mith. Awa,awa, ye witless widdyfu’, comparing a beasttill a woman's ain bairnie: a dog is a brute beast, and awean is a chrisen’d creature.Jock. Na, niither, it’s no’ a christened creature yet; for ithas neither gotten the words nor the water ; nor as littledo I ken how to ca’t yet.Mnr. I wat weel it’s a very uncanny thing to keep about ahouse, or yet to meet in a morning, a body wanting a name.Milk. Hout. out ay, ye it’s auld wives is f j’ o’ frits, an’religious fashions : them that looks to frits, frits followthem; but it is six and thirty years since 1 was a marriedwife, and I never kend a Sabbath day by amther ane, monya time till the bell rung., Mar. Dear guidwife, what needs ye speak sae loud ; Yefright the wean wi’ crying sae—see, it starts.Mhh. Ay, ay; the bystarts is a’that way; but ken yethe reason o’that ?Mar. Ye that kens the reason of every thing may soonfind ■ >ut that too.M\th. A deed than woman, I 11 tell you: the merry be¬gotten weans—it's bystarts 1 mean—are red wood, half witethillorket sort o’ creatures; for gif it be not ane amang ■twenty o’ them, they’re a’ scjr’d o’ the getting, for there’sfew, few o’ them gotten in beds like honest fcuk’s bairns;but in out houses, auld barns, backs c’ dykes, and kil-logies,whar there’s ay some body wandering to scar poor needfu’persons at their job o’ journey-wark; for weel I ken thegates o’t—experience gars me speak.Jock. A deed, nuther, that’s very true; for whan I wasgetting that wean at the black hole o’ the peat stack, JohnGammel’s muckle black colly cam in behind us wi’ bow,wow, of a great goul just aooon my buttocks ; and as I’ma sinner, he gart me loup leveruck height, and yet we gotthe wean for a’ that.Mith. A weel then, Johnny, that maks my words good yet.Jenny answers out of the bed—A shame fa’ your fashions ;ye hae na muckle to keep when ye tell how it was gotten,or what was at the gettiu o’t.Jock. A shame fa’ yourstl, Jenny, for I hie gotten my22part o’ (lie shame else; and gin you ha/lna teld first therewad nane kend, for nae body saw us but John GamineI’sauld colly and he’s no a sufficient witness.Afar. Now. good-wife, amang a’ the tales ye hae tell’dme, how is this wane to be maintained ?Mith, 111 chance on your auld black mouth, Marion, didnot I send you my guid sprinted hen, a pound of butter,and sixpence, forby a lippy o’ groats, and a furlat o’ meal :mak her a >,ood cogfu’ o’ brose, and put t knoist o’ butterin them, to fill up the hole whar the loun came out, and I IIsend med or that be done.Mar. An it be na better than the last, you may een keepit to yoursel ; your groat meal and gray meal, sand, dustand seeds, coarse enough to feed cocks and hens, besides awoman in her condition.Mith. A foul be your gabs, ye're a’ sae gash o’ your gab¬bles ; a wheen fools that stive up your guts wi’ good meat,to gar the worms turn wanton and wallop in your wames;feed yoursels as I do, wi’ hack t kail, brose made o’ groatmeal, gray meal, sands, dust and seeds, and weak shilling;ony thing is good enough to fill the guts, and malt a t—d of.Joti. Na, oa, mither, gin the wean wad suck our Maggy,I sud tak it hair.e in my oxter.A/M. O, ye fool ! Maggy’s milk is a’mould, salt and sap¬less lang syne; but l trow she wad keb at it, as tne black ewedid at the white ewe's lamb the last year ; sae speak naemair o’ Mtggy’s milk. No to compare a cat to a creatine,■ he yell cat’s never kind to kittens, and the maiden’s bairnsis a’ unco weel bred..jW. Na, na, ye’re a’mista’en, milber; Maggy has milkyet, for every pap she has is like a burn pig ; 1'se warrandyou they’ll baud pints the piece.MM. My man Johnny, let them keep the wean that hasthe wean ; we ll never miss a pockfu’ o’ meal, nowand thenI wadra hae my bed pist, and blankets rotten for a bow o’the best o’t.Joni. O, mither ! I canna’ lea’t, I like it sae weel ; it hastwa bonny glancing een, just like nvne in a looking gla<s.I wonder how 1 was able to get the like o t. Indeed, mither,I think mair o’t nor I do o’ my giey horse, Maggy, and thefour ky.MM. Mv man Johnny, ye're at nae strait about bairnsgetting; nae needs to gang to London to learn that auldtrade, I ken very weel when ane ^ets warklums right iutheir hand, nature will teach them how to fa’ on t.53Joil. Now fare \ou werl, Janet; that wane is weel worththe workmanship, I warant ye—well 1 «atist.Jinny. Guid night wi’ you, John; but oh, man! thou sbioke my fortune. Ill never get mair o’ man nor I haegotten ; and dear, dear, hive I suffered for what I hae done .and if thcu hadst bestowed thyself on o’me, ye see w hat abonny bairn time we wad hae haen.Mith. Thou says its thou’s suffered sadly for what thou’*done; but iho’fthey wad tak the hide o'er thy een holes, itwadna tak the inclination out o’ thee; for thou II do t again ;but it'll no’ be wi' my bairn, 1’se warrand thee. And now,Johnny, come awa’ hame to thy haulf morrow, and use thyfreedom as formerly; thou’ll hae weans thick and threefauld ; I'se mak thee decoction of cock staues, lamb etanes,and chicken broe. will gar thee cock thy tail like a mevies,and canter like a Galloway top.THE Vth AND LAST PART.B, \ng an euount of Jodeys Mother's Death amt Burial—thebattiiinz of his Two Children, ar.d hoiv he mount, d the Stool—with an elegant T.legy and Epitti^ih on that occasion.As Jockey ard hismither came hobbling hame together onthe outside o’ the auld doil'd beast, his mither’s black mare,a waefu misfortune btfel them. Her Underlets being wick¬edly wet in John Davie s well that morning, and it being afrosty night, her coats were a' frozen round about her, andthe bird ham sark played dash between her legs like a wetdishclout ; her tooth gied like a rattle bag till about halfgate hame ; then she was suddenly seized with a tumblingin her mucicle hag, what we kintry fouks ca’s a rush i’ththe guts. Jockey was fash’d helping her aff and helpingheron: foul, fat, and dirty was tne road, having like halfa t—d at every ladder-length.Jock Deed, mither, T doubt death has something to do wiyou, for there s a rumbling in a’ your weame like an auldkirning.Aiiih. He ut, tout, 1 cana hear o't, but they’ll be na fear0' me now. I m safe at my am door, thanks to thee an(1*theauld beast it brought me. Heat my feet wi the bannockttane, ana lay me in my bed , fling four pair o blankets anda ranno’s on me. I’ll he well enough, an ance I were better.Swieth, Maggy, gie me a cogfu o' milk brose, and a plack sworth o’ spice in them ; nae fear o’ an auld wife as lang asshe s loose bellin’, and can take meat.Joci. I se be t, mither, ae en fill up the bow's o’ your bell,24you'd stand to the storm the better : I'se warran ye neverdie as lang as you can tak yer meat.Ben comes Maggy wi’ the brose ; but four so^ps and a .fla? filled her to the teeth, till she began to bock them backagain, and ding away thedith.Jot.k. I, mither, mither, I judge'there's mair ado wi’ younor a dish to hck; when you refuse guid milk meat, amdoubtfu’ your mouth be gawn to the muses.Mith. I, dear Johnny, am no willeu to die if I could dobetter; but this will be a sair winter on auld frail f ilks,yet an I wad grow bstter, I might live this twenty year yet,and be nae auld wife for a’ that ; but alake a diy, there iseen mony auld fouk dying this year.Jock A deed, mither, there's fouks dying this year thatnever died before.Mith. Dear Johnny, wilt thou bring me the doctor? hemay do me some gude, for gin my heart warna sick, and :my headsae sair, I think I may grow bstter yet.Jotk. A weel, mither, I se bring the doctor, the minister, 'the elder, and my uncle.Mith. Na, na : bring nae ministers to me, his dry cracks’ill do me little guid. I dinna want to see his pouder d pow,and 1 in sic an ill condition ; get me a pint o’ drams in themickle bottle, and set it in the hole in the back side o’my bed.Jock. I deed, mither, ye're in the right o t, for ye want to ;be weel warmed within, to chase the cauld wind and frostywater out at your backside.Then awa’ he ring to draff Meg s, at the Kitktown, andbrings a bottle in every hand. Out wi' the cork gaes herain in o’er, she sets it to her gab and suattles up a mutchkinat a waught, which was like to wirry her, till she fell a rift¬ing and roaring like an auld blunder bush.Miih? Heck hay" co' she,"but that makes an alteration,and wears awa’ the wind.”Wi’that, her head fell to the cod, and she sought awa'likea very saint or drunken sinner.J.ick. Oh! Maggy, Maggy ! my mither's lost her breath,(she’ll no live long without it. I don’t she he dead already,and nae body see her but ye and 1 and oursels twa ; and shehad bem fair o.erseen it maksna. I’fl no baud this a fairstrae death, indeed. Fy, Maggy, cry in a’ the neighboursto sue her die, although she be deed. O an she wad shakeher fit, or wag her mickle tae, it would aye be some satis¬faction. But in came the neighbours in a hush, dingingithcr down in the door.25JWJ Cvmeaway Sins,-for mj' milher's as dead as a mauV,goo ) be thankee for't but I'd rather it had been-the bUckmare, or the murkle risfat cow : for wee* I wat Til e'enmiss her: for she was a bra’ spinner o’ tow, and coud arardet to twa murkle wheels She had nae faut but ane, andthat was her tongue ; but she’ll speak nae mair, Fe, get sa dale or a barn door to straught heron, for ay when «hewas cauld, she was unco kankert and ill to currh, but I «ehae her yerded on Wednesday teen.Come, come, says Maggy, we maun hae her drest.J»ri Whst does the fool mean ? Wad ye dress a deadwoman ; she ll never gang to kirk or market a’ her days again.Mug. I dear 7ohn, beat ease, ye ken she mauna be buriedthe way she is ; a sark and winden-sheet is the least shecanget.Jerk I ha. Maggy, is that what ye m-an ? She has a guidnew winden-shret, it was never about her shouloer yet ;gae, Maggy, do t a’ yottrsel, and I se gar Clinken Bell mea¬sure the grave and mak it.Now when they brought out the corpse John Void thepeople -they were welcome, to had in a cheek o’ his auldniither west the gate ; and being laid right on the spakes,hach had! quoth he, this is a bra’ honesty, indeed —it s inairhoukie nor my bridal was But when they came to thegrave, it was o’er short and straight about the mouth, whichset John in a great passion, saying a foul fa’ your naughtyfashions, master bellman ; did not I packshion wi’ you forthe bried o’ my mither’s hack, and length o’ her carkage .and this hole winna hand her. Thou’s get nae mair o’ mychange if J sude die the morn.Uncle Rahie. Whist, whisht, sir! this slide be a day o’mournme for your mil her—dinna flyre here.Jcct. What the vengeance, Uncle ; sudua fouks die whenthey're auld ? And am I to pay tor a hole, and get hut halfa hole? That's the thing that vexes me. But Tse keeploupence out o’ his trencher for’t, and sae will I een. Butgang ye hame, Uncle, to get cog and cap »-t the deargry,and i’ll see her get fair play or I gae •Hame they came in a croud, and fell to the cheese andcheeks of loaves tooth and nail. The ale was handed up incogs and caps, lashing it down o’er like bletchers waterinu-their webs. John blutter’d in the coag like a cow in warmwater, till the barm and bubbles came belching out at hisnose, saying, a guid Tiealth do you all round about, andsoon and shortly may we a' gang the gate my milher’s gaue,and I wish them a burying amang dogs that speaks against it.About eight and twenty weiks tiitre«fier, Maggy -M a.■wsliy weame-fu’ o' wean* to bear, ami ay when obe cried,Jolan tried, whirh made the ki.nmers and *uIA Ketty theHowd'e laugh hetTtiiv to hear them.Adtfy Here now, Johit, your wife’s brought to bed wi abra’ lad bairn, gie him your blessing,Jt,cl, Weel 1 wat be’ff uo want that ; but an there bar!been as muckle clitt ntthe getting t)’ him, as attire bearing0 hiui, it £ude ne’er a lieen gotten for me. Conte, come,tit, uncle Rabbie, the rorn-riddle fu* o* the three neukeeiscons , wb-attg down the Cheese like peats , eat and drink 1«htyiniihers deargry, till we forget our sorrow , and then ,<We’ilsee Mess Joim about a name to him ; since we see it <khe way o’t that the young comes into the world and chasesoirtrthe atiM, we maun eriseu them, and they maun bury us.Now, John and his Uncle goes to the minister: he enters,paying, guideen to you, Mr. Minister, ye dinua ken mytnither’s deed ?aVfi/t/rtcr Yes, John, I heard so. Bet how is your wife ?Joci My wife, sir, a wat worth her, for the wives o’ our+*>wn and I has gotten a waking night wi’ her ; but we ha^g'otten her tum'd and stidd again. She’s born a bra’ walley•Hiumpiiig itirra : he’ll herd the kye beliaf to me gin he hadfiuggers on him, and Pm corn’d to you to get him a bit name,Al 'mister. A bit name to him, John : if you want uo morebut a name to him, you may gie him that yourself.Jorh. Na, hut sir, I want both the wot ds and the water;who you say-to ithef fouks, say to me.Mmiiter 1, but John, you mu-t give security or satisfac.ttOUf You’re a man under scandal.Joel What the muckle mhrhief, sir, tho’ under scandal,or abune scandal, will you refuse to chrisen my weau that’s"honestly gotten in my am wife’s bed, beneath the blankets,’Cause 1 had a bystart! Canua ye crisen the wee! corn’d aue,let (he by-start stand fot its ain skritb without a name.Mini,ter. Mb John, you hive been too slackly dealt withyi'll bring you to obedience by law, since you n-ject counsel.Joei.. A deed, sir, J wad think naeihtng to stand a time ottwaon’t to please you, if there were nae body in the kirkeu a. ukeday but you and The eldrr to flyte a wee on me,Bot it’s waur on a Sunday^ to hie a’ bodyj looking andlaughing at me, as I h*d been coding the pieie, suppen theUrn, or something ihil'snt) bonny, like pissing the bed.JUi/ihttr. A' wcU, John^ never mind you these things.Ci'nif ve to the stool —It's uothfrijj wlicn it’s ovt r : we cannotsay o'er much to you ahout it.Upon Sun lav thereafter, John comes wi' uncle RaluVs■auicl wide coat, a muehle threat ^ray langtatled wi>f and bagbonnet wh'ch covered h>3 face , so that he srem»d more likean old pilttrim than a younjj fornicator—mounts the eretpywith a stiff, stiff btck, as if he had been a man of siitty,every one'ooking at him, thinking he was some old stran¬ger who knew not the stool of repentance bv another seat,so that ho passed the first day unknown but to very few ;yet. on the second day, h came do be known ,that the wholeparish , and many more, came to see him. which caused sucha confusion, that he was absolved, and got his children bap¬tized next day.-B it there happened a tulzie between the twa mothers whowould have their names to be John, A weel, weel, saysold John, tlieir father, xp the. minister—deed sir, ye maunca’the dane John, and the ifhsr Jock, and that will pte*seboth these enemies o’ mankind ■Mv-iittr A weel, John, supoosc ye do, it is still twaJohns nevertheless.-Joel A iLetd sir, ye maun gie the wicked a' their will ;wese ca’the bystart Jockie and my son, Johnny Bell. On’wi’t some way, and let her ca't as she likes..Miniiier A dear Johnny, but yo i speak indifferently aboutIbis matter; ye know not the nature of it.Jo<k A mouy thanks to you , mess John. Now, whenye Vt8e christened baith my bairn and my bystart, 1 hopeyou’ll fargit me the buttflek maiM.ji7in/,/fr, John. I desire ye to be silent and tospeak nonehere , you must keep a straight ws'k in time coming, freeof-Scandal or offence.Sotl Ay .sir, and how think ye the like o’ me can walkStraight wi'sic auld shevlin heeled shune as mme, amang4iC rough rigs, highs and hows As I hae-to harl throw -Aliniit.r. I Yieei not speat to you; ye are but a poor,mean, ignorant person.vrtcl Na, sir, well I wat I'm neither poor, nor yet wean.Urty mither’s fairly tyerded now, guid be thanketf and leftshe had to Maggy and me-Aliniiter But hear ye this, John, vou must not kiss anyOther woman than your own wife , live justly like anotherhonest Christian, and voul! come to die well.Joel A black end on «’me, sir, gin ever J la_y an unlatv-lu) leg upon-a Vissie again gin -they sud lie down "to mevfii’e our Maggy hsts ; and for dicing, ilicreli nae fear o'that. But I’ll no’ pet fair play if yc and a’ ihe aulder fouko' the pariah be not deed before me: ao I hae done wi’ ytnuw.AN EPITAPH.Hejie lies the dust of John Bell’s mirher—Against her will Death’s brought herhitKer:Clapt in this hole hard by his daddy —Death snatched her up or she was ready.Lang might she liv’d, wer’t not her weime ;But wha can live beyond theii time iThere’s nane laments her but the souter,So here she lies looking about her.—Looking about her ! How can that be ?—■Yrs{ she sees her state better than we.AN ELEGYOb the Death of Jacte/i Wither.Now, be it kend my Mithei’s dead—For weel I wst I bore her head,And in the grave I saw her laid ;It was e’en drole.For her to change a warm fire sideFor a cauld kirk-hole.But tllrt ane tell’st just like a sing,That yon's the gate we’ve a’ to gang;For me to do’t, I think nae lanr.If 1 can do better;For I Irow my mither thinks’t nae sang—What needs we clatterBui thanks to Death a’ for the ftiiter,That did not let her get the souter ; —About her gear there wad been a splutter.And sae had been ;For he came ay sneaking about herLate at e'en.For dear Maggy watched and sawMy mither’s back was to the wa ;But what was mair, hach ha! hach halI winra tell.6he to do yon stood little awe —Just like rnyselhBut to gft gear was a’ her drift,And used monie a pinping shift-;About her spinning and her thrift,Was a’ her care.hheY gotten little o’t, boon tile lift, Wi’ her to wantTXNIS.