THELifeANDSurprising AdventuresOF v)Sir William Wallace,THEChampion of Scotland.STIRLING:Printed and Sold by M. RandalL’•.vTHELIFEOFSir William Wallace. %SIR WILLIAM WALLACE was adefcendant of an ancient and hon¬ourable family in the weft of Scotland ;he was the younger fon of Sir MalcolmWallace of Ellerflie, by his wife, whowas a daughter of Sir Ronald Crawford,Sheriff of Ayr. The precife period ofWallace’s birth is unknown, but it ishighly probable that it muft have beenfometime before the death of AlexanderIII. in 1286.The mind of Wallace in his youngerdays was directed in its progrefs to ma¬turity, by John Blair a Benedictine monkat Dundee, who was afterwards his chap-rain and lived to record his exploits.It appears, that during the early partof his life, Wallace had refided chieflyin retirement. At what time he flrftemerged from the peace and the im-5provement of private life is uncertain;but it is prefumed to have been aboutthe period of the battle of Dunbar,where the difcipline of Edward’s fo!-diers triumphed over the loofe voilenceof the Scottilh army, as much as his pol¬itician finefle overcame the wifdom ofthe Scottilh nobility in other fpheres ofcontention.After the humiliation of Scotland,Wallace returned to Dundee, (if in facthe had been engaged in the war), for thepurpofe of ftudying under the fuperin-tendance of his tutor, Blair. He beheldthe oppreffion of his countrymen withhorror and indignation, he fympathifedin the iufferings of individuals, and hemourned the degradation of his carveland. While thefe fentiments animat edhis bofom, he was, in an accidental ren¬counter, affaulted by a young Engliih-man, fon of Selby the conftd’ole ©! Dun-de. Though a {tripling he pofieffed in*conceivable bodily ftrength; he over¬came young Selby in a feuffle which en-fued, and killed him with his own dag¬ger, in prefence of a number of hi' com¬panions. This action expofed him tinerage o' the Englifh, compelled him La. eekrefuge in retirement from the pj:..'di¬me nt which would have followed. H v-ing {lain all Selby's attendants who©ppofed his flight, and being ftill purfu-cd very keenly, he went into an inn,cxhaufted with his exertions. Wallacewas inftantly drefled in the attire of afemale, and was bufiiy employed twirlinghis diftaft and humming bis fong, whenthe purfuers learched the boufe, whichthey had fcen him enter. They were focompletely outwitted by his device thatthey did not dilcover him ; and uponretiring from the immediate purfuit, hefound himfelf at leilure to concert andadopt meafures for the more effectuallyfecuring his retreat. Having left theroof of his kind hcftefs, he bent his ftepstowards the refidcnce of a paternal uncleat Dunipace.Wallace, after a ihort ftay with hismother at Dunipace, proceeded to Elicr-flie, On their arrival, they learned fromSir Ronald Crawford, the lady’s husbandand'elder fon had been cruelly murderedat I jsclimaben, by the Englifh, who in-fefted and tyrannized over the wholecountry without controul. The old ladygot a promife of protection from Percy,Edward’s Lord Lieutenant: but Wallaceftorned to accept of protection from thebauds of thofe men who had become thetools of that tyrant's oppressions. In thisfituation of his affairs, he went to live infecrecy at tbehoufe dfhispaternaluccle*4SSir Richard Wallace of Riccsrlon wherehis reftlefs and patriotic averfion to theEnglifh tyranny permitted him not longto remain. One day he went a-Sfiiing.and in the courfe of his paftime was in¬terrupted by the infolent rapacity of fomeof Lord Percy's followers, who happenedto pafs the {'pot where he was, the onlyweapon he had was bis fifhing rod, withwhich he beat one of them to the ground,and having wrefted the fword from him,he foon taught the crowd, by whom hewas fpeedily aftailed, that his individualilrength, skill, and intrepidity were fu-perior to their united force: he killedfeveral of the party, aad the others fled,confounded at the matchlefs prowefs oftheir Angle antagonift. He rode hometriumphant to hie uncle, on a horfe leftby the perfons whom he killed or terri¬fied ; and he was now infpired withajufi:confidence in Uis own powers, by thofet x ploits. H is refidence with Sir Richardnow be:oming very infecure, he refolv-ed to devote his mightieft exertions, and> even life itfeif, to the deliverance of his> country, or to the chaftifement of its op-| prefsors; and accordingly he d ;fi:royedr, many Englifh as came in his way, fpar-I ing neither the dignified nor the mean.(For thefe noble acti^hs he was out¬lawed by the finglilbfT and compelled ta6live durisg the moft inclement fdafbn*of the year entirely in the o^en fieldfjthe woods, and mountains, where he of¬ten wandered, fubjscted to all hardfhipsthat is poffible for human nature to fus--tain; but animated by a fpirit that enab¬led him to bid defiance to the direft ca¬lamities that afiailed him.The exploits of Wallace were foongenerally known, and attracted the no¬tice of many, who, dreading the flrata-gems of Edward to fubvert their indepen¬dence.. had courage to hazard their Ibesfor the liberty of their country. At thehead of fuch men as thefe, Wallace per¬formed Inch exploits as polterity has fur-veyed with ajfionilhinent He would fre¬quently fally ®ut of his lurking places,and with an handful of meh, defeatwhole multitudes. His perfonal firengthwas extroardinary, and had often beentried ; but to this he did not io muchtruft as to ftratagem. Expeditious andindefatigable, cautious though undaunt¬ed. he eluded the purl'uits cf his enemies,and never /expofed himfelf to numbers,but when certain to fruftrate their en¬deavours, if net to triumph in their def-truefion. The Englifii having proclaim¬ed a juftice-aire to be held at the townof Ayr, 12th Jun* 1296, many of theneighbouring landed gentry attended,■ 7fcveral of whom being accuFed of felony,were immediately condemned and exe¬cuted. Among thefe were Sir RonaldCrawford fheriff of Ayr, and grandfatherof Wallace, Sir Bryce E’.air, lSir NielMontgomery, and many of the barons ofKyle, Cunningham, Garrick, and Clydef-dale. The few that efetped having in¬formed Wallace of this dreadful cataftro-phe, with his ufual intrepidity, heimrned-iately affembled fifty o?his followers fe-cretly entered Ayr in the night, and fetfire to the place where many of the En-glifh were afleep. The garrifon iffuingforth from the caftle, fell into an ambtifhlaid for them, and were all put to thefword The fort being immediately leiz-ed, Walhce marched next day to Glas¬gow, when engaging a body of troops,under the command of Lord Piercy hecompletely routed them, and quicklyafter took the caftle of Stirling, recover¬ed Argyle and Lorn, with the town ofSt Johnfton and adjacent country, andcontinued daily doing fbme fignal mif-ckief to the Engliih and their friends.Travelling through Angus and Mearns,he^ arrived at Aberdeen, from whichthe Englilh had juft made their ef-cape by fea, and made himfelf mafterof all the towns of confequence in thenorth. In the mean time, Sir Williams’Wallace was, by the majority of-the king¬dom, elected guardian of Scotland, andviceroy in-the abfence of Baliol. Thecattle of Dundee was the only place thatwitkftood the arms of Wallace in thenorth. While befieging this fort, he gotintelligence of the approach of the Eng-lifh army, commanded by John earl ofSurrey, and Sir Hugh Crefllugham, andjoined by many di&ffected Scots, to thenumber altogether of about forty thou-fand men i Wallace commanded theburghers upon pain of death to profe-cute with vigour the fiege he had begun.And he himielf, with ten thoufand faith¬ful adherents, marched towards Stirling,and encamped in an advantageous situa¬tion on a hill above the monaftery ofCambuskenneth, on the north side of theforth; which, having no fords at thatplace, was paflable only by a woodenbridge. I he Englifh army lay on thefou h of the Forth; and their generalsbeing desirous of bringing matters to anaccommodation, lent two Dominicanfriars with overtures of peace to Wal¬lace. Thefe terms, in/ulting in the laftdegree to the honor and independanceof Scotland, were rejected with difdain.“ Tell your officers, (laid Wallace),that we have, not come to this place totue forjpeace, that now we are ready tofind, and will immediately evince thatour country is ftill free.” This, anfwerirritated the Englilh generals, federal ofwhom delpising Wallace and hii follow¬ers prefumptuoufly exclaimed ‘ They areour own, let us inftantly charge them 1”The bridge formerly mentioned, ove*which it behoved the army to pali:, wasboth narrow and weak, and the Scottiihcarpenter, who fhortiy befo.-e had beenemployed to repair it, had. by Wallace’sdesire, cut the mam beams of it halfthrough, and thereby rendered it incap¬able of fiipporting a great weight. Ur¬ged by the impetuosity of Crefllngham,Murrey gave orders to the army to marchalong the bridge -, and Sir MarmadukeTwenge, a gentleman diftinguiftied forvalour and refolution, led the van, andboldly advanced to the foot of the hill,on which the Scots had drawn up theirarmy in order of battle Here Wallace: j •.•ii r„OT as many of theEnghlh had got over as ne ^-could fafely encounter ; but fo far frommaking a formidable opposit on, hegradually retreated as Sir Marmadukeadvanced. The Englifh commander pur-fued with vigour; but foon dilcovcredthat there was not a ftandard of his coun¬trymen in his rear. While fome of theScots feemed to flee before him, tfie16greater part having taken an unfrequent¬ed road, completelly intercepted his re¬treat, and the bridge having brokendown by the itnmenfe weight of fo manyarmed men, vaft quantities were drown¬ed in the river. All the Engfiih who haderoded the Forth, to the number of fixor 1'even thoufand, who were put to thefwerd, except Sir Marmaduke and a veryfew, who made their efcapc by fwimmingacfofs the river. Surrey, during all thistime, ftood on the fouth fide of the water,and had the galling mortification of fee¬ing his men drowned and flain, withoctbeing able to afford them the fmalkft re¬lief. As focn as Twenge joined Surrey,he advifed him to fet on fire the remain¬ing part of the bridge, to prevent thevictorious Scots from purfuing and har-raffing their difheartened army. Thisexpedient proved cf little ufc; for thegreat fteward of Scotland and the earl ofLennox havinry'r;:'1'''uU/ mem-“U ambulh, at a Ihort diitancefrom the Englifir, came from behind themountains as focn as they afetnamedthe event of the cay, charged the retir¬ing Earl, put him to flight, and purfuedhim with liieh vigour, that with difficultyhe efcaped to Berwick.This glorious battle, fo difaftrruS tothe Eflglifh army, was fought on the1113th Septemper. Sir Andrew Mufrajwas the only Scotfinan of note that lollhis life, although many of the Eaglifh.commanders fell that day. This vic¬tory was evinced to be complete in itseffects and confequences. No Englifh-man durft remain in Scotland; and allthofe cots, who, for reafons of policyor of balenefs, Lad deferted to the £ng-lifh intercft, now fubmitted to Wallace,and hailed him as the deliverer of theircountry. And thus, in about fourteenmonths after the King had been depofedand his kingdom futidued and obligedto own a foreign prince as their heridi-tary king, did Wallace, till then, a privateobfeure gentleman, unaccuftomed tomartial exploits, without money or armsbut fuch as he took from the enemy,an d with, only a handful of men, reftorethe nation to its ancient liberty and inde-pendance.Although the plunder taken at thebattle of Stirling was not inconfiderable,yet fo many armies ranging through allparts of the kingdom occaflorted a great1'carcity, and a general famine was iferi-oufly apprehended. To prevent thiscalamity, Wallace issued orders, com¬manding all Scotimen capable of bearingarms to be ready to join him by turns.The men thus raifed were formed into12regiments, and had officers appointedover th;m. Having thus arranged' alldomeftic affairs, and collected as manymen as he thought neceffary for his pnr-pofe, he, under himfelf, as commander,appointed Andrew Murray, furnamedthe noble, fon of Andrew Murray whoinertly before fell at the battle of Stir¬ling, and entered England on the 18thOctober. The inhabitants of Northum¬berland, alarmed at his approach, leav¬ing the country defencelels, fled withtheir families and effects to Newcaftle.Upon this, Wallace and his army halted,or rather feemed to retreat. The coun¬try people oblerving their retrogade mo¬tion, returned to their houfes, and wereali unawares furprifed by parties of thethe Scottiih army, who ravaged thecountry between Tyne Mid Dervent, farthe fpace of twenty three days. A bodyof frdh troops advancing now to theborders, fome of the former were lenthome, and had the peculiar fatisfactionof carrying hack with them to theirfiiends the welcome rews of their va¬rious fucceffes, particularly the plentyof food they had procured in the landof their enemies. But Wallace did notthink proper to attack them, or to pufhhis fuccefles farther; he had already donefufficient mifchkf to his enemies, andS3and had at an eafy rate, obtained muchglory to his countrymen, and reflecteddiftinguifhed iuftre on the Scottifh arms.The fame of Wallace, and the fplen-did victories which he had gained bothin Scotland and in England, fpread a-broad, and attracted the attention oi thecourts of England and France. Fuilipthe Fair,, the French rnonarch, heard ofhis ftTcceflcs with joy j but Edward I.king of England obferved them with de¬cided difpleafure: he felt much at beingsoutftripped by one whom he accountedhis inferior. The conftable and marflial ofEngland, the earls of Gloucefter, Surrey,and Arundel, and a great majority of theearls and barons of the kingdom agreedthat a Targe army fhould be inftantlyraifed, and that within eight days all theforces they could collect Ihould affembleat Newcatile. This meeting took placezi apobinted. and the army was foundto cov fift of four thoufmd and five hun¬dred cavalry, and upwards of a hundredthouland infantry. The prince and fore-faid nobleman headed this immenfebody, marched againlt the Scots, reliev¬ed the caftleof Roxburgh, which Wal¬lace was befieging, and took pofieffionof Berwick, which the Scottifh garrifonhad abandoned as untenable; and h.w-14ing proceeded thus far, they receivedorders from Edward to halt, till he hinr-felf, having now fettled his albirs a-bread, {Lculd come home, and put anend to the difturbances in Scotland.Edward having arrived in England onthe 21ft March, immediately lent lettersto Wallace, replete with infult and abufe,He told him, that he durft not have at¬tempted a revolt in Scotland, far Ids an'itivafion on England, had he himfelfbeen in the ifland. Sir William receivedEdward’s mefler.ger with that digni ywhich became his prelent fituaticn, andreplied that he had more reafon to takethe advantage of Edward’s abfence to de¬liver his country from fervitude, thanhe of the divifions of a free and inde¬pendant people to enflave them: he ad¬ded, that he had invaded England to re¬pay the injuries dene to Scotland j thathe meant to keep his Eafter in the samecountry, and he iimted his higlyjefsto that feaft. He punctually did what hepromiled. Edward had a great army toeppofe him. But Sir William's couragewhich had been ccnfpicuous all along,did not fail him here; with his ufual in¬trepidity, he collected hi* chofen troops,rallied, and came in fight of the mightymonarch near Stamnore.Edward's army appeared to the $cots15to be incredibly nurr vous, the armourof the foldiers glittering, the equipageof the cffiters rich and elegant, and thefound of their trumpets and noife oftheir drums pompous and terrible. Yetfuch was the ardour and bravery of manyin the Scottifh army, that they requeftedleave from the guardian to go a-picker-ing, and thus by confpicuoufl/evincingtheir undauntdd intrepidity, to aim atthe honour of knighthood. But this fa¬vour Wallace' was by no means difpoledto confer. He ifllted a proclamation,commanding all his men upon pain ofdeath to keep their sanks, to march withgravity and to attempt nothing withouthis orders. Edward obfsrved and ad¬mired the order, dilcipline, end for¬midable appearance of the fame enemyhe had been hitherto aceufcomed to dei-pife. His own veteran and experiencedmi arrived from Flanders,and in this fituation he thought it im¬proper to haztrd his own glory, thelives of Ins nobles, and the forfeiture ofhis claim, with an ur.dikiplined thoughnumerous militia, againfl a fmall but re-fifliefs army, in which etery cfficer andevery ibldier acted the part of a hero.Edv.ard, therefore, wifely retired, andWallace, with r.o lefs prudence., checkedthe impetuous courage of h:.s men, who,16feeing t he enemy retreat, were eager tofollow and charge their rear. He againupon pain of death, difcharged every onefrom ftirring from their ranks, and told- his followers, “ that they had done e-nough when they flood their ground,and kept their countenance in tne. pre¬fence of fuch a power, which one wouldthought was able to have fwallowed themUp: that this was in effect a victory, andlb much the more glorious,' that, theyhad gained it without drawing theirfwords.” This fptech being circulatedthrough the army, had an agreeable in¬fluence upon all their minds: the officersalighted from their hories, and the wholearmy proftrated themfelves on theground, while, according the cuffom ofthe day, they lung the praifes of St. An¬drew, the patron of Scotland, and re-turred thanks to St Cu'hbert, on whofefeafl, and in fome mev\.» re by whole in-tercelSon, they attributed their courage_ having been fo routed, and their enemiesput to flight.The glory of Sir William Wallace wasnow at its height; and as, by mumerousand gallant exploits, he had become theadmiration of Europe, and the terror ofEngland, and the darling of his country¬men; fo he was the object of the envy,jealoufy, and fear of the nobility.17JoliaCumlce of JBadenoch, and RobertBruce earl of Garrick, both of the bloodroyal, and both of afpiring difpofitions.were afraid that he would at length ufurpthe' fovereignity, and feize upon thecrown, to which they had a juft and le¬gal title. 1 hefe confiderations made theone join openly with the enemy, andthe other to act but faintly againft him.Thus did Scotland, by the wonderfulconduct and vigilance of its guardian,enjoy peace in the midft ef war, and thepeople, guarded by repeated victories o-ver their enemies, (ecurely cultivatedthe formerly neglected foil, and difperfedplenty over the land ; while at the fametime, the more powerful nobles, inebri¬ated with envy and jealoufy, outwardlyprofefled all the gratitude that was dueto the admired atchievemjnts of theirdeliverer, but lecretly confpired his ruin,and in order to effect this, caufed rum¬ours to be fpread abroad, intimating,that he defigned to uftirp the crown;fcnd that if an ufurper muft reign, a greatand mighty monarch, tho’ a foreigner,was preferable to an upftart of yefterday.By this time, the formidable armywhich Edward br.d left in Flanders, wasreturned to England; and he to ftrength-en it by the addition of all the forces18which that kingdom, with Ireland ar.dWales, could raifej had gratified his no¬bles refpecting the priviliges for whichthey had long contended ; and now theirjcaloufies being completely removed,they marched with him againft the Scotswith courage and alacrity. Tp oppo/ethis formidable power, Wallace had notabove thirty thouiand both horfe andfoot; yet in that high ftate of difcipiinewhich they had attained, and animatedwith that patriotic ardour which had longmarked their conduct, they would doubt-lefs have withftood their enemies, hadthey been commanded by the guardianalone: but unfortunately, two men, ofacknowledged bravery indeed, (but aswere the greater part of the nobility andtheir immediate dependants, for the rea-fons already noticed, his fecret enerfies),divided with him the command.In this petition did they remain atFalkirk, eleven miles from Stirling, tillthe army of Edward appeared on the221 day of July, after having reducedfevtral caftles, and penetrated thus farinto the heart of the kingdom. Andnow was the time in which the animofi-ties that unhapyily ibbfifted between thecommanders thould have been entirelybanifhed; but unfortunately for Sto>19-iand this ww not the cafe. Each of themwould have the honour of get ig firft up¬on the head of the van j Wallace, becaulehe was guardian of the kingdom; Cum-ine, on account of his more numerousvaflalage, and royal birth; and Stewart,becaufe he acted that day in place of hisbrother, the lord high fteward himfelf.whofe vafTals or military tenants wouldobey no commands but what he gavethem; and he is fa'd to have flood fomuch upon the pun£lilio of honour, thathe upbraided Wallace to his fa’e, char¬ged him with ambition and pride, andcompared him to the owl in the fable,which had nothing originally of its own,but begged a feather of every bird, andthus having acquired rich and gay plum¬age, pretended to beauty and faperiorityabove all others.It is eafy to conjecture what mu ft bethe rcfult of a battle begun at fuch a -time, and in fuch a manner. Whilethe fatal debate was agitated with thegreatefi heat, Edward, although he hadthat very morning got a fall from hishorfe, by which two of his ribs werebroken1, caufed a charge to be founded.The Scots were foon routed and loftupwards of ten thoafand men. Sir JohnCumine with thofe under his commandwent away without fighting at all,: Sir20John Stewart fought bra^gly and diedhonourably, as did all his dependants.And the guardian, who, in the begin¬ning of the action, had juft fufheienttime to addrefs this fhort fpeech to hismen, “ I have brought you to the king,fly if you can,” did all that could be ex¬pected from the greateft commander inthe worldThus Wallace, by the means to whichwe have already adverted, was obligedto retreat; on which account, and be-caufe of the numerous forces he took tothe feld, he was branded as the mainauthor of all the lofles which his countryhad fuftained.This line of conduct, however, he wasfoon after dtfpofed to follow: for by SirJohn Cuminc's conduct, both before andafter the battle, and by the converfationwhich he afterwards had with RobertBruce eirl of Carrick, he plainly under-ftood that thefe great men were actuatedby mere jealoufy, a paffion of all othersthe leaft eaniy checked ; and that bothhaving an eye to the crown, would al¬ways oppole. at leaft, would never hearti¬ly concur with one, who, m their appre¬hension ,had merit and ambitian enoughto fet it on his own head.After the glorious victory obtained inthe beginning of the campaign 1302, by21the Scots, in the vicinity of Roflin, whenhe had reafon to conclude that his coun¬try ftood not fo much in need of his fer-vice. It is faid that in his voyage to Francehe fought with and made prifoner, thefamous French pirate, Thomas de Long-uevile, commonly called the Red-rover;and that he was heartily welcomed andvery much carefled by Philip the Fair.At a time, when their fervices wereagain required, Sir William Wallace andhis unconquerable friends appeared a-gain in the field, in opposition to thatirrefiftable army, upon the head of whichking Edward marched triumphantlythrough, and a fecond time fubduednearly the whole kingdom of Scotland,king Edwaid had got reafon to dreadour hero; that prince did not thinkhimlelf an abfolute conqueror while hefurvived. But Wallace was not, as oth¬ers to te awed into fuhmifiion, by fines,forfeitures, or threats : he thereforecourted him with large and magnificentpromiles of honours and wealth, placesand peniions; but in vain, his conftantanfwer, both to his intimate friendsand to the emmiffaries of king Edwardwho addreffed him_on the fubject, was,i “ That he owed his life to, and wouldwillingly lay it down for his country;that, Ihould all Scotfmen but him-22felf iubmit te the king of England,he never would; nor would he give obe¬dience or yield allegiance to any power,except the king of Seotland, his rightfulfovereign.”Since therefore, neither threats, norbribes, nor example, neither open forcenor fccret ftratagem, could conquer theinvincible foul of this undaunted hero,Edward bethought him of the traitorSir John Monteith, one of thoie in whom |he placed the mcft unbounded confi¬dence, brought a party of Englifhmenupon him as he lay concealed in theneighbourhood of Glalgow Thefe hav¬ing immediately apprehended him. car¬ried him to London, by orders of kingEdward* -As this misfortune, the great-eft that, at this conjucture, could befalthe kingdom of Scotland, was inexpref-iibly afflictive to all its fincere friendsand honeft defenders: ib it gave joy andpleafure to all ranks of people in Eng¬land. They now imagined the war wasat an end: yet even the rabble couldnot but pity the hard fate of an enemyWhen he arrived in London, he was .conducted to and lodged in the houfe ofone Williarh Delect, in Fenchurch ftreet. ,The next day [23d Auguft 1305] he wasbrought on horfeback to Weftminfter, jfo renowned23aceompanied by feveral knights, themayor, fheriffs, and aldermen of thecity, with many other perfons of emi- ■nence and rank; in prefence of all whomhe was feated on the fonth bench of thegreat hall *, and either becaufe they withed the people to believe that he had af-pired to the crown of Scotland, or be-cairfe it was reported that he had for¬merly boafted that he had deferved towear a diadem, in that place they crown¬ed him with laurel, while Sir Peter Ma¬lory, the chief-juftice, impeached himof treafon. To this charge he boldlyreplied, “ That a traitor he never was,nor could be to the king of England.”The other crimes for which he was in¬dited, as burning of towns, florming ofcafiles, killing of t he Englifh, fce. &c.he frankly acknowledged, but deniedthat they were crimes, unlefs miftakenloyalty to one's natural fovereign, withdeference to whom, and in whole namehe ever acted—zeal for the juft rightsand liberties of one’s native country,by the community of which, he was cre¬ated a magiftrate -—and refilling the en¬croachments of a foreign governmentand tyrannical ufurpation—fhall deferve 'to be branded with that tdious name.However, thefe heroic virtues were votedcrimes; and the prifoner, notwithftand-ing he had never acknowledged or fub-24-- mitred to the laws of England, was triedby them, «nd condemned' to be hanged,drawn, and quartered, and, whilft alive,to have his bowels cut out; all whichwas executed with the utmoft feverity,or rather relentlefs barbarity.It is doubtlefs if ever any country pro¬duced a hero fimila* to Wallace. Wal-lace, only a private gentleman, the fec-ond brother of a Scots laird, who, tho'he had martial England to contend with,and ambitious Edward, who had fpread iiterror in other nations by the power of his Jarms—wrought the falvation of his coun- itry, and refeued its liberties, its ancient jrights and privileges from the clfe certaindeftruction which brooded over them; |with few of the nobility and commonaltyto fupport or efpoufe his caufe, till by ex- |ploits incredible for their greatnefs he fwrought them into a belief, that under jhim they would prove invincible. Noman ever attempted more than he; yetnone was more cautious, or better under-Hood the arts ot ftratagem. Untutoredhimfelf, he taught the whole nation tobe ioldiers, and difeiplined them fo ad¬mirably, that, had it been thought pro- Jper to have carried on his plan, Scotland fcould always afford at -leall thirty thou- jfand men, ready for any enterprife what- jever, and that too without being charge- jable to the government, or depopulatingthe country.    ».*-TflE END..