v. ,SINNER’S SOBS,OR, THEWay to SionA SERMON.DEMONSTRATINGTHE ABSOLUTE NECESSITY OFTrue Godly Sorrow,I FOR THE SINNER’S SAFETY.BY THE REV. THOS. BOSTON.I : : ■'THE SINNER’S SOBS,OR, THEWay to Sion’s Joy.Wets ii. 17. None tehen they heard this theynr were pricked in their hearts^ and said toIj, Peter and the other Apostles, Men andl| brethren, what shall we do to be saved lIN this chapter you have an account of' the effects of the Apostle St Peter’sumous sermon; having told the Jewsi the verses before my text, that they were*\e men that had crucified the Lord of life,id shed the blood of the Son of God thattey had consented to it and imbrued theirands in it. This stung their consciences,id pricked their hearts; the'arrows of4the Lord, which the Apostics ..had shot ee- jcretly into their souls came home to theirhearts and consciences, that they could bearno longer; but came to Peter and the resv,and said, What shall we do to be saved !The doctrine which I would briefly speak jof from these words is this :Doctrine an unfeigned sorrow and con-;trition of heart, convinced of God’s hatred'of sin, is absolutely necessary to salvation.‘ ' sThis is that we call the beginning of the;work of grace, even in the bruising of a*sinner’s heart, under the sense of any sia,committed.To prove this to be absolutely necessaryto salvation, not only scripture, but reason,will teii us. For Scripture see the 1 Cor.vii 10. Godly sorrow causeth repentanceunto salvation. And as the prophet Davidin the bitterness of his spirit, said, Thoi >.keepest naine eyes waking, and my sin isever before me. If the Lord loves a sinnei ftand means to do him good, he will not let ■the sinrier alone in his own sinful course^ tbut will free him from his den, bruise andbeat him as in a mortar. What caused Da- ;■vid’s sorrow but his sin? He needed no re-istoring had he not been degraded.5Well, then, is this a woik of grace! Islis contrition and sorrow for sin, a begin-ji iing of repentance; then it must needs beiff great necessity to salvation.I Now, that something may be hinted toI >ut sinners in a way t® this unfeigned sor¬row, let me beg of you, in the bawels of(rove, earnestly desiring your souls welfare,o meditate seriously on these three things,it .vhich will if set home by the spirit of God,‘ nelp you to the after work, even hearty sor-| ow and true contrition.I. Look over your past life, and labourco see the goodness and patience of God>Who hath been abused and despised by thatunkind dealing of yours. Oh souls! re-nember the days of old, and reckon upJed's gracious dealings with you. Wereyou ever in want, who supplied you; Wereyou ever in weakness, who strengthenedyou; in sickness, who cured you; in mise¬ries, who succoured you; in poverty whoRelieved you; Was it not the Lard:' Andhow cah you forget him, who forgot notyou in your low estate; Will ypu rewardthe Lord thus,, What shall 1 say of you;[Hear, O heavens, and hearken O earth,fl’he ox knoweth his owner, and the ass InsGin aster’s* cri», & will you not acknowledgeGod’s kindness and goodness to you? Lookinto your houses, go to your tables and bedsand say, .who gives these, and continuestheai to us? doth not the Lord? and1 yet ye j|sin against this God! Certainly, my friends,,erious meditation on this must break the ;heart, and cause sorrow for sin! But,fl. If the mercy, goodness and long pa¬tience of God will net move nor melt you.Consider that God is just too, if mercy can¬not prevail, you will have justice enough,l ake heed, O hard hearted and undauntedsinners,' the jusflaw contemned, and theserighteous statutes that hath been broken,and that God that hath been provoked by j•you and will be revenged of you. Where’sNimrod and Nebuchadnezzar, Pharoah & ;Herod, and all these proud persons that set 'ltheir mouths against God and their hearts Iagainst heaven, what is now become of '!them! they are n,nv in the bottomless pit of'hell,., r . . .. rs the apostle saith, Our God is a con-sunytng fire, Heb, xiii. 29. And if my firebe .kindled it shall burn to the bottom ofhell. Meditate then on’’the justice of Godlest thou 'art called to the bartoo soon to answer'for thy sins, andtertain-7^seriaus meditation here must needs pro-|e an unfeigned contrition.|l. Meditate on the cost and punishinent'pin'. Consider, O stubborn iinner, whatI sin cost you! namely, those tof-IJfltS' that cannot be conceived. 'Hath not|l God of heaven and earth, with all his-Ipbutes, passed before you, viz. his long-iiifering-, hath not all these come to your,pints and whispered in your ears, and said| ouaty hath kept you, patience hath borne|h you, long-suffering hath endured yoif,j|rcy. hath relieved you, the goodness ofId hath been gracious to you ' All theseII bid you all adieu, and then you will betenced to the bottomless pit, where thyapanions will be devils, horror the lan-ige, brimstone and fire the torture, andirna! death the soul’s eternal life. Cer-ily, my friends, serious meditation onmust break the heart, and cause sorowif hat a terrible day shall this be whenJpu shall leave this mansion and enter i-a-Jan unknown region i Who can defendle from those hellish monsters.'1 God istensed, hell prepared, justice threatened,llljtmercy must prevent or the soul is dam-id.. O rsissrhble news the soul committed8sin. But to give you some reasons why!•there must be this piercing and wounding'of souls for sin.1 Reason. Because sin is the greatestevi! of the soul, and the greatest burden al¬so; that is most grievous which is mostheavy Now as there is no evil so proper¬ly and directly evil to the soul as the evil ofsin is, so there is nothing that can properlydo the soul good but God. Now while asinner cannot see his sin he cannot sorrow!for his sin. Now it is a godly sorrow that;®causetTi repentance unt6 life, as you mayiisee in 2 Cor vii. 10 And assured'y the*soul that sees not the evil of sin, shall fall1by the eVi! of punishment:2 Reason, ‘ Why unfeigned sorrow andf!cc.itrition o* heart for sin is necessary tosalvation/ Because by sound sorrow the'sou! is truly prepared and fitted for JesusChrist, as you may see in the Prophet Jer^xi. 3. Plow up the fatfen ground of yourhearts, and sow not among thoriis; Whatis it else, but to have the heart pierced with!the terrors of the Lord, by a sound savi gsorrow for sin. « Plow up the corruptions]which are the' thorns and thistles in yourhearts/ as the Prophet David saith, Psairtiili. 27. ’Pis a broken and a contrite heart,j9O God, thou wit not despise. The hearti must be broken all to pieces, beaten toi'powder, a!id must be content to be weanedii!from all sin, which is the way to be .fittedji for Jesus Chri.t.3 Reason. The sou! cannot part with Us; sins and lusts, which is its god, until hefind himself wearied with them, and as; gall and wormwood to him; and now thisfi weariedness and burden of sin, must needscause in the sou! a sound sorrow f©r it, be-ii'fore the soul sees the venomous and ugly| nature of it, he is not wailing to part withj it. Go to pull away the adulterer’s whore.,and the drunkard’s pots, you had as good got$ kill them: the reason is begause they findI sw eetness in those base courses, and theyare all, their delight. But now wheu theLord comes to lay a. heavy, weight, on thisman’s shoulders than those wicked sins,Which were so sweet before, lie. finds themnow as bitter as gall and WQronv6od} andnow he lies down in sorrow, and erica ouf,‘ ,Oh is sin such a deadly killing evil, as itwill certainly destroy body and soul in Ih U.i and is there no entering info heaven withthe guilt of these upon my soul. OhGood Lord, do what thou wilt with me,only take my sou! and save me, and^take"away my lusts and corruption.Iran ■me/10Thus have you briefly the reasons of tbprint that this is the way of God’s workinjthat sorrow and contrition of heart for siis the way to conversion from sin, and'turning to C*od. I now proceed, toapplication.The first shall be for instruction.The second for reproof and compla’r.tThe third for exhortation.Use 1. It is so that this-sorrow, undithe harden and weight of sin, will pierceman’s soul to the quick, and grinds him ;it were to powder, being run through t• the ■arrows of the almighty, and that it isso great necessity to be humbled andgrealy sorrowful for sin. Then let this teach■now to carry themselves one towards atither, and to such as God hath dealt thiwith having their souls pierced. O do ycpity them They lie down in sorrow, ethe bread of adversity, and drink the watof affliction, have compassion on therSee what the Lord says, Deut. xxii.Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ox nor bsheep go astray and hide thyself from therthou shalt in any case bring them again utto thy brother.And henceforth the Lord command^II3i mercy to be shewn to the unreasonableCreature that is wearied with the weight heDarries. Hath the Lord care of oxen, and OisHlt thou help to ease the herd of thy bro-Hther, that is thus tried with the wrath ofi the almighty! Do you see and cannot motrni for them, pray for them, and speals in thebehalf of distressed souls. See what Jabsaith, Chap. xix. 11. 22 23. Oh, saith he,j that my sorrows wero all weighed theyf would preve heavier than the sands, Asif he had said, • O my friends, have pityupon me! What have you no regard for ai man in misery! Have you no pity, though'I be cry in bitterness of his soul,, he'p, he p,"I for the Lord’s sake !’ O, pray for and pity1 those wounds and vexations of spirit which:| no man feels but he that is thus wounded.I The poor man lies crying under the burdenI of sin, sighing and saying, Oh, when willI God revive his drooping soul! Certainly it! would make one's heart bleed to hear thesounding away of such a man, that th.ssword of the almighty hath . pierced hisheart, and he lying breathing out his sor-' row as though he was going down to hell.It is a sign that soul is marked for destruc-' tionof himself who harboureth such a des--< perate design against poor wounded sou!^.; Oh! could you. see Job air smitten withbroils, he lying miserably forlorn in tleye of men; and would you not lend him''hand nor a mouth to help him. CaayO .endure to see them pricked to the hearroaring and staring under ihe heavy yoH ;, and burden of their sins, crying out, Wh; isharU we do to be saved; O what shall w ■do* to escape helh and damnation, and thos iunsupjJbttable and unquenchable flames q ,• the wrath of God. Canst thou stand still/ and say or do nothing, or rather, canst tho ’ •u^raid thern, O soul, assuredly the Lori ,will remember thee in the day of thy deSt|an^f as thoi^hast shewn no mercy, so shalthou, receive no mercy ip that day, sue!willing ‘and violent opposers of God*grace, the; Lord will bring them one dajon a bod-of •langutshmg, and make then*roar by foyce, under the violence of hitwrath, ‘ O friends, be troubled at otherjitroubles, and mourn in secret for all themthat mourn under the terrible burden o|their'$if),hUse 2. A nd here let me make a lametitaition, in the nature of reproof, against t&jsecure souls in this generation wherein welive : the Lord be merciful unto a world offmen, that live within the bosom of thechurch. O that we had a fountain of tearsto bewail this ago, in this respect, as Dio-*13gents went about Athens with a lanthorn &candles at noon-day seeking honest men,sa should a minister go from country tocountry, and from shire »o shire. O howfew would he find mourning for sin ; Sin‘is so far from being a burden to them, thatit is their sport and pastime, just Esau like.What did he when he had eat and drank;j he? rose up to play, Gen. xxv. Mow few a^e^ there like Ephraim, who smite upon their!thigh, a'lid cry out, What have I done.Men' upon their ale-benches can cwear,drink, rail against God, and defy the HolyOne ef Israel. O how few rail againsttheir sins, and wish the death and destruc¬tion of them. How fujy cry out, Men andbrethren, what shall we do to l^e-saved; but■ on the contrary. O that it were soundlylamented for and reproved. Many do des-pight to the spirit of grace, - and glcry ithese things fur which they h:<ve cause tobe ashamed. • Says the vile swearer, Ihaveswore such a man out of his house, hfoith-the drunkard, I have drank such a man un¬der the table dead.O sim .s! pray read thar place of theapost'e, and there you may see yrur ddom,I speak to impudent and incorrigible sut¬lers, 2 fh^s. ii. 12, That all will be damn¬ed who believe not the truth, but haveplea-ure in unrighteousness. These • words14should shake one’s heart to think on themjland the Lord in mercy look upon you, analmake sin as loathsome and bitter to you a!j|ever it hath been sweet and pleasant Ohllsport not with sin. Consider that DivesJ!for a drunken feast here had a dry feast iiljhell, and could not get one drop of watelftto Cool his-tongue. So will it be with you! ■'you must either repent and mourn for sirlpor e’se burn for ever. What wilt thoudc ?.Oj-nan, when God shall come to tear the i*in pieces, and there be none to help; whe |God shall grant the devil leave to take the »into his accursed mansions, and there shm tthou lie, weeping and gnashing of thy teet ffor ever; thou tl^re shall lie blasphemin iwith God’s wrath like a pile of fire upc it:thy son!, burning with floods and seastears, which th- u mayest shed but shall nver quench it. Which way soever theiookest, thou shalt see matter and causeeverlasting grief. Look up to heaven, arthere thou shalt sea O/ that God is got bfor ever. Xook about thee, and thou shs Stsee devils quaking and cursing God; at fthousands, nay rniliions of sinful danuj D ,creatures crying and roaring out with do! biul shrieks! “ O rbe day that ever I w 1born-,’ Look within thee, there is a guil i;conscience continually gnawing thee; Lo t; jon the time past, O -those goUien days '>15■J grace and sweet seasons of mercy are-gone,I Look to the time to come, and there shait.1 thou behold devils, troops and swarms ofti sorrows and woes, and raging waves, andi billows &f wrath coming roaring on thee.•• Fly from it, O fools, before you feel it, be-i waii yourselves, be S' rry, grieve & mourn,.> humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord,be pricked to tke heart; go tell God you, cannot bear your >ins, they are too heavyfor you, much more the punishment; com=i plain to him whoisable to ease you. O vexj not the righteous soul ef the godly from day: to day, neither grieve the holy spirit of Godi but be convened that ye may live Cry| mightily to the Lord, peradventure he may.| hear and forget and forgive all your provo-ij cations; weej5 that y. u have not lamentedJ more; and grieve that you have not grieved.1 more for sin.!' Use 3, Is of exhortation, to exhort andi beseech poor unconverted sinners that aref under the command of the prince of thepower of the air, who are strangers to Godand aliens to the covenant of promise, whohave lived all this while without God in theworld to come in hither, and take the rightway to bring your hearts to a right pitchof sorrow. Let me tell you it will neverrepent you at the last day, that you havemm16had'your heart humbled, it will never repent you that you have w;ept, when oublessed Saviour Jesus'Christ comes to wip ljaway all tears from your eyes. Hear wha ’our blessed Saviour saith, Mat. v. 4. Bleded are all they that mcurn for they shall bcomforted. Is it not better to endure a littie torment here for a small time than to .b 1tormented in hell fire for ever? O therefor jif you desire ever to see the face of Gowith comfort, and to have Christ speak fc 1yOu, break your hearts with sorrow for si:For the Lord's sake do not cozen ycurselveIt is not only the tears of the Oye, but th ‘blood of the heatt your sins'must cost, ar ;till you come to this never think your so:row is good. This sorrow consists, not i: Jla bare reading of ganvtenls, or change of ajpare!, or denying themselves those outwar ;ornaments, as some "ueople of late days d 1foolishly conceive, who had been filled witdesperate hypocrisy, having left cff here, igone no further; but ye.u must break, b 'your hearts, wound yourse vcs here, and b ! rdriven iiito amazetrent for sin, orelse ’twilive with yoii here and in hell too. O ther«fore when God btv ins to werk, follow thblow, and say with the prophet David, Pxxiii. 2. Our eyes wait upon the Lord ptGod, until that he have mercy upon in. Get your consciences wounded, and reselvot to bear the counsel of carnal friends.Jo tkou and He at God’s footstool and con-i ;£6 thy sins before him, for it is he thatonfesseth and forsaketh all shall find merjl v, and ti-here there is this true and heartyonfession there must needs be a godly sor-ow for sin.- : To provoke you to it, let me leave youj a'o or three motives.■ 1. Consider it is not a vain thing that youre exhorted to, but that upon which thefe of your souls depends, for without a»orough sense and pricking at the heart forIn, there is no salvation from sin. He thatrould be Christ’s disciple, must leave all|e hath, father, mother, wife, children, allur's near and dear to him, and take up theI ross and follow Christ. He that would be; true convert must both confess and grieve' ir sin, as the prophet Ezekiel saith, Theynail ‘remember their ways that were not' ood, and shall he ashamed. O then beersuaded, .poor careless and lytregenerateuners to mind the check of yer conscience, dthiit you, and the clear perspicuous lightf the gospel without you; and. «ome a-tong the number of mourners to mournjr sin, You may msurn your -eyes outefeafteV, and answer do purpose; : BetterMEDIL' ATIONfQN THEFour Last Things,vizi— !;'lDEATH, JUDGMENT.HEAVEN, HELL.A MEDirATION ON DEATH, jI)eath, the old serpent’s son,Thou hadst a sting once like thy sire,, |That canrjn hell, and ever burning fire^iiiut th:-'Se black davs are o’er.tj "by foolib’i pride buried thy, stingj In the profound and wideWoumi of our Saviour’^ side,(. Id now thou art become a tame and harm-j A thing we dare not fear [less thing,I Since we hearjat our triumphant God to punish theeIt the affront thou didst him on the tree,th snatch’d the keys of hell out of thy handinortei at the gate of life thy mortal enemy.( hou who art thy gate, command that heMay, when we die,And thither flee,fr us into the courts of heaven through thee.Hallelujah.ON JUDGMENT.Ireat Judge of all, how we vile wretchesOur guilty bones do ake, (quake,Our marrow freezes when we thinkAnd horrid phials thou shalt makeThe wicked drink,hou the wine press of thy wrath sbalt tread,With feet of lead,And made thee standOf the consuming fireOf thine ire.22Sinful rebellious clay, what unknown place JfShall hide it from thy face,When earth shall vanish from thy"sight;The heavens that never err'd.But observ'd (flight.Thy laws, shall from thy presence take their fAnd, kill'd with glory, their bright eyes start ii,Start from their head; (deac ILord how shall we,Thy enemies, endure to seeS» bright, so killing majesty;Mercy, dear Saviour, thy judgment seatWe dare not, Lord, intreat;We’re condemn'd already there.Mercy, vouchsafe one lookOf life; Lord, we can read thy saving Jesus ■And in his name our own salvation see [here iLord set us free;The book of sinIs cross’d within.Our debts are paid thee.ON HEAVEN.O beauteous God, upcircumscribed treasureOf an eternal pleasure;Thy throne is seated farAbove the highest star.Where theu’st prepar'd a glorious place,Within the brightness of tby face,For every spiritTo inherit,23t builds his hopes on thy merit,ji loves dice with a holy charity,it ravish’d heart, seraphic tongue ©r eyes,Clear as the morning’s rise.Can speak or think or seeThat bright eternity.: ’ ere the great king’s transparent throneii t an entire jasper stone;There the eyeO’ the chrysolite.And a skydiamonds, rubies, chrysoprase;»nd above all thy holy face,jlakes an eternal charity,jen thou thy jewels ^ dost bind, that dayi! Remember us we pray,1'hat where the bervi lies.And the crystal ’bove the skies,;re thou may’st appoint us place,i:hin the brightness of thy face;And our soulIn the scrolllife and blissfulness enrel,it we may praise thee to eternity.ON HELL.rrid darkness, sad and sore,And an eternal night;es and shrieks, and thousands more,In the want of glorious light;Every eorner hath a snakelo the accursed lake.m24Seas of fire, beds of snow.Are the best delights belovn;A viper from the fireIs his hire.That knows not moments from eternity.Spring of eternal lightjHallelujahs, hymns and psalms.And coronets of palmsFill thy people evermore.O mighty God,Let not thy bruising redCrush our ioins with an eternal pressure^O let thy mercy be the measure;For if thou keepest wrath in store.We shall all die,And none shall be left to glorillThy name, and tellHow thou hast sav’d our souls from hell..Glorious God of day and night,- FINIS.