T ff EO R, T U EVIRGIN'S ADVICE.I N T vv O PARTS.Part I. Ifruj fair Rofanm of the City of Oxford, Vjat!>y a young Gentleman betray'd of her Virginity.Pakt II. His Cruelty in murdering her; and hoiv aRrJeJ,ufh fprmg upon her gravey which tkjjomdad the tear though ; and how the Murder cametr he f und, out, by his cropping the Rofe, &g.■i’ ■%}' { 1 )l' «. V X'; .» Atj. A>. AT *>»■ aV, *y >3^ /<> .s(i% -dfe. 3v •■"•' ^OXFORDSHIRE TRAGEDY.PART 2,'KT'OUNO Virgins fair of beauty bright,^ and you that <re of Cupid’s folc*,Onto my tragedy draw near.for it’s as true as e'er was told.In Oxford liv’d a Lady fairthe Daughter of a worthy Knight;A gentleman that lived near,was enamour’d witU her beauty brig^L-Rofanna was tins maiden’s name,the flower of fair Oxford (hire.This gentleman a courting came,begging her for to be his dearHer youthful heart to love inclin'd,young Cupid bent dns gol*. en now,And left his golden dart behind,prov'd lair Rofauna’s overthrow.‘Within the private proves they’d walk,and vallevs where the lambs do piav,Suecrt plcafant talcs C;f love they d ta-.v,for to pefs away the jum-mer’s day.My .charming lovely Role, faid he,fee how the plealant ilowers Iptmg,The pretty birds on ev’rylt^,fwith melody the groves do nag.! nothing want, for to delightmy foul, but thefe fweet charms of thine*Our hearts are fix’d, therefore my dear,like the turtle dove let us combine ;Let me embrace my heart’s delight,wittiin this plcaiant bower here.This bank of violets for cur bed,ihaded with thefe fweet roles fair.She faid, UThat can you mean, I pray ?i am a noble Lady born.What hgnili-s my beauty bright,that’s a tulle when my honour's gone.My parents they will me difuain,young virgins they will me ‘deride.Oh ! do not prove my overthrow,if you love me flay till I’m your bride.Sweet angel bright, f here do vow,by alt tae'Powers that are divine,I’ll ne’er for fake my dearest dear,you’re the girl that does my hear: confineAnd if you will me ftili deny,this fword (hall quickly end my woe.Then from her arras lie liew flraightway,in fury out his fword he drew.Her hands as white as lilies fair,moll dreadfully foe there did wring jShe faid. My death’s approaching near,ihould I take pity and comfort him,It only brings my lata! tall,it’s I that muff receive the wound.The crimfon dye foffook her cheeks,at*? feet fhe drepr upon the ground.Tims innocence he did betray.full (ore r.'-.air.ft her < hafte 'defirc,True Ic.ve is rdeitial charm.but ti e flames of luf’s a raging fire :But vvhen htr hives did reviv.-.he rarny vows and oaths did make,That he’d for ever true remain,her com-pany would not foi fake.t *4 + ^ i-1 i v r 1 + 11 -J"f -f 4f. J. ^P A R T II.T O W Virgins in the lecond part,;;d obferve this Lady’s iatai end.When or.ee your victae is betray’d,you’ve nothing young men wiii commend*?or after the traitor had bis „-iiJ,hv- neve r ci>u cotre near her more:find front her eyes both day and night,for his lake cryft.d tears did flow.into the mourning vahty fhe,would often wander aii alone,W.d for the jewel that (lie loft,in the bower thus would often mourn,) that ! was fo-rne pretty bird,that I might fly to hide my (haine j?h ! filly maid for to believe.all the fair dciunoAs of a nanho harmkfs Iambs can fport and play,,the. turtV cot til tint to his mate j ■- r 7Nothing fo wrenched i:; as F,to lovo a roan that doth me hate ;will a htter to him lend.r rememb’nng ol the oaths he made,\ithm the plea fa tit bow r, where,my render heart nc fir-ft betray’d.ier trembling hand a letter wrote.‘ My deare'l; dear, what molt 1 do?Ala1:! What have 1 done, that l‘ am ferl'ak.n and forgot by yrm ?I could nave many a Lord of fame,‘ who ii‘tle knov s mv miierv ;I .did forfaite a worthy Knight,‘ bis aU for love.I bear to thee,And now my little infant fen,‘ wilt quickly fpresd abroad ny ihame ;Or.e line of comfort to me fend,or by your cruelty Pm 11 a in *?his anfwer he to her did fend.‘ Vour in foie nee amazes me.To thinit tltat l fhoulj marry one.* with whom before f had been free !Indeed Pll not a father be,1 to any baftard you will bear vSo take no further thought of me,’ no more from you, pray let me hear.'A'hcrt fhe tin:; letter did receive,foe wrung her hands and wept full fore,IvA cv’ry day fhe Itill would range,to lament wiihin that pleafont bow’r.The faithlefs wretch be^an to think,how noble were her parents dear jHe faid, I hire fh'll, punilh’d be,foon as the ftory they coine to heart jSo then the Devil he dtd begin,to enter iu his wretched nund :Her precious life he then mull have,thus he to aft the thing did find.He many times had watch’d her out,into the pieafant valley, whereOne day he privately did go,when he knew the Lady was not there,“And privately he dug a grave,underneath an oaken tree ;Then in the branches he did hide,for to aft this piece jof cruelty.Poor harmlefs foul file nothing knew,as ufual fhe went there alone,And on a bank of violets, file,in a mournful manner fat her down;Of his unkindneis did complain,at length- the grave fhe did dpy.She rofe indeed to view the fame,little thinking he wras fo nigh:You gentle Gods, fo kiftd, faic! fhe,did you this grave for me prepare!He then defeended from the tree,faying, Strumpet, now thy death is nea?O welcome, weborne, {he reply'd,L as long as by ygur hsnd i die iI’m rc;idy, ufe your cruelty.But may the Heavens bring to lightthy crime, "and thus let it appearWinter and Summer on this grave.may the damafic rofe in bloom ipriug here.Never to wither, though its cropp'dbut when thy hand doth crop the fame.Then may the bloom that minute Wait,to bung to light thy bitter Ihamc.Mo-e (he'd have faid, but with his Bvord,he yi-rc’d her tender body through,Then threw her in the blent grave,faying, Now thete is an end of you.He ftll’d the grave c’of- up again,wba weeds the fame did overfptead.Then unconcern’d he ttr^ight went home,immediate*’/ went to his bed.Her parents dear, did grieve full fore,the lofe of their young daughter dear,Thinking that (he was dole away,unto ail the riches (he was heir.Twelve months ago this thing was done,there’s thoufands for a truth doth knowAccording as (he did denre,on her grave a datnaik.rofe did grow.And many wonder’d at the fame,for all the winter it did iprmg >If any one would crop the Rote,in a moment it dd grow again.>miracle from Heaven Ibo-o ;fie amongft the reft muft c.. .ous berIo po ?.nd fee if this v*as true,and When ur to the place he came,1 !le hrMtecus Hole he faw in bloomand eagerly he crept the fame:i he leaves did fall from off the buffi,the Kofe within his hand did die ;Hint'd ’Hs fair Rofanna*s blood,that did fpring from her fair body.Many people that were there,took notice of what he did fay,They to^ he had fome murder done,he tne truth confcfs’d without dcisy.I hey dng, and found the body there"the. firlt or April it was known:Uefore a Magiftrate he was brought, 'and now in pnibn lies forlorn.1 ill he his punifliment receives,no doubt but he wnl have his due :Young men by this a warning take,petfotm your vows where’er you do.For God does find out many ways,fucb heinous fins to bring to hgat,For murder is a hrying fin °and hateful in his bidled fight.Printed by J, and BbRobiitfon, Saltmarkct, t •>