T ii LH I S T O R YOF THELIFE and SUFFERINGS,OF the ReverenbJOHN WELCH.Sometime Minifler of the Gofpel at Ayr.TO WHICnis -UDDEDSome Prophetical J^kttfrs, Wrote byhim, wheil 'Prifoner inEDINBURGH and BLACKNESS Cables~ v be"Lifey m/ifcringr, 'anJ PrcphecksMR. John Welch was born a gentleman, his fatherbeing Faird of Coliefton, an eftate rather com¬petent, than large, in the (hire of Nithfdale about theyear i 570, the dawning of our reformation being thenbut dark. He was a rich example of grace and mercy,but the night went before the day, being a moft hope-lefs extravigant boy: it was not enough to him, fre¬quently when he was a young ftripling to run away fromthe fchool and play the trowant; but after he had pathhis grammar, and was come to be a youth, he left thefchool, and his father’s houfe, and went and joined him-felf to the theives on the Englifti border, who lived byrobbing the two nations, and amongft them he ftayedtill he fpent a fuit of cloaths. Then he was cloathedonly with rags, the prodigal’s mifery brought him tothe prodigal’s refolution, & he refolved to return to hisfather’s houfe, but durft not adventure, till he fhouldinterpofe a reconciler.* So in his return homeward, hetook Dumfries in his way, .where he had an aunt, oneAgnes Forfyth, and with her he diverted fame dayscarneftly entreating her^o reconcile him to his father.While he lurked in her houfe, his father came provi¬dentially to the houfe to falute hiscoufin’ Mrs. Forfyth ;and after they had talked a while, fhe afked him; whe¬ther ever he had heard any news of his fon John ; to herhe replied with great grief, O cruel woman, how canyou name his name to me ? The firft news I expeiR tojhear of him, is, that lie is hanged f*r a theif. Shean-fwered, may a profligate boy had become a virtuous:man, and comforted him. He infilled upon his fadl■complaint, but afked whether (he knew his loft fon wasyet alive. She anfwered, Yes, he was, and fhe hopedhe (hould prove a better man than he" was a boy, ancwith that fire called upon him to come to his father.He came weeping and kneeled, hefeeching his father^for Chrift’s fake, to pardon his milbehavior, and deep¬ly engaged to be a new man. His father reptoachechim an threatened him. Yet, at length, by the boy’stears, and Mrs. Forfyth’s importunities, he was perfuad*cd to a ricenciliation. The boy entreated his father totf the Reverend Mr, John Welch. 3end him to the college, and thereto try his behaviour,nd if ever thereafter he (hould break, he faid he fliouldie content his father {hould difclaim him for ever : folis father carried him home, and put him to the col-ege, and there he became a diligent ftudent, of great:xpe£tation, and fliewed himfelf a fincere con-vert, andb he proceeded to the miniftry.His firft poft in the miniftry was at Selkirk, while hevas yet very young, and the country rude; while he washere, his miniftry was rather admired by fome, thaneceived by many; for he was always amended by themophet’s fhadow, the hateted of the wicked; yea, evenhe miniOers of the country, were more ready to pick aparrel with his perfon, than to follow his dodtrine, asmay appear to thisday in their fynodal records, where we!ind be had many to cenfure him, and only fome to de¬fend him ; yet it was thought his miniftry in that placewas not wi hout fruit, though he ftayed but ftiort timfe:here. being a young man unmarried, he tabled him-elf in the houfe of one Mitchelhill, and took a youngjoy of his to be his bed-fellow‘, who to his dying dayetained both a refpeft to Mr. Welch end his miniftry,'rom the impreffions Mr. Welch’s behaviour made uponiis apprehenfion, though but a child. His Cuftom wassh n he went to bed at night, to lay a Scots plaid abovesis bed-cloaths, and when he went to his night prayes,0 fit up and cover himfelf negligently therewith ; and0 to continue. For from the begining of his miniftiy0 his death, he reckoned the day ill fpent if he ftayediot feven or eight hours in prayer; and this the boymuld not forget even to hoary hairs.I had once the curiofity travelling through that town,3 call for an old man, bis name was Ewart, who te-icmbered upon Mr Welch his being in that place, andfter other difeourfes, enquired of him, what for a manIr. Welch was, his anfwer was, O Sir, he was a type of!hrift, an expieffion more frgnificant than proper, foris meaning was, that he was an example that imitated•hrift, as indeed in many things he did : he told meIfo, that his cuftom was to preach publickly once ere- y4 7), life, SuJ^rfng^anc^rophecie^^day, and to fpend his whole tiiiie in fpiritual exercifes,that fome in that place waited well upon his miniftnvith gteat tendcrnel's, bat that he was conftraiued tcleave that place, becaufe of the malice of the wicked.The fpecial caufe of his departure was, a prophanegentleman in the-country, (oncScot of Headfchaw,w'ho(ifamily is h' w extin£l) but becaufe Mr Welch had either reproved him, or merely from hatered Mr. Welclwas moft unworthily abufed by the unhappy man a,nr.qpgfts the reft of the injuries he did him this was on’Mr. Welch kept always two good horfes for his ufe, amthe wicked gentleman when he could do no more, e.tl-Cer with his own hand, or his fervants,cut off the rump<qf the two innocent hearts, upon which follow'ed fuel■tftufion of blopd, that they both died, which Mr Welc!did much refent, and fuch bafe ufage as this prCrfuadehim to liftc n to a call to the minilh y of Kircudbright.which was his next port..jj.jlut when he was to leave Selkirk, he could not fina pian in all the town to tranfport his furniture, excep.only Ewart, who was at that time a poor young man(but mafler of two horfes, with which he tfaniportecMr. Welch’s goods, and fo left him, but as he took hileave, Mr.: Welch gave him his bit fling, and a piece cgold for a token, exhorting him to fear God, and pronrifed he fliould never want, which pfomife, providencmade good thrpugh the whole coutfe of his life, as wacbferved by all his neighbours'I, At Kirkcudbright he flayed not long-; but there hreaped a harveft cf concerts, which fubfided long aftthis departure, and were a part of Mr. Samuel Rutheifoord’t flock, tho* notin his p uifh, while he was rmniftat Anwith : yet when.hiff call to'Ayr came to him, tlpeople of the parifti of Kirkcudbright never offereddetain him, fo his tranfportation to Ayr was the mo? .eafy.While he was inKirkcudbrighr, he emet with a yout tgallant in fcarlet ; nd filver late (the g mieman’s nat :was Mr. Robert Glendoning: new come home fremf ftr..v.ls, and much fwrprized the ycurg man by teftiof the Reverend Mr. John Welch. 5him, he behoved to change his garb, and way of life,and betake himfelf to tbe ftudy of the feriptures, whichat that time was not bis bufinefs, for he (hould be hisfacceffor in the miniftry at KirkcudbrightjwlMch accord1^ingly came to pafs fometime^thereafter.Mr. Welch was tranfported to Ayr in the year 1590.ind there he continued till he was banifhed, there he hadi very hard beginning, but a very fweet end ; for whenhe came fiift to the town, the country was fo wic'ked,{tnd the hatred of godlinefs fo great, that there could notpne in all the town be found, that would let him a hov.fe©dwell in, fo he was conftrained to accommodateiiimfclf in the bed he might, in a part of a gentleman’s\ loufe for a nme. the gentleman’s name was John Stew¬art merchant, and fometimes provoft of Ayr, an emt-Jpeiu Ch'ri \ :an, and a great affidant of Mr Welch.| And when he had firll taken up his refidence in that|own, the place was fo divided into fa&rons, and filledjkrith hlopdy confli£ls,a man could hardly walk the ftreetsftith fafety ; wherefore Mr Welch made it his firft un-llertaking'to remove the bloody quarrelings,but he foundt a very difficult work ; yet fuch was his earnedriefs- tourfue his defign, that many times he would rufh ibe^wixt two parties of men fighting, even in themkiftofIdod and wounds. He ufed to cover bis head w-ith afead piece, before he went tofeperate thefe bloody ebo¬nies, but would never ufe a fword, that they might fe*e came for peace and not for war, and fo by little' andtrie he made the town a peaceable habitation- bibHis manner was, after he bad ended a fkirmifh amongfti? neighbours,- and reconciled thde bitter encihies," tomfe cover a t^ble upon the ftreet, and there broughtre enemies together, and beginning with pi ayer h®erfuaded them to-profefs thcmfdves-friends, and theni eat and drink- together, then lait of all, he ended theork with fmging a pfidrn : for after the rude people;gan to obferve his example, and Men to his heavenlyi&rine, he came quickly to that rcfpetl amongft them*lat he became not only a neceflary counfellor, without' hofe advice tltcy would do nothing.6 7he Life, Sufferings, and PropheciesHe gave himfelf wholly to minifteriar exercifes, h>preached once every day, he prayed the third part of hi)time, was unwearied in his (Indie", and for a proof o:this, it was found among his papers, that he had abiidged Suarez’s metaphyfics, when they came firfl to hihand, even when he was well llricken in years. By alwhich, it appears, that he has not only been a man ogreft diligence, but alfo of a flrong and robuft naturaconflitution, otherwife he had never endured the fatigueBut if his diligence was great, fo it is doubted whether his fowing in painfulnefs, or his harveft in his fuccefs was greatell ; for if either his fpiiitual experience,in feeking theLord, or his fruitfulnefs in converting foulbe confidered, they will be found unparalleled in Scotland: and many years after Mr. Welch’s death, MrDavid Dickfon, at that time a flourifhing minifter aIrvine, was frequently heard to faiy, when people talkecto him of the fuccefs of his miniftry, That the graptgleanings in Ayr, in Mr. Welche’s time, were far abovethe vintage of Irvine in his own. Mr. Welch in hipreaching, was fpiritual and fearching, his utterance tenderand moving; he did not much infill upon Icolaftiipqrpofes, he made no Ihew of his learning. I heard onctonCi of his hearers (who was afterwards minifter aMoor kirk in kyle) fay, That no man could haidly heahim, and forbear weeping, his conveyance was fo affe£l.ing. There is a large volume of his fermons, now inScotland but never any of them came to the prefs, no Idid he ever appear in print, except in his difpute wit! iAbbot Brown the papift, wherein hi makes it appearhis learning was nor behind his other virtues : and iianother.piece called Dr. Welch’s Armagaddo, printedI fuppofe, in France, wherein he gives his meditatioiupon the enemies of the church, and their deftruttiom ,hut the piece itfelf is rarely to be found.Sometimes.before he went to fermon, he would fen*for his elders, and tell them, he was afraid to go to puli.p;t becaufe he found himfelf fore deferred ; and therea ter defire one or more to pray, and then he would verrture to pulpet. But, it was obfeived, this humbling ex-ef the Reverend Air. John Welch. 7I ercife irfed ordinarily to be followed, with a flame ojI extraordinary afFiftance : fo hear neighbours arc many1 times contraoy difpofuions and frames. He would manyI times retire -to the church of Ayr, which was at fomeI didance from the town, and there fpend the whole nightin prayer : for he ufed to allow his affe&ions full ex-: predion, and prayed not only with audible, but fome»times, loud voice, nor did he irk, in that folitude, alli the night over, which hath, it may be, occafioned the] contemptible dander of fome malicious enemies, whowere fo bold as to call him no lefs than a witch.There was in Ayr, before he came to it, an aged man-a minifter of the town calledPoi terfield,the man was judg¬ed no bad man, for his perfonal inclinations, but io eafy' a difpofition, that he ufed many times to go too great alenght with his neighbours in many dangerous pardhices;! and among(l ihe reit, he ufed to go to the bow-butts andi archery, on Sabbath afternoon, to Mr. Welch’s greratdif-fatisfaCtion. But the way he ufed to reclaim him, wasnot bitter feveriry, but this getnle policy ; Mr. Welch to¬gether with John Stewart, anduHtgh Kennedy, his twointimate friends, ufed to fpend the Sabbath afternoon irtreligious conference an prayer, and to this exercife theynvited Mr. Porterfield, which he c.mld not refufe, bywhich mea . he was not only diverted from his former- inful pradfice, but likewife brought to a more watchful,t ind edifying behaviour in his courfe of life.i-1 He married Elizabeth Knox, daughter to the famous'Vlr John Knox, minifter at Edinburgh, the apoftie of: icotland, and Ihe lived with him from his youth till his!eath. By her I have heard he had three _fons: therft was called Dr. Welch, a dodfbr of medicine, whoras unhappily killed upon an innocent miftake iu theow countries, and of him I never heard more. Anothron he he had moft lamentably loft at fea, for when tirehip in which he was, was funk, he fvvam to a rock inae fea, but ftarved there for want of neceflary food andelreftimcnt, and when fometime after ward his body/as found npon the rock, they found him dead in apoftuie upon his bended knees, with his handS The Life, Sufferings, and propheciesWretched out, and this was all the fati$fa£tion his friendsand the world had upon his lamentable death, fo bitterto his friends, another he had who was heir to his fa¬ther’s grace and blefiings, and this Mr. Jofias Welch,minifter at Temple Patrick in the north of Ireland,.commonly called the cock of the conference by the peo¬ple of that country, becaufe of his extraordinary waken¬ing and ronzing gift : he was one of that bleft fcocietyofjtrinifters, which wrought that unparralleled.work in thenorth of Ireland, about the year 1636, but was himfelfa man moft fadly exercifed with doubts about his ownfalvation all his time, and would ordinarly fay, That mi¬nifter was much to be pitied, who was called ro comfortweak faints and had no comfort himfelf. He died in hisyouth, and left-for his fucc-efibr, Mr. John Welch minifterat Iron Gray in Galloway, the place of his grandfather’snativity. What bufmefs this made in Scotland, in thetime of the late Epifcopal perfecuticn, for the fpacc oftwenty years, is known to all Scotland. He mantainedhis dangerous poft of preaching the g-ofpel upon themountains of Scotland,notwithftandfngof the threatning^of the ftate, the hatred of the bifhops, the price fet upon;his head, and all the fierce induftry of his cruel enemies,It is well known th .t bloody claverhoufe upon fecret in¬formation from his fpies, that Mr. John W ;'ch was tobe found at fome lurking place at forty pailes diftanceJwould make all that long journey in one .-inter’s nightj. that he might catch him, but when he came he alwaysmiffed his prey. I never heardof a roan that endurcdljmore toil,-adventured upon more hazards, efcaped fcmuch hazard,not in the world. He ufed to tell hisfrienohwho counfelled him to be more cautious ar.dnotto ha>zarihimfelf fo'much, That he firmly believed dangeroiuundertakings would be his fecurity, and when ever hiYhould give over that, courfe and retire himfelf, his miniftry fhould come to an end-, which accordingly came ijpafs, for when after Bothwel bridge, he retried to Lon¬don, the Lord called him by. death, and there he W'Jhonourably buried, nfct far from the king’s p dace.But to 'return t© our old Mr.. Welch ; as the dutyj[''’herein he abounded and|reateft attainments fell that way. He ufed to ^yj Hewondered how a Chriflian could ly in bed all nig ht, an*|rot to rife to pray,and manytimes he rofe,and ma ytime'pe watched.' One night he rofc from his wife,and wentInto the next room, where he flayed ioMcng at fecret|rayer,that his wife fearing he might catch cold,wascon-'urained to rife and follow him, and-as fhe hearkned,me heard him fpeak ashy interupted •fentences, Lordwilt thou not grant me Scotland,, and after a-paufe, £-iough, Lord, enough, -and fo fhfe returned to her bed,|nd he followed her, not knowing fhe had heard him, '»ut when he was by her, fhe afked him wjrat he me,artty faying Enough, Lord, enough, he fhewed himfekiflatisfied with her curiofity, but told her, he had beenirreftling with theLord forScothnd,and found there wasfad time at hand, but tiiat the Lord w’ould be gracious0 a remnat.. This,was about the time when bifliops firft'verfpread tbe land, and corrupted the church. This wasaore wonderful I am to relate, I beard once an honeltLuniiter, who was a parifbioner of Mr, Welch many:day, fay, That one night as he wat'ched in his gardenery late,and fome friends waiting upon him in hishoufend wearying becaufe of his long flay, one of them chan-ed to open a window toward the place where he walked,rid faw clearly a ftrange light furround him, and heardim fpeak ffrange words about his fpiritual: joy. I dp nei-rer add nor alter, I am the more itiduced to believe thisrat I have heard from as good a hand as any inScotland,lat a very godly man, though pot 3 minifter, after head fpeut a whole night in a country houfe,at the hoyfe1 the muir* declared confidently, he faw fuch an extraor*inary light as this himfelf,which was to him bothmattert wonder and aftonifhment. But thoqgh Mr. Welch*d'upcm the account of his hnlinefs, abilities} and fuc-tfs, acquired among his fubdtied people, a very greattfpefl, yet was he never in- fuch admiration, as after>e great plague which raged in Scotland in his^ime.And one catife was this : The magiff rates of Ayr,for-much as this town alone was free, and the country a-bout-infected, thought fit to guard the ports with cent*1- nels, and watchmen ; and one day two travelling me!chants, each with a pack of cloth upon a horfe, came rthe towndeiiring'enterance that theymight fell theirgoodproducing a pafs from the magiftratesof the town whencthey came, which was at that time found and free ; yenotwithftanding all this the centinels llopt them till thnaagiftrates were called ; and when they came, thewould do nothing without their niini(lei’s advice : fo MiWelch was called, and his opinion afked ; he demurre• and putting off his hat with his eyes towards heaven faa pretty (pace, though he utteaed no audible words, yrcontinued in a praying gefture : and after a little fpactold the magiftrates they would do well to difeharge the!travellers their town,affirming with great alfeveration,thplaguejwas in theft places, fo the magHtrates commandothem to be gone, and they went to Cumnock, a towifome twenty miles diftant, and there fold their goodswhich kindled fuch an infection in that place, that th'Hiving were hardly itble to bury their dead. This madthe people to think that Mr. Welch was an oracle. Yeas he walked with God, and kept clofe with him, ft- he forgot not man, for he ufed frequently to dine ahroat> with fuch of his friends, as he thought wereperfons wit!whom he might mahtain the comminion of faints ; anflt once in the year he ufed always to invite all his familfcaresin the town to a treat in his houfe, where there wa:-a banquet ofbclinefs and fobiiety.He continued the courfe of his minidry in Ayr, til!5 kingjames’s purpofe of deltroying the church ofScotland!, byeflablifhing biihops was ripe, and then it fell to be hi: .duty to edify the church by his lufferings, as formerlr.he had done by his dofdrineThe reafon why king james was fo violent for bifhops.was neither their devine inftitution,which he deniedthc^l-bad, nor yet the profit the chasrch fliould reap hy them,for he knew well both the men and their commmiica-tions, but merely becaufe he believed they were ufefulinftruments to turn a limited monarchy into abfolute do¬minion, fubje&s into Haves, the thing he minded mod.r,'f the Reverend Mr. Jolii) Wfciclli^ t\Always in the purfuit of his defign, he followed thismethod ; in the firft place he refolved to deftroy generalaffemblies: knowing well that fo long as aflsrmblu*might conveen in freedom, bilhopscould never get theirdetigned anthority ip, Scotland,and the difibhition ofaffemblies he brought .about in this manner.The general affembly at Holy-Rood Houfe in the year1602, with the king’s confenr, inditlith.eir next meetingto be kept at Abefdec.n>the laftTuefday-df July/in the year'160*, and before that day came, the king by his com-miflioner the laird of Laurefton,andMr.Patrick Gallowaymoderator of the lart general affembly,in a letter direct¬ed to the feveral Prefbyteries, continued the meeting tillthe firft Tnefday of July 160 ;,at the fame place ; loft ofall in June 1605, the expeCted meeting to have been keptin July following,is bya new letter from the king’s com-mifiioner,and the commiffioners of the general aft’embly,abfoluteiy difeharged, and prohibited, but without nam-I ing any day or place, for any other affembly; and (o the1 feries of our affemblies expired, never to rivive again indue form,till the covenant was renewed in the year 1638| However,many of the giodly minifters of Scotland,know-I ing welljifdnce thebedge of the government wasbroken,I the corruption of the dothine would foon follow,refolvedInot to quit their affemblies fo And therefore a number|of them conveened at Aberdeen, upon the HftTuefday of■July 1605,being the laft day that was diftindly appointed■by authority; and when they had met did no more butIcoftitute themfelves: and diflblve, and that was all A-mongft thofe was Mr Welch, who tho’ he had not beenbrefent upon that precife day, yet, becaufe he came toithe place and approved what his brethren had done,hewas accufed as guilty of the treafonable fad committedhis brethrenr So dangerous a point; was the name|f a general affembly .in king James’s jealous judgment.I Within a month after this meeting,many of thd'j1' ?J/men wereincarcerate.fome in oneptifon,fome in 'or ,Tl£ ’|lr. Welch was firft fent to Edinburgh tolbooth/1’ 76 -Gn,#Hi Blacknefs: and fo from prifon to prifon, till lme 0UHmiftied to France, never to fee. Scotland again.12 Thi Life, Safe rings, and Prophecies'.* And now the fcene of hi? life begins for to alter: lut,ibefore his bleffed fuflering?, he had this flrange warning.After the meeting at Aberdeen was over, he retiredimmediately to A-jr ; and one night he rofe from hiswife, and went into his garden, as his cuftom was, butwho, when he returned, expollulate with bim very hard,for his (laying lb long to wrong his health ; he bid her•be quiet, for it :Hiould be well with them. But heknew well, he flld'uld never'preach mere at Ayr ; andaccordingly before the next Sabbath, he was carriedprifoner to Blacknefs raffle. After that, he, withmany others who had met at- Aberdeen, were'broughtbefore the council of Scotland, at Edinburgh, to an-_ iwer-for their rebellion and contempt, in holding a ge¬neral aflembly, not authorifed by the king. And be¬cause they declined the fecret council, as judges compe¬tent in caufes purely fpirituul, fuch as the nature andconffitution of a general aflembly.is', they were firft re¬mitted-to the prifon at Blacknefs, and other places.Ai’.d thereafter, fix of the moft confiderahle of them,were brought under night from Blacknefs to Linlith¬gow before the criminakjudges, to anfwer an accufaji-on of high treafon, at the initance of Sir Thomas Ham- iikon, king’s advocate, for declining, as he alleriged, (the king's lawful authority, in refusing to admit the icouncil judges competent in the caufe of the nature of *church judicatories ; and after their accusation, and art* ifwer was read, by the verdict of a jury of very confiS tderable gentlemen, condemned as guilty of high treafon,, £;the punifliment cominued till the king’s pleafure fhouldi tbe known, and thereafter their punifhment was madebanifhmenr, that the cruel fentence might fomeway ti'eem to (often their fevero puuiilnnent as the king had 1connived it. [While he was in Blacknefs, he .wrote his famous let* Itions, tdame Lilias Graham, countefs of Wigtoun,, i:iinffrur.heie I have inferttd.minion,cf the HeveretCi Mr -r— —: Tke Confolations of the Holy Ghoft* be multiplied up¬on you, in Chrift Jefiir’s.OFTEN and manj times, Chri^ian and ele<fl lady, Ihave defired the-^opportunity to be comforted, with. that confolation, wherewith it bath pleafed God, of hisfree grace and marcy, to fill and furniih you. Your re-rmemhraftce is very fweet and comfortable to my veryifou! ; fince the firft time I knew you in Chrift Jefus, Ii have ever been mindful of you unto the Lord, and now,not being able to refrain anydonger, 1 could not omitthis cccafion; not knowing how long it may pleafe theil.Eord to continue my being in this taberpacle, or give['me further occafion of writing to any.Although I have not great matter at this time, yet inremembrance of your labour, of love, hope, and pari-ence, 1 muft needs falute your ladyfhip, knowing, alTu-red-ly, you are the chofen of God, fet apart before ever rheworld was, to that glorious and eternal inheritance. Be¬ing thus comforted in your faith and hope, 1 am fullyaflured tho’ we never have the occafion of meeting here,I yet we ftiall reign together in the world jto come,'My defire'to remain here is not great, knowing thatfo long as 1 am in this boufe of. clay, I am abfettt fromGod ; and if it were dillblvedj I look for a building net1 made with hands eternal in the heaven ; in this I groan,I defiling to be cloathed upon, with my hfihfe which isin heaven, if fobs that being cloathed,! fhsll not be ^umdnaked fi r I that am vvjthin this tabernacle, do oftengroan and figh within myfelf, being.ottentimes burden¬ed ; not that I would be unclear bed, but cloatbed upfinithat mortality might be fwallowed up of life- I long toeatof that tree w'hich is planted,in the mitfft of the pa-radile of God, and to drink of the pure river, clear ascryftal, that runs thro’ the ftreet of the New Jerufiilem.'I know that my Piedeemer liveth, and that he ihall ftandat the laft dayupon the earth. And though after rr-ylkinworms deftroy my body, yet in my flefh lhall I fee God,I whom 1 fhall fee for myfelf, and not another for. me ;I and’my eyes ftrall behold him, though my reins be con-| lumed within me. i long to be refreftied with the fouls-rV——Mffirtfigf^ana'Prdp.fasi'S iof them that are under the alter wha were flam for frhword of Qod, and tjre tefUmony they held; and to haMthefelong white r.obes given me,that I may walk in whitraiment, with thole glorious faints, who have wafhei ;their garments ind have made them white in the blood athe Lamb. Why fliould I think it a flrange thing,tobremoved from this place,,to that, wherein my hope, mjoy, my crown, my elder brother, fny head, my fathermy comforter, and all the glorious faints are ; and whet!the fong of Mofes and theLamb are fung joyfully; whenwe fhal! not be compelled to fit by the rivers of Babylonand to hang up our harps on the willow trees ; but Aral rtake them up ^nd fing the new hallelujah, blefling, hon*our, glory, and power to him that fits upon the throne,and to theLamb for ever and ever ? What is ther undetthe old vault of the heavens, and in this old worn earth,which is under the bondage of corruption, groaning andtravelling in pain, and (hooting out the head, looking,waiting, and longing for the redemption of the fons ofGod ; what is there, I fay, that fliould make me defire:to remain here ? I expe£f that new heaven, and that newearth, wherein righteoufnefs dwelleth ; wherin I fhall,reft for evermore. 1 look to get entry to the new Je-rufalem, at one of thefe twelve gates, where upon arewritten the names of the twelve tribes of the childrenof Ifarael 1 know that Chrift Jefus hath prepared themfor me. Why may I not then, with boldnefs in his blood,jftep into that, glory, where my head and Lord hath,,gone before me r Jefus Chiift is the door, and the por-,jter ; who then ftiall hold me out; will Re let them pe-jrifti for whom he died? will he let them poor fheep be:pluck’d out of his hand, for whom he hath laid done hislife ? who fhall condemn the man whomGod hath jufti-jfied ? who fhall lay anything to the chargeof the man for■w hom Chrift hath died, or rather rijen again ? 1 knowI have grievoufly tranfgrefted, but where fin abounded,,grace will fupperabound ; I know my fins are red as fear- ;let and crimfon, yet the red blood of Chrift my Lord,canmake them as white as fnow or wooll ; whom have T inheaven but him, or whom defire 1 in the earth befides~tTliim ? Pfal.Ixiii. 25. O thou thje fairetl amoncfl: tl;c ehil-dren of men, Pfal. xlv. 2. The light of the Gentiles,theglory of the Jews, the life of the dead, the joy of angelsand faints, my foul painteth to be with thee, I will putmy fpirit into thy hands, and thou wilt not put me outof thy prefence, I will come unto thee, for thou caftethnone away that cometh unto thee, O thou delight ofmankind? Thou camefl to feck and to fave that whichwas loft; thou fee king me haft found me, and now beingfound by thee, I hope, .O Lord thou wilt not let me pe*lifli, l defire to be with thee, and do long for the fiuti-tion of thy blefied prsfence, and joy of thy countenancetThou the only good ftiepherd art full of grace and truth;■ therefore, I truft, thou wilt not thruft me out of the doorof grace, the law was given by Mofes, but grace andtruth by thee: wholhall feperate me from thy love, flialltribulation, or diftrefs, or perfecution, or famine, or na-kednefs, or peril, or fword i Nay, in all thefe things, Iam more nor conqueror, through thy Majefty, who hath"loved me: for I am perfuaded, that neither death, norlife nor principalities, nor powers, nor any other crea-1 tore, is able to feperate me from the love of the majefty,which is in Chrift Jefus my Lord. I refufe not to dieI with thee, that I may live with thee. I refufe no to fuf-| fer with thee, that I may rejoice with thee Sail notall things be plefant to me, which may be the laft ftep,by which,and upon which,I may come unto thee ? When•{hall 1 be fatiate wii'n thy face ? when ftiall 1 be drunkrith thy pleafures ? Come, Lord Jefus, and tarry not.The Spirit fays, Gome . the bride fays, Come ; even foLord jefus come quickly, and tarry notWhyftiould the multitude of myiniquities or thegreat-nefs of (hem affright me ? why fhould I faint in this myI defire to be with thee ? The greater fniner I have been,the greater glory will thy grace be to me to all eternity.O unfpeakable joy, endlefs, infinite, and bottom 1 fs com-l.paffion ! Ofea of never fading pleafures ! O love of loves!TO the breadth, and bight, and depth, and length of thatilove of thine, that pafTeth all knowledge ! the love of Jo-ijnathan was great indeed unto David, it pafleth the loveTT—77,'.. . , ; •. /Jof wcman; but thy love, O Lortlf pafleth_a!I createtl lcve •O uncreated love ! Beginning without beginning, andending" without dnd. Thou atr my glory, my joy, and mygain, and my crown : thou haft fet me under thy fhadowwith great delight, and thy fruit is fweet unto my tafte ;thou haft brought me into thybanqueting houfe,and plac¬ed me in tby orchard ; ftny me with flaggons, and com¬fort me with apples, for lam frek, and my foul is wound¬ed with love. Behold thou art fair my love, behold thouart fair, thou haft doves eyes ; behold thou art fair mybeloved, yea, pleafant; alfoourbed is green ; the beamsof our houfe are cedars, and our rafters are of fir ; howfair and how pleafart art thou, O full of delights, myheart is ravifhed with thee : O when fttall I fee thy face !How long wilt thou delay to be with me as a roe, or ayoung hart,leaping upon the^ountains and flcipping up¬on theahills ; as a bundle of myrrh be thou to me, and lyall night betwixt my breafts ; becanfe of the favour ofthygotH ointments,thyname is as oi- rment pouted forth,therefore delire l to go out of this defet t, and to come tothe place where thou fitteft at thy repaft, and where thoumake-ft thy floeks.to reft atnoon. When fhall 1 be filledwith his’love ? Surely if a man knew how precious itwere, he would count all things drofs and dung to gain ‘it, truly I would long for that fcaffold, or that ax, or ,that cord, that might be to me the laft ftep of this mywearifome journey, to go ro thee my Lord. Thou.whofJ j' knows the meaning of the fpirir^give anfwef to the fpeak- I 1ing, fighing, and gi oartingof the fpirit. Thou who haft f .enflamed my heart to fpeak to thee m this fiient, yet love- jly language of ardent, and fervent'defmes, fpeak againunto m- heart, and anfwer my defires, which thou haft ;made to fpeak to thee, sCor. xv 5 5 O death whore is thy--fling, O grave where is thy vl£tory. What can be • ‘troublefbme to me. fmee my Lwi d looks upon me with fo | J "loving and amiable a couuibndnce, Snd how greatly do Ilong for thele embracements of m) Lor-d,0 that he would j ►kifs m : with tlie kiffes of his mouth, Cairt i. : For hislove i<j better than wine. O that mw foul were the throne .wherein he might dwell eternally ? O that my heart were -Iof the Reverend Mr John Welch. 17the temple wherein he might be magnified,and dwell forever i all glory be to my God ; angels and faints praifeye him ^ O thou earth; yea hills and mountains be glad}||you fhall not be wearied any more with the burden of8 corruption, whereunto you have been fubje£f thro’thewickednefs of fnankind Lift up your heads and be glad,j for a fire fhall make you clean from all your corruptionr and vanity, wherewith for many years you have been in¬fected. Let the bride rejoice, let all the faints rejoice,'par the day of the marriage with the bridegroom, even‘[the Lamb of God, is at hand, and his fair white robesj fhall be given her, fhe fhall be arrayed with the goldenjveltry and the needle work of his manifold graces thatI fhall be put under her; he who is her life, fhall quicklyappear, and fire fhall quickly appear with him, in thejjglory and happinefs of a confummate marriage.J, But I muft remember myfelf, 1 know l have been great*ly llrengthened by your prayers, (honourable lady, anddearly beloved in our Lord Jefus) continue 1 pray you, asyou have begun, in wreftling with the Lord for me, thatthrift may be magnified in my mortal body, whether liv¬ing or dead that my foul maybe lifted up to the third bea*livens, thatl may tafte of thefe joys that are at the tighthand of toy heavenly Father, and that with gladntfs Imay let my fpirit go thither where my body findl fhortlyfollow. Who am I that he fhould firft have called me,andthen conftitute me a minifter of the glad tidings of thegofpel of falvation thefe years, already, and now laft ofall to be a fufferer for his caufe, and kingdom. Now letit be fa, that 1 have fought my fight, and run my race,and now from henceforth is laid up for me that crown ofrlghteoufnefs, which the Lord that righteous God willgive, and not to me only, but to all that love his appear-iance, and ch< ofe to witnefs this, that Jefus Chri-ft Isthe king of faints, and that his church is a^flioft freekingdom, yea as free as any kingdom under heaveo, notoniy toccnvocate, hold and keep her meetings, and con¬ventions alrd-afi'emblies ; but alfo to judge of all her af¬fair), in all her meetings and conventions among ft hermembers arid fubjeds, Thefe two points; Fir ft, That18 The Life, Sufferings, and PrrphecieeChrift is the head of his church. Secondly, That {he isfree in her government from all other jurifdi£)ion exceptChrift’s , thefe two points, I fay, are the fpecia! caufc ofour imprlfonment, being now convitt as traitors for themantaining thereof; we have been ever waiting withjoyfulnefs to give the laft tedimonyof our blood in confir¬mation thereof, if it firouldpleafe our God to be fo favour-abl as to honour us with that dignity ; yea I do afirrm,that thefe two points above written, and all other things-which belong to Chrilt’s crown, fceptre, and kingdom,are not fuhjecl nor cannot be, to any other authority,but to his altogether. So that 1 would be mod glad tobe offered up as a facrifice for fo glorious a truth ; but,alas I fear my fins and the abufe of ;fo glorious thingsas I have found, deprive me of fo great a crown; yetmyLord.doih know,ii hefhould call me to it,and flrengthen mefn it, it would be to me the moft'.glorious day,and the gladded hour, that I ever faw in this life, but Iam in his hand to do with me whatfoever {hall, pieafehis Majedy, it may fuffice me, that 1 have had fo longa time in the knowledge of the gofpel, atd (hat I havefeen the things that I have feen, and heard the thingsthat I have heard, and through the grace of God, 1 harebeen fo long a witnefs of thefe glorious and good news,in my weak minidry, and that my wittneffing hath not;been altogether without fruit and bleding, fo that I hope,at that day, l (hall have him to be my crown, my glory,-1my joy, aud reward, and therefore boldly I fry withSi*mion, Lord, now letted thou thy fervant depart in peace,-’not in peaceable dying in my bed, but by rendering upto him my fpirit, and the fealing and damping thistruth with my blood, I defire uot to have it remidied,but let my lord’s will be done.Now that prophecy is at hand, which thefe two wor¬thy ferva’&n of the Lord, Mr. George Wilheart, and Mr.John Knox, my lervaut in law fpape, which was, ThatChrid llrould be crufified in this kingdom, but gloiiousflrould be bis refurettiun, as Mr. Knox with his ownhand upon the margin of Calvin’s harmony of the par¬don did write, which is yet extant; but alas ! for this-* ,of the Reverend Mr. John Welch. 19kingdom. My teftimonynow doth not differ from thatof many before this time, who faid, That the kingdomof Scotland fhould be blood, the kingdom {hall be drawnin blood,a furbiftted and glittering fword is alreadydrawnout of the fcabbard, which {hall not return until it bemade drunk with the blood of the men of this land;firfl the heavy intefline fword, and then the fword of theftranger, O doleful Scotland well were he that were re¬moved from thee, that his eyes might not fee, nor hisears hear all the evils that are to come apon thee, neitherthe ftrong man by his ftrength, nor the rich man by hisriches, nor the nobleman by his blood, fhall be deliveredfrom the judgments. There is a great facrifice to bemade in Bofra, in thee, O Scotland, of the blood of allforts in the land Ephraim {hall confume Manaffeh, andManaffeh Ephraim ; brother againft brother; and everyman in the judgment of the Lord lhall be armed, tothrufl his fword in the fide of his neighbour, and all forthe contempt of the glorious gofpel : And that bloodwhich was offered to thee, O Scotland, in fo plentious'amanner, that the like thereof, hath not been offered toany nation, therefore thy judgment fhall be greater; butthe fanfluary muft be begun at, and the meafurc is notfulfilled, till the blood of the faints be flied ; then thecries will be great, and will not flay till they bring theLord down from heaven’s throne to fee if the fins ofScotland be according to the cry thereof; neither {hallthere be any fubjefl in the land, from the greateft tothe meaneft, guiltlefs.The guilt of our blood (hall not only ly upon our ptince,but alfo upon our own brethren, bifhops,counfdlors,andcommiflioners, it is they, even they that have fiirred upour prince againft us ; we muft therefore lay the blameand burden of our blood upon them efpeciaily howeverthe reft above written be partakers of their -fins withthem : And as to the reft of our brethren, who eitherby filence approve, or by crying peace, peace, ftrength-en the arm of the wicked, that they cannot return, inthe mean time make the hearts of the righteous fad,they {hall all in like manner be guilty of high treafon20 The Life> Sufferings^ end Propheciesagainft the King of kings, the Lord Jefus Chrift, hiscrown and kingdom.Next unto them,-all our commiffionsrs, jchancellor,prefnlenf, coRiptroller, advocate, and next unto them, Iall that firff or la It fat in council, and did not bear plainteflimony for Jefus Chrift and his kingdom, for whichWe do fufter. And next unto them, all thofe whofhould have at prefect, and who fliould at fuch timeshave come, and made open, teftimony of Chrift faith¬fully, although it had been contrary to plain law, and ,wnth the h zafd of their lives. When the poor Jewswere in fuch clanger, that nothing was expe&ed but ut-tor deft ruction, queen Efther, after three days fatting,,concluded thus with herfelf, I whl faid (lie, go into theking, though it be not according to the law, add if [perilh, 1 periflt, Eft. ix. 16. With this refolution, fuchas are bom counfellors, fliould have faid, Chrift’s king- Idom is now in my hand, and I am bound, alfo andfvvorn, by a fpecial covenant, to maintain the doeftrineand difeipline thereof, according to my vocation 'and \power, all the days of my life ; under all the pains con- ;tained in the book of God, and danger of body and ifotll, in the day of ftod’s fearful judgment ; and there- jfore, though I fhould perifti in the caufe,- yet will Ifpeak for it, ^tnd to my power defend ft, accordihg1«to 'my vocation. Finally, all thofe that counlcl, command, 1con'ent, and allow, are guilty in the'fightof God. ButJthe mourners for thefe evils, and the faithful'' of theland, and thofe who are unfeignedly grieved in heart, ^for all thefe denominations, thqfe fhall be marked as ^not guilty, Eztk ix.J 1 know not whether I fhall have occafion to write a- s;gain; and therefore, by this letter, as my latter-will andteitameht, I give teftimony, warning, and knowledge o£ |thefothings to all men, according to the Lord’s direction |to the prophet, Son of man I have made thee a watch-1man, Lzek. xxiii. 7. &c. Therefore I give warning to ,all men hereby, that no man’s blood be required at my |hand. Thus defiring the help of your prayers, with myhumble commendations and fervice in'Chrift, to mylo: d your hufband, and all the faints there, the mef-fenger of peace be with you all for evermore, Amen.j This is my coppy of this prophetical letter; and it is ai queftion whether the great prophecy concerning Scot-i*1 and, be yet fulfilled or to reeei^e its accomplifhment;1 o there is no doubt, part of it is fulfilled, for of ali thofe,who were falfe judges in his, cruel fentence, there is nowno remnant nor memory, as is commonly obfetved.Another famous prophetical letter he wrote to Sir=| William Livingftone of KlilTyth,one of the lords of theI college of juftice, whereof this my copy.I Right Honourable, my hearty Salutations rememberedin the Lord,i 'XT’ OUR love and care many times have certainly com-i forted me. And having no other thing to requite,I lhall, as 1 may, defire him who is able to do, and hathundertaken ir, to meet you and yours with confolationsin his good time.As for the matter itfelf, the bearer will fhew you, thatwhat is required is fuch a thing, as in the fight of ourLord we piay'not do, without both the hazard of our con-Nfeieiices,and the libertyof Chrift’s kin ; dom,which Ihouldbe dearer tp us than any thing elfe : Wh^t a Haverywere it to us to bind our confcienees, in the fervice ofour God, in the meanell; point of our callings,to,the willof man or angels? and we are fully refolved that what wedid, was acceptable fervice to our God, who hath pi tit up as fervice done to him, and has, allowed and fealtdit to us by many tokens *, foit that were more than highimpiety, and appllacy, to tellify the ruin and undoing,of anything which ciuGcd hath oidained to feedone. WeBLACKNESS, ■?January 6. i6od. 5Yours to my full power forthe time Chi ill’s priloner,JOHN WELCH.22 The Life, Sufferings, end PropheciesSir,if the lord will, are yet ready to do more in onr cal- ||ling, and to fufFer more for the fame, if fo be it willpleafe our God to call us to it, and ftrengthen us in it,for ourfelves we dare promife nothing, but in our Godall things.And for that infturment Spotfwood, we are fure theLord will never blefs that man, but a maledi&ion liesupon him, and (hall accompany all his doings: and itmay be. Sir, your eyes {hall fee as great comfufion co¬vering him, ere he go to his grave, as ever did his pre-deceflbrs. Now furely, Sir, I am far form bitternefs,but here I denounce the wrath of an everlafling Godagainft him, which affuredly fhall fall except it be pre¬vented. Sir, Dagon fhall not ftand before the ark ofthe Lord, and thefe names of blafphemy that he wearsof arch and lord bifhop, will have a fearful end, Notone beck is to be given to Haman, fuppofe he was asgreat a courtier as ever he was, fuppofe the decree wasgiven out and fealed with the kings ring, deliverancewill come elfewherc, and not by him, who has been fofore an inftrument, not againft: our perfons, that werenothing, (for I proteft to you, Sir, in the fight of m yGod, I forgive him all the evil he has done, or can do,to me) but unto chrift’s poor kirk, in ftamping underfoot, fo glorious a kingdom, and beauty, as was once inthis land he has helped to cut Sampfon’s hair, and toexpofe him to mocking, but the Lord will not be moc-j sked : he (hall be caft away as a ftone out of a fling, hisname flhall rot, and a malediction {hall fall upon his pof- Iterity after he is gone. Let this, Sir, be a monument :of it, that it was told before, that when it (hall come topafs, it may be feen there was warning given him : Andtherefore, Sir, feeing I have not the accefs myfelf, if itwould pleafe God to move you, I wi(h you did deliver sthis hard meflage to him not as from me, but from. ■the Lord.Blacknefs, 1605,JOHN WELCH.I of the Raverend A/r John WeTclir” 23The man upon whom he complains and threatens foore, was bifhop fpotfwood, at that time defigned arch-)ifhop of Glafgow ; and this prophefy was pun&uallyiccomplilhed, though after the fpace of foity years, forir>1 the biihop himfelf died in a ftrange land, and, as►jnany fay, in mifery ; next his fon Robert Spotfwood,(bmetime prebdent of the Seffion, was beheaded by the5ailiament of Scotland, at the market crofs of St. An¬drews, in the winter after the battle of Philiphaugh, toirhich I myfelf with many thoufands, was witnefs, andis foon as ever he came upon the fcafFold, Mr. Blair,[vhe minifter of the town,told him, that now Mr. Welch’sProphecy wds fullfilled upon him, to which he replied inlinger, that Mr. Welch he and were both falfe prophets.I But before he left Scotland, fome remarkable pafiagesIn his behaviour are to be remembred, Andfirft whenJhe difpute about church government began to warm; as. e was walking upon the flreet of Edinburgh, betwixtivo honed citizens, he told them, they had in their townjivo great minders, who were no great friends to Chrid’siJaufe, prefently in contfoverfy, but it diould be feen,fce world diould never hear of their repentance. Thej|vo men were Mr, Patrick Galloway, and Mr John|Iall ; and accordingly it came to pals, for Mr. PatrickJalloway died eafing himfelf upon his dool; and Mr.ohn Hall, being at that time at Leith, and his fervantOman having left him alone in-his houfe while diewent. > the market he was found dead all alone at her return.Ke was fometime prifoner in Edinbutgh cadle befores went into exile, where one night fitting at fupperIith the lord Ochi)try,who was an uncle to Mr. Welch’srfe. as his manner was. he entertained the companyith godly and edifying difeourfe, w-hich was well re¬ived by aU the company dive only one debauched po-(h young gentleman, who fometirr.es laughed, andmeimes mocked and made faces: whereupon Mr.felch brake out into a fad abrupt chatge upon all theimpany to be filent, and obferve the work of theLord• ion that prophane mocker, which they fliould prefent-behold upon which immediately the prophane24 The Life, Suffcrings^m^^pheae^^^wretch funk down and died beneath table, but nevereturned to life again, to the great aftonilhment of althe company.Another wonderful ftory they tell of him at the famtime j the lord Ochiltr.y the captain, being both ion rthe good lord Ochiliry, and Mr. Welch’s uncle in lawwas indeed very civil to Mr.Welch, but being for a lonjtime,through the multitude of affairs, kept from vifitinMr. Welch in his chamber, as he was one day walkinin the court, and he efpyingMr Welch at his chambewindow afked- him kindly how he di y and if in aathing he could lerve' him. Mr. Welch anfwered him, hwould earneftly entreat his lordlhip, being at that timto go to court, to petition king James in his name, thahe might have liberty to preach the gofpel; which mlord promifed to do Mr, Welch anfvvered, my lordboth becaule you are my kinfman, and for other reafons, I would earneftly. entreat, and obteft you not tpromife except you faithfully perform. My lord anfwened, He would faithlnily pe form hispromife; and 1went for London' But though at his firft anival he wtreally purpofed to prefent the petition to the king, whehe found the king in fuch a rage againft the godly minifterSj that he durft not at that time prefent it, fo h tthought fit to delay it; ant) thereafter fully forgot, s tThe firft time that Mr. Welch law his face after ftreturn from court, he afked him what he had done wi« this petition. My lord anfwered he. He had prefentedj Ito the king,.but that the king was in fo great a rage j t:gainft the minifters at that time, he believed it had bedtforgotten, for he had gotten no anfwer. Nay faid M|:Welch to him, My lord you fhould not lye to God, arlto me, for 1 know ycu never delivered it, though I war*ed you to take heed not to undertake it, except yclwpul dperform it ; but becaufe you have dealt fo ui t. faithfully, remember God fhall t. ke from you both Jftate and honours, and give them to your neighbour^ iyour own time which accordingly came to pals, f'both his eftate and honours were in his own time ifffiared upon James Stewart fon to captain James, \v| tof the Reverend Mr, John Welch.fear, indeed a cadet} but not the linial heir of the fa-i While he was detained prifoner in Edinburgh caftle,,mis wite.ufed for the moft; part to ftay in his company,iput upon a time fell into a longing to fee her family inJAyr, to which with fome difficulty he yielded ; but when-ifhe was to take her journey, he itrictly charged her not>*0 talce the ordinary way to her own houfe, when fhe^jjcarqe to Ayrj nor to pafs by the bridge thro' the sown,,ijbut to pafs the river above the bridger and fo get -the| way to his own houfe, and hot to come ip to the town*ijfor, faid he, before you come thither, you fhall find theiplague broken out in Ayr, which accordingly came tofipals.I The plague war, at that time very terrible, and he be¬lling neccffariley feperate from his people, it was to hinvIthe more grievous; but when the people of Ayr came tojhim to bemoan themfelves, his anfwer was, that Hugh’Kennedy, a-godly gentleman in their town, Ihould prayfor them, and God fhould hear him. This counfel theyaccepted, and the gentleman conveening a number ofhoneft citizens, pr, yed fervently for the town, ’as hewas a mighty wreftler with God, and accordingly after?that the plague decreAfed..Now the time is comehe muft leave Scotland, andhe*ver to fee it again, fo upon the fevenih of November1606 in the morning, he with his neighbours took fhip-at Leith, atid though it-wps buttwoo’clock tn the morn¬ing, many were waiting on with their afflicted families,,to bid them.farewell. After prayer, they fung the xxiii-pfalm, .and fo with the great grief of the fpedlators, fetfa"l for the fouth of France, and landed in the river ofBourdeaux. Within fourteen weeks of his arrivalj fuch.was the Lord’s bleffing upon his diligence, he was able*to preach in Ficncb,and accordingly was fpeedily calledto the miniltry, firft in one village then in another; one-of them was Nerac, and thereafter fettled in faint Jeand'’Angely, a coniiderable walled town, and there he con¬tinued the red of the time he fojourned inFrance, whichwas about fixteen years. When he began to preachj U,2 5 The Life, Sufferings, and Prophecieswas obferved by fome of his hearers, that while he con¬tinued in the do£lrinal partof his fermon, he fpoke verjCorrett French, but when he came to his applicationand when his afTcdiions kindled, his fervour made himfometimes negleft the accuracy of the French con!'ruc¬tion : but there were godly young men who admonifh- :ed him of this, which he took in very good part, fo for :preventing miftakes of that kind, he defired the younggentlemen, when they preceived him beginning to de ; •cline, to give him a fign, and the fign was, that they <were both to (land up upon their feet, and thereafter he twas more exa£t in his expreflion through his whole fer- iraon ; fo defirous was he, not only to deliver good mat- iter, but to recommend it to the neat exprefiion.There were many times perfons of great quality in hisauditory, before whom he was juft as bold as ever he had ibeen in a Scots village; which movedMr Boyd of Troth-‘ itig once to alk him, (after he had preached before the ;univerfity of Samure with fuch boldnefs and authority, ,, ias if he had been before the meaneft congregation) hew she could be fo confident among ftrangers, and perfons tof fuch quality ! to which he anfwered, That he was fo ;filled with the dread of God, he had no apprehenfionfrom man at all; and this anfwer, faid Mr. Boyd,' didnet remove my admiration, but rather increafe it.There was in his houfe amongft many others, who itabled with him for good education, a young gentlemanof great quality, and fuitabfe expedfations, and this was •the heir of the lord Ochiltry, who was captain of the .;caftle of Edinburgh. This young nobltman, after he hadgained very much upon Mr. Welch’s afftdlions, fdlfick 'of a grivious freknefs, and after he had been long waft¬ed with it, elofed his eyes, and expired as dying menufed to d®, fo to the appuher.fion and fenfe of all fpec- .Jtators, he w'as no more but a carcafe, and was therefore ]tsken out of his bed, and laid upon a pallet on the floor, jthat his body might be the mere conveniently drifted, |ssdead bodies ufed to be. This Was to Mr. Welch a verygteat grief, and therefore he flayed with the young man’sdead body full, three licurs, lamenting over him withof the Riverend Mr John Welch. 27great tendernefs. After twelve hours, the friends broughtin a coffin, whereinto they defired the corps to be put,as the cuftom is : but Mr. Welch defired, that for thefatisfa&ion of his affe&ions,they would forbear the youthfor a time, which they granted, 2nd returned not tilltwenty four hours, after his death, were expired j then;r1 they returned, defiring with great importunity the corp&; might be coffined, that it might be fpeedly buried, theweather being extreamly hot ; yet he pe'rfifled in his re-| queft, earneftly begging them to exeufe him for once4 more ; fo they left the youth upon his pallat for full thif-I ty fix hours ; but even after-all that, though he was ur*j| ged,not only with great eameftnefs, but difpleafure, theyI were conllr^ined to forbear for twelve hours yet more ;I after forty eight hours were part, Mr. Welch was {tilliij where he was, and then his friends perceived he believ-J ed the young man was not really dead, but under fomeuj apopleftic fit, and therefore purpofed to him for his fa-'I tisfatfion, that tryal ffiould be made upon his body bydottors and chirurgeons, if-poffibly any fparh of lile:might be found in him, and with this he was content :fo the phyficians are fet on work, who pinched him withpincers in the fleffiy part of the body, and twilled a bowfiring about his head with great force, but no fign of lifeappearing in him, fo the phyficians pronounced him Harkdead, and then there was no more delay to be defired ^ytt Mr. Welch begged of them once more, that theywould but ftep into the next room for an hour or two,and leeve him with the dead youth, and this they grant-i cd : '1 hen Mr. Welch fell down before the pallat, amA1 died to the Lord with all his might, for the lad timeij and fometimes locked upon the dead body, Gontinuingin wrellling with the Lord till at length the dead youth: opened his eyes-, and cried out to Mr. Welch whom hedillin£lly knew, O Sir, I am all whole, but my headuand legs : and thefe were the places they had foie hurt,; with their pinching.When Mr. Welch perceived this, he called upon hi*friends, and fhewed them the dead young man redored■ to life again, to thjir great aftoniffitnent. And thi*2S 'The Life, Suffering!, and Pr:phecies- young noMeman,though he loft the the eftate ofQchiltry,lived to acquire a gieat eftate in Ireland, and was lordCaftleftewart, and a man of fuch excellent part, that hewas courted by the earl of Stafford,to be a counfellorin Ireland, which he refufed to be until the godly fdenrred Scottifh Tninifters, who fuffered. under the blthops inthe north of Ireland; were reftored to the exercife oftheirminiftery and then he engaged, and fo continued for allhis life, not only in honour and power but in the pro-1feffion and pva&ice of godlinefs, to the great comfort ofthe country where he lived. This ftorythe nobleman com¬municated to his friends iulreland,and from theml had it.While Mr. Welch was minifter in one of the Frenchvillages,upon an evening-a certain popifh friar travellingthrough the conntry, becaufe he could not find lodging ,in the v'llage, addreft himfelf to Mr. Weleb’s houfe for ’one night. The fervants accquainted their mafter and ::he was content to receive this gueft. The family had fupt ;’before he came, and fo the fervants convayed the friar to,'his chamber, and after they had made his fupper, theyleft him to his reft. There wais but a timber partition-betwjxt him and Mr. Welch, and after the friar had flepthis firft fieep, he was furprifed with the hearing of a fivlent, but conftant whifpering noife, at which he wonljdered very much, and was not a little troubled with it. jThe next morning he walked in the fialds, where he :chanced to meet with a country man, who faluted himbecaufe of his habit, afkcd him where he had lodged thatnight ? The friar anfwered he had lodged with the hu-genot minifter. then the country man afked him what |entertainment he hadi The friar anfwered, Very bad;for, laid he, I alway held that there were devils hauntingthefe mi Differs houfes, and lam ptifuaded there was onewith me laft night, for I heard a continual whifper allthe night over, which I believe was no other thing, than .1the mfpifter and the devil converfing together. The ft.country man told him, he was much miftaken, apd that *it was nothing elfe, but the minifter at his night prayer. |O, faid the friar doc's the miniftei pray any ? Yes, more’’any man in Fra’.ce, anfweicd the country man^ |1I of'he Reverend Mr. John Welch. 29And if you pleafe to Hay another night with him you|nay be fatisfied The friar got him to Mr Welch’sAoufe, and pretended indifpofition, entreated anotherlight’s lodging, which'was granted him,ij Before dinner, Mr. Welch came from his chamber,imd made his family exercife, according to cufiome.kud fird fung a pf «ltn, then read a portion of feripture,thd difeourfed upon it, thereafter he piayed with greatfervour, as his cuflom was : To all which the friar wasn aftoiiifhed witriefs. After the exercife they went toEnner, where the friar was very civily ufed Mr Welchfbearing all queflious and difpute with him for theme ? when the evening came, Mr. Welch made hisrercife as he had done in the morning, which occafion-d yet more wondering in the friar, and after fupper toed they went; but the friar longed much to know whatie night whifper was, and in that he was icon fatisfitd,>r after Mr* Welch’s fitft fleep, the noife began, andncl then the friar refolved to be fure what h was, fo herept Glently to Mr. Welch’s chamber-door, and theree heard not only the found, but the words diftin£Uy,ad communications betwixt God and man, and fuch asnew not had'been in the world. Upon.the next morn*)g, as foon as Mr. Welch was ready, the friar went torm, and told him, that he had been bred in ignoranfce,M lived in darknefs all his time, but now he was re-dved to adyentnre his foul with Mr. Welch, and there-pon declared himfelf a Proteftant : Mr. Welch wel->med him and encouraged him, and he continued arnflant Biotpftant to his dying day. This flory I hadom a godly minilter, who was bred in Mr. Welch’s>ufe, when in France.When Le wes XIII king ofFrance, made war upon therote ft amt 8 .there, becaufe of their religion, the city oft. Jeand’ Ahgely was by him and his royal army be*sged, aed- brought it to extreme danger Mr. Welchas miniljer in the town, and mightily encouraged therizerrs to hold out, alluring them, God fhould deliverem In the time of the liege a cannon bill pierced thed where he was lying, upon which he go:up, but would30 The Lifei Sufferings, And Prrphecieenot leave the room, till he had, by folemn prayer, ac ;knowledged his deliverance. During this fiege, th ;townfmen made flout defence, till once one of the king: tgunners planted a great gun, lo conveniently upon a riling ground, that therewith he could command the whol fwall, upon which the townfmen made their greateft de jfence Upon this they were forced to forfake the wai .in great terror, and though they had feveral guns planted upon the wall, no'man durft undertake to mannag rthem. This being told Mr. Welch with great affright rimtnt, he notwithftanding encouraged them ftill to hob tout, and running to the wall himfelf, found the can -nonier, who was a Burgundian, near the,wall, him h* ientreated to mount the wall, promifing to aflifthim, W ,perfon, fo to the wall they got. The cannoniertold Mr .Welch, that either they behoved to difmount the gui ,upon the rifing gaound, or elfe they were furely loft ; Mf .Welch defired him to aim well, and he fhould fervehimand God. would help him j fo the gunner fella fcouritighis piece, and Mr. Welch runs to the powder to fetchhim a charge ; but as foon as he was returning, theking’s gunner fired Hs piece, which earned both thepowder and ladle cut of Mr. Welch’s hands, which yeidid not difeourage him, for having left the ladle, he fil¬led his hat with powder, wherewith the gunner loadechis piece, and difmounted the king’s gun at the firftfhot;fo the citizens returned to their poft of defence. ,This dii'couraged the king fo, that he fent to tbecitnzens to offer them fair conditions, which were, Thatthey fhould enjoy the liberty of their religion, their civilprivileges, and their walls fl.ould not be demolifhed :only the king dtfired for his hom.uis ihat he might enttn j;the city with his fervants in a friendly manner. Thisthe city thought fit to grajn, and the king with a few imore entered the city in a ftort time. But while the kingtwas in chi city, Mr. Welch preached as was his ordinary, :which much offended the French court j fo on a day whilehe w s at fermcn, the king fent the duke de Efperon toft tch him aut of the pulpet into his prefence. The dukeemwith his guard, and as foon as he entered the thutch ,o f the Reverend Mr. John Welch. 31ilwhere Mr Welch was preaching.Mr. Welch commandedi|to make way, and to fetaa{feat that the duke might hearftheword of the Lord. The duke inftcad of interruptingliim fat down, and gravely beard the fermon to an end,fhnd then told Mr. Welch he behoved to go w ith him tothe king, which Mr Welch willingly did. When theijluke came to the king, the king afked him why heiirought not the minifler with, him and why he did notnterrupt him. The duke anfwered, Never man fpakeike this man but that he had brought him with him.-Thereupon Mr. Welch is called, and when he enteredhe king’s room, he kneeled upon his knees, and filently-rayed for wifdom and afliftance. Thereafter the kinghallenged him, how he durft preach w here he was, fincewas againft the laws of France, that any man fhouldreach within the verge of his court ? Mr. Welch an-tvered him, Sir, if you did right you would come andjear me preach, and make all France hear me likewife.or faid he, 1 preach not as thofc men you ufe to heareach ; my preaching differs from theirs in thefe two?ints. Firlt, I preach that you mull be faved by the deathtd merits of Jefus Chiift, and not your own. Next, Ieach, faid he, that as you are king of France, you areider the authority and command of no man on earth ;ofe men faid be, whom you hear, fufcjpft you to thepe of Koom, which 1 will never do. The king re-ied nomore, but Et bein vous Jerir man miniftre. Well,:!1 you fhall be my minifter; and fomefay called himher, which is an honour the king of France bellowson few of the gieatell prelates in France; however heis favourably difmified at that time, and the kingalfoSt the city in peace.But w ithin a fhort time thereafter the war was renew-and then Mr. Welch told the 'nhabitantsof the city»t now their cup was full, and th--y fhould no moreape •, which accordingly came to pafs, ior'the king tooktown, and as focn as ever it fell into his hand hermanded Viuy the captain of his guard to enter then, and p-eferve his minifler firm all danger; andn were horfes and waggons provided for Mr. Welch,3 2 The Life, Sufferings, and Propheciesto jxanfport him and his family for Rochel, whither hiwent,ytnd'there fojourned foa a time This.ftory mlord Kenmure, who was bred in Mr. Welch’s houfe tohMr. LivingftonMmifter atAncrum,tfnd from him Ihad itAfter his flock in France was fcaitered, he obtained liberty to come to England, and his friends made hardfuit, that ** e might be permitted to return to Scotlandbecaufe the phyficians declared there was no other wa]to preferve his life but by the freedom he might hav<sin his native air. But to this king James would neveiyield, proteftiog he fliould never be able to eltablilh hia'beloved,biflipps in Stotland, if Mr. Welch were permit?ted to return thither *, fo he languiihed at London a conifiderably time, his difeafe was judged by feme ta have itendency to a leprofy, phyficians fays he had been poiToned, a langour he had together with a great weaknefin his knees, caufed by his continual kneeling at prayer:by which it came to pafs, that though he was able tcmove his knees, and to walk, yet he was wholly infen|fible in them, and the fiefh became hard dike, a fort ol|horn. But when in the time of his weaknefs, he w:defined to remit fomewhat Of his exceflive painfulne'his anfwer was, Fie had his of God, and therefor^fiiould be fpent for him.iLs-friends importuned king James very much, thatjhe might not return to Scotland, at leaiLhe might h;"liberty to preach at Loudon, which king James woinever grant, till be heard ail hopes of life were part, aithen he allowed him the liberty to preach, not iearinjjhis arSUvity.Then as foon as ever he heard he might preach,greedily embraced this liberty, and having accefs tolecturer’s pulpit, he went and preached both long atfervently: which was.the laft performance of his lifo-for after he had ended his fermon, he returned to Upchamber, and within two hour-, quietly and vvithojpain, he refigned his fpirit into his Maker’s hands, ajwas buried near Mr. Deering,the famous Englilh divin*he had lived little more than fifty two years.f i n i a.