A NA Nauthentic accountOF THEIMPORTANT BATTLE of the NILE,Fought on the ift ari<l ,?.4 of Auf’uft, *^98.BETWEEN THEBRITISH FLEET,♦COMMANDED BYRear Admiral Sir HORATIO NELSON, K. B.ANDThe French Fleet, Commanded byVICE-ADMIRAL BRUEYS,In Requires Bay, on tlx Qoajl of EGYPT.This account was fent t>7 a young Man who wasboard the Majeftic of 74 ciuns, to his Mother in’Wbfteh .v n. v th the Particulars of the Cruize, pre<*vious to their falling in wkh the Enemy.Stirling, Printed by C. &ahdalu i8uo*A NAUTHENTIC ACCOUNT, UV.iT\N the 24th of May our orders cameon board (we were then lying in Ca¬diz bay) to fail in company with nineIhips of the Line, to join Admiral Neltbnin the Mediterranean lea, in about threeweeks time we fell in with Admiral N'el-fon, blue at the Mizzen, in the Vanguard,near Toulon, hav’ -g with him the Orion,Alexander, the Leardcr, and the MurineBrig of war ; our fleet then corfifled otthirteen Sail of the Line, one fifty gunflip, an.1 a. brig ot flxteen guns ; the fol¬lowing is a lift of the fliips : the Van¬guard, fevxnty four guns, Admiral Nel-fon, Orion, ditto, Alexander, Audacious,Bclleroph .vu, Culloden, Defence, Goliah,S 'iftfure, Majeftic, 'I hefevis, Minotaur,Zealous, Leander, fifty, and the MutineBrig cf flxteen runs From Toulon wefailed to the Hies of Corflca. i a c-ueft ofthe enemy, lute not hearing of them therewe continued our eourfe upwards, asv.e well knew tire French had fadedfrom Toulon, \ye then went through avery narrow pafttge, one flrip only could£Q. thpou^h ji'c the tiu'ie, with a pilot .-.on.( 3 ) . .Dchrd, tlie name of the pi tee is raro Metlina •. A vaft concautie of pea; . camsaloog-liae of our iliips in boats, and ex-r _;ied great furprife at iecmg fuch a fleetof large fhips, for it was never known intin memory f any perfon living at thistime, for a iie. t of men of vvar to he feenthere ; they were overjoyed whenthey underftood we were in fearch ofthe ^French fleet, and informed us, thatthey were feen off, a few days before wc;arrived, and had gone to Malta ; wefed in with a brig, and Hie gave us intel¬ligence that the French fleet had failedfor Egypt. Our Admiral being deter- ‘mined to find them, it poffiblc, fleeredhis cottrfe for Alexandria, in fgypt; butto his great furprife and mortification dieFrench fleet had not been there at all:we then fleered our ccurfe down again,and coafted round the Ifland of Candia,and then put m to the Ifland of Syracufein Sicily, where we wooded and watered,being much in want of the fame, all . votook a good floe a of ,Frefh Beef to fi-a1with us ;—and during; the dine we werelaying there we gained frefh intelligencethat the Flench fleet, after having cap¬tured Malta, and garnlimed the iflandwith Frencn troops, had faikd fop Aie\-.( 4 Kaf dria, an4 arrived there lour da afterv f left it. We then failed from .Syra-Jcafe on the 24th of Jtlly, and on otu paf-faue, the CnllocWn captured ^ brig I ■ 1with wine,—fhe wras a tranfport beloiing to and on her paffige to the Frenchfleet, fhe confirmed the intelligencethat we received in Syracufe. On theiff of Auguft, at 4 o’clock, P. M. theZealous being the look out fliip for thatday, made the fignal for an enemy’s fleetlying at an anchor, oil the mouth of theriver Nile, above Alexandria, the enemy’sfleet confided of 1 three decker of onehundred and thirty guns, called theL’Orient ■: 5 Eighty-fours : 7 Seventy-fours : 4 Frigates : 1 Brig-cutter: andfeveral Gun Boats : our Admiral madethe fignal to clear the fhips for action,we hauled our wind about 5 o’clock, inor er to get well to the windward of theenemy’s fleet, we then bore down uponthem at fix o’clock : our Admiral hoifledthe Bloody ESag at his mairtopgallant-rraft head, and made a iignai for theflaps to form a line in the belt mannerthey could, and engage the enemy asthey came up : the bead-mult fhip wasthe Goliah, w filch began to engage theenemy, at .half an hour alter 6 in theevening, aud our ihijp began to engage( 5 )near 7 o’clock j during the time we werebringing the {hip to an anchor with fpringson our cables, we had feveral men killedai d wounded, for we began to engagein five fathom water, within piflol {hotof each other : I cannot relate every par-fjticular that happened in the a.dlion, as I1 had to attend my duty. Early in the ac¬tion, one of the French Eighty-fours came!j from her moorings, intending to bring;(j along fide of us, broad-fide too but thank-God they were fruit-rated in their fcheme,for they brought up {teem on our {lar¬board quarter, with her jib-600m beforeour Mizzen Rigging, tSiey were not. ableto bring a gun to bear on us but fmailarms, (b) vhefe however we had iewralmen killed) flit ii be wife made feveral at¬tempts to board us, but they were re-pulled with great lofs on their fide, ourgreat guns aid her mcredible mifehief, asevery Ihot near racked her fore and aft;fhe remained in that lit nation near aiahour : ihe was fo terribly {battered, thatwe could fee through their bows veryplain, die either cut c r dipped her cables,and drifted away from us, and run a-g round : another tv o decker, an Eighty-four, made an attempt to hoard us on ourbow, for her tafiril was right under our„ a 6 yBowfpnt, but they were foon re pulled byour Marines and boarders.The li’Orient, -of one hundred andthirty gus, engaged us on our Larboardbow : about 10 o'clock, as near as i canlearn, fhe took fire in her main chains,and continued burning with great furytill 11 o’clock, when Ihe blew up dole,to us, the explofion was terrible : thenwe had an fcigKty-four e* gaging us onour Larboard fide, but we foon totallydifmafte'd her ; and then two more frenchfhips came to her-afudance, they were allthree blazing on. us at once: we (houldhave have a narrow efcape from a watrytomb, had not the Alexander come toour Affifiance : the Alexander had beenone ot the look out ihips that day, andhad got f> far to lea ward, that ihe couldnot come into the engagement till lave •in the evening die was coming into thefleet from fea, but feeing our ihip hotlyengaged with three others of fuperiorforce, (lie came down to our aliil-rance and lay on cur larboard quarter,and engaged the enemy with great gal¬lantry ; about half pail two o’clock ourmain and mizzen was ihot away, near3 o’clock we ceaied firing on both fides :the action was again renewed between4 & 4 0’ clock in the nrorning, and con-C 7 ) .tinned near an hour, when ir concluded.We took nine fail of the line, one three-decker blew up during the aflion, oneFrigate on Ihore funk and blew up ano¬ther, which v/a^ fet on fire by the enemy,after finking to us, a canter brig likewife| blew up, and leveral gun boats- wereideftroyed belonging to the enemy duringthe aflion : fwo fail of the line and twoI Frigates, were all that efcaped out ot their[| whole fleet, and they much difabied : itv was currently reported, but i cannotvouch for the truth of it, that there wase a deal of valuable property in the three-:: decker that blew up, being the plunder:i that the French brought from Malta ; our! fhip fuffered very much in the aclion,:! befides the lofs of her main and mizzen[mail, fhe had her fore-mail and bow-! fprit lhattered in feveral places, her fore-I topmafl rendered totally unferviceable,her fore-yard was fhot away, and fhe re¬ceived a great many fhocs in her Hull,' but thank God, flic has a good bottom :we had fifty men killed, one hundred andforty-three wounded, and twenty-one havedied fiuce of their wounds : and thereare many more at this time that are dan-getoufly ill,-our Captain fell in the earlypart of the adtiert, like wife our Boat-.( .s )Twain, and a midihinmau \vr?re killed,have likewife to acquaint you, that theCulloden unfortunately run aground,and was thereby prevented from cominginto the acffton : the Alexander, Beliero-phon, and Majellic were the greatert fuf-fcrer. To give you an accurate lift ofthe killed and wounded on board of each£hip, it is not in my power. The 2dof Auguft, we were employed in clearingthe wreck, and then we proceeded to getup Jury-mafis, and rigging the Ihips forlea : feven of the prizes were difmafted eand on the 15th of Auguft, having fix ofthe prizes refitted, we proceeded to fea,being in all thirteen fail of the Line,(feven Engliili and fix French) we leftAdmiral Nelibn with fix of our fhips andthree prizes, lying at an anchor, off themouth of the River Nile, with an intentto intercept any thing that came downthe Nile, as it belongs to the French. Weiare now bound to old England oncemot'e ;—but owing to the Ihips being]in fuch a flattered condition, it will bea long time before we reach Eugkmd.Junlds we meet with a very favourable]wind. Wc had on board this action, j 6people.