CHBAP TRACTS, No. 5.Awful Phenomena of Nature!\—     EARTHQUAKES.BEING AN ACCOUNT OF'J'lie Earthquake at Lisbon in 1756,at Caraccas in 1812,—in Scotlandin 1816,—and at Aleppo in 1822.“//e looketh on the earth and it trembleth."DUNFERMLINE :PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.1826.A ,oH ^1'‘0h.a1 SIAiili i! lo Bnamoa^ii4! hyt ^My . .. *■'fo tkuoqja oiritTACCOUNT OF THE^c\i fl£ K0H3/U ;; ' iii;;pj{r : i^;.-EAKTHQUAKE AT LISBON,.S;28X nl OTITJA Ja bnfi—,bIS T r.iBY A SPECTATOR.There never was a finer morning seen thai ithe first of November, 1755. The sun shornin his full lustre, and the whole face of tinsky was perfectly serene and clear. Not tinleast sign or warning was afforded of tha;approaching event, which rendered the onciflourishing, opulent and populous city pLisbon a scene of the utmost horror am tdesolation.On the morning of this fatal day, betweenthe hours of nine and ten, I was sitting iimy apartment, and had just finished .«Oi*oX3letter, when the table I was writing onbegan to tremble with a gentle motion,which surprised me, as I could not perceivea breath of wind stirring. Whilst I wasreflecting on what could be the cause, thewhole house began to shake fi*om the veryfoundation, which at first I imputed to therattling of coaches in the street; but on(listening more attentively, 1 found it wasawing to a frightful noise under ground,resembling the rumbling of distant thun-ier. All this passed in less than a minute.1 now began to be alarmed, as it occurredto me, that the noise might possibly be theipresage of an approaching earthquake.1 threw dowm my pen, and started uponny feet, remaining for a moment in sus->ence, whether I should stay in the apart-nent, or run into the street; but in an in-itant I was roused from my dream, beino-itunned with a most horrid crash, as thoughvery edifice in the city had tumbled downt once. The house 1 was in shook withuch violence, that the upper stories imme-iiiately fell in ; and though my apartmentwhich was on the first floor) did not im-nediately share the same fate, yet everyhing was thrown out of its place, and itvas with difficulty that I kept my feet.> expected nothing less than to be crushedo death, as the walls continued rocking to44«ml fro in the most frightful manner, am*opening in several places ; large stones felclown on every side by the cracks, and thfend of most of the rafters started at th jsame time from the wall. The sky in .moment became so gloomy, that I couhdistinguish no particular object, it waan Egyptian darkness, such as might befelt; owing to the prodigious clouds o;dust and lime, raised from so violent a eoncussion, and from the overthrow of so mambuildings, and, as some reported, fromsulphurous exhalations. However, it i.certain that I found myself almost ehokeefor nearly ten minutes.As soon as the gloom began to disperseand the violence of the shock to abate, tinfirst object I perceived in my room waswoman sitting on the floor, with an infantin her arms, covered with dust, pale amttrembling. I asked her how she camflthere; but her consternation was so greatthat she gave me no account: She askecme in the utmost agony, if I did not thinlfe|the world was at an end; at the same tim«she complained of being choked, and begtged I would procure her a little drink,told her she must not think of quenchingher thirst, but of saving her life, as thehouse was just falling on our heads, and ;second shock would certainly bury usWMmL.   v.. .    JI hurried down stairs,,the woman holding %by my arm, and made directly to the endo'" the street which opens to the river Tagus: pbut finding the passage completely blockedup by the fallen houses, 1 turned back ;having helped the woman over a vast heapnt ruins, with no small hazard to my ownlife. Just as we were going into the street,there was one part which I could not climbover without the assistance of my hands as' well as my feet. I therefore desired her tolet go her hold, which she did, remainingtwo or three feet behind me; and at thismoment there fell a vast stone from a tot¬tering wall, and crushing both her and theI .child in pieces !I had,now a long narrow street to pas$,in wdueh the houses on each side were fouror five stories high, all very old, and thegreater part of them already thrown down,1 or continually falling, and threatening the; passengers with death at every step, num-J bers ot whom lay killed before me, or whatwas more deplorable, so wounded andbruised, that they could not move so as toescape the destruction which impendedover them. . , >t^ As self-preservation, howevci, is the firstlaw of nature, I proceeded as fast as I could:■ and having got clear of the'narrow street,< 1 lound myself in safety in the large OpC’’.6ipice before St. Paul’s church, which had!been thrown down a few minutes before, ^and had buried a great part of a numerous gcongregation. Here 1 stood for somettime, considering what I should do; butnot thinking myself safe, I climbed overthe ruins of the west end of the church toget to the fiver-side, that I might be re-jmoved as far as possible from the totteringthouses, in the dreadful event of a second jshock.This with some difficulty I accomplished ;and by the river-side I found a prodigious!concourse of both sexes, and of all ranksand conditions. All these, whom theirmutual fL'intxprs had here assembled as to a*prayer, with the terrors of death in theircountenances, every one striking his breastand crying incessantly to heaven for mercy!and protection.In the midst of our devotions, the second!shock came with little less violence than*the first, and it completed the ruin of thosebuildings which had already been shattered.The consternation now became so universal,that shrieks and cries could be distinctlyheard from a considerable distance : at thesame time we heard the fall of the parish ’church, whereby many were killed on thejspot. The force of the shock was so greatwere on their .knees atrrilat I could scarcely support my self on myj)ees; and it was attended with some cir-Mnstances still more dreadful than theinner. On a sudden I heard a generaljy, “The sea is coming in ; we shall all be1st.” Upon this, turning my eyes towardse river Tagus, which in that place is nearur miles broad, I perceived it heaving andveiling in a most unaccountable manner,r no wind wras stirring. In an instantiiere appeared, at a small distance, a largexly of w'ater, rising like a mountain. Itpproaclied foaming and roaring,and rushedawards the shore with such rapidity, thatre all ran for our lives as fast as possible.’ilany were actually swept away : for mywn part, I had a narrow escape, and shouldmainly have been lost had 1 not grasped; large beam that lay on the ground, ’tillhe water returned again to its channel,'Inch it did almost at the same instant,ilh equal rapidity.As there now appeared at least as much■;anger from the sea as the land, I scarcely• new whither to retire for safety : I there-•ore took a sudden resolution to returnack to the area of St. Paul’s. Here I stood:ome time, and observed the ships tumblingmd tossing about, as in a violent storm,home had broken their cables, and were! arried to the other side of the Tagus, othersit8vi'ere whirled round with incredible swi.-ness, several large boats were turned k«Iupw ards ; and all this witliout anv wir .It A'- as at this time that the new quay, butof rough marble, was entirely swallow ed ij)with all the people on it,’ who had ftithere for safety, and had reason to consicwthemselves out of danger. At the sai itime, a great number of boats and smavessels, which were anchored near it, all fir.of people, (wlio Lad retired to them for tlisame purpose) were all swallowed up, asrfea whirlpool, and never more appeared.1 did not see this last dreadful incideijwith my own eyes, as it occurred a quartfjof a mile from the spot where I was, bifI had the account from several masters '<ships, who w ere ar-chored near the quajiand who saw the whole catastrophe. Ohof them informed me, that during tlsecond shock, he perceived the whole cimoving backwards and forwards, like tlsea when the wind begins to rise : and-tlagitation of the earth was so great, eveunder the river, that it threw up his lar<2anchor from the mooring, which seemed tswim on the surface of the water. Tigimmediately on this extraordinary concusion, the liver rose at once near twentfeet, and in a moment subsided ; at whic1 instant he saw the quay, with the immensicoftcoufsc of people upon it* sink down;land at the same time, tne b nvfes ami vesselsI that were near it were also drawn, into tiu-jeavity, which instantly closed, inasinuih VIthat no sign ofa wreck was ever afterwardsiseen. I went myself in a few days, buti could not find even the rums of u placei where I liad taken so many agreeable walks;, I found it ail deep water, and in some parts*bO deep as scarcely to be fathomed.I had not been long in the area of St.tPaul’s church-yard, when I felt thethird shock; which though less violentthan the former, the sea rushed in again,but retired in like manner. I took notice,that the waters retired so impetuously, asto leave some vessels quite dry, which rodejin seven-fathoms water.Perhaps you may think the subject con-;eluded : but, alas! the horrors of this dayiare enough to fill a volume. As soon as it'grew dark in the evening, another scene; presented itself, little less shocking thanthose already described. The whole cityi appeared in a blaze, so bright that 1 could ,.,see to read. It was, without exaggeration.ion fire in a hundred different places at once, -and it continued burning for six days to¬gether without intermission, or without the ,j least attempt to stop its progress, such were .I the distress and consternation of the sur-jivivors. r10I could not learn that this terrible fireswas owing to «ny subterraneous eruption tdThe first of November being All Saintsffcday, every altar in every church and chape ((some of which have more than twenty t*was illuminated with a number of waxitapers and lamps; which setting fire to tlniicurtains and timber work that fell with the ishock, the conflagration soon spread to the!neighbouring houses. ri he fire, in consequence destroyed the whole city, at leaslevery thing that was grand or valuable.The number of persons that perished, ineluding those who were burnt or were af|terwards crushed to death whilstin the ruins, is supposed on the lo\dilation to have amounted to more thansixty thousand. This extensive and opulent city was nothing but a vast heap oiruins; the rich and poor were all upon ilevel, and some thousands of families, whebut the day before, had been easy in theiifcircumstances, were scattered in the fieldswanting every convenience, and findingnone able to relieve them.11EARTHQUAKE AT THE CARACCAS. ItThe following statement of this calamitousevent is taken from a supplement to theSt. Thomas’s gazette, dated 9th April, 1812,The 26th March has been a day of woeand horror to the province of Venezuela.At four p. m. the city of Caraccas stood inall its splendour. A few minutes latter,4500 houses, 19 churches and convents, to¬gether with all the public buildings, monu¬ments, &c. were crushed to atoms by asudden shoke of an earthquake, which didnot last a minute, and hurried thousandsof its inhabitants in ruins and desolation.That day happened tobeHoly,orMaunday-Thursday ; and at the precise hour, ever)’place of worship being crowded to com¬memorate the commencement of our Savi¬our’s passion by public procession, whichwas to proceed through the streets a fewminutes afterwards, augmented the num¬ber of hapless sufferers to an incredibleamount, as every church was levelled to theground before any person could be awareof the danger. The number of sufferers <taken out of one of the churches amounting(two days after this disaster) alone, to up¬ward of 300 corpses, besides those it maybe presumed could not yet have been takenout of such ruins, gives an idea of the ex¬tent of the calamity. The number of dead12^differently stated, from four to six, arultfar as eighteen thousand. Horrible a*this catastrophe appears, it would be a mattenof some consolation to know, that thevicinity of that city offered some support!to surviving mourners ; but the ne:.t town |and sea port thereto, viz. La Guira, has, inproportion, suffered still more, as well as its iimmediate coast. Huge masses of the:mountains detached themselves from the!smnmits, and were hurled down into theyallies. Deep clefts and separations of the ftimmense bed of rocks still threaten future Erdisasters to the hapless survivors, who are ■now occupied in burying and burning thedead, arid in relieving the numerous •:wounded and cripples perishing for want iiof surgical and medical aid, shelter, and fother comforts.”Ruins of La Guira, April 2nd, 1812. .!“ Dear Sir,—Many a time in my life 9have I experienced the goodness of a amerciful God towards me, but never so cconspicuously as in my preservation during :ihe tremendaous exertion of his power,which has shaken the mountains to theirfoundation, and levelled the greatest part iof this city, as also that of Caraccas, with ithe ground—more than 10,000 have beenburied, and most of them now lie beneath i■ ■- s13liie ruins! The stench arising from theead bodies, is intolerable—such of thems could be come at, have been thrown intolie sea, or collected into heaps and burnedd ashes.It is imagined that seven-eights of theouses in this city are demolished, and ofhose which still stand there are not perhapstwenty that will be found tenable. Thelustomhouse, which was built very strong,s not much injured—the house which 1tccupy is three stories high, and was like-ivise very strong—it stood the shock with¬out falling, but it wa«so nuch injured thati do not intend to sleep in it, especially asive are continually kept in a state of alarmj»y the frequent shocks which have dailylaken place ever since the 26th ult. Whenihe first great shock occurred, 1 ran out oflay house, and in my amazement, I turnedlound, and beheld it rocking like a cradle,vhieh, with the roaring of the earthquake,ihe screams of the people, and the .crashingcrhaps of a thousand buildings, tnade thebene horrible beyond description !”U- -14EARTHQUAKES IN SCOTLAN!August, J816.Although Britain happily is not natural! aseat of these dreadful agitations of natu;.it has yet occasionally experienced thenjra minor degree. During the earthquscwhich destroyed Lisbon in 1756, the wattsboth of Loch Lomond and of Loch Ti/rose, in five minutes very considerableabove their natural level, and then subsidias rapidly. At the same time shocks we*1felt in different parts of England; and :tone place in Yorkshire, a rock was raisnfrom its place, and thrown to some distant!;in shattered fragments. In 1801, a ve*smart shock was felt entirely across tnisland, from Greenock to Edinburgh. Tfcentre appears, however, to have been iStrathearn. Three years afterwards, lv1804, a series of less severe shocks were fibin the latter quarter, particularly at Comr)tI he present earthquake appears to hakextended entirely across the island, atkpoint considerably more to the north th]iany of those now alluded to. I ts directi* 1seems to have been from WNW. to ES I’The shock was felt on the western coast ;!sRoss-shire, at Gairlosh and Appleeros?15lost strongly, ■we believe, at the latterlace. At Coul, 18 miles to the west ofnverness, it was very strong. Invernessnd the vicinity might be considered as itsentre ; and it reached with little diminu¬tion to Aberdeen and Montrose. To theorth of Inverness it seems to have rapidlyecayed. At Cromarty it was much lessevere ; and at Geanies, ten or twelve milesirther to the north-east, it was very slight,nd by some not felt at all. At Perth,nd along the Earn and Tay, it seems tonave been sensibly, but not so violently<elt. In Edinburgh it was just perceptible;vas unnoticed by the majority of the in-nabitants; and most, even of those whoelt the shock, did not recognise it as pro¬ceeding from this cause, till they learned itsnore sensible action in other quarters. Wenave ascertained, however, on the mostfespectable authority, that it was noticedjind mentioned by several individuals be¬fore any such accounts could have beenreceived Lma.-qvtxhi The following extrv t will afford a prettyfull view of the phenomena which attendedthis great convulsion of nature, at theprincipal points of its action:—Inverness, August 14.“ Last night, exactly a quarter before 11o’clock, the town of Inverness and the sur¬rounding country was fearfully shook by16one of the itrost awful phenomena in tdispensation of Providence—an earthqoa^C. and I were sitting chatting together iter supper, when we were suddenly startWiby one of the most sudden and uncomm ytpercussions l had ever felt, and which 3stantly suggested to us the cause. I cor Ithink ot nothing that could give so goftan idea of what we felt, as that of a pers trbeing on the back of a horse, when he suu'denly and violently shakes himself. Wflew to the street, where we found ahncttievery inhabitant, women and childnifscreaming, and a very con .iderable propoqtion of them naked. Many flew to tl-fields, and there remained for the great ! ipart ot the night. Chimney-tops we:;thrown down or damaged in everquarter of the town. The Mas toLodge, occupied as an hotel, was rent fro!top to bottom, the north stalk of the chiminey partly thrown down—one of the capin Istones, weighing, I should think, from flft <'to sixty pounds, was thrown to the otlutside of the street, a distance not less thassixty feeti Tlie spire of the steeple, whicI tliink one of the handsomest in Scotlandhas been seriously injured, and mustpart be taken down. The spire is an octagon; and within five or six feet of thtop, the angles of the oetagcJn are turn©llmearly lo the .middle of the sqiufe or fjyt,'side of the octagon, immediately under it.—'What is more wonderful ihan any thing(attending this memorable event, notwith¬standing the vast quantities of stones an \bricks that have been thrown from such'immense heights, not one single person has(received any hurt. I have only further to1•remark, that it was not attended with any•of those phenomena that have been Said toaccompany earthquakes. The day Hadbeen beautiful and serene,and still continues!so ; no agitations or raising was observablein the river; and it has been frequently•observed, that in countries subject to these'awful visitations, the mercury suddenlyfalls in the barometer; this 1 inssantly at¬tended to, but no alteration took place.”Montrose, August 14/7;.1 “ Tast night, a few minutes before eleven'o’clock, a shock of an earthquake was most(distinctly felt here, which had the effect ofiseriously alarming many families; andmany who were in bed were awakened by•the concussion, Those who had newly re-'tired to rest were most sensible of the shock,as they felt their beds move, first in a hori-'zontal direction, and then back to theformer situation ; after which a tremulousmotion was felt, as when a thing settles•on its basis, after being in commotion.i 8Others describe the effect as similar to thanwhich ts experienced by the slight rolling of aship at sea.— The chairs and tables in man ifhouses were, put in motion; and, in somecases, the leaves of folding tables were hear t *to rattle; the fire-irons in many instancesrung against the fenders; and bells in rooms vfind passages were set a-ringing; in many $kitchens, the cooking utensils and dishes madea noise, and next morning many of the doorswere found difficult to open—One gentlemanobserved his book-case move from the wall anafall back again upon it. It is impossible todescribe the state of alarm which most peoplewere thrown into by this unusual occurrenceMany leaped Jrom bed,imagining their houseswere Jailing, while others ran down stairs ingreat anxiety, supposing that some accidenthad happened in the lower part of their housesas it did not readily occur to many what was,the real cause oj the motion they felt.—2\ronwas the terror confined (done to the humansjwcies; a bird in a cage was so alarmed,that it burst through it, andfew towards thetight. The shock lasted for about three orfour seconds; and I understand wasjelt Jota considerable distance round, as Jar a,\Johnshaven. In this neighbourhood, twoexcisemen, who were on the watch jor smug\glers, whom they expected in a certain direc¬tion, had lain down on the ground, and token19vs/ix'A’ took place one of them t aped u}\\in<r to his companion—“ There the;/ arc ;, I feel the ground shaking under theirses' feet." Fortunately we have heard ofserious injury having }>een occasioned hy'event. The weather here had been coldl rainy for about six weeks, but cleared\tnf mid-day on Sunelay, when we had a> dry westerly breeze. The two followingys were warm, and last night c/uite andonfight. It continued clear till late thusrning, when it became dull, and we hatej some rain. It is now one o clock, ratio rlira, icitli no sunshine."* “ Aberdeen, August 14fi.!f It is with feelings of awe we have to state, that lastht, about eleven o’clock, a shock of an earthquakeg distinctly felt in the various quarters of this city,itook place at four minutes before eleven, and eon-iued, as nearly as we could estimate, about sixonds. The undulation appeared to come from'E. and was simultaneously felt at the distance ofne miles in the direction of NNW. h rom the lateiur at which it happened, we have been unable toelect, for this day’s paper, the particulars of thosetied appearances which it may have exhibited m1'crent quarters of the city.—Where we sat, theuse was shaken to its foundation, the heaviesticicles furniture were moved, and that rumbling■ ise was beard, as if some heavy body was rollingjjtig the roof. In many houses.the bells were set a-J’ging, and the agitation of the wires continueds'ble for some 'time after the cessation of the shock,i haa been described to us, by one who was in Lis-I a<- fK.jf r»pr iod. as exactly reocmbling the com*20i-'e’.cement of the earthquake in that.city, on th iof June, 1,007. A sec.-ml,_ but more partial s! 3w.-s felt at half-past eleven ; since which thrit#have had no return of this awful and unusual v -Jtion of Providence. The air, durin- the ni^ht, Jnmd and calm, with clear mpopTight; and theappearance after the shock was, that of a thin wlvapour settling on the surrounding hills.”(c Forres. AugustA most extraordinary thing happemxlto ithis quarter, about ten minutes befV/e eleven o'tlust night—nothing more tlian less th;tn a shock ,eartmpiake, which miglit last about the thira mlmite.1 The houses shook, and the inhnbilwere dreadfully alarmed, as nothing of that kindlappened before.—No damage was done, farthera good fright. We had happened not to be in« ■ l we had an opportunity of perceiving the wfifleets of the shock. The glasses on the table dias w ell as the tables ...id chairs—the doors also ra noise, and a few things in the garret rattled aI relieve in one house tlie shock was so great,the hells were set a-ringing by it,”Peterhead, August JA slight shock of an earthquake was feltnight, a few minutes before eleven o’clock. Ijast gone to bed, jnd noticed the concussion, wjth«at the time, being aware of its nature—The haseemed to be shaken, as if some heavy piece of Imture had been dragged on the floor of the adjoinapartment The hurling sound continued for aseconds. The clock on the stairs was observed bvotfier inmates ot the house to warn twice be!eleven .was struck ; and the rumbling was so genethat almost every family in the town and neighbohood was disturbed. Several people thought robfiwere breaking into their houses; and sundry otinterruptions were fortunately the only coifsequer21■ this tremendous phenomenon. The evening was:ite calm ; and a friend of mine, who w as rousedlto bed by the shock, looked at his barometer,nich, however, was not affected. There was no per-Iptible influence on the sea. The shock was felt atnserburgh.”“ Perth, August lath.“ On Tuesdajr night, about a quarter before elevenclock, two smart shocks of an earthquake, thecond of which succeeded the first at the interval ofIlf a minute, were felt in this city and over theeater part of the neighbourhood, particularly ine low grounds. The effects of this shock were per-'ptible for several seconds, and in some places wTerej violent, as to shake the windows, and cause a rat¬ing noise among the slates. Persons in bed felt ansible agitation, or rather concussion, in an upwardirection ; and if the bed happened to be in contactlith the wall, a lateral shock was also felt. In someDuses the chairs and tables were moved backwardslid forewards, and even the bells set a-ringing. Birds1 cages were thrown down from the sticks on which;ey perched, and exhibited evident signs of fear. Aiillow rumbling noise was heard by different indi-iduals, w'hich seemed to die away in the west. Ther at the time was clear and serene. Similar effects•ere perceived, about the same time, at Dunkeld, ine Carse of Gowrie, and Strathearn."22EARTHQUAKES AT ALEPPO.Aleppo, one of the most beautiful cities ofTurkish empire, containing 40,000 houses t200,000 inhabitants, has been visited by an earthquresembling those which laid waste Lisbon and C;bria, in the last century.The first and most severe shock occurred on j]3th of August, 1822, about ten in the evening, a l,instantly buried thousands of the'inhabitants urnthe ruins of their elegant mansions of stone, somewhich deserve the name of palaces. Several ot^shocks succeeded, and even on the 10th, shocks wstill experienced, some of which were severe. Tvthirds of the houses of this populous city are in rui.and along with them an immense quantity of vaable goods of all kinds from Persia and India htbeen destroyed.According to the first accounts of this event, whlthrough alarm may have been exagerated, the nuiber of the sufferers amounts to from 25 to 30,01Among them is one of the best men in the city, tImperial Consul-General, the Chevalier Esdras Vt|Piecotto.—Having escaped the danger of being bur iunder the ruins of his own house he hastened \visome of his family towards the gate of the city ; lxas he was passing a Khan, a new shock occurred, ama wall fell down, which buried him and those wihim. Tartars who have arrived at Constantinopfrom Damascus, report that they saw the whole poulation of Aleppo encamped in the environs. Tinstate that several other towns in the PaehalatAleppo and Tripoli, particularly Antioch and La.dicea, have been destroyed by this earthquake. T!captain of a French ship also lias reported that t\4trocks, at the time of the earthquake, had risen fro tthe sea in the neighbourhood of Cyprus, which is a <most of the same latitude as Aleppo.28is soon as the Arabs and the Bedouins of theian desert obtained information of the calamityI ch had befallen Aleppo, they hastened in hordesixereise the trade of plunder in that immense grave,irem Pacha, however, drove them back, and alsoicuted several Janissaries, who had committed de-dations among the dead bodies and ruins.Ifhe great number of unburied bodies, in this «x-,mely hot period of the year, has produced pesti-tial effluvia, and obliged the unfortunate inhabi¬ts to seek for refuge in some remote district.Naturalists have remarked that the earthquake atiqjpo was preceded and followed nearly at the sameie by other earthquakes at immense distances. Inlition to those of Carlstadt, in Sweden; and Dan.|i in England; an earthquake happened on theit of August, in Siberia. A private letter fromimsk, in Siberia, dated the 28th of July, (9th of.gust, new style) gives the following detail:—“AtPen minutes past ten at night, a violent earthquakes felt in our city. The shock was so violent thatould not write, but hurried out of my chamber,e house shook, and we heard a terrible noise. Thelectior. of the shock was from north to south. ItThe city of Latakia (the Laodicea of Holy Writ,),.ich is about seventy-five miles distant from Aleppo,i, like the latter city, been visited with an earth-ake, in the night of the 13th of August, which ha*ie great damage. A shock had been felt on the:h, and it was imagined that all was over, when,the 13th, about twenty minutes past nine in theening, a slight trembling was the harbinger of most•lent shocks that immediately followed. They bt>n from north to south, and then took a direction•m east to west. The shock continued for fortysends. The quarter in which the houses of theJ24Consuls are situated has suffered the most. A t Ipart of the city lies in ruins. Several villages ns)environs are wholly destroyed. Of the little towcGibelette three-fourths are destroyed. Its har sis chocked up by the ruins of the houses that !fallen into it. Three hundred persons have lost 1lives on thin occasion.earthquake at comrie,1822.Extract of a letter, dated Comne loth Apn ,' About half past nine on Saturday (the 13th insutwhile at breakfast, we were visited with thesmae.hock of an earthquake that has been felt mtieio'hbourhood for the last fifteen or twenty y tIt was accompanied by two very loud reportsapparently above our heads, and the other, vfollowed 'immediately afterwards, under our wThe noise of these, which was^ more terrific uthunder, lasted, I should think, fully thirty se JIt set our kitchen utensils a-ringing, and hr.down some of the covers of the pots and par-have felt much severer shocas in the ^«st I hbut not accompanied with such * noise. I he*,tion it created in me was exactly like that I haon the deck of a vessel on her guns being dischar i22.—This morning, between nine and ten o ■.a smart shock of an earthquake was felt at Dm 1accompanied by a rumbling noise resembhn .falling”of a building.—It was felt and heardStrathtay.finis.