£CHEAP TRACTS, No, 20.TRUE RELIGIONl SOURCE OF HAPPINESS;A SERMON:WITHTHOUGHTS ONHE SHORTNESS & IMPORTANCEOF TIME.O iMppy it the man who heartInstruction’* •warning voice ;And who celeitial Wisdom makethit early, only choice.Then what’s out life ? a vapour sure !Away it twi/ili/ flies ;The joys of life, how insecure fHow trifling such a prize !^ .. ,    . DUNFERMLINE :WUNTBD AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLERTRUE RELIGION A SOUJlCijjOF PLEASURE.Proverbs, hi. 17.Her re ays are ways of pleasantness., ancbiher paths are peace.There are few opinions which have 3tamed greater currency in the world, 11that religion is a vgy duR, austere, 1,melancholy -aSair; that, in ordeuimake the Christian profession in since5?and trutli, a person must bid adieu to*dthe pleasures of life, and to every enjoy irttthat renders life desirable. It is, ind<livery certain that serious, practical pi;5which has it basis in tlie fear and love?God, is -«n ntter enemy to that noisy Vjsriment that characterizes the laughteMfools, and whicli the scriptures assimilatethe ^craekfmg of thorns under a pot”!mere flash of the moment, occasioned byi3ebullition of the animal spirits, producinga mere transient bluster, and then vanishinginto emptiness. No; the happiness of aChristian is a serious thing. It consists inWhat nothing earthly gives, or can destroy ;The soul's calm sun-shine, and the heart-ielt joy.To be convinced, however, that the men ofthe world are carried away with a popularerror, when they imagine true religion tobe a gloomy thing, they need only to readthe Bible with an unprejudiced mind, and1 to give credit to its -sacred dictates. Theywould then presently find that it is repletewith encouragements, exhortations, andpersuas'ions to the children of God to a-boimd in the delightful exercise of praise,. and gratitude, and joy. Hence it is thatwe read such passages as the following:“ Rejoice evermore—and in every thinggive thrnks, for this is the will of God inChrist Jesus *eoncerning you.”—“ Rejoicein tine Li«ord always, and again I say rejoice.”1 will greatly rejoice in the Lord, mysoul shall he joyful in my God; for hebath clothed me with the garments of sal¬vation, he hath covered me with the robeof righteousness; -as a bridegroom deckethhimself with .urn aments, atxl as a bride a-di»iK:th htteelf with her jewels.”—** Withjoy shall ye draw water out of the wells of 'salvation. And in that day ye shall say,Praise the Lord, call upon his name, declare <bis doings among the people, make mentionthat his name be exalted. Sing unto the |Lord, for he hath done excellent things, letthis be known in all the earth: Cry outand shout thou inhabitant of Zion ; for jgreat is the Holy One of Israel in the midst 1of thee.”? IFrom this specimen of the grounds, and jmotives, and injunctions, to “rejoice and be ■exceeding glad,” which every where per- ijvade the sacred pages, we may at once per- *eeive how greatly those mistake the mat- iter, who suppose, that in order to be truly :religious, they must needs be melancholy, jBut as many false notions respecting this |important matter prevail even among pro- |fe;-sors themselves, I shall endeavour briefly 'to analyze the constituent principles of true 1religion, or godliness, and evince from the ,very nature of the thing, as well asfrom the divine testimony, that it js im¬possible to be truly religious without beingcomparatively happy; and that none but* Isuch persons can possibly be so. With aview to this 1 have chosen the words ofSolomon, as the ground of my discourse,who, speaking of Wisdom, affirms that5“ ways arc ways of pleasantness, andnil her paths are peace.” In attempting anillustration of the text, I purpose,I. To consider what is here meant bvWisdom.11. Illustrate the truth of the proposition,that “ Her ways are ways of plsasavtness,and all her paths are peace."I. We are to consider what is here| meant by wisdom, which is mentioned inver. 13. and referred to by the pronoun herin our text. By wisdom here we are notto understand that natural sagacity whichsome men are possessed of in a higher de¬gree than others; for there is nothingpraise-worthy in mere'natural talents, which,though a blessing in themselves, are oftenabused to the purposes of folly and vice, thevery opposite of wisdom,—Nor are Ave tounderstand by vdsdom, that cunning, orpolitical craftiness which is to be foundin the most wicked characters, and i*generally th: object of fear and suspicionrather than of esteem.—Neither does itsignify that avorldly acquired avisbom,III. 1 shall answer a feAv objections.I6of which Solomon says elsewhere, “ In much-tmxdom is much grief \ and he that encreasetMknowledge encreasetfi sorraiv," Eceles. i, L8jfor the reverse of this is affirmed of truewisdom, “ She is a tree of life to them tha*Jay hold upon, her; and happy is every omthat retaineth her," Prov. iii. 18.But the wisdom -here intended is thatwhich has the rea-u of tit-e i.aei) for itsbeginning, or chief-part, eh. i. 7- and ix. It)which imports the true knowlfdge and!supreme Eov/t: »f his character, with anesteem of his favour as our chiet happinessSo,he .that jindeth this wisdom is said tc“understand the jear ej the Lord," and tc■fiird “the knowledge of God," ch. ii. l>. Nojvas we know nothing of God but as he ha?been-pleased to, reveal himself, so the most)perfect display which God hath given ohhimself is in and by his Son, who is madeiunto us wisdom, and hath declared IrisiFather’s name, his grace, and his salvation,to the children of men, John i.18.—:xvii.-6.1 Cor. i. 30. To know the only true God,-and Jesus Christ whom he hath sent, is ipbe'wise .unto salvation, for it is life etemah,-and with this is connected the true fear andfoye of God.Further, the wisdom in our text is such«s influenceth ns to conform to_the 'will of7•God in heart and life. This will appearifrom the different things connected withlit, such as uprightness, righteousness,[judgment, equity, every good path, Prov.iii. 7, 9. liberality, patience under affliction,l&c. ch. iii. 9, 11. 12. so that it includes inlit both the principles and practices of sobrie¬ty, righteousness, and godliness, Tit. ii. 12.When the Psalmist says, “ The fear of the\Lryrd is the beginning of wisdom,” he ados,’ “ a good understanding have all they that doVhis commandments,” Psalm, cxi. 10. Thisis true wisdom, and every thing short of it,or opposed to it is folly, vanity, and vexa-: tion of spirit.if. It is affirmed of this Wisdom, that“ her ways are ways of pleasantness; and allher paths are peace.” ft is of the utmosti consequence to be thoroughly convinced ot' this The love of happiness is deeply im¬planted in our nature by God himself, andnothing can effectually attach us to theways of wisdom, but a strong convictionthat our own true happiness is connectedwith walking in them. Many will admitthat the ways of true religion ultimatelyland in happiness; but then they imaginethat all the way thither is a mos*t cheerless,melancholy, and unpleasant path. Thetact is, they do not relish religion itself;their minds are not formed for its enjoy-I8nents; but sat upon other objects whici elision prohibits ; and hence they consid*as inimical to their present happinesii^ut our text not only affirms that wisdomv/ays issue \u happiness at last, but thts iey are at present ways of pleasantnespatlis of peace to them that walk ithem. And to this the experience of tbsamts has borne witness in all'ages. Tb1 palmist says, “ J have rejoiced in the tenct thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.Psalm cxix. 14. “ / will delight myself rtinj com mar,detents which I have loved," vei >i<7- And in general lie says, “ The step ■(f a good man are Crdercd by the Lord; am\he delightcth in his ways," Psalm, xxxvii. 221Put it will also appear from the nature oteiv.gs that wisdom’s ways are ways apleasantness, and all her paths peace, if wconsider,:. That file principles: of true wisdomare pleasant, and productive of peace aimhappiness to the minds of those who reallyunderstand and believe thorn. These priiveipios are clearly revealed in the gospelrw?iich is glad tidings,of great joy. Herfi:we have such an amiable display of God:'and of his love in Christ Jesus towards!guilty sinners—such a full and free sal vanlion, every way suited by divine wisdom0and grace to onr guilty and deplorable con¬dition—such inestimable blessings of presentpardon ana peace with God, and such glo¬rious prospects of everlasting future happi¬ness ; that reason itself must admit thesetruths to be every way calculated to sup¬port the mind under a conscious sense ofguilt, and in the prospect of death andjudgment, which naturally appal the heartsof men ; and not only so, but also to fillthe believer of them with all joy and peace.Paul counted all things but loss and dungfor this excellent knowledge. His soulwas happy in it, amidst all the afflictionshe suffered on its account. This was alsothe case with those who at first believedthe gospel; and from the very nature ofthe thing, it must be so to the end.2. The dispositions and affectionsinfluenced by these principles, are a sourceof pleasure and peace to the mind, both intheir nature and effects. The effects ofthe Gospel believed, are love to God andmen, hope, joy, peace, humility, temperance,meekness, patience, gentleness, content¬ment, &c. These and such like are fruitsof the Spirit, and not only constituent partsof holiness, but of happiness. They arethe health of the soul; but their oppositesare its maladies, and its misery. The souliolIcan, ne\er be happy while ali.euated fromGod* and under the dominion of corruptand insatiable desires* malevolent disposi¬tions, and unruly passions; these are har¬pies that prey upon the peace of the soul,and fill it with disorder and misery. Whata happiness to be delivered from these, and <to have the fruits of the Spirit which are )life and peace to the soul.3. The conduct influenced by such 1principles, dispositions, and affections, isobedience to the revealed will of God, iand this properly speaking is to walk in 1the ways and paths of wisdom, for as the sfear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, iso a good understanding have all they tl wt do )his commandments. His cormnandroeiitsare all ways of pleasantness and paths ofpeace:, iov“ great peace have they tJuit love his t.taw; nothing shall stumble or ojffend them? 'Psalm, cxix. 165. The di vine precepts are:all conducive to happiness from their ivery nature * and this philosophy acknow¬ledges with respect to such of them asirespect morality. The principle of the law1is "love, and its precepts are only somany directions to the proper exercise of:love. We are always gratified and happyin acting suitably to our affections; andit is this free, happy, and delightfulobedience, that Christ demands ; “ If ye ~11ave me, keep my commandmentsZ’ John xLv.15.—If a vian love me, ha xmtL ke&p myvords," ver. 2SL and so Pauli says* “ toe lawif Christ constraineth usy 2 Coiv v. 1.4.Sow pleasant must that obedience besvhich is under such a constraint.—Theinstitutions op the gospel are all meana ofcorresponding, with God, and of holdingcommunion with him-; and therefore mustBe. deRghtfhl* and pleasant to those whoIbve him. “ Horn amiable are thy tohexneuales, O Lord of hosts !' my soul longeth,. yea,even, faintelh for the courts of the Latchmy heart and my flesh crieth out far tJutliving God,”' Psalm, Txxxiv. 1,. 2.—Thejoyful! testimony of conscience attends thepaths and ways of wisdom,, which* is nosmall source of joy. ‘"For our rejoicingiis this, the testimony of our conscience, that insimplicity and godly sincerity,, not pithfleshly wisdonir, hut by the grace of God", weHave had our conversation i t the world,, andmore abundantly to your-wardf 2 Cor. i 12‘.“Hut let every man prove His own Ivor ft ^ctnd then shall he have rejoicing in himselfatone, and not in anotherf Gah vi. 4.—The promise of special manifestation by*‘ the Spirit as the Comforter,, is made tfvI them who keep Christ’s, commandments ;a ££e that hath my commandments, and1 JteepetH them, he it is that toveffi me: and He12that loveth me shall be loved of my Fathnand I will love him, and will manifest myself Vhim. Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lor athow is it that thou will manifest thyself unuus, and not unto the world ? Jesus answcreaand said unto him, if a man love me, he wikeep my words: and my Father will love himand we will come unto him, and make ouabode with him," John, xiv. 21—23.—Thlively hope of eternal life attends the wayand paths of wisdom : “ And we desirthat every one of you do shew the sarwdiligence to the full assurance of hope un ito the end,” Heb. vi. 11. “ Who are kepby the power of God through faith untcsalvation ready to be revealed in the luststime. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, thouglnow for a season, if need be, ye are irheaviness through manifold temptationsthat the trial of your faith, being mudmore precious than of gold that pcrisheththough it be tried with fire, might befound unto praise and honour and glor)at the appearing of Jesus Christ: whomhaving not seen, ye love ; in whom, thoughnow ye see him not, yet believing, ye re¬joice with joy unspeakable and full ofglory : receiving the end of your faith,even the salvation of your souls,” 1 Pet. i.5—9.—Lastly, Wisdom’s ways are not onlyways of pleasantness and peace in thisI] 3vvorM, but they land in everlasting peaceland happiness beyond death and the grave.‘ Mark the perfect man, and behold thevipright, for the end of that man is peace,”‘I’salm, xxxvii. 37. Those who are made.vee from sin, and become servants to God.nave their fruit unto holiness, and the endeverlasting life, Rom. vi. 22. It is theway, or path, which leads to life in the(presence of God, where there is fulnessjoy. and pleasures for evermore. Psalm,^VL 31. Jims I have briefly illustratedi :he proposition in our text, and shall nowIIII. Answer a few objections.Eravs it >1 r i •' tt ft'l -•| 1. It is objected that “ Christ declare*(he gate is strait, and the way narrowhat leadeth unto life, how then can it be avay of pleasantness and peace ?” Matt. vii.;3, 14. To which I answer, that thistraitness and narrowness arises not fromrny thing in the nature of the way itself,out from something about ourselves which> very opposite to that way ; such as ourIgnorance, unbelief, pride, self-righteous¬ness, love of this present world, &c. Weretire freed from these things, wre shouldwalk at liberty, and find the way full ofPleasantness and peace.n2-. But “it is a way which requires;si’XF-dexial, wiiicft is rather gainful than'pleasant.” I answer, The pain of self-de-tirial is only felt by -sinfut self. Were- wejfree of unlawful- desires, and propensities,we should not feel:this'pain. 1 o deny our¬selves. ttnuawtuu pleasures is only fcthwart our corruptions^ the source of allour unhappiness. Tb deny ourselves- ineawfui. things' for Christ’s sake, is onfjter exchange a less for a greater good, whicfevery wise merchant will do with pleasure3. But “ the cross is part of wisdom’:ways, and is far from being pleasant.” Janswer, Though the cross attends the way;a£ wisdom in this world,. yet. it is noot pcroperly her ways, but tire effecfeof the. hatrettand opposition of the worldito them. Thucross iV not unpleasant to them who lov,Chwst. Tliey rejoice in tribulation,, and ubeing counted worthy to sufSsn shame' toiiifc* name,. Acts, v. 44- Rom v. 3i- Amsurely, those1 must be pleastmt pathSi win cmake1 mem joyful aftd- happy even in tribulations, which in: themselves, awsr no^joyous 1a* t- gnievorm-4. “ Sorrow and nac p e v-TiA xC e for sihdo not appear pleasant”' Ih should- bnoticed, however, that the sorrow and uiLsUiess of repentance is not tlie natiMe fruitI duty and obedience, but of sin—wor isa peculiar to Wisdonj’s, ways ; for natural[en hav e often, deep r-emorsei—The pWflr*i're of true, repentance far surpas^eth itsfiin ; for true l epentance is the exercise ofrce to God and batred of sin, and is ablays attended with, hope in Ids mercy,.andl ore or less of a sense of pardon, ft is qu*iteration to a state of happiness., feonajhich impenitence necessarily ox eludes; uak:;e the parable of the Prodigal Sonkluke xv.,5. But“the fact seems to contradict all this.ii airy who-seem very rdigBoits^. do not ap-i;ar very happy/’ Answer,. All who ap*car religious axe not really so; for manye very serious, w hex have never yet kmnrilie truth that makes free ; and so they arei bouring to establish their own rigditeous*b*, and are neither delivered from thei jilt of sin in their consciences, nor fromiHe dominion of sin in their hearts; con-liquently cannot have this peace and hapuImesK, foe they are not in. W isdom’s wjtys,gain, there are many who take up aofession of religion, while it never hadme chief place in their hearts* Such can-lot have peace and happiness in it- C©»-ience may prompt them; to comply' with16outward observances ; but if their hedoes not relish it, or if their affections :divided betwixt God and this world, thicannot be happy in Wisdom’s ways.1 may further add, that there are many ware sincere Christians, but their comfortmuch marred by ignorance—by the wetness of their faith—by judging of thstate from improper, or fluctuating e ldeuces, such as passionate emotions, &c. fand there are some who are constitution Ily of a melancholy cast. But none of th*i Ithings can fairly and justly be attributed 1Wisdom’s ways.Thus have I evinced the truth of t ■proposition in the text, that the ways iWisdom are the wrays of pleasantness, a4all her paths peace; and have also enddivoured to obviate the most plausible <ijections that are raised by the unbelievi jheart against the Christian profession. I Ime now, before I dismiss the subject, cal fly expostulate with those, if any such th( Ibe, who are so unhappy as to have imbiblthese unfounded prejudices against religi<t|or the ways of Christ. You are anxiomlseeking after happiness ; but alas, you fiivainly pursuing it, in a course whereBnever yet was found, and where indeed liis impossible in the nature of things y|tITlever should^ attain unto it! What a(nnercy must it be to you to be undeceivedi on a matter of such unspeakable impor-itance. Perhaps you expect to find sub¬stantial buss in the pi,kasures of theworld ; the gratification of your appetitesland fleshly lusts; by living in softness,'delicacy and effeminacy. But mark what{•Solomon savs of this from his own exper¬ience : “All things are full of labour:man cannot utter it; the eye is notsatisfied with seeing, nor the ear filledwith hearing,” Keel. i. 8. “Whatsoevermine eyes desired, I kept not from them,» withheld not my heart from any joy Out, behold all was vanity and vexationbf spirit, and there was no profit under theJun, ch. ii. 10, II. It is absolutely im¬possible for any to be happy while underithe dominion of tormenting, pernicious,oontradictory, unsatisfied and insatiablePassions. Perhaps you are seeking thismlessing in the pursuit of iuches* andhonour; but can these give ease to the soul,>pr is it possible to satisfy the inordinateTavings of covetousness and ambition ?Usten again to the experience of Solomon:u £at'nercr* n'e aho silver and gold, andhe peculiar treasure of kings and of theiyBOvinees —so that his possessions ex-eeded all that were in Jerusalem before18him, Eccles. ii. 7, 8. Exit he found hit!self just as much disappointed of the oject of his pursuit as ever. He sought.too, in the acquisition of science, who!certainly it is much more likely to pfound than in pleasure, riches, or honor:but what says he to this? “ I commune!with mine own heart, saying, L»o, I xjicome to great estate, and have ^btahntimore wisdom than all they that have ba;before me in Jerusalem: yea my he*!had. great experience of wisdom and knejiledge : And I gave my heart to kmiwisdom, and to know madness and folkI perceived that this also is vexation riApirit; for in much (worldly) wisdomimuch grief; and he that increaseth knotledge increaseth sorrow,” Eccles. i. 1*6—*», I-Be persuaded then, you who are sewing happiness in simitar courses, itlrat' (object is unattainable therein, and ere*rthe decision of the -same inspired teacilwhen he tells you in the words of‘(§text, that Wisdom’s ways, and they alo*are ways of pleasantness, and that aher paths are peace.” Hearken to it•voice that avow-speaks to you from heavnthrough the medium of the written wtfi“Come onto me, all ye that labour iore heavy laden ;«*! 1 wild .give yon rt19luake my yoke upon you And le»ru t>fic, for I am meek And lowly of heart,nd ye ■shall find rest unto ymir souls,”'iatt. xi. 28, 50. But beware how yourifle with subjects of such momentousloncern. “ Behold now is the acceptedime; and now is the day of salvation.”le that cometh to Jesus shall never hun-;er: and he that belie.vetli on him shalllever thirst, John vi. 35. Oh, that heaay never have it to say of any of you,1 Because I have called, and ye refused;■! have streatehed out my hand and ye re-;arded it not; but have set at nought allny counsel, and would none of my ne->roof; I also will laugh at your calamity,1 will mock when your fear cometh—iiecause ye hated knowledge, and didjiottui.se the fear of the Lord,” Prov. i.54-2©..1hV THE SHORTNESS AND IMPOR¬TANCE OF TIME.’’din iv. 14.—For mhat is your l\fe ? Jt .is Mien aI vapour^ that ajippareik for a Utile •lime, And ifitstI' vanisheth away.'I'd a reflecting nwiid,.Fegulfttedl)y tl>e word of Got!,tie oecurrences eveny day will .fur.oifih-abundant■ridenoetof-the shontataae.awt uncertainty of .human>fe, and the precarious nature of all earthly enjoy-20merits. ^ But there are certain periods in the revtiong of time, and particular dispensations of di.providence more immediately calculated to imp:the mind with a deep sense of this important trThe history of the world in all ages, universalperience, and general observation, unite in confirnthe testimony of Scripture, that “ tnait that ix bdrawcmaH is of few days, and full of troubleJob, xvIndeed there is no subject, the truth of which is nuniversally acknowledged, than the shortness andcertainty of human life. But while all are read;confess the truth, yet bow few, alas ! amongchildren ot men live as if they really believedimportant fact. And hence we see the languagithe poet verified to an exceedingly great degreeA!l men think all men mortal but themselves ’But though time be short, even as a hand-bre-lor a span, it is of infinite value, it is of incalcul.importance to the human race. Eternity sta’ljnaiE with everlasting importance to all. Tim jjthe prelude, it is the forerunner to eternity : it is ||introduction to heaven or hell; to everlasting feli*or to everlasting misery and woe. To one or otof these states it lias introduced all who have li\and will most certainly introduce all who arepresent living, or shall hereafter live upon the iof tne earth. How incalculable then is the imjtance of time, and yet how short and uncertain i*duration ! But though the importance of tii*ie ireadily appear to all, it should ever be remembeithat it can only be of real advantage to any as i1improved in the present moment. Where is-whole space of time which has elapsed since redawn ot the first morning till the present momejsWhere is the present hour ? Its moments are on Kwing, flying with rapid velocity ! And if we sfSwhere is to-morrow, or where is the next hour ? |$question is involved in uncertainty, because it p21|gs to futurity ; for who knows what shall be on• morrow, or even the next hour ? “ For what is:r life ?” saith the Apostle James, “ it is even apour, that appeareth for a little time, and thennisneth away ” May this solemn consideration leadj all duly to appreciate and improve the presentjment.Il’lie important lesson to be learned from the con¬juration of the shoitness and the uncertainty of;ie, is to improve it. “ It is appointed unto men:e to die, but after this the judgment.” “ For weJst all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ,t every one may receive the things done in his,ly, according to that he hath done, whether it: good or bad." The consideration of a futuregment produces very different effect*, accordingthe two different views taken of it by the twoi'erent classes of men, the righteous and the wicked,jiievers of the gospel, while in this world, likeier men, are the subjects of various and numerousfictions, of sorrow, of disease and death. TheyiOw that it is through much tribulation they mustper the kingdom. They know that all things workilether for their good ; and though “ no chasteningl! the present seemeth to be joyous but grievous;ertheless afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruit; ighteousness tp them that are exercised thereby."1 - consideration of the shortness of time, in oneit of view, is not a subject of regret to the believer,looks forward to death as the happy period which11 terminate the scene of distress and dissappoint-: it, with which he hath been surrounded in this! of tears, this valley of the shadow of death,knows that “ Jesus Christ hath abolished death,brought life and immortality to light by thepel.” He can adopt the language of the apostleim. iv. 6—8. “ For I am now ready to be offeredthe time of my departure is at hand. 1 havefongilt a -geofl flglft, I fijrve finished my cours»:>have k-ept the faith : Henceforth there is laid up.»e a creAvn of righteousness, which the Lord, lrighteous Judge, 'shall give me at drat day ; and*0 me only, but imto all them also that love hispearring." The experience t(f every believer, willfound more or less to correspond with that of |apostle in this passage, according to the strengthhi*s faith •in the divine testimony, and the convictwhich he has of things not seen. Paul doesmean that his death -should Ire a sacrifice for sin,Owly an evidence of his faith in Christ, of his attament to him, and df his belief of the excellencvthe truths which he taught. He was ready toby whatever means. He did not put off the coneeof-eternity till a dying hour. Tie knew whomh*td believed. He made his calling and election st¬and, therefore, Xv^s-jrrepiHred for death, and could irejoice in the prospect df it, patiently waiting forking of terrors. He knew that’death to him woulc.gainthat when the earthly hduse of his tabernis dissolved, he had a'btril'dmg of God, an housemade with hands, -eternal "in the heavens. He, th«fore, desired to depart and to he with Christ, wjjwas -for better than any thing under the sun |Jknew that the time of his departure was at hand,he whs wot pnt'toenrfftrsion. He was ready towith Simeon, ** IrrrB, mrw lettCst fhou thy sendepart in jieyee. according to thy .word : Tor nhave‘eeeti nhy •salvation.'’ lie was superioithe Tear -rtf -death, and, therefore, he speaks of ithe •most pleasHM tfnfl 'composed manner as a dqtum. A deiiamrre from a wofld off trouble, ofrow,df misery and-disappdhfi'&ueut,To a land dfpel*^pk>es, joy, trnspeakable-pleaHure Sbcl eternal')ehfy : a-departtire from “a tvasteSuitlhowtigg wil?n»ss, %o a land flwvifig hJlfh tifflk and Sioney : a )partefekVom-ari ■enemy’s rrmht5W,Jt(j*Ms fathef's ho)23nVnd hence Jn the prospect of death he enjoyed per-‘iect'prtice and tifti’fjnility’of rrrrnd. 5lark the perfect,ifull behold the upright, for the end of that man isjieace.Such was the comfortable state of mind in <whachhe apostle Paul contemplated his approaching disse¬nt i cm ; -and "Puch in‘some degree, will be the exper-vrree of-all, in the contemplation of death, who, with(he 'apostle, hare obtained like precious feith in the'■promises of God ; who are justified by faith in theighteousaess of Jesus, sanctified by his word andSpirit, and saved by his grace reigning throughirighteonsness *unto eternal life.But on the other hand, how different are fhedffeets(produced in the in hade of those who disbelieve thegospel, an die prospect of death and judgment. Ifthey reflect at all on tire shortness and uncertainty oftime, their minds are filled with pain and anxiety,fliiey hwve no well grounded hope of appearing withsafety before the Judge rtf the living and the dead.Indeed the very prospect-ef thiefillstheinguilty mind*with horror. They cannot endure it, and hence the.numerous sinful pleasures which men have contrivedto kffl time, and banish the reflections of futurityfrom their minds. In 'this way many succeed so lopgas health and pnoaperky are nomtinaed. But whenBorne mortal disease iseiaes their body, and the kWof terrors etares them in the iiiae, they have nothingto support their mind, and nothing can defend theirtnoFtal feofly-frem the stroke of death. « The wickedis driven away in his wickedness : bnt Ac tightennshath -bepc in Iris death.*’Others again who dtill tuare hardened .in thenrinfiddity and rebellion agsiust Got I, when death ttarm<hem m the face, ‘betake ihemsul.ves to the aniaerahfedsrttafiwe rtf anniblhitmn. Beft-sevh a refuge, or ra¬ther subterfuge, is vain . it is sure to misgive in thehour of extremity. It is impossible for a guilty sin-i ner to divest himself of the keen apprehensions of24immortality, of the lively forebodings of afuture state, It may with confidence beasserted, that there never was a man, thatthere never can be a man, who shall at?all times, and in every situation, be com-!pletely destitute of the feeling and con¬viction that he is an immortal creature.How foolish and vain then is it to attempt,to banish reflection from the mind respec¬ting the momentous concerns of eternity,Time is short, and deatn is certain. Weknow that we must all soon die. In theicourse of a few years at most, we shall all gothe way whence we shall not return. The.year which has now. begun its course, willdoubtless be that impoitant period of timewhich will introduce many of us into eter¬nity. The question then which each readershould ask himself is, “Am I ready to die ?”:and those only can answer this question insthe affirmative, who have fled for refuge tothe hope set before the guilty in the gospelof Christ, who are resting all their hopes onhis “finished work,” and rejoicing in his right¬eousness, as the sole ground of their hopeand confidence towards God. “He that be-llieveth on the Son hath everlasting life: andhe that believeth not the Son shall not seelife; but the wrath of Godabideth on him.”n... r.™.- i Hsod cili lo 'ibiirrki of ?3iff