[j| Wonder/ul and Surprifingsf AURA T i Y E1 OF' 9 *, > *pCapt. John Inglefield,) Concerning the lofs of hls Majef-ty’s .Ship Uie CENTAUR, of 7.4 Guns,j and the miracifFops prelervation of theirJe Pftinace, with the Captain^ Mafter, andf* ten.of the Crew, in a traverfe of near300 leagues in the Great Wcftern Ocean,with the;Names of the People faved.—v.Pi imcd and h^lby PATRICX MAIR, Falkirkf' <f--+ > 4—<-4—!••> <4—4>v   .   . > . -THESurprifing NARRATIVE, &c.l.THE Ceataur left Jamaica in rather a leaky con¬dition, keeping two hand-pumps going, and whenit blew frefh, fometimes a 1'pell with a chain-pump wasneceffary ; but I had no apprehenfion that the (hip wasnot able to encounter a common gale of wind.In the evening of the i6th of September, when the 'fatal gale came on, the fhip was prepared for the wordweather ufually met \\ ith in tV'H'e latitudes : the main-fail was reefed and let. the top gallant malls ftruck, andthe mizzen-yard lowered down, though at that time itdid not blow very Itrong. Towards midnight it blewa gale of wind, and the Ihip made fo much water, that Iwas obliged to turn all hands up to fpell the pumps ; theleak Hill increafing, I had thoughts to try the ihip beforethe fea, happy I ihould be determined : the improprietyof leaving the Convoy, except in the lalf extremity, andthe hope of the weather's growing moderate, weighedagainll the opinion that it was right. About two in themorning the wind lulled, and we flattered ourfelves thegale was breaking.Soon after, we had much thunder and lightning fromthe S. E. when it began to blow Itrong in gulls of wind,which obliged me to haul the main-fail up, the Ihip be-then under bare poles; tins was fcarcely done when% gull of wind, exceeding in violence every thing of thekind I had ever feen, or had any conception of, laid theIhip upon her beam-ends, they forfook the hold, and ap¬peared between decks, fo as to fill the men’s hammock*to leeward ; the Ihip lay motionlefs, and to all appear¬ance irrecoverably overfet; the water increafing fall,forced through the cells of the ports; from the prefluraof the Ikip I gave immediate directions to cut away theand mizzen-mafts, hoping when the (hip righted toar her ; the mizzen-maft went firft, upon cutting one.two of the langyards, without the fmalleft effedt onb ; the main-mad followed upon cutting the lang-rd of one (hrowd, and 1 had the difappointment to feeIp fore-mad and bowfprit following; the (hip uponIs immediately righted, but with great violence, ande motion was (o quick, that it was difficult for the;;ople to work the pumps. Three guns broke loofe on|e main deck, and it was (bmetime before they weretured ; leveral men being maimed in this attempt,very moveable was dedroyed, either from the (hotirown loofe from tire lockers, or the wreck of the deck,he officers who had left their beds naked in the morn-g, when the (hip overfet, had not an article of clothes>put on, nor could their friends fupply them. Thstads had not been over-board ten minutes before I wa«i formed the tiller had broke (hort in the rudder-head,. urd before the chocks could be placed the rudder itfelfIpas gone ; thus we were as much diladered as it was. ollible to be, lying at the mercy of the wind and lea,■ et I had one comfort that the pumps, if any thing,heduced the -water in the hold, and as the morning cam#fan (the 17th) the weather grew more moderate, the.wind having (nifted in the gale to N. W.At day-light I faw two line of battle (hips to leewardvane had lod her foremad and bowlprit, the other herimain-mad ; it was the general opinion on board theiiCentaur, that the one was the Canada, the other theI' Gloriaux ; the Ramalies was not in fight, nor morejl than 1S fail of Merchant (hips.About 7 o’clock in the morning I faw a line of bat-| tie (hip a-head of us, which I foon didinguidied to be theI Vide de Paris, with all her mads danding. I immedi-I ately gave orders to make the fignal of didrefs, holdingf: the enfign on the dump of the mizzen-mad, union down-[j wards, and fired one of the forecadle guns, the enfign' blew away foon after holding, and it was the only onewe had remaining, but I had the fatisfa&ion to fee theVide de Paris wear and dand towards us, leveral of thsmerchant (hips alfo approached us, and thole that couldfailed, and offered their aditWnoe, but depending* upo»T~4the king’s (hips, I only thanked them, defiring ifjoined Admiral Graves to acquaint him of our conditioiI had not the Imalleft doubt but the Ville de Parwas coming to us, not to have fufFered in the leaf!tire ftorm, and having 1'een her wear, we knew Ihe Wiunder government of her helm ; at this time alfo it w;moderate, that the merchantmen fet their top-lails, bapproaching within two miles (he palfed us to the wirnward ; this being oblerved by one of the merchant (hip(he wore and came under our (fern, offering to carr_any meffage to her. I defired the mailer would acquainCapt. Wiikinfon, that the Centaur had loft her ruddeas well as her mails, that (lie made a great deal of watesand I defired he would remain with her until the weather grew moderate. I (aw this merchant-.nan approachafterwards near enough to (peak to the Ville da,Par!S.but I was afraid that her condition was much worldthan it appeared to be, as (he was continuing upon thattack. In the mean time all the quartei-deck guns werethrowm over board, and all but 6 w'hich had let off thmain-deck ; the (hip lying in the trough of the lea laboured prodlgioufly ; I got over one of the (mall anchorswith a boom and ieveral guns, carriage-veered, out fromthe head-doors by a large haufer to keep the (hip’s bowto the lea, but this,, with a top-gallant iail upon thethe flump of the mizzen-maft, had not the defired effedl.As the evening came on it grew hazy, and fquals blewftrong ; we loll light of the Ville de Paris, but thoughtit a certainty that I Ihould fee her in the morning. Thenight was palfed in conflant labour at die pumps, fome-timcs thf wind lulled and the water diminilhed, when itblew flrong again the lea riling, the water increaled.Towards die morning of the 18th, I was informedthere was feven feet water upon the relfon, that one ofthe winches was broken, that two fpare ones would notfit, and the hand-pumps were choaked : thefe circum-flances were fufficiently alarming, but upon opening theafter-hold to get fome rum up for the people, we foundour condition much more fo.It will be necelfary to mention, that the Centaur’safter-hold was incloled by g bulk-head at the after-part•f the well, here were all our dry provifions and (hip’s -( 5 )m flowed upon twenty chaldron of coals, which had: fortunately been ilarted in this part of the {hip, and!( them the pumps were cotitinnilly choaked. Theain-pumps were ib much worn as to be of little ufe,d the leathers, which had the well been clear, wouldjj.ve lafted twenty days or more, were all confumed hijght. At this time St was obferved, that the water had|pt a pailage to the well, for here there were fo much,;4at it walhed againlt the orlop deck. All the rum,‘6 puncheons), all the provisions, of which there werei months in calks, were ftove. Having floated withi olence from fide to fide, until there was not a whole; ;fk remaining, even the flaves that were fotrtid uponI earing the hold, were moll of them broken in two oriree pieces. In the fore-hold we had a profpect of“rifiling fhould the fliip fwim ; wm had no water but''hat remained in the ground-tie.'-, aMd over this all the! ret provilions and huts filled with fait water were float¬ing, and with fuch motion that no man could with fafc-| f go into the hold There was nothing left but bailingIith Buckets at the fore-hatch-way and fifh-rOom, andreive large canvafs buckets wmre immediately employ-1 at each. On opening the fifh-room we were fo for¬mate as to difcover, that two puncheons of rum, whichilonged to me, had efcaped, they were immediately, gota, and ferved out at times in drams ; and had it not:en for this relief, and fome lime-juice, the people•Quid have dropped.We fbon found our account in bailing -, the fpareamp had been put down the fore-hatch-way, and animp (lifted to the flfh-room, hut the motion of the (hiphad wafhed the coals fo final 1, that they reached everyurt of the (hip, and the pumps fi>on choaked. Howe¬ver the wrater by noon had confiderably dimlnifhed by.vorking the buckets, but the e appeared no prolpeH ofliving the (hip if the gale continued ; the labour wTas too^reat to lipid out without water, yet the people worked''vithout a murmur, and indeed with cbearfulnefs.At ties time the weather vans nvvv moderate, anda couple of ("pars were got ready f >r flr:ars to get up aury-f iroimft ; but as the evening came on, the galeagain iacreafed. We had fieen nothing this day but the( 6 ) ,fhip who had loft her main-maft, and ftie appeared to Ias much in want of afliftance as ourfelves, havingguns of diftrels, aod before night I was told her fomaft was goneThe Centaur laboured fo much, that I had fcarcehope (he could fwim till morning, however by gre;exertion of the chain-pumps and bailing, we held oiown, but our fuffering f<?r want of water was vet |great, and many of the people could not be reftrain'from drinking fait waterAt day-light (the 19th) there was no veftel in figh ,and flafhes from guns having been feen in the night, \l ,feared the Ihip we had feen the preceeding day had four.!dered. Towards 10 o’clock forenoon, the weather gre*more moderate, and the water diminifhed in the hole .and the people were encouraged to redouble their efforto get the water low enough to break a calk of frejwater out of the ground tier, and Ibme of the molt refillute of the feamen were employed in the attempt. Anoon we fucceeded with one calk, which, though littlswas a feafonable relief. All the officers, paflengers an :boys, who were not of the profeilion of feamen, ha»been employed thrumming a fail, which was palled undethe Ihip’s bottom, and I thought had fqme effect. Thfhears were railed for the fore-maft r the weather looke*promifmg, and the lea fell, and at night we were able Urelieve at the pumps and bailing every two hours. Bythe morning (the 20th) the fore-hold was cleared of thiwater, and we had the comfortable promife of a fine dayand it proved fo, and I was determined to make ule of ifwith every poilible exertion.I divided the Ihip’s company, with the officers attendmg them, into parties to raile the jury-fore-maft, taheave over-board the lower deck guns, to clear thewreck of the fore and after holds, to prepare the ma¬chine for fleering the fliip, and to work the pumps Bynight the after-hold was as clear as when the Ihip waslaunched, for to cur aftoniffiment, there was not a fh ovc!full of coals remaining, go chaldron having been pumpedout lines the commencement of the gale. What 1 havecalled the wreck of the held was the bulk-heads of theafter-hold, filh-reom and fprit-rooms, and the Handersof the cock-pit; an immenfe quantity of ftaves, wood,and part of the lining of the fhip were thrown over¬board, that if the water (hould again appear in the hold,we might have no impediment in bailing. All the gunswere thrown overboard, the fore-maft fecured, and themachine which was to be hmilar to the one with whichthe Il’pwich was fleered, was in great forwardnefs, fothat I was in hopes, the moderate weather certain, thatI fhould be able to fleer the fhip by noon the followingday, and at leafl lave the people on fome of the wefterniflands. Had we had any other fhip in company withus, I fhould have thought it my duty to have quitted theCentaur this day.This night the people got fome reft by relieving thewatches, but in the morning (the 21ft) we had themortification to find that the weather again threafned,and by noon blew a florm. The fhip laboured greatly,and tire water appeared in the fore and after-holds, andencreafed; the carpenter alfo informed me that the leath¬ers were confumed, and likewife that the chains of thepumps, by conflant exertion, and the friction of the coals,were nearly rendered ufelels. As we had now no otherrefourcebut bailing, I gave orders that fcuttles fhould becut through tire deck to introduce more buckets into thehold, and all the fail-makers were employed night andday in making canvafs buckets, and the orlop-deck hav¬ing fallen in on the larboard fide, I ordered the fheet-cable to be roofed over-board ; tire wind at this time wasat W. and being on tire larboard tack, many fchetueshad been pradtil’ed to v ear the flrip, that we might driveinto a lefs boiflerous latitude, as well as approach the *weftern iflands, but none fucceeded, and having a weak j>carpenter’s crew, they were hardly fufficient to attendthe pumps, fo that we could not make any progrefs withthe lleering machine.Another lail had been thrummed and got over, butwe did not find its ufe ; indeed there was no profpe&butiij change of weather. A large leak had been difcovei edand flopt in the fore-hold, and another in the lady-hold,but tire fnip appeared fo weak from her labour, that itwas clear fhe could not laft long : the after-cock-pit hadfallen in, the fore-cock-pit the fame, with all the florc-•rooms down the ftem-poft was. lb loolc^ that as the (hiprolled the water rufhed in on either fide in great Hreaim,.which we could not Hop. Night car : on with the lamedifinal prolpedts as on the preceeding, and was palfed incontinual effort and labour. Morning came (the 22d)without feeing any things, or any change of weather,and the day wis fpent with the fame Ikniggles to keepthe (hip above water, pumping and bailing at the hatch¬ways and fcuttles. Towards night another of the chain-pumps was rendered quite ulelefs by one of the rollersbeing difplaced at the bottom of the pump, and this waswithout remedy, there being too much water in the wellto get to it. We alfo had but 6 leathers lemaining, fothat the fate of the fhip was not far off. Still the labourwent on without any apparent diipair, every officer tak¬ing his fhare of it, and the people were always chearfuland obedient.During the night the water encreafed ; about 7 in themorning (the 23d) I was told an unulual quantity ofwater appeared all at once in the fore-hold, which upongoing forward to be convinced, I found it but too true ;the Itowage of the hold, ground tier, was all in motion,ib that in a fhort time there was not a whole cafk to befeen; we were then convinced the fliip had fprung a frefhleak. Another fail had been thrumming all night, and 1was giving directions to place it over the bow, when Iperceived the fhip fetting by the head, the lower deckbow-ports being even with the water.At this period the carpenter acquainted me the wellwas ftnve in, deftroyed by the wreck of the bold, andthe chain-pumps difplaced and totally ufelels ; there wasnothing left hut to redouble our efforts in bailing, hut itbecame difficult to fill the buck - from the quantity ofHaves, planks, anchor-itocks, and yard-arm-pieces whichwere nowwafhed from the winge, and floating from fideto fide with the,motion of the fhip. The people, whotill this period had laboured as determined to conquertheir difficulties, without a murmur or without a tear,feeing their efforts ufelefs, many of them bin ft into tears,and wept like children. I gave orders for the anchors,of which we liad two remaining, to be thrown, over-boardone of which, the {pare anchor, had been moil furpriflng-Ijj'Iy hove in upon the fore-caille and mid-fh’p, when thiCi i inip had been upon her beem-ends, and gone through the11 decks. Every time that 1 \ifited t1 •» hatchway, I ob-l-j fervfcd the water encreafed," and at noon it wafhed even|i| with the orlop-deck ; the carpenter'aflured me the (hip• i could not fwim long, and propofed making rafts for the!] (hip’s company, whom it was not in my power to en-:i courage any longer with a profpeft of their fafety ; fome' appeared perfectly rffigned, and went to their hammocks! and defired their mef s-mates tojaftfthem in ; others wereI ladling themlelves to gratings and (mall rafts, but thei molt prelominate idea was that of putting on their• I bed cloth, s.The weather about noon had been fomething moderate,i and as rafts had been mentioned by the carpenter, Il thought it right to nftke the attempt, tho' I knew ouri, booms could not float the half of the (hip’s company in. fine weather, but we were in a (ituation to catch a draw,I therefore called all bauds together and told them myintention, recommending to them to remain regular and1 obedient to their officers. Preparations were immediate-;| ly made to this purpofe, the liooirs were cleared, the1 boats, of which we had ?, viz. cutter, pinnace, and a Jill oared yawl which we got over the fide. A bag of breadi. was ordered to be put in each, and any liquors that couldj:l be got at: for the purpofe of fupplying the rafts, I hadI intended my (elf to go into the 5 oared yawl, and the cox-1’wain was defired layget any thing from my (leward-thatmight be ufeful. Two men, captains of tops of the fore-:i caltle, or quarter mafters, were placed in each of them,to prevent any man from forcing the boats, or gettinginto them until an arrangement was made.While thefe preparations were making, the fiiip wasgradually finking, the orlop-deck having been blown upIby the water in the hold, and the cables floating to thegun-deck. The men had fometime quitted their employ-nfent of bailing, and the (hip was left to Ijer fate. In theafternoon the eatheragain threatned,and hlewin-ftrongfqilals; the lea ran high, and.one of the bo^ts, the yawl,(love along fide, and funk. As the evening approachedthe (hip appeared iitfle more than (iifpended in the water,there was no certainty that (he would fwim from oneflminute to another, and the love of life, which I believe!never (hewed itlelf better in the approach to death, began! 1now to level all diitindions; it was impodible indeed for ■any man to deceive himfelf with a hope of being laved on 1a raft in fuch a lea, befides that the (hip finking, it wasiprobable would carry every tiling down with her in a|1vortex, to a certain diltance.It was near J o’clock, when coining from the cabin I:jblerved a number of people looking very anxioully overthe fide, and looking myfelf, 1 law thatfeveral people hadj'forced the pinnace, and that more were attempting to get),in ; I had immediate thoughts of lecuring this boat, before!:(he might be funk by numbers, there appeared not morelthan a moment for confideration, to remain and^perilhl fwith the Ihip’s company, whom I could not be any' 1longer of ufe to, or feize the opportunity which teemed I:the only way of efcaping, and leave the people whom I . jhad been lb well latisfied with on a variety of occafions, J'that I thought I could give my life to prelerve them, thisi Jindeed was a painful conflift, and which I believe po manl 'can deferibe, nor any man have a juft idea of who has not:been in a fimilar fituation. The love of life prevailing,'I called to Mr Rainey the mailer, the only officer upondeck, defiring him to follow me, and immediately defeend-edinto the boat at the after-part of the chains, but not;without great difficulty got the boat clear from the (hip,,more than the number that the boat couldcorrv pufhing!to get in, and many jumping into the water. Mr Bay lie,a you.ig Gentleman of i J years of age, leaped from thechains after the boat had got off, and was taken in. The.boat falling aftern, the calm expofed us to the fea, and ’we endeavoured to put her bow round to keep her to thebreak of the fea, and to pafs to windward of the (hip, 1but in the attempt (lie was nearly filled, the lea ran toohigh, and the only probability of living was keeping herbefore the wind. It was then I became fenfible how little ;if any better, c-ir condition was than thole who remainedon board the {hip, at heft it appeared to he only a pro- fJongation of a m Ter able cxiftenee.( 11 ).We were all together twelve in number, in a leakyboat with one of the gun-wales ftpve in, near the middleof the Weftern Ocean, without compafs, without com-pafs, without quadrant, without fail, without great coator cloak, all very thinly cloathed, in a gale of wind witha gfeat running lea. It was now five o’clock in the even¬ing, and in half an hour we loft fight of the (hip: beforeit was dark a blanket was dilcovered in the boat, this wa*immediately bent to one of the ftretchers, and under it asa lail, we fcudded away all night in expectation of beingfwallowed up by every wave, it being with great diffi¬culty tliat we could fometimes clear the boat of the waterbefore the next great lea. All of us half drowned and(buttling, except thofe who bailed at the bottom of $heboat, and without having really perifhed, I am fure nopeople ever endured more. In the morning the weathergrew moderate, the wind having drifted to the fouthwardas we dil'covered byr the fun ; having furvived the nightwe began to recolleC ourfelves, and think of our futureprefervation.When we quitted the fhip the wind was at N- W. erN. N. W. Fayal bore E. S. E. 250, or 260 leagues, hadthe wind continued 5 or 6 days, there was a probabilitythat running before the fea, we might have fallen in withfome of the weftem ifiands; the change of wind was deathto thefe hopes, for (hould it begin to blow we knew therewould be no preferving life hut by running before the fqa,which would carry us again to the northward, where wemuft foon afterwards perilh.Upon examining what we had to fubfift on, I found Abag of bread, a fmall ham, a fingle piece of pork, two *quart bottles of water, and a few French cordials. Thewind continued to the fouthward for 8 or 9 days, andprovidentially never blew fo ftrong but that we couldkeep the fide of the boat to the fea, but we were alwaysmiferably wet and cold. We kept a fort of reckoning,but the fun and ftars being fometimes hid from us in the24 hours, we had no very good opinion of our navigation.We judged at tills period that wc had made nearly anE. N, E. jourle fince the firft night’s run, which hadcarried us to the S. E. and enpefting to fee the ifland efComo, in this however we were diappointed, and we fear¬ed that the ioutherly wind had driven us far to the north¬ward. Our prayers were now for a northerly wind;pur condition began to be truly miferable both fromhunger and cold, for on the fifth we had difeovered ourprovitions were nearly fpoiled by fait water, and it wasneceilary to go to an allowance. One biicuit dividedinto 12 morfels for brcaktatl, and the fame for dinner;the neck of a bottle broke off with the cork in, lerved fora glafi, and this filled with water was the allowance for34 hours to each man. This was done without any lortof partiality or dSiinftion, but we mull have peiifhedeven thus, had we not caught 6 quarts of rain water;and this we could not have been blelled with, had we notfound in the boat a pair of (beets, whxh by accident hadbeen put there, thete were fpread when it rained, andwhen thoroughly wet wrung into the kidd with whichwe bailed the boat. With this Ihort allowance, whichwas rather tantalizing than fuftaining, in our comfortlds jcondition we began to grow very feeble, and our clothes' continually wet, our bodies were in many places chaffedinto fores.' On the 13th day it fell calm, and foon after a breezeof wind Iprung up from the N. N. W. and blew to agale, fo that we ran before the wind at the rate of 5; or 6miles an hour under our blanket, till we judged we wereto the fouthward of Fayal, and to the weftward 60leagues,hut blowing ftrong we could not attempt to (leerfor it. Our wilhes were now for thodvind to Kiift to theweilward, this was the fifteenth day We had been in the^ boat, and we had onlv one day’s bread, and one bottle ofwater remaining of a fecond fupply of rain. Our fuffer-ings were now as great as hurpan (Irength, could bear,but were convinced that good fpirits were a better fup-port than great bodily (Irengtb, for on this day ThomasMatthews quarter-mader, the (touted man in the boatperidied from hunger and cold ; on the day before, hehad complained of want of drength in his throat, as lie 1expreded it, to fwallow his inorld, and in the night drankflit water, grew delinVis and died without a groan. As1 it became next to a certainty that we ihould ail peridi ini the fame manner In a day or two, it was fomewhat com-i fortable to reflect that dying of hunger was not lo dread-I ful as our imagination had reprei’ented ; others Irad com-[ plained of the fymptoms in their throats, feme had drunkJ their own urine, and all but myleifhad drunk ialt water.As yet delpair and gloom had been fuccefsfuily prohi-.-:| bited, and as the evenings doled in, the men had beeni encouraged by turns to hug a long, or relate a Itory in-i dead of a fupper, but this evening I found it impollible toj'i raife either. As the night came on, it fell calm, andi about midnight a breeze of wind fprang up, we girdledi from the weltward by the fwell, but there not being ai liar to be feen we were afiaid of running out of our way,II and waited impatiently for the riling of the fun to be our; compafs. As loon as the dawn appeared we found thei wind tobeexadly as we had wilhed, at W. S. W. andi immediately fpread our fail, running before tire fea at theI rate of 4 miles an hour. Our lalt breakfaft had beenI ferved out with the bread and water remaining, when• | Johir'Gregory, quarter-maftcr, declared with much con-1 lidlnce that he law the land in the S. E. we had fog banksi fo often which bad the appearance of land, that I did not: trull myfelf to beheve it, and cautioned the people, whoHj were extravagantly elated, that they might not feel the: eilefts of difappeintment, till at length one of them brokei| out into a molt extravagant fit of {’wearing,'which I could1 not reftrain, and declared he had never leen the land in hi*H life if what he now law was not it. We immediatelyilfhaped our com fe for it, though on my part with very: little faith; the wind freflinetl, tire boat went through thewater at the rate of y or 6 miles an hour, and in twohours the land was plainly feen by every man in the boat,but at a very great diilance, fo that we did not reach it) before 1 o at night, ft mull have been at leail 20 leagues“from us when firft dilcovercd, and I cannot help remark-ling with much thaukfulnefs on the providential favourllhowed to us in this inllance. In every part of the hori-<zon, except where the land was difeovered, there was f»thick a haze that we could not have difeovered any thingfor more than 3 or 4 leagues. Fayaiby our reckoning»ore E. aaid by N. which cuurle we were fleering, and( *4 }in a few hours, had liot the (ley opened for our prcfervati-on, we fhould have encreafed our diitance from the land,got to the eaftward, and of courfe mil’s all the xflands.As we approached the land our belief had ftrengthenedthat it was Fayal. • The illand of Pico,' wlvich might haverevealed it to us, had the weather been perfectly clear,was at that time capped with clouds, and it was fome timebefore we were quite fatisfied. Having traverfed for twohours a great part of the illand, where the lleep androcky (hore refufed us a landing ; this circumllance wastore With much impatience, for we had flattered ourlelvesthat we fhould meet with frelh water at the tirlt part ofthe land we might approach, and being difappointed thethirlt of lome had increafed anxiety almoft to a degree ofmadnefs, lb that we were near making the attempt toland in fome places where the boat mult have been dalliedto pieces by the lurf. At length we dil’covered a fifliingcanoe, which conducted us into the road of Fayal aboutmidnight, but w here the regulation of the port did notpermit us to land, till examined by the health officers;however I did not think much of deeping this night in t»eboat, our pilot having brought Ixs Ibme refrelhments ofbread, wine and water.In the morning we were vilited by Mr Graham, the !Engliffi Conlul, whole humane attention made us ample 1amends for the formality of the Portuguefe; indeed I can Jnever fufficiently exp-eli the lenfe 1 have of his kindnefsand humanity, both to mylelf and people, for I believe itwas the whole of his employment for leveral days, con¬triving the heft means of reiloring us to health, and it is |-true, I believe there never were more pitiable objefts, E.fome of the ftouteft men belonging to the Centaur wereobliged to be fupported through the ftreots of Fayal/ ;Mr Rainey the mailer and myfelf were I think in better 1health than the reft, but I could not walk without beingfupported; and for leveral days with the belt and mollcomfortable provffions of diet and lodging, we grew rath- |er world than letter.I. N. INGLEFIELD.'( r5 )Names of the Officers, and Men, who were faved mthe Pinnace.■. .apt. Inglefield, I Jolin Gregory, Quarter*Mr Thomas Rainey, Maft. 1 Mafter,Mr Robert Baylis, Midfh. | Charles M‘Cartey,Mr James Clark, Surgeon’s • Charles Flin, Seaman,Mate, i ———Gallohar,[ Timothy Sullivan,Captain’s 1 Theodore Hutchins,Coxfwain, | Thomas Stevenlbn.(jlames of the Officers left in the Ship, fuppofed tohave perilhed.ilokn Jerdan, I ft. 1 d f Thomas Hunter, Purfer, —•Treleven, 2d. j £  Williamfon, Surgeon,:-eorge Lindfay, 3d. j> 2 < Thomas Wood, Boatlwain Scot, 4th. ! ~ Char. Penlarick, Gunner, Bretton, Jth. J Cl lAllan Woodrift',Carpent*rJohn Bell, Capt. of Marines.Mates and Midffiipmert.Dobfon, Sampfon,Hay, Lindlay,Warden, Chalgiers,Everhart, Thomas,Minlhaw, Young.iprreft Copy of the Court-Martial held on Capt. Ingle-ifield, at a Court-Martial aftembled and held on boardijhis Majefty’s Ship the Warefpite, in PortlinouthIHarbour, on Saturday the 2 5th Day of January, 1783.mmodore William Hotham, lecond Officer in the(Command of his Majefty’s Ships and Veffels at Portf-imouth and Spithead, Prefident.CAPTAINS.T. Elphinftone, T. Fowler,T. Fitzherbert,Hon. W. Cornwallis,S. Reeve,T. Holloway,T T Dickworth,H. B. Bertie,S. Marftiall,S. W. Clayton,C. Collingwood,Hon T Lutterell■S Matthews, quarter-made.-, died hi the boat theJay before tliey law land( *6 )The Court in purfuance of an order from the Commifiioners, fpr executing the office of Lord High AdmiraofGreat Britain and Ireland, and dated tire 2 lit of rm Ifame month, for the inquiry intp the cauIeKmd circum |ftancesof the lofsof his MajHly’s Ihip the Centaur, byfeveral very heavy gales of wind, and for the trial 6i{Capt John Inglefield, her, commander, and the ofheer fand company who belonged to her at that time (he w a Jleft finking, on the 24th. of Septefnber ia(t, in Lit5 and longitude 43 de^ 20 min, for their coudii||uixiu tlnu: occailonHavfe'ip pioceCded to enquire into the caule and 1 uvcumftance.' of the lofsof his Majdty’s ihip tlie Centoand to try the laid Capt Inglefield, and’ the officers ar.3people who lv!ro<{' :! to her at tlve time Thb W as lb letllas above-u%.dtKiHcd, for their conduct upon th.at jccaii'ljaccordhiglv", and'liaring'heard the naarati.e of the ! fJCapt Ingleficki, Acquitted him, ^.sAhiqpL rdolute, anilexperienced officer, and as well lupfK rted by h’s officer|and (liip’s company, tlidv united exertions appearing'have been done to prefei ve his Ma;e Ihip the Cent afrom her melancholy fitex, the Coijrt#||ieicfoi-e adjudyThat the laid Capt Inglerieid, Ids: officers a,id eojnpanyibe acquitted of all blame f;; 5account of the lofs of hljMajefly’s late Ihip the Centaur, and they ate hereby]quitted accordingly.W. A. ButtcrwrorLh,.Jujgc-Advocate on this occafiwii1 Vr i n i s.•* ■