The JoHyGARLAND.To which is added,1 Get up & bar the Door,ANDThe Lovely Nymph.Falkirk, Printed by T. Johnston. 1815.THETOLLY WEAVER’S GARLAND.In former times, when meal w^s dear,we carried on a 11 ir, man !Bat n >w, fmce markets they have fallen,it Hopped a’ our birr, man.We often to the tavern went,where we for wine did ca% man ;But now the vi&ual fells so low,we scarce small ale may fa’, man.As for the poor, we care na by,\h >’ far beneath the earth, man,They bury’d were, could we obtainthe m*ney and our mirth man.This will appear, as may seem clear,when meal at double price, man,Would not you please,but you must hae’tAdvanced up to thrice, man.Our fins, we own, they are the causewhy we sullain’d (his ill, man ;But we’ve resolv’d our wicked waysho mare for to fulfill, man.Why then, O farmer ! why such hatesgainfl both good and ill, man ?( 3 ). Could ye think in this to succeed,and ay to get your will, man ?1 Nay, but you muft learn a differencetu put the two between, man ;i It is so here, and after willmore plainly yet be seen, man.The precious and the vile are thosethat never can agree, man ;I Nor ought they to be serv’d alike,by either you cr me, man.1 Know thou that righteous Providencedoth unto thee impart, man,. A juft reward for thy misdeeds,and hardness of thy heart, man.O Bonnieparte, the farmer’s friend,who did their trade advance, man,Why art thou now s* low become,and turned out of France, man ?Thou, who the nations of the worlddid sore with war oppress, man,Art now a little man become,I wonder ye’re no less, man :! Fur had I had the management,I vow and swear that I, man,( 4 )Had certainly your head cut oft’,and made you quickly die, man.For O the ills that ye conceiv'd,and deeds that you have dene, man lIt were enough to fright a knave,And make him your ways fhun, man.For ye've done ill to our own trade,and made it very scarce, man ;Which sets my spirit up on edge,and makes me vvonderous fierce, man!Yan burnt our webs, when sent t<> Franee,or where-ever you had power, man;I hope you do repent that deed,now in your Elba bower.You Ihut the p. rts, and ruin’d tradeamong the nations a’, man,Till from your tyrant throne you fell,and got a dreadfu’ fa’, man.But after all I do not Hand,your bad ways to rehearse, man,But shall unto the farmer givea word or two in verse, man.Now, farmer, when Bonnie’s away,can e’er you think that ye, man,€( 5 )Snail Ese the meal at three a-peck,nae, nae, it ne’er lhall be, man.Why then, O sorry farmer, whydo ye hing down your head, man,And look i’ the ground vvi’ fie dismay,as if you were quite deaxi, man iI trull it is for fin that yein heart are so aggriev’d, man;And not fur to rcfl^dl that yethe poor have n t mischiev’d, man.Up wi’ your heart, the time may come,when meal lhall ri<e a-wee, man;But never 1 < k t«* see’t againam unt ro findings three, man.Then, honejt farmer, when thy trade<-n earth grows very 1 w, man, ,Endeav ur ye n higher thoughtsyour time f^r to belt w, man:This would aflf rd you comfort, whentime’s things d th pass away, man ;And ever-more comfort your heart,time without end, I say, man.This I, from my experience,do speak, and to ycu Ihow, man ;n( 6 )And evermore I’ll happy be,th*’ I had naught below, man.N*w, Gentlemen, who may attend,I hope ydu plainly see, men,The truth of what I here relate,’tis plain, as plain’s can be, men.GET UP AND BAR THE DOOR.It fell upon the Martinmass time,and a gay time it was then.When our goodwife got puddings to make,smd Ihe’s boil’d them in a pan.The wind fae cauld blew fouth and north,and blew into the floor ;Qu->th our guodman to our goodwife,Get up and bar the door.My hand is in my hulTy’f fkapGoodman, as ye may fee ; (years,An’ it Ihou’d nae be barr’d this hundredits no be barr’d for me.By P. M. W. F. 1815.They made a pattion ’twe:n them ttvi,they made it firm and fure,That the firft word whae’er fhou’d fpeaic,ihou’d rife and bar the doer.Then by there came two gentlemen,at twelve o’clock at night,And they could neither fee houfe nor hall,nfcr c al, nor candle-light,i N.. w, whether is this a rich man’s houfe,or whether is’t a poor ?But never a word wad ane o’ them fpeak,for barring o’ the door.And firft they ate the white puddings,and then they ate the black;Tho’ muckle thought the gudewife toyet ne’er a word ihe fpike. (herfel,Then faid the one unto the other,Here man tak ye my knife;Do ye tak aff the auld man’s beard,and I’ll kifs the gaodwife.But there’s nae water in the houfe,and what ftiali we do*than ?jWhat ails y^.u at the pudding-bree,that beiis into the pan ?•( s )O up then ft&rted oar goodman,an angry man was he !Will ye kifs my wife bsfare my een,and lead me wi' pudding-bree ?Then up and darted our goodwife,gied three flcips on the floor ;Goodman, you’ve fpoken the firft word,get up and bar the door.^ oo '-u'* UTi ur, t^r> u»-. #THE LOVEI-Y NYMPH.Lovely Nymph, afluage my anguifh ;at your feet, a tender TwainPrays you will not let him languifh ;one kind l>ck would eafe his pain.Did yt«u know the lad that courts yon,he not long need fue in vain;Prince of fong, of dance, and fports, youyou fcarce will meet the like again.FINIS.Falkirk—T. Johnston, Printer.