Peace & Plenty:O R,Britons RejoiceTO WHICH ARE ADDED,I Dick and Nell; or, Linky Lakky.THAT’S THE REAL DA\DY.I N A N NY OF T .H E . H l L L.'THE T O W N M I S S.1G L A S G O W>TRIM T 2 D BY J.? rd M. F O B J2 RTSO N,( * )PEACE and PLENTYjO R,BRITONS REJOICE.BE thankful, O ye Britons,be cheerful, and rejoice.Long; wilhed for bleflings now combine,to gratify your choice.Meager wants now disappear,•' and Plenty takes its place yAnd bloody wars, with ail its ills,gives way to fmiiiog peace.chorus.Rejoice and fing, whiift bells do ring,and h^iyhat happy day ;That France and Britain did agree,' no more to kill and flay.Reports of fights and lieges,no mere allails our ears jNo -nore the Son’s difaftrous fate,calls for the Mother’s tears.The Sailor's Wife her abfent Spoufe,no more in tears of grief will mourn;And children will no more dcfpair,their father's fafe return.Chof. Rejoice and fing, fee.I The Maid her abfent Lover,no longer will deplore ;,! Nor lift of kill'd and wounded,affl d our feelings more.i AH bloody confli&s now will ceafe,by land as well as fea;No more will French and EngiiUi fisetatheir bloody flags display.Chor, Rejoice and fing, &c.Since Peace once more our .llle doth Uif^and war is at an endLet them who have Relations loft,rej ice to fee a friend.I! Forgeting war’s deftru'S’ve rage,let Joy, of Grief tak.- n1 ire ;And Britons all rejoice :.nd fing,by this moft happy pca^e.Chor. Rejoice and fin , S;c.. May ail our Tars and Soldiers,for their toils and fears,RtfpeS.-d be by all at home,and welcom’d from the wars.May dritith Commerce profp’rous be,may wants ne’er pinch us more;GOD fave the K I iNL i, he lives to feePeace tpread his E MPI RE o’er. ‘CH O R U S.Rejoice and fing whutt bells do nng,ai d hail that happy day ;That r ranee and B. tain d’d agree,up more to kin and flay.Dick and Nell, of Linky Lanky.O L D and peevifli is tlie weather,^ 1 hope this night will, bring no harm.Says LVick to Nel! we*ll \y together,and w’rhkeep e^ch r.ther warm.Oh, then ve will roll in foft delight*- i’il turn ty my love and kKrher too,V/e will huddle cuddle all the night,and do as fath.er and mother do.CHORD S.With a Aim flam I woo’d go to my love,linky lanky, there oh ! there,.'With a tv/inketer, twanketer, tal lal lal,ha, ha, ha, he lov’d her dear.No fays Nell, I’ll ly with no man,for 1 have often' heard it faid.Men have got poifen to give to women,and to be pctfpn’d I’m afraid.Or elfe ye might roll in foft delight,you might turn to yourloveand kifs nertoo.You might huddle cuddle «!J the night,and-do as father and mother do."With a Aim flam t woo’d go to my love,Hnl^y lanky, there oh ! there.With a twinketcr, tv/anketer, tal lal !al,h», bn, ha, he lov’d her dear.With a Aim flam I wou’d, etc.Oh ! fays Dick, .the poifon is pTeafanfj-fo pretty n dofc you never bad.-C 5 )It'wculJ get us both lads ace lafies,that woVd Rj;\ke you main and I’d be dad.Oh! how we would roll in folt delight,I’d turn to my love and kifs her too,-I We wou’d huddle cuddle all the night,and do as lather and mother do.>Viih a ilim ilam I wou’d, etc.I Many perfuafions Dick made ufe of,but all his rhetorick was in vain,J Unlefs that he v/ou’d promife to marry’r,not one kifs could he obtain :‘I Or elfe he might roll’d in loft delight, (too,he might turn’d to his'love and k'jVd her! He might hutldl’d cuddl’d all the night,and done as father and mother do.With a film flam 1 wou’d, etc.1 The very next morning they were marry’d,and to be poifon’d iSfell was not ’fraid,For Dick and Nell they lay together,and Dick he got her maiden-head:Oh then they did roll in fofc delight,he turn’d to his love and kifs'd her too.They did huddle cuddle all the night,and did as father and mother do.# CHORUS.• With a Aim flam he did go to his love, *linky lanky, there, oh ! there.With a twinketcr twinheter, tal lal lal,ha, ha, ba, he lov’d her dear.That's the REALDANDV".Tii E cant word throughout the town.So fam’d and of fo great renown,Will (hortly be, I hope, pull’d down.It took its rife from Brandy.The reafon is eafy uuderftoodA cobler’s wife thought Nantz fo good.Who* as (he fip’d the pleafcnt food,Cry’d ifn’t tint the Dandy.The CoMer pafling by the {hop.To tafte the Cordial in did hfcp,And finding Nell had got a drop,He fpy’d a itick moft handy. •And round the Beggar-maker’s place.With it poor Nell he did fo lace.Till fhe with iad diitorted fa e.Cry’d, Jobfon that’s the Dandy.Of this word he could make no fenfc.So {tiaightway dragg’d his charmer hence,But firft he paid dear twenty pence,i hat {he had drunk in Brandy.And as he haul’d her through the ftreet,Fqj (he, the child, had loil her feet,To every perfon (he did uiCet,Cry’d that’s the real Dandy. qA chimney {weeper heard the fun.As he through the fireet for foot did -run.Crying, fire, and lmokf’l we’re all undone,By drinking Rout at BrSndy.NANNY of the H ILL.ASSIST me, ev’ry tuneful bard,oh lend me all your Ikill;j In cboiceft lays, that I may praife,fweet Nanny of the hi!!,fweet Nanny of the hill,l| How gay the glitt’ring beam of morn,that gilds the cryftal rill!But far more bright than morning light,fiiioes Nanny of the hill. Dear, etc.The gayeft flower, fo fair of late,thj ev’ning damps will kill jBut every day more frefh and gay,blooms Nanny of the hill, blooms, etc.] Old Time arrefts his rapid flight,and keeps his motion Hill,i Relblvcd to fpare a face fo fair,as Nanny of the hill. as Nanny, etc#I To form my Charmer, Nature hasexerted all her fkiil,]Wit, Beauty, Truth and rrfy Youth,deck Nanny ot the hill. deck, etc.And now around the feftive board,the jovial bumper fill,Each take his glafs to my dear lafs,fweet Nanny oi the hill.Dear Nanny of the hill.C-s ), iMiimipi'n i||i \jl ", i m")THE TOWN ?>1 I S S,TUNE—MY FOND SHEPHERDS OF LATE.MA R I. A my beautiful maid,let the bulwark of Virtue appear.Shun the crafty and treacherous black,who ftrives for to ruin each lair :When a woman but one thing doth grant, jwhat then my dear can Hie deny ?O nofaing. no nothing the tyrant doth want,:but readily (he mult .comply.Though marry exclaim ’gainft the fah,tl)at thry firft their ruin began,.The truth it doth plainly appear,thofe girls were firft ruin’d by man.By flatteries the damftl complies,•'with a promife of marriage conleuts, (priz*,While the traitor.the traitor triumphs o'er theand the fond fair too late ms repents.Then the tyrant he does her compel,his luft at all feafons to ferve.If marriage Che mentions, lie’ll tell,a hufband Ihc ne’er can deferve.For rnodefty’s bounds flie has pafs’d,ho miftrefs flial! e'er be his wife,On the town,on the town,then her lot it is call,in a Bagnio Are endeth her life.GLASGOW, ’IPrinted by T. and M. Rabertfe'n, Sakararket, i9o? i