THE LIFEOF THE HONOURABLECOIL. J^MES GAMmMFM.■WHO WAS SLAIN AT THE BATTLE OPPRESTON -PAN SSeptember, 21a/, 1745,CFEFNOCK:Frmud b] ft. bCQ'IT.THE LIFEOF THE Iioy OUR ABLECOL. JAMES GARDINER.C<OL. JAMES GARDINER was the son of> Captain Patrick Gardiner, who served many kyears in the armies of King William and Queen uAnne ; and died abroad with the British forces in fGermany.The Colonel’s mother was a lady of very excellentcharacter ; but it pleased God to exercise her withuncommon trials; for she lost not only her husbandand her brother, in the service of their country, butalso her eldest son, M. R. Gardiner, on the daywhich completed his 16th year, at the siege of Na¬mur, in 1695. But God blessed these afflictions asthe means of forming her to an eminent degree ofpiety.The second son, the subject of this Memoir, wasborn in Linlithgowshire, Jan. 10, 1687-8 ; the me¬morable year of the glorious revolution, in defenceof which his own life was eventually sacrificed.In early life his mother took care to instruct himwith great tenderness and affection in the principlesof true Christianity. While at the school at Linlith¬gow, he made a considerable progress in literature.In the younger part of his life, the good effects ofhis mother’s prudent and exemplary care were not soconspicuous as she hoped ; yet there is great reasonto believe they were not entirely lost. Could shehave prevailed, he would not have thought of a mili¬tary life j but it suited his taste ; and the ardour ofhis spirit, animated by the persuasions of a friendwho greatly urged it, was not to be restrained. Norwill the reader wonder at this, when he knows thatthis lively youth fought three duels before he attaki-£d the stature of a man ; in one of which, when buteight years ojdj he received from a boy much older( 3 )than himself a wound in his right cheek, the scar oiwhich was always very apparent. This false senseof honour might seem excusable in those unripenedyears, and considering the profession of his father;but he often mentioned it with regret. And afterhis conversion he declined accepting a challenge withthis truly great reply, which in a man of his experi¬enced bravery, was exceedingly graceful : “ I fearsinning,” said he, “ though you know I do not fearlighting.”He served as a cadet very early ; and, at 1 !■ yearsold, he bore an ensign’s commission in a Scotch re¬giment in the Dutch service ; in which he continuedtill 1702, when he received an ensign’s commissionfrom Queen Anne, which he bore in the battle ofRamalies, in his 19th year.On this occasion, our young officer was command¬ed on what seemed almost a desperate service, todisposess the French of the church-yard at Ramilies,where a considerable number of them were posted toremarkable advantage. They succeeded better thanwas expected, antTMr. G. was glad of such an op¬portunity of signalizing himself. Accordingly, hehad planted his colours on an advanced ground, andwhile he was calling to the men, (probably in thathorrid language which is so peculiar a disgrace to oursoldiery,) he received a shot in his mouth, which,without beating out any of his teath, or touching theforepart of his tongue, went through his neck. Notfeeling, at first, tiie pain of the stroke, he wonderedwhat was become of the ball, and, in the wildness ofhis surprise, began to suspect be had swallowed it ;but, dropping soon after, he traced the passage of itby his finger, when he could tiuccver it no etherway.This accident happened about five cr fx in theevening, on the 23d of May, in the year 170(j ; andthe army pursuing its advan tages against the French*without regarding the wounded, our yqang yffictr( * )lay all night in the field, agitated, as may vrell be sup¬posed, with a great variety of thoughts. When lie re¬flected upon the circumstances of Ids wound, that a bailshould* as he then conceived it, go through his head,without killing him, he thought God had preserved himby a miracle ; and therefore assuredly concluded that heshould live, abandoned and desperate as his conditionthen seemed. Yet had he littte thoughts of humblinghimself before God, and returning to him after th?■wanderings ol a life so licentiously begun. But hopinghe should recover, his mind was taken up with contriveances to secure his gold, of which he had nearly 20 pis¬toles about him, and had recourse to a very odd expedi¬ent. Expecting to be stripped, he took out a handfulof clotted gore,’ of which he was frequently obliged toclear his mouth ; and putting it into his left hand, hetook out his money, and, shutting his hand, besmearedthe back of it with blood ; in this position he kept it,till the blood so dried, that his hand could not easilyfall open.In themornir-v the French, who were masters ofthat spot, though defeated at some distance, came toplunder the slain, and seeing him, to appearance almost,expiring, one of them was just applying a sword to hisbreast, to destroy the little remainder of life ; when, inthe critical moment, a cordelier, who attended them, in¬terposed taking him by Ins dress for a Frenchman, andsaid, 11 Do not kill the poor child.” Our young soldierheard all that passed, though he was not able to speakone word ; and, opening his eyes made a sign for some¬thing to drink. They gave him a sup of some spirit-ous liquor, which happened to be at hand ; from whichhe said he derived move sensible refreshment than hecould remember from any thing he had ever tasted be¬fore or since. Then asking, by signs, the friar to leandown his ear to his mouth, he employed the lirst ef¬forts of his feeble breatli in telling him (what, alas Iwas a contrived falsehood) that he w^s nephew to the.govarnqr pf iriuy, a neutral town in the neighbourhood,.Jiftd that. If they could convey him thithfif, he did ttofrdoubt but his uncle would liberally reward them. Hehad indeed a friend there, but the relationship was pre¬tended. However, on hearing this, they laid him oh asort of hand-barrow, and sent him with a file of nvus-queteers towards the place, but the men lost their wayand got into a wood toward* the evening, in which theyv/ere obliged to continue all night. The poor patient’*wound being still undressed, it is not to be wonderedat, that by this time it raged violently. The anguish ofit engaged him earnestly to beg that they would eitherkill him outright, or leave him there to die, without thetorture of any other motion; and indeed they Vv'ere o--bliged to rest for a considerable time, on account oftheir own weariness. Thus he spent the second nigh;in the open air, without any thing more than a commonbandage to staunch the blood, and he often mentionedit as a most astonishing providence, that he did no:bleed to death.judging it quite unsafe to attempt carrying him toHuy, whence they v/cre now several miles distant, Jitsconvoy took him early in the morning to a cos:vent inthe neighbourhood, where he was hospitably received,and treated with great kindness and tenderness. Butthe cure of his wound was committed to an ignorantbarber-surgeon, who lived near the house. The. tentwhich this artist applied was almost like a peg driveninto the wound ; yat, by the blessing of God, he reco¬vered in a few months. The lady abbess, who calledhim iter son, treated him with the a licet ion and care ofa mother. Fie received a great many devout admoni¬tions from the ladies there, and they would fain havepersuaded him to acknowledge so miraculous a dclivcr-enec. by embracing the Catholic Faith, as they werepleased to cail it. But, though no religion lay near hisheart he had too much of the spli t of a gentleman,lightly to change that form of religion, which he woreloose "about him; as well ?.= too much good sense, toswallow the absurdities pi. - .pery.1Wb*n Kis liberty was regained by an exchange of^risonrrs, and his health established, he was rnr fromrendering unto the Lord according to the mercy he had•'■experienced- Very little is known of the particulars ofthese w:ld and thoughtless years which lay between the3 9th and 30th of his life •, except that he experiencedth-. divine goodness in preserving him in sevefal hotmilit. ry actions ; and yet, these years were spent in anentiie alienation from God, and an eager pursuit of sen¬sual pleasure as his upreme good.Amidst oil these wandrings from religion, virtue, andhappiness, he approved himself so well in his militarycharacter, that he was made a lieutenant in .1708 : and,after several intermediate promotions, appointed major_ . it l  1 i y* T tiof a regiment, commended by the Earl of Stair. InJanuary 1729-30, he was advanced to the rank of lieu-tenant-coionei in the same regiment: and here continu¬ed till April 1743, when he received a colonel’s com¬mission over a regiment of Dragoons, at the head ofwhich he valiantly fell, about two years and a half afterhe received it.We now return to that period of his life, winch pas¬sed at Paris, where he resided in the family of the Earl(of SnVr, with some interruptions till about th.e year t < 20.Flie E.ivFs favour and generosity ftvadc him easy mhis affdrs, though he was, part ot the time, out ofcommission, theVcgimcnt to which he belonged being.disbanded. This was, in all probability, the gayest partof his life, and the most criminal. Whatever good ex¬amples he might find in the family where he lived, it iscertain that the French Court was one of the most dis¬solute under heaven. What, by a wretched abuse offlanguage, have been called intrigues of love and gal-;lantry, constituted, if not the whole business, at leastthe whole happiness of his life ; and his fine constitu¬tion, than which, perhaps, there was hardly ever a bet¬ter, gave him great opportunities of indulging himself'in those excesses; while his good spirits enabled nmito pursue his pleasures, in such a manner, that multi-jrtu<ks Envied him, and calfed him hy a dreadful kmA <rocmpliment, “ The happy rake.” , .Yet the cheeks of conscience, and somd re mam mgprinciples of so good an education, would br’^on his most licentious hours ; and when seme*dissolute companions were once congratulating hi.’*1on his felicity, a dog happening at that time to a.into the room, he could not foibear groaning inwardly,and saying to himself. “ Oh ! that I were that dog !"Such was then his happiness, and such perhaps is thatas hundreds more, who bear themselves highest in thecontempt of religion, and glory in that infamous servi¬tude which they afreet to call liberty. ,Yet in the most abandoned days, he was never fondof intemperate drinking, from which he used to thinka manly pride might be sufficient to preserve persons,of sense and spirit: so that, if he ever fell into any ex¬cess of tliat kind, it was merely cut of complaisance.Hi^ frank, obliging, and generous temper, procuredhim many friends; and those principles, which render¬ed him amiable to others, not being under the directionor wisdom and piety, sometimes made him more uneasyto himself, than he perhaps might have been if he couldentirely have outgrown them; especially as he was ne¬ver a sceptic in his heart; but still retained a secret ap¬prehension, that natural and revealed religion was found¬ed in truth. And with this conviction, his notoriousviolations of the most essential precepts of both couldnot but occasion some secret misgivings of heart. Hiscontinual neglect of the great Author of his being, ofwhose perfections lie could not doubt, and to whom heknew himself to be under daily and perpetual obliga¬tions, gave him, in some moments of involuntary re¬flection, inexpressible remorse; and this, at times,wrought upon him to such a degree that he resolved hewould attempt to pay him some acknowledgements^Acordingly, ior a few mornings he did it; repeating,in retirement, some passages out of the Psalms and ci¬ther scriptures, which he still retained in his memo'-’ ■,.^nd owning, In a few strong words, the many merclefand deliverances he had received, and the' ill returns hqfoad made for them.But these strains were too devout to continue longin a heart as yet unsanctified : for, how readily soeverhe could repeat such acknowledgments of the divinepower and goodness, and confess his own follies andfaults, he was stopt short by the remonstrances of hisconscience, as to the flagrant absurdity of confessingsins he d»d not desire to forsake, and" of pretendingto praise God for his mercies, when he did not endea¬vour to live to his service. A model of devotion, wheresuch sentiments made no part, Ids good sense could notdigest; and the use of such language before a heart¬searching God, merely as a hypocritical form, while the^sentiments of his soul were contrary to it, appearedto him such daring pfofaneness, that, irregular as thestate of kis mind was, the thought of it struck him withhorror. He therefore determined to make no more^at-tempts of this sort; and was perhaps one of the firsrmatdeliberately laid aside prayer, from some sense of God’somniscience, and some natural principle ofnonour atldconscience.These secret debates with himself, and ineffectual ef¬forts, would sometimes return; but they were overborne,again and again, by the force of temptation ; and it isno wonder, that in consequence of them his heart grewstill harder. Neither was it softened or awakened, bythe very memorable deliverances which at this time hereceived. Once he was in extreme danger from a fallof his horse. As he was ruling fast down a hill, thehorse threw him over his head, and pitched over him ;so that when .he rose,’ the beast lay beyond him, and al¬most dead. Yet, though he received not the least hann.riit made no serious impression on hjs mind. In'his re-•turn from England in the packet-boat, but a few weeks f.after the former accident, a violent storm, that drove :them up to Harwich, tossed them from thence for se-- veral hours, in a dark night, on .the .coast of Holland, [( 9 }and brought them into such extremity, thr.t the captaitiof the vessel urged him to go to prayers immediately,if he ever intended to do it vt aii'j for he concludedthey would in a few minutes be at the bottom of thesea. In these dramnstaOccs, 'he did pray., and thatvery fervently too •, and it was rcaiarlu'bie, that whilehe was crying to god for deliverance, the wind fell ardrjuicklv after, they anived at Calais. But the Majorwas so little affected with what had befallen him, thatwhen some of his gay friends, on hearing the story,rallied him upon the efficacy of hi; prayers he excusedHimself frmn the scandal of being thought muvh in ea r¬nest, by saying, “ it was at midnight, an hour when hisgood mother and aunt were asleep •, or else he shouldhave left that part of the business to them.”We now come to the account ef his conversion.This memorable event happened towards the middle ofJuly 1719, the Major had spent the evening (whichwas Sabbath,) in some gay company, and had an un¬happy assignation with a married lady, whom he was toattend exactly at twelve. The company brdke up a-bout eleven; and he went into his chamber to kill thetedious hour: It'happencd tint he took up a religiousbook, (which his good mother or aunt had, without hisknowledge,slipped into hi; portmanteau,) called, “ TheChristian Soidieror Heaven taken by storm writtenby Mr. Thomas Watson. Guessing by the title, thathe should find some phrases cf his own profession spi¬ritualized, in a manner which might afford him somediversion, he resolved to dip into it: bur took no seri¬ous notice of any thing he- read : and yet, while thisbook was in his hand, an impression was made uponhis mind, (perhaps God only knows how,) which drewafter it a train of the mo^t important and happy con¬sequences.Suddenly he thought he saw an unusual blaze oflight fall on the book while he was reading, which he atfirst imagined might have happened by some accident intire candle^ But iiffing up ms.-eJeS he apprehended, tohis extreme amazement, there was before him, as it weresuspended in the air, a -visible representation of the LordJesus Christ upon the cross, surrounded with a glory jand was impressed as if a voice, or something equiva-j]lent to a voice, had come to hint, and te this effect :i“ O sinner, did I suffer this for thee, and are these thereturns ?” But whether this were an audible voice, oronly a strong impression on his mind equally striking,he did not Seem confident, tho’ he judged it to be theformer: Struck with so amazing a phenomenon, thereremained hardly any life in him, so that he sunk downin his arm-chair in which he sat, and continued (he knewnot exactly how longi insensible, and, when he openedbus eyes, saw nothing more than usual.It may be easily supposed that he was in no conditionto make any observation upon the time in which he hadremained insensible : nor did he, throughout all the re-,mainder of the night, once recollect that criminal assig¬nation which had before engrossed all his thoughts,’He arose in a tumult of passions not to be conceived,aud waited to and fro in his chamber, till lie was readyto drop down, in unutterable astonishment and agonyef heart; appearing to himself the vilest of monsters inff.e creation of God, who had, all his life time, beencrucifying Christ afresh by his sins, and now saw, as heassuredly believed, by a miraculous vision, the horrorof what lie had done. With this was connected sucha view, both of the majesty and goodness of God, ascaused liipi to loathe and abhor himself, to “ repent” as ;‘‘ in dust and ashes.” He immediately gave judgmentagainst himself that he was worthy of eternal damnati-qn : was astonished, that he had no: been immediatelystruck dead in the midst of his wickedness ; and (which ideserves particular remark) tho’ he assuredly believedthat he should ere long, be in hell, and settled it as apoint with himself for some months, that the wisdom jand justice of God did most necessarily require thatsuch an enormous sinner should be made an example ofeverlasting vengeance, and a spectacle as such, both( 11 )to angels and men, so that he hardly durst presumeto prav for pardon ; yet what he then suffered, was notso much from the fear of hell, tho’ he concluded it mustsoon be his 'portion, as from a sense of the horrible in¬gratitude he had shewn to the God of his life, and tothat blessed Redeemer who had been in so affecting amanner set forth as crucified before him.In this view, it may naturally be inferred, that he pas-' sed the remainder of the nighc waking : and he couldget but little rest in several that followed. His mindwas continually taken up in reflecting on the divine pu¬rity and goodness; the grace which had been proposedto him in the gospel, and which he had rejected ; thesingular advantages .he had enjoyed and abused ; andthe many favours of Providence he had received, parti¬cularly in rescuing him from so many imminent dangersof death, which he now saw must Slave been attended'with such dreadful and hopeless destruction, The pri¬vileges of his education, which he had so much despised,lay with an almost unsupportable weight on his mind jand the folly of that career of sinful pleasure, which hehad so many years been running, with desperate eager¬ness, filled him with indignation against himself, andagainst the great deciever, by whom (to use his phrase)he had been “ so wretchedly and scandalously befool¬ed.”The mind of Major Gardiner continued from this re¬markable time, rather more than three months, (but es¬pecially the first of them,) in as extraordinary a situationas one can well imagine. He knew nothing of tile joysarising from a sense of pardon •, but, on the contrary, forthe greater part of that time, and with very short inter¬vals of hope, towards th« end of it, took it for grantedthat he must, in all probability, quickly perish. Never¬theless lie had such a sense of the evil of sin, of thegoodness of the Divine being, and of die admirable ten¬dency of the Christian revelation, that he resolved toSpend the remainder of his life, while God continued'him out of hell, in as rational and as useful a manner asC 12 )lie could ; and to continue casting himself at the feefcfDivine Mercy, every day, and often in a day, if perad-venture there might be hope of pardon, of which allthat he could say, was, that he did not absolutely despair,ade had, at that time, such a sense of the degeneracy ofhis own heart, that he hardly durst form any determin¬ate resolution against sin or pretence of God, but w scontinually crying to him, that he would deliver himfrom the bondage of corruption. He perceived inhimself a most surprising alteration, with regard tothe dispositions of his heart •, so that, tho’ he felt littleof the delights of religious duties, he extremely desiredopportunies of being engaged in them : and those licen¬tious pleasures which had been his heaven, were nowabsolutely his aversion, and he was grieved to see hu-Snall figure, even in those to whom he was a stranger,prostituted to such low and contemptible pursuits. Hetherefore exerted his natural courage in a new kind ofcombat, and became an open advocate for religion, inall its principles, so far as he was aquainted with them,and all its precepts, relating to sobriety, righteousnessand godliness Yet he was very desirous and cautiousthat he might not run into an extreme ; and made iteme of his first petitions to God, the very day afterthese amazing impressions had been wrought in hismind, that he might not be suffered to behave with suchan affected strictness and preciseness, as would lead o-thers about him into mistaken notions of religion, andexpose it to reproach or suspicion, as if it was an unlov-ly or uncomfortable thing. For this reason, he endea¬voured to appear as cheerful in conversation as he con¬scientiously could : tho’ in spite of all his precautions,some traces of that deep inward sense which he had ofhis guilt, and misery would'at times appear. He madeno secret of it, however, that his views were entirelychanged, tho* he concealed the particular circumstancesattending that change. He told his most intimate com¬panions freely, that he had reflected on the course of lifein which he had so long joined them, and found it to be'folly and rmilness, unvorhy a rational err a re : and! much more unworthy p Tsqtii calling them- oes Cbns-, tains, And he set up riis statuLrii, upon all occasions,i against infidelity and vice as deteirninately as everI he planted his colours in the field.' Fhete was at theI time at Paris a certain Inly who had imhib^d the prin-| cipfes of deism, and valued herself much upon being thei avowed advocate for them.| The Major, with his usual frankness, (though withj that politeness which was habitual to him,) answeredI like a man who perfectly saw through the fallacy ofher arguments, and was grieved to the heart for her; delusion. On this, she challenged him to debate thematter at large, and to fix upon a day f6r that purpose,when he should dine with her, attended with afay cler¬gyman he might choose. A sense of duty would sotallow him to decline his .challenge; and yet he hadno sooner accepted ir, that he was thrown into greatperplexity and distress, lest, being only a Christian ofsix weeks old, he should prejudice so good a cause, by'his unskilful manner of defending it. However, hesought his refuge in earnest and repeated prayers toGod, that he would graciously enable him, on this oc¬casion, to vindicate his truths in a manner which might. carry conviction along with it. He then endeavouredto marshal^ the arguments in his own mind, as well ashe could ; and apprehending that’he could not speakwith so much freedom before a number of persons, es¬pecially before * :ch whose province he might in thatcase seem to invade, he waited on the lady alone uponthe day appointed. -The Major opened the conference with a view ofsuch arguments of the Christian religion as he had di¬gested in his own mind, to prove that the Apostleswere not mistaken themselves, sad that they could notnave intended to impose upon-us in the accounts theygive to the grand facts they attest 5 with the truth ofwhich facts that of the Christian religion is most ap¬parently connected. Ami it was a great encouragementi.}i( n )to firui tlk.it, unaccustomed as lie was to discourses ofthis nature, he had an unusual command both of thoughtand expression; so that he recollected and uttered eve¬ry thing, as he could have wished. The lady heardwith attention, till he had finished bis design, and wait¬ed for her reply. She then produced some of her ob¬jections,'which he canvassed in such a manner, that, atlength, she burst out into tears, allowed the force of hisarguments and replies, and appeared, for some timj af¬ter, so deeply impressed with the conversation, that itwas observed by several of her friends : and there isreason to believe, that the impression continued, at leastso Far as to prevent her from ev^r appearing under thecharacter of an unbeliever, or a sceptic. This is on¬ly one among many of the battles he was almost dailycalled out to fight in the cause of religion and virtue.'Fire continual railleries with which he was received, inalmost all companies where he hul been most familiarbefore, did often distress him beyond measure ; so thathe declared, he would much radvjr have marched up toa battery of the enemy’s cannon, than have been obligedso continually as he was to face such artillery as this.But, like a brave soldier in the first action wherein heis engaged, he continued resolute, tho’ shuddering at theterror of the assault ; and quickly overcame those im¬pressions which it is not, perhaps, in nature wholly toavoid. In a word, he went on as every Christian, bydivine grace may do, till he turned ridicule and oppo¬sition into respect and veneration..Within allowt two months after his first memorablechange, he began to perceive some secret dawhings ofmore cheerful hope, that vile as he then saw himsell tobe , he might nevertheless obtain mercy thro’ a Redeem¬er ; and, at length, about the end of October, 1797, hefound nil tire burthen of Iris mind taken off at once, bythe powerful impression of that memorable scripture u-pon his mindt (Ro>\. Hi. 25, 2G.) <( Whom God hathset forth for a propitiation, thro’ faith in his blood, to■( 15 )declare his righteousness for the remission of sins—thathe might be j"-st, and the justilier of him that belierethin Jesus,” lie had used to imagine, that the justiceof Gud required the damnation of so enormous asinner, as he saw himself to be ! but now he wasmade sensible that the divine justice might be notonly vindicated, but glorified, irrtaving him by the bloodof Jesus, even that blood which cleanseth from all sin.He was led to see and feel the riches ef redeeming loveand grace, in such a manner, as not only engaged him,with the utmost pleasure and confidence, to venture hissoul upon them ; but even swallowed up (as it weve)his whole heart in the returns of love, which, from thatblessed time, became the genuine and delightful princi¬ple of obedience, and animated him with an enlargedheart to run the ways of God’s commandments. ThusGod was pleased, (as he himself used to speak,) in anhour, to turn his captivity. All the terrors ox Ids for¬mer state were turned into unutterable joy. And tho’the first extasi'.s of it afterwards subsided into a morecalm and composed delight; yet were the impressionsso deepand so permanent, that he declared, on the wordof a Christian and a friend, wonderful as it might seem,that for about seven years after this he enjoyed fiearlv aheaven upon earth. His soul was almost cominuaiiyfilled with a sense of the love of God in Christ: so thatfrom the time.of his waking in the morning, his heartwas rising to God, and triumphing in him and thesethoughts attended him through all die day, till he laydown on his bed again, and a short parenthesis of sleep(for it was but a very short one that he allowed him¬self) invigorated his animal powurs lor renewing thosethoughts with greater intenseness and sensibilit-y. ,A life, any thing like this, could not be entered upon,in the midst of such company, as he was obliged t6 keepwithout great opposition. He, however, sarly beganpractice, which, to the last day of Ids life he retained,el reproving vice and profaneness ; and was never‘afraid( 1C }.•o dei'ite rne matter with any, under the consciousnessor such Superiority in the goodness of his cause._A remarkable instance of this happened about themiddle of the year 1720, on his first return to make anyconsiderable abode in England after his remarkablechange. He had heard on the ofher side of the water,that it was currently reported among his companions athome that he was stark mad $ a report at which no'read¬er, wuo knows the wisdom of the world in these mat¬ters, will be much surprised. He hence concludedtnat He should have many battles to fight, and was will¬ing to dispatch the business as fast as he could. Andtherefore, being to spend a few days at the country-house of a person of distinguished rank, with whom hehad been very intimate he begged the favour of himthat he would contrive matters so, that, a day or twoalter he came down, several of their former gay compa¬nions at his Lordship’s table; that he might have an op¬portunity of making his apology to them, and acquain¬ted them with the nature and reasons of his change. Itwas accordingly agreed to; kind a pretty large companymet on the day appointed, with previous notice thatMajor Gardiner would be there. A good deal of rail¬lery passed at dinner, to which the Major made verylittle answer. But when the cloth was taken away, andthe servants had retired, he begged their patience for afew minutes, and then plainly and seri usly told themwhat notions he entertained of virtue and religion, andon what considerations he had absolutely de ermined,that by the grace of God, he would make them th; careand business of his life, whatever he might \. a by it,and whatever censure and contempt he might incur.He well knew how improper it was, in ,uch company,to relate, the extraordinary manner in which1 he was a-wakened ; which they would probably'have'intfctpreted1as a demonstration of luitacv •gainst el! the gravity andsolidity of his discourse: but hcodntcntcu himself withsuch a rational'defence bf a sober, righteous, and godlyhe knew none^ y !■» /with any shadow ef■feason contest. He then challenged them to proposeany thing they could urge, to prove .that a life of irreli-gion and debauchery was preferable to the fear, love andworship of the eternal God, and a conduct agreeable tothe precepts of his gospel. And he failed not to bearhis testimony, from his own experience, (to one part ofwhich many had been witnesses,) that after having runthe round of sensual pleasure, with all the advantagesthe best constitution and spirits could give him, he hadnever tasted any thing deserving to be called happinesstill he made religion his refuge and delight. He testified,calmly and boldly, the habitual serenity and peace thathe now felt within his own breast, and the composureand pleasure with which he looked forward to objectswhich the gayest sinner must acknowledge to be equallyunavoidable and dreadful.Upon this, the master of the tabl/’, a person of a veryfrank and candid disposition, cut short the debate by.saying-,tc Come, let us call another cause: we thoughtthis man mad> and he is in good earnest proving thatwe are so.” On the whek, this weil judged circumstan-cessaved him a stood deal of further trouble. When hisformer acquaintances observed that he was still conver¬sable and innocently cheerful, and that be was immove¬able in his resolution, they desisted from further im¬portunity. And he declared, that, instead of losing any¬one valuable friend by this change in his character,he found himself much more esteemed and regarded bymany who could not porsjiade themselves to itnirite^hisexample.Nothing remarkable occured in the Colonel's lifefrom this period till the year 17 1 ;i, when he marriedthe Lady Frances Ers .'ne, daughter to the £arl ofBuchan, by whom he had 13 children, five of whomsurvived their father.Before the.close of these short memoirs, it may notbe improper, or without its use, to give the reader asketch of the character of this excellent man, with re¬ference to his particular relative situations ■, in 8 nnc erri< 1* \other of whicii the reader may certainly find t modelworthy of his imitation.To view him first in the calmness of domestic life,'and at the head of his affectionate family—It will na¬turally be supposed, that, as soon as he had a house, heerected an altar in it; that the word of God was readthere, and*pntyers and praises constantly offered. Thesewere not to be omitted on account of any guest; for heesteemed it a part of due respect to those that remain¬ed under his. roof, to take it for granted, they wouldlook upon it as a very bad compliment, to imagine theywould have been obliged by his neglecting the dutiesof religion on their account. As his family increased,he had a minister statedly resident in this house, whodischarged the offices of tutor and chaplain, and was al¬ways treated with kindness and respect. He was con¬stant in his attendance on public worship, in which anexemplary care was taken that the children and servantsmight accompany the heads of the family.The necessity of being so many months together dis¬tant from home, hindered him from many of those con¬descending labours, in cuhivating the minds of hischildren in early life, v, Inch to a soul so benevolent, sowise, and so zealous, would undoubtedly have affordeda very exquisite pleasuye: hut when he was with them,tie failed! not to instruct and admonish them ; and theconstant deep sense with which he spoke of divinethings, and the real unaffected indifference which he al¬ways shewed for what tins rain world is most raidv toadmire, were daily lessons of wisdom and of piety.Ami it was easy to perceive that the opening of genius,in the young branches of his family, gave him great de¬light, and that he had a secret ambition to see them excelin what they undertook. Yet, he was very jealous o-'ver his heart, lest he should be too fondly attached tothem, and was an eminent proficient in the blessedscience.of resignation to the divine will.To consider his character in the domestic relation ofa master—It is proper to remark, that as his habitual'meekne&s, and command of his passions, prevented in¬decent sallies of ungovernable anger towards those in a.'state of subjection to him, so the natural greatness ofi his mind made him solicitous to render their inferiorl stations as easy as he could : and he had also such ai sense of the dignity and worth of an immortal soul, asengaged him to give his servants frequent religious ex¬hortations and instructions.To consider him in his military character—His bra¬very was as remarkable in the field of battle, as his mild¬er virtues in the domestic circle ; and he was particu¬larly careful to prevent the various duties of religion,and his profession, from interfering with one another,cither in himself, or in others. He therefore abhorredevery thing that should look like a contrivance to keepthe soldiers employed about their horses and their arms,at the season of public worship; far from that, he usedto have them drawn xtp just before 'it began, and fromthe parade they went oil to the house oi God, wherethey behaved with as much reverence, gravity and de¬corum, during the time of divine service, as any of theirfellow worshippers.That his remarkable care to maintain'good disciplineamong them might be the more effectual, he made him¬self, on all occasions, accessible to them, and expresseda great concern for their interest, temporal as well asspiritual'; yet he had all the firmness requisite to theinfliction of punishment, where he judged it necessary.We may notice one instance of his conduct, whichhappened at Leicester. While part of Ins regiment, was•encamped in that neighbourhood, the Colonel went in¬cognito to the camp, in the middle of the night ; for liesoiaetimes lodged at his quarters in the town. One oft-he centinels lead abandoned his post, and, on beingseized, broke out into some paths and profane execra¬tions against those that discovered him—a crime ofwinch the Colonel had the greatest abhorrence, and onwhich he never filled t« animadvert. The man after¬wards appeared ntuch'ashauacd, and concerned for whgt<lie had dorte. the Colonel ordered him to h«brought early the -next morning to his own quarterswhere he prepared a piquet, on which he appointed hirra private sort of petulance ; and while he was put uporit he discoursed with him seriously and tenderly uporthe evils and aggravations of Ids faults; admonishinghim of the divine displeasure which he had incurred ;and urged him to argue, • from the pda which he thenfelt, how infinitely mo:dreadful it must 'be to “ fallinto the hands of the living God,” and to meet the ter¬rors of that damnation which he hart been accustomedimpiously to call upon himself and "his companions.The result of this proceeding was, that the offenderaccepted his puni hment, not only with submission,but with thankfulness; and spoke of it some years af¬ter in such a manner, that there seemed reason to hopeit had been instrumental, in producing a change in hisheart, as well as in his. life.Indeed this excellent officer always expressed thegre atest reverence for the name of the blessed God ;and endeavoured to suppress, and if possible, to extir¬pate, that detestable sin of swearing and cutsing whichis every where so common, and especially among our.military men. He often declared hits sentiments withrespect to this enormity, at the herd of the regiment,and urged his captains, and their subalterns, to take thegreatest cars that they did not* give the sanction of theirexample to that, which by their ob.ce they were obli¬ged to punish in ethers. His r eal on .these occasionswrought in a very active, and sorpetimes in a remarka¬bly successful manner, among net only, his ctuals, buthis superiors too. /Nor was his chavtfv’ess conspicuous than his za\.The lively and tender feelings cf Ms heart engaged him•to dispense his bounties with a liberal hand : -ind aboveall, his sincere and ardent love to the Lord Jesus Christled him to feci, with a true sympathy, the concern? ofhis poor members. In consequence of this, he honour¬ed several of his friends with commissions for the re-( 21 )1 lief of the poor ; and esteemed it an honour which Pro*vidence conferred upon him, that he should be madethe Lord's almoner for the relief of such.That heroic contempt of death, which had often dis¬covered itself in the midst of former dangers, was mani¬fested now in his discourse with several of his most in¬timate friends. And as he had, in former years, oftenexpressed a desire, “ that, if it were the will of Cod,he might have some honourable call to sacrifice his lifein defence of religion and the liberties of his countryso, when it appeared to him most probable that liemight be called to it immediately, he met the summon#with the greatest readiness. This appears from a let¬ter which he wrote, only eight days before his death :“ lhe rebels,” says he, “ are advancing to cross theFrith; but I trust in the Almighty God, who doethwhatsoever he pleases in the armies of heaven, and a-mong the inhabitants of the earth.”These sentiments wrought in him, to the last, in themost effectual mauner. But he was ordered to man h,as fast as possible, to Dunbar; and that hasty retreat inconcurrence with the news which they soon after re¬ceived of the surrender of Edinburgh to the rebels,struck a visible panic into beth the regiments of Dra¬gons This aff eted the Colonel so much, that, onthe Thursday before the fatal action at Preston Pans, heintimated to an oftierr of considerable rapk, that he ex¬pected the event would be as in fact it proved, and to aperson who visited him, he said, “ I cannot influencethe conduct of others as I could wish, but I have onelife to sacrifice to my country’s safety, and l shall notspare it.”On Friday, Sept. 20, (the day before the battle whichtransmitted eim to his immortal crown,) when thewhole army was drawn up about noon, the Colonel rodethrough all the ranks of his own regiment, addressingthem at once in the most respectful and animating man¬ner, both as soldiers and as Christians, to engage them] Jte exert thar.selygs gytfr^pu?!’/country, and to neglect nothing that might have a ten-j dency to prepare them tor whatever event might happen.They seemed much affected with the address, and ex¬pressed a very ardent desire of attacking the enemy im-1 mediately ; a desire, in which he and asother gallantofficer of distinguished character would gladly havegratified them, if it had been in the power of either ;but they were over-ruled, and he spent the remainder ofthe day in making as good a disposition as circumstan-, ces would allow.He continued all night under arms, wrapped up jnhis cloak, and sheltered under a rick of barley whichhappened to be in. the field. About three in the morn¬ing, he called his domestic servants to him, of whomthere were four in waiting, tde dismissed three ofthem with the most affectionate Christian advice, andsuch solemn charges relative to the performance of theirduty, and care of their souls, as seemed plainly to inti* |mate that he apprehended he was, probably, taking hislast farewell of them. There is great reason to believethat he spent the little remainder of time, which couldnot be much above an hour, in those devout exercisesof soul which had so long been habitual to him.'1 he army was alarmed by bretik of day, by the noiseof the rebel’s approach, and the attack was made beforesun vise. As soon as the enemy came within gun-shotthey commenced a furious fire; and the dragoons,which constituted the left wing, immediately fled. TheColonel, at the beginning of the attack, which in thewhole lasted but a few minutes, received a bullet inhis left breast, which made him give a sudden springin his saddle ; upon which, his servant, who had led hishorse, would have persuaded him to retreat; but hesaid it was only a wound in the flesh : and fought on,tho’ he presently received a wound on the right thigh.The Colonel was, for a few moments supported by hisI men, and particularly about fifteen dragoons, who stoodby him to the last. But after a faint fire, the regimentin general was sd/ed with n nruc; and tho’ tin: Cefo-Jnel and some officers did/vliat they could to ra.lly them,once or twice, they at last took a precipitate flight- justin the moment when Colonel Gardiner seemeef to bemaking a pause, to deliberate what duty required him toI do in such circumstances, he saw a party of the footiwho were then bravely fighting near him, but had no of¬ficer to head them ; upon which lie rode up to themimmediately and cried out aloud, “ Fiie dn, my lads andfear nothing. But just as the words were out of hismouth, a Highlander advanced to him with a scythefastened to a long pole, with which he gave him suchla wound on his right arm, that his sword dropped outloi his hand ; and, at the same time, several others com-ing abput him while he was thus dreadfully entangledwith that cruel weapon, he was dragged of his horse.(The moment he fell, another Highlander gave him astroke, either with a broad-sword, or a Lochabcr-axe, onthe head, which was the mortal blow. All that hisfaithiul attendant saw further at this (ime was, that, as|his bat was falling off, he took it in his left hand, andwaved it as a signal for him to retreat, adding, (whichlwere the last •w ords he ever heard him speak,) “ Takecare of yourself;” upon which the servant immediatelyiled to a mill, at the distance of about two miles fromthe spot on which the Colonel fell ; where he changedhis dress, and disguised like a miller’s servant, returnedfwit-t a cart about two hours after the engagement.I J he hurt y of the action was then pretty well over, andpc found his much-honoured master not only plundered1 . |‘!s watch ;iml other things of value, but also stripped[ot his upper garments and boots, yet still breathing ; andadds, that tho’ he was not capable of speech, yet, on tn-uig him up, he opened his eyes, which makes it some¬thing questionable whether he were altogether inser.si-Ible. In this condition, and in this manner, he conveyedjhun to the church at Tranent, whence he immediately'was taken into the minister’s house, and laid in a bed,| where he continued breathing ;ill about eleven in theforenoon, wiu-.i !n- owl- Vc ujflC }row. His remaias were interred on the Tuesday follow¬ing, Sept 21, at the parish church of Tranent, (wherehe lud u'.ually attended cn divine service,) with greatsolemnity.FINIS.«