OFJAMES COVEY.Mr Pratt, in the second volume of his Gleanings, re¬lates an affecting anecdote of a sailor on board the Vener¬able, the ship in which Admiral Duncan commanded thefleet in the action against the Dutch, off Camperdown.He received the account from Dr Duncan, Lord Duncan’schaplain and relative, who, in the action, assisted the sur¬geon and his mate in binding up the wounds, and ampu¬tating the limbs, of the unfortunate sufferers. “ A mari¬ner,” says the doctor, “ of the name of Covey, was broughtdown to the surgery deprived of both his legs; and it wasnecessary, some hours after, to amputate still higher. ‘ Isuppose,’ said Covey, with an oath, ‘ those scissars willfinish the business of the ball, master mate ?’ ‘ Indeed,my brave fellow,’ cried the surgeon, ‘ there is some fearof it.’ ‘ Well, never mind,’ said Covey, ‘ I have lost mylegs, to be sure, and mayhap may lose my life; but,’ con¬tinued he, with a dreadful oath, ‘ we have beat the Dutch!—we have beat the Dutch!—so I’ll even have anothercheer for it: Huzza ! huzza !’”This anecdote is rendered more interesting still, by someprior and subsequent circumstances attending this poorsailor. Covey was a good seaman, and was noticed amonghis shipmates for his intrepidity, but he was pre-eminentin sin as well as in courageous actions. About a fortnightbefore the English fell in with the Dutch fleet, he dreamedthat they were in an engagement, in which both his legswere shot off, and that he was out of his mind. The dreammade this courageous seaman tremble, and sometimes at¬tempt to pray; but, not liking to retain God in his thoughts,2he endeavoured to blot out the impressions from his me¬mory, and the recollection of his sins from his conscience,by drinking and blasphemous intercourse with the ship’scompany. His efforts, however, were in vain. Thethoughts of his sins, of God, and of death, harassed hismind day and night, and filled him with gloomy forebod¬ings of what awaited him in this world and in the next,till the sight of the Dutch fleet, and their conversationwith each other concerning the heroic achievements theyshould perform, dispelled the gloomy subject from .hismind. As the two fleets were coming in action, the nobleAdmiral, to save the lives of his men, ordered them to lieflat on the deck, till, being nearer the enemy, their firingmight do the more execution. The Dutch ships at thistime were pouring their broadsides into the Venerable asshe passed down part of the Dutch fleet, in order to breaktheir line. The stout-hearted and wicked Covey, havinglost all the impressions of his former reflections, heaped,in rapid succession, the most dreadful imprecations on theeyes, and limbs, and souls of what he called his cowardlyshipmates, for lying down to avoid the balls of the Dutch.He refused to obey the order, till, fearing the authorityof an officer not far from him, he in part complied, byleaning over a cask which stood near, till the word ofcommand was given to fire. At the moment of rising, abar-shot carried away one of his legs and the greater partof the other; but, so instantaneous was the stroke, thoughhe was sensible of something like a jar in his limbs, heknew not that he had lost a leg till his stump came to thedeck, and he fell. When his legs were amputated higherup, and the noise of the battle had ceased, he thought ofhis dream ; and expected, that as one part of it was ful¬filled, the other would be so too. Indeed, considering thepain of amputating and dressing both legs, and the agita¬tion of his mind from fearing the full accomplishment ofhis dream, it appears next to a miracle that he retainedhis reason in the most perfect state: but this was to beexplained to him at a future period. Some time after, hecame out of Haslar Hospital, capable of walking by meansof two wooden legs and two crutches; but his spirits weresorely dejected, from fearing that as his sins had broughtupon him the judgment of God in the loss of his limbs,they would bring upon him the loss of his reason, and theloss of hif soul.3Having heard of Orange Street Chapel, Portsea, hecame on the first Sabbath evening after his leaving thehospital. The text that evening was Mark v. 15. “ Andthey come to Jesus, and see him that was possessed withthe devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, andin his right mind.” The minister represented this demo¬niac as a fit emblem of sinners in general; but especiallyof those who live without rule and order, drunkards,blasphemers, and injurious to themselves, and others; buthis sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his rightmind, as an engaging representation of the sinner con¬verted to God by the gospel, made sensible of the evil ofsin, the value of his soul, and the necessity of salvationthrough a crucified Redeemer ; enjoying peace of mind,having fellowship with Christ and his people, submit¬ting to the authority of the Scriptures, and receivinginstructions from Christ the Friend of sinners. Coveylistened with attention and surprise ; wondered how theminister should know him among so many hundred people,or who could have told him his character and state ofmind. His astonishment was still more increased, whenhe found him describe, as he thought, the whole of hislife, and even his secret sins. He could not account forit, why a minister should make a sermon all about him, apoor wooden-legged sailor. His sins, being brought afreshto his mind, filled him with horrors tenfold more gloomythan before. Despair, for some minutes, took a firm holdon his spirits; and he thought he was now going out ofhis mind, should die, and be lost; till the minister declaredJesus Christ was as willing to save the vilest of sinners,as he was to relieve this poor creature possessed of thedevil; and that a man was restored to his right mind whenhe believed in him. He now began to understand the trueinterpretation of his dream. He thought he had been outof his mind all his life, and that to love and serve JesusChrist would be a restoration to his right senses again.He was now almost overwhelmed with pleasure. Whilehearing of the astonishing love of Jesus Christ to sinners,hope took the place of despair, and joy of grief and hor¬ror ! Those eyes which had never shed a tear when helost his legs, nor when the shattered parts of his limbswere amputated, now wept in copious streams, flowingfrom strong sensations of mingled joy and sorrow !Some weeks after this, he called and related to me the4whole of his history and experience. He was surprised tofind that I had never received any information about himat the time the sermon was preached, which so exactlymet his case. Something more than twelve months afterthis time, he was received a member of our church, hav¬ing given satisfactory evidences of being a genuine andconsistent Christian. A few weeks since, hearing he wasill, I went to visit him. When I entered his room, hesaid, “ Come in, thou man of God ! I have been longingto see you, and to tell you the happy state of my mind.I believe I shall soon die : but death now has no terrorsin it. The sting of death is sin ; but, thanks be to God!he has given me the victory through Jesus Christ. I amgoing to heaven! O ! what has Jesus done for me, one ofthe vilest sinners of the human race !”—A little beforelie died, when he thought himself within a few hours ofdissolution, he said, “ I have often thought it was a hard jthing to die, but now I find it a very easy thing to die.The presence of Christ makes it easy. The joy I feelfrom a sense of the love of God to sinners, from thethought of being with the Saviour, of being free from asinful heart, and of enjoying the presence of God for ever,is more than I can express ! O how different my thoughtsof God, and of myself, and of another world, from whatthey were when I lost my precious limbs on board theVenerable ! It was a precious loss to me! If I had not lostmy legs, I should perhaps have lost my soul!”—With ele¬vated and clasped hands, and with eyes glistening withearnestness, through the tears which flowed down his face,he said, “ O, my dear minister, I pray you, when I am !dead, to preach a funeral sermon for a poor sailor; andtell others, especially sailors, who are as ignorant and aswicked as I was, that poor blaspheming Covey found mer¬cy with God, through faith in the blood of Christ! Tellthem, that since I have found mercy, none that seek itneed to despair. You know better than I do what to sayto them! But, oh ! be in earnest with them; and may theLord grant that my wicked neighbours and fellow-sailorsmay find mercy as well as Covey!”—He said much more;but the last words he uttered were “ Hallelujah! Halle¬lujah.” J. G.Printed for Wm. Whttk & Co. St Andrew’s-street, Edinburgh.Walker <$• Greig, Printers.