T H £ /S'MERRY L I F £,AND' ' . •MAD EXPLOITSO ¥Dapt.un JAMES IIYND,, T H EGreac Robber of England.WITHThe Clofe of all at WORCESTER, where he| was Drawn, Hanged and Qjartered, for HighTreafon agaiojj stuc Commoawealth, Sept. 247,1652.G L A S G O W,Printed by }. and m. robertso^-Saltwarket, i-6o6#1 - 'Capt. JAMES HYND.CHAP. 1.Contming Kind's Birth, ard hcnu he JirJl camebe a Highwayman.CAPTAIN JAMES HYND, the f'ubjea .our enfuiog difcourfe, was born at ChippingNortoun, in Oxford (hire; his father having rmore children but he, put him to ichooi, inten-ing to make him a fcholar, but he minding hwaggifh paftimes more than his b'ok, which hfather perceiving, bound him apprentice tobutcher: but he having a running pate, foon greweary of that alfo; and in conclufion run aw.from his mafter, Qames to London, there gro\acquainted with a company of roving debauch*blades, who by their evil examples made himbad as the-ufelves. To be fhort, as they feldoabound with money, fo they fcorned to be loiin want; when their ftock grew fhort’, they ro«a courfing for more. At laft the knot was difleved, the chief of them was hanged, and Hyronly efcaped with the lofs of his hone. And uohe fets up for himfelf.CHAeThe Life and Merry Exploiter life. 3CHAP. II.ythw Hynd rebbed a gentleman en foot, and furnip:,dhitnfef tvilb a herfe, mcney, and elstbu.0HYND having loft his horfe, when hehis efcapc, was relolved to get one, or fol¬low his trade on foot: his mailer’s misfortunegrieved him much, yet he quickly call it . out cfhis mind : and now to colour his knavery, he putsbimfelf in the* habit of a thepherd, wit't* a lee;;pike ftaff on his neck, and lb travels toward:,Banbury, where in his way he elp'ed a gentlemancoming down a hill, leading his horfe in his hand *Hynd, as if he took no notice of the .gentleman,went whiftling the tone of an ordinary pfaim.When the gentleman came to the foot of the hill,where Hynd flood whittling 'the pfalra, the gen¬tleman enquired of him the time of the day ? Heanfwercd him very civilly; but as the gentlemanwas getting on his horfe, Hynd hit him with hislong pole liich a ftroke between the head and theftiouldtrs, thar he made him Humble on the ground.Hynd prefently took his money, cloak, horle andfword, and left him his old coat and his Half tohit on the hoof, and gave him twenty fhillingsback to bear his-charges. But to this day the gen¬tleman loves not the tune of a pfaim.C H A ‘P. III.How H% nd was betrayed by two Whores, who fenitwo Highwaymen to take his money) and how herobbed them.4 The Life and 2{erry Exphitstowards night he rode to an inn which flood in - i.private road where it feems Come highwaymen di|Iufe to put up. After he had fecn his horle diflij.and fed, he came into the houis, where were twehandfome ladies by the fire; he bcfpoV' a good,fupper, and invited them unto it. \\ hen fuppe:was' ready he called for wine, and made thetrmerry. They teemed very coy to him, bnt ht;knowing of theij humours, he pulled out of hitpocket a handful of gold, faying, “ Maids^ whereare your hearts, look you what is here. Anpafter much mirth, to bed be,went, and preftntlyafter came in two men, which kept thole twpwhores, to whom they related all the coimefy o<Hynd, and that he had abundance of gold aboutthim- They refulved to watch his going, and tcfollow him on the morn; But Hynd being wake-ful was up and mounted before the two ladietwere ftirring : when t.hey heard his horie prance,they looked out of the window, and feeing htrode a good fcotfe, were ready to fad o..t »hrfoould have bin: l will have ihc hor.e, laid th<one, and you tliall liave his money Nay, 111 narthis horfc, fays the other. In confufion they qmckiv made themftlves ready, and rode a.ter Hyr.dwhen they had overtaken him; they afked hmwhich way he rode ? he anfwers them towardCambridge. They told him, they would i>e gla-of bis company. Now riding in a place where r-people were nigh, one of the thieve, f.ngs, “ Maid.I. where are your hearts, look you what here is.Hv,J feeing their intent, and knowing he wabetrayed, anfwered them at the fame time, Novyou rogues, von are both undone look you wh?here £' and drawing forth ms piftol, and .firmat one of them, by chance {hot his horfe >n thhead, who prtfently fell dowp with hi§ maftercf Captain J.ime! HytJ. ?leg under him: the other feeing this, took himlelfto fligh' \ but Hynd qnicklj' overtook him, andmade him deliver what money he had, tnttinghis girds and his bridle, made him work enoughto catch bis horfe again. Hynd rides now to theother thief, who lay bin in little eaie •, he alights,and pulls the horfe from his leg, and then helpsShim up, and takes away his money alfo, laying,Is thete but one nuffer thief in England, andwould you.venture to rob him? Verily, were younot one of my own pwfeffion, neither or you,fhould have lived; but feeing you have vchtureShard for it, certainly thou dderveth fd’ttiething \lb Hynd gave him his money back again, to buyhim "another horfe, faying to him, dilgrace notyourfelvts with finalf turns, but aim high, andjfor great ones, for the lealt wiH bring you to theSallows. 3o Hycd (haking the poor thief by thehand, left him to his partner to catch the horie,and bid him farewel.CHAP. IV.Hon) Hynd was enchanted hy an old Hogg for the{pace of three years.' FTER Hind had robbed the two thieves oftheir money, it was his chance to ride toHartfield^ where lying at the George-Inn, being“hen the port houfe, he very merrily fpent theIsvening with fome gentlemen that was there. Injhe morning early, Hynd calls for his horie to begone, takes leave of thefe gentlemen, that wereftirring: and as he rode along Hartfield, an oldill-favoured woman alked alms of him; his horfeprelently flayed, and would go no further. Sir,laidif .The Life and 7, ferry Exphiij^kitl sthc old woman, I have lomething to fiiy tcyou, arid then you may be gone. Hynd not liking£.'.t countenance, pulled out five fhiiliings and g.^veher, thinking, (he would but like a gypfie tell hisfortune faying, good woman ! am in hafte: Sir,faid (lie, I have ilayed all this morning to fpeakwith you, and would you have me to lofe my la¬bour ? neak your mind, faid Hynd: whereuponthe old woman began thus, Captain Hynd, as youride and go through many dangers, by my poo*flail, I have thought on a way to pr.eferve you forthe fpacs of three years, but that time being paftjyou are no more than an ordinary man; andmilchance may fall on you as well as another;but if you be in England, come to me, and f willrenew the virtue of this charm again lo layingtbefe words, (lie pulled out of her pocket a littbbox, aluioft like a fun-dial, and gave it to CaptainHynd, and faid unto him, when you are in anydiftrefs, open this, and that way you fee the flarturn, ride or go that way, you (hall efcape alldangers. So fhe fwitched him with a white rotjthat was in her hand, and ftruck the horfe on thebuttock, and bad him farewel; the horfe pre-fently leapt forward with fuch courage, that Hyndcould not turn him to give her thanks; but guef-fing that it was her will it fhould be fo, rode oahis way.CHAP. V.How Ilyttd robbed a Gentleman in Yorlfiire, and'afterwards came into the Inn where he layx to fupwith hint.A Gentleman coming from York, intendingfor London, by accident met Hynd, whofoonsf Captain James Hynd. 'jloon made him deliver what he had: Hynd giveskin back 20 (hillings (or to bear his charges, tillihat his own credit better furnilhtd him. bo the|»entleman rode on his journey to the next town,Ivhere he was well known by the inn-keeper there;.being alighted from his horie, he di fires the holtIto get fbmewhat ready for his (upper, lo the gtn-i:leman went to his chamber. In the meantime inicomes Hynd, and alks if there were any gentiemenohat went for London ? The hoft antwered thatpere was one gentleman alone, and he would, heIglad of any good company : fo Hynd went oji t<*(the gentleman’s chamber, and laluted him; the(gentleman laid, Sir fit down, and 1 will tell youhow I was robbed to-day. I durft have Iworn that•you was the man, but that 1 fee that your hair isifhort, and his was long: Sir, faid Hynd, wouldyon know the horfe ? yes, very well, faid the gen-(tleman: to fatisfy you, fays Hynd, you fhaii leeinline. So Hynd went down, and fetched hi*ihorie out of the liable, and *(ked the gentleman,I if that was the harle ? he aniwered, I, i, pat isithe horfe. Then faid Hynd, I cannot fup with| you this night, if you know my berfe better thanimyfelf:—fo bids him good night.CHAP. VI.1 Hew Hynd robbed two Gentlemen's fervants, andcaufed a Parfon to be taken for a highwayman inhis Jlead.' TjrYND being informed of a purchafe, as he. rl rode, efpied fome gentlemen drinking at an1 aie-houfe on horfeback, having fent their (ervantsj before: Hynd paffed by them; but riding at agood18 ^re Lije and Merry Exploitsr.xid rate, be quickiy overtook the gentle me*.ertants, who rocie but eafily. Hynd, by th«r-r.rtmanteaus, f»w there was money in them, ba*ch-hvee their money, or he fhould be their deattt! hey^ trot being ufed to hght, yielded unto bin*n teeing their-delays would breed danger, •bbis dagger knife he cut open their portmanteauand took their money; and tying the bags tog.tner, laid them before him and rode fpeedily awa’One of the fervants rode to acquaint hi.s maftewho prefently purfued Hynd. Hynd met a paribiand laid to him, fir I am like to be robbed, yomufl ihod to it no# for your own life as well amine., they would have this money from me whicvna fee ; come fir, be of good chear, one honean-'in v.'iil fear ten thieves, you (hall have one cr>v ouiols. So he gave the parfon the piftocready cock'd and charg’d, and bade him fire it athem that came firlf, while 1, fays he, ride dowito the next village, and raife the country pebpl-to be our help. The parlbn having taken a ciijtoo much at a wedding, was pot-valiant, and rod*up boldly to the gentlemen and fired his piftol athem : but being too far off did no execution. Htrode nearer, and flung his piflol at one of themthat he had like to have knocked him off hithorfe. The gentleman feiztd on him, and toolhim prifooer. The parfon cries out, fpare mylife, and you fhall have all my money: no, firra.faid the gentleman, we will have you bang’dwhat, a parfon, and rob on.the highway! theyprefently hale him to the next juffice of peacewhich was near; when he came before the jufiice,they told him that they were robbed of two hundredpounds, and that this parfon was one of the thieves.The juflice marvelled that fuch apparent teftimonyfhould come againA the parfon of the parifh.Thetf Ccpiaitf jatt-M Ky'ct. 'g> vj^The p&rfco by this time coats to hlbafelf^ad dcfirtd the juft ice to give him leave to ipsajLor himielf. Being allowed to fpeak, he r3id to.he juftice. Sir, you have known me ihefe twentyfears, and no tnan can lay 1 have wronged fcist>f a penny, much lets this which is Bid to mycharge: Sir, I (hall tell you fo much as I know ofhe bufinefs. As I was riding on my way home,i met a tnan who had. two bags of money beforekim, who told me that thieves pnrfued hisn, andjr.e ^efired my help, faying that I need not fear,for one honeft man would beat ten thieves : fo hegave me a piftol charged, cocked and primed, andhade me fire at the firft that came on, while heiraifed the countrymen to alTilt us: fo when thefejgentlemen came down the hill, 1 rode up to them,land fired the piftol at one of them : when I hadifo done, 1 flung it at this gentleman’s head, think-;ing they had been all thieves. Sir, this is all thatI know of the matter. The juftice laught to feethe parlbn of his parilh apprehended for a high¬wayman ; but he paft his word ,for appearance atthe next afiize; who when he was brought beforethe bench, he was cleared: but he made a vowjnever to fire a piftol again.C H A P. VII.I How H'jnd robbed a Gentleman sf thirty pounds, whowould give twenty pounds to fee kirn.HYND overtook a gentleman as he rode onthe road, and they fell in' difeourfe; fo the| gentleman was faying, he - would give twenty| pounds to fee Hynd. But as they were riding,I the gentleman fancied Hyad’s borfe. Sir, laidthe* . .• ' -ijjso T&- Life fed Mirt“} Exploitsthe gentleman, what money (hall I give yo»!, £4exchange horfes with me ? Forty pounds, fir, faiaHynd: I will give you thirty pounds in gold, laictt.the gentleman. Hyad faid, fir, ride him: fo th«gentleman gave him thirty pounds in gold, andhis horfe; but as he rode along, there was a ditchfir, faid Hynd, leap over this ditch: T cannotfaid the gentleman. Hynd defired the gentlemanto alight. So he got on his-own horfe, and leaptover the ditch; and when he was on the othe*fide, he faid, Sir you would give twenty pounds tctee Hynd, and now you have feen him *, the othettea pounds was for ridding my horfe, and fo I thinhyou have feen enough of him, and fo farewel.CHAP. vm.How Hynd robbed a Parfon of forty pounds.A Parfon riding from Coventry to London,x'V was robbed of his filver by thieves, but hav¬ing forty pounds of gold about him, refolved totgo on his journey: And as he rode, Hynd over¬took him, and afked the parfon which way he tra¬velled ? The parfon told him that he intended forLondon : but fays he, I was almofl: prevented, forto-day I was robbed of five pounds of filver, andthe knaves left me but five (hillings in all to bearmy charges. Sir, faid Hynd, I was robbed of alittle (ilver to-day; a man has as good let themhave it quickly, as endangeroufiy to refill; but Iwas cunning enough to hide my gold in my boots lbefore-hand. Nay, I believe, faid the parfon, |mine is as fave, for I have quilted it in the collar rof my doublet. Hynd was not a little glad whenhe did hear where his gold lay, but being near j1. their,|nj Captain Jama TTynd. f inn, they fupt together, and v/ect to bed<In the morning the parfon called tor Hynd up,land told he would be glad of his company Aftertbreakfaft they rode together: Hynd alked the par-fon, if he could guefs what trade he was of ? No,faid the parfon. Then faid Hynd, I am a cutter;for I muft cut the collar of your doublet off, beforeI fhall come at your money ? Having fo done heleft the parfon forty pounds lighter than he found| him. .\'   CHAP. IX.How Hyndferved t wo Bailiffst and an Ufurer.HYND riding through a little town in War-wickfiiire, faw a tumult on the Greets, fohe rode up to know the occafion: one told himthat an honeft inn-keeper was arrefte’d tor twentypounds, and the man was undone, if he had notrelief fpeedily. Hynd goes to the man, and atkedhim, it he would give him any lecurhy, he wouldj pay the money for him 1 the poor man being muchI overjoyed at this unlooked for news, told him thathe would make over, all that he had ferhis fecurity.So Hynd had the old Ufurer and the cuo .Bailiffsinto the houfe, defired the bond, and paid theUfurer all he demanded, giving the Bailiffs theirfees, and cancelled the bond. Hynd tent for oneto make over the inn-keeper’s goods to himfelf,which being done, they parted. Hynd being notunmindful to enquire which way the Ufurer wasto go, went after him, and overtook him in a con¬venient place: Friend faid he, I lent you twentypounds a little ago, but 1 mutt needs s ave it again.The Uliirer faid, you paid me to much on a bondSir,■11 The Life and Merry Exploit?Sir, fali Hynd, it is not time to difpute it ijtf w |So Hynd took from the old Ufurer the twenty |pounds, and twenty more that he had got by ufuty, iand rode back to the inn, and gave the hoft bis jwriting again, and five pound of the money, tel- |ling him, that he had good luck by lending to Lhoneft men. The Ufurer came after to the inn¬keeper, thinking to get fome money off him, butthe inn-keeper did beat him almofl to death, fay¬ing you rogue, I am engaged in all that I have forthe payment of the money, and if you be robbed,mull I pay again!1 I will, I wifi, I wiil: fo thatwas all the poor Usurer could get.CHAP. X.How Hynd robbed a Gentlmean on Chalkhill.AFTEP^ a day or two, Hynd rode into Buck¬ingham (hire, where he was acquainted withmany gentlemen; and paffiog away his time, tillhis opportunity ferv’d, it was his chance to gonear Chalkhill; Hynd efpied, a little before him,a gentleman and his lervant, who were lighted towalk down the hill. The captain gave his b°5|ito his man, and bid him ftay at the ftyle till necame down. The captain having an occafion tountrufs a point, fat under a little hedge: Hyndwatching his opportunity, rode foftly till he camenear the captain, and feeing him in good clothes,he rode haftily up to him and bid him deliver.The captain was amazed at this bidden occafionof Hynd, who all the while held a piflol to hisbreaft, and bids him difpatch, for it is not tftycuftom, faid he, to ftand maudiing, but I demand,,and look*you make nd longer ftny. The captaindefiredof Ciptain yames Tfytul. 15iSefired hitli to forbear rill he was truITed «p: Hyndgiving him fo much leave, faid, your money fir.The captain feeing it could not be helped by de¬lays, delivers him thirty pieces of gold: Hynd laid,fir, I take this in part, I (hall not be too merce¬nary upon yon at this time, and fo he rode downthe hill, where the captain’s man flayed with hismailer’s horfe. Hynd faid, firrah, is that yourim.Iter on the hill? He anfwered him, yes, fir:Then, faid Hvnd, I feldom take any thing fromthe mailer, but I give the fervant fomething: fogiving him ten {hillings, here is fomethiug forthee, faid he, to drink my health, and tell thy1 mailer my name is Hyad*CHAP. XI.How Hynd robbed a Mem of 150 /.*HYND travelling up and down the country,met with a lully young fellow whom he hadi formerly known, alking him fbme qneflions, a.; lEong the reft he faid, Jack, if thou wilt live withme, thou Ihalt have money at command, or any’ thing thou wanteft. Jack .knowing partly histrade, gave confent. Hyndf prefently bought a( ^ood horfe for his man, and furnilhed him withclothes, fword and a fmall piftol. Being well fit¬ted, away they travelled towards Nottingham, andas they rode they chanced to come to an inn, wherea gentleman and his fervant were newly come be¬fore them. Hynd rode to the liable-door, where' the hoftlcr was taking off the other gentleman’sport-mantle, the hoftler faid, it is but a little poit-mantle, but it is very heavy. Hynd well efpiedit, and faid to his man Jack, enquire cunninglywhichY4 ~ Vtfe and Merry Exploitswhich way this gentleimr- travels to-morrow; f»Hynd went m, and ''hen upper was re^dy, theywrent to (upper together. After the gentlemanlud tupped, the fervants fell to, and Hynd's mangives the other gentleman’s fervant a pint of fack,and after fupper, Jack gives him fome Spanifh to¬bacco : and now they begun to be great acquain¬tance, 16 they go together into the liable, to fee (their horfes, drelt. Jaclj alked the gentleman’sfervant, which way they rode in the morning ? hetold him, towards London: my mailer, (ays Jack,rides that way too, I think. Now Jack having asmuch as he defired, went to fee what his mailerwanted. Hynd bid his man get his dippers read}’,and pulled off his boots: which being done, hetakes leave of the gentleman, and goes to bed.■When he came into the chamber, he afked hisman, which way he went; Jack tells him towardsLondon. Hynd rode firft, the gentleman Hayedbehmd to eat breakfall; after he had done, herode on his journey, and riding by a wood whereHynd and his man lay in'amhulh for him. Hyndrode out to the gentleman, and with his cane dapshim o’er the pate; faying, have I nothing to dobut to wait upon you fir i Jack takes olF the port-mantle, faying, ’tis heavy mailer: fir, laid Hyndto the gentleman, yoti are ill-beloved in the coun¬try, you cannot get gold for your filver. jackrode back to the gentleman’s fervant, and flrikeshim over the pate; faying, you rogue, mull I fpoilmy horfe to carry your port-mantle, mud I, mullI, you rogue you. So Hynd and his man rodeaway (and leaving the gentleman and his fervantlooking one upon another, almoft amazed at thisfudden accident) fparing no fort of horfe fiefh tillthey were far enough from the gentleman: forthey rode all the back-ways, that it might be hardforof Captain James Hynd.i&y to follow them; and being at a place wherethey knew themfelves £ife, they looked into theport-mantle, where they found one hundred andfifty pounds; this they put up as a good mom-,iogs work.fjow Hynd ferv'd n Committee Man, lobo difguifedhhnfelf for fear of robbing.Committee man having ceeafion to traveltowards London, for to buy many commo¬dities, hearing that there was robbing in that road,fitting himfelf with an old gray coat out at theelbows, and an old mare, with boors inftead offtirrups, hung at the faddle, that were not worththree-pence, and a bridle of the fame price. Nowrides he merrily, thinking no highwayman, wouldlet on him. But money ill got, will belli fpent:for he chanced to meet with Hynd, who afkedhim what he was ? He anfwered, that he was aaI old man going to get relief amongft his friends.1 So Hynd gives him a piece of gold, and bade himdrink his health, and be merry at his inn. The! old mifer thinking to pleafe Hynd, coined (^ut twouiuuis. wiui drinking his health Hynd partedi from him, and the old man went to his inn, and! fet up his mare, and called for a pint of lack •, andI after the firft glafs, he began to tell, that he efl! caped the greateft danger that ever he was in •, for,! faid he, I met with Hynd, and infteid of robbingme, gave me a piece of gold, and bid me drink1 his health* but I will fee him bang’d e’er. I fpendone penny for; his fake i hang him rogue, he robsCHAP. xn.prefently, and faid, he would beall* € The Life and Merry Exploitsall honed men, only cavaliers he lets them £0» Iwill put his gold among mine own: I would havegiven ten pounds to have been rid of him, whenfirft I met with hitp. So after fupper, going tobed, Rynd came to the inn, ufing to lye lurkingfhere unknown, and the hoft told him in whatfear an old committee man w^as to-day j laying,*he had met with Hynd, who gave him money todrink his health, but he faid, he would lee himhanged firft, and called him a rogue a thoulandtimes. Hynd went to bed, and let the old mantravel firft in the morning; and about an hour af¬ter, Hynd rode after him: when he had overtakenhim, he aficed fbe old man if he drank his health ?yes, laid he, I was never fo drunk all my life, asI was laft night, for I drank the king’s health, thequeen’s health, the prince’s, and your health tentimes over. Hynd faid to him, friend I havefound you out in many lies, and now I will makeyou call me rogue for fomerhing. Hynd madehim untie his greefy napfack, where he foundfifty pieces cf gold, and his own piece bdides.Now the committee man, to chrar up himfelf,resolves to borrow fo much off the State, beforehe went another journey, Hynd f id, the fooqeryou get it, the better for me, if I meet you.CHAP. XIII.Hou Hynd robbed a Gentleman in Hide-Park.HYND being well horfed, went one eveninginto Hide-Park to fee feme fport; and rid¬ing up ind down the Park by coaches, efpy’d abag of money by a gentleman, with whom Hyud©fed feme dilcourfe about the race that was to. berua;tf Captain James Hynd. 17run: but the race beginning, the gentleman' cauf-ed his coach to liand hi’i, that he roi^ht judgewhat horfe ran bexl. Hynd’s head not being idle,rode to the coachjook the hag in his hand, androde away. The gentleman prekntly milling hiemoney, cries oot, btay him, Itay hii.*, 1 am rob¬bed. Many rode after biro, tl’pcciaily the Cap¬tain, whom he robbed at Chalk-hill,' vho purlbedhard. Hynd riding by St. Jatreh’s, laid to thfcloldiers, 1 have won the wager. But holding hisbag fall, his cloak fell oft which he left for themthat came next, he riding the bye-ways, fo he leftthem: but when he came to his companions, hefaid he never earned a 100 1. lb dear in his life.   -   C H A F. XIV.4 How Hynd put a trkh upon a Dutch Mountebank.HIcND having commlted m nv robberies, wasconflrained to leave England, and go torHolland. Now being in a. Brange country, andnot having that command to rcb on the highway,»s he had in England, fell into want of money.So hearing of a rich Mountebank that went aboutquacking of,it, who nevc-r went without Bore ofmbney ; his name wss Henry V^n Velds, he was- fomewhat fortunate in cures, wherefore by everyone defired. This Mountebank coming to vifithis Tick patients in divefs parts of the city, havingreceived firms of money for particular cures, Hyndwatching him, and as he paB through a byc-Brfethe runs to him in haft r, and falutes him in a kindlymanner, thus, Sir, I heard much of your renownin cures of dangerous confequences, £rt>d feeing itis my happiuefs to meet with you, I live not fa?fromIS The Life and Merry Exphilsfrom rhis place, if you pleale to go along with meto nr/ honfe, I have a wife much troubled with 'the flux in her belly thefe fourteen days; and youby your experience may do her much good, if youjfleafe to give hqr a vifit, I humbly tequeft you togo along w?!h me, and what cement you defire,1 (hall willingly iattsfy you: this bell founding wellis his ears, he goesjadth Hynd to his lodging, andby the way gives Hynd a comfortable aniwer, lay¬ing, God forbid that i fhould negleft the littlefkiil I have to do your wife any good.Upon thefe compliments Hynd leads him frometie ffrett to another, till at l;.fl he got within hislodging, which was io contrived, it was fome difl-ance frum any other houfe. Having-locked thedoor upon him, he ukes in the one hand a piftcl,and in the other a great empty purle, and furi-oully looking upon the Mountebank, he laid Sir,here is my wife, meaning his empty purle, ll>chath been a long time troubled with a flux in herbelly, and you nre the only man erm remedy it,and tind out a. mean ro cure this difeafe : or elfeI myielf, by the help of this piflol, am refolved 1to remedy it. The Mountebank leeing himfelfthus cunningly and luddenly furprized, began tocry out, but was prefcntly Irlenced by the fight ofthe piftol, and was fain (for fear,) to let go hispurle to cure iiynd’s, whkh had the flux. Butaccording to his wonted charity, feeing the manin this trembling cemdition, reftored him lome ofthe money again, promifing him to convoy him,home to his lodging, and rode with his piftol cock¬ed for fear of any out-cry, and in the mid-way lefthim to had out his chamber himielf.CHAP.-if Captain James Hyr.fk. 19CHAP. XV.Ht%o Hynd ’went into Scotland, to the King in Stir-ling, and hciv he ivas apprehended at Condon.HYND being very weary of itaying long in aplace, (hipped himlelf for bcotland : whenhe was landed, and predated his tervice to theXing at Stirling : the King being intormed whohe was, had iome dilcoune with him, and com¬mended him to the Duke of Buckingham, thenpreferred him to ride in his troop, becaul’e !»'*life-guard was full. He came into iingland with,the fame troop, was in the engagement at War¬rington, came to Worceiier figot, and- flayed tillthe King was fled. Hynd being in the city, lawthe gates full of flying perlons, lept o\er tne wallon foot, hy himfetf only travelled the country, andlay three days under bufhes and hedges, becaufeof the folditry; and afterwards he came to SirJohn Pakinton’s woods, where he lay five days,and from thence he came on foot to London, andlodged five weeks very lecurely: but on November9th, 1651. A difeovery was made of CaptainHyncPs frequenting one Deny’s, a barber, overngainft St. Dunftan’s church in Fleet-ftreet, whowent by the name of Brown. This informationwas communicated to certain gentlemen, belong¬ing to the right honourable Mr. Speaker, who with'great care fb ordered the bufinefs, that there wasno fufpicion at all: to his chamber door they went,forced it open, snd immedfately, with their pif-tols cofcked, ieized upon his perfon; carried himto Mr. Speaker’s houfe in Char.cery-hne, and ft>fecured him for that night. 1 he next day beingMonday, by order from thp Right HonourableCoandl of State, the faid Captain Hynd, wasbrought2© Life and Alerry Exflcitsbrought to Whitehall, was examined before zcommittee, and divers qusltions put to him cort-rceiaing hts late engageoicnt with Charles Ftewart]]and whether he accompanied the, Scdttifh Ki^Hffor the furtherance cf his eicape, to which he an'|[f’wered, that he never faw the King fince the firh«Jat Wcrcdter, neither knew he of his getting cfaTthe field ; but was "glad he had made lb happy a£«Jefcape: after examnjation, he was ordered to be !' lent priioner to the Gate-houle till the next day.So the next dajrhe was brought from thence in ac*.ch with iron bolts on his legs. Captain Camp-ton, and two other m- fiengers beiongmg to theftiTfe, guarding hun; and zibout two o’clock in theafternoon, he was put into Newgate, where helay till next lolhons.ii »MraaasgjjgQwaBr* n » .CHAP. XVI. .Containing the Ccnclufton of the Story, arid CaptainHynd's tajl far civ el tp W'refer.ON Friday the 12th cf December, 1651, Cap¬tain Hynd was brought to the Scffion-houfein Old Bailie, where divers queitions was pro¬faned to him, concerning his life and cobverla-tion: He anfwered, what, he confe/Ted before theCouncil of State, the life he acknowledged to thathonourable court, protefling his innocency in anymatter of faft or crime fince the year 1649, with-ip any of the parliaments dominions: lb he wasdifmift from that place, and on Monday the firlbof March 1651, he was carried in a coach fromNewgate to Reading, whereupon the Wednefdayfollowing, he was arraigned before the right hon¬ourable judge Wetherton, for killing one Poolhisnf Captain 'James HyrJ. 21bis companion at Know!, a little village in thatptmtry. After evidences given agaihft him, hejtvas found guilty of man.(laughter, and ccadem-Joed.to die: But, the next morning the Aft of(Oblivion being lent, acquitted all former offenders,•only the indiifinent for high trcafoa againll the«State, and for that fa£t he was canted to Wor-icefter, and therefore drawn, hanged and quartered,Jen Friday, September 18, 1652.?"£////ate the great Derider did deride,Hrho liv'd-by Robbery, yt for Tt-ea/on dyd.By his Friendy upon Honejly.I Am in hafte, good, friends, yet cannot chufeBut flay one moment juft to tell you news.Dame Honefty to-day, but wond’rous poor,Wrapp’d in rags, came mumping to my door."What tatter’d manikin have we here, laid I;Poor Hdnefty, faid (he, both cold and dry.Then Honefty, faid I, pray go your ways,I ne’er got three-pence by thee in my days* .I might have ftarv’d, Tong fmce, for thee.Now thou wanteft, thou mny’ft ftarve for me.The fqueamilh gtpfy prefently took fnuff,And turn’d her back upon me in a huff;Whether Ihe rambled heaven knows for me.She’s not among you there, as I can fee ?If in the audience (he has ftole a place,And durft in play-houfe (hew her honeft face,Amongft the ladies hire (he muft appear,But faith and troth I cannot fee her there:a s A P O E M, &c.Yet though (he’s hard to find, I dare engage,That you'll fee her by and by upon the ftage;But cloth’d in woolen rags, no linen under,A begging too, but that will be no wonder, . *For in this iron age we daily lee,That knavery gets the ft.m of Honefly.And like our wifer leaders, 1 proteft,i always fide with them that thrive the bed.If I could (lay, I would provoke your laughter, ‘And tell you of what you’ll find hereafter.But my time is come, and I mud go hence.To fill my bag with the commanding pence:For he that in our Chriltian city thrives,Muft run when int’refl, that dear devil, drives.A P O E M,By his FATHER.POOR Honefty (lie’s fled, I’ve feen her lad,HeV cares are ended, and her forrows pad.Many I hear at her fad exit griev’d,Who never could abide her, while (he liv’d.For rogues, like (beers, their edge is keen,They cut thetnfelves, as has been often (een,For lack of honedy to go between,For now (he’s down, we have caule to fear,All men will be us arrant knaves as we are.And then drong jars and druggies mud arifejAbout which rogues tr uft be the prize.Like privateers they care not to oppofeEach other, becaule nothings got but blows.Shark hates to fnap at Shark. The Wolf, we findCares not, tho’ famidi’d, to fly from her kind.But now’ good Honedy is (cat^h’d away,*Tis well if men are not worie than they,Th\The Maid's Lamentation.nThe MAID'S LAMENTATION,For CAPTAIN HTND.I AM a poor maiden forfaken,Yet I bear a contenfed mind;1 am a poor maiden forfaken,Yet I’ll find another more kind:For although I be forfaken,Yet this I would have you to know,I ne’er was lo ill provided,But I’d two’r three firings to my bow.1 own that once ! lov’d him,But his fcorn l could never endure;Nor yet to that height of perfection,For his flights to love him the more.I own he was very engaging,Yet this I would have you to know,I never was fo ill provided,But I’d 14b'x three firings to my bow.Ye maidens who hear of my ditty,And are unto loving inclin’d,Men’s minds they are fubjeCt to changing.And wavering like the wind:Each objeCt creates a new fancy;Then this I would have you to do,Be eafy and free, take pattern by me,And keep two’r three firings to your bow.24 Anecdote of a noted Highwayman*the means of the late duke of Montague, who be--|ing allured by Mr. Chovet, an anatomift of that Itime, that opening the windpipe would preventthe fatal confequences of the halter, obtained apardon for Gordon, on condition he weald trythe experimWt noon himfelf. Dr. B—vis andChovet attended him feveral times in his cell, batit was with difficulty he was prevailed upon to cuthis own throat. At length he made a flight iaci-fion, which Chovet opened; tHb efFe£t of whichWas, that w^.en Gordon i opt his mouth, nolhiisand ears for fome time, air enough came throughthe cavity to continue life. But when he cameto be fulpended in the haUer, though there wasbreath enough to play the lungs, the vains were |jftopt that carried on the circulation of the blood,fo the man died like the raft of his fellow rogues.On which the duke humouroufly rebuked the lur-geon, by telling him, he had but half learnt histrade; he knew how to let the air to a man’slungs; but did not uuderftand cafing hW veins.[This Gordon had beea a bold higwaymantwenty .years, had robbed the Chefter mail andhanged his accomplice, was tried for robbing theFilhmpogers company in Epping-Foreft, but prov¬ed himfeif in Ireland. The robbery he was hang¬ed for was on Mr; Peters, under tfeafurer of theTemple, between Knigbtlb'ridge and Hyde-Park,but being drunk was off his guard, aud faoataken.]FINIS.G L. A S C 0 W,PRINTED BY J & M. ROBERTSON, SALT MARKET,i 8 o 6.