THEComical HistoryOFSimple JohnTwelve Misfortunes;Which happened all in twelve Days qfterthe unhappy Day oj his Marriage*Giving a particular Account of his Courtshipand Marriage to a Scolding WIFE; whichhas been a mortifying Misery to many a poor^ 1 ’ "Hail, byiet.AND HISMAN.O Sirs, Krill you see.GLASGOW:THECOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMPLE JOHNAND msTWELVE MISFORTUNES.QIMPLE JOHN was a widow's son,^ and a course country weaver to hisitrade: He made nothing buL such as-Canvas lor caff-beds, corn and coal4lsacks, drugget and ham was the finestwebs he could la\ his fingers to: he was>a great tump of a iarg, lean lad, aboontsax feet afore he was eighteen yearauld, and, as he said himsel’, he grewtsae fast,, and was in sic a hurry to beihigh, that he did-mot stay to bring a’his judgement with him, but yet hehop 1 it would follow him, at * liewould meet wi’t, as mony a ane doesfThe History of Simple. John, <§r. safter they’re married. He had but aesister, and she had as little sense ashimsel, she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie the wilie weaver, his mither was arattling rattle-scull’d wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s state, to the age oftwenty-one years, he tell’d his mither,he would hae a wife of some sort, eitheryoung or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but head and hips, tongue and tail,he shou’d tak them, and weel l wat ,mither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpennyworth o’ me, tak me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, who had threedoughters, and every arie o’ them hadsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzy, had hundred merks the piece,Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had a humph-back, ahigh-breast, baker-legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth, and goggle-ey’d,a pertect iEsop of the female kmd, withas many c. coked conditions within aswithout, a very lump of loun-like ill-nature, row’d a’ together, as if she had4 The Histoxjj of Simple Johnbeen nine months in a haggles, a se¬cond edition of crooked backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that was bornwith teeth to bite a’ around about him,and yet the wight gaed mad to bemarried.John’s mither tell’d him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sunday’scoat on, and a’ his braws, and a pairo’ new pillonian breeks o’ his mither’smaking. In he comes, and tell’d hiserrand before he would sit down, saysgood-day to you, gocdman, what areye a’ doing here? I am wanting a wife,an ye're a flesher, and has a gude sort¬ing aside you, my mither says ye cansair me or ony body like me, what saeye till’t, goodman? How mony doch-ters hae ye? Are they a’ married yet?I fain wad tak a look o’ some o’ themgin ye like.A wow, said the goodwife, come inby, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer, sit down and gie’s a snuff.—A deed, goodwife, 1 hae nae mills butmy mithcr’s,.ar:d it’s at hame.—Awharewin ye, I’se no ken ye.—I wat, quothand his Twelve Misfortunes. 5he, my name's Jock Sandyman, theyca’ me Simple John the sack-weaver,1 hae nae tocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle-pat, a brass-pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candlestick, agood cock, a cat, twa errock- new be¬gun to lay; my sister Sara is marriedon Sleeky Willie the wyiie weaver, andI maun hae a bagwife or my mitherdie, for truly she’s very frail, and onyharl o' health she has is about dinner¬time; what say ye till’t, goodman? canye buckle me or no?Goodman.) A dear John, ye’re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame vi’ ye? they’re a’ three before ye,which o' them will ye tak?Hout tout, says John, ony o’ themwill sair me, but my mi*her says there’stwa o’ them his fauts. And what istheir fauts, said the good wife? Hout,said John, it’s no meikle faut, but Idinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shali I do withem? said the goodmanJohn.) A deed, goodman, as ye’re aydealing amang dead beasts and livingbeasts, I wad put them awa amang i-6 1 he History of Simple Johnther beasts, or gin ye be aun ony pen-ny, let somebody tak them up o’ des¬perate debt, I sud flie the fykes fraethem, they anger’d you, and sham’dyou baith with their bastards, a wheendaft jades it gets men or they be mar¬ried, and bairns or they get bridals.Gooduifc.) A wat weel that’s true,lad.Girzij.) A weel, John, then, will yetak me; I hae na bastards; how will yeand I do?John.) I watna gin ye be able to geta bastard, yet ye may hae some waurfaut; but ye maun be my pennyworth,for ye’re unco little, and I’m o’er muc-kle, and gin ye an I war arce cardedthrough ither, we may get bonny weanso’ a middlen mak. 1 have nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shouthers,the hands and legs may do, tho’ yourmouth be a wee to the tae side, it willlie weel to^the rock, and I hae a han-tle o’ tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down; a perfect beauty,\vi’ cat’s yellow een, black brows, andand his Twelve Misfortunes. 7red lips, and your very nose is a purpeycolour; ye hae nae fauts at a’: Now,whan will we be matried?Girzy.) Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that yet.John.~\ What the yeltow lass, shouldna ye be ready whan I’m ready, andevery body says, that the womens’ ayready.Goodman.~\ Ye’ll hae to. come back,and bring somebody wi’.you, and we’llgree about it, and set the day whanye'll be married.John.'] A weel. goodman. I’ll tell mymither o’r, and come back on.Monon-d .y, and we’ll hae a chapin o’ ale, androastedcheeseonthegood chance o’t: butI maun hae a word o’ the bride outby,to convoy me, an a quiet speak to her-sel about it.Goodwife.] A wow na, John, thedaft louns will laugh at you, and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andsh -’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John, and the bride andher twa sisters, goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and whatJ8V The History of Simple Johnhe would say. Nov/, says John, Girzymy dear, my braw pretty woman, an yebe in earnest, tell me, for by my sutheTm no scorning.Girzy.'] Indeed, John, I’m very will¬ing to tak ye, but ye needna tell everybody about it.Joini.] Then gie me a kiss on that.He shuts his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I cou’d eat you a* l likeyou sac weel, it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ atween us, I’se tell my mithersae bonny as ye’re: O gie me anitherkiss yet, an then I’ll go. One o’hersisters standing by in a dark corner, getsha’d o* a cow’s head, which wanted a*the skin but about the mouth, and shutsit out towards his mouth, wrhich .hekiss’d in the dark. O, cried he, butyour mouth be cauld since I kiss’d yelast, and I think he hae a beard, I sawnae that afore, or is’t wi’ spinning tow,that riiaks your mouth sae rough ateen?Hame he coir.es, and tells his mitherthe speed and properties of the marriage.and his Tweke Misfortunes.9A’thing? was got ready, and next week.Sleeky Willie the weaver and him cameto gree the marriage, and stay a''nightwi’ the bride, and teach John goodnunners, for whan John was hungry,he minded his meat more'than his goodbehaviour, and he never was fu’ tillthe dish was tume. Willie the weaverwas to tramp on his fit, when hethought he had suppet enough; so allthings being agreed upon short andeasy terms, and the wedding day set,they were to be three times cry’d onSunday, and quietly married on Mon-on day, neither piper or fidler to beemployed, but sweith awa* hame fraethe Minister, and into the bed amangthe blankets; Ha, ha, cries John, that’sthe best o’r. a’.Now every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat baggies, the very smell wada done a hungry body gude, but Juhnhad only got twa or three soups, untilane of the butcher’s meikle dogs tram¬ped on John’s fit, w'hich he took to bethe Weaver, and then he would sip naemair. Alter supper they went to bed^*/10 The History of Simple JohnJohn and rhe Weaver lay together, andand then he abused' the Weaver fortramping soon, which he denied;but O, sai i John, there’s a hantle o’tlet and l saw whare it was set, they’rea’ V,; pn g, I’M go rise an tak a soup o’ty t Ay, een do sae, said Sleek) Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me to*. Awaythen John goes tr the amry, ard laysto cfap haggles, oM his ain haggies couldhatvi nae mP ; then br'mgi, the rest toSleeky Willis; but v ^ ad of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and her twa sisters lay,th. y being fast asleep, speaks slowly,Will ye tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing so, he putsa great spoonful close into one of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears all thatpast,; fed tries' out the bed, and sups outthe remainders, and sets up the dishwhere it was, leaves the amry door o-pen, to let the cats get the blame of sup¬ping the haggles, and’awa’ they goes tobed; bu- poor John could get nae sleepfor drouth; up he gets in search of theand tits Twelve Misfortunes, 11'water-cann, and finding an empty pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therew *.s any water in k, but finding nane,he closed his hand when it was withinthe pitch0-, and then could not get itout, goes to the bed and tehs SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and goout to a knocking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make anoise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggles laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness (as she-took it tobe) off the tail of her sark, and shebeing in a louring posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes o’erher hurdies with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off bhe runswith the f. ight, round a turf-stack, andinto the home before him. John comesin trembling to the bed again, wi’ thefright praying to preserve him, for sica knocking-stane he never yet saw^forit ra clean awa’ when he brake thepig upon’t.J2 The History of Vhnple JohnNow John wis furnished in a housebv us father- -la ; the bed, loom,hed les, treadles, hm^bs, reeds, andpit wheel, was a’ b ought aod set upbetore the marriage, which was keeptas a profound secret-, so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house a’ at ae time. So or the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, howthey were to work, and keep house:John was to keep the house in meat,meal, fire, and water; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes;the father-in-law to pay the rent forthree years; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, until they had children; andtheir first child was to be a John after ,its ain Daddy, get it wha will, if a boy;and if a girl, Girzy after its ain Minny,as he said, w ha had wrought best for’t.and his Twelve Misfortunes.13MISFORTUNE I.THEN she ordered John to rise andbegin his -wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the tvva new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJ .hn opened the door, and gone out,with a pig in every hand, than a* theb ys and girls beirg gather’d in a croudto see him, gave a loud hazza, and clap¬ping their hands at him, poor John,not knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to dap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tither, tillbaith went to pieces, and that was acheerful huzza to baith young and auldthat was looking at him : Girzel thewife draws him into the house, and tohim she flies with the wicked wife’sweapon, her Tongue and Tangs, andmade his rib' to crack, saying, “ Theytell’d me ye was daft, but I’ll ding thedafling out o’ ye, I’ll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi’ you.” PoorJohn sat crying and clawing his lugs,14 The History of Simple John“ Ha, ha,” said he, “ its nae bairn’sp>lay tobe married, I find that already ”His Mither-in-law came in and made uppeace, went to a cooper, and got th. na big wooden stoup to carry in theirwater.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was'sent to theFlesh-market an errand to his Father-in-law, who gave him a piece of fleshto carry home, and as he was comingout of the Market, he saw six or sevenof the flesher-dogs fall on and worry ata poor country colly-dog; “ Justice, jus¬tice,” cries John to the dogs, “ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly raskals, thatfa’s a’ ^n ae poor beast, been ye sudea’ be put in the toubooth, and ta’en tothe bailies, and hang’d for rhe like o*that; it’s perfect murder;” and in heruns amongst the dogs, “ Afid be hang’dto you a’ the gither, What is the quar¬rel? What is ’he quarrel?” John flingsdown the flesh he had carrying, andgrips the colly, who took John for anand his Twelve Misfortunes- 15enemy too, and bites his ban s till theblood followed, the wh-'le of t he tykescomes on a poor J h", ti’l down begoes m the dirt at; ontr^ their feet, andone of the dogs runs ff with his fie<h,so J dm went home both dirty audbloody witliout his flesh, tellM Gn zyhowit <happcr ed, who applied her oldpla’sterj*her Tan;Ts a d Tongue tnaieJohn to curse tue very Minister thatmarried tVio, and wisn’d he mightne’er do 3 better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent to thewell with the great stonp to bring inwater for breakfast; and as he was pull¬ing the stoup out of the well, in he tum¬bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he could na win out: some peo¬ple passing, by chance, heard Tie slunge,cried, and run to his relief, haul’d himout half dead, and helped him into thehouse; and after getting a dry sark, hewas comforted with the old plaister, herTongue and the hard Tangs.1G The History of Simple JohnMISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says. “John, I mustgo to the market myself, tor if you goyou’il fight wi’ the dog', and lee themrun awa’ wi* ony thing ye buy: seethat ye put on the pwt, and ha’et boil¬ing again I come h#me.” John prom¬ise^ weel, but performs very badly.She’s no sooner gone, than he puts onthe new pat, without any MKiter in it,ard a good fire to make it boil, andaway he goes to the unhappy well, fillshis 'touo, and sets it down, to look ata parcel of boys playing at Cat and Dog,they persuaded John to take a gamethem, on he plays, till aue o* the boyscries, 4 Hev Jvhn, yonders your Girzycoming ” John runs info the housewi’ the water, and the pat being redhot on the fire, he tumes in the cauldwater into it, which made the pat fl- eall in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John runs for it, and sheruns after him, crying, ‘C atch the thief:*some persons stopped hhnj she comesand his Twelve Misfortunes. 17up, and then she laboured him all theway hame, and he, crying, “ O Sirs,ye see what it is to be married !” TheMither-in-law had to roak up peace a-gain, and he promised good behaviourin time to ccme.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent himto the water to wash some cow’s pud¬dings and turn them on a spindle,shewing him how he was to do or hewent away. John goes to the watervery willingly, and as he turn’d andwash’d them, he laid them down be¬hind him, where one of his Father-in-law's big dogs stood, and ate them upas fast as he laid them down, till all wasgone but the very la t ane, which hecarried hame in his hand, crying like achild, and underwent a severe tost of theold plaister,before any mercy was shown.MISFORTUNE VI.His Father-in-law, next day, sent him18 The History of Simple Johnaway to bring home a fat calf he hadbought in the country, and tied up themoney in a napkin, which he carried inhis hand for fear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty as it was all in half¬pence, and as he was going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after ahorse, who cries to John to stop thehorse; John meets him on the top ofthe bridge, and when he would not bestopped for him, he knocks the horseon the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most ofthe halfpence flew over the bridge in thewater, which made poor John go homecrying very bitterly for his loss, anddread of the old planter, which he gotvery sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldAnd any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismoney, he kills one of them, and ripsand his Tzvelve Misfortunes. 19her up, but found none of it in her gutsor gabbie; then, says he, they have beenbut looking for it. I’ll go do as they didjstrips off his clothes and leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a ducking in whichtime, a rag-man came past, and took a-way all his clothes. So he went homenaked to get a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.The next morning she sent him to afarm-house, for a pi^ful of butter-milk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s bull and another bullwas fighting: the farmer’s bull being liketo Ipse, John runs in behind him, andsets his head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theether; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, and the other bull camefull drive upon John, pushed him down,broke the pig, and spilt the milk. SoJohn went home to get his auld plaister,which b jgan to be an usual diet to him,and so he regarded it the less.20 The History of Simple JohnMISFORTUNE IX.Kis Mother-in-law, with several auidwitty wives, held a private council onJohn’s conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a’ his misfortunes, C?dd him a war-lock to his face, and said. He had putsuch a black bargin in his hand, thathe was ruined for ever; insisted eitherto unmarry them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa’, forshe has a lump of miscliief on her backand anither on her breast, and the resto’ her body is a clean deil.” The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven: “Ye’re a baistliar, says John, for I was married inyour ain kitchen, and a’ the blackguardsabout the town was there, an it had abeen heaven they wadna win in, ye tell’tme that matrimony was sic a happystate, but an ye had gotten as monyand his Twelve Misfortunes. 21weel pay’d skins as I hae gotten, ye wada kend what it is; ill chance on you sir;and out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes, and breaking the Min¬ister’s windows,forwhich hewas catch’d,and put ♦Wa hours in the stocks, and atlast his lump of Corruption came andrubbed his lugs, threw his nose, gothim out, and drove him home beforeher; took a resolution, never to set himabout any business in time coming, butkeep him on his loom.MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep a’ that *night for scolding. John gat up inthe morning lang or day, leaving hisTormentor in bed; fell asleep upon hisloom, with the candle in his hand, andso set the web, heddles, reed, and trea¬dle-cords in a fire, by chance his oldViper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone, shegot, and wi h her cries alarm’d theneighbourhood, who came to her relief;22 The History of Simple Johnbut poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XI.After the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopr, hewent to bed and sleept a’ that day. andfollowing night. On the next dayhaving nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen’s nest, who had ta’ensome by-place to lay her eggs in; so aspoor John was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the walls, the kill-ribs brake,and down he goes with a vengeanceinto the logie, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner; up he couldnot win, but had to creep out at thelogie below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose a’ running a blood.In this condition, she pitied and la¬mented for him very nr uch, tied hissores and laid him in bed; tin n satdown very kii diy, saying, “My dear,and my lamb, do ye think there is onyo’ your banes broken? and what parto' you is sairest? And what will I getand his Twelve Misfortunes. 23to do you Ejood?” Oh!’said he, “Girzy,I’m a’ brizzled atween the feet.” “ Areye indeed,” quoth she, “ then I wishye bad broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anither, useless ae way, anduseless mae ways; upo’ my word, ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like.”MISFORTUNE XII.Now, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’ hirp-ling on a staff, one came and told himhis mother had died last night. “ Oh,hbch! said John, and is my Mither cleandead! O an she wad but look downthrough the lift, and see how I’m guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she wad sendT eath for me too. I’m cut o’ a mither,out o’ a wife, out o’ my health andstrength, and a’ my warklooms.” HisMother-in-law came and pleaded torhim: *• Haud your tongue, Mither,”said Gitzy,tL if ye kend what ail’d him,ye' wad na speak about him, he’s useL s.no worth the keeping in a house, bto ca’ him to die like an auld beast ~24 The history of Simple John, <§r.jdykeside.” “ Hour tout, co’ the auldwife, we’ll trak o’ him and he’ll mendagain.’’ So John got peace made up af¬ter a’, and he was easier mended thanthe burnt web; got all his tradles andwarklooms set in order, the wife’s tongueexcepted, which was made of worm¬wood, and the rest of her body of seawater, which is always in a continualtempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Jury,if it be not easier to deal wi’ fools thanheadstrong fashions fouks; owns he hasbut an empty scull, but his wicked wifewants wit to pour judgment into it,never tells him o’ danger till it comeupon him, for his Mother said, he wasa biddable bairn, if ony body had boento learn him wit. , ,aFINIS.GLASGOW:fished and Sold by R. Hutchison & Co.1817.