CHEAP TRACTS, Mo. 6.Awful Phenomena of Nature !Mummy •Mountains*AN ACCOUNT OF A LATE ERUPTION OFVESUVIUS?Discovery of Herculaneum;Which was overwhelmed by an eruption in the year 79:WITH AN HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OFMOUjVT etna.The dread Volcano., ministers to good ;Its smothered flames might undermine the world.DUNFERMLINE :PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.Burning- Mountains.A N ACCOUNT OFThe late Eruption of Vesuvius.One Of the grandest, and at the same time ;the most awful spectacles in nature is that ,of an active volcano, throwing out ashes, [pumice stones, and cinders, and pouring iforth a torrent of ignited lava, which, like ia vast deluge of liquid fire, lays waste thecountry over which it runs, and buries all |the works of human art.Volcanoes, are found in almost all partsof the world, but most commonly in theneighbourhood of the sea, and especially insmall islands; for instance, in Italy, Sicily, ,Iceland, Japan, the Caribee, Canary, andCape Verd Islands, and the Azores. There3ire also numerous volcanoes in Mexico andPeru, especially Pichincha and Cotopaxi.The subterraneous fires which are continu¬ally kept up in an open volcano, depend ingeneral on sulphureous combination anddecomposition, like the heating of aheap ofwet pyrites, or the union of sulphur andiron filings; but in other cases they ap¬proach more nearly to the nature of com¬mon fires. A mountain of coal has beenburning in Siberia for almost a century,and must probably have undermined, insome degree, the neighbouring country.The two most remarkable valcanoes arethose of Mount Etna and Mount Vesuvius;and the following is an account of a re¬cent eruption of the latter.'1 his celebrated volcano, which hasfor so many ages attracted the attentionaf mankind, and the desolating eruptions ofwhich have been so often and so fatally ex¬perienced, is distant, in an eastern direction,ibout seven miles from Naples. It rises,insulated upon a vast arid well cultivatedplain, presenting two summits on the samebase; in which particular it resemblesMount Parnassus. One of these. La Somma,is generally agreed to have been the Vesu¬vius of Strabo and the ancients; theother, having the greatest elevation, is themouth of the volcano, which almost eon-stantly emits smoke. Its height above tilfllevel of the sea is a,900 feet, and it may 1;ascended by three different routes, whiestire very steep and difficult, from the conf!cal form of the mountain, and the loo.-ttashes which slip from under the feet; stillfrom the distance it is not more than thr«|Italian miles. The circumference of tlliplatform on the top is 5,024 feet, or near !a mile. Thence may be seen PortkiiCapra, Ischia, Pausilippo, and the who Icoast of the Gulf of Napl es, bordered wiiiiorange-trees: the prospect is that of Par |disc seen from the infernal regions.On approaching the mountain, its aspetldoes not convey an) impression of terra]nor is it gloomy, being cultivated for moilthan two-thirds of its height, and haviiinonly its brown top barren. There all vesfdure ceases; yet when it appears coverenwith clouds, which sometimes encompaajiits middle only, this circunastance rathejadds to, than detracts from, the magnifllcence of the spectacle. Upon the lavnwhich the volcano long ago ejectecjland which, like great furrows, extenji:4 into the plain, and to the sea, are bui]|*houses, villages, and towns. Gardens, vinesBj yards, and cultivated fields surround themiibut a sentiment of sorrow, blended with apflprehension about the future, arises, on tlwf;5jscoltection, that beneath a soil so fruitfulEnd so smiling, lie edifices, gardens, andiK'hole towns, swallowed up. Portici restsupon Herculaneum; its environs upon Res¬ina; and .at a little distance is Pompeii, ini he streets of which, after more than seven-Keen centuries of non-existence, the aston¬ished traveller now walks. After a long-interval of repose, in the first year of thereign of Titus (the 79th of the Christianrera,) the volcano suddenly broke out,i Reeling thick clouds of aslies and pumice'stone, beneath which Herculaneum, Stabia,land Pompeii, were completely buried. Ibisleruption was fatal to the elder Pliny, the ;historian, who fell a victim to his humani¬ty and love of science.There have been thirty-nine eruptions of•Mount Vesuvius recorded by historians;i the last one makes the fortieth. Previousjto the recent eruption, Vesuvius displayed)• all round the openings which it had made]. at different periods, and to which they gavethe name of mouths. From those opening^flowed the lava, the name given the tor¬rents of liquified matter which rushed out|i of the bursting sides of the Mount.Running from the summit, it spread!over the fields at the bottom, and to thj■ sea. The matter, when cold, hardens to Iji stone. It is used to pave the streets CIL**   „i6Naples, and in the erection of solid hnillSo f16 d itb, of.the 8'uIf’ °r boilirafter, from which arises a constant smokis calculated to be about 543 feet Itcommon, at all times whe« it has’raimmuch, to see torrents of water descend wi1a loud noise from Vesuvius; but thowhich descend during an eruption do tlmost damage.These waters, stopped at the foot of tlmountain by immense masses of cindeand sand, which from a sort of dyke amment their force, and render the fall 'motimpetuous. To these floods of wateshocks of earthquakes are added, whictogether. ^ mterVals durin8' « mdnt-oiih nflnTnerUpt1i0n cornmenced on tfi-Gth of October, about twelve o’clock. ;dreadtul internal noise was heard througl,out the neighbourhood ; the Java beo-an tappear, and soon flowed in a torrent^abouof la va b}?lf' •,e"e,Xt da-y a second bod't Java, half a mile m breadth, issued forthpi" the old>va, on the side ohosco-1 re-Case: a third and fourth streansoon afterwards burst forth.The following particulars of the proores-P ^,e eruption are from private letters •-Naples* Ot/o/w, 23.—You will havei.ard, iny dear brother, before, this reach7you, of the awfully grand eruption of Vesu-ivius. Nothing similar has been witnessedsince 1794, wlien the town of Torre deliGfreco, situated at about four miles fromthe crater, was partly destroyed. Duringthe evening of the 21st, a little smoke ap¬peared, and distinct reports of artilleiy, asit s6cm6(*:, proceeded from that part of thobay. Had the sky not been perfectly se¬rene, one would have considered it to beithunder. Towards nine, o’clock, however,a little fire appeared at the old crater, anddeft us no longer in doubt about the causeof the intonations. At a few minutes pastEleven, it burst forth in all ks fury, throw¬ing out stones to a great height. In three |jhours afterwards, the lava rolled foith intwo grand streams, one taking towards |Resina, where the king’s \ ilia, called LaFavorite, is situated, and the other inclin¬ing in a more southerly direction to Torredel Anmmziata. The torrent of lava whichflows towards Resina has already covered1100 acres of ground. The showers of ashesdarken the sky, and fall even in the streetsof the capital. I he stones which havefallen at Bosco-Tre-Case have accumulatedto the height of five palms. 1 he eruptionof stones are frequent, and the sounchjwhich issue from the mountain are frighlfulAll the people who lived near the voieamj8bave fled. About 800 persons from tlneighbouring villages have been receiveby order of the Police and Prefecture.Oci'. 2o—fhe fire seems to-day to tspent, b it as the wind has changed to thsouth east or, as it is called, Sirocco, thsmoke and ashes have come over Napleand the mountain, with Portici, and aalong the bay, are invisible, while at micday torches are almost necessary, and unbreuas absolutely so. The King’s Villa aKesma was yesterday stripped of its furnii tu,'e’ a!,\d 1 may say that the whole line acoast, 1 ortici to Castel-a-Mar, has been aKmdoned, unless we except the curiouswho flock in crowds to see what is passingI he eruption of cinders and smoke at th?moment presents the appearance of a vervtmck and elevated black cone, which thdNob b T? tOWarKS Somnia’ °ttajano, anJ^ " nmber °f i,lclividuals whcfled fiom the villages augmented considerajbly yesterday. Last night about 2000 cbthese unfortunate persons received pecunia< ry assistancej , °cf- 26—We expect that the eruptiori will soon entirely cease. The columns opinders and smoke are decreasing, and th<l detonations are less frequent and loudban heretofore. Most of the people whotad fled are returning to their homes. It9ained copiously last night, which has hadhe effect of purifying the atmosphere,,.vhich before was filled with clouds of blacktshes. The rain, too, has washed the plants,.vhich have assumed their natural colourand appearance, which under our climate is,wen at the end of autumn, so striking andagreeable. The summit of Vesuvius is vi¬able, and it appears I hat the dreadfuleruption which has taken place has tornaway a part of the crest of the volcano.Oct. 28.—The eruption is completely atan end; but violent explosions of cindersstill continue. The inhabitants of thecountry have returned to their homes.Portici and la Torre del Greco have sufferedno other injury than what arises from theirbeing in a great part covered with ashes and.'stones. A portion of the territory ofResina is covered with lava, but only wherelava had formerly lain. The tower of theAnnunziata has sustained injuries which itwill not be easy either to estimate or repair.At Ottaiano the fire has consumed 52 acresof wood. These are all the details whichhave hitherto reached us.The following additional particulars ofthis interesting event are contained inanother private letter from Naples datedOctober 29:—Vesuvius is comparatively quiet, but it|still throws out immense columns of smoker10and the lapillo and fine ashes continue to!rain round the country according to th«(direction of the wind. Yesterday the winoblew over Naples, and it was a very rain^day. To my surprise, on going out, 1 foundthat the water which fell was of the colou iof mud, indeed so thickly was it mixetwith a shower of the fine volcanic ashestthat it has besmeared the houses and treesand every thing exposed, in a most euriouamanner.The first stream of lava thrown out at the i:! west side of the crater, was about half &mile in breadth; it passed between the her¬mitage of San Salvatore and the ruins of®little country-house belonging to the King;j; and descended towards Resina. After hav-/ing damaged a considerable deal of land, it.stopped at a spot called 11 Monte.The second came out at gthe same time^kand from the same mouth as the first; itjiwas about two miles broad, and descended..towards the village called Bosco ditre Case; iI ]rjt as it run over former lava, it did not iinjury.The third proceeded from a mouth thatfi| opened during this eruption low down the pij sides of the volcano; it ran towards the:!; olace called II Monte, but it also flowing g] j)ver old lata, did no injury. The second h( ind third stopped nearly in the same place.. j11The fourth aud last descended from anold mouth called Vulcano, on the south side;reaching Pedementina, it joined itself witha smaller stream of lava, thence jt fan onover old lava, as far as the JtiQllpw culledA trie del Cavallo. It seemed to menace LaTorre del Greco.It has been observed tjiat the voleaific !matter, not lava, thrown out by Vesuviusthis time, taken in mass, is much more con¬siderable than the lava itself.The damage done by the eruption is notso considerable as the dreadful and mena¬cing appearances of the mountain wouldhave induced me to imagine. Portici andthe Torre del Greco have suffered no otherinconvenience than that arising from .somesharp showers of lapillo and ashes. Kesinahas had about twenty nioggia of land' covered- A moggia is a Neapolitan mea¬sure, equivalent to about four^tifths of anEnglish acre. From the Torre del Grecoto the Torre del Annunziata, the road isnow covered to the depth of two feet withlapillo and fine ashes. The Torre delAnnunziata has suffered most ; all its fine¬ly cultivated lands are covered with a verythick stratum of lapillo and ashes. NearOttajano, about forty or fifty moggia ofwood were consumed. Yesterday, thispart suffered greatly from a deluge ofwarm water, mixed with ashes.12A great number of labourers aided by ijAustria^ and Neapolitan soldiers, are em-ttployed in clearing the roads. The heavyrains which are expected at this season willdo much, but I fear that the country round jthe Torre del Annunziata will not be speedi- j-ly restored to the industry of man.The distance at which the fine ashes have ifallen is astonishing; the master of anEnglish vessel, which came in last Satur-day, gathered them on the deck the 3Wednesday evening preceding, when he )was off the Tuscan coast, at least two ]hundred miles from Naples.if ' "■! THE DISCOVERY OF HERCULANEUM.The discovery of the ancient city ofHerculaneum, justly excited the curiosity>f all men of letters, on account of themmerbus lights which the curiosities foundherein might be expected to throw upon f;f be history of the ancient arts, &c. These 3xpectations were well founded; for the 3pictures, in particular, which were found E‘ here, may convey to us a good idea of the 91 tate ofpainting among the ancients.Herculaneum was situated betw'een rJ Naples and Pompeii, near the sea, on the s^ anks of the Sarno, and at the foot of 113jsuvius; between the spot where nownds the royal palace of Portici, and thelage of liesina. If this tract of countryso pleasant now, after so many repeatedpptions of Vesuvius, we may wx-U sup-se it to have been much more so, whene Romans retired to it, either fromumphs or business, and ornamented itith their villas. We need not wonder,erefore, if so small a city as Herculaneumis should contain a theatre, and otheragnificient buildings, adorned with aeat profusion of paintings and sculp-res, many of them certainly in a good>te, among a much larger number ofd ones.Herculaneum wras overwhelmed by aolent eruption of Mount Vesuvius, one 1st of November, in the year of Christ, and the first of the reign of Titus. He¬re this, Pompeii had been entirely, anderculaneum in great part, destroyed byterrible earthquake, which happened a-ut sixteen years before, and lasted seve-il days.That eruption of Vesuvius, in whicherculaneum was destroyed, is the firstion record. Dio Cassius relates, that thisuption w as accompanied by violent earth-takes and tremendous noises; that thelies, flames, and fiery stones, filled the air,14earth, and sea, to the destruction of iv.-mherds, and tidkls, and all tlie birds adtishes; that the sun was as it were eclipseand the day turned into night; that Hcneiwas covered with showers of ashes, v. hi'tiextended even to Africa, Syria, and Kgykthat Herculaneum and Pompeii were awtroyed; and, in short, that the scene \hso dreadful, and the confusion of the iahabitants so great, those wlro were at isfrunning to land, those who were at la|lto sea ? those who were in houses makigfor the fields, those who were in the fiej*5for fepsees; that people thought either tit1chaos was returned again, or that tl*e uir*versal conflagration of the earth Vfcommencing.Dreadful as this calamity was, it appeisthat the cities were not buried so suddhl- ly, but that the inhabitants had time#save themselves and the most valuable :itheir effects; very few bones have boihitherto found, and very little money, pltAor other moveables of great value.The first discovery of subterraneiruins, was made in the year 1689 ; whhon opening the earth at the foot of Moot1 j Vesuvius, the workmen observed reguttstrata of earth and vitrified stone. T#i I disposed the owner of the. ground to ct»^ I tinue the digging, and at the depth ftwenty-one feet he found some coals, im,A   —A*16,eys of doors, a:id two uii.riptioiis, fromhich it appeared Unit the aneitiu city of'ompii formerly stood there.| In tlie year 1711, the duke di Belbofi,(esigning to build himself a villa on the *ei>.lore at 1‘ortici, liad a mind to cover somef tlie ground-rooms with plaster. He•new that some of the inhabitants oflesina, in digging for a well, had foundpgments of antique Greciale, marble, andnerefore ordered the workmen to continueas deep as the vrater would permit,i order to get a sufficient quantity of thisiiarble for Ids plaister. Scarce liad they,egan their operations, when they foundome beautiful statues, among which, wasne of Hercules, in marble, and another. lough t to be a Cleopatra. Proceedingirther, they met with several columns ofdomed alabaster, belonging to a templefa circular form, adorned on the outsideith twenty-four columns, the greatestart of w hich were of the yellow antique;ie inside of the temple had the samelumber of columns, between which wereatuos of Grecian marble, and it was pavedith the yeUovv antique. 7he statues were'•‘hf to Vienna by the duke di Belbofi,as aresent to prince Eugene of Savoy. After(ns, all farther search was discontinued, for■ar of getting into^ a dispute with theministers of state.16In December 1738, his Sicilian majest •being at Portici, and some fragments tmarble having been found in the wefewhich the duke di Belbofi had sunk, tl}king gave immediate orders for the bottoi >of it to be searched: whereupon the worl;men cutting by the hole which the duld<had made, found several fragments tstatues, &c. seventy feet below the prese? isurface.On pursuing their work, new discoverieopened upon them,—a theatre, tempi* qstreets, &c. Most of the houses were fountto be decorated both within and withou 'with paintings, which with the statuelfform the most valuable part of these sulterranean treasures. The grounds of tl [fpaintings w’ere seldom bright, but generaivly of some dark colour, black, green, yellovor dusky red. The stucco w7as very thick'and the workmen contrived to cut it froithe walls without the least injury to tl 1paintings. They wrere done in pannelwith grotesque ornaments round them inot \W fresco, as was at first supposed, bi ■in distemper; that is, the colors wTerep.«!mixed up with water, and incorporatetwith the wall itself, by laying it on whi fthe stucco was wet; but with sizor some other glutinous matter, and lai;on superficially.17The connoisseurs have greatly varied inheir judgment of these paintings; some *“‘Xtolling the coloring and the design abovehe modern art, and others depreciatinghem. In general, however, if we exceptome few, we may discover in them theouches of a master, great spirit, and pro¬bund study.A DESCRIPTION OF MOUNT y£TNA,May, 1 7 4 0.On the 27th, by day break, we set off to'isit mount iF.tna, that venerable and re-pectable father of mountains. His base,j'Od his immense declivities, are coveredrith a numerous progeny of his own ;for every great eruption produces a newfoountain ; and perhaps, by the number of'hese, better than any other method, theHumber of eruptions, and the age of JEtnatself might be ascertained.The whole mountain is divided into threeistinct regions, called the Fertile Region;he IVootl// Region ; and the Barren Region.1 These three are as different, both in cli¬mate and productions, as the three zones ofie earth ; and perhaps, with equal proprie-might have been styled the Torrid, theemperate, and the Frigid zone. The firstr18region surrounds the mountain, anu consututes the most fertile country in the woion/all sides of it, to the extent of atfourteen or fifteen miles, where the woo<f)<region begins. It is composed almosttirely of lava, which, after a number of ag biis at last converted into the most fertileall soils.At Catania, the harvest was entirely ov.and the heats were insupportable; hathey were moderate, and in many places ti;corn is as yet green. The road for th«twelve miles is the worst I ever travelkentirely over old lavas and the months'piextinguished volcanoes, now converted ifto corn fields, vineyards, and orchards.IhkiThe fruit of this region is reckonedfinest in Sicily, particularly the figs',which they have a great variety. Onethese of a very large size, esteemedflavour above all the rest, they pretendpeculiar to iRtna.T/ie lavas, which as I have already sc >.arm this region of the mountain, take th hrise Jrom, an infinite number of the mik.beautiful little mountains on earth, whichevery where scattered on the immense decli • >ty of jEtm. These are all of a regtai^figure; either that of a cone, semisphere; a\lall but a very few are covered with beautifitrees, and the richest verdure: Every en" \U19ion generally forms one of these mountains.4s the great crater of Aftna itself is raisedo such an enormous height above the lowerregions of the mountain, it is not impossible,hat the interned fire raging for a vent, even''Mind the base, and no doubt vastly belmv it,hould be carried to the height of twelve orlii? teen thousand feel, for jrrobably so highs the sumnfit of Afina. It has thereforemieralh/ happened, that after shaking themountain and its neighbourhood for someme, it at last bursts open its sides, and this? called an eruption. At first it only sendshrth a thick smoke and showers of ashes,hat lay waste the adjacent country: Thesere soon followed by red hot sto?ies, andocks of a great size, thrown to an immenseeight in the air. The Jail of these stones,•tgether with the quantifier of ashes dis-harged at the same time at last formie spherical and conical mountains I havementioned. Sometimes this process is finished,l the course o/ a Jew days, sometimes it lastsyr months, which was the case in the greatruption 166‘9. In that case, the mountainwmed is of a great size; some of them areot less than seven or eight miles round andpu ards qf 1000.feet in perpendicidar height;'hers are ?iot more than two or three milesound, and 3 or 400feet high.O20Our landlord at Nicolosi ^ave us an account jthe singular fate of the beautiful country near Hybl3t no great distance from hence. It was so celebratfor.its fertility., and particularly for its honey, thit was Called Mel Passi, till it was overwhelmby the lava of /Etna. The mountain from whenthe first eruption issued, that covered Mel Passi,known by the name of Monpelieri. This mounts Iwas formed by the first eruption that destroyed tcountry of Mel Passi, and is of a very old date,buried a great number of villages aud country houseand particularly two noble churches, which are meregreted than all the rest, on account of three statu-reckoned at that time the most perfect in the islarThey have attempted, but in vain, to recover theras the spot where the churches stood could neverjustly ascertained. Indeed it is impossible it shoufor these churches were built of lava, which it is wknown is immediately melted, when it comes iicontact with a torrent of new erupted matter : AMassa says, that in some eruptions, of iEtna, the Ishas poured down with such a sudden impetuosithat in the course of a few hours, churches, pala*and villages, have been entirely melted down,the whole run off in fusion, without leaving the lemark- of their former existence. But if the lavahad any considerable time to cool, this singular eflnever happens.The great eruption of 1669, after shaking the whcountry around for four months, and forming a vlarge mountain of stones and ashes, burst out abhalf a mile above Monpelieri, and descending liktorrent, bore directly against the middle of the mo-tain, and (they pretend) perforated it from side to sithis however, I doubt, as it must have brokenragular form of the mountain, which is not the cBut certain it is, that it pierced to a great de>The lava then divided in two branches; and • b21ounding this mountain, joined again on its southde; and laying waste the vrhole country betwixtpat and Catania, scaled the walls of that city, andioured its flaming torrent into the ocean. In its way,is said to have destroyed the possessions of nearjO.OOOpeople, and reduced them to beggary. It form-I several hills, where there were formerly vallies,l-d filled up a large lake, of which there is not now':ie least vestige to be seen.. As the events of this eruption are better knowniian any other, they tell a great many singular storiesjf it; one of which, however incredible it may ap¬pear, is well ascertained. A vineyard, belonging to( convent of Jesuits, lay directly on its way. Thisineyard was formed on an ancient lava, probably atin one, with a number of caverns and crevices under;. The liquid lava entering into these caverns, soonlied them up, and by degrees bore up the vineyard;nd the Jesuits, who every moment expected to see; buried, beheld with amazement the whole fieldegin to move off. It was carried on the surface ofte lava to a considerable distance ; and though theireatest part was destroyed, yet some of it remains tolis day.! In an hour and a half’s travelling, after we leftaicolosi, over barren ashes and lava, we arrived onlie confines of the Regione Syhosa, or the Temperatejbne. As soon as we entered these delightful forests,;'e seemed to have got into another world. The air’rhich before was sultry and hot, was now cool and’freshing; and every breeze was loaded with anousand perfumes, the whole ground beiftg covered"er yith the richest aromatic plants. ‘ Many partsf this region are surely the most heavenly spotspon earth; and if/Etna resembles the infernal regions‘“hip, it may with equal justice be said to resembleiradise without.It is indeed a curious consideration, that thisjountain should re-unite every beauty and every22horrcl-: jh-short, all the most opposite and (lissfmiofreets of nature. Here you observe a gulph, t!formerly threw out torrents of fire, now covered wthe most luxuriant vegetation ; and from an objectterror, become one of delight. Here you gather tmost delicious fruit, rising from what was but lata black and baren rock. Here the ground is coverwith every flower ■ and we wander over these be.ties, and contemplate this wilderness of sweets, witheconsidering that but a few yards separate us friliquid fire and brimstone.But our astonishment still increases, on casting aeyes on the higher regions of the mountain. Thewe behold in perpetual union, the two elements tlare at perpetual war; an immense gulf of fire, for evexisting in the midst of snows which it has. not powto melt: and immense fields of snow and ice for evsurrounding this giilph of fire, which they have npower to extinguish.The woody region of .Etna ascends for about eigor nine miles, and forms a zone or girdle, of tbrightest green, all around the mountain. This nig.we passed through little more than the half of farriving some time before sun-set at our lodgingwhich was no other than a large cave, formed bv niof the most ancient and venerable lavas. It is call*T,n Spdortca Del Capriole, or the goats cavern, bcause frequented by those animals ; who take reftqthere in bad weather.Here we were delighted with the contemplationgrave and beautiful objects ; the prospect call sides is immense; and we already seem to 1lifted from the earth, and to have got into a neworld.The Regions Deserta, or the frigid zone of iEtpis the first object that calls your attention. Itmarked out by a circle of snow and ice, which *23j:ls on all sides to the distance of about eight miles.Iithe centre of this circle the great crater of ti etntairr rears its burning head ; and the regions < fnse cold and of intense heat seem for ever to 1 e:ed in the same point.—On the north side of thewy region, they assure us, there are several small>S that are never thawed • and that in many places,snow, mixed with the ashes and salts of tin’untain, is accumulated to a vast depth.Ve had now time to examine a fourth region uf' wonderful mountain, very different indeed, fromothers, and productive of Very different sensations;which has, undoubtedly, given being to all the; I mean the region of fire.i he present crater of this immense volcano is ade of about tbfee miles and a half in circumference(joes shelving down on each side and forms aUlar hollow like a vast amphitheatre. From manyes ot this space, issue volumes of sulphureous'ke, which, being much heavier than the cir-ambient air, instead of rising in it, as smoke' ‘rally does. immediately on its getting out of tb*lr > r?]1ls down the side of the mountain like ai?nt, till coming to that part of the atmosphere ofII same specific gravity with itself, it shoots off*z on tally and forms a large track in the air, ae-{]mg t0 direction of the wind ; which happilyf ’ cametl 11 ^actly to the side opposite to thatre we were placed. The crater is so hot, that it.ry dangerous, if not impossible to go down it •'les, the smoke is very incommodious, and in many:?3’ surface is so soft, that there have been in.-•es of people sinking down in it, and paying forf tcmcnty with their Wves. Near the centre ofcrater is the great mouth of the volcano Whenteflect on the immensityjof its depth, the vast cellsrcaverns whence so many lavas have issued • theof its internal fire, to raise up those lavas to so24vast a height, to support as it were in the airi;even to force it over the very summit of the c Iwith all the dreadful accompaniments ; the boithe matter, the shaking of the mountain, the «sions of flaming rocks, &c. we must allow, th'most enthusiastic imagination, in the midst ofterrors, hardly ever formed an idea of a pla jpunishment more dreadful.It was with a mixture both of pleasure and 1that we quitted this awful scene. But the winfirisen very high, and clouds began to gatherthe mountain. In a short time they formecanother heaven below us, and we -were in ho|seeing a thunder-storm under our feet: A seenis not uncommon in these exalted regions, and 6I have already seen on the top of the uigh Alpathe clouds were soon dispelled again by the forceiiwind, and we were disappointed in our expectafWe left the summit of the mountain aboo’clock, and it was eight at night before w e rtlCatania.—We observed, both with pleasure andthe change of the climate as we descended —the regions of the most rigid winter, w e soon aat those of the most delightful spring. On firtering the forests, the trees were still bare as ictember, not a single leaf to-be seen; but after \vdescended a few miles, wfe found ourselves jmildest, and the softest of climates : the trees :verdure, and the fields covered with all the flov >the summer ; but as soon as wre got out of the ^ aand entered the torrid zone, we found the heat tigether insupportable, and suffered dreadfully;lithem before we reached the city.FINIS.