THE2.S A I N T S D U T YI • i - • •. • • in - .EVIL TIME S:. « * ' * ■ aill. * * * V ■lL. „..... in t \y o ' ASERMON S.Preached from Ifaiah xxvi. 20.3. J < JliBy Mr. JAMES REN\VlgK, Mincer of the Gof-pel, who fuffered in the Grafs-Market of Edinburgh, 1.f lipbn the feventeenth Day of February, 1688.Prov. xviii. 10. The Name of the Lord is a frong Tower; the: ‘Righteous ruimeth into it, and arc fafelPfaJ. xlvi. 1. God is our Refuge and Strength, a very prefeif Help in Trouble.4:* •Lj.Me—‘-g.—-G JL. A S G O W>f*•' •Printed in .the Yer-r, •M',DCC,LlIi,* <THESAINTs DUTY.Haiah xxvi. 20. Come, my People, enter thou into thyChambers, andjhut thy Doors about thee: Hide thy: fclf: as 1* "were, for a little Moment, until the Indig¬nation be over-pafi.THE bowels of tbe Lord’s fympathy towards his people,are always at the burlting out, and he dow not fee themforfaking their own mercy, and llraying from him; butis much taken up in lamenting over their folly, and withgiving them many a moving and fweet invitation to come to him,where their happinefs lies, and lays himfelf open to them, andthe riches that are with him, with his arms Ipread abroad, invitingthem by his precious and hearty promiles,leeking nothing of folk,but only that they would come and receive freely; Ifa. yj. 1.H0,everyone that thirlieth, come ye to the waters, and he that hathjio money; come ye, buy and eat, yea come, buy wine and milk‘without money and without price. He opens up precious andich ware, and lays to his buyers and merchants, the commodity3 good, come away, we lhall not call: out about the price; if yesave hearts to receive, I have an heart to give: Come away then,icarty good fellows, we will never ftand upon it; for his not withnim as with the men of the world; for they count them the beltgood-fellows, who give molt and freelielt; but he counts themthe belt good-fellows, who will take molt and freelieltand he'»bars none from him, but difeovers his riches, and invites all;Rev. 22. 16, 17. I am the root, and the offspring of David, andhe bright and morning-itar. .And the fpirit and the bride lay,;ome. And let him that heareth fay, come. And let him thatis athirlt come. And wholbever will, let him take of the waterrf life freely. And if this and fuch fweet invitations will not pre-ail, he makes taws to whip his own to himlelf: Terrors within,.nd judgments without; and he never lays on a blow, but he isflill provoked to It, and when he lays it on, the tear is in his eyes,becaule he mult do it: Lam. 3. 33. For he doth not afBift willing-ly, nor grieve the children of men; yea, when his own turn theirbacks upon him, he lets them not alone, but is itill calling themback again, Zcch. I. 3. Turn ye unto me, laiththe Lord of holis,and I will turn unto you, laith the Lord of holts. And allb, whenhe threatens molt ladly', he fails not to make large promiles to thefaithful, and to giv« them ample invitations to come to him fortheir plealure anil for their lafety, Come my people, &c. WhentheThe Saint's Duty In Evil Times. 3he Lord is coming out of his place, to fit in judgment upon thenhabitants of the earth, and to give out fentence upon them, ac-rording to their doings, and to puniftithem for their iniquities,he calls in his own people to hinilelt, where they are to t e^ hid andjprelerved. O Hand (till amazed, and wonder at his tender love,knd fatherly care of his childrsn, who will not come with his cloak,bf zeal and cloathes of vengeance, to give out, and to execute hisi'entence of jullice upon his enemies, until that he give his peopleiiVir warning thereof; and alio invites them into their Ihelterandlafety, which he hath prepared for them. Ye know Ezek. 9. The, ^ord fends forth, firlt, a man clothed in linen, with a writer’s ink-norn by his (ide, to let a mark upon the foreheads of them that[igh and cry, for all the abominations that be done in the earth,und commands his men, with the flaughtering weapon in theirlands, to go alter, aud finite, and not to fpare nor pity, but toflay utterly, old and young, both maids and little children andTOmen; but not to come near thefe upon whom the mark is let."Now the Lord hath men prepared with flaughtering weapoiv; inI hir Lands to kill a facrifice at Bozrah in Scotland, of prelates andpalignants, and backflidJen minilters and profelibrs; he is com-1 ng to be avenged on that curfed throne, and the fupporters there¬of for their cruelty done again!! him, and of minilters and pro-elfors for their heinous treachery towards him; and this is hisiiommilTion, and our charge unto you, to invite and to call you' nd all that will giveear unto this Rock ol ages, for your flicker*unto the chamber of his prefence and protedion, where ye lhall»e faved with delight. O come my people ; in which words yenave, Firjl, An invitation, come. Secondly, The perlbns invited,ir the determination thereof, my people. Thirdly, That which,hey were invited unto, the chambers of the Lord’s protedion andirefence, whereunto he invites them to enter. Fourthly, Their.|i arriage, and that which they are to do there, (hut thy doors aboutl bee, and hide thylelf, as it were, for a little moment. /’;/?/’/)', TheHiafety of thefe chambers, being an hiding-place, until the indig-ifiation he oyer-pafl; or rather, the determination of the continu-M tion ot their hiding, until the indignation be over-paA,j. As to the_/fr/?, The invitation, Come, O come, a homely tvord'rt>deed; this is no lefs than, behold me! behold me; Here is enouqko give, and here is willingnels to give, only come, only receive,■ nly take, and ye lhall not not want.But to enlarge a little, we lay down a two-fold dodrine. Dod.rA, There is both ability and willingnels in the Lord, to give, ou whatlbever your neccfllty requires.I Ability. What would you have f Salvation and deliverance ;aen he is able to lave to the uttermoA, all that come unto him*Ice. 7. 25- Lilt up your eyes and behold a wonder, which yeA 2 cannot ,4 The Saint's ■ Duty In Evil Tines.cannot behold, behold a wonder which you cannot know, and putforth this queltion, I. Who is this that cotneth from Iw/w/?,With dyed garments from Itozrah ? This that is glorious in hisapparel, travelling in the greatnels of his llrength ? >Cnd hisanfwer will be unto you, It is I that fpeak in righteoufnefs, migh¬ty to lave. Gain-fay it who will, the pleafures ol the Lord fhallprofper in his hand, he (hall lee of the travel of his foul, and befa-tisfied.Now methinks I hear you faying. All that is true, we can letto our leals to it; but O, is he willing ? there is our quell ion.'Willing indeed ; he is not more able than he is willing. Whatare all his promifes, but declarations of his free wiliingnefs ?hat are all hiS Iwect invitations, but to tell you that he is wil¬ing, and ye are welcome ? He that thirffeth let him come, andwhofoever will let him come, and take of the water of life freely.Ah ! what lay you to it now ? Give us your leal tp his willing-nels alfo. Go, lay ye, why not ? Ye have it. Then come away,there is no more wanting, lay come; we knpw he is willing, andv*e fcfto our leal to his willingnefs. But is he willing to receiveme ? Satisly me in that, and then all will be right. Ah cheat! yeire taking your word back again now, and lifting off your fenl;if ye except not.yourfelf, he will not except you : His invitationis unto all; every one come, he that thirlleth, come, he that hathro money, come, Ifa. 5?. X- Now, why will ye be fo ill toyoqr-felves, as to debar yourlelves ? For he doth not do it; ye may aswell, and as rationally fay, that ye are not a body, as to l^y, hedebars yon. His invitation is to every one. Now, affent to this,and then, before you except yourfelfout thereof, ye multfirlt nothave a being, neither of foul nor body. We fay, for you to thinkthat he excepts you, it is all one as to deny yourfelf to be one ofthe children ol Adam. Now, O come, come mgard, what aileththcc ? Come, what would ye have, that is not in Chrilt ? O that1'weet invitation, come., we cannot tell you what is in it; there is adepth'in it that all the angels in heaven cannot fathom; it is noIds than Jcfus Chrill, who was delivered for our ofiences, andwas railed again for our jultiiication, Ipt^uding forth his arms,and inviting you; he is opening up h’unffclf, his all-lufnciency and jfupef-tranlcehdent excellency, and calling unto all poor needy ^things, Come here is enough for you; give in your detires, andyou fir all have them fatisfied to the full. What then have ye tolay to the bargain ? Come, come, it is a rich commodity, andthere is no {licking at the price, only receive and have ; the eahelt6f all terms; there is no more required at yopr hands, But layyc, Ha fir, yc go without your bounds, the invitation in your textis to his people: Ye are all wrong, we are not lo lar our, as yetrow; the invitation is to his people, to enter into their chambers.5.The Saint's Duty in Evil Times- Jand to aJlj-wbo will come and become his people, to enter intotheir chambers ; and lo this is a free market. We mult invite allto come, ye who are enemies, lay down your arms againlthiin,and come ; ye who are upholding his enemies, and complying1 with them in their finful courfes and abominations, by payingthem cels and locality, and by fnrnilhing them meat and drink,| (which is more than a bidding them God fpeed, which the Holy[j Gholt, by the month of John, forbids, fecond epiftle of John to.|j verfe.) Quit the putting the Sword in God’s enemies hands, aj’dcoyie; ye who have given bonds to the adverfary, break youfcovenant with hell and death, and come; break your fworn allc*giance, to the devil, and come, and fwear a new aliegianee to je*(us Chrilt, and ye lhall never rue it: Ye, who compear before their; courts, and pay them fines, whereby, both ye acknowledge then}robbers of God, and calls your duty your fin; quit thefe courles,1 and come : Ye who go to the curates, leave thele perjured blind‘ guides, and come: Ye who go to the indulged, leave thefe trai*torso! God: Ye who go to the backflidden lilcnt minillers, leaveI thefe betrayers of the caufe, and deferters of the crof s of Chri(t»i and come leave all thefe and follow him, he is a true guide, and1 will be.fo unto you: Ye who any ways leek or take the enemiesi proteflion, leave that, and come; come to him, and ye (hall findchambers indeed, both for lafety and delight. Ail ye that areGrangers to him, come; ye that are in nature, come, and ye thatii know him, come. We mult preach that word cowze, unto you, lolong as ye are here, until ye be tranfplanted out of this fpiritaal, warfare unto ccleltial triumph. O lirs, come, come, alk what ye,i will, apd he Hull give it; O come, come.Now it were requilitehere to (how unto you, who it is that comesi unto Chrilt, and who it is that comes not; but it will come as fitlyin the feeond thing which we have noticed in the words, and 1®j we proceed unto it.The fecond thing, ve know, was this, theperfons invited, op:l the determination of the invitatation, my people; thefc are theyI whom he invites to their chambers; his people, they who lub» ,leribe to the terms of his covenant, which is, I will be your God,and ye (lull be my people; they who make a covanant with him1 by facrifice.they who covenant with him.only to be accepted thro*,1 the (acrilice of his Son, and they who facrifice themfelves away t6i to him ; they who cfpoule him to be their God, and his quarrel •3 and concernment to be theirs. But before wc enter upon what1 we propole J, w'e proceed to the third thing in the words, to make3 way tor it, and (o (liall return.‘ _ The third thing was this, Their chambers v/hereinto they areinvited to enter; their chambers, that is, the chambers of the1 Lord’s protection and, pi^lcnce. What arc thde chambers do yeA3 think?6 The Saint's Duty in Evil Times.think ?‘Afk at Soltmon, and he will tell you, Prov. l8. 10. Thename of the Lord is a itrong tower, the righteous ru* into it andare fafe. It is Jefus Chrilt that ye are invited unto.Dott. 2. Thefe chambers are fafe, and they who are therein,need not fear wrath; fee for the confirmation of this point, Ifay32. 2. A man fhall he as an hiding place from the wind, and a co¬vert from the tempcll, as rivers of w ater in a dry place, as a fha-dow of a great rock in a weary land.There is the defeription of thefe chambers, they are chambersoffafety, no wind can win th.ere into them, no tempefi can over¬take thery! who are there, ye are without the flood-mark of thewrath of God, and they are chambers of delight; ye will notwant refrefhing : They are rivers of w'ater in a dry place, the fha-dow of a great rock in a weary land ; we cannot commend themunto you, for they pals the eloquence of angels to do it; but en¬ter thefe, and ye fhall find more than we can tell you ; enter, andye fhall find more than ye will be able to tell yourfelves : Enter,we fay, that is the invitation : But ye will fay, How fhall we en¬ter ? What is requifite for our entering l What will take us in ?Anfwer, faith, that is tke thing will take you in: that is the keythat opens theie doors, the tile of the means, and theexercife offaith, the hand of duty, and the key ot faith; but take notice, itis true laving faith, whereby Chriit is only received and reitedupon; it is faith, as the infh ument apprehending the objedf,Chrilt: It is that, I fay, which mketh you in.Rut foryour more clear uptaking whereof, confider what is re*^uifite in true faving faith. Firft, A deep light and fenfe of yourlolt condition, that ye are deftroyed, liable to the wrath of God,a]nd all the curies in the law. Secondly, A fenfe of this, thattnere is nothing in you, or that ye can do, that will help you; it's beyond all created power to recover you; and fo, not at all feek-mg to eltablifh a fclf-rightcoufnefs; it is, come unto me ye tha la¬bour and are heavy laden, and I will give you red. Thirdly, Aright fight of the all-lufficiency that is in Jel'os Chrift, and his ex¬cellency drawing the heart out after him, as all the delire of thefoul, and fo doling with him. Therefore, ye who remain fenie-Jefs of your lolt condition, have a care; ye are not yet in thefechambers.But that it may be made clear unto you, confider moreover, ifye Would enter into theie chambers, Firlt, Ye mult clofe withChritt alone, there muff nothing have of a fhare in the meritoriouscaufe in bringing you there, but himfelf only; ye muft not lay partof the weight upon him, and partupon yourlelves and your duties:No, no, he mult either have it all on his back,orel(e he will havenone of it; therefore take heed to yourlelves. Secondly, You multcfofe with a full Chrift, as a prophet, priett and king; as a prophet, toz.The Saints Duty in Evil Times. 7to teach you his will; he mult be your fcbool1 mailer: As priefl,thro’ whofe lacrifice only the Father mult accept you, and wh»continually makes interceflion at his right hand for you : And asking, to fway a Iccpter in your louls, to rule you according to his: own law, and to call down, and to call out every thing exaltingitfelf againlt his kingdom within you.O take heed to this, ye who regard not his will, ye whogive,him’ not a throne in your hearts; without this, ye cannot enter intoi thefe chambers; and allure yourlelves, it he were reigning in1 you, ye would care more, and contend more for his kingdom> without you, and in the world. Take heed to this, ye who carenot tho’ a tyrant pollefs his throne, and as it were, fpoil him ofhis princely robes. Take heed to this, yc who Hand not to holddown his kingdom, by upholding of his enemies. Thirdly, Yemult (if ye would enter into thefe chambers') clole with all the in¬conveniences that follow him, his crofs mult be taken up, Lukei 9. 23, 24. If any man will come after me, let him deny himfelf,and take up his crofs daily, and follow me. For wholoever willj lave his life, lhall lofe it: But wholbever fhall iofe his life tor myi lake, the fame fhall fave it. Whatever he calls you unto mult be; embraced; your heart mult fubferive to the reafbnablenels anddefirablenefs of every one of thefe incnoveniences, but let us1 change their names, and call them conveniences and chrjltian.ad¬vantages, and fo we may; for they are of fpecial good ufe to chri-ftians ; they are a part of the dilcipline of Chrilt’s fchool, and1 tome fay this is David’s meaning, Pfat. 116, 13. where he fays, Iwill take the cup of falvation. That is, as they fay, the cup ofafflidtion, as that whereby the Lord works the favation of his peo¬ple ; and lb indeed the cup of uffliffion may be called the cup offalvation. Now that is the way ya mult enter.Ufe. O come away, let us hear what ye fay to it. Are ye wil-iling to enter this way ? Think upon it. This is the way ye muftenter; and in our telling ofit, we may tremble to think upon this[generation, who will not dole with thefe (fo called) inconvcni-icnces, we have no fkili of peoples clofing with Chrilt, who will«ot clole with thefe. But oh, what fay ye unto us ? What is your{reply ? Is it not this, that neither death nor life, nor angels, norprincipalities, nor powers, nor things prefenc, nor things tr>jeome, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, fliall be ah •to feparate us from the love of God, which is in Chrilt Jcfys om1 f-ord ? Is this your faying ? Then come away, take him, take on(ais yoke; for his yoke is cify, and his burden light..I1T H E(THE AFTERNOONsE R M OIfaiah xxvi. 20. Come, my People, &c.THIS is the way that folk undo themfelve.-, and forfake theirown mercies; that which ou^ht to chafe them to God, chaiesthem out from him. All hypocritical convidions, only puts diemthe farther away from the phyfician; fo it is with judgment, whichfhould put folk to their duties, they are thereby put from it. Whefathe Lord forbilhes his glittering Iword of jultice, then it is todrive his own children unto his own hand, Come my people, crc*.Ye know the {all occalion how we divided thefe words; ye knotralfo, how that before we left the firlt head, we laid, it would bfcjrequifite to (how unto you, who it is that comes unto Chrilt, and]Who it is that comes not: But we told you that it would comemore fitly in the lecond head; yet, to make way for it, we pro¬ceeded forv/ard unto the third thing in the words. And now, havhig touched that a little, we return again, as we told you we pro-poled to do, and lhall, as the Lord will give, open the lecondhead further, declaring who are his people, to wit,Thefe, as we were laying, who have made a covenant with himby facrifice to he accepted only thro’ the facrifice of his fon, andwho facrifice away themlelves unto him. In a word, it is thelewho are righteous, and who live righteoully. Thele who arerighteous, are thefe who are fled into Chrilt for his righteoufnefs,and have gotten themfelves clothed therewith. But that ye maytho more clearly take up who thele are who come unto Chrilt; be^fore we give lome marks of them, and lome rules how to applythefe marks, we lhall firll declare who it is that comes not.Firlt, Thele come not unto Chrilt, who come not from all fin,Ezek. 18. 21. But if the wicked will turn from all his fins that hehath committed, and keep all my (tatutes, and doth that which islawful and right, he lhall lurely live, he (hali not die. Ye lee thecondition,it is if ye will return from all (in,both omiflion and com-miflion; from all lin, unto all duty; leaving all lin, and taking up* '• chriltian duty. Therefore remember, il ye entertain any onemol, Chat will keep Chrilt Out. Many lay of feme idol-fin, thatthey do not quit, as Lot fai'd of Zotir, it is a little one, thereforeJet me bruik it. But remember what David lays, If I tegard ini¬quity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me, Pf. l. 66. 18. Re¬member this, and deftroy not youriclves, ye who follow not grot'sfwearing, drinking or whoring, and the like, yet cleave untoytour petty minclu oaths, and your idle vain diicourie, and your -11 n k tThe Saints Duty in Evil Times. gightconverfation. O remember this, ye who have anyonepre-iominate, whbfe head ye clap; your right hand, and your righteye Sins mint he cut off, and plucked out, before ye can enter in-:o the kingdom of heaven : I lay, if ye entertain any predomi*late, it {peaks out this, that ye would as well entertain all fins,jf your inclinations were as bent upon them, and that ye do not;eave them, as they are hateful to God, but only, as they are notiib delightlbm, or hurtful unto you. O! take heed, except ye re¬bent and amend, ye lhall all likewile perifh. Remember this,/e moral civilians, who are not chargeable with grols profanity[n your private walk, yet have your hands imbrued in blood, andhave them defiled with pubhek land-lins, which procures land-udgnients; ye take a liberty to pay cefs, and fines, and tiends,:o Baal's, Prielts, and do many other things to Itrengthcn the e-oeniiesof our Lord, and condemn his caule, I fay, take heed toilmurfelvcs; except ye repent and amend, ye fhall all likewjieberifh. Remember this, ye who turn dot ro take up all chriltianduties with you; ye think it enough, if ye babble over two orihree words at night and at morn to youncive's, tho’you !et notap the worlhip of God in your families; and if ye do that, ye:hink that enough, tho’ ye neither put to your hand to »6t withi:he Lord, nor fympathize with his afflifted people, nor imbadyvourfelves in fociety with them, to cry for all the abominationsof the land. O take heed, except ye repent and amend, ye (hallall likewife perifh./ Secondly, Thefe come not unto Chriff, who, tho’ they may! come a great length not to be chargeable by man, neither with: omillion nor commiffion, yet reff there; all that w'ill not takei them to heaven. before his converfion, he reports of himielflJDAi/.jii,6. was, toucl ing the riglueoulnels which is in the Law,I blanielels. He was as trim a legalilf as the belt of you; but mark.I what he fays of himielf in the leventh, eight and niuth veries,| But wlm things were gain to me, thofe I counted lots for Chrilf:■ Yea, douhtlels, and I count all things but lots, for the excellen-Scy of the knowledge of Chrilt Jefus my Lord, for whom I haveIluffered the lots of all things; and do count them but dung, thatI may win Chriit, and he found in him, not having mine ownrighteoulnels, which is of the law, but that which is through thefaith of Chrilr, the righteoufnefs which is of God by faith. Thereis that ye mult only rcit on, and no where die, but upon thecompleat and inherent righteoulnefs of Jefus Chrilt; thereforetake heed how ye build.Thirdly, Thefe cojne not unto Jefus Chrilt, who feed them-lelrcs up in thatdeluding fancy, that they have not to much needof him as others have, by reatou of their -'.linking their iins t<abe but little Jins. O, fay Ionic, I am not like the proph me andwicked ; what then need 1 fear? O poor ibul, mind what the .\-poltle tells thce; Gal. iii. to. For in inch a cafe thou art under theB law,10The Saint's Duty in Evil Times*law, and as many as are of the works of the law, are under thecwrle, for it is written, Curled is every one that continueth noftin all things that are v ritten in the law, to do them. A penknifecan take away the Life as well as a broad fword : Indeed, I thinkthe caie of the wicked and ptofane is more hopeful than thy cafe,bec ufe they will be fooner gotten convinced of the neceflity of"repentance thin thou wilt.Fourthly Thefe come not unto Chrift, who, becaufe they meet■with favourable difpenfations, and great proofs ofthe Lord’s general providences, and thereupon conclude all is well with them.Think upon what David fays, Pfal. xvii. ia. From men whichare thy hand, O Lord, from men of the world, which have their 1portu ns in this life, and whofe belly thou fillelt with thy hid itreauire: they are full of children, and leave the reft of their fub- \Itance to their babes. None knoweth love or hatred by all that |is before him, Eccl. xi.Fifthly, Thefe come not to Chrilt, who think all is right withthem, becaufe they are not challenged in their conlcienccs. Omad fools, whole hearts are fealcd with obduration, the faddeltplace in all the fcripture holds forth your cafe, Hof. iv. 17. Ephra-^im is joined to his idols : Let him alone. When ye drop intohell, the fire thereof will loon burn up that thick fkin that isgrown upon your Confciences.Sixthly, Thele come not unto Chrill, who refl upon their ap¬prehended forrow for fin. O, fay they, I am not luch a fool asto think all is well, becaufe I want challenges, but becaufe Ihave them: Remember is/rH, remember Judas: your buildingupon your forrows and tears, is like a man that builds upon aflow-mofs.Seventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrifl, who fall off the com¬mon road of fin, unto duty, and reft there: Mind what our Lordlays of the conceity Pharifee, Luke xviii. 11, 12, 13, and 14.That tho’ he was not an extortioner, unjuft, nor an adulterer,’and Fafted twice a week, and pay’d tythes of all he poflelled, yethe went not down to his houfe fo juftified as the poor publicandid; yet lie will fay, I am far from fwearing, drinking, isc. andhuve hetaken myfelf to the fociety of the people of God ; and Iread, and pray, drc. therefore all is well. O poor fool, thy cafeis now worfe than ever. O we tremble to think upon the multi¬tude that prays themfelves into hell; This is David indeed,who kills his ten tl.oufands. What fhall I liken you to ? Ye arelike a man that digeth deep down, and calls out the old earth,bin brings new earth ofhis own mould, but goes not the lengthof the rock.Lightly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who even goes that1length as to allent to the fpiritual meaning ofthe Law, and redsthere. This is much indeed, this is a great length ; yea a great-j,er length than the mod part of you, who are hearing me tbisjdJay#IThe Saint's Duty in Evil Times. i.ly, have come unto, and yet they are far from them the kingdomf heaven. Obferve that paffage, Mark xii. 32. 33. Where. fcribe anlwered our Lord, and laid, To love the Lord with allhe heart, and with all the underltanding, and with all the foul,tnd with all the llrength, and to love his neighbour as himfelf, 's more than whole burnt offerings and facrifices. To whom ourJjLord replies, 34. verfe. Thou art not far from the kingdom of§G O D.Ninthly, Thefe come not unto Jefus Chrifl, who have com¬mon gifts, and rells there. O fay ye, I find a faculty of prayer,1 want not words enough, and gets them bravely let upon theijnns; I have great knowledge of the fcriptures, and am draightand not byalled in my judgment; and what need luch a man asI fear? O deluded fool, conlider what Paul fays, 1 Cw. xiii. 2.Tho’ I have the gift of prophefy, and underltand all myfteries,and all knowledge, and th®’I have all faith, fo that I could re-imove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. Nodoubt, Judas had much of this; God will give gifts unto perfonsrfor the behoof and advantage of others; but when he givesjgrace, it is ay for their own advantage; yea, the devil himlelf isjbetter gifted, and hath more knowledge than all you have. _! Tenthly, Thefecome not unto Chrift, who fuffer many things: materially for the truth, and have fbme feeming fruits thereof,land reft there; do not think that your fuffering your goods to:i!be (poiled, and yonrfelves to be call out of your habitation be¬fore ye comply with the enemy, is a ground, from which ye mayjoconclude all to be right: Nay, I tell you as the Apoftle fays, 1d/Cor. xiii. Tho’ ye (hould beftow all your goods too feed the poor,1 itho’ I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it pro¬fits me nothing : Yea, the fame Apoflle fuppofeth, Gal. iii. 4.i iTIiat there may he much fuffcring in vain ; have ye fuffered fb: many things in vain ? If it be yet in vain. There arc many of:ryou that are fuffering mattcrially for Chrift; materially, we fay,iand not formally; for hypocrites never wins to fincerity in theirIdoings and fufferings, nor to do them as to God ; and yet hel ! will get hell to fuffer in throughout all eternity ; yea, a man' when is credit his flraitly engaged, he may give his life for thecaufe, and yet get hell for his reward.Eleventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who have only a hif-torical and temporary faith, inftead offaving faith, tho’ ye fhouldbelieve all the truths in the Bible, yet that will not avail you, theevils believe and tremble; yea, tho’ ye fhould give your generalaflent to the way of falvation by Chrift, yet unlcfs ye receiveand embrace him, and reft upon him, all will be for nought:Look the cafe of this people; IJ'ai xlviii. 2. Who call them-lelves of the holy city, and ftay themfelves upon the God of {[-raid.; but what fays the Lord of them? Yet not in truth nor inrighteoulnefs; 0 take heed what yc are doing, and do not de¬li 2 ccive5.12 The Saint's Duty in Evil Times.ceive yonrlelvcs; for ye may win this length, as to be eonvln* >ced, that it is good to come unto Chriil and jthink ye have done (it, being blinded by your pridt^ and may lome way comfort Iyourfelves, as if ye had done it, in this your prefumptuoUs kdream, and yet really never have done it: Never really, have ubeen brought to deny your own Righteouinefs, and to receive [jChrilt, relying only upon him for attaing of life through his |, righteouinefs and latisfadion.Twelfthly, Thele come not unto Chrilt, who have only the tcommon operation of the fpirit, upon the affeftion within, andrelting there, concludes that all is well with them. We havealready fpoken ot the danger of relting upon apprehended lor*rosv for lin, fo there may be much alfo of the Hallies ol joy, ten-derncls, and heart-meltings, which hypocrites may have atfome times by another. Conlider thefe who were John's hear¬ers, John v. 3 j. Who.for a fealbn rejoycedin his light; O! be¬ware cfgofpel hypocrilies, take not ilathes for converlion. Ifit could be determined how great length hypocrites may come,we think it would lilt here. O what (hall we fay of it! do whatthey will, and come as great a length as they can, they nevercome unto Chrilt, who are not fully denied to themfelves, andpof lively reft only upon jelus Chrilt, for jultification and fanc-tiheation. True faith bath two voices. Firlt, it calls andcrys, O finner, lean not to thylelf, reti not there. Secondly,O (inner, relt on fefus Chrilt, and lean unto himtelf.Ule. Now, O believers, learch and try yourlelves, fet aboutit earneitly, this is your work, and it will not oe done (lumber¬ing and lleeping; There are many of you here the day, whoare not come the length of fome of thefe Heps, which we havenamed: Yea, ye may come thro’ them all every one,and if ye gonot further, ye will never win to Chrilt: And in his name I tellyou, except your righteoufnets exceed the feribes and phari- jfees, ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven.Ye know, we gave you fome hints of thefe who are the Lord’s Ipeople, viz. Thele who have come unto Chrilt, and are maderighteous, and live righteoufty: And for the more clearing ofit, we now declare who thefe are, who have come unto him ; bygiving ;ome marks and evidences how the fame may be known.M e ai e not now (peaking of being in Chrilt, as a creature bycreation, and prelervation, nor as a member externally, but asa mcm' ' . internally and effectually ; but ye will fay, How isthat f Anl. Ry the (hiCt union and communion betwixt Chriftand tne chrilt; ins, which is from the ItriCtnels of the bond ; viz*his word and fpirit on his pai t, and faith and love on their part. tNow, we lay, haw will that be known ? well, we will give youthele marks; therefore try yourlelves. For,‘ Firlt,The Saint's Duty in Evil Times.Firfl, If ye be come toChrift,then ye will find in yon a hatredof all lin naturally, and a delire to all good, tho’ often ye mayfail in the performance, Rom. vii. \5.Raul fays, That which Ido, I allow not, for what I would, that I do not, but what Ihate, that I do, 1 John iii. 6. VVhofoever abideth in him finnethnot; to wit, fitlt, purpofedly, fecondly, willingly, thirdly, af-fetfionately, fourthly, not unto death: For the Lord’s peoplehave, (1.) Grief. (2.) Care to recover. (3.) Fear to fin. O !can ye run on in fin, without returning and care of repentance;if it be fo, ye are not in this living root.Secondly, If ye come unto Chrilt, then ye will find this inyon, a right and high efteem of the Lord‘s mercy, he and hisfalvation will be only precious in your eyes. Blelfed is he whofetranfgreflion is forgiven, whole fin is covered, P/al. xkxii. 1.That will be your thoughts.Thirdly, If ye be come unto Chrift, ye will find this in you,a love unto the way of holinefs as well as happineis itfelf: Yea,your heart will be fb drawn after that noble device of falvati¬on, feeing all the.glorious attributes of Godfofliining therein,that ye would in no ways be content to go to heaven anotherI way, than that glorious way, tho’ it could be had, and this isall the Load requires of you, only a pleafing the device. Thisis the brazen ferpent, which yc mult look unto for healing. O!come away.Fourthly, If ye be come unto Chrifl, then ye will find this in; 3'ou, an adting upon God, as he adts upon you : Hath he calledyou ? then yc will call upon him; hath hejultilied you? then1, ye will juffify him.Fifthly, If ye be come unto Chrilt, then ye will find this in1 j you, a felf-denial, and a daily taking up thecrofs, againftyour<1 own inclinations, the dodtrine and pradtice of mortification, Sca cutting yourfelf fliort of carnal delights will be delired byyou.Sixthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye will be fubjedl tohim willingly, and yield fweetly unto the fwaying of his feep-ter in your foul.^Seventhly, If yc be come unto Chrift, then ye.are fubjedt untohim univerfally in all his commands.Eightly, If ye be come unto Chrilt, then ye are fubjedt untohim iincerely in all things, feeking his glory.Ninthly, If ye become unto Chrift, then ye are fubjedt unto,1 him conltmtly, obeying lym without wearying.Tenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then his word ahidctbin you, 1 John ii. 14. It that which ye have heard from the be¬ginning remain in you, ye (hall continue in the Son and in theFather; it mud abide in you, fb as your mind underdands it,your hearts affedt it. O how have that which ye have read antiheard remained ? Few, few, in Ciuilt.Eleventhly,*'4 Saint's Duty hi evil Times.Eleventhly, If ye be come unto Chrift, ye will find his fpiritleading you unto all truth, Jo/ju xvi. 13.. Teaching ti.ee andleading thee unto, and confirming in duty; but do not miltake,we mean no enthufiaftical ipirit, but his v;ord and ipint whichhe hath enjoined, Ifai. lix. 21. My fpirit which is upon thee,and my words which I have put in thy mouth, (hull not depart.Twelfthly, If ye be come unto Chi ilt, then ye will find his .fpirit convincing you of fin.Thirteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrilt, then ye will find hisfpirit ruling and commanding you, calling down all things ex¬alted againll Chrilt’s kingdom.Fourteenthly, If ye become unto Chrilt, then ye will find hisfpirit in you by lupplicanon, leading unto lenle oflin, andap-prehenlion of the neceflity of mercy, widch makes fervency,letting the loul lee God only appealed in Chrilt, and lealeth thetruth of God’s promiles and records.Fifteenthly, It ye be come unto ChriW, then ye may find faithin you, that will be your Itay in ail ellates, actions, temptati¬ons, and afHidtions: This ts hard to find out, yet it may befound out, if ye have a defire for it, ye may have it.Sixteenthly, If ye come unto Chrilt, then ye will find an ad¬mirable change in you, a new Ipirit without guile, a new judge¬ment, new delires, new affections, love, hatred, lorrow, joy,new lenfes, eyes, fmelling, ears, tafte, feeling.iTfe. Now find ye thele, or any of thcfe marks really in you,then doubt no more, misbelieve no more, all is fure, ye arccome unto Chrift, and feeing.ye are come unto him, prefs ayfor more and more of his likenels, for a progrefs in fandtifica-tion. Remember, 1 John ii. 6. He that faith he abideth in him,ought himfelf alfoto walk even as he walked. And it leads usunto the third thing in the opening up oftpis point, to wit, todeclare who are his people; they, as we Were faying, who arerighteous, and live fighteoufly. Now thele who are righteous,are thefe who have lied unto Chrilt, and they indeed live righ-teoufiy. Yet to make it more clear, we fhall in Ihort tell you,who they are who live righteoully: Theie, to wit, in a word,who walk as he walked.Omnia no; Chrijii vita docere potcjl.Firft, They live rightebufly, beginning ail things with God,referring all things to God. Secondly, They do all things by Ithewarrandjof the word, contemning their own wills, that they Imight do the Lord’s: Not my will, but thy will be done; tliejrmult lofe their Ute, before they lole their obedience. Thirdly,They walk holily, be ye holy, as 1 am holy. John iii. 3. Eve¬ry man that hath this hope in him, purifietli himlelf even as heis pure. Fourthly, They walk fruitfully, they go about doinggood; O lad ! not only the unfruitful walking of this genera- ittion, but even the 1'tumbling that they are. Fifthly, they walk (juft- 1-2.The Saint's Duty in evil Times. * 5juftly, not wronging any. Thefe are they who live righteoufly,who walk lb as Chrilt walked. O ! how few righteous liversare among you, and thele only are his people, righteous per-fons, righteous livers, and it is thefe whom the Lord hath cham-j hers for.Now lixthly, We proceed to the rules how to apply thefe evi¬dences. Firft, Tho’ ye find them not all, yet if ye find one ormoeof them really, then comfort yourfelves. Secondly, If yefind not what formerly ye have found, labour more to renew thefame than to leek alight of the old. Thirdly, Do not try your-felves in the hour of temptation. Fourthly, When ye find marksand evidences, do not reft upon them, for tbo‘ ye have them,they may (bon be gone. Fifthly, Do not purfue lb much to la-tisfy your (enle for the prefent,as to have a folid and well groun¬ded allurance for tire Time to come. Sixthly, Be not fo delirousto know what yc are, as what ye fhould do. Spend not yourtime in queftioning your fntr, as ye do, but ule the means ofreal union and communion with Chrift: This is the Ihorteft andfureltway. Seventhly, Judge not yourlelves by the mcalureof your graces, but by the liccerity of them. Eigluhly, Com¬pare not yourlelves too much to th« faints, but judge yourfelvesI by the word.Ninthly, When there is a ferious wreftling againft corrupti¬on, tho’ not meeting with any lenlihle vidlory, yec caft not a-way your hope. Paul tells you, Rom. vii. how far a child ofI' Cod may beenllrved by a body oflin.Tenthly, Remember ye have to do with God in a covenant of1 grace. Now, what more fliall we lay ? We muft end as we be¬gun. O! come away, come away to Chrift, this Prince of de¬lights, come, and enter into thele chambers. Motive. Firft,Come away and enter, then your condition will be honourablewith Chrift. Secondly, Comfortable. All your debts are paid.Thirdly, Rich. All that Chrift hath, grace and goodnels is allthine. Fourthly, Fruitful. He purgeth his branches. Fifthly,Safe. He takes all your quarrels upon him, your head will ay beabove the water. Sixthly, It is the only Rate of perfection, whichis in him, and derived to us. Seventhly, Then all the promilesare yours. Eighthly, It is a iure Rate, in this life ye havei llrength againlt temptations; my grace is fufficient tor you.Ninthly, In death, slfurance. 1 hey that lleep in Chrift perilh1 not. Tenthly, in the day of judgment, boldnefs: O come a-’ way, the chambers are every way plealant, and every way lafe,come away, the indignation fliall not overtake you.The Lord is coming down with an univerfal deluge of wrath,upon the generality: Come away, and yc fliall be bid. O 1 heis willing, he is willing, he would not have lent this melfage toyou the day, if he had not been willing : And now, when ye are•, seeping a faft day unto the Lord, who hath given you this call,prayI<The Saint's Duty in evil Times.pray that he would help you rightly to improve it; I fay, 0 im¬prove it rightly, by youranfwering it.But ye will lay. How (hall we improve it? A nfwer, firft, Im¬prove it, by feeing that it is only ol the Lord’s free mercy that hehath given it, Ezek. xxxvi. 22. I do not this for your lakes, Olhoule of Ifrael, but for my holy name’s lake.Secondly, Improve it, by being thereby the more (tirred up to jjyour duty, Plal. cxvi. Becaufc he hath inclined his ear unto me, jtherefore will l call upon him as long as I live. Hath he heard 1your prayers in this? Then be more in prayer, and be more jlingle in prayer, and all other duties, than ever heretofore.Thirdly, Improve it by loving the Lord himlelf, who hathgranted you it, Plal. cxvi. I love the Lord,becaulc he hath heard jmy voice and luppliotion.Fourthly, Improve it, by feparating yourfelves more from the jabominations of the titjje, by making clean hearts and clean IJhands, Pfal. vi. 8. Depart from me yc workers ofini<iuity, the 1Lord hath heard the voice of my luppiication.Fifthly, Improve it, by having a high and becoming efteem I,ofthe ordinances, yet keeping it in its own room, and not reft- Iing upon it, but feeking unto the Lord himfelf, Amos 5.4. Seek Iye nie, and ye (hall live, but feek not to Bethel.Sixthly, Improve it,by anfwering his call therein, and let not IJthe Lord have it to fay of you, that after long and many ref’u- ||fals, Yet I came and ftretched forth my wings, and would have |gathersd you, as a hen gathereth her chickens, but ye would Inot. O! let him not have that to fay : Come away, come away, I* enter into y«ur chambers ana (hut your«cioors about you, and |hide yourfelves as it were for a little moment, until the indig¬nation be over-paft. |jF I N / S.\