RIGHT and EQUALITY, CONSTITUTION,* ORGANIZATION, and KINGS,EXPLAINED;o R,ONE PENNYWORTH OF TRUTH, ‘a 7IN AN INGKNJOUSLETTERFROMnH 0 MAI S B U L LI « TO HISBrother John.To 'which are added,! ■ ;THE TEN COMMANDMENTSI.S THEY ARE NOW ADOPTED IN FRANCE.ALSO,KING, LIBERTY, and LAWS,A NEW SONG.DUMFRIES: PRINTED AND SOLD BY'CUTHBERT M‘LACHLAN,-*One Pennyworth of Truth, &c.D;ar Brother,*r-'B_^HERE has always been fuch a good underftandiB between us, that you and I can Ipeak our mii;--SL freely to one another. Our Father, you know,ways maintained the character of a blunt, honelt, lenfilman; and our mother was as good a fort of woman as evlived. They gave us the belt teaching they could affojand tile neighbours have never counted us fools. But l’o(people are taking great pains to make us fo, and rogiinto the bargain. They have tried their fldll uponand fo they will upon you ; but I write you this lentgive you warning, that you may look to yourfelf. Ffee ms, John, you and I are now to learn every thing ftthofe conceited monkies, the French. Nobody knows atiling now but they, and fome Englifhmcn at home, whate this country as bad as the French do. With talkiabout Right and Equality, and ConlHtution, and Orgaaation, and fuch like, they made my head turn round; II fee now pretty well what they mean.They begin with telling us all mankind an equal:that’s a lie, John ■, for the children are not equal tomother ; nor the motherto.the father; unlefs where thjs petticoat government; and fuch families newer'go on w«the children are often fpoiled, and the hufband brough'a jail. But I lay people are not equal. The clerk isequal to the parton , the footman is not equal to the Iq'Rthe thief at the bar is not equal to the judge npon the benIf it were as they fay, then,the ■clerk .-might get up intopulpit—the footman might lit at the top of the table—thief might take his place upon the bench and try,judge—and the coachman might get into the coach and >his mailer on the box ; who, net knowing how to drTis ten to one but he overturns him, Pretty workihouM have with their equality i but let us have pansand go on with them*( ? ) 71 ,You and I were taught that God governs the world.. tUHlat nobody has any power in it but, inch as he gives them ; ^ere is no power but oj God : and pur Saviour allowed it'en in Pontius Pilate, the Roman Judge. But you at e t<> *dieye now, out of the brei’.ch Bible, that all power is ole people, that is, of you and I, Thomas and joint Bull. .ut if the people in any great national queltion ol dilhcul-, which is very poffible, iliould be divided intt> two tlives, who are the people then, John ? 1 hey that layild of a iword tirlt, and get to be ItrongcB, will alwaysill themfelves the peopld, and the relt mult go to betnged, or lole their heads, ll you and I Ihottld quarreltout our rights, and there were no law above us, thenicre’s People "Thomas agatnll People Jobss, and we innftttle it by a civil war ; for when there’s no law, there stthing left but the Iword or the halter to lettle all dii* :rences : fo I mult cut your tin oat or you mult cut mine,hat is what always comes of the power ot the people, asis now in France ; where all queltions have been carriedi cutting off heads, and hanging people upon lamp irons >id then, you know, they that are hanged can give nojtc, and they that are left are all of a mind. But#iwever, they are as far off from being fettled now asiey were lour years ago ; and one of their new Kingsfylarat) laid they mult haye two huszdred asid eighty thou-ssd snore heads opf before they Ihould be right.Mow for thpir wife notions about Goyernsnent. As all>wer is in the people, they faj there can be no lawfulovernmeut but what the people make. When ail poweri taken from thofe who are now entitled to it by law, andit into the hands of the mob armed with pikes and dag-Jrs, that’s a Confutation, John. Then out of this, ttieid mob raifes what they call Organs and iTtnblions, andakesa Government; but they have been as it is in Francer four years, and though they have worked very hardmetimes, they have hardly got to the beginning yet.~nd now have you not fenfe enough to fee what a huentrivance this is for plundering every gentleman of hial operty, his hoofe, his land, his goods, and his money,der a pretence that every thing belongs to the Nation^ /\nd it holds as well, or better, again!): churches, than* private houfes. They tell you farther, that no ml; it as a right to any thing but what he earns khnf'df; foyou and I, John and Thomas Bull, worked ever fo harand leave 'what we have to bring up our children in tl| world, they will have no right to it bee a fife they did mearn it themtelvex. This' notion cuts off .ail right of inj heritance, wliich is the molt lacred upon earth, and witllout which it would not he worth while either^to work cto live ; lor the Nation may meet, make a new Govei rnient, and take it all away at a Itroke. I’ll tell you a liery.: Some while ago a highwayman met with his deatupon the road lor demanding a gentleman’s money : ‘ Ths* fellow',’ (litid a wag) 4 was a good Patriot; who, fuj* poling the gentleman might have more money in *h"i* pocket than he had earned, difeovered that it was th* property ol the nation : lb, making hhufelf the nation* ke only demanded his own property. Hut the gentle* man 'being rather too quick for him, lliot the Nath* through the head, arid fpoiled the new principles of Gor verritnent.’ This was bad luck : that man might haylived to have given us a continuation of Thomas Pain.-,And now, John, I’ll tell thee plainly, the new nation cGovernment from the mob, is the foolifhelf, as well as tlrf.soli: ralcally, that ever entered into the world : and tlivery people, that have railed theinfelves to power anplunder by it, will be fools enough to deny it. They wibe telling us prefently how God has fought for the trendagain!! the Pruflians and Auftrians j while they don’believo there’s a God in the World.Let us hear next what they have to fay about Kinv«'We are Jhorily to have no more of them, neither beni’inor above, Tons Pain having bfeen heard to declare, thdwhen he had made revolutions againll the Kings upo:earth, he would try his hand at a Revolution in HeavenYou fee, John, who they are that talk againll Kingsthey never fail to talk again!!: God Almighty ; and in fuelwords as the devils of hell dare not utter ! When the’preterifhto argue with us. they tell us, all Kings are bad•hat God never made a King : and that all Kings are ver( * )ixpcnlive. But Ujat all Kings are bad cannot be true >•etaufeGod himfelf is one of tliem : he calls himfdf King,/ Kings ; which not only Ihews us he is a King, but thate has other Ki/igss under him : he is never called King ofRepublics. The ,1'ci ipture calls Kings the Lord's anointed :at who ever heard of an anointed republic l There are',ovv'. Brother John, many thoulands of Frenchmen, who(ave taken to. themfdves that power which belonged toMieir King: where lhall we get oil enough to anoint themj 11 ? And what, would they be when we had done ? .Theywould not be the Lord’s anointed;' they would’be theiho.!’ s anointed : and there is little doubt but that, proudi s they are at preietit, fomebody will anoint thejn well11 lait.That God never made a King is a great lie ; when wei ear him telling us in his own words—Yet have I fet myying upon my holy Hill of Zion ! Did not our Saviour faye was King oj the Jevss ; and was not he crucified for* lYing ■ The Jews who crucified Irina have never had» King of their own from that day to this: not becaufedrey diflike a King, but becaufe they are not good enoughj j have one. They are the only nation upon earth that; ver were or ev er will be in a Hate of equality : and it ‘i as been a great and .mighty work of God to make them fo.i ip,power can make men equal, but that which make men■mgs. And what ffunrid we get by it ? We Ihould be julti mere the Jews are ; a proverb to all nations ; a monu*\iei^ o! c^ie Divine wrath ; and a difgrace to the world.\ Kings are very expenfwe things, laid the Prelbyterian atbriningham, when they were going to make their' "ench Revolution dinner.i That may be true, Brother John ; but if Jfcgs keep uso.n Inch iniferies as the want of a King has produced ins ranee, they deferve to be well maintained, let them be■ 'ho the'y will. When there is no King, then every man■oes that which is right in his own eyes; and, mind.om, not in the eyes ol any body elfe : and you may feei your Bible, how people were given up to Sodomy and<'Td lixty-five thouland of them pfelentlypit in battle, aecaufe there was nobody at that time fet■( 6 ))!over them. Look about you, like a man of fenfe, and yo,wiil foon feettliat bad ittbjedts coll more money than goo| Kings- Our national debt, for which we are now payinfuch heavy taxes, was doubled by the troubles in AmericaDifFenter*all brought upon us from the beginning by the' there and here. Did not Dr Price write for them i Andid not,the Birmingham Dr, (late one of the King’s-ele*of France) encourage them, and write mob principles fGovernment, to jurtify them ? Yet thefe people wbbrought our burdens upou us, are they that rail mod at thexpenfivenefs of our Government, and ufe it as ahandleftovei turning it: juft like the devil, who drives men intfin, and then gets them damned for jt if he can : and thelie is pleafed, becaufe he delights to be the author «Miferji: that is Iris greafne/i, ; and fome jteople have rnotion of any other : fo they maflacre poor Priefts ; reand plunder their country and their church ; put Kinjand Queens in prifon, try them as they pleale, and then bthead them; and then fmg Calraior joy that Hell is broke toofiI have Nothing more to fay, (till my next Letter) bithat tine Government, which is raoft wicked, be the forof it what it will, is generally the weakeft in itfelf, anathe moft expenftve to the people : and fo, after all tlujcan be faid, Hone fly is the bejl policy, and the honejl mistheJohn ;heft fubjett.and iarewel.Keep this in your mind. BrothFrom your loving Brother, "THOMAS B U L 1P. S. Perhaps they may tell thee, John, that thou hanothing to lofe, and that any change may be to thy a<vantage; but thou halt a Body and a Sou/: and if the bod• goes to the gallows, and thy foul to the devil, won’t thi a Jo/s, Jflgfi lt The TEN COMMANDMENTS, as they are noadopted in France, tranfiated from the French.I* Gods we’ll have, like fools of old;-*■ No Deity we’ll ferve but Gold,2. Saints images yon may purloin,Anri melt them info ready coin.C 7 ) J ^3. God’s name you Ihall no more adore—For all abav: us we abhor.4. No more on Sunday read or pray,R-eligion now is done away.5. No more regard what parents fay.Each child is free to take his way.6. No more are ye forbid to kill.Cut throat and murder whom ye will.<7. The crime aduitry we difovvn.And all mens wives ufe as our own.S. Take every thing we meet by'chance,Thieving’s no more forbid in France,9. Fali'e witnefs bear in any thing.That can injure a Lord or King.10. Covet and feize whate’er you fee,French Liberty makes all men free.KING, LIBERTY, and LAWS; oit,French Liberty & Tom Pain in the Suds.d NEW SONG. (Never before printed.)rP\xne——~Hearts of Oeik.JE Britons fo brave, fo bold, and fo Iree,Come lend your attention and liilen to me ;: 1 lhew you molt clearly the plots that are laid,j Ileal all your comforts—your bleflings invade :Chorus But to join in the caufeOf King, Liberty, and Laws,Ye always are ready.And Heady, boys. Heady,To defend our Old England, huzza ! boys, huzza !he French molt perfidious we ever have found.Id England they hate, and would fain pull her down ,- ur glory they envy—our happinefs too,nd would change our old gold for their tinfel fo new :But we-ll Ihew in the caufe, &c,fraid that the Lion of Old England Ihould wake,‘hey try for to Heal that they dare not to take ;■ h«y pay wicked men to leduce you with lies,AhCity rob yau fecurely, throw duK in ytur.eyes:But they’ll find in the *aufe; &c.‘ • • 7~:Ai- .( .* >°Ycj Religion or Laws the vile Jacobins own,'VTheir God they deny-^-their King they’ve pull'd down jtt ^To gain their own ends the people they cheat,flThen leave them too not a morl’el to eat!, ^ Then let us in the caufe,t'Their trade i<! all o-ene—there is none HOW to buy.gone-| ^rhe rich are all banilh’d—the poor left to die !‘'No corn in their markets—no coin in their Hates;^No Ihips in their ports-^no faith in their gates!k But they’ll find in the caufe,eBht look ye, bold Britons, around you and fee,°,The contrail how great—ye are happy and free ;''Here Peace fpreads her olive, and Plenty her Hore,J'And Jullice alike guards the rich and the poor:T * Then Ihew in the caufenOur commerce is great—tnanufacTrers well paid,aThe world is our mart, fo extenlive our trade ;aAll, all have employment—the idle alone^Have .caufe of complaint—but the fault is their own :| V Then firm in the caufe,t^Our nobles for. Liberty freely will bleed,c:Since they planted her firll in the fair Runoymead ;’^Moftfacred onr gentry her boughs will fufiain,5;From the blows of vile France, or their engine Tom Pat13 ‘ Then firm to the caufe,J'Our foldiers are loyal, brave, honefl and true,And our faiiors unmateh’d Ihould ye fearch the world th.The poor when indullrious, have plenty and eafe,n(And chaiicy llielters old age and difeafe :v; Then firm to the caufe,S‘Great George is our Father, Proteiftof, and Friend,^And firmly our rights and his own will defend ;“jThen uniting-our hearts and our voices we’ll ling,1 And pray for long life and long reign to our KING 1And Haunch to the caitfe.Of King, Liberty, and Laws,Be ever moll .Heady,And ready, boys, ready, jTo defend our Old England, huzza 1 boys, ’‘‘iaFINIS.