A JPERSWASIVETo frequentCOMMUNION-BvY'Jobn'Tillotfon, "'D. D_ A 0PerfvvafiveTo frequentCOMMVNION.i Cor ii. 26, 27, 28.Forts eft as ft eat this bread) and drink thincuf) je do jbew the Lord's death till hecometWherefore tvhofoever full eat this bread, anddrink this cup ef the Lord unworthily, isguilty of the body and blond of the Lord.Sntlet a man examine himfelf^and jo let himeat of that bread, and drink of that cup.defign in this Argument is, fromthe confideration of the Nicurc ofthis Sacrament of the Lord'} Supper,and of the perpetual Ufe of it 10 theend of tke world, to awaken men toa fenfe of their Duty, and the greatobligation which lyes upon them tothe more frequent receiving of it.And there is the greater need tomake men fenfible of their duty lathis particular, becajife’'A 2t 4 )in this laft Age by the unwarry difcourfcs of fome, con¬cerning the nature'of this Sacrament, and the danger ofreceiving it unworthily, fuch doubts and fears have beenraifed in the minds of men as utterly to deterr many, andJn a great meaiure to difeourage almoft the generality of'tliriftians from the ufeof it ; to the great prejudice anddanger of mens foul*, and the vifible abatement of pietyby the grofs neglcft of fo excellent a means of our grouthand improvment in it; and to the mighty fcandal of ourReligion, by the general difufe and contempt of fo plainand folemn an Inftltution of our bleffcd Lord andSaviour.Therefore I (hat take occasion as briefly and clearlyat I can toitreatof thefe Fo*r points.Ffrjf, Of the Ptrpituitj of this Inflitation ; this theApoljle fignifies when he faith, thatiCor. li. bl tatirg this brttd, *nd drinking thiscup , Ti t do (b(v> the Lord's deitb tillhe come.Secondly, Of the Oiligotiodthii ^cs upon all Chrifti-ans to a frequent obfervmce of this Inhitution; this isSignified in thar expreifion of the Apoflle, ts often is yelot this bread, and drinktbis cap; Whichexpreflion con-fidcred and compared together with the pradjee of thePrimitive Church, does imply ati obligation Upon Chri-iliansto the frequent receiving of this Sacrameni .Thirdly, I flial endeavour to fatisfie the Ob}e/t(nis andScruples, which have b'S^n raifed In the'mlndsof men,and particularly of many devout and finccre Chriftians,to their great difcouragemtnt frond their receiving thisSacrament, at leaf! lo frequently as they ought: Which;Objeftions are chiefly grounded upon what the Apo(lfe|fays, Wherefirewhofotver (htl eat this bread, anddrinkthis\cup of the Lord unworthily, is guilty of the body and blood ofthe Lord; and doth eat and drink damnation to kimftlf. fFourthly, What Preparation of our felves is neceffary inorder to our worthy receiviag of this Sacrament: whichwill give me occafion to explain the Apolile's meaning inthefe words, Ver. 2S« Su; let a mttnextmUt bimftlf, and j_____  /j|ft lit bin tat »/ that btaiy and drink of that cup.I. For the Perpetuity of this InHitution, implyed inthofe words. For as of tin as ye eat this bread, anddrinkthiscup, ft do [hew forth the Lord's dtat» till be come; or the^Words may be read imperatively,, and by way of precept,| Sbcjv ye forth the Lord's death till be come. In the threeverfes immediatly .before, the Apoflle particularly de¬clares the I nftmrion of this Sacrament, with the mannerand circumftances of it, as hie had receircd it,not only bythe hands of the Apoffles, bur, atthe Words feem ratherto intimate,by immediate Revelation from our Lord him-(c\l,Vct.2i.For I have received of the Lord that which 1 alfo' delivered unto you ; that the Lord Jefas in the fame nightchat he was betraytdjook bread,and when he had given thankshe brake ihand [aid,take,eat, this is my body which is broke*for you i this d» in remembrance of me. After the fame man-' ntr alfo he took the cup when he had fupptd, faying, this cup,| is the new Tift amrtt in my blond: this do as often as ye (halj| drink it in remembrance of me. So that the Inftitution is inthefe Words, ihis do in remembrance of me. In which1 words our Lord cotumands his Difciples after his Death,to repeat thefe occafioos.of taking and breaking and eatingthe Bread, and of drinking nf the cup, by way of folemtiCommemoration of Him. Now whether this was to bedone by them once only, or ofrner; and whether by theDifciples only, during their lives, or by all Chriftians af¬terwards In all fucceflive Ages of the Church, is not focertain, merely from the forre of thefe words, Do this inremimbranfe of me : P.ut what the Apoftle adds, putsthe matter out of all doubt, that the Inflitution of this Sa¬crament was intended, nor only for the ApofHes, and forthat Age, but for all Chriftians, and for ajl Ages of theChrjflian Church ; Far as often as ye eat this bread, anddrink this cup , ye do/hew the Lord's death till he come ;that is, until dfc time ot his fecond comiog, which will heat the end of the World. So that this Sacrament was defig-ned to He a Handing Commemoration of the Death andand Palfionof our Lord rill he fhould come to Judge¬ment j and confcquently the Ooligatioa that lyes upon• A Chri-COChriftiansto the obfervation o{ it is perpetual, and ftia!never ceafe to the end of the World.So that it is a vain conceit and mcer dream of the En-thufiafts, concerning the fecHlm fpiritus ftntti, the Ageand difpenfation of the holy 6hoft, when, as they fup-pofe, all humane teaching fhal ceafe, and all external Or¬dinances and Inftitutions tn Religion (hal yanifh, and theredial be no further ufe of them: Whereash is very plainfrom the New Teflament,that Prayer,and outward Teach¬ing, and the ufe of the two Sacraments, were intendedto continue among Chrlftians in all Ages. As for Prayer,(befides our natural obligation to this duty, if there wereno revealed Religion) we are by our Saviour particu¬larly exhorted to Watch and Pray, with regard to theday of Judgment, and in confideration of the uncertaintyof the time when it fhal be: And' therefore this will al- iways be a Duty incumbent uponChriftians till the day ofJudgment, becaule it is preferibed as one of the beft waysof preparation for it. That Outrvtrd Inching likewifeand Baprifm were Intended to be perpetual, is no lefs plain,becaufe Chrift hath expreliy promifed to be with theTeachers of his Church in the ufe of thefe Ordinances tothe end of the World. (Matth. 28. 19, 20. Go and Dif-ciple all Nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Fa¬ther,and of the Son, and of the holy Ghoft: and lo, lamwith you always to the end of the World.) Not only to theend of that particular Age, but to the end of the Gofpel-Age, and the confummation of all Ages, asthephrafeclearly imports, And it is as plain from this Text, thattheStcrtment of the Ism's Supper was intended for a perpetual ;Inftitution in the Chriliian Church,till the fecond coming ,ofChrifi, vi^. his coming to judgment : Becaule Sf. PtuLtells us, that by thefe SacramemalSigns the Death ofChrift is to be reprefenred, and commemorated till hecome. Da tbs in remembrance of me, jtr as oft as je eatthis Bread,ytnd drin^this Cup, ye do (hew the Lord's Deathtill become.And if this be the End and life of this Sacramenfj to jbe a folemn remembrance of the .Death and Sufferings ofV onr(7)our Lotd, during his abfcrce from ui; that is, till hiscoming to Judgement, then this Sacrament will never beout of date till the fecond coming of our Lord. Thecon.fideration whereof fhould mightily ftrengthen and en¬courage our Faith, in the hope of Eternal Life, (o oftenas we pertakc of this Sacrament * ftnee our Lord hathleft it to us-as a memorial of hiti)fdf till he come, to tranf-lase Ids Church into Heaven, and as a fure pledge that hewill come again at the end of the World, and invert us inthat Glory, which he Is now gone before to prepare forus. So that as pften as we approach the Table of the Lord,we fhould comfort our felve* with the thoughts of thatbleffed time, when we Hull eat and drink with him in his.Kingdom, and dull be admitted to the great Feafl of theLamb, and to eternal Communion with God, the Judge ofall, and with our bleffed and glorified Redeemer, and theholy Angels, and the Spirits of Jufi men made perfect.And the fame confideration fhould likewife m ke us a-fraid to’ receive this Sacrament unworthily, without duePreparation for ir, and without worthy tffeffsof it uponcur Hearts and Lives. Becaufe of that dreadfull fentence.of condemnation, which at the fecond coming of curLord dial! be part upon thofc, who by the profanarjon of. this-folemn/nftitutjon trample under foot the Son cf^God, 'and contemn the bloud ofrhe Covenant ; that Covenantof Grace and Mercy, which God hath ratified with Man¬kind by the Bloud ofhls Son. The Aportle tells us, that •hi that tittth and drinlftth /tnwonhilj , is eniltj of thebody and bloud of the Lord, and eatith and drin^etb dam¬nation to himfelf. This indeed is fpoken of temporal Judg¬ment ( as I fhall fhew in the latter part of this Difcourfe .)but the Aportle Likewife fuppofe'th, that if thde temporalJudgments had not their effeft, to bring men to repentance,but they ftill perfifted in the profanation of this holy Sa¬crament, they fhould at laft be condemned with the tforld.For as he that pirtaketh worthily of this Sacrament, cqn-. firms his interert in rhe promises of the Gofpel, and hisTitle to eternal life; fo he that receive* this Sacrament un-j jwonhlly, that is, without due reverence, and without fruitsmeet(8 )meet for it on the contrary, coottnan ro live in (inwhllft he commemorats the death of Chrtft, who gave him,felf for us, that he might redeem us from ail iniquity, th»*man aggravatsand feals his own damnatiqn, becaufe he isguilty of the body and bloud of Chrift, not only by thecontcmptofit, but by renewing in (ome fort the caufe ofhis fufferings, and as it were crucifiling to himfrljtfrtlh tbiLord o] Lifi and glorj, and putting him to *n open (home. Andwhen the great judge ofthe Wotld (hall appear, andpafsfinal fentence upon «tn, fuch obftinate and impenitentWretches as could not be wrought- upon, by the remem¬brance of the deareft love of their dying Lord, nor be en¬gaged to leave their fins by all the tyesand obligations ofthis holy Sacramenr, (hall have their portion with ?iUttand Judts, with the chief Priefts and Soxldien, who werethe betrayers and raurthei'ers oftheLord of life and glory;and (hall be dealt withal! as thofc who are in (omefort,guiltyof the body and bloud of the Lord. Which (evere threat-nine ought not to difeourage men from the Sacrament, butto deterr all thole from their fins, who thin!? of engagingthcmfclves to God by fo folemn and holy a Covenant. It isby no means a fufficlenc reafon to make men to fly from theSacrament, but certainly one of the moft powerfull argu¬ments in the world, to make men forfake their fins ; as Ifhall fhew more fully in the third head of this Dif-courfe.11. The Obligation tijat lyes upon all Chriftians to thefrequent obfervanceand praftice ofthis Inftirution. Forthough it be not neccflarily implyed in thefe words, as ofcas ye tit this breid and drin^ this cup ; jet if we comparethefe words of the Apofile with the mage and praftice ofChriftians at that time, which was to communicate in thisholy Sacramenr, fo often as they folenanly met togetherto worfliip Sod, they plainly fuppofe and recommend tous the frequent ufeof this Sacrament, or rather imply anobligation upon Chriftians to embrace all opportunities ofreceiving it. For the fenfc and meaning of any Law or Jn-ftitutionis beft underftoed by the general praftife, whichfollows immediatly upon it.(») ^And to convince men of their obligation hereunto, andto engage them to a fuitable practice, I ftiall now endea-vour with all plainnefs and force of perfwafion I can : Andfo much the more, becaufe thenegleft of it among Chrilti*ans is grown fa general, and a great many perfons from afitperftitious awe and reverence of this Sacrament, are bydegrees fallen into a profane negleit and contemptof ir./ (hall briefly mention a tbttfold Obligation lying uponall Chriftians to frequent Communion in this holy Sacra-i mem, each of them fufficient of it felf, but all of them to-I gether of the greateft force imaginable, to engage us| hereunto.j i. We are obliged in point of indifpenfablc duty, and| in obedience to a plain precept, and moft folemn inftitu-j tion of our bleffed Saviour, that great Laregivtr, who isI *bh to (Avt *nd. to dtfiroi, as Sf.Jmts calls him : He hathpi: bid us, Do this. And Stint Paul who declare* nothing ini| this matter, but what he tells us he rtctivtd from tht Lord,t1 admonUhethusto doitfl/rrn. Now for any man that pro-|t fefleth himfelf a Chriftlan.to live in the open and continued;| contempt or negleft of a plain Law and Inflicution of Chri(lI is utterly inconfifient with ftich a profeffion. To fuchl! our Lord may fay as he did to the Jews, why ctllye mt.R Lord, Lord, tnd do not the things which Ijty. How far theI ignorance ofthisinflitution, or the mlfiakes which menhave been led into about it, may extenuate this negleft isanother confideraiion. But after we knew our Lord’s willin this particular, and have the Law plainly laid before us,.there is no cloak for our fin. For nmhing can excufe thewilfull negleft of a plain Inftitutl&n from a downrightcontempt of our Saviour’s Authority.a. We arelikewife obliged hereunto’m point oflntef-eft. The benefits which we expeft to be derived and af-furedtousby this Sacrament are all the bldfings of thenew Covenant, the forgivenefs of our fias, the grace andaflfiflance of God’s holy Spirit, to enable'us to perform theconditions of this Covenant required on our part; and thecomforts of God’s holy Spirit to encourage us in well-doing,and •O) ,*nd to fupport us under fufferings; and the glorlohs re-w ard of eternal life. So that In neglefting thkSacramentwe negleft our own inrereft and happinefs, we forfake ourown mercies, and Judge our felves unworthy of all the.blcflings of the Gofpel; and deprive our felves of one of thebefl means and advantages of confirming and conveyingthefe blelTings to us.So that if we had not a due fenfe of ourduty, the confideration of our own /Httrt/^fhould oblige us,not to negleft fo excellent and fo effectual a means of pro¬moting our own comfort and happinefs.3. We are likewife particulary obliged in point of Gra¬titude to the carefullobfervance of this Inftitution. Thiswas the particular thing our Lord gave In charge, when hewas going to lay down his life for ui. Do this in rtmtm-irtnet of m. Men ufe rcligioudy to obferve the charge ofa dying freind, and unlefs it be very difficult and unreafon-able, to do what he defires; But this is the charge ofour beft freind ( nay of thegreat'eft friend and benefatforof all mankind ) vvh^n he was preparing himfelf to die inour fiead, and to offer up himfelf a facrifice for us; to un"dergo the moft grievous pains and fufferings for our fakes, *and to yield up himfelf to the worft of temporal Deaths, jThat he might deliver us from the bitter pains of eternal |Death. -And can we deny him any thing he asks of us who jwas going to do all’ this foV us ? Can we deny him this ? Ilo little grievous and burthenfome in it (elf ; fo*in- iffinitiy beneficial to us? Had fuch a friend, and in fuch Icircumftances bid us do (ome great thing , would wenot have done it? How much more when he hath onlyjhid, Do this in rtmimbrance of mt! when he hath onlycommanded to us one ofahe moft natural and delight*full Aftions, as a fit reprefen’ation and memorial of hissvonderfull Love to us, and of his cruel fufferings for ourfakes ; when he hath only enjoyned us, in a thankfull1 commemoration of his goodnefs, to meet at his table,and to remember what he hath done for us ; to lookon him whom we have pierced, and to refolveto gdeve;.and wound him no more ? Can we without the moft nor-SK xibleingratitude negleft this dying charge of our Sovcraiguandf II)and our Saviour, the great friend and .lover of fouls ? Acommand fo reafonable, (o eafie, lo full of blcflings andbenefits to the faithfull obfervers of it!| One would think it were no difficult matter, to con-I vince men of their duty in this particular, and of the ne-ceflity of obferving fo plain an In' Itution of our Lord, thatit were no hard thing to perfwade men to their intercfl,leto be willing to partake of thofc grea r fit manifold blcfimgs,which all Chriflians believe to be promned and made goodto the frequent and worthy Receivers of this Sacrament.Where then lyes the difficulty ? What fhculd be thecaufeof all this backwardnefs, v^hkhwe fee in men to fo plain,| fo neceffary, and f6 beneficial a duty / The truth is, menhave been greatly difeouraged from this Sacrament, bythe unwarry preffirg and inculcating of two great truths j■ tbf dtngtr of tht Hnivorthjrtctivinz of thii bolj Sacrtmcnt,\, ZT)dtbinici[Jitjo\ a dut pnftrttion for it. Which bringsij, me to the; III. Third Pafticular I propofed, which was to endea-ipf vour to fatisfie theand which have been4 raifed in the minds of men, and paricularly of many devoutini and fincereChriffians, to their great dlfcouragement fromi f the receiving of thisS’acrament.at leaf! fo frequently as theyto ought. And thefe Objcftions, I told you, are chieflyS grounded upon what the Apoftle faye* v. 27. whtrtforevobofotvtr (hill ut this hrud and drin^tbis cop of the Lord| unworthili, is guilty of tbtbodi and blou'd of the Lord. And a-4 gain v,2g.Ht tbit tittth and drintyth unworthily,utttb andft drin^ttb damnation to himfdf.Upon the mifiikcSc milappli-il cation of thefeTexts have been grounded Tw< Objeftions,-il of great force fo difeourage men from thisSacramenr.whicli9 .1 (half endeavour with all the tendernefs and clearnef* IIcan to remove. Firfl, That the danger of unworthy re¬ceiving being fo very great, it feems the fafefl way not toreceive at all. Secondly, That fo much Preparation andd worthinefs being required in order to olirworthy receiving,he more timorous fort of devout Chriflians can never thinkhemfelvcs duly enough qualified for fo facred an Aftj.cn.1. That(lOi. That the danger of unworthy receiving being fo very l|great, It fcems the fafeft way wholly to refrain frqm thuijSacrament, and not to receive it at all. But this Objeftion His evidently of no force, if there be (as moft certainly ithere Is ^ as great or a greater danger on the other hand,rt\. in the oegleft of this Doty : And fo though the dan- 1ger of unworthy receiving be avoided.by not receiving,yet the danger of neglefting and contemning a plain Infti-tution of Chrift is not thereby avoided. Surely they in thePttnblt that refufed to come to the Mvritci-ftisl of theKing's Sont and vudt light of that gracious invitationwere atlealt as faulty as he who came without a wedding,garment. And we find in the conclufion of tire Ftrtble,•that as he was feverely punlfiied for his dlfrefpe(t, fo theywe're deflroyed for their difobedience. Nay of the two,it is the greater fign of contempt wholly to negleft the Sa¬crament, than to partake of it without fome due quali¬fication. The greareft indifpofition that can be for thisholy Sacrament is ones being a bad man, and he maybeas bad, and is'more like to continue fo, who wilfully ne-glefts this Sacrament, than he that comes to it with anydegree of reverence and preparation, though much Idsthan he ought: And fufely it i* very hard for men tocome to fofolemn an ordinance without fome kind of re¬ligious awe upon their fpirirs, and without lome goodthoughts and rdolutions, at lead for the prefem. if a manthat lives in any known wickednefs of life, do before hereceive the Sacramcnrfct himfelf ferioufly tobe bumbledfor his fins, and to repent of them, and to beg Gpd’sgrace and affiftance againfi them, and after the recei¬ving of it, docs continue for fome time in thefe good re- |folutions, though after a while he may poffibly relapfeinto the fame fins again ; this is fome kind of refirajnt toa wicked life, and thefe good moods and fits of repen¬tance and reformation are much better than a conftantand uninterrupted potirfe of fin : Even this rightcopfnefs,whichisbut as the morning cloud tnd the tirlf dev, whichfo Icon pafleth away, is better than none.And indeed fcarcc any man can think of coming to the.Sacrament,C »3 )SacriMJtnt.but he will by this conGjlcration be excited tofome good purpofes,and put upon (ome fort of endeavourto amend and reform his life ; and though he be veryImuth under the bondage and power of evil habits, if he(do with any competent degree of fincedty (and it is hisown fault if he do not ) mak: ufe of this excellent meansand inlirument, for the mortifying and fubduing of hislufti, and for the obtaining of God’s grace and afliftince,it may pleafe God by the ufe of thefe means, fo to abatethe force andpovyer of his luffs, and to imprint foch confi-derationsupon his mind, in the receiving of this holy Sa¬crament, and preparing himfelffor it , that he may at laftbreak off his wicked courfe.and become a good roan.But, on theoth r hand, as to thofe who negleft thisSacrament, there is hardly any thing left to retrain themfrom the greitefl enormities of life, and to give a checkto them in their evil courfe; nothing bat the penalt',- ofhumane laws, which men may avoid, and 3-et be wiokedenough. Heretofore men ufedto be reftratoed from greatand fcandalous vices by Hume and fear of difgrace, andwould abftain from many fins, out of regard to their ho¬nour and reputation among men: But men have hard-tied their faces in this degenerate Age , and thofe gentlerefiraintsof modefiy which governed and kept men in•1 order heretofore, fignifie nothing now a-dtys. Blufhingis out of fafhion, and fhame is ccsLd from aoicag the chil-11 drep of men.But the Sacrament did always pfe to lay foate kind ofreffralntupon the worft of men^ asd if « did not whollyicform them, it would atleaft havcf'wegvo.1 effeft uponthem for a time: If it did nor make nrea good, yet itwould make them refolve to be itid leave goodthoughts and impreflions upon theirauiaii.So that I doubt no- but it hath been adifeg cf very badconfcquehce, to difeourage meo fo'madh from the Sa-I ctament, as the way hath -been ©f Satie years; and thatmany men who were ond?r fome Hdniof check beforefince they have been driven away fern the Sacrament*hive quite let loofc the reigns, *a.V psottiiuted thera-fclve&( *4)felve* to all manpcr of impiety and vice. And among thethe many ill cfFeftt of our part confufions, this i* noneof the kart; Thar in many congregations of this King¬dom, Chrifttans were generally difufcd and deterred iromthe Sacrament, upon a pretence that they were unfitfor it j and being fo, they muft necefTarily incur thedanger of unworthy receiving ; and therefore they hadbetter wholly to abrtain from it. By which it came topafs, that in very m oy places this preat and. Solemninftitution of the Chrirtian Religion was almort quite for¬gotten, as if it had been no part of it, and the remem¬brance of thrift's death even loft among Chnftians:So that many Congregations in England might juftly havetaken up the complaint of the Woman at out Saviour’sfepulchre, fhtj hive tt^en iwiy anr Lord, ind we l^norvnotvrbm th’j hive hid him.Butfurelv men did not well confidcr what they did,nor what theconfequence of it would be, when they didfo earncftly dillwade men fro n the Sacrament, ’Tis trueindeed the danger of unworthy receiving is great ; butthe proper.inferencc and conclufion from hence is nor,that men fbould upon this confideration be deterred fromthe Sacrament, but that they fhould be affrighted fromtheir fins, and from that wicked courfi; of life, which isan habirual indilp ifition and unworthinefs. St. PiuUIndeed £ as I obferved before ) truly reprefents, and verymuch agg avats the danger of th?.unworthy receiving oftills Sacrament; but he did not deterr the Corinthiansfrom it, bccaufe they hid fometimes come to it withoutdue reverence, but exhorts them to amend what had beenamifs, and to come better prepared and difpofed for thefuture* And therefore after that terrible declaration in theText, rthafaiver jhil eat this bread, and drin^ this cup afthe Lard uawarthily. iscuiltl of t^ebod] and bioud of theLa.d, he dees not add, thwefore let Chriftians take heedf of coming to the Sacrament, but let them come preparedaud with due reverence, net as to a common meal, butto a folcmn participation of the body and bioud of thriftC 15)Ht lit * nuu txmim himftlf, and fo let him eat oj that bread,\nd drink, of that cup.j For, if this be agood reafon to abftaln from the Sacra¬ment, for fear of performing fo facred an aftion in ani ndue manner, it were bcft for a bad man to lay afide111 Religion, and to give over the cxercife of all the dutiesId piety, of prayer, of reading and hearing the WordBod ; becaufc there is a proportionable danger in thejtnworthy and unprofitable ufe of any of thefc. "[be prayerjf the wicktd (that is, of one that refolves to continuejo) is an abomination to the Lord. And our Saviour givesjs the lame caution concerning hearing the Word of God j^.ake heed bow ye hear. And St. Paul, tells us, that tholejrtihoarenot reformed by the doftrine of the Gofpel, it iskbt favour of death, that is, deadly and damnable to fuchIperfons.But now will any man from hence argue, that it Is beftfor a wicked man not to pray, not to hear or read theiWord of God, left by fo doing he fltould endanger andjbggravat his condemnation ? And yet there is as muchireafon fro* this confideratlon to perfwade men to giveover praying, and attending to God’s Word, as to layafide the ufc of the Saciamenr. And it is every whir astrue, that he that prays unworthily, and hears the wordof 6od unworthily, that is, without fruit and benefit, isguilty of a great contempt of God, and of our blefled Sa¬viour', and by Wsundevout prayers, and unfruitful hear¬ing of God’s Word, does further and aggravat his owndamnation : I fay, this is every whit as true, as he thateats and drinks the Sacrament unworthily is guilty of a highcontempt of Chrift,and eats and drink} his own judemeitt,iothat the danger of the unworthy performingmhis fo facrelan action is no otherwifea realon to anyman, to abflainfrom the Sacrament, than it is an Argument to him tocaftoff all Religion. He that unwdrthily ufeth or performs anypart of Religion is in an evil and d-mgerous condition} buthe that cafts off all Religion plung th himfelf into a moftdefperat ftate, and does certainly damn himfelf to avoidthe danger of dfusnayoa: Becacfe he that carts oftRdigiosl\( 15 )Religion, throws o(f ill the means whereby he fhould bereclaimed and brought into a better Rate. 1 cannot morefitly illuftrat this matter than by this plain Similitude. Hettvac eats and drinks intemperatcly endangers his healthand his life, but he that to avoid this danger will not eatat all, I need not tell you what will certainly become ofhim in a very fiiort fpace.There arc fome confcientious perfom who abftaio fromthe Sacrament, upon an apprehenfion that the fins whichtheyfhall commit afterwtrds are unpardonable. Butthis is a great ralflake ; our Saviour having fo plainlydeclared, that all manner of fin fhal be forgiven men,except the blafphecny againft the holy Ghoft; (uch aswas that of the Phtriftes, who as our Saviour tells us blaf-phemed the Holy Ghoft, in aferibing thofe great miracleswhich they faw himworke, and which he really wroughtby the Spirit of God, to the power of the DeviU Indeedto fin deliberately after fo folcmn an engagement to thecontrary is a great aggravation of fin, but not fuch as tQmake it unpardonable. But the neglcft of the Sacramentis not the way to prevent theft fins ; but, on the con¬trary, the couftant receiving of it, with the beft prepa¬ration we can, is one of the moft eftcdual means to pre¬vent fio for the future, and to obtain the afliftance ofGod’s grace to that end. And if we fall into fin afterwardswe may be renewed by repentance $ fir tve Jaa.vt.tn tdvt,cate with tht Fathirt jtfits Ckri(l tht richttous, who is thepropitiation for oar fins ; and as fuch, Is in a very livelyand afifeftiog manner exhibited to us, in this bleffed Sa¬crament of-his body broken, and his bloud fhedfor th?;remlflion of our fins. Can we think that the primitiveChriftians, whofo frequently received this holy Sacra'meat, did never after the receiving of it fall into any deli¬berate fin? undoubtedly many of them did; but far be*it from us to think, that fuch fins were unpardonable, andthat fo many good men fhould becaufe of their careful andconfcientious obfervance of our Lord’s Infticutioa una¬voidably fall into condemnation.T#i( *7 )To draw to a conctefion of thi* matter; fuch groundlefsIfears and jealoufies ai thefe may be a fign of a good mean-ling, but they are certainly a fign of an injudicious mind."For if we (land upon thefe Scruples, no man perhaps waslever fo worthily prepared to draw near to God in any dutylof Religion, but there was ftill fome defeft or other in theidifpofnion of his mind, and the degree of his preparation.But if we prepare our feWes as we can, this is all that GodJexpefts. And for our fears of falling Into fin afterwards,ithereisthls plain anfwer to be given to it ; that the dan-iger of falling into fin is not prevented by neglecting the'Sacrament, but encrcafed-,becaufe a powerfull and probableimeans of prefervfng men from fin is negleCted. And whyjfhould not every fincerc Chriftian, by the receiving of thf*jSacrament, and renewing hi* Covenant with God, ratherjhope to be confirmed in goodnefs, and to receive furtherajfifiances of God’s grace and holy Spirit,to flrengthen himijagainft fin, and to finable him to fubduc it; than troubleIhimfell with fears, which are either without ground, or if(they arc not, are no fufficient reason to keepany min fromIthe Sacrament ? We cannot furely entertain fo unworthyi a thought of God, and ourblefled Saviour, as to imaginethat he did inflitute the Sacrament, not for the furtheranceOf our Salvation, but as a fnare, and an occafion of ourruine and damnation. This were to pervert the graciousIdefign of God, and to turn the cup of Salvation into a cupof deadly polfontothe fouls of men.All then that can reafonably be inferred from the dangerof unworthy receiving is, that upon this confiderationmenfhouldbe quickned to come to the Sacrament with a duepreparation of mind, and fo much the more to fortifietheir refolutions ofiiving futably to that holy Covenant,which they folemnly renew every time they receive thisholy Stcrament. This confideratlon ought to convince usbf the abfolute neceflity of a good life, but not to deter usfrom the ufe of any means which may contribute to makeus good. Therefore (as a learned Divine fays very well)this Sacrament can be neglefted by none bnt thofc thatB da1(18)do not underfland It, but thofe who ate unwilling to be rr-ed tothtir duty, and are afraid of being engaged to u£etheir beft diligence to keep the coiflmandtnents of Chrifl:And fuchperfons have no reafon to fear being in a worfecondition, fmcethey are already in fo bad a ftate. Andthus much may (office foranfwer to the fir ft Objtfiion con¬cerning the great danger of unworthy receiving this holySacrament! I fSall proceed to thezStcond Ob)efiion, which was this; ThatfoObj. 2. tfcueh preparation and worthinefs being requi-red ro our worthy receiving, the more timo¬rous fort of Chrihians can never think themfelves duly e-nough qualified for fo facred an A ft ion.Fora full -anfwcr to this Objeftlon, I (hall endeavourbriefly to clear thefe 'Ibrtt thincs. That every de¬gree of Imperfection incur preparation for this Sacramentis not a fufficient reafon for men to refrain from it. Second¬ly, That a total want of a due preparation, not only In thedegree but in themain and lubffanccofit, though it ren¬der us unfit at prefent to receive this Sacrament, yet itdoes by no means excufeour negleft of it. Thirdly, Thatthe proper inference and conclufion from the total want ofa due preparation, is not to cafi off all thoughts of receiv¬ing the Sacrament, but iramedlatlv to fet upon the workof preparation, thatfo we may be fir to receive it. AndIf T can clearly make out thefe three things,! hope thisOb-jeftion is fully anlwered.I That every degree of Imperfeftion in our prepara¬tion fqr this 5acrament is not a fufficient rcafon for mentoabflain from it; for then no man (hould ever receive,it : For who is every way worthy, and in all degrees andrefpeftj duly qaahfied, to approach the prefence of God inany of the duties of his Worfhip and Service ? Who canTva(h his hands in innoctnci. that fo he be perfectly fit toapproach God’s Aha: ? There is not a man on Carth that. lives and fins nor. Thr Graces of the befl men are imper¬fect, and every imperfection in grace and goodnefs is an’^'perfection in the difpofttion & preparation of our mind*(19 ) .for this holy Sacrament-.But if we do heartily repent of our! fins, and fmcerely refolve to obey and perform the term*of the Gofpel, and of that Covenant which we enteredinto by Baptifm, and are gctng folernnly to re new and con.firm by our receiving of this Sacrament, we are at leaftIin fome degree, and In the main qualified to i a take of thisholy Sacramenr; And the way for us to be more fit is toreceive this Sacrament frequently, that by this fpiritualfood of God’s appointing,by this living bread which comesdown from heaven our fouismay be nour ifhed in goodnefs,& new ftrength and venue may be continually derived tous, for the purifying of our heaits, and enabling us to runthe ways of Gods commandments with more confiancy anddelight. For the way to grow is and to be (Irtngth-Md with all riight in the inner man, and to abound in alli the fruits of rigbtetufntfs,which bj t hrift Jefus are to the praifeij and glory of God, is with care and conlclence to ufe thofe| means which Grodhath appointed for this end: And if wci| will negleift the ufeof thefe means, it is to no purpofc for|) «is to pray to God for His grace and affiflance. We may111 tire our felves with our devotions, and fill heaven wiih vaincpmplainti, and yet by all this importunity obtain nothingfat God’s hand: Like lazy beggers that are always complain-ifig and always asking, but will not work, will do nothingto help themfelves, and Ijetter their condition, and there-(fore ate never like to trove the pity and companion of o-thers. If we expert God’s grace and affifiance, we muft ‘Workout .our own falvat.ion in the carefull ufe of all thefemeans which God hath appointed to that end. That ex¬cellent degree of goodnefs, which men would have to fitthem for the Sacrament, is not to be had but. by the ufeofit. And therefore it is a prepofterous thing for men to In-fifi upon having the end before they will ufc the means that•nay further them in the obtaining of it.a. The total want of a due preparation, not only in theligree, but in the main and fubflatice of It, though it ren-ler us unfit at prefent to receive this Sacrament, yer doest by no means cx'cirfe our neglta of it. One fault mayE 2 ' draw •-( ?0 )draw on another* but can never cxcufe It. It is. our greatfault that we are wholly unprepared, and no man canclaim any benefit by hit fault, or plead it In excufe or ex¬tenuation of this negleft. A total want of preparationand an abfolute unworthinefs is impenitency in an evileburfe, a reiohrion to continue a bad man, not to quithis lulls, and to break off that wicked courfe he hath li¬ved in: But is this any excufe for the neglefl: of onr duty,that we will not fit our felvei for the doing of it withbenefit and adtantage to our felves ? A father commandsMs fon to ask hi* blcffihgeverv day and is ready to giveIt him *, but to Jbng as he is undutlfnl to him In his otheraftions, and lives in open difobedience, forbids him tocome in his fight. He excufeth himfelf from afking his fa¬thers bkfifing, btcaufe he is undutiful in other things, andrefolves to continue fo. This is juft the caufe of negle¬cting the da y God requires, and the bit flings he offers tous in the Sacrament, becaufe we have made our felves in¬capable of fo performing the one as to receive the other,and are refolved to continue fo. We will not do ourduty in other things, and then plead that we are unfit andunworthy to do it In this particular of the Sacrament.3. The proper inference and concluf.on horn a total ;want of due preparation for the Sacrament, is not to*caft offal! thoughts of receiving of it, but immediately ro '(et about the work of preparation, that (o we may be fit,to receive it. For if this be true, that they who are ab»folutely u. prepared qur'ht not to receive the Sacrament, |nor can do it with any benefit; nay by doing it in fuch awianner render their condition much worfe , this is'.3 moft forcible argument to repentance and amendment oflife. There is nothing reafon.ible in this cafe, but imme.diately to refolveupcna better courfc, that fowe may bemeet partakers of thofe holy Myfte- ies, and may no long-,cr provoke God’s w'ath againft us by the wilfull neglectoffogreatandneceffarya duty of the Chriftian Religion*And we do willfully ncgleft ir, folong as we do willfullyrdufe to fit and qualific our fclves for the due and worthyi*r-c*operformance of it. Let us view the thing in a like cafe;A pardon is gracloufly offered to a rebel, he declines toaccept it, and tnodefily excufeth hirafelf, becaufe he isnot worthy of it. And why is h'cnot.worrhy ? Becaufe he) refolvesto be a rebel, aud then his pardon will do himb no good, but be an/aggravation of his Crime. Very true ;and it will be no lefs an aggravation that he refufech it forfuch a reafon, and under a pretence of tnodefiy does themoff imprudent thing in the world This is juft the cafcjand in this cafe there is but one thing reaibnable to bedone, and that is, for a man to ma|te himfelf capable oftire benefit as foon as he can, and thankfully to accept .of! it: But to excufe himfelf from accepting of the benefitoffered, becaufe he i* not worthy of it, nor fit for it, norever intends to be fo,is as it a man fhould defire to be ex-cufed from being happy, becaufe he is refolved to playihe fool and to be milerable. So that whether our wanej of preparation be total, or only to fome degree, it is every| wayunreafonahle . If it be in the degree only, it oughtt nor to hinder us from receiving the Sacrament; If it beI total, it ought to put us immcdiatly upon removingI the impediment, by making fuch preparation as is necef-I fary to the due ar.d worthy receiving of it. And this brin; sji me to theIV. Fourth and laft thing I propofed , vi\. Whati preparation of our fclvesis neceffary in order to the wor-jil thy receiving of this Sacrament. Which I told you would| give me occafion to explain the Apostle's meaningI in the laft part of the Text, But let € run exmini'him-I ft/jr tr.d fo let him utof thtt bread and irin^ of that cup.I I think it very char from the occafion and circumftan-i|| ces of the Apoflle's dticourk concerning the Sacrament,I that he does not intend the examination of our flare.8 whether we be Chriftians or nor, and fincerely refolvedto continue fo ; and confequently that he does not herefpeak of our habitual preparation by the refolution of a|j good life. This he takes for granted, that they were Chri-t| ftians and rcfolved to continue and perfevere in theirChri-V JC 2 2 ) •Chriftian profcfTion : But he fpcaks of thqlr adual fundsand worthincfs at that time when they came to receivethe Lord’s Supper. And for the clearing of this matter,we mufl confider what it was that gave occafion to thisdUcOurfe. At the 20th vtrft of this chtptir he ftiarply re-provestheir irreverent and unfuitable carriage at the Lord’sSupper, they came to it very diforderly, »«f btftrt mo¬ther. It was the cuftona of Chrlhlans to meet at their FraJSoj charity, in which they did communicate with great fo-briety and temperance ; and when that was ended, theycelebrated the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper. Now a-mong the corjatbim this order was broken \ the rich metand excluded the poor from this common feaft; And af¬ter an irregular fcaft ( one before another! eating his own1'upperas he’came) they went to the Sacrament in greatdiforder *, One ivis hungry, having eaten nothing at ail;Others vert drunk hiving eaten iqtemperately j and thepoor were defpiled and ncglcfted. This the Apofile con¬demns as a great profanation of that folemn Inflirution ofthe Sacrament, at the participation whereof they behavedthemfelves with as little reverence,as if they had been metat a common Sdoper or Feaft. And this he calls, not dif-cernyiglhe UreCs body, making no difference in their be¬haviour between the.^acrament and a common meal jwhich irreverent and contemptuous carriage of theirs hecalls, eating and drinkjng'unvportbily ) for which he pro¬nounced) them guilty oj the body and bloo el of the Lordtwhich were reprefented and commemorated in their rer-ing of that b^ead and dunking of that cup. By which irre¬verent and contemptuous ufage of the body and bloud ofour Lord, he tells them that they did incurr the judg¬ment of God ; which he calls, eating and dunking thtirown judgment. For that the word xpiff/t which our Tran-flatours render damnation, docs not here, fignifie eternalcondemnation, but a temporal Judgment and chaftife-ment in order to the prevention of eternal condemnation,is evident from what f< How* i He that eateth and drink-ah unworthily, eateth and drtn^eih Judgment to bimfelj:c=n ,And then he fay*, For this ctufi ma*j trt wie^ tndemonepis, and mnj (lap : Thatis, for this irreyetenceof theirs, Godhadfent among rhem fcveral difeafes, ofwhich many had died. And then he add!. Far ij m wouldJndct our felvts, we (hould not bt judged. For if yoe wouldJudge our (elves; whether this be meant of the pufalickCenlures of the Church, or our privat cenfuring of ourfelves, in order to our future amendment and reformationis not certain. If of the latter, which I think n oft pro¬bable, then Judging here is much the fame with fantw/-ning our (elves, ver. 28 And then the Apoftle’s meaning.is, that if we would cenfure aftd examine our felves, fo1 as to be more careful for the future, we fliou d efcape the' Judgment of God in thefe temporal punilhments; Butwhin we are judged, we are ‘ haflned of the Lordy that weflmld not be condemned with the world. $ut whtn we areJudged; that is, when by negleftlng thus to judge ourfelvet, we provoke God to judge u»; an chained ofI the Lord, that we (hould not be cond’jnne'd with the world ;that is, He i; fluffs thefe temporal judgments upon m to .prevent our erc^nalcondemnation. .Which p'ainiy fbews *that the judgment here Ipoken of is not eternd condemna-iton.'Ard then he corcludcsrrfc/r/forr,^ Brethren,re ben jecome together to eat, tarry jor one another. Ana if any manhunger, let him eat at home, that ye come not together untojflt/f wnt: Wlie'c the plainly fhews both what was •tliecrimecf unworthy receiving, and the punifhment ofit. Their crime was, their irreverent and diforderly parti¬cipation of the Sacrament; and their punifhmer.t was,thofe temporal judgements which God intlifted upon themfor thh their contempt of the Sacrament.l>Jow this being, I think, very plain; vve are proporitionably to underftanci the precept of examination of ourfelee*, befo*eweut of that bread , and dnn^ of that cup.I But let t mih examine himfil)-, thitis, cbnfidcr well svitbhimfelf what a fact-d Adtion hels going about, and whatbehiviour become' him, when belt cclebradna this Sacra-. mem inftituted by our Lord In memorial of his body and£ 4 bloud,C 24 )bloud, that istof his death and paffion; And if hertJoforehe hath been guilty ot any dlforder and irreverence ( fuchas the Apofile here taxeth them withall ) let him cenfurebimfilf for it, befenfibk of and forty for hisfault, and be carcfull to avoid it for the future; and havingthus Ezimined bimfelf, let him eat of that bread, add drinkof that cup. This, 1 think, is the plain feftfc of the Af obit'sdifeourfe ; and thatifvvc attend to the fcope and circutn-fiances ot it, it cannot well hat e any other meaning,Butfome will flyJi this all the preparation that 1* requir¬ed to our worthy receiving of the Sacrament, that we takecare not to come drunk to it, n6r to be guilty of any Irre¬verence and difordcr in the celebration of it ? I anfwer infhort, this was the particular unworthinefs with which theApoftle taxeth the Corinthians, and which he warns themto amend, as they defire to e'lcape the Judgments of God,fuch as they had already felt for this Irreverent carriage cftheirs, fo unfuirsbte to the holy Sacrament: He finds noother fault with .them at preftot In this matter, thoughany other fort of irreverence will propordonably expolemen to the like puoifhment. He fays nothing here of theirhabitual preparation, by the finecre purpofe and reiolu-tion of a good life; anfwerable £Q the rules of the ChrlllianReligion } this we may fuppefe he took for granted. How¬ever, 1c concerns the Sacrament no more than it doesPray-er or any other religious Duty. Not but that it is very true,that none but thofe who do heartily embrace the CbtifUarjReligion, and arc finccrely refolved to frame their lives ac¬cording to the holy rules and precepts of it, are fit tocom-rr.unicat in this fokmn acknowledgment andproftflion ofat. So that it is a praftice very much to be countenanced jand encouraged, becaufe it is cf great ufe , for Chriflians \by way of preparation foe the Sacrament to examine them-felves in » Urgcr lenfe than in all probability the AfoUlf 1here intended ; I mean, to examine our paft lives ana theaftians of them, in order to a fincere repentance of all |our errours and mifearriages, and to fix us in the Readypurpofe and refoiucion of a better life j particularly, whenwe7 (we expeft fo haw the forgirenefjof our fins fealed to us,wejfihould lay aftde ail enmity and thouph's of rcreoge, andhcartilv forgive thole that have offended us, and put!n pradxe that unlverfal love and charity which is repre-illentcd to us by this holy Commuai o. \nd to this parpofcwe arc catneftly exhorted lo the pubhok office,of the com.itotMnion by way ol due preparation and difpc'fi ionfor it,:to rtpent us trutly of our fins pa/2, to amtnd m iiv(st and ttt\be in ptrfitt charity with all men, that (o rot may be meetipxrtak'rs if theft holy mjfltries.And becaule this work of examining our ft Ives concern*ling our Hate and condition, and of txcrcifmg repentance(towards God, and charity towards men is incumbent up-i on us as . we areChriftians.and can never be put inpract-i ice more feafonably, and with greater advantage, thani when we are meditating of this Sacrament, therefore be-j Tides our habitpal preparation by repentance, and the con-1 fiant endeavours of a holy life, it is a very pious and cotn-i: (uendabie cufiom in Chrifiians before tlielr coming to the| Sacrament, to ftt a part fome particular time for this workj of examination. But how much time every perfon IhouldI allot to this purpofe, is matcer of prudence y and as it needI not, fo neither Indeed can it bcprecifeiy determined.Somehave greater rcaion to fpend more time upon this workthan others, I mean thefc, whofe accounts are heavier, be-caufe they have long run upon the fcore, and negleftedthemfelves ■, and fome alfo have more Icifurc and freedomfor ir, by reafon of their cafie condition and circuruftancesin the world •, and therefore are obliged to allow a greaterportion of time for the cxercifes of piety and devotion. Ingeneral, no man ought to do a work of (o great moment Seconcernment flighty and perfumftorily. And in this, as Inall other aftions, the end is principally to be regarded.Now the end of examining our feives is to underfiand ourflare and condition, and to reform whatever we find amiTsIn our feives. And provided this end be obtained, theclrcumflanccsof the meansare Icfs confiderable ; whethersnore or left time be allowed to this work, it matters not* c*o>fo much, as to make fure that tlie work be throng!done.And I do on purpofe fpeak thus ciutloufly in this mster, bccaufe fome pious perfons do perhaps err on tlflri£lerhand,Sr arc a lirrle fuperlHtious on that fide in Imuch that unlefs they gain fo much time to fet a part forfolcmn preparation,they will refrain from the Sacramenat that time, though otherwifethey be habituilly preparedThisI doubt not proceeds from a pious mind ; but as tlifays in another cafe about the Sacrament,prgift them in ibis ? I prgife thim not. For provided thenbe no wilful! negleft of due preparation, it is muchbetf^ilo come fo prepared as we cin, nay I thinki" is our dutyio to do, rather than to abftain upon this punthlio. Forwhen all is done, the be/l preparation for the Sicramenr, isthe general care and endeavour of a good life; and hethat is thus prepared may receive at any time'when op¬portunity is offered, though he h»d no particular fore-fight of that opportunity. And I rhi. k In that cafe fucha one fhall do much better to receive than to refrain, b^caufe he is habitually prepared for the Sicramenr, thoughhe had no time to make fach aftual preparation as he;defined : And if ihis were not allowable, how could Mi-nifters comraunicu vchh fick perfons at ad times, or per-fwade others to do it many times upon very' Ann and lud.den warning?And indeed we cannot imagine that the primitive Chrifil*ans, who received the Sacrament fo frequently, thatfor ought appears to the contrary they Judged it asef.fential and neceffary a part of their publtck worftiip isany other part ofcit whatfoever, even as their Hyrros &Prayers, and reading and interpreting of the Word of G^:I fay we cannot well conceive how they who celebratedIt fo confiantly,could alloc any more time for a folemn pre¬paration for it, than they did for any other p»rt of di¬vine worfhip : And confequently tjiat rhe Apofilt, when hebids the Corintbinns cxjmine them^dves, could mean nomore than that confidering the nature tends of thb/nfiitu-c 27 )jn they fhould come to it with great reeereoce; and:flcft!ng upon their former mifcarri-eei in this matter,lould be carefull upon this admonition to avoid themt the future,and to amend what had beenzmifs; whichi do requires rather refolutlon and care than any longme of preparation.i fpeak this, that devout perfons may not be intangledan apprehenfion of a greater neccfTity than reallyier< is of a iong & foiemn preparation every time theyrcclve the Sacrament. The great necefliry that lyes uponicn is to live as becomes Chriftians, an: then they can ne«’erbe abfolutely unprepared. I)Jay I think this to be «'cry good preparation ; and I fee not why men fhould cott>e very vvell fatished with (c, unlcfs they intend to makethe fame life of the Sacrament that many of the Papifts dopf Confcflion and Abfolution, which is to quit with Godfance or twice a year,that fo they may begin to fin again up-fan a new fcore.But beciufe the Examination of our (elves is a thing fo’try ufefull, and the time which men are wont to fetipart for their preparation for the Sacrament is fo advan¬tageous an opportunity for the practice of it; therefore' cannot but very much commend thofe who take this oc-:;fion, tofearch and try their ways, and to call thcra-Icives to a more folcmn account of their atfions. Secaufethis ought to be done fometime, and I know no fittertime for it than this. And perhaps fome would never findtjrae to recoiled themfelvcs, and to take the condition olheir fouls into furious confideradon, were it not upon■is foiemn occafioo.The fum of what I h,;vr faid is this, that fuppofing ajerfontq be habitually prepared by a religious difpofiti-jon of mind, and the general courfe of a good life, thisimore foiemn adual preparation is not always neceflary;And it is better when there is an o^portuotty to receivewithout it,than no io receive at all: But the greater ouradual preparation is, the better. For no man can exa¬mine himftlf too. often, and underiiand the ilatc of hisfoulfoul too well, and exerclfe repentance, and renew t!rclolmlooi of it good Hfe too frequently. And there .lierhips no fitter opportunity for the doing of all thlthan when we ipproach the Lord’s table, there to contnemorate hi* death, and to renew oar Covenant wihim to live as becomes the Gofpel.All the Reflcftion 1 (bal now make upon* this Difcourh ,fhall be from the confidcration of whit hath been laid |earnellly to tjtcite all that prhfefs and call themfelveChriltians to a due preparation of rhcmfelve's for this hdly Sacrament, and a frequent pirricipa'tlon of it, accor [iddng to the intention of our Lord and Savionr in the ini iftitutionofit, aad the undoubted praftice of Chnfiian .in ttie primitive and bed time*, whep men hid more dcvotion, and fewer fcruplcs about their duty.if we do in good earneft believe, that thh Sacrament.wailnfiitttted by our Lord ip remembrance of his dying®,love, we cannot but have a very high value and efieem folkIt upon that account. Methinkj fo ofctn at vve read theinftitutlon of it, thefe words of our dear Lord, Da this lit Trmimbrtnci if m, and confiderwhat he who (aid them ,did for us, this dying charge of our beft friend fhouldi iflick with us, and make a tlrong impreffion upon out jminds: tfpecialty if we add to thfcfe, thofe other words of-* — *• * - •-*-    ■' - "s hitihis, not long before his death, Grttltr lave thin this hna pun, that t mm lay d^wnhislifefar bis friendsye artmy friends, if ye da whatfoever I command you. It is a won¬derful love which he hath exprefied to us, and worthy tobe had in perpetual remembrance. And all that he ex¬perts from us, by way of tfiankful acknowledgment, istojcelebrate the remembrance of it by the frequent partlcipa* ;tlon of this blrffcd Sacrament. And fhal this charge, laid |upon us by him, who laid down his life for us, lay no o-lbligation upon us to the folemn remembrance of that un-ljparallel’d kindnefs, which is the fountain of fo many blef-|flags and benefits to us f It is a great fign we have no|great (enfe of the benefit, when we are fo unmindfoll of|our Benefaftour, as to forget him days wLhout number. ■ThelC 29.)he obMgitlon he hath laid upon us, is fo vaftly great*tt only beyond all req-jital, bur- beyond all cxprcflfion^ht If 1c had commanded us iome very grievous thing,,[e ought with all the rsadincls and checrlalncfs Ui thelorld (ohive done It; how much more when he hathmpofed upon us f'oealie a commandmeot, a thing of no'LrtheD, but of immenle bentfi;? When he hath only faldo us y Eat, O ftiends j ana Drink, O beloved? WhenLe only invites us to his table, to the bed and mod de -»clous fead that we can pat tike of on this fide heaven ?|If we ferioufly believe the great bleffings which are thereinhibited to us,fc ready to be conferred upon us,we fttouldhe fo far from neglcftlng them, that we fhould heartilyajhankCodforevery opportunity he offers to us of being:jnade partakers of fuch benefits. When fuch a price istout into our hands dial we watuhearts tomakeufc ofitJjjjyie thinks we ffcould long with mvid ( who faw but themeadow of thefe bleflings ; to be fathfied with the goodhlngs of God’s houle, and to draw near his altar j and•fcould cry out with him, 0 whin [hal I come and appear■Before thee\ mj foul longnb, yea even faintetb for the courtsM the Lord, and mj fltfh crieth out for the living God. And1 if we had a jud edeem of things,we fhould account it thejlgrcatefi infelicity and judgment in the world to be debar-cilredofthls prlvikdge, sshichyct we do deliberately andi|Frequently deprive our dives of.We exclaim againd the Church of Rome with great im«ipatlcncc, and with a very jud indignation, for robbinglithe People of half of this blcflcd Sacramen' . andleaking from them the cup of bltffing , the cup offalvationiliand yet weean patiently endure for feme moneths, nays years, to exclude our felves wholly from it. if no luch:|lgrcat benefits and blcflings belong to it, why do we com-■jplain of them for hindring us of any part of it? Bur i£ill there do, why do we by our own negkft deprive our lei-tifves of the whole ?In vain do we bemoan the decay of our graces, and ourp| flqw progrth and troprQvcratw in CluiftUnity, whild we(?°)wHfoIIjr defplfe the heft mean* of our growth in goodnefwWell do wedeferre that God fhould fend leannefi intoour fouls, and make them to confume and pine away Inperpetual doubting and trouble, if,when God hlmfclf dothfpread a Table for os, and let before us the bread of life;we will not come and feed upon It with joy and thank*fulnefle.Fl*ClS.\