nLATEST ACCOUNT 'OF THELOSS OF THE COMET,On the Morning of Friday.the 21st ofOctober, 1825,WITHA LIST OF THE PASSENGERS AND THEBODIES FOUND.(From the Glasgow Free Press of Wednesday.)Greenock, Monday Mornng.We Hast night saw John jil‘Lellani one of the under-stewards, who was saved. The following is his statement,and nearly in his own words:—When the concussions ofthe vessels took place, he was descending the steps whichlead to the cabin. He hastened down ; and seeing JohnHeron (another of the stewards, whose body has been found)resting on his right aim, apparently asleep ; he tried to him,( ‘ OF SCOTLAND ')  r  /2“Johnny, haste ye, the boat will sink !” Heron rose up¬on his legs, and rubbing his eyes, replied to him in d man¬ner as though he deemed his messmate was joking; but hehad scarcely uttered half-a-dozen words, when the water,to use bis own expression, came ‘ rushing in like a burn.’All that were below now rushed towards the stair lead¬ing to the deck in the greatest confusion, many of themscreaming in a pitiable manner. As soon as M‘LelIandreached the deck, Captain Sutherland, who was earnestlyspeaking to his lady, having hold of her hand, turned roundto him, and asked—‘ Steward, frill you be able to makefor shore ?’—He made no answer, not knowing what to thinkof the matter. In the course of a few seconds, he heaidone of the crew, HI‘Lachlan he thinks, express his fearshat they would all be lost; upon which he pulled off hisshoes, buttoned up his fustian jacket, and ascended one ofthe ropes affixed to the funnel. W hen he was a little wayup. Captain Sutherland made another appeal to him, buthe was out of breath with climbing, and could make noanswer. He was too much affrighted, at this time, to noticewhat was going forward on beard the Ayr, but saw theirown crew and passengers all clustering together, and calledto the crew of the other vessel to save them by the mostearnest appeals. On looking round, he observed the vesselsinking at the bow end. The screams that were utteredwere dreadful in the extreme. Mrs Sutherland exclaimed,‘ Oh, my God ! my God 1 she’s sinking—we’re lost!’—andclasping her husband round his neck, sunk with him intothe abyss of waters Miss Duff, healso states, had been mar¬ried to the captain nearly fine weeks, andnot only the five days,as stated in the papers of Saturday. She was celebrated,in the Highlands, for her beauty and accomplishmeuts-Every one on deck was clinging either to the person nextthem, or parts of the vessel. The piercing cries and groanswhich were uttered at this moment baffle all description ;sleeping or waking, he says, they are uppermost in hisaaiad. He would choose to amuse himself in any way.3rather than fall asleep, so strongly do the horrors of thiscatastrophe work upon his imagination. He climbed to thetop of the rope, where the heat was so intense that he couldscarcely hold on : he held fast, however and when the bo;itsunk, ne went down with her. When rising towards thesurface of the water, he hit against something which hesupposes to have been a human body, which again sent himdown. He immediately rose to the surface a second time,and found himself surrounded by the passengers andcrew, clinging, some to each other, and some to parts of theluggage that floated. He describes himself, at this time,as almost numbed by the coldness of the water. After»ramming tor a few minutes, he observed a person makingto yards him, but thinking he might cling to tiim, and beingmuch fatigued, he did all in his power to evade him. Hedeems this person to be the captain of the Comet, who wa»saved. He swam at random for some time but recoveringat length somewhat from his fright, recollected the windblew to shore, and accordingly took that course. He pass¬ed one of the females, Rachel M'Kcllar, who arrived safeon shore. She was holding on with both hands, by a pole,which she had probably laid hold of in going down, and thewind having caught her upper garment, she floated quicklytowards the beach. When JM‘Lellan was a short,distancefrom the shore, he swam against a wooden box : he wasnearly exausted and numbed in his legs. He laid hold ofthe box, and rested his chin on the top of it, but he could notsupport himself sufficiently against the returning waves, andwas consequently every few minutes under water.—Hud itnot been for this box, providentially cast in his way, hesays be must have perished.”Gourock, Fliday Evening—The following are particu¬lars we have gathered from another of the crew. He saysthat the pilot of the Comet wished a light to be exhibited inthe lanthorn, but he was told ‘ there was no light to sparetill such time as they should arrive at Greenock, as therewere but few .candles on board.’ This denial was made b»4the Captain, or one of the Stewards, but he cannot now saywhich of them it was. The collision took place about half-ptst one. The moon, to the best of his recollection, wentdown an hour before. The dancing had ceased some time,and the majority of the passengers were conversing in groupson various parts of the deck. After the concussion, theAyr swung in on the Comet’s larboard paddle-box. Su¬therland, the carpenter of the Comet, shoved off the sternof the Ayr,—and, while doing so, he heard one of the per¬sons on board of her call out, ‘ set on the engine,’ whichwas done on the instant, and she bore off. Sutherland,was cast away on the coast of Holland in 1817, at the timethe AJbion smack of Leith, bound for Hamburgh, was lost;and in ISIS he.was on board the Stirling steam-boat whenshe exploded at Grangemouth.A poor woman, the wife of Donald MHntyre, residingat Eaglesham, hut a native of ilonaw, with her family, con-siting of six children, were all lost. She has been pickedup, together with her infant and two daughters. Three ofthe sons are still missing. The unfortunate woman waspregnant, and within a few months of the time of her ac-couchment. Thus was this poor man, at one fell swoop,bereaved of wife and children, and left a solitary being inthe world.(From the Glasgow Herald of Friday.')Thursday, 27th Oct This morning, the weather beingVery calm, the business of trawling with the boats was re¬sumed at an early hour, and before seven o’clock, the bodyof a man with fustain jacket and trowsers and a black vestwas found i he is supposed, from certain certificates found;n a pocket-book on his person, to be either Lewis or Do-tald i’ll-Kay, a son of George I\I‘Kay, belonging to the pa¬sh of Duthil; Peter Sutherland, the carpenter of the Co-et, says he is Donald M‘Kay, by trade a smith, and that«5■,* / f *-■s -r.-'9he was on hrs way from Invergordon to f-iksgow to seekemployment; and this account is by no means improbable,from the coincidence o? a smith’s leather apron being amongthe articles washed ashore on the day of the accident. Fromthe decayed state in which the bodies are which are got now,it is rendered indispcnsible to have them quickly coffinedand interred; and except by their dress, or documents foundupon them, their nearest relations are unable to identifythem.Greenock, one o'clock, Thursday Every effort is makingto raise the bodies, but up to this period we have heard ofonly one being found, supposed to be of the name of Mac-kay ; he had in his pocket about £8. Yesterday, three bo¬dies were found, viz. the fireman, and two young women ;— total number of dead bodies, 50; and these saved amountto 13 ; making in whole 03 accounted for, and 15 can beenumerated as still missing. Sir Joseph IladeliiFe's servantswere buried on Tuesday, and were attended to the graveby Sir Joseph, accompanied by his brother-in-law, ColonelIvl‘Donald, who acted as chief mourners ; and on this me-lanch; ly occasion a body of mourners were present, who al¬so assisted at the interment of five others early in the day,of whom three were of Donald M‘Intyrc’s family, who losthis wife and six children. All are claimed but the soldi rof the 45th, and two young women raised yesterday, and thebody found this morning.(From the Glasgow Chronicle of Saturday.')On Wednesday the search for the remaining bodies ofthe sufferers of the Comet was renewed. Three bodies werefound. One of them was the fireman, named MTxenzie,and has been claimed by his wife. The others were, ayoung woman, seemingly between twenty and twenty-five,sad a girl from ten to twelve years of age. The car*' penter supposes the former came on board at Oban. Shewas dressed in a brown gown, chocked apron, and had astring of coral beads round her neck. The girl had on abrown great coat, and red comforter. An old man and twogirls had a narrow escape. They came on board at Crinan,and on the boat stopping for some time at a port on thevoyage, went ashore on some business that rendered themabout one minute too late for pursuing their journey.On Wednesday morning Mr Rankine measured the depthof the water where the Comet sunk, and the distance fromshore, preparatory to the adoption of measures to raise her,when the farmer was found to be 15 fathoms at half tide,and the latter 18G yards and a half.A very handsome scarf was brought up supposed to bethe property of the much lamented Mrs Captain Sutherland.From the weight at first attached to the drag, there is everyreason to believe that that unfortunate lady’s body was withthe scarf, from which it parted on the getting up.[From the Edinburgh C our ant of Monday.)The body of Mrs Sutherland was found on Friday aboutmid-day—but so dreadfully mutilated that it was found im¬practicable to take the corpse from the water. It was there¬fore kept floating, and the coffin that had been prepared forits reception brought down to the side of the river, and thebody then placed in it. Shortly afterwards it was carriedto Glasgow, where the remains of her gallant husband lay,and yesterday, (Sunday) the last sad offices were performed,and both were interred in one grave. The body of MrM‘Alister was also found on Friday afternoon. A reportwas in circulation in town yesterday that the Comet hadbeen raised by the assistance of two steam-boats, and thirteenbodies found in the cabins. We were unable, however, totrace tins report to any authentic scource.7On looking back to this melancholy catastrophe, it maybe some consolation to the friends of the unfortunate suffer¬ers to know that nothing could possibly exceed the huma¬nity shown by the Magistrates, gentlemen, and communityof Greenock and the immediate vicinity of Gourock. Notonly has the most unremitting activity been displayed, sincethe morning of the fatal day, in searching for the bodies—■the utmost possible respect and delicacy observed to the re¬mains of the dead—but the most soothing and consoling at¬tention paid to the feelings of the numerous persons whowere hourly arriving, in anxious enquiry after lost relatives.The conduct of all concerned, in short, has been such, asto reflect the very highest credit on the inhabitants of Gree-Kock.(From the Greenock Advertiser of Friday.')Inquiries are still making rby people yet arriving fromdistant parts of the Highlands regarding relations, who arein some cases known, and in others supposed to have beenon board the Comet. A young man arrived yesterday fromGlasgow, and had the body of his cousin, John M‘Pherson ,which was got on Sunday, disinterred; it was, however, somutilated that he could not know him—but from the colourof his hair, and the pattern of the vest he wore, he was con¬vinced he was his relation. He says he is a native of Dor¬noch, in Sutherlar.dshire. A woman from Glasgow, sup¬poses her father, (whose nameisJohn M'Crea) mother,andbrother, to have been on board, as (bey had expressed theirintention of coming in the Comet fiom Oban. A younglad from Fort William also arrived yesterday, in seatch ofhis brother, a young man of 18 years of age, of the namecf Kennedy, who was in the boat, and was on his wayto Paisley to be a shopkeeper in that town ; and seve¬ral inquiries have been made regarding a poor man ef- T' ’ ■8the name of Gray, who almost constantly went with theComet. He used to earn a livelihood by playing thepipes on boaid, and by taking small parcels and moneyto and from the different ports at which the Comet was un¬accustomed to call. From various accounts it appears thaton this occasion he had a good deal of money in charge.The descriptions of a number of people supposed to havebeen on board, have been left with the Sheriff-Substitute,but amongst the inquiries there are comparatively few whocan positively state that their friends were really on board,although the whole show some grounds on which their fearsnaturally exist. A person, named Charles M‘Lean, hasbeen ascertained to have been on board the Comet when shesunk, and saved, in addition to those formerly mentioned.There may still be about fifteen persons supposed to havebeen on board the Comet when she sunk ; and some of theseare no doubt within the unfortunate vessel, or in its imme¬diate vicinity, where the drags cannot operate.(From the Glasgow Herald of Monday.')Greenock, ICine o'clock, Saturday night.—The body ofJlrs Sutherland was found close by the shore, about oreo’clock yesterday; and an hour afterwards the body of 31 r]V1 ‘Allister, W.S. was found near the same place: theywere placed in coffins previously prepared for them, andabout five o’clock the remains of that unfortunate lady pass¬ed through this town on its way to Glasgow, accompaniedby Captain Warren, who arrived shortly before they werebrought to shore. Every thing has been prepared for rais¬ing the Comet since last night, but owing to the heavy surfufjon the water nothing has been done. There have beentup lighters and two steam boats with the necessary tack¬ling in Gourock bay ever since, and as soon as the weathersettles they proceed to the spot without a moment’s delay.9It has been stated in various papers that Alexander Gray,piper of the Comet, was found some days since. This isincorrect, and may cause much inconvenience to many in.,dividuals who expected remittances by this honest but un¬fortunate man, as it has been ascertained that he had from£250 to £300 on his person, to be paid in Glasgow onaccount of various individuals in the Highlands. The younggentleman whose linens were marked C. B. S. has not beenclaimed, though asserted otherwise, and it is quite uncertainwhat his name was: he has been interred, along with someothers, a few inches from thefsurface, lest ^is friends shouldwish to claim the body. It was stated that the Comet hadher jib set at the moment of coming in contact with theAyr; this is wtong, as there was no sail upon her from thetime she left Rothesay, and previous to this the main-sailwas set under close reef.Grecnr.c'c, Sunday, Two o'clock.Captain and 31 rs Sutherland were on Saturday buried inthe same grave. “ They were lovely and pleasant in theirlives, and iu their death they were not divided.” The fu¬neral was conducted with military honours, and it was alsohonoured with the regrets and pity of all who witnessed themelanchtdy, though at the same time splendid procession.The interment was in the burying ground of the EnglishChapel, Glasgow.{From the Glasgow Courier of Tuesday.)The body of the amiable Mrs Sutherland was brought upto Glasgow on Friday evening, and on Saturday, about threeo’cloek, it was, together with the body of her lamented hus¬band, removed from the Barracks and interred in one grave—“ dust to dust, ashes to ashes" in the hurrying ground ofthe Oid Episcopal Chapel. The military in garrison attend,ed on the occasion, and, sincere mourners, they paid, with-- ..mca.On the—“‘“ci s servi,10th of Decern,10all the customary military honours, the last token of respectto the remains of their unfortunate comrade and his unfor¬tunate consort, but cut off by a fatal accident in the prime oftheir days. The scene was altogether very solemn and af¬fecting. Although the hour of interment was but partiallyknown, still a very great multitude assembled to witness theprocession, and the windows of all the streets near andthrough which it passed were crowded with respectable per¬sons to witness the ceremony, and who, as well as those onthe streets, evinced by their deportment, the deep interestwhich they took, and the strong sympathy which they felt,on this melancholy occasion.Besides the prosecutions intended by the Public Prose¬cutor, of the nature of which we are ignorant, we learn, thatmore than one action is directed to be commenced againstthe proprietors of the Comet for damages, on the part ofthe surviving relatives of the sufferers. The proprietors ofthe Ayr are, we belive, equally liable. How far such ac¬tions can be maintained we know not; but they are broughtupon the principle of equity, that, in law, steam-vessel*which carry passengers should, in the persons of their pro¬prietors be, like mail and stage coaches, liable for damage*to those who may suffer by their ignorance and improperconduct. As every individual proprietor is, in such cases,liable to the full extent of the compensation which may beawarded, it will make all and each of them in future paythe utmost attention to the appointment of proper crews toman, pilots to guide, and masters to direct and commandsuch vessels.(From the Greenock Advertiser of Tuesday.)We are informed that the poor man Alexander Cray,piper of the Comet, had, on this unfortunate trip, moneyentrusted to him by people in the Highlands, to the amount11ef from £250 to £300, chiefly for individuals in Glasgow.It has been rumoured that his body was got a few days ago,but this is incorrect, none having been found but thosenoticed in our former papers. A contemporary Journalmentions that the name of the young man whose linens weremarked C. B. S., and who has not been claimed, is uncer-tain. This is not the case. We formerly stated it to beCharles Bailey Sutherland, and from the source of our infor¬mation, we can unhesitatingly vouch for its correctness.We have to add to the list of those saved a person of thename of Nicol, one of the Comet’s crew, whose fortunateescape has hitherto unaccountably passed unnoticed.We regret that, by an unintentional mistake, the nameof a Major M‘Alister had been mentioned as one of the suf¬ferers ; we are now assured that no such person was aboard,and we can only account for his name having been usedfrom its similarity to that of Mr John M‘Alister, nephewto Mr Charles M‘Alister, who was unfortunately lost.A young woman, named Mary Clark, whose father resideshere, was formerly prevented from coming with the Cometfrom Oban, where she had been on a visit to her grandfather.After being on board she felt a litte sick, and came ashoreagain at the suggestion oi lier friends, until she would some¬what recover, during which time the boat set off. She con¬sequently lost her passage, but to that in ail probability sheowes her life.Half past One, p.m.—Our messenger has just returnedfrom Gourock, which he left within an hour, at which timethe vessels on the river had just commenced active operationsfor raising the Comet. It still blows strong. No otherbodies have yet been found.In addition to the useful suggestions already thrown out,for the guarding against a like occurrence, we extract fromthe last Glasgow Mechanics’ Magazine, the following plan*WofCm*suggested by Mr Henry Bell, of Helensburgh, who posses¬ses the entire, though unrequited merit, of having reducedand improved the application of the steam engine to vesselsin this country : “ I would recommend that each steam boat should belicensed, and numbered as stagecoaches; and in these li¬cences, the tonnage of the vessel, and number of horse powerof the engine should be inserted. The expense of the li¬cense not to exceed one shilling per horse power, on a stampof 5 per cent, on the value ef the license.“ Bhat all steam vessels at or under twenty horse powerbe restricted not to carry on board, at one time, more thanforty passengers, (children from six to twelve years of ageto count as one half pusengcr,) each passenger to be allow¬ed 56 lb. of luggage; and all steam-boats upwards of twentyhorse power, to be at be at liberty to carry one passengermore for each horse power above twenty. Thus, a boat offifty horse power would be licensed to carry seventy passen¬gers, independent of the crew ; licenses to be taken out an¬nually.“ That those vessels be navigated by experienced seamenfor captains, pilots, mates, &c., and should also have expe¬rienced engine keepers of which the proprietors must pro¬duce certificates, and for whom they should be responsible,and these peoples’ names to be indorsed on the license.“ That those steam vessels be at least furnished with twolights, one an the bow, and one at the mast head) to be putup at one hour after sun-set, and properly attended to ; alsoan alarm-bell, at night, attached to the engine, and a properwatch kept a-hcad with a speaking trumpet to direct thesteersman of the vessel.“ That all steam-boats, meeting each other give way tothe larboard side, and all steam-boats when overtaken by aswifter one, do the same, and allow them to pass on theirstarboard side, by stopping their engine as soon as the oneever-taking them comes with thirty-feet of their stern ; andnil sailing vessels to give a sutheient birth for steam.boats13passing with freedom, not being properly attended to, hasformerly caused the loss of lives.”CAPTAIN SUTHERLAND.CFrom the London Courier.)Captain ITemyss Ersldne Sutherland of the 33d FootWho was unhappilly lost, with his bride, on the west coastof Scotland, was the third son of Captain Sutherland Sci'o.erscross, in Nottn Britain, and only remaining brother ofLieutenant.Colonel Sutherland, of the 5th Foot; and a fitner young man, whether in personal appearance, or sweet,ess of disposition, was seldom to be found in any rank ortation in life; he was in his 28th year.On the 31st of August last, he had married, after a Ion<rnd singular attachment, Miss Duff, the eldest daughterf Mr Duff; of Muirtown, aud niece of Mr Forbes, of Cub.den, an elegantly accomplished and amiable young ladyher Sjd year. He was on his way to join the Depot ofis regiment at Nlasgow. The aSiction of the families ofis young couple, on so melancholy a catastrophe will beore easily imagined than described ; but to those whoow and can appreciate the ardent attachment that boundm to each other, it will be some consolation, under thesterious dispensations of Providence, that they met theirstiny together.His Royal Highness the Commander in Chief had beenS iqoF™-™016 t!'is y°unS man to a Company, in Oc-cr, 1821, in compliment to his eldest brother’s servi.on the west coast of Africa. On the 10th of Decern.14ber last, he embarked from Barbadoes (where he war rta-tior.ed with the 93d) on leave of absence for Europe, in theBorodino transport, which vessel, soon after leaving Anti¬gua, encountered a dreadful gale of wind, during whichshe struck on a sunken rock, where she fixed for the wholeof that night, all on board having long given up every hopeof saving their lives; but at day-light, as if by miiacle,she floated off the rock, and drifted into Bermuda harbour,whence he wrote to the afflicted writer of this notice, that‘v whatever period his life might extend, he would pro¬bably never be so perfectly reconciled to die as he had bee*the previous night.’’———'A LIST OF THE PASSENGERS AND THEBODIES FOUND.Saved.1. P. Sutherland, carpenter.2. Peter M ‘Bride, pilot.3. John Gillies, fireman.4.. John M‘Lelland, steward.5. AITnnes, the master.6. James Nicol, deckman7. Jean Munro8. John Cameron7. C. A. Anderson10. Rachel M'Kellar11. A woman, name unknown—her infant dtowr.ei22. Ewan M‘Donald, from Fort-Augustu*13. Charles APLean.15Bodies found on the 21st and 22d.1. Mrs Wright, of Glasgow2. and 3. Maid servants to Sir Thomas Raddiffe—Han¬nah Mitchell one of them *4. and 5. Two other women—not known6. A child, about three years old, ditto7. Ditto, do.8. Archibald Graham, Corpach9. John Bell, flesher, Dumbarton10. James Grierson, steward of the Comet11. Angus Cameron, Fort William12. William Allan13. James Miller, Edinburgh14. John Reid, Edinburgh15. A ,Girl about 17 years of age—name unknown16. Duncan Mackenzie, a trader17. An old man from Crinan—name unknown18. A woman unknown, supposed the mother of 4 child¬ren who were on board19. John Dingwall20. George Murray, a Highland trader.21. James Manderson, engineer of the Comet.22. A young woman, named Rose, claimed—and carriedto Greenock.23. Sailor belonging to Limekilns or Kincardine.24. Ronald Mackenzie, piper to Sir Joseph RadclifTe.25. A young gentleman, linen marked C. B. S surgi¬cal instruments found on him—supposed to be a MrSmith of Inverness.26. Mr Angus A. Kennedy, a young gentleman about14 or 15, going to College.27. A young man about 15—unknown.28. An Irish Pedlar—name unknown.29. Euphan Niven, servant to Mrs Wright of Glasgow.30. A young lady, claimed by her brother on the shore.Found on the 23d.31. John M‘LachIan, a seaman belonging to the Comet.10S3. Mrs Wincup, housekeeper to Sir Joseph JRadcliffe.33. A inan—had on a brown coat, yellow buttons, andblack trowsers.St. Donald M‘Brayne, shoemaker, Glasgow*35. Sir Joseph lladcliff'e’s man servant.36. A man—had on blue trowsers like a seaman own*ed by a cousin.St- A young woman, initials J. N. I. with livery ser¬vant’s great coat on—supposed maid-servant to Sir.Joseph Rad elide.38. D. Campbell, Glasgow, claimed and taken by a bro¬ther.39. Mr Hugh James Rollo, W. S. Edinburgh.40. John Herod, supposed second steward of the Cometsteam boat.41. and 42. Donald Cameron and Alexander McKenzie;two of the Comet’s crew.Found since the 2itA.43. Captain Sutherland41. A soldier of the 45lh regiment45. Donald M‘Kay, Invergorden46.  M‘Kenzie, fireman of the Comet47 and 48. A young woman and a girl49. Mrs Sutherland50. Mr M‘Alister, W.S.STIELIXG :—PRINTED AT THE JODENAE OFFICE,4th NOVEMBER, 1S25.