CHEAP TRACTS,Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity,No. XX.An Evening Walk,with Suitable Refle&ions.MOTIVES to PIETY and VIRTUE,Drawn from the'Omnifcience and Omniprefence of the Deity.WHAT MAN IS,Gonfidered in himfelf;and theNatural H mage he owes hisCREATOR:with fome happy Effects which flow from a Truft in God,GRATITUDEI Duty we owe to God—Its amiablenefs-— APlectjing Exercise UV.With a BeautifulHYMN ON GRATITUJD TUm trf'aJdumu ^     1—_The evening’s walk of a wife man, is more illuftrious ia their1 fight, than the match of a General at the head of a hundredi thoufand Men.”I Addjsow,' -   ■ . - 1 •* I Bi I UMMI 'I  DUNBAR:' rinted by G. Miller:—atwhofe Shop may be had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures Catechisms, etc.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,EVENING WALK&c,Seon as the Evening Shades prevail,The Moon lakes up the wondrous Tak^And nightly to the lijlning EarthRepeats the Story of her Birth:Whiljl alt the Stars that round her bumiAnd all the Planets in their tumfConfirm the Tidings as they roll.And fpread the Truthfrom Pole to Pole,In Reajm’s Ear they all rejoice.And utter forth a glorious Voice,For ever finging, as they fbene,“ The Hand that made us is Divine’*I Was Yefterday about Sun-let walkin,in the open Fields’till the Night infenfibly fell upon me. I at firft amufed myfel 7with all the Richnefs and Variety of Colour!!which appeared in the Weftern Parts of Her 1ven : In proportion as they faded away anwent out, feveral Stars and Planets appeared one after another, ’til! the whole Firm:ment was in a Glow. The Bluenefs of thuEther was exceedingly heightened and er:livened by the Seafon of the Year, and b( 3 )ithe Rays of ail thofe Luminaries that pahlifed through it. The Galaxy appeared inits moft beautiful White. To complete the^cene, the full Moon role at length in thatclouded Majefty, which Milton takes Noticeof, and opened to the Eye a new Pi&ure ofNature which was more finely lliaded, anddilpofed among lofter Lights, than thatwhich the Sun had before difeovered to us.As 1 was furveying the Moon walking in;her. Bnghtnefs and taking her Progrels a-Imong the Conftellations, a Thought role inill me which 1 believe very often perplexes andlidifturbs Men of ferious and contemplative!ll Natures. David himfelf fell into it in that:l! Reflection, When I confider the Heavens theIII Work of thy Fingers, the Moon and the Starsit 'which thou hast ordained ; what is man that'll than art mindful of him and the Son of Manll that thouregardefl him ! In the fame Manner' wnen 1 conlidered that infinite Holt of Stars,or to speak more Philosophically, of Suns,which were then fhining upon me, wuh thoseinnumerable Sets of Planets or Worlds, whichwere moving round theif respective Suns ;^ when 1 itili enlarged the idea, ana suppoied* another Heaven of Suns and Worlds rilingftili above this which wc difeovered, andthcleitdl eidightned byasupenur Firmamentof Luminaries, which arc piantedmt so greata Dntance, that they may appear to theInhabitants ot the former as the Stars do to us *( 4 )3n fliort, whildlpurfued this Thought I couldnor but refled: on that little infignificant IFigure which I myfelf bore amidft the Im-menfity of God’s Works.Were the Sun, which enlightens this Part6f the Creation, with all the Hoft of Plane-|tary Worlds that move about him, utterly jextinguiflied and annihilated, they would 1not be miffed more than a Grain of Sand;upon the Sea fliore. The fpace they pof-fefs is fo exceedingly little in Companion ofithe whole, that it would fcarce make a Blankin the Creation. The Chafm would be im¬perceptible to an Eye that could take in thewhole Compals ol Nature, and pafs fiomone End of the Creation to the other; as itis poflible there may be fuch a fenfe in our (lelves hereafter, or in Creatures which are at jprefent more exalted then ourfelves. Wefee many ftars by the Help of Glafles, whichwe do not difcover with our naked Eyes;and the finer our Telelcopes are, the moreftill are our difcoveries. Huygenius Qz.u'\t%\this Thought fo far, that he docs not thinklit impoffiole there may be ftars whole Light ,is not yet travelled down to us, fince their .firft Creation. There is no Queftion but;the Univerle has certain Bounds fet to it;but when we confider that it is the Work ofinfinite Power, prompted by infinite Good- unefs, with an infinite Ipace to exert itfelf m*( 5 )how can our Imagination fet any Bounds toit ?To return therefore to my firfl Thought,I could not but look upon my felf with fe-cret Horrour as a Being, that was not worththe fmalleft Regard of one who had fo greata Work under his Care and fuperintendency,I was afraid of being overlooked amidit theImmenfiiy of Nature, and loft among thatinfinite Variety of Creatures; which in ^11Probability fwarm through all the immeaiur-able Regions of Matter.In Order to recover myfelf from this mor¬tifying Thought, I conlidered that it tookits Rife from thofe narrow Conceptions,which we arc apt to entertain of the DivineNature. We ourfelves cannot attend to manydifferent Qbjedts at the fame Time. If weare careful to jnfpedt fome thkigs, we muftof courfe neglect others. This Imperfeft-ion which we obferve in ourselves, is anImperfe&ion that cleaves in some Degree*to Creatures of the higheft Capacities as theyare Creatures, that is, Beings of finite andlimated Natures. The Presence of everycreated Being is confined to a certain Mea¬sure of Space, and consequently his obser¬vation is {tinted to a certain Number of Ob¬jects. The sphere in which we move, andadt, and underftand, is of a wider Circum¬ference to one Creature than another, accor¬ding as we rise one above another in the( 6 )scale of Exiftence. But the wideft of theseour spheres has its Circumference. Whentherefore we reflect on the Divine Nature,we are so used and accuftomed to this Im¬pel fedtion in ourselves, that we cannot for¬bear in some measure ascribing it to him inwhom there is no fhadow of Imperfedtion.Our Reason indeed afiures us that his At¬tributes are infinite, but the Poorness of ourConceptions is fuch that it cannot forbearPetting Bounds to every Thing it contem¬plates, till our reafon comes again to ourSuccour, and throws down all thofehttle pre¬judices which rife in us unawares, and arenatural to the Mind of Man.We fliali therefore utterly extinguifh thismelanchojy Thought, of our being overlook¬ed by our Maker in the Multiplicity of hisWorks, and the infinity of thn(e Objects a-inong which he ieems to be inceflantly em¬ployed, if we conlider, in the firft place,that he is Omniprefent; and in the fecond,-that he is Omnifcient.If we confider him in his Omniprefence :His Being pafles through, a&uates, and fup.ports the whole Frame of Nature. His Crea¬tion, and every part of it, is full of him.There is nothing he has made, that is eitherfo diftant, fo little or fo inconfidcrable, whichhe does not efientially inhabit. His Sub-flance is within the fubftance of every Be¬ing, whether material, or immaterial, and asHifa<j£iIM’piwtOf/I.Il( 7 )intimttely prefent to it, as that Being is toitfelf. It would be an Imperfeftion in him,| were he able to remove out of one place in¬to another, or to withdraw himlelf from anyThing he has created, or from any part ofthat fpace which is diffufcd and fpread a->broad to infinity. In fiiort, to fpeak of himin the Language of the old Philofophy, heis a Being whole Centre is every where, andhis Circumference no where.In the fecond Place, he is Omnifcienc; as well as Omniprelent. His Omnifciencei indeed neceflarily and naturally flows fromhis Omni prefence ; he cannot but be con-fcious of every Motion that arifes in thewhole material World, which he thus eflen-I tially pervades, and of every Thought that.* is ftirring in the intelle<5iual World, to everyPart of which he is thus intimately united.Several Moralifls have confidered the Crea¬tion as the Temple of God, which he hasbuilt with his own Hands, and which is fil¬led with his Prefence. Others have con¬fidered infinite Space as the Receptacle, orrather the Habitation of the Almighty; Butthe nobleft and molt exalted Way of con-fidtring this infinite Space is that of SirIfaac Newton, who calls it the Senforium ofthe Godhead. Brutes and Men have theirSenforiola, or little Senforiums, by whichthey apprehend the Prelence and perceivethe Adions of a few Objeds, that lie con-( 8 )tigumas t© them. Their Knowledge an4Obfervation turns within a very narrow Cir¬cle. But as God Almighty cannot but per¬ceive and know every Thing in which herefides, infinite Space gives Room to infiniteKnowledge, and is, as it were, an Organ toOmnifoence.Were the Soul feparate from the Body,and with one Glance of Thought fhouldflart beyond the Bounds of the Creation,fhould it for Millions of Years continue itsProgrefs though infinite Space with the famejA&ivity, it would {fill find itfelf within theEmbrace of its Creator, and encompaffedround with the Immenfity of the Godhead.Whilft we are in the Body he is not lefs pre-fent with us, becaufe he is concealed fromus. 0 that I knew where I might find, him !fays Job. Behold I go forward, but he is notthere ; and backward, but 1 cannot perceivehim. On the left hand, where he does workbut 1 cannot behold him : he hideth himfelf on.the right hand that I cannot fee him. Infhort, Reafon as well as Revelation afluresus, that he cannot be abfcnt from us, not-withftanding he is undifcovered by us.Jn this Confideration of God Almighty’sOmniprefence and Omnifcience every un¬comfortable Thought vanifiies. He cannotbut regard every Thing that has Being, ef-pecially fuch of his Creatures who fear theyare not regarded by him. He is privy toC 9 )a# their thoughts, and to that Anxiety cfHenrr in particular, which is apt to troublethem on this Occaiion : For, as it is impof-fible he fhould overlook any of his Creaturesfo we may be confident that he regards withan eye of Mercy, thofe who endeavour torecommend themfelves to his Notice, andin an unfeigned Humiliy of Heart thinkthemfelves unworthy that he (hould bemindful of them.Motives to Piety and Virtue ,What are the Earth, the Sun, the StarstOr heav'n itfelf to me.My God, my everlafting blifs,If not ajfur'd of thee.Thofe blisfid thoje tranfport'mgfmilesiThat brighten Hcav'n above.The boundlefs Riches of t by graceAnd treafures of thy love;Thefe are the Mighty things I Crave,O make thefe blejfmgs Mine,And 1 the glories of this WorldContentedly Refign.IN your Paper of—^  — —you had Occafion to confider the Ubi¬quity of the Godhead, and at the fame timeto (hew, that as he is prefent to every thingtie cannot but be attentive to every thing.( 1° )and privy to all the Modes and Parts of itsExigence ; or, in other Words, that hisOmnifcience and Omniprefence are coexift-ent. and run together through the whole In¬finitude of Space. This coniideratiofi mightfurnifh us with many Incentives to Devotionand Motives to Morality, but as this Sub-3eft has been handled by feveral excellentWriters, l lhall confider it in a Light where-ui I have not feen it placed by others.First, How dilconfolate is the Conditionof an intellectual Being who is thus prefentwith his Maker, but at the fame time re¬ceives no extraordinary Benefit or Advan¬tage from this his Prefence-!Secondly, How deplorable is the Condi¬tion of an intelleflual Being, who feels noother Effefls from this his Prefence but fuchas proceed from Divine Wrath and Indig¬nation !Thirdly, How happy is the Condition ofthat intelleftual Being, who is fenfible of hisMaker’s Prefence from the Fecret EfTefls ofhis Mercy and Loving-kindnefs.First, How difconfolate is the Conditionof an intelledfual Being, who is thus prefentwith his Maker, but at the fame time re¬ceives no extraordinary Benefit or Advan¬tage from this his Prefence ! Every Par¬ticle of Matter is afluated by this AlmightyBeing which pafifes through it. The Hea¬vens and the Earth, the Stars and Planets,( II )move and gravitate by Virtue of. this greatPrinciple within them. All the dead Partsof Nature are invigorated by the Prefenceof their Creator, and made capable of exert¬ing their refpective Qualities. The fevera!Inftinfts, in the brute Creation, do likewifeoperate and work towards the leveral Endswhich are agreeable to them, by this Di¬vine Energy. Man only, who doesnot co-op¬erate with this holy Spirit, and is unattentiveto his Prdence, receives none of thofe Ad¬vantages from it, which are perfective of hisNature, and neceffary to his Well-being.' The Divinity is with him, and in him, andevery where about him, but of no Advan¬tage to him. It is the fame thing to a Manwithout Religion, as if there were no Godin the World. It is indeed impoflible foranjinfinite Being to remove himfelf from anyof his Creatures, but tho’ he cannot with¬draw his Eflence from us, which wouldargue an Imperfection in him, he can with¬draw from us all the Joys and Conlolationsof it. His Prefence may perhaps be necel-fary to fupport us in our Exiftence; but hemay leave this our Exiftence to itfelf, withregard to its Happinefs or milery. For, inthis Senle, he may caft us away from his: Prefence, and take his holy Spirit from us.' This finglc Confideration one would thinkI fuffieient to make us open our Hearts to allthole Infulions of Joy and Giadnels which( laare fo near at Hand, and ready to be pouredin upon us ; efpecially when we confider.Secondly The deplorable Condition of anintelleftual Being; who feels no other EfFedtsfrom his Maker’s prefenee, but inch as pro¬ceed from Divine Wrath and Indignation !We may afiure ourfclves, that the greatAuthor of Nature will not always be as onewho is indifferent to any of his Creatures,Thofe who will not feel him in his Love,■will be fure at length to feel him in his dif-pleafure. And how dreadful is the Condi¬tion of that Creature, who is only fenfiblc of. the Being of his Creator by what he fuffersfrom him ! He is as eflentially prefent inHell as in Heaven, but the Inhabitants ofthofe accurfed Places behold him only inbis Wrath, and (brink within the Flames toconceal thcmfelves from him. It is not inthe Power of Imagination to conceive thefearful Effedts of Omnipotence incenfed.But 1 fhall only confider the Wretchednefsofan intelleftualBeing,who in this Life,lies under the Difpleafure of him, that atall Times and in all Places is intimately un¬ited with him. He is able to difquiet theSoul, and vex it in all its Faculties. Hecan hinder any of the greateft Comforts ofLife from refrefliing us, and give an Edgetp every one of its flighteff Calamities. Whothen can bear the Thought of being an Out-' (*3)cafl: from his prefence, that is, from the Com¬forts of it, or’of feeling it only in its Ter¬rors ? How pathetick is that Expoftulationoi Job, when, for the Tryal of his Patience,he was made to look upon himfelf in thisdeplorable Condition ! Why haft thou fet meas a Mark againfl thee, fo that I am becomea Burthen to myfelfP But, Thirdly, how hap¬py is the Condition of that intellectual Be¬ing, who is fenfrble of his maker’s Prefencefrom the fecret EfFefts of his Mercy andLoving-kindnefs.The Bleffed in Heaven behold him Faceto Face; that is, are as fenfible of his Pre-£rnce as we are of the Prefence of anyPerfon whom we look upon with our eyes.There is doubtlefs a Faculty in Spirits, bywhich they apprehend one another, as ourSenles do material Objefts ; and there is noQueftion but our Soufs, when they are dif-embodied, or placed in glorified Bodies, willby this Faculty, in whatever Part of Spacethey refide, be always fenfible of the DivinePrefence. We, who have this Veil of Flefhftanding between us and the World ofSpirits, must* be content to know that theSpirit of God is prefent with us, by theEffefls which he produceth in us. Ouroutward Senfes are too grofs to apprehendhim; we may however tafte and fee howgracious he is, by his Influence upon ourMinds, by thofe virtuous Thoughts whichC 14 )\he awakens in us, by thofe iecret Comfortsand Refrefhments which he conveys intoour Souls, and by thofe ravi/hing Joys andinward Satisfactions, which are prepetuallyfpringing up, and diffufingthemfelves amongall the Thoughts of good Men. He islodged in our very Effence, and is as a Soulwithin the Soul, to irradiate its Underftand-ing, reftifie its will, purifie its paflions, andenliven all the powers of Man. How hap¬py therefore is an intelledhiai Being, who,by prayer and meditation, by virtue andgood works, opens this Communication be¬tween God and his own foul ! Tho' thewhole creation frowns upon him, and allNature looks black about him, he has hisLight and fupport within him, that are ableto cheer his Mind, and bear him up in themidft of all thofe Horrors which encompafshim. He knows that his helper is at hand,and is always nearer to him than any thingelfe can be, which, is capable of annoyingor terrifying him. in the midft of calumny,or contempt, he attends to that Being whowhifpers better things within his foul, andwhom he looks upon as his defender, hisglory, and the lifter-up of his head. In hisdeepeft Solitude and Retirement, he knowsthat he is in company with the greateft ofBeings; and preceives within himlelf fuchreal Senfations of his prefence, as are moredelightful than any thing that can be metC 15 )ii with in the converfarion ©f his creatures.‘iEven in the hour of Death, heconfiders thejpains of his Diffolurion to be nothing elfeibut the breaking down of that partition,which (hands betwixt his Soul, and the fightt of that Being, who is always prefent withihim, and is about to manifeft it felf to*hintin Fulnefs of JoyIf we would be thus happy,and thus (enfiblciof our Maker’s prefence, from the fecret:Effe<fls of his mercy and goodncfs, we muftkeep fuch a watch over all our Thoughts,Ithat, in the Language of the Scripture, his(foul may have pleafure in us. We muditake care not to grieve his holy Spirit, and(endeavour to make the meditations of ourhearts always acceptable in his fight, thathe may delight thus to refide and dwell inms. The light of nature could direft Senecaito this Doftrine, in a very remarkable Paf-I ifage among his Epiftlcs; Sacer inefl in nobisifpiritus bonorum malorumque cuftos, Ob-fern at or, quemadmodum nos illam trac-Mamus, ita if ille nos. There is a holy■ifpirit refiding in us, who watches and ob-siferves both good and evil Men, and will: itreat us after the fame manner that we treathim. But I fliall conclude this Dilcourfeiwith thofe more emphatical words in DivinedlRevelation, If a man love me, he will keepmy Word, and my Father will love him, andwe will come unto him, and make our ^Jbodevitb him.IVbat Man is, conjidered in bimfelf, and theNatural Homage he owes hisCreator i£c.Man ! know thyfelf. O thou great arbiter tf life and death !Nature’s immortal, immaterial fun;Whofe all Prolific beam late call’d me forthFrom darknefs, teeming darknefs, where I layThe worm's inferior^ and, in rarik, beneathThe duft I tread on, high to bear my browtTo drink the fpirit of the golden day.And triumph in extfience; and couldft knowNo motive, but my blifs; and haft ordain’dA rife in blefting ! I truft in thee* and know in whom I truft •Or life, or death, is equal; neither weighsAll weight in this ■■ 0 let me live to thee!MAN, confidered in himfelf, is a veryhelplefs and a very wretched Being.He is fubjed; every moment to the greateftCalamities and misfortunes. He is befet withdangers on all Tides, and may become un¬happy by numberlefs calualties, which hecould not forfee, nor have prevented, hadt.1'jjhe forefeen them.It is our comfort, while we are obnoxiousto fo many Accidents, that we are underthe care of one who direds contingencies, tand has in his -hands the management of s( *7 )every thing that is capable of annoying oroffending us; who knows the affiftance wefland in need of, and is always readybeftow iron thofe who ask it of him.The natural homage, which I uch a creaturebears to <o infinitely wife and good a Being*| is a firm Reliance on himfor the blcffings,andco.iVeniencies of life, and an habitual Truftin him ^or deliverance out of all fuch dangersand difficulties as may bcfal us.The Man, who always lives in this dif-pofition of nund has not the fame dark andmelancholy Views of human nature, as heSI who confiders himielf abftradtedly from thisrelation to the fuprcmc Being. At the fametime that he refledts upon his own weaknefsadd Imperfedion, he comforts himielf withthe contemplation of thofe divine Attributes*which are employed for his fafety and hiswelfare.. He finds fits want of forefight madeup by the Omnifcience of him who is hisSupport. He is not fenfible of his own waneol Strength, when he knows that his Helperis Almighty. In Ihort, the Perfon who hasa firm 1 ruft on the Supreme Being is Power¬ful in his Power, Wife by his W ildom, HappyI byhisHappinels. He reaps the benefit ef every'! Divine Attribute, and lofes his own Infuf-.. ficiency in the Fulnefs of infinite Perfection,To make oui lives more ealy to us, wei are commanded to put our Tfiuft in him,f who is thus able to relieve and fuccour us;( i8 )the divine goodnefs having made fuch areliance a Duty, notwithflanding we fhouldhave been milerable had it been forbidden us.Among feveral Motives, which might bemade ufe of to recommend this duty to us,1 fhall only take notice of thofe that follow.The firft and ftrongefl is, that we arepromifed, He will not fail thofe who puttheir Truft in him.But without confidering the fupernaturaJBleffing which accompanies this duty, wemay obferve that it has a natural Tendencyto its own reward, or in other words, that- this firm Truft and Confidence in the greatdifpofer of all things, contributes very muchto the getting clear of any Affli&ion, or tothe bearing it manfully. A perfon whobelieves be has his Succour at hand; andthat he adts in the fight of his Friend, oftenexerts himfelf beyond his Abilities, and doeswonders that are not to be matched by onewho is not animated with fuch a confidenceof fuccefs. I could produce Inftances fr^mHiftory, of Generals, who out of a beliefthat they were under the proteftion of fomeinvifible Affiftant, did not only encourage •their foldiers to do their utmoft, but haveadled themfelves beyond what they wouldhave done, had they not been infpired by;fuch a belief. I might in the fame manner(how how fuch a Truft in the Afliftance ofian Almighty Being, naturally produces pa-,( 19 >tiehce, hope, chearfulncfs, and all otherdifpofitions of mind that alleviate thofe ca¬lamities which we are not able to remove.The pra&ice of this Virtue adminiftersgreat comfort to the mind of man in Timesof poverty and Affl'&io^but moil of all in thehour of Death. When the loul is hoveringin the laft moments of its reparation, whenit is juft entering on another ftatc of Exit-»ence, to converge with Icenes, and objects,i and companions that are altogether new,what can lupport her under luch Trem-1 blings of Thought, fuch Fear, fuch Anxiety,l fuch Appreheniions, but he calling of allIher cares upon him who firft gave her Being,who has conducted her through one Stage: of it, and will be always with her to guideI and comfort her in her progrels throughEternity ?David has very beautifully reprefentedthis fteady Reliance on God Almighty inhis twenty third Plalm, which is a kind ofPaftoral Hymn, and filled with thofe Alla-fions which are ufual in that kind of Writing.As the poetry is very exquifite, I Ihall pre¬lent my Reader with the following Tran-flation of it.The Lord my Failure Ihall prepare.And feed me with a Shepherd’s Care:His Prelence fhall my Wants fupply.And guard me with a watchful Eye ;My Noon-day Walks he Ihall attend.And all my Mid-night Hours defend. ,C 20 )When in the fultry Glebe I faint.Or on the chirfty Mountain pant;To fertile Yale?, and dewy IVIeadsMy weary wand’ring Steps he leads ;Where peaceful Rivers foft and flow.Amid the verdant Landlkip flow.Tho’ in the Paths of Death I tread.With gloomy Horrors overfpread.My fieadfaft Heart Ihall fear no 111,For thou, O Lord, art with me (fill;Thy friendly Crook fhall give me Aid,And guide me through the dreadful Shade*Tho’ in a bare and rugged Way,Through devious lonely Wilds I ftray.Thy Bounty (ha! 1 my Pains beguile :The barren Wildernefs (hall fmile,Withfudden Greensand Herbage crown’d.And Streams (hall murmur all around.Gratitude a Duty we Owe to God idc.0 may I breathe no longer, than I breatheMy Soul in praife to him, who gave my Soul.Praife I a dijiant Deity ? he tunesMy voice, (if tun'd;) the nerve, that writes fujlaini: \'Wrapp'd in bis being, I refaund bis Praife :IF Gratitude is due from man to man, how -much more from man to his Maker > !The fupreme Being does not only confer f :?'■■Tg-jgT( 21 )upon us thofe bounties which proceed moreimmediately from his hand, but even thofebenefits which are conveyed to us by others.Every blefiing we enjoy, by what meansfoever it may be derived upon us, is theGift of him who is the greatAuthor of good,and Father of mercies.O ! how amiable is gratitude ! efpeciallywhen it has the fupreme Benefaftor for itsobject. I have always looked upon grati¬tude, as the moft exalted principle that canactuate the heart of man. It has lomething;i noble, difinterefted, and (if l may be allow¬ed the term) generoufly devout. Repen¬tance indicates our nature fallen, and prayerturns chiefly upon a regard to one’s felf.But the exerciies of gratitude fubfided inparadife, when there was no fault to deplore ;and will be perpetuated in heaven, whenGod (hall be all in all.”There is not a more pleafing Exercife ofthe mind then gratitude. It is accompaniedwith fuch an inward latisfaction, that theduty is fufficiently rewarded by the perfor-. mante. It is not like the practice of manyother virtues, difficult and painful, but at¬tended with fo much pleafure, that werethere no pofitive command which injoin’d it,| nor any recompence laid up lor it hereafter,! a generous mind would indulge in it, forI the natural gratification that accompanies it.If gratitude, when exerted towards oneanother, naturally produces a very pleafing( 22 )leniation in the mind of a graceful man ; iexalts the foul into rapture, when it is employed on this great object of gratitude ; oithis beneficent Being who has given uevery thing we already poflefs, and trot!whom we expect every thing we yet hope foiMoft of the works of the pagan poetwere either direct Hymns to their deities ctended indirectly to the celebration of therefpective \ttribures and prefections. Thowho are acquainted with the works of tGreek and Latin poets which are ftiil extan'•will upon Refl xion find this obfervation ftrue, that 1 fhall not enlarge upon it. Onwould wonder that more of our Chriftiapoets have not turned their Th nights thiway, efpecially if we confider, that our ideOf the iupreme Being is not only infinitelmore Great and Noble than what coulpofiibly enter into the heart of an Heatherbut filled with every thing that can raile thimagination, ana give an opportunity tcthe fublimeft Thoughts and conceptions.The Jews, who before the times of chriflanity were the only people that had thKnowledge of the True God, have fet thchriflian world an example how they ougl:to employ this Divine Talent of which 1 an/peaking. As that Nation produced men e rgreat genius, without conlidering them ;infpired writers, they have 'ranimitted i:us many Hymns and Divine Odes, whicexcel thofe that are delivered down to f( 23 )iiby the Ancient Greeks and Romans, in the'Poetry, as much as in the lubject to whichit was conlecrated. This 1 think mighteafily he thown, if there wereoccafion for it*A Hymn on Gratitude, aJetuafuWHEN all thy Mercies, O my GodSoul furveys;ITranlported with the View, I’m loftIn Wonder, Love, and Praiie ^lO how (hall Words with equal WarmthThe Gratitude declare,IThat glows within my ravifh’d Heart ?But thou canft read it there.Thy Providence my Life fuftain’d.And all my Wants redrefl.When in the filent Womb I lay,And hung upon the Breaft.iTo all mv weak Complaints and Cries,Thy Mercy lent an Ear,:Ere yet my feeble Thoughts had learntTo form themfelves in Pray’r.jiUnnumber'd Comforts to my SoulThy lender Care beftow’d,i Before my infant Heart conceiv’dj From whom thofe Comforts flow’d.When in the flipp’ry Paths of Youthi With heedlcfs Steps I ran,■ti [Thin Ann tmfeen convey’d me fafe,' And led me up to Man jVx*X( 24 )^ Through hidden D ingers, Toils, and DealIr gently clear’d my VVay,And through the pleafing Snares of VicMore to be fear’d than they.^ When worn with Sicknefs oft haft thouWith Health renew’d my Face,And when in Sins and Sorrows funkReviv’d my Soul with Grace.Thy bounteous Hand with worldly BlifsHas made my Cup run o’er.And in a kind and faithful FriendHas doubled all my Store.Ten thouland thoufand precious GiftsM> Daily Thanks employ,Kor is the leaft a chearfui Heart,That tafte thole Gifts with Joy.^ Through every Period of rriy LifeThy Goodnefs* I’ll purfue ;And after Death in diftant WorldsThe glorious Tneme renew.^(When Nature fails, and Day and NightDivide thy Works no more,My ever-grateful Heart, O Lord,Thy Mercy ihall adore.V Through all Eternity to Thee*A joyful Song I’ll raife,caa* oh ! Eternity’s too (hortTo utter all thy Praife.FINIS.Print Hi by C .Milter, Dutu'nPi