THEMERRY TALESOF THEWise Men of Gotham.TO WHICH IS ADDED,A* COLLECTION OF JESTS.Of merry Books this is the chiefIt is a purging Pill,To carry of all heavy Grief,And make you laugh yout fll.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, byK. Hutchison & Co. 10, Saltmarket.tTHEMERRY TALESOFThe Wise Men of Gotham, — tWiii  TALE I.THERE were two men of Gotham,and one of them was going toNottingham market to hny sheep, andthey both met together on Notting¬ham bridge. Well met, said orp to theother; whither are you going? said hethat came from Nottingham. Marry,.said he that was going thither, I amgoing to the market to buy sheep. Buysheep! said the other, which way willyou bring them home? Marry, saidthe other, I will bring them over thisbridge By Robin Hood, said he thatcam.e front Nottingham, but thou shaltnot. By my maid Margery, said theother, but 1 will. You shall not, saidthe one: I will, said the other. Thenthey beat their staves one against theether, and then against the ground, as ifa hundr .1 sheep had been betwixt them.Hold there, said the one. Beware ofmy sheep leaping over the bridge, saidthe other. I care not, said the one.3The Merry Tales, §c.They shall all come this way, said theother. But they shall not, said the one.Then said the other, if thou make muchado, I will put my finger in thy mouth.A turd thou wilt, said the other. Andas they were in contention, another wiseman that belonged to Gotham, camefrom the market with a sack of mealon his horse; and seeing his neighboursat strife about sheep, and none betwixtthem, said he, Ah! fools, will you neverlearn wit! then help me, continued he,to lay this sack upon my shoulder. Thfydid so, and he went to the side of thebridge, and shook out the meal into theriver, saying, How much meal is therein my sack, neighbours? Marry, saidone, none. Indeed, replied this wiseman, even so much wit is there in yourtwo heads, to strive for that you havenot.—Now, which was the wisest ofthese three? I leave you to judge.TALE II.There was a man of Gotham thatrode to the market with two bushels ofwheat, and because his horse should notbe damaged by carrying too great a bur¬den, he was determined to carry thecorn himself upon his own neck, and4The Merry Tales of thestill kept riding upon his horse, till hearrived at the end of his journey. NowI will leave you to judge, which was thewisest, his horse or himself.T A L E III.On a time the men of Gotham fainwould have pinn’d in the cuckow, thatshe might sing all the year; and in themidst of the Town, they had a hedgemade round in compass, and got a cuc¬kow and put her into it, and said, Singhere, and you shall lack neither meatnor drink all the year. i'he cuckovv,when she perceived herself encompassedwithin the hedge, flew away. A venge¬ance on her, said these wise men, wTedid not make our hedge high enough.T ALE' IV.There was a man of Gotham whowent to Nottingham market to sellcheese; and going down the hill to•> Nottingham bridge, one of his cheesesfell out of his wallet, and ran down thehill. Whoreson, said the fello#, what,can you run to the market alone ? I’llnow send one after another. Thenlaying his wallet down, taking out thecheeses, lie tumbled them down the hill,one after another. Some ran into oneJl'ise Men of Gotham. 5bush, and some into another. How¬ever, he charged them to meet him inthe market-phce. The man went to themarket to meet with the cheeses, ardstayed till the market was almost over;then went and enquired at his neigh¬bours, if they saw his cheeses come tothe market? Why, who should bringthem? said one. Marry, thefnse'ves,said the fellow, they knew the way very-well. A vengeance on them, they ranso fast, I was afraid they would runbeyond the market; I am persuaded they-are bv this time almost as far as York. •aSo he immediately rode to York, butwas very much disappointed. And toadd to it, he never found nor heard ofone of his cheeses.TALE V.A Man of Gotham bought at Not¬tingham market*a trevot, or barn-iron;and jgoing home with it, his shouldersgrew weary with the carriage. He setit down, and seeing it had three feet,said. Whoreson, thou hast three feet andI but two, thou sh'alt bear me home, ifthou wilt; so set himself down uponit, and said to it. Bear me as long ar. I have done thee, for if thou dost not.6The Merry Tales of thethou shalt stand still for me. The manof Gotham seeing that his trivot wouldnot move. Stand still, said he, in themayor’s name, and follow me if thouwilt, and I can show you the right way.When he went home, his wife askedhim where the trivot was? He said, ithad three legs, and he had but two, andhe had taught him the ready way to hishouse; therefore he might come him¬self if he would. Where did you leavethe trivot, said the woman? At Gothambridge, said he. So she immediatelyran and fetched the trivot. herself, orotherwise she must certainly have lostit, on account of her husband’s want ofwit.TALE VI.A certain smith of Gotham had alarge wasp’s nest in the straw7 at the endof his forge; and there coming one ofhis neighbours to have his horse shod,and the wasps being exceeding busy,the man was stung by one ot them.The man being grievously affronted,said. Are you worthy to keep a forgeor not, to have men stung with thesewasps? O! neighbour, said the smith,be content, and I shall put them fromiTise Men of Gotham. 7their nest presently. Immediately hetook a coulter, and heated it red hot,and thrust it into the straw at the endof his forge, and set it on fire, and burntit up. Then said the smith, I told theeI’d fire them out of their nest.TALE VII.On Good-Friday, the men of Go¬tham consulted together what to dowith their white-herrings, sprats, andsalt-fish, and agreed that all such fishshould be cast into the pond or pool, inthe midst of the town, that the num¬ber of them might increase against thenext year. Therefore every one, that,had any fish -left, did cast them imme¬diately into the pond. Then said one,I have gotten so many red-herrings.Well, said another, and I have left somany whittings. Another immediatelycried out, I have as yet gotten so manysprats left. And, said the last, I havegotten so many salt fishes, let them gotogether in the great pond without anydistinction, and we may be sure to farelike lords the next year. At the be¬ginning of the next Lent, they imme¬diately went about drawing the pond,imagining they should have the fish;8 . The Merry Talesj)f thebut were much surprisedf' to find no¬thing but a great eel. Ah! said they,a mischief on this eel, for he hath eatenup our fish. \Vhat must we do withhim, said one to the other; kill him,said one; chop him in pieces, said an¬other. Nay, not so, said the other, butlet us drown him. Be it accordinglyso, replied ;hey all. So they immedi¬ately went to another pond, and castthe eel into the water. Lie there, saidthese wise men, and shift for thyself,since you may not expect any help fromus. So they left the eel to be drowned.TALE VIII.On a time the men.of Gotham hadforgotten to pay their rents to theirlandlord. So one said to the other. To¬morrow. must be pay-day, by whomrcan we send our money to our land¬lord ? Said one of them, I have thisday taken a hare, and he may carry it,for he is very quick-footed; be it so,replied the rest; he shall have a letter,and a large purse to put our moneyin, and we can direct him the readyway. When the letter was w’ritten, andthe money put into a purse, they im¬mediately tied them about the hare’s97rise Men of Gotham.neck, saying, You must first go toLoughborough, and then to Leicester,and at Newark is our landlord; thencommend us unto him, and there is hisdue. The hare, as soon as he got outof their hands, ran a quite contrary way.Some said, thou must first go to Lough¬borough; others said, let the hare alone,for he tan tell a nearer way than thebest of m; let him go.T ALE IX.A man of Gotham that went mow¬ing in the meadow found a largegrasshopper. He immediately threwdown hi scythe, and ran home to hisneign hours, and said. That the devilwas ttn re i the field, and was hoppingamongst the glass. Then was everyman ready, with their clubs and staves,halberts and other weapons, to kill thegrasshopper. When they came almostto the place where the grasshoper was,said one to the other, let e$ery onecross himself from the devil, for wewill not meddle with him; so they re¬turned again, and said, wc were blestthis day that we went no farther. Oye cowards, said he that left his scythein the meadow, help me to fetch my10 The Merry Tales of thescythe. No, answered they, it is goodto sleep in a whole skin. It is muchbetter for thee to lose thy scythe, thanto marr us all.TALE X.Ox a certain time there were twelvemen of Gotham that went to fish; andsome waded in the water, and somestood on dry land. And in going homeone said to the other, we have venturedwonderfully in wading, I pray God,that none of us did come from hometo be drowned. Nay, marry, said oneto the other, let us see that, for theredid twelve of us come out. Then theytold themselves, and every one toldeleven. Said the one to the other,there is one of us drowned. Theywent back to the brook where they hadbeen fishing, and sought up and downfor him that was drowned, making' great lamentation. A courtier comingbY> asked •what it w'as they sought for, ’and why they were sorrowful? Oh!said they, this day we u'ent to fish inthe brook 4 twelve of us came out to¬gether, and one is drowned. Said thecourtier, tell how many there be of you.One of them said eleven; but he didIIWise Men of Gotham.not count hiir self. Well, said the cour-rier, vvhtt will you give me, and I willfind the twelfth man? Sir, said they,all the money we have got. Give methe money, said he; he then began withthe first, and gave him a stroke overthe shoulders with his whip, whichmade him groan, saying, Here is one,and so he served them all, and theygroaned at the matter. When he cameto the last, he paid him well, saying.Here is the twelfth man; God’s blessingon thy heart, said they, for fihuing ourbrother.TALE XI.A man of Gotham riding along thehigh-way, saw a cheese, so drew hissword and pricked it with the point,in order to pick it up. Another mancame by and alighted, and picked it up,and rode away with it. The man ofGotham rides back to Nottingham tobuy a long sword to pick up the cheese;and returning to the place where thecheese did lie, he pulled out his sword,pricking the ground, and said. If I hadhad but this swmrd, I should have hadthe cheese myself, but now another hasgot it.1?/T' Merry Tales of theTALE XU.A raan in Gotham that did not lovehis wife, and she having fair hair, herhusK-rd said, divers times, he wouldcu: it off, but durst not do it whenshe was awake, so he resolved to do itwhen she w'as asleep; therefore onere.;f t he took up a pair of sheers, andput them under his pillow; which hiswife perceiving, said to one of herm ins. to bed to my husband, forhe intends to cut off my hair to-night,lei him cut off thy hair, and I willgive thee as good a kirtle as ever thoudidst .'CC The maid did so, and feignedherself ..sleep, which the man perceiv¬ing, cut off the maid’s hair, and wrap¬ped k about the shears, and laid themunder the pillow,^ and went to sleep:the maid arose, and the wife took thehair and sheers, and went to the hall,and there burned the hair. The manhad a fine horse that he loved much,and the good wife went into the stable,cut off the horse’s tail, wrapped thesheers up in it, and then laid them underthe pillow again. Her huiband seeingher combing her head in the morning,marvelled very much thereat. The13Wise Men of Gotham.girl seeing her master in a deep study,said, What the devil ails the •hcvse inthe stable? He bleeds prodigiously.The man ran into the stable, ai d foundthe horse’s tail v\as cut ch ..then goingto his bed, he found the shetrs v rappedup in liis horse’s tail then went tohis wife, saying, I crave tay mercy, for1 in'ended to cut off hy hair, but havecut off my own horse’s tad V a, saidshe, seif-do, self-have. Many men l inkto to a bad 'urn, but it turneth oft-timesto themselves.1 A L E XIII.A man of Gotham laid his wife awager, that she could not make him acuckold. Noi said she, but-I can. Donot spare me, said he, but do what youcan. On a time she had hid all thespiggots and fausets, and going intothe buttery, set the barrel a broach, andcried to her spouse. Pray bring me a.spiggot and fauset, or else the ale willall run out. He sought up and down,but could not find one. "Come herethen, said she, and put thy finger inthe tap-hole. Then she called a taylorwith whom she had made a bargain.Soon after, she came to her husband.14 The Merry Tales of theand brought a spiggot and fauset, say¬ing, Pull thy finger out of the tap-hole,good cuckold. Beshrew your heart foryour trouble, said he, make no suchbargain with me again.T A L'E XIV.A man of Gotham took a youngbuzzard, and invited four or five gen¬tlemen’s servants to the -eating of it;but the old wife killed an old goose,and she and two of her gossips ate upthe buzzard, and the old goose waslaid to the fire for the gentlemen’s ser¬vants. So when they came, the goosewas set before them. What is this, saidone of them? The goodman said, A cu¬rious buzzard. A buzzard! said they,why ’tis an old goose, and thou art aknave to mock us, and so in great an¬ger departed home. The fellow wasvery sorry that he had affronted them,and took a bag and put the buzzard'sfeathers in it; but his wife desired himbefore he went, to fetch a block of wood,and in the interim she pulled out thebuzzard’s feathers,and put in the goose’s.Then the man taking the bag, went tothe gentleman’s servants, and said, Praybe not angry with me, you shall see I15JVise Men of Gotham.had a buzzard, for here be the feathers.Then he opened the bag and took outthe goose’s feathers. Upon which oneof them took a cudgel, and gave hima dozen of stripes, saying, Why youknave, could you not be content tomuch us at home? but are ye come hereto mock us?TALE XV.A man’s wife of Gotham was deliv¬ered of a male child, and the fatherinvited the gossips, which were chil¬dren of eight or ten years of age. Theeldest child’s name was Gilbert, thesecond’s name was Humphrey, and thegodmother’s name wasChristibel. Theirrelations admonished them divers times,that they must all say after the Parson.And when they were all come to thechurch, the Priest said. Be you all a-greedof the name? Gilbert, Humphrey,and Christibel, said they all. The Priestthen said, Wherefore came you'hither?They immediately said the same. ThePriest being Amazed, could not tellwhat to say, but whistled and said.Whey, and so did they. The Priestbeing angry, said, Go home fools, gohome. Then Gilbert, Humphrey, and16 The Merry Tales of theChriskbel, did the same. The Priest -then provided godfathers and god¬mothers himself.Here a man may see, that childrencan do nothing without good'instruc- ]tions, and that they are not wise who :disregard them.T ALE XVI.A young man of Gotham wont awooing to a fair maiden; his mother :warned him beforehand, saying, when¬ever you look at her, cas’ a sheep’s eyeat her, and say| How dost thou, mysweet Pigsnie? The fellow went to abutcher’s, and bought seven or ghtsheep’s eyes. And when this lustywooer was at dinner, he would lookupon this fair wench, and cast in herface a sheep’s eye, saying, How dostthou do, my sweet Pigsnie ? How Ido, said the wench, swine’s-face, whatdo you mean, by casting a sheep’s eyeat rue? Oh! sweet Pigsnie, have atthee with another. But I defy thee,swine’s-face, sard'the wench. Whatmy sweet old Pigsnie, be content, forif you live till next year, you will be afoul sow. Walk, knave, walk, said she,for if you live till the next year ye will ■be a fool.17JVise Men of Gotham.T ALE XVII.There was a man of Gotham whowould be married, and when the dayof marriage was come they went tochurch. The priest said, Do you sayafter me. The man said. Do you sayafter me. The priest said, Say not alterme such words, but say what 1 tell you;thou dost play the fool to mock theholy Scripture concerning matrimony.Then the fellow said. Thou dost playthe fool to mock the holy Scriptureconcerning matrimony. The priestcould not tell what to say, but answer¬ed,. What shall I do with this fool ?And the man said, What shall I do withthis fool ? So the priest took his leave,and would not marry them. But hewas instructed by others how to do,and was afterwards married. And thusthe breed of the’ Gothairrites has beenperpetuated even unto this day.T ALE XVIILThere was a Scotsman who dweltat Gotham, and he took a house a lit¬tle distance from London, and turned itinto an inn; and for his sign he wouldhave a boar’s head. Accordingly hewent to a carver, and said, Can you18The 'Mei'ry Talcs of themake me a bare-head ? Yes, said thecarver, Then, said he, make me a bare-head, and thou’se have StOd. for thyhire. I. will do it, said the career. Soon St. Andrew’s day, before Christmas,the which is called Yule in Scotland,the Scot came to London for his boar’shead to set up at his door; I say to thee,speak, said the Scotsman, hast thoumade me a bare-head? Yes, said thecarver. He went and brought a man’shead of wood that was bare, and said.Sir, here is your bare-head. Ay, saidthe Scot, The meikle de’il! is this abare-head! Yes, said the carver. Isay,said the Scotsman, I will have a bare-head like a head that follows the sowthat has gryces. Sir, said the carver,I don’t know a sow and gryces. What,whoreson, know you not a sow’ thatwill greet and groan, and cry, a week,a week. What, said the carver ? doyou mean a pig? Yes, said the Scots¬man, let me have her head made intimber, and set on her scalp, and let hersing whip whire. The carver said, hecould not. jTou whoreson, said he, garher as she’d sing, whip whire. Thisshews that all men delight in their fancy.10Wise Men of Gotham.TALE XIX.In old times, during these tales, thewives of Gotham were got into an ale¬house, and said. They weie all profit¬able to their husbands. Which way,good gossips, said the ale-wite? Thefirst said, I will tell you all, good gos¬sips; I cannot brew nor bake, there¬fore I am every day alike; and go tothe ale-house, because I cannot go tothe church; and in the ale-house I prayto God, to speed my husband, and Iam' sure my prayers will do him moregood than my labour. Then said thesecond, I am profitable to my husband,in saving of candle in winter, for Icause my husband and all my peopleto go to bed by day-light, and rise byday-light. The third said, I am profit¬able in sparing bread, for I drink agallon of ale, I care not much for meat.The fourth said, I am loth to spendmeat and drink at home, so I go tothe tavern at Nottingham, and drinkwine, and such other things as Godsends me there. The fifth said, A manwill ever have more company in ano¬ther’s house than his own, and mostcommonly in the ale-house. The sixth20The Merry Talcs of thesaid, My husband has ilax and wool tospare, if I go to other folk’s houses to dotheir work. The seventh said, I spareboth tny husband’s wood and clothes,and sit talking all the day at otherz folk’s lire. The eighth said. Beef, mut¬ton, and pork are dear. I therefore takepigs, chickens, conies, and capons, be¬ing of a lesser price. The ninth said,I spare my husband’s soap, for insteadof washing once a-week, I wash butonce a quarter. Then said the ale-wife,I keep all my husband’s ale I brewfrom souring; for as I wont to drinkit almost up, now I leave never a drop.T A L E XX.On Ash Wednesday, the minister ofGotham would have a collection fromhis parishioners; and said unto them.My friends, the fime is come that youmust use praydr, fasting, and alms, butcome ye to shrift, I will tell you moreof my mind. But as for prayer, l don’tthink that two men in the parish cansay their Pater-noster. As for fasting,ye fast still, for ye have net a goodmeal’s meat in the year. As for alms- (deeds, what should they give that havenothing? In Lent, vou must refrain21H he Men of Gcthcnn.from drunkenness, and abstain fromdrink. .No, not so, said one felloe, forit is an old proverb, ‘ That fish should‘ swim.’ Yes, said the priest, it mustswim in the water. I crave yuur mer¬cy, quoth the fellow, I thought itshould liave swam in fine ale, for Ihave been told so. Soon after the menof Gotham came to shrift, and beingseven in number, the priest knew notwhat penance to give them. He said,If I enjoin you to pray, you cannotsay your Pater-noster. And it is butfolly to make you fast, because younever eat a good meal’s meat. Labourhard, and get a good dinner on Sun¬day, and I will partake of it, anotherman he enjoined to fare well on Mon.day, and another on Tuesday, and oneafter another, that one or other shouldfare well once in the week, that hemight have part of their meat. Andas for alms-deeds, the Priest said, Yebe but beggars, all except one or two,therefore bestow your alms on your¬selves.An Irishman being asked, whetherhe or his brother wefe oldest? I am22 • A Collection of Jests.oldest, said he, but if my brother livethree years longer, we shall be both ofone age.An Irish servant being struck by hismaster, cried out. Devil take me, if Iam certain whether he has kill’d me ornot; but if I am dead, it will afford megreat satisfaction to hear the old roguewas hanged for killing me.A deaf fellow coming to London tosell a turkey, at Hyde-park Corner, hadoccasion to untruss a point; a gentle¬man passing by ^intended to put a jokeupon him; Countryman, said he, there'sa turd under you; the man thinking heasked the price of his turkey, said, Fourshillings, master. I say, there’s a turdunder you, said the other. It is as goodas ever you ate in your life, said the fel-,low, either baked or roasted. You ras¬cal, said he, I could find in my heart tokick you soundly. Come chuse, saysthe fellow, for if you won’t anotherwill.One being at his wife's funeral, andthe bearers going pretty quick along,he cried out to them, Don’t go so fast,wrhat need we make a toil of a pleasure.Two Irishmen, walking together inA Collection of Jests. 23the fields, were at length hemmed inby a great ditch, which when theyperceived, quoth one of them, we mustgo back again, for the ditch is too bigfor us to jump over; nay, quoth theother, I protest I’ll jump over, thoughI light in the middle.A number of French gentlemen, din¬ing at a tavern in Germany, the maid,as she took out the dishes, let a rousingfart; and her mistress scolding her se-.verely for doing such a. thing in hear¬ing of the guests; Pshaw, madam, saysshe, you don’t consider that they are allFrench people, and don’t understandGerman.In Admiral Hawke’s last engage-ment with the French, a sailor on boardone of the ships, had a leg shot off,whereupon one of his mess-mates tookhim down to-the surgeon, and took hisleg off the deck, and put under hisarm; he- was no sooner brought down,but another of his mess-mates beganshaking his head, and telling him, hewas very sorry he had lost a leg. Thatis a damn’d lie, you son of a b—h, re¬plied he, for I’ve got it under myarm.£4-A CoiLction <if Jests.At Dean SVift was crossing-t he’ferryat Dublin, turuirg hirnsdf from thepassengers in the stern of die boat, ask»ed a poor man near him, Well, friend,what profession are you oil? I am a tay-jor. Sir, answered the other, not'know¬ing the Dean. Are you married? saidSwift. Yes, Sir, replied the t^ylor. And■who wears the breeches? said die Dean.My a—se, answered the-'Other.A gentleman one day gave his ser¬vant a kick on the bi eech, upon which,the fejlow let a rousing f—t, his ma terwas horribly offended, but the servantsaid. Why, Sir, would you, knock at adoor and have no body answer you.An Irishman at Chester, upon en¬quiring at his landlord how he couldget to London, and being told he mightgo in the Waggon, he replied, No, ho-,ney, that won’t do, I -am always sea¬sick when I ride in a waggon.A Schoolmaster asking one of hisboys in a cold winter morning, whatwas Latin for cold; the boy hesitateda little——-What, sirrah, said he, can’tyou tell? Yes, yes, cried the boy, I haveit at my finger-ends. v ‘ ,PIN! S'