NEW AND IMPBOVED SEBIESNo. 3.CONTAININGA Choice Selection ofAMUSING AND ENTERTAINING STORIES.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS1850.OF SCOTLAND 'ijOlN B UnCONTENTS.Prince Lupin and the White Cat,The Yellow Dwarf, The Three Wishes Puss in Boots,   The Three Beggars, The Soldier’s Wife, Jack Easy, fiGI11.13.17.21.23THE STORY TELLER.PRINCE LUPIN AND THE WHITE CAT.A certain king had three sons, all handsome, brave, andfine young gentlemen; hut being suspicious that they hadformed a design to deprive him of his crown, he thought of amethod to divert them from their intended purpose. HavingI called them one day into his closet, he spoke to them as fol¬lows :—“ My sons, I am now come to a great age, and cannotapply myself to public affairs with so much care as formerly ;therefore, I intend to resign my crown to one of you; but, asit is but right to require some proof of your abilities, in orderto determine which is the most worthy of so valuable a pre¬sent, I propose and promise, that he who shall bring me themost beautiful little dog shall immediately take possession ofmy throne.”The three princes readily agreed to this proposal, each con¬cluding himself most likely to succeed in fulfilling this extra¬ordinary request. After taking leave of the king, they set out,with orders to return that day twelvemonth with dogs. Eachtook a different road, without any attendants; but we shallleave the two eldest at present, and confine our story to the[youngest.This accomplished prince, as he was more desirous to showhis duty to his father than to become a king, was more fortu¬nate in his undertaking than either of the others. One night,having travelled till it was very late, and being overtaken bya storm in a large forest, he discovered a light at a distance,and, pursuing his journey with all speed, he arrived at a moststately castle, the gates of which were of massy gold, and thewalls of fine china, whereon were painted the histories of allthe fairies that ever appeared on earth. At the door hung achain of diamonds, with a deer’s foot at the end ; on pulling4which, the prince heard a bell of so pleasing a sound, that he 'concluded it to be made of gold or silver. Immediately the |door opened, and twelve hands, each holding a flambeau, ;gently conducted him into a hall of mother-of-pearl, and from 1thence through a vast variety of chambers, all richly coveredwith paintings and jewels. The beauty of these ornamentswas greatly heightened by a number of lights that hung fromthe ceiling in glass sconces of exquisite workmanship.After having passed through sixty apartments, a fine easy ■chair moved towards him of its own accord; the fire lighteditself, and the hands pulled off his clothes, which had beendrenched in the storm, and dressed him in others so extraor¬dinarily fine and rich, that it dazzled his sight to behold him¬self. While the prince was in the utmost astonishment atthis uncommon adventure, ho sawr a multitude of cats enterthe room, and seat themselves on the bench. One held amusic-book, and some played on instruments, while othersbeat time. In the midst of this concert, a small figure came jforward in a mourning veil, led by two cats in black cloaks,and followed brr a long train of cats, some with rats, and otherswith mice, in their mouths. The young prince was so sur¬prised that he had not power to move ; when the little figure,lifting up its veil, discovered the prettiest white cat that everwas seen. “ Prince,” said she, “be not afraid, but give meyour company with cheerfulness. It shall be the ambition of;ne and all my mewing attendants to give you pleasure.”.On a signal given, supper was brought lit; but the princeat first declined eating, till the White Cat, guessing the rea¬son, assured him that there were no rats nor mice in any thingthat was set before him. As the prince was admiring this(beautiful cat. he observed a small picture hanging upon herfoot. He asked her to show it him ; and how great was hissurprise to see a charming young man very much resemblinghimself! Yet, observing the White Cat to sigh, he was afraidat that time to satisfy his curiosity concerning it, and so en¬deavoured to divert her by entertaining conversation, in whichhe found her to be extremely sensible, and acquainted withevery thing that passed in the world. He slept every nightin an apartment hung with tapestry made of the wings of but¬terflies, on a bed of the most delicious flowers, and every daywas spent in the most delightful amusement. In this manneralmost a year slipped away insensibly; and the prince entirelyforgot his native home and the little dog he was to carry tohis father. But the White Cat knew when he was to return ;and one day, as they were walking together in a grove nearthe palace, “Ho you remember, prince,” said she, “the pro- ,mise you made your father? Your brothers have alreadyprocured some curious little dogs, and there remain but threedays for you to find one more beautiful, or lose a kingdom.”These words awoke the prince from his dream of pleasure.“ Alas !” cried he, “ what have I been doing? My honour islost for ever.” “ Do not afflict yourself,” said the White Cat,“ I will find a horse that will cany you home in less thantwelve hours. And as for the little dog, take this acorn, inwhich there is one; put it to your ear and you will hear itbark.” The prince did so, and, transported with pleasure,thanked her a thousand times. Bidding her farewell, hemounted the wooden horse, and arrived at his father’s palacejust as his brothers entered the court-yard. lie ran to em¬brace them, and all three went together to the king. The twoeldest presented their dogs, which were so equally beautifulthat it was impossible to know in whose favour to determine.But the youngest soon put an end to the debate; for, pullingthe acorn out of his pocket and opening it, they saw a littledog lying on cotton, so small that it might go through a ring;i it was of a mixture of colours, and its ears reached theground. The king was convinced that nothing could be metwith so beautiful; but, being unwilling yet to part with hiscrown, he told his children, that he must make a further trialof their love and diligence before he performed his promise;they must take another year to find out a web of cloth fineenough to go through the eye of a small needle.This request, though unjust, they thought it best to complywith ; and our prince mounted his wooden horse, and returnedwith speed to his White Cat, on which alone he depended forassistance. He found her laid on a quilt of white satin. Assoon as she saw him, she expressed the utmost joy ; while theprince caressed her in the most tender manner, and told herthe success of his journey. The White Cat redoubled herj efforts to render the prince more happy, if possible, than he, had been before. The instant he wished for anything the hands■ brought it to him ; and the second year rolled away so fast,that the prince would again have forgot his orders, had notthe White Cat reminded him thereof: “ But make yourself■ perfectly easy concerning the web,” said she, “ for I have onewonderfully fine. Take this walnut; be sure to crack it inyour father’s presence, and you will find in it such a web asyou want.”The prince thanked her in the most grateful manner ; andwas presently carried by the wooden horse to his father’s pa¬lace, where his brothers had got before him. They pulled out|| their webs, which were exceeding fine, and would go throughGthe eye of a large needle, but could not be made to passthrough the eye of a small one. The king was going to availhimself of this pretext, when the youngest prince unexpect¬edly entered, an 1 produced a walnut, which he cracked.Finding only a kernel of wax, the king and all present ridi¬culed him for thinking to find a web of cloth in a nut. How¬ever, he broke the kernel, and saw in it a corn of wheat, andin that a grain of millet-seed ; he then opened the millet-seed,and, to the utter astonishment and confusion of all the be¬holders, drew out a web of cloth four hundred yards long.The needle was brought, and the web was put through theeye of it five or six times with the greatest ease.The king fetched a deep sigh, and turning towards his sons,“ My children,” said he, “ I am still desirous of putting you toa new trial: go for another year; and he that brings me themost beautiful damsel shall marry her and be crowned king ;and I swear most solemnly, that I will require no other proofof your filial affection and discretion.” Our sweet princeheard this tyrannic command without a murmur; and, re¬mounting his courser, flew to his dear White Cat; which,knowing the moment of his return, was prepared to receivehim in the golden gallery. “Prince,” said she, “the king, Ifind has refused you the crown; however, I hope you will takecare to deserve it, and I will provide you with a beautiful dam¬sel who will gain the prize.”The prince grew more and more fond of her; and in herabode enjoyed every magnificent entertainment that fancycould invent. When this last year was near expired, theWhite Cat thus addressed him:—“ If you are sensible of the 'favours I have conferred upon you, now is the time to makeme amends. Do not hesitate, but cut off my head and tail,and throw them into the fire.” Tears started from the prince’seyes at this request, and he was going several times to refuse;but the White Cat insisted upon it so earnestly, that at last,with a trembling hand, he chopped off her head and tail, andthrew them according to order into the fire. In an instantthe body of the White Cat was changed into the most beauti¬ful lady that ever was seen, and immediately a great numberof gentlemen and ladies, holding their cats’ skins over theirshoulders, came and fell prostrate at her feet, crying, “ Longlive our gracious queen ! How great is our joy to see heronce more in her natural shape 1” The prince was glad be¬yond description to behold so charming a creature, but couldnot help expressing an earnest desire to know' the cause ofthis surprising transformation. “ Restrain your curiosity,”says the lovely queen, “ till we arrive at your father’s court,where I am now ready to accompany you, and where I willrelate my unheard-of misfortunes. Come, see, the carriagewaits.” So saying, she gave her hand to the prince, who ledher into a chariot, the inside of which was fine velvet, set withbrilliants, the outside gold ; and the horses’ harness was madeof emeralds.Away they flew, and were presently at the gates of theking’s palace, where the two eldest princes were alreadyarrived with their two princesses, in fine calashes of blue, em¬bossed with gold. The courtiers crowded to present thesethree illustrious couples to the king. The two eldest princeswith their ladies advanced first, and were received very gra¬ciously by the monarch, who declared they had brought himtwo such beauties, that he knew not to which he should givethe preference; but the moment the youngest approached withi his queen, both full of grace and dignity, the king cried out inecstacy, “ This is the incomparable beauty, whose worth andi excellence claims and deserves my crown 1” “ I came not toi rob you of your crown,” answered the discreet queen ; “ I was1 born heiress to six kingdoms. Give me leave to presentone of them to you, and one to each of your sons; for whichI ask no other return than this amiable prince in marriage.”The king and all the court were struck with joy at this de¬claration ; and the nuptials were celebrated the same day withgreat magnificence. Never were a pair more happy ; and theyoung prince, to the last moment of his life, blessed the ac¬cident that led him to the abode of the sweet White Cat.THE YELLOW DWARF.There was once a queen, who, though she had borne manychildren, had but one daughter left alive, of whom she wasfond to an excess, humouring and indulging her in all her waysand wishes. This princess was exceedingly beautiful, so that sheI was called All-Fair, and had twenty kings courting her at onetime. Her mother, being advanced in years, would fain havehad her married and settled before she died, but no entreatiesI could prevail; whereupon she determined to go to the DesertFairy to ask advice concerning her stubborn daughter.Now, this fairy being guarded by two fierce lions, the queenmade a cake of millet, sugar candy, and crocodiles’ eggs, inorder to appease their fury and pass by them ; and havingthus provided herself, she set out. After travelling some time,she found herself weary, and lying down under a tree, fell9asleep. "When slie awoke, she heard the lions which guardedthe fairy roaring, upon which, looking for her cake, she foundit was gone. This threw her into the utmost agony, not know¬ing how to save herself from being devoured by them ; when,hearing somebody cry, Hem ! hem !” she lifted up her eyes,and beheld a little yellow man on a tree, balf-a-yard high,picking and eating oranges.“ Ah ! queen,” said the Yellow Dwarf, (for so he was calledon account of his complexion, and the orange tree he lived in),“ how will you escape the lions ? There is but one way. Iknow what business brought you here ! promise me yourdaughter in marriage, and I will save you.” The queen,though she could not but look upon so frightful a figure withhorror, yet was forced to consent; whereupon she instantlyfound herself in her own palace, and all that had passed seemedonly as a dream ; nevertheless, she was so thoroughly per¬suaded of the reality of it, that she became melancholy.The young princess being unable to learn the cause of herdejection, resolved to go and inquire of the Desert Fairy; and,accordingly, having prepared a cake for the lions, she also setoff for her abode. It happened that All-Fair took exactly thesame route her mother had done before her; and coming tothe fatal tree, which was loaded with oranges, she had a mindto pick some ; therefore, setting down her basket, wherein shecarried the cake, she plentifully indulged herself. The lionsnow began to roar, when All-Fair, looking for her cake, wasthrown into the utmost trouble on finding it gone. As shewas lamenting her deplorable situation, the Yellow Dwarf pre¬sented himself to her with these words :—“ Lovely princess,dry up your tears, and hear what I am going to say. Youneed not proceed to the Desert Fairy to know the reason ofyour mother’s indisposition, she is ungenerous enough to re¬pent of having promised you, her adorable daughter, to meinmarriage.” “How 1” interrupted the princess, “my motherpromised me to you in marriage ! you ! such a fright as you!”“ Nay, none of your scoffs,” returned the Yellow Dwarf, “Iwish you not to stir up my anger. If you will promise tomarry me, I will be the tenderest and most loving husband inthe world ; if not, save yourself from the lions if you can.” Inshort, the princess was forced to give her word that she wouldhave him, but with such agony of mind that she fell into aswoon ; and when she recovered, she found herself in her ownbed, finely adorned with ribbons, and a ring of a single redhair so fastened round her finger that it could not be got off.This adventure had the same effect upon All-Fair asthe former had upon her mother. She grew melancholy,9which was remarked and wondered at by the whole court.The best way to divert her, they thought, would he tourge her to marry ; which the princess, who was now be¬come less obstinate on that point than formerly, consentedto; and thinking that such a pigmy as the Yellow Dwarfwould not dare to contend with so gallant a person as theKing of the Golden Mines, she fixed upon this king for herhusband, who was exceedingly rich and powerful, and lovedher to distraction. The most superb preparations were madofor the nuptials, and the happy day was fixed; when, as theywere proceeding to the ceremony, they saw moving towardsthem a box, whereon sat an old woman remarkable for herugliness. “ Hold, queen and princess,” cried she, knitting herbrows, “remember the promises you both made to my friendthe Yellow Dwarf. I am the Desert Fairy, and if All-Fairdoes not marry him, I swear by my coif, I will burn mycrutch.” The queen and princess were struck motionless bythis unexpected greeting of the Fairy ; but the Prince of theGolden Mines was exceedingly wroth ; and, holding his swordto her throat, “ Fly, wretch !” said he, “ or thy malice shallcost thee thy life.” No sooner had he uttered these words,than the top of the box flying off, out came the Yellow Dwarf,mounted upon a large Spanish cat, who placing himself be¬tween the king and the fairy, uttered these words :—“ Rashyouth, thy rage should he levelled at me, not at the DesertFairy. I am thy rival, and claim her by promise, andasinglehair round her finger.”This so enraged the king, that he cried out, “ Contemptiblecreature ! wert thou worthy of notice, I would sacrifice theefor thy presumption.” Whereupon the Yellow Dwarf clappingspurs to his cat. and drawing a large cutlass, defied the kingto combat; and so they went into the court-yard. The sunthen immediately turned red ns blood, and it became dark;thunder and lightning followed, by the flashes whereof wereperceived two giants vomiting fire on each side of the YellowDwarf.The king behaved with such undaunted courage as to givethe Dwarf great perplexity ; but was dismayed when he sawthe Desert Fairy, mounted on a winged griffin, with her headcovered with snakes, strike the princess so hard with a lancethat she fell into the queen’s arms all over with blood. Heleft the combat to go to her relief; but the dwarf was tooquick for him, and, flying on his Spanish cat to the balconywhere she was, he took her from her mother’s arms, leapedwith her upon the top of the palace, and immediately disap¬peared.210As the king stood confused and astonished at this strangeadventure, he suddenly found a mist before his eyes, and him¬self lifted up in the air by some extraordinary power; for theDesert Fairy had fallen in love with him. To secure him forherself, therefore, she carried him to a frightful cavern, hoping !he would there forget All-Fair, and tried many artifices tocomplete her designs. But finding this scheme ineffectual,she resolved to carry him to a place altogether as pleasant asthe other was terrible ; and accordingly set him by herself ina chariot drawn by swans. In passing through the air, he hadthe unspeakable surprise to see his adored princess in a castleof polished steel, leaning her head on one hand, and wipingaway the tears with the other. She happened to look up, andhad the mortification to see the king sitting by the fairy, whothen, by her art, made herself appear extremely beautiful.Had not the king been sensible of the fairy’s power, he would .certainly then have tried to free himself from her. At lastthey came to a stately palace, fenced on one side by walls ofemeralds, and on the other by a boisterous sea.The king, by pretending to be in love with the fairy, ob¬tained liberty to walk by himself on the shore ; and, as he wasone day invoking the powers of the sea, he heard a voice, andpresent!}- after was surprised with the appearance of a Mer- ■maid, which, coming up with a pleasant smile, spoke thesewords :—“ O King of the Golden Mines, I wrell know all thathas passed in regard to you and the fair princess. Don’t sus¬pect this to be a contrivance of the fairy’s to try you, fori aman inveterate enemy both to her and the Yellow Dwarf;therefore, if you will have confidence in me, I will lend you <my assistance to procure the release not only of yourself, butof All-Fair also.” The overjoyed king promised to do what¬ever the Mermaid bade him; whereupon, setting him uponher tail, they sailed away on a rolling sea.When they had sailed some time, “ Now,” said the Mermaidto the king, “ we draw near the palace where your princess iskept by the Yellow Dwarf. You will have many enemies to fightbefore you can come to her; take, therefore, this sword, withwhich you may overcome every thing, provided you never letit go out of your hand.” The king returned her all the thanksthat the most grateful heart could suggest; and the Mermaidlanded and took leave of him, promising him farther assistance 'when necessary.The king boldly advanced, and meeting with two terriblesphinxes, laid them dead at his feet with his sword. Next heattacked six dragons that opposed him, and despatched themalso. Then he met with four-and-twenty nymphs, with gar-11lands of flowers, at sight of whom lie stopped, being loath todestroy so much beauty ; when he heard a voice say, “ Strike!strike ! or you will lose your princess for ever 1” upon whichhe threw himself in the midst of them, and soon dispersedthem. He now came in view of All-h'air, and, hastening toher, exclaimed, “ O my princess, behold your faithful lover 1”But she, drawing back, replied, “Faithful lover ! Did I notsee you passing through the air with a beautiful nymph ?Were you faithful then ?” “ Yes,” replied the king, “ I was.That was the detested Desert Fairy, who was carrying me toa place where I must have languished out all my days, had itnot been for a kind Mermaid, by whose assistance it is that Iam now come to release you.” So saying, he cast himself ather feet; but, catching hold of her gown, unfortunately letgo the magic sword ; which the Yellow Dwarf no sooner dis¬covered, than, leaping from behind a shrub where he had beenconcealed, he ran and seized it. By two cabalistical words,he then conjured up two giants, who laid the king in irons.“ Now,” said the dwarf, “my rival’s fate is in my own hands ;however, if he will consent to my marriage, he shall have hislife and liberty.” “ No,” said the king, “ I scorn thy favouron such terms which so provoked the dwarf, that he in¬stantly stabbed him to the heart. The disconsolate princess,aggravated to the last degree at such barbarity, thus ventedher grief:—“ Thou hideous creature, since entreaties couldnot avail thee, perhaps thou now reliest upon force; but thoushalt be disappointed, and thy brutal soul shall know per¬petual mortification from the moment I tell thee I die for thelove I have for the King of the Golden Mines!” And sosaying, she sunk down upon his body, and expired without asigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithful lovers, which theMermaid very much regretted ; but, all her power lying inthe sword, she could only change them into two palm-trees ;which, preserving a constant mutual affection for each, other,caress and unite their branches together.THE THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich, who had a veryl pretty woman to his wife. One winter’s evening, as they satI by the fire, they talked of the happiness of their neighbourswho were richer than they. . Said the wife, “If it were in my| power to have what I wish, I should soon be happier than all12of them.” “ So should I too,” said the husband ; “ I wish wehad fairies now, and that one of them ■was kind enough togrant me what I should ask.” At that instant they saw avery beautiful lady in their room, who said to them, “ I am afairy; and I promise to grant to you the three first things you 'shall wish; but take care—after having wished for three _things, I will not grant one wish further.” The fairy disap¬peared ; and the man and his wife were much perplexed.“For my own part,” said the wife, “if it were left to my •choice, I know very well what I should wish for. I do notwish yet, but I think nothing is so good as to be handsome,rich, and to be of great quality.” But the husband answered,“ With all these things, one may be sick and fretful, and onemay die young; it would be much wiser to wish for health,cheerfulness, and long life.” “But to what purpose is longlife with poverty?” says the wife, “it would only prolong .yonr misery. In truth, the fairy should have promised us adozen of gifts, for there are at least a dozen things which Iwant “That may be true,” said the husband ; “but let us :take time ; let us consider till morning the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.” “I’ll think allnight,” said the wife ; “ meanwhile let us warm ourselves, forit is very cold.” At the same time the wife took the tongs to ■mend the fire ; and seeing there were a great many coalsthoroughly lighted, she said without thinking on it, “ Here’sa nice fire; I wish we had a yard of black pudding for oursupper; we could dress it easily.” She had hardly said these :words, when down came tumbling through the chimney ayard of black pudding. “ Plague on your greedy guts with <your black pudding !” said the husband; “ here’s a fine wish iindeed ! How, we have only two left; for my part I am sovexed that I wish the black pudding fast to the tip of yournose. The man soon perceived that he was sillier than his iwife; for at this second wish, up starts the black pudding,and stuck so fast to the tip of the poor wife’s nose, there wasno means to take it off. “Wretch that I am!” cried she;“ you are a wicked man for wishing the pudding fast to mynose.” “ My dear,” answered the husband, “ I vow I did notthink of it; but what shall we do ? I am about wishing for vastriches, and propose to make a golden case to hide the pud¬ding.” “ Hot at all,” answered the wife; “ for I should killmyself were I to live with this pudding dangling at my nose; jbe persuaded, we have still one wish to make; leave it to me, :or I shall instantly throw myself out of the window.” Withthis she ran and opened the window; but the husband, wholoved his wife, called out, “ Hold, my dear wife ! I give you13leave to wish for what you will.” “ Well,” said the wife, “mywish is that this pudding may drop off.” At that instant thepadding dropped off; and the wife, who did not want wit, saidto her husband, “ The fairy has imposed upon us ; she was inthe right; possibly we should have been more unhappy withriches than we are at present. Believe me, friend, let us wishfor nothing, and take things as it shall please God to sendthem ; in the meantime, let us sup upon our pudding, sincethat’s all that remains to us of our wishes.” The husbandthought his wife judged right; they supped merrily, and nevergave themselves further trouble about the things which theyhad designed to wish for.PUSS IN BOOTS.There was a miller who had three sons, and when he died[ he divided what he possessed among them in the followingj manner He gave his mill to the eldest, his ass to the second,i and his cat to the youngest.Each of the brothers accordingly took what belonged to him| without the help of an attorney, who would soon have broughttheir little fortune to nothing in law expenses.The poor young fellow who had nothing but the cat, com¬plained that he was hardly used : “ My brothers,” said he, “ byjoining their stocks together, may do very well in the world;but for me, when I have eaten my cat, and made a fur-cap ofhis skin, I may soon die of hunger !”The cat, which all this time sat listening just inside the doorof a cupboard, now ventured to come out, and addressed himas follows:—“ Do not thus afflict yourself, my good master; you haveonly to give me a bag, and get a pair of boots made for me,so that I may scamper through the dirt and the brambles,and you shall see that you are not so ill provided for as youimagine.”Though the cat’s master did not much depend upon thesepromises, yet as he had often observed the cunning tricksPuss used to catch rats and mice, such as hanging by thehind-legs, and hiding in the meal to make them believe thathe was dead, he did not entirely despair of his being of someuse to him in his unhappy condition.When the cat had obtained what he asked for, he gaily be¬gan to equip himself; he drew on the boots—and putting thebag about his neck, he took hold of the strings with his fore-14paws, and bidding his master take courage, immediatelysallied forth.The first attempt Puss made was to go into a ■warren, inwhich there was a great number of rabbits. lie put somebran and some parsley into his bag ; and then, stretching him- !self out at full length as if he was dead, he waited for someyoung rabbits, (which as yet knew nothing of the cunningtricks of the world,) to come and get into the bag, the betterto feast upon the dainties he had put into it.Scarcely had he lain down before he succeeded as well ascould be wished. A giddy young rabbit crept into the bag,and the cat immediately drew the strings, and killed himwithout mercy.Puss, proud of his prey, hastened directly to the palace,where he asked to speak to the king. On being shown into •the apartment of his majesty, he made a low bow, and said,— “I have brought you, sire, this rabbit from the warren ofmy lord the marquis of Carabas, who commanded me to pre¬sent it to your majesty with the assurance of his respect.”This was the title the cat thought proper to bestow upon hismaster. “ Tell my lord marquis of Carabas,” replied the king,“ that I accept of his present with pleasure, and that I amgreatly obliged to him.”Soon after the cat laid himself down in the same manner ina field of corn, and had as much good fortune as before ; fortwo fine partridges got into his bag, which he immediatelykilled and carried to the palace. The king received them ashe had done the rabbit, and ordered his servants to give themessenger something to drink. In this manner he continued .to carry presents of game to the king from my lord marquisof Carabas, once at least every week.One day, the cat having heard that the king intended totake a ride that morning by the river side with his daughter, ,who was the most beautiful princess in the world, he said tohis master, “If you will but follow my advice your for¬tune is made. Take off your clothes, and bathe yourself inthe river, just in the place I shall show you, and leave the ,rest to me.”The marquis of Carabas did exactly as he was desired, with¬out being able to guess at what the cat intended. While hewas bathing the king passed by, and Puss directly called outas loud as he could bawl, “ Help ! help ! my lord marquis ofCarabas is in danger of being drowned !” The king hearingthe cries, put his head out at the window of his carriage tosee what was the matter; when, perceiving the very catwhich had brought him so many presents, he ordered his15attendants to go directly to the assistance of my lord marquisof Carabas.While they were employed in taking the marquis out of theriver, the cat ran to the king’s carriage and told his majestythat while his master was bathing some thieves had run offwith his clothes as they lay by the river side, the cunning catall the time having hid them under a large stone.The king hearing this, commanded the officers of his ward¬robe to fetch one of the handsomest suits it contained, andpresent it to my lord marquis of Carabas, at the same time\ loading him with a thousand attentions. As the fine clothesI they brought him made him look like a gentleman, and setoff his person, which was very comely, to the greatest advan-i tage, the king’s daughter was mightily taken with his appear-i ante, and the marquis of Carabas had no sooner cast uponr her two or three respectful glances, than she became violently| in love with him.The king insisted on his getting into the carriage, and tak¬ing a ride with them. The cat, enchanted to see how wellj his scheme was likely to succeed, ran before to a meadow thatwas reaping, and said to the reapers, “ Good people, if you donot tell the king, who will soon pass this way, that the meadowyou are reaping belongs to my lord marquis of Carabas, youshall be chopped as small as minced meat.”The king did not fail to ask the reapers to whom themeadow belonged. “To my lord marquis of Carabas,” saidthey all at once ; for the threats of the cat had terribly fright¬ened them. “ You have here a very fine piece of land, mylord marquis,” said the king. “Truly, sire,” replied he, “itdoes not fail to bring me every year a plentiful harvest.”The cat, which still went on before, now came to a fieldwhere some other labourers were making sheaves of the comthey had reaped, to whom he said as before, “ Good people,if you do not tell the king, who will presently pass this way,that the corn you have reaped in this field belongs to my lordmarquis of Carabas, you shall be chopped as small as mincedmeat.”The king accordingly passed a moment after, and inquiredto whom the corn he saw belonged. “ To my lord marquis ofCarabas,” answered they very glibly; upon which the kingagain complimented the marquis on his noble possessions.The cat still continued to go before, and gave the samecharge to all the people he met with ; so that the king wasgreatly astonished at the splendid fortune of my lord marquisof Carabas.Puss at length arrived at a stately castle, which belonged16to an Ogre, the richest ever known ; for all the lands the kinghad passed through and admired were his. The cat took careto learn every particular about the Ogre, and what he coulddo, and then asked to speak with him, saying, as he entered ■the room in which he was, that he could not pass so near hiscastle without doinghimself the honour to inquire for his health.The Ogre received him as civilly as an Ogre could do, anddesired him to he seated. “I have been informed,” said the ,cat, “ that you have the gift of changing yourself into all sortsof animals; into a lion, or an elephant, for example.” “Itis very true,” replied the Ogre somewhat sternly; “and toconvince you, I will directly take the form of a lion.” Thecat was so much terrified at finding himself so near a lion,that he sprang from him, and climbed to the roof of the house; :but not without much difficulty, as his boots were not very fit 'to walk upon the tiles.Some minutes after, the cat perceiving that the Ogre hadquitted the form of a lion, ventured to come down from the tiles, ,and owned that he had been a good deal frightened. “I havebeen further informed,” continued the cat, “but I know nothow to believe it, that you have the powder of taking the form !of the smallest animals also ; for example, of changing yourself .to a rat or a mouse. I confess I should think this must be iimpossible.” “ Impossible ! you shall see and at the sameinstant he changed himself into a mouse, and began to frisk •about the room. The cat no sooner cast his eyes upon the ;Ogre in this form, than he sprang upon him, and devoured ,him in an instant.In the meantime the king, admiring, as he came near it, ''the magnificent castle of the Ogre, ordered his attendants todrive up to the gates, as he wished to take a nearer view of it. !The cat, hearing the noise of the carriage on the drawbridge,immediately came out, saying, “ Your majesty is welcome tothe castle of my lord marquis of Carabas.” “ And is this splen¬did castle yours also, my lord marquis of Carabas ? I neversaw any thing more stately than the building, or more beauti¬ful than the park and pleasure grounds around it; no doubt :the castle is no less magnificent within than without; pray, <my lord marquis, indulge me with a sight of it.”The marquis gave his hand to the young princess as shealighted, and followed the king, who went before ; they entereda spacious hall, where they found a splendid collation whichthe Ogre had prepared for some friends he had that day ex¬pected to visit him ; but who, hearing that the king with theprincess and a great gentleman of the court were within hadnot dared to enter.ITThe king was so much charmed with the amiable qualitiesand noble fortune of the marquis of Carabas, and the youngprincess too had fallen so violently in love with him, that whenthe king had partaken of the collation, and drank a few glassesof wine, he said to the marquis, “ It will he your own fault,my lord marquis of Carabas, if you do not soon become myson-in-law.” The marquis received the intelligence with athousand respectful acknowledgments, accepted the honourconferred upon him, and married the princess that very day.The cat became a great lord, and never after pursued ratsand mice but for his amusement.Thbee blind beggars were on their way from Compiegne,to seek alms in the neighbourhood. They kept the high roadto Senlis, and walked at a great pace, each holding a cup andstick in his hand. A young ecclesiastic, well mounted, whowas riding towards Compiegne, and attended by a valet onhorseback, was struck at a distance with their steady andrapid strides.“ Those fellows,’ ’ said he, “ for men who appear blind, makevery firm steps. I’ll endeavour to find them out, and see ifthey are not impostors.”Accordingly, as he came near them, and as the beggars,hearing the trampling of the horses’ feet, had ranged them¬selves in a line to ask for charity, he called to them, and pre¬tending to give them some money, but in reality giving themnothing, said:—“ There is a besant; it is intended for you all three ; andI ymu will divide it between you.”‘;Yes, your reverence; and may God bless you in returnfor it.”Although no one of them received the money, yet each wasconfident his comrade had got it. Thus, alter many thanksand good wishes to the horseman, they resumed their march,full of spirits; but at the same time slackening their pace.The churchman feigned also to proceed on his journey ; butat some distance he alighted, and delivering his horse to thecare of his valet, directed him to wait his arrival at the gatesof Compiegne. He then gently approached the beggars, andfollowed them, to wmtch the issue of the adventure.When they no longer heard the noise of horses, the leaderof this little band halted.THE THKEE BEGGARS,18“ Comrades,” said lie, “ we have made a good day’s work ;and I think we had best return to Compiegne, and spend themoney this good Christian hath given us. It is a long timesince we have had a carousal; and now we have enough toenjoy ourselves completely, let us think of nothing but plea¬sure.’ ’On their arrival in town, they heard a cry of “ Good wine!—wine of Soisons 1—wine of Auxerre !—fish and good fare 1Walk in gentlemen ; pray walk in.”They would not go any farther, but entered the first house;and after having cautioned the people not to judge of theirmeans by their outward appearance, (in the tone of men whoderive confidence from the weight of their purse,) they de¬sired that they might be served quickly and well.Nicholas (tor that was the name of the landlord) being usedsometimes to see persons of their vocation spend more thansuch as appear to be much more in affluent circumstances,received them respectfully. He showed them into his bestdining-room ; begged they would be seated, and order whatthey liked best; assuring them that there was nothing in Com¬piegne but what he could set before them, and in a style thatwould give them perfect satisfaction.They desired that plenty of good things might be got ready;and instantly, master, waiter, maid, all in the house set aboutit. A neighbour was even sent for to assist.At length, by virtue of several hands and good speed, theycontrived to serve up a good dinner of five dishes ; and im¬mediately the beggars sat down to it, laughing, singing, drink¬ing to each other, and diverting themselves with clumsy jokeson the simple traveller who was at the expense of the feast.He had followed them with his valet to the inn, and waswithin hearing of the merriment. He even resolved, that hemight not lose any part of it, to dine and sup in a snug man¬ner with the landlord. The beggars all this while occupiedthe best room, and were waited on like noblemen. Theirmirth was thus prolonged till the night was pretty far ad¬vanced, -when, to make a suitable close to so jovial a day, theyeach called for a bed, and went to rest.The next morning the landlord, who wanted to get rid ofthem, sent his servant to call them up. When they were comedown stairs, he made out their bill, which amounted to ten-pence. That was the moment the mischievous churchman soimpatiently expected. To enjoy the transaction more at hisease, he came and posted himself in a corner of the room, butwithout showing himself, lest his presence might be a re¬straint on the guests.19“ Master,” says the blind men to the landlord, “ we have abesant; take your account, and give us our change.”- He holds out his hand to receive it; and, as no one offersit him, he asks them again, when each says, “It is not I.”The landlord then gets into a passion. “So, gentlemenvagrants, you think I am to serve here as a butt for yourdiversion. Be so good as to end all this mockery, and payme immediately my tenpence, otherwise I’ll give you all threea drubbing.”They then began to inquire of each other for the piece ofmoney—to suspect each other’s honesty—to call names—toquarrel; till at length such an uproar and confusion ensued,that the landlord, after giving each of them a box on the ear,called his servant to come down with two good sticks.The ecclesiastic all this while kept laughing in his hiding-place till he was ready to fall into convulsions. But whenhe found the affair was becoming serious, and heard them talkof sticks, he came forward, and with an air of surprise, asked! the cause of the quarrel. “ Sir, here are three knaves whocame yesterday to consume my provisions; and now I ask.them for my due, they have the insolence to mock me. But,by all that’s sacred, they shall not get off in that manner, andbefore they go out ”“ Softly, softly, master Nicholas,” said the churchman,“ these poor men have not wherewithal to pay you ; and, inthat case, they deserve rather your pity than your resentment.How much does their bill amount to ?”‘‘Tenpence.”“ What! is it for so paltry a sum that you raise all this dis¬turbance ? Come, make yourselves easy ; I will take it uponmyself. And, for my part, what am I to pay you“Fivepence, Sir.”“That’s enough. I shall pay you fifteen-pence; now letthese unfortunate men go; and know that to harass the pooris a sin of the first magnitude.”The blind men, who were terrified at the apprehension ofthe bastinado, made their escape with all possible haste ; whilei Nicholas, who had reckoned on losing his tenpence, (being1 delighted to find a person to pay it,) launched out into themost flattering encomiums on the churchman,“What a good man !” cried he ; “ that is the kind of priestswe should have, and then they would be respected. But, un¬fortunately, there are few such 1 Be assured, Sir, so hand¬some an action will not go unrewarded. You will prosper inthe world, take my word for it; and will find the good effectsof your generosity.”uoAll that the crafty traveller had been saying to his host, wasbut a fresli piece of roguery on his part; for, in luring theinnkeeper with such ostentation of generosity, lie only meantto trick him as he had already done the beggars.Just at that moment the parish-bell was ringing to prayers.He asked who was to perform the service; they told him itwas their parson.“ As he is your pastor, master Nicholas,” he further said,“you are most probably acquainted with him?"“Yes, Sir.”“ And if he would engage to pay the fifteen-pence that Iowe you, would you not acknowledge us quit ?”“ Undoubtedly, Sir, if it were thirty, and you desired it.”“ Well, then, come along with me to the church, and wewill speak to him.”They went out together ; but first the ecclesiastic directedhis valet to saddle the horses, and to keep them in readiness.The priest, as they entered the church, had just put on hissacerdotal habit, and was going to read prayers.“ This will keep us very long,’ ’ said the traveller to his host;“ I have not time to wait, but must proceed immediately uponmy journey. It will satisfy you, I should imagine, to havethe parson’s word for the money ?”Nicholas having nodded assent, the other went up to theparson, and dexterously slipping into his hand twelve deniers,said:—“ Sir, you will pardon my coming so near the pulpit tospeak to you ; but much ceremony need not be observed be¬tween persons of the same condition. I am travelling throughyour town, and lodged last night at one of your parishioners’,whom in all probability you know, and whom you mayr seehard by. He is a well-meaning man, honest, and entirelyexempt from vice ; but, unfortunately, his head is not so soundas his heart; his brain is somewhat cracked. Last night oneof his fits of madness prevented us all from sleeping. He is agood deal better, thank God, this morning; nevertheless, ashis head is still affected, and full of religion, he begged wewould conduct him to church, and that he might hear you saya prayer, that the Lord may, in his goodness, restore him toperfect health.”“ Most cheerfully,” answered the parson. He then turnedto his parishioner, and said to him, “Friend, wait till I havedone the service, when I’ll take care that you shall havewhat you desire.”Nicholas, who thought this an ample assurance of what hewent for, said no more; but attended the traveller back to21his inn, ■wished him a good journey, and then returned to thechurch to receive his payment from the parson.The latter, as soon as he had performed the service, camewith his stole and book towards the innkeeper.“Friend,” said he, “go down upon your knees.”The other, surprised at this preamble, observed that therewas no occasion for such ceremony in receiving fifteen-pence,r “Truly they are not mistaken,” said the parson to himself,“ this man cannot be in his right senses.” Then assuming atone of soft insinuation, “Come, my good friend,” said he,‘‘place your trust in God ; he will have pity on your condi¬tion.”At the same time he puts the Bible on the other’s head,and begins his prayer. Nicholas, in anger, pushes away thehook; declares he cannot stay to be trifled with, guests beingI waiting for him at his house ; that he wants his fifteen-pence,and has no occasion for prayers.The priest, irritated at this, calls to his congregation, as thdy1 were going out of church, and desires them to seize the man,| who was raving.“No, no! I am not mad ; and, by St. Corneille, you shall. not trick me in this manner. You engaged to pay me, and I: will not leave this place till I get my money.”“ Seize him! seize him !” cried the priest.They accordingly fastened upon the poor devil; one takinghold of his arms, anothrr of his legs, a third clasping himround the middle, while a fourth exhorted him to be com-1 posed. He makes violent efforts to get out of their clutches,swears and foams with rage, like one possessed,—but all invain; for the parson puts the stole round his neck, and readsquickly his prayer from beginning to end, without excusinghim a single word : after which he sprinkles him copiouslywith holy water, bestows on him a few benedictions, and letshim loose.- The unlucky wight saw clearly that he had been made adupe. He went home, overwhelmed with shame and vexationat the loss of his fifteen-pence; but then he had in lieu ofthem, got a prayer and benediction.THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.Walden was playing on his flute in a slow and pensivestrain, when the mournful cries of a child, and the complain¬ing voice of a woman, struck his cars. “ Oh, merciful God 1”exclaimed the poor creature, “ hear with compassion themoans of my unhappy babe 1”22Walden ceased to play, and looking over the hedge, he sur¬veyed the child with compassion, as the woman lay on thegrass to rest herself. He asked her in a soft voice, why thepool infant cried.“ He is hungry,” replied the woman, weeping bitterly, “ wehave not had any thing to eat since yesterday morning.”“ Gracious God ! since yesterday morning! wait here a fewminutes, and I will return.”He flew away with incredible swiftness, and re-appeared ina short time, with a bowl of milk and a small loaf, towardswhich the child stretched out his little arms, and the womanto whom he delivered them began to feed it.“ Sit down my good woman, and eat of it yourself,” saidWalden, “I will take care of your infant.” Placing himselfon the grass beside it, he dipped a bit of the loaf iu the milk,and patiently assisted his little famished charge.. The child looked up in his face and smiled. Walden, pleasedand affected at this intuitive mark of gratitude, kissed its littleforehead.“ What is your occupation ?” he asked the woman, who waseating with avidity; “ you are, I suppose, the mother of thislittle creature : where do you live ?”“ No, it is not my own,” replied she, “ and I do not knowits parents. I am the wife of a poor soldier, my worthy sir,and I have travelled from beyond Berlin a great way; myhusband had been away from me three years, and I wanted tosee him again—for I loved him dearly. My own two littlechildren I left with their grandmother, and I sold every thingI did not absolutely want at home, that I might carry him alittle trifle of money. Accordingly I set out, and got to theend of my journey just as my husband had marched with hiscorps to drive a party of Austrians from some little village ;so when it was all over, and they had done what they had beenordered, I ran to the place to meet him.”Here the poor woman burst into tears. “ And when I gotthere he was dying of his wounds ; yet he knew me, andstretched out his hand, saying, ‘ Oh, Annette 1 our children.’These were his last words. I thought I should have died too,but God willed, for the sake of our little ones and this babe,that I should live. In the same house where my poor husbandexpired, was the wife of an Austrian soldier, who died twodays afterwards, and left this babe, wdiich nobody on earthseemed to take care about. Almost all the village had beenburned down, and all the inhabitants had run away ; so thatwhen our soldiers marched, I begged them to take the poorchild with them; but then they said to me, ‘ What could we23do with it ?’ and that was very true ; hut to let the child stay,and die with hunger, was impossible; so I resolved to take it,let what would happen; and I set out to return to my ownhome, with the babe in my arms. On my way I was wearyenough ; but I never met with any body that took compassionon me or my burden, so I walked on ; but I fell sick, as youmay see by my looks, and spent the little money I had left,and then I sold my clothes and every thing I could spare. Allwent except these poor rags ; yet still I thought if I could butget home I should do very well. I am used to hard wrork,and I could even do for this little creature, who has nobody inthe world but me to put a morsel of bread into its poor mouth ;so I can’t bear to let it starve.”As she said this, she pressed the child to her bosom, andher tears dropped upon it, whilst she repeated, “ if I was butable to work, or I could but get enough to keep it till I reachmy home.”“Poor babe!” said Walden, “poor, yet happy creature,who, in losing her who gave thee birth, found a second mother!eyes that dropt tears of pity on thy lot, and a heart that lovesthee 1 No, thou shall not from hard necessity be deserted !”Walden then wrote upon a leaf of his pocket-book the nameof the woman, and that of the village where she informed himshe lived with her family; and giving her a small sum ofmoney, promised that he would remit the same to her everyyear.The woman, on holding the gold in her hand, which hadnever contained so much before, exclaimed, “ Oh ! this is toomuch, worthy sir and being desired to keep it, she added,“we shall now be rich, indeed ; my own little ones, and thisone, and their grandmother, we shall all be rich 1”“ Good creature !” exclaimed Walden with emotion, “youI are rich, indeed, in a heart to which all other riches are dross!your humanity to this or-phan will be better rewarded ; but if. this were my last crown you should have it. Hasten away, orI may be tempted to take the child, to have the pleasure of: bringing it up, that it may love me as it will you.” On hear-I, ing this, the woman hastily pressed the infant to her bosom,and givingWalden afarewell benediction, pursued her journeywith alacrity.JACK EASY.Jack Easy came to a good fortune at the death of his father,and mounted his hobby without its ever having been properlybroken in; he galloped over the plains of Fancy, went off ina full canter to the road of Dissipation, and leaped over all24the five-barred gates of Advice and Discretion. It may na¬turally be supposed, that before long bis filly gave him a fall:poor Jack came down sure enough ; but be only shook him¬self, brushed off the dirt of the road, and mounted again in ashigh spirits as ever; excepting, that he now began to sitfirmer in the saddle, and to look about him : this, however,did not hinder him from getting into a swamp, called a law¬suit, where he remained a considerable time before he could :get out; his fortune was now reduced from some thousandsto a few hundreds ; and by this time, no man better knew theway of life than my friend Jack Easy. He had been throughall the dirty cross-roads of business, money-borrowing, bank-ruptcy, and law; and at last arrived at a jail.My friend Jack did not despond ; he consoled himself withthe reflection that hewas asingle man ; someof his misfortunes 1were the consequences of his own imprudence, others of unfore¬seen accidents, and most of them originated from his good inature and generosity. He, however, never excused; he ;lumped them all together, took them in good part, and blamed ■nobody but himself.Fortune, however, at last put on her best smiles, and paidJack a visit in the King’s Bench, in the shape of a handsomelegacy. Jack smiled at the thing, and once more mounted •his nag. He now rode more cautiously, and turned into theroad of Economy, which led to a comfortable inn with thesign of Competency over the door ; he had borrowed a mar¬tingale from an old hostler called Experience; and for the 1first time in his life used a curb. He began already to find,that though he did not gallop away as formerly, yet he wenton in his journey pleasantly enough. Some dashing riderspassed him, laughing at his jog-trot pace ; but he had no oc- ;casion to envy them long ; for presently some of them got intoruts, others were stuck fast in bogs and quagmires, and the ,rest were thrown from their saddles to the great danger oftheir necks. Jack Easy, meanwhile, jogged on merrily ; henow preferred getting off and opening a gate, to leaping overit; and smiled at an obstacle as at a turnpike, where he must .necessarily pay toll. You might now see Jack Easy walkinghis hobby along the road, enjoying the scene around him, withcontentment sparkling in his eyes. If the way happened tobe crowded with horsemen and carriages, you might observehim very readily taking his own side of the road, and letting :them pass.Thus my friend Jack Easy came in with a jog-trot to theend of his journey, leaving his example behind him as a kindof finger-post for the good of other travellers.