THEDOORr ° F[ Salvation Opened;OR, A LOUD AND SHRILLVOICE from HEAVENT OtTnregenerate Sinners on Earth.PLAINLY S H»jE WINS,5 The Neceffity of opening your Hearts, that theKing of Glory may enter in; or elfe, he will O'¬Pen Hell’s mouth to devpur you.a Theff. i. 8. For he is coming, (faith the Apoftle)in jtammg fire, to take vengeance on them thatknovj not God, and that obey not the gofpel of Je-fus Chrijl.By D. J. Minifter of the Gofpel.! • ' <• 'V  [ •- . ! ' nr ' ' I ■ '. GLASGOW:Printed and fold by J- & M. ROBERTSON^M D c c L x x >: v./i...i( 2 )T H EEverlafting Door of Mercy andSalvation Opened.Rev. iii. 20, Behold IJland at the door and knock: Ifany man hear my voice, and open the door, I willcome in to him, and fup with him, and he with me.IT hath pleated the moft wife difpoferof all things,out of the riches of his free grace, to tenderJefus Chrifl: to poor loft and undone tinners, andalto it pleated the Lord Jefus not only to die forfinners, to redeem them from death and the curfeof the law, that he might open a way for loft finnersto return to God: but is pleated to ftand knockingat the door of their hearts, to entreat their fouls tobe reconciled to God. And therefore as you loveyour fouls, as you love your bodies, as you wouldnot bring damnation to yourfelves, hear and fear,and do no more wickedly, but open your hard andftony hearts, that the King of G^ory may enter in.O finner! now Chrift is ftanding and calling to thyfoul, If thou wilt hear and open, I will come in un¬to thee. Now Chrift is faying, ‘ I know thy work:‘ I know well enough that thou haft been a blaf-‘ phemer, or a drunkard, or a whoremonger j yet‘ I ftand at the door this day and knock, I will re-‘ ceive thee into mercy, I will forgive thee all* thy fins, I will accept, I will heal, I will fave* thy foul, if thou wilt open thy heart this day un-* to me, and let me in.’ O brethren, for Chrift’sfake, refufe not Chrift *, do not reject nor negledtft) great afalvation, left you perifh.I. ConfiderThe Door of Salvation Opened. 3» 1. Confider the neceflity you have of him; GiveTj me children, or etfe I die, faid Rachel: O give meR Chrift, or elfe I perifli for ever. Can you be favedij without Chrift ? And if you may have Chrift butfor opening the door, Then 'while it is called to-dayhear and open to me If the door of grace ftiould; be (hut, thou would’ft be (hut up with a vengeancefor ever.2. Confider what anfwer thou wult be able totv)make at the great day, if thou wilt harden thy heart,and not open: Why, what wilt thou? What canftthou plead for thyfelf at the day of judgment? Wiltthou fay, The gofpel never offered thee Chrift ?r Why, thou haft heard this day, If any man viillhear and open, I •will come in and Jup -with him :Wilt thou fay, I weuld have opened my heart, had: it not been for the love of fin, or for eafe, or liber-i ty, or honour, or friends, or companions ? Ohhow will men and angels hifs at you! This is theperfon who for luft’s fake forfook his mercies, whofor a little vanity reje£fed his own falvation: O how. wilt thou curfe thyfelf for nothing ! Nay for that! which is worfe than nothing, thou haft put offi’L Chrift and his falvation: Therefore men, brethren1 and fathers, hearken unto me, as Mofes faid to theIfraelites, fo this day I propound unto you Bleffing: and curftng, life and death! Salvation if you openf to Chrift, and damnation if you refufe Chrift.1 For the Lord’s fake chufe not curfing, but bltf-ifing; chufe not death, but life, chufe not hell, butheaven; chufe not fin, butChrift; tbo* you haveformerly flighted him, if you w'ill now regard him;tho’ you have formerly contemned him, yet if youwill praife him ; tho’ you have formerly refifted, ifyet you will yield, if you will confent, if yet youwill become willing to open unto Chrift, Chriftwill be yours, mercy will be yours, falvation will, ij be yours.{ ll'’ ' AndThe Door of Salvation Opened.•■51And what would you have more ? What! wilFiiot all this do ? Will not mercy allure you ? Willpot love conltrain you? Then give me leave to re- >prove you, and affright you (if it be poflible) outpf thofe depths, of Satan, into which you are fal¬len. However, I am refolved, whether you willor not, and the Lord faften it upon yqur fouls.i. In the bowels of love and mercy, let me begfhee to afk thy foul this queftion, How long willthis life and the comforts of it lafl? Thy foul is im- .mortal, and muff never die, but it muff have 3being fomewhere to all eternity.This world’s happinefs, is it everlafting ? Nofurely: thy money, thy corn, and thy land, willdo thee no good in the great day : O ! What haftthou done for hereafter ? What haft thou laid up■for the world to come ? Is the door of thy heart o-pen to Chrift ? Alas 1 is thy poor foul unarmed allthis while ?Queft. 2. What will become of thee, when thislife and all the comforts thereof are gone? Oh,hard-hearted finner 1 this broad way which thouwalked: in, will never lead thee to the promis’dland, thy gold and filver key will never open hea¬ven’s gate for thee : thy care of this world’s good, •will not plead for thee before the Judge; all thycareful friends and acquaintances, with whorpthou haft fpent many joyful hours, their goodwords will (land thee in no (lead.Then thou wilt be ready to cry, O where is theChrift that I have defpifed ! Q where is the Jefuswhich I have refilled! Will he plead for me ? Nofurely; but to go to the gods whom thou haft cho-fen; O what will become of me? Muft I not die?O whither will death carry me! into which of theregions of the world will death land me, either oflight or darknefs ? To which of the two regions amj now travelling ; Certainly the day of pleafure qrworldly’The Door of Salvation Opened. 5worldly profit, the broad way of the world, it isnot the way to tranfport me to heaven and ever-*lafting happinefs : I fay, O finners! to thy foul,what, mult I be taken from all my glory and great-nefs, from all my delights and dalliances, and bethrown like Lucifer, fon of the morning, from allmy brightnefs into blacknefs and darknefs for ever,when death hath clofed my eyes, mult 1 awakein everlaftin^ flames? Ay, finner, thou {halt, with¬out remedy, unlefs thou open to the Lord JefusChrift.Queft. 3. Afu thy foul on which hand thou artlike to Jland on the day of judgment, on the righthand, or on the left among the goats? If thou wiltnot hear and open now, if thou wilt not open thyheart now, be affured the devil will open hell’smouth for thee: What will be the end of thofejoys which now make fo glad thy heart ? You arenow in the broad way to deflruflion, and utter re¬paration from God’s prefence for ever. Thy plea-fures here we judge of: Oh ! but who can tellthe thoufandth part of thefe firey torments, towhich thou art liable in the other world !When thou died, thou fhalt be 3 damned crea¬ture? whilfi: thou lived, thou art fed like a bead byCommon providehce, and art a mere dranger tofeeding promifes: If thou looked upward, God isfrowning, and his wrath is revealed from heavenagaind thee, Rom. ii. 8.The heavens and their hod are ready every mo¬ment to difcharge God’s curfes, like thunderboltsagatnd thee? If thou looked downwards, thournay’d fee hell gaping and opening its mouth tofwallow thee up quick; Many dangers attend theeevery day, many miferies ev/ery moment, legions ofdevils dand about thee, watching for thee, andWaiting only for the leave of God, to drag thy foulinto the lake of fire.Ah6The Door of Salvation Opened.Ah ! when thou dieft man, tvbat muft thou thendo! When the .aptain, death Orikes, whole armiejof wolves will fall upon thee. Look to it, and re¬member thou waft once warned, for if thou dieft,thou dieft eternally. Saint Auftin’s prayer wasO Lord, hack me, hew me, burn me here: but“ fpare me hereafter.” As long as thou refufeft tohearChrilt’s voice, thou haft a hell upon earth: itis not the multitude of thy companions that gothither, ftiall any whit left’en thy torments, but ra¬ther increafe them. Thy life that hath been fullof worldly joy, (hall end in deadly woe.All you into whofe hand this little book {hallcome, O let me beg you to confider in thofe bowelsof love you have to your own fouls, how yourhearts can endure to think of being {hut out ofheaven, out of bleflednefs for ever: afk your heartthefe queftions, Can I burn? Can I endure thevengeance of eternal fire? Will boiled oil, burningbrimftone, fcalding lead, a glowing oven, a fcorch-ing furnace, be an eafy lodging for me ? O! whymy foul, wilt thou not be perfuaded to repent? Isthere too much pain in that ? Thou art ready tofay, I cannot bear a crofs, nor an affli£lion, a feoff,or a reproach : Talk to thee of crucifying the flefh,of parting with thy lufts, with thy worldly com¬panions, of entering in at the ftrait gate; O thefeare Hard fayings, who cati bear them ?But how wilt thou do to dwell with devouringfire? How wilt thou dwell with everlafting burn¬ings? Whatsoever thou thinkeft now, think whathell will be, when the day comes thoumujl defeendinto it : Thou mayeft drink or laugh away the fearof it, but what will it be to tlvee when thou feeleftthyfolf wrapped up in rhe flames of it, and not adrop of water to cool thy tongue ! think on hell,O {oul! and then think on Chrift, and confider, ifa Redeemer from fach mifery be not worth the ac¬ceptingThe Door of Salvation Opened. 7cepting of: Think on hell, and think on fin, andcarnal pleafures and delights, confider how theywill relilh with thee, when thus aflaulted witheverlafting fire: are thefethe price for which thoufellefl thy foul to hell? Oh! bid thefe lulls andpleafures be gone* bid your companions in fin begone, and tho’ you loved them well, and havefpent your time finfully with them, yet tell them,You muft not burn for them, that you will notdamn yosr foul to pleafe your flefh.Having thus briefly as may be, laid down the ufeof terror, which 1 hope will awaken fome poorfouls out of the depth of carnal fecurity: NowI (hall proceed to the laft ufe of encourage¬ment, to encourage poor fecure finners to ven¬ture to lay fait hold on him, before that it betoo late.The USE.Oh poor foul! halt thou kept Chrilt out a longtime: and art thou not yet refolved to open thyheart to him ! What lhall I fay to thee j Let me faythis, Chrift waits for thee: Chrift is willing ftill toreceive thee, then why wilt thou undo thyfelf bynegle&ing this great faivation ? Let the confidera-tion of the meffage Chrift brings you, of the errandhe comes on, it is not a difma! one he brings, it isno dreadful errand : If Chrift had come to deftroythy foul, could be have had lefs welcome than yougave him ? Oh for yoar foul’s fake receive him ! Ohye fools when will ye be wife? Come unto Chrift,and he will have mercy on you, and heal all yourbackflidings, and love you freely.But fome poor fouls will be ready to fay, I havea defire to come to Chrift, but I am afraid Chriftwill never receive fuch a wretched finner as I, whohave ftood it out fo long againft him. For anfwerto this, give me leave to give you fom« dire£lions.1. Ah,8 The Door of Salvation Opened.r. Ah, poor foul! art thou willing to come toChrifl ? Then will Chrill in no ways call; thee out*if thou comeft to. him poor, miferable, blind andnaked: O finner ! come not to him in thy ftrength,but come thou and fay, ‘ O Lord, here is a poor11 foul not worth a farthing; O Lord, make me‘ rich in faith ; O Lord, here is a miferable foul,* Lord, have mercy on me ; here is a poor blind‘ foul, Lord, enlighten me from above: here is a4 poor naked wretch, O Lord, fave me, left I pe-‘ rifh, for I cannot help myfelf.’Direft. 2. Come to Chrill by believing in him ;Ay, when thy poor foul is finking headlong intobell, and fees no way to efcape the fearful wrath ofGod hanging over thy head, catch thou then atfuch a time fall hold on Chrilt; O then apprehendand apply all his benefits to thy foul : Come thisway, and grafp him in the arms of thy faith ; andfay, I believe i'n thee, keh thou my unbelief: Andthe anfwer which the Lord will give thee, will bethus ; Be it according as thou vjilt. Let Chrift be inyour hands and the promife in your eyes; and nodoubt, though thou haft been a rebel and a traitor,yet Jefus Chrift having received gifts for the rebelslious, will Ihew mercy to thee and receive thee.Direct. 3-. Come to jefus Chrift by repentingand forfaking all thy fins Thou canft never cometo the wedding fupper, without the wedding gar¬ment; The old man mull be done away, before allthings can be made new, jer. iii. 14. O Jerufalcm!Tuajb thy heart from •wickcdnefs, that thou mayejl befaved. Which God of his infinite mercy grant wemay all do, and be blefled for ever, through JefusChrill our Lord and Saviour.rFINIS,