The HISTORY ofTWO BROTHER SMISFORTUNES ;At, and after their Marriage,•*' yr •* ^ *SIMPLE SIMON,ANDMARGERY HIS CRUEL WIFE.AMDSIMPLE JOHN,The WEAVER, and,grizy his wife, a thumper.To which are added,Four excellent Songs.HADDINGTON:Printed by G Mule* at whofe Shop maybe had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, 1 i£Iures, Catecbifina*, 4m.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.■ - -> THEM I S F O R T U N ’E S.OFSIMPLE SIMON.CHAP. I.jin Account of Simon's Wedding, and his Wife'*behaviour the day after their Marriage,SIMON, the ■fubjeft of our enfuing dif-courfe, was a man very unfortunate ma¬ny years after marriage not only by croffes,but by the cruelty of Margery his feverewife ; his wedding day being the bed hefaw in feven years after, for then he had allhis friends about him ; Rough Ralph the!iidlcr, and Will the piper, were appointed'to make him and his guefts merry.Singing, dancing and feaft'ng attendedthe day, which being ended, this lovingcouple were put to bed, where all their friendsleft them.How he pleafed her that night I cannottell, but the morning was ufhered in with a( 3 )mighty dorm, only became Simon put or,his roaft-meat ploathes. Thu? (lie began the! matter. Why how now, pray,what is to-day,: that you muft-put on your holiday cloathes ?i with a pye-crujl to yoa, what do you intend:to do, fay you, tell me quickly ?—Nothing,ifaid Simon, but to walk about with you,l.fweet wife, as is common the day afterimartiage.-^-No, no, faid Margery, this mud.not, nor (hall not be. It is very well knownII have brought you a confiderable fortune ;j forty (hillings in money and a good milk cow,ifour fat wedefers, with half a dozen ewesi and lambs, likew'ife geefe, hens, and turkeysjlalfo a low and pigs, with other moveables,i worth more than any of your crook-backed'generation is able to give you. And do you] think you (hall lead as lewd a life now as(you did before you was married ; but if you; do, then fay my name is not Margery. NowII have got you within the bands of matrimo-:ny, I will make you know what it is to be: married; therefore, towork,;jjou rafeal, andtake care that what I have brought is not: confumed ; for if you do not, what will be-come of your wife and children, if you areiablc to get any >j Now Simon looked like one that had nei¬ther fenfe nor realon, but itoou amazed, as( 4 )if there had been a whole army of Billingjgatfhrews. However, recolleding what he haoheard about fcolds, he muttered to himfelfUfwagers, 1 think I have got a woeful on<:now. What is that you fay firrah, faid (he:—Nothing dear wife, but what you fay I allow to be true:. And (o taking his bag ancbottle, went on forward to bit daily labourBut coming towards the lower end of thtown, he chanced to meet with old Jobfoithe coblcr, a merry blade, who loved a cuiof good ale.—What honed Simon, faid Jobfon, I am glad to fee you, for fince our latmeeting I hear you arc married, and nowwidi you much joy.—Now old Jobfon beina merry fellow, invited Simon to take a flaggon of the beft liquor that the next alehoutcould afford, and there to drink to Margeryhealth.—being merry in di'conrfe, talking cthe tricks and pranks they had played whebatchelors, Jobton taking up the flaggon ihis hand, (aid, come here’s to thee honelt Smon, and I wilh thee better luck than Rardal thy old lather-in-law had with his wifelor (he was fuch a (cold, that happy was thewho lived out of the clamour of her noiflBut without doubt thy wife may be of a mider fpirit,and have more ol her father's meelnefs than her mother’s fury in her; but coirSimon here’s to thee, and thy dearly bekmC 5 )Margery—cries 5imon if ihe was prdent hovrmerry (hould we be ; but I fear on the wrongfide of the mouth. Well, faid Jobfon, Ivow I long to fee her; and I verify believeifhe would be glad to fee me, 1 dare to lay[fhe will prove a good wife.— fruly, neigh¬bour Jobfon, 1 do not know ; but if fhe'have no better ending than beginning, I wifhI had ended my life at the plough tail.-—'.No fooner were thefe words out of his mouth,•but in comes Margery with her goffips whomijobfcn wilhed to fee, forfooth ; he wifhed;hcr joy, but Margery in a very woeful furyjfnatching up Jobfon’s oaken ftaff from off thetable, gave poor Simon fuch a clank uponHhe noddle, as made the blood fpring, fay-!ing, is this your work, firrah ?—Jobfon thexobler feeing fo fudden an alteration, waslaffrighted, not knowing how to elcape. Sheturning about to the left, being well difeip-Jined, laid ; Thou rogue and rafeal it is youthat ruins all the poor women’s hufbands inthe town, and therefore yeu (hall not go un¬rewarded, giving him fuch licks over theback and ihoulders, as made poor Jobfoniday in his bed tor a fortnight,—Simple Si-'imon all this while not having any power torun away, but flood like one half frighted'out of his wits, and trembling before hisibride, with his hat in one hand, and the flag( 6 )gpn In the other, begging her to be patieri;Tnd he would never offend her more. Bidie gave him a frown, and bad him be gorabout hi* bufinefs, which he immediately die,So that then Margery and her goffips hathe whole room to themlelves, where they ittill they were all as drunk as iilh-women.CHAP. H.She drags him up into the Chimney} and ban;him a fmoak-diying'.*■ ■ •* . > . 4 ' ' ' * V ' ^ * •• • fc -AT night when he returned to his hormMargery, by the help of a nap the hataken, was a little reflored to her fenfes tgain ; but yet not forgetting the fault 1had committed, (he invented a new kind «punilbment: Fof having a wide chimne’wherein they ufed to dry bacon, ihe takinhim at a difadvantage,* tir d him head anfoot, bound him ia a bafket, and by the he!of a rope drew him to the beam in the chinney, and led him there ro take his lodginthe fecond night after their wedding, withfmall fmoaky hie under him ; fo that in tf. morning he was reeked like a red-herrinjBut at length ne canted his wife to fhew hifo much puy as to let hun down.. *JfI 7 )In love releafe me from this horrid fmokc,Aqd I will .'never more rav\vife provoke;She (Irait did yicl d to let him down f roouhencefaid be careful of the next offence.1 G H A P. III.%mon lofes a fack of cdYh;'that he'was carry-i .. ang U the mill to have ground.VTOr long after die fent him to the millwith a lack of corn, and bade him re-ernber what die faid to- him, or he fhould;* go nnpuniihed. Well faid Simon, I(pe I (hall never offend thee .more Forns promile (he gave him a m-ffs of milk,d when he had eaten all up, he took theJk of corn on his back, and went towards| m’ll» which ftood about two miles fromI houle. When Sinjon was got about halfArhc began to be weary, which was the fore*iner of a greater misfortune; foi a manmg by leading an empty horfe towards;(mill, perceiving Simon weary of his load,f him he might lay it upon his fpare horfe.'(which Simor willingly confented. Theriding on, Simon could not pace with, fo he dehred him to leaver for him a;( 8 )mill; be promifed he would, but neveintended to perform.—Simon thus lofing hiJack of corn, knew not how to go home, oJhew his face bcfoVe his wife, unul he gctwo or three of his neighbours to go withim, to beer for his pardon, and to help tmake up the differences between them whuthey did after a long parly. So that for thcrime he palled unpunilhed.CHAP. IV.Simon goes to tbs Market with bis Bq/ke\Eggs : breaks, them all by the way, am• Jet in the1 flocks.BUT although he was not punifhed.cording to the fevere correction heformerly received, yet he had not efcathe feveral raiiirgt in hit ears for leveral cafter, ever anon ihe crying out You lot,von never be wife ? Yes, fweet Margery .Margery Ihopelfliallintime. Wd*,fayswilhry you once more: Here, take this baof eggs, and go to market and fell them )be lure do not break ibem nor (pend t iency, for if you do, forrow will be your |and you may exped to feel the weigi'C 9 >my lund more than ever you have done yetiAt which har(h word* he trembled, and look-;d ai white as his wife’s fmock, for fear heifhould milcarry with his bafleet of egg*, for;he knew his wife would be as good as herword.Then Simon taking his balket of eggs,•trudged to the market; but no fooner cameithere, than feeing a vaft crowd of people, herefolved to fee what was the matter.- ■ Whenne came to the place, he found that two but¬ler women had fallen out, and to that degree,::hat they had taken one another by the quoif,«:heir hair and their fillets flying about theiri:ars; which Simon feeing he was movedvith compaflion, and ran to part them, butm vain ; poor Simon wa* ftill unfortunate,md came off with lols; for one of the wo-nen pulled him down and broke his eggs,-Poor Simon was almoft diflraded to feeht ground ; but whether it was the fear of:-he anger of his wife, or whether it was cour-;ge ; this it w^s, Simon run in among them,ijndrefolved to be revenged on them for thebis of his eggs. Whilft they were in the fray,iiheconfiable came, and fuppofingthemdrunk’,ave orders they fhould be ali fet in thetocks togethet; Simon in the middle antine women on ore fide, which was according-/ done ; but they rang fuch a peal in Si-( 10 )aion’s ear*, that he was deaf for a fortnipf iafrer -—Being rdcafed he ventured homegain, dreading the impending ftorm ; bithis was his comfort in the midft oi all hhard fortune that though he might find thforce of her blow dill he (hpuld be deaf ther noife. being dunned by the women ithe docks.CHAP. V.Simon's Wife cudgels him for lofing his mone^ ■AT lengthiSimon coming home, he mthhis beloved Margery, who ieeing hdejeded countenance,began tomiftrudfomtthing; fo taking hold of his arm, <he haulehim in for examination. When Simon fa .this he could not forbear weeping and b*!gin to tell her a difmal dory concerning tldocks; but (he wanted her money for tfeggs : But Simon being deaf, could not heiher, which made her fall on him with diefury, that at lad he was obliged to run vdairs and jump out of the chamber windo\which when die faw,-fhe followed him dowthe town with an hundred boys and girls ater them, Simon dill crying out to the pe<( ll )pie, You may fee what it is to be married'lAnd her tone was, You rafcal, the moneyfor the eggs, often giving him a crack on| the crown. At length it was his good hapto get from her.-—Night drawing, and Si¬mon not having one penny to help himielf,was forced to the beft of a bad bargain, re-lolved to lodge that night in the hog-ftyeamongft the hogs; and fo next morning inj the prefence ot fome of his d**areft friends,f he begged pardon on his kntes of his fweet,J kind, and loving wife MargeryCHAP. VI.Simon iofcs his Wife's Pail, and burns out thebottom of her kettle.MARCERY being reconciled again, onhis humble petition, (hecharged himto be careful for the future, that he did not.offend her as he had /tone beiore, which hepromifed to obferve — Then Simon, faid fhe,I am this day going a gofliping, £c fhall leaveyou at home to make a fite and hang on thekettle. Yes fweet wife. Now Margery wasno fooner gone, but he put on the fire andhung on the kettle. Then taking the pail.( 12 ^be goes to the well to fetch water; whcmithere cirri' an x running down, with a but»cher and his bo\ after him, who called tearSimon to flop the ox which he endeavouredf :bur the ox giving them the flip, Simon rur|-in purfuit of him for the I pace of three oii;t:four miles and having lecured him. the but-|cher gave him thanks for his kindnefs. So tSimon remmed back to the well, but hispail was loft, and he made a lamentation forit, enquiring about it but could hear no¬thing of it; and a? the proverb fays, one for-row never comes alone; for in going m doors,the fire was flaming, and the bottom of the lkettle burnt out. At the fight of this he fell lto wringing his hands, and crying oat witha lamentable tone, never was a man fo un¬fortunate as poor Stmon ; what fhall I fayto my wife when die comes ; firft, l have loftthe pail, fecond I have burnt out the bottom inof the kettle. Here will be a fad reckoning ;for thefe miichances—Juft in the middle ofthefe lamentations, in comes Margery, who <having heard him, came armed and fitcedfor the fray. How, now, firrah, faid die,has this been the care you promiled of my ;■bufinefs ? and with that let fly an earthen rpot at his head which made the blood to run.about his ears. This done, (he took him bythe collar, and cuft him about the kitchenif—i tj >j at a moft horrid rate, Smon crying for mer-i cy, but cruel Margcryfyih encrcafed his m's-i crv, till the neighbours came in perfuariingI Margery to be pacified ; for laid they it visia mifchance — \ rafcal, fays (he, for * canI fet him about nothing,, but thus he ferves me.' Yet they ftill interceded for Simon until (hei ext ufcd him.CHAP. VII.; k V.{Simon's Wife Jends him to buy foap ; but goingover a Bridge, he let bis Money fall intothe river ; and of a Ragman running awaywtlh his Cloathes,MARGERY calling Simon to her, faid.Will you never be careful in anything I let you about.- Yes, dear wife I hope1 (hall: Why then, faid (lie, take this mo¬ney, I have tied it in a clout that you may<not lofc it. Therefore, go to the market,and make all the hade you can, and get metome foap —' will, fweet wife, quoth he,fnd with that he went as fad as ever heon Id.( *4 )Now in his way he was to pafs over abridge ajid coming tc the middle of it, aflight of crows flew over his head, which foaffrighted him that he let fall his money.This was the beginning of a new forrow ;he flood a while, and knew not what courfeto take. At laft he refolvcd to pull off his icloathes, and jump into the water in fearchfor it. Now as he was fearchingfor his mo¬ney, an old. ragman came by, and put his 1cloafhes in a bag. Simon feeing this, pur-fued him, but in vain, and was forced to re¬turn home naked; which his wife feeing,fell into a horrid fweat, and taking the dog-whip, (he jerked poor Simon about, making !him dance the canaries for two hours, heerving our, Goodwife forbear; but (he cry¬ing out, You rafeal, where is my money andjyour cloathts ? Tiuis (lie continued till (hewas tired, and he begged her pardon.( «i 5THECOMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHN, &c.SIMPLE JOHN, was a widow’s fon, anda coarfe country weaver to his trade ;he made nothing but inch as canvas for caff-beds, corn and coal-facts, druggit and hamwas the fined webs he could lay his fingersto ; he was a great lump of a lohg lean lad,about fix feet high before he was eighteenyears old, and as he faid himlelf, he grewfae-dalt, and was in fic a hurry to be high,that he did not ftay to bring a’ his judgmentwith him, but yet he hoped it would fol¬low him, and he would meet wi’t as mony aane does, after they’re married; he had but' ae filter, and (he had as little fenfe as hina-felf; Ihe was married to fleeky Willy thewylie weaver,his mither was a ranling-fcull’dwife, and they lived a’in ac houfe, and everybody held them as a family of fools. When( 16 >Jolin came to man’s ftate to tlie age of twen-ty-otiC years, he telPd his mither he wou’dhae a wife of fome fort either young or auld,widow or lafs, if they had but head, hips,tongue and tail, he fliould tak them, andweel T wat mither quoth he they’ll get alumping penny worth o’ me, take me wha’will.His mither-teils him o* the black butcheron Ti’ot fide, who had three dochters, andevery one o* them had lomething, there wasKate. A.nn, and Grizy, had a hundred merksthe piece; Kate and A.nn had both baftards,Grizy, the eldeft, had a hump-back, high-breart. baker-legged,a fliort wry neck,rhrawnmouth, and goggle ev’d, aperfed; iElop ofthe female kind, with as many crooked con¬ditions within as without, a very lump ofloun-like ill nature, row’d a’ together as iffhe had been nine months in a haggies. afecond edition of crooked Richard an oldEnglifh king, that was born wi’ teeth to bitea’ round about him, and yet the wight gaedmad to be married.John’s mother tell’d him the road whereto go, and what to fay, and accordingly he letsout wi’ hi* Sunday’s coat on and a his braws,and a pair o’ new pillonian breeks o’ his( '7 v . _ ;P . f ft ~T *•- . ' v F *mithcr’s making. In he comes, and tells hi?errand before he would fit down, fays, goodday to you good maun, what are you a’ do¬ing here ? I am wanting a wife, and ye’re afiefher, and has gude forting afide you ; mymirher fays, ye may fair me or ony body like,what fay you till’t good, how many dochtershave ye ? are they a’ n amed yet ? 1 wadfain take a look or them gin ye like.A wow faid the goodwife, come in my ho-neft lad and reft you, and be ye wooer, fitdown and gi’s a Inuff: a deed goodwife i haenae mills but my mither’s and its at hame,wharc win yc I’fe no ken yet? I wat quotbhe, my name’s Jock Sandeman, th- y ca’ meS mple John thefack weaver, 1 hat no toch¬er but my loom, a pirn , heel, a kettle-pat, abrafs pan, twa pigg^, four cog> and a candle-ftick, a gude cock, a cat, twa herocks n.wbegun to lay ; my fifter Sara is married toflctky Willy the wylie weaver, and I maunhae a hag wife or my muher die, tor trulythe’s very frail, and oi.y harie o’ meat fhehas is about dinner-time ; what lay you till’tgoodman ? can ye buckle me or no ?Goodman. A dear John ye’re in a uncohade, ye wadna hae your wife hame wi’ ye?thiy’re a three before ye, which o’ them willye tak? »C 18 >Hout hout, fays John, onyo’them ’ill fareme, but my mither fays there’s twa o’, themhas fauts; anti what is their fauts, faid thegoedwifg ? Hout, faid John, its no a meikle-faut,. bgt I do nae like it, they got men orthey were married : and what Uiall I do wi*them ? faid the good man ?John. A. dee«I goodman, as ye’er ay deal¬ing among dead beads and living beads, fw’d put them awa’ amang other beads, orgin je be aun ony penny, let fome body talcthem up o’ defperate debt, I fude flee thefy kesfiae them, they anger’d you and iham’dyou baith wi* their baii^rds, a wheen daftjades gets men or they are married, & bairnsor they get budals. *Goodwife. A wat well that’s true lad.Grizy. A well John than, will ye tak me?I had nae badards ; how will, you and I do?John. I watna gin ye be able to get a baf-tard, yet ye may hae -form, war fault; yemaun be my penny worth, for ye’re uncolittle, and I’m o’er muckle, and gin ye andI war ance carded thro’ ither, we may getbonny weans o’ a middle mak : 1 hae naefauts to ye, but ye hae a high bread, a humphc *9 yi,3ck, a (hort neck, and high flioul^ers, the: ands and legs may do, though yoipr nmuth;ie a wee ro the tac fide, it will ly well to thejock, and t hae a handle or twa to Iphi, \yill;>e haith farks and lacks till us, ye’ll be my(only dauiy up and down, a perfect beauty,tjvi’ cat’s yellow ecn, black brows & red bps,jnd your very nofe is a purpey'colour., yehave nae fams at a’; vovf whan will yc bsijnarried ?jhI Gri-zy. Ha, ha, John Iad,! we mlun thinknn that yet.—John, what theyeltow lafs, ye. fltoud’a be ready when I’m ready,.a.yd everybody lavs the women is ay ready.—-Gooiman, ye’ll hae to come back, and bring iome-body wi’ you, and we’ll gree abi ut it and'Tec the day whan ye’ll be manned. Jo on,A Well goodman I’ll tela miy mi her on’t,and come back on Monday, and we’llJaeachappin o’ ale and ioatied eheeie on the goodchance o’t ; but I mauri hae a woid o’ two| with the bride, but-by to convoy me, and aj quiet fpeak to herfelf about it.After a long and fair tuleie, they wereI married, when Grizy paid him back and fide,; and always called him the yellow warn'd wca-1 ver, and cuff’d hi i with hei meves until hatand wig all went off. So jhnn appealed t®(to )a Jedhmfgh jurv, if it is not caficr to dewith fools t^an headftrong fouk ; owns ihas but an emptv fcull, but his wicked wi]wants wit to poor judgment into it.SONGS.C HOICE OF A HIFE.\V HEV a man is determin’d on taking a wife’Tis a time to be nice--his quiet’s the priceThe odds are againft-he’s wretched for life1 can point out the charm to remove ev’*ry harm, .So attend all ye batchelors taking a wife.Jris not the face, ’tis nor the air,* * is not the grace, tho’ debonair,’Fis not the glance, or brilliant eye,JIis not the dance, or tender ftgh :Nor hand, nor fhape, nor leg, nor air.Nor mouth, nor teeth, nor ikin tho’ fair.( 21 )'Without a mind, tho’ all in one,I’d value not a feather ;Good humour is the chain alone*That links them all together.'pen.fix not alone on a beautiful face,jj For what could you do with a fair littlefhrew,iVhofe tongue with your patience would ne-iver keep pace ?J You ne’er could new mould her, forworfcwhen file’s older.You’d in vain feck the mind in a beautifulface. . ,’Tis not the face, &c.Tie WAT to get MARRIED.:COME hither, ye belles, aye and likewifeye beaus.Come hither, and mind what I have to cx-prefs,’Tis the way to get married l mean to difclofe,i A way of iome moment you all mufl con-tcfs.Phyficians, its known, for advice claim a fee.But I, oh! I’m not by telf intereft carried,And fo you are welcome to my recipe.( *2 )Wlfith is if you like it—the way to 4married,Now lovers attend, and I hope there’s f©jhere !.; Don’t trifle too long about this thingthat, *But when you are bent on an objed: fo deLet prudence direft you, and" mind wtyou’re at :To love, and be iov’d, is the higheft of joThen be not, 1 beg, by indjfftrence carrieLet honour and truth all yoUr aftions emphWhich is, if you like it—the way to gmarried.Tho’ money may fometimes be deenrd ve?well.Yet riches can never true pleafures impar:’Tis love, and love only, each care can repe.Tis love, and love only, that conqueithe heart !Then make it your ftudv to follow my planAll you who live Angle, and too long havtarried.Court with zeal, like true lovers, as foon ayou can,Which is, if you like it-^-the way to gcmarried.Z10GGT0F THE COT.|>UNG Harry would a courting go,Knd fain woui.d marry Mog ;: Kate, and Jane, and Betfey too,vVould no way let him jog.th fmiles eac|i try’d to gain h:s heart,3ut Hal car’d no^ a jot;r he in truth Iwore ne’er to partjyVith Moggy ot the Cot.imng Moggy was his heart’s delight,\nd (he lov’d hinyfu’ll well ;hen on the green they danc’d each night,ITheir am’rous tales "would tell :te’d-Jfmi!e. he’d laugh, with loch a glee,IWas proud to own his lot,lev marry’d were Hal paid his fee,(To Moggy of the Cot.!)or Dad and Mam were very gladTo hear the happy news ;7ith hafte they ran, dreft in the plaid.The ribbons for to chafe :ach lad and lafs met on the green,To praife young Harry’s lot;.ate, Jane, and Bet, at church were feen.With Moggy oi the Cot.I( *4 )jfNNA OF THE TTNE.A BONNY Twain, blithe Sardy nam’d.}Who’d murkle land and kine ;A laffie lov’d for beauty fam’d,1 Fair Anna of the Tyne :And thus would Sandy joyous fing.Fair maid. O be but mine ;More blefs’d I’ll be than laird or king,With Anna of the TyneWith Anna of tbe Tyne. With Anna,Kind youth, (he cried, na kine, nor landNor money I’ve in (lore;Then ceafe to afk my humble hand,Nor wed a maid fo poor :Yet Sandy ftill would joyous fing,Fair maid, O be but mine,More blefs’d I’d be than laird or king,i With Anna of the Tyne. With Anna«For, Anna, thou art rich in charms,The wealth of worlds to n e;Then wed and blefs thy lover’s arms :She fmil’d, and bleft was he :How rapt’rous then did Sandy fing.Now, now my fair one’s mine,I am more blefs’d than laird or king.With Anna of the Tyne. With Anna, 1*