THEr-COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHNAND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES,■WHICH HAPPENED ALL IN TWELVE DAYS AFTER THEGLASGOW :PHIHIED FOH THE WOOKSEI, LESS.theIf. 0 0COMICAL HISTORY> lJL l JL X . JOFSIMPLE JOHN,ifffl ff|STWELVE MISFORTUNES,au: fiiiu tAu 3.yja t '<u dtA a ,.,i i. - n/!Aa &ui ao YAti wa”. jSimple John was a widow’s son,a d a coarse country weaver to histrade. He made nothing but such ascanvas for caflf-bedsy Corn and coalsacks, drugget and hard was the finestwebs he could lay his fingers to: he wasa great lump of a Hitg, lean lad, aboonsax feet afore he was aughteen )^earsauld; and, as he said himsel, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry to behigh, that he did not stay to bring a’his judgment with him, but yet hehoped it WUtild follow hirii, ahd hewould meet wi’t, as inony a ane does.3after they’re married. He had but aesister, and she had as little sense ashimsel’, she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie, the wylie weaver; his mither was arattling rattle-scull’d wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s estate, to the age oftwenty-one years, he told his mitherhe would hae a wife o’ some sort, eitheryoung or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but heads and lips, tongue and tail,he should tak them, and weel I wat,mither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpenny-worth o’ me, get me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedoughters, and every ane o’ them hadsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzjq had a hundred merks the piece.Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had a humph back, ahigh breast, baker legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth, and goggle ey’d;a perfect iEsop of the female kind, withas many crooked conditions within aswithout, a very lump of loun-like ill-nature, row’d i\ together, as if she had4been nine months in a haggis, a se¬cond edition of crook backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that wasborn with teeth to bite a’ around a-bout him, and yet the wight gaed madto be married.John’s mither told him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sunday’scoat on, and a’ his braws, and a pairof new pillonian breeks o’ his mither’smaking. In he comes and tells hiserrand before he would sit down,says good day to you, goodman, whatare you a’ doing here P I am wantinga wife, an’ ye’re a flesher, and has a glidesorting aside you, my mither says yecan sail* me or ony body like me, whatsay ye till’t, goodman P How monydouchters hae ye p Are they a’ mar¬ried yet P I fain wad tak a look o’ someo’ them gin ye like.A wow, said the goodwife, come inby, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer sit down and gie’s a snuff—A deed, goodwife, I hae nae mills butmy mither’s, and it’s at humc.—Wlmrewin ye, Fas no ken ye P 1 wnt, quoth5he, my name’s Jock Sandyman,and theyca’ me Simple John the sack weaver.I hae nae tocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle, pat, a brass pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candlestick, agopd cock, a cat, twa errocks new be-I gun to lay; my sister Sara is married' on Sleeky Willie the wylie weaver, andI maun hae a hagwife or my mitherdie, for truly she’s very frail, and onyharl o’ health she has is about dinnertime; what say ye till’t, goodman ? canye buckle me or not?Goodman. A dear John, ye’re in anun^o haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi’ ye ? they’re a’ there beforeye, which o’ them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o’ themwjll sair me, but my mither says there ist.vya o’ them has fauts. And what istheir fauts ? says the goodwife. Hout,said John, it’s no meikle faut, but Idinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shall I do wi’them ? said the goodman.John. A deed, goodman, as ye’re aydealing among dead beasts and livingbeasts, I wad put them awa amongither beast!?, or gin ye be aun ony pen¬ny, let somebody tak them up o’ des¬perate debt, I sud flie the fykes fraethem, they anger’d you, and sham’dyou baith with their bastards, a wheendaft jades it gets men or they be mar¬ried, and bairns or they get bridals.Goodivife. A wat weel that’s trite,lad.Girzy. A weel, John, then, will yetak me; I hae nae bastards ; how willyou and I do ?John. I wat na gin ye be able to geta bastard, yet ye may hae some waurfaut; but ye maun be my pennyworth,for ye’re unco little, and I’m o’er muc-kle, and gin ye and I war ance cardedthrough ither, We may get bonny weanso’ a middlen niak. 1 hae nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shoitthers,the hands and legs may do, tho’ yourmouth be z wee to the tae side it willlie weel to the rock, and 1 hae a han-tle o’ tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till Us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down; a perfect beauty,wi’ cat’s yellow een, black brous, andYred lips, and your very nose is a purplecolour; ye hac nae fauts at a’. Now,whan will we be married PGirzy. Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that yet.John. What the yeltoAv, lass, shouldna ye be ready whan I’m ready, andevery body says that the woman’s ayeready.Goodman. Ye’ll hae to come backand bring somebody wi’ you, and we’llgree about it, and set the day whanye’ll be married.John. A weel, goodman, I’ll tell mymither o’t, and come back on Monon-day, and we’ll hae a chappin o’ ale, androasted cheese on the chance o’t, butI maun hae a word o’ the bride out by,to convoy me, and a quiet speak to her-sel about it.Goodwife. A wow na, John, thedaft loons will laugh fit you, and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John, and the bride, andher twa sisters goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion* and whatlie would say. Now says John, Girzymy dear, my braw pretty woman, an yebe in earnest, tell me, for by my sutliI’m no scorning.Girzy. Indeed, John, I’m very will¬ing to tak ye, but ye needna tell everybody about it.John. Then gie me a kiss on that.He shoves his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I could eat you a’, I likeyou sae weel; it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ between us, I’se tell my mithersae bonny as ye are: O, gie me anitherkiss yet, and then I’ll go. One of hersisters standing by in a dark corner,gets baud o’ a cow’s head, which want¬ed a’ the skin but about the mouth,and shoves it towards his mouth, whichhe kissed in the dark. O, cries he, yourmouth be cauld since I kissed ye last,and I think ye hae a beard, I saw naethat before, or is’t wi’ spinning tow thatmaks your mouth sae rough at e’en.Hame he comes, and tells his mitherthe speed and properties of the marriage.9All things was got ready, and next weekSleekv Willie the weaver and him cameto gree the marriage, and stay all nightwith the bride, and teach John goodmanners, for when John was hungry,lie minded his meat mair than his goodbehaviour, and he never was fu’ tillthe dish was tume. Willie the weaverwas to tramp on his fit when hethought he had suppet aneugh ; so allthings being agreed, upon short andeasy terms, and the wedding day set,they were to be three times cried onSunday, and quietly married on Mon¬day, neither piper nor fiddler to beemploy’d, but sweith awa hame frae theMinister, and into the bed amang theblankets ; ha, ha, cried John, that’s thebest o’t ahNow every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat haggis, the very smell wada done a hungry body gude, but Johnhad only got twa or three soups, untilone of the butcher’s meikle dogs tramp¬ed on John’s fit, which he took to bethe weaver, and then he would eat naemair. After supper they went to bed10Jolm and the weaver lay together, andthen he abused the weaver fortramping sae soon, which he denied ;but O, said John, there’s a hantle o’tleft, and I saw whare it was set; they area’sleeping, I’ll go rise and tak a soup o’tyet. Aye, een do sae, said sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Awaythen John goes to the amry, and laysto the haggis, till his ain haggis couldhand nae mair; then brought some toSleeky Willie; but, instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and the twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly,Will ye tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing so, he putsa great spoonful close into one of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears a’ thatpast, comes out the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dishwhere it was, leaves the amry door opento let the cats get the blame of sup¬ping the haggis, and away they go tobed; but poor John could get nae sleepfor drouth; up he gets in search of the11water-cun, and linding an empty pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therewas any water in it, but finding nanehe closed his hand when it was withinthe pitcher, and then could not get itout, goes to the bed and tells SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and gcout to a knocking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make anoise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggis laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness (as she took it tobe) off the tail of hev sark, and shebeing in a louting posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes owerher hurdles with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright, round a turf-stack, andinto the house before him. John camein trembling to the bed again, wi’- thefright, praying to preserve him, for sic aknocking-stane he never yet saw, for itran clean awa when he broke the pigupon it.12TsTow John was furnished in a houseby his father-indaw; the bed, the loom,iieddles, treadles, thrumbs, reed, andpirn-wheel, was a’ brought and set upbdfore the marriage, which was kepta profound secret; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, howthey were to work, and keep house ;John was to keep the house in meat,meal, fire, and water; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes;the father-in-law to pay the rent forthree years; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, until they had children; andtheir first child was to be a John, afterits ain Daddy, get it wha will, if aboy ; and if a girl, Girzy, after its ainminny, as ye said wha wrought bestfort.■It ! r,i J (13MISFORTUNE 1.Then she ordered John to rise andbegin his wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in a crowdto see him, gave aloud huzza: and clap¬ping their hands at him, poor John,not knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tither, tillbaith went to pieces, and that was acheerful huzza to baith young and auldthat was looking at him ; Girzy thewife draws him into the house, and toliim she flies with the wicked wife'sweapon, her Tongue and Tangs, andmade his ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye war daft, but I’ll ding thedaffing out o’ ye, I’ll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi’ you.” PoorJohn sat crying and clawing his hen i14“ Ila, ha,” said he, its nae bairn’splay to be married, J find that already.”His mother-in-law came in and madeup peace, went to a cooper, and gotthem a big wooden stoop to carry intheir water.MISFORTUNE II,Next morning, John was sept to theFlesh-market an errand to his Father-in-law, who gave him a piece of fleshto carpy bowe, and as he was comingout of the market, he saw six or sevenof the flesher dogs fall on and worry at0 poor country colly dog ; “Justice, jus¬tice,” cries John to the dogs, “ ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly raspals, thatfa’s a’ on ae poor beast, heth ye shoulda’ be put in the toubuoth, apd ta’en tothe bailies, and hanged for the like o’that; its perfect murderand in heruns amongst the dogs, “ And be hang¬ed to you a’ thegither. What’s the quar¬rel? What’s the quarrel P John flingsdown the flesh he had carrying, andgrips the colly, who took John for an15enemy too, and bites his hands till theblood followed, the whole of the tykescomes a’ on poor John, till down hegoes in the dirt amongst their feet, andone of the dogs runs off with the flesh,so John went hame both dirty andbloody and without his flesh, told Girzyhow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and Tongue, madeJohn to curse the very minister thatmarried them, and wished he mightne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent to thewell with the great stoup to bring inwater for breakfast; and as he was pul¬ling the stoup out of the well, in he tum¬bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he cpuldna wip out: some peo¬ple passing by chance heard tfie slunge,cried, and ran to his relief, hauled himopt half dead, and helped hipi into thehouse ; and after getting a dry sark, hewas comforted with the old plaister,her Topgue apd hard Tangs.16MISFORTUNE IV.i ? :i n 'T / {{( i . V>4 *« l c ■ . J i •' •: I? . i') 0Next day, she says, John, I mustgo to the market myself, for if you goyou’ll fight wi’ the dogs, and let themrun awa wi’ ony thing you buy: seethat ye put on the pat, hae’t boilingagain I come hame. John promisedweel, but performs very badly. She’sno sooner gone, than he puts on thenew pat without any water in it, anda good fire to make it boil, and awayhe goes to the unhappy well, fills hisstoup, and sets it down to look at aparcel of boys playing at cat and dog,they persuaded John to take a game wi’them, on he plays, till ane o’ the boyscries, Hey John, yonders your Girzycoming. John runs into the housewi’ the water, and the pat being red-hot on the fire, he tumes in the cauldwater into it, which made the pat fleeall in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John runs for it, and sheruns after him, crying catch the thief,some persons stopped him ; she comes17up, and then she laboured him all theway hame, and he crying, “ O Sirs, yesee what it is to be married!” Thernither-in-law had to make up peaceagain, and he promised good behaviourin time to come.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent him tothe water to wash some cow’s puddingsand turn them on a spindle, showinghim how he was to do or he went away.John goes to the water very willingly,and as he turned and washed them, helaid them down behind him, where oneof his father-in-law’s big dogs stood,and ate them up as fast as he laid themdown, till all was gone but the verylast ane, which he carried hame in hishand, crying like a child, and under¬went a severe tost of the old plaisterbefore any mercy was shown.MISFORTUNE VI.His father-in-law, next day, sent him18away to bring home a fat calf he hadbought in the country, and tied up themoney in a napkin, which he carried inhis hand for fear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty, as it was all in half¬pence, and as he was going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after ahorse, who cries to John to stop thehorse; John meets him on the top ofthe bridge, and when he would not bestopped for him, he knocks the horseon the face with the napkin and themoney, sd the napkin rave, and most ofthe half-pence flew over the bridge inthe water, which made poor John gohome crying very bitterly for liis loss,and dread of the old plaister, which hegot very sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to sde if he couldfind any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismohey, he kills one of them, and rips19her up, but found none of it in her gutsor gabbie ; then says he, they have beenbut looking for it, I’ll go do as they did,strips off his clothes and leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a ducking, in whichtime, a ragman came past, and took a-way all his clothes. So he went homenaked to get a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.The next morning, she sent him to afarm-house for a pigful of buttermilk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s bull and another bullwere fighting ; the farmer’s bull being-like tnloss, John runs in behind him, andsets his head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theother; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, and the other bull camefull drive upon John, pushed him down,broke the pig, and spilt the milk. SoJohn went hortie to get his auld plais¬ter, which began to be a usual diet tohim, ahd so he regarded it the less.20MISFORTUNE IX.His mother-in-law, with several auldwitty wives, held a private council onJohn’s conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wa&of the same opinion, and went t6 theMinister, and told him he was the caiifeeof a’ his misfortunes, ca’d him a war-lock to his face, and sakh he had putsuch a black bargain into ms haiid, thci'the was ruined for ever; insisted eitherto unmarry therr^ again^ ^r send deathand the bellman to take lier awa, forshe has a lump of mischief on her backand anither on her, breast, and the restof her body is a clean de’il. The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven: “ ye’re a baistliar,” says John, “for I was married inyour ain kitchen, and a’ the blackguardsin the town were there, an it had abeen a heaven they wadna win in, yettell me that matrimony was sic a happystate, but had ye gotten as mony weel2tpay’d skins, as I hae gotten, ye wad akend whauit was; HI chance on you, sirand out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking the Min¬ister’s windows for which he was caughtand put twa hours in the stocks, and atlast his lump of corruption came andrubbed his lugs, drew his nose, got himout, and dx-ove him home before her,took a resolution never to set him aboutany business in time coming, but keephim on his loom.1 *L ^‘: ;; {»; y , ;(_f .....• ti. ,r - . ^ ' * 4 • *; «•MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep all thatnight for scolding. John got up inthe morning lang or day, and left hisTormenter in bed, fell asleep upon hisloom wi’ the candle in his hand, andso set the web, heddles, reed, and trea¬dle cords in a fire. By chance his oldViper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone. Up shegets, and with her cries alarmed theneighbourhood who earnc to her relief;23bill poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XLAfter the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopt, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next day,having nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen’s nest, which had ta’ensome by-place to lay her eggs in : so aspoor John was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the. Avails, the kill-ribs broke,and doAvn he goes with a vengeanceinto the logic, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner * up he couldnot Avin, biit had to creep out at thelogic below, scarce able to get hame,his frice and nose all running of blood.In this condition she pitied and la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed ; then satdoAvh very kindly, saying, “ My dear,and my lamb, do you think there is onyof your banes broken ; and what partof you is saireSt ? And what Avill I get23to do good ? “ Oh !” said he, “ Girzy,I’m a’ brizzled ahveen the feet.” “Areye indeed?” quoth she, “ then I wishye had broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anither* useless ae way, anduseless Mae ways, upo’ my Avord, ye’snO be here, gang whare ye like.”MISFORTUNE XII.Now, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’ hirp-ling on a staff; one came and told himhis mother had died last night. Ohhoch ! said John, and is my mither cleandead! O an she wad but look downthrough the lift, and see how I’m guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she Wad senddeath for me too. I’m out o’ a mitherand out o’ a wife, out o’ my health andstrength, and a’ my warklooms. Hismother-in-law came and pleaded forhim: Haud your tongue, mither, saidGirzy, if ye kent what ail’d him ye wad-na speak about him, he’s useless, noworth the keeping in a house, but to ca'him to die like an auld beast at a dyke-24side. Hout toutj co’ the auld wife, we llmak o’ him and he’ll mend again. SoJohn got peace made up after a’, andhe was easier mended than the burnt■"iveb; got all'fdjs trfe,Jdld§,S,hH^7i^i^T6bhjstSrtin'nrdcr, the wile's tongue excepted,which w^ls madg.ptj\Yan3R»'OQd,,and %»rest of lier body of sea water, which isalways in a continual tempest. [jvSo John appeals to a Jedlmrah Jnvyif it be not easier 4o deal* fotks thanheadstrong fashions fouks; owns he hasbut an empty skull, but his wicked wifewants wit to pournever tellsupon him, for his mother -said he was abiddable bairn, if ony body had been tolearn him wit. A v: vFINIS.judgment into it,him o’ danger till it comeslT.'O08AJfO_ i? ii. i‘ n •0/vw’ •—