CHEAP TRACTS, NO. 6.g^iptovcdtSANDDISASTERS AT SEA;Comprising an Account ofA Winter in Greenland,ANDVreck of the Medusa Frigate, Sic.DUNFERMLINE :FRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.ISQS.Aceklenis &AT SEA,A Winter in Greenland,The ship Dundee of London* arrived at Ler¬wick in May 1827> from Davis* Straits, after jhaving experieftml tlk! greatest hardships during ja severe winter, it} a pfece where man never win-|tered before. Commander David Duncan.She was beset fniat. 74*, 30, and was iiberatedlin lat. 63 ; she drove, it) one solid body of ice,Ifrom August 23, 1826, till April 16, 1827-The Haarlem Dutch ship, of Herlingen, waslost close by the Dundee, on August 23. Thcrew saved no provisions, but came (to the num¬ber of 40) on board of her, from the 23rd Au¬gust to the 6th October ; as, however, therewas not the slightest appearance of the ice sepa-1rating, they resolved to set out for Levely,Danish settlement, about 350 miles distantthey took their departure in three open boawith the frost so in supportably intense, that it seemed doubtful whether they would reach Levely81 supplied them amply with pr: visions? #ttrf aetJfall hands to assist in dragging the boats to¬wards a lean, or opening of water. From themasthead I watched the parting of the two ships’eompanks, winch was-affecting in the extreme?and heightened by an acute sense of their m utwaldangers.’On Friday last we caoght a whale, and anotheron the Kith, which was a great relief to ourerew, as by tliat means we easgbt the sharkswhich came to feed on the dead fish. All of usat this period were frost-bitten, some severely sovWhile we Were disposing of the bloliber, wefound to our infinite regret that all the water inthe casks tvns congealed to a mass of solid ice \the lieads too burst j so they were hoisted ondeck for the cooper to repair.On February 22d an enormous ice-berg advan¬ced direct towards the vessel’s stern : all handswere instantly on the alert, and most of the crewleaped on the ice with which we were hemmedin, with their clothes in their hands, concludingas a matter of course, that' the ship would belost. We lowered also on the ice six cwt ofbread, and had scarcely effected our operations,when onwards with a tremendous Clash camethe ice-berg, cracking the ice in every direction.At this moment, a number of our men were be¬hind the gigantic mass, and made certain thatdie vessel was crushed to atoms : in a short time'however, they again saw her, and hailed herf { with three hearty cheers. When the ice-bergi ( gassed the ship, the cooper was working on theKiM/4ice ; k instantly ran over 30 tons of casks andone of the whale-beats, lines, &c. 1 he fewhands that remained on board assisted in loos¬ing the headsails, and as soon as there w as roomfor the ship to cant between the flaws of ice andthe berg, she did so, and escaped uninjured.Our escape was really miraculous, for often atdead of night have we been alarmed by the aw¬ful sound of the ice-bergs, as they came rushingwith the noise of thunder, towards ns, tearingup whole fields of ice in their way. With aview to obviate the danger, we were in the habitof going across the ice with lanterns, and mi¬nutely inspecting it in every possible direction.We did not see the sun for full 7-5 days, duringwhich time there was about four hours twilight;the frost was intense j the crew could not evenwalk the deck for five minutes without beingfrost-bitten. In short, we would all have pe-rished, had wre not luckily got some broken sparsand staves from the Dutch wreck, with whichwe cooked our victuals.The following heart-rendingparticulars respect¬ing the poor Dutchmen are from the MontroseReview :—The crew of the Dundee, as mayAVell be supposed, suffered severe privationsfrom want of provisions ; they killed immensenumbers of seals and bears, which formed a greatportion of their food ; but, what was to them adouble calamity, they were burdened for a con¬siderable time with the whole of their Dutchneighbours, who, from sheer want, obtrudedthemselves as guests, on Capt. Duncan. ItIdJIittiwas a hard task for an Englishman, even in thepeculiar circumstances in which the crew of theDundee were then placed, to tell a number ofhis fellow creatures on the point of starving,tlmt they could not ba allowed to share in Isiscoarse fare ; but Captain D. had a still hardertask to perform, in that he had to provide for thecertain and fast accumulating necessities of him¬self and his men ; and therefore, after allowingthe poor creatures to remain on boaid for a time—and after hesitating awhile betwixt pity andduty—he desired them to leave the ship. Butthey had not been long absent, when they againreturned, and implored his mercy aud protection—again their emaciated looks aud tale of miseryexcited his compassion—and they were a secondtime taken on board—but it was only for a shortperiod. Captain D. seeing that it was not inhis power to eke out a subsistence for the wh«le,again commanded them to depart; which they did.A faint idea may he formed of the appallingdifficulties and sufferings to which the Dutchcrew were exposed, in their open boat for a periodof nearly two months, during which they tra¬versed an extent of nearly 600 miles, undercircumstances of distress at which humanityshudders. One of the survivors was brought toPeterhead, by Captain Hogg, who, from thelittle English the Dutchman could be taught tospeak, has been able to collect but a very imper¬fect particulars. Deprived cf the assistance ofthe English, on which they hung nearly theirlast hope of safety, the Dutch crew betook them¬selves to their boats, and pushed for the nearest6Danish settlement. Their progress thitherwardwas one scene of danger and toil, while the ac¬cumulated evils of every succeeding' day threat-ened that termination of their sufferings, whichnature seemed no longer able to withstand. Theboats were drawn over large fields of ice, until aspot of open water could he found, in which,again afloat, they were soon impeded by the bayor lighter ice which formed around them, whenthe oars being no long-er useful to them, nor theice strong enough to allow their passage, thecrew were compelled to remain in their boats tillnext day, when all was solid, to admit their be¬ing taken on the ice and dragged on as before.For many days this labour and sorrow conti¬nued, until at last, a ray of hope of their deli¬verance being at hand, cheered their weary soulson their reaching the northernmost Danish set¬tlement, called Opiernawnck, in lat. 73 deg.The prospect of assistance here, proved howeveralmost quite delusive—the poor residents, a manand his wrife, having barely provisions for theirown subsistence during the winter, so that allthat they could do for them was to allow themto remain three days, to recruit their strengthsufficiently to attempt the next station. kSorneof the natives, called in the language of tire coun¬try Yacks, were sent forward with them asguides ; and after encountering a series of likecalamities to those to which they had alreadybeeti exposed, thev reached, about the !28th No¬vember, Four Island Points, in lat. 69 deg. adistance of l240 miles—Pefore they could gain!ii'7tliis station, it was necessary to cross an arm ofthe sea, and to have the assistance of boats,: placed for transporting the natives to that settle-i nii-iit. Two days elapsed before the customarysignals for the boats to come over could, fromthe state of the weather, be observed—and themiserable Dutchmen were compelled to remainduring that time in the open air, without pro-, visions. Several, it is understood, had fallenvictims to this aggravated distress, while othersdied after reaching the settlement; and thei survivors exhibited the lamentable effects of thei intense frost, either by the loss of part or thewhole of their toes and fingers, or of their limbs.Five or six, who had escaped unhurt, proceededI farther southward to Leevly, from which theyI got on board British ships this suminerr our;i informant being of the number.iOn the passage he conducted himself muchIf to Captain Hogg’s satisfaotion, and expressedI his gratitude for the kindness and attention hehad experienced. Soon after he came on board,the shipmates beheld him with astonishment,after getting a biscuit, deliberately cut off apiece of blubber from a whale they had justkilled, and placing it on the biscuit, eat it withthe greatest relish ; although, after being a shorttime accustomed to the ship’s provisions, henauseated that species of food as much as theother seamen.. A Dutch ship had been sent toFour Island Point to brinff home the morewretched part of the crew remaining there, thepitiable condition to which, it is said, they werereduced, being such as to render it difficult tohave them removed.WftECK OF THE M EEL'S A FaiGATE.The French possessions on the west coast.ofAfrica, extending from Cape Blanco to themo’.iiii of the Gambia, having been restored atthe general peace, an expedition, consisting of afrigate and three other vessels, was sent, in themonth of June, l8lG, to take possession ofthem. It was complete in all its parts, as theFrench expeditions usually are, including menof science, artisans, agriculturists, gardners,miners, &c. amounting, with the troops, tonearly two hundred persons, exclusive of thecrews. The naval part was entrusted to M.de Chaumareys, who had the command of thefrigate, La Medusa, of forty-four guns.Owing to a very relaxed state of discipline,and an ignorance of the common principles ofnavigation which would have disgraced a privatemerchant ship, this frigate was suffered to runaground on the bank of Arguiu. Attemptswere made to get her off, attempts, however,which, according to the narrative before us, wereas inefficient and discreditable to the navalofficers, as the gross ignorance which hadcarried the ship into that situation ; and it wassoon discovered that all hopes of saving her musthe abandoned, and that nothing remained but to*concert measures for tire escape of the passengersand crew. Some biscuit, wine, and fresh waterwere got up, and prepared for putting into theboats, and upon a raft which had been hastilyconstructed ; but, in the tumult of abandoningthe wreck, it happened that the rare, which wasdestined to carry the greatest number of people,had the least share of provisions; of wine, in¬deed, it had more than enough, but not a singlebarrel of biscuit. No embarkation list bad beenmade out—no disposition of any kind for thedistribution of those on board. •>There were five boats ; in the first were thegovernor of Senegal and his family, in all thirty-five ; it might (says our authors) have carriedtwice as many ; the second took forty-two ; thethird twenty-eight; the fourth, the long-boat,eighty-eight; the fifth twenty-five; and thejolly boat fifteen, among whom were M. Picard,his wife, four children, and three young ladies.The military had, in the first instance, beenplaced upon the raft—the number embarked onthis fatal machine was not less than one hun¬dred and fifty ; making, with those in the boats,a total of three hundred and ninety-seven.On leaving the wreck, M. Correard, geo¬graphical engineer, one of the writers of thenarrative, who had volunteered to accompanyhis men on the raft, wishing to he assured thatproper instruments and charts for navigating ithad been put on hoard, was told by the captainthat every thing necessary had been provided,and a naval officer appointed to take charge ofthem ; this naval officer, however, jumped into'one of the boats, and never joined them.The boats pushed off’ in a line, towing theraft, and assuring the people on board that theywould conduct them safely to land. They hud10pat proceeded, however, above two leagues fromthe wreck when they, one by one, cast off theiow-lines. It was afterwards pretended thatthey broke; had this even been true, theboats might at any time have rejoined the raft;instead of which they all abandoned it to its fate,,eyery one striving to make off with allpossible speed.At the time, the raft had sunk below thesurface to the depth of three feet and a half, andthe people were so squeezed, one against theother, that it was found impossible to move;fore and aft, they were up to the middle in water.In such a deplorable situation, it was withdifficuity they could persuade themselves thatthey had been abandoned; nor would they be¬lieve it until the whole of the boats had disap¬peared from their view. The}* now began toconsider themselves as deliberately sacrificed,and swore to be revenged on their unfeelingcompanions, if ever they gained the shore.Their consternation soon became extreme.Every thing that was horrible took possessionof their minds j all conceived their destructionto be at hand, find announced by their wailingthe dismal thoughts by which they were dis¬tracted. The officers with great difficulty, andby putting on a show of confidence, succeededat length in restoring them to a certain degreeof tranquility ; but they were themselves over¬come with alarm on finding that they had neither.uhart nor compass, nor anchor on the raft.Une of the men belonging to M. Correared had'ivufitftuuaiely j^reserveii a small pocket-compitfcs, andtlya little iustruineutiaspired iJjom with so muchjeofifidence, tiiat they conccivcU their safety tol4epe/ul on, it} but this treasure, above all price,speedily suatclied from tljeea for ever, itM from the man’s Itaml, and disappeared be-.tween the openings of the raft.None of the party had taken food before theyleft the skip, and hunger beginning to oppressdiem, they mixed the biscuit, of which they hadlabout five and twenty pounds on board, withiwiye, and distributed' it, in small portions toleach man. < Such,* says the narrator, ‘wasour first repast, and the best we made duringour- whole abode upon the raft.* They thoughtthemselves, however, not quite lost: and thehope of speedy vengeance on those who had soi basely deserted them, tended to revive theirjeourage. They succeeded in erecting a kind ofroast, and hoisting one of the royals that hadbelonged to the frigate.Night at length came on, the wind freshened,(land the sea began to swell; the only consola¬tion now was the belief that they should discoverlithe boats the following morning. About mid-,i.night the weather became very stormy ; and the; waves broke over them in every direction.‘ During the whole of this night,’ say thenarrators, ‘ we struggled against death, beddingourselves closely to spars which were bound.firmly together. Tossed by the waves fromione end to tire other, and sometimes precipitatedinto the sea } floating between life and death }11—- - — —   .12jTHOurning over our own misfortunes, certain ofperishing-, yet contending: for the remains of exis¬tence with that cruel element, which menaced toswallow us up ; such was our situation till breakof day—horrible situation ! how shall we oonvey itan idea of it which will not fall short ofdie reality.’*In the morning: the wind abated, and the seasubsided a little, but a dreadful spectacle pre-:sented itself—ten or twelve of the unhappy men, fehaving their lower extremities jammed betweenthe spars of the raft, unable to extricate them- «selves, had perished in that situation; several ifothers had been swept away by the violence ofthe waves. In calling over the list it was found Ithat twenty had disappeared. * Already says thenarrator, with exquisite simplicity, already was kthe moral character of the people greatly chang¬ed ! Two y#ong men threw themselves into thesea, after deliberately taking leave of their comifHides; some fancied thev saw the land ; andothei s, ships approaching to rescue them.All this, however, was nothing to the dread¬ful scene which took place the following night.The day had been beautiful, and no one seemedto doubt that the boats would appear in the courseof it, to relieve them from their perilous situa¬tion ; but the evening approached, and none wereseen; from that moment a spirit ot sedetion spreadfrom man to man, and manifested itself by themost furious shout; night came on ; the heavenswere obscured with thick clouds ; the wind rose,,and with it the sea; the waves broke over them<■1 "very moment; numbers were swept away, par*licularly near the extremities of the raft ;i |nd the crowding towards the centra of it was1 to great, that several poor wretches were smo-iliered by the pressure of their comrades, whowere unable to keep upon their legs.Firmly persuaded that they were all on theK)int of being swallowed up, both soldiers andailors resolved to soothe their last moments bydrinking till they had lost their reason. 1 hey• »ored a hole in tbe head of the cask, from which'they continued to swill till the salt water, mix-:jag w ith the wine, rendered it no longer }>a’atabi«.Oxcited by the fumes, acting on empty stomachs,lt||nd heads already disordered by danger, theyvow !*ecan»e deaf to the voice of reason ; boidiyee'ared their intention of murdering theit officers,i nd then cutting the ropes which held the raftstogether : one of them, seizing an axe, actuallyjlijegan the dreadful work—this whs the signal>r revolt; the oificers rushed forward to rjuellUpe tumult, and the man with the hatchet w asme first that fell—the stroke of a sabre termi¬nated his existence.The passengers joined the officers, but theKhutirieers were still the greater number; luckily/j ley were but badly armed, or the few bayonets1 ul sabres of the opposite party could not have< ejit them at bay. One fellow was detectedi icretly cutting the ropes, ami immediately flungI/erboard ; others destroyed the shrouds anddyard; and the mast destitute of support im-icdiately fell on a captain of infantry and broke14thigh ; he was instantly seized by the soldiersand thrown into the sea, but was saved by the-1opjwsite party. A furious oiiarg-e was nowmade ujKtji the routineers, many of whom werecut down: at length this fit of desperationsubsided, and was succeeded by the mostegregious cowardice: they cried out formercy, and asked forgiveness ou their knees, rit was now midnight, and order appeared to Ire irestored; but after an hour of deceitful tran- >xjuility, the insurrection burst forth anew: they|rushed upon, the officers like desperate men, each jhaving a kniie or a sabre in his hand, and suchwas the fury of die assailants, that diey tore fleshand even their clotlies with their teeth: there wasno time for hesitation f a genial slaughter tookplace, and the raft was strewed with dead bodies, !•Some palliation roust lie allowed on account oftheir mieerahle condition ; the constant dread ofili.itlt, and want of rest and food hail impforodijtheir faculties-—nor did the officers theniselveiientirely escape. A sort of half-waking dream,1a wandering of the imagination, seized most oftthem : some fancied they saw around them alieautiful country, covered with the most delight¬ful plantations ; others became wild with horrors,,and threw themselves into the sea- .Several, om.casting themselves off, said cal inly to their com¬panions, ‘I AVt GOING TO SEEK FOR ASSIST ANGE„ tAND YOU SHALL SOON SEE ME RETURN.’‘ In the midst of this general madness,’ says:1,the narrative, ‘one saw these unhappy menilrushing upon their companions- sword in hand,,,and demanding from them the wing of achickepg15| appease die hunger that was preying upon4in; others asked for their hammocks, that!y might go between decks and get a littleip; many imagined themselves to be still onird the Medusa. Even after this fatal nightliny imagined themselves, in the morning,ijakened from a frightful dream, in winch battles! slaughter had disturbed their rest.’On the return of the day it was found, that in« course of the preceding night of h< ivor, sixty-i e of the mutineers had perished, and two of» small party attached to the officers. Beforeiij allowance was served out they contrived to(; up their mast afresh; but having no oompass,rnot knowing how to direct their course, theythe raft drive before the wind, apparently in-i&reut whither they went. Enfeebled wfejjjiger, they now tried to catch fish, bid couldi succeed, and abandoned the atteuifit,lit was necessary, however, that some extremeinsure should beadopted toprolong our miserable«lstence; we shudder with horror ou findingW selvas under the necessity of relating whfdtj put iu practice ; we feel the pen drop fromi f hands ; a deadly coldness freezes all ourimbs, and our hair^ stands on end—Reader, welitreat do not entertajn, for men already too mi-ntunate, a sentiment of indignation ; but1 eve for them, and shed a tear of pity over.ti‘ir unhappy lot.’fill he ‘extreme measure/ was, indeed, horrible :itj* unhappy men, whom death had spared ini * course of the night, fell upon the carcases ofdead, and began to devour them ; some triedIf)to eat their sword-belts and cartridge-boxes ;-iothers devoured their linen, and others tilleathers of theii hats ; hut all these expedientand others of a still more loathsome natur iwere of no avail.A third night of horror now approached ; Init proved to he a night of tranquility, disturbsonly by the piercing cries of those whom hnngt ,iand thirst devoured. The water was up to the!knees, and they could only attempt to get alittlsleep by crowding together, so as to form an hiimoveable mass. The morning’s sun shewe! >th cm ten or n dozen unfortunate creature!strAtrh'sl lifeless on the raff; all of whom wetcommitted to the deep, with the exception of on*destined for the support of those who the eveninbefore had pressed his trembling hands in vowineternal friendship. At this period, fortanateba shoal of Hving fish, in passing the raft. It-nearly three htindrvsl entangledl)etwaen thesparBv means of a little gunpowder and linen, an ,bv erecting an empty cask, they contrived tmake a fire ; and mixing with the fidi the fle‘of their deceased comrade, they all partook ofmeal, which by this means, was rendered le?revolting.The fourth night was marked by another ma:sacre. Some Spaniards, Italians, and negroewho had taken no part with the former mut:neers, now entered into a conspiracy to thro>the rest into the sea. The negroes had persiKded the others that the land was close to thenand that once on shore, they would answer f<their crossing Africa without the least dange' ■ - “ J17: 4. ' 'V; .,j1 Spaniard w.is the first to advance vith a dra<vnin ire ; the sailors seized him, and threw him intofte sea. An Italian, seeing' this, jumped over-ipard ; the rest were easily mastered, and orderas once more restored.P Thirty persons only now remained, many ofihom were in the most deplorable state, the salt-i! ater having entirely removed the epidermis ofteir lower extremities, which, with contusionsid bruises, rendered them unable to supportemselves. The remains of the fish and winei ere calculated to be just enough to support life^ r four days ; but in these four they also cal-dated that ships might arrive from St. LouisI save them. At this moment two soldiersere discovered behind the cask of wine, throughlihich they had bored a hole, for the purpose ofmilking it through a reed ; they had just l»eforeHedged themselves to punish with death whoevermould he found guilty of the like proceeding,W the sentence was immediately carried intol ocution by throwing the culprits into the sea.I Their number was thus reduced to twenty-Ifeht, only fifteen of whom appeared able to existir a few days ; the other thirteen were so re-iced, that they had nearly lost all sense ofistence ; as their case was hopeless, and asfile they lived they would consume a part ofi little that was left, a council was held, ander a deliberation at which the most horribleIlls pair is said to have presided, it was decidedill throw' them overboard. “ 'Ihree sailors andwoldier undertook the execution of this cruelajitence; w'e turned atvay our eyes and shed18tears of blood at the fate of these uufortunatmen ; but this painful saeritice saved the Hfteeithat remained ; and who, after this dreadfucatastrophe, had six days suffering to underg'before they were relieved from their dismasituation.’ At the end of this period, a smallvessel at a distance ; she proved to be the Arguij.brig, which had been despatched from Senegs|to look out for them. All hearts on board wer|.melted with pity at their deplorable condition.—‘ Let any one,’ say our unfortunate narrator*‘ figure to himself fifteen unhappy creatures amost naked, their bodies shrivelled by the rayof the sun, ten of them scarcely able to moveour limbs stripped of their skin ; a total changjin all our features ; our eyes hollow and aimo>savage; our long beards which gave us an a;almost hideous—we were in fact but thshadow of ourselves.’Such is the history of these unfortunate rnerOf the hundred and fifty who embarked on th iraft, fifteen only were received on board the brig ,and of these six died shortly after their arrivat St. Louis ; and the remaining nine covenwith cicatrices, and exhausted by the suff'erKkato which they had been so long exposed, aistated to be entirely altered in appearanceconstitution. We are shocked to add, that suej.was the neglect and indifference of their shipmates who had arrived there in safety, that h;;tit not been for the humane attention of Maj<jiPfeddy and Captain Campbell, they would in aprobability have experienced the fate of theunfortunate companions.19Of the boats, two only (those in which thevernor and the captain of the frigate had em-ked) arrived at Senegal: the other four madee shore in different places, and landed theirople. They suffered extremely from hungerd thirst, aid the effects of a burning sun re-) beted on the surface of naked sand ; with thetception, however, of two or three, they alliched Senegal.The governor, recollecting that the Medusaid on board two hundred thousand francs inlecie, sent off'a little vessel t» visit the wreck ;it (that no part of this wretehed expeditionight reflect disgrace on another) with only eightys’ provision on board ; so that she was com¬bed to return without being able to approachshe was again sent out with twenty-fivejiys* provis’cns, but being ill found, and thether bad, she returned to port a second time,n the third attempt she reached the wreck ;ty-tvvo days after it had been abandoned ; buthat were the horror and astonishment of thoseho ascended it, to discover on board three mis-rable wretches just on the point of expiring!I It now appeared that seventeen men had clangW the wreck when boats and raft departed; their*st object had been to collect a sufficient qiran-? biscuit, wine, brandy and pork for theiristenanee for a certain number of days. Whilelis lasted, they were quite ; but forty-two dayswing passed without any succour appearing,velve of the most determined, seeing themselvesi the point of starving, resolved to make forml : they therefore constructed a raft, or float,20which they bound together with ropes, and o jwhich they set oft' with a small quantity of pro ,uvisions, without oars or sails, and were drowne*Another, who refused to embark with them, too |iit into his head, a few days after, to try for thishore ; he placed himself on a hen-coop, droppefrom the wreck, and at the distance of halfcable’s length from it, sunk to rise no mortThe remaining four resolved to die by the wreckone of them had just expired when the vessefrom Senegal arrived ; the other three were sexhausted, that a few hours more must liav •put an end to their misery.Loss of the Lady Hobart Packet.This packet, on her voyage from Halifax foiEngland, struck against an island of ice, antfoundered, on the morning of Tuesday the 28tlof June, 1803, in lat. 40 deg. 33', long. 4"deg., being then three hundred and fifty league-distant from Newfoundland. The captain, willtwenty-eight passengers and crew, had just timito save themselves in the cutter and jolly-boabefore she went down. During this calamit;the men behaved with a coolness, composureand obedience to orders, that could not be suitpassed ; and one of the men, while the boats wer:hoisting out, emptied a demi-jean (or bottle) crum of five gallons, for the purpose of filling i '21li water, and which afterwards proved theiratest supply.| Captain Fellowes, three ladies, captainliomas of the navy, and fourteen others, em-fked in the cutter, twenty feet long, and twot six inches deep, and brought her gunwaleM within six or seven inches of the water,iie master, lieutenant-colonel Cooke of thelJards, and nine others, took to the jolly-boat,rteen feet long, five feet three inches deep.I Their provisions, &e., consisted of betweenf ty and fifty pounds of biscuit; the demi-jeanh five gallons of water, a small jug of thee, part of a small barrel of spruce beer, ai-]ean of rum, a few bottles of port wine ji/i) compasses, a quadrant, and spy glass ; aHall tin mug, and a wine glass ; a tinder-box,jl deck lanthorn, and candles,undsomematehes,. bt in a bladder (by which they were enabledteer by night), and a few nails and tools,one was permitted to take more than a greator a blanket, with the clothes on his back,t was agreed that their allowances should beed out with the greatest economy, at the ratealf a biscuit and a glass of wine each pernty-four hours ; and that the water should bet in reserve. The trapawling of the mainhway, which had been thrown into the boat,cut into lengths to form a bulwark againstwaves, and proved of great service to them,layers were regularly said by one of the ladies,si heir bag of biscuit got damaged by salt-water,made it necessary to curtail their allow-2-2snce, and which was cheerfully agreed tc?. P{ jof a cold ham was found on hoard ; but, aftdtaste of it being given, it was thrown overboarleas? it should increase their thirst without tmeans of alfeyrug it.The weather was at times wet, cold, ami wfog and sleet. The cutter could sail, butonly two oars-. The jolly-btrat, which had thioars and a small sasl,. &c., was frequently obligto he taken in tow'.The third day they Were much benumbed wwet and extreme cold ; and the ladies were tbprevailed Upon to take the stated allowancespirits, which they had before refused. It aiSded them immediate relief.The fourth day was stormy, foggy, and \vheavy seas, and the spray of the sea freezingit flew over tlie boats. All felt a depressionspirits. In the commencement of the storm, icutter having shipped a heavy sea, was oblig tito cast off the jolly-boat’s tow-rope ; whenwas lost hr a foif, which occasioned much ctress, and particularly as she had on boardconsiderable part of their stores, the quadnand spy-glass. The men began to be deject,but were roused to duty ami to- exertion, i!ladies behaved with great heroism,, and affortithe best examples of patience and forti tude,joined in prayer, which tranquilized their mitifand afforded them the best consolatory hopesbettering their condition.The fifth day it rained, and was so cold, tiii the boat could scarcely move : tl:fplanets and feet became swelled and black, fv&mveir coufineti state,, and exposure to the weather,lit day-break one third of a wine-glass of rumml a *pmrter of a biscuit Were served out ; andi It noon some spruce beer, which afforded greati idief.This day they discovered a sail j and, byf means of one of the ladies’ shawls they madeU signal ; tend, on nearhig, it wits* found, with:treat joy, to be their jolly-boat. The sensationsf joy a»d disappointment were beyond express¬ion. The distress in each during the separa-Jien of two nights, had been nearly equal. The^lly boat was again taken in tow, and a morequal distribution of provisions was made.In the evening, rock-weed,, ami birds, such astfe frequently eaten by the fishermen on thenanks of ISewfoundland, were seen, which af-ti ded great hopes ; and the few who were able> move, were now called upon, and roused to-lake their last efforts to rave themselves byI jwing, and to take every advantage of the littlei recite they then had.i They had been six days and six nights eon-Jantly wet and cold, without any other sus-nance than a quarter of a biscuit and one glass'fluid for twenty-four hours ; and their stock| ould not, with the greatest economy, haveIsted two days longer.In the night they had been under theS iccssity of casting off the jolly-boat’s tow-rope,ij * enduce her crew to exert themselves by rowing.HSeventh Day. Their separation in the nigl:gave great uneasiness. The sun rose in viefor the second time since they quitted the shiDuring the seven days they had been in the:boats, they could take no observation of suimoon, or stars, and could not dry their clotheWhen the fog dispersed, they saw land at a milldistance, and at the same moment their jollboat and a schooner in shore standingtowards them.Their sensations were at that moment iteresting and affecting, and joy discovered its<in various ways. All joined with great devition in thanks to Heaven for their miraculoqescape. The schooner, being now within haitook both the boats in tow, and landed thecrew in the evening at Island Cove, in Conception Bay.The men could with great difficulty be rtstrained at first from taking large and repeatsdraughts of water ; in consequence of whicseveral felt great incouvenience ; but being atte;wards more cautious, no other bad effects falowed. Every attention and kindness were paito these twenty-nine miserable objects.FINIS.