CRAWFORD'S TRACTS.No. 5.CHRIST IS ALLWITH* RECOMMENDATORY PREFACE,BTDR. PECKWELL.A NEW EDITION.• PTO THE READER.TIThatever thy situation in life may** be, th^re is but one refuge for thysoul—one sacrifice for thy sins—one ad¬vocate with thy God, Jesus Christ theRighteous.By men of pleasure he is despised andrejected, to the Jew a stone of offence, tothe Gentile an object of ridicule ; but tothem who are called, Christ, the power ofGod, and the wisdom of God—to themhe is made righteousness, sanctification,and redemption.In him there is neither Jew nor Greek,circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbar¬ian, Scythian, bond nor free, butCHRIST IS ALL.That in perusing the following invalu-* able little Tract, He may become betterknown, more admired, 'and more belovedby thee, is the most sincere and ardentprayer ofHENRY PECKWELL.Jv,.CHRIST IS ALL.N the Lord shall all the seed of Israel- be justified, and shall glory, Isa. xlv.L 26. It is only the dying of that Justine for us who are unjust, that can bringg to God, 1 Pet. iii. 13. He who knew0 sin was made sin for us, that we, whorere nothing but sin, might be made thei^iteousness of God in Him, 2 Cor. v. 21.Christ is the Father’s fulness of gracend glory. He must have the pre-emi-lence. He alone is worthy, who is tomild the spiritual temple of the Lord,nd to bear the glory. Every vessel ofhis temple, from the cups to the flaggons,crust all be hung on Christ. He, by hisfather’s appointment, is the foundation-i.one, corner-stone, top-stone.|| Reader ! dost thou profess the name ofr'hrifit ? and partake of his ordinances ?luke i. 6. Thou doest well. They aretlorious privileges. But if thou hastae blood of Christ, 1 John i. 7. 1 Cor. HL,1. at the root of thy profession, it wiHhither and prove unprofitable.1 Many are tossed too and fro, ready n>t carried about with everv wind of dc%'4-tfii'le, by the slights of men, and cunnini, craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to dj I:< ceive, Eph. iv. 14. There are many four ;dations to build upon that are false, upojpwhich much labour is spent in vain; somliare nc^: speaking the truth in love; neither• are they growing up into him in all thing;Lwho is the Head, even Christ, Eph. iv i15. There cannot be a growing in Christ siwithout an union with him. Without tha i*ill that we do is accursed.union.If thou retain guilt and self-righteousness under thy profession, those vipe:will eat out all the vital of it. Try, anexamine with the greatest strictness everday, what foundation thy profession amthe hope of thy glory are built upon, 1 Co:in. 11. whether it were laid by the hanof Christ; if not, it will never be able tendure the storm which will come agains Iit. Satan will throw it all down, and grea 1will be the fall thereof, Matth. vii. 27. !Consider, the greatest sins may be hi' 1under the greatest duties and the greaves iterrors. See that the wound which si;hath made in thy soul be perfectly cure«the blood of Christ, it will poison th "sore. Thou wilt find that sin was ncvimortified truly, if thou hast not seeChrist bleeding for thee upon the cro:Nothing can kill it but a sight of ChristIhteouaness.s, Nature can afford no balsam fit for scul-• cu>e. Healing from duty, and not from,) Christ, is the most desperate disease. P«orragged nature, with ail 4s highest irp-j provements, can never spin a garment finei enough (without spot) to cover the soul’s| nakedness. Nothing can do it but Christ’si perfect righteousness.If thou hast seen Christ truly, thou hastseen pure grace, pure righteousness ini him, every wav infinite, far exceeding allsin and misery. If thou hast seen Christ,thou wilt trample upon all the righteous*ness of men and angels, as to thine accep¬tation with God. If thou hast seen Christ,thou wouldst not do a duty without himfor ten thousand worlds, I Cor. ii. 2. If: ever thou hast seen Christ, thou hast seenHim a rock higher than self-righteousness.: Satan, and sin, Psalm Ixi. 2. and this rockand defbnee doth follow thee, 1 Cor. x,J 4-, and there will be a continual drop/*j ping of honey and grace out of that rock. to satisfy thee, Psalm lx xxi. 16. Exam-jine, if ,ever thou hast beheld Christ, asthpUhe only begotten of the Father, full of;grace and truth, John i. 14<, 16, 17. Comeno Christ, and give ail diligence to make(thy calling sure, 2 Pet. i. 10. Stand up¬on the rock of ?ges.Men talk much about believing whilst.-whole and sound ; f&w do it—•firist is the6mystery of Scripture; grace is the myslei •of Christ. Believing is the most wondei■ ful thing in the world. Put any thing cthine to it, and thou spoilest it, Chriiwill not esteem it believing. When tho.believest, and com«t to Christ, thou musleave behind thee thine own righteousnes; H(O! that is hard !) all thy holiness, sanctltiilcation, duties, tears, humblings, &and bring nothing but thy sins, thy wanand miseries, else Christ is not fit for thenor thou for Christ. Christ will be a perfeet Redeemer and Mediator, and thmust be an undone sinner, or Christ anthou will never agree. It is the hardesthing in the world to take Christ alone forighteousness; that is, to acknowledge!him Christ.Whatsoever comes in, when thou goest |to God for acceptance, besides Christ,call it Antichrist; bid it begone; makeonly Christ’s righteousness triumphant.All besides that is Babylon, which mustlfall, if Christ stand, and thou shalt re¬joice in the day of the fall thereof. Christalone did tread the wine-press, and therewas none with him, Isa. Ixiii. 3, If thoujoin any thing to Christ, Christ will tram¬ple upon it in fury and anger, and stainhis raiment with the blood thereof. Ihouthinkest it easy to believe—was thy faithever tried with an hour of temptation, anda thorough sight of sin ? Was if ever pulto resist Satan, and to frei the wrath of! God lying upon thy conscience ? Whenthou wert apprehensive of hell and thegrave, then did God shew thee Christ ai ransom, a righteousness, &c. Then couldst1 thou say, ‘ Oh! I see grace enough inChrist ?' If so, thou mayest say thatwhich is the greatest word in the world,I believe. Untried faith is uncertainfaith.To believing, there must go a clearconviction of sin and the merits of theblood of Christ, and of Christ’s willing*-ness to save a man, considered merely asa sinner. A thing more difficult than tomake a world. AH the power in naturecannot get so high, in a storm of sin andguilt, as really to believe there is any gracp,any willingness in Christ to save.All temptations, Satan’s advantages, andour complainings, are laid in self-righte¬ousness and self-excellency. God pursu-eth these by many ways, as Laban pur¬sued after Jacob for his images. These*must be tom from thee, be as unwillingas thou wilr. With these Christ will notdwell, and till Christ come in, guilt willabide. Where guilt is, there is hardnessof heart; therefore much guilt argues lit¬tle, if any thing, of Christ.When guile is raised up take heed of. 8getting it aliayed any way but by Christ's i'blood; all other ways tend to harden the l*conscience. Make Christ thy peace, Eph. jiii. 4. not thy duties, thy tears, &c. Thou ilmayest oppose Christ by duties as well as Sby sins. Look at Christ, and do as much [as thou wilt. Stand with all thy weight jupon Christ’s righteousness. Take heedof having one foot on thine own righteous¬ness, another on Christ’s. Till Christ 1come and sit upon a throne of grace in theconscience, there is nothing but guilt,terrors, secret suspicions, the soul hang¬ing between hope and fear, which is notan evangelic state.—-Whoever is afraid tosee sin’s utmost vilencss, and to confessthe desperate wickedness of his own heart,suspects the merits of Christ.However so great a sinner thou art, 1John ii. 1. make Christ thine advocate,and thou wilt find him Jesus Christ therighteous. In all doubtings, fears, stormsof conscience, look at Christ only andcontinually: do npt argue it with Satan,he desires no better; bid him to go toChrist, and he will answer hin* It is hisoffice to be our advocate, to answer thelaw as our surety, Heb. vii. 22. and jus¬tice, as our Mediator, Gal. iii. 20. 1 Tim.ii. 5. He is sworn to that office, Heb. vii.20,21. Put Christ upon it. If thou wiltdo any thing thyself, as satisfaction for9ein, thou renouncest OhrUt the righteous,who was made sin for thee*- 2 Cor. v. 21.Satan may quote, and corrupt, but hecannot answer Scripture. It is Christ’sword of mighty authority. Christ foilethSatan with it, Matth. iv. 10. In all theScripture there is not a hard word againsta poor sinner, stript of self-righteousness.Nay, it plainly points him out to be thesubject of the grace of the gospel, andnone else. Believe but Christ's willing¬ness, and that thou canst believe $ remem¬ber it is Christ’s work to make thee be¬lieve. He works to will and to do of hisgood pleasure, Phil. ii. 13. By grace thouart saved through faith, and that not ofyourself, it is the gift of God. Pleadwith him for that gift, Eph. ii. 8, Christis the author and finisher of faith, puthim to it. Mourn for thine unbelief,which is setting up guilt in the conscienceabove Christ, undervaluing the merits ofChrist, accounting his blood an unholy, acommon, and unsatisfying thing.Thou complainest much of thyself; doththy sin make thee look more at Christ,less at thyself, that is right; otherwise,complaining is but hypocrisy. To be look¬ing at duties, graces, enlargements, whenthou shouldst be looking at Christ, is s elf-righteousness, and pitifully looking at themwill make thee proud; looking at Christ's1gface will make thee humble. In all thytemptation be not discouraged, James i. 2. ijTht se surges may be, not to drown thee, {1but to heave thee off from thyself on the irock Christ.Thou mayest be brought low, even to |the .brink of destruction, ready to fall. SThou canst not be brought lower than the |belly of hell, Jonah ii. 2. Many saints jhave been there. Yet there thou mayest jcry, from thence thou mayest look again !towards the holy temple, Jonah ii. 4. ]Into that temple which was built withhands, none might enter but purified ones, •and with an offering too, Acts xxi. 26.But now Christ is our temple, sacrifice,altar, high-priest, to whom none mustcome but sinners, and that without anyoffering but his own blood once offered,Heb. vii. 17.Remember all the patterns of grace thatare in heaven. Thou thir.kest, ‘ Oh !what a monument of grace should I be!*There aft many thousands as much so asthou canst be. No guilt ever exceededthe merits of Christ’s blood, no sin couldever conquer the invisible power of hisgrace. Do not despair. Hope still —When the clouds are blackest, even thenlook towards Christ, the standing pillar ofthe Father’s love and grace, set up inheaven for all sinners to gazp upon eon- ± ltinuaH/. Whatsoever S<itaa or o«5rt$oit.ncesay, do not conclvide against thyself.—Christ will have the last word. He isjudge of quick and dead, and must pro¬nounce the final sentence. His bloodspeaks reconciliation, Col. i. 20. cleans¬ing, 1 John i 7, purchase, Acts xx. 18.| redemption, 1 Peter i. 18, purging, Heb.x. 19. justificcRion, Rom. v. 9. nearnessto God, Eph. ii. 13. Stand and hearkenwhat God will say, for he will speak peaceto his people, that they return no moreto folly, Psalm Ixxxv. 8. He speaks grace,mercy, and peace, 2 Tim. i. 2. That isthe language of the Father and of Christ.Wait for Christ’s appearing as the morn¬ing star. Rev. xxii. 16. He will come ascertainly as the morning, as refreshing asthe rain, Hos. vi. 3. The sun may as wellbe hindered from rising as Christ the sunof righteousness, Mai. iv. 2. Look not a.moment off Christ. Look not upon sin,but look upon Christ first. When thoumournest for sin, if thou dost not seeChrist then away with it, Zech. vii. 10.In every duty, look at Christ j beforeduty, to pardon ; in duty, to assist; afterduty, to accept. Without this it is butcarnal, careless duty. Do not legalizethe gospel, as if part remained for thee todo and suffer, and Christ were but a halfMediator; as if thou must bear part oftion. Let sin break thy heart, but notthy hope in the gospel.Look more at iustlfication than sancti¬fication. In the highest commands con¬sider Christ, rot as an exacter, to require,but as a debtor, an undertaker, to work.If thou hast looked at thy resolutions, en¬deavours* workings, duties, qualifications,&c. more than at the merits of Christ, itwill cost thee de«r. No wonder thougoest mourning : graces may be eviden¬ces, the merits of Christ alone withoutthem must be the foundation of thy hope.Christ only can be the hope of glory, Col,i. 27.If nature had been to contrive the wayof salvation, it would rather have put itinto the hands of saints and angels to sell !it, than into the hands of Christ, who givesfreely, whom therefore it suspects. Na¬ture would set up a way to purchase bydoing ; therefore it abominates the meritsof Christ, as the most destructive thing toit. Nature would do any thing to be sav¬ed, rather than go to Christ, or close withChrist, and owe all to him. Christ willhave nothing, but the soul would thrustsomewhat of its own upon Christ. Hereis the great controversy. Consider—didstthou ever yet see the merits of Christ, andthe infinite satisfaction made by his death?didst thou see this when the burden of sinand the wrath of God lay heavy on thyconscience f that is grace • the greatnessof Christ’s merits is not known but to apoor soul in great distress. Slight con¬victions will have but a slight low esteemof Christ's blood and merits.We apprehend sin too great to be par¬doned.—We think Christ doth so, andmeasure infinite iove with our line, infi¬nite merits with our sins, which is thegreatest pride and blasphemy, Psalm ciii.11. 22. Isa. xl. 15. Hear what he saith,‘ I have found a ransom,’ Job xxxiii. 24.‘ In him I am well pleased,’ Matth. iii. 17.God will have nothing else. Nothing elsewill do thee good, or satisfy conscience,but Christ, W'ho satisfied the Father.—God doth all upon the account of Christ.Thy deserts are rejection, wrath, hell.—Christ’s deserts are acceptance, pardon,life. He will not only shew thee the one,but he w’ill give thee the other. It isChrist’s own glory and happiness to pardon.Consider—whilst Christ was upon theearth, he was more among publicans andsinners than Scribes and Pharisees, his pro¬fessed adversaries, for they were righteousones. It is not as thou imaginest, thathis state in g’ory makes him neglectful,scornful to poor sinners. No, He haththe same heart now in heaven. He is God,/and changeth not He is * the Lamb oaiflGod that taketh the sin of the world.’—John i. 29. He went through all thyMtemptations, dejections, sorrows, deseMjttions, rejections, Matth. iv. 3, to 12* and|t27. Mark xv. 34*. Luke xxii. 44. Matth. |xxvi 36. He hath drunk the bitterest of |the cup, and left thee the sweet: the con- ijdemnation is out. Christ drunk up all |the Father’s wrath at one draught; andnothing but salvation is left for thee.—Thou sayest I cannot believe, I cannot re- ljpent; Christ is exalted a Prince and aSaviour, to give repentance and remissionof sins, Acts v. 31. Hast thou noughtbut sin and misery ? Go to Christ withall thy impenitency and unbelief, to getfaith and repentance from him; that isglorious. Tell Christ, ‘ Lord I havebrought no righteousness, no grace to beaccepted in or justified by ; I am come forthine, and must have it.’ We would bebringing to Christ, and that must not be.Not a penny of nature’s highest improve¬ments will pass in heaven, grace wriil notstand with woik<, Fit iii. 5, Rom. xi. 6.That is a terrible point to nature, whichcannot think of being stripped of all, nothaving a rag of duty ar righteousness leftto look at.Self-iighteousness and self-sufficiencyare the darlings of nature, which she pre-■ jeerrei is l.er life. That makes Chrllt seem- ugly" to* nature. Nature cannot desire him.He is just opposite to all nature’s gloriousinterest. Let nature but make a gospel,« and it would make ft quite contrary toj Christ, it would be to the just, the inno-; cent, the holy, &c. Christ makes thej gospel for thee, that is, for needy sinners,: the ungodly, the unrighteous, the accursed.Nature cannot endure to think the gos¬pel is only for sinners. It will rather chuseto despair, than to go to Christ upon suchterms. When nature is pat to it by guiltor wrath, it will go to its old haunts ofself-righteousness, self-goodness, &c —An infinite power must cast down thosestrong holds. None but the self-justiciarystands excluded by the gospel. Christ willilook at the most abominable sinner beforehim •, because to such an one Christ can-i not be made justification.Labour after sanctification to thy ut-! most; but make not a Christ of it to savei thee: If so, it must come dowa one wayi or other. Christ’s obedience and suffer-i ings, not thy sanctification, must be thysanctification before God. For if theLord should appear terrible put of His holyplace, fire would consmne it as hay andstubble. This is religion, ‘ to build allupon the everlasting naountains of God’sI 1'ove and grace in Christ, to look contihu-Silly at Christy infinite righteousness anmerits, to see the full guilt and defilemenof sin pardoned and washed away:these views to pray, hear, &c. knowinthy polluted self, and all thy weak performances accepted continually: in thes biviews to trample upon all self-righteous 1ness, and to be found continually in thi Jrighteousness of Christ only, Philip, iii i9. that Christ alone, as Mediator, may b(exalted in his throne, mourning over althy duties which thou hast not performein the sight and sense of Christ’s love.’—Without the blood of Christ on the con¬science all is dead services, Heb. ix. 141That Christ which the natural man canapprehend, is but a Christ of his ownmaking, not the Father’s Christ* not Jesus,the Son of the living God, to whom nonecan come without the Father’s drawingJohn vi. 44, 45.Search the Scriptures daily as mines ofgold, wherein the heart of Christ is laid,John v. 39. Watch against constitutionalsins, Psalm lix. 5. *, see them in their vile¬ness, and they shall never break out intoact. Keep always an humble, empty,broken frame of heart, sensible of anyspiritual miscarriage, observant of all in¬ward workings, fit for the highest com¬munications. Keep not guilt in the con¬science, but apply the blood of Christ im-17mediately. God chargeth sin and guiltupon thee, to make thee look to Christ,the brazen serpent.Judge hot Christ’s love by providences,but by promises, Psalm ixxiii. Hcb. xii. 1.Eccls. ix. Bless God for shaking off falsefoundations, and for any way whereby he! keeps the soul awakened, and looking afterChrist. Bette* is sickness and temptation,than security and slightness.Reckon not duties by high impressions,but by low frames and views of Christ.—Tremble at duties and gifts. It was thesaying of a great saint, He was more afraidof his duties than his sins—the one often; made him proud, the other always madehim humble. Treasure up manifestationsof Christ’s love } they make the heart lowfor Christ, too high for sin. Slight netthe lowest, meanest evidences of grace:God may put thee to make use of the; lowest as thou thinkest j even that, 1 Johniii. 14. maybe worth a thousand ivorldsli to thee.Be true to tiuth ; but not turbulent andscornful. Restore such as are fallen helpthem up again with all the bowels of Christ.! Set the broken disjointed bones with thegrace of the gospel.High professor, despise not weak saints.Thou mayest come to wish to be in thecondition of the meanest of them. Be16faithful to oihers’ infirmities, but sensibleof thy own. Visit sick beds and desertedsouls much; they are excellent scholarsin experience.Abide in your calling. Be dutiful toall relations, as to the Lord. Be contentwith little of the world; little will serve.Think every little of the earth much, be¬cause unworthy the least. Think muchof heaven, not little because Christ is sorich and free. Think every one betterthan thyself-, and ever carry self-loathingabout thee, as one fit to be trampled uponby all saints. See the vanity of the world,and the consumption that is upon allthings, and love nothing but Christ.—Mourn to think how many are under bap¬tism and ordinances wko are not undergrace, looking much after duty and obe¬dience, little after Christ, or grace. Pre¬pare for the cross, welcome it, bear ittriumphantly as Christ’s cross, whetherscoffs, mockings, jeers, contempt, impris¬onment, &c. But' see it be Christ’s cross,not thine own.Sin will hinder from glorying in thecross of Christ. Omitting little truthsagainst light may harden the conscience,as well as committing the greatest sinagainst light. If thou hast been taken outof the belly of hell into Christ’s bosom,and mac^j to &it among princes in the19household of God—Oh ! how should thoulive as a pattern of mercy !Redeemed, restored soul! what infiniteSums dost thou oqie Christ! With whatsingular frames oughtest thou to walk andto do every duty ! On Sabbaths, whatpraising days, singing of hallelujahs,should th6y be to thee ! What a heavenis communion with Christ, and angels,and saints ! What a drowning the soulin eternal love, is a burial with Christ,dying to all things besides hi* t Everytime thou thinkest of Christ be astonished,and wonder. When thou seest sin, lookat Christ’s grace which did pardon if,—when thou art proud, look at Christ’s grace,that will humble, and strike thee down inthe dust.Remember Christ’s time of love: whenthou wast naked, Ezek. xvi. 3. 9. thenchose he thee. Cvmst thou ever have aproud thought—remember whose armssupported thee from sinking, and deliveredthee from the lowest hell, Psalm Ixxxvi.13. And shout in the ears of angels andmen, Psalm cxlviii. and for ever sing,‘ Praise, praise: grace, grace.’ Daily re¬pent and pray : and walk in the lights ofgrace, as one that hath the anointings ofgrace upon thee. Remember thy sins,Christ’s pardonings j thy deserts, Christ’smerits; thy weakness, Christ’s strength;50(thv pride, CWist’fi humility j thy manyinfirmities, Christ’s restorings; thy guilt,Christ’s new applications of his blood ; thyfailings, Christ’s assistance; thy wants,Christ’s fulness; thy temptations, Christ’stenderness; thy vileness, Christ’s righte¬ousness.Blessed soul! whom Christ shall find,not having on his own righteousness, Phil,iii. 9. but having his robes washed, and 1made white in the blood of the Lamb,Rev. vii. 14.Woeful, miserable professor ! who hastnot the gospel within. Rest not on thejudgment of thy fellow-creatures. Thoumayest be applauded by them, and castaway in Christ’s day of trial. Thou mayestcome to baptism, and never ‘ come toJesus and the blood of sprinkling,’ lieb.xii. 24. Whatever workings or attain¬ments are short of Christ’s blood, merits,righteousness, (the main object of the gos¬pel,) fall short of the gospel, and leave thesoul in a condition of doublings and ques¬tionings. And douhtings, (if not lookedinto betimes,) will turn to a slightness ofspirit, one of the most dangerous frames.Trifle not with brdinances. Be muchin meditation and prayer. Be constantand diligent in hearing Christ’s ord. Wehave need of doctrine, reproof, exhortation,consolation, as the tender herbs and thegrass hath of the rain, the dew, the smallrain, and the showers, Deut. xxxii. 2.—Do all thou doest as soul-work unto Christ,Zech. vii. 5, 6. as immediately dealingwith Christ Jesus, as if he were lookingon thee, and thou on him, and fetch ailthy strength from him.Observe what holy motions you find inyour soul to duties. Prize the least goodthought thou hast of Christ, the least goodword thou speakest of him sincerely fromthe heart. Rich mercy; O, bless Godfor it! Observe, if every day you havethe day-spring from on high, with hismorning-dews of mourning for sin, con¬stantly visiting thee, Luke i. 78. Haveyou the bright morning-star, with freshinfluences of grace and peace, constantlyarising, Rev. xxii. 16. and Christ sweetlygreeting the soul in all duties ?—Whateverduty makes not more spiritual, will makemore carnal; what doth not quicken andhumble will deaden and harden.Judas may have the soup, the outwardprivileges of baptism, and the Supper oftjie Lord; but John leaned on Christ’sbosom. That is the gospel ordinance pos¬ture, in which we should pray and hear,and likewise perform all duties. Nothingbut lying in that bosom will dissolve hard¬ness of heart, and make thee to mournkijidly for sin, and cur© a careless spirit,22that gangrene in profession. That willhumble indeed, and make the soul cordialto Christ, and sin vile to the soul, yeatransform it into the glory of Christ.—Never think thou art right as thou shouldstbe, a Christian of any attainment, untilthou come to this,—always to see and feelthyself lying in the bosom of Christ, ‘ whois in the bosom of the Father.’ Come,and move the Father, for near views ofChrist, and you will be sure to speed.—You can come with no request that pleas-eth him better. He gave him out of hisown bosom for that very end, to be heldup before the eyes of all sinners, as theeverlasting monument of his Father’s love.Locking at the natural sun weakeneththe eye. The more you look at Christ,the Sun of Righteousness, the strongerand clearer will the eye of faith be. Lookbut at Christ, you will love him, and liveon him. Think on him continually:—keep the eye constantly upon Christ’sblood, or every blast of temptation willshake you. If you would see sin’s sinful¬ness to loath it, and mourn, do not standlooking upon sin, but look upon Christfirst, as suffering and satisfying. If youwould see your graces, your sanctification,don’t stand gazing upon them; but lookat Christ’s righteousness in the first place~-see the Son, and you see all—Look atyour graces in the second place.23In believing, what you first look at you■ expec{ stability from, and make the foun-i dation of your hope. Go to Christ, insight of thy misery, not of thy grace andii! holiness. Have nothing to do with gracesI and sanctification—they will but veil' Christ—till thou hast seen Him first.—I He that looks upon Christ through hisi own graces, is like one that sees the sun: in water,—which wavereth and moves as*he water doth.— Look upon Christ onlyas shining in the firmament of the Father’sI love and grace :—then you will see him ini his own glory, which is unspeakable.Pride and unbelief will put you upon:| seeing somewhat in yourself first; but faithwill have to do with none but Christ, whois inexpressibly glorious, and must swal¬low up thy sanctification as well as thysin; for God made him both for us, and wemust make him both, 1 Cor. i. 30. Hethat sets up his sanctification to look atflfor comfort, sets up a great idol, which,i will but strengthen his doubts and fears,yDo but look off from Christ, and present¬ly, like Peter, you sink in doubts.A Christian never wants comfort, but] by breaking the order and method of the(gospel, looking on his own, and lookingioff from Christ’s perfect righteousness,iwhich is to chuse rather to live by candlelight than by the light of the sun. The$4honey that you suck from your own righ¬teousness, will turn into perfect gall; andthe light that you take from that to walkin,' will turn into black night on the soul. |.Satan is tempting thee, by putting thee to |plod about thy own grace, to get comfort <from it. There the Father comes, andpoints thee to Christ’s grace, (as rich, glo- |rious, and infinitely pleasing to him,) and !,biddest thee study Christ’s righteousness. ![His biddings are enablings,—a blessed |power—a sweet whisper, checking thineunbelief. Follow the least hint; closewith much prayer ; prize it as an invalu¬able jewel; it is an earnest of more to come.Thou who hast seen Christ all, and thy¬self absolutely nothing, who makest Christall thy life, and art dead to all righteous- |ness besides; thou art the Christian, onehighly beloved, who hath found favourwith God, a favourite of heaven. DoChrist this one favour for all his love tothee, love his poor saints and people, (themeanest, the weakest, notwithstandingany difference in judgment,) they are en- #graven on his heart, as the names of thechildren of Israel on Aaron’s breast-plate,Exod. xxviii. 21. Let them be so onthjne. ‘ Pray for the peace of Jerusalem,they shall prosper that love thee,’ Psalmcxxii. 6.FINIS.