THEHISTORY OF MOSES;GIVING ani Account of his birth, his being found by Pharaoh’s daughterin the ark of bulrushes, and the miracles wrought bj himfor the deliverance of the children of Israel.EiflBELLiSHED WITH CUTS.GLASGOW:PI (NTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERp'OF SCOTLAND1kIII IT183801. 10 YJinaiH> : - . *<.lor.ial i j r'ntMida aili 'to < T, ajj' M. -.8a .la j :i a .-i o - . i ir <• a ; t; k j i ■/sThe finding: of Moses.Exodus ii. 1.Moses was the son of Amram and Jochebed, of the1 tribe of Levi, and was born in Egypt. In conse-i quence of the decree of Pharaoh for putting thet male children of the Hebrews to death, his mother, seeing that he was a goodly child, hid him threeI months. At length when she could no longer hideij him, she made for him with her own hands a little1 cradle of bulrushes, which she daubed with slime!, and pitch to keep out the water, and having putthe child into it, she laid it among the flags by thej edge of the river Nile. She then left his sister ati a little distance from the spot to watch the cradle.| A short time after Jochebed had left her child, theh daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe herself inthe river, and when she saw the little ark, she sent4her maid to fetch it. And when she opened it, shesaw the child, and behold the child wept. And shehad compassion on him, and said, “ This is one ofthe Hebrew’s children.” And the sister of the child,who had seen all that had passed, came to theprincess, and said to her, “ Shall I go and call theea nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nursethe child for thee ? ” And Pharaoh’s daughter saidto her, “ Go : ” and the maid went and called thechild’s mother. And the woman took the child andnursed it. And we read that the child grew underthe tender care of his mother, and that she took himwhen he was old enough unto Pharaoh’s daughter,who brought him up as her own son. And shecalled his name Moses, which, in the Egyptiantongue, means one saved out of the water.As the son of Pharaoh’s daughter, Moses waseducated in a magnificent and princely manner, yetMoses did not forget his own people, or his father'shouse. In his visits to his own people, Moses sawand pitied the miseries which they had to bear fromthe cruelty of King Pharaoh. He saw their suffer¬ings, and could no longer be happy in the court ofEgypt, among the enemies of his people and of theirreligion. His faith made him more proud of thaname of Israelite then he had ever been of beingcalled the adopted son of King Pharaoh’s daughter.Once more among his own people, he found it verydifficult to see with patience all that they had tobear; and on one occasion we read that he saveda Hebrew from the hand of an Egyptian who wassmitinghim,andslewtheEgyptian. When Pharaohheard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. AndMoses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in theland of Midian, and lived several years with Jethro,who gave him one of his daughters for his wife.5The burning Bush.Exodus iii. 1.One day, when Moses was keeping the flock ofhis father-in-law, the angel of the Lord appearedunto him in a flame of Are, out of the midst of abush. “ And Moses said, I will now turn aside,and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt.”Then God called unto him out of the midst of thebush, and said, draw not nigh hither ; put otf thyshoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thoustandest is holy ground. And the Lord commis¬sioned him to deliver his people Israel. But MoseSwas afraid when he heard what God commandedhim to do ; because he thought himself unworthyof such an office, and unlit for it. But it pleasedGod to assure him, that he would be with him,to guide and protect him.‘6""be Flagtic.T of Srvpt.Exodus viii. 1.Now Moses and Aarou went as the Lord com¬manded them, and told the people all that the Lordhad spoken unto Moses, aud did wonders beforethem. And Moses and Aaron went in and said toKing Pharaoh, “ Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,‘ Let my people go, that they may hold a feast untome in the wilderness.’ ” And Pharaoh said, “ Whois the Lord that I should obey his voice to let Israelgo ? I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israelgo.” And from that day Pharaoh made the childrenof Israel work harder than they had ever donebefore, desiring that they might no longer havestraw given them to make their bricks of, but thatthey should from that time be obliged to find theirown straw, and at the same time get done as much7work as they did when they had straw given them.Then when God saw the hardness of Pharaoh’sheart, he commanded Moses to go to Pharaoh inthe morning, when he took his walk by the river,and to take his rod in his hand, and to smite thewaters of the river before him, which should all beturned into blood. And the fish that were in theriver died, and the river stank, and the Egyptianscould not drink of the water of the river; and therewas blood throughout all the land of Egypt. Sevendays did this sad change in the waters last; butstill Pharaoh would not listen to the voice of Mosesand Aaron. Then God told Moses to stretch forthhis hand over the river, and over all the waters,and to bring frogs over all his people : and Mosesdid so; and frogs came over all the land of Egypt,as the Lord said. Then Pharaoh sent for Moses andAaron, and said, “ Entreat the Lord, that he maytake away the frogs from me, and from my people;and I will let the people go, that they may sosacrifice unto the Lord.” But no sooner did theLord hear the voice of Moses, and take away thisevil from Pharaoh and his people, than the kingforgot what he had suffered, and would not letthe Israelites go. Great and dreadful were theplagues that the Lord brought upon the land ofEgypt before the King would let the children ofIsrael go. At one time, he covered the whole land,both man and beast, with the most disgustingkind of insects—at another, he sent grievousswarms of flies to torment them—now, he sentmighty hails, and thunderings, and rains uponthe land, which were exceeding terrible, fillingthe hearts of the people with fear—then, hedestroyed all the first-born of the land, both manand beast.Exodus xii. 3.On the evening before the Passover God command¬ed that every family of Israel should slay a lamb, andsprinkle the door-posts before the houses with theblood of the lamb ; that so, when the angel of th'-Lord came down to destroy the first-born of Egyp’-he might know the houses of Israel from those oiEgypt, and pass over them, and save those thatdwelt in them from death. This lamb was to bocalled the Passover, because God should pass overthose houses whose doors were sprinkled with itsblood. This was the last supper which the childrenof Israel were ever to eat in Egypt, even the feastof the Passover. They kept up this feast everyyear, in order that they might remember the nightwhen the Lord smote the Egyptians.9The passage oflsrael through the Red Sea.Exodus xiv. 15.We now see the children of Israel, delivered bythe almighty power of God from Egypt and fromPharaoh, travelling towards the land that God hadpromised to their fathers. The Lord went beforethem by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead themthe way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to givethem light. When they had thus got as far asPi-hahiroth, which borders on the Red Sea,they lifted up their eyes, and behold the Egyptiansmarched after them. So hardened was king Phar¬aoh’s heart, that scarcely had the Israelites gone outof Egypt before he was sorry that he had let themgo. And he took six inwidred chosen chariots, andall the chariots of Egypi, ind captains over everyone of them, and passed after the children of Israel,10and overtook them by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth.Then the children of Israel were sore afraid, andcried unto the Lord. The Red Sea before them, theEgyptians behind, they saw no hope of safety ; andthey were full of anger against Moses, for havingbrought theni out of Egypt. But tiie Lord saidunto Moses, “ Lift up thy rod, and stretch out thinehand over the sea, and divide it; and the childrenof Israel shall go on dry ground through the midstof the sea. ” And the angel of the Lord, whichwent before the camp of Israel, removed and wentbehind them, and came between the camp of theEgyptians and the camp of Israel; so that the onezame not near the other all the night. And Mosesstretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lordcaused the sea to go back by a strong east wind allthat night, and made the sea dry land, and the waterswere divided. But that foolish and wicked manPharaoh, still set himself against God, and madlypursued the Israelites into the midst of the sea.But so soon as the Israelites had passed over on dryland, and safely reached the shore, the Lord saidunto Moses, “ Stretch out thine hand over the sea,that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians,upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen.”And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea,and the sea returned to his strength when themorning appeared, and the Egyptians iled againstit; but the Lord overthrew them in the midst ofthe sea, and the waters returned, and covered thechariots and the horsemen, and all the host ofPharaoh that came into the sea after them ; thereremained not so much as one of them : and Israelsaw their dead bodies upon the sea shore. Thusthe Lord saved Israel that day out of the hand ofthe Egyptian*.\Exodus xvi. 1.We read in the Bible, that after they had crossedlithe Bed Sea, they came into the wilderness of Chur,ft While travelling onwards through the wilderness ofI Sin they suffered from hunger, and murmered againstMoses and Aaron. But again God heard their cries,and sent them bread from heaven to eat. TheLord said unto Moses, “Behold I will rain bread| from heaven for you ; and the people shall go outband gather a certain rate every day—at even yei shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filledwith bread.” And in the morning there lay a smallround thing, as small as thehoar-frost, on the ground.And when the children of Israel saw it, they said oneto another, “It is manna.” And Moses said, “ Thi*a is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat.”Tsrael fed' from HeavenMoses Smiting the Hock.Exodus xvii. 1.We now find the children of Israel travellingfrom the wilderness of Sin, and, according to thecommandment of the Lord, pitching their campat Rephidim. There being no water here, wefind those stubborn and rebellious people, sayingunto Moses, “ Give us water that we may drink ;wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out ofEgypt, to kill us, and our children, and our cattle,with thirst?” The Lord had shewed them signsand mighty wonders in the land of Egypt—he haddelivered their children from the sword of the de¬stroying angel, when all around them was anguishand dismay—he heard them when they cried andgroaned under the lash of the oppressor, amid thobrick-kilns of Egypt, and emancipated them from13the same—he opened a passage for them in themighty waters at the Red Sea, when about to falla prey to the rage and fury of Pharaoh king ofEgypt—moreover, he had given them bread to eatin the wilderness when they hungered for the same ;and was still able to give them what they nowdesired. But they, instead of praying to the Lordi that he would once more condescend to look down■ with compassion upon them, and grant them theirI request, reproached, and murmured against Moses,I the servant of the Lord. And Moses said untoI them, “Why chide ye with me? wherefore doI ye tempt the Lord?” Moses tired of their com-| plaints and discontent, felt that he could dojl nothing with the people under his care; butt knew that the Lord could either quench there; thirst, or put a stop to their rage. He, there¬fore, cried unto the Lord, and said, “ AVliatli shall I do unto this people? they be almost ready)l to stone me.” Nor did he cry in vain, for theJ Lord said unto him, “ Go on before the people, andit take witli thee of the elders of Israel; and thv[trod wherewith thou smotest the river, take ini thine hand and go. Behold. I will stand beforethee there upon the rock in Horeb, and thou shaltIt smite the rock, and there shall come water out(of it, that the people may drink.” And Mosesdid so in the sight of the elders of Israel. Thusdid God open streams in the desert—he clave(the hard rocks in the wilderness, and gavethem drink thereof, as it had been out of thegreat depth—he brought waters out of thestrong rock, so that it gushed out like rivers:and this he did although his people had sinnedagainst him, and provoked the Most High in the^wilderness.14Exodus xix. 10.Now the children of Israel encamped beforeMount Sinai. Then God desired that the people!would put away ail their usual employments, and.spend the next two days in preparing to appearbefore him. And on the third day Moses broughtforth the people out of the camp to meet with Godand Mount .Sinai was altogether on a smoke: because!the Lord descended upon it in fire, and the wholeimount quaked greatly. And when the voice of thetrumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder,Moses spake, arid God answered him by a voice.And the Lord called Moses up to the top of themount. Then Moses went up and heard God him¬self speak the Ten Commandments which we havein the twentieth Chapter of Exodus.15'he Israelites worshipping the golden calf.Exodus xxxii. 1.V, Now Moses was forty days and forty nights in themount with God : and the people had began touonder what had become of him, and to he tired ofbaiting and looking for his return. Although the(lory of the Lord still rested on the mount, and the•aresence of the Lord was clearly there, they pre-ifinded to think that God and Moses had left them,.$nd they said one to another, “ Let us make usSods which shalf go before us.” And they made!iem a golden calf, and said, “ These bo thy gods,l|) Israel, which brought thee out of the land ofigypt.” And they worshipped the golden calf whichhey had set up, although God had positively for-idden them to make any graven image to worship,>r the likeness of any thing in heaven above, or in1Cthe earth beneath, or in the water under the eartLBut so evil were their hearts, so ready to wande •from God, so quick to forget his mercies, thahaving been left only for a few short days to then]selves, they set up a golden calf to worship. Anthe Lord said unto Moses, “ Go, get thee downfor thy people have corrupted themselves: the!have turned aside quickly out of the way whic/ I commanded them; they have made themmolten calf, and have worshipped it: let nralone that my wrath may consume them, andwall make of thee a great nation.” But Moseloved the people of Israel; and he prayed earnestly for them, unto the Lord his God. Anthe Lord who is abundant in mercy, gracious!heard his prayer; so as not to destroy ther.altogether in a moment. And Moses went dowfrom the mount, and as soon as he came nigunto the camp, he saw the calf, and the dancingand his anger waxed hot, and he cast the tablr'out of his hands, and break them beneath tb .mount. And he took the calf which they hamade, and burnt it in the fire, and ground it tpowder, and strewed it upon the water, and madthem drink of it. Ann lie stood in the gate of tlicamp, and said, “ Who is on the Lord’s side ? let hircome unto me.” And all the sons of Levi gatherethemselves together unto him. Then Moses, bthe command of God, desired the sons of Levi ttake their swords and go in amongst the peopland kill them : and they did so ; and there fell <the people that day about three thousand. And tthe rest of the people Moses said, “Ye have shinea great sin ; and now will I go up unto the Lordperadventure I shall make an atonement for you:ein.”Leviticus x. 1.iNadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took eitherlithem his censer, and put, fire therein, and puttense thereon, and offered strange fire before therd, which he commanded them not. And therefnt out fire from the Lord, and devoured them,f i they died before the Lord. Then Moses said(to Aaron, “ This is it that the Lord spake, saying,rill be sanctified in them that come nigh me, andfore all the people I will be glorified.” And(Aron held his peace. And Moses called MishaclI d Elzaphan, the sonsof Uzziel,the uncle of Aaron,! d said unto them, “ Carry your brethren from be-te the sanctuary out of the camp.” So theyirried them, as Moses had said : And Moses saidito Aaron, and unto his sons, “ Uncover not yourbads, neither rend your clothes, lest ye die.” jThe Spies return from surveying CanaaNumbers xiii. 1.The children of Israel were thus wonderfulled by the Lord throughout all their journeyuntil they arrived safely on the borders of the larof Canaan. There God desired Moses, to send meto search the land of Canaan. And Moses seitwelve men. one man from each of the tribesfamilies of Israel, and said unto them. “Go, s#the land what it is, and the people that dwell thenin, whether they be strong or weak, few or manyand what the land is that they dwell in, whetherbo good or bad. And be ye of good courage, aitbring of the fruit of the land.” Now the time withe time of the first ripe grapes. So they went uand searched the land : and they came to a broo ior vallev, afterward called Eshcol. And so beaut I:19fnl were the fruits they found in this fertile valleyof Eshcol, that they cut down there a bunch ofgrapes so large that two men were obliged tocarry it between them on a stick: they took alsoof the pomegranates and the figs. After fortyi days spent in searching the land, they went backno Moses and Aaron, and all the people, andr shewed them the fruit of the land ; and they toldiithem that such were the fruits of the land of. 'jCanaan, and that it was certainly a land flowingJiwith milk and honey; but in other respects theseif men gave a very evil account of the land itself, anda very frightful one of the people that dwelt there,)i whom they called giants ; saying, “ That by the side| bf them they seemed to themselves as grasshoppers.”l|But two of the children of Israel, named Calebfluid Joshua, who were of the twelve who hadIf leen sent into the land, declared unto all the peoplet: :hat what the others had told them was not true.* JBut the people would not listen to Caleb and Joshua,ilior believe what they said ; for their hearts wereI exceedingly perverse towards God. And the anger- I >f the Lord was exceeding great against the childrenj| if Israel; and because they had acted in this wickedt nanner, God said they should not see the land whichi le had promised them ; no, not one of them shouldi nter that land, excepting his servants Caleb andj foshua ; but that the rest of the people should die inhe wilderness, and that their children should wanderhere, until all those who had now and so oftenlefore sinned against the Lord had died and wereinried. Then God said to this wicked people,1‘ Turn you, and get you into the wilderness, by thevay of the Red Sea.” Now Moses told these say-ngs to the people of Israel, and they murmuredgreatly. • . • uj20He that violated the Sabbath is stoned.Numbers xv. 32.On one occasion some of the children of Israelfound a man gathering sticks upon the sabbath day. ;And they put him in ward, because it bad not beemdeclared what should be done to him. And the Lord!said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put toideath: all the congregation shall stone him witlustones without the camp.” And all the congrega¬tion brought him without the camp, and stoned hi mi ■with stones, and he died; as the Lord commanded,Moses. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying,. ’“ Bid them make fringes in the border of theirgarments, throughout their generations, and put;upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of bluethat they may remember, and do all my command¬ments, and be holy unto their God ”»Numbers xvi. 1.jiNow Korab, Dathan, and Abiram, took men ;i d they rose up before Moses, with certain of thelijildren of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of: 3 assembly. And they gathered themselves to¬other against Moses and Aaron, and said untoJem, “ Ye take too much upon you, seeing all theTtogregation are holy, every one of them, and theford is among them ; wherefore then lift ye upitjurselves above the congregation of the Lord ? ”ad when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face ;:d he spake unto Korah, and all his company,lying, “ Even to-morrow, the Lord will shew whol 3 his, and who is holy; and will cause him tolime near unto him. This do ; take you censers,liorah and all his company ; and put fire therein,22and put incen*« in them before the Lord to-morro'and it shall be, that the man whom the Lord do <choose, he shall be holy.” And they took every m?his censer, and put lire in them, and laid incen i'thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernac: j;of the congregation with Moses and Aaron. Ar ;Korah gathered all the congregation against thenand the glory of the Lord appeared unto all tlcongregation. And the Lord spake unto Moses an iunto Aaron, saying, “ Separate yourselves froi iamong this congregation, that I may consume thenin a moment.” But Moses and Aaron fell upoitheir faces, and entreated the Lord to spare thcongregation. And the Lord commanded Moscto speak unto them, and say, “ Get you up frorabout the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, anAbiram.” So Moses spake these words unto theirand they obeyed him, and departed from the tabeinacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. Then Mose ■said unto them, “If these men die the common deatlof all men, then the Lord hath not sent me ; bui ’if the Lord open the mouth of the earth, ant .swallow them up, and all that pertaineth unto thermthen ye shall know that these men have provokeethe Lord.” And it came to pass, as he had mad*an end of speaking these words, that the groumclave asunder under them ; and the earth openecher mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses,and all the men that appertained unto Korah.And there came out tire from the Lord and con¬sumed the two hundred and tifty men that offeredincense. Then the congregation murmured againiMoses, saying, “ Ye have killed the people of the:Lord. ” And the Lord was angry with the childrenof Israel, and smote them with a plague ; which,;however, was stayed by the intercession of Aaron. 1Numbers xxi. 6.The children of Israel being obliged to take ager journey than they expected before they weremitted to enter the promised land, murmuredlinst the Lord and against Moses, Then therd in his anger sent fiery serpents among the>ple, which bit them ; and much people* of Israeld. And Moses prayed for the people. And therd said unto Moses, “ Make thee a fiery serpent,. d set it upon a pole ; and it shall come to pass,at every one that is bitten, when he looketh uponi? shall live.” And Moses made a serpent of brass,P d put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that iferpent had bitten any man, when he beheld theent of brass, he lived. The children of Israeltinned their journey towards the promised land;The Brazen Serpent.24none of them, however, who had left the land of i|Egypt, save Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb theson of Jephunneh, were permitted to enter it, forhaving sinned so often against the Lord. EvenMoses the servant of the Lord, though permittedto see it from the top of Mount Nebo, was not per¬mitted to enter; but died in the land of Moab,when he was an hundred and twenty years of age.And the children of Israel wept for Moses thirty 1days.FIN13.