TOURNAMENT*ATEGLINTON CASTLE,ON WEDNESDAY AND FRIDAY,28/Zi and 30M August, 1839.GLASGOW:PUBLISHED BY ORR & SONS1 8 39.OF SCOTLAND0 f N EftJ R.V *| : 7/003 A iO''4Jt\. Jlv/il- ^-rEGLINTON TOURNAMENTIn that part of Ayrshire wherein is situated Eglin.ton Castle, the Tournament may be said to have en¬grossed the thoughts and actions of the entire popu¬lation since Monday last. Each succeeding hourbrought fresh accessions of company, from thepeer to the commoner, and, by Tuesday evening, theCastle of Eglinton was not only filled from the foun¬dation stone to the roof, but the towns and villagesof Irvine, Saltcoats, Kilwinning, Ardrossan, and thefarm and cot-houses adjoining, might be compared'to a district of country beleaguered by some foe, wherehosts of mankind were compressed into the smallestpossible space, glad to throw their limbs to rest inany corner and at any price. Accommodation forman or beast rose in fact from 500 to 1000 percent. ; houses in the neighbourhood, according totheir dimensions, were let from £10 to £30 for thetime ; and single beds in the second best apartmentof a weaver's domicile were retailed to the tune offrom 10s. to 20s. per night, while the master andmistress of the household, with their little ones,coiled themselves up in any out-of-the-way corner asbest they might. Stables, byres, and sheds were inrequisition for the steeds, and, with every availableatom of space of this description, it was found all toolittle.Fretful as the weather has been during the lastten days, Tuesday welcomed in a halcyon change;the'air was warm, and the sky bright and unclouded,and gave a most exhilarating effect to the wholescene. The spirits of men, and women too, wereuplifted in the prospect of a day of gladsome pastime—of interesting reminiscences of the olden time ren¬dered more vivid by the impersonation of ancientcustoms and ancient habits.But if the bustle was great for days previously,Wednesday morning eclipsed it all. The weather,on which so much depended, looked, very doubtful at4an early hour, but, as the morning advanced, the low¬ering clouds passed away, leaving a bright sky, yield¬ing promise of a delightful day. Buoyed up withthis impression, every face turned towards the sceneof action wore a smile, and congratulations on thehappy prospect of an all day’s bright sunshine, wereuniversal. How sadly these hopes were disappoint¬ed, let the sequel shew. The conveyances wereplying with redoubled speed—upwards of a score oflarge Steamers having arrived, fitted up as floatingHotels—the Glasgow and Ayrshire llailway Trains,with the new engine ‘ Marraion,’ and additionalcoaches, were running every hour and quarter,and conveyed, on Wednesday alone, 3000 passen¬gers—every thing in the shape of a quadruped (espe-cially if it could draw) was hurried along the roadwith a severe deck-load, towards Eglinton Castle,more quickly by far than was good for its consti¬tution, while those whose localities or whose circum¬stances rendered exercise on foot p referable,/>w/ilack of an alternative, rushed on to swell the impe¬tuous tide of spectators. Everything combined, torender it a scene which for interest has not beenequalled in Scotland, since the visit of George IV.to Edinburgh; and which, for its peculiar charac¬teristics, has not been equalled in Britain since“ The morry Days of Good Queen Bess.1" A sightso rare naturally had the effect of drawing visi¬tors from every point of the compass. Not a coun¬ty, perhaps, nor a town of any note, from theBand's End to John O’Groats, nor from the Giant’sCauseway to Cape Clear, but has furnished its quotaof visitors. Nor is it these islands alone that haveproduced their numbers. Germany, Holland, Bel¬gium, France, Spain, and other Continental States,have contributed of their population. We saw onegentleman from St. Petersburgh, and even Amer¬ica herself sent some of her sons and daughteis towitness a specimen of . those brilliant pageants, inwhich their ancestors and ours wore wont to delightand indulge.The invitation given by the Noble Earl was universal.Those who applied for tickets of admission to the erectedostands were to appear in ancient costume, fancy dresses,or uniforms, and farmers and others were requestedto appear in bonnets and kilts, and many—very manydid so—but although all the bonnet-makers in Kilmar¬nock, and all the plaid manufacturers in Scotland hadbeen employed from the time of announcement onwards,they could not have provided for the innumerable headsand shoulders which appeared in the policies of Eglinton.Of course, the great majority had no distinguishing dress,but most of those not in costume appeared in holidayclothing, and all had an agreeable, respectable, healthy,and happy look.The Castle and grounds of Eglinton are in everysense of the word worthy of - each other—the formeris not more than 45 years old, and was built bythe grandfather and immediate predecessor of the pre¬sent Earl. It has a much older appearance, however,and rears its head in the true baronial fashion, beingflanked by bold turrets, and showing a noble dome sur¬mounted by a flag-staff, from which the banner of Eglin¬ton flaunted in pride. The policy extends, we have beeninformed, to 1400 acres of the richest land, beautifullyand even thickly dotted by timbers whose rotundity ofstem and lavishness of foliage tell that they have seenthe storms and sunshine of more than a hundred years—oaks, sycamores, and beeches here forming fairy clumps,and there lengthening into sweet vistas, pointing as itwere to some spot of welcome retirement—“some bound¬less contiguity of shade.” Rather more than a quarterof a mile north-east of tho Castle was the scene selectedfor the lists, and a more appropriate spot could not havebeen chosen The ground laid off is a portion of a beau¬tifully level lawn, skirted by the winding Lugton, roundwhich the gently sloping ascents with belts of planting,form a noble amphitheatre of tho richest description.The arena, or lists, comprise an oblong square, about650 feet in length, and 250 in breadth. The barrier110 yards long, and more than 4 feet in height, was erec¬ted in the centre of the lists. The grand pavilion, withthe throne of the Queen of Beauty, was on the south sideof the arena. The erections were a centre, with twowings, the Queen’s pavilion being roofed in, and the frontelegantly finished in the Gothic style, with beautiful pina-des, elaborately painted and gilt. The pavilion wasmade to contain about 800 spectators. The other twoGof smaller dimensions, and of a less gorgeous descrip¬tion, were designed to accommodate about 1600 per¬sons.Across each side of the enclosed space, and a littleway along the side at which the Grand Stand was placed,the marquees of the knights were erected for the accom¬modation of knights, esquires, and pursuivants, equeries,retainers, &c. Each marquee consisted of a centre andtwo wings, which looked like three. These stands wereas follows:—The Earl ofEglinton’s marquee consisted offive divisions—two large and three small—the centre onebeing the one through which the cavalcade was to pass asit entered the oblong square. This was afterwards re¬moved, as it was feared the horses would not passthrough.The marquees were distinguished by the followingcolours :—Earl of Eglinton, at the entrance,—yellow and bluestripes.The Hon. Captain Beresford,—black and white stripe.Lord Glenlyon,—blue, green, and red stripes.Mr Lechmere,—red and white stripes, horizontal.Earl of Cassillis, and the Hon. Captain Gage,—white.Mr Charles Lamb,—white with yellow stripes, and bluediamonds.The Hon. Captain Fairlie,—dark crimson and blue, withyellow fossils.Earl of Craven,—red and white.Viscount Alford,—blue and white.Marquis of Waterford,—white with black stripes.These marquees were boarded and some covered withcarpets, and in many of them were to be seen very commo¬dious brass framed camp beds, with various trappings ofthe knights and their retainers. The barrier, as we havebefore stated, ran along the centre of the square, and oneach side of it a path for the horses, four or five pacesbroad, was strewed with bark and saw-dust, to the depthof a few inches, to soften the fall of the knights.We shall now take a glance of the grand banquetinghall and dancing saloon. This extensive erection laybehind the Castle, and between it and the river. Thewhole length was about 325 feet by 45. Of this about166 feet were assigned to the dancing saloon, the left aslooked at from the Castle, 134 to the dancing room tothe right, and 25 was occupied by a lobby in the centre.This lobby was beautifully ornamented with pictures andshrubbery, and lighted with variegated lamps, likeso many huge fire-flies dangling among the bran¬ches of a cinnamon grove in Ceylon. Access to thislobby was gained from the Castle by a flight of steps, andfrom the lobby there was an entrance to the banquetinghall on the one hand, and to the dancing saloon on theother.The banqueting hall had three row of tables, 103 feetby 5, with a head table across, at which the knights satin supporting the chairman, accommodating in all about400. It was lighted with 6 ormolu chandeliers, andthirty back lights. The silver plate was most superb, agood deal of it, we understand, having been furnished by-Messrs Storr and Mortimer of London. The dancingsaloon was lighted by six ormo’u chandeliers, three on eachside, mid-way between the side and centre, and 220 or¬molu back lights. All these lights were wax candles,placed in cut-glass sockets, presenting a most beautifuland splendid appearance. At the south end, the floor wasraised a little, and on this elevation was to sit, had wea¬ther permitted, the Queen of Beauty and her attendingnymphs, and such a Queen! Well may we say of herin the words of Homer,“ What winning graces! what majestic mien!Her every action—every look a Queen.”The drawing room of the Castle was altogether a mostsplendid sight. The rich gilt carving was in the styleof Louis XIV., and was lighted by 150 wax caudles,in a beautiful turquois and ormolu chandelier. The din¬ing room in the Castle is of old oak, w'ith red plush vel¬vet furniture, lighted in oil, with an ormolu chandelier.The whole of the lighting department was managedmost creditably by Philips, Brothers, 190, Regent Street,London. The orchestra was placed in a recess in oneside of the dining saloon, lighted with variegated lamps,and the music was under the superintendence of MrWillmun, from London. We may here observe, thatthe whole of this temporary erection was covered with acanvass roof, and lined from top to bottom, with alter¬nate breadths of red and white cotton cloth. It wasvery strongly supported beneath, and as well floored asif it had been for permanent duration. In descending8from the Castle into the centre of the lobby, after thelobby itself and the two halls had been lighted for trial,the scene was so brilliant as to baffle our humble prose,and we must borrow a little from Milton.“ From the ample roof,Pendant by subtle magic, many a row'Of starry lamps and blazing cressets, fedWith Naptha and Asphaltus, yielded lightAs from a sky. ”Wo may here state, that the Earl of Eglinton hadgiven permission to three different persons to erectbooths for supplying refreshments. Mr Murray of Ir¬vine had a booth that would accommodate 500. MrBlair of Kilwinning one that would accommodate 400;and Mr Con of the same town, one that would accom¬modate 250—two of them having scaffolding to hold be¬tween them a few hundreds. The latter was on a risingground, which afforded a fine view. It w as rather toofar from the tilting ground, and a few trees intervened,but the sight of the general scene was exceedingly rich.Wherever the eye turned,“ There stoodThe oak, the beech, the fir, the sycamore,A sylvan scene, and as the ranks -Ascend, shade above shade, a woody theatreOf stateliest view appeared.”By twelve o’clock, the side galleries presented a mostsplendid array of beautiful females and manly forms : al¬most all of these were attired in fancy costume—someSpanish, some olden French, some a nondescript a la mi-litaire—but the great majority were in the habilimentsof the Highland clans. Shortly thereafter the nobilityand gentry began to assemble in the Grand Stand, anda little after one o’clock it was completely filled, thoughnot over-crowded. The appearance of this array ofbeauty and fashion, was brilliant in the extreme—com¬prising, as it did, no insignificant portion of England’sbeauty and chivalry. Although the native grace of themajority of the Ladies might justify us in saying—“ When unadorned adorned the most,” yet all the powersof art were called into requisition to heighten charmswhich needed no such auxiliary; and yet their ornaments,costly and splendid as they wore, wore so ohantely dis-posed on forms naturally gracoftil, that many said orthought—“ Each lends to each a double charm,Like pearls on the Ethiop’s arm.”Lady Jane Seymour’s dress for the occasion was com¬posed of a jacket of ermine, the skirt of violet velvet,with the front of skyblue velvet, on which was her Lady¬ship’s arms (those of the Duke of Somerset,) richly em¬broidered in silver, and a coronet or crown, richly orna¬mented with jewels. The Marchioness of Londonderry’sdress was composed of similar materials, made under herown direction. The noblemen and gentlemen who did nottake an active part in the work of the day were attiredin every variety of costume, though the brilliant uniformsof many proclaimed that they belonged to the military,and were proud to appear in habiliments which denotedtheir connection with the British army. Innumerableglasses were directed to this magnificent spectacle fromevery part of the grounds, and it was impossible for eyeto gaze on a fairer or more exalted galaxy.The grounds around the lists, and along the whole ofthe lengthened line of the procession, were clustered bywell-dressed thousands ; a large number evinced theircourtesy to Lord Eglinton’s wish, by appearing in oldencostume, while a still greater portion of the mighty masswore Highland bonnets, Lowland plaids, and sportedsprigs of heather. Now came the unfortunate cause ofdiscontent. Before one o’clock the rain commenced, andcontinued with very little intermission ipvtil the evening.This threw a very great damp on the proceedings.Many thousands left the field, and the enjoyment of thosethat remained was in a great measure destroyed. TheGrand Stand alone was covered in, and neither plaid,umbrella, nor great-coat, could prevail against a delugeso heavy and unintermitting ; thousands were drenchedto the skin as effectually as though they had been drag¬ged through the Lugton. But the mass only squeezedthe closer together, and the excitement of the momentovercame all external annoyances. The men becameblanched, and the finery of the ladies was sadly draggled;but when the distant bugles of the procession were heard,and the hum arose, “ They come, they come,” the bloodmantled on the cheek of the palest, and expectationwas wound up to the highest pitch. Heavy, too, as therain the artists plied thoir vocation busily from va-10rious parts of the grounds and enclosure, and in number¬less instances, the wearers of antique costume were trans¬ferred to the sketch-book before the owners were awareof the honour intended for them.During the whole morning the scene in the Castle wasexciting, bustling, animating in the extreme ; and thehopes of all were high that sunshine would lend itsinfluence to the splendour of the pageant. Knights,squires, retainers, and halberdiers, were running in alldirections, half-dressed and half-armed, and the tailorsand seamstresses were as busy as ever. Just, however,when all was ready, the storm, to which we have alluded,cast a damp upon everything.It had been arranged that the procession was to startfrom the Castle at one o'clock, but the state of theweather was so unfavourable, that it did not start tillabout half-past two. The following had been arrangedas the line of procession, but we may observe, that onaccount of the rain, the Queen and the other Ladieswho were to have been on horseback, did not so appear,but went in carriages, while their beautifully caparisonedpalfreys were unbacked, led by the Pages. There were,we believe, some other changes made, but it was impossi¬ble to obtain an accurate note of them, and at any ratethey were not of very great importance.THE CAVALCADE.Men at Arms,In demi suits of Armour and Costumes.Musicians,In rich costumes of Silk—their Horses trapped andcaparisoned.Trumpeters,In full costume—the Trumpet and Banners emblazonedwith the Arms of the Lord of the Tournament.Hanner Bearers of the Lord of the Tournament.Two Deputy Marshals,In costumes, on Horses caparisoned.Attendants on foot.The Eglinton Herald,In a Tabard, richly embroidered.Two Pursuivants,fn emblazoned Surcoats.11The Judge of’Peace,(lord saltoun,)In his Robes, and bearing a Wand, on a Horse richlycaparisoned.Retainers,On foot, in costumes, carrying heavy Steel Battle Axes.Officer of the Halberdiers,On horseback, in a Suit of demi Armour, with a GiltBartizan.Halberdiers,On foot, in Liveries of the Lord, carrying their Halberds.Men at Arms,In demi Suits of Armour.The Herald of the Tournament,In his Tabard, richly emblazoned with emblematicaldevices.The Knight Marshal of the Lists,SIR CHARLES LAMB., BART.,Groom. In a rich embroidered Surcoat, and em- Groom,bossed and gilt Suit of Armour—his Horserichly caparisoned, &e.Esquire, Esquire,Lord Chelsea. Major M‘Dowal.Attendants of the Knight Marshal,In costumes of his Colours, Blue, White and Gold.Halberdiers of the Knight Marshal,In Liveries of his Colours, with their Halberds.Ladies Visitors,Lady Montgomery. Lady Jane Montcosiery,Miss Macdonald,On Horses, caparisoned with blue and wliite Silk, embroi¬dered with Gold and Silver, each led by a Groom inCostume of their colours.THE KING OE THE TOURNAMENT.Marquis of Londonderry,Halberdier. In his Robes of Velvet and Ermine,Halberdier, and wearing his Coronet—his Horse richlycaparisoned.Esquire, Esquire,Colonel Wood. II. Irvine, Esq.Halberdiers,In Liverios, as before.12THE QUEEN OE BEAUTY.Groom. Lady Seymour, Groom.In a rich costume, on a Horse richly caparisoned—aSilk Canopy borne over her by Attendants in Costumes.Ladies Attendants on the Queen,In rich costumes.Pages of the Queen,In costumes of her colours.Esquire, Esquire,F. Charteris, Esq.The Jester,In a characteristic costume, bearing his sceptie on aMule, caparisoned and trapped, with bells, &c.Retainers,On foot, in Liveries of the colours of the Lord of theTournament.The Irvine Archers,In costumes of Lincoln Green, black Velvet Baldric,Rondelle, &c.Claude Alexander, Esq.Lord Kelburne. A. Cunningham, Esq.Sir Robert Dallas. C. S. Buchanan, Esq.Captain Blair. Sir A. Hamilton.Stuart Hay, Esq Capt. Montgomerie.J. Browidow, Esq. J. Burnett, Esq.— Hamilton, Esq. Hon. J. Strangways.Captain Blanc. George Rankin, Esq.Retainers of the Lord of the Tournament.Halberdiers of the Lord, in Liveries of his colours.Man at Arms, The Gonfalon', Man at Arms,In Half-Armour. Borne by a Man at In Half-Armour.Arms.THE LORD OE THE TOURNAMENT.EARL OF EGLINTON.Groom. In a Suit of Gilt Armour, richly chased; Groom,on a barded Charger—caparisons, &c.of Blue and Gold.The Banner.Borne by Lord A. Seymour.Esquire, Esquire, Esquire,G. Dukdas, F. Cavendish, Esq. G. M'Doual, Esq.Retainers of the Lord, as before.13JIatberiticrs of the Kniyht of the Griffin,In Liveries of his Colours.Man at Arras, The Gonfalon, Man at Arms,In Half-Armour. Borne by a Man at In Half-Armour.Arms.The Knight of the Griffin.THE EARL OF CRAVEN.Groom. In a suit of engraved Milanese Armour, Groom,inlaid with Gold; on a barded Charger—caparisons, &c., of Scarlet, White,and Gold.Esquire. The Banner Esquire.The Hon. Borne by a The Hon.F. Craven. Man at Arms, F. Macdonald., In Half-Armour.Retainers.Halberdiers of the Knight of the Dragon.In Liveries of his colours.Man at Arms, The Gonfalon, Man at Arms.In Half-Armour. Borne by a Man at In Half-Armour.Arms.The Knight of the Dragon,MARQUIS OF WATERFORD.Groom. In a Suit of Polished Steel Fluted Groom.German Armour ; on barded Charger—caparisons, &c. of Blue and White.Page, Page,Lord John Beresford. Mark Whyte, Esq.Esquire, The Banner Esquire.Sir Charles Kent, Borne by a L. Ricardo, Esq.Man at Arms.Retainers.Halberdiers of the Knight of the Black Lion.Man at Arms, in The Gonfalon. Man at Arms, inHalf-Armour. Borne by a Man at Arms. Half-Armour.The Kniyht of the Black Lion.Viscount Alford.In a Suit of polished Steel Armour, on aGroom. Charger—caparisons of Blue and White. Groom.Esquire, The Banner Esquire,The Hon. Mr Cust. Borne by T. O. Gascoigne, Esqa Man at Arms.Retainers.14Halberdiers of the Kniyht of Gael.Man at Arms, The Gonfalon, Man at Arms,In Half-Armour. Borne by a Man at In Half-ArmourArms.The Kniyht of Gael,VISCOUNT GLENLYON.Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour, on Groom,a barded Charger—caparisons &c., ofGreen, Blue, and Crimson.Esquire, The Banner, • Esquire,Sir David Dundas. Borne by a John Balfour, Esq.Man at Arms.Retainers.Retainers of the Knight of the Dolphin.Man at Arms, The Gonfalon. Man at Arms,In Half-Armour. Borne by a Man at In Half-ArmourArms.The Knight of the Dolphin.Earl of Cassilis.Groom. In a Suit of engraved Steel Armour, Groom,inlaid with Gold, on a barded Charger—caparisons,&c. of Scarlet, Black and White.Esquire. Esquire.The Knight of the Crane,Lord Cranstoun.In a Suit of polished Steel Armour, on abarded Charger—caparisons, &c., of Rodand White.Esquire. The Banner, Esquire.Borne by a Manat Arms.Retainers of the Knight of the Ram.The Gonfalon,Borne by a Man at Arms.The Knight of the Ram.The Honourable Captain Gage.Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour, on Groom,a barded Charger—caparisons, &c., of Blue,White, and Crimson.Esquire. The Banner Esquire.R. Murray, Esq. Borne by a Man J. Ferguson, Esq.at Arms.15HalberiTicrs of tho Black Knight.Man at Arms, in The Gonfalon, Man at Arms, inHalf-Armour. Borne by a Man at Half-Armour.Arms.The Black Knight.John Campbell, Esq., of Saddcll.Groom. In a suit of Black Armour, on a Groom,barded Charger—caparisons, &c., of Black.Page. Page.Master J. Fletcher. Master Fletcher.Esquire, The Banner Esquire,Captain Blair. Borne by a Man at Clanranald.Arms.Retainers.Retainers of the Knight of the Swan.Man at Arms, in The Gonfalon, Man at Arms, inHalf-Armour. Borne by a Man at Half-Armour.Arms.The Knight of the Swan.Honourable Mr Jerningham,Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour, Groom,on a barded Charger—caparisons, &c., ofCrimson and White.Esquire, The Banner, Esquire,Capt. Stephenson, Borne by a Garden Campbell,Man at Arms. [Esq.Retainers of the Knight of the Golden Lion, inLiveries of his colours.Halberdiers,In emblazoned costumes, bearing their Halberds,Man at Arms, in The Gonfalon, Man at Arms, inHalf-Armour. Borne by a Man at Half-Armour.Arms.The Knight of the Golden Lion,Captain J. O. Fatrlie.Groom. In a Suit of richly gilt and emblazoned Groom.Armour; caparisons, &c., of Blue and Crimson.Page, The Banner, Page,Borne by Cox, Esq.Esquire, Esquire, *• Esquire.II. Wilson, Esq. Captain Pdrves. Captain Pettat.Halberdiers as before,—Retainers, &c.Retainers of the Knight of the White Rose.16Body Guard of The Gokfalon, Body Guard ofBowmen, in ancient Borne by a Bowmen, in ancientcostume. Man at Arms, costume.The Knight of the. White Rose,Charles Lamb, Esq.,Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour ; Groom,on a barded Charger—caparisons, &c.,of Blue and Gold Lozenge.Esquire, The Banner, Esquire,J. Gordon, Esq. Borne by a Man R. Crawford, Esq.at Arms.Retainers.The Knight of the Stag’s Head,Capt. Beresford,Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour; Groom,on a barded Charger—caparisons, &e.,White and Black.Esquire. The Banner, Esquire.Lord Maidstone. Borne by a Man  Lumley, Esq.at Arms.The Knight of the Border.Sir F. Johnstone,Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour; Groom,on a Horse—caparisons, &c. White andGold.Esquire, The Banner, Esquire,Lord Drumlanrig. Borne by a Man at Arms.The Knight of the Burning Tower.Sir F. Hopkins,Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour ; Groom,on a Charger—caparisons, &c., Blackand Gold.Esquire, The Banner, Esquire,Borne by a Man at Arms.Retainers of the Knight of the Red RoseThe Gonfalon,Borne by a Man at Arms.The Knight of the Red Rose.R. J. LECHMERBfEsq.,Groom. In a Suit of fluted German Armour; Groom,on a barded Charger—caparisons, &c.,Scarlet and White.17Esquire, The Banner, Esquire, Corky, Esq. Borne by Corbet R. Horeock, Esq.Smith, Esq.Retainers of the Knight of the Lion’s Paw.The Gonfalon,Borne by a Man at Arms.The. Knight of the Lion's Paw,Cecil Boothby, Esq.Groom. In a Suit of polished Steel Armour ; Groom,on a barded Horse—capai-isons, &c., Blueand Crimson.Esquire, The Banner, Esquire,Borne by a Man at Arms.The Knights Visitors,in ancient costumes.Swordsmen,In characteristic costumes, on foot, each bearing a two-handed sword on his right shoulder.Bowmen,With their hoods and bows.The Seneschal of the Castle,In his costume of office, and bearing his wand.Two Deputy Marshals,In costumes ; on horseback, as before.Attendants of the Deputy Marshals.Chamberlains of the Household,In costumes of office, each bearing his key.Servitors of the CastleOn foot.Men at Arms,As before.The cavalcade stopped in front of the Grand Pavilionand galleries, when the knights made their congee to theQueen of Beauty. The bands of music struck up a mar¬tial air, the heralds sounded their trumpets, and themarshals began to arrange for the important business ofthe day.The following were the rules observed at the tilting ground,viz.: 1st, No knight was permitted to ride without havingon the whole of his tilting pieces. 2d, No knight was allow¬ed to side mo*o than si* courses with the same opponent.183<3, It was expressly enjoined by the Earl of Eglinton, and tobe distinctly understood by each knight, that upon engagingto run a course, he was to strike his opponent on no otherpart than the shield, and that an atteint made elsewhere, (orthe lance broken across,) would be adjudged foul, and advan¬tages in former courses would be forfeited. 4th, Lances ofequal length, substance, and quality, as far as could be seen,were to be delivered to each knight, and none others were tobe allowed. For the credit of the Tournament, particularattention was requested to be paid to this injunction. It wasfarther stipulated that in default of the lances being splinter¬ed in a course, the judge was to decide for the atteint madenearest to the centre of the shield. With reference toactions worthy of honour, the first was to break the mostlances, the second to break the lance in more places thanone, the third not to put the lance in rest until near theopponent, the fourth to meet point to point of the lances,the fifth to strike on the emblazonment of the shield,and the sixth to perform all the determined courses.Again, with reference to actions of dishonour there wereseven rules; the first was to break the lance across the op¬ponent ; the second to strike or hurt the horse, the third tostrike the saddle, the fourth to drop the lance or sword, thefifth to lose the management of the horse at the encounter, thesixth to be unhorsed—this was considered to be'the greatestdishonour of all—and lastly, all lances broken by striking belowthe girdle were to be disallowed. One of the actions mostworthy was to break the lance in many pieces, and another atthe tourney or barrier to give two blows in passing, and tenat the encounter.The first knight who appeared to tilt was the Hon. MrJeruingham, “ The Knight of the Swan.” “ The Knight ofthe Ked Hose,” E. J. Lechmere, Esq., appeared as his op¬ponent. They passed each other twice, and missed; and inthe third course the Knight of the Swan lost his lance.The Earl of Eglinton, Lord of the Tournament, appearedas challenger in the next tilt. The Marquis of Waterford,Knight of the Dragon, came forward as his opponent. Hewas “ the observed of all observers.” The splendour of hisbrazen armour, the beauty of his charger, and his superiorskill in the management of the animal, as well as in the bear¬ing of his lance, attracted general observation, and elicitedthe reiterated cheers of the multitude. In the first tilt theEarl of Eglinton shivered his lance on the shield of his oppo¬nent Here he was saluted by the greetings of his squires, andthe cheers of the spectators. In the second tilt both knightsmissed; but in'the third course the noble Earl again brokehis lance on the armour of his opponent. Here there was an¬other burst of applause from the multitude ; and amidst thecheering and music, the Noble Earl rode up to the GrandStand, and bowed to the Queen of Beauty.19The next challenger was “ the Knight of the BurningTower,” Sir F Hopkins, and the Knight of the lied liose,A.J Leehmere, Esq. This was an excellent combat. Thelance of the Knight of the Burning Tower was shivered, andsent twenty feet in the air. The lance also of the other knightwas broken in the encounter.A tilt was run between the Knight of the Black Lion, Vis¬count Alford, and the Knight of the Gael, Viscount Glenlyon.In the first course both knights missed; in the second, theKnight of the Black Lion struck the Knight of the Gael'slance merely ; and in the third cour*se the Knight of the Gaelsent off part of his opponent’s armour.The last encounter was betwixt the Marquis of Waterfordand Lord Alford, in which the former came off with thehonours.A combat with two-handed swords was fought by a Mr.M‘Kay, and a Mr liedbury.This finished the amusements of the day, and the processionreturned to the Castle in the same order that it came. .Onleaving the lists, Lord Eglinton was repeatedly cheered bythe assembled multitude.The Irvine archers, dressed in Lincoln green, and theAthol men habited in the garb of Old Gaul, formed not theleast imposing part of the gorgeous spectacle. Their generalappearance was much admired.In consequence of the rain having gained access to the tem¬porary erections outside the Castle, appropriated as a Ball¬room and Dinner-room, the ball which should have takenplace at night was postponed till next evening.THURSDAY, AUGUST 29.This was, or should have been, the second day of the Tour¬nament ; but the morning was ushered in by storm, anddoubt and anxiety pervaded the minds of thousands. Bit¬ter as the rain was, and wild the wind, numerous partieshied them to Eglinton as a charmed spot. Hundreds of visi¬tors, too, who had been unable to attend on the first day,came in from a great distance, in spite of wind and weather,and among these we noticed numerous deputations from Edin¬burgh, Glasgow, Dumfries, &c. At an early hour, a ru¬mour got abroad that the work of the Tournament would beentirely given up from the bitterness of the weather, andthis impression was afterwards officially confirmed by an in¬timation from Lord Eglinton, to the regret of thousands,though all at the same time felt pain that his Lordship waslikely to be balked by the elements in giving a national treat,which the present generation may not witness again.It was well known, however, to those who thought of thematter, that it was impossible to get on with the Tourna¬ment, the armour being all wet and rusty, and every articleof dress that had been worn the preceding day compietelysoaked through. Understanding that many of the people fromthe surrounding villages were assembling, the Earl himselfrode out to the spot, and afterwards to Kilwinning and otherplaces, to inform the people how matters stood. His Lord¬ship stated that it was impossible to go on that day. Atevery place which he visited, the Earl was received with theloudest cheers for his attentive condescension, and every onewas more loud in his praise than another. The splendid ce¬remonial was spoiled by the weather, but his Lordship’s de¬sire to amuse the public, was a subject of unqualified eulo-gium.If the strangers could not see the tilting, they resolved tosee the tilting ground, and during the forenoon, the groundand lists were covered by some thousands who feasted theireyes, and expressed the hope that a change of weather mightyet. allow the tourney to be enacted in proper style. Thoughall regretted the event as we have said, no one could affixblame: and the result showed that causes, to which all humanintentions and actions sink into abject insignificance, hadalone, for a.time, clouded the expectations of the mass; forthe wish to gratify was prominent in every action of theLord of the Tournament. About mid-day the clouds dis¬persed, and the Sun showed his welcome countenance; thou,sands who had till then kept their chambers, were invitedout, and, at 2 o’clock, the grounds of Eglinton were nearlyas much crowded as before. All tins was cheering, and, nodoubt, his Lordship felt that a certain degree of responsibi¬lity attached to him in bringing from their homes, near athand and far away, legions of merchants, tradesmen, shop¬keepers, and indeed every class of the community, and thatit was his duty to gratify them by hook or crook. The wil¬ling mind can compass much, and at once his Lordship resolv¬ed that two day's tourney should take place, come whatmay, and Friday, at one o'clock, was fixed for the completionof the Tournament. Active and energetic measures wdreimmediately taken to counteract and nullify the effort of theprevious announcement, and the news that Friday would givea tournament llew with the rapidity of the “ Fiery Cross ofother days.” The announcement was everywhere receivedwith gladness; and it is our impression, that within half anhour after the resolution was formed, the news was in thepossession of twenty thousand people, and numberless per¬sons who had placed themselves under sailing orders, coun¬termanded their intentions, and resolved to bo there to see.The band of the 78th was brought to the lawn before thecastle, and played many spirit-stirring airs, while all assumedthe appearance of gladness.Within the castle, the excitement was not less. The ar¬mour had been early removed to the banquet-hall, where therust which the previous day liad attached to it, was removed21and all was placed in readiness for another bout. In this. room we had an opportunity of inspecting the gear in whichthe various Knights had appeared on the preceding day.From the weight of the detached pieces, the entire suit musthave been so heavy that our wonder grows how the knightswere able not only to support them, but to preserve their agi¬lity, and that cool, though active exertion which the practice' of the lists requires.The Great Pavilion having been damaged by the rain onWednesday, on the after part of Thursday it was dried alittle with numerous stoves, and many of the ladies and gen¬tlemen perambulated up and down in it. There were varioustilting matches on foot, the combatants being dressed in mail.There was also some exceedingly fine fencing with the stickand broadsword. A regular set-to with the sticks, betwixtPrince Bonaparte and a very young gentleman, Mr Charteris,aftbrded much amusement ; but the Prince only came offsecond best, as he afterwards did with the broadsword, infour or five splendid slapping bouts with Mr Charles .Lamb.Here the combatants were completely encased in mail, withvizors down. Had it not been so, and had the match beenone of life and death, the poor Prince would have had nochance with his opponent at this weapon, which seems to beindigenous in the hands of a Briton. The combatants were,of course, rewarded with the hearty applause of all present.It may be interesting to state that the armour used at theTournament on Wednesday was collected from all parts ofEurope, some of it belonging to the period of Richard II.,downward to that of Queen Elizabeth Many of the helmetsand breastplates were no joke to carry. The armour wornby the Earl of Eglinton was of the most beautiful description,and was laid out in the vestibule on the evening of the ball forthe inspection of the company.FRIDAY, AUGUST 30.As had been previously announced by his Eordship, thetilting was again resumed. The weather being fine, the as¬semblage of company was very great, notwithstanding thenumerous departures, and the procession, as it afterwardscame to the ground, was most splendid. Former disappoint¬ments were forgotten, and every heart was light and joyful.Lady Seymour, the Queen of Love and Beauty, took herplace in tlie procession, and was most enthusiastically cheeredalong the entire route. Her Ladyship was brilliantly dressed,and the trappings of her palfrey created scarcely less interest.Among the lady visitors were recognised Lady Montgomerie,Lady Jane Montgomerie, Lady Charleville, Miss Macdonald,and other ladies, to the number of nine, who were on horse-22b.K-k, their palfreys each attended by a page, and the Queen ofBeauty’s train was borne by her Majesty 's pages. Next in pointof attraction was a squadron of female archers, who also joinedin the procession. • These, to the number of 16, consisted of 1the titled damsels at present residing at Eglinton. • Theywere most beautifully and uniformly dressed for the spectacle.Above a robe of white silk or cotton, there was a tunic orjacket of green silk velvet, lined with rich fur The tur-bans were also of silk—Lincoln green. They, too, weretrimmed with fur as white as snow ; and even the sandalspartook of the national sporting colour of green. Along thewhole line of the route, the cheering was most enthusiastic,and LordT.glinton, as he richly deserved, came in for his fullshare of these plaudits, which he acknowledged in the mostcourteous manner.After due preparation, it was announced that the Knightof the Gael (Lord Glenlyon) and the Knight of the BlackLion (Viscount Alford) agreed to meet in the lists. Thecontest was a very good one, and eventually declared in fa- :vour of the Knight of the Gael, who shivered his lance againsthis opponent.The Herald then announced that a tilt would take place be¬tween the Knight of the Golden Lion (J. O. Fairlie), andthe Knight of the Griffin (Earl of Craven.) In the first tilt,both lances were touched, but no serious damage was done.In the second tilt, the Knight of the Golden Lion touchedthe lance of his opponent; and in the third tilt, the Knightof the Griffin broke his lance near the hilt, and victory de¬clared in his favour. The tilting of these knights was muchapplauded from the coolness and intrepidity of their pro¬ceedings.It was then announced that the Earl of Eglinton would tiltwith the Knight of the Red Rose (J. O. Lechmere.)In the first course they missed. Ditto in the second Inthe third course, Lord Eglinton broke his lance in capitalstyle, and was rewarded by the applause of the Queen ofBeauty and the public.Succeeding this tilt, the Herald moved opposite the seatof the Queen of Beauty, and after repeating “ O yes,” threetimes, announced that an Unknown Knight had challengedthe Knight of the Dolphin, (Earl Cassillis.) This createdconsiderable excitement, for it was understood that the Un¬known would be a German Prince of fame, and fortune;but the challenger did not appear, and the challenge dropped.It was then announced that the Unknown Knight not beingready, the Black Knight challenged the Knight of the Dra¬gon (Waterford.) In the first, both missed; second, ditto;in the third, the Black Knight splintered his lance, and gainedthe palm.In the next tilting, the Knight of the Dolphin (Earl Cas¬sillis) challenged the Knight of the Griffin (Earl Craven.)23First oourso, both missed; second, ditto; in the third, Em-1CassiUis hit his opponent, and was declared the winner. Nolances were broken.The Knight of the Ram (the Hon. Capt. Gage) then chal¬lenged the Knight of the Swan (Hon. F. Jerningham.) Threecourses were run without a single hit, and it was then offi¬cially announced that the match was undecided.The Knight of the Red Rose (Mr. Lechmere) then enteredthe lists against the Knight of the Griffin (Earl Craven.)Three tilts were run, without, however, the splintering ofa lance, and the Griffin was declared the winner.The last course was between the Knight of the Red Lion(J. O. Fairlie) with the Knight of the Burning Tower (SirF. Hopkins.) In the first tilt they slightly touched. In thesecond, the lance of the Red Knight was shivered. A thirdbout was tried, which was a miss ; and finally the palm wasadjudged to J. O. Fairlie, Esq.During the tilting, of which the above is a summary, theyoung noblemen and gentlemen were actively engaged in whatis called running at the ring—that is placing the ring sus¬pended by a rope, and allowing all parties to run a tilt at it,for the purpose of removing it, when the steed is at full gal¬lop. The Earl of Eglinton was one of the most successfulcompetitors in this department.As a termination, the total number of Knights rehelmedthemselves, and being started from the respective ends of thelists, they struck at each other with their swords in passing.Only one or two cuts were given ; but in the case of theMarquis of Waterford and Lord Alford, they turned backupon each other, and were plying their weapons in chival¬rous style, when they were separated by Sir C. Lamb.A splendid ball and banquet was held in the evening, andLord Eglinton announced that the tilting would be carriedon with all spirit the following day, should the weather per¬mit. The amusements in the field were not finished till afterT p.a.Lady Seymour is youngest daughter of the late ThomasSheridan, Esq., was married, on loth June, 1830, to EdwardAdolphus Lord Seymour, a Lord of tho Treasury, M. P.,eldest son of Edward Adolphus St. Maur, Duke of Somerset,and Baron Seymour^ in the Peerage of England, and a Bar¬onet ; Vice-Admiral of tho Coast of Somersetshire, Presidentof the Royal Institution, &c. The Duke of Somerset wasborn 24th February, 1775, succeeded 15th December, 1793,married, first, 24th June, 1800, Lady Charlotte Hamilton,second daughter of Archibald, 9th Duke of Hamilton, whodied 10th June, 1827 ; his Grace married, secondly, on 28thJuly, 1836, Margaret, eldest daughter of the late Sir MichaelShaw Stewart, Bart.24'file Montgomeries of Eglinton date their nobility from thetime of William the Norman; and the first of the race knownto British history signalised himself as leader of the first divi¬sion of his kinsman William’s army at the battle of Hastings,which established the conquest by the defeat of Harold. Adescendant of this warior, Sir J. Montgomery, of Eaglesham,in Renfrewshire, took Henry Lord Percy (Hotspur) prisonerwith his own hand at the battle of Otterbourne ; and marry¬ing a daughter of the ancient house of Egliuton and Ardros-san, by whom he acquired those baronies, the honours andestates of that family were superadded to his paternal inheri¬tance. In 1448 his son was created Lord Montgomery; andin 1507 the rank of an Earl was conferred on this noble race;and the present Earl (who is also a British Peer) is thothirteenth occupying that high position among the aristocracyof the empire, being connected by intermarriages, through along and brilliant succession with many of the chief nobility ofthe land, and even with the ancient royal blood of Scotland.The Earl of Eglinton is in his 27th year; and succeeded tothe large estate of his grandfather in 1819, when his Lordshipwas only seven, and he had therefore a long minority.Eglinton Castle is situate near the south-eastern extremityof Cunninghame, the most northerly of the three districtsinto which Ayrshire is divided, standing a short way inlandin the bosom of the noble and town skirted bay of the Firthof Clyde, which stretches in form of a crescent from theCumbraes to Ballater. The district of country which hasseen the “ field, feast, and combat" of former times renewed,is rich in the most elevated associations. It is “ the land ofBruce and of Burns.” The ground has been hallowed by thedeeds of chivalry, the genius of poesy, the spirit of religion,and the energy of patient industry. It was here that Wal¬lace, when the liberties of his country had been cloven down,first struggled to restore its independence; and here it waswhere “ many a hero shone,”—“ Where Bruce once ruled the martial ranks,And shook his Garrick spear.”Nor should it be forgotten that in more recent times thehamlets of Kilwinning and Irvine, in the immediate vicinityof Egliuton Castle, were illustrated by tho moral lights oianother age—when Bailie and Dickson were pastors in thesehumble parsonages, yet were associated with the Nobles of theday in a great national movement two hundred years ago—notthat the wide-spread plains which now gladden the eye, smil¬ing in all the golden promise of autumn’s abundance, wereonce scourged and desolated by the bloody hand of persecu¬tion, under the auspices of the infamous Turner, and his yetmore infamous masters.j NEitsoN, parniER.'W