pPurgatory Proved, Illustrated, and setforth in a Clear Light.A FUNERALSERMON.By Father MURTAUGH O’LAVERY, Priertof the Parishes ot St John’s, Dromore,and Machrelin.Upon the death of one of his Parishioners.To which is addedThe Consociation of a Murderer of Heretick Prin¬ces •, used by the Jesuits in Popish CountriesAlso, a number of Popish Miracles.Printed for the Booksellers.PURGATORYProved, Illustrated, and set forth in a Clear Light.My Friends,YOU all know, it ish a cushtotnary ting vidde Clergy, fen dey are going to preach aSharmon, dat dey vill be tak a text from shumparticular plash of de Scripture; but for dat veryrashon, because he ish cushtomary, I vill not doit. For I love to be shingular*, and ycu knowshingularity in the right, ish never a crime yet.And ash dere are a great many of you gatherhere upon dish occashon, shum vid an honestintention, no doubt, to be instructed dan layyourshelves open to de conviction of the truth,shum perhaps, to make shest of our Holy Decree,and laugh at de fooleries of de Mass, as dey villprofanely speak : In short, as dere are a greatmany of you gather he, shum Phipsyterian, shumShurch of Englishman, and shum Roman Catholic,,I shall preach you a sharmon in English, dat youvill all equally understand fat I vas shay.And de shubject I chuse to insist upon as demost proper for dish occasion, ish Purgatory;(de most advantageous and beneficial doctrine ofour Shurch,) de method I s(hali observe ish dish:First, I shall prove to yob, dat dere ish really[jsuch a plash as Purgatory, Or a Limbus PratumJjwhere de shouls of ail our friends, depart tishdlife, do go, and are purge from deir remaining^shins and pollutions.3Shecondly, I vill describe dish Purgatory toyou.Furdly, I vill show you de Pennance and Pur¬gation of dat Purgatory.And Lastly, Apply de doctrine to dish preshentoccasion.For proofs of de first ting den; Dat dere dishreally such a plash ash Purgatory, or a Limbus1 Patrum, where de shoals of all our friends de¬part dish life, do go, and are purge from deirremaining shin and pollution: I need shay nomore to you who are Catholics, den dish, Datit ish a doctrine upheld by our unerring counshels,confirmed by de Pope himshelf, and stamped vidde able autority of de Shurch: Fat need you,who believe in dat Shurch already, any moreproof for a doctrine, den dat she ish your Oracle,and your infallible Guide. She ish in de plashof your rear on, senses, and understanding, andhas power to shudge and decree, and detemine,and dictate, and ordain, in all matters of doctrine,and all dat tend to your bodies and estates, andall dat do relate to dish vorld, or de next vorldto come v fat ever derefore she bid you shay, youmust shay ; fat ever she bid you do, you must do;without ever pretending to link or shudge foryourshelves, as de hereticks shay, dat vid beblaspheming ’gainst her most holy autority: nay,it vid be most horrid impudence and damnableheresy.But for de benefit and conviction of oder de¬nominations, who pretend to see vi’ deir own eyes,4ash de shaying ish, and thro’ de great abundancof deir ignorance, vid shudge for demshelves, idese deep matter, I viil show de proof upowhich our hoty'Shurch has vounded dish doctrimlAnd first, we are told in de Scripture, shum fernnor noder, Dat all tings shall be prove by fire, frsort dey are ; dat if any mans build ’pon found'dition, such as hay, nor straw, nor stubble, noiany such combustible materials, he vill suffijjdamage nor loss, and de superstructure shallburn down, yet he himshelf shall be shaved, bsho as by fire, dat ish, my friends, de Purgatori:fire of de turd plash.Again, Our Shaviour did raise up van Lazartfrom de dead, after he had been five nor tree dein de grave till he was stinking again : Now phewas dat man’s shoul all dat while ? Ah ! ah 1hell he could not be, for out of hell dere ish rredemption: In heaver, he cou’d not be, for cshoys and pleasures of dat happy plash aregreat, he never vid come back to dish vickevorld of ours again, and go into a stinking carca;dat was most rotten in a grave: Ergo, it vashPurgatory, or de turd plash.But. again, between our Shaviour’s crucifixiand ascension, it vash forty day, a great wh;my friends, near six veek Now where vash Iall dat while ? In heaven he vash not ascendein hell he could not be, for out of hell dere isredemption, as I’ll shay before. Where den vahe; Let any Heretick of you all answer dat noby de shoul of de holy priest, der vash no oplash for him to be, but our own tuid plash,ish Purgatory.But lest I should tire your patience, I vill co5-elude dish head vid one proof more, phich is deonly article dat supports dish doefine.And first. We are told in de Holy Gospel ofSt. Shenesis, sbum phere nor noder, Dat we areall corrupted and contaminated vid de pollutionsof shin, dat no man liv'eih and shineth not, datdere are none righteous, no not van. Again,we are told in de holy Prophecies of de Evange¬lists, shum where nor noder, Dat no uncleanting shall enter into de kingdom of Heaven:Where den shall dey go? All, we hope viil notgo to hell piping hot: For dere are a great manymens, and true Roman Catholics, but dey arenot so good as to be fit for dat holy plash, where¬in entereth noting dat ish unclean, neither anyting that defiieth. It remains den, dey must goto Purgatory, where dey shall be cleansht andpurged from their remaining pollutions and con¬taminations of deir shins till dey be made fit forde kingdom of heaven. And now let the Prop-testants shay fat dey please, I tell you, by de; shoul of de holy priest, dere is no possibility of► ever getting to heaven, till dey first go dere andi undergo deir pennance. It is plain den, de shoulsof all our friends depart dish life, as well as dishperson now deceas, vent to Purgatory, as de turdplash.But fither you ever hear fat short a plash dishpurgatory ish, and fat your friends vash suffer¬ing dere, I cannot tell—you never did ftom me,nshI remember, and by de conscience, I know nobody else vash able to teach yoj d'tt doctrine butmyshelf, I shall derefore take dish opportunityof explaining her a little to you.And in de first plash, It is a very large plash0you may be sure, fen it receives for purgationall tiue Catholics, who are de most numerouspeople ’pon face of de earth: For beside allFrance nor Spain, nor Italy, nor Rome, areCatholics, dere are a great many more, who aredispersed through de kingdoms of de vorld ; deProtestants themshelves, phen dey count headsvid ush, find, to dere great shorrovv, dat we aremore than two turds of the inhabitants of Ireland,who are profest Cathos •, beside a great many more,who, for getting into de revenue, and de oderadvantageous hosts, have called demshelves Prop-testarns, (and by de shoul of my dear gossip,dere are a very great numbers of dem too,) butare true Roman Catbo’s in deir harts, who villget indulgence from de Pope, have de priest, andde administration- of holy oyle at deir dead, andvill get de benefit of Purgatory, and de benefitof de clergy, so veil as any of you all; and dishmake one half of t’oder turd, so dat you shee,dere are but o very few who are our hearty ene¬mies, most of which are damn’d black phiggishPhipsyterians; oh, oh, the devil run away withthem all.But here, by de bye, you may observe phat aparcel of poor-spirited, cowardly-hearted sohs ofwhores of bitches are we, to be so long keepdown by a parcel of damn’d hereticks; if weMould but take courage and begin, dey vill benoting in our hands; but if we submit via aslavish subsheetion to deir heretick government,ark hinder to carry arms, made mere soles to deirbrogues—but by my own shoul we vil! have ourday about vid dem yet.—Our plots viil at lastSucceed : de king of Spain, and de king of France,4&c. vash picking quarrels vid dem, vid deir de¬predations, and deir Guarda Costa’s and fat not:aue, aue, aue, by my shouldey vili fall on at last,arrd take courage, and swinge dem bravely: deyare making great preparation, arming fleets andships, and putting out land forces ; dey are verypowerful armies, de whole vorld, ah ! and by deHoly Shaint Bridget, Europe itshelf is no ableto vidstand dem, Dey vill tell you of dear man’sof War, and deir Haddoks, and deir Vernons,and de devil know fat, vill sink, and stop and de¬stroy our ships, leave dem upon de bottom of deseas, ai»d never let dem put deir leg upon Irishground more: dat de king of Spain feared fordish, and vill pay de convention and not fight:by my sheul he vill fight and beat too,—’tish decause of de Holy Shurch he’s defending, and deI gates of hell vill never prevail against him. Derevill be shiftance enough I’ll varrant yoii; all deShaints, our Holy Moder Shurch, all de Scotch,and by my shoul, de Virgin Mary hershelf villfight for us; den we vill succeed to be sure, pos¬ses our rights and estates again, and establish ourholy religion through all Ireland, a«id I mysheif; may be Lord of frumney, and of Lavry’s-Bog,before l vash die yet.But after so long a digression, I must returnto my explanation of Purgatory.In de shecond plash for its situation ; it ishsbust, my friends, in de middle between heavenand hell; from hell on one side by a small papervail only, but from heaven upon t’oder by a strongvail of adament, vid gal# of brass, of which Peterkeep de key, who vash himself a true Catholic,for he vash once Pope, and all our Popes evert8since are his successors, and all descended fromhim by a right line of ecclesiastic^ genealogy.You vill understand de ting better, when I villillustrate her to you by de following similitude;You all know' Mr. Harrison’s house upon deMiravel, phen you vill go in, dere is de parlourupon one hand, dere is de kitchen upon t’oder,dere ish de hall in de middle. Veil den, de par¬lour ish Heaven, de kitchen ish Hell, and de hallish Purgatory in de middle; when any van likemyshelf, who ish in de habit of a shentleman, datish, who is a Roman Catholic, goes in, he villbe shown to de parlour, but before he ish entitledto enter, he must wipe, and rub, and clean hisfoot upon a mat, which lie dere for dat purpose;dat ish, he must do de pennance and purgation©f dat turd plash, dat ish, he must have moneyupon his pocket too, to pay his reckoning; or hevill not be admitted into de parlour. Dish ish,lie must pay do clergy for praying him out ofPurgatory, or by my sh®ul, Peter vill not let himente.7 into de kingdom of Heaven : you know veilenough, if a man has money upon his pocket,spends lavishly, nor pays well, Mr. Harrison, norany oder inn-keeper vill be very civil upon him,take him into his parlour, show him a great dealof courtesy and good manners, and vill vait uponhim vid every ting he’ll vant; but if he’s poor,nor viW not pay, he vill shut de door upon him,nor kick him out.—It is shust so my my friendsvid Peter, if you pay de Clergy veil, and supportde Shurch, Peter vill come vid his cap in hishand, open de gate and velcome you dere, butif you are poor, nor won’t pay, by de Holy Cross!he vill shut de door upon you, nor kick you out.9Bat again. If any one come into de hall viidirty or ragged apparel, as de Phipsyttrians andall oder hereticks do, dey vill be immediately trusdown into de kitchen, dat ish hell, my friends;no question vill be ask, no excuse vill be hear,but away dey vill be hairy, vidout repleven, norbenefit of de clergy.And ish brings me, in de turd plash, to con¬sider de pennance and purgation dat de shouls ofour dear departed friends do shuffer dere, and un¬dergo in dish turd plash.De sheverest ot one of which punishments ish,de stink of hereticks thionging through to hell:de damnable stench of de phiggish Phipsyterians,which make me curl my nose to tink upon it:but de best of it ish, dey are not suffer to tanylong, or be slow in deir passage thro’ Purgatory,lest dey should contaminate de consecrated plashvid de emanation of deir heresy.De shecond punishment is occasioned by itsbeing situate upon de very edge of hell: for deplash is all laid vid great flags of iron, and platesof brass which are strongly heated, by de forceof de great fires, at phich de hereticks are roast¬ing one another upon spits, dat ’tis great tormentto valk upon dem. You know phen you villthrow off your brogues by de fire-side at night,and set your bare foots upon de stone in de harth—he vill be very shore,—ah! wocfent he?—By my shoul, yon is five hundred times as soreas dat. Or, if you would make a truly experi¬ment of de ting, take a girdle and put her ’ponde fire till she be most red hot, den set her downand clap your bare arre upon her, dat vill be anearer resemblance of her still*, but vill not come10up to her yet. I know it ish a cushtomary ting■ vid us Catho’s to provide against our dear departedfriends setrering dish torment, by putting a pairof new brogdes upon deir kush in de coffin : whichI do confesh may do shum service, daf ish, if deyfake care to pay de priest veil for he may praydem out before de brogue be burn, but if not, dedevil a small potatoe he vill signify ! For you knowif he stay long in, de sole of de brogue vill soonbe burn, and den fat better vill he be ? It ishbetter to give de price ot de brogue it shelf to^depriest, and he vili pray dem out sho much soonerden de brouge vill last.But de turd and greatest punishment of it isha great big black ugly devil of a vomans, datstands dere vid an iron flail, and she’s be trash¬ing dem through all de plash in a most terriblemanner: And fat ever part of de body vas guiltyof de shin, she vill be trashing upon dat very part.If he vash drunkenness nor gluttony, she vill betrashing ’pon de belly. If he vash teeving, shevill come upon deir lingers vid her long flail, tillshe vill break all deir nuckle again ; and if he vashadultery nor fornication ; ah, ah, ah! you mayguess yourshelves who will get his paymentsoundly. In short, she vill be trashing and trash¬ing, till de devil a bit of flesh vill she leave ’ponyour bone, and dey vill be roaring and shouting,and cursing deir friends, dat vill give noting tode clergy to pray dem out of dat torment.Now my friends, you all know veil enough,de priest hath a dispensing power over desc tor¬ments, fen he pleases, dat ish, if he’s paid forhim; but by my shou' nr-‘ else; for to grantabsholution vidout payment, would be quite over-11turn tie Shurch: ’Tls de main pillar dat shupiports her; nay, ’tish- de very foundation uponwhich she is build.1 tink now, my friends, I have prove to youdat dere ish really such a plash as Purgatory ; anddat de shouls of all our friends depart dish life,are dere, so veil as dish person now deceas.In de shecond plash, I have described Purga¬tory to you. And turdly, I have shewn you phatterrible tings your friends are Suffering dere, anddat I myshelf, as being a priest in dish parish,have a power of releasing anv one from de$e tor¬ments—if I am paid for him.Who den among you vill give a groat to havedish man’s shoul out of Purgatory. Come youmens dere.—Veil—dere ish one groat—makehaste, you are very slow.Veil dere ish 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7» 8, 9, 10groat.—Vill no bodies more give?—Vash ishman’s shoul worth no more den ten groat ? Aue,aue, aue, a poor story indeed ! Phat Phelemy,vill you give noting, nor you Turlogh, arra youdevils, are you not all his revelations ?—Come,you vomans dere, give money, nor yarn, nor but¬ter, nor flax, nor something. Come, VarridShane, Anna and Shuga and all ©f you. Fat dedevil are you going ? Fat, no more groats.—Veil,pho vill give tree pence ? Very veil; Vid no bodymore give tree pence ? Pho vill give two pense ?Pho vill give one penny itshelf ? Not one pennymore to be got among you ? Ah, ah, you are apack of hard hearted vicked devils! and mepreachin tho long, and sho good a sharmon toyou, dat you never did hear before, dast cost mea whole quarter of a year in studying him for de12gcod cf your shouls: And you vill give noting)Tor de shupport of my body.I owe Joseph Usher of Mackrelin for dish coatupon my back, and depended upon dish day forgetting de money, but de devil a one half, norone quarter I’ll get yet; phich if I do not im¬mediately, he vill put me upon confinement in de !county goal: and den you devils, you shee fatvill become of your shouls.Now you dat have got not the full groats,’twash better for you to have given noting at all}for de punishment of yc.r friend^ vill not only bescorching and scorching, &c. but halving andquartering, and tearing in pieces. For you datgive tree pence, I vill pray tree quarters of yourfriend out, and leave t’oder quarter in for t’cderpenny. And you dat give but one penny, I vi!»pray one quarter out, t’oder tree shall remain intorment as before. So you dat have no money,borrow you devils, borrow and make up de fullgroat.Gloria Padria JV/iillo Spriduo Sf S/iatito, Amen,l.etmeshee, dere ish, - - - - .aCllSGBy my shoul, he vash no bad codec- } j ■,tion, after all dat now. S ' JEND OE THE SERMON.13? The Consecration ef a Murderer of Flereticl Princes;used by the Jesuits in Pobish countries.I - ! ; ;—^|~'HOSE that are counted heretick?, by Papists,| JL are by law and right deprived of all theyhave, the Pope can authorize the orthodox mem¬bers of the church, i. e. his own subjects, totake possession ; and whatever means are neces¬sary thereunto, he can legitimate and make law¬ful, as poisoning, assassinating, blowing up withgun-powder, See. It is an approved thing amongthem, a case deliberately determined by the in¬fallible head of the church, that the killing ofkings and queens, excommunicated by the Pope,is no murder, nay that it is meritorious to destroyhereticks.And, as they encourage the murder of suchprinces as they call hereticks, so they have asolemn form ot preparing an assassin for his un¬dertaking.The person designed for the work, is secretlyintroduced into the meditary or oratory : there aknife wrapped up in linen is taken out of an ivorycase, marked all round with various characters,together with an Agnus Dei. Upon this, as itis drawn out of the sheath, they drop holy waterand consecrated coral beads upon the haft j grant¬ing an indulgence of delivering as many souls outof purgatory, as he shall give wounds to the prince,whom they design to assassinate : Then they putthe knife into the hand of the parricide, recom¬mending it in these words, “ Elect son of God,14-A•take this sword of Jephthah, the sword of Samson,the sword of David, with which he cut off Goliah’ahead, the sword of Gideon, the sword of Judith, Ithe sword of the Maccabees, the sword of the fPope, by which he has delivered himself fromthe hands of princes, having spilt verv much bloodin their dominions j Go and be prudently coura-gious, may God strengthen thy arm.-’ This be¬ing done, they all fall dow n upon their knees,and the chief of them pronounces this exorcism:“ Be present ye cherubim, be present ye seraphim,ye thrones, ye power , be present, ye holy angels, |!and fill this blessed vessel with perpetual glory,and every day offer him the crown of the blessedVirgin Mary, of the holy patriarchs and martyrs;he is no longer a member of our communiom, butyours: ^nd then, O God, who art terrible andinvincible, and who in the medirory hast put itinto his heart to destroy a tyrant and heretick, andconfer his crown on a catholic king ; strengthen, Iwe beseech thee, his hands and increase his cou- 3rage, that he may accomplish his will; give him ||an omnipotent mail, whereby he may escape the Ifunds of those who would apprehend him; give ihim wings, by which his holy members lay escape the endeavours of barbarous betrayers ; pour jjinto his soul thy chearing rays, by which,his body «without fear, in the midst of dangers and tortures, jmay be animated with joy and exultation.’’ Afterthis exorcism, the parricide is brought before thealtar, over which is painted the history »f JaquesClement, a Dominican monk, with the imagesof angels protecting him, and carrying him toheaven. This the Jesuits shew him, and withal,present him un heavenly crown, saying, “ Regard,15O Lord, this thine ?.rm, and the executor of thyju.'tice, let a*! the saints arise and give him place.”' After, these ceremonies, tour Jesuits are deputedto talk with the panicide alone, these, duringtheir discourse, ate wont often to say, that thereappears in him a divine sort of brightness, by theradiancy of which they are moved to kiss his handsand feet, and that he no longer seems to them to!be a man, but a heavenly saint; they pretendalso to envy the great glory and blessedness towhich he is now advanced, sighing and saying,“ Would to God I had been chosen in thy room,that being delivered from the punishment of Pur-: gatory, I might have gone directly to paradise.”: But, if he whom they judge proper to perpetratethe murder be backward and reluctant, then theyeither force him tb make such a vow by nightlyill bugbears, and monstrous spectres, or animatei and introduce him to the enterprise, by contriv-! apparitions of the Virgin Mary, or angels, or other;i saints, and sometimes of Ignatius and his fol-li lowers.|j Popish Miracles.A CERTAIN peasant r>f Auvergne, a pro-;vince in France, perceiving that his beeswere likely to die, to prevent this misfortune, wasadvired, aKer he had received the communion, toI keep the host, and to blow it into one of his hives ;and, on a sudden, all the bees came forth out oftheir hives, and ranking themselves in good order16lifted the host up from the ground, and carryingit in upon their wings, placed it among the combs.After this the man went out about his business,and at his return, found that this advice had suc¬ceeded contrary to his expectation, for all hisbees were dead. Nay, when he lifted up thehive, he saw that the host was turned into a fairchild among the honey combs ; and being much |astonished at this change, and seeing that this in¬fant seemed to be dead, he took it in his hands, jintending to bury it privately in the church, butwhen he came to do it, he found nothing in hishands; fur the infant was vanished away. Thisthing happened in the county of Clermont, whichfor this irreverence, was, a while after, chastisedby divers calamities, which so dispeopled thoseparts, that they became like a Wilderness. Fromwhich it appears, that bees honour th* holy hostdivers ways, by lifting it from the earth, and carry¬ing it into their hives, as it were in procession.”Let the reader remember, it was the God whomPapists worship, that w'as indebted to the beesfor shelter in their hive.A certain poor man going to visit his bees, per¬ceived them to make a sweet harmony: he stoodravished a while with it, not knowing what itmeant. The nig'ht following, as he went aboutsome business, and cr.ting his eyes towards thebees, he perceived them to rejoice, and sport them¬selves, making an admirable meicdy. First, heinformed the curate of it, and afterwards brokeup his hive, where he found a box made of wax,but ot such admirable whiteness, that it lookedlike ivory ; and within it the holy sacrament adored17by the bees, who ranged themselves into twol:choirs, and sang the praises of their Creator.!The Bishop ordered a procession to carry back(the holy host of the church ; and in that place waserected a sumptuous chapel, which became a placei of refuge for the sick and the afflicted. When nobody knew from whence, and by whom, that hosti had been brought there, two thieves of their ownaccord discovered themselves, and confessed, thathaving stolen a box, they had thrown the hosti against the hives. By which miracle we see that: the bees adore the holy host, and sing the divine: praises, dividing themselves into two choirs.”A certain woman, having received the com-ri munion unworthily, carried the host to her hives,I for to enrich the stock of bees; and afterwards:i coming again to see the success, she perceivedI that the bees, acknowledging their God in the3 sacrament, had, with^dmirable artifice, erectedJ to him a chapel of wax, with its doors, windows,II bells, and vestry ; and within it a chalice whereH they laid the holy body, of Jesus Christ. Sh«i could no longer conceal this wonder. The pritstbeing advertised of it, came thither in procession,and he himself heard harmonious music, whichthe bees made, flying round about the sacrament;and having taken it out, he brought it back to thechurch full of comfort, certifying, that he hadseen and heard our Lord acknowledged andpraised by these little creatures.An old and simple priest, of the parish of St.Colen, carrying the holy sacrament out of townto a sick person, and going up a very rough hillmet some loaded asses descending towards thetown; and the way being very narrow, and thepriest not being able to get past them, and fear¬ing to be overturned by those beasts, he spoka tothem according to his simplicity in this manner:My asses 1 what do you mean ? Do ye not seehim whom I carry ? Go aside, and stop to makeroom for your Creator, which I command you inhis name. O admirable obedience ! L'hose asses,which used not to stir but when they were beaten, Jpresently went to one side, where the hdl wasmore steep, without apprehending any danger, orletting fall their load. The to wn of Colen remem¬bers this wonder to this day, and mentioneth itwith astonishment.In the 16th century, within the Venetian ter¬ritories, a priest carrying the holy host, withoutpomp or train, to a sick person, he met, out ofthe town, asses going to their pasture v who per¬ceiving by a certain sentiment, what it was whichthe priest carried, they divided themselves intotwo companies on each side of the way, and fellon their knees. Whereupon the priest, with hisclerk, all amazed, passed between those peaceablebeasts, which then rose up, as if they would makea pompous show in honour of their Creator; lol-lowed the priest ns far as the sick man’s house,where they waited at the door till the priest cameout from it, and did not leave him till he hadgiven them his blessing. Father Simon Rodri¬guez, one of the first companions of St. Ignatius,who then travelled in Italy, informed himself care¬fully of this matter, which happened a little while19before our first Fathers came into Italy, and foundh?^: all had happened as has been told.A Jew blaspheming the holy sacrament, daredto say, that if the Christians would give it to hisdog, he would eat it up, without showing anyregard to their God. The Christians being veryangry at this outrageous speech, and trusting inthe Divine Providence, had a mind to bring it toa trial: so, spreading a napkin on the table, theylaid on it many hosts, among which one only wasiconsecrated. The hungry dog being put upon|the same table, began to eat them all, but com¬ing to that which had been consecrated, withouttouching it, he kneeled down before it, rind after¬wards fell with rage upon his master, catchingi him so closelr by tiio nose, that he took it quiteaway with his teeth.— The same which St. Mat-Ithew warns such like blasphemers, saying, ‘ Givemot that which is holy unto dogs, lest they turnagain and rend you.’St. Anthony of Padua, disputing one day withone of the most obstinate heretics that denied theitruth of the holy sacrament, drove him to such a(plunge, that he desired the saint to prove thisrtruth by some miracle. St. Anthony acceptedI the condition, and said he would work it upon hismule. Upon this the heretic kept her three dayswithout eating and drinking; and the third day,the saint, having s,'.id mass, took up the host, andmade him bring forth the hungry mule, to whomhe spoke thus :—In the name of the Lord, I com-i mand thee to come and do reverence to thyCreator, and confound the malice of heretics-20While the saint made this discourse to the mule,the heretic sifted out oats to make the mulejeat;but the beast having more understanding than insmaster, kneeled before the host, adoring it as itsCreator and Lord. This miracle comforted aUthe faijhful, and enraged ;he heretics; except himthat disputed with the saint, who was convertedto the Catholic faith.About the year 1549, a poor friendless boy, ofwhose birth probably his parents had beenashamed, tended the sheep belonging to the nunsof Scienna, or Sciennes, about a quarter of a mile|south from Edinburgh, It was one of his child¬ish amusements to turn up the white of his eyes,and, in doing it, he succeeded so well, as to beable, at his pleasure, to make himself appear per¬fectly blind. The nuns observed him in hisamusement, and spoke of it to some priests andfriars who were their visitors. It immediatelyoccurred to ihem, that if proper care was takenof this young person, he might, in course of time,become the fit subject of a miracle.The innocent child was secreted from publicview, it has been said, seven or eight years, andmostly in one of the cells, or some retired apart¬ment in the convent. At the end of that numberof years, his stature and features were so muchaltered, as that he couid not easily be recollectedby the very few persons who formerly had knownhim. He was now judged to be of a proper ageto be sent forth as a blind mendicant, and to re¬ceive instructions how he should behave. A per¬son was hired to conduct him, who believed himto have been born blind, and to have been hitherto- J. ^21supported chiefly by charitable contributions fron»the ladies of Sienna.'I he simple young man, who scarcely knewany ether people in the world than those underwhose tuition he had been held, readily promisedto obey their injunctions. They bound him by a'„solemn, but rash vow, to affect blindness, andto beg alms, till they should advertise him to *hecontrary. He kept his promise, and, for a con¬siderable space of time, was led through thacountry, receiving such alms as benevolent peoplewere pleased to give him.At last the period arrived when those priestsand friars who were in the secret of his not be¬ing really blind, thought it expedient that heshould be relieved from his hard condition —At the east end of the village of Musselburgh,in Mid-Lothian, was a celebrated chapel, dedi¬cated to the honour of the Virgin Mary. Itsproper name was Loretta, but it was viflgarly< ailed Alariet, or Lawriet. There was also a(hapi'l of the same name in Perth; and manyeredulous people in the Lothians, and at Perth,as well as the people of Loretta, in Italy, believedthat their chapel contained within it the identicalsmall brick built house in which the blessed Mo¬ther of our Lord had dwelf when at Nazareth;and that it had been miraculously conveyed andt pheld entire, from its original seat, by the minis¬try of angels.—It was in the well frequented chapel at Mussel-1 urgh, and where miracles were most commonlyexpected to be seen, that the pupil of the nunswas to teceive his sight. Public intimation, ofhe miracle to, be performed, was given in Edi»-22burgh, and in the neighbouring parts, and on theday appointed, a prodigious number of peoplewere assembled. They found that there was af!stage ereeted on the outside of the chapel. Hav-|ing waited a little while, they beheld, led forwardliupon this stage, the seemingly blind young man,Jjwhom many of them knew, and whose blindnesslthey had probably often pitied. He was by priests|land friars., and, no doubt, also by Thomas, thejHermit, (a famous worker of miracles,) if he was!then ali.-e. After some time spent in the use of®prayers and ceremonies, his dyes, to the satisfac- |:tion of the multitude, appeared to be perfectlyrestored. The young man, who had long been irestricted from employing honest means for hissubsistence, now sincerely rejoiced. He returnedthanks to the priests and friars; and when hecame down from tire stage, was caressed andcongratulated by the people, and some of whom,gave him money.A Protestant gentleman who was present, de ¬tected the cheat, and tock the young man’into hisservice.Of the “ many good men” that suffered deatlunder Archbishop Beaton,—The first was Mr,Patrick Hamilton, Abbo, of Perm, a man noblydescended, for he was nephew to the Earl ofArran, by his father, and to the Duke of Albany*by his mother, and not much past twenty-threeyears of age. This young man had travelled inGermany, and falling in familiarity with Martin,; Luther, Philip Melanpthon, Francis Lambert, andother: learned men, was by them instructed in theknowledge of true religion, in the profession ■23whereof he was so zealous, as he was resolvedto cone back into his country, and communicatethe light he had received, unto others. At hisreturn, wheresoever he came, he spared not tolay open the corruptions of the Roman Church,and to show the errors crept into Christian reli- 'gion. The clergy grudging at this, under colourof conference, enticed him to the city of St.Andrews. Having stayed some few days in thecity, whilst he suspected no violence to be used,under night he was apprehended, being in bed,i and carried prisoner to the castle ; the next day; he was presented before the Bishop, accused of: maintaining the doctrines of the Reformation.| The same day, he was condemned by the seculari| judge, and, in the afternoon led to his place ofsufferings which was appointed to be at the gate:i of St. Salvator’s college. Being come to the place,11 he put off his gown, and gave it, with his bonnet,i coat, and other apparel to his servant, saying,i this stuff will not help in the fire, yet will do theesome good ; I have no more to leave thee but thef] example of my death, which I pray thee keep inji; mind. For albeit the same be bitter, and pain-i ful in man’s judgment, yet is it the entrance toj everlasting life, which none can inherit, who de-j nieth Christ before this congregation. Then washe tied to the stake; about it a great quantity ofcoal, wood, and other combustible matter washeaped, whereof he seemed to have no fear, butrj seriously commending his soul into the hands of’! Ciod, held his eyes fixed towards heaven. Thei executioner firing the powder that was laid toi kindle the wood, his left hand and the side of his. face were a little scorched therewith, yet the fire24did not kindle. Whereupon some were sent tthe castle to bring more*pdwder; whilst this wtbringing, he uttered divers comfortable speech;to them that stood by; the friars all that timmolesting him with their cries, bidding him corvert, pray to our lady, and say Salve Regina ,amongst them none was more troublesome tha|jFriar Alexander Campbell, who kept compan|with him, at his first coming to the city. Oftdrhe besought him to depart, and not to vex hirrbut whyi he would not cease his crying, he sai*wicked man; thou knowest that I am not a heretiand that it is the truth oLGod for which I nosuffer; so much thou didst confess to me in prvate, and, therefore, t appeal thee to answer before the judgment-seat of Christ.The powder by this time was brought, and tlifire kindled, after which, with a loud voice fwas heard to say, how long, O Lord, shall dar!ness oppress the realm ? how long wilt thou sufer this tyranny of men ? and then closed hspeeches with these words, Lord Jesus receivmy spirit. His body was quickly consumed,the fire was vehement, but the patience and constancy he showed in his dying, stirred up suecompassion in the beholders, as many *f thedoubted not to say that he suffered aa innocemand was indeed a martyr of Christ.