Ivj. XV ii. Pritf One Penny.HISTORY OF ,I1 he Set*ff ink JfJarf fur*.A bKLECTJON OF .AMUSING AND iNS’i'KUCTlVO•., ; ; {. cosiPRisiM.Q ;>& v ' • - v. ,.LIVES of GREAT WAH HIOKS & STATEgMfciMC»!V SEA" & -litiWh;HISTORIES nr niFFFREM GUUK l R ITS, ,'ACCOUNTS OF RV^X'T?.;■ CHARACTFltS. -mA !VT>t/>‘TfOUV OFF tN Of, H$ -USEFUL FAMH.V RSr Ki^'TRj G<v.iki;k t. &<’.!wii} Midi ■ . . > ii t, .TRINfFH FOR.THK BOOK-*: IPy Ji. Ailx/jjjxe, LuZh/i,IIHISTORY Of THEScottish Jflartyrs.W hkn the doctrines of the Reformation werefirst introduced into Scotland, the Catholic clergy,in the true spirit of bigotry and intolerance pecu¬liar to their religion, determined to arrest theirprogress, by adopting a system of cruel and unre¬lenting persecution against all who propagated orfavoured them. Their inhumanity, however, hada direct contrary effect to that which was expectedor intended. In this, as in all cases of excessiveor unmerited severity, sympathy was excited forthe sufferers; and, by a natural consequence, *presentiment feeling of detestation became to be en¬tertained for their persecutors. And thus theV>sCatholic clefgr;' in place of fiiiWailig the hostiledoctrines whicli were abroad, and regaining thei confidence of mankind, which their immoralityand knavery had forfeited, hastened the dissemi-i| nation of the one, and the total annihilation of theother.Amongst the first who introduced the reformeddoctrines, or, as they were then called, heresies,into Scotland, was Patrick Hamilton, abbot ofFern, near Brechin ; and he was also the first in'that country who fell a martyr to the Cause of thereformed religion. Hamilton^ who was onlytwenty-three years of age at the tirfte of his death,'was connected with the first families in the king-'dom ; he was nephew to the Earl of Arran by hisfather, and to the duke of Albany by his mother.This amiable young man, for he Was of a mild'and inoffensive disposition, having returned fromGermany, whether he had gone for improvement,and where he had imbibed the doctrines of Luther,wag summoned before a council, held at St. An¬drew’s, by Archbishop Beaton, and accused ofheresy by bishops, abbots, friars, black and grev,who had all assembled to sit in judgment on onewhose doctrines struck at the root of their powerand of their worldly comforts. Hamilton’s prin¬cipal accuser, on this occasion, was an infamousknave, a friar of the name of Campbell, who hadbeen appointed to associate with the unsuspectingabbot in order to discern the nature and extent ofhis heretical tenets. This he accomplished byaffecting to coincide with the opinions of his vic¬tim ; whom, by this treachery, he led on to a fulldisclosure of his sentiments on the subject of re¬ligion, and the then state of the church. WhenHamilton was brought before the council, Ca no-bell step! forward as his accuser, and rend the ar¬ticles of liis impeachment,Thesri a* no ubinieresiing ypedmeii of Ihe r**~ Jlioious sehtimentg of tt»e early Itetormers* and of ithe ra[)id proi^res* v\inc!) they t-eem to liave inade i>in the knoyrledfie of truth, we jihall give at somelength He was accused uf’ having said, “ J'hatit is lawful for any man to read the word of God,and especially the New Testament,” considered aiheinous offence by the Catholic clergy. “ I saidnot so,” replied Hamilton, “but 1 said, and stillsay, that it is lawful to all men to read the wordof God, that they may understand it, that theymay acknowledge and repent « f their sins, and |thus amend their lives by faith and repentance,and finally attain to salvation by Je«us Christ,”I see by this answer,” replied his,accuser Camp¬bell, “ that you acknowledge the accusationbrought against you.'’ “ I acknowledge nothing,”isaid Hamilton, “but wbat I have just now spokenin presence of this assembly.’’ Campbell notvproteedetl to the oilier points of the charge.“ You have further said,” he continued, “that illi* hot ^lawful to worship imagery.” “I say no¬thing further,” replied Hamilton, “ than as Godspeaks to men in the twentieth chapter of Exo¬dus, in the second commandment, Thou shall notmake to thyself any graven image, &c. thou shaltnot bow down to them nor worship them.”» Know ye not,” said Campbell, addressing him,“ that the book of imagery is the hook of laudand praise, to put the people in remembrance ofbis holy saints that wrought for their salvation ”“ It ought to be the true preaching of the wordcf Pod,” replied Hamilton, “ that should put thepeople in remembrance of Christ.” “ You say,'’continued his accuser, “that it is but lost labour topiu> to Sunils, and especially to the blessed VirginMary, John, James, Peter, and Paulj to Lia the. r.1 | ,Bii t jV. A . %i'K UI Nle ii.Uor* unto Christ lor u»" “.I *ay >tuUI.Faui,” repfied Hatnilton, {1 that tliere i>< no Ms^liliator between God and us but Christ ^Tesus iiisii Son, and whoever he be that calls upon saints de-i tracts from the honour vyhich is due to Christi aloire ” You nave said,” continued Hamilton's; persecutor, ‘ that it is in vain Vo,sing ma,ss ortiirgies for the dead vyho, are in purgatory.?*• Brother,” b^ replied, “ I have not read in ther scriptures of any such place as purgatory, nor doI believe that there is any thing can say^ the souli of man but the blood of the Redeemer ; whichi, ransom is not to be found in any earthly foniiceremony, neither in mass, in matins, nor.dirgys,but in repentance of our sins, and faith in JesuiChrist-” ; “ My lords, now,” said Cfampbell', “.y#hear he denie* the institution of the holy church,and the authority of our holy father the Pope, yveBL need not therefore proceed any farther in our accu¬sations.” In this sentiment his bigottecj. perfectly coincided. His fortitude and calm,reso¬lution, his enlightened ideas on the subject of pje-Hgion, his clear exposition at onca of some, of theprincipal truths of ttie. gospel, and of some of theleading error* of the Roman church, shewed themhow dangerous an enemy they had t,o coptepdwith. .His judges, fully impressed with this opi¬nion, immediately condemned him to suffer death.Hamilton wa^ accordingly brought forth fromthe Abbey Kirk of St. Andrew’s to- the place de.—fined for his execution, yvhere a huge pile ofwood wherewith to burn him was already pre¬par'd. wi en at the stake, he was asked,If he would recant his heretical tenets? andit was hekl out to him that if ha did so ,hi«life riionld he spared , Tin* proposal he treatedwith the utmost contempt, saying, ‘ I wi,i no".6fleny tha eonfeiMou I have made from any fear othe torments which you may inflict on me. I infinitely prefer that my body should be burnt inthis fire for my acknowledgment of my trust iiChrist,- than that my soul should burn in un¬quenchable fire for denying my faith.” Wherin the act of being bound to the staka, Hamiltonagain exclaimed, “ I here, in presence of all as-;sembled, appeal to God against the judgmentwhich has bean passed upon me; and I summornyou. Sir Friar," he continued, addressing Camp¬bell, who was stafiding by, “before the awful’tribunal of God, within forty days, to answer be¬fore the supreme judge of all for the false testi¬mony which you have borne against m*.” The'martyr n©w addressed a short prayer to the Al¬mighty. So soon as he ceased speaking, his exe¬cutioners attempted to fire the pile, which was toconsume him, but it would not kindle ; after thelapse of a considerable length of time, and manyineffectual efforts, one Myrtown, a baker, whetherfrom motives of clemency or cruelty, hastily pro¬cured a quantity of dry straw, which readilyignating instantly set the whole in a blaze, and ina very short time reduced to ashes the mortalpart of the first martyr to the reformed church inScotland. It is said, that a sudden gust of windflung the flames, in which Hamilton was suffer¬ing, in the face of the treacherous friar who haddenounced him, scorching him severely, and burn¬ing away the front of his cowl. We are farthertold, that, at that instant, the wretched man sud¬denly struck with horror for the crime which hehad committed, in the bringing an innocent manto a violent and most painful death, became in¬stantly insane; and, from that moment until thetermination of his miserable existence, which, it is7related, took place precisely forty days aftervrard-s,i wandered about a forlorn and hideous lunatic.The severity exercised upon Hamilton had adirect contrary effect to that which was hoped forby his prosecutor. Previous to his martyrdom,he had successfully disseminated the opinion^i which he himself entertained on the importantI subject of religion; he had preached openly and(abroad, and was, on every occasion, in the dis-!: charge of this duty; attended by vast multitudes ;} who, delighted with his instructions, and capti-i i rated by his mild arid affable manner, so opposite:ij to the haughty bearing of the Romish clergy,i readily appreciated the great truths which lie di-ij.vulged, and became converts to his faith. TheI patience, therefore, and cairn resignation withwhich they saw their youthful guide and teacherIII meet the terrible fate to which he was doomed,ij had the effect only of rendering his memory morefij deab, and his tenets more popular;The consequence was; a general spirit of dis¬affection to the church, which her clergy endea¬voured to suppress by committing, from time, tdtime, some hapless victim to the llames. Thefirst of these, after Hamilton’s martyrdom, wasone Friar Forrest, who was condemned to beburnt as a heretic merely for hating said that“ Patrick Hamilton died a martyr.” Whilst hispersecutors were consulting about the place andmanner of the unhappy man’s execution, Johniiindsay, one of the bislsop’s attendants, who se¬cretly favoured the new doctrine, said, “ If yeWill burn anf more do if in a hollow cellar, forthe smoke of Master Patrick Hamilton hath in-fe'eted all those on whom it blew.” This signi¬ficant remark, however, had but little effect oirthose to whom it was addressed. They saw that3their power and authority was in danger; and, inithe darkest spirit of bigotry, they determined toseek safety by pursuing a course of bloody andjjrelentless persecution. Accordingly, soon afterifthe execution of Forrest, several persons accusedof heresy were summoned to Holyroodhouse, all ;of them, however, having the terrors of a violentand painful death too distinctly before their eyes,recanted, excepting Thomas Forrest, Vicar ofDollar, Norman Galloway, and David Straiton.These three, more resolute than the others, ob-1stinately maintained their opinions, and were, inconsequence, condemned to die.The priticlpal heresies with which Forrest wascharged were, That he had given back again tohis parishioners certain customary church dona¬tions, saying, “ he had no right to them.” Whenthis charge was preferred against the benevolentman, he simply replied, I gave them again tothose who had more occasion for them than Ihad.” An answer which, though breathing thepurest spirit of Christianity, produced no effect onthe haughty, avaricious, and bigotfed persecutorsto whom it was addressed. The next charge was.That he had tadglit his parishoners to say theirpater noster, the creed, and the ten command¬ments in English. To this he again replied,looking to his accuser, “ Brother, my people areso rude and barbarous that they understand notthe Latin tongue in which these things are written.I therefore deemed it my duty to make the wordsof their salvation intelligible to them, by present¬ing them Mth these words in their native lan¬guage.” Whilst repelling the third point of ac¬cusation. he was abruptly asked by his unrelentingaccuser, “ Where he found the statement# whichbe 'fvas then advancing?” “In the book which: •!)ijs in mj sleeve,'' replied the persceuted Onthis hjs accuser, starling to his feet, rudely pulledthe hook, which was the New Testamenr, out ofhis sleeve; and, holding it aloft, exu 11,1 Ugly ex-I claimed, p B; hold, he has that hook of heresy inrt his sleeve, which alone has created all the schismsf and disturbances in the cl urch."” “ Brother,”said Forrest, still maintaining the calm equani-; mity of teniper which was natural to him, *• Bio*ther,” he said, “ Gcid forgive you ; ye ought and-: should speak with more reverence of the evangellof Jesus Christ than to call p a book of heresy.” ’“ Heretic,’’ furiously exclaimed his accuser, “ dost1 thou not know that it is contrary to the canons ofmir church to have a Testa inert t in the Englishlanguage? Art thou ignorant that this alone issufficient guilt to bring thee to the stake ?” Forsuch crimes and sentiments as these were men,int this period, doomed to suffer death in one of itsill most terrible forms.To this brief aketfch of the martyrdom of Thomastj Forrest, we shall add an anecdote of the bishop of] jbunkeld, with which the former is connected.I The bishop, who was Forrest’s ordinary, havingi learnt that he was in the habit occasionally of in-l troducing heresies into his discourses, desired him(to forbear ; adding, that, it he persevered in tak¬ing such liberties, he would certainly draw downthe vengeance of the church upon fyis head ;” hut,” continued he, “•if you can find, a goodgospel, or a good epistle, that makes for the li¬berty of the holy church, teach that, and leavethe rest alone.’' To this orthodox piece of adyiceForrest answered, “ I have read both the newTestament and the old, and I never found an illepisile, er an ill gospel, in any of them.” “ Thatmay be,” replied the ignorant but good natured.i10bihliop, “ IhU for my pari, I thank God I harelived comfortably for many years, and never knewone word either of the old or new Testament. I..content me with my pontress (prayer book) andpontifical, (a book of ceremonies) and, if’you leavp,A'.ot these fantasies, you wiI) repent when you canrnot mend it."* To this .concluding remark Forrestreplied, in the true spiijt of a martyr, “ 1 thoughtit my duty to do as 1 did, and laid my acconjlf..vith any danger that might follow ”Victims to the embryo doctrines of the reforip-rd religion and ecclesiastical persecution began nowto follow each other with quick Succession. Je-..rome ^iksyi, a giey friar, and Thomas Kennedy,a young .man from Avr, not 18 years of age, wasaccused at .Glasgow of heresy. Kennedy, as was inatural to his years, oyeypome with terror at theprospect of the dreadf ul punishment w hich awaitedbim, was, in the hour of trial, disposed to recant,and to save his life by denying the points laid toiiis charge. When, however, lie beard the intrerpid answers of lius^cl, liis ponqianion in misfor¬tune, who scorned to shun danger by apostasy, hebecame calm and resolute. Throwing himself uprp.U his knees, he exclaimed in the tone and man-jicr of rapturous enthusiasm, “ Wonderfuj, OI.orh, is thy love and mercy to me, a miserablewretch, for even now I would have denied thee,and thy Son, tlie J.ord Jesus Christ, my only Sa¬viour Thou, by thing own hand, hasp pullgd ptefl)ack from the bottom of hell, and given pie to feeljnoie lieav^jaJy pejmfort, which hath removed theungodly fear that hefore oppressed my mind.iNow, 1 defy death,” lie added, addressing Jii,sjudges, “ do what you please, 1 praise God I an>ready.” Whilst the nrp was preparing in whichthese heroic victims of papal persecution were toiii#illuffer, Russel continued encouraging atid comfort-ng his young companion in martyrdom, who nowpoked boldly and proudly in the face of death.They both endured the torments to which theyrere subjected without uttering the slightest com¬plaint, or exhibiting by any sign the excruciatingIgonies which they must have felt.The next sufferer in the cause of religion, to(vhose fate any particular interest is attached, washe celebrated George Wishart, school-master atMontrose. This martyr, like Patrick Hamilton,uad spent some years abroad, it is believed at Ge¬neva, where he had imbibed the principal tenets ofidalvin. On his return from thence, he began to>reach in various parts of Scotland, and was everyIvhere received with the most cordial welcome,lis exertions in propagating the doctrine of Re-brmation, tended greatly to strengthen the popu¬larity which these doctrines had already attained,Hind which were daily gaining ground tnroughout:ihe whole kingdom in defiance of the mercilesssystem of persecution which the clergy had adopt¬ed to suppress them.Wishart, though extremely obnoxious to theclergy, continued for some time to escape theirVengeance. An opportunity however of seizingaim, for which they anxiously looked, at lengthoffered, and it was eagerly embraced. CardinalBeaton learnt, with a satisfaction which he did notAttempt to conceal, that Wisbart was at Ormiston,!>ithin six miles of St Andrews, and hastily com-nunicating the joyful tidings to the governor ofhe castle, he prevailed upon him, though extreme-y reluctant, to dispatch a party of men to appre¬hend him. The laird of Ormiston, at whose house,nnd under whose protection he was, stoutly refus-;d to deliver him up. On learning this, the Car-A i rfr.l ! rn t elf oi on horBeback, in tlie miiidle oflf1i« night, so eajrrr was he in pursuit of his prev,h'fiif atxtitnpan'ied by the governor, proceeded' UiOrniistor* botise, and again demanded that Wish-srt should be delivered up. Orrnlston, bonevf r,still refused, and bis dflisttiftnev woiVhf Imve ltt>fifedthe Cardinal but for the interference of the Ifarf;of Bo! liwell, 'v h\>, w it h friendly intent ions tow ardsVV idisrt, offVfed', as a heort'al party, to fake chargeof iiina; apd orr this understanding he was.put iii-their power. BofhwcJI nlmOst immediatelyyfter permitted himself to be prevailed upon todeliver his charge info the barters of the Cardinal,fipon promises which were neve r me&nt to he kept,,e>f fair''dealing arut tnihf tfratfrsenf. Beaton, nowin possession of l)is vicfinV, returned triumphantly'fo-St Andrews. On his arrival, he instantly sent'Wisbfirt to a loathsome dungeon, in a gloomvhtiilflitig called the Sea }'otver, where he remainedconfined for eight'weeks. At the expiry of'that{Seriod he wTas brought to trial before a council,’consisting of bishops, abbots; priors, grey andblack friars and canon1:, and monks'of all sorts,’with the sanguirraty oafcTnial ait the head. Somedavs befpre thitt appointed'for Wishart’s trial, theCardinal,’'as' if in fjiotkery of! iifstke and legalIprms, sent a smtirnonrs-fo fits dungeon eemmaud-:1ig his" appearance before the council. Wishart,stYuck with tl e absnidity of this proceeding’, a'd-d'Yessing’.himself to the messenger, said, “ W haf ioccasion has my lord Cardinal to summon me toartswer for doefrines openly before him by whomram bound in irons, so that he can compel me toehmpear when he tliinks fit. It is right,” he add,rd ironically, “ that ye keep tip bid lorms and ce¬remonies.”f‘ The trial of Wiiliart, if that can be called «4mtrial where a man is judged by his enemies, e.wdthose of the most bigot ted and merciless kind, wasconducted, thdugh with little justice, with a vastdeal of ceremony, with the view of impressing thebeholders with awe, and of shrouding in splendidfnniis and solemn etiquette the presence of iniqui¬ty and malice.On the morning of the trial the Cardinal’s menat arms were ordered to attend in their most war¬like array, armed with spears, and clothed in ar¬mour. They escorted the bishops and priestswho went in procession to the Abbey Church, theplace appointed for Wish art’s trial. When thesedignitaries had taken their places, Wishart was; sent for, and conveyed to the church by the Cap-i tain of the Castle in which he had laeli confined., As he entered the door, a poor decrepid old mao« solicited him for alms. Wishart paused a moment,1 flung him his purse, and passed on. The pro-iceedings of the council were opened by a long 'ser¬mon from John Windram, dean of St. Andrews;who, amongst other tilings, enforetd the necessityiji|of putting ( i" n heretics wulh the “sword of the| spirit that they ought not to be permitted toiUrve, but should be delivered over when ever theymere found to the arm of the civil law. WhenliW indram bad concluded, a miscreant of the nameif John Lather stood forward, and read from anig roll the different paints of accusation againutVishart. When these were ended, he droppedpon his knem, addressed a short and silent’raver to the Almighty, then rising be modestlyut firmly entered in the discussion of his eloc-rines, and of the charges brought against him ; arivilege which his judges were at first for deny-■ ;g him, saying amongst themselves, “ If we givetiin leave to pnach, he is so exercised, ia theI14•crlptures, and so gifted with speech, that he willpersuade the people to his opinion.” Wishort, onhearing these remarks, eraved that he might betried by a competent and impartial judge. Onsaying this, Lather, his accuser, roared out at theutmost stretch of his voice, “ Is not my lordcardinal second person of Scotland, chancellorthereof, archbishop of St. Andrew’s, bishop ofMenapoire in France, commendator of Arbroath,legatus natus, &c. is not he,” he s^id in conclud¬ing this pompous dttail of his patron’s titles, “asufficient judge for you r” Wishart calmly re¬plied, “ 1 refuse not, my lord cardinal; but I de¬sire the word of God to be my judge, and thetemporal estate, and some of your lordship’s, myauditors'; because I am here my lord cardinal'sprisoner, who is on this account no ways fit to bemy judge ” For this language alone, which wascalled seditions and criminal by the minions ofthe cardinal, Wi.shart would have been instantlysentenced to death, had it not been for the inter¬ference of certain persons present, who represent¬ed that it might bo dangerous to put him to deathwithout at least the appearance of a trial. Inconsequence of this suggestion he was. at lengthpermitted to proceed in his defence.In this he neither made any concessions fromfear, nor denied any of the principles he inculca¬ted from inability to defend them ; but, on thecontrary, he calmly and dispassionately encount¬ered each point of accusation if founded on truth,(for many of them were false,) exhibiting in alight which would have carried conviction to allbut his judges of the reasonableness and sound¬ness of his religious sentiments. The ability andresolution with which Wishart conducted himself f|in place of exciting the commiseration and respect1*of Iiis peFsecutors, only strengthened their obdu-,ration, and confirmed his own fate. He was con¬demned to die the death ef a heretic. When sen¬tence of death was passed on Mr Wishsrt, he was'tarried hack to the chamber which he had occu-linied previous to his trial.At the hour of noon, the Captain of the Castle,ind the gentlemen w ho wrere him, going to dinnerto the Captain’* room, the latter invited MrW'ishart to join them if he felt disposed to eat.With much good will,’ replied Wisfiart, “ for1 am better content jfo eat with you this day than• ver I was in my life, bepause I know you to begood, godly, and honest men.” When they ap¬proached the table he added, ‘f I request that youill sit down, and that there may be silence in theimuse until I ask a blessing on this meat, whichve shall eat as brothers in Christ, and thereafter1 will take my leave of you ” The table beingmow covered, and wine and bread placed on it,Vishart began Ids exhortatipn. When he con-nluded. he broke a little bread, took a glass oftiivine, handed another to the captain, and there-ilfter to each of the company present, blessing itIn the name of the Father, the Son, and of theidoly Ghost. When dipner was ended, Wishart,illfter delivering anothey short exhortation, retiredo h;x chamber, where he continued in contempla¬tion and prayer until the cardinal and bishopstvere ready to witness his execution.Ij He was now waited upon by two executioners,ne one bringing along with him a coat of buck-llun, and the other several small bags of gunpow-irr. Having put the buckram poat upon Mrn’i.shay.t, and disposed the bags of powder arounds person in such a manner as was best calculatedj1 annoy him when they should be exploded, he10wps cfn«’uc(etl to the puter chamber of tb? cap¬tain of the «i!r.r<!. wh*<re he was kept until tliepreparations or, liis tx'Ciition were complet'd.lJft!’t of theip preparations consisted in loading thesneat guns with which the castle of St. Andrew'swas guarded, and placing cushions and cloths fort !>e •'ccorrinid'iiatFoo of the cardinal and bishops ontfio iops of the wads which overlooked the placeappointed for Mr YYisljarfs execution. Theel*riu n and n en at arms, belonging to the(Onity prelate's establishmeht, were also ordered'0 put on their armour, and surround the scaffold.fcv»rv M ing bring ready, the officers and execu¬tioners, »Vf rather tormentors, of whopi there wereseveral, now procaeded to the apartment occupiedl>y \V ishnrt, w hom they led forth in the midst of■t noisy flourish of trumpets, and other warlikeinstruments. When brought to the scaffold, towhich he was immediately boundWith strong iron |din ins, Jie rfesired fibertv to address a short prayerto that (jreat ISdug into whose presence he wasabout to appear. Having concluded bis devo¬tions. the pile on which he was to suffer was fired ;the tlam«s, dtirng their progress, igniting thebags of powder hung around the person of theryi<era!>l«' sufferer, was heard at. short interval*exploding with n great noise, and materially in¬creasing the agonies of the flying martyr. The(.aptain of the guard exhorting him to remember(■sod. and ask forgiveness of his sins ;—he replied,tits calmly and collectedly as if the flames whichwere rapidly consuming him had been playing,harmlessly around his bmhs, “Captain, God for-’give yon man who is revelling in inch splendour,anti so much at ease on yonder wall, but within avery short time be shall he an object of moredugvptt than he i* now (if envy." When he baIVpronounceU this prophetic sentence,—lor the car.dinal in about three months afterwards was as¬sassinated in his own castle, and his body hung overthe very wall from which he had witnessed theij martyrdom of Mr Wishart,—a rope which had1 been previously fastened around his neck, was sud¬denly drawn so tight as to disable him from furtheri speech. The fire already blazing furiously a-i round him, was now also enlarged by the addj-l tion of more fuel, and its .vehemence increasedi by the executioners stirring it up with their haj-‘it berts. In a few minutes more the tragedy wascompleted. , .We shall add but one or twq more, thoughthere were several besides, to this list of those whoperished in the cause of religion previous to theI Jleformation. The sufferers to whom we allucjewere a jioor woman of the name of St^rk, will) heriiiliusband, who lived at Perth, Adam Wallace, an,dPI Walter Mylne, an old man upwards of 80 yearsiliof age. , • , . i , . . , ,i The former was apprehended for refusing tonpray to the Virgin Mary when she was in labour,:.r IHsaying, “ That she would only pray to (iod in theKiname of Jesus Christ.” Her husband was eoh-’,>demncd at the same time for having behaved dis-igrcspcctfully to an image of St Francis. Thisijniiserable pair requested, as a last faviAi/, that theyknight be permitted to die together; but, as the•modes of their execution were different, the \eom£ning condemned to be drowned, and the husbando be hanged, the request was nkt complied with.Iilshe was, however, allowed tf):accompany her. bus-’ >and to the place of execution. While on .tinswnelancholy journey, she continued to exhort him|o patience and constancy for the cause of Christ;ind, at the instsmt of parting from him', said,IS4< Husband, be glad, we have lived together manyjoyful days, and this day we ought to esteem themost joyful of all, because now we shall have hap-jpiness for ever. Therefore I will not bid yougood night, for we shall shortly meet in the king-dom of heaven.”After th£ execution of the husband the womanWas taken to a jiool of water not far distant, whenhaving commended her children to the charity of ‘her neighbours^ and giving a little babe who was jat her breiast to a nurse, she died with a fortitudeand resignation worthy' of the cause for which shesuffered-.The next who Suffered in the cause of the Re¬formed doctrines was Adam Wallace, who wasburned upon the Castle Hill of Edinburgh..!Among several other things he was accused of dehying purgatorv,—maintaining that prayers madeto the saints and fo^ the dead were superstitious,—calling the mass an idolatrous service, and af¬firming that the bread and Wine in the sacrament;after the words of consecration remained bread and iwine. He was also accused of usurping the office iof a preacher, having no lawful calling theretoHis answer to this charge, like that of severaothers in similar circumstances, was extremelyaffecting. “ I n'ever thought myself," he saicli!“ worthy of so excellent a vocation as the caliinafof a preacher, nor did I ever presume to preachijIn some private places, it is irue," he continued!“ I have read a part of the Scriptures at timesland made a short exhortation thereon-, to thos[that would hear me.” It was replied, that hought not to have meddled with the scripture!“ I esteemed it,’’ he answered, “the duty of overjChristian to seek the knowledge of God’s wonand the assuranca of his oWn salvation* which v10not to be found but in the scriptures.” One of hishaughty judges now asked, “ What then shall beleft to the bishops and churchmen to do if everyman shall become a babbler upon the -Bible ?”Wallace replied, “ It becomes you to speak morereverently of God and of his blessed word, thoughyou and I, and five thousand more, would readi the Bible and confer together upon it, yet we1 would leave more to the bishops to do than eithei1they will or can do ; for we leave to them thepreaching of the gospel of Christ, and the feedingliof the flock which he hath redeemed by his own'{blood, which is burden heavy enough ; neither donwe them any wrong in working out our own sal-i.Vation.” As a natural consequence of such an in-! vestigation as this in these days, Wallace was con¬demned to death. The superintendence of thd.execution was committed to the Lord Provost,iwho would not permit him to address the people.iHe died with all the fortitude and resignation be-*icoming a martyr to the sacred truths of religion.1 Mylne was apprehended by Sir Hugh Currievmd Sir George Strachan, emissaries of the bishopf St. Andrews, while warming himself by the firen a poor man's house in Dysart, and while in thext of instructing his hostess in her dirty towardsr children in bringing them up in the fear ofi-od. He was conveyed to St. Andrews, and en-ed into the presence of the bishops ; who losttime in convening a number of abbots andflher churchmen in the abbey church, which wasmerally made the scene of such proceedings, inder to his trial. The council having assembled,e Mailman, a friar, agreeably to the usual prac-*i ie on these occasions, opened the business of this«:lesiastical court by a sermon, in which he euio-ted the Catholic church, anathematized its ene*soaiies, ami invoked in a special luannev the ven¬geance of heaven on heretics ; whom, by 4 miser¬able portion of scripture, he represented as delestable in the sight both of God and man. Thewhole discussion was wound up with particular Ireflexion on the prisoners, and the enjoining hisimmediate punishment. This concluded, theyproceeded, to interrogate him. Why,” suit;Andrew Oljphant, his accuser, did ye visit vcrjous houses, treating and seducing the people bheresy, and , teaching them charms and enchantmeats, to withhold,them from GodVservice !”did not so,” replied Mylne, “ I held no man fronthe church of God, nor from God’s service, byhave rather allured them thereto with all thmeans in my power,” “ But was ye not a priest,again said Oiiohant, “ anil why hast thou .left tl;charge^?” “ I was,” replied the poor ni.an, •“ byit was held in such contempt that I could not eara subsistence by it. I served the cure of Lune: 1twenty years, and I believe no man in that pari$will say aught of me, but that I lived as a tre 1Christian ought to do. My Lord InneSmeal 1himself will bear witness that he never heard nteach erroneous doctrines.” “ Then why did ’|leave -your parish?” continued his accuser. “ lijcause,’’ he answered, “ as well <ts others, werCompelled to, fly to avoid the vengeance of tcruel cardinal, (Beaton) who sought our lives fpreaching the word of God. From this causeam driven to the necessity of wandering about Ia subsistence; but yet miserable and depend*as I ani, I cannot bear cursing and swearing, aml ,blasphemution of the word of God. even m •«bouse in which I seek food and shelter, whinreproving it and exhorting to better conduct,SIlit was thus you found me enoa^cd vvlit?d youseized upon me, and brought me here. ’When this poor and inoffensive man was asked,if he would acknowledge hits errors, and save liislife by a public recantation, he replied, in a smu-!ar spirit of heroism with those vvjio had gonetefore him in the path of ntartyrdpvn.—•• Tnatvill I not. J am a poor servant of toon’s, oftentretiring to my bed without food or worldly cnm-brts of any kind, \et I desire do more wealth onarth, for I trust to mefet reward In lieaven ;to with me therefore as ye think best; I will pa¬tiently abide your judgment, idi:,” ht affeetniglydded, »• better it were if your lordshijis gave nuiDine little thing to.relieve the wants of my pooflife and children who are like to perish for want ;Sfor myself 1 care not how soon 1 die.” Neithere extreme age of this venerable and worthy oldnan, nor his poverty, nor the pathetic language, Inich he delivered, produced the slightest effectU his obdurate and bigotted judgtis, wiiu iuime-•utely condemned bun to death.IThe principles of reform, however.diftd now bo¬rne so general, and had taken such deep r<><>T<’;it the sentences (if the ecciestasiieal Wmi ts werei greater difficulty, and ifti.ie tintidiy carriedd execution than at an earlier period. In theance of Mylne, the bishop of St Aiulrewslouldno one for some time wiio would undertake toy the sentence passed upon that poor man in-ffect. In the dilemma he sent for the piovostt Andrews, who was also steward of Ins vega-for the time, and desired him to execute I beience of the court on Mylne. The provostiltiy replied, ‘‘ That will 1 not, my lord ; Ihave no share in persecuting the servant ofAny duty pertaining to my bdiee, which 1may lawfully and tonsclfentiously pcrfomi, f amready to execute at your tommand, but I will notmeddle with that inndcent man, who is one ofGod’s servants, and who preaches his word.”—-“ Provost,replied the mortified prelate, “ youknow you are my judge, and steward of my rega-litie, and bUght to punish all who transgress with¬in my hounds.”—“ It is irue,” replied the Provost“and if your loidships pleases, I will take hirrjand have him tried by a lawful assize of his peersibut not otherwise shall I meddle with him;” Mwretch named Somerville was at length found wbJundertook the office of executioner; but the dillAcuities of the unhappy man’s persecutors did iiciterminate here. Such was the sympathy whicl'his fate excited in St Andrew's, that none in tlmtown would either sell or lend a single rope tibind him to the stake, every one hiding whatevcihe possessed of that article. Determined to carrltheir point, the ropes of the bishop’s pavilion weiiemployed, and at length the murder of the uhfoltunate man was effected.When this poor innocent old man was brouglto the stake, he was stripped of his outermclclothes, and stuffed all round with powder; ailjin this condition was placed upon the scaffoll-His brutal executioners, regardless of hufnaoatjjand unaffected by his grey hairs and fetter]limbs, calling out to him in mockery to recallI wonder,’’ he patiently replied to these taunt ' ,'“ that ye Would thus heap condemnation on ycljown heads, by putting innocent men to a cr i|death, without either the fear or love of God Bman before your eyes. As for me,” he afFectin1jjadded, “ my dying now is of little consequentfor I am fourscore and. two years, and hadtherefore in the course of nature much Ion/125time to live. But mark wlmt I say, Many andpowerful enemies shall arise to you front the ashesof my bones, who shall scatter you over the face|of the earth; nor shall the best of you die soworthy a death as that which ! am about to suffer.St trust in God,” he Concluded, “ I shall be the■last in Scotland who shall perish in this cause.”1 With these words he exhorted the people to prayfor him, then recommending iiis soul to his God*land offering the sacrifice of his life for his sake, heprepared himself to his fate.With the death of this poor old man may besaid to have terminated the reign of papal perse-jcution in Scotland. The reformed doctrines had‘Idready sapped the foundations of the CatholicIlmrch, and the tottering superstructure was abouto tumble about the ears of its architects Thejross immorality of the Catholic clergy,—theirtverweening ambition and insolence,—their enor-*i!jaous wealth, which left nearly all in poverty butiiemselves, accumulated by (rand ami extortion,—leir engrossing avarice which, not contented withearly two-thirds of the wealth of the riches of theingdom, would have had the whole : These con->derations, added to the horror which their crueltyt the cases we have just related, besides manyadiers, had inspired, hastened on that revolution _f! the church, which purer and more rational vievChristianity was gradually effecting. In Scot-l:nd the public mitid had, for som* years previous(that great event, been prepared for some mightyange in matters of religion ; and this predispo-ion was in no small degree owing to the writingsSir David Lindsay of the TMount, who wrotei •'ral dramatic sketches in which the CatholicB-rgy were represented in the most ludicrousjtht: their sensuality, their hypocrisy, and theirIVidulenCe, were the constant tlieme of his song,and the iu ver-1'ailiug subjects of his satires and hiswit.We have now brought our brief narrative to a jijelose. The spirit of reformation had now spread ?!far and wide.—every day the popular ferment in- Icreased. It iVas in vairt that the terrified 'leaders Iof the church summoned councils, enacted laws, I,and denounced punishnieiit against all those who *|favoured, tlie refbrtrled duclriljes. Every hour in- |creased their own vi’eakntih-, and added to the Ijstrength of their etiernt^s; tinti^at length, the#l)low was struck.— 1’opery fell-—and the purelchurch of God, simple but niajestic, arose. JohnKnox, a man singularly adapted to the times in>!which he lived, now appeared upoti the field ; and,iby b is bold and fearless beating, completed the[\vork which less talented atit less courageous men!had begun.' d:i hisjetunl fjoul Geneva, whitlufouie years before he had heed compelled to ilyjto avoid tiie fury of cardinal Beaton,, this cele-jbratpd reformer hastened to Perth, (tlteu callerSt Johnstdue) where a great mnnher of die CpnJgregation, as the favourers of the ieformatioi|then called themselves, had assembled. He tinrpreached, to a numerous and attentive audiencea most animated amj impressive sermon, pin tictlarly inculcating how inconsistent tne worship «images ivas with the woi\l of God.Tor a more Juti sitid variiemar. account of ihe R<formation tux the LIFT Of JOHS A’&'Q.AU r.