ItTHEWitty and' EntertainingEXPLOITSOFxEORGE BUCHANAN,Commonly calledTHE KINGS FOOL.STIRLING :PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACNIE,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.JiliT. I.viAKAtioua rroaoa■' t*,'joou «oT/ii5f akt/■ THf' Witty and Entertaining| EXPLOITS•; OFI fiid ii.if'slP- J^^H George Buchanan.■m v*w<» nut T!W :•'.!» i>-• ■ !-j f..    „MR GEORGE BUCHANAN yvas a ScoUn. anifePt “flAj t!ioi>gIj of mean parentage, matie great pro-iijress in learning. As for ^is uatiersvaivling and readyi.\k, Iteiexceiled all area, then alive in that age, that,■ver proposed questions to him. He was servant orjeacher to King James \ f. as las private couisseiio;,Imt publicly he acted as fool.| It happened, one day tliat a young airy nobie.nanrent into the King’s garden, to poll a flower fpr a.oung lady he fancied. Geerge followed at a distance;•a when the young man found a flower to his pleasure,e would not pull it, but to find it again without fur-ber searching, be covered it with his hat and wentwa for his sweetheart. No sooner was be gone, butp goes George, lifts the hat, pul! .tiie flower, thenases himself on the spot, and covers it with the hatigain, and away he goes. Sport after the youngientleman returned, leading his sweetheart to puif tlwt(rwer below the liat; but as soon as he lifted ii;e”hatid saw what was below it, he iooked like a fool; and(<e lady flying in a passion, sets off, and world'never*.■|Vr; : .  ; 4countenance him any more. Tiie young gentlemanbeing sadly vexed at tins affront given him by George,gent him a challenge to fight him, appointing dav andplace where they were to n.iet. Being to fight omhorseback, George gets an old stiff horse, and forharneSiing covers him shoot with blown bladders,|jwith small stones in each, without either sword or ! (spear ; away to the field he goes, where the duel wasappointed. So, when George saw his enemy coming .against him, all in glittering armour, armed with sword,and spear, he made up to him with all the speed hishorse could carry him when the small stones made;such a rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geld-:ing would not stand the battle, but ran away and jthrew his master to the ground, which caused all the ispectators to laugh and say the gentleman was more ifool than George. The gentleman being still more,enraged at this second affront, he would fight with IGeorge on foot} but his friends persuaded him that itwould be no honour for him to fight and kill the King’sfool, and far less to be killed by the fool; so theywere, advised both to agree. But the gentleman would itry another exploit with George, for to haveiteaidhe |,;was still the cleverest man, viz. To hold him a jump- ,ing bout publicly, the next day thereafter. With all Lmy heart, says George, and we will end in and aboutwhere we begaa : they not knowing his meaning inthis. The place and hour being set where they wereto meet next morning, George in the night time,caused a deep pit to he made, and the earth of it car¬ried away; then filled it up with dung from a privy, ,and covered it over with green turf, that it ihigfit notbe known by the other ground. So, according to pro* riv.ise they both met in the morning against the ap- {,pointed time. Now George being the oldest man, andbv them counted the greatest fool, the young spark >.permitted him to jump first, which he, according to5ordev did ; and jUujpcd within a foot of ti)B placewhere the ground wau falsified. The young man see-,ing this made bis performance with great airs, and althis might, so that he jumped a foot over George, andup to his oxters in clean dungj whereat the wholeis multitude of spectators, cried out with loud huzzas and;; laughter. Now, says George, I told you we wouldend in and about where we began, and that is in cleanfij dirt. 7SOn a time after this, the king and his court weregoing into the country, and they w'ould have Gaergeto ride before them in the fool’s dress; whereunto heI‘i seemed unwilling, but it was the king’s pleasure. Soi George was mounted upon an old horse, with the heels|i hanging down, and a palmer coat, patched over withii pictures of divers kinds. George rode before them11 in this posture, which caused great laughter and diver-o sion, until they came to an inn, where they alightedn to dine j and in the time they were at dinner, George8went into the stables, and with a knife cut all theirhorses’ chafts, not. sore, but so as tiiey might bleed.Now, as soon as dinner was over, and they mountedtheir horses again, George riding before them as u-isual, in his palmer eoat and old boots, they began tomake their game of him •, then George turning aboutmsuddenly clapped his hands with a loud laughter, theKing asked him what made him laugh so ? Laugh,jsays George, how can I but laugh when horses can-li^not hold their peace ? O my sovereign, says he, don’tou see how your horses have rent their chafts .augh-ng at my old boots! Then every man looking at hhorse’s chafts, they were all in rage against Geerge.Che King caused George to dismount directly, andbarged him never to let him see his face on Englishround. Now, Geerge knowing that nothing conlctreconcile the King at this time, he came away ta6Scotland, and caused make him a pair of great boots,and put a Quantity of Scotch earth to each of them,and away he goes for London, to see the King oncemore. He hearing the King and his court were topass through a country village, George places himselfjn an old window, and sets up his bare a—e to theKing and his court as they passed. The King beinggreatly amazed to see such an unusual honour done tohim, was curious to know the performer: So he cal¬led unto him, desiring him to come down ; and find¬ing it to be George, Sir, s*ys the King, did I notcharge you never to let me see your face again True,my sovereign, says George for which cause I let yousee’my arse. , But, says tue King, you was never* tocome on English ground again. Neither I did, saysGeorge, pulling off his boots before the King, beholdmy sovereign, its*all Scotch earth I stand upon. TheKing and his court being greatly diverted with thismerry joke, George was again admitted to the King’sfaro nr.After this, there arose a debate betwixt tbs Kingand the Queen about votes in parliament} as the Kingbad two votes, the Queen would have one, and wouldreeds be a Parliamenter, or no peace without prefer-ment. This matter was committed to George by theKing. So it was agreed irr Parliament that the Queen;should be admitted for a day. Accordingly she catne,sind was received with all the/honour and congratula^tions that was due and becoming her high station : but;before any matter of consequence was brought to theUeard, George seated himself hard by the Queen’sseat: all being silent, be rose up very’ quickly, liftedone of his legs, and let. a loud fart, which set thewhole house a-laughing; whereat the Queen wasgreatly offended, and said, Go, take the rogue aitbrag him. To which, George answered, A finei Parliamenter indeed ! to hkng the man for 3 sinkss: infirmity, and that’s a fart. *The Queen enrag'd atthe affront put on her first appearance in Parliament,: .tveui off in a passion, and would never countenancei {them more. . But yet, to be revenged on'George, she.Itwcuid nearer give f£e King rest . till lie deliveredi {George into her hands, that he might he punished atilier pleasure j which the King accordingly command¬ed to be done, knowing that George wxuld rescuehimself by some intrigue or other. No sooner was hedelivered into iier hands, hut she and her maids ofihonour pronounced his doom, which was as iciiows:‘‘ As he had affronted the Queen among so great anequipage, who ought to he honoured in chief abovejail women in the nation, that he should be stoned ie•death by the hands of women.’’ Now, the time beingIcome that he was to die, according to their appoint-jiment, he was taken into a park, where a great num¬ber of women was waiting for him, with their apronsfull of stones, to fall upon him, and put him to death,(according to the Queen's appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.“ Here’s a female band with bags of stones,To kill a man for rumple groans .I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts.Could 1 convert my farts to rifts ?Since I theVirst for farting die.Close up the place from whence they fly.To commit my crime, 1 think, ye’il scarce,If once you do cork up your arse.And now since women stones do carry,Men need not in this world tarry.Judge if such women be chaste complete,With forty stones between their feet:But since ’tis so you will come on,The greatest whore throw the first stone.”W hen ha ended ivitli these words,. ' The greatest^whore throw ti;e first stone,^ every one pot it to an4Ovher to cast the first stone ; hut knovv,n<> they wouldattain the character of a whore for so doing, they allrelived till the dying hour was past, and then he tookl Ia protest aga.nst t!iem, and by that means-gained hiklife. After this he was admit- d to the Qusen's fn-,vour and presence, and attended the court as formerly.1About this time, the French King, in order to picka quarrel with the court of Britain, sent a letter to'the King, desiring it to be read before the Parlia¬ment : ami the writing'was as follows : ‘ Will I come ? IWill f come?—Will I come? This letter beingread befor* the King and his courtiers, they all con¬cluded -that the French King designed to invadeEngland : Therefore, they ordered an answer to bewrote, upbraiding him With the bread) of peace, and’putting him in mind of the last treaty. The answerbeing read over before the King and his nobles, theyall agreed that it should be sent oil. But, Georgesmiling and shaking his head, said,Many men, many minds ;Who knows what he designs ?They then asked George wh.at he thought theFrench King meant by sue!) a letter ? To which heanswered, I suppose he wants an invitation to comeover and dine with you, and then return in a friendlymanner, hut yen are going- to cb?*-ge him with abread) of peace, before he has given any signal ot of¬fence.— His letter is indeed dark and mystical, butsend him an answer according to bis question. Now,George being ordered to write the answer, it was asfollows, ‘ And ye come—And ye come—And yecome.’ This being sent to the French K’pg, he ac-t mired it beyond expression, saying, It Has more11 valiant and daring than lie expected. So the enmityhe intended was extir.guised and turned intolove.Scot-It happened once that a malignant party ini iland sent up a great spokesman to the King and Par-p|fianieht, for seducing of the church : George kesr-ng of his coming went away and met him on theirbridge, and the salutation that he gave him was, theridge !utting off his head, aval throwing it over the btie then run to the King with all his might, and feltd.Jon./ down before him, pleading most heartily for a pare■ br without it lie was a dead man. The King mostleriously asked him what he bad done, now ? To whichle answered, lie had only thrown the Scots bishop'slat over the bridge ; which m*de the king to laugh,o hear him ask pardon for such a small fault. But. fe had no sooner got the pardon sealed by the King,: ban he said, Indeed, my Sovereign, I threw his hatj liver the bridge, but his head was in it. Geordy,cJjecrdy, says the king, thou wilt never give over tillr jbou be hurgedO■V A nobleman in England agreeuyvlth the King, how0 put a trick upon George, to try his manly courage: n sending him to a certain place for a bag of money.i uKt his way home through St. James’ park, they caus-« d a sturdy fellow attack him on the way and takeire money from him. The fellow being aimed with1 word and pistol, came up briskly and attacked.George with these words. You, Sir, deliver what•money you have, or you are a dead man. To which,; George answered, Sir, I have some, indeed, but 'tis: ot my own, and therefore do not like to part with it;evertheless being determined as you seem to be, to: xchange blows for it, pray do me the favour to fireis ’our pistol through the flap of my coat, that the owners' 10 vmay see I have been in danger of ipy life before Iparted with it: which he accordingly did. No soonerii-ad he fired the pistol, than George whips out hishanger from below his coat, and with one stroke cut Loff the fellow’s right hand, wherein he held the sword,se that both sword and hand fell to the ground 5 butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it to the King.No sooner did he come before them, but they askedhim, saying. Well, George, did you see any body totrouble you by the way ? None, said he, but one fel¬low, who was going to take th§ money from me ; butI made him give me his hand he would not do thelike again. You did ? says the fellow’s master. Yes,I did, says George, let work bear witness, throw¬ing down the fellow’s hand on the table before themail.■ ; -r I.' <gNow., this last exploit of George’s caused many ofthe English to hate him ; and among the rest a youngnobleman fell a joking with George, saying, lee wouldbe a famous champion for Scotland as Sir WilliamWallace was. Aye, aye, say* George, Wallace was,a brave man in his time. True indeed, says the young 1,nobleman, but when he came to London, we did himall manner of justice •, and, for honour of the Scots, iwe have his effigy in our shit-houses to this very day. ||And do you not know the reason of that, says George.y hNo, I don’t, says he. Well. '’11 tell you, said George, jsHe was such a terror to Englishmen, when he was jjalive, that the sijit of his picture yet makes them be-1shit themselves. The English took this answer as a jjgreat affront, and forthwith caused Wallace s pictureto be taken out of all their shit-houses. |jGeorge happened one time to be in company with,■ a bishop, and so they began to education, where-in he blanked the bishop so remarkably, that t.n11, tyshop himself owied he was worsted,—-Then one ofi the.company addressed George with these word!;a Thou Scot should not have left thy country. Borwhat reason, says George. Because thou hast carriedall the wisdom that is in it hither with thee. No, no,st says George, the shepherds in Scotland will dispute:iwith any bishop in London, and exceed them very far(in education. The bishop took this as an affront,liandseverel noblemen affirmed it to he as the Scots ibad said: Beats were laid on each side, and three of; the bishops were chosen and sent away to Scotland,i to dispute it with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others, who where to bear witness of what they( should hear pass between them. Now, George know-■ ing which way they went, immediately took anotheriroad, and was in Scotland before them. He then. imade acquaintance with a shepherd on the border,whose pasture lay by the road side where the bishopswere to pass ; and there he mounted himself in a shep¬herd’s dress; and when be saw the bishops appear,jhe conveyed his flock to the road-side, and fell a§|cbaating at a Latin ballad. When the bishops camei tup to George, one of them asked him, in French,Sijwhat o’clock it was ? To which he answefed, in Heb-l/:rew, It is directly about the time of the day it wasyesterday at this time. Another atked him in Girek,1'lWhat coutryman he was? To which, he answered,i in Flemish, If you knew that, you wouldne as wisei :ias myself. A third asked him in Dutch, Where wasi (you educate? To which he answered in Gaelic,iltlerding my sheep between this and Locbaber. Thisr'ithey desired him to explain in English, which he im-Hnediately did. Now, says one of them, v;e need pro->! :ee(l no further. What, says George, are you but-i! fliers? I H sell you a few sheep. To this they madeio answer, but went away shamefully, saying, theyi believed the Scots had been through all the nations12in the world for their education, or the devil hadtaught them. Now when George had ended this dis¬pute with the bishops, he stripped off his shepherd'sdress and up through England he goes, with all thehaste imaginable, so that he arrived at the place fromwhence they set out, three days before the judges,and went every day asking if they were come, so thathe might not be suspected. As soon as they arrived,»H that Were concerned in the dispute and many more,came crowding in to hear what news from the Scottishshepherds, aad to know what was done. No soonerhad,the three gentlemen declared what had past be- ,tween the bishops and the shepherds, whom they foundon the Scots border, but the old bishop made answer,And think you, said, he, that a shepherd could answerThese questions ?, It has been none else but the devil,for the Scats ministers themselves could not do it.they are but ignorant of such matters, a parcel ofht. aid less. boys. Then George thought it was time totake speech in hand. Well, my Lord Bishop, saysGeorge, you call them a parcel of ignorant beardlesshoys,— You bavi a- great long heard yourself, and ifgtiUjc. was measured by beards, you bishops and the'gyats wcultl have it all, and that will be quite averseto Scripture. What, says the bishop, are you a Scot?'Yes, says George, i am u Scot. Well, say. the bish¬op, and what is the difference between a Scot and asot ? Nothing at present, says George, but thebreadth of the table ; there being a table betwixt the :biihep and George. So the bishop went off in a highpassion, wlyile the whole multitude were like to splittheir jaws with laughter.About this time there was an act of Parliament forthe benefit of murderders, that any person who com¬mitted murder, if tbey forfeited five hundred merks, twhich went under the name of KIN-BOOT, because13so much of this fine went to the murdered person’snearest relations, as the price of blood, the murderer; got a remit. Now, George knowing this to be con-s i trary to Moses’ law, was grieved very much to seei so many pardons sealed with the King’s hand for11 murder, almost one every week, it being so usual for: i the King to subscribe them,, that he would not read11 them, nor inquire what they were j for which causei! George writes a wright to the crown, and sent it to! the King to he subscribed, which he actually did, andj never looking what it was, returned it to George.. 'No sooner had he received it, but he goes to the King,: 'and told him it was not time for him to be sitting: there : whereat the King greatly amazed, started up •,■ itiien George, in a great haste set himself down in the. King’s chair, forthwith, declaring himself to he King,t isaying, You who was king must he my fool, for I am' (now the wisest man. The king was greatly offended! at this, until George shewed him the sea! and sub¬scription.—lint from that day forth, the king knewi Iwhat he subscribed.I The next pardon that came to be sealed by theHKing, was to a gentleman who had killed two mentlpefore, and had gclten pardons for them by money.I'This being the third, the king was very silent in look¬ing over it; George standing by, asked what he wasWjoiog to seal now ? To which he answered, it is a re¬mit for a man who has killed three men at sundryi limes, I gave him two remits before. O ! says George,i ae has killed hut one man. And who killed the o-i )her two ? says the king. You did, says George ; foe' f you had given him justice when he killed the first,1 ie had killed no more. When the king beard thesetr.Tords, he threw down the pen, and declared that suchm act to save a murderer should be null ever after■>y him.14One time George having no money, he goes awayand gets a pick and spade, and then falls a digging ata corner of the king’s palace; which the king per¬ceiving from hi# window, calls out what was hewanting there? Are you going to undermine rayhouse and make it fall ? No, my sovereign, saidGeorge j but it is verily reported that their is plentyof money about this house, and whei’e can it be ? saysGeorge, I cannot find it 5 for it is not within thehouse to do me service then surely it must be belowit. O George, says the king, that is a crave afterthe new fashion ; what money you want I‘il order itfor yon. Then, my sovereign, says George, I‘ll digno more.«One time George being in the country, he arrivedat an ion, where he alighted to refresh himself andhis horse. The innkeeper charged him double pricefor every thing he called for. George never grum¬bled at this but gave him all his demands, and awayhe goes on his journey. At the inn where he quarter¬ed next night, he was used after the same manner ifnot worse. 1 laving litle farther to go he returnednext day, and came to the same inn where he hadbeen two nights before. So, when he alighed, theboy asked him what he would give his horse ? Y\ hatyou will, says lie. Ti e master of the inn came into,his room before supper, and asked what he wouldhave for supper. Vvhat you will, landlord says he.After supper, and a hearty howl to put all down, hewent to bed. On the morrow he rose very early, andcalled for the boy to make really his horse in ail haste,for be intends^ to mount and go directly. Soon after,he went into the stable wheie the boy was, callingfor his horse, when be mounted with all the speed kecould, and gaxe the boy a piece of money, saying,.Here, my boy, this is for taking care of my horse Ji15: I hare paid for all 1 called for in the house,—and offjjhe goes. About mid-day he alighted again at an inn11 to refresh himself and his horse, and there he chancedi jto he in cotbpuny with his other landlord, tvho usedi'! him so badly ; Sir, says George, I believe I was in11 your house two nights ago. O yes, Sir, says he, I: imind of you pretty well. And where was you lastl i night? Last night! says George, I was in one of ther linns, and the civilest landlord I ever had in my life;£ they brought all things to me that I stood in need of,■ Without calling for them; and when 1 came off thismorning, they charged me nothing, and I paid noth¬ing but sixpence to the boy for dressing my horse.Biood and wounds! said the old fellow, thsnl’ll goOtithere this night.—Ay, do, says George, and mindIthis, when they ask you what will you have for your¬self and ycur horse, answer, What you will, sir.George smiled within himself to think how he had3pot one extortioner to take amends of the, other.'jSo this innkeeper set off on his journey, and rode so 'ate that night, that he might reach tlv? cheap inn, thatnost of the people were gone to bed before he ar-ived. As soon as he dismounted from bis horse, theoy inquired at him, What shall J: have to your horse,oaster ? To which he answered, What you will, boy.'be boy hearing this ran away up stairs leaving himnd his horse standing at the door, to his master’soom, crying, master, master, What you will is comeligain! iO the rogue! cries he, where is he d11 cane him,— t’il what you will him by and by !—ad to him he runs with his cane, licks and kicksmini until he was hardly able to mount bis horse again,. find would give him no entertainment there; which;ti| lauseu him to ride a whole winter night, after he hadigot his bones all beat and bruised. So the one pur-ued t(be other as a muxdecer; and his defence was,1(3That he was a cheat, and a scorner of his houseuntil the truth was found out.After this, George being in Cornwall about bus¬iness, where he chanced to run short of money, andnot knowing how to make his way to London withoutit, being acquainted with none in that country, butknowing his landlord to be loyal to government, anda great favourite of the king his master, he takes apiece of brfck, and brays it into small powder, mixedwith a little chalk, so that it might seem in colourlike arsenic, winch is strong poison ; then tying it upin two papers, writing on the <»ie, ’ Strong poison forthe King' and on the other, ’Slow poison for theQueen.' Out he goes on purpose, anti leaves the par¬cels on the table, where he knew they would be look¬ing at them, the landlord perceived the directions.So in cornea George in a great haste, and calls out,0 landlord, did you see two small parcels I have lost,1 know not what to do, for it was my main businessto take them to London. O y ou murdering rogue !cries the landlord, I will have you hanged for whatyou intend. George hearing this, made olf, but thelandlord calling for assistance, lie was apprehended,made prisoner of state, and conducted to London bya troop of horse ; where the people knowing him toldthe guard whojhe was, they hearing this slipt awayshamefully one by one, George thanking them lortheir good company and safe convoy.George one day easing himself at the corner of ahedge, was espied by an English ’squire, who beganto mock him, asking him, Why he did not keckle likethe hens? But, George, whose wit was always ready,told him, he was afraid to keckle lest he would comeand snatch up the egg. Which rebuff made the ’squirewalk off as mute as a fish.Georgs wsr.ifctday bv tuiee ut»:.op?, wuopaid him the following compliments,—Says the first,Good-day, father Abraham; the second, Good-day,lather Isaac ; the third, Good-day, father Jacob. Towhich he replied, I am neither father Abraham, fa¬ther Isaac, nor father Jacob *, but I am Saul the sonof Kish, sent out to seek my father’s asses, and lo f Ihave found three of them. Which answer convincedthe bishops that they had mistaken their man.There was a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popishi ] clergy made use of to extort confession from the ig-' norant people, in the following manner,-—They toldthe persons who they suspected guilty, the bell wouldrive at the touch of a guilty person, but if not guiltyit woaid not. Ey these means they generally fright¬ened the ignorant into confession j for if the bellwould rive the person was then to be condemned todeath. But they managed the matter so, that the bellwas never brought to trial, till George did as follows;he was imprisoned for saying, That the Pope was fairliable Himself; and could not pardon the sins of others.George owned he did so, but would refer to the bellt whether he was guilty or not. The priests, tiio’ un¬willing, were obliged to comply.—George touchedthe bell, repeating as before, The Pope is falliable,and cannot pardon sin ; moreover added, The Popeand the Popish clergy are imposters ; and thereupontouched the bell, referring it to for the truth ; but the1 bell net rending, the priests were disgraced as im-posters, George was honourably acquitted ; and thebell was laid aside.A young gentleman that would be witty on theScriptures, eating some cheese full of mites one night,at a tavern.—Now, said he, I have done as much asti Bamson, for I have slain my thousands and ten thou-issands. YtS, rcvplied George, who happened (o he inhis company, and with the same weapon too, the jaw.bone of an ass; which set the whole company alaugh-ing, to see the young nobleman beat with his ownweapon.George being in company where three bishops werepresent at dinner, they knowing George to be a greatscholar, and comical withal, they pat upon him to saythe grace, which be did as follow—Here are three brethren of the coat,Who for thy blessings thank thee not.Curse them, Lord, and bless them not. Amen.Fall on, gentlemen, the canse is good. This gracemade the bishops look on one another like fools, whileGeorge laughed heartily at the confusion they were in.A candlemaker having had some candles stolen, wastelling it in a company where George was present,who bade him be of good cheer, for, says he, iu a shorttime they will all come to light.George being sent to Paris about some business, wentfrbm thence to Versailles to see the French king’scourt : and being known, there by several of (l>ecourtiers, who had been at the English court, one ofthem took occasion to iell the French king, thatGeorge was one of the wittiest men in England ; uponwhich, the French king desired to see him ; which hedid, but George, it seems, was out of humour, or seem*ingly so, and spoke but little to the purpose, so thatthe French king told the nobleman who commendedhim for such wit, that he looked upon him as a very,dull fellow ; hut the nobleman assured the king, thatwhatever he thought of him, George was a very wittyarid ingenious man ; whereupon, the king was resolv.19ed (o make farther trial ofahim, and took him into aI large hall where there was a great mnv.‘Ser of fineKipictures, and among the rest he shewed him the pic-i iture of Christ on the cross, and asked him if he knewillwhom that was? hut Geerge made himself veryignorant, and answered No. Why, said the kieig, Iwill tell you, if you do not know.—This is the pic¬ture of our Saviour on the cross, and that on the righthand is the pope’.-, and that on the left is my own.Whereupon George replied, humbly thank your ma¬jesty for the information, for tho’ 1 have often heardlibat our Saviour was crucified between two thieves,yet 1 never knew who they were before.j George being one day travelling to London, anddie weather being very cold and rainy, he alighted atvn inn te refresh and warm himself; hut the fire be-■ng surrounded with people lie scarcely could see it,'■ipeorge finding this to he the case, calls to the hostler,'and orders him to give his horse, at the door, half aipeck of oysters. You mean oats, Sir. No, no, saysjGeorge, it is oysters, and base is »bat horse that willhot eat oysters. The people at the fire hearing this,started up and ran to the door to see the'horse eat¬ing oysters. The moment they left their seats, Georgeock the opportunity to plant himself hefox-e the fireWith a table and cloth aside him. In a little theyoame back again one by erne, saying, Tills horse willhot eat oysters. Well, well, says George lie' is tooI'till or too saucy ; so you may bring them in and Irill eat them myself;1 One time after this George being in cofopany a-iout twenty miles froth Loudon, and on Iris waylomeward, a fine gilded coach Came up after Him,I ind being informed that it belonged to the bishop of: -lanterbury, and was going London' for h?$* Lord-20s]iLt>, George addresses himself to tiie coachman to;hav« a passage wich him in the coach to London Sohe bargained with the coachman for two dollars tccarry him to the Bell-Inn on London bridge ; the oneljhe gave him in hand as he entered the coach, and hejjwas to give him the other as soon as he saw him coaieljout of the coach-door. So away the coachman drlvesjlto London, in all haste, in which time George wrotejlthe following lines—Here sits the bishop of Canterbury,Who at the schools disdained to tarry.Far better skill’d in games than preaching,And yet he lives by others’ teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed,’Tis blind and lame that chariots need,5Six brutes with eyes this brute doth carry,I mean the bishop Canterbury,My feet being lame I gave a dollarTo be drove in state, like you a scholar;For which l do myself abhor,Shame caus’d me make another door.These lines George battered on the inside of th*coach, and when he came within a mile of London Intook a knife and cut a great hole in the backside o.the coach, through which he came out; and to makihis promise good to the coachman, that he was to givihim the other dollar as soon as ever he saw him comout at the coach-door. The poor coachman drove otill he came to the aforesaid inn, where he alighte'and opened the door to let out his passenger ; but seeing the coach empty, and a great hole in the hackside of it, Ire cried, I believe I have had the devil ithe coach, and he has taken away the backside of iwith him. The people of the inn came flocking about to see what was done ; and then perceived thilines on the inside of the coach, which the bishop camiand read himself, they all concluded it to be done hi21; I George, Lut could make nothing of it for the bishopii said, to pursue might well make it worse, but no better.i George went into the Mint one day, when theyijtwere melting gold. One of them asked George if hewould have his hat full of gold? George readily ac-i icepted, but it burnt the bottom out of his hat, as thevknew it would, and for that bout they foild George.However, George to be even with them, bought afine large hat, and caused a plate of copper to be putbetwixt the hat and the lining; and, returning nextJay, they jestingly asked him if he would have ano-:ber hat full of gold? he said he wonld. They gavet red hot, and George now laughed at them in hisi i uir, telling them. That this new hat was a good onemd stood fire better than the old one. And so hei carried it off honestly; and, being prosecuted to rc-urn it, he excused himself, telling the judge that hel ook nothing but what was given him. And there*ore he was honourably acquitted, and the other hear*ily laughed at.ii A Scotchman being reduced to poverty, made hisuomplaint to George to pat him in a way to get mo-.,ey. George told him if he would follow his direc-ilions he would try it. Theie was an old miser a nili rer and money-changer hard by, George told the fel*w to pretend an errand to the miser, and when heMarne to the table where the heaps of money lay, toii’irust his hand among the gold, but to lift none, andct run off. This the poor fellow did, and was chas-lt|l by the miser and his servants, who ran after himito tlie street, crying, Step the thief! The poor fel-«w was stopt, l as George had desired to let themtch him) George appeared in the mob, and wentcmg with him, who was carried before a judge, when>- was searched, and nothing being found upon him22lie was acquitted, and the miser fined In a large sumfor accusing him. Afterwards, Geerge desired himto go to the same place, and thrust in both his hands,and lift up as much as he could, and run off, Thishe did, but the miser told him lie was not such a foolas to follow him, for he knew he designed to play thefool to have him fined again. By these means thepoor fellow was enriched, and afterwards lived ho->nestiy.George being at dinner one day, where the broth Jwas exceeding hot, burnt his mouth, at the same timeletting a loud fart. It is very good for you, saysGeorge, that you made your escape, for I should have iburnt you alive had you staid..Two drunken fellows fell aleating one another outhe streets of London, which capsgil a great crowd ofpeople throng together to see what it was; a taylorbeing at work in a garret, about three or four storkshigh, and hearing a noise in the street, looked overthe window, but could not well see them ; so he began to stretch himself, making a long peck, until hefell down out of the window, and alighted uponold man Who was walking on the sire f t; ,ihe poor tay-lor was more afraid than hurt,Jjpt il.e nan he fell ondied directly. Hi.s son caused the taylov to be appiT-hended, and tried for the murder of his father. Thejury, could not bjring it in as wilful murder, neithercould they altogether free the taylory so the jury gaveit ovee- to the judges, and the judges to the king. Theking asked George’s advice in the matter. Why,says George, I will give you my opinion in a minute;you must cause the taylor to stand on the street in thesame place where the old gentleman was when he waskilled by the taylor, and then let the ojd gentleman’sgon, the taylor's adversary, go up to the window front23, chance the taylor fell, and jump down and so kill tfiB1 tayldr as he did his lather; for I can make no n>or,eI of it j you see it was a great mercy for the taylor thatihe had the old gentleman beneath him, else he hadsheen killed on the sprt, and that it was the old gentle-itnan's lot or misfortune to die there. The taylor‘s(adversary hearing this sentence past, he would notventure to jump over the window, and so the taylorgot clear off.After this, an English ‘squire, who professed tohe better versed in poetry than George, laid a wa¬ger with another gentleman, five guineas against one,i ithat George would not metre the first words that hei iwould.say to him in the morning, when newly awaked; out of his sleeps so tile gentleman went the night be-1‘ifore and told George the story, and bade him be onais guard, for in tho morning they would certainlyicome, and that tery early. At midnight, if they will,liwys George, I will order my servant to let them in.i1 So the English ‘squire sat up all night conferringwith his friends, whether to put a high verse to him,i >r mean simple words j thinking that George wouldi )e sitting up all night meditating on an answer ; so' :hey all agreed, that mean and simple words he wouldlliot be thinking on, and have no answer provided forl;uch. So away they came in the morning vCry early,Itoith several gentlemen in company to hear the diver*iiion. George's servant opened the door, accordingilo his master's orders. The ‘squire entered the roomSirsb and awaked George out of his sleep, then said,i|; Else up you madman and put on your clothes*(To which George answered,)1> thou hast lost thy wad man, for I am none of those;4 The ‘squire confessed he w^s fairly beat, andhvouldh'ratch with him no more. Then another gentlemanN24.would hold five guineas, that he would give him aword or line which he could not metre at the first an¬swer, and to answer It directly as soon as he was donespeaking ; but George ordered him first to table themoney, and then to proceed, which he didin all haste*and said as follows—*My belly rumbled, and then I farted.(George, gripping the money, answered,)A fool and his money is soon parted.Then they all cried out he was fairly beaten, andwhat George had said was really true j but he wouldnever lay any more wagers concerning poetry.George being now far advanced in years, and beingweary of the great fatigue and folly of the court fa¬shions, a short time before his death, he had,-a greatdesire to go and visit his native country, and theplace of his nativity ; therefore he petitioned the King ,for leave to do so, whirh wm granted. So he set out'far Scotland, and went ta the parish of Buchanan, inthe west, where he visited all his relations had friends.But George staying longer from court than the timeP allowed, the King sent him several messages to re«turn, to which he returned no answer. At last theKing sent him a letter, threatening, that if he did not:appear before him in the space, of twenty days, he.would send his Lyon Heralds for him } to which:George returned the following answer-^My hononred Liege, and sovereign King,Of your hpastiug great I dread nothing ;On your feu<] and favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll he where few Kings enter.And he also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his kingdom,and the well-being of his soul, which drew tears fno nilthe King’s eyes when he read it.riNts.