THEEMIGRANT;APOEM.ty the Honourable HESR1C ERSKINE.To which is added,DR. SMOL LET'sODE,T OLEVEN WATER.EDINBURGH:?RJNT£D BY J. ROESB.TSON, (No. 4,) HORSE WYN».m6'f ^ §f scon>5' «iJae...... • ;.. ... ..ADVERTISEMENT.’The following “Very beauti ul and pathetic Poem, the pro-duil.on of the Honourable Henhy Exskive was writtenupon occafion of the frequent emigrations from Scotland, moreejpeciully ftom the Highlands.That the publication of it may tend to heighten and to dif-fufe that fpitit of benevolence and humanity, towards ourAi/trejfed countrymen, which feems at prefent to be awakened,is the deftgn o its prefent publication.—And it is earnejlly tobe wjfjed, that it may promote the good end jor which it isnow preftnted to the public.Copies 0/ it appeared /ome time ago in a mutilated form;the prejent is printed from that done with permijjion of the*amiab.e and di/tinguijhed author, and it will afford the read,er more pleajure, when he is affured that it is entire.THE EMIGRANT." Xos-patriae fines, et dulcia liftquiirMi area,So\ parriam fugimus—”' VIRGIL.We leave our country and our native plains.,>I* ast by the margin of a mofly rill.That' wander’d, gurgling, down a heath-clad hill,An ancient (hepherd Rood, opprefs’d with woe,And ey’d the ocean’s flood that foam’d belowWhere gently rocking on the rifing tide,A (hip’s Cnwonted form was feen to ride.Unwonted, well 1 ween ; for ne’er before,Had touch’d one keel, the folitary Ihore ;Nor had the (wain’s rude footfteps ever (tray’d,Beyond the ihelter of his native (hade.His few remaining hairs were (liver grey,And his rough face had feen a better day.( 4 )Around him, bleating, ftray’d a fcanty flock.And a few goats o’erhung the neighb’ring rock.One faithful dog his forrows feem’d to (hare.And drove, with many a trick to eafe his care.While o’ei his furrow’d cheeks, the fait drops ran,He tun’d his rultic reed, and thus began :“ Farewel ! farewel! dear Caledonia’s ftrand,“ Rough though thou be, yet dill my native land,Exil’d from thee 1 feek a foreign fliore,“ Friends, kindred, country, to behold no more:“ By hard Opprelhon driv’n. my helplefs age,“ That fhould ere now have left Life’s hurtling“ ‘tage,*< Is forc’d the ocean’s boifl’rous breaft to brave,“ In a far foreign land to feek a grave.“ And mu ft I leave tbee then my little cot!“ Mine and my father’s poor, but happy, lot,“ Where I have pafs d in innocence away,“ Year after year, till Age has turn’d me grey?“ Thou, dear companion of my happier life,“ Now to the grave gone down, my virtuous wife,“ ’ f'was here you rear’d with fond maternal pride,“ Five comely Tons: three for their country died!“ Two tlill remain, fad remnant of the wars,“ Without one ma^'k of honour but their fears;“ 7'hey live to fee their fir'e deny’d a grave,“ In lands his much lov’d children died to fave :“ Yet ftill in peace and fafety did we live,“ In peace and faiety more than wealth can give.“ Mv two remaining boys, with fturdy hands,“ Rear’d the fcant produce of our niggard lands:“ Scant as it was, no more our hearts defir'd,w No more from ui our gen’rous lord requir’d,“ But ah, fad change ! thofe bleffed days are oTer,“ And Peace, Content, and Safety charm no more.“ Another lord now rules thofe wide domains,“ 1 he avaricious tyrant of the plains,“ Far, far from hence he revels life away,“ In guilty pteafures, our poor means mud pay.“ The moffy plains, the mountain’s barren brow^“ Mud now be tortur’d by the rearing plough,“ -\nd, fpite of nature, crops be taught to rife,“ Which to thefe northern climes wife Heav’n de-“ nies. »“ In vain, with fweating brow and weary bands^** We drive to earn the gold our lord demands,“ While cold and hunger, and the dungeon’s gloom,“ Await our failure as its certain doom.“ To fhun thefe ills that threat my hoary head,“ I feek. in foreign la1 ds precarious bread jv“ Forc’d, tho’ my helplefs age from guilt be pure,“ The pangs of banifh’d felons to endure ;“ And all becaufe thefc- hands have vainly try’d“ To force from art what nature has deny’d j“ Becaufe my little all will not fudice“ To pay th’ infatiate claims of Avarice.“ In vain, of richer climates I am told,4* VVhofe hills are rich in gems, whole dreams are“gold, :   -C 6 )“ I am contented here, I ne’er have feen" A vale more fertile, nor a hill more green,44 Nor would I leave this fw«et, though humble cot,44 To (hare the richell monarch’s envied lot.“ O! would to Heaven the alternative were mine,44 Abroad to thrive, or here in want to pine,44 Soon would 1 chufe : but ere to-morrow’s fun44 Has o’er my head his radiant journey run,44 I (hall be robb’d, by what they JUS 1 iCE call,44 By legal ruffians, of my little all :44 Driv’n out to Hunger, Nakednefs and Grief,44 Without one pitying hand to,bring relief.44 Then come, oh ! fad alternative to chufe,44 Come, Banilhment, I wilt no more refufe.44 Go where 1 may, nor billows, rocks, nor wind,44 Can add of horror to my tortur’d mind j44 On whatfoever coaft I may be thrown,.44 No lord can ufe me harder than my own;44 Even they w ho tear the limbs and drink the gore,44 Of helplefs Hrangers, what can they do more ?44 For thee, infatiate chief; whofe ruthlefs hand44 For ever drives me from my native land :44 For thee I leave no greater curie behind,44 1 han the fell bodings of a guilty mind ;44 Or what were harder to a foul like thine,44 To find from avarice thy wealth decline.“ Foryou,my friends, and neighbours,ofthe vale,44 Who now with kindly tears my fate bewail,44 Soon may your king, whofe bread paternal glows,“ With tendered feelings for his peoples woes,( 7 )Soon may the ru’ers of tins miglity !and,S o eafe your forro'vs itretcn the helping hand,“ Rife foon, too foon, your haplefs fate hall be,“ Like me to fuffer, to depart like ice.“ On your dear native land, from whence I part,“ Relt the beft blefling of a broken heart.“ If in fome future hour, the foe Ihould land“ His hoflile legions on Britannia’s flrand,“ May (lie not then th’ alarum found in vain,“ Nor mifs her baniflied thoutands on the plain.“ Feed on, my Iheep, for though depriv’d of me,“ My cruel foes (hall your protedlors be,Fortheirownfakes,(hall penyourftragglingflocks,“ And fave your lambkins from the rav’ning fox.“ Feed on, my goats, another now fhall drain“ Your dreams that heal difeale and foftenpainj“ No li reams alas ! can ever, ever flow,“ To heal your mafler’s heart, or foothe his woe.“ Feed on, my flocks, ye harmlef? people, feed,“ 1 he word that ye can fuflfer is to bleed.“ O ! that t1 e murderer’s heel were all my fear!“ How fondly would I flay to perilh here -“ But, hark ! Ay fons loud call me from the vale,“ And, lo ! the veflel fpreads the fwelling fail.“ Farewel! fartwel!” A while his hands he wrung,And o’er his crook in fpeechlefs forrow hung,Then calling mai y a ling’ring look behind,Down the fleep mountain’s brow began to wind.Ih '■t1i(( 3 )ODETo LEVEN IV^ TER.On Leven’s banks, while free to rove,And tune the rural pipe to love,I'envy’d not the happiell TwainThat ever trod th’ Arcadian plain.Pure flream ! in whofe tranfparent waveMv youthful limbs I wont to lave ;No torrents ffain thy limpid fource,No rocks impede thy dimpling courfe,That fweetly warbles o’er its bed,With white, round, poliih’d pebbles fpread :While, lightly pois’d, the fcaly broodIn myriads cleave thy cryflal flood.The fpringing trout, in fpeckPd pride;The falmon, monarch of the tyde ;The ruthlefs pike, intent on war;The filyer eel and mottley’d par,Devolving from thy parent lake,A charming maze thy waters make,JBy bow’rs of birch, and groves of pine,And hedges, flowVd with eglantine.Still on thy banks, fo gailv green.May num’rous herds and flocks be ieen;And laffes, chanting o’er the pail ;And fhepherds, piping.in the dale;And ancient faith, that knows no guile.And induilry imbrown’d with toil ;And hearts refolv’d, and hands prepar’d,The bleffings they enjoy to guard !* # * * *• * 3s...-.' i. ..