Laugh and Grow Fat! !!OR, THE COMICAL»Budget of WitA SELECTION OFChoice Bon Mots,Irish Blunders, Repartees, Anecdotes, S,~e.Tare to our coffins adds a nail no doubt,While every laugh, so merry, draws oue out.FALKIRK ;Printed by T. Johnston,—1827*(/OF SCOTLANDqo■ f'TO■•O' ■ v « KLAUGH AND BE FATWOR THEBUDGET OF FUST.A Gentleman recently married, was enjoyingwith his fair one, an evening walk along the beachat Musselburgh. That moment a vessel had leftthe harbour, bound for a foreign port: ‘Vray, mydear, (says the lady) what is toe difference be¬tween exported aftd transported ?’——Were you mylove, (returned the gentleman) a-hpard that vessel,you would be exported, and I would be transported.A London lady was on a visit to a friend in Edin¬burgh, who was at great pains to point out to herall the delightful prospects of that romantic city:The stranger, assuming an air of consequence, gen¬erally answered, “ ’Tis very well for a Scotch view!”One delightfnl evening, walking along Queen Streetwhile the autumnal moon shone with an uncommonlustre, her friend could not help expressing her ad¬miration of the resplendent orb of night, when theCockney dryly remarked, “It is very well for aScotch moon!”4Two English Gentlemen, gome time ago, visitedthe field of Bannockburn, so celebrated for the to¬tal defeat the of English army by Robert the Brucewith an army of Scotch heroes, not one-fourth theirnumber:—A sensible countryman pointed out thepositions of both armies, the stone where the Bruce’sstandard was fixed during the battle, &c. Highlysatisfied with his attention, the gentleman, on leav¬ing him, pressed his acceptance of a crown-picce :“Na, na,” said the honest- man, returning the mo¬ney, “ keep yeur crown-piece, the English hae paiddear enough already for seeing the field of Ban¬nockburn.”In a p?rty of ladies, on it being reported that aCaptain Silk had arrived in town they exclaimed,with one exception, “ what a name for a soldier !”<< the fittest name in the world,” rejoined a wittyfemale, “for Silk never can be Worsted 1”Some time since, at one of our seaports, a noblenaval commender, who is a strict discinlinanan. ac¬costed a drunken sailor in the street, with, “ whatship do you belong to ?’’ Jack, who was a dry fel¬low, notwithstanding he was drunk, and had a veryeccentric countenance, answered with much sangfroid, “ Don't know." “ What's your captain'sname?” “Don't know.” “ Do you know who Iam ?” “ No." “ Why I am commander in chief.”“ Then,” replied he archly. “ you have a d ’dgood birth of it, that's all I know!”Hugh Arnot happened to come into Mr Creech’sshop one day, when an old woman was finding fault5with the printing and paper of a Bible she yvas a-bout to purchase, looted over her shoulder & said,that “ both were good enough for the subject.’ —‘ O ye monster!’ exclaimed the woman ; then turn¬ing round andobserving his miserably meagre figure,added, ‘ And he’s an anatomy too !’A West Indian, who had a remarkably fiery nosehaving fallen asleep in his chair, a negro boy whowas in waiting, observed a musquitto hoveringhovering round his face. Quashi eyed the insectvery attentively; at last he saw him alight on hismasters nose, and immediately fly off. ‘ Ah, d—nyour heart,’ exclaimed the negro^ ‘ Me d—n gladsee you burn you foot,’Some differences lately occurred between a corpsof Volunteers and their Commandant. The regi¬ment was ordered to appear before the inspectingGeneral, and the Colonel of course gave the wordof command, “ Attention !—Shoulder arms !’ nota muscle nor a musket moved. The command wasrepeated in a louder voice ; the corps was still mo¬tionless. The General much surprised, beckonedto a sergeant, and asked, Why the corps refused toact? An’t plaise your honour, says Pat, makingthe due obeisance, it is^becays the Colonel and theregiment are not on Speaking terms.During the high price of coals, a gentleman meetmg Iris coal merchant, inquired whether it was pro¬per to lay in a stock. The knight of the blackdiamond shook his head, observing, Coals are Coalsnow, Sir! To which his customer replied, “ 1 m6very glad to hear it, for the last you sent me vrefeall slates.”A gentleman having occasion to call for Mr.Joseph C n, writer, found him at home in hiswriting chamber. He remarked the great heat ofhis apartment, and said, It was as hot as an oven.It ought,” repliedMr. G. <; for it is here I make mybread.”The hte well known Sandy Wood, surgeon inEdinburgh, was walking through the streets ofthat city during the time of an illumination, whenhe observed a young rascal, not above 12 years ofage, breaking every window he could reach, withas much industry as if he had been doing the mostcommendable action in the world. Enraged at thismischievous disposition, Sandy seized him by thecollar, and asked him what he meant by thus de¬stroying the honest people’s windows ? * Why, it’sail for the good of trade, replied the young urchin,I am a glazier. All for the good of trade, is It?said Sandy, raising his cane, and breaking the boy’s 'head. Tnerc, then, that’s for the good of my trade,—I am a surgeon.Barrymore happening to come late to the theatre,and having to dress for his part, was driven to thelast moment, when, to heighten his perplexity, thekey of his drawer was amissing U n it,” saidhe, “I must have swallowed it.” “Never mind,”says Jack Bannister, “ if you have, it will serve toapen your chest.’’;7Mr. Curran being, retained against a young officerwho was indicted for a very gross assault, openedthe case in the following manner:—My Lord, I amcounsel for the crown; and I am first to acquaintyour Lordship, that this'soldier.—Nay, Sir, saysthe military hero. 1 would have you know. Sir, I aman officer O Sir, I beg your pardon, says thethe Counsellor, very drily : Why then my Lard, tospeak more correctly, this officer, who is no soldier.A Clergyman, lately examining his Parishioners,asked an old man who made him, which he hesitat¬ed to answer, and the question was put to a youngboy that was present, who answered, God—Now,Sir, says the Clergyman, is it not a shame for younot to answer this simple question when such achild could do it. Nae wonder, Sir, for it’s onlytwa or three days since he was made; but it is solong since I was made, that I really forget!‘ D n it,’ says Jack, to a young fellow of hisacquaintance, wearing two watches, ‘ you have cer¬tainly been guilty of some heinous offence !' ‘ Whyso,’ answered the fop, somewhat alarmed—‘Becausereplies the other,' ‘ I see you are doubly watched): ' 'An Irishman in Oxford vras assisting others toset at large three rioters, who were escorted bysome yeomanry to prison; in consequence of whicha shot was fired at Patrick, which struck him onhis right hand, when he exclaimed, ‘ by J , I amshot, and I beleive I am a dead man.An Irishman^ having bought a sheep’s head, hadsbeen to a friend for a direction to dress it. As hewas returning, repeating the method, and holdinghis purchase under his arm, a dog snatched it andran away. Now, my dear joy, said the Irishman,what a fool you make of yourself! what use will itbe to you as you don’t know how it is to be dressed.An old bawd being carried before the late Justice Bond, for keeping a disorderly hause; strong.ly denied all that was charged against her. Housewife! housewife! said the justice, how haveyou the assurance to deny it? You do keep a baw¬dy-house, and I will maintain it.—Will you, repliedthe old bawd : the Lord bless you! I always tookyou to be a kind hearted gentleman.Some time ago a member of Parliament appliedto the Post office, to know why some of his frankshad been charged. The answer was,—we suppose,Sir, they were not of your writing. The hand isnot the same. Why not precisely the same : butthe truth is, I happened to be a little tipsy when Iwro'e them.—Then, Sir. will you be so good in fu-ure as to write drunk when you make free.A young lady going into a barrack room at FortGeorge, saw an officer toasting a slice of bread onthe point of his sword. On vdiich she exclaimed,I think, Sir, you have got the staff of life cn thepoint of death.A physician seeing Charles Bannister about toarink a gluts of brandy, said, font drink that filthy9sluS", brandy is the worst enemy yon have. I knowthat, replied Charles, but you know, we are com-maaded by scripture to love our enemies.Dean Jackson, passing one morning throughChrist-church quadrangle, met some under gradu¬ates, who walked along without capping. The Deancalled one of them, and asked, Do you know whoI am? No, Sir. How long have you been in Col¬lege ? Eight days, Sir. Oh, very well, said theDean, walking away, puppies don't open their eyestill the ninth day.Whilst the immortal Garrick was one night per¬forming the part of Hamlet, a character in whichthat inimitable actor displayed an exquisite know-1ledge of nature, and when he was arrived at one ofthe most affecting scenes in that tragedy the au¬dience all mute attention,—when even a pin mighthave been heard failing to the ground, all at onceto the astonishment of the spectators, Garrick wasseen to burst out into a violent fit of laughter, andmn suddenly off the stage: In a moment all theplayers followed him. The audience, amazed atthe strangeness of tuis conduct, cast their eyes a-round every corner of the house, when they imme¬diately disccvered the cause of Garrick’s merriment.A jolly round faced butcher was seated in front ofone of the high boxes, wiping his bald pate, fromwhich the sweat flowed in copious steams.—his sa¬gacious mastiff, no doubt eager to enjoy as well ashis master, the admirable Performance of the Princeof Tragedians, had placed his fore feet upon thefront or tne butcher’s box, and was looking eagerlym10down upon the stage, with his grave phiz dignifiedby his master’s full-bottomed wig 1 fhe audiencefound it impossible to restraip their gravity at thisludicrous sight. The loudest p< ais of laughter burstfrom the pit, the boxes, and the galljsrjes; and itwas a great while ere rhe perfothieVs could ag.ainresume the gravity necessary for performing a tra¬gedy so deeply interesting.Soon after Dr. Johnson's return from Scotlandto London, a Scottish lady, at whose house he(vvas,as a compliment, ordered, some hotch-potch! forhis dinner. After the doctor had tasted it, she ask-2u him if it was good ?—To which he replied, verygood for hogs ?—Then, pray, said the lady, let me 1helo you to a little more.f **The clergyman of a village, a few miles southfrom Edinburgh, which is alrnpst entirelyLurround- \ed by colliers, being one day engaged in examininghis parishioner's on the principles cl the Christianreligion, and fiding them extremely deficient in theirknowledge of these divine truths, felt it his duty todisplay, in pretty strong terms the punishment thatawaited the wicked in a future world ; observing,that they would be cast into a place of utter dark- jness, where there would be weeping, and wailing,and gnashing of teeth Let them gnash that haveteeth, cries an old woman at a corner of the church :for my part, I have had none these thirty' years.Donald M'Gregor, a notorious sheep-lifter (aliassheep stealer,) in the north Highlands, being at last11overtaken by the grim tyrant of the human race,was visited by the minister of the parish, whose ap* *paarance, however, was by no means agreeable toDonald. The holy man warmly exhorted the dy¬ing Highlander to reflect upon the long and blackcatalogue of his sins, before it was too late, other¬wise he would have a tremendous account to giveat the great day of retribution, when all the crimeshe had committed in this world would appear indreadful array as evidence of his guilt.—Ocli! Sir,cries the dying man, and will a' the sheeps, thecows, and ilka thing Donald h^s helped herself tobe there. Undoubtedly, replied the parson.— Thenlet ilka shentleman tak’ her nain* and Donald wrillbe an honest man again.R. Palmer meeting Lady Derby some time since,,and having acted with her for many years in theat¬res, barns, and stables, he thought it no vast pre¬sumption to ask her ladyship how she did. TheCountess, raising her eye glass, looked doubtful afew moments, and at last lisped out, “ Mr. Palmerif I mistake not.” “ I am sorry you have lost youreyes by star gazing,” said Bob, contemptuously,and walked on.Quin being one day in a coffee-house, saw ayoung beau enter, in an elegant negligee dress,quite languid with the heat of the day. “ Waiter!”said the coxcomb, in an affected faint voice, ‘ wait¬er, fetch me a dish of coffee, weak as water, andcce! as a zephyer!” Quin, in a voice of thunder,immediately vociferated, * Waiter, bring me a dishof coffee, h©t as h-U, and strong as d—inn—n !’The beau starting, exclaimed, ‘ Waiter, what is thatgentleman's name?’ Quin, in his usual tremendoustone, exclaimed, ‘ Waiter, pray what is that lady'sname?A Highlander was visited on his death-bed byhisclergyman, who exhorted Donald to prepare for a-nother world, by a sincere repentance of all thecrimes he had committed on earth ; and earnestlyurged the absolute necessity of forgiving his ene¬mies. Donald shrugged up his shoulders at thishard request: yet he at last agreed to forgive everyperson who had injured him, except one, who hadlong been the Highlander’s mortal foe, and of whomDonald hoped the parson would make an exception.The holy man, however, insisted so much on thispoint, that Donald at last said, ‘ Wed, weel, Sir,since there be no help far it, Donald maun e’en for- -gi'eher, but,’ turning to his two sons, ‘ may G—dd—n you, Duncan and Rory, if you forgi’e her.’A clergyman chose for his text the following ;words; “ Which of you will go up with me to Ra- 1moth-Gilead ?” Then pausing, he again and againrepeated the words; when a gallant tar started fromhis seat, and looking round him, with an eye of in¬dignation, he exclaimed, “ will none of you go w iththe worthy gentleman ? As for my part, I go forone!The Laird of M'Nab was writing to one of bisfriends from an Edinburgh Coffee-house, when a13gentleman of his acquaintance observed, that he wassetting at defiance the orthography and grammar.1 D—n your blood !’ exclaimed the Highland chief¬tain “ how can a man write grammer with a pen likethis ?’A young wpman of Dublin, apprehensive of someunhappy effects from an illicit amour, which she hadfor some time carried on with a Dutch sailor, men¬tioned her situation to a friend, who advised her toplace her future offsj ring to her young master, as-being the richer mar of the two. ‘ I was thinkingof that,’ replied the fair one, ‘ but then you knowthe child will discover all when it begins to speakDutch.A tar having go le into the pit of Drury.lanetheatre, recognised * me of his messmates aloft, a •mong the gods; ‘ Pi ay, Jack, what did it cost youto get into that d— -n d snug birth ?’ On being in¬formed that he gave only a shilling :—‘ D mme,this is fine business, I gave five shillings to get stow¬ed into this here hoi 1.A Highlander hsving gone with his master intothe church of Notr ;-Drme at Paris, to hear highmass, was very much delighted with the magnifi.cence of the edifice, the splendour of the clergy¬men’s dresses, and tl e divine harmony of the music.On leaving church, his master asked him h ow heliked the performance ? ‘ Oh, Sir, ’twas wondrousfine,’replied Donald, ‘God is served here like ashentleman, but in n y country (with reverence beuit spoken) he is treated little better than a scoun¬drel.’An Irishman, some years ago, attending theUniversity of Glasgow, waited upon one of the mostcelebrated teachers of the German flute, desiringto know on what terms he would give him a fewlessons; the flute player informed him, that hegenerally charged two guineas for the first monthand one guinea for the second.—‘ Then, by mysoul,’ replied the Hibernian, ‘ I’ll come the secondmonth !’A countryman sowing his ground, two smart fel¬lows riding that way, one of them called to him withan insolent air, “ Well, honest fellow, (said he) ’tisyour business to sow, but we reap the fruits of yourlabour.” To which the countryman replied, “ ’Tisvery likely you may for I am sowing hemp.”A country fellow, just come up to London, andpeeping into every shop as he passed by, at lastlooked into a scrivener’s: where seeing only oneman sitting at a desk, could not imagine what wassold there : and calling to the clerk, said, pray sir,what do you seli ? Loggerheads, cried the other.Do you so? (said the countryman;) truly, youhave a special trade then, for I see you have but oneleft.T wo gentlemen standing together, as a young ladypassed them, one of them said, there goes the hand¬somest woman ever I saw. She hearing, turnedi1Jback, and observing him to be very ugly, answered1 wish, Sir.I could, in return, say as much of you.So you may, Madam, (says he) and lie as I did.A clergyman, who wished to know whether thechildren oi' the parishioners understood their biblesasked a lad that he one day iound reading the OldTestament, who was the wickedest man ? Moses,to be sure said the boy. Moses, (exclaimed theparson) Moses! how can that be?—Why, (saidthe lad,)he bnoke all the commandmeats at once !I . : • ■ ' ■ 'A little lawyer appearing as evidence in one ofthe courts, was asked by a gigantic counsellor, whatprofession he was of; and having replied, that hewas an attorney. You a lawyer ! (said Brief,) whyI could put you in my pocket. Very likely youmay, (rejoined the other) and if you do, you willhave more law in your pocket than in your head.When Mr Fox was canvassing for Westminsterhe called on a butcher in St James’ market, to so¬licit his vote. The knight of the cleaver, withoutceremony, thus answered his application; Sir, I ad¬mire your head, but damn your heart! to which MrFox replied, Sir, I admire your candour, bat damnyour manners.Charles Fox, in a Westminster election, havingapplied to a shopkeeper for his vote and interest,the man produced a halter, with which he said hewas ready to oblige him. Mr Fox thanked him forhis kindness, but said he would by no means16deprive him of it, as he presumed it was a family-piece.A gentleman who had engaged an Irish footmanin his service, on telling him that morning and eve¬ning prayers were observed in the family, he hopedthat would not be any objection to him. he replied,no, sir, but I hope you will consider it in my wages.An English gentleman observed to Monsieur de iVeine, at Boulogne, that there appeared nothinglike religion among the French people, he replied,nothing at all. We have no religion amongst usnow, but the Convention are about to make ope;then we shall do very well.A minister asking a lady in the neighbourhoodof Norwich, whe'her she knew any thing of Christ?was answered, Yes, Sir, I rememoer that I oncesaw his picture.Lady Huntington once asking a person if sheknew who it was that redeemed her, received foranswer, Yes madam, I know very well who it wasthat redeemed me: it was Pontius Pilate.Once, at a m acting of ministers, a question ofmoment was started to be debatfed among them.Upon the first proposal of it, a confident young manshot his bolt presently. He said, Truly I hold it so.A grave minister answered. Y'ou hold, sir, it be¬comes you to hold your peace.17ivi|, T^o gentlemen, one named Woodcock, and thei other Fuller, walking together, happened to see a»| owl; says the last, That bird is very like a Wood-‘j cock. You're very wrong, says the first, for its Ful-i ler in the head, Fuller in the eyes, a nd Fuller all e-“j ver.At a lafe execution in the old Bfsiley, the hang-l man was blamed for hurrying them. — Och. be aisy!- —says an Irishman, it is mere humanity, for werei they to stand long in the cold they would catch theirij deaths■An Irish servant being struck by his master, cried1 out, Devil take me, if I am certain whether he haskilled me or not, but if lam dead it will afford megreat satisfaction to hear the old rogue was hangedfor killing me.One Irishman meeting another, asked what wasbecome of their old aepuaintance Patrick Murphy ?Arrah my dear honey, answered the other, poorpaddv was condemned to be hanged, but he savedhis lifo by dying in prison.An Irishman being asked which was oldest, he orhis brother, I am oldest, said he ; out if my brotherlives three years longer we shall be both of one ageA person asked an Irishman why he wore hisstockings the wrong side outwards ? Because, saidhe there is a hole on the other side.•s*.18An Irishman in the late General Washington'sarmy, being separated from his companions, r/a*met by five Hessian soldiers, Pat seeing his danger,ordered them to surrender.—They, suspecting himto be bached by numbers, immediately obeyed.Pat shouldered their arms and marched them tothe General's tent, when being asked bow a singleman durst encounter five. O by Jasus. my General,!I surrounded them ! Washington who was seldomseen to'smiie, laughed heartily, and promoted himto a halbert.As an Irish Officer, who was severely wounded atthe battle of Waterloo,.lay on the ground, a foreignsoldier, who was near him, also wounded, made aterrible bowling; when the officer exclaimed. D—nyou sir, what do you make such a noise for, do ycuthink there’s nobody killed but yourself!A learned Scottish lawyer being just called tothe Bench, sent for the peruke-maker to measurehim for a new tye-wig. The peruquier, on apply¬ing his apparatus in one direction, was observed tosmile. Upon v/hich the worthy judge desired to,know what ludicrous circumstance gave rise, to hismirth ? The barber replied, that he could not butremark the extreme length of his honour,s head.Thats well, (said Lord S.) we lawyers have occa¬sion for long heads ! The barber, who by this timehad completed the dimensions, now burst out intoa fit of laughter; and an explanation being insistedon, at last declared, that he could not possiblycontain himself, when he discovered that his Lord¬ship’s head was just as thick as it was long!19A certain Bishop had a Biscayan man-servant,'ft ‘whom he ordered one festival to go to-a butcher,i who was called David, for a piece of meat, and theni come to the church, where the Bishop was to| preach. The Bishop, in his sermon, brir^ authori¬al ties from the Scripture in this manner', Isaiah says'I thus: Jeremiah says thusi at last, happening to:> turn towards the door as his servant came in, wenta on, And what says David ?—Upon which the Bis-| cayan roared out, He swears to God, that if you doI not pay your old biil, you need never send to his1 shop again.I. A charitable Divine, for the benefit of the coun¬try where he resided, caused a causeway to be be¬gun ; and as he was one day overlooking the work¬men, a certain Nobleman passing by, said to him,well, Doctor, for all your pains and charity, I don'ttake this to be the highway to heaven. Very true,replied the Doctor, for if it had, I should havewondered to have seen vdur Lordship here.A dignified Clergyman, going down to spend thesummer, met near his house a comical old chimneysweeper, with whom he used to chat. So, John,says the Doctor, from whence came you ? Fromyour house, says Mr Soot; for this morning I haveswept all your chimnies How many were there ?says the doctor ; No less than twenty, quoth John.Well, and how much a chimney have you? Onlya shilling a-pi;.ce, sir. Why then, quoth the doc¬tor, you have' earned a great deal of money in'alittle time Yes, yes..sir, says John, throwing bisbag of soot over his shoulder, we black coats getso©ur money easy enough.Acountryman going into the office of the Com¬mons where the wills are kept, and gazing on thehuge volurpes on the shelves, asked if these were altbibles ? No, Sir, answered one of the clerks, theyare testanaenta.A countryman, very much marked with the smailipox, applied to a justice of peace for redress in an;affair where one of his neighbours had ill-treatedhim ; but not explaining the business so clearly as;the justice expected, fellow, said he in a rage, Idon’t know whether you were inoculated for thesmall pox or not, but I am sure you have been forstupidity.—Why. ant please you, replied the man.perhaps I might, as you say, be inoculated for stu¬pidity ; but there was no occasion to perform thaton your worship, for you seem to have had it in thenatural way.Two country attornies, overtaking a waggoner onthe road, and thinkine to be witty upon him, asked,why' his fore horse was so fat, and the rest so lean?The waggoner knowing them, answered, that hisfore horse was a lawyer, and the rest were hisclients.An Irishman, a short time since, bade an extra¬ordinary price for an alarm clock, and gave as areason, that, as he loved to rise early, he had nownothing to do but pull the string, and he wouldwake himself.21A countryiran, at Bury Assizes, was indictedand arraigned for stealing a goose ; but the accusa¬tion was false, for he brought a neighbaur of hiswho swore positively, that he remembered that verygoose in his possession ever since it was a gosling.An Irishman, who was a prisoner for stealing a gun,hearing this successful defence, prevailed on a fel¬low countryman of his. to swear that he remember¬ed the gun in his possession ever since it was apistol.When the celebrated beau Nash was ill, Dr.Cheyne wrote a prescription for him. The nextday, the Doctor coming to see his patient, inquiredif he had followed his prescriptioon ? No faith, saidNash, if I had I should have broke my neck, for Ithrew it out of a two pair of stairs’ window.An Irish gentleman was visited by a friend, whofound him a little’ruffled: and being asked the rea¬son of it, said, lie had lost a new pair of black silkstockings out of his room, that had cost him eighteenshillings ; but that he hoped he should get themthem again, for that he had ordered them to becried, and had offered half-a crown of reward. Thegentleman observed, that the i eward was far toolittle for such valuable stockings. Pho, said theIrish gentleman, I ordered the cryer to say theywere w rested.One saying to another, you speak foolishly, heanswered, It is that you may understand me.22A countryman seeing a lady in the street in avery odd dress, as he thought, begged of her totell him what she called it. The lady, a little sur¬prised at the question, called him an impertinentfellow. Nay, I hope no offence, madam, saidHodge, I am a poor countryman, just going out oftown, and my wife always expects I should bringher an account of the newest fashion, which occa¬sioned my inquiring what you call this that youwear.—It it a sack said she, in a great pet. Ihave heard, said the countryman, of a pig in apoke, but I never befor saw a sow in a sack.A soldier being to be sent on the late Spanishexpedition said to the officer directing the drafts,Sir, I cannot go because I—I—stut-ter.—Stutter Isays the officer, you don’t go to talk but to fight.—Ay, but they’ll p-p-put me on g g-guard, and aman may go ha-ha-half a mile, before I can say,wh-who.-who goes there? Oh, that’s no objection,for there will be another sentry placed along withyou, and he can challenge if you can fire.—Well,b-b-but I may be taken, and run through theg g-guts, before I can cry qu-qu-quarter.An Irishman, telling his friend, that passingalong the street, he saw a person on the other side,with whom he thought he was acquainted, said, Icrossed to see him, I thought I knew him, and hethought he knew me; but by Jasus, my honey, itwas neither one nor t’other of us.A preacher in Arabia having for his text a por¬tion of the Koran, I have called Noah ; after twicerepeating his text, made a long pause: an Arab25then present, thinking that he was waiting for ananswer, exclaimed, If Noah will not come, whathinders you from calling somebody else.Two Oxford scholars meeting on the road witha Yorkshire ostler, they fell to bantering him, andtold the fellow that they would prove him to be aherse or an ass. Well, said the ostler, and I canprove your saddle to be a mule :—A mule ! criedone of them, how can that be ?—Because, said theostler, it is something between a horse and an ass.A culprit asked Jack Ketch if he had any com¬mands to the other world. Why. said Jack, notmany ; I’ll only, added he, as he adjusted the knotunder his left ear, just trouble you with a line.A parson in the country, taking his text in St. jMatthew, chap. viii. verse 14. And Peter’s wife’smother lay sick of a fever, preached for three Sun¬days together on the same subject.—Soon aftertwo fellows going across the church yard, and hear¬ing the bell toll, one asked the other, who it wasfor ? Nay, I can’t tell; perhaps, replied he, It isfor Peter’s wife’s mother, for she has been sick ofa fever these three weeks.An Exciseman walking by a river, observed aperson angling: My friend, said he, What are youfishing for ? I am fishing for the Devil, replied theman, but have not got the right bait to catch him.Why, what bait should it be, said the, other. Why,master, I am told the best bait in the world is anExciseman.24A military officer of diminutive stature, *2s dril¬ling a tail Irish recruit. Hold up your head, saidthe officer, elevating l<he chin of the Irishman withthe end of his cane, to an- angle of nearly forty de¬grees, hold up your head so.— And must I alwaysdo so, captain ? asked the recruit. Yes, always,answered the officer. Then fare you well, my dearlittle fellow, rejoined Paddy, tor I shall never seeyou more.An old Irish beggar-man, pretending to be dumbwas thrown off his guard by this question ;—“Prayhow many years have you been dumb ?* To whichhe answered, “ Five years last Christmas, an’tplaise your honour.”An English drummer having been taken prison¬er at the seige of Louisbourgh, the French desiredhim to beat a retreat. “ That I cannot do,” saidhe, “ for it is never beaten in our army ; but youcan teach me.’t$