HISTORY OFJACKTHEGIANT KILLER.CONTAININGHis Birth and Parentage—His meeting with the King’sSon—His noble Conquests over many monstrcus Giants—and, his relieving a beautifiul Lady, whom he after¬wards married; &c.^ ' '}MWJ.dVAJACK AND THE GIANTS.In the reign of King Arthur, near the Lariu's-endof England, in the county of Cornwall, there liveda wealthy farmer, who had one only son, common¬ly known Ly the name of Jack. He was brisk,and of a lively ready wit; so that whatever he couldnot perform by strength, he completed by wit andpolicy. Never was any person heard of that couldworst him ; nay, the learned he baffled by his cun¬ning and ready inventions.For instance, when he was no more than sevenyears of age, his father sent him into the field tolook after his oxen, a country Vicar, by chance, oneday Coming across the field, called Jack, and askedhim several questions; in particular. How manycommandments were there ? Jack told him, therewere nine. The Parson replied, there are ten.Nay, quoth Jack, master Parson, you are out ofthat; it is true there were ten, but you broke oneof them with your own maid Margery. The Per¬son replied, thou art an arch wag, Jack. Well,master Parson quoth Jack, you have asked me onequestion, and I have answered it; let me ask youanother. Who made these oxen ? the Parson re¬plied, God. \ou are out again,’quoth, Jack, forGod made thern bulls, bpt my father and his manHfilw ffiHfle upn of ll.fflu, Tho PfU'mn,ilumself fool’d, trudged away, leaving Jack in a fitof laughter.In those days the mount of Cornwall was kept hya huge and monstrous Giant, of 27 feet high, and 3yards in compass, of a grim countenance, to theterror of all the neighbouring towns. His habita¬tion was a cave in the midst of the mount; neitherwould he suffer any living creature to inhabit nearhim; his feeding was upon other men’s cattle:for whensoever he had occasion for food, he wouldwade over to the main land, where he would fur¬nish himself with whatever he could find. For thepeople at his approach would forsake their habita¬tions ; then he would take their cows and oxen, ofwhich he would make nothing to carr" over on hishack half a dozen at a time; and as for sheep andhogs, he would tie them round his waist. This hehad for many years practised in Cornwal.But one day Jack coming to the town-hall, whenthe Magistrates were sitting in consternation aboutthe Giant; he asked what reward they would g'-^eto any person that would destroy him ? They an¬swered, he shall have all the Giant’s treasure inrecompence. Quoth Jack, then I myself will un¬dertake the work.Jack furnished himself with a horn, a shovel, anda pick-ax, and over to the mount he goes in the be¬ginning of a dark winter evening, where he fell towork, and before morning, bad digged a pit 22 feet;>deep, and as broad, and covered the same over withlong slicks and straw ; then strewed a little mouldupon it, so that it appeared like the plain ground.This done, Jack places himself on the contrary-side of the pit, just about the dawning of the da1-,when putting his horn to his mouth, he then blew.Tj 11 Iwivic, tan twivic. Which unexpected noiseroused the Giant, who came roaring towards Jack,crying out. You incorrigible vidian, are you comehither to break my rest; you shall dearly pay forit; satisfaction I will have, and it shall he this; Iwill take you wholly and broil you for my break¬fast. Which words were no sooner out of hismouth, hut he tumbled headlong into the deep pit,whose heavy fall made the very foundation of themount to shake.Oh ! Giant, where are you now ? Faith you aregot into Lobb’s Pond, where I shall plague youfor your threatening words. What do you thinknow of broiling me for your breakfast? ^Will noother diet serve you hut poor Jack ? Thus havingtantalized the Giant for a while, he gave him amost weighty knock on the crown of his head withhis pick-ax, so that he immediately tumbled down,gave a most dreadful groan, and died. This done.Jack threw the earth in upon him. and so buriedhim ; then going and searching the cave, he founda great quantity of treasure.Now, when the Magistrates who employed him6heard the work was over, they sent for him, declar¬ing that he should henceforth be called Jack theGiant Killer. And in honour thereof, they pre¬sented him with a sword, together with a fine richembroidered belt, on which these words werewrought in letters of goldHere’s the right valiant Cornish man,Who slew the Giant Cormillan.The news of Jack’s victory w'as soon spread ;when another huge Giant named Blunderboar, hear¬ing of it, vowed to he revenged on Jack, if ever itwas his fortune to light upon him. This Giantkept an enchanted castle, situated in the midst ofa lonesome wood : now Jack, about four months af¬ter, walking near the borders of the said wood, onhis journey towards Wales, grew weary, and there¬fore sat himself down by the side of a pleasant foun¬tain, where a deep sleep suddenly seized on him ;at which time, the Giant coming lor water foundhim: andjby the line on his belt knew him to heJack that killed his brother; and without anywords, threw him upon his shoulder, to carry himto his enchanted castle.Now, as they passed through a thicket, the rufflingof the boughs awak’d poor Jack, who finding him¬self in the clutches of the Giant, was strangely sur¬prised ; for at the entering within the first walls ofthe castle, he beheld the ground all covered withhones and sculls of dead men. The Giant tellingJack that his bones would enlarge the number thathe saw. This said, he brought him into a largeparlour, where he beheld the bloody quarters ofsome who were lately slain, and in the next roomwere many hearts and livers, which the Giant, inorder to terrify Jack, to'd him, * That men’s heartsand livers were the choicest of his diet, for he com¬monly ate them with pepper and vinegar, and hedid not question but his heart would make him adainty bit.’ This said, he locks up poor Jack inan upper room, while he went to fetch another Giantliving in the same wood, that he might partake inthe destruction of poor Jack.Now, while he was gone, dreadful shrieks andcries affrighted poor Jack, especially a voice whichcontinually cried.Do what you can to get away.Or you’ll become the Giant’s pray:He’s gone to fetch his brother, whoWill kill and likewise torture you.This dreadful noise so amaz’d poor Jack, he wasready to run distracted ; seeing from the windowafar off the two Giants coming, now, quoth Jackto himself, my death or deliverance is at hand.There were strong cords in the room by him, ofwhich he lakes two, at the end of which he makesa noose, and while the Giant was unlocking thegate, he threw the ropes ovfer each of the heads,and drawing the other end across the beam, be pul-sled vv.ith all his strength, until he had throttledthem ; and then fastening the rope to the beam,turning towards the window, he beheld the twoGiants to be black in their faces. Sliding downby the rope, he came close to their heads, where thehelpless Giants could not defend themselves; anddrawing out his sword, slew them both, and deliver¬ed himself from their intended cruelty ; then takingout a bunch of keys, he unlocked the rooms, where,he found three fair ladies, tied by the hair of theirheads almost starved to death, who told Jack, thattheir husbands were slain by the Giant, and thatthey were kept many days without food, in orderto force them to feed upon the flesh of their hus-bonds.Sweet Ladies, quoth Jack, I have destroyed thismonster, and his brutish brother, by which I haveobtained your liberties. This said, he presentedthem with the keys of the castle, and so proceededon his journey to Wales.Jack, having but very little money, thought itprudent to make the best of his way by travellingas fast as he could, but losing Ids road, was be¬nighted, and could notget a place of entertainment,until he came to a valley placed between two hills,where stood a large house in a lonesome place. Hetook courage to knock at the gate, and to his greatsurprise, there came forth a monstrous Giant, hav¬ing two heads; yet he did not seem so fiery as theothers had been, for he was a Welch Giant, andwhat he did was by secret malice, for Jack tellinghis condition, he hid him welcome, shewing him aroom with a bed in it, whereon he might take hisnight’s repose; therefore Jack undressed himself,and as the Giant was walking to another apart¬ment, Jack heard him mutter forth these words tohimself.Though here you lodge with me this night, |You shall not see the morning light;My club shall dash your brains out quite. .*Sayest thou so, quoth Jack; this is like yourWelch tricks, yet I hope to be cunning enoughfor you. Then getting out of bed he put a billetin his stead, and hid himself in a corner of theroom; and in the dead time of the night, theWelch giant came with his great knotty club, andstruck several heavy blows upon the head whereJack had laid the billet, and then returned to hisown chamber, supposing he had broke all the bonesin his body.In the morning Jack gave him hearty thanksfor his lodging. The Giant said to him. How haveyou rested? Did you not feel something in thenight? Nothing quoth Jack, but a rat which gaveme three or four slaps with her tail. Soon afterthe Giant arose and went to breakfast with a bow!of hasty pudding, containing nearly four gallons,giving Jack the like quantity; who being loath to10let the Giant know he con hi not eat with him, gotit large leathern hag, potting it very artfully underhis loose coat, into which he secretly conveyed hispudding, telling the Giant he could shew him atrick; then taking a large knife, he ripped openthe bag, which the Giant supposed to he his belly,when out came the hasty pudden ; at which theWelch Giant cried, Cotsplut, hur can do dat trickhurself. Then taking his sharp knife, he rippedup his own belly, from the bottom to the top, andout dropped his tripes and trolly bags, so that hurfell down for dead ; thus Jack outwitted the Giant,and proceeded on his journey.About this time King Arthur’s son only desiredof his father to furnish him with a certain sum ofmoney, that he might go and seek his fortune inWales, where a beautiful lady lived, whom he heardwas possessed with seven evil spirits ; hut the Kinghis father, advised him utterly against it, yet hewould not he persuaded of it; so he granted whathe requested, which was one horse loaded withmoney, and another for himself to ride on ; thus hewent forth without any attendants,. Now, after several days travel, he came to umarket town in Wales, where he beheld a largeconcourse of people gathered together ; the King’sson demanded the reason of it, and was told thatthey had arrested a corpe for many large sums ofmonev which the deceased owed when he died.11The King s §un replug, ‘ It is a pity dial cfeditufiblunlcl be so cruel; go bury the dead, and let juscreditors come to my lodging, and their debts shallbe discharged. Accordingly they caifie in greatnumbers, so that he left himself moneyless.Now, Jack the Giant Killer being there, andseeing the generosity of the King’s son, he wastaken with him, and desired to be his servant; itwas agreed upon the next morning, when riding outat the town-end, the King’s son turning to Jack,said, I cannot tell how I will subsist in my intendedjourney. For that, quoth Jack, take you no care,let pie alone, 1 warrant yon we will not want.Now Jack, having a spell in his pocket, whichserved at noon for a refreshment, when done, theyhad not one penny left betwixt them , the afternoonlimy spent in travel and discourse, till the sun be^gan to grow low, at which time the King's son said.Jack, since we have no money where can we thinkto lodge this night ? Jack replied, we ll do wellenough, for I have an unde living within two milesof this, he is a monstrous Giant with three heads;he will fight 500 men in armour, and make themto fly before him. Alas ! saith the King’s son,what shall we do there ; he will certainly chop usboth up at one mouthful! it is no matter for that,quoth Jack, I will go before and prepare the wayfor you : tarry here.He waits, and Jack rides full speed, when he12eame to the castle, lie knocked with such a force,that he made all the neighbouring hills to resound.The Giant, with a voice like thunder, roared out,Who’s there? He answered, none but your owncousin, Jack; Dear uncle, heavy news, God wot.Prithee, what heavy news can come to me ? I ama Giant with three heads, and besides thou know-est I can fight 500 hundred men O ! but, quothJack, here’s the King’s sou coming with 1000 mento kill you; Oh ! Jack, this is heavy news indeed;I have a large vault under ground, where I willhide myself, and thou shalt lock, holt, and bar mein, and keep the keys till the King’s son is gone.Jack having secured the Giant, he returned andfetched his master, they were both heartily merrywith the wine, and other dainties which were inthe house ; so that night they rested in very pleasantlodgings, whilst the poor uncle the Giant lay trem¬bling in the vault under ground.Early in the morning Jack furnished his masterwith a supply of gold and silver, and set him threemiles forward on his journey, concluding he wasthen pretty well out of the smell of the Giant, andthen returned to let his uncle out of the hole; whoasked Jack what he would give him in reward, sincehis castle was not demolished? Why,quoth Jack, Idesire nothing but the old Coat and Cap, togetherwith the old rusty sword and Slippers which aieat your hed-head? Jack, thou shall have them,aud pray keep them for my sake, for they are dungsof excellent use : The Coat will keep you invisible,the Cap will furnish you with knowledge, the Swordcuts asunder whatever you strike, and the Shoesare of extraordinary swiftness, these may be ser¬viceable to you, and therefore pray take them withad my heart: Jack takes them., thanking his uncle,and follows his master.Jack having overtaken his master, soon after ar¬rived at the lady’s house, who finding the king’sson to be a suitor prepared a banquet for him, andbeing ended, she wiped his mouth with her napkinsaying, you must shew this to-morrow or else loseyour head, aud she put it safely into her bosom.The king’s son went to bed sorrowful, hut Jack’sCap ol knowledge instructed him how to obtain it.In the middle of the night she called upon her fa¬miliar spirit to carry her to Lucifer. Jack put onhis Coat of darkness, with his Shoes of swiftness,and was there as soon as her, by reason of his coatthey could not see him. When she entered theplace, she gave the handkerchief to old Lucifer, wholaid it carefully upon a shelf; from whence Jackbrought it to his master, who shewed it to the Ladythe next day.The next night she saluted the King’s son, tel¬ling him, he must shew her to-morrow morning thelips that site kissed last this night, or lose his head.Ah, replied he, if you kiss none hut mine I will.14h is neither here nor there, said she, ii’j’tnido nyt,death’s your portion. At midnight, she wont asbefore, and was angry with Lucifer for letting thehandkerchief go. But now, said she, 1 will be toohard for the king’s son, lor I will kiss thea, and he'sto shew thy lips. Jack standing near him with hissword of sharpness, cut oJf the devil’s head, andbrought it under his invisible coat to bis master,who was in bed, and laid it at the end of his bolster.In the morning when the Lady came up, he pulledit out by the horns, and shewed her the devil’s lips,which she kissed last.Thus, having answered her twice, the enchant-memt broke, and the evil spirits left her; at whichtime she appeared a beautiful and virtuous creature.They were married next morning in great pompand solemnity, and returned with a numerous com¬pany to the court of King Arthur, where they werereceived with the greatest joy, and loud acclama¬tions. Jack, for the many and great exploits hehad done for the good of his country, was madeone of the Knights of the Round Table.Jack having resolved not to be idle humbly re¬quested of the King, to fit him with a horse andmoney, to travel, for, said he, there are many Giantsalive in the remotest parts of the kingdom, to theunspeakable damage of your Majesty liege subjects;wherefore, may it please }our Majesty to give meencouragement, to rid the realm of these cruel and15devouring monsters of nature, root and branch.Now when the King had heard these noble pro¬positions, and had duly considered the mischievouspractices of these bloody-thirsty Giants, he immed¬iately granted what Jack requested: and being fur¬nished with all necessaries for his progress, he tookhis leave of King Arthur, taking with him the Capof knowledge, Sword of sharpness. Shoes of swift¬ness, and likewise the invisible Coat, the better toperfect and complete the dangerous enterprizes thatlay before him.Jack travelled over vast hills and mountains,when at the end of three days, he came to a largeand spacious wood, where on a sudden, he hearddreadful shrieks and cries, whereupon, casting hiseyes around he beheld a Giant rushing along witha worthy Knight and his fair Lady, whom he heldbv the hair of their heads in his hands, wherefore,*•he alighted from off his horse, and then putting onhis invisible Coat, under which he carried his Swordof sharpness, he came up to the Giant, and thoughhe made several passes at him, yet he could notreach the trunk of his body, by reason of his height,though it wounded his thighs in several places; butat length giving him a swinging stroke, he cut offboth his legs, just below the knee, so that the trunkof his body made the ground to shake with the forceof his fall, at which, the Knight and the Lady es¬caped, then had Jack time to talk with him, and set-ting his foot upon his neck, said. You savage andbarbarous wretch, I am come to execute upon youthe just reward of your villainy. And with thatrunning him through and through, the monster sentforth a hideous groan, and yielded up his life whilethe noble Knight and virtuous Lady, were joyfulspectators of his ;udden downfal, and their own de¬liverance.This being done, the courteous Knight and hisfair Lady returned him hearty thanks for their de¬liverance, but also invited him home, there to re¬fresh himself after the dreadful encounter, as like¬wise to receive ample reward, by way of gratitudefor his good service. No, quoth Jack, I cannot beat ease till, I find out the den, which was this mon¬ster’s habitation. The Knight hearing this, waxedsorrowful, and replied, noble stranger, it is too muchto run a second risk, for this monster lived in a denunder you mountain, with a brother of his, morefierce than himself; therefore, if you go thither andperish in the attempt, it would he the heartbreak¬ing of both me and my lady ; let me persuade youto go with us, Nay, quoth Jack, if there were twen¬ty, I would shed the last drop of my blood, beforeone of them should escape my fury, hut when Ihave finished this task, I will came and pay my re¬spects to you. So taking directions to their habit¬ation, he mounted his horse, and went in pursuit olthe deceased Giant’s brother.ITJack had not rode past a mile before he came Insight of the cave’s month, at llie entrance of which,he beheld the other Giant sitting upon a huge blockof timber, with a knotty iron club by his side, wait¬ing for his brother’s return with his cruel prey;bis gogle eyes appeared like terrible flames of fire,his countenance grim and ugly, and his cheeks ap¬peared like a couple of large flitches of bacon ; thebristles of his head seemed to resemble rods of ironwire; his locks hung down on his broad shoulders,like curled snakes. •.Jack alighted from his horse, and put him intoa thicket; then with his coat of darkness he camenear to behold his figure, and said, Oh ! are yonthere ? it will not be long before I take you by theheard. The Giant could not see him by reason ofhis invisible Coat; so Jack fetching a blow at hishead with his Sword of sharpness, and missingsomewhat of his aim, cut off the Giant’s nose;whose nostrils were wider than a pair of jack-hoots,the pain was terrible, he put up his hand to feel forhis nose, and when he could not find it he ravedand roared louder than thunder; and though heturned up his large eyes, he could not see fromwhence the blow came, nevertheless he took up hisiron headed club and began to thrash about himike one staik mad. Nay, quoth Jack, if you fiefor that sport, then I will dispatch you quickly, forfear ofan accidental blow. Then Jack makes no more8fo do, but runs his sword up to the hilt in theGiant’s fundament, where he left it sticking lur awhile, and stood himself laughing, to see the Giantcaper and dance with the sword in his arse, cryingout, He should die, with the grippingof his guts.Thus did the Giant continue raving for an hour ormore, and at length fell down dead.This being done. Jack cut off both the Giants’heads, and sent them to King Arthur by a wag¬goner, whom he hired for the purposeJack having dispatched these twro monsters, re¬solved to enter the cave in search of the Giant’streasure: he passed through many turnings andwindings, which led him at length to a room pavedwith free stone, at the upper end of which was aboiling caldron ; on the right hand stood a largetable, where the Giants used to dine, then he cameto an iron gate, where was a window secured withbars of iron, through which he looked, and behelda vast many captives, who seeing Jack, said, youngman art thou come to be one among us in this miser¬able den ? Ay, quoth Jack, I hope I shall not tarrylong here ; but what is the meaning af your cap¬tivity ? Why, said one of them, we have been ta¬ken by the Giants, and here we are kept till theyhave a feast, then the fattest among us is slaugh¬tered for their devouring jaws: it is not long sincethey took three of us for the purpose ? Say you soquoth Jack, well I have given them both such a19dinner, that it will be long enough ere they needany more. You may believe me, for I have slainthem both, and as for their monstrous heads, 1 sentthem to the court of king Arthur, as trophies of myvictory. Then leading them to the aforesaid room,he placed them round the table, and set before themtwo quarters of beaf, also bread and wine, so thatthey feasted there very plentifully. Supper beingended, they searched the Giant’s coffers, where find¬ing a vast store of gold. Jack divided it equallyamong them ; they all returned him hearty thanksfor their treasure and miraculous deliverance. Thatnight they went to their rest, and in the morningthey arose and departed, to their respective placesT abode, and Jack to the Knight’s house.Jack mounted his horse and hy his direction hecame to the Knight’s house, where he was receivedwith all demonstrations of joy, by the Knight andhis Lady, who in respect to Jack, prepared a feast,which lasted for many days, inviting all the gentryin the adjacent parts. He presented him with aring of gold on which was engraven hy curious art,the picture of the Giant dragging a distressed Knightand his fair Lady by the hair of the head.Now, there were five aged gentlemen who werelathers to some of those miserable captives whomJack had set at liberty ; who immediately paid himtheir venerehle respects. And the smiling howl'20victorious conqueror, but during their mirth, a darkrloiul appeared, which daunted the assembly.A.messenger brought the dismal tidings of tneapproach of one Thunderful, a huge Giant with twoheads ; who having heard of the death of his kins¬men, the above-named Giants, was come in searchof Jack, to be revenged on him for their terribledownfal, and was within a mile of the Knight’s seat,the people Hying before him from their habitations.When they had related this, Jack said, let him come,I am prepared with a tool to pick his teeth, and yougentlemen and ladies walk forth into the garden,and yon shall be the joyful spectators of this mon¬strous Giant’s death. To which they consented,wishing him good fortune in that great enterprize.The situation of the Knight’s house, was in asmall island encompassed with a vast Moat thir¬ty feel deep, and twenty feet wide, over whichlay a braw-bridge. Wherefore Jack employed twomen to cut it on both sides, and then dressing him¬self in his Coat of darkness, putting on his Shoesof swiftness, he marched against the Giant, withbis Sword of sharpness ready drawn ; when he camecloss up, the Giant could not see Jack, by reasonof his invisible Coat, nevertheless he was sensibleof approaching danger, which majle him cry out.Fe, FI, Fo, Fum. I smell the blood of an Eng¬lishman, Be he living, or be he dead, 1,}1 nrind hisbones to mix mg bread.21Sayest thou so, quotli .Tank, then thou art amonstrous miller. But how if I serve thee as I didthe two Giants of late, I should spoil your practicefor the future. At which time the Giant spokewith a voice as loud as thunder ; art thou that villainwhich destroyed my kinsmen : Then I will tear theewith my teeth, and suck thy blood, I will grindthy bones to powder. Catch me first, quoth Jack,and he threw offhis Coat of darkness that the Giantmight see him, and then ran from him as throughfear. The Giant with glaring eyes, following afterlike a walking castle, making the earth to shake atevery step, J ack led him a dance three or four timesround the moat, that the ladies and gentlemen mighttake a full view of this huge monster who followedJack, but could not overtake him by reason of hisShoes of swiftness. At length Jack, took over thebridge, the Giant with full speed pursuing after him,with his iron club but coming to the middle of thedraw-bridge, the weight of his body, and the mostdreadful steps which he took, it broke down, andhe tumbled into the water, where he rolled andwallowed like a whale. Jack standing at the sideof the moat laughed at the Giant, and said, youwould grind my bones to powder ; you have waterpray where is your mill ? The Giant foamed to hearhim scoffing at that rate, though he plunged fromplace to place in the moat. Jack a length got a cattpope, and cast it oyer the Giant’s twohpads, with a2‘2slip knot, and by tbe help ot lioi’ses lie dragged himout again, nearby strangled, before he would lethim loose, he cut oft-both his heads with his swordof sharpness, in the view of all the assembly ofknights, and ladies, who gave a shout when theysaw the Giant dispatched. Then before he wouldeither Oat or drink, he sent these heads also to thecourt of King Arthur.After some mirth and pastime. Jack taking leaveof the noble Knights and ladies, set oft'in search ofnew adventures, through many woods and groveshe passed, till coming to the foot of a high mountainlate at night, he knocked at the door of a lonesomehouse, at which a man with a head as white as snow,arose and let him in. Father, said Jack, have youany entertainment for a benighted traveller that haslost his way ? Yes, Said the old man, if thou Wiltaccept of such as my poor cottage afford, thou shalthe Welcome. Jack returned him thanks, they feattogether, and the old man began to discourse as fol¬lows, “ Son, I am sensible thou art the great cott-ijueror of Giants, and it is in thy power to fVee thisplace; for, there is an enchanted castle, kept by amonstrous Giant, named Galligaittus, who, by thehelp of a conjuror, betrays Knights and ladies intothis strong castle, where, by magic art, they aretransformed into sundry shapes, but above all, Ilament the misfortune of » Duke’s daughter, whomfafoM iVnrn IfoF bdlmr'? garden, carrying )tfyi23through tile air in a char ion drawn by fiery dragons,she was immediately Ixacsformed into the shape ofa White Hind, many Knights have endeavouredto break the enchantment lor her deliverance, yetnone could accomplish it, by reason of two Griffins,who are at the entrance of tie sastlegate, who des¬troys them as they see them ; ftut you, being fur¬nished with an invisible Coat, "nay pass them un¬discovered i where, on the gates of the castle, youwill find engraven in characters, the means the en-vhantment may be broken.Jack gave him bis hand, with a promise, that in(he morning he would break the enchantment, andfree the lady.Having refreshed themselves with a morsel ofmeat, they laid down to rest, in the morning Jackarose, and put on his invisible Coat, his Cap ofknowledge, and Shoes of swiftness and so preparedhimself for the dangerous enterprize.Now when he had ascended the mountain, hediscovered the two fiery Griffins ; he passed betweenthem for they could not see him by reason of his in¬visible Coat. When he had got beyond them, hefound upon the gate a golden trumpet, hung in achain of fine silver, under which were engraven ;Whoever sha/l this trumpet blow,Shall soon the Giant overthrow,And break the black enchantment sfraiqht^ftp pH Mat l kt In hHJipy A file.24Jnck had no sooner read this inscription, but hablew the trumpet, at which the foundation of thecastle trembled, and the Giant with the Conjuror,were tearing their hair, knowing their wicked reignwas at end. At which time the Giant was stoopingto take up his club, Jack atone blow with his Swordof sharpness, cut off his head. The Conjurormounted into the air, and was carried away by awhirlwind. Thus was the enchantment broken,and every Knight and Lady, who had been trans¬formed into birds and beasts, returned to their pro¬per shapes, and the castle, though it seemed to beof a vast strength and bigness, vanished away likea cloud; whereon universal joy appeared among-thereleased Knights and Ladies. This being done,the head of Galligantus was conveyed to the court< f King Arthur, the next day, having refreshed theKnights and Ladies at the old man’s hahita'tation,Jack set forward to the court of King Arthur, vriththose Knights and Ladies whom he delivered.Coming to his Majesty, his fame rung throughthe court; and as a reward of Ids services, theduke bestowed his daughter in marriage to Jack.The whole kingdom was tilled with joy at the wed¬ding. After which the King bestowed upon him anoble house, with a large estate, where he and hisLady passed their days in great joy and happiness.FINIS.