'imammmiNmtigmaiix <ro mjat a.TflAHH M3X0R8;^ ZAimiT a^IHT :ihtto taaoixarai siit oka.g^kjJATOT-33'f OWTBROKEN HEART.DEFEAT OF PliINCE CHARLES.Early in the Notember of 17.45, the news reaclie lCambridge that Charles Stuart, at the head of hi?hardy and loyal Highlanders, had crossed the Bor¬ders, and. taken possession of Carlisle. The inhabi¬tants gazed upon e&eh other with terror, for theswords of the clansmen had triumphed over allopposition ; they were regarded, , also, by the multi¬tude as savages, and by the more ignorant ascannibals.. But there were others who rejoiced inthe success of the'young Adventurer, and who,dangerous as it was to confess their joy, took butsmall pains to,conceal it. Amongst that numberwas James Dawson, .the sou of a wealthy gentlemanin the north of Lancashire, and then a student atSt. John’s College. That night he invited a partyof friends to sup with him, who held sentimentssimilar to his own. The cloth was withdrawn, andhe rose and gave, as the. toast of the evening—“ Prince Charles, and success to hm l, ” His guestsfired, with his own enthusiasm, rpse and receivedthe toast with cheers. The hotjble went round—theyoung men drank deep, and other .t^sts of a like4nature followed. The song succeeded the toast,and James Dawson sang the following, whichseemed to be the composition of the day:—“ Free o’er the borders, the tartan is streaming,The dirlj is aid the playmbreil gleai&hg, fThe prince and ins clansmen in triumph advance,"Nor needs he the long-promised succours from France.From the Cumberland mountains, and Westmoreland fake,Bach brave man shall snatch up Kis sword for his sake ;And the Lancashi^p Witch on her bosom shall wearThe snow-white cockade, by her lover placed there.”But \^iilc he yet sang, and as he completed butthe first verse, two constables and three soldiersburst into the room, and denounced them as traitorsand as their prisoners.“ Down with them!” exclaimed James Daw,sonspringing forward, and snatching' down a swordwhich was hanging over the fire-place. Thestudents vigorously resisted the attempt to make ;them prisoners, and several of them," with James,(^scaped.HO concealed himOelf for a short time, when, hishorse ‘being brought,' he toOfc the road towardsManchester, in order to johi the1 Pretender. ■ Itwas abotit midnight,' on the 29th, When he reachedthe toim which is now the emporium of the manu¬facturing world. /proceeding''down Mai'tet-stroot, he perceived a fconfnsect'orowd, seme utter¬ing threats, and/OtHeWwith'eonSteriialion expressedon their countenances; and, in the midst of'-themultitude, wiis Sergeant Dickson, a yotifig' woman,and a'drummer bdy; beatin'g'up for recrliit^.'(fThewhite eoekade'streariiing from the hat of the;’Ser¬geant'; the people vented their indrgtmtidh aga'iiisthirn',:blrf no: man !dUrst'sei^O hirii," forihi-thrinMriSikidrUM<¥bfiii‘d,' itith’ a bliinderiJU^s' ik'diis’ htfrid, ,faekig^t^e Crowd oni'alI‘rideg,''Wid(lthl!1eatriiii%)!te._ 45shoot the first man that approached, -who was notready to serve the Prince, and mount the whitecockade. The young woman carried a supply ofthe ribbons in her hand, and ever and anon wavedthem in triumph, crying—“Charlie yet!” Somedozen recruits already followed at the heels of thesergeant. James Dawson spurred his horse throughthe multitude.“Give me one of yrfur favours,” said he,addressing the sergeant.“ Ay, a dozen, your honour, replied Dickson.”He received the ribbon and tied it to his breast,and placed another at his0horse’s head. His con¬duct had an. effect upon the multitude; numbersflocked around the sergeant, his favours becameexhausted; and when the Prince and the armyentered the town in the evening, he broilght beforehim an hundred and eighty men, which he hadthat day enlisted.The little band so raised were formed into whatwas called the Manchester regimerit, of whichgallant Townly was made Colonel, and JamesDawson one of the Captains.Our business at present is not with the move¬ments of Charles Edward, nor need we describehis daring march towards Derby, which struckterror throughout all England, and for a timeseemed to shake the throne and its' dynasty ; nordwell upon the particulars of his masterly retreattowards Scotland—suffice it tg say, that on the 19thof December, the Highland army again enteredCarlisle.On the following morning they evacuated it;but the Manchester regiment, which was now com¬posed of about three hundred men, was left as agarrison, t6 defend the town, against the entirearmy of the proud Cumberland. They were de¬voted as a sacrifice, that the Prince and the main6anuy might be saved. The brave Townly, and;tiie. young and gallant Dawson were not ignorant ofthe desperateness and hopelessness of their situa¬tion ; but they strove to impart their own heroismto the garrison, and to defend the town to the last.On the morning of the 21st, the entire army of theDuke of Cumberland arrived before Carlisle, andtook possession of the fortifications that commanded Iit. He commanded the garrison to surrender, and •they answered him oy a discharge of musquetry. ,They had withstood a siege of ten days, duringwhich time, Cumberland had erected batteries, andgot cannon from Whitehaven ; before their fire thedecaying and neglected walls of the city gave way ; fto hold out- another day was impossible, and there !was no resource left for the devoted band but tosurrender or perish. On the 30th, a white flag fwas hoisted on the ramparts. On its being per¬ceived, the cannon ceased to play upon the town,and a message was sent to the Duke to enquire what 1terms he would grant to the garrison.“ Tell them,” he replied haughtily, “ I offer no Iterms but these, that they will not be put to the |sword, but shall be reserved for his Majesty to deal 1with them as he may think proper.”There was no alternative, and these doubtful 'and evasive terms were accepted. The garrisonwere disarmed, and under a heavy guard placed inthe cathedral.James Dawson and seventeen others were con¬veyed to London, and cast into prison, to wait thewill of his Majesty. Till now his parents wereignorant of the fate of their son, though they hadheard of his being forced to flee from the university,and feared that he had joined the Prince. Toosoon their worst fears were realised, and the truthrevealed to them. But there was another who,trembled for him, whose heart felt keenly as aUjnt’s—slic who was to be his wife, to whom hisaid was plighted, and his heart given. Fannyister was a young and gentle being, and she hadown James Dawson from her childhood. Know-ige ripened to affection, and their hearts wereined together. On the day on which she cameknow of his imprisonment, she hastened toi*ixdon to comfort him—to cheer his gloomy soli-de—at the foot of the throne to sue for hisirdon.She arrived at the metropolis—she was guided toe prison-house, and admitted. On entering theoomy apartment in which he was confined, shereamed aloud—she raised her hands, and spring-g forward, fell upon his neck and wept,f My own Fanny!” he exclaimed, “you here!—efip not my sweet one—come, be comforted—•iqre is hope—every hope—I shall not die—myvii, be comforted.”“ Yes !—yes there is hope, the King will pardonii,” she exclaimed, “he will spare my James—Idl implore your life at his feet.”Nay, nay love, say not the King,” interruptedie young enthusiast for the house of Stuart; “itill be but imprisonment till all is over—the Elec-r cannot seek my life.”He strove long and earnestly to persuade herlat his life was not in danger—that he would be■ved—and what he wished, she believed. Theilor entered and informed them that it was timele should depart, and again sinking her headxm his breast, she wept, “good night.”But each day she revisited him, and they spoke' :his deliverance together. At times too she tolditn with tears of the efforts she had made to ob-in his pardon—of her attempts to gain admissionthe presence of the King—of the repulses shewith—of her applications to the nobility con-i  8nected with the court—of the insult and inhunyfitj she met with from some—the compassion _siexperienced from others—the interest they took Ihis fate, and the hopes and promises which th«held out. Upon those hopes and promises skfondlj dwelt. She looked into his eyes to perceUthe hope they kindled there, and as joy beamofrom them, she half forgot that his life, hung upothe word of a man.But his parents came to visit him; hert: folo wed her, and they joined, their efforts to: hcrS, ananxiously, daily, almost hourly, they (Sxefted ‘theenergies to obtain his pardon. His father possesstan influence in electioneering matters in Lane;shire, an !:ers could exercise the same in an atjoining'county. That influence was urged—tl:members they supported Were importuned. Thpromised to 'employ their best exertions. WhatevTthe feelings or principles of the elder Dawson miglbe, he had never avowed disaffection openly—he hanever evinced a leaning, to the family of Stuari,he had supported the government of the day; anthe Father of Fanny Was an upholder of the house cHanover. The influence of their relatives^ and atheir friends were brought into action; .peers ancommoners were supplicated; and they pledged theiintercession. Men high in office took an interest i;the fate of James Dawson, of professed to; take itpromises, half official, were held out, and when hiyouth, the short time that he had engaged in threbellion, and the situation he held in the army cthe Adventurer were considered, no . one doubts;but that his pardon was certain—that lie would ncbe brought to trial., Even his parents felt assure!—but the word of the King was not passed.They began to look forward to the day Of mdeliverance with impatience, but' still with ceftainty. There was but one heart that feared, amit throbbed iu the,keart of poor Fanny. .SJ^e would*start from her sl^ep, crying—“ Save him !—savehim!” as she fancied slip beheld them dragginghim to execution. In order to soothe lier^hej- pa¬rents and his, in the confidence that pal-don would'hbe extended to,.him, agreed that the day of hisS liberation should be the day of their bridal. Sheknew their affection, and her heart struggled withher fears to believe the “ flattering tale.”James tried also to cheer her—he believed thathis life would be spared—he endeavoured to smileand be happy.“Fear not my Fanny, he would say ; yourdoubts are idle. The Elector” -And here ,his father would interfere, “ Speak notI so, my son*” said the old man earnestly, “ speaknot against princes in your bedchamber, for a birdof the air can carry the tidings. Your Hfe is in; the hands of a King—of a merciful one—and it is1 safe —only speak not thus—-do not, as you love mei1—as you love our Fanny, do not.”i Then would ;tbey chase away her, fears,, andspeak of the intended bridal; and Fanny wouldsmile pensively while James held her hand in his,and, as he gazed on her finger, he raised it to hislips, as though he took the measure of the ring.But ‘ hope deferred makes the heart sick andthough they still were confident that he would bepardoued,—yet their anxiety increased, and Fanny’sheart seemed unable longer to contain its agonyand suspense. Six months had passed, but still no[pardon came for James Dawson. The fury of the,<;ivil war was spent—the royal Adventurer : hadescaped—the vengeance of, the., sword was satisfied,and the law of the conquerors, and the scaffolds ofthe law, called for. the blood of those whom thesword. had saved. The soldier laid down hisweapon, and the executionerjtook up his. ; On theleaders of tlie Manchester regiment the vengeanceof the blood-thirsty law first fell. It was on theevening of the 14th of July, 1746, James Dawsonsat in his prison, Fanny sat by his side, with herhand in his, and his parents were present also, when ■the jailor entered, and ordered him to prepare tehold himself ready for his trial, in the court-houseat St Margaret’s, Southwark, on the following day.His father groaned—his mother exclaimed, “ myson! ”—but Fanny sat motionless. No tear was inher eye—no muscle in her countenance moved.Her fingers grasped his with a firmer pressure—bpt she evinced no other symptom of having heardthe mandate that was delivered. They rose to de¬part, and a low deep sigh issued from her bosom ;but she showed no sign of violent grief—her feef-ings were already exhausted—her heart could bearno more.On the following day, eighteen victims, with thegallant Townly a't their head, were brought forthfor trial, before a grand jury; Amongst them, andas one of the chief, was James Dawson. Fannyhad insisted on being present. She heard the wordguilty pronounced with a yet deeper apathy thanshe had evinced at the announcement of his trial.She folded her hands on her bosom, her lips movedin prayer, but she shed not a single tear, norbreathed a single sigh. She arose, and beckonedto her attendants, who accompanied her from theeourt-hou^e.Still his friends entertained the hope that tinPardon Power might be moved—they redoublettheir exertions—they increased their importunity—they were willing to make any sacrifice that firlife might be but saved—and even then, at tl:>eleventh hour, they hoped against hope, but Fain/yielded not to vain thoughts. Day after day sbsat by her lover’s side, and she, in her turn, b-11came his comforter. She no longer spoke of their^ ,bridal—but she spoke of eternity ; she spoke of Jtheir meeting where the ambition, the rivalry, andthe power of princes should be able to cast no cloudover the happiness 6f the soul.Fourteen days had passed, and during that hehad showed no sign of fear ; she evinced none* of awoman’s weakness. She seemed to have masteredher grief, and her soul was prepared to meet them.Yet, save only when she spoke to him, her soulappeared entranced, jand her body lifeless. On tire29th duly, an order was brought for the executionof the victims on the following day. James Dawsonbowed his head to the officer who delivered thewarrant, and calmly answered-^'1 I am prepared!”The. cries of the mother rang through the prison.She tore her hair—she sank upon the floor, sheentreated Heaven to spare her child. His fathergroaned, he held the hand of his son in his, andtears gushed down his furrowed cheeks. Fannyalone was silent, she alone was tranquil. No throeof agony swelled her bosom, flushed in her counte¬nance, or burned in her eye. She was calm,speechless, resigned. He pressed her to his heart,and took a last farewell.“Adieu! adieu!—my own,” he cried—“myFanny, farewell, an eternal farewell!”“ Nay, nay,” she replied, “ not eternal, we shallmeet again. ’Tis a short farewell, I feel it—I feelit. Adieu love,—adieu ! Die firmly. We shallmeet soon.” *Next morning the prisoners were to be draggedon sledges to Kensington Common, which was tobe the place of execution. In the first sledge wasthe executioner, sitting over his fettered victimswith a drawn sword in his hand. No priest—nominister of religion attended them; and around *the sledges followed thousands, some few expressing dj12sympathy, but the majority following from curiosity,and others venting their execrations against alltraitors. In the midst of the multitude was ahackney coach, following the sledges, and in it wasthe gentle Fanny Lester,, accompanied by a relativeand a female friend. They had endeavoured topersuade her from the fearful trial, but slie wascalm, resolute, and not to be moved, and theyyielded to her wish. The coach drew up withinthirty yards of the scaffold. Fanny pulled downthe window, and leaning over it, she beheld thepile of faggots lighted round the scaffold ; she sawthe flames rise, and the soldiers form a circle roundthem. She saw the.victims leave the sledges;; shelooked upon . him whom her heart loved, as hemounted the place of death, and.his step was firm,his countenance unmoved. She saw him join inprayer with his companions, and hej} eyes werefixed on him a&he flung, papers and his hat amongthe multitude. She saw the fatal signal given,and the drop fall ; she heard the horrid shojlt thatburst, from the multitude, but not a muscle of herframe moved. She ga,zed cahnly, as, though it hadbeen on a bridal ceremony. She beheld the exe¬cutioner begin the barbarities which the lawawanls to treason ; the clotlies were torn from thevictims, one by one they were cut down, and thefinisher of the law, with the hon'id knife in hishand, proceeded to lay open their bpsohis, and tak¬ing out their hearts, flung them on the -faggots thatblazed around the* scaffold. The last spectacle ofbarbarity was James Dawson ; and when the exe¬cutioner had plunged the knife in his breast, heraised his heart in his hand, and holding it amoment before the horror-stricken and disgustedmultitude, ho. cast it into the fire, exclaiming, asflung it from him—“God save King George!”anny saw this—her eyes became blind-—she heardnot the shout of the multitude—she drew back herhead into the coach—it dropped on the shoulder ofher companion, “My dear! I follow thee! I followthee!” she exclaimed, clasping her hands together—“sweet Jesus! receive both our souls!” Theyattempted to raise her head, to support her in theirarms, but she sunk back lifeless; her spirit hadaccompanied him it loved; she died of stifledagony and a broken heart. ^THE ADVENTURESTWO ^EE-TOTALLEES.A shout time ago, a couple in town, who indulgedtoo freely in the use of spirits, became sensible ofthe miseries which their favourite beverage en¬tailed on them. One night when the husbandcame home drunk, his wife said to him, “ Johnny,ye maun gi’e o’er this drinking, or well be ruineda’ thegither, ye mann join the tee-totallers.’’“Will ye join wi’ me Jenny?” “Deed will I.”“ Come awa’ then, and well strike the airn whileit’s het.” Off they went and joined the tee-totallers,and their affairs began to mend. But the new-yearcame, and Jenny proposed that they should have awee drap in the house—no for themsel’s, but for“ony frien’ that might drap in.” “ Are ye garnito break through, Jenny?” “Only for a wee.”“ Aweel lass, Use join ye.” Off they went to¬gether, with a child in the wife’s arms, to lay intheir new-years stock. As a little bit of reward athaving kept their vows so well, and sticking totheir resolution, they partook of a few gills to¬gether ; and by the time they arose to go homethe pavement was rather narrow for them. Besidesthe wee drappie for the use of chance callers, onecarried two stones of meal, the other the child, and15these burdens tliey exchanged occasionally on theway home, it being deemed advisable, that the onewho walked the most steadily should carry therhild. On their arrival at home they did not seemcertain what change, had last been made ; and thehusband deposited bis burden in the cradle, whilethe wife locked her one up in the press. By andby the child began to cry, the wife set about rock¬ing the cradle, and as the cries increased, herrocking exertions increased in equal proportion ;but all could not pacify the child. A neighbourwoman hearing the noise, went in to See what wasthe matter, but on going to lift the child from thecradle, no child was there, but in lieu thereof, .the two stones of meal in a bag! The press wasopened, and there was the child occupying theshelf usually allotted for the meal! We havenot heard whether this canny couple hate yet re¬joined the tee-totalists. t. 5THE STORYTHE THREE WISHES.I There was once ,a man who was not ver}’ rich,: who had a' very pretty woman to his wife. Onei winter’s Evening as they sat by the fire, they1 .tnlfeed^f rihe: happiness hf the neighbours aroundI (* them who wiei'e ilichhr. than they. Said the wife,k ] “ If it were in jny power- to have what I wish, IJj should soon be ,happier than all of them.”—“ So► ^should I too,” said the husband ; “ I wish we had% 'fairies now a days, and that one of them was kind« I enough to grant to me whatever I should ask orT | wish for.’V\ Now, reader, listen to the sequel of the story,j I and see, after having the means in their power ofI' ? becoming rich, whether they became happier or not.fm ' Just as they had finished speaking, a very1 beautiful young lady appeared in the room, who'm «®c^resse(i them thus,—“ I am a fairy, and I pro-| \l-mise to grant you the first three things you shallwish for; but take care—after having wished forhese three things, I will not grant one wishArther.”a ■ The fairy disappeared, and the man and his wifeVere much perplexed.“ For my own part,” said the wife, ** if it wereleft to my choice, I know very well what I shouldvish for ; I do not wisli yet, but I think nothing is, :Jf 0 good as to be handsome, and rich, and to be of' quality,”17“ But,” answered the husband, “ with all thesthings that you mention, one may be sick, anfretf ul, besides, who knows but one may die young i.—it would be much wiser, I think, to wish forhealth, cheerfulness, and a long life.”“ But to what purpose is a long life with pover- jty?” says the wife; “ it would only prolong ourmisery. In truth, the fairy should^ have promisedus about a dozen of gifts ; for there are at least adozen things which 1 want, and the wants of thislife are so many, that we would always be finding 1out new ones.”' , ' .“ That’s Yery'true,” said' the husband, looking jvery wise-; “ but let us take time ; let us carefullyconsider, from this time till morning, the three ]things which are most necessary for our happiness; |and then wish.”“ I’ll think all night,” said the wife ; “mean- iwhile, let. us warm ourselves for if is very cold.” jAt the same time, the wife took up the tongs to ;mend the fire ; and. seeing there was a "great many jof’ the coals thoroughly lighted, she exclaimed 1without at all thinking on; the mischief she would :work, “ This is a very nice ’fire ; I wish we had ayard of black pudding for our supper, we could get lit finely dressed.”She had hardly these words put of her mouth, "when there came tumbling down the chimney ayard of black pudding.“ Plague on your greedy guts; with your infernal ■black pudding! exclaimed the enraged husband ;here’s a fine wish indeed! Now we have only twoleft. For my part, I am so vexed, that T wish theblack pudding was sticking fast to the tip of yournose.”The man soon perceived that he was a great deasillier than his wife ; for he had no sooner utterrfthis second wish, than up starts the black puddiiw/18uid sticks so fast to the tip of the poor wife’s no-c,that it defied all their efforts to take it off.“ Wretch that I am!” cried the wife, “ you area wicked man for wishing the pudding fast to the! tip of your poor wife’s nose.”I “ My dearest wife,” answered the husband, “ Idid not take the least thought of what 1 was say¬ing. But what shall we do? lam about wishing,for vast riches, and purpose to make a golden caseto hide the pudding.”“ Not at all,” answered the wife, in great grief,“for I would kill myself were I to live with thispudding dangling at my nose. Be persuaded, wehave still a wish to make—leave it to me, or I shallgo away just nowr, and throw myself out at thewindow.”With this she ran and opened the window, butthe husband, who really loved his pretty wife,called out, “ Hold my dear wife, I give you leaveto wish for any thing you like.”“ Well,” said the wife, “ my wish is, that thispudding may drop off.”At that instant the pudding dropped off; and. the wife, who did not want wit, said to her hus-> band,—“ You see the fairy has imposed upon us ; shewas in the right: possibly we should have beenmore unhappy with riches than we are at present.Bel ieve me, friend, let us wish for nothing, and takethings as it shall please God to send them ; in the'meantime let us sup upon our pudding, since that]s all that remains to us of our wishes.”I The husband thought his wife judged right; theysupped merrily, and never gave themselves fartherdouble about tire things they had designed to wishF-\jS v\19SINGULARbVENTURE OF A BRITISH SOLDIER.Infik Cavipaign in North. America.i the year 1779, when the war with America wasiducted with great spirit upon that continent, a: ision of the British army was encamped on thejiks of a river, and in a position so favoured by< ,ure, that it was difficult for any military art toprise it. War in America was rather a specieshunting than a regular campaign. “ If youit with art,” said Washington to his soldiers,j ou are sure to be defeated. Acquire disciplinemgh for retreat and the uniformity of combinedack, and your country will prove the best ofpneers.” So true was the maxim of the Ame-an General, that the English soldiers had toitend with little else. The Americans had iu-pprated the Indians into their ranis, and hadde them useful in a species of war to whichir habits of life had peculiarly fitted them,ey sallied out of their impenetrable forests andtgles, and with their arrows and tomahawks,amitted daily waste upon the British army,—prising their sentinels, cutting off their strag-rs, and even when the alarm was given andsuit commenced, they fled with a swiftness thatspeed of cavalry could not overtake, into rock'l fastnesses whither it was dangerous to followm. In order to limit as far as possible this20species of war, in which there was so much i fand so little honour, it was the custom with cv ,regiment to extend its outposts to a great dista: ,beyond the encampments ; to station sentin tsome miles in the woods, and keep a const:guard round the main body.A regiment of foot was at this tim&1 stationupon the confines of a boundless savannah,particular office was to guard every avenueapproach to the main body ; the sentinels, winposts penetrated into the woods, were supplifrom the ranks, and the , service of this regimewas thus more hazardous than that, of‘any othiIts loss was likewise great. The sentinels wcperpetually surprised upon their posts by the Idians, and were borne off their stations withecommunicating any alarm, or being heard of aftcNot a trace was left of the manner in which th<had been conveyed away, except that upon one ■two-occasions, a few drops of blood had appearcupon the leaves which covered the ground. Alai;imputed this unaccbunta-ble disappearance itreachery, and, suggested as an unanswerabiargument, that the men thus surprised might :least have fired their muskets, and communicatethe alarm to the contiguous posts. Others, whcould not be brought to consider it as treacherywere content to receive it as a mystery which timwould unravel.One morning, the sentinels having heelstationed as usual over night, the guard went ouat sun-rise to-relieye,a post which extended a considerable distance into the wood. The sentinewas gone! the,'surprise was great; but the cir¬cumstance had occurred before. They left anotheiman and departed wishing him better luck. “ 1 o,i,need not be, afraid,” said the man with warmth• I shall not desert!InThe relief Company ^turned to the guard-house.The sentinels were replaced every four hours, andat the appointed time the guard again -marched torelieve the post. To their inexpressible astonish¬ment the man was gone ! They searched roundthe spot, but no traces could be found of his disap-oearanee. It was necessary that the station, froma stronger motive than fever ^ should not remain un¬occupied;; they were compelled to leave anotherman and return to the guard-house. The supersti¬tion of the soldiers was awakened, and the terrorran through the regiment. The Colonel being ap¬prized of the occurrence, signified his Intention toaccompany the guard When they relieved the senti¬nel .they had -left. At the appointed time, theyall marched together; and again, to their unutter¬able wonder, they found the post vacant and theman gone! Under these circumstances, the Colo¬nel 'hesitated Whether he should station a wholecompany oh the spot, or whether he should againsubmit tlie post to a single sentinel. The cautoof these repeated disappearances of men, whosecourage’ and honesty were never suspected,'must hediscovered ; and it seemed not likely that this dis-coveryf Codld-heffobtained'by persisting in the oldmethod; - Thrde':brkvh men Were new lost to theregiment^ afld te Assign the pbst to a fourth- seem¬ed nothing-less thaii giving him up to desiructioii.The poor follow whbse turn it was to take 'the sta¬tion, thohgh amfiuinotherreSpectSofresolntionptrdmMed from head to foot. I- must -do toy-duty,” saidihe to thd Officer, “ I kh<6w that ;but d«t<Juld;hrke'to.fosB1 toydifo%iththere credit.”“diswill leave ho man;” skid'the <3el©iiel,'“’againsthiS Willd’ A maii!inimediatoly.fetept frointhirfi^Wfks,ansJifto^gd rn'takethe-' pektr Evay idlbatfi'fioitf-1mbhdedfefe i-ebetetkffl;' Twill net U faken ^Hvg'-^'said hcUflcarid'jato siiatl 'hgar -of' irie^ffi^leasifalarm M all events I will five my piece if I hear tthe least noise. If a crow Chatters, or a leaf falls, rypn shall hear my musket. You may be alarmed >when nothing is the matter; but you must takethe chance as the condition of the discovery.” The iColonel applauded his courage, and told him he >would be right to fire upon the least noise which .was ambiguous. His comra4es shook hands with ,»him and left him with a melancholy foreboding, t:The company marched back, and waited the event pin the guard-house. ;Au hour, had elapsed, and every ear was upon *the rack for the discharge of the musket, when,upon a sudden, the report was heard. The guardimmediately marched, accompanied, as before, bythe Colonel, and some of the most experienced-officers of the regiment. As they approached thepost, they saw the man advancing. towards them,dragging another man on tlte ground by the hairof his head. When they came up to him itappeared to be an Indian whom he had shot. Anexplanation was immediately required^“ I told your honour,” said the man, “ that Ishould fire if I heard the least noise, The resolu¬tion I have taken has saved my ,life. I had notbeen loug on my post when I heard a rustling at |■some short distance; I looked and saw an Americanhqg, such as are common in the woods, crawlingak>ug the ground, and seemingly looking for nutsunder the trees and among the leaves. As theseanimals are so very common, I ceased to considerit for some minutes but being. On the constantalarm and expectation of attack, and scarcely know?iug what was to be considered a real cause Of ap¬prehension, I kept my eyes.vigilahtly fixed upon if, i ■and marked its progress among the treos; still therewas,tio .need to give the alarm, and.my thoughtswere'diijBCjted to danger from another quarter. It,ruck me, however, as somewhat singular, to seelis animal making, by a circuitous passage, for alick coppice immediately behind my post. I there-ore kept my eye constantly fixed upon it, and as itli as now within a few yards of the coppice, hesitatedI father I should not fire. My comrades, thoughtI. would laugh at me for Manning them by shootingi| pig. I had almost resolved to let it alone, when,list as it approached the thicket, I though I ob-drved it give an unusual spring. I no longer hesi-i ited ; I took my aim ; discharged my piece ; andtie animal was instantly stretched before me withI groan which I conceived to be that of a humanij -eature. I went up to it, and judge toy astonish-'lent, when I found that I had killed an Indian,le had enveloped himself with the skin of one of1 lose wild hogs so artfully and completely; hi-i lands and feet were so entirely concealed in it, andis gait and appearance so exactly correspondentj> that of the animal, that, imperfectly as theyere always seen through the trees and jungles,le disguise could not be penetrated at a distance,id scarcely be discovered upon the nearest aspect,[e was armed with a dagger and a tomahawk.”Such was the -substance of this man’s relation,'he cause of the disappearance of the other senti-els was now apparent. The Indians, sheltered inlis disguise, secreted themselves in the coppice •atched the moment when they could throw it oif ;urst upon the sentinels without previous alarm,id too quick to give them an opportunity to dis-narge their pieces, either stabbed or scalped them,id bore their bodies away, which they concealedfc t some distance among the leaves. The Americanslave them rewards for every scalp of an enemyhich they brought. Whatever circumstances ofonder may appear in the present relation, therei re many now alive who can attest its authenticity./24THE COUNTRY SCHOOLMASTER,A Country Schoolmaster, high Jonas Bell,Once undertook of little souls,To furnish up their jobbernowjs—iIn other words, he taught.them how- to' spell.And well adapted to the task was Bell,Whose iron visage measur’d half an ell:With huge proboscis, and eye-brows of soot,ArmTlat the jowl, just like a boar,And when he gave an angry roar.The.little schoolboys stood like fishes mute.Poor Jonas, the’ a patient; man as Job,Yet still, like Job,-was sometimes heard to growl,Was by a scholar’s adamantine nod,Beyond all patience.gravell’d ip, the soul,I questipn whether jonas in the FishDid ever diet on a bitterer dish.’Twas thus—a lady who supported Bell,Came unexpectedly to hear them spellThe pupil fix’d on by this pedagogue,Her .son, a little .round fac’d ruddy rogueWho thus. letter’s ou the table laid—M. I. L. K,—and paused—Well, sir, whatsthat'?”1 cannot tell,” the boy all trembling said,—■‘ Not tell, you little blind and stupid brat,•• Not tell,” roar’d Jonas, in a violent rage,And quipk prepar’d an angry war- to wage.“ Tell me this instant, or I’ll flay thy hide—“.Come, Sir,“ Dost then this hirchpn weapon; see ? <What puts', tfiy mother indier tea?>”With lifted .exes, the quaking . rogue. reply’cb-“ RUM,, Sir . |, . .jij THE END. . . ft V 1 ,;a onfctar: