* ‘ * I1*Rife- m(SAILOR BOLD.To which is added,(kc Recruiting Serjeant,1 -• , f ’ t-. >>'I ‘ . - • ‘ ' -r-(I Wat ye wha J met yejlreen. iliLl JJaILcr tJOLD. T^ ir'|'' IIE Sailor bold is tbe befi: of hearts,- K. ,That ever travel’d to foreign parts, |He came to his love,. to let her know.That he once more was obliged to g<* .In the puifmt cf honour Hill,And begg’d her not to take it ill.He utter’d melting words like thefe,Altho I fail the ocean Teas,I’ll have you always in my mind,Nor will I ever be unkind :Nor (hall I be while life remains,‘While blood is running in my veins.On you 1 place my deareli love ?And I do prise you far aboveAH beauties in the world befide,And I’ll make you my lawful bride ?When I return from fea again,3o do not in the leaft complain.You have my heart let me.have thine,United by the powers divine ?So Ihall we never never ilyThe bounds of love and loyalty;From the fcilemn vows which we have made:When love for love fhu'l be repaid.My former vows I will renew.If ever 1 (hall prove untrue,Or offer in the ieatt to takeAnother and my pfomife break ?May I periffi In the main ?And never fee,ycur face again.This is enough for a man toWho never tiid nor v.riil betrayYour innocence in any way :1 The recks that in the ocean lie,’ Then fooner may themselves remove,' Then, I prove fa lie to thee my love.My dear i have before I go,it Full twenty kines to bellow ?:! Befsdes 1 have laid up in ftorei! Ten times as mativ millions more ?' Which you ihaii certai nly receive; At my return pray do nor grieve,. Altho I go on boat d this night,'i Yet neverthelefs, my hearts ddighr,P would not have you for to grieve,I: But from my hand this ring receivetin token I’ll be jull and true ?i And love none in the world but you*Perhaps there may be wonders wrought. And to our King great trophies brought?ilrhefe joyful .tidings foon will Ipread,. And laurels erown the royal headi.Of oar moft gracious King, and thenJjWe lhall appear victorious men.The joy and pr ide of Chriftendom,IWiii luch renowned trophies bring :\ Then I mull be among the brave,i Home life, come, death I mean to haveIMy lot, where honour feeras to dwell,do now ten rhoufand times farewel.When fhe had go: the h it falutc,AHho foToe'2; ihe had been mu'e .She burft into a flood of tears ?Crying alas ! my blooming yeaatAre hlafled now with care and grief flJm fm a I can gel: ro relief.You tell me of your ccnflancy,I do not quetlion’t no not I,But when we fo far apart,Yll labgidfh with a bleeding heart.No days of comfort can there be,When you are on the raging fea.When Boreas futly biafts do blow,And Neprunes waves rife to and fro,Ant) thunder feem to burfl the fkies ?Ancl many dangers Inore like wife,"Which threaten you upon the deep.Will often make mine eyes to weep.But if you fnouWi efcape thofe harmsThat fall in midft of various florms ;Yet you may in *he battle fall,By dint of fword, or cannon ball,As many heretofore have do:?e ;And why fhould you fuch hazard run.You talk of gaining honour great.But what if it fhould beydur fate, ,To meet with broken .(haltered bones,When lying under grievous groans,Will honour cure your limbs againNo. you mml undergo the pain.CYfider this, my joy, my dear,X^o further no, call: anchor here.  . .   Unr ride in this fafe road at home Ji'And fo we two iltai! never roam,ijjBut imitate the fpotlefs dove,sAnd bill and coo, and fpc-rt in love.He laugh'd upon his love, and laid,.The laws of love muft be obey’dBy me as well as many more,iWhen once this mighty work is o’erpo v> iih us good fuccefs, I pray,:For here at home l cannot flay.M is not your talking ot'dangers great,'Shall make me fear the frowns of fate ;i Betide me life, betide rne death,i\V bile I can flapd or draw my breath,I will dppofe the pride of France,Great Britains glory tb advance.Thenihe convoy’d him to the fhore,! And parted with feme kiffes more.When fhe faw her tears would not prevailI The wind blew fair, they hoifted faili Which drove his vefiel out of light,/iAnd left her in a woeful plight.But file’s receiv’d from his handjLA letter fince he left the l^pd,dWhich gives her fatisfa&ion ftill.And does her days with comfort nil,Becaufe flvj finds him juft and true j! Such loyal lovers there ate but few,.THE RECRUITING SERJEANT.i OU Tons of Mars, T pray draw .near.The farmers’ fons you fee they to Ileave their fpade, and weary plow,And along with us they are to go,to fight the french culotes.No more in frizes to be feen,but in the fcarlet red or lovely greenWith btoad fteei fword?, thats fharp andkeen,with drums and fyfes before you.Thefe youths like heroes void cf fear, ,they are not troubled with wordiy care,,but fight for Britains glory.You pretty maids thats loft your lads,I mud confefs your cafe is bad.But they will fafe return again,when the french wars are over.For the fcottifh lads have hearts of fteel, >unto their enemies will never yield ;Like lions bold they take the field,and fight for Britains glory.TIeres a health to George our King,fupply him with true hearted men,Arjd grant that victory he may gain,o’er his infii'tins: en’mies.and tiften to a volunteer,And fo become a' brother dear,Tmean a valiant foldier.. c 7 )sfrant thakvictaiious he may be,: o’er his infaiting enemy,i ft all true icotfmen join with me,•. and pray for Britains giory.|aT 1tE WHA I MET YESTREEN.l,J T OW wat ye v.ha I met yehreen,if%J Coming down the flreet, myjo riy miftrde in her tartan fereen,ii *w bonny, braw, and fw eet my jo,y dear, quoth I, thanks to the night,■mat never wiih’d a lover ill,bee you’re out of your mither’s fight,-t’s take a walk up to the hill.K) katy wiltu’ gang vvi’ me,fold leave the dinfotne tow n awhile ?ebloiToms fprouting frae the tree,|d a} the fummer’s gavvn to ftniie|||e mavis, nightingale, and lark,|e beating lambs, and whiftHng hind,ilka dale, green, fliaw, and park,ll nourilh health, and glad your mind. .oon as the clear goc iman of day,ds up his morning draught of dev/,hi gae to fome bum-f:de and play,i!i gather flowers to bulk ye’re blow;ll'U pu’ the daifies on the gre^en,i lucken gowans frae the bog ;Between hands now and then \ve‘'lliean>. And fport uoo’ the velvet fog.< , ♦ „ ,There*?, up into a pleafant glen,. A wee piece frae my father’s tow’r,A canny, foft; and llow’ry den.Where circling bircks have form’d the bow’rWhe^r’er the fun grows high and warm,'We’ll ’O the cauier fhades rCinove ;There I will leek thee in my anus,. And love and kifs, and kifs anti love.