GLASGOW ;PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.HISTORYOFSir William Wallace-The RenownedScottish Champion.—i Containing an Account of his Valliant Transac¬tions against the English, and his mournful fateat London, after he was betrayed into the handsof his enemies ; how he was put to death, and hisi body quartered, and sent to various places.107YHOTamf.fyS-’illidirfroddM eifT.jioi(| in/iilO dtiiilao®T / Nf'i ?0 Jt •> \ \ ■ -''38 1 ;'t Oi • Li:- 6 ; t |eiiiTjari &dJ oJni -«s« ad isfiis ,!iobaoJt 34 I?iri ftiti.ab oi iuq &&W wotf j eaintaua • in io |: ^ro »«;; y r.-.saSUJK' -tfOOS SHT JTOH 03’ i“ fHISTORYOFiSIR WILLIAM WALLACE.was in tidies of the deepest calamity, whenotland as it were was overwhelmed with afllic-n, and sinking into the deepest despair, by these conduct of an ignominious monarch, that:otland was betrayed into the hands of the KingEngland, who put Scotland in a state of cruel-and oppresion, and sent blood and carnage overe land that Divine Providence, raised up Sirlaliiam Wallace, for a deliverer of his country,mm the slavish submission to the English mon-lieh, and a champion to avenge her wrongs.'I This remarkable hero was the son of Sirili alcolm Wallace, the proprietor of a small estate'died Ellerslie, near Paisley, in the county ofsnfrew. The exact period of his birth is notI own ; but it is supposed that at the time of his• her’s death, who was killed at the battle ofi indon Hill, in 1293, he was about fifteenliars of age. His mother, after this disastrousf cut, fled with her son to the house of an)cle, where Wallace lived between two and threears. when a boy he had witnessed the se-4icurity and happiness of his country during threign of Alexander III, and now when she wsdegraded and oppressed by the tyrant Edwarchis countrymen despoiled of their goods, antheir wives and daughters wantonly insulted b<his English followers, the contrast wras of such jnature as to arouse the*keenest feelings in a hea:which from its earliest stirrings was animated ba love of liberty to his country, which nothing bt;death could extinguish. ,Whilst brooding in secret over his country jwrongs, an event occurred which stimulated th ipowers of his mind and body into active existenoand for ever banished all hope of conciliation bttwixt him and the enslavers of his country. Hhad formed an attachment to a beautiful younwoman in the town of Lanark, and when passin ,through that burgh, 'well armed and somewhtrichly dressed, he was recognised by a troop iEnglish soldiers, who surrounded and insulte!him. Wallace at first would have prudently gtlclear of their insolence; but a contemptuous strokwhich one of them made against his sword, proyoked him to draw, and he laid the culprit deaat his feet. A tumult now arose, and, almo>overpowered by numbers, he escaped with diffculty into the house of his sweetheart, and throng.it, by a back passage, into the neighbourin ■5* woods. For facilitating his escape, the unfor¬tunate girl was seized next day by the Englishi idieriff, and with inhuman cruelty condemned andi Executed. But Wallace’s revenge, when he heardi)f her unmerited fate, wras as rapid as it was stern.That very night he collected thirty faithful and/powerful partisans, who, entering the town when|ill were in their beds, reached the sheriff’s lodg¬ings in silence. It was a building constructed of'Avood, and the sheriff’s apartment communicatedziwith the street by a high stair. Up this WallaceBrushed at midnight, and, beating down the door,resented himself in full armour, and with hisaked weapon, before the affrighted officer, whosked him whence he came, or who he was ? “Im William Wallace,” he replied, “ whose life( you sought yesterday : and now thou shalt an-•iswer me for my poor maiden’s death.” Withi these words he seized his naked victim by the[,i throat, and passing his sword through his body,ui cast the bleeding wretch down the stair into thei street, where he was immediately slain. He thenspeedily withdrew with his followers into thewoods which surrounded the town. For this dar¬ing act of retaliation he was accused by the gov-•flerment of murder, and sentence of 4^ proscriptionand outlawry being passed against him, an im¬mediate and eager pursuit was adopted. Wallace,6however, was intimately acquainted with th"Hcountry, and found little difficulty in defeatinevery effort for his apprehension.Before proceeding further, however, in the detail of Wallace’s personal history, and in orderbetter to understand the narrative which follows,it becomes necessary to take a short review ofthe state of matters at that time in Scotland, andthe course of events which led to the series oftransactions.Upon the death of Alexander III. a numberof candidates appeared for the Scottish crown;and among others were Robert Bruce and John .Baliol, both descendants of David I. The right Iof the former was certainly the preferable one;but when the right of succession was not dis¬tinctly settled, the claims of both had supporters.It was at last proposed, to refer their claims toEdward I. of England, one of the most powerfulmonarchs of that day. Edward, who had longcherished ambitious designs upon Scotland, wasdelighted with this proposal, and by way of ad¬justing the matter, which he now affected to lookupon with a great deal of solemnity, summonedthe Scottish nobles to Norham, where, he soonprevailed on all present, not excepting Bruce andBaliol, to acknowledge him Lord Paramount,and swear fealty to him in that character.It was on this occasion maintained by Edward,hat the English monarchs were the natural andIcknowledged superiors of the kingdom of Scot-’ind, which only an appanage of the Englishirown; and that at different periods this right<iad been authenticated by the homage of theScottish princes. Now the fact was, that thesects of fealty were only rendered for possessionsf the Scottish sovereigns lying on the northernontier of the English dominions. These terri-ories, from their being situate on the thresholdf the two kingdoms, had formed the theatre ofany sanguinary conflicts; and had at divers timeshanged masters, till they came at last to be con-idered as belonging to Scotland. For theseossessions it had been the practice of some ofhe Scottish kings, at different periods, to doomage, to those of far inferior note, for tracts ofand acquired in this manner; and instances wereot awanting of the English monarchs themselves,endering that sort of subjection to the kings ofranee. It was now contended, however, byEdward, that the homage or fealty on these oc¬casions had been done for the entire kingdom ofScotland.This was the first step in Edward’s ambitiousviews. Under pretence of transmitting the fullauthority into the hands of the successful can-sdidate, he next demanded the temporary posses¬sion of all the fortresses of the kingdom : which,strange to say, were passively yielded into hishands, with the exception of the castles of Dun- Pdee and Forfar, then held by Gilbert de Urn- ,fraville, who refused compliance with this un- ,looked-for mandate, unless a written indemnity. rshould be given at the hand of the Scottish no¬bles, freeing him from all share of blame. Theclaim of Baliol was at last, 17th December 1292,;declared the preferable one, and that personage, j;having again acknowledged the English king ashis liege lord, was placed by him on the Scottish, j.throne.The insults and degradation to which he was.subjected at last roused even the complying spirit,of Baliol, and in the bitterness of his soul hecould not help communicating his feelings to the ...nobles of his court, who, at his instigation, nowunanimously disclaimed their hasty allegiance tothe English monarch. “ The silly traitor,” ex¬claimed Edward in derision, when Baliol’s re¬fusal to attend his summons was communicatedto him, s' it he will not come to us we will go tohim.”Edward now entered Scotland with a large ar¬my ; one stronghold after another yielded to theconqueror; Edinburgh Castle surrendered after9i I ?Hght resistance; Stirling Castle almost with-i it a struggle; others were abandoned : the spirit: * the nation was extinguished : and Baliol againi nbmitted to the terms of the conqueror. In this* ivasion Edward had been joined by Bruce andis adherents, who conceived a prospect wasripened up of that nobleman obtaining the crown,iiiut Edward, when order was restored, and thetfiatter hinted to him, contemptuously replied,Have we nothing else to do but to conquert, ingdoms for you ?” Bruce made no reply, butlib tired into obscurity, and passed the remainderff his days in quietness and opulence,i! It was in the month of July 1296 that Edwardfinished at Elgin his expedition northward a-drainst the Scots. On his return to the southais army committed the most dreadful excesses;nd still more to complete the subjugation ofScotland, the English monarch ordered all the•barters and public papers which could in anyivay exhibit proof of the independence of therealm to be destroyed. He also carried off thecelebrated stone, belonging to the coronation-•hair of the Scottish kings, from the palace ofScone, where it had been kept for ages, and de¬posited it in Westminister Abbey. But all theseI indignities, added to the oppression and misruleof Edward’s lieutenants in Scotland, only served10to exasperate, and at last to rouse into fearful ae- i.tion, the slumbering' hatred of the nation. A- <c>!mong the foremost of those who banded them- ivselves against the English was Wallace, who now ifirst publicly appeared on the scene. He was ai1man eminently fitted for his perilous enterprise; kfor to the most ardent love of his country, un- <shaken resolution, and prodigious strength oflibody, he added those firm yet conciliatory man- jLiners which are necessary to govern rude and I]tumultuary ranks; while the personal and family! kinjuries he had sustained at the hands of the i»:English gave tenfold vigour to his efforts. A kprediction also of Thomas the Rhymer, assertedthat by the arm of Wallace was the independence >of Scotland to be achieved.To be aquainted with the strength and resour¬ces of the English, Wallace often disguised him¬self, and visited their garrisons and towns.He took precaution to wear a light coat ofmail under his common clothes; his bonnet, which tto common sight was nothing more than a capof cloth or velvet, had a steel basnet concealed tunder it; a collar or neck-piece, of the same met- |al, fitted him so closely, that it was hid complete- lly, and below his gloves he had strong gauntlets of iplate. Relying on his Herculean strength and |]secret armour, he fearlessly ventured into the very |11middle of Ids enemies, and when they ventured; to taunt or assail him, found that they had to doi with an assailant in full armour and of undauntedi courage.While thus disguised, personal encounters withhis enemies were of frequent occurrence. Hei slew a buckler-player at Ayr, and put to flight: a number of soldiers, who attempted to rob himj of his day’s sport as he fished in Irvine water,i He repaid the rudeness of Squire Long-castle\ by a mortal thrust in the throat with his dagger;i and by many such bold and daring adventures hei! slew many of his foes.In the spring of the year 1297, the people«were suffering grievously from famine, to relievethe English garrison of Ayr, a large train of* waggons, under the protection of John de Fen-wick, took their journey from Carlisle to that;town. Of this Wallace was informed, and al-i though he could then only muster about fifty11 soldiers, he determined to attack it. Having(occupied a strong position within a wood, he put. up a temporary fortification, and passed the night.! In the grey dawn of the morning, he and his men. left their horses, and occupied a narrow valleyi which the convoy was to pass. Forward cameFenwick at the head of a force which far outnum¬bered them, and, confident in his own numbers,ii12lie did not hesitate to attempt forcing the pass ;but he was soon convinced of his error. Encum¬bered by the train of waggons, and carriages hewas thrown into irrecoverable confusion, and theScots, after a great slaughter, captured the wholeconvoy, which, besides wine, and forage, includedtwo hundred horses, and a considerable plunderin arms and accoutrements.Wallace having been thus successful in variouspartial encounters, many of the barons and otherpersons of high rank flocked to his standard.Edward now prepared a fresh army, which, un¬der the command of Sir Robert Clifford and SirHenry Percy, a second time invaded Scotland.Hastening to quell the insurrection, they cameup with Wallace and his army, occupying an ad¬vantageous position in the neighbourhood of Ir¬vine, in Ayrshire, and much superior to the Eng¬lish in numbers, but far inferior in discipline andappointments. By that sort of fatality, whichseems inherent in divided command and undis¬ciplined masses, when they are most required toact in concert, and which always leads to distrustand perplexity, the commanders, on this occasion,were determined to be each independent, andwere therefore intractable, They could agreeupon no measure, Dissension and heartburningswere every where : and Sir Richard Lundin, who13had been most vehement in his hostility to theinvaders, deserted the cause of his country, andvent over to the English, “ I will remain nolonger with a party that is at variance with it¬self.”—Stewart, Lindsay, and Douglas, followedI this example, and basely yielded themselves tothe authority of Edward’s officers.The Scottish champion, finding himself thusI basely deserted, by the leading men who sur-n rounded him, retired northward. On his marchwith those who still remained faithful to his for-! tunes, he was joined by many new followers, andeven received considerable accessions to his ranksfrom the vassals of several barons. Finding hisarmy, by reason of these accessions, once moreon a formidable footing, Wallace renewed thewar, and commenced operations by laying siegeto Dundee, a place of considerable strength.The English leaders were no sooner apprized; of Wallace’s movements in that quarter than theyhastened to meet him, and with that intent ad-i vanced in the direction of Stirling. Intelligenceof their march having been speedily communi¬cated to the Scottish champion, he instantly re-I solved to meet them on their approach. He thencharged the citizens of Dundee, under pain ofdeath, to continue the blockade, and commencedhis march, hastening to seize the important pass14which divides the Ochil from the Grampian Hills,so that the English forces, when ready to passthe Forth by the bridge at Stirling, were aston¬ished to see the Scottish army drawn up on a ris¬ing ground near the Abbey of Cambuskenneth,and prepared to oppose their passage. Edward’sgovernor, here attempted to practise the samearts which had beed so successful while at Irvine.The men which Wallace now had, were of a verydifferent stamp from those dastardly and perfid¬ious barons with whom it was his misfortune onthat occasion to be allied. All terms of com¬promise were promptly and sternly rejected.“ Return,” said Wallace to the two friars sentby Warrene to propose an accommodation ; “ Wecame not here to treat but to assert our rights,and set Scotland free. Let them advance, theywill find us prepared.”Thus the English commanders were throwninto perplexity as to what plan of operations theyshould follow. To attempt to force a passagealong the bridge, in the face of an enemy so ad¬vantageously posted and so full of zeal and highhopes, would be a step fraught with manifestdanger, On the other hand, to decline the con¬test with an enemy inferior in many respects;would be held disgraceful. While engagedin these deliberations, the danger of assaulting15ithe Scots in their present position appeared moreand more hazardous to all the English comman¬ders, except Cressingham the treasurer, who ex¬claimed “ Let us fight, as is our bounden duty.”The boisterous eloquence of Cressingham prevail¬ed, and the rest of the leaders yielded a reluctantassent, contrary to the advice also of one ofWallace’s late perfidious associates, Sir RichardLundin, who offered to point out a ford at a shortdistance, by taking advantage of which they couldfall on the rear and flanks of the enemy.Wallace, Exhorting his followers solely to a-bide by his orders for the moment of attack,Wallace allowed about a third of the Englisharmy fairly to clear the bridge; when rushingdown, while the others were defiling along thebridge, with an unlooked for and almost incredi¬ble impetuosity, the Scots precipitated themselveson their yet unformed ranks. The shock waslike that of a mountain-torrent. The Englishseemed to have been, as it were, instantaneouslyswept off the earth. Thousands were slain onthe field or drowned in the river ; among the resttheir rash adviser, Cressingham, whose dead bodywas treated with great indignity by the Scots,who abhorred him for the tyranny which he hadalways displayed against their country. A panicseized the English, who had witnessed this sud-10den overthrow and destruction of their compan¬ions : they hastily burned the bridge to securetheir retreat, and, fleeing with the utmost rapidi¬ty, they scarcely halted till they had reachedBerwick, leaving all their baggage and otherammunition in the hands of the victors. Few a-mong the Scots fell in this engagement. Thisbattle, so fatal in its issue to the English, tookplace on the 11th September 1297.Wallace pushed on with rapid steps to Dundee,which in a short time capitulated. One strong-hold after another fell into the hands of the pat¬riots, and the country was soon freed from thetyranny of her oppressors.By reason of bad seasons and want of cultiva¬tion, the country was reduced to a most deplora¬ble state of privation and want, amounting almostto famine. To relieve in some measure the gen¬eral pressure, as well as to retaliate on the invaders,an expedition into England was put under thecommand of Wallace, and the young Sir AndrewMurray, whose father fell at Stirling. The Scotspoured into the northern counties, Berwick w’astaken, and the whole country completely overrunand wasted ; and so great was the revenge of theScots at this time, that Wallace himself and theother commanders wrere altogether unable torestrain their excesses.17'0Many wonderful facts are told of Wallace’sexploits he defeated the English in several com¬bats, chased them almost entirely out of Scotland,regained the towns and castles of which they hadpossessed themselves, and recovered the completefreedom of the country. He even marched intoEngland, and laid Cumberland and Northumber¬land waste, and humbled the English.In the north of Scotland, the English hadplaced a garrison in the strong castle of Dunnot-tar, which, built on a large and precipitous rock,overhangs the raging sea. Though the place isalmost inaccessible, Wallace and his followersfound their way into the castle, while the garrisonin great terror fled into the church or chapel,which was built on the very verge of the pre¬cipice. This did not save them, for Wallacecaused the church to be set on fire. A numberof the terrified garrison, involved in the flames,ran upon the points of the Scottish swords, whileothers threw themselves from the precipice intothe sea, and swam along to the cliffs, where theyhung like sea-fowl, screaming in vain for mercyand assistance.The followers of Wallace falling on their kneesbefore the priests who chanced to be in the army,they asked forgiveness for having committed somuch slaughter within the limits of a church de-18tlieated to the service of God. But Wallace hadso deep a sense of the injuries which the Englishhad done to his country, that he only laughed atthe contrition of his soldiers,—“ I will absolveyou all myself,” he said. “ It is not half whatthe invaders deserved at our hands ?” So deep-seated was Wallace’s feeling of national resent¬ment, that it overcame, the scruples of a temperwhich was naturally humane.The Scots returned from England in triumph,laden with plunder; where they had spread ter¬ror along the whole border, to the gates of New¬castle.Edward once more resolved to invade Scotland,at the head of 80,000 infantry and 7000 horse¬men, he in person led on the march, holding hiscourse northward he passed through Edinburgh,and fixed his head-quarters at Templeliston, avillage between that city and Linlithgow, wherehe resolved to abide till his victualling-shipsshould arrive. While stationed here he receivedintelligence that the Scots wereadvancing uponFalkirk, a town about 12 miles distant. He re¬solved to <nve battle. But while the Englishpassed the night under arms on a heath, an ac¬cident happened to their king which threatenedfor the present to suspend the attack. As he lavon the ground, his war-house struck him with a19violence which broke two of his ribs ; but, disre¬garding the pain, he mounted the horse and in¬stantly led his troops to battle.The Scots were formed in a stony field on aslightly rising ground, in the near vicinity of Fal¬kirk. Their infantry were drawn up in four cir¬cular bodies, while the archers were disposed inthe intervals. The horse, amounting only to athousand, were posted in the rear. In front of' the whole lay a morass. “ Now,” said Wallace,'j “ I have brought you to the ring ; hop gif you; can —that is, “ dance if you have skill.” Ed-1 ward’s chief dependence was on his cavalry, 4000i of whom were cased in complete armour. These1! he ranged in three lines. The first was led byBigot, Earl Marshal, and the earls of HerefordLincoln; the second by the bishop of Durham,I having under him Sir Ralph Basset of Drayton;I the third, to act as a reserve, was commanded byi| the king in person. The assault was begun byI the English horse, who, finding the passage ofthe morass, which lay in front of the Scots, toI be impracticable, made a simultaneous attack onI the right and left flanks of their enemy. Theleft flank made a determined and bloody resist-i ance ; but the Scots cavalry, panic-struck by theoverwhelming appearance of the English horseywhich, as well as their riders, were equipped in20heavy plates of steel, fled on their near approach,Wallace with his gallant infantry had now to sus¬tain, unsupported, the whole shock of the Englisharmy, who again and again threw themselveswith headlong fury upon the Scottish circles;but, “ they could not penetrate into that woodof spears.” After sustaining these repeated char¬ges with the most determined resolution, the outerranks were at last broken by dense showers ofstones and arrows, which the English poured inupon them in aid of the heavy onsets of theirhorse. Macduff- and Sir John Graham had bythis time fallen, as also Sir John Stuart, whocommanded the archers ; almost all of which lasthad perished by the side of their beloved comman¬der, whose death by their devoted bravery theyso amply revenged. The rout was now becom¬ing universal, when Wallace, collecting the shat¬tered remains of his forces, commenced a retreatacross the Carron,—a movement which, by hisprecaution caused little loss.—Among those whomost eagerly pressed on their rear was Bruce, whoon this occasion had again leagued himself withthe English. Exasperated at the sight of this sel¬fish traitor, Wallace suddenly darted forward, andwith his two-handed sword dealt him a blow,which, though it missed Bruce’s head, was yetaimed with such prodigious strength as to cleave21/his horse to the ground. With Sir Brian le Jay,a knight-templar of high military renown, theScottish hero was more successful. With a sin¬gle blow of his battleaxe he laid him dead in themidst of his followers.Wallace now retreated across the Forth. Butprevious to this movement, and while wanderingon the banks of the Carron, Wallace was recog¬nised by the misguided Bruce, who descried himfrom the opposite bank, and, with the view per¬haps of justifying his own dastardly conduct, as¬cribed to ambitious motives, in his opposition tothe English. “ No,'’ said Wallace, “ mythoughts never soared so high; I only mean todeliver my country from oppression and slavery,and to support a cause which you and others haveabandoned. If you have but the heart, you mayyet win a crown with glory, and wear it withjustice. I can do neither: but will—live and diea free born subject.”The generous mind of Bruce was much struckwith these glorious sentiments; he repented thathe had joined Edward; he felt that he had be¬trayed his country and his own right; and hesecretly determined to seize the first opportunityof joining his oppressed countrymen.In this battle, the loss on both sides was verygreat. The number of the English, accordingto historians of credit, amounted, as before stated,to neany 90,000 men, while that of the Scotsscarcely reached to a third part of the amount.Among- the Scots who fell none was more regret¬ted than Sir John the Graham, whose death wasdeeply mourned by Wallace. Sir John wasburied at Falkirk, where a monument was erec¬ted to his memory, on which there is the follow-'ing inscription:—“ Graham is buried here, slainin battle by the English: he was strong in mindand body, and the faithful friend of Wallace.”The battle of Falkirk led the way to furthersuccesses on the side of the English, and almostthe whole of the southern districts were reducedunder their power. The Scots still held posses¬sion of the country north of the Forth. In themean while Wallace, mortified by the treacheryof the nobles, who threw every obstacle in theway of his being of any efficient use in the causeof his country, and disgusted with their quarrelsand jealousies, retired for a while into obscurity.About this time, he took a voyage to France,with a small band of trusty friends, to try whathis presence might do to induce the French mon¬arch to send to Scotland a body of auxiliary for¬ces, to aid the Scots in regaining their independ¬ence, but in the mean time bishop Lamberton,- Bruce, carl of Carrick, and John Gumming tlte23i younger submited to Edward, but Sir WilliamWallace, with a very small band of followers re¬fused either to acknowledge the usurper, Edward,or to lay down his arms. He continued to main¬tain himself among the woods and mountains ofhis native country, for no less than seven yearsafter his defeat at Falkirk, and for more than oneyear after all the other defenders of Scottish lib-I erty had laid down their arms. Many proclam-| ations were sent out against him by the English,and a great reward was set upon his head; for1 Edward did not think he could have any securepossession of his usurped kingdom of ScotlandI while Wallace lived. At length he was takenprisoner; and, shame it is to say, a Scotsman,ealled Sir John Menteith, was the person bywhom he was seized and delivered to the English.It is generally said that he was made prisoner atRobroyston, near Glasgow: and the tradition ofthe country bears, that the signal made for rushing[upon him and taking him at unawares, was, whenone of his pretended friends, who betrayed him,should turn a loaf, which was placed on the table,with its bottom or flat side uppermost. And inafter-times it was reckoned ill-breeding to turn aloaf in that manner, if there was a person namedMenteith in company; since it was as much as toremind him, that his namesake had betrayed Sirion of Scotland.\ of |iWilliam Wallace, tEdward having thus obtained possession of theperson whom he cpnsida:e'i|L as the greatest ob^lai||cle to his complete conquest of Scotland, resol¬ved to make Wallace an example to all Scottish ,patriots, who should in future venture to oppose,his ambitious projects. He caused this gallant;defender of his country to be brfu^nl^o trial^hWcstmihstcr-hall, where he was aewing been a.traitor to the Euglish.crownhe answered, " I could not be a traittfiv toward, for I was never his subject.”Notwithstanding this most honouraWallace was shamefully condemned toeuted as a traitor ! and Edward to his iufjid;reproach and disgrace, ordered YYallace wo' bedragged upon a sledge to the place of execution;where his head was struck olf, and his body di-\-ided into four quarters, which, in conformity tothe cruel practice of the time, were exposed upon Ipikes of iron upon London Bridge,—his right |arm above the bridge at Newcastle,—-his leftwas sent to Berwick,—his right foot and limb toPerth, and his left quarter to Aberdeen,—andtermed the limbs of a traitor! He was executedon the 23d of August, 1305.