GLASGOW*Printed by J & M. Robertfonj Saltmsrk'Jt* tSo'THE GREAT IMPORTANCE of a SUITA BL1PREPARATION for UEATPI.O NWhat man it he that Itveth, and Jball not fee death, &t.BY the’ LATE REVERNND'Mr. ANDREW GRAY,MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL I : GLASGOW.THE GREAT IMPORTANCE of a SUITABLEPREPARATION for DEATH.ASERMON,: .5 • o »PSALM LXXXIX. 48;IVhai man is hr that livelhy and /'hall not fee :leatbt &c. ’IT is very, Jiard to deternv’ne, where all that archere''’isi! be within thirty years; for even erethat time come, many (if not all) of us 'who are here,(hall havg taken up our evevfafting lodging. Afldwhether we (hall take it up in the eternity of joy, orin die eternity of pain:, is alfo hard to determine ;only this one thing I am fare of, that all of us ihell5 (hortly be gone, and efe long fhe (hadows of deAh(hail be fitting upon oUr eye-hdf, and our eye-flringsfhall begin to break. Therefore, I would the morefevioufiy enquire you. what would you think ifdeath were approaching this night unto you? Thinkye that Jefu*. Chrift is gbne up to prepare a place foryou? even for yon. Surely l thirife we arev all nearto eternity, and there are fome hearing me" to diy,whotp I defy the world to alhire> that ^ver they (hallhoar "another fe'rmor.: thertfore l entreat yoi:,a>]'tohear this preaching, as if It were the laft preachingthat ever ye iTidhlh hear, and O tha': we cbuld fpeakit, as if it were the laft fermon that ever we wouldpreach unto you. *Bylieve me, death is another thingthan we take it to be.' OK! what will many of usdo ia the day of our vifitation, when defolation (hallThe grtat Importance vr a, !kc. |come from afar ? where will' we flee for re(t; and,where will we leave our glory? Old rich men, wherewill ye flee when death afihults you!, Old poor men,where will ye flee when death a flanks you! Old wo¬men, where will you flee when death a {faults you ?Young women, where wilt you flee when death af-faults you ? It was an ancient ohferyation of David,Pfalm xsxix. 5. that. ‘ God had made his days as anhand breadth.’ This cither may relate to the fourfoldHate of man, viz. His infancy, his child-hood, hisman hood, and his old age. Or, it may relate thefourfold time of his life, viz. His morning, his'fore¬noon, his afternoon, and his evening; yet, all uui:lifetime is but a day. And, O think ye not that our'day is near unto a clofe !Now* before that I begin to fpeak any thing fromthe words, I (hall fpeak a few things to theie twoqueftlons, which I conceive may not altogether be.un¬profitable.Queft. i,. Whether is it lawful for any to defire todie, and retnrn unto their long and endlefs home ?Whether it be lawful for one to cry out, O time, timeflee away (and all my ihadows let them be gone) thatlb, long eternity may come ?| Anf. I fay. It is lawful in fame cafes, for one todefire to die; for it was Paul's defire, Philip, i. 23.‘ I am in a flrait betwixt- two, having a deiire to de¬part, and to be with Cbfift, which is far better.’ And2 Cor. 2. * We groan earneftly, ddiring to beclothed upon with our houfi, which is from heaven.*'i long greatly till the twemtv-firft year of my agecome, when my minority (hall be overpaid, that Imay be entered heir to , that mat chiefs' inheritance.But to clear in what cafes it is lawful to defirc todie.I. I fay, It i lawful to defire to die, when it flow-,cth from a defire of uninterrupted fellowfliip and com-imunion with Chrift, and copjunftion with him; ^hfisis clear, 2 Cor. v. 6. ‘ Knowing that whilft we areat home in the body, we are abfent from the Lord/Therefore, Vcrfc 8. * We are willing rather to b“4 The grest Iir.porta".cc ot aabfent from the booy, and to be prefent with the Lord."Alio it is clear, Philip, i. 23. ‘1 am in a ilrait betwixttwo, having a defire to depart, aiid to be with Chrift,which is far better.* I» was his great end to haveTear and unmixed communion with Chrift. Whataileth you, Paul, (might one have faid.) may you notbe content to flay a while here ? Nay, faith Paul, ‘ Idefire to be gone, and to be with Chrift.’ Waft thounever with him here, Phil ? 1 have been with him,faith ic, but what is all my being with him here, incompavifon of my-being with him above ; ‘ Whilft Iam ! refent in the body, I am abfent from the Lordtherefore, I will never be at reft, faith he, get whatI will, until l get Chrift, until 1 get thofe naked andimmediate embracemerits of that noble Plant of Re¬nown, the Flower of the flock of Jefle, who is thelight of the higher houfe, the eternal admiration ofangels.2. It is lawful to defire to die, when it flowethfrom the oxcelle ;cies of heaven, from a defire to par¬take of tliefe exceHer.t things that are there; thus isclear, 2 Cor. v. ‘ We groan being burdened;’ or,as the word is, ‘ We groan, at they who are preffedunder a heavy burden, that we may be clothed upon.’&c. What aileth you to groan fo, Paul ? O faith he,I groan that mortality may be Wallowed up of life.3. It is lawful to defire to die, when it fioweth froma defire to be fayed from the body of death ; and fromthefc temptations that doth aflhult us: And from thefeoppreifions whereunto wc are fubjeQed by it. DoubtlefsPaul defired to die on this account, when he cried out,Romans xii. 24. ‘ O wretched man that I am, whoHull deliver me from the body of this death!’ he long-eth greatly for that day, 4 wherein he (hall be madewhite like the wings of a dove, covered with filvcr,whofe feathers arc of yellow gold.’ O ! fmth Paul, 1am as one impatient till I be above, where I (hall beclothed with thefe excellent and cleanly robes, * therigliteoufnefs of Chrift.’ Oh ! faith Paul, I think e-very day a year, till I be poffefTed of that kingdomwhere Satan cannot tempt, and tire creature cannotf.iiuble Preparation for Death. £i . yield, and where I (hall be free from all' tny fears offinning. Now in all thefe rcfpeits who -would notdefire to die? But to guard all thefe, 1 would giveyou fhefe four cautions.I I. Caution. Your defire to die fhould not be per¬emptory, but you fhould defire to die with fub rdf-fion to the will t.f God ; fo that although he wcni l fill, up fifteen years more to your life, you fhould be con¬tent to live it out.2. Caution. When your del’res are hafty and offhand, fufptdt them; for fume, vviien they meet witlian outward crofs (without all deliberation) will cuyout, “ O to be gone, O that I were dead.” But yourdefire to die Ih.iuid be. deliberate, but not hafty, orrafli.J. Ceution. i t is not lawful to defire to die, becaiifeof perfonal afflictions- Many, when they meet withbitter afflictions, will ciy out, ‘ O' to be gone; theylong for death even upon that accountfuch wereJob’s defire3, Job xxi. 22. and chapter vi, verfe 8, 9.‘ O that I might have my reqneiM even that it wouldpleafe God tv deftroy me.’ This delire was very un¬lawful. ■*4. Caution, It Is not lawful to defire to die, whenthy predominant idol is taken away from thee: Yet' fuch was Jonah’s defire, chapter iv. 3. Jonah thought| hi; credit and reputation- (which was his idol) wwgone, and could never be regained ; therefore he wilh-ed to die. But I vsould fay this- to you, that fome willhave ten defires for death, ,when .they have not onej' defire for oeaycn. And what moveth Cbriftians-to befo defirous to die ? It is not fo much becanfe of theirhope, ^3 becaufe of 1 heir anxiety; it is not fo muchbceo*jfe of their confidence, as becattfe-of their impa¬tience. But I fay unto you, when your deiires of deathare not accompanied with deiires of heaven, (tifpchi! them. 2. I would fay this, that there are fame whoI will, have ten defires for death, when they will, nothave one for the death of the body of death; but it! r-ere good for thee (who art fuch) to be defiringthe death of the body of death; then fhould tWao' 'iV.e great importance of abe. ia :> more fuitable frame to defire to die.3. Some witl have hearty defires to die, and yet, •.vrhen death cometh. they will be as umj'SI.Ing to dieas any. It hath been obferved, that feme who haverodch defire to die, when death came, have cried out,* O fpare a little, that I. may recover ftrength',J &c.There is a great difference between a iVefire to die,and death itul.*. It is an eafy tiling to cl.lire to die,hut it is a very gffcii hufinefs to meet With death, andto look it ;n the face when it cwp.eth. We ..th;*;kdeath (ere it come near ns) to be but childrens’ ;tlay,b-.u when we meet with it, it mvketh us change ourt • i-yghtj ; for it is a gn at bufinefsto die.Qaieit. e. Is it lawful far a Cltriftian to defire tolive when he is fumtnoned .to die ?Anfvy. In fome cafes it is lawful for a Chriftian tod-elire to live, even when he is fummoned to die;which is clear from the pra&ice of David, Pfahn.x-xxix. 13. where te pvaye^h, ‘that the Lord wouldQpqrt nim a little.5 It is alfp clear iVam the pradticeali good Iftzekiah,' ifaiah xxxviii. 3. when \ie wascommanded ‘ to. fet his hoofe in order, for he Ihoulddie, mid hot live,’ he crietb out, ‘ Remember nowO Lord, how I have walked before thee in Jruth,and with a perfefl heart, and have done that which isgood in thy fight: aod He^ekiah wept fore or, nsthe words ate in the original, * he wept with greatweeping.’ But, to guard this, take tfiefe two cau-tjpns.Caution 1. .Thy define to live (when thou art fum¬moned to die) fhonld not be ptremptpry, but withSibujlffion to the will of God, that if it he his plea-fnre tb remove thee prsfently put cf tipie, thoufltould be content to die.Caution' 2. Thv. defire to live fhould have graciousprinciples, and alfo a very .gracion? end, as is moft.dear from David. Pfahn xxsix. < 3. wh«re -iic faith*• O fpare me a little, that I may recover ftrength,before f go hence,' and be no more.’ His defire tojive was, that h^: might have \i6tory over his ifipls*jis if fie had fait), my Jefire tp live is, that I .mayfnitaibk Preparation for Death. 7have ftrength to wreftle with, and oveicome my idols.And without all controverfy, 'Hezekiah’s defire was ainoft precious and well grounded delire. r owevtr,1 would-fay this unto thee, that thou fhouklft •etfmrn'hethy defirssto Ike (as much-if not more) as tn-y defiresto die ; fov, we are'ready -to'(bun death, -if wt could,but he. is that noiverfal King, unto whom all ot trsjfnuft be fubjtdi ere long.Now,- in the words which are read unto you, thereare thete fiz things, which might be dearly obieryed(torn them.L That it iff a moft clear and infallible truth, thatall perfous (hall once fee death, as is clear in thetewords, ‘ who ic, he that liveth, and flrail net feedeath ?1*1. That this truth (that we fit alt once fe'e death)is not much believed or thought upon by many ;therefore, it is that;-the Pfahnrft doubieth tTitv ‘her-tion, 1 What man is lie that liveth, and .flwdf not feedeath; (hall he deliver his fouP (that is,' !:>« TSe-f* from the hand’ (that is) ‘from thc.-pcA-Hr rf thegrave.III. That fometimes a Chriftlan may win to the.' frt-Kd faith of this truth, that once be 'mnft dte ; *thk thePfalnhft wan unto, as it is alfe clear in that word (who.)* Who is he that Kvetb, aodthall not fee demfh PIV. That the certainty of this, that once we (halldie, (hould be (till kept in our mind ; . therefore, thatnote of attention, Selah, is'put to it. As if he hadfaid, take heed, that thwe is none living that (hall.not die. . v:.V '*dt b. ;1^ V. That howbeit fome perform put the evil day Taraway, as if they were not to fee death; yet, is. theeiay cvrrniirg when they (hall fee death* and .death (halltake them by the hand. .VI. We (hall take notice of this frojri the context,that the Chrihian, ovho is much in minding the dtrevt-ty of his life, will believe tire certainty of his death:the Pfalrniti was fpenking of the (hortpefs of his life in. the preceding vevfe/ and, in this verfe, he fptakethof the certainty of death. . . ... i3 The great Importance of a'NO'*’, for the firlt of thefe things obferved, viz*ha: »i is certain and moil fure, that we fhall ail oncedie. I hope there are none of you here who will de¬ity, J.ihcr’ I conftfs fome few of you beHeve, what wasIrf-.d by the woman of Tekoah, 2 Samuel xiv. 14. ‘ Wemull all die, and be like water fpilt upon the ground,that cannot be gathered up again. God doth not ex¬cept the perfon of any.’ And Job xttx. 23. i‘ I knowmat thou v.-ilt bring me to death, ac,d to the houfe ap¬pointed for all living.* And it is very clear, Ecclef.v:ii. b. ‘ There is no man that hath power over theip:rit to retain the. fpirit; neither hath he power inin: day of death; and there is no difeharge in thatwar* neither (hall wickednefs deliver thofe who aregit\;» to it.’ It is clear, Heb. ix. 27. ‘ It is appointedunto men once to died So that if is mott clear that wemuft die. I remember of one iTiilip, king of Mace¬donia, who had one fubititnted for this very end, to cryat his chamber door every morning. Memento morivmemento mori, memento rntpri. Remember thou art tl> die.And, it is repotted to have been the prattice of thenobles-of Greece, and in the day wherein their emperorwas crowned, that they prevented a tnarble-ftone un¬to him, and he was enquirid after what fafltion hewould have his tomb-ftene made ? Which pradlice(peaks forth tin's unto us, that altha’ thefe were modtieftitute of the light of the feripture, they were verymindful of death. Believe me, death may fttr^j-ifeus before we be aware J for, it is moil certain, thatwe muft die ; but, there is nothing more .uncer¬tain than the way how, and the time when we (hallAie. • 'i*.Heath will furprife fome as it did Abel in the openfield, Genefis iv. 3. Death will furprife fome, as itdid Eglon in his parlour, Judges iii. 21. And, deathwwl furprife fome, as it did Saul and Jonathan in thefight, 1 Ssmutl xxxi.Now, in fpeaking to this point, I (hall, Firft-,Speak a little to thefe advantages which attend thofethat- live within continual fight X>f death. Secondly,1 (hall giye you feme, confiderations to prefs you tofu’table^ Preparation for Diatn. <*prepare for death. Thirdly, I fiia’i give you fomediredlioui to help you to prepare for death. And-thenwe (halt proceed unto the fecgnd point of doctrine,, which we obferved hop the te>:t, and l foall fpeafe afew things from it unto you, and to come to a q’oIcfor this time.Firit then. We conceive there are thefe feven nn-vantages w!>ich attend tho'fe.who live '.vithia the coc-1 timed fight of this truth, that they' tthf: die. * .Firft. The faith of approaching death, will make »foul exceeding diligent in d tty ; this was our bldfcdX.prd;s divitiity, jolitg ix.*t. ‘ 1 rii'uft vroik tlte work ofhim that fent rr.e, while it is day: the night cometn1 when no man can work $’ that :s, death is approach¬ing, therefore f mult work, ft is clear elfo, 2'Peteri. 12. compared with verfe 14. in.the iz. '.r,fe Peteris exceeding diligent in his dnty, and the ground ofhis diligence is in the 14 verfe, ‘ K nowing, that fiiortlyI mull put off this my tabernacle,’ &c. fet it is eventhe Epicure’s, argununt, * Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we may die.’ And, ihovihi Hot the Chriftian'mucii more cry out, ‘ Let me watch and pray, for tamorrow I may die.’ I fay, if the Epicures did makeufe of this notion, to make them vigorous in the pin-j fuit erf their pleafures, O how much more fhouid aChridian improve it, for making him vigorous in theI purfuit of his duty ? Therefore 1 fay umo you all, l>be ye diligent, for your night is drawing uear. O■Chridians and expectants of heaven, are ye not afraidkll ye be nighted before ye have walked the half nf, your journey ? For, if ye be nighted on your jour¬ney to heaven, before ye con e to the end ofyour race, there is no retiring place whrreuuto yemay turn afide to lodge. Therefore. ‘ O work,work, work, whilr it is to day;’ for, behoid death isapproaching, and then fiiall we uti be called to an a >; count. i-Second, The faith of approaching death, wiH makea Chridiau exceeding active in dutv, he will not onlybe diligent, but alio exceeding tenons, and -cealous inI the excrcife of in's dutv; this in clear from that nota-S.1 ' 'v - ’1 .1.0 The grsat Importance of atj'ie exhortation. Ecclef. ix. io. * Whatfoever thyhan(J:fin,deth to do, do it with all thy mightand thereafon is, * for there is no work, nor device, norknowledge, nor wifdom, in the grave, whither thougbeit.’ Wherefore, O be active, while you are alive,for ye lhall never work any more after ye are dead ;and, if yt leave but one Work undone, there is no do¬ing of k after death. ‘ There is no work’ (faithSolomon) ‘ in the grave therefore. Q be ac¬tive.Third. The faith of this truth, that we mu ft all die,will help a Chriilian to be exceeding mortilied to thethings of a prefent world. Oh! covetous men and wo¬men, would yon ftinke Hands with cold death but onceevery morning, 1 <h;uild defy you to puntre the worldfo much rl* ye do. Paul was much in the meditationof his change, which made him, z Cor. iv. i3. to'overlook tltrfe things that are temporary, ‘ Whilewe look not’ (faith he) ‘ at the things which arefeen, which are temporal, but at the things whichare not feen, which are eternals’ therefore, chapterv. J, 2, “ Knowing, that if our earthly houfe of thistabernacle were diffclved, we hare a building of God,an houfe not made with hands;, eternal in the heavens :therefore, in this we groan earneftly, ddiring to beclothed upon with ocf houfe which is from heaven.’What aikth you, Paul (might one have faid)- may yenot tike a look of the world ? No, faith he, ‘ For 1know, that if this earthly houfe of this tabeniadewire diftolved, I have a boufe with God, not madewith bonds, ~but eternal'nt the-hyavens that is, Iknow that4 ere long the pins of my tabernacle will beloefed, and it.will falf down tibout my ear?; there¬fore, .1 tiwft look for another dwdhug-honfe. And, iCor. vii 31. ‘ The fafliion of »his world pafftth away.*Therefore, faith he, verfe 32. ‘ I would have youwithout ciirefulnets caring how to pkafe the Lord.'And, Pfcn’Upptans iv. y. ‘ Let your moderation be^known unjo all men. The I,ord is at band.1 As if hebad faid, death is approaching, and at hand ; there¬fore, I intreat you to he fober. Hut I think many ofSuitable Preparation for Death. If113 will be found like Saul, hid a.TMMig the fluff; thatis, we will be lying ambngll the midil of the plta-fures of ihis paffing world.. But I fty unto thee, whoart fuch an one, that death will break, the firings, ofthy harp, thv tnufic will quickly ceafe. O but deathwill make thee to have a low efteem of the world. OblefTed is the perfon who hath thefe thoughts of theworld all along in his way, which he dial! have of itat death ! have not the moil curfed wretches been for¬ced to cry out. Oh! I would give ten thoufaad worldsfor Chriit ? Have not foore pcrfons (who have hadthe yioon upon their head, aud that 'have made theirbelly their god) been forced to cry out at death, Qcurfed perfun that I am, that ever I made the worldmy God ? Alas ! that I contented myfclf with theworld. Therefore,' 1 fey unto thee, who art fuck anone, O Hay thy purfuit ah tiu world, for death isapproaching, that will cauie aii thy worldly comfort*to evanifh.Fourth. When a Chriftian beiieveth this truth,, thathe muft die, it will be an exceeding great ri-flra'nt tokeep him from finning, as is clear, Job x\kI. t$. com¬pared with verfe 14.. where job reckoning ).er mariy'good deeds dene by himfelf, faith, ‘ What then fnallI 1 do when God rifeth up ? and when he vrfiteth, vrhatfhall I anfwer him f’ As if he had faid, firs, mitiak-cme not, I am not boafting much of mgf'.lf, for 1 couldnot have done otherwife, clfe what fhould' 1 do whrU(God rifeth up ? how could I anfwer to God if I had.d(> *e otherwife, I think it w.re a notable praftife ofeach of you, to fay, ‘ O temptation, what will i an«fwer to God, when he rifeth up to reprove me, if Lflvoiild yii.fl .into thee I’ l.kcwifr, ficclrf- *i. 9. whereSolomon, diffnading young men to pmfue after tbeirvanity, briogeth this as a reafon, ‘.know ye, that for ?Althefe thongs God will bring you into judgement.'Therefore, 1 fay unto thee, who art often tempted infin, let death and reckoning with God be jlili in thyfight, and I defy thee then to embrace half fo many1 femptations, as now thou doll, f entreat you to an-1 * ; -.xa TKe great Impcrtaiice of afwer all vour temptations with that word, 1 What fhaHI do ^hen God rifeth up ? and wh?t fnall I anfwerwhen he vifiteth raeFifth. When a Chriftian iiveth within the fight ofthis truth, that fie fhaU once fee death, it will makehim exceeding patient under every crofs wherewithhe meeteth. Such a Chriftian will hardly meet with arrols but he will quiet himfelf with this; death will putrne beyond this crofs, this is a cloud that, will quick*Jy pafs away. And for this caufe did David fo compof-edly put up that defire, Pfalm xxxix. 4. ‘ Lord makeme to know mine end, and the meafure of my days.'He was hire that the knowledge of his end, would puthim in. a fsber and patient frame..The Sixth advantage is this, the; faith of approach¬ing death, .will teach the perfon that hath it, to tlr.dyCaving vvifdom: tin’s is cle*tr, Pfalm xc. 12. vsjtere Mc-/ss puttrth up this rcqueft, So * teach us to number cuedays, that We may apply our her ts unto wifdom,’ Aeif tie had fail, 1 will never think nvyfclf wife, till Iknow that b'tffed part of arithmetic, ‘ ho v. to numbe-my da)*.’ I would defire every one of you ail to thinkwith yonrfelf every morning when you rife, now I ama day nearer unto eternity then l was before ; and atthe end of every hour, now I am .an hour nearer untoeternity then I was before ; I (ay, think often, yea, (jalways thus, 1 was never fo near my death as I am now;for, Oh ! are we net all nearer unto eternity to day,than we were yefterday ?The Seventh advantage attending the faith of ap¬proaching death, is this, that it will make a Chriftianvery careful in preparing for death. It is imnoftibJe forone to believe really that death is appro' ling, and■nor to prepare for it. Say wbat ye Will, if ye be notcareful in preparing for death, ye have not the femdf.tith of this truth, -that ye il'.all die. Believe me, itis not every one that thinketh he believeth this truth,that believetji k indeed. And, O how dreadful is itfor an unprepared man to meet with death? He de-ftreth not to die, yea, be would give a world for hi# |iffe, but die he rmiS, whether he will or not; forfuitablc Preparation for Death. i$death will not be requeiled to fpare a Jittle when hecometh. And therefore I fay unto yon all, * fet yourhoufe in order, for ye (hall furely die.’ Old men aiidwomen, fet your houfe in order, for to-morrow ycmay die, and be cut off in the flower of your age,*Think not that there be many who can fell time : for,I fay, ye fhall nevec get time fold unto you. Ala* ! Ifear that the molt part of perfoos that die now, deathfindeth them at unawares: for indeed the perfons thatdie amongtt us, when we come to vifit them we maygive you a fad account of them, for we think they arecomprehended under thefe four forts.i. When we go to vifit feme perfons on theirdeath-btds, they are like unto Nabal, ‘ their heart isdying and finking' (like unto a ftone) ‘ within them,'they are no more affected with death, than if it werea fiacy ; alas ! for the great ftuoidity that hath over¬taken many ; therefore, 1 intreat you delay not yoarrepentance till death, left the Lord take away yourwit, fo that ye cannot repent for your fenfeleiTurfsandAupid frame of fpirit.A fecond fort we find in a prefnmptcous fra ore.faying. They have had a good hope all their days, andthey will not quit it now ; they will go down to theicgrave with .heir hope in their right hand, or rather,they will go down to the grave, 1 with a lie in theirright hand they live in a prefumptuous frame, andthey die in the fame deluiion. For, when we1 t\ilthem, by all probability they are going down to hell,they anfwer, God forbid, I wi.s all my time a veryhoneA man or woman : but I love not that confeffion,*for there are many fuch hooeA men and women in heMthis day.J. The third fort we find having fomr conviction*that they have been playing the fool-ail their days; butwt can get them no further: I (hall onlv fry to fitch,to go down to the grave with convictions in theirbreads, not in iking ufe of Chrifl, is 10 go down to hellwith a candle in their hand,..to let them fee the wav tand truly the greaidl part that die, dt- in that man¬ner.(4 ' The great iropwtence of a.4. There ate force whom we find in a felf-vighte-ou* frame, reding upon the covenant of works, andtheir own merits, and truding hy thefe to go to hea¬ven } yet nsglefting the offer of Chrifl’s righteonfnefs.But alas ! we find not one of a thoufand of this frame.* I defire to be dififc'red and to be with Chrtft, whichis beft of all.' And fcarce do '.ye find any in fuch aframe, * Q wretched man that I arc, who Ihall deliver |ime from the body of this death !5 therefore 1 fay thisunto you all who 'are here, G ! will ye mind death, tbefore it take hold on you? Oh! mind your wotk. j!now ? for ye will find that death w’ll- be work enoughfor at felt, though ye leave no work till-fheiv.The Eighth advantage that attende'th tl.e Chriilianin believing this truth;, that once he mud die. h this, 1death wtH not be fo terrible to him as it is unto many |whan it cometh. Whx>t (think ye) maketh death a kingof terror? ? What maketh many to-thske as the leaf of atree, when they are fumrconed to appear before God’stribunal? It is even Lecaufe of this, they have not beenthinking on d^ath before, it came, fo as to prepare fbti.t. And ! fear many in this place may be afraid-fordeath, and that when it cometh'to them, they will fiiyunto death, as Ahab faid to Elijah, ‘ Haft thou foundme, O mine enemy ?’ Surely death will tv.e you, andbring you to the judgement-feat of Chrift ; therefore,ftudy by all means to think often uport it, and make,feady for it; believe me, death is a very big word,far it will once make yon ftaod with horror in yourfouls, if your peace he tret made up with God: 1 knownot a more dreadful difpenfalion than death andguilty confcience meeting together.The Second thing that I fhall fpeak unto frOm thisfirft obfervation, (viz. This is a moft certain and infal¬lible troth, that all perfons ihall once fee death) Jlrtllbe to give you foroe confidevations for periling you toprepare for death.The Firft confideration is this, ‘ to die well, and itithe Lord,’ is a moft diificbk work; therefore .1 ^ntreatyou to prepare for death, It is a difiicult work to com¬municate aright, it is a difficult work to pray arightfuitflbk Preparation foe Death. , 15and it is a difficult vvorkto confer aright; I muft tell you»it is a more diflicult -work to die aright, than any ofthefe- It is true, it is more -difficult to cornmnnicnte:aright, then to pray aright, yet it is much more diffi-' cult to die aright, than to communicate aright, for itis a more difficult work to die in the Lord. Death wallput che mod; accurate Chriftian that is here to a won¬derful ft arch, and therefore I will tell you nine thingsthat death will try in thee; 1, Death will try both thereality and llrcngth of thy faith. It may be eafy forthee to keep up faith under many difficulties, but deathwill put thy faith to the greateft lirefs chat ever it didmeet with. Yea, know thy, that the faith of theP.rongeft believer may get (and ordinarily doth get)a fet at death, the like whereof it never got before;therefore prepare for de^th. 2. Death will try thylove to God : fume perfons prbtend much love to him,but death will propofe this queition to fnch a per fan,‘ Loved thou him mare than thefe : Loved thou himmore than thy wife, more than thy houfe, more thanthy friends But your unwilfingnefs to die, giveth usnAsch ground to fear that many have little love toChrift, but much to the world, mad to dare not anfwet'’the quedinn, ‘ Lord thou kworjd that I love thee.'3. Death will try the enjoyments; feme of yon maybe ready to think that ye meet with many enjoyments,lb that ye may reckon (as you think) to fmty enjoy¬ments and fwcet out-lettings ; hot beware that death!bting them not down to twenty : I have known feme*-who thought they have met forty times with God, butwhen death came, it made them lake down the c-xtritto the half; therefore, feeing death will try the' real¬ity of thine enjoyments, O prepare for it. 4. Deathiwill try th'y patience. Thou mayeft feem to have muchpatience'now, but when death comerh (and thou artIpnt to dir) it will put thy patience to a great trial,therefore prepare for it. 5. Death will try the rbal-iiy of thy duties, yea, even thefe duties wherein thouhadd mod latisfadlion, as tjiy communicating arightin foch a place, thou hoped that is hire; thy readingthe feripture at fueh a time aright,'thou hoped tha( i*1 '*I ‘ - ' ' '  16 The great Itnpartance of sfare; thou prayed ft at fuch a time aright, and hopeftthat it fnre^; thou meditatedft in fuch a place aright,and hopeft that is fure : but (believe me) death maymake thee change thy thoughts; for there arc fomeperfocs who have communicated, and prayed. See. asright as ^ny in {hr generation, who (for all that) willtiot find fix du|tes wherein they can find fatisfaefiod atdeath ; therefore, our need is great to prepare for it.6. Death will exceedingly try thy fincerity when itcometh : an hypocrite may go all along his whole wayundifeorered* yet death may bring hirrr to light, andmake it appear what man he is. 7. Death will difeo-ver unto thee many hid an^fecret (Ins of which thou ne¬ver hadft a thought before, yea, albeit thou thoughteltthere had been forgotten, death will let thee fee themftanding'between j.hee and the light of his countenance.S. Death will accurately' try thy mortification, femewill think they have come a great length in mortifi¬cation ; but (believe me) death will try it, and put itto the touch-hone. 9. Diath will try thy hope, whe¬ther it be real or not. I (hail only fay this, that allthe other graces inuft low the fail to faith, and fo it is,faith rr.uft carry us through, being the lail triumph-ing grace, which mi]ft fit the field for ns, when allthe other graces v.-fl faint and ly by. It is faith thatmuft eater us fairly within the borders of eternity ; itis faith mult gain-ftand all the temptations of death,yea, all the other graces mnft (as it were) (land by,and fte faith fitr.ike.tiie laft ilroke in the war.The Second confederation to prefs. ypa to minddeath, is this, that yc are to die but once, and thewrong doing of which, .can never be helped. If r'Cpray »at aright, ye may get that mended, and, if remeditate not aright, ye may get that'mended, reid, itye communicate not aright, ye may get that mended :but alas! if ye die not aright, there,is no mending crthat; therefore, O prepare for death, that ye rnaydie well, fceiiig you are to die but once.The Third conlideration to prefs yon to mind death,is this, that they are. pronounced bleffed vho die in theLord, Rev. xiv. 13. ‘ lilt fled are the dc-d which diefuitable Preparation for Death, 17in the Lord.’ O let that provoke you to prepare fordeath, that fo ye may die in the Lord, that is the on¬ly way to make you eternally happy, I confefa it is aqueftion difficult to determine, whether it be more dif¬ficult to Jie well or to live well ? i frtall not anftver it*but rather defire you to dudy both.The fourth confideration to prefe you to preparefor death, is this, viz. That tho* thou put all thy workkby thy hand before death, yet fliait thou find thatdeath thali have work enough for itfelf, yea, as muchas thou (halt get done. .-It will then be much for theeto win to patience, it will be much for thee to win tothe fight,of thy juftittcctson; and it will then be muchmore for thee to win to allurance. 0 ! then is it notneedful for thee to put all thy work by hand beforethy latter eud come; Wherefore, I may fay to you asMofes faid in his fong,- Dent, xxxil. 29. ‘ O. that theywere wife, that they uaderftood this, that they wouldconfider their fatter end !’ O that ye had this piececf divine vvlfdom ! 1 pray yon confider that fad word,Lam. i.- 9. ‘ She remen.bercth not h'er lad end andwhat of it ? * therefore fhe came down wonderfully.*So will the down-coming of many in this generationbe wonderful, who confider hot their la.ll end.The fifth confideration for prdung yon to preparefor death, is this, viz. ffhat their labour (hall i.nd, buttheir work (hall not be forgotten, as is clear from thatforfeited place. Rev. xiv. j 3. ‘ They reft from theirlabours, and their works do follow them and is notthat a glorious advantage ?The Sixth confideration to prefs you to prepare fordeath, is this, viz; That death may come upon you ereye be aware ; ye know not but death may ftirprife yo*this night before ye. go home to your houfes ; andtherefore let that prtfs you to iludy a confta-at prepar¬ation for death.The Seventh confideration to prefs you to prepare fordeath, ifchis, vii. ‘ That as death leaveth you, (6 w.idjudgement find you If death /hall leave you itrangersto Chriil, ye (hall appear before him ft rangers to him ;there fore, I irttreat you ail to prepare for it. I thinki 8 The great I mportance of athat , noble piatuce of Panl exceeding worthy of imi¬tation, i Cqr. xv. 54. ‘ I die daily.’ WbicL I thinkdoth coaipichehd tlufc three things : 1. That Paul haddeath always in his light, j. 1> eompreheudeth this, |Unit he eitcicavpnrtd to'keep h>ch a frame as everymemofe he iliotild be ready to die ; £b that who-ifiever death fh.-iiid put the wnmpns into his hand, hewould be content to anfwer. j. It ooTupreheudeth ijtltis, that he lahonrcth to lay afide pud retsmve allthings put of the way, that might detain him fromlaying down his Jabernaole. Oh! faith Paul, I labourto clear myfelf of ail'hioderanoes, as thar whetKyer l(bull be fujumored to remove out of time, I may wil¬lingly lay dovyn my hie. Therefore, 1 would alk youthis eueltion, viz When (hall ye make your iaft tefta- (/uect ? I think it were fuitable for us to he renewing«ur letter-will every day ; for, in fo doing, Paul madean tucellent teftament, the better of which none thatdied ihiee have made, 2 Tim. tv. 7 8. ‘ 1 have fought.a good fight, 1 have finilhed my conrfe, I havo keptthe faith ;* thtfe are very fweet -articles j and then headdeth, ‘ henceforth there is laid up for me a enowof right eoufnefs, which the Lord, the righteous Judge,flial! give me at that day-’ And think ye not that ve¬ry fweet, that he would Iea\« fumethirig unto you inChrift’a name ? viz. ‘ hpd that not. for me only, butfor all them that wait for his appearance.’ Now Icome to the third ahir.g propofed,-viz. To give fomedire&iuns for helping you tp prepare for death.Direction 1. I entreat you be much in preparationfor death every day,, for it is even a .preparation forheaven, to be taking a fight of your, grave and latterrfnd every day.Dtredaon 2. 1 entreat you be much in tihefie duties:-Firft, In fdf-rjtamination ; that your counts may beclear with God, for many a ragged count (ball wehave when death av.-d we (ball ipfet. Secondly, Bemuch in the osercife of repentance, that H ye mayhave every fault and corruption in you mourned lor,before death and you meet. Thirdly, Be much inthe exercife ;of faitii, 4 t aking your calling and eke-faitaole Preparation for Dczvth. I§)tion Cure * Fourthly, Be. moch' in the exercife of mor¬tification ; and that w;ill help you to keep a lobfe grip,not ofily of the world, but alfo of your idols: and ifye be much in thefe, ye Iha^ undoubtedly be preparedfoi death.Diredion 3. Be much in minding tht, iccllcntthings of heaven. t\ Chridian that would Be prepar¬ed for death, fhould have ail his thoughts and conver-fatton there. 1 think it would be an excellent help (inpreparation for death | to take a fight of the crown c*very oay.Direction ‘ Labour always to keep a good con¬ference, void of offence towards God and man I fay,labour to keep thy conference clear, and that (hail be^ continual feaft Unto thee.Dhefiion 5. Slight not thy known duty, do notcrucify any convidbon, neither break any -rtfolution,put thefe three together, and that will exceedinglyhelp you to prepare for death : l fay, See that ye ad¬venture not to flight any known duty : See that yeadventure not to crucify any conviction, and fee thatyg adventure not to break, your re folia ti>> ns.Now we come to th.e fecond thing which we ob-ferved from the words, viz. . Fuat this truth, that wefhall once foe deaty, is got much believed by any ofits. And to make this appear, vve (hall only give fooaeevidences untp you, to prove that we are pot as yetprepared for death*» Evidence. Doth npt the unfpeakahle flupiditythat hath overtaken many, fay. That we are, not apeople prepared for death! .Ala*! many of us .wouldlind. ourfelves in i moft' llupid temper, ;if Wf wereprefcutly tp die; for many, of us are no more movedwith the threatening* and terrors of God, tlian if theydid not, belong unto us; and this faith, we are not aayet prepared for death. '2, Evidence, That wc are not prepared for death,is our purfnipg fo much after the vain and palling de¬lights of a prefeat world. Many of us rife up ‘ early,and go late to bed at night, and e»t the bread of furrowall the day, and load oilrfelvcs. with the tlfi^k clay /JOTLf great Importance cf aana I am fare that fach a p’-fon (being night and daytaken ap *'th the world) is not pi paved for death.•I remember a word rv < ‘.dcd of fuch a wretched ore,who was exceedingly rich, ■laid he, “ I would give fo“ m *'v ilvoufands of money, if death would give mebut yet lie got it net. And, O how fud-denly will death furpri;- many of us, as it did him.p. Evidence.' \Vhich fpcaketb forth ctir tt'nprepar-eduefs for death, ta our impatience under every petty-crofs that we meet with ; for the prepared Chrilluu■wiil be patient under very (harp erodes.4. Evidence. That we hire not prepared, is ournot er.dfaeorrinr to live within Jiaht of our intcrcll ino *.»<rod. Oh ! if we were prepared for death, durft r.clive in fo much uncettainty of our iuteieft in God, andof our air>irauce of htaven.y. Evidence. Scree of us can let or.r idpls !y incur breads fix -years without repentance, and will ne¬ver itmiy to mortify them, 1101 to repent for them ;and ftirely fuch are not prepared for death.Now l ir.treat you ferioufly to mind what hath beenfaid, and that you may the mere krioully think up¬on it, I will tell yon feme material challenges that.youf-conference at death will prefent unto you, the: eforetake heed, that you may know flow ye will anfwcr.t; Challenge, Is the,flighting of much precious tinre,'and finning ayray tfie precious offers of grace. Oh!what will ve anfwer to that challenge when death♦1‘i.ii prefent it ueto you r Death will fay (or ratherthine own confdience at death) what ailed thee to finfo many hours without either praying, reading, ormeditating ? Now* have ye any thing to anfwerwhen death (hall prefent this challenge to you? I in¬treat you premeditkte what you will fay : I intreatyon prevent death; by prefenting it firfl feriojfly toyourftlves.t. Challenge, That death will prefent Unto yoo,will be for the killing of many pn-ious convictionswhich ye have had. What will each of you anfwerat death, when ytnir ecnfcience propofeth this chal¬lenge uitfo yon i Thou metteil with fuch a challengefuitable Preparation for Death. 71at fuch a time, and went home and crucified it: Whenat another time, thou met with another challenge, andwent home and'crucified it ; thefe challenges will belaid to thy door, therefore think on "them.3. Challenge, Death will challenge you far aformal hypocritical way of going about duties : I fay,your confcience will then tell you, that you went tofuch a communion with a felhlh end: And, at'a not hertime, ye prayed hypocritically and formally. And,what will ye have to anfwer when you meet withthefe challenges ? I confefs, I know not what yecan anfwer to thefe, but I charge you, be thinkingwhat ye will anfwer, for it may be that thefe con-vi&ions (hall ly on your confciences, that even th*;.day ye have heard two fearchiug fermonc, and did,meet with forne con visions, but made no good ufeof them ; yea, and it may be ye did deep all. the ti ne.CHi! what will ye anfwer, when it lhall be faid toyou, ye went to fucii a fef.mbti, and flept all thetime ? An.d ye went to fuch a communion, with no 0-ther end before your eyes* but to be feen of .men ?I intreat you coulidcr prefeutly what you will anfwerto thefe.4. Challenge, Will be for your breaking of manyprevious refolutions. It will be faid t r-fo-ne of you,that at the communion in this place, ye took on voivs,and did break them : I am fure ye cannot, epieftiotithe jullice of the challenge, therefore fee what ye willanfwer. • ,5. Challenge, Ye flighted many precious offers ofthe gofpel. O men and women in this city, whatwill ye anfwer to this ? I was often exhorted totake Chrift, aad yet would never take him. Whatwill confcienqe fay to that, when death (hall table itbefore you ? I tell you what ye mu ft then anfwer;O curled I, that ever I reftifed Chrift in the gofpel.And ye (hall then be confounded becaufe this is yourCn ; believe me, there was mfver an offer of this e-verlafting gofpel, and of Chrift in made untoyou, that fhall not at death (before or after) bebrought to your remembrance. And Oh! how fadii The great Frr.p^tance of aarid doleful will it hs to you, when Ciiriff Hurt! openthe book wherein a’t yo’nr fma are written, and beginwith the fin of uightiiV^ the great falvation ? ThusI invited you, when ye were ♦ we!ve years old, but youwould not come. $7ust win ye arifwe'r to this ? Haveye any thing, to', fay ?: Or, mult you not (land fpeech-iefs before your Judge, When lie /hall put home thischallenge unto you ? TheleTore, .think fenoufly uponit, hoyv you will anfwci* it.6. Challenge, Will be for your finning oftentimesagainft light; and, O !. Bow painful arid fad a chal¬lenge will that be at the day of death ! when it willbe laid, thou finnedll with a witnefs in thy bofom thattdloO waft doing wrong! Thy confcience will fay,oftentimes did 1 tell thee, this is finful, yet wouldftthou not abftain from it.; and what will ye apfvver tothis ? . " . . - .Challenge, Ofjentimes ye finned upon veryfnvall temptations, arid what will ye ?,nfwer to that ?muft ye ifot then confefs it, and .fay, O! how, oftenhave t deferted Chrift, and embraced my idols ujiona Imall temptation ! Now 1 ejitreat you, be think¬ing what yc will anfwer to thefc feven moft materialchallenges, which certainly fiiall be puefented to youat death. I' afftre you, ye mtift either anfwer yourchallenges in Chrill, elfe ye will not get them well an-fwefed. Therefore, I would exhort yon to embracethe gofpel, and Chrift in it; rind fo let death propofenever fo many challenges unto you, yc may anfwefthem all as David dicf, viz. ‘ God hath made with me‘ an everlafting covenant,’ (and that will anfwer allyour challenges) ‘ though rpy houfe be not fo with‘ God, yet l have the everlafting covenant to build my* felvation upon.’Now to prefs you to make ufe of Chrift, I {hallgive, you thefe four confideratjonsCon/ideration i If ye embrace not Chrift. now,tfeath will be very unpleafant unto you. O whatelfe can comfort thee, when going through the re¬gion of the ftiadow of death, but this, ‘ I am Chrift’s,* I am Chrift’s l* Is there any other thing cari com-fuitable Preparation for Dealft. *5fbrt ther in that'day, but only this, ‘ I anr CHri{l,Sj‘ and he is mine !'Conlideration 2. If ye embrace hot Chrift, andI the great fairation now, ft will'be an hundred to ontif ever ye get time or liberfy to do it, vVlieh ye aregoing to die. For, although'many delay their clof-ing with Chrift till death, yet fcarceiy one of .a hun¬dred getteth favour to lay hold on Chrift at death ;therefore, think oh it, for ye will not get your mindfo compofed-at-jdeeth as you imagine, nor all thingsdo'ne as ye flip pole: Therefore, now embrace thegfeat falvtion ? , ^Confederation If ye delay your, clofkig withChVift till death feize upon you, ye fliall never be a-Me tb make up that lofs: For, will the dead rife andpraife God? Of, fh'all any.come from the land of1! forget fill tiefs, ttf take hold upon' a crucified SaviTi our? Therefore, 01 will you fake him fof your fal-i vation! -Confederation 4. If ye will take Chfift now, hefhall' be your guides ‘ when you are going throughH the valley and lhaddw of Death.’ And, O how blef-! fed is the perfon that can firig that fhng, Pfaim xlviuli 14; ‘ This is my God, he will be ,my guide even unto“ death.’ If ye can fing that pkafaut fong, O howt may ye be comforted, when your eye livings fhalljbegin to break? O how happy is he who can fay,11 though I walk through the .fhadow of death, yet‘ will I fear no ill ?’ for I know the Lord is with me ?Now this is the acceptable day, and the year of fal-"vation ; therefore, do not delay, but embrace Chrift,left death furprjfe you ere you be aware, and fo thatacceptable day be loft. But Unto tkefe who think theymay delay till death, I fay, Surely there are many1 damned atheifts in hell fhbt (fo.netimes) did think aaze think ; I will make all wrongs right when deathtnd l fnall meet: I hope that three days repent?neevill fatisfy for all my wrong. For, 1 am Hire, Therere many in hell, who did never get three days to: hink upon their former ways; therefore, O come,otne, and embrace Chrift prefently. Now, are ye2+ Tbe great inr.portance of a, &c.all perfuaded of this truth, that ye fhall once (endeath? Then ftudy a tender walkings for (believe ime) Iiere are many of us who dial! go through deathwith many bruifed bones, becaufe of untender walk¬ing before God. We know it is not the multitude of jwords can perfuade you to embrace Chrift, for manyof you never minded the thing. But (believe me) |death will preach thcfe things to you in a more ter- jrible manner than we can do at this time. There- Ifore, I fay to each of you, ‘ O prepare to meet thy ;Godfor, if death find you in an eftcanged ftate jfrom God, I defy the angels in heaven to free you 1out of that ftate; and the day is coming, wherein thou j(halt cry out," O (lighter of the great falvation chat I jam, [ would give ten thoufand worlds for one fermon Iagain, that I once heard, whefein Chrift was freely joffered to me : when thou (halt be tormented without !hope of remedy: Therefore, * while it is to day,harden not your hearts,’ for yaur late wilhes (hall not •be granted (when ye are .gone) if ye make not hafte.O tnerefore, hafte, hafte in time, and come out fromthe land of your captivity, and from the houfe of yourbondage, and take Cnrift fur your Redeemer, theguide of your youth and old age. Now, unto him,who can lead you through *li the fteps b nwixt yousnd heaven, be eternal praife. Amen.V I N I S.GLASGOW,Primed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarket, i8o£.