ANew HistoricalCATECHISMCONTAININGANSWERS TO QUESTIONSIN3nnrnt SJidtory,RELATIVE TOThe Light of the Heathen World—the Miracles thathappened at our Saviour’s Birth—the Usurpa¬tion, and Miserable Death of Herod—The Death of Pontius Pilate,&c., &c.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACNIE,And Sold Wholesale and Retod.1828.A NEWHistorical Catechism.I perceive yoa have had an opportunity of readingancient histories.Q. Give an account if the heathen world had anyglimmering light of a Redeemer, as was given toAbraham and his offspring.A. As history shews, they had a very clear light,for Adam (who had converse with God and withIhis angels) lived above 240 years after Methusa'am-was born, and Methusalem lived above 500 after3 Noah was born, and Noah lived about 60 years af¬ter Abraham was born, who might converse together;t| and in the days of Abraham lived Zoroastes, whoW was a heathen, or Gentile, yet a very learned mau,,ii and might converse with Abrahana and Noah, andi,i others of the most ancient fathers; for the Romansil had their learning from the Egyptians, and theI Egyptians from the Chaldeans, as the Jews from)1'1 Moses, and Moses from the Patriarchs, Ac.Q. In what age of the world did Job live }A. Job lived the second age of the world, and wasin the days of Abraham, Zoroastus j and, as Iris storyrelates, was a famous instance of patience, holiness,and virtue.Q. But does history relate of no prophet that wasi amongst the Heathen.or Gentile world, that did pro-Iphecy of a Redeemer among the Jews ?A. , there is evident intimation in the writ¬ings of Zoroastes, Concerning the Son of God, and4Hermes Trisongustus, who was his scholar, hadmanifest understanding of the second person of theTrinity, and calls him the first begotten Son of God,his only Son, his eternal, immutable, and incorruptibleSon. And after him, Orpheus, Hesiod, and the Pla-toists, who were Grecians, writ to the same purpose ;and besides those, there arose ten women, who, hav¬ing the spirit of prophecy, and was called Sybils, ut¬tered many speeches concerning Christ, ot his birth,and life, of his miracles, death, suffering, and resur¬rection, which they spoke in more plain terms thanthose of the Jews, but they understood them not,Q. Had not the heathen world many oracles, thatspoke and told them events, that was to happen ?A. The priest of Apollo, inquiring of his oracleconcerning God, and the true religion, had his an¬swer in Greek, “ O thou unhappy priest, why dastthou ask me of God, who is Father of all things,that most renowned King, and his dearly and onlySon, and the Spirit that containeth all, will shortlycompel me to leave this habitation, and utter no moreoracles.”Q. What answer had xAugustns Cesar when hewent to inquire of the oracle Apollo, at Delphos,who should be his successor, and what should happenafter his death ?A. The oracle was long silent; and the Emperorcontinued to offer many sacrifices, at length Apol¬lo as if enforced, said :—“ An Hebrew child, whichru'eth over all gods, commands me to leave this ha¬bitation, and to return forthwith to hell.”Q Was there not many remarkable prodigies thathappened about the time and birth of our Saviour?A. Yes j it is reoorded by Eusebius and others,that, at his birth, a fountain of pure pi! h/oke forth57i at a public iun at Rome, and run freely a vvlio'e day ;i and tlMf at noon in a fair-day, a circle was* seen! about the sun, as respondent as the sun itself. AndComester in his scholastic history affirms, that on theday of Christ S Uirtb, a «_mple at Rome, dedicited tothe goddess Pax, fell to the ground, which w as toldby the oracle of Apollo, that it should continue till a! virgin should bring forth a child, which they judgedimpossible ; and that it should stand for ever. Andlikewise Lucas searching in ancient Chronicles ofthe history of Spain, found there recorded, that thesame night wherein our Saviour was born, there ap-,;j peared in Spain at midnight, a cloud with so great aj light that it seemed like mid-day.Q. Was not these remarkable prodigies, which thenl| happened, applied by some learned persons to Augus¬tus Cesar, who then reigned prosoerously ?A. There was so, as Josephus testifies, but thell more divinely inspired, interpreted it to signify him,who Isaiah prophesied should have the governmentupon his shoulders, even the Saviour of the world.* Q. Did not the Senate of Rome offer to bestow thetitle of our Lord upon Augustus Cesar.A. Octaviouj Cesar, sirnamed Augustus, afterbis cival wars, wherein he was engaged with manyother troubles, and much bloodshed, was advancedto the imperial throne, and tbat'liberty, peace, andsecurity was then established, the Senate offered toI crown him with the title of Prince of Peace, whichsome write he denied that honour, afld unknow¬ingly said, that a greater Lord than he was to comeinto the world, to whom that title more justly belong¬ed.Q. Was not Josephus living in our Saviour’s davs iA. He was not then born in our Saviour’s days,lut Was bom five years after Christ’s passion, andwas thirty-five years old at the time of the destructionof Jerusalem!Q. Was Herod of the seed or blood-royal of thetribe of Judah ?A. Herod was a man of Idutnea, and being rich,politic, Kind ambitious, and very comely, every wayqualified for a courtier, that Hyrcanous, king of Ju¬dea, of the house of David, gave to him his daugh¬ter in marriage, aud made him governor in Clalilee ;and when Hyrcanus was taken prisoner by the Par¬tisans, and carried to that country, Herod tied toRome, and there, by the favour of Mark Antonyobtained the kingdom of Judea, though his father-in-law was still alive in Farthia. No sooner had hetaken possession of the kingdom of Judea, than be *caused all the blood-royal to be put to death, as like¬wise his wife Marianine, with forty of the principalmen of Judea, and all the Sanhedrim, of venty-two Senators, that ruled the people ; and burnt ailthe chronicles, and genealogies of all the kings andprinces of Judea, causing Nicholas Damascens todraw out his pedigree, and to affirm that he descend¬ed from the ancient kings of that country ; yet when!all this was done, Jesus, of the same house and lineof David, was born in Bethleham ; and then was ex¬actly fulfilled the prophecy of old Jacob, that the'sceptre, &c.Was there not several imposters that took theadvantage, and declared themselves to be Christ P jA. As all the traditions of the ancient Jews point¬ed at the coming ef the Messias in the reign of Au¬gustus, and all the people had such expectationof him, that several imposters took upon them thatthey were Christ, and led away much people, asJudas Goselins, and another Judas, both lewd fel-V7lows as Aatoages a shepherd, and two others call*ed Theudas and Egyp'us j but above all was Bar-cozhama, who was lor abova thirty years togetherreceived by the Rabbies, themselves for the Messias,but seeing that he was not able to deliver them fromtheir subjection to the Renans, at last killed him aslikewise Simon Magus, that be might not seem iti-ferier to ear Savicur, pretended that he ivr.s born of avirgin, as Christ was.Q. What is reported concerning the wise men ofthe East, who was directed Ly the star, and came to’ worship Christ ?iA. :t is reported that these wise men were littlekings, or petty Lords of particular places, such aathose which Jo|hua slew thirty in one battle. E-phipbanus is oPopinion that they came Jerusalemtwo years after Christ’s nativity, because Herod slewI all the infants of that age : but it is generally be¬lieved thp.t the star appeared to them two years be¬fore Christ’s nativity, and that they came to Beth¬lehem thirteen days after his birth, which the churchcalls Epiphan, or the twelfth day, or the day of thethree kings.Q. How came those wise men in the East to under¬stand the star that which then appeared to them, de¬noted the birth of the king of the Jews, or the Sa¬viour of the world ?A. St. Basil supposeth they were great astrologers,and learned men, who, by magic art, much prac¬tised in those countries, and seeing the power oftheir gods and oracles daily decayed ; and is pro¬bable, might hear of the prophecy so commonlyq spoken of in the East, that out of Judea should come£ the ruler of all the world 5 as likewise might havet! among them the ancient prophecy of old Balaam,/t8Ikat there should arise a star out of Jacob, <&rc. fromMoses’’ time, being about fifteen hundred years.Q. What was the intent of Herod for killing thchildren of Bethlehem ; and, what number were theslain ?A. Hered having obtained the kingdom by subjtility, hearing of this new King, feared he slioulbe dethroned, resolved u^ou his death j and aftelong expecting the return of the wise men, but iivain, imagined they had mocked him, entered into :strange passion, gave orders for killing all the childrenof Bethlehem, and the borders thereof, which he though■w^as about his age, to the number of fourteen thou¬sand, and also sent a messenger of death, thrice, towards John the son of Zachariah, who was now iithe second year of his age $ but his mother's earlycare of him saved his life, by sending him into desertplaces ; yet, amongst this great slaughter, he, whoalone was aimed at, was the only child that escaped jbut as the babes of Bethlehem died in the place ofChrist, so did John the Baptist’s father die for him.Q. What remarkable sign was left on the murderof Zacbariah ?-A. Tertullian, who wrote in the defence of theChristian religion against the Heathens, reports, thatthe blood of Zachariah so besmeared the stones ofthe pavement on which he was murdered, that no artor industry could wash the tincture out, as if Godwould upbraid the irreligion and cruely of the Jews,with a perpetual character of their guilt set beforetheir eyes indelibly, in exacting all the blood ofrighteous persons, from Abel to Zachariab.Q. Did the oracles then cease after the coming ofour Saviour ?A. Our blessed Lord likewise shewed his omnipo*9tency in silencing all the heathen oracles at hie birth,of which the Pagan authors took great notice j andit is related that the eracles of Apollo was oftenheard to complain of the Hebrew child that was! born, and to cry, “ Wo is me •, lament with me, forthe hour of giving answers to them who addressed myaltars, is now taken from me.’’Q. What became of Herod after his persecuting ofChrist in his infancy, and slaying the children in Beth-ilehem? ,A. He wore out his miserable life, and was mcontinual fear of his own wife and sons, who he *f-iterwards cruelly murdered. He fell inttr grief and;desperation, by reason of a loathsome and incurabledisease, of which he died •, having attempted to stabhimself, but was prevented by the by-standers.Q. Do you remember what is said to have becomelof Arehelaus, his eldest sm, who was a terror toiJoseph when he returned from Egypt ?A. He being left king by his father, Herod, yetlAugustus would not confirm the succession, hot in-Istead of king, made him governor only of the fourtfvigirt of his dominions-, and afterwards seizing on allibis estate, he was banished into France, where heIdied miserably.IQ. What became of Herod Antipas, brother to Ar-helaus, who put John Baptist to death, and scoffedt our Saviour when he was brought before him ?A. Herod, with bis concubine, before our Savi¬or’s passion, was both deposed by the Emperor Ce-us, upon accusation of Agrippa, his nearest kinsman,rand contumelously banished into France, and after¬wards into the desert places of Spain, where theywandered about in great misery, abandoned of all men,and ended their wretched lives.1GQ. Wliat became of Heredias, her dancing daugh¬ter, who required John Baptist’s head ?A. It is reported she being forced to pass over afrozen river, the ice broke, and her head was cut offthereby, without hurting the body, to the admirationof all the spectators.Q. What became of Herod Agrippa, who accusedHerod the tetrarch or governor of Galilee ?A. He having slain Janies and imprisoned Peter,was ... a public assembly of the princes and noblesat Cesarea, struck from heaven with a most horribledisease, whereby his whole body putrified, and he waseaten with worms.Q. What account can you give me of Pon¬tius Pilate, who pronounced sentence against ourSaviour ?A. He falling into disgrace in Judea, went I onicto Italy, and there, being neglected and discounte¬nanced by the emperor, hr fell into desperation, andkilled himself with his own hands.Q. Who was he that would he worshipped as God ?A. Caligula, w ho, in contempt of all divine power,would be worshipped as God, was murdered by hisown kindred.Q. Who was the first emperor that persecuted theChristians, and what became of them ?A. Nero was the first that persecuted them, andafter he had put to death Peter and Paul, the a-postks at Home, and murdered his own mother, ;brother, wife, and Seneca his master, was so abhor¬red of all, that the senate, condemned him to beput into the pillory, and to be whipped to death,which, to avoid, he slew himself, complaining, thatlie had neither friend nor foe to dispatch him. Thelike tragical death had the emperors from Tibe¬rius to Constantine the Great (who established the/11Christian religion, and died peaceably in his bed,) who,for three hundred years before few or none escapeddivine vengeance, whose miserable deaths, a nobleChristian, above a thousand years ago, wrote toshew that they all fell by the power of Jesus, besidesJulian the apostate, and Valens an Arian heretic,were made instances of divine justice, for their de¬testable enormities.Q. What befel the Jews for crucifying the Saviourof the world ?A. The Jewish historian relates such intolerablecalamities and miseries that befel them soon after ourSaviour’s ascension, as #an hardly be imagined, firstby Pilate their governor; and then by Protornius,under Caligula, and several others afterwards, whichmade them at length rebel against the Homans,which histened their utter ruin ond extirpation byTitus \espasian, with the burning of their temples,and destruction of Jerusalem, eleven hundred thou¬sand of them being slain in the siege, seventy-seventhousand taken prisoners, who were either put todeath, carried in triumph, or sold for slaves in allparts of the world.Q. What time is it said that this universal destruc¬tion of the Jews happened ?A. It is very remarkable, that their utter de¬struction came upon them forty years after ourSaviour’s death, namely, at the feast of the passo-when the whole nation, out of all countriesver.•a.idi)and tribes were assembled together, and that bythe hands of the Roman Cesar, for whom they hadrejected Christ, saying, we have no king but Ce¬sar. And as they apprehended Christ on mountOlivet, Titus planted his first battery for their de¬struction upon that mount, and as they led Christfrom Caiphas to Pilate, so they were hauled up and12down from John to Simon, and scoarged and tor¬mented before their tribunal seats ; again, as Jesuswas scoffed and beaten, and villainonslj treated by thesoldiers in Pilate’s palace, so were the Jewish noble¬men and governors, abused, beaten, and crucified bythe same soldiers. Josephus affirms, that 500 ofthem suffered this approbrious death in one day, in¬somuch that the place they died in would hardly con¬tain so many crosses, nor could they scarce findcrosses to execute them upon.Q. What became of those sixty thousand that Titussent as a present to his father, Vespassian, at Borne ?A. They were most all put to death for the Em¬peror’s pleasure, and Josephus says, he saw, withhis own eyes, fifteen hundered murdered in on dayby combats among themselves, and fifteen with wildbeasts, for the Emperor’s diversion, and others weremade bondfires of in time of triumph, and others con¬demned to -the quarries to dig and hew stones all 'their lives.Q. Was this of Titus the utter and total ruin of jall the Jews ?A. After Titus Adrian destroyed an innumer¬able multitude, and sent his lieutenant Severus to .• • 7 . . . *extinguish the whole race of them, who ruined ninety-eight towns amt villages, and slew 580 Jews in oneday, he razed the walls and ancient buildings of Je- ,rusalem, so that one stone was not left upon another, land changed the name of it unto Eliab, after that ofhis master, Elias Adrianna ; and made a law, that itshould be death for anv Jt^.vish slave ever to returnthither, or so much as to look from any high placetoward that country again.Q. As there were many of the Jews converted, andwere become Christians in Jerusalem, did these sufferin the destruction of Jerusalem ?A There were many that had embraced the do«~trine of the apostles and believed in Christ, in andabout Jerusalem; but Lanctanties relates: Thatafter they had put to death ihe two James’s, and ba¬nished both Peter and Paul and others, that Christ,who has always a care over his own, appeared toPeter and Paul at Rome, before their martyrdom,and declared, that within three or four years aftertheir death, he would take revenge on the Jews bythe utter destruction of Jerusalem, and that genera¬tion ; which, he says, they revealed to the Christiansin Judea, whereupon Eusebius said, they departedfrom Jerusalem, not long before the siege began, tobuild a town called Pilla, beyond Jordan, to whichJesus had directed them, it being under the govern¬ment of Agrippa, who being in amity with the.Ro-mans* would be safe.Q. Who was the first Emperor that embraced theChristian faith, and proclaimed liberty unto them ?A. Constantine the Great was the first that esta¬blished the Christian religion, died peaceably in hisbed, which for SCXPyears before few or none escapeddivine justice.Q. Which was the first heathen country that em¬braced the Christian religion ?A. Of all other nations in the world, none earlierembraced the Christian religion with more readinessthan the Egyptains, demolishing their idolatrous ima¬ges before any other heathen nation, and giving ex¬ample to other countries to do the eame, so they werethe first who, after the coming of Christ, returned tothe worship of the true God.Q. Do you mind the apology that Tertullian wroteto the Heathen Emperor, in the defence of the Chris¬tian religion, in the time of the fourth persecution ?A. In a few years Christianity was spread over ail14the world that the Roman emperors began to dreadthe effect, and their adversaries representing themas traitors and enemies to the government. Ter-tnllian argues with the emperor thus :—“ If we wereenemies to the state, you might then go and seeknow cities and countries to govern, since you wouldhave more adversaries than loyal subjects in yourempire. We have filled your cities, your towns,yo«r provinces, your castles, your fortresses, yourcamps, your tents, your palaces, your senates, yourmarket-places, and your islands, only we have leftyour idolatrous temples to yourselves, all the placesbeing full of Christians: If we were enemies, whatdangerous rebellion might we have made, thoughour numbers be but small, in comparison of the restof your people, since we so little value our lives, thatwe suffer ourselves to be slain daily, notwithstandingyour unjust persecution of us, we are,loyal, patient,and obedient, and that the Christian religion obligesus rather to be killed |han to kill.’’Q. What was the encouragement Cyrus the Per¬sian emperor caused to be proclaimed for men whowould inlist in his service?A. His proclamation was, that whosoever wouldbe his soldiers, if he be a footman, said he, I willmake him a horseman, if an horseman, l willmake him ride in a chariot, if he be a farmer I willmake him a gentleman, if he possess a cottage, Iwill bestow on him a village, if he has a village, Iwill give him a city, if he be a Lord of a city, 1 willmake him governor of a province, and for gold andsilver, I will pour it out on him by weight and mea¬sure, and not by tale.—This was the pompous edictof Cyrus to gain followers for the prosecuting his de¬signs.x\15Q. Was Christ's proposal after the manner ef Cy¬rus, to such as would serve under his banner ?A. No ; but contrariwise, his sermons were, Re¬pent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. In thisworld you shall have trouble, you shall be as sheepamong wolves, they shall deliver you up to thecouncils, and scourge you in the Synagogues, yeshall be brought before governors and kings, andshall be hated of all men for my name s sake ; andif any man be my disciple let him deny himself,and take up his cross, and follow me. Whosoevershall save his life for my sake, shall lose it; and final¬ly, he says, if any man come to me and hate not hislather and mother, wife, and children, his brethrenand sisters j yea, his own life also, he cannot be mydisciple.Q. His encouragements being so contrary to the na¬tural affections of men, did he get many followers ?A. Though Christ’s discouraging'doctrines, were socontrary to man’s natural and se*sual appetite, yetgained more hearts in forty years', than ever any mo¬narch in the world by proposing the greatest profitsand advantage to their subjects.Q. Did Christ leave any writings to his followers,as other lawgivers did ?A. Our Saviour left nothing written by himself,but passed out of this world in innocency and silence,without any ostentations of his own actions, thatthe prophecy ef Dzekiel might be fulfilled, “ Thatthere should be four undeceivable witnesses, whichday and night should, without ceasing, preach, extol,and magnify their Lord and Master.”Q. As there were many deceivers, who pretendedto be the Messiah, how do you know that this Jesuswas the true Messiah, or Saviour of the world ?A. We have the full assurance of Jesus being their» 16true Messiah, in that all the manifest prophecies,long before prophesied by the holy prophets, bothof the birth, lite, doctrine, actions, death, resurrec¬tion, and ascension, was punctually fulfilled while•lesus was upon the earth ; and we are hereby fullyassured, that he. was the Saviour of the world ; andwhich is more evident by what ensued after his as¬cension and departure out of this world, by consider¬ing his power, duly, love, care, and providence, hisperfect accomplishment of all his prophecies, and jus--tification of all his sermons and doctrines upon earth ;all which doth fully declare and manifest him to be thetrue Messiah aud Saviour of the world.Q. What account does Josephus, the Jewish histori¬an give of our blessed Saviour ?A Josephus writes thus:—“ In those times livedJesus, a very wise man, if it be lawful tp call hima man, because in truth he did marvellous things,and was master and teacher to them that loved him,and sought pfter the truth. The Jews and Gentilesfollowed him in great numbers j and though lie wasafterwards accused by some of the chief of our re¬ligion and crucified, yet he was not forsaken of thosethat followed him ; and three days after his death heappeared unto them, according as the prophets hadprophesied of him. And now, even in our days, thedoctrine and the name of Christians continue, and isspread all over the world.”Q. What is further related of the death of Christ,besides what we find in the holy Scripture ?A. In the S'ith year of our blessed Saviour’s life,lie was crucified by the wicked Jews, which pro¬duced prodigious effects, attested as well by Hea¬thens as Christians. At bis death there was a greatdarkeness in the time, from three o’clock, atwhich time our Saviour gave up the ghost, till six 517and yet there was no eclipse of the sun, it beingthen full moon so that it was only by the powerof God, who deprived the sun of its light for thatspace of time. And Dyonysis being that day at A-thens, and knowing by the course of the heavens,that this eclipse must be unnatural, cried out:—“ Ei¬ther the world is at an end or the God of nature suf¬fers.” And the w’ise men of Athens being astonishedat this prodigy, ordered an altar to be built, and de¬dicated it to the Unknown God j for which St Paulreproved them, relating, that Jesus Christ, the Re¬deemer of the world, who had suffered death by theJews, w.»s the Unknown God ; whereby he convertedmany to the Christian faith.Q. What account do the Romans give of Christ ?A. in the reign of Tiberius Cesar, Lentulus,the Roman governor of Judea, wrote the followingletter to the Senate :—“ There appeared in theseour days, a man of gre.it virtue, called Jesus Christ,who is yet living among us, and of the people ac¬cepted as a prophet ; but bis own disciples callhim the son of God. He raiseth the dead, and cu-reth all manner of diseases •, a man tall and comelyof stature, with a very reverend countenance, such asthe beholders may both fear and love : His haircf the colour of the chesnut full ripe, and plaindown to his ears, but from thence downwards moreorient of colour, waving down his shoulders. Inthe midst of his head goeth a seam, or portion ofhis hair, after the manner of 'he Nazariles ; hisforehead very plain and smooth ; his face withoutspot or wrinkle, beautified with a comely red; hisnose and month se formed, that nothing can repre¬hend ; his beard somewhat thick, agreeable totire hair of bis head, not of any length, but fork¬ed in the midst ; of an innocent look, his eyes being*.;»18\prey, clear, and quick. In reproving, he is severe.In admonishing, courU'ous and frundly. Pleasant inspeech, mixed with gravity. It cannot, be remem¬bered that any have seen him laugh, but many *have observed him to weep. In proportion of bodywell shaped, his hands and arms very delectable tobehold. In speaking temperate, modest, and wise.A man for his singular beauty, excelling the childrenof men.”Q. Did not the many miracles performed by theapostles, convince all, that they were done by thepower of God ?A. No •, for there were severals that caluminatedthem, as if they were done by magic art, and thepower of the devil, as Julian and Nero, and SimonMagus and others alledged, who emulating the mira¬cles of the apostles, studied the vain science, in orderto imitate them therein.Q. Do you know what became of this Simon Magus.A. This Simon Magus, by his subtile cheats,and diabolical devices, got him into high esteemwith Nero, so that the Emperor made him hisgreatest favourite, and the rest of the people ac¬counted him a God. The Apostle Peter being cometo Home, was grieved to find the people imposedupon by this sorcerer, was resolved to unmask thetricks and delusions of this vile imposter. A fit occa- jsion presented itself, as is recorded by Hegisippus.There died at this time, saith he, a young gentle¬man, near of kin to the Emperor, for the raisingof whom to life, there was a great contest betweenPetjer and the Magician. The latter challengedthe Apostle to perform the same, who, being strongin faith, readily accepted thereof, and when Magusand the devil were both baffled, not being able toeffect the great miracle, Peter, by the power of j19/God re.'tord the person to life. The people beingenraged to see how the sorcerer had imposed uponthem, were ready to have stoned him to death, hadnot the Apostle's charity and generosity rescued him.Yet this had so little influence upon him, that a whileafter he had the presumption or folly to enter uponunother bold undertaking, which was to fly up intobeavtm j but his art ticial wings, or his two invisibledevils, as it is said, failing him, he fell to the ground,with such broken hones and bruises, as in a few daysput an end to his life.Q. Was there ever an attempt made to rebuild thetemple of Jerusalem ;A. Yes ; Julian the Apostate, Emperor of Rome,who was one a Christian, but afterwards returned toidolatry, resolved to build the temple in despite ofChrist; and that this prophecy might not prove true.“ That one stone shall not be left upon another;”but when the workmen were laying the foundation, adreadful earthquake happened, and fire issued out ofthe earth, destroyed all the men, and dispersed all ihestones, so that there was not one stone but what wasseperated from another.Q. What happened at their laying the foundation ?A. There was a stone which slipt from its place,and discovered the mouth of a cave cut in a rock,but the overseers of the work not being able to seethe bottom of it, let down a labourer by a rope,and being come to the bottom, he was »p to iheancles in water, and found the place four square,and laying his hands on a little pillar above water,he met with a book wrapped up in a clean linencloth ; and being drawn up, the spectators were a-mazed it should be so fresh, lying in such a damphole. The book being opened, surpiiscd both theJ§ws and Grecians that were present, they finding■ e' ■.hit20in the beginning of it these words, writ in capital let¬ter. : IN THE BEGINNING WAS THEw'Ord, and the word was withGOD, AND THE WORD WAS GOD. Andindeed, saith the historian, that Sciipture did mani¬festly contain ail the gospel which the beloved disciple,St John, had declared.Q. is there not an admirab’e story of the greatMogul in the East Indies ?Yes ■, it happened some years before Sir Tho¬mas Row was embassador from James I. to hiscourt, that a Juggler of Bengal brought an ape be¬fore the Mogul that did many strange feats. The iking, to try his skill, plucked a ring cff his finger,and gave it to one of the boys to hide, which hepresently discovered. At last this fancy came intohis head. There are many disputes, says he, con¬cerning the true prophet that should come into theworld. We are for Mahomet ; the Persians mag¬nify Martis-Ally ; the Hindoos, or Heathens, extolArampn, Ram, and others ; the Jews are for Mo.ses, and the Christians for Christ. Adding severalothers to the number of twelve, whose names hecaused to be writ in twelve scrolls, and put in a ba- ison. This done, the ape put his paw among them,and pulled out the name of Christ. He then causedthe names to be written a second time, in othe:’ iscrolls, and the ape again pulled out the name ol iChrist as before. Upon this one of the Mogul’s fa- ivourites said, it was an imposter of the Christians, tand desired a third trial, with only eleven names,reserving that ol Christ' in his hand. The apesearching as belore, pulled out his empty paw.Whereupon the Mogul was told, that possibly thething he looked for was not (litre. The ape wasbid to search for it, who, bringing out these elevennames one after another, in seeming indignation, rentthem all to pieces, and catching the favourite bythe band, where the name of Christ was concealed,opened it, and held it op to the Mogul, without tear¬ing the same. Upon which the Mogul gave his keep¬er a pension, calling him the Divining Ape. Thetruth whereof, saith Mr Terry, chaplain to Sir Tho¬mas Row, was confirmed by several persons of diffe¬rent religions.Q. Is there not a strange relation of an apparitionthat happened at Mahomet’s tomb?A. Mr Knowles, in his history of the Turks, af-; firms as a certain truth, that, in 1620, a surprisingvision was seen at Medina, in Arabia, where Ma¬homet lies buried, which continued twenty dajs,terrifying the whole country. On September the20th in that year, a great tempest of wind, rain,and thunder happened about midnight ; but whenthe sky became clear, the people might plainly readin it, in Arabian characters, these words:—“ Oh !why will ye believe in lies ?” And between two andt''ree in the morning, appeared a woman cloathed inwhite, seeming to he compassed with the sun, havinga chearful countenance, with a book in her hand.Over against her were seven armies of Turks, Per¬sians, Arabians, and other Mahometans, in battle ar¬ray, ready to fight with her •, but the keeping her sta¬tion, only opened the book: at which the armies fled,and presently all the lamps about Mahomet’s tombwent put. For when the vision vanished, an hourbefore sun-rising, a murmuring wind was heard, t owhich they imputed the extinguishing of the lamps.Q. What events happened thereupon ? mA The apci^K pilgrims of Mahomet’s race were22much amazed to understand the meaning of it,when one of the priests made this oration : Theworld never had but three true religions, every oneof which had a prophet. First, God chose the Jews,and did wonders for them in Egypt, and broughtthem thence by their prophet Moses, and prescrib¬ed them a law, wherein he would have maintainedthem, if they had not been obstinate and rebelliousin falling to idolatry ; whereupon be gave them o-ver and dispersed them upon the face of the earth.Then presently after, God seat a new prophet, whotaught the Christian religion. This good man theJews condemned and crucified, for a seducer of thepeople, not being moved with the piety of his life,his great miracles, nor his doctrine j yet after hisdeath a few fishermen so moved the hearts ot thepeople, that the monarchs of the world boweddown to his very title, and yielded to the commandof his minioters. But in process of time they grewas corrupt as the Jews, the church being disjoinedwith the names of Eastern and Western, commit-ing idolatry again, by setting up-images, with ma¬ny other idle ceremonies, and corrupting their lives,so that God was weary of them, and forsook them.Yet God is still the governor of the world, and hathhimself raised up another prophet and people, evenour Mahomet, giving, him our nation ; so that nodoubt we shall be happy for ever, if we can hutaerve God aright : and take warning from thefall of others. But, alas ! I tremble to speak of it;we h^ve erred in every point, and wilfully brokeour first institution ; So that God bath manifestedhis wrath by eminent signs and tokens, keeping ourprophet from us, who prefixed a time to returnwith all happiness to bis people ; so that there areforty years past by our account. And doubtlesstS3this strange and fearful vision is a presage of some^ great troubles and alterations } for either the open*ing of the book in the woman’s hand, doth forelelour falling off from the first intent of our laws, where¬at the armed men do part, as confounded with theguilt of their own consciences ; or else it signifiessome other book wherein we have not yet read, andagainst which no power shall prevail. So that I fearour religion will be proved corrupt, and our prophetMahomet an imposter ; and then this Christ whamtiiey talk of shall shine like the sun, and set up hisI name everlastingly.”Q. What is related in ancient histories concerningJ tbe seven sleepers ?A. They were born in the city of l^phesus, inthe time when Decius, the heathen Roman empe¬ror, persecuted the Christians. These good men! being of that profession, whose names were Maxi-i milian, Malchus, Martianus, Dorinus, John, Se-i rapion, and Constantins, to avoid torture, add ther worship of Idols, fled into a cave in mount Celiou j1 where, after long praying, watching, and fasting,Iibfing refreshed with some food they had secretly.sent for from the city, they for heaviness fell asleep.Shortly after, the emperor suspecting they were in.that cave, caused the mouth thereof to be stoppedop with stones, so that they might die with hun¬ger. After which, Theodosius and RufSnus, twoChristian authors, wrote an account of t! eir mar-f\ tyrdom, supposing them to be dead, and inclosed!it secretly among the stones. Decius and that gene¬ration being dead, Theodisut, a Christian empe¬ror, succeeded after many years ; at which time acitizen of Ephesius designing to make a lodge forhis shepherds in that cave, and the workmen open¬ing the mouth of it, these seven Christians, that24had slept all this while, awakened, and saluted each# other, verily supposing they had slept but one night ; !and began to remember their heaviness the day be- jtore. They then sent Malchus to buy bread in the (city, and gave him five shillings. Coming to the Imouth of the cave, he. wondered to see the masons atwork ; and going into the city, found all things alter¬ed, and the cross set upon the churches. He thenwent to those that sold bread, and they spoke ofChrist: at which he much wondered, that there ;should be such a change since yesterday, when nonedurst speak of the true God ; but he was now pro¬fessed openly. But the coin was so old, that thepeople said, sure this young man hath found someancient treasure. Upon which they carried him be¬fore the Bishop and Council, where be declared, thatte and six more hid themselves yesterday in a cave, |to escape the fury of Hecius, and had taken thatmoney with them. The Emperor Theodosius beingacquainted therewith, he with many others, went andfound the other six chearful and hearty, their garmentsnot being worn by age or time. The Emperor here¬upon glorified God, embracing and weeping over themfor joy, saying, l receive you like so many Lazarusesout of your graves. They continued alive some shorttime after, and then died, and were buried in greatpomp and state by the Emperor. It appeared they !had slept two hundred and eight years.FINIS.