Two GodlylettersOf the pious Martyr'Mi. James Renwick,To TheRight Honourable the Society ofSr angers at Lewarden in Friez-land.1,;:To which is added, HisNEGATIVE duties.Pfal. cxii. 6. ■■ The Righteous (hall he in overlayingRemembr ance.EDINBURGH:Ffinted and Sold in Saviw-clole, 1751. Where if thismeec with goodEncouragemenr, there will be fev<«ral Sheets of Mr. Renwick’s Works printed per /e’LlSfex* OFSeOTUM. 'I( 2 )Mr. James ReNwick’s two piousand godly LETTERS to theRight Honourable Society ofStrangers at Lewarden in Friez-LAND.July nth, 1684.Beloved in our Lord,THE report of the continuance of your {ympathywith us, and of the increafe of your zeal forithe Lord of hofts, is greatly encouraging and;- refrelhing to me: And which thing, toge¬ther with thegreatunitenefsofmy heart unto you, im-.fels me to prefurae upon the writing of a line unto;you, tho’I be unapt to write unto any fuch, and knownot how to explicate my felf; for that which I main¬ly dedre is, to commend unto the world the lovelinelsof Chrift, the precioufnefs of his caufe, the caiinefs ofhis yoke, and the fweetnefs of his crofs (whereof I amLure, ye are not ignorant) But, O, this is a work abovethe reach of poor, ferimp, finite creatures. Who canthink, who can fpeak, or who can write of this ? Theimmenfurablenefs and freedom of the grace of Chrift.the boundlefnefs of his power, and infinitenefs of hislove, is fuch a bottomlefs deep of joyful wonder, where¬in thefe, who are made perfedf, are everlafiingly drown¬ed. What can we in this falling tabernacle fay or'•t think, who but fee in part, and know in part ? But O /j Jet us talce our eyes from beholding vanities, and feedtjiem alienarly upon the fulsels and all-fufficiency ofjprecious and glorious Chrift ; what doubts and fearscan we have But enough is there tofolve and anfwerijthcro all uaro us; and I think, if we poor creatures, when¬ever a doubt or fear did arife, prefently turned oureyes to contemplate Chrift’s free all lufRciency, weiwould find it immediately to evanifh (as difpelledjfmoke) indifcernable : But ah / our tempers are iicful-,ii ly ready, rather to pore upon our fears, than to em-Jploy Chrift for our help ; and hereby, the life which'I we might have of joyful praife, is turned inro a life ofjdifpondent anxiety. O, they thatfeeChrift to be their*,j can find no want"; and what mad fools, idle Perfons] and foolifh choofers are they, who make it not theirl work to have Chrift: Bur I confefs, Chrift, unto manyj (even that profefs much) is as the ample world is toj them ; they have a palling view of Chrift, with the! illiterate, illuminate eve of the mind ; but have ncitherj a renewed heart to affc£t him only for himfclf^ as the1 all-fatisfying and enriching pearl of price ; Others} think that they have a love to him, but their delires1 are after that which is his, and not after himfelf;I they defire liberation from the guilt and punifhment ofI fin, and a PolTeffion of a heaven, which they build upij to'themfclvcs in their brain; but thjty care not tho‘there were no fuch a thing as the Cbrljl. O / what afpurious love is this ? Can any in reafon think, but afuiter, whom a maid condefcended to match with, on¬ly upoff the account of his eftate, without regard ofhis perfon, had good ground to refufc fuch bafe andfpr.rious love 1 And how (hall Chrift regard the adul¬terate love of fuch felf-feekers? And another fort of folkcover over their pride with a vizard of humility, andcry forth, Chrift‘is a king, and they are fitting upona dunghil, how can they confent to fo great and higha match ? if they were queens they would do it. SueO ! that fuch would confider, that while they feekany thine in t'acmfelves to commend them to Chrift,A a they( 4 )they will flagger a nd flay away : But let them lav a-fide the"-eoyncfs, and once come to him and matchWith him, and he will make them queens and matchesmeet lor himfelf. Chnft comes to woo his Bride inthe garments of conJefcendency; he took upon himour nature, that he might fay to the worms of theearth yearemy brethernand my lifters: And, Oglo-rtous is he in theft garments, being alfo cloathed inthe robes of ravifhing majefty. How compleat andll0Vj a Saviour is he ? yea, how communicative ag*od ? fo that each of his own have him ft, as if notany other befjdes them had him: Each of us have asmuch of the fun, as we would have, tho’ there wereno others on the earth to partake with us; ft Is theenjoyment of that blelftd Son of righteoufnefs to all hischolen, each of them hath him all. O, what a bleftedenjoyment is this, which each of his faints doth enjoywithout envying or wronging one another! what afclcllcd choice ts Chrift ! what a lovely choice is he *° nr' iS [0V'ly’ he is lovcl>r’ and aI1 tb;lt chofc himwillfay, he is lovely, and that they have made a bravebargain. What was faid of the heathen Socrates, allthat knew him loved him ; and if they did not lovehim, it was becauft they did not know him. Indeedthey that love not Chrift, it is becauft they do notknow him. If he were known what a great, gracious,powerful, loving, beautiful and excellent One he is,the heart would be filled with love unto him. If hewere known, the fouls out-cry would be, he is altoge¬ther matchlefs! who is like unto him ? Love thinkeththe beloved hath no parallel; and love toveth all that*s the beloved s: Hence, as Chrift is lovely to his own,lo his cauft is precious, it is precious, it is precious, itis his declarative glory ; it is that whereby he makethhis name known. How honourable is it to be an own¬er of the fame ! what badges of honour are reproaches,and revellings upon that account ! as love unto him111 mi r Cauft precious, ft, where that is, nothingyvUl be thought too coftly to bellow, upon the caufesaccount .*t .,< s )iaccount: What will love not undergo ? what will lovenot forego for the beloved's honour ? We need noi:more to commend this common caufe unto us( than<this( it is Chfift's caufe , and feeing his glory is con-1, cerncd in it, that is our honour to be concerned with it;ISo love to the lovely one, or an upraking of his lovli-mefs which cannot but beget love to him, making his.yoke eafy. Love is as oil to our wheels, to makeI them runfa^ifcly and lightly, the way of his command-iments. O love makes obedience an eafy and plcafanctwork : For the command binds the confcience, andtloye gains the atfeelions : So, where confcience andin-Klinacton go together, it mull needs be an eafy work.-Chrift’s yoke was eafy and pleafant unto Davit/, Pfal.lexix. 127, 1 love thy Commandments above gold, yea,\ above fine gold ! And that which is greatly to be mark-icd there, is, as the world was carting of Chrift’s yoke,>lo David was raking it on more heartfbmly : They havemade void thy law, therefore I love thy commandments,Jtxc. faith he, a mark of a true love indeed; the morethat Chrift is rejefted and defpiled by others, the more••is he to be beloved by his own O what fkall befaid|of love to Chrift / Love is a refolute foldier for him,1 love is a valiant champion in his lifts; love defpifeth,0 miy f*y) wifneth for difficulties,, to get it felfllbowQ Love fees not a fpot upon all the crofs; love getsmever a bitter cup put into his hand, but the beloved’s1 frowns; it thinks not his crofs bitter, but reads de-I Iigntfornenefs engraven upon it; love will rejoice to; crofs the natural parts of the will to pleafe Chrift, lovetwill not ftand to venture upon the fwellings of Jordan1 with him and for him ; the heaps of great waters are! nothing in love’s eye ; the deeper that lave wades, iethinks it the fweeter , Ioffes, wandrings,toflings, death1 and dangers are nothing to love, for, Cant. viii. 6, 7.! Love is firong as death, jealoufie is cruel as the grave,the coals thereof are coals of fire which hath a mofi vehe-' ment flame , many waters cannot quence love, neither■ (an the floods drown it : If a man would give all thefuh-( <5 )ftartce efhis boufefor love, it would utterly be contemned *O what fhall I fay? Let us love Chrift, let us love him:3and exalt his grace ; and they that do not, nor never!Will love him, let them Anathema Maranatha. Now,*Right honourable and dearly beloved in our lovclyjLord, ye have exprelfed greatly your love to wronged!Chrift and his precious Cauic, by your flanding ftill to!condole and commiferate the calc of his mournful anddiftrefted people in this land : Ye have evidenced heart-fympathy with us; your hands- have not been bound |up from ,helping, ftrengthning and encouraging us; jye have been iuftrum nts to miuifter a refrefhful cupof confolation unco us; ye have ftood with us when o-thers have left us : O ftand by truth and duty ; keepthereby, tho’ all men fhould deny the one, and forfakethe other, let this be your ftudy and our ftudy, andfo let us ftand one with and for another : Let nothing;damp you, nor mar your confidence ; thecaufe is thoLords, he fhall prevail, he will overturn thrones andVkingdoms and get himfelf a name -• And amongft thefreft, the tribe of Levi muft get a clafh : But, go ye 00,1fet it be your only work to follow the Lord fully andhfincercly, and your latter end fhall be peace. Thusicommiting you all to the Lord, for dire&ing and up¬holding grace, for his making you in your places andrftations (as hitherto he hath done in a great meafure^.ibrazen-walls and iron-pillars againft all error and un-godlinefs ; and for his enabling you by his grace to.endure to the end ; that fo, ye may everlaftingly tri¬umph with him in glory. So, hoping that I need notdelire you to be mindful of a poor, wreftling, bleed¬ing and wronged Church ; and of him, whole lifeis wading through fnarcs, difeouragments, hazards,deaths and dangers", and who is,, Right honourable and dearly beloved in the Lord,Tour real and confiant friend and fervantin all Chriftan duties,TAMES RENWICK.To\ .(-7 )To the Right Honourable Societiesof Strangers in Lewarden in Frkz-land.February iSth, 1686.Right Homurable and dearly beloved in ourfweet LordtIHave had often blufhes with my felf, when Ithought upon my omitting to write unto you; hueI may fay, it was neither voluntary nor wilful, buCneceffitate: For, a man under fuch various exigenciesof providences, as I am, cannot be mafter of his owopurpofes. And befidc, that I am daily looking out;cither to be prefcntly died, where I may be found,or elfe draged into a prifon or fcafFold. Various;weighty and perplexing Occurences, day by day, comeinevitably into my way ; which take up my thoughts,filling my fpirit with care, my hands with buhnefi^But, if I had proven as forgetful of you, as I have beenblocked up from faluting you with a line from myhand ; I had been far out of my duty before theLord,and grofly ungrateful toward you. Howbeit, righchonourable and dearly beloved, I need not infill in a-poligizing for my felf with you ; for I know, ye havefuch a feeling of our burdens, that ye cqmmiferateour cafe, and pity our perplexities: Therefore, I’llbreak off this, and go on in what the Lord giveth me*<> fry- _There is no rational creature, which doth not letfeme one thing or other before its eyes, as its main endand chief good ; and according to the various predo¬minants in fenfual and mad-men, are their variousmain ends. Hence it is that there did refult fo manydifferent opinions among heathen philofbphers, aboutman’s chief good. But, here isthe great miftake withfoolifh.C 8 )foohfh, vaio men, that what ever they feek after it• Vwh° ^ bend towsrc{ true chief good,wh.ch is God There are indeed gods many6 andlords many : For whatever any fixeth his defines u-pon, and aimeth in all his aaions at the obtaining andenjoying thereof is his lord and his god , whether itbe honour or riches, or fome objeft or other of vilecoDcupifcencc ; yet there is bur one God, who is trulyand only deiire-worthy, love-worthy, and honour,worthy. This one hath not a match or a parallel *For what can equal him ? Yea, what in any worth',can come the length of the latcbet of his fhocs ? He isthat melhmable jewel, invaluable treafure, and incom¬parable pearl of price, that only Worthy deilre of allnations. O rake a look of him as he is the being ofbeings, having being of himfelf independent of all o-ther beings, and upon whom all other things dependin their being and operations In him we li‘ve, in himwe move, and of him we have our being. Do not allthe pieces of the creation, heaven, earrlfand fea, fun,moon, and ftars, the commonelt and umvorthieftcrea-ture that moveth upon the earth, bear large charactersothis wifdom, power and goodnefs ? Doth not hismyllenous common providence, making the fharpeftfighted of his creatures hid their faces, and become fi-lent before h.m ; declare him to be God ; and that heas of one mind, and who can turn him ? Do not thevarious Inftrumcnts that execute his will, fignified byfour chariots, Zert. vi. r. bringing about various dif-penfations, fignified by the different colours of the hor-fes; whether calamities of war, fignified by the red; o-ther doleful mifenes fignified by the black; mixed dif-psnfatioDs, black and white (fo to fpeak) of mercy andjudgment, fignified by the grizzled and bay : or dif-penlat.onsof mercy, fignified by the white: l fay, donor all thefe come forth from between the two moun-1 ^heLone fienifieth his unal-terable decree, and the other his effectual providence-.Which watcheth and waircth that inftrumenrs bringnothing( 9 >nothing to the birth, but what hath been conceived inthe womb of his eternal purpofe. O take a look of himin his perfedtions ; he is without meafurc and limits,without beginning and ending ; he is one and thefame in his nature, in his counfels, and in his love;he perfectly;knoweth himfelf; and all things that arepoilible, he can do all things which do not imply acontradidlion, and argue imperfeftion : Heisgocdanddoth good; he is righteous in himfelf, and equal in allhis ways of dealing with his creatures; he is truewithout any diflimulation; he is holy, and delighteth inhis own holinefs, and in every refemblance of it inhis angels and faints. But, O who can think of him 1And who can fpeak of him 1 He is infinite in all hisattributes; and every perfection hath a perfedt meetingin him: Albeit fome of his attributes be in fome de¬gree communicable to his creatures, yet they are all inhim, in an altogether incommunicable manner andsneafure; and there is nothing in God but what isGod ; for this is his name, I AM THAT I AM. Andag-iin, I fay, who can think of him, and who canfpesk ofhim?whocan comprehend him or compafs himabout ? Wkc by underftanding can fearch »ut God? Humbleand believing ignorance ifc better than curious and pry¬ing knowledge: For, all that we can knowofhim is,to know that we cannot know him. Let us yet comea little nearer, and take a look ofhim, as he is our Sa¬viour, in his condelcendency, love,, power, faithful-pefs, and other properties : O how condelcending is he,though he be that high and lofty one, the Fathers e-qual, yet he ftooped fo low as to take upon him thenature of man, and all the ftnlefs infirmities that at¬tend it; He became flefh of our flefh, and bone ofour bone, and that in the lowly condition of a fervant;he fuites the creatures afFedfion, as if it were of fomeworth, and fecks men and women to match with him;O how loving is he ? it is ftrong love that he bearethto that feed of Abraham: Doth not this fhine in allthat he hath done ? He emptied himfclf that they. niight( 10 )might become full; he made himfelf poor, tho’ mak¬er and polTeflor of heaven and earth, that they mightbecome rich , he fulhied the law lor them, that hemight purchale to them life and happinefs , he madehimlelt afacrifice unto the death, that he might fatis-fy offended juftice, and make reconciliation for them :O fuch a death / fo curfed ! fo (hameful ! fo painfuland fo lingering! but above all, he had the full weightof the wrath of God to bear ; which all the ftrengthof angels and men could not have endured : But he be-ios. God, he could not fall under it, O what mannerof love is this ? In effeff he did not care what he fuf-fer’d ; let juftice charge home upon him with all itsrigour and feverity, feeing he was to gain his point,and purchafe a part of mankind from fatan to himtelr,from fin to holinefs, from mifery to happinels ; So thatman, however unworthy, bafe, finful and miferable,tyetis the center of hi* love. O how powerful is he! he ismighty to fave, able to fave to the uttermou ; an theilrong holds of the foul cannot hold out againft him;his power is irrefiflable ; by this he can do what hewill ; and by his love he will do what we need : Aj'daoain, he is fo faithful, that what he faith he doth:He will not retraft one promife that is gone out of hismouth ; neither will he fail in fulfilling all his threat-nings. Much might be (aid of thefe things; but notthe thoufandth part of the truth can be told : Whenwe win to his houfc above, and fee him as he is, wewill be afhamed of all our bablings about him ; theythat have been moft ravilh'd with his love, and mofteloquent to fpeak forth the praife of his comlinefi andproperties, will fee that they have been but, at belf,babes learning to fpeak. O ? Wharfhall I fay • He isthe wonderful, matchlefs, and glorious, ineflimablejewel, and incomparable pearl of price. O but whowould not chufe him / who would not give awaythemfelves unto him / Let man look through heavenand earth, and feek a portion where he will, he (hallnot find the like of Chrift. O then ! let us be altogc-( II )ther his and nothing our own. Our time !ct it be his,our uoderiianding and w'ill let them be his, our affe¬ctions let them be his, the travel of our fouls letit be his, our ftrengch let it be his, our names, lives,and enjoyments let them all be his ; let us be-ful-!v (urrendrcd, and intirely confecrated unto him.This is a comprehenlive matter indeed. But whatclfe fhould we be taken up with, but with the im¬provement of this refignation, always travelling thro*his properties, viewing them as our riches, delightingto improve our intereft in him, by receiving from hishand what we need, and that he improve his intereftin m, by doing with us, and taking from us as hepleafeth. Let us fee him, and oblerve and fay, whathave we to do any more with our Idols. Oh that va¬nity fhould oct fo much as one look from me / I thinkhe never took more pains upon any, that they might beemptied of all things helides himfelf, and not have awill of their own,nor affeftion to any other thing; &yet, ah / the bad entertainment be gets off my hand :I can neither cHcem him my feif, nor commend him toothers, tho’ my work be to trumpet aloud his praife,and to be an under-fuiter to gain the bride’s confent tothe lovely Bridegroom ; I can do nothing in it, andlittle can angels do in it to any purpofe: Yet, I cantell this uoro all, that my Mafter infinitely paffeth mycomraendaiioo ; he is fo excellent, that, it would be anobfeuring of his excellency for me to bable about it. O!right honourable and dear friends, are ye not longingfor the full enjoyment of him, looking out for thebreaking of the day, and the flying away of the fha-dows, that ye may no more fee him darkly as througha glafs, but may behold him as he is, and enjoy himperfedlly and conftantly ? This, O this / what a hap-pinels is this! And what (hall l fay more ? for yeknow7 more of him than I can tell you; and alt that Ican fay, is, but (as it were) to bring you to remem¬brance.I thank God on your behalf, that your zeal is heardofr. f I* )of in many places. Ye have become companions withus in our afflittions ; your fympathy with this perfc-cuted party is evident to us all, and we hear that wehave a great Room in your prayers ; man cannot re¬pay your kindnefs to us, but I know you look not toman in it, doing it out of love to the Lord ; for yehave no outward encouragement to it. O that theLord, who hath joined together a tiw of U&arden anda party in Scotland, in fuch onenefs of mind and affe-£hon, may, when he returns to us again, join Scotlandand Friezland in covenant together, to ferve the LordjheirGod/ And ye, O brloved, grow in grace andendure to the end. I doubt not but you have laidyour all at Chrift’s feet. O take nothing back again :Be refolute in his caule, and valiant in his matters :^Vhcn his kingdom is fo low, let him want none ofyour help, that is competent for you, and he fhall helpyou; own him, and he will own you, ftand with him,and he will Hand with you, and make you vidiorious;whoever fight again!) you, ye fhall overcome ; It isgood fighting in Chrift’s camp, for all his foldiers fhallcertainly prevail. O look to your captain and encour¬agement, that ye fainr not. I apprehend that ycmeet with fore blows and bickerings; yea, I think,that yc fcarcely want any conflidf that we have, favethat ye are not as yet in fuch hazard of your lives:But, as nothing more than this doth endear you untous; So, no external condition will more draw out God’sheart towards you. But, this I will fay, be well re-folved againft whatever man can do unto you : I chinkno chriftian ought now to be fecure ; the man of fin isplotting and ftrengthning his force what he can, andhe will not be content with a part of Chrift’s kingdom;his aim is at all ; he ftirs himfelf now fo faft in hisfaddle, that I think, it is not long to his fall: Howe¬ver, many lands may look for ftrange plagues, tho*Britain and Ireland fhall be made the center of God’sjudgements; yet his indignation fhall not be contain¬ed( *3 )WW!thAth£ff limitI‘ ° juc,gCIIien» •' fudden and//rW W Ph U ^menjI arc coming on Britain and Ire-Jand Chnft mounted on the red horfe of feverity,iTni nd", throuSh the b/«drh and length of thirS r THC 7»)ear;l"ce of lom' Parties did fill manyf^1Por‘,1, cxPe^at10ns; but they did not makefome changc ch th h„ . As the/kncw ]ittlc ofhands 'kh° i°0kLCd f°r fuch g°od fr°m fuchadrf 1 S n,1 ' j0Ughc thcm who conjeftur’d thatadehvery fhould come before a defolation. I fay again.For rh rero,ved agamft what man can do unto you ror, there arc n., moreChriftians than there areMartvrsmuftb U;? anK affCf‘i0n •• Tbe k‘nSdomforb a u by v,oience> and ^e violent take it by°/v ’a Sr r' r°rr S, 8rMter d,fficu,'ies be in theway, a right light of the kingdom makes the way the^v*len looked upon at a diilaoce, t<J bieand mounting, yet when they and ye meet ve fhaflfind -hem nothing, jf 1 could commend any’rldng be-fide Chnft ,t would be the crofs of Chrift , Thdcthings which make carnal on lookers think my conditi¬on hard and m.ferable, make me think it fweet andweaWn^fs cdT T'1 hazardl> rePfoaches, contempts,defer "fo del raMe§ h W?ndnnSs> ,iorm>' and, de'jrable, that it is a greater difficulty to meJo them' 'o °US °fthCu thin^> tl,an to f-'lnnit un-wiSw. ° ZTJ" ,t lUl 'r “ hfbT“V»"“r be frl'ndl •» it .• Follow Chrift wi“has vour l^d0" yf°Ur aDdf™r file before youcreature ? et it be013" “ * ^ ^clblctime blocks Lft in y°Ur ""V0 fal1 UPun tbt ftum-blinp-blnrlrc • u y°Ur 'A’aryi neither to caft ftum-trt ;f Tbt °ycJ;r JrlriFl?Preached into reproachers ; Though the fowernef, 0fother*( 14 )ethers crievc you, yet let it aot infeft you; hut letzeal be accompanied with meeknefs, that ye may betree of pafibn and prejudice ; and let meekneis bebacked with zeal, that ye may be free of luke-wa.m-nefs and indifferency •• Let nteeknefs be =xtcnd« "ward all perfons, and zeal agamft all fins; And as yewould not lofe your ground, be pofitivc againft finthe firfi propofal and motion thereof; ye will not getit fhifted by, and your felves kept free from it, by htd-inz your ielvcs, and not appearing freely again.! it,though there may be an unwtllingnefs unto it: I con-ccive°Aaron had no will to make the Golden Calf, and£ thought to have gotten it put out of the I ft a el, lesminds, by bidding them break off their golden Enr-ZZ ant/bring them unto him ; but this fimple fh.fcwould not do it ; The faint of God is pitifully infnai-ed • and if he was fimple, in oppofing that abominati¬on he got as filly an excufe for himfelf. it would nothave beL thought that a child would have fud, there1:3 Comm'your^"caufe unto the Lord for judgmentand righteoulnefs ftiall yet meet together again uponT H. h incereiT.il in hi, work »ndfore he can neither forget it nor forfake it And luchas wait for him fhall never be put to ihame. B it,O long and erv for his appearance, that he mayright wrongs, and rule for himfelf, and claim his ownright of pofTeflion; that the prormled day may come,that this fhall be voiced alongft the heavens, the king¬dom* of the earth are become the kingdoms of ourLord, and of his Chrift: He is bufy m order to this,br is carrying on a difeoverv of all f®rts °' ^miesand othL .* I thought'that his difeovery had beennear through Scotland before this i but he lets me foemTfelfafUforfo judging; ^ fees manythmgto be difeovered that man fees not. , ‘ ‘ rkey who ... 11"“" “J in,ir' th'y "''d.not f:.for whin they arcrW Aej ftall"®' »! '?0d;Now a$ our prcfcnt cafe, I wot not well what tofay to you anent it, there are fo many mercies andjudgments in it to be fpoken of. God hath taken thislaft year many from us, by banifhmcnc and by death,onicaffolds, efpecially on the fields, where none (for themod part) were to fee them die, but the executioners •and yet God fills up their rooms again ; neither arethefe things permitted to damp fuchas are left.- Somehave (which is more fad) fallen off from us ; and yetGod is filling up their places alfo, and making othersmore fledfafi, and notwithftanding both of perfecutionsand reproaches, the Lord hath opened doors for mean fevera! places in Scotland, where there ufed to be noluch accefs before, and hath multiplied my work fb u-pon my hands (I fpeak it to his piaife) that I have ob-fetved my work (1 fay) to be now in feme fhiresthreefold, and in fome four fold more than it vvas. Othat God would fend forth more labourers/ there teemsto be much ado in Scotland with them. Alfo it is al-moft incredible to tell what zeal, what tendernefswhat pa in ful nc fs in duty, what circumfpedlnefs of walkin many young ones of ten, eleven twelve and four¬teen years of age, in many places of Scotland', which Ilook upon as one of the vifiblcft and greateft tokens forgood that we have. But,Right honourable and dearly beloved, not to detainyou further ; I acknowlcge my felf your debtor whileI live, for your many prayers put up for this poor di-ilreffed church, whereof, J know, I have had a fharefor your lympathy and kindnefs otherways mamfeftedto us: For your care of that family with you, where¬in we are all concerned; and particularly, for yourencouraging, flrengthning of, and kindnefs to mydear and worthy friend, our eight honourable Delc-Ptc; . * kiefs the Lord who hath given you zeal forlomielf and hath helped you to Hard with a pooroeipiled party in many Hours for his inrereff I com¬mend you to him, that he may make his rich gracemore( I« )more and more abound in you, that he may perfeftwhat concerns you, and make you perfevcre unto theend, and himfelf be your exceeding rich reward. Ihope I need not defire you to pray for me. I am,Right hoKourable and dearly beloved,Tour obliged friend and obedientServant in the Lord,JAMES RENWICK,Mr. Ren wick's NEGATIVE DUTIES are,(I.) Te mu ft not be given to wine : Te mufl not be Lo¬vers, nor followers of jlrong drink, nor tipple away Unisin Ale-houfes. (2.) Te mu ft not be covetous, nor greedy offilthy Lucre (3) Te muft not be Joon angry,-neither uponreal, nor conceived caufe of provocation- (4) Te mu ft notbe (irikers nor brawlers, nor given to quarreling and con¬tentions. (5) Ton muft not be Jelf-willed, adhering perti-nacioujly, and without reafon, to your own judgments,and refuftng to hearken to the judgment of your brethren,tho' found and wholefome. (6) Te muft not he novices,or fuch as are newly come to the faith, left ye be puffed upwith pride,and faU into the condemnation of the devil: Thefpirits of novices are not yet well ballafted, nor broughtlow by frequent exercifes of the Crofs ; and fo come to bemore eaftly puffed up : Therefore there is need that ye beexcercifed foldiers of Jefus Chrifl, and who by experienceare taught to know the wiles of the devil, and are able toendure hardnefs.r Renwick was born in Glencairn, in Nithfdah, onFebruary 15th, 1662: And was executed intheGr^-mercat of Edinburgh, a renowned Martyr of Chaff,on the iSth of February 1688, being 5 Days over the26th Year of his Age./ F fv-N I *•