PLEASANT HISTORYEP0OR ROBIN,THBMERRY SADLER OF WALDEN.SHEWINGi hhe Merry Pranks be played during his| Apprenticeship, and howhe Trickeda Rich Miser, &c. &e,Very diverting for a Winter-EveningFire'side.pi! S1JJ 3tT v.-i • Off ; iEDINBURGH:Printed for the Booksellers,No'"xvrTUB BtEASAJTTHISTORYOFPOOR ROBUS.CHAP. I.The. Birth of Poor Robin, how he wasbound Apprentice to a Saddler, and whata trick he served hie Master.POOR Robin was born in Sadiron-Wal¬den, in the County of Essex, of ho-ne,st plain parents, -who brought him upnot as our nice dames do now-a-days, bydirecting him how much he should eat,but as the fashion was then, full fed withgross meats; so that in a few years hegrew a sturdy lad ; and, considering hisgrowth and maimers, a man might wellsay better fed than taught. His fatherbeing willing he should be able to Jive insi he world another day, bound him an ap¬prentice to a sadler, one who fitted Pool*ntbbin’s humour to a hair ; for the masterbving drink, he thought it should go hard; f the man likewise did not also wet his! tp8 with it. It fortun'd one time his mas-■ er had brewed a barrel of beer stronger! ban ordinary, to the drinking of which,ifoor Robin one night invites five or sixf his comrades, who, before the‘nextnorning, drank it all up. Poor Robin toexcuse himself, draws the spiggot out,ijnd throws a pail full of small beer andwo or three pales full of water under theTap, and by a wile gets a great sow into. the cellar : so the next morning when hismaster arose all was quiet, and the sowJvas blamed for what the boar pig hadlone.CHAP. II.\Tlorv Poor Robin served his Master for siUing up late at night.Poor Robin’s master had gotten a customthat the man did not at all like, whichwas, that after he had tippled all day some,,tithes till ten or eleven o’clock at night,jhe would then come home and fall asleep*, in a chair ; during which time his maa■ MHH4must not go to bed, but wait until his mas*ter,awakened. Poor Robin to break himof this evil custom, one night when hismaster came home soundly fuddled, andfalling asleep in his chair as usual; so hajmade a great lire, and then drew his mas-jtops, legs so near thereto, that his toeSjtouched some of the coals; which beingdone, be sits him down in the other cor-iuer, to,observe the sequel Pie had not,sat long, till his master’s shoes began to,1fry ; whereupon he suddenly awakes, ancbijumps .about, as if he had been mad ! thejWan all the while counterfeits himself as-'Jeep, and seem’d not to awake for a goedfspace. At last, ,deeming much to pitj hismaster’s misfortune, they went to bed.—But never after that, would his master situp to sleep in his chair.CHAP. III.Jiow Poor Robin served a rich Miser. |In the same town lived a rich Miser, whohad wealth enough to have been treasurer jof the town, and wisdom answerable to abeadle of a parish: This man, fuller offaith than good works, would neither feastthe poor nor relieve their wants,- nor hold /brotherly unity with any. Poor Robin ,i£mg resolved to put a trick upoo him, iteing then Christmas, made it Fit for histiirpose ;: an'd so 'counterfeiting- himself toe the gentlemap/s man, about ten ordeven o’clock at night, just when peopleFere in bed, he calls at sundry men’s doors,Inviting them the next day to his master’s'naming the gentlemaii’s name) to dinner,thereupon the next day appeared the.iumber'of two and twenty m tbeir roa^t-neat apparel; buf, contrary to their ex¬pectations, finding small preparations to¬wards a dinner, they began to wonderWherefore1 he, bad invited them ; the gen-Meman as much wbndered wherefore they:ame. At last the truth was cleared onDoth sides, some taught* and some frown¬ed ; and so they all departed home.CHAP. IV.How Robin Married and set up for himself.Poor Robin having served out his appren¬ticeship, would needs set up for himself,and thereupon hires a house ahd shop:Yet* thinking it inconvenient for him tolive alone, and that two heads was betterthan one, he resolved to do as many othersdid, marry in haste, though he should.re¬pent at leasure. But his fortune was bet-6ter than his deserts ; for tho* she was bua homely woman with whom he joined Hmatrimony, yet she was provident to liviin the world, and for his own part he stoo<!not much on beauty, but had rather havea fat puns than a fair wife, seeing ther<was great profit in the'one, and less dangeiof being made a cuckold by the othernever did a couple more lovingly agree to-get her, than did this pair at first; insomuchthat duck and. lamb were the ordinaryterms he bestowed upon her ; whereupona wit of the: town hearing this loving lan¬guage bet wixt them, made this epigram tobe read by any that can understand it.roof' Robin thinks his wife cxreHs most-dames,And (.'alls her duck,# lamb, with such kind names,A duck’s n-6ird, a lamb's a beast-we -now,'Poor Robin's wile's a foul beast then I trow*CHAP, V,How Poor Robin served one of his Com¬panions a siovenous Trick.Poor Robin having set up for himself (as:you have heard) he would oftentimes traJvel abroad in the country to get acquaintlance amongst the gentry ; It happenedone time being belated homeward, andhis brain intoxicated with'the juice of II|acchugt {l\U. llQ took up his quarters in7a country ale-house ; where notwithstand¬ing he had gotten a lusty jug before, yeti‘! fell he to drinking of beer and cyder, as|l if his belly was bottomless. At last, grow-f ing sleepy, he went to bed, where it wasit his chance to be lodged in the same cham-fe1 her where one of his acquaintances wasI already in bed : Who as he lay downsooner than Poor Robin, so the next|morning was he no sooner got up provid-l ing a pot and toast ready against Poor|Robin arose, but a foul mischance befel] j Poor Robin in the meantime, for the wine,ibeer, and cyder not agreeing in his belly,ihe very mannerly, sir-reverence beshillithe bed: Whereupon not knowing whatjto do, and being loth to be discredited,la crotchet came into his crown, which lie[presently put in execution : Pie takeslithe stinking sheets from off his own bpdland lays them on his friend’s, and then'takes his and lays them on his own bed. so,spreading the corerlet as if nothing wasamiss, he makes himself ready, and downstairs he goes. No sooner was lie belowbut his friend arrest hirS at Mr Fox’s suit,and by all means would make him parbis groat for being drunk. Poor Robin ex¬cused himself as well as he cbuld, andirould be judged by the landlord whetherlie was fuddled or no; Whilst they were;wrangling* about paying the groat, the:maid went up into the chamber to makethe beds ; but finding one of them in a pi¬tiful pickle, she came chasing down, caU|ling the. man beastly fellow and nasty*knave, with other Billingsgate language,such as Game first to her tongue’s end.!The man thought:her mad, thus to scold-for nothing,' till at last she told him plain¬ly he had beshit the bed. “ Nay,” quoth-Poor Robin, “ I will be judged by my lan¬iard,' which of us was most fuddled lastnight.” “ Truly,” saidthehostf* I can judge-no otherwise but that he was, or he would-nothaveplayedsuchanastytrick.” Where-'!upon it was judged by all the companythat the man should pay his groat., andPoor Robin got free.CHAP. VI.Of a sad Disaster that befel Poor Robin. ;It happened on a time, during the . late-;unhappy wars, that all the Essex Train-!bands were assembled at Walden, to re-1sist the King’s Forces, who, in a bravado, jhad made their excursions as far as Hunt-1inigtoijL. Amongst other military weapons Iof destruction, they brought a Drake,|— —0iwhicli they planted under poor Robin’sichamber-window, to be shot off at ninelo’Clock at night, for a warning for all peo-ijple to repair home. Poor Robin and hisi wife were at that time newly gone to bed;hi now it is to be understood, the chamberwhere they lay, Went out half over the: i room below, a rail of about four feet high,k being set up the side, to keep them fromIt] falling, close by the rail was Poor Robin’s| bed: The season then being very warfci,land Poor Robin apt for venerial exercises,|-he would needs have a touch upon crocketI with his wifebut whilst they were busy!at their spOrt, the Drake was shot off,which poor Sarah, his wife, hearing,--withthe fright gave a sudden start! ancf threwPoor Robin quite'over the rail, into theroom1 below, and very foully bewrayed thebed. Poor Robin was much bruised inI-body, and half dead. At length he gotup, but his courage was so cool’d with thegreatness of the fall, that he had moreneed of a Doctor than A woman.CHAP. VII.Hotv Poor $g,rali-mas cheated Ajs*ton^pye, , . .Poor Sarah on a time made a very great110pye, into which she hml put a whole loyrof mutton, besides other things, so tha;it was valued worth five or six shillings a;least: This pye she sent to the commoloven to bak ■; which being perceived bjthree or four merry blades, they resolvecif they could possibly to cheat her of thepye, wliich at last they brought to pass1on this manner; tit such time as the hrker used to draw, two of them went anflheld poor Sarah in a tale, whilst the otheisent one of her neighbour’s, boys to thebaker’s with a pail, a napkin and monejyto pay for the baking. The bakertrusting no knavery, delivered the boy thepye, which was presently carried to th|next alehcuie, whether, inviting sornijmore of their companions unto them, wifclmuch mirth and laughter .• and becausethe jest should be publickly known thejyset the cryer to work, who published thesame in every corner of the town.CHAP. VIII.Jiorv Poor Robin kissed his wife's Back*side instead of her mouth.Poor Robin having been out very late oticnight his understanding being eclipsed, liemistook himself, and went in at the bedfi■11I foot instead of the head of it; wherc- rd*ij mem boring how by hij ill husbandry heli bad offended his wife, to appease her an-•| ger he falls to kissing her posteriors im-d agining it had been her mouth, but floddSing the pdatform bigger than his face, ask¬ed her the question if her cheeks weres well'd ? She for answer returns him a foist,f which makes him to ask her again if herd breath did stink, whereupon she burst in-to a very great laughter, let such a crackthat the grains flew about his face ; jrhere-i upon in a great rage turning him on thei other side, “you beastly quean, (quoth he)i must you spit in my face, the devil hkn-i self shall kiss you e'er I’ll kiss you again.”CHAP. IX.JIIoiv Pool' Robin cat Dog-siones insteadof IjQmb-stones.As Poor Robin was move addicted to fleshthan fish, so of all sorts of flesh he loveda dish of Iamb-stones best; a merry dis¬posed companion knowing Ids appetite,resolved to put a trick upon him ; a gemtleman of the town who kept a pack ofhounds, having gelt his dogs, he gets thestones and with a few -sweet-breads pre-sepfsi them to Poor Ilpbin, as $ dainty12dish. Poor' Robin) very thankful for sogreat kindness, would riot stay, but pre¬sently had them drest; making all thehaste he could, for fear any should come 1in, to be partakers with him in his dinner:Rut having eaten them,' and understood'the truth, he fell a-speuitig, as if his gallwould come up with it. Poor Sarah, inlike manner, disgorged her stomach, sothat who would have seen them, would >have concluded them drunk with eating.CHAP. X. 'A nitty Jest that Poor Rohin gave aSerjeant.The Blue Regiment of Train-Soldiersbeing on a time at Walden, one of the iSerjeants, to shew his bravery, had got-1ten a great blue scarf about his middlejbeing as much, or more, than the Ensignlhad in his colours. Poor Robin thinking|him to be to fine to fight, would venture ito put a jeer upon him, and calling him, 3asked if he wanted any work? “ Why,” said 'the Serjeant, “ what makes you ask ?” Pray Jvour pardon, quoth Poor Robin, “I wasjilstsken in you ; I took you for a shoe- jmaker, because you had gotten your blue 1apron before you.”13l ■ : ■ vi ■i CHAP, XLi Horo Poor Robin ?von Rive Shillings by| kissing his Hostess*> Poor Robin, with some other of his ijiates,i being drilling in an ale-house where wasIan exceeding tall hostess, one of them di¬ffered to lay five shillings, (because Poori;Robin was low) that he should not kiss:!jher as he stood on the ground.—Poor Ro^ibin accepted the challenge, and covered'the money. Rut when he went to kiss| her, his mouth would not reach higherfthan her apron string. Whereupon offer¬ing as though he would, put his hand un-jder her coals, he made her stoop to put itpy; than he clasped his arms round her5meek, gave her a kiss, and so wpn thebwager.CHAP. XII.Poor Robin's. Sayings 'of ambitious Men.I Poor Robin being in company with somegentleman wlio were talking of the ambi¬tion of some men nowadays, that wouldventure the loss of their souls for the sake ofa kingdom; yea, (quoth Poor Robin) butthe success of many of them, is far diner-r .14ent from king Sauls ; for he seeking assesfound a kingdom, and they seeking akingdom find themselves to be asses,CHAP. XIII,Poor Robin'!) Journeij to London.Poor .Robin having never been at Lc ndonin his life, and being very desirous to seethe city, whose fame rang so loud ii-every man’s mouth, he resolved to makea journey thither, and spend some time inviewing the rareties of the same; but be¬cause he was unaf'uainted with, the citycustoms, he got a companion of his to gcalong with him : No sooner were theypast Aldgate, but Poor Robin seeing sucha number of signs, he whispered with hiffriend, * Certainly, (quoth he) they mustneeds he all drunkards that live in thisplace. I never raw so inany-alehouses to¬gether in my life.” And thereupon bee*jeoning to his companion, enters one olthe shops and calls for a jug of beer ; hutthey making him acc<juaii:ted with hieerror, how they sold no drink, but if hewanted any thing else they crvld furnishhim with it ; he presently without anystudying asks them to shew him a pair o!hedging gloves,, whereupon changing thenI15jjopinicn instead of a fool they tcok him:! for a jeering companion : And to lit him::fer his gloves, had him to the pump and| soundly bedrenpht him from head to foot;I having occasion to go through BirchingirLane, and being ask’d by the salesmen,Country-men, what lacky' ®?” “Marry,1’; quoth he, ‘‘that which 1 tear you can-f not furnish me withal,” and being impor-ntuned of them to know what it was::j “why,” quoth he, “thatvrldehyou havenone:i| of: I want honesty.” Might approaching,| Poor Rofc'n and his walking mate repaired1 to their Inn, where, after they had su|)t, and.1 drunk five or six jugs of beer with the hostI of the house, and some of his men, (for| iim-keeper s servants drink most of their! beer at other men’s cost), his friend lov-i ing no tobacco, and Poor,Robin desiring!ij the heathenish weed,.to pass away tire time,j they agreed among themselves that every! cne of the company should either tell a taloor sing a song. Poor Robin who first men¬tioned the same, beginning in this manner.CHAP. XIV.Iyl Tale of a Pah’ of Card*.Not many ages since, a parson of a coun¬try village was accused to a committee,■16that h' was a great gamester at cards,,being addicted thereunto, that he wouldoft-times play on Sunday©: The com¬mittee thus informed, sent for the parson'to answer this accusation ; who receiving!the warrant, made no excuse nor delaysbut with- al! haste made his appearancebefore them; with him,also came the in--former, to justify his accusation. Beingthi's met together, the commmittee be¬gan to reprove the parson for being ad-jdieted to such a vice, as to he noted fora common player at cards, “ Indeed,” saidthe parson, “ I am so far from it, that -Iknow not what a pair of cards meaneth.”“ Sir,” quoth the informer, if you please tosearch his pockets, 1 believe you will find,a pair'there at present, for he seldom goeth.without such tackling. Whereupon thecommittee commanding his pockets to besearched, they found a pair of cards therejindeed ; but the parson denied them to becardsj saying, “ They may be cards to youbut to me they are an Almanack,” Aridand being demanded how he could make-it appear he answered thus: “ First,” quothlie., “ here is as -many suits of cards as there^be quarters in a year ; and as many Court-.cards as there be months in a year; and.as many card s as there be weeks in a year %17Imd as many spots as there be days in apear : Then, when I look upon the King,t puts me in mind of the allegiance that[ owe to my sovereign Lord the King :Looking upon the Queen, puts me innind of the allegiance that I owe to the^ueen : The Ten puts me in mind of thefen Commandments; The Nine, of theSTine muses : The Eight, of the EightAltitudes : The Seven, of the Seven Li-)eral Sciences : The Six, of the Six daysjve ought to labour in : The Five of therive senses: The Four, pf the Fourfivangelists : The Three of the Trinity :The Two, of the Two Sacraments : And■he Ace, that we ought to worship hut one3-od.” Quoth the committee, “ If this beill the use you make of them, we cen findid fault with you. But, Mr Parson, of all:he Cards that you Lave nominated, youlave forgot the Knave; jpray, what usenake you of him?” “ O Sir, said he, (point-.ng to his accuser) that is your Worship'snformer.”Poor Robin having ended his tale, saysds friend, I suppose that was the sameParson that used to read his Littany everyday of the week excepting Sundays ; andI being a constant hearer of him, learntit as perfectly as my Pater-Noster.18CHAP. XV.Poor Robin's Liitarty.From being turned out of doors,From town-rats, and ale-house scores,From lowsie queans and pocky whores, ILibera nos.From taylor’s bills and draper's books,From sluttish maids and nasty cooks,From froward wires and crabbed looks,Libera nos.From breaking pipes, and broken glasses,From drinking'healths and drunken asses,From lying lubbers and lisping lasses,Libera nos.From paying of lawyer's fees,From mouldy bread and musty cheese, 1From trotting jades and scorning shea, jLibera nos, , $From fetter®, chains, bolts and gyves,From pointless needles and broken knivesJFrom thievish servants and drunken wives, ■• Libera nos.From taylors bodkins and butchers pricks,From tenpenny nails and headless spike's,And fioni attornies’ knavish trickyLibera nos.I ron lying taken m disguise,From believing of a poet's lyes*39l And from the devil and the excise,Libera nos,J; From brown bread and small beer,From being taken stealing deer,| From all that hath been named here.Quesemus te.The littany being ended, the tapster) comes for his reckoning ; but Poor Ilo-i bin made answer that he should do as the|rest had done, either tell a tale or sing ab song. Says he, “ Sing I cannot, but Lav ill|tell you how they marry in Scotland, aslj| a Scotch priest told me that lay here, and1 got me to engage for him to my master fortwenty shillings ; and he running away,I was forced to pay his score for him ”CHAP. XVI.-4 Scotch Marriage^We don’t use to wad in Scotland as youvrdd in England Jockey comes to thekirk and takes sir Donkyn by the rocket*andsays," Good morn, sir Donkyn,” “ what's,the matter Jockey, what’s the matter?’t: A wadding, a waddingy’ says he,<4don‘t yousee the hoppers and the skippers, and a1!the l&ds ef the gang ? Pse don't* I\se20gangs-to the kirk I spee and I gpee. Whaa deel do you spe$. “Jockey of the highlane, arid Jenny of the' !6hg cliff; if anyknow why these tw'a mdy not be waddedtogether, let them now speak er hold theirtongue in the decks name. Jockey Wiltthou hae Jenny to thy wadded wife ? Isay Jockey say after me, Jockey wilt thouhae Jenny td thy wadded wife ? forsaking;all joens*' luberlboiis;: swing-bdliied calved,)black lips/and blue hpSes ? ; Ay forsooth.If these twa be not Vreli wadded as e’er Iwadded twa these! seven years, the deel*and St. Andrew part them.”The wedding being ended,1 all the com¬pany went to bed, where we will leavethem till the next morning, to relatePoor Robin’s perambulation about the city?CHAP. XVII.Poor Pobin s Perambulation about the citif:No sooner did Apollo begin to appear inthe Eastern Horizon, but Poor Robin,shaking off m'elanchoily sleep, his com-Jpanion to prepare himself for their intend--ed perambulation, and having armed;themselves with a pot of nappy ale, theytook their first walk t'6 see. the Royal Ex¬change, a most magnificent structure^31'uilt by Sir Thom os Gresham. Fromhenoe they went to take a view of Lead--hall; but the exceeding bfavery of thexcliange hr.d so dimmed the beauty ofdie place, that it was nothing pleasing tojjroor Robin’s eye, he made no tarryingdh^re,' but went presently down to therower, where having seen the Lions, andttrom the Wharf taken a superficial viewIlf the bridge, as also the ships upon thedyer Thamesv he became weary of be-j:oldinig so many surprising objects { head however, far more content in seejnghe ships, so admirably pleasing to his.ncy, it was to see how the.se little prettyihings hopt about. Rut lest he should1 ike a surfeit with such ravishing delights,jis friend persuaded him to go to see thencient Cathedral of St. Paul’s, being at|r«sent made a horse-guard by the sol-‘ers; which Poor Robin beholdingWhat a blessed reformation,” quoth he,have we here ! for in our country, we canftrce persuade men to go to church, butre come men and horses too.” Having.tisfied himself with the sght of St.auFs, they would in the next place, go> visit Westminster, the rather becausewas at term-time ; where beholding soireat a number of Lawyers in their gowns,i.22he cried out, “O let us be gone from thisplace ! for if two or three make such aquarrel in our town, certainly there is noabiding here for men in their wit.’* Acountry gentleman over-hearing him, 441remember,” quoth he, “ once I heard a storyof a man that went down to hell, where*in he beheld men of all professions, agesand conditions, saving only lawyers, whichmade him the more to wonder, becauaehe imagined them all there, and askingthe devil the reason, he made this reply,4 We have them here, tho’ you see thermnot, hut we are forc’d to keep them in aroom by themselves, lest they should setall the devils in hell at variance.’ ” PoorR'obin laughed very heartily at this taleand having now satisfied his inn, andhaving discharged all reckonings his frienfand he returned home.CHAP. XVIILMany odd Whimsies and Ccmceite of Po<ARobin.Poor Robin daily frequenting the taverjand ale-house had learned of his conipanions many drunken whimsies and otheodd conceits, as the five properties ths|belong to any host,—that he must haf]nelly of a hog, skip up and dovn like atog, and fawn like a dog. As also thebur ingredients whereof a woman’s tongueI made, viz. The sound of a graat bell,|he wagging of a dog’s tail, the shakingf an aspen leaf tempered with running*.rateixWhen Poor Robin had gotten a cup iniis crown, as it oftentimes happen’d, heould be then playing the poet, and no-, rung but rhymes could then come outI f his mouth ; for as one writes,l! Poet and pot doth differ but one letter,-k; And that makes poets love the pot theI- better.J Amongst other of his conceits, this fol-.jlwing comparison was much used by him.ilike a purse that hath no chink in’t;>r a cellar and no drink in’t,lake a jewel never worn,^>r a child untimely born,. like a song without a foot,•)r a bond and no hand to’t,iluch doth she seem unto mine eye«,fhat lives a virgin till she dies.ji'he money doth entice the purse,The chink in the cellar quencheth thirst'»24The jewel decks if worn it is; jTho child soon dies, abortive is ;The end o’ the song,doth sweetest sound jThe hand doth make the party bound, |So she that marries e’er death takes her,Answers that for which Nature makes her|K Women,” said he, “ are all extremeseither two willing, or too wilful; two for¬ward, or too froward ; too corteous, or too*coy; toofr endiy, or too fiendlji This madeArminius, a ruler in Carthage, refuse tdlmary ; saying, ‘ If I marry a wise wife, sh(|will be wilful; if wealthy, then wantonsif poor, then peevish; if beautiful, thenproud ; if deformed, then loathsome ; and,the least of these is able to kill a thousandmen.’ ”FINIS,