THECOMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHNAND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES,WHICH HAPPENED ALL IN TWELVE DAYS AFTER THFUNHAPPY DAY OF HIS MARRIAGE.GLASGOWPRINTED FOR TJHE BOOKSELLERS.COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHN,And liis Twelve Misfortunes.Simple John was a widow’s son, andi coarse country weaver to his trade,He made nothing but such as can¬vas for caff-beds, corn and coal sacks,drugget and barn was the finest webshe could lay bis fingers to; he was agreat lump of a lang, lean lad, aboonsax feet afore he was aughteen yearsauld; and, as he said himsel, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry to behigh, that he did not stay to bring a’his judgment with him, but, yet hehoped it would follow him, andhe would meet wi t as mony a anedoes after they’re married. He hadbut ane sister, and she was marriedon Sleeky Willie, the wylie weaver;his mither was a rattling rattle-scul’dwife, and they lived a’ in ae house,and everbody held them as a familyof fools. When John came to man’s3i5estate, to the age of twenty-one years,he told his mither he would hae a wifeo’ some sort, either young or auld,widow or lass, if they had but headsand lips, tongue and tail, he shouldtak them, and weel I wat, mk ier,quoth he,they’ll get a lumpingp o iny-worth o’ me, get me wha willHos mither tells him o’ the olackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedouchters, and every ane o’ them hadsomething. There was Kate, Ann,and Girzy, had a hundred merks thepiece. Kate and Ann had baith bas¬tards.. Girzy the eldest had a humpback, a high breast, baker legged, ashort wry neck, thrawn mouth, anhgoggle-ey’d ; a perfect JEsop of thefemale kind, with as many crookedconditions within as without, a verylump of loun-like ill-nature, row’d a’together, as if she had been ninemonths in a haggis—a second editionof crook backed Richard, an old Eng¬lish King, that was born with teethto bite a’ round about him ; and yetthe wight gaed mad to be married.4John’s mither told him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sunday’scoat on, and a’ his braws, and a pairof new pillonian breeks o’ his mither’smaking. In he comes and tells hiserrand before he would sit down,—says good day to you, goodman, whatare you a’ doing here ? I am wantinga wife, an’ ye’re a flesher, and has agude sorting aside you ; my mithersays ye can sair me or ony body likeme, what say ye till’t,goodman ? Howmony dochters hae ye ? Are they a’married yet ? I would fain tak a looko’ some o* them gin ye like.A wow, said the goodwife, come inby, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer sit down and gie’s a snuff—A deed, goodwife, I hae nae mills butmy mither’s, and it’s at hame.—Whare win ye, I’se no ken ye ? I wat,quoth he, my name’s Jock Sandyman,and they ca’ me Simple John the sackweaver. I hae nae tocher but myloom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle, pat, abrass pan, twa pigs, four cogs, and aIcandlestick, a good cock, cat, twaerrocks new begun to lay amy sisterSara is married on Sleeky Willie thewylie weaver, and I maun hae a hagswife or my mither die, for truly she’svery frail, and ony harl o’ health shehas is about dinner-time ; what sayye till’t, goodman ? can ye buckleme or not ?Goodman. A dear John, ye’re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi’ ye ? they’re a’ there beforeya, which o’ them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o’ themwill sair me, but my mither says thereis twa o’ them has fauts. And whatis their faults says the goodwife.Hout, said John, it’s no meikle, butI dinna like they got men or theywere married. And what shall I dowi’ them ? said the goodman.John, deed, goodman, as ye’reay dealin among dead beasts andliving beasts, I wad put them awaamong ither beasts, or gin ye be armony penny, let somebody tak them upo’ desperate debt, I sud Hie the fykes6Vac them, they anger’d you and;ham’d you baith with their bastards,i wheen daft jades it gets men or:hey be married, and bairns or they^et bridals.Goodwife. A wat that’s true, lad.Girzy. A weel, cohn, then, will yeak me ; I hae nae bastards ; howvill you and I do ?John. I wat na gin ye be able to get’j bastard, yet ye may hae some wauraut; but ye maun be my penny¬worth, for ye’re unco little, and I’mfer muckle, and ain ve an I war ancewarded through ither, we may get)onny weans o’ a middlen mak. Ilae nae fauts to ye, but ye hae a high>reast, a humph back, a short neck,nd high shouthers, the hands &legsaay do, tho’ your mouth be a wee tolie tae side it will lie weel to theock, and I hae a hand6 o’ tow topin, will be baith sarks and sacks tillis, ye’ll be my soncy dauty, up and[own ; a perfect beauty, wi’ catsellow een, black brous, and red lips,aid your very nose is a purple colour,Uiclois Cwa ivctlx anoi u.% *ye hae nae fauts at a’. Now, whenwill we be married ?Girzy. Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that jet.John. What! shouldna ye be readywhan I’m ready ; everybody says thewomen’s aye ready.Goodman. Ye’ll hae to come backand bring somebody wi’ you, andwe’ll gree about it, and set the daywhan ye’ll be married.John. A weel, goodman, I’ll tellmy mither o’t, and come back onMonday, and we’ll ha’e a chappino’ ale, and roasted cheese on thechance o’t, but I maun hae a word o’the bride out by, to convoy me, anda quiet speak to hersel about it.Goodwife. A wow na, John, thedaft loons will laugh at you,and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John and the bride, andher twa sisters goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and whathe would say. Now says John,Girzy my dear, my braw prettywoman, an ye be in earnest, tell me,for by my suth I’m no scorning.Gi"sy. Indeed, John, I’m verywilling to tak ye, but ye needna telleverybody aboot it.John. ! hen gie me a kiss on that,He shoves his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win doon toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. 0, cries he, an yewere good flesh I could eat you a’, 1like you sae weel; it’s a pity there issic a hard wa’ between us, I’se tellmy mither sae bonny as ye are. 0,gie me anither kiss yet, and then I’llgo. One of her sisters standing byin a dark corner, gets baud o’ a cow’shead, which wanted a’ the skin butabout the mouth, and shoves ittowards his mouth, which he kissedin the dark. O, cries he, your mouthbe cauld since 1 kissed ye last, and Ithink ye hae a beard, I saw nae thatbefote, or is’t wi’ spinning tow thatmaks your mouth sae rough at ee’n.Hame he comes, and tells his9mither the speed and properties ofthe marriage. All things was gotready, and next week, Sleeky Williethe weaver and him came to gree themarriage, and stay all night with thebride,and teach John good manners,for when Johnwas hungry,he mindedhis meat mair than his good behavi¬our, and he never was fu’ till thedish was tume. Willie the weaverwas to tramp on his fit when hethought he had suppet enough; so allthings beink agreed, upon short andeasy etrm, and the wedding day set,they were to be three times cried onSunday, and quietly married onMonday, neither piper nor fiddler tobe employ’d, but sweith awa hamefrae the Minister, and ipto the bedamang the blankets ; ha, ha, criedJohn, that’s the best o’t a’.Now every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper wasbrought, a large fat haggis, the verysmell wad a done a hungry bodygude, but John had only got twa orthree soups, until one of the butcher’s10meikle dogs tran.^ed on John’s fit,which he took to be the weaver, andthen he would eat nae mair. Aftersupuer they went to bed, John andthe weaver lay together, and then heabused toe weaver for tramping saesoon, which he denied; but O, saidJohn, there’s a hantle o’t left, and Isaw whare it was set; they are a*sleeping, I’ll go rise and tak a soupo’t yet. Aye, een do sae, said sleekyWillie, and bring a soup to me too.Away then John goes to the amry,and lays to the haggis, till his anehaggis could hand nae mair; thenbrought some to Sleeky Willie; but,instead of coing to the bed where hewas, goes to the bed where the brideand the twa sisters lay, they beingfast asleep, speaks slowly,—will youtak it? will you tak it? but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Wiliie’smouth, but instead of doing so, heputs a great spoonful close into oneof their backsides. Sleeky IFilliehears a’ that past, comes out the bed,11and sups out the remainder., and setsup the dish where it was, leaves theamry door open to let the cats getthe blame of supping the haggis, andI away they go to bed; but poor Johncould get nae sleep for drouth; uphe gets in search of the water-can.and finding an empty pitcher, putsin his hand to find if there was amwater in it,but finding nane he closecihis hand when it was within the pit¬cher, and then could not get it outgoes to the bed and tells Sleekic5 jMillie what had hrppened him, wh(advised him to open the door amgo out to a knocking-stane that stoodbefore the door, and break it there,to get out his hand, and not makea noise in the house. So out he goesand the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggis laidto her backside, was out before himrubbing the nastiness (as she took ito be) off the tail of her sark, amshe being in a louting posture, h(took her for the knocking-stane, amcomes ower her hurdies with tin12pitcher, till it flew in pieces aboutler, then off she runs with the frightround a turf-sack, and into the houseoefore him. John came in tremblingo the bed again, wi’the fright, pray¬ing to preserve him, lor sic a knock-ing-stane he never yet saw, for it ranclean awa when he broke the pigpuon it.JN ow John was furnished in a housewith his father-in-law; the bed, theloom, riddles, treadles, thrumbs, reedpurn-wheel, was a’ brought and setip before the marriage, which waskept a profonnd secret; so that Johnyet his first night of his ain wife, andhis ain house at ae time. So on thenext morning after the marriage,John and his wife made up somearticles, how they were to work, andkeep house; John was to keep Jhehouse in meat, meal, fire, and water;Girzy was to mak the meat, and keepthe house in clothes; the father-in-law to pay the rent for three years ;they were to hae nae servants, untilJiey had children.'13MISFORTUNE I.Then she ordered John to rise andbegin his wark, by potting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in acrowd to see him, gave a loud huzza :and clapping their hands at him, poorJohn, not knowing what it meant,thought it was fine sport, began toclap his hands too, and not mindingthe twa pigs, clashes the tane againstthe tither, till baith went to pieces,and that was a cheerful huzza to baithyoung and auld that was looking athim ; Girzy, the wife, draws him intothe house, and to him she flies withthe wicked wife’s weapon, her Tongueand Tangs, and made his ribs to crack,saying, ‘£ They told me ye war daft,but I’ll ding the daffing out o’ ye, I’llbegin wi’ you as I’ve a mind to endwi’ you. Poor John sat crying andclawing his head, “ Ha, ha,” said he,its nae bairn’s play to be married, I14find that already. His mother-in-law came in and made np peace, wentto a cooper, and got tnem a big wood¬en stoop to carry in their water.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was sent tothe flesh-market an errand to hisFather-in law, who gave him a pieceof flesh to carry home, and as he wascoming out of the market, he saw sixor seven of the flesher dogs fall onand worry at a poor country colliedog; “ye’re but a wheen nnmannerlyrascals, that fa’s a’ on ae poor beast,heth he should a be put in the tou-buoth, and ta’en to the bailies, andhanged for the like o’that, its perfectmurder; and ih he runs amongst thedogs, “ And be hanged to you a’ the-gither, what’s the quarrel ? what’s thequarrel?” John flings down the fleshhe had carrying, and grips the colly,who took John for an enemy too, andbites his hands till the blood followedthe whole of the tykes comes a’ onpoor John, till down he goes in15the dirt amongst their feet; andone of the dogs runs off with theflesh ; so John went hame baith dirtyand bloody, without his flesh, toldGirzy how it happened, who appliedher old plaister, her Tangs & Tongue,made John to curse the very ministerthat married them, and wished hemight ne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent tothe well with the great stoup to bringin water for breakfast; and as he waspulling the stoup out of the well, inhe tumbles head down, the well beingnarrow, he conldna win out. Somepeople passing by chance heard theslunge, cried, and ran to his relief,hauled him out half dead, helped himinto the house; and after getting a drysark, he was comforted with the oldplaister, her Tongue & hard Tongs.MISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, John, I mustgo to the market myself, for if yougo you’ll fight with the dogs, and let16them run awa wi’ ony thing you buy;see that ye put on the pat, hae’t boil¬ing agin 1 come hame. John pro¬mised weel, but performs very badly.She’s no sooner gone, than he puts onthe new pat without any water in it,and a good fire to make it boil, andaway he goes to the unhappy well,fills his stoup,and sets it down to lookat a parcel of boys playing at cat anddog, shey persuaded John to tak agame wi’ them, on he plays, till ane o’the boys cries,hey John, yonders yourGirzy coming. -Tohn runs into thehouse wi’ the water, and the pat beingred-hot on the fire, he tumes in thecan Id water into it, which made thepat flee all in pieces, just as she wasentering the door. John runs for it,and she runs after him, crying, catchthe thief, some persons stopped him;she comes up, and then she labonredhim all the way hame, and he crying,“ O Sirs, ye see what it is to be mar¬ried.’’ i he mither-in-law had to makenp peace again, and he promisedgood behaviour in time to come.<D17MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent himto the water to wash some cow’s pud¬dings and turn them on a spindle,showing him how he was to do or hewent away. John goes to the watervery willingly, and as he turned andwashed them, he laid them down be¬hind him, where one of his father-in-law’s big dogs stood, and ate them upas fast as he laid them down, till allwas gone but the very last ane, whichhe carried hame in his hand, crying-like a child, and underwent a severetost of the old plaister before anymercy was shown.MISFORTUNE Vl.His father-in-law^, next day, senthim away to bring home a fat calf hehad bought in the country, and tiedup the money in a napkin, which hecarried in his hand for fear he shouldlose it. Being very weighty, as it wasall in half-pence, and as he was goingalongst a bridge, he meets a manrunning after his horse, who cries to18John to stop the horse; John meetshim on the top of the bridge, andwhen he would not be stopped forhim, he knocks the horse on the facewith the napkin rave, and most ofthe half-pence flew over the bridgein the water, which made poor Johngo home craing very bitterly for hisloss, and dread of (he old plaister,which he got very sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind anv of it in the water, and therehe found some ducks swimming andducking down with their heads belowthe water, as he thought, gatheringup his money, he kills one of them,and rips her up, but found none ofit in her guts or gabbie; then says he,they have been but looking for it,I’ll go do as they did, strips of hisclothes and leaves them on the bridgegoes in a ducking, in which time, aragman came past, and took away allhis clothes. So he went home naked■19to get a bath of the old plaisterMISFORTUNE VIII.The next morning, she sent him toa farm-house for a pigful of butter¬milk,and as he was returning throughthe fields, the farmer’s bull and ano¬ther bull were fighting; the farmer’sbull being like to loss, John runs inbehind him, and sets his head to thebull’s tail, on purpose to help him topush against the other; but the poorbull thought e/ohn was some otherbull attacking him behind, fled aside,and the other bull came full driveupon John, pushed him down, brokethe pig, and spilt the milk. So Johnwent home to get his auld plaister,which began to be a usual diet tohim, and so he regarded it the less.MISFORTUNE X.His mother-in-law, with severalauld witty wives, held a private coun¬cil on John’s conduct, and bad luck,and concluded he was bewitched.*0John was ol’ the same opinion, andwent to the Minister, and told himhe was the cause of a’ his misfortunes,,ca'd him a warlock to his face, andsaid, he had put such a black bargaininto his hand, that he was ruined forever; insisted either to unmarrythem again, or send death and thebellman to take her awa, for she hasa lump of mischief on her back andanither on her breast, and the rest ofher body is a clean de’il. lire Min¬ister began to exhort him to peaceand patience, telling him that mar¬riages were made in heaven ; “ye’reabaist liar,’’says John,“for I was mar¬ried in your ain kitchen, and a’ theblackguards in the town were there,an it had a been a heaven they wadnawin in, yet ye tell me that matrimonywas sic a happy state, but had yegotten as mony well pay’d skins asI hae gotten, ye wad a kend what itwas , ill chance on you, sir and outhe goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking theMinister’s windows, for which he was21caught and put twa hours in thestocks, and at last his lump of corrup¬tion came and rubbed his lugs, drewhis nose, got him out, and drove himhome before her, took a resolutionnever to set him about any businessin time coming, but keep him on hisloom.MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep allthat night for scolding. John got upin the morning lang or day, and lefthis tormentor in bed, fell asleep uponhis loom wi’ the candle in his hand,and so set the web, heddles, reed, andtreadle cords in a fire. By chancehis old viper looked out of the bed,or the whole house had been gone.Up she gets, and with her criesalarmed the neighbourhood whocame to her relief; but poor Johnundorwent a dreadful swabbing forthis.MISFORTUNE XI..Jfter the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopt, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next day,having nothing to do, she sent himin search of a hen’s nest, which hadta’en some by-place to lay her eggsin; so as poor John was in an auld killsearching a’ about the walls, the kill-ribs broke, and down he goes with avengeance into the logic, cutted andbruised himself in a terrible manner,up he could not win, bnt had to creepout at the logic below, scarce able toget hame, his face and nose all run¬ning of blood. In this condition shepitied and lamented for him verymuch, tied his sores and laid him inbed; then sat down very kindly, say¬ing, “ iVJy dear, and my lamb, do youthink there is ony of your banes bro¬ken ; and what part of you is sairest?;.nd waat will I get to do good?“Oh! said he, “Girzy, I’m a’brizzledatween the feet.” ‘ ^re ye indeed?’quoth she, “ then I wish ye hadbioken your neck, that / might agotten anither, useless ae way, anduseless mne ways, upo’ my word, ye’sno be here, gang whare ye likr.”23;M/SFORTUNE XII.Now, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’hirping on a staff; one came and toldhim his mother had died last night.Oh hoch! said John,and is mjmitherclean dead ! O an she wad but lookdown through the lift, and see how/’m guided this morning, J’m sureshe wad send death for me too. /’mout o’ a mither and out o’ a wife, outo> my health and strength, and a’ myhealth and strength, and a my wark-leoms. His mether-in-law came andpleaded for him: Haud your tonguen ither, said (jirzy, if ye kent whataild h'm ye wadna speak about him,he s useless, no worth the keeping ina house, but to ca him to die like anauld beast at a dykeside. Hout tout,co the auld wife, we’ll mak o’ himand he ll mend egain. So John gotpeace made up alter a, and he waseasier mended than the bnrnt web;got all his treadles and warklooms<!24set in order, the wife’s tongue ex¬cepted? which was made of Worm¬wood, and the rest of her body ofsea water, which is always in acontinual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburghjury if it be not easier to deal wifools thae headstrong fashious fouks,owns he has but an empty skull, buthis wicked wife wants wit to pourjud gment into it, never tells him ordanger till it comes upon him, forhis mother said he was a biddablebairn, if ony body had been to learnhim wst.FINIS.t\