THELIFE and PROPHECIES-OFMr. Donald Cargill,SOMETIME MINISTER IN THE BARONY PARISHOF GLASGOW :Who suffered Martyrdom for the Lord's Cause, withfour others, at the Cross of Edinburgh the 27th.July. IfiSl, and had their heads pul upon the Ports.Beinp singular for Piety, Zeal and Faithfulness; butespecially for his foretelling lulure Event.- that wereto befal Scotland in general, and private Familiesin pirticular: Such as. The untimely and fearful Deathsof those cruel Persecutors whom he had excommuni¬cated at the Torwood. Likewise,An account of his Indictment. Trial, Sentence, andBehaviour at the place of Execu;io»: with his lastWords upon the Scaffold, before he suffered.ALSO,A particular account, of the great Scarcity and Dearthwhich took place at that time, whi n many died fromwant, and bad Provisions; and when tile Meal wasas high as Two Shillings and S'.vpence the Peck.To which is added,A Short Account of the Life and untimely Dc&t,hof Argyll who gave his Casting-Voteagainst Mr. Cargill.Also, V Copy of the 7 orwood Excommunication.By PETER WALK Eli, ^WHO WAS HIMSELF A SUFFERER IN THOSE DAYS.f a l k i rPRINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON,1823.THELife and PropheciesOFMe. DONALD CARGILL.   .MR DON \LD C ARGILL w^s the eldest son of'a singularly godly gentleman, and heritor in theparish of ilatterv. some miles from Dunkeld. After hehad passed his courses of learning ct Aberdeen, he wasestablished Minister in the Oarony parish of Glasgow,before and at the unhappy restoration of Charle/diaSecond. May 2:>. 1660; and was publicly murdered atthe Cross of E lidburgh, July 27 1681," before manyw-tnessea, in that never-to-be-forgotten, unheard-of2-' year: of reigning tyrants, and raging tyranny ofPrelaticil Protestants upon Presbyterian Protestants.It is a loss that I cannot give an account how long hewas fixed minister in I heforesaid parish; only jt is certain,it was before and at the unhappy ll'storatioo, when hell!Rome, and all their proselytes and favourites had theirinvent! *n upon the rack, in their wicked, crafty counsels,^ how4hov: to stop am] overturn our "real covenaitted workof reformation, wherein the right hand of die Lord thatdoes ever valiantly, was and is remarkable to be seenin the beginning arvd carrying on, through ail the periodsof tins Church not only from Paganism and Popery,b tt, also abjuring of Prelacy, both in the last articles ofthe National Covenant : but more expressly in the seoondarticle of the Solemn League and Covenant betwixt thethree nations; wherein aU ranks were and are solemnlyand perpetually bound, in their places and stations, toextirpate that old strumpet mother, and eldest beautifuldaughter of Antichrist, with which the blind nationshave been and ere sadly bewitched : but vile vile, loath¬some and hateful in the eyes of all the zealous, serious,godly ia Scotland, ever since the Lord made light to ariseto see her aboirnnotron*. And it hath been, is, and maybe confirming and comforting to all the Lord’s people,tit-it our reformation, in ail the steps thereof, hath beenof and for the Lord, in that he raised up and continuedsuch a succession of earnest contenders, and faithfulwitnesses through so many ages, that none have ex¬ceeded them since the apostles went off the stage.According!;’, the Popish, Preir.tica’, and malignantfaction, enemies of God and godliness, began theirundern hung work (in the year 1650) of our covenaatedreformation, that hod ficusished ia a wonderful mannerfrom 1633, eleven verms hi their public Resolutions, asthey were thru called, in getting all places of powerand trust filled with men of wicked am! corrupt princip'es.an -l practices to make way for their getting their chi« fhead, Charles If. upon tbs throne of Britain, whichproved effectual, and got their hellish designs accom¬plished; which was foreseen, foretold and contendedagainst by a handful of worthy ministers and Christians,in these days called Protest ore or Remonstrators I henCromwell "the English general was called home withhis ten thousand men, who came to Scotland in the endofjulv 1650. to arraign the Duke of Hamilton and manydebauchees with him, for inva. ing their kikgdom in theyear IfifS. (which was faithfully witnessed against),and hinder;r.c their kipg from complying, with thePar*Parliament’* demand?. la t!iat ten year* that theyinvaded our land, they defiled it with blood, tolerations,and other abominations, which were faithfully witnessedagainst by a few of this land. Next, there were so manyin State ■ id Ciiurch chosen to go to Breda, to transact,with and bring home their king, whom many ol>ail rank';were, and continue to this day, lusting after tlut unhappyrace: notwithstanding he had got a dispensation fromthe Pope to co-ne under our Covenants; and it was known,that both he and bis father had signed many articles toPopish princes, to carry on Home's interest; whicha gentleman that writes upon Court-affairs at that time,mixes abundantly plain to the world. Of the Com¬missioners sent fro::; Sco.fmd, fannus sir. John Living-,stone was one. contrary to nig inclination; which, as hosays in his Memoirs, he saw, and was fuily pert-usded,that there was nothimr in ad their transactions but theheight of treachery and perfidy, that a little time woulddiscover, and was unwilling to sail the seas with them.But after their k ng was gone a- shipboard, some, out ofpolicy, pressed hi n to go aboard and take his leave ofhim; and, as soon as he went aboard, they sent oft'theboat, and so came hone fuily persuaded the plague ofCod was come to Scot law!; nevt rtheless of his dissemb¬ling, deceitful, hypocritical, feigred-Hpped prayers inhis closet, which was heard tip-ough the partition-wall,betwixt him and the Commissioners in the ship, prayingaloud lor the advancement of the covenanted reformationin Scotland and for the peifbctiog of the work of uni¬formly betwixt the three n;.liens according to thu^so]emu vows in the Solemn League aud Covenant,U.iiy, Many also of the godly at home saw cloudsgathering, and a terrible b!< i k storm coming on, ^.boutthis tune biest Messrs. .M- Vknrd, Cargill, and others,, who,were of one heart and soul seeing with one eye, think-,ing with one mind, and speUing with one breath, metat Glasgow to compare nous, and set a day apart forpr.iytr together, to be mete and, more confirmed pi-their duty of giving warping of the sin and danger ofthe malignant courses driven cn in that b? rraudgml force, especially calling fcotae their-fcead, C’^rb-s if.AWard6Mr. M‘VVarJ was tae first that prlyei. vrhh marc thanorduiary Enlargeisft*r<t and gale upon his spirit, earnestlyfJogging of the Lord, that in mercy, love and pity, hewould seal, spirit, and fit a remnant to stand stecfast,whatever, and from whatsoever airth the wi: .’s mightblow.; and that there might be a succession of faithfulwitnesses raised up to follow the Lord fullv in life anddeath : hut Charles' and Ids interest came not in his way.When ended, they challenged him for it: he said, Letalone, if it be with you as it hath been with me, youwill all go the same road"; and so it was with all ofthem: Freni whence they concluded, that it would hewasted time and prayers that were spent about hint.Mr. Cargill, after that, was never heard to pray for himin public. Mis unhappy birth and restoration day.May 2bth 2-350 which was enacted to be an universalThanksgiving- day, became a trial to some, and a land-sin and snare to many, .and observed to this day. bycattle-guns roaring, though even upon the Sabbath,at twelve of the clock; which dry was Mr. Cargill'sordinary Weekly sennon-d ly. HI? kirk being very throng-w ith tears he said, Do you expect more cr better preach¬ing this day than other days? Or, is it upon account ofyour king? It is like that is man-v of ydur errands; forme 1 desire to be found in the way of my duty, beingour ordinary day. otherwise ! would not have preacheda word upon that account. ll-y>tcenot, O Israel, as otherpeople rejoice; Jor thou art gone a-’whoring frc>m thy God.^Yrd this is the first step of your going a- whoring, whichwill mak way to lead and draw on ton many long andgreat: and whoever of thh Lord's people are this dayrejoicing, their joy will bo like the crackling of thornsvndcr a pot \ it will soon be turned to mourning: Hewill be the vvofuUcst sight that ever toe poor Churchof Scotland saw. Wo wo, wo to him ; his name shallatiuk while the world st.mis, for treacheiy, tyranny,pud h'ichery. i had this account from several oldChristirf.s who were his hearers that day; especiallyt\'t ss lions % aloes Cnristitn, Robert Goodwin, one otJjijr, Dhffearti’s elilcra, when in prison with him,3diy, From7Sdfy, From liis youth he was much giff-ri to secretprayer, yea, whole nights : and it was observed by same,both in families, and when in secret he always sat straightupon his knees, without resting upon any thing with liishan.is lifted up, (and some took notice, lie died the sameway with the bioedy rope about his neck) especially afterthe bloody murder of Mr. Cameron, and these worthieswith hun, at Airds-Moss, July 221 1630, until the fol¬lowing September, that he excommunicated these wickedmen at the Torwood he Was much alone, both nightand day, and spike little even in company; only to somefew he said He had a toi \ to give with his trumpet thatthe Lord had put in his band that w ould sound in theears of many through Britain, snd other places in Fmrope.None knew w hat he was to-cio that morning, exceptMr. '.Valter Smith, to whom he imparted the thoughtsof his heart. vYhen he began, his friends feared thatsome wicked person would shoot him. His landlord,in whose home he had been the past night, c.iSt his coatand ran for it. To some serious, solid Ci.r »t ..ns, whowere present, he said That if these unhappy men diedthe ordinary death of men, God never spate by hen.That afternoon he preac ed upon that text for the LordKill not cast off for ever; but though he cause grief yrt wiUbehave compassion, according to the multitude of hi. mercies.In which sermon he toucaed neither on the tyranny nordefections in the land, rbie confirmed what he said in idsdying words,l’ However it he with me at the last, thoughI should be straitened by God, or interrupted by men;yet all is true and shall be well; I have followed holiness,I have taught truth, t h ive been most in the main things;not that! thought the things concerning our tinns little.”'fthiy, The next Sabb.th-day he preached at theFallow-Mil, in the west end of Livingston parish, uponthe borders of Clydesdale, In tne Pret .ce he said,I kn » I am and will be condemned by many for whatI have done, in excommunicating these wicked men;but condemn me who will, I am approve;, of God, andam persuaded that what I have done on earth, is raiifiedin heaven: For if ever I know the mm of God andwas clear in my call to any piece of ary generation-work.8it was in that; and I shall give you two signs wherebyyou may know that [ am in no delusion.1. It sonio of these men do not find that sentencebinding up»n them ere they go off the stage, and beobliged to confess it, from their terror, and to theaffidghtment of others.2. It these men die the ordinary death, of men, thenGod never sent me, nor spake by me.d he first of these was cie s-y verified in the case ofLord Rothes; and the second was verified also, to theremembrance of many. 1. All know that G miles II.was poi.-oned. 2. His brother, the Duke of York, diedin exile, in St. Germains in France, I know not how.2. liie Duke of Monmouth was beheaded at London.4. 1 he Duka of Lauderdale turned a belly gut and diedupon the chatnoer box. 5. The Duke of Rothes died ra v¬ing, under the dreadful terrors and sense of that sentencebinding upon him, making his. bed shake, to t ie affright-nu nt of alt that heard and saw him fj. Bloody Sir GeorgeM'Kenzie died at London, with all the passages of hisbody running blood. 7. General Thomas Daiaiel of Binns,d'ed with a glass of n ine at. his mouth, in perfect health.Lut a more particular account of these afterwards.^5thjy.. I gave an account in the life and death ofMr. Cameron, that upon the 18th day of July 1680 they,preached together at the Kfprig in Clydesdale-; which wasMr. Cameron s last Sabbath and were to meet and preachat Craigmad in Stirlingshire the first Sabbath of \ ugust,hut Mr. Cameron’s blood and otht r» ran like water on the£2u. July: Mr. Cargill preached on the 23th in the parishct Shots, upon that text, Know you not, that there isa great man and Ih ince fallen in our Israel.” He preach¬ed upon the 1st day of August at Craigmad, and 1 * tiredupon the 22d chapter of Jeremiah, and ran the parallel inso maty part o.bars betw xt Copiah and Charles II. andin the end said. If toat unhappy m is upon the throne ofBritain shall die the ordinary death of men and get thehonour o' the biui-ii of kings, £nd u he shgil have any tu,succeed him, lawfully begotten, theft God never sent «te,nor spoke by me. Hie oid pious praying Mr Reid,late minister in Loehrutton. in Galloway, Mr. Shiels,and George Lapsiy who lived and died a; the Sowhead,heard him utter these expressions: They were all atLondon in the ticne that he was poisoned, who made allsearch to know when, where, or how ho was buried, butcould never find it out. being buried clandestinely; andall know that he had.none to succeed him, althoughmany said, and some write, That if all the women helay with, in adultery and fornication, had conceived andbrought forth, his offspring would have been as the starsin the firmament, spending his time only with wine andwomen, unconcerned about either heaven or hell, andeasy about all religion. Not driving on Rome’s interest,as they expected, and he engaged when abroad with thePopish princes; his brother, the Duke ot York, being asworn vassal to Antichrist, and longing to be at thethrone, that he might be more active in all mischief,made them all conspire to give him a dose and send him®fll The aforesaid friends at London said to me, Thatit was commonly reported, that when he found the poisonworking arpon him. he sat up in his bed, having one of hismany whores in bed with hi-^.as was his ordinary, and tpofca snuff; and it being poisoned al$o, he fell a-roaring andsaid, “ O madman that 1 have been, they have murderedmy best subjects, and banished my son, the Duke of Mon¬mouth, and committed myself to the hand of umrderersi’*6thly, After that excmnnuaication in the Torwood,the fail account whereof is to be found in. the Hynd letLoose, written by famous Mr. Shields: After this therewas a price of (1000 merits set upon his head, for any tocatch him quick or derd. L'ha violent avowed, enemieswere still in search of him before this, bnt more after,who, to gain the prize, had curst Doeg-like intelligencersevery where lying-in-wait to betray him into their hands;notwithsianding he was, remarkably preserved, and manytimes narrowly escaped their hands, until his wpik waadone and his hour come; and then suddenly and suypris-ipgly was catched, as afterwards I shall make plain.Beside10Beside the narrow escapes mentioned in the relationgiven of him in the Cloud of Witnesses, there were otherfour as follows, 1. His horse was shot beneath him atLinlithgow bridge, and he very narrowly escaped theirbloody hands. 2. At Loudon hill, which is before me togive an account of. 3. AttheQueensfer. y, June 3d 1680;when he, with Henry Hall of Haughhead, that worthyChristian gentleman, were upon their way from Borrows-tounness to the Queensferry, these two sons of Belial, thecurates of Borrowstounness and Carriden, walking up»nthe sea side, knew Mr. Cargill, and went in haste toMiddleton, governor of Blackness, and informed him. Heordered his soldiers to come after him : he followed hardto the Ferry, and got notice where they lighted came in,and pretended great kindness, pressing them to take ajlass of wine, until his men came up; then drew his sword,saying,they were his prisoners. Haughhead drew his swordto defend themselves. The w'omen in the town gathered;one el them held Haughhead, to save him. One ThomasGeorge, a waiter there, behind his back, struck him on thehead with the doghead of his carabin, and broke his skull. *The women carried him off. and some of them supportedhim to Echien, near half a mile to the house ofllobertPhuntan, my brother in-law, who was banished with Mr.Peden. The house of Binns being near, Thomas Dalziei’sdwelling-place, (that bloody tyrant, who was general ofthe forces twenty years,) and he having got notice, camein great haste and fury, threatning great ruin to thatfamily for taking in the rebel; and carried him back tothe Ferry, and kept him all night. There is an old Chris¬tian wom.jn (yet alive) who waited upon him ail night,which was a weary night, he not being able to speak toher. passing all his brains at his nostrils, and died nextmorning by the way going to Edinburgh. None can givean account how they disposed on his corpse.Mr. Cargill in that confusion escaped sorely wounded,and crept into some secret place in the south side of thetown. A very ordinary woman found him lying bleeding,took her head- clothes and tied up his wounds in his head,s»nd conducted him to James Phunton’s in Carlowrie; hebeing a stranger, and knew not who were friends or foes;11for which he said he was many times obliged to pray forthat woman. Some say, after that there was a changeupon her to the better He lay in that barn till night,and then was conducted to some friend’s house. Mrs.Punton gave him some warm milk; and a Chirurgeon cameprovidentially to the house, who dressed his wounds.General Dalziel came and called for James Punton,and took him away to Kirklistoun: When set down, thecurator there, (another of the serpent’s brood, who in¬formed him) came and accused him before the generalfor shewing kindness to such a notorious rebel, for whichlie was carried to Edinburgh, and east in prison, wherehe lay three months, and paid a thousand merks of fine.Mr. Cargill, the next Sabbath, preached at Cairnhil],betwixt Loudon and Tweeddale.in his wounds and bioed;for no danger nor distress could stop him in going aboutdoing good, and distributing food to so many starvingsouls up and down the land, his time being short, that sohe might finish his course with joy. He preached that dayupon that text, And ■what shall I say, for the time tvouldfail me. to speak of Gideon and Jephthae. At night somesaid to him, we think, Sir, praying and preaching go bestwith you when your danger and distress is greatest. Hesaid, it had been so; and he hoped that it would be «o,that the more that enemies and all others did thrust thathe might fall, the more sensibly and more discernably theLord had helped: And then, (as his ordinary was) as ithad been to himself, repeated the following words. TheLord is my strength and song, and has become my salvation.That cxviii Psalm was the last Psalm he sung on earth,which he sang on the scaffold.7thly, In the beginning of Novembrr 1680, governorMiddleton being frustrated of his design at the Queens-ferry, and affronted by a few women, delivering the preyout of his and his soldiers’ hands, consulted with JamesHenderson in Ferry, and laid down a hell-deep plot andtrap to catch him, by forging and signing by differenthands in the name of Baillie Adam in C’ulross. and RobertStark in Milns of Forth, that serious zealous solid Christian,whowho hfld his grent share of the tyranny of that time,' ahiother honest leading men in the shire of Fife, for Hender¬son to come to Edinburgh, and make all search forMr. Cargill, to call him over to Fife, to preach at the hillof Baith : Accordingly he found him in the West-Bovr,in a chamber that the foresaid Robert Stark had takenf<jr his children at school; two of them are yet alivein Edinburgh, worthy of credit who will assert the truthof this. Mr Cargill was very willing to answer the calf;but some present perceived that Henderson was eitherdrunk or confused, which made them jealousof treachery.Henderson proposed that he would go before, and havea boat ready at the Ferry against they came: and that hemight know them, he desired to see Mr. Cargill’s clothes,Mr. Skeen and Mr. Boig being in the room with him: inthe meantime he had Middleton’s Soldiers lying in dis¬guise for him at Mutton-hole, three miles from Edinburgh,the highway to the Ferry: there was an Ale-house uponthe south side, and a park dyke upon the north-side, andno eviting them. Mr. Skeen, Archibald Stewart, andMrs. Moor, and Marion Harvie took the wav upon foot.Mr. Cargill and Mr. Boig being to follow upon horses,When they came to the pi ice. the soldiers gripped them;in the ccnfusion Mrs. Moor escaped and went quicklyback, and stopt ' r. Cargill and Mr. Boig who fled backto Edinburgh again, the prisoners were brought also toEdinburgh; Mr. Skeen and Archibald Stewart were ex¬ecuted at the cross of Edinburgh, December 1, 1680.and Marion Harvie, with Isabel Allison, were executedin the Grass Market, January 25, 1681. However Hen¬derson got tile price ot blond, and bought or tiuilt a pas¬sage-boat. which he called Katharine; but many fearedto cross the water in her. Henderson after this turnedmiserable and contemptible in the eyes of all well - thinkingmen; and, some affirm, he died cursing, after he got thatreward for treachery and the price ot blood.Sthly, After this remarkable esoape,seeingrirtthLng butthe violent flames of treacherv and tyranny against himabove all others, he alone keeping up the public standardof the gospel at that time went to England for aboutthree months, where the Lord blest Ins labours in themini-13ministry to the conviction and edification of many poorsouls. In this non such, melancholy, Egyptian darkness.Mr. Kinp, Mr. Kid, and Mr. Cameron, being publicly-murdered; Mr. Blackadder, and Mr Dicksen, in theenemies’ hands; Messrs. Cargill, Douglas and Hepburngone off the kingdom; the rest of the thirty Ministerswhe preached in the fields before Both well bridge, beingfallen in deep silence and compliance with the enemy; inthis time, while men slept, the enemy sowed his tares.In the beginning of the year 1681. the devil begana new project at Borrowstounness : John Gibb, a sailor,and a great professor, (nut many were jealous of him)drew away after him about twenty-six women and threemen, the greater part of whom were serious, exercised,tender, zealous, and very gracious souls; who stumbledupon that stumbling block laid in their way, of m nisters'compliance, silence and unfaithfulness, who before thebreak of Bothwell-bridge, for about eleven years, hadpublicly preached the indispensible duty of all the Lord’speople to follow the gospel und defend the same. Buta tittle thereafter the enemy gave an indemnity, or thirdindulgence to all ministers who formerly preached in thefields, to preach in houses with the Cautionary Band, wit¬nessed against in The Banders Disbanded. They so farcomplied with the enemy's design and desire to have theirPt ndezvous of K hellion, the field-conventicles (as thenCp,'.e^ s grand eye-sore, and great vexation toa i his iriends. the toes of reformation, that they wouldpieach none without houses, even those who formerly7were most zealous and forward that way, whose namesro.ght oe mentioned, and who would not set their facesto doors, when there were any people without. Theselami ntable things, together with the cruel tyranny, shed-mg so much innocent, precious, denr blood, made themsplit with zeal, not omy to cast off all that did not agreewith tnem in every thing; but also to utter strange Inti-gospel imprecatmns, disdiuningund teproaching all othersas backsliders, stating their testimony against all crewn-dues, excise and customs; and for that end would makeX-* I i * "" ev ct 1 La 11; clno use o. ale nor tooacco and oilier f'oolwh things. Tlusepeople atfiist. were commonly calls d S- cet Singers, fromB their14their frequently meeting together, and singing these tear«ful Psalms over, the mournful case of the church PsalmsTt. 79 80 83 137. Thus they continued from the be¬ginning of the year until \pril; then all with one consent,that they might be free from all these foresaid things, lefttheirhouses. warm soft bedsk covered tables; some of themtheir husbands, and children weeping upon them to staywith them; some women taking their sucking children intheir arms to desart places, to be free from all snares andsins, and communion with all-others, and mourn for theirown sins the land’s tyranny and defections, and there tobe sate from the land’s ut ter ruin and desolation by judge¬ments ; some of them going to Pent land-hills, with a re-^solution to sit there, to see the smoke and utter ruin otthe sinful, bloody city of Edinburgh : but if they hadfulfilled their resolution, they would have been sadlydisappointed these 48 years, having but lately died;laying more weight and stress upon their duties of pra) er,fasting and mourning, than upon Christs satisfaction,obedience and intercession; which, alas! that legal andformal spirit is the plague and ruin of the greater P:;rt J0'preachers and prayers at this day, and is ruining m Uechurches. These were a part of the confession of fomeof these gracious women who came under the power otsuch delusions, voluntarily, before a great multitude ofpeople, on the 3d day of March. 1681. at the back hnlof Lesmahago. and matter of mourning to this day.Immediately after they came to ihese desart places theykept a day of fasting, and confessing of their sms one toanother; yea, some of them confest sn s toe wor i apot heard of, and so not called to confess them to men.In the meantime of their lying in this sad pmkle mdesart places, the man of God, blest Cargi , came o\from England; a happv tryst to many godly, zealoussouls, who had a gale of zeal upon meir sjuru.. anf, ared nodangeron the right hand, if they held oft the le.t.Im nediately he was caile i to preach m D^mai.c.muii s,b» 'Ome who retained their former zeal an; ai 'That Sabbath-morning, John Gibb DaviuJ unie, a. rKer John Young, and twenty-six women were J>ing mthe Deer-slunk, in midst of a great flow moss, netwixt15Clvdesda’e and Lothian about a mile distant. Mr. C ir»illsent two men. wnose names l cauld mention, to desirethe n to come and hear ser non and that he might con¬verse with them, several of them being his acquaintances.John Gibb answered. He had left the land, and desertedthe testimony; they did not want him nor any otherminister : it was never better with them, than since ttieyparted with ail of them. He eame and stood on a chair,and had nothing to rest upon with his Bible betwixt hishands, as his ordinary was at all times when I heard him.1 well remember, he sang the first verse of the Psalm,For evil-doers fret thou not, &c. and lectured upon the21st chapter of 1st Kings, from the 17th verse, of whatpassed betwixt Ahab and Eiijih, and Ahab’s outwardhumiliation ; where he had many sententious notes: Andpreached upon that text, Amos iv. 12. Fherefore this willI do unto thee, O Israel! And because I will do this unityihtT prepare to m'et thy God, O Israel! He insisted uponthe foregoing judgements that had proven ineffectual, andfew had returned untolum but this was a nameless judge¬ment, or a non-such stroke. He went to DarhgavelJ,in Camousaethen parish, upon ttie side of the muir. Hesent for them next day; when they came they had a longreasoning m the barn; the sum and substance ofit is to befound in that letter he sent to the women in the Correc¬tion-house, which is published in the Gloud of Witnesses.Two things they required of him, before tliey could joinand own him as their minister. 1. That he would confesspublicly his sin in leaving of the land. 2. That he wouldengage to preash to none lull them, and those that joinedwith them He answered, That he did not see that to besin in leaving the land in such a time, and so short a time,in his circumstances; and he hoped that he had beenuseful to not a few where he had been ; and to preach tonone but them, was a dreadful restriction to his ministry;for his commission was far more extensive.to go and preachand baptise at! nations, and to preach the go.-vpel to everycreature ; and if his trumpet would sounj to the ends ofthe earth, he would preach Christ to all. Gibb and Jamiecarried pistols upon them, and threatned all that came toseek their wives or others from t hem, whichfrighted some.K 2 ThereInere was a bed made for him and John Gib; be Jaydown a little, but rose in haste, and went to the muir allm^'it. I well remember, it wok a cold easterly wet fog.Many waiting on to have his thoughts about them, herefused upon the Sabbath evening to give his thoughts,until he spake with them. They found him in the morn¬ing wet and cold, and very melancholy, wanting rest allnight, and great grief upon his spirit. They said Now,Sir,you have spoke with them, ami have had jour thoughtsabout them, be free with us. He said, My thoughts areboth bad and sad: Tiiis man, John Gibb, is ao incarnatedevil, and there are many devils in him t Wo to him, hisname will stink while the world stands. I bless God, whopreserved me; he might have cut my thrott this night,but I got warning of my danger. As for David Jamie,there is a good scholar lost, and a minister spilt; I haveno hope of him. I am afraid that Walter Kerr and JohnYoung and others will go a greater length, but 1 hope theLord will reclaim many of them. And now go all home,ana pray that this snare may be broke; for this is one ofthe most dreadful and dangerous snares that hath beenin my time; but they ran sefast they will soon discoverthemselves: but 1 greatly fear these wild tares of delu¬sions and divisions will spring and grow, and never herooted out in this land ; which has sadly come to pass.And thus, in preaching and conference, he was mostsententious and plain in discovering and giving warningof the snare, sin and clanger of these wild extremes.—Nevertheless, the indulged, silent and unfaithful, luke¬warm, complying ministers and professors made no dis¬tinction betwixt him and Gibb, but made it their work,by tongue and pen, to bary him and his faithfulness inthe ashes of these vile extremes; and as for anjr of usthat travelled forty or fifty miles, far or near, to hearhim preach, (and no danger or enemy could stop ordiscourage us), they spread that we were away withthe Gibbites. although I never saw John Gibb, nor wasacquaint with anv of his followers at that time: for whichI bless the Lord, that so mercifully and remarkablyprevented it, by heating and following of blest Cargill.After17After this, in the beginning of Miy, the Gillbites wereall taken by a troop of Dragoons at the Wool-hill-craigs,betwixt Lothian and LVeed iale, a very desart place: I'neenemies carried them to Edinburgh; the four men put inthe Cmongate-tolbooth, and the twenty-six women inthe Correction-house, and some of them scourged ; but,as their friends had money, they were all set at liberty'.The greater part of them cime to their right mind, altertney had tasted of the bitter fruits of these delusions,with whom I have since had edifying conversation.The Dake of York being in Edinburgh, he and allother enemies rejoiced at all these strange things, andgave large money to thesefour men; for which they .vrotsa most blasphemous paper to Yorke, cop es of which areyet in the hands of some. In a little time they were allliberate. Tliese four men. with Isabel Brown, and anotherwoman, whose name 1 have forgot, went r, est to the FrostMoss, betwixt \irth and Stifling, where they burnt theHoly Bibles, as they had exclaimed against the Psalmsin metre, and contents of the B ble, as human inventions.Every one ofthe niiad something to shv, when they threwtheir Bioles in the fire. Joon Gibb said, He did that outof despite against God. I'he night before that horridactioi of burning the Bible, A'alter Eerr and John Youngprayed all night in that moss,-and a light shining aboutthem. Shortly after this vValter Kerr turned mad, andwas for some time bound in forphichen. where he wasborn. He came to his right mind again, and went toClyde, a mile beneath Lanark, to the house of Robert andEiizuoetti Bruce, two old s»iid. serious Christians, bothmy acquaintances, who got a iuarty smack ofthe sweet¬ness ofthe gospel, in »h B good da., at the Kirk of Shots,where he served two years, and deeply' mourned, bothnight and day, for what he had done; and wrote thirty-eight steps thereof. He sometimes said, if there wereChristian vlagistrates in the land, lie would go to themand confess all, and seek of them to execute justice uponhim tor ourning tire liio e. He told hi* master and mis¬tress that ne would he taken and banished,which accord¬ingly came to p , s in the year itido. And some of our•B J  iumsuyd1rstnaished (-.vl'.o were with him in Amerifa. and'came home) «ai(! to me, thathe exceeded all ourb mished,that they knew, in prevailing with some to set up the wor-sh'p ot Ciod in their families, and young ones to pray, andjoin in societies for prayer and conference. What becameof him since, I know not.John Young went into Lothian cfter that, arid kepta school, lived retired, and spoke little. Gibb and DavidJamie, Isabel Bonn, and that other, woman, were aga;ntaken and put in the Canongate tolbooth where theytook such fits of seven days fasting, that their voices werechanged in their groanings and gollerings with pain ofhunger, and then such excessive eating, that these withthem admired how their btllits could contjin so much.Gibb was so possest with a raging roving devil that theycould not get public worship performed three times a-day,as their ordinary was in each room. Two -f these prison¬ers took their tour about, lying upon him witha napkinin his mouth. George Jackson, who thereafter sufferedat the Gallowlee, Dec 9th. 168f, at first when be camethere prisoner, said Is that his ordinary? They saidit was. He said. I shall stay his roaring; and tlireatnedGiob. He fell a-trr mbling, and put his own napkin inliis mourh. but could not refrain his roaring. Gforgedesired them to halt in time of worship, and with feet andhands dash’d his head against the wall, and beat him so,that the rest were afraid that he had killed him outfight.Gibb was a big strong man, for which he was called meikieJohn Gibb. After this, whenever they began, he ran inbehind the door, with his napkin in his mouth, and theresit howling like a dog. I had these accounts from theprisoners who were with him, when I was carried into thatiron house, [mmedi itely after, John Gibb David Jamie,and,the foresaid two were sent to America, where Gibbwas-much admjred by the heathen, for his familiar con¬verse with the devil bodily and offering sacrifices to him.He died there about the year 172 ). David Jamie wrotea letter to his father in Linlithgow, where he was born,desiring him not to trouble himself about heaven or hell,for all these things were fancies, J jhn Smith, that serious,so’idl19solid Christian, who was fourteen years ba 'shed there,( who died of late in the parish of Carstairs) carried th atletter, and delivered it to his father: When the good oldman read it, he fainted. ButD iviti Jamie being a piece ofa scholar, got him«elf into public clerking, and a few years-ago, was clerk in the town of New York in New England:I saw his name at Doctor Nicol’s commission here, fora public collection, for building of a church there.Tinas I have given a full and true account of the rise,steps, and monstrous lengths, and fHghrful end of tin seGibbites; which may be a warning to the present andfollowing ages, to tremble and be afraid of coming nmLrthe power of such demented delirious delusions : ardwhereby, all may see, th at the man of God (blest Cargiii)was not mistaken iu all that he did foresee and foretclabout them.Sthly, After that conf rcrce with the Gibbites atDarngavel the next Sabbath-day he preached two milesbeneath Lanark; in the under bank-wood, on Clydeside,upon that text /have set watchmen upon thy Kails; wherehe lamented that it had been the great sin of the Churchof Scotland, in setting up of watchmen that had little orno experience x>f regeneration, and hnd been overly ;ntheir trials, contenting themselves with a clatter of giftsand learning: ard lamented also, that so many watchmenwere fled off the wails, and deserted their posts, frighted,as if they were blasted or thunder-slain. He stayed forSome time in that wood.Tn the beginning of ^iy, 1681 Gavin Wotherspoonand John Stewart, both my acquaintances, two serious,zealous Christians, and great sufferers, came unto him;the braes being steep, and the woods close, he enquiredif there was any appearance of rain ? They said, theysaw none. He said These braes look very burnt-like,* being a cold east drought. Gavin said. A'e fear, if theLord send not rain, there will be a s«arcity of bread —He said, I have been thinking upon that since I cameinto this w,ood;, but, if 1 be not under a delusion, (forthis90this was his ordinary way of speaking, when he gave h?sthoughts of what was to corae) vou need not fear that,as long as this persecution lasts; for the Lord hadha greater respect to his own sutFering people, than tofcuffer such a rough wind to blow in such an east wind;for. if that wore, the i-eavy end of that stroke wouldcome upon his own people : For me 1 am to die shortly,by the hand of this bloody enemy; but you that outlivethis persecution a* I am of the mind you will both do(which they did both, and saw the sad accomplishment)you will see cleanness of teeth, and many a black paleface, which shall put many a thousand to their gravesin Scotland with unheard of natures of fluxes and fevers,and otherwise; and there shall be great distress in theland, and wrath upon this people. Mr. Peden did foreseeand foretel the same things, but in his own peculiar wayof expressing himself' saying, “ As lang os the lads i>reupon the hills, and in glens *nd caves you will havebannocks o’er night; but if once they Acre ben'-aththe bieW of this brae, you will have clean teeth, andinony a black and pale face in Scotland.” The sadaccojnpIish»ient of these sayings will lamentably appearin these following instances.In the year 169L in the month of August, that cropgot such a stroke in one night, by ea-t mist, or fogst nding like mountains, (and where it remained lonsrestand thickest, the bidder were the effects) which all ourold men that had seen fiost, biasthg and mildewing,had never seen tile like.In November that winter, many were smitten within ny sore fluxes, and strange ft vers (which carriedmany off the stage) of such a nature and manner, thatour old physicians had never seen the like, and couldmake no help; tor all th ngs that used to be properremedies, proved destructive: And this was not to heimputed to had unwholesome victual for several who hadplenty of o;d victual did send to Glasgow for Irish meal,and yet w e sne, n with fluxes and fevers in a moreviolent ana infectious nature and manner than the poorest1,- ‘ ■   in:..21in the land, whose names, and places where they dwelt,I could instance.These unheard-of manifold judgements continued forseven years, not always alike but the seasons, summerand winter, so cold and barren, and the wonted beat ofthe sun so much witlvholden, that it was discernable onthe cattle. ing fowls and insects decaying that seldoma fl' or gleg was to be seen • our harvests not in theordinary months many shearing in November and De¬cember yta, some in January and February ; and thenames of the places I can instruct; many contractingthoir deaths, and losing the use of their feet and hands,shearing and working amongst it in frost and snow ; and,after all, some of it standing still, and rotting on theground, and much of it for little use either to man orbeast, and which had no taste or colour of meal.Meal became so scarce, that it was sold at Two Shillingsa-peck, and many could not get it. It was not then withmany, “ Where will we get silver?” But. “ Where wiHwe get meal for silver?” I have seen, when the mealwas all sold in the markets, woman clapping their hands,and tearing the clothes off their heads, crying “ Howshall we go home and see our children die with hunger?They have got no meat these two days, and we haveBothing to gr.\ them.”Through the long continuance of these manifold judge¬ments, deaths and burials were so many and common,that the living were wearied in the burying of the dead.I have seen corpses drawn in sleds, and manv neither gotcoffin nor winding-sheet. I was one of four who carriedthe corpse of a young woman a mile of way; and whenwe came to the grave, an honest poor man came andsaid, Ye must go and help me to bury my son, he h;ielien dead these two days; otherwise I will be obligedto bury him in my own yard. We went, and there wereeight of us had two miles to carry the corpse of thatyoung man, many neighbours looking on us, but noneto help us. I was credibly informed, that, in the north,two22two sisters, on a Monday’s morninff, were found carryingthe corpse of their brotiier on a barrow with bearing-topes. resting themselves many times and none offeringts> help them.I have seen some walking about sun-setting, and nextdav about six o’clock in a summer morning found deadin their houses, without making any stir at their death,their h.*.J lying upon their hand, with as great smell asif they had been four days dead, the mice or rata havingeaten a great part of their hands and arms.M iny had cleanness of teeth in our cities, and wantof bread in our borders: and to some the staff of breadwas so utterly broken (which makes comolete famine)that altho' they eat, were neither satisfied nor nourished.An d so ne of them said to me. that they cou'-d m nd no*t • n; but meat, and were nothing bettered by it; andtnat they were utterly unconcerned about taeirsoufs,whether they went to heaven or hell.The nearer and sorer these plagues seized, the saderwere their effects, that took away all natural and relativeaffections, so that husbands had no sympathy with theirv. ives, nor wives with their husbands, parents with theirchildren, nor children with their parents. These andother thines have made me to doubt if ever any of Adam’srace were in a more deplorable condition, their bodiesand spirits mo'-e low. than matiy were in these years.The crowning plague of all these great and manifoldplagues, was. that many w'ere cast down but few humbled;great murmuring but little mourning; many groaningTinder the effects of wrath but few bad sight or senseof the causes of wrath, in turning to the Lord ; And assoon as these judgements were removed, many were liftup but few- thankful; even those who were as low as any,that outlived these scarce times, did as lightly esteemJ>read as if they had never known the worth of in, but thewant of it. The great part turned more and more gospel-proof and ju Igement-proof. and the success ofehe gospeltook a stand at that timem many places of the land.King23King Williara’s kindness is not to be forgotten, whonot only relieved us from tyranny, but had such a sym¬pathy for Scotland when in distress of famine, that heoffered all who would transport y:c?ual to Scotland thatthey might do it custom free, and have twenty-pence£ur each boll.I cannot pass this occasion of giving remarks on someobservable providences thitfolloweu these strange judge¬ments, ob persons who dwelt on low-lying fertile places,who laid themselves out to r-v.e markets, when at sucha height, and had little sy mpathy with the poor, or thosewho lived in cold muinsh places, who thought those wholived in those fertile places had a little heaven : but soonthereafter their little heavens were tmm d into little hells,by unexpected providences. Some wrote sixteen remarksupon that terrible fire which fell out on the 2d or 3d ofFebruary. 1700. in the Parliament Close in Edinburgh.One wras, that most of those people who dwelt there, w ererich, and lived sumptuously and had little sympathy withthe distressed case of the land that their fine houses,which were eleven years in building, were in a few hoursturned to a burnt, ruinous heap. But, more especially,th're was a farmer m the parish of We stCalder (in whichparish SCO of COO txijme able persons died) who at thattime was reckoned worth 6000 merks of money and goods,that had very little to spare to the poor; the victual layspoiling in his house and yard, waiting for a greater price.Two honest servant-lasses, whose names were Nisbet,biing casi out ot service, (for every one could not have it,many ^aid, they got too much wages that got meat forwork) these two lasses would not steal, and they warsashamed to beg they crept into an empty house, andsat there wanting meat till their sight was almost gone;and then they went,%bout a mile of way. to that farmer’syard, and cut four stocks of kail to save their lives : Hehound them, and drave them before him to the Laird ofBawd, who was a Justice of Peace, that he might getthem punished. The Laird enquired what moved themto go by so many yards and go to his? They said, thesein their way wete in straits themselves, and he could bestspare24spare them. The Laird said, Poor conscionabie things,go your way, I have nothing to say to you. One ofthem got service, and the other died in wantt It washer buiiai I mentioned before, who was buried by usfour. But, lo! in a very few years, he and his werebegging from door to door, whom I have served atmy door, and to whom I said, “ Who should have pityand sympathy with you, whd kept your victual spoilingwaiting for a greater pice, and would spare nothingof your fulness to the poor, and was so cruel to thetwo starving lasses, that you took prisoners for fourstocks of kail to save their lives? You may read yoursin in your judgement, if ye be not blind in the eyesof your soul, as ye are of one in your body, and maybe a warning to all that come after you.” Many yetalive in that ceuntry-sidc, can witness the truth ofail these strange things.By these foregoing relations all may see, that thesetwo servants ot Christ. Mr. Cargill and Mr. Peden,wrre clear sighted in what they did foresee and tell,which sadly and exactly came io pass about 13 yearsafter blest Cargill’s bloody death: And in seeing'andforetelling such strange things, they were not alonein these days: The godly, and zealous, and faitl»'ulunto the death, Mr. John Biackaddtr, was at theCowhill in the parish of Livingstone, in the year 1675,in the month of August: He went into the fiedds inthe evening, being a retired place; when he came in,he was very melancholy: Some friends enquired whatr- ide him so sad? He said, he was afraid of a verydangerous infectious mist to go through the land thatnight, that might have sad effects, of many deathsand great dearth to follow; and desired the familyto close door and window, and keep them as long closeas they might, and take notice where the mist stoodthickest and longest, for there they would see theeffects snidest; which they did; And it remainedlongestlongest upon that town called the Craigs* being withimtheir sight, and only a.few fimiiies: ^nd within fourmonths thereafter. 30 corpses went out of that place.And bad crops followed for three years; the meal wasat half-a-crown the peck; But, lo! in the year 1673,there was such a crop, that the Lothian barley wassold at four pounds the boil, and the pease at fortypence: and for that we got ten thousand Highlaudcnj,five hundred English Dragoons the whole Militia oftthe kingdom and all the standing forces cast in upoathe West of Scotland, at Bothweil-bridge: And. asthey said, they came to destroy, and destroy, thay:would; and yet there was abundance for them all,and the inhabitants also.After Mr. Cargill left the Under-bank Wood, hepreached at Loudoun hill upon a week-day, the 5thof May. He designed only to preach once, and baptizesome children: His text was; No man that hathfollowed me in the regeneration » di be a loser, butgreat gainer.” In his conference lately with theGibbites. finding so much of Peter’s religion amongthem that they had left all and followed him, madehim to insist in shewing that, it was not every pre¬tended way of following Christ he would cither re¬gard or reward; holding forth the great danger andruin to place so much, if not all, of religion in theseexternal parts of Christianity, as prayers, fastings,and mournings, and contendings for the testimony:For sufLiings for the same, though they were duties,in themselves, yet, whoever rested upon them, wouldhave a cauld coal to blow at in the end : Nothing isours but sin. nor due to us but the wages of it. Death.In the application oi that sermon, he gave warning cfthe snares and sins of the Gibbitrs and their actings,aud how dangerous it was to cast off all ministers:And exhorted us to pray for faithful ministers toourse.ves, and never coEtfnt ourselves without them;Iprfor we would not continue long sound in the faith,and straight in the way, if we wanted faithful guides.And, for all the respect that these divided parties ofdissenters, or rather schismaticks and separatists, pre¬tend to Messrs. Cargill. Cameron, Shiels and Itenwick,to be their successors, and maintaining the. testimonywhich they sealed with their blood; how little dothey notice the sententious writings and sayings ofthese worthies? And I am persuaded, if they wereupon the stage this dav, that none would speak, preach,and write more against ail the divided parties of them,and their antiscriptural, wild, unprecedented prin¬ciples and practices: And these that cast off all mini-eters this day in Scotland, if they had been livingthrough all the periods of this church, would neverhave embraced any as their ministers, nor none inother churches this day through the world. It wasone of the sententious sayings of the Rev. Mr. JamesKirktoun, in his pulpit in Edinburgh, insisting uponScotland’s singular mivileges above ail other churchesfor a long time. “ That there had been ministers inScotland that had the gift of working miracles, andprophesying, which he could instruct; and that hehad heard French, Dutch, English, Irish, and otherministers preach, and yet there have been and areministers in Scotland that preach more from the heart,and to the heart than any that ever he heard.” AndI have sometimes heard the worthy Mr. Shiels say,when he spoke of his travels through the world,That the ill of Scotland he found every-vvhere, butthe good of Scotland he found nowhere.— V\ henthe sermon was ended and children baptized, therecame up more children: Friends prest him to preachin the afternoon, contrary to his inclination; whichhe did, upon that text, (Veep not for me. Whenpraying, there came a herd lad, crying. I he enemiesare coming upon you! They had no sentinels outthat day, which was not their ordinary: they wereso27so surprised, that some that had been at Peni!.tn4,Hothwell an i Airdsmoss, and in other great dangers,were so se:zed veitti fear, that some ot the womenthrew their children from them; and Mr. Cargill,in the confusion, was running straight upon the enemy.Gavin vVitherspoon and other friends gripped him,and hauled him into the moss, to wlvch the people tied.Although the dragoons fired hard upon them therewere none either killed or taken that day. A ballwent through Patrick foreman’s hair, but his headwas safe, his hour not being yet come, and that neitherthe time nor place he was to die.About this time some spoke to him, that he preachedand prayed short; who said, “ O Sir, ’tis long betwixtmeals, and we are in a starving condition, and it isgood, sweet and wholesome which ye deliver; butwhy do yon straiten us so much for shortness ?” Hesaid, “ Ever since I bowed a knee in good earnest topray, I never durst pray and preach with my gifts;and where my heart is not affected, and comes not upwith my mouth, I always thought it time for me toquit it: what conies nm from my heart, l have littlehope ihat it will go to the heart of others.'’ Thenrepeated these sentences of the 51st. Psalm, “ Thenwill I teach transgressors thy way, and sinners shallbe converted unto thee.” VVheo was this then ? Justwhen he had the experience of the fortsaid things.—II all this were studied and practised, there would befewer preachers, and snorter preachings, and fewera.id shorter prayers among professors; they wouldnot sleep and wake people, gasping and gollering, andfew understanding what they are saying, as if theywere to he heard for much speaking, or as if Godcould not, or would not hear them without they cryloud, and loving to hear themselves speak, and othersto admire and adore them: Hut these who are longand loud in public for ordinary, will be seldom andG d short28shnn m secret: anci when they ire; they Vvill extend the:P'voice, mat others may hear them' 'which is expressiyiorbijden : vVhen we enter ;nto our closets, we may hearourselves, but no other. If that ioutl way of prayingin secret had been practised by our sufferers is throngprisons, especially in Duhnotar-Castle, there would havebeen a frightlul confused noise amongst them and ex¬posed them to the mockage of the world as mad-men.When he went from Loudoun hdl, he passed throughthe shire of Air, Garrick, and into (railoway, preaching,baptizing, and marrying, but staid a short time there.—When he left Galioway, ke said. Farewel. Galloway, for1 wdll never come back to thee again: Thou art nowGalloway, but thou wilt become a VVallaway, and I fear■other shires in the south and west of Scotland will belittle better. Mr. Peden had the same expressions.He came to Clydesdale, where he took most delight,and had greatest liberty in preaching and praying; andseveral other ministers at that time had the same. Hedesigned to have preached at I'into-hill. but the Lady ofSt. John’s Kirk got notice, and wrote to some public menthat he was to preach at Home’s Common, in toe backof Coulter-heights: Ho was that night in John Liddie’s,in Heldinire, near Tinto-hill: he went early in the Sab-b'th mprning to it, thinking to spend the morning alone;• but when he saw the people passing on, he called to someof them, and enquired where they were going? They’tohihim ; he said, That’s the Lady’s policy, to get us at somedistance from inr house; but she will be discovered.*He lectured that day upon the 6th of Isaiah ; uponwhich he had manv sententious sayings, I remember,'from that word. fV/io)n shall I send? Attd-vsho will go■forms'? He said, To speak with holy reverence, we secthat the Trinity of heaven may he at a stand, where toget a fit messedger to carry the message ; The prophetsaid, Here am /, send me. It is like, if he hid knownwhat he was to do, he wou.'d not have been so forward:Fur. if an haoest hearted minister might refuse any errandthat29that God sent him, it would be to denounce judgmentsupon a people, especially spiritual; hut the hand of Godwas here. A.nd, when he got his commission to preachto that people and they grew more and more deaf andblind, he ciied out, [low long? And the answer was re¬turned, Until the city he without inhabitants, and the lamiutlcrlij desolate. After he insisted n little in explainingthese words, he said, groaning deeply, If he knew anything ot the mind of God. this is the commission that weare getting, and the commission that ministers will get,to preach the generation more and more deaf and blind.And preach who will, and pray who will, this deafnessand thisbhndness shall remain until many habitable places»> Scotland b.; as wane and desolate as these mountains(looking to them with a very weary countenance.) Butremember 1 am setting no time to tins we know not whatspirits we are oi; a thousand yarn appear in his sight,as one any; and a delayed thing is neither forgot norforgiven; and thelonger delayed, toe sorer when it comes.It will be the midnight cry, the foolish found asleep,and tuc wise slumbering, and will come upon you asa thunder-clap 1 He went on to tlie following verse,/e/ hi it will be a tenth, who shall bo as an Oak, whichhath the substance in the root. And from tint he asserted,that, as the Lord had preserved a remnant through ullthe periods of the Church, so he would preserve a rem¬nant that would ride out ail these winter storms.lie preached upon these words in the forenoon, Be.net high-minded, but fear. His first note was, That thesewho know themselves best, would fear themselves most;aod that, as it was hard to determine what a lengtha hypocrite may go in the profession of religion, it wasas hard to determine what a length a child of God maygo in defection, having grace, but wanting the ertercis'.Jthereot; and that a Christian at ht go through nine¬teen trials, and carfy honestly in them, and fall in thetwentieth. While in the body, Be not high-minded, butpar. I am not speaking this of these wret ched creatureswo to them ! some of the n are nothing but devils, andmany oi them are misled. For tha Lord’s sake look notttO t-lL'SC. f mf»an .Fnhn riilih ami KJa ^r» r»r»-inirsoThe rozt S \l>b ith.-'Jay he preached at the BentTry-brid^s. betwixt Clydesdale and Lothian. He lecturedin Zecherijh on Joshua standing before the Vngel: andpreached in the forenoon upon these words- Gird thysword upon thy thigh and ride prosperously. His firstrcte was, That no sooner Christ became all and all toa soul, but the next wish of that soul is, O that he werethus to ali the world ! And let never none think that theyare in a right exercise of true religion, that want zealfor God s public glory. And in the afternoon on thesewords. What luill ye do in the day of visitation ? WhereiisUl ya'ii’jlce for help? And where will you leave ydur glory?Fronj that he said, What would all that knew not God,and obey not. the gospel do ? For he was comiag inffuning fire, to take vengeance upon a!! such : Andwhat would all wicked law-inventors, enactors, andexecutors dor And all in'ejuitous law-obejerj andkeepers do? Where would they flee for help? Andwhere will they leave their ill-gotten glory?From the Bendry-bridge he went to Fife, and baptizedmany children; and preached only one .Sabbath at theXomond-hills, and hasted back to Clydesdale, and cameto Benty rig. in Cambtlsnethen parish, where two friendswere sent from the Societies in Galloway to call him backto preach and baptize there. After he enquired for theirwelfare and friends in Galloway, he said, Have yourfriends now in Galloway any thoughts or fears of theFrench or other foreigners, coming upon you? They said,Noi He rose and went out (being a desalt place) toa moss-hag, being the best chamber oft times that he,Mr. Cameron, Mr. Run-wick, and Mr. Shiels had in thosedays, who displayed the public banner of the gospel,after the defeat at Bothwell-bridge. U was but a shorttime tnat he staid in company and converse, these twoGalloway men said to other friends, in that bounds, whowere my very dear acquaintances, who told me, M hydoes-the minister speir such a question at us. thosefriends said. Enquire at himself, for we find this is hisordinary wbh friends who have been any time out ot hiscompany. VVnen he came in, they said. We have been3tthinking on what you said to us. and we cannot under¬stand what you mean by it. After musing a iittie (f<>rthat was his ordinary, especially when they enquired anything euncerning the times) he said, If I be not undera delusion (for this was his ordinary also, when he spokeof things to come) the French, and other foreigners, withwicked, unhappy men in this land, will be your stroke ;and it will come in such a nick of time, when one of thesenations will not be in a capacity to help another; forme. I am to die shortly by the hands of these murderers,and will not see it- I know not how the Lord’s peoplewill endure it that have it to meet with, but the fore¬sight and the forethought of it makes me to tremble!And then, as his ordinary was, as it had been to himself,said, Snort but very sharp.There were two very young lads, who were my verydear billies, whose converse and prayer together havebeen very edifying to me and die remembrance cf itthis day is stvoury, who lived in the Styrry-sliaw, wasvery rear the Benty rig where he wxs, Thomas andJohn Marshal, to whom he said, at that same time, Lads,ye have meikle need to pray in earnest you have a sharpstorm to meet wiih and many strange faces to see andyour bom s shall lie in a stiange land. This came to passthree years there ift‘ r, in December IGSL, about the sametime that I fell into the enemies’ lianas: Meldrum thatwicked persec«r,or, (whom the world hath heard o! )apprehended them, and carried tnem to Glasgow.—Walter Gibson merchant there, got a gift of them andother twenty-eight, who starved and poisoned them withlittle and bad victuals, above all that ever I heard of thatcarried our banished to foreign lands; few of them inthat ship lived any time in Carolina: Thomas died ina little time after their landing there; John lived forsome time, and died there aisa.That which was the occasion of our banished being• carried to so many different places in tne world was,in, these days there were Scots regiments in France,Flanders, and Holland; and when their men decayed,officers1 ^ —■—~—- -oS .'crs cam-? horn? seeking recruits; hearing of prisoners'that vyere under banishment, they got gifts of them fromthe wicked, bloody Counselors and carried them to theseplaces. Then merchants, such as Gibson in Glasgqvr,and \f allodi in Euinbu gh, Pitlochie, a laird in Fife’and many others, got gifts of them (and as the old sayingis, Cocks are free of other folks corn.) who transportedthem to Carolina. New Jersey, Jamaica, and Barbadoes,to be their slaves; but none of them made their piacka bawbee with trading in such wares: which confirmswhat that singular Christian, James Clarkson, merchantin Linlithgow, whom the faresaid M.lioch got a gift of,witii other thirteen, said, when put on shipboard inthe roads at Leith, to which I was a witness, \Ve aretae baddest. wares that ever Malioeh had in his mckshert;and d Maiioch, or any other t.hat trade in such wares,be ru t great losers. I am mistaken.”In that short time teat olcst Cargill had to run. lieran fast on foot, having lost several horses in h's remark¬able escapes. Where-ever he was called, at several times,ana to dilferent places oi the land when he sat down forrest, being old and weary, he took a look of the manygentlemens buildings, and said, Your lords, lairds, andgentlemen are making braw houses, and large pirks; butthey may build at leisure, it will not ho long that manyof them will possess their houses, which have been restsof wickedness and uncleanr.ess: They have dipt theirbands in the persecution and deep compliance, but fewof them have had a fur of land to spare for the intire^fof Christ, and it will go a worse gate, and their inherit¬ances will vomit out their names. The accomplishmentof this saying cannot pass the observation of any who seewith half an eye, being so universal t \nd their own sadexperience can testify, that since that time, being nowforty- nine years since his death, more estates of hundredsof years standing, have changed masters, than did fora hundred years before, almost in all corners of the bind.Besides these lamentable holding reasons that he gave,several other reasons and occurrences have fallensince, to bring it to pass; such as, We always hear thenameS3name of the poor prjud S~ots through the world; an3,as our poverty incre-aseth. sour priUe, vanity prodigalityand ambition grow of airy fool stilt^ and titles vVt wereall once fairly ranked in our solemn National Covenants,all Noblemen, Gentlement Barons, Burgesses Mnisterfe,-and Commons of all ranks; but 'ince these Covenantswere broken burnt, and cast by, as almanacks out of d ite,we were all gene out of rank and •‘file, the honour dueto the superior is given to the interior, our goodman andgoodwife is turned to Sir and Mistress, and our Sir -andMistress is turned to Your Honour and M idam : Sincethe rebellion 1715, and since the stock-joabing a foolishhaste to be rich hath made many poor; and many otherways and things, such as living above their stations andincomes, spending tfeeir money on gaming, wine andwomen, have brought tc to pass. There are somesentences in the end of our National Covenant thatmay strike terror to the hearts of all ranks; such as,“ We call the living God, the searcher of our hearts,to witness, who knowetb this to be our sincere desireand unfeigned resolution, as we thall answer to JesusChrist, at the great day, and under the pains of God’severlasting wrath, and of infamy and loss ef all honourand respect in this world/’ &c.The next Sabbath, after he went from the Bentyrig,he preached at Aoehingilloch, on the south side ofClydesdale, and then returned to Clyde 1 he weekbefore he was taken, he was in the Lee-wood, where hemarried Robert Marshall of Starryshaw, brother to theToresaid Thomas and John Marshall. After they weregone from him, Marion Couper, spouse to John Weir,who dwelt in the Mains of Lee. two solid Christians andsufferers in that time, brought his dinner to him in thewood: In the time thereof he said, What induced Robertto marry this woman ? I'his woman’s ill will overcomehis good ; he will not keep the way long, his thrivingdays are done. Which sadly came to p iss in every jot.A little time thereafter he was taken and put in prison,fell in foul compliance with the enemies, went home andbeard the Curates, apd-other steps of defection, and be¬camecams lightly esteemed. This was the last marna*e heperformed ; m which both he. Mr. Peden, Mr. Cameronand Mr. Renwick, took as little delight, as in any pieceof their ministerial work, although they would neitherdissuade or refuse, having such a deep concern upontheir spirits, and looking upon it as an evidence of un¬concernedness about the many grievous tilings in thatday, and of such a tendency to increase their afflictions,borne of them shortly thereafter were taken, hanged,shot, and banished; their wives and children put fromtheir houses, having no certain dwelling-place; all whichI can instruct, some of all these being my acquaintance.When Marion was pressing him to eat, he said, Let alone’I cannot be pressed; for I took not that meal of meatthese thirty years, but what I could have taken as muchwhen I rose as when I sat down.I had the happiness to hear blest Mr. Cargill preachh;s last public Sermon (for which, while I live, I desireto bless the Lord) in Dunsyre Common, betwixt Clydes¬dale and Lothian; where he lectured on the first chapterof Jeremiah, and preached upon that soul-refreshing text,Isa. xxvi. two laT verses, Come, my people, enter intoyour chambers, See. \\ herein he was short, marrowy, andsententious, as his ordinary was in all his public Sermonsand Prayers, with the greatest evidences of concerned¬ness, exceeding all that ever I beard open a mouth, orsaw open a Hi ole to preach the gospel, with the greatestindignation at th« unconcernedness of the hearers. Hepreached from experience, and went to the experienceor ail that had any of the Lord’s gracious dealings withtheir souls. It came from bis heart, and went to theheart; as 1 have heard some of our common hearers sav,He spake as never man spake, for his words went throughthem — He insisted what kind of chambers of protectionand safety these were: and exhorted us all earnestly tod well in the clifts of the rock, to hide ourselves in thewounds of Christ, and to wrap ourselves in the believinu-application of the promises, flowing therefrom; and torn-ike our refuge under the shadow of his wings, untilthese sad calumnies pass over_ and the dove cotne backwith35with the Olive leaf in h( r meuth. These were the lastwords of his last Sermon.Some time that night, having several miles to travel,not daring to leave that desait place until it was dark,for fear of enemies, it was contrary to his inclinationto go that way, but the Lady of St. John’s Kirk waspresent, who had influence upon Mr. Smith and Mr. Boig,who prevailed with him Notwithstanding of her greatprofession, he was always jealous of her, and would nutgo to her house; and several times ssid Whatever endshe might make, there would be foul wide steps in herlife. That Lady not only followed the persecuted gospel,but also frequented private s cietv.me tags, particularlywith these two old singular Christians, Thomas Johnston,in Grangehall in Pettinain, and Francis Liverance, inCoventoun. -/ho were both my acquaintances. Site seve¬ral tiit.es said to them and others that if ever she turnedfrom the way of the Lord she knew not what she wouldmake of these three Scriptures, viz. Heb. vi. Being onesenlightened &c. Heb. x. Sinning vcilfully &c. and thatin 2 Pet. ii. It had been belter for them. &c. Yet. after that,when hard came to hard, in the two slaughter years of1684-85, she turned so far out of the way, that she be¬came a persecutor, and would suffer none to dwell inher land that would not hear the plagued Curates nortake the Oath of Abjuration. The two foresaid worthyChristians went together, to know what she made of theforesaid Scriptures, but she would give them no access,by causing the gates to be shut against them, it beingabout the middle of January, 1687.— Mr. Cargill wentalong with her thelength ofCovingtoun‘mi!l,to the houseof \ndrew Fisher, and his'spo'.-e, ElLibeth Lindsay,my acquaintance, about a mite from her house, nearTinto-hill, but would go no further.James Irvine, of Bonshaw, who formerly made a tradeof fine horses, of outfang and infang betwixt the king¬doms, went to the Council and General Dalziel, and gota general commission, although he was no nfiieer. All then knew that the wickedest and vilest of men werethenthen employed; and where ever he was inhumed bythe cursed intelligencers that any of the Lord’s sufferingpeople were hiding, that the forces, foot and horse, wereto ride and march at his command: Accordingly, thatSabbath-night, at the sun-setting, he mounted witha party of dragoons from Kilbride, and the next morningat the sun rising, he came to St.John’s Kirk, twentymiles, and searched that house narrowly ; then came toJames Thome on’s, in the Muir-house, ami searched it.Many reflected upon the foresaid Lady, that she, onlyleaving these worthies a few hours before that, in thetime they were searching her own house and that ofJames Thomson's, which took some time, did not sendand advertise them, being only a mile distant. Next hecame to Coving-tours-mill, and surrounded the house andchamber, two beds, being in it. where I have rested somqtimes since, where they were lying, and not fallen asleep.When he found them, he cried out, Oh blessed Bon. k awland blessed the day that eves- he was born, that had foundsuch a prize this morning. Tin's he did and said out ofhis great wickedness, and prospect of the rich rewardthat was set on the head of Mr. Cargill, to any that wouldapprehend him either quick or dead, being 6000 merks.They marched hard to Lanark, and put the prisonersin the Tolbooth, until the soldiers got meat and drink.They got h arses bmught them out in haste, and set themon their bare ht.cks Bonshaw, with his own hands, tiedMr (. largill’s feet below the horse’s belly very hard , helooked down to him and said. Why do you tie me so hard?Your wickedness is great, you null not long escape thejust judgment of God; and, if I be not mistaken, it willseize upon you in this pkvce.They hasted to Glasgow, being sixteen miles, fearingthe prisoners would be taken from them; for many ofthe Lord’s zealous people would willingly have venturedtheirn// to have delivered their brethrendrawn untodeath,and those who were ready to be slain Prov. xxiv. 11. &c.But their taking being so surprising, and their march sohasty, they could not be convened, When they camenear37near tta citv. tfipy trraod him irp^n the horse and lefihim backward; which made many to wet p. to see theirold minister in that posture, he being for some yearasettled minister in the liarony Kirk and some wicked t»rejoice. 'Vhen they c :me to die tolbooih. they halteduntil the Magistrates came to rect ire them. John Nisbet,Bishop Paterson of Glasgow’s factor looking orer tl>Gstair, out ofbis great wiekedness merrily sai l, Mr. Cargill,(three times over, in sport), In effect, wit) vou not give u»©ne word more? This he said, because Mr Care ill, mpublic, sometimes said. In off ct we will say one word;or, 1 have one word more to say. Mr. Cargilhlooked tohim. and with concernedness said. Wicked poor man,why do you mock ? Ere you die, you will desire one w ordand will not get it. Shortly thereafter he was struck dumb,his tongue swelling in his mouth, llobtrt Good win andJohn Hodge, two Glasgow men. who were witnesses tothis and went to visit him lying in that case, told me thiswhen in prison, in the years IGst-fco in the Cannong Ueof Edinburgh. Robert Goodwin desired him to writewhat stopt Imn from speaking and if he had a greatdesire to speak. He wrote, That it was a just judge¬ment from the Lord, and the sayings of Mr. CargillVerified upon him for hi mocking of him ; and if he hadthe w iole world he would give it for the use of histoague again But that he never get.Bonshaw basted to Edinburgh with his prisoners, srulwhen Mr. Cargill came before the Council, ChancellorRothes raged against him being one ot the seven whomhe had excommuoicuted at t.ie lorwood the precedingyear, and g ve them over to their father the devil whoseworss they did. and to whose service thee had devotedt),■ nse 1 Vi".. R ubes tbreatned him web extraordinarytorture, and a violent death. He said, M> Loro Rothesfor heal to threaten tae, for die whet death l may, yrnireyes will not see it. And it it wdi know* to some vetalive, that he died that men i ,g that Mr Cargill, andfhcic worthies with him, sufL-red m the afternoonShortly38Shortly after this appearance of Mr. Cargill beforethe Council. Rothes was seized with sickness and pairs {Ana when he found the pings of death turnin': sh^rpUpon him, he cried out for some of his wife’s ministers,(she being a favourer of the Presbyterian ministers) forhis ministers were pood to live wit!), but not to die with.II e sent for old Mr John Carstairs, who with Mr GeorgeJohnston,came to him. Mr. Carstaiis dealt very faithfullyana freely with him rehearsing many wicked acta of hislife: To whom he said, We a!l thought little of whatthat man did in excommunicating us; but J find thatsentence b’nding on me now, and will bind to eternity.When Mr. Johnston was praying, several noblemen antibishops being in the next room, some of them said tothe bishops He is a Presbyterian minister that is prayirg ;the devil ane of you can pray as they do though yourprayers would keep a soul out of hell. Rothes roaringso loud under horror of conscience, for his active wickedlife in persecuting, made these noblemen leave himweeping. William Duke of Hamilton, said, We bini«hthese men from us and yet when dy ing, vve call lorthem. this is melancholy work!Mr. Cargill, and these martvrs murdered with him,got their indictment with sound of trumpet: When theyended their sound, he said, I hat’s a weary sound, hutthe souna of the last trumpet will be a joyful sound to me,pnd all found having on Christs righteoushe»>,While in prison, a gentlewoman visiting him, told himsn eping, that the heaven daring enemies were contrivingend proposing an extraordinary violent, deat-h fer him;some, a barrel with many pikes to roll him in ; others,an iron chair, for his body to r- ast and burn there. Hesaid. Let you, nor none of the Lord’s people be trouoledfor tirese things: for ail that they will get liberty to .toto me will be to knit me up, cut me down, and chop oftmy old head; and uien fire them well, they have honewith mo, and I with them lor ever!W uen39Wh°a hp, and those with him, came to ^et their sen¬tence of death their indictment- were read, wherein th yhad their sentences, as thei^ common form then was viz.Having cast off all fear of Go 1. and acted so and so ;and therefore deserved to be punished so and so:" Hesaid to the Cterh. Halt! and (pointing to the apostateSir George Mackenzie, then King's Vdvocate) said.The min that has caused that paper to be arawn in thatform, hath done it contrary to the light of,his own con¬science: for he knows I have been, a fearer of God fro«my infancy ; but 1 say, the man that took the Holy Biolein his hand, and said, that it would never be well withthe land till that book was destroyed, with many otherwicked expressions and actions of his life; l say, he isthe man that has cast off all fear of God. The Advocateetor ned at this, but did not deny the truth of it, knowingthat he had thus expressed himseif, in some cf his wickedmad fits. There is yet alive an old reverend minister inthe south of Scotland, who was witness to this, and canassert the truth of it : who several times since has said,that he admired the compotedaess and confidence ofMr. Cargill.While in prison, he hid v-ittrn more at large, thoughhe was short, marrowy, and s.nuintious in preaching,praying, and writing, as mav be seen in his few publicLetters, his last snort Si eo 1 i. and what he spoke uponthe sear.ol i. published in the C oud of Witnesses, whichI wish from my he rt - i t ajl the Lord's people wouldnarrowly and serioi>ly peruse; they have been very use¬ful and edin ing to me and many, at icrs. His more largep per was Uken from him, by the wicked, cursed keepersof that time . his simr.t speech left behind him he wrot*that morning beUro he suff red, before eight o’clock,when the doors were opened.He and these worthies murdered with him, got ihm'rsentence, of death the day before, when he uttered theseadmirable and very rare sentences viz. That that dav wastoe most Joyful day in all his life; and that he had notbeen wunoui aa assurance of ins interest in Christ these3 tttrty'tlrirtv yeirs. nor out of prisoner: snfl that'tientver Jur-t u>i.'iertafce to preach Christ and salvation to•tilers until he was sure of ins own. (Oh 1 if all our mini¬sters had taken tms course, there had been less defection» sionjr hi. )< Vnd that it was long since he durst haveventure 1 upon death and eternity, alfho’ death remainedsome vn it ternbie; but now the terror of it was taken•way: and by virtue of the mercies of God, and meritsci G tri«t. he had a conscience as quiet and culm as iffee never bad sinned.When he came to the scaffold and foot of the ladder,lie blessed the Lord with uplifted hands, that he was■finis near the crown; and when setting his foot uponthe ladder, to go up, he said, The Lord knows I go upthis ladder with less fear, confusion, or perturbation ofmind, thin ever l entered a pulpit to preach. He wasfi St turned over. And as Mr. Smith did cleave to himin love and unity in life, so he died with his facetrpon his breast. Next, Mr. Boig; and then WilliamCuthill, ahd Wiliium Thomson. Chcse five worthieshung all on one gibbet at the cross of Edinburgh, onth it never-to-be forgotten bloody dav, the 27t h. of July,1831. The hangman haslred and hugged oiT all theirheads with an axe. Mr. C.iredii’s, Mr. Smith’s, andMr. !doig’-j heads were fixed upon the Nctherbow-port;William CtfthiH’s and William Thorr.p on’s upon theWest Bori. The enemies got this great giut of bloodthe day before the down-sitting of Parliament whereinthe Hake of YofU did preside as Commissioner.Tile wicked, cursed of God. and bated of all right-thinking men, Bm shuw. got not ids reward in 8000 m, rkstirl the next year in May the price of innocent blood,di ir blood, blood that cries both loud and long? Howshall, or can the tyranny of shedding innocent hood, anddefoctiuns Of all ranks in these days, be forgot? Shortlythereafter he came to L mavk, where he and one ot loscursed comrades fell a fighting; his corav ale thrust himthrough the bfldy with a sword, where Weird amt diitran out. This MCtfMU i feau from sevetal w orthy persons,wh*41wlia were witnesses to hot’s t'ne tiireatnin<rs of the maaof God, \r!ien lie tied him hard, and to the accomplish*ment thereof, donshaw’s last words were, “ (jo;i damnhis soul eternally, for he was yone.” Misc’iief shall huntthe violent man till he be ruined. What makes good toeold Scots saying, “ Such iife, such end,”Whose desires to he further informed of the life 3ik1death of blest Mr. Cargil, may peruse the reiati ms thatare given of hi n by Air. Shiels in the Hind Let Loose,and in the Cloud of Witnesses. His last testimony, andwhat he spake upon the sc mold, his narrowy sententiousletter to several prisoners when under sentence of death,his letter to the Gib'oites in the correction-house, andhis letter to his parish, yet in the hands of dome, are tobe found in tne Cloud of Witnesses,A\ hen that blest singular Christian, zealous and faithfulminister anil martyr, Mr. Carcii!, was first apprehendedand hrougut before tire Council they were tierce arslfurious against him espeddly Chancellor Rothes; butthose tlut were in Coun i!. aud heard wh it Mr. Cargillsaid to him, and saw and Deard what Rothes said uheahe was dying, roaring under horror of conscience andhis bed shaking, put a fng ,t upon their -.pints, and drewtears from their eyes; which verified wfiat he said atthe bahtphiil on tnc S ibb*»th att-. r the Eve r nmusication,8s oetore related, an 1 made them tu pro nose in Council,d nat as he was old, and had done all the ill that lie! Tyau,d t0 f t nii« go to the dissV uni be prisonerlucre during life, [t was put to the vote,and Argyll sa d,I " Let hm go to the gallows, and die like a Jruitor,” ^vinch cast tijs vote ijpon ir. u to die.i ue P trliam >nt sat down the day following. July 28th,Ib'Sl. wtiicn framed the curs: d I’est. with seven contra¬dictory oaths in ii. which Irgvb took vAch explication,i us dw, not satisfy the Duke of Yoiklfcid otiters, lookingupon lima with an ill eve, bees use of his father beingqetive in our reformation. He was immediately clapt up|>,isonvr jn uis Castle, cut. o; which he escaped the S0t-14S<!ny of December fnHowing. He fle<? «outh tothebw^er,■where he met with Mr Yeitch, late minister in Dumfries,who conducted him through the country to the house o4‘Mr. Hit:e>t;)n, near Newcastle. After they were set down,Mr. li:t!cston said (n«t knowing Argyle. bsfing disguisedin coarse clouths) [ licve received a letter just row fromScotlm.l that \rgyie has escaoed out of the Castle, ofwhich I aan very glad, if it be certain, Mr. Veitcb said,fee doubted not the certainty of it. Tlsey insisted bothat expressing their joy at the ne«> : VIrs. tiitlesron beingpresent, said, I cannot be so much taken up with thatnews as you are; I know that the house of Vrgyle wasa good house for our reformation, and ins father sufferedfor it; but, for himself, he hath bten a member of thatwicked blood} Council these eighteen years, where manya wicked thing hath been acted and done; nut, above alf,it was his vote that took away the Ide of our worthy dearfriend singular Mr. Cargill; and I nm sure ids blood maylie heavy on him now, and make him have a melancholyflight and hiding. Argyie made no reply. After theyhad got a drink, she conveyed them to different rooms.A little thereafter she went to \rgvle’s room, being thegreatest str inger; he had laid down a fine waten andicght-cap on tlie table, which .' I not answer his clothes ;and wVen he had cast off his clothes the room was per¬fumed. Site came quickly back to her husband, ami said,J am persu ided this is Argyie. He said. I ant of tnesum a mind. hut you are oft times o’er plain in yourcli-eourse. She said No no; it is goo 1 speaking to himno v iu the day of his distress ; f we were once set dftwnto dinner £ s nil y-e more freedom. In the time thereoftbey came to speak oi his escape again ; She took theoccasion and told til the ill tilings she heard about him.Ha said, \rgyle will not (ree himself of many of thesetjiipgs. but he is not so guiltv of them all as the worldreports him to ba. \tt -r this M . Veitch to'd themt l it it w'is Arj fle, and tint he was resolved for London.H * than put himself m another dress, but could not geta good horse. Mr. Sitleston gifted him his gelding, andaent his son John to convoy them, who gave me thisaccount when Its returned. Argyle gave him a lutlepurse1fMHie ftru? thirty gvineap in it: when he c*rne to lugfiithec, he gave the purse to him : hi# father suiJ, Johote$if' I hai known this, vou shoufd not h*ve gone your toot*length with them; there is more here than any i*orseis worth. Mr. Ve.tch convoy etl him t * London. VVIaertMr. Veitch ported with him, he slid (iiv“ mv love andservice to all friends where we h ive been, especially toray free-communin;; landlady Mrs. Bitleston. From t uthe went to Holland, and was abroad to the mi ld.e ofMay 1685. and then came to Inverary with so e men,and many notable arms. Monmouth came to Englandthat same summer.After Argyle landed, one morning walking at thewater-side ver\ sad. Mr. Thomas UrqaU 'it, who sufferedin the Grass-Market that same stiw.mier. came to him,and said, l ana sorry to see your Lordship so inelancholy.He said, rlow can l he otherwise? i see f<ov coming toour assistance; I am persuaded I will be calLd int. tuateArgvle; but ad ihit does not trouble me so mueii asthat unhappy wicked vote 1 gave against that good manand minister, Mr. Cargill; and I e-n now persuaded I’ll•lie a violent death m the sa.ao spot where he died.However, Argyle sot together above 1500 men andexpected a great many more would have joined him in♦rder to oppose the King and Council m their bloodycruelties can icdon in these days but he was disappointed;and after several unsuccessful attempts without evercoming to any total action and iiis o8i jets <iiff*ring amongthemselves, the must of his men des< rted ; and finding itimpracticable to do any thing to purpose he dismissedthe whole, and put himself in disgu se.but wa* soon tikenby a few militia at the water of Incliimwn. He wascurried to Edinburgh with a strong guar 1 and by orderef the Council carried up toe street with his hands tiedbehind his back, and b ire-headed, the hangman goingbefore him, and lodged in the Castle. \n t in order urmake quick work, the sentence that was passed ag. msfchim 16*. 1, three years before, for his explicating of theTest, was put in execution, without bringing him to any'further trial. Whale^ 3»U, in tHe C^stie he had these remarkable expr*s»^sions. in conversation ndtii a dear friend: Aly grossconpiUnces are now sad aad grievous to me; for theset ie Lord would not li ;nour me to be instrumental iahis work, but 1 desire to die in the faith of a deliveranceto his Lourch and people; and tho’ 1 will not take uponnre to be a prophet yet having strong impressions thereofupon my spirit f doubt not but her deliverance will comaVery suddenly, -and I hope it saall be well. It is true,niv family is low. and [ have nothing to leave them ; butjt they seek God, they will be wonderfuilv seen to, andprovided for, and if they do not, f care not what come©I them,. I fear some have eyed me too mu«h as ankistrume.ii; lean not U the arm of flesh,”Tie dy- of Ms execution (80th. June, 1585.) hisL<Wdsh:p dined with grave and bocoming chearfulness;and being used to sleep a little after meat, lie retired tothe closet, an i laid himscif down op a bed and for abouta quarter ol an hour slept as sweetly and pleasant asever he did. Meanwhile an officer ©f state came rn andenquired tor him. Hits friends told him that his Lordship,as usual, was taking a nap after dinner, and desired thathe might not be disturbed. When he saw the E iri in thatposuire he was so impressed, that he hasted from theC astle to a relatiou’s in the Castle-hill, and throwuighimself on a bed, discovered great distress of mind ; andwhen askew the cniise of all Ids trouble, said 1 have beenin at Vrgv’e, and saw him sleep as pleasantly as evera man did, and he is now within an houi of eternity }liut as lor me, &c.His Lordship, when be came to the sc Sold, delivereda very judicious and peous discourse to the spectators;it r which, having taken leave of his friends, he at l istpeeled down, and embracing the Maiden, said, Thisis the sweetest in Aden 1 ever kissed it being the meanto finish my sin and misery, and my inlet to glory, forw hich I long, ’ | hen he prayed a little wilhm himseif,thrice tittering these words. ^ Lord Jesus rtccive meinto thy glory 1 ’ Vnd lifting up Ids hand which wasthe signal, the exeeutioaef did his worls» Tbw45TSik A'erl die noble E irl of Vreyle, a marti r n*f #T)^rfo ti ic Protestant K, *iut also btann^ his ifi«.t tt^ti*Biooy against Hre.acy as well as Popery. His too 41 atcompliances wita tne managers pitvjous to th atl'i.r©ftiie 1'est lay heavy upon Inm to the last; but notmoggrieved him so much as the unhappy vott he gavfAgainst Mr. Cargill.THETORWOOD-EXCOMMUNICATION,xSeptember, 16S0.A FTER Sermon, noon Etiek. xxi. 25 27.4kmt ■pittfane tuiekfd Prince of Isra'i,whose day in come Ac.bavins' madea short and pertinent discourse on the nature,•ubjects, causes and ends of rxcommunieation, and de¬clared his motives leading him to it, not to be any privatespirit of pas don, but conscience of duty, and zeal for God;Mr. Cargill pronounced the Sentence as follows.We have spoken of Excommunication ; of the•object? and ends thereof: VVe shall now proceed to theaction, being constrained by the conscience of our duty,and zeal for God to excommunicate some of these whohave been the committers of so great crimes, and author*•f ti e gnat n i-chiefs at Britain and Ireland, but espe¬cially tiiese ut Scotland : And in doing of tois, we shallkeep the names by which they m*. orianarily caitet^that they may be the better known.1 being a minister of Jesus Christ, and having autb*»rity and power from him Do, in hi* Name, and bv nisSpirit, excommunicate Charles the $■. cord. King, &c.and that upon tne accsunt of these wickednesses.1 t. For bis high nmckir g of God, in that after he had•cknowU .:ged his own sms. his hnher's sins, uts inodier'aidolatry, and had solemnly engaged against them, in« declaration at Dunfermline, the Itiih. «f August, 165(1,he46be hath, notwithstanding of all this, gone on ntnre avow-edlv in these sins, than-all tint went befoie hi n.2 dv F.ir his gre it perjury, after he had twice, at least,sole.nnly subscribed that Covenant, did so presimptu-oii>ly renounce, disown, and comannd it to be burnedby the hand of the hangman.3diy, Besause he has rescinded all laws for establish¬ing of that religion and reformation engaged to in thatCovenant, and enacted laws for establishing its contrary;an i is still working for the introducing of Popery int*thir lands.4tbly, For commanding of armies to destroy theLord’s people who were standing in their own jnst de¬fence, and for their privileges and rights, against tyran-nies, oppressions, and injuries of men ; and for the bloodhe hath shed in fields, on scaffolds, and on the seas, ofthe people of God, upon account of religion and righte¬ousness, (they being most willing in all other things, ton n ter him obedience, if he had reigned and ruled themaccording to his Covenani and Oath), more than allthe kings that have been before him in Scotland.5thly, That he hath been still an enemy to, and apersecutor ol true Prolestauts, and a favburer anu helper•f the Papists, both at home end abroad; and hathhindered, to the utmost ot his power, tne due execution•f just.laws against them.6thiy, For his relaxing of the kingdom, by his frequentgrant of remissions and pardons for murderers, (which isin the p'jwer of no king to go, bemg expressly contraryto the law of God) which was the ready way to emboldennica in committing of murders, to tiie dtfiiwig of the landwith blood. . ,Lastly, To pass by all other things his great anddreadful uncleai n s» of adultery and incest, hisdrunken-*es-, Ins dissembling with God and man ; and performingIns promises where his engagements were sinful, &c.Next. By the same authority, and in the same name,I excommunicate, Cast out ot the true Church, and deliver«p to Satan James Duke of fork, &c and that for hisidolatry, (tor 1 snail net speak of any other sms butJ what*1^Tiat have been perp? tntc-d by bim in ^cntland) an^ frtrsetting up idolatry in Scotland, to <<efiie the Lord’s land;and his enticing and encouraging others to do »o &'■.Next In the same name and by the sa ne authorhy,I excommunicate, and cast out of the true Church anddeliver up to Satan. James Duke of Monmouth, &c. torcoming into Scotland, upon his father’s unjust command,and leading armies against the Lord’s people, who wereconstrained to rise being killed in, and for the rightworshipping of the true (rod; and for his refudag thatmorning at ii nhwel-bri dge a cess itiou >f mn^. for bearingand redressing their injuties, wi ongs aud-oppressionit, <ic.Next, I do, by virtue of the same authority, and inthe same name, excommunicate, cast out of the trueChurch, and deliver up to S ttnn John Duke of Lau.ier-dale &o. for his dreadful hia-phe ny. espet ia tv tli U wordto the Pre ate «'f St. Andrews. »S;f thou at my light hand,until I male thine enemies tiuj footstool. H s atheisticaldrolling on the Scriptures of God scoHrig at religion,and religious persons; his apo-tiev from the Cuven ntand work of reform ition, and his persecuting thereof,after he itad been a professor pleader, and press.t thereof.For his perjury in the badness of Mr. J tines Mitchel woobeing in Council, gave public futh that lie should be in¬demnified and that to life and limb, if he .should confesshis attempt upon the Prelate; and notwithstanding of-this,before the Justiciary Court, did give oath, that there was■o such A.ct in Council; For his adulteries and unclean¬ness: for his counselling and assisting the King ip,,*!!his tyrannies, overturning an i plotting against the truereligion: Fur his gaining on the Lords day. And,Lastly, for his usual and ordinary cursing.Next, I do by virtu's of the same authority and inthe same name, cast out of the true Church, and deliverup to S tlan J ihn, Duke of 11 >thes, &c. fur his perjuryIn the matter of James Mitchel; and for his adulteriesand uncleanness; for allotting the Lord’s day for hisdrunkenness: For his professing and avowing nis readi¬ness and willingness to set up Popery in this land at theKing’s4SJtfa*** eemrtwnd ? Anti for the heathenish. barWov^an i unheirti of cruelty (whereof he was the chief author,contriver and comm mder, notwithstanding that he ha4otherwise engaged lately) to that worthy gentleman,D vid Haekstoun of Rathilfet. And, lastly, for his•rdinary cursing, swearing, and drunkenness.Next I do. by virtue of the same authority, and inthe same name, excommunicate cast out of the trueChurch, and deliver up to Saian. Sir George M Kenzie,the King’s Advocate; for his apostacy. in turning intoa profligateness of conversation after he had begun aptofe.'shin of holiness: For Ids constant pleading againstand persecuting to death the people of Goo. and alledg-ing and laying to their charge things v. hieh in his con¬science he knew to be against the word of God, truth,reason, and the ancient laws of this kingdom: And hispleading for sorcerers, murderers and other criminals,that before God and by the laws of the land, ought todie : For his ungodly, erroneous fantastic, and blasphem¬ous tenets, printed to the world, in his pamphlets andpasquils.And, Lastly, I do, by virtue of the same authorityand in the same n*me, excommunicate, cast out of thetrue Church, and deliver up to Satan Thomas Dtlziel ofBinns, &c. for his leading armies, anel commanding thekilling, robbing, pillaging, ami oppressing of the Loid’speople, and free subjects of this kingdom : And ior exe¬cuting of lawless tyrannies, and lustful laws: For hiscommanding to shoot at a post one I'inlaj at Ncwmilns,without any form of law, civil or military, he not beingguilty of any thing that they themselves counted a crime :For his lewd and impious life, led in adultery and un¬cleanness from his youth, w ith a contempt of marriage,which is the ordinance of God : Far all his other atheisti¬cal and irreligious conversation. And, lastly. For hisunjust usurping and retaining of the estate of that worthygentleman. William Muir of Cafdwel; and his other in¬jurious deeds, in the exercise of his power.FINIS.