OFCHARLES JONES,THE FOOTMAH.SHEWING HOW HE RAISED HIMSELF FROM THE HUMBLESTATION OF A FOOT-BOY, TO A PLACE OF GREATEMINENCE AND TRUST, BY HIS STRICTHONESTY AND INTEGRITY.h][iv. X E D h 0 K XIIE BOOKWErrEK 8‘ %&L I ■•.-ervaoo/A.:1/ ,V Ji-S'4.'<HOKEaXi V.:D VliEamiX’E7llI4E>.f;F. y/.D XKn8'.‘ B/. HI8 8.1BICXHiyilO'/t ot v EOOX BOi' XO V trVCE OK < ffEYXxe i;xyiurEBHKAixu HOit jib ifyjK»:aJ:rL i-Tfon xiie k.-WBI'E iIHE tooisavsn^on / [f rEW ‘lOylE^ IOKIHE III8XOKAtiii''jK’aSj«sHISTORYIIIzbaiCHAELES JONES.My father, George Jones, commonly called BlackGeorge, on account of his swarthy complexion, wasone of the most industrious men in the whole vil¬lage. His cdttage, which was his own, and partlybuilt by his own hands, stands on the common,about a stone’s throw from the road, near the greatOak tree, in the parish of King’s Charleton inSomersetshire. The Lord of tlio Manor havinggranted him leave to inclose a bit of the commonfor a garden, my father had got a thriving youngorchard and a long strip of potatoes, besides hiscottage, all the produce of his own industry. Itused to be a favourable saying with him, that noman to whom God had given two hands, had everneed to want. ‘For my part, says he, I never knewwhat want was. When I am sick, the club supportsme, and when I am well, I warrant 1T1 supportmyself. My mother, besides being equally indus¬trious, was much more religious, and thereforemuch happier. She was as good and sweet tempereda woman as any in the world; for constancy at herduty, friendship, civility to her neighbours, clean¬liness in her own person, her house and her children,she had not her fellow. But the most remarkablething in her (I am afraid a very uncommon thing)was her steady and uninterrupted practice of familyprayer. It must have been a hard day’s work in-4deed, that hindered her from her prayers. At sixin the morning and eight in the evening, as regu¬larly as ever the hour came, she always knelt downwith her children round her, four of us, and readwith great solemnity and devotion a short formgiven her by the clergyman, which concluded withthe Lord’s prayer, in which we all joined. Andshe used to say after she had finished. ‘Now I cango to bed or to work, in peace ; for now we mayhope God will protect us.’ I am sorry to say myfather seldom joined with us. He used to pretendhe was busy or tired ; and yet it would not havedetained him long neither, for we were never morethan six minutes about it, and surely twelve min¬utes a day (six in the morning and six in the even¬ing) is no great time to give to God. One thinghas often struck me, that if any thing went wrongand ruffled my dear mother’s temper, or made hex-uneasy, the prayer seemed to set it all to rights.When she had been to prayers, all her grief seemedto be fled away. And indeed I observed the samething with respect to my father; if he ever did joinwith us, it always seemed somehow to compose andsweeten his mind, and make him a great dealkinder to my mother and us.As my father and mother were very industriousthemselves, they were very desirous to make theirchildren so ; every child was employed as soon ashe was able, in something or other. At about thir¬teen years of age my employment had been forsome time to weed in the parson’s garden, andrun errands for him. At fourteen he took me intohis house, and not a little proud was I at obtainingthe title of his ‘ little footman.’ The morning Ileft my father’s cottage, my dear mother, who wasas kind as she was good, appeared to be very much5affected ; she said she could not commit mo to thei wide world, without first committing me to Godwho governed it; and then she knelt down with me: by her side, and prayed ‘ Gracious Lord, he pleasedto have mercy on my dear boy, To thy care I com-11 mend him. Guard him, I beseech thee, in theimany temptations which he is now beginning toencounter. May he with solid piety and honestdiligence do his duty in that state of life in whichit hath pleased thee to place him.’—She then gaveme her blessing, put a Testament into my pocket,:|hid me fear God, and always act for my master asI would do for myself.In my new situation there were to he sure somefew things disagreeable. My mistress was peevishand fretful; the cook violent and passionate. Butwhat service is there, or indeed, what situation inlife, howsoever much above servitude, in whichthere is not something unpleasant ? Every state hasits trials ; servants have theirs : but if they cannotlearn to put up with some little inconveniencies,they may change their places every year of theirlives, and never be satisfied after all. This is alesson I have learnt by long experience.Though by God’s blessing I had received a morereligous education than most children, it yet soonappeared that I had many faults, which it wasnecessary for mo to be corrected of before I couldii become a good servant. At first, when I was sent' upon an errand, I was much given to loitering.—I was then too young to consider that by loiteringin errands I was wasting what was not my own,ibut my master’s time. Besides this fault, as every'thing which I saw and heard in my master’s housewas such as I had never seen or heard before, Iwas too apt to talk of it to my old play-fellows, or6at the village shop. But as soon as ever I becamea little older, I began to reflect that this was verywrong. One Sunday evening, when I had leaveto go home to see my parents, I was beginning totell my mother how there had been a great uproarat the parsonage the day before, about Hero sheput her hand upon my lips, and said, 1 Charles, nota word more of what has passed at the parsonage.Whatsoever happens in your master’s house is neverto be spoken of out of your master’s doors. A .tale-bearing servant is always an unfaithful ser¬vant ; he betrays the trust which his master putsin him.”My mother’s vehemence surprised me a little, ■but it made so much impression upon me, that Iwas pretty well broken of the fault from that verytime. Into how many scrapes has this talkativetemper brought many servants of my acquaintance, .There was poor Nic Jarret,' the Squire’s underfootman, that lost his place, a new. suit of blackbroad cloth, and a legacy of five pounds, which hewould soon have had by reason of his mistress’sdeath, only for saying at a neighbour’s house thatbis mistress sometimes fell asleep while the Squirewas reading to the family on a Sunday night.Nic and I were at one time rather too intimate ;I remember one day, when I was about sixteen,having attended my master to the Squire’s house,Nic prevailed on me after dinner to play with himat pitch and toss. I was worth at that time' fiveshillings and two-pence, more money than I hadever possessed before in my life. ’ lu about twohours Nic reduced me to my last shilling, Butthough it was a heavy stroke at tho time, yet itproved in the end a happy event, for by my mother’spersuasions I resolyed thence forward never to:j game again as long as I liver], which resolution, by.Si God’s grace, I have hitherto happily kept. I wisiir from my heart that all other servants would resolvei! the same. The practice of card-playing, so com-i mou among servants in large families, is the worst| custom they can possibly fall into. My poor bro-i ther Tom suffered enough for it. One day havingt received in the morning a quarter’s -wages, he losti the whole of it before night at All Pours ; andI What was the consequence? Why, from that verytime, he took to those practices of cheating hismaster which ended in his ruin.How much better would it bo for all servants,if instead of wasting their leisure in card-playing,they would amuse themselves in reading someGodly book, or improve themselves in writing, orcyphering. It was by this means, for I was nevertaught to write, that I qualified myself for theplace of Hail iff, which I now fill.I remember Nic used to say, * Whilst my masterplays cards in the parlour, why shouldstthou be sosqueamish as not to play in the kitchen ?’ But Nicdid not consider that his master being rich, andplaying for small sums, his losses laid him under notemptation of dishonesty in order to repay them ;besides the Squire could read and write at anytime, whereas this was our only leisure time, andif we did not improve ourselves then, we nevercould, 4 what might he comparatively innocent inhim,' might be ruinous to us. And even if myt master he a professed Rambler, that is no reason Ila should ho so too. A servant is to do what is right,alet his master do what he will. If a master swearsand gets drunk, and talks at table with indecency,| or against God and religion, to God he must ac-'« count for it, and a sorry account, it will be, I doubt;8but his example will not excuse our crimes, though itwill aggravate his. We must take care of our ownsouls, whether our masters take care of theirs or not.- But to return to my history ; I am ashamed tosay that I was guilty more than once in the earlierpart of my servitude of the shocking and detestablecrime of lying, in order to excuse or screen myfaults.—Happily I was cured of it in the followingmanner : Having been one day ordered to carry abottle of wine to a sick man, one of my master’sparishioners, I accidentally broke the bottle, andof course lost the wine. What was to be done ?Should I confess my misfortune, and acknowledgemy carelessness, or conceal it by a lie ? After somedeliberation I resolved upon the lie. I thereforehad made up my story, ‘ how the poor man senthis duty to my master, and thanked him a thousandtimes, and that he was a little better, and that hiswife said she thought this wine would save his life.’Being thus prepared, as I was returning home, Imet a pedlar, of whom I bought for a penny alittle book, containing a story of a woman atDevizes, who was struck dead on the spot for.telling a lie. To be sure it was Heaven sent thepedlar to me, to save me from the sin I was goingto commit. ‘ If this woman was struck dead for alie, .(said I to myself,) why may not IV I there¬fore went directly home, and made a confession ofmy negligence and misfortune ; and it was well forme I did, for the sick man, whose duty and thanksI had wickedly intended to carry to my master, wasdead, as I understood afterwards, three hours beforethe bottle was broken. From this time, therefore,I began to see, what I am now fully convinced of,that besides the sinfulness of lying, it is alwaysmore for the interest and lasting comforts of ser-9vants to confess the truth at once, than to conceala fault by falsehood. When a servant has told alie, he is always in danger of its being found out,and sooner or later it generally is found out, andthen his character is ruined. Whereas, if he con¬fesses the truth at once, he probably escapes withoutany anger at all, or at worst, it is soon over, andthe fault itself is forgotten.Having now lived seven years at the parsonage,and being twenty-one years of age, my mastercalled me one day into his study, where he spent agood deal of his time, and said to me, ‘ Charles,you have lived with me a considerable time, and iti has been always with much pleasure that I haveremarked the decency, sobriety, and diligence ofyour conduct. Those few faults which you have,further experience, and more years will, I doubtnot, cure. You are now qualified for a better placethan mine, and are entitled to higher wages thanit is in my power to give. I have therefore recom-i mended you to a friend of mine in London, forwhich place you are to set out, if you approve it,i in a month. But I should think it a crime toi dismiss you to a situation so full of temptations,r without giving you some little advice. Listen,i therefore, my dear Charles, to what I shall say, asI mean it only for your good. In the first place,! fear God; and then you will never have an occasioni to be afraid of man. Act always in his presence.Never enter or quit your bed without prayer. Do1 always for your master, as you would your master,if you were to change places, should do for you.Endeavour to get a pious friend, but avoid, as youwould the plague, all wicked company. Be cautiousi of too great familiarity with your female fellow-: servants ; an unlawful intercourse of this kind will10mia you, body and soul. Flee from an alehouseas you would from the devil; if you once get intoit* you will never get out of it. Keep your money,and your money will keep you. Here, Charles, isa Bible for you ; the more you read it, the moreyou will love it, the ^fitter you will be, and thehappier. I have written some directions for youin the first page of it, God bless you ; and whenmy moo, which is now drawing to its end, shallfinish, may we meet in heaven.’ My master’s jkindness so affected me, that I could not answerhim for tears. I was indeed very glad of going tosee so fine a place as London, though at the sametime I could not leave a house where I had beentreated more like a child than a servant, withoutgreat regret. I shall not attempt to describe myparting with my mother. Ko< description, I amsure, could do justice to the solemn and affectionatemanner in which she exhorted me to be pious andjust, and recommended me to God in prayer. Herlast words I shall never forget—‘ I know, my dearson, said she, that you love me tenderly, and thatyou would not give me unnecessary pain on any ,account. Remember then, that whenever you do .any wrong thing, you are planting a dagger in ‘your mother’s heart,’ With these words, her eyeshritn fulllof tears, and her hands lifted up in silent !prayer to God, she turned away from me, andwent info the cottage.And now, reader, you find me in the great anddangerous city of London, in the service of a verywealthy mastery who kept twelve servants besidesmyself. If country people knew London as wellas I do, how cautious would they be for exchangingtheir safe and peaceful situations in the countryfor the perils and temptations of. a great city. Hownmany young follows have ,1 known, who livedhonestly and happily in their native place, comeup to London in the hope of higher wages, andthere forfeit their- integrity, their peace of mind,their health, their character, and souls. Workmenin particular are very foil'd, of getting iuto largecities, because they think their labour will turn tobetter account there than in their own villages.They do not consider that in a city, they must giveas much for a filthy room, in a filthy house, in¬habited by half a dozen families, situated in aclose, smoky, dirty street, as in the country wouldpay the rent of a cottage and a garden. They donot consider the dearness of provisions in a city,the temptations, they are under, from bad women,wicked company, and the great number of alehouses.In short, lam fully persuaded that a labourer ii<tbe country, on a sbilling a day, is better off thanone in a city on two shillings.When I came to my place, I found every thingfor tke first three or four days very smooth andvery pleasant; plenty of provisions, plenty of drink,little work, apd a very merry servants’ hall. Butsoon the face of things, with respect to me, changedvery much, and I underwent a severer temptationthan I ever experienced before or since in thewhole course of my life. I had always hithertobeen taught to. consider that sobriety, diligence,and piety, were virtuea I therefore never swore,I never got drunk, I never gamed, I went tochurch as often as I could, I said my prayers nightand morning, and on Sunday at least, if not onother days, I read a little in my good old master’sBible. But hero I soon found that this was theworst vice I could be guilty of. As soon as theyfouud me out, it seemed to be a trial of skill12amongst them who should plague me most. Onecalled me a Parson; another, a Methodist; athird, a conceited Prig; a fourth, a canting Hypo¬crite. If I went into any other gentleman’s kitchenit was all the same ; iny character flew before me,and many were the jests and laughs raised both athome and abroad at my expence. In short, duringthree months, my life was a constant anxiety andtorment; so that at last I was almost tempted,God forgive me for the thought, to do as they did,and forfeit my everlasting soul in order to avoidthe present uneasiness.. But while things were inthis state, I felt myself greatly and unexpectedlyrelieved one Sunday morning by a Sermon whichI happened to hear from our parish minister, onthe following text: ‘ Blessed are ye when menshall revile you and persecute you, and shall sayall manner of evil of you falsely for my sake, forgreat is your reward in heaven.’ The excellentdiscourse which this pious man delivered on thesewords was so exactly suited to my circumstancesand feelings, that it sotuned as if it had beenaddressed solely to me ; and it pleased God so toapply what had been said to my heart and under¬standing, that 1 not only determined to bear infuture the sneers and scoffs of my fellow-servantswith patience and fortitude, but even those verysneers which I formerly considered as my greatestcalamity, were now no longer grievous. Fromthis time, therefore, my uneasiness was pretty wellat an end. And I earnestly recommend it to allother servants, who have been so happy as to ac¬quire sober and virtuous habits, not to suffer them¬selves to be laughed out of their sobriety and virtueby the jests and ridicule of their fellow-servants.They may depend upon it that their cause is a good13i|!one, and though they suffer for it at first, theywill finally triumph. In a short time all my per¬secution was at an end. ‘ To he sure (said thecoachman one day to the cook) Charles is a littletoo religious, but, upon my word, I don’t think heis the worse of it. Mayhap it would he better forus we were more like him. I don’t see but thathe is as humble, friendly, and worthy a fellow asany amongst us. For my part, I shall laugh athim no longer.’ This speech, which I happenedaccidentally to overhear, gave me great pleasure,and I soon found by the agreeable change in myfellow-servants’ conduct towards me, that thecoachman had expressed the opinion of the wholehall. It is true I did every thing to obtain theirgood will that lay in my power. I was as civiland obliging to every one among them as I possiblycould. Was any thing to be done ? if nobody elsewould do it, I never stopped to consider whether itbelonged to my place or not, but did it out of hand.If any body took it into his head to fall out withme, I generally disarmed him of his wrath by say¬ing nothing. If any little quarrels, or misfortunes,or misconduct, happened in the hall, I alwaysendeavoured to hush it up, and never carried anytales to my master, unless when I saw any bodywronging him, and then I thought it my duty, orunless the thing was very bad indeed. In short,by pursuing always this line of conduct, I foundmy situation very comfortable and agreeable. Mymaster treated me with great confidence and kind¬ness ; my fellow-servants with great friendlinessand respect.In about two years time, the footman that usedto go to market being turned away for drunken¬ness, which vice soon proved his ruin, my masterI-14told me, that as he believed 1 was an honest and» careful young man, aud perceiving that I couldwrit© and keep an account, he should employ mein marketing. To market, therefore, I wentevery day, and as I had now a good deal of mymaster’s money always in my hands, I prayedheartily to God that he would be pleased to pre¬serve mo under the temptations to which thisexposed mo. My first exploit in this way was thepurchase of ton shillings worth of fruit at a fruit¬erer’s. When I had finished my bargain, and wascoming out of the shop, the fruiterer slipt a shillinginto my hand. As 1 had never, to the best of myrecollection, seen him before, I was somewhatsurprised at his generosity ; but fortunately badthe presence of mind to ask him whether ho hadcharged his fruit the higher on account of thispresent to me. ‘ Why, young man, said he, thisis an honest question, and I will give you. anhonest answer’. The fact is, that as gentlemen ofyour cloth expect some compliment from thetradesmen that they deal with, we are obliged inour own defence to charge our articles the higheron that account’ ‘ Aud so, said I, the money you Igive us, comes finally from the pockets of our jmasters?’ ‘To be sure it does.’ ‘Why then, Jsaid I, I will take yimr shilling, but shall chargemy master only nine shillings. ’ And this methodI constantly pursued in the like case ever after;for 1 think the above-mentioned practice of foot¬men, which, however, I hope is not very commonwith them, is just the same in conscience as if theyshould rob their master’s bureau.One Monday morning, having settled my accountfor the last week with my master, I found that hohad made a mistake against himself of twenty!, shillings. As soon as I discovered it, I said toi myself, here now is an opportunity for gettingtwenty shillings without any risk of detection ; hut|| God forbid that I should do it, as it would ruin myi peace of mind, and destroy my -soul. I thoreforei pointed out the error to my master the first oppor-i tuuity.—‘Charles,’ said he, ‘you are right, the■ mistake is obvious, I acknowledge 1 made it pur-11 posely to try your honesty. You will find that; this affair will turn out, before long, to your ad-ii vantage. ’ Now, though I do not think it quite| fair of masters to lay this kind of trap for theirI! servants’ integrity, yet as I know by experienceHi they sometimes do it, we must be doubly on yurij guard. Indeed, dishonesty is never safe, if alwaysi will out somehow or other. I have seen surprisingi instances of it, when it seemed to have been com¬mitted with such cunning as to be impossible to l>e6 detected.,| One day as I was going to market, J met Sir> Robert S-—’s butler, who told me, that havingt long observed ray sobriety and diligence, he washappy to have it now in his power to offer me asi place in his master’s family,, where my wagest would be raised two guineas a year. I thankedi him, and told him ho should have his answer nexti evening. In tho meantime I called upon a piousi and worthy friend, whom I consulted in all difii-!<l unities, and asked his opinion. After matureb deliberation, he said, ‘ Charles, don’t go. WhenM once you have got into a good place, stick to it likea leech. The rolling stone gets no moss. The( more years you continue in one service, the more) you are respected by your master and all the world.A good family considers an old servant as one ofthemselves, and can no more see hi raw ant thau a1Gnear relation. Whereas, servants that are con¬tinually roving about from place to place, have nofi'iend in distress, and seldom get a provision forold age.’ Happy it was for me that I followed thisgood advice. If I had not, I should probably havebeen nothing more than a poor footman all my life.But before I bring my own story to an end, Imust beg my reader’s patience to listen to the sadfate of my poor brother Tom. Alas! poor Tom,he was a gf’eat favourite in our kitchen, becausehe sung the best song, told the merriest tale, andpaid his card-money the most freely of any gentle¬man footman about town. And then he swore somuch like a gentleman, and was so complaisantto the ladies, and pushed about the strong beer somerrily, that ho was, said our servants, the mostagreeable company in the world. And yet all theseentertaining qualities did not preserve my poorbrother from the most dreadful state of distress andruin. One morning he came to me about teno’clock with a very woeful countenance, which wasa thing very unusual for him, and told me, that hehad just been turned away from his place withouta character, that he had no money, many debts,no real friends, and what was worse than all, thathe was labouring under disease.Tom grew worse every day, and was at lengthgiven over. In the morning of that day, while Iwas sitting at his bedside, who should come in butmy dear mother. She had walked 130 miles,except now and then a lift in the waggon, to attendupon her undeserving son. When she saw him,pale and emaciated, and his face half consumed bydisease, it so shocked her, that she fainted away.As soon as she recovered, and was a little relievedby a plentiful flood of tears, she said, ‘ My dear17Tom, I am come to take care of thee, and makethee better, if I can.’ ‘ Alas! mother, (answeredhe, putting his clay-cold hand into hers,) it is alltoo late. I have but a few hours to live. It is byneglecting your advice that I am brought to this.Gaming and drink, bad company and bad womenhave been my ruin! 0 what will become of mysoul! if I could but live my life over again.—Herehe was seized with a sudden fit, and though helived some hours, he never spoke after; and diedthat evening in my mother’s arms.After recounting the sorrowful history of myi unhappy brother, I must now hasten to concludeit my own. About a twelvemonth after the offer ofa place in Sir Robert S ’s family, my master,in consideration, as he said, of my faithful services,made me his butler. He was indeed so kind andfriendly to me on all occasions, that I found itnecessary to bo extremely cautious lest I shouldi'j; grow proud, or saucy, or familiar, which some ser-i vants, when they have lived long in a place, andi: find themselves in favour, are apt to do. After| enjoying this post about six years, our family being| now removed into the country, I made acquaintance? with a farmer’s daughter living near the greatl house, whom, on account of her religious and in¬dustrious principles, and her amiable and cheerfulill temper, I wished to make my wife. She was noflaunter in fine clothes, none of your dancing, flir¬ting, forward lasses, that run about to christenings,and revels, and hopes, that will ruin a man beforehe knows where he is ; but a pious, sober, stay-at-> home, industrious young woman; else I am surelany body might have had her for me. As I hadmover been guilty of any unnecessary expence, formbody will call that unnecessary which I sent18yearly to my pareute, my payings, tlie interestbeing added yearly to the principal in the hands ofmy liuuster, amounted to two hundred pounds.And as Fanny's father promised to give her anotherhundred, I thought wc might with this take a smallharm, and maintain ourselves comfortably anddecently.—I therefore communicated the affair tomy master ‘ Charles,’ said he, ‘though I am lothto part with so good a servant, yet I chink it anact of gratitude due to you for your long and faith¬ful services, to consent readily to any thing whichmay be for your welfare. But I do not think itnecessary for us to part at all. I am at present inwant of a bailiff. You may, if you approve it,undertake that office, and still retain your presentwages. Your father-iu-law, who is an experiencedfarmer, will instruct and assist you in the duties ofit. I will, besides, let you a small farm en an ad¬vantageous lease, which you may make the most offor yourself. ’To this kind and generous offer I freely assented.And Fanny and myself have now lived together sixyears in the farm-house near- the park gate, happyand prosperous. My father being dead, and mybrother and sister settled, my mother, who is nowvery old, lives with me ; and by her example andexhortation I find a souse of religion sink deeperinto my soul every day, and indeed I am very wellconvinced by long experience, that there is nothingin this world can make us truly happy but that.I address this little book, which I wrote by littleand little in the long evenings of the last hardwinter, to all footmen. I hope they will not beangry with my well meant endeavours, but takekindly what is intended only for their good.19PRIDE/ -Ciuesus, king of Lydia, haying expressed an extra¬ordinary inclination to see Solon, that philosopherrepaired to Sardis to pay him a visit. The firsttime he vns presented, the king received himseated on his throne, and drfessed on purpose in hismost sumptuous robes ■, but Solon appeared notthe least astonished at the sight of such a glare of; magnificence.My friend,’ said Croesus to him, ‘Fame hasevery where reported thy wisdom. I know youhave seen many countries, but have you ever seena person dressed so magnificently as I am ?’ ‘ Yes,’replied Solon, ‘ the pheasants and peacocks aredressed more magnificently, because their brilliantapparel is the gift of nature, without their takingany thought or pains to adorn themselves.’Such ah unexpected answer very much surprisedCroesus, who ordered his officers to open all histreasures, and shew them to Solon, as also his rich; furniture, and whatever was magnificent in his■ palace. He then sent for him a second time, andasked him if he had ever seen a man more happy; than he was. ‘ Yes,’ replied Solon, ‘ and that manwas Tcllus, a citizen of Athens, who lived with anu unblemished character in a well regulated republic.Ij He left two children much respected, with ai moderate fortune for their subsistence, and at lasti had the happiness to die sword in hand, after hav-n ihg obtained a victory for bis country. The< Athenians have erected a monument to his memory0 on the spot where he fell, and have otherwise paidhim great honours.’Croesus was no less astonished at this than atd the first answer, and began to think Solon was not%20perfectly right in his senses. ‘ Well,’ continuedCroesus, ‘ who is the next happy man to Tellus ?’‘ There were formerly,’ replied Solon, two brothers,the one named Cleobis, and the other Biton. Theywere so robust, that they always obtained the prizein every sort of combat, and perfectly loved eachother. One feast day, when the priestess of Juno,their mother, for whom they had the most tenderaffection, was to go to the temple to sacrifice, theoxen that were to draw her thither did not comein time, Cleobis and Biton hereupon fastenedthemselves to her carriage, and in that mannerdrew her to the temple. All the matrons in rap¬tures congratulated their mother on having broughttwo sucli sons into the world. Their mother,penetrated with emotions of the strongest joy andgratitude, fervently prayed the goddess, that shewould bestow on her son5 the best gift she had toconfer on mortals. Her prayers were heard ; for,after the sacrifice, the two sous fell asleep in thetemple, and never afterwards awoke. Thus theyfinished their lives by a tranquil and peacefuldeath.’Croesus could no longer conceal his rage, ‘ Whatthen,’ said he, ‘do you not even place me amongthe number of happy people ‘ O king of theLydians,’ replied Solon, ‘you possess great riches,and are master of a great multitude of people; hutlife is liable to so many changes, that we cannotpresume to decide on the felicity of any man, untilhe has finished his mortal career.’21THE COUNTRY CLERGYMAN.fear yonder copse, where once the garden smil’d,Lnd still where many a garden flower grows wild ;I'here, where a few tom shrubs the place disclose,’he village preacher’s modest mansion rose.iL man he was, to all the country dear,vnd passing rich with forty pounds a year;lemote from towns he ran his godly race,for e’er had chang'd nor wish’d to change his place,i clnpractis’d he to fawn, or seek for power,!y doctrines fashion’d to the varying hour ;{ifor other aims his heart had learn’d to prize,'/lore skill’d to raise the wretched than to risei ilis house was known to all the vagrant train!;le chid their wand’rings, but reliev’d their pain ;rhe long remembered beggar was his guest,ifYhose beard descending, swept his aged breast;iii'he ruined spendthrift, now no longer proud,Mlllaim’d kindred there, and had his claim allow’d;ufhe broken soldier, kindly bid to stay,ttBat by his fire, and talk’d the night away ;lYept o’er his wounds, or tales of sorrow done,"‘Shoulder’d his crutch, and show’d how fields werewon.oPleas’d with his guests, the good man learn’d toglow,sAnd quite forgot their vices in their woe :ujarcless their merits or their faults to scan,lis pity gave ere charity began.Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride,And even his failings loan’d to Virtue’s side ;i Jut in his duty prompt at every call.He watch’d, and wept, he pray’d, and felt for all.And, as a bird each fond endearment tries.To tempt its new fledg’d offspring to the skies;22He tried each art, reprov’d each dull d 'ay,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed where parting life was laid.And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay’d,The reverend champion stood. At his control.Despair and anguish: fled the struggling soul 5Comfort came, down the trembling wretch to raise,And his last faultoriug accents whisper’d praise.At church, with meek and unaftected grace.His Iboks adorn’d tho venerable place ;Truth from his lips prevail’d with double sway,And fools, who came to scotf, remain’d to pray.The service past, around the pious man,With ready ;:eal each honest rustic ran ;Even children follow’d with endearing wile,And pluck’d his gown to share the good man’s .smile. ■ ■ ■ :His ready smile a parent’s warmth eipresi,Their welfare pleas’d him, and their cares distrest;To them his heart, his love, hie griefs were given.But all his serious thoughts had rest in Heaven.As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, • -Swells from the vale, and midway leaves thestorhs, • • - ‘'iin , ! h’-iob'r >di4Tho’ round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, jEternal sunshine settles on its head.: now r-ji —r~, • 1 ■ .• .ABic'Jack joyce.If tho reader will look at the map of Galway, landcast his eye to-the tipper part of “ the Kingdom ofConnemara”—a country so wild and desolate, thatit rs said When St. Patrick ascended the mountainknown as Croagh Patrick, and a famous place ofpilgrimage for devotees from all parts of Ireland,ctiirnl to cnley it—lie will.ihifl-tiiq,,upper pai;t pfport.ieu ,i)f Ivelaml, etykid still ia tke maps.“ Joyce Country/’ . . aou«lti>as{BThis name it took from one of the oldest Irish:families—the Joyce’s—of which “ Big Jack” is(the modern head. His ancestors “were grateHoiks intirely!” and played a conspicuous part inold times among the “wild Irish chiefs," as they .were rather uncivilly termed ; the whole of thiqlarge tract pf country was their kingdom, wherethey held unlimited sway among the wild hills that(enclosed them, and. rendered Cpnnpmara an un¬known region to nearly all hut its inhabitants, andthe very yltiwi thulfi pf civilisatipu. But theJoyces Swindled down from their high estate inthe progress of centuries ; and now, although theygive their name to a fair share of land, they inreality own hut little of it; although it is under¬stood that their veritable descendant, “ Big Jack,”looks upon himself as the true owner, and as it issaid that no man is, poor if no,t so in his own cpn- .ceit, it is so far'ftidunate that Jack is Jfdt in thisway conceited. Ho lives in a cabin of his own, inthe midst pf the teii'itPi'Y"of his forofriftihrs—it issituated in the wildest part of Connemara/at theentrance of flic Yallot leading from Leenarte, situ-lied at the head of a magnificent ami of the sett,’i-tyled the Killer/'', to Manm, on the border ofiofigh Corrib, amidst moirnttrin’S that for savage.fahdeur arc unrivalled1. Here he receives visitors;nd, Us lie is the last1 descendant of a race whoere great men in all senses of the word, anatomicalnd Otherwise, he is frequently visited, and is inact rather proud of the interest taken in him.When Inglis made hue tour in Ireland, he paid24Jack a visit as the chief living lion of Connemara,and was received with hearty goodnature ; and hetells us “ room was found on the table for a double¬sized flagon of whiskey, and water appeared to bea beverage not much in repute.” But this wassome years ago, when Jack was a jolly devil-may-care* fellow ; but having kept the inn at Leenane,and perhaps attending more to “the smallest tastein life of whiskey” rather than to the profit andloss of the concern, “ them murthering thaives,”as he styles the lawyers, occasioned him to vacatethe premises, and settle down as a small farmer.When Barrow visited him in 1835, he foundJack a Temperance man, and he could only withdifficulty persuade him to take a single glass towelcome his arrival.In person, Jack does no discredit to his “ big”family, to be sure he is not quite so large asu That monstrous giant Fin-mac-Heuyle,Whose carcase, buried in the meadows.Took up nine acres of potatoesbut he is a very broad, strong fellow, some six feetodd in height, and of greater breadth in proportionthan is generally seen ; and he has “a fine boy,” (of some five-and-twenty years of age, who is stilltaller than himself, so that the family credit is *well kept up. Jack, in make, and sometimes inlook, reminds one of John Reeve on a larger scale ;he is always goodnatured and friendly, and receivesthe visit of strangers beneath his humble roof withthe natural courtesy of “a rale ould Irish gentle-.man.” Many of all grades visit Jack, who is aswell known in Connemara as its lakes and moun¬tains.THE END.