THE AUTOBIOGKAPHYWILLIAM LOYE, P. C.,A NATIVE OF PAISLEY.BETTER KNOWN AIWilf 11THE GREATEST TRAVELLER ALIVE !HAVING AlSijEJBY WALKED MOKE THAN= SIX TIMES ROUND THE EARTH !!CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF HIS BIRTH, FARENTAOF,AND EDUCATION, TRAVELS TO REMARKABLE PLACES, LOVEADVENTURES, OPINIONS ON THINGS IN GENERAL, WITHPHILOSOPHICAL REMARKS ON PARTICULAR SUBJECTS.PAISLEY:PRINTED BY G. CALDWELL 2, NEW STREET,1857.DEDICATION.This Work or Labour of Love is, by permis¬sion, respectfully dedicated to The PaisleyLitebati, as a small token of admiration fortheir multifarious and transcendent abilities inevery branch of literature, from the produc¬tions of a newspaper “ Gossiping Correspond¬ent,” to this Autobiography.By their sincere friend,And well-wisher,THE AUTHOR,PREFACE.‘Love doth approach armed in arguments.”ShakespeareMy namesake, William Shakespeare, Esquire.of Avon, says that “ the Lunatic, the Lover, andthe Poet are, in imagination, all compactand Ihave observed, that wherever these three char¬acteristics are found combined in one perspn, wehave, what is termed, a Genius \ Paisley hasalways stood high as a nursery of these species ofthe^nus homo-, and she has produced many speci¬mens of the tria juncta in una. At the presenttime, she abounds with such geniuses, who pridethemselves in the cognomen Literati. Besidesthe prolific literary productions of the past, Paisleycan boast of the following works as part of hercurrent literature: First, In “Fame’s proud Tern-8p1e ” shines the “ Temple Lamp,” lighting up thetheological regions; and, at the same time, shedd¬ing its poetic rays “ on life’s dull stream.” Then“ The History of Paisley” unfolds the scroll ofthe past, and, according to a recent critic, showsthat we are famous in haring had the RomanSoldiers billited on us for 200 years—(ratherambiguous fame)—famous in giving Scotland arace of kings—famous in manufactures, including,of course, the brick and tile trade—and famousin literary and “ desperate characters.” Nextcomes the “ Literary WALLET,”the leading topicsof which are Philosophy, Physiology, Criticism,History, and Poetry; and whose system of Phil¬osophy is based on the following creed: “We“ believe that in our waking hours our sensations“ are more powerful, more vivid than our ideasj“ and in our sleeping moments it is the reverse—“ the senses are overcome and ideation assumes“ the mastery.”* Then we have “ The PaisleyObserver,” containing Tales and Original Poetry;and lastly, though not least, “ The PaisleyEphemera,” an illustrated production, whichhas in no small degree sustained the artisticVide P. 8 of The Paisley Wallet.9/talent of the Town ; and although the literatureof this publication is of the burlusque order, italso contains some first-class Poetry The verses“by a Lady” in a recent number were particularlygood; I like to flatter the Ladies. The above listdoes not, of course, include our own Newspapers,or our contributions to the Glasgow Press, and-various Metropolitan and Provincial perodicals.Paisley is truly a wonderful town; and her in¬habitants, like the Jews, are a peculiar people.Whether this poetic and literary talent is owingto her proximity to the classical village of Kilbar-chan, whether the River-cart, which meanders inbeauty through her midst, engenders this literaryamorousness, or whether it is to be accounted forin the great quantity of oatmeal which her peopleconsume,* are questions which will no doubt yetbe solved by one or other of her present historians.As no Autobiography has yet issued from thePaisley Press, I have thought it proper to pub¬lish the present work for three reasons. 1st. Tofill up this Biographical Hiatus in our local liter¬ature. 2nd. To save the Historical Antiquariana deal of trouble and research hereafter; and at* We cultivate literature on a little oatmeal.—/Sydney Smith.the same time, to hand down my name and myfame to future generations; for, as Shakespeareobserves, “ if a man do not erect, in this age,“ his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live no longer“ in monuments; therefore it is most expedient for“ the wise to be the trumpet of his own virtues, as“ I am to myself—so much for praising myself,“ who I myself will bear witness, am praiseworthy.”And 3d. To illustrate the great truth lately en-uciated at Edinburgh by a learned Professor, who,in speaking of talent, industry, and character, said,“ talent is perhaps the most shining of the three,“ but, without industry and character talent can-“ not win its way through the world—the list two“ are the main elements that can carry man or“ woman through life.” I do not claim to havetalent to any very shining extent, but I can proudlysay, that to industry and being a character I owe mymercantile success and prosperity. Like mygreat predecessor in business, (who is soon tohave a monument erected to his memory,)“ Sax pounds I wadna for my pack ance taen,And I could baldly brag ’twas a’ my ain.”Although I have quoted these lines, and, likesome of my contemporary literateurs have, in the11course of my life, made a few attempts at rhymeI am no Poet, and do not wish to be suspected ofsuch a failing, seeing that Macaulay the Historianin his essay on Milton corroborates Shakespeare’sPoetico-lunatic theory, and asserts that “no per-“ son can be a Poet, or can even enjoy Poetry“ without a certain unsoundness of mind.”Some moralists hold that a person has noright to do what he pleases with his own life.I think that is a mistake. My opinion is, that itis not only every man’s right, but his duty tomake the most he can of his life; and in thatopinion I am borne out by a protemporary, MrTristram Shandy, who says that “the sweat of“ a man’s brows and the exudations of a man’s“ brains are as much a man’s own property as“ the breeches upon his backside and as my lifehas hitherto been devoted to mercantile pursuits,I am determined now to make it a mercantilecommodity.From the Critics—for this great work is sureto be criticised—I ask no favour, and I expectnone. I defy them all—they may depend uponit, that a man of my literary talent and commer¬cial experience, will not be“ Snuffed out by an article.”12No, no: I am too tough a customer for that.To use a favourite expression of a great captain,(ye can ‘ whistle o’er the lave o’t,”) “]them thatmeddles wi’ me, meddles wi’ a droll ane.”To those members of the Renfrew County Kil¬winning Lodge, who had such a high appreciationof me, as to desire that I would dedicate thiswork to that body, I beg to tender my sincerethanks. I can assure them that I would have doneso with much pleasure, but, as this was my firstliterary work, and likely to stamp Paisley as theseat of Genius, I thought my co-literateurs hadthe first and best claim.Should the sale of this work add to my emolu¬ments while living, as it will establish my famewhen dead; and if its perusal should be the meansof arousing the dormant or lazy energies of someof my fellow-townsmen, and thereby develope andpromote habits of industry, then this productionwill not be“ LOVE’S Labour Lost.’Paisley, July, 1857.CHAPTER I.Coming events cast their shadows before.Campbell.“ A Black Pudding ?’’ quoth my Grandfather,“ what an idea !” “ Mr Love,” said my Grand¬mother, (she always called him Mr Love, for shewas a very polite and a very learned woman,) ablack pudding is no idea; an idea is not a sub¬stance, now a black pudding is a palpable sub¬stance ; it is a concretion of the blood and suetof an animal of the ruminant order of the classmammalia, encased in a cutaneous gut of the sameanimal, vulgarly called Tripe.” “ And what doI care about all that ?” said my grandfather, whodetested a scientific discussion, especially with mygrandmother, because he was ignorant of scienti¬fic matters, and there she liked to shew off hersuperiority. After a short pause, “ Mr Love,”said my grandmother, “ I must taste black pudding,and that’s the short and the long of it, and youknow, you are bound, as my husband, to satisfy allmy reasonable desires.” “ Surely, surely,’’ saidmy grandfather, “ii you would confine yourself towhat is reasonable—but is it reasonable to ask meto rise from a warm bed at this time in the morn-14ing to get black pudding, merely to gratify a wo¬man’s whim?” “A woman’s whim?” said mygrandmother, “it’s no whim, Mr Love, it is a ne¬cessity and therefore ” “ Has no law,” said mygrandfather, interrupting her. “ Whether it haslaw or not,” said my grandmother, “unless I getblack pudding, I’ll not be responsible for the Lovesof future generations.” “Blaekpuddings and futuregenerations may go ” My grandfather didnot finish the sentence, at all events it was in¬audible, as he began to snore, and my grand¬mother turned her face to the wall and sobbed.This happened on the 14th of November, 1794, .at 3 o’clock in the morning, and on the 11th ofFebruary following, at half-past 10 in the evening,my father was born.“ Is the child all right ?” said my grandmother.“ He’s a gallant boy—I never saw a prettier, ’said the midwife. “ Hand him to me,” said mygrandmother. , “ I was sure of it,” she exclaimed,“ Do you see that mark there?” pointing with herfinger,15“ I knew it—it’s all Mr Love’s fault—I told himwhat it would be ” “ It’s a mercy it’s not onthe face,” said the midwife.I have been the more particular on this matteras it accounts for a certain physiological pecu-larity in the Love family. Besides it may throwsome light on a hitherto dark, or, to use a morescientific word, occult point in physiology—causeand effect. Was my Grandmother—honestwoman—right in her assumption? Was theeffect the result of a culpa, as she stated, and, ifso. w as it a positive or a negative ? It is admit¬ted by all Philosophers, that a pudding is an ex¬ception to a general rule, because it has two ends— may this phenomenon not have had two causes ?Could it not be explained by the laws of Photogra¬phy. I merely throw out this hint, and will nowleave the matter in the hands of the scientificfor discussion. But, methinks I hear a knowingmember of the Paisley Philosophical Society say,w as there really a mark after all ? Was it not amere occular hallucination ? Well, perhaps itwas. I know the qnestion, like all other scientificmatters, is hedged round with difficulties.CHAPTER II.All the world’s a stage,And all the men and women merely players.Shakespeare.From the year 1789, when an infuriated Parisianmob carried, on pikes, the heads of the murderedDelaunay, Governor of the Bastille, and DeFlesselles, the Provost of Trades, till the fall ofthe curtain in 1815 on the Tableau of Waterloo,the European stage had been occupied, almostexclusively, by a succession of Tragedies. TheMelo-drama followed, and when the great cur¬tain rose on the 1st of January, 1819, the scenewas peaceful. Most of the tragic actors having“ strutted their little hour ” had made their exitto return no more. A Bourbon sat, apparentlysecure on the French throne. George III. whohad played a prominent part during the whole ofthat period still, nominally at least, swayed thethe British sceptre. And the leading Tragedian,Napoleon, who had been compelled to retire fromhis favourite walk, stood on a rock in the SouthAtlantic Ocean, with his arms folded, lookingacross the wide waste of waters in the direction17of the North-eastern horizon, thinking of his for¬mer greatness, and as if anxious to get one lastglimpse of chivalrous France. In the course ofthe year that follows—1819—four great charac¬ters made their debut on the world’s stage, whowere destined to play leading parts in the greatDrama, viz.: Our beloved Sovereign Queen Vic¬toria, His Royal Highness Prince Albert, Myself,and His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge]Shakespeare says “that some are born great, someachieve greatness, and some have greatness thrustupon them.” That truth is well illustrated in thefour individuals above named. Her Majesty, theQueen, may be said to have been born great;Prince Albert by his marriage; and the Dukeby his appointment to the Commander-in-chief-ship of the Army, may be said to have hadgreatness thrust upon them, while I have achievedmy greatness by my own inherent talents andsteadiness of purpose.The next great point of importance after theperiod of birth is \h.e place where the illustrous per¬son made his debut. The spot where I was bornwas in the Tenement, No. 26 Queen Street,Paisley. Besides myself. Paisley has given birthto many whom the world delights to honour; andshe has many in her midst just now who will yetbe seen and acknowledged asStare in the literary firmament.”18TTie first glimmer of consciousness—of theknowledge—I am—in the life of a great man isgenerally, when it can be ascertained, made amatter of much importance and of deep specu¬lation among the learned. That no doubt arisesto test the truth of the common saying,“ The child is fathe* to the man.”The first thing which I recollect, was being-sent by my Mother to a well-known Eating-housein the Wellmeadow for a pound of the best Potted-head—the price of which was to be 4d. On enter ¬ing the shop, I asked for a pound of PottedheadThe shopkeeper enquired whether I wanted it atoid. or 4d. ? Not then knowing there was such athing as a difference in the quality of an article, Inaturally reasoned, if I can get a pound of potted-head for 3£d. why should I give 4d. for it ? so Iat once said 3id. I got the article, paid my Sid^1put the other id., which I considered fair profiton the bargain, in my pocket and trudged homewith my message. I did not say anything to mymother about the profit I had made on this, myfirst business transaction, but ran out as fast as Icould, and was very proud in shewing my fortuneto the boys about the doors. Some of the biggerones wanted m e to buy powder to makepeoies. otherswanted me to buy blackman, but the more sen¬sible wanted me to buy a scone. I stoutly resistedall their importunities, and put the money in my19pocket thinking it too much to spend all at once,Being so rich, I was quite an important characteramong my compeers, and some of the elder boys,in the most friendly manner, took me throughto the Gallowgreen (where in former times thewitches were burnt) to learn me to stand on myhead, like Malabar, the great wizard of that day.I made two or three ineffectual attempts to standon my head with my feet against a coal-house door.While so engaged, I observed the bigger boysrunning off, and on getting to my feet and puttingmy hand in my pocket I found that my moneywas gone. Of course no one knew anything aboutit. On missing it, my grief was great, andI cried bitterly. I was led home by a troopof children, and when my mother opened the doorand enquired what was wrang, upwards of a dozen,voices shouted out at once “ Willie’s lost his baw¬bee.” My Mother took me in and enquired whereI had got the bawbee. I said that I made it affthe pottyhead-wife. Ye made it aff the potty-head-wife ? What did ye pay for the pottyhead ?enquired my mother in one breath. 3id. said Iwith the utmost simplicity, for I was unconsciousof any wrong. Ye young rascal, said she, I was sureye hadna brought the richt thing—but I’ll let yerfather ken yer conduct when he comes hame thenicht—and she kept her word. My father was avery douce, decent, honest, man—noways rash inhis movements. He did not, as many no doubt20would have done, in the same circumstances, giveme a scolding or a thrashing; but what was farbetter, he gave me an advice; and among otherthings calmly said, “ Now Willie, this loss o’ yer“ bawbee should be a lesson to ye a’ yer days, that“ honesty is tbe best policy, and that siller that“ disna come richt never gangs richt.” Since thattime I never see pottedhead but I recollect my firstcommercial transaction—my bankruptcy, causedby trying to stand on my head, and my father’slecture, and I have hitherto endeavoured, so far asa mercantile man can, to walk up to theprinciples laid down in that lecture,Moral Reflection.Many a man who considered himself rich in theworld’s goods, and wise in his day and generation,has fallen from his high estate by attempting, likeme, to stand on his head.CHAPTER III.In days when gude king Robert rang,His trews they cost but half-a-crown.Old Song.King Stephen was a worthy peer,His breeches cost him but a crown.Shalcspeare.Thir breeks o’ mine, my only pair,That ance were plush o’ gude blue hair.Burns.Breeks ! what a train of ideas is suggested tothe contemplative by that one word, Breeks lCommon minds see nothing particular in anything—to them“ A primrose by the river's side,A yellow primrose is, and nothing more.”And the ordinary observer sees in Breeks,A pair of Breeks and nothing more.The theologian beholds in Breeks the symbol ofman’s degeneracy. While the mere historian bytheir means traces the onward march from bar¬barism to civilization.The Philosopher sees in Breeks the sign ofman’s perogative, his right to the supreme rulein his own house. He cannot, however, shut hiseyes to the fact that this right is more nominal22than real. From the time when the first Breekswere made till now, the fair sex—“ the weakervessel,”—as they are sometimes erroneouslycalled, will “ wear the Breeks.” Mrs Socrates,of immortal memory, has been held up as thegreat representative woman—she was a heroinewho wore the Breeks, and no mistake. Why dothe writers for the “ Waverley” not agitate for amonument to that good lady, that representativewoman ? What a monster Burns was to writeon such a subject thus:—“ Were such the wife had fallen to my part,I’d break her spirit, ,or I’d break her heart,I’d charm her with the magic of a switch,I’d kiss her maids and kick the ”Methinks I hear the sweet voices of the “ Waver¬ley” ladies exclaim, O the brute! we could“ scratch his eyes out.” Public opinion andfashion are two great powers—more powerfulthan steam, in their own way. Public opiniondeclared itself against the breeks usurpation, andwas on the eve of crushing it, when anotherheroine appeared—General Bloomer—and con¬tested the field, and the battle cry, “ the rights ofwomen,” was loudly heard amidst the strife.After a severe contest, matters were compromisedon the footing that the ladies should be allowedto wear feminine breeks, to be called after theirleader, “ Bloomers.” Public opinion, however.23after pretending to ratify the compromise, drevethe sword of ridicule against the Bloomer-breeks.and fairly laughed them down. The ladies againtook the field, and with their strong ally, fashion,once more took up arms, and under the standard“ crinoline,” renewed the war cry, “ the rights ofwomanIf the ladies succeed in the presentcontest, (and crinoline certainly appears in theascendant), and if they do get into Parliament,Paisley will surely then get a member who canspeak. I believe the rights of women crv is amere dodge to prevent or obstruct any legisla¬tion on the rights of man. Lord Palmerstonmust direct his attention to a reform in the homepolicy. We are in great want of a law definingthe rights of man. I dont think I’ll marry tillwe have such a law. For example, take evenour municipal magnates. After smoking theircalumets at their club, on returning to their res¬pective places of abode, are they not questionedand cross-questioned in the words of the sang,11 Whar hae ye been ? and what were ye doin ? and whawere ye wi ?”Aye, and if they would but speak out, far warthan that. Talk of Tom Paine’s “ Rights ofMan.” Fiddlesticks. There’s no such thing—its all theory. But I hear some one say, whathas all this got to do with the story of your life,Mr. Love ? Nothing, I reply, only it affords24another proof that a philosopher cannot write oneven common place subjects, without philoso¬phising, and throwing a halo around them. Ittests genius. Now for my story.There are epochs in the life of man as well asin the history of the world. Perhaps the great¬est is the first breeJcs. Who does not recollecthis first breeks ? What pride ; what walking upand down and looking up to every one with aneye saying, look at me—see how grand I am.Well do I remember that great occasion in myeventful life. After the breeks were on, and but¬toned, and what beautiful buttons—I had neverseen anything so pretty. I strutted up and downas proud as a peacock, putting my hands in mypockets, and taking them out over and over again.Then I took from that wonderful pocket thetailor's luckspenny, looked at it, and put it backto its place, times without number. I am surethat I felt more pride and consequentiality(there’s a grand word), on the first day of myfirst breeks, than I would do now were HerMajesty to touch me with a sword and say, “ Riseup Sir William Love.” Next came my visitingthe neighbours and various relatives, accompaniedby a train of children, shewing off my new breeks,and getting an occasional bawbee to put in mypockets. I was told that I looked stunning—that I was now a man—that I must get a wife •At that remark the little girls who were present,stood forward as much as saying, “ will ye takme Willie?” But the great, the all absorbingidea of the breeks, was the pockets. I recollectthat my first expression, in answer to the con¬gratulations of my friends was,I'VE GOT IPOCICETS 111Being a philosopher, I cannot refrain frommoralising on that expression, I’ve got pockets.How many have never got rid of it. It has stuckto them through life, it will stick to them tilldeath. Men of one idea—the pocket—they liveand move, and have their being apparently fortheir pocket—their small stingy soul, as theYankees say, lies in a corner of their pocket.26What do they care about being called dishonest—stingy—mean ? Nothing. They “ lay theflattering unction to their soul,” and each sootheshimself with the idea, I’ve got money in my pocketTheir very attempt at honesty is a sore trial-Their maxim, make money honestly if you can’but make money, is their moral pole star. Theyobject to National Education, on principle, andsay, let parents educate their brats out of theirown pockets, what have we to do with them ?Their system of polities is, take the taxes out ofsome other body's pockets, not out of ours ; theyare peace men and denounce war, because ittouches their pocket.—their religion is mammon—they worship the golden calf—most appro¬priate deity—they live unrespected, if not detested,yet, as this is a free country, each may have amonument erected to his memory, if he pays forit out of his own pocket.CHAPTER IV.—He was oneSchooled in adversity.Bard of the North.When about four years of age, I was placed inHutcheson’s Charity School to get my education.The master, a good easy-osy sort of a person, sawthat I was a genius and therefore took a specialinterest in my improvement in letters. Underhis training I soon passed through the Gate ofall learning—the Alphabet. In about six monthsI could read “ lo a man and a gun,” without spell¬ing the words, which was accounted a great featfor a charity scholar, and for which I received‘‘ honourable mention ” at the annual examina¬tion. 1 do not blush in the least in confessingthat I was a charity scholar, seeing that I was theson of a poor but an honest and upright man.Besides, as I have attained to eminence throughmy own exertions, I am entitled to the greatercredit and honour among my fellow-men.Circumstances, however, rule everything. Per¬haps my feelings on being a charity scholarwould have been different had my father been able28to have paid for my education. I know thatif I have the means, no son of mine shall ever bein the position to have it thrown in his teeth bysome low bred scamp, perhaps, that he was taughtin a charity school. I dont object to charityschools—not the least—they are noble, praise¬worthy institutions, but I would have charityschools for charity scholars. “ The right men inthe right place,” has become a national cry, whynot the right boys in the right place.I got on with my education to the surprise ofevery one, and before twelve months elapsed Iwas as far as the lesson beginning“ Tom, can you tell me the use of your nose ?”and before another year had passed I was quiteat home in“ My name is Norval, on the Grampian hills,” and“ John Gilpin was a Citizen.”At this time I was progressing in knowledgeand wisdom beyond the most sanguine expecta¬tions of my friends and teachers.A Professor of Phrenology who once examinedmy Bumps said that I had a splendid develope-ment—that I had the head of a Genius and wasdestined for greatness. My after life has provedthat he was correct. While at school“ Thoughts of great deeds were mine.”29In my fervid imagination, the Pulpit and theBar “loomed in the distance,” as fields for theexercise and display of my abilities. Had Istudied for the Pulpit Iwould, no doubt, have beenlike Queen Elizabeth, of happy memory, a“ Bright Occidental Star.” Had I tried the BarI might have been Lord Chancellor of England;or had I thrown myself into the arena of PoliticsI would, in all likelihood, have been Premier.The only position for which, I felt, nature hadnot designed me was a General. I was always in¬clined for peace—peace at any price—so that hadI been member for Paisley in the House of Com¬mons, at the time of the Russian War, I wouldinstinctively have joined the Cobden-Bright party,and then Peace and Love joined together mighthave crumpled up our northern enemies. Ibelieve, however, that war is necessary to estab¬lish Peace. With a rampant foe, it is absurd toreason about Peace and arbitration. A blow isthe only argument—it convinces, if it does notconvert—as Shakespeare says :“ In peace, there’s nothing more becomes a man,As mild behaviour and humility;But, when the blast of war blows in our ears,Let us be tigers in our fierce deportment.”I recollect well that when at school my peacepropensities began to develope. When theHutcheson Boys—that’s a softer expression than30Charity Boys—and the Emeralders—anotherSchool then at the bottom of the Penbrae, nowstyled the Pantheon—met in battle array—whichwas a thing of every-day occurence—and whenthey tested their scholastic superiority with sticksand stones and fists, I attempted to negotiate andmake peace; but there I learned that in such casesit was better and safer either to retire from themelee or at once take a side and act with firm ¬ness, for“ Dangers retreat when boldly they’re confronted.”The fact is, that on these occasions, speakingpoetically,1 was treated with contempt by friends and foes,And oft retreated from the field with a bloody nose.CHAPTER Y.Tig fate diverts our course, and fate we must obey.Dry den's Virgil.There’s a divinity doth shape our ends,Rough hew them how we may.ShaJcspeare.The best laid schemes o’ mice and men,Gang aft agee.Burns.Were you, good reader, ever at a fair? If youwere, you must have heard such cries as these —“ This way, this way, put your hand in the pock,all prizes, no blanks.” “ Come away my luckylads, choose your colours while the ball roils,u there’s two to one on the black.” “ Sport away,“ sport away, above seven or below seven, seven’su my chance.” “ Be down in time, gentlemen, this“ is the place for making your fortunes, the real“ original gold diggings, six to one on the feather,“the anchor has it, there’s none on the anchor“ the stakes are mine, etc.Now, don’t start sweet reader, I am not going,to defend these scenes of petty gambling. I wouldsimply beg to remark, that to the philosophicmind they afford subjects for philosophizing. Forexample, these games are all apparently games otchance, it appears to be mere luck if you win.32Some, even orthodox people, say that life is a gameof chance, and ruled by luck; and to prove itthey show instances of successful spoonies, whileclever fellows like me are always kept in the background. Notwithstanding these instances, I don’tbelieve in the luck theory, either at the fair, or inthe game of life. The master of the gaming tablecan and does divert the ball to the colour he wants,and, as Virgil says, “Fate diverts our course, andlate we must obey.” I believe with Napoleon indestiny. Like the lucky pock at the fair, life isalso all prizes, and no blanks; but to be successfulwe must venture, we must put forth our hand anddraw the prize. The cat in gloves catches no mice,says Poor Richard, and the unlucky man hasgenerally himself to blame for his bad luck. Natureis impartial in the distribution of her prizes, andwhere she falls short in one thing, she makes it upby another. I see some have riches withoutbrains, and some have brains without riches. Inmy own case I am poor, but my poverty is morethan compensated by a form faultless and beautifulas Adonis. All the ladies are in love with me,and no wonder.I was not bom with a silver spoon in my mouth.The flowery paths of life were not for me to treadon. I had and have still to travel the rough turn¬pike. My young school boy dream of professionalgreatness and celebrity, was soon dispelled by thestern actualities of life. I was early thrown into33the stream like the young niggers to sink or swim,and I have had to struggle since for my veryexistence. My parents being unable to supportme, I was taken from school when about eightyears of age, and sent to earn my livelihood as aweaver’s drawboy. At that occupation I remainedseveral years; and during that period my ardentgenius was cramped as much as ever an Apothe¬cary’s apprentice was over his pestle and mortar.As I could not, while pent up in a weaver’s shop,get proper scope for the expansion of my intellec¬tual faculties in a literary way, I turned my atten¬tion to politics. There’s no place like a weaver’sshop for studying politics. In 1830, 1 took a deepinterest in the question of Parliamentary Reform,then agitating the country. I attended the greatReform demonstrations at Renfrew, when the crywas “ the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but theBill.” There can be no doubt that my moral aidand influence very much assisted Lord J ohn Rus¬sell in passing the Reform Bill, which secured ourconstitutional liberties. The young men of thepresent generation can have no idea of the diffi¬culties which we had to contend with at that timeto secure for them these liberties. I certainly ex¬pected that for such political services I would havebeen rewarded by my political party with a Govern¬ment appointment, but I was doomed to disappoint¬ment, as many others before me have been. Theday will come, however, it is already “looming34in the distance,” as Disraeli says, when the rightman will be put in the right place, when“ Sense and worth, o’er a’ the- earthShall bear the gree, and a’ that.”Then will I get justice. Had I been Her Majesty’srepresentative at Hong Kong, this country wouldnot now have been at war with China, and Messrs.Bright, Cobden, and many other good men andtrue, would still have been in Parliament. Wars,and rumours of wars, invariably arise from havingthe wrong men in place, while the right men arein no place at all, as in my own case. When willthe world learn wisdom ?As I grew up my naturally active and ardentmind revolted at the common place drudgery of theloom, and I determined to free myself from itsJteddies and treddles. Many a time I mentallyconsigned these articles to the place which EobKov wished to see Bailie Nicol Jarvis heddles andtreddles sent to. Having heard and read of Pack¬men I resolved, like Nerval of the Grampians, toleave my father’s house, and take with me a chosenwell selected pack, and with it push my fortune inthe wide, wide world, as a Packman ! or to use amore polite phrase, as a Commercial Traveller.The latin scholar has now the key to my abbreviatedtitled P.C., and which no other person has anyright to assume.35/fMy first pack was very small, and I had manydifficulties to contend with, but, as patience andperseverance was my motto, I soon managed to geta portmanteau well stuffed, and then like my pro*totype, Illeezed my pack for a lang hard campaign,And as the Highland’s was the place for meat,I ventur’d there in spite o’ wind and weet.Since that time I have travelled much, and haveseen and marked the selfishness of man, as well ashis redeeming qualities. No one can see thevarious phases of life and character like a packman -The closet philosopher may sit.in his study andimagine character, but the packman sees it at everystep. Every house he enters with his “needlesand preens,” presents a new feature, and could formmaterials for a story. One crabbed old maid willslap the door in his face. Another will ask him inand tell him all her complaints, liow the neighboursill-use her, and everybody tries to tantalise her, all,as she says, because “ Tm a lone woman, and havenot a manbody about the house.” On opening thenext door, he hears the joyous voices of children,and on entering he sees a tiny congregation ; onelittle boy standing on the arm chair preaching withthe air of a John Knox, while a younger one sitson a stool below acting the part of precentor. Thecongregation are all singing while the preachingis going on, and the mother sits amidst the noise36quite happy looking, with her baby in her lap.This is a place where a Packman has a good chanceof effecting a sale. In one place the Packman seesproud stuck-up persons, who contemptuously turnup their noses at him as if they were somebody.Poor helpless creatures, thinks the Packman as heturns away, you could not eke out existence even atthe pack. How lucky it was for you that your fatherwas bom before you, or many of you might be inthe poorhouse. In another place he is met withthe utmost frankness, and, if in the country, he issupposed to be able to tell them all the news.During the war the usual salutation was, comeawa man an gae us your crack, what's the newsabout the Rusluans ? Whenever I enter a houseand see all in confusion, the breakfast dishes stand¬ing unwashed at dinner time, and a dirty slovenlywife, I know that self created poverty is there, andI spend very little time in such a “ staun.” Onthe contrary where I find cleanliness, I findeconomy, and consequently a little spare cash, andthere I can, generally, effect a sale. In short thescenes snd phases of character are like “ Highland-men’s gartans,” no two are exactly the same.I think Shakspere must have travelled with thepack in his youth. I cannot imagine how he couldotherwise have been such a powerful delineator ofu human natur,” as Sam Slick calls it—by thebye Mr Slick was also a Packman—and thenBurns, if he was not at one time a Packman, he37must have associated with that fraternity, or henever could have produced his “Jolly Beggars”—The incidents in a Packman’s travels are innu¬merable, some of them rich and rare. If thiswork pays, I may be induced to publish another^titled,TRAVELS AND INCIDENTSOF A PACKMAN!WITH RUNNING COMMENTARIES ON THINGS IN GENERAL.CHAPTER VI.He saw with his own eyes the Moon was round ;Was also certain that the Earth was square;For he had travelled fifty miles, and foundNo sign of its being circular anywhere.Byron.I have trod merry England, and dwelt on her charms,I have wandered through Erin, the gem of the sea.Park.I’ve wandered east, I’ve wandered west,Through mony a weary way.Motherwell.Its all very well for Chamber Students to study,in their closets, Goldsmith’s History of the Earth andAnimatedNature,Shakspeare’s Humanity or Hum-holt’s Cosmos, and thereby acquire a second-handview of such things, but a real genuine knowledge ofsubjects can only be acquired by travelling, andseeing the world as it is, and man with his every¬day clothes on. A person’s knowledge ought tobe estimated by what he has seen with “ his owneyes,” and heard with his own ears—and what hehas seen can only be measured by the extent ot histravelling, and such travelling must be bona fide.Now what is a bona fide traveller ? That questionhas puzzled lawyers, linguistst and more especially39Justices of the Peace. It appears still undefined.In place of consulting dictionaries and dead lan¬guages, had my opinion been asked, I would havesettled the question at once—by saying—I am aBona fide Traveller. Because I do really andtruly travel. To be whirled along on a railway;borne down the river, up the lake, or across theocean in a steamer or ship, or driven along theturnpike in a carriage, is not travelling—the per¬sons are merely live cargo. They are not in theplain meaning of the term bona fide travellers.Without detracting from Dr. Livingston’s wefiearned laurels, I think I might safely boast ofhaving travelled as much as he, if not more ! andyet no demonstration has been made in mvfavour. 1 have received no public testimonial, Iam neither an L.L.D., nor a K.C.B., although, Ihave no doubt, if the Paisley Walking Swimmingand General Recreation Association, or the RoyalPaisley Pedestrians got the hint, they would bothelect me an honorary member. I cannot accountfor this neglect of my claims, except by the con¬soling fact that real genius is seldom honouredtill heShuffles off the mortal coil.”Speaking of Testimonials, this may be called the ageof Testimonials and Presentations. Who is there inPaisley at least who has not a Snuff-box, or a Stick,or something which he “ in a neat and appropriate40speech/’ promised to hand down to his posterity^and bearing some such inscription as the following :—“Presented to (John Smith), Esquire, by anumber of his friends and ardent admirers, as atoken of their respect and esteem for his many ex¬cellent qualities as a man, and his usefulness as acitizen.—(1857.) Of course the inscription variesaccording to circumstances, as in the following in¬stance :—“ This Stick is Presented to (TimothyJenkins), Police Officer, by a number of SpiritDealers, in testimony of their appreciation of hisactivity and vigilance in the prevention of crime?as proved by the fact that on his beat no case, underForbes Mackenzie’s Act, had been prosecutedduring the last twelve months.—(1857.) I haveno objections to Testimonials and Presentations inthemselves, but I would like to see them limited tothe right men. Don’t think I am saying this outof spite, or on the principle of the sour grapes—nosuch thing ; I might have got a Presentation longago, if I had merely asked a friend or two to setabout it, and go round for subscriptions. I knowthe way to do it, but I’ll have none got by dun¬ning—to me it must be a spontaneous free-willoffering.But to return to my travels—I have been a Ionafide traveller for the last twenty-five years, and toshew the extent of ground I have gone over duringthat period, I had better state it in figures. Twentymiles a day (and that is within the mark), six days’41in the -week, is 120 miles a week, or 6,240 miles ayear, or 156,000 miles m the 25 years. So thattaking the estimated circumference of the Earthat 24,930 miles, I have travelled since I beganbusiness, more than = Six times round the Earth.Can Dr Livingston beat that ? If I am not a bonafide traveller and worthy of being an honoraryM.P.W.S., & G.R.A., and a R.P.P., I would liketo know who is.In this small book it is, of course, impossible togive the particulars of my travels over such a vastfield, including the Cambraes and the adjacentIslands of Great Britain and Ireland—but I willbriefly, and as a specimen of what a book I couldwrite, give a few of my leading peregrinations.With my Pack on my shoulders, I trudged overthe Gleniffer Braes, through Dunlop, and downupon Kilwinning to do a little business at the greatEglinton Tournament. I made rather a goodthing of it among the smokers, in the lucifer matchline; really they needed a smoke, for such weatheras we had—it rained without intermission duringthe whole time of the Tournament. I have, in mytravels, seen many daft folk, but I never saw somany collected as on that occasion. They were inthousands, and from all quarters—standing likedrouket craws, but perfectly quiet and harmless.The cold water cure must have had a soothingeffect on their nerves. Having had a green um¬brella, I was often taken for Prince Napoleon (the42present Emperor of the French), and sometimesfor the Marquis of Waterford, in disguise. I heardmany remark, after buying a box of matches,—“ hemust be doing it for a wager.” Although my saleswere good, I could not help pitying the poor idiots,going about for days and nights drenched to theskin, to see a show—to see imitation Don Quix¬otes, and Sancho Panzas—to see“ in bloodless pomp array’d,The pasteboard triumph and the cavalcade.”Another of my leading excursions was to Bal¬moral. I went there as a loyal subject, to pay avisit to Her Majesty, at her own house. I startedfrom Paisley through Dumbarton, on by Loch-lomand to Aberfeldy, from thence by Dunkeld toBlair Athol, where I arrived on the Saturday night,having travelled four days. I had many adventureson the way, which I have noted for my great work,“ Incidents of my Travels.” I went to church onSunday with the Duke of Athol. The Duke didnot invite me to dine with him, because, as I sup¬pose, he saw that J was not in full dress. I leftBlair Athol on Monday morning, for Braemar. Imet a party of Ladies and Gentlemen whom, inpassing, I very politely saluted, which they aspolitely returned. I overhead them asking oneanother who I was, one said I think he’s SirKobert Peel,” another remarked, “ he walks likethe Duke of Cambridge,” a third said, u he’s like43Prince Albert.” They all however concluded thatI was a very great man, and I walked on as im¬portant looking as possible. On reaching BraemarCastle, I found an immense gathering of people,and a regiment of soldiers, all waiting the arrivalof Her Majesty. I sauntered about, looking atthe scenery, and when the word spread that HerMajesty had arrived, there was great excitement.I got into a good position for seeing the Royalprocession. The carriage in which the Queen andPrince Albert were, halted for a short time whereI stood. I took off my hat and cried, “ Long liveQueen Victoria,” at which she looked at me andsmiled. I then cried, “ Long live Prince Albert.”He was a long time in acknowledging me, but aftera while he gave me a very dry nod. The Queenthen gave me a very gracious bow, and smiled asecond time. Prince Albert appeared very angryand jealous at seeing me there, and so much takennotice of, or, I think Her Majesty wouldhave spoken to me. The carriage then moved offamid great cheering. I heard many of the on¬lookers remark that I was a far handsomer manthan the Prince. The next time I saw HerMajesty was on the balcony of the castle, lookingat the games, and the Highlanders dancing in thepark. After the games Her Majesty and suite leftfor Balmoral, and on the carriage with the royalparty again passing me, I gave Her Majesty avery polite bow, which she very sweetly returned.44I punished the Prince on this occasion by nottaking the slightest notice of him, at which heappeared very much chagrined. When the maidsof honour passed I bowed to them, which they verykindly acknowledged. I saw them looking afterme quite delighted, and evidently in love with me.I followed the royal party to Balmoral, and as Ialways endeavour to unite business with pleasureI sold goods on the way, and turned a little money.On reaching Balmoral I got lodgings in the houseof a shepherd. I got up in the morning and wentto the castle, where I fell in with the maids ofhonour. They spoke to me and were perfectlydelighted with me. I think they would have gonethe length of proposing marriage, but at that mo¬ment Her Majesty appeared on horseback, and wehad to separate, which was, no doubt, a great trialto them. After that I went into the Royal Bootand Shoe Shop, at Balmoral, to sell goods, and whilethere two gentlemen came in, who priced severalof my articles, and entered into conversation withme, and seemed much surprised at my general in¬telligence and information, seeing, as they said, thatI was not an elector. They appeared very anxiousto know the state of political feeling in Paisley, regarding parliamentary reform. I told them thatsince assisting to pass the Reform Bill, I had takenlittle or no interest in politics. One of them said“Paisley is the most enlightened place in the coun¬try.” “ No doubt of it (said the other), itj gives45the tone of politics to Europe.” They did not,however, buy any thing from me, although theytook up a deal of my time talking to them and giv¬ing them information, and I left them in the shop*I have been told since that one of them was LordJohn Russell. On leaving Balmoral I visitedseveral parts of the Highlands, and returned homevia Perth and Stirling.In the year 1851, everybody went to London tosee the Great Exhibition, and I went too. Havingonce before travelled on foot to London, I tookthe sea for a change, and sailed from theBromielaw. For some time the voyage was pleas¬ant, but afterwards it came on a violent storm.The waves ran mountains high, and dashed ourvessel backwards and forwards, and then burstover it as if to bury it in the dread abyss, but thegallant ship went nobly on, steming the angrywaves. The captain seemed afraid, for he wascontinually roaring to some one or another, and thepassengers were crouching here and there below,hold¬ing on by whatever they could clutch to keep themfrom being tumbled from the one side to the otheras the ship pitched—I remained on deck calm andserene amidst the war of elements, encouraging thecaptain and crew. After the storm had subsideda little, a cabin passenger who had seen and admiredmy coolness, came on deck and took me below,and gave me a glass of spirits. When I lookedround on the pale faces of the passengers, I could46hot help thinking that our great Paisley Poet,Davie Webster, was not far wrong when, in hispoetic account of the wreck at Arenthrew, he sang,“ If I think about ganging abroad,Nae sailing for me, faith Pll hurl.“When will Paisley erect a Monument to Davie’smemory ? Royal Arenthrew! famous in songand story—classic spot! where the Royal Liter¬ary & Philosophical Potatoe & Herring Incor¬poration holds its annual re-unions—why do youforget Davie, who sang of your Bannocks andSalmon ? But to resumeWe arrived all safe at Blackwall pier, London,early on the morning of the fourth day of ourvoyage. The captain’s lady having seen andadmired my courage during the storm, ordered metwo days provisions, and some of the sailors con¬fessed that my example spurred them on to greaterexertions in working the vessel, or we might allhave gone to the bottom—another proof of thevalue of true courage and a good example.Having landed I made for Hyde Park, the greatpoint of attraction, which I reached about 10 o’clockin the forenoon, and entered the Exhibition. Thesight which was presented, was certainly verygrand and imposing, and the buzz and hum ofvoices, and of people of every nation continuallypassing up and down, had a strange effect. Thefirst view seemed the realization of Aladdin’s Cfys-4?If.tal Palace, reared by the genii of the lamp. Amongthe first things which attracted my attention was asplendid portrait of Her Majesty. Not far from itthere was another portrait, which might havepassed for mine, hut I understand that it was in¬tended for Prince Albert. I think the artist musthave seen me somewhere, as the most strikingpoints of my physiognomy were adroitly put in togive the portrait a princely appearance. I remainedin the Exhibition five hours, looking at the numer¬ous objects of interest, and then being fatigued, Iwent to my lodgings.When I lay down in bed that night my mind wasin a strange whirl of excitement; I had, within thelast few hours, seen more than Eastern imaginationcould conceive. I lay for some time restless—Icould net sleep. After a while, I began to doze.Suddenly I felt myself falling from the top of St.Paul’s, but somehow I was not hurt. Again, I wasin the storm, standing on the deck of the vesselwhich heaved with the billows. Amidst the how¬ling of the tempest, the flash of the lightning madethe “ darkness visible,” and “ night hideous.” Ina twinkling all was calm, and I found myself“Far away, in some region oldWhere the rivers wander o'er sands of gold;Where the burning rays of the ruby shine*And th« diamond lights up the secret mine,And the pearl gleams forth from the coral stand.“48And I felt myself in the happy land. I was alone,in a canoe gliding smoothly, as if a thing of air,on the still bosom of a glassy sea: I floated onpleasantly without the slightest exertion, propelledby the mere act of my will, that buoyed me up,—like TelPs eagle—but the cup of pleasure was soondashed from my lips; the tiny bark struck on acoral reef and filled, and then it and I sank beneaththe surface—strange sounds filled my ears—whilesinking I opened my eyes, and beheld all aroundme of a beautiful green, and strairge fishes witheyes sparkling brighter than the Kooh-i-nor, lookedwonderingly at me as I continued to sink down,down. I fell into a stupour—how long I remainedin it I cannot say, but when I regained my sensesI was in a coral cave glittering with gems in¬numerable. After gazing a little, wrapt in wonderand admiration, melodious sounds fell on my ear,the like of which I had never heard before.Attracted by the music, I left the coral cave andentered another apartment, of the most gorgeouscolours. The roof appeared one vast rainbow, sup¬ported by pillars of adamant, inlaid and variegatedwith gold, rubies, and emeralds. The floor waspearl, from which fountains threw up sparklingwaters of fantastictic colours. Here and there onpedestals of alabaster, stood men and women, themost beautiful I had ever seen. One like the“ Greek Slave,” beckoned me towards her—Iapproached—she held out her chain in a sappli-49eating manner. I put forth my hand to releaseher, and when I touched her the whole fabric dis¬solved with a rushing sound, and I found myselfat the bottom of the sea. Curiously shaped crea¬tures swam around me, and seemed to regard mewith interest. While looking at them I saw amonster approaching me—it was of immense size,with an enormous head, and large round eyes—inshape like a man—like one of the Knights of Old,with his visior down, and encased in leather. Itseized hold of me; I struggled and shrieked, andthen I heard a voice saying, “ what’ll ye ’ave forbreakfast. I looked up, all in a tremor, with myforehead covered with perspiration, and found thatI was snug in bed, and the landlady standingbeside me. I saw at once how matters stood.“ Ham and Eggs,” said I, and turned round for alittle on my side to settle my confused ideas.After breakfasting I took the road homewards,and travelled on foot from London to Liverpool,passing through the classical city of Oxford, andthe great iron towns Birmingham and Sheffield.On reaching Liverpool, I put up for the day, andsailed next morning for Glasgow, and on my arrivalthere I started for Paisley, and reached home safeand sound, having seen the Great Exhibition, andmet with many adventures on the journey, whichvery considerably increased my knowledge andwisdom.50Few persons in speaking of the Exhibition candescribe it—they all say that its description is im¬possible. Now that arises from ignorance—notignorance in general, but ignorance in particular—ignorance of Packmanism. The Great Exhibitionwas neither more nor less than an immense pack,spread out and shown off to the best advantage.I think Prince Albert must have borrowed theidea from me when he saw me with my pack, atBraemar, so that it may be said that I was theoriginal, or primary cause of the Great Exhibition,which has been reproduced in America, France,and other parts—and yet neither medals were givenme, nor honourable mention made of me in con¬nection with it. Another proof to the world thatneglect is generally the fate of Genius. Never¬theless, justice will yet be done meIn the good time coming.”CHAPTER VII.Lives of great men all remind us,We can make our lives sublime.Longfellow.A true delineation of the smallest man and his scenes ofpilgrimage through life, is capable of interesting the greatestman. Carlyle.A modern writer remarks, “ nothing astonishesmen so much as common sense and plain dealing.”That must be on account of their rarity, like acertain kind of charity. It is as difficult to^finda man of common sense, as a four-leaved clover.1 have often wondered why people seemed aston¬ished at me, but the above remark solves theproblem ; it’s my common sense and plain dealing,and fair dealing (a still rarer quality), that doesit. In these respects I stand out in bold relieflike a statue in a stereoscope, or poetically “ likea lone star in a tempestuous night.” i considermyself a standard of common sense, and were I aPrince Consort, 1 might be called The ImperialStandard 1 have always dealt in a plain, unos¬tentatious way, and nobody can say that 1 evercheated even to the extent of a lucifer match, ora corset lace. That’s what few of my brothermerchants can say. Many of them no doubt livein fine houses, and fare sumptuously every day,and, in their own estimation, are the great andmighty of the earth, but in this mercantilePHANTASMAGORIA. the scene of fine gen-tlemanism dissolves, and is followed by prisonsand suicides ; these again dissolve, and then weread in fiery characters,resiiisw m iriafEI am almost however inclined to believe withOtway, that“ Honesty is but a notion,Like wit, much talked of, not to be defined :He that pretends to most too, has least share in’t.”From the peer to the peasant, roguery seems therule, honesty the exception.Another of the wonders of the world, is con¬sistency. Where is the consistent man? if I,like Diogenes, were to take a lanthern and goout in search of a consistent man, I would see, asI have seen, strange sights. I could give abund¬ance of illustrations, but had better not, as everyone would think I meant him in particular, andthat would be travelling on dangerous ground, asPaddy said when he walked cm the ice. But inorder to test whether there be a consistent man(of course myself excepted). 1 here offer to givea copy of this book, “• with the Author’s compli¬ments” marked on it, to any person who, withina year from its publication, will prove that he has,even outwardly, acted in all things consistently,for only three weeks ! and besides 1 will en¬deavour to get his photograph, with a full chartof his phrenological developement hung up in theMuseum of the Paisley Philosophical Society, asone of its greatest curiosities.Great men, like me, are finger posts on the53turnpike roads of time pointing “ Onwards."They have always some predominant faculty bywhich they are distinguished. Some have avolubility of language, as if they had swallowedDr Johnson’s Dictionary, with the Notes, or adose of literary pills. Some, like the shepherdin “ Noctes Ambrosian®” can “ dispute on anysubject—sacred or profane.” My great distin¬guishing gift is memory. J have a first class one.This Autobiography has been written entirelyfrom memory, without the assistance of a singlenote. I can, at pleasure, dig up from the deeprecesses of the brain, things which have lain thereundisturbed for years. For instance, how longis it since any one of my 20,14 subscribers hasthought of the Paisley Bailies parading to theKirk fro n the Council Chamber—the Town-officers, dressed with scarlet coats, knee’d breeks,and carrying glittering halberds in their hands,marching before, in all the pomp of power, andlooking as if they felt themselves the connectinglink between the Church and the State? Youall recollect this now when J have touched thesecret spring of j#ur dull brains—and whatthoughts does that resuscitated idea awaken?Those w'ere the days when a sound state of thingsprevailed. The “ Tumble the-wulket” heterodoxywas then unknown in the kirk. The Bailie, withhis big round gaucy belly, was a terror to evildoers—and although “ time changes a’ things,” Icannot yet believe in a bailie, like Cassius, withli a lean and hungry look.” I don’t know howit is,but to my mind a scranky bailie is not natural.When the Reformed Council went into office, thebelly “ with good capon lined” was banished54from the judgment seat—and their successors inoffice were merely big with great ideas. Every¬thing was to be reformed—and wonders per¬formed. The tone of society was to rise like thehands of a thermometer from bad weather to fine.Cart was to be improved, and made a mightyriver, on whose expansive waters ships of warwere to float free of tonnage. The people lookedastonished, and wondered why they had so longsubmitted to be misruled, but the knowing onesshook their heads and significantly said, “ wait awee.” The reformed senators met, and one oftheir first resolutions was, “ that parading to the“ kirk be discontinued in all time coming, as being“ a direct interference with the liberty of con-4’ science, and the right of private judgment.” Oneof them in supporting that resolution said, “verily“ friends, it is necessary in this enlightened age“ that these vain shews, these baubles and char-“ acteristics of barbarous times be rooted out;“ besides, the appearance of the red coats and the“ halberds awakens, in some minds, awkward“ reminiscences” Down went the red coats andthe halberds, and from thaFhour Paisley as acorporation, has stood still, notwithstanding theProclamation painted at the cross, “ It is not per¬mitted to stand on the Pavement,”—or if it hasprogressed, it has been backwards.The higher the tree, the more it has to en¬counter the rude winds ; and the greater the man,the more is he assailed by the blasts of the splene¬tic, the waspish, and the malicious.“ Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow,Thou shall not escape calumny."55I have felt the force of that truism also in myexperience. Like Gulliver among the Lillipu¬tians, I was a prominent mark for the poisonedarrows of “ small men.” I was ridiculed inprint, and being resolved to teach my calum¬niator a lesson, I sat down and wrote the follow¬ing letter on the subject:—“ Love Villa, &c., &c.My Dear Sir,—Did you ever read of the Frogwhich tried to swell itself out to the proportionsof an Ox ? if you did, you will, no doubt, remember the awful catastrophe which befel the am¬bitious little Frog. You must have heard toothe maxim “ they who live in glass houses shouldnol^ throw stones.” And from your classicalknowledge you will be familiar with the story ofAchilles, who when a very little boy, was dippedin the Styx, to make him invulnerable. Yourecollect that his mother held him by the heelwhen dipping him, which was not touched by themiraculous water, and the consequence was thathe was vulnerable in that part. Can you makethe application ? You are a young man, and may,like the Trojan hero, have a vulnerable part.Beware then how j^u write in future regardingpublic men like me, or in fact regarding anybody,lest you get your own corns tramped on.” J am,yours very truly.” I submitted the letter to afriend of mine for his opinion- He said it wastoo soft, and advised me not to send it but, atonce, to raise an action of damages against mytraducers, as a warning, and to teach them andothers publicly that I was a man not to be trifledwith. The action was raised, and the worldknows the result. 1 vindicated my positior andmy honour—proved that I was the “ Comyn man,”and at the same time settled the question after-56wards raised in the Court of Session, in the cele¬brated case against the Scotsman.So you see gentle reader, that my life has beena chequered one, and that I have not acquiredmy greatness without labour, annoyance, patience,and perseverance. Still, the man,“ Who noble ends by noble means obtains,Or, failing, smiles in exile or in chains ;Like great Aurelius, let him reign or bleed,Like Socrates, that man is great indeed.”And now, having detained you perhaps too longwith the various scenes of my pilgrimage, 1 mustmake my exit, feeling, like Pope, “how difficult itis to speak of ones self with decency,” and as thecurtain gently falls, imagine yourself in front ofthe County Buildings, Paisley, while the splendidband of the Renfrewshire Militia, playsGOD SAVE THE QUEEN.(This Work is Copyright, and the Author reserves tohimself the right of Translating and Publishing it on theContinent of Europe, and in America.)