o *Comical TransactionsAN TOM.IN SIX PARTS,LOTHIontaining a Collection of Roguish Exploits doneby him both in Scotland and England.STIRLING:PRINTED BY W, MACNIE.lass.THE COMICAL TRANSACTIONSLOTHIAN TOM.PART I.'jpHIS Thomas Black, vulgarly callecLothian 1 om, after his native countywas born four miles from EdinburghHis father being a very wealthy fannergave him good education, which he wavery auk ward in receiving, being a verwild, cross, and mischievous boy.1. When he was about ten years of agehe was almost killed by the stroke oia horse’s foot, which his father had, wh>had a trick of kicking at every persoithat came in behind him ; but when Tonwas got heal of the dreadful woundwhereof many thought he would haV’died, to be even with the horse, he geta clog, or piece of a tree* full of woodeipins, such as shoe-makers use to softentheir leather upon, and with a rope he tie<|it to the couple-bauk in the stable, directl;;opposite to the horse’s tail j then gets ujlon the bank, and gives it a swing back,so that the pikes in the end of it, camefull drive against the horse’s arse, whichmade him to fling: and the more he flungand struck at it, it rebounded back againand struck him. The battle lasted withgreat fury, for a long time, which wasgood diversion to Tom, until his father,•hearing some disturbance in the stable,came in to know the matter, and was sur¬prised when he saw the poor horse tan¬ning his own hide, with his legs all cutand bloody ; he cut the rope, and the bat¬tle was ended. But the poor horse wouldnever kick at any that came behind himafterwards, but always ran from it.2. It happened one day that Tom wenta-fishiug, and brought home a few smallfish, which his grandmother’s cat snapt upin the dark : so Tom, to have justice ofthe cat for so doing, catches her, and putsher into a little tub, or cog, then sets hera-drift into a mill-dam, ordering her togo a fishing for herself; then sets out twoor three dogs upon her, when a most ter¬rible sea tight ensued, as ever was seenon fresh water; or if any of the dogsassayed to board her, by setting in evertheir nose, hadrons came flying to ;hatquarter, to repulse him with her claws;( )then the vessel was like to be oversetthe weight of herself, so she had toto the other; and finding the same there,from thence to the middle, where she satmewing, always turning herself about,combing their noses with her foot. Theold woman, being informed of the dan¬gerous situation of her dearly beloved cat,■ came running with a long pole to beat offthe dogs, and haul her ashore. Whatnow, says Tom, if you be going to take |part with my enemies, you shall havepart of their reward : then gives the oldwoman such a push, that she tumbled intothe dam over head and ears, beside herbeloved cat, and would undoubtedly haveperished in the water, had not one of thepeople, who was there looking at the diver¬sion, came to her relief.3. After this Tom was sent to theschool, to keep his hand out of an ill turn:And having an old cankered, crab-witted 1fellow for his dominie, they were always Jat variance; for if Tom had got his whips,which he often deserved, he was sure to |be revenged upon his master again for it.So Tom perceiving that his master hada close-stool in a little closet within theschool, where he went to ease himself..,Tom gets a penny-worth of gun-powderv L'c . . - • -AIKfln/Lm VYvUjb ^b/fleeC 5 )and sprinkled it on the ground, directly*tbefore the seat, and lays a little of it(along in a train >o the fire*sidej then(observing when his master went into it.Hind as he was loosing down his breches,sets fire to the train, which blew it allbbout his Master’s bare hips, and.scorchedshim terribly, Resides the fright, for whichTom was severely whipt; yet in a littfe(after he revenged it on his Master.i 4. So it happened one day, as Tomivent into his Master’s house, the wifei.vas stooping into a big meal-barrel, to>ring out some meal: Tom takes her(ty the feet, and coups her up into theoarrel with her head down, and her barenack-side uppermost; then runs into thejichool, crying, O Master, Master! thepehl’s looking out o’ your meal stand, wi’: fat face, and a blacl- ill-faur’d mouth;ton’s just Auld Nick, if he be living-—b-t this the Master ran with all the speed!e could, to see what it was, and found itp be his own wife, speechless and almost(mothered to death ; but as she could notj'll who did it, Tom got clear off: Yet'e was not satisfied without some morenengeance on the old fellow ; and know-fg his Master had a fashion, when heeras going to whip the boys, it they wouldnot loose their breeches willingly, he drewhis knife and cut them through the waist¬band behind : So Tom goes to the butcher,and gets a. raw pudding, and fills it withblood and water, and puts it within thewaistband of his breeches ; then goes tothe school next day, and, as the masterwas sitting with his back towards the fire,Tom lights a piece of paper, and sets hiswig in a low, which burnt for some timeunperceived, until the flames came fiz¬zing about his ears! He first put outthe flames by trampling on the wis, andbeing informed that Tom did it, flies tohim in a rage, ordering him to loose hisbreeches, hut Tom told him he was neverso mad ; then he drew his knife, andwhips poor Tom over his knee, and withjgreat kicking and struggling cuts theiwaist-hand of his breeches thro1 pudding;,and all, so that the blood gushed out, and.Tcm cried out. Murder! Murder! andjdown he fell; the poor Dominie ran outat the door crying and wringing his hamls.ijWord flew about that Tom was stickeliiby the Dominie, which made the people:jcome running, fvom several parts of thecountry round about, to see how it wasbut on searching him, they found onlythe empty pudding, which discovered thefraud: Then two men bad to get horses;land ride after the poor Dominie, who|had by this time got two or three milesiaway, and when he saw them comingafter him, crying to stop and come backlagain, he ran the faster, until he couldTun no more, but fell over on the road,ipraying them to let him go, for, if he wastaken back, he was sure to be hanged -Tland would not be persuaded Tom wasialive, until they forced him back and heisaw him, but he would be Tom’s teachermo longer; so Tom’s father had to seek.another master for him.PART II.5. There was a young woman servantito ffom’s father, whom Tom had offended;by some of his tricks, and she, to be upwith Tom again, one night spread a hand,ful of short nettles in his bed, between[ the sheets, which stung his legs and thighs[so much that he was oblige 1 to qtbte his2 bed for some part of the night; for which■'he resolved to be revenged, whenevera proper opportunity offered. It hap-:ipened in a few days after, that she wasSjinvited to a wedding, where the dancing‘land diversion i nduced her to stay allnight:and in coining home in the morning, hermistress set her to wash some clothes.But she being fatigued with her night’s idiverson, and for want of rest, tell fast:asleep with her hands extended in thetub, and standing on her feet, with herbelly leaning on the tub ; Tom perceiv¬ing this, slips her petticoats and smock*over her head letting the sun shine onher bare back-side, which faced the high- iway. Several people passing by, while jshe continued in this posture, some of]them were diverted, and others ashamed Iat the sight; but a poor cadger had the [misfortune to be coming on the road at ithe time, and his horse taking fright[at this unusual sight, threw off the creels,and broke the poor man’s eggs all tosmash ; which so enraged him, that lielashed her buttocks with his whipj^in;such an unmerciful manner, that with thesmart and shame together, she had imtthe least inclination to sleep for tile re¬maining part of the day.6. Tom being grown up to the years.'and age of a man, thought himself wiserand more artful than his father; andthere were several things about the househelikedbetcerthanto work; so he returnedito be a dealer amongst the brutes, a cow-'j tnJt' 4 ^ ]■ f/olla/J^ 'Y)w</v'/HM-j 1£ajk. 4t 'fevTx. 6i^>WaaT oil. - kvtcLk. CX,- u.- Idk, 77 ^ris>UrfyjtnrVL. bU Hz* ^n>'th: J10**&tlv| qjLxaauJi } UJrt&i(av uo'KtlKW Ovw 164 {x% ^fc&<J-jao <^-6 <1 tXa^ttoK. rOVK - I^tjgjvUxii oa*^'XUjU&Vnfy "fc‘ > *’'*gak*ms\r- ~ -*.’. ‘ \( 9 )per of horses and cows, Sec. and evenwet ware amongst the brewers and brandyshops, until he Cowped himself to thetooin baiter; and then his parents wouldi supply him no more. He knew well ids] grandmother had plenty ot money, but• she would give him none, but the old< woman ha ; a good black cow of her own :1 So foi?! went to the fields one evening,i and catches and takes her into an oldf waste house which stood at a distance1 from any other, and there he kept her;i two or three days, giving her meat andii drink when it was dark at night, andmade the old woman believe somebodyhad stolen the cow for their wintersmart, which was grief enough to theold woman, for the ioss of her dearlybeloved cow. However, she employsTom to go to a fair that was near by,j and buy her another j gives him threepounds, which Tom accepts of verythankfully, and promises to bay one aslike the other as possibly he could get.Then he gets a piece of chalk, andbrays it as small as meal, and steeps itli in a little water, and therewith rubs overif the cow’s face and back, which maded her baith brucket and figget. So Tom,li in the morning, takes the cow to acj public-house within a mile of the fair,and left her till the fair was over, andthen-drives'*her home before him : and,as soon as they came home, the cow be¬gan to rout as she used to do, which madethe old woman to rejoice, thinking it washer own black cow, but, when she sawher white face, signed and said, Alas!'thou’ll ne’er be like the kindly brute, myBlack-lady, end yet routs as like her asom ever 1 did hear : But says ’l orn to him-self, ’TiS a mercy you know not what shesays, or ail would be wrong yet. So infwo or three days the old woman putfor: h her braw rigget cow in the morningwith the rest of her neighbour’s cattle, butit came on a sore day of heavy rain, whichwashed away all the white from her faceand back, so that the old woman’s Black-lady came home at night, and her riggetcow went away with the shower, and wasnever heafv! of. But Tom’s father hav¬ing some suspicion, and looking narrowlyinto the cow’s face, found some of thechalk not washed away, and then lie gavepoor Tom a hearty beating, and sent himaway to seek his fortune with a skin full•f sore bones.( 11 )PART III.7* Tom being no’-v turned to his.shifts, considers with himseR how t<y raise1a little more money; so she gets a long.string, as near as lie could gues* to be thedength of his mother, an., into Edumurghthe ^oes, to a wright v.jio was acquainted'with Ids father and mothers fne wright'jiaske.d him how he din ? ,i e answered«bim very softly, he had lost a good dutifulmother last night, and tlitre’s a measureTor her coffin. Tom .vent out and staid■ for some time, and then comes in again,liand tells the wright he did not know what)<to do, for his father had ordered him toqget money from such -a man whom homatm'd, and he was that day go ie out oftown ; the wright rsked him now muchihe wanted ? To which he answered, aguinea and a half might do, or thirty shihdings at the least. So he gave hint thei]guinea and the half. Then 'i om gave him^ strict charges to be out on tiie morrow^against eleven o’clock with the coffin, andline should have his money altogether. Tomf set out tor the ale-house witli the money,n,and lived well while it lasted. Next morn-ning the wright and his two lads went outBwith the coffin, and as they were going( 12 )into the house, Tom’s mother, standingat the door, asketl the master how he did.and where he was going with that tyieCoffin ? He did not know well what tosay, being so surprised to see her alive ^but at last be told her, her son broughtin the measure the day before, and had gota guinea and a half from him, which hesaid was to buy some other necessaries forthe funeral. O the rogue ! said she, hashe played me that? So the wright gothis guinea and a half, and so much for histrouble, and had to take back his coffinwith him again,8. Tom being now short of moneyagain, began to think how he could raisea iresh supply; so he went to the portamongst the shearers, and there he hiredabout thirty of them, and agreed to givethem a whole week’s shearing at tenpencea-day, which was two pence higher thanany had got that year: this made the poor)shearers think he was an honest, generous,and genteel master as ever they got, forihe took them all into an ale-house, and igave them a hearty breakfast, till they;could eat no more. Now, says he, whenjthere is so many of you together, perhaps;from different parts, and unacquainted.with one another, I do not know but** ( IS )there may be some of you honest men, andsome of you rogues; and as you are to lieall in one^barn together, any of you win?has any money, you’ll be surest to give itto me, and I’ll mark it down in my book,with your names, and what I receive,fromeach of you, and you shall have it alt againon Saturday’s night, when you get yourwages. O! very well, goodman, takemine, take mine, every one faster thananother; some gJjye him five, six, sevenjand eight shilling^, even all they hadearned thro’ the harvest, which amountedto near seven pounds sterling. Havinggot all their money, he goes on with them,till about three miles out of the town, andcoming to a great field of standing corn,though somewhat green, yet convenientfor his purpose, as it lay at some ^distancefrom any house or person. So he madethem begin therl, felhng them he wasgoing to order dinnei^for them, and sendIn's own servants to join them. Away hegoes with all the sffeed he could, but takesanother road inta the? town, lest thtiyshould follow' and catch him. Now, whenthe people to whom the corn belonged, sawsuch a band in their field, they coitfd rWifcunderstand the meaning of it; so the far¬mer whose corn it was, went off cryingalways as he ran, to them to stop ^.but( H )they would not, uvtil he began to strikeat them, and they at him, he being in agreat passion, as the corn Was not fullyripe ; at last, by force of argument, andother people coming up to his assistance,the poor shearers were convinced they hadgot the bite, which caused theiti to goaway lamenting their misfortune.In two or three days thereafter, as Tomwas going down the Canongate, he meetsone of his shearers, wbo know him, andkept fast by him, demanding his money,and satisfaction for the rest. Whnht,whisht,’ says tom, ‘and you’ll get yoursandsomethingelse beside.’—So Tom takeshim into the jail, gr.d calls for « bottle ofaie and a dram ; then takes the jailor aside,as if he had been going to borrow themoney from him, and says to the j uior,‘ This man here isa great thief, 1 and twoothers have been in search of him thesethree days, and the other two men havethe warrant with them; so if you keepthis rogue here till I run and bring them,you shall have a guinea in reward.’ ‘ Yes.said the jailor, ‘go and I’ll fix the roguefor you.’ So Tom got clear off, leavingthe poor innocent fellow and the jailorstruggling together, and then sets cfl forEngland directly.( 1-5 )PART. IV.9 Tom having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Nor-thumberland, where he hired himself withan old miser of a farmer; and here hecontinued for several years, performinghis duty in his service very well, thcrjghsometimes playing a roguish bite on thoseabout him. His master had a very naughtycustom that he would allow them no can¬dle at night to see with when at supper.Tom one night sets himself next to hismaster, and as they were all about to fallon, Tom puts his spoon into the heart ofthe dish, where the crow'dy hottest,and claps a spoonful into his master’smouth ; a pox on you for a rogue, criedhis master, for my mouth is burnt: A.pox on you for a mafster, says Tom, foryou keep a house as dark as Purgatory, forI was going to my own mouth with thatsoup and missed th^ way, it being so dark;don’t think, master, that I am such a >Pgfool as to feed you, while T have a mouthof my own. So,- from that night thatTom burnt his master’s mouth with thehot crowdy, they always got a caudle toshew them light at supper, for his master/£( 16 )would feed no more in the dark while Tomwas about the house.10. There was a servant girl in the£.resaid house, who always when shemade the .beds neglected to make Tours,and would have him to do it himself—* Well then/ says Tom, ‘ I have harderwork to do, and I shall do that too.’—So next day, when Toib was in the fielda{ the plow, when he saw his mastercoming from the house towards him, heleft the horses and the plow standing inthe field, and goes away towards hjsmaster, who cried, * What is wrong ? or,is any thing broke with yqu ?’ ‘ No, no,says Tom, but I’m going home to makemy bed, it has not been made these twoweeks, and just now it is about the timethe maid makes all the rest, so I’ll gohome and make mine too.’ No, no;sirrah,’ says his master, ‘go back to yourplow, and Tll ^ause it to be made everynight for you,’ ‘ Then,’ says Toffi, 4 I’llplow two or three furrows in the time. ’11. There was*a butcher came to hismaster’s and bought a fine fat rcalf; soTom laid it on the horse’s qeck, beforethe butcher; and when he was * gone,‘Now,’ says Tom, ‘what will you hold,C 17 )master, but I’ll steal that calf from thebutcher before he goes two miles off?** Why,* says his master, ‘ I’ll hold aguinea you don’t.* ‘ Done,* says Tom,In he goes, and gets a good shoe of hismaster’s, and runs another way acrossthe fields, until he got before the butcher,near to the corner of a hedge, where therewas an open and turning of the way ;here Tom darts himself beliind the hedge,and throws the shoe in the middle of thehigh-way; then up comes the butcher,riding, and his calf behind him : ‘ Hey,*said he to himself, ‘ there’s a good shoe,if I knew how to get .on my calf again,I would light for it: but what signifies onewithout its neighbour ?’ So off he goes,and lets it lie. Tom then slips out,, andtakes up the shoe again, and runs acrossthe fields, until he got in before thebutcher, a,t another open of the hedge,about half a mile distant, and there hethrows out the shoe again, on the middleof the road ; then up comes the butchgr,and seeing ij, says to himself, ‘ Now,shall have a pair of good shoes for the lift¬ing;’ and down he comes, lays the calfon the ground, and tying his horse to thehedge, runs back, thinking to get theotiier she, in which time, Tom whips upthe calf and shoe, and home he comes.I' ( 1Z Jdemanding bis wager, which his mastercould not deny, being to fairly won.—The poor butcher returned back to hishorse, got only his travel for his pains;so missing his calf, he knew not what tosay or do, but thinking it had broke therope from about his feet, and had runinto the fields, the butcher spent that dayin search of it amongst the hedges andditches, and returned to Tom’s master’sall night, intending to go and search^far¬ther for it next day, giving them a tedi¬ous relation how he came to Jose it by acursed pair of shoes, which he believed thedevil had dropped in his way; and howhe had taken the calf and all along withhim, expressing his thankfulness that thedevil was so honest as to spare his oldhorse, when he stole away his calf.Next morning Tom went to work, andmade a fine white face on the calf withchalk and water; then brings it out, andsells it to the butcher, which was gooddiversion to his master and other servants,to see the butcher buy his own calf again.No sooner was he gone with it, than Tomsays, * Now, master, what will you holdbut I’ll steal it from him again, ere hegoes two miles off? ‘ No, no,’ says hismaster, 4 ’ll hold no more bets with you,but I’ll give you a shilling if you do it.’( 19 )‘Done,* says Tom,wit will cost you nomore/ So away he runs a foot throughthe fields, until he came before the butcher,hard by the place where he stole the calffrom him the day before; and here helies behind the hedge, and as the butchercame past, he put his hand on his mouth,and cried, Ba, haw, like a calf. The but¬cher hearing this, swore to himself thatthere was the calf he had lost the day be¬fore ! Down he comes, and throws thecalf on the ground, gets in through thehedge in all haste, thinking he had nomore to do but to take it up J but as hecame in at one part of the hedge, Tomjumps out at another, and gets the calf onhis back ; he then gets in over the hedgeon the other side, and through the fieldshe came safely home, with the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent histime and labour iu vain, running fromhedge to hedge, and hole to hole, seekingwhat was not there to be found. So thebutcher returned to his horse again, andfinding his other calf gone, he concludedit to be done by some invisible spirit aboutthat spot of ground ; and so went homeand raised a bad report on the devil, say¬ing, That he was turned a highwayman,and had taken two calves from him. SoTom washing the white face of the stolen( *> )calf, his mastei* sent the butcher word tocome and buy another calf; which he ac¬cordingly, did a few days after, and Tomsold him the same calf the third time; thentold him the whole affair as it was acted,giving him his money again. So the but¬cher got but fun for his trouble.PART V. vUnfiat!)12. There was an old rich blind wo¬man, who lived hard by, that had a younggirl, her only daughter, and she fell deepin love with Tom, and Tom fell as deepin love with the money, but not with themaid; the old woman bestowed a greatnumber of presents on Tom, and mountedhim like a gentleman, but still he put offthe marriage from time to time, and al¬ways wanted something, which the oldwoman gave the money to purchase forhim, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money, and then she would delaythe marriage no longer. Tom went andtook the old woman and the girl aside,and made his apology as follows ; 4 Dearmother, said he, I am very willing to wedwith my dear Polly, for she appears asC 21 )an angel in mine eyes; but I am sorry,very sorry to acquaint you that I am nota fit match for her;* * What, child, saysthe old woman, ‘ tliere’s not a fitter matchin the world for my Polly: I did not thinkyour country could afford such a cleveryouth as what I hear of you to be; youshall neither want gold nor silver, nor yeta good horse to ride upon, and when I dieyou shall have my all.* * O but,’ says[Tom, ‘ mother, that’s not the matter atall, the stop is this, when I was at homein Scotland, I got a stroke with a horse’sfoot on the bottom of my belly, which hasso quite disabled me below, that I canndtperform a husband’s duty in bed.* Theold woman hearing this clapt her hands,and fell a-crying, ‘ O! if it had been anylimpediment but that, but that, but that,tvofu* that! which gold nor silver cannotpurchase, and yet the poorest people, evencommon beggars, have plenty of it.’—-The old woman and her daughter sattrying and wringing their hands, andTom stood and wept, lest he should get10 more money. * O mother,* saysj’olly, ‘I’ll wed with him nevertheless,. love him so deaily!’ «No, no, youbolish girl, would you throw yourself1 way, to marry a ma’n and die a maid!ou don’t know the end of your creation.( 2-’ )it is the enjoyment of a man in bed, tinmakes women to marry, which is a piesure like Paradise; and if you wed witithis man, you’ll live and die and nev#know it.’ ‘ hoo, huo,’ says Tom, ‘ifhad got money, 1 needed not been thway till now.’ ‘Money, you fool/ sathe old woman, there’s not such a.lhiito be got for money in all England,* Ay,’ says Tom, * there’s a doctorNewcastle, will make me as able as aiother man for ten guineas ’ * Ten gineas,!’ said she, ‘ I’ll give him 50 guineif he will; but here is twelve, and gohim directly, and know first whatcan do, and come again and wed nchild, or she and I will soon die both 1thy sake.’ Tom having now got tweiguineas more of their money, preparfor his journey, and early next moraiset out for Newcastle ; but instead of ging to Newcastle, he came to old Sc»land, and left Polly and her motherthink upon him. In about two weeafter, when he was not like to retu:nor so much as to send them any wo;the old woman and Polly got a horkand came to Newcastle in search of hijland went through all the Doctor’ shoasking it there came a young man tinabout two weeks ago, with a broker( 23 )to r^nd ? Some laughed at them, others■u\ ; ike to kick them out of doors, andsu tney nad to return without getting anyaccount of him.PART VI.13. Now’, after Tom’s return to Scot-[ land, he got a wife, and took a little farmInear Dalkeith, and became a very douseman for many days, following his oid! business the cowping of horses and cows,f feeding of veals for slaughter, and the like.So one day he went to a fair, and boughti a fine cowr fiom an old woman, but Tomjudged by the lowness of the price thatI the cow certainly had some fault. Tomj jgives the wife the other hearty bicker of1 ale, then says he, ‘ Gudewife, the money1 is yours, and the cow is mine, ye maunI bell me ony wee bits of fauts that she lias.*{ * Indeed,’ quoth the wife, ‘ she has naei a faut but ane, and if she had wanted it,1 I wad never a parted wi* her.* 4 Andr1 what’s that, gudewife ?’ said he,4 indeed,*ji said she, 4 the filthy daft beast sucks ayi hersel,* 4 Hute,’ says Tom, 4 If that be all! I’ll soan cure her of that.* 4 O! can yeI do that, ’ said the'wife; rlfT had kend what( .24- )had a don’t, ye wailna gotten her/—‘ A-well,’ says Toni, * I’ll tell you dvhajto do: Tak the cow's price, I gave youjust now, and tye it hard and fast in you;napkin, and give it to me through beneatthe cow’s wame, and I’ll give you th«napkin again over the cow’s back, amI’ll lay my life /or it, that she’ll nevesuck herself in my aught.* * I wat well*said she, ‘ Tse do that, an* there shou*tbe witchcraft in’t.* So Tom no soonergot in thro* below the cow’s wame, thathe looses out the money and puts it ithis pocket, and gave the wife again heinapkin over the cow’s back, accordinglyas he told her, saying, * Now, wife, yoihave your cow, and I my money, ancshe’ll never suck herself in my aught, asI told you.* ‘O dole!’ cried the wife‘is that your cure? Ye’ve cheated me£ye’ve cheated me!FINIS.•4