NEW AND IMPROVED SERIESTHE LIFE OF THECELEBRATED SCOTTISH PATRIOTSIR WM. WALLACECONTAININGAn Account cf Ms Wonderful Exploits, and Ms Battles with,the English, &c., &c.Price One Penny.LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.—:3m Wili.tam W allace, whose memory still continues;o flourish in the annals of Scotland with unfadingglory, was the youngest son of Sir Malcolm Wallacejf Elderslie, near Paisley, in Renfrewshire. Thedate of his birth is unrecorded, but it must have been(previous to the death of Alexander III., king of(Scotland, who met an untimely end, by a fall fromihis horse at Kinghorn, in 1286.Alexander was the last of a succession of princeswho had held the sceptre for nearly 800 years, andleft it in the hands of his grand-daughter, called theMaid of Norway, who, dying in infancy, gave rise toI the famous contest of Baliol and Bruce for the crown.(Both parties having referred to the decision of EdwardI. of England, that ambitious and crafty monarch(unjustly claimed it for himself, and vainly attemptedi to deprive Scotland of her independence. To ouri noble hero it was reserved to be the first to avengeher wrongs, and restore her to ancient splerdour.Though Wallace’s father was possessed of a littleproperty, the energy, the grandeur, and the intre¬pidity of the mind of his son, were formed in theschool of adversity. Leaving his paternal home, hewent to Dundee, and was educated under John Blair,who was afterwards his chaplain, and lived to recordhis daring and unparalleled adventures.The unfortunate battle of Dunbar having led to theabdication of John Baliol, the reigning monarch,Edward filled every part of Scotland with English4LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.officers and soldiers, who insulted the inhabitants, andpreyed upon the vitals of the humbled kingdom.AVallace beheld the oppressors of his countrymenwith horror and indignation, sympathised with indi¬vidual sufferers, and mourned the degradation of hisnative land. The base injustice and treachery ofEdward’s governors became the subject of generalconversation, and the cruelty of his officers and menexasperated the nation to the highest pitch.Wallace was of an incredible strength of body,and had arrived at that period of life when the feel¬ings are strong and ardent, and every pulse beats witha generous glow towards the objects of affection.These frequent conversations, and the outrages of theEnglish at Dundee, where he resided at school, ap¬pear first to have roused his spirit in defence of hiscountry. All places of power and wealth in thekingdom were given to Englishmen; and, amongothers, one Selby had been elevated to the dignityof constable of Dundee. Wallace was either insulted,or considered himself so, by his son, and not being ofa temper to receive any insult with impunity, slewhim with his own dagger, and made his escape to hisuncle’s, at Dunipace in Stirlingshire. After remaininghere a short time, he and his mother returned to El-derslie; but, finding that his father and elder brotherhad been cruellv murdered bv the English at Loch-maben, his indignation was roused, and, panting withrevenge, he meditated retaliations worthy of his coun¬try’s sufferings, and of the injuries which had berefthim of a father and of an only brother. Consideringhimself unsafe beneath his mother’s roof, he went andlived secretly with his paternal uncle, Sir liichardWallace, at Riccarton.While residing with his uncle, he went one day tofish in the Irvine, near Ayr; meanwhile, Lord Percy,with his armed suite, rode past on their way to Glas-LIFE <JF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.gow. Five of the English turned aside, and tauntinglydemanded the fish he had caught. He consentedto allow them part, but they insisted for the whole,and seized them from the boy who carried the fish¬ing-basket. Provoked at their rapacity and insol¬ence, he gave one of them a blow on the head withhis fishing-staff, that brought him to the ground, andwrested the sword from his hand. The rest attacked,hut they found that his individual strength, dexterity,and intrepidity, were superior to their united force.Three of them, by the powerful arm of Wallace,lay weltering in their blood, and the other twoescaped with difficulty, while Wallace rode home intriumph to his uncle upon one of their horses. Per¬suaded that he could not remain here longer in safety,and being provided with money and other necessaries,he set out with the determination of seizing everyopportunity of destroying the enemy, and either de¬liver his country, or fall in the attempt. Firm to hisresolution, he spared neither great nor small that fellin his way. For these heroic actions he w’as outlawedby the English, and compelled, during the inclemencyof the winter of 1297, to live in the woods and for¬ests, where he wandered exposed to all the hardshipsthat it is possible for human nature to endure.These rough blasts of adversity, however, only tendedto brace his nerves, and prepare him for performinggreater achievements.One day, Wallace, ventured into Ayr in disguise,and, sauntering through the town, passed by whenthe steward of Lord Percy was insulting the servantof the sheriff', and insisting that lie should have for hislord what the servant had bought for his master.Wallace interfered, and said that the sheriff was avery good man, and therefore he should have hisdinner. The steward gave Wallace a stroke over theshoulders with his hunting-cane, accompanied with(iLIFE OF Silt WILLIAM WALLACE.the most opprobrious appellation that an English in¬vention could supply. Wallace drew his dirk, andpierced the steward to the heart, leaving the sheriff’sservant to return home with his provisions.The English, who were guarding the town, as¬sembled against Wallace, who, with his sword, dealtdestruction with every blow. The gates having beenbarricaded to prevent his escape, he attempted tojump over the wall at a place adjacent to the sea, butmultitudes of the English rushed upon him, and hissword, which had been so much used that day havingbroken, he was overpowered, taken prisoner, andconfined in the castle, to wait the most excruciatingdeath. He languished in prison, deprived of everyconsolation, and even of the necessaries of life; so thatwhen they were about to bring him forth, want ap¬peared to have terminated his existence. Theythrew him over the wall of the prison ; but he fortu¬nately landed upon a soft draff-dunghill. His nursehaving heard of the melancholy event, hastened, andentreated that she might take away his corpse. Hewas conveyed to her house in the new town of Ayr,where, by remedies and the most unwearied attention,he soon recovered his wonted strength, and, longingto avenge his country’s wrongs, seized a sword, and pro¬ceeded to Riccarton, whither his friends and relativeshastened to congratulate him on his miraculous escape;rally round his standard, and bid defiance to the Eng¬lish arms. Wallace, with a brave little band, wentto shelter in a wood near Louden-hill, until an op¬portunity should present itself of attacking the enemy.A friend, having observed them enter the wood, car¬ried provisions to them, and informed Wallace thatan English squire’s servant had rode past to Ayr, andthat his master, with a party escorting some baggagefrom Carlisle to Ayr, would soon pass that way.Learning that they were ascending the hill, he hast-LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.7Filed to lay his men in ambush, and to prepare fortheir reception. Wallace, perceivino; that Fenwick,who had slain his father and brother, commandedthis party, resolved to be avenged, or fall in the com¬bat. Of the English there were 180, but Wallacehad only 50 men; the former well armed on horse¬back, the latter on foot. Wallace’s soul fired withindignation at the sight of Fenwick, and, rushing uponhim, cut his body in sunder. About 100 of the Eng¬lish were slain, and the rest fled when they beheldthe fate of their leader. Wallace seized the horses,baggage, armour, and money, which proved a veryacceptable supply.He now took bis route towards Argyleshire andthe northern border of Lennox. Wandering about inthe woods, he came near to Gargunnock, where theEnglish were strongly garrisoned, and after havingexamined the strength and situation of the pass, hedetermined to attack it. He accordingly hastenedforward, and, favoured by the darkness of the night,took the place, put the men to the sword, but set thewomen and children at liberty. Among the faithfulfew who had marshalled under his banner, was oneStephen, an Irishman of great strength and courage,to whom Wallace gave the command, while he anda few of his men paid a visit to the town of Perth.Informing Stephen that they had provisions for seve¬ral days, he told him to lurk secretly in the ncigh-! bouring wood of Methven until he returned, or to beprepared for action when he should hear the sound ofhis horn. Matters being thus adjusted, they pro¬ceeded to Perth. Before they could gain admittance,the provost was sent for, who, seeing Wallace, a tall,strong man, asked if they were all Scotsmen, andfrom what part of the country they came. “ Myname is William Malcolm,” said Wallace; “wehave come from Ettrick forest, in the south, to seekaLIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.for better employment, and to see the country.” “ ’mean no harm,” said the provost, “ in asking thes<questions; but so many reports have been circulatedabout one William Wallace, born in the west, whowas killing every Englishman he could find, and see¬ing you, a tall strong man, it is necessary to knowsomething about those we admit into the town.”Denying that he knew anything of Wallace, he andhis men were admitted, and an inn and plenty of pro-,visions provided until employment was found forthem.Wallace often invited the English to drink withhim, in order to ascertain their number and strength^and to obtain other intelligence he could gather. Helamented that he could devise no means to take thetown, which was in possession of the English, as hismen were too few in number and to set it on fire wasonly placing himself and followers in imminent dan¬ger. But ere long, an opportunity was afforded himfor this daring enterprise. There was then one SirJames Butler in the town, a cruel knight, who kept,the strong castle of Kinklevin, residing with his son.Sir John, an under-captain of Gerald Heron ; and areport was spread that Sir James, with his party,,were returning to Kinklevin Castle. Wallace, withhis followers, hastened to Methven-wood, blew hishorn, and his intrepid band were quickly by his side.!Being well armed, they marched to Kinklevin, andlay in ambush in a valley on the banks cf the Tay,meanwhile dispatching spies in different directions,some of whom soon returned, informing them thatfour men had passed, who appeared to be forerunnersof the company. Wallace at length beheld 90 well-armed men on horseback, and prepared to attackthem. The English perceived "Wallace’s intention,and, brandishing their spears, rushed upon them, butthey were boldly repulsed, and several, both men andLIFE OF Silt WILLIAM WALLACE.9horses, were slain. Butler alighted from his horse,and marshalled his men in order to defend themselves.In the fierce contest which ensued, a few of the Scotsfell by the captain’s strong arm, and 60 of the Eng¬lish, with their captain, were killed ; the rest escapedto Kinklevin, and the gate having been opened to re¬ceive them, Wallace, with his men, followed so closethat they entered along with them, seized the castle,shut the gate, and drew the bridge. Having removedall the provisions and necessaries, during five nights,from the castle to Shortwood-shaws, he set it inflames.Sir John Butler having been informed of what hadhappened, commanded all the men of Perth and neigh¬bourhood to arm; and, though they were 1000strong, they approached the wood with tremblinghearts. Sir John arranged his men in six divisions,and having encircled the wood with five of them toprevent escape, he, with 200 followers, entered insearch of Wallace. The Scotch were sore galled bya terrible shower of arrows which the English dis¬charged, one of which slightly wounded Wallace ; but,perceiving the danger in which his men were placed,he changed their position, and, dashing through theopposing ranks, rushed with fury in quest of the Eng¬lish leaders. The English ranks were thinned by thepatriotic band, and Wallace, encountering Sir John,slew him and William Lorn, who had arrived duringthe contest with 300 men. When it became knownthat both commanders were slain, the remainingleaders assembled their troops at the south end of thewood, and held a conference as to what should hedone in the present emergency, while Wallace andhis men rushed out at the north side. The horsesand gold were seized by the victorious Scotch, andthe English, under Sir Gerald Heron, returned toPerth with the news of their defeat. Two days after,10LIFE OF SIB WILLIAM WALLACE.Wallace, with his men, returned and conveyed theirconcealed property from Shortwood to Methven-wood, and then removed to Elcho-park, near Perth.While they remained in this place, Wallace, dis¬guised in a friar’s gown, paid frequent visits toPerth, but some individuals, observing his warlikeappearance, communicated their suspicions to thegovernor, Sir Gerald Heron. The house which hefrequented was beset with the enemy; and being in¬formed of their design, he quickly dressed himself infemale apparel, went and informed the English thatWallace was in a certain room,—they flew to seizetheir supposed prey, while he effected his escape withall possible speed. Two soldiers, suspecting him asbeing rather a strong andfierce-like female, followed; butWallace suddenly turned upon them, drew his sword,and levelled them with the ground. The English,provoked at this disappointment, marched GOO menby the South Inch road, and had not proceeded fartill they beheld the slain bodies of their companions,which confirmed their suspicions of Wallace havingtaken this route. Surrounding the wood, they en¬tered in search of Wallace, accompanied by a blood¬hound to trace his steps. Hemmed in on every side,the hardy few resolved to conquer or die; and thenoble chieftain unsheathing his sword, offeredup a prayer, and led his warriors to the attack.Fifteen of the Scots were slain before they retreatedto the banks of the Tay, where they sought a placeto cross, but many of them having been unable toswim, Wallace again determined to face the foe. Hislittle band, which was only 40 at the commencementof the battle, was now reduced to 16, while theEnglish had been strongly reinforced, so the Scotshad to flee to a place of safety, and were out of sighthnfnro the enemv was able to pursue them. TheLIFE OF Sill WILLIAM WALLACE.11English had once more recourse to their blood-hound,and they were soon in sight of each other. The Scotshad two miles of rising ground to climb before theyreached a place of defence; and the night, which wasfast approaching, filled them with the hope of reach¬ing a place of safety. One Fawdon, who was weariedwith fatigue, declared his inability to proceed ; andas he was formerly suspected of treason, Wallace putan end to his existence, his followers concurring inthe justice of the act. The English were fast gainingupon them, so they dispersed, the mantle of nightprotecting them against the foe, and the blood ofFawdon stopping their hound. On the followingmorning, as Wallace was lamenting the fate of hiscountry, an English leader rode up to him, and de¬manded what he was doing there; but his onlyanswer was the unsheathing of his sword; and theEnglishman fell to rise no more. Wallace mountedhis victim’s horse, rode across the plain, and the roadbeing everywhere beset with the English, who hadwitnessed the deed, he fearlessly dashed through theirranks, slew 20 of them, and made his escape. Ar¬riving on the banks of the Forth, though weariedand bleeding, he plunged into the river, and arrivedat the house of a widow, an old acquaintance. Nextday he sent to some of his friends at Dunipace formoney and other necessaries which he required, andinstantly his uncle delivered them in person. Thepatriotic band now consisted of Kierly, Stephen, thewidow’s two sons, and Wallace, who bent their wayto Sir John Graham’s at Dundaffheath, whose son, abrave youth, volunteered to join them, but Wallacedeclined his services for the present, promising how¬ever to inform him when he had gathered sufficientforce to face the foe.Arriving at his nephew’s at Kilbank, he sent in¬formation to his numerous friends throughout then12LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.country, who speedily flocked around their chieftain’sstandard. While he remained here, he frequently wentin disguise to Lochmaben, where one Clifford, withinsolence and cruelty, bore the chief command. Dur¬ing one of his visits, he was so enraged at seeing thecommander using his authority with the maliciousintent to disgrace his countrymen, that he drew hissword, and slew the usurping tyrant. The enemyassembling to the pursuit, he flew to inform his val¬iant followers, w ho hastened to the nearest thickets topreserve themselves as much as possible from theenemy’s fury. The armies met, and the Scots, deal¬ing destruction on all sides, reduced the English tosuch a degree, that they were about giving way, whenMoreland arrived with reinforcements to their aid.Thus encouraged, the combat was renewed, but More¬land having been slain, his followers gave way onevery side, and fled before the victorious Scots.Scarcely had they enjoyed a moment of congratula¬tion, when the enemy again appeared under thehaughty Graystock, but the Scots, though weariedwith the long contest, remained unshaken, and pre¬pared again for the attack. At this moment youngGraham appeared with an armed retinue to supporthis friends ; the English were repulsed with dreadfulslaughter, and retreated before the thrice victoriousband. After several inconsiderable skirmishes, thelittle army dispersed for the winter, agreeing to re¬pair to Lanark and its neighbourhood, and to assem¬ble at their chieftain’s signal. Wallace repaired toLanark, and was soon married to his lovely bride,who told him of the deceitful arts of Hazelrigg, theEnglish leader, to win her. During the winter Wal¬lace remained disguised, and would often have de¬livered his wife from such an unwelcome visitor asHazelrigg, but prudence caused him to delay the fatalblow.LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.13The time had now arrived when he was to meethis followers ; and, after taking farewell of his youngwife, whom he informed that he had a chosen bandto conduct her to a place of safety, he proceededthrough the plain, and choosing an elevated situation,’ he raised his horn, and was soon surrounded by his; followers. Alarmed at these sudden preparations,Ilazelrigg, with 1000 well-clad warriors, marched inpursuit; but, being disappointed, he returned to thetown, and being informed that the lady to whom hewas paying his addresses, was the lawful wife ofWallace, he repaired to her house, and stained hishands in her innocent blood. The news overwhelmedWallace and his followers with sorrow; but they re¬solved to avenge themselves on their enemies, andthat same night attacked the town in various parts.Wallace having broken open the gates, the Scotsrushed in and made dreadful havoc; Sir John Graham,commander of the second division, entered anotherpart, and committed the dwellings of the English tothe flames. Wallace bathed his sword in Hazelrigg’sblood, while Graham dispatched Horn, the second incommand. The conquerors, having reduced the town,encamped on a neighbouring plain.Alarmed at the success of the patriots, Edwardcollected a numerous army, and repaired to Biggar,in order to give them battle. The Scottish army,now greatly augmented, proceeded to meet the Eng-l lish. They were encamped on a wide extended plain,and Wallace addressing his trusty friends, and paint¬ing the injuries of their ill-fated country in livelycolours, exhorted them to seek redress upon the au¬thor of all their calamities, now before them sur¬rounded by his haughty troops. The battle com¬menced, and both armies fought with great bravery,but the result was the defeat of the English army,the shattered remains of which returned with Edward14LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.to England. Worn out with defeats, and drivenfrom almost every strong post in the kingdom, theEnglish sued for peace, which was concluded at Ru-therglen church in February, 1297 ; but it was ofshort duration, the English being bent upon the con¬quest of Scotland.In June, 1297, the English invited the Scottislinobility and gentry in the western parts, to meetthem for the purpose of friendly conference upon theaffairs of the nation, in some large buildings, calledthe Barns of Ayr. Many of the Scotch gentlemenin the neighbourhood attended, several of whom wereaccused of felony, condemned, and executed. Amongthose who were executed was Sir Roland Crawford,sheriff of Ayr, and uncle to Wallace. Those whoescaped informed Wallace, who immediately assembled50 of his followers, entered Ayr in the night, and setlire to the place when many of the English wereasleep ; and the garrison, issuing forth, were put tothe sword. Wallace and his men instantly seizedthe fort, and then marched to Glasgow, attackedLord Percy, and completely routed his forces. Be¬ing now placed at the head of a considerable army,he inarched to Stirling, and took the castle. Argyleand Lorn, with the adjacent country, were soon in hispossession ; Perth, with the neighbouring places, werealso recovered. Penetrating into Angus and Mearns,he took and demolished the castles of Forfar, Brechin,and Montrose. By an unexpected assault, he carriedDnnnottar, which he garrisoned. When he ap¬proached Aberdeen it was all in flames, the Englishhaving set it on fire, being afraid of his coming.• Learning that the English, with an army of 40,000,among whom were many disaffected Scotchmen, wereapproaching Stirling, Wallace stationed his troops onan advantageous place upon a hill above the monasteryof Cambuskenneth, on the north side of the Forth.LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.15This river has no passable fords at this place, and theonly passage was by a wooden bridge. The Englishsent two Dominican friars to Wallace, to offer a par¬don to him and bis men if they would lay down theirarms. Their terms were, however, degrading andinsulting to the honour and independence of the Scot¬tish nation, and therefore rejected with becoming dis¬dain. “Go, tell your officers,” said Wallace, “thatwe came not here to treat for peace, but prepared forbattle, and are determined to avenge our wrongs, andset our country free from the iron yoke of Edward.Let them but advance, and to their faces we will tellso much.” Incensed at this determined reply, theEnglish exclaimed, “ They are all our own; let usinstantly charge them.” Cressingham, with thegreater part of his army, had crossed the bridge,which, either by the contrivance of workmen, who, alittle before, bad loosened the joints of the beams;or, by the pressure of so many horse, foot, and car¬riages, gave way, and interrupted the march of theEnglish army. Before their ranks were formed, theScots attacked those who had passed, and havingslain their leader, drove the rest back into the river.After this battle, Wallace returned to the besieging ofcastles, and in a short time so changed the fortune ofwar, that there remained no Englishmen in Scotland,except as prisoners. This victory was so importantin its consequences, that the Scots who had desertedto the English submitted to Wallace, and hailed himas the deliverer of his country. Berwick and Rox¬burgh alone resisted, but being deserted by theirgarrison, they soon threw open their gates. Thus, inthe short space of fourteen months after King Johnhad been deposed, and his kingdom subdued, didWallace, with a few brave men, restore the nation toher ancient liberty and independence.The fields lying uncultivated, a famine and a plaguefollowed, whence .a greater number of deaths, it was16LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE..feared, would arise than from the war. To alleviatethese calamities, Wallace ordered all the young mencapable of bearing arms, to meet him on a certain day,when he led them into England, in the hope that theywould acquire health and strength by the exercise;and that by living in the enemy’s country during thewinter, provisions at home would be spared. Noone opposed him when he entered England; and hav¬ing remained there from the 1st of November to the1st of February, refreshing his men with the forageof the enemy, and enriching them with their spoils,he returned home. This expedition increased therenown and authority of Wallace among the people,bnt it excited against him the envy of the nobles; forhis praises appeared to reproach them for not daringto attempt what he, destitute of every advantage offortune, had not only bravely undertaken, but success¬fully accomplished.With an army of 1500 cavalry and 20,000 infantry,Edward marched against Wallace, who, in the mean¬time, was collecting his chosen troops, all of whom hecommanded, upon pain of death, to keep their ranks,to march with gravity, and to attempt nothing with¬out his orders. The veteran and experienced soldiersof Edward had not arrived from France, so perceivingthe order, discipline, and formidable appearance ofthe enemy, he dared not hazard Ins own glory withan undisciplined militia,and therefore wisely retreated.The fame of this bloodless victory obtained over sopowerful a king incensed his enemies, who now re¬ported that he aspired to the crown. The nobles,on hearing this, became indignant, particularly Bruceand Comyn, who, belonging to the blood-royal, de¬termined to undermine the authority of Wallace.Edward having been made aware of their dispositions,raised a large army, and next summer came to Fal¬kirk, about 11 miles from Stirling. The ScottishLIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 17army wasnot far distant, and being 30,000 strong, weresufficiently powerful, if their leaders had been united ;but there weretliree commanders,—John Comyn, JohnStewart, and William Wallace; and when the armywas drawn out in three lines in order of battle, a dis¬pute arose who should lead the first line against theenemy. The one would not yield to the other, andbefore the matter was settled, the English, with theirbanners unfurled, advanced rapidly towards them.Comyn and his men retreated without attempting tofight. Sir - John Stewart and his vassals foughtbravely, and died honourably. Unable to rescueStewart or to withstand the enemy, and the Earl ofCarrick having nearly surrounded him, Wallace re¬treated, and passed the small river Carron, which theenemy dared not pass in his presence. By this dex¬terous manoeuvre, he not only saved his own men,but also those of Stewart who fled to him, and by keep¬ing himself in the rear, cut off several of their pursuers.During the pursuit, while Wallace and Bruce stoodon different sides of the water of Carron, Bruce ad¬dressed him, “I am greatly surprised. Sir William,that you should ever entertain the idea of attaining theScottish crown.” “No,” interrupted Wallace, “mythoughts never soared so high; I only mean to delivermy country from oppression and slavery, and sup¬port a cause which you have abandoned. But pausein time; if you have but the heart, you may win acrown with glory, and wear it with justice. I cando neither; but this I will do, I will live and diea free-born subject.” The conference was suddenlyinterrupted by the approach of a hostile body ofhorse, but it made a deep impression on the mind ofBruce.The number of English present at the engagementis stated at 90,000 men, while the Scottish army didnot amount to 30,000. The loss on both sides was]!! LIFIi OF SIK WIU.IAM WALLACE.very great. Amongst the slain on the Scottish side,none was more sincerely mourned than Sir JohnGraham, who, advancing too far, was surrounded andslain. He was interred on the 22nd of July, 1298,in the churchyard of Falkirk, where a tombstonestill marks his last resting place.Wallace, reflecting upon the conversation which hehad with Bruce, in which he unjustly charged himwith an attempt upon the crown, called an assemblyof the barons and other noblemen in the kingdom atPerth, and there resigned both his important trust asguardian of the kingdom, and his chief command ofthe army. No part of Wallace’s history is moredifficult to trace than after he relinquished his publiccommand. Some suppose that he retired to Franceafter the memorable battle of Roslin Ho sailed,according to report, from Kirkcudbright with 50 ofhis faithful followers, and, in the course of the voy¬age, fell in with Red Rover the pirate, whom hecaptured. Wallace obtained Longueville’s pardon fromthe French king, and soon returned to his native land.Having landed at Montrose with his brave compan¬ions, accompanied by Longueville, who would neverleave him, he was joined by Sir John Ramsay, Ruth-ven, Bisset, and others, all of whom determined todeliver their country, or fall in the vigorous attempt.While in the vicinity of Perth, it happened that sixEnglish servants came with empty carts to conveyhay into the town. Instantly slaying the servants,six of them were arrayed in their upper garments, thecarts were loaded, and as many as possible lodgedthemselves among the hay, and the Fest were placedin ambush. As soon as they entered the town, Wal¬lace slew the porter, and secured an entrance for hismen, who spread destruction among the English, andso terrified the remainder, that the governor, Sir JohnStewart, fled by the opposite gate to the wood ofLIKE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.19Methven. One hundred took refuge in the church,hut were slain. By this successful adventure, Wal¬lace acquired much booty and a military station ofvast importance to future conquests. They now pro¬ceeded towards Fife, and reduced the several townsand castles in that populous county. A party ofthe English, however, took shelter in Lochleven Cas¬tle, and Wallace, determining to dislodge them,selected eighteen of his bravest men, and marchedtowards it during the darkness of the night. Tyinghis sword about his neck, he swam across, returningwith their boat, and conveyed his men in safety tothe castle, which he took, and spared none but thewomen and children.Wallace next marched to Dumbarton in'the night,and called upon a widow he knew, who received himand his men with great kindness, and concealed themin a barn At Wallace’s request, she marked all thedoors where the English were lodged ; and, commenc¬ing with an English captain, who, with his mates,were carousing in a public-house, he set on fire allthe houses where the English were quartered, andfled to Dumbarton cave before day. They next wTentto Roseneath Castle, and having slain more than 80of the English, who were returning from a wedding,they entered with those who escaped, slew everyEnglishman they found, and set fire to the castle.Wallace now began his march south, and cut offRevindale, an English captain, who, with 200 men,was in the vicinity of Kilsyth. In the same routehe burnt the towns of Linlithgow, Dalkeith, and New ¬castle, expelling the English wdierever he came. Thefriends of Wallace now began daily to increase. Therenowned Lauder and Seaton, who had for some timefortified themselves in the Bass, having heard of hissuccess, issued from their retreat, burned North Ber¬wick, and joined Wallace, who proceeded to Peebles,20LIFE OF S1H WILLIAM WALLACE.where lie was reinforced by the brave IFngh Hay,,with dO, and Rutherford, with 60 men. While Wal¬lace was thus engaged in defence of his native coun^try, and rapidly effecting her deliverance, Edward,convinced of the impossibility of conquering Wallaceby the sword, had recourse to other measures. Inthis attempt he employed every means in bis power,nor did he doubt that bribes, and promises, andhonours, which gained the services and submission ofothers, would also, in time, prove successful withWallace. Ht> accordingly courted Wallace with,large and magnificent promises of honour and wealth,places and pension, but all in vain. His constantreply to his friends and the emissaries of Edward:who dared to address him on the subject, was, “Thathe owed his life to, and would willingly lay it down,for his country; that should all Scotchmen but him¬self submit to the kin<i of England, he never would ;^ o _ o 7 7 •nor would he give obedience, or yield allegiance toany power, except to the king of Scotland, his right¬ful sovereign.” The noble virtue of an individual isseverely matched with the base intrigue of a powerfulmonarch. When neither threats nor bribes ; neitherforce nor stratagem, could effect his purpose, Edward-remembered that one expedient yet remained to betried. He calculated that the preferments and moneywhich Wallace rejected with disdain, might operateon the minds of some one of his followers to betrayhim, and he soon found an instrument in the personof Sir John Monteith, whose name only deserves aplace among the basest of the human race. This:traitor conducted a party of Englishmen to Wallace’sretreat at Robroyston, about three miles north-westof Glasgow, and at midnight, while our hero wasasleep,cautiously removtd the bugle from his neck, andconveyed it, along with his arms, through an apertureof the wall; then slowly opened the door, and al-LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.21lowed the soldiers to enter. Wallace awoke with thenoise, but finding himself armless and surrounded bya great number of the enemy, he was induced, througha stratagem on Monteith’s part, to accompany him asa prisoner to Dumbarton, where, he said, he wouldundertake for the safety of his person on the morrow.Next day, however, no Monteith appeared to pre¬vent his being carried from the fortress.Thus the brave and disinterested deliverer of hiscountry was seized, and afterwards conveyed to Lon¬don. As he passed through England, great multi¬tudes of men, women, and children assembled fromall quarters to gaze on the illustrious prisoner. Ar¬riving in London, he was conducted to the house ofWilliam Delect, in Eenchurch Street. The day fol¬lowing, August 23, 1305, he was brought on horse¬back to Westminster, and accused of high treason.Wallace boldly replied, “ That a traitor he never was,nor could be to the king of England.’’ The burningof towns, storming of castles, killing the English, andotheracts of a similar nature, he frankly acknowledged,but these heroic deeds were declared capital crimes ;and though the prisoner had never submitted to thelaws of England, he was tried by them, and unjustlycondemned to be hanged, drawn, and quartered. Hishead was fixed on London Eridge, and the fourquarters of his body were placed on the gates of theprincipal cities of his native country.It is much to be regretted, that we have not beenfavoured with an account of Wallace’s behaviour dur¬ing his trial, and on the scaffold. From the time hewas taken prisoner, till his death, he was entirely inthe hands of the English, consequently no ScotchmanLTFR 01'' SIK WILLIAM WALLACE.'Sihad an opportunity of recordfng his last sayings; andit could scarcely be expected that his enemies woulddo justice to his memory, nor to his conduct, whenenduring those torments which proclaim the cruel andungenerous spirit of Edward to succeeding ages.Few princes have had such a favourable opportunityof immortalizing their fame, by treating kindly, orliberating, an illustrious captive; but although Edwardsecured the death of Wallace, Scotland was not de¬serted.Tyranny usually defeats its purposes. The bar¬barous manner in which Wallace was treated, andthe fixing of his divided body to the city gates of thecountry for which he had done so much, roused everyspark of Scottish valour and independence; exasper¬ated the whole nation against Edward, animated themto rally round the standard of Robert Bruce; toavenge the death of Wallace ; to shake off the tyrant’syoke, and to place the rightful sovereign on the Scottishthrone. (See Life of Robert Bruce, No. 37 of thescries.)The writer of a more extended history says—“ Itmay be attributed to the partiality of a Scottish pen,but the candid reader is left to judge, if any of theheroes of antiquity can be compared to Wallace.Compare their beginning, progress, and achievements,with those of our Scottish warrior: Alexander go¬verned the warlike kingdom of Macedon; soon hadall Greece under his command : and when he over¬came the Persians, he only vanquished women andeunuchs. Ctesar had to encounter Romans; but liehad Romans to lead against them, and a veteran andwell-disciplined army, against an indolent and jarringsenate, a voluptuous and effeminate youth, who, in¬stead of being inured to the sword, durst not look atLIFE OF SI£t WILLIAM WALLACE. 23lie point of a spear, lest it should fill them with ter-■or, and disfigure their faces. In fine, both theseiernes had men and money ; but Wallace bad neitherpne nor the other. The one was a king, the other awealthy citizen of Rome, and. one of the first rank.’Vallace was only a private gentleman, the second sonf a poor Scotch laird; he had martial England andsolitical Edward to encounter, and only a few of theobles and. people to support him. Nor did eitherf these approach to his aid, until, by the powerf his own arm, and by the number and power of biseroic actions, he constrained them to conclude, thatnder his conduct, they would prove invincible. And1; is added, that the purity of their intentions, thejbjects for which they contended, and the meansinployed to prosecute their schemes, were not moreoble and disinterested, than those that gave nerve) the arm, and motion to the soul, of the great SirWilliam Wallace."A poet of that age has expressed his own, and theclings of the nation, upon the sad event of his death,i the following lines :—Envious Death, who ruins all.Hath wrought the sad lamented fallOf Wallace ; and no more remainsOf him, than what an urn contains.We ashes for our hero have;He for his armour a cold grave.He left the earth too low a state,And by his acts o’ercame his fate,His soul—death had not power to kill;His noble deeds the world fill04 LIFE OF Sill WILLIAM WALL \CE.With lasting trophies.of his name.Oh !' hadst tliou lov’d virtue or fame,Thou couTfst not’ have exulted so,Over a brave l^etra^ed dead foe,:Edward! nor-^piih/those.limbs exposedTo public'shaiftypiit-'to be closed^As relics in a holy shrine :But iipp’ jfh^iil'fatny is thine**-’■' 'Ills end* crowns him. with glorious ha} s,And stains the brightest of thy praise.