COMICAL TRICKSWITH ASELECTION OF ANECDOTES; ,i .SCOTLAND ^ JGLAS(?0lW?o'r'PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOM,This Thomas Black, vulgarly calledLothian Tom, because he was of thatcountry, was born about four miles fromEdinburgh; his father being a wealthyfarmer, gave him a good education, whichhe was very awkward in receiving, being avery wild mischievous boy.When he was about ten years of age, hewas almost killed by the stroke of a horse’sfoot, which his father had who had a trick ofkicking at every person that came behindhim. But when Tom got heal of the dread¬ful wound, whereof many thought he wouldhave died, to be even with the horse, he getsa clog, or piece of tree which was full ofwooden pins, such a thing as the shoe makersuse to soften their leather on, and with a ropehe tied it to the couple-bauk in the stabledirectly opposite to the horse’s tail, then getsI3on the bank, and gives it a swing, so that thepikes in the end of it, came with full driveagainst the horse’s backside, which madeI him fling, and the more he flung and struckat it, it rebounded back, and struck himI again; the battlQ lasted with great fury fora long time, which was good fun for Tom,j; until his father hearing some noise in thei stable, came to know the matter, and wasi surprised to see the poor animal tanning hisown hide, with his legs all cut and bloody!he cut the rope and the battle was ended;Ibut the poor horse would never afterwardskick at any thing that came behind him.i It happened one day that Tom went a fish-Jing, and brought home a few small fish,jlwhich his grandmother’s cat snapt up in thedark. So Tom to have justice of the cat forso doing, catches her, and put her into a littletub, or cog, then sets her adrift in a smallilmill-dam, ordering her to go a fishing forisherself; then set two or three dogs upon her,and a most terrible sea fight ensued, as everwas seen on fresh water; for if any of thedogs, when attempting to board her, set up>;heir noses, baudrins came flying to thatdace, to repulse them with her claws; thenrhe vessel was like to be overset by the weight>f herself, so she had to flee to the other, andjinding the same there from thence to theaiddle, where she sat mewing always turn-4ing herself about, combing their noses wiher foot. The old woman being informof the dangerous situation of her dearly 1loved cat, came running with a long poll 1beat off the dogs and haul her ashore. Whtnow, says Tom, if you be.going to take p; j<with my enemies, you shall have part of th |jreward; then gives the old woman suchfcpush that she tumbled into the dam ovihead and ears, beside her beloved cat, aJwould undoubtedly have perished in the wat s;had not one of the people who was there loo i;ing at the diversion, come to her relief.After this Tom was sent to school to ke;his hand out of an ill turn; and having an ccanker’d, crab-witted fellow for hisdominthey were always at variance; for if Tchad got his whips, which he often deservehe was sure to be revenged upon his mastagain for it. So Tom perceived his mast ihad a close-stool in a little closet within tschool, where he went and eased hims.when need was: Tom gets a penny-wonof gun-powder, and sprinkled it on tground directly before the seat, and layst ,little of it^along in a train to the firesic jthen perceiving when his master went kit, and as he was loosing down his breedsets fire to the train, which blew it all abthis master’s backside, which scorched hjterribly, besides the fright, for which T.| -  —  was severely vvhipt Yet, in a little after,he began to study revenge on his master.So it happened one day as Tom was inthe master’s house, his wife was stooping intoa big meal-barrel, to bring out some meal;then he takes her hy the feet, and coups herup into the barrel with her head down andher bare backside uppermost; then runs intothe school, crying O master, master! thede’il’s looking out o’ your meal stand; wi’ afat face and a black ill-farr’d mouth; yon’sjust Auld Nick if he be living. So themaster ran out with all speed he could, forto see what it was; and found it to be hisown wife, speechless, and almost smotheredto death; but as she could not tell who did it,Tom got clear off: yet he wras not satisfiedwithout some more revenge on the old fellow :and knowing his master had a fashion, whenhe was going to whip the boys if they wouldnot loose their breeches willingly, he drewhis knife and cut them threw the waistbandbehind: So Tom goes to a butcher, andgets a raw pudding, and fills it with bloodand wrater, and puts it within the waistbandof his breeches, then goes to the school nextday, and as his master was sitting with hisback to the fire, Tom lights a piece of paper,and sets his wig in a low, which burnt forsome time unperceived, until the flames camefizzing about his ears; he first put out theflames b} tramping1 on the wig, and being|informed that Tom did it, flies to him in a|rage, ordering him to loose his breeches, but|Tom told him he was never so mad.—Thenlhe drew his knife, whips poor Tom over his|knee, and with a great struggle cuts the|waistband of his breeches; but thro’ puddingand all, so that the blood gushed out, andTom cried out Murder ! Murder! Murder!and down he fell.The poor Dominie ran out of the schoolcrying and wringing his hands. Word flewabout that he was sticked by the Dominie,which made the people come running fromseveral parts of the country round about tosee how it was: but upon searching him,they found the empty pudding, which dis¬covered all the fraud. Then two men hadto get horses and ride after the poor Dominie,who had by this time got two or three milesaway; and when he saw them riding afterhim crying to stop and come back again,he ran the faster until he could run no more,but fell down on the road, and prayed themto let him go; for, if he was taken back, hewas sure to be hanged: and would not bepersuaded that Tom was alive, until theyforced him back, and he saw him. But hewould be Tom’s teacher no longer; so Tom’sfather had to seek another master for him.7PART II.a young woman, servant towhom Tom had offended byi'llThere wasTom’s father,some of his tricks, and she, to be up with1 Tom again, one night spread a handful ofshort nettles in his bed, between the sheetswhich stung his legs and thighs so much,that he was obliged to quit his bed for somepart of the night; for such he resolved to berevenged, whenever a proper opportunityoffered. It happened in a few days after,that she was invited to a wedding, where thedancing and diversions induced her to stayall night, and on coming home in the morn¬ing, she fell a washing some clothes. Butbeing fatigued with her night’s diversion andfor want of rest, fell fast asleep with her handsextended in the tub, and standing on her feet,H with her belly leaning on the tub; Tom per¬ceiving this, slips her petticoat and smokeover her head, facing the highway; severali people passing by, while she continued inthis posture, some of them were diverted with• the sight, and others were ashamed at it;(but a poor cadger had the misfortune to becoming that way at the time, and his horsetaking fright at this unusual sight threw oflis creels, and broke the poor man’s eggs allIto smash; which so enraged him that helashed her buttocks with his whip, in suclilan unmerciful manner, that with the smartiand shame together, she had not the least|inclination to sleep for the remaining part otthe day.Tom being grown up to years and age ofiman, thought himself wiser and slyer than]his father: and there were several thingsabout the house which he liked better thanto work; so he turned to be a dealer amongstbrutes, a cowper of horses and cows, &c.,and even wet ware, amongst the brewersand brandy shops, until he cowped himselfto the toom halter, and then his parents wouldsupply him no more. He knew his grand¬mother had plenty of money, but she wouldOfive him none; but the old woman had a *rood black cow of her own, which Tom went fio the fields one evening and catches, and <cakes her to an old waste house which stood I:at a distance from any other, and there he akept her two or three days, giving her meat fand drink at night when it was dark, and tmade the old woman believe somebody had .stolen the cow for their winter’s mart, whichwas grief enough to the old woman, for theloss of her cow. However she employs Tom sto go to a fair that was near by, and buy her:another; she gives him three pounds whichrTom accepts of very thankfully, and pro-jfmises to buy her one as like the other as a9possibly he could get; then he takes a piece;bf chalk, and brays it as small as meal, andSteeps it in a little water, and therewith rubsyver the cows face and back, which madeher baith brucket and rigget. So Tom infehe morning, takes the cow to a public housewvithin a little of the fair, and left her till thefair was over, and then drives her home be-llore him; and as soon as they came home,fthe cow began to rout as it used to do, whichtmade the old woman to rejoice, thinking itwas her own cow but when she saw herwhite, sighed and said, Alas ! thou’ll never(be like the kindly brute my Black Lady,und yet ye rout as like her as ony ever I didliear. But says Tom to himself, ’tis amercy►you know not what she says, or all would bewrong yet. So in two or three days the oldwoman put forth her bra’ rigget cow in thejnorning with the rest of her neighbour’sh cattle, but it came on a sore day of heavy| 'ain, which washed away all the white fromier face and back; so the old woman’s BlackLady came home at night, and her riggethow went away with the shower, and was: lever heard of. But Tom’s father having• ;ome suspicion, and looking narrowly intoi he cow’s face, found some of the chalk notwashed away and then he gave poor Tom a. aearty beating, and sent him away to seekids fortune with a skin full of sore bones.10PART III.Tom being now turned to his own shifts,!considered with himself how to raise a littleimore money; and so gets a string as nearias he could guess to be the length of hisimother, and to Edinburgh he goes, to awright who was acquainted with his fatherand mother. The wright asked him how hedid ; he answered him, very soberly, he had ilost a good dutiful mother last night, andtherefe a measure for the coffin. Tom went;out and staid for some time, and then comes iin again, and tells the wright he did not rknow what to do, for his father had ordered fhim to get money from such a man, whom r:he named, and he that day was gone out oftown.—The wright asked him how much he :■wanted ? To which he answered a guinea iand a half. Then Tom gave him strictorders to be out next day against eleven io’clock with the coffin, and he should get his i;money altogether. So Tom set off to an ale¬house with the money, and lived well whileit lasted. Next morning the wright and his itwo lads went out with the coffin; and asthey were going into the house they metTom’s mother, who asked the master howhe did, and where he was going with thatline coffin ? not knowing well what to say,11being surprised to see her alive, at last hetold her, that her son brought in the measurethe day before, and had got a guinea and ahalf from him, with which he said he was tobuy some necessaries for the funeral. O therogue! said she, has he play’d me that?So the wright got his lent money, and somuch for his trouble, and had to take backhis coffin with him again.Tom being short of money, began to thinkhow he could raise a fresh supply; so he wentto the port among the shearers, and there hehired about thirty of them, and agreed togive them a whole week’s shearing at ten-pence a-day which was two-pence higher thanany had got that year; this made the poorshearers think he was a very honest generousand genteel master, as ever they met with;for he took them all into an ale-house, andgave them a hearty breakfast. Now saysTom when there is so many of you together,and perhaps from very different parts, andbeing unacquainted with one another I donot know but there may be some of youhonest men and some of you rogues; and asyou are all to lie in one barn together, anyf you who has got money, you will be surestgive it to me and I’ll mark it down iny book, with your names, and what I re-eive from each of you, and you shall haveit all again on Saturday night when you12receive your wages. O! very well good-man, there’s mine, take mine said every onefester than another. Somesix, seven and eightgavehim five.hillings even all thatthey had earn’d thro’ the harvest, whichamounted to near seven pounds sterling.So Tom having got all their money, he goeson with them till about three miles out oftown, and coming to a field of standing corntho’ somewhat green, yet convenient for hispurpose, as it lay at some distance from anyhouse; so he made them begin work there,telling them he was going to order dinnerfor them, and send his own servants to jointhem. Then he sets oflf with all the speedhe could, but takes another road into thetown lest they should follow and catch him.Now when the people to whom the corn be¬longed, saw such a band in their field theycould not understand the meaning of it: sothe farmer whose corn it was, went of cryingalways as he ran to them, to stop; but theywould not, until he began to strike at themand they at him, he being in a great passion,as the corn was not fully ripe; at last, byforce of argument, and other people comingup to them the poor shearers were convincedthey had got the bite, which caused them tcgo away sore lamenting there misfortune.Two or three days thereafter, as Tom wasgoing down Canongate in Edinburgh, he13meets one of his shearers, who knew andkept fast by him, demanding1 back hismoney, and also satisfaction for the rest.Whisht, whisht, says Tom and you’ll getyours and something else beside. So Tomtakes him into the jail, and calls for a bottleof ale and a dram, then takes the jailor aside,as if he had been going to borrow some moneyfrom him; and says to the jailor, this manis a great theif, I and other two have beenin search of him these three days, and the-other two men have the warrant with them;so if you keep this rogue here till I run andbring them you shall have a guinea in re¬ward. Yes, says the jailor, go and I’llsecure the rogue for you. So Tom got off,leaving the poor innocent fellow and the jailorstruggling together, and then sets out forEngland directly.PART IV.Tom having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Northum¬berland where he hired himself to an oldmiser of a farmer, where he continued forseveral years, performing his duty in hisservice very well, tho’ sometimes playingtricks on those about him ; but hL masterhad a naughty custom, he would allow14them no candle at night, to see with whenat supper. So Tom one night sets himselfnext his master, and as they were all aboutto fall on, Tom puts his spoon into the heartof the dish, where the crowdy was hottest,and claps a spoonful into his master’s mouth.A pox on you for a rogue, cried his master,for my mouth is all burnt. A pox on youfor a master, says Tom, for you keep a houseas dark as Purgatory, for I was going tomy mouth with the soup, and missed the way,it being so dark, don’t think master, that 1am such a big fool as to feed you while I havea mouth of my own. So from that nightthat Tom burnt his master’s mouth with thehot crowdy, they always got a candle to showthem light at supper, for his master wouldfeed no more in the dark while Tom waspresent.There was a servant girl in the house,who always when she made the beds, neglect¬ed to make Tom’s, and would have him do ithimself. Well then, says Tom, I haveharder work to do, and I shall do that too.So next day when Tom was at the plough,lie saw his master coming from the house to¬wards him, he left the horses and the ploughstanding in the field, and goes away towardshis master. Who cried, what is wrong ? oris there any thing broke with you ? No,no. says Tom, but I am g'oing home to15make my bed, it has not been made thesetwo weeks, and now it is about the time themaid makes all the rest, so I’ll go and makemine too. No, no, says his master, go toyour plough, and I’ll cause it to be madeevery night. Then, says Tom, I’ll ploughtwo or three furrows more in the time, soTom gained his end.One day a butcher came and bought a finefat calf from Tom’s master, and Tom laidit on the horse’s neck, before the butcher:when he was gone; Now, says Tom, whatwill you hold master but I’ll steal the calffrom the butcher before he goes two milesoff? Says his master, I’ll hold a guineayou don’t. Done, says Tom. Into thehouse he goes, and takes a good shoe of hismaster’s and runs another way across a field,till he got before the butcher, near the cornerof a hedge, where there was an open andturning of the way; here Tom places him¬self behind the hedge, and throws the shoeinto the middle of the highway; so, whenthe butcher came up riding, with his calfbefore him, Hey, said he toliimself, there’sa good shoe! if I knew how to get on mycalf again, 1 would light for it, but whatsignifies one shoe without its neighbour ? Soon he rides and lets it lie. Tom then slipsout and takes up the shoe, and runs acrossthe fields until he got before the butcher, at16another open of a hedge, about half a miledistant, and throws out the shoe again onthe middle of the road; then up comes thebutcher, and seeing it, says to himself; nowI shall have a pair of good shoes for the lift¬ing ; and down he comes, lays the calf onthe ground, and tying his horse to the hedge,runs back thinking to get the other shoe, inwhich time, Tom whips up the calf and shoe,and home he comes demanding his wager,which his master could not refuse, being sofairly won. The poor butcher not findingthe shoe, came back to his horse, and miss¬ing the calf, knew not what to do; butthinking it had broke the rope from aboutits feet, and had run into the fields, thebutcher spent the day in search of it,amongst the hedges and ditches, and re¬turned to Tom’s master’s at night intendingto go in search again for it next day; andgave them a tedious relation how he came toloose it by a cursed pair of shoes, which hebelieved the devil had dropped in his way,and taken the calf and shoes along with him;but he was thankful he had left his old horseto carry him home. Next morning Tomset to work, and makes a fine white face onthe calf with chalk and water : then bringsit out and sells it to the butcher; which wasgood diversion to his master and other ser¬vants, to see the butcher buy his own calfL7a^ain. No sooner was he gone with it, but1 om says, now master, what will you holdbut I’ll steal it from him again ere he goestwo miles off? No no, says his master, I’llhold no more bets with you; but I’ll giveyou a shilling if you do it. Done, says Tom,it shall cost you no more; and away he runsthrough the fields, until he came before thebutcher, hard by the place where he stole thecalf from him the day before; and there helies down behind the hedge, and as thebutcher came past, he put his hand on hismouth and cries baw, baw, like a calf. Thebutcher hearing this, swears to himself thatthere was the calf he had lost the day before:down he comes, and throws the calf on theground, gets thro’ the hedge in all haste,thinking he had no more to do but to take itup; but as he came in at one part of thehedge, Tom jumped out at another, and getsthe calf on his back; then goes over thehedge on the other side, and thro’ the fieldshe came safely home, with the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent his timeand labour in vain, running from hedge tohedge, and hole to hole, seeking the calf.So the butcher returning to his horse again,and finding his other calf gone, he concludedthat it was done by some invisible spirit,about that spot of ground; and so went homelamenting the loss of his calf. When Tomlbgot home he washed the white face oh' thestolen calf, and his master sent the butcherword to come and buy another calf, whichhe accordingly did in a few days after, andTom sold him the same calf a third time,and then told him the whole affair as it wasacted, giving him his money again. So thebutcher got fun for his trouble.PART V.There was an old rich blind woman, wholived hard by, that had a young girl, herisrrly daughter, who fell deep in love withTom, and he fell as deep in love with themoney, but not with the maid. The oldwoman gave Tom many presents, andmounted him like a gentleman; but heused every method to put off the marriage,pretended he still wanted something, whichthe old woman gave the money to purchasefor him, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money and then she would delay themarriage no longer. Tom then took the oldwoman and girl aside, and made the follow¬ing apology: Madam, said he, I am verywilling to wed with my dear Polly, for sheappears as an angel in my eyes, but I amsorry, very sorry to acquaint you, that I amnot a fit match for her. What, child, saysi9the old woman, there is not a fitter match inI the whole world for my Polly, I did not thin k!your country could afford such a clever youl has what I hear of you to be, you shall neitherwant gold nor silver, nor a good horse toi1 ride upon, and when I die, you shall ha ve| my all.O but, says Tom; Madam, that’s notthe thing, the stop is this: When I was inScotland, I got a stroke from a horse’s foot,on the bottom of the belly, which has quitedisabled me below, that I cannot perform ahusband’s duty in bed. Then the old womanclapt her hands and fell a crying, O ! if ithad been any impediment but that, but that,but that wofu’ that! which gold and silvercannot purchase, and yet the poorest peoplethat is common beggars have plenty of it.The old wife and her daughter sat cryingand wringing their hands, and l oin stoodand wept lest he should get no more money,0, said Polly, mother, I’ll wed him never¬theless, I love him so dearly ! No you fool¬ish girl, said her mother, would you marry aman and die a maid ? You don’t know theend of your creation ; it is the enjoyment ofa man in bed that makes women to marry,which is a pleasure like Paradise, and if youwed this man you will live and die, and neverfeel it Hoo, Hoo, says Tom, if I had gotmoney I needed not been this way till now.20Money you fool, said the old woman, there’snot such a thing to be got for money in allEngland. Ay, says l orn there’s a doctorin Newcastle, will make me as able as anyother man for ten guineas. Ten guineas,said she, I’ll give him fifty guineas if he will,But here is twelve and go to him directly,and see what he can do, and then come againand wed my child or she and I will both diefor thy sake. Tom having now got twelveguineas more of their money, got all thingsready, and early next morning set out forNewcastle, but instead of going there hecame to old Scotland, and left Polly andher mother to think upon him. In abouttwo weeks thereafter, when he was not liketo return, nor so much as any word fromhim, the old woman and Polly got a horse,and came to Newcastle in search of him,went thro’ all the doctors’ shops, asking ifthere came a young man there, about twoweeks ago, with a broken to mend ?Some laughed at her, other’s were like tokick her out of doors, so they had to returnwithout getting any further intelligence ofhim.Now after Tom’s return to Scotland, hegot a wife, and took a little farm near Dal¬keith, and became a very douse man, formany years, following his old business thecouping horses and cows, and feeding veals21for the slaughter, and the like. He wentone day to a fair and bought a fine cow froman old woman; but Tom judged from thelowness of the price, that the cow had certain¬ly some very great faults. Tom gives thewife the other hearty bicker of ale, then sayshe gudewife the money is yours and the cowis mine, you maun tell me ony wee faults ithas, Indeed, says the goodwife, she has nafaut but ane, and if she wanted it, I wadnever a parted wi’ her. And what’s thatgudewife, said he. Indeed said she, thefilthy daft beast sucks ay hersel’. But saysTom if that be all, I’ll soon cure her ofthat. O ! can you do’t, said she, if I hadkent what wad don’t I wadna sold her. A-well, says Tom, I’ll tell you what to do, tak’the price I gave you just now, and tie it hardand fast in your napkin, and give it to me,through beneath the cow’s wame, and I’llgive you the napkin again o’er the cow’sback, and I’ll lay my life for it, that she’llnever suck hersel’ in my aught I wat wellsaid she I’se do that, an’ there should bewitchcraft in’t. So Tom got it thro'below the cow’s wame, he takes out hismoney, and gave the wife her napkin overthe cow’s back, as he promised, saying,Now, wife, you have your cow and I mymoney, and she will never suck herself inmy aught, as I told you. O dole ! dole!22cried the wife, is that your cure? you’recheated me, youVe cheated me.Tom being- very scarce of money one timewhen he had his rent to pay, and tho’ he waswell acquainted with the butchers in Edin¬burgh, and tried several of them, yet none ofthem would lend him as much, he was knownto be such a noted sharper. So Tom con¬trived a clever trick, to give them all thebite in general, who thus refused him ; in hecomes next day, (for they had all heard ofthe fine calf he was feeding,) and tells oneof the butcher’s who dealt with him that hewas going to sell the calf he had at home.Well said the butcher, and what will youhave for it ? Just thirty-five shillings, saysTom. No, says the butcher, but by whatI hear of it I’ll give you thirty, Na, saysTom you must remember, that it is not theprice of it, but you may give me twentyshillings just now and send out your lad to¬morrow, and we’ll perhaps agree about it.Thus Tom went through ten of them in oneday, and got twenty shillings from each ofthem, and kept his speech against the law,for whatever they offered him for his calf hetold them to remember, that was not to bethe price of it, but give me twenty shillingsjust now and send out your lad to-morrowand perhaps we will agree, was all that pass¬ed. So Tom went home with his ten pounds23and paid his rent Early next morning thefleshers came to Tom’s house for the calf,and every one called for his calf, hut Tomhad only one to serve them all. Now, saysTom, whoever will give most, and speediestshall have it, 1 will put it to a roup. What,said one of them, my master bought it yes¬terday. Then, said Tom, you would he a| great tool to buy it to-day, for it -is fashiousto lead and heavy to carry.ANECDOTES.MARCH OF INTELLECT.i Two country carters, passing the entranceto the Arcade, Argyll street, Glasgow, ob-: served painted on the wall, “No Dogs toi enter here.” “No Dogs to enter here!”exclaimed one of them, “I’m sure there’snae iise for that there.” “ What way,Jock,” replied the other. “’Cause dogscanna read signs,” said he. “Ha, ha,Jock, ye’re may be wrang, I’se warran ye; gentle folk’s dogs ’ill ken’t brawley, forthere’s schools, noo, whar they learn thedumb baith to read an’ speak. ”24HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through acertain town, noticed a Sign-board above anentry, with the following inscription :Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades,Jellies, Capped Biscuits, and all sorts ofConfectionary Goods, sold down this entry,read it as follows :—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids,Jades, Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts ofConfusionary Goods, sold down this entry.ADDITION.A farmer’s Son, who had been some timeat the university, coming home to visit hisfather and mother; and being one nightwith the old folks at supper, on a couple of ifowls, he told them, that by the rules of ilogic and arithmetic, he could prove these ;two fowls to be three.—u Well, let us hear,”said the old man; “ Why this,” said thescholar, “ is one, and this,” continued he, !“is two, two and one, you know make three.”—“ Since ye hae made it out sae weel,”answered the old man, “your mother shall:hae the first fowl, I’ll hae the second, and,the third you may keep to yoursell.”FINIS.