THEHISTORYO FWHITTING TON,WHO WAS AFTERWARDSLORD MAYOR OF LONDON,AND HISC A T.Turn again Whittington,“ Lord Mayor of Great London”STIRLING:PRINTED BY C RANDALL*iSow( 2 )_. jTHE HISTORYi• .1O FWHITTINGTON. ;rVICK WHITTINGTON was a very,f little boy when his father and motherdied ; fo Ihtle indeed, that he never knew them,nor the place where he was born. He ftroiledabout the country as ragged as a colt, till he metwith a waggoner who. was going to London,and who gave him leave to walk all the wayby the fide of his waggon, without payingany thing for his paffagc ; which obliged lit¬tle Whittington very much, as he wanted tofee London fadiy : for he had heard that theflreets were paved with gold ; and he was wil¬ling to get a bufhel of it ; but how great washis difappointment, poor boy ! when he fawthe ftreets covered with dirt, indead of gold,and found himfelf in a flrange place, without'a friend, without food, and without money.Though-C 3 )Though the waggoner was. fo charitable asiio let him walk up by the fide of the waggonfor nothing, he took care not to know himwfhen he came to town, and the poor boy was,n a little time, fo cold and fo hungry, thathe wifhed himfelf in a good kitchen, and by;a warm fire in the country.In this diftrefs he afked charity of feveralpeople, and one of them aid him “ Go workr4 for an idle rogue.”—u That ! will,” fays'Whittington, “ with all my heart : I will“ work for you, if you will let me.”The man who thought this favoured of witand impertinence, (tho’ the poor lad intend¬ed only to fliew his readinefs to work) gavehim a blow with a flick, which broke his head,fo that the blood ran down. In this fituationand fainting for want of food, he laid himfeffdown at the door of one Mr Fitzwarren, a mer¬chant, where the cook faw him, and being an.ill-natured huffey, ordered him to go about hisbufmefs, or fhe would feald him. ^t this timeMr Fitzwarren came from the Exchange, andbegan alfo to fcold .at the poor boy, biddinghim to go to work.Whittington anfwered, That he fhould be( 4 )glad to work, if any body would employ him,and that he fhould be able if he could get fomevictuals to eat; for he had had nothing forthree days, and he was a poor country boy,and knew no body, and no body would em¬ploy him.He then endeavoured to get up, but he wasfo very weak, that he fell down again, whichexcited fo much compaffion in the merchant,that he ordered the fervants to take him in,and give him feme meat and drink, and let himhelp the cook to do any dirty work, that ftiehad to fet him about. People are too apt toreproach thofe who beg, with being able ; butgive themfelves no concern to put them in away of getting bufinefs to do. or coniideringwhether they are able to do it; which is notcharity.— T'hirih of this jc affluent,jltui ivhtn the overplus of your fortunes dijlurbTour minds, think haiv Utile fops the lajh ofpenuryAnd males the nuretched happy !T remember a circumfi ance of this fort, whichSir William Thomplon told my father withtears in his eyes, and it is lo affecting, that Iihali never forget it.S105 YrC 5 )STORYO FSIR WILLIAM THOMPSON.“ Whin Sir William was in the plantationabroad, one of his friends told him, he hadjan indentured fervant, whom he had juftbought, that was his countryman, and a iuftyman ; but he is fo idle, fays he. that I cannot,get him to work. Aye, fays Sir William,let me fee him Accordingly they walked outtogether, and found the man fitting on a heapoi {tones. Upon this, Sir William, after en*quiring about his country, alked why he didnot go out to work ?—l am not able, anfweredthe man—Not able! fays Sir William, 1 amMure you look very well : give him a fewftripes. Upon this, the Planter (truck himfeveral times, but the poor men iiili kept Iliaeat.c- Ihey then left him, to look over the-plantatioh, exclaiming againit his obftinacy,all the way they wen" ;—but how furprizedwere they, on their return, to find the poorman fallen oft the place where he had beenfitting, and dead ! The cruelty fays Sir Wifiham, of my ordering the poor man to be beatenwhile in. the agonies oi death, lies always nextmy( 6 )my heart. It is what I fnall never forget* andwill-for ever prevent my judging ralhly ofpeople who appear in diftrefs. How do weknow what our own children may come to l \The Lord have mercy upon the poor." and de- ;fend them from the Proud, the Inconfiderate, !and the Avaricious.”But we return to Whittington ; who wouldhave lived happy in this worthy family, hadhe not been bumped about by the crofs cock,who muftbeal ways roallingor balling, and whenthe fpit was ft ill, employed her hands uponpoor "Whittington : ’till Mifs Alice, his Ma¬iler’s daughter, was informed of it, and thenHie had companion on the poor boy, and madethe fervants treat him kindly.Befides the crofi'nefs of the cook, Whitting¬ton had another difficulty to get over before hecould be happy. He had, by order of hisniafter, a ftock bed placed for him, in a gar¬ret, where there were luch a number ol ratsand mice, that they often ran over the poorboy’s nofe, and difturbed him in his fkep.After fome time, however, a gentleman, whocame to his mafter’s houfe. gave Whittington ape v, for brufhing his fhoes. This he putince his pocket, being determined toout to the beft advantage ; and, the nextfeeing a woman m the ftreets with a cat under  herlay itdayher arm, he ran up to her to know the priceof it. The woman, as the cat was a goodmoufer, afked a great deal of money for it;but on Whittington’s telling her he had buta prnny in the world, and that he wanted a catfadly—fhe let him have it.I Tliis cat Whittington concealed in the gar¬ret, for fear Ihe would be beat about by hismortal enemy, the cook,—and here fhe foonkilled or mghted away the rats and mice, fothat the poor boy could now deep as foundas a top.Soon after this, the merchant, who had afhip ready to fail, called for his fervants, ashis cuftom was, in order that each of themmight venture fomthing to try their fuck 5and whatever they fer was to pay neither*freight nor cuftom ; for he thought, juitiy,that God Almighty would blefs him the morefor his readinels to let the poor partake of his.fortune :« He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord,,“ ivho ivill return itfeventy fold”All the fervants appeared but poor Whit¬tington, who had neither money nor goods,could not think of fending any thing to tryhis luck; but his good friend Mil's Alice,thinking his poverty kept him away, orderedhim to be called,-——She then offered to laydown.( s )down fbmething for him, but the Merchant |told his daughter, that would not do ; for itmuft be fomething of his own. Upon whichpoor Whittington faid he had nothing but acat, which he had bought for a penny thatwas given him. “ Fetch thy cat, boy,” faysthe Merchant, “ and fend her.” Whitting¬ton brought poor pufs, and delivered her to jthe Captain with tears in his eyes, for he faid,he fhould now be difturbed by the rats and ;mice as much as ever All the company iaugh- Ied at the adventure, and Mifs Alice, pitiedthe poor boy, gave him fomething to buyanother cat.While pufs was beating the billows at fea,poor Whittington was i'everely beaten at homeby his tyrannical miftrefs, the cook, who ufedhim fo cruelly, and made fuch game ol himfor fending his cat to fea, that at lalt the poorboy determined to run away from his place, -|and having packed up a few things he had,he fet out very early in the morning on Allha!-low’s-Day. He travelled as far as Halloway,and there fat down upon a flone to confiderwhat courfe he ihculd take ; but while hewas thus ruminating. Bow Bells, of whichthere were only fix, began to ring ; and hethought their founds addreffed him in thismanner :—■“ Turn again Whittington“ Lord Mayer cjgreat London ^“ Lord( 9 )<e Lord Mayor of London/’ faid he, tohimfelf, “ what wouM not one endure to be“ Lord Mayor of London, andrideinfuch a fine“coach!! Well, I’ll go back again, and bear^ all the pummelling and ill-ufage of Cicely,“ rather than mifs the opportunity of being“ Lord Mayor !”—So home he went, andhappily got into the houfe and about his bufi-neis before Mrs Cicely made her appearance.We mull now follow Mils Pufs to the coaffcof Africa, to that coafl where Dido expired forlofs of iEneas. How perilous are voyagesat fea, how uncertain the winds and the waves,and how many accidents attend a naval life !The fliip, which had the cat on board,was long beaten at fea, and at laft, by contra¬ry winds, driven on a pa; t of the coalt of Bar¬bary, which was inhabited by Moors unknownto the Englifii. i'hefe people received ourcountrymen with civility, and therefore thecaptain, in order to trade with them, fnewedthem patterns of the goods he had on board,and lent feme of them to the king of the country,who was fo well pleated, that lie lent for theCaptain and the Faftor to his palace which,was about a mile from the lea. Here theywere placed, according tothecufiomofthecountry, on rich carpets, flowered with gold andfilver ; and the king and queen beiug (eatedat the upper end of the room, dinner wasbrought( rc )brought in, which confided of many difiies ;but no fconer were >he uiihcs pur down, butan amazing number of rars and mice camefrom all quarters, aud devoured ail the meatin an inflant. The factor in furpnfe turnedround to the nobles, and ifked,“ If thefe ver¬min were not ofienfive ? ’—u O yes,” faidthey, very offcnfive, and the king would“ give half his treafure to be freed (>f thrin 5‘ for they not only deftroy his dinner, as youfee, but they afTmlt him in his chamber,and even in bed, !o that he is obliged :u bewatched while he is fleeping, for fear o£4‘ them.”ClClThe factor jumped for joy; he remem¬bered poor Whittington and his cat, and toldthe king he had a creature on board the Ihipthat would difpatch all thefe vermin immedi¬ately. The king’s heart heaved fo high at thejoy which this news gave him, that his turbandropped off his'head ! “Bring this creature tome.fays he, “ vermin are dreadful m ae: court, and if (he will perform what you“ fay, I will load your fhip with gold and jewelsin exchange for her.” the fador, whoknew his bufmefs, took this opportunity to fetforth the merits of Mrs Pufs. He told hisMajefty, “ that it would be inconvenient»< to part with her, as when flie was gone, the** rats and mice might deflroy the goods in his“ fliip(- II )“ fhip—but to oblige his majefty he would“ fetch her”—‘ Run, run,‘ faid the queen,“ I am impatient to lee the dear creature.”Away flew the faftor, wrhile another dinnerwas providing, and returned with the cat,juft as the rats and mice were devouring thatalfo; He immediately put down Mrs Pufs,who killed a great number of them.The king rejoiced greatly to fee his old e-nemies deftroyed by lo finall a creature, and'the queen was highly pleafed, and defired thecat might be brought near, that flie might1lock at her. Upon which, the fattor called“ Paddy, pulley, puffey,” and Are came to1him. He then prcfented her to the queen,who ftarted back, and was afraid to touch a'creature who had made fuch a havock amongthe r^ts and mice ; however, when the factor;flroked the cat, and called‘ “ Puflfey, pulfey, ’“ pufley,” tire queen alfo touched her, andcried, “ Puttey, puttey,” for Ihe had not;learned Englifli.He then put her dowa-on the queen’s lap,where Ihe purring, played with her Majefty’shand, and then fung herfelf to fleep.Fufs, and bein£ informed that file was withyoung, and would ftock the whole country,,bargained with the captain ana factor for thewhole {hip’s cargo, and then gave them teatimes as much for the cat as all the rtfl amoun¬ted to With which, taking leave of theirXvlajedies, and other great ptrionages at court,they failed w ith a fair wind for England, w hitherwe mull now attend them.The morn had fcarcely dawned, when MrFitzwarreji Hole from the bed of his belovedwife, to count over the cafli, and fettle thebufmefs for the day. He had juft entered thej compting-houfe and feated himlelf at his defk,when fomebody came, tap, tap. tap, at theI door. Who’s there,” favs Mr Fitzvvarren,i—'s A friend,” anfvvered the other, What“ friend can come at this unfeafonabletinre?”-—| A real friend is never unfeafonable,” an-fweredthe other. “ l come to bring you goodnews of the {hip Unicorn.” The merchant bu-; illed up in fuch a hurry that he forgot his gout;inflantly opened the door, and who {hould bedeen waiting but the captain and factor, with a| cabinet of jewels, and a bill of lading? forwhich; the merchant lifted up his eyes, ami thankedf heaven for fending him fuch a profperousjjvoyage. Then they told him the adventures, of the cat, {hewed him the cabinet of jewelswhich they had brought for Mr Whittingtonc! Upon( *3 )Upon which hs cried out with great earneftnefs.but not in the mpft poetical manner,“ Go call him, and tell him of his fame,“ And call him Mr Whittington by name.”It is not our bufmefs to animadvert uponthefe lines; we are not cri'ics* but hiltorians.It is fufficient for us, that thefe are the wordsof Mr Fitzwarren ; and though it is befide ourpurpofe. and perhaps not in our power toprove him a good poet, we (hall foon convincethe reader that he was a good man, which wasa much better character ; for when fomewho were prefent, told him that this treafurewas too much for fach a poor boy as Whitting¬ton, he faid* “ God forbid that I fhould“ deprive him of a penny, it is all his own,and he fhall have it all to a farthing ” Hethen ordered Mr Whittington in, who wasat this time cleaning the kitchen, and wouldhave excufed himfelf from going into the par-lour, faying. The room was rubbed, and hisihoes were dirty and full of hob-nails. Themerchant, however, made him come in, andordered a chair to be fet for him. Upon which,thinking they intended to make fport of him,as had been too often thetcafe inthe kitchen, hebefought his mailer not to mock a poor fimplefellow, who intended them no harm, but tolet him eo about his bufinds. The merchant.( 14 Jtaking him by the hand faid, <{ Indeed, Mr.“ Whittington 1 am in eameft vvith you, and<£ fent for you to congratulate you on yourtc great faccefs. Your cat has produced you“ more money than I am worth in the world,“ and may you long enjoy it and be hippy.,,At length being !h?wn the tre^fure, andconvinced by them that all of it belonged tohim, he fell upon his knees, and thanked theAlmighty for his’ providential care offuch a poor miierable creature.- He then laidall the treafure at his mafter’s fe-t, who refu-; fed to take any pf>.rt of it, but told him heheartily r joiced at his profperitv, and hopedthe wealth he had acquired would be a com¬fort to him and make him happy. He thenapplied to his miflrefs and to his good friendMil's Alice, who refufed to take any part ofthe money, but told him the really rejoiced athis good fuccefs, and wifhed him ail imagina¬ble felicity. He then gratified the captain,faefor. and {hip’s ertw, for the cure they hadtaken of his. cargo, difiribured prefects to ailthe fervants in the houi’e not forgetting evenhis old enemy the cock, though Ihe little de-ftrved it.After this Mr Fi'zwarren advifed Mr Whit¬tington to fend for the mcelfury people, anddrels himfejf like a.gentleman/ and made tymthe( ^5 )the offer of his hoofe to live in, till he couldprovide himfelf with a better. Now it cameto pafs, that when Mr Whittington’s face waswafhed, his hair curled, and dreffed in a richfuit of clothes, that he turned out a genteelyoung fellow, and as wealth contributes muchto give a man confidence, he, in a little timeii dropped that fheepifh behaviour which was; principally qccafioned by a depreflion of fpi-; rits, and foon grew a fprightly and good com-! panion, infomuch that Mifs Alice, who had| formerly feen him with an eye of compaflion,i now viewed him with other eyes, which, per-Ihaps, was in f'ome meafure occafioned by hisreadinefs to oblige her, and by continually ma¬king her prefents of fuch things as he thoughtj would be agreeable.When her father perceived they had thisgood liking for each other, he propofed amatch between them, to which both parties1 chearfully confented, and the Lord Mayor*Court of Alderman, Sheriffs, the CompanyI of Stationers, and a number of eminent mer-chants attended the ceremony, and were ele =gantly treated at an entertainment made forthat purpofe.<Hiflory tell? us, that they "ved happy, andhad fevcral children, that ire was Sheriff ofii ondon in the year 1340,.and then Lord Mayor'!> . tiiat-C ■« )that in the laft year of his Mayoralty, he en¬tertained King Henry Vih, and his Qa'een,after his conquefl of France. Upon whichoccafion, the king, in confideration of Whit¬tington’s merit, laid, “ Never hacT prince<{ fuch a fubied,” which, being told to Whit¬tington at the table, he replied, “ Never had<c fubje& fuch a king.” He conftantly fedgreat numbers of poor. He built a churchand a college to it with a yearly allowance forpoor fcholars; and near it erected aij hofpital.He built Newgate for criminals, and gave li¬berally to St. Bartholomew’s hofpkal, and toother public charities.FINIS*