STORIES OFCOUNTESS OF EXETER.GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSk OF SCOTLAND'll. a;* ffloT''/ona < i • ht :•a**K V. VPrvwi'\- ‘. ;G£- ‘ ' J5'* -**•!V/00fc»AJDTHE TWO DROVERSLt was the day after the Doune Fair when my storyommences. It had been a brisk market, severalhealers had attended from the northern and midlandounties in England, and the English money had flownu merrily about as to gladden the hearts of the High¬land fanners. Many large droves were about to setif for England, under the protection of their owners,r of the topsmen whom they employed in the tedious,aborious, and responsible office of driving the cattle forany hundred miles, from the market where they hadeen purchased, to the fields or farm-yards where theyere to be fattened for-the shambles.Of the number who left Doune in the morning, andith the purpose we have described, not a Glunamief them all cocked his bonnet more briskly, or garteredis tartan hose under knee over a pair of more pro-ising spiogs (legs), than did Robin Oig M‘Combich,led familiarly Robin Oig, that is Young, or theaesser, Robin. Though small of stature, as the epi-riet Oig implies, and not very strongly limbed, he wasis light and alert as one of the deer of his mountains,ie had an elasticity of step, which, in the course of ang march, made many a stout fellow envy him ; andle manner in which he busked his plaid, and adjusteds bonnet argued a consciousness that so smart a JohnLighlandman as himself would not pass unnoticednong the lowland hisses. The ruddy cheek, red lips,id white teeth, set off a countenance which had gained/ exposure to the weather, a healthful and hardyuher than a rugged hue. If Robin Oig did not laugh,ven smile freipiently, as indeed is not the practiceIds countrymen, his bright eyes usually gleamed4from under his bonnet with an expression of cheerfulnessready to be turned into mirth.The departure of Robin Oig was an incident in the ,little town, in and near which he had many friends male jand female. He was a topping person in his way, Itransacting considerable business on his own behalf, andwas intrusted by the best farmers in the Highlands, inpreference to any other drover in that district.Many were the words of gratulation and good luckwhich were bestowed on Robin Oig. The judges com¬mended his drove, especially the best of them, whichwere Robin’s own property. Some thrust out theirsnuff-mulls for the parting pinch—others tendered thedoch-an-durrach, or parting cup. All cried—“ Good- |luck travel out with you and come home with you.— JGive you luck in the Saxon market—brave notes in the jluabhar-dhu, (black pocket-book,) and plenty of Eng- flish gold in the sporran (pouch of goat-skin.)”The bonny lasses made their adieus more modestly,and more than one, it was said, would have given herbest broach to be certain that it was upon her that hiseye last rested as he turned towards his road.Robin Oig had just given the preliminary “ Hoo-hoo /” to urge forward the loiterers of the drove, whenthere was a cry behind him. “ Stay, Robin—bide ablink. Here is Janet of Tomahourich—auld Janet,your father's sister.” “ Plague on her, for an auldHighland witch and spaewife,” said a farmer from theCarse of Stirling ; “ she’ll cast some of her cantrips on.the cattle.” “ She camia do that,” said another sa¬pient of the same profession—“ Robin Oig is no the ladito leave any of them, without tying Saint Mungo’aknot on their tails, and that will put to her speed the ibest witch that ever flew over Dimayet upon a broom¬stick.”It may not be indifferent to the reader to know, thatffJthe Highland cattle are peculiarly liable to be taken, oiinfected, by spells and witchcraft, which judicious peo- •pie guard against by knitting knots of peculiar com ,)»I P5plcxity on the the tuft of hair which ienninates theanimal’s tail.But the old woman who was the object of thefarmer's suspicion seemed only busied about the drover,without paying any attention to the flock. Robin, onthe contrary, appeared rather impatient of her presence.“ What auld-world fancy,” he said, “has brought youso early from the ingle-side this morning, Muhme ? Iam sure I bid you good even, and had your God-speed,iast night.” “ And left me more siller than the uselessold woman will use till you come back again, bird ofmy bosom,” said the sibyl. “ But it is little I wouldcare for the food that nourishes me, or the fire thatwarms me, or for God’s blessed sun itself, if aught butweal should happen to the grandson of my father. Solet me walk the deasil round you, that you may go safeout into the far foreign land, and come safe home.”Robin Oig stopped, half embarrassed, half laughing,and signing to those around that he only complied withthe old woman to soothe her humour. In the mean¬time, she traced around him, with wavering steps, thepropitiation, which some have thought has been derivedfrom the Druidical mythology. It consists, as is wellknown, in the person who makes the deasil, walkingthree times round the person who is the object of theceremony, taking care to move according to the courseof the sun. At once, however, she stopped short, andexclaimed, in a voice of alarm and horror, “ Grandsonof my father, there is blood on your hand !” “ Hush,for God’s sake, aunt," said Robin Oig; “ you willbring more trouble on yourself with this Talshataragh(.second sight) than you will be able to get out of formany a day.” The old woman only repeated, with aghastly look, “ There is blood on your hand, and it isEnglish blood. The blood of the Gael is richer andredder. Let us see—let us ” Ere Robin Oigcould prevent her, which, indeed, could only have been!! by positive violence, so hasty and peremptory were her' proceedings, slue had drawn from his side the dirk whichGlodged in the folds of Ids plaid, and held it up, exclaim*ing, although the weapon gleamed clear and bright inthe sun, “ Blood, blood—Saxon blood again ! RobinOig M'Combich, go not this day to England !” “ Fruit,trutt,” answered Robin Oig, “ that will never do nei¬ther—it would be next thing to running the country.For shame, Muhine—give me the dirk. You cannottell by the colour the difference betwixt the blood of ablack bullock and a white one, and you speak of know¬ing Saxon from Gaelic blood. All men have theirblood from Adam, Muhme. Give me my shenedhu,and let me go on my road. I should have been halfway to Stirling brig by this time—Give me my dirk,and let me go.” “ Never will I give it to you,” saidthe old woman—“ Never will I quit my hold on yourplaid, unless you promise me not to wear that unhappyweapon."The women around him urged him also, saying fewof his aunt’s words fell to the ground; and as theLowland farmers continued to look moodily on thescene, Robin Oig determined to close it at any sacrifice.‘ Well, then,” said the young drover, giving thecabbard of the weapon to Hugh Morrison, “ you Low-anders care nothing for these freats. Keep my dirkfor me. I cannot give it you, because it was my fa¬ther’s; but your drove follows ours, and I am contentit should be in your keeping, not in mine.—Will thisdo, Muhme ?" “ It must,” said the old woman—“ that is, if the Lowlander is mad enough to carry theknife." The strong westlandman laughed aloud.“ Goodwife," said he, “l am Hugh Morrison fromGlenae, come of the Manly Morrisons of auld lang-syne, that never took short weapon against a manin their lives. And neither needed they: They hadtheir broadswords, and I have this bit supple (showinga formidable cudgel)—for dirking ower the board, 1leave that to John Highlandman.—Ye needna snort,none of you Highlanders, and you in especial, Rolan.I’ll keep the bit knife, if you are feared for the anlJ7tpaewife’s tale, and give it back to you whenever youi want it.”Robin drove on his cattle, and waved farewell to allbehind him. He was in the greater haste, because heexpected to join at Falkirk a comrade and brother inprofession, with whom he proposed to travel in com¬pany.Robin Oig’s chosen friend was a young Englishman,i| Harry Wakefield by name, well known at everynorthern market, and in his way as much famed andhonoured as our Highland driver of bullocks. He was< nearly six feet high, gallantly formed to keep the roundsI at Smithfield, or maintain the ring at a wrestlingI match; and although he might have been overmatched,I perhaps, among the regular professors of the Fancy, yetil as a chance customer, he was able to give a bellyful! to any amateur of the pugilistic art. Doncaster races9 saw him in his glory, betting his guinea, and generally| successfully; nor was there a main fought in Yojk-! shire, the feeders being persons of celebrity, at whichhe was not to be seen, if business permitted. But(j though a sprack lad, and fond of pleasure and itsj haunts, Harry Wakefield was steady, and not thej- cautious Robin Oig M'Combich himself was more at-■i. tentive to the main chance. His holidays were holidays; indeed ; but his days of work were dedicated to steadyand persevering labour. In countenance and temper,Wakefield was the model of Old England’s merry yeo¬men, whose clothyard shafts, in so many hundred bat¬tles, asserted her superiority over the nations, and whosei good sabres, in our own time, are her cheapest andi most assured defence. His mirth was readily excited ;for, strong in limb and constitution, and fortunate ini circumstances, he was disposed to be pleased witlxr every thing about him ; and such difficulties as he might; occasionally encounter, were, to a man of his energy,rather matter of amusement than serious annoyance.With all the merits of a sanguine temper, our youEnglish drover was not without his defects. HeI6irascible, ami sometimes to the verge of being quarrel¬some ; and perhaps not the less inclined to bring hisdisputes to a pugilistic decision, because he foundfew antagonists able to stand up to him in the boxingring.The pair of friends had traversed with their usualcordiality the grassy wilds of Liddesdale, and crossedtire opposite part of Cumberland, emphatically calledThe Waste. In these solitary regions, the cattle underthe charge of our drovers subsisted themselves cheaply,by picking their food as they went along the drove-road, or sometimes by the tempting opportunity of astart and mucrloup, or invasion of the neighbouringpasture, where an occasion presented itself. But nowthe scene changed before them ; they were descendingtowards a fertile and inclosed country, where no suchliberties could be taken with impunity, or without a pre¬vious arr angement and bargain with the possessors of theground. This was more especially the case, as a greatnorthern fair was upon the eve of taking place, whereboth the Scotch and English drover expected to disposeof a par t of their cattle, which it was desirable to pro-ditce irt the market, rested and in good order. Fieldswere therefore difficult to be obtained, and ortly uporthigh terms. This necessity occasioned a temporaryseparation betwixt the two friends, who went to bar- igain, each as he could, for the separate accommodatiorrof his herd. Unhappily it chanced that both of them,unknown to each other, thought of bargaining for thegr ound they wanted on the property of a country gen¬tleman of some fortune, whose estate lay in the neigh¬bourhood. The English drover applied to the bailiff onthe property, who was known to him. It chanced thatthe Cumbrian Squire, who had entertained some suspi¬cions of his manager's honesty was taking occasionalmeasures to ascertain how far they were well founded,arrd had desired that any inquiries about his inclosures,with a view to occupy them for a temporary purpose,should be referred to himself. As, however, Mr Irebyy;i had gone the day before upon a journey of some miles’distance to the northward, the bailiff chose to considerI the check upon his full powers as for the time removed,and concluded that he should best consult his master’sinterest, and perhaps his own, in making an agreementi with Harry Wakefield. Meanwhile, ignorant of whathis comrade was doing, Robin Oig, on his side, chanced: to be overtaken by a well-looked smart little man upona pony, most knowingly hogged and cropped, as was; then the fashion, the rider wearing tight leather breeches,I and long-necked bright spurs. This cavalier asked oneor two pertinent questions about markets and the priceof stock. So Donald, seeing him a well-judging civilgentleman, took the freedom to ask him whether hecould let him know if there was any grass-land to bei let in that neighbourhood, for the temporary accommo¬dation of his drove. He could not have put the ques-, tion to more willing ears. The gentleman of the buck-I skins was the proprietor, with whose bailiff HarryJ Wakefield had dealt, or was in the act of dealing.“ Thou art in good luck, my canny Scot,” said MrI Ireby, to have spoken to me, for I see thy cattle haveif done their day’s work, and I have at my disposal ther< only field within three miles that is to be let in these| parts.” “ The drove can pe gang two, three, four1 miles very pratty well indeed—” said the cautious High¬lander ; put what would his honour pe axing for the<j beasts pe the head, if she was to tak the park for twae or three days?” We wont differ, Sawney, if you let1 me have six stots for winterers, in the way of reason.”“ And which peasts would your honour pe for having ?’’“ Why—let me see—the two black—the dun one—yon1 doddy, him with the twisted horn—the brocket— Howmuch by the head ?” Ah,” said Robin, “your hon-e our is a shudge—a real shudge—I couldna have set off1 the pest six peasts petter mysell, me that ken them asi if they were my pairns, puir things.” “ Well, howi much per head, Sawney,” continued Mr Ireby. “It washigh markets at Doune and Falkirk,” answered Robin.1UAnd thus the conversation proceeded until they hadagreed on the prix juste for the bullocks, the Squirethrowing in the temporary accommodation of the in-closure for the cattle into the boot, and Robin making,as he thought a very good bargain, providing the grasswas but tolerable. The Squire walked his pony along¬side of the drove, partly to show him the way, and seehim put into possession of the field, and partly to learnthe latest news of the northern markets.They arrived at the field, and the pasture seemedexcellent. But what was their surprise when they sawthe bailiff quietly inducting the cattle of Harry Wake¬field into the grassy Goshen which had just been assignedto those of Robin Oig M‘Combich by the proprietorhimself. Squire Ireby set spurs to his horse, dashed upto his servant, and learning what had passed betweenthe parties, briefly informed the English drover that hisbailiff had let the ground without his authority, andthat he might seek grass for his cattle wherever hewould, since he was to get none there. At the sametime he rebuked his servant severely for having trans¬gressed his commands, and ordered him instantly toassist in ejecting the hungry and weary cattle of HarryWakefield, which were just beginning to enjoy a mealof unusual plenty, and to introduce those of his com¬rade, whom the English drover now began to consideras a rival.The feelings which arose in Wakefield’s mind wouldhave induced him to resist Mr Ireby’s decision; but evervEnglishman has a tolerably accurate sense of law andJ'ustice, and John Fleecebumpkin, the bailiff, having ac-mowledged that he had exceeded his commission,Wakefield saw nothing else for it than to collect hishungry and disappointed charge, and drive them on toseek quarters elsewhere. Robin Oig saw what hadhappened with regret, and hastened to ofl'er to hisEnglish friend to share with him die disputed posses¬sion. But Wakefield’s pride was severely hurt, and heanswered disdainfully, “ Take it all, man—take it all1J— never make two bites of a cherry—thou canst talkOver the gentry, and blear a plain man’s eye—Out uponvon, man—I would not kiss any man’s dirty latchetsfor leave to bake in his oven.’Robin Oig, sorry but not surprised at his comrade’slispleasure, hastened to entreat his friend to wait butan hour till he had gone to the Squire’s house to receivepayment for the cattle he had sold, and he would comeback and help him to drive the cattle into some con¬venient place of rest, and explain to him the whole mis¬take they had both of them fallen into. But the Eng¬lishman continued indignant: “ Thou hast been selling,hast thou ? Ay, ay—thou is a cunning lad for kenningthe hours of bargaining. Go to the devil with thyself,for I will ne’er see thy fause loon’s visage again—thoushould be ashamed to look me in the face.” “ I amashamed to look no man in the face," said Robin Oig,something moved ; “ and, moreover, I will look you inI the face this blessed day, if you will bide at the Clachandown yonder.” “ Mayhap you had as well keepaway,” said his comrade; and turning his back on hisformer friend, he collected his unwilling associates, as¬sisted by the bailiff, who took some real and some af¬fected interest in seeing Wakefield accommodated.I After spending some time in negotiating with morethan one of the neighbouring farmers, who could not,or would not afford the accommodation desired, HenryWakefield at last, and in his necessity, accomplished hispoint by means of the landlord of the alehouse at whichRobin Oig and he had agreed to pass the night, whenthey first separated from each other. Mine host wascontent to let him turn his cattle on a piece of barrenmoor, at a price little less than the bailiff had asked forthe disputed inclosure ; and the wretchedness of thepasture, as well as the price paid for it, were set down asexaggerations of the breach of faith and friendship ofhis Scottish crony. This turn of Wakefield’s passionswas encouraged by the bailiff, (who had his own rea¬sons for being offended against poor Robin, as having:sbeen the unwitting ca^fse of his falling into disgiace withhis master,) as well as by the innkeeper, and two orthree chance guests, who soothed the drorer in his re¬sentment against his quondam associate,—some from theancient grudge against the Scots, which, when it existsanywhere is to be found lurking in the border counties,and some from the general love of mischief, which char¬acterises mankind in all ranks of life, to the honour ofAdam’s children be it spoken. Good John Barleycornalso, who always heightens and exaggerates the pre¬vailing passions, be they angry or kindly, was not want¬ing in his offices on this occasion; and confusion to falsefriends and hard masters, was pledged in more than onetankard.In the meanwhile Mr Ireby found some amusementin detaining the northern drover at his ancient hall. Hecaused a cold round of beef to be placed before the Scotin the butler’s pantry, together with a foaming tankardof home-brewed, and took pleasure in seeing the heartyappetite with which these unwonted edibles were dis¬cussed by Robin Oig M'Combich. The Squire himselflighting his pipe, compounded between bis patriciandignity and his love of agricultural gossip, by walkingup and down while he conversed with his gnest. “ Ipassed another drove,” said the Squire, “ with one ofyour countrymen behind them—they were somethingless beasts than your drove, doddres most of them—abig man was with them—none of your kilts though, buta decent pair of breeches—D’ye know who he may be P”“ Hout ay—that might, could, and would pe HnghieMorrison—I didna think he coulft hae peen sae weel up.He has made a day on us ; put his Argyleshires willhave wearied shanks. How far was he pehind ?’’ “Ithink about six or seven miles,” answered the Squire,“for I passed them at the Christenbury Cragg, anoI overtook you at the HoUan Bush. If his beasts boleg-weary, he will be maybe selling bargains.” “ Na,na, Hugliie Morrison is no the man for pargains—yemaun come to some Highland body like Robin Oig he13sell for the like of these—put I maun pe wishing yougoot night, and twenty of them, let alane ane, and Imaun down to the Clachan to see if the lad HenryWaakfelt is out of his humdudgeons yet,”The party at- the alehouse were still in full talk, andthe treachery of Robin Oig still the theme of conversa¬tion, when the supposed culprit entered the apartment.His arrival, as usually happens in such a case, put aninstant stop to the discussion of which he had furnishedthe subject, and he was received by the company as¬sembled with that chilling silence, which, more than a1 thousand exclamations, tells an intruder that he is un¬welcome. Surprised and offended, but not appalled bythe reception which he experienced, Robin entered withan undaunted, and even a haughty air, attempted nogreeting as he saw he was received with none, andplaced himself by the side of the fire, a little apart froma table, at which Harry Wakefield, the bailiff, and twoor three other persons, were seated. The ample Cum¬brian kitchen would have afforded plenty of room evenfor a larger separation.Robin, thus seated, proceeded to light his pipe, andt call for a pint of twopenny. “ We have no twopenceI ale,” answered Ralph Heskett the landlord ; but asthou find’st thy own tobacco, it’s like thou may’st findthine own liquor too—it’s the wont of thy country, Iwot.” “Shame, goodman,” said the landlady, a blithebustling housewife, hastening herself to supply the guestwith liquor—“ Thou knowest well enow what thestrange man wants, and it’s thy trade to be civil, man.I Thou shouldst know, that if the Scot likes a small pot,ke pays a sure penny.”Without taking any notice of this nuptial dialogue,the Highlander took the flagon in his hand, and ad-jressing the company generally, drank the interestingtoast of “ Good markets,” to the party assembled.“ The bitter that the wind blew fewer dealers fromJie north,” said one of the farmers, “ and fewer High-and runts to eat up the English meadows.” “ Saul «f14my pody, put you are wrung there my friend,’’ answeredRobin, with composure, “it is your fat Englishmenthat eat up our Scots cattle, puir things." “ I wishthere was a summat to eat up their drovers,” said an¬other ; “ a plain Englishman canna make bread withina kenning of them.’’ “ Or an honest servant keep hismaster’s favour, but they will come sliding in betweenhim and the sunshine,” said the bailiff. “ If these pejokes,” said Robin Oig, with the same composure,“ there is ower mony jokes upon one man.” “ It’s nojoke, but downright earnest,” said the bailiff. “ Harkye, Mr Robin Ogg, or whatever is your name, it’sright we should tell you that we are all of one opinion,and that is, that you, Mr Robin Ogg, have behaved toour friend Mr Hairy Wakefield here, like a raff and ablackguard.” “ Nae doubt, nae doubt,” answeredRobin, with great composure ; “ and you are a set ofvery feeling judges, for whose prains or pehaviour Iwad not gie a pinch of sneeshing. If Mr Harry Waak-felt kens where he is wranged, he kens where he maybe righted." “ He speaks truth,” said Wakefield,who had listened to what passed, divided between theoffence which he had taken at Robin’s late behaviour,and the revival of his habitual habits of friendship.He now rose, and went towards Robin, who got upfrom his seat as he approached, and held out his hand.“ That’s right, Harry—go it—serve him out,” resound¬ed on all sides—“ tip him the nailer—show him themill.” “ Hold your peace all of you, and be said Wakefield; and then addressing his comrade, hetook him by the extended hand, with something alikeof respect and defiance. “ Robin,” he said, “ thou hastused me ill enough this day; but if you mean like afrank fellow, to shake hands, and take a tussel for loveon the sod, why I’ll forgie the man, and we shall bebetter friends than ever.” “ And would it not pe pot¬ter to be cood friends without more of the matter ?”said Robin ; “ we will be much petter friendships withour panes hale than broken."15Harry Wakefield dropped the hand of his friend, orrather threw it from him. “ I did not think I haddeen keeping company for three years with a coward.”‘Coward pelongs to none of my name," said Robin,whose eyes began to kindle, but keeping the commandof his temper. “ It was no coward’s legs or hands,Harry Waakfelt, that drew you out of the fords ofFrew, when you was drifting ower the plack rock, andevery eel in the river expected his share of you.’’ “ Andthat is true enough, too,” said the Englishman, struckby the appeal. “ Adzooks !” exclaimed the bailiff—“ sure Harry Wakefield, the nattiest lad at WhitsonTryste, Wooler Fair, Carlisle Sands, or Stagshawbank, is not going to show white feather ? Ah, thiscomes of living so long with kilts and bonnets—menforget the use of their daddies.” “ I may teach you.Master Fleecebumpkin, that I have not lost the use otmine,” said Wakefield, and then went on. “ This willnever do, Robin. We must have a turn-up, or weshall be the talk of the country side. I’ll be d dif I hurt thee—I’ll put on the gloves gin thou like.Come, stand forward like a man.” “ To pe peatenlike a dog,” said Robin ; “ is there any reason in that ?If you think I have done you wrong. I’ll go beforeyour shudge, though I neither know his law nor hislanguage.”A general cry of “No, no,—no law, no lawyer ! abellyful and be friends,” was echoed by the bystanders.“ But,” continued Robin, “ if I am to fight, I haveno skill to fight like a jackanapes, with hands andnails.” “ How would you fight then ?” said his an¬tagonist : “ though I am thinking it would be hard tobring you to the scratch anyhow.” “I would fightwith proadswoards, and sink point on the first blooddrawn like a gentlemans.”A loud shout of laughter followed the proposal, whichindeed had rather escaped from poor Robin's swellingheart, than been the dictates of his sober judgment.“ Gentleman, quotha !” was echoed on all sides, with16a shout of unextinguishable laughter: “a very prettygentleman, God wot—Canst get two swords for thegentleman to fight with, Ralph Heskett “ No, butI can send to the armoury at Carlisle, and lend themtwo forks to be making shift with in the meantime.”‘ Tush, man,” said another, “ the bonny Scots comeinto the world with the blue bonnet on their heads, anddirk and pistol at their belt." “ Best send post," saidMr Fleecebumpkin, “ to the Squire of Corby Castle, tocome and stand second to the gentleman."In the midst of this torrent of general ridicule, theHighlander instinctively griped beneath the folds of hisplaid. “ But it’s better not,” he said in his own lan¬guage. “A hundred curses on the swine-eaters, whoknow neither decency nor civility ! Make room, thepack of you,” he said, advancing to the door. But hisformer friend interposed his sturdy bulk, and opposedhis leaving the house; and when Robin Oig attemptedto make his way by force, he hit him down on the floor,with as much ease as a boy bowls down a nine-pin. “ Aring ! a ring 1” was now shouted, until the dark raft¬ers, and the hams that hung on them, trembled again,and the very platters on the birik clattered against eachother. “ Well done, Harry.”—“ Give it him home,Harry.”—“ Take care of him now—he sees his ownblood !”Such were the exclamations, while the Highlander,starting from the ground, all his coldness and cautionlost in frantic rage, sprung at his antagonist with thefury, the activity, and the vindictive purpose, of an in¬censed tiger-cat. But when could rage encounterscience and temper ? Robin Oig again went down inthe unequal contest; and as the blow was necessarilya severe one, he lay motionless on the floor of thekitchen. The landlady ran to offer some aid, but MrFleecebumpkin would not permit her to approach.“ Let him alone,” he said, “ he will come to withintime, and come up to the scratch again. He has notgot half his broth yet.” “ He has got all I mean to17give him, though,” said his antagouist, whose heartbegan to relent towards his old associate; “ and Iwould rather by half give the rest to yourself, MrFleecebumpkin for you pretend to know a thing ortwo, and Robin had not art enough even to peelbefore setting to, but fought with his plaid danglingabout him.—Stand up Robin, my man ! all friendsnow; and let me hear the man that will speak aword against you, or your country for your sake.”Robin Uig was still under the dominion of his pas¬sion, and eager to renew the onset; but being withheldon the one side by the peace-making Dame Heskett,and on the other, aware that Wakefield no longer• » # Omeant to renew the combat, his fury sunk into gloomysullenness. “ Come, come, never grudge so much atit, man,” said the brave-spirited Englishman, with theplacability of his country, “ shake hands, and we willbe better friends than ever.” Friends!” exclaimedRobin Oig with strong emphasis—“friends !—Never.Look to yourself, Harry Waakfelt.” “ Then thecurse of Cromwell on your proud Scots stomach, as theman says in the play, and you may do your worst andbe d d ; for one man can say nothing more to an¬other after a tussel, than that he is sorry for it."On these terms the friends parted ; Robin Oig drewI out, in silence, a piece of money, threw it on the table,and then left the alehouse. But turning at the door,he shook his hand at Wakefield, pointing with his fore¬finger upwards, in a manner which might imply eithera threat or a caution. He then disappeared in themoonlight.Some words passed after his departure, between thebailiff, who piqued himself on being a little of a bully,and Harry Wakefield, 'who with generous inconsistency,was now not indisposed to begin a new combat in de¬fence of Robin Oig’s reputation, “ although he couldnot use his daddies like an Englishman, as it did not comenatural to him." But Dame Heskett prevented thissecond quarrel from coining to a head by her peremptory18interference. “ There sliould be no more fighting inner house,” she said ; “ there had been too much al¬ready.—And you, Mr Wakefield, may live to learn,”she added, “ what it is to make a deadly enemy out ofa good friend.” “ Psha, dame! Robin Oig is anhonest fellow, and will never keep malice.” “ Do nottrust to that—you do not know the dour temper of theScotch, though you have dealt with them so often. Ihave a right to know them, my mother being a Scot.”“ And so is well seen in her daughter,” said RalphHeskett.This nuptial sarcasm gave the discourse another turn;fresh customers entered the tap-room or kitchen, andothers left it. The conversation turned on the expectedmarkets, and the report of prices from the different partsof Scotland and England—treaties were commenced,and Harry Wakefield was lucky enough to find a chapfor a part of his drove, and at a very considerable pro¬fit ; an event of consequence more than sufficient to blotout all remembrances of the unpleasant scuffle in theearlier part of the day. But there remained one partyfrom whose mind that recollection could not have beenwiped away by possession of every head of cattle betwixtEsk and Eden.This was Robin Oig M'Coinbich.—“ That I shouldhave had no weapon,” he said, and for the first time inmy life !—Blighted be the tongue that bids the High¬lander part with the dirk—the dirk—ha ! the Englishblood !—My Muhme’s word—when did her word fallto the ground?”The recollection of the fatal prophecy confirmed thedeadly intention which instantly sprung up in his mind.“ Ha ! Morrison cannot be many miles behind ; ami itit were an hundred, what then !”His impetuous spirit had now a fixed purpose andmotive of action, and he turned the light foot ot Idscountry towards the wilds, through which he knew, byMr Ireby’s report, that Morrison was advancing. Hismind was wholly engrossed by the sense of injury—in»11)S'uiry sustained from a friend ; and by the desire of ven¬geance on one whom he now accounted his most bitteri! enemy. The treasured ideas of self-importance andself-opinion—of ideal birth and quality, had become moreprecious to him, (like the hoard to the miser,) becausehe could only enjoy them in secret. But that hoardwas pillaged, the idols which he had secretly worshippedit had been desecrated and profaned. Insulted, abused,L and beaten, he was no longer worthy, in his own opin-: ion, of the name he bore, or the lineage which he be-I longed to—nothing was left to him—nothing but re-| venge; and, as the reflection added a galling spur to■i) every step, he determined it should be as sudden andS signal as the offence.I When Robin Oig left the door of the alehouse, sevenor eight English miles at least lay betwixt Morrison andhim. The advance of the former was slow, limited bythe sluggish pace of his cattle ; the last left behind himstubble-field and hedge-row, crag, and dark heath, allglittering with frost-rime in the broad November moon¬light, at the rate of six miles an hour. And now thedistant lowing of Morrison’s cattle is heard; and nowthey are seen creeping like moles in size and slownessof motion on the broad face of the moor ; and now hemeets them—passes them, and stops their conductai.“ May good betide us,” said the Southlander—■—^! fs(J this you, Robin M'Combich, or your wraith !” ' ‘ It> is Robin Oig M'Combich,” answered the Highlander,,“ and it is not.—But never mind that, put pe givingme the skenedhu.” “ What! you are for back to the■ Highlands—The devil!—Have you selt all off beforethe fair ? This beats all for quick markets.” “ IShave not sold—I am not going north—May pe I willnever go north again.—Give me pack my dirk, HughMorrison, or there will be words petween us.” “ In¬deed, Robin, I’ll be better advised or I gie it back toyou—it is a wanchancy weapon in a Higlandman’shand, and I am thinking you will be about some bams-breaking.” “ Pratt, trutt ! let me have my wea-I20pon,” said Rubin (Jig, impatiently. “ Hooly aitdfairly,” said his well-meaning friend, “ I’ll tell you whatwill do better than these dirking doings—Ye ken High¬lander and Lowlander, and Border-men, are a’ ae man’sbairns when you are over the Boots dyke. See theEskdale callants, and fighting Charlie of Liddesdale,and the Lockerby lads, and the four Dandies of Lu-struther, and a wheen mair grey plaids, are coming upbehind; and if you are wranged, there is a hand of amanly Morrison, we’ll see you righted, if Carlisle andStanwix baith took up the feud.” “To tell you thetruth," said Robin Oig, desirous of eluding the suspicionsof his friend, “ I have enlisted with a party of theBlack Watch, and must march off to-morrow morning.’’Enlisted ! Were you mad or drunk ?—You must buyyourself off—I can lend you twenty notes, and twentyto that, if the drove sell. ” “ I thank you, thank ye,Hughie; but I go with good will the gate that I amgoing,—so the dirk—the dirk!” “There it is foryou then, since less wunna serve. But think on whatI was saying.—Waes me, it will be sair news in thebraes of Balquidder, that Robin Oig M'Combich shouldhave run an ill gate, and ta’en on.” “ 111 news inBalquidder, indeed ! ” echoed poor Robin; “ put Cotspeed you, Hughie, and send you good marcats. Yewinna meet with Robin Oig again either at tryste orfair.”So saying, he shook hastily the hand of his acquaint¬ance, and set out in the direction from which he hadadvanced, with the spirit of his former pace.“ There is something wrang with the lad,” mutteredthe Morrison to himself; “ but we will maybe see bet¬ter into it the mom’s morning.”But long ere the morning dawned, the catastrophe ofour tale haid taken place. It was two hours after theaffray had happened, and it was totally forgotten byalmost every one, when Robin Oig returned to Heskett’sinn. The place was filled at once by various sorts ofmen. and with noises corresponding to their character.21There were the grave, low sounds of men engaged inbusy traffic, with the laugh, the song, and the riotousjest of those who had nothing to do but to enjoy them¬selves. Among the last was Harry Wakefield, whoamidst a grinning group of smock-frocks, hob-nailedshoes, and jolly English physiognomies, was trollingforth the old ditty,“ What though my name be Roger,Who drives the plough and cart—”when he was interrupted by a well-known voice, sayingin a high and stern voice, marked by the sharp High¬land accent, “ Harry Waakfelt—if you be a man, standup !” What is the matter ?—what is it ? ” the guestsdemanded of each other. “ It is only a d—d Scots¬man,” said Fleecebumpkin, who was by this time verydrunk, “ whom Harry Wakefield helped to his brothto-day, who is now come to have his cauld hail hettagain.” “ Harry Waakfelt,” repeated the same omi¬nous summons, “ stand up, if you be a man !”There is something in the tone of deep and concen¬trated passion, which attracts attention and imposesawe, even by the very sound. The guests shrunk backon every side, and gazed at the HighlamW, as he stoodin the middle of them, his brows bent, and his featuresrigid with resolution. “ I will stand up with all myheart, Robin, my boy, but it shall be to shake handswith you, and drink down all unkindness. It is not thefault of your heart, man, that you don’t know how toclench your hands.”By this time he stood opposite to his antagonist; hisopen and unsuspecting look strangely contrasted withthe stern purpose, which gleamed wild, dark, and vin¬dictive in the eyes of the Highlander. “ ’Tis not thyfault, man, that, not having the luck to be an English¬man, thou canst not fight more than a school-girl.” “ Ican fight,” answered Robin Oig sternly, but calmly,“ and you shall know it. You, Harry Waakfelt,showed me to-day how the Saxon churls fight—I showou now how the Highland Dunniewassal fights.”22He secoi.ded the word with the action, and plungedthe dagger, which he suddenly displayed, into the hroadbreast of the English yeoman, with such fatal certaintyand force, that the hilt made a hollow sound against thebreast-bone, and the double-edged point split the veryheart of his victim. Henry Wakefield fell, and expiredwith a single groan. His assassin next seized the bailifiby the collar, and ofl'ered the bloody poinard to histhroat, while dread and surprise rendered the man incap¬able of defence. “ It were very just to lay you besidehim,” he said, “ but the blood of a base pick-thank shallnever mix on my father’s dirk with that of a brave man.”As lie spoke, he cast the man from him with so muchforce that he fell on the floor, while Robin, with hisother hand, threw the fatal weapon into the blazingturf-fire. “ There,” he said, “ take me who likes—and let fire cleanse blood if it can.’’The pause of astonishment still continuing, Robin Oigasked for a peace-officer, and a constable having steppedout, he surrendered himself to his custody. “ A bloodynight’s work you have made of it,” said the constable.“ Your own fault,” said the Highlander. “ Had youkept his hands oft’ me twa hours since, he would havebeen now as well and merry as he was twa minutessince.” “ It must be sorely answered,” said the peace-officer. “ Never you mind that—death pays all debts;it will pay that too.”The horror of the bystanders began now to give wayco indignation ; and the sight of a favourite companionmurdered in the midst of them, the provocation being, intheir opinion, so utterly inadequate to the excess of ven¬geance, might have induced them to kill the perpetratorof the deed even upon the very spot. The constable,however, did his duty on this occasion, and with the as¬sistance of some of the more reasonable persons present,procured horses to guard the prisoner to Carlisle, to abideIds doom at the next assizes. While the escort waspreparing, the prisoner neither expressed the least in ¬terest, nor attempted the slight.'st reply.23My story is nearly ended. The unfortunate Higi iander stood his trial at Carlisle, and was sentenceddeath. He met his fate with great firmness, and ac¬knowledged the justice of his sentence. But he repelledindignantly the observations of those who accused himof attacking an unarmed man. “ I give a life for thelife I took,” he said, “ and what can I do more ?”—COUNTESS OF EXETER.1 am no teller of stories ; but there is one belonging toBurleigh House, of which I happen to know some of! the particulars. The late Earl of Exeter had been di¬vorced from his first wife, a woman of fashion, and ofi somewhat more gaiety of manners than “ lords who lovetheir ladies” like. He determined to seek out a secondwife in an humbler sphere of life, and that it should ben one who, having no knowledge of his rank, should lover him for himself alone. For this purpose, he went andsettled incognito, under the name of Mr Jones, at Hod-net, an obscure village in Shropshire. He made over¬tures to one or two damsels in the neighbourhood, buti: they were too knowing to be taken in by him. Hismanners were not boorish,—his mode of life was retired,—it was odd how he got his livelihood,—and at last hebegan to be taken for a highwayman. In this dilemma,he turned to Miss Hoggins, the eldest daughter of a|i small farmer at whose house he lodged. Miss Hoggins,it would seem, had not been used to romp with theclowns : there was something in the manners of theirquiet but eccentric guest which she liked. As he foundthat he had inspired her with that kind of regard which1 he wished for, lie made honourable proposals to her, andat the end of some months they were married, without hisetting her know who he was. They set off1 in a post-chaise from her father’s house, and travelled across thecountry. In this manner, they arrived at Stamford, and24passed through the town without stopping till they cameto the entrance of Burleigh Park, which is on the out¬side of it. The gates flew open, the chaise entered,and drove down the long avenue of trees that leads up tothe front of this line old mansion. As they drew nearerto it, and she seemed a little surprised where they weregoing, he said, “Well, my dear, this is Burleigh House,it is the house I have promised to bring you to, and youare the countess of Exeter I”—It is said the shock ofthis discovery was too much for the young creature,and that she never recovered it.—It was a sensationworth dying for. The world we live in was worth mak¬ing, had it been only for this. I never wish to havebeen a lord, but when I think of this story.