Conquelt of F ranee;with' t h eLife and Glorious A cl ionsOF'.Edward the Black Prince,;Son to Edward III. King of England#-.his Victpry,j with about i2,oco Archers and I^ea at Arm's, o-ver Philip of France, and teoioOO Frenchmen;j liis vanquiihing King John of France, and takinghim and his Son Prifoners 5 his love to the Fail ofKent’s fair Daughter, and Marriage with i.ci: Be-J ing a Hiilory fad of great and noble Actions, hiLove Sc Arms, to the honour of the Engiilh Nation;G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY j. & M. ROBERTSON, 179?.*^+ ^ ^ >^* -IflT H Efamous history;OF THEBLACK PRINCCHAP. I.How tbs French King, upon King Edward thethird’s coming to the Crown, fent to him tocorns and do him Homage, for the Province 'of Guyene the Englijh held in France ,- howbe refufed it, but laid claim to the Crown ofFrance : entered into Confederacy with theneighbouring Princes : Invaded them withpowerful Armies. His Love to the Countefsof Salijbury. The Order of the Garter, he.^yTHEH the Englifli valour was moreyly renowned than that of other na¬tions, our heroes brought a terror on theirenemies, proud France then trembled, andthe Englilh Lyon grafped with fo itrong ahand, that all the draggling of that King¬dom,The Life and glorious Actions, See. 3dom, was not able to refeue them from•becoming the trophies of our conquering1 Princes.King Edward the third* in his Father’si life time, took 'upon him the title of kingI of England, when he was but fifteen years,llof age; and fhewed much of a martial fpi-j rit, and promifed great things to vhe world;ifor having warred fuc'cefsfully in Scotland,ilsnd brought that to his terms, their Kingjfubmitted, and holding Fealty of him, Phi¬lip the French King, began to milt ruff hisigrowing greatnefs, and thinking whilfl he.was young, to put a check to his valour,fent to demand homage for the province cf■ Guyene, held by him in France, but he not(only refufed it, but laid claim to the crown,'las coming to him in right of Queen Ifabekjla, his mother, being Nenhew to Charlesjithe fourth, brother-to the,faid Ifebella. Tothis the French oppofed their Salique Law,Iwherein it was provided, that no womantphould inherit the Crown of France : But[ithis being look’d on, as contrived to hindernthe fucceflion of the Englifh Kings in their!narriages with the daughters of France: avar was proclaimed, the King quartering theinns of France with thofe of England, andaying claim to the Crown. Thjs bufinefsvas extraordinary weighty, King Edwardcraved the advice of the earl of Hanault,father to Philippa his Queen, who with hisbrother.4 The Life and glorious Aclions ■brother, procured King Edward to be Vjtar ||General of the Empire, fo that, withoutbeing contronl’di he might command thenobles, and common people of thofe coun¬tries, ta further his purpofe in the intend¬ed war. ^BiU how fecretly foever thefe things werecarried, the French had private notice ofwhat was doing, and flopped the army hehad railed, at the importunity of Pope Be¬nedict the eleventh, from palling into theHoly Land, to war againft the Turks andSaracens, refolving to defend his own coun¬try from the florm. In the mean time, kingEdward fo fettled his affairs, that in thefpring, he landed in France, with an armyof 27,000 men, bringing a terror on thecountry; tho’ the French had an army of6o,ojo foldiers to oppofe him, being ac¬companied with three kings, five dukes, fix ,and twenty earls, and more than four thou-- fand lords and knights; and fo both armiesdrawing into the field, and approaching eachother ; as the bloody blaft was about to befounded, by the mediation of Jane, coun-' tefs of Hanault, filler to king Philip, and ;m'other to king Edward’s Queen, feparated.from each other without linking a blow, touthe great difeontent of the Endifh, who fullof valour thirfled to begin the battle.King Edward laid afide his pretenfions,but, hearing the French king had fent out!,a greafl, a great fleet, who robbed the Engiifh mer¬chants, being full of valour, and reckoningthe French as his fubjefts, and inferior ini arms, efpecialiy on the Teas, fet upon theirr whole navy, with'fuch couvage. that aftert a long and bloody fight, very few' of theFrench {hips efcaped, but were either taken,1 funk, or burnt by the Englilh, with ’ e./ nS! fiderable Iq/s on our fide. This g-r viclory difeouraged the French, and mig! •; tily encouraged-the Englifh, fo that the king| landed at Sluys in triumph, and going fromi thence to Gaunt, where his Queen lay, and(the Black Prince, was accompanied with yI earls, 8 bifliops, 28 barons, 200 knights,4000 men at arms, and 9000 archers; hejoined the duke of Brabant, who command¬ed 22,000 men, and Jaques Dartweil; whocommended 6o,cco men, lord Tglqueinontar.d others^ - 'With this army he befieged the city ofTourney with great valour, (defended for'ten weeks) ; in which time the French kingappeared, not to relieve it; however, by themediation, of lane d’ Valiois, mother to theQu cn c f Lngl: nd, a truce was conclttded;but that expired, loon after tKefe delays, thewar began in eaniefF.Duiing thefe tnmfactions, the King re¬turned home to beat the t;ccts out of Eng¬land, who in his abvr-ce, invaded if, underthe leading of David their king, fell defpe-ratqlyrately in love with the cc atefs of Saliflju-ry, having delivered her from the fiege laidto her caftle of Roxborrough ; he difarmedhinrfelf, and with ten or twelve lords, en¬tered the caflle, where the Countefs fo en-flatned his heart, that by amorous wooing,he endeavoured to perfuade her, to eafe hispaflion, but the beauteous lady with mildentreaties, Itrove to make him fee-his error;but fuch was his defire, and her denialswere fo refolute, that difcontentediy he lefther, yet love hili prevailing, he wrote thefollowing letter to her.Fair Countess,r O U R eyes have enthrall’d myheart, and arnidll the alarms of“ war, my thoughts are chained to fee“ thy beauty ; take companion on a King,“ which, nothing on earth, but your peer-“ lefs felf, can bring to the fubmiffion of a“ fuppliant: I own your virtues are great,“• yet, to fave the life of a Monarqh, what“ fhould not one who is all goodnefs like■“ you do? Let me entreat you then to fake L“ compaffion on the fufferings of my mind,“ that I may be reftored to my former“ peace, and become pleafant to my friends,“ and a terror to the enemies of my coun¬trythe Black Prince. 744 try: So in expectation you will relent,“ 1 reft in hopes of enjoying that bicffing I44 fo earneftly with for.”Tour devoted love, the* a King.The Countefs having weighed the con-tents of this letter, was troubled in mind :iShe knew the King was married to a fairland virtuous Princefs, and that he fought,by unlawful love to defile her bed; this puther in a paiTion, confidering, if fhe yielded,how much it would turn to her difhenour :jAt other times fhe confidered, fhe was hisSubject, and knew not to what force histaffion might carry him ; yet careful of herdiaflity, fhe returned him this anfwerThe COUNTESS’S ANSWER.My Sovereign!tT~'\ O U LI) you but conceive whatDifturbance your letter wrote inmy mind, you would ceafe to afHidt me,who fo highly honour you in all virtuousways : but in this matter, without aviolation of my honour, cannot conde-feend to pleafe you, confidering you aremarried to a virtuous Olieen, who lovesv. 7and honours you ; ceafe then, great Sir,to perfecute me with your love, that can-1 bj L!j»“ not be lawfully returned ; I am indeed“ your fubjecl, and you may command mytc life and fortune, but not in a difhonour-able way, fo humbly intreating you to'cc weigh thefe things, I remain your afilict-Ct ed fubjecl and fervant.”Salisbury. |The King upon receipt of this letter, was 1not a Iktle abaflred ; at length concludes, Itime, and rich prefents, might overcomeher feats-;- he trufted his confident, the lord ,Montague, to bring her to court, in hon¬our of whofe pief nce, the King caufedfporrs and paftinies; and at laft won fo Jmuch upon her, as to dance with him:.!when at the end of the dance, a bln? rib¬bon, which {he had for a garter, falling oft,, the King (looped and took it up : at which ,the Countefs blufhed, and the nobles Anil- :■ed: Whereat the King Arid. HON l SO IT rQJJi MALY PLNCE. Vowing, that, ;the greatefl of them fhould do honour to fthe filken tye, and creating his fon Edward •the Black Prince, Prince of Wales, he elta-blifhed the Order' of the Garter, con¬fining the number to twenty-fix, of which,-.,himfelf, and his fucceffors were Sovereigns, ■which Order is yearly folemnized, with, jmagnificence, in the King’s caflle at Wind-7 >sfor.C H A P.iC H A P. II.,The birth of the victorious Black Prince, hisactivity in his young days, his ftrjl warsunder his Father in France. How kingEdward challenged the French King, andon what account he refufed it.RING E - Edward the Black Prince,}l^ was born at Greenwich, the i4frh ofMay, 1336, being the el deft (on ol kingEdward the third, by his beauteous QueenPhilippa : At his birth a blazing liar ap¬peared with a fiery tail, like a bloody fword,pointing towards France ; the lea overflow¬ed its banks in many places, the like'neverhaving been feen on our coafl.The King his father, brought him not upnicely and tenderly, but as foon as hg hadpaCTed his fwadling clothes, inured him tohardihips; for he was fcarce fifteen yearsold, when the King took him to the wars,both again ft Scotland t^nd France ; and ja-ques Dartwell was fo taken with his manlyafpcct, that he labour’d to depofe Boys earlof Flanders, as unfit for government, andplace the Prince over thofe provinces, with'fo much earndtuefs, and magnifying theyoung Prince’s early valour, to that degree,that fo far encouraged their hatred, thatthey incenfed the common people again fthim, which took fo effectually, that he nofooner_ fooner came to his houfe at Gaunt, but ituas befet by the multitude, when coiningout to appeafe them, they in a fury murder¬ed him; and this far a time, much hinderedking Edward’s affairs, for the Flemings re¬volted from him, but he did not regard it,sefolving by his own power, to thruft hisfword into the bowels of France.The King being informed, that John thefon of the French King, had belieged thecaltie of Aguillon in Gafcony; took thePrince with him, and a confiderable army,at whofe approach, the French raifed theliege and P.sd; after this he paffbd into Nor¬mandy, took the city of Harfleure, and be¬llowed the fpoil upon the foldiers; took the •great and rich city of Gaene in Normandy,in which were the earls of fankerville, Ewe,and Guyen: Thefe were made prifoners to►Sjr Thomas Holland, an Englifh Knight,with one eye, who fold them to the King,,and they were fent prifoners to England ;The Englilh army being thus victorious, paf-fed the gates of Abbeville, and St Valary, ■but they were for want of guides entangledwith the river on one fide, and the Frencharmy on the other. This made the King andPrince confidt with the French prifnners,promifing rewards, if they could find any }pafBble fords in the river ; which one Go-.Jpin of Greece undertook to do, but whenthe King had marched his army thither, hefound\ 1of Edward the Black Prlrlce, i *found it defended by i ?,,ooo French; yetwhen the fea was ebb’d, he, with the Prince1 and the whole army, put themfe'^es into thew-ater, as likeways on the other fide did theFrench, fo that the'fight was doubtful; butthe Englifh at length prevailing," wkh gr ••.t.:i (laughter of the enemy, purfued them in full --■ -chafe a league: and fo the EnglUh army ha¬ving pa{fed the river, refolved to abide fie,whole power of France, tho’ fix •times theirnumber, and dare them to a bartie, KTns' Edward to his immortal honour, feut ai challenge to the French King, to fight m nin fingle combat, but he exrulhd it cun-M ningly, 'by alledging it was fern to" Em, bythe name of Philip de Vallois, and not byIthe title of King of France, and thereforelie fhould betray his royal dignity in accept¬ing it. •C H A. P. III.1 How king Edward marched with a fmad ar¬my into France, and m t Philip the FrenchKing, with an army of 100,000 men; howthe battle was. fought, and the French rout¬ed by the Black Prince,TH E French King relying on his num¬bers, thinking the Englifh thus enfan-11 g'ed in the heart of his country, were en-1 traped in a fnare, and could not avoid de-Itruflion,i5 The Life and .glorious Adi ionsfhuiclron, which battle gained, wouldquell the Enulilh claim to the French dia- ’L & «'dern. With >thefe hopes he drew all hisforces near king lid ward’s army, in a fpa-cious fi'.'k', rtpr the town of Creffy: KingEdward and the Black Prince proceededwith all diligence, to put their army in rea-dinefk that he might have the order of bat-tle^ to this the King confented. d he wholearmy immediately upon this.,was dividedinto three battles, which the Prince caufedto be fo barrocaded behind, with the car-1 riages and carts, that the enemy fhould-notbe able, if they enclofed them with theirnumbers, to break into the rear.Being thus ordered, the approach of the■ night hindered theif joining in battle j fothey fpeir the night in prayers and mode¬rate refrefhinen? whilft the King and Prince-in difgptle, went from tent to tent, a Iking ithe private fold, rs, what they thought of |the number of the French army, with ma- I >ny fuch queftions, how the King and Prince ■dood affeefed. /Idle foldiers replied, as for the French ^numbers they minded them not, for they.lihould fdon be leflened, and brought to con-fufron.The next morning the fignal for battle Ivras given on both fides, to begin the fight, |;but either for want of Ikill, or makingmore hade than good f'peed, they were put I: iinto#of Edward the Black Prince. 1*3' into difon^er 'by the Englifh archers, thegreateft part of them ilain, and the reft foonI defeated and compelled to retire, they rufh-Ied into the French King’s battle, and fo dis¬ordered it, that the Englilh without mercyput moil of them to the fword.This bad fuccefs did not fo difcourage! the French, but trailing to their numbers,: they came refoiutely on,’ charged the Prince’sj battle with great fury, but he Hourly repel-i led them, doing wonders, fo encouragedj his men, that they fought like lions, by| means whereof, they made havock of theFrench men, who could not obfcrve any,| order at all, nor help themfelves by any in-j genious policy of war, yet thofe that camet. to (lop the gap that death had made, prcfs-i ed hard on, and many of them met the likefj fate; however, the preying numbers gavej no leifure to the Prince nor his atuftams tobreathe, nor take any refpite, or refrelh-ment, fo that the braye Prince, though hewas full of incomparable valour, bei. g dif-treffed for want of breathing time, lent tothe King to come to his relief.Said the King, tell him from me, that hemuft expect no aid, for this fhall be the day,in which he jhall either win honour, or loofehis life.When the Prince was informed what the14 ^^j^Lif^n^LerioU^AcUon^^^King faid, and animated with frefh hopesof victory, they redoubled their courage,and fought, with undaunted fpirits, that theFrenchmen ned, and were fo purfued, thatthe greater part of their numerous army laybreathlefs on the ground ; and on the chafetwo Marftials of England, encountered witha multitude of the inhabitants of Regmerrv,Abbeville and Roan, who ignorant of thedefeat, were marching to the French army,of whom 7000 were flam, and the reft fa- |ved themfelves by flight: the next day theywere charged by the Archbifhop of Roan,who conduced a ftrong army, whom theyworfted, killing great numbers of theul; theFrench, King being forced haftily to fly tofave his life.The King and Prince marched throughthe country without any oppofition, andbegirt the ftrong; town of Calais with anarmy ot 20,000 men, bur finding the pafs-ages flopped, he feat to challenge the Kingto battle in the fair field, as knowing thetown could not hold out. King Edward fenthim word, he never feared to meet him inthe field, as to his coaft he had proved; butnot knowing his advantage at this time, hewould give him the fatislattion he requir¬ed. Upon this, the French King broke uphis army and departed, and the CalaifiansdeTp iiring of relief being forely opprefledwith famine, humbled themfelves to KingEdward, JEdward, and fought his mercy ; whereup¬on he commanded, that fix of the principalinhabitants (hould come bare-headed, andf bare-legged, with ropes about their necks,and bring the keys of the town and caftle,which- they did: The keys he received, butcommanded the perfons to bedianged ; butat the interceflion of the Queen and Prince,th<jy were pardoned, and he made Sir An-I; drew de Futt, the Lombard, captain of it;I foon after this, Philip de Vallois the Frenchi Xing died, and his fon John was crowned.CHAP. IV.. How King Edward and the Black Prince re-! turned to England in triumph, and how be¬ing entertained at dinner by the Earl ofKent, the Prince fell in love with hisDaughter, called the Fair Maid of Kent.f/’ING Edward having fettled his affairsPW in France, came to England with theQueen and Prince, and landing at Dover,dining with the earl of Kent, the PrinceS fixed his eyes on Joan, the earl’s daughter,whofe beauty was fo admirable, that fhewras called the fair maid of rent. ThisLady foon made our Prince become enam¬oured of her, yet, not knowing how his fa- vther might take it, who defigned to mat-Vi—i ui LA}'. JJU" '1.!him to fome foreign Princefs, he at that \time bridled his paltion all he could, yet hiskind, dilcourfes to her, and the powerful .language of his eyes, made her fee fhe wasnot indifferent to him: but fearing fo bravea Prince, and next heir to the crown, ra¬ther had his eves on her for luff, than law-ful love in marriage, which afflicted the ;tender Lady : But the Prince had his mindfar from fuch thoughts, arid was perplex¬ing himfelf, how he might bring about hisdefign of marriage with her, fearing, if hedelayed to make known his mind, (he. ig¬norant of his pafiion might give herfelf up \t3 the arms of another; for he was fenfi- "ble, that the moll exalte l beauty in thekingdom, could not want adorers : Andtherefore, knowing, the French wars wouldJo on require his prefence, he refolved to lether know his unfeigned love for her, andJabour to gain her confent, and remove allhis difficulties that might ftand in the wayof his happinefs,1'he Prince came to the 'art’s houfe, and "found the precious jewel of his heart, at- 1tended only by a waiting woman, the reft jof the family being abroad. She no fooner 1fixed her eye5 on him, but her countenance jchanged, - as fearing fome rafh defign hadbrought him thi?her, to make an attempt jon her hono r r. The Prince perceiving thealteration of her countenance, took the op¬portunity[portunity when her woman was gone, tpfay, “ Ah ! iv'Iadam, why fear you him,“ who himfelf, in fp'ite of courage that has“ been ^afcribed to him, approaches you“ with fear :* Let pie befeecii thee, fair La-i “ dy, to think 1 iiitend you no hatm.”| 'j he: Lady obferving his mpdeft behaviour,l/j welcomed his Highnefs to her Father’sif houfe, ordered her woman to bring wine,It and other reffelhments. ri he Prince having. taken a fender repaft, entreated her toi; walk with him into the garden, which fhe» confented to, and after a turn or two in ai cool arbour, fetched a very deep figh. This(j the Lady perceiving, intreated him to tellher the caufe. The Prince at this favour¬able opportunity, faid, “ Ah 1 Lady, it is in“ your power, to eafe'the doubts and fears“ that labour in my mind. I wifi it may,“ faid the Lady fmiling, tho’ not without“ bluflies; But I cannot be your phyfician“ uulefs I know your grief. Ah! fair Lady,“ faid the Prince, fince 1 firfl let eyes on“ your beauties, my heart has been your“ captive, and this opportunity 1 have ta-“ ken, to know from your beautiful lips,‘‘ whether you will relieve me by your“ love? Alas! my Lord, replied the Lady,“ hill blulhing, for that love which is in“ my power to give, you Ihotild not pine;“ but a Prince whole royalty may bring“ him a Queen with kingdoms to her dow-“ ry, will never be mine. Moll kind Lady, j“ laid the Prince, not but that love I pre- :“ tend is challe, and it is you above ail“ the queens on earth, that 1 apply myfelf“ to, to make me happy. Oh, conlider,“ faid file, how dangerous ’tis for me to ;“ entertain your love, fince the King’s an- ■“ ger may break out on my father’s family“ to their ruin. Doubt not thou bell ofwomen: I will Hand between them and“ you, and perilli, ra,ther than any harm“ lhall betal you, only let me be allured“ of your love and conllancy, and at my“ return, I will lo work the matter, that“ our marriage flrall not be hindred.”■ 'CHAP. V.How the Black Prince went to France withan armyi won many Jlrotig places^ and o-vcrthrew the French King’s army nearPoicliers, took him and his Jen Philip pri-foners. His return to England, and mar¬riage with the Fair Maid of Kent.U T now the trumpets found again forwar, and the Prince mult pafs theleas: and fo the lovers parted with vows ofeternal conllancy: For a truce that hadbeen made with France expiring, he wasfenf writh an army into Gafcony, whereland-ojha zvani Blach Pnkh. \y ' 'landing, he breathed fuch terror on that j lprovince, that the French grew heart'efs,lb that a great number of towns and caftlesfell into his hands; this made the new kingJohn, halten his army into the field, notdoubting to opprefs the Prince, whole army! confided of not above ioor i2,cco men ;and fo accompanied by his youngeft fon,he marched towards Poidliers, where theEnglilji army lay, and the battle began withgreat fury: The French King had dividedhis army into four battles, who as it wasin their turns, came and fought with muchivalour. But the thick fnot of the EnglilhI arrows galling their horfes, they threw!; their riders. This loon put their cavalryi into diforder, and were trodden to deathi' by their own friends, and fuch as wouldj: have preffed forward to make proof of their!i| valour, were driven back by thofe .that re-i; tired from the fury of the Englilh Ihot.However, the French King’s own battleI was better ordered than the reft, who per-1 formed wonderful fates, being animatedthereunto by their King, who exceeded allhis nobles that day. But the Black Princeand his battle, which was fo well rnarlhai-led, that no dilbrder troubled it, that theFrench men were not able to Hand before! them ; for the Prince, infpired by the love: of his fair miltrefs, had vowed ere the bat¬tle began, he would that day acquit him-feif1 ■valiant knivhtfelf like a ,down his enemies before himand bearing,wherever hecame, after a bloody fight, the French foi¬ling imo a ilrange diforder, fled : that bat¬tle in which their King,' and Philip his fontfought, being opened, the Englilh men en¬tered, beating down all before them. SirDenis Morebeck took *the King and his Sonprifoners j fo that he was pulled about, tillthe Black Prince came up, and caufed theirrage to ceafe, commanding that none fnouldiufult the King or his Son, provided forthem honourable attendants, and fuppliedthem with all things they wanted; fix thatKing John faid, never prifoners met with abetter conqueror, and thought himfelf hap¬py in foiling into fuch hands.In thjs battle a great number were (lain,and above 10,000 common foldicrs weretaken, prifoners, all which, with the fpoilsof the field, the Prince 'freely gave them,lb that there was not a poor man in the ar¬my, but every one of them had as * mucingold, lilver and jewejs, foe. as gave themfull fodsfoctibn for the blood they loll: andhereupon the Prince marched with his ar¬my and prifoners to Burdeaux, to ‘give anaccount of his victory: nor was he want¬ing to fend a particular fetter to his fairmiftfefs, who often bedew’d her rofy U: ■ kswith tears for his abfence. The words were. tilde“ FAIR.—_—_of Edward the Black Prince. 2 ru 17» AIR E S T of creatures, this is to“ _|J let you krrow that fortune has fa-“ voured me with fuccefs,'and has beenI “ leind to let me reap frelh laurels with my1 “ fword, that I may lay them at your feet,which lhall be as fpeedy, as the great af-“ fairs I have on hand will permit: In theAmean time, not‘doubting your conltancy“ and love, I am your faithful and obedi-| “ ent fervant.’,EDWARD.This fair Lady receiving the letter, kilfedtt.a thoufand times, writing a loving an-Ifwer to him, if he had any compaffion forher life, that he would not too far hazardhimfelf among the. hands of his enemies.J The Prince received the aflurance of hismiltrefs’s love with great joy, and to com¬fort her, halted into ngland with all hisroyal prifoners, where (for a time) he wasroyally entertained, and then removed tothe caftle of Windfor.The King of England and the BlackPrince frequently vifiting him; which nobleufage, begat lafting love and amity betweenthem, and the Prince, impatient to delayhis intended marriage, taking the King ina good humour, fell on his knees, andhumbly belbught him for all his toils andhazards ThTW an^glcnous Aa ionshazards he had undertaken, to grant himone requeft, without naming it. The King 'hereupon raifing him up, faid Son, I knowyour virtue is honourable. Then faid thePrince, l take your Majefty at your word ;my ambition is far from a crown, all I re-quelt is, that I may have the earl of Kent’sfair daughter to be my wife: the King wasamazed at this requeft ; yet feeing him ear-neftly bent upon it, and hearing what hadpaffed between them, he confented. So theEarl, his Countefs, and Daughter, -were ,fent for to court, and their confent being „eafily had, the marriage was celebrated withall imaginable pomp, fo that night the love- 3ly pair enjoyed their heart’s content; fromthe fruits of this love, fprurig a fon named ■Richard, who fucceeded his grandfather inthe kingdom ; and after a Jong reign, wasdepofed by Henry Duke of Lancafter, whotook upon him the crown, under the titleof Henry the fourth, and being depofed,was murdered in the caftle of Pomfret, by jSir Piercy of Exton ; but not degenerating |from his heroic father in valour, leizing an |haibert by main ftrength out of their hands,:he killed four of them, ere they difpatched ;him But to return. The French King andhis Son, having been four years prllbners ;in England, made feveral overtures to bing !Edward for their releafe: but Charles theFrench King’s eldeft Son, having gottenthe -■ 1i! jij. mm i tifLa. —i the agency into hi* own hands,. wouldi not agree with his Father ; whereupon theI French King was committed a clofe prifon-er, to the Tower, and King Edward with1 the Black Prince failed over with an army,l| wafting the country very dreadfully ; - foi that many towns were yielded to him, byi which he compelled the regent, to becomepetitioner to him for a peace, and it wasconcluded on thefe articles.I. That the French King ftiould pay fourhundred thoufand pounds Sterling for hisranfom.III. That no King of France fliould aidjjthe Scots againft England, in any invafion,nor the Englilh aifift the Flemings in anywar againft France.III. That the King of England ftiouldifreely enjoy the the territories of Gafcoin,SlGuyene, with the precincls, territories, caf-Itles, forts, and towns, thereto belonging:ix\lfo the cities of Poi&iers, and Peregords,cthe earldom of Bigrot, and Guyeus, thefcities of Limoges, ’ Thorbes, Guaras, Agu,Angolfom, Arguomois, Ryuern, Courus,(the lordfhips of Xantoigne, Crumefen. Ha-imes, Ony, lyiontrel, with the feignories ofICalais, Marguife, Sandgate, and Cologne.C H A P.24 The Life and glorious Aclions, &c.CHAP.VI.How the Black Prince overthrew the armyin Spain and Franee^ and rejlored the dc-pofed King of Cajlile to his throne, &c.THE Black Prince's fame fpread overthe world, he was fued by did: re fled ;kings to relieve them, and Peter King of3Caftile being overthrown in battle, by Hen-!ry his brother, aflifling under hand the newFrench King, humbly imploring him to reinflate him in his kingdom. The Princeknowing him to be the rightful fovereignof the kingdom, fo far compaflionated hiscaufe, that he railed an army and went tore-in throne him: (But to conclude my hif-ltory) The Black Prince, fierce in war, butmild in peace, being dead,. \ing Edwardcreated Richard Prinie of Wales, and b(caufe he was young, he appointed the re¬gency to the Duke of Lancafler, 'till hicame to years, and being worn out withage, and grief, for the death of the BiacifPrince, he died and was buried at Weit-minfler. Thus have I fulfilled my pro-mife, in a trde account of this renownefhiftory.FINIS.