PAISLEY:PUBLISHED BY CALDWELL & SON.1842. "* SSWV »c US4PTHE NEWBI B E E.'Ma'A• t <• - V $ •■^ ■'. v 'MX L. . „®>- J' ife*" &The Creation of Tight.Gen. i. 1—3.In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth*And the earth was without form, and void : and darknesswas upon the face of the deep: and the Spirit of Godmoved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Letthere be light: and there was light.2 The Division of the Waters.Gen. i. 6, 7.And God said Let therp be a firmament in the midstof the waters, and let it divide the wa'ers from the waters.And God made the firmament, and divided the waterswhich were under the firmament, from the waters whichwere above the firmament: and it was so.3 Woman Formed.Gen. ii. 22, 23, 25.And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man,made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. AndAdam said, This is now bone of my bone, and flesh of myflesh; she shall be called woman, because she was takenout of man. And they were both naked, the man and hiswife, and were not ashamed.4 Adam naming the creatures.Gen. ii. 12, 20.And out the ground the Lord formed every beast ofthe fleld, and every fowl of the air, and brought them untoAdam, to say what he would call them : and1 whatsoeverAdam called every living eifeature, that was the rratn'ethereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to thefowl of the air, and to every beast of the field. *i5 The Serpent deoeiveth Eve.Gkn. iii. 4, 6.And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not•urely die. And when the woman saw that the tree wasgood for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and atree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruitthereef and did eat; and gave also unto her husband withher, and he did eat.8 Adam and Eve driven from the garden.Gen. iii. 24, 25.Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the gar¬den of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.So he drove out the roan: and he placed at the east ofthe garden of Eden cherubims and a flaming sword whichturned every way, te keep the way of the tree ef life.® Babel built. %Gen. xi. 4, 8.And thnjr •«!(]. ( o to, let us build us a city, and atower whose top may reach unto heaven; and let usmake us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon theface of the whole earth. So the Lord scattered themabroad from thence upon'the face of all the earth: andthey left >ff to build the city.7 Noah entering the Ark. , ,Gbn. vii. 7—10.And Noah went in, and his sons, and his sons' wireswith him, in the aik, because of the waters of the flood.Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and offowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth.There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, themale and the female, as God had commanded Noah.I9 Lot and his Daughters leave Sodom.. (jen. xix. 15, 30.And when the niorriinjj arose, the atipel hastened Lot,saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two dauchters, whichar e here: lest thou Ire consumed in the. iniquity of thecity. And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in themountain,'and his two dauirhters with him; for he fearedto dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt iri a cave with his twodaughters.10 Abraham Offereth Isaac. 9Ge.s. xxii. 10—12.And Abraham stretched Jqrth Iris hand, and took theknife to slay hi^soin And the angel of the Lord called,unto .Abraham out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abra¬ham. And he said, Heie ant 1. And he said,, Lay notthine hand upon tire lad, neither do pny thing unto him :for now I know tlrat thou fearest God, seeing thou hastnot withheld thy son, thine only son, Irom me.7»- Gen. xxxvii 23,24.And it came to pass, when Joseph was come uhto hiabrethren, that they stripped Joseph of his coat,of many colours, that was on him. And they took him,and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, therewas no water in it,.osrblnb a'vraidsH sdr12 Jotteph tempted l>y Potiphar $ Wife.Gen. xxxix. 7, 10, 12.And it came to pass after these things, that hie master’/wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; amf'she said, Lie wit!me. And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day bVday, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or t<be with her. And she caught him by his garment in heband, and fled, end got him not.bnitIS The finding of Moses.Exod. ii. 5, 6.And the daughter of Eharoah came there to wash her¬self at the river; and her maidens walked along by theriver side: and when she saw the ark among the flags,she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she had open¬ed it, she saw the child: and behold, the babe wept.And she had compassion upon kirn, and said, This is oneof the Hebrew’s children.14 Moses smiteth the rock.Exod. xvii. 5, 6.And the Lord said unto Moses, Go on before the peo-»le, and take with thee of the elders of I sracl; and thyod, wherewith thou smotestthe river, take in thy hand,,nd go. Behold, I will stand before thee there upon theoek in Horeb; and thou shalt smite the rock, and therehall come water out of it, that the people may drink.Vnd Moses did so ia the sight of the elders of Israel.t15 Motett receiveth the tables.Exod. xxiv. 1, 4.And the Lord said unto Moses, H^thee wo ^tohles'tbe^wo^ds^hat were*in the first tables whidhtho^k b * And be hewed two tables of stone bke uand took in his hand the two tables of stone.l(j Jericho compassed.Josh. vi. 12, 13. • uAnd Joshua rose early in the morning, and the ?>•«took np the ark of the Lord. And seven P™*1*, bean gseven trumpets of rams horns before the ark »f the Loj bwent on continually, and blew wnh the trumpets, andthe armed men went before them ; and the rereward cam,after the ark of the Lord, the priests going on, and biowiag with the trumpet*.18 Samsons Death.Judges xvi. 29, 30.Ami Sanisou took hold of the two middle pillars uponwhich the house stood, and on which it was borne up, ofthe one with his right hand, and the other with ids left.And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. Andhe bowed himself with all ids might; aud the house fellupon the lords, and upon all the people that were within.17 The sun and moon stand still.Josh. x. 12, 13.Then spake Joshua to the Lord, in the day when theLord delivered up the Amorites before the children ofIsrael, and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand thoustill upon Gibeon'; and thou, Moon, in the valley of A-jalon. And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed,until the people had avenged themselves upon their ene¬mies.] 9 David hSieth Goliath.1 Sam. xvii. 49, 51.And David pnt liin hand in fiis hag, and took thence aatone, and slung it, and smote the Philistine in hie fore¬head ; and he fell upon his face to the earth. ThereforeDavid ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took hissword, and drew it out of the slieath thereof, and slewhim, and cut off his head therewith.20 Absalom caught up in the oak.2 Sam. xviii. 9.And Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule wentunder the thick branches of a great oak, and his headcaught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between theheaven and the earth; and the mule that was under himwent away.“1221 Solomon's Judgement.1 Kings iii. 25, 26.And the king said, Divide the living child in two, andgive half to the one, and half to the other. Then sp'ikethe woman whose the living child was unto the king, (forher bowels yearned upon her son,) and she said, O mylord, give her the living child, and in no wise slay it; hutthe other said, Let it be neither mine nor thine, but di>vide it.22 Solomon's Temple.1 Kings vi. 2, 3.And the house which king Solomon built for the Lord,the length thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadtht thereof twenty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits.And the porch before the temple of the house, twentyl cubits was the length thereof, according to the breadthof the house; and ten cubits was the breadth thereof be¬fore the house.S3 Elijah fed by ravens.1 Kings icvii. 3, 4, 6.Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thy-lelf by the brook Cheiith, that is before Jordan And itball be, that thou shall drink of the brook; and I haveommantled the ravens to feed thee there. And the rav-ns brought him bread and flesh in the morning, andread and flesh in the evening: and he drank of therook.The Syrians overthrown.1 Kings xx. 20, 21.And they slew every man his man: and the Syriansed, and Isiael pursued them; and Benhadad the king ofyna escaped on horse with the horsemen. And theing ol Israel went out, and smote the horses and chari*Is, and slaw the Syrians with a greet slaughter.25 Elijah is taken up into heaven.2 Kings ii. 11. 12.And it came to pass, as they ftill went on, and talkeithat, behold, there appeared a cl ariot of fire, and horseof fire, and parted them both asunder; and Elijah weiiop by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, anhe cried, My father, my father ! the chariot of Israel, anthe horsemen thereof.26 Jezebel eaten bp dogs.2 Kings ix. 35, 3(5.And they went to bury Jezebel; but they found nmore of her than the scull, and the feet, and the palms cher hands. Wherefore they came aeain, and told himand he said, This is the word of the Lord, which he spakby his servant F.tijah the "lishbite, saying, In the poitidof Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel.163 Daniel cast into the den of lions.Dan. vi. 21, 22, 23.hen said Daniel unto the kinsr, O king, live for ever.God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lion’sth, that they have not hurt me; forasmuch as beforej innocency was found in me; and also before thee, Q>, have I done no hurt. 1 lien was the king exceed*?lad for him, and commanded that they should takaiel up out of tho tlen.Delsh'jzzer’s Feast.Dan. v. 3—.5. e V.e king and his princes, his wives and hia concubines,J"k Wlne> and praised the gods of gold, an.l of silver,,rass’ of'rotn- of ttrood, and of stone. In the samer came forth fingers of a man's hand, and wrote overinst the candlestick upon the plaster of the wall of the' * 8 Palace ’ an<1 the ^'ng saw the part of the hand that1«#9 Jonah U swallotced by a fish.Jonah i. 17. ii. 10.Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallowJonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three dand three nights. And the Lord spake unto the fish,it romited out Jonah upon the dry land.30 The Salutation.M ark i. SO, 31, 82.And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, forhast found favour with God. And, behold, thou uconceive in thy womb, and bring forth a eon, andcall his name Jesus. He shall be great, and shall be vled the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God shall *■at* him the throne of his father David.iITWise men enquire after Christ.Matt. ii. 11, 12.when they were come into the house, they *twtung child with Mary hie Mother, and fell dowaorshipped him; and when they had opened their•e, they presented unto him gifts; g'Id, frankin-and myrrh. And being warned of God in a dreamicy should not return to Herod, they departed intoiwn country another way.The Baptism of Jesus.Luke iii. 21, 22.ir when all the people were baptised, it came tothat Jesus also being baptised, and praying, thei was opened. And the Holy Ghost descended inly shape, like a dove, upon him; and a voice cameleaven which said, Thou art my beloved Sen; inam well pleased.■IkBajtUt Beheaded.,9«iion Matt. xlv. 6, 7, 8. ^But when Herod’s birth-day was kept, the dailof Herodias danoed before them, epd pleased 11thereupon he promised with an oath to give her 1soever she would ask. And she, being before hist nof her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's beJtcharger. ,Luke x. 33, 34. ,,A certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came wheiwas: and when he saw him, he had compassion onj<And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pounioil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and l*n|him to an inn, and took care of him. ,1535 Christ's sermon on the mount.Matt. v. 1, 2, 3. 4j And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a moun-and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:ind he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,'!■ Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the king-Ijona of heaven,' Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall bo com-pried, &c. &c.j 36 The Tempest. ? fJCMark iv 37, 38, 39.And there arose a great stoim of wind, and the wavespeat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was!n the hinder part of the ship, asleep on the pillow; andJiey awoke him, arid said unto him, Master, caiest thoujot that we perish? And he arose, and rebuked thewind, and said unto the sea, Peace, he still And the'wind ceased, and thero was a great calm.38 The prodigal son.Luke xv. 21, 22, 23.And tke son said unto him, Father, I have •ina«against Heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more wortlto be called thy son. But the fattier said to his servantBring forth the best robe, and put it on him ; and putring on his band, and shoes on his feet. And bring hithitha fattod calf, and kill it; and let as cat and ba merry.37 Christ healelh a bloody issue.Luke viii. 49, 50.And when the woman saw that she was not hid, cl Icame trembling, and falling down before him, sha tildared unto him before all the people for what cause sihad touched him, and how she was healed immsdiate||And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: t jfaith hath made the whole; go in peace.tlIS9 Tht parable of Lazarus.Luke xri. 23, 21, 22.uAnd there was a certain beggar named Lazarut, whichw laid at his gate, full of sores. And desiring to be fedith the crumbs which fell from the rich man’s table:^treover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And itime to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried bye Aangels into braham’s bosom.1 40 The last supper.Matt. zxri. 26, 27, 28.And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and hies,ed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said.Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, andave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all oft: For this is my blood of the New Testament, whicha shed for many, for the remission of sias.2-341Jesus is accused before Pilate.Luke xxiij. 1, 2, 3.And the wliol.e multitude of them arose, and led h iunto Pilate. And they be^an to accuse him, saying.found this fellow perverting the nation, rnd forbiddinggive tribute to Caesar, saying that be himself is Christ!ing. And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou theAnd he answered him and sajd, Thou stKiof the Jews ?est it.Mark xv. 24, 25, 26, 27.And when they had crucified him, they parted his gajnents, casting lots upon them, what every man shoutake. And it was the third hour, and they crucified hitAnd the superscription of his accusation was written oveThe King of the Jews. And with him they ciuCily twthieves; the one on his right hand, and the other on bleft. .eait V* crotMioirt wit ,vna« vA Me 4•2343 The LastI Matt. xxv. 31, '32, 33. ;I When the Son of Man ahall eome in his glhry^and alle holy angels with him, then shall he sif 4ipon‘1tfeerone of his glorv. And before 1 Irh s' all he gafhvred allitions ; and he shall separate them one front-another,a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats; ^A'tid heall put the sheep on his right hand, but the goals one left. V44 Christs Entombment.Mark xv. 43, 46.,j Joseph of Arimathea, an honourable counseller, which«o waited for the kingdom of God, came, and went inJldly unto Pilate, and crared the body of Jesus. And1 bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrappedtrin the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was.'wn out of a rock, and rolled a stone unto the floor ofa sepulchre. *"u46 The Apostles speak divers languages.Acts ii. 2, 3, 4.And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, a«|la rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house whthey were sitting. And there appeared unto them clotongues, like as of fire, and it sat upon^ each of th»And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and be ito speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them !45 The Ascension.Luke jcxiv. 50, 51, 52.And he led them out as far as to Bethany; and he lii)ed up his hands, and blessed them. And it came to padwhile he blessed them, he was parted from them, n|carried up into heavett. And they worshipped bmn, ajjreturned to Jerusalem with great joy.