THEIII Scots Piper's Queries,O R1 John FalkirksCARRICHES.TO WHICH IS ADDEDHis Comical and Witty Jokes.When in Courtfliip with an old Fid-Idler’s Widow, who wanted all theteeth. With a copy of a Love Let¬ter he fent to her, who was com¬monly called Flinging Betty.Old John Piper ifyov. deft re.c1'j read at lefirc by the fire,'Twillplcafe the bairns and keep them laughing,And mind the Old Goodncife o' her dafn.Ediabi’T^b, Protcd by J. Mbrr'n.Tbit Catechism deserves no Creed,Ids only for boys that will not readOn wiser books, them to ins trued !Let droll John their fancy cook.The Scots Piper’s Queries, &c.Q, \JU HAT is the wifeft behavi-^ ^ our of ignorant perfons ?A. To fpeak of nothing but whatthey know, and to give their opinion,of nothing but what they underftand.Q;^ What time is a fcolding wife atthe befl ?A. When ihe is faft afleep.Q^ What time is a fcoldhag wifeat the worft ?A. When die is that wicked as totear the hair out of her head, when diecan’t get at her neighbour’s, and thro’perfect fpite bites her tongue with herown teeth: my hearty wifh is, that ailfuch wicked vipers may ever do fo.Q^ What is the effeftual cure andinfallible remedy for a fcolding wife ?« 9! A- The only cure is to get out of thefhearing of her, but the infallible re-taedy is to nail her tongue to a grow¬ing tree, in the beginning of a coldwinter night, and fo let it ftand till£un-riling next morning, {he’ll become>ne the peaceableft women that everfay by a man's fide.What time of the year is it thatinhere are moll holes open ?A. In harvelt when there are mcfiitubbles.Q, At whattimeisthecowheavieli?A. When the bull is on her back.Q. Who was the goodman’s mucklelow’s calf’s mother.A. None but the muckle cow her-lerfelf.i What is the likeft thing to aban and a horfe ?A. A tailor on a mare’s back.What is the hardelt dinner thattailor ever laid his teeth on ?A His own goofe, though never fo| ell boiled and roalted.Q How many tods tails will it take> reach to the moon ?A. One, if it be long enough.How many flicks gangs to thebigging of a craw’s nefl ?A. None, for they are all carried.Q. How many whites will a wellmade pudding-prick need ?A. If it be well made it needs nomore.Who was the father of Zebe-dee’s children ?A. Who but himfelf.Q. Where did Mofes go wheji hewas full fifteen years old ?A. Into his fixteenth.Q. How near related isgood-brother to you ?A. No nearer than myQ. How many holesfare there in ahen’s doup ? A, Two.Q. How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung andanother for the egg.Q, Who is the bed: for catchingrogues ?A. None fo fit as a rogue himelf.Where was the ufefulefi: fair irScotland kept ? A, At MulguyQ. What fort of commodities wenthere ?your aunt $own father.!5 —A. Nothing but ale and ill wicked*wLves.I How was it abolifhed ?A. Becaufe thofe that went to it;once would go to it no more.Ck For what re.don ?A. Becaufe there w7as no money toI be got for them, but fair barter, wife: for wife, and he who put away his' wife for one fault, got another witht\vo as bad.What was the reafon that in thofedays a man could put away his wife forpifling the bed and not for fh- --g it ?A. Becaufe he could fhute it awaywith his foot and lye down.What is the real on now a daysthat men court, cafl, marry, and re¬marry fo many wives, and keep butonly one in public at laft ?A. Becaufe private marriages arebecome as common as fmuggling, andcuckolding the kirk no more thoughtof than to ride a mile or two on hisneighbour’s mare ! men get will- andwale of wives, the bed portion, andproptrt ft perfon is preferred, the firftleft', the weak to the word, and die6whom he does not love, he ihutes a-way with his foot, and lies down withwhom he pleafes.CX How will you know the bairnsof our town byothersin the kingdom?A. By their ill breeding and badmannersWhat is their behaviour ?.a. If you alk them a queftion incivility, if were but the road to thenext town, they will tell you to followyour nofe, and if go wrong curfe theguide.Q. Are young and old of them nobetter ?A, All the odds lies in the differ¬ence, for if you afk a child to whomhe belongs, or who is his father, hewill tell you to kifs his father’s a—e.What kind of creatures arekindlieft when they meet ?A None can exceed the kindnefsof dogs when they meet in a market.Q. And what iscolleyscondudt there?A. Fird they kifs others mouthsand nofes, frriell about, and at lad ofall, they are fo kind as to kifs otherbelow the tail.What is the coldeft partof a dog?A. His nofe.O. What is the coldeft part of a man?A. His knees.Q. What is the coldeft part of a wo¬man ? A. The back part of her body.CV What’s the reafon that thefethree parts of men, women and dogsare coldeft ?A. Fabulous hiftorians write, thatthere was three little holes broke inNoah’s ark, and that the dog put hisnofe in one, and another the man puthis knee in it, a third and biggeft holebroke, and the woman fet her back-fide into it; and thefe parts being ex-pofed to the cold blaft, makes theirtalways cold ever ftnce.And what remedy does the mantake to warm his knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire,and when in bed draws his fhirt overthem.(k What does the woman do towarm their cold parts ?A. The married women turn their'backfide about to the goocjman’s beNly; virgins, and thofe mad for mar-8riage, the heat of their maiden-headskeeps them warm; old matrons andwhirl’d o’er maidens, widows, and wi¬dows bewitched, hold up their coldparts to the fire.And what remedy does the poordog take for his cold nole ?A. Staps it in below his tail, thehotted bit in his body.What is the reafon that dogs areworie on chapm m, than on any otherftiange people ?A. It is faid the dogs have three ac-cufations againft the chapmen, hand¬ed down from father to fon, or fromone generation of dogs to another: thefirft is as old as ^fop, the great witof Babylon, the dog having a law-fuit(againft the cat, gained the plea, andcoming trudging home with the de¬creet below his tail, a wicked chap¬man throwing Lis elwand at him, heiet it fall, and fo loft his privileges.The fecond is becaufe in old timesthe chapmen ufed to buy dogs and killthem for them Ikins. The third is,jrhen a chapman was quartered in ammmm9farmer’s hdufe, that night the dog loftI his property, the licking of the pot.CX What creature refembles mofta drunken piper;A. A cat when {he (ips milk; (liealways lings, and fo does a piper when,he drinks good ale, (What is the reafon a dog runstwice round about before he lies downA. Becaufe he does not know thehead of his bed from the foot of It.What creature refembles moda long; lean, ill looking, greafy fac’dlady for pride ?A. None fo much as a cat, who iscontinually {pitting in her lufe anArubbing her face, as many of fuchladies do their brown leather.Ch Amongft what fort of creatureswill you obferve mo{l of a natural law ?A. The hare and the hind meet atone certain day in the year ; the broadgoofe lays her firft egg on Fadern’fEven, old flile ; the crows begin t(build their nefts the firft of March, ol< jjftile ; the fwans obferve matrimony |and if the female die, the male dartnot take up with another, or the rexviii put him to death ail the birds ingeneral join in pairs and keep fo; batthe dove refembles the adulderer, forwhen the die one turns old, he paysher away and takes another; the lo-cufts obferve militaryorder and marchin bands ; the frogs refemble pipersand preachers, for the young ride theold to death.(X Who are the merried and hear-tieit people in the world ?A. The failors, for they’ll be dng-ing and curling one another, whenthe waves, their graves, are going o-ver their heads.Which are the diforderliefl crea ¬tures in battle ?A Cows and dogs, for they all fallupon them that are ne^thmofb.Q. Who are the vairueft fort of peo¬ple in the world ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young fol-dier and poor dominieWhat is the great caufe of thebarber’s vanity ?A. His being admitted to trim no¬blemens chafts, thyke their fculls, takekings by the nofe, and hold a razor toXIto his very throat, which no fubjedelfe dare do.Q. What is the great caufe of thetailor’s pride ?A. His making of peoples newclothes, of which every perfon, youngand old, are proud of, then who canwalk vainer than a tailor carryinghome a gentleman’s clothes.Ck What is the caufe of a young \foMier’s pride ?A. When he lifts, he is free from hismother’s corredlion, and the hard u- 1fage of a bad mafter, has liberty tocurfe, iwear, whore, and every other |thing, until convinc’d by four halberts |and the drummer’s whip, that he has inow got a military and civil law abovehis head, and perhaps worfe maftersthan ever.Q, What is the caufe of the poordominie’s pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the youngand ignorant, he fuppofes no manknows what he knows, and the boyscall him mafter, therefore he thinkshimfelf a great man.Q. What fort of a fong is it is that'1*2fang withaut a ton'gne. and its notesare underftoodby people of all nationsA. It is a fart, which every bodyknows to be but wind.What is the reafon that youngpeople are vain, giddy-headed and ai¬ry, and not fo humble as in formertimes ?A. Becaufe they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty drain,by reading fables, plays and roman¬ces, gofpel books, fuch as the pfalmbook, proverbs and catechifms arelike old almanacks: Nothing is nowin vogue, but fiddle, flute, Tory andBabylonifli tunesour plain Englifhfpeech corrupted with beauifh cants,don’t, won’t, nen, and ken, a jargonwo1 Te than the York (hire dialect.Why is fwearing become ocommon among ft the Scots-people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teacherscome from the fouth among us, wherefwearing is pradtifed in its true gram¬matical perfection, hot oaths, newItruck off, with as bright a luftre as anew quarter guinea.O How will you know the bonessf a nvaioivs mare- at the back of adyke, amongft the bones of an hun¬dred dead horfe ?A. Becaufe they are made of wood,Which are the two things notto be. fpared, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat and a hiredkorfe.cIbe end cf John Falkirk's Carriches.AN old gentleman and his two Tonsbeing in a company, his eldeflifon fitting next to him, fpoke a wordwhich highly difpleafed his father, forwhich his father gave him a heartyblow on the fide of the head a well,iaid he, I will not lift m.y hand tofirike my parent, but he gives his Q-ther brother, that fat by him, a blowon the ear, faying, give that about by¬way of a drink till it comes to my fa¬ther again. . \>A failor travelling between Edin¬burgh and Linlithgow, which is ] 2long computed miles ; and as he wasfetting out in the morning about eighto’clock, hefawa vain like young fparkgo running paft him, which he neverminded, but kept jogging ©n at hisown leiiure : and as he was going intoLinlithgow about twelve o’clock upcomes the young fpark, and alked thefailor what o’clock it was, Why, faysthe Tailor, I Tee vou have a watch andI have none, what is it ? Out he pullshis watch, ho ! faid he, it’s diredtlytwelve, and what do you think, it washalf an hour after ten or I came outof Edinburgh, I have walked it in anhour and a half; it is pretty well tript,fays the failor, but pray hr, what manof bufmefs are you ? O! faid he, I ama watch maker. I was thinking fo,faid the failor, for you have made thewatch anfwer your feet, for they can¬not anfwer a right watch, and 1 fup-pofe your tongue cannot keep timewith either of them ; do you remem¬ber where you palled me this morn¬ing about eight o’clock ? O yes, laidhe, and off he went.A certain old reverend prieft beingone night at fupper in a gentleman’sohufe, and for one article having eggs,the ferver of the table laid a cloth onevery one’s knee for to hold their eggin when hot; when fupper was overthe prieft lookt down between his legs,and feeing the white cloth, thought itwas his own fhirt tail, and verly flylyflaps it in to his breeches, bit and bit,which the landlady and the maid ob-ferved, but was alhamed to tell him ;ft> home he went with the fervit in hisbreeches, and knew nothing of it tillgoing to bed, when it fell from him :his wife enquired how he came by it,he could not tell, but was furprifedhow he came to have more bulk in hisbreeches than formerly, but obfervingthe name they fent it back again, theIprieft pleaded to be excufed, ownedhimfelfonly a thief in ignorance.As two maids were coming frommilking their cows, one of them ftep-ping over a ftile, fell and fpilt thewhole paleful ot milk from her head.ji O, faid fhe what will I do, what will1 I do ? O, faid the other maid let it go,| who can help it now, you can’t takeit up again, it’s not your maidenead.I My maidenhead, faid fhe, if it were*1 *ny maiden head, I would think no-16thing of it, many a time I have loftmy maidenhead with great pleafure,and it ay came back again to itsain place, but I’ll never gather upmy milk.A drover who frequented a publicinn in the north of England, as hepalled and repafled, agreed with thefervent maid of the houfe for a touchof love ; for which he gave her a fixand thirty fiiilling piece : On the nextmorning he mounted his horfe, with¬out afking abill or what was to pay ;but fir, laid the landlord, you forgotto pay your reckoning: Well minded,fir, 1 forgot my change ; the maid wascalled in all tiafte ; yes, faid (he I gotit, but it was not for that, throws itdown and off file goes: her miftrefsgave her the challenge, fhe^told her itwas fo, but five (hou'ld be up withhim Twelve months after, he com¬ing paft with his drove, puts up at thefame inn, as formerly : The girl thengoes to a neighbour woman, who had ayoung child about three months cld,lays it on the table, flying, fir, there’sthe change of vour fix and thirty andaway £hc comes: The child cries, andthe bell’s rung, the landlord was readyenough to anfwer. O fir, faid the dro-[ ver, call her back, for this will ruinmy family, and crack my credit; butfir, faid the girl, you thought nothingto ruin my character and crack mymaidenhead. Peace, peace, faid he,my dear, here’s one hundred and fif*ty pounds, and take away the child; an J trouble me no more. Well, faidI:' ihe, I will take it, and you’ll makemore of buying cows than maiden-1 heads; fo away fire came with themoney and returned the borrowedji child to its own mother.(Three merry companions havingmet on a Saturday night at an ale-houfe, (a hatter, a fiioe-maker, and'aijtailor) where they drank heartily allI that night, and to morrow until mid¬day : and their beats were who hadthe lovingeft wife. So they agreedifpr a trial of their good nature, thatevery man fhould dp whatever his wifebid him do as Toon as ever he wentaome; who did not as (he ordered himivas to pay all the reckoning, whichI?came to feven and fixpence ; or if allof them did as their wives bid them,then they were to pay all alike. Soon this agreement they all came away,firfl to the hatter’s'houfe, and in hegoes like a mad man, dancing andjumping round the floor, his wife wastaking off the pot and fetting it on thefloor, he flill dancing about, ding o-ver the pot with thy madnefs ; fo he igives it a kick and over it went, andthat faved him, as he had done whathis wife bade him do Then awaythey go to the tailor’s houfe, in he goesdancing likewife, but his wife fell afcoiding him : O', fays he, give me akifs? kifs my arfe you drunken rogue,faid flie, then to her flies and lays heron the bed up, with her petticoats and :kifles her arfe before them all, andthat faved him. Then away they went |to the fhoe-maker’s, and in he goesvery merry, and dancing about as hefaw the other two do, faying come my idear heart, and give me a kits r Go .hang yourfelf you drunken dog, faid ^the, fo he muft either go and hang :himfelf diredtly, or pay the reckoning. ;19An honeit Highlandman not longfmce, not much acquainted with law,fell out with one ot his neighbours,and to the law they went; he employ¬ed one advocate, and his oppolite an-nother, and as they were debating itin court before the judges, the high¬landman being there prefent, a friendon his fide alked him how he thoughtit would go, or who would gain theday, indeed fays the highlandman hislaw man fpeaks well, and my lawmanfpeaks well, I think we’h both win,and the judges will lofe, for they fpeakbut a word now and thenA young woman by the old acci¬dent having got herfelf with child, wascalled to the felfion for fo doing, andafter one elder another examining herhow (he got it, and where fhe got it,and what tempted her to get it; andno doubt thedteel wad get her for thegetting it: and laft of all the minifterfell a enquiring how fhe got it, whichrun the poor lafs out of all patienceabout the getting, fays the prieft, tellme plainly where it was gotten ? I tellyou, fa id fhe it was gotten in the byre,20at a cow’s flake, and what other placej would you want to ken about ? butfaidhe, did he not t;ye you to the cow’sflake ? No, faid'fhe, I did not needany tying ; and how far was betweenI the byre and the houfe l. Juft but andben, up and down twa flaps of a ftaneftair : Then, fajs the prieft why didyou not cry to the folks in the houfe?indeed,fir, fay^flie, I could not getcried for the laugbjfpg at itA foldier being, on a forlough fromthe north of Scotland, having got nobreakfaft, fell very hungry by the wayand no alehoufe being near,, came into a farmer’s hqufe . and wifhed themi to fell him .fome bread„qr; any kind of1 vi<ftuals ; to whch the furly goodwifereplied,, ihe never fold any bread, andwas not going to begin wfith him, hehad,.but. three miles ami a bittock toan aleboufe, and hp rheight walk on,as ihe di^i ^ah' enpiigh ^vhen fhe gledbits of bread for naet^mg to beggars,tHo’ fhc gied nane, to idle foldiers, he ]had naething to do there awa*. Hout, ;faid the, goodman, gie’in a ladletu’ o’out,.kaili die’s been fomebody’s bairnbefore he was a foldier. What! faidfhe, there’s not a drop in the pot, theyare a’ in the plate before you ; then(gie’m a fpoon and let him fup wi’ us.The foldier gets a fpoon, and think¬ing he could fup all hefiw, the firft fuphe took, he fpouted back again in tothe plate, and cries out, O my foremouth, the hide’s yet all off fince I hadthe clap; every one throwing down hisfpoon, the foldier got all to fup him-felf; the wife flood curling and fcold-ing all the time, and when he was doneburnt both plate and fpoon to preventthe clap. So the foldier came off witha full belly, leaving the wife dreflin^the goodman’s rigging with a fouifooted flool for bidding him fup.A churl ifh man and a virtuous wifeone time fell out, becaufe the wife hatgiven fometbing to the poor, what, faithe miftefs, I’ll let you know there inothing about this houfe but what imine: Well, well, goodman, then yoiwill let me have nothing, take it a]and give me peace; fo away they wento bed, and the good wife turned hebackfide toward the goodman, and t2 2at, he was falling afleep, Hie draws up her^°fmoke and lets fly in the good man's*le fhirt tail, which awakened him in asha great fright as he had been {hot; ay,anay, woman, what are ye about ? whatam I about faid flie: dear woman you~^are filling the bed Not I goodman, for^‘when my arfe was my own I took careycof it, and take ye care of it now, it isir!yours. O rife woman and clean theClbed, and keep your arfe and a’ the li¬berty ye had before, and more, if ye^want it; feigh, whatYthis, I’m a’ dirt.D A fhips crewbeing one time in great‘Miftrefs at fea, by reafon of a violentt[lorm and being all fallen down to pr -Ver,. expefting every moment to go to'.he bottom : there happened to be anr}ld gentleman, a paflenger on boardwith them, who had a great big redxiofe, with drinking ale and whifky ;md being all at their Iaf{ prayers asxhey thought, a little boy burfl: out in-o a loud laughter; O thou thought-efs rogue,faid the captain, what makeshe laugh, feeing us all on the point oferilhing ? Why faid the boy, I can-ot but laugh for to think what fineI.123Iprt it will be when we are all drown-fg, to fee how that man’s red nofe111 make the water biz when it comes:*out it; at which words they all fellliaugfeing and cherilhed the crew, foat they made another attempt togather out, and got all fafe afhoreatjft.Falkirk's Love Letter to the Fid-dler's Widow| My lovely Bet, the beauty of oldl;e, thy hoary head, and louchingloulders incline to mortality; yet ISill compare thee to the Eagle thatejjis renewed her youth, or leek withtwhite head and a green tail, thisiumes to thee with my kind compli-! ents for kiffes of thy lips and thec.ndnefs I had fd'r thy late bed fellow,fiddler Pate, my brother penfioner ;!t! how we drank others healths withebroe of thebucketewes, we broughtom boughts of the German Boors ;at it’s nonfenfe to praife the dead,men in the dufl, yet a better Vialerlever freeded on a filken cord, or[jit tied a cat’s trypes wi’his finger- ends,at 24.wo his elbows were fupple as an eel, ai Ihe his fingers dabbed at the jigging eifta like a hungry hen picking barley :an feldom or ever faw him drunk, ai jth keep him from whifis:y,orwhilky fro i1be him; except that night he try fled tlfli free-flone pair of breeches from J«yc feph the mafon : and now, my de:in, Bey fly, he’s got them, he’s got then!ci] for a free-flane covers his body, holej him down, and will do; and now, no;tl, my dainty thing, match for matrimci,b ny, come tak me now or tell me nova, I’m in danger, I’ll wait nae langert^ fay be clever, either now or never, itt a rapture of love which does me movt\ I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if flirj fhould be blind and cripple ; I’ll feV my wind for her meat and fun, thf like ne’er gaed down her thrapplefo now Befly I love you, my love lieupon you; and if you love me not again, fome ill chance come upon you£ as I am flyting free, I am both iilove and banter, or may your rumplt rust for me; I have fworn it by m;. chanter.f FINIS,   il