SEVEN ENGLISHPopular Songs,The Tyrolese.Song of Liberty.The Castilian Maid.Faintly as tolls the evening chime.Oh ! rest thee, Babe.Farewell.The. Gipsy Wanderer.God save the King.ENGLISH SONGS,THE TYROLESE SONG OF LIBERTY.Merrily every bosom boundeth,Merrily oh ! metrily oh !Where the Sang of Freedom souadeth,Merrily oh ! merrily oh !There the warsiot’s arms shed more splendour,There the maiden’s charms shine more tender,Every joy the land surrounJeth,Merrily oh ! merrily oh !Wearily every bosom pineth,Wewily oh ! wearily oh 1Where the bond of slavery twineth,Wearily oh ! wearily oh !There the warrior’s dart hath no fleetRMtf,There the maiden’s heart hath no sweetness,Every flower of life declineth,Wearily oh f wearily oh!Cheerily then from hill and valley.Cheerily oh ! cheerily qh 1,Like your native fountains sally,Cheerily oh ! cheerily oh !3If a glarious death won by bravery,Sweeter be than breath sigh’d in slavery,Round the Flag of Freedom rally,Cheerily oh ! cheerily oh !THE CASnUASl MAID.Oh ! remember the time in Lamancha’s shades.When our moments so blissfully flewWhen you’d call’d me the flower of Castiliairmaids,And I blush’d to be call’d so by you,When I taught you to warble the gay Scguadille,And to danse to the light Castanet.Oh ! never, dear youth, let you roam where youwill,The delight of those moments forget.They tell me, you lovers from Erin’s green isle,Every hour a new passion can feel;And that soon in the light of some lovlier smile,You’ll forget the poor maid of Castile.But they know not how brave in the battle youare,Or thev never could think you would rove ;For ’tis always the spirit, most gallant in war,That is fondest ami truest in love.C V NADI AN BOAT SONG.Faintly as tolls the evening chime,Our voices keep tune, and our oars beat time;4Soon as the woods on shore look dim,We‘11 cheerfully sing our parting hymn.Row, brothers, row; the stream runs fast,The Rapid’s are near, and the daylight’s past.Why should we yet our sail unfurl ?' here is not a breath the blue wave to curl;But when the wind blows cff the shore,Oh ! sweetly we’ll rest upon cur oar.Blow, breezes, blow; the stream runs fast,The Rapid’s are near, and the daylight’s past.OIM REST THEE, BABE.On ! slumber, my darling, thy sire is a knight,Thy mother a lady so lovely and bright,The hills and the dates from the tow’rs, whichwe see,They all shall belong, my dear infant, to thee.Oh! rest thee babe, rest thee babe, sleep on ti lday,Oh ! rest thee babe, rest thee babe, sleep whileyou may.Oh ! rest thee, my darling, the time it shall come,When thy sleep shall be broken by trumpet anddrum.Then rest iliee, my darling, oh ! sleep while youmay,for war eomrs with manhood, as light comes. with day.' -Jh! rest thee babe, rest thee babe, sleep on tillday, , .Oh! rest thee babe, re»t thee babe, sleep whileyou may. { . . _ .,^ .. •'#»□h, hark thee, young Henry! thy sire is aknight,Thy mother a lady so lovely and bright;The hills artd the dales from yoa tow’rs that Isee,iM'hey all shall belong, my young Henry, to thee.Oh f rest thee babe, rest thee babe, sleep on tillday,Oh ! rest thee babe, rest thee babe, sleep whileyou may.,’Vv ' v* i •‘•'.•i-' • • * ***• iTHE GIPSY WANDERER.FwaS night and the farmer his fireside near,O’er a pipe quaff’d his ale stout and old;IThe hinds were in bed, when a voice struck hisear—fLet me in, I beseech you—just so ran theprayer—Let me in, I am dying with cold....I’o his servant the farmer cry’d—Sue, move ihyfeet,And admit the poor wretch from the storm,For cur chimney will not lose a jot of its heat, -gAlthough the night-wand’rer may there fitid (seat,And beside our wood embers grow warm.At that instant a Gipsy girl, humble in pace,Bent before him his pity to crave—He, starting, exclaim’d—wicked fiend, quit thiiplace—A parent’s curse light on the whole Gipsy race!They have bowed me almost to the grave !Good Sir, as our tribe pass’d the church-yar<,be’ow,1 just paus’d the turf grave to survey ;I fancied the spot where my mother lies low,When suddenly came on a thick fall of snow,And I know not a step of my way.This is crsft, cried the farmer, if I judge arightI suspect thy curst gang may be near;Thou would’st open the door to the ruffians onight;Thy eyes o’er the plunder now rove with delight,And on me with #!y treachery leer !With a shriek on the floor the young Gipsy girfell!Help ! cried Susan, your child to uproar !Your long stolen child!—she remembers you wellAnd the terrors and joys iu her bosom that swellAre too mighty for nature to bear.7FAREWELL.In th?t cottage rtiy father long dwelt,Till call’d the proud foe to repel,With a heart that each keen passion felt.He bade his companions farewell;’’ While in distance he echo’d the sound,A sound 1 shall ever deplore,Farewell 1 Farewell!f Alas! I shall ne’er see him more.! Shouts of victory honour’d the day,When bravely in battle he fell,I Far, far from his village away,Where he bade his companions farewell,While in distance, &c.GOD SAVE THE KING.God save great George our king,Long live our noble king,God save the king 1Send him victorious,Happy and glorious,Long to reign over us.God save the king t■ • V ' .8Confound their politics,Frustrate their knavish tricks:On him our hearts we fix,O save us all.Thy choicest gifts in storeOn him be pleas’d to pour;Long may he reign iMay he defend our laws,And ever give us causeTo sing with heart and voice,God save the king !O grant him long to seeFriendship and unityAlways increase !May he his sceptre sway,All loyal souls obey,Join heart and voice, huzz1,God save the king !FINIS.11