THENew Winter Evening’sCOMPANION,OFjFWz, Mirth, and Frolic.CONTAININGi J great variety of Merry Tales, and divertingEntertainments, for the WinterEvening Fireside.0“THEWinter Evening’s Jester.Mother PincJrxeighfs Prayer.RANT that the Cheese that I now kneel onmay cut up to good profit; and that MFirkin may have more patience, and wait till I caipay him.—-And that those who buy my moist si1gar may not see the sand at the bottom of tbeiiltea-cups. And grant that my goods may not blweighed over again, that my spiteful neighbourimay not have to reproach me withal. And if rtfsbe thy good pleasure, do thou destroy the raiand mice that eat up my cakes and candles. An;|may Mrs. O'Leary pay me the ninepence she oweme for bacca, before she moves away, and it hthy pleasure. And do thou humble the pride cMrs. Flounce, because she goes finer man thservant. And bring to punishment all those wbserve my customers on Sundays. Preserve mmilk, and butter, and small beer, from the suiand me from all my enemies this day and for eve >Amen!A man who lived very unhappily with his wifbeing in company with some friends, said, thebed was situated in such a way that it was impoiisible they could fall out: A person presentmarked, “ 1 understand, Sir, that norwithstam (ir?" the situation of your bed, you sometimes ha*the misfortune to fall out. Which occasionedloud laugh.3! A person who had a termagant wife, in con-i creation with some friends, said, that if ever he; iared to shew any spirit, she was sure to tamenjim in a crackCried Sylvia to a reverend Dean,What reason can be given,Since marriage is a holy thing,That there is none in hcav’n ?There are no women he replied.She quick return’d the jest;Women there are. but I’m afraidThey cannot find a priest.: A gentleman entering into the study of hisriend, who was a youth of the poet irihe, andiliiding him absent, and the following unfinishedlanza lying on the deskThe Sun’s perpendicular heightIllumin’d the depth of the sea ;Took up his pen. and thus concluded.And the fishes beginning to sweat.Cried, Confound it, how hot we shall be!jA tinker going through Canterburv, sound*ty briskly on his kettle, crying, Have you &u 'rfrk for the tinker!1 On which a shop-keeper(U.-g opposite a pillory, resolving to pass a jest-nn the tinker, pomtevi to the pillory, and bidi stop up those holes. The tinker replied, Ifplease to lend me your head and ea^s, l willi hammer and nails, and give you my Kbournothing. 'ji.'he delicacy of the Magistrates of'Eriinburgh,I dinner lately given to Lord Melville, L highlyto be commended: No bread wa* produced butbrownt as it was justly apprehended that his Lord*’"•ship could not stomach Whitebread.The Duke of Richmond being asked why he’ordered a Captain’s guard to mount near thekitchen, replied, that he wished to accustom theOfficers of the Militia to stand fire.In the year 1786, a Carpenter, whose namewas Day, engaged to build a theatre at Sturbitch.—Dr. Watson, at that time Chemical Professor;at Cambridge, and afterwards Bishop of Landaffijobjected to the erection of a Play-house in a town?so near the University, and opposed it with such'!'effect as to stop Master Day's career. On thiioccasion the following lines was written by ooe 'erf the fellows of Trinity College.They tell us a tale,That in Askalon’s valeDan Jos stopt the Sun in his way:As great is the powerOf Landaff at this hour.For he’s finish’d the progress of I' y.That overgrown baby, the French fleet, ssmPrince Hoar, is so helpless, that Bonaparte find!himself obliged to keep her at Brest.One man having asked another the way to son*place was answered, Why if yo i go right up thnext street, yon cannot go wrong.A notorious pkk-pocket of the name of Belbeing once detected in the act of robbing a genth5man, ]?e received for his insolence a severe duck-ting: When one who standing by, said, that Hemight now with the greatest propriety be cxUeda D.ving Bell.' I The name of one Mr. Virtue having appeared(among the Bankrupts in the Gazette, the followingi lines were composed on the occasion.The times are out of joint indeed,.And must as bad be hail’d:Sure eVry moral mind must bleed.Since Virtue’s seif has fail’d.» A gentleman being about to leave London, met'in intimate friend, who said jocularly to him,l When do you pack up, Your honour i He re-jiiilied, My Honour. Sir, being perfectly portable,i shall not pack it up at all, but carry it with me.I!! Two persons arguing respecting a Mr, Thomp-ijjbn, and a Mr. Collins, both very niggardly men;line of them said, Mr Collins is a very near man.jfih! said the other, but Mr Thompson is nearer*olow can that be, retorted the other, when hesves at a town twenty miles distant, and Mr.llins only at the next door i. 4 ■ \On the first day of Michaeiihas term, 1800, av named Cohen, justified bail in the Court ofimmon Pleas. The opposing Counsel, Mr.rjeant Runnington, thus proceeded to . xammen : What is your Christian name ?—Christianme 1 I have none—( mean the name tHu dis-guished you from the rest of your family You: not ail numbered, I suppose, as Aminidab the6first, Aminidab the second, third, fourth and soon ?—No, Sir. my mm? is Jacob —What areyou ?— \ merchant — vVhat do you deal in ? Va- |rieties of goods.—Do you keep a shop?—No. |How then do you dispose of your Goods?—To jthe best advantage, my good fellow.Mr. George Rose, rvlien Seer larv of the Trea-sury, being asked by aii intimate friend- why he ,1did not promote merit, with much simplicity re-itorted, Did merit promote me.Mr. Serjeant Best cross-examining a witness,yasked him his profession : I am a C*lourman, re- 1plied the man. Oh then, said the Serjeant, you s<are merely brought here in the way of your busi- Iness, to give a colour to this transaction.A person abusing another to Mr. Gifford, said|he was so insufferably dull, that if you said a good [thing he did not understand it Pray, sir, said ithe satirist, did you ever try him ?A person who applied to a circulating libraryfor a book which he wished to read, was told bythe proprietor that the value of the book must bei ldeposited—What! do l look so much unlike aijgentleman that you suspect my honesty, exclaimedjthe other (reddening with anger.) Why indeed,sir, replied Folio very coolly, I can make no ob«:jection to your appearance; but I certainly object!to the giving you so much credit as your ta' lor,or eivinnr you that which is only due to Superfine!doth. JThe following is the return Mrs. Elizabethilfamiiton of Russel street, Bath, author of thei Hv-ell-written novel, entitled, Modern Philosophers,decently made to the assessor of Walcot, of male»llcrvants*, horses, mules, carriages, dogs, &c.Not a male in our house,Not so much as a mouse,Nor a horse nor a dog, as true written ;For search house and g»ourtti,Not a beast could be found,But a hungry old cat and her kitten.A few days since, a noble naval commander,one of our sea-ports, who is a strict discipli-•ian, accosted a drunken sailor in the street,ith. What ship do you belong to ? Jack, who'as a dry fellow, (notwithstanding Ks was drunk)ad had a very eccentric countenance, answered,■ith much snns froid, Don’t know ; what’s yourtptain’s name ?—Don’t know.—Do you know«ho I am ?—No.—Why, 1 am the commanderchief. Then, replied the fellow, in a mannerihich raised the good temper of the worthy baroneta loud laugh, You have a d d good birthit, that’s all I know !”A person who was offrnded with his neighbourcause he had driven away his cat fto>- ^ pigeon-buse was reproved by the other for his want ofnsideration. Because, observed he, It is beyondioubt but your cat would eat' rviy pigeons, butere is very little fear ot my pigeons eating yourA notorious swindling fellow who has for some8time past supported himself by imposing on new ■shop-keepers a variety of bad articlts. and amongothers, a trumpery preparation which he calls patentfur taking out Spots and Stains; was one day expos¬ing to a young man, who had been defrauded byhim : upon which the latter thre w his purchase intothe dust-hole, observing, It was impossible his pre¬paration could be infallible, when jt had left sucha stain in the maker’s character."fA tradesman’s wife, who was rather too apt1 •.to prefer custom to economy, and example toreason : always defended hersdf by observing chat,Though her children had their faults, she'did not 1see but they were as well brought up as OtherPeople’s, and when she wished for a new gown..or bonnet, sire only wanted to go Like OtherPeople. It happened one day that she was bitterlyexclaiming against one who spake too freely ofher failings. My dear, replied her husband, Have .patience, and consider she only does the *ame ai.Other People.A certain nobleman who affects to be a physi- (.ognomist, and to know people’s Sentiments by theexpression of their countenance, calling on LadyC. Bruce, before her marriage v’hh Captain Dur- iham, told her, he knew her thoughts by her eyes,Do you, says she, Then I am sure you will keeg1,them secret, For they are no way to your advan.tage.A day or two after the performance of M«Sheridan’s School for Scandal, the author, conitersing with a friend who was present at the pet9fottnance, cm the manner it was received, tssked himnow Mr. Cvimbevlanf. was f For, added he 1 h ’arlie •' ss in z ’de hox. H'1 ■'•as, repliec his *riend#knd he lr>ok“d exactly like the ancestors of Ch .rlesa tlte pictuie-scene he never s'imd a muscle,ior gave the least indication of a laugh from be¬ginning to end. No1 renli d Sheridan That wasurely most devdish uugrar ful of him for he had11 tragedy come out last eek and curse me if: i did not laugh the whole time of its rcpresenta-rtiion.} Charles Fox upon seeing hung at a lad1 's watclihe picture ot her deceased husband, who, it wasi ielieved, had hastened his end by intemperancein connubial joys, said, It was barbarous in herip hang him in chains so near the place of exe-i :iution.VI'; Mrs. Billihgton was singing the Soldier tir’d of•irar’s alarms, a song particularly calculated tofisplay her vast powers ot voice, and in theexecution of which she stands unrivalled, whenii fellow in the gallery cried oat, D—n her, sheas got a nest of nightingales in her belly.H At Madrid, Signior Alvarez and Don Lopez,wo Spanish gentlemen, happened in a public.oiace, to enter into a warm dispute; one hot wordacoduced a hotter and contradictions begot onemother like Jews. Signior Alvarez finding hiswood grow hot, thought the readiest way to cool; iwas to let out some of Don Lopez’s, accordinglyi • caught up something, and instantly broke hisIliad. On this the debate ended, and instead of3GurgTnp’ his ar<?ument any farther, drew his sword*\rhirh •w-rtnlc' .ra?. followed by the whole com-pany Phe'two dispn^nts put themselves in aposte of defence, then like great generals, orwise pol ici began a treaty sworH in hand ron this their fne. cls found, on a proper ni<-diationa peace night be concluded on, if they would hit ;on some expedient to adjust some punctilios ofhonour.\rhcy disarmed the two antagonists, and leavingthem under the care of two or three friends therest retired to argue the point. M’tiy salvos andpunctilios were found out, yet none satisfactoryin the judgement of then* mutu.-.l friends; this rwould too much derogate from the honour of Don (|°Alvarez, that was not equivalent to the affrontDon Lopez had received ; at last Bignior Camillo, ra man of great sagacity, told the/company, that 1a short memory wts no more reflection to a man 'of honour titan a man of wit; therefore if their *two friends would forget the past, the thing was •at once adjusted. The proposal was universally “applauded, and two persons dispatched to whisper ;it separately to the parties concerned, which theyimmediately came into ; upon this Don Lopez and TAlvarez wire sent for in, and they entered hand hein hand, each smiling on one another Alvarez *!*addressed himself to Signior Camillo, and said,it had been reported ho had struck Don Lopez onthe head, buttihe came there to do himself andthe brave Don-justice, declaring upon his honourhe did not remember any such accident: Andyou may depend upon it, cried Lopez, If I had•■emembered any such thing, which if true, I could fhave never forgot, I would have righted myseiip11before now with the h o d ef my a^versarv: butBigntor A’.v-rez i m} wo :h; i i :n0 y man ofbcnour. By tnis punctilio th. ir hon at’s lives wt-reboth saved; and Courage and memory set on aevel, th: r neither ot them could icproach theother with the w*nt or either.A gentleman of Wales, coming fresh off the■ nouutaxis to visit London, happened upon a.change of a:r. to fail dangerously lil of h cticever. An English phvsician being immed atelyi tent for, found his coi ditton to be very dangerous,:and presently ordered him such proper medicines. s are usually administered in such cases, but alltjo^b purpose; for the distemper proved so veryiJebelUous, that notwithstanding the doctor pro-ileeded according to the best of his judgement,let all the physic he prescribed him, was whollyIneffectual, till at last, the patient was reduced toinch a condition, that the doctor, though a skilfulnan, quite despaired of his recovery; so told therurse privately, that he had done the utmost, ac-yording to the rules of art, and that all his visitshd prescriptions for the future would be of littlese to the patient, so that he would now give himi p to the goodness of God ami the care of herself,>r he could not conceive it was in the power of'^'lysic to save his life, therefore advised her toeal gently by him, and deny him nothing thatb could eat or diink, that the few moments heid to spend in this world might piss away underless uneasiness; so took leave of the nurse,id away he went.(No sooner had the doctor given the nurse thiserty, but as soon as his back was turned, she12began to fondle ’ner dying patient, and begged ofb: n to think oi wmething cr other that he thoughthr 'oulct fTt ov d^ink, an.i let it be what it would,she wouU' e-t him it presently; at last he liftediif his languishing eyes, and staving be* full inth -! face, cried cut as loud as he was abu? to speak,in' 'ill hasteT.tasted cheese. Wish that sh r*to ri - xtexv chanr'.let, notwhhit uidinuit food for « dying man inioudi have it; aiulthougiitshfever, yetaccordinglypound of good old Cheshire, and cookedbou J!U so agreeably to her Welch patient’s tooth, thathe tat ui every b c, to the nurse’s great astonish-rru nt bhe then asked Iiinrn 'What he thoughthe cool.! dm k ; He told her then, wi*h a mAhstronger voir* thin before, A gallon of leek-pot¬tage. i he nurse finning the toasted cheese agreeso \vei‘l with her patient ran immediately to theherti-stali for a bunch of leeks, and brewed him,up a gallon of Welch caudle piesently, which, assoon .’s it w ar. cool enough for his palate, he drank :off, and then turning his face from the light, com- .posed him>if forest, and slept heartily till thenext mornuig; and when he awaked, was so ex¬tremely rrienoed, that the nurse had great hope*of his recovery.In the afternoon, the doctor happening to comethat way in his coach, gave a look up af his cham¬ber, expecting the dead signal, that is, the win*'dows to be open, but finding them shut, stoppedhis coach, and stepped up stairs to see how mat¬ters went, and coming into the chamber, foundthe patient he had given over but the day before, •to his great astonishment getting out of bed. Thedoctor was perfectly amazed at this unexpected*t-ieV.'13ii/lit, and enquired of tn.'? nurse, WHat Strangs.measures she hid taken ro recover him? whoajrery readily told him what anunaccountable re-sfreshpent she had giver, hinn! Nurse, says the doctor very gravely, smellingo a civ t-brx of his ebony erne. Vou have done:rery well: Pr .y let him have more toasted cheese,j|nd more leek porridge, and l wdll call again to-’'(r,arrow, and see how it agrees with him. Theiratiem liked it so well, that as often as they re-i neated it, he was willing to take it, till in a littleime the Welchman was thoroughly recovered,ipon which the nurse was well paid, and the phy-ian had the reputation of a very wonderful cure.In a little time after this miraculous success,ic doctor happened to have an English patientin the same condition ; that by all the ?lies of art, by which he governed hw practice,e could not administer one medicine that wouldbate the distemper: At last, calling to mindhat a wonderful cure the nurse and he had soperformed, by toasted cheese and leek poi-dgc, not knowing but there might be some oc-ilult quality in one or the other, more than physi¬cians were accquainted with,.he resolved to makeifial of their virtues a second time, and accordingly,directed the nurse to administer them to the pa-pent, whom the doctor declared was absolutely:iust recovery by any other means.1; The nurse thought it strange advice from a.itbHege physician; but, however, it being his di-illpctions, she was resolved to observe them ; andoccordingly provided a plentiful plateful of bal-if mic Cheshire, toasted secundum ariem, which: ith much ado, she persuaded her patient t*lately14ISwallow; aftpr mucli kecking, and to take a hearty-draught of leek pottage alter it, to help digestion.No sooner hid the feeble patient forego downboth his dos< s. but he turned his face to the wall,and instead of i-oing to steep, in less than a quar¬ter of an hour he made his exit The doctorcoming next day to enquire after the success ofhis new medicine, looking up for the old signal,found the windows wide open, by which he un¬derstood without farther enquiry, what conditionhis patient was in ; so altering his course, pluck*out his pocket-book, and in it makes this memo¬randum, Toasted cheese and leek pottage, a cer¬tain cure for a Welchman, in a fever; but presentdeath lor an Englishman,ANECDOTE OF Sjr MATTHEW El ALE,.Lord-chief Justice of the I'ing’s Bench* iq the Reign ofChailts II.,t (A Gentleman of about 509!. a year estate, inthe eastern part of England, had two sons. Theeldest being of a fumbling disposition, took a placein a ship and went abroad. After several yearshis father died, when the younger son destroyedhis will, and seized upon the estate. He gaveout that his eldest brother was dead, and bribedsome false witness to attest the truth of it. Inthe course of tinae the eldest brother returned, ,but came home in miserable circumstances, Hisfyounger brother repulsed him with scorn, toldhim that he was an impostor and a cheat, andasserted that his real brother was dead long ago,and he could bring witnesses to prove it. The15s ^oor fallow having neither money nor friends, wa*tn a rnosf disnval situation. He went round thelip'vmh m iking bitter complaints, and at la^t cameto a lawyer, who. when he had heard the poorihnar’s mournful story, replied to him in this man.iner: You have nothing to give me : If I undertake? your cause and lose it, it will bring me into verytifoul disgrace, as all the wealth and evidence is on: /our brother's side. But, however I will under-;vke your cause on this condition : You shall enternto obligations to pay me a thousand gu neas if. ; gain the estate for you If I lose it, I knowihe consequence, and I venture upon it with myyes open. Accordingly he entered an actiongainst the younger brother, and it was agreedo be tried at the next general assizes at Chelms¬ford in Essex.The lawyer having engaged in the cause of the»oor man, and stimulated by the prospect of aicusand guineas, set his wits to work to contrivee best methods to gain his end At last he hitpon this happy thought, that he would consultifie first of all the judges. Lord-chief Justice Hale :•/accordingly he dew up to London, and laid openhe cause and all its circumstances The judge,who was the greatest lover of justice of any msnft the world, heard the case patiently and atten-l|vely, and promised him all the assistance in hiswer. (It is very probable that he opened hishole scheme and method of proceeding, enjoin-g the utmost secrecy.) The judge contrivedratters »n such a manner, as to have finished alls business at the King’s Bench before the assizesgan at Chelmsford, and ordered either his car-ge or horeee to convey him down very near the16seat of the ti8';r ?sr.■ He dismissed his man andhi h'-.-ses, and sought out for a sinsrle house. Hefound one occupied bv a miller. After so ne con¬versation, and making himself quite agreeable, heproposed to the miller to change clothes with him.As the judge had a very good suit on, the manhad no reason to object. Accordingly the judge |shifted himself from top to toe, and put on a com- iplete suit of the miller’s best. Armed with themiller’s hat and shoes, and stick, away he marcnesto Chelmsford : He had- procured good lodgingsto his liking, and waited for the assizes that shouldcome on next day When the trials came on, hewalked like an ignorant country-fellow backwatdsand forward along the county-hall. He had athousand ryes within him, and when the courtbeg’n to fill, he soon found out the poor fellowthat was the plaintiff. As soon as he came intothe hall, the miller drew up to him : Honest friend,said he* How is your cause like to do to-day?Why, replred the plaintiff, My cause is in a veryprecarious situation, and if I lose it, I am ruinedfor life. Well, honest friend, replied the miller,Will you take my advice ? I will let you into asecret, which perhaps you do not know, everyEnglishman has the privilege to except against anyone juryman through the whole twelve ; now doyou insist upon your privilege, without giving a.reason w’hy, and, if possible, ^et me chosen in hi®room, and i will do you all the services in mypower. Accordingly, when the clerk of the courUhad cdled over the jurymen, the plaintiff excepte4to one of them by name. The judge on thebench was highly offended with this liberty. Whaldo yo* mean, fay* he, by excepting against thatifiiitnno41*1IKfcl(tokfthHiHiie(!' 1h:trvft-If-fc.I*'17I gentleman ? I mean, my lord, to assert my priei-' loge as an Englishman . wi’V jut giving a reasoni why. The judge, wiio had been deeply bribed,in order to conceal it by a show of candour, andharing a confidence in the superioity of his party—Well, Sir, said he. As vou claim your privilegei in one instance, I will grant you a favour. Whowould ye wish to have in the room of that manexcepted against * \f ter a small time taken in om-ekteration. My lord, says he, I wish to have anhonest man ci ose in. and he looks round the court \My lord, there is that n-iik r m the court, we wiUhave him if you please Accordingly the railluri was chosen in. As soon as the clerk pf the courtihad given them all their oaths, a little dextrousfellow came into the department, and slips te»IgoMen Carolus’s into the hands of eleven jurymen,iand gave the miller but five. He observed thatthey were all bribed as well as himself, andsaid to his next neighbour, in a soft whisper,IHow much have you got ? Ten pieces, said he,IHe concealed what he had himself. The cause.was opened by the plaintiff's counsel; and all tilescraps of evidence they could pick up were ad-jduced in his favour.The younger brother was provided with a greatunumber of evidences and pleaders, all plentifullyibribed as well as the judge. The evidence de-eposed, that they were in the self-same countryi where the brother died, and saw him buried Thecounsellors pleaded upon this accumulated evi-sdence, and every thing went with a fui1 tide infavour of the younger brother. < he judge sutn-inrted up the evidence with gieat gravity and de¬liberation, and now, UemlemeH ol the jury, said18fee, lay your heads together, and bring in yourverdict as you shall deem most just. They waitedbut a few minutes before they determined in -fa¬vour of the younger brother. The judge said,Gentleman, are you agreed, and who shallspeak for you We are agreed, my lord, replied ione, our foreman shall speak for us Hold, my ilord, replied the miller, we are not all agreed.Why, says the judge, m a very curly manner.What’s the matter with you ? Vv hat reasons have (ryou for disagreeing ? I have several reason,r, my ;ilord, replied the miller; the first is, they have «>given to all these gentlemen of the jury te» broadpieces of gold, and to me but five ; besides, I have 5many objections to make to the false reasonings jrof the pleaders, and the contradictory evidence of «.the witnesses Upon this the miller began a dis¬course that discovered sqch vast penetration ofjudgement, such extensive law and expressed with isuch energetic and manly eloquence, that aston* ^ished the judge and the whole court. As he was bgoing on with his powerful demonstrations, the 1judgo. in a surprise of soul, stopped him. Wheredid you come from, and who are you ? I came Tfrom Westmimter-hall, replied the miller, my ;name is Matthew Hale, I am Lord Chief Justice ,ot the King’s Bench. 1 have observed the iniquity ■of your proceedings this day, and therefore come 1.do’vn from a seat .vhich you are no ways worthy ?to hold. You are one of the corrupt psrries inthis iniquitous business. I will come up this mo¬ment. and try the cause nil over again. Accor¬dingly .St> Matthew went up with his miller’s dress >and hit on, began with the trial from i*s veryoriginal, searched every circunastaoce of truth and19ifclsehocd, evinced th<> eldest brother’s title to th*lestare from the ccamdictory evidence of th* wit-(nesses, and the false reasonings of the pleaders,lunraveiied all the sophistry to the very bottom,nand gained a complete victory in favour of TruA•pand Justice.A person in the city cf Chester, who is notedf ifor a high setter of shops, (as they express’t in>!the North) had one standing empty a long time,ilion the account of the exhorbitant rent he asked,i for it; a tradesman wrote upon the shutters, Gib-I iralter, where it remained two or three days before: the meaning w as found out, wduch is. It willjaaever again be taken.It was observed by an Irish gentleman, a few(days rgo, while speaking of a certain regiment,.iithat for three weeks, he never saw any regimentnimprove so little in his life, for do you know,fchdded he, They grew worse and worse every day.’ The same gentleman being at a ball at Tun¬bridge had sat up very late, after observing heHwas to go the next morning to Eastbourne, toilride a race for his uncle, bluntly exclaimed, By~F—s, if my uncle wants Me to ride his horse, hemst get Somebody else.Among the toasts drank at the late corporationdnner at Norwich, was the following; Buona-arte in Fetter-Jane, and his army at Gravesend.The French soldiers are famous for having aood appetite, but we suspect that they will not20veltsli the Sntertalament which the Austrians «mean to give them at their Inn.-An irishman who was present at the fight be- jttween Crib and thi Black, observed, that aitho* ,the latter had got a sert re beatiug, he by co means »thought him lainc-hearted, as he uever once chang- •,ed his Colour.A Gentleman seeing the town-crier of Bristol, J i.ttoM market day, standing unemployed, asked him <the reason.—Oh, replied he, kicannot Cry to-day, imy wife is dead!' a UA partridge pye, said the gentleman, eating; t>pan of one, bents a pigeon pye all to pieces. Fheni;•aid auotlier. You never put both at once on thesame table. Why not ? Because it must provethe destruction of the poor pigeon pye.T/ie Monk and Jc~n —A Talc*To make new converts truly blest,A recipe—Probatnm cst.Stern winter, clad in frost and snow,Had now forbad the streams to flow;And skaited peasants swiftly glide.Like swallows, o’er the slippery tide:When Mordecai (upon whose faceThe synagogue you plain might trace.)Fortune with smiles deceitful boreTo a .nirst hole, but late skinn’d o’er;Down plumps the Jew; but in a trice,'Rising, ne c.'UghFthe friendly ice :He gasp’d j he yell’d a hideous cry;-' );It,? biSil-tlVo friendly help, alas ! was nigh,i Save a poor monk, who quickly rani To snatch from death the drowning man :But when the holy father sawA limb of the Mosaic Law,^iBis outstretch’d hand he quick withdrew:For Heaven’s sake, help ! exclaims the jew I: Turn Christian hist, the father cries:[ ’’m froze to death, the Jew replies.:Froze ! quoth the monk; too soon you’ll know,There’s fire enough for Jews below,denounce your unbelieving crew,1\nd help is near. I do, 1 do!)—n all your brethren, great and small,i With all my heart; Oh, d—n ’em all linflow help me out. There’s one thing more ;ialute this cross, and Christ adore I ’ Tis well.Thus armed, defiance bid to hell.And yet another thing remains,To guard against eternal pains?3o you our papal father holdBeav’n’s vicar, and believe all toldi^y holy church ? I do, by G—d IOne moment more I’m food for cod!iilrag, drag me out, I freeze, I die!Tour peace, my friend is made on high:r'ull absoiiKion here I give:ilaint t’eter wili your soul receiveWash’d clean from sin, and duly shriven,inJew converts always go to heaven;tUo hour for death so fit as this:Thus, thus, 1 launch you into bliss 1iiiiis convert launch’d beneath tke ice.22On Cruelty to Brute Animals.A man of kiodpess to his beast is kind;But brutal actions show a brutal mind:Remember, he who made thee, ma le the brute iWho gave thee speech 5c reason, form’d him mute jHe can’t complain ; but God’s all-seeing eyeBeholds thy cruelty—Hie hears his cry.He was design’d thy servant and thy drudge *But know, that his Creator is—thy judge !A curious Hand-bill.THOMAS TOUCHWOOD, GENT.Proposes on the last d ty of this present N|vember, to shoot himself by subscription. His lifbeing of no further use to himself or his friend;?he takes this method of endeavouring to turn h;)death to some account; and the noveity of thep iformance, he hopes, wUl merit the attentionpatronage of the public.He will perform with t wo pistols; the first shito be directed through the Abdomen, to wfwill be added another through the Brain;whole to conclude with staggering, convuhicgrinning, &c. m a meaner never before publitfi;attempted.1 he doors to be opened at eight, and the 11hibition to begin precisely at nine. Partiatiplaces, for that night only, reserved for the atfl:No money to be returned, or half price takenN. B. Beware of counterfeits and impojJliThe person who advertises to bang hamself|lsame night, in opposition to Mr. Touchwccdiltaylor, who imends only to give the representai'of death by dancing in a collar} an attempt;!;23initely interior to Mr. T’a original and authentic>erformarce.A stratige and most ’wonderful Slight.« saw a peacock; with a fiery tailI saw a blaming comet j pour down hail;| saw a cloud \ wrapt with ivy roundi; saw an oak; creeping on the ground11 saw a piumire * swallow up a whalei i saw the sea* brimful of aler saw a Venice glass; fifteen feet deepSsaw a well; full of men’s tears that weepsaw wet eyes ; all of a flaming firesaw a house; bigger than the moon and highe”,; saw the sun. Even at midnight,i; saw the man who saw this dreadful eight."A Chinese Anecdote.The last Emperor of China was one of theearest monarchs of his age and for nothing moreiebrared than the vigour and strictness of histice; but he was wasm in his pursuits of plea-re, and impatient of interruption, when his mindas intent upon it.The Viceroy of one of the provinces oft empire, thai. lay most remote from the impe-1 city, had wrongfully confiscated the estate ofhonest merchant, and reduced his family toe exrremest misery. The poor man found meanstravel as far as to th<: Emperor'court, andtried back with him a letter to the Viceroy, com-him ‘0 :t:5!c:e the goods which he nadliken-so illegally.I Far from obeying this command, the Vieeroylilt the merctuuC ^to prison: but he had the24good fortune to escape and went once more tothe capital, where he cast himself at the Emperor** ifeet, who treated him with much humanity, andgave order* that he should have another letter.The merchant wept at thi* resolution, and repretented how ineffectual the first had proved; andthe reason* he had to fear, that the second wouldbe as little regarded.The EmneroT, who had been stopt by thi* com'plaint, as he was going with much haste to diin the apartment of a favourite lady, grew a littlediscomposed, and answered with some emotion,« I can do no more than send my commands, amif he refuses to obey them, put thy foot upon hineck.”“I implore your Majesty'* compassion,” repliecthe merchant, holding fast the Emperor’s robe« his power is too mighty for my weaknes; an«your justice prescribes a remedy, which your wiadom has never examined.”The Emperor, had by this time recollected hintself; and raising the merchant from the g*oumsaid, ♦« You are in the rightto complain of h'Mwas your part, but it is mine to see him pum shedjI will appoint commissioners to go back wiyou and make search into the grounds of hiproceedings ; with power, if they find him guilty!to deliver him into your hands, and leave you vieroy in his steadFor, since you have taught mijhow to govern, you must b« able to govern fc99UKr*FINIS.