Mother Bunch’s ClosetNewly Broke Open;CONTAININGRARE SECRETS of NATURE and ART,Tried and ExperiencedBy Learned Philosophers,And recommended to all ingenious young men andmaids, teaching them, in a natural way, how toget good wives jind husbands.Approved by several that have made trial of them;it being the product of forty-nine years study.By our loving Friend Poor Tom, for the King, a Tverof Mirth, but a hater of Treason.IN TWO PARTS.GLASGOW:Published and Sold Wholesale and Retail, bvR. Hutchison & Co. 10, Saitma:ket,1817.»TO THE READER.No harm at all is in this set,But teaching Maids Husbands to get;Also young Men of each degree.1 urn o’er the leaf, and you shall see,What herein is, is merriment,Hoping to give you all content.MOTHER BUNCH’SCloset Broke Open.PART i.READING over many ancient Histories, it wasmy chance to meet with this story of an oldwoman who lived in the '.vest, who took delight instudying her fortune when she found 'herself fulltwenty years old, she thought her luck worse thansome who were married at fifteen or sixteen, whichmuch troubled her mind; but to prevent all doubtsshe resolved too try a story she had often heard hermother talk of, and finding it true, she resolved toteach other maidens.On a time, this old woman having newly buriedher husband, was taking a walk in the fields, for the.benefit of the at’r, sometimes thinking of the loss ofher husbands, for she had had three, yet had a greatdesire for the fourth. So it happened, as she waswalking alone, she espied a young maiden bv themeadow-side. Good-morrow, maid, said the oldwoman, how do you do? are not you well? Yes,Mother, I am very well, but somewhat troubled inmind. What is it troubles you so much? If I can,I will willingly relieve you. therefore be not ashamedto tell the truth. Is it any thing of great concern?Indeed, Mother, seeing you urge me so much, I willtell you the truth: We are three sisters, the young¬est was married about a year ago, the middlemostlast week, and I am the eldest, and no man heedsme. Well, Daughter, if this be all, I believe I canassist thee, for when I was young, I was in the samecondition, and with reading some histories, foundout the art to know him that should be my husband4>Mother Bunch's Closet■which, if you will keep my counsel, I am ready toteach thee. I will truly, and if you w ill do so muchfor me, I shall think myself much obliged to you;and if my fortune proves right, I will make you a-mends.Why then I will tell you, in the first place, youmust observe St. Agnes’ day, which is the 21st ofJanuary, and on that day let no man salute thee, andat night, before thou goest to bed, put on the bestclean shift thou hast, and when thou best down laythy right hand under thy head, and say these words,“ Now the God of love send me my desires;” thengo to sleep as soon as possible, and you shall be sureto dream of him who will be yqur husband, and seehim stand before you, and may take notice of him,and his complexion; and if he offer to salute thee,do not deny him, but shew him as much favour asthou canst; but if he offers to be uncivil, be sure tohold your legs together. And now, Daughter, thecounsel I have given you, be sure to tell no body.So, fare you well,.till J see you again.I give you thanks for your advice; but one thingmore I have to say, What is your name? and wheredo you live? I will tell you, Daughter, my name isMother Bunch, and I live at a place called Bon-adventure, where, if you come, I will make you wel¬come.blow Mother Bunch having departed from the >maid, she met another pretty girl. Good-morrow,Mother Bunch. Good-merrow, pretty maid, whi¬ther are you going this morning? Methinks you arevery fine to-day. Fine! Mother Bunch, you do notthink so. Nay, I cannot discommend you; for sucha brisk maid as you should go handsome, or you willnever get a sweetheart, though you think the timelong. No, no, Mother, I am too young. How oldare you? I am eighteen. Eighteen! then I know57ic'voly Broke Oyer.thou thlnkest thou hist stayed long enough, andwouldest as willingly have a husband as another.Aye, Mother Bunch, but good husbands are hard tofind, especially for me, who have no skill in clausing,or else it may be, I would be glad of a good husband.Be sure to take my advice: be wise in chusing, thatis to say, take no one that has got a red head, for besure he loveth a smock so well that he will scarce lethis wife have a good one to her back; nor of yellowhair, a-s he is inclinable to be jealou ; nor a blackman, for he is dogged. Aye, but, Mother, if I mustnot have yellow, black, nor red, what colour must Itake? Why, Daughter, I tell you, if he is jealous,you will be forced, by his speeches, to make it good,for how can a young woman forbear what she is al¬ways told of? And be sure, if he is jealous of thee,thou mayest well be so of him; for whores and thievesthink ill of each other. But hold a little, one thingmore I have to say to you, and that is, to take noticeof thy sweethearts when they come a wooing to thee,I mean of their civil behaviour; for if they swear,vow, and make great protestations, then have a careof thyself, for many words breed dissimulation; there¬fore have a care of such: but if a man come to thaethat is sober and civil-behaved, there are hopes of hisproving a good man. Now, Mother, I will take myleave of you, giving you many thanks for your goodadvice; and so, farewell, till I see you again, and lintend tc take this counsel.Another time Mother Bunch was in a little mea¬dow, not far from her house, on the 30th of April,before sun-rising. A handsome maid, seeing heralone, came to her, and said, Mother Bunch, good-morrow, how do you do? Pray what makes you a-broad so early in the morning? You seem to be ina deep study. Daughter, you say very true; I amstudying who shall be my next husband, and if thou6Mother Bunch's Closetwilt but please to stn/a little while, thou shalt see apretty art, which thou never saw before, to teachyou how to know your sweetheart. This is a prettyart indeed; and I should be glad to know it.Hark! hark! Daughter, is not yonder th? cuckoosinging? Yes, yes, and I have not heard her singthis year before now. Then, Daughter, sit downby me, but hold, Are you fasting? Yes. But hasno man kissed you ? No. Then sit thee down* byme. I think the cuckoo is mad, what a life sheleads; I think she is a witch; but no matter; put offthy right shoe and stocking, and let me look betweenthy great toe and the next: Now, Daughter, see, thishair is a-long one; look well at it, and tell me whatcolour it is. I think it is really yellow. The samecolour will thy husband's hair be. But, MotherBunch, I do not matter the colour so much as thecondition. I will tell you his condition: he mayprove surly enough, and perhaps make you do as youdid not imagine: you must give him good words,and give him one good turn for another; but as tothis, thou must keep it to thyself; it is an ill birdthat beshits its own nest; kiss and tell is foul play.Mother Bunch, you make me smile, you talk somerrily. Come, Daughter, it is no great matter;merry talk does no harm, but drives the time away;but as for the deed doing l leave that to yourself.But hark! Daughter, I have had three husbands my¬self, and I think to have another; and do you thinkI am so mad to tell him aft I do? Then, my Daugh¬ter, I have another way to tell you who must beyour husband; I have proved it true; and it is thebest time of the year to try it, therefore, observewhat I say: Take a St. Thomas’ onion, pare it, andlay it on a clean handkerchief under your pillow; puton a clean smock; and as you lie down, lay your armsabroad, and say these words:newly Broke Open. . • .7Good St. Thomas, do me rightsAnd bring my love to me this night.That I may view him in the face.And in my arms may him embrace. .Then lying on thy back, with thy arms ahroa-!, goto sleep as soon as you can, and in your first sleepyou shall dream of him who is to be your husband,and he will come and offer to kiss you; do not hin¬der nim, but catch him m thy arm?, and strive tohold him, for that is he. This I have tried, and itha* proved true. Yet I have another pretty way fora maid to know her sweetheart, which is as follows:Take a summer apple of the best fruit, stick pinsclose into the apple, to the head, and as you stickthem take notice which of them is the middlemost,and give it what name you fancy, put it into thy lefthand glove, and lay it under thy pillow on Saturdaynight; after thou gettest into bed, then clap thyhands together, and say these words:If thou be he that must have meTo be thy wedded bride.Make no delay, but come away,This night to my bedside.And in thy sleep thou shalt see him come in hisshirt, and if he offer thee any abuse, he will be greatwith another woman; but if he puts his hand overthee, be not afraid, for it is a sign he will prove agood husband: and this is a good way for a youngman to know his sweetheart, giving the middlemostpin the name he fancies best, putting the apple inhis right hand glove, and laying it under his pillowwhen he is in bed, saying,If thou be she that must have meIn wedlock for to join,Make no delay, but come awayUnto this bed of mine.sMother Burch's ClosetAnd that night he may see her, as if she came inher shift and petticoat, which is a sign she will provea civil woman; but if she comes whh her shift only,she will prove a ranter, and so better lost than found.And now, Daughter, the time passes away, and Imust be gone, and so bid you farewell. MotherBunch, I give you many thanks for your good coun¬sel, and intend to take your advice.Upon a time, Mother Bunch, being at a wedding,where young men and maids were met, who had amind for some discourse with her, one young mansaid, Mother Bunch, we know you are a woman thathas a judgment in many things, I pray tell my for¬tune. I cannot tell fortunes, said she, but thoublinkest too much with one eye to be true to onewoman. Aye, but, Mother, says another, what thinkyou of me? Thou mayest come to marry a lady, ifthou canst but lay a great wager with her, three toone; and if she lays with thee, thou wilt be verylikely to win, for thou hast mettle in thee; but havea care she win not the odds, if she does thou artclean gone. So farewell.Now Mother Bunch took her leave; and goinghome, she met a maid going to a wedding. Howdo you do, Mother? Thank you, Daughter, whitherare you going? To the wedding, I believe; but harkyou, Mother, will you sit down a little, I have some¬thing to say to you. What is it, Daughter? Whenshall I be married? Would you fain be married?Yes, Mother, if I could get a good husband. Then,Daughter, I will tell you the best I can, if you willtake my advice. In the month of January are manydangerous days for thee to take notice of, these arethe first, second, third, fourth, and fifth: there area great many more; but if thou marriest on thesedays, thy husband will cuckold thee, or thou wiltmake him one, or else you will soon be parted bync\Dly Broke Open. 9one means or other; but for all there be so manybad days in this month I can tell you of one daywhich is lucky, and many younpmen and maids havea deal of heart’s ease on that day, or the day after,as I shall let you understand; it is the :21st, calledSt. Agnes’ day. This St. Agnes has a great favourfor young men and maids, and will bring to theirbedsides their sweethearts, if they follow my rules:Upon this day you must be sure to keep a fast andneither eat nor drink all that day, nor at night; nei¬ther let man, woman, nor child, kiss thee on thatday; and thou must be sure, when thou goest obed, to put on a clean shift, and the best thou hast,and clean clothes on thy head, for St. Agnes lovesto see all clean when she comes; when thou liestdown, lie as straight as thou canst, and lay thy handsunder thy head, and say,No-Wy Sf. Agnes, play thy part.And send to me my omi sweetheart;And s'tew me such a happy bliss.This night of him to have a kiss.And be sure fell asleep as soon as you can, andbefore you awake out of your first sleep, you shallsee him come before you, and shall perceive by hishabit what tradesman he is; and be sure thou declarenot thy dream unto any one in ten days, and by thattime thou mayest see thy dream come to pass. Allthis l have proved three times; for I have had threehusbands, and they all proved tradesmen; the firstwas a straw joiner, the second a louse-trap maker,and the third a gen'le craft, and he came to me withhis awl in his hand, and would needs prick me, ay,and did prick, but did not hurt me, and so 1 wakedout of my dream, and was never the worse; but Ithought the time long till he came again, as all maidsdo that desire to be married. I know some maids10Mother Bunch's Closetwould have a husband with the best conditions, andendowed with the best qualifications; nay they wouldhave impossibilities: but I am afraid they will makegood the old Proverb, that says,Jf you will not when you may,When you would you shall have nay.Therefore take my advice, if a young man comesto you of a civil carriage, and you think you can lovehim, be not scornful to him, but give him a civil en¬tertainment, according to his behaviour: but be sureto hold your legs together, till the authority is sign¬ed, when you may open them as wide as you can.And as to young men, my advice is, they be waryin their choice, since there is as much danger in claus¬ing of a wife as a husband: wherefore, all young men,take my advice: chuse not one with a long nose, ascolding brow, and thin lips, for in such there is greatdanger: he who is tied to a scold is tied to sorrow;chuse not one who is counted a slut, if she be a slut,she is idle also, and these two companions will bringthee to poverty; nay, besides this, the old saying is,A slut will poison the gout, and if you can’t eat withher, you won’t lie with her, and you must have abedfellow somewhere.But this is the best way of chusing a wife: Takeone for love, not for riches which fly away; for truelove never varies; and where that is, the blessing ofGod is. If you desire to live a long life, be not o-verfond of riches, but chuse a civil handsome maid,who is not given to pride: such a maid may make afine wife. But she that brings a handsome fortune,will be always throwing it in your teeth, which oftenoccasions great disturbances; therefore let this suf¬fice for those who deeire to get good wives; and ttikenotice of what I have already said, and you may farethe better.11sickly Broke Open. iAnd as for young maids, this is my advice, if theywill not try St. Agnes, let them be sure to chuse a'clever map, who is able to do his work; for if she befain to seek another to do that work, it may breedgreat dissension.THE END OF THE SECOND PART.The INTRODUCTIONTO THESECOND PART.ON Michaelmas day, Mother Bunch, sitting onthe bank of a river, joining to a neighbouringgrove, beheld the late flourishing branches in theirdec.'VK, whose sapless -leaves were falling to the earth;from which she began seriously to consider her own.mortality; and since time had hurried on the winterof her age, and covered her wged head with snowylocks, she might expect, ere long, to fall, like theenfeebled leaves: Therefore, she resolved, as she hadbeen a kind friend to young men and maids, to givea further testimony of her regar d before she left thisworld. For as her painful study, and strict observa¬tion had made a large improvement in her stock ofknowledge, she would no; have it buried in the gravewith her, but leave it to posterity for the benefit ofyoung men and maids, whereby they might learn tounderstand their good and bad fortunes, and by thedirections of this book, be thoroughly furnished withmany secret rarities, never before published to theworld.Accordingly, the next day she wrote letters of in¬vitation to the young men and maids, to repair toher house on St. Luke’s day: The maids she ap~12Mother Bunch’s Closetpointed to meet in the morning, to be first instructed,and that for two reasons. First. As she herseF wasa woman, she would teach them firs^, lest the bat-chelors should be too hard for them before they hadlearned their lessons. Secondly, That young o-men should be first served in this, it being Horn-Fair-Day, many of the batchelors would be employedin the morning, in handing old citizen’s young wivesto the fair; and in the afternoon they might be atliberty. This was the determination of old MotherBunch.MOTHER BUNCH,■VTOW against the time appointed, old MotherBunch decked up her house, neat and fine,*andgetting up early in the morning, placed herself inthe closet, where her treasure lay.Now the first that entered the room, was one Mar¬gery Loveman, a maltster’s maid, who with a lowcourtsey, said, Good-morrow, Mother Bunch, I amcome to partake of your bounty; for I hear you havea second time opened your Golden Closet of Cur¬iosities, for the benefit of young lovers. Yes, Daugh¬ter, quoth Mother Bunch, so I have, and thoushalt partake of the same: Here is infallible rulesand directions to guide you in all manner of love in¬trigues; also, how to know what sort of man youshall marry, and whither he will prove loving or not.Dear Mother, these are things I fain would know;for, believe me, I have many sweet hearts, and Iwillingly chuse the best, lest I should marry in hasteand repent at leisure. ’Tis true, i have near a hun¬dred and fifty pounds to my portion, the great noiseof which, has brought many sweethearts; for I have13vevcJy Broke Open.no less than five or six at this time; and, Mother, Iwould fain know which of them' comes for love ofme, and which of them for money.—Daughter, quothMother Bunch, here is an experiment, if you willhue try, it will make a clear discovery of the realityof 'heir love. Let a report be spread, that th(>u hastlately been robbed of all that thou hast, both moneyand apparel: Now, if after this, there is one of themth.n continues his love as befoie, you may be verycertain that he is faithful; but, be sure that you keepthis counsel to yourself, th t the -ecret be not ,:s-covered. I will take care of that, dear Mother,quoth Margery, and I heartily thank you for thiskind and seasonable advice.Good-viorrcrjo, Daughter she re ly'ci,, Young men arc false and must be try'd.She was no sooner gone, but in comes Mrs Susan,a young sempstress from Salisbury, with sorrowfullamentation, weeping, and wringing her hands Hownow! quoth good Mother Bunch, what is the mat¬ter with you, Daughter, that you go on at this rate?Alas! Mother Bunch, quoth Susan, my mymy my my——my ! What my? saidMother Bunch. Quoth sobbing Susan, my sorrowsare more than I am able to bear; for. Mother, dearFrank the fidler, my old love, and I, are fallen out,and he swears he will not have me: Come, Daughter,quoth Mother Bunch, be of good comfort, for I willput thee in an effectual way to find, whither Frankthe fidler be really angry with thee or not; and ifhe be, 1 will teach thee infallibly how to obtain hisfavour again. “ She that is afraid of every grass,must not think to piss in a meadow.” Let your an¬gry love but alone for a season, and he will sooncome to himself again; for I know that love is a punydarling, and wants very frequently to be humoured.Therefore let him alone, in time he will forget his14.Mother Bunch's Closetanger, and return to thee again, if he has any prin¬ciple, good nature, or loyal love in him* and if not,you had better be without bins, than during yourwhole life, to be tied to so sour an apple tree. Re¬member the old Proverb, “ Set thy stool in the sun;if a knave goes, an honest man may come.” I hopethou hast not been playing the Wanton Wagtail withhim, hast thou? No indeed, dear Mother Bunch,but yet, I must needs confess that he fain would haveplayed a lesson on my Lute last market-day, but Iwould not let him; and that was the cause of our fall¬ing out. Sayest thou so, Daughter? Why, then lwill tell thee, that since he found thou withstood histemptations,' with so much resolution, take my wordfor it, he will never forget thee. Well, dear Mo¬ther, quoth young Susan, your words have beencomfortable to me; and when I find the good effects,I will return and give you an account of it. And sofarewell, dear Mother, for the present.Bight happy, Daughter, may you he,In guarding your Virginity.The next that entered the room, was Margery,the Malster’s maid, who, after making a very lowcourtsey, and giving Mother Bunch the time of theday, desiring to know for what reason she sent herthat letter? Why, says the old woman, to the endthat I might reveal to ycu some secrets relating tolove, which I have never discovered to the world.But, dear Mother Bunch, quoth Margery, I am ameer stranger to love, for 1 never in my life knewwhat it meant. That may be, quoth Mother Bunch;yet you know not how soon you may receive the ar¬rows of Cupid, then you would be glad of some ofmy advice, for I know by myself, that the best Vir¬gin of you all, at one time or other, has a desire to.know what it is to lie with a man. Ouoth Margery,15vfnewly Broke Open.you talk merrily, Mother Bunch. Well, Daughter,quoth Mother Bunch, you may term it as you please;but I will appeal to your own conscience, whether orno you would be glad, with all your heart, of a kindand loving husband.Dear Mother, quoth Margery, you come quiteclose to the matter; and if 1 may be so free as tospeak my own mind, 1 could willingly embrace sucha one; for though house-keeping is said, to be verychargeable often, yet on the other hand, a marriedstate is honourable. Thou sayest well, Daughter,quoth Mother Bunch, and if thou hast a mind to seethe man whom thou shalt marry, then follow strictlymy directions, and you shall not fail of your desire.Let me see—this is St. Luke’s day, which I havefound by long study, to be of greater use to thatpurpose, than that of the celebrated St. Agnes, which1 formerly recommended you to; and the ingredientsnow to be used, are of a quite different and finerquality, and far more excellent for performing the.same.Now I would have you take some marigold flow¬ers, a large sprig of sweet marjoram, a sprig of freshthyme, and a small quantity of wormw ood; dry thesetogether before the fire, till you may^ruh them to apowder ; then sift the same thro’ a piece of fine lawn:This being done, take a small quantity of virginhoney, and right white-wine, vinegar, and simmerthem together in a new earthen poringer, over amild and gentle fire; all which being done, anointyour breasts and stomach, and lips, likewise, withthe same, just the moment you are lying down inyour bed; always remembering, to repeat these wordsthree times.St. Luke, St. Luke, be kind to me,And let me novt my true love see.16Mother Bunch's ClosetThis said, hasten to sleep with all speed; then inthe scft slumber of your night’s repose, the veryman you are to marry shall appear before you walk¬ing to and fro, near to your bedside, very plain andvisible to be seen: vou shall perfectly behold the co¬lour of his hair, Ins visage, stature, and deportment:And if he be one that will prove faithful, he will ap¬proach you with a smiL- and offer to salute you;which, when he does, do not seem to be over fond,or peevishly froivard, but receive the same with abecoming mild and mo est blush: Now if he be onethat will, after marriage, forsake thy bed to wanderafter strange women, then will he offer o be rudeand uncivil with thee, at which time, thou shalt liftup thy hand to smite him; so doing, it will go wellwith thee, and thy Guardian -^ngel will keep theeever safe; Daughter, these are rarities which I neverbefore devulged. Do but put this in execution andI am certain it will answer the desired effect. Imust needs thank you for your love, quoth Margery;and so farewell, Mother Bunco. Good-by, Dau¬ghter she replied.Let joy and pleasure crown your days,And a kind man your fortune raise.The next that appeared*, was Kate the cloth-wor¬ker’s Daughter; then Doll the dairy-maid» Joan,Bridget, Nancy, and Phillis, in number about fortytogether; each of them crying out with a loud voice,Dear Mother Bunch, remember me; O rememberme, quoth another; and so did they all, till theymade the poor old woman’s ears deaf with the clam¬orous noise. My dear Daughters, quoth MotherBunch, sit you all down and be quiet, for there isnever a one amongst you, but will partake of mybounty. Daughters, I will sit in the midst of you,where I shall read over a very interesting lecture.17new!2/ Broke Open.My real motive is to give you a full account of somerare and excellent curiosities, in my Golden Closet,newly broke open; declaring that it is my opinion,that those things which are profitable to one maid,may not be prejudicial, in any respect, to anofiter,and this I shall begin.First, If any of you here desire to know the nameof the man whom you shall marry, let her seek inthe summer time, for a green peasecod, in whichthere are nine pease; when you have done this, eitherwrite, or cause to be written on a slip of paper, thesewords:Come in, my dear.And never fear.Writing which, yoinnust carefully close withinthe aforesaid peasecod, and lay the same under thethreshold of the door, and then observe the nextman that comes into the house; for you shall cer¬tainly be married to one of the same name.Secondly, She that desires to be satisfied whethershe shall enjoy the man desired or no, let her taketwo lemon-peels in the morning, and wear them allthe day under her arm-pit, then at night let her notfail to take them, and rub the four posts of the bedwith the same; which being done, in your first sleep,he will seem to come a!»d present you with a coupleof choice lemons, if not, there is no hope.Thirdly, She that is desirous to know what man¬ner of fortune she shall marry, whether a gentleman,a tradesman, or a traveller, the experiment/is thus:Take a walnut, a haselnut, and a nutmeg, crack thetwo nuts, and take off the scurf, peel them clear fromthe kernels, and grate part of the nutmeg to them;this being done, bruise the kernels of the nuts, andmix them with butter and sugar, making them upinto peels, which are to be taken just when you are13/ Mother Burch's Closetlying down in your bed: then if your fottune be tomarry a«gentleman, your sleep will be filled withfine golden dreams, variety of sweet music, andmany running footmen; if a tradesman, great noiseand tumults; if a traveller (who is a seaman) thenfrighful visions of lightening and roaring thunderwm disturb your sleep. This has been often tried,and as often approved.Fourthy, St. Agnes’s day I have not wholly blot¬ted out of my book; No, but I have found a moreexact way of trial than before: You shall not needto abstain from kisses, nor be forced to keep a fastfrom a glance of your love in the night. If you canrise to be at the parish church-door, punctually be¬twixt the hours of twelve and one in the morning,and then and there, put only the fore-finger of yourright hand into the key-hole of the said door, re¬peating the following words, three times over:O sweet St. Agnes, now draw near,With my true love, let him appear.Then he will straight approach to you with achearful and smiling countenance. This is a newand infallible way of making the trial.Fifthly, My dear Daughters, you all know thethirteenth day of February is Valentine’s Day, atwhich time the fowls of the air couple together, andnot only so, but the young men and maidens are lorclausing mates at the same time. Now, that you mayspeed to your full satisfaction, follow this approveddirection: Fake five bay leaves, lay one under everycorner of your pillow, and the fifth under the mid¬dle, then laying yourself down to rest, repeat thefollowing words in the four lines, seven times over:Some Guardian Angel let me have.What I most earnestly do crave.19nevdj Broke Open.A Valentine endo'w'd 'with Love,Which will both kind and ccjistavt prove.Then to your great content, you shall either havethe Valentine of him you desire, or, at least, onemuch more excellent.Sixthly, the experiment of the mid-summer smock,found in a better manner than before, by my pain¬ful study in Philosophy. And now, Daughters,quoth she, take particular notice, for it is thus: Letseven of you together, on a mid-summer eve, exactlyat the sun’s setting, go silently into some garden,and gather each of you a sprig of red sage, then re¬turn to some private room, prepared particularly for.that purpose, with a stool placed in the middle, eachone of you having a clean smock, turned the wrongside outwards, hanging upon a line across the room,then let every one lay her sprig of red sage on aclean plate of rose-water set on a stool; which done,place yourselves in a row, where continue till twelveor one o’clock, saying nothing, whatever you see,for after midnight, each one’s sweetheart or husband,that shall be, will take each maid’s sprig out of therose-water, and sprinkle his love’s smock, and thosewho are so unfortunate as never to be married, theirsprigs shall not be moved; and in consequence here¬of, many sobs and heavy sighs will be heard. Thishas been very often tried in our own country, andnever failed of the desired effect.These things I have found out of late,To make young lovers fortunate.And now, my dear Daughters, I have but a fewmore words to say at this time, and they are by wayof caution: In the twelve months, I find above oneand thirty very unfortunate days; and therefore, asyou regard the future happiness of your lives, take20Molhct Bunch's Closetcare that you do not enter into wedlock upon thosedays. Now, for your better instruction, I’ll tell youwhich they be.In January, there are four; the 7th, 16th, 17th,and 18th.February hath two; the 5th, and 10th.March hath three; the 9th, 10th, and 21st,April hath two; the 6th and 7th.May hath two; the 4'h and 13th.June hath three; the 7th, the 9th, and 10th.July hath two; the 9th, and 17th.August hath two; the 11th and 15th.September hath three; the 2d, the 3d, and 4th.October hath three; the 4th, the 14th, and 15th.November hath two; the 5th and 24th.December hath three; the 6th, the 7th, and 9th.Observe my rules for all these days.And then you will your fortune raise.This said, Old Mother Bunch presented themwith a cup of her fine cordial water, and so dismissedthem; and the^young damsels, with rapturous hearts,returned her their hearty thanks.After Mother Bunch had done dinner, the youngmen came, to wit, Tom the miller, Ralph the thatch-er, and Robin the ploughman, with a great numberof other trades and callings, all whom Mother Bunchinvited to sit down, that she might deliver her whole¬some counsels to them.And first she begins with Tom the miller, saying,Ah, Tom ! thou art a sad wild young fellow; thereis not a maid that can come to the mill, but thouwill be fooling with them, giving the poor lasses slyhobs under their aprons; but take my word for it, ifyou do not leave off in time, you will certainly spoilall your fortune: What woman do you think, hav¬ing a portion, will have such a one ? She may justly21ne'&ly Broke Open.conclude, that you wll stiil run a catterwauling afteryoung wenches, and leave her to sigh and weep, forwant of the comforts of matrimony, you knowwhat I mean, Tom.Yes, yes, Mother, quoth Tom, but sure you donot take me for such a one. Yes, Tom, 1 do, andam seldom mistaken. It is you millers, that fill thecountry so full of crack’d maidenheads, that whenan honest husband comes to take possession, he findsthe ground tilled before he comes with his plow.But farewell, I’ll have no more to say to such a fel¬low as you.Then turning to Ralph the thatcher, she said, Ifind you are very desirous of a wife, and your am¬bition is such, that she must be rich, young, andbeautiful: cannot you content yourself with honestJoan, to whom you gave promise of marriage, andnow I find you have a mind to leave her, which if• you do, and obtain such a one as you desire, I canI tell you w'hat will follow: Sim won’t .stand pickingof straws with you, her fair face will find manyfriends in a corner, and you may chance to be acuckold, and indeed but justly served in your kind;and therefore, I advise you to return to your oldlove for she is a very honest girl, and therefore farmore fit for you, than such a gay butterfly as you. Jaav lately followed.Then she stretched forth her hand to Robin theploughman, saying. Thou art an honest fellow; andj good fortune will always attend thee; I mean notbags of gold, nor heaps of silver; but thou shalt havea careful and industrious wife, one that will ever bewilling and reaay to labour, a true and a faithfulyoke-mate, and cne that will be a chearful partnerin thy weal and woe, to comfort and support theeunder the greatest and most severe trials. For, as; the Poet has it,22Mother Bunch’s ClosetThat harden may he hornsby tico •with care.Which is perhaps, to muchfor one to bear.Honest Robin, this is thy happy fortune, and asthou art a downright honest fellow, I am glad to findit so.Thus Mother Bunch went round the room,And told them what would be their doom,If they her Daughters did betray,And steal their maidenheads away,Each would be punish’d with a bride,By whom he should be hornify’d;.But if they were right honest men,Each of them should have fortune then.This said, she did her blessing give,In love and happiness to live;Which when they did the same receive,Of Mother Bunch they took their leave,Declaring she had told them more,Than e’er they understood before.nculy Broke Open.2iNO^ for these poor young creatures that havepined themselves to death, and neglected thecure, the worst of pretenders to phisiognomy mightprescribe them a remedy, and all those of what con¬stitution soever, that have languished in single sheetstill sixteen; l will show you how you shall see theperson that is to ease you of your maidenhead, col¬lected from Trismegistus, and Cornelius Agrippa.On Midsummer Eve three or four of you mustdip your shifts in fair water, then turn them wrong-side outwards, and hang them on chairs before thefire, and lay some salt in another chair, and speaknot a word. In a short time the likeness of him 'you are to marry, will come and turn your •smocks,and drink to you; but if there be any of you will "never marry, they will hear a bell, but not the rest.Another Way, quickly tried.Take hemp-seed, and go into what place youwill by yourself, carry the seed in your apron, andwith your right hand, throw it over your shoulder,saying,Hemp-seed I sotu, hemp-seed I sozv,And he that must be my true love,Come ajler me and mov::And at the ninth time expect to see the figure ofhim you are to wed, or else hear a bell as before.Yet though you hear the sad amt dismal bell.It is your fault if you lead apes in hell.' Another Way.You that dare venture into a church-yard, just asit strikes twelve at night, take a naked sword in yourhand, and go nine times about the church, saying,Herds the sword, but where’s the scabbard?21<Mother Hunch's Closely SfC.Which continue the whole time you go round: andthe ninth time the person you are to marry willmeet you with a scabbard and so kiss you: if not, abell as before./ Another, called The Dutch Cahe>Three, four, or more of you must make a cake offlour and salt, (no matter of what flour) and some ofeach of your own water; make your cake broad, andeach of you set the two first letters of your namewith a pin, but leave such a distance that it may becut; then set it before the fire, but speak not oneword. Turn it each of you once; and the personto be your husband, will cut out your name; thenthe next unto the last. If there be any who hear abell, I wish I had them for my bedfellow, to preventtheir leading apes in hell.Another Way.The first change ef the New Moon on the NewYear, the first time you see it, hold your hands a-cross, saying this three times,jVra Moon, New Moon,,./pray thee,Tell me this night who my true love will be.Then go to bed without speaking a word, and youwill certainly dream of the person you shall marry.Another Way, experienced often.Young men and maids may take some rosemaryflowers, bay leaves, a little thyme, sweet marjoramand southernwood; make these into powder, andwith barley flour make a cake, but do not bake it.Lay this under your head any Friday night, and ifyou dream of mude, you will wed those you desirein a short time; if of the sea or ships, you will travelfirst; if of a church, you must be contented to diesingle.FINIS.