}IGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES,No. 42.TiaE SISSTORYBLUE BEARD/■ - .,,BLUE BEAED.Kich Blue Beard’s life we here unfold,His lots of jewels, stores of gold,—His thirst for blood is held to view,And secrets of the Chamber Blue.A I.OKG time ago, and at a considerable distance from anytown, there lived a gentleman, who was not only in possessionof great riches, but of the largest estates in that part of thecountry. Although he had some very elegant neat mansionson his estates, yet he generally resided in a magnificent castle,beautifully situated on a rising ground, surrounded withgroves of the finest evergreens, and other choice trees andshrubs.The inside of this fine castle was even more beautiful thanthe outside; for the rooms were all hung with the richestdamask, curiously ornamented; the chairs and sofas werecovered with the finest velvet, fringed with gold; and all histable-dishes and plates were either of silver or gold, finishedin the most elegant style. His carriages and horses mighthave served a king, and perhaps, were finer than anymonarch’s of the present day. The gentleman’s appearance,however, did not altogether correspond with his wealth ; for,to a fierce disagreeable countenance, was added an ugly bluebeard, which made him an object of fear and disgust in theneighbourhood, where he usually went by the name of BlueBeard, that all the girls and women ran away from him.Though the Turkish laws allow every man the liberty tohave as many wives and concubines as he can support, yetBlue Beard never had more than one wife at a time; and itwas not a little remarkable, that out of twelve young andbeautiful damsels, to whom he had been married, not onelived more than a few months, and by far the major part werereported to be dead in only a few weeks after their marriage;and their funeral conducted in so private a manner, that noneof their relations had any opportunity of examining theirbodies, to discover whether their death was occasioned by illusage. Suspicion was further heightened by the circumstancesof their having died at one particular castle in the country.To this castle, which was situated far remote from otherdwellings, he had always chose to conduct his wives a few4days after their marriage, and from whence they were neve?seen to return.About three months after the death of his twelfth wife, theBashaw, who had returned from his castle to the principaltown in his dominions, passed by the house of an old ladyand her two daughters, who were people of some rank, but byno means wealthy. The two young ladies were very pretty,and the fame of their beauty having reached Blue Beard, bedetermined to ask one of them in marriage. Having ordereda carriage, he called at their house, where he saw the twoyoung ladies, and was very politely received by their mother,with whom he begged a few moments conversation, which hebegan by describing his immense riches, and then told her thepurpose of his visit, begging she would use her interest in hisfavour. They were both so lovely, he said, that he would behappy to get either of them for bis wife, and would thereforeleave it to their own choice to determine upon the subject,and immediately took his leave.When the proposals of Blue Beard were mentioned to theyoung ladies by their mother, both Miss Anne and her sisteri'atima protested that they would never marry an ugly man,and particularly one with such a frightful beard; besides,although he possessed such immense riches, it was reportedin the country, that he had married several beautiful ladies,and nobody could tell what had become of them.The mother said, that the gentleman was agreeable in his•conversation and manners; that the ugliness of his face, andthe blue beard, were defects which they soon would bereconciled to from habit; that his immense riches wouldprocure them every luxury that their heart could desire; andhe was so civil, that she was certain the scandalous reportsabout his having so many wives, must be entirely withoutfoundation.The two young ladies, who were as civil as they possiblycould, in order to conceal the disgust they felt at Blue Beard,and to soften their refusal, replied to this effect:—That, atpresent, they had no desire to change their situation; but, ifthey had, the one sister could never think of depriving theother of so good a match, and that they did not wish to boseparated.Blue Beard having called next day, the old lady told himwhat her daughters had said ; on which he sighed deeply, andpretended to be very much’disappointed; but, as be bad themother ou his side, he still continued his visits to the family.Blue Beard, knowing the attractions that fine houses, finefurniture, and fine entertainments, have ou the minds of ladiesin general, invited the mother, her two daughters, and two orthree other ladies, who were then on a visit to them, to spenda day or two with him at his castle.Blue Beard’s invitation was accepted, and having spent aconsiderable time in arranging their wardrobe, and in adorn¬ing their persons, they all set out for the splendid mansion ofBlue Beard. When they reached the castle, Blue Beard,attended by a number of his servants in splendid dresses,received them with the most polite courtesy, and conductedthem to a magnificent drawing-room.An elegant repast was ready in the dining-room, to whichthey adjourned. Here they were again astonished by thegrandeur of the apartment and the elegance of the entertain¬ment ; and they felt so very happy, that the evening passedaway before any of them were aware of it.Next day, after they had finished breakfast, the ladies pro¬ceeded to examine the pictures and furniture of the roomsthat were open, and were truly astonished at the magnificencethat everywhere met their view.The party felt so agreeable amidst the scenes of festivity,that they continued at the castle for several days, duringwhich the cunning Blue Beard by every obsequious service,tried to gain the favour of his fair guests. Personal attentions,even although paid us by an ugly creature, seldom fail tomake a favourable impression, and therefore it was no wonderthat Patima, the youngest of the two sisters, began to thinkBlue Beard a very polite, pleasant, and civil gentleman, andthat the beard, which she and her sister had been so muchafraid of, was not so very blue.A short time after her return home, Fatima, who wasdelighted with the attention which had been paid her at the6castle, told her mother that she did not now feel any objectionsto accept of Blue Beard as a husband. The old ladyimmediately communicated to him the change of herdaughter’s sentiments.Blue Beard, who lost no time in paying the family a visit,was in a few days privately married to the young lady, andsoon after the ceremony, Fatima, accompanied by her sister,returned to the castle, the wife of Blue Beard.On arriving there, they were received at the entrance by allhis retinue, attired in elegant dresses; and Blue Beard, aftersaluting his bride, led the way to an elegant entertainment,where, every thing that could add to their comfort beingprepared, they spent the evening in the most agreeablemanner.The next day, and every succeeding day, Blue Beard alwaysvaried the amusements; and a month had passed awayimperceptibly, when he told his wife that ho was obliged toleave her for a few weeks, as he had some affairs to transactin a distant part of the country, which required his personalattendance.“ But,” said he, “my dear Fatima, yon may enjoy yourselfduring my absence in any way that will tend to your happi¬ness ; and you can invite your friends to make the time pass moreagreeably, for you are sole mistress in this castle. Here arethe keys of the two large wardrobes; this is the key of thegreat box that contains the best plate, which we use forcompany; this o f my strong box, where I keep my money;and this belongs to the casket in which are all my jewels.Here also is a master key to all the rooms in the house; butthis small key kelongs to the blue closet at the end of thelong gallery on the ground-floor. I give you leave,” heIcontinued, “ to open, or to do what you like with all the restof the castle except this closet. Nowr, my dear, rememberyou must not enter it, nor even put the key into the lock. Ifi you do not obey mfe in this, expect the most dreadful ofI punishments.”She promised implicit obedience to his orders, and thenaccompanied him to the gate, where Blue Beard, after salutingi her in a tender manner, stepped into the coach, and droveaway.When Blue Beard was gone, Fatima sent a kind of invita¬tion to her friends to come immediately to the castle, andordered a grand entertainment to be prepared for theirreception. She also sent a messenger to her two brothers,both officers in the army, who were quartered about fortymiles distant, requesting they would obtain leave of absence,and spend a few days with her. So eager were her friends tosee the fine apartments and the riches of Blue Beard’s castle,of which they had heard so much, that in less than two hoursafter receiving the notice, the whole company were assembled,with the exception of her brothers, who were not expected tillthe following day.As her guests arrived long before the time appointed forthe entertainment, Fatima took them through every apart¬ment in the castle, and displayed all the wealth she hadacquired by her marriage with Blue Beard.On being told that every thing was ready, Fatima conductedher guests to the dining-room, where they sat down to themost magnificent repast, served up in dishes and covers of thefinest gold. Music and other amusements succeeded, and thenight was far advanced before the company left the castle*During the day, Fatima was so much engaged, that she8never once thought of the blue closet, which Blue Beard hadgiven her such strict commands not to open ; but when allthe visitors were gone, and she had retired to her chamber,the restrictions that Blue Beard had put upon her not toexamine the closet, raised her curiosity to know its contentsto such a degree, as to be almost irresistible.She took out the key, which was made of the finest gold,with several characters engraved on the handle; and afterexamining it carefully, she went to consult with her sister onthe subject that engrossed her thoughts. Anne used everyargument she could think of to persuade Fatima against theimprudence of her desires, in wishing to pry into what BlueBeard had so strictly forbidden, and also reminded her of thethreats he had used; but they were all in vain, for herremonstrances only served to raise Fatima’s curiosity thehigher, and she determined to gratify it, whatever the resultmight be.From the lateness of the hour, she knew there was nodanger of her being observed by any of the servants; there¬fore, in spite of all that her sister could do, she seized one ofthe candles, and hurried down stairs to the fatal closet. Onreaching the door she stopped, and began to reason withherself on the propriety of her conduct; but her anxiety toknow what the closet contained, and thinking, as Blue Beardwas so very fond of her, that he would easily forgive herdisobeying him, she, with a trembling hand, applied the keyto the lock, and opened the door.After unlocking the door, she remained a few momentsundetermined whether to proceed or not, but her curiosityurged her forward; and as she observed nothing to intimidateher, she entered with some little degree of resolution. She9had only advanced a few steps, when the most frightful scenemet her view: and, struck with horror and dismay, shedropped the key of the closet. She was in the midst of blood ;and the heads, bodies, and the mutilated limbs of murderedladies lay scattered on the floor. These ladies had all beenmarried to Blue Beard, and had all suffered dreadful deathsfor their imprudent curiosity.Blue Beard’s first wife was a bold spirited woman, withwhom he quarrelled soon after marriage; and having in theheat of his anger murdered her, he concealed the body in thisblue closet. The rest of his wives, who, like Fatima, couldnot refrain from indulging their curiosity, he had killed foracting contrary to his express commands; and the key, whichwas the gift of a fairy, had always betrayed their fatal dis¬obedience.The terror of Fatima, whose blood was chilled within her,while her hair stood on end, was not diminished on discerningthese dreadful words on the wall, in large characters—“tub reward op disobedience and imprudent curiosity !”She trembled violently; but, on recovering a little, shesummoned sufficient resolution to snatch up the key, andleave this abode of horror and dismay. Almost withoutknowing what she did, from the agitated state of her mind,she closed the door behind her, and locked it.As she went up stairs, her imagination conjured up theghosts of these murdered ladies to her view, and a faintnesscoming over her, she was obliged for a few moments to leanagainst the bannister, to regain strength enough to reach hersister’s chamber, to whom she related the whole of the horrid10adventure. On her sister inquiring if she locked the door,Fatima produced the key, but it was all covered with blood,and they both turned pale with fear. They spent a greatpart of the night in trying to clean off the blood from the key,which was the only evidence of Fatima’s imprudence; but itwas without effect; for though they washed and scoured itwith brick dust and sand, no sooner was the blood removedfrom one side than it appeared on tl*3 other. Fatigued with,scene she had gone through, and devising means for escapingthe vengeance of her cruel husband, Blue Beard.Fatima rose at a late hour next day, and after breakfast,she consulted her sister how she ought to proceed. As BlueBeard was to be absent for some weeks, she thought of makingher escape from the castle before his return; but as herbrothers were expected in an hour or two, she resolved to tellthem what had taken place, and be guided by their advice.A loud knock at the gate made her almost leap for joy, andshe cried, “They are come! they are come!” but what washer consternation when Blue Beard hastily opened the doorand entered! It was impossible for Fatima to conceal heragitation, while Blue Beard mentioned, without seeming toobserve her uneasiness, that he had been met by a messenger,who was on the way to the castle to prevent his journey, andtherefore his presence there would not now be necessary.Fatima pretended to be very happy at his sudden return,and said every thing she could think of to please him; butBlue Beard, who guessed what she had been about, requestedthe keys, in order, as he said, that he might change his dress,She went to her chamber, and soon returned with the keys.11all except the one belonging to the bine closet, and put theminto his hand. He took the keys from her with seemingindifference, and after glancing at them minutely, said, rathersternly, “How is this, Fatima? I do not see the key of theblue closet here! Go and bring it to me instantly.”The poor girl feeling the crisis of her fate approaching, said,“I will go and search for it,” and left the apartment in tears.She went straight to her sister’s chamber, where they againtried every means, but in vain, to remove the blood from thekey. She continued a few moments agitated and irresolute,but the voice of Blue Beard calling for her, left no time forher consideration, and she was forced to return to the apart¬ment where she had left her husband, and reluctantly gavehim the fatal key.On receiving the key, Blue Beard, after examining it, burstinto a terrible rage, and said with great harshness,—“Pray, madam, how came this blood here?”“ I am sure I do not know,” replied poor Fatima, tremblingand turning pale.“What! do you not know?” cried Blue Beard, in a voicelike thunder, which made poor Fatima start with fear; “ butI know well! You have been in the forbidden blue closet!And since you are so fond of prying into secrets, you shalltake up your abode with the ladies you saw in that closet.Now, madam, expect no mercy, as nothing can alter yourfate. The punishment you shall receive is only the justreward of your disobedience and imprudent curiosity.”Almost expiring with terror, the trembling Fatima sunkupon her knees, and implored him in the most piteous mannerto forgive her. While supplicating him to spare her life, shelooked so mournfully in his face, that it would have melted12any heart which was not harder than stone. However, it hadno effect on the cruel Blue Beard ; for he drew his dreadfulscimitar, and desired her to prepare for immediate death.Blue Beard had raised his arm to perpetrate the horrible'deed, when a dreadful shriek from her sister, who at thatmoment entered her apartment arrested his attention. Hersister entreated him to spare the life of Fatima, but he wasdeaf to her intercession, and the only favour that the relent¬less tyrant would grant to her entreaties, was a respite of aquarter of an hour, that she might make her peace withheaven before he put her to death.Blue Beard, after he had promised to allow this, in orderto secure his victim during the short space allotted her forprayer, and that her screams or groans might not reach thedomestics, led, or rather dragged her up to a large hall, in thetop of the tower of the castle, to which they were followed byher sister. He then told her to make the best use of hertime, as she might expect his return the moment it elapsed,and immediately left the place.When alone with her sister, Fatima felt her dreadfulsituation, and again burst into tears. Only fifteen shortminutes between her and the most cruel death, without theleast chance of escape; for Blue Beard had secured the doorwhen he retired, and the staircase they saw only led to thebattlements. Fatima’s thoughts were now turned to herbrothers, whom she expected that day, and she requested hersister to ascend to the top of the tower, to see if there wereany appearance of them, for on them her whole expectationof deliverance now rested; or, if she saw any person approach¬ing, to beckon them to come to her assistance.Fatima’s sister immediately ascended to the top of the131 battlements, where she stood to observe if any one approached4 the castle, while the poor trembling girl below, every minute,• cried out, “ Sister Anne, my dear sister Anne, do you see. any person approaching yet ?”Her sister always replied, “ There is not a human being in| view, and I see nothing but the sun and the grass.”She was on her knees bewailing her fate, when Blue Beard,in a tremendous voice cried out, “Are you ready? the timeis expired;” and she heard the sound of his footstepsapproaching.She again supplicated him to spare her life, but he refused;and he was proceeding to seize her, when she entreated fiveminutes longer to finish her prayers. Blue Beard knowingshe was completely in his power, and without the least chanceof escape, granted her the five minutes she had requested, andthen retired.Fatima again renewed her inquiries to her sister; “ Do yousee no one coming yet?”Her sister replied, “There is not a human being withinsight.”When the five minutes were elapsed, the voice of BlueBeard was heard bawling out, “Are you ready yet?”She again beseeched him to allow her only two minutesmore, and then addressed her sister, “Dear sister Anne, doyou see any one coming yet?’’“I see,” said her sister, “a cloud of dust rising a little tothe left.”In breathless agitation she again cried out, “Do you thinkit is my brothers ?”“ Alas 1 no, my dearest Fatima,” replied the sister, “ it isonly a flock of sheep.”uAgain the voice of Blue Beard was heard and she beggedfor one minute longer. She then called out for the last time,“ Sister Anne, do you see no one coming yet ?”Her sister quickly answered, “ I see two men on horseback,but they are still a great way off.”The hope of deliverance made Fatima exclaim, in theecstacy of the moment, “ Thank Heaven 1 thank Heaven! Ishall yet be saved, for it must be my two brothers!—my dearsister, make every signal in your power to hasten them forward,or they will be too late to prevent my fate.”Blue Beard’s patience being exhausted, he burst open thedoor in a rage, and made a blow with his scimitar at thewretched Fatima, with the intention of striking off her head;but she sprang close to him and evaded it. Furious at beingfoiled in his aim, he threw her from him, and then seizing herby the hair of the head, was in the act of striking her a blowwith his scimitar, which would have terminated her existence,when the noise of persons approaching, with hasty steps,arrested the progress of his sanguinary arm. Blue Beard badnot time to conjecture who the intruders might be, when thedoor opened, and two officers with their swords drawn,rushed into the apartment.Struck with terror, the wretch released his wife from hisgrasp, and without attempting to resist, he endeavoured toeffect his escape from the resentment of her brothers; butthey pursued, and seized him before he had got above twentypaces from the place. After reproaching Blue Beard with hiscruelty, they dragged him back to the spot where he intendedto have murdered their sister; and there, stabbing him to theheart with their swords, he expired uttering the most horridoaths and imprecations.15Fatima, who had fallen to the ground at the time BlueBeard quitted the hold of her, still lay in the same situationinsensible; for the appearance of her brothers at the momentshe expected certain death, had thrown her into a faint, whichcontinued during the whole of the time they were engaged indespatching her husband.The two young officers now turned their attention to theirsister, whom they raised from the ground, but she could hardlybe persuaded of her safety, till they pointed to where BlueBeard lay extended lifeless.Fatima, on recovering a little, tenderly embraced herdeliverers: and the appearance of their sister Anne, who hadcome down from the top of the battlements, added to theirhappiness.All those horrid murders which had been committed byBlue Beard, were unknown to his domestics, on whosecredulity he imposed by falsehoods, which they had no meansof detecting: Fatima and her brothers thought the most16prudent way to act, was to assemble them together, and thendisclose the wickedness of their late master.It was now that each of the domestics could recall to theirmemory the bitter sigh and heavy groan that had struck upontheir cars, shortly before the wives of Blue Beard disappeared;yet the artful, and seemingly meek behaviour of their master,contrived to lull all suspicion of the atrocious fiend. It waswith some difficulty they made themselves believe that theyhad been serving this demon in human form.By the directions of Fatima, her two brothers conductedall the servants to the dreadful scene of her husband’scruelties; and then showing them his dead body, related thewhole occurrences which had taken place. They all said thathis punishment was not adequate to what he deserved, andbegged that they might be continued in the service of theirmistress. As Blue Beard had no relations, Fatima was soleheir to the whole of his immense property; and mistress ofthe castle; in the possession of which she was confirmed bythe laws of the country.Immediately after the interment of the dead bodies, thecompany retired to Blue Beard’s private chamber, and onexamining his papers discovered a sealed packet, which, onbeing opened, contained a sheet of parchment, on which waswritten the names of his murdered wives, with the addressesof their nearest relatives, and at Fatima’s request, herbrothers, with as much delicacy and feeling as the distressingand mournful tidings would call forth, wrote to them a fullexplanation of Blue Beard’s conduct, and a detailed accountof the circumstances which led to the tragic termination ofthis infamous character.Soon after this, Fatima gave a magnificent entertainmentto all her friends, where happiness was seen in every face;and on this occasion the poor, who were assembled for manymiles round, partook most liberally of her bounty. Thoughpossessed of riches almost inexhaustible, Fatima disposed ofthem with so much discretion, that she gained the esteem ofall who knew her. She bestowed handsome fortunes on hertwo brothers, who were the means of saving her life; and toher sister who was married about twelve months after, shegave a very large dowry.The beauty, riches, and amiable conduct of Fatima,attracted a number of admirers; and among others, a youngnobleman of very high rank, who to a handsome person,added every quality calculated to make a good husband; andafter a reasonable time spent in courtship, their marriage wascelebrated with great rejoicings.11THE WHITE CAT.An account has long been preserved of a king who had threesons. These young men were all handsome in their forms,interesting in their countenances, noble and generous in theirdispositions, and amiable and beneficent in their conduct.That he might pass the remainder of his days in tranquillity,he determined to employ the princes in such a manner as atonce to give each of them the hope of succeeding to the crown.He sent for them to his closet, and after having kindly con¬versed with them, he said, “ You must be sensible, my dearchildren, that my advanced age prevents me from attendingas closely as I formerly did to the affairs of state. I fear thismaybe injurious to my subjects; and I therefore desire toplace my crown on the head of one of you.“ It is at least just that you should endeavour, in return formy intention, to give me some proof of your diligence, in ful¬filling any desire I may entertain, particularly if it can con¬tribute to the amusement of my old age. I cannot helpthinking that a little dog, particularly handsome and faithful,would, of all things, afford me the greatest entertainment.Without, therefore, bestowing a voluntary preference on anyone of you, I declare, that he who procures for me the mostcurious and interesting little dog, shall be my successor.”Each took a different road: we shall record the adventuresof the youngest, the most accomplished prince of the age.Not a day passed, in which he did not purchase all thehandsome dogs that he could meet with.At length, wandering he knew'not whither, he found him¬self in a forest. Night suddenly came on, and with it aviolent storm of thunder, lightning, and rain. To add to hisperplexity he lost his W'ay. After he had wandered about foralong time, he perceived alight, which induced him to believethat he was not far from some house. He pursued his waytoward it, and in a short time found himself at the gates ofthe most magnificent palace he had ever beheld.The prince was so astonished that he dared not move astep; but presently he felt himself pushed gently on by someother hands from behind him. He walked on in great per¬plexity, till he entered a vestibule inlaid with porphyry andjasper: at this instant he heard a voice chant the followffgwords:—18“ Welcome prince, no danger fear,Love and bliss attend you here ;You shall break a magic spell.That on a beauteous lady fell.Welcome prince, no danger fear.Love and bliss attend you here.”When he had passed through an immense suit of apart"'ments, all equally superb, he was stopped by the hands, anda large easy chair rolled of itself towards the fire place. A fireappeared to kindle and bum of itself; and the hands, whichhe observed were extremely white and delicate, took off biswet clothes, and supplied their place with the finest linenimaginable: over these was placed a wrapping - gow n,embroidered with the brightest gold, and enriched with pearls.There was in it a table spread for a repast; every articlefor use was of burnished gold, adorned with jewelsThe prince observed that there w'ere two covers set, andwas wondering who would be his companion, when his atten¬tion was attracted to a small figure not a foot high, whichjust then entered the room, and advanced toward him.The prince was at a loss what to think. The little figurenow approached, and throwing aside her veil, he beheld amost beautiful white cat; she seemed young and melancholy,and addressing herself to the prince (for she had a humanvoice,) she said, “Prince, you are welcome; your presenceaffords me great pleasure.”“Madam,” replied the prince, “I would fain thank you foryour generosity; but you will pardon me for expressing theastonishment I feel, that under your present form you shouldpossess the gift of human speech, and the magnificent palaceI see.”When supper was over, the prince perceived that the whitecat had a miniature portrait set in gold, suspended to one ofher feet. He begged her permission to look at it, and to hisastonishment, found that it was the portrait of a young manexactly like himself.When the night was far advanced, the white cat washedhim good-night, and he wms conducted by the hands to a bed¬chamber which differed from all the apartments he had yetseen in the palace, being hung with the wings of butterflies,mingled with the most curious feathers.The prince was undressed and put into bed by the hands,but not a word was spoken, and in the morning was awakenedby a confused noise.He looked into the court-yard, and perceived more thanfive hundred cats busily employed in preparing for the field,for this was a day of festival.19The time of the prince passed so delightfully that he hadalmost forgotten that he had yet to procure a little dog forthe king his father.“Alas!” said he to the white cat, “how it will afflict meto leave you! Either make yourself a lady, or let me becomea cat. She smiled at the prince’s wish, but made him no reply.At length the twelvemonths were nearly expired. Thewhite cat, who knew the very day on which the prince w'as toreach his father’s palace, reminded him that he had but threedays longer to look for a perfect little dog.The prince began to lament how he had so neglected hisduty. But the white cat told him not to afflict himself, sinceshe would not only provide him with a little dog, but alsowith a horse, which should safely convey him in less thantwelve hours.“Look at this,” said she, showing him an acorn, “thiscontains what you desire.”The young prince arrived first at the place which had beenagreed upon by him and his two brothers: they followed soonafterwards.The next morning they went together to the royal palace.The dogs of the two elder princes were lying on cushions, andwere carefully wrapped in embroidered quilts, that thegreatest care might be taken of them.The king having examined the two little dogs of the elderprinces, declared he thought they were so equally beautifulthat he knew not to which he could with justice give the pre¬ference. They accordingly began to dispute, when theyoungest prince taking the acorn from his pocket, soonterminated their contentions: for a little dog appeared whichcould with ease go through the ring of a lady’s finger, andwas, moreover, a miracle of beauty.The king could not possibly hesitate in declaring his satis¬faction with them all; though he was obliged to own thesuperiority of the youngest prince’s offering.He begged, however, that they would take another year toprocure him a piece of linen, so exquisitely fine, that it mightbe drawn through a small ring.The youngest son remounted his horse and soon arrived atthe palace of his favourite white cat, who received him withextreme joy.“Make yourself perfectly easy, dear prince,” she said “Ihave in my palace some cats that are extremely ingenious inmanufacturing such linen, as the king requires.The second period soon glided away, but the white cat tookcare to remind him of his duty in proper time.She then presented him with a nut. “ You will find in it.”20said she, “ the piece of fine linen I promised you; do notbreak the shell until you arc in the presence of the king yourfather.”The princes hastened to present to the king the curiouspresents he had required them to procure.The eldest produced a piece of linen so exquisitely fine, thathis friends had no doubt but that it would pass through thesmall ring.The ring, which had been preserved ever since by the ro3Taltreasurer, was now produced; but although almost everyperson thought that the eldest prince would succeed, yet whenthe king tried to draw it through the ring, it would not pass.The second prince now advanced, who made as sure otobtaining the crown as his elder brother had done. But, alas!with no better success; for, though his piece of linen wasextremely fine, yet it could not be drawn through so small aring.It was now the youngest prince’s turn, who accordinglycame forward, and opening an elegant little box inlaid withjewels, he took out a nut.He cracked the shell, expecting that he should immediatelyperceive his piece of linen. But what was his astonishmentto perceive only a smaller nut! The prince cracked this,which was filled with a kernel. He divided the kernel, andfound in the middle of it a grain of wheat. He opened thegrain of wheat, and discovered a millet-seed. And havingopened the grain of millet-seed, to the astonishment of allwho were present, he drew from it a piece of linen, fourhundred yards long, and fine enough not only to be drawnthrough the ring, but even through the eye of the smallestneedle.“My sons,” said he, “it is so gratifying to the heart of afather, to receive proofs of his children’s love and obedience,that I cannot deny myself the satisfaction of requiring oneeffort more.“ I must request you to undertake another expedition; andwhichever, by the end of a year, shall bring me the mostbeautiful lady, shall marry her, and receive my crown.”The youngest prince, within twelve hours, again arrived atthe palace of his dear white cat.Every kind of entertainment occupied the time, as it haddone before.At last only one day remained of the third year!The white cat then addressed him: “ To-morrow, my prince,you must present yourself at the palace of your father, andgive him the remaining proof of your obedience.“ It depends on yourself alone, whether you succeed this21time; for the time is cotoe in which the enchantment I suffermay be terminated; and I have some hopes that my appear¬ance would not be much inferior to that of the ladies whomay be presented by your brothers.“You must, however,” said she, “cut off my head and tail,and throw them into the fire.”“ I!” said the prince, with horror, “ I cut off your head andtail! you surely mean to try my gratitude and regard, which,believe me, will never be wanting.”The prince could not restrain his tears ; yet he consideredhimself bound to execute the dreadful task. The white catcontinued to press him so earnestly to perform this servicefor her, that with a reluctant hand he drew his sword, cut offher head and tail, and threw them into the fire. Immediatelyafter he had done this, the most beautiful lady his eyes hadever seen stood before him; and he had not recoveredsufficiently from his surprise to speak to her, when a long trainof attendants, who had recovered their proper forms at thesame instant with their mistress, came to offer their humblecongratulations. She received them with great kindness, andwhen they had retired, she thus addressed the astonishedprince:—Do not imagine, my dear prince, that I have always beena cat, or that my parentage is obscure. My father was amonarch of six kingdoms; he loved my mother with extremeaffection, leaving her always at the discretion of her owninclination. Her prevailing amusement was that of travel¬ling; and a short time before I was born, having heard thatsome fairies were in possession of the most delicious fruits,she had so strong a desire to see these gardens, and to tastethe fruit, that she immediately set out for the distant countryin which they were to be found. She arrived at the abodeof the fairies, which she found to be a magnificent palaceglittering on every side with gold and jewels. She knockedat the gate some time, but no one came; nor could sheperceive the least sign of any inhabitants. These circum¬stances only increased her desire. She saw the tops of thetrees above the garden walls, and could perceive the temptingfruit with which they were loaded. The queen, unable toreturn home without the gratification she desired, ordered herattendants to place tents near the gate of the palace, as shewas determined to watch for an opportunity of speaking tothe persons who might pass in or out. One night, as she layhalf asleep, she turned about, and opening her eyes, perceiveda little old woman of ugly and deformed appearance, seatedin the chair by her bed side.22“ ‘ I, and my sister fairies,’ said this woman, ‘ think it veryindiscreet in your majesty so obstinately to persist in wishingfor our fruit; but, since your valuable life is endangered, weconsent to allow you as much as you can carry away, providedyou, in return, shall give us what we ask.’“ ‘ Ah ! kind fairy,’ said the queen, ‘ I will grant you anything I can bestow, even my kingdoms, on condition that Imay cat of your fruit.’“ The old fairy then informed my mother, that they wouldrequire the first child she should have, as soon as it was born.She added, however, that the utmost care should be taken ofit, and that it should be eminently accomplished. The queenreplied, that severe as the condition was, she must submit, asnothing but the fruit would save her life.“In short, my prince,” continued the young lady; “mymother arose, was dressed, instantly set off to the palace ofthe fairies, and satisfied her longing. She then returned tothe king my father, but said not a word of the promise shehad made to give her first child to the fairies. This reflection,however, afterwards made her very melancholy, till, at length,being urged by the king to disclose the cause of her depression,she confessed the truth.“ As soon as I was born, ho had me conveyed to a towerin the palace, to which there were twenty flights of stairs,each having a door; but my father kept the key of them all,so that no one came near me without his knowledge. Whenthe fairies understood what had been done, they first sent todemand me, and on my father’s refusal, they let loose in hisdominions a large and dreadful dragon. This enormousreptile destroyed men, women and children; and even thevegetation of every kind began to die throughout thekingdom. The king’s distress was increased by all thisdevastation; and finding that in a short time his wholeempire would be annihilated, he consented to resign me. Thefairies placed me in a turret of the palace elegantly furnished,but it had no door; so that access to me could only beobtained through the windows. I had, however the libertyto go out into a delightful garden. One day, however, as Iwas talking to my birds, I perceived a young gentleman whowas listening to me. As I had never before seen any personbut the fairies, I thought him very pleasing. He looked atme, and bowed with respect, but seemed afraid to speak, ashe knew I was in the palace of fairies. He ventured to speakto me, and informed me that he thought me extremelybeautiful; and said a great deal about the happiness mysociety would give him for life. I resolved to find some means23of escaping, and was not long in contriving a probable schemefor the execution of my plan. I requested the fairies to allowme a netting-needle, a mesh, and some cord, that I mightmake some nets, and amuse myself with catching birds at mywindow. This request they readily complied with; and in ashort time I completed a ladder long enough to reach theground. When the young gentleman next came under mywindow I told him what I had done, and invited him to comeinto my room, to which he rapturously consented. I then letdown the ladder, which he mounted, and quickly entered myturret. Whilst we were talking, one of the fairies, mountedon a dragon, rushed in at the window of my room. One ofthem then touched me with a wand, and I instantly becamea white cat. The same fairy then informed me of the deathof my parents; and pronounced upon me as a sentence, ‘ thatI should not be restored to my natural form until a youngprince, the exact resemblance of him whom I had already seenand lost, should cut off my head and tail, and cast them intoa fire. You, my prince, are that exact resemblance, and youhave dissolved the enchantment.”The prince and princess set out together, in a car of extra¬ordinary splendour and reached their destination just as thetwo brothers had arrived, each with a beautiful lady.The king having heard that all his sons had succeeded infinding and obtaining what he had exacted, again began tothink of some fresh expedient to procrastinate the surrenderof his crown. The elder princes felt indignant that suchbeautiful and interesting ladies as had consented to accompanythem should be subjected to such unmerited disappointment.The youngest prince was so enraptured with his princess, thathe scarcely thought about the competition, At that instantthe princess advanced, and addressed the old monarch.“ I lament that your majesty, who is so capable of govern¬ing, should have thought of resigning the crown. I am sofortunate as to have six kingdoms included in my empire.Permit me to bestow one on each of the elder princes, andto enjoy the remaining four with your youngest son. Andmay it please your majesty to keep your own kingdom, andmake no decision concerning the beauty of the princessesbefore you, each of whom will live happily with her respectiveprince.”The loud acclamations that reached the ear of the youngprince awakened him, for the morning was far advanced ; andhis servant was calling him out of bed, where hehadonlybeen dreaming, the first night after he had set out on histravels.HISTORIES, RELIGIOUS TRACTS, SONG BOOKS, &c.Price ONE PENN'S1 each.SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.nUXSCSX.X.ANSOUS.3. The Anecdote Book.2. The Scrap Book.3. The Story Teller.4. The Book of Fate.5. The Fortune Teller.6. The Dream Interpreter.7. The Way to Wealth.8. The Medical Guide.9. The Family Receipt Book.10. The Sentimental Reciter.11. The Comic Reciter.12. The Letter Writer.13. The Valentine Writer, Love.14. — — Comic.15. Fireside Amusements.16. Outdoor Amusements.17. The Maid Servant’s Guide.18. The Art of Preserving Health.19. Domestic Cookery.20. The Magic Oracle.21. Life of Ambrose Gwinnett.22. Readings for Winter Evenings.23. Popular Irish Stories.24. Irish Tales and Legends.25. Life of Louis Philippe.26. Life of Sir Robert Peel.27. Life of the Duke of Wellington.28. Life of Napoleon.29. The Spectre Bridegroom, Sec.30. Amusing Irish Stories.31. The Exiles of Siberia.32. Life of Rob Roy.33. Toast Master’s Companion.34. Life of Robin Hood, with cuts,35. Life of Robert Burns.36. Life of Sir William Wallace.37. Life of Robert Bruce.38. History of Prince Charles Stuart.39. Paul and Virginia.40. Robinson Crusoe, with cuts.41. Sindbad the Sailor, with cuts.42. Blue Beard, with cuts.43. Whittington and his Cat, witheuts.44. Sovereigns of Gt, Britain,45. Cinderella, with cuts.46. Jack the Giant Killer, ttriih cuts.47. The Yellow Dwarf, with cuts.48. The Sleeping Beauty, with cuts.49. The Universal Riddler, icith cuts.50. The Little Deserter, with nits.51. The Babes in the Wood, with cuts.52. The Pictorial Alphabet, witheuts.53. ASsop’s Fables, tenth cuts.54. Games and Amusements, icith cuts.55. The New Year’s Gift, with cuts.56. The Poetical Alphabet, with cuts.57. Barbauld’s Lessons, with cuts.58. Ali Baba, or the 40 Thieves, cuts.59. Alladin, or the Wondf. Lamp, cuts.60. The Life of Lord Nelson.61. The Small Preceptor.62. The Child’s Assistant.3&EI.XGZOUS.81.82.83.84.85.86.87.88.89.90.91.1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.The Juvenile Prayer Boole.The Private Prayer Book.The Family Prayer Book.The History of the Jews.The Destruction of Jerusalem.Religious Anecdotes.Scripture Stories.Sketch of all Religions.History of the Bible, with cuts.The Life of Christ.The Life of St. Paul.92. The Life of John Knox.93. The Life of Dr. Chalmers.94. Watts’s Divine Songs, with cuts.95. Sacred History.96. Joseph and his Brethren.97. History of Moses.98. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.99. Lives of the Apostles.100. The Pilgrim’s Progress, with cuts.101. The Shorter Catechism.102. The Mother’s Catechism.The Scottish Minstrel, 1st scries.— — 2d —— — 3d —— — 4th —— — 5th —— — 6th —The English Minstrel, 1st —— — 2d —— — 3d —— _ *4th —5th6 thsemes.13. The Irish Minstrel, 1st series.14. — — 2d —15. — — 3d —16. — — 4 til —17. The Comic Minstrel, 1st —18.19.20.21.22.2d3d4th5th6th23. The Negro Minstrel, 1st24. — — 2dOthers in Preparation.