THE' .HISTORYORMOLL FLANDERS,WHOWAS BORN IN NEWGATE,Hid, during a life of continued varietiesfor threescore years,Was twelve years a Whore,Five times a wife, whereof once to herOWN BROTHER,Twelve years a Thief,Was eighteen times in Bridewell,Forty times Jn other prisons,Fifteen times whipt at the cart's tail.Four timesburned in the hand—Once con-demned for life,Eight years transported to Virginia,And at last grew rich,—lived ho»est,AND DIED A PENITENT*EDINBURGH;Printed for the Booksellers.182?.HISTORYOFMOLL FLANDERS.ji THE most remarkable account that[ can give of my parents is, that::ny father was hanged for felony, andmy mother transported for the same,'"after she was delivered of me in New¬gate; from whence I was taken bysomp4gypsies whom I remember, and left meat Colchester in Essex j where the ma¬gistrates taking compassion on me, putrae to a nurse; with whom I lived thir¬teen years, till such timeasshedied.andthen being fancied by a rich gentle¬woman for my nice needle-work,shared in the education of herdaughtersin learning to dance, speak French, andplaying upon music, thesequalificationstogether with my beauty, caused mylady’s eldest son to pretend love to meand at last with his alluring speechesand powerful gold, his melting kisses,and affectionate promises that1 he would3i parry me as seon as he came to age,,le prevailed upon me to surrender mjrrirginity up to him, and to use mevhensoever he pleased; but scarce a: ?ear had expired before that his young¬est brother pretended love al's-o jin suchin open and honest manner, insomuch. :hat all the family took notice ot it.Bowl sbouldjmake a wife to him, andit the same time be a whore to theddest brother, I coujLd not tell withoutbeing ruined; as loving the former to3xtremity, beingwithchildby him,butin short, there happening suchdisputes,between the two brothers, it had like tohave driven me from the family, butthe eldest brother consented I shouldmarry the youngest, as not caring tomarry me himself, behold, I privatelywedded him, who the first night hecame so drunk to my bed, that I easily.persuaded him he had done what his'eldest brother had done before him.In two years after he died, leavingi me with two, children, who were takenScare of by his parents, and having theni a tolerable good fortune in my ownj hands, I married a Draper, who soonj>?,Sforced from me for debt into France'which obliged me to a lodging inn.f%6the Mint, where, in a widow's habit Itook upon me the name of Mrs. Fhn-, j. i, ?:»?. i' V 'Vnii' ders. Herel was courted as a mistressby several lewd men, bat all these Iscorned, and itwasmy good fortune tomarry a gentleman whose state was inVirginia, and whom I deceived by pre-tendiug to him I was a greater fortunethan. I really was. But indeed heproved a very good husband, and pre~i vailed with me to gaover fwich .him intoVirginia, where-l'JTVas kindly receivedby my husband’^ mother. But/jere Ifou id that our family w^as of theiNsew-gate train, she shewing me torhere'^hewas burnt in the hand, bidding me notwonder ? for that mayor D-^—was aneminent pickr-pocket, Justice B -twas a shop-lifter, and Tom W fwho had so narrowly escaped the nub-bing post was there become an excel¬lent dissenting preacher.Hire I lived about three years with¬out having children, but not withoutan inward remorse, as knowing mysecond husband was not dead. Andthis set me upon returning again intoEngland, teasing my spouse for thatpurpose, who wanted to know veryi much the true cause of it. But I toldhis mother who canae to pump me,that her story she had told me of hisbeing transported, confirmed me in the*belief she was my mother, who wasj| delivered of me in Newgate, and bywhich means she was saved from thegallows. This very much surprizedi her, but dreading the thoughts ot hav-I iog another child by my husband,! was8forqed to dfsclosc the matter to excuse*iny coldness- to him in my embraces.Upomhearuig this heSdlinto so deep ameiahcliMy, that twice lie attempted tohangr'diimself but was prevented ; andk wajs^ich very much difficulty before-1 could obtain. leave to return to Eng¬land from him, which I did in themonth of August, after eightyearscon-tinuance in that country, landing atMilford Haven in Wales, and in nine-weeks arrived nt London.Sometime after I went to Bath, where-making my circumstances known, mylandlady lodged and boarded me at avery cheap rate, till the spring, when Iwas- courted by a gentleman who had awife distempered in the head, and 1 re¬ceived several presents from him, as ahundred guineas af one time, & fifty atanother, for taking care of him in anillness. In short I found him my bestfriend,takingseveraljoarnies with him,till at length, he got me with child, andwas delivered of a line boy, going bythe name of Sir Walter Cleave’s Lady.From Bath we returned to Hammer¬smith, near London. Six years I livedwith this gentleman, by whom 1 bad.9 ' .1 three children till at length he fell sick•: in a house he had taken tor his wifeand family at Bloomsbury. But uponI! his recovery I found that I was slighted,'ll no doubt through remorse of con¬science. Yet he sent me a letter with} a bank note of fifty pounds, promising1 he would take care of my little boy,i butwantingto^etthe other fifty pounds: of him, I signed a general release, whichj put art end to this affair.But it was not long before it was my3 fortune to get an acquaintance with a: clerk belonging to the bank, whosen wife having made him a cuckold bykeeping company with an officer of the; army,'and after that with an apprenticebelonging to a Draper. I had like to] have become his bride, promising onS' that-account to get -a divorce from hisI other wife.But whilst this was doing, goingdown into Lancashire, and being ima¬gined to be a fortune of fifteen thou¬sand pounds, I was married to an Irishgentleman, by a Romish Clergyman ;but he finding that I hadnosucheftetts.as I like a false woman had represented; unto him, nor he any estate more than10what he spent in his equipage ircourting me.He therefore lent me as much moneyjlas would bear my charges up to Lon-lidon, discharged me from the marriage;left a letter for me upon the table, and iwent away the next morning. Butliafter he had discharged his servants hoireturned at night to my joy, and ac4companied <ne as far as to DtniStableJwhere we afterward parted after mu¬tual instruction had passed for our fu¬ture course of life.At London I lodged at an old mid¬wife’s, as being big with child, where:(as I had given directions)a letter wassentto eoutcf Lancashiie; which hadbeen directed there by the clerk of thebank ; who told me he had obtained adecreetagainsthis wife.andhe wasat myservice. * returnedanimmediateanswerunder a cover that I would be in townthe latter end of the yeai. And indeedafter having opened the matter to themidwife, and being delivered of a lineboy, which, with much difficulty, Iallowed her to. dispose oft I went ;or " ‘ * V ' ' H11! Stone in Lancashire, and so takingi coach, writ a letter to my clerk to meet5rlnrl4me at Brickhill; there is a short timehe prevailed with me to marry him*The next day from the window of theinn, I beheld my Lancashire husbandwith two others pass by ! when soonafter they were all three pursued ashighwaymen; but returning safely withmy husband to town, I lived with himexceeding happy for the space of fiveyears, by wnom I had two children.Afterwars I rewarded my midwife forher fidelity to me. But my husbaiiu sclerk robbing him, it flung hi n intosuch a grief, that it immediately ended12his life, which entirely destroyed allmy happiness.Soon after this being reduced to very’great extremity, I was tempted to steala Small bundle out of an apothecary’sshop in Leadenhall street, in which Ifound a suit of child-bedlinen,finelacea silver mug andspoons/threeshillings,and other matters. The next thingwhich I did, I inveigled a little childaway, from whom I took its gold neck¬lace, but though I had it in a privateplace, I would not kill or hurt it andput it in the way home again. - Ano¬ther time I took out of a shop atvStephney,tworin;gs,’onea diamond ringand the othor a plain one : and as Iwas once in Lombard-street, a thiefbeing pursued, dropped a piece of Silkwhich 1 made off with, aad afterwardsdisposed of to good advantage, andnot as thieves commonly dofbrasong.Another time i stole a silver tankardout of an alehouse, which I afterwardssold to a pawn-broker, who greatlyeneourrged me in such things. Sheshortly afterwards helped me to amistress, who made me more expert inthe thieving art 4 but not more form-13mate: tot first she herself, with anotherof her scholars, were apprehended,andcommitted to Newgate^for Stealing twopieces of cambric from a linen-draperin Cheapside. Both of them were con¬demned to die, but only our scholarI was executed ; for the other came offwith what they call a circuit pardon. from the judge.1 cannot but reflect upon one crimeI did in takingfromithehandsof a gen-3 tie woman, a bundle of plate when herd house was on hre, and conveying it-'ill to my own house, and so very fortunatewas I in escaping, that 1 became ex-'ceecling remarkable among the thievesfor none was great as Moll Flanders ;but at length being threatned to beimpeached by some in Newgate, (cloth¬ed myself in a man’s habit though asmoothface(otherwise personal and tallenough) might scon have betrayejf me.W ho being discovered as he was steal¬ing some goods was taken, and I hap¬pily escaped: I had somethingafrerthis,the happiness of seeing him hanged.14My name was as well known at theOld Baily, as a remarkable traitor is atthe secretary’s office. But being nowan excellent pick-pocket, as well as astrumpet, I took from a cull after I hadmade him drunk, his gold watch, withhis silk purse of gold, fine perriwig,sword and snuff-box: and leaping outof the coach (which stood still to letanother coach pass by) I left my fool tomourn his disaster. This success mademe follow the whoring again, but find¬ing the profit of it too small to sup¬port me, I returned again to the oldtrade of shop-lifting.r .1 .And one time as I was going alongthestrtetthrough Covent-Garden, therewas a cry of stop thief, stop thief ; amercer’s shop having been robbed, andI secured as the transgressor, and mosthaughtily insulted by the mercer andhis servants. In a little time they gotthe right thief, who was much in thesame habit as mine. ButforthisaffrontI got an hundred and fifty pounds; sothat all this, wi h my other substance,,might have maintain’d me, but I hav-15ing got an itch of thieving, could inno manner leave it off.I had an opportunity of commencinga coiner, but that was such a beggarlyand yet so dangerous a business that Iwould never embark in it. Nor couldI ever yet be brought into the society of! house-breakers. No person could bemoredexrrousin stealing gold watchesthan I from the ladies’ sides, either atthe park, playhouse, or at church Iwas also very dextrous in gaming, ande at one time cleared 73 guineas. Theuncommon success I had, made me goI into the country, where at Cambridge,Sturbndge fair, and at New Market, Iexpertly performed the same pranksover again j and at Ips witch I rob’d aDutchman of a portmanteau, by pre¬tending to be his wife in an inn, andin which was a very large quantity ofgold and silver.But afterwards coming up to Londonand venturing boldly into a fine silver¬smith’s shop, while none were theie, Iwas perceived by a shop-keeper overthe way : but as I had a glance of him16so I meddled with nothing,andajusticeof the peace coming by, being called,cleared me with flying colours.Another time, going into a semp¬stress’ shop in Cheapside, and cheapen¬ing half a dozen of very good hollandshifts, I doubted the length of them ;upon which the sempstress slipt one ofthe smocks uponher,whichgavemetheadvantage to pin it with two or threepis.s to her petticoat, and taking up therest with other pieces of muslin, ran a-way out of the shop. The sempstressendeavouring then to pull off hersmock, -pulled up her clouts, and run¬ning after, cryed, Stop t;hief, stop thief,;with all she had exposed to the publicwho taking her for a mad woman,Igot:\ clear cff with my booty, and the semp¬stress was bantered to her dying day,besides losing to the value of fifty'pounds worth of muslin.But after happening to steal somebrocaded silk from a mercer’s shop, Iwas apprehended, and being carriedljibefore a justice, wascommittedtoNew-|gate, the place of my nativity, where hiiii\1is impossible ior me to express the hor-■ rors of a disconsolate mind.I Here the wretches triumphed overme. Whar, said they, is Mrs. Flanderscome to Newgate, what, Mrs. Mary,: and after plain Moll Flanders. But Iwas forced to content myself with thisI piece of Newgate poetry,If I swing by this string,X shall hear the bell* ring,Herelgot into blessed acquaintance,jwhosecompanysoon made me as hard-; ened as themselves ; and where to my£ amazement, 1 beheld among them nayformerLancashirehusbajnd,and whosemisfortunesheplaceduponmy account.;!Here my old tutoress had done whatIjshe could tor me to make upthematteriijwith my prosecutors ; for she endea¬voured, tho’ to no purpose, to hinderlithe jurv from finding the bill of indict-.nment against me. At the sessions I hadl:pleaded not guilty, but was found.And there’s an end of poor Moll..*St. Sepulchre’s.18guilty of felony, and so received sen¬tence of death accordingly.So concerned was my poor gover¬ness that having repented herself of allher sins, she sent me a minister also,who represented to me these four im¬portant truths, death, judgement, hea¬ven and hell. When the dead warrantcame down, he visited me as befote ;the next day I heard the dismal toll ofSt Sepulchre’s bell, and then was in-191 formed of my reprieve, the unexpectedlj joy made me immediately fall into a. I terrible swoon.After this I w^s put on board in orderI for transportation with several othervictims, as they called us, where weI endured great hardships, as the firstnight lying upon the bare boards, butafterwards were allowed the liberty oflittlecabiUs if we had any clothes to layinthem. Thatnightthe ship fell down> ' , -IHI •,v , • .m .;ms >Iintoaplace vhich they call busty Hole,from v* hence I sent a letter bv the boat¬swain, who came on shore, to my go-20emess,andto my poor Lancashire hus¬band. The next day my governess sentme a sea bed and a chestmone draw¬er of which, was my money ; and gaveme an answer to that which I.sent tomy husband, who hoped tho’ he couldnot go with, me in the same sbip,yettosee me in. Virginia, b.utbyintercession,,he was afterwards putonboardwithus,where my money furnished us withgood accomadation. So we took like¬wise several materials with us fpr thework of planting: andso wesailedfromthe Downs the 13th ofApril,andarriv-ed safe! yon the -coast of Virginia, whereI soon perceived my own son and mybrother his father whom I had madenay husband, twenty yeajrs'ago* but mymother had been dead; some time before-having left a considerable plantationto me- and my heirs*Many were the ways I pondered onto get from the sight .of my family inthese wretched circumstances ; since f 8could not bear the sight of my child,,my brother and husband, who lived ||ryear that place I had taken for my set- |tiernent j and upon this very account; 121we moved with all oureffectsintoMary¬land- after a long and unpleasant voy¬age, where[weboughtustwoservants,anEnglishwoman and a Negro manj theni piece of ground of fifty acres&builta decent house thereon. And indeed,our affairs went on very prosperouslyso that we looked upon one anotherwith pleasure ; and then I obtained myhusband’s consent to go to Virginia &to discover my selftomy brother. When[ landed I writ a letter to him, tellinghim of several particular affairs, whichdettercame into his son’shand,whoask;-4ng the messenger where the gentle-M woman was that wrote it, he came tome,i (which was about seven miles off, atten-i ided by two servants on horseback, and^coming to me, kissed me, saying, dearnmother are you alive ? and then he fellto weeping.He told me that his father was quitesuperanuated,and beside himself, whichm made him conceal the letter from him,llthat the plantation which my motheril had left me, was in his possession ; soiiil forthe produce of it he gave ahundredpounds, engaging to be my trusteeand faithful steward. Indeed in all his22actions he proved a most dutiful child,allotting servants to wait upon me, andtreating me with as great splendor as ifI had been a sovereign princess. Ipresented him with a gold watch, and [taking my leave of him, after I hadacquaintedhimthatl intendedto marrya gentleman who came over with me,Isetsailina sloop my son had provided,and came safe to my own plantationsagain, bringing over with me threesaddles, some hogs, two cows, and agreat many other things.When I had related all this verygood fortune to my hv.sband, he liftedup his hands in an extacy of joy, andgave thanks to heave# for this suddenand so happy a change. Soon afterthis, arrived a cargo from England,which my governess had sent me,with three women servants; whichmade my husband amazed, especiallywhen I assured him that they werepaid ?or. How, says he, was I deceiv¬ed when I married a wife in LancashireI think I married a forfune, and a goodfortune too.23I had taken care to buy those thingsi for'myhusband, which I knew he tooka delight to wear ; as two good longi'wigs,two silver hiked swords three orfour side fowling pieces a fine saddlewithholstersandpistolsvery handsomewith a scarlet cloak; and in one wordevery thing I could think on thatmight possibly oblige him and to makehim appear (as he really was) a veryfine gentleman, I must not omit in¬forming my readers that one of thewenchesmylgovernesshad sent he hap¬pened to come double, having been gotwith shild by one of the seamen in thei’fhip, as she owned afterwards, beforethe ship got as far as Gravesend : sor.he brought us a fine boy about sevenmonths after our landing.< * ,After my brother’s^r former hus-oand’s) death, my son visited us whereI my dear husband made him most ex¬ceeding welcom'e ; and truly no personcould be blessed with a more dutiful{::hild. In this happy manner we livedi or the space of 20 years, resolving to>:pend the remainder of our days in asincere penitence for our wicked livesive had lived. And this we shall do24by our extensive charity, and liberalhospitality to all men.Thus far we have given an account ofMoll Flanders ; To which shall addthat we have an account from Virginiathat she died lately, having preparedfor that change, with the greatest pietyand devotion. And as she perceivedher disolution to draw near, she be¬queathed several legacies for charitableuses: and dying her funeral was perfor¬med with great solemnity, being inter¬red in St. Mary’s church in Virginia*FINIS.