MOTHER GOOSE’SFairy Tales.I. Little Red Riding Hood.II Blue Beard.III. Cinderilla; or, the Little GlafsSlipper.IV. Mafter Cat; or, Pufs in Boots.V. The Fairy.Here M iher Goofe in Winter Nights,The old and young fne both delights*PAISLEY:Printed by J. Neiwok.11.JFAIRY TALES.TALE I.'Link Led Riding Hold.ONCE upon a time,. t!iere lived in a certainvillage, a little cotic'cry girl, the prettidlcreature ever was fceu. Her mother was excef-iively found of Ler; and her grandmother doatedoa her much more. This good woman got madefor her a red little riding hood, which became thegirl fo extremely well, that every body called herLITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.One day, her mother having made fome cuf-tards, faid to her, ‘t Go, my dear, and fee how thygrand mamma does, for I hear die has been veryill. Carry her a-cudard and this little pot of butter.”Little Red Riding Hood lets out immediately togo to her grandmother, who lived in another vil¬lage. As llte was going through the wood, fhemet with Gaffer Wolf, who had a great mind toeat her up, but he durft not, becaufe of fome fag¬got-makers hard by in the foreft. He alkcd her,whither fhe was going ?■ The poor child, who didnot know that it was dangerous to flay, and heara wolf talk, faid, “ I am going to fee my grand¬mamma, and carry her a cullard, and a little potof butter from my mamma.” “ Does /lie live faroff:1” faid the wolf. “ O! ay,” auLvered LittleRed Riding Hood, “ it is beyond that mill you feethere, at the firff hoefe in the village.” “ Well”faid the wolf, “ and I’ll go and fee her too ; I II gothis way, and go you that, and we fhall fee whowill be there fooneft.”The wolf began to run as fail as he could, tak¬ing the neared way, and the little girl went by thatfarthed about, diverting herfelf in gathering nuts,running after butterflies, and making nofe-gays,fuch little flowers as fhe met with. The wqff"was -not long before he got to the old woman’shoufe : He knocked at the door, tap, tap/ “ Who’s■ there r” “ Your grandchild, Little Red Ridi/igHood (replied the Wolf, counterfeiting her voice)who has brought you a tuflard, and a little pot ofbutter fent you by my mamiha.”The good grandmother, who was in bed, be-cjufe {he found herfelf fomewhat ill, cried out,“ Pull the bobin, 't.ad the latch will go up.” Thewolf pulled the bobin, and the door opened, andthen prefently he fell upon the good woman, andeat her up in a moment ; for it was three days thathe had not touched a bit. He then fhut the dear,•and went into the grandmother’s bed, expectingLittle Red Riding Hood, who came fometim.e af¬terward, and knocked at the door, tap, tap, “ Who’sthere ?” Little Red Riding Hood, hearing thebig voice of the wolf, was at Srtt afraid ; but be¬lieving her grandmother read got a cold, and wasitoarfe, anfwered, - * Pis your grandchild, LittleRed Riding Hood, who has brought you a cuftardU- little pot of butter, mamma fends you.”1 he wolf c.ied out to her. foftening his voice asmuch as he could, “ Pull the bobin, and the latch-will go up ” Little Red Riding Hood pulled theTobin and the door opened. The wolf feeing hercome in, faid to her, hiding himfelf under the bed¬clothes, “ Put the cuftard and pot of butter upcathe ftool, and come ana lie down by me ” LittleRed Riding ‘’nod undrtfled fceifelf, and went in¬to bed ; where b ung j ready amaied to fee hergrandmother in her night clothes, faid to her,“ rand mamma, what great arms you have got !’*Thai is the better to hug thee, my dear. Grand-m ma. v. hat fcrfat legs you have got That is to* • • hetic.r. my cl"ld. Grandmamma, what' : 1 ’ ■■ ■« cav got That is to heat the bet-■ * ' ft* Lraurimammaj what great eyes4Fairy Tales,you have got! It is to fee the better, my child.Grand-mamma, what great teeth you have got!That is to eat thee up.” And faying thefe words,this wicked wolf fell upon poor Little Red RidingHood, and eat her-all up.TALE II.BLUE BEARD.There was a mac who had fine houfes, bothin town and country, a deal of filver andgold plate, embroidered furniture and coaches,gilded all over with gold. But this man had themisfortune to have a blue beard, which made himu? frightfully ugly, that all the women and girlsran awaj1 from him.One of his neighbours, a lady of quality, hadtwo daughters who were perfect beauties. Hedefired of her one of them xil marriage, leaving toher the choice which of the two file would beftowupon him. They would neither of them havehim, and fent him backwards and forwards fromone to another, being not able to bear the thoughtsof marrying a man who had a blue beard. And■what befides gave them difguft and averfion, was,his having already been married to feveral wives,and nobody ever knew what became of them.Blue Beard, to engage their affe&ion, took them,with the lady, their mother, and three or four la¬dies of their acquaintance, with other young peo¬ple of the neighbourhood, to one of his countryfeats, where they ftaid a whole week. There wasnothing then to be feen but parties of pleafure,hunting, fifiung, dancing, mirth, and feafting. No.body went to bed, but all palfed the night in rally¬ing and joking with each other : In fhort, everything fo well fucceeded, that the youngeft daugh¬ter began to think that the mafter of the houfe’sFairy Taler*beard was not fo Terjr blue, and that he wa* %mighty civil gentleman.So foon as they returned home, the marriagewas concluded. About a month afterwards, BlueBeard told his wife, that he was obliged to take acountry journey for fix weeks at leaft, about affairsof very great confequence, defiring her to divertherfelf in his abfence, fend for her friends and ac¬quaintance, carry them into the country, if (hepleafed, and make good cheer wherever the was:“ Here, faid he, are the keys of the two greatwardrobes, wherein 1 have my belt furniture ? Thefcare of my filver and my gold plate, which is notevery day in ufe ; thcfe open my ftrong bores,which hold my money , both gold and filver; thefemy cafkets of jewels; and this is the mafter key ofall my apartments: But for this little one here, itis the key of the clofet at the end of the great gal¬lery, on the ground floor. Open them all; go in¬to every one except that little clofet, which I for¬bid you, and forbid it in iuch a manner, that ifyou open it, there is nothing but what you mayexpect from my juft anger and refentment.” Shepromifcd to oblerve very exactly what he had or¬dered ; when he, after having embraced her, gotinto his coach, and proceeded on his journey.Her neighbours and good friends did not ftay tobe fent for by the new married lauy, fo great wastheir impatience to fee all the rich furniture of herhoufe, not daring to come while her hufband wasthere, becaufe of his blue beard which frightenedthem. They ran through all the rooms, clofets,and wardrobes, which were all fo rich and fine, thatthey feemed to furpafs one another. Aftef thatthey went up into the two great rooms, where werethe beft and richeft furniture. They could not fuf-ficiently admire the number and beauty of the ta-peftry beds, couches, cabinets, (lands, tables, and6 Fairy Tales.looking glaffes, in which you might iee yourfelf,from head to foot, fome of them were framed withglafs, others with filver, plain and gilded, the fineftand moft magnificent were ever feen They ceaf-cd not to extol and envy the happinefs of theirfriend, who in the meantime, no way divertedherfelf in looking upon thefe rich things, becaufeof the impatience fhe had to go and open the clo-fet of the ground floor She was fo much prei-fed by her curiofuy, that without confidering thetinciviliiy of leaving .her company, file went downn little back flair cafe, and with fuch exceflive hafle,that-fhe had twice or thiice, like to have broke hertieck.Being come to the clofet door, flic made a flopfor feme time, thinking upon her hufband’s ordeis,and confidering what vinhappinefs might, attendher, if fhe difobeyed ; but the temptation was foilrong, (he could not overcome it : She took thenthe little key, and opened it trembling: But couldnot at firft fee any thing plainly, becaufe the win¬dows were (hut. In fome moments file began toperceive that the floor was all covered with.clottedblood, on which lay the bodies of feveral deanwomen ranged againfl the walls: (Thtfe were allthe wives whom Blue Beard had married and mur¬dered one after another.) She thought fhe wouldhave died for fear: Ai;d the key which fhe pulledout of the lock, fell out of her hand.After having fbmewhat recovered her furpnfe,fhe took up the key, locked the door, and went Upflairs to recover herfelf; but (lie could not, fo muchwas fhe frightened. Having obferved that the keyof the clofet was flained \Vith blood, fhe tr:ed twoor three times to wipe it off, but the blood: wouldnot come out; in vaip did fine wafii it, and evenrub it with foap and fand, the blood full remained,'for this key was a Fairy, and (he could never-mgjtf.n quite cJean ; when the blood wag gone off fromone fide it came again on the other.Blue Beard returned from his journey the fameevening, and faid, “ he had received letters uponthe road, informing him, that the affair he wentabout was ended to his advantage.” His wife didall (he could to convince him foe was extremelyglad of his fpeedy return. Next morning he aflc-ed far the keys, which fire gave him, but with fucha trembling hand, that he eafily gueffed whathad happened. “ What, faid he, is not the key“ of my clofet among the left?” “ I muff cer-•“ tainlyj anfwered fhe, have left it upon the ta-“ ble ” “ Fail not, faid Blue Beard, to bring it■“ me prefently ”After feveral goings backwards and forwards,fhe was Forced to bring him the key. Blue Beard,having very attentively confidered it, faid to hiswife, “ How comes this blood upon the key r’T“ I do not know,” cried the poor woman, palerthan death. “ You do know, replied Blue Beard,I very well know, you was refoived to go into theclofet, was you not? Mighty well, Madam; youfinall go in, and take your place among the ladiesyou faw there.”Upon this die, threw kerfelf at her hufband’efeet, and begged his pardon, with all the figns ofa true repentance, and that (he fhould ne^er morebe difobedient. She would have melted a rock, fobeautiful and forrowful was fire, but Blue Beardhad a heart harder than any rocks “ You mult dje,madam, faid he, and that prefently.” “ Since Imull die, anfwered (lie, (looking on him with hereyes all bathed in tears) give me fomc little timeto fay my prayers.” “ I give, leplied Blue Beard,half a quarter of an hour, but not one momentMonger.”When flie was alone, (he called out to her lifterfFairy Talet,aad faid to her, “Sifter Anne, (for that was hername'.)’ go up, I beg yon, upon the tower, and lookif my brothers are not coming : They promifed methat they would come to-day, and if you fee themgive them a fign to make bafte.” Her fifter Annewent up upon the top of the tower, and the poorafflicted wife, called from time to time, “ Anne,fifter Anne, do you fee any one coming?” and Af¬ter Anne faid, “ 1 fee nothing but the fun, whichmakes a dull, and the grafs which looks green.”In the mean while. Blue Beard, holding a greatfeymitar in his hand, cried ou^ as loud as he could,“ Come down inftantly, or I fhall come up to you.”45 One moment longer, if you pleafe,” faid his wife,and then ftie cried out very foftly, “ Anne, fifterAnne, doft thou fee any body coming and fifterAnne anfwered, “ I fee nothing but the fun, whichmakes a dull, and the grafs looking green.” “ Comedown quickly,” cried Blue Beard, “ or I will comeup to you.” 45 I am coming,” anfwered his wife, andthen Ihe cried, 44 Anne, fifter Anne- doft thou feeany one coming ;” “ I fee, replied her fifter Anne,a great dull which comes from this fide here ” 44 Arethey my brothers ?” 44 Alas no, my fifter, I fee aflock of Iheep.” 44 Will you not come down,” criedBlue Beard. 44 One moment longer,” faid his wife,and then file cried out, 44 Anne, fifter Anne, dollthou fee nobody coming.'” 44 I fee two horfemeucoming, but they are yet a great way off” 44 Godbe praifed,” replied the poor wife joyfully, 44 theyare my brothers ; I am making them a fign as wellas I can, for them to make hafte ” Then BlueBeard bawled out fo loud, that he made the wholehoufe tremble (The diftreffed wife came down and threw herfelfat his feet all in tears, with her hair all about herfhoulders. 44 This 'dignifies nothing, faid BlueBeard, you mull die.” Then taking hold of her9Fairy Tales.hair with one hand, and lifting up his fcymitarwith the other, he was going to take off her head.The poor gentlewoman turning about to him, andlooking at him with longing eyes, dehred him toafford her one little moment to recollect herfelf.“ No, no, faid he, recommend thyfeif to God,” andwas juft ready to ilrik*——— At this very inftant there was fuch a loudknocking at the gate, that Blue Beard made a hid¬den flop. The gate was opened, and prefentlyentered two horfemen, who drawing their fwords,ran directly to Blue Beard. He knew them to behis wife’s brothers, one a' dragoon, the other amufqiieteer, fo that he ran away immediately tofave himfelf; but the two brothers .purfiied fo clofethat they overtook him before he could get to thefteps of the porch, when they ran their fwordsthrough his Body, and left him dead.The poor wife was almoft as dead as her huf-liahdi and had not ftrength enough to rife and wel<come her brothers. Blue Beard had no heirs, andfo his wife became miftrefs of all his eftate. Shemade ufe of one part of it to marry her filler Anneto a young gentelman who had courted her a longwhile ; another part to buy captains commiffionsfor her brothers, and the reft to marry herfelf to avery worthy gentleman, who made her forget theill time Ihe had paffed with Blue Beard.TALE II LCinder ilia : or the Little Glafs Slipper.HERE was a gentleman who married for hisfecond wife, the proudeft and mail haughtywoman ever feen. She had by a former hulbandtwo daughters of her own, that were indeed exa6t«ly like her in all things. He had likewife, by ano¬ther wife, a young daughter, but of unparalleledio Fairy Tales.*goodncfs of temper, which (he took 'from her mo¬ther, v ho vv.n the beft creature in the world.No fooner were the ceremonies of the* wedding,ever, than the mother-in-law began to (how her-felf in her colours She could not bear the goodqualities of this prety girl; and the Icfs becaufethey made her own daughters appear tile more o-dlom. She employed her in the meaneii work inthe hotife; (he fcoured the diihes, tables, Sec. andnibbed madam’s chamber, and thofe of the miiTesher daughters ; (lie lay up in a forry garret, upona wretched draw-bed, while her filters lay in finerooms, with floors ait in-laid, cpoc beds of thevery newed fafliions, and where they had looking-glaffts fo large, that they might fee themfelves attheir full length, from head to foot. The poor girlbore all patiently, and dare! not to tell her father,who would have rattled her off, for his wife go¬verned him entirely. When fire had done her work,ihe went into the' chimney corner, and fat downamong the cinders and afhes, which made her com¬monly be called Cinder-breech, but the youngelt,who was not fo rude and uncivil as the ddeft, cal¬led her Cinderilla. However, Cinderilla, notwith¬standing her mean apparel, was an hundred timeshandfomer than her fiflers, though they were al¬ways drefled very richly.It happened that the fciug's fun gave a hail, andinvited ail perfuns of fafhion to it : Our youngmines were aifo iuvited ; for they cut a very grandfigure among the quality. 'I hey were mightilydelighted at this invita tion, and wonderfully bufyin chilling out fucii gowns, petticoats, and headclothes as might bed become them 1 his was anew trouble to Cinderilla; for it was fhe whoironed her fillers’ linen, and plaited their ruffles ;they talked ail day long of nothing but how theyihould be dreffed. “ For my part, faid the ddeiUuFairy Ta!;r.I ’.rear vr.y red re'ket fuit, with French trim¬ming.” “ And I, faid ihe youngelt, fhall onlyhave my ufnsl pettiepr.t. but then to make amendsfor that, l will nut on my gold dowered mantaa,and my diamond fiom^cher, wbich is far from be¬ing the rrcll ordinary one ;n the world.”.They lentfor the bell tire-woman they could get, to make uptheir head-tiitffes,-and" adjuft their double pinners,and they had their red brudw-s and'patches fromMadamoiftile de la Pcche.Cinderilla was lit "wife csUed np to them to beconfultcd in all rhofe matters, for fhe had excellentB'otionr., and advifed them always for the belt ; nay,and offered ter fei vice to drefs their heads, which,they willingly accepted. As fhe was doing this,they fnid to her, Cinderiik, would you not be gladto go to the hall ? Ah ! faid fhe, yctl only jeer me,it is not for fneh-os I am to go thither. Thou art•d the right of it, replied they ; it would make thepeople laugh to fee a Cinder breech at a bail. Any¬one but Cinderilla would have drilled their headsawry : but ‘he was good, and dreffed them perfect¬ly well. They were a'molf two devs without cat-•ng, being, jo much t^nlported with joy. Theybroke above a dozen of laces, in trying to he la-eed up clof.'j that they might lialve a fine (lenderfliape, and they were continually at their louking-glais. At lad the happy day came, they went tocourt, and Ciuderiila looked after them as long asfhe could, and when Hie loll fight of them, fhefell a cryingHer grandmother, who fa-.v her all in tears, a He¬ed her what was the matter ? 1 wifh I could—I wifliI con—Id ; (he was notable to (peak the reft, beinginterrupted by her tears and fobbing. Her god¬mother, who was a Fairy, faid to her, Thou wifheflthou could'd go to the ball: is it not fo ? Y—cs,ovied Cinderilla, with a great Irghy Well, feid her11Fairy Tales,godmother, be but a good girl, and I will contrivethat you lhall go. Then /Ire took her into her cham¬ber, and laid to her, run into the garden, and bring'xce a pompion. Cinderilla went immediately togather the fine/l /he could get, and brought it toher godmother, not being able to imagina how thispompion could make her go to the ball. Tier god-rnother /cooped out all the infide of it, having leftnothing but the rind, which done, fire ftruck itwith her wand, and the pompion was inilantlyturned into a fine coach gilded all over with gold.She then went and look’d into the moufe-trap,where fire found fix mice all alive, and ordered .Cindenlla to lift up a little the trap-door, whengiving each nioufe as it went out <i little tap withher wand, the moufe was that moment turned in¬to a fair horfe, which altogether made a very finefet of fix horfes, of a beautful meufe-coloured,dapple grey. Being at a lofe for a coachman, “ 1will go and fee, fays Cinderilla, if there be nevera rat in the rat-trap, we may make a coachman ofhim.” “ Thou art in the right, replied her god¬mother, go and look.” Cinderiila brought the trapto her, and in it there were three huge rats. TheFairy made choice of one of the three which hadthe largeft beard, and having touched him with herwand, he was turned into a fat jolly coachman, whohad the /marteft whi/kers and eyes ever beheld.After that, /he faid to her. Go again into thegarden, and you will find fix lizards behind thewatering pot; bring them to me. She had nofooner done fo, but her godmother turned theminto fix footmen, who /kipped up immediately be¬hind’the coach, with their liveries all bedaubedwith gold and /liver, and clung as clofe behindeach other, as if they had done nothing elfe theirwhole lives. The Fairy then /aid to Cinderilla,well, you fee here an eguippage, fit to go to theFairy Tabs. 13ball with : are you pkafed with it ? O yes, criedlire, but muft I go thither as I am, in thefe poi-fonous nalty rags ? Her godmother only touchedher with her wand, and at the fame inftant, herclothes were turned into cloth of gold and lilver,all befet with jewels. This done, Are gave her a pairof glafs flippers, the prettieft in the whole world.Being thus decked out, fhe up into her coach ;but her godmother, above all things commandedher not to flay till after midnight, telling her at thofame time, that if fhe ftayed at the ball one mo¬ment longer, her coach would be a pompion again,ber horfes mice, her coachman a rat, her footmenlizards, and her clothes become juft as they werebefore. She promifed her godmother, fhe wouldnot fail of leaving the ’Mil before midnight, andthen away fhe drives, fcarce able to contain her-felf for joy. The king’s fon, who was told, that a' great princefs, whom nobody knew, was come,ran out to receive her, he gave her his hand as fhealighted out of the coach, and led her into the hallamong all the company. There was immediatelya profound fdence, they left off dancing, and themufic ceafed to play, fo attentive .was every one tocontemplate the beauties of this new comer. No¬thing was then heard but confufed noife of, Ha !how handfome fhe is ‘ Ua ! how handfome {he is >The king himfelf, old as he was, could not helpOgling her, and telling the queen foftly, that it wasa long time fince he had feen fo beautiful andlovely a creature. All the ladies were bufied inconfidering her clothes and head drefs, that theymight have Tome made the next day after the famepattern, providing they could meet with fo finematerials, and as able hands to make themThe king’s fon conducted her to the moft ho¬nourable feat, and afterwards took her out to dancewith him : She danced fokvery gracefully, that theyall mere and more -admired her. A fine collatie i'waaferved up, whereof the young prince eat neta morfel, fo intently was he bufied in gazing on her.She went and fat down by her filters* (hewing thema theufand civilities, giving them part of the oran¬ges and citrons which the prince had prefentedher with : Which very much furprizrd them, for-they dici not know her. While Cinderilla was thusamufing her lifters, (he heard the clock ftrike elevenand-three quarters, whereupon (he immediately madea courtefy to the company* and hafted away as faft-as /lie could.Being got home, (he ran to feck out her godmo-’thrr, and after having thanked' her, fne faid, (tiecould rot but heartily wi(h (he might go next dayto the ball, becanfe the king’s fon had deft red her.As (lie was eagerly telling her godmother whateverhad palTe’d at the ball, her two fifters knocked atthe door, which Cinderilla ran and opened. Howlong you have ftaid, cried (he, gaping, rubbing hereyes, and (Letching herfelf, as if (he had juft a-waked put of her deep ; (he had hot, however, anymanner of injination to (leep.fince they went fromhome. “ If thou hadft been at the ball, fays one-of her fifters, thou vvouldd not have been tiredwith it ; there-came thither the fined princefs, the-mod beautiful ever was feen with mortal eyes, (he'(lievvcd us a thoufand civilities, and gave us orangesand citrons.” Cinderilla feemed very indifferent in.the matter, indeed (lie a iked the name cf that prin.-cefs; but they told her, “ they did not know it, andthat the king’s fon was uneafy on her account, and■would give all the world to know where (he was.”At this Cinderilla fmiling, replied, “ She muft be ■very beautiful indeed; O! how happy you hava-been; could I not fee her! Ah! dear Mifs Char¬lotte, do lend me your yellow fuit of clothes whichyou wear every da v.” “Ay* to be fare!” erica-Fairy Taics. ; 5Mils Charlotte, “ ldr«d nr/ clothes to fuch a' dirtyCinder breech os then art : who’s the fool then ?”CiHtlerii’ia indeed expected fome fnch anfwer, andwas ven' glad of the .refufat; for file would havebeen fadly put to it if her filter had lent her 'what(he nflfcd for jeilingly.The next day the two fillers were at the ball,and fo was Cinderilla, but drefled more magnifi¬cently than before. The king's fon-was always byher and never ce^ifed his compliments and amo¬rous fpeeches to her ; to whom all this was fo farfrom being tirefome, that Ihe quite forgot whather godmother had recommended to her, fo Ihe atlali counted the clock llriking twelve, when Ihctook it to be no more than eleven : fhc then rofe upand fled as nimble as a deer. The prince follow¬ed, but could not overtake her. She left 'behindher one of her glafs flippers, which the prince tookun moll carefully. She got home, but quite out ofbreath, without coach or foot man, and in the naflyold clothes, having nothing left of all her finery,but one of the little flippers, fellow to that Ihe drop¬ped. The guards at the palace gate were alked,If they had teen a yvnneefi* go out ? Who faid theyhad feen no body go out, but a young girl, verymeanly dreffed* who had more the air of a poorcountry wench, than a gentlewoman.When the two fillers returned from the ball,Cinderilla alked them, If they had been well di¬verted ; and if the fine lady und been there ? Theytold'her, Yes, but that (he Hurried away immedi¬ately when the clock flruck twelve, and with fomuch hafie that (he dropped one of her little glafsflippers, the prettiefl in the world, and which theking s fon had taken up ; that he had done nothingbut looked at her all the time of the ball, and thatmod .certainly he was very much in love with thebeautiful perfon that owed the little flipper.\i6Fairy Tala.What they faid was very true ; for a few daysrafter the king’s fon caufed it to be proclaimed byfound of trumpet, that he would marry her whofefoot this flipper would juft fit. They whom he em¬ployed began to try it upon the princefles, then theducheffes, and all the court, but in vain; it wasbrought to the two fifters, who did all they pofiiblycould to thruft their foot into the flipper, but theycould not effeft it. Cinderilla, who faw all this,and knew her flipper, faid to them laughing, letme fee if it will not fit me : Her fifters burft outa laughing, and began to banter her. The gen¬tleman who was fent to try the flippers, looked ear-neftly at Ciriderilla, and finding her very handfome,faid. It was but juft that flie fhould try, and that hehad orders to make every one make trial. He o--bliged Cinderilla to fit down, and putting the flip¬per to her foot, he found it went in very eafily,and fitted her as if it had'been made of wax. Theaftonifliment her two filters were in was ex'tefiivelygreat, but ftiil abundantly greater, when Cindcrillapulled out of her pocket the other flipper, and putit on her foot. Thereupon in came her godmother,who having touched, with her wand, Cinderilla’aclothes, made them richer, and more magnificentthan any of thofe Ihe had before.And now her two fifters found her to be thatfine beautiful lady whom they had feen at the ball.They threw themfelves at her feet, to beg pardonfor the ill-treatment they made her' undergo. Cin¬derilla took them up, and, as Ihe embraced, cried.That fire forgave them with all her heart, and de-fired them always to-love her. She was conduc¬ted to the young prince, drefied as flie was, hethought her more charming than ever, and a fewdays after married her. Cinderilla, who was nolefs good than beautiful, gave her two fifters lodg-Fairy Tales'.17tug la the palace, and matched them with tw*great lords of the court.TALE IV.The Mafter-Cat; or, - Pu/s in Boots.HERE was a miller, who left no more eflateto the three fons he had, than his mill, hisafs, and his cat. The partition was foon made, nei¬ther the fcrivener nor attorney were fent for. Theywould foon have eaten up all the patrimony. Theeldeft had the mill, the fecond the afs, and theyoungefl nothing but the Cat.The poor young fellow was quite comfoi tlefs athaving fo poor a lot. “My brothers,” faid he,“may get their living handfomely enough, byjoining their docks together, but for my part, whenI have eaten up my Cat, and made me a muff ofhis fkin, l mud die with hunger.” The Cat, wfioheard ail this* yet made as if he did not, faid tohim with a jgrave and ferious air. “ Do not thusafflict yourfelf, my good mader ; you have nothingclfe to do, but to give me a bag, and get a pair ofboots made for me, that I may Team per throughthe dirt and the brambles and you fliall fee thatyou have not fo bad a portion as you imagine.”Though the Cat’s mader did not build very muchupon what he faid, he had, however, often feenhim play a great many cunning tricks to catch ratsand mice; as when he ufed to hang by the heels,or hide himfelf in the meal, and make, as if he weredead ; fo that he did not altogether defpair cf hisaffording him fome help in his miferable condition.Whdn the Cat had what he afked for, he‘bootedhimfelf very gallantly; and putting the bag abouthis neck, held the drings of it in his two fore-paws,and went into a warren where was great abundanceof rabbits. He put bran and fow-thidles into thei8Fany Tales.bag, and ftretched hirr.felf out at length, as If hehad been dead, he waited for fome young rabbits,not yet acqulanted’with the deceits of the world, tocome and rummage hisbag for wbathehad put intoit.Scarce was he lain down, but he had what hewanted : a rafh and foohfh young rabbit, jumpedinto his bag, and Monlieur Pufs immedately draw¬ing clofe the ftr ings, took and killed him withoutpity. Proud of his prey, he went with it into tirepalace, and afked to {peak with his majefty. Piewas fhewed up flairs into the king's apartment,and making a low revertnrepaid to him, “ I havebrought you. Sir, a rabbit of the warren, whichmy nobleJord, the Marquis of Carabas, (tor thatv'as the title, which Pufs was p Ira fed to give Lismafter) has commanded me to prefent to your n,a-jelty, from him.” ‘'Tell thy mafler,” Laid theking, that L thank him, and he does me a greatdeal of pleafure ”Another time he went and hid himfelf among!?:fome {landing corn, holding flill his bag* open ;and when a brace of partridges ran into it, he drewthe finings, and fo caught them both. He wentand made a prefent of thefe to the king, as he haddone before of the sahhit which he took in the war¬ren. The king, in like manner received the par¬ti idges with gieat pleafure, and ordered him fememoiny to drink.The cat continued for two or three months, thusto carry his majefly from time to time, game of hismailer's taking. One day in particular, when heknew for certain the king was to take sdie air alongthe river fide, with his daughter, the moft beauti¬ful princcfs in the wot Id, he faid to his mailer,“ If you will follow my advice, your fortune ismade ; you have nothing elfe to do, but go andwafii yourfelhin the river in that patt I (hall fhewyou, and leave the red to inc.,J The Marquis oiFairy Tales. 19Carabas did what the Cat advlfed, without know¬ing why or wherefore.While he was walking, the king paffed by, andthe cat began to cry out as loud as he could, “Help,help, my Lord Marquis of Carabas is going to bedrowned.” At this noife the king put his head outof the coach-window, and finding it was the Catwho had fo often brought him fuch good game,he commanded the guaids to run immediately tothe alfillance of his lordship the marquis of C>1 abas. 1,While they were drawing the poor Marquis outc? the river, the Cat came up to the coach and toldthe king, that, while his mailer was walking, therecame by fome rogues who went off with his clothes,though he had cried out Thieves, thieves, feveraltimes, as loud as he could. 1 his cunning Cal hadhidden them under a great {tose. The king im¬mediately commanded the officers of his wardrobeto run and fetch one of his belt fails for the lordMarquis of Carabas.The king careSed him after a very extraordinarymanner, and as the fine clothes he had given him,extremely fet ofi his good mien, (for he was wellmade and very handfome in bis perfon) the king’s• daughter took a feevet inclination to him, and theMarquis of Carabas had no fooner call two or threerelpeetful and tender glances, but Ihe fell in lovewith him to diftraction. The king would have hintcome into his coach, and take a part of the airing.The Cat overjoyed to fee Lie project begin to fuc-ceed, marched on before, End meeting with fomecountrymen, who were mowing a meadow, he faidto them, “ Good people, if you do not tell theking, that the meadow you mow belongs to theMarquis of Caracas, you Iball be chopped as fnrall?s herbs for the pot.”The king did net fail Editing tke mowers to.120Fairy Tales,whom the meadow they were mowing belonged ?To ray Lord Marquis of Carabas,” anfweredthey altogether; for the Ca^s threats had madethem terribly afraid. “ You fee, Sir,” faid theMarquis, “ this is a meadow that never fails toyield a plentiful harveft every year.” The Cat,who went on ft ill before, met with fome reapers,and faid to them, “ Good people, you who arcreaping, if you do not tell the king, that all thiscorn belongs to the Marquis of Carabas, you fhallbe chopped as fmall as herbs for the pot.” Theking who pafled by a moment after, would needsknow to whom all that corn did belong ? “ To myLord Marquis of Carabas,replied the reapers;and the king was very well pleafed with it, as wellas the Marquis whom he congratulated thereupon.The mailer Cat went always before, faying thefame words to all he met ; and the king was ailo-nilhed at the vaft eft.Mes of my Lord Marquis ofCarabas- Moniieur Pufs came at laft to a ftatelycaftle, the mailer of which was an Ogre, the rich-eft that had ever been known ; for all the lands theking had then gone over, belonged to this caftle.The Cat having taken care to inform himfelf whothis Ogre was, and what he could do, alked tofpeak with him, faying, “ He could not pafs forear his caftle, without having the honour of pay¬ing his refpects to him.”The X)gre received him as civilly as an Ogrecould do, and made him fit down. “ I have beenaffured,” faid the Cat, that you have the gift ofbeing able to change yourfelf into all forts of crea¬tures you have a-mind to ; you can, for example,transform yourfelf into a lion or elephant, and thelike.” “ This is true, anfwered the Ogre, verybrifkly, and to convince you, you ftiall fee me nowbecome a lion. Pufs was fo fadly terrified at thefight of a lion fo near him, that he immediately21Fairy Tales.got into the gutter, not without abundance of trou¬ble and danger, becaufe of his boots, which wereof no ufe at all to him in walking upon the tiles.A little while after, when Pufs faw that the Ogrehad rtfumed his natural torm, he came down and• owned he had been very much frightened.“ 1 have been moreover informed,” faid the Cat,“ but I know not how to believe it, that you havealfo the power to take upon you the fmalleft ani¬mal ; for example, to change yourfelf into a rat ora moufe : but I mull own to you, I take this to beimpoffible.” “ Impoffible,” cried the Ogre, “ youfhall fee that prefcntly,” and at the fame time,changed himfelf into a moufe, and began to runabout the floor Pufs no fooner perceived this,but he fell upon him, and eat him up.Meanwhile the king, who faw as he pafled, thisfine caftle of the Ogre’s, had a mind to go into it.Pufs who heard the noife of his majefty’s coach,running over the draw-bridge, run out and faid tothe king, “ your majefty is welcome to this eaftleof my Lord marquis of Carabas ” “ Wnat! myLord Marquis ? cried the king : And does this caf-tel alfo belong to you ? There can be nothing finerthan this court, and all the ftately buildings whichfurround it, let us go into it if you pleafe.” Theking went up firll, the Marquis, handing the prin-cefs, following. They paffed into a fpacious hall,where they found a magnificent collation the Ogrehad prepared for his friends, who dared not enter,knowing the king was there. His majefty wasperfectly charmed with the good qualities of theMarquis, and his daughter was violently in lovewith him. The king, after having drank five or fi*glaffes, faid to him, “ My Lord Marquis, you willbe only to blame, if you are not my fon-in-law.”The marquis making feveral low bows, acceptedthe honour hie majefty conferred upon him, and2 2Fairy Tales.forthwith>• the very fame day, manicJ the prm-ccis.ihifs bccniF.e a great lord, and never ran aftermiee any more, but only for his diverliou.T ALE V.The Fairy.TTEI'E was, once upon a time, a widows_L who had two daughters. The ddeit was 1©much-like her in the face and humour, that who¬ever looked upos the daughter, law the mother.They were both fo difagreeahle and fo proud, thatthere was no living with them. The youngdt, whowas the very picture of her father for cour-tefy andfv/eetn.fs of temper, was alio one of the moltbeautiful girls ever feen. As people naturally lovetheir own likenefs, this mother, even doated onher eld ell daughter, and at the fame time, had ahorrible av'eritoo for tiie youngeil. She made hertat in the Kitchen, and woik continually.Among other things, this pcot child was Forcedtwice a-day, to draw water above a mile and a halfoff the ho’uft, and bring home -a pitcher full of it.One-day, as fie was at the fount's n, there ■cameto her a poor woman, who begged of her to lether drink “O ay, with di my burnt, Goody,”laid this pretty little girl, and vh-fr.g immediatelythe pitcher, fre took forne water from the cleatdtpart of the fountain, and gave it to her, holdingup the pitcher all the wh.le, that flis might drinkthe eafer.The good woman having drank, faid to her,“ You are fo very pretty, my dear, fo good, andfo mannerly, that 1 cannot help giving you a gift,(for this was a Fairy, who had taken the form ofa poor country woia^n, to fee h»w far the civilityFairy Tales. £ 1rand.good Rianeers of this pretty girl would go.)I will give you for gift, (continiied the 1'd.i:y)that at every word you fpe&k, rireiv. Ciall conic out. of your mauth either a flower or a j :\veiWhen, this pretty girl came home, her motherfcolded at her for itaying fo long at the fountain.%e 1 beg your v-aracn, mamma, ford the poor,girl,for not making more halite ;’5 and in fpeaking thefowords, there came out of her mouth two tofes,two pearls, and two diamond^. \Vhat is it 1 foe-there ? fa id her-mother quite afloni/hed, 1 think Efee pearls and diamonds come out. of the girl’smouth ? how happy is this child ? .Tail, was thefirft time ever ftie called her child.The poor creature told her frankly all the mat¬ter, nat without dropping out infinite numbers ofdiamonds. “ In good faith, cried the mother, Imull fend my child thither. Come hither, Fanny,look what comes out of thy filler’s mouth, whenfhe fpeajcs ? Vvfouldfl; thou not be glad, my dear,to have the fame gift given unto thee ? TluAr hallnothing dfc to do but go and draw water out ofthe fountain, and when a certain poor woman a Iksyou to let her drink, to give it to.her very civilly.It would be a very flue light indeed, faid this ill-bred minx, to fee me go dVrw water. You (hall go,huffy, faid.the mother, and this minute. So awayfl-.e went, but grumbling all the way, taking with.her the bell fllver tankard in the houfe,She was no fooner at the fountain, than die fawcoming out of the wood, a lady moll gloriouflydteffed, wflo came up to her, and afked to drink.This was, you mull know, the very Fairy who ap¬peared to her filter, but had now taken the air anddrefs of a princcfs, to tee how far this girl’s rude-nefs would go. 'l Am l come hither, faid the proudfancy Hut, io ferve you with water, pray ? I flrp-j pole the fllver tankard was brought purely for yourA• ' I!“4Fairy Talcs.ladyfhip ; was it ? However, you may d:ink of itif you have a fancy '*“ You are not over and above mannerly,” an-fwercd the fairy, without putting herfelf into apaffion ; “ Well then, fince you have fo little breed¬ing, and are fo very difobliging, I give you for gift,that at every word you fpeak, there lhall come outof your mouth a fnake or a toad.” So foon as hermother faw her coming, (lie cried out, “ Welldaughter ”—“ Well, mother,” anfwered the perthuffy, throwing out of her mouth two vipers andtwo toads. “ 0 mercy !” cried the mother, “ whatis it I fee ? O, it is that wretch her filler, who hasoccafioned all this; but Ihe lhall pay for it;” andimmediately Ihe ran to beat her. The poor childfled away from her, and went to hide herfelf in theforeft not far from thence^—The king’s fon, thenon his return from hunting, met her, and feeingher very pretty, alked her, “ What Ihe did therealone, and why fhe cried ?” “ Alas, Sir, my mam¬ma has turned me out of doors.” The king’s fon,who faw five or fix pearls, and as many diamondsifcome out of her mouth, defired her to tell himhow that happened. She thereupon told him thewhole ftory ; and fo the king’s fon fell iu love withher, and confidering with himfelf that fuch a giftwas worth more than any marriage-portion what-foever in another, conducted her to the palace ofthe king his father, and there married her.As for her filler, Ihe made herfelf fb much hat¬ed, that her Own mother turned her off; and themiferable wretch having wandered about a goodwhile, without finding any body to take her in,went to a corner in a wood, and there died.FINIS.J. Neilson, printer.