The VirginoMartyr.To which is added, TheBonny House of Airley,AND JJohn Neil’s Frolic.ZalkirK, runted by f. Jolnuqn^ 1815.theVIRGIN MARTYR.Tiitut was a Laly’s daughterIn Paris pr. perh ,Her metier her commandedTo mad that fhe Ihould hie:O pardon me, dear re tber,Her daughter fhe did fay,Unto that h'.thy idolI nsver will obey.With weeping and with wailingHer mother then did go,To affemblc her kinsfolk.That they rhe truth might know ;Who being all afiembled then.Compet’d the maiden fair,And pvrt 1. nto priion,With&i tc iear her there.But when they thought to fear her,She did moll ilr< rg endure;Aitho’ her years were tender.Her faith was firm and lure :( 3 )She valu’d no allurements.N»r fear’d the fiery fleme 1.She hop’d, thro’ Chrut, fier Saviour,To have immortal famo,Before the Judge they brought her,r! hinking that flic would turn,And tiiere was co: detunedInto a fire to burn !I nil rad ;■£ golden bracelets.W,t • c rds the b und her fall !My (Jon ! grar-t writh patience(Qn -ch flie) to die at laft.And "n the morrow after,V'J hich was her dying day,They ilript the nl!y damlerOut of her rich array ! /Her chains of gold fa coftly;Away from her they take;And fhe again moft j >yfuliyDid all the world fcrfake.Unto the place of torment.They brought her fpeedily,A7i-h heart and mind modi confiant.She willing was to die:xBut feeing many LadiesAffembied iti that place,Thsfe words file then pronounced,Lamenti ig .fore their cafe.You Ladies in this city,M*rk well iny werds, quoth foe,AltU.d I fhaUbe burned,. Yet d not pi v me; *Yourfeives I r ther pity,And weep for y. ur decay;Amend »■ ur.iives fair Laflies aU,A.nd dr* not time delay.Ti en came tier mother weepiag.Her daughter to behold.And in her hand the brought herA book covered with gold !Throw he»:ae. quoth foe, that idol,Coevey it fr*m my fight,And bring me here my Bible,Wherein I molt delight.But my diflrtlfod rn»ther,Why wreep jre ?—Be content.You have to death delivered me,M'-u like an innocent:t*T/ ( 5 )•Tormentor do thine officeOn me. when th*n think’f!: beft;But God, mj heavenly Father,Shall bring my foul t* rell.Bat ! my aged Father,Wherever,thou d>’ft lie,Th*u kncweil not thy p*or daughterI* re*d* f r t«* die;But yet among G 'd’s angels,Ir heav’n, I h. pe to darell;T)ieref(>re, my living father,I aid thee now farearel.Farewelflikewife, ray mother;Adieu t* ray friends all lGod grant that y>u and thersMar hear when Chrift d«th call:F'-rf«ke y*»i.r fuperJlirion,The esufe of mortal ftrife; tEmbrace GFirift’s true religian,For which I lofe my life.When all thefe words were uttered,Then came the min of death.Who kindled foan the flaming fireThat flept th^ Virgin’s breath :N( 6 )To Chrift her only Siviour,She did her foul commend :F*rew j], qaoth (he, good people;And fo (ne made an end.TII Ebontny hotse of airley.It !1 on a day, and a bonny fummer day,V hen the corn grew green and yellow.That there fell out a great dU'puteBetween Argyle and Airley.Argvle has raifed a hundred men,A hundred men and mairly.Ana he has gone to tfie back of Dunkeld,F i plunder the bonny houfe of Airley.The Lady look’d over her window,And oh! but fhe look’d weary.And (lie efpy’d the great ArgyleCuming to plunder the bonny honfeof Airley./( 7Come dou n,come down, Madam, he fays.Come down and ki{s me fairly :I will n kifs thee, great Argyle,If ye ihcu’d not leave a flandirg flonein Airley.He has ta’en her by the middle fo fmxll,Says, Lndy, where is ycur drury ;It is up ar.d down tlie benny burn-fide,r . Among the plantings of Airley.They f light it up, they fought it down,They faght it late and airly,And h urd u in the bonny balm-tree,That fhines c*n (he bowling-greenof Airley.He has ta’en Iier by the left flvculder,And O but fhe look’d weary.And la‘d her down cn the green bank,Ti.l he plunder’d the benny houfeof Airley.O ! if my go d L rd v/as at hoqje.As is night he is wi’ Charlie,Great Argyle and all his menDirrfl not plunder the benny heufeof Airley.v( 8 )’Tis ten bonny fons I have born,And th’ eleventh ne’er faw his daddie;And if ][ had a hundred more,I would give them all to Charlie.JOHN AND NELL’s FROLIC,As Nell fat underneath her c*w,Up*n a cock of hay,Brifk John was coming from' the plow,And chanc’d to pafs that way ;Like light’ning t* the maid he (lew,And by the hand he feiz’d her:Pray John, ike cry’d, be quiet, do;Anri frown’d becaufe he pleas’d her.Y*ung Cupid, from his mother^ knee,Obierv’d her female pride;Ga on snd prrfper, J hn fays he,And I will kc your guide.Then aim’d at Nelly's braafi a dart,From pride it i*»n releas’d her ;She fainting cry’d, I feel Uvc’s fmarr,/