CRAWFORD'S TRACTS.■’itj oM;./ />< o.> 7/• ./• cvzA CHOICEDROP 03? HONEY,FROM THEROCK, CHRIST.OR,A SHORT WORD OF ADVICET»ALL SAINTS AND SINNERS.BY THOMAS WILCOCRS.KILAIAUKOCK iP.-bdft/ h> JJ. Crawford, Borhclln-,•.milTV ALi J-.J n ft -1 /-kxxin®CHOICE DROP OF HONEY,FROM THERock, Christ,A WORD of Advice to my own heart^ and thine. Thou art a professor, andpartakest of all ordinances, thou dost well,they are glorious privileges. But if thouhast not the blood of Christ at the root ofthy profession, it will wither and provdbutpainted pageantry to go to hell in.If thou retain guilt, self-righteousnessunder it, those vipers will eat out all thevitals of it at length. Try and examinewith the greatest strictness every day, whatbottom thy profession and hope of thy gloryis built upon,'whether it was laid by thehand of Christ; if not, it will never be ableto endure the storm that must come againstit, Satan will throw it all down, and greatwill be the fall thereof, Matth. vii. 27.Glorious professor, thou shall be win¬nowed ; every vein of thy profession willbe tried to purpose. It is terrible to haveit all come tumbling down, and to find no¬thing but it tf> bottom upon.?Soaring professor, see to thy waxen wingsI betimes, which will melt with the heat ofi temptations. What a misery is it to trademuch, and break at length, and have nostock, no foundation laid for eternity in: thy soul!Gifted professor, look there be not aworm at the root that will spoil all thy fineground, and make it die about thee, in ai day of scorching. Look over thy soul dailyand ask where is the blood of Ciarist to beiseen upon my soul ? What righteousness isthat I stand upon to be saved ? Have I gotoff all my self-righteousness ? Many emi¬nent professors have come at length to cryout, in the sight of the ruin of all their du¬ties, Undone, undone to all eternity!Consider, the greatest sins may be hidinder the greatest duties, and the greatest.errors. See'the wound that sin hath maden thy soul be perfectly cured by the blood>f Christ; not skinned over with jdutiestumblings, enlargements, &c. Apply what; hou wilt besides the blood of Christ, it will? |'ioison the sore. Thou wile find that shifas never mortified truly; that thou hastlot seen Christ bleeding for thee upon thetross; nothing can kill it, but the behold-1' |g of Christ's righteousness.i Nature can afford no balsam fit for soul-jisre. Healing from duty, and not from4Christ, is the most desperate disease. Poor iragged nature with all its highest improve-Imeats, cannot spin a garment fine enoughi(without spot) to cover the soul’s nuked- (ness. Nothing can fit the soul for that uise„flbut Christ’s perfect righteousness.Whatsoever is of nature’s spinning, must Ibe all unravelled, before the righteousnesspof Christ can be put on ; whatsoever is ot|nature’s putting on, Satan will come and|!plunder it every rag away, and leave the|soul naked and open to the wrath of GodIIAll that nature can do, will never make up|,the least dram of grace that can mortLMsin, or look Christ in the face one day. |Thou art a professor, goest on hearingpraying and receiving, yet miserable mayesl*thou be. Look about thee j didst thou eve iyet see Christ to this day, in distinctioifrom all other excellencies and righteousnesin the world, and all these falling befor Lthe majesty of his love and grace, Isa. ii. l"!If thou hast seen Christ truly, thou hasiseen pure grace, pure righteousness in hin:jevery way infinite, far exceeding all sin amimisery ? It thou hast seen Christ, tho:icanst trample upon all righteousness of metand angels, so as to bring thee into accqtation with God. if thou hast seen Christhou wouldst not do a duty without hi:for ten thousand worlds, i Cor. ii. 2.sever t'hou sawest Christ, thou’sawest himiaroch;, higher than self-righteousness, Sa¬tan ajid sin, Psalm ixi. 2. and this rockIdotk follow thee, 1 Cor. x. 4. and there•will be continual dropping of honey andfgra ,ce out of this rock to satisfy thee, Psalm:ikci:xi. 16. Examine if ever thou hast be-ihf ;ld Christ as the only begotten of the Fa-tlier, full of grace and truth, John i. 14,)i6, 17. Be sure thou art come to Christ,’’that thou standest upon the rock of ages,East answered to his call to thy soul, andEast closed with him for your justificationis and salvation.Men talk bravely of believing, whilst1 whole and s&und, few know any thing ofi;i it. Christ is the mystery of the scriptures:!' Grace the mystery of Christ. Believing isthe most wonderful thing in the world !c! Put any thing of thine own to it, and thoupspoilest it: Christ will not so much as look34as it lor believing. When thou believesttiiand comest to Christ, thou must leave be-tchind thee thy own righteousness, and bringn nothing but thy sin, (O that is hard!) leave« behind thy holiness, sanctification, duties,1 humblings, &c. and bring nothing but thywants and miseries, else Christ’s is not fitfor thee, nor thou for Christ. Christ willsijbe a pure Redeemer and Mediator, andSi thou must be an undone sinner, or Christpad thou wilt never agree. It is the hardestthing in the world to take Christ alone for1righteousness $ that is to acknowledge himChrist. Join any thing to him of thy own,and thou un-Christ him.Whatever comes in when thou goest toGcd for acceptation, besides Christ, call itAntichrist, bid it begone; make Christ’srighteousness only triumphant: aJLJbesides jji;that is Babylon, which must fall, iinChrist istand; and thou shalt rejoice in the day of Ithe fall thereof, Isa. i. 10, fl, 12. Christ llalone did tread the wine-press, and there I twas none with him, Isa. Ixiii. S. If thou|<vjoin any thing to Christ, Christ will trampleupon it in fury and anger, and stain hrsraiment with the blood thereof. Thou Ithinkest it easy to believe ; Was ever thyfaith tried with an hour of temptation, anda thorough sightwT sin ? Was it ever putto grapple with Satan, and the wrath ofGod lying upon the conscience ? When S(l 'thou wast in the mouth of hell and the |igrave, then did God shew thee Christ,, a tiransom, a righteousness, &c. Then couldstthou say, Oh! I see enough of grace inChrist. Thou mayest say that which is the pgreatest word in the world, Thou believ- |est. Untried faith is uncertain faith.To believing, there must go a dear con-auction of sin, and the mcits of the blood7of Christ, and of Christ’s willingness to saveupon this consideration merely. That thouart a sinner ; things all harder than to makea World. All the power in nature cannotget up so high in a storm of sin and guilt,really to believe, there is any grace, anywillingness in Christ to save. When Satancharged sin upon the conscience, then forthe soul to charge it upon Christ, that isgospel-like. That is to make him Christ,1 he servbs for tjiat use. To accept Christ’srighteousness alone, his blood alone forsalvatibh, that is the sum of the gospel."When the soul, in all duties and distresses,i can say, Nothing but Christ, Christ alone,i for righteousness, justification, and redemp-‘3 tion, 1 Cor. i. 30, not humblings, not du-d j ties, not graces, &c. that soul hath got a-bove the reach of the billows, even to thep1 haven of rest.All temptations, Satan’s'advantages ouri!complainings, are laid in self-righteousness,l:and self-excellency : God pursueth these,day setting Satan upon thee, as Laban didiJacob for his images: these must be tornifrom thee, be as unwilling as thou wilt;(these hinder Christ from coming in, andhill Christ come in, guilt will nol go out;land where guilt is, there is hardness of■k heart: and therefore much guilt argueslittle, if any thing, of Christ.!:aWhen guilt is raised up, take heed ofgetting it allayed any way but by Christ’sblood, that will tend to hardening, makeChrist thy peace, Eph. ii. 14, not thy du¬ties, thy tears, &c. Christ thy righteous¬ness, not thy graces &c. Thou mayestdestroy Christ by duties, as well as by sins.Look at Christ, and do as much as thouwilt. Stand with all thy weight uponChrist’s righteousness ; take heed of hav¬ing one foot on thy own righteousness jand another on Christ’s. Till Christ comeand sit on high upon a throne of grace inthe conscience, there is nothing but guilt,terrors, secret suspicions, the soul hangingbetween hope and fear, which is an ungos-peldike state.He that fears to see sin's utmost vileness,the utmost hell of hb own heart, he sus¬pects the merits of Christ. Be thou neversuch a great sinner, 1 John ii. 3, try Christ,to make him the advocate, and thou shaltfind him Jesus Christ the righteous. Ina)l doubtings, fears, storms of conscience,look at Christ continually, do not argue itwith Satan, he desires no better; bid himgo to Christ, and he will answer him. Itis bis oflice to be our advocate, 1 John ii.1, his office to answer law as our surety,Heb. vii. 22, his office to answer justice as«ur Mediator, Gal. iii. 29. 1 Tim. ii. 5,9and he is sworn to that office, Hcb* vh,^O, 21. Put Christ upon it. If thonwilt do any tiling thyself, as to satisfactionfor sin, thou renounceth Christ the righ- .teous, who was made sin for thee, 2 Cor,v 22.Satan may alledge, and corrupt Scrip¬ture, but he cannot answer Scripture. Itis Christ’s word of mighty authority.—Christ ^foiled Satan with it, Matth. iv. K>.In all^the Scripture there is not an ill wordagainst a poor sinner, stripped of self-righ¬teousness : Nay, it plainly points out thisman to be the subject of the grace of thegospel, and none else. Believe but Christ’swillingness, and that will make thee will¬ing. If thou findest thou canst not be¬lieve, remember it is Christ’s work to makethee believe; put him upon it, he worksto will and to do of his good pleasure, Phil,ii. IS. Mourn for thy unbelief, which isa setting up of guilt in the conscience fc-bove Christ, an undervaluing the meritsof Christ, accounting his blood an unholy,a common, and an unsatisfying thing.Thou complainest much of thyself. Doththy sin make thee look more at Christ, andless at thyself? That is right, otherwisecomplaining is but thy hypocrisy. To belooking at graces, duties, enlargements,when thou shouldest be looking at Christ,19that is “pitiful. Looking at them will butimk's thee proud ; and looking at Christ's .will but make thee humble. By ,g: ace you are saved^ Kph. ii. 5. In all thytemptations, be not discouraged, James i. .p;2. Those scourges may be, not to break Lthee, but to heave thee off thyself, on the r.rock Christ.Thou mayest be brought low, even to pthe brink of hell, ready to tumble in ; thou ;canst not be brought lower than the belly tof hell; many saints have been there, even \dowsed in hell; Yet, there thou mayest fcry, there thou mayest look towards his iholy temple, Jonah ii. 4. Into that temple .none might enter but purified ones, andwith an offering too, Acts xvj. 26. Butnow Christ is our temple, sacrifice, altar, sand high priest, to whom none must come ».but sinners, and that without any offer¬ing, but his own blood once offered, Heb. rvii. 27.Remember all the patterns of grace thatare in heaven. Thou thinkest, Oh ! what .a monument of grace wouldst thou be! iThere are many thousands as rich monu- \ments as thou canst be. The greatest sin- ■ner did never pass the grace of Christ. Do j.riot despair : Hope still; when the clouds pare blackest, even then look toward Christ,the standing pillar of the Father’s love and ^*5*T11grace set no in heaven for a:i sinners togaze upon continually’, whatsoever baias*or conscience say, do not conclude againscthyself, Christ shall have the last word .I He is Judge of quick and dead, and shallpronounce the final sentence. His bloodspeaks reconciliation, Coins, i. 20. Cleans¬ing, 1 Joha i. 17. Purchase, Acts xx. 23,Redemption, 1 Peter i. 19. Purging, Heb..ix. 13, 15. Remission, verse 22. Liberty,Heb. x. 19. Justification, Rom’, v. 9,i Nighness to God, Eph. ii. 13. Not a dropi of this blood shall be lost. Stand andhearken to what God will say; for he will]ij speak peace to his people, that they returni|i no more to folly, Psalm Ixxxv. 8. He| speaks grace, mercy, and peace, 2 Tim. i.!i 2. That is the language of the Father*andi of Christ. Wait for Christ’s appearingnas the morning star, Rev. xxii. 19. Heishall come as certainly as the morning, as|refreshingly as the rain, Hos. vi. 3._ The sun may as well be hindered fromirising, as Christ the Sun of righteousness,liMal. iv. 2. I^ook not a moment off Christ,Xook not upon sin, but look upon Christifirst: when thou mournest for sin, if thoui dost not see Christ first, then away with-t, Zech. ii. 16. In every duty look atChrist, before duty to pardon, in duty toassist, and after duty to accept. Without12thi3, it is the carnal, careless duty. Do hot ilegalize the gospel, as if part did remain |for thee to do and suffer, and Christ were Ibut an half Mediator, and thou must bear |part of thy own sin, make part satisfaction,Let sin break thy heart, but not thy hopein the gospel, .*Look-more at justification than sanctifi- >!cation. la the •highest commands, considerChrist, not as an exactor, to require, buta debtor, and an -undertaker, to work. Ifthou hast looked at workings, duties, qua¬lifications, &c. more than at the merits ofChrist, it will cost thee dear : No wonderthou goest complaining. Graces may beevidences, the merits of Christ alone, with¬out them, must be the foundation of thyhope to bottom on. Christ only can bethe hope of glory. Col. i. 27.When we come to God, we must bringnothing but Christ with us. Any ingre-dients, or any previous qualifications ofour own, will poison and corrupt faith. ,He that builds upon duties, graces, Sec.knows hot the merits of Christ. This makesbelieving so hard, so far above nature; ifthou believest, thou must every day re¬nounce, as dung and dross, Phil. Hi. 7, 8,thy privileges, thy obedience, thy baptism,thy sanctification, thy duties, thy graces,thy tears, thv meltings, and thy humblings.fIS,and notliing but Christ must be held up.;every day thy workings and thy self-suf¬ficiency must be destroyed. Thou musttake all out of God’s hand. Christ is thegift of God, John iv. 10. Faith is the giftof God, Eph. ii. 8. Pardon is a free gift,Rom. V. ] 6. Ah, how nature storms, frets,and rageth at this, that all is of gift, andit can purchase nothing with its actings,and duties ; that all workings are exclud¬ed, and of no value in heaven $ that allmust be of sovereign grace and unmeritedfree love and favour!If nature had been to contrive the,w>ayof salvation, it would rather have put it inthe hands of saints or angels, to sell it, thanof Christ (who gives freely) whom there¬fore it suspects; it would have a way set upto purchase by doing : Therefore it abomi¬nates the merits of Christ, as the most de¬structive thing to it. Nature would do anything to be saved, rather than go to Christ,or close with him: Christ will have nothing;the soul will force somewhat of his own up¬on Christ. Herein that great controversyconsider, didst thou ever yet see the meritsof Christ, and the infinite satisfaction mad*by his death ? Didst thou see this when theburthen of sin, and the wrath of God layheavy on thy conscience? That is grace.The greatness of Christ’s merits is not-14known but to a poor soul as the^-greates11loss. Slight convictions will have slight flow prizings of Christ’s blood and merits..]'Despairing sinner! thou lookest on thywright hand and on thy left, saying, Who ‘will |-shew us any good? Thou art tumbling overall thy duties and professions to patch up a ?righteousness to save thee. Look at Christ !now; Look io him and be saved all the ends l1!of the earth, Isa. xlv. 22. There is none else. ];He is a Saviour, and there is none besides Ip.him. Look any where else, and thou art faundone. God will look at nothing but faChrist, and thou must look at nothing else, iChrist is lifted up on high, (as the brazen jserpent in the wilderness) that sinners at | lthe ends of the earth, the greatest distance, j,may see him, and look towards him. The It •least sight cf him will be saving, and the j:least touch healing to thee j and God in- |jtends thou shouldst look on him, for he bhath set him upon a high throne of glory, Jiin the open view of all poor sinners. Thouhast infinite reason to look on him, but noreason at all to look off him ; for he is meekand lowly of heart, Matth. ad. 29. He willdo that himself which he requires of hiscreatures, viz. bear with infirmities, Rom.xv. 1. not pleasing himself, not standingupon points of law. He will restore withthe spirit of meekness, and bear the bur-ISthens, Gal. vi. 1,2. He v/ill forgive, notonly till seven times, but seventy timesseven, Matlh. xviii. 21, 22. It put the faithof the apostles to it to believe this, Lukexvii. 4, 5. Because we are hard to forgive,we think Christ is hard.We see sin great, we think Christ dothso ; and measure infinite love with our line,infinite merits with our sins, which is thegreatest pride and blasphemy, Pst!, ciii. I I,12. Isa. xL 15. Hear what he saith, / havefound a ransom^ Job. xxxiii. 24. In him I amu'ell pleased, Matth. iii. 17. God will havenothing else; nothing else will do theegood, or satisfy conscience, but Christ, whosatisfied the Father. God doth all upon theaccount of Christ. Thy deserts are hell,.wrath, and rejection. Christ’s deserts arelife, pardon, and acceptation. He will notonly shew the one, but he will give thee theother. It is Christ’s own glory and happi¬ness to pardon. Consider whilst Christ wason the earth, he was more among publicansand sinners, than among Scribes and Pha¬risees, his professed adversaries, for theywere righteous ones. It is not as thouimaginest, that his state in glory makes himneglectful of, or scornful to poor sinners ;no, he hath the same heart now in heaven,he is God, and changeth not: He is theLamb of God, that taketh away the sins of16the \*orld, John i. 29. He went throughall thy temptations, dejections,, sorrows,desertions, and rejections. Mat. iv. 3,— 26.Mark xv. 24. Luke xxii. 44 Matth. xxxvi.33 ; and hath drunk the bitterest of thecup, and left thee the sweet; the condem¬nation is out, Christ drank up all the Fa¬ther's wrath at one draught; and nothingbut salvation is left to thee. Thou sayestthou canst not believe, thou canst not re¬pent : the fitter for Christ, if thou hast no¬thing but s‘n and misery. Go.-to Christwith all thy impenitency and unbelief, toget faith and repentance from him ; that isglorious! Tell Christ, Lord,! have broughtno righteousness, no grace to be acceptedin, or justified by : I am come for thine,and must have it. We would be bringingto Christ, and that must not be; not apenny of nature’s highest improvementswiil pass in heaven. Grace wall not standwith works, Tit. iii. 5. Ronr xi. 6. That isa terrible point to nature! which cannotthink of being strict of all, not having a ragof duty or righteousness left to look at. Selfrighteousness and self-sufficiency arc thedarlings of nature, which she preserves asher life; that makes Christ seem ugly tonature, nature cannot desire him ; he is justdirectly opposite to all nature’s glorious in¬terests. Let nature but make a gospel, and"i/ 17lit would make it quite contrary to Christ:It would be to the just, the innocent, the:holy, &c. Christ made the gospel for thee,i that is, for needy sinners, the ungodly, theunrighteous, and the accursed. Nature can¬not endure to think the gcsptl is only forsinners; it will rather chuse to despair thanI to go to Christ, upon such terrible terms.'1 When nature is but put to it by guilt ori wrath, it will go to its old haunts of self-! righteousness, self-goodness, &c. An in finiteI power must cast down these strong holds.None but the self justified stands cx-i eluded from the gospel; Christ will look; at the most abominable sinner before him,il because to such an one Christ cannot be: made justification; he is no sinner. To?! say in compliment, I am a sinner, is easy;I but to pray with the publican. Lord, he" merciful to me a sinner, is indeed the hardest|f prayer in the world. It is easy to say, II believe in Christ; but to see Christ full>- ©f grace and truth, out of whose fulnesst thou mayest receive grace for grace; thatI is, saying. If is easy to profess Christ with1 the mouth ; but to confess him with thef hearty as Peter, (to be the Christ , the Soni of the living God, the alone Mediator,)that is above flesh and blood- Many callChrist a Saviour ; few know him so. Tosee grace and salvation in Christ, is th'"18greatest sight in the world; none can dothat, but at the same time they shall seethat glory and salvation to be theirs.Sights will cause applications. I may beashamed to think, in the midst of so" muchprofession, that I have known' little of theblood of Christ, which is the main thing ofthe gospel. A Christless, formal professionwill be the blackest sight, next to heU, thatcan be. Thou mayest have many; goodthings, and yet onething may be a^want-ing, that may make thee go away sorrow¬ful from Christ. Thou hast never sold allthou hast, never parted with all thine ownrighteousness, &c. Thou mayest be highin duty, and yet a perfect enemy antf ad¬versary to Christ, in every prayer, and inevery ordinance. Labour -after sanctifica¬tion to thy utmost; but make not a Christof it to save thee; if so, it must come downone way or other. Christ's infinite satis*faction, not thy sanctification, must be thyjustification before God. When the Lordshall appear terrible out of his holy place,fire shall consume that as hay and stubble.This will be sound religion, only to bot¬tom all upon the everlasting mountains ofGod’s love and grace in Christ, to livecontinually in the sight of Christ’s infiniterighteousness aud merits, ^they are sancti¬fying, and without them the heart is car-tiii!*1It19nal) and in those sights to see the full vile¬ness, yet littleness of sin, and to see all par¬doned ; in those sights to pray, hear, &c.| seeing thy polluted self, and all thy weakperformances accepted continually ; in thosesights to trample upon all thy self glories,righteousnes* and privileges, as abominable,and be found continually in the righteous¬ness of Christ only*, rejoicing in the ruinsofothy own righteousness, the spoiling ofall thy own excellencies, that Christ alone,as Mediator, may be exalted in his throne,jpouming over all thy duties (how glori-o'ir- soever)- that thou hast not performedin the sight and sense of Christ’s love.Without the blood of Christ on the con-! science, all is but a dead service^ Heb. xi.14.That opinion of free-will, so cried up,will be easily confuted (as it is in the Scrip-! ture) in the heart, by those who have had!any spiritual dealing with Jesus Christ,,‘s to the application of his merits, andsubjection to his righteousness. Christ isevery way too magnificent a person for apoor nature to close withal, or to appre¬hend. Christ is so infinitely holy, naturedurst never believe him to be snch, whenit lies under full sight of sin. Christ istoo high and glorious for nature so muchji ?s to touch. There must be a divine na-;s t*re first put into the soul, to make it la"*20hold on him, he lies so infinitely beyondthe sight or reach of corrupt nature.That Christ which natural free-will caaapprehend, is but a natural Christ of man’sown making, not the Father's Christ, norJesus the son of the living God, to whomnone can come without the Father’s draw¬ing, John vi. 44, 46.Finally, Search the Scriptures daily, asmines of gold, wherein the heart of Christis laid. Watch against constitutional sins;see them in their vilepess, and they shallnever break out into act. Keep alwaysan humble, empty, and broken frame ofheart, sensible of any spiritual miscarriage,,observant of all inwards workings, and fittor the highest communications. Keep notguilt in the conscience, but apply the bloodof Christ immediately. God chargeth sinand guilt upon thee, to make thee look toChrist the brazen serpent.Judge not Christ’s love by providences,but by promises. Bless God for shakingoff false foundations, and for any waywhereby he keeps the soul awakened andlooking after Christ ; better sickness and.temptations, than security and slightness.A slighty spirit will turn a profane spirit,and will sin and pray too. Slightness is thebane of profession, if it be not rooted outof the heart, by constant and serious deal-21ings with,, and bcholdings of Christ in du*tics; it will grow more strong and moredeadly, by being under church-ordinance!!.Measure not thy grace by other at¬tainments, but by Scripture-trials. Be se¬rious and exact in duty, having the weightof it upon the heart; but b C 2.3 much afraidof taking comfort from duties, as from sins.Comfort from any hand but Christ, is verydeadly. Be much in prayer, pr you will ne¬ver keep up much coat minion with God.As ypu are in closet-prayer so you will bein all other ordinances.Reckon not duties by high expressions,but by low frames, and the beholdings ofChrist. Tremble at -duties and gifts. ItWas the saying of a great saint, that hewas more afraid of his duties than his sins;the one often made him proud, the otheralways made him humble. Treasure upmanifestations of Christ’s love; they makethe heart low for Christ, too high for sin.Slight not the lowest, meanest evidencesof grace : God may put thee to make useof the lowest as thou thinks, even that, IJohn iii. 14. that may be worth more thana thousand worlds to thee.Bfe true to truth, but not turbulent andscornful j restore such as are fallen, helpthem up again with all the bowels of Christ.Set the broken disjointed bones with thrgrace of the gospel. High professor, des¬pise not weak saints; thou rnayest come towish to be in the condition of the mean¬est of them. Overlook the infirmities ofothers, but be sensible of thy own. Visitsick beds and deserted souls much, theyare excellent scholars in experience.Abide in your calling, be dutiful to allrelations as td the Lord. Be content withlittle of the world, little will serve. Thinkevery little of the earth much, because un¬worthy the least. Think much of heavennot too little, because Christ is so rich andfree. Think every thing better than thy¬self, and carry every self-loathing aboutthee, as one fit -to be trampled upon by ailsaints. See the vanity of the world, andthe consumption that is upon all things,and love nothing but Christ. Mourn tosee so little of Christ in the world, so fewneeding him. Trifles please them better.To a secure soul Christ is but a fable, theScriptures but a story. Mourn to thinkhow many under baptism and church or¬der, that are not under grace; lookingmuch after duty and obedience, but littleafter Christ, little versed in grace. Preparefor the cross, welcome it, bear it triumph¬antly like Christ’s cross, whether scoffs,mockings, jeers, contempt and imprison¬ments, &c. but sec that it be Christ’s cross.Sin will hinder from glory in the crossof Christ; omitting little truths againstlight, may breed hell in the conscience; aswell as committing the greatest sins againstlight. If thou hast been taken out of thebelly of hell into Christ’s bosom, and madeto sit among princes in the household ofGod. Oh, how shouldst thou live as apattern of mency, redeemed, restored soul!What infinite sums dost thcu owe Christ!“With what singular frames must thou walk,and do every duty! On Sabbaths, whatpraising days, singing of Hallelujahs, shouldthey be to thee! Church fellowship, whata heaven, a being with Christ, and angelsand saints communion! What a drowningthe soul in eternal love, as a burial withChrist, dying to all things besides him.Every time thou thinkest of Christ, beastonished and wonder; and when thouseest sin, look at Christ’s grace, that didpardon it; and when thou art proud, lookHat Christ’s grace, that shall humble andistrike thee down in the dust. If youwould pray and cannot, and so are dis¬couraged, see Christ praying for you,musing his interest with the Father for you.What can you want? (John xiv. 17.•and chap, xvii.) If you be troubled, seeuChrist your peace, (Ephes. ii. 14.) leaving!.you peace when he went up to heaven,again and again charging you not to b* itroubled, no not in the least (sinfulHtroubled,) so as to obstruct thy comfor !or thy believing, John xiv. !, 27. He inow upon the throne, having spoiled upor Iliis cross (in the lowest state of his humijliation) all whatsoever can hurt or anno} ithee. He hath born all thy sins, sorrowstroubles, temptations, &c. and is gone tc,:prepare mansions for thee.J hou who hast seen Christ all, and thy jself absolutely nothing, who makest Chrisiall thy life, and art dead in all righteous* iness besides, i-hou art the Christian, one Ihighly beloved, and who hath found fa¬vour with God, a favourite of heavensDo Christ this one favour tor all his lovfito thee, love all his poor saints and churchics (the meanest, the weakest, notwhhstand*ing any difference in judgement) they are!engraven on his heart, as the names of theiichildren of Israel on Aaron’s breast-platej,(Exod. xxvhi 2J.) let them be so on thine.Pray for the peace ef Jerusalem, the') shallprosper that love thee, Psaim exxii. fc.Y l N I