I he Beggar Girl.To which are a’ded,- JRoJJin Cqftle. -X7 be JVe sver and the Tailor,I be Modern Beau,Hap me voitb thy Petticoat.Stirlirgj by M.<44The Beggar Girl.Over the mountain, and over the moor,hunery and barefoot I wander forlorn ;My father is dead, and my mother is poor,and she grieves for the days that will never re jturn.Piky kind gentlemen, friends of humanity, * jcold blows the wind and the night«s coming orjGive me some fcod for my mother in charity, } |give me seme food and then I will begone.THE SHEPHERD’S HOLIDAY. Ii iP l ,, / ik>AS I went forth one morning, ‘Jthe fields and meadows so fresh and gay, 1;Flora the tpangling beams adorning,early by the bre.k of day.■ ^ 0", i . II,I went to pluck my love sweet posies.the whitest blossom from the fie’d, . r, •Down by the banks of pinks end roses, ; ? ,thq^e sat Clymenia most mild. JJYe gentle Gods of silent slumber,caus’d her youthful eyes to ^,'eep,Xjiitil the vatchful shepherd call’d her,t ,; - * A3i all for to guard her harmless sheepjArise Clymenia, dearest creature,ji aiise, for it is almost day ;iThe sun its golden beams are spreading,arise, or else your flocks will stray.Then early arose the fair Clymenia,and on her spinnet did sweetly play:You are welcome to me my shepherd,welcome the shepherd’s holiday.ROiLIN C VS FLE,rTWAS in that season of the year,When all things gay and sweet appear,That Colm with the morning ray,I Arose and sung his ruial lay.Of Nanny's charms the shepherd sung;The hills and dales with Nanny rung:['While Roslin castle heard the swain,lAnd echo’d baca the cheerful str .hi.S Awake, sweet muse, the breathing springI With rapture war ns ; awake, and sing ;S A-a-ake, and join the vocal throng,lAnd hail the morning with a song.To Nanny raise the cheerful lay,1 O bid her haste and co re away ;| In sweetest smiles herself adorn,I And add new graces to the morn.4O hark, my lore ! on cr’ry spray.Each feather’d warbler tunes his lay ;’ Tis beauty fires the ravish d throng,And love inspires the melting song.Then let my ravish'd notes arise, iF^r beauty darts from Nanny's eyes* yAnd love my rising bosom warms,And fills my soul with sweet alarms.O come, my love, thy Colin‘s lay"With rapture calls. Oh ! come away;Come, while the muse this-wreath shall twineAround that modest brow of thine jO hither haste, and with thee bring'I hat beauty, blooming like.the spring;Those graces that divinely shine.And charm this ravish'd heart of mine.jTHE WE AVER and THE TAILOR:As I w*8 *«walkingdown hy yon fhady grore,I hecrd a couple talking,it w as conceiaing lore,The young man being a wctvtr,the maid Ihe prov d ihy ;And Lexnc* fu l well by her difesurfe,Ihelos’d a try lor boy.My de»r, for to m ir.uin yon,IM make my Ihuttle fly ;I’ll wear ray finger* to the boat, ^csw faSikai for to buyj5I’ll Luy ycu fi t* and fa.ins,izi a i tMrrgiycu do fhcofcjI’ll buy ytu aU newthat you read of in the nevs.O howcia you nisiatain me,and you a journey man ;Hi w t2Q you maiitain me,v htu you harene’^r a loom ?Withycur Ue and your rubbing bene,your-keife inftcad of iheerb:B> t 1M go wed the taylor boy,that needs neither reed aer gear.If you d> wed the tay'orbd,You’d 1 avc to take out the dung {Yeu’.l v uv! to dig the pnlatoes,for w rit he cau do none :Ycu’il have to enry in the pea:?,in a fcafket or a crec!,Whi e ti e tailor he Cti on lu beach,threading a bar of ilec’.Ho'd your tongue of my tailor hoy,he’ll net do io to me }For when that he d. cs ga abroad,i'll take ary libettr ;And 1 wi 1 go a goffiping,ia a 1 p’aoei tai o’ tie town :And I *itl p'.eafe my tiylor boy,at noon, * hen he comes home.W hca ycjir^tai'or boy data come home|H* .. chp t ff both your ears;lie’ll teat yt u with Lia lappiag board,with his knife mftcad of fours j/6He will c'hi'e yi.-u Tor ppir.f< id’e,the ’cngth o’ the wiiol e'ay ;And -ui iron g o'e ;iv; you to pluck,in c i-l pf dnilt.u. tea.Ho d y ur tongu of ny tay’erboy,rle . i.pt do jio to qae ;For AuRip.was a.tayl-.rwl.,-n the w.qr4d hegaa fo free ;. ForA iam e m ide r.p oo3out of tbs »• aves fo fiue ;Eo cveriince the vsorid beganThe taijci trade doth fhiae.But if you fa-* your tayior lad,w: eu h.- fits all alone,You vveu'd take i im for an orn3rne£'.t,for ie s you can fe.r none :Like a frog upon a beating ftoae,he fits the live long day,Wbi e the Weaver he goes peat and trial,amoagi the ladies g, y.THE MODERN.BE kU.MY daddy is.dead and has loft me fome money,I’ll drefs very fine and lo k very fum y’■1 buy a fine coacfy w th fine herfes to carry rae.Who knows ttien bu! fotuc young iady will nurryWith my put} eiu, ftrut em, -fridc.em, (n-ns.Walk cm, run cm, r.de em tol.#With my flnsrt «oRt to rid: and mj breech:* cfleather,*I look like a Cockney n;w cut out of featk; r,7 _ .Then I rrnniit otf my p»d fo fw'ft’y does carryrue.And I nod at I paf; to my Lord aad Sir Harry.With my pnft cm.I’ put on fire clothes, and go to the hhl? Sir,Then pull out my gbis ®nd at t'-erp gp, gj^To be hliod is the fafhion, >o I’tt be blind"too, Sir.And if you pren at m-, why then I’ll ftjuiat it you,W;tU my puff em, Sc;. (SiriAs I ftrut round thr room, I l*are in their f*c».Then pall down my riiifl s all-,cr yetfd with daces;The Ldieo a'-l pe/e whi e their hearts ire a thumping.What a fwett iehow’a that y.un^’t'qui-eWith hi» puff em, ^te. . . [Lumpiin.I walk rut o* the room and fometitnei I ftsy in it,As us great folk.* can’t make up our minds 10 a min-We tit down te er ds snd p.'ay it bonfwaber, f nute ;We hind rpum- the wjr.e and drink hibpr naber.With our puff cm; Sec,We fet rour.d t' r- wine till wc ’re as drunk as buffers,Then wc knock dowu the e^nd'e, tah'e. and feuffen ;Tne waiter com e in, we put Him in the fir*,And then Aumbichome a l cover’d with mire.Hrfj} me ninth tfii/ Peititcdt.• O Bell^thy leeks bive kift-sl iry lietjff,I pass the cay in pain’;When night tetur-ns, I feel the smart,and wish for thee in rain.8I’m starving cold, whilst thou art warm}have pity and incline,A nd grant me for a hap that charm-,ing petticoat ot thine.My ravish'd fancy, in amaze,still wander# o‘er thy charms;Delusive dreams, ten thousand ways,present thee to my arms,Then waking think what 1 endure ;whi e cruel you declineThose pleasures, which can only curethis panting breast of mine.I faint, I fail, I wildly reve,because you still deny1 he just reward that's due to love,and let true passion die.Oh, turn, and let compassion ssizethat lovely breast of thine :Thy petticoat would give me ease,if thou and it were mine.Sure Heav'n has fitted for delightthat beauteous form of thine,And thour't toa good its laws to slight;by hind'ring the design,May all the powers of love ape©jat ength to make thee m nc ;Or loose my chains, and set me fie*from every charm of thine.FIN I S:K