THE RENOWNEDH I S T O R YO F T H ESeven Champions of Chriilendom.V I z.St. George of England,St. James of Spain,St. Andrew of Scotland,St. David of Wales,St. Dennis of France,St. Anthony of Italy,andSt. Patrick of Ireland.SHEWING,Their valiant Exploits both by Sea and Land : theircombating with Giants, Monfters, Lions and Dra¬gons : Their Tilts and Tournaments in honour oftheir Miltreffes; Their overcoming Magicians andNecromancers, and putting an end to their direfulEnchantments: Their Knight-hood, Chivalry, andmagnanimous prowefs, againft the enemies of Chriil,and in honour of Chriftendom, in Europe, Afia, andAfrica.G L A SG O W,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,[No. 2c.] §i-UiE«rket, j8o8.( Of SCOTLAND71PPiT H ERENOWNED HISTORYOF THE:ven Champions of Chriftendom*CHAP. i.The birth of St. George ; how he ions ft'Jen away fromhis ni.rfes^ and how he delivered himfelf, and the otherJ:x C/jttrrpious, from the Cave of Kalby, the Enchax.t-refs.AFTER that this our ifland (firft inhabited byBrute) began to flourifli with arts and arms, inthe famous city of Coventry lived the renowned Al-ett. Lord High Steward of England, that took towife a lady of matchlefs beauty and virtue, who, hav¬ing been long barren, at laft conceived with child, butnightly dreams fo tormented her mind, that fhe wasconceived of a Dragon which (hould caufe her death,that Ihe never ceafed, but caufed her lord by art to learnwhat fliould be the meaning therefore, who, condefcer.d-ing to her defines, accompanied only with one knight,repaired to Kalby, the lady of the wotds, from whomhe received this myftericus Oracle :Sir Knight return home to thy Lady,Who hath brought forth a worthy baby,A Champion bold, of courage flout,Whofe fame ftiall ring the world throughout.Having received this anfvver, they foon returned, butereIMS E V E N C H A M PI O N S, k z. ?ere he came home, his Lady by loung her own life,brought another life into the world, being deliveredof a fon, upon whofe breaft was figured a dragon, on: his right Land a blood-red crofs, and on his left leg aj golden garter: his*name was given him, George, andthree nurfes provided to look to him r notwishltand-i ing which, he was ftolen away by the enchantrefs1 ! Kalby; which, when his father upon his return found,: he left his habitation for very grief, and ended his lifei in a ftrange country.In the mean time, St. George grew in ftrength andbeauty, whofe noble deportment (being now grown: i to man’s cftate) f > fired the heart of the enchantrefs:j with lull, that with all the feducement imaginable,Thefought to accomplilh her defires, and to gain his af-; feftions, revealed to him of what lineage he was, andalfo gave him the command of her cave, by the gift ofa filver wand, which (he put in his hand, leading himto a rock to behold feme trophies of her forceries, buti fire entering in before him, he {truck the rock with his' I1 wand, which prefently clofed, and in it this miferablcr woman, where fire ended her wretched life.St. George then, like a valiant knight, releafed fromI thraldom fix worthy Champions, whom this enchant-i' refs Kalby had a long time kept prifoners ; viz. St.Dennis of France, St. James of Spain, St. Anthony1 of Italy, St. Andrew of Scotland, St. Patrick of Ire¬land, and St. David of Wales j he with them mount-i ing their fteeds, and girding on their fwords, whichalfo they found in the cave, departed forth to feeki out adventures, travelling tilt they cam* to a fpacious'! plain, in the midil whereof flood a brazen pillar, that! had feven feveral ways leading to it, which invited| thefe feven Champions to take each of them a diverfeI path. Where we will leave fix of them to their dif¬ferent progreffes, and relate in the firlt place the ad-ventur's of our Englifn Knight, as you may read init the chapter following.'C H A P.4SEVEN CHAMPIONSCHAP. II.How St. George killed the burning Dragon in Egypt, andredeemed Sabr'tne the King’s Daughter from death.How he was betrayed by Almidor the blitk King ofMorocco, and frit unto the Sultan of Petfta, where heremained feven years in pry on.THE valiant St George, having left the other fixChampions, as you have heard, after fome fewmonths travel, arrived within the Egyptian territories,which country was at that time annoyed with a burn¬ing dragon, wliofe hunger, if it w$re not every daysppeafed with the body of a true virgin, he wouldbreathe forth fuch a ftench from his nollrils, as Infect¬ed the whole country with a horrible plague, whichfor four end twenty years together continued, rill therewas not one virgin left but the King’s Daughter only,and (he ready next day to be olfered up in facrifice tohim, if the dragon in the mean time was not dellroy-ed : wherefore the King, her father, proclaimed, thatwhofoever would combat with the dragon, and prefervehis daughter’s life, in renown thereof fhould have herto wife, and the crown of Egypt after his deceafe ; allwhich-was made known to St. George, by a hermit ofthat country; whereupon he refolved to undertake theiadventure, and .lodging with the hermit that night,the next morning mounting his fteed, he took his jour¬ney to a valley, whither the King’s Daughter was lead-ing by fage matrons to be made g prey to the dragon’slaws, whom our Engjifh Knight accofting, returningiier back to her father, promifed to kill that enemy ofEgypt’s health, or lofe his life in the encounter, andfo, like a bold adventurous knight, rode to the placewhere the dragon had his refidence.This horrible dragon, whofe monftrous proportionwould have frightened any body but'only St. George,ns foon as (he beheld him, wallowed from her hide¬ous den, and gave him a fierce affault with her wingsand tail, who nimbly avoided her fury, gave her fuch athruitO F C II III S T E N D O M. 51 thruft with Iiis fpcar, that it fhivered into five hundredi pieces ; the dragon coining on afrefh, fmote hirn fucirf a deadly blow, as felled both horfe and man to thei jground ; when again riling and ftepping a little bach-ii(wards. he went under the nrotedlion of an orange1 tree, which was of fitch virtue, that no venomous thing1 jdurit approach unto it, where this valiant knight a.: Iwhile relied him, and tefVdhed hirr.ftlf with the: joice of one of the oranges, he again entered combatdwith the dragon, after many fierce affauits with an; Eager courage doled with her, and thriill his fword upi ito the hilt in her belly, being penetrable in no other1 place, from whence illued fucii abundance of purplet gore as turned the grafs into vermilion colour, and: •then redoubling his blows, gave her Inch another thruft; mnder the wing with his fword, as pierced her heart,1 Hirer, and bone, and made her yield her life to theforce of the conquering champion, who returned thanks:to heaven for his victory : With his good fword whichwas called Afcaion, he cut eff the dragon’s head, andtjipitcbed it upon the truncheon of his fpcar, rode to¬wards the court, expediting for his good fervice to be1 miolt royally entertained.li, At that time Almidor, the black king of Morocco,was in earneft fuit with king Ptolemy, for to have his: daughter Sabrine in marriage, and having notice of St.si George’s victory, fearing he would become his rival,she intended to rob him of his honour, and to that pur-spofe, hired twelve Egyptian Knights, who fet upon•ISt. George as he was coining to court; but the valianti Champion fo behaved himfelf, that in a little fpsce he1 made their lives pay for their treachery ; which Almi-i1 dor perceiving, when he could do no olherwife, ranto the court, crying, Victoria! Vidtoria! The enemyof Egypt is overthrown.This being made known to K. Ptolemy. St. Georgewas meft royally received by him, but far more cour-teonfiy by his beautiful daughter, Sabrine, who thenfit her alteftions fo deeply on him, as length of timei would not wear it out, which fhe couid not forbear toex-6 SEVEN CHAMPIONScxprefe unto him, and once at fucli a time as {he wasoverheard by this black-a-moor Kinpf, tvhofe love (hederided in refpcdt to the Erglilli Knight’s, profferingto forfake her parents and idol-gods, and to travelv!:h him wherefoever Fcrtune would guide their fteps;all which was by Almidor made known to king Pto-kiny, who thereupon confulting together, framed aletter t6 the Sidtan of Peffia, in which wa« containedhis fentence of death, and be made the meffenger tocarry his own condemnation, which he very innocent*iy undertook to do ; and coming to Perfia, near theSultan’s palace, obferving their monftrous idolatry, hecould no longer hold, but threw down their imagesof Mahomet and Apollo, and {lew thofe who offeredto withftand him ; infomuch, that the rumour thereofbeing ncifed at the court, great forces were fent a-gainft him, whom he eppofed in tingle felf, and featmany of them to the Stygian river; but multitudesovercoming valour, his numerous enemies fo weariedhis arm, that his never daunted courage was forced toyield, and let his weapon fail to the ground.There was he taken and carried before the Sultan,to whom he delivered Ptolemy’s letter, who thereatmuch enraged, commanded St. George to he laid xwa deep dungeon, vowing he flioukl never return there*out, unlefs it was to execution ; where now we muilleave our Englilh Champion, to relate the deeds of theother tix. And firft what befel St. Dennis of France.CHAP. III.IJovi Si. Dmtiis •was trensfermed into a hart ly enchant-cd mulberries, end haw he rtccvcrtd lis Jhcpe, and putan md to tie enchantment af Eglantine the King's Daugh¬ter af Thfjjaly.SAINT Dennis the worthy Champion of France,after he parted from the other fix Champions atthe brazen pillar, travelled till he came Into the de-fart country cf Theffaly, inhabited only by wild beafts,where being aimeft fasiifiied with hunger, he chancedto-OF CHRISTENDOM. 7i to feed upon the berries of a mulberry-tree, which be¬ing enchanted by magic art, is an initant transformedihis body into the likenefs of a hart (only his natural■ I ijreafon remained) in which condition he remained aj long time bewailing his misfortune, till one day (had¬ing himfelt under the leaves of that luckiefs tree, heheard a hollow voice from the trunk, thereof breathei forth thefe words, “ Worthy Champion of France,; jknow, that inis tree proceeds from fair Eglantine, the1 King’s Daughter of 'Fhefidly, who for my pride was1 'transformed into this mulberry-tree; feven years thoui imuft continue in the fhape of a hart, when thou (halt bei Ireftored by eating of rotes, which being done, cut down: this tree, and thereby (hall the enchantment be ended.”. At the end of which prefixed time, his horfe, who. ,had a long time left him, brought two rofes in his: !teeth, which St. Dennis took and ate, and immediate¬ly fell into a deep deep, and upon his awaking, he. found himfelf returned again to his former fhape, forwhich he returned thanks to God, and curioufly deck-> ed and trimmed his horfe for his worthy fervice. Then• staking his fword in hand,'proceeded to finifh the en¬chantment, and with one blow cut in funder the tree,; from which iffutd a mod beautiful darafel, of fuch anangelical form, as fired the French Champion’s heartwith affeaion to her, and after fome parleys of love:' pan betwixt them, they plighted their faiths to each o-; ther, and then travelled together to her father’s court,who received them with unfpeakable joy and comfort ;where we will leave this Champion of France to relatewhat happened to St. James the Champion of Spain.CHAP. IV.■Hnw St. James the Champion of Spain, lilled a zvild hoarin India: hoza, for the Ckriflian religion, he 'ivouldhave been Jhol to death; and ho -jj he Jloli away theKing's Daughter.THE renowned Spanifh Champion, in his p.rogrefsin feeking out adventures, after many worthyaids8 SEVEN CHAMPIONSa&8 by him atchieved, came to the magnificent cityof Jerufalem, juft at fuch a time as Nebuz’arad, theKing thereof was going out on a roya-’ hunting, hav¬ing made proclamation, That whofoever flew the firftwild beaft in the fortft, Ihould have in reward a cor-ilet of fteel worth a thoufand ihekels of filver.Thirft of honour, and hope of gain, the two fpursthat prick men forward to worthy enterprizes, caufedSt. James to join himfelf to this honourable company,yea, to outgo them in noble refolutions; for fcouringover the plain before the hunters, he came into a fpa-cious foreft, where his valour quickly had an objecft towork upon, being a mighty wild boar, lying before hiswnoffy den, of fuch a wonderful bignefs and proportion,as is almoft incredible to declare, but the magnanimousChampion St. James, nothing daunted, couragiouflyfet upon him, dealirg fuch blows with his keen falchionthat ere the reft of the company came in, he overcamethat monftrous boar, cutting off his head, and prefent-Ing it to the king of Jerufalero, who accordingly gavehim the reward promifed : but, having intelligence im¬mediately, that he was a Spanilh Chriftian, his mindwas altered, that immediately he condemned him todie ; yet, for his good fervice in killing the boar, gavehim leave to chnfe his own death. St. James feeing itwould be no otherwife, defired to be bound to a pinetree, and, after an hour’s refpite to make his peacewith heaven, to be fbot to death by a true virgin.But, when the fame came to be put in execution, notone mat’d could be found that would undertake it :whereupon the King commanded that lots fhould becalf, which fell upon his own daughter, the beauteousCelsftine, whofe heart was already bred with the loveof the heroic champion ; and, therefore, on her bareknees, earnfftly begged his life of her father, whichw'ith much ado, he granted, but for ever banilhed himthe land, and departing a little fpace, out of the lovehe bore to Celeftine, who had preferved his life, Ijeventured again, difcoloming his face and hands, andremaining dumb, that he might not be known, at lallgotO F C H R I S T E N D O M. 9■ got an opportunity to difcover himfelf, and obtainingiher confcnt to go along with him in the dead time ofthe night, mounted her on kis {teed (which he ihoed'backward to prevent purfuit) and after many dangers,^narrowly efcaped, at laft they happily arrived in Spain.CHAP. V.The adventures of St. Anthony, St. Andrew, and St.Patrick, the Champions of Italy, Scotland and Ireland.1 rT’1 HE noble Champion, St. Anthony of Italy hav-X ing (after leaving the other fix Champions) tra¬velled over many hills and dales, woods and forelts,:came at lalt into the country of Thrace, where, upon(the top of an high mountain, ftood an impregnable'caftle, wherein lived a terrible Giant, named Blonde-ron, that had over the principal gate of his caltie,thefe verfes written:What Champion to this Caftle doth repair,|i Here lives a Giant bold within this place,Who pris’ners keeps feven virgins chafte and fair,(Daughters to the noble King of Thrace.All thefe who with this Giant fierce will fight.Shall have a Virgin’s prayers day and night.Thirft of glory and honourable renewn, fo fired theilbreaftof the noble Champion, that he thundered at the■igate with the pummel of his fword as loud as the cy-ijclops when they formed the armour of Achilles; theiiGiant being roufed at this terrible noife, came runningout of the gate with a great oak-tree fiouriftring abouthis head, intending with one blow, to crufir in piecesth? bones of St. Anthony for difturbing him of hisrepofe, but the nimble knight fo avoided his ftrokes,by {kipping continually o-nt of his reach, that the Gi-apt,!>o SEVEN CHAMPIONS■ant, in a (hort fpace grew weary with brandifhing faiunweildy a weapon, which when St. Anthony per¬ceived he lightly leaped to him, and with one blowbrought the Giant upon his knees, which being fe-conded with another of mighty force, bere«ved the Gi--ant of his life, fending his foul unto the dark regions*there to inhabit with grim Pinto; then, thanking God.for his vi&ory, he entered the cable, where he waskindly entertained by Rofaiinda, ore of the ThracianKing’s Daughters ; (he (hewed him all the rarities of;the cable, and amonglt the red, fix filver fwans idvim-ming on a great pond of water, which were the etherfix Daughters'of the King of Thrace, whofe chaftitiesthe ludful Giaat attempting to violate, the kinder def-tinies fin commiferatioa) transformed them into milk*white-fwsns, to fignify their chatlities were withoutfpot or biemifh.After fome ihort repofe to refrefh himfelf, St. An¬thony with Rofaiinda potted to the Thracian court*where they were kindly entertained; but the King hear¬ing of his daughte^3, transformation, with great griefdeparted to the cable, refolving there to fpend bis dayswith invocating his country-gods, to reltore his daugh¬ters to their fhapes: thereupon St. Anthony', notwilling to fpend his days in eafe and luxury, refolvedprivately to depart from thence, which being madeknown to Rofaiinda, fine alfo fecretiy departed with him.In the mead time, the famous Champion, St. Andrewof Scttland, having paffed through many dangers in ?vale of walking fpirits, came wandering alio into thiicountry of Thrace, fortune guiding his ileps to thefame caftle wherein the Thracian King was worfhip-ping his heathen-gods, which he perceiving, and know'iug the caufe of his great idolatry, St. Andrew, like atrue Chriftian Champion, taught him the worfiiip 01the living God : which, when they had rightly Per'formed, on a hidden the milk-white-fwans were chan-||ged into the fhape of beautiful ladies, to the great joysof nil prefent: For St. Andrew, having knowledge itljAas St. Anthony that had (lain the great BlanderonanqlOF CHRISTENDOM. irinci how he was departed with the lady Rofalinda, he■ :'ecretly hole away from the Thracian King, to feek,3t. Anthony whom he greatly longed to fee, and thei King’s Daughters underftanding he was gone, travel¬led after him, whofe fudden departure caufed great■forrow throughout all Thrace.The fix ladies having travelled many a weary mile,i n a fruitlefs fearch after St. Andrew, came at laft toin uninhabited wiidernefs, fave only with beads and; "ava^ monfters, where they were furprized by thirtyi oloody fatyrs, that -haftled them by the hair of theirreads, regardlefs of their (houts and loud foundingnutcries, intending to have ravifiied them of their vir¬gin honours, but heaven (that always favours tlie vir¬tuous) had fo ordered it, that St. Patrick, that mag¬nanimous Irifii Champion, after many heroic adlionsoy him performed, was, at the fame inftant, alfo inhe defart place, who beholding the inhumanity ofi hofc favage creatures, couragioufiy fet upon them, andHsut them to flight, delivering thereby thofe moil ex¬cellent princeffes from death, or what they accountedi worfe than death, the fpoiling of their virginities, whoi'after fome paufe of time, being a little corne to them-ifelves, related to St. Patrick the occafion of their jour-iJiey, with an account of the atchievements both of St,• Anthsny and St. Andrew, as you heard before in thebeginning of this chapter, St. Patrick comforted theai: the befl: he could ; like a noble knight undertook to:be their condu&or in their undertakings, having him-ilfelf a mind to behold thofe magnanimous Knights who■ formerly had been his companions in the cave of Kal-iby, in which journeys we will for a while leave themtill we relate the adfions of the feventh and lalt Cham¬pion St. David of Wales.CHAP.12S E V E N C H A M P I 0 N SCHAP. VI.Hor<> St. David the Ch&Mplon of Wales, by art of magiJlept feven years in the enchanted garden of Ormond Athe Necromancer, and St. George efcoped cut of prfon it: Per ft a, end redeemed the Champion of Wales frohis enchantment.WE come next to fpeak of that magnanimousHdro, St. David of Wales, whole valiant exploit!and heroic performances were nothing inferior to tolreft of the fix Champions, making the name of Chriiltendom famous in thofe nations that acknowledge th|true God: efpfcir lly his actions in the Tartarian courare not to be paffed over in iilence, where his prowe fegained him the honour to become the Emperor’s Chan Jpion. But, upon a folemn feaft-day, whereupon werikept royal tilts and tournaments in honour of the Erperor’s birth, it was St. David’s unlucky fortune tlkill the count Palatine, being heir apparent to the Taijffarian crown, at which the Emperor was fo incenfe<lthat he would have (lain him prefendy, but that in hcl)i)our he-ccnld not do it: Whereupon he bethouglfhimfelf of a clear conveyance, which was to the c:|jchanted garden upon the confines of that country, kepiby a famo'us Necromr.ncer, named Ormondinc, binciing hum by the oath of knighthood, to bring him frotlthence 'the Necromancer’s head : all which St. DaviiBpromifed faithfully to perform, and, with an undauntled courage, went to the plate, where at the entranclin was a rock of (tone, in which was enclofed a moilrich (word, nothing appeared outwardly but the hilunabout the pummel thereof, in letters of gold, was thiiljengraven:This fvord cannot be pulled forth,But by a Knight out of the North.St. David verily imagining himfelf to be that kniglof the north, ccurageoufly aflfcyed to pull it fortrjjhiOF CHRISTENDOM. 13but no fooner was his hand on the hilt, but his fenfeswere oppreft with a fomniferous fleep, that it was im-pofiible for him to awake till the enchantment was fi-. nilhed, which afterwards was performed by St. George,whofe exploits we now come to relate.Seven times had the world’s bright eye run his an¬nual courfe thro’ the twelve figns of the Zodiac, finceSt. George was confined in that nafly Perfian prifon,by the treachery of the King of Morocco, when bychance ftnmbling upon a bar of iron, he made fuch ufcof it, that with continual labour he diu-fed himfelf apsifage through ground ; till, in the dead time of thenight, he afcended juft iu the middle of the Sultan’scourt : time and place thus favouring his defigns, heceafed not to lend his affifting arms, to work out thereft ; for, hearing fome grooms in the Sultan’s liable,preparing their horfes to go on hunting the next day,he took the bar of iron and killed them all: which be¬ing done, he J.ook the ftrongeft gelding, and richeft ca-parifons, wherewith he bravely furnifhed himfelf, then,with chalk upon a black marble pillar, he thus wrote,Sultan, farewel, for George is fled,Thy fteed is loft, thy grooms are dead.So fettir.g forward towards the gate, he thus fa-lutes the porter, ‘ Porter, open the gates with fpeed,‘ for George of England is efcaped out of prifon, and4 hath murdered all the Sultan’s grooms, which has‘ alarmed the whole court.’ The porter, ignorant ofwhat bad happened, opened the gate for St. George,who, with a nimble pace, never relied till he was with¬in the confines of Greece, beyond the reach of the Per-liar. horfemen, who in vain ptirfued after. But now,hunger again opprefled him as (harp as imprifonmentdid before, fo that feveral days his hoife and hefared alike, being forced to eat the grafs of the field,and to drink the water of the running ftreams ; at lafthe efpied a caftle not far off, whether he directed hisweary Heps, defiring of a lady who Hood looking overthei4 SEVEN CHAMPIONSthe walls, a meal of meat to rc-leave a knight almoftfamifhed ; but fhe with a curfed frown, bid him be¬gone, or elfe his life mufl; pay for his prefumption, herlord being a mighty Giant, that, with crulhed bones,did recompenfe the faucinefs of fuch intruders. Now,faith St. George, by the honour'of my knighthood,here wi!l I obtain my dinner, or elfe become food forcrows by his accurfed hand. The lidy, abalh’d at thefewords, gave information to the Giant, who immediate¬ly came forth, of fuch a monftrous and deformed pro¬portion, that he would have daunted a courageousknight; tho’ ftrong and luftful for an encounter; yetGeorge (tho* much enfeebled by hunger) with a mag¬nanimous refolution fet upon him, and notwithltand-ing the Giant was armed with a mighty bar of iron,the Chriftian Champion dealt him fuch blows, that, infine, the Giant was forced to furrender his life, and thecommand of the caftle into the hands of St. George.St. George having now finiihed his work, went intothe caftle to receive his wages, viz. his dinner whichhe had earned, but for fear the lady fbould minglepoifon in his food, he made her firil to tafte of everydifh, and, having ftaid fome time to refrefti himfelfand his horfe, he left the caftle in keeping of the lady,and went on in purfuit of his travels, puffing throughthe reft of Greece and Phrygia, until he came unto theconfines of Tartary, to the enchanted garden of Or-mondine, where he efpied a fword enclofed into the en¬chanted rock, when he no fooner put his hand into thehilt, than he drew it out with much eafe, then imme¬diately the heavens were overcaft with a thick dark-nefs, and the earth (hook and rumbled like mightypeals of thunder, the winds blew fo impetuoufiy thatItrong oaks were rent in pieces by the fame, and thenthe enchanted garden vanifhed away, and the Championof Wales awaked out of his fleep, where he had Iainfor feven years. The Necromancer after he had brieflydeclared his forepaft: life to St. George, gave a moilterrible groan and died; whofe head, with the enchant¬ed fword, the Englifh Champion gave to St. David,toOF CHRISTENDOM. ijto carry to the Tartarian Court, according to lua pro*mife, vvhilil he himfelf travelled towards Barbary,where our mule will now attend him.CHAP. VII.How St. George arrived at Tripoli in Barbary, fromwhence he Jlole away Sabrine the King of Egypt'sDaughter from the black-a-moor King, and how [he wasknown to be a pure virgin by the means of two lions.THE noble St. George having, after many wearyHeps got to the kingdom of Barbary, he thoughtit vain to attempt upon ALmiJor by force of arms, fee¬ing he was at tended by fo many worthy knights andyet defiring above all things, to have a tight of his be¬loved Sabrine, for whole fake he had endured fo longimprifonment; therefore he refolved to patch out thelion’s ikin with the fox’s tail, and gain by policy whathe could not gain by force; to this end he exchangedhi) horfe, armour and furniture with a palmer for hisgown, Haft and fcrip, and fo accoutred, went direifllyto the court, where he beheld a number of palmers,waiting in the gate for alms, which the queen herfelfin perfon daily bellowed, in remembrance of the Eng-glilh Champion ; in diftributing of which, when fhe ef-pied this llrange palmar, remembering how he refem-bled the princely countenance of St. George, Hie tookhim by the hand and led him afide from all the com¬pany, where he foon made himfelf known to her, whowept for joy of finding hire whom (he never expedledto fee again ; and after forue (hort difeourfe of her health-and walfare, fne related to him, how her father hadforced her to marry Alraidor againll her will, but tho*outwardly Ihc was linked to him, yet none but St.George enjoyed her heart, for whofe love fne had hi¬therto continued a pure virgin, by virtue of a goldenchain fteeped in tyger’s blood, which Hie wore feventimes doubled about her neck. Then delivered Jhe toturn«16 SEVEN CHAMPIONShim, his horfe and fsvord with which he had formerlyencountered the burning dragon. And now, my George,quoth file, nothing remains but to free me from thepower of my forced hufband, which opportunity in¬vites us unto; he having with the whole court rodeout a hunting, St. George willingly condefcended toher motion, fealing the fame with as fweet a kifs as e-ver Leander bellowed on Hero: and having gotten thegood will of an eunuch to go along with them, ftor-ing themfelves with provifions, being gallantly mount¬ed, they periled away with all the fpeed they couldmake, palling through divers woods, defarts and un¬known places, to efcape the purfuit of thofe whom theblack-a-moor king would fend after them.Having travelled thus for fome few days together, atlad the beautiful Sabrine began to faint with hunger,which made St. George to leave her under the fhadeof a, broad fpreading oak, accompanied with theeunuch, while he went out in purfuit of fome prey, tofatisfy their craving appetite ; fo it was his fortune tokill a deer, which, having cut out with his keen edgedfword, he brought a haunch thereof along with him,to prefent to his beloved lady ; but, a fad accidenthappened in his abfence, for two hungry lions rangingabout for prey, came direftly to the oaken-tree, wherethefe two weary travellers were repofing themfelves,who with angry mood, feiaetf upon the eunuch, andfoon buried him in their hungry entrails, then theytore his Heed in pieces. Sabrine all the while behold¬ing it, expected herfelf to be the next morfel to allaytheir hunger: but, quite foreign to her expedlion,with fawning geftures they came unto her, and laidtheir heads in her tender lap, and there quietly fellfall afieep, at which time St. George returned, who,Itanding a while in amaze what to do, at lall he threwdown his venifon, and with his trufty fword Afcalon,foon difpatched both the lions. Now Sabrine, faith he,I have fufficient proof of thy true virginity, the natureof thefe beads being fuch, that they will bow theirheads to nose, but fuch as have kept their chaftuiesOF CHRISTENDOM. 17inviolable. Therefore, divine Paragon, nature’* won¬der, and loves abfttaft, doubt not, but thy fame (hallrefound for love and chaftity, fo far as Phoebus dartshis golden rays.Then art (Ted he the venifon for her which he hadbrought, and having retrefhed themfelves, they fet for¬ward on their wonted travels, till they came into thecountry of Greece, where they foon had news of greattilts and tournaments fuddenly to be held at the Em¬peror’s court, in honour cf his royal nuptials with theEmperor of China’s daughter; the fame whereof hadfummoned hither all the moft approved and magna¬nimous heroes, both in Europe, Ada, and Africa, totry their man-hood, and, by noble exercifes of arms, tomount up into honour’s throne, among the reft, thefeven Champions of Chriftendom arrived there un¬known to each other, of whofe valiant a£s, to theircountry’s honour, we come now to declare.■  CHAP. VIII.Ha'll’ the feven Champions performed valiant exploits inthe Grecian court} <where, having intelligence of thegreat preparations that were made by the pagans, eve¬ry Champion returned into his own country, for forcesto ivithjland them.INfinite was the number of the knights affcmbled inthe Grecian court, to adventure their chance infort line’s lottery for the purchafing of renown, butthe feven Champions attained to fuch favour with theGrecian Emperor, that he appointed them to be hisown peculiar Champions againft all comers, each hiafeveral day, feven days together, the appointed time forholding the jufts. To relate all their feveral adven¬tures, how they foiled each one that came againft them,would take too much time for our intended brevity jlet it fuffice to know', that their prowefs was fo highlyadmired by the Emperor, as (in reward of their valour)hei8 SEVEN CHAMPIONShe befanved nncn them a golden tree with feven branch¬es, in the dividing whereof they came to be known un¬to each other, which fo rejoiced their hearts, that theyaccounted that day as fortunate unto them as when hrftthey were delivered frem the thraldom of the enchant-refs Kathy. But they had not long enjoyed the fruitionof each other’s company,.when there arrived at the Em¬peror’s court, a hundred heralds, from a hundred feve-ral countries, which by the command of their princes,proclaimed war againfl all Chriifendoin in thefe words:“ Wc the moft pulfi'ant Monarchs of Afia, and Afri¬ca, by a general confent of us all, proclaim open war,fire and fword, with utter deftrudtion to all the coun¬tries and kingdoms of Chriftendom,'in a juft reveageagainft them for the injuries fultained by their fevenChampions, defiring all the followers of Mahomet,Termagant and Apollo, in this our determination,to join with us and take our parts.”The Grecian Emperor being alfo a Pagan, afibciatedwith them, giving commandment, to multer up thegreateft forces his land could afford. All which, whenthe feven champions uuderftood, to prevent their bloodypurpofes, after due confideratidn had amor.gft. them-felves, each one with his betrothed lady departed hemeto his own country, there to raife fore’es to withilandthe common enemy: St. George into England, St. Den¬nis into Frar.ee, St. James into Spain, St. Anthony in¬to Italy, St. Andrew into Scotland, St. Patrick intoIreland, and St. David into Wales: The prcfpebl ofwhofe delightful habitations they had net beheld inmany years before ; where they were mod royally en¬tertained liccording unto their own heart’s defire, eachfeveral Prince in tiis common caufe, contributing theutmod afiidance lie could make, appointing the bay ofPortugal for their great rendezvous ; and ail with onegeneral confent, nominating St. George to be their ge- !r.eral, whofe valiant expioits and honourable peiform-ances, (hail be difeourfed cf in the following chapterCHAP.OF CHRISTENDOM.*9CHAP. IX.Hothe /even Champions of Chrijlendotn arrived, withad their troops, ir. the bay of Portugal, where St.George, made an oration to his foldiers. The dffentionin the Pagan army ; With other things that happened.AT the appointed time, the Chriltian Champions,with each one a well approved army, met in thebay of Portugal, the number of which joined together,was about live hundred thoufand; unto whonj St.George, their appointed general, made the followingOration :“ Fellow foldiers and kind country-men, whofe va¬lour the world admires and dreads, we are now goinginto the field of honour, and to the work of man-hood:the time is now, at hand we have long-looked andprayed for, and your work the nobleft in the world:pour forth, therefore, your utmoft forces, that ages(to come may know what the lance, the ax, the fwordand the bow, can do in the hand of the valiant: fearnot the numerous force of our enemies, wbefe num¬ber is rather a burthen than an advantage unto them :: but know, your caufe is the bell, the defence of theChriftian religion, and your native countries, whichi will oppofe all their vaft numbers. Whofoever there-i fore defires riches, honours and rewards, know, thatthey are all to be gotten by the overthrow of thofemifereants, who will fly before y»ur valour, as docksof fheep before the greedy wolf.”This foldier-iike oration put fuch courage into thebreafts of the foldiers, that, with a general voice, theycried out, ‘ To arms, to arms, with the magnanimousChampion St. George of England,’ in which gallantrefolution we will leave them for a while, to relatewhat happened in the army of the Pagans, who, likegrafiioppers overfpreading a country, met in the landof Hungary, in fuch multitudes, that had not God fruf-trated their intentions, the Chriftian army had been buta morfel, fcarce fuftcient for them for one meal; byhis20SEVEN CHAMPIONSliis invincible power, he confounded them in their owipradiices ; for being about to eledb a general, each na-tion was cbftinate to have their king the perfon, thatfhould command in chief; and fo eager were they inthefe refolutions, that from words they fell to blows,which ended at lait in a moil dreadful fight againfteach other, till the ground was changed from a ver¬dant green to a purple hue, and each place flrewedwith the carcafes of dead bodies. Here you might feea head new lopt off fiom the Ihculders, with a gaipingmouth, complaining as it were for his reparation iromthe reft of its body : There lay an arm with a handgrafping a fword, as if it would fight yet in its body’saeftnce. In another place you might behold one whowould run away from danger, hut that his legs are foentangled in his fellow’s guts he could not ftir; here laythe brains of one, there another with his mouth andjaws cut away, fo that he could not complain of his--own mil-fortunes. In fine, finch horror and deftruclionwas amongft them, as would make the heart of an e-nemy to lelent. Thofe that remained, after this bloodyencounter, withdrew therr.felves into their own coun¬tries, curling the time that ever they undertook fo un¬lucky an enterprize, and confefling it was vain for themto attempt any thing agaijsft the Chriftian’s God.It was not long ere the news of this bloody encoun¬ter came to the ears of St. George, and the reft of theChriftian Champions; who having received the intelli¬gence foon raifed their arriiie,s and marched diredtly tO'Barbary, againft the bloody king of Morocco, to chaf-tife his treachery committed againft the moil renownedEnglish Champion.CHAP. X."The terrible battle between the Ckrtfiians and Meters inBarbary, the •erect overthrow of the Pagans, and howAhnidor the Black King of Morocco, was boiled to deathin a brazen caldron of lend and brimjione.THE Chriflian army under the conduft of the mag¬nanimous Engjilh Champion, St. George, beingarrivedOF CHRISTENDOM. 21larrived in Barbary, and, with thiir victorious arms,I turning all into ruin wherefoever they came, the noifei thereof made Almidor’s guilty confcience to quake, and’thereupon he raifed a mighty hoft to withftand them,who with great courage fell upon the Chriftians, fo’’that between them enfueci a moll terrible battle, eachTide driving to outdo the other in victorious exploits;jjto. purchafe renown; the Moors in defence of theirjcountty, their wives and children. Three days togetherI idid this bloody conflict: hold, the night fcarce giving: ithem time to breath in, hut before the fun began his: idiurnal race, they returned their drength to a more| (eager encounter; horror, bloodlhed and amazement: was on their fide, and death rode triumphant thro’ thewhole hod; but fhe valiant St. George (whofe courage1 was never wanting at all elfays) being minded to puton end to the fight, fingled out the Morocco King, bc-i jtwixt whom and the Englifli Champion was a long andi dangerous encounter; but Admidor, not able to with-j.'dand the mighty puiffance of St. George, was forcedJco yield himfelf to his mercy, and became his prifoner,iwhich the Moots feeing, prefently would have fled to thechief city, but the Chridians intercepting them, madei|amocgd them fuch a daughter, that not one of a hun¬dred efcaped to tell the fad difader of their misfortunes.The Chridian army then marched direftly to Tri¬poly, canyi'ng along with them the wicked Almidorto whom (notwithdanding his evil deferts) upon aipromife of forfaking his heathen-gods, and to turn tobe a Chridian, mercy was proffered, which refuiing,swith direful execrations againd the Chridian religion,ae was boiled to death in a brazen caldron filled withijiead and brimdone ; at the fight of whofe death, aslivell pagans as Chridians, with a loud voice cried out,Ir Long live St. George, the vidtorious Champion ofEngland, who, by his valiant prowefs, hath freed Car¬bary from their miferable thraldom.”Hereupon the Mcrocco Peers, with bended knees,:ame to St. George; proffering unto him the imperialcrown of Barbary, and promifing to be chridened inthe■22 SEVEN CPIAMPIONSthe Chnilian faith,; ah which was prefently perform;-ed, by placing the crown upon his head, and aboliHi-ing Mahometaniftn with all the fuperftitious rites ofthat falfe prophet; whereupon a great alteration fud-denly enfued, Pagan temples were pulled down, and aChriitian church ere&ed: inftead of a tyrannical go¬vernment, good and wholefome laws were ordained:peace and plenty flonrilhed every where, and a gene¬ral rejoicing was thfflughout the whole kingdom.But the heroic Champions, not minding to fpend theirJtime in the :dle bovver of peace, and to let their armourhang rutting on the wall, when fo much aftion was tobe done in the world ; they therefore fummoned theirfokliers to re-affume their courage, and to put themrfelves in an equipage for war. St. George leaving thegovernment of the land, in his abfence, to four of the'principal Peers of Morocco; the whole army marched di-redlly to Egypt againtl K. Ptolemy, who had confederat¬ed with Almidor for fending St. George into Periia..—   CHAP. XLHozo the Chrijllans arrived in Egypt, and what happen*ed to them there. The tragedy of the Earl of Coven'try. How the Egyptian king broke his ne(k> and hoiLSt. George redeemed his Lady from being burnt to deathat a flake.THE (even Champions of Chritlcndom, with thenvictorious army, being arrived in Egypt, thejfuppofed prefently to have met armed troops to withHand them ; but, contrary to there expectation, thesfind both cities, towns and villages uninhabited ; thiterror of their coming ftriking fuch an amazement t«the inhabitants, that they hid themfelves in the mollobfcure olaceifthey could find: wherefore they marched to king Ptolemy’s court, intending firlt to bur: tilthat, and then afterwards the reft of the city into cinders. But whiHt they were in thcfe thoughts and bein.O F C H R I S T E N D O M. 23ing come rear thereto, they were met by Ptolemy andhis chiefePc Peer*, all in mourning, bearing broken1 weapons, (hivered lances, and torn ancients, with ma-I ny thoufands of women and children wearing cypfefsJ leaves about their heads, all with one voice crying for1; mercy, and to fpare their country from utter ruin,; king Ptolemy the foremoft them all, addrefling him-iSfelf tx> the Chriftian Champions, in thefe words:“ Moft noble Knights and renowned Champions,\ whofe names are inrolled in the book of fame, let my; grey hairs move you to y'ty, and my bended knees thatnever bowed to any till now, caufe compaflion in you:but if no mercy be referved for me, let me plead forpity for my poor commons, who are altogether igno¬rant of the injuries offered to the Englifh Champi-on,occalioned by the treachery of that wicked Almidorworking upon my eafy nature: O let me fall a facrifloe■ for their fafety, and ftain net your hands in their guilt-1 lefs blood, but fpare them and us, and we (hall not onlybecome your fervants, but forfake the belief of our falfei prophets, and henceforth believe in the Chriitians,God.,,This forrowful lamentation and requeft of king Pto¬lemy, made the heart of the Englifh Champion to re¬lent, fo that he not only granted mercy to the wholedand, but alfo life to king Ptolemy upon the conditions‘ before promifed; which gracious grant was fo welcomeiboth to King and Commons, that all on a fudden thei ipeople returned from their lurking places to their for¬mer habitations. Bone-fires were made in everyplace,the bells rang day and night, and fo much banquet¬ing, dancing and mafquing was ufed, as exceeded thatIwhich the Trojans ma^e, when Paris returned from•Greece, with the conquefl of the Spartan Queen,j But this fun-(hinc weather was foon overfhadowedwith a cloud of forrow ; for, in the interim of all their'joy, there arrived at the court an Englifh knight, whothus delivered himfelf to St. George.“ Renowned Champion of England, if ever you ex-'pe£t to fee your beloved lady again, make all the hafteyou can unto her, who is adjudged to be burned todeath24 S E V E N C H A M P I O N S, &c.death at a ftake, for murdering the Earl of Coventry;who, by gifts, entreaties, and allurements, fought tobetray her of her honour, and by luftful ads to ilainher name with infamy, which your virtuous lady al- ,ways withftood : but at lail, he finding her alone, au4renewing his fuit, with threatening of force upon herdenial: die, with kind words, lulled him afleep, andthen Iheathed his own poinard in his breaft, which ona fudden bereaved him of life: for which fad (he iscondemned to die the death aforefaid : yet this favouris granted her, that if in two years fpace, a Championbe found, that for her fake will venture his life; ifhe overcome the challenger, her life (hall be faved, butif not, then (he mud die.”Thefe words ftruck a wonderful aftonifhment and-forrovv to all that heard them, efpecially to King Pto*lemy, who, in a defperate mood, cad himfelf from thetop of a high pinnacle, and broke his neck. Where-1noon St. George was immediately proclaimed, and foonafter crowned king of Egypt; and then, leaving theChridian Champions, he went into England, where hecombated with the Baron of Cheder, who was Cham¬pion againd the Lady Sabrine, whom he overcame inbattle, to the great joy of the Englifii Knight and hisbeloved Sabrine, with whom he afterwards fpent hislife, in much joy and felicity.FINIS.- — 1 — ——BBESB 'I    —-H|GLASGOW,PRJNTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON, (No. xo.)Saltmarkct, TocS.