SPRIG OF SHILELAH,iril soon hae a Wife o’ my ain,DOCTOR MONRO.AND,THEEDINBURGHfRiNTl p FUR THEfglY,The Sf?;7g qfShitcla, and Shamrock SO' green.O Love is the sau! of a neat Irishman,He loves all the loveiy, loves' all that he can,With his Sprig ot Shilcla and Shamrock :green.His heart is good-humour'd ’tis honest arsound,No malice or hatred is there to be found: JHe courts and he marrie?, he drinks and I;fi8hts’'1 is love, all for love, for in that lie delights, IWith his* sprig of Shilela and. Shamrock tWho Las e'er had the luck to see iDennv-broc: fair,,. y; : 'An Irishman nil in his glory is there,With his.Sprig, •&<;.With clothes spick . and span new, withefle’er a specfeV "A neat Barcelona tied round his neat neck*, jjHe goes to a tent and he spends half a-crcv4jHe meets with his friend, and for love knctfihim down,With his Sprig,* &c.3' At evening returning, as homeward he goes,His heart soft with whisky, his head soft withblows.From a Sprig, kc.He meets with his Shelah, who blushing a smileCries get ye gone Pat, yet consents all the while.To the priest they soon go, and nine monthsafter thatA fine baby cries, how d’ye do father Pat,t With your Sprig, &c.Bless the country, say I, that gave Patrick hisbirth,Bless the land of the oak, and its neighbouring; Where grows the Shiiela, &c.May the sons of the Thames, the Tweed, \ndj the Shannon,.Druo the foes that dare land in our confines a'eannon,»Jmt*ed and happy at loyalty’s shrine,May the rose and the Thistle long flourish andtwineRound the sprig of Shilela and Shamrock so| green.II’LL SOON HAE A WIFE 0‘ MY AIN.FR AE Clyde to the banks/©f. Sweet Earn,| 1 ve travell’d fu’ mdrty Jang, mile.But thought? o’ my dearest lass Annie,The wearisome hours did beguile.The happy, wae night that we parted,She vow’d she would constant remain;My heart-strings a’ dirl’d wi’ fondness!I kiss, and I kiss’d her again.‘Tis no cause her cheeks are like roses,Nor yet for her dark rollin’ e’e,Tis no for her sweet comely features.These charms are naething to me.The stoi-ins of life may »opn blast them,Or sickness make them fade away;But virtue,- when fix’d in the bosom,’Will flourish, and rfever decay.N?/' ianger I’ll spend a’ my siller,Nae lunger I’ll-now ly my lane;yNae langer J’il hunt'after hizzies,I’ll soon ha'e a wife «’ my ain.For mony wild foot I ha’e wander’dAnd mony lang night spent in vain,Wi’ drinkin’ and dancin’, and couttin’,But I’ll soon ha e a wife o’ my ain.iler mither’s ay flytiu’, and roarin’,^ } red you tak tent o’ that chid;tie’ll no be that canny to live wi’Fle’il ne’er be like douse Geordy Steel.Me‘s copried wie o’ermeny lasses;To 'slight them he thinks it gude fun;He’ll mak’ bat a sober ha'f-marrow.Ye’!! best rue before you be bound.The? Geordy be laird of a house,And'brags o’ his kye and his ^elf, -Tho’ warld’s gear l be right scant o\A fig for’t as lung’s I’ve my health:It ance l werekippi*d wi’ Annie,She’ll seldom ha’e cause to complain/We’ll jog on through life ay right canny,-When £ get a wife oi my ain.But if that my Annie prove faithless,And marry before 1 return,1‘U no like a cuif greet about her.Nor yet for ae minute will mourn;Awa‘straight to some ither beauty,Without loss of time 1 will hie.And shew to the lasses I‘m careless.Unless they're as willin1 as I.DOCTOR MONRO.DEAR Doctor, be clever, and fling off yourbeaver, [so slow,. Come bleed me, and blister me, don’t beI'm sick, I'm exhausted, my schemes they areblasted, [ro.And all driven heels o'er-head, Doctor Mon-Be patient, dear fellow, you foster you- fever-Pray what‘s the misfortune that bothers you^Doctor; l‘m ruin'd? I'm ruin'd for-everlMy lass has forsaken me, Doctor Monro.I meant to hare married, and tasted the plea-T, Sures’ , ‘ [flow;xhe sweets, the enjoyments, in wedlock thatliut she's ta'en another, and broken my mea¬sures, 1And fairly confounded *re, Doctor Monro.I'll bleed and I'll blister yoy, over and over;'Ml master your malady ere that 1 go:But raise up your head from below the bedcover,And give some attention to Doctor Monro.,If Chirsty had wed you, she would have misledyou, [some young beau.__ And laugh'd at your love with some hand-Der conduct will prove it; but "hew would youloveit? [Monro.“1 soon would hare lam'd her, dearDectorEach year brings a pretty young son, or adaughter: ‘ [know?Perhaps you're the father, but how shall youYou Imgg them—her gallant is bursting withlaughter—That thought** like to murder me, DoctorMonro.■he bovs cost you many a penny and shilling;f Yt)u breed'theni with pleasure, with trouble,^ . and woe;sBut one turns a ra^e, and iihdther a villain.—My heart could not bear it, dear DoctorMonro.fhe lasses are confiely, and dear to your bosom;,But virtue and. beauty has many a foe!_ think ■what jnay‘Happen-, just nipt in theirblossom!—Ah! merciful Heaven! cease, Doctor MonroDear Doctor, 1‘11 thank you to hand me mybreeches- [go;l‘m better; I‘ll drink with you ere that youl‘ll nevermore sicken for women or riches.But love my relations and Doctor Monfo.il plainly perceive, were 1 wedded to Christy,My peace and rny pleasures 1 needs niujfeforego. [thirsty;He still lives a bachelor; drinks when lie'sAnd sings like a lark, and loves Doctor;Monro,8THE TEAROn beds of snow the moon beam slept,And chilly was the midnight gloom;When by the damp grave Helen wept;Sweet maid! it was her Linder’s tomb.A warm tear gush’d, the wintry airCoftgeai’d it as it flow’d away;All night it lay and ice-drop there;At morn it glitter’d in the jay.An soge) Wandering through his sphere;Who saw this bright, this frozen gem;To df\v-ey'd Pity brought the't$sr ;. And fix’d it on her diadem.