I HE 'TAX'D DOGSGARLAND.To which are added,The Maid of Primrofe-hill."Hap Mg with thy Petticoat,Stirling, Printed and Sold by C. Randall.** Jte .r ^ ^ ^ S’, >; - ^ - iK■yff -V- •<«*«*»’ **•? 1THETAX’D DOGS’ GARLAND.UPO N the road the other day,I chanc’d To overtake Sir,Two country-men upon the road,who great complaint-die make Sir.One of the two right mournful faid,oh I have you heard the news, Sir?A heavy tax is laid on dogs,which are of fo great uie, Sir.Six fhillin s now we ail muft pay,if that a aog we k^ep. ur.Poor pc pie cannot this afford,tho’ they fhoual >ofe the r (h ep, Sir.Pm feventv years or thereabout,my neighbour’s fixtv (ax Sir,lltt ne er faw the 'ikt of this,to lay on dogs a tax, Sir.Wow man I think, there’s mony w?.y,8,to clear the nattbu’s load , sir,'/V3Than to epprefs a poor man fo,and tax his very dog, -ir.This morning, or I came frae hame*I law three collies die, SirTheir owner’s coulr not pa' the t xtho’t had been but (hiilingo three Sir.0 if they had but come to me,or yet to Midge, my wife. Sir,This year's taxation we would pay’d,to lav’d their -.ollie s life.My heart was wae to fee the brutesflaare f\c uutimelv late. Sir,The country fore mult be pght poor,wtien they uptioic the Hate, S r.There s mnny dogs I frankly own,that* ultlefs for to keep, oir ;Bm country comes uletu* vft,for her-. mg of our ihetp, *ir.My collie is an unco heaft,and meixle tenfe he has. Sir,And when the Iheep ftrays o‘er far aff,he gi es them mony a chale. Sir1 canna want my collie dog,mair than meat to my wime, Sir ;4For turninpr eMher horfeor ncmt,he is a hunttr fine, Sir.He never hunts them bv the head,but ay Trips at their heels, ir;And gathers fafely a4 the flock,when running thro‘ the fields. Sir.Hefs careful or the houfe at night,and when that any ill, ir,Is likely for to come on me,ke barks bauh Loud and {brill. Sir.Were't not for him the robbets furewould take from me my eeir, Sir ;But collie gi es a lively b;-rk.when danger it is near, Sir,"At kirk or fair there‘s ne'er a dog,wi4 collie can compare, Sir^The other day. upon the road,he catch'd a running hare. Sir,I t's very right that ufelefs dogs,fliou.d pay a 1 »mfome tax. Sir;Each one ll.ould twenty {hillings pay,If collies mult pay fax. Sir.The happy time will yet arrive,i ^ope .he ame to fee. Su, .5When ufeleJs dogs wH all be bang'd,and collie dogs gae free. Sir.^ tit # § ^ ^ ^ m ^ 41THE HMD OF PRIMROSE-HILL*5 *1 ^WAS under Primrofe-hili there liv'd,i a fweet prttty maid,^ot Venus could give more delight,when you her charms furveyM.For the lillies fair, and the roles there,they did combine, and both entwine,To form a beauty rare.This one many fuitors had,but .reaued them with fcorn,Till William who could play and dance,came piping o'er the lawn;He lung fo iweet,^ was dren'd fo neat,that maidens fair, they did declare,fheir love for William great.Sweet maid of Prirnrofe-hill. he cry'd,1 come a wooing here,Then do uot you my love rejeef,nor treat me too fevere.For my heart fo true is fix d •nyoy,_ HI conltant be to only thee, ;1 hoa flower cf rofy hue.• ■. ' ; l6 ‘The maid {he £ave her head a tofs,reply‘d with fcornful air,I wonder that you can to me,your fruirleis Iov«. declare ;For fuitors great, in land eftats,have offer‘d me their bride to be.So you do come too late.Then William hung his head with grief,and laid poor girl, adieu,HI quit your charms h.r wars alarms,and glory llll purfue.For love Hull yield to Mars the field,the fife and drum, invite to come,1 11 poife the fpear and fhield.Then with a fmile (he call'd him back,andfaid dear Williaia itay,I did but jell to try your love,fo go not now away ;Then with a kils he leal d his blifs,Ihe did agree his bride 'o De,And nam‘d the h..ppy day,Then to the church he went With fwee' contentthe bells rang ad wish j ■‘y.Their hands were join d in iiymenks bands,their blcfs will never cloy :For they love all day, at night toy and piay,who 11 fo happy be, as he and ihe,|fpr them lives arc always May. ,a7$f-^ -IHAP ME WITH THY' PE rnCOAF.OBEIX. thy looks have kill'd my heart,I pa s the day in pain.When night returns 5. feel the fmart,and with for them in vaitT,I'm flarving in cold, while thou art war m:have pity and incline,And grant me for a hap that charm¬ing petticoat of thine.My ravifn fd fancy in amaze,ftill wanders o'er thy charms,!Belufive dreams ten thoufand ways,prefent thee to my armsBv waking think what l endure,while cruel you decline,Thofe plealures who can only cure,this panting breatt of mine.I faint, I fail and wildly rove,becaufe you ftill denyThe juft reward that s due to love,and let true paflion die.Oh 1 turn and let eompaflion feizethat lovely breaft oi thnie $r? *8^ VThy peticc^t would give me eafe,if thou zhd it were mine.Sure Heaven has fitted for deiigh%that beaateous form of thine,And thou'rt. tjo good its law to flight,bv hinil ring the defign.May ah the powers of love agree,at length’to make thee cniaejOr Me my chains, and fet me fre6from ev‘ry charm of thine.FINIS.