THE STORYOF THELITTLE WHITE MOUSE:OH THEj|j OVERTHROW OF THE TYRANT KING. igGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.^xcKCCccccccecracccc cccccroaccrrrcYH0T2 3HTTHELITTLE WHITE MOUSE.aAncient history furnishes an example of aking and queen so tenderly attached to eachother, that nothing ■was wanting to maketheir felicity complete. Their wishes amitheir sentiments corresponded exactly on allsubjects; they went frequently to hunt, kill¬ing various sorts of game, and the stag oftenbecame the object of their amusement, or thevictim of their exertions; they visited therivers for the diversion of fishing ; and, inshort, whatever gratified the one, became asource of real delight to the other. Theirsubjects followed so amiable an example*and thus the happiness of all the nation con¬sisted in mutual exertions to make othershappy.The king of an adjoining state, whosemanners and dispositions were directly con¬trary, conceived a deadly hatred against theking of the Land of Pleasure; lor so thecountry was called, bn accbunt of the tran¬quillity and joy that constantly prevailedthere. He was a declared enemy to pleasure;3he sought for nothing but wounds andbruises; his air was stern and forbiding,w ith a long beard and hollow eyes. He \yaslean and withered; always dressed in black ;his bristly locks were dirty and uncombed;there was no way so secure to obtain hisfavour, but by committing the most atrociousmurders or assassinations: he took uponhimself the office of public executioner, be¬cause he delighted in the pangs of those whosuffered. This kingdom was therefore calledthe Land of Tears.This wicked wretch, unworthy to possessa throne, raised an immense army, anddetermined with it to spread through theterritory of this happy neighbour that deso¬lation which was his greatest delight.When all was ready he began his march;but the news of his intention reached the kingof the Land of Pleasure long before the in¬vading army, who put every thing in thebest possible state of defence, and waited theattack with firmness and resolution. Butthe timid disposition of the queen suggesteda thousand fears: u Sire,” said she, “letus fly; let us take the wealth we possess,and seek that safety in another quarter oithe world which we cannot now find here.”“ It is my duty, madam,” said the king,c£ to remain and protect my subjects. I amdetermined, therefore, to share their fate.”4He then assembled Siis forces, took a tenderleave of the queen, and marched out to meetthe enemy.As soon as he was departed, the queengave way to the excess of her sorrow, andclasping her hands together, “ Alas !” ex¬claimed she, u if the king, my husband,should fall in battle, I shall be left a widow',in the power of a cruel monster, and my un¬born child will be doomed to slavery.” Thisidea redoubled her affliction. The king wroteto her every day; but one morning, whenshe was wratching for the usual messenger,with fear pictured in his countenance, hedismounted immediately, and entering herpresence, u Oh! madam,” said he, “all islost; the king is slain, the army defeated,and the ferocious conqueror almost at ourbacks.”The poor queen fell senseless; her attend¬ants carried her to bed, and all her w'omenstood weeping round; they tore their hairin the bitterness of their affliction, and noscene in the world could have been moreaffecting. But their sobs and lamentationswere soon drowned by the cries that everywhere spread through the palace of the cruelmanner in which the victorious army wasdesolating the city. The wicked king’, atthe head of his savage troops, was incessantlyemployed in exciting them to acts of cruelty5and plunder: and, thus directed, they slew,without discrimination, every person theymet. He entered the palace, and penetratedwithout ceremony into the most retired apart¬ments, where he found the queen overwhelm¬ed with sorrow ahd despair. He beheld herdistresses unmoved, and by his ferociousmanner and brutal threats, added terror tothe pang-s she felt before. Thus, too muchintimidated to answer a word, this monsterof a king, supposed her silence to proceedfrom sullenness and ill humour; he seizedher rudely by the hair, which the negligenceof grief had suffered to fall loosely on hershoulders, and then dragging her- from thobed on which she lay, he through her acrosshis shoulders, and carried her away without'remorse; he then mounted with her on hissteed, and rode off. She besought him, withteam and supplications, to have pity on hersufferings; but he mocked her cries, andsaid to her, u Weep on; your complaintsare a source of pleasure and deversion tome.” .bnrdand aodHe carried her towards his own capital,and, during the time that he was on the road,he took the most dreadful oaths that he wouldhang her as soon as he reached it ; but hewas soon informed, on his arrival, that thequeen was pregnant.When the wicked king knew this, a6thought struck him, if she was delivered of adaughter he could marry her to his son, andto ascertain whether it was a daughter thatshe should have, he sent for a fairy who livedon the frontiers of his dominions. Whenshe arrived, he entertained her with muchmore hospitality than he showed to his mostintimate friends, and then led her to a tower,in the highest room of which the poor queenwas confined. Notliing could equal the miseryof the poor queen, and the unpleasantness ofher appartment. The broken casementsadmitted both the wind and the rain, theflooring was broken in several places, andthe damps that ran down the walls weredangerous, especially to a person of so weaka constitution as the queen; the bed wascomposed of nothing but an old mattress,worse than is found in the habitations f thepoorest class of people. In this miserablecondition, the queen passed both da;f andnight, weeping bitterly at in thoughts ofher own situation, and for the death of theking her husband.The fairy's heart was touched with pity atso deplorable a sight; she embraced the•queen, and, at the same time, she whisperedIn her ear the following words i u Takecourage, madam, your misfortunes will soonbe at an end; 1 hope soon tc contribute toyour happiness.” The queen was a littleIcon solcdby these words, and earnestly en¬treated her to have pity on a poor unhappyprincess, who had onct enjoyed the greatestfavours of fortune ; instead of which, shecould now coast of nothing but sufferingthe greatest misery.p- They were thus talking together, when thewicked king, growing impatient, u Come,come,” said he, “let us not have so manycompliments; I brought you here to informme whether the queen will have a daughteror son ?” £ £ She is pregnant of a daughter,”replied the fairy, “who will be the mostbeautiful and most accomplished princessthat has ever been seen, and the queen willwish to see her placed in the highest possiblesituation of rank and honour.” “If she isnot very beautiful and accomplished,” saidthe king, “ I will hang her mother to a tree,with the child at her neck, and nothing shallprevent it.” Having said this, he left theplace with the fairy, and took no notice ofthe unfortunate queen, who wept bitterly,—thus lamenting her unhappy fate: “ Alas !what shall I do ? If I have a beautiful littlegirl, he will give her to his reptile of a son;and if she is ugly, he will hang us both.To what an extremity am I reduced! Can¬not I conceal it from him somewhere, so thathe can never see it ?”The time approached when the little prin-8cess was to come into the world, and the dis¬tress of the queen augmented daily; thegaoler who guarded her gave her nothingbut three boiled peas and a small bit of blackbread for her food during the day; by whichshe was reduced so thin as to become littleelse than skin and bone.One evening while she was employed inspinning, (for the wicked king was so avari¬cious as to make even his prisoners labour forhim) she saw, entering at a small hole, apretty little mouse as white as snow. u Ah !pretty creature,” exclaimed the queen, u whatdo you come here to seek ? I have but threepeas to last me all day; begone, if you wishnot to fast.”—The little mouse ran abouthere and there, and danced and skipped likea little monkey: the queen was so pleasedydth it, that she gave it the only pea thatremained for her supper. ‘4 Here, ” said she,‘4 here, poor little tiling*, eat this: I havegot no more; but I give it thee willingly.”The instant she had done this, to her greatsurprise there appeared upon the table twopartndg'es, cooked most wonderfully well,and two pots of preserves. 11 Really,” ex¬claimed she, 11 a good turn is never lost.”She ate a little; but, with fasting so long,her appetite was almost gone. She threwdown some to the mouse, which, having9nibbled them away, began to leap about withmore glee than before.The next morning very early the gaoleibrought the queen three peas, which lie hadput as usual in a large dish, to mock hersuffering’s; the little white mouse came softlyand ate them all three, as well as the bread.When the queen wished to dine, she foundnothing there; at which she was very angrywith the mouse. u What a wicked littlebeast,” cried the queen; “if it continuesthus, I shall die with hunger.” As she wasg'oing to cover the plate which the mouse hadleft empty, she found it full of all sorts ofthings good for to eat: she was very g'ladand ate of them ; but while she was eating,a thought came into her head, that i n a fewdays the king would perhaps kill her child,and she quitted the table to weep. “ Ah !”ejaculated the disconsolate queen, “is thereno way of saving it?” At the same timethat she pronounced these words she perceivedthe mouse playing with some straws; shetook some of them and began to work, say-ng, “ If I have enough of straw, I willmake a covered basket to put my littledaughter in, and give it out of the windowto the first charitable person who will takecare of it.”She then began to work very diligently;and she never wanted straw, for the mouse10always brought some into the chamber; andas at usual meal-time the queen always gaveit the three peas, she found in exchange anumber of dishes of the most delicate meats.One day the queen was looking out of thewindow, to see how long she should makethe cord to tie the basket to, when she shouldlet it down, and she perceived an old womanbelow, leaning upon a stick, who spoke toher thus:—“I know your trouble, and ifyou wish it, I will serve you.” “Alas!my dear friend,” replied the queen, “youwill very much oblige me, if you will comeevery evening to the bottom of the tower, toreceive my Child, whom I will let down toyou : you must feed and nurse it, and if everI am rich I will repay you well.” “ I carefor no pecuniary reward,” answered the oldwoman; £ £ but 1 am very nice in my eating,and wish for nothing so much as a fat plumpmouse. If you find such a one in your prison,kill it and throw it to me; your infant willbe the better for it.”When the queen heard this, she began toweep without answering, and the old woman,after having waited a little, asked her whyshe cried: “Because,” replied the queen,“ there only comes into my chamber onelittle mouse, m pretty and so engaging, thI cannot find in my heart to kill it.” “ How,replied the old woman, with great an er do11you like a little rogue of a mouse, whichsteals and eats every thing, better than yourown child? Very well, madam, you arenot much to be pitied; remain in the gooacompany you Ixave chosen; I can have plentyof mice without you; so I care but littleabout itand, scolding in this manner, shehobbled away.Although the queen had a good repastbefore her, the mouse played about as usual;she never raised her eyes from the groundwhere she had fixed them, and tears randown her cheeks.On this same night the little princess cameinto the world, and her beauty surpassed allthe queen had ever beheld: instead of cry¬ing at her birth, as other children do, shesmiled on her affectionate parent, and ex¬tended her little hands, as if she had alreadya good understanding. The queen carressedand kissed her fondly, at the same time sor¬rowfully reflecting, ii Alas ! my dear child,if you fall into the hands of the wickedking, it will cost you your life;” she shutit up in the basket, with a paper attached tothe clothes, on which was writtenO ! you, whose steps the fav’ring pow’rs directTo these lone scenes, your generohs aid I claim;My hapl ess child, in infant years, protectFrom sorrow’s grasp—and Juliet be her name.And having turned away for a moment, she12looked again, and found the infant dressedin the finest linens and laces: she then kissedit, and shed a torrent of tears, not knowinghow to part with her treasure.At this moment in came the little mouse,and jumped into the basket. “Ah! littlecreature,” said the queen, “how much it costsme to save your life ! I shall perhaps lose mydear Juliet. Any other than me Avould havekilled you for the dainty old woman ; but Icould not consent to it.” “ You will not re¬pent it, madam,” replied the mouse; “ I amnot so unworthy of your friendship as yousuppose.” The queen was like one thunder¬struck, when she perceived its little visagechange to that of a woman, and the pawsbecome hands and feet. At length the queen,hardly daring to look up, discovered thefigure to be the fairy that had visited her be¬fore, and who had promised to put an end toher misfortunes and sufferings. “ I wishedto try the goodness of your heart,” said thefojry; “ 1 know now that you .are virtuousand worthy of my friendship. Fairies likejne, who possess treasures and riches morethan I can relate, do not seek so much forthe luxuries of life as for friendship, and weseldom find it.” “ Is it possible, great fairy,”exclaimed the queen, “ that you, who are sopowerful and wealthy, find it such a greattrouble to gain a friend?” “ Yes,” repliedshe, u because persons seldom love us hut forinterest; but when you loved me as a littlemouse, it seemed from a disinterested motive,and I wished to put you to a still greatertrial: I took the figure of an old woman,and it was I who spoke to you at the bottomof the tower; you have always answerd mybest expectation.” At these words she em¬braced the queen, then she kissed the littlevermilion mouth of the infant princess, andsaid, u My pretty little girl, you shall hence¬forth be your mother’s consolation; you shallbe richer than your father; you shall live anhundred j ears without illness, wrinkles, orold age.” The enraptmed queen returnedthanks, and begged that the fairy would takeJuliet away, and be careful of her, addingat the same time, u I give her to be yourdaughter. ”The fairy accepted the offer, and thankedher: she then put the little one into the bas¬ket, which she let down to the bottom of thetower, and having again taken the form ofa mouse, she descended by tbe cord; butwhen she got down, she could not find thechild any where, and remounting in a fright,ii All is lost,” cried she to the queen, myenemy Cancaline has just carried away theprincess. You must know that she is a cruelfairy, who hates me, and, unhappily, she isolder than I am, and has more power. I14know not by what means to get the child outof her wicked hands.”When the queen heard this melancholyaccount, she almost died with grief; shewept bitterly, and beseeched her good friendto save her Child, at whatever price it mightbe done.When the gaoler entered the chamber ofthe queen, he perceived that she had beendelivered, and he went and told the king ofit, who came in a great passion to ask for thechild; ^but she told him that a fairy, whosename khe knew not, had entered the prison,and carried it away by force. At this thewicked king stamped and bit his lips, withevery expression of the most violent rage.<{ I promised to hang thee,” said he to theunfortunate queen, u and now I will keepmy word. He then dragged her by the hairfrom the place of her confinement to a neigh¬bouring wood, mounted a high tree, and wasiust going to hang her, when the fairy, hav¬ing rendered herself invisible, pushed himrudely down, and four of his teeth were struckout by the fall. Before he had time to re¬cover himself, she carried away his intendedvictim to a secure retreat in her magnificentpalace. She was there' treated with everyattention and kindness, and if it had notbeen for the thoughts of her little daughter,she had once more been happy; but she was15unable to procure any intelligence of the; infant, though the little white mouse madei every exertion in her power for that pur¬pose.At length, by the progress of time, the(queens grief abated, and fifteen years passedaway without any change in her situation.—At this period there was great talk all overthe kingdom, that the son of the wickedI monarch had fallen in love with the keeperof the poultry, and that the young womanrefused to accept of him for a husband. Thisextraordinary refusal surprised every one;however, the nuptial dresses were prepared,and the marriage ceremony wras soon expectedto take place. The little white mouse deter¬mined to see this extraordinary damsel, whohad resolution enough to refuse the son of aking, and immediately transported herself tothe capital. She entered into the poultry-yard, and found her there, dressed in a coarsewoollen gown, with her feet bare, and a capof goat’s skin on her head; lying by her sidewere magnificent dresses, embroidered withgold and silver, and ornamented with anumber of precious stones; the turkeys andother fowls that surrounded her trampled onand spoiled them.Thus habited, and thus careless of thesplendour that awaited her, the keeper of thepoultry sat on a large stone in the middle ofI16the yard, when the king’s son arrived: hewas crooked and humph-T>acked, and markedwith every kind of deformity. L ‘ If you per¬sist in refusing me,” said he, “ I will orderyou to be put to death instantly.” Sheanswered him with disdain, “ I will nevermarry you; you are too ugly and too wick¬ed. I prefer poverty, with my turkeys anfpullets, to all the honours you have power t<bestow. ”The little white mouse observed her withwonder and admiration; for, though in soa humble dress, she appeared to possess anincomparable beauty. As soon therefore asthe prince retired, the fairy assumed thefigure of an old shepherdess. u Good day,fair damsel,” said she, “the fowls do creditto your care of them.”—The young womanraised her eyes, and looked at her with acountenance full of sweetness : ‘‘ they wish,”answered she, “to persuade me to quit mypresent employment, for a crown which I donot want, and for a husband whom I shoulddespise; pray, good mother, what is youradvice ?” “ My child,” returned the fairy,‘ ‘ a crown is a dazzling object; but you can¬not imagine the care and trouble it is to thosewho wear it.” “ But suppose I do know allthis,” quickly answered the keeper of theking’s poultry, “still I would refuse to ac¬cept it, though I am without friend or re-17lation, and know not even the name of thosewho gave me birth.” “You have notlibeauty and virtue, my child,” returned thwise and benovelent fairy, “which are worthmore than a thousand kingdoms; tell methen who placed you here, since you are with¬out parents and without friends ?” “A fairy,named Cancaline, is the cause that I havebeen placed here,” replied the young woman:4 ‘ she beat me till she almost killed me, with¬out the least provocation. Tired of mysulferings, one day I ran away from her,and, not knowing where to go, I stopped torest myself in a wood, where the son of thewicked king came by chance to wralk: heasked if I would enter his service. I con¬sented, and was placed to take care of hispoultry; where he came constantly to seethem, and always took great notice of them.Alas! he soon conceived a violent love forme, and has ever since so teased me with ex¬pressions of it, that I have no comfort leftin the world.”This recital made the fairy suspect shehad at last met with the princess Juliet, andshe therefore asked to know her name. “I1am called Juliet,” added she, modestly;“ but who gave me that name I never knew.”The doubts of the fairy were thus instantlyremoved; she threw' herself on the neck of theprincess, exclaiming, “Juliet, I haveknqwn18you long; I am delighted to find you sosensible and so lovely ; but I wish you werebetter dressed; take the clothes that are be¬fore you, and put them on.” The princessobeyed immediately, and talcing from herhead the cap of goat’s skin, her beautifulgolden hair fell in curls upon her shoulders;then, taking some water from a fountainthat ran through the yard, she washed herhands and face, and discovered a complexionmore bright and transparent than the choisestpearls of India; roses seemed to bloomfresh on her cheeks; coral seemed to form herbeautiful mouth; and her eyes shone like themost brilliant diamonds. When she hadfinished dressing herself, the gracefulness ofher form appeared equal to the beauty of hercountenance, and the fairy gazed on her withwonder and delight.u Pray, who do you suppose yourself tohe now, my dear child ?” asked the fairy.i( Really,” answered she, u I could fancymyself to be the daughter of some greatking.” “ Should you be glad of it?” de¬manded the fairy. “Yes, certainly, mygood mother,” replied the princess, “ for itwould give me the power of assisting manythat are in distress.” “Be happy then,” ex¬claimed the fairy, “for you are born of royalparents: to-morrow-youshall know more.”The fairy returned immediately to her (19palace, where she had left the queen. li Ibring you, madam,” cried she, “ the happi-i est tidings.” “ Alas!” answered the queen,4‘what tidings of joy can come to me, whohave lost both my husband and my child ?”44 It is always right to hope,” replied thelittle white mouse, for the fairy had againtaken that figure; 441 have seen the princessyour daughter, and she is more beautiful thanthe blushes of the dawning day.” She thenrelated the whole of her discovery, at whichthe queen wept with joy. 44 Who wouldhave thought,” said she, 44 in the days otmy prosperity, that I should ever bear adaughter to become the keeper of hens andturkeys !” 44 It is the cruel Cancaline,” saidthe fairy, 4 4 who, knowing how I love you,has brought this misery on your child, pur¬posely to vex me; but she shall come glori¬ously out of it, or I will burn my books.”441 am determined,” said the queen, 44 thatshe shall not marry the prince; pray goand seek her immediately, and bring her tome.”The son of the wicked king left Juliet ina great rage at her obstinate refusal, andwent into the gardens of the palace to con¬sider what he should do; here he cried andgroaned so loud, that his father overheardhim, and, leaning through the window, in-1 quired the cause ef his distress. 44 How can20I be otherwise than afflicted,” answered he,< ‘ to be thus set at defiance by a keeper ofpoultry ?” u What, will not she love you?”said the king'; i( I am determined she shalllove you, or be put to death.” He then call¬ed his guards. “ Go,”said he, “and bringher here immediately; I will punish her soseverely, that she shall soon repent of herobstinacy.”They went to the poultry-yard, and foundJuliet there, magnificently dressed, as thefairy left her; they had never seen so lovelya figure, and, taking her for some princess,were afraid to speak to her. She saidto them, in a sweet and condescendingvoice, “ Pray whom do you seek here ?”“ Madam,” said they, “ we seek an unfor¬tunate creature named Juliet.” “ I am theperson you seek,” replied she; “what doyou want ?” Hearing this, they seized her,and having' tied her hands and feet withcords, lest she should escape, they carriedher into the presence of the king. “ Well,insolent wretch,” said he,- “and so you aredetermined not to love my son ? He is athousand times handsomer than you; lovehim therefore immediately, or I’ll have you•flayed alive.” The princess, trembling likean aflfighted dove, kneeled before him, andtried to inspire pity in a heart that neverfelt any; but she pleaded in vain, as the21prince insisted upon it, that his father shouldsrder her for immediate execution. How-2ver, they determined at last, as a punish¬ment more severe than death, to shut her uphr life in a tower, where she would nevermore see the light of the sun.At this moment the fairy and the goodpieen arrived in a flying chariot, and theiffectionate mother began to weep bitterly,m hearing the sad fate to which her long¬est daughter was just condemned. 'u Be oi^ood comfort,” said the fairy, u you shall inhe end be made happy, and your enemies>e amply punished.” The princess was con¬veyed to the tower, and the king retired to>ed; the fairy then resumed the form of theittle white mouse, and got upon his pillow.* v henever he attempted to sleep she bit hissar; at which, being much disturbed, heurned the other side, and she bit at that also,without mercy: he cried out for assistance,md when his attendants came, they foundlis ears bleeding so fast, that they were un-ible to stop his wounds. While they wereeeking about the apartment to find thenouse, she was gone into the prince’s roomo inflict the same vengeance upon him; heikewise called his attendants, and havinghown his wounded ears, made them put adaster on each. The little white mouse, inhe mean time, returned to the king, and22she bit his nose and gnawed his face inseveral places: he put up his hands to de¬fend Ins face, and she bit his fingers; hecried out, “Mercy! mercy! I am lost;r;and, while his mouth was thus open, the;little white mouse entered it, and bit a piece;off his tongue: his attendants came in oncemore; but he was now unable to speak teithem, his tongue was so severely wounded:so he made signs that it was a mouse tliaihad thus wounded him, and every corner othe room was immediately examined to finethe offender, but in vain, she was gone tdto pay a visit to the prince, and to treat himmuch worse than she had treated his father;—She ate out one of his eyes, which left him;in total darkness; for he was blind of theother before. He leaped out of bed in-istantly, seized his sword, and ran to theapartment of his father, wrho also had taker;his sword, storming and swearing that hrwould kill every one who came in his way tilithe mouse was found.When he saw his son in such a passion,he scolded him, and the prince, whose ear; (iwere burning with pain, not knowing th»voice of his lather, attacked him furiously iiThe king exceedingly irritated, made «violent cut at him with his sword, and re <ceived a severe wound from his son at th fsame moment; so that they both fell to th : f'Zdground bleeding profusely. All their sub¬jects, who hated them mortally, and whoonly served and submitted to them throughfear, now dreading them no longer, tiedcords to their feet, and dragged them intodie river, saying they were happy thus toget rid of their tyrants.Thus ended the days of the wicked kingand his son. The good fairy, who had seenlill that passed, went immediately to seek th£rpieen, and they went together to the blackower, where the princess Juliet was confinedrnder more than forty locks. The fairyitruck three times with a little ring on thegreat doer, which opened instantly, as didfill the rest; they found the poor princessvery thoughtful, and with scarcely spirits to>peak a word. The queen ran to embraceaer; “My dear child, I am thy mother,,die queen of the Land of Pleasure!” ex-blaimed she, and then gave her an accountbf her birth. When J uliet heard these happyhidings, she was as near dying with joy asi*he had been near dying with grief: she(threw herself at the feet of the queen, em¬braced her knees, and wet her hands with(the tears she shed upon them. She likewiseicarressed the good fairy, who had conferred'30 many obligations on them both. Thefairy said to them, u It is not time now tochink of amusing ourselves; let us go to24the great hall of the castle and haranguethe people.”She walked first, with a grave and ma¬jestic air, and dressed in splendid robes;next came the queen in robes suitable to herrank; the princess followed, decorated in asplendid habit, which the fairy had broughther for the occasion; but distinguished muchmore by her native modesty and the lustre ofher beauty, which had never before beenequalled. They bowed gracefully to everyone they met by the way, whether rich orpoor, and by this condescension attracted thenotice of every one.When the great hall was full, the goodfairy said to the subjects of the deceasedtyrant, that she would recommend them tochoose for their sovereign the»daughter of aneighbouring king, whom she then presentedto them. “ Under so amiable a queen,”said she, “ you cannot fail to live in a stateof continual happiness and tranquillity.” Atthese words the people cried out with onevoice, “Yes! yes! we choose her for omqueen, and we trust she will make us amendsfor the miseries we have so long endured.’'As soon as the intelligence was generallyknown, joy spread throughout the city, andevery sort of business was laid aside, to giveplace to feasting am 1 merriment.'oJ og an Jol r<39vl,ta£ - 