• The Farmer;Tc which are added,Lilies of the Valley.Young Allan.' - i r> > . • ■ ./ v*. *Last may a braw wooer.The careful Wife.aV0ITHE FARMERCome each jolly fellow that loves to be mellow,Attend u to me »nd sit easy ;One jorum ifl my boys we will try it,Dull thiuking will make a man crazy ;For here I am king, let us drink, laugh and sing,Let no man appear as a stranger ;But show me the art that refuses his glass,And I'll order him hay ia a manger.By plowing and sowing, by reaping and mowing.Dame nature supplies uswith plenty ;I’ve a cellar well stor'd and a plentiful board,And my garden affords every daintyI have all things in season, both woodcock andpheasant.'T am here as justice of Quorum jIn my cabin's far end I've a bed for afrien-d,With a clean fire side and a jorum.Were it not for my seeding, you’d get but poorfeedingYon would surely be all starv’d withe ut me;I.3I aaa always content when Fva paid my rentAid happy whea friends are about me ;Draw closs to the table my boys while your able,2*et me hear no words of complainingFor the jingling of glass s no music surpasses,I love to see bottles a craiidng.Let the mighty and great roll in splendour and state,I envy them nat I declare it;I’ll eat m.y own lamb my own chickeas and ham,And I'll shejr my own sheep and I'd wiar it.I've lawns and I’ve bowers, I've fruit and I'veflowers,The lark is »y daily alarmer ;So my jolly boys now, that follow the plough,D.ink Long LU'eaad Success to' the Farmer.LILIES OF TEE VALLEY-%O’er barren li bs and flowery d»les,O'er seas and distant shores,With merry songs and jocund tales,I’ve pas.'d some pleasant hours,Thi’ waudering thus 1 ne'er could find -A girl like b’yihesome Sally ;t4Who picVs and culls and criss aloud.41 Sweet lilies of the va'ley. “I rom whistling o'er the harrowci tu t,Fi-om nestling of each tree,I chose a soldier's life to wed,So social gay, aad free ;Yet thc>' ihe lasies love me well.And often try to rally.None, please* me like her who cries,“ Sweet lilies of the valley. ‘I'm now returned of late dischargedTo see my native soil;From fighting in my country's came,To plough my country's soil :I care not which with either pleased,So I possess my SJ yThat little merry nymph, wdio criss,Sweet lilies of the valley “YOUNG ALLAN.The run in the west fids to rest in the c'vairig,, : i C?; I- . 8f.fi TVlik morn blinks chearfu' upon ths grpen lea:.But ah ! on tlie p How of sorrow aye leaping,Mae morning, nac e’vaiag brings pleasure to raj.5O! v/aefu' the pi.tiag, when smiling it dinger,Youag Allan left Scotia to nseet wi' thefae :Cauld, cauld now he lies in a land amang s.rangers»Frae fiiends acid fire Helen for ever away.By the slk on the mountain resists the bkst Tairin’,Sae did he the brunt o’ the battle sustain,Till treachery arrested his courage sae darin4.And laid him pale lifeless upon the drear plain■ Cauld winter the flower divests o' its Headin',In simmer a^ain i; blooass bonny to see ;Butnaething alas ! can e’er heal roy heart bleeding’*Drear winter remaining for aver wi' meLAST. MAY A BRAW WODER.Last May abraw wooer camj down the rang glenAnd sair wi’ his love di d he desva me ;I said there was naething l hated like men,The deuce gae wL’ro to believe me, to believi npc>The deuce g*e wi’m to believe m?.He spoke o' the darts in my bonnie black e'en.And vow'd for my love he was dying ;^ said he might die when he liked for Jean,The Lord forgie me for lying, for lying,The Lord forgie sae for lying.A weei stocked mailen himsell for the lairdAnd marriage affhand were his proffers,I never loot on that I keni or I car’d,But thought I might get waur off rs, waur offers’But thought I might get waur offers.But what wad you think? in a fortnight or less.The ucil tak his taste to gae uaar her !He up the Ung Lssn- to my black cousin Bess,GurSp? je how, the jade ! I c.uid bear her, couldbear her,Gu&s ys how the jade! I could bear her.f;'. i Vro;,.- ;0 • ;; ' la^IBut a' the ecist week as I fretted wi' care,f gsed to the tryst o' Dolgarnock,And wka but my fine fickle lover was there,I glowr’d as I'd seen a warLck, a warlock,1 glowr’d as I'd s:ea a warlock.But cwre my lefi shouthcr I gae him a blink,LesLr.efcbsyurs might say I was saucy,My woner he caper’d aa he’d bean in driak,And vow’d I was his dear lassie, dear lassie,And vow’d I was h s dear lassie.I spier'd for my cousin fu' couthy and sweet,Gi$ she had recover’d her heavin'7 'And how hot1 new shoon fit her auld shschedd feet?But heavens how he fell a swe&ria a swearin,,But heavens how he fell a swearin.He begged me for gudesake 1 wad bo his wit'*,Or else 1 vrad kill him wi’ sorrow :So e'en to preserve ihe nocr poJy in lifeI think 1 maun wed him to-morrow, to-caor.ow,1 think 1 maun wed him to-morrow.the careful vmfeHark.gentle Jane, the huntsman’s horn:Now chides my longest day :Mark ! cries Jean—see the hazy morn,Proclaims the cheerless dayTo hunt the stag, the fox, the hare.Fresh health thbse sports impart:Cries Jane, de-r John, oh ! pray forbear,For danger wings Death’s dart;Yoics! tantivy 1 soholDear John cries Jean, your spirits spare,Of tantivy— O, beware tSee: gentle Jane, Aurora bright,Her beams burst thro’ the sky;8See : cries Jase by that genial lighf,r.Se magic of this eye.To eh#se the stag, the fox, the hare.Should joys do® estic yield ?Cties Jane, dejir John, avoid the snare.That lurks in danger’s field.Yoics ! tantivy ! soho :I>ear John, cries Jane if life's your care,Of tantivy— O, beware :Now, gentle Jane ! I mount my mare,And spurs clap to her side :Now, cries Jane, where's the tender careYou swore to me your bride.I’ll chase the stag, the fox, the hare,Though Death in ambuJi hide!Cries Jane, dear John, of fate beware.Lest mischief should betide!Yoics t tantivy ! soho •Now John convinc'd, dismounts his mare.Of tantivy—O, beware !FifclS.*