THEMASSACRE OF GLENCO.1la a Letter from a Gentleman in Edinburghto his Friend in London.WGiving a particular account of that unprecedentedtransaction, wherein orders were-given that all theMales of the M-Oonalds in that diftrict under 70ihould be put to the,Sword, in which 38 personswere killed in cold blood, most of them in theirbed, 900 Cows, 200 Horfes, and a great manySheep and Goats were carried oft' to the fcjarrifonat Iverlocby, together with the extreme mifery, anddeath, of many of the women and children, inbeing deprived of their fathers and husbands, anddriven from their homes in the most inclement andlevere seafon of the year.m“ William R. As for Macklan of Glenco, and“ that tribe, if they can be diftinguifhed from the rest“ of the Highlanders, k will be proper, for the vindica-“frion of public justice, to extirpate that set of thievesw r. W.R.14th Article of instructions, Jan. 16. *69*.PAISLEY:Printed by J. Neilson, for George Caldwell, Bookseller#1819.The MASSACRE ofOLE N C 0,SIR,i HE Account you defirtci of the ftrange ancj fur-prifing Maffacre of Glenco, take as follows :Mackian Mackdonaid, Laird of Gknco, a branch ofthe Mackdonalds, one of the greatest Clans, or Tribes inthe north of Scotland,-came with the moft considerablemen of his Clan to Colonel Hill, Governor of Fort-Wil¬liam at Inverlochy, fome few days before the expiringof the time for receiving the Indemnity appointed byproclamation, which, as l take it, was the 111; of Januioylaft, intreating he would administer unto him the oaths•which the foresaid proclamation required to be taken ;that fo submitting himself to the government, he mightliave its proteftron. The Colonel received him with allSjXprefiions of kindnefs ; neverthelefs fhifting the aciminif-tering the oaths to him ; alledging, that by the procla¬mation it did not belong to him, but to the Sheriffs, Bai¬lies of Regalities, and Magiflratcs of burghs, to admi-nifte# them. Mackian complained that by this disap¬pointment he might be wronged, the time being now.Bear the expiring, and the weather so extreme, and theWays so very’bad, that it was not pofiiblefor him fo foonto reach any Sheriff, See. got from Colonel Hilt, underhis hand,hisproteiStion ; and withal he was affured, that noorders from the government against him fnould l^e put in"execution until he first was advertifed and had time allow¬ed him to apply himfelf to King or council for his own fafe*ty. But the better to make all fure (tho’ this might haveseemed security enough for that time) with all dispatchimaginable he potted to Inverary, the chief town of/Lrgylefhire where he foend Sir Colin Campbell of Ard-3fcinlis, Sheriff of that shire, and craved of him thebenefit of the Indemnity, according to the proclamation^he being billing to perform all the conditions required.Sjr Colin at first scrupled to admit him to the oaths, fttetime which the proclamation did appoint being elapsedby one day, alledging it would be of no use to him thento take them: but Mackian represented that it was nothis fault, he having come in time enough to Colonel Hill*ftot doubting but he could have administered theoaths to him, and that upon his refufal he had made suchhafte to Inverary, that he might have come in timeenough, had qot the extremity of the weather hinderedhim ; and even as it was, he was but one day after thetime appointed ; and that it would be very unbecomingthe Government to take the advantage of a man’s cominglate by one day, efpecially when he had done his utmostto have come in time. Upon this and’his threatening t®protest against the Sheriff for the severity of this usage,lie administered to him and his attendants the oaths,Mackian depending upon the Indemnity granted tothofe who flionld take them; he having so done hewent home and lived quietly and peaceable under thegovernment till the day of his untimely death. ,In January lail, a party of the Earl of Argyle’sRegiment came to that Country ; the defign pf theircoming was then sufpected to be, to take coiirfe with,thofe who (hould Hand out, and not submit, and takethe oaths. The Garrifon of Glenco being thronged, andGlenco being commodious for quartering, as being nearthat Garrison, those soldiers were sent thither to quarter,they pretended, they came to «xa£l arrears of Cefaand Hearth Money (a tax ntvensfcnown in Scotland un¬til laid on by the parliament 1690, after the parliamentof England had eased thenffelves of it.) Before theyentered Glenoo, the Laird or fons came out to meet them,and asked them if they came as friends or enemies? Theofficers anfwered, As friends, and gave their parole, ofhonour that they would do neither l am nor his concerns anyharm; upon which he weJtom’d them, promising themthe belt entertainment the place could afford. Thishe really performed, as all the foldicrs confefs,. He andthey lived together in mtitual kindnefs and friendftnp fif¬teen days, or thereabouts ; fo far wan he from feariqgany hurt from them. And the very lall day of his life hefpent in keeping company with the commander of thatparty, Captain Campbell of Glenlyon, playing at Cardswith him till fix or feven at night, and at their; partingmutual proteftations of kindness were renewed. Sometime that very day, but whether before, or after theirparting, 1 know not, Captain Campbell had thefe ordersfent him from Major Duncan •■on, a copy whereof l herefend you.Ballacholis, Feb. 12. 1692*SIR,You are hereby* ordered to fall upon the Rebels,the Mackdonalds of Glenco, and put all to the Swordunder feventy. You are to have fpecial care that the OldFox and his Sons do upon no account efcape your hands.You are to 1'ecure all the avenues, that no man efcape.This you are to put in execution at five o'Clock in theMorning precifcly,' and by that time, or very Ihortlyafter it, I’ll ftrive to be at you with a llronger party:If I do not come to yon at five you are not to tarry forme, but to fall on- This is by the King’s SPECIALCOMMAND,' for the good and fafety of the country,that thefe mifereants may be cue o'ff root and branch.See that this be put in execution, without feud or favour,else you may expect to be treated as not true to theKing or government, nor a man fit to carry a commis-iion in the King’s service. Expecting you will not failin the fulfilling hereof, as you love yourfelf, I fubscribethefe with my hand,ROBERT DUNCANSON.For their Majeljy’s fervice to CaptainRobert Campbell of Glknlyo*.SIR, Ballacholis, Feb. 12. 1692.Per Second to the Commander in Chief, and rayColonel’s orders to me, for putting in execution thefervice commanded against the Rebels in Glenco, where¬in you, with the party of the Earl of Argyle’s regi¬ment under your command, are to be concerned;you are therefore forthwith to order your affair^fo a* that the feveral ports ahtady affined by you, beby you and your fevcral detachments fallen in a&ion withprecifely by five o’Clock to-morrow morning, being Sa¬turday ; at which time l will endeavour the fame with thofcappointed from this Regiment fo- the other places. Itwill be most neceffary you fecure thofe avenues on thefouth fide, that the Old Fox nor none of his Cubs'get a-way. The orders are, that none be fpared of the fwordfrom 70, nor the Government troubled with Prisoners.This is all, until I fee you’, fromYour humble Servant,JAMES HAMILTON.Pleafe to orcer a guard to fecure the Ferry, and theBoats there ; and the boats must be all on this fide theFerry after your men are over.For their Majesties Service, for Major RobertDuncanfon of the Earl of Argyle’s Regiment.The Soldiers being difpofed five or three in a houfe,according to the number of the family they wereto affaffinate, had their orders given them fecretly, Theyhad been all received as friends by thofe poor people,who intended no evil themfelves, little fufpected thattheir guefts were defigned to be their murderers. At fiveo’Clpck in the morning they began their blpodv work,furprised and butchered thirty eight persons who hadkindly received them under their roofs. Mackian hiru-felf_ was murdered, and is much bemoaned ; he was aftately well-favoured man, and of good courage andfenfe: Asalfo the Laird of Archintrikiu, a gentleman ofmore than ordinary judgement and understanding, who hadfubmitted to the government, and had Col. Hill’s protec¬tion in his pocket, which he had got three months be¬fore. I cannot without horror reprefent how that a boyabout eight years of age was murdered ; he seeing whatwas done to others in the houfe with him, in a terriblefright ran out of the houfe, and efpying Capt. Campbell,grafped him about the legs, crying for mercy, and offer¬ing to be his fervant all his life. I am informed Capt,Campbell inclined to fpnrc him ; but one Drummond, aaofficer, barbaroufly ran his dagger through him, where¬of he died immediately. The rehearl'al of federal particu¬lars and circumftances of this tragical ftory, makes it ap¬pear most doleful ; as that Mackian >vas killed as he wasdrawing on his breeches, ftand'ng before his bed, andgiving orders to bis fervants forv the good entertainmentof thofe who murdered him ; while he was fpeaking thewords, he was fhot through the head, and fell dead inhis lady’s arms, who through the grief of this and otherhad usages ihe met with, died next day. It is not to beomitted that moll-of those poor people were killed whenthey were afleep, and none were allowed to pray to Godfor mercy. Providence ordered it fo that that night wasmoft boifterous ; fo as a party of four hundred men, whofhould have come to the other end of the glen, and begunthe like work there at the fame hour (intending that thepoor inhabitants should be enclofed, and none of themefcape) could not march that length, until it was nine©’Clock, and this afforded to many an opportunity ofefcaping, and none were killed but thofe in whofe housesCampbell of Glenlyon’s men were quartered, otherwiseall the males under seventy years of, age, to the numberof two hundred, had been-cut off, for that was theorder; and it might have been eafilyexecuted,efpecially■confiderbg that the inhabitants had no arms at that time ;for upon the first hearing that the foldiers were comingto the glen, they had cpnveyed them all out of the way.For tho’ they relied on the promifes which were madethem for their fafety ; yet they thought it not improba¬ble that they might be difarmed. «1 know hot whetherto impute it to difficulty in dillinguifhing the differenceof a few years, or to the fury of the soldiers, who beingonct glutted with blood, iland at nothing, th;£ even fomeabout Seventy years of age were dellroyed. . They setall the houfes on fire, drove off all the cattle to the Gar-rifon of Inverlochy, viz- 900 Cows, 200 Horfes, anda great many Sheep and Goats, and there they were di¬vided amongst the officers. And how difmal may youimagine the cafe of the poor women and children was7then ! It was 'ajnentable past expve&on : their husbandsand fathers and near relations were forced to flee forfbeirlives; they themfelvcs almost ftript and nothing leftthem, and their !«otifes being burnt, and -not one housenearer than fix miles^ and to get thither they were to pafaover mountains, and wreaths of snow, in a vehementftorm, whereiatbe mod part of them perilhed through hun¬ger and cc-ld. It fills r e with horror to think of poorltri|!t children and women, some with, child and somegiving suck, wrellling against a ftorm, in mountains andheaps of fnow, and at length to be overcome, and giveover, and fall down, and die milerable.You fee in Hamilton’s order to .Duncanfon, there is afpecial caution, That the Old Fox’nor none of his Cubs(hould elcape; and in Duacanfon’s order to Capt.Campbell of Glenlyon, That the old Foa nor noae ofhis fons efcape ; but notwithftanding all this wickedcaution, it pleafed God that the two young gentlemen,Mackian’s fons escaped. For it happened that theyounger of these gentlemen trufted little to the fairpromifes of Campbell and had a, more watchful eye overhim than his father or brother, who fuffeted themselves,by his reiterated oaths, to be deluded into a beliefof his integrity : he having a ftrong impreffion onhis fpirit that some mifehievous defign was hidden under• Campbell’s fpecious pretences, it made him, after the restwere in bed, remain in a retired corner, where he had, an advantageous prospect into their guard. About mid-night perceiving fevera,! foldiers' to enter it, this increafedhis jealousy ; fo lie went and communicated his fears to his,brother, who could not for a long time be perfuaded therewas any bad delign againlbthem, and afierted, That whathe had feen was not a doubling their guards in orderto any ill defign, but that being in a ftrange place, andat a distance from the Garrifon, they were tofendout Cen-tinels far from the guard, and becaufe of the extremityof the weather relieved them often, and that the men heHw could be no'more than thefe. Yet he perfifting tofay, lhat they wer^not so fecure, but that it was fit toacquaint their father with what he had feen, heprevailed with his brother tq ofe» aud go with him to.8Ills' father who lay in a room contiguous to that theywere in Tho* what the younger fon alledged made nogreat imprefll n on his father, yet heallowed his fons to trywhat they could difcover. I hey well knowing all skulk*ing places there, went and hid themselves near to acentinel’s poll, where inftead of one. they difcoveredeight or ten men, this made them more •nquifitive, fothey crept as near as they could without heing difcovered,fo near that they could hearone fay' to his fellows, thathe,liked not this work, and that had he known of it, hewould have been very unwilling to have come there ;but that none except their commanders knew of it tillwithin a quarter of a,n hour. T he soldier added, thathe was willing to fight against the men of the Glen, butit was hafe to murder them But to all this was anfwer*ed, All the blame be on fuch as give the orders; we arefree, being bound to obey our officers. Upon hearing ofthefe words the young gentlemen retired as quickly andas quietly as they could towards t' e houfe to informtheir father of what thev had heard ; but as they camenigh to it they perceived it surrounded, and heard gunsdischarged, af.d the people (hrieking ; whereupon beingunarmed and totally unable to refeue their father,they prtferved their own lives in hopes yet to ferve theirking and country, and to fee justice done upon those hellhounds, treacherous murderers, the fhame of their coun¬try, and disgrace to mankind.» I must not forget to tell you, That there were two ofthefe Officers who had given their Parole of honour toMack Ian, who refufed to be concerned in that brutaltragedy, for which they were fent prifoners to Glafgow,where, if they remain not IKK, 1 am fure they were lomeweeks ago, but as yet I have not learned their fate.S I R,Your huipblc Servant^ &c».FINIS.»Printed by J* NcilWK*V*'J*.