FREE MASON’S CATECHISM.TO WHICH IS SUBJOINED,THE MASON-WORD.BY SAMUEL PRICHARD,LATE MEMBER OF A CONSTITUTED LODGE.GLASGOW:/PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.W:Kki)V\ ViKI.:YU /.ID\J r3xU>'t8H0€: :.TjT >; -1 ^ n fTHEHISTORY OF MASONRY.ORIGIN OF MASONRY.Ii1 The original institution of Masonry is laid on thefoundation of the liberal Arts and Sciences ; butmore especially on the fifth, namely, Geometry:For on the building of the Jower of Babel, the artof Masonry was first introduced ; and from thencehanded down by Euclid, a most worthy and excel¬lent Mathematician in Egypt: and he communi¬cated it to Hiram, the Master-Mason, concerned inthe building of Solomon’s Temple, at Jerusalem;where was an excellent and curious Mason, thatwas the chief under the Grand Master, Hiram,whose name was Mannon Grrecus, who taught theart of Masonry to one Carolus Marcel in Franco, whoI was afterwards elected king of France : And from| thence it was brought into England, in the timeI of Ethelstane ; who ordered an assembly to bod held every year at York, which was the first intro-[ duction of it into England. And Masons werei made in the manner following:—Whilst one of the Seniors holdeth the Book,i then ho or they put their hands on tho Book, whilsti tho Master ought to read tho Laws or Charges.Which Charges were :—That they should be.‘1true to one another ivitliout exception ; and shouldbe obliged to see to their brothers’ and fellows’necessities, or put them to labour and reward themaccordingly.But in these latter days Masonry is not com¬posed of artificers, as it was in its primeval state,when some few catechistical questions are onlynecessary, to declare a man sufficiently qualifiedfor an Accepted Mason.The new terms of Free and Accepted Masonry,as it now is, was not heard of till within those fewyears : No Constituted Lodges, or Quarterly Com¬munications were known till 1691, when Lordsand Dukes, Lawyers and Shop-keepers, and otherinferior tradesmen, porters not excepted, were ad¬mitted into this mystery, or no mystery. The firstsort being introduced Wt a very great expence, thesecond sort at a moderate rate, and the latter sortat the expence of six or seven shillings ; for whichthey receive the Word, as they term it; which ismore ancient and honourable than the order of theStar and Garter ; which antiquity is accounted,according to the Rules of Masonry, as deliveredby their tradition, ever since Adam, which I leavethe candid reader to determine.From the Accepted-Masons sprung the realMasons ; from both sprung the Gormogaus, whosoGrand-Master, the Volgi, deduces his originalfrom the Chinese, whose writings, if to be credited,maintains the hypothesis of the Pre-Adamites, andconsequently, must be more ancient than Masonry.The most free and grand Society, is that of the jGrand Koihebar, which consists of a select com- jpany of responsible people, whose discourse is con¬cerning trade and business, and promote friendshipwithout compulsion or restriction.5But if, after admission into the. secrets of Mason¬ry, any new brother should dislike their pro¬ceedings, and reflect on himself for being so easilycajoled out of his money, declines the fraternity,or secludes himself upon account of the quarterlyexpences of the Lodge, and the Quarterly Commun¬ications, notwithstanding he has been legallyadmitted into a constituted and regular Lodge, hoshall be denied the privilege, as a visiting brotherof knowing the mystery for which he has alreadypaid, which is a manifest contradiction, accordingto the institution of Masonry itself, as will evidentlyappear by the following treatise.ENTERED PRENTICE’S DEGREE.Q. From whence came you ?A. From the Holy Lodge of St John’s.Q. What recommendation brought you fromthence ?A. The recommendation which I brought fromthe Right Worshipful Brothers and Fellows, ofthe Right Worshipful and Holy Lodge of St John’s,from whence I come and greet you thrice heartilywell.Q. What do you come here to do ?A. Not to do my own proper will.But to subdue my passion still ;The rules of Masonry in hand to take.And daily progress therein to make.Q. Are you a Mason ?A. I am so taken and accepted to be amongBrothers and Fellows.Q. How can I know that you are a Mason ?6A. By signs and Tokens, and Perfect Points ofEntrance,Q. What are signs ?A. All Squares, Angles and Perpendiculars.Q. What are Tokens ?A. Certain regular and brotherly grips.Ex. Give me the Points of your entrance.Resp. Give the first, and I will give you thesecond.Ex. I bail it.Resp. I conceal it.Ex. What do you conceal ?Resp. All secrets and secrecy of Masons andMasonry, unless to a true and lawful Brother, afterdue examination, or in a just and worshipful Lodgeof Brothers and Fellows well met.(2- Where was you made a Mason ?A. In a just and perfect Lodge.Q. What makes a just and perfect Lodge ?A. Seven or more.Q. What do they consist of?A. One Master, two Fellow-crafts, and twoEntered Prentices.Q. What makes a lodge ?A. Five.Q. What do they consist of ?A. One Master, two Wardens, one Fellow-craftand one Entered Prentice.Q. Who brought you to the Lodge ?A. An Entered Prentice.Q. How did he bring you ?A. Neither clothed nor naked, bare footed norshod, deprived of all metal, and in a right movingposture.Q. How got you admittance ?A. By three great knocks.7Q. Who received you ?A. A Junior Warden.Q. How did he dispose of you ?A. He carried me to the north-east part of thelodge, and brought me back again to the west, anddelivered me to the Senior Warden.Q. What did the Senior Warden do with you?A. He presented me, and shewed me how towalk up by three steps to the Master.Q. What did the Master do with you ?A. He made me a Mason.Q. How did he make you a Mason ?A. With my hare-bended knee, and my bodywithin the square, the compass extended to mynaked left breast; my naked right hand on theHoly Bible, there I took the obligation or oath ofa Mason.Q. Can you repeat that obligation ?A. I will do my endeavour.Which is as follows :—“ I hereby solemnly vow and swear, in the pres¬ence of and this Right Worshipful Assembly,that I will hail and conceal, and never revqp,! thesecrets or secrecy of Masons or Masonry that shallbe revealed unto me, unless to a true and lawfulBrother, after an examination, or in a just andand worshipful Lodge of Brothers and Fellows wellmet. ”“ 1 furthermore promise and vow, That I will notwrite them, print them, mark them, carve them, orengrave them, or cause them to be written, carved, orengraven, on wood or stone, so as the visible charac¬ter or impression of a letter may appear, wherebyit may be unlawfully obtained. All this under noless penalty than to have my throat cut, my tonguetaken from the roof of my mouth, my heart pluckedfrom under my left breast, tben to bo buried in thesands of the sea, the length of a cable rope fromthe shore, where the sea ebbs and flows twice intwenty-four hours ; my body to be then burnt toashes, my ashes to be scattered upon the face ofthe earth, so that there shall bo no more remem¬brance of me among Masons.Q. What form is a Lodge ?A long square.How long ?From east to west.How broad ?From north to south.How high ?Inches, feet, and yards innumerable, as highas the clouds.Q. How deep ?To the centre of the earth.Where does the Lodge stand ?Upon the highest hill or lowest vale, or inthe valley of Jehosaphat, or any other secret place,Q. How is it situated ?A. Due East and West.Q. Why so ?A. Because all churches and chapels are orought to be so.Q. What supports a Lodge ?A. Three great pillars.Q. What are they called ?A. Wisdom, to contrive ; Strength, to support;and Beauty, to adorn.Q. Wliat is the covering of a Lodge?A. A cloudy canopy of divers colours, or theclouds.Q. Is there any furniture in a lodge ?A. Yes.—Q. What is it ?A.Q-A.Q.A.Q.A.A.Q.A.0A. A Mosaic pavement, the ground-floor of thei lodge ; blazing star, the centre; and indented| tarsel, the border around it.Q. What is the other furniture in a Lodge ?A. A Bible, compass, and Square.Q. Who do they properly belong to?A. The Bible to God, the compass to the Master,and square to the Fcllow-craft.Q. Have you any jewels in the Lodge ?A. Yes.Q. How many ?A. Six, three moveable, and three immove-'i able.Q. What are the moveable jewels ?A. The Square, Level, and Plumb-rule.Q. What are their uses ?A. The square, to lay down true and right|i| lines ; a level, to try all horizontals; And theI plumb-rule, to try all uprights.Q. What are the immoveable jewels ?A. The trazel-board, rough-ashler, and broached.| thurnal.SQ. What are their uses ?A. A trazel-board, for the Master to draw hisdesigns upon ; rough-ashler, for the fellow-ci-aft totry their jewels upon ; and the broached-thurnal< for the Entered Prentice to learn to work upon.Q. Have you any lights in the Lodge ?A. Yes, three.Q. What do they represent ?A. The sun,- moon, and Master-mason.3 N.B.—These lights are three large candles, placedon high candlesticks.Q. Why so ?A. The Sun to rule the day, the Moon the night,i and the Master-Mason his Lodge.10Q. Have you any fixed lights in the Lodge ?A. Yes.Q. How many ?A. Three.N.B.—These fixed lights are three windows,supposed, though vainly, to he in every roomwhere a Lodge is held ; but more properly, by thefour cardinal points, according to the ancient rulesof Masonry.Q. How are they situated ?A. East, South, and West; to light the men to,at, and from their work.Q. Why are there no lights in the North ?A. Because the sun darts no rays from thence.Q. Where stands your Master ?A. In the East.Q. Why so ?A. As the sun rises in the East, and opens theday ; so the Master stands in the East, with hisright hand upon his left breast, being a sign, andthe square about his neck, to open the Lodge, andset his men to work.Q. Where stands your Wardens ?A. In the West.Q. What is their business ?A. As the Sun sets in the West, to close theday ; so the Wardens stand in the West, withtheir right hands upon their left breasts, being asign, and the Level and Plumb-rule about theirnecks, to close the Lodge, and dismiss the menfrom their labour, paying their wages.Q. Where stands the Senior Entered Prentice ?A. In the South.Q. What is his business ?A. To hear and receive instructions, and wel¬come strange brothers.11Q. Where stands the junior Entered Prentice ?A. In the North.Q. What is his business ?A. To keep off cowans and eves-droppers.Q. If a cowan or listener is catched, how is hoto be punished ?A. He is to be placed under the eves of the housesin rainy weather, till the water run in at his shoul¬ders and out at his shoes.Q. What are the secrets of a Mason ?A. Signs, Tokens, and many words.Q. Where do you keep those secrets ?A. Under my left breast.Q. Have you any key to those secrets ?—A. Yes.Q. Where do you keep it ?A. In a bone-box, that neither opens nor shutsbut with ivory keys.Q. Does it hang, or does it lie ?A. It hangs.Q. What does it hang by ?A. By a tow-line, nine inches or a span.Q. What metal is it made of ?A. No manner of metal at all, but a tongue ofgood report behind a brother’s back, or before hisface.N.B,—The key is the tongue, the bone-box theteeth, the tow line the root of the mouth.Q. How many Principles are there in Masonry ?A. Four.Q. What are they ?A. Point, Line, Superficials and Solid.Q. Explain them ?A. Point, the centre line, round which theMaster cannot err: Length, without breadth.—Superficials, length and breadth. Solid compre¬hends the whole.12Q. How many principal signs arc there ?A. Four.Q. What are they ?A. A Gutteral, the throat; Pectoral, the breast;Manuel, the hand ; Pedestal, the feet.Q. What do you learn by being a GentlemanMason ?A. Secrecy, morality, and good fellowship.Q. What do you learn by being an OperativeMason ?A. To hew, square, mould stone, lay a level,and raise a perpendicular.Q. Have you seen your Master to-day ?—A. Yes.Q. How was he cloathed ?A. In a yellow jacket, and a blue pair ofbreeches.N.B.—The yellow jacket is the compasses, theblue breeches is the steel points.Q. How long do you serve your Master ?A. From Monday morning till Saturday night.Q. How do you serve him ?A. With chalk, charcoal, and earthern pan.Q. What do they denote ?A. Freedom, fervency, and zeal.Ex. Give me the Entered Prentice’s Sign.Resp. Extending the four fingers of the righthand, and drawing them across his throat, is theSign, and demands a Token.N.B.—A Token is, by joining the ball of thethumb of the right hand to the first knuckle of thefore-finger of the Brother’s right hand, that de¬mands a Word.Ex. Give me the Word.Resp. I will letter it with you.Ex. BOAZ. N.B.—The Ex. says B. Resp. O.Ex. A. Resp. Z., e. BOAZ.13Ex. Give me another.Resp. JACHIN.N.B.—Boaz and Jachm were twoSolomon’s porch, 1. Kings, vii. 21.Q. How old are you ?A. Under seven. N(Denoting he has not passed Master.)Q. What is the day for ?A. To see in.I Q. What is the night for ?| A. To hear.Q. How blows the wind ?A. Due East and West.Q. What o’clock is it ?A. High twelve.pillarsV »FELLOW-CRAFT’S DEGREE.Q. Are you a fellow-craft ?A. I • n ••'1q Why was you made a fellow-crait.A. For the sake of the letter G.Q. What does that G denote '<!A. Geometry, or the fifth science.Q. Did you ever travel ?A. Yes, East and West.Q. Did you ever work ?A. Yes, in the building of the temple.Q.' Where did you receive wages ?A. In the middle chamber.q Through the porch, what did you see .A. Two great pillars.Q. What are they called ?A. J.R. i. e- Jachin and Boaz.14Q.A.Q.A.Q.A.Q.A.Q-A.Q.A.Q.A.Q.A.How high are they ?Eighteen cubits.How much in circumferance ?Twelve cubits.What are they adorned with ?Two chapiters.How high were the chapiters?Five cubits. (1. Kings, vii.)What are they adorned with ?Net work and pomegranetes.How came you to the middle chamber ?By a winding pair of stairs.How many steps ?Seven or more.Why seven or more ?Because seven or more make a just and per-Q.A.Q.A.feet Lodge.Q. When you came to the door of the middlechamber, who did you see ?A. A Warden.What did he demand of you ?Three things.What were they ?A Sign, Token, and Word.N.B.—The Sign is, placing the right handthe left breast; the Token is, by joining your right-hand to the person that demands it, and squeezinghim with the ball of the thumb of the first knuckleof the middle finger ; and the word is JACHIN.Q. How high was the door of the middle chainber, what did you see ?A. The resemblance of the letter G.Q. What doth that G denote ?A. One that is greater than you.Q. Who is greater than I, that am a Free ancAccepted Mason, the Master of a Lodge ?A. The Grand Architect and contriver of theUniverse, or ho that was taken up to the pinacloof the Holy Temple.Q. Can you repeat the letter G ?A. I will do my endeavour.Q. What means the letter G.Resp. In midst of Solomon’s Temple there standsa G.A letter fair to all to read and see;But few there be who understandsWhat means the letter G.Ex. My friend if you pretend to be,Of this fraternity,You can forthwith and rightly tellWhat means the letter G.Resp. By sciences are brought to light;Bodies of various kinds,Which do appear to perfect sight,None but males shall know my mindEx. The right shall.Resp. If worshipful.Ex. Both right and worshipful learn,To hail you I command,That you do forthwith let me know,As you may understand.Resp. By letters four, and Science five,This G upright does stand,In due art and proportion,You have your answer friend.N.B.—Four letters are BOAZ,—Fifth Science,Geometry.Ex. My friend you answer well,If right and free principles you discover,I’ll change your name from friend,And henceforth call you Brother.Resp. The Sciences are well composed;16Of noble structure’s verse,—A point, a Line, and an outside,But a Solid is the last.Good greeting be to this our bappy meeting,and all the right worshipful Brothers and Fellows.Ex. Of the Right Worshipful and Holy Lodgeof St. John’s.Resp. From whence came ?Ex. Greet you, greet you thrice heartily well,ci aving your name.Resp. Timothy Redicule.Ex. Welcome, Brother.N.B.—The reason why they denominated them¬selves of the Lodge of St. John’s, is, because he jwas the fore-runner of our Saviour, and laid thefirst parallel line of the gospel. Others do assort,that our Saviour himself was accepted a Free Mas- jon while he was in the flesh : but how ridiculousand profane it seems, I leave to the judicious11. deis to consider.End of the Fellow-craft's part.THE MASTER’S DEGREE.Q. Are you a Mason ?A. I am : Try me, prove me, disapprove me, ifyou can.Q. Where was you passed Master ?A. In a perfect Lodge of Masters. ;Q. What makes a perfect Lodge of Masters ?A. Three.Q. I low came you to be passed Master ?A. By the help of the square, and my own in¬i' dustry.IQ. How was you passed a Master ?A. From the square to the compass.Ex. An Entered Prentice, I presume, you havebeen.Resp. Jachin and Boaz I have seen,A Master-mason I was made most rare.With Diamond, Ashler, and the Square.Ex. If a Master-mason you would he.You must understand the Rule of Throe :IAnd M. B. (M. Benach) shall make you free,And what you want in Masonry,Shall in this Lodge he shewn to thee.Rcsp. Good Masonry, I understand,Keys of all lodges are at my command.Ex. You are a heroic fellow, from whence camoyou ?Resp. From the East.Ex. Where are you going ?Resp. To the West.Ex. What aro you going to do there ?Resp. To seek that which was lost, and is nowi found.Ex. What is that which was lost, and is now'i found.Resp. The Master-mason’s Word.Ex. How was it lost ?Resp. By three great knocks, or the death ofour Master Hiram.Ex. In the building of Solomon’s temple, howas Master-mason; and at high twelve at noon,when the men were gone to refresh themselves, aswas the usual custom, ho camo to survey the works ;and when he was entered into the Temple, therewere three ruffians fsupposed to be three Fellow-18crafts,) who planted themselves at the three en¬trances of the Temple ; and when he came out,one demanded the Mason’s Word of him, and hereplied, he did not receive it in such a manner ;but time and patience would bring him to it. Henot being satisfied with this answer, gave him ablow, which made him reel: Ho went to the othergate, where being accosted in the same manner,and making the same reply, he received a greaterblow ; the third gave him his quietus.Ez. What did the ruffians kill him with ?Resp. A Setting-Maul, Setting Tool, and aBeacle.Ex. How did they dispose of him ?Resp. They carried him out at the West doorof the Temple, and hid him under some rubbishtill high twelve.Ex. What time was that ?Resp. High twelve at night, whilst the men jwere at rest.Ex. How did they dispose of him afterwards ?Resp. They carried him up to the brow of ahill, where they made a decent grave, and buriedhim.Ex. When was he missed ?Resp. The same day.Ex. When was he found ?Resp. Fifteen days afterwards.Ex. Who found him ?Fifteen loving brothers, by order of King Solo¬mon, went out of the door of the Temple, anddivided themselves from right to left, within callof each other ; and they agreed, that if they didnot find the Word in him, or about him, the firstword should be the Master’s word. One of thebrothers being more weary than the rest, sat down19, 3to rest himself, and taking hold of a shrub, whichcame easily up, and perceiving the ground to havebeen broke, he hailed his brethren, and pursuingtheir search, found him decently buried in a hand-(some grave, six feet east, and six feet west, and sixfeet perpendicular, and his covering was greenmoss and turf, which surprised them ; whereuponithey replied, Majueus Domus Dei Gratia; which,ccording to Masonry, is, “ Thanks be given, ouriMaster has got a mossy house.” So they covered' im closely, and as a further ornament, placed arig of Cassia at the head of his grave, and wentd acquainted King Solomon.Ex. What did King Solomon say of all this ?Resp. He ordered him to be taken up and de-cntly buried ; and that fifteen Fellow-crafts, withbite gloves and aprons, should attend the funeral;which among Masons ought to be performed tothis day.Ex. How was Hiram raised ?Resp. As all other Masons are, when they re¬ceive the Master’s Word.Ex. How is that ?Resp. By the Five Points of Fellowship.Ex. What are they ?Resp. First, hand to hand ; second, foot to foot;bird, cheeck to cheeck; fourth, knee to knee ;Ifend fifth, back to back.N.B.—When Hiram was taken up, they tooknjiim by the fore-fingers, and the skin came offjlvhich is called the Slip : The spreading of theik'ight hand, placing the middle-finger to the wrist,:Jpasping the fore-finger and fourth to the sides ofIdle wrist, is called the Grip ; and the Slip is^placing the thumb of the right hand to the leftjjireast, extending the fingers.20Ex. What is the Master-mason named ?Itesp. Cassia is my name, and from a just andperfect Lodge I came.Ex. Where was Hiram entertained ?Resp. In the Sanctum Sanctorum.Ex. How was he brought in ?Resp. At the West door of the Temple.Ex. What are the Master’s Jewels ?Resp. The Porch, Dormer, and square pave¬ment.Ex. Explain them ?Resp. The Porch, the entering into the SanctumSanctorum ; the Dormer of the windows, or lightswithin ; the square pavement, the ground-flooring.Ex. Give me the Master’s Word ?Resp. Whispers in the ear, and supported bythe five points of fellowship, before mentioned,says Mackhenach, which signifies ‘ The builder issmitten.’N.B.—If any working Masons are at work, andyou have a desire to distinguish Accepted Masonsfrom the rest, take a piece of stone, and ask himwhat it smells of? He will immediately repljNeither of brass, iron, nor steel, but of a MasonThen ask him how old he is ? And ho will repljabout seven; which denotes that he has passedMaster.The end of the Master's Part.P.S.—I was induced to publish this mightySecret, at the request of several Masons, in orderto prevent credulous persons from imposition.21A PRAYER SAID AT THE OPENING OFA LODGE, BY JEWISH FREE-MASONS.IO LORD! excellent thou art in thy truth, andthere is nothing greater in comparison to theo ;for thine is the praise, from all the works of thyhands, for evermore. Enlighten us, we beseechthee, in the true knowledge of Masonry. By thesorrows of Adam, thy first made man—by the bloodof Abel, thy holy one—by the righteousness of Seth,in whom thou art well pleased,—and by tho cove¬nant with Noah, in whose architecture thou wastpleased to save the seed of thy beloved ; numberus not among those that know not the statutes, northe divine mysteries of the secret Cabballa. Butgrant, we beseech thee, that the Ruler of the Lodgemay be endued with knowledge and wisdom, to in¬struct us, and explain his secret mysteries, as ourholy brother Moses did (in his Lodge) to Aaron, toEleazer, and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron, and thoseventy Elders of Israel. And grant that we mayunderstand, learn, and keep all the commandmentsof the Lord, and this holy mystery, pure andundefiled unto our lives end.Amen, Loud.'4IN TUB PREFACE TO THE MISHNAW, WE FINDTRADITION OF THE JEWS EXPLAINED ASFOLLOWS,God not only delivered the law to Moses onMount Sinai, but the explanation of it likewise.When Moses came down from the Mount andentered into his tent, Aaron went to visit him,and Moses acquainted Aaron with tho laws he had22received from God, together with the explanationof them : After this, Aaron placed himself at theright hand of Moses, and Eleazer, and Ithamar,(sons of Aaron,) who were admitted, to whomMoses repeated what he had just before told Aaron.These being seated, the one on the right hand, theother on the left hand of Moses; the seventyelders of Israel, who composed the Sanhedrim,came in; and Moses again declared the same lawsto them, with the interpretations of them, as hehad done before to Aaron and his sons. Lastly,all who pleased, of the common people, were en-vited to enter, and Moses instructed them likewisein the same manner as the rest. So that Aaronheard four times what Moses had been taught byGod upon Mount Sinai; Eleazar and Ithamar,three times ; the seventy elders, twice; and thepeople once. Moses afterwards reduced the lawshe had received into writing, but not the explana¬tion of them ; these ho thought it sufficient to trustto the memories of the above-mentioned persons,who being perfectly instructed in them, deliveredthem to their children, and these again to theirs,from ago to age.The LAIRD OF LOGAN’S DESCRIPTION OFA NEW YEAR’S DAY AT LOGAN HOUSE.Ox Logan resuming his seat at the dinner table,the company began, open-mouthed, to rate him forthe liberty he had taken : to all which he listenedwith the greatest patience, till he was expected toreply. “ Gentlemen, fill your glasses, and I’ll giveyou a toast: ‘ may we always do as we ought to do.’You took the liberty of conferring upon mo the23honour of being your chairman, and I merely tookthe liberty of adding to that honour, by making you; my guests.—If I have done wrong, it was yourselveswho set me the example.— I have no other apologyi to offer; so, here’s wishing you all a merry new-yearwhenit comes.”—“Ah, Logan, Logan,” said;, Auldgavel, “you’re the old man, I see, and there’smo use talking to you ; so, here’s wishing you mayi spend the coming new-year as merry, but much'wiser, at Loganhouse, than you did last.” “Well,|l Auldgavel, I thank you for your friendly hint, fori,though it was owing to a mistake, I hope I shalllever see Loganhouse in such a state again. Youust know, gentlemen, that I was from home, andnly returned on Hogmanae, when I was told thereniwas no whisky in the house. Now, you know, at man may as weel try to baud a young naig withoutia tether, as baud new’rs-day without drink; so IIBold one of the men to go to Kilmarnock for a cask;cjind what does the drunken idiot do, but takes in theipour-milk barrel, and brings it hame fu’ to the bung,jdiat’s to say, as fu’s himsel;—for he kent so littleottbout what he was doing, that he filled a water-stoup’wi’ the drink, and left it in the kitchen ; as for thela-est o’t, every one that liked went to the barrel wi’aiis dish, and helped himsel’. The consequence was,«hat the men got a’ fu’, and they filled the women fu’.)i The porridge in the morning, by mistake, was madej'rom the whisky that was put in the water-stoup ;jiut as none of the servants could sup them, theyvere given to the pigs and the poultry. The pigsoon got outrageous, and set a-yelling in a mannerhat might have drowned the din of a hale reg’ment>f pipers, tearing one another’s snouts and lugs totters. The auld sow, trying to stand on her hindleet (for what folly will beast or body not do when24they get a drop in their head) fell into the trough,and a’ the rest came about, riving at her as if shehad been part o’ the breakfast. The ducks couldna’hand a fit. The geese 'were little better and whensuch broad web-footed worthies are so ill at thewalking, you may guess that the hens and turkeysmade a poor shift. Even the peacock and his ladyso far lost sight of their gentility, as to becomebirds of a feather wi’ their vulgar neighbours, andscreamed and staggered about through dub andmire, spoiling all their finery, that they were latelyso proud of displaying. The cock got better, butas for my lady, whether it was the vile mixtureshe had taken, or grief for destroying her rich dress,(for females you know, have a great regard for fineclothes) I cannot tell, but she never had a day todo well after it, but dwined awa’, and seemed to dieof a broken heart. Poor thing! r It’s a serious mat-;ter when females, who have been genteelly broughtup, forget themselves.—poor Lady Pea! she couldnever regain her standing in the barn-yard, forevery wide-mouthed drouthy rascal of a duck, evenwhen sweltering in a gutter, expected her to bohis boon companion.—In short, that morning therewas neither beast nor body about Loganhouse thatkent what they were doing, except the horses, andthey were all as sober as judges; but a horse, as youa’ ken, gentlemen, can carry a deal o’ drink.TINTS.Hi..