A COLLEClTiONCOVTAINIKa0¥Szc*xir.THE STOIIM.ALLY CTICAKER.THE BO ATI E ROWS.SONG OF THE MARINERMARCH TO THE BATTLE FIELDBONNIE MARY HAY.THE HERO MAY PERISH.EDINBURGH :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,OF SCOTLAflRA)|lJ1 he Storm.Cease, nwla Boreas, bIii*t.Vin£j raifier.List je lamismen all to iup,Me’smatcs, hear a brother sailorSing the dangers of the sea.From Imundms: billows first in motion.When the distant whirl winds'rise,To the tempest troubled ocean.Where the seas contend with skies.Hark ! the boatswain hoarsely bawling,—By top sail sheets and baulyards stand !Down top-gallants quick be hauling !Down your stay-s?uis, hand, boys, hand !Now it freshens, set the braces;Quick the *‘-r ■ ■*'■ 1 » :t - /r lull', don’t make wry faces;L'pyour top-sails nimbly clew.Now all you on down-beds sporting,Fondly lock’d in beauty’s arms,Fresh enjoyments wanton courting.Free from all but love's alarms,—Hound us roars the tempest louder; “Think what fear our mind enthralls :Harder yet, it yet blows harder;Now again the boatswain calls.The top-sail yards point to the wind, boys,See all clear to reef each course;Let the fomheets go;- don’t uiind, boy’s,Tb ugh the weather should be worse.2Fot-p aai] aft tk? *pnl-*ai1 yard grt ;Heef tlie mizi'U ; see all dear:IJaiui up ! eudi |)ievej}ter-i)race get;jJan tiie iore-vard; ciieer, lads, cheer fNow the dreadful thunder’# roaring !Penis on peal* contending clash !On our heads tierce rain falls pupring !In our eyes blue lightnings flash !One wide water all around us,AH above us one black sky I mDiiTVent deaths at once surround ns,Hark ! what means that dreadful er^ ?.The foremast’* gone, tries ev’ry tongue Out,O’er the lee, twelve feet ’bove deck:j\ It'alr beneatn itie enesi-nso, spruii'T out;Cali all hands to clear the - > °Quick the lanyards cut to pieces ;Come, my hearts, be stout and bold ;Plumb the Vvdi, the leak increases,Four feet Water in the hold.91VXi ': t > '{il . . Ills ■ -i -r.* 1. ‘ rt* 'Whde o’er the ship Wild waves are bsafirg.We for wives or children mourn ;Ahtf ! from hence there’s no reti earing ;.Alas ! from hence tin re’s no return,gull the leak is gaining on us.Both chain-pumps are ^chok’d below,Hrav’ii mercy now iipoti,us !For only that can save us now !4OVr (lie !ee-bew»i is the fand, bojj ;Let the guns o’erboard be thrown;To the pump come every hand, boys;See our mizen-mast is t,rone ;The leak we’ve found, it cannot pour fast ;W e’ve lighten’d her a foot or moreUp. aad rig a jury foremast ;Slie rights, she rights, boys ! wear off’shore.Now once more on joys we're thinking,Since kind fortune spar’d our lives :Come, the can, hoys, let’s be drinkingTo our sweethearts and our wives,.fFill it up, about ship wheel it ;Close to th’ lips a brimmer join ; i1Where’s the tempest now ? who (eels it?•None.» 8 in ?*-■+**** vhuiui iluOAlly Crraker. iThere livetl a man in fJalenacrozy, |4Vho wanted a wife—to make him uneasy :Long had he sigh'd for dear Ally Croaker,And thus the gentle youth bespoke her,“ Will you marry me, dear Ally Croaker ?”i his artless young man just come froirischoolery,A novice in Jove anti all its foolery;1 oo dull tor u wit; too grave for a ji'ker ;And thus the gentle youth liespbke her—“ Will you marry me, dear Ally Croaker?’1the!ie drank with the father, he talk’d with themother,!re rompt svith the sistcrj he gam’d with the bro¬ther,11 nd gam’d till he pawn'd his coat to the broker,|rhich lost him the heart of his dear Ally Croaker.) Oh ! the tickle, fickle Ally Croaker.i jo all you loung men who are fond of gaming,ind losing your money while others are saving;n tune’s a jilt, may the devil choak her,I jilt more inconstant than dear Ally Croaker.! Oh ! the inconstant Ally Croaker.The Boatie Rows.O weel may the boatie row.And better ,And liesoine may the beatio r<>..,That wins my bairns’ bread ;The boatie rows, the boatie rows,The boatie rows indeed ;And weel may the boatie row.That wins my bairns’ bread.When Jamie vow’d he wad be mine;And wan frae me my heart,O muckle lighter grew my creel,He swore we’d never part :The boatie rows, the boatie rows,The boatie rows fu' weel.And muckle lighter is the load,\V hart love bears up the eree).* £»Whi“H Sawrte-,', tloclt, ah' Jmietip,Are up ami gotten lair;ThevMI help to gar the Uo«tie row.Ami lighten a’ our care. ,!jThe boutie n>ws, the iKiatie rows,The. boutie rows lu’ wt-pl,Ami lightsome be her heart that bearsThe murlain and the creel,siiira.ig :o nfiol . t ■ >'*m gnuo; ooy llaAnti whan wf age we're worn do.vp.Ami hirpling round the ih/or, .;1 .They’ll help to keep us dry and warm,A* we did them he fore ; • :Then weel may the boatie row.She wins the bairns' bread.;And happy be ;he lot o’ a’.That wi-1* *op«ed.Song of the Mariner.Hurra ! along the foaming tide,With wild waves dashing round,ith furious speed I onwards ride,And love the roaring sound.Blow ! blow ! thou !ou<J and fearful wind !Roll on thou angry sea !I’ll drink to those I leave behind,—I’ll drink, Joanne, to thee 1O ! who would tremble at the stonn,Or, like the coward, weep?Td rather h'el my bosbf'4 warmAt "every If ngthtun d sweep.7Hu- w for tAf' -ria^Ui'H minH,'I fu- cWp ! the ilcop! for me.—(’il,drink to iho*$ 1 leave behind.I’ll drink, Joanne, to thee !^ove, dearest maid ! like mine ne’er shall||! In empty words depart;t still ^]Jal! flourish fresh and fair1 Within m_y faithful lieartiLres, there’s a power who dA'ells above,I1 Who guards the brave and free,Je sees, and will reward our love,: So here’s a health to thee !March lo the UtittU Field. .March to jhe battle field,The foe is now before us;3’ach heart is freedom’s shield,And heav’n is smiling o'er ns.f:j The woes-aj.d pa.ns...the galling chains.Which kept our spirits under.1 In proud disdain we’vt broke again.And lore each link asunder.March to the battle field, be.Who, for his country brave.Would fly Invar,the invader?| Who his base life to save,Would traitor-like degrade her?1 Our hallow’d cause, our home and laws,’Gains-t tyrant power sustaining,We’ll gain a crown of bright renown,I Or die our rights maintaining.March to the baNk* field, kc-fi.Bonnie Mary Hay.Bonnie Marj Hay I will loe thee yrt,Tor thy eye is the s!ae and thy hair is the jet;The snaw is thy skin, and the rose is thy ciieek,J3onnie Mary Hay I will loe thee yet. |Bonnie Mary Hay will you gang wi’ me, ^When the sun’s in the west, to the hawthorn treenTo the hawthorn tree in the bonnie berry deh, |And I'll tell you, Mary, how I foe you then ?Bonnie Mary Hay it’s holiday to me,When thou art coothie, kind, and free,There’s nae clouds in the lift, nae storms in thesky,Bonnie Mary Hay when thou art nigh.Bonnie Mary Hay thou manna say me nay, . iBut come to the bow’r by the hawthorn brae,But come to the bow’r, and I’ll tell ye a’ whalstrue,I ne'er can loe ony other but you.IThe Hero may Perish.The hero may perish, his country to save,And he lives in the records of fame ;The sage may the dungeons of tyranny brave—Ever honour’d and blest be his name !But virtue that silently toils or expires,No wreath for the brow to entwine;That asks but a smile—but a fond sigh Requires,', Q woman ! that virtue is thine. ^