THECl00[)0D0n□ Great Robber of England.W-HO WASMerry Life & Mad ExploicsOFCapt. James Hynd:THEa[)C)C)C)o0C)[)C)00[)[)[)[[)[)[)C)[)1)Drawn, Rang’d and Quarter'd,At Worcester, 1652.F 4 L K I R K:PRINTED BY T. JOHNSfON.i8ri.■<3n(3(3n(j-3a(3(3(3iTHE0MERRY LIFE ARD MADE EXPLOITS' "■ ^ tOFCAPTAIN JAMES HYND*/T' A'PTAIN j.lmes Hynd. tlie fubj’£1 of^ ouc enfaing diiccuffe, was born atChipping-Noitoun, in Oxfordfhire. —Hisfather ^ having no more children but him,put him to fchboj,. iutendiug to make him -a(ibhplar; but he miodiag his waggilh'.pafiimes more than his books, which hisfather perceived, bound him apprentice tou butcher: Put he being of a- roving djifpo-'fition, foon grew weary of that alfo; and,in. couciuSon, run away from his mailer,and went to London; where he becameacquainted with a company of roving anddebauched; companions, who, by their ex¬amples, made him as bad as themfelves.—Jhort, as they feldom abounded with(3 )money, fo they (corned to be Ion" in want;when their (lock grew fhort, they fet outin fearch of more. — At lad this companywas dilfolved, by their chief being hanged ;and Hynd efcaped with fcnly the lofs ofhis horfe: And then he/et up himielf.2. Hyssd having lod his horfe, whenhe made his efcape, was refolved to get;one, or follow his trade on foot. Hismader’s misfortune grieVed him much, yethe quickly cad it out of his rpitid : And.to colour his knavery, he puts himfelf inthe habit of a fhepherd, wi(h a long pike-daffin his hand, and fo travels towards Ban¬bury ; where, in his way, he efpied a gentle¬man coming down a hill, leading his horfein his hand. — Hynd dood at the foot ofthe hill, whittling a pfalm-tune.When/the gentleman came to the foot of the hill,,where H>nd dood whittling, he afk’d himttic time of the day ? Hynd anfwered himvery civily; but as the gentleman wasgetting on his horje, Hynd hit him withhis long pole, fucb a broke between thehead and the (boulders, that he made himtumble on the ground.—Hynd immediatelyfeized his money, cloakj horfe and (word;and left him his old coat, and his pike-ftaffto hit cn the hoof^as he had done; givinghim twenty (hillings back to bear his charges.But, to this day, the gentleman loves notto hear a pfaltn-tfune fung.3. Hynd having gotten a good fum ofmoney at this time, fpent the day verymerrily; and then, towards night, he rodeto an inn, which Hood in a private road,where it feems feme highwaymen haunted.After he had feen his horfe carefully .dreftand fed, he came into the houfe, wherewere two handfome ladies by the fire : Heordered a good fupper to be made ready,and invited the ladies to fup with him.—When fupper was ready, he called for wineand made them merry.—They Teemed very^oy to him, but he, knowing their humours,pulled out a purfeof gold, faying, “ Ladies,where are your hearts gone ? Look ye whatis here ! — And after much mirth, to bedhe went. —Soon after he was in bed, twomen came to the Inn, who kept thefe whores,to whom they related all Hynd’s courtefy,and that he had a great abundance of gold.The gentlemen refolved to watch his de¬parture ia the mormng, and follow him:( 5 )But Hynd awaking early, got up, and wasmourned before the ladies and gentlemenwere ftirring. When the' two gentlemenheard his horfe prance, 'they looked out atthe window, and feeing he had fo gooda horfe, they were like to fall out whafhould have him. — I will have the horfe,faid the one, and you fliall have his money.Nay, Pll have his horfe, fays the other.—Then they quickly made themlelves ready,and r<Ve after Hynd. — When they hadovertaken him, they afked him which wayhe rode ? He anfwered. Towards Cam¬bridge. The told him, they would be gladof his Company. — When they were cometo a place where no people were nigh, oneof the gentlemen began to fmg, “ Maids,where are your hearts now gone ? — Lookwhat is here.”— Hynd feeing their intent,and knowing he was betray’d, immediatelyapfwer’d, Low, you rogues, you are bothundone ! Look you what here is ! — Anddrawing forth his plftol, and firing at oneof them, by chance Ihot his horle in thehead, who prefsntly fell down, with hismailer’s leg under him.—The other feeingthis, took himfelf to flight; but Mr. Ilymiquickly overtook him, and made ifin tie-' { 6 )liver what money he had: And culling Idsgirths and bridle, gave him work enoughso catch h'ts horfe again.—Hynd then rodeto the other fellow, .Till lay as he fell,and alighting, pull’d horfe off his leg,■helped him up, and T it what money hehad atfo, faying, What, is there but onemafler-thicf in all England, and would you.venture to rob him ? Verily, were you hot■of ray, profejfion, neither of you fiiouidhave lived; but feeing you ventured hardfor it, thou deleryeth fomething: So Hyndgave him his money back again, to buy-him another horfe, faying, Difgrace notyourfelves with' frnali fums, bua aim atgreat ones ; for the lealt will bring you tothe gallows. — So Hynd fiiaking the poorthief bv the hand, left him to his partner,to affill him in catching his horfe, andbid him fare we!.4. After Hynd had robb’d the twothieves of their money, he chanc’d to rideto Hartfield, where lying at the George-Inn,being then the Polt-houfe, he very merrilyfpent the evening with fome gentlefnen thatwas there. — In the morning early, Hyndcalls for his horfe to be gone, add- took hisleave of the gentlemen, who were begin-r.ing to ftir : And as he rede alonji Hart-field, an old Ill-favoured woman afke-d almsof him; his horfe prefc;nily ilayed, andwould go no farther. S;r, faid the offwoman, I have fomething to fay to you,and then ye (hall be gone. Hynd not Idcingher countenance, pulled out Five Shillingsand gave, her, thinking (he would but, l;k.;a gypfie, tell bis fortune, faying, Goodwoman, lam in hafte. Sir, faid file, 1have ftay’d all this morning to fpeak witliyou, and would you have me to lofe mylabour?—Speak your mind, fid !se?—Whereupon the old woman began f.us~'Captain Hynd, you ride and go in many• dangers : Now, by my poor {kill, I hatfethought on a way to preferve you for tilefpace of three years ; but that time being' pall, you are no more than an ordinaryman, and a mifchance may fall on youns well as another: But if you be in Eng¬land,' come to me, and I will renew thevirtue of this charm -gain. In'faying ofthefe words, fine pulled out of her pocketa little boo;, p.lnn/d like a Scm-dial, andgav# it to Captain Hynd, and faid untohim, When you are in any diilrcfs, opentins box; and that way you fee the ftsr turn,jide or go, you fhall efcape all dangers.—So file Avirched him with a white rod thatvas in her hand, and flruck the horfe onthe buttock, and bade him farewell.—The horfe prefently leapt forward withfuch courage, that Hynd could not turn himto give her thanks; but gurlling that it washer will it fhould be fo, rode on his way,5. A gentleman coming from York,intending for London, by accident met withJiynd, who foon made him deliver what hehad. — Hynd gave him back 20 Shillings,for to bear his charges, till his own creditfhould be better fettled.— So the gentlemanrode on his journey to the next town,where he was well known by the Inn¬keeper there. — Being alighted from hishorfe, he defir’d the hoft to get ready fomefupper, and went to his chamber. — In themeantime in comes Hynd, and afks if therewere any gentlemen there for London?—The holl anfwered^ that there was onegentleman there alone, and he would beglad of good company.—So Hynd went upto the gentleman’s chamber and faluted him.The gentleman faid. Sir, fit down, and I%( 9 ) .will tell you how I was robbed to-day:Fdurft have fworn that you was the man,but that I fee your hair is Jhort, and hiswas long.—Sir, faid Hynd, would you knowthe horfe ? Yes, very well, faid the gentle¬man.—To fatisfy you, faid Hynd, you {hallfee mine. — So Hynd went to the ftable,took out his horfe, and mounted him, andthen alkcd the gentleman if that.was thehorfe? He anfwered, 1,1, that is the horfe.Then, faid Hynd, I cannot fup with youthis night, if you my horfe better thanmyfelf.—So bids him good-night. .6. Hyud being informed of a purchafe,as he rode, efpied fome gentlemen drinkingat an ale-houfe on horfe-back, having fenttheir fervants before : Hynd palfed by them,but riding at a good rate, he quickly over¬took the gentlemen’s fervants, who rodebut eafily. — Hynd, by their port-mantles,faw there was money in them, and defir'dthem to deliver it, or they were all deadmen.—They, not being ufed to fight, fur-rendered.-r-Hyod knowing that delays aredangerous, with his knife he cut open theirport-mantles, and took out the money;and tying the bigs Together, laid them be-( IO \fore him, and rede off with fpeed.—One ofthe Servants rode and acquainted /is mailer;avho prefentiy purfueci Hynd.—Bat Hyndobierving hiin coming up, and he meetinga Parion, faid to him, Sir, that fellow youyou fee coming up, intends to rob me cfmy money, you mull hand to it now, forthe fafety of your own as well as mine :—Come, Sir, be of good cheer, one.honeflman will fear ten thieves; you lhall have-one of my piftols.—?o he gave the parfotithe piftoi ready cach’d and charg’d, anddefined him to fire it at the finl who cameisp to him, while I, fays he, ride down tothe next village, and raife ' the countrypeople to our help. — The Parfon havingtaken a cup too muon at a wedding, waspot-valiant, and rode up to the gentlemen,an fired his piffol at them ; but being toofar off, did no execution. Pie rods nearer,and Hung his piltol at one of them withfuch force, as almoft knocked him olf hishorie. The gentleman feizsd on him, andtook him prifoner.—The Parfon then criedout, O fpare my life ! and you fhall haveall my money.—hjo, Sirra, find the gentle¬man, we will have you hang’d. -— What,a Parfon, and rob on the highway!—Then( II )they immediately carried him before thenext Jaftice of the Peace, which was notfar off.—When they were come before theJuftice, they told him that they were robbedof two hundred pounes, arid hat the Parfotiwas one of the robbers. — The Juflice wasgreatly furprifed, that fuch apparent tefti-mony lhauld come aVainlt the Parfon ofthe parifl-i. —The Pirlbn by/this time wits' come to himfelf, and deftred'tlre Jaftlce togive him leave to fpeak for himfelf. — Hebeing allowed to fpeak, faid to theSir, you have known me thefe twenty years',, and no man can fay I have Wronged himof a penny, much less this which is laid tomy charge. Sir, I fhall ted you fo muchas I know of the bufmefs. As I was ridingon my way home, I met a man who hadtwo bags of money before Jura-, who told methat thieves purfaed him, and he dtfired,my help, faying. That I need not fear, forone honefl man would beat ten thi ves :— «So he gave me a piftot charged, cockt, aridprim’d, and bade me fire at the fir(tThat ,came on, while he would go and ra:fed thecountry men to assist us. So When thefegentlemen came down the hi!1, I rode upto them, and fired the pistol at one cubed ;v( 12 )When I had fo done, I flnng it at thisgentleman’s, head, thinking ,Cy had been<ih tnieves. Sir, tins is sil that X know ofthe matter. Tlren the Justice laugh'dheartily to fee the Parfon of the parifhapprehended for a highwayman ; but thepoor Parson was oblig’d to give promifeto appear the next assize : Who, when hewas brought before the bench, he wascleared. Bui he made a vow, never tolire a piftoi again. ' /7. Hynd overtook a gentleman, as herode on the road. So they fell in difcourfe,and the gentleman faid, he would" givetwenty pounds to fee Hynd.—But, as theywere riding, the gentleman fancy’d Hynd’shorfe.—Sir, faid the.gentleman, what moneylhall I give you to exchange horfes with me ?Forty pounds, Sir, faid Hynd.—I will giveyou thirty pounds and this horfe I ride on.Bat as they rode along, there was a ditch;Sir, faid Hynd, leap over this ditch : Icannot, faid the gentleman. Hynd defiredthe gentleman to alight: So he got on hisown horfe, and leapt over the'ditch ; andwhen he was cm the other fide, he laid,Sir, you faid you would give twenty pounds( 43 )to fee Hynd, and now you have feen him •,the other ten pounds was for riding myhorfe : Now l think you have feen enoughof him, and fo farewell.8. A Parfon riding from Coventrytowards London, by petty thieves wasrobbed of his filver; but having 40 poundsof gold about him, refolved to go on hisjourney : And as he rode, Hynd overtookhim, and alked the Parfon which way hetravelled ? The Parfon told him, that heintended for London : But, faid he, I wasalmoft prevented; for to-day I wv. robbedof five pounds of iilver, and the knavesleft me but five ihillings in all to bear mycharges. Sir, faid Hynd, I was robbed ofa little filver to-day; a man may as goodlet them have it quickly, as to dangerouflyrefill: But I was cunning enough to hidemy gold in my boots before-hand. — Nay,I believe, faid the Parfon, mine is as fafe;for I have twilted it in the collar of mydoublet.—Hynd was not a little glad whenhe heard where his gold lay; but beingnear their Inn,-they fupt together, and wentto bed.—In the morning, the Parfon called*for Hvnd up, and told he would be glad ofI( I4 )his company.—After breakfail, they rodetogether: Hynd aiked the Parfon, if hecould guefs what trade he was of? No,faid'the Parfon.—Then, faid Hynd, I ama cutter; for I muft cut the collar of yourdoublet off, before I fhall come' at yourmoney.—Having fo done, he left the Parsonforty pounds lighter than he found him.9.' Hynd riding through a little townin Warwickfhire, faw a tumult in the Ilreet.So he rode up to them, to know the occafion.One told him, that an honefi: Inn-keeperwas undone, if he did not get fpeecly relief;Hynd goes to the man, and told him, if hecould give him fecurity, «he would pay themoney for him.—The poor man being verymuch overjoyed at this unlook’d-for news,told him that he would make over all thathe had for his fecurity.— So Hynd got theold Usurer, who was purfuing him, andthe two Bailiffs, into the houfe, and defiredthe bond; paid the Usurer all he demanded,giving the Bailiffs their fees, and cancelledthe bond.—Hynd lent for an Attorney tomake over the Inn-keeper’s goods to him-felf: Which being done, they parted.—•Hynd being not unmindful to enquire the( *5 )road that the Usurer was to go, went afterhim, and overtook him in a convenientplace.—Friend, faid he, I lent you twentypounds a little ago, but I must needs have itagain.—The Usurer faid. You paid me fomuch on a bond—Sir, faid Hynd, there isno time to difpute it now.—So Hynd tookfrom the old Usurer the twenty pounds,and twenty more that he had got by usury,and rode back to the Inn-keeper, and gavehim his bond again,- and five pounds ofmoney, telling him, that Ife had good luck,by lending to honest men. —The Usurercame afterwards to the Inn-keeper* thinkingto get fome money oft’ him ; but the Inn¬keeper did beat him almost to death, facing.You rogue, l am engaged in all that I have,for the payment of the money, and if yoube robbed, must I pay again ? I will, I will,I will — So that was all the poor Usurercould get for his'comfort.10. Afilr a day or two, y.vnd rodeinto Buckinghamshire, wLfcre he was ac¬quainted with many -ef the gentlemen inthat County : And passing away the time, ,till his opportunity ferved him, it was hischance to go near Chalk-hill:—Hynd espied( *6 ,)a little before him, a Captain and his fer-vant, who were alighted to walk down thehill. — The Captain gave his horse to hisman, and bade him stay at the siile till hecame down.—The Captain having occafionto untruss a point, fat under a fniall hedge;Hynd watching his opportunity, rode foftlytill he came near the Captain, and feeinghim have good cloaihs, he rode hastily upto him, and bid him deliver.—The Captainwas amazed at Hynd’s fudden approach,who held a pistol to his breast, desiring himto make no delay.—The Captain requestedtime to truss up, which Hynd granted ;and then faid, Your money, Sir!—TheCapfain feeing he could not fave his purseby delays, deliver’d him 30 pieces ©f gold.Hynd faid, Sir, I take this in part; I shallnot be too mercenary on you at this time:Then he rode down the hill, where theCaptain’s man stay’d with his master’shorse.—Hynd faid, Sir, is that your mastero the hill ? He’ answer’d him, Yes, Sir.Then faid Hynd, I feldom take any thingfrom the master,- but I give the fervantfomething : So giving him ter. Shillings,Here is fomeihing for thee, faid he, to drinkmy health; and tell thy master my nameis Hynd.( i7 )ii. Hynd, travelling up and down thecountry, met with a lusty young fellow,whom he had formerly known; and, askinghim feme questions, among the rest he faid,Jack, if thou wilt live with .me, thou fhalthave money at command, or any thingthou wantest. — Jack, knowing partly histrade, gave consent.-^Hynd then presentlybought a good horse for his man, and fur¬nished him with clothes, fword, and a fmalipistol.—Being well fitted out, away th^yrode towards Nottingham: And, on theirway, they chanc’d to come to an Inn,where a gentleman and his fervant werejust come before them.—Hynd rode tothe ftable-door, where the hostler was tak¬ing off the other gentleman’s portmantie :The hostler faid, This is but a little port-mantle, but it is very heavy.-—Hynd tookgood notice of it, and faid to his man Jack,Enquire which way this gentleman travelsto-morrow.-—So Hynd went in; and whenfupper was ready, they went to Tapper to¬gether. — After the gentleman had tupped,the fervants fell to; and Hyhd’s man givesthe gentleman’s fervant a pint of fack:And, after fupper, Jack gives him fomeSpanish tobacco; and now they began to( IS )foe great acquaintance:—So they went bothinto the flable, to fee their horses drest.—Jack asks the ■'gentleman’s fervaht, whichWay the,y rode in the morning? He told him,toward London: My master, fays Jack,rides that way too, I think.—Now Jackhaving as much as he desired, went to feewhat his master wanted;—Hynd desiredhis man to get his slippers ready, and pulledoff his boots ; which being done, he takesleave of the gentleman, and goes to .hisbed-chamber, where Jack told him whatroad the gentler-m was going next day.—•In the morning Hynd fet off first, but thegentleman flay’d breakfast, and then fet off;and riding by a wood, where Hynd andhis man lay m ambush for him, Hynd rodeout t® the gentleman, and with his caneflaps him o’er the pate, faying, Have Inothing to do but to wait upon you, Sir?|k Jack takes cff the portmantle, faying, ’Tisvery heavy, master. — Sir, Lid Hvnd tothe gentleman, you are ill-beloved in thecountry, that you cannot get gold for yourfilver—Jack rode back to the gentleman’sfervant, and ftricks him over the pate*faying, You rogue, must I fpoil my horse,carrying your pbrtmantle,„must I, must I,X.( s? )you rogue, you.—So Hynd and his fervaafrlooking one at another,' almost amazed acthis fudden accident, they made no delaytill they were at a good distance from thethe gentleman and his fervant.—After theyhad rode all * e by-ways, that none mightknow how to follow them, and coming toa place where they knew themselves lafe,they looked into the portmantle, wherethey found one hundred and fifty pounds l.Which was a good morning’s work.iz. A Committee-man having occafiotsto travel to London, for to buy fome com¬modities, hearing that there much robberycn that road, dress’d himself in an Oidgray<oat, out at the elbows, and mountedcn an old mare, with a pair of old boots,not worth threepence.* Being thus meanlymounted, he fet out very happy, thinkingno highwayman would fet on him. Butmoney ill gpt, will be ill fpent; for hechanced to meet with Hynd, who afk’d himwhat he was ? He answered,T hat he wasan old man going to get relief amongst hisfriends. So Hynd gave him a piece^of gold,and bade him drink his health. i he oldmifer thinking to please Hynd* coined outtwo or three great oaths prefently, and faidhe would get drunk with drinking his health,at the firft Inn he came to. Hynd partedwith him, and the old mifer coming to an( )Inn, put up his mare, and called for a platof fack. After the firft glass was over, hebegan to fay, that he had narrowly efcapedthe greatell danger that ever he was in :For, faid he, I met with Hynd ; and infteadOf robbing me, gave me & piece of gold,'and bid me drink Ms health: But I willfee him hang’d, ere I fpend one penny forhis fake. Hang him, rogue ! he robs allhoneft men, only Cavaliers he lets go.—I’ll put his gold among mine own.—I wouldhave given ten pounds to have been rid ofhim, when firft I met. with him. So, aftera ftiort fupper, going to bed, Hynd came .to the Inn, ufing to ly there, as a travellernot known. The hoft told him in whatfear an old Committee-man was to-day,who faid, he had met with Hynd, who gavehim money to drink his health ; but he faid,he would fee him hang’d firft, and calledhim a rogue a thousand times.—Hynd tookfupper, and went to bed; and let the oldman travel firft in the morning: and aboutan hour after, Hynd rode after him.—-When he had overtaken him, he alked theold man if he drank his health ? Yes,faid he; I was never fo drunk all my life,as I was last night; for I drank the King’shealth, the Queen’s health, the Prince’s,and your health, ten times over.—Hvndfa:d to him, friend, I have found you outin many lies; and now I will make you( 2£ )call me rogue for fomething.—Thenmade him untye his greasy napsack, wherehe found fifty pieces of gold, and his ownpiec^beside. — Now, the Committee-man,to chear up himself, resolves to borrow asmuch pff the State before he went anotherjourney.—Hynd faid, the fooner you get it,the better for me, if I meet with you again.13. Htnd being well equipp’d, andmounted on his horfe, went one eveninginto Hyde-park to fee fi je fport; andriding up and down tne Park, he efpy’da bag of money beside a gentleman ina coach, with whom Hynd ufed fome dif-course about the race that was to be run :But the Yace beginning, the gentleman ^caused his coach to Hand ftill, that he mightjudge what horse ran best. Hynd’s mindijot being idle, rode ro the coach, took thebag in his hand, and fet off. —The gentle¬man presently missing his money, cried out,Stop him, flop him, I am robb’d. —Manyrode after him, especially the Captain whomhe robb’d at Chalk-hill, who pursued bard.Hynd riding by St. James’s, fsid to tieSoldiers, 1 have wqn the wager!—But byholding his bag fas«, his cloak fell off;which he left for them that came next, heriding the by-way, fo he left them ; but,when he came to his companions, he faid,he never earn’d a hundred pounds fo dearin his life.( 32 )14. Hynd, having, committed manyrobberies, was constrained to leave Englandand go for Holland. — Now, being in aftrange country, and rot having fo goodopportunities to rob on the highway as hehad in England, fell into want of money.So hearing of a rich mountebank that wentabout quaking, and who never went with¬out (lore of money ; his napis was Henryvan Velds : he was fomewhat fortunate incures, therefore greatly employed by all.—' This mountebank coming tovifit fome of hispatients in divers parts of the city, havingreceived fums of money for particular cures,Hynd watching him, as he^past througha by-ftreet, he-runs to him in haste, andfalutes him, in a kindly manner, thus,Sir, I heard much of your renown in curesof dangerous consequences, and feeing it ismy happiness to meet with you, as I livenot far from this place, if you please to goalong with me to my house, 1 have a wifemuch troubled with the flux in her bellythese fourteen days.; and you, by yourexperience, may do her much good, if voupieise-togive her a visit: I humbly requestvou to go alpng with me,.and what regardyou desire, l Ihall willingly give you.—This bell founding well in his ears, he goeswith Hvnd to his lodging, and by the wayeives Hvnd great comfort, laying, Sir, youmay depend upon it, i fhalluse my utmost( =3 )ikill to recover your wife from her disorder:So Hynd leads him from oneftreet to another,till at last he got within his lodging; whichwas fo contrived, that it Hood at fome dift-ance from any other house.—Having lockedthe door upon themselves, he takes in theone hand a pistol, and in the other a greatempty purse, and, looking furiously uponthe mountebank, he faid, Sir, here is mywife, [meaning his empty purse), ihe hathbeen a long time ^troubled with a flex' inher belly, and you are the only man -.atcan remedy it: You must therefore hndout a remedy to cure this disease, or elseI myself, by the help of this pistol, amresolved to remedy it —The mountebankfeeing himself thus cunningly and fuddenlyfurprised, b: gan to cry out, but was presentlyfilenced by the fight of the pistol, and wasfain, for feaf, to let go his purse to curefHynd’s, which h *d the flux.—Bat, accord¬ing to Ms \vomed cuarity, feeing the manin this trembling condition, restored himfome of the money again, promising to con¬voy him home to his lodging, and rode withhis pistol cock’d, for fear of any out-cry;and in the midway left him to find out hislodging himself.15. Hrsn beinv very weary of Hayinglong in a place (hipped himself or Scotland,where he landed, and presented his fervice( 24 ) .to the King at Stirling. — The King beinginformed who he was^ h»d fome discoursewith him, and commended him to the Dukeof Buckingham ; then preferred him to ridein his troop, because his-life-guard was full.He came into England with the fame troop,was in the engagement at Warington, cameto Worcester-fight, and flayed till the Kingwas fled.—Hynd being in the city, and feeingthe gates full of flying persons, leapt overthe wall on foot, and travelled through thecountry alone. — He lay three Jays undgrbushes and hedges, because of the foldiery;and afterwards he came to Sir John Paking-ton’s woods, where he lay five days; andfrom thence he came on foot to London,and lodged five weeks very fecurely : But,on November 9, 1651, a discovery wasmade of Captain Hynd’^ frequenting oneDeuy’s, a barber, over against St. Dunstain’schurch, in Fleet-ffreet, who went by thename of Brown Frcm this information,the Mr. Speaker of the House of Commonsgot him apprehended. — He was examinedconcerning his.late engagements withCharlesStewart, and where he had el'caped.—H nddeny’d having any knowledge of him, fmcethe battle at Worcester.—But other crimesbeing brought against him he was fentencedto be drawn, bang’d a>id quarter’d, on FridaySep. 16,1652, and fuffrred accordingly.FINIS,