BRIDE’S BURIAL,OK, THEAffectionate Lovers,A True Love Song,FALKIRK: Printed f-v T\ JOHNSTON. ^18 jo.THE *E RIDE’s BURIAL.• *Come mourn, edmc mourn with me,ye loyal Lovers ali;Lament my lofs in weeds of woe,whom gripping death doth thrall.Like to the dropping Vine,cut by the gardener’s knife,Even fo my heart, with for row fbin,doth mrurn for rny fwest wife.*•, _ . . n* y ■■ % -By Death, that grizly Ghoft,my turtle dove was Ham,And I am lift, unhappy man,to fpend my days in vain.H 'r b auty, late fo bright,like rofes in their prime,Is wafted i ke the mountain fnow,v fj. ce of P. oebus fhine.( 3 )Her fair and coloured cheeks,now pale and wane; her eye*,That late did (bins like chryftal ftars,alas ! their light how dies.Her pretty lilly hands,with fingers long and fniall,In colour like the early dew,yea, cold end ftvff withal.When, as the morning gjy,her golden gates had Ipread,And that the glittering Sun arofe,forth from Thetis's bed jThen did my love awake,mod like the lilly flower,And as the lovely Queen of May,fo Ihone flic io her bower.0Attired.was fhe then,like Flora in her bower,Fair as any of Diana’s nymphs,fo look’d my lovely flower.And as fair Helen’s facegave Grecian dames the lurch,( 4 )So did my dear exceed, in figl.t,all ihe virgins in the church.When we had kn;t th-1 krsntof h ly wedlock bands.Like alab ’fler join'd to wine,fo flood we hand in hand.Then lo ! a chilling: cold^ *ftriK.k ev’ry vitul part,And giipphng grief, hkc pangs of death,feiz’d on my true, love's heart!Down in a i'woo'i fhe fell,as cold as any (lone,Like'Venus’ pitfurt wanting life,lb was my love brought home.At length a rofy redthroughout her comely face,As Pi osbus’ beams with wat’ry cloudo’tixover’d for a fpace.Then, with a grievous groan!and voice both hoarfe and diy,Farewel, quoth flie, my lovely friends,for 1 this day muft die !' ; ' I f)( 5 )The MefTenger of Deathwith golden trump I fee,Wirh many other angels more,which found and call for me.Inflead of mufic fwect,go ring my palling bell,,And with i’wect flowers ftraw my grave,that in my chamber Imell.Strip off my bride's array,my cork (hoes frc m my feet,And gentle mother be fo kindas to bring my winding*fheet.My wedding-dinner dreft,beflow upon the poor,And to the hungry, blind and lame,that craveth at the door,Inftead of Virgins young,my bride's bed for to fee,Go caufe fome curions carpenterto make a cheJl for me.My broad laces of fdkbelow on maidens m€et,<May fitly fervc, when I am dc^Jto tie my hands and feet.And thou my lover true,my hufband and my friend.Let me intreat thee here to ftayuntil my life doth end.Now leave to talk of love,and humbly on your knees,Diredl your prayers to God,and mourn no more for me:In love as we have liv'd,in love now let us part;And l in token of my love,kits thee with all my heart.Oh! ftaunch this bootlefs tear,thy weeping is in vain;I am not lofi, for we in hpav’n(hall one day meet again.With that {he turn'd afide,as one dispos'd to fleep,And like a lamb departed life,while friends did forely weep( 7 )Her true love Teeing this,did fetch a grievous groan,jAs tho> his heart would burft inlv/o,and thus he mauc his moanjOh! difmal unhappy day!a day of grief and care,That hath bereav’d me of my love| whofe beauty was fo fair.I'nuiz hot* inr wodi\Tow woe unto the world,and r.ll therein that d\vcll ;! that ( v/rre in heaven,for here 1 Jive in hell,\iand now this lover livesa difeontented life,iVhofc bride was b ought unto the gravea miiden and a wife.i garland frefli and fairof hides there was made,p figns of her virginity,and on her coffin laid.hx msidens all in whitedid bear her to the ground■c.The bells did ring in folemn fort,and made a doleful found.In earth they laid her then, ,for hungry worms a prey;So fhali the faircfl face aliveat length be brougkt to clay.>*»>r ~ ' 1!Thus do you fee by this,ho'-y frail in life and grace;Now Heaven bids us n!! prepare- for that bkfl happy place.F J N J S.FALKIRK:PRINTED RY T. JOHNSTON.'l8lO.