DREAMS AND MOLES,OR,A NEW AND CURTOU3Fortune Bzok,BOTH FORMEN,MAIDS, W; VfcS & WIDOWS.——PLAINLY AND TRU1 T RESOLVING{After a iuw and in^anx «• Method) whetherLite be u,ag or eh .rr •, happ<- or unhappy *, p^r©t nc? : W'lth th crae oum er ot sve» andHusband*, good or bad, with Children, Setra^n^Health, bickneil, Houer and Jjishonov f riend*,and Enemies, ffee good or erii Suece»* of, short or long Joumte* b ( Land, or Voyage* byI Sea j and all ether thing* relating to life or death,HI |o Persons of both Sexe* throughout the whalei;i course of their live*, from the cradle to the grave.6TO WHICH I* ADBKD,IThe Signification* of DUllAii-i and M^LES;with e variety of iccret* both for young Maidsand Widow*,Stirling •, Printed by M.\ACroat's vwrtb of WitF®R APENNY.eHow a man or maid {hall know theirdream, whether they {hall hay®them they love, or not.IF a maid love* a man, and drearnaihe i» going to church with ano¬ther man, and that Ihe rum from him,he will aiTuredly haye the man ihcdefireth $ tut if the dmra (he geethoto church with the other maa, {hemU not haye the man ihe lovcth. Ifiihe man dreams any thing which he•a allured is like the aforeCdd, it de¬notes the like fortune.4Tii« Signification of MOLES.IF a man has a mole oppofite the] *fceait, it fhews him vicious ; if a wo¬man has one on the lame place, iChews the fame. Ii a man hasmole on the neck, it fignifics he fhabecame very rich, it a woman thlike. If a man has a mole behithe neck, it dcmonftrates he (hallbe beheaded, except God (through]earaeft prayers) prevent the fame.If a man or woman have a mole oncither lip, it denotes gluttony. A f';mole on a man’s chin denotes be 1ihall bs rich both in money and gof- 11101feffions; the woman having a moleon the £tme place, demonftrates (he(hall have like faecefs, and that fhehath lilcewife a mole oppoG^e themelt or fpleen: if a man have amole on the car?, it (hews he ihailbe rich, and very much reverencedand well fpoken of; the like to awoman ; if a man or woman havea mole on the loins, it denotetha weak and poor kindred, as well asvery great want; if a mole be feenon both the Ihoulders ef a man, lethim beware of imprilonment; if aman have a mole oo the throat, itfhews he fhall marry a rich and beau¬tiful wom?.n ; if a woman have oneon the fame place, it (hews Die ftullmarry both a wealthy and comelyman; if a mole appear on the handof either man or woman, it fliewsprofperity, and erjoyment of chil¬dren ; if a man or woman have amole on the bredft, it fhe^a muchlofs and poverty ; if either man orwoman have a mole on the bottom€of the bftHy, it argues w^abcefs,Ikkneff, and forrow j if a m^c oncither man or wcrnac be near theprivate it fhews unfpe?kablee^^ctoulnef?; if a woman has amcle on the right knee, it fhews herhonefl and vimicus ; if on the leftknee fhe will h^ve many children; amole on tlie ancle of a man fhews thathe fhtll take on him the woman’spart, ii: a woman h»s one on the fameplace ir fhers that flic will be defir-cus;o rule, taking the man’s psrr j Ifeither fex has a mole on the foot, itis a fign that they fhall travel intoilrfsitge couctiiief f and a mole on theright fide of either fex, fignifies ho-nefly aed riches j hut on the leftfide to he furrounded with calami¬ties ; if a man have a mole on bisfore.1 ead, it fhews he lhall OivfTefsmuctj wealth, by means of his wife ;a woman having a mole on the fore¬head, is bom either to govern, orcome to high dignity ; if a man hasa mole on the eye-brow, let him re*i -S- ^i fraxn from marriage, for if he marries. the (hall have fevea wives ia hft life*,time; a womap haviog a mole on,I the £ame place, ftantls f^ir to have asmany hufbands ; if a maa hath amole on his nofe, it denotes him a, | .perfon over much given to warmiogthe young laffes* lower parts : if awoman have a mole in the mouth off the Private Parts, it denotes (he lovesi a What d’ye call it, well enough,which fhe (hall get to her heart’s con-$ent. ^sThe Significitioa of DREAMS.If yew dream of men with billwords, or writings in their h»cd*tthen beware of being arrefted the dayiolloiring. If yon dream of ainake or a ferpent, and they comenear to hurt yeti, then look well toyomlelf for there are private ene¬mies leeking to dellroy both youand yours.—To dream you reach thetop of an hill, fhews you will nextday put an end to home affiir of1 . *. ..cccfequcnce; hut if you fall beforeyou reach the top, ic Ihews yourifuit will be loft,- - —If you dream oftroubled water, and that you fallinto ic, you may expert to hear badnews the next day.—If you dreamyou outran a hare, then you ihallreceive a letter or letters the nextday, If you dream you are be-fhitten, and are not, then you willlhave good fortune ia all your bufi-nefs the next day,-——If you dream,of eggs that arc broken, there wasmuch mifehief portending towardsyou, but is now pad and gone Ifa woman dream of egga that arewhole, Ihe and her neighbours willhave a lad bout of fcolding the nextday. If a man dream that he isl) ing with his neighbour’s wife, andis not, then tne devil is ufmg his beffcer deavours to rob him or whit heought not to lofc.—If a man thatis born under the planet Marc, feestwo or three moons at once ia hisCrearr, then let him «xp:& to hearioftracgc news from the pmt ones.—* •It is good to dream of the Mmigh'y, ,but bart ro dream of fmalF pieces otfilvfr —If you dr&sm y ur frieii ^s jare dead, it Signifies they are •rcl'.— SIf a nun or woman dream of a blackcoffio, it dei'otea fome kindred oftheirs is dead.—It is had to dream ofbirds and cackling hens, but verygood to dream of corn and bread—It |is good for a man to dream of his go- Jing or climbing up any place, wut badto dream of failing down.i OF cHe Fortancs and D^ftinias of per*font born under ehe twelve figne.I.TO know what planet a perronis bora uader, it is firft necelTaryto obferve, that there are feven pla^nets, which are attributed to the fev¬en days of the week, for each fayhach its name of a planet: thus, Sol(hews (unday being the molt wor¬thy, and fo takes th» wotthieft day.Luna governs the firft hour on mon-day, Mars the firft on Tuefday, Mer¬cury on wednefday, Jupiter on thurf-day, Venus oa friday, and Saturn onfaturday. The natural day hath 24hours, and each fevcral hour reignsa planet. It is to be un ierftoo t, chatwhen you begin to reckon on frju-day, you muft r.;ckoa tiius, S jI, Ve¬nus, Mercury, Lutu, Saturn, Japiter,12Mars, and when the rumbrr is on,yon rrsuft then begin mth the hourin which y u w uld know what pla¬net rcigneth. On mondvy we muitbegin at Luna, on tuef ay at Mars,■wedsefday at Mercury, thurfday at, Jupiter, friday at Venus, and fitur-day at b-* urn.Thus when the number of the pla¬nets is part, you muft begin in orderas afortfaid. \t one o’clock on fun-day morrhog reigneth Sol, at twoLuna, and fo by order, in eve/yhour. When a child is born it isto be known at what hour, in thebeginning, in the mirilt, or at theend; if it be in the beginning, helhall hold of the fime, and of theether bef re ; if in the midit, or theend, it holds of the fime and the nextafter : m verthdefs the planet whichhe is bora un«ier, fiuli net ruie overthe other,, and that of the day ilia 11have moil pre omination, which isth‘ caof the child holds divers pla¬nets, auu has itverai conditions.i*3that is born u^der the San willbe prudenr, and rloqn^nt. Ta fewh:> are born u der Vei us, are be¬loved of every man; tney are goodto each command ot God, and lhailbear'a rule. They who are o munder Mercury re not the moft pru¬dent. They who are born uaderLuna, generally have high foreheads,ruddy, merry-vifaged, fhatce-faced,and very religious, They who areborn under Jupiter, are hardy, fair-vilaged, ruddy, chalk, & vagabonds.They who are born under Mars, aregreat fpcakers, liar*, thieves, and doceivers, and are gCLCiaily very big,and odd of colour.*4Of the four elements, tad of the fourcompkxidas of Meo.Thefe four are the Elements,Air, Earth, Fire, and W:tt:r.The twenty-four hours of t')c dayand night, rule fauguine^ choleric, !melancholy and phlegm, accordingto Fcolmeus.»How a man may know whether him-felf or friend falling fick, fliall livecr die-THE 6th and 16 day cf March,(halt thou draw blood out of tUyright arm. The nth of April out iof thy !ef: arm. Aud in the end of |May, cut of which arm thou wilt, Iand dpecially againit a itver j and ifthou oolt, neither limit thou lofe thyfight, nor flialc thou have a fever*5fo long as thou liveth. And nrhofo-ever on the 7th of March is let Moodia the right arm, and on the 11: h 'fApril in the left, Ch«ll foon recover.Oa the 4th and lad days of May, iflet blood in both arms, no fever‘will follow. Whofoever on the firftdny ot tiie month falls into auy in¬firmity is in danger the three eofa-ing days, vrhich palVd, he fhall al¬es pc thirry-fix days Wtiof‘ever failsfick the 2d day, tho* he be long lick,yet he IhaU recover. He that fallsfick the 3d will recover next change,Jf on the 4db, if he furvives the 30thhe fhall efcape. If the $thf tiio’ hefufFer grievoufly, he (hall recover.-—If he fall fick oa the 6ch, though hefeems to be healed, yet on the 15thof the next will he be dead. He tnatfalleth fick the yiih, if he be not wellthe 12th, he will not recover. If onhe 8:h, he fhall efcape, th: ugh it?c with great difficulty, if on the*th or io;h, he ffiail be delivered theicxt day, He that’s hek on the 1 uhili6days except he i* delivered in twodtvs, will die on the 15th. He thattakes fick the 12th or 13th day, on¬to the 18th day he will be fick, ifhe psfs which, he will recover. Hethat fells fick the 14th day will re-ctveronthc next. He that fallethlick on the 13 th day.except he recoverwithin eleven days, he fhall die. Hethat fdkth fick on the 16th day, fhalinot recover. He that fallctb fickcn the 17th day, though he lie ill 24days on the 28th be £hall be found.He that grows lick on the 18th day,fhall dk on the 19th ©f the nextmonth. He that falls fick on the19th flu? 11 focn recover. He thatwsxeth. fick cn the 20.h, (hall like-wile eler.pe- He that wax:th fickon the 2 ifl> in five days fhali be well,but. ntvertuelcli. in the month follow¬ing he fliall be dead. He taat wax- jtth fiek on ihe 22i or 23 1 days, ex¬cept he run into peril ot death, ihallbe deliv red withm ten Cays. Hethat falieth lick the 24‘.h uay, tho*it be *tith grief or pain, in aaothefmonth he (hall be deliverer. Hethn falls fick on the 25th day, onthe 27th he (hall recover ; yet ne.ver-thelefs he fh&ll die in the next month.He falls Tick the 26th, thoughhe foffhr a little yet will efc%pe. Hethat fail1 lick on the 27th Jay, thoughhe fufFcr the remainder of the month,yet in the next he fhall be delivered,He that falls lick on the 28rh, ru ;sgreat hazard of death ; as alfo on the29 !? He that fickens the ^bth,fhall recover j but if on the 31 It, it isdoubtful.A Night Spell to catch Thieves*The following will drive away anyevil fpirit that haur.ts houfc* or otherpeaces ; and having it about you, dothief cm harm you ; but if becomesto r* b a garden, an orchard or houfe,he cannot come rill the fun rifeth: ha¬ving in every four corners of thehoafe this fcntence written upon finetrue virgin parchment.dmnes Spiritus lander DominumM fern habe.Prophetas exerget Dent, diflipariinter Inimicos.But if for a garden or orchard, itmuft be placed at the four cornersthereof ; and if to keep one from be¬ing robbed cn the road, to have it al¬ways about him, and fear God,If yonr fptll be fet ia the hour ofMars, which you may know by thisbook, you may he affurc<l of fuccefj^lin your endearours tu cacch a thief,It any thi'ek there is harm in it,let him not ulc it; for my part I canfind none.He that covets the love of a womanmufl court her in the hour of Venus,land he wilt gain mure love than at a-ny other time.29Now I will fpeak fomethiag of theSigns of the Head:X warn you to beware of perforswho have default of members; offuch as are tripled, and efpecially ofa man that has no beard, for fuchare inclined to divers vices and evils,and one fhculd efehew his companyas an enemy.Plain hair fignifies aperfon piteousand debonair.They elm have red hair, are com¬monly ireful, and lack wit, and areef little truth.Black hair is a good colour, andfiignifies the love of juftice ; and ifit be hard, it fhews the perion lovescoiicoro, and is of a good and fuotilewit.A man with black hair and a redbeard, has the figni of letchery andof juftice.21The yellow hair *nd crifp, (hew aman laughing and merry.Black hair and cnip, fiiews me¬lancholy and letchery.-Hanging hair fhews malice.Great plenty of hair in a womanfhews covetoulnefs.A perfon with great eyes is floth-tul, obedient, and defirous to knowmore chan he doth ; but when ycureyes arc not too big nor too fmall,it fhews they are ftrong, and a perfonof a good and courteous behaviour.iOf the FOREHEAD,The forehead {raooth, a fSUttcrer.The forehead big ami wriaklea, bold,A high forehead, liberal. An oTer*wrinkled forehead, void of bafhtul-nefs $ and puft np in the temples, tobe htgh-p» inded, and ot a rude wit. Ifthe torehead be very big, flow. Ifround, to be dull of apprehend on, ^Ifit :s plain, it h circumipeft A Iqu ir?tormed forehead, bold, like the lion,Of the EYES.The eyes fmall, fluuneofacednefi ?bow much bigger the eyes, fo the lefsmalice, but more folly. The eyealarge and (landing out, fearful, andimtnpdefl. Eyes diforderly roving.«a3too rath, and unquiet in mind. Theeye Hd quavering, feartui. The eyemoving fwiftly, with a ftarpilh lock,fraudulent, unfaithful, and a thief.The eye ftedfaftly looking, troubledin mind, and a deceiver. The eyevery wide open, extremely impudent,Qt the NOSE.The nofe round, with a fliarpneftat the end, wavering of mind. Thenofe crooked, like the cagle’e bill, toobold. The nofe flat, letcherous, andfull of pafRon. The nofe large* at theend, deftroua of what they fee. Theend ®f the nofe (harp, fierce, and full#f word*, as a fworri. A rolling eye,A fmiling countenance, and a ftarlcei nofe, as right as lofty Roger, an artift“ of the fchool of Venue, and alovcr ofthis female fex.*4CONCLUSION.I Wifli good trsding- und good Le&lth,to all where’er you ive or dwell,Mu«h honor *y, & ^ good wealthto all that wdh us wellRemerob’ring Inch as {hall buy this,to read much w t at >e lure $Althc* lon^e at thefe Sens may hifs, tto otners they’ll give pleslure.And then for all fuch no be fpirits,th»r live in country 0r ic city,’Tis fi: they (hould have their merit*,,and pledge this health for liberty. [Let no oiftr^dlions now abound,nor wMg nor tory longer grumble,But let the glals go cheerful round,yet for their fin* let all be humble.¥