THECRAFTY MILLER;O R, T H UMSSTAKEN SATCHELTO WHICH ARE ADDED,F A R E W EL T O- SPRING.ITKUNDERINO ROARING GUNS.B E A U T I F U L N A- N C Y.A Favourite HUNTING SONG.• G L A S G O'i ricied by j. Sc M. ROBERTSON, Saitmarke^,«Boa.£ i 1T il E C il A F T ¥' M I L L E R i IO R, •’t H E „MISTAKEN B A T C H E L O R.YOU gallants of Britain, I pray now draw near,fhe tp.c’ris of a you quickly fhau bear,A gentleman had a fine watr.' mo>»>livi in it this poor hcr.eft miller did dwell,'’But fortune did frown as if doth appear,lie couM pay no rent for the fpace of two year.F?.i lal de ral, la de, etc.The Landlord refolv’d he wodld make no firtl'e,Tho* greatly inft?. n’d'with the poor Miller’s wife.Li >welt Rliller. he cry’d, I beg /-a ii not. moan,Lor if you can’t pay me, psay let it alone.Come, come to the tavern, it is try defign,• To give you the fh.ire of a bottle of wine.Fid la! de ral, etc. .Being nrwTow *»ith win;’, as we alt may fuppoie.The Land’ord cries Miller, my mind 1T1 uifclofe •,’ ’Tis true, I’m Tn love with your honeft bridf,And if.you’d ccr.fent, I fball !y by her fide,.1 nt'eau to furrender with .heart and good trill, »Tne rent that you owe me and give you the cv.djFal lal.de ral, etc.Kind Sir, fays the Miller, I grant yourc .Le,My wife’s ct.your will when ycu plealc to ly by uerI freely confsnt, you fhall ha've your will*But now let s have writings concerning the tnJd:With all my hevirt the Landlord did fay, f•Mfe‘11 have them drawn here without more delay* ' Fal lal d? ral, etc. r 3.1.But, quoth the MiHir, ic 'sr.A Le a jeer.If that we in public <io let it appear ^To fare both our credits. a«d bring it to pafs.1 have in the meadp* a dainty the sis.That vrili appear better the bond for tu ffil,For the lend of the afs you mult give me the ruiM»F^i hi de rai, etc.Well faid, fays the Landlord ,1b at will endtheftrifrrBut youkno w that my mesuing's toly with yout wife.Indeed* fays the Miller, you fiiall have your delight.Bu1: who flaall we get this bond for to write jAs forcune wxiuld have it the Partbit came by,The Landlord he faw him, and to him did cry.'Fal lal de ra^, etc.Kind Sifi here’s a bond I beg you v?jU {ill,That l give to this Miller a good water mill,And quit him the rent for two years paft,And all for the lending to me his Hie afs,That is a good a£t the Parfon did fay,The bend 1 will fill without more delay.Fal lal dejal, etc.When the Milter t be bond in his pocket had get .Took leave r>f his Landlord, & homeward did trot,He whiilled and fung, and laugh’d in his fleeve, 'To think how his Landlord he meant to deceive,The bond is fecure, the bargain is fad,-Inftead ot ray wife he dial! have my fhe afs,fa! lal de ral, etc.The. Gentleman he was as brillc as an eel, •And looh the next morning feme courage dir: feel.;He call’d to his man, and he gsve him a giiaL,laying, Go to the Miller and fetch his fne .Ts,Nov mind that you get your tlory quite pat,’ k il know what you mean, but*—-must foi all ih'aFal lal de rai. etc.C 4 ] , /-•The fervant he down to the Miller did haite.And told him his Mafter R;iuft have his OiC afs»The Miikr he fmil’d, but nothing be faid,But taking a halterj goes down to the mead ;Then leading the afs up, and when he bad done.The fervant htid Miller, Hire this is high fun.Fa! I?.I de ral, etcMy Matter’s commands I’ll quickly obey,Then taking the afs he led her away;o\s the Mailer had order’d, he fweep’d out the hal!^And fotui if became a fhe &fs.’s /tall !Tout the wine and the fowls he kept for his pains,Tor the afs it was dumb, and could not complain*- Fal la! de nil, etc.When Vie came to his Mafter, hewhifperingfaid,Inr, iVe feiouglit home that ns-ttiefome jade.That's well, faid the Mafter, my counfrl now keep,"X fancy by this tittte fhe vrants for to fleep,♦Go teil the houfekeeper to put her tO'bed,With clcati hblland fnetts. and the heft coverlid.Fal Isl dc r«!, etc.The houfek.eeper & fervants they laugh’d r main,To hear that the ait in bid mull be lain.Then madam was drefs’d in her pinners fo neat, .^rjd ihey pu‘ her to hedt and cover’d her feet.They 'hid her !y ftiii. fo they all v/ent to reit,£ut now cotnes the end and cream of the jell.Fal l.d de ral, etc-The Matter came home1quite pleas’d to the life.And thought to embrace the Miller’s fair wife , :iThen afkiug his man if hh dear was afieep,And into the room quite kctly did creep.Jack laugi.t ttft he piic, and crept up for to fee, .dor? his Vi after and Jen:;) did; teem’to agree,t imi ijt »lo ral, t tc.. -He fat down or> the bed, an^ the afa pave iproanvHe fa id, My dear jewel, l beg you’ll not raoail jI long have adinired your beautifu! faco.And now J hare bouttht you, l will you embrace,So then into bed he tumbled amain,But to his fuvpi iu; he was kick’d, out again.Fal iai de ral, etc.What the devil is this in my-chamber? fold be,Said Jack, ’tis the a fa that the Mi’dttr gave me.That rogue of a Miller has trick’d me at kit,Inltcad of his wife has feat His -.Be afs.Then he faid to his fervants, my counsel pray keep,And turn this damn’d afs into the Ilseet.Fai lal de ral, etc.The afs fhe was found the next day at a fair,“Which made al! the country gaffers to ftarevThe pinners and fmock they took train her hide.And held it convenient the afs fboutd be cry’d.The Miller.he came, and the afs he did own.And thio’ every village the ftory was known.Fal lal de ral, etc., ♦F A R E W E L to S F R I ^ G. .AREWE'L to fpring, virgins asid wives,li r he bloom when faffren grows dark.Our halved is come, come lads to your reaping,’ Your fickics are keen, come lads to yoar reaping,j Come I&iTes to g’eai)» plough, and fow.The fun peeps to brpad, and the twylight is flown,: The dawt\oi the morning throws ofl’the grey gown.Come lads to your labour, ’tis welcome the day,Your hearty meal’s meat ftiall your labour rcpiy.t <5 3Hod^rcrofs h^fhouider from rhc.barn bears a jJa'U, jWhiiU Nell crofTis the ftile, on her head a firU paii,Our rattle ^»ell fodder’d, ro the cottage let’s haile^^ No other pains take, on brown bread make a feafi.Neither<:ourt!y ncrcoft3y,nPrbook-!e{irntwe thaw, jPlain drf<lin>, plain dealing is at! that wt know.No cares ruji acrefs us, bin thoic.loves we hnd,Th jfe cured if your fweetheart proves but kind-THUN DERI NG ROARING GUNS.f"* Entlemers a’l cetn^ hft'en to my merry fong,J* ’ fisof the noble HornGdc&X-bold Foudrey ant, ,The brave it engagement that ever was feta,'Was by a Rritilh <hip in the bay of Cai tbagene..Chor. Where was thundering and roaring,Ranting and-roaring,Where was thundering and roaring guns,Thundering and roaring gunsSo cleat 7'as the morning and glcrNus the Jay, ■As vie were a entiling in Carthagcoe bay.Five fail of the Fgprich we chanc’d for to meet,Came bearing down dire£Uy upon the Rritifli fleet* i- With their thuo.dering and rogritig,' etc.Then our admiral gave the fignal for to chaeTj,When courage apprar’d in each Briton’* face ;The Monmouth got up with the brave Koudroyr.nt, ;And {<> fed to firing with-their hey diitg-o-dong ?■ With their thundering and roariitg, etc.At fix id the evening we faw t-Wc-m engagr,Tht Foudroyant 5Uid I ionmouth were fp. eViiagM.)Th;-y drove for victory, but all was in vci-i,Fcr ti.itoiu will always be lords of the m un.With thsk thundriug and roaring, e'-in ]Bat f!r'.irfn+ ?. ruiTiRions difp^tcK'd !>v pile death,When brave cbl'nVl Gard’ner Surrender'd hisbreath,F'^ht on inv brave heroes, his sjl l require,Then Tike } Br.i-ifh fcilor fo bravely did expiri.By his.thundering and waring, etc.Then bke a jifi'e devil the Monmouth did fight,Againft tbs great Goiiih in the dead of night.With broad fide for brpadlide, «ach ether alike.And ajter *hi|t«r,o glades compel:them to rtrike.By our laundering and roiringt etc.BEAUTIFUL NANCY.t '"I'^Wa.s down in a valley, by the fide of a grove,S. By? clear chry rial fountain 1 fnwttty true love.The birds were a tinging, the lambs were at play.On a c':.nk of fweet violets fire carelefly lay:When firfi; I beheld her mv heart -^as furprlz’d.By the bloom of her cheeks,and hcrfnarkling eyesjy oung Cupid was cruel, he directed his dart.For the fake of my Nancy (he wouttded my heart.Now' here in this tormeot I fbjll do remain.Like a t;-,h»f that’s fentenc’d Tm bound in lorit’schatn,No peace night or day can my heart ever find,'i tr; thoughts of my Nancy Co trouble my mind.Brirg me pm,ink, arid paper, all for to write,Tp my btautiful Nancy, my joy and delight,lihe 3 char;r.'..|^, {he’s beautiful; fhe’s pretty fair,i here’s none in shtr country c.n with her compare.Small birds on the branches ure bleft with a mate,'1 he dove is a mourning for my haplcfs fate,1 he lark with her fine notes mounting the air,B. mgs me no glad tidings front my deareft dear.Farewel c?ef reft Nancy, h:;cc we mufi pzrtrd be.I'll away to rhe mountains where none (ball ;ne fee,The recks {hall hide *ne, & tying cne to my grave,_ So farewel Nancy, fince I cannot you hate.A Favourite HUNTING SONG.HArlc! the huntfmau’s begun to found the thrillcorne quickly unkennel the hounds, (horny’Tis a beautirul glittering golden ey’d morn,we’ll chacc the fox over the grounds-See yonder fits Reynard fo crafty and fly,come faddle your courfers apace,The hounds have a feent, and are all hi full cry,they long to be giving him ehace.Thehorfemen are mounted, & deeds feel the fpur,and Oiffly they fcour it along,Rapid after the fox runs each mufical cur,follow, follow, my boys, h the fong.Over mountains and vallies they fkim it away,now Reynard’s almod out of fight.But fooner than lofe him we’ll fpend all the day■ in hunting, for that’s their delight.By eager purfuing they have him at lad,he’s fo tir’d, poor rogue, dow* he lies ;Ndw ftarts up afrefa, young Snap has him faff,he trembles, kicks, druggies, aah die§.GLASGOW,Printed by J, & M..Robertfon, Saitmarket, iSjj.