APARTICULAR AND IMPARTIALACCOUNT,OF WHAT HAPPENED-iON THE SCA.FFOLD,At the Execution ofCOLONEL MARCUS DESPARD,THOMAS BROUGHTON,JOHN FRANCIS,ARTHUR GRAHAM,JOHN MACNAMARA,JOHN WOOD; andJ. SEDGWICK WRATTEN,FOR HIGH TREASON., CONTAINING,COL. DESPARD’s DYING WORDSto the Moititude, tsfc.TO WHICH 13 PREFIXED,An Extract of the Warrant for theirExecution,STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY c RANDALL,*8 #3.( 2 ^EXECUTION OF COL. DESPARD, &c7N Saturday afternoon was received theinformation that the warrant for exe¬cution on Monday had been made out (twas fenr to (he Keeper of the New Goal in theBorough at fix o’clock on Sunday evening,and included 'he names ofCOLONEL UErP vRD,TdOVm }R HJG 1TON,JOdN KR MS,iiR VHUR GR ‘H \M,• JOd^ 1VI vC'JdtM iR^,JOHN W )■ )i) andJ ^MES SEDG V CK WR ITTEN.The three ( thi t prifoners Newman : yn-»al and Land> r, recommended by the Juryto meicy, have been refpittd, and will betranlported to ‘iotahy dav.ExtraH; of the ;Varrant for Execution‘ And wher- as we have thoughi fit to remitpart of ;he ftntence, viz taking out and burn¬ing their bovveis. &c and c ividing the bodies ofEdward Marcus Defpard, J. Wocd jf Fran~as A. Graham> and "J Macnamara, fevcral-ly int(* four parts, cur will .tiu pleafiire is.that execut'on bt done upon the laic EdwardMarcus Defpatd y. Wiod % F/ancts Fro-mas Broughton y Std^wick Wratari a. Gra-hani) c.x\a.y. Macnamara b\ ticir being (iawnand hat g> d, anu luving their h^ads ievaedfrom their bodies according to the faid fen-tence only, at the uluai pEce oi execution, on( 3 )Monday next, and for io doing tl:is fhall beyour Warrant.“ tty his Majefty’s Command ”f Signed P-'LHam.'*To orrr trnftv and well-btlov-dShfriff of the county of « •Surry, and others whom itmay concernAs foon as the warrant for execution wasreo ived, it was communicated to tht unhap >yperfons by the keeper or the prifon, Vlr Jvf:s,with as much tenderne s an huminity as theawful nature ol the cue required iTfcbe,!itveit was expeffed hy al—ir w.^s re-'civ* wilH re-fignation and fortitude Vhin the arrival ofthe death warrant -as announcec* to Co or;elDefpard he was a little ilartled and co.u-plained that the time was fhort. fie feemed tohave had feme hopi.s ot a pardon The o herfix prifoners did not appear to have entertain-eu any fuch ex eftations and heard their p-proaching fate announced with great co- po-fure vil his papers and every thing he p If f-fto were irbm diateiv 'aken ucm h'u n jDcfpairl ie was Itficllv h *i • he tu 0 tc v rwhe f e; he had tiny knife or mean • ol it f --flruclion con-t let’abt-ut hitn.. an i e<. e y i gthat it wa thought n ight enab’e bin v. pm nend to his exutenct was conveye out or isreach There is no ital< n tc ;up ie ‘ nebad the fl ghteft d fi-n of comnii’tir g uu defbut thefe arc the uiual and neccii y ptecaq-(ionapy nn aiu es,Mrs. Dcipatd w as greatly affected when Ifyfi( 4 )firft heard that the fate of the Colonel was feal-ed. arccmpanied by another lady {he had alaft interview with him on Sunday about threeo’clock, fhe lady wept bitterly; but firftM; s Defpard and then the Colonel, reproach¬ed fyer tot her weaknefs Col and Mrs Def¬pard bore up w ith great firmnefs even in part¬ing ; and when {he got into a coach, as itdrove off, flie waved her ham Jterchicf out ofthe window. <he other prifoners bore theirfate with equal hardihood, but conduced'themfelves with lefs lolemnity than ColonelDefpard. Their wives and children &c. wrereallowed to take farewel of them on Sunday jand ihe fcene was extremely diftrefiing.At eight o’clock on Sunday morning Col,Drfpard and his fellow prifonrrs were fent forby Mr Ives to attend the Chapel. They allcheerfully obeyed the fummons, except Col.Defpard and Macnamara ; the former affignedno reafen for his reful’af, but the latter faid hewas a Roman Catholic, and it would not beconfiltent with his FaithThe Rev. Mr. Winckworth read prayers,after which he delivered a very impreflivt fer-men extremely applicable to the fituarion ofthe prifoners. The unhappy men joined inprayer with great devotion ; and the impref-ficn made by the fermon was indicative oftrue fortitude, contrition fpr their crimes, andfincere repentance.At day light on Sunday morning the drop,fcaffold, and gallows on which they w ere ex¬ecuted, were created on the top of the goal.—( 5 )The ere&ion cf the apparatus of death gavefull information to the populace of the ap¬proaching event, and great crowds continuedto arrive viewing the place the whole clay.Mis Dtfpard alter having taken leave ofher hufband yefterday afternoon at 3 o’clock,came again abou* 5 ok lock but to fpare 'theColonel the pangs of a fecond parting, Ihewas not admitted*Mod of the prifoners paffed much of theirtim?: in prayer with the clergym'an They^remained great part of the night in deep andearned prayer. Macnamara fpent the wholenight in prayerBefore they received the facrament, fourof them confeffed they had done wrong butnot to the extent charged againft them by theevidence, Graham faid he was innocent ofthe charges brought againft him, but that heattended two meetings the feccnd at the in-ftigation of Franch The e'ergyman laid :ohim • ^ou admit you attended meetings.’*He replied Yes.” ‘ You knew they werefor the purpofe of ov( rturninir the Conftitu-ticn and Government of ti t Country. I donor wilh you to fnter into particulars—I onlywifti you to acknowledge generally * bran¬ds he anlwered * I admit that I have donewrong in attending thole meetings.’* Thefacrament was then adminiftered to them.It was about half paft tight when the prif¬oners were brought up to cite fcaflbid one byor e. M.icnamara was firft brought up ; heftill held a book in h$ hand, and when the( 6 )coi'd was placed round his neck, he exclaimedtptfh fhe prtateft cievi tion { Lord Jcfus. havenuucv upon me. Oh 1 Lord, look downwith pity upon me ”—Graham came tecond.He looked pal«. and ghaftiy but fpoke not.Wiatten was the third r he afcended the fcaf-fold with much firmnefs. Broughton thefourth fmiled as he fan up the fcaffold hairs,but as foon a> the rope was fahened round hisneck, he turnee pate and fmiled no more,lie joined in prayer with much earneftnefs.Wood was the filth. Francis the fixth.—Fran¬cis afi ended the tcaffold with a compofurew hich he preferved to the laft. Wood andBroughton were equally compofed —Of themnil Francis was the belt looking. He andWood were drefled in loldiers uniform. Ftrereft were in coloured clothes Colon 1 Def-pani being the laft on coming forward heturned to the right and left and repeatedlybowed to the multitude iome few ol whom,that had placed then fehes in phalanx dirt Oi¬ly cppofite the door of the p i on returnedthe failure with a kind of fhout, which was,however, overpowered by a lolcmn murmurof difapprobation.! he ceremony of faftening the prifoners be¬ing fimfhtd the Colonel advanced as nearas he could to the edge of the fcafFold, anduttered the following (pue> h to the multitude :Fellow Citizens. I come here as you fee,after having ferved my country, faithfully,hdnourably. and uiefully ferved it for thirtyyears and upwards, to fufur death upon afcaffold for a crims of which I protect I am notguilty, I foie naly declare, tint l a a aomore guilty of it than any of you vho any benow hearing me l hope and trail nor with land*mg my fate and the fate of tnofe who nodoubt will foon follow me . that the p 'inciplesof freedom of huminicy and of ju lice, w 11finally triumphbverevery princtplehoiltietotheinterells of the human race. \nd now hav¬ing laid this, l have little more to add.'* fileColocel:s voice feerneJ to falter a little here.He paufed a moment as if he had meant to fayfomething more, but had forgotten it.) tiethen concluded in the following manner—* Ihave little more to add, except to wilh you allhealth and happinefsr and freedom, which 1have endeavoured, as far as was in my po wer,to procure for you, and for mankind in ge¬neral.”fhe Colonel fpoke in a firm and audibletone—he left off fooner than was expected.There W3.s no public expreffion cither of ap-j probation or difapproba.ion given when heconcluded his addrefsHis fellow fuftcrers faid nothing, and all' behaved with great decorum, and refignatiouto their fate.I he con lets were afliftet' in their devotionalexercifes by the Chapiuin of the pnkm and aCatholic Pricft : in thele, howeve*', Mr.Defpard. though he conducted hiiTifd: with; molt becotning decorum appeared to tAo nopart w le one of his uni rtuna'e compani¬ons n-aiulciled much levity, t./c or threeC 8 )times Wivine: h"s hand v.Tith an air of exulta¬tion rhe ckrgvm m now (book hands witheach of them. Colonel Defpard bowed, andfee me d to thank him as he fliork h;nds v/ithhim - The execujoners pulled the caps overthe unhappy p rll-ns faces and -efcended thefc-.ffold—M dt of them excl lined ‘ LordJelus receive our fouls !*'\t fcvtn n.inu"es bdore 9 o’clock, the fig-nal was ipven the platform dropped, andthey wre ail launched into eternity!!!They r ninn'd fu^pended about half an hourwhen thev were cut down and decapitated byan axe, the operation beginning with that ofthe Colon3!, after which the heads were fuc-ct ffi'e'y exhibi ed by the executioner, makingthe u<u J proclamatii n—This is the head ofa train r !,, and ddignating each by his name.May the fate of thefe defperately infatuat¬ed men operate as a wholefome leffon. tothofe who may have been dazzled by theLife glare of Revolutionary Poli ics!!FINiS.