THEHISTORYOFBOTAN Y - B AY,AND PARTICULARLYPORT - JACKSON,WHEREThe Convitts from this Country are fent,and the Britifh Settlement formed.%WITHAn Account of the Manners and Cuftomsof the Inhabitants, and of the Climateand Soil of that Country.Collected from authentic Authorsand original Papers.FALKIRK:•“T""D»OU>• 179^* Of SCOTLAND )THEHISTORYOFBOTANY - BAY.—000—000 particular defeription of Van Diemen’sLand,fouth extremity of New HolUnd.AN DIEMEN’s Land was fo narnedjby Tafrnan, who firft dilcovered it inthe year 1642.; from that time it d'capetlall further notice by European navigators,till Captain Furneaux touched at it in March1773. In the year 1776) .Captain Cook,whole profelfional Hull in navigation hadnever been equalled by any in this kingdcmiwas called upon, in confequence of an ordofof his prefent majdly, for making difeovejries in the fouthern Hemifphere. by whicljhe accompliftied a very important purpolqin afeertaining that immenfe traft in thefouthern clime, cdled New Holland, to bean iflind, which had ever before been fup*pofed to be continental.This great and extenfive iflsnd, being thelarged in the known world, extends fromVan Diemen’s land in the fouth-wed to C.F. De Witt’s land, no Ids than two th^ufandfour hundred Englifh miles j and fromnoitb( 3 )o fouth, not iefs iha-i two tlioufand, three■mndred ; To th t inftead of an ifland, thehiaim of New Holland, to be called a conti¬nent, will be indilputable. { JThe whole of the iftand went firit by thename of New Holland, but is now applied tothe north and weft parts of the country, theeaftern part, called New South Wales, wastaken pofieflion of, in his Majefty s name,by Captain Cook, and now forms a part ofthe Bvitilh Dominions, a colony being latelyformed there, chiefly of the convi&s fenten-ced to tranfportation.The inhabitants pf this part of New Hol¬land have little of that wild or fierce appear¬ance common to the people of this ifland ;but, on the contrary, feem mild and cheerful,without referve or jealoufy to ftrangers,—This, however, may arife from their havinglittle to lofe or care for. With refpect toperfonal activity or genius, little can be faidof either. They do not fe£m to poftefs thefirft in any remarkable degree; and, as forthelaft, they have, to appearance, lefsthanthe half*animated inhabitants of Terra delFuego, who have not invention fufficient tomake cloathing for defending themfelvesfrom the rigour of their climate, though fur-nifhed with materials. It muft be owned,however, that they are mafters otTome con¬trivance, in the manner of cutting their armsand bodies in lines of different lengths anddii f ftions, which sre raifed confiderably a-bove the fkin j fo that it is difficult to guefsthe method they ufe in executing this cm-brojderv of their perfons. Their colour isa ciuii ■- jack like that of the Negroes. ItIhouid feem alio that they fometimes height¬en their black colour, by fmu'ting theirbodies, as a mark was left behind on anyclean fubftance, fuch as white psper, whenthey handle it. Their hair is perfectly wool¬ly j and it is clotted or divided into ihallparcels, like that of the Hottentots, with thelife of feme fort of greafe, mixed with a redpaint or ochre, which they imear in greatabundance over their heads. Their nofes,though not flat, are broad and full. Thelower part of the face projects cor.fiderably;fo that a line let fall from the forehead,would cut off a much larger proportion thanin the Europeans. Their eyes are of a mid-ling (ize, with the whites lefs clear than in us;and though not i emarkahly q.iick or piercingthey are fuch as give a frank, cheerful cafl tothe whole countenance. Their teeth arebroad, but not equal, nor well fet: and, eitherfrom nature, or from dirt, not of fo true awhite as is ufual among people of a blackcolour. I heir mouths are rathet wide; andthis appeal ancefeems heightened, by wearingtheir beards long, and clotted with paint, inthe fame manner as the air on their heads.rl heir belliesprojedt coafiderably, which may -be owing to the want of compreflion in thatpart which nioft nations ufe more or leij.-The females vv. ar a kangaroo ikim in,thefame fhape as it comes from the animal, tiedover the (boulders, and round the waift. Butits only the feemed to he to fupport theirchildren, when earned on their backs; for itdid not cover tln.fe parts which mett n tionsconceal, they being, in all o'her relpe&s asnaked as the men, that, though their ban wasof the fame texture and colon* fome of themhad their heads completely (horn orfiiavfd.in others this operation had been pertormed,only on oof tide of the head, while the red of-them ir d ail the upper part of the head thornclofe, leaving a circle of hair all roirhd, fome-what like the tonfure of the Rnmifh eccleti-sflics Some of the gentlemen paid theiraedreffes, and made liberal offers of pro fernswhich were r<-jr tfted with great dihiain; whe-thcr fiodv 3 fenfe of virtue, or the tear os Ciii“pleafing their men. qruld not be determined.That this aalbm- v was not very agreeble tothe latter is certain; _for au rhlerly man asip on as he obferved it, ordered all the wo¬men and children to retire, which they obey¬ed ; though fome Oiewcd a little rekuffaoce*The inhabitants of Van Diemen’s Landhave fome wretched cooftru&icrna of (iicks>covered with hark; hut thefe feemt/d oi-’yto’nave been embed for temporary purpofes;and many ofthe largcft trees were ccnvertcd( 6 )into coatfortable habitations thefe had theirtrir ks hollowed out, by fire, to the height offix er {'even feet: they have an hearth of clayIn the middle, and room for four or five per-ibns to fit round it. At the fame time thefeIhelterS are durable; for they take care toleave one fide of the tree found, which is fuf-ficient to keep it growing as luxuriantly asthole which remained untouched.•Captain Cook vilited various parts of thefonthern extremity, previous to his failing inwith thef’pot under immediate confideration;and (landing to the nor thward, hedifcovereda bay, which he afterwards called Botany-Bayfrom the great number of plants cohc&ed atthis place. It is (hunted on the eaftern cordCt New Holland, denominated by that navr-gator, New South Wales, in the latitude oi34 degrees fouth, longUude 208 deg. 37 min.well. It is well (he'tcved from all winds,which induced him to anchor there. He fentan orii .er tofound the entrance,-who reportedon his return, that,' in a cove, ^ little withinthe harbour. Come of the natives came downto the beach and invited him to la ml, by manyfig ns and words, of which he knew not themeaning. All of them were armed with longpike*, ard a wooden weapon, fhaprd feme-what like a icy meter, which was tmjo feet anda half long. The Indians, who had not fol¬lowed the boat, feeing the flv.p approach, uledmany threatening gefiares, and brandifhedtheir weapons.&s Botany-Bay Is not many leaguesfrom Port Jackion, and the natives are ex Oi¬ly the fame in their difpofittohs, manners,■cuftormn&c as aifo the animal and vegetableprcdu£tions. and the climate and foil varyingbut in a fmall degree, we (hail therefore cc-pioufly defer ibe them under the head of Portfackfon, as related by the new colomfts whohad more time to obferve, and more leilhreto digeft, thefe particulars, than the fij-t-dUcoverers.Commencement of the'Colony.Governor Philips had with him,when he failed from Eng1 and, 558 maleconvicts, and 220 females, amounting, iaall, to 778; aifo a few borfes, cows, (heep,hogs, fowls, and feveral other animals ne- 'ceffary for the fettlements.As Botany Bay was the fpot dePi.ned forthe planting a new colony in this part ofthe globe, the fleet, fitted out by Govern-m nt, for the expedition, failed from Eng¬land in March*17874 and having in thecourfe of their voyage, touched at T.enentf,Rio de Janeiro in the Brazils, and the Capeof Good Hope, reached and anchored in tl eBay on the 20th of January 17 88. after a oaf-fa ge of thirty-fix weeks, in which a moft ar¬duous undertaking was effected with rooiefiiccds, and lefslofs, than hardly ever attaftd-cd a fleet in fuch a predicament.frevious to the lettlemfnt on the fpctv.nder immediate cordideration, an expedi¬tion up the Bay was deemed expedient, inord=r ro explore the nafare of the country,an feJeit a place for carrying into executiontheir plan and de'fign. None being dilcover-*ed that appeared very convenient ror thepur-pofe, tlie geverner and the lieutenant-gover¬nor proceeded in a boat to examine an open¬ing, to which Captain Cook had given thename of fart-jack bn, prefuming that gopdanchorage, might be found within it. Nordid they fearch in vain, for fuch wrs theiraccount of the harbour, and the advantagesattending the place, upon their return, thata refolution was formed'of evacuating* Bota¬ny-Bay the enfuing morning.The paffage from Botany-Bay to Port-Jackfon was both fpeedy and pie a‘apt. Hav¬ing paired between the capes which forms itsentrance, the fleet'arrived at Port- Jack'cm,one of the fir*-11: and mod exteniivc harboursin the univeipe, and at theiame time the imdtfecure, being fafe from all the winds thatblow. It is divided into a great number ofcoves, to which the governor has given dif¬ferent names. That on . which the town isto be built is called Sydney-Cove. It is oneof the fnalldl in the.harbour, but the mollconvenient, as (Ipps of the greateP burdencan vyith Oafe go into it, and heave out cloieto the ike re. Trincomale, acknowledgedto be one of the beft: harbours in the world, S3is by no means to be compared to it. In aword,' Port-Jackfon would alford fafficien;and fafe anchorage for all the na\%s inEuope: Daring a run up the harbouf ofabout four miles, in a weftcrly direction,a luxuriant profpeft prefented i:felf on the* fhore, covered with trees to the water’s edge,among which many of the Indians were fre¬quently feem till the fleet arrived at a fmallihug cove to the fouthward, on the banksof which the plan of operations were defiin-ed to commence. On tlieir arrival the na¬tives appeared tolerably numerous, fromwhence they had reafon to conclude thdcountry more populous than Captain Cookthought it, as they were afTemhled on thebeach, to the fouth Ihore, to the number ofnbt lefs than forty perfons, fhouting, andmaking many uncouth iign^ rod gestures.As the boat, in which were ffie governor,fotne officers, and attendants, rowed up theharbour, ciofe to the land, for fome diftance,the Indians k pt pace'with heron ti^e beach.When fignswcre mads of a want of water,the natives dire&lycomprehended tlie mean¬ing, and pointed to a f'pot where it could beprocured ; on which the boat was immedi-ately puflied inland alanding^ook place.—I de Indians, though timorous, fhewed nofigrr of refentment at our people’s going or' Ihore ; and, when an interview'commenced/-V )feemcd highly entertained with their newac(] laintance, from whom they accepted ofa looking-ghis, fame beads, and other toysTiie following circumftar.ces, related bythe. author of the narrative before-mention¬ed, are infeitcd in his own words, as it isp re fumed they will conduce both to enter¬tainment and information.“ When I went with a party to the fouthfide cf the harbour, and had fcaicely la .uedfive minutes, we were met by a dozen ofIndians, naked, walking along the beach.Eager to come to a conference, and yet afraidof giving offence, we advanced w ith cautiontov/ards them ; nor would they, at full, ap¬proach nearer to us than the distance of fomepaces; both parties were armed, yet an at¬tack feemed as unlikely on their part as weknew it to be on our own. I had, at tinstime, a little boy, cf not more than fevenyears of age in my hand ; the child feemedto attraft their attention very much, fer theyfiequentiy pointed to him am! fpoke to eachother; and as he was net frightened, 1 ad-..vanced with him towards them, and at thefame time baring his bofom, and fhewing toewhitenefs of his fkin. On his cleths being re¬moved, they gave a loud exclamation, ancione of the party, an old man with a longbeard, hideoully ugly, came ciofe to us. Idefired the boy not to be afraid, arc! intro¬duced him tothe acquaintance of this uncouth’ S . ' • .^ ( tl )j perfonage. The Indian, with gre^t gfntie-i nefs, laid his Viand on the child's hat, 2nd» afterwards felt his clothes, mattering to him-l ielf all the while. I found it neceflary,1 however, by this time, to fend away thei child, asfuch a clo(e ccnne&ion ratijer alarm-1 ed him; and in this, the comlufion vejifiedI I gave no olfence to the aid gentleman.—Indeed, it was putting ourfelves cn a parwith them ; as I had obferved. from the fii H:,that fome youths of their own, though con-I fiderahly tdder than the one with us, werekept back by the grown people. Severalmore now came up, to whom we made va¬rious prefents; but our toys feemed not tobe regarded as very valuable, nor wouldthey, for a long time, make ar y returns forthem; though,before we pa; ted, a large clubwith a head ahnoft 1’ufficient to fell an cx,. was obtained in exchange for 2 lookirg-glas .Thefe people feemed at a lefs to know (pi o-bably from our want of beards) of what fexwe were; which having underflcod, theyhurft into the moft immoderate fi s of laugh¬ter, talking to each other. *t the fime time,with fuch rapidity and vociferation, as 1 hadnever before heard, ■'ifter nearly an hour'sconverfation, by fgns and geflures, they re¬peated the word veral times, whichfignifies Be-gope, and walked away from usto the head of the Fay.”/V J ** JI he adventurers, in the late expedition,i iiad leveral more interviews with the nativeswhich ended in fo friendly a manner, thathopes were entertained of bringing abouta ccnneftion with them. The firtt qbje<fi ofour people was to win their affc&ion, andthe next to convince them of our fuperiority.Fo this purpofe an officer, one day. prevailedon one of them to place a target, made ofbark, againfl a tree, which he fired at withn'pffiol) at the diftance of fome paces. TheIndians, though terrified at the report, didnot run away; but their aftonifhment exceed¬ed their alarm, on looking at the ffiield whichthe bail had perforated, As this produceda little fhynefs, the officer, to d;ffipate theirfears-, and remove their jealouty, whiftledthe air of Marlbrouk^ with which they ap¬peared highly charmed, and imitated himwith equal pleafure and readinefs.After the governoi had arrived at SydneyCove, and had ere£led temporary huts, whereever they could get places clear of trees andbuffies, they began to clear the ground, andlines are ti aced out for the principal ftreetsot an intended. town, to he terminated bythe governor’s houfe, the main guard, andthe criminal court. In fome parts of thisfpace temporary barracks were firft erected,but no permanent buildings will be fufFer edto be placed, except in conformity to theplan laid dewn. The principal ftreets are( .13 )two hundred feet wide'; the ground pr, for them to the fouthward, is nearly level,and an excellent fituvion For building on.And when grants of land are made, everyhoufe is to have an allotment of fixty feetin front, and one hundred and fifty in depth.•Thefe regulations will preferve uniformityin the buildings, and a free circulation of airat all times.We cannot ommit to relate the follow¬ing ludicrous adventure. Some of the of-.ficers one day met a native, an old man, inthe woods. He had a beard of a confider-ahle length, which his new acquaintancegave him to underfland, by iignals, theywould rid him of, if he pleafed; llroakingtheir chins, and (hewing him the fmooth-nefs of them at the fame time. Atlength the old Indian confented; and oneof the officers, taking a penknife from hispocket, and making the befl (ubftitute forlether, he could find, performed the ope¬ration with great fuccefs, and, as it proved,much to the I king of the olo man, whc). ina few days afeer, rrpofed a confidence inour people, of which they had hithertoknown no example, by paddling nlong-fideone of the (hips in his canoe, and pointingto his beard. Various arts were intfFdduallytried to induce him to enter the (hip ; but, as1 e continued to decline the invitation, a bar¬ber was Cent down into the boat along-fide( 14 ) , .the canoe, from whence, leaning over thegunwale, he coe^plied with the with of theold beau, to his i .finite fiatisfadfion. fnaddition to the confcqucnces expedted fromtftis dawning of cordiality, it afforded pi oof,that the beard is cbnfidered by theie peopleas an incumbrance than a mark ot dignity.The n cefTary previous bufinefs havingbeen tra»ladled, upon an appointed day, thecommiflions were read, and polfi^fiion Wastaken of the uttlement in form. The marinebattaiion being drawn up, and the convi&safiemhlcd on the occafion, his majefty's com-mifiion was read, appointing ins ExcellencyArthur Philip, Efq; Governor and CaptainGeneral in and over the territory of NewSouth Wales, and its dependencies, togetherwith the .\dbof Parliament for eflabli&ingtrial by law within the fame; and the patentsunder the great Pal of Great Britain, forholding civil and criminal courts of judica¬ture, by which all caies of life and death,as wel? ae matters of property, were to bedecided.It was fo ind neceflary to enforce the rig¬our of the law, in order to refirain the viola¬tion of public tccurity. A fet of defperateand hardened mifereants leagued themfdvesfor the purpofes of depredation; anrl, as isgene rally the cafe, had infinuation enoughto entice others, lefs verfed in iniquity, tobecoine iaftyutuental ia carrying it on.On the 2d of March, 1788 governor Phil¬lip went with a iopg boat to examine a bayahout eight miles to the north of Port ]ack-fon, called Broken Bay; the night theyllepr in the boats, as the ra ives. t!^o, friendly,ieexned to be very numerous Next day theyexamined the land, and found it much higherthan at Port-Jackibn. Great trees were ieengrowing to tne fummits of the mountains,which appeare’d acceffible only to birds.—In this excurfion, feme interviews with thenatives took place. Several women camedown to the beach vih the men; one ofthefe, a young woman, was very talkativeand cheerful. This was a fingular inffarce,as the women appear lefs cheerful than themen, and appear to be under great awe andfubjection. They*certainly are not treatedwith much ttndernels as they are often feenin the canoes, fi'hing, with young childrenat the breafl. 'T he lively young lady, thefccond day flood up in her canoe, and gavea long, which was far from being unplcafant,'The men very readily affifted the Engli/h inmaking a fire, and behaved in the moflfriendly manner. It was now hi fl obfervrdby the governor, that many of the womenhad loft two joints from the little finger ofthe left hand; as thefe appeared to be allmarried women, he, at firfl, corjedtnred,that privation to be a part of the marrhge-ceremony; but we afterwards found young( 16 )girls, of five or fix years of age, wantingthefe two pints, and leveral man icri wo¬men whole'fingers were all perfect. Pater-fon, in his travels through \frica, lays, hemet with a tribe of Hottentots, all ot whomwanted a j unt of the little finger; the rea^Ion they gave, was, that it was a cure fora certain difeafe, to. which they were fub-j cl when young.When the plan of the fettlement was fiiltprojofled, it was apprehended, that the fibresfenc from England, together with the pro¬duce of the country, would be fufficient forthe fupport of the people, till they Ihouldreceive a further fupply; but the eatablevegetable productions being fcarce, the ani¬mal productions not abounding in that de¬gree as was imagined, and the filhenes prov¬ing unfuccefsful, they were, in confequence,reduced to an allowance of two ounces ofmeat a*day; and frefh provifions became{career than in a blockaded town. The lit¬tle live-flock, which, at fo much rxperice,and with fi> many difficulties, had beenbrought on fhore, prudence forbade the ufeof; a‘d fi'h, which, for a fhort time^fiadbeen tolerably plenty, w'ere now fcarce,. andhad it not been for a ftray kanguroo, whichnow and then fell in the way, they would,in general, have had no firth rood Nowonder then that the feurvy began its uiualravages, and extended its baneful influence( *7 )through all defcriptiens ot pcrfors, particu¬larly as the vegetable produ&icns of thecountry neither abound nor ?.re filicaciousis the lemoval of this difeafe.. Many otheccalamitous circumftances combined to ag-grivate 'heir dithefs ; and amongff others,the whole Hock cf black cattle. corlh'Ung offive cows and a bull, had flrayec into thewoods, and notwithilanding the mcif dili¬gent fearch could not be found. But atlength, they were happily relieved by thearrival -of a fleet from England with amplefupplies; and frem the laft accounts 'ranf-mitted fince that time, it appears, that theproduce of the country being more abundantin cohfequence of a better knowledge beingobtained of its refou; c< s, and the fifhtri'rsproving more fuccefsful, ttify are now iua more comfortable fitijation j and theirfuture ptofpedts are more prom ifieg, as'isevident from, the lull accounts, which.wereconveyed by Governor Philip to Lord Syd¬ney, v. ho caufed them to be laid before 'theHoufe ctCommoi s; Snd which wefhai! hoetranferibe ; as they tend to fhew the pr f ntBate of the colony, arid, no. doubt, proveacceptable to the reader. *Sydney-cove, Feb*. 12. 1790 I had thehonour of informing your LorcUhip, that afettlemert was intended to be made at apLce 1 named Rofe liiU. ^t B e head ofthis harbour there is a creek, which, at half{ i3 )flooJ, has water for large beats to go threemiles up; and one mile higher the wateris freth, and the foil good- \ very indui-trious man, whom I brought from England, ;is employed there at prefent and has underhis diretdion one hundred convidts. who areemployed in clearing and cultivating theground. A. barn, granarv, and other necei-fary bui'dings areert«5led; and twenty-fevenacres of corn promife a good crop. Thefoil is good; and the country for 20 milesto the weifward, as far as I h^ve examined,lies well for cultivation: but then the labourof clearing the ground is very great ; andi tnve fetn none that can be cultivated with¬out cutting down the timber, except tomefew particular fpots, which, from their fi'us-tion, lying at a difiance from either cf theharbours, can be c.f no advantage to us acprefent: and, 1 prefume, the meadows,mentioned in Captain Cook’s voyage, were1feen from the high grounds about Botany-Bay, a.-ul from whence they appear well tothe eye, but, when examined, are found tobe mariflies, the drainings of which wouldbe a wafieof time, and not to be attemptedby the firft fettlers. At Sydney-Cove allthe officers are in good huts, and the menin barracks: and, although many unforeieendifficulties have been met with, l believethere is not an individual, from the gover¬nor to the private foldicr, whofe fituation( 19 ) / //3-i; not more eligible at this time, than he hadieatbn to expert it could be in the couife ofhe three years ftation; and it is the fameidth the convirts ; and thofe who have beenny ways indufliious, have vegetables in•lenty. The buildings now c?rrying on areif brick ard done The houfe intended fornyfelt was to confiR of only three rooms;mt, having a good foundation, lias beennlarged, contains fix rooms, and is fo well>ji!t that l prefutne it will Rand for a greatlumber of years. i he {lores have beenately over-run with rats; and they arequally numeroi s in the gardens, wherehey do confiderajrde damage ; ard, as theois in tire (lores could only be known byemoving all the provifions, that being done,nanv cades of flour and rice were found toJv damaged, or totally deftroyed. l-he lolsn tbeie two articles by the rats, ilrce land~ng, has been more than taco weight.“ No robbery has been committed, forTome time; and the convirts. in general,have behaved better than 1 ever exptrted.Only two convirts h-ve luftbred death !?.ftyear. Four were «xecuted the fird yrar.“ As near two years have now paffed (ii.eewe fird; landed in this country, fome judg¬ment mav. be formed of rhe climate; and Ibelieve a finer or more healthy climate is notto be found in any pait of the world. Of11032 people, who were landed, many ofwhom were worn out by old age,the feurvy,and various diforders, only 7 2 have died ini21 'months ; and oy the furgeon’s return, itappears that 26 of thofe died from difordersof long (landing; and which it is more thanprobable, would have carried them off much(boner in England : 5-9 children have oeen:born in the above time. In December thecorn at Ilofe-hil! was got in : T he corn wasexceedingly good; abqut 2oobu(helsof wheatand fixty of barley, with a Cmall quantity offlax indian-corn, and oats ; all which is pre-4(erve d for Iced. Here I beg leave to obferve:to your Lordljhiip.that if fet lers are Tent out,,and the convicts divided amongft them, thisI’ettlerrtent will very (hortiy nraintain kfeif;but without which, this country cannot becultivated to any advantage. At preient ihave only one perfph (who has about tooconvict., under his oireAlon ^ who is employ¬ed in cultivating the ground for the pubiimbenefit, and he has t eturned th quantity ofcorn above-mentioneii into the public Here.:The officers have not railed (efficient to fup~port the little live-dock they have. Some>ground ( have had for cultivation will return1about 40 ibufhels of wheat; fo that the pro¬duce of the labour of the eonviits employedin cultivation, has been v*ry flmrt of whatmight have been expended, and Vhich 1 takathe liberty of pointing out to your Lordfhipin this place, to (how us fully as pollible. th-1( 21 )|ate of this colony, and the neceiTity of theU^nvifts being employed by thofe who hav«n intereft in their labour. The numbersmployed in cultivation will be increafed asac neceflary buildings atefiniftied but which/ill be a work of time; For there are num-ers in this fettlement who do nothing to¬wards their own fapport, except thole em-doyed for the publim4‘ In order to get a right knowledge of theountry round the lettlemejit, frequent vc-iurfions have been made fir.ee the Ihips fail¬'d in November 1788; fo n after which,went to Botany Bay and the five days {pentn that harbour, confirmed me in the opinionhad firft formed of it, that it afforded noeligible fftuation foj fixing the tetiiement,ind was a bad harbour not affording goodfecurity for (hips againft the eafterly winds,which frequently blow very hard in the win¬ter : and which has been further proved by.Captain Hunter, and the firfi lieutenant ofthe Sirius, who went to fu; vey tb B,v“ After haying been leveral times '■ iththe boats at B.oken*bay, in order to exa¬mine the different branches in that harbour,a river was found ; but the want of provifi-ons obliged us to return without being ableto trace it to its fource which has lince beendrne; and in the 16 days we we^ then out,all thofe branches which had depth ofwater, were traced as far as the boats could .( 22 ) iproceed. The breadth of this river, namedthe Hawkefbary, is from 300 to 8co feet ;and it appears, from the foundings we had,,to be navigable, for the largelt meichant-(hips, to the foot of Ivichmcnd-hill; but asthe water, near the head of the river, lome-times r:fes, after very heavy rains, thirty feetabove its common level, it would not be fifefor (hips to go fo far up; but 15 or 20 milesbelow RicUmond-hiil, they would lie in frefliwater, and perfectly fife. I (peak of Rtch-mond-liill as being the head of the river, itthere growing very flialiow, and dividinginto two branches. The high rocky coun-^try which forms Botany-bay, is loft as youproceed up the ilawkf (bury ; and the banksof the river are there covered with timber;the foil is rich light mould ; and judging fromthe little we law of the country, 1 fhould fup-pofe it good land to a very confiderable ex¬tent. f he other branches ot frelh water are{hoals, but probably run many miles furtherinto the country than we could trace them inour boats. On thefe rivers we faw greatnumbers of wild ducks, and (bme blackfwans: and on the banks of the Hawkt (buryfeveral decoys were lot to catch quails.Governor Philip had now determinedto return by land to Port-jackfon; and as hewent keep'mg near the fea-coaft he chfcover-ed a greatmumber of the natives a.Tembledat the mouth of a cave, the party was withinI ten yards of th;m tefore they were pereeiv-I ed, and the governor had hardly time toi make his people halt before numbers appear-I ed in arms: the man who feemed to take theI lead, made figns for theEnglifh to retire; butt feeing the governor approach alone unarmedj and in a friendly manner, he gave his fpearI away, and met him with perfeft corfidence ;and in lefs ’.ha* 3 minutes, the Englifh partyfound themfelVes furrouuded by stamen;but nothing appeared of treachery in the in¬habitants, or taking any advantage of fupe-riority of numbers. The moment the friend-'fliip was accepted, they laid down their fpearsand (lone- atchets, and joined the party in amofl amic ble manner : numbers of womenand children remained at a diflance, but werebrought down by the men tt> receive fomeprefects, which were given tht m. ^nd whenthey faw that the Englifh were going towardsthe next cove, one of them, an old man madeligns that he might be allowed to go firft: heafeended the hill, calling out, holding up hishands, to the natives, that tbofe with himwere friends. The Governor faw about 40men there, and from the parties he had fecnin Botany-bay, Port-J-cklon, and Broken-bay, the inhabitants could not exceed 1500;and the country inhabited no lefs than fiftymiles from the fea.“ The natives of New Holland feem tohave no great averfion to the new fettlers;[ 24 3and with refpeft to the advantages the mothercountry may derive from the eftabhftnnentof the colony, if intended only as a receptaclefor convifts, this place ftands un- quailedfrom the fituat.ion, extent, and nature ofthe country; but in a comercul view, itsimportance will not be great, as the NewZealand hemp, of which fangume expecta¬tions were formed, is not a native of the foJ,and an adjacent ifland. where an afiurancewas entertained of finding it, has it not.Pe.f-ms induced to emigrate hither, arere -vnended, before they quit England, ton »'e all their wearing appa.el for them-feive , f amily and fervants; their furniture,tr Is of- every kind, and implements ofhuftnndry, among whkh a plough need notfcc included, the hoe being ufed, as they widtouefc' at no place where thefe artic.es canbe purchafed to advantage.tc I N 1 S.rt