ONmalt:TO WHICH ARE ADDED,GRAVE CONSIDERATIONS ONTHE USE OF THE ,r.IB A R LEY BR EB.WITH A SONG,BY A RECLAIMED DRUNKARD.Sac, for henceforth resolv’d I-amTo sink the Brute, exalt the Man ;An' close adhere to reason’s plan.Adieu, for aye, to Whusky—oh.DUNFERMLINE:PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLEH.1831.•ISERMON ON MALT.The late Dr. Dodd, a very worthy minister |who lived a few miles from Cambridge, hatrendered himself obnoxious to many of the Cantabs,* by his preaching against drunkennessSeveral of whom meeting him on a journey, de¬termined to make him preach in a Irollovv tree,that was near the road side. Accordingly ad¬dressing him with great apparent politeness,they asked him if he had not lately preached!much upon Drunkenness : On replying in theaffirmative they insisted, that he should nowpreach from a text of their choosing. In vaindid he remonstrate On the unreasonableness ofexpecting him to give them a discourse withoutstudy and in such a place; they were deter¬mined to take no denial, and the word malt wasgiven by way of text ; on which he immediately,delivered himself as follows :—“ Beloved ! Let me crave your attention ; Iam a little man, come at a short warning, topreach a short Sermon, from a small subject inan unworthy pulpit, to a small congregation.Beloved, my text is tw#//: I cannot divide it in¬to words it being but one, nor into syllables, itbeing but one: 1 must therefore, of necessitydivide it into letters, which I find to be thesefour j M, A, L, T.M, my beloved, is Moral—A, is Allegori¬cal—L, Literal,—T, Theological. The Moralis set forth to teash you Drunkards goodStudents of the University.3Manners : Therefore, M, masters, A, all of-on, L, listen, T, to my text. The Allegori-■al is, when one thing is spoken and anotherking is meant. Take the thing spoken, Malt;^ thing meant is the juice of the malt; whichu Cantabs make M, your master, A, youriparel, L, your liberty, T, your trust. Theliteral is according to the letter : M, much, A,i, L, little, T, trust. The Theological is ac-ding to the effects it produces ; and these Ito be of two kinds ; first, in this world ;ndly, in the world to come. The effectsit works in this world are :—In some, M,ii^’der, in others A, adultery, in all, L, loose-nivi of life, and in some, T, treason. Theelects in the world to come are;—M, misery,A anguish, L, lamentation, and T, torment.Aid so much for this time and text.“ I shall improve this first by way of exhor-taion : M, masters—A, all of you—L, leave—T, tippling; or secondly, by way of excom-minication ; M, masters—A, all of von—L,km for—r. torment. Thirdly, by way ofcSpion, take this ;—a Drunkard is the annoy¬ance of modesty—the spoil of civility—the des¬truction of reason—the brewer’s agent—thealehouse’s benefactor—his wife’s sorrow—hischildren’s trouble—his own shame—his neigh-borr’s scoff—a walking swill-bowl—the pictureot a beast, and the monster of a man.IMPORTANCE OFTemperance Societies.TIntemperance is so alarmingly on the increisein England as to have attracted the attentionotthe first magistrates. The use of distifedspirits is frightfully extending. A gentlemanwho lately stood before the door of a dram-shopin Manchester, counted dram-drinkers ente^agat the rate of ten per minute, of whom six frefemales and two of these young g, ,1s I M re¬sults of observations made m Leeds by differentgentlemen, at different dram-shops, are stillmore alarming. In Scotland, before leupe-rance Societies commenced their glouous caeeiof reformation, each family was consuming, oian average, ten gallons of distilled spirits amal1V It is acknowledged that th. ee-fourtm oall the pauperism in our country, four-fifttB Oall aggravated crime, one halt of all nia^.ssone half of all sudden deaths, and one fourth call deaths in persons above twenty years of agtare caused by spirituous liquors. Shall berev ^lence and patriotism sleep on, with such exteminating ruin around them? It - ep^emdisease appears in a street of one of om j.utowns, or aboard a single vessel ; if acase of hydrophobia is recorded by any ii\ o  . i5public journals ; what trepidation throughout theland, what horror of the evil, what multipliedproposals of remedy ! And yet what is one orwhat are both these scourges, in their widest andmost unsparing havoc, in comparison with in-temperance ? In one week distilled spirits fillmore graves than all the cases of hydrophobiain the history of the disease. In the midst ofthis cruel destruction, the friends of 1 emperancehave looked in vain for some prospect of delive¬rance. I he devouring flood has burst over allthe barriers which the pulpit, the press, and thevoice of warning have raised in its way, and tlfeyear 1829 shows the abounding increase of fourmillions of gallons of ardent spirits above thepreceding year. Something must be done,then, more than has been done already, for it isnotoriously evident that the exertions vvhich havebeen hitherto employed for the suppression ofintemperance, have been to a melancholy extentunavailing.Temperance St cieties offer to public conside¬ration no utopian project, but a simple, easilyapplied system, which has been in operation withsuch unparalleled success for three years in theUnited States of America, that though it com¬menced on a population drinking oh an averageright gallons a man, annually, the consumptionof ardent spirits has been diminished three-fourthseven in some of the largest towns, and ],2(><>drunkards have been reformed. I have I efoi <■me private letters from different parts of the6Linked States, describing in the strongest termsthe reformation which Temperance Societieshave produced. I have before me also reports1of the American Sunday School Union, HomeMission Society, Seaman’s Friend Society, with' the minutes of the General Assembly of tin1.Presbyterian Church, and a number of sermonsand other publications ; and in every one of.these Temperance Societies are spoken of as de¬servedly ranking among the be st blessings whicha kind providence ever conferred upon the newworld. Though little inclined to place implicitconfidence in any man or body of men, I shouldfind it hard to believe that the General Assenebly of the United States, consisting of 1,600ministers, were blinded by Anti-clu istian delusion,when at their meetings in two successive yeav>they recommended to all the people under theiicharge entire abstinence from distilled spirits^and pledged themselves to set the example ;and I should find it still harder to believe thatGod would so bless a work of the devil, as tomake Temperance Societies for three years pro¬ductive of a reformation which in many respectsstands unparalleled in the history of the world.The abolition of the slave-trade is deservedlyconsidered the glory of modern times; ye)neither in the evils to be removed, in the oppo¬sition and difficulties to be encountered, nor inthe amount of good done, is the abolition of th*slave trade to be once named in comparison withthe temperance reformation. I ask, then, liiyunoii to "ivethe name of common sense, is there any thing j„the disposition or constitution of Englishmen toprevent their following the noble example ofheir sons and brethren across the Atlantic, inshaking off the vilest slavery that ever degradedbody and soul ? I was in company not longsince with a gentleman who, a few 4eks previous, had dined on board an American steam¬boat with eighty passengers (a fit representationdudiTT and not a" i^ivi-ua] 0f: all these used one drop of spintuous!r?r8*wZy r i*not 80 inp, , , hat to be done can lie done inEngkmd as well as in America.EhstUled spirits have been proved, not onlyby the judgement of the best authorities livingf.nd dead' % the experience of tens ,7fthousands on both sides the Atlantic, to \„ ff,aM common pnnposes completely useless. Moreo k can I e done, more hardship and fatigue ofbody a,,d'mnd endured for a welk, or nfouthcesy thh" f d,mateS flnd nndw ^ circumstan-ZLr7 I any- TTr* from spi,’*tu°us•trH / • ^ m,an 111 health has no more nee<] <jfNolT"": IT °[ add or laudanum,o man in health who enters on a conscientiousnquiry can hud any otl*r apology for the <m>-T'i“ <L2,gratification of appetite, without any permane. ftore every temperate man is shut up to thisqmry with his conscience before his God; will6my use of ardent spirits as a common beveragecontribute to bring1 them out of their province asa medicine, and place them in a situation whichthey cannot occupy with safety ? will my exam¬ple give a sanction to a merely useless luxurywhich neither does me nor any man in healtligood, and which spreads over the face of mycountry wretchedness and ruin that mock allcalculation ? Distilled spirits are m their ownnature and character tempting ; thev lead on¬ward to excess : the moderate use of them is, mits own nature, calculated to produce the drun¬ken appetite. While in the continued use otardent spirits I could not conscientiously pray“ Lead us not into temptation. I he state otthe body and mind which constitutes < ninken-ness is formed by what has been falsely called“ the moderate use ot ardent spirits.Distilled spirits are in their own nature amicharacter injurious to the healthy human frame:they possess similar properties and producesimilar effects with henbane,laudanum, and other substances, which all allowto he poisonous ; and they should therefore heremoved by all me,, in health as mnetous. 1 hesestatements of the properties ot distilled spit sare not mine, for I have no right to prononuce„ judgement upon the subject: they ate theunanimous judgement of medteal authorities,whose names do honour both to the old and newworld Now if there are men of informationand character who know this judgement to be9Le, they are imperatively called upon to giveit a public contradiction. It those eminent me¬dical practitioners in Dublin, Manchester, andWarrington, who have published to the wonthat “ no cause would be calculated so much toi mprove the health of the community as an en¬tire disuse of ardent spirits f if they are decei.v-ino- the world, or are themselves deceived, then,n'the name of the public whom they have abu¬sed, 1 call upon every man who knows thenignorance or falsehood to stand forth andconvict them.liut if they are not deceived themselves, norwish to deceive others, then I put to the con¬science of every moderate drinker who expectsto stand at the last judgement seat of his Dod,how, with the information before him, winchhas been extended by means of TemperanceSocieties, he can continue to use, as a commonbeveridge, a substance with respect to which thefirst authorities in the world have declared, mopposition to their own interest, “ that its con¬tinued use cannot be persevered in without thecertainty of injury, and that it should be renouu-' ced by all persons in health as a most noxioussuperfluity.” If the judgment of the hist phy¬sicians in America, in Germany, m Britain, isnot sufficient to stamp distilled spirits as com¬pletely useless for all common purposes ; ascalculated in their own nature to form the dim -ken appetite ; and as being in their own pro¬perties most decidedly noxious; then thioughJyou I call on the public press to provoke dis¬cussion and elicit truth on this most importantsubject—a subject intimately connected withhealth and morals, and with all that gives blissor entails misery in the world to come.The fundamental principles of TemperanceSocieties are however completely independent ofmere human opinion. Their foundations arelaid bioadly and deeply in Christian charity andself preservation. If Temperance Societies donot furnish a practical comment on the 14-thchapter of the Epistle to the Romans, I pro¬fess myself completely iguorant of its meaning,and shall feel myself much indebted to any onewho shall furnish a just explanation of the pas¬sage,—“ It is good neither to drink wine norany thing whereby thy brother stumbleth or ismade weak,” The most cursory observation issufficient to convince any man that the argu¬ment drawn from Christian charity for abstain¬ing now from the drink of Englishmen, is in¬calculably stronger than that for abstaining fromthe. drink of the Jews in the time of the ApostlePaul. But I grant too much to the opponentsof Temperance Societies by allowing wine tohare been the common drink of the Jews.Every one acquainted with their history knowsta.it water was their customary beveridge ; andthat though there vveie drunkards of Ephraimami of Manasseh, too, yet the Jews as a nationwere temperate ; that w ine may he used as a<• umion Leverage, as in France and Italy, andnyet the people eontinue, like the French amiItalians, temperate ; and drunkenness may bea rare crime—-even among men whose businessis pleasure, and \yho set at defiance all lawshuman and divine. On the contrary the wholehistory of distilled spirits proves to a demonstra¬tion, that even under the shackles of heavy du¬ties and high prices, distilled spirits stamp everycountry intern perate where they are commonlyused— that they cannot be moderately used as acommon beverage by the population of anycountry, even though, like the Scotch, they areeducated and religious; and that in proportionto the quantity of distilled spirits used, will bethe amomrt of pauperism, ami crime, and mad¬ness, and disease, and premature mortality. NofriendofTemperar.ee Societies, so far as 1 know,has attempted to argue that wine in its purestate is different now from what it was eighteencenturies ago, or different in England’ fromwhat it is in Judea ; but I, among others, havemaintained that the wines in common use inthese countries are mixed with considerable por¬tions of distilled spirits, and therefore must hewidely different from those spoken of in thebible,, which were only “the pure blood of thegrape, the simple product of fermentation.I he wines in common use now are three timesstronger than those used in 1750. Our ales,also, in various places, are becoming frightfullystrong ; and the general use of ardent spiritshas led to the establishment of a standard of12strength, which, however dangerous and to hedeprecated, all makers of fermented liquors, in¬fluenced by the public taste, seem emulous ofapproaching. Banish ardent spirits, and withthem the vitiated appetite for high stimulantswhich they have created, and you contributepowerfully to bring fermented liquors to theirnatural state.As I have not heard any one yet in soberearnest advance the objection that, since date-wine and medicated wine of the grape are re¬ferred toin the Scripture phrase “Strong drink,”therefore the sacred writers spoke propheticallyof distilled spirit, and give permission for itsuse when in after ages it should be discovered ;as I have only heard this objection advanced inbanter, 1 shall not, by endeavouring to answerit, employ myself in raising ghosts for the pur¬pose ot laying them. Those who argue for theu-.e of wine, “ touch not” the principles oflemperance Societies, lor Temperance Societieshave neither pronounced the use of wines to hesinful, nor have they passed any judgement re¬specting the expediency or inexpediency of itsuse under present circumstances. Agtinst dis¬tilled spirits, the fell destroyer of their race,they wage an exterminating warfare—againstdistilled spirits as a common beverage, respect¬ing which, in addition to till that has been alrea¬dy published, the following document lias beensigiicd by four professors of the medical faculty>f the Edinburgh University, eleven membersof the Royal College of Physicians, the presidentand twenty-seven fellows of the Royal Collegeof Surgeons, and thirty-four other Edinburghmedical practitioners.“ We, the undersigned, do hereby declareour conviction that ardent spirits are not to beregarded as a nourishing article of diet ; thatthe habitual use of them is a principal cause ofdisease, poverty, and misery in this place, andthat the entire disuse of them would powerfullycontribute to improve the health and comfort ofthe community.”Let the opponents of Temperance Societiescome forward boldly before the public, and prove,as they are bound to do by their opposition, thefollowing false and absurd propositions, and Ifor one will withdraw my name from the list ofTemperance Societies and commence drinkingspirits once more :—1 st. Distilled spirits and wine are the samesubstances in different degrees and strength.2nd. The danger to a community is notincreased, whatever additional strength be com¬municated to the liquor commonly in use.Small beer is as dangerous a common drink asbrandy, and the power of producing a habit isnot in the proportion to the strength of thestimulus.3rd. Because the use of wine is permittedin scripture, therefore it is right and commen¬dable to use daily, or as a common beverage,any other intoxicating substance which shall ever41be invented, whatever be its strength, or its in¬sidious and destructive properties, provided ithas the power of making a man drunk.Because alcohol is a constituent part of wine,therefore it is safe and proper to drink alcoholdiluted with water (which is distilled spirits)though water cannot change its properties ; justupon the same principle as a man who hastaken as a febrifuge, Fowler’s drops—a solutionof arsenic and potash—could not in consciencerefuse to eat arsenic, a good creature of God,and a constituent of an excellent medicine.4th. Provided it be ascertained that anynewly invented substance possesses the power ofcausing drunkenness, then it would be prepos¬terous and unscriptural, and assuming greaterstrictness than Christianity warrants, to institutean enquiry whether or not it is either poisonousor unwholesome ; for Christ who drank wine,and the prophets who spoke of strong drinkhave already warranted its use, aud let no man,oW pain of being nick-named an “abstinenceman,” dare to' propose an enquiry into its pro¬perties and effects.5th. Christ, by using wine', gave a sanctionto the use of distilled spirits at markets and fairs,and wakes and funerals, and all treatings ; heput himself on the same circumstance with themoderates of the present day, who, by treatingwith an insidious and violently intoxicating, notto say poisonous production of art, and bygiving their sanction to a vast catalogue of tic-15titious excellencies attached to it, and supportingby their example and influence an endless trainof’ tempting ceremonies, customs, and practices,have constituted themselves head-masters in theschool of drunkenness, and he threw the shieldof his protection over all parents, who, by as¬sociating the use of distilled spirits with hospi¬tality and kindness, and love, and manhood, anda thousand fascinations, train, for coming gene¬rations, degraded pestilential drunkards.Till the truth of the following proposition'shas been established I must contend as heretofore(1 trust in the spirit of love) that 1st. Were distilled spirits only wine in ahigher degree of strength, their use in presentcircumstances would be wholly inexpedient.2nd. Distilled spirits are a different sub¬stance from wine, and the use of the latter fur¬nishes no warrant for that of the former. Dis¬tilled spirits are wholly disqualified from beingused as a substitute for wine.3rd. Moderate spirit-drinkers are thechief agents in promoting and perpetuatingdrunkenness.4th. Every man for his own sake, as wellas for that of his neighbours, should, while inhealth, let ardent spirits alone.5th. In the abstinence of the temperatefrom distilled spirits there is a safe and effica¬cious preventative of all the drunkenness andnameless ills to which distilled spirits give birth.bth. The union of the temperate for givingrespectability to abstinence from distilled spiritsaftbrds the most honourable excuse and securerefiioe for the reformation of the penitent drun¬kard, and for his protection against the persecu¬tions of the moderate.7th. The conscientious abstinence of thetemperate from distilled spirits, and their dis¬countenance of the causes and practices of in¬temperance, will put an effective restraint on ailclasses of tipplers, muddlers, and drunkards ;and the destruction of prejudices, falsehoods, andtempting practices with regard to distilled spiritswill greatly diminish the consumption ot all in¬toxicating liquors.The Temperance Reformation is advancingsteadily and with astonishing rapidity; andthough it is not much above a year old in theBritish Isles, nearly 60,000 persons in Scotlandand Ireland alone, have enrolled their names onthe list of Temperance Societies, and there arealready more than twenty societies in England.ADVERTISEMENT.One Thontand Guineas Reward Run awav from the sub¬scriber, within a few years, his whole estate, consisting of houses,lands. &c. 1'hev gradually and almost imperceptibly stole away,after being put hi motion by the magic art of one named Intrmji-.ranee, who lived in the family. Any person who will put me inre-possession of said estate, shall be entitled to the above reward.* Toper.Elizabeth Town, 28th May, 1788.N. B All persons are cautioned to beware of said Intemperance,wiio, as 1 am informed, has established in this town one ortwo place of rendezvous, wticre numbers of the incautious atedaily seduced.AN AMERICAN CALCULATION.In the New York Observer of the 4th ofJune, appears a report of the Annual Meetingof the New Yoik Temperance Society, at whichthe following facts were stated :—There are inAmerica about 3,000 Temperance Societies,eighteen of which are State Societies. Morethan 1,000 distilleries have been stopped bytheir means : and at least 3,C>00 merchantshave discontinued the sale of spirituous liquors,in consequence of the diminished demand.There are upwards of 300,000 members en¬rolled in the Temperance Societies, and as greata number of persons are supposed to have alto¬gether given up the use ol ardent spirits, whohave not yet enrolled themselves. Not less thanone hundred taverns have given up selling ar¬dent spirits by retail, and it is calculated, about3,000 drunkards have been reclaimed throughthe instrumentality of these institutions. In onetown, populated by 2,000 persons, not one newdrunkard has been made in four years. In atown where the quantity of ardent spirits drankhad been reduced nine-tenths, in consequence ofthe inhabitants, generally, having enrolled them¬selves as members of Temperance Societies, thedeaths, announced in the bill of mortality, havebeen diminished one-fourthThe influence of ardent spirits on the mindis similar to that which is exerted upon the body.Strang drink generates, perhaps, as many men-IVtal as corporeal diseases. Many of them, too,are diseases of a portentous and fatal type. Themomentary effect of this stimulus is exhiliration.H r its influence .the mental powers are strong-y excited, and are sometimes capable of makino-a mighty and gigantic effort. But this state ofexcitement cannot logg continue, and it must befollowed by a tremendous intellectual reaction,it is a blazing fire which consumes itself, and-soon urns out. Let it be remembered, like-wise, that the discriminating powers are notaided, even by the present excitements of spiri-uous Uquor. 1 he imagination may mount ona jnftzer pun on, or fancy display a gaudier plumem Sur*eams ; but, in these very eases, theMnderstanding is generally emharassed, and thejadgmen* grossly perverted. I would not trust6 i care not what his intellect may be^lted by ^ong^ink, in any husi-«css which demands coo) investigation. Themind is biassed, impatient and unstrung. Thepowers of discrimination are blunted, even by amoderate use of this stimulus. It ought to' beremarked, too that the more buoyant faculties,Which appear for a time to be aided by this excitement, soon flag; and the imagination whichifaL?Clrt0Td f S°ar’ Crawls uPon the earth,V „ ot simulated even to intoxication. I amu y persuaded, and the remark is of vastimportance to professional men,—that the mosthappy wd healdrful ^ms 0f are tbosecM val™ ''POn ‘he b“v<!ra«e »f -I liat the habitual use of distilled liquorsshould sap and undermine the human intellect,mi^ht safely be inferred, even had we no factsm the case. But we are not left to the uncer¬tainties of speculation in this matter. Thebiography of drunkards has settled the question.These are the men—if you will permit me toborrow an allusion from Nature’s poet—theseare the men who ‘ put an enemy in their mouths,to steal away their brains ’ Look at the livingdrunkard, and yon will find him only the rem¬nant ot his former self. His immortal mind isnot less blighted by this withering curse tlianhis dying body. IIis memory, once retentiveand ready, has lost its wonted elasticity andpower. His understanding, which could oncegrasp4 and wield, and elucidate almost anysubject, becomes debilitated and childish. Inhis cups, the drunkard is generally a temporaryfool or madman. His very horse exhibits theexternal symbols of mortification for .the load hecarries, and his dog is ashamed to Leep hismaster company. But idiotism and insanityare not always temporary in the case of thedrunkard. Both of these effects often becomepermanent in the future man. Idiots may hefound almost every where, who have broughtthis calamity upon themselves hy the immode¬rate use of ardent spirits. From men of intel¬lect, aud men of hnsiness, and perhaps men ofpre-eminent attainments, they have debasedthemselves to a common level with the swine.20In some cases reason seems to be blotted out,and the miserable victim of ’ntemperariee livesand dies a literal fool. In other cases still morenumerous, there is a manifest approximation toidiotacy, where this deplorable consequence doesnot actually follow. Who has not witnessedthe wane of intellect around him ? Who hasnot seen the shrewd accountant become dull :the profound philosopher rendered obtuse ; thearch politician bewildered ; the eager flight ofthe learned advocate flag ; and that precocity ofgenius which, in the dawn of life, attracted thesteady gaze, and promised a giant manhood,dwindle into mental insignificance and death ?The world may, perhaps, stand and wonder atthe change, and speculate upon the latent cause.But lift the curtain and the mystery is solved.There stands the bottle, and the death of intel¬lect is in it. Trace the effects of this habit up¬on the talents, and learning, and prospects of ayoung man of early promise ; fix your eye uponone who is gifted with as fine a mind as wasever moulded by thi hand of heaven ; and lethim become addicted to his cups ; and let himcontinue to suck and suck at the bottle, andhe will ultimately possess (to borrow an allusionfrom Dr. Rush), just about the intellect of a‘ Calf.’ As to madness, every one knows thatit is a common effect of excessive drinking. Itis stated on good authority, that one-third of allthe cases of insanity, in the United States, maybe traced to intemperance as the direct cause.21Oh ! what misery does this poisonous cup in¬dict ! What transfoimation of those creatureswho were made to stand erect, and were origi¬nally formed in the image of God ! ‘ To benow a sensible man, bye-and-by a fool, and pre¬sently a beast! O strange ! Every inordinatecup is unblessed, and the ingredient is a devil.”In the United States, there are 200,000paupers supported at the annual expense of tenmillions of dollars. - The reports of hospitals,penitentiaries, and alms-houses, justify the state¬ment that three-fourths, or 150,000 of thes< Jmiserable beings, were reduced to pauperism b1the single vice of intemperance; and thes*.sell-made beggars are supported by the natioiat the annual expence of 7,500,000 dollars. Iisixty years—the ordinary lifetime of a man ttemperate habits and of a sound constitution-in sixty years, 450 millions of dollars would lexpended, in these States, for the support <drunken beggArs ! And this tax must be palby the temperate.Another item must be considered in estimaing the annual expense of intemperate drinkin— I mean the time lost to the nation byprem;ture disease and death. Thirty thousand atevery year, sent to an untimely grave, in thcountry, by the excessive use of ardent spiritThere is probably, on an average, a loss of nless than ten years in these 30,000 drunkardwhich they might have lived, if they had Idmen of sober habits. Here, then, is an ann22destruction of 380,000 years of human 'life andlabour. Now say, that each individual, on anaverage, might earn a hundred dollars annually,besides his own support—and this he might do,it he were a temperate and industrious man—and you have the sum of thirty millions of dollarslost to the nation on this score.Again, there is a vast sacrifice of time by theliving drunkard. He must have time to takehis glass—time to post oft to the dram shop—time to talk, and laugh, and swear, with histippling companions—time for his periodicalcarousals—time to stagger through the streets—and time to doze .away a thorough drunkenfrolic.—Suppose that one half of the ardentspirits consumed in the United States is usedby men of intemperate habits, and that each pint,sn an average, causes the loss of four hours’time, and that each hour is worth sixpence :—md who cannot earn sixpence in an hour ?Here, then, we have 60 millions of dollarsmnually sacrificed, in this country, in the livingdrunkard’s time.Now, put these items together, and beholdthe appalling amount. Cost of spirits annuallyconsumed in the United States, thirty millions>f dollars—for the support of paupers, 7,500,000dollars. And in this computation, I have saidlothing of sheriffs’ fees and cost of court—nothing of the time taken by wives to wait ondrunken husbands—and nothing of surgeons’ind physicians’ bills. If these were added, the23annual tax imposed upon the United States bythe existence and operation of ardent spirits, inall their diversified relations, might be fairly setdown at tne round sum of 130 millions of dol¬lars. Let any considerate man look at this, andhe will be prepared to lift his voice, and heart,and hand, against the very existence of this tre¬mendous evil. 1 will not tell you what mightbe done, if the proceeds of every drop of ardentspirits annually consumed in these United Stateswere judiciously applied to strengthen and beau¬tify our country, and reform and save the world.With an annual income of 130 millions of dol¬lars, saved by the entire disuse of ardent spirits,and this country would stand on a pinnacle al¬most as elevated as heaven. This incomewould pay off the national debt in little morethan five months. In two months and sevendays it would equal in amount the annual reve¬nue of the United States. This money, savedfrom the all devouring throats of drunkards,would, in a few years, accomplish every thingthat this nation could wish to do, either athome or abroad. It would run a canal alongevery water course ; stretch a national road fromthe Bay of Passamaquoddy to the Gulf ofMexico ; build a navy that would line our coast,and bid defiance to every invader j and plant asecond North American Republic on the shoresof the great Pacific. In two years it wouldfurnish a fund which would give the Bible anda Gospel Ministry to the entire population ofour globe.24THE RECLAIMED DRUNKARD'S SONG.From the Gasomc ter.Oh ! Whusky! I ha’e gi’en thee o’erI vow I ne’er can lo’e thee more;For, ah ! my heart grows sick and sore.When I think on the Whusky—oh !We tak’ a drap to lichten care.But sure it brings us muckle mair:And pooches toom, an pantries bare ;A’ comes o’ drinkin’ Whusky—oh !In peace an’ freen’ship we begin,But Whuskv sune breeds strife an' din :An’ mony, mony, deadly sinWe practise o’er the Whusky—oh !We think a’e nicht’s to end it a’—Niest day we’re fit for nocht ava;An' for a week, or part o' twa.We daddle at the Whusky—oh !Syne rest^ or sleep, we can get nane;But phrenzied wake, or fev'rish dreamO' devils blue, to haul us hame.For drinkin' o' the Whusky—oh !An' horrors waur than I can tell—Still haunt us like the fien's o' hell;It shurely was the Deevil's sel'That first distill'd the Whusky—oh !But noo, the poo'r o' Whusky's gane;How chang'd ! how happy is the scene !The body's hale,—the mind's serene,—Sin' I left aff the Whusky—oh !Sae, for henceforth resolv'd I amTo sink the Brute, exalt the Man ;An' close adhere to reason's plan.Adieu, for aye, to Whusky—oh.