TttBtLIFE & PROPHECIESOPMr. Alexr. Peden,Late Minister of the Gospel,AtNEW GLEN'LUCE IN GALLOWAY;IN TWO PARTS.TO WHICH IS ADDEQ,HIS REMARKABLE LETTER TO THE PRISONERSIN HONNOTAH CASTLE, JULY, 1685.STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY M, RANDAttTHELife and PropheciesOFMr. Alexander Peden,I. Mr Alexander Peben was born in theparish of Som in the sheriffdom of Ayr. Afterthat he past his course at the College, he was em¬ployed for some time to be school master, pre¬center and session clerk to Mr John Guthrie,minister of the gospel at Tarbolton When hewas about to enter on the ministry, a youngwoman fell with child, in adultery, to a servantin the house where he stajed ; when she foundherself to be so, she told the father herself, whosaid, 1'il run for it and go to Ireland, father itupon Mr. Peden, he has more to help you tobring it up (he having a small heritage) than Ihave. The same day that he was to get his li¬cence, she came in before the Presbytery andsaid, I hear you are to licence Mr. Peden to bea minister; but do it not, for I am with child tohim. He being without at the time, w as calledin by the moderator ; and being questioned aboutit, he said I am surprised, I cannot speak ; butlet none entertain an ill thought of me, for Iam utterly free of it, aud God will vindicate mein his own time and way. He went home, andwalked at a water-side upwards of 24 hours,IN TWO PARTS]PART. I3and would neither eat or drink, but said, I havegot what I was s -eking and I will be vindicated,and that poor unhappy lass will pay dear for itin her life, and will make a dismal end. andfor this surfeit of grief that she hath given me,there shall nzver one of her sex come into mybosom : And, accordingly, he never married.There are various reports of t re way that hei was vindicated : Some say the time she was inchild-birth Mr Guthr e charged her to give ac-: count who was the father of that child, and dis-: charged the women to be helpful to her until she! did it. Some say that she confessed, others thati she remained obstinate. Some of the people,l) when l ma !e enquiry about it in that country¬side, affirmed, that after the Presbytery had beenj at all pains about it, and coul i get no satisfaction,they appointed Mr Guthrie to give a full relatioa: of the whole before the congregation, which hel did ; and the same day the father of <hat childi being present, when he heaM Mr Guthrie beginto read, he stood up, and desired him to halt,ii and said, “ I am the fat hr of that child, and II desired her to father it on Mr Peden which hasii been a gfjat trouble of consoience to me, and1 Tcould get no rest till I came home to declare1 it.” However it is certain, that after she wasi married, every thing went cross to them ; andI they went from place to place, and were reducedi to great poverty. At last she came to that same1 spot of ground where he stayed upwards of 2i|i hours and made away with herself.2. After this he was three years settledit minister at New Glenluce in Galloway; andi when he was obliged, by the violence and tyranny! of that time to leave the parish he lecturedj upon Acts xx 17 to the end, and preachedupon the 3ist. verse in the forenoon, There-i fore watch and remember that for the space of4 'three years, I ceased not to warn every onejnight and day, with tears.” Asserting that hehad declared the whole council of God, and hadkept nothing back; and presisted that he wastree of the blood of all souls. And in the after- l|noon he preached on the 32 verse, “ And now Jbrethren. I commend you to God, and to the aword of his grace, which is able to build you up, uand to give you an inheritance among all them ithat are sanctified.” Which was a weeping day ||in that kirk; the greatest part could not contain j|themselves, but they sorrowed most of all when mhe told them that they should never see his face |in that pulpit again.—He continued until night:and when he closed the pulpit door he knocked Hhard upon it three times with his Bible, saying Uthree times over, I arrest in my Master’s name, l|that never one enter there, but such as come in||by the door, as I did Accordingly, neiiherjcurate nor indulged minister ever entered thatlpulpit, until after the revolution, that aPresbyterian minister opened it.1 had the account from old persons in that,parish, who were witness to it, worthy of all.credit.3. After this he joined with that honest and Izealous handful in the jear 1666, that was bro¬ken at Pentland hills, and came the length ofcClyde with them, where he had a melancholyview of their end, and parted with them there.James Cubison of Paluchbeaties, my informer,to whom he told this, he said to him, “ Sir, youdid well that parted-with-them seeing you waspersuaded they would fall and flee before theenemy —Glory, glory to God, that he sent mtnot to hell immediately 1 for I should have slayecwith them though I should have been cut all irpieces.’’4, That night the Lord’s people fell, and fle<r~5before the enemy at Pentland-hills, he was in afriend’s house in Carrick, sixty miles from Edin¬burgh, his landlord seeing him mighty troubled,enquired how it was with him; he said, “ To¬morrow I will speak with you and desired. some candle. That night he went to bed, theinext morning calling early to his landlord, said,I have sad news to tell you, our friends thatwere together in arms appearing for Christ’sinterest, are now broken, killed taken and fledi every man.’’ ■-He said, “ Why do you speaki so ; There is a great part ®f our friends prisoners: in Edinburgh.” About forty-eight hours there-)! after they were fully confirmed in the truth ofii, it.5 Auer this, in June 1673, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Hugh r ergusou,i of KnocLiow, in Carrick who constrained himto tarry all night. Mr. Peden told him, that itwould be a dear nights quarters to them both.Accordingly they were both carried prisoners toEdinburgh. Hugh Ferguson was lined in athousand merks, for resetting, harbouring andconversing with him. The council ordered fiftypounds sterling to be paid to the Major out ofthe fines, ordained him to divide twenty-fivepounds sterling among the party that apprehend¬ed him. some time after examination, he wassent prisoner to the Bass where and at Edin¬burgh, he remained untill December 1668, thathe was banished.6. While prisoner at the Bass, one Sabbath*i morning, being about the public worship of God,I a young lass about 13 or I't years of age, cameto the chamber door mocking with a loud laugh¬ter : He said, “ Poor thing, thou mocks andlaughs at the worship of God, but ere long Godshall write such a sudden surprising Judgementon thee, that shall stay they laughing, and thou6shall not escape it.’* Very shortly after, she waswalking upon the rock, and there came a blastof wind and sweeped her into the sea, whereshe perished.While prisoner there one day walking upon |the rock, some solders passsing by him, one ofthem said, “ Devil take him ” He said, ‘ Fy. fy, |tpoor man, thou knowest not what thou art say- |ing ; but thou wilt repent that.” At which 1word the soldier stood astonished, and went to Jthe guard distracted, crying aloud for Mr. Peden;saying, the devil would immediately take himaway. He came to him again, and found him inhis high mind under deep convictions of greatguilt. The guard being changed, they desiredhim to go to his arms; he refused, and said, hewould lilt no arms against Jesus Christ his cause,and persecute his people; he had done that toolong. The governor threatned him with deathto-morrow about ten of the clock ; he confidentlysaid three times, though he should tear all hisbody in pieces, he should nev.r lift arms thatway. About three days after, the governor puthim out of the garrison setting him ashore. Hehaving a wife and children, took a house in EastLothian, where he became a singular Chmtian,Mr. Peden told these astonishing passages to theforesaid John Cubison and others, who informedme7 When brought from the Bass to Edinburgh, Jjand sentence of banishment'passed upon him inDec. 1678 and sixty more fellow-prisoners, forthe same cause, to go to Am nca never ai beseen in Scotland again, under the pai. ofucath;after this sentence was nast. he several times ^aid,that the ship was ot yet huiit that should tasehim and these prisoners to Virginia, or any otherof the Eugdsh plantations in At erica.— OneJames Kuy, a solid aim grave Cliriatim, beingone of them, who lives in or about the Water ofLeith, told me, that Mr. Peden said to him,James, when your wife comes in, let me seeherwhich he did After some discourse, hei called for a drink and when he sought a blessing,he said, “ Good Lord, let not James Kay s wifemiss her husband, till thou return him to her inpeace and safety; which we are sure will ber sooner than he or she is looking for.” Accord-i; ingly. the same daymonth that he parted withIII her at Leith, he came home to her at the Watera ofL^ith8. When they were on shipboard at the Water:i of Leith, there was a report that the enemiesH were to send down .thmr.bkins to keep them fron*! rebelling at the report of this they were dis*>coUraged : Mr Peden came above the deck andsaid, Why are ye discouraged ? You need notfear there will neither thumkins nor bootkinscome here. lift up your hearts and heads, forthe day of your redemption draweth near; if wewere once at London, we will be all set atliberty.”—And when sailing in the voyage,praying publicly he said, “ Lord, such is theenemies hatred at thee, and malice at us, for thysake, that they will not let us stay in thy land ofBcotland, to serve thee, though some of us havenothing but the canopy of the heavens above us,and the earth to tread upon ; but Lord, we blessthy name, that will cut short our voyage, andfrustrate they enemies of their wicked design that' they will no'get us where they intended; and someof us shall go richer hou>e than we came fromhome.” James Pride, who lived in Fife, anhonest man being one of them he said manytimes, he could assert the truth of this, for he1 came safely home ; and beside other things, heI bought wo cows, ana before that, he never hadone. I had these accounts both from the fore-*&aid James Kay and Robert Puntou, a knownpublic man worthy of all credit who was alsounder the same sen te ce, who lievd in the parishof Dalmony near Qneensferry.9 vhen they arrived at London, the skipper,who received »hem at Leith, was to carry themno further ; the skipper who was to receive themthere and carry them to Virginia, came to seethem, they being represented to him as thieves,robbers an evil-doers ; but when he found theywere all grave Christian men. banished forPresbyterian principles he said he would sailthe sea with none such. n this confusion, thatthe one skipper would not receive them and theother would keep them no longer, being ex¬pensive to maintain them they were all set atliberty. Others reported that both skippers gotcompliments from friends at London; however,it is < crtai'n they were safely set free, withoutany imposi ion of bonds or oaths; and friendsat London and in their way homewards throughEngland shewed much kino ness unto them.10- That dismal day, June 22d 1679 atBothwel-bridge, th-.t the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy he was forty milt s distant,near the border, and kept himself retired untilthe middle of the day, that some friends said tohi n, ‘ Sir, the people are waiting for sermon.’’Htif said. “ Let the people go to their prayers :for me l neither can nor will preach any thisday . for < ur friends are fallen, bi tore the enemyat Hamilton ; and they are hanging and hashingthem down and their blood is running likewater.”11. After tin’s, be was preaching in Gallowayin the forenoon, he prayed earnestly for theprisoners taken at and about Bothwel; but in theafternoon, when he began to pray for them, liehalted and said, Our friends at Edinburgh, thei prisoners, have done something to save their liyesthat ■jhall not do with them for the sea-billowsi sbail be many of their winding-sheets ; and the1 few of them that escape, shall not be usefull to (iod in their generation.” That was sadly1 verified thereafter. That which the greatestpart of these prisoners did was taking of thati bond commonly called the Black Bsnd, after1 Bothwel wherein they acknowledged their; appearance in arms, for the defence of the gospeland their own lives, to be rebellion ; and en-i-j gaged themselves never to make any more op-iijj position : upon doing of which, these perfidiousi enemies promised them life and liberty. This,with the cursed and sub-ti! arguments ai d advicesof ministers, who went into the New Yard,where: they were prisoners particularly, Mr,Hugh Kenedy, Mr William Crighton, Mr.I Edward Jamieson and Mr George Johnston ;these took their turn in the year where theprisoners were, together with a letter that wassent from ihat Erastian meeting of ministers, metI at Edinburgh in '.ugust 1679, for the accept¬ance of a third indulgence with a cautionarybond. Notwithstanding of the enemies’ promise,and the unhappy advice of ministers not in¬dulged, after they were ensnared in this foulcompliance, they banished 255, whereof 20.5perished in the Orkney-sea. This foul step, asI some of them told, both in their life, and whendying, lay heavy upon them all their days ; and,that these unhappy arguments and advices ofi ministers, prevailed more with them than the: enemies’ promise of life and liberty.In August 1679, fifteen of Bothwel prisoners: got indictments of death. Mr Edward Jamieson,i a worthy Presbyterian minister, as Mr U oordrowi calls him and sent from that Erasiian meetingof ministers, into the tolbcoth of these fifteen,1#Iwho urged the lawfulness of taking the bond tosave their lives; and the refusal of it would bea reflection to religion, and the cause they ap¬peared for ; and throwing away their lives, forwhich their friends would not be able to vin¬dicate them He prevailed with thirteen ofthem, wiiich soured in the stomachs of some ofthose thirteen, and lay heavy upon them both intheir life and death The prisoners taken atand sbeut Rothwel, were reckoned about fifteenhundered.Ihe faithful Mr John Blackader did write tothese prisoners, dissuading them from that foulcompliance : and some worthy persons of theseprisoners, whom he wrote to said to me withtears, that they slighted his advice and swallowedthe unhappy aavices of these ministers whowere making peace with the enemies of God,and follow their foul steps for which they wouldgo mourning to their graves. 1 heard the same llMr Biackador preach his last public sermon, jlbefore his falling into the enemies hands, in the **night time in the fields, in the parish of Livingstonupon the side of the Muir at New-houst, onthe 23d of March, after Bothwel, where helectured upon Micah iv. from the 9th versewhere he asserted, that the nearer the delivery,our pains and showers would come the thickerand sorer upon us : and that we had been longin the fields, but ete we were delivered wewould go down to Babylon. That either Poperywould overapreau this land, or he at the break¬ing in upon us, like an inundation of water.And preached upon that tex,, Let no man bemoved with these afflictions f.r ye ymrselves know,that ye arc appointed thereunto W here he insistedon what moving and shaking dispensations theLord had ixeicised bis people with in formerages, especially that man oi God, that went toIl Ti;II■ Jeroboam at Bethel, and delivered his commission: faithfully, and yet w^s turned out of the way byi an old lying prophet; how moving and stunbling[| the manner of his death was to ail Israel i \xkI, earnestly requested us to take good heed to what1 ministers we heard and what advice we follow-i ed When he prayed he blessed the Lord that| he was free of both band and rope; and that he.I was as clearly willing to hold up the public! blest standard of the gospel as ever : And sai“ fne Lord rebuke give repentance andfugwe-ness to these ministers lhat persuaded thesei] priso ers to take that bond.’’ For their pensh-ij ing by sea, was more moving a d shocking toI him than if some thousands of them had beenI slain in the field .He was thereafter taken byfi Major Johnston, in Edinburgh, and detained(j prisoner in the Bass, where he died. Ar thelij interest ot Christ lay near hi* heart through his11 lift, amongst his last words he said, “ fhe Lordii( will defer. . his own cause.12 vfter the public murdering of thesej two worthy womeu-martyrs, Isobel Allison andl! Marion Harvie in the Grass market of Edin»c burgh, January 1681. he was in Galloway ; aprofessor of some note who had more carnalf wit and pohey than to suffer him to be honestj and faithful, after reasoning upon the grounds4 of their sufferin gs alffi).>ed tnat they wouldii never be reckoned among the nu eber of martyrs.IMr Ptden said, after musing a ittle, “ Let alone,you will never be honoured with such a ueath :And for what you hav said against these twoworthy lasse«. y. ur deatn wnl be both suddenand surprising ’ Which was very shortly there¬after j the man standing at the fire smocking hispipe, dr opt down deau and that without speak¬ing more.13. In^the month of June 1682 he was in the12house of Janies Brown, in Patldockholm aboveDouglas, John Wilson in Lanark was with him.who suffered martyrdom in the Grass-market ofEdinburgh the mxt year. May 1613. Helectured at night upon Amos viii, and repeatedthese words in the 9th verse, three times And1 xvill rise against the house of Jeroboam with thesword He laid his hand on the said John andsaid, “ Encourage yourself in the Lord, and holdhim fast, John for you will win up yonder shortly,and get on your braws.” That nigh* he wentto the fields ; and to-morrow about six o’clock.John went to seek him, and found him comingto the house. He said, “ John, let us go fromthis house, for the devil is about it, and will takehis prey with him.’* John said “ We will takebreakfast ere we go it is a question when wewill get the offhr'agaiii.’’ He answered, No.noI will not eat bread in this place, our landlord isan unhappy man, the devil will get him shortly,for he will hang himsell ’* Which very shortlycame to pass. His daughter, Jean Brown wasthe fitst that got him in her arms, hanging inthe stable She was reckoned by all, to he agrave Christian lass, but from that day neverhad her 1 eahh?and died of a decay at last, aftershe had been some time in prison for her prin¬ciples fins passage the same John Wilson re¬ported several times to many, and some alive canbear witness to the truth of it.14. In the year 1680, after the murdering ofMr, Cameron, and these worthies with him atAirdsmoss, he was near Machline, in the shireof Ayr; one Robert Brown, of Cross house, wholived near New-.Vlilis, and one Hugh Binaneve,factor to the Earifof Lothian, stabied their hoi stsin that house where he was. and went to a fairj» MachJine; and, in the afternoon, when theycame to take away their horses, they got a diit.f:,. 13'.ami in tne time of it, the said Hugh, a wickedwretch both in principle and practice brokeout in a raising against sufferers particularly a-gainst Mr. Cameron ; Mr Peden being in an¬other room over-hearing all, was so grieved, thathe came to the chamber-door,, and said to thesaid Hugh. Sir bold your peace, e’er twelvet! o’clock thou shalt know what-for a man Mr.1 Cameron was, God shall punish that blasphemousi mouth and cursed tongue of vours, in such ai manner, as shall be astonishing to all that shallsee you, and shall set up a beacon to all railingliabshakehs *’ llob rt Brown knowing Mr.Peden, hasted to his horse, being persuaded thatMr. Peden .s words would not fall to the ground,and fearing that some mischief might befal himf r being in the said Hugh’s company he rodehard home. Robert went to his own house, andHugh to the Earl’s house, and casting oft' hisboors, was struck with such a sickness and painthrough h s body, with his mouth so wide, andhis tongue hanging so far out in a fearful man¬ner, that they sent for the siid Robert. Beingused to take blood, he got some blood of him,but all in vain he died before midnignt. Thesaid Robert, an old man, told me this passage,when in prison together'5 In the year 1582 he was in Kyle, andpreached upon the text. Theplowen plowed uponmy back and drew long theirjurrous Where hesaid, “ Would ye know who first yoked theirplow ? It was cursed Cain, when he drew his1 arrows so long and deep, that he let out thehearf-blood of his brother Abel; and his cursed, seed lias, and will gang summer and winter, frostand fresh weather till the worlds’s end ; and atthe sound of the last trumoet when all are in aii , • dn-ime, thesr Meets will bum and their swi >gle-v. in faJf to the ground ; the plowmen willulose their gripes of the plow, and the gadmeriwill throw away there gad* and t ien, Q thgyelling and shrieking that will be among all thiscursed seed, cianping their han Is, and cr ing tothe hills and mountains to cover them from theface of the Lamb, and of him that sits upon thethrone, for their hatred of him and malice athis people.”After sermon, when marrying a pair of folks,when the man had the woman by the hand, hesaid, “ Indeed man you have a bonny bride bythe hand, I see a covetous devil in he; she isboth a thief and a whore let her go, you will beashamed of her.” The man keeping fast her hand,he said. “ You will not take my advice, but itwill tend to thy disgrace ’’ \fter marriage, whenpraying he said, “ Good Lord, many a plowhath been yoked on the back of the church inScotland ; Pagans yoked theirs. Antichrist \okedhis, and Prelacy hers; and now the plaguedErastain indulged they huvt yoked theirs, and itill becomes tlem; good Lord cut their sheetsthat the swingle trees may fall to to theground.’* Ensign John Kirkland was witness tothis sermon and marriage, he was my dear ac¬quaintance, who told me several times of this,and more of that sermon16 About the same time, he was marryingtwo pair of folks, he said to the one, ‘ Stand by,I will not marry you this day.’’ The bridegroomwas anxious to know the reason, after enquiringprivately, he said “ You will thank me for thisafterwards, and think yourself well quat of her,for she is with child to another wife’s husband :which was the matter of fact, as time afterwardsdiscovered.17 Shortly after that sad strock at Bothwel,he went to Ireland but did^not st«y long at thattime; in his travels through Galloway, he came15’ to a house and looking in the goodman’s face,i he said, ‘ They call you an honest man hut ifi you be so. you look not like it, you will not longi keep that name but will discover yourself to bei what you are” ‘ind shortly after, he was madeto flee for sheep-s'ealing. In that short time hei was in Ireland, the Governor required of alll presbyterian ministers that were in Ireland that| they should give it under their hand, that theyhad no accession to the late rebellion at Bothwel-bridge, in Scotland and that they did not approveofit : which the most part did, and sent Mr.! Thomas Gowans a Scotsman and one Mr. Patoai from the north of Ireland to Dublin to present; it to the Lord lieutenant, the which, when Mr.Peden heard, he said, “ Mr Gowans and hisbrother Mr, Paton are sent and gone the devil’serrand, but God "ill arrest them by the gate.”Accordingly Mr Gowans by the way was struckwith a sore sickness, and Mr. Paten fell fr ,nihis horse, and broke or crushed his leg and bothof them were detained beyond expectation Ihad this account from some worthy Christianswhen I was in Ireland.18 In the year lo82 he married John Brownin Kyle, at his own house in Pristhall, thatAngular Christian, upon Marion We.r ; aftermarriage he said to the briue, ‘ Marion, youhave got a good man to be your hu band, butyou wid not enjoy him long ; prize his company,aa t keep linen by you for nis winding sheet, foryou will need it, when you are not lookin'* forit, and it will he a bloody one ”1 his came sadly to pass in the beginning ofMay, 1685, as afterwar shall appear.ly Afier this, in the year 1682 he went toIreland again, and came to the hou,e of WilliamSteel in Glenwany, in the county of Antrimhe enquired at Mrs Steel, it she wanted a10servants for threshing victual: Shc-said, they didand enquired what his wages were a day. or a-week He said l he common rate was a com*mon rule ; to which she assented At night he iwas put to the barn to bed with the servant lad, |and that night he sp*-nt in prayer and groaning,up and down the barn. To-morrow he threshed Ivictual with the lad. and the next niaht he spentthe same way; the second day in the morning,the lad said to his mistress, this man deeps none, .but groans and prays all night; I get no sleep jfor him He threshes v.ry well, and is not Isparing ol himself, though [ think he has not ||been used with it, for he can do >othing to the ||botteling ane ordering of the barn and when I ||put the barn in order, he goes to such a place, |Sand there he prays for the afflicted church of tScotland, and names so many people in the fur- llnace He wrought the second day and his Umistress watched and overheard him praying, as Uthe lad ha*i said; at night she desired her tius- ]lband 10 inquire if he was a minister, which he ndid, and desired him to be free win him and heshou'd not only bo no enemy to him, but a friendto li’m Mr Peden said, he was not ashamed ofbis office : an- gave an account ot his circum-sta..ot s : lie was no more set to work, nor to lie jjwith the lad, anti he staid a c msiderable time inthat place and was a blessed instrument f- theconversation of son e and civiliz ng of others,though that place was noted for a wi d, rudepet); le, and the Iruil of his labour appears untothi; cay. There w as a servant-ia.is in that house,that he could not look upon but with frowns;;and sometimes when at family worship be said,poi ting to her with a frowning countenance,You come from the barn and trom the byre,ret king m your lusts, and si s down among us,wc do not want vou nor none such ’' At last lie17said to William Steel and his wife, “Put thatunhappy lass from your house, for she will be astain to your family, for she is with child andwill murder it, and will be punished for thesame which accordingly came to pass, and shewas burnt at Craig Fergus, which is the usualpunishment of murderers of children there; 1had this account from John Muirhead, who staidmuch in that house, and other Christian peoplewhen I was in Ireland.20. On the second of August 1684, he was in: a Christian Scots woman’s house, called Mar¬garet Lumbernor ; that day there was an extra-cflfcHnary shower of big hail, such as he had neverij seen the like. She said, what can be the mean-i: ing of this extraordinary hail ? he said 4 Withini a lew years there will be an extraordinary stormj and showers of judgement poured out up mB Ireland : but Margaret thou shall not live to seei it.” And accordingly she died before thatI rebellion ; and the rest had a sad accomplishments at Derry and the water of Boyn.21. On the second of February, 1685 he wasi in the house of one Mr Vetnor; at night he and[j John Kilpatrick Mrs Vernor’s father, a very old'I worthy Christian, he said to him, “ John thei world may weel want you and me,’’ John said,1 “ Sir, I have been very fruitless and useless alli my days, and the world may well want me, butI your death will be a great loss.” *• Well John,i said he you and I shah be both in heaven short¬ly ; but though you be much older than I, myi soul will get the forestart of yours, for i will bf>s lirst in heaven ; but your body will get the a j' vantage of mine, for ye will get rest in vo *grave until the resurrection ; but for me, I "irgo to the bloody land ^this was his ordinar m‘:Mof speaking, bloody or sinful land, wh^spake of Scotland) and die there ; and thee .' nemies18out of their great wickedness, will lift my corpseunto another place; but I am very indifferent,John for I know my body wi 1 lie among thedust of the martyrs, and though they should takemy old bones and make whistles of them, theywill be all gathered together, in the morning ofthe resurrection ; and then John, you and I,and all that will be found having on Christ’srighteousness, will get day-about with them,and give our hearty assent to their eternal sen¬tence of damnation.’’ The same night afterthis discourse, while about family worship, about10 or 11 o’clock, explaining the portion ofscripture he read, he suddenly halted and heark¬ened, and said three times over. What’s this Ihear ; and hearkened again a little, and clapt hishands and said, “ I hear a dead shot at the throneof Britian, let him go yonder, he has been ablack sight to these lands, especially to poorScotland : we are all quite of him ; there has beenmany a wasted prayer wasted on him.’* And itwas concluded by all, that same night, that un¬happy man Charles I died. I had this accountfrom John Muirhead and others who were pre¬sent, and confirmed in the truth of it, by someworthy Christians when I was in Ireland.22. Upon the 4th ofFeburry 1685. he preach¬ed at a wood side near the said Mr. Vernor’shouse; he read the whole of the xlix psalm ; af¬ter reading he charged the hearers, that noneof them open their mouths to sing, but thosewho could do it knowingly and believing ; forsome few lines lew opened their mouths. butas John Muirhead and John Waddel, who werepresent, (two solid Christians & great sufT'errcrs,who Iwed and died in the parishes of Cambus-nethen and Shots) said to me, they and some o-thers, could not contain and forbear singing, butbroke out with their whole hearts and whole19strength, so that they where witness to suchloud singing, through the whole psalm Afterthe singing, in prefacing, he cried out, “Packand let us go to Scotland, let us flee from onedevouring sword and go to another; the poorhonest lads in Scotland, are running upon thehills, and have little of either meat or drink, butcold and hunger : and the bloody enemy are pur¬suing and murdering them wherever they findthem, their blood is running like water uponscaffolds and fields; rise, go and take part withthem for we fear they bar. us out of heaven.Oh ! secure Ireland, a dreadful day is comingupon thee within a few years, that they shallride many miles and shall not see a reekinghouse in thee; Oh , hunger, Derry, many a paleface shall he in f iee : and fire fire upon a town,whose name I have forgot, which was all burntto ashes. This had an exact accomplishment &years thereafter And for the profanity of Eng¬land the formality and security of Ireland, forthe loathing and contempt of the gospel, coven¬ant-breaking, and innocent blood shed in Scot¬land, none of these lands shall escape ere all bedone. But notwithstanding of all this, I’ll tellyou good news, keep in mind this year> month,and day, and remember that I told you the ene¬mies have got a shot beneath their right wing,and they may rise and fly like a shot bird butere this day seven years, the strongest of themall shall fall.” Then: upon the sixth, he was inthat wood all day, and at night he came to thesaid Mr Vernor’s house, where several of ourScots sufferers were; he said “ *Vhy are you so.discouraged ; I knew ye have got ill news of th*clreauful murder of our friends in Scotland ; b atI will tell you good news, that unhappy treach- .erous, leacherous, man, who has made the Lord’speople in Scotland, tremble these years bygone20h»s got his last glut in a lordly dish from hisbrother, and he is lying with his tongue cold inhis mouth/' The news of this came not to Ire¬land for 24 hours thereafter The foresaid JohnMuirhead and others of our Scots sufferers, whohad heard him preach the Sabbath day before,concluded this was the shot beneath the rightwing, that he spoke of, Charles II, dying theFriday's night before.23. After this he longed to be out of Ireland,what through the fearful apprehensions of thedismal day of rebellion in Ireland that came u-pon it in four years thereafter, and that he mighttake part with the sufferers of Scotland. Hecame near the coast one morning ; John Muir¬head came to him lying within a hedge he sai i,“ Hare ye any news John ?” John said, ‘ Thereis great fear of the Irish rising.’’ He said, “Nono, John ; the time of their arising is not yet;but they will rise, and dreadful will it be at last.He was long detained waiting for a bark, notdaring to go to public ports but to some remotecreek of the sea.—Alexander Gordon of Kinstuirin Galloway had agreed with one, but Mr Pedenwould not sail the sea with him, having someforesight of what he did prove afterwards. Inthe beginning of August, before this, Kinstuirwas relieved at Enterkin path, going from Dum¬fries to Edinburgh prisoner, when the news of itcame to Ireland, our Scots sufferers their ac¬quaintance were glad of the news especiallythat Kinstuir had escaped. He said, “ Whatmeans all this Kingstuiring ? There is some ofthem relieved there, that one of them is worthmany of him ; for all will be ashamed of himere all be done''’ Being in this strait he said toRober Wark. an old worthy Christian, worthyof credit. “ Robert go and take such a manwith you, and the first bark you can find, cor*-21pel them, for they will be like the dogs in Egypt,not one of them will move their tongue againstyou.” Accordingly Robert and his comradefound it out so, and brought her to the secretplace where he was, When Robert and hiscomrade came and told him, he was glad andvery kind and free; but he seemed under a cloudat that time. He said, “ Lads, I have lost myprospect, wherewith 1 was wont to look over t«th^ bio dy land, and tell you and others, whatour enemies and friend were going : The deviland 1 puddles and rides time about upon oneanother But if I were uppermost again, I shallride bard and spurgaw well : I have been pray*ing for a swift passage over to the sintul land,come of us what will And now AlexanderGordon is away with my prayer wind but itwere good for the remnant in Scotland he neversaw it; for as the Lord lives, he shall woundthat interest ere he go off the stage.”This sadly came to pass in his life, and was areproach to it at his death. — % little beforethey came off, he baptised a child to John Max*well a Glasgow man, who was fled over fromthe persecution : in his discourse before baptism,he broke out into a rapture, fortelliag that blackday that was to come upon Ireland & sad daysto Scotland, and after all this was to come gooddays. Mrs Maxwell or Mary Elphingston themother of the child, yet alive in Glasgow toldme this, that in the time he was asserting thesethings, she was thinking and wondering whatground of assurance, he had for them, he criedaloud shaking his hand at her, and said Wo¬man thou art thinking and wondering withinthyself, whether 1 be speaking those things outof the visions of mine own head, or if I betaught by the spirit of God ; I tell thee womanthou shall live and see that X am not mistaken.”22fShe told me, that she was very lately deliver¬ed, and out of her great desire to have her childbaptized before he came off, that she took tra¬vail too soon; and being weak, and so surprisedwith telling her the thoughts of her hearts, thatshe was in danger of falling off the chair. Atthis exercise also he told them, that he could notwin off till he got this done, and this was all thedrink money he had left in Ireland, and to thefamily, (pointing to the landlord) for all thekindness he had experienced from them. Afterbaptism they got breakfast there was plenty ofbread upon the table, and seeking a blessing, heput his hand beneath the bread, holding it upwith much affection and tears, said, “Lordthere is a well covered table. & plenty of bread ;but what come* of the poor young kindly honestlad Renwick. that shames us all, in staying andholding up his fainting mother’s head,, when ofall the children she was brought forth, there isnone will avowedly take her up by the hand ; andthe poor cauld hungry lads upon the hill ? Forthe honour of thine own cause, let them notstarve ; thou caused a ravenous bird, greedy offlesh itself, to feed Elijah and thoa fed thypeople in the wilderness with angels food; andblessed a few loaves and small fishes, and madethem sufficient for many, and had experience ofwant weariness cold and hunger, and enemiesdaily hunting for thy life, while in the world ;look to them and provide for them. We willget the black stone for leaving him and them.”—The waiters being advertised of the bark be¬ing in that place, they and other peopL came u-pon them, which obliged them that were tocame off, to secure the waters and people J alto¬gether, for fear of the garrison of Carrickfergusapplebending them, being near to it, which o-»hved them to come off immediately, however23it might be with them. After that he and twen¬ty-six of our Scots sufferers came aboard, bestood upon the deck and prayed, there being notthe least wind where he made a rehearsal oftimes and places when and where the Lord hadheard and answered them in the day of theirdistress and now they were in a great strait.Waving his hand to the west, from whence hedesired the wind, and said, “ Lord give us aloof-full of wind : Fill the sails. Lord and giveus a fresh gale, and give us a swift passage overto the bloody land, come of us what will.” John Muirhead, Robert Vark and others whowere present, told me, that when he began topray, the sails were all hanging straight down;but ere he ended they were all like blown blad¬ders ; they put out the waiters aad other peo¬ple, and had a very swift and safe passage Thetwenty-six Scots sufferers that were with him,having provided themselves with arms and be¬ing designed to return to Scotland, there beingthen such a noise of killing, and indeed the dinwas no more than the deed, it being then in theheat of killing time, in the end of February,1685 When at exercise in the Bark, he said,“ Lord thou knowest these iads are hot spirited,lay an arrest upon them that they may not ap¬pear ; their time is not yet; though Monmouthand Argyle be coming they will work no deliv¬erance ’’ \t that time there was no report oftheir coming, for they came not for ten weeksthereafter. In the morning after they landed,he lectured before they parted siting on a braeside where he had fearful threatnings againstScotland, saying, the time was coming, whenthey might travel many miles in Galloway andNithsdale, \yr and Clydesdale, and not see areeking house, nor hear a cock crow And fur¬ther said, and his soul trembled to think, what24*would become of the indulged, backslidden, andupsitten ministers ef Scotland; as the Lord lives,none of them shall ever be honoured to put a rightpin in the Lord’s tabernacle, nor assert Christ’skingly prerogative as head and king of his church.To the same purpose, said the never-to-be-for¬gotten Mr Donald Cargill, within eight hours ofhis martyrdom, that he feared though therewere not another ministry in all the earth, hewould make no more use of them in a nationalreformation ; but send dreadful judgments uponthemselves, and a long curse upon their posteri¬ty. Mr Rurtherford said, in his day, 1656, Thatsad and heavy were tlie judgements and indigna¬tion from the Lord, that was abiding the un¬faithful watchmen of Scotland : meaning the un¬happy Resolutioners ——When he (MrPeden)ended, he prayed earnestly for many things, par¬ticularly that all the sitjs they had committed inIreland might be buried in that place, & mightnot spread with them over the sinfull and.2k- When the greater part took their farewellof him, he said to the rest- To what house orplace shall we go? One Hugh Kennedy said.We will go to such a house. He said, Hevvie,we will not get in our nose there ; for the deviland his bairns are there. Notwithstanding Hughwent, and found the house full of the enemies,and that night a woman in the house made a-way with herself. Hugh came quickly back andtold him. He said we will go to such a house,1 have an errand there When they went, thegoodwife was dying under great doubts andfears i where he was a blessed instrument ofcomfort to her and said to Hugh, Hewie, thisis the errand 1 had here.25 They went estward somewhat contraryto his inclination, they ; ame to the tep an hill,upwards of two miles distant from the place■25i they designed, he halted and said, “ I will not goone foot farther this way; there is undoubtedlydanger before us ’’ An herd lad being there, he; gave him a gross, and desired him to go to thatj house and fetch him meat and news Wheni the lad came to the house, the goodwife hastedand gave him meat to them, saying, ‘ Lad runihard, and tell them, that the enemies a'e spread,and we are looking for them here every minute.”As the lad was going from the house, eighteenof the enemies foot were near crying stand dog,I The lad ran, and six of them pursued half aimile, and fired hard upon him, the ball wentn close by his head. All that time Mr Peden con-itinued in prayer for him alone, and with the rest,being twelve men ; when prating with them he.said, “ Lord shall the poor lad that is gone ourerrand, seeking bread to support our lives loosehis; Direct the bullets by his head, however.near, let them not touch him ; good Lord spreadsthe lap of thy cloak and cover the poor lad.”it And in this he was heard and answered, in that.there was a dark cloud of mist patted him andthem,26, About this time there was an honest poorI wife brought him and them some bread and milk;i when seeking a blessing he said, “ Now in this; bloody land, this poor woman has endangeredI'.her life in bringing bread to support ours ; wei h cannot pay her for it, but Lord, it is for thy sakethe has brought it ; there is no need that sheshould be a loser at thy hand , thou givest plentyI of bread to many that are not so worthy of it;,( (giving does not. impoverish thee, anu with-hold-jing does not enrich thee: give the poor Wifetwenty bannocks for these few.’’ And the Wifeisaiu several times afterward, she got many ban¬nocks so that she was never so straitened for.bread as before.£627. At tliis time, upon a Sabbath.night, hepreached in a shield or sheep-house in a desartplace : a man standing at the door as he came inhe gripped him, and said, “ Where are jouf-oing Sir, go home, you have neither art norpart with us, there will be a black accountheard of you ere long ” A ccordingly very short¬ly thereafter he went to Edinburgh and tookthe black test. That night he lectur’d on thevii. of Amos. “ 1 will set a plumb-line in themidst of my people Israel ” He cried out,“ Oh 1 how few of the ministers ot Scotlandwill now answer the plumb-line; Lord sendus a Wtlwood, a Cargill, and a Cameron, andsuch as they and make us quit of the r&A.And I will rise against the house of Jeroboamwith the sword rle said, *'I will tell jougood news, our Lord will take a feather out ofAntichrist’s wing, which shall bring down theDuke of York and banish him out of thesekingdoms, and will remove the bloody swordfrom above the heads cf his people : And therewill ne>er a n an of the name pf Stewart sit u-pon the throne of Briton after the Duke o' York,whose reign is now short for iheir treachery,lechery tyranny, & shedding the precious bloodof the Lord’s people : But, oh ! black, black,Mack will be the day that will come upon In¬land, that they shall travr 1 forty miles, and notsee a reeking house, nor hear a cock crow.’’—At this he started up to his feet, and clapt his (hands, and with a ravishing voice cried aloud,‘ Glory, glory to the Lord, that he has accept¬ed a bloody sacrifice of a sealed testimony offScotland’s hand : we have a bloody clout to holdup, and the lads that got the bullets thro’ their ,heads the last day at Glentrol, their blood has |made the clout redder. When our Lordupon the bloody clout, he will keep the27'of his avenging justice in the sheath for a time,'but if Scotland shall not consider the mercifulidav of their visitation nor his long-suffering,i(patience and forbearance, lead them them to re-ipentance, as we fear it will not, but harden■ them in their sin. and the greater part turn gos-Ippl-proof and judgment-proof and wax worse(and worse, then will the Lord accomplish ailthat he has threatened, well-deserved, fore-seen,Idav, of vengraoce, when he begins he will alsojraake an end especially against the house of Eli,tfor the iniquity which they cannot but know.”ftlWhen ended, he and those that were with him,flay down in the sheep house, Sf got some sleep jijHe rose early, and went up to the burn-side, &!stayed long : When he esme into them, he didsing the xxxii Psalm from the 7th verse, to theend ; when ending, he repeated the 7th verse.Thcu art my hiding-place thou ihalt.From trouble keep me free :Thou with songs of deiiverence,About shah compass meSaying, “ These and the fallowing are sweet(line which i got at the burn-side (his morning,:anc well get more to-morrow, and so we’ll gettdai ly provision ; He was never behind with anyithat put their trust in him ; and he will not bein our con mon nor none who needily dependsiron him, and so we wid go on'in his strength, *i roasting mention of is rigteousness and of hisonly,” The foresaid James Cubison went eightmiles with him ; when he took good night,he said, •* Sir, I think I’ll never see you again,”He said, James, you and 1 will never meetragain iu time.’’ And two several times he w'entijto Ireland before, when they prayed, he toldt'them, that they would meet again. The said28James, John Muirhead, and others of our Scosufferers, who were present gave me these acounts29 Shortly after the) landed from Ireland 1Galloway the enemy got notice, they beinithen in garrisons, foot and horse, and it beinkilling-time the alarm came to them in a mo*ning. that f ot and horse, were coming upwthem the foresaid John Muirhead being struc'with a voilent pain in his forehead, they sturteup to run for it : He said, * Pray, stay, ladslet us pray for old John ere we go*” He stooup and said “ Lord we hear teJl that thy enemies and ours are coming upon us, and thohast laid thy affliction on old John : have piton him Lord, for his enemies will have none!his blood will run where he lies ! spare him athis time, we know not if he be ready to die.)And, as John told me with tears in his tyeithe pain in his head, and the indisposition c|his body quite left him, and he started up anran with the rest. The enemies seeing then;!pursued them hard, sometimes the hordes, ansometimes the foot being near them; mosshoggish ground did cast about the horses. Atter they had run some considerable way, the |got some little height between the enemy anthem ; he stood still and said, “ Let us prahere ; tor if the Lord hear not our prayers, ansave us, we are dead men, and our biood «irun like water ; If we die, let the enemy kill u«let our blood fill up their cup, that the dayvengeance that is coming on them may be hastened.” ihcn he began and said, “ Lord, it ithy enemies days, hour, and power ; they manot be idle, but hast thou no other work fcthem but to send them aiter us i bend them a:ter them to whom thou wilt give strength tflee, for our strength is gone ; twine them abot29he hill Lord, and cast the lap of thy cloack o-Jer Riihl Sandy, and their poo’- things, and saves this one time and we will keep it in reraem-erance, and tell it to the commedation of thywdnesj, pity, and commpassion, what thou didi ir us at such a time,” In the mean time, thereas a dark cloud of mist came betwixt them,ilfter prayer, he ordered two of them to giveiotice of the enemy's motion and the rest to0 alone, and cry mightily to the Lord for deli-[ erance. In the mean time that they were thus• tereiscd, there came posts to the enemy, to goid pu sue after Mr Renwick, and a great com-ifenv with him. After the enemies were gone,:r c.dte;! them together, and said, “ Let us notIrgr t to return thanks to the Lord, for hearingid answering us in the day of our distressb nd chaiged the whole creation to pra’se theord ; and also adjured the clouds to praise him1 hen he sat down by the side of a well, and en«mired if they had any crumbs of bread i someil them had some crumbs ; and when seeking aJessing, he said ‘ Lord, thou who blessed thew loaves and fishes and made them sufficient: r many, bless this water and these crumbs to; for we thought we would never have need-any more of these creature-comforts ”29 A tew days after this, the foresaid Johnuirhead was in a house alone; at a distance>m any other, and in the morning was a darkst, and he knew not whether to go or wherefind them ; only he heard him speak of the:me of the place, wh^re he was to baptise someddren , ‘in gave a sixpence to a lad to conductn to timi place, which was six miles distant :hen lie fa ne, he was fraying. After baptismcame t" John. & said, " Poor straying sheep,sotrouble! morning for you ! Do not this again,otherwise it will f»re worse with you.”31 A little after this, he being yet in Gallo¬way, John MuirheaJ aiul some otliers being withhim, John said to him ‘ This is a very melan¬choly, weary, time ” it being billing tiuflb. Mereplied, ‘ There are more dark weary days tocome yet, when your pulpits will be full of Pres¬byterian ministers, and it will turn that dark up¬on you. that many shall not know what to do,whether to hear or forbear; and they shall thenbe reckoned happy that wan weel thro' at Pent-land, Botlnvel and Airdsmoss. and wan fairly offthe stage and got Martyrdom for Chiist: for theministers will cut off many of the most zealousgodly at the web’s end ; but I wall be hid in agrave. They enquired what would become ofthe testimony of the church of Scotland; Heplucked the bonnet off his head and threw- itfrom him saying, “ See ye how my bonnetlies; The sworn to and sealed testimony ofthe Church of Scotland will fall from among thehands of all parties and will lie as closs uponthe ground as you see my bonnet lie. How la¬mentably is this accompli; bed, to the observa¬tion of all who se with half an eye.32. \t this time it was seldom Mr Pedencould be prevailed on te preach, frequently an¬swering and advising fouk to pray meikle, spy¬ing It was praying fonk that would winthrough the storm : they would get preaching ;both muckle and good, but not muckie good of |it, until judgements be poured out, to make the ,land desolate.” And at ether times. “ SVeneeded not to look tor a great or good day ofthe gospel, until the sword of the Frencheswere amongst us to make a dreadful slaughter ;and after that, braw good days.” He and MrUonald Cargil, saw as it had been with one eye,and spake with one breath ; and, frequentlywhen they pressed him to preach, he had theea^ne expressions in his answers.3d. There were three lads murdered at Wig¬town, and at the same time he was praying at| Ciaigmyne, many miles distant : Me ciied out,! There is a bloody sacrifice put up this day at1 Wigton.,, There were the lads of K rkelly :And those who lived near, knew not of it, till itJ was past. 1 had this account from WilliamM Dougal, an old man in Ferryton, near Wig-| ton worthy of credit who was present.34. After this in 4uchengrooch*muirs, inNithsdale, Captain John Matthison an 1 othersI being with him, they were alar ned that the en-| eniies were fast approaching upon them : Theyde.'igned to put him in some hole, and coveri him with heather, he not being able to run hardI by reason of his age ; he desired them to forbear| a little until he prayed, where he said, “Lordi we are ever needing at thy hand; and if we had| not thy command to call upon thee in the day of;> trouble, nor thy promise of answeiing us in the[> day of our distress we wot not what would be-V come of us : If thou hast any more work for usi in the world, allow us the lap of thy cloak thisb day again : And if this be the day of our going|j off the stage, let us win honestly off, & comfor-H tably through, and our souls will sing forth thyo praises thro' eternity, for what thou hast doneHI to us and for us ” When ended, he ran alone aij little, and came quickly back, saying, “ Lads,n the bitterness of this blast is over; we will be nont more troubled with them to-day.” Foot andin horse came the length of Andrew Clark’s inij Achengroock, where they were covered with aJj dark mist : When they roared out like fleshlyH devils, and cried, “ There is that confounded‘M nii-r. again ! we cannot getjthese damn’d whig*32pursued for it.” I had this account from Capt.John Mstthhon. t.35. . bcur this time he was in a house in theshire of A>r. (James Nisbet, yet living in theCastle of Edinburgh, Can bear witness to thetruth of this) and one night he was standing be¬fore the fire, where he uttered some impnea-tions upon the cursed intelligencers who hadtold the enemy that he was come out ofireland.W hen James took him to the place where hewas to rest a little. James said. ‘ The servants itook notice of your imprecations upon the intel¬ligencers ” de said, “ Ye will know to-m >r-row about nine o’clock, what ground I have forit : I wish thy head may be preserved, for itwill be in danger; for me. I will take my owntime., a. d be gone from this house.” Sametime and night, he went to a dtsart place, anddarned himself in a moss hag. The next morn*'ing James was going to the harrows, and abouteight o'clock there was a troop of the enemy-surrounding the house; when James saw them,he ran lor it, and they pursued hard after himtill he wan to a moss, where they could pur¬sue him no further with horses : Then they fir¬ed upon him and he having knot* upon his hair,on each side of his head, one of their bullets*took away one of the knots. He ran tvhereMr Peden was who said. “ Oh! Jamie, Jamie,I am glad your head is safe, for l knew it wouldhem danger’’ He took his knife and cut a-way the other knot.. ^6 About this time he and James Wilsonin Douglas, a singularly known man to many,was at Audsmoss ; and being together sometime without speaking, as Mr Peden’s ordinarywas, when theie was any extraordinary thing infus head, they came to Mr. Cameron’s grave,where he and other eight were buried After33•sitting some time on the grave, lie gave Jamesa clap on the shoulder with his heavy hand andsaid * I am going to tell you a strange tale 1”James said, “ 1 am willing to hear it ’ Hesaid, “ This is a strange day, both of sinningand suffering; (as indeed it was, it being killingtime, wherein many fainted, and could not en¬dure the scorching heat of the persecucion } butto some, the Lord in his love, gave guards ofstrength, support and comfort, to keep themfrom fainting But, said he tho’ it be a dread¬ful .ay, it will not last long; this persecutionwill be stopt within these few years, but I willnot see it ; and ye are all lodging and prayingfor that day, but when it comes ye will notcrack so much of it as ye trow, \nd ye are avain man, James and many others, with yourbits of paper and drops of blood, but when thatday comes, there will be a bike of indulged, luke¬warm ministers from Holland, England and Ire¬land, together with a bike of them at home, andsome young things that know nothing; and theywill all hive together in one General Assembly jand the led hands with blood a d the blackhands of defection, will be taken by the hand,and the hand given them by our ministers ; andye will not ken who has been the persecutor,compiler, or sufferer ; and your bits of paperand drops of blood will be shut to the door,and never a word more of them ; and ye andthe like of you will get their baC B'de.’* Hegave him another sore clap upon the shoulder,saying, ‘ Keep mind of this, James vViison 1for, as the Lord lives, it will surely come to pass *’James Wilson told me this shortly thereafter,and repeated in the first General Assembly,when he and 1 and many others, saw the ac-C34complishment of this, in every particular, to ourgreat grief37. In the beginning of May, 1685 he cameto the house of John Brown and Marion Weir,whom he married before he went to ireland,where he stayed all night; and in the morningwhen he took farewell, he came out at the door,saying to himself. * Poor woman, a fearfulmorning!’’ twice over : “ A dark misty morn¬ing.” The next morning between five and six,the said John Browm, having gone about theworship of God in his family was going with aspade in his hand to make ready some peat-ground:the mist being very dark he knew not until cru¬el and bloody Claverhouse compassed him withthree troops of horse, and brought him to hishouse and there examined him; who, though hewas a man of stammering speech; yet answeredhim solidly and distinctly ; which made Claver- ,house to ask these whom he had taken to be hisguides through the muirs, if ever they heardhim preach ? They answered. “ No no he wasnever a preacher ” He said, ‘ If he has neverpreached, meikle, he has prayed in his time.’'He said ta John, *Go to your prayers, for youshall immediately die ” When he was praying,Claverhouse interrupted him three times : Onetime that he stopt him he was pleading that theLord would spare a remnant, and not n.ake afull end in the day of his anger; Claverhousesaiu, I gave you time to pray and ye are be¬gun to preach ” He turned about upon hisknees, and said, “ Sir, you know neither thenature of praying nor preaching that calls thispreaching !’’ Then continued without confusion.When ended, Claverhouse said, “ Take good¬night of your wife and children.” His wifebtanding by with her child in her arms, that shehad brought forth to him, and another child of" 35his first wife’s lie came to her and said, “ NowMai ion, the day is come that I told you wouldcome, when I spoke first to you of marryingme.” She said, ‘ Inded John, I can willing¬ly part with you ’’ Then he said, “ That isall 1 desire, I have no more to do but die.” Hekissed his wife and bairns, and wished purchas¬ed and promised blessings to be multiplied up¬on them, and his blessing. Claverhouse order¬ed six soldiers to shoot, and the most part ofthe bull t - came upon his head, which scatteredhis brains upon the ground. Claverhousc saidlo his wife. *' What thinkest thou of thy hus¬band now, woman?” She said “I thoughtever much of him and now as much as ever.’*'He said, “ It were justice to lay thee besidehim ” She said, “ it ye were permitted, Idoubt not but your cruelty would go that length..But how will ye answer for this morning’swork ?” He said, “ To man I can be answer-a rle, and for God, I will take him in my ownhand 1” Claverhouse mounted his horse andmarched, and left her with the dead corpse ofher husband lying there. She set the bairn onthe ground and gathered his bairns, and tied upup his head, and straighten his body and cover¬ed him with her plaid, ani sat down and weptover him. It being a very desart place, wherenever victual grew, and far from neighbours, itwas some time before any friends came to her :The first I hat came was a very fit hand, that oldsingular woman in the Cumberhead namedElizabeth Menzie, three miles distant, who hadbeen tried with the violent death of her husbandat Pen land, and afterwards of two worthy sons,Phomas vVeir who was killed at Drumclog, andDavid Steel, who was suddenly shot afterwardswhen taken Ihe said Marion Weir sitting u-pon her husband s grave, told me, that before36that time, she could see no blood but she was iadanger to faint, and yet she was helped to be awitness to all this without either fainting orconfusion* except when the shots were let off,her eyes dazzled. His corpse was buried atthe end of his house, with this inscription on ihis grave stone.In earth’s cold bed, the dusty part here lies.Of one rxho did the earth as dust despise !Here, in this place frem earth he took depar¬ture :Noxu he has got the garlano of a Martyr.This murder was committed betwixt six andseven in the morning : Mr Peden wa about tenmiles distant, having been in the fields all night,he came to the house about eight, and desiredto call in the family, that he might pray amo.-.gstthem. When praying, he said, “ Lord whenwilt thou avenge Brown’s blood ? Oh! letBrown’s blood be precious in thy sight! andhasten the day when thou wilt avenge it, withCameron’s, Cargil’s, and many others of ourMartyr’s n^mes : When ended, John Muirheadenquired what he meant by Brown’s blood ? Hesaid twice over. “ What do I mean! Claverhouseha.-i been at the Pres-hill this morning, and hascruelly murdered John Brown, his corpse is ly¬ing at the end of his house, and his poor wifesitting weeping by them, and not a soul to speakcomfortaoly to her i his morning after thesun-’ising. I saw a strange apparition in the fir¬mament, t^e appearance of a blight, ckar-shm-ing star, fall from heaven to the earth , and in¬deed heie is a clear-shming fight fallen this day,the it. atest Christian that ever 1 conversedwith.”38. After this, two day before Argyle wasSIbroken <$• taken, he was near Wigton in flal-loway ; a considerable number of men were ga¬thered together in arms, to go to his assistance;they pressed him to preach, but he positivelyrefused, saying he would only pray with them;where he continued long, and spent some partof that time in praying for Ireland, pleading thatthe Lord would spare a remnant, and not makea full end in the day of his anger ; and wouldput it in the hearts of his own to flee over tothis bloody land, where they would find safetyfor a time. After prayer they got some meat;and he gave every one ot his old parishioners,who were there, a piece out of his own hand,calling them his bairns. Then he advised all togo no farther; “ 4ut (said he) for you that aremy bairns, f discharge you to go ' our loot-length,for before you can travel that length he will beb'^kt : and though it were not so, God willhonor neither him nor Monmouth to be instru¬ments of a good turn to his church, they havedipt their hands so far in the persecution” Andthat ame day that Argyle wis taken Mr GeorgeBarclay wus preaching and persuading men inthat country to go to Argyle’s assistance : Aftersermon, he said to Mr George ‘ Now Argyleis in the enemy’s hand, anti gone ,,, though hewas many miles distant. had this accountfrom some of these his bairns who were present,and the last from Mr Barclay's self39 After this he was to preach at night, atPengaroch in Garrick : tin mistress of the housewas too open-minded to a woman, who wentand told the enemy & came back to the house,that she might not be su.-pected. Mr Peden be¬ing in the fields came in haste to the. door, andcalled the mistress and said ‘ Ye have playeda bonny sport to yourself, by being so loose-tongued ; the enemy is informed that I have to38drop a word this night in this house, and theperson who had done it, is in the house justnow, and you will repent it, for to-morrow theenemy will be here. Farewell. I will stay nolonger in this place.*' To-morrow morningboth foot and horse were about the house.41. In the same year 1585 preaching in thenight time in a barn at Car rick, upon that textPsal. Ixviii. 1. Let God arise ! and let his enemiesbe scattered ! Let them that hate him jlee before him!As some is dnven, so drive thou them J So insist¬ing how the enemies and haters of trod & gooness were tossed and driven as smoke of ch If,by the wind of God’s vengeance, while on earth,and that the wind would blow them all to hellin the end : stooping down, their being chaff a-mong his feet, he took a handiul of it and sa d;“ The Duke of York and now King of Britain,a known enemy of God and g odness, it was bythe vengeance of God that ever he got thatname; but as ye set me throw away that chaff',so the wind of that vengeance shah bl w anddrive him off that throne; aud he, nor any ofthat name shall ever come on it again.’*42. AbouLthis time preaching in Carrick, inthe Parish of Girvan, in the day time in theHelds, David Mason, then a prolessor, came inhaste, trampling upon the wino to be near Him,Mr. Feden said, * There comes the Devil's rat*tlmg-bag, we do not want him here.” Afterthis, the S'iid David became officer in that boundsand an informer, running through rattling hisbag and summoning th people to their unhap¬py courts, for their non-conf.-imhy ; for that heauit his g. t the name of a Hit devil’s rattle-bag to this d y. 8ince ihe Hevolution hecomplained to his minister,, that he and his gotthat name the mn htcr said, Ye will de¬ceive it, and he was an hones! man that gave it39you, you and yours must enjoy it, there is nohelp for it.’’49. A little before his death, he was in Au-chincloich where he was born, in the house ofJohn Richman. there being two beds in theroom, one for him, and one for Andrew who dwelt in and about the New-Milns , whenAndrew was going to his bed he heard him ve¬ry importunate with the Lord, to have pity up¬on the West of Scotland, and spare a r«.mi;ant,and not make a full end in the day of his anger ;And when he was off his knees, he walked upand down the chamber, crying out, “ Oh ■ theMonzies, the French Monzies! See how theyrun! How long will they run ? Lord cut theirhoughs and stay their running.” Thus he con*<tinned all night, sometimes on his knees, andsometimes walking*——In the morning they en¬quired wha. he meant by the Monzies ? He said,U sirs ! ye will have a dreadlul day by theFrench Monzies, and a set of wicked men inthese lands, who will take part with them ! thewest >f Scotland will pay dear for it They willrun thicker in the water of Ayr and Clyde, thanever the Highland-men did.’’ 1 lay in thatchamber about thr e years ago, as.d the saidJoan Rickman and his wife told me that thesewere ms words At other times to the samepurpose sayi g. ‘ O! the Monzies, the Mon*zks, will be through the breadth and the lengthof the south and the west of Scotland! Oh! Ithink I see them at our - fire sides, slaying manwoman and child The remnant will get abreathing, but they will be driven to the wild¬er -ess again, and their sharpest hours will belast.The late worthy Mr Richard Cameron spoketo the same purpose, whn. preaching at theGrass-water-side, soutn from Cumnock, July*4-028th 1680, eighteen days before his death, viz.“ Tnere are three or four things that I have totell you this day. which I must not omit, becauseI will be but at breakefast some hour or another,to the enemy and *nv work and time will he i:-nished 1st As for King Charles, who is nowupon the throne, after his death there shall notanother King of the name of Stuart be a crown¬ed king in Scotland. 2dly There shall not bean old Covenanter’s head above the ground inScotland, (that swore these covenants with up¬lifted hands) ere ye get the R- formation set upSdly. A man shall ride a summer’s day’s journeywithin the shire of Ayr & shall not see a housereek, nor hear a cock crow ere ye get reforma-tion : and several other shires in Scotland shalbe as ill. 4thly. The rod that the Lord willmake instrument of, shall be the French, andthe French king, together with a party in thisland joining with them : But ye tlat stand tothe lestimoney in that day, be not discouraged atthe fewness of your number, when Christ comesto set up his work in Scotland he will not wantmen anew to work for him; yea he will chap u-pon the greatest man in all Scotland, and he willbe the grea test malignant in it, and he will say.Sir. let alone this Qabel-builJing, for I have a-nother piece of work to put into your hand; &he w'i>! ga' him work, whether he will or not.It may be he wiil convert the man, and givehim his soul for a pray And there are manyof you thai are m hearers this day, that shalllive to see these things accomplished : And afterthese desolations aie over ye shall see the noble¬men and gentlemen’s houses so ruined, that thenettles shad be growing out of their bed-cham¬bers, or ye die ; and their memoiy and posterityshall perisli from the earth.”The following are some notes of Mr.41Peilen’s last Sermon in the Colm-wood at theWater of Ayr, a little before his d atb. ‘ TvTyMaster is the rider, and I am the hors —I ''everlove to ride hut when I tind the spurs : L knownot what I hive to do amongst you this night ;I wish it may he for your good, tor it will bethe la t —H is long sinee it was our desire toGod, to have you taken of our hand; and nowhe is granted us our desire There are touror five things 1 have to tel) you this night,First A bloody sword, a bloody sword for theeO Scotland, that shall tear the hearts of many.Secondly, Many miles shail you travel, and shallsee nothing but desolatmns and tuinous wastesin thee .Scotland. Thirdly Phc fertilest placesin Scotland shall be as waste and desolate as themountains. Fortbly, The women with childshall be ript up and dashed to pieces. FifthlyMany a conventicle has God had in thee OScotland! but ere long, God will have a con¬venticle that will make Scotland to tremble—Many a preaching has God wared on thee, butere long, God’s judgements shall be as frequenta» these precious meetings were, wherein he setforth his faithful servants to ^ive warning o! thehazard of thy apostacy from God in breaking,burning, and bun ing his covenant; persecuting,slighiing and cont. m .ing the gospel ; sheddingthe precious btocti of his saints and seivants.^—Goei sent forth a eVelwoou a King, a Cameronand a Cargil, and others to preach ro thee; butere long God will preach to thee by fire, and abloody word1 G d will let none of these men’stVorris fail to the ground that he sent forth witha commission to preach these things in his name :■ He will not let one sentence fall to the ground,but they shall iiave a sad accomplishment, to thesad xperience of many.” In his prayer afiorsermon, he said, “Lord thou hast Ween both42good and kind to auld Sandy, through a longtract of time, nd gave him many years in thyservice, which has been but so many months:but now he is tired of the world, and hath doneall the good in it that he will do; let him winaway with the honesty he has, for he will gath*er no more.45. When the day of his death drew near, &not being able to travel, he came to his broth¬er’s hou?e in tie parish of Scorn, where he wasbom : he caused dig a cave with a sauchenbushcovering die mouth of it, and the enemies came& search* d the house narrowly man> times. Inthe time that he was in the cave he said 'tosome friends, 1 Hiat God shall make Scotlanda desolation 2 Th-re shall be a remnant inthe land, whom God shall spare and hide.3 They shall lie in holes and caves of the earth,and be supplied with meat and drink : and whenthey come out of their holes, they shall notbe able to walk for stumbling on the deadcorpse 4 \ stone cut out of the mountain,should come down, and God shall be avengedon the great ones of the earth and the inhabit¬ants of the land, for thr.ir wickedness • and thenthe church should come forthwith a bonn> bairntime of young ones at her back Hi vwshedthat the Lord’s people might he hid in theircaves, as if they were not ir the world for noth¬ing would do it, until God appeared with tiisjudgements, and they that wan t .iough the bit¬ter and shaip snort storm rby ibv sword of theFrenches, and a set ol unhappy men taking partwith them, then there would be a spring-tide dayof the gospel : given them tor a sign. If he werebur, once buried, they might be in doubts ; butif ue were ottner buried tnan ocne, tney mightbe persuaocd that all he said would come to pass :And earnestly vesired them to take his corps to. . 45Aiitlsmoss. aad bury them beside Ilichy (mean¬ing Mr Cameron' that he might get rest in nisgrave, for he had gotten btl'e through his life ;but he said he knevv they would not do it. Hetold them, that bury him where tfiey would, hewould be lifted again, but the man that putfirst too his hand to lift his corpse, four thingsshould befal him : 1 He should get a great fallt om a horse CL He should tali in adultery.3 Into theft ; and for this he should leave theland. i>. Make a melancholy end abroad formurder. Which according!} did tome to pas-,there was one Mu do/oh, a mason t h s trace,but then in the military service, who first puthtnd to his corpse.A little before his death he said, “ Ye shallbe angry where l shall be buried at last, but Idischarge you all to lift my corpse again.’’ Atlast one morning early, he came to the door, &left his cave ; his brother's wife said. Whereare you going ? the enemy will be here. Hesaid, I know that. Alas, Sir. said she, whatwill btcime of you? Y' u must go back to thecave again. He said, ‘ I have done with that,lor it is discovered : ut there is nu matter, lorwithin forty-eight hours 1 wilt be beyond thereach of ail the devil’s temptations and his in¬struments in he 1 or on the earth ; and theyshall trouble me no more.” About three hoursafter he entered the house, the enemy came, &found him not in the cave; then they searchedthe barn narrowly, casting the unthreshen corn,and searched the house stabbing the beds, butentered not into the place where he lay.Within forty-eight hours he died Tr.ny. 28thT68b, being p:.s -Ix.y yt.ars ; anu was buried inthe laird of MHeci’s aisle The enemies gotnotice of his oeM? aim burial, and sent a troopof uraguOEs, and lifted his corpse, and carried44-him to Cumnock-gallows-foot, and buried himthere (aftei b ing forty days in the gravef be¬side others. His friends thereafter laid a grave¬stone above him with this inscription :HERE LIESMr. ALEXANDER. FED ENyA faithful Minister of the Gospel at Glenluce,Who departed this Life, January 28th. 1686.And was raised, a/ter six weelci, out of hisGRAVE,And buried here out of contempt.After this, that troop of dragoons came toquarter in the parish hf Cambusnethen : Twoof them were quartered in the house of JamesGray, my acquaintance : they being frighted intheir sleep started up, and clapped their h nds,crving Peden Peden. These two dragoons af¬firmed, that out o! their curiosity they openedhis coffin, to see his corpse, and yet he had nosmell, though he hau been forty days dead.Ail the foregoing articles I was assured of,except the 20th which is said he spoke toMargaret Lumbernor within the bounds ofGarrick in 1684, and has been passing homhand to ham' in writing, I sent a friend iwentymiles to her for the certainty of it: and althoughshe was ray old acquaintance, she delayed giv¬ing it. But i am informed, tha' some otherfriends enquired at the said argaret, who Iowned tin : 20;h. passage was all one, for sub¬stance, with w'hat Mr. Peden said to her.45There are other two passages I have oft heard,and doubt nothing of the truth of them, tho’the time and places be not mentioned, viz.One day preaching in the fields in his prayerhe prayed earnestly for the preservation of thepeople: and again and agpin he prayed for thatman that was to lose his life The enemiescame upon them the same day, and fired uponthe people, and there were none hurt save oneman and he was shot dead—Another time hewas preaching, and giving a very large offer ofChrist in gospel-terms, an old woman sittingbefore him, he laid his hands on each side ot herhead, and rocked her from side to side, and said,“ Thou witch-wife, thou witch-wife, thouwitch-wife, I offer Christ to thee ! Quit the de¬vil’s service, thou hast a bad master ; thou wiltnever make thy plack a babte of him ; but ifthou wilt break off and renounce the devil’s ser¬vice, * promise thee, in my Masters name, thathe will give thee salvation ” After this., therewas a considerable change in her practice andwhen she was a-dying, she confessed that shewas either engaged in the devil’s service ; or wasengaging ; and expresed her thankfulness, thatshe had the happiness to hear Mr Peden at thattime.PART II.Containing Thirty new Aditional Passages.f'T the year 1666 when the Lord’s persecu-ted and oppresed people were gathered to-146gether for tm'ir own defence who were brokenat Pentlaml-bills, be with Mr Welch and thelaird ot Glort ver, in t:ie parish of Bnlentn a,wire riding together in the same parish, apdmet upon the way a small party of the enemy'shorse, and no eviting of them ; the Laird faint d,fearing they would ail be taken. Mr Pedcnseeing this, said, “ Keep up your courage andconfidence for God hath laid an arrest uponthese men, that they shall not harm us.” Whenthey met, they were courteous, and asked theway : Mr Peden went off the way, and shewedthe tord of the water of Tit. When he retur¬ned, the laird said, ‘ Why did y u go withthem ; You might have sent the lad ’’ He said,“ Ko, no, it v, as more Sate for me ; for theymight have asked questions at the lad, and hemight have faintcu and discovered us For my¬self, I know they would be like the Egyptiandogs, they would not owe a tongue againstme ; for my hour of falling into their hands, andthe day of trial, is not come that i-abiding me.’'There is an old Christian gentlewoman in Enin-borgh, a daughter of the said lairds, wdio toldir e of late, that she had several times hearu herfather give an account of this. She also toldme, that since Bothwel-brioge fight, she heardhim preach m the fields m the foresaid parish ;and a woman silting before the tent, looking upto him, he said, “ iiow have you the confidenceto look up ? look down to he!! where you aregoing ; the devil has a fast grip of you, & willnot lose it.*' That woman lived and dis-u underthe mala jarae of a witch, and presumptions ofthe same.2 About the year 1670 he was in Armagh,in Ireland, one John Goodale with his wife twozealous serious Christians, living in Armagh,who had gone from Scotland, who was a wheel47 .! wright to his employment; his zeal was such a! gainst the superstitious worship, and keeping somany holidays that when the people were goingand coming by the shpp door, he wrought mosthard ; tor which he was excommunicate : when( he told Mr. Peden, he said, “ Rejoice John,; that you are cast out of the devil's count-book.”After this he w*s preaching privately in John’sI house; in his preface he said. ‘ Our Lord hasbeen taking great pains on you in Ireland, to getyou to learn your lesson per quire ; and few ofyou have been brought to say your lesson oftthe book; He was gotton a goodly company inScotland, that he is learning to say their lesson®ffthe book; and they are brave scholars : Butere long he will try some oi you with it also :He will say Come out, thou man in Armagh,a.id thou man in Benburb, and say your lessonoff the book.” The Bishop of Armagh (where¬of the great Mr Usher was formerly Bishop)and his underling, were so enraged against thesaid John that he rode two ty miles to Dublin,to get an order of caption from the Lord-lieu¬tenant for apprehending the said John, and alsoGeorge Fieeming in Benburb, which he easilyobtained; and came quickly back, and was insuch haste to deliver his order, that upon horse¬back he called for the chief magistrate : Whendelivering his commission his horse cast up hishead, and gave him such a stroke on the breast,thathediedthedth or 5th day thereafter. GeorgeFleeming went out of the way; he was father tothe late Mrs Fleeming, that Christian, motherlywoman, who kept a school in the Castle-hill &died there ihe foresaid John was i me¬diately put in prison : His wife and other friendscame to~ visit him, his wife said, * Now, mydear, learn to say your Lsson oft the book.” Heanswerfcd, “ I am much obliged to you tor your4-*iindne% that minds me of that hoie.’ Theja' lor at night, said, “ J dm, you are called anhonest man if you will promise to return to¬morrow, 1 will let you home to your own bed.”John said “ That I will not do.'’ The keepersaid, “Will you run for it?’’ He said, ' Mo,no; I have done no ill thing that needs makeme either afraid or shamed. “ Well, said thejailor, go home to your bed, and l will send aservant for you to-morrow’s morning.” Whenhe went home, it was his ordinary m his family-worship to sing these lines in the lO^th Psalm.Few he hit days; and in his roomHis charge another take $)'c.When ended, he said to his wife, “ I neverfound such a gale upon my spirit as in the sing¬ing to these lines.” She said it was so with heralso. “ Well said he, let us commit our case &cause to the Lord, and wait on him; and weshall know the meaning of this afterwar s *’ The unhappy man fell immediately ill and said,that all the mischief had come upon him forwhat he had done against John Goo jale; andcaused write and signed a dischare, aud sentit to the said John, that he might not be troub¬led for the expence he had been at, in the get¬ting of that captain. He died under great hor¬ror of conscience. Notwithstanding he war de¬tained three years prisoner working at his eo-ployment in the Talbooth, in the day tim andwent home to his bed at night The said Johnwent home, and died since the Revolution Tiswife, when dying at Leith gave this relation.3 When Mr P» den wasprisones in Edinburgh,under sentence of bai ishment, J >nies Millar,merchant in Kirkcaldy, was under tin same sen¬tence and his wile came to visit him sir Ped-en said to her, “ It is no wonder you Ik troub¬led with your husband's going to the plantations ;49but if any of us go there at this time, the Lordnevpr spoke by me ’’4 in their voyage to London, they had theopportunity to command the ship, and maketheir escape, but would not adventure upon it,without his advice. He said, *' Let alone, forthe Lord will set us all at liberty in a way morefor his own glory and our safety.”5 About this time, in their voyage on theSabbath, the prisoners pressed him to preach,the wind blowing very hard : In that sermon hesaid. Up your hearts lads and be not dis¬couraged, for this man thought he had gotten aprize, when he got the gift of us from the^wick-ed, bloody council; but ia a few days he shallbe as glad to be quit of us as ever he was to getus.’’ - - A little time ago, I had a long scroll ofmany accounts about Mr Peden, from an oldChristian English gentleman, who was much inhis company ; and gave me many notes of hissermons, and asserts the truth of many things Ihave said about him that he was witness to,and some other person of great integrity, Heassured me the only instrument the Lord rais¬ed up for the relief of Mr Peden and these sixprisoner with him, was my Lord Shrewsbury,who was always friendly to Presbyterians : Hewent to King Charles I, and upon his kneesbegged the releise of these prisoners but couldnot prevail There he went t > the master of theship and told him that if he did not set theseprisoners at libetty, he should never sail in Eng¬lish seas. At length he came down to Graves¬end, and set them at liberty. After that, theScots and English shewed more than ordinarykindness to them : which should be kent in re-memberance with thanksgiving to the Lord, forfavoring our outcasts.Dso6 After they were set at liberty, he stayed aLondon and through England until June 1679Upon the 21st of June, he was come to thesouth of Scotland, being Saturday, the day be¬fore the Lord’s people fell and fled before the e-nemy at Bothwelbridge : In his exercise in a fami¬ly, he said, “ I will tell you. sirs, our deliverancewill never come by the sw trd Many thought,when the bishops were first set up, that theywould not continue seven years: but I was ne¬ver of that mind: it is now near three sevens,but they will not see the fourth seven but Ifear they will come near to it.’* Which sadlycame to pass.7 He went that night to the fields, and eamein on Sabbath morning about sun-rising weep¬ing and wringing his hands : one John Sirnpsona godly man, enquired wbat the matter was thatmade him weep.; He said, “ 1 < ave been wrest¬ling all night with God, for oar friends that arein the west, but cannot prevail ” I gave an ac¬count in the fermer passages, about the middleof that day many people were waiting for sermonwhen some told him, he said *’ Let the peoplego to their prayers, for I can preach none; ourfriends are all fallen and fled before the enemy,and they are bagging and basing them down,and their blood is running like water. At nighthe was called to supper, having tasted nothingthat day, several friends being present : In seek¬ing a blessing, he broke out into a rapture ofweeping and lamentations for the sad stroke u-pon the bodies of the Lord's people; but muchmore for the dead-stroke the most part ef themhad got upon then spirits that few of the min¬isters and professors of Scotland, shov.ld ever recover; which sadly held true, as I formerlymentioned in the scrapes of writings of that blastof east withering wind. He also insisted in51prayer for the wounded, who were wallowingto death in their blood : and for the many pris¬oners: When ended, he went off and all otherswithout t sting of the r supper though it wasupon tlu table At this time he was forty orfifty miles distant from Cothwel-bridge.8 \bout this tirre he was preaching in thesoush, on that text. But they are not grieved forthe afflictions of Joseph He had many edifyingremarks upon the foregoing verses especially u-pon the first line, Woe unto them that are at easein Zion He insisted upon the true nature ofgriving ; and lamented that there was so littlegrieving for the present great afflictions of theChurch of -'cotland. One woman standing a-mongst the people, pointing to her, he said,“ Some of you will grieve and greet more forthe drowning of a bit oftt calf or stirk, than e-ver ye did for all the tyranny and defections ofScotland.’’ That woman had a calf drowned afew days before, for which she made a greatnoise. She challenged his landlady for tellingthejmihister that she grate for her calf: She re¬plied, l could not tell him that which I knewnot, and as little did he. At the same time, hesaw some of his people turning weary ; he said,“ Ye are not taking notice; some of you arethinking on one thing and some on another.”Th.* Ladi Hundelsop sitting near him but knewher not, be turned to her. and said “ And youare thinking on greeting Jock at the fire-side **This was a son of hers called John, that she hadleft very week of a decay at the fire-side upon acruch. She told several afterwards that a drowof anxiety overwhelmed her about him, at thatvery time he spoke to her.9 In the year 1682 lie went to Ireland: PeterAird, who lived in the parish ot Galstoun, whowas taken with me, and imprisoned together,52told me, that he followed him some good pieceof the way to detain him until he got his childbaptised: He said, ‘ I resolve to come backshortly, and 1 hope the Lord will preserve yourchild.’' Which accordingly he did After bap¬tism he said to Peter, “ If the man of the parish(Mr James Vetch one of the them actually in¬dulged ) had baptised your child, you wouldhave got your horned beasts keeped and nowyou will lose them ” Which came to pass in afew days The enemy came and took away hiscattle every hoof, but he fled with his horses.10 In the same year 1682, he married JohnKirkland and Janet Lindsay, my acquaintance,wdio told me, that w hen they were before him hesighed deeply, and said, “ First one husband,killed and then another, and must have a third,if it must be so, let her say. Good is the tuill afthe Lord. Which came to pass : Her husband,Thomas Weir in Cumberhead, was deadlywounded at Drumclog, by Claverhouse, on the1st ef June 1679, being the Sabbath, and diedon tne 5th day thereafter : And Ensign JohnKirkland was killed in Flanders. Kersland,Fullerton, and he, were all buried in on grave.Since then, Wilbiam Spence, Baillie in Coulter,who was also my intimate acquaintance, marri¬ed her. They are both now in their graves.11 In the year 1681, he was in Ireland, inthe house of John Slowan, in the parish ot Co-nert, in the county of Antrim ; about ten o’clockat uight, sitting at the fire-side discoursing withsome peope, started to his feet, and said, “ Fleeauld Sandy and hide yourself, for Colonel is coming to this jhouse to apprehend you; andI advise you all to do the like, for they will behere within an hour.” Which came to passAnd when they had made a very narrow seaichwithin and without thejipuse. and went round53the thorn bush under which he was lying pray¬ing, they went off without their prpy. He camein and said, “ And has this gentleman (dcsign-bim by his name) given auld Sandy and t:»eirpoor things such a fright ? For this night’s workGood shall give him such a blow, with a fewdays that all the physicians on earth shall not beable to cure it.” Which came to pass; for iedied in great misery, vermin flowing from a 1parts of his body, with such anoisome stink,that few could enter the room.12 About the same time, he was in the sameparish and county : one Mr. David Cunningham,minister there, in the meeting house, on a Sab¬bath day, broke out in very great reflections onMr Peden, and them who hard him ; one Mr.Vernor one of Mr Cunningham’s elders, wasvety much offended thereat, and told Mr Pedenon Monday, what Mr Cunningham had said ;Mr Peden walking in his garden, took a turn a-bout and came back and charged him to go andtell Mr Cunningham from him, that before Sat¬urday's night he shosld be as free of a meeting¬house as he was; which came to pass. He wascharged that same week, not enter his meet¬ing hou?e on pain of death. This account oneJohn M‘George, in the parish of Orr in Gallo¬way gives, who was there present13 About this time, he was in the house ofthe foresaid John Slowan, who was a great friendto or r Scots sufferers, who fled from the perse¬cution here, as i have hard John Muirhead &others give account; His son John Siowan, gaveme this, and several other accounts The fore-said Mr Cunningham carried over many of thereviews of the history of the indulgence, tospread in Ireland, in defence of the indulgencehere : When Mr IT den heard of them, hesaid to some friends, “ Be not discouragrdi'or these books will >lo no hurt in this country :for I saw the sale of them spilt this last night.*’An^. so it came to pass, for the most ot themwas returned to Scotland.I't He was preaching one Sabbath night inthe said John Slowan’s house a great, numberboth within and without hearing him; wherehe insisted on the great need and usefulness ofseeking & obtaining spiritual riches . he broughtin an example that if any man was going toBelfast or Bellimony, he would be looking hispockets for what he had to bear his charges: Aman standing without, said quietly, “ Lord helpme, for 1 have nothing to bear mine.’’ Mr Pe-den said immediately, pointing to the door.Poor man do not fear, for I have it out ofheaven, as with a audible voice thy chargesshall be borne, & that injja remarkable manner.”That man has been mercifully and remarkablysupported ever since, and that in the way of hisduty.15 In the same place, in a Sabbath morning’sfamily-worship, he sung the cxlth Psalm, versellth He said, * Sirs, I charge you to singthis n3alm in faith ; for wc will have a toomthrone belyve : some one haih given him a dead¬ly blow, though poor Monmouth hath no bandin it. A fowler when he shoots a bird it mayrise and flee, but not far, for there is some ofthe shot in it *’ Within ten day after the newsof Charts lid’s death was confirmed.16 About the same time he said to JamesSlowan ‘ We must go to another house thisnight, for 1 am mistaken if there be not a verynarrow toaich made this night *’ They went toWilliam Craig’s, and James went with them tothe bouse, and returned to his own bed- ^ cnhe awaked the house was full of people, conota-55bles and others making search for prisoners whohad broke pri on but tbunu none17 Mrs Maxwel, or Mary Elphingstone, yetalive, whom l mentioned in the former passages,whose hearts thoughts Mr Peden told, whenher child was baptised , that child is own, a mar¬ried woman, and has children of her now, whomI spoue with about about three months ago. Shecane from Kilmarnock to public occasious whichwas about fifty miles distance Mrs Maxweltold me since, when last in Glasgow, that whenthe child was in her father’s arms, Mr Pedensaid, “ That child’s coming here at this time,is a testimony against the unfaithfulness of theministers of Ireland reland thinks that Caro¬lina in America will be a refuge for them: butas the Lord lives, it shall be no shelter to them.And these of them, designing to go there at thistime, many of them shall lose their lives. & therest of them shall come home in gre it distress.”And at that time there were two ships settingout from Ireland to Carolina ; one of them wascast away near Carolina, and 140 people in her,whereof 70 perished Mr James Brown one ofthe ministers of Glasgow, since the Revolution,was one of the 70 who were preserved I'heother ship was driven back to Ireland shatteredand disabled, and the people greatly distressed.18 One time travelling himself alene in ‘re-lanti. the night came on, and a dark mist whichObliged him to go into a home belonging to aQuaker: Mr Peden said, “ I must beg the fav¬or of the loof of your house all night.” TheQuaker said, fhou art a stranger, thou artwelcome, and shall be kindly entertained : but Icannot wait upon tuee, for I am going to themeeting’’ Mr Peden said, “I will go alongwith you.’’ The Quaker said, “ Thou may, ifthou please; but thou must not trouble us.’’56He said, “ I will be civil.’' When they cameto the meeting, as their ordinary is, they sat forsome time silent, some with their faces to thewall, and others covered. There being a voidin the loft above them, there came down the ap¬pearance of a raven, and sat upen one man’shead, who started up immediately, and spokewith such vehemence that the froth came fromhis mouth : It went to a second, and he did thesame: and to a third, and he did as the formertwo. Mr Peden sitting near to his landl ;rd said:*, Do ye see that ? You will not deny it after¬wards ?” When they dismissed, going home,Mr Peden said to his landlord, ‘ I alwaysthought there was devilry among you, but nev¬er thought that he did appear visibly, till nowthat 1 have seen it. O 1 for the Lord’s sake quitthis way ! and tlee to the Lord Jesus, in whomthere is redemption, through his blood, even tothe forgiveness of all ycur inquities." Thepoor man fell a-weeping, and said, “ I perceivethat God hath sent you to my house, and put itin your heart to go along with me, and permit¬ted the devil to appear visibly among us thisnight; I never saw the 1’ke before. Let mehave the help of your prayers, for I resolve thro’the Lord’s grace, to follow this waj no longer.’’After this, he became a singular Christian, andwhen he was djing, blessed the Lord that inmercy sent the man of God to his house.19 There is an old Christian woman living atthe Water of Leith, that m tire beginning ofIt85 went to Ireland, to the foresaid parish ofConert, to rn aunt’s house, who lieved there :Being big with child, she was shortly thereaftersafely delivered and Mr Peden baptised herchild After she recovered, she went on aSabbath morning to the foresatd John Slowai’shouse vwhere Mr Peden was j expecting sermon,:being snow, she and others sat down in the kit¬chen, at the fire-sipe ; then Mr Peden came in¬to the kitchen, and called for water to wash hishands : and seeing them he said, “ For what doyou come here without ye had been advertised ?For I have nothing prepared for you. Theysaid. “ 0 Sir you must not send us away emp¬ty, for we are in a starving condition ” Hesaid, “ I cannot promise you : but if I can getany thing, ye shall not want it.” \ li’tle whiletherafter, he called, and said, Let not thesepeople away for I will come to them shortly.”Which he did and preached upon that teic*',The dai.) being far spent they constrained him totarry all night Where he broke out in strangeraptures expressing his fears of the Lord's depar¬ture from these lane’s He said, * England forsuperstition and profanity, Ireland for securietyand formality, great shall thy ’stroke b* ! For ina few years ye may travel forty miles in Ireland,and not get a light to your pipe !*" Which cameto pass four years thereafter, in the last rebelli¬on. He also said, “O Scotland! may, long,and great shall thy judgements be of all kind’s,especially on the west and south for loathing &contempt of the Gospel, covenant.breaking, bur¬ning and burying, and shedding of innocent;precious, dear, blood ! O ! all ye that can pray,tty if ye can teagle him, O! see if ye can tea-gle him, teagle him especially in Scotlaud, forwe fear he will depart from it.” Whan ended,he said, “ Take ye that among you, and makea good use of r ; for I have gotten it new mdfresh out ef heaven, having nothing of it thismornr-g ” The foresaid J dm Muirhead, andthe sa d old woman, and others told me, theywere .never witness to such i day, for so manytears, both from preachers and hearers.20 After this, this old woman longed t<5 be5&home to Scotland, Iier husband (whose name !!was Pat^n) being in danger and hearing of sucha killing in Scotland, being 1685 one of thebloody years, upon Scaffolds and in the fields : j:(and indeed the din was no greater than thedeed ; A bark being to go off with passangers,and she resolving to go «long with it, went totake her leave of Mr Peden.. and found him ina wood with John Muirhead, and others of ourScots sufferers. She told him her design, andhe mused at little, and then said, “Go not a-way till I speak with you.’’ He took a turnthrough the wood, and when he came bac«, hesaid, “Janet, go bacis to your aunt's foi youwill not see Scotland these five months therewill strange things happen in Scotland ere yougo to it, you will see a ramirkable pr vid neein your being stopt.” The bark went off, andwas cast away, and 17 passangers* corpse werecast ashore, at the p.act win re they took s op¬ing : John Muireht at gave me this account21 '-fter he t me to ceiia. d, in the begin-r.ing of March 1685 flying fr in the enemy onhorseback, and they pursuing, he was forced toride a water, where he was in g eat danger ofbeing drowned : fit last he got out, and cried,“ Lads ft.ltow not me for 1 assure you, ye wantmy boat^ ano will so c rtainiy drown Considerwher your landing will be! ye are fighting forhell, and running post to it.’’ Which aif.ightedthem to enter the water,22 At another time, being hard persu:d hewas forced to take a dangerous bog and mossbefore him : One of the dragoons more f. rewardthan the rest, run himself into the bog, and heror his horse were ■ ever seen more23 Lying sica in a village near Cumnock, hetold his landlord who was afraid to keep him inhis house, the soldiers being to travel through59that town the next day, Ye need not fear tolet me stay in your house, for some, of these sol¬diers shall keep sentry at this door but shall notcome in.” Which came to pass : His landlordbeing digging stones at the end of the village,told the officers that he was afraid the soldierswould plunder his cottage. They said “ Poorman, vou deserve encouragement for ycur virtue,be not afraid for your house, we will order twosoldiers to stand at your door, that nobody enterto wrong you/’ Which thei did.24- He lying sick about the sawm time, hislandlord was afraid to keep him in his house.The enemy being in search of hiding people,| hewas obliged to make a bed for him among thestanding corn ; at which time there was a greatrising of the water, but not o e foot to be ob¬serve t withir ten feet of his bed.25 Vbout his time be eame to Garfield, inthe parish *»v Mauchliu. to the house of MatthewHog a smith. Ho went to Ms barn, but thoughth'n< elf not safe, foot and horse of tiie enemybeing searching for wanderers as they were thenc lied. He desmed the favor of his loft, whichMatthew refused : He saici, “ A ell, well, poormar you will not let me have the shelter ofy< ur r ot hut that hru-'c shall be your judg-m n and •uio.’’ -Some time afte r, the gravel ofthat ht use fell and killed both M o and his son.Their boddies were severely crushed.2(5 About ih< same time he came to Andrew'Nermann’s i ouse, in the parish of Allaway,shire of Avr, being to preach at night in hisbarn After he cam' in, he halted a little lean¬ing on the back ot a cha.h with hi* face cover¬ed.^ When he lifted up. his dean, he ssij,“ rhey are in this house that i have not onewont of salvation ui »ol” He halted a littleagain, saying, “ This is strange, that the devi‘60wlfl not go out, that we may begin our work 1”—-Then there was a woman went out, ill-look¬ed upon for a witch. John Muirhead (former¬ly mentioned 1 told me, that when he came fromIreland to Galloway, he was at family-worship,and giving some notes upon the scripture read,there wa- a very ill-looking man came in, andsat down within the door. He haltad and said,“ There is some unhappy body just now cameinto this house I charge him to go out.and notstop my mouth. The man went oft and heinsisted , but Mr Pedcn saw him neither comein, nor go out,27 In that bloody year 1685, he came to ahouse in the shire of Ayr Captain John Matthi-son and other 12 of our wanderers bt mg in thehouse, he said, “ Lads, ye must go t-, the fieldsand seek your beds, for the enemy wi.i be herethis night, ano I'll go my caved’ They said,Some of us will stay with you, for you willweary alone —-No said he, l will not weary.For a sign that the enemy will be here this night,a godly eminent Christian man, whom 1 oftenhave heard of. but never saw, will come and bewith me this night.” Ail which came to pass:for the men fled, and he entered the cave, andfell asleep; and a little thereafter, the said mancoming to the family asked for tMr Peden, anddesired access to the cave to ly with him. Whenin bed he found Mr Peden slumbering, but ina little he awoke, and naming the man, askedh’m how he did ? The soldiers came that night,but missed their prey. The next morning whenthese said rnt n returned, he said, “ Lads it wasw ell you came to this house,yesternight, otherwiseye had been among their bloody hands thisday28. In'the said year IGbS, he came to Wel-wood, to Captain John Cambell’s he having,61escaped out of Canonga^e-Tolbooth intheniontfiof August IGSf. Being in danger every day heresolved to go to America and took farewell ofhis friends and went aboard of a ship. Mr.Peden said to his mother, “ Mistress, what isbecome of John?” She said, ‘He is gone toAmerica.’’ He said, “No no! he is not gone;send for him, for he will never see Ameiica”Accordingly it was so a storm arose where hewas in great danger, but was preserved, and isyet alive.29. Since the publishing of the former passagesof Mr Peden’s life and death, I received twolatters from •dr Alexander Gordon of Earlstoun,in the year 1725 and 1726, since gone to hisgrave ; shewing that he as not only full} satis¬fied but much refreshed, with the passages,requesting me on no accout to delay the pub¬lishing of all that I proposed; and that helonged to see them before he went off theetage: Knowing that my day is far spent, beinglong since I was his fellow-prisoner, and taughthim from my own experience, how to managethe great weight of irons that was upon his legs ;and wishing that all the Lord’s people, who haveany zeal for the sworn to and sealed testimony,and savoury rememberanceofthenames of Christ',slain witnesses for the same and ot the Lord'ssignal manifestations of his lakhfulness and ailssufficiency to them, in their life and death-would give me all encouragement in such a pieceof good and great geneiation-work, which maybe useful and edifying, when he and I were bothmouldering in the grave Por himself he v-dl-ingly would, and sometime a day could, bulnow, being 74' years of age, aad years in im¬prisonment and ofteuiimes in irons, and mat vother troubles through his life, his memory andjudgement were mu:h broken, and thcrefoie Lecould make me little help Only he remember¬ed, he was once sent from : he societies in Gal- !;loway fo Garrick, to call Mr Peden to preach :When he told him for what end he was come,Mr Peden went for some time alone; and whenhe came back, he said, 11 am rorry, Karlstoun,you are come so far ir vain for I cannot answeryour desire; I can £jet no Iiing to say to yourpeople : Nothing will convince this generationbut judgements, and a surprising lump of themupon the West of Scotian t.’’ Earlstoun said,*i; Sir, you was once legally authorised and or¬dained to preach the gospel, and the Lord’s peo¬ple’s call is sufficient : I think you are under atemptation of enthusiasm.” Mr Peden said,he sometimes feared that; but since he was dri¬ven from his p ople at Glenluce, his Master, inmercy and goodness gave him more encourage¬ment and gave one instance. That one time hewas called, and resolved, and prepareu to go, ashe thought: but when his horse was drawn, hewent into the barn once more, where he wasstript bare of all his thoughts, and a darkeningdampening cloud overwhelmed him. which slepthim : vnd he afterwards saw a remarkable pro¬vidence in it, and need be for it, And further*he said The last time he saw Mr Peden, it waswith Mr Donah1 Cargil where they continued along time comparing notes together ; seeingwith one eye, thinking wicti one mind & speak¬ing with one breath of all things, past present,and what was to befal this church and nation.Copy of a Letter from Mr. Alexander Pboex,* to the Prisoners in Dunnotar Castle.July, 1685.Dear Friends,I long to hear from you,how you spend your time; and how the graceof God grows in your hearts. 1 know ye, andothers of the Lord's people, by reason of the’pre-sent trial, have got up a tashion of complainingupon Christ* but 1 defy you to speak an illword of him. unless ye wrong him. Speak asyou can and spare not; only I request that yourexpressions of Christ be suitable to your experi¬ence of him. If ye think Christ's house be bareand ill-provided, and harder than ye looked for,assure yourselves Christ means only to diet you,and not to starve you : Our steward kens whento spend and when to spare Christ knows wellwhether heaping or straking agrees best withour narrow vessels, for both are alike to him:Sparing will not enrich him, nor will spendingImproverish him. He thinks it ill won that isholrien off his people. Grace and glory ‘comesout ol Curist’s lucky hand. Our vessels arebut feckless and contain little: His fulness ismost straitened when it wants a vent, it is ea¬sy for Christ to be holden busy in dividing thefulness of his father’s house to his poor friends:He delights not to keep mercy over night. Ev¬ery day brings new mercies to the people ofGod: He is the easiest merchant ever the peopleof God yoked with: If ye be pleased with thewares, what of his graces makes best for you,he and you will soon sort on the price, he wffcsell goods cheap, that ye may spier for his shopagain and he draws all the sale to himself. Icouncil you to go no farther than Christ. Andno.v when i>: come to your door, either to sinor suff :r, 1 council you to lay your account forsuffering ; for an out-gate coming from anotherairth, may be prejudical to your soul’s interest.And for 3 our encouragement remember hesends none a warfare on their own charges.And blest is the man that gives Christ ail hismoney. It will be best with you to block withhim, when you waait hand money. And theless you have, he has the more heart to tru-t toyou. And so it is best with you to keep'in withyour old acquaintance Chi ft New acquaint¬ance with strange lords in the ready way tomake a wound in grace’s side, which will notheal in haste; ttie sore may close-before the wounddry up lor grace is a tender place, and is veryeasily distempered with the backslidings of ourpresent time. And if the wheels of it be oncebroken with sin, all the money in the world willnot make it go about, until it be put in Christ’shand. J hope '■ have said more on this matterthan is needful'; for I have seen the marks oftenderness deeply drawn on your carriage. Thesafest way to shift the showers, is to hold out ofGod’s gate, and keep within his doors, until theviolance of the storm begin to ebb, which is notvet full tide. Christ deals tenderly with hisyoung plants and waters them oft, lest they goback. Be painful and lose net life lor the seek¬ing. Grace, mercy, and peace, be with you.