THEHISTORYO FJohn Cheap,THECHAPMAN.CONTAININGAn Account of the Merry Exploits donaby Him and his Fellow Traveller,Drowthy Tom, a flicked Shaver.IN THREE PARTIEntered according to Order*THEPREFACE.* *JOHN CHEAP, the Chapman, was a verycomical fhort thick fellow, with a broadface and a long nofe ; b th lame and lazy,and fomethirig leacherous among the lafles:He chofe rather to fit idle than work at anytime, as he was a hater ( f hard labour.—•No man nepded to offer him cheefe and breadafter Itn curl't he . uld not have it; f r hewould blufii at bread and milk, when hijugfy,ns a beggar, at a babee. He got the name ofJohn Cheap the Chapman, becaufe he foldtwenty needles for a penny, and twa lea'herlaces for a farthing. He fwore no oaths butone, which was. Let me never fin. lie ufedno imprecations but. Let me never cheat,nor be cheated, but rather cheat. He gavebad counlel to none but children, and thatwas, to burn the bane-cames, that theirmothers might buy another when he camethat way again. He never fought with anybut dogs, and the good wives daughters intheir daffing, and that’s not dangerous.The following. Relation is taken from his«wn mouth verbatim.( 3 )PARTI.I John Cheap, by clranCe, at Tome certaintime, doubtlei's againft my v/ill, was bornat the Hottom, near Habertenoy mill: Myfather was a Soots liighlandman, and mymother,a Yorkshire wench, but honeii, whichcaufes hie to be of a mongrel kind; I mademyfelf a chapman when very young, in greathopes of being rich when Idaecame old; butfortune was fickle, and fu was I, for I hadnot been a chapman above two days, untilI began'to confiJer the danger of deep ditches,midden-dubs, biting dogs and bogles in barns,bang'ier wives and v/iet facks : And whatI comCrt is it, fays I, to ly in a cow’s ouxter,the length of a cold winter-night ; to fit be-hirid backs, till the kail be a’ cnttied up,land then to lick oolley’s leavings.i. My firfi journey was through Old Kil¬patrick; all the day long I g t no meat normoney; and in the evening, when I beganto alk for lodging, every wife, to get me• away, gave me a cog-full of kail, or a pieceueafe bannock. Well, faid I to myfelf, If■his be the way, I fiiall begin in the morn-ng to alk for lodging, or any ti»ie when Iim hungry. Thus I continued going fromaoufe to houfe, until my belly was like toburft, and my pockets could h dd no more,I.    ( 4 )At laft I came to a farmer’s hmife, but think¬ing it not dark enough to prevail for lodging,fat down upon a ftone at the end of the houfe,till day-light would go away out of the well;and as I was going to get up to go into thehoufe, out comes the goodwife, as I fuppofedher to be, and fat duwn at the end of a ftone,2 being at the other, where fhe began to letoff her water with full force, which I borewith, very fnodeftly, till near an end, whenfhe made the wind follow witB fuch force,as made, as 1 thought, the very ftone I leanedupon to tremble, which made me burft outinto laughter ! Then up gets the wife, andruns for it; I followed hard after into thehoufe, and as 1 entered the door, I heardthe g< odman laying, Ay, ay, goodwtfe,what’s a’ the hurry, that you run fo ? Nomore p-iffed, until I addrefted myfelf to thego- dman for quarters; to which he anfwered,Indeed, lad, we hae rae beds but three; mywife and I, our fells twa, and the twa bitsa littlens, Willie and Jenny, lies in ane;the twa lads, our twa fervant-men, WillieBlack and Tam, lies inanither; and atildMaggs, my mither and the lals, Jean Tirram,lies the gither, and that fills them a’—O butfays I, goodman, there is feme of them fullerthan others, you may let roe ly with yourmother and the lafs ; I fhall ly heads andth aws wi’them, and keep on my breeks.A good keep me, quo the ikfs, frae a’ temp-( 5 ')Utions to fin, altho’ thou be but a calk'**heth I’ll rather ly wi' Bannock Garner.—Hute awa’, quo the auld wife, the poor ladmay ly on a battle o’ ftrae beyond the fire.No, no, cries the goodwife, he?s no be herethe night, or I’fe no be here. Dear, good-vrife, faid I, what ails you at me? If yo^iwill not let me lUy, you’ll not hinder me to.go where I pleafe ? Ay, ay, faid (he, gaewhere you like. Then I gat in beyond thefire, befide the goodman: Now, faid I, good-wife, I like to be here. A d—1 be herean’ ye be here the night, faid fhe^ Ho, ho,ftid I, but I’m here firft, and firfl coin’dfirit ferv’d, g >odwife ; but, an’ the ill thiefbe a friend of your’s, you’ll have room forhim too. Ye thief-like widdyfu’, faid llie,are ye evening me to be fib to the foul thief;it’s well keftd that I am come of good honeil;fouks: It may be fo, goodlyife, faid I, but yelook rathe’r the ether way, when ye wouldlodge the d—1 in your hou-fe, and put outa poor chapman to die in fuch a ftormy nightas this is. What do ye fay ! fays file, therewas na a bonnier night fince winter came innor this. O goodwife, what are you faying!do ye not mind when you and I was at theeaft end of. the houfe, fuch a noife of windand water was then. A wae worth the filth/body, faid file, is nqt that in every part?—What, faid the g#edi«an, a wat well therewas nae rain when I came in. The wife>then flmt me out, and bolted the doer behindme. Well, fa:d I, but I (hall be throughbetween thy mouth and- thy nofe before themorrow. It being now,' fo dark, and I aJ1 ranger, could fee no place to go v/ent-int/> the corn-yard; but f:< -ling no loofe draw,I fell a drawing one of their.flacks, fheaf byfiieaf, until I pulled out a threave or two,and got into, the hole myfelf, w'here I lay aswarm as a pye-y but the goodman, in themorning, perceiving the heapof corn fheaves,came running to carry them away, and flftpup the hole in the (lack wherein I lay withfome'of the theaves fo with the lleighlingfjf the draw, and him talking to the red ofthem, curding' the thieves who had done it,dwearing they had d le fix threaves of it,I then dripping out of the hole, Ho, ho, faid I,goodman, you’re net to bury me alive inyour dack He then began to chide me,vowing he would keep my pack I t thedamage I had done. Whereupon, I tookhis fervants witnedes he Had robbed me.When hearing me urge him do, he gave meruy pack again, and off I came to tne nexthoude, where I told the whole diory.2. My next exploit was near Carluke,between Hamiltown and Lanerk; where, ona cold ftornfy night, I came to a little townwith four or five houdes in it: I v/ent twicethrough it, but none of them would give me( 7 >tbe credit to (land all night anieog their horft-ror yet to ly in their cow’s oxter: At laft 1prevailed with a wife, .if her hufbaad waswilling to let me flay, fhe would, and fentme to the barn to aflchim, and I meeting him®t t’:e barn-door, cart^-ing in hrae fcr hishories, I told him, his wife had granted tolet me ftay, if he was not againll it: Towhich he anfwered. If I fhould ly in hismidden-dib, I fhould get no cjoarters fromhim that night; a wheen lazy klle villainsrins a’to be chapmen, comes through thecountry fafhing fouks, ay feekirig quarters;tne next day ye’ll be £aun wi’ a powder’dpirrywig, and a watch at your arfe, andwinna let fouk ftand afore your chap-doors,ye’il be fae laucy. I hearing this my fen-tence from the good man, and expe&ing norelief, but to ly without, yet I perceived,when,he came out of the barn, he only drewtoo the door behind him : S >, when he wasgone, I-flipt into tne barn, and by help ofone of the keples, climbs up the mcu, andthere dives down among the fheaves, andhapped myfelf all over, fo that 1 lay as warmas the goodman himfelf. But in the morn-ing, long before day, two fellows came intothe barn, and fell a-threftiing, that by theirdillurbance I could flsep no more: At lad1 got up, with ail my hair hanging over myface! and when he that flood on the oppcfttefide perceived me, I made my eyes to roll*< 3 )and wrayed my face in fuch a friglitfulmanner, ihat the pour feV’ovv fupp"fed he hadfeen the d—1, or fomfething as ill, gave aroar as if he had been (licked, and out atthe door he runs, the other following afterhim, crying, \W Johny man, what did youfee ? Oi Sandy, Sandy, the d—l^s on thetop o’ the toou’, fheavling bis mouth at me!I’ll not be well again this month, man ; myheart's out o-’ it’s hule; wcu but yon bea fearfu’-like face indeed^ it wou’d bightany living, creature out o’ their fenfes.—I hearing the fear^hey were in, cried untothem not to be frighted, for it was not the■d—1, but a poor chapma", who could notget quarters lad night. A f ul fa’ thy car-cafe dir, faid Sandy, fur cur Jock is throughthe midden-dib, dirt and a’ the gither.—Sandy came back, but jock ran in to thehou(e, and told what he had feen. Thenthe goodman and his wife came running, hewith a grape in his hand, and her with theBible, the'one crying, Sandy, Sandy ! is’ttrue that the d—1 was in the barn? Na, na,faid he, it’s but a chapman, but poor Jockhas gotten a fright wi* him. ! They laughedheartily at the (port, took me in to breakfad,and by this time poor Johnny was gone tobed very lick.3. After this I travelled up by the water•of Clyde, near the foot of Tintock-hill, where( 9 )I met with a fweet companion, who was anolder traveller than I, who gave me moreinformation how to blow the goodwife, andfleek the goodman; with him I kept com¬pany for two months, and as we travelleddown Tweed-fide, towards the border, webeing both hungry, and could get nothingto buy for'the belly, we came to a wife whohad been kirning, but Ihe would give usnothing, nor fell fo much as one halfpenny’sworth of her four-milk: Na, na, faid Ihe,I’ll neither fell batter, bread, or milk, it’sa’ little enough to fair my ain family; yethat’s chapmen may drink water, ye dinnawork fair. Ay, but goodwife, faid I, I haebeen at Temple-bar, where I was fwornne’er to drink water, if 1 could get better.—What do ye fay, faid ihe, about Temple-bar?A town juft about twa-three mile and a bit-tock frae this : A-thief ane was to fwear yethere, an it wafna auld Willie Miller the«obler; the ill thief a neither minifter normagiftrate ever was in’t a’. O but, faysthe other lad, the Temple-bar he means, isat London. Yea, yea, lad, an ye be corn’dfrae Lon’on, ye’re little worth. Lon’on,faid he, is but at home to the place that hucomes from. A-dear, man, quoth fhe, andwhar in a’ the warld comes he frae ? Allthe way frae Italy, where the Pope a Romedwells, faid he. A-fweet be wi’ us, quothflie, for the fouks there ^wa k a.’ witches( 1° )sn warlocks, de’ijs, brownies and fairies!Wei] a wat that is true, laid I, and th;jt thoufhalt krnowY thou hard-hearted wretch, whowould have people to itarve, or provokethem to (leal. With that I rofe, and liftstwa or three long draws, and calling knotson them, into the byre I went, and throwsa knotted draw to every c w’s (lake, faying.Thy days lhall not be long ! — The wifefollowed, wringing both her hands, earneitlypraying for herfelf and all that was hers.—I then caine out at the door, and lifted allone,-running three times round about, andthrew it over the houfe, muttering femewords -which I knew not myfelf, and con¬cluding with thefe words, Thou MonfteurDiable, brother to Beelzebub, god of Ekron*take this wife’s kirn, butter and Tuilk, fapand fubllance, without and within, lo thatdie may die in mifery, as die would haveothers to live.—The wife the aforefaid fen-tence, clapt her hands; and called out anotherold woman as foolifii as herfeif, who camecrying after us to come back. Back wewent, where die made us eat-heartily cfbutter and cheefe; then die.earneUly pleadedwith me to go and lift my cantrups, whichI did,_ upon her prorniung never to deny ahungry traveller meat nor drink, whetherthey had money to pay for’t or not; andnever to ferve the poor with the old proverb.Go home to your own pardh; but give them1 ( 11 )efs or more, as fhe faw them in need.^—Thisfaithfully Hie promifed to do, while Ihe lived;and with milk, we drank towards her cow’sgood health and her own, not forgetting herhufbind and the hull’s, as the one was thegoodman of the houfe, and the other of thebyre. So fo away we came in aU hafte, lelifome of a more underftanding nature Ihouldcome to hear of it, and follow alter us.4. In a few days thereafter we came toan ale-houfe in a muir, far dihant from, anyother. It being a fore day of wind ana rain,• we could not travel, and was obliged to Haythere. The h mfe being very thr.mg, wecould get no bed but the fervant-Ioffes*,which we were to have for a penny-worthof pins and heedles, and flie was to ly withher mailer and miffrel’s. But, as we weregoing to bed, in o-mes three Highland droverson their way home from England ; the land¬lord told them that the beds were all taken upbut one, that two chapmen were to ly in.—One of them fwore, his broad-fword Ihouldfail him, if a chapman ky there that night.I hey took our bed, and made us fit by thefire all night.—I put on a great many peatson the fire, and when the droVers were fallafleep, I put on a big brafs pan fhll of water,and boiled their brogs therein, for the fpaccof half an hour; then lavs them where theywere, each pair by themfelves. So, when( ')they fofe, each began to chide another*, fay-ing, Hup, pup, ye iheing a brog; fo* not oneof them would ferve a child of ten years old,being fo boil’d in. The landlord perfuadedperfuaded them that vtheir feet was fwelkdwith their hard traveliing, bting fo wet thelafl night, aod that they would go on wellenough if they had travelled a mile or two.So that, as the Highlandmen laugh’d at methe night before, when the*/ lay down in thebed I was to have, 1 laugh’d as much to feethem all three trot away in the morningwith their boil’d brogs in their hands.PART II.i. We came to a place near Sutry-hill,where the ale was good, and where we metwith very civil ufage; our drouth being great,the more we drank, the better we lov’d it:And here we fell in. company with a quack-do&or, who bragged us with bottle-about,for two days and two nights; and when anyone fell drunk, we pufh’d and pricked him upwith a big prin, to keep him from fleeping.He bought our hair, and we fome of hispills and drugs, he having as much know¬ledge of the one, as we had of the other;only I was fare, I had as much of his articleas would fet a whole parifh to the mug ormidden, all.at once : But the profit, tho’ allto some, went to the landlady, to make up{ i3 )her loft of having the lime pifli’d eft herdoo-cheeks; and what we did not pilh, wefeyth’d through our teeth, and gave the dogsthe girt bits. But at laft our money ranIhort, and the landlady had no chalk nor faithto credit us, feeing by our coats, courage andconduct, that we would little mind perform¬ance again!! the day of payment; fo then webegan to turn fober and wife behind the hand,and each of ns to feek fupply from another;and when we colle&ed all the money we hadamongft us on the table, it amounted to butfourpence-halfpenny, which we very lovinglydivided among us, being only three halfpencea-piece; and as Drouthy Tom’s flock andmine was conjunct, we gave the quack'againhis !h g fluff and fiinking drugs, and hegave'us our goods and pickles of hair, whichwe equally divided betwixt us; the wholeof it only came to eighteen fhillings andfixpence prime coft, and fo we parted; I wentfor Ealt Lothi^i, and Tom for the Weft.2. My forting of goods being very unfuit-able for that country, I got but little or nomoney, which caufed me apply to the good-man for lodging, and it being upon a Satur¬day’s night, was hard to be found till verylate in the night, when I prevailed to getllaid in a great firmer’s houfe, about twomiles from Haddiogt-n. They were allat fupper when I went in, and I was ordered( 14 )To fit down behind their backs. The good-wife then tick a difh, went round the ier-vants, and coH^-d a foup out of every cog;which was fuffident to have ferved threemen. The goodwife ordered me to be laidin the barn all night, but the bully-'fac’dgo dman fwore he had too much Huff in it,to venture me there. Thg goodwife faid,1 fhould not ly wnhin the houfe, for I wouldbe o'er near the lafs’s bed. Then the ladsfwore I fhonld net go with them, for Twasa forjefket like fellow, and wha kens, faidthey, whether he be honeft or not ? he mayfill his wallet wi’ our claiths, an gang hisiva’ or day light. At laft I was conductedout to the fwine’s fiye, to lleep with an oldfow and feven pigs 1 and there I lay for two ^nights. Here, now, I began to reflect onthe four fruits of drinking, and own all themifery juft that was come upon me. In thenight the young pigs came gruzling aboutme very kindly, thinking I was forne friendef.tbeir mother’s come to vifit them : Theygave me but little reft, always coming kif-ling me with their c^ld nnfes, which obligedme to beat them off with my ftaff, whichcaufed them to rfofe a terrible node, fo thattheir old mother came up to argue the matter,running upon me with open mouth 1 but Igave her fach a rout over her long f-nout,a? can fed her to roar out murder in her ownlanguage, which alarmed the forvsnts where( *5 )they lay, who came to fee what was thematter : I told them their old fow was goingto fv/allow me up alive, biddding them goand bring her meat, whicS they did,, andthe brute became peaceable. On the Sab¬bath morning I came in to the houfe; thegoodraan alked me if I could lliave any ?Yes, faid I, but never did on the Sabbath-day. I fancy, faid he, you are fume Wefl-land Whig ? Sir, laid I, you may fuppofeme to be what you think proper the day,but yelternight you ufed me like a Tory,ivhen you fent me into a flye, to ly in yourfew’s oxter, who is a fitter companion fora devil than any human creature ; the abo-minableft brute upon the earth, faid I, whow'as forbidden to be eaten under the law,and curfed under the gofpel. Be they curs'dor be they bltfs’d, faid he, I wifh 1 had mairo’ them ; but an’ ye will not take off mybeard, ye’s get nae meat here the day.—iTh; n, faid I, if you will not give me meatand drink for money, until the Sabbath bepaft, I’ll take on my wallat, and go alongwith you to the Kirk, and tell your minilterhow you ufed me as a hog. Na, na, laidthe goodwite, you fhall not want your crow-die, man. But mv heart being full of fur¬row and revenge, a few uf them fufficed me,whereon I pnft over that long day, and atnight went to flcep with my old companions,which was not found, being afraid of mifirels. < 16)fo«f’s coming to revenge the quarrel we hadthe night before. In the the m ‘rning I wentinto the houfe; the goodmau ordered me thepottage pat to lick; for, faid he, it is an oldproperty to chapmen. Well, I had no foonerbegun to it, than out came a great big maf-tiff dog from below the bed, and grips meby the breall; then turns me over up~n myback, and takes the pot himfelf. Ay, ay,fatd the g 'odman, I think your brother p>t-licker and you cannot agree about breakfalhA-well, faid I, goddman, you faid that pot¬licking was a chapman’s property, but yourdog proves the contrary. So away I came,and meeting the good wife at the door, bidsher farewel for ever. But what, faid I, isyour hufbartd’s name ? To which flie an-fwered, J ;hn Swine. I was thinking fo,faid I, he has fueh dirty fafhions': But whe¬ther was yon his mother or his niter I laywith thefe two laft nights ?3. All that day I travelled the countryWeft from Haddington, but could get nomeat; when I afked if they had any to fell,they told me, they never did fell any bread,and I found by fad experience, they hadnonne to give for nothing. I came to a littlecountry village, -and went through it all,houfe after hoiife, and could get neitherbread nor ale to buy. At lall I came toa poor weaver’s houfe, and afked him if he( »7 )v;could lend me shammer? Yes, faid he;What are you "oing to do with it ? Indeed,faid I, I am going to knock out all my teethwith it, for I can get no bread to buy in allthis country, for all the (lores and Hacks youhave in it. What, faid he, was you in theminifter’s ? I know not, faid I: Dees he keepan ale-houfe ? O na, faid he, he preachesevery Sunday. And what does he preach ?faid I: Is it to harden your hearts, baudfrell together,have no charity,hate ftrangers,hunger the poor, eat and drink all yourfelves,better burft your bellies than give it to beg¬gars, or let good meat fpoil: It your miniilerbe as naughty as his people, I’m pofitive he’lldrive a l ufe t > London for the hyde andtallow. Here I bought the weaver’s dinnerfor twopence, and then fet out again, keepingmy courfe wellward.4. It being now night, I came to a farmer’shoufe fouth from Dalkeith. The goodmanbeing very civil, and defirotis of news, ,I re¬lated the whole pallages of the two days andnights by-paft; wherewith he was greatlydiverted, and faid, I was the firft he everheard of, that g< t quarters from that manb(«frre, though he was an elder of the parilh.So the goodman and I fell fo thick, that heordered me to be bid on a (hake-down bedbeyond the fire, where I lay more fruig thanamong the fwine. Now,' there was thr$ewomen lying in a bed in the fame apart men frand they not minding that I.was there, firftone of'them rofe and let her water go belowthe chimney-grate, where I hade a perfectview of her, as the coal-fire burnt cfearlyall the night; then another rofe and did thefame; lad of ail got up an old matron, asfhe appeared to be, like a fecond-handedgoodvvife, or a whirl’d o’er maiden, fix timesoverturned; and as Die let her dam gor {healfo, with full force, when done, let a fartlike the blalt of a trumpet, which made thedull on the hearth-done to fly up like millabout her buttocks ! whereat I was ftrc’dto laugh out, which made her run frit;but, to fmother the laughter, I Happed theblankets in my mouth: She went to bed,and waken’d the other two, laying. O dole!what will 1 tell you? yon chapman body hasfeen a’ our a—fes the night: lhame fa’ him,/aid they, for we had nae mind he was there:1 wat well, fays one <>f them, I’fe no rife tillhe be awa’: but laid the old woman, gin hehas feen mine, I cannot help it, it’s jud likeother fouks, and fin’t a hair I care. Theold matron got- up firft in the mormng, andordered up the hemfe; then told me to rilenow, for chapmen and every body was i«p'.Then Ihe a deed me, if I had an ufe of laugh¬ing in my deep ? Yes, faid I, when I feeany dafe like thing, I can look and laughat it, as well Helping as waking. A-good{ 19 )prefecvc us, faid file, ye’re aa unco bodybut ye need dae wait on our dottage-time,I’fe gie you cheefe and bread in your pouch;which I willingly, accepted, and away I came,thanking her for my good quarters,5. Then I kept my courfe well by thef.iot of Pentland hills; where I got plenty ofhair, good and cheap, befides a great quantityof old brafis, v/hich was an excellent articleto make my little pack feem big and weighty.Then I came into a little country village,and going in by the line of a houfe, there wasa great big cat fitting in a weaver’s window,beiking herfelf in the fun, and w a fining herface with- her feet : I takes her a civil knap-on the note, which made her rirn back inthrough the window, and the weaver havinga plate fall of hot pottage, in the inner fide,c oling, poor badrons ran through the middlfp-of them, burnt her feet, and threw them allto the ground, run through the houfe, cryingfire and murder in her own language, whichcaufed the weary wicked webtler to comerunning to the door, where he attacked mein a furious rage; and I, to avoid'the fh ftfimck, fied to the top of the midden, where,endeavouring to give me a kick, I catchedhim by the foot, and tumbled him back overinto the dirty midden-dub, whi-re both hishead and fhoulders went under dirt and'water; but before I could recover my eU, r. ( >wand or arms, the wicked wife and hertwa Tons was upon me in ail quarters j thewife hung in my hair, while the two fonsboxed me about before; and being thus over¬powered by numbers, I was fairly beat bythis wicked webfter, his troops being fo verynumerous and powerful.The fame day, as I was going up toa country-houfe, I met on the way a poorbeggar wife with a b*>y, who was both ofthem bitten in diff rent places by a big maf-lifF dog; they perfuaded me to turn back,but I faid that 1 fhould fi ft fee him. So upI goes to the fide of a hedge, and cuts a long• bramble full of prickles, which I carried inmy left hand, with my fiurdy ftaff in the righ;and .as I came,near the hout’e, Mr. YoufFercame roaring upon me like a lion 1 He beinga tyke of fitch a mosfirous fize, frighted mef;, that I ran back ; but he purfued me fyhard, I was forced r«. face about, and holdingout the briar to him, which he gripped inhis mouth, ?nd then I Tripped it throughhis teeth, and gave him a hearty blow uponhis ear with my rung, which made him gotumbling towards his maker’s door ^ andwhen he got up, he could not fight any, hismouth tyeing fo full of prickles by the bitingof the briar, which caufed him to go aboutyuling, and rubbing his mouth with his foot.The people of the houfe came running out( 21 )to fee what was the matter, I then fliewedthem the briar, telling them their dog caratrunning to bite me, but my briar had bittenhim. They then called him in, and fell topicking the pricks out of his tongue.7. On the Saturday night thereafter, Iwas likt to be badly cfT for quarters ; I hadtravelled until many people were gone tobed; but, at laft, I came to a farmer’s houfe,and alk d them what they would buy, namingtwenty fine things which 1 never had. I thensfkcd for quarters, which they very freelygranted, thinking I was fome gentle chap¬man with a rich pack; but I being wearywith travel, could take but little or no fup-per, and was permitted to ly in the fpence,befide the g< odman’s bed. The gocdwifebeing very dull of hearing, fhe thought thatevery body was fo; for when fhe went to bed,flie cried out, A-how hearie, is nae yon abraw moderate motherate chapman we haehere the night? He took juft feven fups o*our f'wens, an’ that fill’d him fu\—A-dear,Andrew, man, turn ye about, an’ tak mycauld a—fe in y'ur warm lunchoch,-On the morrow I went to the Kirk withthe goodman; and 1 miffing him about thedoor, went into the middle of the Kirk, butcould fee n" empty feats but one big fi rm,where n ne fat but one woman by herfelf,and fu I let rnyfelf down befide her, not( )knowing where I was, until fermon was over,when the Minifler began to rebuke her forufmg her raerry-bit, againll law or licence ;and then Hie began to whinge and yule likea dog, which made me to run out with greatlliarne, before the Minifter had given thebleffing. I then came home to my lodging-houfe, and went to dinner with the gtfodman.It being the cuftom in that place to eat peafebread to their broth, and corn cakes to theirfleih, f* the goodwife laid, down a corn fconeand a peafe leone to the goodman, and thefame to me; and as the goodman and I fatnext other, when he broke ■ ff a piece of thep-afe bread t> his broth, I was fure to breakas much of the oat cake below it; and whenwe came t > eat the flefli, I did the fame :So he ate the coarfe, and I the fine. -PART III.l. I travelled then w eft by Falkirk, bythe foot of the hills; and one night, afterI had got 1 dging in a farmer’s h ufe, therehappened a conteft between the goodmanand his mother, he being a young man un¬married, as I nnderftood, and formerly theirfowens had been made over thin ; fo thegoodman being a fworn birley-man of thatbarony, came to furvey the fi ivens beforethey went on the fire, and adlually fw.ofethey were o’er thin; and (he fwore by her( 23 )confcier.ee they would be thick enough, ifill hands and ill een baed avva’ from them.A-fjveet be here, mither, faid he, do ye thinkthat I’m a witch ? Witch here, or witchthere,,faid the wife, fwtaring by her faul,and that was nae banning fhe faid, they’llbe good fubflantial meat: A-what fay ye,chapman ? Indeed, goodwife, faid 1, fowensjs bat faf: meat at the bell; but if ye makethem thick enough, and put a good lumpof butter in them, they’ll d) very well fora fupper. I true fae, lad, faid ihe, ye haeforme fenfe. So the old woman put on thepot with her f>\vens, and went to milk hercows, leaving me to fteer. The goodman,her fon, as foon as hie went out. to*k a greatcog full of water a-nd put it into th* putamongft the fowens, and then Went-out ofthe houfe and left me alone. I confideredwhat fort of a piIh-the-bed fupper I was toget if I (laid there, and therefore thought itbed to g > in fearch of better quarters; butbefore I fet out, I toyk up a pitcher withwater, and fills up the pot until it was run-ning over; and Ten takes up my pack andgoes about a mile farther that night, leavmgthe hone 11 wwman and her fun to fup theirwatery, witcht fowns at their own leifure.3. In travelling through the Parifh ofSlamanan, I came to a farmehoufe; and as''foon as I entered, the good wife cried out*( 2 4 )Plague on your fnout, ftir, ye filthy black¬guard cbapman-likc b—h it ye are, the lafttime ye came here ye gard our Sandy burnthe good bane*came it 1 gide a faxpence forin Falkirk, ay did ye, an' fae did ve e’en;and faid, ye wad gie him a rauckie clearbutton to do it. Me, faid I, I never had adowi’ you a’ the days o’ my life, an’ do notfay that Sandy is mine. A-wae wirth thebody, am I faying ye had ado wi’ me ?—I wadna hae ado wi’ the like o’ you, nor I’mfare wi’ them I never faw. But what aboutthe button and the bane-came, good-wife ?Sannock, fays fhe, is no this the man? Ay is’t,cried the boy : Gi’e me my button, for I burntthe came, an’ Ihe paid me for’t. Gae awa’,fir, faid I, your mother and you is but mock¬ing me. It was either you, or ane like you,or fome ither body, faid he? O goodwife,faid I, I mind wha it is now ; it’s ane juftlike me, when ye fee the tane ye fee thethher, they ca’ him J^ck Jimpether. A waeworth him, quo’ the wife, if I winna thrapplehim for tny good bane-came. Now, good-wife, faid I, be good, bridle yqur paffion, andbuy f«raething from me. So Ihe bought abane-came and a colour’d napkin, believingfuch a dcufe lad as I, had no hand in advif-ing her boy to burn the bane-came.F 1 N J X*