AULDROBIN GRAY.CTjc (OriginalJamie liadna been awaa twelvemonth and a dayWhen my father brak liisarm, and our cow was stown awayMy xnitber she fell sick, and my Jamie at the sea,When An Id Robin Gray cam a courting me.My father couldna work, and my mither couldna spin ;1 toiled day and night, but their bread I couldna win :Auld Rob maintained them baith, and, wi’ tears in his ee,Said, Jeanie, for their sakes, O marry me!Ballad.NEWTON-STEW ART:Printed by J. M‘NAIRN.^ OF SCOTUND r" c 'l.YAilt) KiaOH.g’.roi'v, InTnjjri^-{«[» k fun!..iliftojjiHvJo’H) » stur tna>I fiflfufol s.it si nv.’oiR • a '»»•) 'an* 1mo» ,nm<Mi( Junl -lyrfi.'.f /<« »vif H..ik><> ■'il in yim«L xnt hue ,if‘■ !M f ■’ iJiijim -/>.. (i« :’i!iHiKv* (•; mKn vk: !) imU.5; f'W. iwt! •'•'tu(I>If.*rj n-tflito vm bn* ,^io»/.iiiif»Ju''i lAtbiii vl'.'tjjipw «nbltruj I Luiruf ii%lt Juil ■ bm«- v«I» bnfioJ'/i ei:i JU 'jp&f'h ,rf' mI HK>ff fwu .:J ' it Jolt U ft.law O ..-.jJt! Tia»ft .>»<}K' s:TH/-.v:aT8,K0twa'M.^UIAK-K :L bajtoHjAULD ROBIN GRAY.Jeanie Grahame was ane of the blithest,bonniest lasses to be seen in the ancient king*dom of Fife, from the Leven Loch to the Bayof St. Andrews ; at le«st she was (speakingof her as I first saw her) happy as a summermavis, and bright as a June rose. What heafterwards saw and underwent was eneuch tohave wasted and withered a’ the beauty thatwas e’er bequeathed from heaven to woman.The affairs of auld Walter Grahame hadbeen lang backgoing, and were now come toa poor pass. It would, indeed, be difficult pre»Ceesely to point out the cause ; but the guidsand gare, collected by the grandfather, Wattieo’ the strong back (so called from bis beingfamous at putting the stane,^ had begun todwindle in the days of his son Alexander, whosucceeded him in the farm of Rowan-brae ;and so great was the confusion to which thingshad been allowed to run, that Walter, thesecond o’ the name, and Jeanie’s father, mightbe said so have fallen to a fruitless inheritanceand to have been left wnxstling in a sea oftroubles.Being the head of a family, and come tothat time of life when moving about thewarld has muckle mair of incumbrance thanpleasure in’t, Walter struggled hare, to betterhis lot. He was up early, and lay downlate, drove his ain cart to the market,—toiled in the fields,,—hedged and ditched,—,and submitted to every drudgery along withthe maist menial o’ his warkmen. All, how¬ever, wadna do. It seemed as if the bow ofProvidence was bent against him,—that hewas a doomed man, and that nothing wasdestined to thrive in his unfortunate hands.His wife and he had foregathered in their5better days, and if it may be said he bore upwi’ a strong fortitude, it maun be confessed,that tho she tholed ill the depravat ions to whichtheir straitened means compelled them. Whena high speerited careless young lassie, she hadmarried for love (as the,saying is), against thewill o’ her relations, that were a’ wealthy andwell to do in the world ; and, when she couldafford to keep up her degree, and brush bythem in a gown of French silk, to the full asguid as their ain, every thing was weel eneuch.It was otherwise, however, when year by yearobleeged her to dispense with some wee bitarticle o’ accustomed finery, and aback-goingfortune estranged faces that had often smiledaround her mair plentiful table. True it is,that with the changes o’ life so we change ;and that with the turns o’ fortune we are oureapt to turn. Her temper began to sour ; shetook to liking an ill tale against her neighbour,and, as the familypurse began to grow lighter,so in proportion did her wounded pride beginto show itself. Wad she petition her friendsfor help ? iNa—na—that wad have been asmuch as owning she had been in error, and* they in the right. Sooner wad she perish ofeauld and hunger; or be forced away intostranger districts, to beg, from door to door,a crust of bread, and a drink o’ water, fromthe hands of the charitable.vT36Oh, but ^eanietGrahamp, the doehter, wasa dear, sweet bonny laissie ! I was lialfin love'uu’ her mysell; and that is niuekle for a doucemarried mail to confess. Her behaviour toher parents, during all tlie time of th eir fKiek--ing mid misfortunes, was most pattern like,a sight to see as guid as a sermon to hear.—She was the very heart and soul o’their hows-liold, and seemed to sited a glint of true pleasure oure the liaihe of honest poverty. Edu-eated to the best o’ the means that even themost prosperous days allowed them, she sub¬mitted to every accumulating little want with-ont a murmur. Still she was the same inno¬cent, contented, eheerfu’ lassie ; still she wasthe light o’ her father’s ee, the pride o’ hermother’s heart. With them beside her, sheseemed to fear naq evil, and to despise everyhardship: her duty seemed aboon a’. Sitesoothed all their misfortunes,—checked alltheir vain repinings,—cheered them with thesmiles o’ her sweet face,—and seemed anethat, to a stranger, had riae cause for tears inthis world; but, for a’that, she sometimesgrat to hersell in secret.Auld Robin Gray, the Laird of StanbdykesI mind him weik He was a talhlour-shoutl ier-c l carle, a guid way up in his sixties at thetime ; wi’ strong, hard-set; features, and abrOwn, three-storey wig. His face was re¬markable for naething but his rough, bushey7ce-Bree, that, grizzled wi’ years/ lookit HikeSii'awy archers thrown oure a pair o’ greysparkling een, Mony antimony a time, whena callant, passing that road, hare I seen h-mstandiug at the hit parapet wa’ before hishouse, with his hands in his,pepper-arKl-sa,'tcoat pockets, his.stuff aueath his oxter, andLis blue bonnet off Iris pow, • looking at a’ the.folks passing on the. road frae Wamyss toDysart, or glinting.his- ee our his braid ffekUsuvroimded wi’fine auld trees, where the cowsstood chewing their cud of fatness, and inswhistling plougblads turned up the mools wi’the glittering share ; proud nae doubt a’ thetime to ken himsell the laird o’ sic a rich in¬heritance. Except for his keen hawk’s ee, anecould scarcely have fund him out; however,there are surer ways of discovering a man‘aheart, than from the cut of his coat, or hisbodily looks ; and where was the neighbourthat ever had occasion to lend him a guidword, or the beggar that e’er depairted fraehis gate muttering a blessing.The Jang and the short of the story is, thatauld Robin was a ddure, hardhearted, selfishman,—the king of misers; scraping and scra¬ping frae a’ corners from day to day, andfromyear to year; screwing what he could by aillawful shifts onto’ ithers; and denying him¬sell amaist the necessaries of life. In the earlypairt of his youth, he had rnanied a cousin of8his ain, a dochter of the Laird of Lowth ; whoafter living wi’ him six or seven miserableyears, took farewell o’this .world it is to hehoupit for a better, the latter pairt o’ her lifehaving been warn* than purgatory,—a dull,broken-hearted creature, that left him thefather of an only son and heir.In the course of years and nature, the son,Jamie, grew up a bonny black-haired laddie,fu’ of the milk of human kindness, funeyandfrolicsome; and seemingly determined tomake up, in the eyes o’ the world, for thesourness of his father’s disposition, by thesweetness of his ain. In all games and exer¬cises he was the foremostand no a lass inthe parishes of Dysart or Kirkaldy wad havescrupled to have set her cap at him.Mony a grin and mony a bitter word didthe laird gie ; yet the outbreakings of youthwere borne by the gruff auld carle better thancould have been expectit. Whether, howeveras he grew aulder, the father’s temper grewmair fractious, or his affection to his callantgrew mair cauld, was hard to discover ; andit became visible to all, from the usage heunderwent, and the drudgeries to which hewas made to yield, that the matter wad soonbe past endurance of a proud-hearted, free-spirited lad —and so it happened ; for, in afit of resentment and sorrow, he betook him-sell to a vessel setting sail frae Leith to theWest Indies; leaving to the doure, gruff,auld miser, and to his housekeeper sand-blind9Nancy, to mak a kirk and a mill of thepleasureless domicile and property of Stane-dyes.On the night before Jamie set off thereWas a grievous parting between him andJeanie Grahame. They seemed made for aneanither; and if, as some suppose, Natureformed human creatures in pairs, these werethe twa that it meant to meet. From theyears in which the heart first opens to love,they had loved each ither like brother andsister ; but with feelings still more warmlykindled, and moie deeply rooted. Neitherhad ever been in love before-^it was first lovefull to the overflowing wi’ passion and power—to which a’ the ither loves of life (if mancan really and truly love twice) are but assounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. Sair,sair, did Jeanie greet, and beg o’ him no togang away ; lang did she hing upon his neckwhile her burning tears drappit down on hishands; but na—his purpose was fixed,—fixed by an oath, as if he had been an auldMede or Persian ; so after explaining to herthe absurdity of his remaining at a hamewhere he could never better himsell ; and ofhis submitting to a state of miserable andslavish dependence, he said he was only a-boot trying to push hj,s ain way in the world,mid to get into a situation th«t would notrender their coming together a thing, as itnow was, altogether hopeless. “No —no” hesaid, “Jeanie,’’taking a farewell kiss from10jher lips, “ you maunna cry,-—it cannt'Otherwise. It were cruel.to you, as weel asinysell to stay where 1 now am. I must—must leave you Jeanie, and mind this,if 1 geton in the world you will see me soon, if nottry to forget what has passed ; and, my dear,jeanie, mind that I leave you a free creature,as free in promise as God’s daylight,— as freeas before I saw ye :—and, when I am far a-way oure the .sea, and forgotten, refuse not aguid offer for the sake of the foolish, sillythoughtless memory o’what has passed be¬twixt us. So nh«y he, when I come harm —if ever it be my fortune to come hame, a erazvweather-beaten, broken down, auld man, [may see ye surrounded wi’ yere bonny bairns,and yere proud goodman— No, haisg me, Iwould he sooner shot thro’ the head, like adog, than see-tire men that dan rod, in myhearing, to ca’ Jeanie Grahame his wife ! !”When tlie auld miser fand tlrat his son hadtdrfen his will in his ain hands, and had de-eanrpit, he had. a grievous contention wi’ thebitterness and blackness of his a in s-peerit,and he vowed that, only son as he was of his,he wad cut him wi’ a shilling ; come whatkket of the guids, gear, and Chatties; he la-inentit he could na carry to the grave withhim. Naething "wad make him relax in hispurpose, his determination was fixed as thewhunstane rock; and the friends that were saeforward as to presume offering a word o’ ad¬vice, fand that they were only rivetting the nail11of hatred more firmly in the laird’s bosom.Considering the ties ©’nature, ane wad havethocht, that the course of time must haveblunted his wrath, and reconceeled him toJamie; but far otherwise. His speerit hadgot a bend that could na be straightened ; so,instead of relenting, every day appeared tomak him mair inveterately cruel. Twa sim¬mers had passed oure, when the laird receiv¬ed a letter from his son, in which Jamie la¬mented the step he had taken, and the waythey had pairted, hoping that, when he sawhim again, as he shortly expectit to do, a’the past wad be forgotten.The auld neerdoweel had scarcely patienceto read the letter thro’, ere he tore it into athousand tatters, and stampit them below hisfeet. “Come hame when ye like, my man,”cried the unnatural father, in the bitternessof his doure rage, “come hame when ye like,ye’se never mair be son of mine, ye havebrewed the cup o’ wilful disobedience, andye maun drink it to the dregs, deevil caresboo bitter the dregs may be. Forgie ye ! faithlad, ye little ken me. I’m no the willow wandto be bowed to your purpose. Do ye hearthat ?” added he, tapping sand-blind” Nancy,his housekeeper, on the shouther, an auldwithered looking witchwife, that deserved ator-barrel on the top o’ Lommond hill, thrbetter than mony that suffered there : do yehear that ? Our bonny son Jamie is think¬ing of paying us a veesit soon. Do ye hear12wli^t I’m spying ?”“Nonsense, laird, nonsense. Jamie cominghame!” answered clootie’s dochter, wi’ a grinthat showed her blackened stumps. “Ou, ay,he’ll be coming to marry his bit bonny sweet¬heart, oure by, Wattie Grahame’s dochter,ye understand, laird.”This was setting fire to tinder. Thelaird lookitfirst black and then blue ; glowred in Nancy’swithered face for a minute without speakin,like a man lost within himsell, then gieinghis head a shake, and screwing his mouthup to a whissle, like a man that has, aftermuckle trouble, seen his way thro’ a puzzle,he clappit his bonnet on his pow, and awaydown the road to Rowan-brae.At Walter’s every thing was looking dowieand mair dowie, gloomier and gloomier.—The cattle, ane after anither, had beenselled to pay the landlord his rent. The barnyard was threshed out arid empty. Sherilf-offisbers frae Edinburgh were seen like wildcats in the gloming, prowling aboot hisbounds tei’ docketted accounts in their sidepockets, threatning poinding and horning;icbile to crown a’, Walter himsell, by a tum¬ble frae his cart shaft in the dark, had got¬ten his arm broken. It teas a hame o’ cauld-rife poverty and wretchedness, Misfortuneafter misfortune showring down upon th°rn,had at length soured Walter’s heart, and bro¬ken doun his speerit. His wife, wha cauldhriVe tholed her puir fate better had she been13among strangers, began to sink under a pride so mor¬tally wounded, and she grew every day mair crabbit andill-tempered, as she harpit cure the thocht o’ their afflict¬ions affording a cause of crowing to her neglectful reflect-: ins.o The warst of a’, however, was, that there wereneither o’ them sae young as they once were ; the snawsof auld age had begun to gather round their brows ; andthey hadna the warm hopes of youth, to see bright daysamidst years to come. Jeanie, puir tiling, bore up won¬derfully, and tho’ doing every thing for the best, she tookhard words, and crabbit looks, without ajnurmur; exertedhersell frae morning till night in managing the howsholdconcerns; and lookit like a stray sunbeam let into a dwel¬ling of darkness.Ane might naturally ask,—had she nae consolationwhich helpit her to oppose this brave speerit to the storm ?had she nae secret help ? nae kind letter ? nae blithe tid¬ings ? Nane—nane ; frae the night of the pairting she hadheard not a syllable from or about him. She kent fromhis own lips that he was aff to the West Indies, and sireheard from ithers that the West Indies is the European'sgrave!Auld Robin, the laird, saw the desolation of his neigh¬bour’s dwelling, and he laid his schemes accordingly. Heblue and braggit of his siller ;—tell’t Wattle that he under¬stood a’ his difficulties ;—that he had nae objections to lendhim a helping hand :—and that to crown all, lie wad makeJeanie his wife, and the leddy of Stahedykes.Walter’s countenance brightened up. It was Iffi" ♦oroh-Sght suddenly let in on folk that have a lang time been sn-tuig in darkness. But an hour afore he had thocht his casedesperate, and now !— yet he could scarcely credit his14-ears. Sooner wad lie have expettit a shower of Goldirae theglpoiny November clouds, then help frae the hand ofthe lairdof Stanedykes. But, tho’ blinded like many e man by aflash of lightning, even then, when he thocht o' his daughter,the young, the bonny, the dutiful,—of sacrificing her inthis gate,—►it was enough to stagger him, and make hisflesh creep. It was, however, the only star he saw in Lisnight of black darkness ; and the laird stuck to him.“Now ye’ve gien me your hand,” said Robin, vising togang awa, “ ye’ve gien me your hand, that ye’f! do yourutmost wi’ my bonny Jeanie. I’ve mair, Walter, thaneither you or her ken aboot, but the day she takes me she’ll}>o mistress o't a’. She’ll hae nathing to do ava, but sit,0:k1 sew, and ehurm like a lintie, and tak her pleasure tvi’ aponie to ride on when she likes the open air; and as motiymaidens to wait on. her,—if she tikes attendance,—as onylord’s leddy frae Karlsferry Abbey to Culzean Castle.—When ye bring me oure word that she's consentit (she’8your daughter, ye ken, Walter, my guide freen; andScripture tells ye, ye can mak her do what ye like), bringoure a’ yero bills and bonds to me, and I'll pit my name onthe back o’them. Then ye ken,” he added, snapping hisfingers “ the’ll he worth twenty siller shillings to thepound ; and as guide as the bank o’Scotland. But mindye, I canna wait; and, if I hear nae her consent the momJ maun een look anither way.”It is hard to say, whoa he thocht of Jeanie in her teens,and tlie laird wi’ ae foot in the grave, whether pleasure-orgrief was uppermost in Walter s heart; but at night; whenthey were sitting oure their cheerless ingle, he took an op¬portunity of breaking the subject to his daughter “ It'strue, Jeanie, my dear,” lie said, giving her a kind chip onthe shouther, “ it’s true we canna get every thing we likein this weary world. Ye’re wither and me there married15like fool*, for love, and llppent to gind fortune f.?'.- tire pie.nisliin^. Ye see wkat we have, been able lo nii^L o’t! Not.lmt I wad yet change her for- ony ane, na—na, gnidwife,Itooever, I’m no speaking about that at present. Ye see,Jennie nay dear, the state to which vve are, reduced ;—everyt]}ing,gauji. hack wi’ ns—empty barus, and horseless stables,—naething but canid poverty,—and me, wi’ my brokenarm, every day,in the. fear o’ being thrown into the jail, Iwush • njy dear Jennie, ye could help us.”“ Me !■ how can I help ye,” said Jeanie, digit ting awaythe tears, thailiad started in her een, wi’the, corner of Irerapron, as she stoppit her spiniiing-v heel. “Ay timber, if itlay in my power, if it lay between me and the end of theworld, to help ye, I would na weary o’ the way.”“ Deed, Jeanie, it is in your ain power—-and ye mauntali, hisn. Ye wed nae doubt like a young man if he of¬fered : but ipak hay, my dear, when the sun shines ; andwhen ance ye’r the leddy of Stanedykes, ye may smirk.iayour sleeve at them a’.”‘t-St&nedykes!—hut, faitlier,” aslut .leanie, innocently“ liC'O can yeca’ Jamie Gray an auid man ? or, tho’ I wereto get him, hoo could either I, or ony ither body, be letkiy-o’ Stanedykes when: the. auid laird is-living?”“ k oung Jamie ?” quo’ Walter, gicing' a lauch, nn, nalass, that tvere a kettle of fish to f:y, .Waa kens alwmt thatscape grace ? Fse warrant he’s married abroatl; or may bew'ha keiis, dead and buried long ago. It’s tie laird huiisell1m speaking about.'”The laird his faither !! ” cried Jeanie, while her’heartfluffed as if it would hae louj)it thro her stays. “Neverspeak in that way. Do ye think the laird wad marry me,that might be his grandchild ; and she gaed a wild lauchthat sounded hardly canny.“ Take ye, Jennie ! ’’ said Walter, kindly patting her16cheek, that had momently grown pale as the driven sna',“ ay, and be glad to get ye.—Oh, Jeanie,” he said, risinghorridly frae his seat, and pacing aboot the floor in a dis-tracit-like way, “ think on the state we are in ; look atme,—look at your pair mither,—we are beggared out o'house and ha',—awl, in a few days, may not have a mouth-* u’ to eat, or a roof to cover us.-’“Jeanie, my bairn,” said 1161* mother, leaning her handon her shouther, hear what your faither says, it is God’struth. Ye’v ay done your duty: come what will, I’ll aysay that o’ ye. But what signifies a’, what matters byganes, if when a word o’ your mouth could lift us out o’this mire of meesery and wretchedness, ye keep your teeth,close, and determine to act the part of an undutiful doch-ter ?”Jennie’s heart swelled to her mouth : and while she satwi’ her hands claspit before her, and the tears running likebeds of boiling water down her cheeks, her voice diedwithin her, and sl*e couldna utter ae word. Her mindseemed to have fairly gien way; and when, in a while herrecollection began to come back, she started, as out of afearfu’ sleep, and in a broken, half-screaming way, criedout, “ It would ruin me here and hereafter—no—no—no—*I daur not , cannot do it.—Oh, I wish—I wish—I wisli Iwas dead and buried! ! !” With this she drappit from herchair on the floor, and gaed away in a dwam, second onlyin soundnes to the awfu sleep of death.Next morning, however, she was up betimes, and gaunaboot the wee affairs of the house (indeed there was nowlittle or naething for her to look after) ; but her pale cheekand sunken ee, told what she had suffered, and was suf¬fering. She seemed to shudder within herself at the hareidea “f t-W strugale which she kent must again be renew¬ed, as me mealing goa is sam to shudder when driven into4#17the den of the hungry wild beast.So great, however, was the effect of the terrible conflk tof yestreen, and such an impression bad it made on theminds of baith father and mother, that, when they regard¬ed the agoneezed countenance of Jeanie, they hesitated toput the thing to the test, though they kent that in thecourse of a few hours, the battle must either be lost crwon for ever. Breakfast passed without scarcely beingtasted, while Jeanie glanced with a fearfu’ ee on them baithas dauting her,and hinging about her, they yet feared andkept aloof frae the momentous subject. The dark cloud,she perceived, had not yet passed over their heads. Hourafter hour glided away. In the courte o’ the forenoon.Wattle hurridly shut the auld family Bible, which hehad set down, as if to pore over: and, putting on his hat,dawnered away out like a tapsy auld man amang the fieldswithout kenning where his path lay.Jeanie at last sat down to her spinning-wheel as usual,tho’ she crooned not away at either of her favourite tunes,* T“Cowden Knows,” or, “The Flowers of the Forest ” andher mother, putting on her spectacles, opened the book herfather had shut. Neither seemed inclined to converse ;and, save the humming of Jeanie’s wheel, and now amithen the mewing of the kitten, that wandered about a-mong the empty dishes in search of its accustomed milk?the hail! house was silent. It didna, however, lang re¬main so. Walter came hurrying in with visible perplex¬ity in bis features; and throwing bis hat into a corner*sank down into a chair by the window, Jeanie turned18*! .1 looked him i* the hep, but, in the anxiety there pa, t-■i, saw eneiu’h to prevent the looking a second time.—he shadow of desolation esnieoure her speerit.Jeanie, my dear bt irn,” cried Walter, rising up be-! d her, a,nd patting her tenderly on the back, “(Mi!r.ie, have mercy on ns,—speak the word afore it here late. Could ye bear to see the father that brought ye>, and the mitlier that bore ye—could ye bear to see youri’d mither and me begging onr bread frae door to <h or,lying on the straw of a poor house ? we thcchtna—chtna tohave come to that—and you have it in your: wer to put every thing right. Say but the word ; everying depends on you,—our comfort, nav, even our very1 stance. We’ll lie down on our knees before ye on theor,—the parents that gaed ye being will throw them,iis at your feet, ye surely canna spurn them awawi’ (iis.ain ! Ye cana shut your heart to cur prayers ! Ye canua»•< rj-' h, . ■ ■ i n -. jdiink there is a hereafter—and see us starving here !”This was past human tholing. “ What maun I do—what maun I do ?” said Jeanie, eagerly, “ tell me what Imaun do ?”“ Ye maun just say, my dear lassie, that ye’ll marryaird Gray. That’s a’ Jeanie we want ye to say ; andMat's na nmekle.”—And, as W alter spoke these words,is voice trembled with anxiety and earnestness. Where1 nld Jennie look for council ? She lookit in her mithersj ce—and her mither’s een seemed to say, “ Oh ! Jeanieo it, or my heart will break.” Jeanie's heart was ali bu '.rokeii T“ To be s^ure, to be sure,’’* she said, puttirg ber band■w irbih her mother’s, “ Ftt" do v, hatever ve want me.—7 fc iOny thing, ony thing.”At this very moment Robin Cray, whose coming mirethe fields Walter had Seen him before hurrying in, tappedat the door, carrying in his hand a pair o’ fat ducks,hiv -first present o’ courtship to a famishing family.It wad he needless here, and a west haith of time andpaper, to gang thro’ wi’ all the eircumstantilities thattook place before the wadding, which caused a titter ofastonishment and' jeering laughter alang the Imill shore ofFife. But married they were, to the no small conster¬nation of sand-blind Nancy, the vetran housekeeper, wbaheesitated about gieing up the keys ; till,- at last, forcedto believe her ain een, she concluded that the laird hadgrown donnard, and lost his right senses. Scarcely, lessthunderstruck were Walter Grahame and his wife, whenthey fand what a few days had brought forth ; but theaccepted bills, thestockit pantry, and the calls of money,that scarce a week agone passed their door, like theLevite on the opposite side, assured them that ail wasn'aa dream,Jeunie saw her father and mother once more raisedfrae misery to comfort, and felt hersell the leddy ofStanedykes. Of guids and gear she had eiieuch, and tospare. Some, of course, wad take it for granted she washappy ; that, however, is another question.It was in the thoughtfu’ month of September, wrhf.nthe yellowing leaves, die heavy clouds, and the shorten-20mg clays, remind man of the fate that sooner or later awaitshim; and, it might be, some five or six weeks from the dateof puir Jeanie’s mariiage, that ae gloaming, as she was sit¬ting at the far end o’ the garden behind the house, underthe burtree-bush, thinking, maybe mournfully o’ the daysthat were gone, a man dressed in a Sailors jacket burstsuddenly thro’ the hedge, and stood before her!They gazed on each other for some time without speak¬ing. His een were rivetted upon her, and pierced thro*Jeanie’s soul ; yet she couldna turn her head away. What,oh heaven and earth ! maun she have felt, when she sawwha stood before her—when she saw herain Jamie Graylooking into her heart—when she thocht of what hadpassed ativeen them, and when she thocht on what shenow was—his father’s wife !He spoke not a word ; hut, with a smile of deevilishcontempt, slowly rising up his finger opposite her face,he gave a long hiss of the bitterest scorn, turned on hisheel, and departed.Jeanie was carried to bed in a racing fever; and the laird,who had heard of his son’s arrival, imputed it at ance, inthe jaundic of his jealousy, to the right cause. With thewild fury of a madmen, he taxed her with having brokenthro the vow she had sae lately sworn ta afore the mini¬ster. All the wicked passions of his wicked heart wereroused up like 'serpents frae their dens. He stampit andswore about his son in the whirlwind of his unnaturalhatred : he shook his head oure the deeing Jeanie, tellingher that she, like the rest, was but born to deceive214iim; fHid cursed the day that ever gave hirth to such aunfortunate miserable wretch as himsell.An awful night of tempestuous horror frowned over,and next morning Jeanie was out o’ mind and deleriousShe muttered and raved constantly about Jamie, askingW'hy he had been sae lang, lang o’ coming! What placeof the West Indies they had buried him in !—and to takeaway the man in the sailor’s clase that was ay standingafore her. Force was at last used to confine her to herbed; and auld sand-blind Nancy, standing wi’ her liands•in her sides in the middle of the floor, casting a leer firston the bed where lay the distracted and dying bride, andthen on the laird, that was pacing up and down the room,wi’ his hands behind his back, mumbled wi’ hellish re¬joicing, between her teeth, “ What think ye now, maister.o’ yer bonny bit wife ?’’Her strength at last totally exhausted, Jeanie fell asleeplate in the afternoon; and the laird bidding somebody leavethe room, darkened the windows, and sat doun to dozein the leather elbow chair by the bedside, where the sick-nurse had been sitting. Scarcely had he dosed his eenwhen he fand something desperately squeezing him. H estarted forrit, and lookit up. It was Jeanie's hand thatheld a grap of his coat sleeve, so forcibly that he felt herfinger nails piercing the flesh o’ his withered arm.-—Scarcely could the hand be drawn away, tho’ the spark oflife had fled for ever !Jamie wag never seen in Fife after. Some say that he0x. afe shot in a sea-figLt off the Nore, and others that hewas the stranger that throw himseH oure the pier of Leith,The truth is that naehody ever heard mair about iiim.Auld Laird Gray spiin out ten years after Jeanie'sjudgment-like departure; but he never could be said fromthat time, to be properly in his right mind, losing his fa¬culties, ane after anither, and grow ing, wi’ the frailties ofage, a kind o’ second bairn, or rather natural. However,let the truth ay be spoken, he had his beef-tea, or chicken-soup, regularly every day; and his swelled legs carefullywrappit up in the finest Welch flannel, were laid on astool wi’ a silk cushion, by the dutifu’ hands of sand-blindNancy.Jeanie’s gravestone is in the southermost corner of thekirkyard of Dysart; but the reading is now scarcely le¬gible, from the effects of the rain and sea winds on a softstane. On the tap o’t there’s the figure of a wee angel,hlawing a trumpet; butsae defaced as not to be able to scareaway the sea-gulls that come up frae the shore, sail roundand round about it, and at last light upon't wi’ a scream,as if it was the grave of some auld sailor of their acquaint¬ance they had come up on purpose to pay a visit to.I23tIt may very readily be supposed that this is the storyOn which the very beautiful Scottish ballad of Auld RobinGray is founded; though with a fine discrimination, LadyMary Lindsay, leaving out the unpleasant parts of tlienarrative, has felicitously converted it from a tale of guiltand suffering to one of unmingled tenderness and beauty.The circumstance throughout, even as connected withthe ballad, bear too evidently the impress of truth to bothe mere mental imaginings of any sentimental poet orpoetess; and though, like the ancient legend of Gil Mor-rice, on which Home has founded his exquisite nationaltragedy, or the pathetic tale of Girolamo and Sylvestra,from which Barry Cornwall drew the finest of his drama¬tic scenes, “ The Broken Heart,”—these circumstancesnow only appeal to our feelings in the lines to which thesinging of Miss Stephens has added a more destirved ce-ebrity ; yet we see life, real life, and actual occurrence,in every stanza, most visibly and distinctly.\\ e believe there is no existing record of the time atwhich the ballad was composed ; but from the authoress. having died within the last year, though at a very advan¬ced age, we may with certainty assign it to a date con¬siderably posterior to the prose record, whose language24in many places exhibits the idiomatic Scotch simplicityof the latter portion of the seventeenth century. In otherparts,the hand of some impertinent transcriber, who hasused the liberty of interlarding the narrative with his ownless Doric, though more modern expressions, is but tooperceptible to escape censure.FINIS.:/> .6- '■ :.i—' 14