*NEW AND IMPKOVED SERIES,No. 43.TEE HISTORY OFWHITTINGTON AND IIIS CAT,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1853.' OF SCOTLAND10 Y30T8IH SLUTTHE HISTORYoi?WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.Tjietie once lived in a country villa!re, in the reign of KingEdward the Third, a man and his wife named Whittington,who had a son called Dick. But his father and mother dyingwhen he was very young, he remembered but little or nothingat all of them, and used to run about the village a poor raggedlittle fellow. As poor Dick was not old enough to work, hewas very badly off; he got but little for his dinner, and some¬times nothing at all for his breakfast; and the people in thevillage being most of them very poor, Dick did not obtain fromthem much relief.For all this, Dick Whittington was a very sharp boy, andwas always listening to what every body was talking about.On Sunday he was sure to get near the farmers, as they sattalking on the tombstones in the churchyard, before the parsonwas come ; and once a week you might see Dick leaning againstthe sign-post of the village ale-house, where the people stoppedto drink as they came from the next market town ; and whenthe barber’s shop door was open, Dick listened to all the newsthat his customers told one another.In this manner Dick heard a great many strange things,particularly about the great city called London; and the oldwoman with whom Dick lodged, perceiving he had got some¬thing in his head, endeavoured to get the secret, which was hisintention to go to London. No sooner did she know it, but she,in order to deter him from thinking of such a step, pointed outthe happiness and the safety of a country life, on the one hand,and the noise and evils of great cities on the other, in suchstriking colours, as she hoped would at once fix his choice infavour of a country life.Whittington listened to what sho said with surprise and4anxiety; but at length remembering that his kind and tenderfriend was old, and young as he was, concluded that the differ¬ence of opinion between him and her, arose solely from the onebeing old and loving quietness and ease, and the other beingyoung, wishing to hear and see all that was going forward ;under which idea, he resolved to forbear mentioning his wishesin future; for though a stranger to art, he knew that it wascruel to make any one unhappy,—a lesson his kind friend hadstrongly impressed upon his mind,—and surely those we lovefor their kindness to us should never be made unhappy. Theold woman, a short time afterwards died, soothing herself in herlast moments with the idea that she had entirely closed theheart of the poor orphan against any wish for a change; andthat he would remain where he was, and there be secure fromevil.Whittington felt her loss with the regret of a child for abeloved parent; and having in vain looked round for a friendto supply her place,—“What have I to do here any longer,”cried he, “ where my grief is unpitied, and my wants unnoticed?where I may die of famine or despair, and no one feel or carewhat is to become of me ?” Ho therefore spoke to a waggonerto lot him walk by the side of his waggon to London, as thegreatest of favours ; and the waggoner happening to be a good-natured and thoughtless fellow, consented without once con¬sidering what was afterwards to become of him, adding, he mightsleep all night in his waggon. Poor Whittington, transportedwith joy at his good fortune, packed up the little he could callbis own in a small bag, which slinging across his shoulders, hoset off, and soon began to beat time with his feet to the5waggoner’s whistle, without the least fear or dread of whatmight become of him.When left for the night in the waggon, his little mind beganto set itself to work ; he was without one relation in the world,whilst other little boys had a father and mother to protect them,he had neither friends nor money. What could he then hopefor? What had he not to fear? But recollecting the lastwords of his dear friend, that there was a Father to the father¬less, and that he would bless and preserve him if he was onlya good child. He implored his pity to a poor helpless child,promising evermore, to the best of his power, to deserve it, andthen composed himself to sleep.He was far on his way when he awoke in the morning; andbeing relieved in mind and body, he joined his fellow traveller,until the happy moment arrived that he was bid to look up, forthere was London before his eyes.The waggoner having made him partake of his supper, andgiven him a few pence for the morning, out of pure good nature,left him asleep in the hay loft, into which ho had lifted him ;bidding good-bye being somewhat touching, he believed, toothers feelings as well as his own ; but as the people of the innhad no motives, in their opinion, for treating any body kindly, hewas early roused by the ostler, and told to go about his business.Boor Whittington instantly obeyed the word of command,but knew not where to go. All around him was astonishing—he was delighted 1 Every body seemed happy—every bodyseemed employed : whence, according to his arithmetic, everybody must be getting money; he could therefore have nothingmore to do than to seek to gain a master. It was true, indeed,(and he could not help sighing deeply whilst ho acknowledgedthat truth,) he had been bred to no trade whatever—couldneither read nor write—“But then,” whispered Hope, “youhave feet to walk upon, far and wide ; hands to work, where noparticular skill is required ; and a tongue to speak your wants,or deliver a message you maybe intrusted with.” The poorboy was so enlivened by this hint, that he cried out aloud,“ Who is afraid ? • I have, moreover, in my pocket, sufficientto buy me this day’s food. I will therefore spend this wholeday in seeing London.”Whittington, however, soon discovered that seeing Londonwas not so pleasurable a task as he had flattered himself heshould find it; for wherever he stopped to gaze on any objectthat took his fancy, he was driven on this side, and pushed onthat: and, in a word, to his great surprise, when he littlethought he was in any body’s way, he found himself in everybody’s way.«As the evening drew on he began to feel an anxiety he hac|inot taken into liis account; namely, where he could pass thatnight. He had been east out at the inn, and had but one pennyremaining of the waggoner's bounty. As the only choice hehad, however, was either to walk the streets all night, or creep!under some bulk to hide himself and try to sleep, he at lengthfixed on a hard pillow, on which, nevertheless, he could haveslept, if undisturbed by the guard of the night; for crying thehour was a source of terror to him, though to all those who felttheir safety thereby, it was the voice of gladness.He passed the next day without food, for his last and onlyipenny had fallen nut of his pocket, and had been picked up bysome one before he bad discovered his loss. Hungry, weary,faint, and deeply dejected, he was ashamed to beg, and knewnot who to ask tor work : when, on passing a gentleman's doorin the Minories, in this deplorable state, he resolved to knockat it, his miud telling him he should be benefited thereby. Hewith much difficulty reached the knocker; bnt unable tosupport himself, he sunk down on the steps, and the knockerslipped so suddenly out of his hand as to occasion a loud rap,and the door was opened in a moment by the gentleman's cook-maid, a woman of a most unfeeling heart. Highly offended onbeholding the low creature she had hurried herself to wait upon,she threatened to spurn him away, if he did not immediatelyremove himself. At this menaced harsh treatment he en¬deavoured to get out of her way, but was unable to do so. Atthis moment the master of the house arrived, whose name wasFitzwarren, a mercer and merchant, with his daughter. Mr.FiUwarren was all benevolence, his young daughter all compas-7sion towards the distressed; and poor Whittington’s heart wasso relieved by their looks, that he told his tale in such touchinglanguage, that the young lady entreated, and her father orderedthe wretched boy to be taken into the house, fed, and put tobed, until he had recovered his strength, and could walk fromthence and get his living.Little Dick would have lived very happily in this worthyfamily, had it not been for the crabbed cook, who was findingfault and scolding at him from morning till night; and waswithal so fond of roasting and basting, that, when the spit wasout of her hands, she would be at basting poor Dick’s head andshoulders with a broom, or any thing else that happened to fallin her way; till at last her ill usage of him was told to MissAlice, Mr. Fitzwarren’s daughter, who asked the ill-tempei'edcreature, if she was not ashamed to use a little friendless boyso crnelly; and added, she would certainly be turned away ifshe did not treat him with more kindness.But though the cook was so ill-tempered, Mr. Fitzwarren’sfootman was quite the contrary ; he had lived in the familymany years, was rather elderly, and had once a little boy of hisown, who died when about the age of Whittington; so he couldnot but feel compassion for the poor boy.As the footman was very fond of reading, he used generallyin the evening to entertain his fellow-servants, when they haddone their work, with some amusing book. The pleasure ourlittle hero took in hearing him made him very much desire tolearn to read too; so the next time the good-natured footmajigave him a half-penny, he bought a horn-book with it; andwith a little of his help, Dick soon learned his letters, andafterwards to read.8About this time, Miss Alice was going out one morning fora walk : and the footman happening to be out of the way, littleDick, who had received from Mr. Fitzwarren a neat suit ofclothes, to go to church on Sundays, was ordered to put themon and walk behind her. As they walked along, Miss Alice,seeing a poor woman with one child in her arms, and anotherat her back, pulled out her purse, and gave her some money;and as she was putting it again into her pocket, she dropped iton the ground, and walked on. Luckily Dick, who was be¬hind, saw what she had done, picked it up, and immediatelypresented it to her.Miss in a short time slipped into the kitchen, having formed aa most unfavourable opinion of Mrs. Cook’s humanity, from whatshe had seen of her behaviour to the poor boy, to know how theywent on ; and, having learned from himself how long he hadbeen a poor orphan, and how he was allured to London, and thegrievous distress that journey had plunged him into, she hastenedto her father and mother, with tears in her eyes, and pleadedso successfully for him, that it was agreed, if he proved a goodboy, he should remain in the family till he could be better pro¬vided for, as the only work that the family could give him, wasassisting the cook, cleaning shoes, die.But most unfortunately as it then appeared, the choice ofwhere he should sleep being left to the cook, she had the crueltyto hoist him up into a loft, common in old built houses, which,in addition to the hard bed she gave him to lie on, was infestedwith rats and mice without number.Whittington, nevertheless, resolved not to complain, for, !under the roof with such worthy people as Mr. Fitzwarren andhis wife, not forgetting their little daughter, he thought his lot19hnd fallen in good ground ; but, as delivering himself from suchgreat annoyances was a grand object, ho resolved to buy a catwith the first money he got. Nor was it long before he hadboth the means and the opportunity of so doing ; for, very earlyin the morning, within the same week, a little girl passed thodoor as he was cleaning it, with a cat in her arms; which shooffered to sell, but wanted more money than he could raise.But perceiving he had tears in his eyes, and a tempting pennyin his hand, she came down to his price.The delighted boy hastened,unperceived, to his loft, before thecook opened her eyes; and finding a wicker basket with a cover,which being in dirty condition, and out of use, he thought hemight venture to take, for his cat to live in during his absencein the day, to prevent her running out of the loft, and the cookfrom getting a sight of her; for he knew her ill-temper to bosuch, that if she ever beheld her, she would turn her out intothe street.Having surmounted these prodigious difficulties, he began toamuse himself at stolen moments, when he ran up stairs to askPuss how she did, with thinking what name he should give her;when hoping she might one day become a favourite with hisyoung mistress, he called her Felice.Poor Whittington’s cat, besides being an excellent mouser,had all the sportive talents of her tribe. Whence, as soon asher master found himself perfectly freed from his late tormentors,bo began to call them into exercise; and accordingly havingreceived a few lessons only, Puss would creep into his pocketlike a squirrel, follow him as far as he would permit her, and likea little puppy dog, jump over his hands at command. In a word,she became as lively and entertaining a companion, as she had10proved herself to he a useful one, and was the whole solace othis life. In one of these happy moments, for they were the onlyhappy moments he ever enjoyed, out of his kind master andmistress’s presence, he was at length surprised by his younglady ; for cook being gone out, he forgot to guard against othervisitors; and, at his young mistress’s request, Puss wentthrough all her pretty manceuvriags, with equal honour toherself and her master.Whittington besought the young lady not to mention a wordof her discovery to any person on earth, and she was so good asto promise she would comply with his request; and being,moreover, greatly pleased with Puss, she contrived to have aquarter of an hour’s play with her every day, when the familydined at home.Puss, as well as her master, improving much on acquaintance.Miss Fitzwarren (though drawing was taught but to few inthose days) drew Whittington and his cat to perfection ; andwas so kind as to let the picture become an ornament of hisloft, and proud enough he was of possessing such a gift. Thesehappy moments were, however, short-lived, for tho poor boywas the slave of a barbarous woman’s temper, who not onlymade him turnspit, but spurned him and beat him at will.Miss Fitzwarren and Whittington were nearly of the sameage; her person was not beautiful, but the very first-rate ofagreeable, and her disposition truly amiable. No wonder,therefore, that to a poor lad, smarting under all the evils of acontrary disposition, she should appear nothing less than anangel; whilst the modesty of Whittington’s demeanour, hisuncommonly good language for his condition, his grateful andrespectful conduct, made her his friend ; insomuch, that shebegged her father would let one of the clerks teach the poorfellow to write, as ho was an orphan, and had no other chanceof learning what might be so useful to him in future. One ofthe clerks was tlierefore ordered to set him copies, and hear himread ; and his improvement was astonishing.Mr. Fitzwarren being a silk mercer, and a great merchant,imported large quantities of silk from India, just in the stateit was spun by the little worms, thence called silk worms. Ofcourse tins gentleman sent out such articles as were best receivedabroad in exchange; and it being his benevolent custom, whena ship, freighted at his own expense, was ready to sail, to callhis family around him, that every one might provide a littleventure, according tothoir wishes or abilities, to be improved tothe best advantage by the kind care of the captain, who was aman after his own heart. On looking about him on such anoccasion, ho missed Whittington, and had him sought for ; hutnthe poor lad had hid himself, from the shame of beins; the onlyone incapable of benefiting by his master’s liberal offer. Missbegged she might call him ; when her voice instantly drew himforth, and she would not return to the parlour without him.“You have been weeping,” said she, “with Puss, I suppose;but wherefore do you shed tears thus, over a creature thatneither can understand your grief, nor in any degree soothe it?”“She does both, replied Whittington : “she is lively when Iam lively, and sorrowful when I am sorrowful; for, pardon myfreedom, Miss, she reads my feelings, as you have had thegoodness to do, in my face.”. ^ hittington assured his master he had every due sense of hiskindness, but bad not an article be could call his own. Hisyoung lady entreated she might buy something for him- butl her father told her that would not do, for it must be his own. tobe a fortunate venture. “You have, Dick, a cat,” said Miss.1 The poor lad burst into tears; but his master’s ear having112caught the ward, ho ordered puss to be brought, and madeWhittington deliver her up, with his own hands to the captain ;but not until Miss, in order to show the value of Dick’s ventureto all present, had made her perform all her sportive tricks, tothe equal surprise and pleasure of the whole company, exceptthe cook; who beheld the boy part from her, with a heart¬breaking look, wholly unmoved.Whittington a second time hid himself, to conceal his grieffrom all eyes; but strange to tell, the whole scene operated somaliciously on the cook’s mind, from thinking the boy was tookindly treated, and such like ideas, that she made it her dailypractice to tease and torment him ; either about having partedwith his poor cat, that he pretended to have so much love for,she would say; or his vanity and folly in setting so high avalue on her. “A fine cargo, no doubt,” cried she, “she willbring you in return! Perhaps herself; that is,” she would add,“her skin stuffed, to supply the place of her lifeless body, andto make her look as if she was alive!”Whittington was so distressed by these taunts and jeers, thathe was obliged to call all his reason, and all the good lessons hisold deceased friend had taught him, in aid, to enable him tosupport them; for her unprovoked malice embittered his life;and the more especially, as, by losing his cat, he was cut offfrom the consoling looks and words of his dear young mistress.At length, however, quite terrified at his own feelings,without having the relief of breathing them to any one, heresolved to run away; for in his opinion, to die of grief thatought to be conquered, or by human means, was alike offensiveto his Maker. Having tied up a trifle or two, he contrived toslip them out of doors, and soon follow them. He stopped andlooked back on the paradise he had quitted with grief. Nevershould he hear his master’s kind voice more; never morereceive his mistress’s gentle commands, nor behold his dearyoung lady again! But finding the more he lingered, themore languid his resolution became, he set off, and never oncestopped until he reached the stone at the foot of Highgato Hill;which, from his having there rested himself, is called “ Whit¬tington’s Stone, ’ ’ to this day.The poor fellow’s mind was so agitated, he knew not whathe saw or heard, until roused into attention by Bow bells,which, as it was their custom on All-hallow’s day, began to ringa peal; that, by the force of fancy, sounded in his ear,—Turn atrain Whittington,Lord Mayor of London ! !He suddenly jumped up, and rubbed his eyes, that he might be13certain he was awake. “Ah!” cried he, “is it I—the forlorn,the outcast Whittington, that shall bo Lord Mayor?” Thenshall I see those I love best once again !” Still the bells con¬tinued their song. “It is enough,” said Whittington ; “ whatwould not any one endure to arrive at such greatness and suchhonour! I will therefore go back, and patiently sustain all Imust suffer, only to gain myselt a chance for such glory andsuch happinessand thus making hope his walking-stick, horeturned back, exercising it against despairing thoughts: and! all this was unobserved by any one.Whilst Whittington was bowing his neck to the yoke of anusurped tyranny, Fuss and her fellow voyagers made way, pro¬ceeding with all sail for the East; but navigation was then anice and difficult art; for the compass, that now tells us howto steer, was then wholly unknown. Whence the winds andthe waves sported with ships, and often tossed them out oftheir latitude; as was the case with the “Unicorn,” to thedelay and alarm of all on board.Puss, during her passage, however, presented the captainwith a young family of kittens; who grew up as sportive astheir mother, and thereby diverted the sailors many a tedioushour. Hopeless, however, at length, of regaining their losttrack, and terrified by the view of their reduced provisions, (for,at sea, the remedy for such an evil is dreadful but to think of,)they were reduced to the horrible extremity of casting lots whoshould die, when they were relieved in the moment of theirdeepest despair, by seeing land; and this land, when theyreached it, proved to be a kingdom on the African coast,abounding with mines of wealth.The arrival of a ship on this coast was so pleasurable, because14so unusual a thing, that the king sent some of his high conrtiersto congratulate them on their safety, if compelled by a tempestto visit them. The captain made suitable returns to theircompliments; and accepted the invitation sent him by theking and queen, together with such persons as he chose shouldshare the honour, to dine with them. But what must be hissurprise, when, on an elegant dinner being served up, anincredible number of rats and mice rushed forth and devouredit, or, at least, rendered what they left behind them unfit to boeaten.The captain, extremely astonished, asked if these verminwere not very offensive. The king answered, in the patheticlines which we, the historians of Whittington, have heard sungby his most sable Majesty’s representative,Me no breakfast, dine, nor sup.Rat he come, and eat all up.Ting a ring, ting, #c.And, “O yes,” said tbe lords in waiting, “the king wouldgive half his treasures to be free of them; for they not onlydestroy his dinner, but they disturb him even in his chamber,so that he is obliged to be watched while he sleeps.The captain jumped for joy, remembering poor Whittington'shard case, and the cat he had intrusted to his care, and toldthe king he had a creature on board his ship, that would destroythe vermin, and save the kingdom.The king was overjoyed, “Bring this creature to me,”says he; ‘‘and if she can really perform what you say, I willload your ship with gold dust and ivory in exchange for her.”15Away ran the captain to the ship, while another dinner wasproviding, and, taking puss under his arm, returned to thehovel, called a palace, in time to see the second dinner meetwith the same fate as the first.The cat, at the sight of them, did not wait for bidding, butsprung from the captain's arm, and in a few moments laid thegreatest part of the rats and mice dead at her feet, while therest, in the greatest fright imaginable, scampered away to theirhiding-places. She was then stroked and patted by every one;and the sum given for her is well known to have been immense,if even exaggerated by fame in some small degree.Her majesty, however, with Puss in her lap, where she hadvery speedily sung herself fast asleep, appeared lost in thought;the cause of which being inquired into, she said, “That infeeling the past, she could not forbear being alarmed for thefuture ; as there could be little doubt, if the cat died, theoffensive animals would renew thqir old practices, which couldnot fail exciting tenfold distress and disgust by their havingbeen for some time free from their violence.” How agreeable,therefore, must the news be, that the captain could furnish themwith a whole family, sufficient, in process of time, to stock thekingdom!The queen had a tender mind, and having heard the captain(at her own request,) many times repeat poor Whittington’shistory, his orphan infancy, his friendless state, and his distressat parting from his cat, though for the greatest hoped-foradvantage, she told the king, and his majesty was perfectly ofthe same opinion, that having made them so happy, it wastheir duty to render him happy also; “therefore,” cried she,“tell him to receive back his beloved cat, lest, without that16addition to his wealth, ho maybe unable to enjoy all we bestowupon him.” Puss was accordingly recommitted to her wicker-basket, by the queen’s own hands, having first tried and provedthat the progeny she left behind, were as capable as herself ofprotecting the palace from the late invaders.The captain now a second time hoisted his flag, unfurled hissails, and, with a fair wind, and most encouraging gale, set sailfor England ; but the ship “ Unicorn” had for so many monthsbeen unheard of, that Mr. Fitzwarren concluded it was buried,and all it contained, in the deep. And whilst poor Whittingtonwas shocked at remembering his loss, when so many of hisfellow-beings were gone to the bottom, yet was he unable toforget the love he bore his cat, or forbear to lament he hadexposed her to the perils of the sea.Mr. Fitzwarren, to whom the captain was endeared from hismanifold virtues, he setting him down for a human gem, aboveall price, was greatly concerned to think he was no more. Onemorning, however, when these friendly regrets were nearlyoverpowering his mind, who should he behold at the door, butthe very man ho utterly despaired of ever seeing again.The meeting was touching on both sides; and the ladiesbeing present, were much affected at the view thereof. When,no longer able to suppress her desire to know how Puss hadborne the voyage, Miss Fitzwarren telling the captain as much,he immediately opened on their knowledge the wonderful eventsthat animal had produced ; adding, that he much feared itwould be dangerous to let the poor lad know all his good fortuneat once! or, even to be made master of the wealth he hadbrought him. “Let him be called,” cried Mr. Fitzwarren—“instantly called,” said the worthy man, with heartfelt joy atthe news : “The gifts of Providence must be held sacred; andthe whole gift of Providence, on this occasion, is the orphan’sdue.”Whittington slowly appeared ; but his appearance was mostdismaying, for the cook had just complimented him with a ladleof dripping over his clothes; which, though by no means thebest he was master of, were decent, and more than suited to thebusiness he was engaged in : namely, turning the spit, andcleaning his master's shoes.“My worthy fellow,” said Mr. Fitzwarren, seizing his dirtyhand, “ be of good cheer: patient sufferers seldom pass un¬rewarded. Instead, therefore, of the scullery and the kitchen,to which you never more return, you are—yes, my late forlornchild,—you are now become my equal; and as with me, virtue,much rather than money, makes the man, you shall, henceforth,in honour of your virtue, be my beloved friend, roy favourite17companion.” Whittington’s astonishment rendered him forsome time speechless; the ladies wept without reserve; andMr. Fitzwarren and the captain turned aside their heads, tohide a humane and manly tear, that would not be suppressed.At length, “You, Sir,” cried Whittington, “are much toogood to sport with the unhappy, or to wound the defenceless.I therefore believe what you tell me to be true, because youtell it me ; as unable as I am to comprehend wherefore suchblessings are poured down on my head. Those trunks,” con¬tinued he, pointing to them, “ are marked, I see, as mine : but,oh. Sir, that mark is a false one !—they are yours—and youmust either deign to consider them as such, or their contentscan never bo enjoyed in any manner by me.”“Idle, idle,” said Mr. Fitzwarren. “Do not, dearest Sir,”resumed Whittington, “do not plunge me into despair do not drive me from your beloved presence, in the very momentyou wish to see me happy. Allow me to be humble, yourgrateful friend, if such is your generous desire; but take thewealth, for your friendship is all the riches, all the honour, andall the happiness, I would obtain!” “Bravo! my dearWhittington,” cried Mr. Fitzwarren : “and be your happinesswhatever you choose to make it.”Whittington rose, and was preparing to retire to improvehis dress. ‘‘Hold! hold!” said the captain: “these trunksarc not all the king and queen have sent you. Holla, there!”cried he, to a sailor in the hall, “ bring in that article.” When,lo! what should present itself to the delighted eyes of Whit¬tington, but the well-known wicker basket, out of which leapedMrs. Puss, and paid her due compliments to the company ; for18the creature knew them all, rubbed her head against hermaster's face, twirled herself round Mr. Fitzwarren’s legs,looked up at Mrs. Fitzwanen, and purred ; and jumping upinto Miss Fitzwarren’s lap, composed herself, and seemed to feelherself perfectly at home. But on her master’s retiring todress, she eagerly followed him ; and such was the pleasure herreturn gave him, that he forgot his wealth whilst he caressedher, and promised her he would never part with her more tothe end of her or his life.Mi-. Fitzwarren told his wife and the captain that, in tbofirst knowledge of Whittington's amazing good fortune, he didnot dare to oppose either his humour or his wishes, lest all thocircumstances of his new condition should be too much for him to Ibear; but so soon as his mind recovered its firmness, he would duly ,regulate matters between them. He spoke highly of the merits „of both his head and his heart, and said he would pledge himself ■for his doing honour to himself, his country, and mankind, byrendering his wealth a blessing to multitudes; “ For,” continuedthis gentleman, “it is evident to me, the poor worthy fellowwill perform all the different parts assigned him by Providence, jon the great stage of human life, with first rate claims to ]applause; and that, however humble his entrance, his exit willbe glorious.Whittington soon rejoined them, dressed in his Sunday’sclothes, and a very smart well-looking youth he became, withlittle advantage from his warbrobe ; made his very best bow witha very good grace; took his seat, (happy, happy creature, ashis countenance bespoke him,) between his master and mistress ;being not only invited, but kindly commanded so to do, with 'his old friend, Mrs. Puss, purring at his feet; and dinnerbeing served up, except a blush or two of grateful diffidence andmodest sensibility, proved by his whole behaviour, he was atlength got into his real, right place.The next thing to this establishment of his happiness, higgreat concern was to reward every person that had been in¬dulgent or serviceable to him ; not forgetting the waggoner whobrought him to London ; or even the Cook herself, whose veryunkindness to him, he said, had wrought out his good fortune :for, had she not lodged him in the loft, he had never bought hiscat. And what obligations must he then be under to his younglady, who was particularly and immediately the cause of hissending her abroad! The cook, however, was never able tobehold him. from the ill treatment she had given him, withoutconfusion of both heart and face ; though he cheerfully andrepeatedly desired her to cease to remember what he had forgot,and to look upon him henceforward only as a friend.19To the captain, under Mr. Fitzwarren’s instruction, or ratherrestraining voice, (for Whittington’s gratitude knew no bounds,)he made a noble present. He rejoiced the heart of the wholeship’s crew by his bounty; and. in closing the lid of the jewelbox. sent as a part of the purchase of bis cat, which was of greatvalue, he wrote thereon, Miss Filzwarrcn, who received a nodfrom her father, not to contradict him at that time. “ And,my honoured madam,” said he to his mistress, ‘‘what token ofmy respect, my—my—feelings, (for his heart had not ancxpresssion equal to his wish,) can I offer you?” ‘‘Give meyour band,” replied that worthy woman, “let me have thepleasure of seeing you composed, for your present happiness istoo agitating for your spirits, and you will greatly oblige me.’’When sufficient time, in Mr. Fitzwarren’s opinion, hadelapsed, to render them all tranquil, and as he called it, rationalcreatures, he was first surprised, and next quite angry, atWhittington’s persisting to refuse the possession of his fortune,even at length to the degree of telling him he did not deserveit. Whittington defended his conduct with much address;“For, Sir,” said he, “I wish to bo independent; that is, tomake myself happy in my own way. What wealth Providencehas so miraculously given me, I know not how to dispose of, orenjoy; I must be broke in, Sir, to my good fortune, by degrees.What money is of my own getting, I shall know the value of—shall feel my own ; and, by habit, all the flutter of astonishment,which my heart is now unable to throw off, will graduallysubside: but to rush from the extremity of poverty intounbounded prosperity, believe me, Sir, I have no powers equalto sustaining the shock; and you must, therefore, either havethe goodness to save me from myself, or leave me to be undone.”There was so much good sense and worthy-mindedness in hisargument, that Mr. Fitzwarren was overcome. ‘‘I consent tobe your banker,” said he, “your guardian, so long as you chooseto call yourself a minor ; but shall rejoice to be informed, thatmy much-valued W'hittington is no longer a boy, and, of course,capable of acting for himself.”Whittington being now, as he called it, master of himself,withdrew from his friends to collect his thoughts, and begin tobe calmly happy. He recalled to his memory every moral andexcellent lesson his worthy deceased friend had given him.“Blessed spirit!” cried he, “the person to whom I owe mybirth are wholly unknown to me; but your tender compassionfor my orphan state, which flowed solely from the benevolenceof your heart; that guarded mo in my helpless infancy;watched over my growth ; and, above all, the manifold acts ofkindness, bestowed upon me; your anxiety and daily prayers20that my soul should prove upright, my life Useful to myself andothers, and my death happy : I feel myself unutterably indebtedto you ; nor shall they, to the best of my ability, be unfulfilled.Your good will for me, therefore, shall teach me universal goodwill for my fellow beings; your kind relief of my infantnecessities, make me acquire wealth as a steward for those whowant the means of subsistence; and your virtues, by mypractising them, give more glory to my name, than all thathonours and riches can bestow.”Accordingly Whittington soon started forth the man ofbusiness; and amongst the other money-getting methods hepursued, bought up in Leadenhall Market, all that was then,and is at this time, in Ireland called the offal—that is, theintestines of cattle; superintended their cleaning, until in a fitcondition to be exposed to sale for those ranks that were gladto make a cheap purchase, of however coarse food; and therefuse was sold for dogs’ and cats’ meat, with very considerableprofit. He moreover, according to Stowe, dealt largely in wool,cloth, leather, and pearls; much worn by the British ladies atthat time. Out of the returns of which, ho went about feedingthe hungry, clothing the naked, releasing the prisoner, andwiping the tears from the cheeks of the worthy distressed,wherever he found them. All his undertakings flourished inhis hands; and, in this fulness of self-obtained prosperity, Mr.Fitzwarren resolved to question him as to his true motive ofconduct, respecting the purchase-money for his cat: for Mr.Fitzwarren, as a kind father, was anxious to see his beloved andonly child the wife of an honest and valuable man.But poor Whittington was so careful to conceal his regard forMiss Fitzwarren, lest it should be thought presumptuous, andthereby deprive him of the friendship of a family he so highlyprized, that no one suspected such a thing; and his masterfrom delicacy, and the fear of laying a constraint on his gratefulfeelings, had never so much as hinted at the subject. “ Mybeloved fellow,” said he, however, to him one morning whenthey were quite by themselves, “ wherefore do you exclude mefrom a knowledge of what passes in your heart?—what its views—what its desires are:—as also why you, who are so active inmaking others happy, are so backward in promoting your ownhappiness?” Whittington sighed, cast his eyes on the ground,and from the high respect he bore his master, (as he would stilloften call him,) could only say, “ You, Sir, have a daughter.”Mr. Fitzwarren on the instant recollected many instances oftender attachment that, with all his caution, had escaped him ;and, being convinced that no young woman, whose affectionswere not engaged, could dislike either his person or his51i teliavlom*; whilst evefy worthy woman Must he charmed with: his goodness of heart, he caught him by the hand, and said,' “Bo it so:—let the name of father be added to the name ofI friend, and therefore make me completely happy. She is yours,I my Whittington, if with her own consent.” “ And without1 her own consent, I would die,” replied Whittington, “before I■ would receive her hand.” Miss and her mother were sent for,■ and never was there a party more endeared to each other. Mr.Fitzwarren called Whittington his son elect; Mrs. Fitzwarren,her dearest boy; and Miss Fitzwarren confessed she preferred: him to his whole sex.The humility of Mr. Whittington’s mind arising from astrong sense of his duty to society in general, prevented histemper from exhilarating into arrogance, petulance, or super¬ciliousness : though suddenly grown rich, and become equal tothe first merchants in the city, pride had no share in the changoof his circumstances.King Edward the Third being then at war, solicited a subsidy.In this scheme Mr. Whittington joined in £10,000, anastonishing sum in those days from one individual Whatcontributed much in favour of Whittington, was the exclusionof the Lombard merchants. These, and the Jews abroad, con¬ducted at that time the whole financial commerce of the Cityof London; but Mr. Whittington, upon their departure, camein for a considerable share of it.About this time the king demanded of the City of London toadvance him £4000, upon the poll-tax, and the Mayor, AdamStaple, proving backward in performing the same, he was by thoking turned out of that office, and Sir Richard Whittington22put into his place, to finish the year ; and this is tho firstmention of his being knighted, and of his great impoi Unce inthe city at that time, being only about ten years after hiscoming there.In 1377, the first year of King Richard II. he was called bysummons to the parliament. Thus we see Whittington, froma poor deserted and forlorn boy, conducting the concerns of thefirst and most renowned republic in any kingdom of the world;for so must the City of London be considered, governing itselfindependently by its own laws.Thus he grew in riches and fame the most considerable of thecitizens, greatly beloved by all, especially the poor, severalhundreds of whom he publicly or secretly assisted or supplied.About this time it was that he married his master’s daughter,Miss Fitzwarren; and at their wedding was present, amongother noble characters, tho Lord Mayor, Aldermen, <fcc.According to the banner, once existing in Guildhall, but sincedestroyed by the fire which consumed the city, Whittingtonserved bis first mayoralty in 1397. He was now near fortyyears of age, of a goodly form, and chosen into the office by hisfellow citizens, whose approbation of his conduct is a sound andsubstantial proof that he was a good, loyal, and patriotic man.His second mayoralty occurred in 110(3, in the reign of HenryIV. His third and last service of Mayer happened in 1419, in.Henry the Fifth’s time, in which situation he behaved with hisusual prudence. Though age had now taken off much of hisactivity, yet he was the most vigilant magistrate of his time.Soon after Lenvy’s conquest of France, Sir Richard entertainedhim and his queen at Guildhall, in such grand style, that hewas pleased to say, “Never prince had such a subjectandconferred upon him and some of the aldermen the honour ofknighthood.At this entertainment the king particularly praised the fire,which was made of choice wood, mixed with mace, cloves, andother spices; on which Sir Richard said, he would endeavourto make one still more agreeable to his majesty, and immediatelytore, and threw into the fire, the king’s bond for 10,000 marksdue to the company of mercers; 12,500 to tho chamber ofLondon; 12,000 to the mercers, staplers, goldsmiths, haber¬dashers, vintners, brewers, and bakers; 3000 marks each. “Allthese,” said Sir Richard, “with divers others lent for thepayment of your soldiers in France, I have taken in anddischarged to the amount of £60,000 sterling. Can yourmajesty desire to see such another sight?” The king andnobles were struck dumb with surprise at his wealth andliberality.£3Sir Richard spent the remainder of his days in honourableretirement at home, in his house in Grub-street, beloved byrich and poor. By his -wife he left two sons, some of whoseposterity are still worthy citizens. He built many charitablehouses, founded a church in Vintry Ward, Upper Thames-street, dedicated to St. Michael. Hero he built a vault, for thesepulchre of his father and mother-in-law, and the remainder ofthe Fitzwarren family, and where himself and wife lay after¬wards.In 1413, ho founded an alms-house and college, on College-hill ; which was afterwards suppressed by an order of councilin King Edward the Seventh’s time. And his alms housesremained till Late years, when they were pulled down, and anelegant gothic structure erected near the foot of Highgate-hill,at the entrance of the Tunnel-road : these are under thedirection of the Mercer’s Company, who allow each pensioner3s. 1 Od. per week.The executors of the will of Richard Whittington constitutedfive chaplains in his college founded in this church; which wereconfirmed by the king in the third of Henry VI.Sir Richard Whittington was three times buried, by hisexecutors, under a fair monument; then in the reign of EdwardVI., the parson of that church, thinking some great riches (ashe said) to be buried with him, caused his monument to bobroken, his body to be spoiled of his leaden sheet, and again thesecond time to be buried ; and in the reign of Queen Mary, theparishioners were forced to take him up to lap him in lead, asafore, to bury him a third time, and to place his monument, orthe like, over him again, which remained ; and so he rested,till the great fire of London, in 1666, violated his resting-placeagain.Sir Richard bnilt the gate and prison of Newgate as itformerly stood; gave large sums to Bartholomew’s Hospital;founded a library in Grey Friars; endowed Christ’s Hospitalwith a considerable sum; built Guildhall Chapel, and the eastend of the Hall.Dame Alice, his wife, died in the 63d year of her age; afterwhich he never remarried, though he outlived her near twentyyears. At last he died Lke the patriarch, full of age andhonour, leaving a good name to posterity.HISTORIES, RELIGIOUS TRACTS, SOKG BOOKS, &ciPrice ONE PENNY each.SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.MISCELLANEOUS.1. The Anecdote Book.2. The Scrap Book.S. The Story Teller.4. The Book of Fate.5. The Fortune Teller.'6. The Dream Interpreter.7. The Way to Wealth.8. The Medical Guide.9 The Family Receipt Book.10. The Sentimental Reciter.11. The Comic Reciter.12. The Letter Writer.13. The Valentine Writer, Love.14. — — Comic.15. Fireside Amusements.16. Outdoor Amusements.17. The Maid Servant’s Guide.18. The Art of Preserving Health.19. Domestic Cookery.20. The Magic Oracle.21. Life of Ambrose Gwinnett.22. Readings for Winter Evenings.23. Popular Irish Stories.24. Irish Tales and Legends.25. Life of Louis Philippe.26. Life of Sir Robert Peel.27. Life of the Duke of Wellington.28. Life of Napoleon.29. The Spectre Bridegroom, &c.30. Amusing Irish Stories.31. The Exiles of Siberia.32. Life of Rob Roy.33. Toast Master’s Companion.34. Life of Robin Hood, with cuts.50. Life of Robert Burns.36. Life of Sir William Wallace.37. Life of Robert Bruce.38. History of Prince Charles Stuart39. Paul and Virginia.40. Robinson Crusoe, with cuts.41. Sindbad the Sailor, with cuts.42. Blue Beard, with cuts.43. Whittington and his Cat, with cuts.,44. Sovereigns of Gt. Britain,zciVA cutsj,'45. Cinderella, with cuts.46. Jack the Giant Killer, with cuts. .47. The Yellow Dwarf, with cuts.48. The Sleeping Beauty, with cuts.49. The Universal Riddler, with cuts,-#0. The Little Deserter, with cuts.51. The Babes in the Wood, with cuts.52. The Pictorial Alphabet, with cuts.'53. ASsop’s Fables, with cuts.54. Ganes and Amusements, with cuts.55. The New Year’s Gift, with cuts.56. The Poetical Alphabet, with cuts. ■57. Barbauld’s Lessons, with cuts.58. Ali Baba, or the 40 Thieves, cuts.:59. Alladin, or the Wondf. Lamp. cuts.60. The Life of Lord Nelson.61. The Small Preceptor.62. The Child’s AssistantHSX.XGZ01TS.81. The Juvenile Prayer Book.82. The Private Prayer Book.S3. The Family Prayer Book.84. The History of the Jews.85. The Destruction of Jerusalem.86. Religious Anecdotes.87. Scripture Stories.88. Sketch of all Religions.89. History of the Bible, with cuts.90. The Life of Christ.91. The Life of St. Paul.92. The Life of John Knox.93. The Life of Dr. Chalmers. |;94. Watts’s Divine Songs, with cuts. .95. Sacred History.96. Joseph and his Brethren.97. Histoiy of Moses.98. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.99. Lives of the Apostles.100. The Pilgrim’s Progress, icith cuts.:101. The Shorter Catechism.102. The Mother’s Catechism.SONGS. *1. The Scottish Minstrel, 1st scries.2. — — 2d —3. — — 3d —4. — — 4th —5. — — 5th —6. — — 6th —7. The English Minstrel, 1st —8. — — 2d —9. — — 3d —10. — — 4th —11. — — 5th —12. — — 6th —Others in Preparation,13. The Irish Minstrel, 1st scries.14. - - 2d -15. — _ 3d —16. — — 4th —17. The Comic Minstrel, 1st —18. — — 2d —19. - _ 3d -20. — — 4th —21. — _ 5th —22. — — 6th —23. The Negro Minstrel, 1st —24. — — 2d —