■ MDragoon and Peggy» TO WHICH ARS ADDBD,The Swain tkiDn’d for Love and Mi’B•wO’ER THE MOOR TO MAGTHE GENTEROUS GENTLEMAN’.A GOOD H I N T.G L A R O O W,PRINTEP BY r & f4 ROBERTSON,SALTMA RK ETf 1802.( a )The DRAGOON and PEGGY.TH E firfl- time that I did thee fee,it was in Aberdeen Peggy,O meek and love 1? was thy face.and doufe grey was thy ecn Peggy;With ftockings green and coa* bjack (boon,as yoa wa’k en the Hreet Peggy ;And your behayiour day and night,does daily me invite Peggy.I firft did aik where you did dwell,and then l aik‘d your name PeggyAnd though the night were ne'er fae dark,I will go fee yea Iiakic Pegpy.My father heV a iaird, a laird,he is a hurd of land Peggy,And I myfeif a brilk dragcco,fL'i in ail our command Peggy.My father he's a lord, a lord,he is a lord of ftate Peggy,Tour friends may cot be difeintent,though you walk with me late Peggy,put when (hail we two meet again ?- when now k's grown fo late Peggy ? .To morrow u;ght at ten o'clock,Pll miet ycu at the gate .Villy.Although the night were ne’er fo dark,and dinging on of rain Willy,Tou need not teat you'll want a bed,jeuU get a fhare of mine Willy,With Wanhets bra’ ani Oieets fae fma*,* I wat I’ll mak it Sr e Willy *And you (hall get to your (upper,a cup of c^rct wine Willy. -And HI throw all my gown of black,put on a gown of green Wi’ly,Then you and I y.dl take a walkwith the light of the moon'Willy:Bui if my miftrefs chance to f-e.right angry wad (he he Willy,That l would introduce myfeifinto your company Wiily.»For well {he’ll ken by your clothing,you are a ftour dragoon Willy iThen /he’ll be lor to put me off,* like any common lown Willy.My (ward and buckler HI cad off,.hangs low down by nay thigh Peggy,And when I come in fuk to theemy clothing (hall be blue Peggy.There’s one thing 1 do afk of thee,although it be through force Peggy $There’s one thing l do a£k of thee,to fee me to my horfe Peggy.O l will fee you to your herte.bra my heart will be fair Willy,O I »will fee you to your horfe.but ne’er will fee you nnir Willy,For in the /ky'ther.e I did fpy,.a comet that was bar Willy,It appear’d fo high into ijfic Iky,it itght’oet? a* the air Viiiy.O clot k-work is a curiou* work,diverting is the beli Wiliy.S*ra like a drop fall’n to the ground,but fine gold is yourfeli rthily.O will you go along with me,and bc/o me a Wifi* Peggy ?I’ll make a vo'w and keep it tree jyou'll live an eafy life Peggy.If I (hould go along with youand be to thee a wife Willy,O all your ft lends wad me diidaiu,and that wid enufe a ftrife. Willy.But if 1 we.e in Flanders fJr.beyond Sr. Andrew's fea Peggy*5'd cve< keep a Angle heart.and keep my love tor thee Peggy.I'll daily deck vot?,r yeilow fnir,with pomet and with oi! Peggy,Ten'll wear the ribbons red and white,when you go to Carlide Peggy.1*11 buy to you a clock of b!uevthe heft id a’ the tewa PcgVy,With J. S, and O. S and July flow’rSvrich diannoods on vour gown Peggy.O O! fy is a bonny place.and there is many a tree Peggy*And there vou'U have your )pinturc«k3'jfs,and a’ your laud te free Peggy.(.5 )But a fight of you is more to rr.s,than all the flaw’i's in time Peggy >IThen all the flow’rs of Olify,.when they are in their prime Peggy:I'Tue Highland hills a^c very high,and O they’re i;l to chmb Willy,But I will go along with yon,i caona (fay behind Willy.Let ne’er your confcicnr.e you beguile,cr mouey you enfnaie Willy,But ever keep a fuv je heart,for thaPs true love and rare Villy.INow Willy he has married herand made her his own Peggy $And they do live a Inppy life,arid /he’s a gallant Lady.The Swain dengn’d for Love and Me.Ttend ye nymphs while t impart,_ lae fecret withes of my heart;nd tell what fwain, if one there be,Whom Fate deligns for Love and Me.Let reafon o'er his thoughts pre/ide,In honour all his actions guide jtSttdfaft in rlnpe let hint be.The (wain dcfign’d for Love and Me.Let folic! fcafe inform bis mind,jWith pare good nature fweetly join’d ;Sure irievid to modeft merit be,the Twain d rfign’d for Love and Me,/ ( 6 )Where forrow promp's the penlive fjgh*Where grief hcc^cw ;he dropping eye.Melting in fympathy 1 fee.The fwain defigo d tor L.-ve and -Me. jLet fordid avarice claim no part.Within his tender generous heart:O be that heart from faKho'od ftee.Devoted ail to Love and Vie.O’er the M O O R to M A GGY.AN I> I’ll o’er the moor to Mnggy,her wit and fweetnefs call me.Then to the fair I’ll Ihow my mind,whatever may befal me.If Ihe loves mirth, i'll learn to fing ;or likes the Nine to follow.IT1 lay rav lugs in Find as* fpring,and invocate Apollo.If {he admire a martial mind.I'll (heath my limbs in armour;If to the fofter dance inclin’d,with gay eft airs I’ll charm her*:If (he love grandeur, day and night,INI plot my nation’s glory,Find favour in my Prince’s fight,. and thine in future ftory.Beauty can wonders work with cafe,where wit is correfponding jAnd braved men know bed top cafe,with complaifance abounding. »'( 7 )i My bonsy Maggy’s love can turnme to what fhape (hr pleases,If in her bresfl that flame lhail burn,which iu my b'ofom blazesTHE GENEROUS viEN TLEMaN,74 -i I came in bv riviot-fideacd bv the braes of Br. ^kfome,There fi'ft I taw my bonny brideyoung fmilby, fweet and bandfome JI'Her ikin wes fafttr than the down,a'c4 white as alabafl er 5ill Her hair a finning wavy brown ;in Itraightnefs nane far pall her.il Love glow’d upon her lip and cheek,her clear ecu were furprifing,6 And beamifntly turn'd her neck,her little breafts jiiR rifi.-g :^ Hue fitken hole, with gulhets fine,or (boon with glancing laces| On her fair leg, fovbad to (bine,well lhapeu oativc greets.!) Ae Ih»le coat, and bodice white,wasTuiu of a’ her claithing j‘3 Even thae’s o’er mcikle ;—rnair delyte1 the’d given cied wi* naithiog:1 She lead’d upon a flowery brae,by which a burny trotted ;On her i glowr'd my Isui away.While on her Iwocte l doareclIt( 8 >A lUoufiitid beauties ol- ccrzitbt tore LaJ f'caree alarmed ms.'Till tl,i.- J.ijar . rtlefs ftruck my heart,and bm dtfig»iRs?. chariu^d rue.Hurry’d by lov- c’oie to mv br- aft,l grac'd thi^ fund of bi.fles tVt'ha fuui'd, and fa d. Without a pneft,fir, b' i e for coogiil but kilTeu.1 bad can heart to do her hann,and vet i ccu’tiua want htt-Vv'h'J? fiie demanded, iika charmof her's pfed,. I fhohld gtaot her.SFfnce Braven had dealt to me a rowth,fir sight to the kirk l led her,There plighted her my fakh and tiowth,and a yourg Isdj made her.A GOOD HINT.A Fox may deal jour hens. Sir,^ A whore your health and pence,Your daughter rob j our chcfi. Sir,Ycur wile uny Ileal your reft, Sir,A thief’ your goods and plate.But this is ail but picking,With reft, pence, cheft, and chicken:Jt ever was decreed, Sir,ff lawyr.s’s hand is feed, Sm,-He fteels you.' whole eifafmSir,(i L A 3 G O W,Printed by J. 5; M. Robtrtfon, SalUnarket, 1608..