FAIRY TALES,CONTAININGThe Stories of Cinderiila,OR, THELittle Glass Slipper;LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD*Princess Fair-star and Prince Cherry,ANDEBOULI SINTO WHICH IS ADDED,THE FAIRY SONG2THESTORY of CINDERILLA.;OB, THE %Little GLASS SLIPPER.,/f"\NCE there was a genth-man, who married forhis fecond wifev the proudeft and moft haughtywoman that ever was teen. She had ^by her for¬mer hufband, two daughters, but of her own hu¬mour, who were indeed exa&ly like her in allthings. He hid, likewife, by another wife, ayoung daughter of an unparalleled goodnefs andfweetnefs of temper, which (he took from her mo¬ther, who was the heft creature in the world.No fooner were the ceremonies of the weddingover, but thfe mother-irv law began to (hew herfelfin her colours. She could not bear the good qua¬lities of this pretty girl, and the lefs, becaufe fhemade her daughters appesr the more odious. Sheemployed her in the mcaneR work of the boufe;file fcoured the dilhes, tables, and rubbedmadam’s chamber and thofe of the miftcs herdaughters; (he lay up in a vary forry garret, up¬on a wretched ftraw bed, while her fillers lay infme rooms, with floors all inlaid, upon bed* ofthe very ncweft fsftiion. Her books were theofily companions flie had, and when her fillerswent out, (he ufed to take the opportunity ofreading theirs ,The poor girl bore all patiently, and dared notto tell her father, who would have rattled hermTf for his wife governed him entirely. When/Ti;e had do«s her work flic ufed to j;o iuto thechimney-corner, and fit down among the cindersand afkes, which made her commonly be calledCinder-breech; but the youngeft, who was notfo rude and uncivil as the eldeft, called her Cin-derilla. However, Cinderilla not-vithftanding he:mean apparel, wos an hundred times fcandfomeithan cither of her fifteis, tho’ they were alwaysdrefTed very richly.It happened that the king's fon gave a bai:,and invited all perfons of faftuon to it; ouryoung rciffes were alfo invited; for they cut avery grand figure among the quality. They weremightily delighted at this invitation, and won¬derfully bufy in chafing out fach gowns, petti¬coats, and head-clothes, as might belt becomethem. This was a new trouble to CinderiiU; forit was (he who ironed her lifters linen, and clear-ftarched their ruffles; they talked all day long o:nothing, but how they Ihould be dreft, and werecontinually looking in their glaflesForrsy part, faid the deleft, 1 will wear my redvelvet fuit with French trimmings. And I, faidthe.youngeft, lhall only have m* ufual petticoat;but then, te make amends for that, I will put enmy gold flowered mamuaj and my diamond lio-inacher, which is far from being the me ft ordinaryone in the world. They font for the belt tirewo¬men they could get, to make up their head-dseflss,and acijaft their double pinners, and had their redbruihes and jiatchei Ironi Madajaoifella De laTouche.Cinderilla was likewife called i n to be confult-ed in all thofe matters, for flie had excellent no¬tions, an] advifed them always for the beft; cay-.and offered her fervicc to drefs their heads v. !:i :they Were Very willing the flioulci <Io. At fhe wmdoing this, they faid to her Cinslsrilla, Would ysunot be glad to go to the ball ? Ah l faid fhe, ,ouonly jeer me, it is not for fuch as l am to go tobaits. Thau art in the right of it, replied they ;it eould make the people laugh to fee a Ginder-breech at a ball. Any one but Cinderilla wouldhave drefTed their heads awry ; but <he w;a verygoed and dreffed thett perfeSly well. They werealmoft two. days without eating, fo much, werethey tranfported with joy; they broke a dozen oflaces, in trying to be laced up cfek, that, theymight have a fine flender fhape.At laft the happy dar came, they went to court,and Cinderilla followed them with her eyes tsleng as fhe could, and when fhe had loft fight ofth»m. ftie fell a crying.Her gad-mother, who faw her all in tears .slic¬ed her what was the matter? I wifli I could 1wilh I could. ’She was nat able to fpeak the reft,being interrupted by her tears and fobbing, fhis^ god-mothtr of her’s, who was a fairy, faid to her,Thou wiftieft thou coufdeft go to the ball? is it. not fo r Y-es, cried Cinderilla, with a great ligh.Well faid her godmother, be but a good girl, andJ wiS contrive that thou fliak go ; run into thegarden, and bring me a pompion. Cinderilla wmtimmediately, gathered the fineft fhe could get andbrought it to her godmother; but was not ableimagine how this pompion could make her go tothe ball Her goi-mothes fcooped out all the in.fide, of it, leaving nothing but the rind; whichdone, fhe ftruck it with her wand, and the pompionwas inftantly turned into a fine coach, gilt all overwith gold.STie then went to lock into her mettfe-trap*where (lie found fix mice all alive, and orderedCinderilla to lift up the trap-door a little, whengiving each moufe, as it went out, a little tapWith h'er wand, the mice were that moment turn¬ed into hdrfes, which altogether made a very finefet of fix horfesj of a beautiful jet black. See herethe reward for every good girl and boy.Being at a lofs1 for a coachman, I will go andfee, fays Ginderilla, if there be ever a rat in therat-trap; we m*y meke a coachman of him. Thouart in the right, replied her god-mother, go andlook. Cinderilla brought the trap to her, and init were three huge rats. The fairy made choiceof one of the three which had the larged beard,and having touched him with her wand, he wasinftantly turned into a fat jolly coachman, with apair of the fmartefl and moft beautiful whifkersthat eye* ever beheld.• After that, (he laid to Cinderilla, Go again'intothe garden, ard’you will find fix lizards behindthe watering pot, bring them to roe. She had nofooner done it, than her god mother tarriSd' theminto nx beautiful well drefled footman, vMfe {kip¬ped up immediately behind‘ cbe tkach, vtitfe xhetrclothes all trimmed with gold and frlv^ dnd clunga» dole behind each other, «s if theV'htV.; fiond ba¬thing eliV all their whole lives. The Fairy thenfaid to Ctnderilia, Well, you iee'hefexm equipagefit to go to the ball? are' you not pke'-c with it?O yea! cried fne; I am extremely We‘.r pfetdedwith it; but maft l go thither as l at-V in thefenafly poifonecl ragf,? Her god-mother only touch¬ed her with her wand, and at the Tan'ie inltant, 'her clothes were turhed into cloth of gold and{liver, bedecked with the richeft jewels that ever.6were leen in any prince’s retinue, in the n holeworld. This done, the gave her a pair of glafsflippers, which for beauty and elegance, far fur-paflecl any thing of the kind ever feen before.Being thus drefled out, flie got up into thecoach; but her god-mother above all things com-tn^taded her not to flay till after midnight, tellingher at the fame time, if (he ftaid at the ball anylonger than twelve o’clock, her coach would be apampiGn again, her horfes mice, her coachman arat, her footmen lizards, and her clothes becomejuft as they were beforeShs promifed her god-mother fne would not failof leaving the ball before it was midnightj andthen away fhe drove, fcarce able to contain her*Self for joy. The King’s fon, who was told that agreat princefs whom nobody knew was come, ranoat to receive her ; he gave her his hand as (heKghUd out of the coach, and led her into the^oom among ail the company, i here was imme¬diately a profound Silence; they left off dancingand the violins cejded to play; lb attentive wasevery one to contemplate the Singular beauty ofthis unknown new-comer. Nothing y/as thenheard, but a confufed noife of Hal how handfotne(he isl how handfome (he is! the King himfelf0t>ultl not help telling the Queen foftly, That itwas o long time fipce he had feen So beautiful andlovely a creature A.11 the ladies were bufy inconfidering her clothes and head-drefs, that theymight have Some made the next day after thefame pattern, provided they could meet with Suchfine materials and as able hands to make them.The King's fon conduced her to the rooft honour¬able feat, and afterward* took her out to dancewith him; file danced fp very gracefully, that theyall more and more admired her. A fise collatioiiwas ferved up, whereof the young prince ate nota morfei, fo intently was he bufy in gazing on her.£he went and fat down by "her fitters, ftewingthem a thoofand civilities, giving them a part ofthe oranges and citrons which the prince had pre¬fer: ted her with; which very much furprifedthem, for they did not know her- While Cinder-ilia was thus arfiufing Jher fitters, (he heard theclock ttrike eleven and three quarters; whereuponfte immediately made a courtefy, end hatted awayas faft as (lie could.Being got home, (he ran ta Teek out her god¬mother; and after having thanked her, fte faidfhe coaid not but heartily wifk (lie might go nextday to the ball, becaufe the king’s fon had defired,her. As (lie was eagerly telling bet god motherwhatever patted at the ball, her two fitters knock ¬ed at the door, which Cihdevitta ran and opened.How long you have ft&yed, cried (he, gaping, rub¬bing her eyes, and ftretching he.felF, as if (he had. been juft awaked out of her deep: She had nothowever, any manner of inclination to tltep fincethey went from home, if thou hadft been at theball, (aid her ffUr*, ihou'wouldeft not have beentired with it; there came thither the fmeft prin-cefs, the mett beautiful ever feen wuh mortaleyes; Ihe fiiewtd us a thoufand civilities; andgave us oranges and citrons. Cinderilla teemedvery indifferent in the matter; indeed (lie afkedthe name of that princefs; but they told her,they did not know it; and that the king’s fonwas very uneafy-on her account, and v.’ould giveall the world to know where fte was. At thisCinderilla fmiling, replied, (he mutt then be verybeautiful indeed. Ble's me i How happy you have|8 •i.veeijt GouVl I cot-^ec;her? Ah ! dear.Miu Char-iotte, (io krid mo your yellow I'uit of clotheswhich you wear every day: Ah I to be .fare,cries.Miib Charlotte, fend my clothes to fuch avirty Cioder-’oretclj as thou art,' who’s the fool .i-hen? Cinderilla iudeed expefted forae fuch an.iVer; and-v/aa very glad of the refufal ; for flieivou-ld have been iadiy put to it, if her filler hadlent, her in earrt ft, v/hat flie afited for jdttngly.The next day the two fillers were at the ball;and fj was Cinderilla, but drefied piore magnifi¬cently than before. The king’s ton was always byher, and never ccafvd his compliments and atfior-cus fpeechts to' her; to whom all this was fo farfrom being tirefotne, that file quite forgot whather godmother had recommended to her; iV thatfhe at laft counted the clock; firikin^ twelve, whenfire took it to be no more than-eleven ; lhe thenrole up and fled as nimbly as a deer. Tire princefollowed, but could not overtake her; flie left be¬hind one of her glut's flippers, fellow to that {he1dropped. The guards at the palace were alked.If they had not feen a princefs go out ? who laid.They.had feen nobody go out, but a young girl,very meanly, dreft, who had more the air of a poorcouutry gill, than a gentleyrotasn.When the two fillers returnfd from the bfll,Cinderilla aiked them, if they had been well di¬verted* and if ih£ fine lady had been there ? :Theylaid her, yts, but that file hurried away imme¬diately when it llruck twelve, and with fo muchthat file dropped one of her little glais flip¬pers, the prut tie A in the world, and which theking's for. had taken up; that he.had done nothingbut looked at her all the atima of the ball, andtfetctrtainly he was very much Li love, with thebeaot’fol perfcn who owncu ti c little glafs-fiip-per..What they faid xvas very true ; f^r a few da «r.fter, the king’* f.n ciui'ed it to be proclsitred,by found of trumpet, that he would merry her,,v/hofe foot that flipper wottkl juft fit. They whomhe employed, began to try* it upon the princeffe*,then the dutchefles, and ell the court, but invain; it was then brought to the two fillers, whodid all they poffibly could to thruft o foot into theflipper, but they could not effefl it-. Cinderilia.who faw all this, and knew her flipper, faid tothem laughing, Let me .fee if it will not fit me ?Her fillers burft out a laughing, and began to ban¬ter. . The gentleman who was fent to try theflipper, looked earneSly to Ginderilla, and findingher Very handfome, laid, It was bwt jnjd that (hefliou-'d try, and that he had orders to let everyone make trial.He obliged Cindeftlia to fit down, and; pullingthe flipper to her foot, he found it %ent on veryeafily, and fitted her as if it had been made; o-wax. The amazement her two fibers 4\vere in,Was excelTively great, but ftiil abundantly greater,when Cindc-rilla pulled out 'of her p; eket the otherflipper, and put it on her foot. Thereupon i,.came her gpd-mothei , who having touched withher wand, Ciudetilia’s doihes, made them richer,and more magnificent than any oi thofe (he. had.before. <V7hen her two fibers found her, to be the bfeau-t’rul lady they bad feen bc&iie at the ball,, theythrew themfelves at her feet, and begged pardonher the ill treatment they bed made her undergo.Cmderijk took them up, and as file , embreccu\ Jv.them faid,-That (he forgave tjMm' with all her•heart, and Jtfired them always to love her.She was ccndu&ed to the young prtr-ce, whomarried - her. Cinderilla, who was no lefs ’gocc.than beautiful, gave her two fillers lodgings inthe palace, and that fame day matched them withtwo great lords of the eours..THESTORYOF -LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.ONCE upon a time there lived in a Certain vil¬lage, a little girl, the prettiefl creature that* ver was feen; loved and admired by all, not onein the village could compare with her. Her mo¬ther was fond of her to a great degree,, and hergrandmother much more fo ; and w ell they might,line was fo good natured, fo fwert tempered, andTo ready to oblige; and befides, never miffed herprayers twice or thrice a day fot her mother,grand-mother, and *11 her relations, anti everybody elfe fhe could think of. It being cold wea¬ther, her grand-mother had a little red riding-hood made for her, to keep her warm, and fiielooked fo very pretty and pleafint when fhe had iton, that by every body (lie foon gained the nameof Little Red Riding-Hood.Her mother came one day. knowing that hergrand-mother .was Uls; and having made feme cuf-tarda and clieefe-cakes, called her, and find,little Biddy, (for that was her name) go and feeyour grand-mother, and take alfo with you fomeeudiards and cheefe-cakes, and this pot of butter.The little red riding-hood was foon put on, andout (lie fets to fee her grand-mothers who youmutt obferve, lived at another village through awood.When flic came to the farther end of the wood,{he was met by gottip Wolf, who. being a verycruel creature, had a mind to rat her up, but asfotne faggot men were at work in the Foreft, hedid not dare to it; but by bis deceitful fpeechestried another way to deftroy her, and like a trea-cherou* knave, aflced her where fas was going foearly ?Iha pretty innocents child, who thought noham herfdf, and did not know whot bad companyihs had fallen into difcouvfe with, faid, l am go¬ing to my grand-mother, who is not well, with acuftard and c little pot of butter which my motherfends her. At which the cunning wolf elks if fliclived far off?A great way, below yonder mill (pointing withher little white finger) in the village you fee yon¬der. ,Well, faid the dcfigning Wolf, I Will go fc:-her too; but I will go the other way, do you gothat; I will be there as foon a*you. So the litjivgirl went;, through the meadows, gatlwrcv. cow.{lips and violets ■, to make her grand-mother’s win¬dows fwett. and fine: for it was in the month o'Mao, when thofc- flowers were in their primeInie Wolf, who knew the nearett way, wwent much fatter.than the child, was not long, be¬fore he got to the grand-mot he r’a houi’e ; \vl:ti l;«% • „cra.-v h th’c old utrrk.tu Y-iiidilv, i«jd :Iv{? VVolf, (\v kr.lU'e. . c • H3u?s vci eos nr': h rs i.r ]) , . ■ _ ...cdRurd ‘a- d' a little p vt. rf batter v.-hich afeftberhss lent yen:* T o grrr-jri^thsr, who was ill, andTivfced, .bid bet pul; the’^atah,-arsd.thff doer wouldopen., fo the Wolf pnlkd the lutcn, WeiV; into theroom,, and with his great teeth and ravenous ap.petite, dben the poor eld woman entirely up,(for \ ci\ n5u!t •urder'.fehd he was very Iharj/ fee,having had nothing to eats for t hree or 1ouv cayshdo e.) ?Jt6r he had eater*' cp the grand-mother,he like a cunning viHain, ''thought ’fcbw be mightceccivft L:*tle lUJ Kidirg-Hoody anti devour' heraifo :>o he fliut* too the door very clofe again, ■and mils hijttfeif into the ;*randmcthen’s bsd, be-caufe fee was lure Little Red Riding’tiood wouldfoon he themii lictie while after fhe came, and knocked, atth«--door, toe, toe. Who is-there ? quoth t!*e trea¬cherous wolfr The little harmlels Red Riding-Hood hearing fo gruff a voice (though he hsd -ciU'.ferthled as much as he could) was efreid at firft ;however not knod htg-but her .graad-mother mighthave tak en a great cold, and fo be very roarfc, Ihefaid, It is your grand-djBUibter Biddy, and l havebrought you feme ctiftard and a little pot of but¬ter, my mamma fent me with to you. I he. Wolf-enfwcrS her in as foftla voice as be could, Lift upthe latch and the door will open; which:{be did,and coming to the bed fide, the perfidious wolf, -hiding his uyly fasad under the clothes, and fpeak-ing in a faint tone, laid, Put the Cuftard and but¬ter on the'liool, and come into bed, for I am verycold.. ‘Oi> c good nature nnd kind.temper-oc w-U;- Avv«Ritihig-Hcod rnac'.s it not long before (lie o'-.'ycdti e command's of her gn tti-'xvoiher, opdreflbd her-felf, -and went into btd; but was tail)' frighted ither grand mamma's long ear». whio'.idtave l overher .night cap. So fad the. child; -to her. (feelingher.arms) IHtfs me I grand-mamma, what great-firms you have got i They are the tetter to em-hrrce thee, my pretty child. Grand-mamma, whatgreat and Grange le^s you have got! They.arethe better to run, mycliild. Grand-mamma, whatlong and great ear* you luve got l They are thebetter to hear my chid. Grand whatgreat' eyes and long teeih you have gotl Theyare the better to lee y ou, and to eat you up.And ?c foon asdie had faid ^hefa words, this wick¬ed Wolf flew upon poor Little Red Ridi;;g-iicod,-and ate her up.THEST O R VorPRIKCF.Sd FATRSi \R' AKBPRINCE CHERRY,.TpHERE was a Princtfs, wl-v having gone thro*ftveral misfortunes, ha! nothing left of allher peft grandeur. -She took a pretty Jiule kou.’eT4nigh a great city, and m*de the bed Frtcafees andragouts imaginable, infomuch, that (he had a con-fidsrable trade.One day there came a little woman to herhoufe. i am come laid Ih* to the Frincefs, tomake a good meal before I die, that I may brag Ihave had one-. \ , the princefs had at tliat timeher hands fully employed, Ihe called dotvm herthree daughters, whole names were Roufetta, Bru-nett*, and Blondina, but the youngelt was thehandlomsft and belt naturea. The daughters foonfet before the old woman a very good dinner,which Use ate with an extraordinary appetite.When Hie had done, Ihe rofe up faying. Honedfriends, had I any money I would pay you; but £have been poor thefe many years and wanted fokind an entertainment ss you have given me;however, allure yourfelves, the firft with youmake without thinking of me, drill be completed.Then due went away leaving them fome reafohsto think her a fairy. .One day tiie king going *.hunting Ycfolved tocall at the houfr, to lee if the Princefs was a?' notable a cook as die was reported to be. Thethfi©- lifters wefe in the garden gathering draw-*berries, when he patT-d by. Ah! laid Rofettr.was 1 lo hapjiy as to marry the admiral, I boaittliat I covftd fpin thread enough to make fails forhis whole navy. And I, laid Brhnetta, was. myfortune fo good that I Ihould many the King’sbrother, I wou’d work lace enough with my needleto hong bis palace And I faiu, Blondina, wouldthe King have mo. I boaR at the end of ninemonths, to bring ’ • .1 forth two fine boys and agirl, with ftarTin their foreheads, and chains ofgold about their necks, from whole hair, hanging~oa ctJHC-f;s rmga.* {liottld drop vat&able jewels--Or.e of the king's favourites overhearing the dii-courfe, went and informed the king thereof, vihoordered them ao com* to him, and being charmedwith the modefly of Idondir.a, he refolved tomarry her: As did his brother, and the admiroi,the other two. Bat when the queen.mother whowas the moS cruel cf all women, heard that theking and. princr were married to two gihls of ob-feu re birth, fits flew into fueh a paflion, as fright¬ened the whole court.The fair queen and the princefs were united bya Ariel friendfhip, but llofetta envied them fortheir good fortune; which made her enter into’all the queen mother’s meafurcs who only waitedfn opportunity to do Brunetta and Blondina, nH. the mifehief flie could. I be queen and priheefaboth proved with child, but by ill fortune a wari happened which obliged the ktntr to put himfelfat the head of his troops: fo taking leave of his.ipouie with great tendemefs, he departed.Whilft the king was at the wars, the queen wasbrought to bed of two boys and a girls, **ith liarsin their foreheads, »nd chains of gold about :heirnecks, as wjs the princei's the fame day of a beau¬tiful boy; but Brnnetta died in the birth. Rou-fetta’s thoughts were wholly employed how to in¬jure the queen; and feeing fuch charming chil¬dren, and "that {he herielf had none her rage en-cre Jed, and flic refolred to fpeak with the queen-mother. 1 hare faid flie, to her, a'little bitchthat has jufl: pupped two dogs and s bitch, *ithflars on their forehead & rings about their necks.We muft make the queen believe, fhe has been•deliverid of thefe creature*, kind make away witht-5her three children, r.r.d th-et o'.' the pvir.eefs de*jceafed. This projeft was approved by the inlui-man queen- n\other, -who ordered 1?eirtifa,.one pi, •her mauls o£ honour, to fetch the r.helps, are. ■drefs them in as fine linen and laces as the queen's, !children fliouMjjhe, and put them into the cradles;as for the poor queen, (he. had like to die millsgrief, on feeing the whole litter of whelps He byher, not knowing that the old queen had ordered hheintifa to take the four children ejnd ftranglc |'them, but juft as (he was going, to execute thatfatsi cpmmilTujn, feeing the ftars in their fore¬heads, which (he theught might portend fomethingextraordinary, durft not 'la^ criminal hands onthem,, but put them into tiivir cradHs on,board alittle boat, ncd »ith foine jewels committed themto the mercy of the fea:.The King, v/hofe thoughts were^ always 6u 5.:sdear Spoule.. having concluded a truce for 'L-metime, returned with ait -fpecd horn:, and arrivedabout tvelv* l ours rfter her deltyery ; but whenhe heard.ihe.was,delivered of wn«lps, he orderedboth them and her to be put into a litter, andfent home to her mother's, wlrere lire arrived ai¬med .dead.But Heaven looked with a more favourable eyeover the Princes and Priucei's ; fo after floatingout to fea, they were. taken up by a Gorfair, who .being touched with the beauty of there children,qijd having hone of his own, turned "back, andgave them to.his wre, to be educated and broughtup as their own; but they were not a little fur-ptifed, when ti-ev came to comb them, to feejewel* and diar <oi.ds fall cut:of their hair. -ThoiViacefs -they ca'led -b'air-ftar, t-.ie elddi brothertirigkt iun, toe feoond ion Felix, and the Prin-ceis’s fon Cherry.They lived with the Corfair and his wife tillthey grew ujh when they exprefl'ed i great defireto travel; the Corfair agreed to their requeft,and tiiejr fet out altogether, and travelled till theywithout knowing it, came to the very place cftheir nativity.The news of the arrival of four fuch extraor-dinaff peribnages, foon reached the ears of thequeen-mother; who collcfling the circumftancesof the flars and chain*, of gold, was ftruck withamazement, and retiring to her elcfet fent forFeir.tife, who coming half dead with fear, cafeherfeff at her feet, told her all ihe had done, andpromifed to deftroy them.Accordingly file -went to their houfe, andi>cir,gintroduced to Fair-ftsr, complimented her on herbeauty, but told her file wanted one thing quiteneceflary, and that was the dancing water, v/hichhad the power of making every one handlome »othe greatell degree that was pofiefled of it, andadded, it was no w here to be got but in the burn¬ing foreft.Cherry, when he went home from hunting, ob-ferved Fair-ftar to be iorrowful, and asking herthe reafon,,{he told him. Cherry, who loved hergreatly, took no further notice of the affair; butwhile hi* fitbr wa» bufy, mounted his horfe androde r-w*y.He travelled till he caine to the top of a hill,and being faint with the heat of the burning foreit,hopped at a rivulet to' drink, when he had donedcinkipg, he perceived a turtle drowning, andtaking pity on it, and having wiped the feathers,put it in his bqfom, where it recovered.i8Prince, faid the turtle, this is not the firft time2 have received Ggnal favours from your family.T haye it in my power to reward you: follow <s.e.Cherry did fo till he come to the mouth of a vault,then jumped off his horfe, and the turtle conduft*ed him to the fountain; he immediately filled avefiel he brought, and pulled two hearty draughts,which made h.m ten times handforoer than he wasbefore; fo mounting his horfe, returned home,carrying ibme ef the water with him to his filler.The relllefs Fcintifa knew by her fpies thatCherry was returned, and that he and his filter,by wafiiing themfelves in the dancing water, weremore beautiful than ever. However, (lie con¬trived to fee Faiivftar again; and congratulatedher on Cherry’s fuccefsi but told her at the afmetime, fee fliould think of getting the finging apple,which was a great etnbellifhmtnt to the wit, andbefide, fung fo fine, that it ravifbed all that heardit-Cherry heard of this by chance, and when allwere gone to bed, mounted his whire'nag again,and fet out in fcarch of the apple. After feveraldays journey,, he perceived in the road, a tu'tle al-molt dead, and taking pity oh* wiped the fea¬thers which were bloody, took out of his pocket,a box of an admirable ointment, and no fooner ap¬plied it to the wound of the poor turtle, than itopened its eyes, ftretchcd out its wings, and look¬ing at Prince Cherry, faid. You are deftined tolave my life, »nd perhaps I may do you as fignal afervice, follow me, and l will afiift you in this en-terprize- Trie Prince let her go, and followed hertill they came to a great mountain of land. Dighere, {aid the turtle, which he accordingly did,fume times with his hand, and fometimes with hisJ9ftroro; after foir.e hours hard working, he founda. complete fuit of armour for man and horfe, allof glafs; he had however fe»rce got it on, beforethe dragon that guarded the apple, came roaringtowards him; but When he faw his own terrible.•figure multiplied fo many times in the frince’sglafs-armour, he ran away, frighted to fee fo manyfuch inonfters as himfelf. After th*t, Cherryfearching about, difcovered with joy the beautifultree, and breaking off the bough that bore theapple, he made halte back to prefent it to his be¬loved Fair-flar.When the wicked Feintifa heard of PrinceCherry’s fuccels, file could hardly contain herfelf;but repaired to Fair-liar, who as foon at fne fawher, cried. Ah ! keep your advice to yourfelf, forj though the benefits } receive are great, they makei not amends for the uneafinefs i am under, ¥oumud notwithftanding that be told, faid Feintifa,that you want the little green bird, who tellsevery thing ; and then left her abruptly.jFair-fisr re-Heeled how great pleal'ure it would~ be to them to know their parents, and thereupon,cried; Cherry, who came in foon after from rant¬ing, faw it, and asked the caufe, \v»ich Die refufedto tell him; he thereupon threatened to kill him¬felf, and by that means extorted the fecret fromher, but file irfifted, that he ftiould not with hislife feek to fatisfy her defires. However, as foon$t file and her brothers were retired to theirchambers, he mounted his horffe again, and wentaway without faying a wo*d to any one*I he Prince wandered up and down, asking alllie met, where he might find the Green Bird, tobe fiiort, r!}« morning by fun rife, he perceived areck, which was very high and craggy, and on.thu20top of it, the bird talked like an oracle; Cherrtho»gbt he might cateh it with very little troublefines it appeared to be very tame-, f ie alightecoff his hbtfe; and climbsd up withou' mskirg mijnoife, when all on a fudden the rock opened, ant;he fell motionlefs into a large hall, fciis two bro*thers likewife fet out with the fame hopes, andmet with the fame misfortune.Fair-ftar feeing none of her brother’s return;Was inconfoltble, and without farther hefualton,ordered their fervant to (lay fix months, and. ifnrftber file nor her brothers returned in that:titnk; to jjo and acquaint the Gorfair and his w ifewith their deiths. Then dreffing herfelf in man’*clothes, to fecure her from any intuits on herjourney, Keintifa had the pleafure to fee her fetoi;t on her (fabella horfe; and immediately ran,full of joy to regale the queen with .the news.Fair-liar in her wiy faw a t rtle-dove, »o lefswhite nor cold than the ftiow it lay upon, and;taking it up, faid What fiiall 1 do lovely tsrile tofare thy life? To which it anfwered, One fweet ;kifs Kair-ftaf, will finifh what'yon have lo ctiari-jtably began. She kiiTed it immediately, and the.,turtle reviving, laid, I thank you for what youhave ddne, and now t will do lomething for you.When you cpme to the rocks infte&d of attempting jto climb it,' ftay at the bottom, and pretend to beatleep; when the green bird fees me, he will comefrom the rock to peck me. and then you mull take ;the advantage aha edteh him. She did lb, and by 1the direSUbn of the tartle t > .4 a red feather out .>of the green bird’s wing, and touching the rock /with it three times, the enchantment was broke* ;f.ad her brothers w ith many others let lr«c.! When the ting heard of their return, he fent'or them and their curiofities to court, where theigreen bird gave an account of their births.Never was joy greater than theirs, their motherwas fent for, and while they were embracing each'.other* the Fairy appearing, told them bow she■had prote&ed them under the shape of a turtle,land ad upon account of the charitable receptionthe Queen Blondina gave her. Cherry to com¬plete his happinefs was married to Fair-liar, "-ho'jbefere he took for his filler. But as for the Queen-nother Roufetta and Feintifa, her maid or hon¬our, they were fent into perpetual banishment.THESTORYEBOULI SINA.EBQULI SINA, a fage dervife, had parted thenight in the boufe of a poor woman, who hadexereifed all the duties of hofpitality towardsihim, he was touched wrh the unfortunate condi¬tion to which (he was reduced, and refolving toifuccour her in her misfortunes, he loofened a ftonefrom out of the wall of the houfe, and .pronounceddome words over it, placed it again where it wasjbefore, and pierced it with a little pipe, at theend of which he put a eocit, then faid to the wa°‘22roan as he returned her his thank** and bid her jadietuMy good Mother, whenever you are in want of 1ns-oeffarics turn this Cock, and draw out as much |win* as you pleafe; take the quantity that is ne~ 'ceffary for yoiir own ufe, and carry the' remainder 'to the market, lie allured that the fource willnever fail,- all I exa& of you js, not to unloofe the 'ftone, nor to look at what I have put behind it.The good woman prendfed flic would not, and du¬ring fome time obferved what the holy man had >recommended to her. She gathered riches; af¬fluence and plenty foon reijned in her little fami¬ly, at length curiofity became fo ftrong withinher that fhe fubmitted to its diftates, (lie difplacedthe ftone, and found nothing behind 'it but one ,fmglo grape; the then replaced it in the fame or- ■der Che found it, but the wine ran no more : Thus ■was (lie, by fatislying her idle curiofity, pufiiflied ;by the fame want (he before experienced.SONG *SUNG BY tHEQUEEN of the FAIRIES.C^OME, follow, follow me,J Ye fairy elves ihat be.Like tripping oe’r the green,Ccme follow all your Queen fHand in band we ll dance around.For this place is fairy ground.When mortals are at refl,And fnoring in their neft.Unheard and unefpiedThro’ key holes we do glide;Over tables, (tools, and (helves,We trip it with our fairy elves.And if the houfe be foul,With platter, difh or bowl.Up (lairs we nimbly creep,And find the Huts afleep ;Then we pinch their arms and thighs.None us hears and none us Ipies,But if the houfe be fwept,And from uncleannefs kept,We.praife ‘h« houlhok! maid,' And furely (lie i? paid ;Every night before we go,We drop a tefter in her (hoe.Then o&er n mufhroom’s headOur table cloth we fpread;A grain of rye or wheat,The diet that we eat;.Early drops of dew we drink.In corn cups fill’d to the brisk.The brains of nightingales,With unftuous (at of Ihaijs,HBetween two cackds ftew’tl,Is meat thai’s eafily chew’d;Brains of worm* and marrow of mice.Do make a feaft that’* wond’rou* nice.The gralhopper, gnat, and fly,Serve for our minftreify;Grace faid. we dance a while,4nd fo the time beguile :But if the moon doth hide her head.The glow-worm lights us home to bed.O’er tops of dewy grafs,S© nimbly we do pafs.The young and tender ftalkNe’er bends where we do walk •Yet in the morning may be frenWhere we the night before have bees..W •'m |«##-