Profit and Loss:OB, THECHRISTIANMERCHANT.Mat. icvi. 26.‘ For wiiat is a nan profited, if he shallrgain thewhole xvorliL, and lose his own s'ml P*AT5C)#AN ADDRESSTO THEUnfortunate Female.i -41 T m I- v ^ '■ *^£j ^'i Ilo*v shantay be delivered from trouble, and befcomeTRULY HAPPY.KILMAJtKOCK iPANTED BY H. CRAWFORD,1818.PROFIT and LOSS»  INVERT merchant is acquainted with the-J meaning of the words Profit and Loss.They are the title of an account in his hookswhich exhibits the state of his business, and fromwhich, at one view, he may ascertain whether heis prospering or not. When I was 3 boy at school,I was much puzzled to understand how two suchopposite things as profit and loss should be putinto the same account; and the Teacher •Kplainedthe matter by telling me, that the loss went allto one side, and the gain to the other.There is a book of far more importance thana merchant's Ledger, in which the same wordsrtre used in reference to an account that everyman shquld take of himself, in order to ascertainwhether his affairs be in a prosperous or a ruinouscondition. The words are, Mat. xvi. 26. “ Whatis a man profited if he shall gain the whole world,and lose his own soul ?" Here is a question ofprofit and loss plainly stated It is addressed toevery man, and to all descriptions of men with¬out distinction, as all are equally interested in it.There is the gain of the world, and the loss ofthe soul, on one side; and the gain of the soul,with, perhaps, the loss of the world, on the other.There seems, at first view, to be both a profitand a loss on each of the sides; but #hen theaccount is examined, and wound up, it will befound that all is loss on the one side, and that all' 3 »is g^in on other: for the gain of the world is nogam, if the soul be lost j and the loss of the worldis no loss, if the soul be gained.When Jesus Christ addressed this question tohis disciples, lie was ful'y aware of the impor¬tance ot u, as connected with their eternal in¬terest. It Jj of r.o less importance to the readerof these pages. We is therefore requested to laythe matter seriously to heart. Let him form forhimself in answer to the question, “What is aman profited, if he shall gain the whole world,and lose his own soul r" Jesus Christ knows thevalue of the world, for he made it and all tilingsin it: and he knows the value of the soul of man,which he created immor'-al. The world is form¬ed of perishing materiah. It is doomed to de¬struction, and by and by h will be burnt up: blit' .the soul shall live for ever. Millions of ages arenot so much as the moment that is past, whencompared with the dmation of the soul. Howprecious then must it be! AU the angels in hea¬ven cannot calculate its value.infinitely precious as it is, it has been lost.Yes, Reader, the soul of every man and womanj bofn into the world is lost. Lost not to existence,j for that can never be; but lost to all that is pro¬fitable in existence. Lost to the enjoyment of theDivine favour; of course lost to happiness, andliable to all that is dreadful in the anger ofAlmighty God. This is in consequence of sin,which is the cause of all the misery and death inthe worlL Sin separated man from God, thenhe was lost, and every sin lie commits is a con¬sequence ard evidence of his being lost. “ TheLord looked down from heaven upon the earth,i to see if there were any that did good, but he4found none they were all lost, for they had ailgone out ot the way,” Psalm xiv. Rotu.iii. 10—IS.When the striptures declare all men to be lost,it is not with a view to drive them to despair, asif the loss were itTet! ievable; for they testify thatt-he Son of Man came to seek and to save thatwhich Was lost. We had ail gone astray like lostsheep, says the prophet Isaiah, but the Lord laidupon Him the iniquity of us all. He bare thesins of all who have believed, or ever shall be¬lieve on him. Thus he provided for the resto¬ration of the lost •, and, in virtue of what he hasdone and suffered, an innumerable cortnpany oflost sinners have been restored. He gave libs lifea ransom for the lost. Hence we hear an apostlesay, “ He bare oiir sins in his own body on thetree, that we being dead to sin, should live untorighteousness; by whose stripes ye are healed:for ye were as sheep going astray, but are nowreturned Co the Shepherd and Bishop of our scuis,,,1 Pet. ii. 24, 25.In our hatural state, we are all debtors to thefew and justice of God, for “cursed is every onethat continueth not in all things which are writ¬ten in the book of the law to do them.’’ A dr*ad-ful sum, therefore, stands against us in that ac¬count. It is a debt of guilt or unrighteousnesswhich no man could ever pay for himself, andwhich no creature could pay for him : but whenGhrist brings any losfsinner to trust in Him, andgive up all hope of payihg his own debt; his per¬fect righteousness is placed to the account of thatsinner as a full answer to all the claims of law andjustice against him. God, the Father and Judgeof all, being well pleased with the righteousness.5of hia beloved Son, reckons it to tbc account ofthe believing sinner for righteousn*t.s,—-caripeisthe debt of unrighteousness which stood again ,thim, and rettores him to the enjoyment of hisfavour, whieh is life. Than, it is s.aul of such-a-one, “ He was dead and is alive ag4in, and waslast and is found.”“ God so loved the world, that lie sent hi* onlybegotten Son into the world, that whosoever be-Ueveth in him should not perish, but have ever^lasting jife,” Christ came mt» the world as sentby his Father j and, whenever he began to speakcn his Father's business, lie addressee* men at lostand perishing sinners. “1 am sent, said he, ‘‘tothe lost sheep of the house of Israel. « I am, come,” (for Christ was a willing Messenger,)“ not to call the righteous, but sinners to repen¬tance.” The Scribes and Fhaynees murmuredagainst him, saying, This man reeeiveth sinners,and eateth with them.” Instead of denying th»fact, he admitted it ■, tux! justified ins conuuct bythe parable of the lost sheep, the lost piece b£silver, and the prodigal son, (Luke xv.) A*much as to say, it is my proper easiness to seesqut and receive sinner*. V/iiefe should a teacher■ be but among the ignorant-—a physician, butamong the sick—-a saviour and restorer, but among* the lost? Having finished his work on earth bylaying down his life for his lost sheep,—he rosefrom the dead, and gave commission to his• apostles to go into all the world, and preach thegood news of his death and resurrection to everycreature, with a promise that whosoever believedshould be saved.While those sinners who come to Christ, have•«tU that they had last fully restored in him, those' 6v'ho viii not come to him must continue as tl.cyare, Jost and undone. At present, they are not• ware cf their real state, but there is a time ?p.preaching when it will be impossible to remainignorant of it. When Christ put the question,“ What is a man profited, if he shall gain thewhole world, and lose his own sou! ?” it was notthe present lost condition of men which he had'so much in view, as the future loss that must besustained by all who refuse to hear and obey him.Those who suffer their day of mercy to passaway, and who die in their sins, bring uponthemselves a loss that is final and irretrievable,—the eternal loss of their own souls. Where is theprofit then, though they should have gained thewhole world ?Reader, this question is addressed to you. Thatyou have an immortal soul, is certain ; that it hasbeen lost in consequence of sin, is certain; thatChrist came te seek and save the lost, is certain.If you believe what He says of himself, and cometo him for salvation, you shall certainly be saved ;you shall gain ycur own soul',—the life and ever¬lasting happin*«ss of your immoral spirit. But ifyou •will not come to Christ for salvation ; if you•will love the present world, and choose it rather,then, most certainly, your soul shall be lost, andand lost for ever. In asserting these certainties, Ido not speak at .random. There is the word ofGod for them all; and there can be nothing morecertain than what He says is true. “ He thatbelieveth on the Son of God hath everlasting life,and shall never come into condemnation. Himthat cometh to me I will in no wise cac* out. Hethat bdieveth not ''he Son shall not see life, butthe wrath of God abideth on him. He is con-7demned already, because he believeth not on thename cf the Son of God.” And when the LordJesus shall be revealed from heaven, with hismighty angels, in flaming fire, it will be to beavenged on all them who obey not the gospel' ofChrist; who shall be punished wfth everlastingdestruction from the presence of the Lord, andfrom the glory of his power.When the question is sta‘ed, 15 What is a manprofited, if he shall gain the whole world, andlose his own soul it is dearly implied, thatthe world stands in competition with the gain ofthe soul; and that the soul maybe lost while thewor'd is eagerly pursued, and much of it gained.Thaf the world, and the things in it, aT theobjects of supreme desire, and eager pursuit dfmany, is as evident as that the world itself exists.What is the meaning of all the bustle and eager¬ness which we see around us every day ? it issolely for the g.dn of this world, the acquisitionof its wealth, a place of distinction in it, or theenjoyment of its pleasures. ^Reader, Is the world the object of your supremedelight ? Is your heart eagerly set upon beingrich? Does this occupy your thoughts by day,,and your dreams by night ? There are many who,if they would be candid, would answer thesequestions in the affirmative'. There are many1> Won ring every day, and all day long ; and whosehearts can take no rest in the night. Even theday of sacred rest is no sabbath to them. Theycannot suspend their devotion to the world forone hour; or, if an hour should witness theirbodies in the place of worship, their hearts andsouls arc in the place of business. With such in-<fu .try and application they will very probably gain8-their point. They will have their reward. Ifthey do not gain the whole world, they >nay gain« great deal more than enough for the gratificationof every carnal desire; so far as such desires canbe gratified. But after all, where is the profitwhen God shall require their souls at their hand ?That may be very speedily. It will be at an hourwhen they think not. It may be this very night—this very hour. Reader, suppose this to beyour cese; then what profit is there in all yourwealth? What, then, could rhe world do foryou, though it were all your own ? Your soul islost,—then all is lost, and lost for ever.Think of these things ere it be too late. (i Youcannot serve God and Mammon.” If Mammonbe your choice, of course you will serve him, and,while you satisfy your conscience with externalforms of religion, you will renounce the serviceof the true God. But can Mammon save you?When you call upon him in the time of trouble,will he answer you ? In the hour of death, willhe help you, or eave your soul ? You know thathe will not,—that he cannot, for he is no God ;he has no power* he has no existence but in yourown covetous heart and deluded imagination. Butthe true God has all power in heaven and on earth:that God, whose service you disown, whose lawyou have broken, and whose gospel you reject,as unworthy of your regard amidst, what appearto you, more important matters : he is abk to saveand to destroy: to save you, if you come to himby Jesus Christ ere it be too late : but if you allowthe day of mercy to pass away, he will destroyyou with an everlasting destruction “Now is theaccepted time j now is the day of salvation.”These things are not addressed to those only9'rli'* arr* rich, or who are strivipg (o be rich.They are equally applicable to every one whosejeart is ser on this world, or in what he posscsseat it, whether it be little or much. There is 3treat world, and there is a little world -, there il; gay world, and there is a penurious world ; andne devotees of these respective worlds, are all inijual danger ofv losing themselves. There ar£dme rich men who, through divine grace, haveireasure in heaven, and their hearts are then? j|vhile they consider the wealth which they haveeceived as the gift of God, to be employed in hiservice. And there arc many poor men, whoseliearts are in this world alone, desiring wealththat they may consume it upon their lusts, andboveting what they cannot obtain. Should thisiract be read by any such, let them consider, thatif the rich are in danger of losing their souls, theyare not safe because they are poor. There is nolir e re security in the one state than in the other.|it is the love of the world, anTnot the possessionof it, in which the evil lies. It is as impossible(to love both God and this world, as it is to serveGod and Mammon-, for “if any man love theiwcrld, the love of the Father is not in him.wReader, are you conscious that you love th« thingsof th'* world better than you love God ? then itis certain you love the world alone, and not Godat all. Think of the danger of your condition.Yv hat will you do when you are called to appearI before the judgement-seat of that God whom youdo not Idve ' By hard labour and penury, youmay acquire a portion of whit you do love; butsuppose you should acquire all that your heart couldhold, and lose your own soul, where is the profit ?It is but a little of this world that any man can10pain with all his labour. When the wealth .nne world is divided among hundreds of milliotit is comparatively a small portion that can falleach. But Christ makes the supposition of a mgaining it all; and what after all would it signifjIf he lose his own soul, where is the profi'Reader, thou hast in thy possession what is movaluable than all the world ; that is thine own inmortal soul. There are many precious thingsthe world, but what are all these to thee, if tlsoul be lost ? Every creature of God is gootbut thy soul is more to thee than them all. Tlsun, end the moon, and the stars, are great amglorious objects': but thy soul is more to thee thaihein all. Suppose, then, it were possible thoshouldst gain a thousand worlds, and enjoy theiall a thousand years, where is the profit, if, in tfend, thou lose thine own immortal soul ?These reflections will be read and approved bjjmany who, when they have laid aside the boolijwill think no more of the matter ; but will go an|pursue the world as eagerly as ever. They admthe truth of what is stated about the value of thsoul, and they cannot but admit that this worl-is of no use to one who is leaving it, and abeuto enter into an eternal state. But these convirtions have no happy influence upon their presendisposition and conduct. The world is enchanterground. It is full of g'htering phantoms, by whiclthe imagination is seduced ; and he that breathe1its atmosphere, is subject to a fascinating power,under the influence of which he mistakes shadow)for substances, attaches himself to the trifles of fday, and turns aside from the important realitiesof eternity.This melancholy state of mind is to be traced11to a mftre remote source than the mere love ofriches. “ The carnal mind is enmity against God}it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeedcan be. Men are alienated from the life bf God,through the ignorance that is in them, and becauseof the blindness of their hearts.” This is the realcause of their opposition to the truth, their re¬jection of the gospel, and inattention to theireternal interests. They have sin, and thereforethey love the world which presents occasions, andaffords the means of indulgence. The gospel isa doctrine according to godliness, therefore they| reject it; the way to eternal life is the way ofholiness, therefore they will not walk in it •, ther end is perfect purity, freedom from sin, and theenjoyment of the blissful presence of Him who ishoi/} but such a state has no charms for them,I and they desire it not. Instead of desiring to: know, and to enjov the presence of God, theirlanguage is, “ Depart from us, we desire not theknowledge of thy ways.”“ But these,” ycu wijl say, “ are the wicked.”Yes;., but who are they who are not wicked ?You are thinking, perhaps, of decent respectablek people, w ho p^iy their debts, w ho wrong no man,‘ and who are even useful members of society.There are such people in the world, and God for¬bid that I should aay there is no difference be-* tween them and those who are openly wicked, ac¬cording to the common acceptation of the word.In reference to all the concerns of the present life,there is a very great difference which is perceived,i ' and readily acknowledged, by all. But if thesei respectable persons are trusting in themselves thatthey are righteous, and rejecting the gospel of* sChnst; if their hearts are solely occupied aboutT2the things of this world* to the neglect of thosethings which are eternal j then, whatever theymay be in the estimation of rtien, they are enemiesto God, arid wicked in his sight: nay,vthey areso wicked, and their condition is so dangerous,that Christ says of such, « The publicans andharlots enter into the kingdom of heaven beforethem."The Lord seeth not as man seeth. Man lookethon the outward appearance, but the Lord looketfion the heart. For wise purposes he has plantedin the hearts of men in general, an abholjence ofthose crimes which are hurtful to themselves, suchas murder, adultery, drunkenness, theft, and suchiike. Those who do such things will, of course',be held as odious by all the decent part of society,and it is right it should be so. Dut men,' in ge¬neral, make a very low estimate of sins done di¬rectly against God. They - forget" that the firstand greatest commandment is, '1 o love God withall the heart and soul; and that a violation of thegreatest commandment, must, of ednrS£, be th? ,greatest sin. This consideration is in generaloverlooked by men, but it is not overlooked byHim by whom thoughts as well as actions nrOweighed, whose judgement is always according,to truth, and who will judge every man at thegreat day. Besides, God has given an inconceiv¬ably grand expression Of his love to men, by send-ihg his own Son to die for them. He eonfsttoanriiafnd invites men every where to submit to lilfn,to believe what is testified of him in the Snip? orra,with a promise that whosoever believeth, shall besaved. Now the man who does not believe thistestimony concerning Christ, who does not sub¬mit to hint as the Saviour, not only -Stands ar' 13wicked in the sight of God, but is actually con¬demned for his wickedness, and f®r this branchof it particular!r, oern'us.c he bclievcth not on thename of the Son of God. Such a man may standhigh in the opinion of his fellow-creamres, buthis case is, notwithstanding, dreadful in the ex¬treme. He is a rebel against the Majesty ofheaven, because he refuses God that homage‘ which is his due; he is an ungrateful despiser ofthe great-st gift of Divine love, because be rejectsthe only Saviour of the world ; and by discredit-j ing the good news of salvation by Christ, he isguilty of the dreadful presumption of culling theGed of truth a liar—O that those who have httherto been indifferentabout these things, would lay them to heart! that■ those, particularly, who art seeking fheir portionhi the present life, and neglecting the brte thingneedful, would seriously consider these word*? ofChrist, “ What is a man profited, if he shall g-airrp the whole world, and lose his own soul ?J> Amf .L if the Hely Spirit is pleased to bless them to anyeinrier,-—to convince him of his own sinful state,and of tire Saviour’s perfect righteousness, he wilf’ be like one brought into a new world. He willSee all things in a new light. He will acknow¬ledge himself a sinner ready to perish ; but hear¬ing the Saviour’s voice of mercy, “ Come onto me£»: ye that labour, and are heavy laden, and I willgive you resrthe flees for refuge to the hope setbefore him; and trusts in the Lord adobe forrighteousness, and strength, and salvation.Bfought thus iijto a new state, he wiil iive anew life. Formerly he thought only of living fai himself, and to the world; now he will liveunto God only. While the love of the world14reigned in his heart, he was as really an idolater .as the worshipper of Brahma or Juggernaut ; (theidols of the Hindoos,) but now he will cast his 'idols of silver, and gold to th& moles and to the|bats : not that he viii inconsiderately throw awaythe wealth hew.-say have acquired, but as an idolhe will renounce it for ever; and regard it onlyas an instiument f>f serving God, and promotinghis kingdom and glory in the world. The Lordmay see fit to strip him of all his earthly pos¬sessions, and leave him poor and naked as whenhe came into the world; but the loss will notmake him sorrow, as those who have no hope,nor deprive him of any real comfort; for he hasgained his own soul, and he finds ail riches inChrist.Professors of the gospel have a particular in¬terest in this question of profit and loss. It wasaddressed by Christ to disciples, in the first in¬stance, and with propriety it is addressed to themnow. A short time after the first proposal of thequestion, one of the disciples did, for,the sakeof a little of this world, cast away, and lose hisown soul. He betrayed and sold his Master forthirty pieces of silver; and obtained a name ofinfamy which will never be forgotten—“ the sonof perdition.’’The love of the world is a sin which, above,al¬most every other, easily besets professing Chris¬tians, because it is a sin in which they may in¬dulge without forfeiting the estaem of their fel¬low creatures, or even of their fellow-professors.The drunkard, cr the profane person, can haveno place in any well regulated Christian society ;hut covetousness, or the love of riches, has nogreat stigma gttachcd to it: it does not usuallydisqualify a man from holding a respectable placeamong Christians; partly, because beingj an af¬fection cf th» heart, ’t cannot be known to oth¬ers in I its extent and aggravation; and partly,because even where there are evidences of its ex¬istence, Christians are criminally remiss with re¬gard to it, and treat it with such tenderness andindulgence, as if they scarcely thought it a crime.This renders it the more necessary that the wordof God should be plainly And faithfully addressedto their hearts and consciences, that they may seetheir gu.lt, and be apprised of their danger. Letsuch be assured, that it is in vain to afctenipt a re¬conciliation -between the service of God and theservice of Mammon. The service of God is quitecompatible w.th a due regard to a man’s owncomfort in the world, and that of his family.—Nay, the word of God requires a proper atten¬tion to these things, and does not forbid the pos¬session of tii- fruits of honest industry: but allth>s must occupy a subordinate place in the re¬gards of a true Christian. He must use thisworld, as not abusing it; he must have his trea¬sure in heaven, and his affections there; andwhatever he possesses of this world’s wealth, hewill consider as- not his own, but a talent com¬mitted to his care, to be employed in the serviceof Him who gave it. But vain is the professionof the man whose heart is in the present world.,who loves his riches, and delights in their conti¬nual increase ; who thinks little about the honourof Christ, the propagation of his gospel, or thesupply of the poor; who gives nothing for thesegreat objects, or who, if he does give a little,gives it grudgingly, as if it were parting with theblood out of his veins. Such a man may have a16ctear understanding of much divine truth ; hemay be zealous for orthodoxy, and stand high inreputation among Christians ; but while the worldhas his heart, he must be ranked among thosewho are far from God, who are in the gall ofbitterness, and the bond of iniquity.t(The love of money is the root of all evil,which some having coveted after, have erred fromthe faith, and pierced themselves through withmany sorrows : and they that will be rich, fattinto temptation, and a snare, and divers foolishand hurtful lusts, which drown man in destruc¬tion and perdition.” Alas! what an object ofpity to-Christians in ail ages, is that professor ofwhom Paul ia-ys, “ Detnas hath' forsaken me,having loved this present world.” Suppose De-mas to have obtained the object of his love, wherewas the prafir if he lost his own soul {“ There is* a sore evil which [ have seen underthe sun, namely, riches kept for the owner'sthereof to their hurt. But those riches perish byeviT travail: anti he begetteth a son, and there isnothing in his hand. As he came forth of his mo¬ther’s womb, naked shall he return to go as hecame, and shafl take nothing of his labour, whichhe may carry away in his hand. Afid this also isa sore evil, that in all points as he came, so-shallhe go : and what profit hath he that, hath labour¬ed for the wind? Eedes. v. 13 —16'.17AN ADDRESSTOThe Unfortunate Female.CCEP T this paper, as a proof, that thoughunfortunate, you are not without a friend.True, it was an evii hour in which you listenedto temptation, and made a sacrihce of that virtuewhich by all, and especially by women, shouldbe held more dear than life. Have you notthought thereon and wept ? Oh that you mayshed the rears of unfeigned penitence, and now,at last, obtain mercy to forgive, and grace ef¬fectually to jeftore you !The awful step, to which you ascribe yourpresent situation, was accompanied (we are wil¬ling to believe,) with sharp misgivings, and im¬mediately followed with confusion and alarm.At the sight of a virtuous friend, you reddenedwith shtime ; the grow ing, apprehension c.r dis¬covery oppressed your life j and fatally, alas i youquitted the shelter which a parent's or-some be¬nefactor’s wing would have still afforded —Thepartner of your crime cared not that he had bro¬ken up the peace of a family j he soon becameweary of his victim, and then thrust her forthupon the unpitying world.Ah! did you not despond too soon, and des¬ponding, did you not form the most desperateresolution to sin yet more? Had you eventaken your guilty and distract?'* ?oul to a gracious38God, he would have soothed the wanderer, andlropened a door of hope.But alas [ you proceeded to fill up the measureij’of iniquity ; you sought an intimacy with those»whose habits of impurity were confirmed; youljentered (we shudder to think of it) on the ig- :nominious trade of prostitution ! What were yourgains ? Let the vile procuress, whose frowns 1and threatenings you so much dread, by whosetricks and violence you have been so much injured;let her reply. What forms of wretchedness.haveyou not beheld and encountered > Have you netsuffered from more than a brutal cruelty ; haveyou not shivered in the storm ; pined in some ifilthy abode; and, amidst heaps of companions, Uwitnessed infamy not to be told, and shared inwretchedness scarcely to be imagined?It were well if your history did not supply stillmore gloomy reflections. But we fear your guilthas kept pace with your misery, or rather out¬stripped it.You are now familiar with practices which inhappier days would have inspired horror. Youcan bear to stagger with intemperance; you canpour out the most frightful curses; you can ravelike* the destroying tempest; you have thrownaway the very profession of honesty; you are ripefor all abominations—Such is the picture thathas been drawn of your condition and character ;would to God that persons of so unhappy a class,<ould generally speaking, prove it to be over¬chargedNowand then, perhaps, you afford this pictivrea glance, and when you do, the momentary pangextorts imprecations on the man who enticed youinto this path of ruin. You blacken his memory19' with a!I possible reproach—and if your hatred led| you to detest the thought of copying his example,I wc should not despair; but, do you not, fromi day to day, in a manner vindicate and applaudhim f What mean your evening strolls, your looseattire, your affected smile, your familiar address ?Alas! you are a perpetual seducer, and demandinnumerable jfictims.Often have we seen with aching hearts, a fellow-creature arrested* by the voice of a stranger, andconsenting to attend her steps. ‘ He goeth as anox to the slaughter; knowing not that it is forhis life.’ How many such are blasted in the springof life ! — Once they were lovely and cheerful, andgave high promise to their friends. They metsuch as you,—and now, agonizing with remorse,shattered in constitution, a spectacle to the world,they shorten the sum of their days, they live with¬out principle, and seem likely to expire withouthopeDid you never ask, ‘ What have I to expect atthe end of my carrei ?’ Did yeu’never think ofdeath, and the judgement that follows ? Surelyyou have not persuaded yourself that there is noGod, and that the scriptures are cunningly-de¬vised fables; or if you hn\* , remember, we beseechyou, what it was that brought you to that per¬suasion. Yon first threw aside all law, you de¬termined to be vicious; and we cannot v/enderthat in the school of vice you have learned thelessons of falsehood. It looks well on the sideof.religion, that none are its enemies, but suchas are enemies to society and to themselves also.Yet if there is a G^d, have von any thing to hopefor ? Will he approve ? Or can you endurethe thunder of bis voice, and the tire of his wrath ?20Hss he not recorded this information—‘ Whore- •mongerw and adulterers God will judge V Has ho fnot authorised us to t^ll vt>u tliat the time shallcome, when the unrighteous and filthy shall re-pmain such, without the prospect of a change ?Suppose that the time were come, would you con¬tinue to glory in your shame, and so lightly esteemyour sufferings, as to view the prospect with calm¬ness ? No—to be eternally what you now are, isan idea which does not overwhflm you, merelybecause, for the present, you contrive to erase itfrom your mind.‘ What theu (you aflt) shall we do? Is it pos¬sible in some measure to retrieve ? Remains there 1a hope? Are we not banished from virtuouscompany ? Do not the modest shun and abhorus, as all human beings fly from the plague VFor the sincere and hrsken-heartetl there are as-.suredly grounds of encouragement. Rut thinknot that sorrow' and tears are an effectual reform,or that you will easily regain the respect and tran¬quility which you have lost. We would save youfrom despair—to flatter you with high expecta¬tions were unfaithful and inhuman. Such com¬fort a? we can administer, we will; you owe uarestfectful attention for the endeavour to serva' you : ai»d however faint the ray that shines otvyour path, it is your duty, and will be found tobe your wisdom, to pursue its course.There are houses opened hy the bounty of thepublic, such as the Magdalen, the Lock-Hospital,the Lock-Asylum, and the iambon Female Peni¬tentiary. Many have therein recovered health,profited under religious instruction, and been putinto a capacity of earning an honest and decentlivelihood. These institutions, it is true, are in-21capable cf e^nrittmg all' the s’jfFefers that sppiyfor their generous aid ; Vet snake the trial—yoamay be successful; and, if not, in the absenceof every other provision, you must surely feel themeanest workhouse in the kingdom to be a pa¬radise, in contparieon with the most splendidhabitation, haunted by such as you have been ac¬customed to mingle with, in crime and calamity.Perhaps, even now a mournful voice is asking—• Where is my sister r’ or ‘ Where my child ?’Some heart longs to melt over you ; some lips areprepared to say—4 She was lost, and is found;she was dead, and is alive again; it is meet thatwe rejoice.’Above all, there is a God, who, though youhave not considered it, has witnessed all your con¬duct, and all your misery. ‘ Choose the profoundof midnight, and the deepest cavern, his eye per¬ceives you -as clearly as in the public street in themidst of day.’ Such, we are informed, was thelanguage of one, whom an unfortunate vainlysolicited to attend her home. The unexpectedremark fixed, liked an arrow, in her conscience ;she represented to herself the guilty scenes on ..which the all-seeing God must have frowned;she sued for mercy; she. forsook her shamefuloccupation*, and from that time, devoted her lifeto industry, purity, and all the pursuits of a ge¬nuine Christian. May you go ami do likewiseThe door is not yet shut against you. Shouldfather and mother refuse you a sight of them,should the World extinguish all the hopes youplaced on its candour, there is one greater thanall, who will not only receive you, but doabundantly more than you can venture to ask.The Lord God is’ gracious, and merciful, andre*<ly to forgive. You have hear<4 fh.if } **■,> i h:^beloved Son came into this depraved world with'the design to save sinners. The 7th chapter ofLuke records an affecting instance of salvation —to you it applies with unspeakable interest, for,it describes the mercy of which one criminal likeyou, became a partaker‘ Behold, a woman, who was a sinner,’ that is,one addicted to lewdne.-,*, ‘ came to a house whereJesus sat at meat, and brought an kubaster boxof ointment. And stood at ins feet behind him■weeping, and began to wash his iter with tears,and did wipe them with the hairs of her head,and kissed his feet, and anointed them van theointment. And he turned to the woman, andsain unto Simon, « 'teeSi. thou tins wom.nl r lentered into thine house, thou gavest me no wa¬ter for my feet •, but site hath washed my feet'with her tears, and wiped them with the hairsof her head. hhou gavest me no kiss ; but tins"woman, since the time 1 came in, hath not ceased,to kiss my feet. Tvly head with oil thou didstnot anoint i but this woman hath anointed myfeet with ointment.—Wherefore l say unto thee,her sins, which ate nuny, are forgiven. And hesaid unto her, ri hy sins are forgiven.— Fhy faithhath saved thee ; go in peace.’. Are you young, and but lately led astray ?—Draw back your foot this instant, rush from thedestructive path, ft were ten thousand pities tothicken the cloud that has begun to hide fromyou the light of heaven ; and to employ the ener¬gies of youth in preparing arrows which shallpierce and poison the last hope of drooping age.Are you confirmed in iniquity, in full receiptof its wages? Reflect on the desolation you2.3ihave made, of all principle, zndainiope; and,when elated by your success, remember that theimeasure thereof determines your future measureof punishment. The more you succeed, theI deeper is the cup, and the bitterer its ingredients,j. And you, aged ofl'enders, whose' chief pro¬vince it is to procure victims, and, when youhave gained them, to destroy every scruple, everyi alarm, every setuim*nt, which may yet remain,of regret and virtue—even you shall share in ourtpity, even you shall be exhorted not to despair.{Tbere are but a few steps between you and death \jure unpardoned gtntt of such a life would crushi you down to the lowest hell: we tremble for youi at the moment we advise you; Truly we cani expect but little, and we are almost persuadedto say, ‘ Let them alone, in vain you invite, invain you threaten ; they are steeled alike againsthope and fear.’ Yet the idea of what you willsuffer, prevents us from being silent, and to youaiso we proclaim the promises. ‘ Come now (saiththe Lord) let us reason together, though your sinsare as scarlet and as crimson, return unto me withyour whole heart, and I will abundamly pardon.’1 ‘ The blood of Xsus Christ cleanseth fiorn all sin.’Unfortunate woman, whether young, matured,i or aged, despise not this, perhaps the last taken; of God’s compassion, which, if despised, willI never reach you. There are some, we trust, whoi will read this address, and consider it, and prayi over it i and who knows whether we shall notj hereafter meet a crowd of penitents, ransomedI from the miserable class, and invited to dwelli among the faultless and happy before the throne !We will cherish the idea, while a single gleamj discovers the prospect to be still open.* $4R':'t«ra, O daughter of rrproach, let on« -'boiir*aftei such an »gf» of dUsipanor;. bi dlw>t<i4 tr>thought', 't*h«*w kw>dne*i9 to jroarsdf—why SfetmWyou add bitteirH'SS to the bitter^ whv refuse appli¬cation to the Cod •of erace ? Th* excelleiit.oi theearth, say Come. ; the holy angeh say {J&ne; the]>ivine -Spirit saith Conre. Come to the fountainof grace and parky ; oftme to the foetkool of thatthrone from which in;iies *,ve?e slveti do'aori uponthe publican ; come to the tender-hearted Chris¬tian, who wiit pity, drrect, and encourage you^come to the cheerirtg ordinances of religion;‘ Come out front the wicked, and be separate, ..ndI will receive you as my daughter,’ saith theLord God Almighty.Blessed langw yo’11 Can any thing, but a heart1of stone, Jae insensibl* to ies persuasive import?A prayer rises from each devout reader, that yon,whom it principally concerns, may feel all it isoskufated to impress. Oh that you may also pray,and that your sorrow, your amendment, yourentire conversion to God, may form the solidde-mbnotraticn that prayer has obtained an answer.