THESPAEWIFE.5OB UNIVERSALWHEREIN YOURFUTURE WELFARE MAY RE KYOWN.byPhysiognomy, Palmistry, and Coffee Grounds.ALSOA iMstiuet Treaties on Moles.AND THEDREAMER’S I'ORTtXE TELLERGLASGOW:SOLD BY THE BOOKSELLERS.3HT.3T[IWaAfI8fjj-Hasvrm aosattufsa giaMffifl'jcrr vfiaaany/’tmu .iff f/if mwsw au rrAy:iiinn ,\n\wi«k>c\ ,\rsixou\>os5,vtiV\..i»9f«>lf[ m© ?.©i»B© iT A3HT OKA.HSjdtfT azuTRo i: 7/003A JO.8flaJJ38HOOa MHT YH GJfO*miA s<U\o ^iaV»>tLIo3 to vliLjgrn 63;iitr§i? oi'tfW .fTHE*e t9?1dw 10 nujJ -liatii liorft bni't nghbiigF()im\E-TELLERJoeTti* he iJrHjg bad ruon 9da : dte&b 1<> e jfisiii'W[alTilvf Alim oi bs'siifsriajgBOioaiB vi9Y ao«i9<i b awvds lied jb«IS .2SECRET INDiCATIONS.lo inolo-j ‘h!j - .?Judpntnto t°lHdrfwtjbjrtim the\ {ffqifa according,,,The hair'is one of the most bpfmtifn] naturalorr^amonts that, adorn the head of man orwoman. The Apostle Paul permits women towear long hair as' ah advahcemeint to theirbeauty, and to be pleasing in the eyes of theirhusbands. '1. Hair that1 is soft and thick denotes a manof much rhihiness.12. When the hair hangs down and is soft,* itdenotes the body to incline to dryness.3. Much hair demotes a’ hot person, and thathe is soon angry.4. Abhndance of hair in young 'childrenshows that they increase in melancholy.5. Curled hair and black, denotesTleat; thepeople m the South have itmbst alike.6. Hair standing upon end, like the pricklesof a hedge-hog signifies a fearful person, and.of ill courage..ebww Ip oat) oita ni 9JBn.utioqmi bunColour of the Hair.t. White signifies great frigidity or cold, asmay be seen in old men ; but many people aftermuch sickness, or trouble of mind, will on asudden find their hair turn grey or white, asalso after a fright or disappointment aFrench Officer, aged 23, on a sudden receivedsentence of death : the news had such an effecton him, that before morning his hair waschanged to milk white.2. Black hair shows a person very amorous,but cruel and ungenerous.3. Hair the colour of gold shows atreacherous person, arbitrary and proud.* 4. Dark hair has the same signification. Theperspiration of a red haired person isdisagreeable.5. Chestnut coloured hair, or dark brown,denotes a fair, just, and liberal person.The Heard.1. A thin soft beard shows a person lustful*effeminate, of a tender body, fearful andinconstant.2. A red bear*’ denotes the person courteousand friendly, a great flatterer and soon angry.3. A dark beard is good, yet it denotes aperson to be cordial, sincere* thoughtful andbold. ■ _ ■4. He that hath a decent beard, handsomeand thick of hair, is good-natured andreasonable.The Chin.1. A long chin denotes the person angry,and importunate in the use of words.52- iV little chin shows inveterace and malice3. A round and thin chin is not manly, butwomanish, and signifies boldness and muchpride. , . ,4 A square chin is manly, and denotesmuch courage and strength of'body; and suchperson? are commonly given to words.5. A round chin and dimpled shows goodnature but much addicted to pleasure.6. A lean wrinkled chin, represents a cold,impotent, and malicious person., , tThe:%ye~brows,antl 'Ey?.-lids.1. A person having much, and long hair onthe eye-brows, and both join across the nose,,is a very simple person, but conceited in his:own opinion.2. When the eye-brows are short andnarrow, denotes the man good natured andreasonable.’ the Neck1. He or she that has along neck, is of asimple natutie, not secret, fearfully, unlearned,a glutton, a great drinker in grneral.2. He that hath a neck short and small iswise, but deceitful, secret, constant, discreet,yet passionate and a genius.5. A neck inclined to the right side, denotesprudence, generosity,, and curious in studies:but inclined to left side, declares vice andimpudence.TVie Eyes.1. Great eyes denotes a slothful, bold andlying person, of a rustic and coarse mind.S. Little eyps, lijce, tlat of a mole or pig,‘deuptes a wejaJv ,jiuderMan<jiing, and easily‘T^ou., : ■ .r..; :*• .-O^. ey^, for put. df onelm»dredyftu„yf!H, not %d‘ two' fait&f'ul. It is:V«ry,iU4uck to meet a s^.ial :i ja-rson.boa iim+m; -1. A lon^ nose denotes aataih'mind, unrulydisposition, mucli given tQ -wifaio^l.ip^,rand notto 1)6 depended oh»: ;!'<»: 1 ... ^ .•(,•. ..' 2u A bigiti nosfedenotes aj yiplppt -person, avain liar, and extremely laseifcipps* easilyi belivfrng another,vandf^very i&dpiigtajif/hna Bomtsf boo% uem k'f eoJonoL .%vormnThe Month. a ^1- He that liath ag-reat and broad mouth isn au■! Siv-tff^ *0me- viM bie,t!> (o*w jiiiijrooob Jnd ^?iv.jsvf' l:^Great' ^‘hWald^efaw,1 signify-'a.\simple'rhaft,! pf’^O TtadeitstaWdin^': slaggish, vglothful,!* ^(T6F'art'iH>tti1e?iinoriy.'' uJ L.t m , ■2. Small ears denotes a good umderstarijdiagbut very small signify,nothing but mischief,has hlotf /; asfonob aoyo feoir) .1.bairn pstfipo brut -Miefii * lb ,no«y9ij gnt\'f7■ ' ■ • r diisi 9fi Hi « rThese are little marks on the skin, althbftfghthey appear to: b€t> tJiq 'finance oraccident}.,,.and,, imgljt e^jly ; pp.ss . t^euntliinking for things of no moment, arenevertheless of the ntriiost consequence, sincefrotft their colonr, situation, size, and figure,•nay he accnratelf gathered, the temper of andthe events that' WHl happen to the persont heajring them,,, ■- A' Mole on the wrist, shows tire person tohe of an ingenidns and indastrious turn.A. Mole between the elbow' and the wrist,•shows a ■placid and.clteerfiil disposition.A Mole near either felbow shows a restlessand unsteady disposition.A Mole on:itbe' right or left arm, showncourageous disposition.A Mole on the left shoulder, shows a person. of tr quarrelsome and.unruly, disposition.A Mole-” on the right shoulder, shows aperson of a prudent and discreet temper.A Mole qn the, loins, shares industry andhonesty, an amofotts disposltioju.A Mole on the hip, shows, that t,he personwill have many children.A Mole on th?, right thigh, shows that theperson win become rich and good luck*hi-marrihge. ; • r nit n8" A Mole on the right knee, portends thatthe person will be rash, with an inconsiderateturn.A Mole on each leg, shows that the personis indolent and indifferent as to what happens.A Mole on the right eye-brow announcesspeedy marriage ; and that the person to whomyou will be married will possess manyamiable qualities, and a fortune.A Mole on either cheek, signifies that theperson never shall arise above mediocrity inpoint of fortune, though at the same time hewill never sink to real poverty.A Mole on both cheeks denotes the personwill know a deal of trouble, losses, and crosses,but last arrive to be a great tradesman, and willgain great riches, will be a very publiccharacter ; and also fond of rural scenes.A Mole on the upper or lower lip, presentsthe person to be fond of delicate things, andvery much given to the pleasures of love, inwhich he or she will! pe successful.A Mole pn the side of the, neck, shows thatthe person will narrowly escape suffocation,but afterwards rise to great consideration byan unexpected lagacy or inheritance.A Mole pn thp throat, denotes that theperson will become rich by marriage.A Mole on the bosom portends mediocrityof health and fortune.9A Mole under the left breast over the heart,foreshows the man will be of a warmdisposition, unsettled in mind, fond of ramblingand light injiis conduct!in women, it showssihcerity in love, quick conception, and ea^yto travel in child birth.A Mole on the belly denotes the person tobe addicted to sloth and gluttony ;A Mole situated in the recestes whiehmodesty conceals from view, is not to admitof being discovered but by another ; and yetto have a mole sb placed is the most fortunatefor them.TO TELL FORTUNESBY THEGROUNDS OF A COFFEE CUP.Directions to pour out the Coffee Grounds.Pour thb grounds of coffee in a white cu^vshake them well about in it, so that theparticles may cover the surface of the wholecup; then reverse into the Saucer, thatsuperfluous parts may be drained, and' thefigures required for fortune-telling be formed.The person that acts the fortune-teller, mustbend their thoughts fipon The One that wishestheir fortune told, and upon their rank andjrofessibn, in order to give plausibility totheir p'rediQtio^. ft is.no^ to be^expectefl.H^on'taking up the cnp, that tti© j figures wil] beaccurately represented as they are iu the packand it is quite sufijpient if they bfar someresemblance to any of . the following ep-blems.■TtieVnfHh.Or serpentine lines, indicate ways ; if theyare covered with clouds, they are said,, to beinfallible marks either ofpast or.future reverse.If they appear <4ear and ^erene, they are a sniptoken of some fiji;tunate chance near at hand :encompassed with very many dots, theysignify an accidental gain of money, likewiselong life.The RingSignifies marriage ; if a letter is near it, itdenotes to-the person that has his fortune toldthe initial of name of the party to be married. TJie Leaf of Clover.Js as well here as* in common life adncky sign.Its different position in the cup alone makesthe difference; because it is on the top, itshows that the good fortune is not far distant,but it is subject to delays jf.it is in the laiddleor at the button^. Should clouds surround it, itshows that many disagroebles will attend thegood fortune, in’the clear.prognosticates sereneand undisturbed happipess as bright as thepdrty wishes.. ,The Xnchor. .Tbi§ emblem of tppe and competce impliessuccessful buisuess carried ;on by sea .and byland if on the bottom' of the cup j. at the tppand in the clear part, it shows constant love,and an unshaken fidelity. In the thick andclouded part itfalsp,:dftu9ltes lt>ve hut, tincturedwith the .inconstancy of,th« buttery. , .The S' ■■always the emhlciu of falsehood and cnimit;*'likd\yisfe heyy' a ^Heral sign oif an enemy. @nthfe'tbp. 'bjc in the 6iiddl“ ^ ittopj ^bf in the iuiadle - of the, cup; itpromises to the consulting party the triumphwhich he desires over his enemy ; but In' willnoic attain it’sb!ea^ily if , tfie serpent jbe in ’ Hietmm&mw1 -Bf the letters whichfrequently appear near the emblem, the enemymay easily be guessed, it makes the, initial of ,his' natne;, '. :   ‘ . , '• •«!'' --By letters-tve conitnuriicatte to ottl* friehdseither pleasant or uhjtresisiinli ne^rs, and suchis lihe case Merd-'ifthis embifem is in the clear ’parts it dehotps thi11" spehdy arrival ofwelcome news • surrounded with dots, It ;announces the arrival' of a:"comdderableremittance of money but herilmbd iri by cloudsit is quite the contrary, and forebodes somemelancholy, or bad tidings of a loss, or someother sinister accident.T!-,, m -mmmTire emblem bf-death, prognosticates the samething here, 'W at least a long and tediousillness, if itfibe rn the thick or turbid. In thecleaHt den'otes long life."' In the thmk, at thetop of the ettpi it Signtfics-.a considerable estateleft to the party by some rich relation yin thesanie manner at the bottom, it shows that^thedeceased is ! not' so nearly' related ’ to 'thecorisidtih^'party. .12The Star.Denotes happiness if in the clear, and at thetop of the eup; hloiided, or in the thick, itsignifies long life, though exposed to variousvicissitudes and troubles,, If dots are above itit foretells, good fortune, wealth, highrespectability;, &c. Several stars denotes somany good aiad .happy children will cause yougret and vexation m ypur old age, and thatyou ought to. prevent it by giving them a goodK education in tnue. ' .!. !j. TheQo?. ... . , VBeing at all times the emblem of fidelity orenvy, has also a two-fold meaning here. Atthe top, in the clear, it signifies true andfaithful friends ;but if his image be surroundedwith clouds and .dashes, it shows that thosewhom you take for your friends,are not to bedepended on ; but if the dog be at the bottomof the cup, you have to dread the effects ofextreme envy .or jealousy.J The Lily.If this emblem be at the top, or in themiddle of the cup, it signifies that theconsulting party either has or will have aa virtuous spouse, if it be at the bottom itdenotes quite the reverse. In the clear thelily further ^betokens a long and happy life ;if clouded, or in tlip thick, it portends troubleand vexation, especially on the part of one’srelations. ,The Cm*. . ■Be it* ope or more, it generally predictsadversities. Its position varies,, and so thecircumstances. If it be in the top, and in the13clear, shews that tile misfortunes of the partywill soon be at an end, or that he will easilyget over them ; but if it appear in the middle,or at the bottom ih the thick, the party ihustexpect many severe trials ; if it appear withdots, either in the cleat Or in the thick, itpromises a speedy change of one’s sorrow.Tka Clouds. , , iIf they he more light than dark, y ou mayexpect a good result from your hopes but ifthey are black, ybp may give it up.Surrounded with dots they imply success ihtrade, and in all your undertakings ; bht thebrighter they are, the greater will be yourhappiness.The Sun.The emblem of the greatest luck andhappiness, if in the clear; but in the thick itbodes a great deal of sadness; surrounded bydots or dashes, denotes that an alteration willeasily take place.. The Moon.If it appears in the clear, it denotes highhonours, in the dark, or thick part, it impliessadness, which will, however, pass withoutgreat prejudice. But if it be at the bottom pfthe cup, the consulting party will be fortunateboth by water and land.Mountain.If it represents only one mountain, itindicates the favour of people of high rank,but several of them, especially ih the thick,are Signs of powerful enemies; in the clearthey signifiy the contrary, or friends in highu,life, who are endeavouring to promote theconsulting party.■.;,; JiJ (i1 Jli j",' U'One tree only, be it. in tije, clea^ or thickpart, points but lasting liealth j seyeral treesdenotes that your wish will be accomplished.- ’the Child.In the clear part it bespeaks innocentintercourse between the consultor and anotherpbrson'; in thb thick part,. e’kcessb’s in lovematters, attended with great expettces ; at thebottom of the cup, it denotes the consequenceof Ubfdiitbus amours, atid a ^Ory dbstruciiveerid. m.i nioy   ji ‘"1UOV on Urn orij o« vont t,:-V '''-baa i-ijiii odi 'So molunr)ji dpi/tf 'orfj ni iod ; Tirol?) odj ni ■li ,egoTO TELL J QilTLNLSa*D R S A. IP S.'i9|lqmrdi io t>lT(Bb arif-m ,84uoufw'JiiodfiW 8*8q ,U‘7/ doirlw tepaba,CHildrbti.-^Th dreabi ybu have children is asi^'n that jcHi Will hd happy'in your family ;if one or more of them dhe/ybu witTmeet withsome misfortune.Cherries.—^To dream of cl terries .hetekensdisappointments in life, Vexations in marriage,falsehood in love,>.and deceitful pleasure, butif yon climb the tree, a sure, speedy, amiunexpected advancement in liffciis certain tohappen to you.n15Cohcli.—T’o dream of riditig in a coach, de¬notes that you will love idleness, and be givento pride ; to dream of coming out of a coachsignifies that disgrace threaten^ you,J and greatcaution is necessary.Corn.—To dream you ate gathering ripecorn denotes success in yoiit ettterpmfc/ bht ifit is blighted or mildewed, you Will be a greatloser.Cbinets:—To dream yon see a cogief isominous of war, plague, faniine; and death, tothe lover it forebodes an etftfite frustration ofhis hopes, to the farmer', failure df cr bps, andfor the seaman, storms and shipwreck.Death.—To dream you are dead denotes aspeedy marriage and success'in'all' yohr Un¬dertakings, to the married it promises youngchildren, who will be dutiful and give greatcomfort, to dream you see another person deaddenotes ill usage from friends, if you are inlove, your sweetheart will prove false, if youarejin trade, sharpers will take yod in, if afarmer, you will lbse money by horses, and hewaylaid as you return froth market;Debt.—To'dfeaih you ate in dhht'and pur¬sued by officers, denotes that you’Will fall intosome unexpected1 difficulties, or great danger.Devil.—To dream you see tKedevil Withoutfear foretells you will get the better 6f youradversary, if you are frightened you will beunder some danger.Dogs.—To dream of dbgtt that belong to ussignifies success in our pursuits, hut if wedream of those belonging to others, dangerousenemies. ■> , -ni "■ m v pjvI■iis, Fruit.—Almonds indicate, difficulties, lossiqf liberty, and deceit in love.Fjortnue.—To dream you make a suddenfortune is a bad omen; to tradesmen, it fore¬bodes losses in tr ade, quarrelling with bis cre¬ditors, and loss of liberty.Funeral.—To dream you are busily em¬ployed in burying a person denotes a veryspeedy marriage, and that, ere long you willhear of the death or imprisonment of someH near relation or estemed friend.Fieids.— To dream you are in green fieldsis a very favourable sign ; in love, it denotessuccess and happiness; to the tradesman,success and riches , and to the farmer, plenty ;if you are soliciting a favour, it portends youwill obtain it.Fighting.—To dream that you are fightingdenotes much opposition to your wishes, withloss of character and property.Fishing.—'Jo dream you are fishing is asign oj sorrow and trouble; if you catch fish,ypu will be successful in love and business;if they slip out of your hand after you havecaught them, it is a sign some preiendedfriend will deceive you.Flowers.—To dream you are gatheringfipwers is a very favourable omen, and is asign, you will thrive in every thing you mayundertake ; that you will be successful in love,marry happily, and haVe beautiful children.^Garden.—To dream you are walking in agarden denotes your advancement to fortune ;if you are gathering the produce of it, you willbe happy in marriage, and have a large family,it betokens great success to the lover, andincrease of business to the tradesman.Geese.—To dream of geese is a sure sign ofgood; you may expect to see an absent friendsoon; to the dreamer, they denote successand riches.Gifts.;—To dream to have any thing givento you is a sign that some good is about tohappen to you.Glass.—To dream of glass denotes bad suc¬cess in various underUkings; if you break it,it warns you of some unforseen misfortune,the death of your wife, or husband, or chil¬dren."'Gold.—If you dream of gold, it is a verygood omen ; it denotes success in your pre¬sent undertakings, after encountering num¬erous dilhculties.Gooseberries.—If you dream of gooseber¬ries growing on the bush, they denote that youwill have a numerous family and great successin your present undertakings; but if they arebaked, great tronble is near at hand, soprepare for a" sick-bed.Grapes.—To dream of white grapes beto¬kens felicity in marriage and success in trade ;but if they are purple, it denotes great miseryt6 the matrimonial state; to the tradesmangreat distress aud loss of business.Grave.—To dream of beingburiedis a signthat you shall die very poor.Guns.—To dream you see or hear gunsfiring fofetells much misery ; if you fire them,you will have quarrel; if they are dischargedat yon, you will be exposed to many dangers.Hail.—To dream of hail denotes sorrow andmuch grief,18Hair—,To drfam t,hat you are brushing orso long that it hangsvery loose oyer yonrshoulders, .depot,es that one superior to you*adores you!;, but if the hair is. red, it denotesthat you have enemies..Hanging—Dreaming you see one handed,or that you are to, he executed yourself, asigh you will, by iparriage, rise above yourpresent eondition, or a favour will he asl^edfrom you oy one in needy circumstances.jd^te.—Dreandrig of being hated by,friendsshews you will receive some injury. ,“ ’ ip^lo^ingyou.r hey dentes' or-fpe?.fcad omen. , .ifbp.rrr-IJo. drd?111 you are hurt with iron’you Will fee''1""displeasure.; to find one, an addition to yourfamily : to give one, is marriage; to receiveone, the birth of a child.King og Queen.—To dreatn about the Kingor Queen,!br any of the royal family, betokensdisappoin^pieid;, excepting the months, mwhich .there is npf an R, when it is a sign ofgreat l»>n,Qpr and prosperity.Kissing. /yfo dream yoh .kiss a pretty maidindicates gobd;. ff she consents without anyr.osistanc,e(^he \yill be true to her lover; todream you kiss p . married, woman and sheconsents.! is a sign of sorrow and poverty, andthat you will be unsutcessful in your presentundertakings.; it ^usually means deceit.Knife.—/.Tp dream you give a knife to yquriittended,,shows you will lose hihi.of Her,,19L’adiier.-^Td di'eam you climb a ladder,denotes that you will an iv:e'at great httnpur;it betokenValsio a htldby marriage and manveh i Idem.' ' ’Larirfel.-^A: ^trife to dream she smells aliinfeUtree shows she will have children ; if ariiaM', Hvfll be sbOti married to him whomshe loves. • '>• gn’ Letter: ■ To: deeam of'receiving a letterbetokens a preseht1' if-yen send one, yon -willrelieve a pdrsoh In bhircircumatdhces.' ! ’Marriage.—To dream you-are married,s/griMles the death of yourself or some nearrelation; to dream you assist1 at a !wfeddiligdenotes pleasing news and great suceess ; todream of lying with your1-husband or wifethreatens suddefi rnisfortiines and' greatdangers. -Mice. To dream of mice denotes successin loVe^arid’a 'hap^r marriage. >^0Milk; If yph di'e'ita of •'milk,-it prUmisesgredt news;- iLyou sefe it 'flooring from1 awoman’s breast, foretells happiness in obUdrenand in trade. uoy il .nokOMoney. To dream hf getting money denotesgreat sude'ess In all your uridertafcings.' 'Mulberries. To dream of mulberries isconstancy ' and afleetion in the1 married state ;to travellers and fealors, prosprous journeysarid' vdyages; to the lover it denotes a speedyunion with bis Wdetheart. ■'Music', ikr dream'you hear delicious musicdenotes joyfirl'news fr-Om a friend who barbeen long absent.‘Myrtle: To dre^uv df the myrtle deiiotesa wanton woman; beware then with whomyou keep company.Nakedness. To dream of nakedness denotesscandal; if you see a naked female, it is lucky,it denotes that honours await yon. at no verydistant period.Night. To dream yon are travelling bynigtit foretells great vexation.Nosegays. To dream of gathering andmaking nosegays is unlucky, showing thatour best hopes shall wither as flowers doin a nosegay.Nots. Dreaming of gathering nuts denotesthat you will spend your time in pursuit ofa trifling object, when you might employ itto better advantage.Oak. To dream that you see the statelyoak is a sign of long life, riches, and great fe¬licity.Oranges. To dream you are eating orangesimplies that yo,ur feelings will be wounded,and may expect great grief from a quarteryou little expect it.Oxen. If you dream that you see whiteoxen, it shows virtuous inclinations ; to seefat or lean oxen signifies presents, gain ormisfortunes.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters fore¬tells prosperity and that yoq will be marriedto a lady who is really a virgin and who willlove you ; but if you should let them fall, ypuwill lose the afleotiqus of the lady, for she isbetrothed to another, and wiH speedly be mar¬ried.Path. To dream you are walkiug in a easy21path shows that yiou will be successful in loveor if you are married, you will #htain whatyou now wish. for.Peacock. To dream you see a peacock is asign you will be married to a beautiful lady,and that you will be very' rich.Pears. To dream of pears betokens eleva¬tion in life, great honour and Mbhesi,, love thatknows ho termination, and success in everypursuit you may embark in.Play To dream you are at play bethkens,happiness in the married state, and increaseof business. ;•Plums. There cannot be a worse dreamthan that of plums; they are the forerunnerof ill-luck to the husbandman, the sportsman,and the lovers who were under promise ofmarriage.Purse. To dream yon find a purse betokensgreat- and unexpected prosperity ; if you losey^pr purse, you will assist at a friends funeral.Wuarrel. If you dream you are quarrelling,it shows great happiness and contentment.Rajn. If you behold rain in your dream, itpromises success in a love affair ; ih all otherrespects it betokens trouble and vexation.Ribbon. To dream you wear ribbons,shows an entanglement in love, to the single,and extravagant children to the married.Rings. 1 o dream that you have a ring onyour finger denotes marriage with the personyou love; but if the ring drops off, it betbkensdeath to a near friend.River. Dreaming that you see river-watercleav indicates good; but to dream of* swimm-22ing in .th^ sea whep it is muddy signifies greatperil and danger.Rocks. A good dream for those going intobusiness, as R shows stability therein.Sea. To dream you are walking on the seais good to him that, would take a wife, for heshall enjoy her.Silk., To dream you ate clothed in silksignifies honour, To dream that you tradewith a stranger denotes profit and joy.Singing. Tp dream that, you are singingbetokens some melancholy news; if you aren unwell, it shows a speedy recovery; ,.if;inprison, ypir^ill sponge set ffte, r , •Soldiers. To dr,earn of soldiers shqws,trouble, persecutions, and law-suits : if theypursue you, it shews that you will be dislikedby your rich neighbours* Sprats. To dream of sprats denotes y$rawill have a large family of children. If^youdream of cooking them, your children, wilrgive you great deal of trouble.Stars. To dream you behold the starsshinning very bright is success to the lover,and glad news from a far country, if Jheyfall it denotes health and happiness.$un. To dream yon see the sun shining de¬notes accuniuiatipn of wealth* aud filling postsof honour, ip the state..Tavern. To (Jream yon are feasting withfriends in a tavern signifies great jpy. andcomfort to you and yours.Teeth. To dream of losing your teethshows the Joss of some friend by death, andthat great trouble is' about to acconipany you,23Tempest. To dream you are; overtakenby-a storm denotes that you will; after num¬berless hardships,' arrive at happiness, andthat you will become rich and marry a good1-'natured ladyjs uoy rnaoib*Tbii'st. any one dreams his thirst isquenched When thirsiy, arid that he has drankhis fill of water f i# the water appeared clearand acceptable to;hini hewilllivcf very joviallyand become very wealthy; but if the waterbe troubled, luke-warm, stinking, and dirty,lie will end his days in sickness and affliction.Thtmder and- Lighthib#.. T(, dream ofthunder or Ightnitig denotes gain-in onr :bris-iness but if it hurts ftrir}' i t i3 a sigfh ‘ofhhinecalamity. ■ .Toad. To dream we destroy a toad denotesthat -we ‘will discover a" thief in whom weplaced great trust. oo w ^uiqTrees.' To dreaib Of cutting down treesbetokens serious-losses irt trade ; but if weclimb them it denotes advancement to honbur.Trumpet. To dream we hear the sound ofa trumpet denotes troubles and misfortunes;to theloVer, inconstancy in the object of hisa&ftibfift 0:f ol ; aoioyiavoBioq bnn yijaubmCl ms. To dream of ums iii a1 church-yardis the sign of the death of a sailor or soldierbelonging to your family.Venus—To dream you see this goddess,or a statue or picture, denotes an intrigue inwhich you will be engaged and the more im¬portant will this affair prove, if the planetVenus appears to you in a mortal form andspeaks to you, for it is a token of a happy mar¬riage to either sex./nwalking,—T**. drewn of walking in a dirtyplaflo forte)Is sjcknos'fi aaid venation to tbolover; it also denotes your sweetheart to: beof a bad temper and inconstant.Walls. If you'dream you are walking;Oftweak and narrow Walls, you are sure tO^u-dertake somo bold and dangerous; on terptifotjiif you corae^O^n without kurt you, will''futfricoodf- if the. walls fall atter you, you will bodisappointed mood bur.W»tw, Th1 dream, of dr irking wateriskows trouWe andadrwsUyf to the.lowr itfdpnotes that the pretension* ofyour sWeetjhOBrtare fidso; and will norer wed you.Wedding. To dream of a wedding is veryunfavourable to lovers; it denotes sickness ordeath to some friend or relation.Wood. If you dream of cutting or eftop*,piug wood, it shows you will be very happyin your family circle, and attain to muchhonour apd riches in life- To dream we arecarrying wood,on our back, shows we wid rise,to, affluence by industry and perseverance.Wool. To;dream we are buying or sellingwool foretells gain ip business by means ofindustry and perseverance; to to the lover,it is a sign their sweetheart i$ of an amiabledisposition, very constant and deeply in lorewith them..-•jaekbog eiflJ. 90a n<rr nifis^b oT— snm*"/THE ElNTi).