THEWitty and EntertainingEXPLOITSOFGeorge Buchanan,COMMONLY CALLEDTHE KING’S FOOL.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS..( Of SCOTLAND r)* •. fJfe ?( t* ' iLBIKIED iOV .1111: BOOK8ErrSH8*tVl'KIIfK :1HE k'lMC 8 boor 'CO ?I no VTA C7ITED -<^GOf,o,GOREZF»rOIXi?,T .-7 r- ■ .-V;--. : - ^JLHEEXPLOITSOFGEORGE BUCHANAN.Mr George Buchanan was a Scotchman born,and though of mean parentage, made great pro¬gress in learning. As for his understanding andready wit, he excelled all men then alive in thatage, that ever proposed questions to him. He wasa servant or teacher to King James VI. as his pri¬vate counsellor, but publicly he acted as fool.Ft happened one day that a young airy noble¬man went into the King’s garden to pull a flowerfor a'young lady he fancied. George followed ata distance; so when the young man found a flow¬er to his pleasure, he would not pull it, but to findit again without further searching, he covered itwith In’s hat and went away for his sweetheart.No sooner was he gone, but up goes George, liftsthe hat, pulls the flower, then eases himself on thespot, and covers it with the hat again, and awayhe goes. Soon after the young gentleman return¬ed, leading his sweetheart to pull the flower belowthe hat; but as soon as he lifted tile hat, and sawwhat was below it, be looked like a fool; and thelady flying in a passion, sets off, and would nevercountenance him any more. I he young gentle¬man being sadly vexed at this affront given him byGeorge, seiit him a challenge to fight him, ap¬pointing day and place where they were to meet.Being to fight on horseback, George gets an oldstiff horse, and for harnessing covers him aboutwith blown bladdersj w ith small stones in each,witboirt Cither sword or spear"; away to the field4he goes, where the duel was appointed. So, whenGeorge saw his enemy coming against him, all inglittering armour, armed with sword and spear,he made up to him with all tjie speed his horseco.uld carry him ; when the small stones made sucha rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not stand the battle, but ran away andthrew his master to the ground, which caused allthe spectators to laugh, and say the gentleman wasmore fool than George. The gentleman beingstill more enraged at this second affront, he wouldfight with George on foot; but his friends per¬suaded him that it would be no honour for him tofight and kill the King’s fool, and far less to be kil¬led by the fool; so they were advised both to a-gree. But the gentleman would try another ex¬ploit with George, for to have it said he was stilltTie cleverest man, viz. To hold him a jumpingbout publicly, the next day thereafter. With allmy heart, says George; and we will end in and a-bout where we began; they not knowing his mean¬ing in this. The place and hour being set wherethey were to meet next morning, George in thenight time caused a deep pit to be made, and theearth of it carried away ; then filled it up withdung from a privy, and covered it pver with greenturf, that it might not be known from the otherground. So, according to promise, they both metin the morning against the appointed time. NowGeorge being the oldest man, and by them count¬ed the greatest fool the young spark permitted himto jump first, which he according to order did;and jumped within a foot of the place where theground was falsified. The young man seeing this,made his performance with great airs, and all hismight, so that he jumped a foot over George, andup to his oxters, in clean dung ; whereat the wholemultitude of spectators cried out with loud huzzasand laughter. Now, says George, I told you wewould end in and about where jve began, and thatis in clean dirt.On a time after this, the king and his court weregoing into the country, and they would haveGeorge to ride before them in the fool’s dress;whereupon he seemed unwilling, but it was theking’s pleasure. So George was mounted uponand Old horse with the heels hanging down, and apalmer coat, patched over with pictures of diverskinds. George rode before them in this posture,which caused great laughter and diversion^ untilthey came to an inn, where they alighted to dine;and in the time they were at dinner, George wentinto the stables, and with a knife cut all theirhorses’ chafts, not sore, but so as they miaht bleed.Now, as soon as dinner was over, and they mount¬ed their horses again, George riding before themas usual, in his palmer coat and old boots, theybegan to make their game of him ; then Georgeturning about suddenly, clapped his hands with aloud laughter, the king asked him what made himlaugh so ? Laugh, says George, how can I butlaugh when horses cannot hold their peace?Q my sovereign, says he, don’t you see how yourhorses have rent their chafts laughing at my oldboots? Then every man looking at his horse’schafts, they were all in a rage against George.The king caused George to dismount directly,and charged him never to let him see his face onEnglish ground. Now, George knowing that no¬thing could reconcile the king at this time, hecame away to Scotland, and caused make him apair of great boots, and put a quantity of Scotchearth in each Of them, and away he goes for Lon¬don, to see the king once more. He hearing theKing and his court were to pass through a coun¬try village, George places himself in an old win¬dow, and sets up his bare arse to the King and hiscourt as they passed. The king being greatlyamazed to see such an unusual honour done tohim, was curious to know the performer. So hecalled unto him, desiring him to come down ; andfinding it to be George,—Sir, says the King, did Inot charge you never to let me see your face again ?True, my Sovereign, says George, for which cause1 let you see my arse. But, says the King, youwas never to come on English ground again. Nei¬ther I did, says George, pulling off his boots be¬fore the King, behold my Sovereign, its all Scotchearth I stand upon, The King and his eourt be¬ing greatly diverted with this merry joke, George.was again admitted to the King’s favour.After this there arose a debate betwixt theKing and the Queen about votes in parliament;as the King had,,two votes, the Queen wouldhave one, and would needs be a parlianien-ter, no peace without preferment. This mat¬ter was committed to George by the King. Soit was agreed in parliament that the Queen shouldbe admitted for a day. Accordingly she came,and was received with all the honour and congra¬tulations that was due and becoming her high sta¬tion; but before any matter of consequence w asbrought to the board, George seated himself hardby the Queen’s seat: all being silent, he rose upvery quickly, lifted one of his legs, and let a loudfart, which set the whole house a laughing; where¬at the Queen w as greatly offended, and said, Go,take the rogue and hang him. To which Georgeanswered, a fine Parliameuter indeed? to hanga man for a sinless infirmity, and that’s a fart.1'he Queen enraged at the affront put on her firstappearance in Pariiament, went off in a passion,and would never countenance them more. Butyet, to be revenged on George, she would nevergive the King rest tilt he delivered George intoher hands, that lie might be punished at her plea¬sure ; which the King accordingly commanded tobe done, knowing that George would rescue him¬self bv some intrigue or other. No sooner was liedelivered into her hands, but she and her maidsof honour pronounced his doom, which was asfollows: “ As he had affronted the Queen amongso great an equipage, which out to be honouredin chief above all women in the nation, that heshould be stoned to death by the hands of women.’’Now the time having come that he was to die, ac¬cording to their appointment, he was taKen into apark, where a great number of women were waitingfor him, with their aprons full of stones, to fall up¬on him, and put him to death, according to theQueen’s appointment.HIS SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTIONERS.Here’s a female band with bags of stonesTo kill a man for rumple groans:I’m clean of rapine, blood and thefts,Could 1 convert my farts to rifts.Since 1 the til'st lor farting die,Close up the place from whence they fly.'1 o commit my crime 1 think you’ll scarce,Jf once you do cork up your arse.And now since women stones do carry,Alen need not in this world tarry.Judge if such women he chaste completeW ith forty stones between their feet:Rut since ’tis so you will come on,The greatest whore throw the first stone.W hen he ended with these words, ‘ The great¬est whore throw' the first stone,’ every one put itto another to cast the first stone; but knowingthey would attain the character of a whore for so8doing, they all refused till the dying hour waspast, and then he took a protest against them, andby that means saved his live. After this he wasadmitted to the Queen’s favour and presence, andattended the court as formerly.About this time the French King, in order topick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent aa letter to the king, desiring it to be read beforethe Parliament; and the writing was as follows:‘ Will I come? Will I come ? Will I come ?’—This letter being read before the King and hiscourtiers, they all concluded that the French Kingdesigned to invade England ; therefore, they or¬dered an answer to be wrote, upbraiding him withthe breach of peace, and putting him in mind ofthe last treaty. The answer being read over be¬fore the King and his nobles, they all agreed thatit should be sent off. But George, smiling andshaking his head, said,Many men, many minds;Who knows what he designs ?They then asked George what he thought theFrench King meant by such a letter ? To whichhe answered, I suppose he wants an invitation tocome over and dine with you, and then return ina friendly manner; but you are going to chargehim with a breach of peace, before he has givenany signal of offence.— His letter is indeed darkand mystical, hut send him an answer accordingto his question. Now, George being ordered towrite the answer, it was as follows. ‘ And ye come.— And ye come.— And ye come.’ This being sentto the French King, he admired it beyond expres¬sion. saying-, It was more valiant and daring thanhe expected. So the enmity he intended was ex¬tinguished and turned into love.It happened onee that a malignant party in9Scotland sent up a grdat spokesman to the Kingand Parliament, for seducing of the church:George hearing of his coming went away and methim on the bridge, and the salutation that he gavehim was, the cutting off his head, and throwing itover the bride! He then ran to the King vvithall his might, and fell down before him, pleadingmost heartily for a pardon, or without it he was adead man. The King most seriously asked himwhat he had done now ? To which he answered,He had only thrown the Scotch bishop’s hat overthe bridge, which made the King to laugh, tohear him ask pardon for such a small fault. Buthe had no sOondr got the pdrdon sealed by theKing, than he said, Indeed, my Sovereign, I threwhis hat over the bridge, but his head yv,ag in it.Geordy, Geordy, says the King, thou wilt nevergive over till thou be hanged.A nobleman in England agreed with the Kinghow to put a trick upon George, to try his manlycourage, in sending him to a certain place for a bagof money. On his way through St. James’s park,they caused a sturdy fellow attack him on theway and take the money from him. The fellowbeing armed with sword and pistol, came up brisk¬ly and attacked George with these vyords, You,Sir, deliver what money you have, or you are adead man. To which George answered. Sir, Ihave some, indeed, but ’tis not my own, arid there¬fore do not like to part with it; nevertheless, be¬ing determined as you seem to be, to exchahgeblows for it, pray do me the favour to fire yourpistol through (he flap of my coat, that the ownersmay see I have been in danger of my life before Iparted with it; which he accordingly did. Nosooner had he fired the pistol, than George whipsout his hanger from below his coat, and with one10stroke cut off the feilow’s right hgnd, wherein heheld the sword, $0 that botli sword and hand fellto the ground; but George lifted his hand andcarried it to the King. No sooner did he comebefore them, but they asked him, saying, Veil,George, did you see any body to trouble you bythe way, None, said he, but one fellow, who wasgoing to take the money from me ; but I madehim give me his hand he would not do the like a-gain. You did ? says the fellow’s master. Yes,[ did, says George, let work bear witness, throw¬ing down the fellow's hand on the table beforethem all.Now this last exploit of George’s caused manyof the English to hate him; and among the rest ayoung nobleman fell a joking with George, saving,he umuld be a famous champion for Scotland asSir William Wallace was. Aye, aye, says George,Wallace was a brave man in his time. True in¬deed, says the young nobleman, but w lien he cameto London, we did him all manner of justice ; andfor honour of the Scots, we have his effigy in ourshit-houses to this very day. And do you notknow the reason of that, says George ; No I don’t,says he. Well I’ll tell you, said George, he wassuch a terror to Englishmen, when he was alive,that the sight of his picture yet makes them beshitthemselves. The English took this answer as agreat affront, and forthwith caused ^ allace’s pic¬ture to be taken out of all their shit-houses.George happened one time to be in companywith a bishop, and so they began to education,wherein he blanked the bishop so remarkably, thatthe bishop himself owned lie was worsted.— I henone of the company addressed George with thesew'ords: Thou Scot should not have left thy coun¬try. For what reason, says George. Because■11thou hast carried all the wisdom that is in it hitherwith thee. No, no, says George, the shepherdsin Scotland will dispute with any bishop in Lon¬don, and exceed them very far in education. Thebishop took this as an affront, and several noble¬men affirmed it to be as the Scot had said : beatswere laid on each side, and three of the bishopswere chosen and sent away to Scotland, to disputeit with the shepherds, accompanied with severalothers, who were to be bear witness of what theyshould hear pass between them. Now, Georgeknowing which way they went, immediately tookanother road, and was in Scotland before them.He then made acquaintance with a shepherd onthe border, whose pasture lay on the road sidewhere the bishops were to pass; and there hemounted himself in a shepherd’s dress: and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his flockto the road-side, and there fell a chanting a Latinballad. When the bishops came up to George,one of them asked him in French, what o’clock itwas. To which he answered in Hebrew, It was di¬rectly about the time of the day it was yesterday atthis time. Another asked him in Greek, Whatcountryman he was. To which he answered inFlemish, If you knew that you would be as wiseas myself. A third asked him in Dutch, Where .he was educate. To which he auswered in Gae¬lic, Herding my sheep between this and Lochaber.This they desired him to explain in English, whichhe immediately did. Now, says one of them, weneed proceed no farther. What, says George, areyou butchers? I’ll sell you a few sheep. To thisthey made no answer, but went away shamefully,saying, they believed the Scots had been throughall the nations in the world for their education, orthe devil had taught them. Now when Georgehad ended the dispute with the bishops, he strip¬ped off his shepherd’s dress, and up through Eng¬land he goes with all the haste ifnagindble, so thathe arrived at the place from whence they set outthree days before the judges, and went every dayasking if they were come, so that he might not besuspected. As soon as they arrived^ all that w^ereconcerned in the dispute and many more, camecrowding in to hear what news from the Scottishshepherds, and to know what was done. Nosooner had the three gentlemen declared whathad passed between the bishops and the shepherds,whom drey found on the* Scots' border, but the oklbishop made answer, And think you, said he, thata shepherd could answer these questions? It hasbeen none else ;but the devil, for the Scots’ minis¬ters themselves could not do it, they are but ignor¬ant of such matters, a parcel of beardless boys.Then George thought it was time to take speechin hand. Well, my Lord Bishop, says George,you call them a parcel of ignorant beardleJs boys.— You have a great long beard yourself, and ifgrace was measured by beards, you bishops andthe goats would have it all, and that will'be quiteaverse to Scripture. What, says the bishop, areyou a Scot ? Yes, says George; I am -d Scot.. Well, says the bishop, and what is the differencebetween a Scot and a sot?' Nothing at present,says Geotge, but the breadth of the'table ; therebeing a table betwixt the bishop and- George. Sothe bishop went of m a high passion, while thewhole multitude were like co spilt thbir jaws^ithlaughter.About this time there w-as an act of Parliamentfor the benefit of murderers, that any person w hocommitted murder, if they forfeited five hundredmerks, which went under tllehiame of Kin-boor,13/because so much of this fine went to the murderedperson’s nearest relations, as the price of blood* themurderer got a remit. Now, George knowingthis to • be contrary to Moses’s law, was grievedvery much to see so many pardons sealed wdththe King’s hand for murdfer, almost one, everyweek, it being so usual for the king to subscribethem, that he would hot read them, nor inquirewhat they were ; for which cause George writes aright to the crown, and sent it to the, King tobe subscribed, which he actually did, and neverlooking what it was, returned it to George. Nosooner had he received it, but he goeS tb the Kingand told him it was not time for him to. be sittingthere; w'hereat the King, greatly amazed, startedup ; then George in a great haste, set himselfdown in the King’s chair, forthwith, declaringhimself to be King ; saying, You who was Kingmust be my fool, for I am now the wisest man.The King was greatly offended at this, untilGeorge showed him the seal and subscription.—But from that day forth, the King knew what hesubscribed.The next pardon that came to be sealed by'1 theKing was to a gentleman who had killed two menbefore, and had gotten pardohs for them by mo¬ney. This being the third, the king was very si¬lent in looking over it; George standing by, ask¬ed what he was going to seal now. To which heanswered, it is a remit for a man who has killedthree men at sundry times, I gave him two remitsbefore. O! says George, he has killed but oneman. And who killed the other two? says theking. You did, says George ; tor if you had giv-'en him justice when had killed the first, he had kil¬led ne more. W hen the king heard these words,he threw down the pen, and declared that such an14act to save a murderer should be null ever after byhim.:,ou{(j V ajitq aJl er> .eaoilef n teaman e'no^variOne time George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and spade, and then falls adigging at a corner of the King’s palace; which theKing perceiving from his window, calls out whatwas he wanting there. Are you going to under¬mine my house and make it fall ? No, my sover¬eign, said George; but it is verily reported thatthere is plenty of money about this house; and*where can it be? says George, I cannot find it;for it is not within the house to do me service;then surely it must be below it. O George, saysthe King, that is a crave after the new fashion;what money you want I’ll order it for you. Thenmy sovereign, says George, I’ll dig no more.One time George being in the country, he ar¬rived at an inn, where he alighted to refresh him¬self and his horse. The innkeeper charged himdouble price for every thing he called for. Georgenever grumbled at this, but gave him all his de¬mands, and away he goes on his journey. \l theinn where he quartered next night, he was usedafter the same manner, if not worse, t.aving lit¬tle farther to go, he returned next day, and cameto the same inn where he had been two nights be¬fore. So, when he alighted, the boy asked himwhat he would give his horse. What you will, sayshe. The master of the inn came into his room be¬fore supper, and asked what he would have forsupper. What you will, landlord, says he. Aftersupper, and a hearty bowl to put all down, he wentto bed. On the morrow he rose very early, andcalled for the boy to make ready his horse in ailhaste, for he intended to mount and go directly.Soon after, he went into the stable where the boywas, calling for his horse, when he mounted withall the speed he could, and gave the boy a pieceof money, saying, here, my boy, this is for takingcare of my horse ; I have paid for all I called forin the house,—amd off he goes. About mid-daybe alighted again at an inn to refresh himself andbis hors£, and there he chanced to be in companywith his other landlord, who used him so badly;Sir, says George, l believe I was in your house twonights ago. O yes, Sir, says he, I mind of youpretty well. And where was you last night ? Lastnight, says George, I was in one of the inns, andtlie civilist landlord I ever had in my life; theybrought all things to me that I stood in need of,without calling for them : and when I came oft’this morning they charged me nothing, and Ipaid nothing but sixpence to the boy for. dressingmy horse. Blood and wounds! said the old fellow,then I’ll go there this night.— Ay, do, saysGeorge, and mind this, when they ask you whatwill you have for yourself and your horse, answerWhat you will, Sir. George smiled within himselfto think how he had got one extortioner to takeamends of the other. So this innkeeper set off on’his journey, and rode so late that night, that hemight reach the cheap inn, that most of the peoplewere gone to bed before he arrived. As soon as hedismounted from his horse, the boy enquired athim, what shall I have to your horse, master?W’hat you will, boy. The boy hearing this, ranaway up stairs, leaving him and his horse standingat the door, to his master’s room, citing, master,master, ‘ What you will’ is come again ?—O therogue, cries he, where is he? I’ll cane him,— I’il‘ A hat ypu will’ him by and by !— And to him heruns with his cane, licks and kicks him until hewas hardly able to mount his horse again, andwould give him no entertainment there; whichcaused him to ttde a whole wrntfer night, after liehad got his bones all beat and bruised. So the onepursued the other as a murderer ; and his defencewas, That he was a cheat, and a scorner of hishouse; until the truth was found out.After this, George being in Cornwall about busi¬ness, where he chanced to run short of money,and not knowing how to make his way to Londonwithout it, being acquainted with none in thatcountry, but knowing his landlord to be loyal togovernment, and a great favourite of the King hismaster, he take! a piece of brick, and brays it intosmall powder, mixed with a little chalk, so that itmight seem in colour like arsenic, which is strongpoison ; then tying it up in two papers, Writing onthe one, ‘ Strong poison for the King,’ and on theother, ‘ Strong poison for the Queen’ Out he goeson purpose and leaves the parcels on the table,where he knew they would be looking at them.—The landlord perceived the directions. So in comesGeorge in a great haste, and calls out, O landlord,did you see two small parcels I have lost, I knownot what to do, for it was my main business totake them to London. O you murdering rogue!cries the landlord, I will have you hanged for whatyou intend. George hearing this, made off, butthe landlord calling for assistance, he was dppre-hended, made prisoner of State, and conducted toLondon by a troop of horse; Where the peopleknowing him, told the guard who he was, theyhearing this slipt away shamefully one by one,George thanking them for their good companyand save convoy.George one dav easing himself at the corner ofa hedge, was espied by an English ’squire, who be¬gan to mock him, asking him why he did notkeckle like the hens ^ but George, whose wit was17always ready, told him, he was afraid to kecklelest he should come and snatch up the egg. Whichrebuff made the ’squire walk off as mute as a fish.George was met one day by three bishops, whopaid him the following compliments;—says thefirst, Good day,father Abraham; the second, Goodday, father Isaac; the third, Good day, father Ja¬cob. To which he replied, I am neither fatherAbraham, father Isaac, nor father Jacob ; but I amSaul the son of Kish, sent out to seek my father’sasses, and lo! I have found three of them. Whichanswer convinced the bishops that they had mista¬ken their man.There was a bell at Dalkeith, which the Popishclergy made use of to extort confession from theignorant people in the following manner.—Theytold the persons who they suspected guilty, thebell would rive at the touch ofaguilty person, butif not guilty, it would not. By these means theygenerally frightened the ignorant into confession ;if the bell would rive, the person was then tobe condenmed to. death. But they managed thematter so, that the bell was never brought to trial,till George did as follows ; he was imprisoned forsaying that the Pope was fallible himself; andcould not pardon the sins of others. George ownedhe did so, but would refer to the bell whether hewas guilty or not. The priests, though unwilling,were obliged to comply.—George touched the bell,repeating as before, The Pope is fallible, andcannot pardon sin; moreover added, The Popeand the Popish clergy are imposters; and there¬upon touched the bell, referring to it for thetruth; but the bell not rending, the priests weredisgraced as impostors, George was honourablyacquitted; and the bell was laid aside.A young gentleman that would be witty on the18Scriptures, eating some cheese full of mites onenight at a tavern.—Now, said he, 1 have done asmuch as Sampson, for 1 have slain my thousandsand ten thousands. Yes, replied George, who hap¬pened to be in his company, and with the sameweapon too, the jaw hone of an ass; which set thewhole company a laughing, to see the young no¬bleman heat with his own weapon.(ieorge being in company where three bishopswere present at dinner, they knowing George to bea great scholar, and comical withal, they put uponhim to say the grace, which he did as follows:—Here are three brethern of the coat,Who for thy blessings thank thee not,Curse them Lord, and bless them not. — Amen.Fall on gentlemen, the cause is good. ibis gracemade the bishops look on one another like fools,while George laughed heartily at the confusionthey were in.A candlemaker having had some candles stolen,was telling it in a company where George waspresent, who bade him be of good cheer, for, sayshe, in a short time they will all come to light.George being sent to Paris about some business,went from thence to Versailles to see the FrenchKing’s court; and being known there by severalof the courtiers, who had been at the English court,one of them took occasion to tell the French Kingthat George was one of the wittiest men in England;upon which the French King desired to see him ;which he did, but George, it seems, was out ofhumour, or seemingly so, and spoke but little tothe purpose, so that the French King told thenobleman who commended him for such wit, thathe looked upon him as a very dull fellow ; but thenobleman assured the king, that whatever he thought,of him, George was a very witty and ingenoiuman ; whereupon the King was resolved to make)19farther trial ofhiin, flntl took him into a large hallwhere there was a great number of fine pictures,aiu! among the rest he shewed him the picture ofChrist on the cross, and asked him if he knew whomthat was ; but George made himself very ignorant,and answered No. Why, said the King, I willtell you if you do not know I bis is the pictureof our Saviour on the cross, and that on the rightband rs the Pope s, and that on the left is my own.hereupon George replied, I humbly thank yourmajesty for the information, for though I have oftenheard that our Saviour was crucified between twothieves, >et 1 never knew who they were before.George being one day travelling to London,and the weather being very cold and rainy, healighted at an ipn to refresh and warm himself;hut the fire being surrounded with people hescarcely could see it. George finding this to bethe case, calls to the hostler, and orders him togive his horse, at the door, half a peck of oysters.You mean oats, sir. No, no, says George, it isoysters, and base is the horse that will not eatoyseters. The people at the fire hearing this,started up and ran to the door to see the horseeating oysters. 1 he moment they left their seatsGeorge took the opportunity to plant himself be¬fore the fire with a table and cloth beside him.In a little they came back again one by one, sayingthis horse will not eat oysters. Well, well, saysGeorge, lie is too full or too saucy ; so you maybring them in and I will eat them myself.One ti ne after this George being in company a-bout twenty miles from London, and on his wayhomeward, a fine gilded coach came up after him,and being informed that it belonged to the bishopof Canterbury, and was going to London for hisLordship, George addresses himself to the coach-.vsttod20man to have a passage with him in the coach toLondon. So he bargained with the coachman fortwo dollars to carry him to the Bell Inn on Lon¬don bridge; the one he gave him in hand as heentered the coach, and he was to give him the otheras soon as he saw him come out of the coach door.So away the coachman drives to London in allhaste, in which time George wrote the followinglines:—Here sits the Bishop of Canterbury,Who at the schools disdained to tarry:Far better skilled in games than preaching;/ nd yet he lives by others’ teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indeed :—’Tis blind and lame that chariots need;Six brutes with eyes this brute doth carry,—1 mean the Bishop of Canterbury..My feet being lame I gave a dollarTo he drove in state, like you a scholar;For which i do myself abhor,Shame caused me make another.These lines George battered on the inside of thecoach, and when he came within a mile of London,he took a knife and cut a great hole in the buck-side of the coach, through which he came out;and to make his promise good to the coachman,that he was to give him the other dollar as soon asever he saw him come out at the coach door. Thep"bor coachman drove on till he carne to the afore¬said inn, where he alighted and opened the doorto let out his passenger; but seeing the coachempty, and a great hole in the backside of it, becried, I believe 1 have had the devil in the coach,and he lias taken away the backside of it with him.The people of the inn came flocking about to seewhat was done; and then perceived the lines onthe inside of the coach, which the bishop came andread himself: they all concluded it to he done byGeorge, but cduld make nothing of it, for the bishopsaid, to persue might well make it worse, but nobetter./g<>George went into the mint one day, when theywere melting gold. One of them asked Georgeif he would have his hatful of gold ? George readilyaccepted, but it burnt the crown out of his hat,as they knew it would, and for that bout they, foiledGeorge. However, George to be even with them,bought a fine large hat, and caused a plate of cop¬per to be put betwixt the hat and the lining; andreturning next day, they jestingly asked him if hewould have another hatful of gold. He said hewould. They gave it red hot, and George nowlaughed at them in his turn, telling them, thatthis new hat was a good one, and stood fire betterthan the old one. And so he carried it off’honestly;and, being prosecuted to return it, he excused him¬self, telling the judge that he took nothing butwhat was given hirn ; and therefore he was honour¬ably acquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.A Scotchman being reduced to poverty, madehis complaint to George to put him in a way toget money. George told hitn if he would followhis directions he would try it. There was on oldmiser, an usurerand money changer hard by, Georgetold the fellow to pretend an errand to the miser,and when he came to the table w here heaps of mo¬ney lay, to thurst h:s hand among the gold, butto lift none, and to run off. This the poor fellowdid, and was chased by the miser and his servants,who ran after him, crying, Stop the thief! Thepopj; fellow was stopt, (as George had desirgd tolet them catch him,) George appeared in the mob,and went along with him, w ho was carried beforea judge, when he was searched, and nothing beingfound upon him he was acquitted, and the miserfined in a large sum for accusing him. Afterwards,George desired him to go to the same place, andfhrqst both his hands, and lift up as much as/$2could and run off. This he did, but the misertold him he was not such a fool as to follow him,for he knew he designed to play the fool to havehim fined apain. By these means the poor fellowwas enriched, and afterwards lived honestly.George hein^ at dinner one day', where the brothwas exceeding hot, burnt his mouth, at the sametime letting a loud fart; it is very good for you,says George that you made yourescape, for I shouldhave burnt you alive had you staid.Two drunken fellows fell abeating one anotheron the streets of London, which caused a greatcrowd of people to throng together to see what itwas; a tailor being at work in a garret, about threeor four stories high, and hearing a noise in thestreet, looked over the window, but could not wellsee them ; so he began to stretch himself, makinga long neck, until he fell down out of the w indow,and alighted upon an old man who was walking onthe street; the poor tailor w'as more afraid thanhurt, but the man he fell on died directly. Hisson caused the tailor to be apprehended andtried. The jury could not bring it in as wil¬ful murder, neither could they altogether free thetaylor; so the jury' gave it over to the judges, andthe judges to king. The king asked George's ad¬vice in the matter. Why, says George, I will giveyou my opinion in a minute; you must cause thetailor to stand on the street in the same place w herethe bid gentleman was when killed by the tailor,then let the gentleman s son, the tailor’s adversary,go to the Vfindow from whence the tailor fell, andjump down arid so kill the tailor as he did hisfather, for I can make no more ofitjyou see it wasa great mbrcy for the tailor that he had the o’dgentleman bbneath him, else he had been killed bntHe ^pbty and tlirt it w as the old gentlemarV's Itttor misfortune to die there. The tailor’s adversa-/23ry hearing this sentence past, he would not ven •ture to jump over the window, and so the tailorgot clear off. >»?,ni; 1 •After this, an English ’squire, who professed tobe better versed in poetry than George, laid a wa¬ger with another gentleman, five guineas againstone, that George would not metre the first wordsthat he would say to him in the morning, whennewly awaked out of his sleep; so the gentlemanwent the night before and told George the story,and bade him be on his guard, for in the morn¬ing they would certainly come, and that very ear¬ly. At midnight, if they will, says George, I willorder my servant to let them in.So the English ’squire sat up all night conferringwith his friends, whether to put a high verse tohim, or mean simple words; thinking that Georgewould be sitting up all night meditating on an an¬swer; so they all agreed that mean and simplewords he would not be thinking on, and have noanswer provided for such. So away they came inthe morning very early, with several gentlemen incompany to hear the diversion. George’s servantopened the door according to his master’s orders.The ’squire entered the room first and awakedGeorge out of his sleep, then said,Rise up you madman and put on your clothes.(To which George answered,)O thou hast lost thy wad man, for 1 am none of those.I he ’squire confessed he was fairly beat, andwould match with him ho more. Then anothergentleman w-ould hold five guineas, that he wouldgive him a Word or littC which lie dould nOt'rnietrbat the first answer, and to answer it directly assoon as he was done speakiAg ; but George order¬ed him first to table the money, and then to pro-/nuj1036dceetl, which he did in all haste, and said as fol-IflrWS-^- . j, ()8 Jcknlu 3l[j 10vo hmufAiy belly rumbled and then I farted.(Reorge gripping the money answered)A foul and his money is soon parted.Then they all cried out that he was fairly beaten,and what George had said was really true; but hewould never lay any more wagers concerning poe-try.George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fashions, a short time before his death, hehad a great desire to go and visit his native coun¬try, and the place of his nativity; therefore he pe¬titioned the king for leave to do so, which wasgranted. So he set out for Scotland, and went tothe parish of Huchalian, in the west, where he vis¬ited all his relations and friends: Ihit Georgestaying longer from Court than the time allowed,the king sent him several messages to return, towhich he returned no answer. At last the Kingsent him a letter, threatening, tlikt if he did notappear before him in the space hi twenty days, hewould send his Lyon Heralds for him ; to whichGeorge returned the following answer:My honoured Liege, and sovereign King,Of your bdHsting great I dread nothing ;On your feud and favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day i’ll be where few King’s enter.And he also gave hini many good admonitionsand directions concerning the government of hiskingdom, and the well-being of his soul, whichdrew tears from the king’s eyes when he read it.•JUl) 11 1‘JW*FINIS. ... - -3   :-010 0) aetlj hnc ,yminni ed]ol Kill mill he