•Mi* WEDDING-RING,. Fit for the Finger:or, THESalve of Divinity on the Sore of Hu-MANTY. *Laid 'open in aSERMONAT AWEDDING IN St. EDMONDS:By William Secker, late Preacher of theGospel.Gen. ii. 18. “ And the Lord God said, it isnot good that the man should be alone ; Iwill make him an help meet for him.Published and Sold, Wholesale and Retail,u” R. Hutchison, Bookseller,19. Saltmarket.1822.SERMON.Gen. ii. 18. And the Lord God said, it isnot good that the man should he alone: 1 willmake him an help meet for him.TTUMAN misery is to divine mercy, as ablack foil to a sparkling diamond, oras a sable cloud to the sun beants, Psal, viii.4. “ Lord, what is man that thou art mind¬ful of him !” Man is,In his creation, angelical. In his corrup¬tion, diabolical. In his renovation, theolo¬gical. In his translation magestical.There were four silver channels in whichthe chrystal streams of God’s affection ran toman in his creation.1st, In his preparation..2d, In his assimilation.3d,. In his coronation.4th, In bis association.1st, In his preparation: other creaturesreceived the character of their beings by asimple fiat; but there was a coasultation athis forming, not for the difficulty, but forthe dignity of the work. The painter ismore studious about that which he means tomake his master-piece. The four elements,3were taken out of their elements, to make upthe perfection of man’s conapleclion; the firewas purified, the air was clarified, the waterwas purged, the air was refined, when manwas moulded, heaven and earth was marrieda body from the one was espoused to a soulfrom the other.2. In hisassimilat'on: other creatures weremade like themselves, but man was made likeGod, as the wax hath the impression of theseal upon it. It is admirable to behold so faira picture in such coarse canvas, and so brighta character in so brown paper.In his coronation: he that made man andall the rest, made man over all the rest; quan-lillum Dominum possuit Deus in tantum do-minum, he was a little lord of a great lord¬ship; this king was crowned in his cradle.4. In his association : Society is the solaceof humanity; the world would be a desartwithout a consort.Most of mens parts are made in pairs; nowhe that was double in his perfection, mustnot be single in his condition, “ and the Lordsaid,” &c.These words are like the iron gate thatopened to Peter of its own accord; dividingthemselves into three parts. .1. An introduction, “and the Lord Godsaid.”2. An assertion, “ tis not good that manshould be alone.”3. A determination, “ I will make an helpmeet for him.”In the first, there is a majesty proposed.In the second, there is a malady presented.In the third, there is a remedy p/ovided.4Once more let me put these grapes intothe press.1. The sovereignness of the expression,“and the Lord God said.”2 The solitariness of the condition, “ ’tisnot good,” &c.3. The suitablenes of the provision, “ Iwill make,” &c.In the first, there is the worth of veracity.In the second, there is the want of society.In the third there is the work ot divinity.Of these in their order. And first of thefirst.First, The sovereignness of the expres¬sion. “And the Lord God said.”Luke i. 70. As he spake by the mouth ofhis prophets. In other scriptures he usedtheir mouth, but in this he makes use ofhis own : they were the organs, and he thebreath; the early streams, and he the foun¬tain. How he spake, ’tis hard "to be spokenwhether, eternally, internallv, or externally,Quomodo non est quod queer emus, sed potiusquid dixerit inteliigamus; we a-e not to en¬quire to the manner of speaking, but to thematter that is spoken; which leads me, like adirecting-star, from the suburbs to the city,from the porch to the palace, from the found¬er of the mine to the. treasure that is.in it,“ It is not good,” &c.In which, you have two things.1. The subject. 2. The predicate.The subject, man alone. The predicate,'tis not good, &c.First, The subject, man alone’, take thisin two branches.. 5 '! I. As it is limitedto one man.'' As it i^lei’igflietved to all men.First, As it is limited to one man} and so itis taken particularly: man, for the first man.When all other creatures had their mates,Adam wanted his: though he was the em¬peror of the earth, and the admiral of theseas, yet in paradise without a companion;though he was truly happy, yet he was notfully happy; though he had enough for hisboard, yet he had not enough for his bed ;though he had many creatures to serve him,ytt he wanted a creature to solace him: whenhe was compounded in creation, he must becompleted by conjunction; when he had nosin to hurt him, then he imist have a wife tohelp him: “ it is not good that man shouldbe alone,”Secondly, As it is lenghened to all men, andso it is taken universally, Heb. xili, 4.—“ Marriage is honourable unto all.” It isnot warrantable, but honourable. The wholetrinity hath conspired together to set a crownof glory upon the head of matrimony.I. God the Father; marriage was a treeplanted within the walls of paradise, theflower first grew in God’s garden.•2. The Son: marriage is a chrystal glass,wherein Christ and the saints do see eachothers faces.3. The Holy Ghost, by'his overshadow¬ing of the blessed virgin. Well might theworld, when it saw her pregnancy, suspecther virginity; but her matrimonial conditionwas a grave to that suspicion; without fhisher innocency had not prevented her in-: 6famy: she needed a shield to defend thatchastity abroad, which , was Jtept inviolableat home.Too many that have not worth enough topreserve their virginity, have yet will enoughto cover their unchaslity^ turning the medi¬cine of frailty, into the mantle of filthiness.Certainly she is mad that cuts off her leg toget her a crutch, or that venoms her faceto wear a mask.St Paul makes it one of the characters ofthose that should cherish ihe faith, 1 Tim.iv. 3. >Not to forbear marriage which may belawful; but to forbid it, which is sinful.”One of the Popes of Rome,, sprinklesthis unholy drop upon it, Carnis pollutionemet immunditiem.It is strange that should be a pollution,which was instituted before corruption; orthat impurity, which was ordained in thestate of innocency; or that they should makethat to be a sin, which they make to be asacrament.But a bastard may be laid at the door ofchastity, and a leaden crown set upon agolden head.Bellarmine that mighty Atlas of the papalpower, blows his stinking breath upon it,“ better were it for a priest to defile him¬self with many harlots, than to be marriedto one wife,” These children of the pur¬ple whore, prefer monasteries before ourmarriages, a concubine before a companion.They use too many for their lusts, to chuseany for their love. Their tables are so largelyspread, that they cannot feed upon one dish.1As for their exalting of a virgin state,is like him that commended fasting when hehad filled his belly.Who knows not that virginity is a pearl ofsparklinglustre? But cannottheone be setupwithout the other be thrown down? Will nooblation pacify the former, but the demo¬lishing of the latter ? Though we find manyenemies to the choice of marriage, yet it israre to find any enemies to the use of mar¬riage. They would pick the lock that wantthe key, and pluck the fruit that do notplant the tree.The Hebrews have a saying, he is not aman, that hath not a woman.”Though they ciiub too high a bough, yetit is to be feared that such flesh is full ofimperfection, that is not tending to propa¬gation : Though man alone may be good,yet “ it is not good that man should be a-lone;” which leads me from the subject tothe predicate, “ It is not good,” &c.Non bonnm, is not in this place, as malum,but bonum est hone stum, utile, jucundum.Now it is not good that man should be ina single condition, upon a threefold consid-erauon.1. In respect of sin, which would not elsebe prevented, marriage is like water toquench the sparks of lusts fire, 1 Corinth,vii. 2. “ Nevertheless to avoid fornication,let ever}’ one have his own wife/' &c. Manneedeth no such physic when he was in per¬fect health. Temptations: may break naturesbest fence, and lay its paradise waste; but asingle life is a prison ol unruly desires, whichis daily attempted to be broken open.8Some indeed force themselves to a singlelife, merely to avoid the charges of a mar¬ried state; they had rather fry in the greaseof their own sensuality than extinguish thoseflaine,s with an allowed remedy; “ It is betterto marry than to burn, ” to be lawfully cou¬pled, than to be lustfully scorched. It isbesf feeding these flames with ordinate fuel.2. ’Tis not good in respect of mankind,which then would not be propagated. TheRoman historian relating the ravishing ofthe Sabine women, excused it thus, Res erateetatis populus virorum: without them man¬kind would fall trom the earth and perish.Marriages do turn mutability into the i-mage of eternity: it springs up new budswhen the old are withered. It is a greaterhonour for a man, to be the father of oneson, than to be the master of many servants.Without a wife, children cannot be hadlawfully; without a.good wife, children can¬not be had comfortably. Man and woman,as the stock and the scion, being grafted bymarriage, are trees bearing fruit to the world:St Augustine says, This pair is, PrimumPar Sf Pundamentum Omnitum, &c.They are the first link of human society,to which all the rest are joined. Mankindhad long ago decayed and been like a taperfallen into the socket, if those breaches whichare made by morality, were'not repaired byn>atrimony.3. ’Tis not good in regard of the church,which could not then have been expatiated.Where there is no generation, there can beno regeneration.9 .Nature makes us creatures, before gracemakes us Christians.If the loins of men had been less fruitful,the death of Christ would have been less suc¬cessful.It was a witty question that one put tohim t}iat said, marriage fills the earth, butvirginity fills the heavens: How can theheavens be full if the earth be empty?Had Adam lived ininnocency without ma¬trimony, there would have been no servantsof God in,the church militant, nor no saintswith God in the triumphant. But I will notsink this vessel by the over-burthening of it,nor press this truth to death, by laying toogreat a load upon its shoulders.There is one knot which I must untie be¬fore I make a further progress, 1 Cor. vii.1. “ It is good for a man not to touch awoman.”/Do all the scriptures proceed out of thesame •mouth and do they not all speak thesame truth? The God of unity will not inditediscord; and the God of verity cannot assertfalsehood. If good and evil be contraries,how contrary then are these scriptures? Ei¬ther Moses mistakes God, or Paul mis¬takes Moses about the point ef marria<>-e. To which I shall give a double answer.01. There is a public and a private gootl.In respect of one man it may be good not totouch a woman, but in respect of all, “ soit is not good that man should be alone.”Moses speaks of the state of man created,Paul of the state of man corrupted: now thatwhich by institution was a mercy, may by10corruption become a misery ; as pure wateris tainted by running through a miry chan-nel, or as the sun-beams R eceive a tinctureby shining through a coloured glass. Thereis no print of evil in the world but sip wasthe stamp that made it. They that seek no¬thing but weal in its commisson, will findnothing but woe in the conclusion. Whichleads mefromthesolitarinessofthecondition,“ man alone,” to the suitableness of the pro¬vision, “ I will make an help meet for him.”In which you have two parts; l.Theagent,“ I will make.” 2. The object, “ a help.”1 The agent, “ I will make.”We cannot build a house w ithout tools,but thetrinity isatliberty; Die vrrbuntan turn.To God’s omniscience there is nothinginvisible, to God’s omnipotence there is no¬thing impossible. We work by hands with¬out, but he works without hands. He thatmade man meet for help, makes a meet helpfer man.Marriages are consented above, but con¬summated below, Prov. xviii. 22. Thoughman wants supply, yet man cannot supplyhis wants James i. 17. “ Every good andperfect gift comes from above,” S,x. Awife, though she be not a perfect gift, yetshe is a good gift. These beams are dartedfrom the Son of righteousness.Hast thon a soft heart? it is of God’sbreaking: hast thou a sweet wife? she is ofGod’s making.Let me draw up this expression with a.double application.1. When thou layest out for such a good11on earth, look up to the God of heaven: lethim make thy choice for thee, who hathmade his choice of thee. Look above youbefore you, look about you. Nothing makesup the happiness of a married condition, likethe holiness of a mortified disposition. Ac¬count not those the most worthy that are themost wealthy. Art thou matched to theLord? match in the Lord. How happy aresuch marria'ges, where Christ is at the wed¬ding! Let none but those who have foundfavour in God’s eyes, find favour in yours.2. Give God the tribute of your gratulationfor your good companions. Take heed ofpaying your rent to a wrong landlord: whenyou taste of the sir eatri, reflect upon the springthat feeds it Now thou hast four eyes forthy speculation, four hands for thy opera¬tion, four feet for thy ambulation, and fouPshoulders for thy sustentation. What thesin against the holy Ghost is in pointdivinity, that is unthankfulness in point ofmorality; an offence unpardonable. Pityit is but that moon should be ever in an e-clipse, that will not acknowledge her beamsto be borrowed from the sun. He thatpraises not the giver\ prizes not the gift;and so I pass from tire agent to the object,a help.”She must be so much, and no less; and somuch, and no more. Our ribs were not or¬dained to be our rulers. They are not madeof the head, to claim superiority; but out ofthe side, to be content with equality. Theydesert the author of nature, that invert theorder of nature. The woman was made for12the man’s comfort, but the man was notmade for the woman’s command. Thoseshoulders aspire too high, that content notthemselves with a r«om below their head.It is between a man and his wife in thehotise, as it is between the sun and the moonin the heavens, when the greater light goesdown, the lesser light gets up; when the oneends is setting, the other begins in shining.The wife may be a sovereign in her hus¬band’s absence, but she must be subject inher husband’s presence. As Pharaoh saidto Joseph, so should the husband say to hiswife, Gen. xli 40. Thou shall be over myhouse, and according to Jhy word shall allmy people be ruled; only in the throne willI be greater than' thou^ The body of thathousehold can never make any good motionwhose bones are out of placf-. The womanmust be a help to the manin these four things;1. To his piety.2. To his society.3. To his progeny.4. To his prosperity.To his piety, by the ferventness of herexcitation. To his society, by the fragrant¬ness of her conversation. To his progeny,^y the fruitfulness of her educatfon. To hisprosperity, by the faithfulness of her preser¬vation.•I. To his piety, b} the ferventness of herexcitation, 1. Pet ii. 7.Husband and wife should be as two milch-kine, which were coupled together to carrythe ark of God; or as the two cherubims, thatlooked one upon another, and both upon the13mercy-seat; or as the two tables of stone, oueach of which were engraven the laws ofGod.In some families married persons are likeJeremiah’s two baskets of'figs, the one verygood, the other very evil; or like fire andwater, whilst the one is flaming in devotion,the other is freezing in corruption. There isa two-fold hindrance of holiness: 1st, On theright side. 2dly, On the left; On the rightside, when the wife would run in God’s way,the husband will not let her go: when thefore-horse in a team will not draw, he wrongsall the rest; wheli the general of an armyforbids a march, all the soldiers stand still.Sometimes on the left; how did Solomon’sidolatrous wife draw away his heart fromheaven? A sinning wife was Satan’s firstladder, by , which he scaled the wall of par¬adise, and took away thefort-royal ofAdam’sheart from him. Thus she that should havebeen the help of his flesh, was the hurt ofhis faith; his nature’s underproper, becamehis grace’s underminer; j.nd she that shouldbe acrownon thehead isa cross on the shoul¬ders. The wife is often to the husband, asthe ivy is to the oak, which draws away hissap from him.2. A help to his society, by the fragrant-ness of her conversation.Man is an affectionate creature; now thewoman’s behaviour should be such towardsthe man, as to require his affection by in¬creasing his delectation. That the new-bornlove may not be blasted as soon as it is blos¬somed; that it may not be ruined before itbe rooted. A spouse should carry herself so14to her husband, as not to disturb his love byher cbnlention, nor to destroy his love byher alienation. Husband and wife shouldke like two candles burning together, whichmakes the house more lightsome; or liketwo fragrant flowers bound up in one nose¬gay, that augments its sweetness; or like twowell-tuned instruments, which sounding to¬gether, make the more melodious music.—Husband- and wife, what are they but astwo springs meeting, and so joining theirstreams that they make but one current.It is an unpleasing spectacle to view anycontention in this conjunction.To his progeny, by the fruitfulness of hereducation; that so her children in the flesh,may be God’s children in the spirit, 1 Sam.I. 11. Hannah she vows if the Lord will giveher a son, by beailng him, she will returnthat son to the Lord by serving him. Aspouse should bemorecarefulofher childrensbreeding, than she should be fearful of herchildrens bearing. Take heed lest theseflowers grow in the devil’s garden. Thoughyou bring them out in corruption, yet do notbring them up to damnation. Those are notmothers, but monsters, that whilst theyshould be leaching their children the way toheaven with their lips, are leading them theway to hell with their lives. Good educationis the best livery you can give them living;and it is the best legacy you can leave themdying. You let out your cares to makethem great, O lift up your prayers tomak* them good: that before you die fromthem, you may see Christ live in them.Whilst-these twigs are green and tender,they should be bowed towards God. Children and servants are in a fdrr.ily, as passen¬gers are in a boat; husband and wife theyare as a pair of oars to row them to theirdesired haven. Let these small pieces oftimber be hewed and squared for the celes¬tial building. By putting a sceptre of graceinto their hands, you will' set a crown ofglory upon their heads.4. A help to his prosperity, by her faithfulpreservation, being not a wanderer abroad,but a worker at home.One of the ancients spieaks excellently;she must not be a field-wife, like Dinah; nora street-wife, like Thamar; nora window-wife,like Jezebel.Phideas, when he drew a woman, paintedher sitting under a snailshell, that she inio-ht *imitate that litllelreature, that goes no far¬ther than it can carry its house upon itshead.How many women are there that are notlabouring bees, but idle drones; that take upa room in the hive, but bring no honey toit; that are moths to their husbands estates;spending when they should be sparing? Asth^ man’s part is to provide industriously, sothe woman’s is to preserve discreetly; the onemust not be carelesly wasting* the inanmust be seeking with diligence, the womanmust be saving with providence. The cockand hen both scrape together in the dust-heap, to pick up something for their littlechickens.To wind up this on a short bottom.1. If the woman be a help to the man, thenlet not the man cast dirt on the woman.Secundus being asked his opinion of a16woman, speaks thus, Viri naufragium, damnstempestus, quietus imped.imentum, &c. Butsurely he was a monster, and not a mansitter for a tomb to bury him, thatt a wombto bear him. X,Some have styled them to be, like cloudsin the sky. Like snuff's in the candle. Likeweeds in the garden.It is not good to play the butcher with thatnaked sex, that hath no arms but for em¬braces. A.preacher should not be silent forthose are silenced from preaching; becausethey arc the weaker vessels, shall they bebroken all to pieces? Thou-that sayest wo¬men are evil, it may be thy expression flowsfrom thy experince; but 1 shall never takethat mariner for my pilot, that hath no betterknowledge than the splitting of his own ship.Wilt thou condemn the frame of all, for thefault of one? as if it were true logic, becausesome are evil, therefore none are good. Heh,ath ill eyes that disdain all objects. To blastthy helper, is to blame t hy maker. In 3 word,we took our rise from their bowels, and maytake our rest in their bosoms.2. Is the woman to be a help to the man;then let the man be a help to the woman.,, What makes these debtors to be such illpay-mastfirs? but because they look at whatis owing to them, but not at what is owin' gby thei^. Ifthou wouldst have thy wife’sreverence let her have thy icspect. Toforce ’a tear from this relation, is thatwhich neither befits the husband’s authorityto injoin, ilor the wife’s duty to perform.A wife must not he sharply driven, butsweetly drawn. Compassion may bend her8.17but cotnpulsibn will bft;ak her. Husbandand wife should act t owards each other withconsent, not by constraint.There are four things wherein the husbandie a meet help to the wife.1. In his protecting of her from injuries.It is well observed by one, that the rib ofwhich woman was made, was taken from un¬der the man’s arm; as the use of the arm isto keep off blows from the body, so the officeof the husband is to ward off blows from thebody, so the office of the husband is to wardoff blows from the wife. The wife is thehusband’s treasury, and the husband shouldbe the wife’s armoury. In darkness he shouldbe her sun for direction; in danger he shouldbe her shield for protection.2. In his providing for her necssities. Thehusband must communicate maintenance tothe wife, as the head conveys influence to themembers; thou must not be a drone, and shea drudge. A man in a married estate, is likea chamberlain in an inn, there is knockingfor him in every room. Many persons in thiscondition, waste that estate in luxury, whichshould supply their wife’s necessity Naeamor viget viariti, necJidvs Christians ; theyhave neither the faith of a Christian nor thelove of a husband. It is a sad spectacle to seea virgin sold with with her own money untoslavery, when services are better than mar¬riages; the one receives wages, whilst theother buys their fetters.3. 'In his covering of her infirmities.Who would trample upon a jewel becauseit is fallen in the dirt? ©r throw away a heap7-18of wheat for a little chaff? or despise a goldenwedge because it retains some dross? theseroses have some prickles. Now husbandsshould spread a mantle of charity over theirwives infirmities. They be ill birds that defiletheir own nests. It is a great deal better youshould fast, than feast yourselves upon their 'failings. Some husbands are never well, lon¬ger than they are holding their fingers intheir wife’s sores. Such are like crows, thatfasten only upon carrion. Do not put outthe candle because of the snuff. If the goldbe good, allow it grains. Husband andwives should provoke one another to love;and they should love one another notwith¬standing of provocation. Take heed of pois¬oning those springs from w hence the streamsof yoi^r pleasure flows.4. By his delighting in her society; a wifetakes sanctuary, not only in her husband’shouse, but in his heart. The tree of loveshould grow up in the family, as the treeof life grew up in the garden. They thatchuse their love should love their choice.They that marry where they affect not, willaffect where they marry not. Two joinedtogether without love, are but lied togetherto make one another miserable. And so Ipass to the last stage of the text, “ a helpmeet.”A help, there is her fulness; a meet help,there is her fitness.The angels were too much above him; thecreatures were too much below him; he couldnot step up to theformer, nor could he stoopdown to the latter: the one was out of his19reach,, tire other was out of his race; butthe woman is a parallel line drawn equal withhim. Meet she must be in three things.1. In the harmony of her dispositionHusband and wife should be like the im¬age in a looking-glass, that answers in allproperties to the face that stinds before it;or like an echo that returneth the voice itreceiveth. Many marriages are like puttingnew wine into old bottles. An old man isnot a meet help for a young woman. Hethat sets a gray head npon green shoulders,hath one foot in the grave and another in thecradle. Yet how many times do ye see thespring of youth wedded to the winter of oldage? a young person is not a meet help foran old woman; raw flesh is but an illplaisterfor rotten bones He that in his nonagemarries another in her dotage, his lust hathone wife in possession, but bis love anolherin reversion.2. In the heraldry of her condition. Someof our European nations are so strict in theirjunctions, that it is against their laws for thecommonalty to couple with the gentry.It was well said by one,“ If the wife be toomuch above her husband, she either ruinshim by her vast expenses, or reviles himwith her base reproaches: if she be too muchbelow her husband, either her former con¬dition makes her too generous, or her presentmutation makes her too imperious.Marriages are styled matches;yet amongstthose many that are married, how few arethere that are matched? Husbands and wivesare like locks and keys, that rather brCak•' 20than open* ^except the wards be'answerable.3. In the holiness of her religion. If a-dultery may separate a marriage contracted,idolatry may hinder amarriagenotperfected.Cattle of divers kinds were not to ingtnder,2 Cor. vi. 14. “ Be not un-equally yoked,”fyc. It is dangerous taking her for a wife,who will not take God for a husband. It isnot meet that one flesh should be of two ,spirits. Is there never a tree thou likest inthe garden, but that which bears forbidenfruit?—There are but two channels in whichthe remaimng streams shall run.1. To those men that want, wives, how tochuse them.2. To those women who have husbands,how to use them.1. To those men that want wives, how tochuse them <Marriage is the tying of such a knot, thatnothing but death can unloose. Commonreason suggests so much, that we should belong a doing that which can but once bedone. Where, one design hath been gravel¬led in the sands of delay, thousands havebeen split on the rock of precipitance. Rashadventures yield little gain. Opportunitiesare not like tides, that when one is past, an¬other returns; but yet take heed of flyingwithout your wings: you may breed suchagues in your bones, that may shake you toyour graves.1. Let me preserve you from a had choice.2. Present you with a good one.To preserve you from a bad choice.Take that in three things:211. Chuse not for beauty.2. Chgse not for'dowry.3. Chuse not for dignityHe that looks for beauty, buys a picture.He that loves for dowry, makes a purchase.He that leaps for dignity, matches witha multitude at once.The first c‘f these is too blind to be directed.The second, too base to be accepted.The third, too bold to be-respected.1. Chuse not by your eyes.2. Chuse not by your handsS. Chuse not by your ears.1. Chuse not by your eyes, looking at thebeauty of the person. Not but this is lovelyin a woman; but that this is not all for whicha woman should be beloved. He that hadthe choice of many faces, stamps this cha¬racter upon them all “ Favour is deceitful,and beauty it vain.” The sun is more brightin a clear sky, than when the horizon isclouded; but if a woman’s flesh hath more ofbeauty, than the spirit hath of Christianity,it is like poison in sweet-meats, most dan¬gerous, Gen. vi. 2: “ The sons of God sawthe daughters of men, that they were fair,”&c. One would have thought, that theyshould rather have looked for grace in theheart, than for beauty in the face. Take careof inning at the fairest sign§; the swan hathblack flesh under her white feathers.2. Chase not by your hands for bountyof the portion.When Cato’s daughter was asked, why shedid not marry? she thus rcplyed, she couldnot find the man that loved her person23above her portion. Men love curious picture*butthey would|have them set in golden frames.Some are so degenerate, as to think anygood enough, who have but goods enough.Take heed, for sometimes the bag and bag¬gage go together. The person should hea figure, and the portion a cypher, whichadded to her advances the sum, but alonesignifies nothing. When Themistocles wasto marry his daughter, two suitors courtedher together, the one rich, and a fool; theother wise, but poor; and being demanded,which of the two he had rather his daughtershould have? he answered, malLem virum sine■petunia, &c. I had rather she should have aman without money, than money without aman.3. Chuse not by your ears, for the dignityof her parentage. A good old stock maynourish a fruitless branch. There are manychildren who are not the blessings, but theblemishes of their parents. They are noblydescended, but ignobly minded. Such wasAurelius Antoninus, ofwhomit was said, thathe injured his country in nothing, but being, the father of such a child. There are manylow in their decents, that are high in theirdeserts. Such as the coblcr’s son, who grewto be a famous captain; when a great personupbraided the meanness of his original, My•nobility, saith he, begins with me, but thynobility ends with thee. Piety is a greaterhonour than parentage. She is the bestgentlewoman that is heir of her own deserts,/ and not the degenerated offspring of ano¬ther’s virtue./23To present you with a good choice in 3things ;1. Chuse such a one as will be subj3ctto your dominion. Take heed of yokingyourselves with untamed heifers.2. Chuse such a one as may sympathizewith you in your affliction. Marriage is justlike a sea-voyage; he that enters into thisship, must look to meet with storms andtempests, 1. Cor vii. 28. “ They that marryshall have trouble in the flesh.” Flesh andtrouble are jnarried together, whether wemarry or no; now a bitter cup is too muchto be drunk by one mouth. A heavy bur¬then is easily carried by the assistance ofother shoulders. Husband and wife shouldneither be proud flesh nor dead flesh. Youare fellow-members, therefore should havea fellow feeling. While one stands safe onthe shore, the other should pity him that istost on the sea, Sympathy in sufferings, islike a dry house in a wet day.3. Cbuse such a one as may be serviceableto your salvation. A man may think hehath a saint, when he hath a devil; but takeheed of a harlot, that is false to thy bedand of a hypocrite, that is false to thy God.2dly, To those women who have hus-I bands, how to use them. In two things,1. Carry yourselves towards them withobedience. Let their power command you,that their praise maycommand you; Thoughyou may have your husbands hearts, yetyou must not have their heads; as you willhis love, so you should love his will. Tillthe husband leaves commanding, the wife24*must never leave obeying. As his injunc-tions. must be lawful, so her subjection mustbe loys l.2. With faithfulness In creation, Godmade not one woman for many men, normany women for one man. Every wifeshould be to her husbariE, as Eve was toAdam, a whole world of women; and everyhusband should be to his wife, as Adamwas to Eve, a whole world of men. Whena river is divided into many channels, the*main current starves.To conclude, good servants are a greatblessing; good children a greater blessing;but a good wife is the greatest blessing; andsuch a help let him seek for her that wantsone, let him sigh for her that hath lost one,let him take pleasure in her that enjoys one.“ And the Lord God said, It is not good,”kc.E I N I S.i