THEScots Piper’s Queries*John Falkirk sCAR RICHES.TO WHICH IS ADDEDHis Comical and Witty yokes,JuCl .1 ;'w’i J ' J 'J . C/A. X 'I When in Gourtfhip with an old Fid¬dler’s Widow, who wanted all theteeth. With a copy of a Love Let¬ter he fent to her, who was cOrti-monly called Flinging Betty. a-01 d John Piper if you defire,] ' T.o read at leiflire by the fire,:7u tH pleafe tbt'bairns and keep them tatigbing.And mind the Old Go oil wife o' her dajfn.F.JipSi’rj^f Fr’iited by J. Mornu.^ OF bCOTUND—■Tits Catechism deserves no Creed,It's only Jar boys that will not-readOn wiser books, them to instruct!Let drill John their fancy cook.The Scots Piper’s Queries,TT7HAT is the wifeft bebavi^ ^ our of ignorant perfons :A. To fpeak of nothing but what:they know, and to give their opinionof nothing but what they underftand-What time is a fcolding wife a*the beft ?A. When (he is faft afleep.What time is a fcolding wifeat the word ?A When (he is that wicked as tdtear the hair out of her head, when fhecan’t get at her neighbour’s, and thro-perfedt fpite bites her tongue with he:own teeth: my hearty widi is, that alfuch wicked vipers may ever do fo.What is the effedtual cure ancinfallible remedy for a fcolding wife3.fe A. The only cure is to get out ot thebring of her, but the infallible re-pedy is to nail her tongue to a grow-g tree, in the beginning of a cold,inter night, and fo let it (land tillai-rifingnext morning, flic’ll becomele the peaceableft women that every by a man's fide.1What time of the year is it thatiiere are moft holes open ?, A. In harvefl: when there are moftlubbles.^ Q, At whattimeisthecowheavieft?. A. ^iien the bull is on her back.11 Q. Whowas the goodman’s muckleow’s calf’s mother,j A. None but the muckle cow her-■erfelf.| What is the likeft thing to anan and a horfe ?A. A tailor on a mare’s back,j C)_ What is the hardeft dinner thatl tailor ever laid his teeth on ?A. His own goofe, though never foveil boiled and roafted.Q. How many tods tails will it take:o reach to the moon ?A. One, if it be long enough.t (X How rpany flicks gangs to vrDigging of a craw's nefl ?A. None, for they are all HarriettQ. How many whites will a wSmade pudding-prick need ?A. If it be well made it needs n!more. IIWho was the father of Zebjjdee’s children ?A. Who but himfelf. -*Q. Where did Mofes go when llwas full fifteen years old ?A. Into his fixteenth.Q. How near related is your auntgood-brother to you ? *A. No nearer than my own fathe:Q. How many holes[are there inhen’s doup ? A, TwtQ. How proi’e you that ?A. There is one for the dung an-another for the egg.Q. Who is the beft for catcbin;rogues ?A. None lb fit as a rogue himelf.Q. Where was the ufefuleft fair hScotland kept ? A, At MulguyQ; What fort ot commodities wenthere ?5iA. Nothing but ale and ill wickedves.How was it abolifhed ?!A. Becaufe thofe that went to iuce would go to it no more.R, For what reafon ?'A. Becaufe there was no money to; got for them, but fair barter, wife; wife, and he who put away his|fe for one fault, got another withro as bad.lU . 4 ■D What was the reafon that in thofejys a man could put away his wife forffing the bed and not for ih- --g it ?)A Becaufe he could fhute it away::th his foot and lye down.What is the reafon now a days,at men court, caft, marry, and re..arry fo many wives, and keep butlily one in public at lad ?. A. Becaufe private marriages are;:come as common as fmuggling, andackolding the kirk no more thoughtr than to ride a mile or two on hisleighbour’s mare ! men get will andIrale of wives, the bed portion, and[ ropered perfon is preferred, the firdfed, the weak to the word, and (hewhom he does not love, he ihutes?Way with his foot, and lies down wwhom he pleafey.‘ How will you know the bahof our town byothersin the kingdoiA. By their ill breeding and fcmannersCf What is their behaviour ?A, If you afk them a queftioncivility, if were but the road to ?next town, they will tell you to folltyour nofe, and if go wrong curfe tguide.O. Are young and old of thembetter ?A, All the odds lies in the diffence, for if you alk a child to wheV>e belongs, or who is his father,will tell 7011 to kifs his father’s a—*■o. What kind of creatures sjkihdlieft when they meet ?A None can exceed the kindn-of dogs when they meet in a markQ. And what iscolleyscondu&therA. Firh they kifs others moutand nofes, fmell about, and at laftall, they are fo kind as to kifs oth•below the tail.What is the coldeft part of a dog ?A. His nofe.Q. What isthecoldeftpartof aman?A. His knees.| Q. What is the coldeft part of a wo¬man ? A. The back part of her body.v> What’s the reafcn that thefethree parts of men, women and dogsare coldeft ?A. Fabulous hiftorians write, thatthere was three little holes broke inNoah’s ark, and that the dog put hisnofe in one, and another the man puthis knee in it, a third and biggeft holebroke, and the woman fet her back-fide into it; and thefe parts being ex-pafed to the cola blaft, makes themalways cold ever fince.And what remedy does the mantake to warm his knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire,and when in bed draws his fhirt overthem.Q. What does the woman do towarm their cold parts ?A. The married women turn theirbackilde about to the goodman’s bel¬ly ; virgins, and thofe mnd for mar-8riagej the heat of their maiden-heads!keeps them warm; old matrons and Iwhirl’d o’er maidens, widows, and wi¬dows bewitched, hold up their cold Iparts to the fire.And what remed}T does the poordog take for his cold nofe ?A. Staps it in below his tail, thehottefl bit in his bndy.What is the reafon that dogs areworfe on chapmen, than on any otherItiange people ?A. It is faid the dogs have three ac-cufations againft the chapmen, hand¬ed down from father to fon, or fromone generation of dogs to another: thefrft is as old as ^fop, the great witof Babylon, the dog having a law-fuitagainft the cat, gained the plea, andcoming trudging home with the de¬creet below his tail, a wicked chap¬man throwing his el wand at him* helet it fall, and fo loft his privileges.The fecond is becaufe in old timesthe chapmen ufed to buy dogs and killthem for their ikins. The third is,when a chapman was quartered in afarmer’s houfe, that night the dog loft,his property, the licking of the pot.Ch What creature refembles molla drunken piper;A. A cat when (he lips milk; fhealways lings, and fo does a piper whenhe drinks good, ale.What is the reafon a dog runstwice round about before he lies downA. Becaufe he does not know thehead of his bed from the foot of it.fh What creature refembles molla long, lean, ill-looking, greafy fac’dlady for pride ?A. None fo much as a cat, who iscontinually fpitting in her lufe andrubbing her'face, as many of fuchladies do their brown leather.Ch Amongffc what fort of creatureswill you obferve moll of a natural law?A. The hare and the hind meet atone certain day in the year; the broadgoofe lays her- firfl egg on FaOern’sEven, old ftile; the crows begin tobuild their nelts the firft of March, oldftile ; the fwans obferve matrimony,and if the female die, the male daresnot take up with another, or the reft3 0cviil put him to death.; all the birds ingeneral join in pairs and keep fo ; bat!the dove refembles the adulderer, forwhen the die one turns old, he pays,her away and takes another; the lo-cufts obferve military order and marchin bands; the frogs refemble pipersand preachers, for the young ride theold to death.Ch Who are the merrieft and heax-tieft people in the world ?A. The lailors, for they’ll be.ding¬ing and curling one another, whenthe waves, their graves, are going-o¬ver their heads.Which are the diforderlieft crea¬tures in battle ?A. Gows and dogs, for they all fallupon them that are neathrnoft.Q. Who are the vaineft fort of peo¬ple in the world ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young ioi-dier and poor dominieoWhat is the great caufe of thebarber’s vanity ?A. His being admitted to trim no¬blemens chafts, thyke their {'culls, takekings by the noie, and hold a razor toAXIto his very throat, which no fubje<9:elfe dare do.Q What is the great caufe of thetailor’s pride ?A His making of peoples nev?clothes, of which every perfon. youngand old, are proud of, then who can.walk vainer than a tailor carryinghome a gentleman’s clothes.What is the caufe of a youngfoldier’s pride ?A. When be lifts, he is free from hisi mother’s cdrre&ion, and the hard u-! fage of a bad mafter, has liberty toi curfe, fwear, whore, and every otherl thing, until convinc’d by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip, that he hasnow gbc-a military and civil law abovehis head, and perhaps vvorfc maftersthan ever."Q. What is the cauie of the poordominie’s pride?A. As he is the teacher of the youngland ignorant, he fuppofes no manI knows what he knows, and the boys) call him mafter, therefore he thinkshimfelf a great man.Q. What fort of a fong is it is thatning. without a tongue, and its notesare underftood by people of all nationsA. It is a fart, which every bodyIt nows to be but wind.Q. What is the reafon that youngpeople are yam, giddy-headed and ai¬ry, and not fo humble as in formertimes ?A. Becaufe they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty ftrain,by reading fables, plays and roman¬ces, gofpel books, inch as the pfalmbook, proverbs and catechifms arelike old almanacks; Nothing is nowim,vogue, but,fiddle, flute, Tory andBabylonidi tunes; our plain Englifhfpeech corrupted with beauifli cants,don’t, won’t, nen, and ken, a jargon !worfe than the Yorkihire 4iale6hWhy is fwearihg become ocommon amongft the. Scots people,?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teacherscome from the fouth among us, where Ifwearing is pra&ifed in its true gram¬matical perfection, hot' oaths, newflruck off, with as bright a luftre as anew quarter guinea. ,How will you know the bonesI .»r a maion’s mare at the back of aiyke, aTheiigft the bones of an hun-tired dead horfe ?A. Eecaufe they are made of wood,Cb Which are the two things notj:o be fpared, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat and a hiredhorfe.i "Ibe end of 'John Falkirk's Carriches.I 1 . ' V :f^{ t ' \v A N old gentleman and his two Tonsr ' being in a company, his eldefi»fon htting next to him, fpoke a wordtwhich highly difpleafed his Father, fortwhich his father gave him a hearty:blow on the fide of the head; a well,'laid he, I will not lift my hand toflrike my parent, but he gives his o-ther brother, that fat by him, a blowon the ear, faying, give, that about byway of a drink till it comes to my fa¬ther again.A failor travelling between Edin¬burgh and Linlithgow, which is i 2long computed miles.; and as he.wasfetting out in, the morning about eighto’clock, h#faw^ vain-like young (park14go running pad him, which he neverteminded, but kept jogging on at histiown leilure: and as he was going into hLinlithgow about twelve o’clock, up «|comes the young 1'park, and afked the pfailor what o’clock it was, Why, fajs ithe failor, I fee vqu have a watch andI have none, what is it ? Out he pulls !his watch, ho i faid he, it’s diredlytwelve, and what do you. think, it washalf an hour aft€r ten or I came outof Edinburgh, I have walked it in anhour and a half; it is pretty well tript,fays the failor, but pray hr, what manof bufinefs are you ? O! faid he, I ama watch maker. I was thinking fo/'faid the failor, for you have made thewatch anfwer your feet, for they can- 1not anfwer a right watch, and I hip¬po fs your-tongue cannot keep time ‘with either of them ; do you remem¬ber where you pahed me this morn¬ing about eight o’clock ? C yes, faidlie, and off he went.A'certain old reverend pried beingone night at-flipper in a gentleman’shoufe, and for one article having eggs,the ferver of the table laid a cloth on•V *4i ,tiy ojire’s knee for to hold their eggn .when hot; when fupper was overhe piled lookt down between his legs,..nd feeing the white doth, thought itvas his own Hurt tail, and verly llyiydaps it ill to his breeches, bit and bit,vhich the landlady, and the maid ob~n ved, but was afhamed to tell him ;ib home he went with the fervit in hisoreeches, and knew nothing of it till^oing to bed, when it fell from him :lis wife enquired how he came by it,ne could not tell, but was furprifeduow he came to have more bulk in hisoreechesthan formerly, but obferving:he name they fent it back again, theirieft pleaded to be excufed, ownedlimfelf only a thief in ignorance.As two maids were coming frommilking their cows, one of them flep-nng over a ftile, fell and fpilt thewhole paleful of milk from her head.□, faid fhe what will I do, what willl do ? Q, fai'd the other maid let it go,I who .can help it now, you can’t taket up again, it’s not your maidenead.iMy maidenhead, daid fhe, if it were|my maiden head, I would think no->lbtiung of it, many a time I have loftmy maidenhead with great pkafure,and it ay came back again to itsain place, but I’ll never gather upmy milk.A drover who frequented a publicinn in the north of England, as hepaired and repaffed, agreed with thefervant maid of the houfe for a touchof love; for which he gave her a fixand thirty fliilling piece : On the nextmorning he mounted his horfe, with¬out a iking abiil or what was to pay;but fir, (aid the landlord, you forgotto pay your reckoning: Well minded,fir,: 1 forgot my change the maid wascalled in all hafle ; yes, faid fhe I gotit, but it was not for that, throws itdown and off Ihe goes: her miftrefsigave her the challenge, (he told her itiwas fo, but file fliould be Up with:him Twelve months after, he com¬ing paft with his drove, puts up at thafanie inn, as formerly : The girl thencgoes to a neighbour woman, who had a*young child about three months old,Jlays it on the table; faying, fir, there’s?the change of your fix and thirty and!I?u\yay ihe comes: The child cries, andkhe bell’s rung, the landlord was readynenough to anfwer. O fir, faid the dro¬ller, call her back, for this will ruinmy family, and crack my credit-; butfir, faid the girl, you thought nothing:o ruin my character and crack mymaidenhead. Peace, peace, faid he,my dear, here’s one hundred and fif¬ty pounds, and take away the childand trouble me no more. Well, faidthe, I wilLtake. it, and you’ll makemore of buying cows than maiden¬heads ; fo away fhe came with themoney and returned the borrowed.thild to its own mother.Three merty companions havingmet on a Saturday night at an ale-toufe, (a hatter, a {hoe-maker, and ajailor) where they drank heartily allchat night, and to morrow until mid¬day : and their beats were who hadi::he lovingeft wife. So they agreedcor a trial of their good nature, that’.every man (hould dp whatever his wife>ibid him do as foon as ever he wentonome; who did not as (he ordered himi.vas to pay all the reckoning, which13came to feven and fixpence ; or it alit:of them did as their wives bid therrathen they were to pay all alike. S :on this agreement they all eame awayfirft to the hatter’s houfe, and in hgoes like a mad man, dancing amjumping round the floor, his wife wataking off the pot and fetting it on thfloor, he flill dancing about, ding over the pot with thy madnefs; fo hgives it a kick and over it went, amthat faved him, as he had done whahis wife bade him- do. Then awa^they go to*the tailor’s houfe, in he geedancing likewife, but his wife fell ifcolding him : O, lays he, give me ikifs? kifs my arfe you drunken roguefaid {he, then to her flies and lays heon the bed up, with her petticoats amkifles her arfe before them all, anathat faved him. Then away they wento the flioe-maker’s, and in he goevery merry, and dancing about as hilaw the other two do, faying come m\dear heart, and give me a kifs? Gdhang yourfelf you drunken dog, faitfee, fo he muft either go and hanghimfelfdiredlly, or pay the reckoning?r9An lioncft Highlandman not longilnce, not much acquainted with law,fell out with one of his neighbours,and to the law they went; he employ¬ed one advocate, and his oppofite an-nother, and as they were debating itin court before the judges, the high¬landman being there prefent, a friendon his fide afked him how he thoughtit would go, or who would gain theday, indeed fays the highlandman hislaw man fpeaks well, and my lawmanfpeaks well,> I think we’ll both win,and the judges will lofe, for they fpeakbut a word now and then.A young woman by the old acci¬dent having got herfelf with child, wascalled to the feflion for fa doing, andafter one elder another examining herhow (he got it, and where fhe got it,and what tempted her to get it j andno doubt the deel wad get her for thegetting it: and laft of all the minilterfell a enquiring how flie got it, whichrun the poor lafs out of all patienceabout the getting, fays the pried, tellme plainly where it was gotten ? I tellyott, faid fhe it was gotten in the byre,20at a cow’s flake, and what other placewould you want to ken about ? butfaidhe* did he not tye you to the cow’sflake? No, laid fhe, I did not needany tying ; and how far was betweenthe byre and the houfe ? Juft but andben, up and down twa (laps'of a flaneHair : Then fays the pried; why; didyou not cry to the folks'in the houfe?indeed fir, fays fhe, I could not getcried for the laughing at itA foldier being on a forlough fromthe north of Scotland, haying got nobreakfaft, fell very hungry by the wayand no alehoufe being near, came into a farmer’s houfe. and wifhed themto fell him fome bread, or any kind ofvictuals ; to whch the furly goodwifereplied, fhe never fold any bread, andwas not going to begin with him, hehad but three miles and a bittock toan alehoufe, and he might walk on,as fhe did fair enough when die giedbits of bread for naething to beggars,. tho’ fhe gied nane to idle foldiers, hehad naething to do there awa’. Hout,laid the goodman, gie’m a ladlefu’ o’our kail, he’s been fomebody’s bairn21before he was a foldier. What! faidfile, there’s not a drop in the pot, theyare a’ in the plate before you ; thengie’m a fpoon and let him fup wi’ us.The foldier gets a fpoon, and think¬ing he could fup all hefaw, the firft fuphe took, he fpouted back again in tothe plate, and cries out, O my foremouth, the hide’s yet all off fince I hadthe clap; every one throwing down hisfpoon, the foldier got all to fup him-felf; the wife flood curling and fcold-ing all the time, and when he was doneburnt both plate and fpoon to preventthe clap. So the foldier came off witha full belly, leaving the wife dreflingthe goodman’s rigging with a fourfooted llool for bidding him fup.A churlifh man and a virtuous wife,one time fell out,becaufe the wife hadgiven fomething to the poor, what, faidhe miftefs, TH let you know there isnothing about this hbufe but what ismine: Well, well, goodman, then youwill let me have nothing, take it all3 and give me peabe; fo away they went| to bed, and the. good wife turned herbacklide toward the goodman, and as22he was falling afleep, file draws up herfmoke and lets fly in the goodman'sfliirt tail, which awakened him in asgreat fright as he had been fliot; ay,ay, woman, what are ye about ? whatam I about faid flie: dear woman youare filling the bed Not I goodman, for ,when my arfe was my own I took careof it, and take ye care of it now, it isyours. O rife woman and dean thebed, and keep your arfe and a’ the li¬berty ye had before, and more, if yewant it; feigh, what’s this, I’m a’ dirt.A (hips crew being one-time in greatdiftrefs at fegt, by reafon of a violentftorm and being all fallen down to pr -yer, expedting every moment to go tothe bottom: there happened to be anold gentleman, a. paffenger on boardwith them* who had a great big rednofe, with drinking ale and whifky ;and being all at their lail prayers asthey thought, a little boy burft: out in¬to a loud laughter; O thou thought-lefs rogue,faid the captain, what makesthe laugh, feeing us all on the point of iperifliing ? Why faid the boy, I can- kfcot but laugh for to think what fine r23fport it will be when we are all drown¬ing, to fee how that man’s red nofewill make the water biz when it comesabout it; at which words they all fella laughing and cherifhed the crew, iothat they made another attempt toi weather out, and got all fafe alhore ati iaft,John Falkirk's Love Letter to the Fid¬dler's WidowMy lovely Bet, the beauty of oldage, thy hoary head, and louching' ihoulders incline to mortality ; yet Iwill compare thee to the Eagle thathas renewed her youth, or leek witha white head and a green tail, thiscomes to thee with my kind compli¬ments for kifles of thy lips and thekindnefs I had for thy late bed •fellow,) Tiddler Pate, my brother penftoner ;ah! how we drank others healths withthebroe of thebucketewes, webroughtfrom boughts of the German Boors ;but it’s nonfenfe to praife the dead,? when in the dull, yet a better Vialernever freeded on a filken cord, orI kittledacat’s trypes wi’his finger-ends.24his elbows were fupple as an eel, am;his fingers dabbed at the jigging cm,like a hungry hen picking barley : Jleldom or ever faw him drunk, anclkeep him from whificy,orwhiiky fronjhim; except that night he tryfted thfj*free-ftone pair of breeches from Jdlfeph the mafon : and now, my deaaBeyfiy, he’s got them, he’s got them!for a free-ftane covers his body, holdthim down, and will do; and now, novimy dainty thing, match for matrimo-iny, come tak me now or tell me nmrI’m in danger, I’ll wait nae langer ; 1fay be clever, either now or never, it’s)a rapture of love which does me move!I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if Ihefhould be blind and cripple ; I’ll fellmy wind for her meat and fufl, thelike ne’er gaed down her ^hrapple yfo now Befly 1 love you,- my love liesupon you; and if you love me not a-gain, fome ill chance come upon you^as I am fly ting free, I am both inlovehnd banter, or may your rumpleirust for me; I have fworn it by mychanter.' F I N I S. ' I