THEVifions, Discoveries, and WarningsOF THEDreadful and terrible Judgements%UPONScotland, England, and Ireland,WHICH WERE REVEALED TOJOHN PORTER of Crossibeig.Taken from his own Mouth, (while confined■ to his Bed, being blind) and attested by him-felf, as by his Declaration annexed.Joel ii. 28, 30, SI, 32.“ And it ftuli «',me to psfs, that l will pour out my Spirit upon all“ flefh, and your fons and your daughters (hall prophesy, and your“ cli ’nen Gull dream dreams, and your young mtn (hall fee vifions.« An(j [ wiU (hew them wonders (n the heavens, aad in the earth,blood and fire, a *1 pillars of fmoke. The fun (hall hs turned intou daruntfs, and the moon into blood, before that great and terri.1 c*■ day of the Lord. And it (hall come to pafs, that whofoever (hall“ call oh the name of the Lord, (hall be delivered.’’GLASGOW:PublHhed by J* Lumsdeh & So*.1120.Yxfions, Difcoveries, Warnings, and Judgimerits, &c. which were revealed, to Joh[Po rteu. of Crossibeig.IN a dream, being (landing as l thought, upon tbraes of Ayr, 1 went to a little height near the towand looking about to the city. 1 obfcrvcJ two coachall black, going up the river lide towards tke fonth,fuch quick motion, as if they had not touched the groanand as I looked after them, there came one to me, ari|a(ked me. What 1 looked upon ? I atifw-jed, two coaces, the which 1 never faw tire blacker: He faid, 1 wi|tell thee what thefe are, it is the devils going to cembitogether to go to Rome to make the Pope to fend Antchrift to Scotland, to bring on a ftrqke and get a fatal fai2. At another time I apprehended a great light, and ithe light I law before me in large letters, lire Lord is*:bout topfead a corrtroverfy with Scotland, England, anIrlland, for a defpifed and (lighted GptpeU3 At another time, being awake, but being incapablijto know where 1 was. 1 appreheiyied by ?. vi inn of'light 1that I was in tke open fields fitting by the highway fide ifand fauv a company of men walking by •, s, and every on |of them had in their right hand, a large bloody napktt |hangirg down, upon which I perceived Prge letters; !|afleed the meaning of that which l f.iw u-.on the cornerof the napkin; It was anfwered, ItAvas tne n?mes of the ■twelve apbilles of the Lamb. And lockin g after them, 1faw them come to the gates of the cir~-. and i,c, they entered 'in, each one took a bloody ch ut on* of his pocket, andthrew it down at the thfefhhold of the door, with whichIfhey wiped their feet as they went in ; then 1 ulked, whameaner! the clouts? It was anfwered, it was the cuftomiin noblemens’ houfes to have old cad clouts iaid down at:their doors t<v wipe their feet as they cami; in : for noiunclean thing (hall enter into the new Jerufalem ; andthea, Poking in at the gates of the city, T perceived agreater number of people in a large room th an I can ex-'pi ’ss, having every one of them a bloody ta pkin in theirViftonS) Warnwgi, mid Judgements3 ^ L •, 4'. After the fanne manner, I apprebeuJed I was walk¬ing through a little town, and faw, as it had been, a feu?fheep and lambs, forced put of a houfe. purftied by a dog,and palTinn by the diror, [ looked in, and favv a Itunb, which1 apprehended was not able to fellow the reft ; then ?.faw one come to it, which f took to be its mother, ytefas I looked upon her, ! faw one of.ber tides open, r.s if ithad been the leaf of a window, and thus looking, onecame to me, and a filed, What I looked upon ? 1 anfwer-ed, a few fneep and lanbs purfued by a dog, be faid, 1i will tell thee what it means ; this generation feeketh to| deitroy my little fiock, but, ere long, 1 will give them a-nolher bone to gnaw upon, for I will bring ra the king| of Spain with an invincible army for the abide of my gof-ipel, which was the renown of this land, and made it fa-imous in other churches, for the minilters of this churchEie turned into divifions and factions among themfelves ;for which 1 will daft them one against another. And as l^looked 1 perceived a long roll coming to me, which ligbt-W upon my knees, upon which I perceived three lines(drawn length ways; l uni’erllond the letters, but not thewo'c'r, uprn which a rnan came to me, and afited, whatI was looking upon.? L anfwered, upon a written toll, butjkotild not underfianc the language thereof: he faid, l williijltew thee the meaning thereof; L’il bring againfi this land,1 people of a {bangt language and a fierce countenance,ijvhofc fpeech thou ftalt not underftand, and they (halljjriarch through the whole land, to execute my judgements,|or broken covenants and bloodfted of ray fervanis; andpur defpding and flighting of my gofpel. I was aflced a-||ain, wnat feeft thou ? J anfwtred, a log of timoer,S|ri:h two running ftreams, L was a Iked what was theblotr of them ? I anfweied. the one is blackift and dark,e eg her bright and clear. Then he bade me tatle thee that was black ; and dipping my finger in it, l foundbitter. i'hen, he dtfued me to tafte that which was:ar; the which when 1 did, L found it fwe.et; he an-■ered, the bitter is the cup that is put in the hands ofii generation., and the fweet is the.cup that the remnant£ to receive aturwards. ihen he slked whatVifions, Warnings, and ^JudgementsthouThendo for me, or rather, whatit came upon my heart with(hall I do for theeftvch power, thatcall an open door, to ph’ad both for myfelf and his re:nant, (in which l found p;reat liberty-.) that he woufpare a temnant and not make a full end in the day of if23}»er, at the fc-me time l faw four lines drawn beforewhich ye will find in Pfal !'2d. A feed (hall fervice dohim, unto the Lord it fhall be for a generation reckoned |ages all5. Another time I was awakened out of my fieep, w:a great eoice, which Lid unto me, this year (hall byear o! great confufnn, fueh as was not iince the yking Uzziah died ; lor the mother (hail forget her fuck!child, and the father the fon of his old age, for theirbe t cry made, to go forth and meet the iipanifh army,he that goes forth to meet that army, (hall not find ato take him by the hand to a(k how he doth ; and he twill not leave houfe and family, and go to the field•Chrit and his inteteft : for I will bring a broke upon r|lafld, »!>d n>ne fh 11 efcape from the king to the begand that for the many fins, particularly thrfe three,Broken and ‘'unit covenants, and the blood-ihed of tthat tcliified againid the fame, and a defpfied and sliggofprl6 At another time, being overpo wered with a great lija confiderabie writing was laic! before rne, which 1 crnr>t undcr^end, but at length I perceived an tjpreflv.z. Come hrar, all ye that (tar ibt- Lord, and t will)you what I am to bring upon this generation ; I haveen you my gofptl m pun y and plenty, for more thanty years, in which 1 laid before them, all the bltfiingstrounced in the book of D uteronomy, and all the etipronounced on mount Ebal againlt the difobedient, yetgofpel lacked fome things among them. There seasral things laid before me, which 1 cannot rememberas 1 was turning from looking upon it, was Lidwas one thing that was lacking vi?. The light of|countenance, I will »az this generation, as a man rapiece of ground to provide his turf, i will run upon'nf xgeneration as a man treading mortar, running back*upon Scotland, England, and Ireland. £I'.hc■and forward, treading upon the higheil places; And as Ilive faith the Lord, the houfe of Eli fhsli not efcape, i. e.The great ones (halt not be nail for their greatnefs, nore poor for his poverty •; and that for 'the'following rea-jfons The gtcat ones were concerned in the tnaking ofthefe covenants, and the poor dfo ; and it lhall be found{that the great, ones were concerned in breaking of them,and the poor likewife, and both were concerned in thenlood of «hofe, who teftihed againft the breaking and burn-ling of thele covenants.7 I was at another titne allowed to proclaim a cora-itn'ffion, withal faying, there were tr.inifters in the place,and a fee of judicious men and Chndians, who were morej!it than I, who is both blind and lame : to which I wasjaiifwered. as it were wi h an angry countenance, I havejiaid thee there 'or feven rears on that bed, for that end Ifive krpt thee, which thou wilt not believe ; and if thouuuinue in refilling, f will (hew thee examples both fromlip'ure and experience, that 1 have done to fach as wouldflnot believe. Then came to my remembrance, what hejhal done to the unbelieving lord at the gate of Samaria,i Then he prefduted the c mm tlion to me. go and proclaimi;a facritice in Uoict ah which wiil come upou the land of 1-iduniea, which Is tlite, O wretched Scotland For 1 willHcall the fowls of the air and the beads of t! e fi H, to eatThe fleth of khi rj, of captains, and of great ones, who havetfhed the blood of my fervants, that te*lihed againft theh caking of thefe covenants, for I am wounded in my^members by this generation, and nothing will heal that. vwciKid but a plaider of the blood of thefe that wotwided»^me ; which plaider I am about to make up. Ihrrtly.j|j 8. And at ancther time 1 perceived a great army, betwixtGitvan and Ayr, ail in black, and oblerved a moving to¬wards the land. Again I perceived another army of foot,that came and took up their grourd, and they flood,each of them upon their own ground: and as 1 was muf-ing and looking with great Concern upon them, l faw oneall in white, who Lid, let that not trouble thee, I willbuild thee a fure houie, better than that or fons and daugh¬ters, faith the Lord. Then l heerd another faying uut*$TifionS) Warnings, and judgementsme, be not a afiaH of that great army, for thou fhalt jf!them no more. I had not moved my feet feven yar iotill I faw that army fall to the ground, as if they had be Iah (truck with one (tone Then returned the vifion p:tlight, which faid, now I have let thee fee that great armfaof 000 all fall to the aground.A memorable initanee not to he forgot, but to be a meir|sml of my refnrn to the poor Church of Scotland, for r11return (hall yet be grra' in this land, for I will have |rr.O'e ado with Antichrist in my church, for I will gihim a Itc ke, and the report thereof fhall be heard thro’twhole world.9 At another time, as 1 was viewing the viCon of lig1 perceived one com rg down with a great ax in his righand, and turning hirr.fclf upon a Hep, he fet his one foh'gher than tire ether, and the hand with the ax onright knee, and (wore with an oath by him that liveth fever and ever ; yea, ere long, Britain fhall know whatmy commiffion with the axfor thou (halt not fee it.10 That at another time, 1 heard atabove me, as it had bear one making aanother faying, what aikth the child,snoan ? The child laid, we will all bechurch ij filled fu'l of fuperiliticn, and damnable herefksit was anfwered, that needs not trouble thee, thou hanothing to do with t' at, it lies at the door of rainillers, k]them fee to that ; the child anfwered, we fullaiu the painljand tire lofs, for we will all be berried, for our church is fulfof thieves and robbers.11. At another time, lying upon my bed waking, thereappeared to me, the likenefs of a woman with a ghofllycountenance, which palled with a great motion by my bed.Hock to the other fide of the houfe, and looking at me withan angry vifage, clapping her hands together, fevera.l timesat me, and l overheard her, as talking with another, andoame over the fame eifeourfe I had with another perfon thatThuriday befche, and faid to the other, he hath madethe honed people that they cannot hear his name named,and ethers to mock and have him, in derihen, which willhbut let]not that trouble the|a great diflanegreat moan, an!to make fuckruined, for ouflupon Scotland, England, and Ireland. Jmake tiim that he had better be off the world than vponThen one of them aflted me, what was that I had doo-e-?'and repeated the torrre-r difcourfes to f»e, and faid, lineshou haft done fo, 1. will learn thee a way to mind it, denyi[:hou faid fo, 1 anfsrered, how can f do that ? I have toldt to fome that will be believed, though I (hould fay to theContrary : but he (fill continued with temptations and ter-;ible threatnings, to that purpofe, till at iaft 1 was made to:>y out, O Lord, rebuke him, for he will not be rebukedby me. Then ail difappeared.12. That in Nov 1729,. I thought 1 was (landing inhe open fields, and faw a man coadag to me with a big:up of blood in his hand, which, when 1 beheld, he toldline, he had a commifiion to divide that cup into lefl’urI nips among five cities: then L (aw live cups in his other handj‘o to be divided ; he named Edinburgh, GLfgow, andAyr, as for the other two, 1 do not poltrively remember: hem. Vvrhic!i bLod was to purge thele cities of blood,jijior I will purge them till 1 bring my remnant to fay, whatave we to do any more with idols.13 On this fame month l faw two living creatures hav¬ing fix wings, two covered their tacM, two. coy?red theirUeet, and with two they did fly, and they cried, Holy, holy' Lord God Almighty, glory be to thee who ball faid, f v<11Ijbot give my glory to another, nor my praife to graven inu-u;es. I vtiil not give my glory to Englilh nor Irifi), tojjiFrench nor .Spaniard, to Pope, nor Pagan, but 1 willif! ke the glory to myftlf, and will cover myfelf with a cloudju mine anger, that they (hail not fee my face, and l wiltfrun upon my enemies, and tread them as mire in theiiftreets, and will fatiate the earth with their blood as withIfluRg, and then 1 will take mine anger and the rod, and tyehem togeiher, and throw them in the furnace11. At another time it was laid before me, that it wa«h token of j udgements to come upon the land, that the mi*jntfters were fo unconcerned when the Lord was about t-*Jbring a defolating ftroke both by fea and land, the fmokeI whereof fhill be feen from one land to another, that in'fome harbour, there (hall fcarcely one house be left tq tellanother, yonder a (hip coming into the harbour.r8-HMiiiliflVifionsy Warnings, and JudgementsIS. It was hid before me, that the Lord was aboutpurfue the blood of his Lrvants, from the year'1661 to cd. y, and nothing will piuge bload but blood, and whit is accornplifhed. it wdl be faid as the queen of Shtba fito Solomon, that the one h Jf was not told or whathad found . F.ir l have two fwords drawn, that ofortigij and that of an birdt.ne enemy, and if ye find ai]favour it wdl be at the hand of the foreign enemy.!6. At smother time 1 was a vakened with ami-y fayinthis is a feeond time 1 have come unto thee, wi.h tWinning, but thon regarded more the town talk of tjCoumtry than my warnings, but 1 will make thee an in:pillar and a brazen wall againfl this generation ; fpetherefore that 1 commandsthet, led 1 confound thee b<fore them. I do not fay as before, a facrihce in Bi znabut 1 fay a facrilice in thee, wretched Scotland ? for I widye the grou id with blood from Gath hill, to Irvine wter, for I will purge my church of popery, and prdac;and all tether errors, which are not according to the trepnncip'cs of the church ; fot I will bring a fmall armwith a fe w mini tiers of the principles of the mountain mefometime ago nicknamed wirigs, and they fhall be the truifeed of the .church.17 The reafon why I was defiro-us 'o acquaint otherswith what was kid before me, was becaufc of tire forebuke bad for negkdUng it. I apprehended 1 heard twrmen coming- by the honfe, the one laying to the other, Ihave an old blind man in this houfe, I mull fpeak to hirrbefore 1 go any further ; and turning myfelf on my bed, 1faw a young man in b'ight clothing, who laid to me, what1 have laid before thee deny it not, but maintain it, anJwhat thou hail not fpeikm, fper k, and what other things1 Jay before thee conceal them not, whether they hear orwhether they ’orbear ; they (hall know that 1 have laid theethere for that end, and thru (halt not want a reward, for1 never bade any man lerve me for nothing ; and if thoudifobey my commiffiuo, 1 will till thy bed with a fulphure-ous fmoke, that none lhall be able to come near thee, andleft thou be drfeouraged about where the f noke (hall comefrom, 1 will open the mouth of the bottomkla p-rt, the ha-upon Scotland, England, and Ireland.filiation of tV.ofe that difobey my convmanda and let theefee what fmoke cometh ouc of it ; upon which ] was af¬frighted, that 1 came under a fole.ir.fi promife that whathe would keep upon my memory 1 Ih mki not conceal it,though it coft me my life : but it was f.iid unto me, whatthou doft not remember 1 will not charge thee for it, 1anfwered, 1 wanted health. 1 wanted fight, and fd was un¬fit to publifh it, to which it was anfwcred, 1 lent them tothy bed (lock to receive what thou hadft to fay to them,but thou didft not fpeak but took other obligations thatthey fltould not fpeak what thou told them- before18. Jan. 12th. 1730. Being awaked, it was laid to me,1 am as a bear bereaved of her whelps, that can nattiermeet n.sn nor bead but tear them in pieces, ! had once abonny bairn time of bairns in Scotland, which they bereavedme of, lome of them they (ent to foreign 'ands and plan¬tations, others they drowned ki the fea, other* thev kill¬ed in the fields upon gibbets and £c»ffolds, for which 1will drive them out of their houfes as (keep are driven in aftormy day before the ftprm, feeking for fheltcr, but findnone. I will caufe my mouth to go thro this generation,as a ftorm of fnowgoeth through a wood, where the high-eft trees and thickeft branches, receive moft of the ftorm ;f will leave their houfes without rib or roof, and their fub-ftance, as corn in the fields, that hath neither corn corchaff. And the fame day, abc ut twilight, there fhined agreat light about me, fuch as 1 never faw before for bright-_nefs, which fo overpowered me, that 1 knew' not whether1 was in the body or out of the body, and it was faid to me, 1am a merciful God, and be that repenteth and fleeth to mefor mercy, by forfiker. their fins, the generation to comefhall not .remember that there was fuch a generation in theplace. 1 have a remnant in this place whom 1 will whipas a father doth bis fbn that ferveth him, 1 will not dealwith this church as 1 have dealt with other churches, whom1 have left never to return again, as the feven churches ofAfia, for t have a remnant of men and women in this 1 nd,fuch as 1 have not found the parrtllcl oi in any church be¬tide, wench have taken faft hold of me by their prayers ofIQ Vijtons, Warnings, and Judgementsfaith, they have fallened their ,grips fo that they :!1 cotlet me go, for the cry of their prayers hath come up be¬fore me, and oatreacheth the cry of their fins, for whichI will make the voice of the prayers of my remnant to beheard in fuch acclamations of joy, as (hall make the veryearth rebound and echo, and the delivery fo clofe afterthe ftrokt, a« can hardly be difeovered, a firnile was giv¬en me, of two bufh-'s growing fo clofe together, that the•ne could not be difaernecl from the other, until theywere cut down and drawn afunder.19- Upon Sabbath, about cock-crowitig, f was awakenedout of deep with a fharp rebuke, thus, how often (hall 1rebuke thee for concealing the defolating ilroke comingupon the land, which 1 laid before thee fo often, for whichthhu hail brought thyfelf very near that woid^ he thatdenieth me before nw’ii. him will I deny before rry Fatherwhich is in heaven : yet l own thee to be faithful, parti-yrtdarly the lad morning when I fent two men to thy houfe,itiou difeovered to them what I laid before thee, that theymay know that it came from me; 1 own that my remnanthave taken hold of me by prayer, that they will not let mego, for which my remnant will be so gteat in the land,that houfes to dwell in, or a piece of land will be as ill toget as it is at this day. At the fame time it was laid unto.ne, I know the reafon thou art fo loth to tell my rebukes,becanfe of reports and country talk, for. I hear it isthe report of fome, that what thou spake it was wrong ;hue this generation (hall know whether it was right orwrong fpoken, but thou muttered it as n^erddo gear thief-flolen, which duril not be avowed, but remember, him thatconfeflhth me before men, him will I confessjlbeFore myFather which is in heaven, and therefore lay fotth my co:n-nitfllon before the world, let them take it as they will.‘29. As l fali to thee long ago, there was not fuch ayear frnce that when King Uziiah died, as ihsli fall out atthis tlms, and in a few ye^rs, which is to let you know, thattime is rnyown. No man is to know itfurther than 1 pltafe.t will drew particular fig ns to the world of that year ccpu’ng,but ye (hall not know when they come, nor the nature ofthem for they (hall fpeafc for themfrdves when they come-.upon Scotland, England, and Ireland. 1121. Jan 13. At night, being awake, I was inftnntly:j eaft into a deep fleep, and it was faid u: to rr.e, 1 have cad,] you into a trarce to difcover things unto thte, and I fawij a white fheet, let down fwn a great height to the bed-! fide, tied at the four corntrs, and fettled, as 1 thought, upon' my knees, and taftening my eyes upon it I law upon onefide, a part of every fort of fowls, and at the other iiue cut.; pieces of flefh, and as I was thinking upon it, it was faidto me, 1 will tell thee the meaning, the fowls are the gene-'rality.of this generation, and the ftefh is the remnant,; which is to let thee fee the good and bad live in cne cofn-; munity together, and none of them will eicape my iltpkettiat will come upon this land, for l am provoked to angerby this generation in this place by the following fins, ptide,i whoredom, curfing, fwearing, lying, dealing, and walking1 contrary to my 'commands every way, that t am provoked| even by their buying and feilirtg, for which 1 have t.vo• rods, the rod of mine anger, and the rod of my jealotify,(wherewith I will even purfue them to the wildernefs of Zin,and ther* will 1 let them fee the want of bread and water., 22. Another time being awake, there was a voice fpokei'l to me faying, that the ifie betwixt Kin tyre and Carriek ;11which Ihould occafion great blood both in the call and weftillof Scotland, and particularly in the fonth of Carriok ; then1 perceived four fhips, which received a commiffion tojticonae to Lochkillicran, called the (hips of Tarfhifh, which,irwere to raze this place by burning houfes, which ihouldthe inhabitants to fiee to the mountains, they thattake hold of me by prayer for their refuge, will be.iafe ;•but tholv. that take not hpid of me for their fhelter, tho'4|the common enemv ihould not purfue them, yet they (hallnot e fcape my judgements which I will in (Let upoji them,whether by peitiienv.e or any other firoke ; for there are ima*cy (hips gathered hither, feme for plunder, forr.d for ae-•omplifhing tlic ftroke, yet they (hall be all broken, -endfeattered by very fmail means, particularly f apprehendo fmall fhip, which fought a great parcel of theft: ftiips-rii. In the lame month, as I was fitting in m.y bed, f■faw as it bad teen thefhape of an ax, laid before me in thdbed all cruflied together in one lamp, and the houffcl ofr12 Vi/iens, Warnings, and judgementsit out of all (hap;, and while 1 looked upon it, it was fatdunto me, 1 will (hew thee the meaning : this is the king ofFrance’s armies, which (hall be made that they (hall nei¬ther ent nor fell in the time wheu he hath molt ado withthem. A little thereafter in the morning* in a furprifmgmanner, it was faid to me, 1 hare got more lofs in mychurch by the king of France that by any prince in Eu¬rope, for he hath brought my church in. that land to a very(mail remnant (if any) for which 1 will make hnssat ihetop of a rock, that hath neither grafs nor earth.24. Being, afleep, 1 apprehended 1 faw a man, as 1 waswalking in the fields, coming to me, 1 alked him. What■he had in his hand ?■ He anfwered, it is a crown. 1 haveoften made offer of >t to thee, and thon refuted it ; 1 faid,1 do not defire a crown, neither would take it ; he replied,Go on in revealing what 1 have laid before thee, and thoulhalt not want thy reward ; but if thou refufe to declarewhat 1 lay before thee, ] will make thee an example, fuchns there never was the like laid on a bed before thee.Eaftening mine eyes on the manat a diltance from me 1 lawa great Hone fall on a fudden, as from the very clouds,betwixt him and me, and he faid. As thou halt feeri this(lone fall on a fudden, fo 1 will bring the (broke upon thisgenerSUon, but yet they will not believe it, till it come totheir very door, and thou (Ink not fee it2o. Jan 16. 1730. It u-as fa^to me, 1 Cent thee oneof the bailies of Campbleton., to whom thou discoveredmany things, which had been la d before thee, and he com¬ing home did not conceal the fame, which made the mini-(lers and fome others come to thee, to whom rdou aliogave a large account rf things laid brfore thee, wi-.ich theyhave not difeovered, except to fome principal men of ti’iecity, and in fo doing they have wronged this generation.26. At another time I faw a creature, the liktnefs of afowl, and as 1 wondered what it could be, 1 heard as i‘ ithad been the voice of one afking what 1 looked upon ? 1laid, a fowl, but cannot mnierttand what it is. I was j|snfwered. This is the-red dragon fpoken of in the Revela¬tion, which fought with Michael and hip anpels. which wa.4ithe occafiofl of iljefe bloody napkins an whici thou faw the-upon Scothnid^ England-, and Ireland. 131 names of the twelve apofUes and the Lamb, which 1.({hewed thee a great while ago. 1 was a/ked agai". Whatifeeft thou? 1 anfwered, a white throne ; and it was re-,i plied, The Lord hath eredled a throne upon the earth, forif the Lord hath faid he will come down, and fee if the finsef the-land be according to the cry thereof, if not, he willJknow, for he is about to execute his wrath upon this land,ifbr many fins, particularly for breach of covenants betweenei man and man, and between nation and nation, and perfonalcovenants at hi, table; but efpecially the fole.r.n leagueand covenant, which was made in my name- for. which Ii will poiir out my wrath ; but 1 hav: remnant which fhallefcape, for thefe ends, led the enemy Ihm'.d m^ck and layfto them, is this the reward of your prayers, and fail ings,and communions, and all the niceties you have obferved,.1 fince it fares with you as with uu ? 1 have kept you fo manyI years blind, that ms remnant may underftand, that it wasinot nifeovertd by any other light, for it is gone abroadliatnong my enemies. That an eld blind man that hath lain foTtniMy years up» n his bed, is ma le to difeover all thefe fe-itorets and defigns, which makes them aflomfhed.i1 27- Feb. 1 About two in th.e afternony, being furprised■iwith a great light : it was faid to me. Mail 1 be account-| able of my delivery to thee, fo thou for thy receivingprom me, ir.vjft Pond before the judgement feat of Chrili,Mend witnefs thy delivery to this generation. 1 know thoup: aft omitted a great pert, which thy memory could not(contain, for which 1 do not quarrel thee 1 t ike heaven■[and earth to witn-fs that 1 am laying before thee the fallhof Babylon, and men of Rornffh- Anticlirift. i was f> taken‘ with thefe words, that 1 made my appeal, that 1 re >uMPtconceal nothing that he rcould keep upon my memory.Then 1 mis anfmered, 1 am preparing a f.icrifice in Ba¬bylon mhigh mill make the fowls of the air, and beaftsof the field to eat the fi Ih, and drink the blood of An'i-chrft, according to. that {c’lpfore, Rev. xvi. 1. &c For1 have a remnant that wi'l take warning, and Lave herfins, which w 11 e! ape her judgements, but there i. an(’unaccountable multitude w'lich 1 w;ll fw vp cw:v in herddtruftion : For thofe whom the fw wd Ihall Lave the14 Vificns, Warnings, and Judgementsfam'ne and peftilence fhall find out, and I will bring a na¬tion, fuch as was not in my land fince the vilk tion inIreland. Thr fun and moon (hall be concerned, as theywefe at the time when Ifrael avenged themfelves on theirenemies. All this I had in the vilion of light.28. Another time I faw a man coining to me, who faidhe had no great cotnmiffion at the time, only, the devilhad taken his journey, totex’Gite and ftir up the inftruments,who were to accomplilh the defolating ftroke and fall ofAntichriil in this land.29. Feb. 9. After the fame manner I heard one faying,I will drive this generation in my smger, as the fraoke of afurnace is driven, which no man can gather or bring backwhere it ; for I will make their aihes like a furnacethat burnetii, which, when it is pad, men go and look intothe furnace, and can fee nothing but a,dies ; for the moilpart of this generation makes a mock at all my warningsof judgements, but they (hall all be accomp'ifhed withina few years, as 1 have told thee in feme warnings before.Jan. 13. Thefe fins, breach of covenant, an j Satan’s finswhich call him out of heaven, &c. At the fame time, Ifaw a man as with a fvvord drawn in his hand, who faid, Iam come down to take peace from the earth, and to pro¬claim war againil Antichrift, &c. by Michael and his an¬gels with this fword, with which 1 have given him oneilroke already. And 1 heard another angel crying with aloud voice, Baby’oa is fallen, is fallen, and is become thehabitation of devils,- Rev xiv. S &c. For Anticbriil hath(Tamed to himfelf the name of being Chrid’s VicSr, which Iis Chrih’s equal ; whereas 1 have no equal, neither willany man have that name on earth. 1 will root, cut An-tichiiti, and it Hull be with him as with the world at thelaft day, when d (hall diffolve it into nothing, it (hall nevertake root again, wht ih d will (h utly accomphfh34. Feb. 11 While l lay upon my bed, about two ofthe clock afternoon, the vifion cf light appeared fo great,that I th >ught there was no house above, only ckuhes,and 1 heard a voice faying. As 1 ?m in heaven and-thouupon the earth lying upon thy bed, I will give this genera-lion a ll(oke, that ail the dotlers on the earth cannot cure.upon Scotland, England, and Ireland.’5fealrightThen I apprehended a man walking by me with a! in his hand, and he flood dill, and lifted up hishand, and fwore by him thet liveth for ever and ever,That he had often foretold, but they would not believe,but mocked at all the warnings, neither wilt thou believethyfelf; but these that will not believe, I will tread asimire in the ftreets, which fhall be accomplilhed in a few■years. I had alfo in clear letters laid before me, fightand overcome, three times repeated. And another faid.What fhall we do? To whom it was replied, he that willnot fight fhall not overcome.31. Feb. 17. Near fun-fetting, l was furprifed with agreat light, and while I fat beholding it, one appeared tome, faying, I will led thee the meaning of tf e l.ghc, it isto let tire world fee, it is not by natural light, all thfte thingsire revealed to thee ; for l have taken away the kfler light,and given thee the greater inftead thereof : I have found•jlhce faithful in proclaiming my commiflnns, which hathoeen withflood by fome in the place ; but be they great orimall that withfland thee, go thou on in fulfilling thename of a commiffioner, lead I call thee by a more dread¬ful name, and as thou haft difcovered great things, 1 willshew fhee greater things, which thou fhalt deliver alfo.That fame night 1 was awakened from my fleep with a great■ight, I faw, as if the clouds had beeo open, and in a brightItloud, 1 heard a voice, faying, Glory be to our God, thatos our God upon the throne, and to the Lamb which hathtaken into thtc thy great power, and hath reigned, whoSath judged the great whore that (itetht on many waters,ifvhith hath made the kings of the earth druck, with theuiine of her fornication, as fire hath made them drunk withike cup, fo I will make all the kingdoms of the worldpith the blood of her dellrudlion. And 1 heard anotheray, thou haft: rightly judged her, for fire delighted in:be blood of thy fervants, and thou haft, given her bloodo driuk. Then 1 heard a great lamentation, mourning,ind crying, to which, while I liftened, it was faid, 1 willell thee what that great cry mtancth, it is the dcftru&ionf thofe who received the mark of the beaft on theirnacd and forehead. Then there appeared to mer.ghta valt16 Fijians, Warnings, and ’Judgementsfield of slain men, winch none could number, and theirblood running, upon the earth. Then I faw as it wtre athrone erected in heaven, and on it, one like unto theSbn of man clothed* with a garment down to his feet,and girt about the paps with a golden girdle, saying, Re-j rice over her. ye heavens, and ye prophets, and ye holy vjapoflles, for God hath avenged you upon her. And a ;mighty angel took trp a (lone like a milltone, ancf call it jinto the fea, faying, Thus with violence fhall that greatcity Babylon be thrown down, to be found no more at all. ;31. Feb 21. It was laid before me in printed letters, |That the Lord was about to plead v ith Antichrift for 1the bloodflied of his fervants by him, Mince he had a be*ginning, winch he would inliancc in thefe nations follow*iug, Germany, Bohemia, Piedmont, France, Spain, Bii-tiM”, and Ireland, and particularly the bloody heufe ofAuftria, and for what was done in the Netherlands, whichwas made defolate not for their own quarrel, but for mine, jbecau e they would rot deny me, aftd acknowledge thePope to be head of my church A t the fame time it1 wasfaid, I will raze the kingdom of Spain as the top o! a rookthat In'li neither food for man nor bcafi, but i *u'll tuftbring him to Britain to avenge ne of mine enemies, andfor the injuries done me and my church there, and their] will take the rod ard thro to it on the fire, and curfedbe that m^n tab ' refivfeth to go forth, and bathe his fwordin the blood o‘ AnrichniLS3 At another time 1 perceived a man talking withan mkhorn bv his fide, an I a pen in his hand, and when 1 ita'bened my eyes upon him he fold, 1 am to fet a mark andf al upon t? e foil ic.rs of the Lamb to dilltnguilh thenfrom tliofe that l av. the mark of the bead in the approach¬ing and def dating ft coke.S.f. At another time it wif laid before me, by three fi*ntlies, What ht truiM do w-.h Airichtill, the firtl teas afi.'hrr dratel'.g lt:» net, and every fish that tainted fins andfcaic®. he tiiretr into the ho’tom of the La, tcVre they tr uenever found any !*• ore : the fecond mas o' a man taking aBan* till o' fond, and th.ptcfng ir again ft the winds, that ifcmas never fc e, nor hfar.il any. more : the third m.s-a man cut-- ;fc.upon Scotland, England, and Ireland. \pjting •doTon .3 fitH of corn, it'ho left lome ftalk- ftand'ng andfome falling, anrl aftci wards treking lor f ed in thele llalks,he found them all eonfumed and rotten in the heart Atthe fa : e time a great li^hc appeared unto me which mademe much concerned, and it was f id to me, 1 l^a e iouched\ til- ips for this end, that thou may accomphfh the com-miffi in 1 have delivered unto thee; declare thou to thisgeneratn n, i’hat they fhall look to the feuth, and fee ti’.eSpanifh army great an 1 very c uel ; for tloy fhall do ac-1 cording ro t he feriptu’-e, Amos v Lhe city that goes out bya thousand shall leave a hundred, and the city that goes out byi a handled shall leave ten to the house oj Israel, saith theLord ; yet noueitiiftanding l wdl caufe my remnant in thisI; land to bathe their hoards in the blood of Antichuft. 1 f*W||: iu a vifion that .0. wll’s church mutt .go Into the furnace,3 and there be purged, for he toil! have a pure church, or noI church at all, for he will have his church -pc'*•*<'. Ircm aili the detiling errors and icpertlitious herefus which (he hath.| been often brought under by Antichaf iu;i prelates, for !,eit W-U have his chinch and fpoufe a cha^e brice unto him.1 Thro 1 faw a man coming a.ito me with a cro.vn in hnnl hand, nhofaid, flits is the crown which Chris’s ci'.urth ‘ii fhoifld-reccive in ‘he day of her efpoufal unto him. bec?cfek Antichrid hath •enlarged hell with fhe fouls of thofe whomid he hath drawn away with his f .prrifiuous idolatry, 1 wniit teke unto me my great po wer and reign, and throve him m-1; to the lake of ure, which iHirneth’with fi .and brimftone.35. March 21. I foe a man p;.fu-ig uy me, who afkw!,'4 What 1 hi v in his. hand. 1 laid a g,ov. n. Immediatelyhe teturned the fame way, and 1 law forncthiug in hisother hand, but could not undtiftand what it was. where-uon h e anfvered, Ye have an old tradition in yt ur uativeinnand- I hat the righteous heir 10 the crown is commonlyknown by the liar cn his fi le, fo this in my hand is the liar31 phereby 1 am known to be heir of my father s crt.ton.1 itf here is an Antichrillian party, who d- fign to rob my fa-hcr of his kingdom in this laud, and 1 am my father’s on-y fon,* the fon of his love, and who hath holden foith tohe world, and who is more obliged to ftand for the ta‘^;relt thyi the heir d i hey have defamed my fpoufe andH13 Vificns, Warnings, and yudgementsbride, by calling her a monflrous woman, with whomrone may convetTe, and who is obliged to own the bride,but the bridegroom ? As £ live, I will tide my horfe to tiregirths iil the blood of Antichrift. For as great as theirarmy is which is combining among the antichritlian party,I can break them all without the ftroke of a fword ; andfor as low as they think my intereft in this land is, I willlet them fee, that I have a party that will appear agamftthem whofe armies I make to profper.C6. March 22d There appeared a man walking by me,and ! ?fked where he was going ? He anfwered, afle a blef-fing for th;s land, before the ftorm and'cloud break uponit, which is juft at the breaking. Acother answered andfald, it is well done, for there will be need for it, for be-fore the ftorm be av an end, there (hall be many brokenplanks and boards among ns. And palling by again, he wasalketl whither he was going ? He m vveted, he was go¬ing to beg the .Spirit of God to this land and minifters, forit was withdrawn at the time. Then he pafled by me again,and had like a p!-ce of a broken pitcher in his hand ; andbeing afked v. hat he was going to do with it, he replied,he was going to make it new again : the oilier anfwered,it w as never known that any old broken pitcher or pot wasmtt.’e new 1 bin he palling on, returned immediately \rithit whole ia his hand, .uj frid, this is to let you fee, thataltho’ they fttould break ail my church to fttivers, I canrenew it again Then it was Paid, all that is good, butttiat doth not fatiefy us, if thou teturn not thyfelf again,he anfwend, I will certainly t.turn ; fer I will be broughtback by the wreftiio^ and prayers of the faints.37. March 2‘kh. It was Paid to me, I h-'ve laid beforethee Me many llrVtilcs which ivas thought trange. I willti ll thee another ftrange fimile, concerning the men whodepend on the world for their Ih.-’ter in the etifuing ftroke :I comp're ’he world ta an old rent mantle, which a mantaketh about h>'m, in a ftorrrv dav, he draws it up tocover his head, and h:s feet ere ail bare, and when hewraps his hands in it, to cover himftlf before, it is rivenall behind, and his back is <11 bare, it is fo narrow, let himdo what be will, there is more bire than covered.i-.upon Scotland, England, and Ireland. 1938 March 86th About 'he middle of the day, I faw aman in a vifion. a man of a very high ifatuee and angrycountenance, faying, that this land and people had U'tong-ed him of his name and title, which pertained to hirrij asft preme head of the church, in that they bad nicknamedhim by the name of the curfed prelate, and hath given meanttther name, which they call Fanatic. Then there ap¬peared to me another man of a very ccftnel gefture,who enquired, who it was thaefpoke with me ? 1 aniweed,1 cannot tell He faid, l will teJI tnee, it is Anf.chnft,who is difpleafed for wronging his name, and then fprkethus, praife be to him that tides in heaven, by his nameJAH, his name* for ever and ever (hall tncu e; and repeatedmany names which the Lord takes to himfclfhe was incha Ihining gefture, as f cannot venture to exprefs. This Ifaw under the vifion of a great light.39. i'hat fame night, about ten 6’clock, I was awakenedout of deep, with a furprifing light, as if there had beenno houfe above me, but the clot ds ail in light ; and whileI was admiring it, I heard one faying to me, look aboutthee, which, when T did, 1 faw a great cloud coming fromthe fouth, very black and great, it neither touched theclouds above, nor the earth beneath : then he faid, thatcloud is a combination of Trance, Spain, Italy, and Rome,for ruining BriraT, and Ireland t l ciif.rered what (ballwe do in fuch a dark time, </ fuch a d ok cloud, which weare not abie to refiit ? He Lid, ye ir.uit do as a man doththat hath a great fwartn of be. s, which he cannot gef com¬manded : he t: keth a vt ff !, hnd caftt th water atrongft them,by which he makuh them fjl to the ground, and fo theyneither fling n> r wrong him, until he putccth them intothe (leap v hicli he had defigned for ther*. 'hen I fair1,what water can we call upon fo groat' an arr y that canhsrm them? He anfwtrtd, the vengeance cf AlmightyGod: to whi h l anfwered, caa we take ’he water, orcommand the vengeance of Almighty God? He replied,You. u lift cal! to God, by prayers in faith, for he kreps thecup of vengeance in his own hand, and w ill threw it in a-mon,. them, which w ill mak. them ad fall to the groundjbke bers, and they (hull not move Livid he put them intoae>f■y vi ii20Vif.ms, Wa niin?s, and Judgementsthf place winch he hath prepand for them, wh‘ h is thfehottomhfs pit ; there they (hail fhng his people no more':For the L.'td will do With tljis greu army as a man cnt*te.h down his harveil ; when a ftorm arifeth he gatherethifeithcr bignefs nor foulnefs, fo that he cutteth downmore in one hour that he did in a whole day before.Then fat’d 1, Lord, what will I do in fuch a dejected co«-dition, for I pro mi fed that 1 will conceal nothing, and Iknow thiy will not believe me. And he faid, ye have anoid proverb, 6teing is believing all the world over; Iwill Itt them fee it and if feeing will not make them be- |litve 1 vvi'il m. ke the n reel it, for that which touchetha man he beheveth It Then 1 faid, How can 1 difcoverit when my aiem. ry cannot contain it by a great part ?He anfwerrd, i cte.ue the ear to hear, and will grve theememory that thoj mayeil deliver to tin’s generation asmuch as will leave them without excuse, or to iay, thjjt i Ibrought a tlrcke upon them, without giving them .warn¬ing : 1 know many will mock till they be infatuate thatthey ihall not know their enemies from their friends : there¬fore, gothou on m warning, and 1 will rr.njte good myword to thee. Then 1 faid, 1 have f und moieofthy wordin former discoveries than ,1 can hud in this; upon whichtl e c words wcie Lid'before me. God my salvation is become*&c. And further, he laid. This maybe among the lall I’lltrouble ih.e with, though it be not the lead. 1 am fully af*fur. d, 1 was not aflei p at this time, but receive1 the com- |tn.iii .n, and saw the vifttm with .fuch deep impreffionsCnderthat light, which 1 'forbear to exprefs to the world.40. okptil 2. .a. bout tin of the clock at night, a greatlight fhinir.g about me, it was laid before me, that he wasbringing a greiit army of French, Spaniards, Romilh, *.mda part of every nation about them, to bring a flroke onthis land for broken covenants,-or flighted gofpel, and theabounding fins of the land, and the blood of thofe who tef-tilled to the c iverants, for, faith he, 1 will make the earthfull of the blood or my enemies in this land ! But 1 knowa great many of this land will join with them, but fuch(hall fall with them, (o as to have neither name nor re¬membrance in it aftLtward. But 1 have teferved 7000upon Scotland, England, and Ireland.2 1men that have net bbtred the knee to Baa!, ro'uh.h fhall hethe feed that (hall do me fervtee in this land. I wifl'havea glorious church in this land, tchich fhall be admired c fall the earth.He-® rng fna'l th/s4'1. Apiil 2d. Igeneration defer to hear try tnarnings ? i toi l make thisland n-ithout bread 01 water, for 1 ana m >re cot.ctrned forthis land, while they forbear to hear my .warnings, thanfor the tcildncis of Zin, tchtrein t o rnan dwells This-land fhall be brought to’that pafs, that one fliail hardlyfiixl a man to ask how he fenntd in the florin.42. Apnl5. About the middle of the day, there appear¬ed to me a great light, and it was fnid unto me, i have nogreat commifilon for thee -at this time, being to go to tl>north of Scotland to tell them. That now their cup is full,and ere long it fha.l be as empty as ever it was full; formany of them fhall never have a full cup in this place again,and it items to be one of the laft warnings# 4*43. April IS. It was laid unto me, 1 have given out along roll of warnings, but this generation hath mocked atthem, and nose 1 am to go to the main land of Scotland,and to tell them, that th»fe warnings they receive from thisplace darkly, fh-dl Ihortly be accomplifhed, for 1 have aremnant of tender-hearted Chriftians here, who will lay itto heart, but this place is hardened by mocking ami fcof-fing, fo that any tender hearted Chriilian dare not let itbe known they lay it to heart, left they be mocked bytheir neighbours. * But this generation fhall have tew morewarnings, till they be warned by the fword in their ownbofoms ! The firft year fhall lay the land defolate. Theirdefign is to put their pretended king upon the th/one,but they {hall as loon put the wild fox that runs in thewood upon the throne, as they fhall put him or any ofthat race upon it, as my fetvants hanged on gibbets foradhering to my imereti, having teft;fit*J and declared44. April 21. In the evening of this day, 1 faw the ap.pearance of a man,_ who faid unto me. You have had along fummer feafon in this land, but ye have been like thefluggard, when he said, Confider the ant, thou flu.^ard,irfiich piepareth her food in the furamer, and is fixed for22 Tifxms, Warnings, and Judgements*the ftorm. \ truly good hudrandtittn, when he meets wit Ia ;yocd ferfon, does not ly by and mtsi/nprove his timehue cuts down and gathers in Hi he have allfecured within the fence, and clofeth up the flaps, and then he is fix''ed for the rainter diltrefs, 1 would ye were often wit?Gideon and David in the field of prayer. I have givdfethee two warnings to the vrorth of Scotland already, l willgive you another, the barley cake tumbling into the cairjof M’idian, and turning down their tents.4-j. In dhovering of that fame day, the light was ex¬ceeding great for a long time, I beheld a roll, but could nodunderhand a word of it, upon which one faid to me, I am(Vnt from heaven to tell thee, that this is the light of hanven 1but I am to give warning of a datk night to come on Bri.tain and Ireland ! 1 condefcended nat long ago, to lay outiigns and propofed months and day«, but ye mocked and!made light of it, but 1 mall now give a fign, and ye fha’lnowhere know years, months, weeks, nor days, but whenit comes von (hall all fee it, for the fun and moon lhall tallin one courfe, but what further is to be feeu I wall refer tillthe viiion fpe -.k for ufelf, for there was never man faw fuchr right of darknefs, for there fliall neither be moon-lightnor liar-light, through the whole three kingdoms, fromthe one end to the other, and ail fhall feel that darknela.j/;. May f>th. It was faid to n*e, arife and appear as iffVu w-re about to prepare a {hip, and when this genera-tion (hall a{k what thou meanelt ? thou {halt anfwer, it isfor- you to go to the South fea and view what a great fleetis preparing to invade Biitain and Ireland, and if they re¬gard put thee, prepare a kcond, and when they afk the.meaning, anfwcr in the like manner, and if they regard notthat, make a little boat which needs no fails, and if theyafk, what thoumeaneli by f»ch a little boat, then fay thou,the lead fifhing boat that goes about the rock to catch fiihfhall ferve you to go the length to fee that fleet which iscoming, lay this before this generation, lead they fay that Icame upon them without warning.47. May 7th. In the morning there appeared before me,a light, and two men walking before, the one had as it werea fwoid in tvs Hantj* ant} as 1 looked at them, all difap-upon Scotland, England, and. [r.land.: peared at that time : and.in the Int'er pa*-* of the day, theviiion returned, and fixing mf eyes np''ii the t..vo men, they one had a great f-vord in his hand, rbat had neither hilt nord bars, upon wh'ch I was r.fleed, what I thought of that tnan'! with the fword in his hand C L could not tel!, for he lookedj! like a gottrd angry man, and had iteel harntiTi ig from headto foot, he replied, this is to tell you that, he is a man ablefor all that oppofe him, and needs neither hilt nor bar, tocut down this generation and five a remnant, then i an-fwered, I cannot fee how a man, with fuch a fword and infuch a rage, as he feems to be, can fave a remnant, to which"I it was replied, I will let thee fee that preiently, then L fa'>’I at a diftance from me as ic had been a company of men, andhe fa id, there is a company of men, and the man with tie' {word had one fon in the company, upon which I saw theman begin and cut down the company with the fword, ar 1none efcaped till he came to his own fon, and as he wasfetching a llroke at him, he did not run away nor dtfri,but grafped him in his arms, and cried, be merciful ia'h’t-t,J am your own fon, and when he heard the voice of h s fo: ,die let the fword fall till the point Muck in tiie groiuid ai tnever touched him, then 1 heard as it the.one had fin- tothe other . How can we believe fuch warnings as tbefe{poken by fuch a man, when it is reported by men of gieat•jfkill that he is out of order and of a li.ht hraiV. ? The otherlanfwered, l am the root and ••ff-.pring o’ David, the brightjmonnng (far, l hold the fever: (fats in my right hand, whoSjdjare fay unto me what dodt thou ? And when I have awarning to give 1 choofe whom i ple.tfe, to give forth ntyvarnings, if my warnings bear not my seal, and be notccording to rnv word. they quarrel it, but they are notoncented with the commiffi mer, what con-tit ion he he in,hat is nothing to you. and you have no more answer toxpect from m-- at th.s time4:8 Up >n Friday following, I was warned by a voice,that he was preparing a facnfiee in the i{] mris of Britansland Ireland, particularly in the dghtands of .Scotland,then I heard one fa.ing. O tliat this generation, bpth menand women would b-.di ve this and lay it to hear;, whata time this w»U be when they (hall oe awakened out of24 Vifions, Warnings, and 'Judgements^ Itfc.their flet’p, ami poirib?/ fee ruling but their neighbours* Ih ufes all in a flame, if not t‘ieir own, I'his 1 have kid|be'ore you in the rsanac of the .Lord.49. Jn 17:K> in the viflon of light, 1 thought 1 aas in ia pleafant tield. arul there appeared unto me a man initchite fr.ihing raiment, faying unto me, What fedl tliou ?1 anfmered, A buih full of branches and bkffoms. Then;he bade me draw near, and lo ! in a moment it al! wither.!'ed and dectyed, except the heart of the bufli : 1 flood ftiilftill the biifh teas cut down by the root as with a fcythe,jat which 1 wept fore. But, in a little time 1 beheld a biifhlifpring up out of the heart of the flock, far more beautiful'and glorious than the firfl, then 1 sfked him the meaning1he anftvered, The fiifl bufh thou fawelt is the prefer,t degenerawd apoilatized church ef Scotland, which 1 wilfweep away in mine anger, and whereas thou fate a bufffpring up from the root of the former bufh, this is the remnanr that 1 have referved to-myfelf in the defeating ftrokewhich (hall be the feed of my church, whofe purity, beau ,ty, and glory fhall be fo great, that the very hills antmountains fhsll ring with the report thereof Amen.The request af John Porter, to all who shall have occasionto hear or read the foregoing Discoveries and Warnings.1 earnestly desire all who shall either hear qf% or shall hav,occasion to read what has been discovered to me, and /, i ‘obedience to the command given me, have communicated to (<t-ki rs from first to last, according asit is revealed in these te'■panes. That they receive them not as the product of my owcontrivance or inventionfrom, tightness of brain or melandaly. as some have taken the liberty to forge j for I declanthat notwithstanding of my blindness for so long a time,am ripe in my memory and judgement, and I am fully assureof the way they were delivered unto me I attest that 1 rtccived th.rm with such power as I cannot express; and that\do not offer to impose upon the present generation, I dare a]ipeal with confidence unto God, to whom I must shortly give a*account of mu recei vings c.nd discoveries, and not to any manJOHN PORT EllFINIS.J. Neilson, priatcr.