FAITHS PLEAUPONGOD’S COVENANT.A SERMON,On Psalm Ixxiv. 20.Have respect unto the Covenant, <§:c.* — ■Preached on the Preparation Day, be¬fore the Sacrament of the Lord’sSupper, a% Kinglassie.BY THE REV. RALPH KRSKINK. "Lite Minister of the (iospel in Dunfermline.FALKIRK:PRINTED AND SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON.'D ^I pSERMON.Psalm lxkiv. 20Have respect unto the Covenant, kc.THE Psalmist, in pleading for the Churchand people of God, and that he wouldappear for them against their enemies, usesseveral arguments ; particularly, in the close ofthe preceding verse, there is something he pleadsGod may not forget; Forget not the congre¬gation of thy poor for ever.” And the rarherhe uses this argument, 'because he had said,Psal. ix. 18. “ The needy shall not be forgotten ;the expectation of the poor shall not perish forever.” There is in this verse something hepleads that God may remember and have re¬gard unto. Have respect unto the Covenant.—Thou hast brought us into Covenant with thee,might he say, and though we are unworthy tobe respected, yet have respect unto the Cove¬nant of Promise. When God delivers his peo-ple, it is in remembrance of his Covenant.—Lev. xxvi. 4-2. “ Then will I remember myCovenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob ;and I will remember the land. ^ e cannotexpect he will remember us, till he rememberhis Covenant. Hence, therefore, we proposeto illustrate the following truth..3Doctrine.—That one of faith’s strong pleas,i with God is, that he would have respect toi the Covenant,If we would deal with God for mercy, or] plead with him for favour,, or look to him forI any good at this occasion, let us expect it onlyupon this ground, the respect he hath to thej Covenant, and plead upon his argument.The method we would observe, as the Lordi shall assist, for briefly handling this subject,i shall be the following.I. Shew what Covenant it is he will havea respect to.II. What it is for God to hare a respect tothe Covenant.III. What it is in the Covenant he have; a respect to.IV. What kind of a respect he hath to it.V. Why he hath a respect to it, and so whyit is a suitable plea and argument in suingI for mercy.VI. Make some application of the whole.I. We arc then first to shew what Covenantit is he will have respect to. The Covenanthere spoken of, is the Covenant of Grace andPromise made in Christ, Jesus before the worldbegan, and published in his gospel to sinpers,Jer. xxxii. 39. 40. “ And I will give them oneheart, and one way, that they may tear me forever, for the good of them, and of their child¬ren after them. And I will make an everiasting Covenant with them. That 1 will not turnaway from them to do them good; 'hut l vvi!lput my fear in their hearts, that-they shall uot*4depart from me.” Ezek. xxxvi. 96. “ A newbeart also wi'i I give you, atu! a new fpin't willI put with n you ; and 1 will take away thestony heart out of your flesh &e.” Jer. xxxi, 33.“ But this shall he the Covenant that I will maitewith the house of Israel after these days, saitlithe Lord, I wili jiut my law in their inwaidparts, and write it in t! cir hearts, and w ill hetheir Gc.d, and they shall ne niv pet pie. '’—And in Psal. ixxxix. throughout, it is calleda. Covenant of grace ; because grace is the be¬ginning and the end, the foundation and top*stone of it, even grace reigning through righte¬ousness. It is called a Covenant of mticy,because therein mercy to the miserable is pro¬claimed, through justice satisfying blood ; forthere mercy and truth met together, and allthe sure mercies of David are conveyed thereby.It is called a Covenant of peace and recom dic¬tion because it both treats of Peace with God,and makes it good. It is called a Covenant ofpromise, because it lies in promises w ith re¬ference to us, and these to he accomplished onthe condition already folfiljed in Christ’s obedi¬ence and satisfaction, and because therein .thefaithfulness of God is pledged, for making outall the promises 1 o believers, and the childrenof promhe. It is called a Covenant, of salt,because it is an incorruptible word, an ever¬lasting Covenant, well ordered in all thingsand sure. In a word, it is a Covenant of helpto poor, helpless sinners saying, “ I have laidhelp upon one that is mighty.—O Israel, thouhast destroyed thyself, but in me is thy help."It is a Covenant of pardon to the guilty, saying,I, even I, am he that blottcth out thy trans -grcssinns for mire own sr'kc, sno I will notremember thy fins.” It is a Covenant of sup¬ply to the reedy, saying, ¥> hen the poor sretneedy seek rater, end there is rone, and theirtongue faileth for thirst, I, the Lord, will hearthem. I, the God of Israel, will not forsakethem.” It is a Covenant of gifts, v here tvgrace and glory are freely given; and, in thedispensation thereof, God says, Come, and takeali freely, himself, his Christ, his Spirit,*end ell,Isa. Iv. 1. liev. xxii. 17.II. We are to shew what it is for God tohave respect to the Covenant.1. God that respect to the Covenant whenhe remembers it, and so remembers us, as inthat forecited Lev. xxvi. 4*2. “I will rememberrvy Covenant, and then will I remember thelard.” Thus, Isa1,, cxi. 5. “ He hath givenmeat to them that fear him.” Why, he willever bo mindful of bis Covenant. If he cometo give us meat, to feed cur souls at this oc¬casion, the ground will be, he will be mindfulof his Covenant, mindful of his promise.2. God may be said to have respect to bisCovenant, when he regards it. He hath noreason to have respect to us, but he sees leasonto hav i legald to his Covenant: be puts honourupon it, for reasons that l shall afterwards shew;only I v.i 1 say here, that his honour is engagedtherein, ihttefore, he says, '‘My Covenant will Irot break nor alter the thing that is gone out ofmy lips/ Psal. ixxxix. 34. He hath more regardto it, than he hath to heaven and earth, for hesays, “ Heaven and earth shall pass away, butmy words shall not pass away. He hath stlchregard to it, that he will never break it, butever keep it.3. He hath respect to his Covenant, whenhe establishes it. And when we pray that hewould have respect to the Covenant, we notOnly pray he would remember the Covenant,and regard the Covenant^ but establish theCovenant betwixt him and us, as he said toAbraham, Gen. xvii. 7. “ I will establish itbetween me and thee, and thy seed after thee.”He shews respect unto the Covenant, when hemakes the Covenant take hold of us, and makesus take hold of the Covenant ; for then, hemakes us put respect upon him, and upon hisCovenant.4. He hath respect to the Covenant, whenhe performs the Covenant Promise, accordingto Micah vii. 20. “ Thou wilt perform thetruth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abrahanj,which thou hast sworn to our fathers from thedays of old.” And he does this, when he actsaccording to the Covenant, or according to themefey that made the promise, and the truththat is engaged to make out the promise.In short, the sum of this prayer, as it con¬cerns the import of the word Respect, Haverespect to the Covenant, is, Lord, remember theCovenant, and so remember me; Lord, haveregard to the Covenant, and let me be remem¬bered on this ground, when there is no reasonwhy I should be regarded ; Lord, Establish theCovenant with me, and so put honour upon thy/11:9raxiname, manifested in that Covenant, and to . me.according to the Promise of the Covenant;cause me to hope in thy word, and then rememberthy word, on which thou hast caused me to hope,and deal with me hot according to my sin anddesert but according to thy Covenant, andmercy in Christ Jesus.III. We are next to shew, what it is in theCovenant he has a respect to, or that we shouldplead upon.1. Have respect to the Covenant: That is,to the Mediator of the Cavenant. Tho’ thouowest no respect to; me, yet dost thou not owerespect, and hast thou not a great respect tothe Mediator of the Covenant, even to himwhom thou hast given to be a Covenant of thepeople? For his sake let me be pitied; havea respect to the relation he bears to the Cove¬nant, even to him who is the Mediator. Testa¬tor, Witness, Messenger, Surety, and ail theCovenant. Have respect to his Office, and lethim get the glory of his saving Offices. It isa strong plea to plead with God upon the re¬spect he bears to Christ j God cannot win oversuch a plea as fhat. He must own his regardand respect to Christ, who paid such respect tohim, and finished the work he gave him to do.2. Have respect to ike Covenant, by havingrespect to the blood of the Covenant. The bloodof Christ, that is represented in the Sacramentof the Supper, it is the blood of the Covenant,called the New Testament of his blood, becauseall the promises are sealed therewith, and soyea ami amen in Christ. This is the conditionof the new Covenant. The Covenant of Workshad only the active obedience of the first Adarnfor its condition: but the condition of the |Covenant of Grace, properly,; is both the active jand passive obedience of the second Adam, hisdoing and d'. ing. Now, Lord, have respect tothat blood that sealed the covenant; since thecondition is fuifi'icd to thy infinite satisfactionlet the promised g>sod be conferred upon me.3 Have respect to the Covenant, by havingrespect to the Oath of the Covenant, Heb. vi. 17.The Promise is confirmed with the Oath ofGod, “ fhat by two immutible things, whereinit is impossible for God to lie, we might havestrong cons, iation,” &c. Now, Lord, wiltthou not ! ve respect so thine own oath? Fastthou rot sworn by thy holiness, that thou wiltnot lie unto David ?4. Have respect to the Covenant, by havinga respect to tne Properties of the Covenant.This would he a large field, but I shad sum itup in few words Have respect to the Covenant.that is, Lord, have respect to the fullness ofthe Covenant and let me be supplied, for thereis enough theTe; it contains all my salvation,and all my desire. Have respect to the freedomof the Covenant, and let me, however un¬worthy, share of the grace that runs ficelythence. Have respect 'o the stability of the-Covenant, ani let me be p.ticd : though unstableas water, and infirm, yet the Covenant standsfast; 11 ton mb. r thy word, that endures forever. 11 vg respect to the order of the Cove-i as sure. “ Tliough niy house he not so withGad, (says David) yet he hath made with mean eve'Iasiing Covenant, well ordered in ahthings and sure.” Though my house be outof order, and heart out of order, and my frameout of order and all be in confusion with me,yet ! see. according to thy Covenant all well.IV. We p-ocQed to shew whrt kind ofa respect he h in to the Covenant, that wemay be. the more engaged to plead upon it.1. He ii t'i a great an 1 high respect to theC ivenant. it is the Covenant of the grett God,with his greu an 1 eternal Son. f(»r the honourand glory of his great Name ; and, therefore,he cannot but Ikivo a great an i high respectunto it. His gremt Name i* manifested in it;and. therefore, when we pie ul his respect to theCovenant, We plead in affect, saying, “ Whatwiit thou do fc-r thy great .Name ?Ha hath a dear and lovely respect to the! Covenant; fur, it is the Covenant, of His graceand love, «ne> ein he sh -ws his if fia t love!to C irist. and through him to a company ofwretched sinners, h is a Covenant of kindness,Isa. Tv. 10 ‘My ki.i(h',e:s shall not depart5 from t >ee, neither shell «. Covenant of mypeace he removed, saith the Lord, t at hathmercy on thee.’ Intimating that his Cove¬nant of peh-e is a Covenant of kindness, where¬in ha rnanirests his dearest love ; therefore hehath a dear respect to it.3d. He hath a full respect to the Covenant,a respect to every promise o! it; They areall yea and amen, to the glory of God,” 2 Cor. !i. 20. He hath a respect to all of them, be-cause they are all yea and amen, and becausethey are all thus ratified in Christ to the glory |of God. He hath respect to every article of :the Covenant not a jot shall fall to the ground.4. He hath an everlasting respect to theCovenant; therefore it is called, an everlasting \Covenant. It is made between everlasting :parties; it is replenished with everlasting bless¬ings ; it is rooted in everlasting love : therefore |jhe is ever mindful of his Covenant and willnever cease to have respect to it.Well, then, say you, what need we pray andplead, that he would have respect to his Cove¬nant ? Why, if it be sure that he hath, andwill for ever have a respect to the Covenant,then we may pray with the more assurance andconfidence ; so that there is here strong footingfor our prayer. But, besides, when we pray,and say, Have respeet to the Covenant, weseek, that he would shew the respect that hehath unto it, that he wonld shew and make itmanifest unto us, that we may have the faithof it. and enjoy the fruits of it, and the blessedefiekts of that respect to it, in our participationof the blessings thereof.V. The next thing was, to shew why hewill have respect to his Covenant: and conse¬quently, whence it is such a suitable plea andargument for us. Why,1J1. When he hath respect to the Covenant,he hath respect to himself; the framer of it heowns himself to be, Psal. Ixxxix. 3. “ I havemade a Covenant with my chosen.” Why, then,the strength of the plea is, Have respect untothe Covenant, and so have respect to thyself,and thy own glorious Name and Attributes, andlet them be glorified in shewing regard to theCovenant. Have'respect to thy Wisdom, thatshines in the car-trivance of the Covenant;“The manifold Wisdom of God;” yea, “ TheWisdom of God in a mystery,” that here appears.Have respect to thy Power, that shines in theefficacy of the Covenant : not only for over¬powering principalities and powers, but over¬coming thyself, and the power of thine ownwrath, by the power of thy love. Have re¬spect to thy Holiness, that shines in the holyOath of Jehovah, by which it is confirmed,and the holy Obedience of Jesus, by which itis fulfilled ; so that, as by the sinful disobedi¬ence of one, many were made sinners, by theholy obedience of another glorious One, manyare made righteous. Have respect to thyJustice, that shines in the blood of the Covenant,the sacrifice by which Justice hath condign andinfinate satisfaction. Have respect to thyMercy and Grace, that reigns through thatrighteousness to eternal life. Have respectto thy Truth and Faithfulness, that shines inaccomplishing all the promises of the Covenant,upon the ground of Christ having fulfilled thecondition. Have respect unto thy Eternityand Immutability, in the unchangeableness ofthe Covenant ; shew that thsu art God, andchangest not. Thus have respect to thyself.1221. When he h.»th respect to the Covenant,he hath respect to his Son Christ, the centerof it, and in whom it stands fast, as he owns,Psal. Ixxxix. 2Sh “ My covenant shd! stand fastwith him.” Why, then the strength 'of theplea is, Have respect to the Covenant, and soshew respect to thy Son : Have respect to himin his person as he is thy Son and our Saviour,Immanuel, God-man ; in his divinity, whereinhe is equal with God: in' his humanity, where¬in he is the master-piece of God's works—•Have respect to him in his purchase, which igthe substance of the Covenant bought with higblood. Have respect to his death, and resur¬rection, for thou Invest him on this account,John x. 17- “ Therefore doth the father ioveme, because l lay down my life, thet I may takeit up again.” Where we see, that Christv asdying and rising in the room of his people, isthe object of the father’s love, delight, andesteem, Have respect unto his intercessionwherein he prays,far all the blessings of theCovenant that he hath purchased : Doth notthe Father hear him always ? Havo repectto his commission, which is sealed by thee , for‘ Him hath God the Father sealed,’ appointedand authorised unto all saving ofases relationsand appearances; let him get the glory of allthese. O strong plea !3tl. When he hath respect to the Covenant,he hath respect to his Spirit, the great Applierof the Covenant-blessings, the Execuier of theTestament, sealed with the blc d oi Christ,and by whom Covenant love is s ie-.l abroadupon the heart, Rom. v. 5 Why then, thestrength of the plea is, Have respect to theCovenant ; that is, Have respect to tiiy ownsS—13I Spirit, tlist he may pet the glory of applyingby his power, what Christ hath purchased byhis blood. Have respect to the promise of thei Spirit that thou hast made, That when he is: cb.ne, he shall convince the world of sm, righte-I cushess and judgement ; and' testify of Christ,' and, glorify Christ, by shewing the things of! Christ ” Have respect to the oflices of the1 Spirit, vs he is a convjncer, sanctifier, and: comforter, accofUing to the order and methodN of toe,Covenant.. Have respect to the honour; of tiie Spirit, who is the all in all of the Cove-ij nant, in p 'hit ot power, and powerful manifesta¬tion, com-nunicatioo, and opr ration. Have re»i spect to the n 1 tions of the Spit it as he is thej Spirit of toe Father end of the Son. the Spiritof the C ovenant, an l of all the covenanted sfeedHence,4< When lie hath respect to the Covenant,i he hath respect to the peop'e on the account ofthe Covenuu of promise; for ‘‘ they, as Issact was, are the end Ven of promise,” Gal. iv. 28.i Why then, the strength of tiie p’ea and' urguri m^nt here is. Lord, I lave regret to Jie Covenant,and so syevy regard anil respect to us. W'e havef no cb'-fidence to dijm any respect at thy hand,i but merelv uno i the account qf 'the respect thouhost to thy Coven.,nt. H tvt* respect to our per¬sons on this,grpurjd., since the Covenant providesacceptance in tr^j Beloved Lp . i 6. Look.uponus in the f >ce of thine \oomted, and in thejjitss of t’.e N tw Covenant. 11 iv® respect to ourprayers and perfornianc as on this ground, sincethe C ivchapt hath .provided much incense, toperfume tire prayt rs and lilfj.'ings of all saints,14upon the golden altar that is before the throne,Rev. viii. 3. Have respect to our tears, whenwe sigh and groan, ard mourn, and weep be¬fore thee, since the Covenant provides a bottlefor our tears, Psal. Ivi. 8. “ Put thou my tearsin thy bottle.” Have respect to our needs onthis ground, when we are hardened, that wecan neither pray nor weep, since the Covenantprovides supply to the poor and needy, Philip,iv. 10. “ My God shall supply all your need, ac-cordiug to his riches in glory, by Jesus Christ.’VI. I will now proceed to make some appli¬cation of the subject in these four words.1. Hence see a mark and character of truebelievers that are fit for a communion table, jthey are of God’s mind: He hath a respect tothe Covenant, and they have a respect to theCovenant ; and hence they know what it is toplead with God, upon the respect that he hathto the Covenant: they could not do so, if theyhad not a high respect to it themselves ; theyhave such a respect to the Covenant, in kind,as God hath. They have a great respect to it,so as they esteem it more than all things ina world ; they would not give one promise of it,on which they have been caused to hope, forall the gold of Ophir. They have a dear andkindly respect to it, as all their salvation andall their desire, yea, and all their delight also.The word of grace is sweeter to them thanhoney, and the honey comb. They have a fulland universal respect to it, and to all the pro¬mises of it; they respect the promise of purityas well as the promise of pardon; the promise15of salvation from sin. as well, and as much, asthe promise of salvation from hell, the promiseof holiness, as well as of happiness, As theyhave a respect to all God’s commandments, sothey have a respect to all his promises: andparticularly, as David had his golden Psalms,so they have their golden promises, that theyare made to hing upon. Yea, they have aneverlasting respect to the Covenant, and to thepromises thereof; even when their frame failsthem : when their sweet enjoyments fads them,yet their respect to the Covenant remains, andtheir respect to the Maker of the Covenant,to the Mediator of the Covenant, to the bloodand oath of the Covenant, to the Spirit of theCovenant, and to the blessings and benefits of it.They have an everlasting respect to the graceof the Covenant of grace: they are adorersand admirers of free grace. They have aneverlasting respect to, and rememljrance of thewords of the Covenant, particularly these wordsthat have been let in with any life and powerupon their souls, or that they have been causedto hope upon; whatever they forget, they cannever forget such a word -.that brought life totheir souls ; “ I will never forget thy words,*’says David, for by them thou hast quickenedme.” They have such an everlasting respectto the Covenant, that when they have nothingin the world to trust to, they will rely on theCovenant, and confine in such a promise, andplead upon it, saying, Lord, have respect to theCovenant.2. Hence we may see the misery of thosethat are unbelievers, and remain strangers tothe Covenant of Pro-nise, and have no respectto the Covenant. It is misery .enough, thatGod hath no respect to you : no respect to yourperson nor prayers, as it is said. To Cain, and hisoffering God had no respect, Gen. iv. 5. So Godhath no respect either to your persons or per¬formances ; they are an abomination to him. ,Your prayers to him are but like the bowlingsof a dog, if you have never taken hold of hisCovenant, nor seen the respect that God hathto tire Covenant. You have no respect to Godwhile you have no respect to that which herespects so highly. Annas le hath no respectto your persons or performances he halt norespect to your tears ; they never flowed fromFaith’s views of a pierced; Christ Me hath norespect to your souls, the redemption thereofceaseth for ever, because yon hay.’no due re¬peat to the Redeemer's blood and righteous¬ness. He hath no. respect to j pur communi¬cating ; nay, he disapproves of. it, and dis¬charges yog to . sit doyfn at his table, oa perilof eating and drinking our damnation. Godhath no regard noy respect to yoor salvation,because you have 90 regard nor rysppci to theSaviour he hath provided and iff‘red Godthinks, as little to damn you, as you thick tittleto dishonour him. (3od thinks hs liitl; of youas you think little of sin, and he hath as littlerespect to yrpu, as you have tp Christ and tothe Covenant. Woe to you if you remain inthis case ; for the day is conueg yv herein Godwill, before all the world, shew no mere re-* spect to you, than to say to you, ‘ Depart fromme, ye cursed into everlasting fire, pfepaiedfor the devil and his angc!s.,,' Rut,3. Hence we may see the hapiness of belie* „▼ers, that ha ve such a respect to the Covenant,as I was speaking- of, a great, dear, full, and per¬petual respect to it, and the Mediator ofit, whoi| have taken hold of the Covenant thro’ grace, andknow what it is to take hold of God in the Covc-i' nant, to take hold of God in a promise, and toi hold him by his word, and rely upon him in it,saying, Lord, Have respect to the Covenant-,here :s your great happiness, God hath a respectto you. "hat respect? Even to your personsand olferiiigs, as it is said of Abel, Gen. iv. 4.) “ God Ira l a respect to him and his offering.”!! Too’ you be siying in your heart, Oh ! how canhe have a respect unto me, black and vile, andguilty me? Why, not for your sake indeed, be itknown unto thee, but for his Covenant’s sake,and for iiis Name sake. He hath a respect toycur praying,'and praising, and communicating,I because he hath a respect to the Covenant. Heil hath a respect to your name ; though the name of■ the wicked shall rot your name, shall be in ever-i lasting remembrance, for God hath put his namein you ; something of 'Christ in y ou, Somethingcf the Covenant in you. Some observe, whei--Abram’s name was turned to Abraham that some5 of the letters of the name Jehovah, was puti! Abratn’s name. Indeed God gives the*believer.a new name, that he. hath a respect unto. H»hatha respect to your suits a d supplications;| *• I hive heard Ephraim benjouning himself.—Omy dove, that art in the riffs of the rock, in the; secret } lac- s of the stains; fet me hear ttiy voice,J let me see thy countenance; for sweet is thyr voice, and thy countenance is comely.” He hathrespect to his dovea, when laying their requestsISbefore him; that voice that world laughs at,God hath a respect to it. He hath a respect toyour blood : “ Precious, in his sight is the bloodof his saints.” He hath a respect to your souls ;and hence he gave his blood to be a ranson forthem : And when your souls languish, he sendsbis Sjpirit to restore them ; and when you die,he will send his angels to bring them to heaven.He hath a respect to your bodies ; you ought,being bought with a price, to glorify him inyour souls and bodies, which are his. When ~your bodies go to the dust, he will take care ofthat dust, and lose nothing ef you, but raise youup at the last day, and make your vile bodieslike unto his glorieus body, and so shall you beever with the Lord. He hath a respect to you,such a respect, that he puts honour upon you :“ Since thou wast precious in my sight, thouhast been honourable.” He hath made youkings and priests to your God. Jacob wascrowned a prince on the field of battle, thefield of prayer, when he wrestled with theangel, and prevailed. The poor wrestling manis a prince, and the poor wrestling womana princess in God’s sight ; this is the honour ofall the saints. They have power with God,and therefore, no wonder than they have powerover the nations, to rule them with a rod ofiron ; they judge and torment them that dwellupon the earth, even here ; and, “ Know younot, that hereafter the saints shall judge theworld ?” God hath a respect to you, and hewill shew it in due time, because he hath a re¬spect to; the Covenant, and filled your heartwith respect to it also.4. Hence, see the duty encumbered upon us,in pleading with God for his favour, presence,19jjnd blessing : Let us go to him both in seccet; Mayer, and in solemn approaches to his table,frying, Lord, Have repeat to the Covenant.—«l know not a case you can be in, but the CovenantExhibits a cure, and you are allowed to plead,t. Ezek. xxxvi. 37. After many precious New"Covenant promises, it is said, “ For this will Ije enquired of by the house of Israel, to do it'or them.” And how are we to enquire butyy pleading the respect he hath to the Cove-i inant ? Have you a polluted heart, with the filthi jsf sin ? Why, here is an article of the Covenant,i 1 I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and yeshall be clean : From all your filthyness, andi from all your idols I will cleanse you.” ver. 25.10 then, go to God for cleansing, and plead,; isaying, O Lord, Have respect to the Covenant.i|Have you the old stony heart still within you,and would y®u have it renewed and softened ?J Here is an article of the Covenant, “ A newi heart will I give you, and a new spirit will Iinput within you : I will take away the stony: i heart out of your flesh, and I will give you aie11 heart of flesh.” O then go to God, and plead itsaying, Have respect to the Covenant. Are youI destitute of the spirit, “ Sensual, not havinglithe Spirit? Do you find such a want of theI Spirit, that you cannot walk in God’s way ?i1 Well, there is an article of the Covenant here,i ver. 27. “ I will put my Spirit within you,Ii and cause you to walk in my statues.” O pleadfor this great blessing, and say, Lord, Haverespect to the Covenant,In a word, when you consider what kind ofi: a sinner you are, consider also, what kind offt Covenant this is ; it is enough to say, that itis a Covenant of araee, of aii sorts of grace; forall sorts of sinners that arc out of hell. Are |you under dreadful guilt ? Here is a Covenantof pardoning grace; “I will blot out thy sin asa cloud, and ti;y transgression as a thick cloud;return to me, for I have redeemed thee," ' Isa.xliv. 22. O then p!ead he may Have respecttn the Covenant. Are you under fearful pollu¬tions ? O here is a Covenant of purifying- grace,naying, t: There is a fountain opened to thehouse of David, and the inhabitants of Jerusa¬lem, for sin and for uncleanliness." O then pleadhe may Have respect to the Covenant. Are youin darkness arid ignorance, having no knowledgeof God? O here is a Covenant of enlighteninggrace, saying, 4 They shall be-all taught of God.O flue, plead it, saying, Lord, Have respect tothe Covenant. Are you under deadness, andlike dead and dry bm . s ? O here is a Covenantof quickening grace, saving, 4:I am come to givelife, and to give it more abundantly —The houreometh when the dead shall hear the voice ofthe Son of God, and they that hear shall live.” ;O then plead, that he may Have respect to the \Covenant. Are you'in confusion, and know not ;what way to take ? O here is a Covenant ofdirecting grace, saying, 441 will bring the blindby a way they know nut; I will lead them in jpaths they h ive not known: I will make dark¬ness light before them, and creaked thingsstraight." A:e you under sad plagues and foul-disea es, over-run with sores, fiord the crownof the head, to the sole of the foot. ? O here isft Covenant of healin 'grace, saying, “ Hie Sonof righteousness shall ar.se with healing in his21i wings—I am the Lord that healeth thee.-—I willi heal your backsli lings.” O then plead, saying.Lord, Have respect to the Covenant. Are you inj extreme danger of hell and damnation, becauseof your sin and guilt r O here is a Covenant o*delivering grace, saying, “ Deliver his soul froifei going down to the pit, for I have found a ran-Isom.” O then plead it, and say, Lcird, Hav«pirespect to the Covenant. Are you in bondage' unto sin, Satan, and the world, a captive untt>lusts, and shut up in unbelief as in a prison ? ©here is a Covenant of liberating grace ! “ Pro¬claiming liberty to the captives, and. the openingof the prison to them that are bound.” Are youa stupid soul that cannot move toward God norjstir heaven-ward, by reason of a backward will,like a brazen gate, that resists all the force ofamoving means? Well, but O, here is a Cove-ifnant of drawing grace, saying, “ When I amjjlifted up, I will draw all men after me.” Asthe power and virtue of the loadstone drawstire iron so the virtue of an exalted Christ drawsthe iron bar of the will: “ Thy people shall bewilling in the day of thy power.” O then plead it,saving. Lord, Have respect to the Covenant.What other concerns have you? Are you- concerned for your children, that they may bepartakers of Covenant blessings, and saved ofi the Lord ? O here is a Covenant of extensivegrace, entailing blessings on us and our offspring,i saying, ‘ I will be thy God, and the God of thyseed.” 0 then look to God in behalf of yourchildren, saying, Lord, Have respect to tha1 Covenant. Are you concerned for the Church,nn:l the dangerous circumstances she is into byreason of cruel enemies ? This seems to be thagveat concern of the Psalmist here, as appear*22from the body of the Psalm ‘ and the wordsfollowing the text: ‘ For the dark places ofthe earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.”Those that live in the darkness, of ignorance»nd error and in the works of darkness, arefull of cruelty against the Church and peopleof God : and they are surrounded with theminsomuch that the jchurch is like a lily amongthorns, or a sheep among wolves: What shallbecome of it? Why, here is a Covenant ofdefence, and of defending and protecting grace,saying, “ Upon all the glory there shall be adefence,” Therefore when enemies break downthe carved wood with axes and hammers, ver. 7.when they are saying, “ Let us destroy themtogether,” ver. 8. yea, when it shall come tothis, that a bloody sword that is raging abroad,shall come over to us, and foreign and domes¬tic enemies, or both, shall devour and destroy,and, may be, “ burn up all the Synagogues ofGod in the land,” as it is ver. 8. and when weshall “ not see our Signs, and there is no moreany prophet, nor any among us that know thetime how long,” ver. 9- in all such cases, whatcourse shall we take, but that of the Psalmisthere ? Lord, Haw respect to the Covenant.Are you concerned about inward enemies,spiritual enemies, and molested with the powersof darkness ? Is your heart full of the habita¬tion of cruelty, and fearfully inhabitated withcruel devils, cruel lusts, cruel corruptions, andmastenand conquer, and prevail against you, soas you may ly many a time wounded and deadat the enemies feet ? O here is a Covenant ofsin conquering grace, not only a Covenant ofmercy to your souls, but of vengeance to yourlusts,' saying, “ The day of vengeance is ip23mine heart, the year of my redeemed is come.”Isa. xiii. 4. O then, cry down the promisedvengeance on all your cruel soul enemies, say-i i mg, Lord, Have respect to the Covenant.Are you concerned about your soul’s povertyBand indigency, not only oppressed with wantsand necessities, being absolutely poor and needyand destitute of all good ? O here is a Covenantof soul supplying grace, and of all needful pro*vision, saying “ when the poor and needy seekwater, and there is none, and their tonguefaileth for thirst, I, the Lord, will hear them,I, the God of Jacob, will not forsake them .I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, andfloods upon the dry ground.” O then pleadthe Covenant, as the Psalmist here in the fol¬lowing verse : “ O let not the oppressed returnij ashamed ; let the poor and needy praise thy; name.” Have respect unto the Covenant.In a word, let your case be the word out cf!hell, the Covenant contains all salvation as aCovenant of grace, of all grace, of all sort ofcures for ail sort of cases; and if you can getyourself wrapt within the bond of this Cove¬nant, by believing and pleading it, then youdraw God upon your interest, so that your con¬cern is his concern. y,our interest is his interest,youf cause is his cause, as the Psalmist shewshere, ver. 22 “ Arise, O God, plead thine owncause.” It stands upon his honour, and he willdo his own work in his own time. If ever yougot grace to draw a bill upon God as a Cove¬nanting, promising God in Christ, and haveany bills lying tabled before the throne, andare sometimes unable to plead and pursue thebill, with a Lord, Have res]>ect unto the Covenant,r. ^ 7 -/■y<)U have tlie strongest encour^gmop.t to vraitoi) him, an<l expect ansvyeruig the bill indue time: for he will riither work marvelously,4j>d create new worids, rather tutn all thingstp,, ”othi<!g .than quit bis concern in, or give up*ilh hU reseect unto the Cayeiiai'tAre you •cmicj.-rnea for the advanement qf♦be king^ont of Ci tist jn the earth, as you oughtto be? Here is n-Cove«>«!t-of grace to the Jews,and grace to the Gentiles ; grace to the Heathennations; saying, “ I wdl give thee the Heathenfor tlidne iuheriun.ee, and the utter most part ofthe earth for thy possession.” Are you concernedabout genciations to cqme, about the risinggeneration, and but little^ hope of the present?O here is a Covenant of grace, to succeedinggenerations, till the end of the world, saying,“ I will make thy r.aqie to be remembered in allgenerations ; therefore shall the people praisethee for ever and ever.”Are' you concerned about your latter end,and how it shall fare with 'you in the swellingsof Jordan ; how shall you fight the battle ? Ohere is a Covenant of death-,"ionquerirg grace,saying, <! Death shall be swallowed up in victory,O death, I will he thy plague : O grave, 1 wiii bethy destruction.” Are you concerned about thegospel-ministry, thoughtful whether it shall becontinued ? There is many a word in this Cove¬nant about it; especially that Christ is exaltedto maintain and support a gospel dispensation tothe end of the world, Mat.-xxviii. 20. Whateverspot of earth be chose or refuse, hgviqg ascendedon high, he hath received gifts for men, yea, forthe rebellious also that the Lord God mightdwell among them,” Psal. Ixviii. 18. Amen.FINIS.