THE MURDER DISCOVERED.THE WIDOW AND HER SON.ENCOUNTER WITH A LION.THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.THE CONFLICT BETWEEN GRANT ANDM‘PHERSON, AT HELL BRIDGE, ADANGEROUS PASS IN THE HIGH¬LANDS OF SCOTLAND.GLASGOwT of SCOTLAtUiPRINTED FOR THE HOoS.&RLEERS.wwmwTHESTOBY TELLER,3HTJ3JJ3I YflOT'e \0•<'.(iC’iHMVGOr'iu Haan ji/ aiiT «.ZO« ilHH <1/7. 7/0(117/ tfllT |.MOTJ A l IT!7/ Ha']'T/[IJ07/:i ;'% mw ^’-aaiajoa mht |* >; < i / a t v. a h i) v a a wt ati 'dm a z oo a h t /'<§ a .aoaiHH jaan ta .^oanaHa i/-IIOIH aHT ZI 88Aa HUOHaOZACITHE MUKDfcHv DISCOVElilEAT accompanied the gentleman into tho gardenftnd was shown the place where her own fatherfound his murdered daughter. The grass was redwith blood, and the marks of feet were quite visibleon tho ground, which' happened to be soft and weti I n endeavouring to trace the footsteps,- we observedthat they led over some ground which had bed-newly dug with the spade, and that they bad made-a remarkably distinct impression on the loose soil.On examining that impression we saw that therewas something particular in the form of the shoe.It was uncommonly broad and large, and round-toed, and, from its shape, gave reason to suspectthat its wearer was what is called flat-soled. It hadalso been lately pieced at the heel and toe, andarmed with broad-headed tacks, the points of whichwere- distinctly marked. This whs an importantdiscovery, and Mr Johnson, who was accustomedto use his pbncil, set himself, with the assistance ofthe surgeon, to take a correct measurement anddrawing of it on paper. In the meantime, Mr Thom¬son and I continued the search, and having tracedthe footsteps to the garden -wall, tho good minister,who happened to be before mo, uttered an exclama¬tion of horror, and directed my attention to a stoneon the top of the wall which was stained with blood.On looking more minutely, we saw tho marks ofbloody fingers on the stone, and concluded that themurderer had made his retreat out of the garden atthis place. A plowed field on the other side of thewall favoured our further search, and we trackedthe villian to a small piece' of water where h<f hadprobably washed his hands, and through which heappeared to have waded, as the prints of feet wore4seen on the opposite hank. I threw off my shoesand stockings, and followed the course we supposedthe murderer had taken as accurately as I could ;hut as the ground on the other side was coveredwith wood, 1 could trace him no farther. On myreturn, I observed something bright at the bottomof the water, which I took up, and found to be alarged clasped knife, with the letters R. S. scratchedrudely on the handle, I shuddered to think thatwith this very instrument the fatal deed was proba¬bly committed, and we were confirmed in this opi¬nion by discovering marks of blood on the handle,which the water had not wholly washed away.When the ceremony of interment was over, andbefore any person began to retire, Mr Thomson,standing on a grave-stone, informed the company,that it was the wish of the sheriff that no personshould be permitted to leave the church-yard till anexamination had taken place, which might serve tothrow some light on this dark and horrid business..“ Huzza!” cried Robert Stewart; “ that’s right! I'llguard the yett, and let none out.” “ You are savedthat trouble, young man,” replied Mr Thomson, “forthere are constables already posted at the gate, andnone need attempt to escape. ’ ’ “I must request everyperson,” continued he, “ to sit down on the grass inthe vacant space at the north side of the church, ar¬ranged as nearly in rows as possible. That youmay not think this request unnecessary, I will ex¬plain to you the reason of it. The murderer, who¬ever lie was, left the impression of his shoe on somenew dug ground near the spot where the crime wascommitted. An accurate drawing of tho form anddimensions of that impression has been taken by myfriend Mr Johnson, and is now in my hand. Ourintention is to examine the feet of all who arepresent and compare their shoes with this draught,m hopes that this measure may tend to detect theguilty person.” My eyes were steadily fixed onRobert Stewart during this speech, and I observed| his face turn red and pale by turns. The marks ofguilt were visible, I thought, on his countenance ;but when Mr Thomson ceased speaking, he had re¬covered himself sufficiently to exclaim, “What good’ill that do ? D’ye think the man that killed the las-wad hae the face to come here? or, if he was here,how could you find him out by the sted o’ his foot ?A hunder folk may ha’e shoon o’ the same size, andI' if made by ae shoemaker, they may be a’ the sameshape too. It may mak innocent folk suspected,and will do mair ill than good; sae for my part Iwinna consent till’t. Come, let us be off lads.” Ashe spake, he pulled some of his companions by the, arm, and turned towards the gate, with the intentionof making his escape. “ The first man that leavesthe church-yard before he is examined,” cried MrJohnson from among the crowd, “ will bo taken upas a suspected person, and committed to jail. 1have the authority of the sheriff for saying so.” Amurmur of approbation succeeded his speech, andStewart turned back intimidated, and seated him¬self on a grave-stone at a little distance, folding hisarms across his breast, and kicking his heels againstI one of the feet of the stone, in order to appear verymuch at his ease. As soon as silence was obtained,Mr Thomson, in a fow simple words, refuted Stewart’sobjections, and at the same time held up to public viewMr Johnson’s drawing of the footstep, to convincethe people that there was something so remarkablypeculiar in its shape, there could be little doubt offinding out the person to whom it belonged, by themeans proposed. Every one now seemed eager tohave his shoes‘examined, and hastened to seat him¬self on the grass. Two shoemakers were employedto take the measurement, and Mr Johnson accom¬panied them with the drawing in his hand. Stewart6had placed himself iu the middle of the crowd, andI stiir hhii mate' one oh two unsuccessful attemptsto shift his; seat, so as to escape cxaahdntrtioh. Whenit last his turn came, hfs colour suddenly changedto a deadly pale, and wi th a horrid groan, he fellsenseless on the' ground. He was restored by theapplication of some water, which was quickly pro¬cured, and looking wildly round him, he exclaimed,“You cannot say that I did it! it was dark—whosaw me ?” “God Almighty saw you, unhappy youngman!” said Mr Johnson, in a tone which thrilledthrough my heart; for he1 had now taken the dimen¬sions of Stewart's shoe, and found it correspond inevery particular to the copy he had drawn. Thomurderer, for I had now no' doubt that this was be,naving recovered liis strength, started up on his; feet,and* drawing a sharp-pointed knife from his pocket,threatened to stab to the heart the man that laidhands on him. He then made a desperate spring,and before any person had sufficient presence ofmind to prevent him, reached the church-yard wall,which he cleared without difficulty, but losing hisbalance when he reached the other side, he stumbledforward, and fell on the point of his knife. Ho wTasnow overtaken and' secured, and as he was losingmuch blood, he was conveyed to the manse, whichhappened to be the nearest bouse ; the surgeon, whowas present, attended him for the purpose of dress¬ing his wound. I1 he kuife had entered the bowels,and made a dangerous wound, which the surgeonimipediately pronouueed likely to proV6 fatal.TTfe unfortunate wretch overheard the opinion ofthe surgeon, and cried out with a savage joy, whichfilled every person present with horror, “ Then I’lldisappoint the law yet. If I could na niak myescape in ao way, I’ll Jo it in another. Sleep, Sleej),they say, it’s a sleep.” ‘‘Alas! young man,” SaidMr ’fhomsoii, shuddering as he spake, “in thf£t7isleep there are awful dreams to the wicked—dreamsdo I say? they are horrible realities. God grantthat I may not find-—” “It’s a lie!” interruptedhe with a dreadful oath, “ I’ll no believe it—sac yoneedna preach to me.” Mr Thomson, finding hecould do no good by continuing the conversation,loft the room; and it was not long after this helearned that the wretched murderer died, still har¬dened and impenitent.THE WIDOW AND 11EH SON.During my residence in the country, 1 used fre¬quently to attend at the old village church. Itsshadowy aisles, its mouldering monuments, its darkoaken pannelling, all reverend with the gloom ofdeparted years, seemed to fit it for the haunt ofsolemn meditation. A Sunday, too, in the countryis so holy in its repose—such a pensive quiet reignsover the face of nature, that every restless passionis charmed down, and we feel all the natural reli¬gion of the soul gently springing up within us:“ Sweet day, so pure, So calm, BO bright,The bridle of the earth and sky.”I do not pretend to be what is called a devout man;but there are feelings that visit me in a countrychurch, and the beautiful serenity of nature, whichI experience no where else ; and if not a more re¬ligious, I think I am a better man on Sunday, thanon any other day of the seven.But iu this church I felt myself continually thrownhack upon the world, by the frigidity and pomp ofthe poor worms around nVe. The only being thatseemed thoroughly to feel the humble and prostrate3piety of a true Christian, was a poor decrepit oldwoman, bending under the weight of years and in¬firmities. She bore the traces of something betterthan abject poverty. The fingerings of decent pridewere still visible in her appearance. Her dress,though humble in the extreme, was scrupulouslyclean. Some trivial respect, too, had been awardedher; for she did not take her seat among the villagepoor, but sat alone on the steps of the altar. Sheseemed to have survived all love, all friendship, allsociety, and to have nothing left but the hopes ofheaven. When I saw her feebly rising and bend¬ing her aged form in prayer—habitually conningher prayer-book, which her palsied hand and failingeyes would scarce permit her to read, but which sheevidently knew by heart—I felt persuaded that thofaltering voice of that poor woman arose to heavenfar before the responses of the clerk, the swell of theorgan, or the chaunting of the choir.I am fond of loitering about country churches,and this was so delightfully situated, that it frequent¬ly attracted me. It stood on a knoll, round whicha small stream made a beautiful bend, and thenwound its way through a long reach of soft meadowscenery. The church was surrounded by yew trees,which seemed almost coeval with itself. Its tallgothic spire shot up lightly from among them, withrooks and crows generally wheeling about it. Iwas seated there one still sunny morning, watchingtwo labourers who were digging a grave. They hadchosen one of the most remote and neglected cor¬ners of the church-yard ; where from the number ofnameless graves around, it would appear that theindigent poor and friendless were huddled into theearth. 1 was told that the new-made grave wasfor the only son of a poor widow. While I wasmeditating on the distinctions of worldly rank,irhich extend thus down into the very dust, the toll•of the bell announced the approach of the funeral.They were the obsequies of poverty, with whichpride had nothing to do. A coffin of the plainestmaterials, without pall or covering, was borne bysome of the villagers. The sexton walked before,with an air of cold indifference. There were nomock mourners in the trappings of affected woe :but there was one real mourner, who feebly totteredafter the corpse. It was the aged mother of thedeceased—the poor old woman whom I had seenseated on the steps of the altar. She was supportedby a humble friend, wlio was endeavouring to com¬fort her. A few of tho neighbouring poor had joinedthe train, and some of tho children of tho villagewere running hand in hand, now shouting with un¬thinking mirth, and now pausing to gaze, with chil¬dish curiosity, on the grief of the mourner.As the funeral train approached the grave, thoparson issued from the church porch, arrayed in thesurplice, with prayer book in hand, and attended bythe clerk. The service, however, was a mere act ofcharity. The deceased had been destitute, and th*surviver pennyless. It was shuffled through, there¬fore, in form, but coldly and unfeelingly. The wellfed priest moved but a few steps from the church-door ; his voice could scarcely be heard at the grave,and never did I hear the funeral service, that sub¬lime and touching ceremony, turned into such afrigid mummery of words.I approached the grave. The coffin was placedon the ground. On it were inscribed the name andage of tho deceased—“ George Somers, aged 26years.” The poor mother had been assisted to kneeldown at the head of it. Her withered hands wereclasped, as if in prayer; but I could perceive by afeeble rocking of the body, and a convulsive motionof tho lips, that she was gazing on the last relics ofher son, with the yearnings of a mother’s heart.10The service being ended, preparations were madeto deposit the coffin in the earth. There was thatbustling noise which breaks so harshly on the fed-ings of grief and affection ; directions given in thecold tones of business ; the striking of spades intosand and gravel; which at the grave of those welove, is, of all sounds the most withering. Thebustle around seemed to awaken the mother from awretched reverie. She raised her glazed eyes, andlooked about with a faint wildness. As the menapproached with cords to lower the coffin into thegrave, she rung her hands, and broke into an agonyof grief. The poor woman who attended her tookher by the arm, endeavouring to raise her from theearth, and to whisper something like consolation—“ Nay, now—nay, now—don’t take it so sorely toheart.” She could only shake her head and wringlier hands, as one not to be comforted.As they lowered the body into the earth, thecreaking of the cords seemed to agonize her; hutwhen on some accidental obstruction there was ajhstling of the coffin, all the tenderness of the mo¬ther hurst forth ; as if any harm could come to himwho was far beyond tho reach of worldly suffering.I could see no more—my heart swelled into mythroat—my eyes filled with tears—I felt as if I wereacting a barbarous part, in standing by and gazingidly on this scene of maternal anguish. I wander¬ed to another part of tho church-yard, where I re¬mained until the funeral train had dispersed.When I saw the mother slowly and painfullyquitting the grave, leaving behind her the remainsof all that was dear to her on earth, and returningto silence and destitution, my heart ached for her.What, thought I, are the distresses of the rich ? theyhave friends to soothe—pleasures to beguile—a worldto divert and dissipate their griefs. What are thesorrows of the yonng? their growing minds soon11close above tbe wound—their elastic spirits soonrise beneath the pressure—their green and ductileaffections soon twine round new objects. But thosorrows of the poor, who have no outward appliancesto soothe—the sorrows of the aged, with whom lifeat best is but a wintry day, and who can look for noafter-growth of joy—the sorrows of the widow, aged,solitary, destitute, mourning over an only eon, thelast solace of her years; these are indeed sorrowswhich make us feel the impotency of consolation.It was sometime before I left tho church-yard.On my way homeward I met with the womau whohad acted as comforter ; she was just returned fromaccompanying the mother to her lonely habitation,and I drew from her some particulars connectedwith the affecting scene I had witnessed.The parents of the deceased had resided in thovillage from childhood. They had inhabited one ofthe neatest cottages, and by various rural occupa¬tions, and the assistance of a small garden, had sup¬ported themselves creditably and comfortably, andled a happy and blameless life. They had oije son,who had grown up to be the staff and pride of theirage.—“Oh, Sir!” said the good woman, “he wassuch a likely lad, so sweet-tempered, so kind to every¬one around him, so dutiful to his parents! It didone’s heart good to see him on a Sunday, dressedout in his best, so tall, so straight, so cheery, sup¬porting his old mother to church—for she was al¬ways fonder of leaning on George’s arm, than onher goodman’s; and poor soul she might well beproud of him, for a finer lad there was not in all tirocountry round.”Unfortunately, the son was tempted, during a yearof scarcity and agricultural hardship, to enter intotho service of one of the small craft that plied on aneighbouring river. He had not been long in thisemploy, when he was entrapped by a press-gang, andcarried off to sea. His parents received tidings ofhis seizure ; but beyond that they could learn no¬thing. It was the loss of their main prop. Thefather, who was already infirm, grew heartless andmelancholy', and sunk into his grave. The widow,left lonely' in her age and feebleness, could no longersupport herself, and came upon the parish. Stillthere was a kind feeling towards her throughout thevillage, and a certain respect, as being one of theoldest inhabitants. As no one applied for the cot¬tage in which she had passed so many happy days,she was permitted to remain in it, where she livedsolitary and almost helpless. The few wants of na¬ture were chiefly supplied from the scanty produc¬tions of her little garden, which the neighbourswould now and then cultivate for her. It was buta few days before the time at which these circum¬stances were told me, that she was gathering somevegetables for her repast, when she heard the cot¬tage door which faced the garden suddenly' open ;a stranger came out, and seemed to be lookingeagerly and wildly' around, lie was dressed inseaman’s clothes, was emaciated and ghastly pale,and bore the air of one broken by sickness and hard¬ships. He saw her and hastened towards her; buthis steps were faint and faultering ; he sunk on hisknees before her, and sobbed like a child. Thepoor woman gazed upon him with a vacant anclwandering eye. “ Oh my dear, dear mother! don’tyou know your son ? your poor boy George 1 ” It wasthe wreck of her once noble lad, who, shattered bywounds, by sickness, and by foreign imprisonment,had at length dragged his wasted limbs homeward,to repose among the scenes of his childhood.I will not attempt to detail the particulars of sucha meeting, where joy and sorrow were so completelyblended; still he was alive ; he was come home ; hemight yet live to comfort and cherish her old age ;13Nature, however, was exhausted in him ; and if anything had been wanting to finish the work of fate,the desolation of his native cottage had been suffi¬cient. He stretched himself on the pallet on whichbis widowed mother had passed many a sleeplessnight, and he never rose from it again.The villagers, when they heard that George‘Somers had returned, crowded to see him, offeringevery comfort and assistance that their humblemeans afforded. Ho was too weak, however, totalk; ho could only look his thanks. His motherwas his constant attendant; and he seemed unwill¬ing to be helped by any other hand.There is something in sickness, that breaks downthe pride of manhood, that softens the heart, andbrings it back to the feelings of infancy. Who thathas languished, even in advanced life, in sicknessand despondency ; who that lias pined on a wearybed, in the neglect and loneliness of a foreign land,but has thought on the mother “ tiiat looked on hischildhood,” that smoothed his pillow, and adminis¬tered to his helplessness? Oh! there is an endur¬ing tenderness in the love of a mother to a son, thattranscends all other affections of the heart. It is(neither chilled by selfishness, nor daunted by dan¬ger, nor weakened by worthlessness, nor stifled byingratitude. She will sacrifice every comfort to hisconvenience ; she will surrender every pleasure toIns enjoyment; she will glory in his fame, and exultin his prosperity: and if adversity overtake him, bewill be the dearer to her by misfortune : and if dis¬grace settle upon his name, she will still love andcherish him ; and if the world beside cast him off,she will be all the world to him.Poor George Somers had known well what it wasto be in sickness, and none to soothe—lonely, and inprison, and none to visit him. He could not endure| his mother from his sight; if she moved away, hisu#ye would follow Jjei'. She would sit for hours byhis bed, watching him as he slept. Sometimes hewould start from a feverish dream, and look anxiouslyup until he saw her venerable form bending overhim, when he would take her hand, lay it on hisbosom, and fall asleep with the tranquillity of a child.In this way he died.My first impulse on hearing this humble tale ofaffliction, was to visit the cottage of the mourner,and administer pecuniary assistance, and, if possiblecomfort. I found, however, on inquiry, that thegood feelings of the villagers had prompted them todo every thing that the case admitted ; and as thepoor know best how to console each other’s sorrows,1 did not venture to intrude.The next Sunday I was at the village church,when, to my surprise, I saw the poor old womantottering down the aisle to her accustomed seat onthe steps of the altar.She had made an effort to put on something likemourning for her son ; and nothing could be moretouching than this struggle between pious affectionand utter poverty : a black ribband or so,—a fadedHack handkerchief, and one or two more suchhumble attempts to express by out-ward signs thegrief which passes show. When I looked round onthe storied monuments, the stately hatchments, thecold marble pomp, with which grandeur mournedmagnificently over departed pride, and turned tothis poor widow, bowed down by age and sorrow, atthe altar of her God, and offering up the prayersand praises of a pious, though broken heart, 1 feltthat this living monument of real grief was worththem all.I related her story to some of the wealthy mem¬bers of the congregation, and they were moved by it.They exerted themselves to render her situationmore comfortable, and to lighten her afflictions. It15was, however, but smoothing a few steps to thograve. In the course of a Sunday or two after shewas missed from her usual seat at church, and be-: fore I left the neighbourhood, I heard with a feelingI of satisfaction, that she had quietly breathed lieflast, and had gone to rejoin those she loved, in thatworld where sorrow is never known, and triends arenever parted.j ' 'ENCOUNTER WITH A UON,The day was exceedingly pleasant, and not a cloudwas to be seen. For a mile or two we travelledalong the hanks of the river, which in this partabounded in tall mat-rushes. The dogs seemedmuch to enjoy prowling about and examining everybushy place, and at last met with some pbject amongthe rushes, which caused them to set up a mostvehement and determined harking. We exploredthe spot with caution, as we suspected, from the pe¬culiar tone of the hark, that it teas what it preyedto be, lions. Having encouraged the dogs to driyethem out, a task which they performed with gregtwillingness, wo had a full view of an enormous bl^ckmained lion and lioness. The latter wgs seen onlyfor a minute, as she made her escape up the river,under concealment of the rushes ; but the lion comesteadily forward, and stood still to look at us. Atthis moment we felt our situation not free from dan¬ger, as the animal seemed preparing to spring uponus, and wo were standing on the bank, at the dis¬tance of only a few yards from him, most of us l*eingon foot and unarmed, without any visible possibilityof escaping. I had given up my horse to the hunters.16and was on foot myself; but there M as no time forfear, and it was useless to attempt avoiding him.I stood well on my guard, holding my pistols in myhand, with my finger on the trigger, and those whohad muskets, kept themselves prepared in the samemanner. But at this instant the dogs boldly flewin between us and the lion, and surrounding him,kept him at bay by their violent and resolute bark¬ing. The courage of these faithful animals was mostadmirable ; they advanced up to the side of the hugebeast, and stood making the greatest clamour in hisface, without the least appearance of fear. Thelion, conscious of his strength, remained unmovedat their noisy attempts, and kept his head towardsus. At one moment, the dogs, perceiving his eyesthus engaged, had advanced close to his feet, andseemed as if they would actually seize hold of him;but they paid dearly for their imprudence, for, with¬out discomposing the majestic and steady attitudein which he stood fixed, he merely moved his paw,and at the next instant I beheld tMro lying dead.In doing this he made so little exertion, that it wasscarcely perceptible by what means they had beenkilled. Of the time which we gained by the inter¬ference of the dogs, not a moment was lost; wefired upon him ; one of the balls went through hisside just between the short ribs, and the blood im¬mediately began to flow ; but the animal still re¬mained standing in the same position. We had nodoubt that he would spring upon us ; every gun wasinstantly re-loaded ; but happily we were mistaken,and were not sorry to see him move quietly away,though I had hoped in a few minutes to have beenenabled to take hold of his paw without danger.17THE SOLDIER’S WIFE.It is now many years since tlie first battalion of the17th Regiment of Foot, under orders to embark forIndia,—that far distant land, where so many of ourbrave countrymen have fallen victims to the climate,and where so few have slept in what soldiers call“ the bed of glory,”—were assembled in the barrackyard of Chatham, to be inspected previously to theirpassing on board the transports, which lay mooredin the Downs.j It was scarcely day-break, when the merry drumi and fife were heard over all parts of the town, andthe soldiers were seen sallying forth from theirquarters, to join the ranks, with their bright fire¬locks on their shoulders, and the knapsacks andcanteens fastened to their backs by belts as whiteas snow. Each soldier was accompanied by somefriend or acquaintance,—or by some individual, witha dearer title to his regard than either ; and therewas a strange and sometimes a whimsical minglingof weeping and laughter among the assembled groups.The second battalion was to remain in England,| and the greater portion of the division was present,r to bid farewell to their old companions in arms.. But among husbands and wives, uncertainty as toI their destiny prevailed—for the lots were yet to bedrawn—the lots that were to decide which of the■ women should accompany the regiment, and whichshould remain behind. Ten of eacli company wereto be taken, and chance was to be the only arbiter.Without noticing what passed elsewhere, 1 confinedmy attention to that company which was command-] ed by my friend Captain Loden, a brave and excel¬lent officer, who, I am sure, has no more than my-i self forgotten the scene to which I refei\The women had gathered round the flag-serjeant.who held the lots in his cap, ten of them marked,“ to go,” arid all the others containing the fatalwords “ to remain'' It was a moment of dreadful IBu^p&iee, and never have I seen the extreme of jfcnxieVv'SO powerfully depicted in the countenancesof human heings, as in the countenances of each Ofthe soldiers’ wives who compiosed that group. Oneadvanced and drew her ticket * it was against her,and she retreated sobbing. Another, she succeeded;and giving a loud huzza, ran oft' to the distant ranksto embrace her husband. A third came forward withhesitating steps: tears were already chasing eachother down her cheek, and there was an unnaturalpaleness on her interesting and youthful countenance.She put her small hand into the serjeant’s cap, and1 saw by the rise and fall of her bosom even more:than her looks revealed. She unrolled the paper,looked upon it, and with a deep groan, fell back andfainted. So intense was the anxiety of every per¬son present, that she remained unnoticed, until thetickets had been drawn, and the greater number ofthe Women had left the spot. I then looked roundand beheld her supported by her husband, who waskneeling upon the ground, gazing upon her face,and drying her fast falling tears with his coarsehandkerchief, and now and then pressing it to hfsown manly cheek.Captain Loden advanced towards them.—“ I amterry, Henry Jenkins,” said he, “ that fate has beenagainst you ; but bear up and ho stout-hearted.”“ I am so, Captain,” said the soldier, as lie look¬ed up, and passed his rough hand across his face ;“ but ’tis a hard thing to part from a wife, and sheso soon to be a mother.”“Oh! Captain,” sobbed tiro young woman, “asyouare both a husband and a father, do riot take himfrom me. I have no friend in the wide World, hutone, and will you let him bide with me ? Oh! take19me -nth him,—take me with liim,—for tiie love ofGod take me with him, Captain.” She fell on herknees, laid hold of the officer’s sash, clasped it firm¬ly between her hands, and looked tip in his face, ex¬claiming, “Oh! leave me my only hope, at least tillGod has given me another and repeated in heart¬rending accents, “ Oh! take rhe with him, take mowith him!”The' gallant officer was himself in tears; he knewthat it was impossible to grant the'poor wife’s peti¬tion, without creating much discontent in his com¬pany, and he gazed upon them with that feelingwith which a good man always regards the suffer¬ings1 he cannot alleviate. At this momeut, a smart! yonfig soldier stepped forward, and stood before the| Captain, with his hand to his cap.“ And what do you want, my good fellow?” saidI the officer.“ My name’s John Carty, plase yer honour, andI belong to the second battalion.”“ And what do you want here?”“Only, yer honour,” Said Carty, scratching hishead, “ that poor man and his wife there, is Sorrow-hearted at parting, I’m thinking.”“ Well, and what then ?”“ Why, yer honour, they say I am a likely lad,and I know I’m fit for sarvice,—and if your honourwOttld only let that poor fellow take my place inCaptain Bond’s company, and let me take his placein yours,—why, yer honour would make two poorthings hap^y, and save the life of one of ’em, I’mthinking.”Captain Lodeii considered for a few minutes, auddirecting the young Irishman to remain where howas, proceeded to his brother officer’s quarters. Hesoon made arrangements for the exchange of thef soMiers, and' returned to the place where he hadLoft them.20“ Well, John Carty,” said lie, “ you go to Bengalvith me, and you, Henry Jenkins, remain at homewith your wife.”“Thank yer honour,” said John Carty, againtouching his cap as he walked off.Henry Jenkins and his wife both rose from theground, and rushed into each other’s arms. “Godbless you, Captain,” said the soldier, as he pressedhis wife closer to his bosom. “ Oh, bless him forever!” said the wife ; “bless him with prosperity,and a happy heart!—bless his wife, and bless hischildren and she again fainted.The officer, wiping a tear from his eye, and ex¬claiming, “ May you never want a friend when 1am far from you,—you, my good lad, and youramiable and loving wife !” passed on to his company.The happy couple went in search of John Carty.******About twelve months since, as two boys werewatching the sheep confided to their charge, upona wide heath, in the county of Somerset, their at¬tention was attracted by a soldier, who walked alongapparently with much fatigue, and at length stoppedto rest his weary limbs beside the old finger-post,which at one time pointed out the way to the neigh¬bouring villages, which now afforded no informationto the traveller, for age had rendered it useless.The boys were gazing upon him with much curi¬osity, when he beckoned them towards him, and en¬quired the way to the village of Eldenby.The eldest, a fine intelligent lad of about twelveyears of age, pointed to the path, and asked if hewas going to any particular house in the village.“ No, my little lad,” said the soldier ; “ but it ison the high road to Frome, and I have friends there;but, in truth, I am very wearied, and perhaps may21find in yon village some person who will befriend apoor fellow, and look to God for a reward.“ Sir,” said the boy, “my father was a soldier,many years ago, and he dearly loves to look upon ared coat; if you come with me, you may be sure ofa welcome.”“ And you can tell us stories about foreign parts,said the younger lad, a fine chubby-cheeked fellow,who, with his watch-cloak thrown carelessly over hisshoulder, and his crook in his right hand, had beenminutely examining every portion of the soldier’sdress.The boys gave instructions to their intelligentdog, who, they said, would take good care of thesheep during their absence ; and in a few minutesthe soldier and his young companions reached thegate of a flourishing farm house, which had all theexternal tokens of prosperity and happiness. Theyounger boy trotted on a few paces before, to givehis parents notice that they had invited a strangerto rest beneath their hospitable roof; and the soldierhad just crossed the threshold of the door, when hewas received by a joyful cry of recognition from hisold friends, Henry Jenkins and his wife ; and he waswelcomed as a brother to the dwelling of those, who,in all human probability, were indebted to him fortheir present enviable station.It is unnecessary to pursue this story further thanto add, that John Carty spent his forlough at Elden-by farm; and that at the expiration of it, his dis¬charge was purchased by-Ids grateful friends. Heis now living in their happy dwelling: and his careand exertions have contributed greatly to increasetheir prosperity. Nothing has gone wrong withthem since John Carty was their steward.“ Cast thy bread upon the waters,” said the wiseman, “ and it shall be returned to thee after manydays.”HKLL BRIDGE.There is a narrow pass between tbe mountains; inthe neighbourhood of Bendearg, in the Highlands ofScotland, which, at a little distance, has the appear¬ance of an immense artificial bridge thrown Over atremendous chasm ; but on nearer approach, is seento be a wall of nature’s own masonry, formed of vastarid rugged bodies of solid roci, piled on each other,as if in the giant’s sport of architecture. Its sidesare in some places covered with trees of a consider¬able size ; and the passenger who has a head steadyenough to look down, may see the eyrie of birds ofprey beneath his feet. The path across is do narrow,fhat it cannot admit of two persons passing ; and,indeed, liqire but natives would attempt the danger¬ous route, though it saves a circuit of three' miles :yet it sometimes happens that two travellers meet,owing to the curve formed by the pas^ preventing aview across from, pither side ; arid when this is thecase, one lies dowii, while the other crawls ovfcr hisbody. One’ day, a Highlander,, walking along thepass, when be had gained the highest part of thearch, observed another coming leisurely up, and be¬ing himself one of the patrician order, called him tolie down,; the person, however, disregarded the com¬mand, and the Highlanders met on the summit.They were Cairn and Bendcarg,. of two families inenmity to each other. “ I was first at the top,11’ saidBendearg, “and called out first, lie down, that Imight pass over in peace.” “ 'VVhen the Grant pros¬trates himself before the M'Phersoh,” answered tliQother, “ it must be with a sword through his body.”“ Turn back, tlien,” said Bendearg, “and, repass.asyou came.;” “ Go back yourself, if you like it,” re¬plied Grant ; “ I will not be flic first of my name toturn before tbe M'Pherson.” They then threwtheir bomtets over tbe precipice, awe! advanced witha slow and cautious pace closer to each other—theywere both unarmed. Stretching their limbs likemen preparing for a desperate Struggle, they plant¬ed their ftet firmly on the' ground, compressed theirlips, knit their browS, and fixing fierce and watch¬ful eyes on each other, stood prepared for an onset.They both grappled at the same moment; but,being of an equal strength, wrere unable to shift eacliother’s position—standing fixed on the rock, withsuppressed breath, and muscles strained to the topof their bent, like statues carved out of the solidstone. At length M'Pherson, suddenly removinghis right foot, so as to give him greater purchase,stooped his body, and bent his enemy down withhim by main strength, till they both leaned overthe precipice, looking downward into the terribleabyss. The contest was as yet doubtful, for Granthad placed his foot firmly oh an elevation at thebrink, and had equal command of his enemy, hut atthis moment M‘Pherson sunk slowly any firmly onhis knee, and while Grant suddenly started back,stooping to take the supposed advantage, whirledhim over his head into the gulf. M‘Pherson fellbackwards, his body partly hanging over the rock,a fragment gave way beneath him, and he sunkfarther, till catching with a desperate effort at thesolid stone above, he regained his footing. Therewas a pause of death-like stillness, and the holdheart of M‘Pherson felt sick and faint. At length,as if compelled unwillingly by some mysteriousfeeling, lie looked down over the precipice. Granthad caught with a death-like grip, by the ruggedpoint of a rock—his enemy was almost within hisreach. His face was turned upward, and there wasin it horror and despair; hut he uttered no word orcry. The next moment he loosed his hold, and hiabrains wore dashed out before the eyes of his heredi-24tary foe ; the mangled body disappeared among thetrees, and his last heavy and hollow sound arosefrom the bottom. M'Phcrson returned home analtered man. lie purchased a commission in thearmy, and fell bravely in the wars of the Peninsula.The Gaelic name of the place where this tragedywas acted signifies Hell Bridge.F1N1&