PLEASURES05MATRIMONY,IKTERWr-TR* WITri BU'DRTdomical and Delightful Stories?WITUThe C 'arming Dcligh s aid RavishingSweets ofWooing and Wedlock,! J&i all its Diverting EnjoymentsFALK l RK:fyintfd end Sold by T. yebtKtffnr*rxmPLEA UEESOFMATjfulMONY,&C.IT is a firar.sje thir,g 'h*t people fliouMk k of tr e^n co-niorts or .pleasuresct M Urimony as if chev could be num-;]bei d; wdere.as 1 affirm, that tht pieafures©f ran rt^uony are uumherlefs. N1'-) won¬der then t ere is nothing more defined, or€vrn covered than ma ritnorty, and that ithss been m inch high eiteem among all;na-io' S from the beginning ot the w »rld.L IS true there r.as been a clamour agairttfit ; and miry hit cot demn it. and cry idown, naiiLks comforts for difeomfotts.( 3 >And yet even thofe who complain *he!ott a^ainU ma'rmo'iy wd! alio raatere are fifteen comfbas i" it hoc f io,0 gh there were no more, which y< Iil not grint, who, that is not a madman,>u!d not marry to er.jov fif een I climfors as a!i the wor^ cannot fi dI n b- fid s ? B it what wil! fuen men laywooing? I own indeed it is not ma-ij ony it el but it is the highway to i|,ht that marries without it lo'Vs onetee chiefett pltafures that belong to it.t. that in order fn rcat of the picafurestf Pvl fnmon', I fr d it nec IT^ry to begin1 h W-ioicK?.flWooing cord's in a m-n’s pitchingon fome o; ] (St of his afFrCtions of thewale i<x; and u is a comfort ther*; are■lire maids than mankind, that he is notr finrd in.his choice ; for it o-e will not,ilp'her will VV7eil having fixed u,pcaoil defire.i fits ar.d foH.nd out > er habi-!o • with wnet h»r fortune is! hst tq cp? himfelf fi e the taiiorfcmilrtfs ctn m-k.- im and pre^.es for is ad.trefs; a^d i is a plealurehim o '-e thi«s rigged, to win his feirtreis. Now, wbel.ter the girls havei( 4 )ttfither or mother, uncle or *unt. there: inone hut wisl admit him to pay a vifihis nai'trers, ^h;n he comes in thematrim* nv.But now what a p^eifure it is to be *imined to a kifs, and a gracious fmifrom his miftrefs. After that he rajjutt Ihewed himfclf, and talked idly i.her about half an hour, what a pleafu jtis it to him at his departure, to oblige Mlmaid with the king’* picture, which cauf jther to give fuch a charaftrr of him. e|'pecially if tht pt£>ure happens to bein i;o1d as he begets in the young worn*an affeftion towards him; which, ifco es o knav at the fecond meetingis infpf ffi e to defcribe the tranfportsp’.'S him into; it infpires such j fr in bbrealt that he can fc»rce tell where heor what he does. B it. at his departur (he fcarce forgets to double his gem r fito t e maid, as (he gives her promiicsfurther fervices to him. Nor is the ^oubaggage w« r!e than her word for (h t:wed knows her own intereft : and therfore in about a day or two Dear miftre ifays fhe von cannot imagine where I haibeen this morning! No, fays the you’1*1totr'( 5 )"gentlewomin, now Ihoultl I ? Why, faysnfhe I have been at the conjuror's; butyou cann >t think »hat a mau he is! Idid but afk whether luch a gemlemancourted my miftrefs? and casing his evesi on his book, he told m« he did; and <se-: fcribed him fo exaftly, that no painter• cou'd have drawn his pitlure better; andIbefii s nat, he told me that this was the<verr man and no other, whom fortunedefined for you; bu I woulf uct havecyou believe me, bat go to him yourfelf(“ft O-morrow.The young gentlewoman hearing thisris alt agog to know the truth of the mat-i ter and having more mind for marbagethan devotion, mHead of prayers, go tolithe conjurer, and he had not been a cun-ijjnmg man if e hid not told her right,ubeiug inftriift d by the maid beforehandhwhat to fay. Well, the young gentle-liwomaa being fatisfied it *va the will oflithe (Urs, begins prefently to have a good'opinion of him, of which the maid failsrmot to acquaint him. Now judge, read¬er if this is not an extraordinary plea-ifure ; for what can contribute mere to hiswhi^h yis ds Jijm Jfch a mightyplcaT.rt, th«(t i e Can ta.'k oi r.clhVn^ tifa;but the 'purple vioi'et./ihe bljulhi g ro e,• .and, the liiv '* hUen'/s , the pi/e.'i'.x'' .heft.'-is not io perfumed »s ft: - ; a d to i e ch iaher p-rfon, the ri.tr qt M xi;6 an^ .Pe¬ru arc far too • n to i: ma id 6'C p ci-ti n with her,?' tiay ai! the dazft: gj wele of'tho'K t ' mu ft gvv - way to herti-:perior l*;ltre. But when they havedra k i'i the r.crIt Vvine, to recom- ipence him for a!i hi^ painj and chaiges,his tnii’refs con-de! encir to treat him byletting nim tafte ti e charming cherries i F;hi-r coral lips and it.ck rom tlienc • theflagrant breath thai h.-r exc edr, A.rabi>*arich perfttu e; which v. ra;s him in fuch'pleafure. that the yqnnj Iprrk imagineshe ir in heaven And if the very wav tomatrimony be thus pav« d with debitht,wliat rtiuft the end ot it, be ? And trulyWere it not fo, no vou think tKe countryclown would plough sr’d Harrow vet' flingawxy hit fickle and fi til for (he 'love ofAmarilla ? Or. w uld the trAcelman, « . -j-.t • > »“ , t Li V U r f C * < ' - :leave his fhep but for the _p.e' fu'res thatat.end •. ? It is tnis m*kes ti e apprenticecourt in' hugger-mugger, and values netI( <5 )iatisfeSlion, than |o fi'^d his r iUrde go t»the d vi! to nitke lure oi hit .. Buti befides ihti, there ptfltE man) let¬ters*; and, O! wh&l a pita ure u is t»him to ranlack all the i-citOen its . tftn-plmients for fine tropes and figures t»a earn bis ftue with. But thtn h r an-. f>> ers; how ranlporuag tr>ty are! howoften does he kiis the blotted characters ?B t fee hoA Irelti ule&fures crowd uponhim. Juit now he is told 1 is mil refs w illbe at a cancing n Lime Ibtet; this Iansthe increafinp flime ; nethwg will finebut he rnill be with her; and then howhe (mirks and fimp rs ; but a hen he feeshor dance he is al over tranfports ; howmuch dots he admire her loft) carrisgc;the holding up her petticoat enchants him;Iand the celelli.*! motion of her buttocksmake his teeth chatter and his heart gopit a pat to think wha he ihall do withfo rm ch excellence! But it would takea volume to tell the.plt’afims of this in¬terview ; let it lufiice tof give him *n op¬portunity to fleal her pocket handker-I chief, *.nd to treat her and her maid atthe tnvsrn. IScr can his mill r^fs nowrdufe to let him take as kiff.s aB( * )£he lofs of his frftdom, when once capti¬vated by the fair bo annah’s bright e\t —So mighttiy tranfporting are the pieafuresof wooing above any other pieal’eres inthe world.Bi t if the pleafures of Wooing are fovtry great then whai are the piealur s ofW edding f CoRfcnt being given, and tnewedding refolved on the lover nas nowfret accefs to his miUrefs, and ma* kifsabove board as much as he pleafes; thewhich is another vaft pleaiure ; as it isalio to fino hinfelf the only welcomegueft in t,he houf-, and, as it were, alreadyinoculated into the family : And then, itis anot: er pleafure to hear even one com¬mending his choice, and telling him howamiable and virtuous a wife he had choieti.Vifitors croud in upon him. efpteUhy ofthe fail iex, afking a thoufand impertinentqueftions. which mufl needs be greatpleaiure for him to anfwer. When is thedav ? cries Mrs Pra^e-apace. Pray, Sir,how near is ) our happinefs ? cries Tit¬tle-tattle. But, in the midli of thefe ini-pertintnees, what a pleali re is it to theyoung n an to he&r his moihei eh takingthe wemen up, and faying, Held, neigh-( 9 )fcours, fair and foftiy goes far! (he fhallnot be married hugger-mugger ; my childfeall be married iccording to her quality;I am not for a ftolen marriige.But «re will talk no more of orelimina-Ties, but come to the thing itfelf; for allthings being fettled, and the appointedmorning some up gets the bridegroom,mud dreffes hhafelf in ail his gaudy at¬tire.The bridemuid hxftens to the bride’s©lumber, and there finds her wafhedbreathing nothieg but ellence and jeffa-mice, and her fine hoiland fmoclc readyto put on; fo that being dreifed in a trice,file appears more like an a igel than likea mortal. She was fcarcely dreff d,but the bridegroom is coming into herehamoer, and with fubmiffive knees, adoreshis earthly deity, and ktflss the lilies ofher wh’te hands, and figs a vtbroful neftarfrom her lips, *no th n conducts her tothe room of Hate, where they both Handto welcome tluir invited guelts.— Andfure this mull yield him much pteafure.Now thu g being readv, they take coach,environed »y a greit ;rowd of fpefitators,of which not one of them but mult fayi( K> )for.ethingr   There’s a well matchedejtsoie, fa vs one. Thrte’s a lovelyeoiin le lavg another. — T ere will be Iw -tdo ng betwix them to-night, fays a thiid.Artct thus the ra b'e run alcnc, till thechurch doors a>e ftmt, and keep themfrom cod ing any farther. 'I'hc k-ot isluvk’ov fix-d which can never he undonebut by the death of one of .hem. Andtherefore, *f er he ceremony of ** I Johntxke thee Jo*n, to be my wedded wife;ar d I J &n t*ke thee, Jtthn.” &c. tr ey gof'< m chur,;h 3,rain, an fi 11 receive thejot of tV be ggxrs; tne bridegroom, forUie grandeur oi the Wedding, Trowinga.morg:! rheni, a Jiandful of fmall money,which lets them a feramb ing ; then tak ngC'. tch. they return to the pl^ce from when ethey fee out, attended by the rabble, whichis . mark pf greatnefsB ung cp-tie ••••to the dining-rooro, theguelts or cour.c pi.‘id all faiute tire bride,and, i i rsturn the bridegroom muil f*-luttr «I1 the young women; and t is fm ftIhre b? a great pleafure to him ThisiT.al tornia!uy bri g ovf-r, the bride-g*oom f tp drinks a bureper to the wholesilifiibiy.{ ** )BV this time d nner is upon the tabledand our^j^ii d wi -i as mue ■ torm.iivtyas -* L;->rd Mo or's fea.'h Aft r the fanoafays gract-r they fell to witn u* f rtierceremony } and here comes a new tleaiareto the bridegroom, to ice all the ^*eftaaddrefs their gbifiLs t > the ride, and af¬terwards to him. And it will be a plea-fure extraord.niry to him if he can butk p hi:: feif fober till he goes to bed*Nor is it lefs pie?, ure to hear the difcourfeI at the tame after the second courfe, viheaa jolly red noted toper, * pot coin pan iottof the bride’s fat; er, began,.faying Mar¬riage \va in i-uted in a ftate of innccen-Icy. nay, even in ?;r3iiit.: ; and that with--< t it the; churcn would want pabors,-and the kmgoo n foldiers to defend iK—Nay, for.her, th -t Ciuidren are hi ffi ;gs-from heaven, and therefore barrertncls wasaccounted, he greauit f andai in the worldamong trc J wilh f-onven : Ave. and by: the Id g!»ih vvostSea t-ci, replies a grave-- 0:Cf matron, and I>li ould be forry that myyou^g mittrers htvre (a:, w il for m. ownf ke .s'hcr’s'j’liicaiiu L)e under thyt curfe;for I hope ere tea months, to carry herfim boy to thj font.( II )Dinner being over, the parfon blefiesshera; when the midwife-comes to thebridegroom, fayiug, No^, happy man. fora maidenhead; hut there is a grei»t difcre-tion to be ufed in the gathering of it itusuft be gentiy cropped for fear of ipoil-ing; for, it you go too boiilerously to worfcyou’ll pull it up by the roots; but if youdo it juU by degrees, it is young and ten¬der, and you’ll find it coming.We w:!l now fuppoie tne afternoonworn out by dancing to the great plea-fure of the fp-dlators, and the ni ht be¬gun, the bride is holen away from ihscompany, and put to bed; and after her,the bridegroom, now* reads conigm-ma e the highefl joys of matrimony: butthough the bridegroom now lh;cks eachjaiinute an age till he reaps tlte longed torfruit of all his amorous expiations, heis (till obliged to wait with patience ;.forup comes the fack p<.(Tet, which the wo¬men think will n:i.lce the bridegroomkind and lufly too ; rdr can the bride and'bridegroom get rid ©• this unneceflaryceren ony, umil lome good compsffion-ate l^dy thro co purpofey the flockinginto the pcflst, when ftie pretended taftrjj%If »• .IVJ ^y;:i’.I( 13 )throw it at the bride. This caufed tfcefa k poffet to be taken away ; which, be-in^ done it only remained now to kifs thewo ”en round, an ^ lb depart whilti thebride’s nii» her locked fad the door, andtook away the key, that none might in¬terrupt them. They uow., being both leftalone, the bridegroom, withoat aay doubt,improves his time; atsd therefore let thisluffice, tbettk<«* no# revel in thofe joysthey not long before durlt hardly think of;and for the bridegroom, as Carew cx-prelfes it.Now his enfranchis’d hand on ev rv fidetM«u o’er htr naked polilh’d ;vory glide;No curtsin now. o’er the traa parent lawn,1 Is there before her virgin t re* hi re drawn.Now void of all offence, he mav beholdHer boibm bare, and her upbraided gold.B.it though he had revelled in blifs altin'uht. yfet his fair fpoufe’s mother cameuto t fair couple in the morning, torinq.Mre how her deareft daughter did.—Yet the fon was fir ft faluted. with, Son,ovr is it? So well, laid he, that I havei*een this night in Paradile. With that Ih e{ *4 )pnt into< his h^nd * p ate of comfortsbiiei*t > "ie ug coriJ'dHfig ot erin2[oes forhis . oufe ^nd he to resale theml-. Ives ,w och done. 1'he fi !s them a ho-wi of muf-ead oe, and dro :s therein a neiw /aid egg,w'hrc i the bridegroo n prefenting to rhepartner of his p eafure, the mother fidsai -rher for himfeif. whidh, w/thout tn-tr.* tirg, he hen drank q .ickly'off — BitM h r Midnight, - •,ho U nged to knoarhotv he bridegroom perfo /tied, and |'minv stUuks he ^ad made oa the virgin |.f0-, e »mes to the bride, tnd. v. i'h a whif- /■per in her ear. t< onid hav- her confefs ; Itbut the lady replied onlv with a bluih,which aiede the bridegroom guef's *. n*t ihe ipmea- t and therefore told f er it was Ian unfa r queftion as yet; vou oughr4 Ilaid he to tarry till are rife; and (mce we ||are recrui ed thus pr*y v ait till the phv-fi; his done w. rking and then take thet;w account together. Upon this, 'hell^mother and midwife retired. Bit to di-/%t\\ whas thev had ea en and dr . k. vy |taking a nap, b it tt*.e drums and tru pets I1bs-g.n to f rncf, and, in a mbmen\flreet;was full i f bene i'dliuns tb the brideiafid bridegroctirp and this mail be anothgcfl( T5 )s ^teaTure, how the bridegrrcini, urwil-ii p; to pav the irohev for not! ing getst up *nd d nces Jo t::t tin die; rid t! i: n'-uilbe a gre -it pieafure. for aii the it tilts are- p eafed a- once.No* he next day is fpent in • einj^: treated by the brtdemen at a taveT ; ardi there can oe now room for nothing butl pleafnre.The pie a fur es of the wedding being'Over—how ! over did I fny ? I fet,g youri .pardon ; they are fo far from be ng over,: that they continue while they live toge--riither And therefore I fn aid fay, b; irtgiithus begun, they are attendee by anotherHpleufure and that is h(iufr-kee|..ing; rs W': t-me begins t1 jog trie bridegroom by tf.e.elb ov and tell him he ought to mi djhis b finds; far btrtTs will f on ’ growremptv unlei's filled Jigiin.—And what isIf is pieafure n w, li t the bufineis of.houfekteping, and to get all things for■who is obh'gti to borrow every thing fhs3 wants*( 1* )Nor, if flic would be finer than thereft of he* ncip'hbour’s, it is the hufband’areputation' and rhat mult give him plea-fure Good houfewiferv and right ma-n«gemt-a; make things lad lon^. It is in¬deed the honour of men to fee cleanli-nefs. nor do they love holes in theirflocking heels, nor that their ruffles fliouldh«ng like bell ropes: and yet they fcorafco fet the. halt Hitch in them themfelves.So, therefore, to ha/e a wJe thet willtake «are to have every thing done forhim, mull needs be a pleifot® to him:and «*n*; if lor.ieti’ tes ih waurs a Vene¬tian carpet, or a little china ware, furelyno ?»in in his wits would quarrel with hiswife a boat fuch tnfle, wh n all fhouldredound to his reputation: nay fuppofeHie has a mind for a fii er coffee or tea¬pot, or a pair of fiiver fconoes, where isthe harm of it? Certainly, the moreplate a mao has the richer he is: thisought tner* for*: to be a pleai'ure tohim. And l can -iffire vou, of mv ownknowledge, there are feveral hufbmdswould be glad their wives had fuch tm igs.Befides fiich things fet ouf a room, andmake the kitchen, if the houfs oe Keptc'etn, hive a reputation among the neigh¬bours. There’s fuch a one-’;, noufe lookslike a paradre foys o:.e ——it would doOne’s h:»rt good to look at n, cries ano¬ther And all will grant it. is the moftprovident way for a man to fpecd but lit-tie abroad and keep the betttr hoofe athome; and if fo. he may w^ll permit hiswife to entertain her friends how and tuen,without prejudice to her lu fband’s ellate ;for a glafs of wine tafles as well at homeas abroad; and a capon may be cneaperdreffed in his own kitchen then at •* Frenchordinary. And^ as for women wearingil fine clothes, woioh forae obj- d\ agaanll, Ilay it is tor the honour 01 the nation ingeneral, and mull be a particular pleafureto the hi {band to fee his wife ss fine as herneighbours.But there is another pleafure attendsupon matrimony, a>d that is, if he hasmarried a wife who has got a relation iathe country, and it is ten to one but fliehas, for women do no: rile out of theearth like pompions, but their pedigreehad fon twhere or other a beginning. Ifthe won an ha not, ptih-pr the man has.And whether heir relations be by theBut perhaps, after all this ^*6at-pies- 1th.,rp is a f^d cornpUi it that the(}'0l'niv is wi'h civt-'d,. T its much redounds to-the young man’sdi gfice, and is a very great damp to thepastures ot mttriuioov, — But, ^hoic! not ‘fo f.tft. my fn nd-; pray let ail things bewell co'fi»errd, and the hare'-s foot let jagainil t t goole’s ib ets; for, if there ber.o Cf.ildreti fuere is tne le!s charge. Andyet the plealures of the bed are liili thefame. 1 liey ive in the conHart ufe ofthe means spd who can tell what maycome ol ?t ? liume was not built in oneday I doubt not but it is m allav tomanv one’s nodjirnai tL-afures. to thinkupon tne charge h? :s b iug-ing upon him-lelf, bv futisf' mg a little amo-ous itch ;bit when ne had done ir. and done it, -nddoae it again, ana finds there is no d*n-rger. fhen he falls to it without fear or wh s:1j ft les there is a other conveniency, theymay live more plentifully, nere are noporti ns to provide for children; whenOthers are forced to fed n?rt and fome-time* ah tneir patrimoy, to provide p©*>teens for thsir-childrea.ifii:-.( i8 )siftnan or the woman, it is po matter; an!til therefore, uhen tht\ hs've once c*. rf; .nia.rvmony, ail the.r rela ions n.iilt .c ac«.! |q >a;nteQ w ith it Arid, in return, 'hey.j imufl lend up a letitr. w-herein they tv lii hiin thtv (ha 1,1 be very g!«d to iee ti erai< both in the country.Up n thr , fhe willinp to fee her friendsI be lure : tr tying in (K r we ui i iuppp.e.; tr;io he with c i d alread ) ar.d {he man isHo itfs arebiticus to let t:is kindred Irefffis nue choice And let us uppole[the young man fhould have a mind to pi yeii>is w ife an airing in the country, r arry,f t ink it is a pica fur e to him to takv ajirisk in the country for a month or- two5jknd then to have the lor.r bells in theisieeple let a jingi fo joy, to umni n teeyhahitarts of the viiiage to dare at titejpride ai d bridepr cm.Ar c w"es- they hays b-en grsndly enter-<.ir ed b' one coi fin to make a tour to[inotbt r, and . thf re to have a 1 the w el-ileniet! renewed again, muff needs be a•m.aiveTlous pltafure to 'hem both, andjjitore tfpeciaiiy to. the In ft) rd, to fee Bisllvife fo c^rtlfcd aid made much of amongids friends.11But all this does not fatisfr the youngwoman. She fancies rbere is ton e pecu¬liar pleaiure when a child is gotten andthe longs to k ow it And what makesher the more eager is (he is upbraidedb<r ner neighbours: ’^hitl favs one pra¬ting goflip are you not quick yet, neigh¬bour-? Mo, nothing like it, nor towarrs it,as I k:ow of. Lack-a-da\ ! cri( s (heagain, I han’t been married thirteen months,and vet this child is a quarter old Aye,fays the young woman, with a figK youhuvie b;flowed your time well : I havebeen married near eight months, andyet there is no (ign o! any thing coming.She had fcarce fpoke, before another gof-lip laid hold of the laft words; How!laid (he, married near eight months andnothing coming! believe me. there’s afault cn one fide or the ether: Do yout link one of my age and complexion canbe in the fault? 1 know myftlf fo well,'that I wi!l leave all the world to judgeof me. Patience a little, cries another ofthe gang, I have known fame women h;»vsnot been with child till they have beenmarried two or three years. What! and( » )fimt youi but I will affure you neighbouryot» tre mifbkcn. Juit in lUc middle ofthis eonf*bulauon. in comes another, andtells ihem ftie had been at Mrs. Breed-well’s ly>ng in. How ! fays another, ismy neighbour Breedwell brought to-hed ?Yes, of a fine lufty boy, replica the other.How long has fhe been marrieoj favs theyi ung woman. About eig t months re¬plies the other. Adds heart'ikm ! cried fhe,about eight months! Why, I have breamarried fo long mvfelf, and do not kno«rI am yet with child.This curious debate held them a longtime, and had not been ended fo foon,had not one who was fomewhat wiferthen the refl come in. and, addreffirgherfelf to the complainant, fhe faid,Miflrefs. this cafe U d fficult, but the beltway to receive fatisfaSion is to go home,and take in tx*£t dimerfion of your hof-band’s inlirument, as to le gth and cocn-paf, and then we may be able to form abetter judgment; but till then we c*nfay nothing pofit ve. Another advifedher to mak mi.ch of him, and nounfhhi' ' p well with yo ks of eigs, oyflerS)cock tones, craw fifb, lobfiers, perrt-( « Vwirdkles, beef m»rrow, fl^irret^, witifoms rauf&idinc, or tent... The youngwoman h ard all this ; but imagined allher c-'ll w uld be thrown i f fhehad not her full meafure ; a id accordirglyproduced it the n xt time of meeting,w ich, *s they fnrveyed filled them w thadmiration which one ot them exprtfTedin this manner; ne ghbour, there is fomeo her caufe whv you a e not got whhchild : if this be the right meafure, ! dor*ear your mfb-nd is a man tve'y inchof him, and iheretore mult needs tellyou that tr-e fault is not in him. 1 knownot how it i-, f*id the young woman,very difconfoUteiy, hut I am fire I hjv«given the exa&rfl and trneft mtafure —B it, that the woman n ignt not be cafldown . Gome, come, fa d one of the goodsutured creatures, who was for forward¬ing the bufmefs do not be call down butofe means, and vou mai yet have chil¬dren enough: for I know a young marriedCouple j ilt in your cafe And, bv thearvice of a worthy and learned phyfician,the wife was got with child ver> fif Cdu-ally. And this was the whole proceis ofthe b jCnefs:The doftor advif d the hi (band te g*! into the coup’ry, aid ilsy with ft s undefor a tonr.ight, and then return honie;but he crcered it lo, that the >*ii day'sjourney snigM be*&n cafy ore; tod "«fcewite had nociwe of his coming « d dreff dhe rid! in a'l tne gaiety iht ctuld dev :e ;> and hsd a gooft luy.per of light digtihon,read', to pat or. the table at his arm’s);exp »fing to his view he< £ e iVory n? cicand Idy tof m bare. A*,d three hoursaf.er h ppe? fhe coucfelled him lo bed,i there to t kr hi: reU awhile. Then he-iig bo'ft aw-ke, he laid ftis hand upcmi the mount of V :m.s, and talk'd t her allthe f ft things which love couid d dt.2t^ •i hir ; and when he, by fuch a.moro'.s dif-::C 'ur;cs, had wrought his Ipirits up to tnei highelt p tch, then to fill on. and feift■ himielf with love’s delighrful dain les Iniiho t, the d ctor’s counfel was ohfervedt a nicefv, and the fucc fs ardwered theiritx e£t tion ; and not ;he»';felve alo, e,buf 'uhers too have found its t Aka,.ious; efT.Now tell me all ye enemies to M;r-iriagt, what pleafure can a mav imagine is; greater than far a mat* thus tc give his( U >wife and himfelf a fecret and mutual fat&rfiction.You will be apt to fay are thefe all thepleafures of matrimony ? 1 anfwer. Nosnot one tenth part of them:—bot my d£?fign is to delight, not to furieit you.P J N I S.