THEComical HistoryOFSIMPLE JOHN,AND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES.Which happened all inTwelve Days afterthe unhappy day oj his marriage.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WILLIAM MACN1E,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.1828.THECOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMPLE JOHN,Simple John was a widow's soh,and a coarse country \*vaver to histrade. He made nothing but such ascanvass for caff-beds, corn and coalsacks, drugget and barn was tbe finestwebs he could lay his fingers to : he wasa great lump cl a lang, lean lad, aboonsax f«et afore he was aughteen yearauld ; and, he said himsel4, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry to behigh, that he did not stay to bring tp :fcis judgement with him, but yet hehoped it would follow him, and hewould meet wi^t, as mony a ane doesAND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES.4]3after they’re married. He had but aesister, and she had as little sonse ashimsel’, she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie, the wiiie weaver j his mither was arattling rattle-scull’’d wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s estate, to the age oftwenty-one years, he told his mitherhe would hae a wife o’ some sort, eitheryoung or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but head and lips, tongue and tail,he shou’d tak them, and weei 1 wat,Blither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpenny-worth o’ me get me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedoughters, and every ane o* them hhdsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzy, had a hundred merks the piece.Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had a hifmph back, ahigh-breast, baker legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth, and goggle ey’d,a perfect iEsop of the female kind, withas many crocked conditions within aswithout, a very lump of loun-like ill-nature, row’d a’ together, as if she had4been nine months in a haggies, a se¬cond ediflon of crook backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that wasborn with teeth to bite a‘ around a-bout him, and yet the wight gaed madto be married.John's mither told him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi‘ his Sunday'scoat on, and a‘ his braws, and a pairof new pillonian breeks o' his mither'smaking. In he comes and toll'dhis errand before he would sit down,says good day to you, goodman, whatare you a' doing here ? 1 am wantinga wife, an ye're a flesher, and has a gudesorting aside you, my mither says yecan sair me cr ony body like me, whatsay ye till-t, goodman ? How naonydouchters bae ye ? Are they a‘ mar¬ried yet ? I fain wad tak a look o' someo* ihtm gin ye like.A wow, sai l the gcodwife, come inhonest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer sit down and gle's a snuff—A deed goodwife, I hae nae mills butmy mither's, and it's at hame,—^wharewin ye l‘se no ken ye ? I wat, qfcethhe, my name's Jock Sandyman, theyca‘ me Simple John the sack.weaver.I hae nae tocher but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a ketle pat, a brass pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candle-stick, agood cock, a cat, twa errocks new be¬gun to lay j my sister Sara is marriedon Sleeky Willie the wylie weaver, and1 maun hae a hagwife or my mitherdie, for truely she‘s very frail, and onyharl o‘ health she has is about dinner¬time ; what say ye till‘t goodman ?can ye buckle me cr not ?Goodman.) A dear John, ye're in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi' ye ? they're a' there beforeye, which o' them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o' themwill sair me, but my mither says there'stwa n‘ them has fauts. And what istheir fauts ? says the goodwife, Hout,said John, it's no meikle faut, but Idinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shad I dowi‘ them ? said the goodman.John.) A deed, goodman, as ye're aydealing among dead beasts and livingbeasts, i wad put them awa amang i-IBy, let somebody tak tkem up o’ des¬perate d >1, I sud flia the fykes f;aethem, ^ y ?.uger*d you, and sham'dyou b'it; with their bastards, a wheendaft j-ides t gets men or they be mar¬ried, and banns or they get bridals,Goodwifa) A wat weel that’s truelad.Girzy.) A veel, John, then, will yetak me; 1 hie nae bastards; how • iilyou and 1 do?John.) I a t n* gin ye be able to geta bastard )\:t e may hae some waurfaut; but ye maun be my penny-wortb,for ye’re unco little, and IV* o’er muc-kle, and gin ye and 1 war ance cardedthrough ither, we mav get bonny weanso’ a middlen raak. I hae nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shouthers, Ithe hands and legs may do, tho’ yourmouth be a wee to the tae side, it will ;lie weel to the r ck, and 1 hae a han-tie o’ tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down ; a perfect beauty,vri’ cats yellow eenr black brogs, and7red.lip'. ' .'our very nose is purplecolour ; e h ie rae fauts at a‘: Now,whan A v be rnarriod.Girzy ) Hj. im, John lad, w« iaunthink on thaf ye .John Wh .? the yeltow, lass, shouldna ye be ready whan I?m ready, andevery body says that the woman's ayready.Goodman.) Ye‘il bae to comeback,and bring somebody wi4 you, and we‘ligree about it, and set the day whanye‘11 be married.John.) A weel, goodinan, I'll tell mymithtr o‘t, and come back on Monor-day, and wehl hae a chappin o* ale, androasted cheese on the chance o‘t, butI maun hae a word ©‘ the bride out by,to convoy me, and a quiet speak to her-sel, about 1 c»Good'isctfe.') A wow na, John, thedaft leuns will laugh at you, and she'llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe'll speak to you through the gavelwindow'.Out goes John, and the bride andher twa sisters goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and whathe wouU say Now says John, Girzy,my dear, nty braw pretty woman, anye be in earnest, tell me, for by mysuth Tm no scorning.Girzy.) Indeed, John, I’m very wil.ling to tak ye, but ye needna tell e-very body about it.John.) Then gie me a kiss on that.He shuts his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh 1 could eat you a’, I likeyou sae weel j it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ between us, Tse teil my mithersae bonny as ye are : O gie me anotherkiss yet, and then I’ll go. One of h*rsisters standing by in a dark corner, gets iha'd o’ a cow’s head, which wanted athe skin but about th& mouth, and shutsit out towards his mouth, which hekiss’d in the dark. O cries he, butyour mouth be cauld since I kiss'd ye Ilast, and I think ye hae a beard, 1 saw jnae that before, or is’t wi’ spinning towthat maks your mouth sae rough at een ?Hame he comes, and tells his roitherthe speed and properties of the marriage.'—gA* things was got icaiy, and next weekSleeky Willie the weaver and him cameto gree the marriage, and stay a* nightwi’ the bride, and teach John goodmanners, for whan John was hungryhe minded his meat mair than his goodbeheayiour, and he never was fu* tillthe dish was tume. Wiihe the weaver1 was to tramp on his fit, when he>) thought he had suppet aneugh ; so all.i things being agreed upon short andj easy terms, snd the wedding hay set,ii they were to be three times cry’d onSunday, and xuitely married on Mon-^onday, neither piper nor fiddler to bei1 employe’, but sweith awa hame frae: the Minister, and into tbe bed amangif the blankets ; Ha, ha, cried John,that’s the best o’tNow every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,large fat haggles, the very smell waddone a hungry body gude, but Johnad only got twa or three soups, untilne tf the butcher’s meikle dogs tram-ed on John’s fit, which he took to behe weaver, and then he veould eat naemair. After supper they went to bed10John ami the weaverl ay together, andthen he abused the weaver fortramping sae soon which he denied ;but O, said John, there's a hantle o'tleft, and 1 saw whare it was set, they'rea’ sleeping, 1’il go rise an tak a soup o’tyet. Ay, eeu do sae, said sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Awaythen John goes to the amry, and laysto the baggies, till his aim baggies couldbaud nae mair; then brought some toSleeky Willie ; but, instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and the twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly, jWid ye tak it, will ye tak it; but tlrey 1making no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Vlillie’s |mouth, but instead of doing so, he putsa great spoonful close into one of their jbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears a’ that jpast, comes out the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dish <where it was, leaves the amry door o.pen, to let the cats get the blame ofsupping the baggies, and awa they go tobed ; but poor Jonn could get nae sleeplor drouth ; up he gets in search of the11*water-cann, and finding an emptyl pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therewas ahy water in it, but finding nane,he closed his hand when it was within,the pitcher, and then could not get itoutgoes to the bed and tells SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and goout to a knccking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make anoise in the house. So out he goes*and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggles laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the* nastiness (as she took it tobe) off the tail of her sark, and shebeing in a louting posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes o’erher hurdies with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright, round a turf-stack, andinto the house before him. John camein trembling to the bed again, wi’ thefright praying to preserve him, for sica knocking.stane he never yet saw, forit ran clean awa when he broke thepig upou’t.Now John was furnished in a houseby his fither-in law; the bed, the loom,heddles, treadles, thrumbs, reed, andpirn-wheel, was a‘ brought and set upbefore the marriage, which was kepta profound secret ; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, how |they were to work, and keep house :John was to keep the house in meat,meal,fire, and water ; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes}the fabher-iu-law to pay the rent for '•three years ; they were to L*ae nae ser¬vants, until they had children ; andtheir first child was to be a John afterits ain Daddy, pet it w'ha will, if aboy ; end if a girl, Girzy, after its ainminny, as ye said wha wrought bestISMISFORTUNE I.Then she ordered John to rise aadbegin his wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJahn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand,, then a' theboys and girls being gathered in a crowdto see him, gave a loud huzza, and clap¬ping their hands at him, poor Jdhn,not knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tilher, tillbaith went to pieces, and that was acheeiful huzza to baith young and auldthat was looking at him : Girzel thewife draws him into his house, and tohim she flies with the wicked wife’sweapon, her Tongue and Fangs, andmade his ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye was dofr, but i’ll ding thedaffing out o’ ye, i’ll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi’ you.” PoorJohn sat crying and clawing his lugs“ ila, ha,” said he, “ its nae bairn'splay to be married, I find that al¬ready.” His mither in-law came inand made up peace, went to a cooper,and got them a big wooden stoup tocarry in their water.#MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was sent to theFlesh-market an errand to his Father-in-taw, who gave him a piece of fleshto carry home, and ns he was comingout of the market, he saw six or sevenof the flesher dogs fail on and worry ata poor country colly'dog ; “Justice, Jus¬tice,” cries John to the dogs, “ ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly raskals, thatfa's a' on ae poor beast, iieth ye sudea' be put in the toubuoth, and ta’en tothe bailies, and hanged for the like o'that; it's perfect murder,” and in heruns amongst the dogs, “ And be bang’dto yon a’ the gither, What is the quar¬rel ? What is th<2 quarrel ? John flingsdown the flesh he had carrying, andgrips the colly, who took John for an15enemy too, and bites his hand till theblood followed, the whole of the tykescomes a, on poor John, 'till down hegoes in the dirt amongst their feet, andone of the dogs runs off with the flesh,so John went hame both dirty andbloody and without his flesh, told Gkzybow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and longue, madeJob* to curse t'ae very minister thatmarried them, and wished be mightne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent to thewell with the great stoup to bring inwater for breakfast; ami as he was pull¬ing the stoup out of the well, in he turn-bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he could na.win out ^some peo¬ple passing by Chance, heard the slunge, fcried, and run to his relief, haul’d himout half dead, and helped him into thehouse ; and after getting a dry sark, hewas comfoited with th old plaister,her Tongue and hard Tangs.rNext day, she says, John, I mustpo to the maiket myself, for it' you goyou’ll tight \vi’ the dogs, and let themrun awa wi’ ony thing you buy : seethat ye put on the pat, hae’t boilingagain I come hame. John promisedweel, but performs very badly. She’sno sooner gone, than he puts on thenew pat, without any water in it, anda goou tire to make it boil, and away ^he goes to the unhappy well, fills hisstoup, and sets it down to look at aparcel of boys playing at cat and dog,they persua.Jed John to take a game wi*them, on he plays, till ane o’ the boyscries, Hey John, yonders your Girzycoming. John runs into the hous-ewi’ the water, and the pat being redhot qn the tire, he tumes in the cauldwater into it, which made the pat fleeall in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John rurrs tor it, and sheruns alter him, crying, catch the thief,some persons stopped him 5 she comesW*'17up, and then she laboured him all theway hame, and he crying, “ O Sirs,ye see what it is to be married !'’The mither-in-law had to make uppeace again, and he promised goodbeheaviour in time to come.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent himto the waver to wash some cows’s pud¬dings, and turn them on a spindle,shewing him how he was to do or hewent away. John goes to the watervery willingly, and as he turned andwashed them, he laid them down be¬hind h im, where one cT his Father in-laws’s big dogs stood, and ate them upas fast as he laid them down, till all wasgone but the very last aue, which hecarried hame in his hand, crying like achild, and underwent a severe tost of theold plaister before any mercy was shewn.MISFORTUNE VI.His Father-in-law, next day, sent him./awaty to bring home a fht calf he h?*dboug’t in the country, and tied up thesaooeyjn-a napkin, which he Carried iahis baud for fear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty as it was all in half¬pence, and as he vps going aiongst abridge, ne meets a man running after ahorse, who' cries to John to stop thehorse; John meets hi n on the top ofthe bridge, and when he would not bestopped for him, he knocks the horse,on the face with the napkin and themoney, So the t-apktn rave, and most ofthe halfpence flew over the bridge in thewater, which made poor John go homecrying very bitterly for his loss, anddread of the old piaister, which ha gotvery sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next mowing, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind any of it in the vtiuer, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismoneyf he kills one of them, and rips19her up. ! i'o ad none of it in her guts *or gals slys he, they have beenbut loui.; : r u, i’li go do as they did ;strips off ir> vlobies and leaves fhem onthe bridge, s in a ducking, in whichtime, a rag . u; ca *e past, and took a-way sll his clothes. So he went homenaked to £et a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.the next TOorom , she sent him t© afartn-house for a pig-ful of butter-milk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer- bull and another bullwas fighting ; t' e f > mer’sbull being liketo lose, John juns in behind Uim, andgets his head to the mil’s tail, on pur¬pose to help hi;?, r. push against theother ; but the poor huh thought Johnwas some other b. •: attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, ami ute other bull camefull drive upon Jo pushed him downbroke the pig, and • m the milk SoJohn went home to : his auld plaister,which began to be ai. usual diet to him,and so he regarded it the less.20MISFORTUNE IXHis mother-rn-Iaw, with several auldwitty wives, held a private council onJohn's conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a‘ his misfortunes, ca‘d him a war-lock to his face, and said, he had putsuch a black bargain in his hand, thathe w^as ruined forever : insisted eitherto tin marry them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa, forshe has a lump of mischief on her backand atoisher on her breasi, and the resto‘ her body is a clean deil. The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven : “ Ye're a baistliar, says John, for I was married inyour ain khchen, and a‘ the blackguardsin the town was there, and it had abeen a heaven they wanna win in, yet tellme that matrimony was sic a happystate, but had ye gotten as raony vve^I21weel pay’d skins as I hae gotten, ye wada kend what it is; ill chance on you sir;and out he goes cu-sing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking the Min¬ister’s windows for which he wascatcht and put twa hours in the stocks,and at last his lump of corruption cameand rubbed his lugs, threw his nose,got him out, and drove him home be-Ifore her, took a resolution never toset him about any business in timecoming but keep him on his loom.Now she gave him no sleep a* thatv„:n4ght for scolding. John got up inIthe morning lang or day, and left his-/ITormentor in bed, fell asleep upon hjsdoom with the candle in his hand, andjso set the web, heddles, reed, aad trea-idle eords in a fire. Byebancehis oldiWdper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone. Up sheidgot, and with her cries alarmed the. neighbourhood who came to her relief jMISFORTUNE X.22but poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XI.After the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopfe, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next dajr,having nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen’s nest, which had ta’ensome by-place to lay ner eggs in : so aspoor Jonn was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the walls, the kiil-nbs brokeand down he goes with a vengeance jinto the logic, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner; np he couldnot win, but had to creep out at thelogie below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose a’ running o’ blood.-In this condition she pitied and la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed ; then sat jdown very kindly, saying, “ My dear, land my lamb, do ye think there fs ony Ho’ your banes broken; and what part Jfo’ you is sairest ?• And what vfiil I get. k23*rto do good ? “ Oh !” said he, *4 GirzI’m a’ brizzled atween the feet.“ “ Areye indeed ?“ quoth she, “ then I wishye had broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anither, useless ae way, anduseless mae ways, upo’ my word, “ ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like.“MISFORTUNE XU.filow, as poor John was turner! outoJ doors next morning, to go awa* hirp-ling on a staff; one came and told himhis mother had died last night. Ohhoch ! said John, and is my mither cleandead! O an she wad but. look downthrough the lift, and see how I’m guid-this morning, I'm sure she wad sendI death for me too. I’m out o’ a mitherland out o’ a wife, out o’ mv health and(strength, and a’ my worklooms. His(Mother-in-law came and pleaded for(him: Haud your tongue, Mither,isaid Ginsy, if ye kend what ail’d him'ye wadna speak about him, he's useless,n# worth the keeping in a house, butto oa’ him to die like an auld beast at acyktgide. Hout tout, co’ th3 auldwife, we’ll rnak o’ him and he’ll mendagain. So John got peace made up af¬ter a’, and he was easier mended than ;the burnt web ; got all his tradies andwarklooms set in order, the wife’stongue excepted, which was made of «wormwood, and the rest of her bodyof sea w*ttr, which is always in acontinual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Jury,if it be not easier to deal wi’ foolsthan headstrong fashious fouks j ownshe has but an empty skull, but hiswicked wife wants wit to pour judge¬ment into it, never tells him o’ dangertill it comes upon him, for. his moth¬er said he was a biddable bairn, if onybody had been to learn him wit.FINIS.