THE HISTORY[.No. 11.OFTHE mCANWITHTHE IRON MASK;TOGETHER WITHTHE LIFEOF THEBLOODY ROBESPIERRE.EDINBURGH .PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.SOIUH BTiiOAEK ?.IKF,£Xt BKIMXED V M1B r • 3Hi; H B ! V BBAD054EEplMB IBGH: •bfosm mwmmm’Ob 1.1) KX H E r I h E!DOEJ.HEB liH1.11 IFOH mBK3*nmLHE H18XOTJA[ji0- irthef MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.This remarkable person existed as a stateprisoner in France during the latter part ofI the 17th century. The circumstances of'this person form a historical senigma, whichhas occasioned much inquiry and many con¬jectures. The authenticated particulars con¬cerning the Iron Mask are as follows :—Afew months after the death of Cardinal Maza-rin, there arrived at the isle of Sainte Mar¬guerite, in the sea of Provence, a young pri¬soner, whose appearance was peculiarly attract¬ing : his person was above the middle size, andelegantly formed; his mien and deportmentwere noble, and his manners graceful; andeven the sound of his voice had in it somethinguncommonly interesting. On the road, he con¬stantly wore a mask made with iron springs,to enable him to eat without taking it off. Itwas at first believed that this mask was madetentirely of iron ; whence he acquired the titleof the Man with the Iron Mask. His attendantsbad received orders to dispatch him if heattempted to take off his mask, or discoverhimself. He had been first confined at Pignerol,under the care of the governor M. de St Mars;find upon being sent thence to St Marguerite,fie was accompanied thither by the same per-tjson, who continued to have the charge of him.(He was always treated with the utmost respect:he was served constantly in plate; and theITHE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.governor himself placed his dishes on the table:retiring immediately after, and locking the dooibehind him. Mq tu-to'-yoit (theed and thoud^the governor ; who, on the other hand, behaved to him in the most respectful manner, ancnever wore his hat before him, nor ever sadown in his presence without being desire:The Marquis of Louvoisis, who went to seihim at St Marguerite, spoke to him standinand with that kind of attention which denoteihigh respect. During his residence here, hattempted twice, in an indirect manner, t,make himself known. One day, he wrote somathing with his knife on a plate, and threw iout of his window towards a boat that wa.drawn on shore near the foot of the tower, ifisherman picked it up, and carried it to thgovernor. M. de St Mars was alarmed at thsight; and asked the man, with great anxietywhether he could read, and whether any onelse had seen the plate ? The man answers,that he could not read ; that he had but jus|found the plate; and that no one else had see:it. He was, however, confined till the govei|nor was well assured of the truth of his assettions. Another attempt to discover himselproved equally unsuccessful. A young man, whijlived in the isle, one day perceived somethinfloating under the prisoner’s window ; and opicking it up, he discovered it to be a very fiashirt written all over. He carried it irriflildiately to the governor ; who, having looked ajsome parts of the writing, asked the lad, wisome appearance of anxiety, if he had not hthe curiosity to read it ? He protested repeatedly that he had not; but two days afterwardhe was found dead in his bed. The Ma&k dTHE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.O\\Fer, or Man with the Iron Mask, remained in:this isle till 1698, when M. de St Mars, being(promoted to the government of the Bastile,conducted his prisoner to that fortress. In hisway thither, he stopt with him at his estate■ near Palteau. The Mask arrived there in alitter, surrounded by a numerous guard onhorseback. M. de St Mars eat at the sameliable with him all the time they resided at Pal-!teau ; but the latter was always placed withhis back towards the windows ; and the pea¬sants, who came to pay their compliments toI their master, and whom curiosity kept con¬stantly on the watch, observed that M. de Sti Mars always sat opposite to him, with two pis-■ tols by the side of his plate. They were waitedon by one servant only, who brought in andi-t carried out the dishes, always carefully shut-Iting the door both in going out and returning.The prisoner was always masked, even whenhe passed through the court ; but the peoplesaw his teeth and lips, and observed that hisn hair was grey. The governor slept in the same: room with him, in a second bed that was placedn in it on that occasion. In the course of their> journey, the Mask was one day heard to askt his keeper whether the king had any designi< on his life ? “ No, prince,” he replied ; “ pro-i vided that you quietly allow yourself to be con¬ducted, your life is perfectly secure.” Thei stranger was accommodated as well as it waspossible to be in the Bastile. An apartment\ had been prepared for him by order of thei governor before his arrival, fitted up in the mostconvenient style ; and everything he expresseda desire for was instantly procured him. Histable was the best that could be provided ; andG THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.lie was supplied with as rich clothes as he de¬sired ; but his chief taste in this last particu¬lar was for lace, and for linen remarkably fine.He whs allowed the use of such books as hedesired, and he spent much of his time in read¬ing He also amused himself with playing up¬on the guitar. He had the liberty of going tomass ; but was then strictly forbid to speak oruncover his face : orders were even given tothe soldiers to fire upon him if he attempt¬ed to do either ; and their pieces were alwayspointed towards him as he passed through thecourt. When he had occasion to see a sur¬geon or a physician, he was obliged, under painof death, constantly to wear his mask. Anold physician of the Bastile, who had often at¬tended him when he was indisposed, said, thathe never saw his face, though he had frequentlyexamined his tongue and different parts of hisbody ; and that he never complained of hisconfinement, nor let fall any hint by which itmight be guessed who he was. He often passedthe night in walking up and down his room.This unfortunate prince died on the 19th No¬vember 1703, after a short illness; and was in¬terred next day in the burying-place of theparish of St Paul. The expense of his funeralamounted only to 40 Jivres. The name givenhim was Marchiali: and even his age, as wellas his real name, it seemed of importance toconceal; for, in the register made of his fune¬ral, it was mentioned that he was about 40years old ; though he had told his apothecary,some time before his death, that he thoughthe must be GO. Immediately after his death,his apparel, linen, clothes, mattresses, and, inshort, every thing that had been used by him, UTHE MAN WITH THE IKON MASK. 7were burnt; the walls of his room were scraped;the floor taken up, evidently from the appre¬hension that he might have found means ofwriting any thing that would have discovered, who he was. Nay, such was the fear of hishaving left a letter, or any mark which mightlead to a discovery, that his plate was melteddown ; the glass was taken out of the window; of his room and pounded to dust; the window-; frame and doors burnt; and the ceiling of theroom, and the plaster of the inside of the chim-!ney, taken down. Several persons have af¬firmed that the body was buried without jihead ; and M. de St Foix informs us in his1(1 Essais Historiques, that “ a gentleman, having||J bribed the sexton, had the body taken up inll the night, and found a stone instead of thojil head.” The natural inference from these ex-i:| traordinary accounts, is, that the Iron Mask!was not only a person of high birth, but musthave been of great consequence ; and that hisbeing concealed was of the utmost importanceI to the king and ministry. Among the various; conjectures that have been formed concerning1 the real name and condition of this remarkablepersonage, none appear to have any probabi-1 lity except the following That he was a sonf of Anne of Austria, queen to Louis XIII.,i! and, consequently, that he was a brother ofI Louis XIV.; but whether a bastard brother,I a brother-german, or a half-brother, is aquestion that has given rise to three seve¬ral opinions, viz., 1. That the queen provedwith child at a time when it was evident itcould not have been by her husband, who, forsome months before, had never been with herin private. The supposed father of this child8 THE MAN WITH THE IRON .MASK.is said to have been the Duke of Buckingham,who came to France, in May 1625, to conductthe Princess Henrietta, wife of Charles I., tcEngland. The private letters and memoirs oithose times speak very suspiciously of the queenand Buckingham : his behaviour at Amiens,whither the queen and queen-mother accom¬panied the princess in her way to Boulogne.occasioned much whispering; and it appearsthat the king, on this occasion, was extremelyoffended at her, and that it required all the influenceand address of the queen-mother to effecta reconciliation. It is said that this child wasprivately brought up in the country ; that whenMazarin became a favourite, he was intrusteiwith the care of him; and that Louis XIV..having discovered the secret on the death of thecardinal, thought it necessary to confine him inthe manner above related. 2. The second, andthe most probable opinion, is, that he was thetwin-brother of Louis XIV., born some hoursafter him. This first appeared in a shortanonymous work published without date, orname of place, or printer. It is therein said,—“Louis XIV. was born at St Germains en Layeon the 5th September 1638, about noon ; andlthe illustrious prisoner, known by the appella¬tion of the Iron Mask, was born the same day,while Louis XIII. was at supper. The kingand the cardinal, fearing that the pretensions:of a twin-brother might one day be employedto renew those civil wars with which Francehad been so often afflicted, cautiously con¬cealed his birth, and sent him away to bebrought up privately.” This opinion was con¬firmed in a work called Memoires de MarechalDue de Richlieu, written by the Abbe Soulavie;THE MAS WITH THK IRON MASK. 9£" i which it is asserted that “ the birth of therisoner happened in the evening of the 5bhi September 1638, in presence of the chancellor,ijthe bishop of Meaux, the author of the MS., amidwife named Peronete, and a sieur Honorat.IThis circumstance greatly disturbed the king’smind : he observed, that the Salique law hadmade no provision for such a case. By theadvice of Cardinal Riehlfeu, it was thereforeiresolved to conceal his birth, but to preservehis life, in case, by the death of his brother, itshould be necessary to avow him. A declara¬tion was drawn up, and signed and sworn toby all present, in which every circumstance•was mentioned, and several marks on his bodyI! described. This document, being sealed by theilchancellor with the royal seal, was delivered tolithe king; and all took an oath never to speak]on the subject, not even in private and amongIthemselves. The child was delivered to theucare of Madame Peronete, to be under thei direction of Cardinal Richlieu, at whose deathlithe charge devolved to Cardinal Mazarin.I Mazarin appointed the author of the MS. hisitgoA'ernor, and intrusted to him the care of hisIreducation. But as the prisoner was extremelyt attached to Madame Peronete, and she equallyiiso to him, she remained with him till her death.IHis governor carried him to his house in Bur-I gundy, where he paid the greatest attention tohis education. As the prisoner grew up, hebecame impatient to discover his birth, andi often importuned his governor on that subject.His curiosity had been roused by observingi that messengers from the court frequently ar-i rived at the house ; and a box, containing let-> ters from the queen and the cardinal, having110 THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.one day been inadvertently left out, he openedit, and saw enough to guess at the secret. >From that time he became thoughtful and imelancholy, ‘ which (says the author) I couldnot then account for. He shortly after askedme to get him a portrait of the late and pre- 1sent king; but I put him off by saying that I 1;could not procure any that were good. He upthen desired me to let him go to Dijon ; whichI have known since was with an intention of sseeing a portrait of the king there, and ofgoing secretly to St John de Lus, where thecourt then was on occasion of the marriage \with the Infanta. He was beautiful.; and 1?love helped him to accomplish his wishes. He , jhad captivated the affections of a young house- jkeeper, who procured him a portrait of theking. It might have served for either of thebrothers ; and the discovery put him into soviolent a passion, that he immediately came tome with the portrait in his hand, saying, Voilamon frere, et voila qui je suis, shewing me, at thesame time, a letter of the Cardinal de Mazarin,that he had taken out of the box.’ Upon thisdiscovery, his governor immediately sent anexpress to court to communicate what had hap¬pened, and to desire new instructions ; the con¬sequence of which was, that the governor andthe young prince under his care were arrestedand confined.” The author of this memoirconcludes,—“ I have suffered with him in ourcommon prison : I am now summoned to ap¬pear before my Judge on high; and for thepeace of my soul I cannot but make this de¬claration, which may point out to him themeans of freeing himself from his present igno¬minious situation, in case the king, his brother,THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK.THE MAN WITH THE IRON MASK. 111 should die without children. Can an extorted. oath compel me to observe secrecy on a thingiiso incredible, but which ought to be left on re-:i|cord to posterity?” 3. The third opinion is,Ithat he was a son of the queen by CardinaljMazarin, born about a year after the death of> her husband, Louis XIII.; that he was brought; up secretly; and that, soon after the death ofthe cardinal on the 9th March 1661, he was: sent to Pignerol. To this account, FatherfiGriffet justly objects, “that it was needless toijinask a face that was unknown ; and, therefore,that this opinion does not merit discussion.”r Indeed, it seems totally unaccountable that soi much care should have been taken to conceala child of the queen by the cardinal, who,whether they were privately married or not,:>lcould never have had the most distant claiminto the crown of France. The conjectures ad-ijvanced by other authors, that he was the Duketiof Monmouth, the Count of Yermandois, orI the Duke of Beaufort, &c., are still more im-jj probable.THE LIFEOFTHE BL00D7 ROBESPIERRE.The very name of Robespierre excites a varietyof disagreeable sensations,—wonder, rage, hor¬ror, and revenge, occupy the bosom by turns. |Of his countrymen, some claim a murdered ]parent, others their mangled sons and daugh¬ters ; the husband his bleeding wife ; the wifeher decollated husband. France, converted intoa charnel-house under his administration, be¬held more than an hundred thousand of herchildren proscribed, starved, expatriated, as¬sassinated, and cut off, either with or withoutthe forms of law ! The patriot and the perfi¬dious citizen,.4he republican and the royalist,the anarchist and the lover of order,—allequally experienced his hatred, and perishedby his deadly enmity. Never did Liberty suffermore tl^an by his hypocritical attachment;never did despotism receive so much consola¬tion as arose from his cruelties. Tyrannybrandished her whips, and shook her chains,from Moscow to Algiers; and boasted, with aperfidious triumph, her milder empire !Maximilian Robespierre was born, in 1759,within the walls of the city of Arras, thecapital of the ci-devant province of Artois. Theroyalists, as if fiction had been necessary torender his memory more detestable, pretendLIFE OP ROBESPIERRE.13Ithat he was the nephew of that Damiens wholassassinated Louis XV. It is but justice, onIthe contrary, to state, that his family was bothlancient and respectable; for his progenitorshad occupied some of the higher departmentslof the magistracy, and appertained to that classformerly termed, by way of eminence, la noblessede la robe. His father was an advocate of greatknowledge and purity; but, as economy wasnot among his virtues, his two sons and adaughter inherited nothing from him but hispoverty. His unsullied reputation, however,proved serviceable to his family ; for a relationundertook the maintenance of the female, andilthe two boys had the good fortune to be protect-led, or rather adopted, by the Bishop of Arras,i Maximilian, the elder brother, was, accord¬ingly, educated under the immediate inspectionllof this prelate, who, doubtless, instilled excel-nlent principles into his mind ; but malice, ai¬rways active and always uncharitable, has tracedi to this very source that consummate hypocrisyI which distinguished his pupil through life, and(which, it is pretended, he could have only ac-Ijquired under the tuition of a priest!.il At a proper age, young Robespierre wasssent to the college of Louis le Grand, a famousseminary, formerly under the direction of thei Jesuits. There he distinguished himself by his^assiduity and talents, and bore away the annualprizes from all competitors of his own class.| This—and it must be allowed to have been ap! wery honourable one—was the only distinguishling characteristic of his youth ; for it is alloweoi that he did not develope even the germ of those^ apassions which influenced his bosom in his more[[advanced years, and rendered him not only theLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.14scourge of his country, but of mankind. Pas¬chal, amidst the silence of his prison, meditatedon Euclid ; and Voltaire chalked the first linesof his Henriade on the walls of his dungeon;but Robespierre did not discover his futuredestiny by anticipation ; and it was the opinionof the professors, that his reputation wouldnever extend beyond the walls of the college in |:which he had been educated.At the age of seventeen, it was determined |that he should be bred to the bar; and hisfriends, judging from his early success, already I.imagined that he would dispute the palm of |eloquence with the first lawyers of France. He 1was, accordingly, committed to the care of a |:M. Ferrieres, nephew to an advocate of the l:same name, who had distinguished himself by I;an excellent Treatise on Jurisprudence.It is asserted, however, that, notwithstand- iting the repeated admonitions of that gentleman,Maximilian could never be prevailed upon topay any degree of attention to his professional .studies. Incapable of application, disgustedwith the slightest difficulties, he is said to haveacquired an antipathy to knowledge, and tohave sworn a deadly enmity both to learningand learned men !It was at first determined that he should |practise before the Parliament of Paris, but nthis scheme was never carried into execution; |for he returned to his native province, and was |admitted an advocate in the Superior Council Iof Artois.■ We do not find that he distinguished himself.here by his eloquence ; and have every reasonto suppose that he would never have risen abovomediocrity, nor been noticed in the crowd ofLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.15I provincial pleaders, had not an uncommon oc-currence of circumstances elevated him to a(situation in which the eyes of all Europe werefixed upon him. He, however, made himselfknown as an author, if not as an advocate ;for he published two treatises about this time,in one of which he explained the principles ofElectricity, and removed the vulgar prejudicesthat prevailed respecting conductors, the erec¬tion of which was opposed by the ignorant,i under the pretence that they were impious, andm better calculated to produce destruction thanjensure safety.The other was on Death considered as a-punishment. In this, all the modern govern-ifments were justly reproached for the sanguin-tary laws still prevalent in their criminal codes,and doubts were hinted as to the right claimed(by society of cutting off the life of an individual.No sooner had the letters of convocation tothe States-General been issued, than Robes-ijpierre determined to become a candidate. HeJiroved successful in his endeavours ; and was,tccordingly, nominated one of the representa-kives of his native province. He is said to have(drawn up the cahiers, or instructions ; by means>f which the electors were accustomed to regu-ate the conduct of their deputies.In the National Assembly, he sat and votedith the cote gauche, or patriotic side ; and wasometimes confounded with the Orleanists, andometimes with the Constitutionels. The for-ner wished to place Philip on the throne of^ouis ; the latter were zealous for the adoptionIf the English constitution. It is no less truedian singular, however, that Robespierre re¬gained in the greatest obscurity during the16LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.first Legislature ; and was considered as a pas¬sionate, hot-headed young man, whose chiefmerit consisted in his being warmly and sin¬cerely attached to the cause of liberty. It washe who first brought the term Aristocrat intocommon use. This occurred on Thursday,Nov. 19, 1790 ; when a deputation from a cor¬poration in the Cambresis having complainedat the bar of some abuses, the deputy for Arrasascended the tribune, and exclaimed, that the |petitioners deserved no favour, being them- |selves f un corps aristocratiqm) an aristocratical |body. The Assembly burst into a fit of laughter |on the mention of this word : it, however, soon |produced far different sensations !It was about this time that he became the I:editor of a journal entitled L'Unton^ ou Journal Hdc la Liberie. The royalists, who accuse him of jjgross ignorance, enumerate, with exultation, I >the geographical, political, and even gramma¬tical blunders daily exhibited in this newspa- .per. It is allowed by every one that it was ,conducted with extreme violence, and displayedbut little taste or genius. Indeed, the exag- :gerating disposition of the editor had brought p,him into some degree of contempt; and it wasat that time customary to remark, with a kindof satirical eulogium—que Mirabeau etoit leflam- H .beau de la Provence, and Robespierre la chandelle Id'Arras!—that Mirabeau was the flambeau of IProvence, and Robespierre the candle of A rras! |This much is certain, that he never was elected Iinto any of the committees, or honoured with (jthe president’s chair in the first Assembly.To the Society of the Jacobins, Robespierreijis indebted for all his celebrity and all hisMpower. He became their chief; and it was theij1,1 FE OF ROBESPIERRE.17members of this body who first propagated theidea, “that the Assembly had ruined France,and Robespierre could alone save it!”It is but candid here to confess that his con¬duct in the Legislative Body was pure and un¬spotted ; that he stedfastly opposed the inte¬rested revision of the constitution, and with¬stood every temptation arising from the cor-i ruption so prodigally administered by the court.Alas ! this very circumstance, in the end, ren¬dered him more dangerous to Liberty, and thesurname of Incorruptible enabled him to sacri¬fice all his real or supposed enemies to hisi vengeance.Robespierre did not refuse to fill subordi¬nate offices, as has been asserted : he, however,did not retain them any considerable time. Hewas first nominated President of the Tribunalof the district of Versailles ; and was, conse¬quently, empowered to decide both in civil andcriminal affairs, as the juries had not been thenI! organized. Having resigned this employment,i he next obtained that of Accusateur-Public tothe Criminal Tribunal of the department ofParis, which he also held but for a short period.His conduct in the exercise of these functionsstands unimpeached: no one instance of crueltyor injustice has been adduced by the bitterestof his enemies ; and had the court but provedfaithful to that constitution, from which it couldnot recede without the foulest perjury, Robes¬pierre would never have been elevated to thedictatorship !' It was during the National Convention that5this man attained the summit of his ambition.In the first Legislature he had joined theatriots, in the second he declared for the re-] 8LIFE OF 110BESPIF.HRE.publicans: in both, hi* party had proved victo¬rious. It was in the third that he himself wasdoomed to triumph, not only over his rivals,but his country.The Commune of Paris, the Jacobin Society,and even the Assembly itself, were filled withhis creatures, and became obedient to his com¬mands. In short, the nation looked up to himas to a saviour.No sooner, however, had he attained thegiddy eminence of power, than his natunseems to have experienced a total change ; amRobespierre, like many others, here affords ;memorable instance of the effects of suddeielevation in debasing the human mind, bjmaking it ferocious. Rendered cruel by habiand suspicion, both royalists and republican:equally experienced his vengeance; a nuinbeof the first were cruelly butchered in prisonand of the latter, Brissot, Vergniaux, GJensonneValaze, &c., &c., fell by the guillotine; whilthe ex-minister Roland, and the celebratesex-secretary Condorcet, were reduced to thmelancholy necessity of putting themselves tdeath. In the Girondists perished nearly athat was great and amiable in France; iMadame Roland fell the first female genius Cher age; in the person of her husband, virtuitself was outraged ; while, in the executionof Condorcet, Lavoisier, and Bailly, sciencreceived a mortal and irrecoverable stab.The proscriptions of Sylla and Marius wetonce more renewed in the most polished countiof modern Europe, mid in an age, too, boastfitfof its studied refinements. Suspected personor, in other words, every one either dreaded <hated by those in power, were arrested : domLItE OF KOBESPIEliRE.19ciliary visits awakened the sleeping victims ofpersecution to misery and destruction ; while; revolutionary tribunals condemned them byscores, unpitied, and even unheard. The lawsiwere no longer maintained ; the idea of a con¬stitution became intolerable; all power wasconcentrated, as among the eastern nations ;he government degenerated into a TurkishDivan : it was the Committee of Public Safetythat regulated every thing, that absolved ortried, that spoiled or enriched, that murderedfor saved ; and this committee was entirely re-igulated by the will of Robespierre, who go¬verned it by the means of his creatures, St J ustland Couthon.He reserved for himself, however, the imme-diate superintendence of the revolutionary tribu-!lta«&,and was accustomed, at night, to mark down:the victims who were to perish before the set¬ting of the morrow’s sun.t,j The execution of four or five a-day did notjjsatiate his vengeance ; the murder of thirty or({forty was demanded, and obtained : the streetstbecame deluged with blood ; canals were ne-Iiessary to convey it to the Seine; and experi-nents were actually made at the Bicetre withpan instrument for cutting off half a score headssat a single motion !t Amidst this accumulation, however, of seem-I ingly irresistible authority, Robespierre was onithe brink of ruin. The whole of the old Gi¬rondist party was indeed subdued and silent;but many members of the Convention still re-jmained attached to it. The party of theMountain, by means of whom Robespierre hadrisen to power, found themselves not only dis¬regarded, but ready at every instant to full aLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE,20sacrifice to that system of terror which theyhad contributed to erect. Even the Jacobinsthemselves, though neither timid nor cautious Iin the shedding of blood, began to murmurwhen they saw that awful privilege confinedwithin a few hands, or rather monopolized byan individual.In this state, things remained for some time ;and it appeared how possible it is for an in- ;dividual to govern a great nation even while |the whole of that nation is hostile to his power. |-One circumstance tended much to accelerate! ithe fall of Robespierre. He had procured a ;decree to be passed, authorizing the Committee iof Public Safety to imprison at its pleasure, and ibring to trial, any member of the Convention.All the individuals of that body found them¬selves placed by this decree in the power of aman whose severe and suspicious temper they .well knew. Still, however, they were so much •surrounded by spies, that it was difficult toform a party or plan of operations; even tha imajority of the Committee of Public Safety were 'iamong the number of the discontented, butthey dared not to withstand their chief. At last, (;on the 25th of July 1795, the Convention be¬gan to exhibit signs of agitation. It was un-1derstood, that, in the course of a few days. \Robespierre would sacrifice a number of themembers to his suspicionsOn the 26th, the sitting of the Conventionwas still more tempestuous. In a long speechRobespierre defended his own conduct againstthose who accused him of aspiring to the dietatorship. . He attacked the party stylecModerates, as wishing to overturn the revolutionary government, and to restore the feebhLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE. 2isystem of the Brissotines. The result of ai long debate was, that Robespierre was appa-i rently victorious, and his speech was orderedto be printed. But, on the 27th, the Conven¬tion appeared ripe for a change: St Just, amember of the Committee of Public Safety, inattempting to defend Robespierre, was repeat¬edly interrupted; and Billaud Varennes enume¬rated the crimes, and proclaimed the tyranny,of Robespierre. The speech was received withbursts of applause. Robespierre in vain at-I tempted to defend himself; he was silencedby shouts of execration from every part ofthe hall. Tallien seconded the former speakerin his accusation. The sitting was declaredpermanent, and a decree of arrest was passed| against Robespierre and his younger brother,[along with St Just, Couthon, and Lebas.These men left the Convention, and found secu¬rity in the hall of the Commune of Paris ; wherethe municipal officers agreed to protect andstand by them. The tocsin was sounded; the« armed force was under their command; an in¬surrection was therefore attempted against thei Convention : but the sections of Paris refusedtheir support. Very few of the troops couldbe collected, and these were not .firm; the latetyranny had become odious. The hall of theCommune was therefore speedily surrendered ;and about three o’clock a m. of the 28th, Robes-: pierre and his associates were made prisoners.They had been outlawed by the Convention,on account of their resistance.On the morning of the 10th Thermidor, (JulyI1 28, 1794,) he was led to execution, amidst theexecrations of the people, with one eye hangingout of the socket, and his lower jaw attachedLIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.22to the upper by means of a handkerchief. Ithad been separated by a musket-ball.Thus perished Maximilian Robespierre, iithe thirty-fifth year of his age. His characterdoes not possess the least resemblance to anyof the illustrious ruffians of antiquity, who havebeen rendered memorable either by their crimesior their exploits. Sylla and Marius, bred upto arms, and inured to warfare, were both braveto excess. Julius, before he crossed the Rubi¬con, and became the tyrant of his country, haddisplayed uncommon personal courage on manyoccasions. Even the luxurious Antony, andthe vile Augustus—the latter of whom it hasbeen too long the fashion to praise—were attimes capable of exhibiting instances of intre¬pidity. Cataline, in the very hour of his death,was terrible ; for his mutilated corpse was sur¬rounded by heaps that had perished by his ownhand. But Robespierre was a base coward,who, on all occasions, was solicitous for his ownsafety, and trembled like a woman at the veryidea of danger. He was bold only in wordsand gestures.On the 10th of August he hid himself asusual, and only came out of his lurking hole toclaim the triumphs of that memorable day.Even on the 1st, 2d, and 3d of September, heis said to have been concealed, until he couldsafely reap all the advantages of the barbarousmurders committed by his partizans.The person of Robespierre was below themiddle size ; the temperament of his body wasnervous and irritable; and he had somethinghideous in his aspect, which was greatly in¬creased by means of a pair of green spectacles.This acquired him the appellation of the Dragon:LIFE OF ROBESPIERRE.23that of the Basilisk would, perhaps, have beenmore appropriate.He affected to be called a Sans-Culotte ; butI his clothes were always chosen with taste; andhis hair was constantly dressed and powdered,with a precision that bordered on foppery. Hewas but an indifferent orator; for his person,voice, and provincial accent, militated againstthe grand characteristics of eloquence. Heas generally deficient, also, in point of compo-ition : his speech, however, on the trial ofouis XYI. is an exception. That on therecognition of the Supreme Being is said tohave been written by a member of one of thefcsi-devant academies.It was the idea of his virtue, and confidence|n his principles, that procured him the un-ounded esteem of a corrupt age. Until int¬oxicated with power, his conduct and moralsmist be allowed to have been unimpeachable.bile a private man, he exhibited virtues thateemed to render him worthy of command; andwas not till he was vested with supremeuthority, that, like the deified Ctesars of an¬ient times, he threw off the character of hu-mnity, and became a demon. He was neverrepublican ; for the idea of a commonwealthapposes a restraint on governors, as well as onxe governed; and, if we are to believe thesertion of an illustrious woman, (Madameoland,) who was basely murdered by him, heas accustomed to sneer on the mention of the“f rm, and ask what it meant.After the fall of Robespierre, the Conventionihibited no small change of appearance. In-ead of that silence which formerly prevailed,'''"Pi24 LIFE OF ROOESPIERIIE.all was bustle and noise; all accused eachother. There was no longer any leader, andthere was no formed party. The formersystem of terror was declared at an end, anda new system of mocleratism succeeded. Thiswas carried to as great a height as the systen"of terror had formerly been ; and all mean! [were taken to render popular the fall of thei: ;late tyrant. The committees were organize!anew, and their members ordered to be fro jquently changed. The correspondence beji;tween the affiliated Jacobin Clubs was prcihibited, and at last the Jacobin Club itsei;was abolished. This last event was accomplished with ease ; and that society, which ha^been the great engine of the Revolution, waitself, without resistance, overturned : 71 deptties of the Girondist party, who had been inprisoned since the 31st of May 1793, were stat liberty.t*Jams: Bbydonk, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.