REPORTOF THE,CATTLE SHOWATTREARUnE,10/A Sept., 1836.WITHAN ESSAYON THE BENEFICIAL EFFECTS OF INDUSTRY,COMPOSED FORAND READ ON THAT OCCASIONBY A. AITKEN.“ What cannot Art and Industry perform,When science plans the progress of their toil,They laugh at penury, disease, and stormAnd ocean’s from their mighty mounds recoil.”beith:PRINTED BY J. SMITH..REPORT, &c.(From the Air Advertiser, Sept. 15, 1836.^The thirteenth Annual Competition of Cattle, forprizes given by the Proprietors to the Tenants on theEstates of Trearne, Hazlehead, Rough wood, Wood-side, and Drumbowie, lying in the Parishes of Beith,Dairy, and Lochvvinnoch, and Counties of Ayr, andRenfrew, took place at Trearne, on the 10th current.The same judges attended who have officiated with somuch satisfaction for the last 12 years, viz:—MessrsAlexander Bartlemore of Seabrae; James Kirkwoodin Gameshill; Robert Craig in Ryesholm: and JohnCraig in Blackbarn. There appeared on the field 29milch cows, 17 queys, 51 stirks, 11 bulls, 27 mares,foals and colts, and 5 pair of pigs, making in all onehundred and forty-five.After inspecting the cattle, in presence of the ten¬ants and a number of spectators, the Proprietor, withthe Judges and Tenants, and a few friends, amountingin all to about 100 sat down to a most comfortabledinner at Trearne, when the report of the Judges wasread over and the prizes, amounting in all to twentypounds, were distributed as follows, viz:—1. For the best bull, two-years-old and upwards,William Kerr in Barrodger.2. For the second best do., Francis Barr, Nettle-hirst. •3. For the best Bull stirk, John Wilson in Burn¬side.4. For the 2d best do., Wm. Fulton, Sproulston.5. For the best stock of Milch Cows not fewerthan four, belonging to one tenant, FlughRobertson in Loanhead.6. For the best Milch Cow, three-years-old andupwards, Hugh Robertson in Loanbehd.For the second best do., Thomas Lauchlandin Bogside.7.8. For the third best do., Matthew Gilmore inBorestone.9. For the best two-year-old Quey, Robert Gil-land in Gurlestone.10. For the second best do., Robert Love in Gate-side.11. For the third best do., Matthew Gilmore inBorestone.12. For the best Stirk, John Shedden in Water¬side.13. For the second best do., James Miller in Park.14. For the third best do., John Watt in Blaeloch-head.15. For the best pair of pigs of the most approvedbreed, John Patrick in Barcosh.16. For the second best do., James Craig in Bersy-know.17. For the third best do., John Shedden in Water¬side.18. For the best Brood Mare with a foal, HughGilland in Gurlestone.19. For the second best do., with or without afoal, Robert Love in Bowhouse.20. For the third best do., Robert King in Shotts.21. For the best two-year-old Colt, Wm. Harviein Coalburn.22. For the second best do., James Boyd in Green-hills.23. For the best one-year-old Colt, Thomas Gal¬loway in Ward.24. For the second best do., Wm. Tyre in Windy-house.During the course of the evening, an Essay on thebeneficial effects of Industry, composed by one of thetenants, was read—some speeches were made, anduseful information communicated by several membersof the meeting, regarding Furrow Drainage—recentAgricultural Improvements, and on various subjectsconnected with Farming, and the management of theDairy—The Meeting separated highly pleased andgratified with the evening’s entertainment.ESSAY, &e.The progress of men who live by their daily industry,through this world, may be likened to the march ofan army through an enemy’s country. He who, fromfatigue, from disease, from inebriety, from severewounds, or whatever cause, falls out of the line ofmarch, and lays him down by the way side, is sure,as a matter of course, to be destroyed by the peasan¬try; once let the column he belongs to pass on alittle way ahead, and death is his sure portion. It isa dangerous thing to fall behind the ever-onwardmarch of the world.Whatever individuals may profess, it is by necessitythat the mass of mankind are compelled to toil fortheir subsistance—this feeling predominates throughall the ramifications of civilised society. In propor¬tion as the necessities of men push them on to seeknew means of subsistance, so do these new meansopen upon their view. On casting a retrospectiveglance upon those steps which society has traced fromits infancy to manhood—from a state of barbarickrudness to a condition of luxury and splendour—weinvariably find that all improvements have originatedin the wants of the people; and that in proportion asthey increased in number so did their invention con¬trive additional means of support. It is from thiscause that Scotland, for instance, had no greateroverplus of food when it had only a million of inhabi¬tants than it has now, when it supports nearly threetimes the number. Nay, it had much less food inproportion when it had only a million of people; andhence it is proved that mankind, by their inventionsand improvements, greatly increase the means ofsupport beyond the point at wliich they formerlystood. The power of inventing new means of sub¬sistance, just as the old ones are perceived to be in¬adequate, has been actively at work since the begin¬ning of time, and will operate for the benefit of ourrace as long as sun and moon endure. It is in theexercise of this transcendant faculty of the humanmind that we see the benificence of the Creator inproviding unseen means of subsistance; and it is inthis that we find the cheering hope that at no period,however distant, even when the whole earth shallhave been covered with inhabitants, shall mankindlanguish for lack of food. As they increase in num¬ber, so will they go on perfecting their contrivances;every succeeding generation may labour under somenew difficulty, but so will it be endowed with thefaculty of releasing itself from it.“ All things in the world are originally the pro¬duce of the ground; what w'e call commodities isnothing but land severed from the soil. Man dealsin nothing but earth. The merchants are the factorsof the world, to exchange one part of the earth foranother. Agriculture is, therefore, the nurse of thearts, the parent of population, and the promoter olwhat is most estimable in human character, or im¬portant in society. Of all the common arts, it con¬tributes most obviously and powerfully to individualand social support and happiness—to it all the artsrefer, and from it they derive the materials ol theiroperations. The labours of the field are calculatedto breed a hardy, strong, temperate, and industriousclass of men. Without thinking that the heathenlegends were altogether allegorical, we may supposethat the poets did not without meaning, assign theculture of the earth as the appropriate employmentof mankind during the golden age, the reign of peace,innocence, and happiness. The benign influence olthis occupation upon the ancient Romans is wellknown. Not only were the armies of Rome formedand recruited from the fields, her legislators, hergenerals, her dictators, were often called from theplough to preside in the senate, or lead forth thelevies to victory. In our own country, no classes ofthe community are more respectable, independent,and intelligent, than the yeomen of England and thepeasantry of Scotland. As they promote the fixedwealth, so they constitute a considerable portion ofthe aggregate wisdom, virtue, and valour ol thenation.” Farming, the primitive natural business ofman, is probably the most healthlul, both for bodyand mind. It places us, as it were in daily contactwith the Deity, by our unceasing experience of hi*superintending love, and goodness, connects earthwith heaven, and brings religion home to our bus¬iness and bosoms.There are countries which yield a plentiful producealmost spontaneously. It is not in these, however,but in those which are comparatively barren, wherethe inhabitants are compelled to wring, by skill andindustry, from niggard nature, the wealth she doesnot easily bestow, that the culture of the soil hasbeen carried to the greatest perfection. GreatBritain, placed under a sky by no means propitious,and possessing a soil originally by no means prolific,surpasses all the world in the art of husbandry. Thefacility with which the banana can be cultivated hasdoubtless contributed to arrest the progress of im¬provement in tropical regions. In the new continentcivilization first commenced on the mountains, in asoil of inferior quality. Necessity awakens industry,and industry calls forth the intellectual powers ofman. When these are developed, he does not sit ina cabin, gathering the fruits of his little patch ofbananas, asking no greater luxuries, and proposingiio higher ends of life than to eat and to sleep. Hesubdues to his use all the treasures of the earth byhis labour and his skill; and he carries his industryforward to its utmost limits, by the consideration thathe has active duties to perform. The idleness of thepoor Indian keeps him, where he has been for ages,little elevated above his inferior animal;—the industryof the European, under his colder skies, and with aless fertile soil, has surrounded him with all theblessings of society—its comforts, its affections, itsvirtues, and its intellectual riches.While we are thus en joying the blessings of civiliz¬ation, we cannot sufficiently honour the memory ofthose whose patriotic energies have been the meansof placing us in such happy circumstances. And weregret to observe that one of the principal hinderancesof social improvement, is, that in consequence of afalse taste, mankind have bestowed more attentionand applause upon great talents or ingenuity, whenexerted in the arts of destruction, than when employ-ed in devising the means of giving plenty and felicityto nations. The writings of historians and poets arefilled with the actions of men, who under the influ¬ence of insatiable lust of donjtinion, have wasted citiesand provinces, and have defaced the finest monu¬ments of human genius and industry, while the beni-ficient enterprizes and efforts of those persons areneglected or forgotten, who invented the instrumentsof agriculture—who selected or imported into theircountry the seeds or plants most worthy of cultivation,or who drained morasses, gave fertility to barrenwastes, and pointed out the best modes of preservingand augmenting the value of the productions of thesoil. Mankind suffered severely from their absurdadmiration of successful ambition, and the applausewhich they bestow on it, tempting thereby restlessindividuals, in every age, to lay schemes for ourdestruction, and to glory in the extent of the mis¬chief which they produce. It seems to be the dutyof men of letters, as friends of humanity, to endea¬vour in the destribution of renown, to call from ob¬scurity, those persons, however humble their stationsmay have been, who have successfully laboured inpromoting the substantial prosperity of their country.Among the number, • none is more deserving ot thisservice than Barbara Gilmour, whose good sense andindustry first produced in Ayrshire what is now cele¬brated through all Scotland by the name of DunlopCheese.Barbara had gone to Ireland to avoid the religiouspersecution which was conducted with such atrocityin the West of Scotland, under the last princes ofthe House of Stuart. Having returned after therevolution, and become the wife of a farmer in theparish of Dunlop, she introduced the manufacture ofcheese, which since that period, has been the greatbusiness of this part of Ayrshire, and has been themeans of covering the country with a number of in¬dustrious, happy, and prosperous small farmers.Our fathers, sensible that the climate and soil werebetter adapted for pasturage than cropping, turnedtheir attention to this species of farming. They im¬proved their breed of cattle, enclosed their lands, andappropriated a third or a fourth part thereof to till¬age—using every means in their power to augmentthe value of theii: stock and annual produce by rais¬ing natural and artificial grasses, of greatest bulkand best quality.The rapidity with which the manufacture of Dun¬lop cheese was introduced into the northern districtof this shire is a striking instance of the readinesswith which farmers are always disposed to follow theexample of one of their own rank. When an equal,depending like themselves, for subsistance in indust¬ry, prospers by means of a new project or success¬ful plan of management, the whole neighbour¬hood eagerly imitates the example set before them,and the change becomes universal, while on the con¬trary, if the improvement is attempted to be intro¬duced by some rich proprietor, from motives of cap¬rice, as they suppose, and with means which theycannot so well command, it always makes its wayslowly, and with difficulty. It is thus that Provi¬dence sometimes puts it in the power of a person inthe humblest station, to become extensively useful tosociety. The example of his successful industry andingenuity, by communicating a spirit of activity andenterprize, proves a source of wealth and comfort tothe whole community.Not only has our Ayrshire cheese been widely cel¬ebrated and enquired after—our Cunningham dairystock has attracted universal regard—breeding sam¬ples thereof have been introduced into every cornerof the united kingdom, they have also been exportedunto almost every civilised nation on the globe. Atno very remote period, as some of you recollect, thecattle of this district were poor half-starved, ill fav¬oured creatures, with black skins and white riggings,fired backs, the hooks on their eyes, and the wormin their tail ; and constantly liable to be shot byelves and other malicious invisible agents. Whencethe grateful change now? I answer, it is happly pro¬duced by skill and industry. I do not say that mancan create, but he has the power to alter, modify,separate, and combine, every tangible substance innature, into whatever shape or purpose he pleases.See, for instance, into how many useful and pleasantsorts of food the milk of the cow can be converted.“ All are aware that vegetables taken from their birth¬place, and cultivated in gardens, undergo changesAvhich render them no longer recognisable as the sameplants. Many that were naturally hairy becomesmooth. Many of such as were creepers and trailedalong the ground, rear their heads and become erect.Others lose their thorns or asperities. Others, again,from the ligneous state which their stem possessed inhot climates, where they were indigenous, pass to theherbaceous, and, among them, some which were per¬ennials become mere annuals. Even our cultivatedwheat is a vegetable brought by man into the statein which we now see it, for in no country does asimilar plant grow wild, unless where it has escapedfrom cultivated fields. Where do we find in natureour cabbages, lettuces, and other culinary vegetables,in the same state in which they appear in our gardens?The same holds true in regard to many animals whichdomesticity has changed or considerably modified?Our domestic fowls and pigeons are unlike any wildbirds. Our domestic hens, ducks, and geese, have lostthe faculty of raising themselves into the higher re¬gions of the air, and crossing extensive countries intheir flight, like the wild ducks and geese fromwhich they wore originally derived. The numerousraces of dogs which we have produced by domesticityare no where to be found in a wild state. In naturewe seek in vain for mastiffs, harriers, spaniels, grey¬hounds, and other races, between which the differenc¬es are sometimes so great, that they would be readilyadmitted as specific between wild animals, yet all thesehave sprung originally from a single race at first ap¬proaching very near to a wolf.” Our almost countlessbreeds of sbeep, swine, &c. are also produced by theagency of man. The story about the old cunningPatriarch, Jacob, with his peeled hazle-rods and hisring-straked, speckled and spotted cattle, that we usedto read, and wonder at, is now thrown into the shade,modern cattle-rearers can change not only the colourof animals, but likewise their shape, and almost theirvery nature.Nothing, you see, is too difficult for well directedindustry, and nothing valuable is to be effected with¬out it. The necessities of life constrain us to industry,and the emoluments of it invite us to exertion. Toit is to be ascribed the invention, and perfection ofall these arts, whereby human life is civilised, andthe world cultivated with numberless accommodationsand beauties. All the comely, the stately the plea¬sant, and useful works, which we view with delight,or enjoy with comfort, industry did contrive themindustry did frame them. Industry reared these com¬modious houses, it laid those convenient roads, andbridges, it planted those fine gardens with variousflowers and fruit, it clothed those pleasant fields withcorn and grass; it built those ships whereby we ploughthe seas, reeping the commodities of foreign regions.It hath subjected all creatures to our command andservice, enabling us to subdue the fiercest, to catchthe wildest, and to render the gentler sort more tract¬able and useful to us. It enables us, from the woolof the sheep, the hair of the goat, and the labours ofthe silk-worm, to weave our clothes to keep us warm,to make us fine and gay. It helpeth us, from thebowels of the earth, to fetch divers tools and utensils.Industry collected mankind into cities, and dis¬posed them into orderly societies, and divised whole¬some laws, under shelter of which we enjoy safetyand peace, wealth and plenty, mutual protection,sweet conversation, and profitable commerce. In¬dustry, by meditation, did invent all those sciences,whereby our minds are enlarged, enriched, and en-obled, our manners are refined, our curiosity is satis¬fied, our life is benefited.Doth our country flourish in wealth, in grandeur,in learning, in general prosperity? it must be imput¬ed to industry; to the industry of its governors settlinggood laws, and mantaining social order, and to theindustry of its people following profitable occupations.It is not by the force and success of our arms, but bypersevering industry and skill, that our country hasarisen to such a pitch of greatness. The industriousman, therefore, has the satisfaction of vanquishingimpediments, conquering difficulties, planning greatdesigns, furnishing useful works, and bringing gooddesigns to perfection. Such a man gains the affectionand gratitude of society. Pleasant to him is the re¬trospect of his past, the enjoyment of his present, andthe prospect of his future existence.In conclusion, I would advise you to be as industri¬ous in the acquirement of useful knowledge as in theaquisition of money or other kinds of wealth. Aboveall, study to acquire a taste for reading. Of all theamusements which can possibly be imagined for ahard-working man, after his daily toil, or in its in¬tervals, there is nothing like reading an entertainingbook. If I were to pray for a taste which shouldabide by me under every variety of circumstances,and be a source of happiness to me through life,and a shield against its ills, however things might goamiss, and the world frown upon me, it would be ataste for reading. I speak of it, of course, as a world¬ly advantage, and not as superseding or derogatingfrom the higher office and surer and stronger panoplyof religious principles—but as an instrument aud amode of pleasurable gratification. Give a man thistaste, and the means of gratifying it, and you canhardly fail of makiug a happy man, unless, indeed,you put into his hands a most perverse selection of jbooks. You place him in contact with the best societyin every period of history—with the wisest, the witti¬est—with the tenderest, the bravest, and the purestcharacters that have adorned humanity. You makehim a denizen of all nations—a cotemporary of allages. Thus enjoying himself, he may forget the “illsof life” fully as much as if he weie ever so drunk, |with the great advantage of having saved his money >for more useful purposes—he is a happy man, and he fbecomes a source of happiness to all around him. Theworld, in short, has been created for him.J. SMITH, PRINTER.