»T H EBritilH GrenadiINVASION THREATENED,!, A NEW SEA SONG.1C The KINfare YOUNG and FAIR.;iQIJEEN MARY’S Lamentation,TO WHICH ARE A£5»EDjiO the DAYS when I was YOUNG,i FrinteJ by J. & M* Robcrtfon, Salto arfcer,The BRITISH GRENADIERS.Q O VM E talk of ATcx^nrfejc,. *i and fosre of Hercules,pi' Hrtlor and Lyf^der,and luch great men as thcfe ;l\ct all tb»: world acknowledges,true vaiour belt appears,VVrth a tow. row, io»r. rows cow, row,bnve Britiui GrenadiersTl'ele ancients of antiquity,ne'er favv a cannon ball $Nor kcjw the force of.powder,to day their foes wit!) aii:Bor braver bows- hav« known it,and badUh^ at* tiaeir fears,’Tkh a tow, ••ow, row, row, rew, row,brave Briti* Greoadecre-' 7 hen we re tehee the orders,‘‘ to iroria. their paiilh^ss;Cur leaders march with feces,add .\vd with hand gtanadoes,iTe tdfs them from the glacis,among! oar en’mies cars,Xvith a tew, row, row-, rev/, row, row,brave 3rkilR Grenadiers.Iben Jove the God of thunder, .and Tte the God Of war j( 3 > .Kough Ncpmae with, his Tridear,Apollo in his Car ;And all tii€ Gods cdeftial,dtjfcending from ihcir/pheKs,Do behold with admirationbrave Britifh Grenadiers,Bat be you Whig or Tory,or any other thing.I’d h ‘4gp you ibli reriember,t’obrv Great Geo roe our Kino,For if you prove rebellions,'we’ll thunder in your ears,With a tow, row row, row, row,' row,bisvc Bntiih Grenadiers.And when the fiege is over,we to the towii repairs,The Citizens cry, huzza, boys,here come the Grenadierr.:Here come the Grenadiers boys.without e’er dread or fear.With a tow, row, row, row, row, few.brave Britifii Grenadiers.Come fill us up a bumper,and len us drink to tiiofe.Who carry Caps and Peaches,and wear the laced clothes,Msy they ana then’ coraihandera,live happy many years.With a tow, row row, row, roW* ran’,brare Bfitiih*Ortaadkrs.O the DA.Y-5 when I was YOUNG.Ofhe day.« when I was young!when l laugh'd at Fortuae’s fplghr.Talked of ,love the whole day long,and with Ntfhr crown’d the night 5Then It was Oid Father Care,'little reck’d! of thy frown.Half thy malice youth couhi heir, 0. and at night a bumper drown.Chor. O the davs when I was young!. when f laugh’d at Fortune’s fprgkt.Talk’d of love the whole day long,and with Ne&ir crown’d the night*Frath they fay lies in a well ;why ? 1 vow 1 ne’er couM fee ;Let t'tc water-dritkers tell,there it always fay for me ; *For when fparkltng wine went routnl,never faw I fu?Tehood'r trialk;But Hill honeft truth'f foundiu the bottom of the’ Hanc. O the days, &c. rTrue, at length my vigour’s flown,l have years to bring decay ;Few the locks that now I own.and the few 1 hare, are grey; • |Tet’oid Jerome thou may’ft boafl,while thy fpirits do not tire, 'Still beneath thy age’s frofl,glo ws a (park of youthful *Tre, O the. Sec,.C 5 )INVASION THREATENED^to fubdue our peaccfui lile :fo arms! to arms! let them be beaten,in front, in rear, each rank and file,loafs up, Britons! roufe! here’s, See,)ur King is. wife, and well fhpported,has men and money in his hand ;lis Generals are well efcorted.- .his Bests at fea bear foie command. See.3ur Cavalry are (lout and hea’hhy,our Regulars, there’s none io brave ;*Dur fenables r.re young and wealthy,and like the Train, none can behave. &c,?ieid Marlhal York, Great Britain’s glory,where’s the man will fit his call ?t’m fure he’s neither Whig nor Tory*to’s country he’s but a Rafcal/Roafe, See,Awake, millions! York will lekd you,Ihould Frenclimen dare to crofs the main;And Briton’s Daughter s they will feed you,’till Frenchnien be by Britons fhin. &c.foon we'll tame their haughty boa'fts.Awaken, Britons ! Frenchmen threaten,Lords & Laird'S src on tipioc (landing,ready to repel tire foe ;And Volunteers, vult thofe commandmg,to. deal to French men mighty woe ! kc.Farmers and Peafanrs—s’! are willingto fupport both King ti Country's caafe ;Hfc?s nothing Kir a cowardly Villainthat will j.ot defend brave Britain's laws.'Ucufe up ib konsi foufel here’s dinners,Frenchir.cn <hrc invade our coads : >To light aod conquer--'VouVe no dr-ingerSj *fqpn we ll turue thefc haughty beads.A NEW S E A S O N G-'%/¥, hearts of oak, who with to tryf your iomme3 on the fca, .And Britou’s cucmi's defy,come enter here with, me;Here s fifty pounds bounty, two raomVs pay,and Have to go cr» (here.Wiih pretty fdris to kiis and play,can Brrtdh 1’ars rik more ?Our (hip is (tout and fails like wind,to chair a her tile foe,To fight like Britons we’re bdia’d*w'e’ii let. the Monfieuts ItnoW ;Our Captain’s gen’roirS, br.Tvr, and good,I   f f ),! 0f prizes rich wr/ii (weep the EocU,can $riuih Tars vhih more ?, And whet; from driving Bourbon’s fleet,, vltinriovis we arrive,1 With muSic, dance, und jovial treat,to nlesfe our girN we’ll drive ;[ Both Ipacidi ii'vef and Frem u gold, 'weK count in plenty o’er," Which wc have won, my ihipmates holdcan Sriufii Tufa wilh more?jil t.The KIND are. FOUMG and F vlR,O beamy born a wtlliog' ilave,‘ f a merry happy man,I flight the. nymph ! cauiiot have,mid do t o'n thofe i can.Chor. ibis ccr.dant maxim flill l.hold,re, baffle all defpair.The uoward, ugly are asd old,rlh? kind .Ire young and lair.The women would no more perplex,weo men rcfliiv’d nod free.Soft fm'res become the charnriDg fex,rtv poudeg bids for me.In wcdlcck'*s bands if e’er T join,good humour be my guide,Let 'dimpled fmflts s:»d love be mice,T!i laugh at female pride.C 8 )QJJ E E N M .* R Y'S Lamentation.IS l G H and laraent me in vain,thefe Walls c^jn bnr ecVo my moan,i\las! it increafes my pain,when [ think on the days that are' gone.Through the grate of my prifon I feethe birds as they wanton in air.My heart how it pants to be free,my looks they are wild with defpatr,Above, though oppreff by my fate,l burn with conten pl for my foes-Though fortuae has alter’d uiy Hate,(he ue’er can fubdne rae to thofe*Falfe woman, in ages to come,thy malice d rteffed {hnll be,And- when we are cold in the tomb,feme heart will fti’l forruw for me,Ye roofs y/here cold danips arid dif.nay.with filcuce and fortitude dwcH,{Tow comfortable paffes the day ?how fadly tolls the evening bell ?The owls from *be battlement cry,hollow winds feem to murmur around, •O M A R Y ! prepare thee to die.my blood it fuus cold at the found.O L A S G O W,Prlottd by J. Sc M. Robertfon, Sahrnarktt, iSoi