THE C5VILLAGE CURATE, |A*INTERESTING TALE;TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE COUNTRY CLERGYMAN,0:o:¥§GLASGOW sPrinted for the Booksellers.A POEM.VJLLA'GS CURATE, ’!A TALE.(j. . . ; . L/*,> i • xa■' <5^.1 9ul*' The good, fur Virtue’s sake, abhor Jo sin.”—-Cnercti. jAt an age when the human mind is most susectftibie of, and too often imbibes, a passion for ytluptumis p]egsuj;^. ere yet experience.the sage piecepts had impressed, Lord Ctliont ii-hc,i'iic;(lsplendid fortune. His ievees were crowded wjtthe most fashionable part of the /•yorhl; the voicof fiatfery -incessantly sang-his praise, and bestove<t on him every votuc that could ennoble t)1?1His ranh in life, and extensive fortune introducehim into..thc first fansilies in. England rant! qveitures of marriagewere maele to hiin hy the parenand guardians of the greatest beauties of tlie.jtgrbut Belfont, though not insensible to the cha);nof beau tv, was not yet become the vassal of thepower.The attention which he imarhihle receivefront the whole circle of his acquaintance, it miglireasonably be supposed, was yej y acc; ptable to 11inexperienced Beliont;, but, no-tnirhstimding h.extreme youth, and ignorance of in tin ami mannersii-pcct^d ti c since* ity oitheseem onomps-w hie[lattcry bestowed on him \ and the pliant voice*stiulaiion had m ade little Ri prcs'um. on his3At once to prove the integritr of fill professedfriends, he carefully spread n report that, by onemprudent step, lie had been precipitated fromprosperity’s flowery mount into the barren valeif poverty. Swift as wildfire ran the evil tale;and those very doors which, as it were by magic,opened at the approach of the rich and happy Bel-lont, were now barred againat the ruined spend-din ft.To give his distress an air of certainty, he madeseveral applications lor assistance to his once vow¬ed eternal friends, which were invariably treatedwith a mortifying contempt. To the lair rivals ofhis affections lie addressed his tale of sorrow ; here,too, neglected was his late. — Bel tout, dispossessed;of the means to gratify their loudness tor dress,mmusement, and pleasure, was an o ject no longerworthy of their regard. Reflecting on theseevents, he exclaimed—‘ How wretched are theichildren of Foitune 1 The poor mati in his hourof distress finds a li iend ; hut the rich, when he>ceases to be so, is disregarded by those whom hisformer bounty fed, and who have not charity! enough to give to Ids misfortunes even the cost-j less sigh ot pity !’In the midst of his contemplations, a servantentered the room, and announced the arrival of..Lord Bremcre; who, returning from, a countrytj excur.-ion, had just heard of his friend s misfortune,u and hastened to relievehis necessities. As he an-! proached, Belfont, rising from his chair, ian to; meet him. “ it is some consolation,” said he,“ for ihe disappointments I have experienced, tofind the man whom I most valued, not unworthvthe esteem I bora him.’ { This,’ continued he,* more than refcon:pence* the ingratitude of'thosimercenary wretches, who cannot recollect the.features of their friend when shaded by the vet;;o! affected distvesa’rl'he conclusion of Belfont’s address forciblstruck Lord Bremere. who repeated the words* affected distress — Adding, with much surprise.—* Are, then, your misfortunes bred by the tattleof t he town.’‘ No, my lord,’ returned Belfont; ‘not frotfthose contemptible beings, who eagerly busy them'selves with every bodies affairs, while they noL’l tAjtheir own, and wdio are only industrious in th*propagation of scandal; but from tnysi ll arose tlu<tale of my distress. I inve ited it, merely tejprove the sincerity of those protestations of eternal friendship, which every day thesiren, Mattel}’whispered in my ear; and which to speak thtruth, were become most intolerably di.-gusting|Am on" mv female friends,’ contmucd lie, ‘a ladvon whom I looked with partial c\e', and who, nfact, had made some faint impressions on my heardhad the cruelty to smile at my distress ; but J than!her for her contempt; it has broken asunder thoschains her beauty Jtad forged to hold my heart itbondage.’‘ And what use dees your Lordship mean tmake of this discovery ?’ inquired Bremere.‘ Mv resolutions, Charles,’ returned Belfont i‘ and your ideas, 1 will venture to say, are of aopposite nature. You perhaps imagine thattihali return to the fashionable world ; refute thifeitinioji it entertains of my distress, and-reproach.for its ingratitude.”‘ What else can you purpose?’ asked Bremere.‘ Convinced of your Lordship’s integrity,’ re-Jed Bel font, ‘ I shall not hesitate to repose in:ur breast tile secret of my resolves. The sud «n death of my uncle,’ contined he, ‘ has givene an ample fortune; the enjoympntof which, ine vulgar opinion of mankind, enstires - he con-mt possession of happiness. Alas! how mistaken,such a notion ! It is true, my every wish is gra-ied but one. You smite, Charles, and alreadyticipato, that yet unaccomplished wish — Yes Iy friend, the society of a virtuous female, whose: isom is awake to the soft touches of humanity,d who will not, to the offspring of distress, ro¬se the tributary sigh of pity, nor from the needyfferer withhold the sacred 'boon of charity, isnot I am now in search of. In the higher circles* lif added he, ‘my pursuit has proved ahor-yo, and, assuming the appearance of the rusticittager, I mean to seek it in humbler scenes !’J It was in vain that Lord Bremere endeavouredi persuade his friend from his purpose. BelfontfJmained inflexible to all his entreaties, and, hav-g drawn from his friend all assurance of invio!-pie secrecy, they parted : Bremere to the haunts! giddy passion : Bdfont, to prepare for his visitI those of rural felicity.I After a short repast, Belfont, leaving directionsrith his steward for the management of the fami-i in his absence, retired to rest; and, at an earlypur, while the sons of riot and dissipation wereituruiog from their nocturnal revels, h« left hi*efpljpndttl mansion, anil in the humble garb ofpedant, with a few necessaries tied up in a liavflKerchief, began his retreat from the metropoliiHis name and title were only known in Grosvene]Square; at present he coiHented himselt v'.ilh ti'lh'" tlignifie<i appellation of George Trueman: atallvs? ff L’-vi' Beffont were i(M a time vunishecHaving continued his walk for near t'nree hourhe found h mself fatigued ; when an inn, oppoiunely presenting itself to view, afforded him aopportunity of resting his weafy limbs, and snli;fyiPg the cravings of nature, which exercise harendered more than commonly acute. The olsequipus host soon furnished him with an excc:lent breakfast, which having finished, he mountethe Norwich stage, that had arrived during hrepast, and, at tlre close of the day, found Iiimseliu that citt'.Meanwhile Bremere, mixing with the circle cBel font’s hte acquaintance, heard with silent indignation the illiberal and unjust reflections that wercast on the supposed misconduct of his friend.The impertinent inquiries w ith which his'earwere assailed from all who knew him in the habitof friendship with Belfont,, were almost too mucfor his temper to hear with composure; and hwas often on the point of violating the promise asecrecy his friend had extorted from him. to viadicate his character from the aspersions o! .-Iander.Seated one evening in a box at Drury I.:in«theatre, he was seen by Lady Caroline Blandishfrom the opposite side of the house; who,terew/Mij, immediately came round to him. “ iS<*7|by lord.” said she, entering the box, “ what t»iiiecome of your friend Belfont ? Have you seenlini lately ? How does he bear his misfortunes?ill am really sorrow for the unfortunate youth?’‘ My friend,’ replied Bremere, ‘ is infinitelyobliged io your ladyship for the concern jcu taken his dp tress.’‘ Why, you know, my lord,’ returned Ladyi -aroline, ‘ one can’t help being concerned for thejlUtresses of those who wereof one’s acquaintance.. profess,” continued she, ‘ the news of Ids ruinjjstonished me prodigiously; and I assure you, I• elt myself extremely hurt at it; for his lordshipnac! paid me much attention, and I began to thinki. had made a conquest. It ;s, however,’ added'.he, ‘ veiy fortunate that the affair ended as it•Ipid, for you know, it would have been a shockinghintr to have involved one’s scifin such difficulties,i] ‘ True, madaiti,’ replied Bremere; who, by her||ndyship\s discoune, found she was the person tovhom Belfont alluded, as having attracted his-particular nopce; ‘but, after all, whatever dimi-Iputipn the fortm e of l.oid Bellbnt has received,>e aspired, it is still sufficient to support the wo¬man whom he shall honour with his hand, in a•tile of elegance that might sooth the most exten¬sive vanity.” And, without waiting her ladyship’sqcp!v, bowed, and wished her good night, disgust-’d with the afiecled concern she expressed for .hisriend’s imaginary distress, which was but ill cal-rtdated to gonceal the spirit of malevolence thatlankicd in her bosom.Lady Caroline concluded, what he had said wasmly to shelter his friend from the censure of th*8world, and to encourage the opinion that h:s affa*r‘Hwerenot so desperate as they had been represented jlWith these ideas, she joined her compai.y : aiajSBel font ami his mistortiines escaped her memdryH'And now, gentle reader, let us attend the step*of Bel font; whom, hereafter, we shall distinguishby that of rrtieman. Having spent a few day#at Norwich, he left that citv, and continued hillexcursion, till he found himself, for the first tinieiin the midst of his tenantry.Totally unknown to his tenants and his steward!he had an opportunity of informing himself of tlioppression which the former boie, and the abusewhich the latter committed. It was near sun-sewhen he arrived at a pteasanlvillage on the borderof the sea, which contained, what is there called,an inn. Having deposited his bundle in the roonwhere he was to sleep, he repaired to the kitchenand, seating himself among the rustics assemblesover their evening gotch of nog*, joined in theidiscourse.The conversation chiefly turned on the transactions of the viliage ; and, among a variety ofanec:dotes detailed of the inhabitants, the recent mis.fortunes of their worthy cm ate most attracted tinnotice of Trueman. The incident dwelt stronghon his mind; and he determined to make himselacquainted with the nanativeofa man of whenhis parishionersspokein such high terms ofapprotbation. He invited the landlord to partake ol hiibeverage; who being a communicative sort cw* The earthen jugs, out of which the people in Norfolk driiJ»re called gotcA«; and their strong beer is known by the name tnog,ersor., and one who had a considerable sliareof 'i luinanity interwoven in Ids composition, readilyIpmplied with Trueman’s request, to relate thetislortun.es of the worthy paslor." ‘ I will tell you, sir,’ said he, ‘ tlte story of Pai'-■pn Ben ley. You must know, sir, that he is theurate of our parish. The living, which is theilt of my Lord Belfont, belongs to a clergyman,»ho lives in the west; and, though it brings himu a good threeliundred poundsayear,hegiveshisurate only forty pounds out of it. So that, your jee, the master gets two hundred and sixty poundsior doing nothing, as one may say, while the ser-ant, who tloes every thing, is obliged to be con-ented with scarcely a seventh part of that sum :#nd though the good woman, his wde, broughtHim a large hi.mily, he never could get any increase>f salary. Tins made him determine on taking!i farm ; which, by the death of one of Ids neigh¬bours, became vacant. But I don’t know howt was, though he worked as hard as any (^'''la¬bourer in the parish, and Ids wile was industri¬ous as a bee, they eould’nt, as the.saying is, brimrboth ends together; and, to make short of thematter, my Lord’s steward seized on Ids stock,H"ch not being sufficient to pay all arrears thefhanl-hearted rascal clapt him into fhe county'fgaoi.’ J1 ‘ And his family,’ asked Trueman, ‘ what are{become of them ?’Ills wi e and four children,’ returned thejam o.d, ‘ tfnee fine boys from ten to thirteenpears old, and a daughter grown up, are in a cot-tnge hard by, that bel ngs to me. The overseefof the paruh, whoia a crabbed sort ol a JeMovr,and a friend of the steward,was for sending thein1to the workhouse. But ‘No,’ says I; ‘holdneighb mr Bruin, while my roof can give theim',,shelter, and I cm provide them with a meal to'eke out the earnings of their own industry.—Andyou m ist know. Sir,’ said he, with a significantnod, ‘ i am pretty warm—they shall never en-dine t ie wants and hardships of a prison.’ ‘ Forwhat,’ said l, ‘ isyour work housebut a dungeon,where the poor eat little and labour hard?’ ‘ But,sir,’ continued the landlord, ‘ not only I, but thewhole village was against their going there; andthe inhabitants all cheerfully spare a little towards,the family s support; nay, even the labouringcottager, out of his hard earnings, throws in hismite.’* And what,’ inquired Trueman, ‘is the a-mount of the sum for which the unfortunate manis now confined ?’* The whole debt,’ replied the landlord, 4 Iam told, is about three hundred pounds - a sumby much 100 large for the inhabitants of our pa¬rish to raise without injuring themselves; or, de¬pend upon it. he would soon be snatched fromthe gripe of the law ’Every particular which related to this worthyman, Trueman inquired with an earnestness thatdisplayed the philanthropic sentiments of his mind;and intimated not merely a wish, but a fixed de¬termination, to rescue the indigent sufferer fromthe horrors ofa prison, and restore him to his dis¬consolate family. Impressed sith this generoussentiment he retired to bed, meditating on themesas by which he might etffect hi* laudable de-n}j%ns, so as to give the least offence possible !•■i he delicacy of suffering virtue, and conceal theKind that loosed the chains of bondage, and gaveibnce more to the drooping captive the possession• j>i’ liberty!w After proposing to himself many plans, he at: length determined to walk the next day to a post. own, about three miles off and enclose notes tohe amount of Mr Benley’s debt, in a letter tohat gentleman. This appeared to him the besti method he could devise, as it would h ave no tracesmat might lead to a discovery from whom themerited bounty came. Thus resolved, he yielded' o the soil embraces of sleep; and, in the morn-l|ng, rose to execute his benevolent purpose.!|[ In his return, he saw a female and a little boy.ipThe youth carried a basket, which seemed too! aeavy for his feeble strength to support. The fe¬male had in each hand a jug; and, having out¬walked her companion, had seated herself on astile to wait his coming up. Trueman accostedthe youth, and offered to assist him in carrying'|)is load ; a proposal which the youngster readilyaccepted, telling him, at the same time, that lie'had been to a ncighbourina farmer for cheese andi)utU*r ; and that his sister had got two JUL'S of(milk for his orothers’ breakfast.—‘ And what isyour name ? said Trueman—‘ Benley, sir; andwe live in yonder cottage,’ pointing to n smallhouse.‘ Char lotte,’ said the youth, ‘ here is a gentle¬man has kindly carried my basket forme; andiua you complain the jugs are too heavy for you,I dare say lie will help you too/‘ YWat I vwU, and e^te^m myself obliged to t»do, said Trueman, placing the basket on tfp-ound, and bowing to Miss Lien ley. ‘ You nr)very kind, sir,’ said Charlotte ; 1 but I am ash a nred that Henry should have given you so mutrouble; lie is an idle boy, or lie would not hathus intruded on your politeness.’* Call it not intrusion ; the young gentlcmaasked not my assistance, and my service is v1 nut ary.’The blushing Charlotte accepted tlieassistanc,ofthe era I hurt strarmcr. Trueman viewed, wita joy bordering on rapture, the personal accorrplishments of his fair companion. ‘ And, ohsaid he, ‘ should she wear a pure mind, and ur.stained as is her lovely form, she were a treasutwoith the proudest monarch’s love !’The lovely maid answered with indifferentevery question of the enamoured youth. T1gloomy prospect of futurity had robbed Milien ley of that vivacity, which, in her happhtlavs, she was wont to possess.H arry Ben ley’ having informed his motherthe stranger’s civility, the good woman walked ithe wicket gate, that formed an entrance tollgarden, to welcome her daughter’s return ; nmthanking Trueman for his politeness, invited hito partake of their morning’s refreshment.< I am sorry,* said the venerable matron, ‘ tlimy means, and my inclination to make you wecome, are not in qni-on with each other, but thwhich I have to give, I give freely—Thera wia time—‘ I have heard of your misfortunes, madan(Ktfirrup'teel Trueman ;aad I sincerely syrnpnthi13i« your sufferings. But do not yield to despair.'The hand which inflicts distress can also he towhappiness; and though the pitiless storm ofstern adversity to day beats hard and heavy onyour defenceless roof, to-morrow prosperity’scheerful sun may raise your sinking hopes, andrepair the ravages of the ruthless blast.’Mrs Benley aud her daughter could not avoidmakiW their observations on tire strangeness ofthe visit; while he congratulated himself on thecompletion of his wish for an introduction to thisamiable family.' It was on a market-day that Farmer Welfordwaited on the good old man. He found him in asmall room, pursuing his pious meditations'. Thesight of any of his parishioners was a cordial tothe drooping spirits of Mr Benley. His griefs,though not forgotten, were suppressed while con-iVersing with his friends ; but, at the moment ofIscparation, they returned with increased pugnnn-cy, and it required the utmost effort of mind toSupport the painful ‘ Adieu !’‘ Eternal God !’ exclaimed the weeping father,‘ must I no more enjoy the sweet's of liberty !I How changed the scene ! Here, when night her(isable mantle o’er the face of heaven begins to(spread, nothing is heard but the dismal rattling ofchains ; doors of massy iron, grating on their hir-iges, appal the timid soul ; while horrid oaths anddreadful imprecations wound the listening mr. OWelford ! my soul sickens at the scene; ami phi¬losophy scarce can shield my mind from the her-it rors of despair !At this moment the geolcf entered ths roomHwith a letter for Mr. Benley—‘ The hand is ur;known to me, said he. - ‘ It has a goodly out-|side,’ said the gaoler; ‘ pray Heaven it provenot like the world, fair without and foul within,1‘ Why, truly, friend,’ returned Mr Ben ley i‘ your satire upon the manners of mankind is no)unreasonable. It is, I fear, the maxim of manyof the present age to conceal the depravity of thheart beneath the specious appearance of honesty,I his, however,’continued he, breaking the seal‘ I think, bodes no harm ; I will therefore informniyself of its contents ’‘ It is well,’ said he, * goodness ‘s still entantand innocence enjoys the guardian care of Provi¬dence. The contents of tins letter will best ex¬plain my meaning—‘ To the Reverend John Benley, at the Castle olNorwich :‘ Reverend Sir,—The enclosed notes, which I‘ find, on enquiry, will cover the whole of yout4 debts, wait acceptance. They are the gift of one4 on whom fortune lias bestowed more than he* ca.n claim on the score of desert; and who anxi-4 ously hopes, while it restores to you those most4 enviable blessings, liberty and domestic happi-4 ness, he has left no c!ue by which a discovery ol4 the donor may be effected.”Here the gaoler broke into a swearing fit of jov;the farmer con.d only express Ids pleasure with hislooks, while the grateful pastor throw himself onhis knees,.and poured forth the grateful transports■'•T b is soul to the Giver of all Goodness:H While the batmtj of the generous TVuemaa«as thus employed in releasing the worthy Cu-iite from tiie horrors of a prison, he himself wn»i o less assiduous in soothing, by every act <>fbe-levolence and hospitality, the anxiety of the fh-' lily at home.1 With the assistance of his landlord, he was be¬rime acquainted with every transaction that hadi icurred in the village. In one of his eveninglalks, he was roused from ids meditations by (bemWen exclamations ofa female voice; and, rms-rg his eyes, beheld the fair object oi his affbc-; Ions emleavoming to avoid the opportunities ofgentleman who was pursuing her.‘ Stay, lovely Charlotte!’ said the stranger,Why do you fly me thus ?’‘ Why, -sir, are you so importunate?’‘ Because I wuh to remove the cloud of sorrow>at hangs on your brow. In short, because Ilive you. Who could behold beauty such asnmir’s, and live a stranger to affection !’‘ Affection !’ view your recent conduct to mycither; then say it affection bore a leading feature■mere ?’‘On honourable terms I sought your hand,• j'hich you in scorn refused. Had your father thenit id on you his commands, and forced you to benine, he had escaped my resentment.’‘ ‘ My choice was free, sir; and, perhaps it wasmy nature’s fault, I could not love you. But ex-ause my abruptness, should we be seen thus di»-four-ing, tiie discovery would not add to my re¬futation.’)l ' I'lai? contempt^ child,- i« »cry pretty. I but it.\ifcliall not divert me from tasii-og the rijje beatitle*of those matchless charms.’ Then rudely snatch-in>r the strugnlin^ beauty to his loathed embrace,impressed on her lovely lips thepuilty purposeujIris passion. At that instant, ra^e and indi^natiofired the soul of Trueman ; who, darting througthe hedge, seiaed the rude ravisher by the threwand hurled him to the ground. ‘ Detisted morster ! 1 knew thee well 1 Thou art the faithkssteward of the abused Belfont. Already has tlivfame reached thy master’s ears: nor think,ingrate, that he will suffer thy villanies to escyptwith impunitv.’ Then taking the almost famtiiCharlotte by the hand, he hastened from this falllen Lucifer,'1 he spirits of Charlotte hardly supported hefrom the presence of her base assailant, before shsunk lifeless into the arms of her deliverer ; wireurged by fear, placed her on a bank, and ran fowater to a neighbouring rivulet, and besprinkieolher features with the cooling drops. Soon situnclosed her lovely eyes, and recovered‘ 'i on tremble still, my Charlotte, and by youdisordered looks, seem to doubt your safety.’‘ O no! where Trueman is, suspicion lias mdwelling ’‘ Enchanting ^ weetness! Oh, my lovely Charlotte, never till lids hour of danger did I kno\.|iiow dear an interest in my heart you heldWould my sweet giil but kindly listen to my art.!less tale, — would she but g've my ardent passionone approving smile.’—‘ Alas !’ interrupted Charlotte, ‘ I have nosmiles to give. On any other sul^ect, l will hc»ITion; but, till again my father breathes the air ofI'-erdom, till from the chains of bondage he is‘reed, 1 have foresworn all joy.’11 ‘ Till that blest period,’ said Trueman, ‘ whenoi tune shall cease to prosecute thy venerable sire,hd give the captive to his weeping friends, my■tassion in concealment’s painful bosom shall dwell' trimtired, if then thou wilt give my artless talettention! This only do I ask: grant me but this;ml hope shall nurture my love, and lull to restach intrusive care.’‘ Then, by my hopes of bliss hereafter,’ saidIhe maid, ‘ I vow, when that happy hour arrives,i will not chide thy fondness. But tell me, whatnenns this sudden joy that through the villageieigns? I low sweetly sound the merry bells;ivhile every breeze from yon shouting throng waftsdie breath of pleasure/‘ And see,’ said Trueman, ‘ where, to my Char¬lotte’s cottage they bend their steps! Ills, me-ihinks, no vulgar cause that swells this loud ex-ielaim ! — But see 1 your brother comes, the hur-hngcr of happiness.’* ‘Oh, Charlotte!’ said Harry, ‘ our dear fatherifs come lioine again Farmer Welford brought;'ne news that lie was on the road, and the wholeIvillagc went to meet him. They took the horses•from the chaise, and dragged him to our cottage.;|My mother cries for joy, and sent me to seek aftervou. Make haste, my father longs to see you —f^nd do you, Mr. Trueman come too; my motherlas told him what a kind friend you have been ;: 1 will run back, and say you are coming.’j, ‘ Now, my Charlotte,’ said Trueman, ‘ indulge1*tMs flood of joy, nor check the soft emotion* c,the soul These tears become thee; which, likjthe fleeting -hower that bathes the summer’s da1gives fresh lustre to the charms of nature.’‘ Is that which I have heard derived from truthsor is it but thedream of fancy? My father relcased from piison : By whom ?’‘ Why,’ said Ih ueman, ‘ should you qtiestio)whence the gracious bounty came. It is sulHcie;that he is returned Tiiiiik tlio measure of hiibliss is incompiete, til! in hispaternai embrace lifolds thy lovely form. Hasten, then, to increaseand share his merited happiness. ’! hen, fohlimher arms in his, he hurried towards her dwdliiu'Mr. Benhy was seated at the door of the cot.tage, surrounded by many of his pai isbionerswhen Chat lotto't ushee! into her father’s arms, exclaiming—‘ My dear, dear father.’ The turnip*raptured parent mingled the tears of fond aflectioiwith those of filial gratitude; and every countynance beamed with smiles of joy. Nor was th<welcome of the worlhy Truetnan wanting in cor(liality; bul, when the. lovely Charlolle rciatirher rescue from the his ted Sum ford, the n.urtmiof applause fell from every longue, while the gratefill father strained the gallani .stranger to i i;. hearby the endearing name of Son,The return of the worthy pastor was celebr'ntccby the inhabitants of the pm ish as a sort of jubileeEvery one strove to excel his neighbour in acts <>tcourtesy. Stores of viands were conveyed fromrl! parts of the village’; and white, by the pale liglrof tlse moon, sprightly youth led up the merrydance, cheerful ages*! and quaffed the nut-brow#?, talked over tbe fears of former day?, and infought "few yoiihsr again.II Every transaction that had occurred since Lord: l:‘!font’s arrival in tiie village, he had transmittedi his friend Bremere; and on confirmation ofe oppression which his steward had exercLed,dosed the discharge of that unfeeling wretch ;til an order to deliver his accounts to Mr Benv'. whom he acquainted Ids successor. A letter■nouncing to lids gentleman Ids appointment,•o atcoinpan'ed the packet, which Breinere.('In yi warded from London, in the manner Ids friendd directed. By this time Bremere had refufuli e opinion which had been entertained of the de-i jngement of Ids lordship’s finances. The wholeis declared to be a feint.The sensations of Stndford, on reading Insordsidp’s letter, were such as are familiar only- ji the guilty. The perturbation of his mindfought on a violent fever which soon terminatedis miser:)hie exigence.Far different were the feelings of Mr Benley —[low variegated is the life o! man ! His mornil in fane v rises immersed it! clouds, and the lower-g tempest carries ruin in ns aspect. Anon, thefcndlv breeze of fortune disperses the tlneaten-‘fg storm; prosperity’* golden ♦un sheds fiuth itsIteering rays, enenc.tes the chid blasts of Ids black■ fvervitv. and decks the evening of his days ini idles of j.iv. And oft the ministers of fate reversee pleasing scene i said Trueman ‘ 'sen meune very offportunely to share the pleasuresInch our newly acquired fortune gives,’ le¬aned tht curate. And, after havingr informedTrueman of the contents of the letter, tollhim he had discovered the bounteous hand thogave him liberty.‘ I have compared this letter of my Lord Betfont with the one I received when under confinement, and I find the characters of each exactlcorresponding. To his lordship I attribute thbenevolent act. To-morrow we purpose leavinthis humble dwelling, and once more taking possession of our former mansion ; where, I hope, tvshall enjoy the pleasure of your company.’‘ You dome infinite honour, Sir; and I wistudy to deserve your favour. But where is MisBenley, Sir ? I came purposely to inquire hotshe finds herself, after her last night’s merriment‘ I believe you will find her in the gardenShe and her mother will keep you company foan hour or two, while I visit my friends in thtvillage.’l i neman walked to the bottom of the gardenand found his lovely Charlotte seated on a howcof osiers, which she herself had reared. She ha'a letter in her l and, which, as she perused, tintears of anguish fell from her sorrowing eye!Trueman’s approach roused the maid ; she sim icfrom her seat, hurried the letter into her pocketand darted an angry look at the youth.‘ Wiiy, my lovely Charlotte ! do you tintangrily fix on me those streaming eyes?• Answer me faithfully,’ said she; ‘ art tliO'wfiat thou scemest ? or, beneath the mean attirebut ill according withthypolished phrase andmanper, dost thou not hide—Ha! my fears are trueThe b'u h of guillqha* crimsoned o’er thy facesitiiat confused eir, that suddett t-tart, pi oclaimi? false !'ri'cll me,’ said Trueman, recovering himself,s c grounds on widen you have raised this un-) suspicion of my honour.’This will inform you, sir; a friend of Missiiiey advises her to be on her guard. Trueman;ot what he seems, but, beneath the appearance•ustic honesty, harbours designs dests uctive ofi peace and itonour.’Now, sir, what can you plead to this charge ?’1 Miss Henley, that 1 love you, I think', is stillond dispute. 1 hat you approved my passion,■ I, owned a mutual flaiiie, is equally on the sideruth. To the charge here preferred againstl, that I am not what 1 seem, 1 plead guilt} ;: to the r.'.-t, with all my soul, I pronounce itase falsehood.’Less warmth, sir, will better serve the causeiruth.’ -if Less warmth, madam, would confirm me theilty wretch your hard thoughts, and this vileoil, have made me. Hut, teil me, if I can repeltruth indubitable, this unjust arraignment of• honour, what reward I may expect'.'”‘ Oh ! clear but thyself of these gross suspi-ms; appear but the man my fond wishes havermed thee, and l would reject the crowned mo-rch’s hand to share thy honest love !’‘ Then fear not, and anow that I am the happyjjlfom !‘ Lord Beifont;’—‘Yes, the rich, the happy'•Ifbnt, lives the vassal of your power. But tellhorn what envious hand didst ihou receivepis vile defomer of mv truth?’tilv»]irn dancing cn lli« grfftn, fileJer fell from your pocket. I took it up unobvercd,-{ind pcruscci its contents: from winch I iearntthat vou were in disguised‘ And the rest your fears supplied ?’—‘ Eviso.’‘ Then, truly, you had reason for suspicion -But come, let us disclose our mutual pass-ionyour parents. Their approbation gained, 1then will name the happy day.”* May 1 entreat a moment’s conversation, si* Aye, my good sir, an hour’s, replied Mr. Be1(7-’‘ Thus it is, sir. Your daughter has beamworth, ami innocence. I sought, I gained 1fond regard: and it is now our mutual wishexchange our holy vows, and sign a contracteternal loved4 How say you, Charlotte? In this, does ^Trueman speak the wishes of your heart?’‘ He has my Iree consent, sir, to what he nproposes.’‘ flic recjiiest is somewhat sudden. It is triI have found you worthy, and your merit defer'the treasure which it seeks: b it a tender regrfor the happiness cf my child forbids me to giv'too precipitate answer; and some little inquirynecessary to-—”‘ True, it is a matter that requires the irserious consideration; :*1 the reluctance whyou fed gives additional lustre to your charactlAn accident has revealed me to the fair object!my wUhes. I tlnv.v ce de disguise, and conies:mys elf the happy Belfontd2-3,s 'i’hfn, sail may .site prere ileservin^.vour \sr^_, •he lovely maid smiled consent: and Mr Ben-:y, hastened to the village, where tne joylul tid.-:ips soon spread. Ti»a tenants flaw with cheerfuli -j-te to pay trfelf duty to their illustrious laud-, rrd, and none refused the invitation of his lord*<:>>(!THE coutcrnv cllrgymav.u‘l fear yonder copse where otiee the garden smil’d,nd still where many a garden flower grows wild,‘here wherp a. few torn shrubs the place disclose,fhe village preacher’s modest mansion rose.A man he was to nil the country dear,hd passing rich with forty pounds a year,ie'.ip’.e from towns, he ran Iris godly race,!»’or e’er Ipid changed, nor wished tochatigehtsplace' jJpnracUsed he-to fawn, or «eek for power,iy doctrines fashioned to the varying hour:.par other aims his heart had learned to prise,irjLore skiji’d to raise flu; wretched than to rise,if,,,His house was known to all the vagrant train :f ie chid their vvamlVmgs, but reliev’d their pain,U he.long remember’d beggar was his gives-1,iiY’hbse heard descending swept His aged breast:iiil.e ruin’d spendthrift now no longer proud,’laftri’d kindred there, and hadbis eiaims allow’d,'"be broken sol-djer, kindly bul to stay,!at by his five, and talk’d the niuht away;.I opt. o’er his wounds, or.tales of sorrow done,Jjinhtilder’d his crutch, und shew’d how fields werevrun.Pleas'd with hispuest»,thcgood man tearidd toglowiAnd quite forgot their vices in their wo:Careless their merits ©r their faults to scan,His pity gave ere charity beg*n.rims to relieve the wretched, was his pride; |And ev’n his failings lean’d to virtue’s side:But, in his duty, prompt at ev’ry call,He watch’d and wept, lie pray’d and felt for all*A nd, as a bird each lond endearment tries,To tempt its ucw-fledg’d offspring to the skies, 1He tried each art, reprov’d each dull delay,Allur’d to brighter worlds, and led the way.Beside the bed, where parting life was laid.And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismay’d,,'I be reverend champion stood. At his control,Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul :Comfort camedown the trembling wretch toraiseAnti his last falt’ring accents whisper’d piaise-At church, with meek and unaffected grace,His looks adorn’d the venerable place;Truth from his lips prevail’d with double sway,And fools, who came to scoff, remain’d to prayThe service past, around the pious man,With ready Zeal, each honest rustic ran ;Ev’n children follow’d with endearing wile,And pluck’d hisgown,tosharethegood man’ssmilHis ready smile a parent’s warmth express’d ; |Their welfare pleas’d him, and their cares distress"To them his heart, his love, his griefs, were giv’iBut all his serious thoughts had rest in heav’n :•As some tall cliff’, that lifts its awful form,Swells from the vale and mid-way leaves the stor:Tho’ round its breast the rolling clouds arespresEternal sunshine settles on its bead.FINIS.