*O^COTUW )eOTNeuF^ £ 1 J[Id escriptionOF T H BTrue Natureo Fiis CHISM.AS ALSO||A VINDICATION of the AfemblfsI ‘DlreBory, our Reformers, and Fellow*I Jbif-Meetings, from the malicious andgroundlefs Afperfions of Mr. John Currie.l —^ — *    ■    'By the late Reverend and LearnedWILLIAM WILSON,Minifter of the Gofpel at Perth.Ir. WftsoN, in his Defence of the Ref or*mat ion Principles of the Church of Scot¬land, in Anfwer to Mr. Currie’s Ejfay onSeparation, fhewing what was our Refor¬mers, and what is the Scripture-Senfe of|| Schifm, argues thus,Nur Author likewife, p. 46. mentions the Aft ofir 1647, intituled, Ja again/} fuch as tuitk-mfehts from the publick Worjhip in their ownI Mr[ 2 ]Congregations. “ In this Ail (fay* be) for prefcrving .“ Order, Unity and Peace in the Kirk, and for pre-“ venting of Schifm, they injoined every Member in“ every Congregation to keep their own Parifh kirk,“ communicating there in Word and Sacrament.” ThisAft is frequently thrown up by our Author, with veryindecent Infinuations againft it. I fhall in this Placeoffer what I intend for the vindicating and clearing of it.The Preamble to the Aft declares the End and Defignof it, vise., for preferring Order, Unity, l£c. and forpreventing Schifm. I once defigned to have given amore large Account of the Nature of Schifm in a Seftion ;by itfelf; bur, finding that thia Book fwells upon myHand, I fhall forbear it: Only, I mull here obferve, :that we find the Word Schijm ufed leveral Times by theApoltle in his firli Epiftle to the Corinthians, as Chap,i. IO. Now 1 bejeech yon. Brethren,——and that therebe no Divijions among you. The Wcrd Divi/ions is inthe Original Scbiims, Chap. xi. 18. I bear that there be (Divifans among you, or SCH ISMS. And if we require, 1What were thefeSchifms jthat were in the Church of •Corinth? I anfwer. They were Divifions, Differences^ ]and Janglings amongfl the Members of that Church, iwho ffill remained joined together in externa! Church-communion, or in the fame Church-Order, DifcipHne , rand Worfhip: The Apoftle gives a particular Inllance. fof their Divifionsand Janglings, i Cor. i. iz.end iii. 4. jOne faid, lam Paul ; another, lam ^Apollcs.-jThere was a Siding amongft them about their Miniflers jand Teachers,'who held the feme Teftimony of Jefus.And here I obferve, that the Spirit of God in the holy kScriptures calls it Schifm, when the Members of a par¬ticular organical Church put a Difference aniongfl theirfaithful Miniflers and Teachers, who are holding thefame Teltimony of the Lord J[efus: As this is'.SrT>//z» inthe S'cripture-fenfe of the Word, fo it ought to be coti»i vdemned in all the Churches of thrift; and this is thatSchifmand Separation tcflified againft by the abeve Aft[ 3 ]I of the AlTembly 1647. Our Author, when fpeaking ofII it, p. 95. tells us, “ Thatwza^ think there w»nad not||« a great deal of Tyranny in that Ad of Affemblyjl" 1647, But, whatever he or others mayi1 think, there wanted not a great deal of Scripture reafonl in it; in regard that all the Minilters of the Church ofi Scotland, were at that Time holding the fame Teilimonyl againlt Popery, Prelacy, Eraftunifm and Sedarianifm:| They were, in their judicative Capacity, afferting and1 maintaining the covenanted Dodrine, Worlhip, Govern-iment and Difcipline of the Houfeof God in this Land,in Oppofition to every Thing contrary to foundDoftrine and the Power of Godlinefs; the Confeffion ofFaith compiled at Weflminitler was received and approvenby this Affembly: And the Introdudion to the Ad ourAuthor inveighs againlt runs in the following Manner ;“ Since it hath pleated God of his infinite Goodnefs to“ blefs his Kirk within this Nation with the Riches of“ the Gofpel, in giving to us his Ordinances in great“ Purity, Liberty, and withal a comely and welL“ eftablilhed Order.” If thefe Things are confidered, itis plain that the Schifm condemned by this Affembly isthat which the Scripture calls Schijm, namely, a fe-parating from fuch Minifters as are holding the fameTTeftimony of Jefus. But this will further appear, if weponfider the Means that are injoined by this Affemblyfor preventing ScAf/fo ; and thefe are of two Sorts, thefiift toncerns Minifters themfelves, and the other con¬cerns the People. Our Author thinks fit to report whatconcerns the People, and, after his partial Manner, heconceals the firft Mean that is laid down by this faithfulAffembly, “ for prefervihg Order, Unity and Peace“ in the Kirk, and for maintaining that Refped which,“ is due to the Ordinances and Minifters of jefus Chrift,“ for preventing Schifni, noifom Errors, is’c.” But,tho’ he thinks fit to omit what is injoined Minifters forattaining the above valuable Ends, I think it very ne-ceffary to tranfcribe it, •viz. The Affembly “ doth“ charge[ 4 3“ charge every Minifter to be diligent in fulfilling hi*“ Miniftry, to be holy and grave in his Converfation,to be faithful in Preaching, declaring the whole“ Counfelof God, and, as he hath Occafion from the•' Text of Scripture, to reprove the Sins and Error*,“ and prefs the Duties of the Time; and in all thefe to“ obferve the Rules prefcribed by the Afiembly:Wherein if he be negligent, he is to be cenlured by!“ his own Presbytery.” Therefore this Aft ofAf-ifembly obliges Minilters and People to their mutual re¬lative Duties: and, in order to prevent Scbijm, it in¬joins not only every Member in every Congregation to at¬tend the Miniftry of his own Pallor, but it likewife in¬joins every Minifler in every Congregation to be a faithfulSteward of the Myfteries of God. Hence I think it'very evident, that the Separation condemned by thisfaithful AfTembly, is a Separation from fuch Minillerswho are holding theTeftimony of Jefusdelivered to hisChurch and People in this Land.And the faid Mr. Wilson, when vindicating 1our Reformers, the ‘D 'treSlory, and Fel- 1hwjhif-Meetings, from Mr. Currie’s ma¬licious and groundlefs Alperfions thrownon them, argues thus,I have now done with the Exceptions that our Au¬thor lays againft our Covenants, and the Proceedings 1of our reforming Period with reference unto them. I ]ihall bow briefly confider his Exceptions againft fome o-tfler Afts of the faid Period, which he brings as In¬fiances of the Faults, Failings, bad and tyrannical AdisOf our covenanting Period. The firft that I mention is jthe Account that our Author gives us of a Claufe inthe Aflembly’s Direflory, 24- 1647. for fecret |and private Worlhip, and mutual Edification, {sV. Ourr 5 3n Uthor mentions only the Dtregion; but, inder to underftand it, ’tis neceffary that I firft tran-|i -ibe their fixth, viz.. “ At Family-worlbip, a fpccial' Care is to be had, that each Family keep by them-felves: Neither requiring, inviting, nor admittingPerlbns from diverfe Families; unlefs it be tholewho are lodged with them, or, at Meal, or other-wife with them upon fome lawful Occafion.” ThenHows the feventh Article mentioned by our'Author,“ Whatfoever hath been the Eftefts and Fruits ofMeetings of Perfons of diverfe Families, in the Timesof Corruption or Trouble (in which Cafes jmanyThings are commendable, which otherwife are nottolerable) yet, when God hath bleffed us with Peaceand Purity of the Goljpel, fuch Meetings of Perfonsof diverfe Families (except in Cafes mentioned inthefe Dire&ions) are to be difapproved, as tendingto the Hindrance of the religious Exercife of eachFamily by itfelf, to the Prejudice of the- pubiickMiniitry, cV.” Our Author gives it as hisOpinion,it in the above Direftion that AfTembly declared a-j ainft Fcllowfhip meetings for Prayer avd ChriHian Con-•ice. I know not by what Spirit our Author is Jediis Manner of Writing; there cannot be a more un-ift Charge laid, againft an Afl’embly than this that is.id againft the excellent Dire&ions that this Affemblyive for private and fecret Worlhip. Any who is notllind may fee from the above Articles, that the Dire-sion here given l>y the. Aft'embly is. That each Familyjy itfelf (hould Keep up the Worlhip of God ; and thatphich is condemned is, the Meeting of Perfons of diverfeamiljes together, to the Hindrance of the religious Ex-rcife of each Family by it/el/i and this is what they hadood Reafon to condemn, as having a Tendency to all:ie bad Effefts that they mention. Our Author tells usrom Guthrie in his Memoirs, That the above Aft or-ondufion was unanimoully gone into by feveral tmi-Minifters, fome of whom he mentions, who metC 6 3to confer about that Affair in Mr. Henderjbn's Chaml1639: That is, An Ad of theAffembiy 1647 w:concluded by feveral Minifters m 1639, even feveYears before it w >s enaded. Our Author tells us thjStory from Guthries Memoirs. Several of his Retders, and thefe none of the weakeit, have thereby beejimpofed upon, and thought that our Author told theithis Story from one of thefe eminent Minifters, MiJames or Mr. William Guthrie: But, to uudeceiithem, I muft inform them, that this Guthrie was 01Mr. Benry Guthrie, rvho made a confiderable Profeflioiof Zeal for our Reformation before the Year 1662but at that Time he complied with Prelacy, and received the Bifhoprick of Dunkeld as his Reward in thiYear 1665. I have fometimes made ufe of his Memoirs for clearing or confirming fome hiftorical Fadsbut in this Place * the Bilhop tells us a very inconfiftemStory, <vix. Some (fays he) came from England, whcwere fuppofed to favour the ErcrwntHical Way ; and <jfthers likewife came from Ireland, who had betakenthemfeives to Conventicles, having forfaken the publicHAffemblies of the Church in Ireland: And he tells us,that they fet up thofe Conventicles which they calledprivate Meetings \xsScotland-, and that they were coun¬tenanced by Mr. David Dickfott, Mr. Samuel Ruther*forded others: But that the fbundeft of the M inifters, Mr,Ramfay, Mr. Alexander Mender/on and others (the Bilhopthinks fit to name himfelf among them) were deeplyaffected with the faid Conventicles, doubting that theCourfe might lead so Brovonifm’, and therefore theypurpqfed to have an Ad of Affembly in the Year 1639again it the fame ; but Mr. Dickfcm and Mr. Rutherfordoppofed the Motion, and, inftead thereof, moved for aConference, that Brethren might unite upon the Que-ftion; and that hereupon a Conference was held inMr. Benderfoa s Chamber, wherein the above-men¬tioned Conclufion was taken. He likewife reports,Chat* Memoirs, p. 67.[ 7 3d! the Keepers of the faid Conventicles or private| :tings having become more numerous and bold, ther'tieral Aflembly at Aberdeen in the Year 1640 took|'1| Matter into Confideration; and that Mr. Dickfoni Mr. Rutherford pleaded vehemently for the faid|i iventicles, till Mr. Guthrie (that is, the Bifhop him-li) took the Paper out of his Pocket, which had beenI ed by Mr. Henderfan and Mr, Dickfon in all tfceifI'j nes: And then, fays the Bijhop, Mr. Dickfon was[lit; whereupon the A3 pail unanimoufly againftlate Meetings.I us every Body may fee that the above Account given| the Bifiop is both falfe and inconfiftent; there wasI fuch Aft as he reports pail at the Aifembly atrdeen 1640. No Body that know the Charafters ofHers Rutherford and Dickfon will believe that theylured the Brownii'lical'N&y, or that they would op-nn an Affembly a Conclufion figned with their ownnds: It is plain that the perfidious Prelate has laidwhole Story with a Defign to defame theie excellentworthy Men ; and it is likewife plain that thergi no fuch Meeting in Henderfaris Chamber, conclud-an Article of our Direftory, which had nbt a Being1647, that is, feven Years thereafter: Therefore,our Author had not a Defign to impofe upon thejlprld when he cites Guthrie's Memoirs, he has quotedj|i without any Manner of Judgment or Confulera-Dur Author tells us. He is far from condemningvate Meetings for Prayer and Conference; he owns,t Bellowihip meetings, if rightly managed, are pro¬file : But in the mean Time he infills only upon theufe of them ; he never tells us wherein they are pro¬file. He gives us a Quotation from Mr. DurhamScandal, Part 3. Chap. 15. and we have only the: Half of. what Mr. Durham fays upon Fellowlhip-etings, namely, what he fays upon the Abufe oflm‘; but what is faid by that great Man upon ther s ]Ulefulncfs of f'ich Meetings, is entirely dropt by oiAuthor: I ibail leave it to the Reader to look into MiDurham himfeif. I (hall only add. It is an unfair,a very cunning Way of dealing, to commend the Pr;tfice of any Thing as profitable and ufeful, and yet t^infill only upon the Abufes of the Practice, without giving any Inilances of the Profitablenefs or Ukfulnelthereof.ExtraSed from 'Mr. William Wilson’s Defencethe Refo>motion Principles of the Church ^"ScotlandPages 198, 199, 305, 306. 307, 308.jLdvertifement.The following Books are to be Sold at George Piton’s Shop in Linlithgow.I. A Col!e<flion of feveral remarkable and valuableSermons, Speeches and Exhortations, preached bilour Covenanting Reformers, at the renewing of thfCovenants, from 1638,' to 1650, explaining and anplying the Covenants, and anfwerirg Scruples and!Objeftionsagainft the fame; very fealonable and nefcelTary for thefe Times.II. The Lawfulnefs and Duty of Separation from coilrupt Minifters, and Objrclions explained and vindidicated, by Mr. James Fraser of late Min"fter of the Gofpel at Culrojs.III. The Rules and Direflions for Fellowfhip Meetingsby. Mr. IValter hmith, and Mr. John Hepburn.IV. A Vindication of Felhjwfhip Meetings, by Mr. JohBroun, both which contains Scripture Warrants fo|the (aid Meetings.