r •JHtetdtfs ol CmtbnsatiousJAMES WILSON, alias M‘LUSKY,During the time he was under sentence of Death,WHO WAS EXECUTED AT GLASGOW,On the 4th of June, 1823,For the crime of house-breaking and theft,  urn* IjJn&Ksijrtr at Jjfe oton Acquest,IN HOPE THAT HIS UNTIMELY AND IGNOMINIOUS DEATHMIGHT OPERATE AS A WARNING TO HIS COMPAN¬IONS IN CRIME, AND FELLOW-SINNERS.GLASGOW,Printed by Andrew Young, 150, Trongate,FOR ARCHIBALD LANG, 6, WILSON-STREET.1823./SKETCHESOFCONVERSATIONS, &c.The parents of the unfortunate James M'Lusky be¬longed to the North of Ireland. About twenty yearsago they came to this country, and resided for sometime at Lochwinnoch, where he was born. His fatherand mother lived a very unhappy life, and about tenyears ago they parted. His father then took up with awoman of bad character, and shortly after having beenseen in her company drinking ardent spirits, was founddead in a field His mother moved alternately to Barr¬head, Linwood, and Blantyre; and it appears, that asJames grew in years, dispositions and inclinations of theworst kind began to shew themselves in his characterand conduct. An act of dishonesty committed by himat Lochwinnoch was the cause of his coming to Glas¬gow, where he soon formed an acquaintance with a ladof the name of Johnston, which helped to confirm himin his evil courses, and paved the way to his ruin. Itappears that he soon became hardened in iniquity, nei¬ther fearing God, nor regarding man,—he went on alter¬nately committing crime, and suffering punishment, tillhe was guilty of that for which he was doomed to die.My first visit to him took place a lew days after hehad received the awful sentence of death. He appear¬ed to be sensible of his unhappy condition, and express¬ed an anxious wash for religious instruction. The firstquestion I proposed to him was, Are you guilty of thecrime for which you are condemned to suffer death ?He immediately replied,11 Yes, I acknowledge my guilt.”3I then made some inquiry respecting his former courseof life, and whether or not he had been favoured witha religious education? He very frankly told me hehad lived an abominable and very wicked life, and neverhad enjoyed the privilege of any religious instruction.Of him, it might with propriety be said, “ no man caredfor his soul.” He was suffered to run on in the career otcrime, without any one to check him in his destructiveand wayward course.—His relations, he said, were Ro¬man Catholics, and wished him to receive the visits ofMr. S. the Roman Catholic Priest, but these he posi¬tively refused, and declared his determination to seekthe pardon of his sins from Jesus Christ alone. He lis¬tened with intense eagerness to the varied statementsgiven him of the plan of salvation, through faith in theRedeemer’s blood. His soul seemed to mourn deeplyover its own vileness and pollution, and bitterly lament¬ed his past wickedness, both of heart and of life. Onone occasion, he said to me, “ O Sir, that I had my lifeto live over again.” Stop, James, said I, remember thatif life was granted you, unless your heart is changed, bythe grace of God, it is more than probable you wouldjust return to your old courses again. True, said he,I now see that nothing short of that change of heartwill do—I was afraid lest he should rest satisfied withmere efforts to obtain the favour of God, and trust inthese, or in a confused and indefinite faith in the atone¬ment of Jesus Christ. I pointed out to him the caseof the Philippian jailor, as recorded in the 16th chapterof the Acts of.the Apostles, where an answer is givento the poor alarmed sinner, who is inquiring, “ Whatmust I do to be saved?” I also directed him for encour¬agement to the account given of the Canaanitish woman,(in the l.'Jth chapter of the Gospel by Matthew,) who,after many seeming repulses, was at last successful.However, I endeavoured to guard him against expect¬ing the blessings of salvation on account of his prayers,or any worth in them, saying, your importunity mustbe that of a poor needy beggar, who earnestly imploresA 24a gift. I spoke of the evidences by which he mightascertain his interest in the blood of Christ; familiarizingthese, by shewing him the effects that would followfrom the reception of a-free pardon from his Sovereign;that immediately his doom would be reversed, and de¬liverance from his dungeon follow as a matter of course.By a variety of other allusions, the glorious liberty ofthe Gospel was pointed out to him, as being a com¬plete deliverance from the guilt of his past crimes,and the gracious communication of a Divine nature,founded upon the infinite merits of the Lord Jesus Christ,and evidenced by a consciousness of the love of Godto his own soul. Now, it might with propriety be saidof him, as of Saul of Tarsus, after he was arrested inhis career of sin and rebellion against God, “ Beholdhe prayeth!” I felt my heart sweetly drawn out inprayer and conversation with him, and have listened, orrather joined, in those fervent breathings of his wound¬ed spirit, which were accompanied with strong cries andtears. The simplicity and scriptural manner in whichhe poured out his soul to God, in behalf of himself, hismother, his brothers, and his unfortunate companion insuffering, quite affected me. Surely in such a scene asthis, those who have “ tasted that the Lord is gracious”recognise, as it were, the Good Shepherd taking hold of .the sheep that had gone astray in the wilderness, layingit upon his shoulders, rejoicing, and calling together hisfriends and neighbours, saying, “ Rejoice with me, forI have found the sheep which was lost,” Luke xv. 6. *In a scene like this, you see the prodigal come to him¬self; you hear him bewailing his folly and sin, and seekingfor pardon and acceptance. Such a scene is productiveof joy on earth, and joy in heaven, for “ there is joyin the presence of the angels of God, over one sinnerthat repenteth.” If I may judge from his own testi¬mony, I am decidedly of opinion, that a Divine changehad taken place in the mind of poor James. A deeploathing of himself on account of his past wickedness,an earnest wish that it had been in his power to makereparation for the injuries he had done to society, andthe many sighs breathed to Heaven, that his untimelyand ignominious death might operate as a warning tohis companions in crime, and fellow-sinners, bespokethe existence of that “ godly sorrow, that worketh re¬pentance unto salvation, not to be repented of,” 2 Cor,vii. 10!He wished the world to know his abhorrence of him¬self on account of his sin, and also how suitable to hiscase he had found the Gospel to be. The cheering as¬surance given by our Lord to the thief on the cross, inanswer to his prayer, seemed to afford him peculiarpleasure. Oh! said he, how different are my feelingsin this cell, when employed in reading the Word of God,and prayer, to what they were when I was engaged inthe miseries, and madness, of the service of Satan. Heoften expressed his gratitude to God for affording himthe means of knowing his will, and leading him to dis¬cover that it was a “ faithful saying, and worthy of allacceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world tosave sinners, even the chief.” On one occasion when Icalled, he mentioned that he had been reading the 3dchapter of the Prophecies by Zechariah, and pointedparticularly to the latter clause of the 2nd verse, as ap¬plicable to his case: This was the light in which henow viewed himself, “A brand plucked out of the fire;”snatched by infinite and Divine mercy from the veryverge of eternal ruin. This passage furnished us witha topic of conversation, and while I was endeavouringto lay open before him the treasury of Divine love, asunfolded in the scheme of human redemption, his wholesoul seemed filled with gratitude, and lost in wonder,love, and praise. On seeing his late companion in theChapel, who was tried with him, and liberated from thebar for want of evidence, and now recommitted, he feltmuch pain, and addressed him with much affection,solemnly warning him of his danger, and urging himto flee from the wrath to come. Sometimes he com¬plained that his mind was distressed with wicked andA 36twandering thoughts, but added, I lift up ray heart toGod in prayer, and then I find rest.The Sabbath evening before he suffered I visited hiscell. He said “ this has been the best Sabbath I everspent on earth; and then expressed his hope of spendingan everlasting Sabbath in heaven.”He told me he had addressed the Prisoners in theChapel, after the service was concluded. I was told byothers that were present, that it was a very affectingscene: the poor creatures were much agitated, and manyof them wept. “ O that they were wise, that they under¬stood this, that they would consider their latter end.” Henow said^»“ I intend to spend this night in reading andprayer—I sleep but little—I generally hear the birds be¬gin their singing, and see the sweet light of day enlighten¬ing my dungeon before I think of sleep.” He mentionedalso, that the 14th chapter of the gospel by John, hadvbeen .blessed to his spiritual comfort, and then repeatedthe 1st verse, “ Let not your hearts be troubled,” &c.Previous to my leaving him, he requested me to sing aHymn, and while we sung these lines,Number’d among thy people, Iy Expect with joy thy face to see,Because thou didst for sinners die:Jesus, in death remember me.he appeared much elated and full of the spirit of de¬votion.Before we parted, he said, I love every body: surelythis must spring from the love of God. I cannot explainto you my state qt present, but I feel as if I could gladlydie to-night. The address which he delivered on Sab¬bath in the Chapel to his fellow-prisoners, was produc¬tive of a letter from one of his former companions, an ex¬tract from which we shall here insert“ Dear Comrade,I hope you will forgive me troubling you with thesefew lines; for since I heard what you said on Sunday, ithas caused me a great deal of sorrow and thought. Dear# *\\James, at this present time, my real opinion is, that whatI have seen and heard from yo^, will have a lasting im¬pression on my memory as long as I live.”This letter is signed John Gilchrist, and wfe join in pray¬ing with poor James, that the impression the writer speaksof, may be as a “ nail fastened in a sure place, by themaster of assemblies.”—Being under the necessity ofleaving town on the Monday previous to his execution, Icalled upon him to take a last farewell. It was a solemnseason—an affecting interview. He expressed muchgratitude for the anxiety that had been shewn for hiseternal welfare. What should I have been, said he, if ithad not been your counsels, and that of your brethrenwho kindly afforded me instruction? I felt much satisfied \'that I could leave him indulging the pleasing hope, thtvtin a few days his spirit would mingle with the spirit^those who have washed their robes and made them white. *in the blood of the Lamb. . * • 'From a Gentleman who was with him the day b*- \fore he suffered, we learn, that he continued to egressunshaken confidence in God; and as the period xhf'ewnear, which wa^ to terminate his existence in this ' (world, he was enabled to look forward to it with somedegree of composure. On the morning of his execution,however, he became much agitated, and on being inter¬rogated as to the cause, he said he had been seizedwith a considerable degree of horror, at the • nearprospect of suffering a violent, painful, and ignominiousdeath. These were the feelings of natureK and it is' noway surprising, that they should thus operate. He wagnot now the hardened, thoughtless, daring offender.Deep sorrow for his past conduct had broken his spirit;intense eagerness, to improve the few remaining days hehad to live in this world, had wasted his strength. Thiiwill easily account for the tremour that pervaded his whole . Vframe; and less or more, at intervals, shewed itself fromthis period, till his spirit had taken its flight to theWernalworld. . - -About two o’clock, he (along with his companidfrV.8in suffering,) entered the Court Hall, decently dressed,when Psalms were sung, a portion of Scripture read,and prayer offered up in behalf of the dying men.—Theyreturned their best thanks to the Magistrates, Ministers,and Mr. M'Gregor the jailor, for their humanity andkindness during their confinement. About three o’clock,they ascended the platform, when they again spent ashort time in prayer, and after the fatal cords were ad¬justed, a handkerchief was dropped as a signal that theywere ready, and they were launched into eternity.Perhaps, some may ask “ Why was this Narrativepublished?” In answer I would say; to shew the richesof Divine grace, in the salvation of a wicked profligateyouth, who had early filled up the measure of his ini¬quities.Some indeed may be ready to say, You encouragesinners to continue in crime, by such representations ofthe astonishing grace of God to a condemned malefactor,and you have not substantial evidence to judge of the re¬ality of the change professed to be wrought.” As to thefirst objection, I would answer, We denounce as hor¬ribly impious, the doctrine that teacheth to sin thatgrace may abound. Such presumptuous transgressors are,we believe, often cut off in their crimes, having no spacefor repentance, nor grace of penitence given. They just¬ly provoke God’s righteous indignation, and he sometimeswounds the hairy scalp of such daring rebels, by the glit¬tering sword of his vengeance. But I would ask suchobjectors, what they would have us to say to a poorwretched criminal who smites upon his breast, saying,God be merciful to me a sinner. Should we talk tohim in the strange and unscriptural way of makingatonement to God for his transgression? Surely not. Whocan make atonement to God for human guilt? No man,nor all the men upon earth : for no man can redeem hisbrother, or give to God a ransom for his soul. The re¬demption of the soul is so precious, that nothing lessthan the blood of Christ can redeem us from the9guilt, the power, and the pollution of sin. And we be¬lieve we are scripturally warranted to say, to every poorpenitent, “ through this man (Christ Jesus) is preachedunto you the forgiveness of sins, and by him all that be¬lieve are justified from all things, from which they couldnot be justified by the law of Moses,’’ Acts xiii. 38. Asto the evidence of good works, confirming and provingthe genuineness of the change, these are certainly im¬portant, where they can be shewn, but in the case of aperson incarcerated in a dungeon, we can have few ofthose external fruits of righteousness. Yet we can tellthe altered language,—we can feel the warmth, and seethe light of the renewed mind,—we can trace the opera¬tions of the Spirit of God, in the somewhat singular anduncouth lispings of a child of grace. We think we candistinguish between a heart smitten by natural grief andshame, yet retaining its close reservedness, and groppingits way to comfort, by a bare, and we fear, unwarrant¬ed trust in the mercy of God; and one whose heart rollsits copious tide of penitential sorrow, in all the fulnessand freeness of a flowing brook. James was simple asa child, and as far as we can judge by his spirit and tem¬per, we believe that his heart was divinely smitten, andgraciously healed; and we rejoice, “ yea and will re¬joice,’’ in the hope that his awful punishment was over¬ruled by the God of all grace, in bringing him to bowat the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to close in withthe offers of mercy.Again, it is published at the request of poor Jameshimself, in hope that it might operate as a warningto his companions in crime, and fellov -sinners. Hewished them to know the deep sorrow he then felt,for having so long lived in rebellion against God, and ininjuring his fellow-men. He was desirous of speaking tothem from the verge of the grave, warning them againstthe misery into which he had plunged himself, and toponder well the paths of their feet, lest iniquity shouldprove their overthrow. You see that, by early habits ofdrunkenness, and debauchery, connected with Sabbath-■N10breaking, gambling, and dishonesty, he was led onfrom one degree of vice to another, till he was doomedto die an ignominious death.—If any of the above de¬scription of character should cast their eyes over thesepages, we would say to them, with all the earnestness ofentreaty, “ Because there is wrath, beware lest he takethee away with his stroke, then a great ransom cannotdeliver thee,” Job xxxvi. 18. You cannot but be aware,that the courses you pursue are full of misery andwretchedness. The way of transgressors is hard; andthere is no peace to the wicked, saith God. It is saidof such as you, in the greatness of their folly they goastray, and do not live out half their days—sentenceagainst your evil works has gone forth, and may withrespect to you be executed speedily. O, then hearkento the voice of God in his word: “ Wisdom crieth with¬out; she uttereth her voice in the streets, she crieth inthe chief place of concourse, in the opening of the gates:in the city she uttereth her words, saying,—How long,ye simple ones will ye love simplicity, and the scornersdelight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?Turn ye at my reproof; behold, I will pour out my Spiritupon you, I will make known my words unto you,Prov. i. 20.To youth, in general, we would say, Guard againstthe society of those who are “ haters of that which isgood.” You live in a world where you are exposed tomany temptations. Your own heart is deceitful and des¬perately wicked. Many there are who lie in wait to de¬ceive, and draw you into the vortex of ruin. Learn, inall your ways, to acknowledge God, and he will directyour steps. Seek his direction—Seek his protection, thatit may be well with you in time and for ever. Rememberthere is a high responsibility connected with the privilegesyou enjoy. Your lot has been cast in a land where theGospel is published in its purity—where you have everyopportunity of knowing the will of God, and the wayhe hath revealed for the forgiveness of the guilty, andthe recovery of lost sinners. If such opportunities are11not improved—but on the contrary, treated with neglect—the consequences must at last be awful. God hathappointed a day in which he will judge the world in righ¬teousness: That day hurries on apace: And we must allstand before the judgment-seat of Christ. Acquaint nowyourselves with him, and be at peace, that thereby goodmay come unto you.Again, we remark, that the fate of this youth oughtto act as a stimulus to parents in the discharge of thoseduties they owe to their children. Poor M'Lusky wasnot favoured with parental admonition. No guardianhand directed his feet in the way of peace. Thrownupon the current of accidents—Left, without control, tofollow his own depraved inclinations, he wrought iniquitywith greediness. And, at present, notwithstanding themuch that is doing in order to promote the present andeternal interests of the young and rising generation, is itnot lamentable to see the torrent of iniquity that yet runsdown our streets? The number of youthful transgressorsis great. They are daringly impious; neither afraid, norashamed to declare that they have not the fear of Godbefore their eyes. Now we are afraid that much of theweight of that guilt that attaches to such contempt ofGod’s law, must fall on the heads of parents and guar¬dians of youth. We know well that you cannot changetheir hearts; and we are also aware, that, in some cases,the solemn admonitions, the pious example, the prayersand tears of affectionate parents, have all been disregard¬ed: But do not suppose that this will exculpate you fromthe guilt inseparable from the neglect of those duties thatGod has imposed upon you, with regard to your childrenand those under your care. An important trust is com¬mitted to you, and woe be to you, if you are found un¬faithful. Be persuaded, then, to give yourselves first tothe Lord. Bring your children under the sound of theGospel. Endeavour to put the words of eternal life intotheir hands. Pray with them, and for them; and God,even your own God, will bless you.To conclude: another cause to which we attribute the; A.-I12rapid progress of youthful delinquency, in such large andpopulous cities as this, is the existence and increase oflow tippling pot-houses. Oh! what scenes of wickednessare acted in these. Even on the Lord’s day, in manyparts of this city, the serious and well-disposed part of thecommunity cannot walk to the house of God, to join inthe solemn services of the sanctuary, without having theirears assailed, and their feelings outraged, with the lan¬guage of hell, and the disgusting roar of the drunkardand debauchee. These are hot-beds of vice, nurseriesof the wicked one. Surely those who can continue tolive and enjoy themselves in such haunts of wretchedness,must be far fallen below the common level of human de¬pravity. Oh ! what an awful account will such have torender at the great day of retribution. They are ruiningsouls. The blood of many a youth, we fear, will be foundin their skirts; and, with regard to themselves, they aretreasuring up wrath against the day of wrath, and therevelation of the righteous judgment of God.—Hearken,then, to the voice of mercy, ye stout-hearted and farfrom righteousness, that ye may escape all those thingsthat shall assuredly overwhelm the impenitent; and at lastmay you, with confidence, stand before the Son of man.There are other causes of the progress of vice, to whichwe might allude, but cannot now.We hope none of the characters alluded to, will con¬sider us as actuated by any other feelings towards themthan those of love to their souls; and we pray God thatwhat has been written may be blessed for their good,and we shall be thankful.Price—One Penny.*ANDREW YOUNGPrinier, Glasgow.