THEDREAMER’S |«ICTIO\ARY,ORFUTURE REVEALER,LlflKXED LOK I HE BOf>K8Eri’K23er/^eu/t; .THEDREAMER’S DICTIONARYOBFUTURE REVEALER,FOUND IN THE ARK OFA LATE CELEBRATED WIZARD.GLASGOW;PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.to xiu. 3Hi' 'n a <■■■■.XMMWj u TA hi; 0 ■ HTHE DREAMER’S DICTIONARY.— — —A-bed. -To dream that you are in bed betokensi good health, but, beware! for some one wishes to: injure you.Abuse. To dream that you are abused or insultedis a sure sign that you will have a dispute with somej person.Abroad. If you dream that you are in a foreigni country, some one who is making money abroad is! likely to bequeath a fortune to you.Acquaintance. To dream you fight with any per-i son is a sign of strife from a secret enemy.Altar. To dream that you are at the altar be-I tokens joy and gladness; if at the Hymeneal altar,; your marriage will be deferred.Angels. To dream of angels is a sign that somei one is near you—the remaining part of your dream' will prove true, be therefore mindful of it; if youi are in love, nothing can be more favourable, and youri undertakings wifi prosper.Anger. To dream that you are angry with any onei denotes that you have many enemies, and that somei evil design is formed against your happiness; if youi are in love, some rival is slandering you to youri sweetheart; if with your spouse, disgrace threatens; you. If you dream of another person in a passioni with you, it is more favourable, but betokens somei unpleasant misfortune is about to happen to you ; if; you are angry with your sweetheart, he will fall sick,i and you will experience loss.Anxiety. To dream that you are anxious to accom¬plish any project denotes that you would soon tis*4 THE DREAMER’S DICTIONARY.of it ; to think your mind is anxious or uneasy ii |a sign some one wishes to do you a favour.Ants. To dream of ants signifies a covetous mind ‘ito see ants busy, foretells that your industry will bcrowned with success ; if they appear to he devouredby other animals, some secret enemy is trying truin you ; if you are sick when you dream of ants lyour recovery will be slow, but certain.Apples. To dream of seeing apples, and they ar iripe and sweet, is a sure sign of prosperity; if the* >are sour, it signifies that sorrow and unhappiness ar*likely to befall you.Arms. To dream that yoUr arms are weak shew,*that your health or fortune will decline ; if they ap tpear to be strong, you will meet with unexpectecprosperity; if your arms are broken, you will losisome dear friend; if your right arm is brokeniyou will lose a near male relation ; if the left, efemale.Ass. To dream that you are riding on an ass sig¬nifies that you will be guilty of some foolish action;if you see him feeding, your servants will be faithful.if you are driving him, you will be freed from trouble tif he runs after you, some wag will occasion a laugh,against you; if he appears loaded, your fortune willadvance.Back. If you dream that your back is broken, youwill meet with some loss ; if it grows stronger, youtwill receive an unexpected addition to your fortune;to dream of the back bone indicates long life andhappiness in your children.Bathing. To dream that you are bathing in thetea, and no men in water, signifies that you willTHE DKKAMETj's DICTIONAET,snever be married ; but if you are in company witione of the lords of the creation, you will soon b-married and live happily ; if, however, you are infresh water, your lover will deceive you.Battle. If you dream you see a battle, beware cAsecret enemies, wrho will endeavour to hurt you ; ifyou are in love your sweetheart is falsaBeef. To dream of beef denotes the death of afriend or relation,—in love it denotes disappoint¬ment.Bees. To dream you see bees at work signifiesthat your industry will be successful; if they areflying about, bad reports will be spread of you ; ifthey sting you, you will suffer loss either of yourgoods or reputation.Birds. To dream you hear birds singing is a signof happiness ; if you are married, s mething willhappen much to the advantage of your family; itis a sign of great success in business ; to see themfly denotes you will soon go a long journey, whichwill be pleasant and prosperous; to dream you catchthem, signifies some unexpected good fortune; ifthey are beautiful, the success will be the greater;to dream you find an empty nest denotes losses andgreat uneasiness.Bread. To dream you see a quantity of bread de¬notes great success in life ; to dream of eating bread,denotes many friends who will do you kindness.Bridge. To dream you are going over a bridgeand meet with no interruption, you will go throughlife in a prosperous manner ; if any thing impedesyou, you will meet with many obstacles in the world.Brushing. If you dream that you are brushing6 !JHF. dreamer’s dictionary.dusty clothes, it is a sign that a serious il'ness ivillovertake you ; but if you see another brushing them,it betokens prosperity in life.Buried Alive. If you dream you are buried alive,it shews you are in danger of being unhappy andunfortunate during your life.Candle. To dream that you see a candle burningdenotes that your lover is jealous; but if it is notburning, your sweetheart adores you.Cards. To dream you are playing at cards denotesthat you will soon be in love, if you are not so al¬ready ; if you hold a great many court cards, youwill soon be married and happy.Cats. To dream of cats denotes much disappoint¬ment to a lover—your sweetheart is unfaithful ; ifmu have servants, they will rob you; a cat mean-s alurking enemy.Children. To dream you have children is a signthat you will be happy in your family; if one ormore of them die, you will meet with some misfor¬tune.Cherries. To dream of cherries betokens disap¬pointments in life, vexations in marriage, falsehoodin love, and deceilful pleasure; but if you climbthe tree, a sure, speedy, and unexpected advance¬ment in life is certain to happen to you.Coach. To dream of riding in a coach denotes thatyou will love idleness, and are given to pride ; todream of coming out of a coach signifies that dis¬grace threatens you, and great caution is neces¬sary*f'jtweJ-. To dream you see a comet is ominous ofpltta'iifc. famine, and death ; to the lover it for«-TUB SRBAXBSB DICTIONABT. 1uf . ''15 *-* - K ■+* ' \ibodes an entire frustration of his hopes ; to thefarmer, failure of crops; and to the seaman, stormsand shipwreck.Cor*. To dream you are gathering ripe com de¬notes success in your enterprise; but if it is blightedor mildewed, you will be a great loser. .Corns. To dream that you hare corns on yourlittle toes, and that you experience great pain inwalking, denotes that you will hare to travel muchbefore you are permanently employed, but if theydon t hurt you, your lover intends to accompany youon a pleasure excursion; if you are married, the firstis a sign that you will have twin-brothers; if thesecond, a law-suit about a little piece of house-pro¬perty.Currants. To dream of black currants denotesgreat happiness in the married state; if you dreamyeu are pulling them, it is certain you will have alarge family, who will all do well: but if the cur¬rants are red, beware of false friends, those whomyou little expect, for they will do you harm if theypossibly can.Dancing. To dream you are dansing at a ballforetells you will soon receive some news from along absent friend ; to the sailor, a successful voyage;to married persons, increase of children; to thosein trade, much business; and to young people, ahappy marriage.Darkness. To dream you are in the dark is atoken of affliction, and loss in trade; to get out ofdarkness into light, is a sign of rising to eminence,V ef escaping out of difficulties.Death. To dream you are dead denotes a speedy8 TBl DMAUBB'B DTCTT05ART.marriage and auccess in all your undertakings; tothe married, it promises young children, who willbe dutiful and give great eomfort; to dream you Isee another person dead, denotes ill usage from rfriends ; if you are in lore, your sweetheart will |prove false ; if you are in trade, sharpers will take *you in; if a fanner, you will lose money by horses,and be waylaid as you return from market.Debt. To dream you 'are in debt and pursuedby officers, denotes that you will fall into some un¬expected difficulties, or great danger.Dei)il. To dream you see the devil without fearforetells you will get the better of your adversaryif you are frightened, you will be under somelanger.Dogs. To dream of dogs that belong to us signifiessuccess in our pursuits; but if we dream of thosebelonging to others, dangerous enemies.Drun/r. If you dream of being intoxicated, it isjure that some one is slandering you, but a sincerefriend, by his interference, destroys their inveteratemalice. JEagle. To dream of seeing an eagle soaring highis a good omen to those who have great undertakingson hand ; but to dream that an eagle alights uponus, signifies mischance.Eating. To dream you are eating denotes profitand success in your present enterprise; a loathingof victuals is a sign of disunion in your family.Errand. To dream that you are running an er¬rand, and that one of your shoes comes off, is a signthat you will lose a sincere friend; if you succeedaccomnlishing your message without any accident,vnili-JirbTHB DREAMER’S DICTIONARY. 9i hen there is the greatest prosperity in store for you,o lose no opportunity of lawfully bettering your con-; lition in life.Fever. To dream you are in a ferer betokens long^jood health ; if you have a leg amputated, you areittbout to get a partner with money ; if you are maried, it is the loss of one you fondly love.Fields. To dream you are in green fields is a veryIvavourable signin love, it denotes success andsappiness; to the tradesman, success and riches;and to the farmer, plenty; if you are soliciting aIvavour, it portends you will obtain it.Fighting. To dream you are fighting denotes muchippposition to your wishes, with loss of character.Fire. To dream of fire denotes health and happi-naess; to the lover, marriage with the object of theitiWFections, and many children; also that you will beihngry with some one for a trifle. To dream oli burning lights portends dreadful accidents to thedreamer. If a sick person sees a fire extinguished,iit is a presage of death. If a person on board ajship dreams he sees a light a great way off, it be-.tokens a fair wind and a safe arrival. To dreamtof seeing lighted torches and branches of fire de-oscending from heaven, signifies quarrelling, disap-:-pointment, and adversities. To dream you see a).fire sparkling denotes hasty news and anger; tondream of seeing houses on fire, denotes some un-iipleasant news will soon arrive ; to dream you arenin the midst of a fire, and feel pain from it, pre-usages envy and displeasure. To dream that you•ihold a lighted torch in your hand, shews you willsj gain honour and respect from all persons. To dreamHt THB DREAMEB*S DICTIONARY.that you kindle a fire without much trouble, and it:burns directly, shews that your, children will befortunate; hut if yon kindle a fire with much trouble,and it is extinguished presently, shews dishonour,especially to women. To dream you see a ship on .fire at sea, denotes great losses in business.Fishing. To dream you are fishing is a sign of .sorrow and trouble; if you catch any fish, you willhe successful in love and business; if they slip outof your hand after you hare caught them, it is asign some pretended friend will deceive you.Flowers. To dream you are gathering flowers is avery favourable omen, and is a sign you will thrivein every thing you undertake; that you will beSuccessful in love, marry happily, and have beautifulchildren.Fruit. Almonds indicate difficulties, loss of liberty,and deceit in love.Fortune. To dream you make a sudden fortunemi a bad omen; to the tradesman, it forebodes lossesin trade, quarrelling with his creditors, and loss ofliberty.Funeral. To dream you are busily employed inburying a person denotes a very speedy marriage,and that, ere long, you will hear of the death or im¬prisonment of some near relation or esteemed friend.Garden. To dream you are walking in a gardendenotes your advancement to fortune; if you aregathering the produce of it, you will be happy inmarriage, and have a large family; it betokens greatsuccess to the lover, and increase of business to thetradesman.Geese. To dream of geese is a sign of good; youTHE DREAMER’S DICTfONARY. llmay expect to s6e an absent friend soon; to thedreamer, they denote success and riches.Gifts. To dream you have anything given to youis a sign that some good is about to happen to you.Glass. To dream of glass denotes bad success invarious undertakings; if you break it, it warns youof some unforeseen misfortune, the death of yourwife, or husband, or children.Gold. If you dream of gold, it is a very goodomen ; it denotes success in your present undertak¬ings after encountering numerous difficulties.Gooseberries. If you dream of gooseberries grow¬ing on the bush, they denote that you will havea numerous family, and great success in your pre¬sent undertakings; but if they are baked, greattrouble is near at hand, so prepare for a sick-bed.Grapes. To dream of white grape* betokens fe^licity in marriage, and success in trade; but if theyare purple, it denotes great misery in the matrimonialstate ; to the tradesman, great distress and loss ofbusiness-Grase. To dream of being buried is a sign youshall die very poor.Guns. To dream you see or hear guns firing fore¬tells much misery ,• if you fire them, you will have aquarrel; if they are discharged at you, you will beexposed to many dangers.Hail. To dream of hail denotes sorrow and muchgrief.Hair. To dream that you are brushing or comb¬ing your hair portends success in love, trade, orgome other pursuit; it also signifies riches; to dreamthat your hair has grown so long that it hangs loose*2 TB.'k DMEAMBRS DICTION ART.over your shoulders denotes that one superior toyourself adores you; but if *he hair is red, it denotesthat you have enemies.Hanging. Dreaming you see people hanged, orthat you are to be executed yourself, is a sign youwill, by marriage, rise above your present condition,or a favour will be asked by one in needy circum¬stances from you.Hatred. Dreaming of being hated by friends orfoes is a bad omen.Harrem. To dream you see white horses in theharrows is a swe sign of good news; if they areblack, deep distfsss will befall you, as your lover willforsake you for another.Httif. To dresm that you are making hay and thesun shining, denotes great prosperity to you as alover; if married, riches and honour await you , butif the sun is under a cloud, and the rest of the work¬ers are taking their ease, it is a sure sign that youwill get a husband—but you will have to work forhim.Hills. To dream of climbing up hills shews youwill overcome many troubles, and at last be very rich.Horses. To dream of horses is very lucky : if youdream that you see white horses, they denote speedynews; if they are black, you may expect to hear ofthe death of an acquaintance.Ice. To dream you are sliding or skating uponice shews you will he engaged in some imaginarypursuit that will elude you ; if the ice breaks, youmay be certain of sickness.Infants. Dreaming of infants denotes ill health,and trouble; if they are playing, you may thenTHE DREAMER 8 DICTIONARY.expect to receive great satisfaction from a distantland.Iron. To dream you are hurt with iron shews youwill receive some injury.Key. To dream of losing your key betokens dis¬pleasure; to find one, an addition to your family;to give one, is marriage; to receive one, the birthof a child.King or Queeji. To dream about the king or queen,or any of the royal family, betokens disappointment,excepting the months in which there is not an /?,when it is a sign of great honour and prosperity.Kissing. To dream you kiss a pretty maid indi¬cates good; if she consents without any resistance,she will be true to her lover; to dream you kiss amarried woman, and she consents, is a sign of sorrow and poverty : and that you will be unsuccessfulin your present undertakings; it usually meansdeceit. , jKnife. To dream you give a knife to your intendedshews you will lose him or her.Ladder. To dream you climb a ladder denotesthat you will arrive at great honours; it also beto¬kens a happy marriage, and many children.Laurel. A wife to dream she smells a laurel-treeshews she w ill have children ; if a maid, she will besoon married to him whom she loves.Letter. To dream of receiving a letter betokens apresent; if you send one, you will relieve a personin bad circumstances.Lice. To dream of lice is a sure sign of sickness Uthose in single life; but riches to those in the malried state14 THE DREAMERS DICTIONARY.Mad. To dream of being mad is very good; itpromises long life, riches, happy marriage, and goodjhildren.Mappic. To dream that you see a magpie on atree without leaves is a sure sign of sorrow; two isthe sign of great mirth ; three, the sign of a splen¬did wedding; and four, the sign of death.Marriage. To dream you are married signifiesthe death of yourself or some near relation ; todream you assist at a wedding denotes pleasantnews and great success; to dream of lying with yourhusband or wife threatens sudden misfortunes andgreat danger.Meat. To dream of raw meat denotes trouble of avery severe description; if it is boiled, it betokensplenty of work to the tradesman, and great plentyto the family of the labourer ; to the lover, it de¬notes a happy union.Men. Married persons dreaming that thev seemen at work in their fields, and the sun shining,denotes that they will live at their ease, and havenumerous servants; if the field is not you'C, it denotesthat you will have to endure great trialsMice. To dream af mice denotes success in loveand a happy union.Milk. If you dream of milk, it premises greatnews; if you see it flowing from a woman’s breast,foretells happiness in children and in trade.Money. To dream of getting money denotes greatsuccess in all your lawful undertakings.Moon. To dream you see the moon darkeneddenotes sickness and death; if you see it in theshape of a full white face it indicates to the virginTHE DREAMER'S DICTIONARY. 16a speedj marriage; to the wife, that she will havea beautiful daughter; if the husband dreams it, theehild will be a son; to handsome and pretty womenit is a good sign to : ie a full moon, but not so tougly ones.Mulberries. To dream of mulberries betokensconstancy and affection in the married state; to tra¬vellers and sailors, prosperous journeys and voyages ;to the lover, it denotes a speedy union with hissweetheart.Music. To dream you hear delicious music de¬notes joyful news from a friend who has been longabsent; but if the notes are discordant, you willhave a serious quarrel with one whom you highlyesteem.Myrtle. To dream of the myrtle denotes a wan¬ton woman; beware, then, with whom you keep•'ompany.Nakedness. To dream of nakedness denotes scan-ual; if you see a naked female, it is lucky—it de¬notes that honours await you at no very distan'period.News. To dream you receive news from a distantfriend, who is on his death-bed, is good ; a person isat hand to befriend you. If you are married, it be¬tokens an addition to your family.Nightingales. To dream of the nightingale is theforerunner of fire, or thieves by night. If unmarried,a sweet, good-tempered lover. For a married wo¬man to dream she hears this sweet warbler sing,shews that she will have children who will have thegift of singing, but will be in the habit of stayinglate at night.vB^10 THE dreamer'* dictionary.Night. To dream you are travelling by nightforetells great vexation.Nosegays. To dream of gathering and makingnosegays is unlucky, shewing that our best hopesshall wither as flowers do in a nosegay.Nuts. Dreaming of gathering nuts denotes thatyou will spend your time in pursuit of a triflingobject, when you might enudoy it to better advan-tage.Oak. To dream that joa see the stately oak is asign of long life, riches, and great felicity.Oats. If you dream of sowing oats, it foretells thatyou will have a partner who will squander all youpossess; but if you assist in the sowing, then youwill be consulted in all things before the money is*pent, so beware of extravagance—ruin is beforeyou, if you do not act prudently.Oranges. To dream you are eating oranges impliesthat your feelings will be wounded, and may expectgreat grief from a quarter you little expect.Oxen. If you dream that you see white oxen, itshews virtuous inclinations; to see fat or lean oxensignifies present gain or misfortunes.Oysters. To dream of eating oysters foretells pros¬perity, and that you will be married to a lady whois really a virgin, and who will love you ; but if youshould let them fall, you will lose the affections ofthe lady, for she is betrothed to another, and willspeedily be married.Path. To dream you are walking in an easy pathshews that you will be successful in love; or, if youare married, you will obtain what you now wish for.Peaches. Nothing can be more lucky than toTBS DREAMER 8 DICTIONARY 1']ttrMm of-' pgftches ; if jou are in difficulties, son.e•ne will befriend you ; if you are sick, you will soonget better; if misfortune has been a constant visitor, fortune will dispel the dark cloud, and youwill haye much wealth; to the lover, it denotes thegreatest joy in the married life, a numerous familyand a cleanly wife.Peacock. To dream you see a peacock is a signyou will be married to a beautiful lady, and thatyou will be very rich.Pears. To dream of pears betokens elevation inlife, great honours, and riches, love that knows notermination, and success in every pursuit you mayembark in.Pigeons. To dream you see a pigeon flying, andthat a feather drops, signifies you will soon receivea letter from your sweetheart; to drop from anyother bird, is a letter of business. To dream ofpigeons flying is hasty news of a happy nature, andof constancy in lovers.Play. To dream you are at play betokens greathappiness in the married state, and increase ofbusiness.Plough. To dream you are following the plough,and that white horses are in the yoke, it foretellsspeedy news; if the horses are black, deep distress,and often death.Plums. There cannot be a worse dream than thatof plums—they are the forerunner of ill-luck to thehusbandman, the soldier, the sailor, the tradesman,the statesman, the sportsman, and the lovers whowere under promise of marriage.D«rw. Dreaming that you find a pur.- betokens19 tub dreamer's dictiohart.great and unexpected prosperity; if you lose youri.purse, you will assist at a friend:s funoral.Quarrel. If you dream you are quarteilitig, itvshews great happiness and contentment.Railway Train. To dream that you aVe iu! a'/rail¬way fourth class carriage between two men is'a1 posi¬tive sign that good fortune awaits you; if in thethird class, and a lady sits on your left hand, bewareof an enemy ; if in the second dacs, with yoRr backto the engine, there is something good awaiting you;but if your face is to the engine, you may expectgreat grief in consequence of your sweetheart mak¬ing love to another. If yon are in the flwt class,and the passengers speak to you, you will be axaltedto rank, and heir an estate ; but if they don’t speak,trouble awaits you, so prepare for the event.Rain. If you behold rain in your dream, it proaiiees success in a leve affair: in all other respectsit betokens trouble and vexation.Rainbow. To dream you see a rainbow foretellssudden and agreeable news.Raspberries. To dream of raspberries denotesgreat happiness and success; to the husbandman,an abundant crop ; to the tradesman, groat wealth;to the soldier, a complete victory ; te the sailor, aprosperous voyage; to the lover, a quick Mid happymarriage; and to the forsaken, an unexpected returnof the runaway.Rats. If you are attacked by ruts, and get thebetter of them, it shews that some person will vainlytry to do you harm; hut if the rats tear or force youto run away, expeei some great misfortune to betallyou-HE DREAMER’S DTCTTONARY. "Ravens <r.' Crorvs. To dream you see a crow orraven betokens great mischief; it shews falsehoodin love.Ribbon. To dream you wear ribbons shew’s ansntanglement in love to the single, and extravagantchildren to the married.Rings. To dream you have a ring on your fingerdenotes marriage with the person you love; but ifthe ring drops off, it betokens death to a near friend.River. Dreaming that you see river-water clearindicates good; but to dream of swimming in thesea when it is muddy, signifies great peril anddanger.Rocks. A good dream for those going into busi¬ness, as it shews stability therein.Roses. To dream of these flowers in season is asure token of happiness and success; but if thesebe out of season, it indicates distress, sickness, anddisappointment; in love, they denote that yoursweetheart is true, and that you will be married, andhave many children.Sailing. To dream you are sailing in a ship, andthe water smooth, shews you will succeed in allyour undertakings; if you sail in a small boat, andgain the desired haven, you will gain great riches.Sea. To dream you are walking on the sea isgood to him who would take a wife, for he shall en¬joy her.Shoes. To dream you have a pair of shoes denotessuccess in life; in love-matters, they signify mar¬riage, which will turn out an equal advantage toboth parties.Silk. To dream vou are clothed in silk signifies20 *HE DREAMERS DICTION ART.honour. To dream that you trade with a strangerin silk denotes profit and joy.Silver. To dream of silver shews that you havefalse friends, who will attempt your ruin; in love,it denotes that your sweetheart is false, and that heis engaged to another.Singing. To dream that you are singing betokenssome melancholy news ; if you are unwell, it shewsa speedy recovery; if in prison, you will soon be setfree.Snow. To dream you see the ground covered withsnow is a very good dream; to a young man, itshows he will marry a virgin, and have a largefamily.Soldiers. To dream of soldiers shows trouble,persecutions and law suits; if they pursue you, itshows that you will be disliked by your rich neigh¬bours.Sprats. To dream of sprats denotes you will havea large family of children. If you dream of cookingthem, your children will give you a great deal oftrouble.Stars. To dream you behold the stars shining verybright is success to the lover, and glad news froma far country; if they fall, it denotes health andhappiness.Steam-Boat. To dream you are aboard of a steamer,and the sea is boisterous, denotes that your loverand you w'ill quarrel ; but if the sea is calm, it is asign of a speedy marriage to the single; to the mar¬ried, it denotes great success in some favourite speculation.Sun. To dream you see the sun shining denotesTHE DREAMERS DICTIONARY. 31accumulation of wealth, and filling posts of honourin the State.Sweetheart. To dream of your sweetheart leavingyou and going with another, is a very good dream ;it shews that he will prove a faithful friend and aloving husband ; if you see a female taking hold ofhis arm, beware of a rival.Swimming. To dream that you are swimming withyour head above the water shews that you will suc¬ceed in your undertakings, whatever they may be ;to dream that your head is under water shews greattrouble, and that you will hear some unpleasant newsfrom an individual you thought was deceased.Swine. To dream you see swine feeding is a verybad dream ; it is a sure token of bodily distress to thedreamer ; but if one drives them away, it betoken*.i speedy recovery from sickness.Tavern. To dream you are feasting with friendsin a tavern signifies great joy and comfort to youand yours.Tea. To dream of drinking tea is a certain signthat some individuals are speaking ill of you, to pre¬vent your union with your lover; if it is sweet, andneither milk nor cream in it, their malice is invete¬rate ; but if there is cream or milk, and no sugar init, as soon as you are joined in wedlock, a person willbefriend you with money who you little thought of;but beware of him 1Teeth. To dream of losing your teeth shews th«loss of some friend by death, and that great trouble isabout to accompany you.Tempest. To dream you are overtaken by a stormdenotes that you will, alter wumborlesa hardships,22 TIIR DREAMER S MCTIORaKY-arrive at happiness, and that you will become rich.and marry a good-natured lady.Thirst. If any one dream* his thirst is quenchedvhen thirsty, and that he hath drunk his fill ofwater, if the water did appear clear and acceptableto him, he will live very jovially, and become verywealthy; if the water be troubled, lukewarm, stinking,and dirty, he will end his days in sicknessandaffliction.Thunder and Lightning. To dream of thunder orlightning denotes gain in your business; but if itbai ts you, it is a sign of some calamity.Toads. To dream you destroy a toad denotes thatyou will discover a thief in whom you placed greattrust.Trees. To dream of cutting down trees betoken,virious losses in trade; but if you climb them, itdenotes advancement to honour.Trumpet. To dream you hear the sound of atrumpet denotes troubles and misfortunes; to thelover, inconstancy in the object of his affections.Urns. To dream of urns in a churchyard is thesign of the death of a sailor or soldier belonging tovour family.Venus. To dream you see this goddess, or a statueor picture, denotes an intrigue in which you will beengaged; and the more important will this affairprove, if the planet Yenus appears to you in a mortalform, and speaks to you, for it is a token of a happysmrriage to either sex.Vessel. If you dream you are in a sailing vesse.,and the captain is at the helm, it denotes that youwill have a careful partner; if you arc married, yoi’'till sise to honour and vespectabilitj-T&K DREajHEKS DICT’O^AK)PFaiibtg. To dream of walking la a airty placeforetells sickness and vexation to the lover; it also> ^ *denotes your sweetheart to be of a bad temper, andinconstant.Halls. If you dream of walking on weak andnarrow walls, you are sure to undertake some boldand dangerous enterprise; if you come down with¬out hurt, you will succeed; if the walls fall afteryou, you will be disappointed.Water. To dream of drinking water shews troubleand adversity; to the lover it denotes that the pre¬tensions of your sweetheart are false, he loves an¬other, and will never wed you.Wedding. To dream of a wedding is very un¬favourable to lovers; it denotes sickness or deathof some friend or relation.Women. If you dream of meeting women on «road, each carrying a bundle, there is some mischietabout to happen to you ; if they are empty-handed,and joking away to each other, it is a sign that youwill be asked to a company of friends, but bewarethat you are not entangled with some of the fair sex-—If you see a woman on her knees, beware, for avixen would fain have you.Wood. If you dream of cutting or chopping wood,it shews you will be happy in your family circle,and attain to much honour and riches in life. Todream you are carrying wood on your back shew?you will rise to alduence oy your industry and per¬severance.JVooL To dream you are buying or selling woolforetells gain in business by means of industry andperseverance ; to tile level, it is c. oijr TO-I94 the dreamers dictiona»».heart is ot an amiable disposition, very constant,!and deeply in love with you.Writing. When dreaming of writing a letter toyour sweetheart, if you put it in the post, you willhave a pleasing return ; but to trust it into otherhands, shews that your secrets will be exposed.Yellow To dream of yellow colour denotes greattrouble to the married woman from a female friend,and thg, loss of her husband’s affections; to thelover it signifies he will marry a virgin.Yellow-hammer. To dream of a yellow'-hammerdenotes, to the young and single, that they will cer¬tainly be united in wedlock to the object of theirchoice before the expiration of the next summer.Yew-tree. To dream of a yew-tree foretells thefuneral of a very aged person, by whose death th<dreamer will become rich, or receive a protectinghand from the relations of the deceased.Yoke. To dream you are bearing a yoke denote*danger ; if it be a female, she will be willing to obeyher husband, and will govern her family w'ith pru¬dence and care.Young. To dream that you are young foretellspeace, delight, and great happiness.Zealander. To dream you see an Indian in hisnative dress, shew's, to a man, he will travel, and toa woman, she will wed a foreigner. lo dream yousee an Indian female predicts, to a man, that he willwed a rich widow, and to a woman, that she willhave a son who will raise himself to great powerand honour in the Indies, and bring wealth andhonour to his kindred.s-MOBjKt