sTHE» COMICAL SAYINGSOF ♦PADDY ¥mm CORK, |wxfn msCoat Buttoned Behind.BEING AN ELEGANT CONFERENCE BETWEENENGLISH TOM AND IRISH TEAGUE;WITH PADDY’S CATECHISM,And his Supplication when a Mountain Sailor,#Ii*$l#X?#z#GLASGOW:P R [ N T E D F 0 R T HE BOOKS E L E R S****** *********»********.21.,COMICAL SAYINGSorPADDY FROM CORK.PART I.7bm. Good morrow. Sir, this is a very cold day.Tlay. Arra, dear honey, yesternight was a very coldmorning.Tom. Well brother traveller of what nation art thoufTectff. Arra dear shoy, I came from my own kingdom,Tom. Why, I know that, but where is thy kingdom P7'eag. Allelieu dear honey, don’t you know Cork inIreland.7bm. You fool, Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Teaff. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it is in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reason you have come and leftyour own dear country ?Teaff. Arra dear honey, by shaint Patrick, they havegot such comical laws in our country, that they will puta man to death in perfect health; so to be free and plainwith you, neighbour, I was obliged to come away, forI did not choose to stay among such a people that canhang a poor man when they please, if he either steals,robs, or kills a man.Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an honestman, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.Teaff. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I was buta child, my mother would have trusted me with a housefull of mill-stones.Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty of nothing.Teog, Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody, but’d g> ntleman’s gun, and afterwards made it474m. Very well boy, and did you keep it so ?Teag. Keep it, I would have kept it with all my heartwhile I lived, death itself could not have parted us, buttha old rogue, the gentleman, being a justice of peacehimself, had me tried for the rights of it, and how I cameby it, and so took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself without punish'ment ?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I told him a parcel of lies, butthey would not believe me; for I said that I got it frommy father when it was a little pistol, and I had kept ittill it had grown a gun, and was designed to use it welluntil it had grown a a big cannon, and then sell it to themilitary. They all fell a laughing at me as I had beena fool, and bade me go home to my mother and cleanthe potatoes.Tom. How long is it since you left your own country ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I do not mind whether it bea fortnight or four months, but I think myself, it is along time; they tell me my mother is dead since, but Iwont believe it until I get a letter from her own hand,for she is a very good scholar, suppose she can neitherwrite nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Teag. Ay, that I was, and in Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you when you was inScotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kick’t my arsefor me, and the reason was because I would not pay thewhole of the liquor that was drunk in the company,though the landlord and his two sons got mouthful aboutof it all, and I told them it was a trick upon travellers,first to drink his liquor, and then to kick him out ofdoors.Tom. I really think they have used you badly, butcould you not beat them ?Teag. That*s what I did, beat them all to their owncontentment, but there was one of them stronger than me, 1who would have killed me, if the other two not pulled jiS 1,7ay, and I had to run for it, till his passion wa», then they made us drink and gree again ; we shookids, and made a bargain, never to harm other more ;tins bargain did not last long, for, as I was kissingmonth, by shaint Patrick, I bit his nose, whichsed him to beat me very sore for my pains.ujtTorn. Well Paddy, what calling was you when inatland.Weag. Why sir, I was no business at all, but what1 iyou call the green tree that’s like a whin bush,[pie makes a thing to sweep the house of it!iilToffi. O yes, Paddy, they call it the broom."'eag. Ay, ay, you have it, I was a gentleman’s broom,waited on his horses, and washed the dishes for the: and when my master rode a hunting, I went be-d with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Paddy, it was the groom you mean,t I fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen boy.Teag. No, no, it was the broom that I was, and iflail staid there till now, I might have been advancedhigh as my master, for the ladies loved me so well,t they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fool.Teag. What sir, do you imagine that I am not a fool ?no, my master asked counsel of me in all his matters,d I always give him a reason for every thing: I toldin one morning, that he went too soon to the hunting,at the hairs were not got out of their beds, and neithere barking of horns, nor the blowing of dogs could makeem rise, it was such a cold morning that night; soey all ran away that we catched, when we did note them. Then my master told my words to severalntlemen that were at dinner with him, and they ad-ired me for want of judgment, for my head was all oflump: adding, they were going a-fishing along withy master and me in the afternoon; but I told themlat it was a very unhappy tiring for any man to gohunting in the morning, and a fishing in the aftemooh ;hey would try it, but they had better staid at home,6for it came » most terrible fine night of south vrest r.and even down wind ; so the fishes got all belowwater to keep themselves dry from the shower, andcatched them all but got none.Tom. How long did you serve that gentleman. PadTmg. Arra, dear honey, I was with him six weeund he beat me seven times.Tom. For what did he beat you ? was it for ymadness and foolish tricks pTeag. Dear shoy, it was not; but for being tooquisitive, and going sharply about business. First,sent me to the post-office to enquire if there were .letters for him ; so when I came there, said I, is thany letters here for my master to-day ? Then tiasked who was my master ; sir, said I, it is verymanners in you to ask any gentleman’s name ; atthey laughed, mocking me, and said they could givenone, if I would not tell my master’s name ; so Iturned to my master and told him the impudence offellow, who would give me no letters unless I wo>tell him your name, master. My master at this fim a passion, and kicked me down stairs, saying, go jrogue, and tell my name directly, how can the gentman give letters when he knows not who is askingthem. Then I returned and told my master’s name,they told me there was one for him. I looked atbeing very small, and asking the price of it, they tme it was sixpence: sixpence, said I, will you tasixpence for that small thing, and selling bigger onestwopence ; faith I am not such a big fool; you thiito cheat me now, this is not a conscionable way of de.ing, I’ll acquaint my master with it first; so I caiand told my master how they would have sixpence 1his letter, and was selling bigger ones for twopence;took up my head and broke his cane with it, calling na thousand fools, saying, the man was more just thantake any tiling but the right for it; but I was sure thewas none of them right, buying and selling such de:penny-worths. So 1 came again for my dear sixpen7letter ; and as the fellow wus shuffling through a paredof them, seeking for it again, to make the best of a dearmarket,' I pict up two, and home I comes to my master,thinking he would be pleased with what I had done ;now, said I, master, l think I have put a trick uponthem fellows, for selling the letter to you. What haveyou done ? I have only taken other two letters : here’sone for you master, to help your dear penny-worth, andI’ll send the other to my mother to see whether she bedead or alive, for she’s always angry I don’t write toher. I had not the word well spoken, till he got uplus stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent me backto the fellows again with the two. I had a very ill willto go, but nobody would buy them of me.Tam. Well, Paddy, I think you was to blame, andyour master too, for he ought to have taught you howto go about these affairs, and not beat you so.Teag. Arra dear honey, I had too much wit of myown to be teached by him, or any body else ; hi beganto instruct me after that how I should serve the table,and such nasty things as those : one night I took ben aroasted fish in one hand, and a piece of bread in theother; the old gentleman was so saucy he would nottake it, and told me I should bring nothing to him with¬out a trencher below it. The same night as he wasgoing to bed, he called for his slippers and pish-pot, soI clapt a trencher below the pish-pot, and another belowthe slippers, and ben I goes, one in every hand; nosooner did I enter the room than he threw the pish-potat me, which broke both my head and the pish-pot atBiie blow ; now, said I, the devil is in my master alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time he counter¬mands at another. Next day I went with him to themarket to buy a sack of potatoes, I went to the potatoe-monger, and asked what he took for the full of a Scot’scog, he weighed them in, he asked no less than four-pence ; fourpence, said I, if I were but in Dublin, Icould got the double of that for nothing, and in Corkand Linsale far cheaper ; them is but small things like8pease, said I, but the potatoes in my country is as big asyour head, fine meat, all made up in blessed moutlifuls ;the potatoe-merchant called me a liar, and my mastercalled me a fool, so the one fell a-kicking me, and theother a cuffing me, I was in such bad bread among them,that I called myself both a liar and a fool to get oftalive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes home fromthe market.Teat/. Arra dear shoy, I carried the horse and themboth, besides a big loaf, and two bottles of wine ; for Iput the old horse on my back, and drove the potatoesbefore me, and when I tied the load to the loaf, I hadnothing to do but to carry the bottle in my hand : butbad luck to the way as I came home, for a nail out ofthe heal of my foot sprung a leak in my brogue, whichpricked the very bone, bruised the skin, and made mybrogue itself to blood, and I having no hammer by me,but a hatchet I left at home, I had to beat down thenail with the bottom of the bottle: and by the book,dear shoy, it broke to pieces, and scattered the wine inmy mouth.Tom. And how did you recompense your master forthe loss of the bottle of wine ?Teaff. Arra dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himand myself too, for I took the bottle to a blacksmith,and desired him to mend it that I might go to the but¬cher and get it full of bloody water, but he told me hecould not work in any thing but steel and iron. Arra,said I, if I were in my own kingdom, I could get ablacksmith who would make a bottle out of a stone, anda stone out of nothing.Tom. And how did you trick your master out of it ?Teag. Why the old rogue began to chide me, askingme what way I broke it, then 1 held up the other ashigh as my head, and let it fall to the ground on a stone,which broke it all in pieces likewise : now said I, mas¬ter, that’s the way, and he beat me very heartily untilI had to shout out mercy and murder all at once.9Vim. Why did you not leave him when he used yonso badly. jTeng. Arra, dear shoy> I could never think to leavehim while I could eat, he gave me so many good vic¬tuals, and promised to prefer me to be his own bone-picker. But by shaint Patrick, I had to run awaywith my life or all was done, else I had lost my dearshoul and body too by him, and then come home muchpoorer than I went away. The great big bitch dog,which was my master’s best beloved, put his head intoa pitcher, to lick out some milk, and when it was in hecould not get it out; and I to save the pitcher got thehatchet and cut off the dog’s head, and then I had tobreak the pitcher to get out the head; by this I lostboth the dog and the pitcher. My master hearing ofthis swore he would cut the head off me, for the poordog was made useless, and could not see to follow anybody for want of his eyes. And when I heard of this,I ran away with my own head, for if I had wanted itI had lost my eyes too, then I would not have seen theroad to Port Patrick, through Glen-nap; but by shaintPatrick I came home alive in spite of them.Tom. O rarely done, Paddy, you behaved like aman ! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleswear always by saint Patrick ?Teag. Arra dear honey, he was the best shaint inthe world, the father of all good people in the kingdom,he has a great kindness for an Irishman, when he hearshim calling on his name.Tom. But, Paddy, is saint Patrick yet alive ?Teag. Arra dear honey, I dont know whether he bedead or alive, but it is a long time since they killed him;the people all turned heathens, but he would not changehis profession, and was going to run the country with it,and for taking the gospel away to England, so thebarbarous tories of Dublin cutted off his head ; and heswimmed over to England, and carried his head in bisteeth.10PART IITom. How did you get safe out of Scotland ?Teag. By the law dear honey, when I came to PortPatrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew I was safeat home, but I was clean dead, and almost drowned be¬fore I could get riding over the water; for I with ninepassengers more, leapt into a little young boat, havingbut four men dwelling in a little house, in the one endof it, which was all thacked with deals: and after theyhad pulled up her tether-stick, and laid her long halterover her mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like threeoair of blankets, to the riggen of the house, and the windblew in that, which made her gallop up one hill anddown another, till I thought she would have run to theworld’s end.Tom. Well Paddy, and where did you go when youcame to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra dear honey, and where did I go but tomy own dear cousin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the old buck his father; who died but a fewweeks before I went over, and the parish had to buryhim out of pity, it did not cost him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment did you get there ?Teag. O my dear shoy, I was kindly used as anothergentleman, and would have staid there long enough, butwhen a man is poor his friends think little of him: I toldhim I was going to see my brother Harry: Harry, saidhe, Harry is dead; dead said I, and who killed him ?Why, said he, death : Allelieu, dear honey, and wheredid he kill him ? said I. In his bed, says he. Arradear honey, said I, if he had been upon Newry moun¬tains with his brogues on, and his broad sword by hisside, all the death’s in Ireland had not have killed him:O that impudent fellow death, if he had let him alonetCl he died for want of butter milk and potatoes, I amsure he had lived all the days of his life.7b»». In all your travels when abroad, did yoa aerot\IIDane of your countrymen to uiioria you of wliathappened at nome concerning your relations ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I saw none but Tom Jack,le day in the street; but when I came to him, it was>t him, but one just like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling ?Tmg. Why a recruiting sergeant listed me to be aiptain, and after all advanced me no higher than aier itself, but only he called me his dear countrymanit; for I did not know what the regiment washen I saw them. I thought they were all gentle-nen’s sons, and collegioners, when I saw a box like a)ible upon their bellies; until I saw G for King Georgeipon it, and R for God bless him: ho, ho, said I, Ishan't be long here.Tom. O then Paddy you deserted from them ?Teag. That’s what I did, and ran to the mountainsike a buck, and ever since when I see any soldiers Idose my eyes, lest they should look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you when you was aoldier ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I killed a man.Tom. And how did you do that ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, when he dropt his sword Iirew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and thencutted off his foot.Tom. O then what a big fool was you; for youaught first to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore I engaged him, else I had not done it.Tom. O then Paddy you acted like a fool: but youe not such a big fool as many take you to be, youight pass for a philosopher.Teag. A fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher, be-he was a man under great authority by law, cMi¬ning the just and clearing the guilty. Do you knowthey call the horse’s mother?Tom. Why they call her a mare.13ay, very well minded, my fatherwuTeatj. A mare,a mare in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Teag. A bad luck to her own barren belly, for sh«lived in great plenty, and died in great poverty; devouredup all or she died but two hens, and a pockful of potatoes,a poor estate for an Irish gentleman, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of the hens, ampotatoes, did you sow them ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I sowed them in my belly;and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What business did your mother follow after PTeag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in ?Teag. Dear honey, she went through the country and >sold small fishes, onions and apples, bought hens anc! t-eggs and then hatched them herself. I remember oflong-necked cock she had, of an oversea brood, thastood on the midden and picked all the stars out of thenorth-west, so they were never so thick there since,Tom. Now Paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all: but ithere none of that cock’s offspring alive now.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I don’t think there are, bu:it is a pity but they had, for they would fly with peoplabove the sea, which would put the use of ships out ofashion, and nobody be drowned at all.Tom. Very well Paddy, but in all your travels dyou ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wicked wife tooand my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether she is gone tPurgatory, or the parish of Pig-trantrum; for she tol!me she should certainly die the first opportunity shcould get, as this present evil world was not wort,the waiting on, so she would go and see what go«things is in the world to come; so when that old rovecalled the Fever came raging over the whole kingdom“he went away and died out of spite, leaving me nothimchildrenuiilitit:Ititi»ikin*•if,13Tom. O but Paddy, you ought to have gone to adoctor, and got some pills and physic for her.Teag. By shaint Patrick, I had as good a pill of myown as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what I mean; youought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, andlet blood of her if he thought it needful.Te,ag. Yes that’s what I did, for I ran to the doctorwhenever she died, and sought something for a dead ordying woman; the old foolish devil was at his dinner,and began to ask me some dirty questions, which I an¬swered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ask Paddy ?Teag. Why, he asked me. How did my wife go tostool ? to which I answered, the same way that otherpeople go to a chair: no, said he, that’s not what Imean, how does she purge ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, saidI, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge her clean; forshe has both a cold and stinking breath. Sir, said he,that is not what I ask you ; whether does she shit thickor thin ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, said I, it is sometimes sothick and hard, that you may take it in your hand, andcut it like a piece of cheese, or pudding, and at othertimes you may drink it, or sup it with a spoon. Atthis he flew into a most terrible rage, and kicked medown stairs, and would give me nothing to her, butcalled me a dirty vagabond for speaking of shit beforeladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your wifewhen she died.Teag. O my dear shoy she was buried in all mannerof pomp, pride, and splendour: a fine coffin with cordsin it, and within the coffin along with herself, she got apair of new brogues, a penny candle, a good hard-headedold hammer, with an Irish sixpenny piece, to pay herpassage at the gate, and what more could she look for.Tom. I really think you gave her enough along withher, but you ought to have cried for her, if it was nomore hut to be in the fashion.And why should I cry without sorrow ? whend two criers to cry all the way before her to keepher in the fashion.Tom. And what do they cry before a dead woman ?Tear}. Why they cry the common cry, or funerallament that is used in our Irish country.Tom. And what manner of cry is that Paddy ?1'eag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I’ll tell you, whenmy person dies, there is a number of criers goes before,saying, Luff, fuff, fou, allelieu, dear honey, what aileththee to die ! it was not for want of good buttermilk andpotatoes.PART III.Tom. Well Paddy, and what did you do when yourwife died PTeag. Dear honey, what would I do ? do you think Iwas such a big fool as to die too, I am sure if I had Iwould not have got fair play when I am not so old yetas my father was when he died.Tom. No, Paddy, it is not that I mean, was yousorry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I would notweep, nor yet be sorry, suppose my own mother and allthe women in Ireland had died seven years before I wasbom.Tom. What did you do with your children when shedied ?Teag. Do you imagine I was such a big fool as burjmy children alive along with a dead woman; Arra, dealhoney, we always commonly give nothing along with adead person, but an old shirt, a winding sheet, a bighammer, with a long candle, and an Irish silver three¬penny piece ?Tom. Dear Paddy, and what do they make of allthese things ?Teag. Then Tom, since you are so inquisitive, youmust go ask the Priest.Tow. What did you make of your children Paddy f15Tmg. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that I should give them into the hands of thebutchers, as they had been a parcel of young hogs : byshaint Patrick I had more unnaturality in me, than toput them in an hospital as others do.Tom. No, I suppose you woulcPleave them with yourfriends ?Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is sometimes worsethan a protest enemy, the best friend I ever had in theIvorld was my own pocket while my money lasted; buti left two babes between the priest’s door and the parishdiurch, because I thought it was a place of mercy, andthen set out for England in quest of another fortune.Tom. I fancy, Paddy, you came off with what theycall a moon-shine flitting.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not see sun,moon, nor stars, all the night then : for I set out fromCork at the dawn of night, and I had travelled twentymiles all but twelve, before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I came to a country villagecalled Dublin, as big a city as any market-town in allEngland, where I got myself aboard of a little youngboat, with a parcel of fellows, and a long leather bag.I supposed them to be tinklers, until I asked what theycarried in that leather sack; they told me it was theEnglish mail they were going over with; then said I, isthe milns so scant in England, that they must send overtheir corn to Ireland to grind it, the comical cunningfellows persuaded me it was so: then I went down to alittle house below the water, hard by the rigg-back ofthe boat, and laid me down on their leather sack, whereI slept myself almost to death with hunger. And dear5l om to tell you plainly when I waked I did not knowwhere I was, but thought I was dead and buried, for Ifound nothing all round me but wooden walls and timberabove.Tom. And how did yci etme to yourself to knowwhen tom was at last./16Teag. By the law, dear shoy, I scratclied my headin a hundred parts, and then set me down to think uponit, so I minded it was my wife that was dead and notme, and that 1 was alive in the young boat, with thefellows that carries over the English meal from the Irishmilns.Tom. O then Paddy, I am sure you was glad whenyou found yourself alive ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I was very sure I was alive.but I did not think to live long, so Ithoughtit wasraybetter for me to steal and be hanged, than to live all my Idays and die directly with hunger at last.Tom. Had you no meat nor money along with you ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I gave all the money to thecaptain of the house, or gudeman of the ship, to take meinto the sea or over to England, and when I was like teat my old brogues for want of victuals I drewhanger and cut the lock of the leather sack to get a lieof their meal; but allelieu, dear shoy, I found neitheimeal nor seeds, but a parcel of papers and letterspoor morsel for a hungry man.Tom. O then paddy you laid down your honesty foinothing.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great theif but got nothing tsteal.Tom. And how did you get victuals at last ?Teag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meat anddrink, death and life, and every thing else was out olmind, I had not a thought but one.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. To go down among the fishes and become t|whale; then I would have lived at ease all my days,having nothing to do but to drink salt water, andcaller oysters.Tom. What was you like to be drowned again ?Teag. Ay, ay, drowned, as cleanly drowned as afor the sea blew very loud, and the wind ran sothat we were all cast safe on shore, and not onedrowned at all.KHiMiij«ia:%■)7Tom. Where did you go when you came on shore ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was not able to go anywhere, you might cast a knot on my belly, I was sohollow in the middle, so I went into a gentleman’s houseand told him the bad fortune I had of being drownedbetween Ireland and the foot of his garden; where wecame all safe ashore. But all the comfort I got fromhim was a word of truth.Torn. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. Why he told me, if I had been a good boy athome, I needed not to have gone so far to push my for¬tune with an empty pocket; to which I answered, andwhat magnifies that, as long as I am a good workmant no trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Paddy, the gentleman would makeou dine with him ?Teag. I really thought I was, when I saw themcasting and skinning so many black chickens which waslothing but a few dead crows they were going to eat;ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at the best, of alljthe fowls that flee, commend me to the wing of an ox:ibut all that came to my share was a piece of boiled her-ijring and a roasted potatoe, that was the first bit of breadI ever eat in England.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you follow:j after in England when you was so poor.".I Teag. What sir, do you imagine I was poor when Icame over on such an honourable occasion as to list, andring myself to no preferment at all. As I was an ableiodied man in the face, I thought to be made a brigadeer,grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, or even one of them blewowns that holds the flerry stick to the bung-hole of theig cannons, when they let them off, to fright away the'rench ; I was as sure as no man alive ere I came fromirk, the least prefennent I could get, was to be rid--master to a regiment of marines, or one of the blackitself.Tom. And where in England was it you listed ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I was going through that/lblittle country village, the famous city of Chester, thestreets were very sore by reason of the hardness of myfeet, and lameness of my brogues, so I went but veryslowly across the streets, from port to port is a prettylong way, but I being weary thought nothing of it; thenthe people came all crowding to me as I had been aworld’s wonder, or the wandering jew; for the rain blewin my face, and the wind wetted all my belly, whichcaused me to turn the backside of my coat before, andmy buttons behind, which was a good safegaurd to mybody, and the starvation of my naked body, for I had nota good shirt.Tom. I am sure then, Paddy, they would take youfor a fool ?Teag. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdom,for I always turned my buttons before, when the windblew behind, but I wondered how the people knew myname and where I came from; for every one told another,that was Paddy from Cork: I suppose they knew myface by seeing my name in the newspapers.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you follow inChester ?Toag. To be sure I was not idle, working at nothingat all, till adecruiting seargeant came to town with twoor three fellows along with him, one beating on a fiddle,and another playing on a drum, tossing their airs thro’the streets, as if they were going to be married. I sawthem courting none but young men ; so to bring myselfto no preferment at all, I listed for a soldier,—I was toobig for a grandedeer.Tom. What listing money did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I got five thirteens and a pahof English brogues ; the guinea and the rest of the goldwas sent to London, to the King, my master, to buyme new shirts, a cockade, and common treasing for myhit, they made me swear the malicious oath of devilrieagainst the King, the colours, and my captain, tellingme if ever I desert, and not run away, that I should beshut, and then whipt to death through the regiment-219Tom. No Paddy: it is first whipt and then shot yoamean.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, it is all one thing at last, butit is best to be shot and then whipt, the cleverest wayto die I’ll warrant you.Tom. How much pay did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat seargeant thatfeed me to be a soldier ?Tom. And how should I know them I never saw youfool.Teag. Dear shoy, you may know him whether yousee him or not, his face is all bored in holes with thesmall pox, his nose is the colour of a lobster-toe, andhis chin like a well washen potatoe, he’s the biggestrogue in our kingdom, you’ll know him when you meethim again: the rogue height me sixpence a day, kill orno kill: and when I laid Sunday and Saturday bothtogether, and all the days in one day, I can’t make spenny above fivepence of it.Tom. You should have kept an account, and askedyour arrears once a month.Teag. That’s what I did, but he reads a paternosterout of his prayer book, wherein all our names are written;so much for a stop-hold to my gun, to bucklers, to apair of comical ham-hose, with leather buttons from topto toe ; and worst of all, he would have no less than apenny a week, to a doctor; arra, said I, I never hada sore finger, nor yet a sick toe, all the days of my life,then what have I to do with the doctor, or the doctorto do with me.Tom. And did he make you pay all these things ?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay: he took me beforehis captain, who made me pay all was in his book.Arra, master captain, said I, you are a comical sort ofa fellow now, you might as well make me pay for mycoflin before I he dead, as to pay for a doctor before Ihe sick ; to which he answered in a passion, sir, said he,I have seen many a better man buried without a coffin;sir, said 1, then I’ll have a coffin, die when I will, if/there be as much wood in all the world, or I shall notbe buried at all. Then he called for the sergeant, say-ing, you sir, go and buy that man’s coffin, and put it inthe store till he die, and stop sixpence a week of his payfor it: No, no, sir, said I, I’ll rather die without a coffin,and seek none when I’m di J, but if you are for clippinganother sixpence off ray pay, keep it all to yourself, andI’ll swear all your oaths of agreement we had back again,and then seek soldiers where you will.Tom. 0 then Paddy, how did you end the matter ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, by the nights of shaint Patrickand help of my brogues, I both ended it, and mended it,for the next night before that, I gave them leg bail foimy fidelity, and went about the country a fortune-teller,dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom. How old was you Paddy when you was a soldieilast ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all buttwo, and it is only two years since, so I want only foulyears of three dozen yet, and when I live six dozen more,I’ll be older than I am. I’ll warrant you.Tom. O but Paddy, by your account, you are threedozen of years old already.Teag. O what for a big fool are you now Tom, whenyou count the years I lay sick; which time I count notime at all.A NEW CATECHISM, &c.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religion tell menow, Paddy, of what profession art thou ?Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carry out of mine own country: I was afraidthat you English Presbyterians should pluck it away fromme.Tom. What, Paddy, was your religion such a loadthat you could not carry it along with you 7 .Teag. Yes, that it was, but I carried it always aboutwith me when at home my sweet cross upon my dearbreast, bound to my dear bn!ton hole.21Tom. and what manner of worship did yon performI by that ?Teag. Why I adored the cross, the pope, and thei priest, cursed Oliver as black as crow, and swears my-ii self a cut throat against all Protestants and church ofEnglandmen.Tom. And what is the matter but you would be achurch of Englandman, or a Scotch Presbyterian your-!l self, Paddy ?Teag. Because it is unnatural for an Irishman: buthad shaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I had been thei same.Tom. And for what reason would you be a Presby-i terian then, Paddy ?Teag. Because they have liberty to eat flesh in lent)and every thing that’s fit for the belly.1 Tom. What, Paddy, are you such a lover of flesh thatyou would change your profession for it ?Teag. O yes, that’s what I would, I love flesh of all1 kinds, sheep’s beef, swine’s mutton, hare’s flesh, and: hen’s venison; but our religion is one of the hungriest inall the world, ah ! but it makes my teeth to weep, and1 my belly to water, when I see the Scotch Presbyterians,u and English churchmen, in time of lent, feeding uponii bulls’ bastards, and sheep’s young children.Tom. Why Paddy, do you say the bull is a fornicatorn and gets bastards ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow and herr husband all the days of my life, nor before I was born,| going to the church to be manied, and what then canI Ids sons and daughters be but bastards ?Tom. What reward will you get when you are dead,j< for punishing your belly so while you are alive ?Teag. By shaint Patrick I’ll live like a king when’ I’m dead, for I will neither pay for meat nor drink.Tom. What, Paddy, do you think that you are tccome alive again when you are dead ?Teag. O yes, we that are true Roman EathoAcswili live a long time after we are dead; whan we die3Sfe love with the Priests, and the goad people of emprofession.Torn. And what assurance can your priest give youof that?Tea§. Arra, dear slioy, our priest is a great shaint,a good shoul, who can repeat a pater-noster and AveMaria, which wiU fright the very horned devil himself,and make him run for it, until he be like to fall andbreak his neck.Totn. And what does he give you when you are dyingthat makes you come alive again ?Teag. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues, seal¬ed with a wafer, gives us a sacrament in our mouth, witha pardon, and direction in our right hand, who to call forat the ports of Purgatoiy.Tom. And what money design you to give the priest 1for your pardon ?Teag. Dear shoy I wish I had first the money hewould take for it, I would rather drink it myself, andthen give him both my bill and my honest word, payablein the other world.Tom, And how then are you to get a passage to theother world, or who is to carry you there ?7'eag. 0 my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothing ofthe matter: for when I die, they will buiy my body,flesh, blood, dirt, and bones, only my skin will be blownup full of wind and spirit, my dear shoul I mean; and jlthen I will be blown over to the other world on the 11(rings of the wind ; and after that I’ll never be killed, [Lhanged nor drowned, nor yet die in my bed, for when llany hits me a blow, my new body will play buff upon it |lIke a bladder.Tom. But what way will you go to the new world, |>or where is it ?Tcag. Arra, dear shoy, the priest knows where it i*hut I do not, but the Pope of Rome keeps the outer-port, shaint Patrick the inner-port, and gives us a direc¬tion of the way to shaint Patrick’s palace, which stand?33oa the head of the Stalian loch, where PD have n* Bareto do bat chap at the gate.7bff>. What is the need for chapping at the gate, iait not always open ?Teag. Dear shoy, you know little about it, for thereIs none can enter but red hot Irishmen, for when I callAllelieu, dear honey, shaint Patrick countenance yourown dear countryman if you will, then the gates will beopened directly for me, for he knows and loves an Irish¬man’s voice, as he loves his own heart.Tom. And what entertainment will you get when youare in ?Teag. 0 my dear, we are all kept there untill a generalreview, which is commonly once in the week; and thenwe are drawn up like as many young recruits, and allthe blackgaurd scoundrels is pict out of the ranks, andone half of them is sent away to the Elysian fields, tocurry the weeds from among the potatoes, the other halfof them to the River sticks, to catch fishes for shaintPatricks table, and them that is owing the priests anymoney is put in the black-hole, and then given to thehands of a great black bitch of a devil, which is keepedfor a hangman, who whips them up and down the smokydungeon every morning for six months.Tom. Well Paddy, are you to do as much justice toa Protestant as a Papist ?Teag. O my dear shoy, the most jnstice we are com¬manded to do a Protestant, is to whip and torment themuntil they confess themselves in the Romish faith ; andthen cut their throats that they may die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at present ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor andmy supplication is as follows.paddy’s humble petition, oh supplication.Good Christian people, behold me a man ! who has corn’dthrough a world of wonders, a hell full of hardships,dangers by sea, and dangers by land, and yet I am alive;you may see my hand crooked like a fowl’s foot, and24that is no wonder at all considering iny sufferings andsorrows. Oh ! oh ! oh ! good people. 1 was a manin my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty' of thesilver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter, thebeer, beef, and biscuit. And now I have nothing :being taken bytheTurksand relieved by the Spaniards,lay sixty-six days at the siege of Gibralter, and gotnothing to eat but sea wreck and raw mussels ; put toseafor our safety', castupontheBarbarian c#ast,amongthe wicked Algerines, where we were taken and tiedwith tugs and tadders, horse-locks, and cow-chains :then cut and castcate yard and testicle quite away', putin your hand and feel how every female's made smoothby the sheer bone, where nothing is to be seen but whatis natural. Then made our escape to the desart wildwilderness of Arabia; where we lived among the wildasses, upon wind, sand, and sapless ling. Afterwardsput to sea in the hull of an old house, where we weretossed above and below the clouds, being driven throughthickets and grovesbyfierce, coarse, calm, and contrarywinds: at last, was cast upon Salisbury plains, whereour vessel was dashed to pieces againstacabbagestock.And now my humble petition to you, good Christianpeople is, for one hundred of your beef, one hundred ofy'our butter, another of your cheese, a cask of your bis¬cuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of y'our rum, with a pipeof your wine,alumpof your gold,a pieceof your silver,■a few of your half-pence or farthings, a waught of yourbutter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, stockings, orshoes, even a chaw of tobacco fo" charity’s sake.