mmmmmmmmmmmmwmTIIE @COMICAL SAYINGS SyrsrNOF £3PADDY FROM COHK,§>CNWITH HIS jgjCOAT BUTTONED BEHIND. SBEING AN ELEGANT CONFERENCE BETWEEN ENGLISH £■TOM AND IRISH TEAGUE; WITH PADDY’S 5CATECHISM: AND HIS SUPPLICATIONWHEN A MOUNTAIN SAILOR./ ■ ,i.: "!T'' cm-ota7/008 A JO.tmMmjmu. swt hoi (T’thijwCOMICAL SAYINGS01'PADDY FROM CORK.PART I.Tom. Good morrow. Sir, this is a very cold day.Tmg. An a, dear honey, yesternight was a very coldmorning.Tom, Well brother traveller of what nation art thou?Tmg. Arra dear shoy, I came from my own kingdom.Tom. Why, I know that, but where is thy kingdom ?Teag, Allelieu dear honey, don’t you know Cork inIreland.Tom. You fool, Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Tmg. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it is in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reason you have come and leftyour own dear country ?Teag. Arra dear honey, by shaint Patrick, they havegot such comical laws in our country, that they will puta man to death in perfect health; so to be free and plainwith you, neighoour, I was obliged to come away, forI did not, choose to stay among such a people that canhang a poor man when they please, if he either steals,robs, or kills a man.Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an honestman, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.Teag. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I was buta child, my mother would have trusted me with a housefull of mill-stones.Tom. What was the matter, was yon guilty of nothing,Teag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody, hutfancied an old gentleman’s gun,, and afterwards made itmy own.4Tom. Very well boy, and did you keep it so?Tmg. Keep it, I would have kept it with all my heartwhile I lived, death itself could not have parted us, butthe old rogue, the gentleman, being a justice of peacehimself, had me tried for the rights of it, and how I cameby it, and so took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself without punish¬ment ?Tmg. Arra dear shoy, I told him a parcel of lies, butthey would not believe me; for I said that I got it frommy father when it was a little pistol, and I had kept ittill it had grown a gun, and was designed to use it welluntil it had grown a a big cannon, and then sell it to themilitary. They all fell a laughing at me as I had beena fool, and bade me go home to my mother and cleanthe potatoes.Tom. How,long is it since you left your own country ?Tmg. Arra, dear honey, I do not mind whether it bea fortnight or four months, hut ,1 think,myself; it is along time; they tell me my mother is dead since, but Iwont believe it until I get a letter from her own hand,for she is a very good scholar, suppose she can' neitherwrite nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Teag. Ay, that I was, and in Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you \yLen you was inScotland ?Tmg. They were that kind that they kick’t my arsefor me, and the r eason was because I would not pay thewhole of tiie liquor that was drunk in tiie company,though the landlord and his two sons got mouthful aboutof it all, and I told them it was a tr ick upon travellers,first to drink his liquor, and then to kick him out of■doors.'Tom. I really think they have used you badly, butcould you not beat them ?Tmg.- That’s what I did, beat them all to their owncontentment, but there was one of them stronger than me,who would have killed me, if the other two had not pulled5me away, and I had to run for it, till his passion wasover, then they made us drink and gree again; we shookhands, and made a bargain, never to harm other more ;hut this bargain did not last long, for, as I was kissinghis mouth, by shaint Patrick, I bit his nose, whichcaused him to beat me very sore for my pains.7bm. Well Paddy, what calling was you when inScotland.Teaff. Why sir, I was no business at all, but whatdo you call the green tree that’s like a whin bush,people makes a thing to sweep the house of it!Tom. 0 yes, Paddy, they call it the broom.Teaff. Ay, ay, you have it, I was a gentleman’s broom,only waited on his horses, and washed the dishes for thecook: and when my master rode a hunting, I went be¬hind with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Paddy, it was the groom you mean.But I fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen boy.Teaff. No, no, it was the broom that I was, and ifI had staid there till now, I might have been advancedas high as my master, for the ladies loved me so well,that they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for a fool.Teaff. What sir, do yon imagine that I am not a fool ?no, no, my master asked counsel of me in all his matters,and I always give him a reason for every thing: I toldhim one morning, that he went too soon to the hunting,that the hairs were not got out of their beds, and neitherthe barking of horns, nor the blowing of dogs could makethem rise, it was such a cold morning that night; sothey all ran away that we catched, when we did notsee them. Then my master told my words to severalgentlemen that were at dinner with him, and they ad¬mired me for want of judgment, for my head was all ofa lump: adding, they were going a-fishing along withmy master and me in the afternoon ; but I told themthat it was a very unhappy thing for any man to goa hunting in the morning, and a fishing in the afternoon;they would try it, but they had better staid at home,6for it came on a most terrible fine night of south west rain,and even down wind; so the fishes got all below thewater to keep themselves dry from the shower, and wecatched them all but got none.Torn. How long did you serve that gentleman, Paddy.Tenrj. Arra, dear honey, I was with him six weeks,and he beat me seven times.Tom. For what did he beat you ? was it for yourmadness and foolish tricks ?Tear], Dear shoy, it was not; but for being too in¬quisitive, and going sharply about business. First, hesent me to the post-office to enquire if there were anyletters for him ; so when I came there, said I, is thereany letters here for my master to-day ? Then theyasked who was piy master; sir, said I, it is very badmanners in you to ask any gentleman’s name; at thisthey laughed, mocking me, and said they could give menone, if I would not tell my master’s name } so I re¬turned to my master and told him the impudence of thefellow, who would give me no letters unless I wouldtell him your name, master. My master at this flewin a passion, and kicked me down stairs, saying, go yourogue, and tell my name directly, how can the gentle¬man give letters when he knows not who is asking forthem. Then I returned and told my master's name, sothey tpld me there was one for him. I looked at it,being very small, and asking the price of it, they toldme it was sixpence, : sixpence, said I, will you takesixpence for that small thing, arid selling bigger ones fortwopence faith I am not such a big fool; you thinkto cheat me now, this is not a conscionahle way of deal¬ing, I’ll acquaint my master with it first; so I cameand told my master how they would have sixpence forhis letter, and was selling bigger ones for twopence ; lietook up my head and broke his cane with it, calling mea thousand fools, saying, the man was more just than totake any thing but the r ight for it; but I was sure therewas none of them r ight, buying and selling such dearpenny-worths. So I came again for my dear sixpence7letter ; and as the fellow wns shuffling through a parcelof them, seeking for it again, to make the best of a dearmarket, I pic t up two, and home I comes to my master,vhinkirig he would be pleased with what I had done ;now, said I, master, I think I have put a trick uponthem fellows, for selling the letter to you. What haveyou done ? I have only taken other two letters : here’sone for you master, to help your dear penny-worth, andI’ll send the other to my mother to see whether she bedead or alive, for she’s always angry I don’t write toher. I had not the word well spoken, till he got uphis stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent me backto the fellows again with the two. I had a very ill willto go, but nobody would buy them of me.Tom. Well, Paddy, I think you was to blame, andyour master too, for he ought to have taught you howto go about these affairs, and not beat you so.Teag. Ana dear honey, I had too much wit of myown to be teached by him, or any body else ; he beganto instruct me after that how I should serve the table,and such nasty things as those : one night I took ben aroasted fish in one hand, and a piece of bread in theother; the old gentleman was so saucy he would nottake it, and told me I should bring nothing to him with¬out a trencher below it. The same night as he wasgoing to bed, he called for his slippers and pish-pot, soI clapt a trencher below the pish-pot, and another belowthe slippers, and ben I goes, one in every hand; nosooner did I enter the room than he threw the pish-potat me, which broke both my head and the pish-pot atone blow ; now, said I, the devil is in my master alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time he counter¬mands at another. Next day I went with him to themarket to buy a sack of potatoes, I went to the potatoe-monger, and asked what he took for the full of a Scot’scog, he weighed them in, he asked no less than four-pence ; fourpence, said I, if I were but in Dublin, Icould got the double of that for nothing, and in Corkand Linsale far cheaper ; them is but small things like8pease, sail I, but the potatoes in my country js as big asyour bead, fine meat, all made up in blessed nibutld'uls ;(lie potatoe-merchant called me a liar, and my mastercalled me a fool, so the one fell a-kicking me, and theother a cuffing me, I was in such bad bread among them,that I called myself both a liar and a fool to get oilalive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes home fromthe market.Tmg. Arra dear shoy, I carried the horse and themboth, besides a big loaf, and two bottles of wine ; for Igut the old horse on my back, and drove the potatoesbefore me, and when I tied the load to the loaf, I hadnothing to do but to carry the bottle in my hand : butbad luck to the way as I came home, for a nail out ofthe heal of my foot sprung a leak in my brogue, whichpricked the very bone, bruised the skin, and made mybrogue itself to blood, and I having no hammer by me,but a hatchet I left at home, I had to beat down thenail with the bottom of the bottle: and by the book,dear shoy, it broke to pieces, and scattered the wine inmy mouth.Tom. And how did you recompense your master forthe loss of the bottle of wine ?Tmg. Arra dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himand myself too, for I took the bottle to a blacksmith,and desired him to mend it that I might go to the but¬cher and get it full of bloody water, but he told me hecould not work in any thing but steel and iron. Arra,said I, if I were, in my own kingdom, I could get ablacksmith who would make a bottle out of a stone, anda stone out of nothing.Tom. And how did you trick your master out of it PTowj. Why the old rogue began to chide me, askingme what way I broke it, then I held up the other ashigh as my head, and let it fall to the ground on a stone,which broke it all m pieces likewise J now said I, mas¬ter, that’s the' way, and he beat me very heartily untilI bad to shout oiit mercy and murder all at once.9Tom. Why did you not leave him when he used you*o badly.Twig. Arra, dear shoy, I could never think to leavehim while I could eat, he gave me so many good vic¬tuals, and promised to prefer me to be his own bone-picker. But by shaint Patrick, I had to run awaywith my life or all was done, else I had lost my dearshoul and body too by him, and then come home muchpoorer than I went away. The great big bitch dog,which was my master’s best beloved, put his head intoa pitcher, to lick out some milk, and when it was in liecould not get it out; and I to save the pitcher got thehatchet and cut off the dog’s head, and then I had tobreak the pitcher to get out the head; by this I lostboth the dog and the pitcher. My master hearing ofthis swore he would cut the head ofl' me, for the poordog was made useless, and could not see to follow anybody for want of his eyes. And when I heard of this,I ran away with my own head, for if I had wanted itI had lost my eyes too, then I would Pot have seen theroad to Port Patrick, through Glen-nap; but by shaintPatrick I came home alive in spite of them.Tom. O' rarely done, Paddy, you behaved like aman ! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleswear always by saint Patrick ?Tmg. Arra dear honey, he was the best shaint inthe world, the father of all good people in the kingdom,he has a great kindness for an Irishman, when he hearshim calling on his name.Tom. But, Paddy, is saint Patrick yet alive ?Tmt], Arra dear honey, I dont know whether he bedead or alive, but it is a long time since they killed him;the people all turned heathens, but he would not changehis profession, and was going to run the country with it,and for taking the gospel away to England, so thebarbarous tories of Dublin cutted off his head ; and heswimmed over to England, and carried his head in histeeth.~wPART II.Tom, How did you get safe out of Scotland ?7bag. By the law dear honey, when I came to PortPatrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew I was safeat home, but I was clean dead, and almost drowned be¬fore I could get riding over the water; for I with ninepassengers more, leapt into a little young boat, havingbut four men dwelling in a little house, in the one endof it, which was all thacked with deals: and after theyhad pulled up her tether-stick, and laid her long halterover her mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like threepair of blankets, to the riggen of the house, and the windblew in that, which made her gallop up one hill anddown another, till I thought she would have run to theworld’s end.Tom. Well Paddy, and where did you go when youcame to Ireland again ?Tcag. Arra dear honey, and where did I go but tomy own dear cousin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the. old buck his father; who died but a fewweeks before I went over, and the parish had to buryhim out of pity, it did not cost him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment did you get there?Teaff. O my dear shoy, I was kindly used as anothergentleman, and would have staid there long enough, butwhen a man is poor his friends think little of him: I toldhim I was going to see my brother Harry: Harry, saidhe, Harry is dead; dead said I, and who killed him ?Why, said he, death : Allelieu, dear honey, and wheredid he kill him ? said I. In his bed, says he. Arradear honey, said I, if he had been upon Newry moun¬tains with his brogues on, and his broad sword by hisside, all the death’s in Ireland had not have killed him:O that impudent fellow death, if he had let him alonetill he died for want of butter milk and potatoes, I amsure he had lived all the days of his life.Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you never11see none of your countrymen to inform you of whathappened at home concerning your relations ?Tcag. Arra, dear shoy, 1 saw none but Tom Jack,one day in the street; but when I came to him, it wasnot him, but one just like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling ?Teag. Why a recruiting sergeant listed me to be acaptain, and after all advanced me no higher than asoldier itself, but only he called me his dear countrymanrecruit; for I did not know what the regiment waswhen I saw them. I thought they were all gentle¬men’s sons, and collegioners, when I saw a box like abible upon their bellies ; until I saw G for King Georgeupon it, and R for God bless him: ho, ho, said I, Ishan’t be long here.Tom. O then Paddy you deserted from them ?Teag. That’s what 1 did, and ran to the mountainslike a buck, and ever since when I see any soldiers Iclose my eyes, lest they should look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you when you was asoldier PTeag. Arra, dear honey, I killed a man.Tom. And how did you do that ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, when he dropt his sword Idrew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and thencutted off his foot.Tom. O then what a big fool was you; for youought first to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore I engaged him, else I had not done it.Tom. O then Paddy you acted like a fool: but youare not such a big fool as many take you to be, youmight pass for a philosopher.Teag. A fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher, be¬sides he was a man under great authority by law, cou-' demning the just and clearing the guilty. Do you knowhow they call the horse’s mother?'Tom. Why they call her a mare.12Tmg. A mare, ay, very well minded, my father wasa mare in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Tedg. A bad luck to her own bairen belly, for shelived in great plenty, and died in great poverty; devouredup all or she died but two hens, and a pockful of potatoes,a poor estate for an Irish gentleman, in faith.'Tom. And what did you make of the hens, andpotatoes, did you sow them ?Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, I sowed them in my belly,and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What, business did your mother follow after ?Tmg, Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in ?Teag. Dear honey, she went through the country and.old small fishes, onions and apples, bought bens andfgjgs and then hatched them herself. I remember of along-necked cock she had, of an oversea brood, thatstood on the midden and picked all the stars out of thenorth-west, so they were never so thick there since.Tom. Now Paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all: but isthere none of that cock’s offspring alive now.Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, I don’t think there are, butit is a pity but they had, for they would fly with peopleabove the sea, which would put the use of ships out offashion, and nobody be drowned at all.Tom. Very well Paddy, but in all your travels didyou ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wicked wife too,and my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether she is gone toPurgatory, or the parish of Pig-Irantrum; for she toldme sb.e should certainly die the first opportunity shecould get, as this present evil world was not worththe waiting on, so she would go and see what goodthings is in the world to come; so when that old rover13Torn. O but Paddy, you ought to have gone U> adoctor, and got some pills and physic for her.Teag. By shaint Patrick, I had as good a pill of myown as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what I mean; youought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, andlet blood of her if he thought it needful.Tmg. Yes that’s what I did, for I ran to the doctorwhenever she died, and sought something for a dead c*dying woman; the old foolish devil was at his dinner,and began to ask me some dirty questions, which I an¬swered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ask Paddy ?Twig. Why, he asked me. How did my wife go tostool ? to which I answered, the same way that otherpeople go to a chair: no, said he, that’s not what Imean, how does she purge ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, saidI, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge her clean; forshe has both a cold and slinking breath. Sir, said he,that is not what I ask you ; whether does she shit thickor thin ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, said I, it is sometimes sothick and hard, that you may take it in your hand, andcut it like a piece of cheese, or pudding, and at othertimes you may drink it, or sup it with a spoon. Atthis he flew into a most terrible rage, and kicked medown stairs, and would give me nothing to her, butcalled me a dirty vagabond for speaking of shit beforeladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your wifewhen she died.Teag. O my dear shoy she was buried in all mannerof pomp, pride, and splendour: a fine coffin with cordsin it, and within the coffin along with herself, she got apair of new brogues, a penny candle, a good hard-headedold hammer, with an Irish sixpenny piece, to pay herpassage at the gate, and what more could she look for.'Torn. I reallv think vou crave her enough along with14Tmg, And why should I cry without sorrow ? whenwe hir; d two criers to cry all the way before her to keep11 1 " Hie fashion.Tom. And wliat do they cry before a dead woman ?Teag. Why they cry the common cry, or funerallament that is used in our Irish country.Tom. And what manner of cry is that Paddy ?Teag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I’ll tell you, whenany person dies, there is a number of criers goes before,saying, Lull, fiiff, fou, allelieu, dear honey, what aileththee to d-'e ! it was not for want of good buttermilk andpotatoes.PART III.Tom. Well Paddy, and what did you do when yomwife died ?Teag. Dear honey, what would I do ? do you think Iwas such a big fool as to die too, I am sure if I had Iwould not have got fair play when I am not so old yetas my father was when he died.Tom. No, Paddy, it is not that I mean, was yousorry, or did you weep for her?Tcag. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I would notweep, nor yet he sorry, suppose my own mother and allthe women in Ireland had died seven years before I wasborn.Tom. What did you do with your children when shedied ?Tcag. Do you imagine I was such a big fool as burymy children alive along with a dead woman; Arra, dearhoney, we always commonly give nothing along with adead person, but an old shirt, a winding sheet, a laghammer, with a long candle, and an Irish silver three¬penny piece ?Tom. Dear Paddy, and what do they make of allthese things ?Teag. Then Tom, since you are so inquisitive, youmust go ask the Priest.Tom. What did you make of your children Paddy ?15Tung. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that I should give them into the hands of thebutchers, as they had been a parcel of young hogs: byshaint Patrick I had more unnaturality in me, than toput them in an hospital as others do.Tom. No, I suppose you would leave them with yourfriends ?Tmg. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is sometimes worsethan a profest enemy, the best friend I ever had in theworld was my own pocket while my money lasted; butI left two babes between the priest’s door and the parishchurch, because I thought it was a place of mercy, andthen set out for England in quest of another for tune.Tom. I fancy, Paddy, you came off with what theycall a moon-shine flitting.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not see sun,moon, nor stars, all the night then : for I set out fromCork at the dawn of night, and I had travelled twentymiles all but twelve, before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping?Teag. Ana, dear honey, 1 came to a country villagecalled Dublin, as big a city as any market-town in allEngland, where I got myself aboard of a little youngboat, with a parcel of fellows, and a long leather bag.I supposed them to be tinklers, until I asked what theycarried in that leather sack; they told me it was theEnglish mail they were going over with; then said I, isthe milns so scant in England, that they must send overtheir com to Ireland to grind it, the comical cunningfellows persuaded me it was so: then I went down to alittle house below the water, hard by the rigg-back ofthe boat, and laid me down on their leather sack, whereI slept myself almost to death with hunger. And dearTom to tell you plainly when I waked I did not knowwhere I was, but thought I was dead and buried, for Ifound nothing all round me but wooden walls and timberabove.Tom. And how did you come to yourself to knowwhere you was at last.16Tcmj. By Uio law, dear slioy, I scraf.clied my headin a hundred parts, and then set me down to think uponit, so I minded it was my wife that was dead and notme, and that 1 was alive in the young boat, with thefellows that carries over the English meal from the Irishmilns.Tom. 0 then Paddy, I am sure you was glad whenyou found yourself alive ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I was very sure I was alive,but I did not think to live long, so I thought it wasbetter for me to steal and be hanged, than to live all mydays and die directly with hunger at last.Tom. Had you no meat nor money along with you PTmg. Arra, dear shoy, I gave all the money to thecaptain of the house, or gudeman of the ship, to take meinto the sea or over to England, and when I was like toeat my old brogues for want of victuals I drew myhanger and cut the lock of the leather sack to get a lickof their meal; but allelien, dear shoy, I found neithermeal nor seeds, but a parcel of papers and letters—apoor morsel for a hungry man.Tom. O then paddy you laid down your honesty foinothing.Tong. Ay, ay, I was a great theif but got nothing tosteal.Tom. And how did you get victuals at last?Tmg. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meat anddrink, death and life, and every thing else was out ofmind, I had not a thought but one.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. To go down among the fishes and become awhale; then I would have lived at ease all my days,having nothing to do but to drink salt water, and eatcaller oysters.Tom. What was you like to be drowned again ?Teag. Ay, ay, drowned, as cleanly drowned as a fish,for the sea blew very loud, and the wind ran so high,that we were all cast safe on shore, and not one of usdrowned at all.17Tom. Where did you go when you came on shore ?Teatj. Ana, dear honey, I was not aide to go anywhere, you might cast a knot on my belly, I was sohollow in the middle, so I went into a gentleman’s houseand told him the bad fortune I had of being drownedbetween Ireland and the foot of his garden; where wecame all safe ashore. But all the comfort I got fromhim was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Tmg. Why he told me, if I had been a good boy athome, I needed not to have gone so far to push my for¬tune wvitli an empty pocket; to which I answered, andwhat magnifies that, as long as I am a good workmanat no trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Paddy, the gentleman would makeyou dine with him ?Tmg. I really thought I was, when I saw themroasting and skinning so many black chickens which wasnothing but a few dead crows they were going to eat;ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at the best, of allthe fowls that flee, commend me to the wing of an ox:but all that came to my share was a piece of boiled her¬ring and a roasted potatoe, that was the first bit of breadI ever eat in England.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you followafter in England when you was so poor.Tmg. What sir, do yon imagine I was poor when Icame over on such an honourable occa ion as to list, andbring myself to no preferment at all. As I was an ablebotlied man in the face, I thought to be made a brigadeer,a grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, or even one of them blewgowns that holds the flerry stick to the bung-hole of thebig cannons, when they let them off, to fright away theFrench; I was as sure as no man alive ere I came fromCork, the least preferment I could get, was to be rid¬ing-master to a regiment of marines, or one of the bladehorse itself.Tom. And where in England was it you listed ?'Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, I was going through that_ 18little country village, the famous city of Chester, thestreets were very sore by reason of the hardness of myfeet, and lameness of my brogues, so I went but veryslowly across the streets, from port to port is a prettylong way, but I being weary thought nothing of it; thenthe people came all crowding to me as I had been aworld’s wonder, or the wandering jew; for the rain blewin my face, and the wind wetted all my belly, whichaaused me to turn the backside of my coat before, andiny buttons behind, which was a good safegaurd to mybody, and the starvation of my naked body, for I had nota good shirt.Tom. I am sure then, Paddy, they would take youfor a fool ?Tear),, No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdom,for I always turned my buttons before, when the windblew behind, but I wondered how the people knew myname and where I came from: for every one told another,that was Paddy from Cork: I suppose they knew myface by seeing my name in the newspapers.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you follow inChester ?Tear). To be sure I was not idle, working at nothingat all, till a deCruiting seargeant came to town with twoor three felloes along with him, one beating bn a fiddle,and another playing on a drum, tossing their airs thro’the streets, as if they were going to be married. I sawthem courting none but young men; so to bring myselfto no preferment at all, I listed for a soldier,—I was toobig for a graridedeer.Tom. What listing money did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Arra; dear shoy, 1 got five thirteens and a pairof English brogues ; ' the guinea and the rest or the goldwas sent to London, to the King, my master, to buyme new shirts, a cockade, amPcommon treasing for myhat, they mbde me swear tile'malicious oath of devilrieagainst the-'King;'the colours, and my captain, tellingme if ever I desert, and not run away, that I should heshot, and thcii whipt to death thrtfhgh the regiment.19Tom. No Paddy: it is first whipt and then shot youmean.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, it is all one thing at last, butit is best to be shot and then whipt, the cleverest wayto die I’ll warrant you.Tom. How much pay did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat seargeant thatfeed me to be a soldier ?Tom. And how should I know them I never saw youfool.Tcag. Dear shoy, you may know him whether yousee him or not, his face is all bored in holes with thesmall pox, his nose is the colour of a lobster-toe, andhis chin like a well washen potatoe, he’s the biggestrogue in our kingdom, you’ll know him when you meethim again: the rogue height me sixpence a day, kill orno kill: and when I laid Sunday and Saturday bothtogether, and all the days in one day, I can’t make apenny above fivepence of it.Tom. You should have kept an account, and aske£your arrears once a month.Teag. That’s what I did, but he reads a paternosterout of his prayer book, wherein all our names are written;so much for a stop-hold to my gun, to bucklers, to aoair of comical harn-hose, with leather buttons from topto toe ; and worst of all, he would have no less than apenny a week, to a doctor; arra, said I, I never hada sore finger, nor yet a sick toe, all the days of my life,then what have I to do with the doctor, or the doctorto do with me.Tom. And did he make you pay all these things ?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay: he took me beforehis captain, who made me pay all was in his book.Arra, master captain, said I, you are a comical sort ofa fellow now, you might as well make me pay for mycoffin before I be dead, as to pay for a doctor before Ibe sick; to which he answered in a passion, sir, said he,I have seen many a better man buried without a coffin;sir, said I, then I’ll have a coffin, die when I will, if20there be as much wood in all the work!, or I shall nothe buried at all. Then he called for the sergeant, say-ing, you sir, go and buy that man’s coffin, and put it inthe store till he die, and stop sixpence a week of his payfor it: No, no, sir, said I, I’ll rather die without a coffin,and seek none when I’m dead, but if you are for clippinganother sixpence off my pay, keep it all to yourself, andI'll swear all your oaths of agreement we had back again,and then seek soldiers where you will.Tom. O then Paddy, how did you end the matter ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, by the nights of shaint Patrickand help of my brogues, I both ended it, and mended it,for the next night before that, I gave them leg bail formy fidelity, and went about the country a fortune-teller,dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom. How old was you Paddy when you was a soldier-last ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all huttwo, and it is only two years since, so I want only four-years of three dozen yet, and when I live six dozen more.I’ll be older than I am, I’ll warrant you.Tom. O but Paddy, by your account, you are threedozen of years old already.Teag. O what for a big fool are you now Tom, whenyou count the years I lay sick; which time I count notime at all.A NEW CATECHISM, &c.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religion tell menow, Paddy, of what profession art thou ?Tmg. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carry out of mine own country: I was afraid(hat you English Presbyterians should pluck it away fromirie.Tom. What, Paddy, was your religion such a loadthat you could not carry it along with you ?Tmg. Yes, that it was, but I carried it always aboutwith me when at home, my sweet cross upon my dearbreast, bon ml to my dear button hole.21Tom. and what manner of worship did you peifwiwby that ?Teatj. Why I adored the cross, the pope, and thepriest, cursed Oliver as black as crow, and swears my¬self a cut throat against all Protestants and church ofEnglandmen.Tom, And what is the matter but you would be achurch of Englandman, or a Scotch Presbyterian your¬self, Paddy ?Tcncj. Because it is unnatural for an Irishman: buthad shaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I had been thesame.Tom. And for what reason would you be a Presby¬terian then, Paddy ?Tcarj. Because they have liberty to eat flesh in lent,and every thing that’s fit for the belly.Tom. What, Paddy, are you such a lover of flesh thatyou would change your profession.for itTcag. O: yes, that’s what I would, I love flesh of allkinds, sheep’s beef, swine’s mutton, hare’s Hesh, andhen’s venison; but our religion is one.of the hungriest inall the world, ah ! but it makes nry teeth to weep, andmy belly to water, when I see the Scotch Presbyterians,and English churchmen, in time of lent, feeding uponbulls’ bastards, and sheep’s young children.Tom. Why Paddy, do you say the bull is a fornicatorand gets bastards ?Tear/. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow and herhusband all the days of my life, nor before I was -born,going to the church to be married, and what tlien canhis sons and daughters be but bastards ?Tom. What reward will you get when you are dead,for punishing your belly so while you are alive ?'•Teag. By shaint Patrick I’ll live like- a king whenI’m dead, for I will neither pay for meat hof drink.Tom. What, Paddy, do you think that you are tocome alive again when you are dead ?Tcnrj. O yes, we that are true Roman Catholicswill live a long time after we are dead; when we die22in love with the Priests, and the good people of curprofession.Tom. And what assurance can your priest give youof that ?Tmg. Arra, dear slioy, our priest is a great shaint,a good shoul, who can repeat a pater-noster and AveMaria, which will fright the very horned devil himself,and make him run for it, until he be like to fall andbreak his neck.Tom. And what does lie give you when you are dyingthat makes you come alive again ?Tong. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues, seal¬ed with a wafer, gives us a sacrament in our mouth, witha pardon, and direction in our right hand, who to call forat the ports of Purgatory.Tom. And what money design you to give the priestfor your pardon ?Teag. Dear shoy I wish I had first the money hewould take for it, I would rather drink it myself, andthen give him both my bill and my honest word, payablein the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a passage to theother world, or who is to carry you there ?Teag. 0 my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothing ofthe matter: for when I die, they will bury my body,flesh, blood, dirt, and bones, only my skin will be blownup full of wind and spirit, my dear shoul I mean; andthen I will be blown over to the other world on thewings of the wind ; and after that Pll never be lulled,hanged nor drowned, nor yet die in my bed, for whenany hits me a blow, my new body will play bull’ upon itlike a bladder.Tom. But what way will you go to the new world,or where is it ?Teag. Arra, dec? shoy, the priest knows where it isbut I do not, but the Pope of Rome keeps the outer-port, shaint Patrick the inner-port, and gives us a direc¬tion of the way to shaint Patrick’s palace, which stands23«» the head of the Stalian loch, where I’ll have no moreto do but chap at the gate.Tom. What is the need for chapping at the gate, isit not always open ?Teaff. Dear shoy, you know little about it, for thereis none can enter but red hot Irishmen, for when I call■ Allelieu, dear honey, shaint Patrick countenance yourown dear countryman if you will, then the gates will beopened directly for me, fer he knows and loves an Irish¬man’s voice, as he loves his own heart,Tom. And what entertainment will you get when youare in ?Teag. O my dear, we are all kept there untill a generalreview, which is commonly once in the week ; and thenwe are drawn up like as many young recruits, and allthe blackgaurd scoundrels is pict out of the ranks, andone half of them is sent away to the Elysian fields, toturfy the weeds from* among the potatoes, the other halfof them to the River sticks, to catch fishes for shaintPatricks table, and them that is owing the priests anymoney is put in the black-hole, and then given to thehands of a great black bitch of a devil, which is keepedfor a hangman, who whips them up and down the smokydungeon every morning for six months.Tom. Well Paddy, are you to do as much justice toa Protestant as a Papist ?Teag. O my dear shoy, the most just’ce we are com¬manded to do a Protestant, is to whip and torment themuntil they confess themselves in the Romish faith ; andthen cut their throats that they may die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at'present ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor andmy supplication is as follows,paddy’s humble petition, or supplication.Good Christian people, behold me a man ! who has corn’dthrough a world of wonders, a hell full of hardships,dangers by sea, and dangers by land, and yet I am alive;you may see iny hand crooked like a fowl’s foot, and24that is no wonder at all considering my sufferings andsorrows. Oh! oh ! oh ! good people. I was a manin my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty of thesilver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter, thebeer, beef, and biscuit. And now I have nothing:being taken by the Turks and relieved by the Spaniards,lay sixty-six days at the siege of Gibraltar, and gotnothing to eat but sea wreck and raw mussels ; put tosea for our safety, cast upon the Barbarian coast, amongthe wicked Algerines, where we were taken and tiedwith tugs and ladders, horse-locks, and cow-chains:then cut and castcate yard and testicle quite away, putin your hand and feel how every female’s made smoothby the sheer bone, where nothing is to be seen but whatis natural. Then made our escape to the desart wildwilderness of Arabia; where we lived among the wildasses, upon wind, sand, and sapless ling. Afterwardsput to sea in the hull of an old house, where we weretossed above and below the clouds, being driven throughthickets and groves by fierce, coarse, calm, and contrarywinds: at last, was cast upon Salisbury plains, whereour vesse [was dashed to pieces against a cabbage stock.And now my humble petition to you, good Christianaeople is, for one hundred of your beef, one hundred ofyour butter, another of your cheese, a cask of your bis¬cuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of your rum, with a pipeof your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of your silver,- a few of your half-pence or farthings, a waught of yourbutter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, stockings, ordioes, even a thaw of tobacco for charity’s sake.