THE1Ijoitg Pack;OR, A! SHOT WITH COPENHAGEN.CONTAINISaAn Account of the accidental discovery of amost ingenious mode of Robbery.    —i—-FROM HOGG’S “WINTER EVENING TALES.”ALSO, FHOM THE SAME WORK,The Dreadful Story of Macpherson.THE LONG PACK.IN the year 1723, Colonel Ridley returnedfrom India, \frith what, in those days, wasaccounted an immense fortune, and retired to acountry seat on the banks of North Tyne inNorthumberland. The house was rebuilt andfurnished with every thing elegant and costly;and amongst others, a service of plate supposedto be worth j£1000. He went to London an¬nually with his family, during a few of the win¬ter months, and at these times there were butfew left at his country house. At the time weweat of, there were only three domestics remain¬ed there; a maid servant, whose name wasAlice, kept the house, and there were besides,an old man and a boy, the one threshed the^orn,and the other took care of some cattle, for thetwo ploughmen were boarded in houses of theirown.One afternoon as Alice was sitting spinningsome yarn for a pair of stockings to herself, apedlar entered the hall with a comical pack on hisback. Alice had seen as long a pack, and asbroad a pack; but a pack equally long, broad,and thick, she declared she never saw. It wasabout the middle of winter, when the days wereshort, and the nights cold, long, and wearisome.The pedUr was a handsome, well-dressed man,and very likely to be a very agreeable companion3for such a maid as Alice, on such a night as that;yet Alice declared, that from the very first shedid not like him greatly, and though he intro¬duced himself with a little ribaldry, and a greatdeal of flattery interlarded, yet when he came toask a night’s lodging, he met with a peremptoryrefusal; he jested on the subject, said he believ-: ed she was in the right, for that it would scarcely: be safe to trust him under the same roof withi such a sweet and beautiful creature—Alice wasan old maid, and any thing but beautiful—Hethen took her on his knee, caressed and kissedher, but all would not do. “ No, she would notconsent to his staying there.” “ But are yeni really going" to put me away to night ?” “ Yes.”1 Indeed, my dear girl, you must not be so un-i reasonable; I am come straight from Newcastle,i where I- have been purchasing a fresh stock ofi goods, which are so heavy, that I cannot travelI far with them, and as the people around are allI of the poorer sort, I will rather make you a pre¬sent of the finest shawl in my pack betoiw I gofurther.” At the mentioning of the shawl, thepicture of del beration was peurtrayed in livelycolours on Alice’s face for a little; but her pru¬dence overcame, ‘‘No, she was but a servant,and had orders to harbour no person about thehouse but such as came on business, nor thesei either, unless she was well acquainted with them.”] What the worse can you, or your master, or anyi one else be, of ruffe ring me to tarry until thei morning ?” “ I entreat you do not insist, forI here you cannot be.” “ But indeed, I am not! able to carry my goods further to-night.” “ Then4you must leave them, or get a horse to carry themaway.” “ Of all the sweet inflexiblo beings thatever were made, you certainly are the chief.But I cannot blame you, your resolution is justand right. Well, well, since no better may be,I must leave them, and go search for lodgingsmyself somewhere else, for, fatigued as I am, itis as much as my life is worth to endeavour car¬rying them further.” Alice was rather taken ather word: she wanted nothing to do with hisgoods : the man was displeased at her, and mightaccuse her of stealing some of them; but it wasan alternative she had proposed, and againstwhich she could start no plausibre objection; soshe consented, though with much reluctance.—“ But the pack will be better out of your way,”said he, “ and safer, if you will be so kind a«lock it by in some room or closet.,> She thenled him into a low parlour, where he placed itcarefully on two chairs, and went away, wishingAlice a good night.When old Alice and the pack W’ere left toge¬ther in the large house by themselves, she felt akind of undefined terror come over her mind aboutit. “ Wh^t can be in it,” said she to herself,(< that makes it so heavy ?” Surely when the mancarried it this leng.h, he might have carried itfarther too—It is a confoundedly queer pack;I’ll go and look at it once again, and see what Ithink is in it; and suppose l should handle it allround, I may then perhaps have a good guesswhat is in it.”Alice went cautiously and fearfully into theparlour and opened a wall-press—she wanted no-5Ithing in tlie press, indeed she never looked int«iit, for her eyes were fixed on the pack, and theilonger she looked at it, she liked it the worse;.and as to handling it, she would not have touched(it for all that it contained. She came again into|ths kitchen and conversed with herself. She[thought of the man’s earnestness to leave it—oflits monstrous shape, and every circumstance con-(nected with it—They were all mysterious, andIshe was convinced in her own mind, that thereiwas something uncanny if not unearthly in the(pack.What surmises will not fear give rise to in the(mind of a woman ! She lighted a moulded can¬dle, and went a^ain into the parlour, closed theiwindow shutters, and hatred them; but beforeIshe came out, she set herself upright, held in her■ breath, and took another steady and scrutinizing•.look of the pack. God of mercy ! She saw it•moving, as visibly as she ever saw any thing iniher life. Everv hair on her head stood upright.!Every inch of llesh on her body crept like a nestof pismires. She hasted into the kitchen as fastIas she could, for her knees bent under the terrorthat had overwhelmed the heart of poor Alice.She puffed out the candle, lighted it again, and,|not being able to find a candlestick, though aidozen stood on the shelf in the fore kitchen, she|set it in a water-jug, and ran out to the barn foriold Kichard. “Oh Richard! Oh, for mercy,IRichard, make haste, and come into the house.I Come away Richard.” “ Why, what is the mnt-:ter Alice ? what is wiong ?” Oh, Richard ! aHpedlar came into the hail entreating for lodging.6.Well, I would not let him stay on any account,and behold, he is gone off and left his pack.”“ And what is the great matter in that ?” saidRichard. “ I will wager a penny he will lookafter it, before it shall look after him.” “ But,oh Richard, I tretnble to tell you! We are allgone, for it is a living pack.” “ A living pack!”said Richard, staring at Alice, and letting Idachops fall down. Richard had just lifted his flailover his head to begin threshing a sheaf; butwhen he heard of a living pick, he dropped oneend of the hand-staff to the floor, and leaning onthe other, took such a look at Alice. Me knewlong before that Alice was beautiful; he knewthat ten years before, but he never took such alook at her in his life. “ A living pnek !” saidItichard. “ Why the woman is mad without alldoubt,” “ Oh, Richard ! come away, Meavenknows what is in it! but i saw it moving soplainly as i see you at present. Make haste, andeorne away Richard.” Richard did not stand toexpostulate any longer, nor even to put on hiscoat, but followed Alice into the house, assuringher by the way, that it was nothing but a whim,and of a piece with many of her phantasies.But,” added lie, “ of all the foolish ideas thatever possessed your, brain, this is the most un¬feasible, unnatural, and impossible. How cana pack, made up of napkins, and muslins, andcorduroy breeches, perhaps, ever become alive ?It is even worse than to suppose a horse’s hairwill turn an eel.” So saying, h? lifted the can¬dle cut of the jug, and turning about, never stop¬ped till he had laid his hand on the pack. He1felt the deals that Eurrcundeil its edges to preventthe goods being rumpled and spoiled by carrying,the cords that bound it, and the canvass in whichit was wrapped. “ The pack was well enough,he found nought about it that other packs wanted.1 It was just like other packs made up of the samestuff. He saw nought that ailed it. And a goodlarge pack it was. It would cost the honest man£200, if not more. It would cost him ^£300 r r£350 if the goods were fine. But he would makeit all up again by cheating fools like Alice, with! his gewgaws ” Alice testified some little disap¬pointment at soing Richard unconvinced, eveni by ocular proof. She wished she had never seen' him or it howsomever; for she was convincedi there was something mysterious about it; that! they were stolen goods or something that way ;' and sbe was terrified to stay in the house with it.. But Richard assured her the pack was a rightenough pack.During this conversation, in comes Edward.! He svas a lad about sixteen y-ears of age, son to. a coal-driver on the border—was possessed of agood deal cf humour and ingenuity, but some-‘ what roguish, forward, and commonly very rag-| ged in his apparel. He was about this time: wholly intent on shooting the crows and birds ofvarious kinds, that alighted in whole flocks where!i he foddered the cattle. He had bought a huge[j "dd military gun, which he denominated Copen-h'^en, and was continually thundering away atthen. He seldom killed any, if ever; but heonce ,r twjcc knocked off a few feathers, andafter mich narrow inspection, discovered some. 8drops of blood on. the snow. He waat>t this verymoment come in a great haste for Copenhagenhaving seen a glorious chance of sparrows, anda Robin-red-breast among them, feeding on thesite of a corn rick, but hearing them talk ofsomething mysterious, and a living pack, hepricked up his ears, and was all attention.—Faith Alice,” said he, “ if you will let me,I’ll shoot it.” “ Hold your paace, you fool,”taid Richard. Edward took the candle fromRichard, who still held it in his hand, and, glid¬ing down the passage, edged up the parlour door,and watched the pack attentively for about twominutes. He then came back with a spring, andwith looks very different from those which re¬gulated his features as he went down. As sureas he had death to meet with he saw it stirring.“ Hold your peace, you fool,” said Richard.Edward swore again that, he saw it stirring i butwhether he really thought so, or only said so, ishard to determine. “ Faith, Alice,” said heagain, “if you will let me, I'il shoot it.” “ Itell you to hold your peace, you fool,” saidRichard. “ No,” said Edward, “ in the multi¬tude of counsellors there is safety ; and I willmaintain this to be our safest plan. Our master’shouse is consigned to our care, and the wealththat it contains, may tempt some people to usestratagems. Now, if we open up the man’s pack,he may pursue us for damages to any amountbut if I shoot it what amends can he get of rr>i •If there is any thing that should not be t'eie.Lord how I will pepper it! And if it is ‘avOulgoods, he can only make me pay for thexew that9I are damaged, wtiich I will get at valuation; so,if none of you Viil acquiesce, I will take ?J1 theI blame upon myself, and ware a shot upon it.”1 Richard said whatever was the consequence heI would he blameless. A half delirious smite ra¬ther distorted than beautified Alice’s pretty face,I but Edward took it for an assent to what he had1 been advancing, so* snatching up Copenhageti! in one hand, and the candle in the Other, he! hasted down the passage, and without hesitating1 one momentj fired at the pack. Gracious He*.I vevi! i'he blood gushed out upon the floor tikea torrent, and a hideous roar, followed by thegroans of death, issued from the pack. Edvfarddropped Copenhagen upon the ground, and raninto the kitchen like one distracted. The kitchenwas darkish, for he had left the candle in thej parlour; so taking to the door without being ablei to utter a word, he ran to the^ hills like a wildi roe, looking over each shoulder as fast as he couldl turn his head from the one side to the other.—*Alice followed as fast as she could, but lost halfI the way erf Edward, bhe was all the way sigh-i ing arvi crying most pitifully. Old Richard stood! for a short space rather in a state of petrifaction*I but, at length, after some hasty ejaculations, he’ went into the parlour. I he whole floor flowedt with blood. The pack had thrown itself on the| ground ; but the groans and cries were ceased,; and only a kind of guttural noise was heard fromi it. Knowing that then something must be done,I he. /an after his companions and called on them1 t0 come back. Though Edward hail escaped agood way, and was still persevering on, yet, as10he npver fr.ck !cng tiire to consider of the utilityof -"iiv thiiig, but acted from immediate impulse,he turned and came as fast b’ck as he had goneaw. y. Alice also came homeward, but moreslowly, and crying even more bitterly than be¬fore. Edward overtook her, and was holding onIds course; but, as he passed, ehe turned awayher face apd ca.led him a murderer. At thescui cl of sHs epi'het Edward made a dead pause,and looked at Alme with a face much longer thanit used to be. He drew in his breath twice, asif going to speak, but be on’y swallowed a greatmouthful of air, and held his peace.They were scon all three in the parlour, andin no little terror and agitation of mind unloosedthe pack, the principal commodity of which wasa stout young man, whom Edward had shotthrough the heait, and thus bereaved of existencein a few minutes. To paint the feelings, or ev*nthe appearance of young Edward, during thisscene is impossible; he acted little, spoke less,and appeared in a hopeless stupor; the most ofhis employment consisted in gulping downmouthfuls of breath, wiping his eyes, and staringat his associates.it is most generally believed, that when Ed¬ward fired at the pack, he had not the most dis¬tant idea of shooting n man ; but seeing Alice soieaious of it he thought the Colonel would ap¬prove of his intrepidity; and protect him frombeing wronged by the pedlar ; and besides, heh?d never got a chance of a shot at scch a largething in his life, and was curious to tee how manyfolds of the pedlar's fine haberdashery w are Co11penhagcn would drive the drops through, to thatwhen the stream of blood burst from the pack,accompanied with the dying groans of a humanbeing, Edward was certainly taken by surprise,and quite confounded; he indeed asserted, aslohg as he lived, that he saw something stirringin the pack, but his eagerness to shoot, and histerror on seeing what he had done, which was nomore than what he might have expected, Iraki heheen certain he saw the pack moving, makes thisasseveration very doubtful. They made aU pos¬sible speed in extricating the corpse, interidingto call medical assistance, but it was too late;the vital spark was gone for ever. “ Alas !’*'Saidold Richard, heaving a deep sigh, ‘ poor man,!*t»s all over with him ! I wish he had lived a lit¬tle longer to have repented of this, for he hasi surely died in a bad cause. Poor man ! he wassomebody’s son, and no doubt dear to them, andi nobody can tell how small a crime this hath byi a regular gradation, become the fruits of.” Rich-i ard came twice across his eyes with the sleeve ofhis shirt, for he still wanted the coat; a thought: of a tender nature shot through his heart. “ Alas,if his parents are alive how will their hearts bearthis, poor creatures!” said Richard, weeping: outright, “ poor creatures ! God pity them !”The way that he was packed up was artful and: curious. His knees were brought up towards his: breast, and his feet and legs stuffed in a wooden: box; another wooden box, a size larger, andn wanting the bottom, made up the vacancy bc-: twixt his face and knees, and there being onlyone fold of canvass around this, he breathed with12freedom ; but it had undoubtedly beenthe heaving of his breast which had caused themovement noticed by the servants. His rightarm w as within the box, and to Jus hand wastied a cutlass, w th which he could rip himself,from his confinement at orce. There were alsofofir loaded-pistols secreted with him, and a silverwind caH. On coming to the pistols and cutlass.“ Viilain,” said old Richard, “see what he has'here. Bui I.sbould not call him villain/’ said heagaiiV, softening his tone, ‘‘for he, is now goneto answer at that bar where no false witness, norloquacious orator, can bias the justice of the sen¬tence pronounced on him. He is now in thetrue world, and I am in the false one. We. canjudge only from appearances, but thanks to ourkind Maker and Preserver, that he was discover¬ed* else it is probable that none of us should haveagain seen the light of day.” These moral reflec-licns from the mouth of old Richard by degreesraised the spirits of Edward: he was bewi’Jeredin uncertainty, and had undoubtedly given him¬self up for lost •, but he now began to discoverthat J.? had Alone a meritorious and manful action,and for the fitSt time, since he had fired the fatalshot, ventured to speak, “ Faith it was lucky thatI sliot then,” said Edward; but neither of hiscompanions answered either good cr bad. Alice,though rathex grown desperate, behaved and as¬sisted at this bloody affair, better than might hav«teen expected. Edward surveyed fh1 pistols allsound, two of which were of curious workman¬ship, *• But what do you think he was going todo with all these r” said Edward. “ l think youneed ifot aslc-tbst,” Richard tms'vered. • “ Faitiiit was a mercy that I shot after all,’' Said Edward >f‘for if we had loosed him out, we should havebeen ail dead in a mir.ute. i have given him adevil of a broadside, though. But look ye Rici i-ard, Providence'has directed fneto the right spo t*for I might as readily have lodged the contents ofCopenhagen in one of these empty boxes.’’ “ ft.has been a dtep laid scheme,’’ said Richard, “ tomurder us, and rob out master’s house; thieromust certairdy be more concerned in it than thes*twoIdeas beget ideas, often quite different, andthen others agsirl' in unspeakaWe grada»k>n, whichrun through and shift in the mind wid'* as muchvelocity as'the streamers around thr- pole in a(frosty night. On Richard’s ment’idning moreiconcerned, Edward instantaneously thought of a;gang of thieves by night,—How he would breakI the leg of one*—shoot another th rough the headj—and scatter them like chaff fjefore the wind.He would rather shtkrt one ror ber on his feet orion horseback than ten lying tied* up in packs; andI then what a glorious prey of pistols he would get(from the dead rascals*—how he wctftd prime and(load and fire away with pet.fec: safety from wilh-fin f—how Alice would scream, and Richardwould pray, and all wo’jld go on with t’.e noiseland rapidity ot a wind rniil. and he would acquire'everlasting fame. Sr> high was the yOtfhg andmrdent mind of Ed;/ ard wrought up b^ this trainlof ideas, that he wa s striding up and down the(floor, while his ey,e8 gleamed as with a tirit ofmadness. “ Oh 1 if I had but plenty of guns.♦143 nd nothing ado but to shoot, how I would pep-p er the dogs !'•’ s-dd he with great vehemence^, totl ic no small astonishment of his two assochtes,who thought him gone mid ‘ What can thofa o) mean ?” said old Richard, “ vVhat can heail at the dogs “ Oh, it is the robbers that Inn ‘an,” said Edward, “ What robbers, youyovung fool ?" said Richard. “ Why, dp not youthink that the pedlar will come back at the deadof the iiight to the assistance of his friend, andbring plenty or help with him too,” said Edward.“ Cher e is not a doubt of it,” said old Richard.“ There is not a doubt of it,” said Alice, andboth ston'd up stiff with fear and astonishment;“ Oh! merciful tleiven ! what is to become ofua,’’ said *\lice again, “ What are we to do“ Let us trcist in the Ijord,” said old Richard.** l intend, in the first place, to trust in old Co¬penhagen,” said Edward, putting down the friz-zcl, and making it spring up again with a loudsnap five or six t imes, “ But, good Lord I what•are we thinking about ? 111 run and gather in|all the guns, in the county.” The impulse of themoment was Edward’s monitor. Oft he ran like}fire, and warned a few of the Colonel’s retainers^who he knew kept gutjs about them; these againiwarned others, and at eight o’clock they had!twenty-five men in the house, and sixteen loadedpieces, including Copenhagen, and the four pis-|tols foundfon the deceased!. These were distri¬buted amongst the front windows in the uppeistories, and the rest armed \ivith pitchforks, ole;swords, and cudgels, kept watch below. Ldwarchad taken care to place himself', with a comrade15lat a window immediately facing the approach tothe house, and now, backed as he was by such astrong party, grew quite impatient for another'chance with his redoubted Copenhagen. Ml,however, remained quiet until an hour past mid¬night, when it entered into his teeming brain toblow the thief’s silver wind-call v so, withoutwarning any of the rest, he set his head out at■Ithe window, and blew ut#<lj ail the hills andwoods around yelled their echoes. This slarmpdthe guards, as not knowing the meaning of j)t»but how were they astoru3hed at, hearing it an¬swered by another at no great di8tance* Thestate of anxiety into which this sudden and un¬foreseen circumstance threw our armed peasanfs,is more easily conceived than described. Thefate of their master’s great wealth, apd even theirown fates, was soot/ to be decided, and none butHe who surveys and ovev-rults futurity could tellwhat was to be the issue. Every breast heavedquicker, every breath was cut short, every gunwas cocked and pointed toward thg court-gate*(every <ja> of viaion was strained to discover thelapproaemng foe, by the dim light of die, starrycanopy, and every tar expanded to catch the dis¬tant sounds as they floated on tf1® slow frostybreeze.-the fufpence was not of loirg continuance. Inless than hve minutes the trampling of horseswas heard, winch increased as they approachedito the ncise of thunder, and in due course, a bodyof men on horseback, according to the accountgiven by the Colonel’s people, exceeding theirown number, came up at a brisk tvet, audb.gan16to enm- the c'ourt-gtfth. Edward, unable to istrairi himself ahf longer, fired Copenhagentheir face*1; one of the foremost drepped, and I•horse •made a spritijr to’wards the hall door, ft■discharge ■was rather premature, as the wall a;shielded a! patt of the gang from the windowIt was, however, the watchword, to all the re;and in the course of two seconds, the whole siteen guns werd diicherged at them. Before tsthoke dispersed they wet<3 all fled, no dotsgreatly aditized at the reception which they inWith. EdWhtd and his comrade rin down stc’to see how matters stood, for it was their opuon that they had shot them every one, and ththeir horses had taken fright at the noise, aigallopped off without them i but the club b?loWarmly protested against theft opening the do'till dayi!s6 they wdreObliged to betake themselvagain to their birth up stairs.Though ear peasants had gathered up a litttcourage and confidence in themselves* their sit-ation was curious, and to them a dreadful on*they saw and heard a part ef their fellow eretares moaning and expiring in agonitsin the op*airi which was intensely cold, yet durst not $to administer the least relief, for fear of a suprise. An hour or two after this great brusEdward and his messmate descended again, anbegged hard for leave to go and reconnoitre fa few minutes, which after some disputes \rgranted. They found only four men fallen, wlappeared to be all quite dead. One of them wlying within the porch. “ Faith,” said Edwarhere’s the chap that I shot.” The other thr17ere without at a considerable distance from eachher. They durst not follow their track farther,the road entered betwixt groves of trees, buttreated into their posts without touching anying.About an hour before day, some of them werearmed at hearing the sound of horses feet a•cond time, which, however, was only indistinctid heard at considerable intervals, gnd nothingf them ever appeared. Not long after this,dward and his friend were alnaost frightened outt their wits, at seeing, as they thought, the deadian wjjhin the gate, endeavouring to get up andscape. 1 hey had seen him dead, lying surround-i by a deluge of congealed blood, and nothingut the ideas of ghosts and hobgoblins enteringicir brains, they were so indiscreet as never tolink of firing, but ran and told the tale of hor-ar to some of their neighbours. The sky wasy this time grown so dark, that nothing coulde seen with precision, and they all remained in■nxious incertitude, until the opening day dis-overed to them, by degrees, that the corpsesvere removed, and nothing left but large sheetsf frozen blood, and the morning’s alarms by the[host and the noise of horses, had been occasion-d by some of the friends of the man that hadiallen, conveying them awav for fear of a dis-;overy.i Next morning the news flew like fire, and thejhree servants were much incommoded by crowdsif idle and oflicious people that gathered aboutjhe house, some inquiring wfter the smallest par-sculars, some begging to see the body that layin the parlour, snd others pleased themselves wiporing over the sheets of crimson ice, and tractthe drops of blood on the road down the wotThe Colonel had no country factor, nor any p;ticular friend in the neighbourhood, so the ;fair was not pursued with that speed which wrequisite to the discovery of the accomplicwhich if it had, would have been productivesome very unpleasant circumstances, by jnvolvisundry respectable families, as it afterwards apeared but tao evidently. Dr. Herbert, the phsician, who attended the family occasionaKwrote to the Colonel, by post, concerning taffair, but though he lost no time, it was the fiiday before he arrived. Then indeed advertlsments were issued, and posted tip in all pubplaces, offering rewards for a discovery of aperson killed or wounded of late. All the deand sick within twenty miles were inspectedmedical men, and a most extensive search macbut to no purpose. It was too late : all was scured. Some indeed were missing, but plausi*pfetetrees being made for their absence, nothicould be done. But certain it is, sundry of thewere never seen any more in the country, thoumany of the neighbourhood declared they wdsuch people as nobody could suspect.The body of the unfortunate man, who wshot in the pack, lay open for inspection a fonight, but none would ever acknowledge so mu•as having seen him. The Colonel then canshirn to be buried at Bellingham ■, but it was ccfide-ntly reported, that his grave was opened ahis corpse taken away. In short, not one e19|aged in this base and bold attempt wzs ever dis-tovered. A constant watch was kept by nightnr some time. The Colonel rewarded the de¬coders of his house liberally. Old Richard re-aained in the family during the rest of his life,nd had a good salary for only saying prayersimongst the servants every night. Alice wasjnarried to a tobacconist at Hexam. Edward washade the Colonel’s gamekeeper, and had a pre»lent of a fine gold mounted gun given him. Hiskiatter afterwards procured him a commission ini regiment of foot, where he suffered many mis-lortunes and disappointments. He was shotthrough the shoulder at the battle of Fontenoy,imt recovered, and retiring on half-pay, took aimall farm on the Scottish side. His characterwas that of a brave, but rash officer; kind, gen¬erous, and open-hearted in all situations. I havebften stood at his knee and listened with wonderlind amazement to his stories of battles and seiges,out none of them ever pleased me better than thatbf the Long Pack.Alas ! his fate is fast approaching to us all ?ihe hath many ye.rs ago submitted to the con-iqueror of all mankind. Mis brave heart is nowa clod of the valley, and his gra^ hairs recline inipeace on that pillow from which his head shallibe riiscd only when time shall be no more.20THEDreadful Story of MacphersouI received yours of tk * 20th October, Intreating me to furnish you with the tale, which yosay you have heard me relate, concerning thmiraculous death of Major Macpherson, ami hiassociates, among the Grampian hills. I thinthe story worthy of being preserved, but I neveheard it related save once; and though it theimade a considerable impression on my mind, being told by one who was well acquainted botlwith the scene and die sufferers, yet I fear m-memory is not sufficiently accurate, with regar*to particulars; and without these the interest oa story is always diminished, and its authenticityrendered liable to be called ia question. I wilhowever communicate it exactly as it remains impressed on my memory, without avouching fo;the particulars relating to it; in these 1 shall sub¬mit to be corrected by such as are better imformed.I have forgot what year it happened, but ]think it was about the year 1805-G, t^at MajoiMacpherson and a few gentlemen of Ins acquain¬tance, with their attendants, went out to hunt inthe middle of that tremendous range of mourntains which rise lefcween Athol and Uadenoch*21"any arc the scenes of wild grandeur and rug-;d deformity which amaze the wanderer in therampian deserts: but none of them surpassesnis in wildness and still sublimity. No sounddates the listening ear, but the rushing torrent,■ the btoken eldrich bleat of the mountain goat,[he glens are deep and narrow, and the hillsieep and sombre, and so high, that their gtizlynmmits appear to be wrapped in the blue veiliiat canopies the air. But it is seldom that their►ps can be seen •, for dark clouds of mist oftenlist upon them for several weeks together iniimmer, or wander in detached columns amongkiir cliffs ; and during the winter they are aban-tmed entirely to the storm. Then the floodedirrents and rushing wreaths of accumulated(tows spend their fury without doing harm topy living creature; and the howling tempest»,ves uncontjolled and unregarded.1 Into the midst of this sublime solitude did ourivial party wander in search of their game;-*-hey weie highly successful. The heath cocktas interrupted in the middle of his exultinghirr, and dropped lifeless on his native waste;te meek prarmigan fell fluttering among her greyrusted stones, and the wild-roe foundered in the>rrei. The noise of the guns, and the cheeringties of the sportsmen, awakened those echoes•tat had so long slept silent; the fox slid quietly’’'er the hill, and the wild deer bounded away;to the forests of Glendee from before the noisyvaders.In the afternoon they stepped into a little bothy,r resting lodge, that stood by the side of a rough22mountain sfe-im, and having meat and drintthey abandoned themselves to mirth and jollity.This Major Macpherson was said to have beeguilty of some acts of extreme cruelty and injiu,tice in raising recruits in that country, and wason that account, held in detestation by the corrmon people. He was otherwise a respectablcharacter, and of honourable connexions, as wer-also the gentlemen who accompanied him.When their hilarity was at the highest pitclere ever they were aware, a young man stood before them, of a sedate, mysterious appearancelooking sternly at the Major. Their laughter wahushed in a moment, for they had not observeany human being in the glen, save those of the:own party, nor did they so much as perceive whetheir guest entered. Macphersoh appeareel paiticularly struck, and somewhat shocked at thsight of him the stranger beckoned to the Majowho followed him instantly out of tiie bothyThe enriosity of the party was aroused, and thewatched their motions with great punctualitythey walked a short way down by the side of thriver, and appeared in earnest conversation forfew minutes, and from some involuntary motiorof their bodies, the stranger seemed .o be threaening Macpherson, and the latter intercedingthey parted, and though then not above twenlyards distant, before the Major got half way oacto the bothy, the stranger guest was gone, arthey saw no more of him.« I cannot tell how the truth may be,“ I say the tale as ’twas said to me.”But what was certainly extraordinary, after tl23padful catastrophe, though the most strict andended inquiry was made, neither this stranger,r his business, could be discovered. The couh-lance of the Major was so visibly altered on hisurn, and bore such evident marks of trepida-n, that the mirth of the party was marred dur-r the remainder of the excursion, and none oftm cared to ask him any questions concerning, visitant, or die errand that he came on.iThis was early in the week, and on the Friday^mediately following, Macplierson proposed toi; companions a second expedition to the moun-:ns. They all objected to it on the account ofp weather, which was broken and rough ; butj persisted in his resolution, and finally toldpm, that he must go and wouul go, and those;io did not chnse to accompany him might tarry•home. The consequence was, that the samerty, with the exception of one man, went a-iin to hunt in the forest of Glenmore.iAlthough none of them returned the first nightier their departure, that was little regarded ; itling customary far the sportsman to lodge oc-sionally in the bothies of the forest j but when;turday night arrived, and no word from them,jsir friends became dreadfully alarmed. Onnday, servants were despatched to all the innsd gentlemen’s houses in the bounds, but no ac-lunts of them could be learned. One solitaryg only returned, and he was wounded anditimed. 1 he alarm spread—a number of peopleie, and in the utmost consternation went to>rch for their friends among the mountains,i hen they reached the bothy—dreadful to r«-24late 1—they found the dead bodies of the whoparty lying scattered about the place ! Some Ithem were considerably mangled, and one neasi;severed in two.—Others were not marked by a-;woundj of which number I think it was said tMajor was one, who was lying flat on his fa<liIt was a scene of wo?, lamentation, and awful atonishment, none being able to account for whhad happened ; but it was visible that it had nbeen effected by any human agency. The bot (was torn from its foundations, and scarcely ;vestige of it left—its very stones were all scattted about in different directions ; there was ohuge corner stone in particular, which twelliraeri could scarcely have raised, that was toss ito a considerable distance, yet no marks of eith Ifire or water were visible. Extraordinary as tlstory may appear, and an extraordinary story •certainly is, I have not the slightest cause idoubt the certainty of the leading circumstanawith regard to the rest, you have them as I hithem, (n every mountainous district in Scotlatto this day, a beliet in supernatural agency p;}vails, in a greater or lesser degree. Such an a;ful dispensation as the above, was likely to akindle every lingering spark of it.