THEhistoryOF:iTack and the Giants,IN ALL ITS PAHT3.eORTAlWlNS):! I, s Birth and Parer.lage, bis Dispute•tciib a Country Vicar, &cI II. How be fkiu a monstrous Giant on the Mou*»of Cornwall ana got the name of Jack theGiant-Killer.'Jl III, lioiv King Arthur's So;: met with ‘jack,and the wonderful Things they performed inI thetr Travels.:ii IV. Hoiu fack faved bis Master's life, and drovethe evil Spirit out of a Lady, &c.V. With a full account of bis victorious Con¬quests over the north country darts, bowbe destroyed tie enchanted Castle ieptby Golhgantus, disperfed the fiery Griffinstt pnt she Conjurot to flight, released many La¬dies and Knights, likewise a Duke s daugh¬ter whom he afterwards married—withmaty more of bis Adventures.iVtntcd by J. MorrerHIS l CRY07JACK AND THE giants.PART I.Qfbis Birth and Parentage, andsehat passed |between bint and the Country- Vicar, &c.IN the reign of King Arthur, near the Land* ,end of H-nglanti, namely in the cou»ty ofCornwall there lived a wealthy farmer, whohad one only fon, commonf Cnown by the nameof !ack. He was briflc, and of a lively readywit: fo that whatever he could not perform by ,ftrength, he complete d by ingenious wit rtfd po¬licy; never was any perfon heard of that couldword hiraj nay, the very learned, many time*,lie baffled by his cunning, (harp, and ready in¬ventions.tor iifflance, when he was no more thanfeven years of age, his father the farmer fenthim into the held to look after his oxen, whichwere then feediag in a pleafant pafture, A coun¬try vicar, by chance one day, coming acrofs thefield, called Jack and aiked himleveral queiHons j .in particular how many commandments therowere ? Jack told him there were nine. The . ar-£>n replied, there are ten, Nay, quoth Jack,nailer patfon 70a are out of that; it it true theyrrera tea, but you broke one er them with your•w* maid rdargery The p .r on repled, thou tart an arch wag Jack VVeli, matter partonquoth Jack, you have afke 1 ra^ one qutilion,and 1 have arfwered it; i beieech you, At .neaft ycu another* JATho made thefe oxcuf TueTHE HISTORY‘Oil Jkc. 3"irfon replied,isSdt themthi’^i. You at® £otvagain quoth Jackj for -Got’ rtiud# t,berti.l?^llajit my father autl hi* ■Hjatj Hobfos, made oxe»Jj ' them .Th.efe were tlv . witty exploits ofIfe patfoo finding himfelf fool’d, trudg’d' jt^py,living Tacit in a fit'ot'ldughter.1—’ ® ■» . ~ tqUotn 3 ■ ti a PXB auto>Xfi,7i?w a- Gimtxinbaiitetj- the Motml.. q/’.GormvaLandfpotted the< country tbSvtabQ,ut,. , o; >N thofe days, the modntof Gd.-n^all WafskeDtI by a huge and rrionftrous giant, of tw^nty^fS-ien feet in height,- and about ' thrp'e *bmpas of a fietce prim countenance', to theor of all the ritdghBouriMg' towns and vfllslgeb.11 /Tiis habkdtion;'wd^ fcave in the nfidllVdf the . ^forint,' neither would Hi fu'ffer anyTiVihg crea-p^e to inhabit'n^jir hirh;1 his f-e>iing was Sponlither men S eattle, which •fofttn became his prhy, 0il)r whcr.foever he had occafion for food, -hC ’•»ould wade ovdt^'the main land w here he Wohid rrrnith himfelf with what^vib'he coaid find,— :or1 the people ht -his approach, woul t forfakeicir hahkatioi si X-iitYi WOuld he ftize uponsir Cows and OXen? ot which die Would thinkthing to cans over on his> bock half a doeentime; and as for the (hetp and hogs,'heon 14 tie them round his wafft like d-bunohnofbauualiers. This he had'for m*ry year* prac-A ifea in Corn wall, which wss'very much impo- on'r ’enftied by hibu ; . 0 . y v • j o . : orf Mut one- day Jack coming to .the town-hall;J il heo the magsltrates. were fi ling in conljifrsj?*irion about :tbe giant, i-.c akect them WUptifeH.flirard they would giyt to any perion tbat -rwouldtlefiroy himi They anfweiehe UioclddmveH the giant’s treafure in recompeuet, Qyotlt:acit> then I myfelf mil undertake th; ov-otki • . j•I3ii *1 3U blued)U *■>44 i.o'-. THE luSTORY. OFHero y 'cclt slew ibis Giant, and go; the name ofir^xo afc. Jack the Giant-killer.JACK f'.aving r-n^crtaker- ti.is tafli, he Farwttir'd liiraieH with a.horn, a (hove! an<i a |pick axe and over to the mount he '.^oes, in theheginMng'of a dark wmter^ eVeniHg, wnert hefell to work, and beforv morning hod digged aj)itv.aud ^oveicd theiame pyer,with long (lick*and ft raw, then ftrowed a little of the mould up¬on it. fo that it appeared likr the.plain grou.id.Th^s done. Jack places himlelf on th< contra-ryfihe of the pi1., juft about the dawning of theday, when puttin ’,ni* horn hit mouth, hethen blew t*n troivie tan ttoiwe Which unex-pfette* noiitrcuz d tht giant, who came roaringtow'ardsjack er^ingou^you incorrigible villain,•re fou come hither tod iliurb my red ; you (hallpa\ demly for it; fatisfac ion 1 (hall have andit (hull be this; I wdll akt you wholly and broilyou* for my breakfatt—-which words c ere noiooner out of his mouth, but t»e tumbled head¬long it to the d rp pit w hofe heavy fall madele v rv foundation o£the mount to (hake,theL h ! giant where re you now i faith, you areget into ! ohA Pond where I fhdl plague you ifor vour thrratring words & hat do you thinknoc. ot broi.ing me for* VwUr breakfsft? will noother diet let v you but poor Jack? Thus hav¬ing tantaliis’d thegiart fora while, he gave hi»a \vei?hty knp.ck apon the crown of the headwith his pick axe, lo that he immediately tum¬bled down g:ive amoft dreadful groan and died.This none, Jack threw the earth upon him andfo but ried him; then going and fearching the'1ooVe he t* u t't a great quantity of trealure,Kow when the magilfritcs who enjoyed himkca’d th, t it was over, they f» nt for dim anddeclared, that he fhould be theticelorth calledJ KCK 4KD TliK GTTS. 5;| Jack the-giant k;lie!-. And in honour thereof,i they prefented him with afword, tng^£her witha fine rich tmbroideFed b. .t, on v^ nich t’hefeword* were wrott inletteri ot goid,litre's the rtirir val:ant Corrrrflj itian,<*>bc sleto rljgran: CaimiUoH.;S!\ ifow foc'k. •abiie. qsletp. ipaf, taken, c, {riant,-tf.d Ol-w h. got bis liberty a gam1 rT**-lK news of h'ck s victory:v\ a^. lorn 'fptead^ over art the wtfi in p.i-ts; wh n anrhn-rJ■r«Jhuge gidm named'Tiiunceiboa), hearrog'of it,'i Towed -to fee*'revenged on^Jaek, ii ever dr. wa»ii| his fortune to meet with him- l h a giant keptS an tnchgnted caiile^fituated in the midit of alonefome wood. Now jack about tour monthsafter, walking cn the borders of she faiu wood,on hit journey toward* Wales, grew.very wea¬ry, and therefore fat. ^imfeU doun by the fidev ll of a plenfant fountain, where a det p lleep f«d-,r! denly feize’d Mm: at which time th^. giant com¬ing thither for water, found him, and by thera.’ll'lilies writteh ofi his belt, knew him io be jacl'that kiHed his brother giant, and'therefo: e w ith-out'making any words, he threw himupon his,«lJ back, to car.-' him to his eneb; oted calUe.Now as they' pafised th.ro’ a t hicket, the ruf¬fling'of the boughs awaked poor Jack, who rind¬ing himfelf in the clutches of the giant, was iud~denly furprifed, but it was but the beginning ofhis terrors j Tor, at, the entering w ithin the firHwalls of the cafUe, he beheld the ground all co¬vered with bocea and Ikulls of dead men ; thugiant telling Jack, that his bones would enlargethe number that he few. This faid, he broughthim into a larjp parlour, where he beheld thebloody quarters of fomc who were lately {lain* a.nd in the next roam, were many hearts and h--tir j .2^ '/ ir‘ "5(jy aTH£: HISTOR'TOff'.'‘^e^iWllfcUthe gijmt,'to terrify Jack told hert T?iat ro«nk hearts atnllivers were the choifof his diet. For he commonly (as he faid)atetHei|44 wUsa pepper and vinegar, iaddi^g^tlnt he dij“ hot queftion imt.hjs.hnart vnoijld make him** dainty bit-M This fai.i, he locks pooran' upper room leaving him there, while he verto fetch anotlkr giant’living in the fame wootthat ht might be partaker in the pleafiif e whicthey would have in thedeftractibnof poor jUcltNow, while he was gone.dreadful fliriek^ anicries affrighted jack, efpecially a voice widecontieualy cried.Do vihat you can to getawaysOr you'll become the giaut'-s prky. J-■ He'} gone to fetch his brolher whoV.Ttl hkewife kill anH'tbrtureyou.This dreadful noife fo amazed poor Jack, that!"he was ready .to run deftrac' ed, then feeingfromithe window afar off the two'glams' coming thi¬ther, now quoth Jack to himself, my. death ordeli verdict is at hand, MThere was ftrong cords in fh.e room by him**of which, he takes two, at t he end of which he* |make* a fioole, and **ihile the giant was unlock¬ing the irpn gate he threw the-t opes over eachof their heads, and then (ir wTrg the c-ther endacrofs the beam, when he pulled' with ali bis' main lircngth, until he nad thfoatled them; andthen.faflmog th-: r6pe to ‘be,.beam, turning tc-warcls1'fhe window, vhite he beheld, the twbgu;ants to be Mhdk in their f.ice^; then Hiding downby the rope he came clofer to their heads, wherethe helplels giants could not defend themfelves,asid drawing ©ut his 1‘word, flew' them both, and I‘ delivered Ivrnfelf from rheir intended cruelty# iThen' taking the bunch o‘f keys, he dnloeked tbsrooms where, upon a ftrict fearch, he foundGadammaSiwl' ri *4•"iv:i>'•41itH:!• 5"l4\1ar.«eJ\fcK AND TI1£ GIAN Fi.three fair htiies, tied by the hair of their heads,almojf ftarved t« death, who told Jack that theirhusband* were slain by the giant, and that theywere kept many days without'food, in order toforce them to feed upon the flefit of their hus¬bands, which they could net, though they fhouldhe llafved to death.S ,vect ladies, quoth Jack, I have*hi* monger and his brutifh brother, b'^ w>,ic||I have sbtainded your liberties* pa-,^ .},eprefented them with the key* rJi t^e cafile.’an^fs proceeded on his journev toMow 'Jack travelled iv‘(9 Flintshire^ and whathappened..J ACK having jut very little money, thoughtit prudent ro make the belt ofui* way by tra¬velling as fell as he could; but lofin,' his road,was benighted, and cor.ld not get a ;4ncs of en¬tertainment, until b's came to a valley placedbetween two hilte. where flood a large houfe ma lonefome pfe'ce, and by reafon of his prefentcondition, he took courage to knock at the gate,and to ?iis furprife. there came forth a raon-ftr«'uS giant having two heads, yet lie did not foesafo fiery as the others had been, for he was aWelch giant, and what he did was by privateand fecret malice, uader the falfe Ibow of friend-fhip; Jack telling his condition, he bid him wel-••me. fhowing him a room and a bed in it,whereupon he might take this nights repofe.—«Therefore Jack undrefsed himtelf, and as thegiant was walking te another apartment Jaekheard him mutter to himfelf thete words:-—Tht>y here you lodge with me this nightyTon shall not see the morning light.My club shall dash your brains out rights.Say’tt thon fo, quoJack, that 13 like ogg ofJ f iHR UMORV uty#ur WeKh tack* yet < hope to he cunninj; e- 1Tiough f >r vou Then getting out of bea he puts a | .billet in his ftea'i, and hid hmfelf in a corner oftl:e room and in the dead of the night the tiant«a?ne rith hrs great knotty club an ! ilm k fe«Ternl iveiglity bio - s opon -the heel when jackhad been lying, and then returns,i to hi* i? ownchamber auppofing lie .had broke ill the bore* 1in bis oodyIn the morning pcVgsye him beauty thark*for hie 1 -icjng I’hi; gi tr laid to him how ‘ avCyou reiteh? did ou not feel 'omethi ig in theb;,-ht? nothingrplnth J ck, bu' a rat which ave 1tne three or four Jiaps wii n her t- il. Soon afterthe giant ^.rofe anvl ;vcnt to breakfaft wiih a bo wlol hady pu.Iciibg containing near four gallons,giving J icll the Hi e quantity, who being loth toJet the giant kn<-w he could not eat with him,got a large leathern bag putting it very artful¬ly under his laofr coaf, mto which he fevret|ytjonveved bis nudding, t^King the giant he couldIhew him r thick, then taking a large knife, heripe open the bag, Which the g.ant fuppofed t«be hi belly, vhen out came the pudding,* thenthe tlch jgiant cried eut, Oot’s plus, hur rando d t trick hurfelf. Then takinghis fitarp knife,and rip- Uj> ris own belly from theboltoih totketo , and i ut tlropt his tripe* and. trolly bag?;,fo that huf Pel; down for dead: thia jach outwit¬ted the piar.t;. and proceeded on his ipdfney.Jicw King 'Arthur's Son going to Jerk bis For¬tune^ met luisb yack, be,KING Arthurs foil only heliied of bis Fa* herto furnilh him vith a certain iuni oPhronrv, thnlhe migin go ami (Cel: ids fortune in the principa¬lity ot '.Vales, where a beautiful lady lived whohe heard vv-.s poiselsed with ieven evil fpirits ;but the king his lather adviled him again ft it.JCK. AND fHE GIANTS.. • • Ov ' ^‘"i yet he would not be perfuaded againfl it, fo A' ,,>/■| he granted what he requ^iled. which wa* 01°.^'horfc loaded with money, and another forfelf to ride on; thus he went forth without a«$*£vt attendants.Aow after fevtralddys travel, he came to *I fmall market town in Wales, where he beheldj a large concourse of people gathered together ;. the king’s fon demanded the reafon of it, and!■ was told, that they arrefted a coqpfe for many4, large fums of money, which the deceafed owedVf when he died. The king** ion replied, “it is a pity1 “ that creditors ihoutd be io cruel; go bury the;:i 1 “ dead, faid he, and let his creditors come to my“ lodging, and ther debts (hall be discharged.0i5 Accordingly they came, and in fuch great num-c hers, that before night he had clmoit left him..«,! feif moneyiefs.Now Jack the giant killer being there, anda feeing the generofity of the kings fon, he wa* ta-■ ken with him, and defined to be his fervant; it* was agreed upon,and the next morning they let'• | forward, when riding out at the town-end, ani (il old woman called alter him, crying, “ lie hath1 •• owed ire twopence thefe five years ; pray fir“ pay me as well ns the relt.” He put his handj! into-his pocket and gave it her, it being the left■ I he had left: the king’s fon turning to Jack faid,I cannot tell how I will fubfilt in my intendedjourney, For that, quoth Jack, tike no thoughtircr eare, let me alone, I warrant you we willnot want.Now Jack Imvirg a {mall fpeli in his pociet,which ferVed at noon for refreftiment, when dene,rftkty had not one penny 1ft betwixt them; theafternoon they fptrt in travel and fameIi.tr cis-i courfe, until the fun began to grow lew, at whichtime the king’s fon ibid, jeek, fince we havo noniglit jJIJacV replied, ms^er, well do well enough; fonj fcI hare an uncle live* wirtiin two little xai>e«otJ) *tki« : he‘* ab«ge and monOrou* giant with threeMkaads he’ll fight five hundred mem in armoarJ]aad make them to flv before him- AJ&s ! quoth |-tlacking’* fon, what (hall we dn there ? he‘ll cer- Itamly chop u* both up at one mnuthful l nay„ jwe are fcarce enough to fill one of hia hollnwteeth. It i* tio matter fo. that quoth Jack, my- •felf will go before, and prepare the way for you;therefore tarry here and wait my return.How aiu and Jack ride* full fpeed. when com- i i.mg to the gate of the caftle. he knocked with •fuch a force, that he made all the neighbouringhill* to refound. The giant with a roice likethunder roared out who’* there ? He anl'wered,»one but your poor coufin Jack. Quoth he, whatnews with my poor coufm Jack ? He replied,dear ancle, henry news, God wot. Prithee,- what heavy news can come to me ? I am a gi¬ant with three i.ead*, and brfidf» thou knoweftI can fight five hundred tren in armour, andmake them fiy like chaff before the wind. Oh $but qnoth Jack, here is the king’s fon comingwith a thouland men in armour to kill you, andfo to deflroy all that you have. Oh! ccufia Jack,this is heavy news indeed: I have a large vaultunder the ground, v/bere I will immediately hideoayfelf, aud thou (halt lock, bolt and ber me in,and keep the keys until the king’s fon is gene.Now Jack having fecured the giant, he ibo-nreturr.od and fetched his mailer, and were bothheartily merry with the wine, and other dain¬ties which were in the houfe; fo that nighttbeyrelied in very plesfantlodging % white the poornncle the giapt lay trembling under ground.Early\in the morning Jackfurniftiedhis mas-«r with a frefii fupply «f gold and filvtr, andJACK AND THE GUNTS. nthen fethim three miles forward on hi* journey*'concluding he was then pretty well out of toefmell of the giant and then returned to let hituncle out of the hole, who afked Jack what he■would give him in regard his caftle ura« not do-'moHQied. Why, quoth Jack, I defire nothing butthe old coat and cap, together with the oldrutyfword and flippers'which are at your bed-head;Quoth the giant, thou ftialt have them, and praykeep them for my fake, for they are thing*. ofexcellent ufe. The coat will keep you invifiblethe cap will fumifh you with knowledge, thefword cuts in funder whatever you ftrike, and: !;i the (hoe* are of an extrordinary fwiftnes* ; thelemay be of farvice to you, and therefore praytake them with all my heart. Jack take* them^'l thanking .his unde and follows ids mailer*Hijack Javed his Majler's life, and drove theevil Spirit out of the Lady, &c».jfl TACK having overtaken his mailer, they foonI J after arrived at tke lady’s faoufe, who find¬ing the king’s fon to be a fuitor, ihe prepared abanqnet for him, which being ended, ihe wipedhis mouth with a handkerchief, faying, youmuilfhow me this one to-morrow, or elfc lofe yourhead, and with that fhe put it into her bosom.The king’s fon went to bed very forrowful,mbut J ick‘s cap of knowledge inftructed him how: to obtain it. In the raidft of the night ihe calledi her famelier fpirit, to cz.try her to her friendLucifer. Jack foon put on his coat of darknefs,»with his fiioesof fwiftnefr, and was there as foon,as her by re don of his coat they cojdd not feehim. Whin (lie entered the place, foe gave thehandkerchief to Old Lucifer, who laid it on afoe if, from whence Jack took it and brought itto his matter, and footed it to the lady the nextday, and fo favecMiis life.w"I'HIL liij L Ui\ i Oh■?he ntxtday (lie faluted the king’s foa» tellinghim he rr.uft (how her to-morrow morning thelips that Ihe kifsecl laft this night, or loofe yourhead. Ah, replied he, if you kifs none hut miseI will. ’ Fis neither here nor there, faidihe, ifyou do not death’s your portion. At midnightihe went as before and was angry with Luciferfor letting the handkerchief go; but now it willbe too hard for the king’s Ion, for 1 will kifs theeand he’s to (how thy lips which Ihe did : Jack(landing near him with his fword of fliaj pneis,cut ofi the devil’s head, and fetched it under hisinvifihle caat to his mafter, who was in bed. andlaid it at the ‘end of his boaMfer. ; n thv mimingwhen the lady came up, he pulled tt by the horn*and (bowed her the devil’s lips which (he kifs-ed lad.Thus having anfwered her twice the inchant-ment broke, and the evill'pirit left her, at whichtime (lie appeared in ail her beauty, a beautiful,and virtuous creature. They Were married thenext morhing in great pomp and folemnily, andloon after they returned with a numerous com¬pany to the court of King Arthur, where theywere received with the greotel! joy and loud ac¬clamations by the whole court. Jack, for themany and great exploits he had done for thegood of his country, was made or.e of the knightsof the Round Table.Thus we have (iniihed the firftpartof the his¬tory, which now leads us to the SaConc), where¬in yon havea more full account of the many va¬liant and wonderful exploits which was done bythe bold adventures of this great and valietithero, Jack the giant-killer,JACK AMD THE GIANTS.P A R T II.*1i/cw Arthur's leave, •went inpurfuit of Giants yet alive.JACK having been faacefsfui in all his under¬takings, refo/ved not to be idle for the fu¬ture, but to perform is hat fervice he could forthe honour nf his king and country ; he humblyrequeued of the king his royal matter, to fit himwith a horfe and money, to travel in fearch offtrange end new adventures; for faid he, thereare many giants yet alive in the remotert partof the kingdom and the dominions of Wales, tothe unfpeakable damage of your roajefty's liegefubjects; therefore may it phafe your Majeftjrto give me encouragement, and i doubt not butin alhorttitne to cur them off root and branch,and to rid the realm uf th.eie cruel giants and'devouring mdnfters of nature. -How when the king had heard this noble propo-frtion, and had duelv confideredthe mifchievoucpractices of theiebloocLthirlly giants, he imme¬diately granw.d what honeU jack requelled: andvn the fii ft day ofMa eh, being thor oughly fur-nifhed with ali nccefraries for hi. pi bgrefs, hetook hi* leave r.bt ohly of King Arthur, but like-of all the trulty a nr* hardy knights belonging tothe Round Table, who, after much lalutatiouand friendly greeting, they parted ; the king andhis nobles.,to their courtly palaces, and Jack tothe eager puriuit of fortune’s favours, takingwith him the cap of knowledge, fword of fliarp-neii, flices of f\viftne»f. and like wife the irviU-ble coat, the better to complete the eshgerouscnterprifcs that lay before him.iYow fal k slew a Giant and delivered a Keightand bis Lady from death*J&CK travelled over vaft hill* *ni wonderfuTmountain*, which at the end of three da)?*,he came to a large and fpacieus wood, thro* whirlshe mutt needs pafs, where on a fudden, to hi*great amazement, he heard dreadful (hriek* anderies, whereupon catting hi* eye* round to be¬hold what it might be, he beheld with wonder agiant ru(hing along with a worthy knight andhi* fair lady, whom he held by the hair of theirheads in hi* hand* with as much eafe, as if theyhad been but a pair of gloves, the fight of thi*melted poor Jack into tears of pity and compaf-fion. Wherefore, he alighted from off his borfe*which he left tied to an oak tree, and then put¬ting on his invifible coat, under which he carriedhis fword of fliarpnefs, he came up to the giant,and tho* he made feveral pafses at Vim, yet ne-verthelefs it could not reach the trunk of hisN body, by reafan of his height, tho’ it woundedhis thighs in fevcral plact.s; but at length giv¬ing’him a Twinging ffreke, he cut off both his.legs ju't belcw the knee, fothat the trunk of thebody made net only the ground to (hake, butlikewiie the trees to tremble with t!*e force ofhis fall., at which by mere fortii/’e, the knightand the lady efcapcdhis rage, thenhad jack tisr.eto talk with kirn, and fetting his foot upon hisneck, and faid, yeu lavage and barbarous wretch,I am come to execute upon you the jrbt rewardof your villainy* And with that, running himthro4 and thro’ the mon'dcr fent loi th a heduous groan, yield up hu life into the handsof the valient conqueror jack the giant-killer,while the noble knight and vittuou* lady wereboth joyful fpectaters of his fudden dowftfal andiheir owndeUveraKce r. ; .This being done, the com :ious knight and hisfair lady not only returned him hearty thanksfor theijr deliverance, but *lfo'invked him hesfteIIthere to refrefti himfelf after the dreadful eo>counter, as Hkewife to rtct.4ve ibme ample re*er&rd by way of grat itude for hi* good fcrvict*No, quoth Jack, I cannot be ai eai'e till I findout the den which was this monger* habitation.The knight hearing this, waxed right fonrowfnland replied, nable Iftrarg^r, it is too much torun a second risk, for th’s noted moufter livedin a den under yon mountain with e brother ofhis, more fierce and fiery than himfelt; and thrt-fere, it ihould be the heartbreaking of both meand my lady: fd let me perfuadeyou to go withas, and defift fr«m any further pursuit. May,quoth Jack, if there be another, nay, were theretwenty, I would Died the lalt drop of blood inmy body before one of them fkould ufeape rayfury, and when I have finilhed my task, I willcome and pay my refpects to you. So taking di¬rections to their habitation, he mounted hishorfe, leaving them to return home, while hewent in puriuit c£ the deceafed giant’s brother#Horn) yack slew the other Giant, and sent boththeir Heads to King Arthur,JACK had not ridden paft a mile and a half be¬fore he came ic tight of the cave's mouth,near to the entrance cf which, he beheld theother giant fittiag upon a huge block of timber,with a knotty iron club lyir.g by his tide, waiting,as he fttppofed. for his brother s return with h»cruet rney; bis gogle eyes appeared like flame*office, his coanteuance giiin and ngly* a°d hischecks appeared like a couple of large fat fiit-chers of bacon; moreover, the bridles ot hishead feemed to referable rods of iron wire, hislocks hung down upon his broad flioaiders ftkecurled fcakes or hiising adders. u.;W NkWSMWo* Jack alighted from his horfe and put him iruto a thicket, then with his coat of dnrknef* hebecame fomewhat near to behold his figure, andlaid foftly, Oh 1 are you there ? it wbl not belong before 1 take you by the beard. The giantall this time could not fee him by I'eafon of hisinvifible co*it, fo coming up clofe to him, vali¬ant Jack fetching a blow at his head with hisfword ot fharpnels, and milling fomewhat of hisaim, cut off the giant* nose, whofe noitrils werewider than a pair of jack boots, the pain wasterrible, and fo he put up his hand to feel for hisnofe, and when he could not find it, he rav’d androar’d louder than ciaps of thunder, and tho* heturned up his large eyes, he could not fee fromwhence the blow c^me v/bich had done him thatgreat difaffer; neverthdefs, he took up his iron-head club, and began to lay about him like oneilark mad. Nay, quoth Jacx, if you be for thatfport. then 1 will diipatch you quickly, for fearof an accidental blow falling out. Then as thegiant arefe from his 'block Jack ma’ses no moreto do but runs his fword up to the hilt in the gi¬ant's fundament, where he left it Ricking for awhile, and Rood hio.lt If laughing with his hand'sa-kimbo, to fee the giant caper and dance thecanaries with his sword in his ail*, crying out,he fhoudd die. he fhould die with the griping ofhi* guts. Thus did the giant continue ravingH*r an hour or more, and at length fell downdead, whofe dreadful faff was like to have cradl¬ed. poor jsck, had he not been nimble enoughto avoids thufarce.This being done, jfcck cut effboth the giant’sheads, and lent thtnn both to King Arthur bya wagoner, whom he employed for the purpofe,together with an account of his profperows foc-. cefa ia all hi* undertakings.JAGK AND TH"G!ANTS. «7Mcku yack searched their cate, and delivertomany men out of cttpttvttyJ\CK having thus difpatchet*. theie two rtbn"ters, r~fo!</e ' with himfelf toep.ter th- caveIn learch of theie giants treafure.; he pafsed, a-long-thro’ many curnrngs ami bindings, vmchle-i him at length to a room paved with free-.ftone, s't-the upper end of which was a hoinngI’ •caVircn; then on the right hand fto •d a' largetable, wh-efbat he fuppofed the giaftts ufcvj to! dine; then >e came to the iron gfin; through; I Whichhe iouNtd, and there beheld a vaft manynsifew ble captive* who feeing jacs'at a diftance,cried out with a loud voice, alas! young man,art thou come to be one among us in tin* mvil-rable den? \y, quoth Jack, l hope 1 {kali hottarry long here : hut pray tell me what is themeaning of your captivity? Why, fnkl one, ofthem, i’ll tell you, we are perfons that haVebeen taken by the giants that keep thi3cave> and. 0 here we are kept till (ueh time as they haveoccafion for a particular feaft, and then the fat¬ted araang us is slaughtered, and prepared fortheir devouring jaws ; it.is not long fince theytook three ot us for the fame pp.rp.dfe; nay manyars the times they’ve dined on murdered men,.Say you fo quoth jack, well, l have give* themboth Inch a dinner that it wiU .be lonjir enoughore they have ocenfion for any mors. The mile-rable captives jv>_re jmazed at thefe words ; yon*uy believe me qunth Jack, for 1 have slainthem with the point cf my fvverd and as fortneir menhrous heads, l fent them in to thecourt of King Arthur, as a trophies of my un¬paralleled victory t And in teftimony of thetruth of what he had »aii. he unlocked the irongate, getting the mifera’ob captives at liberty,who all rejeiced Ukceondemaed^nale-fao'ors at-j3;, \ . > TJIE DISTORT OF vthe fight of a repvtve: then leading thefii toge»ther to the for-e^aid room, he placed them roundthe table, and fet before them two quarters ofbeaf; aa alfo bread and wine, fo that he feaftedthem very plentithlly. Supper being ended theySearched the giants cofifenvwhere finding a vaftquantity of gold and filver. Jack equn'Iy divided; it amongft them; they all returned him hearty. thaaks for their treafure and miraculous deli¬verance. That night they went to their reft,»nd the next rooming they arofe and departed,the captives to their respective towns and j>la e»of abode, and lack to the knights houfe, whomhe had Formerly delivered from the hands ofthe giant.. Hew Jack came to the Knight'f Houfe, and hisnoble entertainment th(re% t?c.TT was about fun riling when Jack mounted his i* horte to proceed to his journey, and by thehelp of his direction^, he came to the knight’*houfe fome time before noon, where he was re¬ceived with alldemonftratiosscfjoy ianjdnsbleby the knight and his lady, who, in honourable ,rslpect to J.=ck, prepared a feaft, which lalledfor nany days, inviting all the gentry in the ad¬jacent parts, to whom th.e worthy krdgbt waspleafed to s elate the manner of his former dan¬ger and the happy deliverance, ’ey the undaunt¬ed courage of j set the giant-killer, and by wayof gratitude he prefenud him with a ring ofgold, on which w^s engraven by curieus art.the picture of the jdant dragging a di&refeedknight and his far lady by the hair of the hrheads, with this motco:{Ve ’were in fad drstrefs yov see,Uvdvr a giants fierce commandBnt gain’d our livts and liberty*By valient Jacks victor tons bona., . ,]Aci AND,THE, GIANTS, .Now among the v^ft afiembly there prefent,11 i Were five aged gentlemen* who Were fathers tofome of thofe miferable captives whoEn Jack hadiji *> lately fet at liberty, who underftat/ing that hewas the perfon thatperfermed tbife great won-I . ders, imihediately paid him their venerable re-fpects ; after whieh their mirth iincreafed andthe fne’ling bowl wentfre«Iy*rou»d to the prof-perous fuecefs of the victorious conqueror.—But in the midft of al) the mirth, a dark cloudappeared, which daunted all the heart* of thisafsembly.Thu* it was a mefs'enger brought the difmaltiding* of the approach of one Thunderful ahuge giant with two heads, who having heardof the death of his khrfmen, the above-namedgiants, wh* was come from the northern polein fearah of Jack, to be revenged on him for- their moft terrible downfal, and was withinaffiiie of the knights feat, the country people fly-| iflg before him, from their houfes a*d habita-tier*, likechaffbcfore the wind- When they hadfeinted this. Jack not a whit undaunted, laidlet him come, I ans prepared wither'tool to pickhis teeth, and you ladies and gentlemen, walkbut forth into the garden, and you fhafl be thejoyful fpectators of this menftrous giants deathand deflruction, To which they f.l! confented,- every one wifliing. him good fortune in thatgreat and dsngerous emerprife.Mow Jock overtbu,^ the Giant iff the Moat] andcut ojj'botb bis Heads> fke, xnpHE fituation af the knight’s h0ufe was asA follows: it was placed in the midil of a f«all'Aland encojapased round with a vjift nvoat thir*’tyDeetdeep and twenty feet wide, over whichwas a/draw bridge. Wherefore Jack employedtwo men to cut it on both fides, almoft to thea* JACK AHD THE GIANTS.■riddle, and thei) drtfsing; hi»feTin h>» cost t«darktiefs, Ukewife J0u;ting on Iris (hoe* of Iwift*nei*, he marched forth apuinit the giant, *riteh« fvrord of ftarpnets ready dtewn, vet when j|he caiije up dole to him the i iatii coiild not feeJack, h rcalau of his inrtfible coat .rhich b«had on : neverthelefs. he wae tenfible lome ap-.protch'm^ -langcv :;vlvch reffcle nim cry out; in3hc fo lowing word*:Fr Ft. Fs, Fu;n,I im 'eli tbe Sloqci of an EngUshman,,Be be f’vinp- or be be dead „ iI ll grind bis bones to mix Wjj \rec(Lfayft thou quoth Jack, then tnou ra t , |monftrous miller indeed : But hov it fttouldferve thee ss Idid the two giants hfiate. in myconfcience 1 (hould fpoil your practice ror thefuture. At which time the fmnt fpoke with avoice as loud as thunder, art thou that villain•which deftroyed my, two kiniruen? them I willtear thee with my teeth, fuck thy Wood, andwhat is more, i will grind thy bone* to pow¬der You Bauft natch medml, quoth- Jack, andwith that* he. threw off his coat o't dark ne Is, thatthe giant might fee him clearly, and th-rn ranfrom him as thro* fear. The giant wkh foamingmouth and glaring eyes followed after like awalking cattle, making the foundation of -tl eearth, as it were, to Ihoke at everw.ftep. >Jac<led him a da rue three .or. tour times round-themont that belonged to the knight’s houle) thatthe gentlemen and ladies mi^ht take a full viewof this huge monftev of nature, who follqv/edJack with all his might, bat cor,Id not overthim by reafon of his Ihoes of Iwiftneh, whichcarried him fatter than the giant could fellow.At length Jack to finifti the work, took ever thebridge, the giaht with full (peed perlumg after] ACK >ND TilK Ct \» r 2fhim with his iron club.upon his (boulder, butcoming to the midd’e of the liraw-bndire. whenP''with the weight of his body, ar.d the molVdeead-ful fleps he took it bn kc dov. n, ami he tumbledinto the water, where he roll'd and wa low’dlike a whale, j ck Sanding at tihe fide of themoat, laughed a' th: giant and yfahi—you toldme yoa would g.ind mv'hones to pov/der, hereyou have water enough pray wheteiv yourmill? The giant fretted and foamed to bear himfeoff an that rate andtho’ he rlunged'fi om fideto fide in the moat, yet he could not get out tobe revenged on hi* adveifary. lack at length,J.t a cart rope nil cait it over the giant’s-twoheads, with a slip-knot and by the help of a fewhorses dragged him out a»ain. with which lieWas near ftrangded, andb fore he could let himloofe, he cut off both his heads With his swordof fh irptiefs in the full view of all Che worthyaffemb y of knights, gentlemen and ladies, whogave a jovful fhout when they faw the giantfairly dU'parchtd. Vhen before he would t; thereat or diink, he fent thefe heads aifo a'ter theoiher to the court of King Arthur, which beingdone Jack with the knights and ladies returnedto their mirth and paliime which heldmaiijr days^How Jack came to the House oj an old Hermit^and wt>0t difeourse happened k tween them.AF iER fomfc time (pent in ti iumpliant mirthand paflime, Jac*: grew weary of riotousliving, wheretore taking leave of the noblemenani ladies, iv. fet forward in'frarch of Bew ad¬ventures, merting w ith nothing routarkable tillat length coming ,to the foot ol a high moun¬tain, late at night, he knocked at the door of ftionetWftc heme at whieh-iime an ancient manwith a head as;.white as row, arofe and let himin, father said )ack, have ^ou ac^cntcruin-^zx THE HISTORY Offmefit for a benighted traveller that has loft hi*way? .Yes, faid the old man, if thou wilt accept ♦of iuch accommodatioas as iny poor cottage can' •afF*rd, thou wilt be right welcome. Jack re¬turned, him many thanks for his great civilitv’,whereupon down they fat together, and the oWman began to difcourfe him, a* follows “ Son,-fifaid |ie, 1 am senfible thou art the great con^r.'querpr^of giants and.it is in thy power to..free’^this place of the country from an intolerableburden which v/e groan under: fpr behold, mvfohon the top. of tnis mountain, thnreris an enchant-, ted cadfcf kept by a huge moniko s giant^nam-c rcd. Gtdligantns, who tr.e help of an old conjur- ser* hettay s many, kpights and ladies into . this ■itjrupg cadie, where, by mt.gic- art, they atetransformed into fundry (jiAP'S and forms; buty,f(above all, 1 lament the lad misfortune of a dukos ..daughter, whom they fetchedfr -m her father’s 'garden by art. carrying Uer tin o’ the air in arnourning chariot, drawn as it were by two fierydra, oris, anti being teemed within tjie wal s ofthe eahle? Hie was immediately tra sformeu int<*the real Ihipe r-fa white hind; tho* many wor-thy knights have endeavoured to break the en-cb ititffient and work her deliverance yet noneof them coaid accoraplifli this great Work, byreafon of two dreadful griffins, who were fixedby magic art at the entrance of the caftle gate,who deftrojred any as loon as they faw them;but you, my fon. being furailhed with an invifi-ble coat may pafs by them undifcoven d, whereon the braaen gates of the calile, you wih hndengraven in large characters, the means bywhich the enchantment may be broken.”This old mar naving ended his disoourie Jack(awe.him his hand, with a faithful pronnie,iR ftaraing he would vesture his life^ »3\o break the eucoantw.snt, and free the lady,together with the /eft, "that were raii'erablei partaiters in her calamity.Hovj Jack gat into tht enchanted Castle^ brokethe EncCantmca.\ killed the Giant put theCanjur.irJo jl'gDt, set free ■ tbe Knigbts andI J-Mcttes i Ukevnje tbe Duke's Daughter^ wbeon\ be ajter iva^ar parried.iTT AVlNG rtfreihed themieives with a frazil!*i- otopfei ofmeetjtheyliid them down to reft,1'Sand in the morning Jack aroie, put on his invidfible coat, his cap of knowledge, and (hoes of?iwiftnes*. i*’Now when he had afeended to the top of the. iiiarountain, he foon difeovtred the two fiery grif-"iftns, he pulsed on between them without fear,or they cobid not fee him by real'on of his ia-i vifible coat N ow w'hen he bad got beyond them,e mrned his eyes around him, where he foundpo t the gate, v golden trumpet hung in a chainf fin filver • under which tbei'e linos wereriften, •• • -r: •> . ■> rrWhoever shall this trumpet bicvj%Shall ('Ipn tbe grants rverthrow^And i>r. ak Use black t nchantmetit straight>So a.l shall be in happy state.Jack had ao teener read this defeription, butve blew the trumpet, at which time the vaftound/tipn o£ the caftle -rembled, an 1 the giant'getner with the conjuror were in horrid con-lufion.. biting their thumbs and tearing theirdr knowing their wicfced reign was at an end.t which time Jack, standing at the giant’s el*w as he was stooping to take up the club,e at one blow with bis fword of sharpness, cuttil ids head, the conjuror feeing this, foonftibu&ted uj* m the air, and was carried awy by24 YP.E HISTORY OFfa whirl wind. Thus, was the whole enchant*njent troken, and every kt'h-ht and Jady whohad been lor a long time tran»formcd into bird*and be sts. returned to their proper shapeagnin:and as lor the castle, though it feetn^d at firstto be of vast strength and brgnefs, it vanishedawav like a eh o .’y fmdke, where«pon an nni-trial joy appeared ^Jwon.. the >eltafed knightsand \acies This being done, the head of Galli*gantus was likewife. according to'Jack’s accus¬tomed manner, convened to the Court of KingArthur, as a prefent made to his Majesty. Thevery nest day, aftef haying retreshed theknights and ladies at the old man s habitation,who lived at the foot of the mountain, he letforward to the coart of King Arthur, with thofehuights and ladies whom he had fo honourablydeliveredWhen coming to bis Majesty, and having re¬lated all .the pafsares of the firej; encounters,bn fame rang thro the whole court, and as a re¬ward for his good fervice. the king, prevailedupon the nforefaid duke, to be bestow his dauirh* jjter in marriage to honest Jruk, protesting thatthere was no pe; son io worthy of her as he, toall v hich the duke honourably confer.:ed. SotBarried rh-y were, and not only the court, butlikewife the kingdom was filled with joy ,ndtriumph at the wedding. After which the kingas a reward for the good fervices dene to thenation, bestowed upon him a noble habitation.With a very plentiful estate, belonging there- .unto, where be and his lady lived the remainderof their days in gieat joy and happiness.if I N I s.