A REMARKABLEPSAUNDERS W4TS01NF.pGHOST OF BILL JONES.GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,SvTfUL 'HA?' 3; Ato,bij '• v orREMARKABLE FAMILY ADVENTURE"SAUNDERS WATSON.In a remote country parish in the southof Scotland, the above worthy personagewas born, bred, and married, and becamethe father of a family, consisting’ of oneson, named after himself, and three daugh¬ters. He rented a few acress of ground,suflicient to graze two cows and to keep onehorse; and he had, by the greatest industry,brought up and educated his family in amanner suited to his circumstances-—-thatis, they were tjuite etpial to the task ofreading the first chapter of Chronicles, andthe tenth of Nehemiah, distinctly. Theycould also perform the Rule of Three, andwrite “ half-text” hand by the help of squnr-iw/—a mode which honest Saunders madethem always adhere to; for he said they“just spoilt paper wi’ making lines ascrooket as rainbows, when they had noughtto guide their ban’ frae ae side o’ the sheet tothe ither.” As to the item of dancing, theyhad each, by dint of incessant solicitation.4gained their faither’s consent to attend ateacher of that art during a fortnight; butas they happend, according to Saunders’sphrase, to have u nae ear for music,” it wasmerely time and money wasted. Saunders,who had always a great antipathy to sucl/amusements, was no way sorry at the dul-ness of his family; but it was not till a yearor two had elapsed that he could contemplatewith any degree of patience the circumstanceof his mispending his money so; and as hismuch loved partner, Tibby, had givenher vote in favour of the children on thatoccasion, he very frequently felt disposed toquestion her prudence in future when anything material came under consideration.Upon this principle he determined not tosend them to a singing school, but to en¬deavour to give them what he called uaswatch o’ that branch o’ lear’ himself. Fivechurch tunes were his whole stock, and thesetoo had lost many a note and quaver in hishands; but he thought he knew them inperfection, and besides giving his pupils twoor three lessons each day, they were enjoin¬ed to be most attentive in accompaning himwhile at the “ buik” so that no opportunityof improvement might be lost. Saunderswas nearly as unsuccesslul in this depart¬ment as the dancing-master had been inhis; for though the girls made some little• 5i progress, young Sandy was altogetherintractible. His father, after labouring, very patiently with him for some time, atlast remarked to Tibby that it was “ need¬less learning folk the thing they couldnalearn,” and relinquished wholly the task ofteaching. This is an accurate view of theextent of education possessed by the family: :of Saunders Watson. Yet they were asi1 well as any around them in this respect;Sand the daughters when grown up, wereallowed to be not only sensible, but fair andaimiable. Young Sandy wrought and car¬ted along with his father, and was juston the point of venturing upon matrimony,when his eldest sister, Mary, caught asevere fever and died. This sad event threwthe whole family into the utmost griefSaunders bore it with a fortitude somewhatapproaching to philosophy,—though noth¬ing of the stoic was mingled with his feel¬ings.—but Tibby and the two remainingdaughters were more vocal in their woe,notwithstanding of all the consolation whichSaunders endeavoured to administer to them.The whole neighbourhood flocked round thehapless family upon this occasion to join inthe work of comfort, for Saunders and hiswife with the whole of his children, wereloved and respected by every one.This was about the time when the greatest6alarm prevailed, and the most fearful storieswere circulating through the country re¬garding the resurrectionists, as they areappropriately called. In consequence ofthis, Saunders in a solemn divan of hisneighbours, came to the resolution of watch¬ing his daughter’s grave, for a fortnight orso, till decay should have so far done its workas to render the corpse of no use to any an¬atomist. Every neighbour cheerfully vol¬unteered his services in this pious work, andon the night after the funeral, two men wereaccordingly appointed sentinels, well armedwith large sticks, a musquet each, and sev¬eral rounds of shot.The church-yard was a spot which fromits retired situation,—without a house, savethe church, within a quarter of a mile ofit,—seemed the very sanctuary of holinessand solitude. It was surrouded with a stronghigh dyke, on the outside of which a line oftall ash trees formed a second circle; so thatnothing of the external world was visableto an internal observer, save the tops of twolong parallel ranges of mountains thatwalled in the valley, or rather the glen. Thechurch stood in gloomy loneliness on thetop of a small knoll, exactly in the centre ofthe burying ground. From thence the earthfell with a gradual inclination on all sides,tOAvards the dyke, closs to the inside'T Avhichoand almost overshadowed by the trees, acrowded line of white through-stones giearnedlike spectres through the darkness. Therewas a small house attached to the end ofthe church, in which the sessions were gener¬ally held, where the sexton’s tools were depos¬ited, and into which the rope attached to thebell descended. It was here the sentinels tooktheir station. The small gothic window infront looked directly towards Mary’s grave,and as the sexton had given them the key,they could, by locking the door on the inside,watch, secure from the weather, and unseenby any one.Three nights passed in this manner, with¬out any remarkable occurence. On the fourthold Saunders and his son insist s-,' .tb eke^enuren-yard accordingly; t e a icrwith the Scots Worthies, and the big haBible under his arm, and the son with twonuns over his shoulder, an ox-horn full ofpowder, a small bladder of shotand aforpocketful! of his mother’s coarse tow,colfins. It was then the month of March,when the days and nights are equal; amias it happened to be clear moonlight at thetime, Saunders would not allow his son obring a candle with him, “ t™’ sfld h(b asthey travelled along, “ if onv o thae graveffl houkin ’ vVtlinns sud be sculkm about, and8see a licht i’ the session-hoose, there's nae say¬ing what they micht do to us to get their en’seflecket” a Then, faither,” Said Saimdy,what’s the use o’ taking ony buiks wi’ ye ?I’m sure, when ye canna read without specksat a burnin’ cannle, ye’ll far less can readony at the moon.”4 4 Tut, tut, bairn !” said Saunders, i( theyare ay gude to hae aside ane, make whatuse o’ them ye like. Gude knows whatkin’ o’ faes we may hae to contend wi’ aforemornin’, an’ mony an evil speerit has beenfleyed awa wi’ the word o’ Gude, whannocht else wud do at them.” <£ Then” repliedSaundy, u if we’re to hae only time kin’o’ craitirs to deal wi’, it was needless takin'the guns wi’ us. What can guns do ate'omeril!” cried hisony arm o flesh we may hae to contena Wi-tD 7e think I’m daft enough to believe thatspeents could be hurt wi’ them ? If ye see onyS'1™’ >ree,1]an in tak the bulks in my han’ ” 4<JVafaither, ye maun shoot, an’ I’ll do that,” saidSaundy, Gosh! I never fired a g-un inmy life; an’ if she strikes back, and knocksme OAvre, than I’ll miss my aim, an* oo’llbe ,™urclered 1” “ Tut, come awa,blethenn! said his father—“ ye see it’sg-ettin’ dark already; an’ if we’re no there1 9soon oo’ll maybe hae been owre lane: o'gaun.”They reached the church-yard,—saw thatthe grave was untouched, and locked them-I selves up securely in the session-house. Itwas now dark; the moon had yet an hourto remain behind the hill; and their lonelysituation, the solemnity of the place,—themournful sough of the wind among thetrees, and the ghost-like appearance of theI white grave-stones, as indistinctly seen fromthe window, inspired them with feelings ofa very unearthly character.£< Bless us, bairn,” said Saunders, u whatan awsome thing it is to be surrounded wi’|»ae mony o’ the deed at this time o’ nicht!D’ye hear the.bell creaking on it’s axle-treeaboon our heads there, an’ thae waesomevoices it the wun makes amang the trees ?We’re really within the shadow o’ death!£ A land of darkness, as darkness itself; andof the shadow of death without any order,and where the light is as darkness.’—JobTent and Twunty-secunt. What a mercyit is I hae some bits o’ the Bible on mytongue the nicht! Can ye say ony o’t,Saundy ?” u Hoot, binna sae feart, faither !”replied Saunday; “ I’m no giftit wi’ scrip-tir; but I’ll say ye a piece o’ a hymn it Ihae in my memory, an’ it I think suits theoccasion—tof “ 0 Mary ! (i«ar (If pa rtf (1 shade!Where is thy place of —” 'ii Whist! whist I” interrupted .Saunders withhorror. D’ye no ken ye stupe, it that’s apiece o’ ane o’ Burns’s saiigs ? Gude fhrgieus ! I wus nocht ill may happen us Hit- sicprofanity! lay the Scots Worthies aneatitye’r elbow on the wuftdow-sole there, andhad ye’r peace a thegither, if ye canna sayony thing better.”It was a place, however, where speakingcould alone keep up their spirits; and Saun¬ders was obliged, in a little while, to breakthe law of silence he had so hastily imposed.At length the moon appeared over the edgeof the hill; and never did patriarch of oldhail with grater pleasure a celestial messen¬ger descending to visit him, than they didthe presence of the efulgent luminary, as shelifted her broad face in tranquil sublimityfrom the top of the mountain, and seem’d totransfer herself at once into the blue arch ofheaven, fill things now began to assume adifferent aspect. Every tree had its gigan¬tic si\addowr that stretched like a leviathanong the church-yard, and concealed wkb¬its range a vast number of graves. Thed gothic church stood by itself like a planethalf eclipsed, with the shadows of some of thetaller trees advanced half-way up its wall,very much in the form of butresses ; while11the light that now gleamed in at the win¬dows, shed a faint twillight radiance throughthe deep obscurity that formerly reignedwithin it, Saunders and his son now becamevisible to each other, for the first time sincethey had entered the Session-house, Theywere placed opposite to each other, one oneither side of window—Saundy with hiselbow leaning upon the Scots Worthies, ashe had been commanded, and his father inthe same relative position with regard to theHa’ Bible. The moonbeams were scarcelypowerful enough to penetrate the damp hazyair of their dreary apartment; yet the lightwas sufficient to disclose the sexton’s tools,lying huddled together in one of its cornersat a little distance, Saunders was justabout to make some melancholy remark onthe sad service they had lately been employedin upon his account, when his son, who hadbeen gazing through the window for a fewseconds, touched his father’s knee with thepoint of his finger, and whispered in a stateof great alarm, “ O faither, what’s that Ihear aboot Mary’s grave I”This direful whisper acted like the dis¬charge of an electric battery upon the nervesof Saunders, His whole body shook like aperson under a fit of ague ; his blood curdedwith horror at the thought of the unhallow-ed purpose for which any person could be12disturbing the mansions of the dead atthe hour of midnight, and his fancyarming the intruders Avith every thingformidable, made his heart almost cease tobeat, from terror for his own safety. Hisson was in no better plight. They bothgazed like statues before the Avindow, butneither of them had breath sufficient to saya single Avord to the other.It so happened that the shadoAV of a treehad fallen directly over the grave Avhich theireyes Avere in quest of, so that it Avas hardlyrecognisable;—it seemed a mere dim speckswiming amidst a Avave of invisibility. \Nothing at first Avas to be seen, but theirears informed them distinctly enough, thatsomething Avas busy about the depository ofMary’s remains. Terror, like every othertyrant, can only go a certain length till thepoAvers it has subdued, forcibly resume theirfunctions, and make it turn their slave. |The mind of Saunders had noAV reached thisclimax ; a kind of desperate resolution suc¬ceeded to his former coAvardice, and snatchinga gun, he thurst it into his son’s hand andordered him in a firm tone to fire throughthe AvindoAV. 4 ‘ What! an’ break a’ the glass,an’ maybe blaAV some spelks o’t aboot myain face ?” cried Saundy, in despair, atsuch a proposition. u O faither, think whatan awfu’ rennish it Avad mak’ in the inside13'< o’ a kirk that has sounin’ balls in its ceil-in.,, By this time the paroxysm that: made Saunders dictate so summary ameasure had somewhat subsided. He beganby degrees to sink nearer to his constitutional■ level; and as he had never been remarkablefor bravery, he did not well know how toi answer the objections of his son, or whatmeans to adopt, compatible with his own! safety, for the preservation of his daughter’scorpse. But to his great joy, he was relieved' from this dilemma by observing that the| window opened to the inside upon hinges.“ Deed ye’r no far wrang bairn,” he ati length whispered cautiously. u But coodna;i ye open the window withoot ony noise, andplay pap at them that way ? for the doormaunna be set up at nae rate. Oo maun> keep oursels safe within the hoose, Sandy.”: u But will’t no be murder, faither, to shootI without gien’ them tiraeous warnin’ ?” said| Saundy. “Bless me, bairn, what a mercy yei thought on that! We maunna bring onyj man’s blood aboon oor heads. But than if we| speak, they’ll fin’ us oot, an’ maybe massacrej us afore we hae time to fire, suld it sae happenit they’r no aimin to tak’ their heels for’t”j “ Keep us, ay, faither! I’se warran’ that: be the upshot o’t. Here tak’ ye the gun,ifor I darna shoot her. I’m a’ trimmlin wi’fear. 0 hear that, faither! what a wark14they’r fnakin.* If we’re no fast they’ll hue ootthe coffin. I think I hear them dunnerin’on the lid o’t already !”There was. In truth, something' about the igrave making a considerable noise; hut stillthe shadow of the tree prevented them from ndiscovering it. At times, however, theyljrthought they could perceive a low figure imoving a little upon the top of the grave; j®and as imagination had full liberty to investit with whatever shape and attributes it ;pleased, the trembling father and son hadnot a doubt of its being one of a party oi iresurrectionists.44 For heeven’s sake,” Saundy, cried theafflicted father, “ lay the ban-el o’ the gunower the wundow-sole, and that’ll steddy iher ! Ye maun shoot; an’ I’ll stan’ near ye twi’ the Bible i’ my ban’, and cry at them ,afore ye draw the tricker. They’ll maybe iirin aft an’ than there’ll be nae blood shed.*"}.u O stan’ ahin me then, faither, an’ kep ime if I’m knocket back ower when she gaes iaft ! I doot she’s to strike terribly.” I’ll do 'that my bairn.—Noo, ye’r ready, I’ll cry ■at them, and I’ll pu ye’r coat tails when \ye’r to fire”, Saundy groaned assent for his ifears had deprived him of speech; and the11father laying the Bible upon his son’s: ’shoulders, and leaning forward along upon «his back with his hands upon it, cried out jp15q as loud a tone as he could then raise his> toice to, “ I ‘ Guide’s name, what ir ye, ordiat is’t ye’r seeking- here at this time o’; l icht ? No answer was made, but the figureiljtill kept moving as fbnuerly. u I ax yegain what ye ir ? 4 4 cried Sauners—44 speaki r oo’ll blaw ye’r brains oot. Dinna thinklb'll let the graves o’ the dead be rified injr presence. 44 This appeal was as unsuc-:essiul as the former one. Saunders’s embar-jiksment increased; for he was resolved to1 all only a third time. 44 I warn ye againi j quat ye’re unhallowed wark and let thei ead lie. I’ll no speak anither time, as!rude’s my help. 44 His last call was equallyisregarded. With a trembling hand Saun¬ers now pulled his son’s coat skirts; andith a not less trembling hand did his sonenture to take aim and pull the trigger.V onderful to relate, the shot took effect; foirst a kind of shriek, and then a few deep>bs, announced the death of some creaturer other.; Saundy did not fall backward as he hadfjreaded; but his father, on hearing tlieiniek of their victim, fell forward upon him,jjnd crushed him, along with the Bible, tofloor, the bell rope happened to be dang¬ling over the place; the hapless son grasped(k in the mncouciousness of his terror, anda striving to raise himself by it, set tire16bell a-ringing. This however, was notheard by either of them at the moment;and Saundy after repeated tugs, got hisbody dragged from under his father, andraised himself, by it’s help, to his legstagain. His first attempt was to place his:father in the same position; but the fright:had deprived him, if not of life, at least ofmotion. a Preserve us,” cried Saundyin utter despair, i 1 am I left here alane,.the only leevin craitir in this horrid place!”'u I’m no deed, my bairn,” sighed his father,as he recovered and sat up on the floor.<£ Len me ye’r han I beseech ye, an’ let usin frae this shame o’ dreed an’ calamity.Gude kens what may be the upshot o’ this: vwark. I doot oo sudna hae shot sae soon; s?an’ ye ken if we’re fun here, oo may behanged for murder, for oo hae nae witnesses Ito prove it did in a just cause.”This was a joyous proposal for Saundy., >'He speedily picked up the two guns, the iBible, and the Scots Worthies, and takinghis father’s hand as desired, had unlockedthe door, and was just about to set his footover the threshold, when to his consternation, the heard the sound of a number of peoplerunning towards the kirk stile. The firingof the gun and the ringing of the bell hadalarmed the whole neighbourhood. Every#)one started out of bed and made for the I ‘17iiiurch-yard at full speed in the expectationjf finding either Saunders Watson or somefiber person a corpse; even the pastor him-fclf was among there crowd. The alarm ofi aunders and his son may well be conceived,i! hen they saw the church-yard gate throwninen, and so many people running pell-melltwards the spot where the tragedy had beenfed. Neither of them had power to shut•lie door. Each leaned himself against theall, more dead than alive, till they heardwell known voice exclaim, in a tone ofTgreeable, but somewhat mirthful surprise,; Preserve us, here’s the minister’s swinerilin’ cauld deed! I’ll ’ay my lug for’tJiiaunders has taen’t for a ressurrection man,bud shot it in that belief.”Notwithstanding the sacredness of theA&lace, and their feeling of sympathy forif Ta]fi!>s,s misfortune, a general burst-he twfcoes1fel?f f ——ho both joyful at, and^,^ fountns take, scarcely knew what Wo?*,> put upon the matter. They were thenost afraid to face the minister; but heery good naturedly relieved them from theirmbarrassment, by observing that as theig had broken loose, and strayed where itught not to do, it in some measure deserv-d its punishment; and as for himself he set18no ralne on such a trifle, in comparison wit!1the satisfaction he felt at having- his fear31disappointed.Two of the men now offered to watch tU 1daylight; but, at the suggestion of tinminister, it was unanimously agreed thathey should all go hack to their beds, as thmorning was now too far advanced to alio*of any resurrection ary schemes being attempted. A large party of them attend<1^Saunders to his own door, some carryinghis books and others easing young Saumhof both his guns; and from that time for 'ward the word resurrectionist has alwaysbeen associated with other ideas than thoSof tear among the people in the native pari si:of Sunders Watson.A f.fiOST STORY-narrator had in his youtlj gone matera slave-vessel lion. L.verpool, of wfehmi. ho seemed to lie a native. 1 ho tap j,in of the vessel was a man oi vanahle tt*|-er, sometimes kind and courteous to hi-|W«, hut subject to fits himiour, dislike,,,d passion, during which heent, tyrannical, and cruel He to»k19■particular dislike at one sailor abroad, an* elderly man, called Bill Jones, or some suchpame. He seldom spoke to this man with-i nut threats and abuse, which the old man,I If ith the licence which sailors take in mer-uhant vessels, was very apt to return.i|)n one occasion Bill Jones appeared slow; n getting on the yard to hand a sail. Thejjaptain, according to custom, abused tinneaman as a lubberly rascal, who got fat b>leaving his duty to other people. The man4nade a saucy answer, almost amounting toilputiny, on which, in a towering passion,!'he captain ran down to his cabin, and re-jiurned with a blunderbuss loaded with slugs,loth which he took deliberate aim at theSupposed mutineer, fired, and mortallyiwounded him. The man was handed downwrom the yard, and stretched on the deck,Evidently dying. He fixed his eyes on thejjtaptain, and said, i Sir, you have done for'dne, but I will never leave you.’ The capt-iiain, in return, swore at him for a fat luh-i:j)er, and said, he would have him thrown inidie slave kettle when they made food lor thejiiegroes, and see how much fat he had got;jihe man died; his body was actually thrownInto the slave kettle, and—the narrator;?i)l)served, with a ‘naivete’ which confirmedthe extent of his own belief in the truth of-fb'hat he told—there was not much fat about20him, after all. The captain told the crewthey must keep perfect silence on the subjectof what had passed, and as the mate was not nwilling to give an absolute and explicitpromise, he ordered him to be confined below.After a day or two he came to the mate,and demanded if he had an intention to de¬liver him up for trial when the vessel gothome; the mate, who was tired of closeconfinement in that sultry climate, spokehis commander fair, and obtained his liberty.When he mingled among the crew oncemore, he found them impressed with theidea, not unnatural in their situation, thatthe ghost of the dead man appeared amongthem, when they had a spell of duty, espe-cialy if a sail was to be handed, on whichoccassion the spectre was sure to be out uponthe yard before any of the crew; the nar¬rator has seen this apparition himself repeat¬edly—he believed the captain saw it also,but he took no notice of it for some time,and the crew, terrified at the violent temperof the man, dared not call his attention to it.Thus they held on their course homeward,with great fear and anxiety; at length, thecaptain invited the mate, who was now insome sort of favour, to go down to the cab¬in, and take a glass of grog’ with him; inthis interview he assumed a very grave andanxious aspect: i I need not tell you, Jack,21/ what sort of a hand we have got on boardwith us—he told me he would never leave; me, and he has kept his word—you only: see him now and then, but he is always by, my side, and never out of sight. At thisi very moment I see him—I have determinedto bear it no longer, and I have resolved toi leave you.’ The mate replied, that hisi leaving the vessel while out of sight of landwas impossible; he advised, that if thecaptain apprehended any bad consequences■ from what had happened, he should run forthe west of France or Ireland, and there go: ashore and leave him, the mate, to carry;the vessel into Liverpool. The captain onljshook his head gloomily and reiterated his(determination to leave the ship. At thisrmoment the mate was called to the deck forcsome purpose or other, and the instant lie'•(got up the companion-ladder he heard a plash■in the water, and, looking over the ship’stside, saw that the captain had thrown him-> self into the sea from the quarter-gallery,Sand was running astern at the rate of sixknots an hour. When just about to sink, heseemed to make a last exertion, sprung halfout of the water, and clasped his hands) towards the mate, calling, 4 By , BillI Jones is with me now !’ and then sunk, toI be seen no more.Sir Walter Scott's Demonology.*2MYSTERIOUS MURDERS AT PARIS.kThe murder of M. de Savarj, which oocured in 1720, occasioned considerabat Paris. He was a sort of philosopher—a follower of Epicurus. Not being' a mar¬ried man, and being very partial to cornrpany, his house was the resort of many oithe courtiers and wits of Paris, where the'pleasures of life were indulged in. He kepta very small establishment, consisting onlyof a valet and a female cook. One day,when he was at home without company, aperson paid him a visit. M. de Savory re¬ceived him in a most polite manner, and theindividual said he would stay and dine withhim, to which M. de S. signified his plearsure. This person knew the small establish¬ment of his host well. The valet was sentby his master into the cellar for some Cham¬pagne, and the guest Ibilowed him. Asksoon as the man had got into the cellar, hewas knocked down and killed with a malleiby the stranger, who had suddenly pickedit up from the floor on entering. A doswhich was there was then despatched witrthe same weapon, lest the animal shouldbark and alarm M. de S a vary. The indi- ]vidual who had thus cruelly slain the poorvalet, entered the kitchen where the cook23i was preparing some fricasseed fowls for'dinner, and he treated her in the same man¬ner, knocking her down before she wasi aware what he was going to do. Having; destroyed the two servants and the dog, heIran into M. de Say ary's apartment, andi killed him in a similar manner: the latterwas unarmed, and consequently Could not:: defend himself, neither was he in a conditionE’body to exercise much strength, inasmuchhe was a cripple. The perpetrator ofese dreadful murders wrote in a book which3 Ivvas lying on the table the account aboveji givenhe,however, did not write his name.i A. clock stood on the mantle-piece of the room,miamented with a skull cut in ivory, undervhich was this inscription : ‘ Look on this,| hat you may regulate your life.’ Somelime (it is supposed to be the murderer) wroteIn pencil underneath, 4 Look at his life, andf am will not be surprised at his death.’I The murderer having satisliedhis vengeance,iplosed the door and went away, without any»ne knowing what a deed had been perpe-ated. The door was afterwards forced open,uid the three dead bodies found. Veryittle blood had flown from any of the un-|jiappy victims, their heads being crushed byhe mallet. The dinner table was found; iroperly laid out, and not a single piece of• liver was missing; so that it clearly appear-24ed robbery was not the end which the mur¬derer had in view. The officers of justicewere made acquainted with the circumstance,and some perons were appointed to examinethe papers belonging' to M. de Savary, a-|mong which was found a letter in a lady’s1hand, addressed to him. It was in thesewords :—4 We are lost! My husband has,just learned all: think of some means to'avert his anger. Parapel is the only one jwho can restore him to reason. Let himspeak to my husband, for, unless he does, wehave no hope of safety.’ This letter had nosignature, neither was it dated. Parapel,whose name was mentioned in it, was arrest¬ed ; but he was liberated again, after stat-jing that he knew not what it meant. Heacknowledged being acquainted with hi. de iSavary, having occasionally been at hishouse. But then it was well know that many Igay men were in the habit of going there,among whom were the Duke de Vendome,and some courtiers. Several people were ar¬rested on suspicion of being implicated in themurderous transaction, but they were after¬wards liberated, and the affair is still involv¬ed in mystery.