Befl Match:;-the incOmfar; ble marriageBetween the Creator £t th$ Creature.S E E I O N,r%s ■ . o AT'A Sacran' ! bolemnity,- ! ■ V ■' A . A ■ -V!■ - uoss. .Al-nit ■ - ■ 1722.On Is a ti llv. 5.Thy jVc/if" tfyy Hujband.By Mr. B. : . J ERSKINE,Late Minilic 1 <; ^1 at DeNre.RMi.iNE.' - - . —**  — yTH£ iltlU EDITION.XS". . ..1  ‘O* V-^** •*=>•IM KIRK:BRINTEr» A }OHN^TON,And ^’id at ids S! j, f ,ft<je of the Post-Office.:: «jiS,Cc*yu7,^ : v P?ii-T *l’vSERMONQ~*-0Isaiah liv. 5.Thy Maker is- tby Husband.T'X HE prophet ir?i^h having largely dirconrfedh of tiie fuft'erings of Christ, and the bidTed fruits1 and effeifls of them; ar,.ong which, one is, that hellnuild have a iiumephi' feed to beljc' e on him;j ami that, when ihe ieje<ft .hra, the Gentiiesi fbnuid gladly receive Imn : and thus forefeebsg,| by the Ip.rit of prcplr'.y, tne glorious Itate ofthe Genrile church, he brea m ft itth into a tongof triumph in the begm mg of this chapter; whereI the prophet dire&s his fpecch to the church andfpoufe of God in thefe words, *’Si g, Obtrren,thou that didft not Dear; break forth into fingihg,and cry aloud, thou that ri >Jt not travail with chi d:for more are the children ut the defola e thati thej children of the married wife, faith the Lold.^,—Where we hive a magnificent and glorious promifeof the fertility and felicity of the Get.tile church;and this is enlarged to th fifth verfe. whio con¬tains the wmrd of our text; whe e we'havc thereafon of her h ppinrls an 5 fruitfolnefs who wasformerly a barren widow, •* For thy M ker isthy Hufb lid ’’ He jho made thee out of nothing,and therefore c n eafdy fulfil atl thefie promifes,how unlikely loever they le 111 to be; he whomade thee a people, yea; v.hich is more, who madei 4 ;tfiee his people, he will own thee as his fpoufe, andaft the part of an hufband to thee.I (hall defer any further introduftion and expli¬cation, and alfo whatever might be laid concerningthe external relation betwixt Chrifl and the vifibiechurch, my chief defign being, at this time, only tofpeak a little to that internal fpiritual marriage-re¬lation betwixt Chrift and the invifible church, orChrift and the believer, as it is reprefentcd underthe formality of a marriage: and what 1 wouldoffer upon this fubjeft, I lay before you in this doc¬trinal proportion.il That there is a marriage-relation betwixt"Chrid and believers wherein he fupplies theplace of a hufband unto them, and they theplace of a bride and 1'poule to him.”In profecuting whereof, I would do theft things,I. Prove, That there is Rich a marriage relationbetwixt Chrift and believers.II. Speak to the nature of this marriage.III. Give the reafons, why Chriit comes underfuch a relation to his peopleIV. Make fome application of the fubj‘ft.I. We are to confirm the doftfine, that there isa marriage-relation betwixt Chrift and believers.Th'is will appear from 'hefe two confidexations.i. From the compeiiations given to Chi ift, withrelation to beibvers How frequently doth thefpdufe call him her Hi,(band in the book of the Song?“ As the app’e-tree an ng die trees of the wood,fo is my Be overi .unong the Ions —My Beloved ismine and I am hb,” ^ong ii 3 16. And, (aysthe apbtr'e. j Cor. xi 1. I have ef'pcuitd you toone hnlbansi, that 1 may preknt you as a challevirgui unto Chnit.’,C 5 1 -2. The marri3f>e-re!ation betwixt Chrift sndbelievers, appear* from the compellations given tob lievers in fcripture, with refpecf to Chritt. Howfrtqoenily calls he her “ hrs love, his fpoufe ” inthe book of the Song l Thou hah ravifhed my heart,my fitter, toy spousk How fair is rhv love, ntyfilter, my spousk.!’’Song ;v. y, io. InRey.xix 7.the church <,or believers in tnt colledive capacity)is called the bride, the Lamb’s wtfe : ■' The mar¬riage of the Limb is come, and the bridk hathmade herfelf ready.” We need not Hand to provethat which is fo evident; we need fay no more toconfirm it. than to repeat the text, “ Thy Makeris thy Hufband.” Therefore 1 come.II. To fpeak of the nature of this marriage : andhere we would biiefly confid- r, i. The partiesma;.ried 2 The terms yf tbs marriager 3, n.,-pro¬perties of the marriage. 4 The tffedls of iv ^ i-[owthe match is carried on. 6 Mow it y, contluded.ill. I fay, let us confider, the parties married ;who is the Bridegroom, and who is the bikle.1. Then, the Bridegroom js the wifdom of God;and ail the treaHires of wi'dom and knowledge arefound in him: he knows a'! the wants of the bride,and is ready to fupply them.—On the ether hand’the bride, before her matching with him, is the moftarrant fool out of hell: her f,lly is difeovered, bycontinuing to refiife to match with him ; in refufim--to give her confent t« this heavenly Bridegronn. “2 The Bridegroom is the sternal Son of God,the King’s only Son; “The King made a marriagefor hi. Son: He is the blood-roval of heaven.—On the other hand, What is the bride’s pedigree ?ShS needs not boall of her defeent.; ‘ jj,y fatherwss an Amorite, and thy moi’ner an Hittite uEzek. xvi 3. I here t; a vafi: difiererice here.•ciwK\( 6 )3. The Bridegroom is the Heir of all things:He hath ail riches, the unfearchable riches of Chrift.Bat what is the bride worth before he march withher? She is worfe than nothing? poverty itfeif;and not only a beggar, but in debt, and ChnO iswilling to pay her debt.4. The Bridegroom is comely and glorious. Allthe feraphims and cherubims above, all the Tons ofmen in the worid, all the crowned heads on earth,in all the circumftances of glory, are but little blackpieces of earth, compaied with this glorious Bride¬groom, On the other hand, What i* the bride,before he match with her? Even as black as thedevil can make her. Not only a leopard, Spotted hereand there, but an Ethiopian, wholly black and ugly.When call: forth in the open field, to the loathingof her perfon, fhe is a fpeftacle of horror and mifery !vet then it is a marriage-day, and a time of love.V.4‘V, Whst are the terms of the marriage? thearticles of ‘i on his part and her part? The turnson her part, t*r''Bgh the whole belong to Chrift, s et,to fnenk of terms if: an improper fenfa, he requiresof her what he worketh in her; namely,1. That Ihe be devorced from all other hufbands,and give up with all other lovers and .idols; parti¬cularly, that fine be divorced from the law, that diemay be married untoChrift : Die mull not obey thelaw from a principle of her own llrength; nor asa covenant of works, that, by obedience, Ihe maypur chafe a title rorhe.\ven ; nor to gratify a natiita!conh-erce; nor merely 10 efcape hell, and makea rlghteonfnefs of r obedience : (lie muft bedivorced from rhst hefband.2. Upon hit- part it is required, that flie be fatif-fied with thill' Hulband alone, as the great portionof the find ; that he may have no rival, no competi¬tor in her afiedfions, non; to fit on the throne withC 7 )him: fh« mult keep the chi:f room for the SoUof God Again, on hi? part, he contradb,1. That he will make over himfelf to her; allhe is, all he hath, ail he hath purchafed, aii he hathP' om fed : he v»iil mike ovtr to her alt the blelTingsof the everlalkng covenant. O this is a Tweet ar¬ticle, and a large charter indeed !2. He contrails to perform all the glorious offi¬ces of a Imfband to her ; to provide for her, protecther, direct h*r, pity her, ciothe her, to encourageand comfort her; and to do all for her flie needs.* This is the fnm of the contract; for, t > fpeak pro¬perly, Chrift is all, and doe? all in this mat er; androur part is done by him in us, Hof ii. 19 20. ie 1 widbetrothe thee untome for ever; yea, 1 vill betfothethee unto me in righteoulnefs, and m judgmenr/andin loving-kindnefs, and in mercies; I will ev.n be¬trothe thee unto me in faithfulnefs, and thou (haltknow the Lord.” Chrifl figns the c®ntt:-Ct/or h;inand her bo;h “ I will betrothe thee unto me inrighteoufnefs I will fulfil the law,, and fatisfvGod’s juftice. tt I will betrothe thee unto me inloving kindnefs though there be nothitlg in theeto invit* my love, but much to challenge myaVerfi-on, yet I will overcome all thy imperfect ons, andfet my love upon thee “ 1 ^111 betrothe theS un.ome in mercies:’’ in pardoning mercy, fancfifying;mercy, Inpporting mercy, comforting mercy. Butleft tire bride think, that when ever The (ins. theremay be a divorce, Jhc may bi eak and go away, there¬fore it follows, “ i vdll betrothe thee unto me ;nfaithfulnefs.” lie pledges his veracity for fulfillingthe articles on her part and his both. But then,gdlv, What are the properties of this m.trr'uge?x. It is a very mylleriotis marriage, that the Cre¬ator fhouid cake the work of his hands for a bridejnot only when in its primitive and virgin integrity,(*)js it dropt out of his creating hands, but whenp.dluted with the poifon of the devil, the venom ofthe old ferpenr, that he Ihonld take her for a bride;“ Thy Maker is thy Hiifb-ind.5’ This is a wonderrfu! cmjunftion! It a glorious angei Humid be match¬ed with a creeping worm, and a king with a beggar,.it would nor be fuch a wonder; bur the Maker tojoin himfeif to the work of his hands, exceeds ad !There cannot be a greater diitance conceived be¬twixt any two things, than betwixt a Creator andthat which is brought out from the barren womb |«f nothing, a creature ; and yet they are in a mar¬riage-relation; “Thy Maker is thy Htlband! ’2. This marriage is very difficult and hard. Itis true, there it nothing too hard for Omnipotency ;yet the human nature of Chriit had much to do withit: though he was fupported by the divine nature,yet<he behoved to fwim through the river of his ownIvfcdd before he could get his bride. He fatisfiedthd^uftice of God, and eftabliffied a new covenant.All this was to be done, in order to bis marriage.3 This marriage is an indifl'olvable marriage.Death diflolves other relations, but it increafes thisintimate union. Nothing ffiall i'eparate Chtift andthe believer: “ lam perfuaded,” faith Paul, “ thatneither life nor death, nor angels, nor principalities,nor powers, nor things prefent, nor things to come,nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, (hallbe able to (eparate us from the love of God which isin Chrift Jelus our Lord,” Rom. viii. 38, 39.4thly, What are the effefts of this marriage ?j. The firtt and immediate effeft is, a moll doleunion betwixt ChriU and the believer. This usioh,although it be, in fome refpeft, lefs than a perfonalunion, yet it is more than a political union, morethan a moral union ; it is a very clofe union. TheBridegroom, Chrift, givei his bride his owt) Spirit;( 9 )communicates vital influences, from the gloriousHead to her; and ihe cleavee, by faith and love,dole to him : and God promifeih, that he will makethe houfe of Ifrael clfave clofe to him, as a gird'sto the loins of a man, Jer. xiii. 11. He makes hisfpoufe, in fpite of all her folly, in fp'ue of all herenmity, in fpite of all her encn^es and temptations,to cleave clofe to him.2 Another effect of this union is, fwcet commu¬nion, and mutual fellowfhip. He fealts with her,and ihe with him : He blows upon her garden,quickens and animates her graces; and then hecomes and eats his pieafant fruits.3. Another effedt is, familiarity (which is coinci¬dent with the former): He treats them not asftrangers, but as friends; and not as friends only,but as his own fpoufe : He communicates to her,and fpeaks comfortably and kindly to her. It is a,wonder what condefcenflcn God will make fome-times; and the believer again can be more familiar•with God, than with the whole world ; and can tellto God what he can tell to none elfe. Thus youfee fome of the effects of this marriage.5thly, How was the match carried on ?I anlwer, in a word, On his part it was carried onthus :1. He gave the Father his hand, and engaged tohim in the covenant of redemption, from eternity,that he would do all things neceflary for accompliih-ing the marriage.2. Bi;caufe there muff be an union of naturesbetwixt the Bridegroom and the bride; (it was notpollibie that we could be matched with the divinenature;) therefore he becomes a man, and takeson our nature, that there might be an union ofnatures.3. Becaufe the bride is a flave, he pays her ran-( 10 )fom, (ubflhutes himfclf in her room, tikes on herdebt, and pays all that fhe owed to juftice and thentakes on with her. But, on cur part, juft nothingat all: we had no hand in the covenant of redemp¬tion : no hand in the contrivance of falvation ; weknew no:hing. about the bufinels; we had nothoughts of a Redeemer, deferved nothing but purewratn : we were lying with full contentment inthe devil's territories, when Chrill was carryingon the match.6th!y, Howls the marriage concluded on his part?I. Ha fends forth his amhartadors to court for him,as Abraham did his fervant for Ifaac; and there isa great work, indeed, to make her give her confent.Let angels in heaven unite their topics of pei fualion,they could not prevail svith one fotfl, if a convertingday were not come : but they mull always fpeakfairto her. How rhetorical wa* Abrabsui’s lervant forhis mailer ? “ He hath but one child, and that childhath great riches.” He fetks no portion withRebecca, only her confent. Thus be rhetorzcsand hourhhes exceedingly, and perfutdes with thegreatell motives. But yet the ambdfLdorsof Chrift*have a larger coinmillion, if our eyes were openedto fee it: they are font forth to tr.ke love to thebride, and in his name to commend Chrill.a. He concludes the marriage thus. The bridebeing wretchedly ignor nt of her true happinefs,therefore his Father dillreflts her with the debt thatfhe owes to him: and the w retched perfon is forced,for fume time, to mount Sinai; and there God def-cends in all tbs circumftances of terrible m .jelly! .he-thunders curfrs againft her ; “ Curled is everyone that edntinueth not in ail things which arewritten in the book of the law to do them,” Gal.iii lo God dxa&s a’l the d'ebtjj confidence roars,and the devils are let loofe; Ihs fears hell and wrath;*( 11 )and God declares, in the gofpel,. that the wretchedbankrupt {hall go toprifon, and ly eternally in hell,if fhe do not take on with his Son, marry him, andbelieve on him. Thus the bride is forced to an ex¬tremity : fome have more, fome have lefs of thislaw*work; but all are humbled and broken, in fomemeafure, who are married to Chrift: he fends forthhis Spirit and convinces the world of fm. But thiswould not do either ; and therefore,3. The Bridegroom fees that nothing but con-dsfcenfion will do it; and fo he appears in all hisgiory: when the bride is fail of fears/perplexities,and anxieties; when the terrors of God are fur«>rounding her, and the arrows of the Almighiydrinking up her fpiriis, and when {he is crying out.What {hall I do? Whether {hall I go? Then theBridegroom appears in all his excellency and glory,and fays, “ Behold me, beheid me!” And fhe geisa view of him, that raviflies her heart, and enlargesher foul: then it is that the Spirit is fent to deter¬mine her to confent. The manifeftaiion of his glorydoes enlighten her mind and fpirit; and immediatelygrace,-upon the will, draws out the whole hearta:ter him: fo that if tho bride could be grieved andpained upon the marriage-day, it would be for hu*lolly in refufmg him fo long.—But what is doneupon the bride's parr, for concluding the match ?Nothing at ail; but the whole foul is enabled toarq tiefee in a Redeemer: and the believer is ready,at inch a time, to fay, “ He is my Lord, my God,my (trength, my alland (hall be for ever.—Thus you have a brief fcheme of the nature andway of this marriage.Having fpoken but very briefly to the formerheads, I {hall here, before ! proceed to the reafonsof the doftrine, offer a few remarksiJlpon the time. of this marriage-union bttwixe CluhVand believer).4< 12 )Wp told rou how this match was concluded andjcom pt-a red by Chriil; and now we fay, there is aftated d,ty and time for the concluding thereof:and upon this head we may remaik,ifl. That there is a twofold day we are to con*fuLr in this marriage, namely, toe day of efpoufalson earth, and the day of ronfummat, n in heaven;and we m v compare thele two ;ogethrr in a fewwords, i. i he d-'y of efpoufals he* e is ufliertd inWith a ve'v d.ik morning, or rather an evening,upon the bride’s part, with the wrath of Ccd, andthe law. As it was faid, “ The evening and themorning was the day;” fo, in this contract, theeve ing of legal terrors, at leaft (time humiliation,ulhers in the morning : But as to the confuinmauon,there is a great deal of glory before it, the foul be¬ing taken to heaven airtady, and the body fleepingfweetly in the grave, a beet where the Bridegroomlay three days before her. i. In the day of efpou¬fals, when the perfon gets a vi&ory over corruption,and finds little itirring of w, no lenfible wo; king ofit, yet there is a party wiihin, at the fame time, thatoppofe the match, and which will afterwards getout its head, and will be fiilltaffru!ting the bel.evcr,while he is on earth : But, in the day of confum-xnatipn, there is no fuch thing ; no enemy, no tin,no corruption ; but the whole ioul g es out whollyupon the Bridegroom. 3. The efp. ufds are carriedon fecretly ; it may be, the perfon is fitting at yourfide, and m» do not fee, nor know wken Cnritt ismaking up the match; or, perhaps, on his kneesat home, there is a fecret tranfa&on: But the con-fumrna icfn will be before millions of angels, inflhonsof lainrs, mi.dions of fpcftaiors. Here is a great dil-ference ; after' the day of tlpou'als is over, the bndamay give iaanwfqaiut Iw k .oher old lovers, lookingback to Egyp t^Sc parting from hir huiband, ooubcing( >3 )cf his love, diftrufiing his word, fearing his difpenfa*tions: But, after the confiunmation, no (hadow offin no fhadow of je-.h ufy, no fliadow of miOakes,or fears, can overtake her for ever; no chsud canintervene, for the fun of righteoufnefs fhall neveri be tc.ipfed any more But then,(ad. A fecond remark is, that the precife time ofthe efpoufds is condefcended on by the Bridegroomand his Father, from all eternity ; the very momentwhen the bride {hall be made to fign the contract,and flee to Chrilt, and pour out her whole foulupon him; that precife moment is agreed uponbetwixt the Father and the Son, in the covenantof redemption, from eternity.3d. We remark, that the Bridegroom waits pati¬ently for that moment that is agreed upon betwixtthe Father and the Son; he longs for it he defires it.The believer many times is ready to think, O, Chriftis not willing! I have fet days apart, I have gone tomy knees, 1 have fought him in and about this andthe other ordinance, and yet I could not dofe withhim : I have been almoft dipt in hell with affl clion,yet my heart was never nnlted; furely C rill is notwilling. O let us flee the borders of blafpl.emy!The Lord Jefus is willing, but the fulnefs of time isnot yet come: there is a fet moment of his comingto his people, and fur this they arc to wait; yea, forthis he waits himfelf, according to that iicripture,which I Ihail read to them that cannot get that induties and ordinances, which they have been longlooking for, Ifa. xxx. 18. “ Therefore will the Lordwait, that he maybe gracious unto you; and there¬fore will he be exalted, that he may have mercyupon you : For, the Lord is a God of jatigtnent;bleffed ar'* all they that wait for him.5'' He willwait upon the very moment of time, for the dayol falvation; he knows the proper feafon. The( *4 )crane, the fwallow, and the ftork, know their fea-fons, by the natural inftinfl God hath given them ;and wjjl he not know his own feafon? Yea, hewaits to be gracious.4 th Remark. That when the time comes, thenthere is a fweet conjun&ion of all circumltances toconclude the work ; all things work pleafantly to¬gether to compleat the march; confcience goes rightto work, the word is made lively, the Spirit actspowerfully and fweetly in the foul : there is an au-ipicious conjunction of all.favourable circumftances,for determining the bride, and drawing out herheart.5th Remark. That there are feveral figns andcharacters of this day, by which it may be known.What are the figns of it? you will fay. I fhallnot Ifand on this, only it is a day of light; greatlight breaks in upon the mind: it is a day of love;much love is let in upon the heart: it is a day ofpower, v. herein the bride is per funded and over¬come; d faculties are furmounted, enemies conquer¬ed, and Me bride’s will is moulded into a compliance.It is a day of amazement 1 O what an extafy ofwonder is raifed in the pgr ton's heart! I was blind,now I fee; I was dead, now I live ; 1 w as weak, nowI am ftrong ; this morning, perhaps, I was underafileTion, and under the terror; of God, and nowhe hath raviihed me with the confolations of hisSpirit: I was aMa d of heil, now 1 have the hepe.cfheaven and eternal life O what a day of wonderis it! Laftiy, 1c is a day of vows; the foul will beready tobrtak forth in fuch a day,crying, \Vh,u (bailI fpeak for bin;? What ihall 1 fdfer for him?A S xth and iaft remark on this head is, Fhar, inthis Hared day of efpoufals, the 13 idegrocni uiatn-feds his glory to the bride. When lie intimates tothe foal, “ Thy Maker a thy Huftetid/’ he fliews( 15 )his glory : his abfoluce glory, his comparative glory,his relative glory : they are all one upon the matter,yet there is a formal different conlideration of them,i. His abfolute glory is manifefted. What does thefoul fee, that is matched and nnirried to Chrift?Alas] fome (es nothing but dreams and fancies;but when the believer is matched with Chrift, hefo denis with him as with Mofes, he makes all hisglory to pafs before him : The perfon gets a viewof the glorious attributes of the Son of God. 2. Hemanifefts his comparative glory: “ Thou art moreexcellent than hills of prey.—Fairer than the fonsof men.” The bride, the believer, fees him “ Asthe apple-tree among the trees of the woodeveryway incomparable; whatever he be compared to, heexcells it. Ifhebea lilly5heis the lilly of the valley;if he be a tofe, he is the rofe of Sharon ; if he be aplant, ne is the plant of renown ; if he be a phyfi-cian, he is the phyfician of value; if an advocate, heis an advocate with the Father: he is reprefentedwithout any parallel. 3. His relative glory is ma-nifefted : he is difeovertd as a glorious Prieft, a glo¬rious Prophet, a glorious King, a glorious Hufband,a glorious Redeemer and SavTour; and there willbe a light of his glorious fuinefs in all thefe relations,and the glorious fitnefsof that fufHciency and fu nds,all tinted for the foul: and thus revealing hsmfelf,he removes all jealoufies and miftakes from thebride, fupplies all her wants, heals a.'l her difeafes,and out-oids all his rivals, who can offer nothing toallure the foul, while he can, and doth lay, I amAll-fufficient to help thee.III. We come now to the third thing propofed,namely, To olfer fome reafonsof the dohhir.e, whyClirift cames under a marriage-relation to believers.I aiifwer, 1. His own fovereign will is the heftreat^n why he comes under a marriage relation inI 16 )this cafe • tl Even fo Father, for fo it feems goodin thy fight,” Matth. xi. 26. Hi? aftions are notto be examined at the bar of our reafon : “ He hathmercy, becaufe he will have mercy.”2. His love to them makes him come under fticha relation to them; “ i have loved thee with an *everlallinglove; therefore with everiafting kindneCshave I drawn thee ” Love is the motive that en¬gages him; love brought him outof heaven for them;love nailed him to the crofs for them ; love laid hunin a grave for them ; and love engages him to amarriage-relation wi h them.3. He does it for the glory of his own free grace)mercy, and love. As love and mercy was Ids motive,fo it was his end, that he might difplay and difcoverit to the uttermoft. This attribute is at its utrnoftline Infinite w fdom could have contrived a thou-fand worlds, and infinite power cofcld have madethem ; but the love of God hath gone to its ut-moft height; it is not poflible for Chrift to give agreater demonflration of his love than he hath done,in giving his life for the bride, and entering intoa marriage relation wjth her.4 He does it, that he may furnifh work for thebleffe-d company in the higher houfe; for, on theearth the contrad is only drawn up ; this is onlythe day of efpoufais; heaven will be the place of theconfummationof the marriage: this is only a courtingand wooing time ; but the day will come, when thenuptial folemnity {hall be celebrated, and that lhallcontinue while the day of eternity lads. This fiialiihffice for the reafons of the dodrine.IV. 7'he fourth thing was, To m.ke feme ap-plicttiort; and it may be. 1. For information.2. Lamentation. 3 Examination. 4. Exhorta¬tion. Now of theie in their order.( 17 )fi ) For information. Is it fo, that there is amarriage-relation betwixt Chrift and believers?r. This.informs us of the infinite love of Godtowards loft finners, in giving his own Son to bea Hufbmd and Redeemer unto them ; “ God fo lovedthe world, that he gave his only begotten Son, thatwhofoever believeth in him, might not periib, buthave everlafting life,’’ John iii. 16. God fo lovedthe world, as neither angels nor men can tell.2. This informs us of the infinite love of Chrift,in condefcending to be a hufbind to fuch a bride.It could never have entered into the heart of thewifeft angel in heaven, that Chrift, the eternal Sonof God, ihould become man ; and far lefs that heiliould tike fuch a filthy and deformed creature andbride by the hand, as finners are : it he had given osour deferving, he would have nude his juftice to ridein triumph over us, and hell to refound with eter¬nal hollows of praife to incenfed juftice ; but, to thequite contrary, he hath fo ordered, that heavenlhall refound with eternal haielujahs of praife tohis gracious mercy and free gra e, in chafing thofethat were enemies, and admitting them to hisble.Ted bofom.3. This doctrine informs us of the believer’sfafety. Having Chrift for her hufband, who canhurt her ? It is the duty of a hulbind, you know,to protcft and defend his fpoufe; and Chnft will notbe wanting in this to his bride : “ He will hide themin the fecret of his prefence from the pride of men:he will keep them fecret'y in a pavilion from theftrife of tongues, Pi xxxi. 20.—About all the gloryI will make a defence,” Ifa. iv. 5. He covers themwith the muitle of his providence, the mantle of hisrighteoufnefs. the mantle of his intercellinn, themantle of his Spirit; fure then the bride of Chrift:is in abfolute fafety. He hath retiring chambers forC >3 )her, to hide her in till the day of indignation beoverpaid.4 This do&rine lets us fee, that believers areno 'uch mean and defpicable perfons as the worldgenerally takes them to be; they are Chrift’sbride,and he is their hulbind: and, O what an honour isit to be married to the Son of God 1 Having himfor sn hidb ind, they come to be related to all Chrifi’srelations; God is their Father, becaule he is hisFather; angels are their fervants, becaufe they arehis fecvants; faints are their fellow-brethren, be¬caufe they are his members ; heaven is their inheritance, becaufe it is the kingdom of their hufband.lit a word, whatever is his, is tjieirs; “ And allthings are yours, for ye are ChrilVs, and Chrift isGod’s,” 2 Cor. iii. 22, 23.(2.) For lamentation. Is it fo, that there isa marriage-relation betwixt Chrift and believers?This calls for deep lamentation, in thefc two par¬ticulars.i. It calls us to lament that Chrift fhould havefo few brides among us. though he be wooing anticourting us by the gofpel, crying, “Behold mr!behold me,” lla. Ixv. 1. Yet where is the man orwoman that is prevailed with to enter a match withthis glorious Bridegroom ? Though he be fatrer .than the fons of men, and condetcends to offermarriage with finnets, who are as black and uglyas hell itfelf, yet they fet him at nought, and givehim juft ground for that melancholy complaint,“ My peoplewould not hearken to my voice, Ifradwould have rone of me,” Pfal Ixxxi 11. And mayhe not appeal to the very material creation, to judgeof our folly, as he did of old,to Ifrael: Jer. ii 12,13.“ Hear, O heavens! and give ear, 6 earth! yea,be aftonilhed and horribly afraid ! for my pei piehave committed two great evils: they have forJaken '( 59 )rae die four,tain of living waters, and hewed thetaout ciftems, that can held no water.’’a. This doftrine may aiford us m3t:er of lamen¬tation alfo. That believers who are efpeufed tohim, fhou’d walk fo unworthily of fuch a hufband.You know, a wife flieuid demean herfelf conformto the tharaft'r of her hufbahd; and where hercarriage is bale and mean, it reflo&s a ddhonouron him. C) how yrifuitable is it to fee ChrilTs brideblackened with the filth of hell! to fee thofe whohave flricken hands with Chrift, in a marriage-covenant, j niug hands with l»Hs and idols, anddefiling themfelvcs wi h them !(3 ) for examination. Let us try if wa be thusmarried and related to Chrift; whether he be ourfcufb rd, anu we his br:d» and fpoufe.I fhail ofFitr a few matks whereby we may knowwhether or not we be married unto this glorioushufband; and they may be drawn from the conil-deration of the antecedents, the confhtuents, andthe conftquems of this marriage.iff, Try by the antecedents to the marriagecontra^. Betore ever Chrifl did contract with thee,didft thou obferve him courting thy foul before thiscontrail ? Here is a courting. Now, how didChrift court you ?i. Did he court you by the auflcrity of the law,'as with fire and fword ? Did he court you by fucha word as that, Thou art a curfed wretch ! For,“ Curfed is every one that continueth not in allthings that are written in the book of the law, to dothem/’Gs! iii 10. Did he court you by fuch a wordas that, “ Curfed is every one that doth the work ofthe Lord negligently Did he court you thus, bythe fpirit of bondage,, with the terrors of (St d, ascloathed with vengeance, telling thee, thou art anair ©f hell and wrath, a child of the devil i Did he( 20 )court thee fo as thou waft furroundad with fear andtrouble ?2. Did he court thee as by the auflerity of theiaw ; fo by the fweetnefs of the gofpel, when hefaw thee caft down, when he faw thee, a poor heavyladen finner, like to be cruflicd under thy weights?Did he then court you with fuch a word as that,“ Come unto me, all ye that labour and are he^yladen, and I will give you reft?” Mat. xi. 28. Or,with fuch a word as that, *' Ho, every one thatthirfteth, come to the waters; he that hath no moneycome, buy wine and milk without money and with¬out price ? Ifa. Iv 1 —Flee to your ftrong holds, yeprifon^rs of hope.”* Did he thus court you withthe gofpel.offer ?3. Did he court you by his love-letters? Thisis another antecedent of the contract Got you evera love-letter Cent from thrift out of heaven ? Butyou will fay, What is the love-letter? Even theBib’e,“ Search the Scriptures, thefe are they chat teftifyof me ” John v. 39. Here are the declarations ofthe love of Chrift to thy foul: here are love promift sin thefe letters. Have you read and pondered them ?And can you fay tint Cf.nlt fp.ke them into yourReart ? If it be a text that was preached upon, or ifit be a fingle word, O Chnft dropt that into myheart! and I think it will go with me to my death¬bed, it came to me with fuch life and power. Ina word, Got you any gifts before the marriage-con-fratft, fuch as the gift of true conviction fhch as thegift of heart-rontrition. the gift of real humiliation,the gift of felf denial, the gift of faith ? Thefe aregiven, fome before, feme at the contract.2dly, Try by the conftiruems of the marriage.If this marriage be made up betwixt Chrift• od thee, theo thou haft put away all lovers bJidfsChrift; the right hand will be cutoff, the right tyeput ou:; you will be divorced from all other huf-bands, particularly from the law. Ye mufl be deadto the law, that ye miy be married to another huf-band, even to Ctirift. But you will fay, What is it! to be dead to the law ? 1 anfwer, It is not to lay itafide as the rule of obedience, life, and converfation;I but to be dead to the law, is to be fenfible that thelaw cannot fave us as a covenant of works. It igto difclaim all hopes of being juftified by the law,or by our works or obedience to it. I fee Chrift,the g'oriou; hulband, hath brought in an everlabingrighteoufnefs, anfwering the law fully : this is thegarment I mud put on, and caft off my old filthyrags.2. Hid thou given a cordial confent upon thecontraft-day ? Can you fav you was enabled to takehim, as the Pfalmid, “ O my foul! thou had faidunto the Lord, thou art my Lord;” and thou artmy God my Head, my HofljoiJ ? Have you givena rational and fupernatural confent ? a deliberate,chade, (tayed, folemn, peremptory content ? Didj you fay it with an air of heaven, that he was yours,and fhall be fo tor ever ? It is true, perfons may bematched to Chrift who cannot condefcend on theprecife time; the Spirit may work fome way thatwe cannot know ; yet it is his ordinary way with hisbride, after many tofiings, to break in with raviih-ing, conquering Iwettnels, to draw forth her foulto a tolernn remarkable doling with him, amt con-fenfmg to him. Have you then been engaged tomake over yourfelf to the Bridegromn, by an unre*ferved rt fignation of yourltlf to him, that you willnot only take him wholly, and for ever, forholin«fsand happinets, for light and lile, (or grace and glory,but alio make over ycurleif to him, foul ard body,whatever you are whatever you hove been? Haveyou been thua made to yield y u; felves unt-> theLord ? Ate you one with him? Have you cne fpirit<with him ? Are you of one faith with him, of one waywith him, endeavouring to walk as he walked? “Hethat is joined to the Lord is one fpirit,” i Cor. iv. 17.3. Can you fay, that, upon the marriage day yougot a marriage gift from the Bridegroom? Amongthe Jews, the bridegroom gave a marriage gift tohis bride: Now, what gift got you on this marriageday ? Can you fay, indeed I got the wedding gar¬ment ; he clothed me with his righteoufnefs, whichhe fpan out of his own bowels, weaved with his ow*hand, and dyed with his own blood; and thus all'my guilt is covered, the curfe is done away ? Thisis indeed what few get; yet fome have been, andare able to fay, I am delivered from the wrath tocome; and there is no condemnation tc me; andon fuch a time I got alfo an ornament of the grace?of the Spirit, which I wear as jewels, vizt faith, love,obedience, patience, humility; and I got rhepromtfeof an hundred fold heie, and i am expecting moregifts yet, before the marriage be confummate; lamexpecting the afinrance, I live in the hope of glory,I expert a fcaled pardon of tdl my fins, and I look toget the earneft of the Spirit and more every day4. Another constituent of the marriage-contraCtis, the bride, on that day. pur- cfF one vail, and putson another. This was the Jews cuftom, the bridespur off the vail of bafhfulneLs. and put cn the vailof fubjeftion. Chrid’s bride, before the marriage,cannot look the Bridegroom in ihtfface, is afhamedto look upon him ; but fhe is made to put off this vailin the preknee of her former lovers, and to takeChrift by the hand, and then die puis on the vailof fu' je&ion whereby the promitee. in his ftrength,to fubjeft herfeif to her Hufb nd’s will. Have wethus p, intfed to be obedient to his commands, in hisown llrength whatrver he irjoins us to door fuffer.jdly, Fry by the confiq-t nts of this marriage.Would you know if there has been a contract be-( *3 )j|wixt Chrift and you? Try then by the immediatejconfequents.i. Did you fee the King in his beauty, and fuch2 ^lory and excellency in him as could not be paral-'!Jelled by ail the glory of ten thiufand worlds?a. What was your eonverfe with him on thec ntraft-day ? Can you fay. He embraced me in hisarms, and f embraced him in my heart, and therewas fweet communion and fellowfhip betwixt himland me ?3. Waft thou crowned on the marriage-day, foas thou waft known by others, as it were, to be the ,ibnde of Chrift ? The Jews not only crowned theBridegroom, but the bride alfo. You fee whatthe crown is that Chrift’s bride ftiould have, Rev.xii. 1, “ There appeared a great wonder in heaven !a woman clothed with the fun, and the moon underler feet, and on her head a crown of twelve ftars.”*o the bride of Chrift is crowned with the dodriceof the twelve apoftl«.4. The bride of Chrift keeps at home, and de¬lights in the bride-chamber. Thij is her delightaii the days of her life, “ To dwell in the houfe ofthe Lord, and to enquire in his temple.” Ordi¬nances will be fweet, being the galleries whereinftie King is held.Laftly, and to conclude, Try by the qualities oftne bride, that are alfo cdnftquents of the marriage.1. If you be Chrift s. bride, then you y/ill love. the bridegroom. Love is what every wife owes toi.her hufband ; much more doth the believer owe itito Chrift, who hath exprefled far more Icve to hisb ide than ever a hulband did to a wife; ‘ He lovedh r, and gave himfelf for her.” He fhed the hotteftr'laod of his heart to fave and redeem her. Youw ill love him with a love of define : ‘ With my fouliave I defired thee in the night:” with a love ofMight: “ My meditation of him fhall he fweet:thee to my chiefeS joy,” Pfal. cxxvii. 5, 6. They 1that habitually love hufhand, wife, children,riches, |or any other thing, more than Chrilt, have no rea- SIfon to think that they are matched with him.Chrift for grace and glory; and commits all to hi m, '|and expe&s all from him. The foul that is efpouf- •ed to Chrilt, looks on the infinite virtue of hisblood, the infinite efficacy of his S, irit, the infinitefulnefs of his grace, di men lions of his love, andfaithfulnefs of his promifes; and there fees ; n in¬finite ground of hope, and roils all cn him.Lastly, If we be mailed\o Chrift, we willintereit to their own honour; but the believer fays, ;when under any lively influence,. Let my Matter iincrCfife, and me decreafe. 1 ho’ my name fliould :never oe heard of in the world, let Ohrid, be ex¬ulted. 01 if the greatefi etihr*i|f kney what w erein our Lord, they would come and join with him,as I have done. Oil wouid have all the worldFINIS.[Falkirk, 7. jihxsUn, Printer.')