ALETTERFROMQ_UEBECK, in Canada,T OM. L’MAINE, A FRENCH OFFICER.Which contains a particular ACCOUNT ofthe prefent defigns of the French upon theEngtijb in North-America; what force theFrench have colle<3ed, their feveral divi-fions, and the places defin’d for each. Like-wifc an Account of the defencelcfs conditionof the Englijh provinces and colonies, and themethod made ufe of by the French to procurefuch intelligence.BOSTON printed:E T) I N .B U R G H reprinted; Sold byW. Gray and W. Peter, at their Shopoppofite to the Crofs.M.D.CC.LV.( ^ )^uebeckj February 6. 1753*To Monf. L Maine.sir,r I ''PI E day of my arrival at this place, II fent dlfpatches to all the commandingofficers in New-France, to meet meMvithin ten days at Montreal: I alfo immediatelyfent expreffes to all the commanding officersat Miffifippi, to mufter with all expedition,the natives inlifted in his moft Chriftian maje-fty’s fervice, to join our troops from France,and proceed forthwith to Ohio, there to followfuch dire&ions as from time to time they ffiallreceive from us at Canada : and according torime appointed, I met monf. Duverney atMontreal, with our other officers, at which in¬terview, I received a moft agreeable accountfrom them, in favour of our royal mafter’s in-tereft, which gives us a glorious prolpeft offoon adding a kingdom unto our dread fove-reign’s dominions ; for by their account fromnorth to fouth, they have inlifted into his ma-jefty’s fervice four or five thoufand refoluteyoung natives amorfg the feveral tribes ; andthole have been for fome time dilciplin’d, andWell equipt with all necefiaries. They allb im*form me, that our regulars from France, withU*c natives included, at Miffifippi, amount toA a near( 4 Jnear two thoufand four hundred, who are tobuild many ftrong forts at Ohio and places ad¬jacent, which in a little time we expcft willftove impregnable again ft any force the En-glijft can raife in thofe parts. The cannon forfaid forts is already difpatched.Our army at Canada, with our regulars in¬cluded, will amount to near five thoufand,which we determine to divide into three mainbodies, one to be commanded by count Mon-tery, the fecond by monf. Bo. id, and the thirdhy monf Eftrides. Count Montery to pro¬ceed to Crown-Point, a , divide his fquadroninto parties on the back of Albany. The fe-cond divifion under monf. Boriel, on the backof Maryland and Pennfylvania ; and the thirdiunder monf. Eftrides, on the back of New-Engiand ; which are all to be divided intoparties, as the commanding officers {hall judgeproper. We defign only to lend ftnall partiesof Indians into their back fettlements, tobring us frefti fupplies of provifion, until weare properly fortified. Father Anthony, byan uncommon affiduity and influence, hasgained over to our intereft, a number of youngmen of the fix nations, who by the Englijb arelook’d upon as our enemies ; let that fulpiciotiremain, and they may keep the old men andwomen.I muft not omit to acquaint you, that our newgovernour is more and more zealous and refo-lute to be a principal inftrument (with the uni-.ted affiftanceof the houlcs of Bourbon) to fubdueand extirpate Hereticks out of America. Andfuch a glorious acquifition, will add a king¬dom.( J )dom, which will prove fuperiour tb Scotlandand Ireland, and furnifh dores of every kindfor his moft Chriftian and catholic majelly’snavy; and provifions and other neceflarieseven to profufion, for the fupply of their royalmajefly’s poflelfions in the weft-indies.Our young hero, the prefen t governour ofCanada, did not take this task upon him, ofmaking a conqueft of that part of North-Ame-rica poftefs’d by the Englijb, only from a mo¬tive which makes him ruler thereof, and be-caule he has not a fuperiour title ; but his pre-fent difpofition animates him to be revengedon the Englijb Heretics for the late indignitiesoffer’d his illuftrious perfbn and royal prede-ceffors ; and is come into thefe parts, inveftedwith the power and authority of church andftate, and fupported with money and otherafliftance, by his moft Chriftian and catholicmajefties, and has likewife received the fu-preme fan&ion and fovereign benediflion ofhis holinefs the Pope, to drive out of Americapeftilent Heretics, to make room for good Ca¬tholics. I have alfo the fatisfa&ion of ac¬quainting you, that the regiments railed in theSwitz cantons feme time part, which our go¬vernour brought over with him, are in highfpirits, zealous to affift us againft the Engtijh,and conceive an infinite fatisfattion at ourprefent profpeft of pofieffing thole fruitfullands now enjoy’d by the Englijb.I have lately had a conference with MfLai(h,an Irilh Jefuit, of the order of St. Patrick, apolitic ingenious man, who has been amongthe feveral tribes, influencing and inlifting theA 3 natives( <s )natives into his moftChriflianmajefty’s (ervlce she gives me a very fuccinft and latisfadtoryaccount of the leveral tribes of natives nearCanada, that upon any emergent occafions,we may oommand what numbers we fhallhave occafion for. H<i gives me alfo a particularrelation of the leveral provinces inhabited bythe EnpHJh on the fea coafts, and appears per¬fectly acquainted with their manners and cu-ftoras. He informs me there are many ofour hearty friends among them, with whomhe has fettled a correfpondenee by letters, bythe way of Cape-Breton, and from thence toQuebeck. The Englijh (he fays) are oar goodtriends ; that the meafures we have concerted^could not be fo efieCtually carried on, were itnot that one hundred fail of their velfels year¬ly arrive at Cape-Breton, with provifion andother necelfaries from Philadelphia, New-York,Bofton, Rhode-Illand, &c. which, by a mo¬derate computation, have brought this year10,000 barrels of flour, 5000 barrels of porkand beeff, 1500 tons of bread, and of butter,cheefe, hogs, neat cattle, and poultrey, evento profufion ; fome of which is fent to our(buthern plantations, and the king’s commilfi-oners fupply the magazines at Cape-Breton,and lend large quantities to our army at Que¬beck, which elevates the fpirits of our foldiers.We have allb a good fupply of powder by theway of Cape-Breton. M’Lailh’s fentimentsof the Englijh bordering on the lea-coaft islatisfa&ory ; they having little or no militarydilcipline among them, no arms nor ammuni¬tion, neither do they know properly how to{ 7 )u(c them, except thofe Oliverum Heretics whotook our Cape-Breton ; thele caft a damp onour undertakings; they have the fame gover-nour Shirley, who is an enterprizing, refoluteman ; and when he, and the puritan mini-fters, fay to the inhabitants, Go, fight for yourreligion and country, they rufh like lions, andhad rather die in battle, than fubmit to thedictates of our holy fathers, Jefuits, Friers, andMonks, and become members of our motherchurch. They retain the moll martial fpiritof any in North-America, and have a tinftureof Oliver Cromwell’s blood remaining; there¬fore for the prefent, we fiiall not erett anyforts bordering near them. Should we attemptfuch a thing, even with ten thoufand men,M‘ Lailh is confident we fhould be prevented,and all our meafures difconcerted, by the vi¬gilance of thole New-England Heretics ; forif they could take Cape-Breton (which we ima¬gin’d to be impregnable) what can we fuppolethey could not effeft, when their indignationand refentment provokes them to oppofe ourencroachments on their territories ? And theyare lenfible, that when once we become theirmailers, fire and gibbet will be their portion, ifthey do not fill down and worlhip the imageswe Hull fet up.Our defign is to get footing in the weftemprovinces. Lord Baltimore was one of ourmother church, and a good friend to kingJames; and in Maiyland and Virginia, andthofe parts, there are many true Catholics thatwill not fight their brethren. M‘Lailh ac¬quaints me, the inhabitants of Pennfyivaniaare( 8 )area meek peaceable people, who will neitherfurnifli money, arms, nor ammunition, thatif you will take their coat, they will give yontheir cloak alfo : thefe we fhall indulge withmany privileges, for their not oppofing ourmeafures, and quitely furrendering theirLands, and fubmitting to the godly admoni¬tions of our holy fathers.M‘ Laifh like wife acquaints me, that fromNew-York wefhvard, the inhabitants are notfuch bigots to religion, therefore may moreeafily be prevailed on to be of our holy reli¬gion. The rich traders in thofe parts, are notconcerned at our erefting forts near them,from a view of private gain in the fur trade.And M‘Laifh fays, the Englijh might havedemolilhed Crown-Point, but many in Albanyand Mew-York have receiv’d confiderable ad¬vantages by our fur trade, by which, we havealfo been benefited, in receiving ammunition,&c. in exchange.There is now a difpute between our grandmonarch and the Englijh, relating to the boun¬dary line in the north, and what are call’d theNeutral Wands, in South-America ; but hismoft Chrifti an majefly is determin’d to decidethe con troverfy very foon : he is now peoplingthe Neutral Wands, and what cannon will berequifite to fortify the fame, is already atMartinico. From Canada and Mifiifippi weare to have a fu/Tierent number of regulartroops to join the natives, lb foon as we areprepar’d to receive them, and thofe to be dif-perfed on the back of the Englifi, betweenCrown-Point and Ohio. Our officers are di¬rected( 9 )retted to fend proper perfons into the Ettvlifkprovinces, to make a more perfett difeoveryof their flrength and weaknefs: tho(e are todeceive the EngUJh [which French Policy hasfrequently done! ] by amufing them, with be¬ing delerters.Our grand monarque’s will and pleafure is,that we immediately build ftrong forts betweenCrown-Point and Ohio, fiifficient to fecure fif¬ty thoufand men, and fb fituated, that uponany extraordinary occafion, they may imme¬diately unite and oppofe the Englijh, if theyfhould attempt to oppofe us ; but, at prefent,they appear unconcern’d and fecure : how¬ever, their numbers cannot terrify us, whenthey have no difeipline or union. Had theyas many as Mexico, before the conqueft, couldboa ft of, our regulars, headed by our hero, theprelent governour, would deftroy as manythoufands as Cortes did of the Mexicans.I muft, with fecret pleafure to ourfelves,tell you, Sir, that we are pitying, not envy¬ing the Englijh who are peopling Nova-Scotia:in thus fatiguing themfelves in clearing land,and expending confiderable fums in building,&c. as his moft Chriftian majefty’s pleafure is,to prepare a large fquadron to deprive themof their labour and poflefTions : then will theycry out, “ Who would have imagined this“ would have befallen us, when no more di-“ fturbance has been at home ? ” When thisis effetted, the Englijh may undertake by re-monftrances, to complain of a violation andinfringement of Treaties.  X( 10 )1 need not inform you, Sir, of our wellConcerted plan, which is, to keep New-En-gland, South-Carolina and Georgia fully en¬gaged to defend their own territories, in or¬der to prevent their affifling the interveningprovinces, which will fall an ca(y prey, astheir ports will be block’d up by our ihips,and thofe of his Catholic majefty’s, who haveallb a fufficient number to divert the Englijhfquadrons, and keep them at home $ at whichtime, with our numerous Indian allies, we(hall enter the Englijh provinces of New-York,rennlylvania, Virginia, &c. Our Indian al¬lies eaftward, are to attack the caftward fet-tlements ; and his Catholic majefty to tran-fport a number of regulars from the Havanna,•who are to attack Georgia and South-Carolina,which will be added to his other dominions ofNew-Spain; and his molt Chriflian majeftyto pofteft all the land from South-Carolina toNewfoundland.I need not caution you, Sir, to conceal thecontents of this letter, which you muft be fen-fible ftiould remain an entire fecrer, left theEnglijh ftiould dilcover the meafures we haveconcerted : and while they are amufing them-felves with idle difputes and debates, and oneprovince contending, and promoting jealou-ftes, and raifing groundlefs fufpicions of eachother, without making any preparations fordefence, let us* unite as one body, as loyalfubje&s and good catholics, then ftiall we ac-complifti our glorious - undertaking, and ling2$ D:um} and celebrate mafs in thofe placeswhich( ” )which have been long defil’d by the breath ofHeretics./ remain,Sir,Tour obedient Servant,De Roche,Sold at W. Gray and W. PeterVPrice 5 s. 6 d.The HISTORY of the five IndianNations of CANADA,■WHICH AREThe Barrier between the English andFrench in that Part of the World.WITHParticular Accounts of their Religion, Manners, Cu-ftoms, Laws and Government; their feveral Bat¬tles and Treaties with the European Nations jtheir Wars with other Indians',ANDA true Account of the prefent State of our Tradewith them.In which are ftiewn, The great Advantage of theirTrade and Alliance to the Britijh Nation; andthe Intrigues and Attempts of the French to en¬gage them from us; a Subjedt nearly concerningall our American Plantations, and highly meritingthe Confideration of the Britijh Nation.By the Honourable Cadwallader Golden, Efq;One of his Majefty’s Council, and Surveyor-Ge¬neral of Nrui-York.To which are added, Accounts of the feveral otherNations of Indians in North-America, theirNumbers, Strength, <bc. and the treaties whichhave been lately made with them.I