I >BRIEF INQUIRYmINTO THE 'i ■ •ORIGIN AND TENDENCYOFSACRAME*PREACHIlfIS YS.To which is added,AN ADVICE TO YOUTH.ONSacramental Preaching-Days.IT is well known that in all the Presbyterian con¬nexions in this country, national and dissenting,the celebration of the Lord’s Supper is attendedwith a number of extra preaching-days- The previ-ous Thursday is •wholly devoted to fasting, and pray¬er, and preaching. The previous Saturday is con¬sidered as a day of preparation, to assist in which,two sermons are ordinarily preached. The followingMonday is regarded as a day of thanksgiving, toassist in which exercise, two sermons are alsopreached. Besides, on the Sacrament Sabbath, es¬pecially in country places, there is usually an extracongregation, collected from the surrounding neigh-^urhood, to whom a number of discourses are de¬livered in rotation, ‘ om morning till evening. Fewpeople, however, are aware that this practice is en¬tirely peculiar to Scotland, and that, except amongthe descendants of emigrants originally from thiscountry, it is quite unknown beyond the boundariesof ancient Caledonia.Wha* then is the or gim of a practice so singular,and of which the b dy of professing Christians inthis country are so very tenacious ?1. It has no foundation in the Bible—neitherprecept nor example can be found there to coun¬tenance it. This is so universally admitted, thatit would be unnecessary to stay and prove it. Nooni no*’ pretends to find any thing in the Bible3ibear'mg the most, distant resemblance to a modernSacrament. ^2. This practice did not originate with the Scot¬tish Reformers, the founders of the Presbyterian[system in Scotland. In proportion as proiessorsidecay in vital religion, in that proportion do theyibecome fond of external splendour and show—of1a multiplicity of ceremonies and holy-days, in re-iligion. Accordingly we find, that, as vital godliness: declined in the primitive churches, ceremonies andholy-days were introduced and multiplied, till, atilength, every trace of the primitive Christian wor¬ship disappeared; and the public profession ofChristianity becoming a mass of the m6st ludicrcnsmummery—of the most childish rites, retainednothing of the religion of Heaven but ti e name.When the churches of the Reformation withdrewfrom Rome, they brought away with them, andstill retain too many of those meretricious ornaments,in which the man of sin arrayed the religion ofJesus. To the honour of the Scotch Reformers it| must be rematked, however, that they were in thisrespect in a great measure singular. They rejectedall unsciiptural ceremonies and holy-days, andI adopted a mode of worship sufficiently simple, andI well adapted to all the ends ot instruction and edifica-i tion. Of such a religious festival, as is now called aSacramental occasion- they never dreamed'. Thedirectory for public w'orship, adopted by them, isnot only silent on it, but inconsistent with it. Dr.: M'Crie in his Life of Melville, speaking of the! attempt of King James to establish a religious! anniversary to cumcmorate his escape from thej conspiracy Of the Earl c f Gow-rie, on. the offi ofAugust 1G00; «ay$, “ This appointment was atvariance with the principles of the Church of Scot¬land, which, ever since the:Reformation, lad con¬demned and laid aside the observance of relipiou/anaiversancs, and of ail recurring holidays, wit;the e:c..%;ion of the weekly restV'* This systeuthen did rv>t originate \vith the Reformers—was n<part of the Presbyterian worship as originally adopted in Scotland, and approved of by them.3. it is not the result of the collective wisdom o;combined sagacity of any of the great deliberativecourts, that usually regulated the affairs of religionin Scotland, in former times.Though we meet with acts, almost innumerable,civil and ecclesiasPc, enacting—enjoining—ordain¬ing various things relative to religion, yet we lookin vain for an Act of Parliament—of Assembly—oh Synod or of Presbytery, enjoining that the ad«P)inistra:io.n of the Sacrament be attended with aroutine of preaching-days. “ It is to be observed,”,says Mr. Douglas, “ that these days were not allintroduced at once, nor in consequence of any gen¬eral consent or pre-concerted plan ; for they are themere offspring of incidental circumstances, and canclaim no relation to wisdom and counsel as theirnarenty.”How then, it will be asked, were they intro¬duced ? I answer, strange as the answer may ap¬pear, no one knows with certainty when or how !;Were we tracing to its origin, one of those customswhich took their rise in the midnight darkness ofpopery, disappointment were naturally to be ex¬pected 5 but that a custom that cannot boast of twohundred years standing—that has obtained so uni¬versally—and of which, the body of the people areso tenacious, cannot be traced, but by conjecture,to its rise,' iHnot a.Ii1 tie curious! They were in¬troduced,” says' Ur. Mason, “ ltk,e all other, un-vrarrauidd rites'—by slealdn. T>iey originate,, per-* Life <H Melville, vch ii. page Kl.j Diffcpues cn the Lord's Sujn-r,—Lialojue ,5th5.aps, in accident; tV.cy are con'jihiied ^itlroht de¬ign; the popularity of a name recommends them> respect; one imitates another ; and th^is, or everre are aware, they glide into the worship of God,«d usurp the dignity of his institutions.’' And;gain, o it: seems evident that they crept/nto thehurch by dsgrat; that custom regardless of theleason of things, and equally tenacious of the wrongs of tha right, transmitted them to posterity ; andpat undistinguishing habit, and the belief of theItadle, have numbered them with the ordinances of2$vs Christ.’'*It is more than probable, that they were graduallyntroduced during the prevalence of Episcopacy,.nd of the cruel persecution by which it was intro-luced and established against the general sentimentif the nation, during the first forty years of the 17thentury. In the course of this period, many godlyonscientious ministers were banished to Ireland,vhere they preached with great saseess, and fromvhence they occasionally visited their native land,o preach to their countrymen. On'those occasions,he people crowded from all parts of the country) hear them, and to enjoy the Lord’s Supper inhe way to which they had been accustomed. No-hing was more natural than that the people, whonad literally a famine of the word of God, shouldm those occasions eagerly desire as many sermonss could be afforded ; and that those godly menhould, as far as possible, gratify them. Saturdaynd Monday Sermons, were therefore, exceedinglyiat>»;al, when crowds were collected at the ap-lointed places, on, or before Saturday, who couldrot retire to their homes till the following week.—It is indeed probable, that such occurrences,icwsionally at least, took place previously 10 the* Letters tfn frequent Communion,—Letter Gth,6height of the persecution which drove them intobanishment. While many of their brethren fellin with the prevailing practice, the peeple wouldnaturally fellow those who held by their ownbeloved system, and suffered persecution for con¬science' sake; and the attachment of the body ofthe people to them, and their aversion to the Epis¬copalian and temporizing Presbyterian clergy,would naturally increase the violence of the perse¬cution against them.In Ireland, the zealous labours of those men pro¬duced a considerable revival of religion. “ Duringthis time,” says Mr. Randal, “ one sermon on Satur¬day, and one on Monday, was all that they had;and generally but one minister assisting during thewhole,”* From this extract it appears, that a prac¬tice to which persecution had given rise in Scotland,was continued, probably without the same necessity,in Ireland. We may, therefore, conclude, thatwhen those good men leturned to their native land,about the year 1638, they imported this practice;into their former scene of labour, where it has con¬tinued with various modifications t» this day.The late Dr. Erskine, speaking of the origin o|this plan, says, *• I know no certain account of thanmatter. It began, says one, in the persecuting times,when many ministers under hiding, and the wholePresbyterians of a country, by stealth, got togetherAnd when they met together for this end, (to earthe Lord’s Supper,) it may be once In several yearsthey knew not how often to preach ; and the peophhad a boundless appetite to hear, so long as tbejc mld subsist and be safe.”fAs to Sacramental Fasts, Mr. Randal suppose* Letter to a minister af the church of Scotland from his Mendconcerning frequent Communicating. Postcrif t,| Disserutiou on frequent Communicating.7that they are also from Ireland. During the re¬sidence of the Scotch ministers in that country,they jointly held a monthly meeting for fasting;and frequently the Lord’s Supper was celebratedin one or other of their parishes, on the followingSabbath. “ I know,” says, Mr. Randal, “ no suchlikely beginning to our Fasts befoie our Sacramentsas this is.”*It is true, that Mr. Livingston preached on theMonday after the Sacrament at the Kirk of Shots,in the year 1630, but this sermon being preachedat the particular request of Lady Culross, and withsome reluctance on tiis part, proves that it was notthen customary, nor understood to have any connex¬ion with the Lord’s Supper.The foregoing conjectures of various writers,who have enquired into the subject, furnish Us withthe only probable Origin of this ; and had itbeen laid aside when the ca*rse winch gave rise toit ceased to operate, it had been welt. But thecontinuance of it without any adequate cause, orrational use. has done no little injury.Before entering on the second part of the inquiryviz. the tendency of this system, I must premisetwo things.1. That I have no objections to week-day sermonsa: such. It is the duty of preachers to “ be instantin season and out of seasonand where peopleare ready to hear, the opportunity ought to beeagerly embraced ; and may be expected to befollowed with happy effects.2. That I have no doubt, that Sacramentalpreaching-days may have been made useful on manyoccasions, in the conversion of sinners, and buildingup ot believers in faith and holiness. God haspromised that his word shall not return unto him• Letter, &c.—Postcript,8void} and wherever dispensed according to hisown institution, his blessing may be expected withit. Yet notwithstanding these concessions, I main¬tain, with Dr. Mason, that this system is “ attendedwith great and serious evils.”* These evils, mayperhaps be comprehended under two heads—puttingthe Lord’s Supper out of its proper place, and con¬tributing to its profanation.1. The system of preaching-days has put theLord’s Supper out its proper place among gospelifistitutions. That the Lord’s Supper made a partof the public worship of the primitive churches,every first day of the aveek, admits not of rationaldoubt. What else would any man unfettered bysystem, infer from the following passages, Acts ii.4.2. “ They continued stedfastly in the apostles'doctrine, and fellowship, and breaking of bread,and prayers.” Here, the breaking of bread is men¬tioned, not as an extraordinary occurrence, butas a part of the ordinary duties of stated publicworship. Acts sx. 11 On the first day of theweek, when the disciples came together to breakbread, Paul preached unto them,” Here, it isevident, that one special design of their coming to¬gether, on the first day of the week, was to breakbread. 1 Cor. xi. 20. “ When ye come together,therefore, unto one place, this is not to eat theLord's Supper.’’ This shews that the avowed de.sign of their coming together was to eat the Lord’sSupper ; but that their manner of doing it was incon¬sistent with this design. These passages, mutuallyillustrate and confirm one another; and it wouldbe a violent wresting of them, to compel them tospeak any other language.Nor was this the practice of the apostolic churchesmerely, but continued for ages the invariable practiceLetters on frequent Communion.-*-Letter 7th.9of all Christian societies. The late Mr. Randal,after having minutely investigated the tcccrds ofthe primitive ages-of Christianity, on this subject,thus concludes, “ Consider then antiquity in wiiatview you please, the elder or the later accounts;—consider it among enemies or friends;—view it inits trutli or in its lies;—in its simplicity or in itssup-rstitions ;—consider all the accounts, which allsous of men have given; take the evidence from asdistant cornets of the world, and opposite charactersin it as you please, from those who have no biasbut to the truth, or from such whose opinions andinterests would lead them to give this subject a col¬our if it could bear it,—and all with one voice shalldeclare, that to come together on the first day ofthe week to break bread, was from the beginningand for many ages, the custom, the uninterrupted,unquestioned, undisputed practice of all Christianchurches: as much so, as it was their practice tosanctify the Lord’s day, or to pray, praise, or preachthe apostles’ doctrine on it:—that as this was themost distinguishing part of their worship, so wasit what they and their worship was described by,and the action by which among themselves, theLord s day was known, what consequently theywould least and last of all have omitted, whileany degree of the purity of the gospel remainedamong them.”*The late Mr. Brown of Haddington, is equallydecisive on the subject “That the Sacrament oPthe Lord’s Supper,” says he, “ was generally ad¬ministered every Lord’s day for the space of threehundred years, is beyond dispute.”-j-• Letter to a minister of the churah of Scotland from his friend,concerning frequent Commnnicating.f Apology for the frequent administration of the Lord's Sup¬per, page C.10It appears that the Reformers were generally ofthe same mind on this subject, although from therude materials on which they had to work, theywere obliged to temporize. Calvin says, expressly,that “ the Lord’s table ought to be spread for hischildren every Lord’s day ” The Genevan Refor¬mers introduced it monthly into their church, and itappears that the Scotch Reformers, as was to beexpected, followed their example; for the “ Bookof common Order,” supposes that the Lord’s Sup¬per was administered once a month. But with thepresent preaching appendages, it is impossible tomake any thing like an approach toward the primi¬tive practice. ^ Thus a set of unscriptural holy-days—the mere invent!' ns of men, have put the L°ru sSupper out of its own place among gospel institu¬tions have driven it into a corner. Nor. let it beremembered, is the view of this subject maintainedin this Inquiry, peculiar to those who act upon it.Presbyterians, both in and out of the establishment,I'.ave lately advocated the cause of weekly com-munion, by arguments that cannot be refuted, .writings of Randal and Erskine in the Establish¬ment, of Douolas and Hutcheson among theRelief, and of Brown and Mason among the Se-oeders, are well known, and well worthy of theattention of all who would inquire into this subject.I am «lad to know, that a respectable Presbyteriancongregation in Paisley, Lave been for years in thehabit of eating the Lord’s Supper monthly. Itrust, they are aware, that » they have not yetattained, neither are already perfect” that theyhAve no more Bible authority for monthly, thanthev have for yearly communion ; except that theore*is nearer the Divine title than the other.‘2. The system of preaching-days has put the:Lord’s Supper out of its place, in point of solemnityand importance.11The Lord’s Suppef is a very solenfiji, a *07 im¬portant ordinance ; but that ;t is so in a manner orin a degree peculiar to itselfi is without proof nreason or in Scripture- What Paul rays to theCorinthians on this subject, (1 Epistle chap, it )arises not from any peculiar solemnity in this ordi¬nance, but from the manner m which they pros!••liter1and profaned it. All the ordinances of the Lordare solemn and important, and to proface any dfthem is highly criminal. The ordinance of Paplism,for instance, is instituted by the same authority, anddesigned to represent the same truth—the salvationof sinneis by the death of Christ; must it not thenbe equally solemn, and equally important; andmu'-t not the abuse or profanation cf it be equallycriminal. Yet how few are there, even amongChristians, who v>ew the subject in this light—Who would sot shudder at the thought of placingbaptism on a level, in point of solemnity and in>portance, with the Lord’s Supper Now whencedoes this supposed disparity atise? Not fromthe language of scripture on the subj-qt of theseinstitutions, surely “ Baptizing them in thename of the Father, and of ihe Sen and of trHoly Ghost,” is, to say the least of it, just as solemnand impressive, as, ‘ Do this in lemembrance ofme.’—4 As often as ye eat this bread and drink thiscup ye do shew the Lord’s death till he come.’Not from the nature of these institutions, for if theyare enjoined by the same authority-—distinct partsoi the same religious system, and designed to re¬present the same important truth, they mint healike solemn in their nature, and al’ke entitled tocur reverence and veneration. It must arise'there¬fore, principally, from the spurious glare thrownaround the latter by a parade of. holy-days, anda train of prescribed exercises, by means of whichevery other ordinance is thrown into the shade, anddwindles into comparative insignificancy !mof preiching-days lias put theLord’s Supper (Sut of its proper place, in the aiftc*tions of the Lord’s people.There preaching-days have now been so long,and so closely appended to it, that they are viewedas an essential part of it; so much sO, t hat to proposeto Jay them aside, wouli, in the esteem even of se¬rious Christians, be nearly as bad as giving up theLord’s Supper In fact, it is not eating the Lord’sSupper, but the preaching-Jays, that in the estima¬tion of the bulk: of Christians constitute the Sacra¬ment ! It is these that Consulate its main importance—it's principal charm ; hence appropi lately enoughcalled the'prea-chir'is* Strip it of'these external de¬corations—exhibit it in its native and frrimjtivesimplicity—introduce it as a part of the public wor¬ship of every L rd’s day, and it will require nolittle training, to bring die minds of many Chrisdar sin t! is country, to view it without contempt Suchis the baneful ii iluence cL attempting to improveon the plans of Divine wisdom, and of adding tothe ihstitutions of the Lord ! besides, the false andfearful solemnity thrown ovei the Lord’s Supperby these unscriptural appendages, contributes greatlyto mar the peace and destroy the confidence of ser¬ious Christians in this delightful service. In placeof eating the Lord’s Supper with the confidenceand freedom of children placed around their heav-erdy Father’s board, they frequently approach withfear and trembling, their minds are possessed withfearful apprehensions of displeasing him, and soincurring his wrath ; and their service is thus des¬titute of enjoyment, and their worship is often at¬tended vnth a ‘ spirit^of bondage unto fear,’ unsuit-able to their character, displeasing to God, and nota little distres-sing to their own minds. Now, withsuch apprehensions, and feelings, and views, theLord’s Supper cannot be approached with delight,mnor regarded with aiFection. The p.reac1iinp-dayimay he attended ■' pleasure, and with pr fit;but the table ot the Lnd is rather an object rf fear,than of delightful ariticipatior.—a tcene of fear andtrembling; rather than of filial confidence and joyin God. Now, this state of things which is by no■means uncommon, must, in the case of Christians,arise in a great measure from the distorted viewsof its nature and design which these extra days,■with their u<ua'l services, are calculated to inspire.Whereas, when viewed in its native simphcity, un¬encumbered with human inventions, as a comme-moratien of the death of Christ, and a svmbnhcalrepresentation of the fellowship of ail ti e childrenof God with the Father, and with'his S m JesusChrist, and with one another in the enjoyment ofthe common salvation, it is calculated in the highestdegree, to inspire the Christian’s mind wi h o rfi-dence, and joy in God.* But, not only have thepreaching-days put the Lord’s .Supper out of itsproper place in every point of view, but they have.2, Greatly contributed to its profanation.This is no doubt a serious charge, a chagge thatwould need to be well supported, seeing they areprofessedly designed to prevent this evil: yet, 1 am* From the misapplication of such passages, (Exod chaptersxix. anil xx.) many of ths best of Christians approach their re¬conciled God and Father with a slavish fear like tfat of thsIsraelites wlicn approaching the mount that burned with fire;or that of Peter when he said, '* depart from me for I am asinful man.” They sit down at the table of the Lord, with asgreat terror as the high priest entered ihe holiest of all.”—“ Doubtless, the seldom dispensing this cidinance has !ed manyof the less judicioi s, into such melancholy superstitious appre¬hensions, and roused such terrors in their minds, that they gouldnot attend upon God in this institution without distraction, andthus were deprived rf much of the comfort and bent fit, whichol ’ erwise they would have reaped from it,” ■ El shine’sDissertation on frequeat Corrmunisating.—Section 3d.14persuaded, the charge will be found but too easilymade n.To protane a religious ordinance is, either torender it contemptible in ti e eyes >f men, or toapply it to purposes for which it was nor designed*Now. in both these respects, the 'Lord's Supper isgreuly profaned by this nnscriptural system.—Itis rendeted contemptible in the eyes ot all thinkingmen, whether religious or otherwise.Contempbre, for a moment; the scene of acountry Sacrament Sabbath. A. number of th&neighbouring ministers must attend, t > assist—theirpari hes, or congregations, if Dissenters, are leftvacant—should the day be favourable, the bulk, ofthe population of these parishes crowd to the Sacra¬ment ; many, no doubt, from pious motives, butthe multitude, principally youth of both sexes, torthe same purpose for which they would go to a fairor a marker.—amusement and diversion, to see mdbe seen Look at the bustle and confusion which,the village presents; the roads, and streets, andlanes, crowded with comers and goers all the daylong: look at the public-houses; the ordinary num¬ber in some places will not.do •• the publicans hiretheir neighbours’ houses, and employ waiters tosell their spirits; every window presents some sig¬nificant mark, to indicate what is going on within.Think of the bustle, the confusion, the noise, thatthis state of things must create ; not t » speak of thedrunkenness, the quarreling, and even fighting, thatsometimes ensue ; think on these things, notoriouslytitle, and say, can this be a religious ordinance, aCbri s'.ian institution'1 Is it not much mme like apopish carnival, than a gospel ordinance ? In fact,it ks undeniable, that the scenes of a country Sacra¬ment have furnished a late profane wit with mate¬rials sufficiently appropriate for his ‘ Holy Fair.’What a degrading, what a contemptible view, do15these scenes present to thinking men, of the holyinstitution of the Lord's Supper ! ! What mustsceptics, and infidel?, and scoffers of ail descriptions,think of that religion, of which they are supposedto be a part! I know, it will be said that theseabuses are no part of the ordinance of the Supper.I know they are not. Gut why, then, are theyassociat e€ with it} Why are they appended to it.Why is a svttem continued, calculated to p.oduceand perpetuate such abuses? Would the simpleobservance of the Supper produce such efftos, ifthese unscriptural appendages were given up Im*possible. While ih's system is continued, the.-.eabuses will follow' it; and all attempis to persuademen of the difference between these abuses, and thesystem that gives bhih to them, will prove vainand fruitless.In an overture of the Synod of Glasgow andAyr, dated Oct. 5, 17+8, we find the following re¬markable declaration, in exact unison with what hasbeen said above:—‘ 1 hat the manner in which thisholy ordinance -;nf the Supper) is adminisitnedamong us, greatly obstructs the more hequent ad¬ministration of it; and particularly, the number ofsermons on such occasions, and the many parishesthereby laid vacant upon the Lord’s day, are accom¬panied with several great inconveniences, if not also,too often, with scandalous profanations of that holy day.—That it would be for the interest and honour ofreligion, that some method were devised, wherebythese abuses might be avoided, and the Lord’s Sup¬per more frequently administered, agreeably to thevoid cf God, to the apostriic practice, and to thepractice of the primitive church,’*Bl»t. this system tends to the profanation of thel.ord’s Supper in another, and a still more serious* See Dialogues on the Lord’s Siipjer, p. 4s),—Note.16liphtj it becomes the grand means of prostituting{it to carnal, nr renewed men ■;The Lord’s Supper is intended for those only who tiare his disciples, who love the Lord Jesus, who.fedinterested in h;s death, and who therefore can re¬member that death with those grateful and piousfeelings that are suited to the extreme, pleasing toGod, and profitable to the soul All ohers, bethey outwardly s^ber or profane, moial or immoral,are without my r!ght to g, without any just viewsof it, without any advantage' from it, and .conse¬quently only prostitute and profane it. But it isnotorious, that multitudes who give nm the mostdistant evidence of conversion to God, will be foundseated at the communion table, on the Sac-ramentSabbath. Now, to this prostitution of this sacredordinance, the1 services greatly contribute, 1 hedesign and rtieantng of them, is to assist intendingcommunicants in a train of previous preparation,to fit them for this important service. Hence theannouncing of the Sacrament, some weeks before,become-s a sort of distant warning of the necessiiyot beginning preparation. But, on the prepara¬tion Sabbath, a number of duties and exercises,in the view of the approaching ordinance, are pre¬scribed ; which, from their immediate connexionwith it, are not understood to be necessary on or¬dinary occasions. Now, from what is ordinarilysaid on these occasions, people, even the mostcareless and irreligious, commonly infer two things—that going to the Lord’s table is an importantduty, a duty which it would be very criminal anddangerous to neglect, and which, being performed,will be attended with some special, though mysteri¬ous advantage, such as, eating the flesh, and drink¬ing the blood of Christ, See. ; and. that a regularattendance on the public services of the week, andsome attention to the personal exercises prescribed.17will prepare for the dvre performance of this neces*sary duty. With the idea thus impressed on theirminds, that the would-be holiness of a week willcompensate for the unrighteousness of a year, andsecure the favour and approbation of God, what isto be expected, but that multitudes, without faith,without repentance, without holiness, without loveto God, to his law, to his Son, or to his people,should, after a few formal prayers, and other pre¬scribed duties, during the Sacrament 'veek, be foundat the communion table, on the Sacrament Sabbath,in the expectation of clearing scores with theirMaker, who will as r.dturally, and as certainly, turnagain to their vices, as the dog to his vcmit, or thesow to the mil e !It is impossible not to see what a ruinous luretins must become to multitudes of precious souls,V'hat a sad and fearful prostitution of a sacred or¬dinance, and what a distorted view of the simpleand holy religion of Jesus, it must present to theworld. Whereas, let it be exhibited in its scripturalfrequency and simplicity, let it be divested of theparade of extra services that now mar its beauty,and obscure its meaning ; let people be taught thatit is not any course of prescribed preparation, butthe possession of a previous character, that giveslight to it, and benefit from it, and it will, by theblessing of God, go far to prevent these evils‘ Frequent and simple communion,’ says Dr.Mason, ‘will probably purge the-church of unwor¬thy members. Perhaps there could not be deviseda more effectual expedient for getting rid of them,than employing them in spiritual woik. Withabundance of formality, they may attend to the no¬torious externals of religion : and as a bridle to con¬science, and a set-off to character, they may haveno objection to the communion, if it be not too often.Once or twice a-year will do. But strip this pre-18«;ious ordinance of the additions that nurture legality,and flatter pride; let it be as plain as the Bible ;made it, and as often as a believer needs it; let jthere be nothing to render it impressive, but itssubject, or alluring, but its spirituality ; and markthe consequence. The former zealot will cool;Novelty, decency, example, may secure his com¬pliance for a while; but it will be strange if hisimpatience do not at last get the ascendancy.Without afteeiion to Jesus Christ,, he will tire ofhis Suppef. Without a principle of spiritual life,he will count spiritual worship intolerable; themore spiritual, the more intolerable; and the holycommunion, the most intolerable of all. His soulwill loathe the heavenly manna, and by degrees hewill drop off.'*—‘ Are there not many now,’ saysMr. Randal, * who bear the fatigue of waiting ona yearly Sacrament, for different reasons, who wouldtire of an habitual continuing in what they haveno relish tor, or a church tire of them ?’fThe late of Mr. Brown of Haddington, accounts;in the following rational manner, for the originaldeviation from the primitive frequency and sim¬plicity of the Lord’s Supper.—; When the churchbegan to share the smiles and support of the Em¬peror, and his court, multitudes, influenced by car¬nal motives, thronged into it, and they were easilyadmitted, though indeed mtfny of them were farfrom being visible saints. These carnal and courtChristians disliked being from week to week em¬ployed in self examination, and other preparatorywork, or living under (he impression of so frequentand fdlemn approaching to God- They also dis-liked the simplicity of this, as well as other gospelordinances, and we;e mightily fond that the Chris-Letters on Frequent C immunion. Letter 9,* Letter to a Mimttcr, &x.i9ian ■worship should be modelled as near the Paganand Jewish forms as'possible. The clergy, pos¬sessed with the same vitiated taste, and besidesbeing very solicitous tn procure themselves the fa¬vour of the great, transformed the Christian wor¬ship according to these patterns.’* To the samepurpose, speaks the late Dr. Erskine—‘ In tlie fourthcentury, defection from the primitive purity of thechurch, began more and mote to appear. Themost probable cause I can assign for this, is, thattill then the religion of Chiht being persecuted, fewprofessed it, who had not felt the power of it ontheir hearts. But soon after, Christianity becomingthe established religion of tl e empire, a greaternumber of hypocrites, tiom views of worldly inter¬est. intermingled themselves with the true disciples ofChrist; and in a century or two more, this little leavenleavened the whole lump ’—‘ Such nominal Chris¬tians could have no just sense of the use and benefitof the Lord’s Supper, and the obligations to frequentit. Having only the form of godliness, withoutthe power of it, it is no wonder that the frequentreturn of religious exercises should be uneasy anddisagreeable to them Their example would soonbe followed by lukewarm Christians, who had fallenf rom their first love ’fFrom the foregoing extracts, we see to whatthese respectable Presbyterians attribute the firstdeparture from the simplicity of Christian worship—to the introduction of crowds of unrenewed meninto fellowship w ith the churches ; and if similarcauses produce similar effects, wherever this prac¬tice is continued, all attempts at scriptural reforma¬tion will be defeated by these characters. W« neednot wonder that the Reformers, with all their in¬fluence, could not carry their reformation, cm this* Apology for Frequent Cofiimunior, p. H.Dissertation, fcc. Section 2,120head, to any thing like the Bible pattern, or to whatthey themselves saw to have been the primitivepractice: when we consider that multitudes embrac¬ed the reformed doctrines, who gave no evidenceof conversion to God, and that all who becameProtestants, were admitted to fellowship with theProtestant chore* .es Principal Baillie, of the Uni¬versity of Glasgow, one of the Commissioners fromScotland, to the Westminster Assembly, in one ofhis Letter?, says, that not one in forty of the mem¬bers of the best reformed churches, gave any evi¬dence of true grace and regeneration'! How is itpossible that such churches could be reduced to anything like scriptural order of discipline, or thatsuch fearful crowds of unconverted men could bebrought under the influence of the authority ofChrist, or of the love of his simple and holy insti-tutions ? And in proportion as this state of thingscontinues, in that proportion is reformation, in re¬gard to the Supper, or any other point of scripturalorder, unattainable 1 am persuaded that thereare now very few godly ministers, who have thoughtat all on this subject, who are not oonvinced in theirconsciences, that the Lord’s Snp?-;f was desimed,and continued for ages to be a weekly institutionof Use Christian dispensation ; and that, consequently,sacramental preaching days are not only unscrip-tural inventions of men ; but also the cause of muchdelusion, the source of much self-righteousness, andthe occasion of a dreadful prostitution of this sacredordinance.But then, as most churches are now composedand constituted, they are aware that any reforma¬tion, worthy of the name, is quite ont of the ques¬tion. Hence they endeavour to make the most andthe best of things as they are. Indeed, whenmen prove to a demonstration, that the Lord’sSupper was for ages a weekly institutioa with the21followers of Christ, with Wfhat grace can they insist,as Randal, and Erskir.e, and Brown, and others,have done, on a retormation that would only carryit to three or four times a year! There is some¬thing so incongruous in it, that thinking .nen ratherlet it alone altogether, than lay themselves open tothe charge of such inconsistency.On the whole, if saci amenta! preaching-days bein their origin modern, in their nature unscriptural,in their tendency injurious—if they have put theLord’s Supper oat of its place, and surroundedit with a spurious solemnity—if they have marredits native simplicity, and obscured its genuine mean¬ing—if they become the "grand means of alluringcarnal, unconverted men, t« prostitute this sacredinstitution, and to deceive anti ruin their own souls—if they give the world an unscripfural view ofChristian institutions, and become an efi'ectual bar¬rier to reformation on this head, (and Presbyterianshave often acknowledged, and deplored as much,)—if so, it is high time: they were laid aside j and itis high, time, coo, that Christians, and especiallyChristian ministers, were seriously inquiring,, howthey shall be able to answer to God, for supportingand countenancing a system, so unsciiptural in itsnature, and so hurtful to saints and sinners, in itstendency; arid that too, it may be in direct oppoti-tion to the convictions of their own minds! Toconclude let, the reader attend to -the followingqueries, by the late Mr Brown:—‘ Whether is itgrace or corruption that most aiTects to add humandevices to Gbc’s worship to make it more splendidthan Chrod ••>i> left it ? May not persons;be at realtygiVliltyj of yupb v by 'rddainnglnn ti e splendid pomp>3sfi/diHnrijcirdin»Ti0tMn'that'ednsvsi*Tin the variety ofdaysiisertmns, wad ndnisters. as by .unating *>» theVarvety^flf f antastic ceremonies nsed In‘tic: popishmas's ?. Ought we nct to beware of adding to Go I’s22ordinarces, as well as of taking from them ? IsGod content to barter with us on this point, bygiving up with frequent commanion, if we will an¬nex a few more days, sermons, ministers, and peopleto it, when seldom administered i Where does heeither make, or declare his acceptance of, this pro¬posal ?’*—The reader is requested to endeavour toanswer these queries, in his owa mind, as in thesight of God.• Apology, &c. p. 87.Advice io Youth,ALL in this country bear the name of Christians,and acknowledge the truth of the Bible; yet thereis reason to fear, that the revelation of God is ingeneral completely mistaken. Christianity commen- ’ded as containing an admirable system of morality,while the foundation of this marality is entirelvoverlooked. Love to God and men is universally'acknowledged to be a duty ; but men disobey God,and injure one another, from the strength of theirpassions, in the, indulgence cf which they endeavourto obtain happiness.The Bible lays the axe to the root of human cor¬ruption. It informs us, that so far as the presentlife is concerned, our doom, is fixed ; that, in conse¬quence of sin, sorrow, disappctictment and death areour lot in this world : and that we may as well ex¬pect to stop the sun in his course, Us to escape them.It also informs us, that God so loved the world as•w-G .V:23to give his only begotten Son, that whosoever t>e«lieveth in him should not perish, but have eternallife. To him we are directed as the only Saviourfrom sin, and sorrow, and death. We are assuredthat those who trust in him shall never come intocondemnation ; that through him God pardons themost guilty ; that all believers shall be raised fromthe dead to dwell with Jesus for ever. The know¬ledge of this salvation is the foundation of Christianmorality. The man who believes this, will no longerpursue happiness where he knows it to be unattain¬able. In the life and death of Jesus, he has learnedthe impossibility of escaping what is appointed forall; and now his hopes of happiness centre in beingraised from the dead, and sharing the blessings ofthe kingdom of Christ. This le.-.ds him to consider: himself a stranger and pilgrim here. He looks fori a city which hath foundations, whose builder and: maker is God. Here is a lesson which philosophy: could never teach. This, says an apostle, is theI victory which overaometh the world, even our faith,i 1 John v. 4., Reader, are you possessed of this faith ? Are youI waiting for the appearing ot the Son of God ? Doesj the love of Christ in giving himself to die for sinners,constrain you to live not to yourself but to God?I if so, happy are you Your trials will soon he over,i and you shall enter into the joy of your Lord. Buti ah ! if this be not the case ; if your mind be engrossedi with earthly "objects if the love of sin be unbrokeni in your heart, you have cause to tiemble That| JeoUs, who once died for sin on Calvary ; who came' ratek and lowly, and having salvation,, will shortly: come in the clouds of heaven 'with power and greatS gW 10 consume all who disregard his authority,"I and who preferred the enjoyment of the vanities ofi time and sense to the glorious prospt ct cf inheritingi his kingdom.24.Reject not this solemn warning, If hitherto youhave been careless and worldly minded, now lookto the blood of Christ which cleanseth from all sin.Search the scriptures, L'hey contain the words ofeternal life; and this life can only be enjoyed byfaith in the Son of GodYou. have perhaps often resolved not to give wayto your passions- You have reflected on the un¬satisfactory nature of earthly enjoyments, and deter¬mined to be their slave no longer but you havebroken these resolutions, and are still hurried for¬ward in pursuit of that which experience teachesyou to be unsatisfactory and vain. Hearken nowto Jesus. He invites you to true happiness. Hepromises you indeed neither riches nor honour inthis world. He requires you to take up your crossand follow him; patiently to endure, as he did, thesorrows of this life, under the animating assuranceof a glorious resurrection to eternal life.Reader, reject not the counsel of God againstyourself. To Jesus every knee shall bow. If nowyou submit to him, he will guide and support youwhile here, and afterwards receive you to glory. But,if you neglect his great salvation, if you now refuseto hearken to bis voice, the time is approaching when »it will arouse you from your grave, to receive fromhis lips that irreversible sentence which awaits allwho lend a deaf ear to the proclamation of mercy.With this solemn warning, I now take leave ofyou, appealing for the truth of the contents of this,paper to the unerring word of God, to which youat all times have access, and which shall judge youat the last day.FI X I S>