%u» \m scorsiTTi-TitfBYBE? 151 1.1! T i'.OODjiu (*j;tca « nunxirE er¥^ gnt&Eiry./ i• • -■  -t'r T'vmx&mL- cj, ■ICa■? ' •!CINDERELLA,OR, THELITTLE GLASS SLIPPER.—=o®IOleo<=*—rtnERE was once a very rich gentleman who|bst his wife; and having loved her exceod-iingly, he was very sorry when she died.Finding himself qditc unhappy for her loss,he resolved to marry a second time, think-(ng hy this means lie should be as happy as|)fclbre. Untiirtuiiately, however, the ladvhe chanced to fix upon was the proudest andJmost haughty woman ever known ; she washlways out of humour with every one; nobody||uld please her, and she returned the civil-Cities of those about her with the most affront-pig disdain. She had two daughters by aBonner husband, whom she brought up to beproud and idle: indeed, in temper and be¬haviour they perfectly resembled their mo¬ther; they did not love their books, andvould not learn to work; in short, they weredisliked by every body.The gentleman on his side too had alaughter, who, in sweetness of temper andcarriage, was the exact likeness of her own4mother, whose death he had so much lamented, and whose tender care of the little girhe was in hopes to see replaced by that of hinew bride.But scarcely was the marriage ceremoirover, before his wife began to show her reatemper; she could not bear the pretty littlgirl, because her sweet obliging mannermade those of her own daughters appear ithousand times the more odious and disagreeable.She therefore ordered her to live in thkitchen; and, if ever she brought any thin*into the parlour, always scolded her till shwas out of sight. She made her work witlthe servants, in washing the dishes, amrubbing the tables and chairs: it was heplace to clean madam’s chamber, and thaof the misses her daughters, which was a]inlaid, had beds of the newest fashion, anlooking-glasses so long and broad, that the]saw themselves from head to foot in themwhile the little creature herself was forced tsleep up in a sorry garret, upon a wreteheistraw bed, without curtains, or any thing t.make her comfortable.The poor child bore all this with the greatest patience, not daring to complain to helather, who, she feared, would only reprovher, for she saw that his wife governed hinentirely. When she had done all her worlfclie Ubed to bit in the chiiuney corner amongi;he cinders; so that in the house she wentpy the name of Cinderbreech : the youngest:>f the two sisters, however, being ratheritnore civil than the eldest, called her Cinder-idla. And Cinderella, dirty and ragged asidle was, as often happens in such cases, wasa thousand times prettier than her sisters,idrest out in all their splendour.' It happened that the kings son gave apall, to which he invited all the persons ofFashion in the country : our two misses werebf the number; for the king’s son did not(know how disagreeable they were ; but sup¬posed, as they were so much indulged, thatIthey were extremely amiable. He did notInvite Cinderella, for lie had never seen orheard of her.The two sisters began immediately to bevery busy in preparing for the happy day :nothing could exceed their joy; everymoment of their time was spent in fancyingsuch gowns, shoes, and head-dresses aswoidd set them off to the greatest advantage.All this was new vexation to poor Cinder¬ella, for it was she who ironed and plaitedher sisters’ muslins. They talked of nothingbut how they should be dressed. “ I,” saidthe eldest, “ will wear my scarlet velvet withFrench trimming.” “And I,” said theyoungest, “shall wear the same petticoat 16had made for the last ball: but then to malaamends for that, I shall put on my golimuslin train, and wear my diamonds in rrnhair; with these I must certainly look well/They sent several miles for the best hairdresser that was to be had, and all theiiornaments were bought at the most fashion¬able shops.On the morning of the ball they callerup Cinderella to consult with her about thendress, for they knew she had a great deal o:taste. Cinderella gave them the best advictdie coidd, and even offered to assist thenin adjustieg their head-dresses ; which wasexactly wnat they wanted, and they accord¬ingly accepted her proposals.While Cinderella was busily engaged indressing' her sisters, they said to her,“Should you not like, Cinderella, to go tothe ball?” “Ah!” replied Cinderella, “youare only laughing at me; it is not for suchas I am to think of going to balls.” “Youare in the right,” said they: “ folks mightlaugh indeed to see a Cinderbreech dancingin a ball-room.”Any other than Cinderella would havetried to make the haughty creatures look asugly as she could; but the sweet-temperedgirl, on the contrary, did every thing shecoidd think of to make them look well.The sisters had scarcely eaten any thingfur two days, so great was their joy as thehappy day drew near. More than a dozenlaces were broken in endeavouring to givethem a fine slender shape, and they werealways before the looking-glass.At length the nuch-wished-for momentarrived: the proud misses stepped into a beau¬tiful carriage, and followed ly servants inrich liveries, drove towards the palace.Cinderella followed them with her eyes asfar as she could; and when they were outof sight, she sat down in a corner and beganto cry.Her godmother, who saw her in tears,asked what ailed her. u I wish 1w-i-s-h—,” sobbed poor Cinderella withoutbeing able to say another word.The godmother who was a fairy, said toher, £< You wish to go to the ball, Cinderella;is not this the truth?” “Alas! yes,” re¬plied the poor child, sobbing still more thanbefore. “ Well, well, be a good girl,” saidthe godmother, “and you shall go.”She then led Cinderella to her bed¬chamber, and said to her, “Run into thegarden and bring me a pumpion.” (Cinder¬ella fiewlike lightning, and brought the finestshe coidd lay hold of. Her godmother scoop¬ed out the inside, leaving nothing but the1/ # O # Orind; she then struck it with her wand, andthe pumpion instantly became a fine coach8.gilded all over with gold. She next lookedinto her mousetrap, where she found sixmice all alive and brisk: she told Cinderellato lilt up the door of the trap very gently; andas the mice passed out, she touched them oneby one with her wand, and each immediatelybecame a beautiful horse of a fine dapplegrey' mouse-colour. “Here, my child,’said the godmother, {£ is a coach and horsestoo, as handsome as your sisters’: but whatshall we do for a postilion ?”“ I will run,” replied Cinderella, £ 1 andsee if there be not a rat in the rat-trap; i,1 find one, he will do very well for a pos¬tilion.”“Well thought of, my child!” said heigodmother; ££ make what haste you can.”Cinderella brought the rat-trap, which fiher great joy, contained three of the larges:rats ever seen. The fairy chose the omwhich had the longest beard, and touchinghim with her wand, he was instantly turnecinto a smart handsome postilion, with th*l|finest pair of whiskers imaginable.She next said to Cinderella, ££ Go agaii|jinto the garden, and you will find six lizjjards behind the watering-pot; bring tlie3;|hither.” This was no sooner done, than, witlna stroke from the fairy’s wand, they wenchanged into six footmen, who all immediately jumped up behind the coach in tliei9jlaced liveries, and stood side by side asIrleveriy as if they had been used to nothing(else the whole of their lives.The fairy then said to Cinderella, “Well,Toy dear, is not this such an equipage as voucould wish for to take you to the ball ? Areyou not delighted with it ?” “Y-e-s,” re¬plied Cinderella with hesitation ; “but must11 go hither in these filthy rags ?”Her godmother touched her with the wand,tand her rags instantly became the mos'| magnificent apparel, ornamented with themost costly jewels in the whole world. Tothese she added a beautiful pair of glass(slippers, and bade her set out for the; palace.The fairy, however, before she took leaveof Cinderella, strictly charged her on no(account whatever to stay at the ball after:the clock had struck twelve; telling her| that, should she stay but a single momentafter that time, her coach would again be¬come a pumpion, her horses mice, her foot¬men lizards, and her fine clothes be changedto filthy rags.Cinderella did not fail to promise all herf godmother desired of her; and, almost wildj with joy, drove away to the palace.As soon as she arrived, the king’s son,! who had been informed that a great princesswhom nobody knew, was come to the ball.10presented himself at the door of the carriage,helped her out, and conducted her to theball-room.Cinderella no sooner appeared than every*one was silent; both the dancing and the;music stopped, and every body was employedin gazing at the uncommon beauty of this;unknown stranger: nothing was heard hut:whispers of <£ How handsome she is!” Theking himself, old as he was, could not keep*his eyes from her, and continually repeatedto the queen, that it was a. long time sincehe had seen so lovely a creature. The ladies:endeavoured to fmd out how her clothes were,made, that they might get some of the samepattern for themselves by the next day,should they he lucky enough to meet withsuch handsome materials, and such goodwork-people to make them.The king’s son conducted her to the most,honourable seat, and soon after took her outto dance with him. She both moved anddanced so gracefully, that every one admiredher still more than before, and she watythought the most beautiful and accomplished ■lady ever beheld.After some time a delicious collation wasserved up: but the young prince was j obusily employed in looking at her, that hedid not eat a morsel.Cinderella seated herself near1 her sisters,11paid them a thousand attentions, and otfemlthem a part of the oranges and sweatmeatswith which the prince had presented her;while they on their part were quite astonish¬ed at these civilities from a lady whom theydid not know.As they were conversing together, Cin¬derella heard the clock strike eleven and threequarters: she rose from her seat, curtsiedto the company, and hastened away as fastas she could.As soon as she got home she flew to hergodmother, and, after thanking her a thou¬sand times, told her she would give the w orldto be able to go again to the ball the next.day, f ir the king’s son had entreated her tobe there.I While she was telling her godmotherevery thing that had happened to her at theball, the two sisters knocked a loud rat-tat-:tat at the door, which Cinderella opened.11 How late you have staid!” said she,vawning, rubbing her eyes, and stretchingherself as if just awraked out of her sleep,Ithough she had in truth felt no desire tosleep since they left her.u If you had been at the ball,” said oneof the sisters, <£ let me tell you, you wouldnot have been sleepy: there came thither■ the handsomest, yes, the very handsomest'princess ever beheld ! She apid us a thousand12Attentions, and made »is take a part of th(•ranges and sweatmeats the prince had giveIter.”Cinderella could scarcely contain herselfor joy: she asked her sisters the name c-this princess: to which they replied, thenobody had been able to discover who shwas; that the king’s son was extremelgrieved on that account, and had ofl’eredlarge reward to any person who could finout where she came from.Cinderella smiled, and said, il How veibeautiful she must be ! How fortunate ycare! Ah, could I but see her for a singiimoment! Dear Miss Charlote, lend me ohllthe yellow gown you wear every day,let me go and see her.”“ Oh! yes, I warant. you; lend mlclothes to a Cinderbreech! Do you realllsuppose me such a fool? No, no; prajMiss Forward, mind your proper busineand leave dress and balls to your betters.” 'Cinderella expected some such answe* Iand was by no means sorry, for she woolhave been sadly at a loss what to do if he 4sister had lent her the clothes that she aske >of her.The next day the two sisters again appearej iat the ball, and so did Cinderella, but dressedmuch more magnificently than the night. Dfore. The kingVson was continually by lui13isiiie, and said tlie most obliging, things toher imaginable.The charming young creature was far(from being tired of all the agreeable thingsIshe met with : on the contrary, she was soidelighted with them, that she entirely for-!got the charge her godmother had givenI her.> Cinderella at last heard the striking of adock, and counted one, two, three, on tillshe came to twelve, though she had thought(that it could be but eleven at most. .Shetgot up aud flew as nimbly as a deer out of’the hall-room.V The prince tried to overtake her ; butiCinderella’s fright made her run the faster.: However, in her great hurry, she dropped'one of the little glass slippers from her/foot, which the prince stooped down and. picked up, and took the greatest care of it'possible.Cinderella got home tired and out ofmreath, in her dirty old clothes, withouteither coach or footman, and having nothingleft of her magnificence but the fellow of the!glass slipper which she had dropped.In the meanwhile, the prince had enquired' of all his guards at the palace gates, if they'had not seen a magnificent princess pass out,and which way she went? The guards re¬plied, that no princess had passed the gates ;14and that they had not seen a creatine huma little ragged girl, who looked more likea beggar than a princess.When the two sisters returned from theball, Cinderella asked them if they had beeras much amused as the night before, and ithe beautiful princess had been there ? The}told her that she had; but that as soon a:the clock struck twelve she hurried awayfrom the ball-room, and in the great hashshe made, had dropped one of her glasslippers, which was the prettiest shape thacould be; that the king’s son had picked iup, and had done nothing but looked at it althe rest of the evening; and that every bod’believed he was violently in love with thhandsome lady to whom it belonged.This was very true; for a few days afterthe prince had it proclaimed by sound atrumpet, that he would marry the lady whos'foot should exactly fit the slipper he ha*found.Accordingdy the prince’s messengers toolthe slipper, and carried it first to all thprincesses ; then to the duchesses : in short'to all the ladies of the "court,—but withousuccess.They then brought it to the two sisterswho each tried all she could to squeeze hefoot into the slipper, but saw at last that thiwas quite impossible.15Cinderella, who was looking1 at them allthe while, and knew her slipper, could nothelp smiling, and ventured to say, u Pray,sir, let me try to get on the slipper.”' Her sisters burst out a laughing in therudest manner possible:—“Very likely,truly,” said one of them, “that such aclumsy foot as your’s should fit the slipper ofa beautiful princess.”The gentleman, however, who broughtthe slipper, turned round, looked at Cinder¬ella, and observing that she was very hand¬some, said, that as he was ordered by theprince to try it on every one till it fitted, itjwas but just that Cinderella should have her[turn.Saying this, he made her sit down; andputting the slipper to her foot, it instantlyslipped in, and he saw that it fitted her likewax.The two sisters were amazed to see thattiie slipper fitted Cinderella : but how muchgreater was their astonishment, when shedrew out of her pocket the other slipper anilput it on ! , 3Just at this moment the fairy entered theroom, and touching Cinderella’s clothes withher wand, made her all at once appear morejmagnificently dressed than they had seen herbefore.The two sisters immediately perceived16that she was the beautiful princess they hadseen at the ball. They threw themselves ather feet, and asked her forgiveness for theill treatment she had received from them.Cinderella helped them to rise, and, tenderlyembracing them, said that she forgave themwith all her heart, and begged them to be¬stow upon her their affection.Cinderella was then conducted, drest asshe was, to the young prince, who findingher more beautiful than ever, instantlydesired her to accept of his hand.The marriage ceremony took place in afew days; and Cinderella, who was as ami¬able as she was handsome, gave her sistersmagnificent apartments in the palace, anda short time after married them to two greatlords of the court: *r-\ ■ f ' - V - • -I K.l' i.:THE ENDTHEBABES IN THE WOOD.A great many years ago, there lived inthe county of Norfolk a gentleman and hislady. The gentleman was brave, generous,and honourable; and the lady gentle, beau¬tiful, and virtuous: they were beloved by allwho knew them, and were blessed with twochildren, a boy and a girl. The boy wasonly about three years old, and the girl not•juite two, when the gentleman was seizedwith a dangerous malady, and the lady, inattending her beloved husband, caught thecontagion. Notwithstanding every medicalassistance their disorder daily increased, andas they expected to be soon snatched awayfrom their little babes, they sent for thegentleman’s brother, and gave the darlingsinto his care.“Ah! brother,” said the dying man,4 ‘ you see 1 have but a short time to live;yet neither death nor pain can pierce myheart with half so much anguish as what Ifeel at the thought of that these dear babeswill do without a parent’s care. Brotherthey will have none but you to be kind tothem, to see them clothed and fed, and toteach them to be good.”IS” Dear, dear brother,” said the dyinglady, “ you must be father, mother, amuncle too, to these dear innocent lambs. Fir:let William be taught to read; and then h|should be told how good his father wasAnd little Jane, — Oh! brother, it wringmy heart to talk of her; think of the gentleusage she will need, and take her fondly oayour knee, brother, and she and William toewill pay your care with love. ”u How does it grieve my heart to see you,my dear relatives, in this mournful con¬dition ! replied the uncle. “But be connforted, there may yet he hopes of your well¬doing : but should we have the misfortuneto lose you, 1 will do all you can desire fojjyour darling children. In me they shalfind father, mother, and uncle; but, deabrother, you have said nothing of yourwealth.” “ H-e-r-e, h-e-r-e, brother, repliedhe, is my will, in which 1 have provided fcimy dear babes.”The gentleman and his lady then kissedtheir children, and a short time after the)both died.The uncle, after sheding a few tears,opened the will, in which he found, that tcWilliam was bequeathed three hundredpounds a-year, when he became of ag'e, amto little Jane five hundred pounds in gold orher marriage dav. But if the children!(should chance to die before coming* of age,jthen all their wealth was to be enjoyed bytheir uncle. The will of the unfortunategentleman next desired, that he and his be¬loved wife should be buried side by side inthe same grave.The two little innocents were now takento the house of their uncle, who, for someirne, recollecting what their parents said sosorrowfully upon their death-bed, behaved tohern with great kindness. But when herad kept them about a twelvemonth, he bydegrees lorgot to think both how theirrarents looked when they gave their childrento his care, and the promises he made to be(their father, mother, and uncle, all in one.After a little more time had passed, theuncle could not help thinking that he wishedthe little boy and girl would die, tor he shouldthen have all their wealth for himself; andwhen he had begun to think this, he went)n till he could think scarcely of anyhing else; and at last, says he to himself,lit will not be very dilficidt for me to killthem, so as nobody knows any thing of thematter, and then their gold is mine.When the barbarous uncle had onceDrought his mind to kill the helpless littlecreatures, he was not long in finding a wayto execute his cruel purpose. He hired twopturdy ruffians, who had already killed many720travellers in a dark thick wood, at some disitance, and then robbed them of their inonejThese two wicked creatures agreed, forlarge reward, to do the blackest deed tha:ever yet was heard of; and the uncle begaijto prepare every thing accordingly.He told an artful story to his wife, cwhat good it would beto put the childre,forward in their learning ; how he had a rtlation in London who would take the greatest care of them. He then said to the him ['cent children, “Should you not like, m ;pretty ones, to see the famous town iLondon, where you, William, can buy a fill iwooden horse to ride upon all day long, andwhip to make him gallop, and a fine sworto wear by your side ? And you, Jane, shahave pretty dolls, and pretty pincushion; iand a nice gilded coach shall be got to tabyou there.”“ Oh, yes, I willWilliam, “ Oh, yes, Iwigo, uncle,” saill go, uncle,” sailJane; and the uncle, with a heart of stonusoon got them ready for their journey.The unsuspecting little creatures were jrfew days after putintoafinecoach, and witthem the two inhuman butchers, who we: jsoon to end their joyful prattle, and tm.their smiles to tears. One of them servt Ias coachman, and the other sat between littWilliam and little Jane.21[ When they liad reached the entrance to thelark thick wood, the two ruffians took themjut of the coach, telling them they mightnow walk a little way, and gather flowers;md, while the children were skipping aboutlike lambs, the ruffians turned their bads >on them, and began to consult about whatthey had to do.) “In good truth,” says the one who had( been sitting all the way between the children,now I have seen their cherub faces, and/heard then- pretty speech, I have no heartto do the bloody deed; let us fling away theugly knife, and send the children back totheir uncle.” u That I will not,” says theother; “what boots their pretty speech tous? And who will pay us for being sochicken-hearted ?”At last the ruffians fell into so great a| passion about butchreing the innocent littlel creatures, that he who wished to spare theirlives, suddenly opened the great knife hehad brought to kill them, and stabbed theother to the heart, so that he fell downdead.The one who had killed him was nowgreatly at a loss what to do with the child -ren, for he wanted to get away as fast as hecould, for fear of being found in the wood.He was not, however, long in determiningthat he must leave them in the wood, to thechance ot“ some traveller passing by. “ Loo®ye, my pretty ones,” said lie, “you musj!each take hold and come along with me.TjThe poor children each took a hand, anJ'went on, the tears bursting from their eyes!and their little limbs trembling with fear.Thus did he lead them about two mile,further on in the wood, and then told thento wait there till he came back with sonncakes.William took his sister Jane oy the hand*and they wandered fearfully up and down thewood. 44 Will the strange man come withsome cakes, Billy?” says Jane,44 Presently,dear Jane,” says William. And soon ag'ain,441 wish I had some cakes, Billy,” saidfishe; and it would have melted a heart of stoneto have, seen how sorrowfully they looked.After waiting very long, they tried tosatisfy their hunger with black-berries; butthey soon devoured all that wei’e within theirreach ; and night coming on, William, whohad tried all he could to comfort his littlesister, now wanted comfort himself; so whenJane said once more, 44 How' hungry I am,Billy, I b-e-l-i-e-v-e I cannot help crying,”—William hurst out crying too ; and downthey lay upon the cold earth, and puttingtheir arms round each other’s neck, therethey starved, and there they died.Thus were these pretty little innocentsimrdered; and as no one knew of their death.|;o no one sought to give them burial.The wicked uncle, supposing they hadj>een killed as he desired, told all who askedlifter them an artful tale of their having diedIn London of the small pox; and accordinglylook possession openly of their fortune,j] I3ut all this did him very little service, forjjoou after his wife died; and being very un-iiappy, and always thinking too that he saw|lie bleeding innocents before his eyes, heleglected all his business; so that, instead oftrowing richer, he every day grew poorer.His two sons, also, who had embarked for aforeign land, were both drowned at sea, andhe became completely miserable.When things had gone on in this manneror years, the ruffian who took pity on thephildren, committed another robbery in thewood, and being pursued by some men, he|tvas laid hold of, and brought to prison, andsoon after was tried at the assizes, and foundguilty—so that he was condemned to beFlanged for the crime.As soon as he found what his unhappy endmust be, he sent for the keeper of the prison,and confessed to him all the crimes he hadbeen guilty of in bis whole life, and thusdeclared the story of the pretty innocents;telling him at the same time, in what partof the wood he had left them to starve.24The news of the discovery he had inadelsoon reached the uncle’s ears; who beingsalready broken-hearted lor misfortunes tliatiihad befallen him, and unable to bear the loa4of public shame that could not but awaifihim, lay down upon his bed and died thafivery day.No sooner were the tidings of the fate oithe two children made public, than properpersons were sent to search the wood; when,after many fruitless endeavours, the prettybabes were at length found stretched in eachother’s arms, with William’s arm round theineck of Jane, his face turned close toher’s,and his frock pulled over her body. Theywere covered all over with leaves, which inall that time never withered; and on a bushnear this cold grave a Robin-Redbreastwatched and chirped: so that manv gentlehearts still think that pretty bird did bringthe leaves which made their gra