TO WHICH ARE AEhe MAID’S Complaint for JOCKEY,appy LIZZY, blooming M AIhe LASS of PRIMROdE.HILL.he UNFORTUNATE SWAIN.HE WAKES, SABINA WAKES,GLASGOW,.jHfu hy J, & J«f. Robetifon, Saltojarkct; i?oi«( 2 )T HE SHADY GROVE:OR* THEDISTRESSED LOVER.0 W N by yon fhady grove,_ One day I chancM lo rove.Where the fieWs and the meadows look gayI fpyM a lovely maidShe has my heart betray’d.And fee's caus'd rie a while for to ftav.DHer cheeks they’re like the role.Her eyes are black as floes,&?er fkin is far whiter than £boW,She is a lovely maid.She has my hear: betray'd,,4cd more ot her heart I wilt knew*f faid my own fweethearr.My jewel that thou art,I hare fet my afec-^bon on tbeivThou tet r. / heart ou lire^It’s all that I ddive,true love ia confeancy to be.It is for you alone,That here I %h ani moan,For true love will never decay.Sweetheart you know my mind,I hope you will p-rove, kind.> Though my dwelling lies far awiy.There is fame of your friends, -They think I ha.?e no means,Lhey hite me becaufe I sm poor.If l had great ftore of coia.All your friends would me join,ey would make up all matters therefore;Like David and his Clan,B;tnifh*d from his native land,ie Lazarus I am hated too>Which caafes me to weep,Every night when I Ihouid fleopt'my darling dill thinking on yen,wiiiffraMT •■xTittr.111 <in ■mtiTOiig-- <THE MAID’S COMPLAINT FOR JOCKEY.O '/ E did fird my thoughts employ,-4 returning day (till made me blclt,ch happy boor came wing'd with joy,each night was crown'd with balmy reft,'u now, alas! no longer gay,I rife to bail the ch earful light,it and ugh the live long dayand pafs in tears the ileeplefsme, lovely Jockey, hitter hafte,furc thou baft long perceiv’d my mind,ear my words 1 vainly waftefor thou art cruel and unkind ;• if fome maid of happier fatemore favour'd lives, more lov’d than I,a! free me from this anxious ftate,pronounce my f are and let me die.HAPPY L1ZZT, BLOOMING MAID, jt* /■' • >n•^I^HrkeJiappy hloooiing maid, IBy no Hire src^ of life betray'd,BlefVd trranr of the rural fceno.Whofe joys unnvixM vvidi pining-care,nV hicb. prey upoa the modeft fair, ."When er'oiBg comes, wiilrsnlefs f«i!e#.X>css all her ple'aCug toils beguileWhh tripping o'er the eirasneU’d green, JClsridRa fair, in jewels dreis’d. |The pride of theatres is confess'd.Still (bines with irreliflleiV mein : ,lb o’ mtificj a£hons, words confpire,'> o v/ake her loul to fob dr5re ;Dciigtit like this will quickly cloy,And l.izzy lake mote perfeil joy,ia tripping o'er the enameij’d green, f'■When iihdatnira, in tnc dance,la (prighdy^air does iwi+tly prance, -vmi graceful «*oye3 like beauty's queenfThro’ crowds of Beaux admiring gaze,Ncr ftckhiing Prudes refufe, her pfaife,(The batter'd Bells col half io blefs’d,And iazzy of more Joy poPefsM,In tnppiog e'er the euamsird green.When Coquerilla Cards invite,: . v ^ \&nd banifh'd far corroding fpieen ?Though chaise, indulgent to her will,Conveys, each circling Deal* Spadiile ;The facets of gain are. lefs re-finhi.And fofrer traafpoft*: footh the mind, -Of Lizzy, wheuthe tripsth’enaraeiS’dgreen,*Hail biifsfu! life, w! !t Lizty leads!’Midft bubbling /prings and painted meads, ■jud emblem of toe golden mein :A life wifU failed virtue grac’d,Whofe ebbing moments fweetiy wade ;Made doubly joyous, chcarfnl, gay.When Lizzy crowns the indulgent day.With tripping o’er the enaiueU’d green.The MAID of PRIMROSE-HILL^'dpWAS under Pt imrofi-hill there liv’d,■2- a fweet and pretty maid.Not Vents could give more delight,when you her charms farvey’d $-For the lilies Rur, and the rofcs' there,they did combine txV. d both entwine, -To form a beauty rare.This fair maid many fuitors had,but treated them with fcora.Till W tSliam who could play and dauce,came piping o’er the lawn *He fung fo fweet, was drefs’d fo neat,»that maidens fair, they,did. declare*Their love f?r William great..( 6 .~)Sweet maid of Primrofe-hi!], he cry’d,I come a wooing here,Then do not you ir.y love tejeft,nor treat me too feverc;For rcy hrat't fo true is fix’d on you,PH couftant be to only ihce.Thou flower of rofy hue.The maid the gave her head a-tofs,replyM with feonifal air,I Wonder that you can to ir.e.your {‘ruitlefs love declare ;For fuiicrr. great, in laud eftite.have offer'd me their bride yo be,So you do come too late.Then William hung bis head with grtef,and, faid. Sweet girl adieu.I’ll quit ycur charms for wars alarms,and glory i’ll purfue ;For love ihail yield to Mars the field,the fife and drum, invite to come,•PH poife the fpear and ihidd.Then with a finile &e cnlPd aim back,and faid, Dear William flay,I did but jeft to try your love,fo go not now awayThen with a kif: he feal’d, his bins,{he did agree his bride ao be.,And earn’d the happy dayThen to the church he went with fweet con*-the bells rang all yvjihjoyj (tear,, - (7^Tbeir han^s Were join'd in Hymen's bands,tneir bbfs will never ciov ;For ihey love all dav, at ni^lu ' y and play,who'll happy be. as ho and ihe.For.their lives are always May.‘ The UNFORi UNAl> S VAIH.1 V O VV K in a meadow frefh and gay,i J! Fluj king a flow’r the other day ,Plucking a ilow’r bo h red aiid blue,1 Hide thought wiiaa Lve could do.Where love is planted there it grows.It buds and bioffoms like any rofr.And has fo fweei and a pleafant fmell.No ilow’r on earth can it excelMuft l be bound and Hie be free ?Hull i love ore that loves rot rae ?Why fhould 1 aft bach a childiih part.To Jove a girl that will break my heart ?There's thoufanb-i thou lands in a room.My true love carries the highdl blooai jSurely (be is feme chofen one,\ will have her, or l will have none.I fpy’ J a drip failing on-the fea,I.adfen as deep as ih£ could be,Bm cor fo tkcp as in love 1 am,i care not whether 1 fink or (wim,? Y 8 )•i itt my DacK agamft an oak,I ibtughtst had bc^n a trufly tree,Bnt firft it bow’cKancl then it broke,And fo did my fa He iove to me.I put my hand into the bnih,Thinking the fwecteft rofe to find,I prick’d my finger to the bone.And left the Tweeted rofe behiad.If rofes are fuch pr‘n kiy flowers,They 're to be gather’d while they aye green,And he that loves an unkind lover,I’m fare he firives againtl the ftyeam.When my love is dead and at her red,rn think ou her whom l love bed.To wrap her up in the line a firoug.And think on her when Ihe*s dead & gone.* yga*} -SX- ~g<gSUE WAKES, SABINA WAKES,SE E, fee, fhe wakes, Sabina wakes,and now7 the fun begins to rife;I.efs glorious is the mora that breaks;from-his bright beams,'than her fair eyes.‘With light united, day they give ;but different fates ere night fulfil:How man? by his warmth will live!how many will her coldaefs kill,•   -WSMjWSpsIftptt. -G I. A S G O . W,P/inted by J, c< M. Rcbertfon, fialfmarkct, jSoa*, 1