Grinning made Easy;OR,FunraiY dick’sUNRIVALLED COLLECTIONOFCURIOUS,COMICAL,ODD,DROLLHUMOROUS,WITTY,WHIMSICAL,laughable,AND ECCENTRICJESTS, JOKES, BULLS, EPIGRAMS &cWith many other descriptions ofWIT & JUtOMOnt.printed for the booksellers.Grlimfiig made Easy.Mr. Serjeant Gardner, beino- lame of oneleg, and pleading before the late Judge For-tescue, who had little or no nose, the judgetold him, he was afraid he had but a lamecause of it. Oh! my lord, said the serjeanthave but a little patience, and I’ll warrant Iprove every thing as plain as the nose onyour face!Hume the historian, passing one day bythe back of Edinburgh Castle, where theground is very swampy, and the foot pathnarrow, inadvertently tumbled into the bog,where he stuck, not being able to extricatehimself. A washer-woman happening to passat the time, looked at him, and was travel¬ling on, when he shouted after her to lendhim her assistance. Na, na, (replied thewoman) you are Hume the Deist. Well,well, no matter, replied he—you know, goodwoman, your Christian charity commandsyou to do good even to your enemies. Nn,3I winna, saitl she, unless you will first repeatthe Creed and the Lord’s Prayer, Havingno alternative, he was forced to accede tothe pious woman’s terms.Two English gentlemen, some time ago,visited the field of Bannockburn, so celebrat¬ed for the total defeat of the English army,by Robert the Bruce, with an army of Scot¬tish heroes, not one fourth their number. Asensibleconntryman pointed outthe positionsof both armies, the stone where the Bruce’sS standard was fixed during the battle, &c. —! Highly satisfied with his attention, the gen-l tlemen, on leaving him, pressed his accept-« ance of' a crown-piece,—Na, na, said the! honest man, returning the money, keep your;i crown-piece—the English have paid dear:i enough already for seeing the field of Ban-r| nockbum.Judge Toler, afterwards Lord Norbury,r whose severity was at one time proverbial,was at a public dinner with Curran the cel-i ebrated Irish lawyer. Toler observing Cur¬ran carving a piece of corned beef, told him,if it was hung beef he would try it. If youtry it, my Lord, replied Curran, I am sureit will be hung.4A gentleman coming into a coffee-roomone stormy night, said. He never saw sucha Vi ind in his life. Saw a wind, says a friend,I never heard of such a thing- as seeing awind; pray, what was it like? Like an-swered the Gentleman, like to have blownmy hat off.A young lady going into a barrack-roomat f ort George, saw an officer toasting a sliceof bread on the point of his sword. Onwhich she exclaimed, 1 think, Sir, you havegot the staff of life on the point of death.One day, Socrates, having for a longtime endured his wife’s brawling, went outof his house, and sat down before the door,to rid himself of her impertinence. The wo¬man, enraged to find all lier scolding unableto disturb his tranquillity, flung the contentsof a chamber-pot on his head. Those thathappened to see it, laughed heartily at poorSocrates ; but this philosopher observed,smiling, “I thought, indeed, after so muchthunder we should have rain.”A clergyman chose for his text the fol¬lowing words: “ Which of you will go upwith me to Ilamoth-Giiead?” Then pausing,he again and again repeated the words, when5a gallant tar started from his seat, and look¬ing round him with an eye full of indigna¬tion, he exclaimed, Will none of you go upwith the worthy gentleman ; Then, d—-nme, 1 will go myself.An old beggar, pretending to be dumb,was thrown off his guard by the question,How many years have you been dumb; andanswered, Five years last June, please yourhonour.A countryman sowing his ground, twosmart fellows riding by, one of them calledto him with an insolent air, Well, honestfellow, 'tis your business to sow, but wereap the fruits of your labour. To whichthe countryman replied, 'Tis very likely youmay, for 1 am sowing hemp.One told another, who did not use tobe very well clothed, that his new coat wastoo short for him : That’s true, answered hebur it will be long enough before I getanother.A proud parson and his man, ridingover a common, saw a shepherd tending hisflock, in a new coat ? The parson asked, in; a haughty tone, who gave him that cort?The same people, (said the shepherd) that6clothe you-—the parish. The parson nettleda little, rode on murmuring a considerableway, and sent his man back to ask the shep¬herd, if he would come and live with him,for he wanted a fool. The man went to theshepherd accordingly, and delivered his mas¬ter’s message, concluding that his masterreally wanted a fool. Are you going awaythen? said the shepherd. No, answered theother. Then you may tell yonr master, re¬plied the shepherd, that his living won’tmaintain three of us.An arch prisoner, who had an unfa¬vourable countenance, being brought to thebar to be tried for horse-stealing, the judgeimmediately cried, Oh, here is a noted vil¬lain, I am sure! Why, Sir, I can see therogue in your face. Ah, my Lord, says thefellow, I wonder at that: 1 did not knowmy face was a looking-glass till now.Mr Hare, formerly the envoy of Hol¬land, had apartments in the same house withMr Fox; and, like his friend Charles, hadfrequent dealings with the monied Israelites.One morning, as he was looking out of hiswindow, he observed several of the tribe as-7sembled at the door for admittance. Pray,gentlemen, says he, are you Fox hunting-,or ifare hunting- this morning ?An Irish officer had the misfortune tohe dreadfully wounded at Waterloo. Ashe lay on the ground, an unfortunate sol¬dier, who was near him, and was also se¬verely wounded, made a terrible howling,when the officer exclaimed, D—n your eyes,what do you make such a noise for ? Do youthink there is nobody killed but yourself?When Mr. Horne Tooke was calledbefore the commissioners to give an accountof the particulars of his income; having an¬swered a question which was asked, one ofthe wise men said, peevishly, that he did notunderstand his answer—Then, said Tooke,as you have not half the understanding ofanother man, you ought at leastto have dou¬ble the patience.When the Scotch Court of Justiciarypassed sentence offourteen years’banishmenton Mr Muir, some persons in the gallerybegan to hiss. The Lord Justice Clerkturned round in a great fury, and ordered themacer, who stood behind his chair, to takethe persons that were hissing into custody8The macer, with great coolness, answered,My 1 iOrd, they are all hissing.Sir Boyle Roach, in one of the debateson the question of the Union, made a speechin favour of it, which he concluded by say--ing, that it would change the barren hills■into fruitful vallies.A man walking along after a woman,whose elegant shape excited his admiration,was not a little disappointed when he got upwith her and saw her ordinary face—If, Ma¬dam, said he, you were as handsome beforeas you are behind, I would kiss you. Youmay, replied the lady, kiss where you thinkI am handsomest.When Buchanan was tutor to James I.he found it necessary, one day, to give hismost sacied Majesty a flogging. A lady ofthe court, being in the next room, and over¬hearing what passed, ran in, and catchingthe young king in her arms, asked Buchananhow he could lift his hand against the Lord’sanointed ; to which he replied, with greatcoolness, Madam, I have whipped his arse,you may kiss it if you please./41phpnso, King of Arragon, to whoma Jew wished to sell a picture of our Saviour(9for five hundred ducats, said, “ You aremuch more unconscionable than your an¬cestors, who sold the original for thirtypieces/'A man and his wife, as a proof oftheir fondness for each other, made a mutualvow, that, on either of their deaths, the sur¬vivor should remain in a state of celibacy.The husband having died, the widow kepther vow, religiously, for about a twelve-month. At the end of this period, however,it she began to repent of it, and being- a Ca-:f tholic, she applied to the priests, to knowI whether she could not be released from it.This having, as might be expected, been ne¬gatived, the good woman thought of appeal¬ing to a higher power, and accordingly shedaily paid her devotions to an image of the! Virgin, who she hoped would, by some sign,sanction her second marriage. On one ofthose occasions, when, as usual, she lervent-!ly asked the Virgin whether she might notlawfully marry a second time, a wag, whohad concealed himself under the image, an¬swered, No !■—()n which the devotee imme¬diately replied, Hold your tongue, you bat?tard; I am speaking to your mother.10The Captain of one of the British fri¬gates, a man of undaunted bravery, had anatural antipathy to a cat. A sailor, whofrom misconduct had been ordered a flog¬ging, saved his back by presenting to hisCaptain the following petition :By your Honour’s command,A culprit I stand—An example to all the ship’s crew ;I am pinion’d and stript,And condemn’d to be whipt;And, if i am flogg’d ’tis my due !A cat, I am told,In abhorrence you hold jYour Honour’s aversion is mine!If a cat with one tailMakes your stout heart to fail,O, save me from one that has nine !Two boys, belonging to the chaplainsof two different men of war, entertainingeach other with an account of their respec¬tive manners of living—How often, Jack,says the one, do you go to prayers ? Why,answered Jack, we pray when we are afraidof a storm, or going to fight! Aye, quoththe other, there is some sense in that; but mymaster makes us go to prayers when there is11no more occasion for it than for my jumpingoverboard.A man having been capitally convictedat the Old Bailey, was, as usual, asked whathe had to say why judgement of death shouldnot pass against him? .Say! replied he, whyI think the joke has been carried far enonghalready, and the less that is said about it thebelter—If you please, Sir, we’ll drop thesubject.Advertisement from a London Paper —Wanted for a wine-merchant’s house in thecity, as a porter, an athletic man, of a seri¬ous countenance, a good character, and ofthe Protestant religion; must attend prayerstwice a day, and divine worship four timeson Sunday; be able to bear confinement,have the fear of God before his eyes, and bemaster for two hundred weight. Wagesfourteen shillings a week, and find himself.A man seeing in the street an old wo¬man who drove some asses, said, Adieu,mother of asses, ^fdieu, adieu, my son, an¬swered she.A Quaker was examined before theBoard of Excise, respecting certain duties ;the Commissioners thinking themselves dis-12respectfully treated by his thee-and-thouing,one of them with a stern countenance, ask¬ed him-—Pray, Sir, do you know for whatwe sit here? Yea, replied Nathan, 1 do—some of you for a thousand, and others forseventeen hundred and fifty pounds a year.Comparisons of Drunkenness — A man issaid to be as drunk as an owl, when he can¬not see^—as drunk as a sow, when he wal¬lows in the dirt—as drunk as a beggar, whenhe is very impudent—as drunk as the devil,when he is inclined to mischief, and—:asdrunk as a Lord, when he is every thingthat is bad.Walking Stewart, having ^-iven anaccount of his being cast away on an un¬known coast, thus expresseshimself: “Afterwalking a considerable way up the country,we saw, to onr inexpressible satisfaction, aman hanging on a gibbet. This delight af¬forded us by this cheering sight is inconceiv¬able, for it convinced us that we were in acivilized country!”When the Earl of Clancartie was Cap¬tain of a man of war, he lost his Chaplain.The First Lieutenant, a Scotchman, an¬nounced his death to his Lordship, adding,13ihe was sorry to inform him that the chaplaindied a Roman Catholic. Well, so muchthe better, said his Lordship. Oot awa myLord, how can you say so of a Breetish Cler¬gyman? Why, replied his Lordship, becausel believe I am the first Captain that evercould boast of a Chaplain who had any re¬ligion at all. : : i4n attorney being employed to draw|the Testament of a rich man, was requestedto word it in such a mawner, that no roommight be left for contestation among hisilllheirs. That, quoth the man of law, is im-ipossible. Can I go beyondour Saviour whoseTestament has been a perpetual source of^contest for these eighteen hundred years?The late learned Lord Karnes, oneday, after coming out of the Court of Edin¬burgh, went to make water at a place wherelithe centinel on duty assumes apower of levy-ning a fine for such transgression. My Lordaid the soldier, you are fined. For what?'For pissing at thisplace. Howmuch? Three-ence, my Lord. There is six-pcnce forou, then, Sir; and remember you owe mepiss.MrOgilvy, a Scottish Clergyman, at14Lunan, in Forfarshire, had a great deal ofeccentricity in his character and manner.—One Sunday when he was in the middle ofhis sermon, an old woman, who kept an ale¬house in the parish, fell asleep. Her neigh¬bour jogged her, in order to awaken her.The Minister seeing this, said, 7’11 wakenher fast enough; and immediately giving aloud whistle, cried out “ Janet! a bottle ofale and a dram !’* “ Coming, Sir,” said theold lady; starting out of her nap.The Sexton of a parish-church inShropshire insisted on a poor man, who hadlost his leg by amputation, paying sixteenpence for burying it. The man appealed tothe Rector, who said that he could not re¬lieve him in the present case ; but he wouldconsider in his fees when the remainder ofhis body came to be buried.Epitaph on a Physician.Here Doctor Fisher lies interr’d,Who filled the half of this church-yard.A certain bruising Parson having beenexamined as a witness in the Court of King’sBench, the adverse Counsel attempted tobrowbeat him: I think you are the bruising15; Parson, said he. I am, said the divine; an ltif you doubt it, I’ll give it you under my?t:hand,!A gentleman happening to be in thestable belonging to an inn in London, met amost active fellow officiatingas hostler. Thegentleman enquired where he came from ?Yorkshire, was the reply. How long haveyou been here as ostler? Thirteen years.tflWhat! you a Yorkshireman, and so long a' iseivant: why, I should have supposed youI would have been master ere this time. Ay,Sir, but master is Yorkshire too.Hugo /4rnot, author of the History ofEdinburgh, &c. was a perfect walking skel¬eton. One day he was eating a split driedhaddock, or, as it is called in Scotland, aspelding, when Harry Erskinecame in. Yousee, said Hugo, I am not starving. 1 mustown, replied the other, that you are verylike your meat.An Irish soldier once returning frombattle in the night, marching a little waybehind his companion, called out to him,Hollo, Pat, 1 have catch’d a Tartar ! Bring-him along then! bring him along-! Aye,I but he won’t come. Why, then, come away16without him. By Saint Patrick, but hewon’t let me. t\ • tLord Somers, when Chancellor, hireda small box near Twickenham common, inwhich parish Mr Johnson, secretary of statefoi Scotland, built a beautiful villa. Thechancellor of England invited the secretaryof Scotland to a convivial dinner; and John¬son, as the glass was circulating, told a longtale of a countryman of his own, and woundup his story by saying that the person was ad—d kna\ e. The chancellor stared at him,and exclaimed, It is strange for you, MrJohnson, to call a Scotchman a knave.—Take no heed to that, said the secretary, foryou may depend on it, that we have moreknaves in Scotland that ye have honest menin England.A gentleman being asked his opinionof the singing of a lady who had not thepurest breath, said, that the words of thesong were delightful, but he did not muchadmire the air.What objection can you have to me(said a wifeof Bath to her husband) it is ab¬solutely impossible fortwo people to be more1817of one mind—you want to be master, andso do I ?Macklin the player, once goin£ to one* of the fire offices to insure some properly,was asked by the clerk how lie would pleaseto have his name entered? Entered, repliedthe veteran, why, 1 am only plain Charles1 Macklin, a vagabond, by act o' Parliament;but, in compliment to the times, you mayset me down Charles Macklin, Esq. as theyare now synonimous terms.A celebrated physician being sent forby a lady who imi.gined herself very ill, sheI complained to him that she ate too much,slept to sound, ami had a very uncommonflow of spirits. Make youiself perfectly easyMadam,said the doctor, follow my prescrip¬tion, and you shall soon have none of thesethings to complain of.Two friends, who had not seen eachother a great while, meeting by chance, ones asked the other how be did? He replied,1 that he was not very well, and was married> since they had last met. That is good newsi indeed. Nay, not so very good neither, forI I married a shrew. That is bad, too. Notso bad, neither, for 1 had two thousand18pounds with her. That is well again. Notso well neither, for l laid it out in sheep, andthey all died of the rot. That was hard, intruth. Not so hard neither, for I sold theskins for more than the sheep cost me. Ayethatmadeyou amends. Not so much amendsneither, for I laid out my money in a house,and it was burned. That was a ^reat loss,indeed. Not so great a loss, neither—formy wife was burned in it!A religious English gentleman latelyadvertised for a coachman, and had a greatnumber of applications. One of them heapproved of, and told him, if his characteranswered, he would take him on the termswhich they had agreed : But, said he, my"ood fellow, as I am rather a particularman, it may be proper to inform you, thatevery evening, after the businessin the stableis done, l shall expect you to come to myhouse for a quarter of an hour, to attendfamily prayers—to this I suppose you canhave no objection 9 VVhy, as to that, Sir,(replied the fellow) I does not see much tosay against it, but I hope you’ll consider itin my wages.An English gentleman being1 taken ill19:>f the yellow fever at Jamaica, a laJy, whomJie had married in that island, indirectly hint-ffid to him, in the presence of an Irish phy-;ician, who attended him, the propriety ofmaking his will, in a country where peopleire so apt to die. The physician, thinkingbis judgment called in question, tartly re¬plied, Truly, Madam, I wish you woul Itellme that country where people do not die,and I will go and end my days there.A man being asked by his neighbour,mow his wife did ? made this answer: In¬deed, neighbour, the case is pitiful, my wifefears she shall die, and I fear she will not|die, which makes a most disconsolate house.A gieat crowd being gathered abouta poor cobler, who had just died in theStreet, a man asked Alexander Stevens whatSvas to be seen ? Only a Cobler’s End, re¬died he.Bayle says that a woman will inevit¬ably divulge every secret with which she is(intrusted, except one, and that is—her ownage.An irish soldier, who came over withGeneral Moore, being asked if he met withmuch hospitality in Holland? O yes, re-plied he, to much : I was in the hospitaalmost all the time [ was there.The Duchess of York bein^- in wan .5of a laundress, desired the housekeeper tclook out for some person to fill that situation. A decent looking woman was accordingly recommended ; but the housekeeperobjected to her, and, in the Duke's presence .observed, that she was s soldier’s wife, and ,rthat these people were generally bad char-,acters. What’s that you say, (replied the,Duke) a soldier’s wife! pray what is yourmistress?—Engage the woman this instant.In a great storm at sea, when the ship’screw were all at prayers, a boy burst into aviolent fit ot laughter ; being reproved forhis ill-timed mirih, and asked the reason otit, Why, said he, I was laughing to thinkwhat a hissing the boatswain’s red nose willmake when it comes into the v/ater. Thisjludicrous remark set the crew a-laughing,inspired them with now spirits, and by agreat exertion they brought the vessel safeinto port.The following curious paragraph, inhonour of the Dutch physicians, was latelyinserted in one of the London Papers21‘The mortality in Groningen, Delft, andiRotterdam, was at first very great; but afteriidie death of the three physicians, it is statedto have abated very considerably.”Chateauneut, keeper of the seals ofoLouis XIil. when a boy of only nine years; :>f age, was asked many questions bya bishop: ind gave very prompt answers to them all.'\t length the prelate said, I will give you an•range if you will tell me where God is ?—'My Lord, replied the boy, I will give you• iwo oranges, if you will tell rne where he istGiot!( During the great Frederick of Prussia’shijast painful illness, that eminent physicianiOr Zimmerman, of Hanover, attended him.qlDne day, when he waited upon his Majesty,ihe King said to him, You, Sir, I suppose,fnave helped many a man into another world,otfot so many, replied the doctor, as yourMajesty, nor with so much honour to myself.An apothecary in Dm ham has the fbl-owing words written in his shop-window:J)yin<s stuffs sold here.”A stranger, who hail acquired thehabit of standing long on one leg, came toi ^acedemon to see the city. Exhibiting this2‘2trick to a Spartan, he told him, Tauntingly,Ycu could not preserve that posture so long.I know that, replied the Lacedemonian, buta goose can.Mrs Siddons, in performing the cha¬racter of Jane Shore, having arrived at theconclusion of that affecting tragedy, whereshe says, “ Now, I die! I die!” falls down,nature being supposed entirely exhausted.—A sailor, perched on the front of the shillinggallery, forgetting that the distress of theactress was feigned, roared out to the pit,Ho! why don’t some of ycu lubbers in thatthere hold hand the poor woman a can ofgrog, since she is so badly ?”Dr Franklin, when last in England,used pleasantly to repeat an observation ofhis negro-servant, when the Doctor was ,making the tour of Derbyshire, Lancashire,ice. “ Every thing, Massa, work in thiscountry; water work; wind work; firework;smoke work; dog work ; (he had noticed the tlast at Hath) man work; bullock work; horsework; ass work ; every thing work here butthe hog ; he eat, he drink, he sleep, he doii18S3Nothing all day, he walk about like a gen-isleman!”One of the people called Quakers,qually remarkable for his gallantry to their sex, as for his urbanity of manners,as one day walking in the streets of Edin¬burgh with a handsome young lady, whoremarked to him, that the heat of the dayas oppressive; on which the Quaker recom-ended her to throw off a petticoat. TheMy replied, Between you and I, friend—s, I have but one on. And betweenee and me, replied broad-brim, even thatone too many !A very young officer, striking an oldenadier of his company for some supposedult in performing his evolutions, was un¬de to reach any higher than his legs. Therenadier, upon this infantine assault, grave-took off his cap, and holding it over thehcer by the tip, said, Sir, if you weie noty officer, I would extinguish you.Francis I. having imposed a new taxwas reported to him, as a treasonable of-nce, that the people murmured so muchnot even to spare his sacred person. Poh!24answered Francis, why should they not have*amusement for their money?A citizen dyin# greatly in debt, itcoming to his creditors’ ears, Farewell, saidone there is so much of mine gone with him.ytfnd he carried so much of mine, said ano¬ther. One hearing them make their severalcomplaints, said, Well, I see now, that tho'a man can carry nothing of his own out ofthe world, yet he may carry a great deal ofother men’s.A young fellow in the country, after!having an affair with a girl in the neighbour¬hood, said. What shall I do, Bess, if you.prove with child ' Oh ! very well, said shefor I am to be married tomorrow.