THESHEPHERDESSOF THEALPS;A very Interesting, Pathetic, andMoral Tale.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.SC0TUNB nThe Shepherdess of the Alps.88 3 Cl H 3l H ^ 3 H 8In that pari of the Alps, amidst the highmountains of Savoy, very near the road that leadsfrom Briancon to Modena, is a lonely valley,whose solitary aspect instills into the minds of allwho travel through it, a sort of pleasing melan¬choly. Three hills in the form of an ampitheatre,on which some shepherds’ huts are scattered atseveral distances, interspersed with clumps of loftytrees, streams tumbling down the mountains incascades, and pastures ever green, compose thebeautiful landscape of tin's nat ural scene.Count Fonrose and his Lady was returningtrom France to Italy, when their carriage brokedown as they were passing through the valley ;and as the day was on the decline, they wereobliged to look for some place of cover, where topass the night. While they advanced towardsone of the huts, they perceived a drove of sheepdrove by a shepherdess, whose walk andair filledthem with astonishment, and their ears with thesweet accent of her melodious voice, when theechos repeated in plaintive sounds,How beautiful the setting sun !ts dady course now almost run,We can behold his charms:Most pleasing are its fainter raysI ban when in full meridian blaze It dazzles whilst it warms.Thus it will prove, said she, when, after a painful——-  3race, the wearied soul arrives at the wished forgoal and calmly drops into eternity, to renew itsvigour in the mitre source of immortality. But,alas ! how distant is the prospect! how slowly itpasses away. In saying these words the shepherd¬ess moved bn ; her head declined with a soppinessin her attitude, which gave ease and dignity to hergait and mein. Struck with amazement at whatthey saw, and more with what they heard, theCount and Countess redoubled their steps to over¬take her. But what was their surprise, whenunderlier coarse straw hat and mean apparel, theymet with every beauty, every grace. Pray child,said the Countess (finding she endeavoured to shunthem) be not alarmed ; we are travellers, that anaccident obliges us to ask for shelter till morningin one of your cabins: be so kind as to he ourguide. I am very sorry, madam, answered theshepherdess^blushing and casting down her eyes,that you will he but ill accommodated, as thesehuts belong to very poor people. You live here Isuppose, said the. Countess : and surely I may putup with the inconveniences for one night when youundergo them continually, There is a wide dif¬ference,saidthemodestshepherdess: lam broughtup to it. My conditions has its sweets for one thatknows no other state,of life. Custom and exam¬ple create wants for the wealthy, which the poorare ignorant of. It’may be So with those that areborn in this solitude, Said the Count; but for youcharming unknown, you are not what you seemto be ; your air, your vojce; your lariguage betrayyour disguise. These few words you have ?aiddiscover a noble soul, and a cultivated education.4Oh tell us lovely creature what cruel turn of fatehas lowered you to this condition. A man undermisfortune, replied Adelaide, may find a thousandmeans to extricate himself; but to a woman insuch cases, has no resource but in the honestservitude; and in the choice of one’s master,methinks ’tis best to prefer the good and virtuous.You are going to see mine, and you will bedelighted with the innocence of their lives, andthe candour and simplicity of their manners.As she was still speaking, they arrived at the hut.—It was divided by a partition from the sheepfold,into which the shepherdess turned her flockcounting them over with the most serious attention,heedless of the strangers, who beheld her withadmiration. I he old folks, such as representedBaucis and Philemon, received their guests withthe honest simple courtesy which recalled thegolden age. U’e have nothing to offer you, saidthe good woman, but clean straw for your bed,and a hearty welcome to such provisions as heavenaffords us, milk, fruit and oaten bread. In enter¬ing the cabin, they were amazed to seethe orderand neatness that appeared every w here in so poora habitation. Their table was a walnut plank,finely polished with frequent rubbing; their earth¬en dishes and dairy pans shone with the nicestcleanness; every thing presented the image ofcontented poverty, happy to be wherewithal! tosupply the real wants of nature. ’Tis our deardaughter, said the good old woman, that managesall our little affairs. At break of day, before sheleads her flock to the hills and dales, whilst theyarc nipping about our hut the sweet grass sur-5charged with the morning dew, employs thattime in putting every thing in the neat order andmanner you see them placed. What ! said theCountess, interrupting her, is the shepherdess in¬deed your daughter? Would to heaven she was,replied the good old creature ! she is the daughterof my heart, and 1 have a mother’s fondness forher; but I am not so happy as to have broughtsuch perfections into the world, nor are we worthyof such honour. What is she then ? Whence cameshe ? What misfortune has reduced her to so lowa station? All that is a secret to us. Ihree yearsago she came here in the habit of a villager, andoffered to tend our flock. She would have beenwelcome to share our little, without taking uponher that painful task ; so much the sweetness ofher person and behaviour engaged our hearts. Wecould not believe she was bred in a cottage. Ourquestions made her uneasy. We desisted fromfarther enquiry, as they seemed to disturb her.As our knowledge of her good qualities increas¬ed, so did our respect, but the more we stroveto show her that respect, the more she humbledherself before us. No, never had any child for itsparents a more tender regard, a more constant careShe cannot obey, because ’tis impossible for usto command ; but she dives into our hearts, andprevents our wishes, when tkey arc scarcelyformed. What is she doing now in the sheep-fold,asked the Countess. She milks the ewes andshe-goats, fosters the young kids and lambs, and givesthem fresh litter. The cheeses she makes arethought delicious; no doubt for having beenpressed with her neat hands. I carry it to theGmarket and have not near enough to supply allthose that would be my customers. When the dearchild is tending the dock in the pastures, sheemploys herself in making works of plaited straw,•which, are admired by every bod}'. I wish youwere to see with what dexterity she weaves theoder plain twigs, and mats the tender flexiblerukhes. There is nothing, let it appear ever sophiftet, hot what she can improve upon. Is shehappy ? said the Countess. She does all that shecan to make us believe so, said the old pastor; butl have made my dame observe, that she oftentimesreturns from the pasture with a dejected look, hereyes si ill moist « ith tears; but as soon as she sees nsshe effects a smile. ’ 1 is easy to perceive there issome gnawing grief that preys upon her heart:the cause of which we dare not. ask. And then,said this eld goody, what concern does she not giveme, when in spite of all our entreaties, the dear■ reature will, in the severest weather, lead abroadher bleating care. A thousand times have I re-(juested her, in the most earnest manner, to let menow and then relieve her; but my requests havenever been complied with. She rises with the sun,conducts the flock, and does not return till it sets,often shivering with cold. How is it possible, mydear parents, she would say, with all the tendernessof a loving child, how is it possible that I shouldconsent to let you leave your fireside, to heexposed, at your age, to the inclemency of theseason, which I, j'oung as 1 am, can scarcesupport.— At the same time she comes loaded withfaggots, which she gathers in the wood; andwhen she sees I am troubled at the fatigue she\Y7must undergo, don't 1: e uneasy, says she, my dearmother, exercise keeps me warm, and labour is titfor my age. In short, my dear lady, she is a>good as she is beautiful. My husband and I neverspeak of her but with tears of affection. What ifyou were deprived of her? said the Countess.Why, answered the old shepherd, we would bedeprived of all that is dear to us in the world ; butif she is to be happier for it, we will die content,and our misfortunes shall he our comfort. Oh !may kind heaven heap blessings on her head.There is none so great but what she deserves. 1was in hopes that her dear hands would have closedmy eyes, for ! love her much more than I do my life.Adelaide's coming put an end to the conversation.In one hand she carried a pan of milk, and in theother a basket of fruit; and after courtseying witha grace peculiar to herself, she set about the littlehousehold affairs, as she was not the least takennotice of. My dear child, said the Countess, yeugive yourself a deal of trouble. Not at all, madam,I endeavour to fulfil the intentionofthc best people,whose servant l am, to treat you in the bestmanner, with what their Ijltie can produce; but lam afraid, continued she; whilst she was spreadingon a coarse table doth as white as snow, that )ouwill make but a sorry meal. The bread is brownbut very savory : ilje eggs are new laid, the milkfresh drawn, and the fruit fresh gathered, such asthe season affords.Diligence, attention, and modest deportment inevery minute duty of hospitality, were conspicuousin this wonderful shepherdess. After the frugalrepast, Count Fonrose and his amiable lady retired8to rest on tlie bed though but of straw, whichAdelaide had prepared for them. Is not ouradventure surprising?—Let us endeavour, saidthey to unravel the mystery of this pretendedshepherdess, invite her to accompany us, andmake her happy if vve can.Without desiring to penetrate into the secrets ofyour birth, Adelaide, or into whatever is the causeof your distress I feel that l am sensibly interestedin all that concerns your welfare. ’ fis evidentthat your courage raises you above your misfor¬tunes, and that you conform your behaviour suitableto your present circumstances. ’Tis true, yourcharms and your virtues render your condition nowas it is respectable, but it is not a condition design¬ed for you. It is in my power, amiable unknown,to alter it, as the Count’s intentions are quiteagreeable to mine. I want a bosom friend; andwhat I have seen in you, I shall think myselfpossessed ofan inestimable treasure, if you consentto be my friend and companion. Be not underany concern about these good people; I shallmake up for their loss, at least as far as to enablethem to pass the remainder of their days in peaceand plenty, & from your hands they shall receivemy constant bounty. The poor old folks, whowere present, fell on their knees and kissed theCountess’s hand; then turning to Adelaide, theyconjured her in the most pressing terms, to acceptthe lady’s generous proposal. We cannot at ourtime of day, be far frnm the grave, and as it hasbeen our constant study to make our lives happy,so must our death leave you comfortless in thissolitary place. The shepherdess embracing them., ■w^sW^J****-*-’*- ■<     —9and mixing her tears with theirs, returned athousand thanks to their noble guests with a sweet¬ness that increased her charms, I cannot, said sheaccept of your favour; heaven has marked mydestined lot, and I submit to it; but I shall alwayswith the most grateful heart, acknowledge yourgoodness, and the name of Fonrose will never beabsent from my memory. The only thing that Irequest of you is, to bury this adventure in eternalsilence, and never to reveal the fate of an unknownperson, who is determined to live and die in obli¬vion. The Count and Countess redoubled theirsolicitations, but all in vain—she was immoveableThe travellers parted from their charming shep¬herdess in retirement.During their journey, their conversation wastaken up with this strange adventure, whichappeared to them as a romance. They arrivedat Turin, their imagination full of it, and you maybe sure their desired silence could not be observed.The charms and virtues of this unknown shepherd¬ess was an inexhaustablc source of reflection andconjecture. Young Fonrose, their only son, wasoften present at their conversation, and never let asingle circumstance escape his memory. He wasof that age when imagination is most lively, ant!the heart most susceptible of receiving tenderimpressions ; but he was of the character of thosewho keep the feelings of their sensibility withinthemselves, and which are so much more violentlyagitated when they burst from their confinement,as they have never been wakened by any dissipa¬tion. All the wonders he heard related of thevalley of Savoy, raised in his soul the most10passionate desire of serving her. The object whichhie imagination has formed, is ever in his rtiind.Turin became mSiipportnbfe; the valtey where theinestimable jewel was hid, was the loadstone thatattracted his heart; 'tis thdre he places all hishappiness, but how to get at it ? Ifhis designs arefound out, what difficulties to surmount ! Hisparents will never consent to- the journey heintends: 'twill not be looked upon as the mereeffects of curiosity, but be deemed a youthful follythat may have bad consequences: and the shep¬herdess may be alarmed at his presence, and shunhis addresses; if it is discovered, he loses her forever. After three months struggle, he determinedto quit all for her alone, and under the disguise ofa shepherd, find her out in the lonely valley, andthere remain till death if he could not prevail onher to leave it—lie disappeared—His father andmother missed him with great consternation, andwaited his return with the greatest impatience.Their apprehensions increased more and more, andhis absence continuing, the whole family wasplunged into consternation. Their fruitless searchand enquiries completed their distress: however,at last, these unfortunate parents are reduced fothe less of their on!}' chile). Whilst the afflictedfamily of Fonrose was in this dejection, the youtharrived at the valley which had been described, &in the habit of a peasant, presented himself to someof the neighbouring cottagers, and offered hisservices. His ambition is satisfied. He is accept¬ed of, arid a flock is committed to bis care. Atfirst he only followed the sheep wherever theychose to feed, in hopes that change would 'direct11him to the same pastures where the solitary shep¬herdess fed her flock.Whilst he indulged himself with, pleasing re¬flections, his eyes wandering on the beautifulscenes of the valley, he heard at some distance,the very voice, whose melody had been so oftentold of, which raised an emotion in his heart, asgreat as if it had been an accident unexpected.She sung the following words :—Sweet Solitude! to which I fly,Of every joy bereft:There Affliction's cup enjoy,The boon that’s left.These melancholy complaints pierced Fonrose'stender heart. Ah ! whence this grief that con¬sumes her ! what pleasure to afford her comfort1He durst not as yet raise his hopes any higher.It might perhaps alarm her; it was sufficient forthe first time to have heard the sweetness of voice.Next morning Fonrose went to the pastures, andhaving observed which way the shepherdess direct¬ed her flock, he sat himself at the foot of the rock,which the day before had echoed with her movingsounds.Adelaide, absorbed in melancholy, had not yetbegun her melodious strains. The echoes weresilent, when on a sudden that silence was inter¬rupted by the sweet notes of Fonrose’s hautboy.A harmony so uncommon, filled her with amaze¬ment, mixed with some emotion. Her ears hadnever there been struck before but with the shrillsqueaking and buzzing hum of the rustic bagpipe.12Motionless, with deep attention she east her eyeiaround, to find out from whence proceeded suchdivine music. She perceived at some distance,a young shepherd sitting in the cavity of a rock,at the foot of which his sheep w’as feeding. Shedrew somewhat nearer, that she might hear himplay more distinctly. Behold, said she, the effectsof instinct! the ear alone has given this shepherdall the fineness of this charming art! what purityof the notes ! variety of the modulations ! whattine and neatness in the execution ! who then shallsay that taste is not the gift of nature.Adelaide, for the first time since her retirement,felt her grief in some measure suspended. Fonrose,who saw her approach nearer, and sit down undera willow, to listen more conveniently, had givenher no room to think he had perceived her; hetook the opportunity as soon as she retired, tocalculate the pace of her dock, so as to meet herwithout affection at the bottom of the hill, wherethe road that leads to the different huts crossed eachother. He gave her a look in a seemingly carelessmanner, as if he was wholly taken up with theguidance of the sheep ; but, ah ! what beautieswhere gazed on in that look ! what eyes! what amouth! what divine features ! so moving in theirlangour! how ravishing would they appear if an¬imated with love ! affliction had added paleness,and faded in some degree, the blooming carnationof her cheeks. But all of her charms, nonestruck him with so much admiration as herelegant shape and air. The charming imagewhich love engraves in his heart, takes up histhoughts, & fills his soul with irresistable passions.13/r.How faintly, said he, has she been described ! thelovely beauty is unknown to the world, whoseadmiration she deserve. She that w’ould grace athrone, lives under the thatch of a cottage, em¬ployed in the low occupation of tending thetiocks ! In what poor garments does she appear !But she embellishes every thing, and nothing candemand her.Adelaide felt herself somewhat touched withFonrose’s youth and comeliness, nor could shehelp reflecting on his capricious turn of fortune.For what end, thought she, has nature endowedthis young shepherd with such talents, and form¬ed him with such graces.Next day Fonrose imagined that she affectedto avoid his coming near her. He was cast dowmat the very thought. Does she suspect my dis¬guise ? Have I discovered myself? These uncer¬tainties perplex my mind. His hautboy wasneglected. A delaide was not for distant, but couldhave heard the sounds, had he played upon it.She could not guess the meaning of its silence,began to sing in her old melodious strains.Ye pretty birds, whose pensive notes,My lamentation join,Ah ! what avails your warbling throats,Can they sooth woes like mine ?All seem around to share my grief,As if to asuage my pain ;But mine admits of no relief,And comfort speaks in vain.Fonrose, moved to his inmost soul, with her14complained, so melodiously expressed, could notrefrain from taking up his hautboy. She contin¬ued, and he accompanied her sweet voice.Never was unisdn more harmonious. Is thisan enchantment'?'said Adelaide. May I believemy sense? ’Tis no mean shepherd! ’tis somesupernatural being that I have been listening to !Nature may give a bent, but great masters andconstant practice only can reach to such perfection.As she was thus musing, the valley resounded withantral or rather a divine symphony. Adelaideimagined she saw realized these prodigies, whichpoetn' attributes to music, her brilliant sister.Astonished and confused, she could not determinewhether to approach or retire. Music was a giftfrom heaven bestowed on man in that state ofinnocence; it is the purest of all pleasures, and theonly one that I can yield to. I look upon thisshepherd as art echo that comes to repeat my grief.Alas ! said she, I give myself up too easily to thelittle comfort I felt: I am deprived of it for mypbnishment. One day they met, as if by chance,Shepherd, said she, do you lead your flocks to anygreat distance? These words uttered from her sweetlips, caused in Fonrose’s heart such an emotion asalmost deprived him of his voice. I cannot tell,replied he, with hesitation ; ’tis not I that lead mysheep, ’tis my sheep that lead me ; they are betteracquainted than 1 am with these pastures, and 1 letthem range wherever they please to go. Fromwhence come you ? said Adelaide. I was born onthe other side ofthe Alps. And were you broughtup to a shepherd‘s life? No doubt, since I am one,I was destined for it. That is what 1 scarce believe,/r.<15she replied, gazing on him with fixed attention ;your talents, your Ihuguage, your air, alt convinceto the contrary. The other day, said she,, yourhautboy accompanied my voice with such a mas¬terly air, as must seem a prodigy in one broughtup to feed the flocks. ’ Fis to your singing,replied Fonrose, that’s so rare in a single shepherd¬ess. What! were you never instructed ! Likeyou I have no other guide than my heart and myear. You sung-—-l was moved—what my heartfeels my instrument expresses—I breath it in mvvery soul. This is all my secret—nothing is morenatural. ’ Tis incredible, said Adelaide, I thoughtso too, said he, whilst I listened to your voice, &now l am convinced of it; though sometimesnature and love will frolicsomely bestow herchoicest favours on the meanest objects, to showthere is no condition, be it ever so low, but whatthey can ennoble.Whilst they thus discoursed, advancing in thevalley, Fonrose, animated by a ray of hope, beganto make the hautboy resound rapturous notes thatthe pleasure inspires. Ah! cease, cried Adelaide,spare me the image of a sentiment 1 never moreshall taste. This solitude is consecrated to grief;these echoes are unused to repeat the accents ofjoy; all here join with rrfy lamentations. I amnot without woes, said the young shepherd, fetch-irtg a deep sigh, which was foflorted with a pauseof silence. What h is caused your afflictions? ofwhat do you complain? is it of mankind? is it oflate ?—1 really cannot tell. All that I know is,that I am far from being happy, pray inquire nofarther into my situation. Hear me. said Adelaide,16Heaven lias made us acquainted to be a mutualsupport to each other’s woes! mine is a burthenunder which my heart sinks down even to dispon-dency. Whoever you be, if you are unhappy,you are compassionate—I believe you are worthythe confidence I shall repose in you ; but youmust promise me that the promise will be reciprocalAlas ! said Fonrose, my woes are of a natureperhaps never to be relieved! Meet me to-morrow,said Adelaide, at the foot of this hill, under thespreading oak, where you beard me moan. I shallthere reveal what will excite your pity. Theyparted; Fonrose passed the night with greatinquietude; his fate depending ox what he was tobear; he dreaded the discovery of a tender un¬happy passion. If she loves I am undone.He set out for the rendezvous, and the fairshepherdess arrived soon after. The morn wasovercast with clouds, as if nature had presagedtheir sorrowful conversation. They seated them¬selves under the oak; when after a profound sighAdelaide thus began—THE STORY OF HER WOES.“ Beneath these stones you see there, almostcovered with the creeping grass, lie the remains ofa most faithful and virtuous man, whom my loveand imprudence brought to the grave. I was bornin France of a wealthy family, and of highdistinction; too wealthy to my misfortune.Count Oreston conceived for me the most passion¬ate tender love, to which my heart correspondedwith equal warmth. My parents objected to ourunion, and refused their consent. Hurried on by/r.17my passion, l agreed to a private marriage, sacredto virtuous souls, but disapproved by laws. Italythen was the seat of war. My husband wasordered to join the corps he was to command:and I went with him as far as Briancon. Theremy foolish fondness prevailed on him to stay withme three days, which he passed with extremereluctance. I sacrificed, said he, my duty toyou. But what had I not sacrificed for him ?“ He afterwards set out with a foreboding thatterrified me. I accompanied him to this valley,where we took leave of each other, and I returnedto Briancon. In a few days a report of a battlewas spread about. 1 w'as sure my dear Orestonwas there I wished it for his honour—I fearedit for my love. When I received a letter fromhim, (which afforded me much comfort) it inform¬ed me that such a day, such an hour, I should findhim in the valley, under the same oak where I hadbid him farewell—that he should be alone, anddesired to meet me unaccompanied—adding thathe only lived for me. I was exact to the ap¬pointment. Mr. Oreston received me in the mosttender manner. Ah ! my dear Adelaide, said heyou would have it so. I have failed in my dutyat the most important crisis of my life. What 1feared is come to pass. The battle was given,my regiment charged, performed wonders ofvalour, and I was not at its head. I am dishon¬oured for ever-lost without help—I have butone sacrifice more to make jou which I am cometo consummate. At these words I pressed my dearhusband in my arms. I felt my blood congeal inmy shivering heart. I fainted dead away, He18took that opportunity to perpetrate his design ;and I was called to life again by the report of thefatal pistol that gave him his death. How can Ipaint the cruel situation in which I was left? itcannot he described. The tears that must forever flow ; the sighs that suffocate my voice, givebut a faint idea of my distress. 1 passed the nightover the bloody corpse quite stupified with grief.My first thoughts were, as soon as I was able, tobury it and my shame together. These handsdug his grave. Depressed with grief, deprived offood, my feeble hands were two days employed inperforming this last sad duty ; and 1 then formeda determined resolution, to remain in this solitudetill death unite us.‘ You see with what sincerity I open to youmy inmost soul. Henceforth 1 may weep in jourpresence without restrain—a relief my over-burd¬ened heart stands much in need of. 1 expect youwill put the same confidence in me, that I haveput in you. Don’t imagine that 1 am imposedupon: 1 am certain that you are no more ashepherd than I am shepherdess. You are young,perhaps in love: for if 1 guess aright, our mis¬fortunes flow from the same source. The simili¬tude of our conditions will make us feel the morefor each other. I look upon you as one whomheaven, moved with my afflictions, has sent intothis solitude to save me from despair. 1 look uponyou as a sincere friend, capable of giving, if notsatisfactory advice, at least a firm example of trueresignation to the Divine will.’Ah ! mail am, said bon rose, overwhelmed withwhat he heatd, whatever tender sensibility my/r.19heart is prone to feel, you are far from imaginingwith what deep concern the recital of your woeshas affected me—the impression will remain as.long as life. sVhat! must l have a secret, nayeven a thought reversed from you—from you whohave a right after what you have intrusted mewith, to scrutinize my very soul ? but as 1 told youbefore, and as my foreboding heart apprehended,such is the nature of my woes, that I am doomedto conceal them in eternal silence. Be not offend¬ed, charming friend, at a silence which is mygreatest torment. You are very unhappy; butl am more unhappy still. I‘ll be your constantcompanion; I‘ll endeavour to mitigate your sor¬rows, and help to ease you in an employment toolaborious for your delicate frame. Let me be apartaker of your grief, and when I behold youweeping over the tomb, I will mix. my tears w ithyours. In her abrupt departure she saw inFonrose's countenance all the marks of an effect¬ed mind. Alas ! said she, I have renewed hissufferings. O what sufferings must they be, thatcan give him grounds to think himself moreunhappy chan l am. No more music, no moreconversation. They neither seemed to seek Orshun each other. Looks that spoke their thoughtswere all their language,—it was very expressive.When he beheld her weeping over her husband'sgrave, he beheld her with mute attention, full ofjealousy, grief and pity, till her groans were echoedby his. A few days were past in this painfulconflict, when Adelaide took notice how the youngman wasted away, like a blooming flower, justblasted by some malignant planet. 1 he grief that20consumed him gave her much concern, as notbeing intrusted with what occasioned his trouble,’twas out of her power to administer any comfort.Unhappy youth ! said she, the Hrst time they met |after her resolve, you perish daily, and give methe fruitless concerns of beholding you consumeaway, and not be able to afford me any comfort.If the recital of my imprudent conduct has alteredyour opinion of me; tell me, I conjure you, thecause of your afflictions.Ah! madam, let me end my deplorable lifewithout leaving you to reproach yourself withhaving shortened it. O heaven ! she cried, what ]I ? Can I have contributed to increase the w oesunder which you perish ? Ease my tortured heart,and tell me what I have said? What have l doneto aggrivate your afflictions ? Speak, I say—youhave revealed too much to hide yourself anylonger—I do insist upon knowing who you are.Since you will force from me so peremptorily thefatal secret know that I am-—that I am Ponrose, theson of those you lately filled with admiration andrespect. \ 11 that I have heard them relate of yourvirtue and your charms,inspired me with the rashdesign of seeing you under this disguise. I haveseen you, and my fate is fixed. I have left myfamily in the deepest distress, They think that Iam for ever lost; they lament my death. I know'what is your attachment here ; and I have noother hope but to die adoring you. Forbear togive me any useless advice ; my resolutions is asunmoveable as your own. Adelaide astonishedat what she had heard, endeavouring to soothyoung Fonrose's despair, i will restore him, said21/r.she, to his afflicted parents, and save their onlyhope from death. Impatient to put in executionthe design she had formed, arrived at the hut.Father, said she to the old Pastor, do yen thinkyourself able to take a journey to Turin ? I wanta person that I can rely on, to carry the Countand Countess Fonrose intelligence of what con¬cerns their whole happiness. My zeal said theold man, to serve, them, will give me strengthequal to my inclination. Go then, continued she,you will find them at present lamenting the deathof their only child. Inform them that he isliving, and that it is their poor Adelaide that willrestore him to their arms. But at the same timetell them, there is an indispensible necessity oftheir coming in person to fetch hirn. He set outimmediately, and arrived at the Count’s house inTurin. He sent in word, that the old man of thevalley of Savoy was come to wait upon them Ah!cried the Countess, perhaps some misfortune hasbefallen our lovely shepherdess ! Bid the old manenter, said the Count, who knows but Adelaideconsents to come and live with us? Ir would bereplied the Countess, the only comfort I can tasteafter the loss of my son. The old man is intro¬duced, he embraced their knees—they raise himto their arms. You weep, said he, the death ofyour son, and I am come to inform you that he isalive. It is our dear child that has discovered himin the valley, and has dispatched me to communi¬cate to you this interesting news, but she saysthat yourselves, and only you, can bring him back.Whilst he was speaking the Countess fainted away,overcome with surprise and joy. The Countcalls for assistance. She revives. They embracethe old Shepherd by turns, and acquaint the wholefamily with the subject of their trans-port. Theyset immediately on their journey, and arrivedwith the greatest expedition. The old dame,conducted them to the place where she was. Mowgreat their surprise! when they beheld their lovelyson with the shepherdess, in the habit of a simplepastor. Ah ! cruel child, cried Fonrose’s mother,throwing her arms abou t his neck, w hat troublesyou have given us. What could enducc you toleave your affectionate parents ? What is yourbusiness here ? To adore what you yourself somuch admired. Madam, said Adelaide, whilstFonrose embraced his father’s knees, you wouldnot have been so long a prey to grief, had Idiscovered sooner your dear son. After a feweffusions of nature were over, Fonrose relapsedinto his former melancholy'. Come, said theCountess, let us go and repose ourselves in thecabin, and forget the woes this young man hasplunged us in. ’Tis very true, said Fonrose to hisfather, who led him by the hand; what else butthe deprivation of my' reason could suspend theemotions of nature, and make me forget the mostsacred duties? what but madness? I am in lovewith the most amiable and accomplished person inthe world. You have seen but little of herHonour, Virtue, and Sensibility ! She unites allthat ,is good. I cannot be happy without her,and she never can be mine. Has she trusted you,said the Count, with, the secret of her birth ? Ihave learned enough, replied Fonrose, to assureyou it is not inferior to mine. She has renounced23/r.a considerable fortune in the World, to remain inthis solitude. Do you know what motive has in¬duced her to it? I do; but it is a secret which shealone can reveal. Is she married ? No ; she is awidow ; but her heart is no less engaged, nay, itis rather hound with stronger chains. Madam,said the Count to Adelaide, as they had enteredthe cabin, you see how you turn the heads, aswell as captivate ad that bears the name of Fonrose.Nothing could have justified my son's extravagantpassions, but so virtuous, so loving an object. M ywife’s utmost wishes were to have you for a friend.Ah ! sir, replied Adelaide, your goodness perplex¬es me; lend me a whPe your attention, and judgemy situation. She then, in the presence of theold folks, related her sad story, adding the name ofthe family, which the Count was well acquaintedwith : and she finished her narration by takinghim for a witness of the inviolable fidelity^ sheowed her husband. At these words a deep con¬sternation appeared in their looks. Young Fbn-rose, bursting with grief, threw himself into a cor¬ner of the hut, to give loose to his sorrows. Misafflicted father laid himself down by him, castingIds eyes cn Adelaide, Madam, said he, behold theeffect of your resolution. The Countess pressingher to her bosom, Ah ! will you then, said she,give us cause to lament a second time the deathof our dear child ? 1 leave the decision of our fateto your son—let me hake a few minutes conver¬sation with him. Then retiring by themselves.Fonrose, said she, you know what sacred ties bindme here. If I could cease to lament the loss ofhim who loved and doted on me even beyond dis-€4cretion I should be deservedly despised. Friend¬ship, Gratitude'and Esteem, is all I have left togive; and is that a compensation for love? ’ fisyours to decide, and chuse which is most agreeableto you, either to conquer your passion, and striveto forget me, or take the hand of one whose heartis possessed of another object;—has nothing tobestow but friendship and esteem—and what arethey to satisfy a lover's ardent expectations? ’Tisenough, replied he tenderly, such exalted friend¬ship equals love. She is mine ! cried Fonrose,precipitating himself into his fond parents’ arms.’ fis to the respect and gratitude she has for youthat 1 owe my happiness. Did she consent merelythro’ pity and gratitude? I believe she did—shebelieved it herself, and I will not cease to admireher. Before she left the valley she would revisitthe tomb which she quitted with regret. Sheinsisted on having a monument erected to thememory of her deceased husband; and that thecabin of the good old people, who were to accom¬pany them to Turin, should be altered to a neatlittle country house ; where she intended to retirenow and then, to lament the errors and misfor¬tunes of her youth. Time and the assiduous carethat Fonrose had in every respect for Adelaide,joined to the sweet pledges, fruits of a second mar¬riage opened her heart to receive the impressionof a new inclination. And she is still quoteel asa model of perfection, and claims admiration andrespect even to her fidelity.[“Great blessings ever wait on virtuous deeds,And tho’ a late, a sure reward success.”