THECOMICAL SAYINGS1.1 FADDYFROM CORKCOAT BUTTONED BEHIND,BEIiN'rv AN ELEGANT CONFERENCE BETWEEN ENGLISHTOM AND IRISH TEAGUE; WITH TADDV’SCATECHISM: AND HIS SUPPLICATIONWHEN A MOUNTAIN SAILOR.GLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERCOMICAL SAYINGSOFPADDY FROM CORK.PART I.Tmn. Good morrow, Sir, this is a very cold day.! Teag. Arra, dear honey, yesternight was a very coldmrning., Tom. Well brother traveller of what nation art thou?Teag. Arra dear shoy, I came from my own kingdom.Tom. Why, I know that, but where is thy kingdom ?Teag. Allelieu dear honey, don’t you know Cork inreland.Tom. Yon fool, Cork is not a kingdom hut a city.Teag. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it is in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reason you have come and leftrour own dear country ?Teag. Aira dear honey, by shaint Patrick, they havejot such comical laws in our country, that they will puti man to death in peifect health ; so to he free and plainvitli you, neighbour, I was obliged to come away, for. did not choose to stay among such a people that canlang a poor man when they please, if he either steals,obs, or kills a man.Tom. Ay, but 1 take you to be more of an honestnan, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.Tuny. Honest, I am perfectly honest, when I was buta child, my mother would have trusted me with a houseidl of mill-stones.Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty of nothing.Teag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody, butfancied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwards made itmy own.4Tom. Very well l><>y> and did you keep it so ?Tern). Keep it, I would have kept it with ail my hear!while I lived, deatli itself could not have parted us, butthi old rogue, the gentleman, being a justice of peace ihimself, had me tried for tire rights of it, and how 1 camelby it, and so took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourself without punish* Kmerit pTmg. Arradear shoy, I told him a parcel of lies, butthey would not believe me ; for I said that I got it troinmy father when it was a little pistol, and 1 had kept Btill it had grown a gun, and was designed to use it wellf!until it had grown a a big cannon, and then sell it to themilitary. They all fell a laughing at me as I had beena fool, and bade me go home to my mother and cleanthe potatoes.Tom. How long is it since you left your own country ?' -Tvn<). Arra, dear honey, 1 do not mind whether it be:a fortnight or four months, but 1 think myself, it is along time; they tell me my mother is dead since, but II *wont believe it until l get a letter from her own hand,, tfor she is a very good scholar, suppose she can neither *write nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Tony. Ay, that 1 was, and in Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you when you was inScotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kick’t my ai!-e:for me, and the reason was because 1 would not pay the:whole of the liquor that was drunk in the company,<though the landlord and his two sons got mouthful abort:of it all, and 1 told them it was a trick upon travellers^ 1first to drink his liquor, and then to kick him out, of] jidoors.Tom. I really think they have used you badly, but tcould you not beat them ?Terry. That’s what 1 did, heat them all to their ovvrncontentment, but there was one of them stronger than me,who would have killed me, if the other I wo had not pulledl\vh;ifcbush.ip uway» and I had to rim for it, till his passion wasIrer, then they inade ns drink and gree again ; we shooksnds, and made a bargain, never to harm other more ;it this bargain did not last long, for, as I was kissings mouth, by shaint Patrick, I bit his nose, whichfiused him to heat me very sore for my pains.Tom. Well Paddy, what calling was you when incotland.Tmt). Why sir, I was no business at all, butyou call the green tree that’s like a whiniiiople makes a thing to sweep the house of it 1Tom. O yes, Paddy, they call it the broom.I Teay. Ay, ay, you have it, l was a gentleman’s broom,ily waited on bis horses, and washed the dishes for the>ok : and when my master rode a hunting, 1 went be-imd with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Paddy, it was the groom you mean,fut I fancy you was cook’s mate, or kitchen hoy.ji Te.acj. No, no, it was the broom that 1 was, and if(li had staid there till now, I might have been advanced||s high as my master, for the ladies loved me so well,jfiat they laughed at me.t Tom. They might admire you for a fool.I Tmg. What sir, do you imagine that I am not a fool ?rio, no, my master asked counsel of me in all his matters,ind I always give him a reason for every thing : I toldim one morning, that he went too soon to the hunting,at the hairs were not got out of their beds, and neithere barking of horns, nor the blowing of dogs could makehem rise, it was such a cold morning that night; sohey all ran away that we catched, when we did notee them. Then my master told my words to severalgentlemen that were at dinner with him, and they ad-ired me for want of judgment, for my head was all ofi lump: adding, they were going a-fishing along withny master and me in the afternoon : but I told themthat it was a very unhappy thing for any man to gohunting in the morning, and a fishing in the afternoon ;hey would try it, hut they had better staid at borne,6fnr it came on a most terrible fine night of south west rain,, ,and even down wind ; so the fishes got all below tliewater to keep themselves dry from the shower, and wecatehed them all but got none.Tom. How long did you serve that gentleman, Paddy.,,Tmtj. Ana, dear honey, I was with him six weeks,and he heat me seven times.Tom. For what did he beat you ? was it for your ,madness and foolish tricks ? ,‘«! i]Tmcj. Dear shov, it was not; but for being too in¬quisitive, and going sharply about business. First, liesent me to the post-office to enquire if there were anj| <letters for him ; so when I came there, said I, is therofany letters here for my master to-day ? Then they1asked who was my master ; sir, said 1, it is very hadmanners in von to ask any gentleman’s name; at this,they laughed, mocking me, and said they could give menone, if 1 would not tell my master’s name ; so I re¬turned to my master and told him the impudence of thefellow, who would give me no letters unless I wouldtell him your name, master. My master at this fiewm a passion, and kicked me down stairs, saying, go yourogue, and tell my name directly, how can the gentle¬man give letters when he knows not who is asking for ,them. Then 1 returned and told my master’s name, sothey told me there was one for him. I looked at it, jbeing very small, and asking the price of it, they toldme it was sixpence : sixpence, said 1, will you take [sixpence for that small thing, and selling bigger ones for Itwopence ; faith I am not such a big fool; you think Jto cheat me now, this is not a conscionable way of deal- Iing. I’ll acquaint my master with it first; so I came |and told my master how they would have sixpence forhis letter, and was selling bigger ones for twopence ; lietook tip my head and broke his cane with it, calling mea thousand' fools, saying, the man was more just than totake any thing but the right for it; but I was sure therewas none of them right, buying and selling such dearpenny-worths. So 1 came again for my dear sixpence/tter ; and as the fellow wns slmffling through a parcelthem, seeking for it again, to make the best of a deararket, I pict up two, and home I comes to my master,linking he would he pleased with what I had done ;>w, said I, master, I think I have put a trick uponhem fellows, for selling the letter to you. What havem done ? I have only taken other two letters : here’sie for yon master, to help your dear penny-worth, andII send the other to my mother to see whether she head or alive, for she’s always angry I don’t write to, »r. I had not the word well spoken, till he got nps stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent me hackp the fellows again with the two. I had a very" ill willi go, but nobody would buy them of me.Tom. Well, Paddy, I think you was to blame, andour master too, for he ought to have taught yon howgo about these affairs, and not beat you so.Teag. Arra dear honey, I had too much wit of mym to he teached by him, or any body else ; he beganinstruct me after that how I should serve the table,hd such nasty things as those : one night I took l>en aasted fish in one hand, and a piece of bread in thether; the old gentleman was so saucy he would not.ke it, and told me I should bring nothing to him witli-Ut a trencher below it. The same night as he was-oing to lied, he called for his slippers and pish-pot, so>clapt a trencher below the pish-pot, and another belowlie slippers, and ben I goes, one in every hand ; noooner did 1 enter the room than he threw the pish-pott me, which broke both my head and the pish-pot atne blow ; now, said I, the devil is in my master alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time lie counter-nands at another. Next day I went with him to the.nnrket to buy a sack of potatoes, I went to the potatoe-iger, and asked what he took for the full of a Scot’sog, he weighed them in, he asked no less than four-ence ; fourpence, said I, if I were hut in Dublin, I■Quid got the double of that for nothing, and in Corkand Linsale far cheaper ; them is but small things like8ppase, said I, but the potatoes in tnv country is as hij); as;your head, fine meat, all made np in blessed mouthfuls ;the potatoe-merchant called me a liar, and iny mastercalled me a fool, so the one fell a-kicking me, and the:other a cuffing me, I was in such bad bread among them,that I called myself both a liar and a fool to get o3alive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes home fromithe market.Tear/. Arra dear shoy, I carried the horse and themiboth, besides a big loaf, and two bottles of wine ; for Iput the old horse on my back, and drove the potatoes'before me, and when I tied the load to the loaf, I hadjnothing to do but to carry the bottle in my hand : but:had luck to the way as 1 came home, for a nail out of;the heal of my foot sprung a leak in my brogue, whichpricked the very bone, bruised the skin, and made mybrogue itself to blood, and I having no hammer by me,but a hatchet 1 left at home, I had to beat down thenail with the bottom of the bottle : and by the book,dear shoy, it broke to pieces, and scattered the wine inmy mouth.Tom. And how did you recompense your master lortiie loss of the bottle of wine ?Teng. Arra dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himand myself too, for I took the bottle to a blacksmith,and desired him to mend it that I might go to the but¬cher and get it full of bloody water, but he told me hecould not work in any thing but steel and iron. Arra,said I, if I were in my own kingdom, 1 could get ablacksmith who would make a bottle out of a stone, anda stone out of nothing.Tom. And how did you trick your master out of it ? nTeag. Why the old rogue began to chide me, askingme what way I broke it, then I held up the other ashigh as my head, arid let it fail to the ground on a stone,which broke it all in pieces likewise : now said I, mas¬ter, that’s the wav, and he beat me very heartily unul1 had to si out out mercy and murder all at once,9Tom. Why tlitl you not leave him when he used you! !jo badly.Teat;. Arra, dear shov, I could never think to leaveim while i could eat, he gave me so many good vio. uals, and promised to prefer me to be his own bone-ticker. But by shaint Patrick, I had to run awayvith my life or all was done, else I had lost my dearlioul and body too by him, and then come home muchoorer than 1 went away. The great big bitch dog,,’hieh was my master’s best beloved, put his head intopitcher, to lick out some milk, and when it was in heould not get it out; and 1 to save the pitcher got theatchet and cut off the dog’s head, and then l had toreak the pitcher to get out the head ; by this 1 lostp oth the dog and the pitcher. My master hearing ofj his swore he would cut the head off me, for the poor|og was made useless, and could not see to follow anvody for want of his eyes. And when I heard of this,ran away with my own head, for if 1 had wanted ithad lost my eyes too, then 1 would not have seen thead to Port Patrick, through Glen-nap; but by shaintatriek I came home alive hi spite of them.Tom. O : arely done, Paddy, you behaved like alan ! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleear always by saint Patrick ?Yea//. Arra dear honey, he was the best shaint inhe world, the father of all good people in the kingdom,e has a great kindness for an Irishman, when he hearsim calling on his name.Tom. But, Paddy, is saint Patrick yet alive ?Teay. Arra dear honey, 1 dont know whether he beead or alive, but it is a long time since they killed him;be people all turned heathens, but he would not changeiijiis profession, and was going to run the country with it,End for taking the gospel away to England, so theBarbarous lories of Dublin cutted off his head ; and heiljwiinmed over to England, ami carried his head in hislUeeth.JOFART IIToni. How did you get safe out of Scotland ?Tea/). By the law dear honey, when I came to PortPatrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew I was saleat home, but I was clean decid, and almost drowned be¬fore I could get riding over the water; for I with ninepassengers more, leapt into a little young boat, havingbut four men dwelling in a little house, in the one endof it, which was all thacked with deals: and after they*laid pulled up her tether-stick, and laid her long halttlover her mane, they pulled up a long sheet, like threipair of blankets, to the riggen of the house, and the windblew in that, which made her gallop up one hill anddown another, till I thought she would have run to theworld’s end.Tom. Well Paddy, and where did you go when yoicame to Ireland again ?Teag. Arra dear honey, and where did I go but tomy own dear cousin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the old buck his father; who died but a fewweeks before I went over, and the parish had to burylum out of pity, it did not cost him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment did you get there ? iTeag. O my dear shoy, I was kindly used as anothei jgentleman, and would have staid there long enough, binwhen a man is poor his friends think little of him: 1 tolohim I was going to see my brother Harry : Harry, sainlie, Harry is dead ; dead said I, and who killed him f.Why, said he, death : Allelieu, dear honey, and when jdid he kill him ? said I. In his bed, says he. Am jdear honey, said I, if he had been upon Newry moan- itains with his brogues on, and his broad sword by hi:side, all the death’s in Ireland had not have killed him iO that impudent fellow death, if he hail let him alo><till he died for want of butter milk and potatoes, I mesure he had lived all the days of his life.Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you neve:see none of your countrymen to inform you of whathappened at home concerning your relations •*Tuan. Arra, dear shny, 1 saw none but Tom Jack,one day in the street; but when I came to him, it wasnot him, but one just like him.Torn. On what account did you go a travelling ?Tetuj. Why a recreating sergeant listed me to be acaptain, and after all advanced me no higher than asoldier itself, but only he called me his dear countrymanrecruit; for I did not know what the regiment waswhen I saw them. I thought they were all gentle¬men’s sons, and collegioners, when I saw a box like abibie upon their bellies; until I saw G for King Georgeupon it, and R for God bless him: ho, ho, said I, Ishan’t be long here.Tom. O then Paddy you deserted from them ?Teacj. That’s what I did, and ran to the mountainslike a buck, and ever since when I see any soldiers 1close my eyes, lest they should look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you when you was asoldier ?Teorj. Arra, dear honey, I killerf a man.Tom. And how did you do that ?Ternj. Arra, dear honey, when he dropt his sword Idrew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and thencutted off his foot.Tom. O then what a big foolought first to have cut off Ids head.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore I engaged him, else I had not done it.Tom. O then Paddy you acted like a fool: but youare not such a big fool as many take you to be, youmight pass for a philosopher.Tenrj. A fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher, be¬sides he was a man under great authority by law, con¬demning the just and clearing the guilty. Do you knowhow they call the horse’s mother?Toni, Why they call her a mare.was you ; tor youTeng. A mare, ay, very well minded, my father wasa mare in Cork.I'om. And what riches was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Teag. A bad luck to her own barren belly, for sitelived in great plenty, and died in great poverty; devouredup all or she died but two hens, and a pockful of potatoes,a poor estate for an Irish gentleman, in faith.Tnm. And what did you make of the hens, andpotatoes, did you sow them ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I sowed them in my bellv,and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What business did your mother' follow after ?Teag. Greatly in the merchant, way.Tom. And what sort of goods did sire deal in ?Teny. Dear honey, she went through the country andcold small fishes, onions and apples, bought liens andfp<rs and then hatched them herself. 1 remember of annlong-necked cock sbe had, of an oversea brood, thatstood on the midden and picked all the stars out of thenorth-west, so they were never so thick there since.Turn. Now Paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all; but isthere none of that cock’s offspring alive now.Img. Arra, dear shoy, 1 don’t think there are, butit is a pity but they bad, for they would fly with peopleabove the sea, which would put the use of ships out offashion, and nobody be drowned at all.Yb//i. Very well Paddy, hut in all your travels didvon ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wicked wife too,and my dear shoy, I can’t tell whether sbe is gone toPurgatory, or the parish of Pig-Lrautrum; for sire toldme she should cer tainly die the first opportunity she:jcould get, as this present evil world was not worth:]the waiting on, so she would go and see what goodt ilings is in the world to come; so when that old rovecalled the Fever came raging over the whole kingdom,she went away and died out of spite, leaving me nothiii|but two motherless children.1 Tom. O but Paddy, you ought to have gone to aioctor, and got some pills and physic lor her.Tear). By sliaint Patrick, I had as good a pill of myii iiwn as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what I mean; youj Might to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse, andlet blood of her if he thought it needful.1 Teag. Yes that's what I did, for I ran to the doctor; Whenever she died, and sought something for a dead 01|iying woman; the old foolish devil was at his dimiei.und began to ask me some dirty questions, which 1 an¬swered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ask Paddy ?J'eag. Why, he asked me. How did my wife go tostool r1 to which I answered, the same way that otheri jeople go to a chair: no, said he, that's not what 1si mean, how does she purge? Ana, Air. Doctor, said1, all the fire in Purgatory wont purge her clean; forUhe has both a cold and stinking breath. Sir, said he,) that is not what 1 ask you ; whether does she shit thicklor thin ? Arra, Mr. Doctor, said 1, it is sometimes so|fthick and hard, that yon may take it in your hand, andcut it like a piece of cheese, or pudding, and at othertimes you may drink it, or sup it with a spoon. Atthis he flew into a most terrible rage, and kicked mei down stairs, and would give me nothing to her, butcalled me a dirty vagabond tor speaking of shit beloreI ladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your wifewhen she died.Teag. O my dear shoy she was buried in all mannerof pomp, pride, and splendour; a fine coffin with cordsin it, and within the coflin along with herself, she got apair of new brogues, a penny candle, a good hard-headedold hammer, with an liish sixpenny piece, to pay herpassage at the gate, and what more could she look tor.'J'om. 1 really think you gave her enough along withher, but you ought to have cried for her, if it was nomore but to he in the fashion.14Tmtj, And why .should I cry without sorrow ? whenwe hired two criers to cry all the way before her tokeeji ,her in :he fashion.I'oiii. Ami what do they cry before a dead woman PTeag. Why they cry the coimnon cry, or funeraljhunt nt that is used in our Irish country.fom. And what manner of cry is that Paddy ?2mg. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I"ll tell you, when■my person dies, there is a number of criers goes before,.saying, Luff, fuff, fou, alletieu, dear honey, what aileth ,thee to die ! it was not for want of good buttermilk audi ipotatoes. IPART III.Tom. Vv EiX Paddy, and what did you do when yourwife died ?2 eng. Dear honey, what would I do? Jo you think Iwas such a big Fool as to die too, I am sure if I had Iwould not have got fair play when 1 am not so old yet .as my father was when he died.Tom. No, Paddy, it is not that I mean, was yousorry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I would notweep, nor yet be sorry, suppose my own mother and allthe women in Ireland had died seven years before I wasborn.Tom. V'. fiat did you do with your children when shedied ?2'eng. Do you imagine I was such a big fool as burymy children alive along with a dead woman; Ana, dearhoney, we always commonly give nothing along with adead person, but an old shirt, a winding sheet, a big ■hammer, with a long candle, and an Irish silver three¬penny piece ?Tom. Dear Paddy, and what do they make of allthese things ? 12'eag. Then Tom, since you are so inquisitive, youmust go ask the Priest.Tom. What did you make of your children Paddy PTewj. And what bhould I nmke of them, do youmagine tliat 1 should give them into the hands of the.;j(Utellers, as they had been a parcel of young hogs : byI' haint Patrick 1 had more umiaturalily in me, than toit mt them in an hospital as others do.I Tom. No, I suppose you would leave them with yourfriends ?| Tecuj. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is sometimes worselihan a profest enemy, the best friend I ever had in thei jvorld was my own pocket while my money lasted ; hut|| left two babes between the priest’s door and the parishhurch, because I thought it was a place of mercy, andhen set out for England in quest of another fortune.Tom. I fancy, Paddy, you came off with what theyall a moon-shine flitting.Toag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not see sun,oon, nor stars, all the night then : for I set out fromork at the dawn of night, and I had travelled twentylies all hut twelve, before gloaming in the morning.Tom. And where did you go to take shipping ?Tpakj. Ana, dear honey, I came to a country villageailed Dublin, as big a city as any market-town in allEngland, where I got myself aboard of a little youngnat, with a parcel of fellows, and a long leather bag.supposed them to be tinklers, until I asked what theyarried in that leather sack ; they told me it was theEnglish mail they were going over with; then said I, ishe milns so scant in England, that they must send over4 heir corn to Ireland to grind it, the comical cunning’ellows persuaded me it was so: then I went down to adttle house below the water,‘hard by the rigg-back oftbe boat, and laid me down on their leather sack, wherei I slept myself almost to death with hunger. And deari Tom to tell you plainly when I waked 1 did not know1 where I was, but thought I was dead and buried, for Il found nothing all round me but wooden walls and timberC above.Tom. And how did you come to yourself to knowwhere you was at last.T<vuj. T5y tlte law, dear shov, I soratidied inv ht'.'iil ,in a luindied parts, and then set me down to think upimit, so I minded it was my wife that was dead and notme, and that 1 was alive in the young boat, with thefellows that carries over the English meal from the Irishmilns.Tom. O then Paddy, I am snre you was glad whenyou found yourself alive ?Tuag. Arra, dear shoy, I was very sure I was alive,,hut I did not think to live long, so 1 thought it wasbetter lor me to steal and be hanged, than to live all my.jdays and die directly with hunger at. last.Tom. Had you no meat nor money along with you ?Teay. Arra, dear shoy, 1 gave all the money to thecaptain of the house, or gudeman of the ship, to take meinto the sea or over to England, and when I was like toeat my old brogues for want of victuals I drew my, 'hanger and cut the lock of the leather sack to get a lickof their meal; but allelieu, dear slioy, 1 found neithermeal nor seeds, but a parcel of papers and letters—apoor morsel lor a hungry man.Tom. O then paddy you laid down your honesty fornothing.Tmg. Ay, ay, I was a great theif but got nothing to :steal.I'om. Ami how did von get victuals at last?Teag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meat amlidrink, death and life, and every thing else was out oilmind, 1 had not a thought hut one.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. To go down among the iishes and become a;whale; then 1 would h?ive lived at ease all my days„jhaving nothing to do hut to drink salt water, and eat.jcaller oysters.Tom. What was you like to he drowned again ?Teag. Ay, ay, drowned, as cleanly drowned as a fish,fir the sea blew very loud, and the wind ran so high,that we were all cast safe on shoie, and not one of usdrowned at all.17I got fromTom. Where did you go when you came on shore ?Tuny. Ana, dear honey, 1 was not able to go anv'here, you might cast a knot on my belly, I was so1 ollow in the middle, so I went into a gentleman’s houserid told him the bad fortune I had of being’ drownedetween Ireland and the foot of his garden; where weline all safe ashore. But all the comfortim was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that Paddy ?Teag. Why he told me, if I had been a good boy atme, I needed not to have gone so far to push my for-ne with an empty pocket; to which I answered, andI hat magnifies that, as long as 1 am a good workmanno trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Paddy, the gentleman would makeou dine with him ?Tray. I really thought I was, when I saw them| lasting and skinning so many black chickens which wasithing but a few dead crows they were going to cat;j, ho, said 1, them is but dry meat at the best, of allle fowls that flee, commend me to the wing of an ox :t all that came to my share was a piece of boiled her-ng and a roasted potatoe, that was the first bit of breadever eat in bhiiilarid.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you followfter in England when you was so poor.Teag. What sir, do you imagine l was poor when lme over on such an honourable occasion as to list, andling myself to no preferment at all. As I was an ableadied man in the face, I thought to be made a brigadeer,grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, or even one of them blewowns that holds the berry' stick to the bung-hole of theig cannons, when they let them off, to fright away thei'rench ; I was as sure .as no man alive ere I came fromCork, the least preferment I could get, was to be rid-g-master to a regiment of marines, or one of the blackorse itself.Tom. And where in England was it von listed ?Teay. Ana, dear shoy, 1 was going through thatlittle country village, tlie famous city of Chester, thestreets were very sore by reason of the hardness of myfeet, and lameness of my brogues, so I went but veryslowly across the streets, from port to port is a prettylong way, but I being weary thought nothing of it; thenthe people came all crowding to me as I had been aworld’s wonder, or tlie wandering jew; for the rain blewin my face, and the wind wetted all my belly, whichcaused me to turn the backside of my coat, before, andmy buttons behind, which was a good safegnurd to mybody, and the starvation of my naked body, for 1 bad not ’a good shirt.Tom. I am sure then, Paddy, they would take you | rfor a fool ? f 'Teag. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdom, j ,for I always turned my buttons before, when the windblew behind, but I wondered bow the people knew my ,name and where I came from: for every one told another,that was Paddy from Cork: 1 suppose they knew my ’face by seeing iny name in the newspapers.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did you follow inChester ?Tea). To be sure I was not idle, working at nothingat all, till adecruiting seargeant came to town with twoor three fellows along with him, one heating on a fiddle,!1 11and another playing on a drum, tossing their airs thro’ It he streets, as if they were going to be married. I sawthem courting none but young men; so to bring myself !to no preferment at all, 1 listed for a soldier,—1 was toobig for a grandedeer.7'om. What listing money did you get, Paddy ?Tea). Arra, dear slioy, I got five thirteens and a pairof English brogues ; the guinea and the rest of the gold Bwas sent to London, to the King, my master, to buy Itme new shirts, a cockade, and common treasing for my jhhat, they made me swear the malicious oath of devilrie Jragainst the King, the colours, and my captain, telling nme if ever I desert, and not rim away, that I should be Ishot, and then whipt to death through the regiment. !IOTe.ag. Arra, r’ear slioy, it is all nne tliinsr at last, lint_ . is best to be shot and then whipt, the cleverest way1 io die I’ll warrant you.| Tom. How much pay did you get, Paddy ?{ Teacj. Do you know the little tall fat seargeant that! ml me to be a soldier '?51 Tom. And how should I know them I never saw yon|X)1.Tencj. Dear shoy, you may know him whether youe him nr not, his face is all bored in holes with the.in all pox, nis nose is the colour of a lobster-toe, andis chin like a well washen potatoe, he’s the biggestigue in our kingdom, you’ll know’ him when you meetiin again : the rogue height me sixpence a day, kill orkill: and when I laid Sunday and Saturday botligether, and all the days in one day, I can’t make aenny above fivepence of it.7bm. You should have kept an account, and askedour arrears once a month.lenq. That’s what I did, but he reads a paternosterlot of his prayer book, wherein all our names are written;much for a stop-hold to my gun, to bucklers, to aiair of comical ham-hose, with leather buttons from toptoe ; and worst of all, he would have no less than asnny a w’eek, to a doctor; arra, said I, I never hadsore finger, nor yet a sick toe, ail the days of my life,en what have I to do with the doctor, or the doctordo with me.Tom,. And did he make yon pay all these things ?Ten/}. Ay, ay, pay and better pay: he took me beforeis captain, who made me pay all was in his book,vrra, master captain, said I, you are a comical sort ofJ, fellow now, you might as well make me pay for myiloflin before I he dead, as to pay for a doctor before "l"■ e sick ; to which lie answered in a passion, sir, said he,have seen many a better man buried without a coffin::r, said I, then I’ll have a coffin, die when 1 will, if20tl ere he as much wood hi all the world, or l shall notbe buried at all. Then lie called for the sergeant, say- 5mg, you sir, go and buy that man’s coffin, and put it in -tlie store till lie die, and stop sixpence a week of his pay ■:for it: No, no, sir, said 1, I’ll rather die without a coffin, i'and seek none when I’m dead, but if you are for clipping iianother six}ience off my pay, keep it all to yourself, and! \I’ll swear all your oaths of agreement we had back again, 1and then seek soldiers where you will.Tom. O then Paddy, how did you end the matter ? |Tearj. An a, dear shoy, by the nights of shaint Patrick :and help of my brogues, I both ended it, and mended it,for the next night before that, I gave them leg hail fiirmy fidelity, and went about the country a fortune-teller,dumb and deaf as I was not.Tom. How old was you Paddy when you was a soldier :Last ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all but ,two, and it is only two years since, so 1 want only four jyears of three dozen yet, and when 1 live six dozen nioreJ *i’ll be older than I am, I’ll warrant you.Tntn. O but Paddy, by your account, you are threedozen of years old already.Tog. O what for a big fool are you now Tom, when ,you count the years I lay sick; which time 1 count notime at all.A NEW CATECHISM, &c.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religion tell menow, Paddy, of what profession art thou ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carry out of mine own country : I was afraid!that you English Presbyterians should pluck it away fromme. :iTom. What, Paddy, was your religion such a load >j'.hat you could not carry it idong with you ?7ferry. Yes, that it was, but 1 carried it always about ijwith mp when at home my sweet cross upon my dear ubreast, bound to my dear bulton hole.21Tmn. ami what maimer of worship did you perforinthat PTeay. Why I adored the eross, the pope, and theriest, cursed Oliver as black as crow, and swears my -If a cut throat against all Protestants and church ofnglandmeii.Tom. And what is the matter but you would be aj urch of Englandman, or a Scotch Presbyterian your-If, Paddy PTeny. Because it is unnatural for an Irishman: bir1d shaint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I had been theme.Tom. And for what reason would you be a Presbvrian then, Paddy PTeay. Because they have liberty to eat tiesh in lent,d every thing lhat’s fit for the belly.Tom. What, Paddy, are you such a lover of liesh thatij >u would change your profession for it PI Teay. O yes, that’s what 1 would, 1 love flesh of allids, sheep’s beef, swine’s mutton, hare’s flesh, andn’s venison ; but our religion is one of the hungriest inlit the world, ah ! but it makes mv teeth to weep, andy belly to water, when I see the Scotch Presbyterians,d English churchmen, in time of lent, feeding upon11s’ bastards, and sheep’s young children.Tom. Why Paddy, do you say the hull is a fornicatord gets bastards PTeay. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow and hersband all the days of my life, nor before 1 was bora,ing to the church to be married, and what then canj sons and daughters he hut bastards PTom. What reward will yon get when you are dead;' punishing your belly so while you are alive PTerty. By shaint Patrick I’ll live like a king whenm dead, for 1 will neither pay for meat nor drink.Tom. \\ hat, Paddy, do you think that you are tome alive again when you are dead PTeny. O yes, we that are true Roman Catholicsill live a long time after we are dead: when we dufn love with the Priests, and the good people of rmi}profession.Tom. And what assurance can your priest give yo^of that ?Tmx). AiTa, dear shoy, our priest is a great shaiptla good shoul, who can repeat a pater-noster and AvdMaria, which will fright the very horned devil himself,,and make him run for it, until he be like to fall andbreak his neck.Tom. And what does he give you when you are dyingthat makes you come alive again ?Teay. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues, seal#ed with a wafer, gives us a sacrament in our mouth, with <a pardon, and direction in our right hand, who to call foriat the ports of Purgatory. ^ ''Jam. And what money design you to give the priesttor your pardon ?Teay. Dear shpy I wish I had first the money he *would take for it, I would rather drink it myself, angthen give him both my bill and my honest word, payable 1in the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a passage to theother world, or who is to carry you there ?Teay. O my dear shoy, Torn, you know nothing osthe matter: for when I die, they will bury my body,llesh, blood, dirt, and hones, only iny skin will he blownup full of wind and spirit, my dear shoul I mean; anijthen I will he blown over to the other world on thewin«rs of the wind : and after that Pll never be killeii tbanged nor drowned, nor yet die in my bed, for whenany hits me a blow, my new body will play buff upon ilike a bladder.Tom. But what way will yon go to the new worldor where is it ?Teay. Aria, dear shoy, the priest knows where it i jbut I do not, but ,he Pope of Rome keeps the outerfport, shaint Patrick the inner-port, mid give* us a direc¬tion of the way to shaint Patrick’s palace, which stand23>ri the head of the Stalian loch, where I’ll have no more:o do but chap at the gate.7'om. What is file need for chapping at the gate, ist not always open ?To/nj. Dear shoy, yon know little about it, for theres none can enter but red hot Irishmen, for when 1 callllelien, dear honey, shaint Patrick countenance youriwn dear countryman if yon will, then the gates will bepened directly for the, for he knows and loves an Irish-nan’s voice, as be loves his own heart.Tom. And what entertainment will you get when you> in PTr.orj. 0 mv dear, we are all kept there untill a generalevi’ew, which is commonly once iti the week ; and thenve are drawn np like as many young recruits, and allhe hlackgaurd scoundrels is pict out of the ranks, andme half of them is sent away to the Elysian fields, tourry the weeds from among the potatoes, the other halfif them to the River sticks, to catch fishes for shaint’atricks table, and them that is owing the priests anyuoney is put in the black-hole, and then given to thelands of a great black hitch of a devil, which is keepedor a hangman, who whips them np and down the smokyungeon every morning for six months.Tom. Well Paddy, are you to do as much justice toProtestant as a Papist PTeag. O my dear shoy, the most justice we are com¬manded to do a Protestant, is to whip and torment themmtil they confess themselves in the Romish faith ; andhen cut their throats that they may die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at present ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor andny supplication is as follows.paddy’s humble petition, on supplication.|?OOD Christian people, behold me a man ! who has corn’dthrough a world of wonders, a hell full of hardships,langers by sea, and dangers by land, and vet I am alive;sorrows. Oh ! oh ! oh ! good people. I was a manin my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty of the :silver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter, thebeer, beef, and biscuit. And now I have nothing:being taken by the Turks and relieved by the Spaniards,lay sixty-six days at the siege of Gibralter, and gotnothing to eat but sea wreck and raw mussels ; put tosea for our safety, cast upon the Barbarian coast, amongthe wicked Aluerines, where we were taken and tiedwith tugs and tadders, horse-locks, and cow-chains :then cut and castcate yard and testicle (juite away, putin your hand and feel how every female’s made smoothby the sheer bone, where nothing is to be seen but whatis natural. Then made our escape to the desart wild *wilderness of Arabia; where we lived among the wildasses, upon wind, sand, and sapless ling. Afterwardsput to sea in the hull of an old house, where we weretossed above and below the clouds, being driven through ;thickets and groves by tierce, coarse, calm, and contrarywinds: at last, was cast upon Salisbury plains, where :our vessel was dashed to pieces against a cabbage stock.And now my humble petition to you, good Christian,people is, for one hundred of your beef, one bundled ofyour butter, anothe" ~t’   | 'c -m-cciut, a tun of yourni your wine, a luma few of your half-j.Hitter-milk, a pairshoes, even a chaw