%./I O M >1 wi. cFORETERNAL LIFE.\iVio V.vMBEING anviava ifairiw3 p,i A2|' 'a'/o all Slothful People.A SERMON,£inJ 0311:5m oyp 1 Corin. ix. 24.—So run that ye may obtainiFrom the Heavenly Footman.p-pr*»BY THE REY. JQHN BUNYAIfvr.ut otf .rALSO)/or':5QI e’nsm « Oit nsiTci ^te phi.7jc Misery of Uncharitable Persons.ei nw no'? ;aurg oo t3i ir.tj,9*1* eo'to'v 4»rij a* bnrt oh I anhioob sdTroi *c*i: i tn^vBsrI svr.r! Uiw Jsrlj • aid] aiJzuw ;» .'sari svpri liiw JKrfi pdj >5 4vfia Ilou l* A\on ii baart pt uqv votKILMARNOCK. ISijta aov At yyjnitw uoy u ij-.« ttisyBsd eiPrinted Ljj H. Crawford, B^Pcsdlt r,--? 9r?j Ipig22. w VtW shias n|T. OF SOOT LA RC 4S E R M O N.1 Cor. ix. 24-.So run that ye may obtain.HEAVEN is that which every one desirettyet but very few do obtain that glory. Maneminent professors drop short of a welcome frorGod into this pleasant place: therefore, sit nc ,still, and wish for heaven, but run for it—so ruithat ye may obtain. As if the Apostle should saysome, because they would not lose their souhbegin to run betimes, apace, with patience, thright way : do you so run. Some run from friendand companions, and this that they may have thcrown: do you so run. Some run through gocreport and evil report, that they may win tfpearl: do you so run. So run that ye may o'tain.These words are taken from men’s running fta wager : a very apt similitude to set before tlsaints ; know you not that they who run in a rac:-.1! k.i* tnriTP ? Kn run thrun all, but one obtaineth the prize ? So run thyou may obtain. That is, be sure you win as w<as run.The doctrine I do find in the words of the tefis this : they that will have heaven, must runit: I say, “ they that will have heaven must nfor it.” 1 beseech you to heed.it well. The pri.is heaven, and if you will have it, you must rfor it. You have another scripture, Heb. xii. Ius lay aside every weight, jmd the sin which do-si go easily beset us, and let us run with patiencethe race set before us. Again, says Paul, I sorun, not as uncertainly, so fight I, &c.But observe (1.) That this running is to be un¬derstood of the swiftest sort of running, called afleeing; that we might have strong consolation,who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hopeiset before us, Heb. vi. It is taken from that ofJosh. xx. concerning the man that was to flee tothe city of refuge, when the avenger of blood washard at his heels, therefore it is a running for one’slife; a running with ail might and main.(?.) This running is called a pressing, “ presstowards the mark,” Phil. iii. 14. which signifiesihey that will have heaven, must not stick at any' ilifficulties, but press, crowd, and thrust throughmil that may stand between heaven and their souls,po run.f (3.) This running is called, in another place, ajilontinuing in the way of life. If you continue iniihe faith grounded and settled, and be not movedway, Col. i. 23. not to run a little now and then,jly fits and starts, or half way, or aleiost thither;;i|»ut to run for my life, and to continue to the endI f the race, which must be to the end of my life.Vl'irst, because many run, yea, run far too, who yetliss of the crov/n, that stands at the end of the.ice. You know, that all who run in a race, dolot win; and so it is here. What, do you thinkiaat every professor will have heaven ? What,ryery lazy one, that scarce runneth so fast heaven-itard, as a snail creepeth on the ground ? 2. Be-aiuse the man that runs, if he does not obtaine prize, loses his labour. And ah I how many*1ch runners will there be found at the day ofjudgment I Multitudes come to heaven’s gates,and there stand crying, Lord, Lord, when theyhave nothing but rebtikes for their pains: departfrom me! you come too late—you run too laeily—the door is shut. O sad state of these that runand miss ! Therefore, if you will have heaven, youmust run for it —“ So run that you may obtain.”3. Because the way is long; there is muchwork to do: there are many steps to be taken bythose that intend to be saved. Out of Egypt thoumust run a long journey through the vast wilderness, before thou come to the land of promise.(4.) They that will go to heaven must ryn foilit; because, as the way is long, so time, in which ,they are to get at the end of it, is very uncertain.^When death comes, away thou must go, whetherthou art provided or not; and therefore look to it| jit is not good dallying with the salvation or damnation of thy soul.(5.) They that will have heaven, must run fotit; because the devil folioweth them. He goetabout, seeking whom he may devour, and I willassure you, the devil is nimble; he can run apacehe has overtaken many, turned up their heels, an<oiven them an everlasting fall. Hell also haswide mouth : it can stretch itself farther than ypiare aware of : and as the angel said to Lot, Lopnot behind thee, neither tarry thou in all the plainjest thou be consumed : so say I to thee, Talcheed, tarry not, lest the devil, hell, death, anthe fearful curses of the law overtake thee, apithrow thee down in the midst of thy sins, so a;never to rise again. If this were well considereofthen thou, as well as I, wouldst say, They twill have heaven, must run for it.p;'l(6.) They must run for it; because, perchance,rthe gates of heaven may be shut shortly. “ I shutand no man can open*.” says Christ. If you shouldcome but one quarter of an hour too late, I tellIthee, it will cost thee an eternity to bewail thyimisery in. Francis Spira can tell thee, what it isito stay till the gates of mercy be quite shut; orito run so lazily, that they be shut before thou getwithin them. What, to be shut out! What, outf of heaven ! Sinner, rather than lose it, run for it.Lastly, So run that thou mayest obtain •, be¬cause, if thou lose, thou loscst soul, Christ, andi d heaven, &c. Besides, thou layest thyself openIf to the shame and reproach that God, Christ,iii saints, &c. can lay upon thee. All that go bywill begin to mock at thee, saying, This man be¬gan to run well, but was not able to finish.DIRECTIONS.I. If thou wouldst so run, as to obtain the[f!^| kingdom of leaven, get into the way. It is notsimply the runner, nor yet the hasty runner, thatwinneth the crown, unless he be in the way thatleads thereto. There is a great running to andfro, and yet every one is for his life, his soul. Ifi| you say, Which is the way ? Jesus says, “ I amII the way,” &c. So then, thy business is, (if thouwouldst have salvation) to see if thou art plantedin him^ hast faith in him, so as to make a life outof him, and to conform thee to him. For theLord’s sake, take heed. Do not think, thou artin the way upon too slight grounds: for if thou6;uiss the way, thou wilt miss the prize, and lose ,thy soul. Mistrust thy own strength: down on .thy knees in prayer to the Lord, for the Spirit oftruth: search the word for direction; flee seduc- •era; keep company with the Christians that have tmost experience of Christ; have a care of relyingon outward obedience.Dm. II. Be much in studying the way; what *Christ is: what he has done ; why he is; why he .has done what is done; and what he does in hea¬ven. Be thinking also of those places to whichthou must not come near. Avoid such things asare expressly forbidden in the word of God.——“ Withdraw thy foot from her, for her steps takehold of hell, Prov. v. And so of every thing that -is not in the way. So run.Dm. III. Strip thyself of those things that mayhinder thee in the way to heaven; as covetous- rness, pride, lust, or whatever else thy heart maybe inclined unto, which may hinder thee in thisheavenly race. Men, that run for a wager, donot incumber themselves. Every man that striv-eth for the mastery, is temperate in ail things. Itis but a vain thing to talk of goir# to heaven, if -thou let thy heart be incumbered with those thingsthat would hinder.Dm. IV. “ Beware of hye-paths:” take heedof all crooked paths that lead to damnation. Someof them are dangerous because of practice, somebecause of opinion. But look right before thee ;ponder the path of thy feet; turn not to the righthand, uqt to the left; remove thy foot far fromevil. This counsel not being taken, is the reasonof that reeling this way and that way, and so mis¬sing the way to the kingdom. The way to hea-r——. ym-''7:ien is hard to be kept in. Yet, as thfe harlot’s•‘l ouse at Jericho was known by one scarlet thread,b streams of Christ’s Wood run throughout the7ay to heaven: mind that, have boldness to enterInto the holiest by the blood of JesuS.Dir. V. “ Do not look too high.” If thou be(Tying over much into God’s secret decrees, thounayest stumble and fall, as many hundreds havelone.Dir. VI. ‘f Have not an ear open to every oneijrahat calleth after you.” If men run for some■;reat matter, they say, I am running for a wager;f I win, I am made: if I lose, I am undone::>iiiiuder me not. Thus shouldst thou do, and thoui lbast more cause than they : for as much as theyirun but for things that last not; but thou, for anincorruptible glory. I give thee notice of this,ntnowing that thou shall have enough to cal! afteri chee, even the devil, sin, pleasures, profits, ease,ipride, &c. one crying, Stay for me; the otherj saying, Do not leave me: and a third, Take meitiilong with you. Let not thine ear be opened fortj such sink-sculs. You know what it cost the youngsman that was enticed by a harlot, Prov. vii. Manyustrong men have been slain; that is, kept out ofsheaven by her. Soul, take this counsel and say,4Satan, sin, pleasures, profit, &c. let me alone:fi^tand off: come not nigh me; for I am runningfor heaven, for my son!, for God; for Christ; fromnhell and everlasting damnation. If I win, I winllill; and if I lose, I lose all; let me alone. Sourun. - o; nigud oi laUfi/jjI Dm. VII. Be not daunted, though thou meet-est with ever so many discouragements in thyjourney. Encourage thyself with the tender.8heartedness of Christ, the merits of his blood, thefirfeeness of his invitations to come in. If thesebe not thy meditations,: thou wilt draw very hea¬vily, if thou do not give up all for lost, and so 'knock off from following any farther.Dm. VIII. Take heed of being offended at the icross, that thou must go by. If thou art in theway to the kingdom, my soul for thine, thou wiltcome at the cross shortly The Lord grant thoudost not shrink at it, so as to turn thee backagain. The cross stands as a way-mark to. hea¬ven, thou must go close by it; nay, thou musttake it up, or else thou wilt quickly get out of theway that leads to heaven, and turn aside to someof those creoked lines, that lead down to the cham¬bers of death.The cross is known in the doctrine of jus¬tification. It stretches every vein in a man’s heart,to be willing, in the very midst of the sense of hissins, to throw himself wholly upon the righteous¬ness of another. (2 ) In the doctrine of mortifi¬cation. Is it nothing for a man to lay hands on this darling sins, that stick as close to him as thefiesh does to the bone ? If this were an easy mat¬ter, what need of these prayers, sighs, watch¬ings ? Nay, do you not see that some men, be¬fore they will set about this work, they will even rventure the loss of heaven, Christ and all i I as¬sure you, to cut off right hands, and pluck out.right eyes, is no pleasure, to the flesh. (3.) In itthe doctrine ot perseverance. It is no greatmatter to begin to look for heaven, to begin toseek the Lord, to begin to shun sin, and to hateiniquity: but it is a very great matter to con¬tinue with God’s approbation. My servant Caleb,9says God, has followed me,. h‘e has c&n^inuaiVfollowed me fully •, he shall possess the land,1 *fJnmb. xiv. S-t.' Almost all the many thousandsof the children of Israel fell short of perseverancei when they walked from Egypt towards the landi of Canaan. Indeed, they went, to the work atfirst pretty willingly, but they were quickly out> Of breath. It is an easy matter for a man to rur.| mile or two: O but to hold out for a thousandi ftlililes! he that does this must look to meet with'! the-cross. Perseverance is a very great part o'-I the cross. I could point out many, that after theVhad followed the ways of God three or four years,ifj have been beat out of wind, have taken up theiri lodgings and rest, before they have got half wayto heaven; some in this, and some in that sin jtl and have secretly, nay, sometimes openly said,: The way is too strait, the race too long, the re¬ligion too holy, I can go no farther. It is th'ecross, which keeps those which are kept fromheaven. It is that which spoileth all. Some,i when they come at the cross, can go no farther :i others stumble at it, and break their necks: oth-i ers turn aside to the right hand or to the left, and;i so think to get to heaven another way. There-II fore if thou meet the cross in thy journey, in whati: manner soever it be, take courage i knowing that'I by the cross is the way to the kingdom.Dir. IX. Beg of God, that he would enlighten3 thine understanding, and inflame thy will. When•i men come to see what a heaven there is to be en->jj joyed, it will make them run through thick anda thin. When a man’s will is fully set to do a thing,li it must be a very hard matter that shall hinder thatii man from bringing about his end. Ye self-willedJtoojjie, no body knows what t<^do with j'Ott. Wc^ny. HewUl have his own willxio ali that v/e can. |■A nnm that is resolved says, 1 will do nay best toadvantage myself; I will do my worst to hindermy cnenues ; I will have it, or I will lose myhfe. Though he kill nae, yet will I trust in him.I will not Jet thee go, except thpo bless me. I■will, I will, I will; O this blessed inflamed willfor heaven] What is like it? 1 teil you the willis all ; that at is one of the cluefest things, whichturns the wheel either backwards or forwards:and God knoweth that full well, and so does thedevil, and therefore they both endeavour verymuch to strengthen the will of their servants.—God is for making,ol his a willing people to serve ;him: and the devil does what lie can to possess 1the will of those that are his, with the love of sin :and therefore when Christ comes close to the mat- •ter, he says, You will not come to me. Howoften would I have gathered you, as a hen dothher chickens, but ye would not.” O thereforecry hard to God, to inflame thy wall for heaven \and Christ. Get thy will tipt with heavenlygrace, and resolution against all discouragements, jqnd thou gpest full speed for heaven. But if thoufaulter in thy will, thou wilt run halting all theway; and also, to be sure, thou wilt fall short atlast. The Lord give thee a will and courage 1Before l take my leave of thee, let me give theea few Motives along with thee. It may be, theywill be as good as a pair of spurs, to prick on thylumpish heart in this rich voyage. (1 ) If thouwinnest, then heaven, yea, life eternal is thine j, -and if thou losest, then thy loss is heaven ; be- |tides, thou procurest eternal deatlg with the ever- » nlasting damnation of thy own soul. (2.) Deathand damnation follow after thee as hard as theycan drive, and therefore, for the Lord’s sake makehaste (3.) If they seize upon thee before thouget to the city of refuge, they will put an ever-lasting stop to thy journey.—This *lso cries, Runfor it, (i.) Now heaven’s gates, with Christ’sarms, are wide open to receive thee. This con¬sideration should make thee reach out, nnd flywith all speed. (5.) Keep thine eye upon theprize. Be sure that thine eyes be continually up-on the profit thou art like to get. The reason whymen faint in their race to heaven, Hetlr chiefly ineither of these two things: First, they do noti riously consider the worth of the prize ; they mustlose heaven for want of considering the worth cf: it. That thou mayest not do the like, keep thine!i eye much upon the comfort that is to he hadI there by those that win the prize. This made thel Apostle run through any thing, peril by sea, andj peril by land, &c. It made also others endure tobe stoned, -sawn asunder, thrown to the wildbeasts. Secondly, do not say in thy heart, Thisis too good for me; for I tell thee, heaven is pre-(J pared for all who will accept of it; therefore takei heart and run, man. (6.) Think much of themI that are gone before.—When my base heart hasif been inclining to loiter in my way towards hea-r ven, the very consideration of the glorious saintsr, and angels in Leaven, what they enjoy, how they3? would befool me, if they knew that my heart wasb drawing back, has caused me to rush forward,-ill and say to my soul, Come, soul, let us see whati this heaven is: let us even venture for it, and try1 if that will qu’t our cost. O therefore, throwAway striking lusts, follow after rightecusnesj,lovf* the Lord Jesus; I’ll warrant thee, he’ll givedice a goodly recompence. (7.) Set to work, andwhen thou hast run thyself down weary, the LordJesus will take thee up and cany thee. Is notthis enough to make any poor soul to begin hisrace ? Fathers encouraging their children say,Run, sweet babe, until thou art weary, and thenI will carry thee. He will gather the lambs withhis arm, and carry them in his bosom. Whenthey are weary, they shall ride.—Or else he willconvey new strength into thy soul, which will beas well. “ The young mee shall utterly fail, butthey that wait upon the Lord shall renew theirstrength.” Isa. xl 30,31. (8.) The.devil willlose no time, spare no pains, neither will his ser¬vants, to seek the destruction of themselves andothers ; and shall not we be as industrious for ourown salvation ? Shall the world venture the dam¬nation of their souls for a corruptible crown: andshall not we venture the loss of a few tiifles forgin eternal crown ? Shall they venture the 'oss ofeternal friends, as God to love, Christ to redeent,the Holy Spirit to comfort, heaven for habitation,saints and angels for company, and all this to hold,communion with sin, and a few drunken, lying,covetous wretches like themselves ? And shall notwe labour as hard, run as fast, seek as diligently,nay, a hundred times more diligently, for thecompany of those glorious and eternal friends ?Shall it be said at the last day, That wicked menmade more haste to hell, than you did to heaven ?O run with all might and main.Now I come to make some use and applicationof fynas hafe been said. You see that he who will:*1?i;tft113 ?0 to lie aver., must ni • for it; yea, and so ru”s I have said. WeH then,'do you so iHun. 'Ando-jv let us examine a littie Art thou i’Ot ihto thelight way ? Art thou in Chris’’:; 'righteousness'-?Search : when wast tliou turned out of thy sihp,:lnto the righteousness of Jesus Christ ? Dost thouee thyself in. him ? Is he more precious to theeban all the world ? Is thy mind always musingu in him ? Dost thou love to be talking of him, andtalking with him ? Dost *hou count all thingslifeless, empty, vain will out communion withtitri ? Does his company sweeten, atiil his ab-er.ee embitter all things ? Soul, he serious , andto not take things of such weighty concern as thelalvation or damnation -of thy soul-, without good. iround. jnsmbnsrrtrncv:l'i! (1.) Art thou unladen of pride,; pleasures, pro-tits, lusts ? What! Dost thou think to run fastenough, with thy sins and lusts in thy heart ? Ipjell thee, soul, they that have laid all aside, everyiiveight, every sin, and are got into the nimblesti iostuie, find work enough so to run as to holdi»ut.— Art thou therefore unladen of these things ?nJever talk of going to heaven, if thou art not It!j> to be feared thou wilt be found among those(many, that will seek to enter in, and shall not bedble. Oh, how should the consideration of thesei hings stir up the hearts of all to run the race setilefore them.ji| (2.) If so, what will become of them that areorown weary, before they are got half way ? Why,man, it is he that holdeth out to the end that shalle saved ; it is he that overcometh, that shall in-ierit all things; it is not every one that begins,jigrippa stept fair enough, but he stept short,—TTMethinks I have seen how these poor wretches hthat get hut almost to heaven, shall-cry out ihell, faying, I was almost a Christian, I was airoost got into the kingdom, almost out of my sin! ||almost from under the curse of God; almost, bunot altogether. O that I should be almost at hea i:ven, and should not go quite through !(3.) What will become of them, that some tirr.since were running post haste to heaven, but novare running as fast back again P Do you thin,those will ever come thither? What! to turn^back again to sin. to the world, to the lust of thi uflesh, to the devil! “ It had been better for thernot to have known the way of righteousness, thanafter they have known it, to turn from the hob tcommandment.” Those men shall be damned fo »'professing to all the world, that sin is better that-Christ; for the man that runs back again, doeas good as say, I have tried Christ, and I havttried sin, and l do not find so much profit in Chrisas in sin. O sad ! What a doom they will havewho were almost at heaven’s gates, and then rutback again ? fC If any draweth back,” says Christ j“ my soul shall have no pleasure in him.” Again,“ No man having set his hand to the plough/that is, set forward in the ways of God, “ and vlooking back,” turning back again, «•' is fit for thekingdom of heaven/’ and if not fit for the kingdom of heaven, then for certain, he must needsbe fit for the fire of hell; and therefore, those thatbring for these apostatizing fruits, as briars and >thorns, are rejected, being nigh unto cursing, :whose end is to be burned. If they shall not es¬cape that neglect, how shall they escape that re¬ject, and turn their back npon so great salvation ?i\ud if tbr righteous, that is, they that run fort, trill find work enough t.o get to heaven ^ thenwhere with the ungodly backsh ling sinner appear ?0*, if Judas the traitor, or Rr,.rci;s Syhra the b.ick-ii.hyler, were but now alive, to k b these men whatt has cost their souh for backsliding,, surely itwould stick by them.(I ) He that backslides, and he th'-t sits stilln sin, are both •in minds t}ie one will aiotkir, because he love^ his sins; the other rumsitack again, because he loves the things pi theivorjd. Is. it not the same thing: shall not the•. ame hell hold them hereafter ?|i| (3.) They that will have heaven, must run fort. This, calls'aloud to those that began but aIvliile since to run, to mend their pare, if theyfitend to win. They who come hindermost, hiveeed to run fastest. There are those that havecun ten years to thy one, and yet will say, theyjiloubt they shall come late enough. How thenlivill it be with thee ? Look to it therefore, partupeedily with all that is an hinderance to thee in■;hy journey, and so run that thou mayest obtain.] (6.) You that are old professors, take heed thatshe young striplings of Jesus, that began to tripkmt the other day, do not outrun you, so as tonave that scripture fulfilled on you, “ The firstj.hall be last, and the last first.” You that arereindmost, strive to outrun them that are beforejfou; and all you that are foremost, hold yourwound: that is the right running, for one to!)trive to outrun another.I (7.) How unlikely are they to win, that thinkbt, enough to keep company with the hindmost*f there be but any lazy, slothful, half-hearte-d T3  professors in the country, they- wiU he sure te;tahe eSsn'ple by theiii, not cbusicfermg that thehnulmost fose the prize. It cost the foolish vir1-gins cWr for coreirig too fitte. I hey that wer^ready went in with him, and the door was shutAfterwards, mark! Afterwards came the othei !yirgins, saying, Lord, Lord,* open to usl but he tanswered, depart, I know you nof. Depart, lazy ,professors, cold profeSsbrS^ slothful professors.Oh, methinks the word of Gbd is io plain ^or thtoverthrow df you lazy professors, that it is to btH;wrondered men do fake no more notice of it. Howliwas Lot’s wife served for running lazily, and fo|giving but one look behind her ? It turned her in-i.to a pillar of salt ? It made Judas hang himself 11,Yc^, it will make thee curse the day on whicfthou wast born, if thou miss the kingdom, as thou .wilt certainly do, if this be thy course.(8.) How if thou, by thy lazy running, shouldnot only destroy thyself, but be the cause of the \damnation cf some others ? He is a professor, say .they, and yet he seeks pleasures, profits, &c. and iprofesses he is going to heaven ; yea, he saitlialso, he does not fear but he shall have entertain- g.rnentr-let us therefore keep pace with him, we .shall fare no worse than he. Look to it, thou willhave strength little enough to give account of tht :loss of thy own soul: thou needest have to give,an account why thou didst stop others from en-.tefing it. How wilt thou answer that, “Yottiwould not enter in yourselves, and them that would Lyou hindered ? For that saying will be eminently Ifulfilled on them, that through their own idleness ido keep themselves out of heaven, and by giving ;others the same example, hinder them also.17(9.) I beseech you, in the name of our Lord^esus Christ, th»t none of you do run so bziiyn the way to heaven, as to hinder either your-ielves or others. If a man should venture, whenre is running for his life, to step aside out of hisvay to pick up a straw, thou wouidst condemnnim ; and dost thou not condemn thyself that dostworse, that loitereth in thy race; notwithstand-ng thy soul, heaven, glory, and all, are at stake ?iiave a care, have a care, poor wretched sinner !.avc a care. Look unto Jesus, who is not onlyhe author and finisher of faith, but who, for thetoy that was set before him, endured the cross,(•espised the shame, and is now set down at the'fight hand of God, Heb. xii. 2.4 Now, that you may be provoked to run withjoe foremost, take notice cf this. It is said, that'iOt’s wife, looking back from behind her, be-nlame a pillar of salt; and yet we do not read,.mat he did so much as once look what was be-iOme of her: Ins heart was indeed upon his jour-ppy, as well it might: there was the mountaineefore him, and the fire and brimstone behindnm; life lay at stake ; and he. had lost it, if hehd but looked behind him. Do thou so run. Iny race, remember Lot’s wife, and her doom;remember for what that doom did overtake her:) member that God made her an example for all:py runners to the end of the world; anti takeed thou fall not after the same example.] If this will not provoke thee, consider, (1.) Thyul is either to be saved or lost: thou shall notj|>e my soul by thy laziness: it is thy own soul.Ki’hat shall it profit a man, if he should gain the.Wole world, and lose his own soul ? (2.^ If thou18loss thy soul, it is thou that must bear the blame.(3.) If thou wilt not run» the people of God areresolved to leave thee behind. I* may be, thouhast a father, brother. See. going post haste toheaven; wouldst thou be willing to be left behindthem? Well then, sinner, wilt thou run? Art.thou resolved to strip, or art thou not; Then,quickly, man; delay not in this matter. Confer:not with flesh and blood. Look up to heaven,,and see how thou likest it: also to hell, of which ithou mayest understand something in my book, ucalled * The Groans of a damned soul.’ If thoujirdost not know the way, enquire at the word oEjrGod. If thou wantest company, cry for God’sSpirit. If thou wantest encouragement, entertainthe promises. But be sure thou begin betimes,get into the way, run a-pace, and hold out to the.end. And the Lord give thee a prosperous jour¬ney. Farewell.An Epistle to all slothful People.Friends,SOLOMON1 says, that “ the desire of the slothful killeth him.” No greater shame can be:fal a man, than to see that he has fooled awahis soul, and sinned away eternal life. The wa:to do it is, to b? slothful in the work of salvationSlothfulness has these two evils, to neglect thtime in which it should be getting heaven, and tbring in untimely repentance. He, who shallose his soul through slothfulness, will have nc19use to be glad thereat, when he comes to hell.1 The sluggard will not plough by reason of thedd.” Prov. xx 4. That is, he will not break> the fallow-ground of his heart, because thereust be some pains taken by him that will do it.e that is slothful in the things of th;s world, istth to set about the work he should follow—-isilling to make delays—will (bake any smallalter a sufficient excuse to keep him off from ply-Jlg his work—does his work by halves—does u-lally lose the season, in which things are to be‘ ne. And thus it is also with them that areiithful for heaven; they miss the season ofnee; and therefore they will be chid for theme. “ Thou wicked or slothful servant, out of:iine own mouth will I judge thee; thou saidst,was thus and thus,” Luke xix 22, 23. “ Where-' e then gavest not thou my money to the bank,p. Take the unprofitable servant and cast him: o outer darkness, Mat. xxv. 26, 30.What shall l say ? Time runs, and will you beIthful !■ Your souls are worth a thousand worlds,irl will you be slothful ? The curse of God hangsl|! r your heads, and will you be slothful ? Woulddr be willing to be damned for slothfulness ? Wa#grist slothful in the work of your redemption ?Ill this will not move, I tell you, God will notolslothful to damn you.(Dbj. But if I should set in, and run as youfuid have me, I must run from all my sins, andthe lova of my friends. Arts, True ; yet ifu dost not, thou wilt run into hell fire, andu art sure to lose the love of God, and-the be-: t of heaven.But surely I may begin this time enough20a year or two hence ? Ans. Hast thou any leasof thy life ? Dost thou know whether the day cgrace will last a week longer or no ? For the da kof grace is past with some, before their life is en< .ed. And if it should be so with thee, wouldnot thou say, O that I had begun to run befoithe day of grace had been past, and the gates «heaven shut against me ? But all these are thwords of a slothful spiriti Arise, man> be slotlful no longer. Set foot and heart, and all intthe way of God, and run. The crown is at tt 'end of the race. There also stands the lovinFore-runner Jesus. O therefore do not dekrjbut put in practice the words of the men of DanArise; for we have seen the land; and behohit is very good : and are yfe still V’ Do ye forbe;running, Judges xviii* 9.THEMisety of Uncharitable Persons.AS the unmerciful are cursed here, so shall thebe cursed hereafter. James ii. 13. “ Hrshall have judgment without mercy, that hatshewed no mercy*” Such as have shut up thebowels of compassion against the necessities of tlpoor, God will shut up his bow'els of compassio:against them, and let forth his fury upon thenthey shall have their portion in his plagues an •indignation, without the least drop of mercy cpity. And at the day of judgment Christ wiisay unto them, Mu. xxv 41. “ Depart from m*ye cursed, into everlasting lire, prepared for tb/evil and his angelsthere is their doom; andhy ? < For I was an hungry, and ye gave me noeat; I was thirsty, and ye give me no drink.”i dreadful sentence ! every word whereof car-eth much terror in it, and breatheth nothing butare and brimstone. What ! must they depart'om Christ, the fountain of bliss and happiness ?hd into everlasting fire ? Ah wretches ! cursedideed. For, as the Prophet speaketh, Isa. xxxiii.I. ‘ Who can dwell with devouring fire, whoIan dwell with everlasting burnings An ever-iiSting fever, or but an everlasting toothach, weremisery unspeakable. But, what are these, to:jae lying in that lake which burneth with fire andIrimstone to all eternity.The misery of uncharitable persons appearethi n this, that the wants and necessities of the poor|l.ry loud to heaven against them. God hath dealt(oountifully with thee, loading thee with his bene-mts, and hath given thee not only food and rai-Inent, things needful and necessary, but an abun¬dance, an affluency of outward things, even all(things richly to enjoy: but how many of Christ’si ministers and members are in want, not havingSphere withal to satisfy their own and cnildren’s(.hunger ? whose miseries, like the blood of Abel,'■cry unto God for vengeance against thee, saying,1: Lord, there are not a few who have enough andto spare, a liberal portion of this world’s goods,iiWith Dives they fare sumptuously every day : butllwhat are we thy wanting servants the better forjlhem ? Who of us are warmed with their fires,tor clothed with iheir raiment, or so much as par-Ikake of the crumbs of their table ? We are readydo perish with want, when they are surfeited with4Utheir abundance. Is the blessing of them that an tready to perish like to come upon them ? Wi “not thou judge them, O Lord.’ Certainly thes1bitter and lamentable complaints cry loud in thears of the Almighty, against such inhuman an 'unchristian miseries. Beware of the cry of thrpoor against you: If thou wilt not hear their crie 1unto thee, God will hear their cries against thee ■Thy mercifulness to the poor will provoke Goto reject thy most religious exercises, Prov. xx 113. ‘ Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of th 1poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not bheard. In which words Solomon hinteth to utwo things1. That unmerciful men, such as turn awa^their ears from the erv of the poor, shall fall into such miseries as will bring them to their knees1and make them cry sooner or later. Here in this1world, worldly men make many prayers, and theiireligion they hope will make amends, for their in¬humanity at least. But in the world to comethey shall follow their fellow Dives in his infer¬nal devotion.2. Though they cry, they shall not be heardwhether they cry here upon their death-beds formercy, or hereafter in hell for ease,, they shall1not be heard. A notable instance hereof we havein Dives, who though he cried not h re, yet lietried in hell, saying, Father, Abraham, havemercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dipthe tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue,,for I am tormented in this flame, Luke xvi. 24.But was he heard, was his request granted ? itwas a small request, but yet it is denied. Be¬cause he denied crumbs of bread here in this lifeto the poor, he was denied a drop of water infiell.O that all uncharitable persons would steeptheir thoughts in a serious meditation of those■jlhingb’, and as they desire lo prevent those judg¬ments which accompany all merciless men, theywould put in for a share in the mercies of themerciful, and to that end, would put on bowelsbf pity and compassion towards the wants andimiseiiesof God’s distressed ones, and stretch forthan helping hand towards their relief.EXHORTATION.It is observed, that they are richest merchantsiiand citizens who trade boldly : whereas they whoi:are fearful to adventure their goods, have butsmall returns. In like manner, it is found by ex¬perience, that such Christians as are most forward;to supply the wants of the poor, boldly adventur¬ing their goods upon the waters, do most of allrlthrive, and prosper in the world Why then willnany man be so unwise, as to lose his riches forafear of losing them ? and not rather seem to losejJthem that he may in truth find them ? these earth¬ly things are assuredly lost by keeping, and keptjjiby well bestowing them.I hope you will pardon my zeal in pressing thisilduty of charity upon you: I do assure you, it isJinot out of any design to take any thing from your-iselves, and children, but only to shew you theusurest and safest way of thriving in the world;iiand how you may entail God’s blessing upon youri nchildren, and so secure unto them the portio:which you leave them.If you be rich in this world’s goods, and be norich hi good works, talk not of yovir faith, fmthere can be no true faith without good works,James ii. 17. Neither tell me of your religion;for there can be no true religion in you, so long jas you make no conscience of this duty. Purejreligion, saith the Apostle James, chap, i.- 27.!(is this) ‘ Go visit the fatherless and widows initheir afflictions,’ and you never learned other re- jligion of us.Rich men, therefore, ought to be rich in goodworks; for God expecteth fruit answerable to theseed' which he soweth. Hath he abounded toyou in this world’s good? ? you ought thereuponto be abundant in good works towards others;your pounds are expected, where the widow’smites are accepted.FINIS.•v11 i,