THECOMPLETELETTER WRITER,\CONTAINING FORMS OFIL JE. T. T E JFI SON* i'l Tl X 1/1 t i J i CX I. 1 aBusiness, Love, §c.*STIRLING .•PRINTED FOR THE ROOKSEZT.ER&.^ttOKALN OF SCOTLAND rjv'iHTirtij'woTHECOMPJLETELETTER WRITER.THE great usefulness of Letter Writing is so wellknown, that the necessity of acquiring such an artall persons do allow. And such as are unqualifiedto convey tlieir sentiments to a friend, without athird person, know that it is their interest to becomeacquainted with what is so needful and agreeable.Had letters been kuown at the beginning of theworld, Epistolary Writing would have been as oldas love and friendship ; for, as soon as the two beganto flourish, the verbal messenger was then djopped^—the language of the heart was committed to cha¬racters that preserved it,—and secret and social in¬tercourse was rendered more free and aareeable.  Soaie of the most ancient book* were written in thismanner; and the Gospel was delivered by the HolyApostles in this way.\v#».y ;>Oa (HT HOI a^TKliM3Our bnsiness is to point out to the reader the me¬thod in which this art could be best obtained; andthat is by imitating select examples of this species ofwriting, suitable to the most common as well as im¬portant occasions of life. In accordance with this,we have compiled this little pamphlet for the youngstudent’s practice ; which we hope will be foundnseful to both sexes. With regard to the mannerand the forms of letters, the following rules should beobserved : —When you write to a person of consequence, letit be on gilt paper, and inclose it in a cover } do notwrite the direction on the letter itself, unless it be togo by tire post. Begin the letter at a good distancefrom the top of the paper ; and if you have compli¬ments to send to any of the family or friends, insertthem in the body of the letter. The first letter inany title, tire first after a full point as also those inreference to yourself, if you are writing to a personof eminence, ought to begin with a capital. Youshould not be too particular in the direction of yourletter to those who are well known, for it is in somemeasure an affront, as it supposes the person not tobe of importance.From a Young Man to his Father, desiring him tointercede uiith his Master to take him again intohis service.Honoured Sir,—With shame arising from guilt, Iwrite you at this time. 1 doubt not but you haveheard of the irregularities of my conduct, which pro¬ceeded so far as to induce me to desert the service ofthe best of masters. It was vicious company thatfirst tempted me to forsake the paths of virtue, amito neglect my work. I am now sensible of my faultand am willing to make all reparation in my power.4Let me beg of you to intercede with my worthy mas¬ter to take raea gain into his service, and my futurelife shall be one continued act of gratitude.—11 am,Sir, your affectionate, though undutiful son.The Father's Answer.My Dear Child — fever you live to be a father,you will know what I feel for you on the present oc¬casion. Tenderness as a p*rent; resentment on ac¬count of ingratitude, and respect for the worthy manwhose service you deserted, all conspire together toagitate .ny mind to different purposes: but maternalaffection predominates, aud I am obliged to act aVyour friend. I have written to your master, aidhave received his answer answer; copies of whichI have setnt inclosed. He is willing again to receiveyou into Ids service, and i hope your behaviour willbe corresponding to so much lenity—l am, your af¬fectionate father.The Father s Letter to the Master.My worthy Friend,— f have often written to yonwith pleasure, but I am constrained to address youou a subject I littlo expected. 1 have just receiveda letter from my son informing me that he lias leftyour service j his letter contains an acknowfedgmentof his offence, and a declaration of his refLolution toact consistently for the future. He has begged ofme to intercede with you in his behalf and I knowyou will excuse parental affection. It you will againreceive the uuhappy youth I ha.ve great reason tohope that his conduct will be equal to his promises.—Your sincere well-wisher.The Master s Answer.Sir,—Ever since I first considered the itifferencemIt between riglit and wrong, I have preferred mercy toI severity. I am a father, sir, and can feel what yousuffer. My resentment against the joting man isless than the anxietv for his happiness, In the meani tirue, nothing shall he wanting on my part to makeboth von and him content ; all faults are from thismoment forgotten ; the house is open for his recep¬tion ; and if he will return, lie shal'r be' treated withI the same indulgences as before.—-I am, sir,'your af¬fectionate friend.•* • ‘ K»>|.. r:». j.,-. .'l* li'«; • ■ ■> ' * •? •'?“* *"From a Yo'mg Man 'Apprentice to a Merchant infoxen, to his Father in the cov.idry, solicitingpocket m’onvi/.Ilonoured Sir,—I wrote to you some time ago hutI not having received an answer it makes me uu-| easy ; although t have been as good an economistas possible, yet I find the pocket money you allowme from Mr. VVjllis, is not sufficient to support tlienecessary expenses London is such a place, that;unless one maintains soaietiiiog of character, they aresure to he treated with contempt and ridicule. [ ab¬hor every sort of extravagance, as much as you candesire, and the small matter whi(,h l ask as an addi-addition to your former allowance, is only to promotemy tiwn interest, and which I am sure, you have asmuch at heart as any parent possibly can. The mas¬ter will satisfy you that my conduct has been consis¬tent with the strictest rules of morality. 1 submitto your judgment what you think proper to orderme. 1 did not mention my want of money to Mr.Willis and have taken nothing more than what youordered. I hope yon will not he offended with what1 'nave written ; as I a>ha 1 always consider myselfHappy in performing mV duty, and acquiring the fa¬vour ot my honoured parents,— i am, honoured Sir,your affectionate son.6.The Father't Answer.My Dear Son,—The reason ror not sending ananswer to you sooner was that I had been on a jour*ney to Birmingham, and did not ate your letter tilllast night. I have considered your request, and hasfound it reasonable. You are mistaken if you thinkthat 1 wanted ta confine you to tlie small matter paidby Mr. Willis, or to one particular sum. You areuow arrived at an aga when it becomes incumbenton yon to be wtll acquainted wiih the value and useof money. Your profession also likewise requires itboth prudence and steadiness in youth, naturally leadsto the regularity of conduct in more advanced year*.Viitue ensurestrespect, and well do I know that admanner of precepts are quite useless where the in*clinations are vicious. T have left the affair men¬tioned in your letter, entirely to your ow* discre¬tion ; and have sent the inclosed unlimited order. Ihave no doubt but prudence will direct you how toproceed—I am, dear child, your affectionate andloving father.From a younv Gentleman at a School in ike countryto his Brother, an Apprentice in London.Dear Jackey,—Little master William Thomsonis going to London to-morrow morning in the stageassd L have sent this with hint to you. We are allwell at school, and 1 have got as far as Ovid-, I havelikewise got through the rules of practice, of whichI shall give you a better account when I come totown at the holidays. Dear brother, give my re¬spects to my father and mother, and tell them l longto see them •, I pray for them and ycu every night.I spend about an hour every day in reading Dr,Goldsmith’s Roman History. Pray Jackey, sendme some books for I am fond of reading them, and a7; pen-knife, and I shall do more for you when I leaveschool.—I ara your loving brother.[ . I fi Ol f*V‘ i I1’'.- '• WlH- V nX| -• !•  T/ie Brother's Ansrver.Dear Brother,— 1 received your kind letter, andam glad to hear that you are well, as also of the pro¬gress jou make in learning. I read your letter toyour father and mother, and they are much pleasedwith it. William Thomson dines at our house to¬morrow, and he will bring you this. Your motherhas sent you halt a guinea : and as yon seem to beso fond of books, i have sent you Rol!iufs BeliesLetters. Mr. Austin our curate says that althoa^ hall sort of history is usefi.l, yet he thinks that youshould begin with that of your own country ; and hehas sent you a present «f Russel’s History of Eng¬land. I have sent you the knife and some ether ar¬ticles which you will find sealed up in the parcel —We all beg that you will continue to preserve as youhave begun in an uniform course of virtue. It willbe a pleasure to your parents, ai d turn out to yourowa advantage at the last.—1 am, dear Brother af¬fectionately yonrs.From a Young Woman just gone to Service in Lon¬don, to her Mother in the Country,Dear Mother,—It is now a month that I haveferen at Mr Wilson’s, and I like my place quite well.My master and mistress are both worthy people. Atmy first coming here I thought every thing strange,and wondered to see such great multitudes of peoplein the streets; but what I suffer most from is, theremembrance of your’s and my father’s kindness ;I begin to be more reconciled as 1 ^now you werenot very able to support me at home. 1 return yeuthanks for the kind advice you gave me at parting,J08and I shall endeavour to practice tlia| so long as Ilive. Let me hear from you often; so with my re¬spects to my father and mother, and kind love to aflfriends.—I remain ever, your most dutiful and af¬fectionate daughter.The Mother's Ansiver.My Dear Child —1 am glad to hear that ydtihave got into so respectable, a family. You Inbwthat we never should have parted had it not beeh foryour good. Continue active and obliging, and thtpeople will love and esteem yoif. Keep yodfSeifemployed as mud) as you can, and be willing to as¬sist your fellow servants. Never speak ill erf anyperson ; and if-you hear a had tale, do not repeat itagain but let it slip out of mind as soon n't possible,it yon have any spore time from your business, spendsome part of it in reading the ’ Bibid " I'pray foryou daily, and there is nothing that1 I desire mdrethan my dear child’s happiness. Your father desireshis blessing, and your brothers and sister their kindlove to vou. Heaven bless you, dear, and continueyou to he a comfort te us all, and particdai-ly to—-Y’our affectionate mother.From a young Man in the Country to a Merchant inLondon offering Correspondence..Sir,—My apprenticeship with Air, )Vi.J*on beingexpired, during which I have observed the integri¬ty in all your dealings with my respected master,and my parents having given me two hundred.poundsto begin the world, which you know is nqt suffi¬cient to commence trade with any ad vantage; thatI might he able to sell the goods as cheap as possi¬ble, 1 would wSsh to have them from the first hand.If it is agreeable to you, 1 offer my correspond-9ence, not doubting bu.t that you will use me as wellas you did Mr. ^ilson, aud you may depend uponmy punctuality with respect to payments—and am,sir, your humble servant,The Merchant's Answer,Sir,—I received yours, and am extremely gladto hear that your parents have enabled you to opena shop for yourself. 1 have seat you the goods withtlie waggon, and hope that you will he punctual inyour returns, which will always enable me to serveyiiii'is'low aS possible, and with the best goods Ican firhci’il'e. I heartily wish you success in b.usi-n(,ss. aifd.dniiBt not but you well know that steadi¬ness and attention Are the most likely means .to llVsure it—and am your obliged humble servant.Frbrt a young Man whose Mailer had lately died, to*" ' a Merchant in London,Sir,—I doubt not but that you have heard of mylate worthy master’s death. I have served him abovetwelve years; and as my mistress is not to carry onthe hositressJ 1 have taken the shop and stock iritrade, and shall be glad to-deal with you in the samemanner as be did. I. have inclosed a Banker's billfor what is due at present: and have to beg of y • :ito forward the goods as ordered, which you will placeto my debit, and depend upon punctuality of pay-hrent\ m before.—I am, sir, your humble serjaht.The Answer.Sir,— Yours I did receive, am extremely sor- .ry to hear of the death of my good old friend, yo«r slate master, but am obliged for your continuing acorrespondence with my house, and will at all timesdo my endeavours to serve you on the best terms.10I have *eat your order in ten bale* with the Speed¬well, John Thoimon, master, and jou will find themas good and a* cheap as any that are to be had inLondon. I return you many thank- for your of¬fered correspondence, and vhall on all occa-ions useyou with honour. I wish you all manner oi success,and am, &c.To a Correspondent, requesting the payment of a sumof MoneySir,—Although the balance of the account betweenns has been so long standing in my favour : vet Iwould not have applied to you at present had not anunexpected demand been made unon ntc for a eo&siu.erable sum, which it is not in my power to answer.When I have an opportunity of seeing you, I shallthen inform you of the nature of this demand, and thenecessity of my discharging it. If it does not suityou to remit the whole, part will be thankfully re¬ceived by —Your humble servant.The Answer.Sir,—I have just recsived yours, and am serry tohear of your affliction. That the account betweenus was not sooner settled, was owing to the failureof two principal creditors. I have just received aRemittance from Nottingham, and am well pleasedthat it is in ray power to answer the whole of yourdemand. The balance between us is two hundredand fifty puonds, for which I have sent inclosed anorder on Mr. Cash, the banker. I hope you will sur¬mount this and every other difficulty, and am,—It our sincere well-wisher.An urgent demand for Payment.Mr. Thompson,—The exigent itatt of my affairs11compels me Unit importunately, nay. peremptorily’to write to you. Can you think it possible to carryon business in the manner you act with me? youknow what promises you have made, and how fromtime to time you have broken them ? Can I there¬fore depend upon the new promises you make ? if youuse others as I have been used, how can you thinkof carrying *n business ? if you do not, what must Ithink of the man who deals worse with me than bedoes with others ? if you think you can trespass moreupon me than you can do upon others that is a verybad cnmplimeut to my prudence, or your own grati¬tude }• for I think good usage should be entitled tothe same in return. I know how to allow for disap¬pointment* as well as any person, but can a man bedisappointed for ever ? trade is so dependent a thingthat it eannot be carried on without mutaal care.——Does uot the merchant expect from me for the samegoods that 1 send to you ? and can I make a returnto him without receiving it from you ? what can itanswer to give you twelve months' credit, and thenbe not certain of it, for goods which 1 sell at a small|*rcfit, and have only six months' credit f6r myselt ?Indeed sir, this will never do, I must be more punc¬tually used with you or else must deal as little punc¬tually with otliers ; and then what must he the con¬sequence? In short sir, I expect a handsome pay¬ment with the next return and security for the re¬mainder ; as I am do not wish to take any harshmeasures to procure justice to myself, my family, amicreditors.—Sir, 1 am, if it be not your fault—Yourfaithful friend and servant,.The Ansvcet.Sir,—-I acknowl-dge with gratitude, the lenityyou have at all times ihoirn, and my being obliged12to disappoint you so often, gives me much uneas’-ness. 1 do assure you sir, that I am not so unjiralr-ftil as my conduct has given you reason to beheve.From the state of my accounts you wflr find that thegreatest part of my property is in the hands otcountry dealers, who although they seldom fail, yettheir fifties of payment are very precarious and un¬certain However to convince you of my integrity,1 have sent by ibis clay's past an order for seventypounds, and the next week you shall receive onemuch larger. The lemainder shalf be sent in a veryshort time, I am determined for the future, Vomake the rules laid down in your excellent let.ter, a"nide in tnfir deafiogs with those whose Jjla-JO   "‘J *l" ' ~' C ’ ” - IT. * ' ‘ *toryness in making good their payments to me, o-fdiged me to disappoint yon; and to convince youfarther of mv integrity, the goods winch I order, tillthe old account is paid off shall be ready money,-—1 doubt not hut you will continue to treat me withthe same go id usage as formerly; and believe me tbbe unfeignediy—Your obliged humble servant.fSoliciting the Loan of Money from a Friend.Dear sir,—I believe that since you first knew ni,you will be ready to acknowledge,that no person wasever more bashful in asking favours than myself.—Jlut an unexpected affliction in my family, obligesme to solicit von assistance, by the loan ot aboutforty pounds for six months, if you can possibly sp ireit without hurting yourself. I would not haveasked it at all, were I not certain of paying it atthe time proposed.—1 am, sir, yours with the grdat-est sincerity.The Answer.Dear sir,—I could not hesitate for one moment' ISin answering rmir letter ; and liad I known tliat myworthy friend had been in the want of the sum men¬tioned, I should never have put his affected modestyto the bludi, by suffering him to ask it • no sir; theoffer should have come from niyself Howeder, thesum is sent by the hearer, but let me beg that if youconsider me really as your friend, you will suit thepayment to your own circumstances, without beingconfined to a particular time ; ami not only so, hutthat yon will command my assistance in every tilingelse wherein I can serve jou.From a Tenant to a Landlord) excusing delay ofpayment.Sir,—I have been your tenant above ten years inthe bouse where I now live, and you know that Inever failed to pay my rent quarterly when due. Atpresent I am extremely sorry to inform you thatfrom a variety of losses and disappointments I amtinder the necessity of begging that you will mdulgeme one quarter longer. By that time I hope to haveit in my power to answer your just demand, and thefavour shall be ever gratefully acknowledged by,—.Your obedient humble servant.The Answer.Sir,—It was never my design to oppress you, IItave bad a long trial of your honesty, and there¬fore you may rest perfectly satisfied concerning yourpresent request. No demand shall he made by meupon \oti for your rent, until it suits you to pay it jfor I am wd! convinced you will not keep it fromme any longer.— I am yours sincerely.From a Country Farmer on the same occasion.Honoured sir,—I am extremely sorry that through14tlirjugli a variety of unforseen accidents I am oblig¬ed to write you on such a subject as the present.—The season last year was had, but I was enabled topay you. This has turned out much worse and itbeing so long before we could get the corn home, itis not yet fit to be sold. I Only beg your patienceabout two months longer, whee I hope to pay youfaithfully witli gratitude.— l am. Sir, your honesttenant, and bumble servant.The Answer*Mr. Clover.—I hope that, from the whole of myconduct ever since yos first became a tenant of mineyou cannot have reason to allege any thing agaiasfme. I never treated you with rigour, as I alwaysconsidered you as an industrious honest man. Makeyourself perfectly content concerning the paymentof the rent, till I come to the country in the snmmer,and if things be as you represent (and I doubt notbut that they are) you may be assured of all reason*able indulgence.—I am yours.From a Young Man who had an opportunity to tiiup in Business hut destitute oj money to a Gentle-mau of reputed Benevolence.Honoured Sir,— When you book at the subscrip-lion, you will remember me having servttf you withgoods when I was apprentice to Mr. Hopkins, gro*cer in the Strand. 1 have been a little above twomonths out with my time, which was spent in hisservice, and the greatest [art of my wages havebeen given to support an agrd mother confined toa sicl*-bed. Mr, Hopkins (lied about ten weeks ago-,and having no family, his executors, (whs are al¬most all strangers to me) are going to let the shop.My respected master has left me about one hundredpounds in his wil', hut that is iu no way sufficient15to purchase the stack in trade ; nor will they piveauy longer than twelve months' credit. Being wellacquainted with the trade, as also the customers, andhaving such a fair prospect of settling in business, Ihave presumed to lay it before yon. I have oftenheard of your willingness to serve those placed underdifficulties, particularly young people beginning theworld. If you do spprove ol this, and will advanceso much on my bond, to he paid in a limited time, itshall be sale as if it were in the hands of jour bank¬er. I shall he ns frugal and industrious a* possible,and the whole of my time shall be employed in theclosest attendance on the duties of my station andshall acknowledge your kindness with gratitude n?Jong as I live in this world. I hope this will notgive you anv offence and if you would give me leave1 will Wait upon you along with one of the execu¬tors, that you may Lear their proposals. The char¬acter which I bear as to honesty and steadiness, willstand the strictest inquiry, as is testified in mv latemaster’s will, as also by all with whom I have hadany dealings.—I am, honoured and respected Sir,your obedient and humble servant.Recommending a Man-Servant.Sir.—The bearer has served me with integrityand fidelity for three months but having a desire toget settled in Loudon, he left my house about a weekago and according to a letter received from him to¬day', I find you are willing to engage him on my re¬commendation, and it is with the greatest pleasure Icomply with this reque>t. His behaviour while hewas with me, was strictly honest, sober and diligent,and I doubt not but it will be the same with you.—I have sent this in one to himself, and if you engagehim, I hope he will give satisfaction.— I am, Sir,your humble servant.16From a y oil no Tradesman lately entered into Businessto his Father asking his consent to marry.Honoured sir,—It is now above, three years sinceI entered into business for myself', and find it dailyincreasing.- There is a very' worthy family in thisneighbourhood, with vvhom I have been some timeacquainted. They are in good circumstances, andhave a daughter, an amiable yoting woman ; I havepaid my addresses to her, and likewise obtained theparents' consent, on condition that it is agieeahte toyou. Upon the strictest inquiry you will 'find.hersuch a person that you will have no objection tb, Iendeavour to act consistent wit!) the rules you were- '-.-rn.' ffrr mv coridtict. The parentsare to pay me fire hundred pounds on the day cfmarriage ; and as they have no..pther cbjlditu, theirproperty Incomes ours at their death. In whateverlight you are pleased to consider this, I shall abideby your direction, and your answer in tfip meantimeis impatiently expected by—Your dutiful >on.The Father's- Answer.Mv Dear Son,— [ feeeiyed your letter, find myreason lor not an answer sooner is, it beipt^an ; af¬fair of importance. 1 wrote to Mr. Johnstone, myagent, requesting him to inquire coneerniug the fa¬mily you desire to be allied with ; ’anil l am gladto hear iIkU his account does not differ from yourown. Your reasons for entering into the marriagestate are every way satisfactory, and I am glad tohear that the person you have placed your aflectionson is so deserving When you have fixed the wed¬ding day, l will come to London to be present ajtthe ceremony, and spend a few days with my oldfriends' 1 hope .you will continue to attend yourbusiness with the same diligence you have iiltlie'rto17done, and if you should live to an old age, you willthen he able to retire from trade with honour bothto yourself and family,—-Lam, deaa- son, your affec*tibnatrfdfiUHiAn'taad h;, - > jinmb ingi^. '.jFrom a young Man, fust done ro'tk his Apprentice-■ ship; to his Sweetheart, d servant in the heigh-houfhohd. ,,Dear Sally,—1 have, been long in love with youbnt was afraid to.tell it. When 1 go with you toPagtiigge, or Sadler's Wells, 1 am almost like afoolj ana altogetJier unfit for company. 1 think otthee all day. and at night. I dream ot dear Sally. Iare well settled in.work, and the wages are eighteenshillings a-\veek. You and I can live on thatt andit shall tie brought home untouched on Saturdayevening And 1 will not go to a ale-house, bat as soonas work is done, return fib me' to my dear belovedwije, I hope my dear will not he displeased, for Iam deep in I iVe. I cannot he content unless you aremine. I was afraid to mention this before but itvoii will leave an answer at the house where Hodge,I will'm^ePthee next Sabbath, alter dinner, at theShepherd and Shephefdess, when we will take a walkto Hornsea House and drink tea. How content shallI be to! hear from my dear charmer ! but a thousandtimes more to think she shall be mine.— t am, dearyour real lover.'The Answer.Dear Jack,—I did receive )cur kind letter, hutI do not know what to express in an answer. Al¬though I would like to get married, but men are sodeceiving, that there is no such thing as trusting tothem. ,1 here is Tom Timber the Carpenter, andJack Hammer the Smith, who have not been mar¬ried above six months, and every night come home18drunk, and beat their wives. What a miserablelife is that Jaek, end what do I know but you mightbe as bad to me ? what do know but you, like them,might get drunk every night, and beat me black andblue before morning! I do assure you Jack, that ifI thought that would be the case, 1 would ratherscrub floors and scour sauce-pans as long as [ live.But perhaps you would net he so bad ; for on theOther hand there is Will Copper the braaier, andJack Trotter, the assman, who are both happy withtheir wives ; they are both home-bringing husbands,and have every nigl t a hot joint of meat and a potof beer, I am not yet certain what 1 should do ; butas I am fond for a walk to Hornsea I will meet youat the Shepherd and Shepherdess on Sunday afterdinner, and then we shall talk more of the matter.—I am. dear Jack, your obedient servant.From a young Lady to a Gentleman complaining ojIndifference.Sir—However light you can make of piomises,yet I am foolish enough to cohsider them as some¬thing more than trifles; and am likewise induced tobelieve that the man who thus volntarily breaks apromise, will not pay much regard to an oath ; andif so, in what light must I consider your conduct ?Did I not promise faithfully to be yours, and hadyou no other reason for soliciting, than merely thegratifeation of your vanity: a biutal gratificationindeed, to triumph ever the weakness of a woman,whose greatest fault was that she loved you. Isay loved you—for it was in consequence of thatpassion that I first consented to become yours. Hasyour conduct sir, been consistent with my submis¬sion, or even with your own solemn profession ? is itconsistent with the character of a gentleman, first toobtain a woman's consent, and then afterwards brag19that he discarded her, and found one more agreeableto his wishes ? Do not equivocate, ( have too manyconvincing proofs of your inconstancy ; I saw youlast night walking with Jane Benson, and am in¬formed that voti have proposed marriage to her.—*Whatever you should about it sir, 1 have a spirit ofdisdain and even resentment, equal to your ingrati-tude, and can treat the base wretch with a properindifference, who is able to make so slight a matterof the most solemn promises. Jane Benson may beyour wife, but she will just receive into her arms apefljnred husband; nor can ever the superstructurebe lasting which is built on such a bad foundation.1 leave you to the stings of your conscience.— L amtho injured.The Gentleman's Answer.My Dear Angel,—For that is the name I muststill call you ; has cruelty entered into your tendernature, or has some designing base wretch imposedon your credulity? Dearest love, 1 am not whatyou have represented ; 1 am neither false nor per¬jured—I never proposed marriage to Jane Benson ;1 never designed it; and the sole rea>on for walk¬ing with her was, that 1 had been on a visit to herbrother, who you know is my principal attorney. Andwas it any fault on the part of me to take a walk in¬to the fields along with him and his sister ; surelyprejudice itself cannot say so '; but 1 am afraid thatyou have been imposed on by some designing person,who had private views and private ends to answerby such baseness. But whatever may have beenthe cause, 1 am quite innocent: and to convinceyou of my faithfulness, beg that the day of marriagewould be next week. My affections never so muchas wander from the dear object of my love ; in youare centered all my- hopes of felicity j with you20alone I can be content. Keep me not in despair onemoment longer, vvitli entertaining groundless jealous¬ies agaiust one who loves you in a manner superiorto the whole ot the fair sex ; and I can set at defi¬ance even malice itself. Let me have an answerback with the bearer, which will either make mecontent or miserable. 1 have sent a small parcelwith the beaier, which I hope will ire accepted as aconvincing proof of my love ) an am—Fours for ever.From a young IVomrm, a Servant in London> to htrParents*, dcsiring-their consent to Marry.'■Hmnmred lather and nint her.-—I have sent this toinform you, that one Mr, Wood, a young ma'rV a ca¬binet-maker, has paid his addresses to me, and nowoilers File marriage. 1 have told him that I woulddo nothing tvitlinut your consent, tHid therefore havesent tin's with William Jones,,a neighbour who call¬ed on me, and will inform you better of ids circuni-stanceL: nnir^tisib emoe n*d to &uiKtiThe gentleman has been in business above twomonths, and is.very regular and sober. t he peoplein the neighbourhood esteem him, and his businessis increasing. I think I could live in contentmentwith him but do not choose to give him an answeruntil 1 have first heard from you—whatever answeryou send shall be fallowed by—*-Vour affectionatedaughter.The Parent's Answer.Dear Child,— We received your letter with Mr.Junes, and the character (ws- jiiVes tif the young manis so agreeable, that we have no objection your beingmarried to him. You will seriously con-ider theduties of that important state; and consider wellwith yourself, that according to your conduct to each21other you must either be happy or miserable. Thereare many occurrences in .life in which the best ofmen’s temper* may be ruffled on account of losses ordisappointments ; if your husband should at any timebe so endeavour to make biin as easy as possible.Be careful of every tiling he entrusts to your keep-in# •, and never affect to appear superior to your sta¬tion ; although your circumstances may be easy, yetwhilst in trade you will find a contiuual went of mo¬ney tor many different purposes, It is possible somemay despise you, but they will he forced in the endto acknowledge the duties of a married state. MayGod direct von in every thing for the best, is the sin«cere, prayer of Your loving father and mother.From a jealous Lover to his Mistress.O Madam, madam !—I am neither blind nor deaf—I can both see and hear !—Your partiality forMp. Careless is every day before my eyes, and yourten'iiernesA lor him has now reached my ears. Butwhy have yon deceived me? why promised constaa-cy-and love, and drove me to madness and despair3What action of my life has merited this base return ?Have I not loved?—Yes cruel beauty; doated todistraction and wherefore use me thus? ■ As I can-rot hear the thought of being a dupe any longer, Iwish to know your real and, candid sentiments. Ifit be your pleasure that all our fornrer vows—all ourtout! protestations should be revaked, 1 am content ;for I despise a lifeless band. The heart is. the chiefof mv ambition. Your candour therefore will great¬ly oblige, Madam—Your distracted lover.From a Lover after receiving wounds in Batt\e tohis Mistress.My Dear Caroline,—You have oftea declared22that not tb« coniliness of my person, but tha aceora*pli^hmenU of my miud, had gained your affection* ;wall it is for me if this be true, for I cannot longerboast of those personal charms, with which thelooking-glass once flattered me, I have last oneof my eyes; I am deprived of a leg ; but they aregone in an honourable cause, 1 hope that dear Ca¬roline will give me no reason to regret their loss.—I did not think it proper to see you, till you wereprepared for the reception of me ; for fear my ap¬pearance might not only shock but disgust If there¬fore you be as anxious as 1 am for an interview, tellme in an immediate answer, and if agreeable I shallfly on the wings of love to prove myself—Your de¬voted servant.The Lady's Answer.Dear William,*—If I grieve and seem diseontent-ed at your misfortunes, the sorrow believe me is pureand proceeds from anxious apprehension that yourhealth will therefore be impaired, I prayed to hea¬ven to preserve your life, it is preserved, and I amthankful. Oh I then let me see you as soon as pos¬sible, and believe me—Your sincere lover.A Love Letter.—Two ways of reading.Madam,—The great love and tenderness I havehitherto expressed for you (is false, and I now feelthat the indifference I have towards you) increasesmore and more; and the more I see of you; the more(you appear ridiculous in mine eyes, and an objectof contempt ) I feel inclined and in every re-spect disposed and determined to (hate you. Be¬lieve me, I nevtr had the least inclination to)offer you my hand. Our last conversation has,I do assure you, (left tedious and wretched insipi¬dity, which by no means has) possessed me withthe most exalted opinion of your character. (Your23inconstant temper would make for erer miserable.)And if ever we are united, I shall experience no¬thing but (the fearful hatred of my parents, addedto an everlasting dis-) pleasure in ]>ving with you.I have indeed a faithful heart (to bestow, but how¬ever l do not wish you to imagine that it is) at yourservice ; it is impossible I should give it to one more(inconstant and capricious than yourself, and onewho is less) capable to do honour to my choice andto my family. (Yes, madam I desire and beg youwill be persuaded that) I think sincerely, and youwill do me the greatest favour (to avoid me, I shallreadily excuse your taking the trouble) to give meanswer to this ; your letters are full of (nonsense andimpertinence, and have not the shadow of) wit orgood sense. Adieu, and believe truly that I am (soaverse to you, it is impossible 1 should erer bel youraffectionate lover.jFrom a Gentleman, whose Wife was lately, dead to aClergyman in the neighbourhood.Iteverend Sir,—You have often, both in publicand private, enlarged on those comforts and con¬solations which ^Christianity affords to the afflicted \and if ever they were needful to ene under thosecircumstances, it must be to myself. About seveno'clock last night, my wife died in child-bed, and Iam now the disconsolate parent of five young cbil-dren. Had any person seen the excruciating tor¬tures under which she expired, it would have remind¬ed them of the emphasis of the curse pronouncedupon our first parents for their rebellion against God.When she saw the king of terrors approach, shewas all resignation to the Divine will, and left thislower world in the same manner, and with thesame cheerful spirit, as if she had been going tovisit a friend or to attend the service of her Maker.24Cberwliflmed with grief, I entered her chamber,when she exerted the small teaiains of strength, andspoke to me as follows;—“ My Dear—I am now going the -.vay of all flesh,hot Gad the ever fasting God will be your comfort.When I first becariie yours, I lob Veit for ail the hap¬piness consistent with the state of human nature intins vale of misery ; and I must confessthat my high¬est wishes have been gratified. _aud your tendernesshas been even more than I co'ultf expect. You mayhave seen faults in my conduct, but I do assure you(^nd is this a time to dissemble ?) they were alto¬gether involuntary. My principal stody was to ob¬tain the favour of that God before whom I am soonto appear. My obeifiepce to the commands of tuyGod Ifas been attended with many imperfections, butI trust for pardon and acceptance in' the merits ofmv dear Redeemer.” Here she fainted—looked wist¬fully at me and shed a tear over her dear childrenwho were crying by her bed.—She attempted tospeak but in vain. At last fixintr her eyes towardsheaven she repeated those beautiful words ‘ Intothy hands I commit my soulj for thoa hast redeemedme O then God of my salvation —and then closedher eyes never to be opened till the sound of the lasttrumpet. I was sunk for some time in the greatestdistress, looking on the dear remains of my departedspouse:, and endeavouring to silence bv persuasion,the cries of her orphan ehtldrem. At last. I recol¬lected that I had still a friend left in you, to whomI might, with a view of consolation, iay open the in¬most recesses of my heart. I am afraid your indis¬position may hinder vou from visiting me, and if so,let'me beg that you will in the meantime, favour mewith a few lines. At present every sort of consola¬tion will be acceptable,—I am, &c.*1\