'rat}ADVANTAGESAND DISADVANTAGESor THE4Married State,/ , K'au M i , jhow aifh; AS EUTERED INTO WITH‘ ~ * V " '' ' ‘ ' l x*tTii t x . if'Cj V , 'jiOl /c' i * • ^.Religious or Irreligious Persotis,delivered underTHE SIMILITUDE OF A DREAM.Improved arid amended.nourBY JOHN BUNYAN, Jun. -3 —  7—w- • **_ J" -'A.-'1 31lJ (CJ331K'vn.. :':d .0.4 . tin! r.jK >•;r .Printed ly H. Crawford^ Booktelier* ,law ic 1826.THEADVANTAGES and DISADVANTAGESOF THEMARRIED STATE,AS I walked through the wilderness ofthis world, I laid me down to sleep;and fancied myself travelling to the City ofold Babylon, where I was much amazed inviewing the curiosities of the place; as theTower, the Wall, the Gates, the Streets,the Palace, the River, the Images in theplain of Dura, See. I observed the City,and it appeared in different views. In onepart, the*people were entirely taken up inrevellings, teastings, diversions, splendidappearances and enjoying themselves. Intne other, they.-were more reserved, andwere much takefc Aipin a ddmUf'e dress andbehaviour, in thr decency of their housesand streets, in the regularity of their tow¬ers and fortifications. Sec. but without anyappearance of danger, they seemed entirelyat ease. Howoeit, when 1 had satiated my¬self with gazing at the'pirticular shows, Ithought to take a prospect of the whole citytogether. So 1 walked to a rising grounda little retired from the cro * d, where I sawa booth, which I took to be built on pur¬pose, for the conveniency of taking pros-sP*cts, and went directly to It; and at thedoor I saw an old man, of whom I enquir¬ed, if he had ever a prospect glass* where¬by I might be favoured with a full view ofof the royal City, which I supposed to bethe metropolis of the world. He told me,if I pleased to take deliberate observation,I might perhaps have different apprehen’siens of that splendid City, than 1 had atpresent; but he assured me, it was so fuhof intestine perplexity, that the inhabitan'ffchad no real satisfaction in themselves. Hetherefore then fetched out his prospective,and told me, if I pleased he would shew methe situation of the place, whereby I mightbe convinced, that its condition was notso happy, nor its glory so majestic as Iimagined.So I took a distinct view of the south■side, and the foundation appeared to be no¬thing but bogs and quick-sands, whichcould not possibly sustain the buildings,but ere long they must inevitably sink."I again took a view of the north side,and the foundation was all bituminous andsulphureous matter, interspersed with sub¬terraneous fire, which appeared ready in amoment to break forth in flames!He then bid me look to the east, and Isaw a very formidable army approachingthe City, with full power to destroy it;and they spread themselves with fury, likethe roaring of the sea! and there was atrembling upon all the hills, rivers, trees,and fields; but all the inhabitants of theCity continued in a stupifieation !When I had deliberated on these things,it filled me vyith astonishment, such ascaused my bowels to turn within me. Suchwas my surprise, and the horror that seiz¬ed me, that I thought l was neither able to' bear the sight, fly from it, nor stand myground!I asked the old man, if I might lodgeall night in that booth ? but he told me,it was not a place for lodging, nor wouldany person in his right mind think it saleto sleep so near the .City ; yet, 'A I pleased,I might come in and rest myself a little.When I entered, I found four youngmen, brethren, very carefully perusing amap, making very particular remarks andohservafiqns, and would sometimes enquirethe old man’s judgment, to inform themof the meaning of some things.Hereupon I asked what place it wasthat so much attracted their attention;Tltey told me, it was the map of Babylonand Canaan, with all the bounds betweenthe two places; and being determined toleave their native country, and travel tothe latter place, was the reason ot theirpresent enquiries.$o I observed, ^nd they all made prepa-sI rations, with vigorous resolution, far their*i journey. And amongst other consultationsi with the old man, their instructor, theyearnestly craved his advice. Whether itwere expedient for each of them to takealong with him a female companion ? whichhe very cheerfully encouraged them to da,provided they were such as were disposedto go the same way, and had their heartsengaged to seek tlie same country. Other¬wise, he admonished them, by all means,to avoid such companions as had no know-I ledge of, or delight.in the way they design-i ed to travel. He pointed out to them manyi difficulties in the way, where the companyof strangers would be of very dangerousconsequences; and further informed themof many instances, what bad effect!*-thtv'e!-lers, who had formerly gone that way, hadfound from disagreeable companions: toprevent which inconveniences, the king ofthe country had made a law, that none ofhis subjects should join with strangers, tobe companions in that journey. ■ *I waited to see what influence this advicewould have upon the minds of these youngmen. But 1 observed, that, at the first,none of them seemed to relish his counsel jfor they had all either contracted 'someacquaintance with, or placed their fanoyupon, maids who were natives of Babylon.But the more they appeared engaged in&thriF afFections, the more their instructorinsisted on the danger and pernicious ton-sequences which would attend their havinguuch. companions; and withal told them,the king had appointed one to attend themin their journey, whose name was Self-de¬nial,, without whose company, it would beimpossible ever to reach tne borders of Ca¬naan ; and that to choose a stranger for acompanion, would be such an insult to himat die first setting out, as might cause _amisunderstanding all the way. For hispart, he told them, that to pretend, to tra-vet to Canaan, and to choose a Babylonianfor a companion, was a contradiction ; thatlie could not doubt the sincerity of theirhearts, for if it was possible for a sinceretraveller to choose such a companion, yethe -Was very certain, it could not be so Ipngas they continued in the right use of theirreason ; and he must discharge his consci¬ence jn giving them timely admonition.I observed the event of those consulta¬tions, and I found the oldest, whose namewas Theomacus. could not be moved by allthese arguments, but absolutely chose onewho was an utter stranger to the path, norpad any delight therein, nor desire thereto.And when he had covenanted with her, sheproved so averse to going along with him,and so reluctant to pursuing his intendedjourney, that she prevailed upon him to de-7sist from his purpose ; so he settled withher in Babylon. And poor Iheoniacus,with his companion, were both there whenthe City was destroyed, and perished hithe ruins! ■ ;But the second brother, whose namewas Negotio, more regarded the couiisel gi¬ven him, and seemed more heedful in hischoice of a companion that would be wil¬ling to go along with him ; so, at last, hemet with one who appeared compilable tohis desire. 1 hough she had no knowledgeof the way, nor desire to walk in it. it onlyseemed a matter indifferent, as he was in¬clined to undertake the journey, she wouldcondescend to compliment him with hercompany. This pleased the young manwell, as he thought he would both gratifyhimself in the choice of a companion, andalso act conformable to his directions: buthe did not consider, that while her mindwas possessed with such indifference, hercompany must be very unprofitable. How.ever they joined hands and she compliment,ed him with her company. So they set outtogether, as if they would proceed on thejourney; but her indifferent mind soorprevailed so as to cool his warm affections,and caused their advances to be very slow.1 observed, when Imae Lbmb heard of hisfriend Negotio joining hands with a Baby¬lonian, as he passed by his door, he wrokc8upon it, Tchabod.—As they travelled, theywould frequently sit down in the shade,divert themselves with trifles, and oftenturn aside, which made their progress verysmall; and this indolence prevailed moreand more, until they came to a low valleyby the brink of the river Euphrates, wherethey turned aside and fell asleep; and whilethey slept, there arose a swell in the river,and the flood swept them both away.As for the third, whose name was Eu-phemius, when he heard the admonitions,they made deep impressions upon hismind, and filled him with awful apprehen¬sions ; he was convinced of the perniciousconsequences which would attend suchcompany, and appeared solicitous to avoidthem ; but how it was, I have now forgot,whether, before these considerations, he hadcontracted a correspondence, or whetherafterwards, by dalliance and giving latitude,to his fancy, he forgot himself, and wasentangled with a daughter of the Chaldees,which, betwixt the instructions he had re- ’ceived,and his own mi^uarded affections,caused some smugglings of his mind : forthe person was of a complaisant disposition,nor seemed at all reluctant to the things hehad in view. Yet he plainly perceived, shehad no taste to them, and that her innatedisposition was more to Babylon than Ca¬naan ; she had never been convinced of the9misery and ruin that was approaching; hernative coantf'y nor yet acquainted with thepleasures' itod delights of the land which hewas seeking'-after, nor had any desire tothe way ; hyt his strong irtciination stimu¬lated him to reason upon every thing inthe most advantageous light, and to putthe best constfiictions upon every circum¬stance ; as thus, that her complaisance wassuch, that she would be no hinderance ormolestation to him; that, by his example,he might engage her mind to that which$he had no inclination to at present ; thatit was very hard to be prohibitfcd fiom onewho, in all other respects, appeared so de¬sirable ; and that, probably, he might neverfind a companion complete in every point.In short, he persisted in these kinds of rea¬sonings, until he had almost stupiaed hissenses; but still could not free himself fromconvincing and dreadful apprehensions ofthe evil of taking so indirect a step, andthe inconveniences which would attend k,until, at length, a resolute passion prevailedso far, that his eyes were darkened that nascarce perceived the day from the night,iand during this obstruction of his senses,he went one evening, after the sun wasgone down, and joined, hands with thisBabylonian ; but when the sun arose inthe morning, and he was a little come, tohim seif, he then became sensible of the10rashness of bis sdver:>i. c. but it was tooiafe to vecal it. He now saw into whatsnares be bad brought himself, in whatuif-lid'lties he was involved ami what incom-r.'.orities must attend his journey ; and thatnow he had no way left, but to make thebest he could of the matter, and to grapplewith it as well as it should please God toenable him.So, after some bitter reflections, he en¬deavoured to smother his grief, and betakehimself to his journey, exerting his utmostskill and power to take his companion alongwith him i But, alas! when he attemptedto lead her into the way, he found she hadnot feet, she could not move a step furtherthan he must carry her, and a heavy bur¬then she proved. I observed some of histravel: When, he met with dangers, dis¬tresses, or disappointments, he would beginto expose his grief, and unbosom his nuudto his companion; but she had no ears, nounderstanding, nor heart to sympathizewith him, nor was she capable of knowingthe natu* e of his complaint. If he was be¬set with robbers, wild beasts, or serpents,See. he would sometimes make his com¬plaint to her; but she could neitherarsistnor comfort him. If he wanted directionsin the way, she could not give him anycounsel!: If he was sick or wounded, andwanted cordials or oil to his wounds, she11had no hairds-fco adniinister any relief; andas she never was capable of yielding himary succour or comfort in his sufferingr,neither was she ever capable of partakingof his enjo\ ments. If he met-with artyg;ar-.den of spices, or refreshing springs, by theway, he would offer her to eat and drinkwith him, but she had no taste $ if he fottndsweet flowers,’ she had no smell!, and ebuUl.have no delight in them ; if he had:*ny-delightful prospects, he would -endeavourto shew them to his companion, but shehad no eyes ; if he met with any fellowiraveiiers,. he would invite, her to enjoytheir company, but she was never fduwflwith any person who spoke the language ofCanaan, for it was a language that shC'lradnot learned. Thus, whatever grief betelhim, or whatever enjoyment he was fa¬voured with, in all his journey, he neveVfound any sympathy orcongratulatibhfroitjher, nor were her ^fldetionsotherwise mov¬ed than'sometimes' to despise, andtimes to shew disgust and disturbance stfmind : but as she had no life, capacity, sense,nor activity, to walk in the chosen pith', 3Hehad so much the more vivacity in thingspertaining to her own element; so that, rodraw him aside, she would discover sucH’asprightliness in all her Sense?, be so pleasantand diverting* and in all her conversationsso engaging, that she proved^ very great12hinderance to him in his iourney; lor tho*it was1 not in his power to find any thing,in his way-, that wr.uid divert or influenceher mind, yet she frequently found outsomething, in her own path, which diddivert, and insensibly draw away his heart,by which he was matiy times entangled, andladen as with thick clay. Another thingT.observed, that after he had begun hisjourney, the King of Israel (whose subjecthe was) sent them some young lambs tofeed,, with a strict charge to teach themdiligently in the way, and bring them upinjhis nurture and admonition,, But theperformance of thisxommand was renderedimpracticable ? for, as he instructed themto go'right, she induced them to wander;44 he endeavoured to gather them,.she scat¬tered them; and as he fed them withwfrplesonie food, she would surfeit themwith poisonous, herbs so, which way the,5(ing disposed of .them afterwards, I neverknew,.;fcut they never prospered under hiscare. , This, her company never yieldedhim the legst benefit or assistance through ,hjs whole journey, but was an alloy to allhis joys, and an aggravation to all his sor¬rows : And it frequently caused him veryi2?Uch regret pf mind, to think of his xs .vnunadvised engagement, and bitter leiitc-tions on his neglept qt duty, y^aridering andlost litpe which it had been the occasion of.as well as to observe tbe wretched stupifica-tioo of her mind, which was incapable ofsharmghis ei wnb# being affectedwith anv of hi« calamifie^f insorr uch thatit turned his uleasant a Weari-’some travel, through a lortSome wilderness.But. at last, throjugh many hours andtiresome steps-, he ar-nved near'the borders:of the fond, JOpon the hank tof the riverJordan, where, in the rhidgf offthe stream,be beheld a Man. in a rich priestly vesture,standing to stop the torrent till he was pas-sed over, which made him approach theriver exceedingly transported with joy ! YeteVen here, he c<>ukl not refrain from sigh¬ing, when he found it was not possiblefor his companion to go with him one stepfurther; but the glory of this Prince, nowin view, and the joy of approaching thepromised land, soma revived his spirits, andmade him with r<*3diness leave her to passthe river, {See Psalm xxiip) fJere his bur¬thens dropped off, and all his clogs were leftbehind ; he went on with fresh spirits andvigour,and cheerfulnesS'-in fps countenance,as if all things were forgotten, but'the joythat was before him* But as he was tak-ingisome of ids'last steps, just ready to sethiif.fest on Canaan's shore, he looked be¬hind him, and saw her sitting upon thesarrd, and beheld the river returning withsuch ag, overflow, as carried her along the14rapid stream into the Dead Sea. (Mattu.vii. 27.')As for the last, whose name was Cunno,when he had heard the instructions and ad-monitions jit wrought serious reflections onhis mind, and made him very deliberate,notwithstanding he was a person of a brightgenius, great vivacity, and a fine taste, hedetermined to deny himself; so, as whenhe saw the beauty, graceful mien, and heardthe courteous conversation of' the Babylo¬nish maids, he would withdraw, and turnaway his eyes, lest his heart should be en¬snared. (See Psalm cxi?c- 37.) However,it sometimes fell in his way to have con¬versation with some who appeared veryengaging, especially one Jemima, whoseperson, birth, circumstances, and accom¬plishments, rendered her extremely agree¬able ; insomuch, that many ot his acquain¬tances greatly encouraged hjrn to pursuethe opportunity, and not neglect so valua¬ble a prize. This made him stagger a little,for indeed she wanted no accomplishment^but the language of Canaan, to make her-just such an one as his heart could wish, andcaused him to reason in his mind as follows.Q. Can I expect to find a person meredesiresble, or one mot e likely to be a happycompanion and help-tneet ?A. She may prove so, to. a person naho ranbe conformable to stay with htr in Babylon, but15as I am bound to another country, 1 may-find^ bitterness in that which would appear happiness; to another.Q. But have I not reason to. hope, that: a person of her rehne.i quuUues may beendued with such blessings, as to make asuitable companion forme in my journey?si- A person may be accomplished with a\lth • excellencies of Babylon, so as to appear aU-\ perio' to many of the atizsnrt but if these bei only the accamphshm. nts of their own country,; they can only make d gradual difference between; them and the most abject peasant, whereas there\ is a specifc difference, between a Babylonian andIsraelite.Q. But is it not very censorious, to lookupon such a worthy person as no better1 than a mere Babylonian ?sl. Inasmuch as the difference is so great,1 that a Babylonian cannrt become a subject ofthe King of Israel .unless he bejormed anew, we' cannot esteem them any other, so^ lopg as theredies n't appear the. specific features of tho selectNation. (See Jv^hn v, iy, a’wUn, 3 ) theidiom of tbeir language, the mien of their be¬haviour, nor .yet an earnest enquiry after thedesired land(a/Iat. viii. 20 ) for we are no', toform our conception of them different from thedescription given by the King's scribes, f Pro¬phets and Apostles.) , /Q Is tl not exceeding bitrcJ, that I .mustdeny myself an object so agreeable?16^'A. The King 0/Glory dmeinothing that ispod; therefore, if tins was really pod, it wouldnot Me denied me ; he only denies those thingswhich he knows would be evil- and it is a dealkindness to us, 'to be denied of them But sup¬pose J thought it a real good, is it hard that heshould' deny me one favour, who has given him¬self to me, with all the blessings in heaven andearth ?Q. What if I never find one so agree¬able, who travels the happy road ?A. If I ha t the object now before me, myhappiness must entirety depend on the blessing ofGod ; aitd have l not reason to ex beet a blessingon the right way than on the wrong ? Besides,as nothing is with-held or denied but becauseit is evil, whatever God is pleased it bestowin his own way must be agreeable ?Q. May not the valuable qualificationsattending this person be so blessed, as to bea mean to make me happy and useful inthe way, thbugh-sh^walks not in it herself ?A. Have I any reason to expect to be madehappy by a person Who is an utter stranger tothhe things wherein my happiness consists ? Orcan I expect to find usefulness in the way, fromthat which cannot be enjoyed or obtained with¬out going out of the way ? Besides, wfoat qua¬lification she is endued with, or however valu¬able accomplishments she is possessed of, it neverwill be her inclination to employ those excellencies17id asiist others in a way she herself hath no de¬light in, (Psalm Ixxxiv. l. 12.)Q. But seeing her disposition is so agree¬able and complaisant, her mind so wellqualified with natural virtues, and decorat¬ed with so many acquired ornaments, isthere any reason to doubt, but that a per¬son thus prepared, will have a taste forlearning and embracing the best things;and may I not therefore expect to engageher mind to walk the blessed wray ?si. All thg accomplishments that a person canpas ibly receive from Babylon can never prepare,qualify, nor dispose them for travelling to Ca¬naan, nor will they, by any means, induce orincline any person to receive the real knowledgeor love of that country ; for there is' nothing mthe nature of a Babylonian, without the infu¬sion of new principles, that is capable of relishingthe things of Canaan, (1 Cor. ii. 14v but theinore excellent her accomplishments are, the morestrongly her mind will be cemented to that cli¬mate whence she received them. And oh theother hand, as /<former ly was a Babylonian,though now blessed with new principles, the oldtincture still remains in my nature, which, likeso much tinder, is ready to kindle with Baby¬lonish fire wherefore, the greater excellenciesshe is accomplished with, the greater influenceshe will have to draw me into perpetual dangerof departing from the living Ood. (Matth.xxvn 41.)ISWhen he had thus reasoned with himself,he made a full pause, appeared in a strongagitation of rriind, and a paleness arose inhis face. I heard him sigh, and say to him¬self, * Whither has my mind been roving!*Then, trembling, he lift up his eyes toheaven, and earnestly cried, ‘ O God ofall grace, deliver me from temptation.’—And from that time, he never would regardany of the damsels of the city, but said, hewould wait until he should find a true com¬panion, and till then, he would walk alone.So he went, on his way, rejoicing that hehad escaped the snare, and carrying alongwith him this motto, The Lord is my portion ;enjoying great satisfaction in his mind, say¬ing to himself, ‘ If my King see it good forme to be alone, I know he will bless thatstate unto-me ; bur it it be for my good toenjoy a companion, 1 know his goodnesswill pfoyide one for me,.without my goingcut of the way to find one.*r'.vB.ut.as he was going, on his way, he ob¬served JVliran da, a young virgin, who waswalking the same road, and began to befavoured with her company, but thoughtit advisable to be very deliberate, (Prov. iv.2b ) He observed whether she closely at¬tended to the right way: so he perceivedHer .taking something out of her. bosom,.perusing it for a while, then putit into her bosom again, and pursue the19 'straight path. Whereupon he went up taher,and enquired whereshe was going ? Shetold him, to Zion.—He asked her whatshe had been perusing? She shewed him,it was the Map of the Road, (viz. the Bi¬ble ) which she took, along with her forher guide. He then began to enquire whoshe was, and whence.she came? She toldhim, she was by birth a Chaldean, by edu¬cation and conversation a Babylonian,but was now seeking a better country.-4-He asked what expectation or encourage¬ment she had in taking such a journey ?She told him, she had the King’s Word,(Heb. vi. 17.) to make her an inhabitantin his Royal Palace, when she arrived atthe Upper Bethel, (Rev. xxi. 24. ; Isaiahxxxiii. 16.) and to grant her sufficient de¬fence and sustenance all the way thither.—He asked, if she could be fully satisfied inthe King’s veracity ? She told him, thefrauds and jealousies of Babylon had madesome impressions on her mind; that shehad found it very difficult to believe Himthat could not lie, but His Majesty hadcondescended to give her the strongest de¬monstrations of his fidelity; so that nowshe was convinced she had no reason todoubt his goodness, for he had confirmedhis promise with an oath, and had givenher to see that, in his.own records, it wassealed with bioodj that hitherto she .had20found his word, verified toTier* in stronglydefending and abundantly supplying herwants, so that she could set to her seal thathe was true. Then she also asked him di¬vers questions relating to his travels andenjoyments, and he likewise answered herin a free and satisfactory manner, so thattheir affections began to warm towardsone another.It was a very comfortable interview, andtheir minds were refreshed with each others’conversation.-—T hey appeared so agreeableone to another, that he began to think theymight be pleasant and profitable companionsall the way; but first, he retired to delibe¬rate on the conversation that had alreadypassed; when the more he thought of herdiligence in the pursuit of her journev, herfixed satisfaction concerning the end of it,her understanding in these things, laiddown for the guiding her in the way, andthe delight she appeared to take in medita¬ting on, and conversing about the joys ofthe City of Habitation, &c. the more hewas satisfied that she was a Prince’s daugh-ter* travelling to the Royal Palace: Andwhen he had lifted up his eyes to Heaven,and earnestly besought God for direction,and a blessing up6n their further conversa¬tion, he again came into her company.After some further discourse, he asked herthe reason of her walking alone ? She told2.1Mim, she found but few travelling the sameroad, and she did not think it expedientto turn aside, or neglect her way, for anycompany in the world, if she met withcompany, such as delighted in the ways ofwisdom, she took pleasure therein, for withsuch company she was refreshed andstrengthened in her journey; but otherwise,she chose rather to be alone, to divert her¬self in examining her map, viewing thesprings by the way, fruit-trees, sweet flowershearing the singing of birds (Solomon'sh- 12.) meditating upon the gloriesof her Prince, and the joys she should have,in his presence, &c. (Isaiah xxxiii. 17,) Sothat tho’ company was pleasant, when shecould enjoy it, the delights in the way (Isa.xii. 8. Solomon’s Song, xi. 4.—v. 1.) sup¬plied that want; and upon the whole, sheneither was anxious to have company, norhad any aversion against it, her design be¬ing to enjoy that only which might bemost conducive to forward her in the way.He then proposed, that since they hadfound each other’s conversation comfort¬able and useful, it might be for their.mutualadvantage to join together, and engage tokeep company all the way. She told him*it was not for persons of their profession todo any thing rashly, site would deliberateon it: so she retired, and prostrated herselfbefore the King her father, (Phfl> iv. 26.)telling him the matter, imploring wisdom22to direct, declaring herself willing to enjoyor be denied any thing, so it were accordingto his will, and might be for his honour*He told her, she had already been informedand well knew, what manner of personsthey must be, with whom it Would bo ex¬pedient for Kings’ daughters to keep com¬pany ; but if she found the person to be ofthe blood-royal, (Rev. i. 6.) and enduedwith princely qualities, she was at her fullliberty *, and moreover, by him, it shouldbe esteemed honourable, (Heb. xii. 4.) So,when these two lovers met again; havingddiberatelv consulted between themselvesall such things as they conceived necessaryrelating to such an engagement. Consideringthe King’s statutes thereupon, and jointlypetitioned his Majesty’s presence with them,and his blessing on their undertaking, theyjoined hands with great satisfaction and se¬renity of mind, rejoicing to see themselvespreserved from so many snares, and thushappily united by a divine hand, (Gen. ii. 4.)I then observed these happy companionspushing their journey, and saw verified inan ancient council (a help-meet,) for theywere sincere friends,- pleasant companions,faithful partners, and useful assistants toeach other. If they met with difficultiesby the way, they would take each other by•the hand to support them, (Eccies. iv. 10.]2.) in dangfersy they would counsel and28stand by one another; in sorrows theyvnuld sympathise and comfort one another*if beset with enemies, one would watchwhile the other slept; if one were sick, theother would comfort with cprdia!?* (Cqi. iii.2.) if one were indisposed tn mind, the o-ther would divert with some sweet sons?discourse concerning the pleasant land;' ifone were at a loss concerning any part ofthe way the other wouh: ^jst in .uarchin^and explaining the. dim!ions ; if one wereready toturn aside, the other would cautionand admonish ©f the danger : !if one wereemployed in any service, the other wouldbe ready to assist therein; lif one found arefreshing spring by the way, Would call theother to come and drink ; if one tound anyrefreshing fruit, sweet spices, or delightfulflowers, would pluck and bring to the other;it one heard any joyful tidings, would comerejoicing and tell the'Othcr,'if one had anypleasant prospects of the kingdom, wouldendeavour to shew theiW to the other ; ifone was blessed with any special favours,the other would congratulate and rejoiceon the occasion, 6cc: (Eccles. iv* 9.;,. ;Then I was convinced, that two are betterthan one ; and yet it was manifest that theywere no more tw ain, for 1 knew not whe¬ther to call them two souls dwelling in onebody, or one soul inhabiting two bodies; rbut it appeared very conspicuous, that tw«were become on*.V24So I still observed this truly united pair (Marks. 8.) advancing in the way, for they greatly con¬tributed to help each other forward ; many diffi¬culties they surmounted, and many rich blessingsthey enjoyed, as they travelled in the way ; at lastthey arrived at a pleasant hill in view cf the Landof Promise, foil of delights, refreshing fruits,pure streams, and desirable entertainments. Herethey first sat down, and rested in a delightful ar¬bour, blessing God, and congratulating one ano¬ther, in consideration of their enjoyment. Thenthey went and refreshed themselves among thefruits and fountains, ahd afterwards they ascendedto a tower, where was a large prospective glass,from whence they looked back upon Babylon, andsaw it all in flames, and the country turned toburning,pitch. Ihen they gave praise and gloryto God for their wonderful deliverance they hadin the way. Then they took a prospect of the landbefore them, and saw Jerusalem, the Royal Pa¬lace, the goodly Mountain of Lebanon, the clus¬ters of fish col, and all the rivers flowing withmilk, and the hills dropfi^fi: down sweet wine ?Then they looked befcWPiW tne streams of Jordan,and beheld the great High Priest, in his shiningrobes, waiting to carry them over, Psalm xxiii.4. Isa. xxxiu. 21. Rev. xix. 8. But I awoke*and behold it was a Dream.But the thing was certain, and the interpre¬tation therecf'stmE.v'Tij I**ft c ■*FINIS.MU