Blythfome BridalOR, THELafs wi' the Gouden Hair,TO WHICH ARR ADDED).A NEW TOUGH on the TIMES.LOVE AND LITHIS IS NO MINE AIrGLASGOW,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBSaltmarkst, iPo3.( 2 )THE BLYTHS0ME BRIDAL.Y let *js a’ to the Brulal,J[ for there will he hiving there,For Jockey's to be warryM to Maggy,the lafs wi’ the goaden hair.And there will be lahgkail and porrage,and bannocks of birley-nvea!:_Anu there wrill be good fa't hevring,to relilh a cog o’ good a!f\Fy let us a’ to the Bridal, the.And there will be Sandy the fern ter,and Will wi' the meikle m?^u',And there will be Tarn the bluter,with />idrew the tinker l trow:And there will be bow'd legged Robbie,with thutnblefs Katy’s goodman ;And there will be blue-cheeked Dowbie.and Lowrie the laird o’ the lan'. Fy, &c.And there will be fow-libber Patie,and pluky-fac'd Vv at i’ the mill,Capper-nos'd Patie and Gibbie,that wins in the brow o’ the hill jAnd there will be Alaf^er Sibbie,wha in wi’ black Berne did mool,With fnivcling Lilly and Tibby,the lafs that (lands aft on the RookFy lefus a’ to the Bridal, &c.( 3 ^And Madge that was buckled to Steenie,and coft him grey breeks to his arfe,Wha after was hangit for fteaHng,great mercy it happen’d na warfe;And there will be glced Geordy fanners,and Kate wi* tlie lily-white leg,Wha gade to the foiuh for manners,and bang’d up her w? me in Moas-Meg. &c.Arid there will be fad an Maclawrie,and blinking daft Barbara Macieg,!\Vi‘ fiae-lugged fharr.cy-fac’d Lawrie,and fltangy-mov/d halaket Meg,And there will be hanper-ars’d Nancy,and fairy-fac'd Rowrie by name,Wi’ Madie, and fat-hippet Girfy,Ithe lafswi* the geudea wame. Fylet &c.And there v/ill be girn-again Gibbie,wi’ his glaiket wife jenny Bell,And mifle-fibu’d Mungo Macapie,the lad that was {kipper himfeil.There lads and kffes in pearling,wiil feaft in the heart o’ the ha*,On fybows, and ri^ards, and carlings,that are baith fodden and raw. Fy let, &.c«And there will be fadges and brochan,vV fouth o* good gabbocks o* Ikate,Powlow'dy, f.nd drommock, and crowdy,and caller'nowt-feet in a plate,And there will be part an s and buckle s,:and wbytens, and liv'ddh.igs tnew.i( 4 )Wi* fheep'hcadi. and a baggies,an«. fca dips to {‘up till you fpew. t'y let &c.iind there will be iapper’d-milk kebbocks,and fowens and farls, and bap?,VJl* fwats and werl fcraped paunches,and brandy in Itoups and in capsAnd there- will be meal-kail and cultocks,, wi* Ikiak to lup tiij we rive.And roads to roaft on a brandcr,01 fleuks that was taken alive. Fy.let, &c.Scrapt haddocks wi!k<, dalle and tangle,and a mill of good fmflbng to prie ;When we -ry with eating and drinking,we’!! rtle up and dance till we die.Then fy let us a* to the Bridal,for the^e will be lilting there.For Jockey’s to be marry*d to Maggy,the iais wi’ the gouden hair.A NEW TOUCH on the TIMES.r'l F, O K G E he is the mildeft King,jr that ever fat o: Britain’s throne.Behold how wif-ly he has acted,to his fu! j- dts every one.But we’re of a rebellious naturev*and mr mi d- are ne’e r content.Like vile the moft of ow r fled' . sare on the Kmg and Parliament*( 5 )I'Tbcre^ Quakers, New-lights, Independents,Metuodill?, and iwadie^ too,Thoi'e Minions and Finions, fare they not a filthy crew.1 Thofe Hypocrites they- live amongft us,our reiigicn they dcfpile.Empty fools without foundation,neither loyal, juft:, nor wifeI Our Churchmen they are little better, *if the truth it were well known,1 They take the King for tSritatn’s head,but part oPs lav/ they will not owa. .,,ris brotherly love’s gone from amongfi: us,neighbours they cannot agree,They fpend their money on the law,anti bring themfelves to poverty.'Tis reck’ning, {harping, and deceiving,his hard to §nd a man that’s juft jJBecaufe they Mdom find the way,to pay the thing they take in cruft.There's dicemen, (bowmen mountain-failors,I people pretending to be dumb }Fortune-tellers and quack-dodors,by fuch vagrants we’re undone.Our merchants buy up meal and corn,beef and butter, and oar theefc.Sends it out to foreign countries,for to maintain our enemies*r 6 )But now of h?e we -are r^formed^that tliflr jiijps are ..ns’ners ta’tn,Who were goiug with provifior,the French army to maintain.The French have got our men and money,deny this neighbours if you dare.And for your thanks you phiaiy fee,they reward you with op*.n war.Dutchmen too that treach’rous crew,icr prelervatioh of their trace.They promis’d to aiTid the French,ahho’ they were with us in 1 rogue.Before the war, diftrefs’d and poor,both high an i mighty row they're grown.To them we gave a great collection,and had not pew’r to help our cvm.Foreigners we did enccnrage,ay dear neighbour that is truth ;Good Scotch-ale and Highland-whifky,* had no reiifh in our mouth.Brandy and rum we chufe to drink,and many a coftiy thing befide.There’s nothing that appears amongft-us,but perfect poverty and pride.Now ol>ierve the pride of women,how they walk, w » i'fuch an air,With ribbons, tings, taides and fans,captiCuiuvS aiiu loirUvauC bare.Our fcrvsnt-maids nre now fo proud,they do r?femble their Ladies near,lhey have fo many ne.w made dreffes.. they fcarcc can tell what garb to wear.Painting and patches for their faces,in the faibior. they mull be;The pooreft wife in all the town,each morning fhe mufi: have her tea.Our men are grown fo void of reafon,often leaves their wedded wife,I Cimung for to keep up a mifs,they're weary’d of a marry’d life.1 Women for to leave their hufbands,is not that a tiouble fm; Enough to bring on us a judgement,and confume the land wre’rc in.,0 grant us peace and unity,for certainly we may confider,I That now the world rs near an end,| for each mao drives to cheat another.LOVE A N D L I F E.JTN love and Hfc the prefent ufe.One hour we grant the next refufe ;I Who then woifld ri(k a nay ?Were lovers wife, they would be kind,And in our eyes the moments find,For only then they may.■I?TBlS'is no MINE AIN HOUSE.rT"'‘ H I S is no mine ain houftr,-l { ken by the rigging o’t :-Since with my love I’ve changed vows,! dinna like the bigging o t:For now that I’m. young Robie’s bride,And miftrels of his fire--fide, *Mine ain houfe 1*11 like to guide.And plcafe me wi’ the trigging crt.Then farewel to my father’s houfe,I gang where love invites me :The ftrickft duty this allows,When love with honour meets me.Wken Hymen moulds us into ane,My Robie’s nearer than my kin.And to refufe him were a fin,Sae lang’s he kindly treats me.When 1 am in mine aln houfe,True love {hall be at hand ay.To ra^ke me flill a prudent fpoufe,And let my man command ay, *ftAvoiding ilka caufe of ftrife,The common peft of human life,That makes ane wearied of his wife.And breaks the kindly band ay.i——i—WiimGLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarket, 1801;