FUN LrON UN^OE, THECOMICAL MERrlY TRICKSOFLEPER the TAYLOR.IN TWO PARTS.TO -WHICH ARE ADDED,THEGrand Solemnity of the Taylor’s Funeral,WHO LAYNine Nights in State on his own Shop Board.TOGETHER. WITH HISLAST WILL £t TESTAMENT.Entered, according to Order,THECOMICAL AND MLRRY TRICKS'.'V- »orLEPER THE TAYLOR.PART I.LePER’b father lived in a village aboutfix miles from Glafgow, and died whenLeper was but very young, he left a widowand three children, two daughters and a fon,and Leper being the youngeft, was greatlyidolized by his mother, who was a good foftnatured woman, very induftrious, and fol¬lowed the bufmefs of bleaching of cloth.As Leper grew up. he turned a very mif-chievous boy, playing tricks on the neigh¬bourhood,! fuch as, tying cats to dogVtails,breaking hens’ legs, ftpping peoples’ lumbsor chimney-tops ; fo - that his poor motherwas fadly vex’d with complaints againft him.To get him kept from nlifchief, file pre¬vailed with a tayl-r to take him an appren¬tice, he fettled and was very peaceable forfome time, until he had got fo much of thetrade on his finger-ends, as he might pafsfor- a j< urneyman, and then he was indiffe¬rent whether he flay’d wnh*Jhis mafter ornog ; his miflrefs gave him Vdfy little meatwhen they wrought at iiome, fo he loved 1beft to be in other houfes, where he gotboth meat and diverfion.I 4 Leper being revived on revenge againllhis miftrefs, for her thin k til, nb kitchen,and little bread ; for tho’ flelb wasrb. iled inIthe pot, none for poor Leper and his mailer,but a Ifttle bit on Sabbaths, and all the boneswere kept, and put in the pot, to makethe broth thro’ the week. Leper perceivedalways when (he took off the pot, fhe turnedher back to them and took out the flelh,:and fct it cn a Ihelf within her own bed;one night alter work, l;s Heals out a pan,cuts a piece of fiefh out of a dead horfe, thengoes to a lime-kiln and boils it; next daypis mailer being from home, his landladyand him being in the hotife, after file hadfet oti the pot as uiual, and taken out her>it ol good beef, he goes out for fome time,and then comes in, fayipg, “ The mini-‘ ller’s lafs is wanting you to go dire&ly‘ and Ipeak to her millrefs Away jfhe goesn all hafle, Leper runs and takes away heriiit of good beef, and lays down his horfe-iefh, and knowing, Hie would foon returnn a paflion, and fit d< wn with a folfe in,er citfhion’d chair, as ihe qfed, he takes; great big prin and Haps it Hraight up thro*he cufluon, with its head on the chair and(he. point to her back-ficle,: In fhe comes in■ and down jhe fra ,with all her weightn the prin-point, and there roars out.Murder, murder, for Ihe was Hicket thro*the a-fe,” the neighbours came running in,"nd Leper got fafe out, with hi? bit of g*.od( 4 }hcef, leaving the wives to do&cr his land:Indy’sdonp as they pleal'ed; he Ilili denied the,doing of ir, and his mailer believed it rnighhhappen accidentaliy but the Houdie waevery often to be had, before the hole was gbiheal again; and his landlady by eating pf'tha’fhcrfe^beef, took a loathing atflefn, fo Lepenand his mailer got all }he beef to eat ever after:and'bis landlady turned one of the kind'ef:miilrefles a prentice could wifh for.There was a neighbour-wife on whicStLeper ufed t;> play tricks fdmetinies, fo|which file came and complained to his mafter,and gof him feverely beaten feveral timesLeper refolved to be revenged on her, fone dav he came to the backfide of her houia(no body being within but herfelf,) and too!xtp a big ifene, and runs it along the rougwall with all his f rce, which roared likthunder in the ir.fide of the houfe, and iffjghred'the wife, that fhe thought the holdwas tumbling down about her e,ars! Uponwhich fite ran out, snd h.t down at a diilanc<lucking when the houfe would tail down, tiher hufband came home, to wlmm fhe to!the above {lory : Hout, daft taupie, faid Lithe heufe will {land theie hmidtr years.-So, by his perfijrfion, they both went mlthe lu ufc. Leper knowing they were both iicomes b ck and ph-ys the lame trick ov<again ; ♦v!':rh frighted ;thr good man alfomuch, that ire cried a;:, ii-n Maggy, ru:C 5 )for ray heart plays a' pi tty patty! Apd theywould not lodge in the h >ufe any ra re,till the mafiiis c onvinced them of the iJ2L-ciencv cf the houfe.JThere was another neighbour who hada fiiarling curr dog, which bit Leper’s leg :Leper revived to be rev< nged on the dog;and fo, one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to tne kirk, where the rope ofthe bell hang upon the outfiie ; f > with hisgarter he tied the dog’s fore-foot to the rope,and left him hanging: The dog Itruggling toget free, fet the belt a-ringing, which alarmedthe whole village 1 and every one cried cut.Wonderful, firs 1 wonderful, firs ! the de’ilis ringing the bell ! Wnen they faw theblack colley hanging at the rope, I true itfet the Min'Iter and all the people to theirprayers. Bn Leper fearing he would befound out by bis garter, came to the Mini-iter’s fide, and afked the reverend gentle¬man, what was the matter: Indeed my bairn,faid he, it’s the devil ringing the kirk-bell.Says Leper, I’ll go and fee him, for I neverfavv the de’il. The Mini Her cry’d, Stopthat mad1 laddie : But Leper ran and loofedthe dog, crying, It s fuels a man’s dog,which had tfie.r pe in his teeth. They allcried out, Tlie de’il is in the dog, the de’ilis i■* the dog! and took up ftenes and fell’dpoor colley; and the dc'il g-1 the blamecf niakittg the dog r ing the bed. This i nread( 6 )I.?p3; V faire, for feeing one of the wifefland moft touragtous taylors tl>at was in allthe kangdi m ; and many lhaking their heads,.• aid, “ It was a pity he was a taylor, but*■ a captain or general or an army, as the“ devil could n< t fear him.”t *07^After th?s, a farmer in the neighbour¬hood, hearing the fame of Leper, how hehad frighted the de’’ 1 frae being a belUman,,lent fur him to an ale-houfe, and drank with <him very heartily, and told him, that he wasiadly born down with the fpirit of jealoufyagain ft his wife, on fulpicion of being too-free with a fervant-lad ihe had before, andif he would keep it fecret, and fearn himhow to find it our, he would give his mothera load of meal; to which Leper and himagreed, and he gave the poor fuppofed cuckodiniiruftions how to behave. Sa home he goesand fe;"ns himfelf to be very lick, and everydav worfe and worle : taking death to him,he called for his three fmall children, bleliedthem, and charged his wife not to marry untilhis children could do f-me thing for them-felves : This hypocritical woman takes theroaring, A-ha, marry! fhe would never marry! 1No, no, there fliall niwer man ly by my ftde,nor kifs my lips after thee, my lamb Johnny.Then he afted the dying man as well as,pol-fibly he.could; the neighb mrs were calU in,“ and he’s fair o’erfeen,” as the old laying |is, “ bef re gcod neighboursthe farrowful t“ he has twa new linen farks, and there is“ an auld ane in the b ttom the kill it“ nae body can wear, ju!i tak it, .my thing“■ is g!*f>d enough for the grave-’' We.U., laidthey, we mull have fume linen for a wind¬ing {beet. “ A-weel, co’ file. I hae twa cut“ linen in the kill, but there is a j.;air o’“ auld linen llreets, hol’d in the mids, may“ do well enough, l had need to be Carcfai*44 I’m a pw r widnv the day, wi’ three ima*“ bairns.” A-vveel, the corpfe is drtfs’d, andlaid on the top of a big chefl, while the neigh¬bours fat by her condoling her misfortune, and “ordering how the funeral raifms were to beprovided. Said one, the coffin mull be feenabout hi-fi : ”■ Ay, ay, faid ihe, he has fume“■ new deals in the barn, that he bought tot 41 make a bed 0’* but we'll no b-eak them;” there is the auld barn-door and. the caffi kill“ will do well enough, fur ony thing’s good“ enough to gang to the grave. But O, co’fhe, fend for Sandy, rr.y honed auld fervauw“ and he’ll fee every thing right done; I’U“ tell him where lyg>*il get itiler to dq ony” thing wi’; he’s th-e lad that will not lee me*’ wrang’d.” Thera Sandy comes wrying hisface and rubbing h ,i3 eyes, “ O Sandy,Sandy.there is a fad a’.kera'i.jn here 1” and ba-a-aU't 'Jties kkt ■ t 1 ;ttsc. calf T O urs I * til( 8 )ye gang a’ butt the heme, till I tell, Sane!3what to do ? Butt they go. an there fli<fell a-killing of Sandy, and fa id, “ Nowniy' dear, the auld channering gh iild is awa’:and vve’H get our will 0’ itlier ; mind to beas haining of every thing as ye can, feithou kens it’s a’ thy ain. But the corpiVsfiller and force other people came in, r.ncSben they came to fee the cornfe; lifts thacloth from ofi’ his face, and feeing him allin a pour’of fweat, faid, Hegh, he is a bpnnycofp, and a lively colour! When he could!rio longer contain to carry on the j -he, butUp he get aniongfi them. A deal of thepeople rau fhr it, and his wife cried out,O my dear,' do ye ken me? Ay, ye batejade and whore, better than ever I did.—,Up he jumps to the floor, and gets’,.is Ha IT;runs after Sandy, and catches him in a fielda little from the houfe; gives him a heartybeating, never telling him fur what•, returnsto the houfe, ate and drank with his fillerand neighbours who had come to fee hiscorpfe. Poor Sandy went home with a fkin-ful of terror, and a forting of lore bones;took a fore fever, and died in a few daysafter. So he got quit of his cockier, andLeper’s mother got her meat.Leper’s mother was a careful indufi.jfi.ous_wife, but . ns the by-word i?, A workingmother makes a daiv daughter and fi> ft:happened here, for ihe had tvva idle, gi'?’Ket;■ ' , 1. •! flats of daughters, that would do nothing1 but ly iti their bad in the ir,writing., fill, r.a1 the faying is, 1 he inn was like to barn a' hole in their backfides. The old woman* being at this time bafy bleaching f me clbtli,*' was very early at work in the moinings, andLeper’s patience was worn out with tuelazinefs of his twro iiiters, and he ref at ed toplay a trick on them, for their reformation:i 'So he goes and gets a mortcloth and fpreads■! it upon the bed above them, and i'end's thedead-bell thro1 the town, inviting the'peopleto his filters’ burial the next day, at four: -o’clock afternoon, for they had died fuddenly.This brou lit ad the neighbour-wives id;who one after another lifted the moftcloth,and fald, with a great ligh, They’re goneto their reft, a fad den call indeed !, Titetraunt hearing of this fudden news, carb.erunning in all lie tie, and coming through thegreen where their mother was at work,who was ignorant oi the ftory, live cries cut,Fy upon you, woman, fy upon you ! What’sthe matter, lifter. ? fays the mother. Sa1 athe aunt, I iliink ye may let your wori;Hand for ae day, when vour dau ghters' are}y\n£ corpfe.— Mv hAirn^'ccvpfe v fevtj ihe ;1 am fare they vycnt t-o bed heat and haftlaftnight. But I tell ‘yah, fay's the her .After,the dead-bell has been through the ‘town,warning the folk to the burial! Then the■mother cried out. •‘O tbfc vHla’m! r e-villain, that he did! not fend me wuru !they both rap ; and the mo-her, as foon as fhojentered the houfe, flies into the-bed, crying^“ O my bairns, my dear bairns ! On whichthe flats riles up in a conflernation,. to thekgreat furprize of the beholders, and to the;great diverhtm of the whole town, and to the fgreat mortification of the girls, who thoughtfhame to fet their noies out of doors.j^r.PER and his maftcr went to a gentle¬man’s houfe to work, where there was a faucyhoufe-keeper, who had more ignorance andpride than good fenfe and manners ; for fhedomineered over her fellow.-fervants in atyrannical manner: Leper refolyed to mortifyher pride; fo he finds an ant’s neli, and takestheir white eggs, and grinds them to powder,and puts them into the difii that her flipperibwens was to be put in. After fhe hadtaken her flipper, as fhe was covering thetable, the findck-powder began to operate,and flic let a great fart! Well done Margaret,fays the Laird. She runs away f r fhame,but before fhe turned herfeif round, fhe g4yesanother raird: *' By my tegs, lays the laird,“ Margaret, your arie would take a cautu n-“ er!” Before fine got out of the chamber-door, flte lets fly another crack! then (hegoes to order her fellow-iervant to give theLaird his fupper, but before fire cotud givethe needfary directions, Ore gave fire again !which fet them all a-laughing; fhe. runs to aroom by hurfelf,, and there Jhe rdaved a.wa.yher one gun battery fo faft, as {he had beenfieging the Havannah- The Laird and theLady came to hear the fun, and were like tofplit their Tides at proud Maggy’s cannonad¬ing. So next morning fhe left tae place,j to the great joy of her fellow feryants.Tbe End cf the First Part.* XXXXXXXHSXX XX -+ 4-X XXaXXXX • X'XX XX*P A 11 T II.Leper’s Landlady became very harihto his mailer, and very often abufed himexceeding fore, with both tongue and hands,and always chided upon him for fome moremoney, and to have all the money in herkeeping, which vexed Leper very much.—It fo Happened cne day, after the taylorhad got a hearty drubbing with tongue andtongs, that he pouch’d his thimble, and wasrgoirsg to make a Queen, of her ! When firedaw that, fhe cried out, “ O will ye leave me,“ a poor, tender, dying woman P, But Leperknowing toe caufe of her curfed .ill-nature,better than his mailer did, adviftd him totake her, on a fine day, about a rrulc^t ofthe town, and give her a. walk, and ne wouldflay at home, and (ludy a remedy fox her,diforder. — Awaa they b th went, but asflic was always complaining of l^er .health,and that fhe was very weak, .ike cry’d outlenrly, O it is a crying fm, to tak^ awinna ia my coouicion -mt o'pr a door.Daring their abfeace, Leper goes and Larch¬es her bed, and belo»v the bolder he getsa bottle of rare whilky, of which he takesa hearty pull, and then pidles in it, to makeit up again; gets,a halfpenny worth of fnuff,and puts it in alfo, flaakes all together, aadthen fets it in its place again. Home theycame again, and fne v/as as exceedinglyddlreiFed as a v/oman could be, and cry’d oat,It was a horrid thing to take her out o’ ahoufe. The taylor feeing her L bad, tlioughtHie would have died, and rah as fall as hecould, and brought her a dram; but ike, inherhypocrify, pretended Ihe could not take it,and defired him to help her to her bed.—Intoher bed he lavs her; and be was not wellgone, until Ihe fell to her bottle, taking twoor three hearty gluts: then Ihe roars out Mur¬der) for (be was poilbned, ihe was poiLned !Hocking and purging began, and the neigh¬bours were called in; ihe leaves her bloodon poor Lep<jr, and tells how fuch an honcllwoman brought her ae bottle as another was.done, and the murdering lown had fb.le it,and put in a b >ttle of pmfn in Read of it.—L-per took to his heeis, but was purfued andcarried before a Juilice of Peace, where hetold what he had dune, whrch made theJutlice laugh heartily at the j ke, and. thetaybr’s wife was well purged, both from herfeigned fickneb, lazinefs, and cuffed ill-( 13 )lature, for always when file began to curlher nofe for the future, the taylor had nonore to fay but, O Maggy, Maggy, mind| the bottle!LerEn was working with a mailer taylorin Glaigow, who hungered his men : Andone morning juft as the breakfaft was feecu the table, in comes a gentleman to tryci a fuit cf clothes; the mafter being obit- „ged to rife, drfired the lads to fay the gracettemfelvec; every one refufed it, and put kt* his neighbour, till Leper took it uponhm, and laid as follows, with an audible■voice, that the ftranger gentleman mightoverhear him : “ Oh, hoch, we are a parcelo' poor beaftly bodies, and we’re as beaftlyglided ; if we do not work, we get nothingt* eat; yet we are always eating, and al¬ways fretting; fidging and Jialf-falling isIke to be our fortune, fcartings and ferap-ings are the molt of our mouthfu’s; wewould fain thank thee for thy futnefs, ifever it were L; but the reit of our benefac¬tors are not worth the acknowledging.—Kech hey, Amen*” Which made tile gentle-! man laugh? ti:l he heltl his tides, and gateLeper half a crown to drink.Lr.v; a was not long done wish his appren-liceliup till he frt op for limfelf, and geta journeyman and an appma i »e, was Cominginto very -gecd bufmefs, and had he reft rained. [ 14 Jliis roguifh tricks wight have done very well.*He and his lads being employed work in^a farmer’s houfe, where the goodwife wts,a great mifer, and not very cleanly in mak¬ing ready of meat, and fnivel’d greatlywhen Ihe fpoke. In the morning when fiewent to make their pottage, file made afafhion of walhing the pot, which by ap¬pearance, feemed to him to be amongft tiefirft pots that had been made ; then Hie letit down before the fire, till Ihe went to newell, in which time leper looking into t,fees two great holes in the bottom floppedwith clouts, he takes up his goofe, and hollsit as high as his head, then lets it fall intothe pot, which knocked out the bottom of t.Prefently in comes the wife with the wats*,and pours it into the pot, which fet all tiefire-fide in a dam ; for Hill as fhe poured h,it ran out: The wife being Ihorbfightel,or what they call fand-blind, fhe looks intothe pot, holds up both her hands, and cmc,ei The lofii preierve me, firs! for the gr patween the holes is hr Ten.” Says Leper,the pot was old enough; but do not you ker,that: taylor’s pottage is heavier than otherm^n’s ? “ Indeed, lad, laid Ihe, I believe“ it is fae ; hut they fay ye’re a Vv arloc'k,“ it’s Wednefday a’ the vrarld o’er, and a“ wofu’, Wednel'd’ay to me indeed ; my pot“ might ha’e lafted me this fifty years, a lae“ wad it e’en.” Tnis fport diverted Leperand his lads thro’ the day; and alter fupper,;knowing he was to get but fome dirty bed,as the cows and the people lived all in oneapartment, he chufed rather to go home; andknowing the moon was to rife a little aftermidnight, they fat long by the fire, and toldthem many a fine flory to drive away thetime, and bade the wife go and make theirbed, to fee how it might be to fave candleihe made it in the dark, directly on the floorbehind w here they fat, lhaking down twobottles of ftraw : A calf, which chanced tobe lying on that fpot, and which the wife didnot notice, was covered up with the flraw,and the bed-clothes fpread over all. Themoft of the family being gone to bed, thewife told them feyeral times to go to bed alfo;but Leper knowing of the calf, faid, I’llmake my bed come to me; on which thewife began to pray for herftdf, and all thatwas in the^houfe; fo up he gets his elwand,and gives a ftruke on the bed, w'hich cauledthe brute to get up, and not feeing whereto go, it fell a-crying, and turning round,which fet the v. h le cows in the houfe a roar-ing^out murder, in their own tongue ! Thewife ran to the bed ab^vc the goedman, andthe whole family cried out, not knowingwhat it was, but L-dcr and Ins two ladswhipp’d the blankets off the brute, and itran in ann-ngS the cows unperceived ; thenLeper lighted a caudle, and ail of ihem g-tout of bed, paid Leper f >r his woik, andmure if he pleafed, and begged him to go( 16 )* 'Iaway, and take the devil with him. Sohome he went, but never was employed bythat wife more.Lkper had a deal of the bell cuftomers,both in town and country. So one time hehad occafton to go to the parish of Inchinanto make a wedding fait for a gentleman :After they were nmilled, he afked driak-fnoney to his lads, which the gentleman rt-fufed: Leper refolved to be even with him';fo goes up to the hay-loft where the groomllept, and takes his Hookings, breeches andjacket, fews them altogether, and Huffs themfoil of hay, makes a head, puts a rope aboutthe neck, and hangs it on a tree oppofite tothe Laird’s window, then goes to the Laird,and tells him, that his groom had hangedhinilelf, andAhst if he would open his win¬dow, he would fee him hanging. The Laird,ilniok with a{fon'fliment,knew not how to do:Leper advife's him to bury him privately.The Laird fa id, he had not a fervant he couldtrull ; fo begged of Leper to Vo it. Leper re¬futed, till the Laird promt fed him a load ofmeal: Then Leper pulls all the hay out of thegroom’s clothes, goes and gets his load ofmeal, and fends it to GlafgovO •; then goes tothe groom, and favs haftiiy, Lad, thy made*-,is wanting' thee. So the lad, in a hade,runs to fee what his mafftr’wanted; the Lairdiv fooner law him opening the door, thanhe cry’d out, Avoid Voce Satan, avoid thee( *7 )Satan ? The lad fays. What’s the matter.Sir? What’s the matter? Did not you hangyourfdf this morning ? Lord forbid ! faidthe lad. The Laird fays, If thou be anearthly creature, take that tankard and drink.Which he did. Then fays lie to liis mailer.Leper called me up, and faid you wanted mein all hade. Ho, he! fays the Laird, I findout the ftory now; if I had Leper, I wouldrun my fword thro’ him. But Leper, beforethat, was away for Glafgow with his meal.L;r,cR w’as in ufe to give his lads theirSunday’s fupper, which obliged him to Hayfrom the Kirk in the afternoon, he havingneither wile nor fervant-ma d. So, upon aSunday afternoon, when, at heme cookinghis pot, John Mucklcrcheeks and James P flf-and-bhw, two Civileers, having more zealthan knowledge, came upon him, and faid,What’s the matter, Sir, you go not to theKirk? Leper replied, I am reading mybook, and jpooking my, pot, which I thinkis the work of ae'ceflity. Then fays theone to the oilier,, Don't ar.fwer the grace-lefs fellow, we’ll make him appear beforehis betters. So they took off the kail-pet,aad puts a lUff thro* the bowls, and bears itto the Clerk’s Chamber. I.eper, who wasn *ver at a lofs for invention, goes to thePrincipal of the College’s houfe, no bodybeing at homt but a lath roaiimg a leg ol( IS )mutton ^L^per fays, “ My dear, will ye“ and bring a pint of ale, and I’ll turn the?“ fpit ’till ye come back ?” The lafs was|no fooner gone, than he runs away with the?leg of mutton, which fervect his lads and himfor their fupper. When the Principal camelhome, he was neither to bin nor hand, hewas fo angry. Sor on Monday, he goes andmakes complaint to the Lord Provofi, whofends two • facers for Leper, who broughthim immediately. My Lord afked him,“ How he dared to take away the Principal’s :“ mutton ?” Leper replied, “ How came“ your Givileers to take away my kail-pot M“ I am fure there’s Id’s fin in making a pot-“ full of kai!r than ruafting a leg of mutton,“ Law makers flxould not be law-breakers ;“ fo I demand jullice on the Givileers.”The Prov ft aflced him, “■ What juftice he.“ would have ? Says he, u M .ke them carry“ the pot back again; aiad as for he Princi-'“ pal, a leg of mutttn won’t make him and” me fall out.” So they we$e forced tocarry the pot back, and Leper caufed thebays to huzza after them in difgrace.There was, a barber which always plaguedLeper, calling him a Prick the-Louie; Leperrefolved to be even with him ; lo he goes andbuys three (keep .heads, and fends for thebarber, and told him, that there were threeSouthland gentler»en come to his houfe,who wanted to be lhaved, and he allured( 19 )ihim, he would receive fixpence for each ofthem This good news made the (haverifend for a dram. Leper was dill praifingthem for quiet good-natured gentlemen,-—iS Lep r takes him to the bed where theI flieep-heads lay covered, and defired him to.waken them, for they would, not be angry,: or fay an ill W' rd to him, the barber lifts: the covering, and feeing the (heep heads, •i runs out curfmg and fwearing, and Leper; crying after him, “ Sheep-head barber.”The Barber refolved to be revenged on! Leper, f when he was (having Mels John,1 he tells him, that Leper was the drunkenedI fellow in the parifh; fj Mefs J«'hn warnsI him to the feffnn : Leper comes and fays,1 “ What do ou want with me. Sir? Come” away, Leper, fays Mefs j hn. I hear a” bad report (>f you.” —-k Me, Sir! I am” fure they were m t my friends that told“ you that.” — Indeed, I am informed you“ are a great drunkard.—I a drunkard ! you“ have not a fuberer man in your parifh:“ Stay, Sir, I’ll tell you how I lead my life:*’• In the morning I take a choppin of ale, and” a bit of bread, that I call my morning:—; *{ F rbreakfaft I generally take a herring and” a choppin of ale, for t cannot fup brofe like” my lads ; the herring makes me dry, fo at” eleven ho urs I take a pin!; at dinner another“ pint; at four afternoon my comrades and: ” I join, f metimes we are a pint and fome-1( 2° )times three choppins; at fupper 1 take a bitdof bread and cheefe and a pint, and fo I gcto bed. Mels John fays, It’s extravagant.Sir, it’s excefiive drinking; I allow you theone half of it for a quarter of a year. SaysLeper, I’ll try it, Sip, and come back andtell you. At the end of the quarter, he drawsout his account, and goes to Mel's John, whoWas fitting with his elders in theSellion-houfe,:and lays, Sir, I have a demand on you.me, Sir? Yes, on you, Sir- Don’t you re¬member, you allowed me fo much drink fora qinrter of a year, and I want the money ?Am I to pay your reckoning, Sir? You al¬lowed it, and if you won’t pav it, I’ll take:you before the Proyoil. The Elders advifedhim to pay it, or he would be affronted.—So Leper got the money. When he was atthe door, he fays, Sir, will ye Hand anotherquarter? Get away, faysMefs John, and don’ttrouble me. Says Leper, I’m fure you may,for I was always twopence to your penny.Tfli; LNO or THE SECOND PAIif.theGrand Solemnity of the Taylorls Funeral,.WHO LAYNine Days in Sta te on his own Shop Board.r~PHIS Taylor, in his life-time defired.That all thofe who came to attend hisfuneral, might be handfome-iy entertained( 21 )with a halfpenny roll, and a pint of ale, inmemory of the many breakfafls he had madein his life-time: And furthermore defired,That thofe who were his neardt relationsand chief mourners, inflead of a mourning¬ring, might be prefented with a Taylor’sThimble, in memory of liis own trade, andround the rim to have this motto engraved:CHALK JS NOT SCISSAl'.S.Round the room hung divers remnants ofblack cloth, of the Taylor’s own cabbaging,for he was very honed that way, and nevercabbaged but a quarter out of a yard. Atthe four corners of the room flood fourwoolen-drappers, lamenting the lofs of fogood a cullotner, with each of them a whitewand in his hand, juft a yard long, wantingan inch, and a parchment label hanging ontheir fhoulders, with this motto :The Taylcr has finisbtd bis work.And now be is gone to receive bis wages.At the head of :he Taylor’s coffin, floodthe good triumphant, the cabbage blazoned,and the cucumber argent. On the lid ofhis coffin was engraven, on a brafs plate,this applicable motto ?I am new like an old Garment.At the foot of the coffin was the fheerspendent, the bodkin rampant, and the thim¬ble enclofed in three ermins.( 22 )When the Corpfe was conveyed dov'nflairs, each perfon was ferved decently roundwith a leaf of red cabbage, inftead of a fprigof rofemary. Then the Gorpfe was hoiiledon the fhoalders of fix Piece-brokers, havingeach of them this motto :Tbe Taylor steals, ije buy.The Pall was fupported by thofe who foldStay-tape, Buckram, and Canvas.The C rpfe was followed down Cloth-fairby thirty-fix Mailer Taylors, each havinga yard in his right hand, with a parchmentflreamer at the end of it, with this motto:We Taylors, by stir art and trade.Do often mend wbat wrong is made.Next followed twenty-four woolen-drapers,two-by-two, an^bearing on their breads thismotto:IVe deal in Wool, but can't forbearTo deal, alas! fometimes in bair.Then followed the like number of But¬ton-makers, wringing their hands with thismotto :1 Man’s but a Button, by my foil!!Tbe very Grave’s a Button-bole.After tnefe, followed a vail number ofcity ricketty hppper-arfed beaux, who hadbeen padded up, and made into a compleatgentleman, by the deceafed limb-trimmer,- ( 23 )drying their watery eyes with fine cambricki handkerchiefs, having the following mottoengraved on their watch-cafes :He's gone who made us human Jhapes,And now vie must again turn apes.But to conclude the procefiion: Laft of allfollowed a numerous crowd of journeymentaylors, who were all llip-fhoed, their [lock¬ings ab mt their heels, their hats off, a fkeinof thread hung carekfly about their necks;and their Ihirt-collars were open, that theymight have liberty to difturb their bofom-friends.—On their left fleeve was a cufhion,whereon {luck abundance of Spanifh andWhitechapel needles. The tails of theirwigs were matted like ho-rfes’ fnanes, juftas if they had come off the fhop.board fromwork. On their left fhunlders each hada long flrip of parchment, whereon was thismotto written:The lice bite us, '‘tis not deny'd.We bite our masters when employ'd;And they bite all the world beside.At the bottom of Cloth-Fair, the Corpfewas arrefted at the fuit of an old herb-wo¬man, for elevenpencer-lrdfpenny, which hadbeen due a long time t • the hag, for cabba¬ges and cucumbers, which the deceafed hadin his life-time ; However, the j^urneymen-taylors manfully releafcd the Corpfe, andafterwards marched on in ample procdfionI )to the houfe of one Ned Kemp, an honefl;;!Piece-broker, where there was a fpacious::grave dug, between a large cabbage anda cucumber plant.The FUNERAL SERMON waspreached by Obadiah Backftitch, and thewords of the text were thefe :jVew Cloth is preferable to old'.After which, the journeymen taylors wereadmitted into the houfe, and each of themferved with a halfpenny roll, and a pint of:!ale, and fo went weeping home, for the lofsof fo good a mailer.THETAYLOR’s LAST WILL.I Will and Bequeath nnto Simon Whip-Hitch, my needle and thimble ; unto PeterNiggle, my (heers and bodkin; and untoMrs. Mary Clip, my pin-cufhion, fluck fullof needles and pins, to which I fewed awatch-chain, key, and feal, with which Iufed to ftrut about like a crow in a gutter.FINIS.Gae canty Book and win a name;Nae lyrics e'er shad ding thee:Hope large efeem, and lasting Janie ^For Leper’s name •will raise thee.