WITTY’AND ENTERTArNlNOEXPLOITSGeo. MuWho was commonly called,THE KING’S POOL,GLASGOW!Printed for the Booksellera.1839./V'■ , WITTY EXPLOITS\ .OFmi GEORGE BUCHANAN.MR GEORGE BUCHANAN was aScotsman born ; and though but ofpoorparentage, made great progrefs in"hwyning. Ag for his understanding andready wit, he exceeded all men then alive>0 that age, that everpropofed queftions tohim. He was fervant or teacher- to KingJames VI., as his Private Counsellor, butpublicly he acted as his Fool.l. There was a bell at Dalkeith, which 'thq Popilh Clergy made ufe of to extortconfeflidns from the ignorant people. Theytold the perfons whom they suspected guiltythat the bell would rive, at the touch of aguilty person ; but, if not guilt}’, it wouldnot. By this means they generally l ightedthe ignorant into confessions, for, if the bellrive, the person was then to be condemnedto death. But they managed so, that t he bellwas never put to the trial, till George did*s follows. 41e- was taken up for saying.That the Pope was fallible himself, and;ou!d not pndou the; sins of others.—3George owned he said fo, Intt would referto the bell,whether he was guilty or hot The•Priests, tho’ unwilling-, were obliged t<5 com¬ply. George touched the bell, repeating asbefore. The Pope is, fallible and cannotpardon sin ; and, moreover, ' added thePope and Popish Clergy are impostors andthereupon touched the bell, referring to itfor the truth. But the bell not renti.v; priests were disgraced as impostors, and he■ was honourable acquitted^ and thelaid aside.George desired a member of theCollege of St. Andrews, to lend him a book,the other told him, that he could not possi-p!y spare it out of his chamber ; but if hepleased, he might come there and read allthe, day long. Some time after, the gentle-nan sends to George to borrow his bcllov. s-Dut he sent him word he could not possiblypare them out of his chamber ; but, that,f he pleased, he might come there and blow11 day if he would.I'l 3 A Scholar, at the Gt'ammar-Schorl’.if St. Andrews, coming into a room whaeis master had laid down a basket of f nenerries for his own eating, the waggish box; kes it up, and cried aloud, I publish li.c|mds between these cherries and my mou:J ,'[ any one know a just cause or impeding,. ,4•w^y these two should not be joined together,let them declare it. The Master being inthe next room, overheard all that was said ;and coming into the School, he ordered theboy wjio had eaten his cherries to be takingup or as he called it horsed on anotherbox'4 hack; but, before he proceeded tothe usual discipline, he cried out aloud, asth^-'delinquent had done, I publish tho bandsbettfreeft this boy's backside and in/ tawsif any one knows a just cause or impedi-meat why these two should net be jofnedljtogether let them declare it. George pas¬sing by in the mean-time overheard this,proclamation, and cried out, 1 forbid thejbands. Why se, says the SchoolmasterBecause the parties are not agreed, said heWhich answer so pleased the Master, tliathe boy was set down without punishmentl4. A young Gentleman,, that wanted tbe witty on the Scriptures, eating sotn|cheese full of mites, one night at a tavernNow, said he, I have done as much sjjSampson, for I have slain my thousand*and ten thousands. Yes, replied Georgrwho happened to be in the companland wbh the same weapon too, the Jaw-bedof an ass. Which answer set the wlmlcompany a-laughing, to sec the young fJbeat with hi* own weapons*.55- George being in a jcimpany where':hree Bishops were present at dinner, theycnowing George to be a real scholar, and:omical withal, they put upon him to sayhe grace, which he did as follows:Here are three brethren of the coat,-Who for thy blissings thank thee not Tf-qr,Curse them all, and bless them not. Ameit*’all on, gentleman, said George, the cause> good. This grace made the Bishopsook like fools to one another, and Georgetughed heartilyat the great confusion the]|fere in.| 6 A Candlemaker having had somerandies stolen from him, wa» telling it ini company where George was present:riend, says George, be of good cheer, fori a short time they will all come to light.1 7. George being sent to Paris about.rme business, went from thence to Ver-.lilies, to see the French king’s Court; and>Eing known there to several of ihe Cour-• ers which had been at the English Court,ne of them took occasion to tell the Fenchling, that George was one of the wittiest;en in England. Upon which the Frenchkiing desired to see him, and he was accord-ligly introduced to his Majesty’s presence6but George, it seems, was out of humour, !or ^east seemingly so, and spoke but very5!-little to the purpose ; so that the French kinafold the Nobleman that commended him for!such a wit, that he looked upon him asja very dull fellow. But the Nobleman||assured the King, that whatever he thoughclof him, George was a very witty and in-fgenious man. Whereupon the King was1resolved to make further trial of him, an<fjtook him into a great gallery, where there]were abunda nce of fine pictures ; and amon|jthe rest, shewed him the picture of oiwSaviour on tl le .cross, and asked him if he]knew who that was ? George, pretending!ignorance, answered, No. Why, says thelKing, I ’ll feU you, if you don’t know .• thisjis the picture of- our Saviour on the cross!and that on the right hand, is the Popes!and that on the left is mine own. Where!upon George replied, J humbly thank youMajesty for the information, for thougl!I have often heard that our Saviour wa|crucified between two thieves, yet l neve!knew; who they were before.8. A sharper, who had acquired vasjriches by cheating, told George, thatsuch a thing as a good name was to Ijipurchased, he would freely give ten thotlsand pounds for one. Sir, said Georgd£ would certainly be the worse Jaid-otif7X?iFn’nl thefmoney in your life. Why so: sharper- Because, answered George, youf would, lose it again in less than in a week.19. One asked George, Why men always ■ .made suit to the women, but the womennever to the men ? Why, says he, becauseIthe women are always ready for themen, but the men are not always ready for!the women.lo. George went into the mint un* Ucxy,i when they were melting gold. One of thei workmen, asked George, if he would havehis hat-full of gold ? George readily accep¬ted, but it burnt the bottom out of his hat,i as they knew it would ; and for that timeithey laughed at George. However, to be1 even with them, George bought a fine largehat, and caused a plate of copper to be putbetwixt the hat and the lining, and returnedI next day. They again, jestingly, asked him,;:if he would have another hat full of golM fI George said he would ; and they poured itred hot into his hat ; and now George be¬gan to laugh at them in his turn, tellingi them, that this new hat was a good one,Band stood fire better -then the old bne, andso carried'it off honestly. And being after-wards prosecuted for to return it, he excused1 himself, telling the Judge, that he took no¬thing but what was given him ; and there-i8fore he was honourably acquitted, and- the;]others were heartily laughed at.ii. In the reign of King James the 6th,j:George dining one day with the Lord Mayor,after two or three healths, the Ministry watossed ; but when it came to George’s tunto drink he diverted it some time by telLing a story to the person who sat next him;the chief magistrate not seeing his toast go-round, called out What sticks the Ministryso ? At nothing cries Ghorge j and so drank;oi± his glass.I2. George being one day along withthe King and his Nobles a-hisnting, andbeing but very sorrily mounted, when hewas spurring up his horse, he observed thehorse have a trick of falling down on hi»knees, George immediately thought h<5vvhe should make use of that very thing to'divert his Majesty ; therefore pretendedthat his horse could set hares : and knowingsome hares’-seats, rode that way to showthe truth of what he affirmed. So whenhe had found the hare, by giving his horsea spar, he immediately clapped down : thishe repeated several times, till he put thewhole company in belief that whnt he had!said was true. Then one of the Nobleman :being charmed with the performance olGeorge’s horse, would have him change9li witli him. George, at first, seemed unwil¬ling to part with his horse but, as last, was' prevailed upon to part with him for the.Nobleman’s horse and a hundred guineasaboot. But afterwards riding tho’ a prettydeep river, the Nobleman spurring his newhofse, he clapped down on his belly ; whichGeorge seeing called out to the companyto return with the dogs, for the Nobleman’ahorse had certainly set a hare y which set:lhe whole company a laughing. 1 he poorNobleman was obliged to leave his horseset in the water and waded through on foottail wet to the shoulders.13. A Scotsman being reduced to povetyimade his court to George, to put him in away to get some money ; who told him hewould, providing he would do as he directedhim. There was an old miser, an usurerrand money-changer, hard by ; George or¬dered the fellow to pretend an errand to;|he miser, and when he came to the tableIwhere the heaps of money lay, to thrustsis hand among the gold, but to lift none,ind run off. This the poor fellow did,ittnd was chased by the miser and his ser¬vants, who ran after him into the street,.■railing. Stop the thief ? The poor fellowSas «topt, (j:br George had desired him tot them catch him.) George appeared indie mob, and went along with the poorJOsnifer fined in a large sum for accusing him, ijAfterwards George desired him to go to jthe same {dace, and thrust in both his hands,and lift up as much as he couid, and run off. iThis he did, but (die Miser told him, he was ,mot such a fool as to fellow him, for heknewhe only desired to play the fool, to have him 1fined again. By this means the qoor fellow'was enriched, and afterwards lived well.14. George being at dinner one day Iwhere the broth was very hot, burnt his, Imouth, and at the same time letting gala loud fart ^ it is very good for you, says he, 1that you made your escape, for I should Ihave burnt you alive, had you staid.15. A young Citrate, with more pertnessthan wit or learning, being asked in com-1pany, how he came to take it into his head!to enter into the ministry oi the church ?|Because, said he, the Lord had need of me. IThat may be, replied George, who wastlpresent, for I have often read, that our Lord|had once treed of an ass.Ambassador into Italy, by the way of Paris ;jand large building of that spacious city.,iifbe King and many of his Nobles in conx-Itpany, as they were walking through theKing’s garden, among the Images of theSaints, they came to the image of the VirginIMary who stood in a melancholy posture,with a babe in her arms : One of the Noble¬men said to the British Ambassador, Dontyou think she looks as if she were angry r0 yes', says George, she is angry when she.tees ’Englishmen and Frenchmen in friend-iship and unity one with another. No, no,raid the French King, she loves nothingbetter then the reconciliation of enemies jpeace and unity is her delight. ThenGeorge sets in below the statue, and look-'mg up, O, says he, I see now what is the.cause she looks so angry-like, somebody hajfdriven a great nail in her backside, I seethe head of it sticking out; it would vexlany living be’s a piece of wood. At thisthe King was greatly enraged against him,'|for calling her a piece of wood ; and noth¬ing would satisfy the King, unlefs that lie.would fall down and -worship her, and crave: mercy of her for the blafphemous reproaeheswherewith he had reproached her. They,George cried out, O may it pleafe y our ,iVlajefty to omit it at this time? I dare notlook her in the face, she frowns on me v/itk ’1 snch an angry countenance ; tins dutifulI command of yours muft be delayed until■I return from Italy, and then I shall obeyyour command, m paying all dutiful re-spec® and worship to her, according to■what she is. So the Ambafsador stoodbound for him, that he should perform this 'piece ©f worship at his return, according ;to the King’s pleasure.*7* During their stay ia Italy, theychanced to be in a Nobleman’s house wherethey kept but few servants, because of aspirit that did haunt the houfe for the spaceof two hundred years before that time, sothat no servant could work any kind of :labour in or about the houfe for it exceptcooks, for what they vulgarly called aBrownie, did all itself, and would allow nofellow-labourer to work along with it.—.In the morning George got up pretty early ,and called for water to wash himfelf;then directly comes the Brownie, witha bafon of water in the one hand, and aclean cloth in the other, George perceiv.,jng him, by his pale ghostly countenance,not to be an earthly creature, said. Of whaenation art thou f To which it answered,in Gaelic or Erfe. A countryman of yoursSir. The Atnbafsador smiled, and jokedGeorge, tellisg him it was a devil, and howcould it be a countryman of his ? O, say*^eorge I’ll show you the contrary of that, ,the devil dare not stay in our country,«»$George having washed himfelf, it cameagain t<> take away it.« tufrin and water#! ri nen said George, And how long is it sinceyou left your own country? About twohundred and fifty years ago, says it. Then,certainly, says George, thou art a -devil,and not an earthly creature. To whichit answered,I am xvhat I am, and a Christian too.Then, says George.I am ivhat I am to conjure you.George taking a handful of water, andthrowing it upon the old withered face of it,repeating the form of the words of baptism,in Earse, saying, If thou be’st a Christian,thou art old enough now so be baptized —•No sboner had George done this, but it set'off weeping and crying, O ! let never a rogueput truft in his countryman after me.—Now, says George, I told you the devildare not stay in my country, nor yet looka Scotfman in the face in his own. What,says the Italian Lord, do you imagine thatithis is the devil’s own country ?' It appearsijso, says George, for he is the oldest resi-tdenter in it I know ; but my Lord said he,and if it please your grace, I think thei Clergymen are very scant in this country(jwhen you have kept the deivl so long fora Chaplain* The Nobleman, unto this*no an'fw^tr, but exprefsf^ s'^car aorrthe Kiilg and his court in disguise ; and I'ineeting with an old man driving two old 1horses, loaded with coals to sell, George I.makes a bargain with the old man, for the I;-loan of his clothes, his horse, coats, Vhip, |,and every thing, for to complete him as I.a real coal-driver. So, away he goes in I.this drefs, until he came before the King’s 1;Palace, where he began to cry with an |audible voice. Buy coals, buy oaats! better 1.buy than borrow. Now, the King being fi,in company with his young Chaplain, whowas a foundling, so that none knew his |.original, and had been fostered and educated jout of eharity by the King’s father, yet he ||was become as proud as Lucifer, and as jghigh in his own conceit as the King himfelf. IThe King knowing George’s voice, though Jhe was in a coalman’s drefs, defired the 1Chaplain to ask the coalman why he called ||so loud, making such a terrible noise ?— 11The Chaplain opened the window, and witha great air called unto him, You, sir, why 1do you cry so for ? Why, says George,;..!1 cry for people to cofne ami buy my coals, Iand give me money for them ; but what Ido you cry for ? What, sir, says the young II1•j.‘ifPrkft, I cry for you to hold your peace.—Then, says George, come here, then, andcry for me, and go fell my coals, and I willheld my peace. Sell your coals 1 says thePriest; do you know to whom you speak ?Yes, I do, says George, but you do not.What are you ? says the Priest. 1 ama mortal, and so are you, says George,What k y«our father’s name, since you willnot tell your own ? says the Priest. Youmay go and ask my mother, says George,for I was not capable of knowing him whenhe got me. What ! says the Priest, do younot know your own father ? 1 know mymother, and my mother did know my father,says George, and that is sufficient, and per¬haps more than you can say. The Priestthinking he was coming too near him,thought to put him off with a Scripturalquestion by asking him, if he knew whowas Melchizedeck’s father ? Indeed MafterPriest, says George, Melchizedeck’s descentwas not counted, neither is yours ; thenwho can declare your generation? ThePriest, at*this answer, would hand the argu¬ment no longer, but clofed the window ingreat hafte, while the King, and all whoknew the Prieft to be a foundling, were liketo split their sides with laughing, So Georgewent off with his coals, and the Priest becamemore humble than he formerly was, for hethought that every body knew who he was,*when tne coalman knew so well.19. One night an English ’Squire, who'llpretended to be better versed in poetry||lthen George, laid a wager with another Ifgentleman five guineas against one, that.llGeorge could not metre the first words heywould say to him in the morning, whenJnewdy awaked out of sleep. So the Gentle¬man went the night before, and told Georgdiof the w'ager, and warned him to be on hisguard, for in the morning they would cor-'1tainly come, and that right early. At mid¬night and you will, says George, I’ll ordermy servant to let you in- So the English,Squire sat up all night conferring with hisfriends, whether to put a high verse to him,or mean and simple w^rds; thinking thatGeorge wrould be sitting up all night medi¬tating on an answer. So they all agreed,that mean and simple words he would notbe thinking, on, and therefore have no an¬swer provided for such. Then away theycame in. the morning very early, withseveral gentlemen in company, to hearthe diversion. George’s servant openedthe door, according to his master’s orders.The ’Squire entered the room first, andwakened Geoage out of his sleep, then said.J7Rhc up you madman,and put on your chalks,To which George answered,0 thou hast lost thy wod man.For Fm none of those.The English ’Squire confessed he was fairlybear, and would match with him no more.Then, another gentleman would hold fiveguineas, that he would give him a word orine, that he could not metre at the firstanswer, and to answer it directly as soon ashe had done speaking'. But George orderedhim first to table the money, and then toproceed ; which he did in all haste and saidas follows:My belly rumbl'd, and them I farted.George, gripping to the money, answered,A fool and his money is soon parted.Then they all cried out he was fairly beat,land what George had said, was really true.So they never would lay any more waggers>concerning poetry.20 A Bishop sent d letter to George,ao let him know that he was coming tovisit him, and take dinner with him in his»j lodgings, George sent an answer, that hei would wait upon his Lordship on the dayappointed. But well did George know r’it was not for any love he had to him, thsj v was coming to visit him, but *py fairlies; therefore he thought he should givhim, something to talk about, So Georg »sent his servant to a Bookfeller’s shop,buy a dozen of small pamphlets, aboua halfpenny a piece ; such as, A groat’worth of Wit for a penny ; the Hiftsry cthe King and the Cobler ; the Exploits oThomas Hickathrift, and such like piecesAnd taking all-his ©wn books away, hput the pamphlets in their place; whiclhe prenfented to the Bishop, when he askedt'for a sight of his library. What, Sayjfthe Bishop, have you no more books buBthese? No more, says George, but miBible. O, says the Bishop, 1 wonder hovVjyou can either speak plain, or write a perlfeet sentence, when you have no otherbooks than these. O says George, dolyou think that I am a Clergyman, to bor-lrow other men’s Sermons to bcnutffv mworks ? No, no, not I; all that I writtI dite ; I meditate out of my own brain. H!1 his check, concerning borrowing, pulthe Bishop in a cold sweat, yet he con-|cealed his passion.' Then George called!to his servant, if dinner was ready yet pTo which he answerd. Come, master;,!come, the pot. is on the boil! get out tinmeal-pock. Then Geoge went into the!19oom where the servant was, and set theBishop at the out-side of the first, and satiown on. the other himself, while his ser¬vant made a great, bowl full ot milk-brose,ind sat them down between the Bishop andBeorge. Then George desired his Lord-iship to ask a blessing to what they wereco receive. The Bishop not knowing whatne meant by a blessing, it not being usualor the English to do so, asked at Georgewhat it was. Then George took up a greatrams-horn spoon, and put it in the Bishop’snand, saying. There it is, my Lord. What,paid the Bishop, call you that a blessing?We call it a spoon. O my Lord saidGeorge, it is the best blessing, you can ask,if it do not come empty. Well, says therBishop, and how do yon call that scalded'meal. Why, said George, we call it Scotchbrose. O, said the Bishop I cannot eatrany of it. O, said George, the thing welean not eat, we sup ; my Lord ; since you'are in a Scotchman's house, you must par-rthke of a Scotchman’s victuals. Then said>'lhe Bishop, I always thoughtthe Scotch lived•well until now j I would not be a Scotchmancfbr the world. 6, said George, if a Scotch-fman live twenty years, and get but nine-{teen years meat, he’ll not reckon himselfibadly off. What! £*aid the Bishop, notbadly off, and want a year’s victuals ?Upon my word of honour, if I wanted one20clay’s victuals, I’d be sure to die the next.O said George, we drink water when wecannot do better, and that puts us in re¬membrance of wealth, for a dish of con¬tentment is good cheer. Then said theBishop I’ll drink water too, if it be goodfor the memory. Ah, do said George, andyou’l! remember me when you do so.—So, after dinner, the Bishop took his leaveof George, and invited him to come nextday and dine 'tvkh him.—Next day, accord¬ing <»o promise George went to the Bishop’slodging ; but no sooner did the Bishop seeGeorge, than he faluted him with thesewords.Your servant, master wise-man.And yet you have no books\IIoxo can one have Imoxvledge,That no man instructs ?George answered,Your servant master Bishop,Your salutation’s good ;•Your knowledge is in your Library,While others is in their hood.Then, after a sumptuous dinner, the Bishoptook George into his Library, and showedhim a great collection ot Books; whichGeorge praised very much : Among theest, was an old Hebrew Bible, which0( 'George taking up, he asked the Bishop 'what book it was ? The Bishop, lookingat it very earnestly, said he could not tell.Why, said George, do you keep a bookyou don’t know the name of ?c-Jt may bethe Book of Black Art, O no, said theBishop, f don’t think it is that ; but danyou tell me what it is ; Yes, says George,it is the Bible, the best book for a BishopI know, if he had eyes to fee the infide®f it. So the Bifbop defired George toread a piece of it; but when he did theBiiliop could not uuderftand it; thereforehe defired him to explain it; which Georgedid: The paiTage happened to be in Isaiahix. I9 “ Fqr the leaders of this people“ cause them to err ; and they that areled by them, are destroyed, ” To whichGeorge added, This is the blind leadingthe blind. So George taking his leave of theBishop, he parted with him, saying thesewords:Good night, now master Bishop,Of Boohs you have great store sYet cannot read the half of them,Then what use art they for ?21 George being one night in companywish some English Noblemen, in presenceof the King, they began to demonftratewhat a fine country England was, both forH.i5e&utii\il building and fruitful fieldsOne gentleman said, he knew a place in iiwhere if they crept the grass even wit]the ground at night’and laydown a Crowpiece on it, before a hundred witnesse:against to-morrow morning you would nknow where to find it. That may' seevery strange to some, says George, but it ino mystery to me* knowing there would bsome who saw the Crown-piece laid dovvnready enough to come back and take it ubefore to-morrow. But, says George,know a place in the West of Scotland, whereif you’ll tether ahorse at night, against thenext morning you will, not see him. Whata pox will take it him away? says the Noble¬man. Only such people, says George, aswill take away your Crown-piece. O, says'"he Nobleman, f see you know what I mean.But, says George, you talk much of townsyou have in England ; I know three townsin poor Scotland, for properties you havenone such. Pray, says the Nobleman,what are these properties'? Why, saysGeorge, I know one town where there isa hundred bone-bridges in it •, another,where there is fifty draw-bridges $ andanother, where, tho’ a man commit mur¬der, treason, or owes never so much money,if he runs to that town, and gets in belowa stair, no laws nob justice can harm him.,23dJN'obleman offered immedi.’fely to-stakemndred pounds, there was no such towns1 Europe, be fide s in .Scotland. Theyfired Gtorpe but to tell the names oi:>se towns, for they would find him out,Si know whether lie was a liar or not.^—’en George told them t’neir names ; andp men were sent to Scotland to see theme first was Duddingstone, near Edinburghere they came and asked For the bone-dges there. The people shewed themps almost between every door, of the. skullssheep-heads, which they used as stepping-ines. The second was a (little countryr&ge between Stirling and Perth, calledf.chterardoch, wrhere there is .a largeand, which runs through the, middle ofi town ; and almost at every door therei. long stick of wood or stone laid overstrand, whereupon they pals to theirtpwsite neighbours, and when a flood came,y would lift their wooden bridges, ine they would be taken away, and thesey call their drawbridges. The thirdis a village near Cambusbarron, whichy past through from one end to the other,t could not see a stair m it all. So they(urned to England, and told what mannertbone and draw-bridges they saw ; andw there was not a stair in all the villagear Cambsubarron, for a man to get below.h■ wA*24iVGeorge being now advanced to yeaiand finding his natural strength and healdaily decaying, he petitioned King Janlto let him return to Scotland, to visit hfriends, and the land of his natiyity, whithe most willingly granted, not thinking hidesign was; never to return. For Geor£had a great to defire resign his soul anbreath in that place of the world where hreceived them, and that his bones migl ,be laid amongvhis ancestors, which w-icounted a great honour in former ages.-*;So accordingly, George came to the Pari*of Buchanan, in the West of Scotlandwhere he visited all his friends and relation'before his death. During which time th(King sent several mefsages for hfm to returt- with all the hafte he could, but he absolute^refufed, and told him he would never ssc hiifagain ; which grieved the King very much.After this, the King sent him a letter, andthreatened, if he did not appear in London ilthe space of twenty days, he would send hisLion-Herald’s for him—To which Georgesent the following reply, ;;3/y honour’d liege and sovereign Kingt IOf your boasting great I dread nothing; |On your fed and favour FUfairly venture}Or that day Fll be tehee few Kings enter.FINIS.