NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES.THEA SELECTION OF THE MOST INTERESTINGSTORIES, INCIDENTS, AND NARRATIVES,FROM THEOLD AND NEW TESTAMENTGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1851.OF SCOTLANDam iu/,i t,. : i;c i'* /on1'; . - ■ a,c • ks ? k aiKA , Tiiacnc-iti JZIm*bt mos«i.. •mi,An' vn: (/a» oka <uolaasooe iht sio\ assmsi'i'5. SiM- OOtsSiHISTORY OF THE BIBLE,THE CREATION.’■ the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. Ande earth was without form, and void ; and darkness was uponi.e face of the deep; and the Spirit of God moved upon thece of the waters. And God said, Let there be light, and thereas light.THE DIVISION OF THE WATERS.And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of theIaters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And Godlade the firmament, and divided the waters which were underle firmament from the waters which were above the firma-lent; and it was so.THE CREATURES NAMED—MAN AND WOMAN FORMED.And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground,!md breathed into his nostrils the breath of life ; and man be¬came a living soul, And the Lord God planted a garden, and4;there he put the man whom ho had formed. And out of tiground the Lord formed every beast of the field, and evefowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam, to see what 1would call them : and whatsoever Adam called every livitcreature, that was the name thereof. And Adam ganames to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to eve)beast of the field. And the Lord God caused a deep sleepfall upon Adam ; and he took one of bis ribs, and closed up tiflesh instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord God he Itaken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto tlman. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, aiflesh of my flesh ; she shall be called woman, because she ws itaken out of man. And they were both naked, the man athis wife, and were not ashamed.THE SERPENT’S TEMPTATION—FALL OF OUR FIRST PARENT!Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the fielwhich the Lord God had made. And he said unto the womanYea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the gaiden ? And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat •’the fruit of the trees of the garden : but of the fruit of tl Itree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ashall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. AnJ,the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die. An*when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and thriit was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to makone wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat; and gavalso unto her husband with her, and he did eat.ADAM AND EVE DRIVEN OUT OF PARADISE.And the Lord God said unto the woman. What is this thsthou hast done ? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled mt*and I did eat. And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Upothy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days cthy life. Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply th;sorrow and thy conception; and in sorrow thou shalt brin,forth children. To Adam he said, Cursed is the ground fothy sake, in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy lifeSo he drove out the man; and ho placed at the east of thgarden of Eden cherubims, and a flaming sword which turneieveryr way, to keep the way of the tree of life.CAIN AND ABEL.Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of theground. And in process of time it came to pass, that Caiibrought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord5Ynd Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and ofi he fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to.iis offering. But unto Cain and to his offering he had notrespect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.And Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.CAIN’S PUNISHMENT.The Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? Andhe said, I know not: am I my brother’s keeper? And hesaid, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother’s bloodcrieth unto me from the ground. And now' art thou cursedfrom the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thybrother’s blood from thy hand ; when thou tillest the ground,it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength ; a fugitiveand a vagabond shall thou be in the earth. And Cain saidunto the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear.Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of theearth ; and from thy face shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugi¬tive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass,that every one that findeth me shall slay me.THE ARK AND FLOOD.God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth.I And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created.But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And God said,Make thee an ark of gopher-wood.—Of every living thing of allflesh ; two of every sort shall thou bring into the ark, to keepthem alive with thee; they shall be male and female. Thewaters of the flood wore upon the earth; and all flesh died ’that moved upon the earth.THE FLOOD CEASES—NOAH GOES OUT OF THE ARK ANDSACRIFICES ; GOD’S PROMISE TO HIM.The waters returned from off the earth.—And the ark restedupon the mountains of Ararat. And Noah went forth, and hissons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him. Every beastsevery creeping tiling, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepethiupon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark,And Noah builded an altar unto the Lord ; and took of everyclean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt-offerings*on the altar.GOD RENEWS HIS COVENANT WITH NOAH—FORBIDS MURDER.THE RAINBOW.And God blessed Noah and ins sons, and said unto them, Be !fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. And the fearof you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of theearth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that movethupon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your ihand are they delivered. Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by manshall his blood be shed : for in the imago of God made he man.And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I makebetween me and you and every living creature that is with you.for perpetual generations : 1 do set my bow in the cloud, andit shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.v - . —: "-"w-   _J7TOWEB. 01' BABEL CONFUSION OF LANGUAGES.The whole earth was of one language, and of one speech,nd they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whoseIp may reach unto heaven ; and let us make us a name, lest; be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. Ande Lord came down to see the city and the . tower, which theIhildren of men builded. And the Lord said, Go to, let us go(.own and there confound their language, that they may notjinderstand one another’s speech. So the Lord scattered theml broad from thence upon the face of all the earth : and theyleft off to build the city.TUB DESTRUCTION OF SODOM—LOT IS PRESERVED.1 The men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son-in-Baw, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hastn the city, bring them out of this place: for we will destroydas place, because the cry of them is waxen great before theface of the Lord, and the Lord hath sent us to destroy it. AndWhen the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying,Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters, lest thou be con-fumed. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomor-ah brimstone and fire out of heaven. And he overthrew those'.cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities,land that which grew upon the ground. But his wife looked.back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.ABRAHAM COMMANDED TO OFFER ISAAC—AN ANGEL STATS HIS HAND.And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knifei8to slay his son. And the angel of the Lord called unto Abr..ham out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham. And hsaid, here am I. And lie said. Lay not thine hand upon tllad, neither do thou any thing unto him; for now I know th;thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thii!only son, from me.THE FINDING OF MOSES.When his mother could no longer hide him, she took for hWan ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitcland put the child therein; and she laid it in the flags by thlriver’s brink. And his sister stood afar off, to wit what won!be done to him. And the daughter of Pharaoh came down twash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by tbliriver’s side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, sirsent her maid to fetch it. And when she had opened it, sb.saw the child; and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said. This is one of the Hebrew’s children.!THE ISRAELITES PASS THE RED SEA ON DRY GROUND—ARE PUR¬SUED BY THE EGYPTIANS, WHO ARE DROWNED.And the Lord said unto Moses, Speak to the Israelites, thatthey go forward; and lift thou thy rod, and stretch thy hand ;over the red sea, to divide it, and the children of Israel shall goover on dry land. And the Lord made the sea to go back by astrong east wind, and the waters were divided, so that the chil¬dren of Israel went over on dry ground,—the waters being awall to them on the right hand and on the left. And the j1Egyptians pursued them into the midst of the sea. In the imorning-wa.ch, the Lord troubled the host of the Egyptians, s911 took off their chariot-wheels; and they said, Let us fleoffcn the face of Israel, for the Lord fighteth for them. Then)! Lord said to Moses, Stretch now thy hand over the sea, that<N waters may come again; and as the morning appeared,oh sea returned, and covered the chariots and all the host offraoh: there remained not one of them. Thus the Lordd Israel; and they saw the Egyptians dead on the sea-shore ;they feared the Lord and his servant Moses.MOSES SMITETH THE ROCK.(And the Lord said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and:e with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith■u smotest the river, take in thy hand, and go. Behold, Isi stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb; and thou.It smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, thatxi; people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of theers of Israel.MOSES BECEIVETH THE TABLES.And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stoneke unto the first; and I will write upon these tables the wordslat were in the first tables, which thou brakest. And hewed two tables of stone like unto the first: and Moses rose uprly in the morning, and went up into Mount Sinai, as the Lordd commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of;one.THE WALLS OE JERICHO PALL—THE CITY TAKEN.The people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets ;id it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the10trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that t:wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the citievery man straight before him, and they took the city, athey utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man. a.woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with tedge of the sword.samson’s death.And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon whitjjthe house stood, and on which it wras borne up, of the one winhis right hand, and of the other with his left. And Sams*said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed kirns*with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and up*'all the people that were within.DAVID KILLS GOLIATH—THE PHILISTINES KOUTED.David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with ;stone, and smote the'Philistine, and slew him ; but there was n-sword in the hand of David. Therefore David ran, and stooi'upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew' it out of th>sheath thereof, and slew Goliath, and cut off his head therewithAnd when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, the*fled.ABSALOM CAUGHT UP IN THE OAK.And Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under tnrthick branches of a great oak, and his head caught hold of theoak, and ho was taken up between the heaven and the earth;and the mule that was under him went away.ItTHE TEMPLE BUILT.And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth yearter the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt,the fourth year of Solomon’s reign, that he began to builde house of the Lord. And the word of the Lord came tojlomon, saying, Concerning this house which thou art build-g; If thou wilt walk in my statutes, and execute my judg-ents, and keep all my commandments, then will I performle promise made to David thy father—that I will dwell with.ice, and not forsake thee. So Solomon built the house,land finished it according to the plan which God himself hadgiven to David.ELIJAH DIVIDES JOItDAH.And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry, I pray thee, here, forjithe Lord hath sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the Lordliveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And theytwo went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went,i and stood to view afar off1; and they two stood by Jordan. AndElijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote thei waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they' two went over on dry ground.Elijah is carried to heaven in a chariot of fire.And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that,: behold there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, andparted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwindinto heaven.12SATAN AFFLICTS JOB—HIS WIFE REVILES HIM.Satan smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot untohis crown. And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withaland he sat down among the ashes. Then said his wife untohim, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and dieBut he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolisDwomen speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand otGod, and shall we not receive evil ?Belshazzar’s feast.The king and his princes, his wives and his concubines, drankwine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron,]of wood, and of stone. In the same hour came forth fingers of atman’s hand, and wrote over against the candlestick upon the]plaster of the wall of the king’s palace ; and the king saw theipart of the hand that wrote. Then the king’s countenance was«changed, and his thoughts troubled him, and he said, Whoso-1ever shall read this writing, and show mo the interpretation;thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold Iabout his nock, and shall be the third ruler of the kingdom, tThen was Daniel brought in, and said, This is the interpreta- Jtion. God hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it. Thou iart weighed in the balances and art found wanting; thy kingdom ris divided and given to the Medcs and Persians. In that night ]was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.DANIEL CAST INTO THE DEN OF LIONS.Then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live for ever. My [God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions’ mouths, that ithey have not hurt me : forasmuch as before him innocence was ‘found in me ; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt. JThen was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that 1they should take Daniel up out of the den.JONAH COMMANDED TO GO TO NINEVEH—HE FLEES FROM THE :PRESENCE OF THE LORD—IS SWALLOWED BY A WHALE.The word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amittai, |saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry againstit; for their wickedness is come up before me. But Jonah rose fup to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, and went rdown to Joppa; and he found a ship going to Tarshish : so he ipaid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them junto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. Now the Lord .had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah13was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights. Andthe Lord spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah uponthe dry land. And the word of the Lord came unto Jonah thesecond time, saying. Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city,and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. So Jonaharose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of theLord. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days’journey. And Jonah began to enter into the city a day’s jour¬ney, and he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shallbe overthrown. So the people of Nineveh believed God, andproclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest ofthem even to the least of them. And God saw their works,that they turned from their evil way ; and God repented of thoevil that he had said that he would do unto them; and he didit not.THE SALUTATION.And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary ; for thou hastfound favour with God. And, behold, thou shalt conceive inthy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus.He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest;and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his fatherDavid.THE GENEALOGY OP CHRIST FROM ABRAHAM TO JOSEPH.The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David,■; the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begatI Jacob, and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren. And Jacob« begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born JesusSwho is called Christ. So all tho generations from Abrahamto David, are fourteen generations; and from David until thecarrying away into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from| the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen gener-i ations.THE BIRTH OP CHRIST—JOSEPH SATISFIED BY AN ANGEL, WHOINTERPRETS THE NAME OP CHRIST.I Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise; when, ashis mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they cametogether she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. ThenJoseph her husband being a just man, and not willing to makeher a public example, was minded to put her away privily; butwhile he thought on these things, behold the angel of the Lordappeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son ofI David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife; for that14which is conceived in her, is of the Holy Ghost. And she shallbring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS : for heshall save his people from their sins.WISE MEN INQUIRE AFTER CHRIST.Behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem,saying. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? for wo haveseen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. 'Whenthey saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. Andwhen they were come into the house, they saw the youngchild with Mary his mother, and fell down and worshippedhim; and when they had opened their treasures, they presentedunto him gifts; gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And beingwarned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod,they departed into their own country another way. ThenHerod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men,was exceeding wroth; and sent forth, and slew all the children Ithat were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from twoyears old and under, according to the time which he had dili¬gently inquired of the wise men. Then was fulfilled that whichwas spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, In Rama there wasa voice heard, lamentation and weeping, and great mourning ;Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted,because they are not.THE BAPTISM OF JESUS.Now, when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, thatJesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened.And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape, like a doveupon him; and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thouart my beloved Son ; in thee I am well pleased.JESUS TEMPTED BY ME DEVIL.Then was Jesus led up of the spirit, into the wilderness, tobe tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty daysand forty nights, he was afterwards an hungered. And whenthe tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God,command that these stones be made bread. But he answeredand said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread, alone, butby every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.SIMON PETER, ANDREW, JAMES, AND JOHN, CALLED TO BEDISCIPLES.And Jesus walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren;Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net intoSI15the sea: for they were fishers. And he said unto them, Followme, and I will make you fishers of men. And they straight¬way left their nets, and followed him. And going on fromthence he saw other two brethren. And they immediately leftthe ship and their father, and followed him,Christ’s sermon on the moent.Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom ofheaven. Blessed are they that mourn : for they shall be com¬forted. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteous¬ness : for they shall be filled. Blessed arc the merciful: forthey shall obtain mercy. Blessed arc the pure in heart: forthey shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers: for theyshall be called the children of God.BLESSING ON SUCH AS SUFFER IN THE CAUSE OF RELIGION.Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness’ sake:for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye, when menshall revile you, and persecute you; and shall say all manner ofevil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceed¬ing glad : for great is your reward in heaven : for so persecutedthey the prophets which were before you.BROTHERLY LOVE AND FORGIVENESS ENJOINED ANDDIRECTED.If thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberestthat thy brother hath aught against thee ; leave there thy giftbefore the altar, and go thy way; first bo reconciled to thybrother, and then come and offer thy gift.THE STRAIT AND NARROW, WITH THE BROAD AND WIDEWAY.Enter ye in at the strait gate; for wide is the gate, andbroad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many therebe that go in thereat: because strait is the gate, and narrow isthe way, which leadeth unto life; and few there be thatfind it.CHRIST CLEANSETII THE LEPER.There came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, ifthou wilt, thou canst make mo clean. And Jesus put forth hishand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. Andimmediately his leprosy was cleansed. And Jesus saith unto10him, See thou tell no man, but go thy way, show thyself to thepriest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a testimonyunto them.THE CENTURION’S SERVANT HEALED OE THE PALSY.And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there cameunto him a centurion, beseeching him, and saying, Lord, myservant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented.And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. Thocenturion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thoushouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and myservant shall be healed. And Jesus said unto the centurion,Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee.And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.THE widow’s SON RAISED FROM THE DEAD.When he came nigh to the gate of the city of Nain, beholdthere was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother;and she was a widow; and much people of the city were withher. And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her,and said unto her, Weep not. And he came and touched thebier; and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Youngman, I say unto thee, arise. And he that was dead sat up,and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother.JAIRUS'S DAUGHTER RAISED TO LIFE.And there came a certain ruler, and worshipped him, say¬ing, My daughter is even now dead; but come and lay thyhand upon her, and she shall live. And Jesus arose and fol¬lowed him, and so did his disciples. And when Jesus cameinto the ruler’s house, and saw the minstrels and the peoplemaking a noise, he said unto them, Give place; for the maidis not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn.But when'the people were put forth, he went in, and took herby the hand, and the maid arose.THE WOMAN WITH THE ISSUE OF BLOOD HEALED.And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, who hadspent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed ofany, came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment;for, she said within herself, if I may but touch his garment, Ishall be whole. And Jesus turned about, and when he saw her,he said, Daughter, be of good comfort, thy faith hath madethee whole, go in peace. And the woman was made whole from17BIGHT RESTORED TO TWO BLIND MEN.And two blind men followed him crying, Thou Son of David,have mercy on us. And when he was come into the house, theblind men came to him; and Jesus saith unto them, Believeye that I am able to do this ? They said unto him, Yea, Lord.Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faithbe it unto you. And their eyes were opened.FIVE THOUSAND FED.And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying,This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the mul¬titude away, that they may go into the villages and buy them¬selves victuals. But Jesus said unto them, They need notdepart, give ye them to cat. And they said unto him, wehave here but five loaves and two fishes. He said, Bring themhither to me. And he commanded the multitude to sit downon the grass, and took the five loaves and the two fishes, and,looking up to heaven, he blessed and brake, and gave the loavesto the disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. And theydid all eat and were filled, and they took up of the fragmentsthat remained twelve baskets full.FOUR THOUSAND FED.Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and said, I havecompassion on the multitude, because they continue with me nowthree days, and have nothing to eat; and I will not send themaway fasting, lest they faint on the way. And his disciplessay unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in thewilderness, as to fill so great a multitude? And Jesus saithunto them, How many loaves have ye ? And they said, Seven,and a few little fishes. And he commanded the multitude tosit down on the ground, and he took the seven loaves and thefishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his dis¬ciples, and the disciples to the multitude. And they did alleat, and were filled; and they took up of the broken meat thatwas left seven baskets full. And they that did eat were fourthousand men, besides women and children.AN UNCLEAN SPIRIT CAST OUT.And there was in their synagogue a man with an uncleanspirit; and he cried out, saying, Let us alone ; what have weto do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come todestroy us ?. I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out18of him. And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and criedwith a loud voice, he came out of him.A WOMAN or EIGHTEEN TEARS’ INFIRMITY CURED.And, behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infir¬mity eighteen years, and v'as bowed together, and could in nowise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her,to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thineinfirmity. And he laid his hands on her; and immediatelyshe was made straight, and glorified God.TEN LEPERS CLEANSED.And as he entered into a certain village, there met him tenmen that were lepers, who stood afar off. And they lifted uptheir voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. Andwhen he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourselves untothe priests. And it came to pass that as they went, they werecleansed.CHRIST REBUKES THE TEMPEST.And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuchthat the ship was covered with the waves : but he was asleep.And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord,save us : we perish. And he saith unto them, Why are yefearful, O ye of little faith ? Then he arose, and rebuked thowinds and the sea; and there was a great calm.ST. MATTHEW CALLED TO THE APOSTLESHIP.And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, namedMatthew, sitting at the receipt of custom : and he saith untohim, Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.THE MISSION OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES ; TO TEACH AND TODO MIRACLES.These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of theSamaritans enter ye not: but go rather to the lost sheep of thehouse of Israel. And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdomof heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raisethe dead, cast out devils; freely ye have received, freely give.CHRIST, WALKING ON THE SEA, SAVES ST. PErEILAnd when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walkedon tho water, to go to Jesus. But when ho saw the wind19boisterous, lie was afraid : and beginning to sink, he cried, say¬ing, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth hishand, and caught him, and said unto lum, O thou of little faith,wherefore didst thou doubt ?LAZARUS RAISED FROM THE GRAVE XO LIFE.Jesus said unto them. Take away the stone. Then theytook away the stone from the place where the dead was laid.And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank theethat thou hast heard me. And I know that thou hearest mealways : but because of the people who stand by I said it, thatthey may believe that thou hast sent me. And when he hadthus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.And he that was dead came forth.THE TRANSFIGURATION OF OUR SAVIOUR.Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bring-eth them up into an high mountain apart, and was trans¬figured before them : and his face did shine as the sun, and hisraiment was white as the light. And, behold, there appearedunto them Moses and Elias, talking with him.x i i 1)*$THE PASSOVER EATEN, AND THE BETRAYER FORETOLD.'I 'i . ■ •When the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. Andas they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, That ono ofyou shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, andbegan every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I ? Andhe answered and said, Ho that dippeth his hand with me in thedish, the same shall betray me.JUDAS BETRAYS CHRIST TO THE PRIESTS.Judas that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whom¬soever I shall kiss, that same is he : hold him fast. And forth¬with he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissedhim. And Jesus said unto him. Friend, wherefore art thoucome ? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him.And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus, stretched outhis hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the highpriest, and smote off his car.JESUS IS ACCUSED BEFORE PILATE.And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him untoPilate. And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this20fellow pervertiug the nation, and forbidding to give tribute toCaesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King. And Pilateasked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And heanswered him and said, Thou sayest it. Then said Pilate tothe chief priests, and to the people, I find no fault in this man.No, nor yet Herod : for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothingworthy of death is done by him. But they cried, saying,Crucify him, crucify him. And Pilate gave sentence, that itshould be as they required.CHRIST LED AWAY TO EE CRUCIFIED ON MOUNT CALVARY.As they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, aCyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid thecross, that he might bear it after Jesus. And there followedhim a great company of people, and of women, which also be¬wailed and lamented him. But Jesus turning unto them ;said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep foryourselves, and for your children.THE CRUCIFIXION.When they were come to the place, which is called Calvary,there they crucified him, and the malefactors ; one on the righthand, and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, for¬give them, for they know not what they do. And the sun wasdarkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, ho said, Father,into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus,he gave up the ghost.CHRIST TAKEN DOWN FROM THE CROSS AND BURIED.Joseph, a counsellor ; and he was a good man, and a just:(the same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;)he wras of Arimathea, a city of the Jews; who also himselfwaited for the kingdom of God. This man went unto Pilate,and begged the body of Jesus. And he took it down, andwrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewnin stone, wherein never man before was laid.THE RESURRECTION DECLARED TO THE WOMEN.Two men stood by them in shining garments. And as theywere afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they saidunto thorn, Why seek ye the living among the dead? Ho isnot here, but is risen.21JESUS WALKETH AND D1SC0URSETH WITH TWO DISCIPLES.Two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus,which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And theytalked together of all these things which had happened. Andit came to pass, that, while they communed together and rea¬soned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. Buttheir eyes were holden that they should not know him.HE APPEARS AGAIN TO THE ELEVEN, AND CONVINCES THEM.Jesus saith, Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I my¬self : handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones,as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he showedthem his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed notfor joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here anymeat ? And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of anhoneycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them.HE BLESSES HIS DISCIPtES AND ASCENDS INTO HEAVEN.He led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up hishands, and blessed them. And it came to pass, while he blcsssedthem, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem withgreat joy : And were continually in the temple, praising andblessing God.THE FEAST OF PENTECOST AND DESCENT OF THE DOLY GHOST.And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they wereall with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came asound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filledall the house where they were sitting. And there appearedunto them cloven tongues, like as of fire, and it sat upon eachof them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, andbegan to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave themutterance.THE CONVERSION OF SAUL.As he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenlythere shined round about him a light from heaven : and he fellto the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul,why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord?23And the'Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it ishard for theo to kick against the pricks. And he, tremblingand astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do ? Andthe Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shallbe told thee what thou must do.VISION OF, ANANIAS—HE EESTOEES S.VUL TO SIGHT ANDBAFTIZES HIM.And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ana¬nias ; and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And hesaid, Behold, I am here, Lord. And the Lord said unto him,Arise and go into the street which is called Straight, and inquirein the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus; for, be¬hold, ho praycth. And Ananias went his .way, and enteredinto the house; and putting his hands on him, said, BrotherSaul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in theway as thou earnest, hath sent mo, that thou mightest receivethy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. And immediatelythere fell from his eyes as it had been scales; and he receivedsight forthwith, and arose and was baptized.SAUE EEEACHES CHEIST IN THE SYNAGOGUES OF DAMASCUS—HE ESCAPES A PLOT BY BEING LET DOWN OVER THECITY WALL IN A BASKET.And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, thathe is the Son of God. But all that heard him wrere amazed,and said, Is not this he that destroyed them which called onthis name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, thathe might bring them bound unto the chief priests ? But Saulincreased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews whichdwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. Andafter that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel tokill him; but their lying in wait was known of Saul: and theywatched the gates day and night to kill him. Then the dis¬ciples took him by night, and let him down by the wall in abasket.SAUL (ALSO CALLED PAUL,) CUBES A CRIPPLE AT LYSTRA.And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet,being a cripple from his mother’s womb, who never had walked.The same heard Paul speak ; who stedfastly beholding him,and perceiving that he had faith to be healed, said with a loudvoice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.23PAUL AND SILAS SCOURGED AND IMPRISONED—CONVERSIONOP THE JAILER AND HIS HOUSE.And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they castthem into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely: whohaving received such a charge, thrust them into the inner pri¬son, and made their feet fast in the stocks. And at midfijght,Paul and Silas prayed and sung praises unto God; and theprisoners heard them. And suddenly there was a great earth¬quake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, andimmediately all the doors were opened, and every one’s handswere loosed. Then the jailer came trembling, and fell downbefore Paul and Silas, and said, Sirs, what must I do to besaved? And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, andthou shalt be saved, and thy house. And he was baptized, hoand all his straightway, and rejoiced, believing in God with allhis house.EUTYCHUS PALLING DOWN DEAD, IS RAISED TO LIFE.And there sat in a window of the upper chamber where theywere gathered together, a young man named Eutychus, whohad fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, hesank down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft andwas taken up dead. And Paul went down and fell on him, andembracing him, said. Trouble not yourselves; for his life is inhim. And they brought the young man alive, and were not alittle comforted.PAUL BEFORE FELIX.And after certain days, when Felix came with his wifeBrasilia, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard himconcerning the faith in Christ. And as he reasoned of right¬eousness, temperance and judgment to come, Felix trembled,and answered, Go thy way for this time ; when I have a con¬venient season, I will call for thee.Publius’s father and others cured.And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of afever, and of a bloody flux : to whom Paul entered in, andprayed, and laid Sis hands on him, and healed him. So when_this was done, others also, which had diseases in the islandcame, and were healed.Christ’s second coming.For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,24with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God :and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are aliveand remain, shall be caught up together with them in theclouds, to meet the Lord in the air : and so shall we ever bewith the Lord. But the day of the Lord will come as a thiefin the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with agreat noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, theearth also, and the works that are therein, shall be burnt up.GENERAL RESURRECTION AND JUDGMENT.And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God : andthe books were opened; and another book was opened, which isthe book of life ; and the dead were judged out of those thingswhich were written in the books according to their words. Andwhosoever was not found written in the book of life was castinto the lake of fire.A NEW HEAVEN AND A NEW EARTH.And I saw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first hea¬ven and the first earth were passed away, and there was nomore sin. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, comingdown from God out of heaven. And I heard a great voice,saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he willdwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himselfshall be with them, and be their God.THOSE ADMITTED INTO THE CELESTIAL CITY.Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they mayhave right to the tree of life, and may enter in through thegates into the city.AWECL PUNISHMENT OP THOSE WHO ADD TO, OR DIMINISHTHE REVELATION OP GOD.For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of theprophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things,God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in thisbook : and if any man shall take away from the words of thebook of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of thebook of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things whichare written in this book.