THELife and PronlieciesJLOFMr. Alexander FeJen,Late Minifter of fiiae Gofpel,ATNEW GLENLUCE, m GALLOWAY.1 T IP 0 P A R.T S.^5'-)Yo -which it added,lis Remarkable Letter to' the Prifoners in Dun-notaf-Caflle, July i68jStirling, Printed m this Prefent Year.^ ^ <TTHELife and PropheciesO FMr. Alexander Peden,IN T//0 PARTS.PART I.Mii. IY 1 R. Alexander Peden was born in the pariflofSorn, in the (heriffdom of Ayr. After that he palhis courfe at the College, he was employed for fbmetime to be fchool-mafter,prefcenter and fceffion-clerk t<Mr. John Guihrie, miniiter of the gafpel at TarboltonWhen he was about to enter on the miniftry, a younj•woman fell with child, in adultery, to a fervant in th'houfe where he ftayed; when fhe found herfelf to be fofl-.e told the lather thereofj who faid, I’ll run for it, amgo to Ireland, i.'.ther it upon Mr. Peden, he has morto help you to bring it up :he having a fmall heritagethan 1 have. The ftme day that he was to get his licence, ihe came in before the Prefbytery and laid,! hea|you are to licence Mr. Peden to be a minifter ; but do iinot, for I am with child to him. He being without rthe time, was called in by the moderator ; a’id beinqueftioned aboi.t 4ir, he faid I am furprifed, I cannefpealc ; but let none entertain an ill thought of me, fa1 am utterly free of it, and God wijl vindicate me in li:own time ana way. He went home, and walked atwater-iide upwards of 24 hours, and would neither e;nor drink, but faid, 1 have got what I was leekir g, anI will be vindicated, and that poor unhappy lafs will padear for it in her life, and will make a difinal end, an*( )'for tlvis farfcit of grief that (he? hath given rne, therefhail never one of her fex come into my bofom : And,accordingly he never married. There are various re-portM' of t^e way that he was vindicated : home fay, thetime the was in child-birth, Mr. Guthrie charged her toIgive account who was the father of that child, and dii-ijcharged the woman to be helpful to her, until the did it.iSome fay that flie confefled j others, that fhe remainedobftinate. Some of the people, when I made enquiryabout it in that country-fide, affirmed, that after thePreibytery had been at ail pains about it, and could getno fatisfacltion.tltey appointed Mr. Guthrie to give a fullrelation of the whole before the congregation, which,he <iid ; and the fame day thedhther of that child beingorefent, when he heard Mr, Guthrie begin to read, heftood up and delired him to halt, and laid, “ I am thefather ot that child, and I defired her to father it onMr. Pedeh, which has been a great trouble of confcierce:o me ; and I could not get reft till I came home to de-Iplare it ” However it is certain, that after fhe wai•jparried, every thing went crofs to them; and tv- ycent from place to place, and were reduced to greatoverty. At laft fhe cam .*, to that fame fpot-of groundhere he ftayed upwards of 24 hours, and made awayjkrith heyfeif.2. After this he was three years fettled minifter at.'few Glenluce in Galloway, and when he was obliged,uy the violence and tyranny of that time, to leave thatarilh, he lectured upon Adis xx. 17. to tive.end, and!reached upon the 3 tft verfe in the forenoon, “ Fhere-are watch, and remember that far the fpace of threeears, I ceafed not to warn every one, nigh*- and day,nth. tears.” Afferting that he had declared the wh -tieounfel of God, and had kept nothing back ; and pro-jjefied that he was free of the blood of all fouls. And,jp the afternoon, he preached on the 3 2d verfe, “ Andlow, brethren, 1 commend you to God, and to the word; f his grace, which is able to build you up, and 'to gi veA 2j( 4 ^vou an mfreritaace among al] them who are farft!fied.,>\;J h:c h was- s wet ping day in that kirk; the greateft partcould j'Ct contain thtmfei\es : Fe many tunes re<iutftedthem to be iller.t; but they forrowed moll of -11, •*henhe told them that they fliould never lee his face in thatpulpit again.— He continued until night ; and when heclofed the f ulptt doer, he knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Eible, faying three times over, I arreft inmy mailer’s name, that never one enter there, butluch as come in tv the door, as I did. Accordingly,neither curate nor indulged minifter ever entered thatpulpit, until after the revolution, that a Frefpyterianrninilter opened it.1 had the account fror* old perfons in that parifli,who were witnefl'es to it, worthy of all credit.3. After tins he joined with that boneft and zealoushandful in the year 1666, that was broken at Pentland-hills, and came the length of Clyde with them, wherehe had a melancholy view of their end, and parted withthem there. James Cubifcn, of Pahichbeaties, my in¬former, to whom he told this, lie faid to him, “ Sir,you did well tha: pt'Vted with them, feeing you wasperfuaded they woukl fall rn:d flee before the enemy.Glory, Glory to God, that he font me not to hell imme¬diately ! for I fhould'have flayed with them though 1fhould have been cut all in pieces.”4. rJ hat night the Lord’s people fell,and fled beforethe enemy at Pentland hills, he was in a friend’s houfein Carrick, fixty miles from Edinburgh ; his landlordfeeing him aiighty troubled, enquired how it was withhim; he faid, fi To-raorrow I will fpeak with you •,’*and defired fpme candle. That night he went to bed,the next morning calling early to his landlord, faid,“ I Lave fad news to tell you, our friends that weretogether in arms, appearing for Chrifl’s imerefl, arenow broker., killed, taken and fled every man —•He faid, “ Why do you fpeak fo ? There is a great partof cur friends prifoners in Edinburgh.” About forty-< * )eight hours thereafter, they were fully confirmed inthe truth of it.5. After this, in June 1673., ^ias f;1hen by Ma¬jor Cockburn, in the houfe of Hugh Fergulon, ofKrockdow,in Carrick,who conftraintnl him to tarry allnight. Mr. Peden told him, that it would be a dearnight’s quarters to them both. Accordingly they wereboth carried prifoners to Edinburgh. Hugh FergufoaBwas fined in a thoufand merks, for refetting,harbouringand converting with him. The council ordered fiftyy. pounds fterling to be paid to the Major out of the fines,d and ordained h;m to divide twenty-five pounds (ferlingi |a<rong the party that apprehended him. Some timeJ after examination, he was fent prifbner totheBaf,iwhere, and at Edinburgh, he remained until Decem-ilber 1678, that he uasbardfhed6. While prifoner in the Bafs, one Sabbath-morningibeing about the public worfhip of God, a young lafsd about 13 or 14 years of age, came to the chamber-doordmocking with loud laughter”: He laid, ‘f Poor thing,iithou mocks and laughs at the worfhip of God, but ereiflong God fhall wrrite fuch a hidden furpriling judgmentton thee, that fhall fray thy laughing, and thou fhalt notdefcape it.” Very portly after, (he wac walking uponiithe rock, and there came a blah of wind and fweeped‘i,her into the fea, where fhe nerifhed.While prifcnor there,one day walking upon the rock,itjfbme foldier-, paffing by him, one of them faid, “ DevilIntake him He laid, “ Fy, fy, poor man, thou knoweftdnot wliat thou art faying ; but thou wilt repent that.’*ilAt which word the foldier Hood attonifiied, and went:to the guard diftracled, crying aloud for Mr. Peden j.faying, the devil would immediately take him away.«He came to him again, and found him in his right mind,fend r de*-p convidEons of great guilt. The guard aeing<|to change, they delired him to go to his arms ; he re-t'ifuied. and faid,he would lift no arms againft Jefu' Chrift•Ms Ce*aie,and perfecute his people, he had done that tooA q1( 6 >long, 'll!? governor threatened him with death to¬morrow about ten of the clock; he confidently faid threetimes, though he fhould tear all his body in pieces, hefhculd never lift arms that way. About three days after,the governor pm him out of the garrifon, letting himafhore. He having a wife and children, t®ok a houfein Eaft Lothian, where he became a fingular Chriftian.Mr. Peden told thefe aftonifhing paiTages to the fore-faid John Cubifon and others, who informed me. .7. When brought from the B<ds to Edinburgh, andfcntence of banifhment pafTed upon him in Dec. 1678,and fixty more fellow-prifoxiers, for the fame caufe, togo to America, never to be fcen in Scotland again, ij»-der the pain of death ; aft?r this fentence way patt,he feveral times faid, that the {hip was not yet builtthat fhould take him and thefe prifoners to Virginia,cr any other c: the Englifh plantations in America—One James Kay, a foiid and grave Chriftian, being oneof them, who lives in or about the Water of Leith,told me, that Mr. Peden laid to him, 4* James, whenyour wdfe comes in, let me fefe her which he did.a fter feme difeourf., he called for a drink, and whenhe fought a blefftnp, he faid, “ Good Lord, let notJames Kay’s wife mifs her hufband, till thou return himto her in peace and fafety ; which we art fure will beiooner than either he of fhc h looking for.” A cord-tngly, the fame day month that he parted with her atLeith, became home to her at the Water ef Leith.”8 When they were on fhif board at the Water ofLeith, there was a report, that the enemies were 10fi nd down thumbkins to keep them.from rebelling ;at the repoit of this, they were difeouraged : Mr. Pedencame above the deck and aid,’“ Whv are ye difeourag-ed ? V ou need not fear, there will neither thumhkins jnor bootkins come here : lift up your hearts and head,'lor the day of your redemption draweth near ; if wewere once at London, we will be all fet at liberty.’’—And when failing in the \ >j :gc, praying publicly, heJiLlM'LLj1. lUJii IM'.-LM iMiC 7 ).I faid, “ Lord, fuch Is tlie enemies hatred at thee, anditj maiue at us,for thy fake, that they will not let us ftay: i in thy land of Scotland, to ferve thee tl. o* lome of usII have nothing but the canopy of thy heavens above us,.i|i and the earth to tread upon *, but, Lord, we blefs, thyi name, that will cut Ihort our voyage, and fruftratethy' enemies of their wicked defign, that they will not get uswhere they intend •, and fome of us lhall go richer homej than we came from home.” James Pride, who livedI in Fife, an honeft man, being one of them, he faidmany times,he could affert the truth of this,for he camefafely home, and befide other things, he bought twocows, and before that, he never had one. I had thefe; t ounts both from the foreiaid James Kay, and Ro¬bert Punton, a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was alfo under the fame fentence, who lived inthe parifh of Dalmony, near Oueensferry.9. When they arrived at London, the'lkipper who■ received them at Leith, was to carry them no farther;if the (kipper, who was to receive them there, and carryi i them to Virginia, came to fee them, they being repre-•I fented to him as thieves, robbers, and evil doers ; but'i when he found they were all grave Ctiriflian men,:i banilhed for Prefbyterian principles, he laid he would|j| fail the iea with none fuch. In this confuJion, that theone (kipper would not receive them, and the otherwould keep them no longer, being expenjive to main¬tain them, they were all let at liberty. Others reportedthat both (kippers got compliments from friends att London; however, it is certain they were lafely letfree, without any impolltion of bonds or oaths ; andfriends at London, and in their way homewards thi o*England, (hewed much kindnefs unto them.10. That dnraal day, June 22d. 1C79, at Bothwel-l bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, and fled before the3i| enemy, he was forty miles ciiftant, near the border,•1 ‘and kept himfelf retired until the middle of the dav,1$ that Joiue friends laid to him, “ iur, the people areItIf 8 )waiting for fermon.” He faid, Let the people go totheir prayers : for me, I neither can nor will preach anythis daV ; for our friends are fallen an • /led before theenemy at Hamilton ; and they are hanging and haihingthem down, and their blood is running like water.”i r. After this, he was preaching in Galloway : in theforenoon he prayed earneftly for the prifoners takenat and about Bothwel) ; but in the afternoon, when hebegan to pray for them lie halted and (aid, “Our friendsat Edinburgh, the prifoners, have done fomcthing tofave their lives that fhall not do with them, for the iea-biliows ihall be many of their winding-lheets j and thefew of them that efcape, Ihall not he ufeful to God intheir generation " Which was fadly verified the1’-after. That which the greateit part of thefe pri onersdid, was the taking ol that bond, fommonly called theB'oci Bond, after Bothwel, wherein they acknowledgedtheir appearance in arms, for the defence of the go.'peland their oWn lives, to be rebellion; and engagedthemfelves never to make any more oppoiition ; Uponthe doing of which, thele perfidious enemies promiledthem life and liberty This, with the curled and fub-tile arguments and ad'fices of minifters, who went intothe New Yard, where they were pri.foners particu¬larly Mr- Hugh Kenedy, Mr. William Crighton,Mr. Edward Jamiefon, and Mr. George Johnlton ;thefe took their turn in the yard, where the prisonerswere, together with a letter that was lent from thatEraftian meeting of minifters, met at Edinburgh inAuguft 1679, for the acceptance of a third indulgence,with a cautionary bond. Notwithftanding of the ene¬mies’ promife, and the unhappy advice of minilfers notindulged, after they wert? eninared in this foul com¬pliance, they banilhed 255, whereof 205 perilhed inthe Orkney-fea. This foul ftep, as lome of them told,both in their life, and when dying, lay heavy uponthem all their days ; and, that thefe unhappy, argu¬ments and advice* of painifters, prevailed more with( 9 .)ithem than the enemies’ promiie of life and liberty.1 In Aiiguft 1679, fifteen of Bothwel prifonersjindichnents or death. Mr. Edward Jamiefon, a worthyiPrefbyterian miniffer. as Mr. Woodrow calls himwas fent from that Eraftian meeting of minilb:rs, intojthe Tolbooth to theie fifteen, who urged the lawful-Iriefs of taking the bond to lave their lives ; and theirefufal of it would be a refhcti-ni to religion, and the:caule they had appeared for; and a throwing awayiltheir lives, for which their friends would not be able:to vindicate them; He prevailed with thirteen ofthem, which fouKed in thS^ftomachs of fome of thofeithirteen, and lay heavy upon them both in their lifeand death. The priioners taken at and about the time1 of Bothwel, were reckoned about fifteen hundred.I The faithful Mr. John Blackader did write to thefei'lprii'oncrs, diffuading them from that foul compliance ;rand feme worthy perfons of theie prifoners, whom hewrote t6, faid to me with tears, that they flighted his•advice, and fwallowed the unhappy advices of theferminifters who were making psace with the enemies ofi.God, and followed their foul fteps, for which they•would go a mourning to their graves. I heard the fame[•Mr. Blackader preach his laft public fermon, before hisifalling into tiie enemies’ hands, in the night-time inlithe fields, in the parifh of Livingftone, upon the fidehof the Muir, at h^w-houfe, on the 23d of March,( after Bothwel, where he lefhired upon Micah iv fromgthe 9th' verfe, where he alferted, That the nearer theildelivery, our pains and fhoWers would come thickerHand forer upon us ; and that we had been long in thelifields, but ere we were delivered, we would go down>to Babylon. That either Popery would overfpreadIthis land, or be at the breaking in upon us, like an(inundation of water. And preached upon that text,ILei 10 triuti be meve 1 iv-th tutfe rJJl cliors fur ye yaur-f lves know, that \e ace appointed thereunto Wherehe infifled on ilvhat moving and fhaking diipeniatious( !0 )the Lord had exercifed his people with in former agesjefpecially that man of God, that went to Jeroboam atBethel, and delivered his commiffion faithfully, and yet *was turned out of the way by an old lying pjophet ;how moving and humbling the manner of his deathwas to all Ifrael ! And earneftly requefted us to takegood heed to what miniilers we heard, and what advicewe followed. When he prayed, he bleffed the i ordthat he was free of both band and rope ■, and that hewas as clearly willing to hold up the public bleft dand-ard of the gofpel as ever : Ancl^faid, “ The Lord re¬buke, give repentance and ^jrgivenefs to thefc mini-fters that perfuaded thele prifoners to take that, bond.”For their perifbing by fea, was more moving and, ibock-ing to him, than if lome thoulands of them had been,flain in the field. He was thereafter taken, the 6thof April, by Major Johnfton, in Edinburgh, and de¬tained prifoner in the Bafs, where he died, As theintereft of Chrift lay near his heart through, his life,amongft his laft words he faid, “ i he Imrd wifi, defendhis own caul'e.” *12. After the public murdering of thefe two w*:*hywomen-martyrs, Ifabel Alifon and Marion Harvie,in the Grafs-market of Edinburgh, January io8i, hewas in Galloway ; a profeflbr of fome note, who hadmore carnal wit and policy than to fufi'er him, to beboneft and faithful, after reafoninr upon the groundsof their fufferings, affirmed thot tney would never bereckoned among the number of the martyrs- Mr Pedenf^id, after muiing a little, “ Let alone, you will neverbe honored with fueh a death : And for what youhave faid againft thefe two worthy lafles, your deathwill be both hidden and furpriling.” Which wasveay fhortly thereafter; the m..n Banding beforethe fire, fmocking his pipe, dropt down dead, and thatwithout fpeaking more.13. In the month of June 1682, he was in the houfeof James Brown, inJPaddockholm, above Douglas, John] May, K593. He lectured at night upon Amos viii.! and repeated thefe words in the pth veri’e, three times,(And J wi/i rife ugiinj} the houfe of Jerooiatn withthe fword He laid his hand on the faid John, and faid,1 “ Encourage yourfoJf in the Lord, and hold him faft,John, for you will win up yonder ihortly, and get onyour braws.” That night he'went to the fields •, andto morrow* about fix o’clock, John went to feek him,:) and found him coming to tne houfe.. - He faid, “ John,let us go from this houfe, for the devil is about it,and will take his prey with him ” John faid, “ Wewill take breakfalt ere we go, it is a queition whenwe will get the offer again.” He anfwered, u No, no,I will not eat bread in this place, our landlord is anunhappy man, the devil will get him fhortly, for hewill hang himfelf.” Which very fhortly came to pafs :His daughter, Jean Brown, was the firft that got himin her arms, hanging in the ftaole She was reckonedby all, to be a grave Chriftian lafs, but from that dayl never had her heal.h, and died of a decay at laft, after{he had been fome time in prifon for her principles.This paffage the fame John Wihbn reported feveraltimes to many, and fome alitfe can bear witnefs tothe truth of it.14. In the year 1680, after the murdering ofMr. Cameron, and thefe worthies with him at Airdf-mofs, he was near Maehline, in the fhire of Ayr;one Robert Prown, of Crofs-houfe, who lived nearNew-Mills, and one Hugh Pinaneve, factor to the Earlof Lothian, (tabled their horfes in that houle where fcewas, and went to a fair in Macbline ; and, in the after¬noon, when they came to take away their horfes, theygot a drink, and in the time of it, the faid Hugh,a wicked wretch, both in principle and practice, brokeout in a railing againft iufterers, particularly againftMr. Cameron ;.Mr Pedsn being in .mother room over-\v. r9I. f 12 )hearing all, was fo grieved, that he came to the cham¬ber-door, and fnid to the (aid Hugh, “Sir, hold vourpeace, e'er twelve o’clock thou lhalt know what tora man Mr. Cameron was, God fhall punith that blaf-phemous mouth, and curfed tongue of yours, in fucha manner, as {hall be adonidiing to all that fhall fee youand {hall let you up a beacon to all railing Rablhak hs ”Robert Brown knowing Mr Peden, hailed to his horfe,being perluaded that Mr Peden’s words would not fallto the ground, and fearing that fome miithief mightbehd him for being in the faid Hugn’s company, herode hard home. Robert went to bis own houfe, andHugh to the Ea'l’s houfe, and calhng off his boots,he was {truck with luch a fi knefs and pain th ough \his body, with his mouth fo wide, and his tonguehanging fo far out, in a fearful manner, that they lentfor the laid Robert. Being ufed to take blood, he gotfome blood of him, but all in Vain : he died beforftmidnight The faid Robert, an old man, told methis pafi'age when in prifon together.15. In the year 1682, he was in Kvle, and preachedupon that text, ‘Z he flotvin plowed upon m\ ba k%ana drew /eng heir Jurrcius Wheie he faid, “ Wouldye know who firft yoked this plow ? It was curledCain, when he drew his furrows lb long and deep,that he let out the heart-blood of his brother Abel ;and his curfed feed has, and will gang fummer andwintef, froft and frelh weather, till the world s end ;and at the fotfnd oi the lall trumpet, when all are ina flame, their theets will burn, and their Iwingle-treeswill fall to the ground ; the plov. men will lofe theirgripes of the plow, and the gadmen will throw awaytheir gads ; and then, O the yelling and Ihrieking thatwill be among all this curled feed, clapping their hands,and crying to the hills and mountains to cover themfrom the face of the Lamb, and of him that fits uponthe throne, for their hatred of him, and malice at hispeople.". ( x3 . )After fernon, wlierx mar -yhig a pair of folks, wheat1 the man had the woman bv the hand, he faid, “ In-i! deed mm yon have a bonny bride by the hand, I feei a coveteoim devil in her; fhe is botn a thief and a whore,i let he1' go, vcu wiU be aihamed of her ” The man keep-I ing fa t her hand he (aid, 0 You will not take my ad«; vice, but it will tend to thy difgrace.” After marriage1 when praying, he faid, “ Good Lord, many a piow: hat a been yo'ed on the b ck ct the church in Scot andPaga >s yoked their , Anuchrfd tu>ked his, ind Prelacy\ hers, and now the plagued EraSHm indulged, thee have'yoked theirs, and it ill becomes the n ; good Lord cuttheir thee^, that the fvvr g!e trees miy fall to thejg ound ” Eniign John Kira and was witnefs to thisHerman and marriage he .was my dear acquaintance,who told me fevcral dma> o 7 this, and more of that fer-1: mou.6. About the fame time, he was m u/rvino t v i p iit*icf folk , ue 1 lid to the one, “ Stand bv, L wul nor mr-ry you tub day ” fhe bridegroom was an;;ioas to knowJthe reafin, afier e quiriag priviteiy, ae laid, 4‘ Yoii\ will thank me for it ifterwards, and think v jurfe fjweil 4U it of her for ill - is vmii ch id t » another wife’sjhuiband which was in itter of fa£t, as ti ne af.erw irist difeovered.17. Shortly after that fad flreke at Bnthw -I, he;i went to Ireland, but did not ft ay long at that time ; inihis travels through Gaiioway, he came to a^ronfe, a id1 looking in the good man’s face, he laid “ fhfy c dl'you an honeft man, but if you be fo, you look nor i keJit, you will not long keep that*name, but wvd diicoverlyourfelf to be what you are.” And ihortiy after, asnvas maue to flee for th - :p-flealing In th t 'hort ti ne1 he was in Ireland, the Govcrnbr required of all pr iby-uterian min?fttrs that were in Ireland, tbit thev :h »uid’give it under their ha i l, that they na 1 no ice li » i tothe late rebellion- at BoxhwcLoridge, m Scotl ui J. 1 idthat they did not approve of it. which the inoit part-fgjSa/rt( T4 >&»<!, and fcnt Mr Thomas Gowans a ^cotfman, and one.Mr Paion ^rom th. north of Ireland to Dublin, to pre-fent it to the Lord Lieutenant, the which, when Mr.Peden heard, he faid, “ Mr Gowans and his brotherMr. Paton are lent and gone the devil’s errand, butGod will arreft them bv the gate ” Accordingly Mr.Gowans bv the way ^as {truck witli a lore licknefs, andMr Patou fell from his horle, and broke or crulhed hisleg,and both of them were detained beyond '■xpect'tion.I had this account h orn fome worthy Chriftian.- when Iteas in Ireland18. In the year ibSa, he married John Prown inKvle, ai his own houfe in Priefthali, that lingularChriftian, upon Marion Weir; after marriage he faidto the bride, ‘£ Marion, you have got a good man tobe your hulbaud bu- you will not enjoy him long jprize his company, and keep linen by you for his wind¬ing Ihect, for ;ou will need it, when you are not looic-ing for it, and it will be a bloody ode.”This came ladiy to pafs in the Peginning of May,1685, as afterwards fhail appear19. Alter this in tne year i68t he went to Irelandagain, and came to the houfe of William Steel in Glen-Vrharry, in the county ol Antrim, he enquired at Mrs,Steel, if Oh wanted a fervant for thrtfhing victual ?She faid, they did; and enquired wh t his wages werea-day, or a week. He lakl, The common rat< was acommon rule ; townich ftie aflented At night be wasput to the barn to bed with the fervant lad, and thatn-ght he fpent in prayer and groaning, up and dowathe bam. To-morrow he threlhcd vhftual with the lad,anu he next mghr he fpent the fame way ; the fecondcL.v i; the morning, the lad faid to his miftrefs, thisjnar fleeps none, but groans and prays all Right; l getno fleep for him. He tbreflaes verv well, and is not fp tr-sing of himfelf, though I think L has not been meef^ith it; for he can do nothingpot^e botteling and or¬dering of me barn ; and when I put the barn in order,fie goes to fuch a place, and there he prays for the af-ffilch'd church of Scotland, and names fo many p'eopTfe iathe furmce. Ho wrought the fecond diy, and hismiftreis w itched and overheard him praj ing, as the ladhad (aid . at night (he d< tired her hufband to enquire ifhe was a mininer, which he did and defired him to bsfree with him, an ) he ilioul 1 not only be ho emmy tohim, but a friend to dm. Mr Peden faid, he was notzfhamed m his office and gave an account of his circum-ftances : he was no more let to work, nor to lie withthe lad, and he ftaid a confklerable time in that place,and was a helled inftrunvmt in the converlion of fome,and civilizing of others, though that place was notedfv>r a wild, rude people, and the fruit o( his labour ap¬pear-. unto-this day There was a fervantdais in thathoufe, that he could not look upon but with frowns, andiometimes when at family-worihip he faid, pointing toher with a frowning countenance, “ You come from,the barn and from the byre, reeking in your iufts, and"fit* down among us we do not want you nor none bach ”At laft he faid to "William bred and his wife, 41 Putthat unhappy lafs from your houfe.for Ihe will be a ftainto your Lmily , tor Ihe is with chi'd .md will murder it,and will be punifhed for the fame which accordinglycame to pals, and Ihe was burnt at Craig Fergus, whichis jheufual punifhment of murderers of chddren there.1 had this account from John Muirtn ad who ftaid muchin that houfe, and othec Chriffan people when I wasin Ireland.20. On the fecohd of Auguft, 1684, he wa? in sChnlHan Scot; woman's houfe, called Margaret Lum-bti nor •, that day there was an extraordinary Ihower ofbig hail, Inch as he had never feen the like. She faid,yiiat can be the meaning of this 1 xtraordinary hail ? helaid, <• Vv ithin a few years there will be an extraordi¬nary P or in and ihower of judgment poured out uponIre.anti ; but h argaret, you fhall not live to fee it.”At d itcordu gly liae died before that rebellion j aaid thert Ir had a iau accompiifhment at Deny, and the waterof i3c,yu. 0( i6 ^21. On the fecond of February, T685, he in thehoufc of one Mr Vernor, at night he and Job.- Kil¬patrick, Mrs. Vemor’s father, a very old worthy Ghrif-tian, he fa d to him, “ John the wor^d .may weei wantyou and me,” John faid, *• Sir, I have been veiv fruit-lefs and ufelefs all my days, and the world m <y wellwant me, but your death will be a great lofs.” “ WellJohn, faid he, yen and I fhall be both in heaven fhort.Iy*, but though you be much older than I my foul willget the foreftart of yours, for I will be firfl in heaven;but your body will get the advantage of mine, for yewill get reft in vour grave until the refurr<-&ion ; butfor me I muft go to the bloody land ,this was his or¬dinary way effpeaking bloody or finful land, wlien heipake of Scotland] and die there 5 and the enemies outof. their great wickedntfs, will bft nay corpfe intoano-.ther place ; but I am very indifferent, John, for I knowmy body lhail lie among the duft of the martyrs, andthough they ihould take my old bones and make whitt¬les oi them, they vv'll all be gathered' together, in themorning of the refurreftion ; and then, John, you andI, and all that will be found having on Chrift’s right-eoufnefs, will get day-about with them, and give ourhearty alfenc to their eternal fentence of damnation ”The fame night after this difconrfe, while about familyw or Hi ip, ab»nt 10 or ii o'clock, expLiining the portionoffcriptiye he read, lie fuddenly halted and heark neduand laid three times over, what’s this I hear? ana.hearkened again a little, and clapt his hands ami faid,I hear a*dead fliot at the throne of Britain, let himgo yonder, he has been a black fight to thde lands,ei'pecially to poor Scotland : ws are all quit of h in ;there lias been many a wafted prayer wared on him.”.And it was concluded by ail, tbe fains night, that imhappy man .Chatlei If. ciied. I had this account fromJohn Muirhead and others who were prelent, u/d con¬firmed in the truth of it, by fgme worthy Ciiriftianswhen I was in Ireland,( tj y22. Upon the 4th of February idSj.he preached at'i a woodiide near the laid Mr. VConor’s houf ; he read! the whole of thexbx piaim ; after reading, he chargedI his hearers, that none of them open their mouthsto fing,j but thole that cou.d do it knowingly and believing!/ ;| for fome few lines few opened their n.outln •, but asj John A’uirhead and John Wac.del, who were prefent,! /two folid Chriftiasis and great fuiFerer- who lived andi died in the pari'h^s of Catn'Julhethen and Shots.) faid| to me, they and (o tie others, could not contain and for-I bear fmging, but l.n'-ke out with th.irwhole hearts and1 whole ftre t , to th t they were never wltnefs to fuchI loud Img ng, througn the whole pfalm After the fing-i ing, in prefacing, hr cried out, “ Pack and let us go to:| Sjcotiand, let us-dee from one devouring 1 word-and got to another •, th?,poor h.meftlacu in Scotland, arerun-i: ning upon the hi s, am' have little of either meat ori drink but cold and hunger ; and the bloody enemy arej puriliing and murdering them, wherever ikey find them,i t’-u-ir blood is running tike .vater upon ihtffblds andI fields-, rife, go and take part with them, for we fear;| they bar us out of heaven, \>h ! lecure Ireland, a.I dreadtul day i coming upon thee within a few years,!' taat they fhall rile man' miles, and 'hall not fee a reck-i ing houfe n thee Oh ! hunger, Derry, many a palej face lhaii oe in thee ; and fire, fire upon a town, whofei name l have forgot which was all burnt to alhes. J hishad an exaeft accomplilhmert four ye*rs thereafter. And1, for the piofanity of lingiand, the formality andfecurityof Ireland, for the loathing ai d contempt of the gof-pel, covenant breaking and innocent blood fhed inj- Scotland, none of thefe lands fhail elcape, er: all be< done. But no withftanding of all this, I’ll tell vougood news, keep in mind his year, month and day,and remember tnat I told you that the enemies' have gota ifiot beneath their right wing, and they may rile andfiy like a ikot-bird, but ere tnis day feven years, theifvongeft of them all fhall fail.” Then upon the iixtju^ 3,f 18 )he was in that weed all day, and at night he came tothe laid Mr. Vernor’s lioui’e, where leveralot our Scotsiufferers were ; he laid, <£ Why are ye i'o riifcourag^d ?I know ye have got ill newr of the cre.idful murder ofour friends in Scotland ; but I will cell you good news,that unhappy, treacherous, lecherous m#n, who hasBaade the Lord’s people in Scotland tremble thefe yearsbygone, has got hi. laft glut in a lordly dilh from hisbrother, and he is lying with his tongue cold in hismouth.” The news of this came no: to Ireland for24 hours tiler after The for. faid John Muirheau andJohn Waduel, and others of our Scots fufferers, whohad heard hi n preach the Sabbath-day before con-clu ied this was the hot beneath t'heright wing that nsfpoke of. Charles II dying the Friday’s nrght be:ore23. After this he longed to be out of Ireland, whatthrough the fearful appre hen lions of that diirnaldayofrebellion n Ireland that came upon it four years there¬after, arid he might take part with the fufferer? ofSet riant!.'rift came near the cojut one morning ; J f: nJV’iiirhead came to nim lying within a hedge: he ia;J,“ Have ye any news, John f” John faidr “ t here isgreat fear cj the irilh a.iling.” He laid, No no.. John :the time of tneir anting was not yet; bin they wid rileand dreat fu! will it be at iait. lie was long c'eub.cdwaitii g for a bark, not daring to go t public ports, butto fame remote ert ek of the lea.— Alexander Cordon of 1Kinftu n, in Gallowav. ha. agreed with one, but Mr.Peden vouid not lau the fei w th him, having lomeforelight ot what he did profe afterwards. In the be¬ginning of Augv.lt, before jliis Isi..lluir* was relievedat i.nterken patn, going Irom Dumfries to Edinburgh,priforitr, when tbb news of it came to Ireland, ourikovs luffereis their acqucii^ance were glad oi the newselp^cially that Kn ftuir hadeicaped, lie iaul, Vv'hatmean all this Kinltuiring ? Flute is tome of them re¬lieved there, thrt one of them is wprtii many of him ;for all will be aliiamed of him ere ail be done.” Being( Ip )i;i this ftrait, he faid to Robert Wark, an old worthyChridiun, \\ ortlry of credit, “ Robe):, and takefuch a man withyou and the lirft bark ye can rind ccm-pel them, for they will De like the dogs in Egypt, notoone of them will move their tongue againlt you.”Accordingly, Robert and his comrade found it out fo,land brought her to that lecret place w'.ere he was.•‘When Robert and Iris comrade came and told him, heiwas glad, and very kind and free ; but ite teemed un-der a cloud at that time He faid, Lads, iiiave ioftfmy profpeft, wherewith I was * ont to look over tothe bloody land, and tell vou and othci s, what enemies|and friends were doing: • ie devil and I puddles andiriJcs time about upon one another; out it I were up-Ipermoft again, I fhall ride hard, and Ipurgaw well:I have been prayiug fora fwift pall-ge over t- the iin-If ul land, come of us what will. And now AlexanderGordon is away with my prayer-wind ; but it weregood for the remnant in ..cotund, he never law it ; forlas the Lord live , he lhaR wound thatTwterelt ere lie-|go off the ■ age ”| I his ladly came to pafs in his life, and wa- a re-aprccch o it at his death,— A lit; le before they came off,|he baptifed a child to lolm v-laxwell a Glafgow man,who was fled over from the periecution . ia ha difeouriebe ore bsptilm, he burft out into a > atpiure, foretelling|that black day that was to come upon It eland, and laddays to bcotland, and after ail this was iu come goodday .v-rs Mrs. Maxwell or ary fciph.Hglten, the mo¬ther of the child, ye: .live Ljiaigo,v, tyid me this,that ir the time lie was aiierting ;hcle things, Ine wasthinking and wondering what ground of aiiuraricc- hehad for them, he cried aloud, making his han« at her,and ia'd, “ Woman thou art thinking anu won .eringjjwithin thyfelf, whether I be fpeakhig thofe tilings outJjof ihe virions of my own head, or it 1 betaughL by thejppirit of God ; I tell thee woman^ thou fhait live andjifee that 1 am not mifraken.( 2° )She told me, tha1: {he was very lately delivered andout of 1 er great delire ;o have her child baptized be¬fore he came off, that fhe took prevail too loon ; ancbeing weak, nd 1o lurprifed with telling her thethoughts or her heart, that the was in danger of fallingoff the chair - Atthi? excrci'e alto he ‘old them, thathe coul not win uff till he got this done, and this wasail the dunk money he'had left in Ireland, and to thefamily, pointing to the landlord tor all >he kindneishe b ad met with irom them vfter baptitm they gotjbre kfaft ; there was- plenty of b ead upon the tabie,anii teek ng a blening, h* put his hand beneath thebr ad. holding it up with m ' _h atledfion and! tears, (aidj“ i-o d, there is a well-covered tao’t. and pent/c!b’- cad ; but what comes of the poor young kindly honefk1 Rcnw ch, thatfhames us all, in ftayingand hold ngup hi fainting'mother's h’ad when of all th» chikiutiiilie has brought forth, there is none v ill avowedly takeher by the r.and ; and the poor, cold hu’ gry lads nponithe hills r For the ' onour c/ hit e cwn au e, let them)not ftarve ; thou caui’ed a ravenous bird, greedy cjhcili it elr, to feed Elijah; and thou fee tnv p^opieinithe wiiderncis with angeis food, an 1 blefled a fewloavc- ane) imall lithe', arui made them iuflicieui for ma¬ny ; and had experience ci w^ant, wearinets, cold andhunger, and ermn.ics e.aily huntit g tor thy ufe, wliilain the worlo : look, to them and provide for them."W e <■ id gei the black Hone for leaving him and them '*—'1 he waiters being a vertiied of the bark being imthat place, they and o her people came upon them,which obligejd th m that were to come oii, to lecurcthe waiters and people altogether, for far of the gar-rifon of Carrie k ergus apprehending them, being nearto it, which obl’ged them to come oh immediahowever it might oe with them. Alter that hetwenty fix of our Scots lufierers came aboard, he iupon the deck and prayed, there being not thewind, yvhere he made a rdaearial ©f times and places.( 2! )ffhen amd where the Lord had heard and anfweredjherr in the day of tlv-ir dihrefs, and now they w re:Jn a jreaf ftrait. Waving his hand to the weft, fromI'hence he delired the and laid, “ jbord give us'll loof full of wind : Fill the fails, Lord, and give us ajjrefh ga'e, and, let us have a Iwift paflage over to theliloody land, come of us what will ”—John Mnirhead,jisLobert Wark, and other' who were prelent; told n e,hat when he began to pray, the fails were all hang ngittraight down; Bui ere he ended, they were ail like1 :j!own bladders : they put out the waiter- and otherWeople, and got a vpry fwifc and fafe paflage. Theenty-i'.x Sc >ts fufRrers that were with hirii, having•ov:-*d thiaifclves with arms, and being deugned toapt urn to hcotland, there being then fuch a node ofdiing, and indeed the din was no greater than theeed, it bfingthen ia the heat of killing time, in thed ot February, 1685, when at exercits. in the Bark,laid, “ Lord thou knoweft thefe lads are hot i’pirit-> lay an arreft upon them, that they may not appear ^:aeir time is not yet; though Monmouth and Arg) le beming, they wdl work no deliverance.” At that timere was no report oi their coming, for they came not>r ten week-- thereafter. In the morning after theynded, he lectured before they parted, fitting upon a'aelide, where he had fearful threatnings agamlt : cot-nd, laying, the time was coming, that they mightavel many miles in Galloway and Nitoiuale, Vyr, andly del dale, ^nd not fee a reeking houle, nor hear ack crow. And fm tiier laid, tint his ioul tiembled toink, what would become of the indulged, nackfliddenitt u.’fitt oi ministers ot Scotland ; as the Lord lives,m of them (iiall ever oehonoureit to put aright pinthe Lon; s rabejrnaeie nor aliert Cc.rnt's kingiy pre-g- nve, a held and king of is churr^n. louienunereven to D-.forgotten Mr Donaidpole, la u tna h, wihht hours of his m a'tyrdom,. taat he|aeu, laeugix there were nt>c another uiinuiry in ail( 22 )the earth, he would irake no more ufe of them innational reformation; hut »erd ureadful judgments up«then hives, ar-d a long curie upon t;i>eir j oiterty * II\ r Rutherford laid, in his day, t6^6, That fad athe.iv y were t ne j'udgments and indignation rrom t j|J ord, that wras abiding the unfaithful watchmenSect land : meaning the unhappy Rcfolutioners. Wfciended, he prayed earneftly for r:any things ; particlarly, that all the tins they had committed in Irelammight be buried m that place, and might not Ipre;with them through the nful land.24 When the greater part took their farewel •him, he faid to the reft, d o what houfe or place Ih:we go ? Gr.e Hugh Kennedy laid, We will go toftna houfe He laid Hewie, we will not get in our nothere; for the devil and his oadns are there. Ncwithftanding Hugh wnnt, and found the houfe fullthe enemies and that night a-woman in the houfe ma«away with herlelf, Hugh came quicklv hack and tohim. He laid we v ii) go to luch a houfe, I have :errand there. When they went, the good-wife wa dirg, under great d> ubt- and fear ; where he wasbieflrd ir.ftrumeTr of comfort to her ; and laid to HujjHewie, this i; the errand I had here.25. They went ealtward icmewhat contrary to hinclination, they came to the top of an hill, upwardstwo miles diftant Irrm the place they ddigued, he hahed and faid, “ 1 will uotgo one foot further rhn way“ there is undoubtedly das. ger b foie us.’ An herd 1*being there, he ’gave him a groat and tieiirod himgo to that houfe, and fct.h Inn meat and news Whothe lad came to the hinife, the got clwift halted and gtflhim meat to them, lining, “ Lad. run hatd anil itthem tl at the enemi. : aie ip'-tadp and we art lot kinfor them hoe every mi: utc ” As the lad vtas j.ciiifrom the honfe, eighteen of the en-emto it ot wenear, prying Rand cog. The lad ran, and nx ol thpurlued "half a mile7 and fired hard upon in in ; tne »ai .( 23 >iient dofe by his head. All th~t time Mr Peden con-inued in pr-ayer far him atone, and with the reft beinghelve rr. en ; when praying with them, he^fai i, “ LordI tail the poor lad that L gone our errand, feek ngfj-ead to fupport our lives, lole his ? Dire£t the bullets1 v his head, however near, let them rot touch him;ood Lord, fpread the lap ot thy cloak and cover thekror lad.” And in this he was iteard and anfwered,i that there was a dai k cloud of mi l parted him andi ’em.20. About this time there wa an honed: poor wife;Fought him and rh -mfoni, ore -d and milk; when feek-g a bleding h fud, ‘ Now m this blbodv land, th;soor woman has ‘ ndarg r d her life in bringing breadp iupport ours ; we catnoi ay her for it, out L,ord,is for thv lake the fas brought it: tneri i< no needat ihe fhould ne a ioler at t iiy hand, thou givell plentyi bread to many hat are not fo worthy of it ; givingpcs not impovenlh the<-. acd withholding does not[nrich thee . g v.:- this poor Wife twenty honnacks forefe few ” And rbe A f« faid ieveral times after-vrrd‘, (he got many bonnocks ; fo that Ihe was neverlira item-<•. for "read, as before •27 Ai this tame, upon a ^abbath-night he preach-Id in a Ihidd or lhecp~i oufe, in a d dart place ; a manpnding at the door as he came in, be gripped hnn, andlaiu, “ Where are you :J0ing, Sir, go home, you haveeither art nor part with us, there will he a black ac-ount heard of vou erelong-” Accordingly very ihort-y thereafter he vveut tc hu-nburgh, and took the blaciceft. J hat night he Wturex- upon the vit of Amos,‘ And I will let a p u . b-iine m tint midft of my peoplefrael.” He cried oat “ ! how few of the mini¬vers of Scotland will anfwer the the plum-1.ne ? Lord,end us a W eiwood, a Cargill, and a Cameron, miduch as they, and make us eput of the rtU.” And I*. v. ' f*.. -4«■ ; -( 24 )will rife agai^ft fhe ho/7: o- feroboem with the fword’He faid, “ I will t< il you good news, our Lord wiitake a teatlvr oui of A "tic'irift’s wing, which fhil’bring down the Duke o* York, and banifli him out oithele kingdoms, aid will remove the bloody iwordfrom above the heads of his people : And there willnever a uian of the name of '-■tewart fit upon the throneof Britain after the Duke of York, whofe reign is sowfhort, for their lechf-rv, treachery, tyranny, and (bed¬ding the precious blood of the Lorcrs people: But, ohblack, black, black, will the day be rthat will- cornsupon Ireland, that they (hail travail forty miles, ardnot fee a reeking houfe, nor hear a cock crow.’At this be (tarred up to his feet, and clapt his hands,and with a ruviihing voice cried aloud, t{ Glory, glory,to the Lord, that has accepted a bloody lacrihce of afraled teflimony iff Scotland’s hand } we have'a blood 5^c:- u to hold uj», and the lads that got the bullets thro’1their head' the lad: day at Glentrol,tneir blood has madethe claut redder vYhen our Lord looks upon thebiooclyclout, he will keep the fword of his avengitiy juftut in.the i heath for a time, but if Scotland Uhall not confxderthe merciful dav of thDr vifitation, nor his iongfuifer-ing patience, and forbear mce lead them to repentance,as we fear it will not, but harden them in their fin, andthf greater part turn gofpei-proof and judgment proof,ard wax worie and worie, then will-the Lord accom-p ilh all that he l as threatened, weil-dderved, fore-leen and foretold day of vengeance, when be beginshe will alio make an end, efpecially againff the houfeof Lli. for the iniquity which they cannot but k ow ”YVhen ended, he, and thefe that were with him, laydown in the fheep houfe, and got fome fleep : He roleearly, and went up to the burn fide, and ftayed long :when he came uu.o them, he did fing the xxxh I’fahn,f*(■. 2J )■ from the 7th verfe to the end ; when ending, he re-1 pea ted the 7th verfe,ihiwirt tny tiding p!aa ; thou Jhaltfrom tfiub'e h ep me fret:Thou, ’ivi’b fovgs ef del'rver-ince,a'ci* Qj'i'.l ernp ft mg.jiSaying, “ TJie-h ani the following are fweet line?,(which I got at the burn lide this morning ; and we’ll>|gct more to-morrow, and fo we’ll get dail provifion :1 He was never behind with any that put their truft in1 him ; and he will not be in our common, nor none whoJneedily depends on him, and ib we will go on in hisIftrength, mak'ng im ntion of his righteoufnefr, and of. his on’y ” ! he forefaid James Cubifon went ei^ht1 miles with him ; when he took good night, he laid,bir, I think I’ll never fee you again ” Tde faid,(i James, you and T.’will never meet again in time’*fAnd two feveral t’mes he went tolrelmd before, when'[they parted, he told them that ^tey would meet again.!rJhe laid James, John Muirlieard,'an ! others of our^U{ fufFerers, who were prefent, -gave me thefe accounts.28. Shortly after thev landed from Ipjeknd in Gallo-may, the enemy got jiotice, theyijemgthetunearrifons,[(foot and horfe- and it being-killing tint', me alarmcame to them in a-morning, that .foot and horfe v/erc: coming upon them, the forefaid John Muinhead being^flrcck with a violent pain in his forehead, they dartedIttp to run for it: He faul, “ r>tay, ftay, lads! letnus prayfor old John ere we go.’ He ' ood up and fai Lord,wx hear tell, that thy enemies and ours are coming uponus, and thou haft laid thy hand oLaflltcliou 01 tld John •,; have pky upon him, for tbrtrcnfemies wdl have none ;his blood wid runvfhere he lies ! ipare him at this time,we know not if "e be ready to die ” : nd, as John toldime, with tears in his eyes, tne pam in his.head, andthe indifpolition of his body quite left him, andheftartedtup and ran with the reft. The enemies' feeing them,ipyrlyed tlism hard, fometimes the horfe, ana ioajetimfs( 26 )tlie foot being near them ; mofly boggith ground dideaft about the horfe. After they had run tome con-fiderable way, they'got feme little height between theenemy and th« m ; he flood hill and _ aid, “Let us prayhere ; for, if the Lord hear not our prayers, and haveus, we are dead men, and our blood will run like water:Jf we die, let the enemy kill us, let our blood fill uptheir cup, that the day of vergance that is coming onthem may be haffened.” rJ her. he began and faid, “Lord,it is thy enemies’ day, hour and porter ; they may netbe idle, but baft thou no other work for them, but tofend them after us ? Send them after them, to whomthou wilt give brength to flee, for on ftrength is gone;twine them about the hill, Lord, and calf the lap of thycloak over auld Sandy,and their poor tilings,and lave usthis one time, and we will keep it in remembrance, andtell it to the commendation of thy goodnels, pity andcompaflion, what thou didft for us at fuch a timed' Inthe mean time, there was a dark cloud of mift came be-,twixt them After prayer, he ordered two of themto give notice of tie enemy’s motion, and the reft .togo alone, and cry mightily to the Lord for deliverance.In the mean time that they werethus exercifed, therecame pofts to the enemy, for them.to go and puriueafter Pdr Renwick, .and a great company, with him.After the enemies tverr. gbne, he called them together,and laid* “ Let us not forget to return thanks to theLord, for hearing and anfwer:.ng us in the day of ourdiflr fs.” / Andyharged the whole creation to praifethe Lord ; and alfo adjured the clouds to praife him.Then he fat down at the foe of a well, and inquiredif they had any crumbs of bread ? Some of them hadfeme crumbs; and v. hen feeking a bkfling, he faid,<( Lord, theu who bleiTed the few loaves and fifties,andmade them fufticient for many, blefs this water andthefe crumbs t© us ; for we thought we ftiould neverhave needed any more of thefe creature comfortsJi few days alter this, the aforef. id John Muir-Vv ( 27 ): head wfas in a houfe alone, at a diftance from the reft,i and in the morning was a dark mift, and he knew notJ whither to go, or where to-find them ; only he heardihim fpeak of ihe nam° ot a place where he was to bap-(tize 10me children ; he gave a fixpence to a lad to con-j dr ft him to that place, which was fix miles diftant :1 When he came, he was praying. After baptilm, he: came to (ohn, and faid, ‘ Poor ftr lying Iheep, how came| you to ftray froni the reft ? I had a troubled morningfor yen ! 'lo not thus again, otherwife it" will farethe worfe with you ’I 30. About this time, he and John Clark, who ordi*inarily was caded Little Jihriy vrtic in a cave in Gal-iloway, and had wanted meat and drink^long : He Hit:,\(S John, better bethruft through with the Iword, thanipi^ie away with hunger, the eartl> and the futnefs there-'©f, belongs to my Maft-er, and I have a right to as much1 of it as will keep me from fainting pnder his lervice;go to ihch a houfe, and te’l them plainly that I have;wanted meat fo long, and they will willingly give it.”jSaid John, “ Sir, I am not willing to leave you in thisplace yourfelf, for l»me have been frighted by the deviltin this save.” “ No, no, John, faid he, you heed notufear that, I will take my venture cf him for a time.’*: John went, and the people willingly gave him fomenmeat. When he came oack, he faid, u John, it is verynhard living in this world, incarnate devils above theiiearth, and devils beneath the earth ! the devil has beeni here fmee you went away ; I have fent him off in hafte,-I we will be no more troubled with him this night.”31. A little after this he being yet in Galloway*John Muirhead and fome others being with him, Johnfaid to him •‘Whis is a very melancholy, weaiy timej’*it being killing time He replied, There are morei larie weary days tp come, \yuen your pulpits will befull of Prefbyterian minifters, and it will turn that darkupon you, that many fliall not know what to do, wne-ther to hear or forbear ; and they Hull then be reckonedCa.' 2S )happv that wan well through at Pent!and, Pothwel.land Airdmofs, and wan fairly oiF rhe ftage, and go#martyrdom for Chrift : for the mirmters will cut oil!many of the rnoft fenous and zealou • godly at he web’dend; but I will be hid in a grave.” lie/ enquiredwhat would become of the teftimony of the Church oScotland? Thtn he plucked the bonnet oft his headand threw it from him, faying, {< See ye how mv bonnetlies ? The fworn to, and tea led teftim My of the Churchof Scotland will fall from among the hands of all parties;and will lie as dole upon the ground as ye fee my bonnet lie.” How lamentably is thi? accompliihed to thoblervation of all who fee with half an eye !•?a. At this time it was fddom-tnat Mr Peden coulbe prevailed with to preach, frequently anfwerhig an<advifing people to pray meikle, faying, “ Ii was prayiyg-foik that would win through the ftorm : they would getpreaching both meikle and good, but not meikle goodof it until judgments be poured cut, to make che landtlefolate.” And at other times, f We needed not > o lookfoi a great or good day of the gofpel, unfit the fwordlof the Frenches weie amongft us, to make a dreadiulflaughter ; and after that, braw good days.” He andMr. Donald Cargill faw as it had been with one eye,and fyake with one. breath; and, frequently, whenthey pretled him to prerch, he bad the lame expreilionsin ins anlwers33 there were three lads murdered at Wigtown,iana at the fame time he was praying at Cia gmyne,|a olo idywere 'ithe lads of Kirkelty : And tiioie who lived near, knewnot of it, till it wac part. 1 hail tl'.s account frommany miles ifacrrtice putirtant : He cne.up this day at> out. ‘c Here iWigtown ” rheteit wac part. 1 hail tb is account"Wiliam M‘Hougal, at old man in Fcrrytoun, nearWigtown, worthy of credit, vho was prelect.,34. After this, in Auchengrooch-muirs, in Nithfdalf^Captain John Matt hi ion and Others being w*ti him,tltey were alarmed that tne enemies were coming lad!< 29 f 'upon them : They deflgned to put him in tome hole,i ana cover him with heather, he not being able to run,hard, by reaton of his age ; he defired them to forbeara little until he prayed where he faid, “ Lord, we are7 ever needing at th-* hand ; and if we had not thy com-mmd to call on thee in the day of trouble, and thy pro-mife of anl'weringus in the day of our difir ;fs. we wotnot what would become of us : If thou haft any morework for us in the world, allow us the lap of thy cloakthis day again ; And if this be the day of our going offthe ftage, let m: won honeftiyo IF,andcomfortably through,and,pur fouls will ling forth thy praises thro’ eternity,for what thou Juft cone to U' and for us,” When end¬ed, he ran alone a little, and came quickly back, faying,“ Lacs, the bitternefs of this blall is over; we will betoo more troubled with them to day.” Foot anc horfeijcame the length of Andrew Clark’s in Achengrooch,,•where they were covered with a dark mift : When theydaw it, they roared like fleihly devils, and cried out,|‘ here i the confounded mift again ! we cannot getJthefe damned whigs purfued for it.’ I had this ac¬count from die laid Captain John Matthifon.35. About thi time he was in a houfe in the fhirCpf Ayr ( James NTifbet; yet living in the Caftle o! Edin-ipurgh, can bear witnefy, to the truth of this and onelaight he was ftanding before the fire, wnere he uttered.|ome imprecations upon the curfed mteiliyencers, who|jiad told the enemy that he was come out of Ireland.Jwhen James took him to the place where lie was to refttk little, James faid, “ The fervants took notice of yourjanprecations upon the intelligencers ” He faid <c V'g,ikill knoav to morrow, about nine o’clock, whaa groundSI have for it; I wifh thy head may be preferved, for itbill be in danger for me ; I will take my own time, andie gone from this hoofe ” Some time that night, he.font to adefert place,and darned himfelfin a mofs hag.The next morning, James was going at the harrows,nd about eight of the clock there w^s a yoop tgi«J‘‘+ c 3if 30 )iSnCfrues fur rounding the houfe •, when James fiW them,he ran for it, and they purfued him hard, till he wanto a mol's, where they could purfue him no far :her withhorfes : Then they fired upon him. and he having knotsupon his hair, on each fide of his head, one ot. theirbullets took away one of the kn . ts. He ran whereMr. Peden was, who faid, “ Oh! Jamie, Jamie, 1 am glad jyour head is faie, for I knew it would be in danger.” j5Je took his knife and cut away the other knot.„ 36. About this time, he and James Wilfon in Oou- ■glas, a Angularly known man to many, was at Aird"- Kmofs i and being together fome time, without fpeakmg,as Mr. Peden’s ordinary was, when there was anv extra-ordinary thing in his head, they came to Mr. Cameron’s |grave, where he and other eight were buried. After |l;fitting fomc time on the grave, he gave James a clap on Jithe fhoulder with his heavy hand, and faid, “ l am go-ling to tell you a ftrange tale ! ’ James faid, “ 1 am wil-l)ling to bear it ” He laid, ft This is a firange day. both J|!of finning and fuffering ! /as indeed it wa , it being kil- jiir.g ti ne, wherein many fainted; and could not endure: 1the fcorchi’ g heat of the perfecution ! but to fome the 1Lord, in his love gave gourds of ftrength, fuppcrt and Icomfort, that keep d them from fainting:) But, faid he, ttho’ it be a dreadfm day, it will not lal't long; this,per«fccu ion will ftopt within thefc few years, but i will tnot fee it; and ve are a:l longing and praying fur that*dry, bu‘ when it comes, ye wdl not crack : j much of it]as ye trow And ye are a vain man, James, and nianyliotners, with your bit^ of paper and drops of blood !|(-but when that day comes, there wi 1 be a bike of in-iBulged,luke warmirinibersfi omHoHand, England, anc .Irela' .d, together with a bike of them at Im me and lo osyi'ung things that kr vw nothing; and they will all hyvetogether in a General Aflembly; and the red hands wi tblood,-..nc the black hani s of defeibon, will b“ takenthe hanu and the hand given then by our mmrfters; .m cye ■wail not ke.n w.Lo has-been tue perletutoiYCom^hex:• - 3T ^pr fufFcrer j and your bits of p'.per and drops of b*ooA5\TiIl »^ fimt(o the do-' r,and never a wor 1 more of r.iemji; and ye and the-like or ycfu, wiil get their, backfide.” -He gave him another fore clap upon the f boulder, fay nr,(“ Keep mind of this, James Wilton ! for, a the Loydalive , it will furely come to pats ” Janies Wil ’on toldjme this tliortly tnereafter, and repeated it again the ktil(General -Affembly, when he and I, and many o hers,ifaw the accomphlliment-of this, in every particular,,to our grejt grief37 In the beginning of May, 1605, he came to thehoufe of John Brown and Viarion W$\ry whom h** mar -jriol before he went to Ireland, where he flayed allmight ; and in the morning, when he took fare vei, heicame out at the door, laying to himfelf, ■* Poor woman,]a fearful morning !” twice over : “ A dark miftym 'rn-ing.” The next morrdng, between five and ;ix, tne faidJohn Brown, having gore about the wor hij/bf Golini bis family, was goirg witha fpade in uis hand, to make.3 ready fome peat-ground ; the mi ft being very t! k, nep: knew not until cruel and bloody Cla’verhoafe comparedShim with three troops of horle, and brought him to hisho'i e and there examined him ; vdio, hough jit was ain.an of a ftamme ing fpeech, yet ah wered aim diftinift-|lv and lolrdly ; whtch made Claverhouie to afk tnofej) whom he had taken to be hi" guides tin ougli the mviir,| if ever they heard him preach ? They antwered, “ No,*1 no, he was never a preacher.” He laid, “ If he has»1 never preached meikie, lie has prayed in his time.”ft He laid to John, “ Go to your prayers, for you lliall|j immediately die” When he was praying, Claverh">uleU interrupted him three times : One time that he ftoptl| him, ne was pleading that the Lord would fpare a rem-ij nant,and not make a fpil end in the day of his anger ;I Glavei home laid. “ I gave you ti ne to pray, and ye arebegun-to preach ;” He turned about upon his knees,and fail. ‘ Sir, you know neither the nature of prayingRcr preaching, that calls this preaching ft” then conti-(32 ^ ^nued "WitKout confu’xot) ” VHen endri, Claverhoufefaid, Fake good night of your wife rod child -•’ ,fHh wife 'fanjK,ng hy.her child i#iier•;n,arovs. thatfhe had brought fort n to him. aid another chil d of his:fir ft wife’s, he cattle to heigand faid, ,£ Near* vlarion.the day is come that I told you wou d come, when I.fpake firft to you of marrying me.” .-■he faid, “ Indeed,,Tohu, I can w*llirgly part with you.” Then he faid,“ • hat is all I define, I have no more to do hut die.”He killed his wife and h .'rns, and wtilled purchamdand pro dfecl bleffings to he muhioiied u ion them, and |his hi ifi'ig. s. lav;rhonie ordered x fo! hers to fhoot,and tne noif part oft ic bulie s came upon h.s head,which fca tered id brains upon the ground. Claver-houfe faid to ins wife, * What tnmkcfi: thou of hyhulband now. vomart r'’ hhe f: id. “ I taought evermuch of him, a d now as much as ever ” He faid,“ It were juftice to lay tne. beiide him.” She laid,“ If ye were permitted, I doubt not but your cruelcywould go that length But how will ye anfwcr fortnis morning’s work?” He faid, lo man lean be.a dwerable, and for Got, 1 will take him in my ownhand 1” Claverhoufe mounted his h< rfe an ! marched,and lett her with the dead corpfe of her huiband lyingthere. -She let the bairn on tne ground, and gatheredhis brains, ard tied up his head, and ilraighted his body,and covered him wfth her plaid, and fat down and veptover him. It being a very dtfart place, where nevervisual gretv, and far from neighbours, it was lome timebefore any friends came to her : The firft that came,was a very fit hand, thm old Angular woman in theCummerhead, natmd Elizabeth Menzies, three milesdiftant. who had-been tried nth the violent death ofher hulband at Pcntland, afterwards of two worthy fons,Thomas Weir who was killed at Drumclog, a-nd DavidSteel, who was fuddenly fliot afterwards whentaken.The la d Marion Weir,fittingupon her hufband’sgrave,,told me, that before that, fhe could fee no blood but fhewas in danger to faint, and yet flie was helped to bea unfits to all this,wi fcout either fain ting or coiilulion,iexcept W'hen the fhots were let oft, her eye^ dazzled.IH s ccr jfe .vere buried at the end,ot his houie, wlierephe wjs {lain, with this infcriptio i on ins grave ftone*In earth s eo'd be A, the iut'y part here nesiOj one ivho did the earth as dujl difpije !tierey in this place, prom earth hi io:k departure ;Now be has got the gariana of a Irlirtyc.1 This murder was cointnitted between lix and feven inthe morning : vir Peuen was about ten miles diftant,having been in the fields ail n’ght, he came to tne houfeabout eight, anddefired to call in the family, that hemight pray amongft them. When praying, he laid.Lord, when wi t thou avenge Brown's biood ? Oh !let Brown’s blood be precious in thy fight! and haftenlithe day when thou wilt avenge it, with Cameron’s.'Cargil’s, and many other’s of our Martyrs’ names tAv:d oh ! for that day, when the Lord will avenge alltheir blood.” When ended, John Muirhead requiredbvhat he meant by Brown’s blood ? He laid twice over,“ What do I mean ! Claverhoufe has been at the Prel-Ihiil this morning, and nas cruelly murderea John Brown,his cor he is lying at th enu of his home, and hi pooriwtfe fitting weeping by his corp'l-,and not aroul to IpeakComfortably to her. This morning, after the fun riling,K favv a itrange apparition in the firmament, the appear¬ance of a v. ry bright dear ihiningiiar, tan from ueavtnito the earth, and indeed there is a cua. ihn.ing lightalien this day, the greateit C.irktjan that ever i con-iveried wich ”gb After this, two days before Argyle was brokenmo .aken, tie was ir.ar Wigtown in Galloway j a con-fiderabie number ot men were gavLered together in,nr ■ -,Jjo go for hisaliiitance; they preiicu him to piearii,•put he pofitivety refuleu, laying, ho would only prayBvith tiiem y e. here he'continued ioig, ana fpent iomeliart of that time m praying tor Ireland, pleading tnat( 34 )the Lord will fpare a remnant an . not make a fulend in the day of his anger •, an 1 would put it in thhearts of his o wn to flee over to this bloody lanG, v/lierthey v.’ould find fafety for a time. After prayer thgot foire meat, and he gave every one of his old pariflionerr, who were there, a piece out of his own handcalling them his bairns Then he advised all to go ncfurther. 4t Bu*-, laid he, for you that are my bairnsI difeharge you to go your foot-length for before yoi-can travel that length, be will be broke : and thong!it were not foT God will honour neither him nor Mon¬mouth to be inftruments of a good turn to his churchthey have dipt their hands fo far in the perfecution.And that fame day when Arg) le was taken. Mr. Georg-Barclay was preaching, and perfiiad ng men in fhacountry to goto Argyle’s affiiiance : After fermon, h*{aid to Mr. George, “ Now Argyle is in the enemy’;ham., and gone !” though he was many miles diflantI had this account from lome of thefe his bairns, whewere prelent ; and the lafl: from Mr. Barclay’s fell.39. After thi- he was to preach at night at Pengaroch in Garrick; the miflrefs of the houfe was too openminded o a Woman, who went-and told the enemy, antcame back to the houfe, tnat fhe migat not be fulpedledMr.. Peden being in the fields, came in hafie to the doorand calkd the rnifbefi, and laid, *• Ye have played ;bonny fport to yourielf, by Deing fo loofe-torgued ; tluenemy is informed that 1 was to drop a word this nigh-in this houfe. and tlieperfon who has done it. is intfcuhoufe jufl now, and you will recent it ; for to-morros1morning the enemy will be her . Farew'el, I will fla’no longer in this p ace ” fo-morrow-morning botl|foot and boric were about tbe houfe.o I * toe fame vear, withi i the bounds of CarriJohn Clark, in duirhroefe being with him, laid, “ .Sirj."iiat ttiMh ye of th’s preit r.t time ? Is it not a darln. -mcW y day ? And can there be a more difcouraginjtime than c.us lie laid, u Y es John/ tins, is uideei( 35 )i dru'k, difcouriging time ; but there will be a darkerime thlb ibis ; Th '.fe filly, gracelcis, wretched crea-ures the Curates, -hall go down and after them fhalltriie a pjrty called .Jrefbyterians, having no more thani|he name •, and thefc ’.hall as really crucify Chrift, ,as>|ver he was crucified, without the gates of Jerufalem,In Mount Calvary, bodily. T fay they fhad as reallyirucifv Chrift in his caul’e and intereid in Scotland ;hid fhall lay him in his grave, and his friends fhall givedin his winding-fheei. •, and he fhall ly as one buried,■or a contiderable time O then, John, there will belarknefs and oark days, fuch as the poor Church ofScotland never faw the like of them, nor fhall fee, ifjjnee they were over ! Yea, John, they fhall be fo dark,fiat if a poor thing would go between the Eaft fea-bankInd the Weft fea bcokjfeekicg a minill.er,towhoiTi theyi.rould communicate their caffe or red them the mind ofliie Lord, concerning the times, iht^ihhdl not find one.”■John a flat'cl were the teftimony fhouid be then? He an-ilkcred, ‘ Ir the bands of a few, who fhait be defpifedrand undervalued by ail, but ei peciailybythefe miniftersndvo buried Chrift ! IJut afte* that, hefhall get uo onhem •, and, at the crack, of his winding-fheet, as manyif them as are alive, who were at his burial, fhall befiftreted ?nc mad for fi ar, rot kn< wing what to do.hen. John, there fhall be brave days, fuch as thehurch of cotland net :r la’a the like ! But 1 {kali note them, but you may.'’41 In tht fan e year 168^, preaching in the night-roe in a barn at Carrick, upon that text, I’fal. Ixviii. ».nt G. d -njt! f,r.a let hi* t» Jlatuted! Letnm hate him flee, h'fore nm! -i f -he is driven,drive <hou item ! ho nfihing how the enemies andaters of God and go dm fs were tolled and driven asncke or chaff by the wind of Goi/s vengeance, whilen earth , and that >. nu wculd blow tin fh ail tc helli the end : hooping down, theie being chaff' amongis feet he took a handful of it, and laid, “The Duke:V'V. < 36 .of ^ ork, snd row ^ing o Britain, a known enemy oGod and gccdnefs, it was by the vengeance of God thahe ever got that name : but as ye fee me throw avvajthat chaff ib the wind of that vengeance fhall hiow ancdrive him off that throne; and he, nor any of thaname, fhall ever come on it again.’42 About this time, preaching in Carrick, in 'hiparifh of Girva ■, in the day time, in the fields, DavitMal m, then a profeffor, came in hade trampling vpoithe people to be near h:m ; he faid, “ There comes thdevils rattling-bag, we do not want him litre.” Aftethis the faid David became officer in that bounds, air',an informer, running through rattling his bag and furmoning the people to their unhappy courts for theinon conformity, for that, he and his got the name 01th .-.Vtij' ra'tU-h 1 to this day. LSir.ce the Revblutiojhe ccmplained to his minifler, that he and his got thaf-name ; the miniftcr faid, “ v e well deferve it, and hJwas an honed: man that gave it you, you and ycurimud enjoy it, there b no help for it.”43. A iittie before his’death, hewas in * uchipcloicllwhen he-wasbcn, in the ncule of fo^n Richman,thfTlbeing *\vo beds in the room, one for him, and one fclAndrew— , who dwelt inland about the New Milnslwhenimportunate with he Lord to have pity upon the Welof Sco'land and pare a recnn: nt, ar.o not make a fuj'end in the day of his auger : And vrhen he wasoffhjknees,he walked up and down the chamber, crying ou|<*‘Oh ! theMonz'-rs the French Tvlonzies ! See how the!run ! how long will they run ? Lord, cut their hougllr .and flay their rurnn g.” Thus he continued all nighfin e tin.<s cii his kr.ees, and feme times walkingIi> tlu mosring he inquired what he meant by rliVionzies ?^-‘e laid, “ O firs r ye will have a dreadful dsby the Fret th !'• onzies,and a let of wicked nitn in ttie ■lands, who will t; ke part .with them! Tie Weft {Scotland will pay dear ferut! They will run thick d( 37 )t in tnc writer of A.vr and Clyde, than ever the Highland*men did ” I lay in that chamber about Lhree years ago,rjand the find John Richman and his wife told we thatthefe were his words. At other times to' the fame•llpurpofc, laying, “ O ! tl e Monzies, the Monzies willbe through che breadth and length of the South andIWed of Scotland /Oil think l fee them at our fire-iides, flaying man, wife and children Fne remnantwill get a breathing but they will be driven to tinewddernefs again, and their fharpcfl hours will be laft.**! To the fame piwpole fpoke the two folio ving mini-Ijfters, viz. Mr. Thomas Lundis, a jpdly minilder in cheKortn of R itray His lift r, a Lady in that country,who died in the year 168 ], gave the following account:"That the laid Mr. Lundie, ait^r fome ficknels andTeeming recovery again, which comforted them ; oneinterning flaying long"? than ordinary in his chamber,the fsrefaid Lacy knocked at his cnamber-door, on.jjbpr ning it, found him more than ordinary weisrhted ;[She atked hi n the reafon, feeing he was now better t\/Hereupon Imiling, he fii , “ vVithi a T w hourst wilt taken from you ! But a:as ! for the day thatI iee coming up an Scotland fh? Lor ; has letten mel ee the reaches marching with their armies through.ihe breadth and lengih, of the la id, marc /L g to theirtridle reins in the blood o f all ramc..,, a d that for aken burnt and buried covenant ! Bu neither yer >. will live to fee it.” As atfo, one r. D ingias,.godly mintflerin Galloway, a little before his teath,|e tnin‘g a flu nbering in his o d, h;s w.ic and otherri^ rids {landinghyphen he awakened, he farmed morejjhan ordhran y weightec and groaned heavny, fay'ng,oad days (op Scotland !” His wife afktd him, “ vVnatkill be the inftruments ?” He laid ‘ The i "ords uforiign enemies: ih^v will be heavy and iharo, outot tong ; but they wdi not be yet, out 101 o g .o tnem.!ut O the glorious days on the back ©f tnem, to pooyrailed Scotland 1”DX%4r XSffc. r*, JtSLr . , < 3B >T he late tvorthy Mr Richard Cameron, fpake to the{iorf prrpcfe, when nreachirg at the Grafs water ftde,fou'th from Gnimnock, July zoth, oSo, eighteen daybefore his death, viz “ There are three' cr four >‘hjng‘that T have to tell vouthis,day which* mu’ not omitbecaufe I will be but a breakraft feme hour or another,' to the enemy ; and m jr wt ik and rime vib b fi»ithed.|li','rfl:v As for King Charles who is nowr upon t e throne;]after h's death thdre fhall not be a crowned kintr of thJiair e of Stuart in her tl nd Secondly, There fhall robe an old Covenanters head above die ground in xot-lfland that iwore thefe covenants v ith up lifted handstre ye get the reformation fet up. Thirdly, A mariball ride alUmn-er-dsyNjcufney within the (hire of Ayrand fliall not fee a boufe reek, or a coi k crow, ere yfet reformation ; ant#everal other fibres in icotlance as ill. Fcurrhiy, The red that the Lord will makeinftruixents of, fhall be the French and the Frenclicing, together witv a party it this land-joining wit!them : But ye that fraud to the teftimony in that day*>e not cifcoui agei at the tewnefs of your number, wher|Chrift comes t< fet up his work in Scotland, he wilnot want men anew to work for him ; yea. he wilchap upon the greateft man in all Scotland, and he willbe the grtatefi n al gnant in it, and he will lay. Sir, leaio> e th s Babel-building for I have ahothe: piece cc; w ork to put in y ouMiand; and he will gar him worllwhether he "1 or not. 1. may be he will convert thjman, and give nfm his foul for a prey. \nd there arma iy of you tna are my hearers this day, that fhall livto fee thefe things accomplifhed ; \iitl a Ur thefe defolations are over, ye fhail fee the nobleman and genl. tlemen’s houfer- fo ruined ’bat the nettles fhall be groing out of tneir bed chambers, or ye iiie; and their mejmofy and poflerity fhall perifh from the earth.’?^4.b he folk wing are fome notes of sir Ptden's laSern on in the Colom-woodpat the Water of A\ r,a httbefore his death. “ My Mafl^r is the rider, and I■ ' . !r ' *( 39 )tlie horfc. —I never love to ride but when I find tUerput’^I know not w! at I have to do amongft you this nigh>^.I wifh it may be for your good, for it whl be theIt is long iince it wa; our delire to God, to have youI taken off our, hand; and now he is granting us our defire.Thert are four or fi ve things! have to tell youthis-night,1'irft, A bloody (word, a bloodv fword for thee O Scot¬ian!, that mall tear the hearts of many. Secondly, -Many;jmiies fhall you travel, and ihall fee nothing but defola- >tions and niinous waftes m thee, O Scotland. Thirdly*The femleft places in Scotland ihall be as svafte anddefolate s the mountain'. Fourthly, The women withchild fhall be ript up and dallied to pieces. Fiftly,Many a conventicle has God had in thes O Scotland!ibift, ere long, God will have a conventicle that wMSmake Scotland to »remble.—Many a preaching has Godwared upon thee, out ere long God s judgment? fhallijbe as frequent as thefe precious meetings were, wherein-i he fent forth his faithful ier rants, to give faithful wa n-ning of he hazard of thy apoftacy from God, in break¬ing, burning and burying his Covenant; perfecuting^,iflighting and contemning the gofpel; Ihedding the pre¬vious blood of hi-- faints and fervants —God fent fortha Wdwood, a Kid and-a King, a Cameron and a Car-jjgil, and othen to preach to thee ; Lat, ere long, Godidhall preach to thee by fire and abloouy fword l Godjjvml let none of thefe men’s words fall to the ground,pthat he fent forth with a commifiaon to preacIP theffjithings in rus name : He wilt not let one fentence fall topthe ground, but they will have a fad accompiifhuient, toEthe fad experience of many.” In his prayer after ier-jmon, he faid, “ Lord, thou haft been both good and kind:to auid Sandy, through a lang trail of time, and giveni.him many years in thy fervice, which has been but as f©junany months; but now he is tired ofthy world, andhath.;done all the good in it that he will do; let him win away’with the honefty he has, for he will gather no more,^'I( 40 )4 if. 'When the da’ oft .ieath drew near, and rot I|>eir g ab!r to travel be came to his bother’s houfe mthe parlfh qfSorn, « here he was born ; h ? eanfed iga cave, with a laugher bufh covering the mouth of it,near to his b. other's hot fe ; .and the enemies came andfearched the houfe narrowly many tin :s. I t the timethat he was in this cave, he laid to lome friends. 1 hat iGod lhaU.mnke Scotland a defolation. i '[here Ilia 1 be Iaremnant m the Lma,whomGod (IrouH fpire and hide i3 They fhould lie in holes and caves of the e^rth, ani |be fbpplied with meat and drink : and when they comcnout of their holes, they fhall not have freedom to walk,®for humbling on the dead corpfts. 4 A i one out ofna mountain,fliall come down, and God fhall bt avenged*on thegreat ones of the earth,and the inhabitants of thel.land, for their wickedtiefs; and then the church ihou'dicome forthwith a bonnr bairn-times of young one; a';, her,back. He wiihed that the lord’s people might ly hid iin their caves, as if they were rot in the world, for noth- ting would do it, until God appeared with his judments, )and they that wan through the bitter ard fharo, fhottfform, by the fword of the Frenches and a let of tm- 1happy men, taking part with them, then there would j.be a Ipring tide day of tie plenty; purity and power of jthe golpeli giving them that for a hgn. If lae we: e but |once buried, they might oe in doubts ■, but it he wereoftener buried than once, they might be ptrluaded that Iall he had laid would come to pals: Andearnelf'y de fired ithem to ta];e hiscoi pfe out to Airdfmois and bury them |hefideR ichy meaning Mr Cameron that he might get jrell in his grave, for tie had gotten little tlaiough his !life : but he laid he knew they would not do it He toldthem, that bury him where they would, he would belifted again ; but the man that put fiffl his. hand to lifthis corpfe, four things fhould Orfal h’m. 1. HefhoulJg ta great fall from a horfe. 2 He dioold fall in adul¬tery. 3 Inio theft ; and for this he fhould leave theI>r ■ < 4v)’wKich accordingly came to pais. Tkcrevras one Mur¬doch, a mafon to his trade, but then in the military'service, who firft out hands to his corpfe.J A little b-fore hi< death he faid, “Ye ifihall be angry'kh're 1 (hall be buried at lair, but I dil’cnsrge you aiijo lift my corpfe again.” At lalt, one morning early, hetame to the door, and letc his crve ; his brother’s wife;ja;d, Where are you going, the enemy will be here :de faid, 1 know that. Vlas, Sir, faid Hie, what will'become of you ? You muft go back to the cave again,de faid “ i have done with that, for it is difcovered:.3ut iher; is no matter, for w thin for.y eight hours Ilivili be btyondthe reach of all the devil’s temptations,j.nd his inftruments, in hell or on the earth ; and theyhail trouble me no more.” About three hours after heipu-tered the houfe, the enemy came and found him notn the cave: then they fearched the barn narrowly, caft«ring the unthreihen corn ! and fearched the houle, ftab-roingthe beds,but enterednot into the place where he lay.Within forty eight hours he died, January 28, 1686^being pall lixty years j and was buried in the Laird ofliAffleci's Hie. The enemies got notice of his death andiDurial, and lent a troop of dragoons, and lif.ed his cprpfe-ano carried him to Crumncck-gallows foot, and buriedjiiim there after Deing forty days in ‘he graved befideiothers. His friends thereafter laid a grave-ftone abovetinim, with this inlcription :ffTr/ /ks1 Mr ALEXANDER P E D E N,I A faithful Ahn jitr oj the Gfp,l at GLENLUCE^Who dipartta this Lift, ‘Januaty 28, 1(580*And was ratfd, after Six fy' ttks, cut of bis Gravf,And hurud here cut of contemptAfter this, that troop of dragoons came to quarter fa3trhe panih of Camouincthen : Two of them were quar--Iterea in the houle ox Janaes Gray, my acquaintance ^they being frighted m -their fleen, Ifartcd up, and clap¬ped their bancs, frying, Feden, Fecen. TJhele tacoI 4’- > . lloragoorss affirmed, that out of their curiofitr they open |ed his coffin to fee his corpfe, ard yet he had no imeithough he aad been forty days dead.All the foregoing articles I was aflured of, excetthe 4cth. which is laid he fpoke to John Clark iJ\;uubrock, within the bourn s of Carr tk, in the yet1685, and has been pa fling fiom band to hind in \»riI fent a friend twenty nines to him, for the certaint 1of it ; and although he w'as ny old acquaintance, lildelayed to give it. But I am informed, that feme othclfriends enquired at the faid John, who owned that ^oi jjpaflage tvas all one,Fedtn laid tc him.for lubftance, with what iViiTher eare other two pafTages I have often heard, an.doubt nothing of the truth of them, though the titheasd p!acef be net mentioned, viz One day preachingthe field*, n bis prayer he prayed earnef ly tor the pr«fervaticn of the people : and again and again he prayefor that man that was to lofe his life. T^e enemies catrupon them the fame day, and fired upon the peop e anttit'e was none of them either wounded or killed, fin 1one man,'and he was ffiot de;d.— brother time he w;|»preaching, and giving a very large offer of Chrift,the gofpel terms; an old woman biing iittir.g before^hwhe laidhis handsoneach. fide of her heao,and rocked hefrem fide to lice, and laid, ‘ ! hou witch-wife, thewitch-wife, thou witch wife, I offer Chrift to theeQuit the devil's fervice, thou haft a bad mifttr ; tho-wilt never make thy plack a babce ol him : But ft thuwilt break eff and renounce the devil’s fervice, I [ rcjnife (hee, in my Mailer’s name, that he will give the’ falvatton.” After this, there was a dftcernable changn her praflice ; and when Ihe was a dying, H e confei'fed that Ihe was either engaged in the devil’s fervice,was engaging; ar d exprefled her that kfulnefs that ih-fcau the happiBels to he tr Mr. Fedea at that time.( 43 )PART. II.Cent Anit’g ‘Thirty n iu adcitional Pcjf’get.\ i. ? N the year 166 5, when the Lord’s perlecuted and| opprtiredpe.jp!e were gathered togetherfor t^ieir: own defence, who were broken at Pentiand-hib , he,i with Mr. Welch ana the laird of Jhprover, in'the Parilh1 of Bakntrea, where' riding together in the kune par oh,:i and met upon the uray a par' y of the enemy's hone, andi no evitirg of them, the laird fa nted",fearing they woo dij all b: taken Mr Peden J'eeing ihis, iaid, “ Keep upi your courage and -;onfidtnce,ior God hath i'aid an arrelthipon thefe men, that'they ihail not harm us.” When} they met, they were c uiteous, and alked the way :'Mr. Peden aei.t off the ^ay, and the wed the ford oflithe water of Tit. When tie returned, the Laird la d,J “ W lay dtu ) ou go with chena i Yon might have ieiit theTad with th an.” He laid “ No, no , it was more fafea for me; for they might have aikei queftions at tae lad,i and he might have fainted and difeevered us. For my-. ifelf, I knew they would be like the Egyptian dogs, they\ would not move a tongue agamit me ; for my nour off fkuir g int a their hands, and the day of ti ial is not come,ithat is abiding me ” 1 acre is a t old Chri t an gentle-liwomar, yet alive in Edinburgh, a naught-r of the laidl Laird’s, who told me of late, that Ihe had fcveral timeslihe ard her father give an account of this. She alio toldhme.that liner Bothwelm idgehght,ihe heardimn preachijir. the ields. i the forefaid pai ilh; and a woman dttingibetore the tent, looking up to him. he laid, “ ife w havejiyouthecontLenc eto iook np; Look down to hcil, wnere[iyou are going; the devn has a tall; ip of you, and willijr.ot loie it ” that woman lived tmd died ander the'itnniu Jam of a witch, and preiumptions of the lame.| ?. About the year 1670, he was 111 Armagh, in Ir.e-iland, one John Goodale, with his wife, two fenons,1 sealous Chriftians, livio g in Armagh, who had gonedron^,< 44 ) .' ,Bcothnd, ^ho was a wl ecl wrig'it to liis empioyirent^his ze^i v.as iuch againft the* ups'* titicus worih’p, andIfeepirgfc manv holidays,' that when the people^weregoing and coming by hs fnop door, he wrought me fthard ; tor which he was excommunicate : When he toldMr. Pcdt n,he laid, “Tcejoice John,that you are caft outof the d( vil’s count book.” After this, he was preachingprivately in John's hou e; in hi perfav.e he faid, •* Our•Lord has been taking great p ins on rou in Ireland, toget you to learn your leffon per quire ; ar.d tew of youhave bee i brought to fay your aeffon offche book ! tiehas gotten a goocly company iphcotland,that he s> arn-ing to lay their leiTon on't he book , and they are bravfcholars : but, ere long, he will try 1'ome of you with itaifo : lie wi'l fay} Come out, tht'u man in hrma.hj, athou man in Benburb and lay your lelion ft the boot.’The Bilhop o' Armagh whereof the gieat Mr Uihwas formerly Billiop and hrs uadsriing, was io enraged]againft the laid John, that he rode tweury mdes to Dun¬lin, to get an order of caption from the Liyd Lieutenantthere, for opprehcndmgthe faid Joha. and alto GeorgeFieeming in Benbvub, which ne eaiity obtained; andcame quickly back, and wa- in luch in ftc to deliver hisorder, that upon horl’e-back he catted for the chief magi-ihate: When deiivtringhiscominiilion ms horiecatt uphis head, and gave him inch a ftroke mi the breaft tna;he died on the 4th or 5th day merealter. Georg#Ileeming went out of the way, who was lather to tu«late Mrs Pleeming, that Chriftian, motherly womanwho kept a tchcol in the Caple.hill, and died t ere—The atorefaid John was immediately put in nr donHis wife and others friends came to vilit him ; his wiffaid. ‘ How, my near, learn to fay your leflbn oft'thbook,’ He anl .vered, ‘I am much obligeo to you ioryoukmdnels, that minds me of that note.’ the jaylrn , anight,faid, “ John, you are called an noneft manjifyownl prom lie tore-turn to-morrow, I will let you hornt© your bed.” John laid, <l 'ihatl vu^- not do. hh^ 45. )treper 4aiJ. Will you r in for it ?” Ke faid, c< No, no;I h ave done no ill thing that needs make me ei her afraid,r aiL^mf d Well, faid the keeper go ho ne to your bedIjr d 1 will lent a fervant for you the n orrew smermrg.”Vhen he went homej it was his ordinary in his tamdy-iforfhip, to fing theie lines in he icpta iJfalm,fo-u b. it days end his wum! Htt charge another tsk , &c.Vhen ended, lit laid to hi; wife- “ I never found fiich1 gale upon miy fpirit at in the finging of theie lines.”he laid it w-'s fo with hi r alio “ Well laid he, let us. ommit our caie and caufe to the 1 ord, and wait ondm; ai d we fliall know the mcauingof this afi.erwards;i'hc unhappy man fell i nn edfately id, and laid, that.! this miichief had come upon him, for what he had.lone agai ift John Good ale; and ca-ifed write,and iign-j a difcharge, and fent it the faid Joan that he might:ot be troubled for the expence he had been at in theicting of that caption He died uncer great horror ofonftience. Notwiihftanding he was detained threeisars prifoner, working at hi? employment in the i'ol-noth, in the day-time, and went home to his bed atlight. rJ he Hid John and his wife returned to Scot-nd, and died lince the Revolution His wife, whenhing at Leith, gave this relation.13. ^hen Mr, Pedtn was prifoner in Edinburgh,ukr fenttnee of bahifhment, James Mdiir, merchantKirkcaldy, was under the lame lenience ; and his■t*e came to vilit him : Mr. Peden laid to her, ‘‘ ItI no wonder you be troubled with your hulband’s go-g to the plantations ; Out if any of us go there at iiisriit, the Lord never ipake by me ”14 In their voyagi to Lot don, they had the ooppr-aiiity to command the fhip, ant make their efcape, butbu d not advei.ti re upuii n, without hi ac vice. Heci, “ Let alene, ior the Lord v ill let us all at liber-,dm a way more for his own glory and our fafety.”\y About this liuie, in their voyafct, on the baobath.-( ^ )the priforterr preiT'd him to-prsach, the wind blow;rpvery hard : in thit fermon he. aid, Up /our hear slads, and ne not c.i{coui'ag<d, tor this nun t)iotiNlr> hhad g^t a prize, w hen lie ^ot the gift of us from thwicked, bioody council; • t, in a tew days, he lhalla.- g'ad }o be emit f us, as ever he wa: to get us ”A little time ago, I had a icroll of many accom tabout Mr Peden, from an ok Chriftian EngliHi gentleman, who was much an hi company and gave me mannoes of his fermons- aid^lTerts the truth of many thinI have hid about him. that he was witnefs to, and foirother perfons of great mtegrity. lie a (lured me, thonly inftrume’Bt the Lor i raifei up for the reliefMr Peden, and thele lix prifoners with him, was mI.ord Shaftelbury, wno was always friendly to Prefby:terians : He went to Charles II. and, upon his kneesbegged the releafe of thefs prisoners, but could noprevail Then he went to the mailer of the ftiip, an*told him, that if he did net fet thefe prisoners at libertyhe fhouid never fail in Erglifb feas. At length he camdown 'O Gravefend, and let them at liberty. Af tr thathe Scots and EnglHh lliewed more than ordinary k;rdnefs to them; which fhouid be kept m remembrancwHvhankfgiving to the Lord for favouring our outcaft!6. Aha r'-hey'werf let at liberty, he ftayed at Londorand through England, until June 1676 Upon the 2tiof June, he was come to the Souih of Scoilatid, fyemSaturoay, the d$v before the Imrd’s people fell and fie’before the enemy at Bothwel bridge; in his e;trciff’ra family, he cried-out, “ I will tell you, firs, our delverance wall never come by the fword. Many thoughwhen the bilhms were firft fet u^, that they wornhot continue feven years ; but I was never of tinmind : i: is now near three fevers, but they wul nclee the fourth feven, but 1 fe ir they will com; nearit.” "Which f dlyxafne to pars.7. He went that night to the fields, and came inSabbatrwmorning, about the iumrifing, weeping ar( 47 ) .wringing his hands : "ne John Sifnpfcn, a godly man,bnquired what the matter was that made him weep ;:He laid, •< I have been wreftling all night whh God,for our friends th t are in the Weft, but cannot prevail ”I gave an account in the former paiTages, about the mid¬dle of that dav, many people were waitinsyfor fermon;|Vht n fome told him, he laid, “ Let the people go toheir prayers, for 1 can preach none; our friends are allled arid fallen before the enemv, and :hey are flagging-md hsfhing them down, ard their blood f running likevater. ’ A= h ghr ht was called to flipper, having taft-pd nothing that d?y^ feverai frien> s being prefenr - Infeek'mg a bleffing, he broke out in a r pturr of weepingjin-J lamentations for that fa ’ ftroke upon the b dies ofi I he Lord's people; but much mor' for the dJad ftrokedae greateft part had got upon their fpiritSj, 'hat fe ^ «->f. he minilti i s and profelibrs of Scotland ftiould ever re-r rover ; which fadly held fue, . si for nerly mend one!n the lerapes of writings of .hat blaft of aft with r-;ing wind, tiealfo inftfted in pran er for the t. pun Jed,I who were wallowing to d--ath in their blood ; and fori.he many prisoners :■ When ended, he went oT, mdlitll others, without tailing of their fupper, thaugh itewas upon the "ahle t»this ’une be was forty or fifty’miles diftant from Bothwel fridgeI 8 Abou'- this ti ne He was preaching in the '>outh,pn that text, t&ut th y rt ■ i g uv^d f.r th; ijjj.ci rtri Jofiph He had many edifying remarks upon the[foregoing verfos, efpecially upon the firlf iin •, H'o ii tothd .r* ej n Zi . He infilled upon the truemature of grieving ; and lamented that there whs folittle grieving for rhe prelent great afflictions of thetJhurch of 'cotlanl One woman ftanthng amongft thebeople pointing to her. faid, '• >ome of you will grieveItnd greet more for the d- owning of a bit of a calf or ttlrkban eves ye did fer all the tyranny and def-fflions ofScotland/1 That woman had h calf drowned a few daysicfore for which (he made gre t none She challengedais landlady for telling the minifter that Ihe grat for the*( 4$ )calf: She replied, T could not tell him that 'whichknmv no', and as Httle did he. At the fame time, he fafo lie of :he people turning weary : fie faid, “ arentaking notice-, fome of you are thinking upon one thin,and fome upon another.” f he Lady Hundelfo i fitticnear him- out knew her not, he turning to h r, and fail“ \ndyeare thinking on greeting Jcck at the fre-fideThis was a ton of her’s, called John, that {he had levery weak of a decay at the fire fide upon a couch, hittold feveral afterwards, that the very time there wasdrow of anxietv overwhelmed her a1*nit. himy Tn the year i68x he went to Ireland: Peter Air-who lived in the parilhoFGal^ouh, who was taken witme, and imtirifoied together, rold me, that he fodowehim fome good piece of the way to detain him, un-he got his child baptifed : - eiaid, “I rel'olve to corback Ihoitlv, and.! hope he Lord will prefeichild.” Which accordingly ne did : And aher baptinhe faid to Peter “ Iftheman of the pariflh- IMr JanjtVeitch. one of the adhialh indulged; had baptifed youchild, you would have got vour horned beads kepand now you wifi lofe them ’ Which came to pafs ia h w days after. rhe enemy ca ne and took away hc ttle everv hoof but he fl d. with his horfes.io. In the tame year 68^, he manied Jo n K’rkl mand l.metLindfay^othmy very d^-ar acquaintances, wh rtod me. That when they were ftandii.g brfore him. hfighed deeply, ami faid, “ Firft one hufijand killed amthen another, and muft have a third ! if it muft be iclet her fay "s ' - i/i of « uord.” Which dicome to pafs : Her . ufb nd, f’homas Weir, in Cumberhead wa? dtadly wounded at Drumclog, oy Clavcihoufe, the firft day of June, 679. being 4 Sabbatanc died the 5:11 day: And Eniign John Kirk w:kdled in Flanders. Kerfland, Fullerton and he were abur-ed in one grave: And fince, William Spence, Lai%e in 'oulter, who alfi was my intimate acq-iamtanarnea her. They are both in their graves.-< 49 > T11. In the year 1684, he was in Ireland, in the homeiof John Slowan, in the parifhof Conert, in the county!of Antrim; about ten o’dock at night, fitting at the fire-fide, difcourfing with fome people, ftarte.i to his feet,and laid, ‘ Flee, auld Sandie, and hide, yo.urfelf, forColonel is coming to this houfe to apprehend you *and 1 acvife you all to do the like, for they will be herewithin an hour.” Which came to pafs And when theyhad made a very narrow fearch within and wichout thehoufe, and went round the thorn-bulh under which h«was lying praying, they went olF without their prey.He came in and laid, “ And has this gentleman ,de-jfigning him by his name) given poor Sandie a id theirDoor things fuch a fright ? For this night’s work, God[hall give him fuch a blow within a few days, that allthe phyficians on earth fhall not be able to cure it.”—Which came to pafs ; for he died in great milery, ver¬min flowing from all the parts of his body, with fuch aaoifome flink, that few could enter the room,12. About the fame time, he was in the fame parifkmd county : One Mr. David Cunningham, miniftefi here, in the meeting-houfe, on a Sabbath day, brokeout in very great reflettions on Mr. Peden, and thefitpthat heard him; cne Mr. Vcrnor, one of Mr. Cun-1 lingham’s elders, was very much offended* at the fam©dc told Mr. Peden on Monday what Mr. Cunninghamkiad faid; Mr. Peden walking in his garden, took a turnt-bout, and came back and charged him to go and tell[Mr. Cunningham from him, that oefore Sarurday’snightthe fhouid beas freeofa meeeting-houicas he was; whichipame to pafs: And he was charged that fame week, notto enter his meeting houle, under the pain of death.This account, one John M'George, in the parifh of Orrin Galloway, gives who was there prefent.13. About the fame time, he was in the houfe of thecoreiaid John Slowan, who was a great friend to outjicsts fuffe; ers, who fled the re from the perfeewtiofl( 50 )#3 I have heard John Muirht.ad and others give ac¬count : Uh Ton, John Slowanj gave me this and leveralother diftinft accounts. The forelaid Wr Cunninghamcarried over many of the reviews of the hiftory of theIndulgence, to fpread in Ii eland, in defence of the in¬dulgence here: When Mr. Peden heard of them, hPaid to fome friends, “ Be not difcouraged, for thefehocks will do no hurt in this country ; for I faw thelike of them fpilt this night.” And fo ii came to'pafs, for the mcftof them was returned to Scotland.14. He was preaching one Sabba'.h-night in the faidJohn Slowan’s houie, a great number both within and•without hearing him; where he infilled cm the greatjieed and ufefulnefs of feek’Pg and get fpiritual richeshe brought in an example, that if any man was going toBelfaft or Bellifnony, he would be looking his pocketsfor what he had to bear his cha rges : One mab Band'Ing without, faid quietly, •* Jmrd help me, for 1 havenothing to bear mined’ Mr. Peden laid immediately,pointing to the door, “ Poor man, do not fear, for Ihave it out of heaven, as with an audible voice, thycharges fhall be borne, and that in a remarkable man¬ner.” That man has been mercifully and remarkablyiiippbrted ever fince, and that in the way of his duty.15 In the fame place, in a Sabbath morning’s farm ly-Worfhip, he fang the cxkh Plalm, verfe 1 ith. He faid,Sirs, I charge you to ling th s Pfalm in faith ; for wewi’l have a room tbrohe belyve : lome ofte hath givenhim a deadly blow, tho’poor Monmouth hath no handin it. A fowler when he {hoots a bird, it may rife andflee, but not far, for there is fome ot the fhot in it.”Within ten days after, the news of Charles id’s deathwas confirmed.16. About the fakl time, he faid to James Slowan,” We muft go to another hon»e this night, for I am mif-taken if there be not a very narrow iearch made thiswight.” They went to William Craig and Jameswent with them to the houie, and returned to his own:bed- When lie awaked^ the houfe was full of peopleconftable* and others, m iking (earch for prifoners, whobroke prifon and fled, but found none.17 Mrs. Maxwel, or Mary Elphinflon, Yet alive,whom l mentioned in the former pailages, whofe heart’sthoughts Mr. Peden told, when her child was baptized,that ctiild is now a married woman, and has children ofher own, whom I fpoke with about three months ago.She came far /from Kilmarnock to public occafions,about df y miles diidance. Mrs Maxwel told me fince,'vhen lift in Glafgow, that when the told ir.e that, fh«forget to tell me alfo, that when the child was in herlather's arms, Mr Peden faid, “ Pnat child’s comingiere at thi* time, is a teftimonv againft the unfaithful-aefs of the miniders of Ireland Ireland thinks thatCarolina in America will be a refuge for them ; but, asfhe Lord lives, it fhall fife no (belter to them. And thefe>f them, ddlgning to go there at this time, many ofdiem lhall lofeth dr lives, and the reft ofthem (hall comeaorne in great dittrels ” \nd, at that time, there werewo Ihips fettir g out from Ireland to Carolina j one ofhem was caft away, near Carolina, and (even fcore ofrteople in her; the one half of them was loft, Mr. Jamesfrown, one of the miniders of Glafgow, (luce thedevolution, wis one of the feventy who were preferved*it he other (hip was driven back to Ireland, fhjftteredlin’d difabled, and tiie people greatly diftrdied.I iC One time travelling himlelf aloue in Ireland, thelight came on,and a dark mift, which obliged him to gomto a houfe oelonging to a Quaker: Mr. Peden laid,I I muft beg the favour of the nof of your houfe'all(jight ” Che Quaker faid, “ Phou art a ftranger, thourt very welcome, and (halt be kindly entertained ; bptiicannO. wait upon hee,for I .mi going to the meeting.”clr. Peaen laid, ‘f I will go along with you.” theit tiker laid, “ Thou may, if t uou pieafe , out toou muttbt irouhle us” Hi laid, “ I will be civil. ’ vViien|liey cam a to the meeting, as their ordinary is, tney.laSE a.• ;; ( 5^ ) .or feme litre filcrt, krrt with their fzees to tie wal:w id others overed. There being a void in ’he loft above them, there came down the appearance of a ravenendfat upononeman’s head, who fturtedupimmediatel/'and fpoke with fuch vehmence, that the froth flew fro rhis mouth : It went fo a fecond, and he cid tne lameand to a third, who did as the former two vlr Pedetfitting near to his landlord, laid. “ Do you no fee thatYou will not deny it afterwards.’ When they difmitTedgoing home Mr. Peden fatd to his landlord, “ I alwaythought there was devilry amongyou,but never ihougthat he did appear vilibly among you, tillnow that Ihavfeen it. O ! for the Lord’s lake quit this way, an.flee to the Lord Jelus,' in whom there is redemptionthrough his blood, even the forgivenels of all your iniequities,” JPhe poor man fell a weeping, and laid,perceive that G< d hath fent yo"?f to my houfe, and pmit in your heart to go along with me, and permitte*the devil to appear vilioly among us this night; 1 nevefaw ihe like oefore. Let me have the help of youprayers., for I refolve, thro’ the Lord’s grace, to foliothis wray no longer.” After this he became a lingulaChriftian ; and, when he \va‘ dying, blefled the Lonti at in mercy lent the man of God to his houfe.19. rl here is an old Chrifuan woman HvTg at th“Water of Leith, that*in the b. ginning of i6?<5 we;to Ire 8IU', to the forefaid parith of Corelt ,be ng hiwith child, to an aunt’s houie, wno lived there; Shortliafter, Ihe was lafety delivered, and Mr. Peden baptize:her child. After fhe was recovered, fht went oa a Sat|bath morning tottu ton laid John Slowan’s he ule fwhe:Mr. Pccenwas opching fermon: being fnow, Ihe a;others lat down in ihe kitchen, a. the fire-fit e; thMr' Peden came and calk J for water to wafh his h,.su..When he law them, he laid, “ Lor wnat do you coinhere, without yt had beer, advertifed ? For 1 have ncthing prepared for ; ou.” iht y laid, O t>ir, you mujbu^ lend us away empty, foi yve are in a starving cenu.11ion.,, He !aid, •* I cannot promife you ; but if I c»n;et any thing, ye flia 1 not want it.” A little while■hereafter, he called, and laid, “ Let not thefe people-wav, tor I will come to thi n Lortly,” Which he v-id,md preached upon that text, T*■ & da\ bring fir fp‘nt%h* V ainrc in-n it tn<rr\ all *ight. Where he hr^.e•lut in ftrange raptures,expre.ffing his fear' of the Lo i’sleparture from theh lands. He faid, ‘c England foruperJtiuou and profanity, Ireland for fecuritv and for*nality, great fhall thy broke be ! For m a few years,e may travel forty miles in Ireland, and not get a lighto your pipe 1” Wmch came to pafs four years there-it r, in the laft rebellion He hid alfo, M O Scotland lmany, long and gieat fhall thy judgments be, of allitinds efpecially the Wt ft and South, for loathing andlonternpt of the goip-1,covenant breaking,burning and.urying.and Ihedcing of innocent,precious,dear blood!D.! a 1 ye that can pray, tell all the Lord’s people tory, by mourning and prayer, to teaglehim. O ! fee if■ ’e can teagle him, teagle him, teagle him, efpecially inIcotland ; for we fear he will depart from it.” Whenrnded, he laid, “ l ake ye that among you, and make a.i»ood ufe of it ; for I have gotten it new and frefh outif heaven, having nothing of it^this morning.” Thehrefaiu John Muirhead. and the faid old woman, andOthers, told me, they were never witneffes to fuch aday, for many tears, both from preachers and v carers*f 2o. After this, the old woman longed to be hame to”^Scotland, her huiband (whofe name was Pat on being in.Manger, and hearing of fuch a killing in Scotland, being11685, one of the bloody years, upon fcaffolds and in the'fields and indeed the din was no greater than the deed)|lv b.rk being to go off with paflengers, {he refilvmgto:go along, went to take her leave.of Mr. Pedcn, andI round him in a wood with John Muir head, and others of,[>ur .Scots fufterers. She told him her delign, and hemufed a little, and then faid, “ Go not a vay till I fpe.atawith you.” tie took a turn thro’ the wood, and wh$l£ 3tt. ?V . 4.. *• . - -m. C 54 )lit carre bacV, h raid, Jaiet, go back to thy aunt?*for you will not fct Scotland thefe five monchs ; therjwill ftrange things go through Scotland ere you go tcit. you will fee a remarkable providence in your beingft opt.” The bark went off, and was caft awav and i“Apaffengers corpfe were caft out at the place where theyjrtook fliip, John Mu^rhead gave fhe this account -dfo.at \ftcr he came to Scotland, in the beginning ofMarch 1685, flying from the enemy on horfeback, andthey purluing, he was forced to ride a water, where hewas in great danger of being loft : When he got outhe cried, “ L'ds, follow not me, for I affure you, yiwant my boots and fo will certainly drown. Confidenwhere your landing will be ! ye are fighting for helland running faft to it.” Which affrighted them toenter the water22. At atioihi r time, being hard purfued, he was for-evd to take a dangerous bog and a mo s before him: Oneof the Diagc ons more fo'wr.rd than thereff,runhimfelfintothe beg, am he and his horfe were miver fe« n more.23 Lying fitk in a village near Crumnock.he told hisJand ord, who was afraid to keep him inTiis houfP, thefolunrs being to travel through that town the next day,4* Ye neet not f ar to let me ft. y in vour home, forfen c of thffe foldiers fhall keep centry at the door, but/hat! not come in.” Which came top ifs : His landicrdbei g digging ftones at the end o* that sillaf e, told the«fii ers that he was afraid the foldiers would plunder hiscot age. They fail’, *» Poor man, you deferv? encour¬agement f r your virt le ; be not afraid of ycur houfe,we wid 01 er two loldier- to ftand at your door, thatno mar enter to wrong you.” Which they did.24 He lying fick about the fame time, his landlord..was afraid .0 keep him in his home. The enemy beingin, ft arch of hiding p- opie, he w s obliged to make afeed for-him among the Handing corn , at which timethere was a great rifing of the water, hut not one dropfo be obferved within ten foo of his bed25. About this time he fame to Barfield, in the parifh( n )i cf MaucWin, to the houfe of Matthew Ha?, a fnrh.1 He went to his ham. but thought hi nfelf nof fafe, footi and horfe of the enemy being reurchin? for wanderers,aj as they were then railed He dehred the favour ot hisi loft, which Matthew refuled: He fai h “ \Vell, well, poori man, you Will ne t let me have ’he fhe'ter of y ourmof;I bm that houfe {bailee your judg tvent and ruin ” So netime after, the gavel ♦‘f that houiefell, and killed bothihim-nd his fon. Their bodies were feverely cru hed.96. About the fame dme, he came to Aik rew Mor-imand s houl'e, in the p-'riih of AUoway, ihire of .vr,being to preach at nigbi in his barn After he came inhe halted a little, leaning on a chair bac c, with his faceicovered When helifted up his head be fai l “ theylare in thi' houfe that I have no- one word of falvatiohunto!” He halted a little again,isyng, '* This is itrange,that t^e devil will not go out, tt'ai we may begin ou'ritiwoik !”—Then there was a woman went out, in looked;upcn for a witch. John Muir-head formerly mentioned/1 told me, that when he came fro o treUnJ to G lloway,he vus at family-vrorlhip, and giving Ibtne notes uponithe feripture r^ad there was a very ill-looking m*nica nein, and fit down wi hin the door He halted a d,bfaid, “ Tiere is fom- unhappy body jult no w come in¬to this houfe, I charge him o go ut, and not top nyitnouth ” The man went otf, and he infifttc ; but nelifaw him neither come in. nor go out.i.7 In that b oody year inifr, he c me to a houfe inu:he ihire of Ayr, Caot. in John Mn ihiion ana other 12Ibf cur wanderers being in the houfe he faii, “ Lad -,ye nufi go to the fields and feelc you1* btos, for theicnemy wid be here this night, and dl go to my Cxvs ’jlThey laid, ‘Some of us will day withyo'i, for ycuwfiiHveary alone ” *'• No. laid he. I vdi not wea y. Forii. fign that the enemy will be here this mght, a g >J,ylianinent Chriftian man, whom l have often heard if,.Jmt never iawj will come and lie with me his n ght.”Ml which came to pals : for the men fl-.d, a id uc en«ered the cave, and fell ufletp j and a little thereafter.5* >tile fiiid man coming to th-j family, aTcea for Mr. Fe-clen, and defire ' acce1' to ttae cave, to ly with, him :Wht n in bed, he found Mr Peden flambering, but m.a little he awoke, and, mming the mn, aficed how hedid ? I he foldiers c me that night, but mitred theirprev. The next morning, when thefe faid men re-tmned, he faid, *f Lads, it was M?ell I came to thishoufe vefternjgtt otherwise ye Ivd been among theirbloodv hand i this day28. In the faid year 1085, he came to "WVJwood,to Captain John Campbell’s, he having escaped out ofCaoongate-Folbooth, in the month of duguft 1684. j|Being in danger every day, he refolved o go to Ame- 11rica, ai d took farewel of hi friend^, and went aboard* |jof a {hip Mr. Pe.ien laid to bis mother, “ M’ftreis, |what is become of John ?” ihe laid, “ He is gone to |America.’ tie laid, ‘No, no! he is not gone j I^nd Jfor 1 im, for re will never lee America.” Accordingly Itit was tola ftorm arofe, where he was in great dan¬ger, but was preferved, anc is yet alive.2p. Since the publifiiing of the former pafiages ofMr Peden’s lite aud death, I received two letters fromSir Alexander Gordon of Earlrtoun, in the year 1725,and 1726, iince gone to his grave ; {hewing, that he wasnot only fully iatisfied, but much refrefhed, with thepafiages, t equefiing me not to delay the publifhing ofaU that I propofed; and that he longed to fee them be¬fore he went off the ftage : Knowing that my day is far{pent, being long fince' I was his fellow prifoner, andtaught him from my own experience, how to managethe great weight ot irons that was upon his le^s •, and |wifliing that all the Lbrd’s people, who have any zealfor the i'worn to and haled tefiimony, and favoury re- Imembrance of the names fifChril.t’s {lain witnefiels for |the l ame, and of the Lord’s fignal raanifeftations of his ifaithfulneis ard all fufficiency to them, in their life and :•death, would give me all encouragement in fuch a pie e 1of good and great generation-wrork, which, may be uk- rul and edifying when he and [ are both moui lerlng inhe doit. For himfelf, he willing ^ould, and fome-iim» a day could but now, being 74 years of ’ge,md 7 years ii imprifonment. and often time*' in irons,md m ny other trouble*, through his life, his memory,nd judgment were much broke,and therefore he couldnasce me little help.. Only he remembered, he wasmce fent from the fodeues in Gallo ray to Garrick,o call vlr Ped.n to preach : Waxen he told him forVhat end he was o^ne, Mr. Peden went for fo;ne time.lone *, andavhen he came back, he faid “ I a n forrySarlftoun, you are come fo far in vain, for I cannotanfwer your defire: I can get nothing to fay to youroeople: Notiling will convince this generation h it ju ig-ments, and a furpriiing lump of them upon the Well: ofScotland.’ Earlfiroun faid, “ Sir, you was once legallyordained ard au-horifed to preach 'he goipel, and the'Lora’s people’s call is fufScicnt, I think you are under:ia temptation of enthufiakn.” Mr. Peden faid. he fome-times feared that; Out firce he was driven from hitpeople at Glenluce, his Mafter, in mercy and goodnefs,gave him more encouragement; and gave one intiarxce,(That one time he was cadet, and ref lved,and preparedto go, as he thought •, but. when his horfe was drawn,'he went unto the barn once more, where he was driptbarbed all his thoughts,and a ca’kening.dampir g cloudoverwhelmed him, whichItopt him: And he afterwards■few a remarkable providence in it, and need be for it.iAnd; further, he laid, The lull ti ne he law Mr Peden,it was with Mr Cargil, wnere the) continued a long1 time'eomparing rates together , feting with one eye,ijthinli ing with one mind, and ipeaking wiui one breath,fof all things, pad, prcieut, and what was to befal tawfjehixrch and nation.jO. In nislail lermcn, which, a I fad be fore, wasin the Colm wood, he laid, fhat in a few years afterhis death, tuere would be a wonderfu. i teration ofafiairs in Britain and Ireland, aad the perfecutiou in\ v( 58, )Scotland fhould ceafe ; upon which every body (houbelieve the deliverance was come, and ccnfequentlwould fall fatally fecyre. “ But I tell you, laid hyou will be all very much miftaken ; for both Enghnand Scotland will be icomged by loreigners, and a hof unhappy men in thele lands tafcing part wi’h thenbefore any of you can pretend to be happy, or get ;thorough deliverance, w' ich will be a more fevenchaftifem nt thin, any other they have met with, Ojcan come under, if that were once %er.LETTER,FROMMr. ALEXANDER P E D E N,To the Prifontrs in Dtmmtat- CaJUttJuly 1685.Dear Friend*,ILong to hear Irom you, how you fpend your time vand how the grace of Goiigrowj in your hearts.,I know ye, and other of the i_.or.ds people, by reaionof the preteat trial have got up a falhionofcomplainingupon Chrifti but I defy you to tpeak an ill word of him,urjels you wrong h m. bpeak as you can and ipare not}only I requeft that your expreflipns of Chnlt t>e iunableto your experience of him If ye tin it Chrift s houlebe oare and ill provided, auu harder t; an ye looked t >r»afrure yourfetves Ghent minds only to diet you, and notto nungtr you : Jur Steward Kens when to ipend, andwhen to fpare. Chrift knows well, whether heapingor ft raking agrees >elt with our narrow velie s, tor boaare aii ■ 10 him : Sparing wiA not enrich nin’, nor wnifpenUitig im, ovetiiii r.-ut rfet'hmks it ill-won £ri“: iSholden ptf his people, uraoc and. glory cmnes out ofs(hrift’s lucky hand. Our veflels are but fecklefs, andDntain little: His fulnels is oao^ ftraitned when itrant a vent. It is eafy for Chrift to be hoklen bufyi dividing the fulnefs of bis Father’s houre to his poor■iends : He debghts not to keep mercy ovcr-ni£ht.jvery day brings new mercies to the people of Go 1:le is the eaiieft merchant ever tbe people of G ad yokedith : If ye be pleated with the wares, what of histcces makes btft ftfr you he and you will foon fort onae price ; he will fell goods cheap, that ye may fpier>r his (hop again ; and he draws all the fale tohimf !f.ccunfel you to go no farther tlaan Cbrid. And'nowihen it is come to your Poor, either to tin or fuffer,:counfel you to lay your account with fufFering ; forn out-gate coming from any other airth, will be pre-I dicial to your foul’s inter ft. And for your encou¬ragement, remember he fends none a warfare on theirikvn charges. And oleft is the man that gives Chriftiil his money. It will be heft with you to block within, when you want hand-money. And the hfs youave, he has the more heart tp truft you. And fo it isreft with you to keep in with your old acquaintancethrift. New acquaintance with ftrange lords, is theiiady way to make a wound in grace’s fide, which willot heal in hade ; the fore may dole before the wound,ry up, for grace is a tencer place, and is very eafily'(idempered with the backflidings of our prefent time.And if the wheels of it be once broken witn fin, all theihoney in the World yill not make it go about, until it[e put in Chrift’s hand I hope I have faid more oninis matter than is needful ; fof I have feen the marksf tendernels deeply drawn on your carriage, fhe fafeft/ay to ftiift the ftiower, is to hold out of God’s gate,. id beep within his doors, until the violence of the-icrm begin to elb, which is not yet full tide. Chriftjeals tenderly with his young plant*, and waters hem,‘t, left they go back ; be painful and no:; lofe life forjie feeking. Grace, mercy and pea^e be with you.The EPITAPHUpon the Mar'yrt Monument tu the GrayfriartChu+cb-yard in hdu.bur^hUpon the Hend of the Tomb there is the Efllgi<-s ofan open Bible drawn, with thefe.Scripture-cnations,Rev vi 7 so, ii. And •when he had opened the fifthft'il) l fuw unde' the altar the fuuh tf them that hadbeen fiain for the urd it God, and fir the ItHnnony•which they heil, tsV —Rev. vii. 44.Aljo the following Lines.f ""f” ALT, ptlTengers, take heed what you do fee,This Toinlvck)! b flu w for what fomf men did die }Here lies interr’d the duft of 1 hole who flood’Gai ft perjury, refifung uitto blood iAdhering to the Covenants and Laws,Eftahkfldr g the isme ; which war the caufeTheir lives were facrific'd dnto the iu VOf Prelatifts abjur’d. Though here their duftLies mix’d with murderers, and otiitr crew.Whom juft>ce juftly did, to death purfue •,But as for thete, no caufe irvtlum was foundWorthy of deatn, bi t only they ivere found,Coriunt amt ftedfafl. zealous, witneiThigFor the prerogatives of Christ their King.Which i ruths were feal’d bj famous Gutnric’s head,And all along to Mr. Renwick s blood.They did cm ur» the wrath of enemie ,Reproacl es, torments, deaths and injuries ;But yet ihey retliefe who from Juch trouble came,And now triumph in iilory with the Lamb.'From May 1 jth, 166 , that the noble Marquis of;■Argyle luft'ored, to Feb. 27, 2^89, that Mr James Renf!wicktuftired, lOoMobiemcn, Gentlemen,Mimfters and!others, were executed at Edinburgh, noble Martyr*for Jesus Chrisr. The moft part of them lie here.!It is alio laid, that x8;coo fuffered in the late periecUytioft in Stotiand. *FINIS.