THE HISTORY OFB U C H A V E NIX FIFESHIRE,CONTAINING THE WITTY AND ENTERTAINING EXPLOITS OPWSIuMK,ANDWITTY E TRY,THE A EE WIFE.ADORNED WITH WOODCUTS.PRINTED FOR THE ROOKSELLERS.^ OF SCOTtANt) fV'^PfNFMIeTHEH I S T O R YOFBUCHAYEN.In the county of Fife, on the sea-cost,there stands a little town, inhabited byfew but fishers, called Buckey harbour.because of sea buckles and shells to hefound so plenty on the rocks about thatplace. There is little mention made ofthis town by historians, to know its ori¬ginal extraction and antiquities, but intheir own Burges-ticket, which waspartly truth, but more of it by way oflampoon. This Ticket was dated the4two and thirtieth day of the month ofJulius Caesar. Their Coat of Arms wastwo hands gripping each other over aScate’s rumple. Their oath was, “ Iwish that de de’il may tak me an I binnaan honest man to you, an yc binna dclike to me.” An article of good neigh¬bourhood they had, whoever was firstup in a good morning, was to raise allthe rest to go to seu; but if a very badmorning, piss and go to bed again tillbreak of day, then raise wise Willy,who could judge of the weather by theblawing of the wind. Their freedomswere to take all sorts offish containedin their tickets, viz.:—Lobsters, partens,podles, spout-fish,, sea-cats, sea-dogs,fluks, piks, dick-puddocks,and p—fish.Again, these people are said to havedescended from one Tom and his twosons, who were fishers on the coast ofNorway, who, in a violent storm, wereblown over, and got a-shore at Buck-harbour, where they settled ; and thewhole of his children were called Thom¬sons, and soon became a little town bythemselves, as few of any other namedwelt among' them. This is atraditionalstory handed down from one generationto another.—They kept but little com¬munication with the country peopleabout them, for a farmer, in those days,thought his daughter cast away, if shemarried one of the other hand ; WittyEppie the ale-wife, wad a sworn Bugo,laddie, L wad rather see my boat and a’my three sons daded against the Bassor I saw7 ony ane o’ them married to amuck-a-byre’s daughter ; a wheen useless tawpies, it can do naething but riveat a tow-rock and cut corn, they canneither bait a hook nor redd aline, hooksand-eels, nor gather pirriwinkles.Now, Wise Willie and Witty Eppie theale-wife, lived there about a hundredyears ago. Eppie’s chamber was theirCollege and Court-House where theydecided controversies, and explainedtheir wonders ; for the house was like adoor : the wives got leave to flyte theirfill, but fighting was prohibited, as Ep-pie said, up-hands was fair play. Theirfines was a pint o’ ale, and Eppie soldit at a plack the pint. They had nei¬ther minister nor magistrate, nor yet a jburly bailie, to brag them wi’ his tol-booth. The Lord o’ the manor decidedall disputable points, and Wise Willieand Witty Eppie were the rulers of thetown.Now Eppie had a daughter, she ca’dLingle-tail’d Nancy, because ot herfeckless growth; her waist was like atwitter, had nae curpen for a creel,i7being Edinburgh bred, and brought upwi’ her Louden aunty, was learned toread and sew, make coarse claiths andcalicoe mancoes ; there was nae scholarin the town but hersel, she read thebible, and the book of kirk sangs thatwas newly come in fashion. Willie andEppie tell’d them aye what he meant,and said a’ the letters in it was littedby my Lord, for they saw him hae afeather that he dipt in black water, andmade crooked scoj es, just like thesame;and then he spake o’er again, and ittell’d him what to sav.•/It happened on a day that two oftheir wives near the town, found a horseshoe, and brought it home and sent forWillie to see what it was; Willie comesand looks at it; Indeed, co’ Willie, itsa thing and holes in’t. I kent, co’ they,he wad get a name till’t. A’ ho’! co’Willie, whar did ye find'it? Aneathmy Lord’s ain house, Willie. Adeed,said Willie, it’s the auld moon, I kenby the holes in’t, for nailing it to the.eft; but I wander if she fell in Fyfe,for the last time I saw her, she washinging on her back aboon Edinburgh.A-hech, co’ Willie, we’ll set her upon5the highest house in the town, and we’llhae moonlight o’ our ain a’ the days o’the year. The whole town ran to seetiie moon! Honest tout, said WittyEppie, ye’re but a’ fools thegither ; itsbut ane o’ the things it my Lord’s marewears upon her lute.At another time one of the wives founda hare with its legs broken, lying amongher kail in the yard. She not knowingwhat it was, called out to her neigh¬bours to see it; some said it was a gen¬tleman’s cat, or my lady’s lap dog, or asheep’s young kiitlen, because it hadsaft horns. Na, na, cried Wise Willie,its anc o’ the maukins that gentlemen’sdogs worie, what will we do vvi’t?Faith, co’ they all, we’ll singe the wooatf and make fish and sauce o’t to myTammy’s pan itch. Na, na, said WittyEppie, better gie’t to my Lord, andhe’ll stap an iron stick through theguts o’t, and gart rin round afore thefire till it be roasted.tyIt happened on a dark winter morn¬ing, that two of their wives were goingto Dysart to sell their fish ; and on theroad side there happened to be sometinker’s ass teeth red. The poor assseeing the two wives coming with thecreels, thought it was the tinkers comingto flit or relieve him, fell a-crying, thetwo wives threw their fish a’ aw a’, andran hame like mad persons, crying theyhad seen the deil, ay, the very horneddeil, and that he spoke to them but theydidna ken what he said, for it was vvaurlOthan a highland man's ; the whole townwas in an uproar ; some would go withpicks and spades, and hagg him topieces ; others would go and catch himin a strong net, and then they wouldeither hang or drown him. Na, na,co’ Wise Willie, we manna cast out wi’him at the first, as he’s gotten the twaburden’s o’ fish, he’ll e’en gang his wa,and no fash us nae mair ; he is o’ersouple to be catch’d in a net; a’ yourpith will neither hang nor drown him,and the kintra he comes frae is a’ hetcoals, he’d never burn. We’ll gae tohim in a civil manner, and see what hewants. Get out Witty Eppie and lingle-tail’d Nancy wi’ the Bible and Psalm¬book. So aff they came in a crowd, eitherto kill the deil, or catch him alive ; andas they came near the place, the ass fella-crying, which caused many of themto faint and run back. Na, na, co’Willie, that’s no the deil’s words at a’,its my Lord’s trumpeter, routing on hisbrass whistle. Willie ventured till hesawthe ass’s twa lugs. Now, said Wihie,come forward, an’ baud him fast, I seehis twa horns ; hech.sirs, he has a whitebeard like an auld man. So they in cl os-11ed the poor ass on all sides, thinking itwas the dell ; but when Wise Williesaw he had nae cloven feet, he criedout, Scania lads, this is not the deil, it’ssome living beast; it’s neither cow norhorse. An’what is’t then, Willie ? In¬deed, co Willie, it’s the father of theinaukins, I ken by its lang lugs.Now some say this history is too sa¬tirical, but it is according to the know¬ledge of those times, not to say oneone place by another. The old wiveswill tell you yet of many such stories ofthe devil appearing to their grand¬fathers and grandmothers, and deadwives coming back again to visit theirfamilies long after being dead. So thisBuchaven was once noted for droll ex¬ploits ; but it is now become betterknown, and a place that produces thehardiest sailors of any town on the Scotscoast. Yet many of the old people init still retain the old tincture of theirancient and uncultivated speech, suchas Be-go, laddie ; they are also of a fierynature, for if you ask any of their wiveswhere their college stands, they’ll tellyou, if your nose was in their a—e, yourmouth would be at the door of it.Now, it happened when Wise Willieturned old, he took a great swelling inhis wame, and casting up his kail, col-lops, and canid fish, that nothing couldstand on his stomach; and a stoutstomach he had for crabs heads, andscate broo, or brose in a bridal morning;yet it fail’d him, and he fell sick. Nonecoidd cure him, nor tell what ail’d him,till a mountebank stage doctor came toKircaldy that could judge by people’spiss the trouble of their person. WiseWillie hearing of ids fame, pissed intoI13tiie bottle, and sent it away with hisdaughter. The bottle being uncorked,his daughter spilt it by the way, andto conceal her sloth in so doing, pissedin it herself, and on she goes till shecame to the stage-doctor, when shecried out aloud, Sir Doctor, Sir Doctor,i here is a bottle of my father’s wash, hehas a sair guts, and needs na drite ony,but spites a’ he eats. It’s true I telllyou, my dow. 'I he doctor looks at it,then says, it’s not your father’s surely,it’s your milher’s. The deil’s in theman, said she, divna I ken my fatherfrae my mother. Then, said he, he iswith child. The deil’s in the man,ico’ she, for my mither bare a’ de bairnsbefore; dat’s no true, sir, fegs ye’re agreat liar. Hame she comes, and tell’dWillie, her father, that the doctor saidhe was wi’ bairn. O waes me, co’Will e, for I hae a muckle wame, an’ I!fear its owre true. O plague on you,Janet, for ye’re the father o’t, an’ I amsure to die in the bearing o’t. WittyEppie was sent for, as she was a houdie,Jj an’ she fand a* Willie’s wame, to be sure| about it Indeed, co’ Eppie, ye’re the{first man ere I saw wi’ bairn before.14and how ye’ll bare it, troth I ditnia ken,but 1 would drink salt sea-water anddrown it in my guts—for if men getance the gate o’ bearing weans them¬selves, they’ll need nae mair wives. So !Willie drank sea-water till his guts waslike to rive, and out he got to ease him¬self among the kail; and with the terri¬ble noise of his farting, up starts amaukin behind him, who thought itwas shot. Willie seeing her jump o’er |the dyke, thought it was a child broughtforth, and cried out, come back, mydear, and be christened, and dinna rin jto the hills to be a pagan. So Williegrew better every day thereafter, beingbrought to bed in the kail yard; buthis daughter was brought to bed somemonths after, which was the cause of jthe doctor’s mistake.Now Wise Willie had a daughtercalled Rolling Coughing Jenny, be¬cause she spak thick, sax words atthree times, half sense and half non¬sense, as her own records will bear wit¬ness. She being with child, and deli'eredof a bonnie lassie; and all the wivin the town cried out be-go, laddie, if15|ust like its ain father, lang Sandy Ta-]son (or Thomson), we ken by Ins lang[inose ; for Sandy had a gre-at mucklered nose, like a labster’s tae, bowed atthe point like a hawk’s neb, and Sandyhimself said that it was surely his, orHome other body’s; but he had useda’ his bir at the getting o’t to try hisabilities, being the first time ever heilvas at sic a business before; and whenlie had done a’ that man could do at it,lie said it was nonsense; and shame fa’dm, but he would rather row his boatround the Bass and back again, or he’ddo the like again ; for Wise Willie gadewude at the bairn, and said it had mairill nature than the auldest wife in thetown, for it pissed the bed, skirl’d like awild cat, & kept himfrae his night’s rest;the auld hags about the town ca’d himSandy the bairn’s daddy ; and a* theyoung gillie-gaukies o’ lasses held outtheir fingers and cried, Ti hi hi, Sandy,(the Kirk will kittle your hips for that:And after a’ the blear-eye’d belt-mancame bladeringabout the buttock meal,summoned him and her before the halyband—a court that was held in the Kirkon Saturday morning—and all the herdladdies round about cried, Ay, ay, San¬dy, pay the bull-siller, or we’ll cut the ,cow’s tail awa\ So poor Sandy suffer¬ed sadiv in the flesh, besides the pen ialty and Kirk penance. IBut Wise Willie had pity on them.land gade vvi’ them to the Kirk-court,I1 what learned fouk call the Session.i , Jenny was first called upon, and in she| goes where a’ the haly hand was con-vened, elders and younger deacons,and dog payers, keeping the door, theit cankerdest carles that could be gotten■ between Dysart and Duddy-side—-■ white heads and bald heads sitting; wantin’ bonnets, wi’ their white headedii staffs, and hodden grey jockey-coatslii about them.Mess John says, come away, Janet,j I we’re waiting on you here.Min.—Now, Janet, where was thisichild gotten? you must tell us thisIplainly.Jan.—Adeed sir, it was gotten atlithe black stanes, at the cheek of theIcrabb holes.Mess John stares at her, not know-rting the place, but some of the eldersi did. Then said he, O Janet, but thet devil was busy with you at that time !Jan.—A, by my fegs sir, that’s a•great lie ye’re telling now, for the deiljwasna there that I saw, nor ony bodyilelse, to bid us do ae thing or anither :awe lo’ed ither unco weel for a lan<rIStime before that, an syne we tell’dj**ither, and agreed to marry ither, likelj11lionest fouk; then might na we learn «to do the thing married fouk do, with¬out the deil helping us.Whisht, whisht, cried they, yeshould |be scourged, sausie loon qnien thatthou ;|is, ye’re speaking nonsense.Jan.—De deil’s i’ the carles, for i fyou and your ministers are liars, when ‘ 1ye say it is de deil it was helping;*Sandy and me to get de bairn.Come, come, said they, pay down 1tne Kirk-dues, and come back to the :stool the morn; the price is fourpound, and a groat to the bell-man.19Jan.—Tlie auld thief speed theiarth o’t, sir, far less might sair youind your bell-man baith. O but this3e a world indeed, when poor lione^t;rouk maun pay for making use o’ theirun a—! Ye misca the poor deil a-nint his back, an’ gies him the wyte ofi de ill in de kintry, bastard bairns andevery thing; and if it be say as ye say,|Te may thank de deil for that fourpound and a groat I hae gien you;hat gars your pat play brown, an getsyou jockey-coats, and purl-handedarks, and white-headed staves, whenmy father’s pot wallops up nought but)ear and blue water.The woman is mad, said they, for thisnoney is all given to the poor of thearish!!Jan.—The poor of the parish! Feinta hate ye gie to them but we pickles o’pease-meal, didna I see their pocks ?an’ the minister’s wife gies naethingava to unco beggars, but bids themgae to their ain parishes; and yet ye’lltak the purse frae us for naething butplaying the loon a wee or we be mar¬ried, and syne cock them up to belooked on, and laugh’d at by everybody: a deil speed you and your jus-jlice", sir. Hute tute, ye’re a’ coming!on me like a wheen colly dogs, huntiling awa a poor raggit chapman fraejlthe door. So out she goes cursing andeeting.Sandy is next called upon, and in he*goes.Min.—Now, Saunders, you must tellus how this child was gotten.San.—A now, Mess John, sir, ye haejbairns o’ your ain, how did ye get-them ? But yours are a’ laddies, andmine is but a lassie ; if you tell mehow you get your laddies, I’ll tell youhow I got my lassie, and then we’ll bebaith alike good o’ the business.The minister looks at him and says,Hute, tute, Saunders, lay down fourpund and a groat, and come back themorn to the stool, and give satisfactionto the congregation ; you had moreneed to be seeking repentance for thatjabominable sin of uncleanness thanspeaking so to me.San.—Well, here’s your siller, sir, 1hae gotten but poor penny-worthslfor’t, an’ ye tell me to repent for’t ;|what, the auld thief, needs I repentwhen I’m gaun to marry the woman,an’ then I’ll hae to do’t o’er again everyday, or there’ll be nae peace in thehouse ; figs, it's nonsense to pay siller,repent, and do’t again, too: a finei advice, indeed, master minister! andthat’s the way the like o’ you live.Now, sir, says Wise Willie, ye mannaj put them on the black creepy till theybe married; they’ve suffered enough atae time.A-weel, a-weel, said they, but theymust marry very soon.” I, true, says Sandy, ye’ll be wantingmair clink; foul haet ye do for naethighere.'Fhe next exploit was an action atlaw against the goodman of Muiredge,a farmer, who lived near by, that keptsheep and swine. His sheep camedown and broke their yards, and ateup their kail. The wild hares they! thought belonged to the man, as theyran to his house when they werehunted. The swine came very oftenin about their houses, seeking fish guts,and ony thing they could get. Soit happened, when one of the childreni22was sitting casing itself, that one ofthe swine tumbled it over, and bit a|piece out of its backside! The wholetown rose in an uproar against poorgrunkie, as they called her, and takes ,her before Wise Willie. Willie tookan axe and cut two or three inches offher long nose. Now, says Willie, Itrow I hae made thee something like,anither beast: thou had sic a langmouth before, it wad a frighted a verydeil to look at ve: but now vour fac’dJr ylike a little horse or cow. The poor sowran home roaring, all blood, and want¬ing the nose; which caused Muiredgeto warn them in before my Lord. Sothe wives that had their kail eaten ap¬peared first in the court, complainingagainst Muiredge. Indeed, my Lord,said they, Muiredge is no a good man,when he is sic an ill neighbour. Hekeeps black hares an’ white hares, little iwee brown-backed hares wi’white arses,and loose waggin horns; they creep inat our gush-holes, an’ does the like;when we cry, pussie, pussie, they rin Ihame to Muiredge: but I’ll gar my Icollv had them by the foot, an’ I’ll had Iy.sthem by tiie horn, an’ pull the hair allI them, anti send ’em hame wanting theIskin, as he did Sowen Tammie’s weeSandy, for codin o’ his pease, he tooktaff the poor laddie’s coat, and sae didhe e’en. And Willie said, if ye were aI sow, my Lord, and me sitting driting,and you to bite my arse, sudna I haeamends o’ you for that ? Odd, my| Lord, ye wadna hae a bit out o’ yourarse for twinty marks. Ye maun e’engar Muiredge gie ten marks to buy aplaster to heal the poor bit wean’s arseagain.Well said, Willie, says my Lord;but who put on the sow’s nose again.A, fegs, my Lord, said Willie, she’sj: honester like wantin’t, an’ she’ll bitej nae mair arses wi’t. An ye had baneu a nose, my Lord, as lang as the sow,ye’d been obliged to onv body it wadcut a piece aft.A gentleman coming past near theirtown, asked one of their wives where-I i 2410their college stood ? Said she, gie mea shilling an’ I’ll let yon see baith sideso’t He gives her the shilling, thinkingto see something curious. Now, saysshe, there’s the one sklfe oi’your shilling,and there’s the other ; so it is minenow., Tliep was a custom in BucteJliarbdur, when they got a hearty dritiK, jthat they we.nt tlown to dance amongthe boats; two or three of the oldestwent into a boat to -see the residence,and when f they admieted a burgher,there was also a dance. One day they ;admitted gly’d Rob, who was awarlock, and made them all stop theirdancino- for which he was carried be-fore Wise W"Hle to answer for that, forwhich he was banished to the Isle ofMay, to carry coals to the LightHouse.