AN ACCOUNT OF THEmpiisonment anD SjcccutionOFpoor mmis• f n IrlsHm an.i ho was Hung for Robbery, and afterwardsstored to life by his Friends, and is now hinny inneric a!!!WITH AN ACCOUNTA III&ll WAYJIAAWHOM HE EMPLOYEDTO ROB HIS MASTER.GLASGOW:I. & It. fie CO..5, Melville Place, 132, Trongate.*3fMresocuouwgo65!»»sJ>cv» gHS'w•NM►.jiSH.g«OU»■5^ -5'--> toS- itS3Sta~ 3’iv 5* Ccp^ s:a oI. ^i->.•a 2ja,.< adc ^c" e;^ re■- O w■—v., »S.g'"-! i ro O -u», »o»«-*S5om*4S3^3oHis;aou>o. -• joit C'tr ni q't-jla oj muibfiomifl ilti'.v >98-f • /iioo— iifi Jiiobrij Jwtuol f)it;c 9fiJ bobsri eri fncai Bsiojinriftxioraaroofiir Bob gtiibnBtsiabou 6 ‘j,H .rioraau'iqxe I»au hnim io sue-s.ff'Hi 9lfj 'IBarf oj feuoixufi 3767/fix 367/Jon si 36 t -8 .iM noidy/ t8-i9q6qno! lo\bu6l9-rl Tto l iuq aiiil ui BiUqninovs lie io Bibinocful eifj oJ b69i.visddm aniiciAN mi:odJ—*i9gnini8 odJ 'io sonBtisJauoo sdiU 118 03 36 mid viotriis aoi839TqX9.sni. >i aid ,f>9uni}iiOoaib 9i{ }6ii‘In the harvest ot 1798, a stiangerapplied to Mr. S ibr employ¬ment ; he was an uncommonly ableyoung man, and dirl as much workas any two of the labourers, yet henever threw off his coat as the othersdid, and his left arm was tied up ;he said, he had, received a sljght hurtin it from a splinter of wood : as helooked very pale and thin, Mr. S——,from, motives of humanity, allowedDENNISf ilcp] lgJEUSq *iO; Jgoni 6 889'I9fiW 113H TALE )A4him to sleep in the house.Mr. S conversed with him oftenon the fields, and found, though anuntutored man, he had great strengthene understanding and uncommonenergy of mind and expression. Hewas always anxious to hear the news¬papers, which Mr. S , as is notunusual in this part of Ireland, of tenread to the labourers of an evening,after their work was finished. Onone of those occasions he stumbledon a paragraph, beginning with,“ Whereas a most daring robbery. ”At this instant his eyes rested onthe countenance of the stranger—theexpression struck him as so singularthat he discontinued, his reading.On retiring to his room he read thearticle in question. It gave an ac¬count of a most daring robbery, com¬mitted a short time before, by fourarmed ruffians, one of whom, waskilled and another supposed to bedesperately wounded; an exactdescription of the person of the latterfollowed, and Mr, S had littledoubt that he was the stranger whomhe had taken into his familv. He did5not hesitate a moment on what heshould do, but brought the strangerin, shut the door, and read to him,the paragraph without comment,the other listened without betrayingany emotion.“I see what you suspect, ” said he;“ you think I am the person. ”Mr. S was silent.“ You may give me up to justice,if you will,” proceeded the man. “Ishall make no resistance ; I am inno¬cent, and have nothing to fear. ”” Were you innocent, I shouldgive you up to justice, ” said Mr.$—-—, “ for then you would havenothing, but I know you are guilty,and have every thing to fear. Goyour ways, then, and betake yourselfto a place of safety. ”“ Do you mean, ” said the man,“that you will not send the officersafter me ? ”“ I mean, ” said Mr. S , “ todo you no harm; I shall pay youyour wages, and you may go yourways.”The man instantly threw aside hiscoat, which hung loose over his left6ami; in the sanle hurried manner hetore off the dressing from the sore ;the hanid had been shattered by aball, and had been amputated by acountry apothecary in a bunglingmanner. The sight of the woundfilled Mr. S -with horror : it wascovered with filth, and crawling withmaggots.u I have suffer’d this,” said therobber, “ without a groan ;T could goto the gallows without a teat*; butcannot bear your goodness, it over-Ootnes ihe.”It did fully Overcome him, for hewept and sobbed aloud. He then,to the astonishment of Mr. 8—1—,confessed that he was not in his em¬ployment by accident, but in con¬sequence of a scheme of his man¬servant, Derinis. He had been shel¬tered ih the cabin of the father of thelatter, before he applied to Mr. S for emplojunent. The misguidedman had often meditated robbing hismaster, but shrunk dismayed from sodaring a crime. The presence of soadventurous a robber encouraged him.He opened his plan to him to w hichthe other readily consented. Theyonly waited until Mr. S—-—shouldreceive his half year’s stipend^ tocarry it into execution.His master summoned him, and•harged him with the crime ne hadmeditated. He was sulky, andwould confess nothing. Mr. S gave them much good, advice, whichthe robber repaid with tears andbless-ings ; the servant with threats of re¬venge for the injury he had clone hischaracter.A few weeks afterwards, he learn¬ed, that, the unfortunate robber haddied of a mortification in his arm, ina cabin on a neighbouring moufrtaih.The following year Mr. S hadoccasion to go to a tovvn 30 miles dis¬tant : towards evening, when he waSvery near it, he was surrounded by a'party of men, who pulled him froinhis horse, and proceeded to rifle hispockets. Among them he recog¬nised his man Dennis, who, notwith¬standing the manner in which heparted with his employer, interferedon his behalf, and his companions al¬lowed him to proceed.8The career of a robber is short: afew weeks after this event, Dennis andone of his companions were taken inthe act of robbery, tried and convict¬ed. Mr. S received a messagefrom his unfortunate man, beggingsome money to assist in burying him.This is one of the strongest appealsthat can be made to charity, and aman who refused this assistance, wouldbe considered a barbarian. Mr. S was not the man to refuse is; he re¬solved even to go himself, and ad¬minister consolation to the poorcondemned. It was the night beforethe execution. As he approachedthe gaol, he endeavoured to summonup resolution to meet the scene of woehe expected. It was a scene of noiseand confusion. A crowd was assem¬bled before the grated door of the cell.Dennis was mounted on his coffin,from which, as from a pulpit, he ad¬dressed them, begging money to buryhim, and pray his soul out of purga¬tory. He rated those who were tardyin drawing out their purses, scoldedothers who had already given, fornot standing back to make room for9new comers; wept, preached, andprayed, all in the course of a fewminutes. No sooner did he see Mr.S , than he descended from hisrostrum. He wept bitterly as theywent apart together.“ To think of my ill-luck,” said he,“ in quitting the trade. I was comingwith my comrade to see my friends,and then take up, as you advised me,to go to America; and to be takenfor nothing else, and hanged like adog.”“ Nothing else!” said Mr* S ,“ did you not rob a gentleman andlady ?”“ Of nothing but seven two-poundnotes, and a handful of silver,” saidthe other, “and that was to pay ourpassage: we couldn’t go to Americawithout money, you know.”Mr. S , now attempted to givehim some spiritual advice.“ Don’t, dear master,” interruptedhe ; don’t, for the love of speakabout it. I have settled all themthings with priest Higgins ; and itmight be the loss of my poor sorvl, ifa man of another sect meddled with it.”10Mr. &   then turned to bis eouj-punion, who wuts seated on a stone atthe extremity of the .ce.lj.“ Js/the|'e any thing I .e-ao do forymP’^iak^^fuftPj .IjdWjTt-f Nfithing,”replied the other. oJlm;;Mr.8—pp-evajifedofihinito hear a prayer or two, and left himtil a hotter state p|rp^d..eiiTho-followiingHda^fhe.and his com-paMon^eretppf.on a.cai', and brought,umhejithe efteortpf a party of soldiers,to the neighbourhood where the rob¬bery committed. A gallowswas erected jft a fjeld- The criminalswere allowed to rest themselves for afew minutes in a cabin. They, here,as is the universal custom of die un¬fortunate persons who are to be e.y-eputed in Ireland, put pn their deaddress. This consists of a shroud apdcap, with a bluck ribbon, and gives aperson clothed in it, the look of aspectre, as imagination forms it, orof a corpse newly raised from thetomb. Poor Dennis came out witha show of great fortitude; but it en¬tirely forsook him when hecasthiseyeson his fellow-sufferer, and beheld in11lun],usina Biirmi;,ttie reflection of hisown funeral appearance. Ueuttereda wild sliriekvand fell senseless on thegrpund. The reality of death seerh-^id now, for the first time, fairly tohave struck him. It seemed neverto have made a thorough impressionupon him, uutj .^sentedhis imagination through the mediumof his senses. When the car arrivedat the fatal spot, he could scarcely besaid to be. alive; his eyes were closed,his heart scarcely beat, and all colouriiad left his face. The conduct olhis fellow-sufferer was calm and in-U'^ul 1 YdqoeofhhMr. kind leave ofinm; he was affected,5 andT' e^hfelt his cheek moistened j he couldnot be mistaken, for jb.'jfg the forceof sympathy, a tear started inthe poor sufferer’s eye; out he instant¬ly recovered himself, and shook Mi.S by the hand. “ I have livedthe life of a brut*3,” said he, /‘ but 1wish to die like a man.” Mr. 8——rode to his own house, which was a-bout seven miles from the place ofexecution. It was the latter end of   ■-o.vo vijim12summer. About dawning day, hewas awakened by a noise in the room;hedrew the curtains, and a figure, likeone of the hanged men, in its shroudand dead cap, stood pale and sad atthe window. He rubbed his eves,he strove to waken himself; he turnedhimself in his bed ; he stretched him¬self forward, and endeavoured to pen¬etrate the gloom ; the figure of sleepdid not, as he imagined it would,melt into thin air; it moved its eyeseven, it opened and shut its mouth,it seemed preparing itself to speak.Nature was now too strong either forreason or philosophy; a cold dampbedewed his forehead, and he layspeechless and almost senseless. Thephantom approached the bed, and fellon its knees before him.—“ Master,’’said it, remember I have “ saved yourlife, now save mine.”It was Dennis, the poor hangedDennis; his fears had saved him. Hehad to be supported on the car as itwas drawn slowly away, and he swunggently off: his fellow-sufferer threwhimself with violence, and was almostinstantly dead. Dennis was likewise13a tall man, the gallows was low, andhis feet at times touched the ground.After hanging the limited time, hewas cut down and given to his friends;he was carried to the nearest cabin,and as is almost always done in Ire¬land, all the vulgar methods in usewere practised to recover him; hisfeet were put in warm water, he wasblooded by a countryman with a rustylancet, and rubbed with spirits, whichwere likewise applied to his nostrilsand lips, and poured down his throat.He opened, at length, his eyes^ andmilk was given him from a woman’sbreast, which, in Ireland, is consider¬ed a medicine of great efficacy.When night came on, he resolvedto go to his employer’s house, which,across the fields, was not more thanfour miles off. He was advised tolay aside his dead-dress, now that hehad so unexpectedly come among theliving; but it was too valuable a pieceof finery, and had cost Dennis toomuch oratory the preceding day, tobe parted with so readily. He metnobody on the road ; but if he had,his dress would have been his protec-14tion ; for.eyftry one would have runfrom him, as from a .ghost. He mighthave gone in any djijess, however, insecurity; few people, in any country,would be willing to lead to the gal¬lons a man just escaped from it; fewpeople in Ireland would mfioje to runsome risk to .save Ijini fiioiu it. Heknew vv^li the room where his masterslept, opened the window, and .step¬ped into it from the garden. Mr. 8.kept him for some time in his house,ai) dthen got him put on board a ves¬sel hound for America, where he ar¬rive d in safety. He is at present aporter in Baltimore, is married, andthe father of several children. WhenTime has thrown its dark mantle overthe origin of their family, the descen¬dants of poor hanged Dennis mayrank with the best in America.thslWptyan oh badbed brie .yiynii jo1 .yiibxm oh dtiw boliat! adAJxusiAvm iiojia^wa: am-uoo gnisd ainsvaB ioisqiii3 srfTill 'IQ OHO f jIloY Jii )H'ro rfji// ; tbib bhow arft Jfiri) mid bio) aroiliuooANECDOTES.•i'OfOTi rfo«m O'i Oil iilU! ,T:>if)n-m3od)doidy/oT .oa^oaib Jfid) d)iwoimmo od) olxri 1 ?-ii8 tboiIqoT i6io<j: viij xl)iv/ )on biux ,V,vvi^. ym dti //A KIM m A PHILOSOPHEH.George III. while walking one dayat Windsor, met a smart little boywho was d/ess^d in g syil of newclothes. 'I^xe king, addressing himin his familiar way!, said, t‘ Well, mylittle fellow1 to whom do you belongpVThe boy knew the king, and answer¬ed, “An’t please your Majesty, Ibelong to one df his Majesty’s beefeaters.” The king was so w7ell pleas¬ed with the little fellow that he said,“ If you bend down oh your knee Iwill allow you to kiss my hand.”“ Nay,” said the boy, “ I can’t dothat, for I would dirty all my newbreeches.”‘' aoiraq-ov/) ei ore if pmail ail16THE EMPEROR SEVERUS.The Emperor Severus being con¬fined with gout at York, one of hiscourtiers told him that the world didadmire how he could govern so manynations, separated so far from oneanother, and he so much troubledwith that disease. To which the Em¬peror replied. Sir, I rule the empirewith my head, and not with my feet;with my temples, and not with mytoes.CARDINAL WOLSEY.An extravagant young noblemanhaving sold a manor which containedone hundred tenements, came rufflinginto court in a new suit, saying,“Am not la mighty man to bearan hundred houses on my back ?Cardinal Wolsey hearing this, said,“ You might have employed themoney better in paying your debts.“ Indeed, my lord,” said the other,“ you say well, for my father owedyour father three half-pence for a,calf’s head, here is two-pence for it.”17A RETORT.'• 1 ' ; > .-;i" - ■t1The late Alexander Bilslaiid, HighStreet, was a man of some wit, andvery good at a retort; he was veryirritable and easily offended. Onedaya poor student offended him and gotsome crusty answer, when the domi^nie said, “ Yere unco short the day,Saunders.” “Od man,” said the other,‘‘Yere no sae lang yeresef.”A WITNESSA witness was examined before ajudge in a case of slander, who re¬quired him to repeat the precise wordsspoken. The witness hesitated un¬til he rivetted the attention of thecourt upon him : then, fixing his eyesearnestly on the judge, began—“Mayit please your honour, you lie, andand steal, get your living by stealing!”18'iKO.TJ-TThe face of the judge reddened, andhe immediately exclaimed, “ Turn tothe Jury, sir.”hnn .try orHpa 16 ii£fn s:. r.sw Jowl'S.   — rs,VJBUsaO .hhhuoflO vfiece Imc eldciiniA simple Highland girh on herway home for the north, called theother day, as she passed by Crieff,upon an old master, with whom shehad formerly served. Being kindlyinvited by him to share in the familydinner, and the usual ceremony ofasking a blessing having been gonethrough, the poor girl, anxious tocompliment, as she conceived, her an¬cient host, exclaimed, “ Ah, master,ye maun hae a grand memory, forthat’s the grace ye had when I waswi’ you seven years ago.”-i i Orf /r bush to osbo jj iu 9gbsr(. \ > 'j—l ; i <■! i, , ■; i :| ! .v jji.-flu boietisoff gganfiw odT .leoloqA TAVERN INCIDENT.A travellerdomicihng at an Americanhotpl, exclaimed one morning to thewaiter, “ What are you about, youblack rascal, you have roused meIK19\{twice froWi mj sleep by telling mebreakfast is ready, and now . you areattemping to strip off the bed-clothes:what do you. mean Ph “ Why,” re-plied rompey, “ It you isn t gom togit up, I nnjst l\ab de sheet any how,’cause rley’r waitm’ for de table clof.”ti oar. Jiosnlo-i isifto aifj jJii Hii . r.q■ edi ^-:!r I>/;i - t; ;u isiosii orft ‘t bstJiradua 9d bluod-'iiij yd tuow odvr iioai^q tan oil(1<THE LAIRD DE GARSCADDEft.moq ont Isifj—pinsuigbid giiiv/oltotGars'cadden, and anotlier countrysquire, happened One day, after akeen ddy’s spoft, to visit rather un¬expectedly the residence of dWater-of-l5ndriek husbandman. Thesportsmen were very cordially receiv¬ed by the family, and among otherapologies the landlord regretted thatdinner was over, as he had justfinished some excellent chickens.Mak nae apologies, George,” saidGarscad, “ I weel believe what yousay, for I see the feathers (alludingto the marks of some pease brose)still on your breast.420SOUND FOR SMELL.A poor man went into a cook’sshop, in Paris, and remained for aconsiderable time, inhaling the smellof the meat. When about to depart,the cook, being disappointed of themoney, seized him and demandedpayment; the other refused, and itwas at last agreed that the mattershould be submitted to the decisionof the first person who went by ; thischanced to be an idiot, who gave thefollowing judgment;—that the poorman should put his money betwixttwo empty plates and so jingle it atthe cook’s ear, by which the manhaving fed on the smell of the meat,the cook would be paid with thesound of the man’s money.'d;,. jniowc bi\«j .ylhiint d: {vIMPORTANT PROMOTION.A old woman who had a sonin a regiment of Fencibles, thenserving in Ireland, received a letterfrom the young man informingher that he had been promoted, andb21now held the rank of corporal. Theold woman was much pleased withher son’s good fortune, and salliedforth to communicate the good newsto her friends. She called on aneighbour woman and told her thatJ amie had been made an Admiral.‘‘An admiral!” said Janet, “ I thoughtyour son was in the army, an Admiralsails on the sea.” “ At weel,” saidthe mother, “ I’m no vera sure o’ thename but it’s either an admimf agenera/ or a corpora/ j it’s some o’the rals at ony rate.”-dot:: ;Xlb bufc f do 'iW V—A BEAR WITHOUT A BRIDLE.Among the early settlers of Wor¬cester county, in Massachussetts, wasa German of the name of Fourpeck,or Foupeck. The wild tenants ofthe forest had not yet given place toman, and Fourpeck. being employedon a certain time with some otners inthe manufacturing of maple sugar,saw a large bear coming among taemand without courting the cost, threwhtmself on the bear’s back. Bruin22unaccustomed to this mode of saluta¬tion, began to make off as fast as hisload would permit—perhaps think¬ing, like the man in the play, if thatwas the way his new acqhtiintance“backed” his friend, “ the detil takesuch backing!” but he could nothtgip turning round now and thento bite the leg of bis daring rider.Nevertheless1, the hardy Germankept his seat, in spite of the smartand streams of blood which weretrickling do^ul 'his legs, till one ofthe company came Up, knocked theweary bear on the head, and dispatch¬ed him. The German was justlyproud of his exploits j but when theexeitenieht which had Carried himthrough the perilous adventure wasover, he exclaimed, “dur tyfil!” I’llnever again ride a pear Without apridle.boyolqfflo gdioo .jioeqiuo aunuj .u*u.MUSIC I N C H U R C H,but not c'hurch dtrSic.niofit gnome gnifnoo xGed ! i-Donald More, a dashing youngdroverj from somewhere beiaorth theBraes o’Doune, had purchased atCarlisle, where he had been withcattle frpm last Tryst, a MusicalSnuff-box, and on his return home,being determined to make a display,he carried the same to church nextSunday. The snuff was prime, but,unfortunately, when handing a pinchto a cronie, and just as the piinisterhad begun to draw his inference, offwent the box to the not inappropriatetune of—“ We’re a’ noddin?’ Don-aid applied himself to the stop catch,which he mistook and away wentthe music to the profane tune ofMaggy Lauder.” In the perturba¬tion of the monent, Donald tried tosmother the box within his sporran,but at last took fairly to his heels,and on passing the round, droppedit, when the Precentor, enraged atthis assumption of his department,with one stamp of his foot silencedfor ever this orchestra in miniature.“ Tamerst,” said Donald, in a largemouthful of Gaelic, “ she had mairtunes than Tougal, the man that pitsout the Psalms, an’ tat was nae mairior twa.”24THE BELLMANtThe Bellman of Kirriemuir read awritten Advertisement in the midstof the multitude on a Fair day, asfollows : “ Notish, all persons dri¬ving their cattle through the lands ofLogie, to or from the market, will beprosecuted with the utmost rigour oflaw.” And immediately added, byway of sedative to the natives, “ Yeneedna mind a’ this, lads, its only ahaver o’ the grievc’s.”• 'tuaw yuT/fi hoc jfooieifli od rLid.v/lo, anut susioitj adt oi nraani jjft•r" *■ *0 od.: ul .vjbsin t vg' ah,QI huiU hliJuoCI .Jnaaom udllo aoitni fidasrfofo -iill •mva'jo;-yjnd £ ui ,b.rrmoG hma "^.narrjshliairr hfirf ,oila L lo fnldfnuii’• tiij tsrlj io;nr adt tl4Jgnol ex ' , r. tileu aan ft is?) or, ,axn c ! iiu