THELaird of Cool’sGHOST!BEINGi Copy of jeveral Conferences and Meetings thatpast betwixt the Rev. Mr. Ogilvie, late. Minister ofthe Gospel at Innerwick in East Lothian, and theGhost of Mr. Maxwell, late Laird of Cool.X» it was found in Mr. Ogilvie’s closet after his Death,very foon after these Conferences.[WRITTEN BY HIS OWN HAND.JGLASGOW:PtfELISHED BY J. LuMSDEN <§■ SON.( i )COPY of CONFERENCES, &c.UPON the third of February, 1722, atfeven o’clock at night, after that I hadparted with Thurfton, and coming up theburial-road, one came up riding after me tUpon hearing the noife of the horfe’s feet,I took it to be Thurflon j but looking backand-feeing the horfe of grey colour, I called,Who’s there? The anfwer was, The Lairdof Cool, be not afraid. Looking to him withthe little light the moon afforded, I took him;to be Collector Caftlelaw, who had a mind taput a trick upon me, and immediately I ftruckwith all my force with my cane, thinking Iwould leave a mark upon him that wouldmake him rememb«r his prefumption; but,altho* fenfible I aimed as well as ever I didin my life, yet my cane finding no refiftance,but flying out of my hand to the diflance otfixty feet, and obferving it by its white head,1 difmounted and took it up, but had fomedifficulty in mounting again, partly by reafonof a certain fort of trembling through mywhole joints, fomething alfo of anger had itsfhare in the confufion ; for tho’ he laughfiwhen my ftaff flew out of my hand, comingup with him again, (who halted all the timeI was feeking my ftaff,) 1 afked him oncemore who he was ? He anfwered, The Lairdof Cool. 1 enquired, Firft, If he was theLaird of Cool. Secondly, What brought himhither? And, Thirdly, What was ms bufi-( 3 )nefs with me ? he anfwered, The’reafon that[ want you is, that I know you are difpofedto do for me what none of your brethren inNithfdale will fo much as attempt, tho’ itferve never fo good a purpofe. I told him,t would never refufe to do any thing to ferveJi good purpofe, if 1 thought l was obliged todo it as my duty. He anfwered, Since I hadundertaken what few in Nithfdale would, forae had tried feveral perfons on that fubject,who were mere obliged to him than I waso any perfon living. Upon this 1 drew my)ridle-reins, and talked in furprife, afldngvhat I had undertaken ? He anfvvered, Thatm Sabbath laft, I heard you condemnedMr. Paton, and the other Minifters of Dum-ines, for diffuadfrng Mr. Menzies from keep-rng his appointment with me * ; and if youuad been in their place, you would have per-ihaded the lad to do as I deiired, and that youwould have gone with him yourfelf, if he hadjneen afraid ; and if you had been in Mr. Pa-ion's place, you would have delivered mylommiffions yourfelf, fince they tended to dowveral perfons juftice. I afked him. Pray,llool, who informed you that l talked at thatpte ? To which he anfwered, You muft knowjihat we are acquainted with many things thathe living know nothing about; thefe thingsou did fay, and much more to that purpoie,ind deliver my commiflions to my lovingife. Upon this 1 faid, JTis a pity, Cool,* See note at the bottom of page 5th.( 4 )that you who know fo many things, (houid notknow the. difference between an abfolute andconditional promife; I did indeed, at thetime you mention, blame Mr. Paton, far Ithought him juflly blameable, in hinderingthe lad to meet with you, and if I had beenin his place, 1 would have acted quite thereverfe ; but 1 did never fay, that if youwould come to Innerwick and employ me,that I would go all the way to Dumfries onfuch an errand, that is what never fo muchas entered into my thoughts. He anfwered,what were your thoughts, I don’t pretendto know, but I can depend on my informationthat thefe were your words ; but I fee youare in feme diforder, I will wait upon youwhen you have more prefence of mind.By this time we were at James Dickfon’sinclofure below the church-yard; and whenI was recollecting in my mind if ever 1 hadfpoken thefe words he alledged, he broke offfrom me, through the church-yard, withgreater violence, than ever any man on horfe-back was capable of, with fuch a finging andbuzzing noife, as put me in greater difbrderthan I was in ail the time 1 was wdth him..I went to my houfe, and my wife obferved!more than ordinary palenefs in my counte¬nance, and would aliedge that fbmethindailed me. I called for a dram, and told hedI was a little uneafy. After I found myfelfla little refrefhed, I went to my clofet tcmeditate upon the moft aflonilhing adventure<rvf mv( 5 )Upon the fifth of March, 1722, being atI Hare-head, baptizing the fhepherd’s child,\ I came off at fun-fetting, or a little after,ii and near William White’s inarch, the Lairdof Cool came up with me as formerly ; and«after his firft falutation, bade me not be afraid.II told him, I was not in the leaft afraid, inthe name of GOD, and Chrift my daviour,; that he would do me the leaft harm ; for I1 knew that he in whom I trufted, was ftrengerthan all they put together } and if any of themIhould attempt to do, even to the horfe thatI ride upon, as you have done to Doctor Men-zie’s man, if it be true that is faid, andigenerally believed about Dumfries, I haveilfree accefs to complain to my Lord andMatter, to the lafh of whofe refentment youiiare liable now as beforeCoo!. You need not multiply words uponthat head, for you are as fafe with me, anddafer, if fafer can be, than when I was alive.| Ogil. Well then, Cool, let me have aiipeaceable and eafy conveffation with you for* What I know concerning the matter in this ; Thejifervant of Dr. Menzie, Phyfician at Dumfries, told hisjiimafter and many others, that the Laird of Cool, very latelyiadead, appeared to him, rode him down, and killed hisnhorfe.—That he appointed him to meet him fome timekfter at fuch a place; which he promifed-to do: but!Mr. Paton (then Minifter at Dumfries) advifed him toIhreak that promife. Mr. Ogilvie, (then Minifter of In-merwick, near Dunbar) on hearing this, blamed Mr. P.imuch, faying, had be been there, he would not only have:advifed him to keep his promife, but would have gonewith him JAMES HAMILTON.2 « fcvO MH/T 1 IQ G( 6 )the time we ride together, and give me fome:information about the affairs of the otherworld, for no man inclines to lofe his timein converting with the dead, without hearing,;or learning fomething that’s ufeful.Cool. Well, Sir, 1 will fatisfy you as far?'as 1 think it proper and convenient. Let me j-know what information you want to know. |OgiU May 1 them alk you, if you be ina Hate of happinefs or not ? ICod. There are a great many things I car ianfwer, that .the living are quite ignorant ofjthere are a great many things that, notwith- it{landing the additional knowledge 1 havef>acquired fince my death, that I cannot an¬fwer ; and there are a great many queftionsand things that you may ftart, of which the lilaft is one, that I will not anfwer.Ogil. Then I know how to manage our con-verfation ; for whatever i fhall enquire of youI fee you can eafily ihift me ; fo that I mightprofit more by converfing with myfelf.Cool. You may try.Ogil. Well, then, what fort of a body isj.that you appear in ; and what fort of a horfe*is that you ride upon, which appears to 1Cool. You may depend upon it, it is nthe fame body that I was witnefs to yountmarriage in, nor in which 1 died, for that isiin the grave rotting; but is fuch a body that;;ferves me in a moment, for I can fly as fleetwith it as my foul can do without it; fo thatalio 1 can 20 to Dumfries -jnctfo full of metal ?I ( 7 )I betore you can ride twice the length of your1 horfe, nay, if I have a mind to go to London,I or Jerufaiem, or to the moon, if you pleafe,II can perform all thefe journies equally foon,!for it cofts me nothing but a thought or wifh ;;'jfor this body is as fleet as your thought, forin the moment of time you can turn your[ thoughts on Rome, I can go there in perfon :liand as for mv horfe, he is much like myfelf,ofor he is Andrew J-ahnAon, my tenant, who,fijdied forty-eight hours before me,i Ogil So it feems when Andrew Johnftoninclines to ride, you mull ferve him in theequality of an horfe, as he does you now,|| Coo/. You are miftaken.■ ; Ogi/. I thought that all diftinctions be*rtween miftrefles and maids, lairds and ten-l mts, had been done a Way at death.| Cool. True it is, but you do not take upsihe matter.) Ogil. This is one of the queftions youIronT anfwer.) Cool. You are miftaken, for that queftioni|| can anfwer and after you may underhand ittOgil. Well then, Cool, have you never yetpeared before God, nor received any fen-nee from him as a Judge.Cool. Never yet.Ogil 1 know you was a a fcholar. Cool, ands generally believed that there is a privatedgement, behdes the general at the greatfy: the former immediately after death-son this he interrupted me, arguing.3C 8 )Cool No fuch thing, no iuch thing! Notrial, no trial till the great day ! he heavenwhich good men enjoy after death, confittsonly in the (erenity of their minds, and the |fatisfactinn of a good confcience; and the I*certain hopes they have of eternal joy whenthat day lhali come Ihe puniffmient, orhell of the wicked immediately after death,confifts in the dreadful flings of an awake: edljconfcience, and the terrors of facing the greatiJudge ! and the fen Able apprehen lions off:eternal torments enfuing! And rhi> bears ftiilia due proportion to the evils they did when|;living So indeed the (late < f fon:e good folk?)differ but little in happinefs from what theenjoyed in the world, lave nly that they arejfree from the body, and the fins and forr<>wtthat attended it On the other hand, thenare fome who may be faid rather not to hav«fcbeen good, than that they are wicked ■, while,living, their ftate is not ealiiv diftinguifhec!from that of the former: And under tha' rclafs comes a great heed of fouls ; a vafls,number of ignorant people, who have no^much minded the affairs of eternity, butthe (kme time have lived in much indolenccpignorance and innocence.Ogil l always thought that their rejectinlthe terms of falvation offered, were fufficienl?ground for God, to punilh them with h:|eternal difplealure; and as to their ignoianaithat could never excufe them, fince theEve in a place of the world, where the tn( 9 )| knowledge of thefe things might have beenI eafily attained.Cod. 1 hey never properly rejected the> terms of falvation ; they never, ilrictly fpeak-fing, rejected Chrift; poor fouls, they had asigreat a liking both to him and heaven, as{their grofs imaginations were capable of:iimpartial reafon mull; make many allowail-: ces', as the ftanidity of their parents, want oflijeducation, diftance from people of good fenfe■ and knowledge, and the uninterrupted ap-; plication they were obliged to give to theirtfecular affairs for their daily bread, the im¬pious treachery of their paftors, who per-fu a .'led them that if they were ot fuch a partytail was well; ttnd many other confiderations,I which God. who is pure and perfect reafontlelf, will not overlook : < hefe are not ii>touch under the load of divine difpleafure,Mis they are out of hi? grace and favour; and• *you know it is one thing to be tiiCcouraged,iilld qu te another thing to be perfccuted withi|U the power and rage of an incenfed earthlyiking. I allure you men’s faces are not moretrariMU> and different in the world, than theirnircumftances are after death.! Og/7 L am loth to believe all that you/rave laid at this time, Cool, (but I will notjjiifpute thoie matters with you) becaule fomenhings you have advanced feem to contradictohc .scriptures, which 1 fliall always look uponi* s the infallible truth of God. For i find,i the parable of Dives and Lazarus, that■ (,IO )the,one Was immediately after death carriedtip by the angels to Abraham’s bofom, and |the other immediately thruft down to hell. jCool. Excufe me, Sir, that does not con- 1frradict one word that j have faid, but you jlfeem not to underftand the parable, whofe !only end is to illuftrate the truth, that a man .may be very happy and flouriOiing in thisworld, and moft wretched and miferable in |the next; and that a man may be iniferab’e Iin this v.’orid, and tisore happy and glorious lin th.e next,OgU. Be it fo, Cool, I fliall yield thatpoint to you and pafs to another, which has•afforded me much fpeculation fince our la ft ,encounter; and that is, How y^-u came to .know that 1 talked after the manner that ifud concerning Mr. Baton, on the firft Sab- !bath of February laft: Was you prefent Iwith me, but invifrble ? He anfwered very ;haughtily, Ino, Sir, 1 was not prefent myfelf. ;\ anfwered, I would not have you angry,Cool; I propofcd this queftion for my own Iiatisfaction, but if you don't think proper to ■anfwer, let it pals. After he had paufed, >wiulr his eyes on the ground, for three or ffour minutes of time at moft, with fbme >hafte and feeming chearfuinefs, faws,Cooly Well, Sir, I will fafcisfy you in that .point: You muft know that there are fentfrom heaven, angels to guard and comfort.|and to do other fpecial good fervices to jigood people, and even the fpirits of good iC >< )men departed are employed in that errand.Ogil. And do you not think that everyman has a good angel ?Cool. No, but a great many particular men: have : there are but few houfes of diftinction!i efpeciaily, but what have at leafl one attend¬ing them ; and from what you have alreadyi heard of fpirits, it is no diflicult matter toi underhand how they may be ferviceable to‘.I each particular member, though at differentill places at a great diflance. Many are the; | good offices which the good angels do toI f them that fear God, though many times theyWare not fenfible of itj and I know affurediy,li that one powerful angel, or even an activef;|clever foul departed, may be fufficient for.ifome villages; but for your great cities, fuchaii as London, Edinburgh, or the like, there isPone great angd, that has the luperintend-i;ance of the whole: and there are inferiorill angels, or fouls departed, to whofe particulark care fuch a man, of fuch a particular weight7,5 or bufinefs, is committed. Now, Sir, the king->'dom of Satan does ape the kingdom of Chriftyas much in matters of politics, as can be,ivwell knowing that the court of wifdom is> tfrom above j fo that from thence are fentjfout miffionaries of the fame order: But:;toetaufe the kingdom of Satan is much betternreplenifhed than the other, inllead of one',.idevil, there are in many inftances two orJthree commiffioned to attend a particularfamily of influence and diflinction.( )Ogil. I read that there are ten thoufandtimes ten thoufand of angels that wait uponGod, and fing his- praile, and do his wiH,and I cannot underhand how the good angelscan be inferior in number to the evilCool. Hid not 1 fay, that whatever thenumber be, the fpirits departed are employedin the fame bufinefs ; fo that as to the numberof original deities, whereof Satan is chief,J cannot determine, but you need not doubtbut there are more fouls departed in thatplace, which in a loofe fenfe you call hell, byilmoft an infinity than what are gone to thatplace, which in a like fenfe you call heaven,which likewife are employed in the famepurpcfe: and I can aflure you by the bye,that there in as great a difference betweenangels, both good and bad, as there is amongmen, with reipect to their fenfe, knowledge,cunning, clsvernefs. and action ; nay, whichis more, the departed fouls on both (ides out¬do feverals, from their very firft departure,of the original angels. This you will per¬haps think a paradox, but it is true.Ogii. 1 do not doubt it, but what is thatto my queftion, about w hich 1 am (biicitous ?Cool i ake a little patience. Sir; from whatI have faid, you might have undefftood me,if you had your thoughts about you : But Ilhall exnhin myfeif to you. Both the goodand the bad angels have ftated times of ren¬dezvous and the principal angels, who havethe charge either of towns, cities, or king-( *3 )doms, not to mention particular perfons, vil¬lages, and families, and all that is tranfacted| in thefe feveral parts of the country, arethere made open ; and at their re-encounteri on each fide, every thing is told, as in yourparifli, in milns, kilns, and fmithies, only| with this difference, that many things faife; are talked at the living re-encounters, buti nothing but what is exact truth, is faid ori told among the dead; only 1 muft obferveI to you, that, as I am credibly informed,feveral of the inferior bad angels, and foulsof wicked men departed, have told manythings that they have done, and then whena more intelligent fpirit is fent out upont] enquiry, and the report of the former feemingdoubtful, he brings in a contrary report, andmakes it appear truth, the former fares veryill: neverthelefs their regard to truth pre->’ii vents it; for while they obferve the truth,they do their bufinefs and keep their fiat ion,for God is truth,Ogit. So much truth being among thei;;'good angels, 1 am apt to think that lies andfalfehood will be as much in vogue amongthe bad.Cool. A grofs miftake. and ir is not alinethe miftake which the living tolks fall under,with refpect to the other world ; fi r the cafeplainly is this, an ill man will not ftick ati any falfehood to promote his defign ; io aslittle will an evil foul departed ftand at anything that can make himielf fuccefsfui j butin admitting report he muft tell the truth,or woe be to him. But befides their monthly,quarterly, or yearly meetings, or whateverthey be, departed fouls acquainted, maytake a trip to fee one another yearly, weekly,daily, or oftener if they pieafe. Thus then jI anfwer your queftion that you was fo much !concerned about; for my information wasfrom no lefs than three perfons, via, Andrew *Aikman, who attends I hurllcn’s family jJames Corbat, who waits upon Mr. Baton ;for at that time he was then looking after 1Mrs. Sarah Baton, who was at your houfe;and an original eniiifary appointed to wait l. upon yours.At this I was much furprized, and aftera little thinking, I afked him, And is therereally, Cool, an eu iffary from hell, in what- ;ever fenfe you take it, that attends my family ? tCod. You may depend upon it.OgU. And what do you think is his bufinefs? iCool. To divert jou from your duty, and Icaufe you to do as many ill things as you can ;for much depends on having the minifter ontheir fide.Upon this I was Hruck with a fort of terror, .which I cannot account for, nor exprefs!— i1In the mean time he faid feveral things 1 didnot underhand. But after a little, I comingto my former prefence of mind, faid,Ogil But, Cool, tell me in earneft ifthere be indeed a devil, th^t attends myfamily, though inyifible to us all.( M )Cool. Jufl as fure as you are breathing, butbe not fo much dejected upon this informa¬tion, for I tell you like wife, that there is agood angel who attends you, who is flrongerthan the other.Ogil. Are you fure of that, Cool ?Cool. Yes, there is one riding on yourright hand, who might as well have b^encli'ewhere, for 1 meant you no harm.Ogil. And how long has he been v.-th me ?Cool. Only iince we palled Brand’s-leebut now he is gone.Ogil. We are jull upon Efenfclugh, andI delire to part with you, tho* perhaps 1 hav-egained more by converfation than I couldhave done otherwife in a twelvemonth ; Ichufe rather to fee you another time, wheni you’re at leifure ; and l wifh it were at asgreat a dillance from Innerwick as you can.Cool. Be it fo, Sir ; but I hope you will! be fo obliging to me, next re-encouner, asII have been to you this.Ogil, I promife you I will, as far as is;confxtlent with my duty to my Lord andI Maher Chrill Jefus: And fmce you have;obliged me fo much by information, I willjacfwer ail the queftions you propofe, as faras confills with my knowledge ; but 1 believeyou want no information from meCool I came not here to be inftructed byyou, but 1 want your help of another kind.Upon the 5th of April 1722, as l was re-'timing from Old Hamftocks, Cool came up( i6 )with me on horfeback, at the foot of theruinous inclofure, before we come to Dod:I told him his laft converfation had provedfb acceptable to me; that I was well pleafedto fee him again ; and that there was a va^number of things that I wanted to informmyfelf further ot, if he would be fo good asto fatisfy me.Coo/. Laft time we met, I refufed you no¬thing you afked ; and now 1 expect that oufhali refufe me nothing tha1- 1 ftiall alk..0^/7. Nothing, Sir, that is in my power,or that I can do with fafety to my *-eputatiwnand character. What then ire y< ur e-mands ?ivCoo/ AH that 1 defire of yru is, that as youpromifed that on a Sabbati. lay you would goto my wife, who now p flefles all my eflfrcts,and tell her the following articulars ; andtell her in my name to recbfv hefe matters.Firft, that l was owing j iftly to ProvoftCr fby, 5<d. Scots, and three years’intereft jbut hearing of his death, my good br.'iher,•whe laird of C—1, and I, forged a difcharge,narrated the b>;nd, the (uni and other par¬ticulars with this honourable claufe. *• Andat the time it had fallen by, and could notbe foundWith an obligation- on theProvoft’s part, to deliver up the bond as formas he could hit upon it. And rhis djlchargewas dated three months before rhe Prov ft'sdeath. And when his (on and luceeffir,Andrew Crofby, wrote to me concerniiig tnis( *7 )i Bond. T came to him and (howed him the! forced difcharge, which filenced him that11 got up my bi nd without more ado. And1 when I heard of Robert Kennedy’s death,i! with the fame help ot (' 1, I got a Billj upon him for 190I, of which I got full and1 complete payment, C 1 got the hatf —When l was at Dumfries the fan e day that31 Thomas Grier died, to v/hom I was owingt; an account of 36I. C 1, n y gondbrother,o was then at ondon, and not being able of: myfelf, being but a bad writer to make buta difcharge of the account, w’hich f wantedexceedingly, I met accidentally with oneRobert Boyd, a poor writer lad in Dumfries:1 took him to Mrs Garnock’s and gave hima bottle of wine, and told him that l had paidThomas Grier's account, but had neglectedto get a difcharge; and if he would help meto one I would reward him. He flew awayfrom me in a great paflion, faying, he wouldrather be hanged ; but if I had a mind forthefe things I had better wait till C 1can e home. I his gave me great tr uole,fearing what C—1 and I had done formerlywas no fecret. I followed Boyd to the ftreetand made an apology faying. I was jelling,commending him for his honeily, and got hispromile never to repeat what had paffed. Ifent for my comm B—m H—*rie, your goodbrother, who with no difficulty, for a guineaand a half undert< ok and performed all thatI wanted, and for a guinea more made me up( <8 )a difcharge for 200I. Scots that I was owingto your father-in-law, and his own friendMr. Muirhead, which difcharge 1 gave toJohn Ewart, when he defired the money;and he, at my defire, produced it to you,which you fuftained.A great many of the like in fiances weretold, of which i cannot remember the per-fons’ names and things; but, fays he, whatvexes me more than all thefe, is the injufticeI did to Homer Maxwell, tenant to my LordNithfdale, for whom I was factor. I bor¬rowed 2000 merks from him, 500 of which heborrowed from another hand : I gave himmy bond, and, for reafons I contrived, Iobliged him to fecrecy: He died within theyear, and left nine children, and his wifehad died before himfelf. I came to feal uphis paper’s for my Lord’s fecurityj his eldeftdaughter intreated me to look thro’ them all,and to give her an account what was theirflock, and what was their debt I verywillingly undertook it, and in going throughthe papers I put my own bond in my pocket.His circumftances proving bad, his ninechildring are now ftarving. Thefe things Idefire you to reprefent to my wife ; and takeher brother with you, and let them be im¬mediately rectified, for fhe has a fufficientfund to do it upon; and if it were done, Ithink I would be eafy and happy ; thereforeI hope you will make no delay.After a fhort paufe, I anfwered, ’Tis a:?( i9 ) *>i| good errand. Cool, you are fending me tai do juftice to the opprelfed and injured ; butill notvrithftanding that I fee myfelt come ini jfor 200I. Scots, yet I begged a little time toi:|confider the matter And fince I find younare as much mafter of reafon now as ever,[; and more than ever, I will reafon upon thematter in its general view, and then withslrefpect to the expediency of my being theMmefifenger ; and this I will do with all mannert of franknefs. From what you have faid,jjl fee clearly what your prefent condition is,fffo that I need not aik any, more queflionsIiupon that head; and you need not bid me‘take courage and not be afraid of you, forI at this moment I am no more afraid of you{i than a new-born childCool. Well, fay on.iOgit. Tell me then, fince fuch is yourlability that you can fly a thoufand miles in:the twinkling of an eye, if your defire to dothe oppreffed juftice, be as great as you pre-t:;tend, what's the reafon you don’t fly to thecoffers of feme rich Jew or Banker where areIthoufands of gold and filver, invifibly lift andinvifibly return it to the coffers of the injured?And fince your wife has fufticient fund, andmore, why cannot you empty her purfe, in¬vifibly, to make thefe people amends ?Cool Becaufe I cannot.Ogil. If thefe things be rectified, you would8be eafy and happy; I don’t at all credit that,for whatever juftice may be done to the peo-• ( *o )pie, yet the guilt of the bafe action alwaysrerr-ains upon you.C'.oi N< w you think you have filencedme and gained a noble victory; but I willflu-w you your miftake immediately; forcannot touch any gold or money, by reafonot iht fe fpirits that are ftated guardians o~jullii.e and honefty.Ogit. What is that you tell me. Cool ? Donot unworthy fellows break houfes, every|>night, and yet you, that can put yourfelinto fo many hundred different ihapes in amoment, cannot do it: What is that youtell me. Cool ?CW *ris true. Sir, againft the living,men may find out fome probable means offecuring themfelves; but if fpirits departedwere allowed, then no man would be fecure;for, in that cafe, every man that I had aprejudice at, would foon be beggared.Ogtl. Might you not go to the mines ofMexico and Peru, where thofe little fumswould not be miffed ?Cool. No, Sir, for the fame reafon.Ogil. But, Cool, there is fo much treafureloft in the fea, you may eafily dive into thebottom of it, fearch that, and refund thofepeople their Ioffes, where no man is in¬jured.Cool. You are a little too forward thisnight. Sir, and inclined much to banter:What I’ve faid might fatisfy you, but fiuceit does not, I’ll tell you further, that n*fpi( 2* )rits, good nor bad, had the power to takeany money or gold; the good never do,jtho’ the bad, if once in an age, it is nomall quarrel: for if it were allowed them,Ithen they would be very fuccefsful in theirbufinefs, and never fail in gaining theirpoints.Ogil What hinders them. Cool?CooL Superior power, that governs andguards all.Ogil, You have fatisfied me entirely uponthat head. But pray. Cool, what is the rea-fon that you cannot go to your wife yourfelf,and tell her what you have a mind ; 1 fhouldJthink this a more fure way to gain yourpoint.Cod. Becaufe I will not.That is not an anfwer to me. Cool.Ogil,Cool. That is one of the queftions that Itold you long agoi would not anfwer ; butlif you go as 1 defire, I promife to give you[full fatisfaction after you have done yourllb'ufinefs. Trull me for once, and believe meI will not difappoint you.Upon the loth of April, 1722, comingfrom Old Cambus, upon the pofl road, I metwith Cool upon the head of the heath, calledthe Pees. He alked me, if I had confideredthe matter he had recommended ? I told him1 had, and was in the fame opinion I was in'when we parted^ that I would not pefiiblyundertake his commiflions, unlefs he could;give me them in writings under his hand.( 22 )I told him that the lift of his grievances werefo great, that I could not poffibly rememberthem without being put in writing; and thatI wanted nothing but reafon to determine mein that and all other affairs of my life.—I know, faid he, that is a mere evafion ; but ‘tell me if the Laird of Thurfton will do it ? 1I am fure, faid I, he will not; And if heIhould, I would do all that I could to hinderhim; for I think he has as little concernin thefe matters as myfelf. But tell me,Co©l, is it not as eafy to write your ftory ‘as tell it, or ride on what-do-ye-call him?for I have forgot your horfe’s name ?Cod. No, Sir, it is not; and perhaps Imay convince you of the reafonablenefs of itafterwards.Ogil. I would be glad to hear a reafonthat is folid, for not fpeaking to your wifeyourfelf. But, however, any rational crea¬ture may fee what a fool I would make ofmyfelf, if I would go to Dumfries, and tellyour wife that you had appeared to me, andtold fo many forgeries and villanies that youhad committed, and that Ihe behoved to makereparation : The confequence might perhapsbe, that ftie would fcold me; for £he wouldbe loth to part with any money ihe pofleffes,and therefore tell me 1 was mad, or pofliblypurfue me for a calumny: How would Ivindicate myfelf? How could I prove thatever you fpoke wdth me ; Mr. Baton, andother minifters in Dumfries, would tell me.!( 23 )ic devil had fpoken with me; and whymould I repeat thefe things for truth, which2 that was a liar from the beginning, had>ld me : C—p—1 and B—r H—rie would; upon me, and purfue me before the Com-liffary; and every body would look upon mebrain-fick or mad: Therefore I intreat youi o not inllft upon fending me fo a ridiculous an•rand. The reafonablenefs of my demandsl> leave to your own confideration, as youid your former to mine. But dropping the! utter till our next interview, gave me leave) enter upon fome more diverting fubject;I: ad I do not know. Cool, but the informa-ion you have given, may do as much fcrvice|i mankind, as the redrefs of all thefe griev-:inces would amount to.T[[Mr. Ogilvie died very foon after.]FINIS.in the Arminian Magazine for 1785 (in addition t®phat is mentioned in the bottom of p. 5.) Dr. Hamiltonyiys, “ The enfuing relation of what followed,” (viz.\.n account of the Conferences,) “ wrote in Mr. O.'swn hand, was found in his delk, after his death, by•irs. Ogilvie ; (he gave it to Mr. L. now minifter ati^ldhamltocks, who gave it to roe.”( *4 )AWonderful Story,From a BOOK, Intitled,Visits from the World of Spirits.Clergyman, who lived in the Machufetts, and had entertained an opiniocifor more than fifty years, that fuch ftoricwere only the vapours ®f diftempered an|weak brains, was convinced at laft in tbfollowing manner : Being in his own garder;he faw his ovrn likenefs or apparition j dreflejuft as he then was, pafs by him, and looshim full in the face. He ran into the houjiip a great furprife, told his family what rhad feen, that he was convinced of his form*i,error, and that he feared he fhould live b«,a few days. His words proved true, for jdied in a fhort time after.FINIS