CELEBRATED HISTORYOF THE RENOWNED110IIIW HOd©,THE MERRY OUTLAWOF SHERWOOD FOREST.TO WHICH IS ADDED,THE PHOFESSOR OF SIGNS.: )m> mm)HISTORY OFROBIN HOOD*In the time of Richard I. king’ of England,|pe famous Robin Hood was born at a vil-fere many large forests fdled with deer,lis father was a ranger of the forest, andI e had a rich old uncle, Squire Gamewell,|J brother of his mother’s, who lived aboutjiventy miles distant. When Robin hadSlached his thirteenth year, it was deter¬mined that he should pay his uncle a visit| Christmas; and accordingly, after put-lag’ on a new suit of clothes, he set oil’ on|»rseback, with his mother behind him.In reaching Gamewell Hall, they met||th a hearty welcome from the Squire, whod a great company at his house, and the! y was spent in great merriment. It wasre that Robin got intimate with LittleI )hii, for whom his uncle had sent lor toi vert them with his droll tricks; out thernpany was astonished, when Robin gotNottinghamshire, and near which4up and played all the tricks after him, ancin a better style. The Squire was so de*lighted with his nephew, that he prornisecito make him his heir, if he would remain aGamewell Hall. Robin consented to stayprovided he got little John to attend himifor a great intimacy had taken place betweethem.Robin Hood, to a very handsome personadded a courageous and enterprising spiritbiiand a disposition noble and generous;his uncle’s indulgence obscured his bettfqualities. Except an occasional visit to bparents, Robin lived always at GameweHall, where he passed his time agreeahaway in wrestling, quarter-staff, archerand other athletic diversions, in all of whithe excelled; and was attended by LittJohn, who was a ready assistant in evemischievous prank.Robin had gone to pay his father a vis;when the Squire being suddenly taken iiia messenger was despatched to hasten hhome; but the dangerous state of his motheiPe,health prevented him from leaving hera late hour on the following’ day. Inmeantime, the Squire finding himself dyisent for a monk in order that he mi,make his peace with Heaven, and whovailed on the dying man to sign a d'ikconveying all he had to the church, as5| pnly means of saving- his soul. WhenI {Robin arrived at the Hall, his uncle was; dead, and the monks, who had taken posses-| sion of the house, shut the doors against him,i and would give him nothing-, which was| a sad reverse to poor Robin, for he had been: brought up as a gentleman without learningany business, and was unable to gain aivelihood. On turning from the Hall, hefound Little John waiting for him, and,determined to unite their fortunes, they re¬solved to go to Sherwood Forest, and supportthemselves by their bows.Although the Forest abounded with deer,Robin found that other comforts were neces-Eary, which could not be procured withoutmoney ; and thinking that the monks whopad deprived him of his estate ought to sup-|ply this, he laid every priest under contri¬bution.The fame of Robin Hood, and the merryitlife he led, soon drew a number of younglen to join his band, and increased it toipbove one hundred of the bravest fellows inhe kingdom, whom he clothed in green.When the monks, from being so often pinn¬ed, came less in the way, Robin’s menivere obliged to extend their depredations tother parts of the country. It was only topriests, and the niggardly rich, that RobinHood was an enemy; for he held the person6and property of every woman sacred, and) lalways took the part of the weak and injur¬ed. By the poor people he was adored, forhe generously supplied their wants from hisown private purseRobin Hood, wholovedagoodjokeaswellas good booty, meeting one day a jolly-looking butcher on horseback, who was going toNottingham fair, with panniers on each side,made a bargain tor the mare and panniers,,and an exchange of clothea. The butcherhaving put on the fine green uniform, Robin:dressed and mounted as a butcher, and rodestraight to Nottingham market, where hehired a stall, and began to dispose of his;meat, giving more for one penny than thebutchers could do for five, so that they soldinothing. The butchers supposing' him tobe some senseless spendthrift, and that agood bargain might be got oft’ him, askedlhim to dine with them. Robin consented,and after dinner insisted on paying the bill;which was no sooner observed by the Sheriff,,a cunning old miser, who was master bothiof the market and tavern, than he determinedto take advantage of it, and said to him,,!11 Good fellow, hast thou any horned beastto sell?” u Yes, good Master Sheriff,” replied Robin, 4 4 if you will please to go ancsee them.”The Sheriff immediately ordered out hishorse, and putting1 three hundred pounds ingold into a bag, rode oft' with Robin on theroad that leads through Sherwood Forest.On entering the Forest the Sheriff exclaim¬ed, “ God preserve us from the man calledRobin Hood!” and they had not proceededfar when a number of fat deer were seenskipping about. u How do you like myhorned beasts, Master Sherift ?” said Robin;u these are the cattle I told you of.” u Totell you the truth,” replied he, u I don’tmuch like your company, and wish I weresafely in Nottingham again.” Robin blewthree blasts with his buglehorn, and LittleJohn, with a number of the merry men,immediately appeared. “Here, comrades,”said he, u I have brought the Sherift’ ofNottingham to dine with you to-day, andI hope he will pay for his dinner.” The(Sheriff was forced, much against his inclina-__ ion, to go and dine with them. After thetntertaimnent, Robin eased him of the threeundred pounds he had in the bag to pay forjjpiis intended purchase, and then placing himn his horse, he led him out of the forest,land desired to be kindly remembered to hiswife.One morning as Robin was strolling in3|the Forest, he saw a genteel-looking youngtfman sitting under a tree, who appeared tobe very melancholy and dejected. Hedesired one of his bowmen to bring the youngman to him; and when he came, Robin in¬quired the cause of his sadness. The youngman taking a ring from his pocket, said,‘(I was to have been married yesterday toa young lady whom I have long courted,and I bought this ring for the occasion.but the Bishop of Hereford, her uncle, hasrejected me, and means to give her to an oldwealthy knight.” Robin inquired whetherthe young lady had consented to her uncle’schoice or not, and when and where the cere¬mony was to take place. Alan-a-dale (forthat was the name of the young man) toldhim that the lady was forced to complymuch against her inclinations, and that themarriage was to take place that day in theparish chapel, about five miles from theforest. When Robin heard the Bishop’sname, who was his great enemy, and thetime and place, he told Alan-a-dale to puton a cheerful look, and he would ensure himof getting his mistress. “ If you incline tojoin our bowmen,” said Robin, “ bring your>bride to the forest, and let her live with us;but if you do not like our merry life, 3 011are at liberty to carry her wherever youplease. ” Alan-a-dale agreed to join the bow¬men, as with them he felt himself sure of pro¬tection; and then, seeing there was no timeto lose, Robin disguised himself as a harper,9> and ordered twenty-four of his bowmen andI (Allan-a-dale to follow him ; but proceeded toi the church alone, where he found the Bishopi putting’ on his robes, who asked him what< jhe wanted, Robin told him he was a harper,i come to offer his services at the wedding.[ On the old knight and the bride makingi their appearance, Robin stept forward amiIsaid, u I cannot allow this marriage to goton, for the bride must have her own choice.”|—Then pulling out his horn, he gave three[blasts, and the bowmen entered the church.Iu Young lady,” said Robin, uas you aremow free, see if there is any one here you|1 would choose for your husband.” She noitsooner saw Allan-a-dale, then she sprang toihim, and said £< here is my choice.” Robin'Irequested the Bishop to proceed; but as hei refused, he pulled off his robes, and put themion Littlejohn, who took the book, and wentr| through the ceremony very gracefully,I Robin giving away the bride. The Bishopand the old knight slunk out of the church,j and the rest of the party went off to celebratethe wedding at Sherwood Forest.The Bishop of Hereford was so enragedj at the trick played him, that he made several[excursions to Sherwood Forest with a partyi of soldiers, on purpose to take Robin prisoner.SOne day, as Robin was walking alone in thei Forest, he heard the trampling of horses1Ubehind him, and looking about, saw theBishop with six of his followers in pursuit ofhim. As they were only at a short distancebehind him, Robin had no time to lose, there¬fore he ran forward till he reached the cot¬tage of a poor old woman, into which herushed and begg'ed her to save his life. Shimmedietely exchanged clothes with himand as the Bishop came in with his men,Robin passed by them and got clear orbW hen he came in sight of his band, one of thebowmen, who observed him coming, cried out■ ^ A witch, a witch ! ” and was about to let fly ;an arrow at him, when Robin discovered thimself. He then told Little John to killa fat deer, as the Bishop of Hereford was todine with them, and taking his bowmenalong with him, went to a particular spot towait for his guest.When the Bishop entered the cottage, heseized the old woman, who was in Robin’sclothes and said, u I know you are one of IIRobin Hood’s gang, therefore take me towhere he is, and your life shall be saved.”The old woman, who had got her directionsfrom Robin, agreed to take him; and beingsoon mounted, they rode on to an opening inthe Forest, where Robin’s bowmen were afdrawn up, when the Bishop asked, “ who are!these?” (C I think it is Robin Hood, whom]you want, and his merry men,” replied she;114 • hut I cannot be certain, for I am only a poorold woman, who changed clothes with him.”The Bishop, after bestowing a hearty male¬diction on the old woman, was turning toride off; but Robin brought him down iromhis horse, and forced him to go and partakeof their good cheer. After dinner he madethe Bishop dance a hornpipe, to the no smalldiversion of the bowmen ; and having easedhim of live bundl ed pounds, as payment ofhis reckoning, they led him and his fol¬lowers to the high road, where the bowmengave three cheers, and then returned to theForest.One fine summer day, when the merrybowmen were enjoying their sports, andtrying each other’s prowess, Robin, elatedwith his own superiority, said, u My friends,do you know any man that can match meat wrestling, playing the quarter-statf, orkilling a deer?” Will Scarlet, who boreRobin a kind of grudge, replied, 1 haveheard of a friar in b ountain Abbey, whowill draw a bow, wrestle, or handle a quar¬ter-staff’ with any man alive.” u Say youso,” said Robin, u I shall soon have prooiof that; u and taking his-bow and quarter-staff with him, went to the neighbourhoodof the Abbey, where he saw a tall brawnyfriar walking by the river side, and in¬stantly knew him to be the man lie wanted.12Robin tied his horse to a tree, and comingup to the friar, said, u Carry me over thisriver, thou brawny friar, or I will crack thycrown.” The friar returned no answer, butimmediately took Robin upon his back, andcarried him to the other side without speak¬ing a single word. Robin leapt off thefriar’s back, and pretended to be going away;but the friar stopped him, saying, u Carryme back again, thou fine fellow, or it shallbreed thee pain.” Robin took the friar onhis back ; and having carried him across theAvater, he then insisted on the monk takinghim over again, or he would break his bones.The friar took Robin on his back; but oncoming to the middle of the water, hethrew him in, saying, u Now my fine fellow,take your choice, whether thou will sink orswim,” Robin, however, got tolandassoonas the friar; and challenged him to wrestle,shoot, and to a bout at quarter-stall; but atnone of these could he beat the friar, nor thefriar him. Robin was so well pleased withthe friar, that he wanted him to join themerry men ; but the friar would not consent,and even tried to persuade Robin to turnmonk; so they shook hands, and partedgood friends.One day, as Robin was in search of ad¬ventures near the skirts of the Forest, hemet a' priest well mounted, with a fat buck13across his saddle, and disguised in a coun-| tryman’s frock. Being in want of a horse,he resolved to rob the parson, and layingI hold to the briddle, ordered him to dismount;d but the priest struck a furious blow at Robin1 with the hut-end of his whip, which hereceived on his staff, and soon brought thepriest to the ground.After robbing the parson of his moneyand horse, and requesting to be rememberedi in his prayers, Robin rode off for for Strat¬ford. On the road he fell in with a richcountry dealer going to purchase goods atLancaster, with whom he soon got acquaintedand they travelled together; but the mer¬chant was so close, that Robin, could make« nothing of him. On reaching Coventry,| where they dined together, and drank some| good wine and ale, Robin told his fellow-i| traveller, that as the roads they had to travelwere so dangerous, the safest way was toconceal their money in their boots, and onseeing Robin deposit a bag of gold, themerchant did the same. They again con¬tinued their journey until they came to a part1 of the road which crossed two ways, where5 Robin pulled off the merchant’s boots, invi which he got three hundred pieces of gold,I and rode oft’ for Sherwood Forest.At one time when the finances of thes merry men were very low, they resolved to14plunder the rich convent of bt. Mary, andto carry oil’ the image of the Holy Virgin, | :which was of solid silver. Under the dis- 1guise of a poor blind minstrel and his mother, }Robin Hood and Little John gained admit¬tance to the convent; and, when the nuns ■and friars had returned to their cells, opened fthe gates to their companions. The alarm isoon spread through the convent, and every 1one tlew to the chapel for protection; but ithe bowmen having already entered the place,were proceeding to spoil it of what was mostvaluable, and to take down the silver image,when one of the nuns cried out, u Oh,mercy will they take away the gift of ourqueen, even while she is within our walls ?” fOn hearing this, Robin said, u My bravecomrades, desist, and let not disloyalty be ’ <ranked among our errors; this house and all j iwithin it are rendered sacred by the presence t.of Queen Eleanor!” The bowmen instantlyobeyed their leader, and as they quitted the iconvent, Robin told the nuns to bless thequeen for preserving their image, whichotherwise would have bought wine to theSherwood venison.When the queen heard of the behaviour otRobin Hood, and that his respect for her alonehad saved the convent from being plun¬dered, she was so much pleased, that shedetermined to be a friend to him and his men.15Soon after King Richard’s return fromPalestine, he proclaimed a grand shootingmatch to take place in the palace grounds, andprizes were to be awarded to the best marks¬men. Queen Eleanor, thinking this afavourable opportunity to execute her designin favour of Robin Hood, told the king,that she could bring one hundred men whowould beat the most skilful of his archers.The king requested her to bring forwardher champions, and if they were victorious,he would not only bestow on them the prizes,but grant her any boon she asked. Thequeen immediately despatched the following-message to Robin Hood : - u Queen Eleanorgreets you well, requesting that you willtake one hundred of your bowmen with you,and hasten to London; for a great matchat the bow is to take place there, and she haschosen you and your men to be her cham¬pions.”On the appointed day, in presence of thewhole court, the king’s archers,- who werethought to be the best in the kingdom rangedthemselves on one side; while the queen’schampions, all clad in green, with RobinHood at their head, took their station on theother; but the queen was the only personthere who knew them. After sounding thetrumpets, King Richard announced the prizeswhich were to be bestowed on the best marks-H>meiij and the courtiers began to offer bets jof six to one in favour of the king’s men ; .but no one would bet against them. <£ Willno knight venture his money on my side ?” 1said the queen. u Come, Sir Robert Lee,you must try your fortune;” but the knightbegged to be excused, as there was no chanceof success. The queen then asked the Bishopof Hereford, Robin Hood’s old foe; but heswore by his silver mitre that he would notbet one penny. a If you won’t bet on the iqueen’s side, how much will you venture on ;the king’s ?” said Robin. a All the gold Ihave with me, which is five hundred pounds,”replied the bishop^ and he laid the money onthe ground. Robin immediately produced ^a bag of the same value, and threw it downupon the green.Before the bowmen began, Queen Eleanor j |craved this boon from the king—that he :should not be angry with any of her archers, 1but that they should be free to stay at courtduring the match, and afterwards to haveforty days to retire to where they pleased.King Richard agreed to this; and then or¬dered the targets to be placed. The king’s iarchers lodged about forty arrows in the ;target; but Robin’s bowmen, to the aston- jishment of all the court, placed all their :arrows in the mark.The captain of the king’s archers, chab17lenged Robin to shoot three arrows with him;br one hundred pounds; to which Robin! jigreed, on condition that he would shoot one: it the mark he produced. A fresh targe'vas set up, and the captain amidst thunderjp applause fixed his three arrows in themark,md one of them in the very center of thearget; but Robin, with seeming careless-less, let fly his first arrow, which split thecentre one to shivers, and stuck in its place.Robin then caused two willow wands to bestuck in the ground at double distance, ob¬serving’, that this was the kind of markhewasccustomed to, and challenged all the king’srchers to a trial; but as none of them durstenture after what they had seen, Robin,ilwith the remaining two arrows, clove boththe wands. The king’s bowmen whisperedijto each other, that he must be the devil, forthere never was such archery seen before;but the Bishop of Hereford said to the king,u 1 know now who they are; that is RobinI Hood, and these fellows are his band.” Theliking would not have allowed them to depart;Lut as his word had been already given fortheir security, he made a noble feast, be-| stowed on them the prizes, and sent themI away with honour.King Richard often thought of the won¬derful dexterity shown by Robin Hoodand his band, and having heard of manv of18their generous actions, he regretted that they ■■were outlaws, who by plundering those whonthe was bound to protect, were therefore ene4mies to the state. Sometimes he wouldexclaim, u If I could make these outlawsfaithful subjects, what a pride they would ha •to my court!”One day queen Eleanor entered, and craved}the boon he had promised to grant if he| :champions were victorious, “ My dear Rich¬ard,” said she, u the boon I ask is the free1pardon of Robin Hood and his men, who*will, I am certain, prove themselves worthyof your clemency, and be a valuable acquisi¬tion to your crown.” u My dear mother,”said he, u I can refuse you nothing; but,before I grant your request, I must seeRobin Hood again, in order to discover whathis sentiments are; for which purpose Imean to disguise myself immediately, andigo to Sherwood Forest.”As the queen approved of this, Richard,accompanied by twelve of his courtiers, alldisguised as monks, mounted their horses,and proceeded to the Forest. Robin Hood,who observed them at a distance, thought itwas a whole monastery of friars, and he de- jjtermined to plunder them. King Richard, uwho was taller than the rest, rode foremost, Jand Robin taking him for the abbot, seized |bis horse by the bridle, saying’, <£ Abbot,™19stand, and deliver your money; it was amonk that ruined me, and I have sworn tospare none of your fraternity.” u But weare going on the king’s message,” saidRichard. When Robin heard this, he letgo tlie bridle, saying, 4 4 God save him ! andconfound all his enemies !” u Thou art curs¬ing thyself,” said the king; u for thou arta robber, an outlaw, and a traitor.” Wereyou not his messenger,” returned Robin, UIwould say you lied; for 1 never injured thehonest and industrious man; I protectwomen and children and all the poor aroundme; it is only from the miserly rich, andthose who live upon the labours of others,that I take any thing; hut as you are KingRichard’s servants, i will not deprive you ofa single penny, and also excuse what youhave said.” Robin asked them to partakeof his good cheer before they proceeded ontheir journey. This being exactly the thingthat the king’ wished for in order to soundRobin, he gave a ready consent, and thensaid, “was‘you not afraid singly to attackthirteen men?” “I am not afraid of tenthirteens,” returned Robin; then putting hishorn to his mouth, he blew a shrill blast,and one hundred and fifty of his bowmeninstantly appeared in view. The king'wasso charmed with the sight, and the mannerin which they obeyed their captain, that lie20could not help thinking they were muchbetter trained than his own men.After dinner, the pretended monks againmounted their horses, and were preparingto take their leave of the bowmen, when theking said to Robin Hood, u Now, my bravefellow, if I were to procure your pardon andthat of your men, woulcl you turn faithfidand useful subjects ?” This being the firstwish of Robin’s heart, and for some timepast always uppermost in his thoughts, hereplied, u Abbot, I am tired of this kind oflife; and though some may praise our boldadventures and generous actions, yet I nowhate every thing connected with it. WereKing Richard, who is a gallant soldier anda generous prince, to pardon our offences,and take us into favour, he would neverhave reason to repent his clemency, for hewould find us the most loyal and peaceful ofhis subjects.”u Behold your king!” said Richard open¬ing a part of the monk’s cloak, which dis¬covered the star and other insignia. Robinand his bowmen were instantly on theirknees before him. u Rise up my bravefellows, your leader is now Earl of Hunt¬ingdon, which is his just right, from beingnext heir to the late earl. I restore youagain to society, by freely pardoning all yourpast offences; and I expect from your future21| good behaviour, and the services which youare able to render me by your skill andbravery, if you are inclined, never to havecause to repent of my kindness.”Robin Hood, now Earl of Huntingdon,and his bowmen, immediately swore alle¬giance to the king; and by their good con-1 duct afterwards, Richard was induced toj place them near his own person as a bodyguard.THEPROFESSOR OF SIGNS.King James the Sixth on removing toLondon, was waited upon by the SpanishAmbassador, a man of erudition, but whohad a crotchet in his head, that every countryshould have a professor of signs, to teachhim, and the like of him, to understand oneanother. The ambassador was lamentingone day, before the king, this great desidera¬tum throughout all Europe, when the king,who was a queerish sort of a man, says tohim—u Why, I have a professor of signsin the northermost college in my dominions,viz. at Aberdeen ; but it is a great way oft',perhaps 600 miles,”—u Were it 10,000leagues off I shall see him,” savs the am-22bassador, 1 { and am determined to set out intwo or three days.” The king- saw he hadcommitted himself, and writes, or causes tohe written, to the university of Aberdeen,stating the case, and desiring the prolessorsto put him off, or make the best of him theycould. The ambassador arrives, is receivedwith great solemnity; but soon began toenquire which of them had the honour to beprofessor of signs ? and being told that theprofessor was absent in the Highlands, andwould not return nobody could say when;says the ambassador, u I will wait his return,though it were twelve months.” Seeing thatthis would not do, and that^hey had to en¬tertain him at a great expence all the while,they contrived a stratagem: There was oneGeordy, a butcher, blind of an eye, a drollfellow, with much wit and roguery abouthim. He is got, told the story, and instruct¬ed to be professor of signs ; but not to speakon pain of death. Geordy undertakes it—The ambassador is now told that the pro¬fessor of signs would be at home next day,at which he rejoiced greatly. Geordy isgowned, wigged, and placed in a chair olstate, in a room of the college, all the profes¬sors and the ambassador being in an adjoin¬ing room. The ambassador is now shown into Geordy’s room, and lefttxj converse with himas well as he could, the whole of the professors!Vaiting• the issue with tear and trembling.Hie ambassador holds up one of his fingers to! jeordy; Geordy holds up two of his. The!|imbassador holds up three; Geordy clinches' ;iis first and looks stern. The ambassador then1 akes an orange from his pocket, and holds iti]|p; Geordy takes a piece of barley cake from1 lis pocket, and holds that up. After which,he ambassador bows to him, and retires tohe other professors, who anxiously enquiredIn’s opinion of their brother. u He is a per¬fect miracle,” says the ambassador, u I wouldpot give him for the wealth of the Indies !”—r \Vell,” says the professors, “to descend toparticulars.”—“ Why,” said the ambassador,Ip I first held up one finger, denoting thatIthere is one God; he held up two, .signi¬fy ing that there are the Father and Son ;I held up three, meaning the Father, Son,land Holy Ghost; he clinched his fist tosay that these three are one. I then tookout an orange, signifying the goodness ofl God, who gives his creatures not only thenecessaries, but the luxuries of life; uponwhich the wonderful man presented a pieceof bread, showing that it was the staff otlife, and preferable to every luxury.” TheI professors were glad that matters hadI turned out so well; so having got quit ofthe ambassador, they next got Geordy, tobAar his version of the signs. “Well,24Geordy, how have you come on, and whaido you think of yon man?”—u The rascal Isays Geordy, u what did he do first thinkye ? he held up one finger, as much as tcsay, you have only one eye; then I held uUtwo, meaning that my one eye was perhapsas good as both his. Then the fellow hen)up three of his fingers, to say there were butthree eyes between us; and then I was w ;mad at the scoundrel, that I steeked mrneive, and was going to come a whack pithe side of his head, and wad ha’e done’j;too, but for your sakes. Then the rascaldid not'stop with his provocation here, butforsooth, takes out an orange, as much as toisay, your poor beggarly cold country cannotproduce that! 1 shewed him a whang of abear bannock, meaning’ that I didna care afarthing for him, nor his trash neither, aslang’s I ha’e this ! But by a’ that’s guid, j(concluded Geordy,) I’m angry yet, that 1'didna thrash the hide o’ the scoundrel!”—Somuch for the signs, or two ways of tellinga story.