Corn Rigs are Bonny,Dearest Maid, I adore thee,THE LITTLE COTTAGE,Gin a body meet a body,RULE BRITANNIJ,AN©PARTING MOMENTS.MUN-TED for, and sold wholesaleJ. FR'ASeR, FRINTER, STIRLIW#.1817.CORN RIG? ARE BONNYIt uras upon a Lammas nightWhen corn rigs are bonny,Beneath the moon‘s unclouded light,I held awa to Annie:The. time flew by wi‘ tentless heed.Till ’tween the fete atid early,Wi’ sma persuasion she agreed.To see me through the barley.CHORUS.Corn rigs and barley rigs.And corn rigs are bonny;I'll ne’er forget that happy night,Amang the rigs wi’ Annie.The sky was blue the wind was still.The moon was shining clearly,I set her down wi’ right guid will,Amang the rigs o’ barley;I kent her heart was a’ my ain;I lov’d her most sincerely;I kiss'd her owre and owre again. Amang the rigs o’barley.I lock’d her in my fond embrace,3'Her heart was beating rarely;My blessings on that happy place,Atnang the rigs ©* barley.But by the moon a»d stars sae bright.That shape that hour sae dearly,Sh* ay shall bless that happy nig^t,Anvang the rigs o' barley.I hfr’e been blvthe u i’ cotnrndes dear,I h:i*e been merry drinkin,1 ha‘e been joyful gath’rua gear,1 ha’e been happy thinkingBut a’ the pleasures e’er 5 saw,Iho’ three tunes doubled fairly,That happy night was worth them a’,Aniang.the rigs o‘ barley.DEAREST MAID I ADORE THEE.By the pure light of Icve that now beams fromthine eye, [sigh-Ty magic that breathes in the balm of thyBy the numberlefs spells which lie hid in thysmile;By the bend ef thy brows irresistible wil£;I swear, dearest maid, I atlcre thee;I swear, dearest maid, 1 adore thee;I swear, deafest maid,Dearest maid) dearest maid, I adore thee.Lovely maid, lovely maid, I adore thee,Lovely maid, I adore the>.By those dark raven locks which so gracsfullyflow, [snow;In affectionate wreaths o'er thy forehead ofBy the loves and the lures, in those dimples thatplay, [tions display,And by all the bright charms which thy perfec-1 swear, dearest maid, &c.When old Time shall have stol'n that sweetbloom from thy face, [grace;And bereav’d thy fair form of its beauty andStill sincere to its vow this fond heart shall thoufind;Still revering thy worth and admiring thy mind;I swear, dearest maid, &c.THE LITTLE COTTAGE.My mam is no more, and my dad’s in his grave,Little orphans are sister and I. sadly poor;Industry our wealth, and no dwelling we have,But yon neat little cottage, that stands in themoor.The lark’s early sorg does to labour invite,Contented, we just keep the wolf from thedoor:And Phcebus retiring, trips home with delight,To our neat little cottage that stands in themoor.Our meals are but homely, mirth sweetens thecheer.Affection’s our inmate, the guest we adore;And hearts ease and health make a palace appear.Of our neat little cottage that stands in themoor.GIN A BODY MEET A BODY.Gin a body meet a body,Cornin’ through the rye,Gin a body kiss a body,Need a body cry.Ilka body has a body,Ne’er a ane ha‘e 1;But a’ the lads they lo’e me weel,And what the waur am 1.Gin a body meet a body,Cornin' frae the town,G'm a bcdy kiss a body,Need a body gloom. \Ilfeabodv &c.6Gin a bodf meet a body,Comm’ fme the fair,Gin a body kiss a b»dy,Need a body stare.Ilka bfldy &c.Gin a body meet a body,Comio( frac the well.Gin a body kiss a body,Need a body tell.hka Jenny ha? her Jockey,Ne’er a ane ha’e I,But a’ the tads they lo'e me wee),A nd what the waur am I.RULE BRITANNIA.When Britain first at Heaven's command,Arose from out the azure main,Arose from out the azure main,This was the charter, the charter of our landAnd guardian angels sung this strainjRule. Britannia ! Britannia, ride th* waves,For tritons never shall be slaves.The nations net so Ness'd as thee,Must in their turn to tyrants fall;Whitt thou shall flourish, shait flourish greatand free,7The t'Vi v- ' •! ail.R if Hn a!i’. ix.c.yhee haughty .yants »; hr shall tame,All their attempts to bend thee downWill but arouse, arouse thy gen’rons flame,And work their woe la thy renown.Rule Britannia, &c.The muses still with freedom found.Shall to thy happy coast repair;Blest isle! with beauty, with matchless beautycrown'd,And manly hearts to guard the fair.Rule Britannia, &c.the wife's farewell.While I hang on your bosom distracted toioseyou, (flow,High swells my sad heart and fast my tearsYet think not of coldness they fall to accuse youDid l ever upbraid you, oh1 no my loveno.1 own it would please me at home could youtarry,Nor e’er feel a wish from Maria logo,But if it gives pleasure to you my dear Harry,Shall I blame your departure ? oh no mylove no, [love no.Shall i blame your departure ? oh no my/8Now do not de?] Hal, while abroad you ar<str-yin^,Tha t boart wiikh is mine or. a rival bestow;Nay banish that frown, such displeasure be¬traying,Do you think I suspect you? oh no my love noI believe you too kind for one moment to grieve fme,Or plant in a heart which adores yousuch woe; [me hYet should you dishonour my truth and deceiv.pShould I e’er cease to love you / oh n«my love no.FINIS.