OF THEWISE MEN OF GOTHAM.To which is added,A Collection of JESTS.Of merry Books this is the chiefIt is a purging pill.To carry off all heavy griefAnd make you laugh your fill.•>|f+4> ♦|*GLASGOW,PRINTED IN T H E YEA R,m d c c x c.•(THE*MERRY TALESOF THEWISE MEN of GOTHAM.TALE I.THERE were two men of Gotham, and one ofthem was going to Nottingham market to buyllieep, and both met together on Nottingham bridge.Well met, faid one to the other; whither are you go¬ing, faid he that came from Nottingham? Marry, faidhe that was going thither, I am going to the marketto buy llieep. Buy fheep! faid the other, which waywill you bring them home ? Marry, faid the other, Iwill bring them over this bridge. By Robin Hood, faidhe that came from Nottingham, but thou fhalt not.By my maid Margery, faid the other, but I will. Youfliall not, faid the one; I will, faid the other. Thenthey beat their (laves one again!! the other, and thenagain!! the ground, as if a hundred fheep had beenbetwixt them. Hold then there, faid the one. Beware of my fheep leaping over the bridge, faid the o-ther. I care nor, faid ,the one. They fhSdi all comethis way, laid the other. But they ihall hot, faid theone. Then faid the other, if thou make much ado Iwill put my finger in thy mouth. A turd thou wilt,faid the other. And as they were in contention, an¬other wife man that belonged to Gotham, came fromthe market with a fack of meal on his horfe; and fee¬ing his neighbours at firife about flieep and none be¬twixt them, faid he. Ah! fools, will you never learn—ivit! men neip ms, {.'anrinum w ny rmy imj-—on my i]ioulder. They did fo, and he went to the fideof the bridge, and fhoole our the meal into the river,faying, How much meal is there in my fiick, neigh¬bours ? Marry, faid one, none. By my faith, repliedthis wife man, even fo much wit is there in your twoheads to ftrive for that you have not.—-Now, whichwas the wifeft of thefe three ? I leave yon to judge.TALE II.THERE was a man of Gotham that rode to themarket with two bufhels of wheat, and be-caufe his horfe flaould not be damaged by carryingtoo great a burden, he was determined, to carry thecorn himfelf upon his own neck, and fill kept rid- iing upon his horfe ’till he arrived at the end of hisjourney. Now I will leave you to judge which wasthe wifefl, his horfe or himfelf.TALE III.a time the men of Gotham fain would have .pinn’d in the cuckow, that fhe might fing all the ,year; and in the midft of the town they had a hedge,■made round in compafs, and got a cuckow and put ■her into it, and faid, Sing here, and you lhall lack ,J neither meat nor drink all the year. The cuckqw, when ,| {he perceived heifclf encompalfed within the hedge,,i' flew away. A vengeance on her, faid thefe wife men, -we did not make our hedge high enough. f!TALE -IV.T' HERE was a man of Gotham who went toNottingham market to fpil cheefe ; and going l1down the hill to Nottingham bridge, one of hi? cheefesrfell out of his wallet, and ran down tire hill. Wborc-fIon, faid the fellow, what, can you run to tlje marketj-r-v, .inwwwi^we^jnuuiei. iwn ujimghis wallet down, taking out the cheefes he tumbledthem down the hill, one after another. Some ran in¬to one bufti, and feme, into another. However, hecharged them to meet him in the market-place. Theman went to the market to meet with the cheefes, andflay’d till the market was almoft over; then went andinquired at his neighbours, if they faw his cheefescome to the market? Why, who fhould bring them,faid one ? Marry, themfelves, faid the fellow, theyknew the way very well. A vengeance on them, theyran fo fall, I was afraid they would run beyond themarket; I am perfuaded they are by this timealmollas far as York. So he immediately rode to York, butwas very much dtfappointed. And to add to it, henever found nor heard of one of his cheefes.TALE V. •A Man of Gotham bought at Nottingham market,a trevet, or barn-iron; and going home with ir,his fhoulders grew weary with the carriage. He fet itdown, and feeing it had three feet, faid, Whorefon,thou haft tltree feet and I but two, thou {halt bearme home, if thou wilt ; fo fet himfelf down uponit, and faid to it, bear me as long as I have donethee, for if thou doft nor, thou ftialt (land ftift forme. The man of Gotham feeing that his trevet wouldnot move, (land ftill, faid he, in the Mayor’s name,and follow me if thou wilt, and I can flrow yop theright way. When he went home, his wife alked himwhere the trevet was ? He faid, it had three legs andhe had but two, and he had taught him the readyway to his houfe; therefore he might come himfelf ifhe would. Where did you leave the trevet, faid thewoman? At Gotham bridge, faid he. So fhe imme¬diately ran and fetched the trevet herfelf, or otherwife “fiie muft certainly have loft it, on account of her buf.band’s want of wit.TALE VI.A Certain fmith of Gotham had a large wafp’s neftin the ftraw at the end of his forge; and therecoming one of his neighbours to have his hpri'e fhod,and the wafps being exceeding bufy, the man was ftung| by one of them.-The man being grievoufly affronted,faid, Are you worthy to keep a forge or not, to have ,men ftung with thefe wafps ? O! neighbour, faid thefmith, be content, and I fliall put them from their neftj prefently. Immediately he took a coulter, and heatedit red hot, and tbruft it into the ftraw at the end ofhis forge, and fet it on fire, and burnt it up. ThenI faid the fmith, I told thee I’d fire them out of theirI cefts.#; ( >TABLE VII.I fON Good-Friday the men of Gotham, confultedtogether what to do with their white herrings,fprats, and fait fifh, and agreed, that all fuch fiflrfhouid be caft into the pond or pool, in the midft of .the town, that the number of them might increafej| againft the next year. Therefore every one, that had:i any fifh left, did caft them immediately into the pond,j Then faid one, I have gotten left fo many red herr- i1 ings. Well faid another, and I have left fo manyt whitings. Another immediately cried out, I have as!yet gotten fo many fprats left. And, faid the laft,I have gotten fo many fait fifties, let them go toge¬ther in the great pond without any diftin£Vion, and fwe may be fure to fare like lords the next year. At!the beginning of the next Lent they immediately wentabout drawing the pond, imagining they fhould havedie fifh j but were much furprized to find nothingbut a great eel Ah ! faiJ they, a mifchief on thiseel, for he hath eaten up our fifa. What mult wedo with him ? laid one to the other ; kill him, faitlone, chop him in pieces, faid anoiher. Nay, not To,laid the other, but let us drown him. Be it accord¬ingly fo, replied they all. So they immediately wentto another pond, and call the eel into the water.Lie there, faid thefe wife men, and Ihift for thyfelf,lince you trray not expeft any help from us. So theyleft the eel to be drowned.N a time the men of Gotham had forgotten topay their rents to their landlords. So one faidto the other, To-morrow mult be pay-day, by whomcan we fend our money to our landlord? So one laidto them, I have this day taken a hare, and he maycarry if, for he is very quick-footed; be it fo, repliedthe reft; he fhall have a letter, and a large purfe toput our money in, and we can direft her the ready■way. When the letter was written, and the moneyput1 into a purfe, they immediately tied them aboutthe hate’s neck, faying, You mult firft go to Lough¬borough, and then to Lekefter, and at Newark is ourlandlord ; then commend us unto him, and there ishis due. The hare, as foon as fhe got out of theirhands, ran a quite contrary way. Some faid, thouwiuft firft go to Loughbotough ; others faid, let thehare alone, for fhe can tell a nearer way than the beffof us •, let her go.t\ Man of Gotham that went mowing in the mea-dow, found a large grafshoppet. He immedi-*tely threw down his fcythe, and ran home to hi*neighbours, and fai^ that the devil was there in theTALE VIII.TALE IXWIJ, m U'li arrionglt [he grill!, Jevery man ready, with their clubs and ftaves, halbertsand other weapons, to kill the grafshopper. Whenthey came almoft to the place where the grafshoppei:was, laid one to the other, let every man crofs him-felf from the devil, for we will not meddle with him,fo they returned again, and faid, we were bled thisday thar we w ent no farther. O ye cowards, faid hethat left his fcythe in the meadow, help me to fetchmy fcythe. No, anfwered they, it is good to fleepin a whole fkin. It is much better for tkee to lofethy fcythe, than to marr us all.TALE X.ON a certain time there were twelve men of Go-1tham that went to filh; and fome waded in the'water, and fome Hood on dry land. And in goinghome, one faid to the other, we have ventured won-,def fully in wading, 1 pray God that none of us did;come from home to be drowned. Nay, marry, faidfone to the other, let us fee that, for there did twelveof us come out. Then they told themfelves, and e-very one told eleven. Said the one to the other, thereis one of us drowned. They went back to the brookwhere they had been filhing, and fought up and downfor him that was drowned, making great lamenta;fton. A courtier coming by, aflted what it was theyfought for, and why they were forrowful ? Oh! fatethey, this day we went to fifti in the brook ; twelveof us came out together, and one is drowned. Saltthe courtier, tell how many there be of you. One othem faid eleven; but he did not tell himfelf. Wellfaid the courtier* what will you give me, and I wil1find the twelfth man ? Sir, faid they, all the mone;we have got. Give me the money, faid he; he theilbegan with the fir ft, and gave him a ftroke over thtmutualy-KTin lUll^ faye mo^gmar^faying, here is one, and fo he ferved them ali, andthey groaned at the matter. When he came to thelaft, he paid him well, faying, here is the twelfthman; God’s bleffing on thy heart, faid they, for find¬ing our brother.TALEXLA Man of Gotham riding along the highway, faw■L -* a cheefe, fo drew his fword and picked it withthe point, in order to pick it up. Another man cameby and alighted, and picked it up, and rode awaywith it. The man of Gotham rides back to Notting¬ham to buy a long fword to pick up the cheefe; andreturning to the place where the cheefe did ly, hepulled out his fword pricking the ground, and faid, IfI had had but this fword, I fliould have had the cheefemyfelf, but now another has got it.TALE XII.A Man in Gotham that did not love his wife, anddie having Lir hair, her hufband faid diverstimes he would cut it off, but durft not do it whenihe was awake, fo lie refolved to do it when fire wasafieep; therefore one night he took up a pair of fheersand put them under his pillow ; which his wife per¬ceiving, faid to one of her maids, go to bed to my-hufband, for he intends to cut off my hair to-night,let him cut off thy hair and I will give thee as gooda kirtle as ever thou didft fee. The maid did fo, andfeigned hetfelf afleep, which the man perceiving, curoff the maid’s hair and wrapped It about the fheers,and laid them under the pillow, and went to fieep:The maid arofe, and the ■wife took the hair and fheers,md went to the hall, and there burnt the hair. Ther.sn had a fine horfe that he loved much, and the good-wile went inio !hb!<K cu! cii IMhmU (I!!,wrapped the (heers up in it, and then laid them un¬der the pillow again. Her hufband feeing her comb¬ing her head in the morning, marvelled very much !thereat. The girl feeing her mafter in a deep llndy, ■'faid, What the devil ails the horfe in the liable ? Hebleeds prodigiotifly. The man ran into the liable, andfound the horfe’s tail was cut off; then going to hisbed, he found the fheers wrapped up in his horfe’srail. He then went to his wife, laying, I crave thymercy, for I intended to cut off thy hair, but have1cut off my own horfe’s tail. Yea, faid fhe, felf-do,ii felf-have. Many men think to do a bad turn, but inturnetb oft-times to themfelves.TALE XIII. , |A Man of Gotham laid his wife a wager, that (he1 \ could not make him a cuckold. No! faid fhe,'but I can. Do not fpare me, faid he, but do whatyou can. On a time the had hid all the fpiggots andfaufets, and going into the buttery, fet a barrel sbroach, and cry’d to her fpoufe, Pray bring me a fpiggot and a faufet, or elfe the ale will all run out. Hefought up and down bin could not find one. Comehere then, faid fire, and put thy finger in the tap-holeThen Ihe called a taylor with whom Ihe had made tfbargain- Soon after Ihe came to her hulband, ambrooght a fpiggot and faufet, faying, Pull thy fingeout of the tap hole, good cuckold. Bellirew youheart for your trouble, faid he, Make no fuch bargaiwith me again.TALE* XIV. ,1A Man of Gotham took a young buzzard, and ivited lour or five gentlemen’s fervants to tl1eating of it; but the old wile killed an old goofe, atjne ami -nvu ui net ^Ullipb SUl- Hll1 LiU22!]M, &fadthe old goofe was laid to the fire for the gentleman’sfetvants. So when they came, the goofe was fet be¬fore them. What is this, faid one of them ? The good-man faid, a curious buzzard. A buzzard! faid they,why ’tis an old goofe, and thou arf a knave to mockus, and fo in great anger departed home. The fel¬low was very forry that he had affronted them, andtook a bag and put the buzzard’s feathers in it; buthis wife defired him befoie he went, to fetch a blockof wood, and in the interim fire pulled out the buz¬zard’s feathers, and put in the goofe’s. Then the mantaking the bag went to the gentleman’s fervants, andfaid, Pray be not angry with me, you fhall fee I hada buzzard, for here be the feathers. Then he openedthe bag and took out the goofe’s feathers. Uponwhich one of them took a cudgel, and gave him adozen of flripes, faying, Why, you knave, couldyou not be content to mock us at home? but arecome here to mock us.Man’s wife of Gotham was brought tp bed of amale child, and the father invited the goffips,which were children of eight or ten years of age.The eldeft child’s name w'as Gilbert, the fecond’sname was Humphrey, and the godmother’s name wasChriftibel. Their relations admonished them diversfimes, that they muft all fay after the Parfon. Andjvhen they were all come to the church, the Prieftaid, be you all agreed of the name ? Gilbert, Hum¬phrey, and Chriftibel, faid they all. The Priefl: then \aid, wherefore came you hither ? They immediatelyaid the fame. The Prieft being amazed, could notel! what to fay, but whiflled and faid, Whey, ando did they. The Prieft being angry, faid, Go homeTALE XV.iook, go home, iben Ubm, ffiJSpflfflfWPtibel did the fame. The priefl then provided godfa.thers and godmothers himfdf.Here a man may fee, that children can do nothingwithout good inftru&ions, and that they are not wifewho difregard them.A Young man of Gotham went a wooing to a faimaid ; his mother warned him beforehand, faying, Whenever you look at bery caft a fheep’s eye aher, and fay. How doft thou, my fweet Pigfnie? Thfellow went to a butcher’s and bought feven or eiglfheep’s eyes. And when this lofty wooer was at diiner, he would look upon this fair wench and call iher face a fbeep’s eye, laying, How doft thou do nfweet Pigfnie? How I do 1 do, faid the wench, Swineface, what do you mean by calling a fh^ep’s eyeme ? Oh ! fweet Pigfnie, have at thee with anotbBut I defy thee, Swine’s-face, faid the wench. Wlmy fweet old Pigfnie, be content, for if you livethe next year you will.be a foul fow. Walk knawalk, faid (he, for if you live till the,next year ywill be a fool.TALE XVII.HERE was a man of Gotham, who wouldmarried, and when the day of marriagecome they went to church. The Prieft faid, Dofay after me. The man faid, Do you fay afterThe Prieft faid, Say not after me fuch words, buiwhat I ftiall tell you; thou doft play the fool to nthe holy Scripture concerning matrimony. Therfellow faid, thou doft play the fool to mock the'TALE XVI-ociipiuit concerning matrimony. The Prieft couldnot tell what to fay, but anfwered, What fhall I d©with this fool ? And the man faid, What fhall I dowith this fool ? So the prieft took his leave and wouldnor marry them. But he was infhufted by othershow to do, and was afterwards married. And thusrhe breed of the Gothamites has been perpetuated, e-;en unto this day.TALE XVIII.THERE was a Scotfman who dwelt at Gotham,and I?e took a houfe a little diftance from Lon-on and turned it into an inn; and for his fign heiould have a boar’s head. Accordingly he went to aarver, and faid, can you make me a bare-head? Yes,lid the carver. Then faid he, make me a bare-head,ad thou’fe have 2od. for thy hire. I will do it, faidie carver. So on St. Andrew’s day, before Chrifl-ias, the which is called Yule in Scotland, the Scotime to London for his boar’s head to fet up at his?or I fay to :hee, fpeak, laid the Scotfraan, ball thouade me a bare-head ? Yes, faid the carver. He wentid brought a man’s head of wood that was bare, andd. Sir, here is your bare head. Ay, faid the Scot,e meikle de’il ! is this a bare-head ! Yes, faid therver. I fay, faid the Scotfman, I will have a bare-ad, like a head that follows the fow that has gryces.l, faid the carver, I don’t know a fow and gryces.that, whorefon, know you not a fow that will greetd groan, and cry, a week, a week. What, faid thever, do you mean a pig? Yes, faid the Scotfman,me have her head made in timber, and fet on herIp, and let her ling, whip whire. The carver faidcould not. You whorefon, faid he, gar her as fhe’dt, whip whirc—This Ihews that all men delightheir fancy, T ALE XTX. IN old times, daring thtfe tales, the wives of Go¬tham were got into an aie-houfe, and faid, theywere all profitable to their hulbands. Which way,good goflips, faid the ale wife r The firfl: faid, I ivilltell you all good goffips; I cannot brew nor bake,therefore I am every day alike ; and go to the ale-'houfe becaufe I cannot go to the church; and in theale-houfe I pray to God to fpeed my hulband, and Iam fare my prayers will do him more good than mylabour. Then faid the fecond, I am profitable to myhulband, in faving of candle in winter, for I caufemy hufbsnd and all my people to go to bed by day¬light, and rife by day-light. The third faid, I am pro*fitible in fparing bread, for I drink a gallon of ale, Icare not much for meat. The fourth faid, I am lothto fpend meat and drink at home, fo I go to the ta¬vern at Nottingham and drink .vine, and fuch otherthings as God fends me there. The fifth faid, a manwill ever have more company in another’s houfe thanhis own, and moft commonly in the ale-houfe. The,fixth fsld, my hufband has Hax and wool to fpare, ifI go to other folks houfes to do their work. Thefeventh faid, I fpare both my hulband’s wood andclothes, and fit talking all the day at other folks fire,The eighth faid, beef, mutton and pork are dear, 1therefore take pigs chickens, conies and capons, beincof a lelfer price. The ninth faid, I fpare my hufband’:foap, for inftead of waiting once a-week, I waft buonce a quarter. Then fiid the ale-wife, I keep all m;hufband’s ale that I brew from fowering; for as I wonto drink it almoft up, now I leave never a drop.T A 'l E XX.ON Afh Wednefday, the minifler of Gotham won!have a colle&ioi} from his pariihioners, and fai• i.iv Hieiius tiie imiih iL' wine mat yw; rmuft ufe prayer, falling and aims, but come ye tofhrift, I will tell ye more of my mind. But as forprayer, I don’t think that two men in the parWK cani fay their Prfter-nofler. As for fading, ye fad dill, foryc have not a good meal’s meat in the year. As foralms-deeds, what 'hould they give that have nothing ?In Lent, you mull refrain from drunkennefs, and ab-dain from drink. No, not fo, faid one fellow, for itis an old proverb, that fi(h fhould fwim. Yes, faid thepried, it mud fwim in the water. I crave your mer¬cy, quoth the fellow, I thought it Ihould have fwamin fine ale, for I have been told fo. Soon after themen of Gotham came to fhrift, and being feven, thepried knew not what penance to give. He faid, if Ienjoin you to pray, you cannot fay your Pater-noder.And it is but folly to make you fad, becaufe you ne¬ver eat a meal’s meat. Labour hard and get a dinneron Sunday and I wilf partake of it., Another man he enjoined to fare well on Monday,and another on Tuefday, and one after another, thatone or other fhould fare well once in the week, thatpe might have part of their meat. And as for alms-deeds, the pried faid, ye be but beggars all except one»r two, therefore bedow your alms on yourfelves.A COLLECTION OF JESTS.AN IrUhman afked, whether he or his brotherwere oided ? I am olded, faid he, but if my[Mother live three years longer, we (hatl both be ofjne age.An Irilh fervant being druck by his mader, criedtut, Devil take me if I am certain whether he has2-— juiilu uju hi iiu. j wui ii x uiu liinuuy ia Mill ■uni*great fatisfaflion to hear the old rogue was hanged forkilling me.A deaf fellow coming to London to fell a turkey,at Hyde-park Corner, had occafion to ontrufs a point;a gentleman paffing by, intended to put a joke uponhim; countryman, faid he, There’s a turd under you ;the man thinking he afked the price of his turkey,., faid, four {hillings, mailer. I fay^there’s a turd un-'der you, faid the other. It is as good as ever yoaeat in your life, faid the fellow, either baked or roaft-ed. You rafeal, faid he, I eould find in my heart tokick you foundly. Conte chufe, fays the fellow, forK if you won’t another will.One being at his wife’s funeral, and the bearersgoing pretty quick along, he cried out to them, Don’tgo fo fall, what need vve make a toil of a pleafure.Two Irifhmen, walking together in the fields, wereat length hemmed in by a great ditch, which whenthey perceived, quoth one of them, we ruuft go backagain, for this ditch is too big for us to jump over !Nay, quoth the other, I proteft I’ll jump over, tho-’I light in the middle.A number of French gentlemen, dining at a ta¬vern in Germany, the maid, as (he took out thedifhes, let a roofing fart; and her miftrefs fcoldin?her feverely for doing fuch a thing in hearing of thrguefts. Pfhaw, madam, fays Ihe, you don’t confider that they are all French people, and don’t under(land German.In Admiral Hawke's lad engagement with rhFtench, a Lilor on board one of the fnips had a le{hot off, whereupon one of his meff-mates took hindown to the furgeon, and took his leg off the decand put it under his arm ; he was no fooner broughdowa, bat another of his mefs-mates began {haltin~ ,..a ■.v,.vT .,ul, u 11',1lo!t a leg. That 3s a damn’d lye, you Ton of a fa—h,replied he, for I have got it under my arm.As Dean Swift was eroding over the ferry ati Dublin, turning bimfelf from the paflengers in theflern of the boat, he addreded a poor man near him.Well, friend, what profeflion are ye of ? I am a tay-lor, Sir, anfwered the other, not knowing the Dean.Are you married? faid Swift. Yes, Sir, replied thetaylor. And who wears the breeches ? laid the Dean.My a—fe, anfwered the other.An old woman who had never feen a monkey inher life before, and coming to Bedford market, lawone riding on a dog’s back, and the dog running a-way with him; fays fhe, I am afraid that younggentleman will fall by and by, he rides fo fall. Andwhen Ihe faw he’ did not, die cried out, well ridyoung gentleman, well rid young gentleman, in truthhe’s a good horfe-man.A gentleman one day gave his lervant a kick onrhe breech, upon which the fellow let a roufing f-—r,his mailer was horribly offended, but the fervant faid,Why, Sir, would you knock at a door and have nobody anfwer you.An Irilhman at Cheller, upon enquiring at hisancflord how he could get to London, and beingtold he might go in die waggon, he replied, No, ho-ley, that wdi?t do, I am always fea-fick when l riden a waggon.A Schoolmaller alking one of his boys, in a fharp/inter morning, what was Latin for cold ; the boy<efitated a little—What lirrah, faid he, can’t youell ? Yes, yes, cried the boy, I have it in my finger-;nds-iFINIS.