^ OF SCOTLAND 'n C •' • * ;s'^??tt>ING-SHEETThe SERVICE-BOOK, &cO Rleafons for which the» Book of Common Prayerurged upon Scotland, Anno 1637 } and now prac-tifed in many places in that Kingdom, ought tobe refufed.. tT containeth divers Points andDireftions, which wouldX breed a Change in fome Articles of that Doctrine and)ifcipline ofthe Church of the faid Kingdom, which is both/arranted in Scripture, and'approved by Parliament: And: feemeth to be as well againft State-vvifdom, as againft Re¬gion, to change any Thing either in the Matter or Form ofie faid Do&rine and Difcipline, without firft ihewing bothime Evil or Defeift in the Things to be changed, and whatlood and Benefit it is, that the laid Service-Book w'M affordlore to the Edification of the Church, or true Worfhip ofdmighty God, than the Points ofDo&rine and ZUfcipline,rhich the faid Service-Bool would breed a Change of.II. In the pretended Communion, it hath, all the Subitancend effential-Parts of the Maffe and fo brings in the moft a-ominable Idolatry that ever was in the “World, in worfhip-igofabreaden God, and makes Way to the Antichrift of'.om, to bring this Land under his Bondage again ; as maye feen at large, by the Particulars of that Communion,'herein fome Things, that were put out o(the Service-Book{England, for fmelling fo ftrong of the Maffe, are reftored,nd many other Things, that were never in it, are broughtut of the Maffe-Book, though they labour to cover the Mat-;r. It hath the Commemoration of the Dead; the Table:t Altar-ways : The Oblation ofthe Bread and Wine to Godefore Confecration : It hath the Popifh Confecration, That'ie Lord would lanftify by his Word, and by his holy Spirit,bofe Gifts and Creatures of Bread and Wine, that they may* unto-us, the Body and Blood of his Son, and thenrepeatehe Words of Lijtftiwtion to God, for that Purpafe, It hath an% A Obla*.( 2 )Oblation of It again, after it is confecrate; the Confummaby the Prieft; kneeling before the conl'ecrate Bread and Win |It takes away the eating and drinking by Faith, mentioiin the £nglijh Liturgy. Ithaththe Patine, Chlaice, twoterneflers in Englijh, before the Malle, and fcveral other Fticalars, that would take a long Time to rehearle and cfute.III.Though they would take away the idolatrousMalfeof it,yet it hath a Number of Popifh Superftittons and idetrous Ceremonies; as, twenty nine holyDays, whereof,twetwo are dedicated toSaints.One whereof, is called, Thei,two of them to the Virgin Afary, |jc Anunciation of, our Zady : So |j'is made a Lady toChrifHans,not being on Earth.flie mufti 1Lady in Heaven: Is not this to make her a Goddefle ? It 1:1fourteen Failing-Days, and fome Weeks. It hath alio theTmane-facraments of theCrolfe in Baptifme, laying on ofBifhop’s Hand in Confirmation ; a Ring for the outward!in Marriage; a fanftified Font, Holy-water, HolinefsChurches and Chancels ; private Baptifm, private Comm’,ons. Ceremonies for Burial of the Dead, and Purificai«f Women after Child-birth, the Prieft (landing, kneel:turning to the People, and confequently from them, fpealwith a loud Voice, and confequently fometimes with a 1cVoice. People Handing at Gofpels, at Gloria?atri,3.ndi Cmtheir Anfwering the Minifter, and many fuch like, in Nber above fifty, belxdes any religious Ornament, thatKing, or his Succeffbrs, (hall preferibe, and Ceremonies •Bifhops fhall determine,or (hall be contained in Books ofjnilies, to be fet forth hereafter.IV. And though they would take out of the Book, bothMade, and all thofe fuperftltious Ceremonies ; yet, it lia Number of other materiall Errors : As, leaving un-reacbout a hundred and twenty Chapters of God’s Word,putting this Reproach upon them. That they are lead edmg, and might be beftfpared, and reading fundrie Chapout;of Apocrypha, under the Stile of holy Scripture ofOldTeftament. It hath a Letanie more like Conjuringlike Prayers. It hath fome Places, out of which. Pa;may prove, That Sacraments are abfolutely neceffary tovation ; in appointing Baptifm in Private, with fuch Hthat if Neceflity require, he that baptizes needs notfonas to fay theLord’sPrayer: And out of which, they may piTh«i; Sacraments give Grace by thcixWerke wrought, in(?)ig Children bapti^edjjave all Things nccejjarie to Salvation^td be undoubtedly faved. It hath otherPlaces, out of which,ley may prove, mo Sacraments than t\NO, which they fay,; rery Parilhoner, who is already baptized fliall communicate,i d ihall alfo receave the Sacraments ; and that sacramentswo, are generally neceifary to Salvation, as ii there were o~:ers} eyther not fo genera:!, or not io necelfarie. ft hath o-ter Places, out of which, they may prove univerfall Grace ;•iying, God the Father made me, and all the IVtrld, anded the Sonne redeemed me, and all Mankinde ; One Colled:•etends to begge from God, that which they dare not pre-me to name, and a Number others of this Sort.V- Though likewife they amend all thofe Errors, and that- tere were no materiall Error in it at all; fo they read no-ing at all but Scriptures, yea, and that all their Prayersd Exhortations were nothing but Words of Scripture, yetIch a Liturgie were not lawfull to be made the only Form:God5s Worlhip in Publick : For, though a formed Litur-e may be to ferve for Rule to other Churches, and Monu-ents to Pofterity, what Forms are ufed, or that it may lead1 e Way, or be a Direftion to thofe that are beginning in theitirliftry, yet, it is not by reading of Prayers and Exhorta-ans, that the Lord appoints his Servants of the Minillrie toorlhip him, or edifie his People; but, he has given Gilts toiem, to exhort, pray, and preach, which they ought to (Uriij and ufe ; and though they may in their private Studies,ke Help of other Mens Gifts, yet it is not lawfull for atan to tie himfelf,or be tyed by Others,to a prefcript FormeWords in Prayer and Exhortation, forthefe Rcafons ;'■* Fir/}, Such a prefcript Forme is againll the Glorie oj Godyftinting tohimfucha dayly Meafure of Service, and lbbird ring the many (pirituall Petitions andPraifes,that other-jife would be, if God’s Gifts were ufed.Secondly, It is againft the DignitieofChrifi, in making hisififts needleffe ; for", though he fend downe no Gifts at all,tey can ferve themfelves with the Book, without them.Thirdly,gt quenches the holy Spirit, becaufe he gets noEm:oyment.Fourthly,-It hinierstfis Edification of God’s People', theyay as well ftay at Home, and be edified by reading the|ook themfelves.Fifthly, It is againft the Converfion of thofe that hnow notod; Will ever a Rat-rymc «if Words laid over, with-“•* A - _ «USI( 4 )out feeling or Welling, worke upon air* unrenewed HeartSixthly, It will never lerve to convince an Heriticke. tcheck a prophane Perfin, or to waken a fecure Sul | they rm<long go on, ere furh a Service byte upon them ; yea, it foller*People in a prefumptuous Conceit, that they are well enoug'if they be prefent,. and fay their Part of Service.Seventhly,\t toilers a lafieMiniftrie, and makes <Vay for putting down Preaching ; they need take no Paynes,and thereforneed no Stipend : Yea, they may come from the Ail-houfe, an worfe Place, and Hep to and read their Service, withoueyther Check or Preparation. SEyghtly, It may all be done by a Boy of feven Tears oldand fo every private Man that can read ; yea, a Turk, if he ca.read, maybe fuch a Minider.Ninthly, It cannot exprelfe the Jeverall Needs cfaUPeopto God, or deal with them, according to their feverall Eftatei,that will alter othervvife then any prelcript Forme can be aplyed to.Tenthly, If any one Hinted Liturgie had been good,needfull, no doubt but CHRIST would have fet One dow^forus.VI. Though a perfcript Form of Liturgie were lawfull,yithere is no Warrand for impofing One : For might not ahMiniders'(at lead) make a prefcript Forme, to themfelvewhich would fit them and their People bed P But if it wetlawfull to impofe One, then there is One in this Countrie aready. Ought not that rather be impofed, than any Othefeeing it is already edabliihed by Parliament, now of a lorTime ? But now, if a new One ought to be impofed, thenought to come in by a lawfull Manner ; by a General Adenblie, and Men chofen to make it, that are known to have tlGift of Prayer themfelves, and not the Made-Book, tra(dated into Englijh, urged by Anticbrifiian-Prelats, up*God’s People, without Content of any Generali Alfemblie •Parliament, againd the Will of all Men; and with no fm;Offence and Scandall to the Minds and Confciences of fucias think all Liturgie unlawfull, that is eyther in the Mad]way, or inconfident with the Praftife and Peace of the RjformedChurches of Scotland hitherto; and againd the Heaijfafliich, as know many Things in the Englijb Liturgie at,Canons, which the Pra&ife of, neyther hath WarrandGod’s Word, nor can bring any luch Addition, to the P*fir. Honour or Power of the Ring, that is able to compel J. < 5 ) , .itlieLofle he may make of his good Subje&s AflFe&ionSjby commanding fuch a Change, as the urged Liturgie wouldbring to the Peace of our Church, and the Refpedl due to theActs of Parliament, and longe Curtome, whereby our Church-i idifcipline, Order, and Govefnmerit hath been eftablUhed.Re-printed 1726, from a Copy printed 163S.Aflembly at Glafgew, Dec. 6, 16^8. Seff. 14.) Con derm; 1. • r-.f Service-Book, Book of Canons,'Book of Oruination, and the High-CommiUion.. ' | "'HE Aflembly having diligently confidered the Book£ of Ccmmon-Prayer, lately obtruded upon the Re-brmedK.irk with n this Rea!me,both in Refpeft of theManner>f the Introducing thereof, and in Reipedl of the MatterIvbich it containeth ; Findeth, that it hath been devifed andirought in by the pretended Prelats, without Direftion frombe Kirk, and preffed upon Minifters, without Warrant rromhe Jiirk, to be univerfally rece ived, as the only Form of■rPivitie-fervice, under all higheft Pains, both Civil and Ec-llfleliailical: And the Book it felf, befide the Pepijh Frame andidorms in Divine Worfhip, to containe many Popifb Errors andCeremonies, and the Seeds of manifold and grols Superftiti-m and ldolatrie. The Affembly therefore, all in one Voice,Hath rejected, and condemned, and by thele Frefents, doth re-ifeit and condemnethe Paid Book, n ot only as illegally intro-luced, but all'o, as repugnant to the Doctrine, Difcipline andOrder of this reformed ivirk, to the Confeffion of Faith, Con-!:j:itutions of Generali Alfemblies, and A£ts of Parliament eda->IIiflung the true Religion ; and doth prohibite the Ufe andj|fa£tiie thereof^ and ordaine Presbyteries to proceed withdie Cenfureof the Kir.kagainfl all fuch as ilia'll tranfgrefle.I II. The Aifembly alfo, taking to their Confidefation, theof Canons, and the Manner how it hath been introdu-fcndeth, that it hath been devifed by the pretended Pre-ts, without Warrand ort)ireftion from, the Generali AiTem*ly; and to eflahliih a tyrannicall Power in the Perfons'ofhe pretended Biihops, over the Worihip of God, Mens Con-ciences. Liberties and Goods- and to overthrow the whole,(BPifcipline and Government of the Generali and Synodall Xf-femblies. Presbyteries, and Seflions, formerly eftabliiheci in!>ur Rirk. * ■ * 'There0( 6 )Therefore the AfTembly,. all in one Voice, hath rejected anrCondemned, and by thefePrei’ents, doth reject and cnndemrthe faid Book, as contrare to tne Confeflion ofour Faith, anrepugnant to the eftabliflied Government, the Book of Dicipline, and the A<fts and Conilitutions of our Kirk, pr<hibxts the Ufe and PraAife of the fame ; and ordains Presbteries to proceed with the Cenfure of the Kirk againft all fucas ihall tranfgreife.III. The AiTembly having confidered the Book of Confecrtion and Ordinaticn, findeth it to have been framed by tl|Prelats, to have been introduced and praAiied without Whrand of Authority, either Civill or Eccleliafticall; and thiit eftablilheth Offices in God’s houfe, which are not warramed by the Word of God, and are repugnant to tke Difcipli;and Conftitutione of our Kirk ; That it is an Impediment,the Entrie of fit and worthy Men to the Miniftry, and toDifcharge of their Duty after their Entrie, conform toDifcipline of our Kirk : Therefore the Aifembly, all inVoice, hath reje&ed and condemned, and by thefe Prefenjdo rejeft and condemne the faid Book ; and prohibitsUfe and Pra&ife of the fame 5 and ordains Presbyteriesproceed with the Cenfure of the Kirk againft all fuch astranlgreffe.TV. The Generali Affembly, after due Trial, having fourlThat the Court of High Cdmmiflion,hath been ere&ed witout the Confent or Procurement of the Kirk, or Confentthe E,ftates in Parlianienf, That it fubverteth the Jurifdictiiand ordinary Judicatories and Affemblies of the Kirk-f ilu>^Presbyteries, provincial! and national! Ai^emb!ies•, That itnot regulate by Laws, Civill or Ecclefiafticall, but at the C,cretion and Arbitrement of Commiifioners ; That it giw•to ecclefiaflicall Perfdns, the Power :oi both the Swords, ato "Perrons meerly Civill, the Power of the Keys and Ricenfures : Therefore the AfTembly, all in one Voice, hath dr allowed and condemned, and byj^iefe Prefents, doth (iifalhand condemne tile faid Court, as unlawfull in it felf, and p Ijudiciall to the Liberties of Chrift’s-Kirk and Kingdome, r^ting’s,Honour, in maintaining the eftablifhed Laws and Tjidicatofies of the It irk; and prohibits the Ufe and PraAj©f the fame ; and ordaines Presbyteries to proceed withCt-nf'ures of-the Kirky'againft all fuch as fhall tranfgreffe,The General Affembly of the Church of Scotland, in |fame Affcmbly at Glafgow} Dec. 13, 1638, judicially de-n:d and excommunicated Matters John Spctlfroocd, pretend¬ed Archbilhop of St. Andrews, Patrick Lindfay, pretend-d Archbilhop of Glasgow, David Lindfay, pretended Bp., 3f Edinburgh, Thomas Sidferfe, pretended Bp- of GaUowayyt ifl/j/i Maxwell, pretended Bp. ot Rofs, Walter Whytford, pre¬ended Bp. of Brechen, Adam Ballantine, pretended Bp. of-Aberdeen, James Wedderburn, pietendedBp. of Dumblain.1 Alfo Sentence of Depofition againtt Matters John Guthrie,retended Bp. of Murray, George Graham, pretended Bp. ofi Tney, James Fairly, pretended Bp. of Lifmore,Neil Camp-I. preten&e&Bp. of the IJles, Alexander Zindfay, pretend-I. Bp. of Dunkeld, John Abernethy, pretended Bp. ofCath-fs, in General,, I. For declining the General AfTembly of the Church ofotland by their Procurator, Dr. Hamilton.II. For incroaehing upon the Liberties and Jurifdi&ion ofe Church, contrare unto the Conditions agreed upon in theicneral Aflembly 1600, at Mcntrofe.III. For receiving of Confecfation to that infamous Office: Epifcopacy, condemned by the Confeflion of Faith, andlifts of this Church, as having no Warrant nor Foundation1 the Word of God.'IV. For prefling the Church oi Scotland with Novationsthe Worihip of God, by Virtue of their ufurped Power,id the Power of their High-Commiffion.'j V. For their feveral other hainous Offences and Enormi-es, at length expreffed, and clearly proven in their feveralirocefifes; and their Contumacy to‘the General AfTembly,I their refuflng to undergo Trial and Cenfure for the fame,ilore fully to befeen in the printed Afts ofth* General Af-:tiltmbly 1638.Attemh\y at Glafgow, Dec. 20, 1638 ; Seff. 26.Vtt concerning the ConfeJJion of Faith, renewed inI February, 1638. ^M t - -WlW ,rHE Affembly confidering, that for the Purging andPrefervation of Religion, for theKing’s Majetties Ho-our, and for the publick Peace of the Kirk and Kingdome,ae Renewing of that nationall Covenant and Oath of thiskirk and Kingdome, in February 1638, was moft neceflareikeas the Lord hath bletted the fame from Heaven> withalMh..!.:——n-n|' ■. “ <t — woil-W... ( 8 )tS'onderfull Succeue Tor the good of Religion*, That the fauiCovenant fufpendeth the Pradtife'of Novations already introduced, and the Approbation of the Corruptions of the prefertt Governement of the Kirk, with the civill Places amPower of Kirk-men, till they be tryed in a free Generali A1‘,fembly : And that now, after long and ferious Examinatiorjit is found. That by the ConfeiHbn of Faith, the five Artiiicles*of Perth, and Epifcopal-government, are abjured,! and tfbe removed out of this Kirk, and the civill Places and Powof Kirk-men, arp declared to be unlawfull; the Alfembly alloweth and a.pprbveth the fame, in all the Heads and Article,thereof, and ordaineth, that all Minifters, Mailers of Uniyerfities, Colledges and Schooles, and all others, who hanot already fubfcribed the faid Confeifion and Covenant, fha.|fubfcribe the fame, with thefe Words prefixed to the Sulfieription,The Article of this Covenant, which was ithe firft Subfcription, referred to the Determination of tl:Generali Aflembly, being now determined at GUfgom,JDecewber 1638 : And thereby", the five Articles of Perthand the Governement of the Kirk by Bifhops, being decla*red to be abjured and' removed, the civill Places and Powejof Kirk-men declared to be unlawful!. We fubferive accor]ding to the Determination of the faid free and lawfull Generail Alfiembly, holden at Glafgevo ; and ordaineth, ad perpe-tuamrei memoriam, the faid Covenant witfo thisDeclaratioreto be infert in the Regifterspf the Alfemblies of this KirkJGenerali, Provincial! and Presbyteriail.'Alfembly at Edinburgh, Auguji i-j, 1639 ? ce^"* 8*714after George Graham, his renouncing and abjuringof Epifcopaiy*The which Day, phere veas given into the AJJe'mbly, direhfrom Air. George Graham, fometime pretended Bijpop <>Orkney, an Abjuration of Epifcopacy, jubferibed with hi'Jland, which was publicklymL^foin Audienoc of the Affembly, and thereafter they^^firted the fame to be regifir ate in the Ajfembly-Socks, ad perpetuam rei memoriamij•whereof the 1 enor follows,TO all and fundry whom it effeirs, to whofe Knowledge]thefe Pfefents fhall come; fpecially to the Reverenciand Honourable Members of the future Alfembly,to be hoiden at Edinburgh the 12th i/ay of Auguft, 1639 Years: M«vt failer George G rah am,pretended Bilhop of Orkney xl ;ing forry and grieved at my Heart, That I ihouid everyi r any worldly Retpeft, have ■ embraced the Order of £-i tfcopacy ) the lame having-no Warrant from the Word ofrod ; and being filch an Order, as hath had fenfibly manyarful and evil Confequences in many Parts of Chriftendom,ad particularly within the i£irk of Scotland, as by dolefullid deplorable Experience this Day is maniieft, to have dif-laimed: Likeas I, by the Tenor hereof, do altogether dif-iaimand abjure all Epifcopal Power and jurifdiefion, withic whole Corruptions thereof condemned by lawful Affem-lies within the laid Kirk of Scotland ; in Regard, the fame■ fuch an Order, as, is alfo abjured within the faid Kirk,' y Virtue of that national Oath, which was made in theears 1580 and i^Sl, promifing, and (wearing by the greatfame of the Lord our God, That I ihall never while I live,iredfly, or indiredlly, exerce any fuch Power within the;.irk; neither yet ihall l eVer approve, or allow the fame,at fo much as in my private or publick Difcourfe: But,n the Contrary, ihall ftand and adhere to all the A&s andionftitutions of the late Aifembly holden at Glafgov), the 21ft{Nov* 1638, lad by pa ft; and ihall concur to the utter-liofl of my Power, iincerely and faithfully, as Occaiion ihallliter, in Execution of the faid Acts, and in advancing the’’York of Reformation within this Land,to the Glory of God,he Peace of the Country, and the Comfort and Content-aent ofall good Chriltians, as God ihall be iny Help. In'eflimony of which Premiffts, 1 have fuhfcribed thir Pre-:nts with my Hand, at hrSeknefs in Strones, the eleventhfay of February, the Year of God 1639 Years, before tbirVitnelTes, Mif. V/alter Stervart Minilterat Sbiutronald-,i)i, Mr. James Hynd, Minder at Kirkwall, Mr. Robertweirfon Minider at Ftrtb, and Mr. Patrick Graham Mini-ter at Holme, my Son.I For further Light and Satisfaftion into the Truth ofihat is here infert, we re§^ ^ou unto the Proceedings ofaefe two famous, free, and faitfhful General Aflembliesf the Church of Scotland ; the fird held at 'Glafgow, 163^,ie other at Edinburgh, 1639, which are extant in Manu-i:ript, lodged yet in the Hands of Severals ; where you’llI.nd Prelacy, Book of Common Prayer^ and Book of Canonsrought to the Bar of Scripture. Reafon and Antiquity,*irly examined, condemned and judly abolifhed. PRE-c 10 )PREFACE to the Directory for the fublick Worjhip of G 0D, agreed upon by the Ajfembly of Dlvines at Weftminfter 1645, and a proved arte,received hy the Kirk of Scotland the jarne Year.IN the Beginning of the blefTed Reformation, our wifeand pious Anceilors took care to let ibrth an Order toil]Red refs of many Things, which they, th n, by the Wor dlldifeovered to be Vain, Erronious, SuperjHtious, and :do!al|trous, in the publick Vorlhip of God. This occhlionec#many godly and learned Men to rejoice much in the BooMEof Common-Prayer, at that Time let forth ; becaul'e the »Mals, and the reft of the Latins Service being reAioved,the publick Worfhip was celebrated in our own Tongue!many of the common People abb received Beneiit by beaning the Scriptures read in their own Language, which for*„ merly were unto them as a Book that is lealedHowbeit, long and fad Experience hath made it mmifeftThat the Liturgy ufed in the Church of England, (notwith-{landing all the Pains and .Religious Intentions of the Com.pilers of itj hath' proved an Offence, not only to many 0.the Godly at Home; but alfo to the reformed ChurcheAbroad. For, not to fpeak of urging the reading of all thiPrayers, which very greatly increafed the Burden of it t;the many unprofitable and burdenfom Ceremonies, contained in it, have occafioned much Mifchief, as well by dillquieting the Confciences of many Godly Minifters, a,ptPeople, who could not yield unto them, as by deprivingthem of the Ordinances of God, which they might not ehjoy without conforming or fubferibing to thofe CeremoniesSundry good Chriftians have been by Means thereof kepfrom the Lord's Table, and divers able and faithful Minifterdebarred from the Exercife o£ th^ir Miniftry (to the endargering many Thoufand Souls,’iif a Time of fuch Scarcity cfaitlvul Pallors) and fpoiled of their Livelyhood, to thi 'undoing of them and their Families. Prelates and theiiFa&ion have laboured to raife the Eftimation of it' to fucan Height, as if there were no other Worfhip, or Way tWorfhip of G O D, amongft us, but only the Service-Book:to the great Hindrance of the Preaching of the Word, an« ci n fome Places, efpecially of late) to tlie juftling «f it own*: s unneeeflary ; or ( at belt) as far inferior to the reading of1 uommon-Prayer, which was made no better than an idoly many Ignorant and Superftitious People, whd pleafing1 hemfelves in their Prefence at that Service, and their Lip-:.bour in bearing a Part in it, have thereby hardned them-Ives in their Ignorance and Carelefnels of laving Knowledgemd true Piety.I the mean Time, Papifts boafted, that the Book was aCompliance with them in a great Part of their Service ; and') were not a little confirmed in their Superftition and Idola¬ry, expefting rather our Return to themj than endeavou-ing the Reformation of themfelves ; In which Expectationhey were of late very much incouraged, when upon theiretended Warrantablenels of impofing of the former Cere-nontes, new Ones were daily obtruded upon the Church.J Add hereunto (which was not forefeen, but fincehath comea pafs) that the Liturgy hath been a great Means, as on thene Hand to make and increafe an idle and unedifying Mini-try, which contented it felf with fet Forms made to theirHands by others, without putting forth themfelves to exer-fife the Gift of Prayer, with which our Lord Jefus Cbriflpieafeth to turnifh all his Servants whom he calls to that Of¬fice ; So on the other fide, it hatb been (and ever would be,f continued) a Matt, r ofendlefs Strife and Contention inl|he Church, and a Snare both to many godly and faithfulM nifters, who have been perfecuted and filenced upon that'Occafion, and to others of hopefui Parts, many of which'.nave been, and more dill would be diverted from all Thoughtssf*the Miniitry to ether Studies ; efpecially in thefe latterTimes, wherein God vouchiafeth to his People more and^better Means for the Dilcovery of Error and Superflitioh,'^ind for attaining of Knowledge in the Myfteries of Godlinel'S,>fand Gifts in Preaching and Prayet.Upon thefe, and many the like weighty Confideradons, in.■Reference to the whole Book in general, and becaufe of di-Ijvers Particulars contained in it; not from any Love to No-bvelty,or Intention to difparage our firfl Reformers (of whomwe are perfwaded, that, were they now alive, they wouldjoin with us in this Work, and whom we acknowledge as ex¬cellent Inftmments^ raifed by God, to begin the Purgingand Building of his Houle, and defire they may be bad of 113and Poflerity in everlafting Remembrance, with Thankful-fulnefsfulnefs and Honour;) but that we may, in Tome Meafianbyer the gracious Providence of God, which at this Ticalleth upon us'ror further Reform tion, and may latiiour own Conlciences, and anfwer the Expe&ation of otfreformed Churches, and the Defires of many of the Goi'among our lelves, and withal give fome publick Tellimofof our Endeavours for Uniformity in Divine \Vordup, wh;we have promifed in our Jde/ww and Ovsnant:have, after earned and frequent calling upon the Nam;God, and after much Confultation, not with ElefhBlood, but with His holy Word, relblved to lay afideformer Liturgy, with thmany Rites and C 'remonies Mmerly uled in the Worlh p of <Jod; and have agreed uthis following Direflory for all the Parts of publick l^orfhiat ordinary and extraordinary Times.Wherein our Care hath been, tj hold forth fuch Thin|as are of Divine Inftitution in every Ordinance ; and otlfhave endeavoured to fet forth according toThingsweR.utes of ChrilHan Prudence, agreeable to the general Rulof the Word of GoA : Our Meaning therein being only, ththe general Heads, the Wen fe and S:ops of the Prayers, atother Parts of publick Wfbrlhip, being known to ah, the:may he a Content of alf the Churches, in thofe ’hings thcontain the .Tubdance of the i'rvice and if^orlhip of <7odand the Miniders may be hereby direfted in their Adminftrations, to keep like d'oundnefs in Dodtrine and Prayetand may, if Need be, have fome Help and Furniture ; atyet fo, as they become not hereby flothful and negligent)ftirring up the Gifts of Chrid in them , but, that each onby Meditation, by taking heed to himfelf and the Flock ^God commuted to him, and by wife obferving the Wafof Divine Providence, may he careful to iiirnifh his Henand Tongue with further, or other Materials of Prayer atExhortation, as ftiall be needful upon all Occafions.Royal Witneffes, with Refpcft to the Englifh-ServicKing Edward Vf. his Anfwer to the People alfembledDevcnjhtre, Anno 1^4.9.AS for the Service in the Tongue, it hath marfed Reafons for it : And yet perchance it feemethyou a new Service, and indeed is none other than the OIifelf-fame Words in EngUJh which were in Latin, fayingtew Things taken out, which were fo fond, that it hadch a "'hameco have heard them in Englijh, as all they canjige, which lift to report the Truth. The Difference is,h meant godly, that you Our Subjefts Ihould underftand\EngUfb, being Our natural Country Tongue, that which;s heretofore fpoken in Latin, then ferving only for them,hich underftood Latin, and now, for all you which be bomtglijh- How can this with Reafon offend any reafonablean, that he Ihall underftand what any other faith, and fonfent with the Speaker ? If the Service in the Church was:od in Latin, it remaineth good in Englijh •, for nothing istered, but to Ipeak with Knowledge, that which was ipo-n with Ignorance, and to let you underftand what is-faid• you,to the Intent you may further it with your ownDevo-}m : An Alteration to the Better, except Knowledge be worfean Ignorance. So that, whofoever hath moved you to dif-e this Order, can give you no Reafon, nor anfwer yours,ye underftood it. fox’s AQs and Monuments, V'cl. 2.ig. 66 j.In the eighth SefTion of the General AfTembly held in Av-[i 1590, King James VI. was prefent, where he praifedbd, That he was born infucha Time, as in the Time of; Light of the Gofpel, to fuch a Place, as to be King ofi:h a Kirk, the fmcereft Kirk in the World. The Kirk of:neva, faid he, keepeth Pa/o/j and Tule : What have theyt them ? They have no Inftitution. As for Our Neigh-mr Kirk in England, their Service is an evil-faid Mafs i«iglijh ; they want nothing of the Mafs but the Liftings. Ilarge you, My good People, Minifters, Do&ors, Elders,oblemen, Gentlemen and Barons, to ftand to your Purity,d to exhort the People to do the fame ; and I forlboth, fopg as Ibruik my Life and Crown, fliall mantain the famejainft all Deadly, There was nothing heard for a Quar-r of an Hour, but praiftng God, and praying for the King.ildtrxoctod’i Hifi, Pag. 2‘)6, 257.fsAs to Prela-y and the Identity ofBilhop and Presbytery thejieat Erafmus upon 1 Tim. 4.. 4. Bilhop Cranfner, in his: Conferences, P. 310, 331. Bilhop in Defence of his' pology, Part 2d, Chap. 9. Divif. 1. Bilhop Morton inis Catbolick Apology, Part x. Chap. 33. Bilhop Bilfon in hisiook zgiinto. Seminaries, Lib. 1. Pag. 318. and Archbilhopfbiteguift againft Cartbrigbt, asd many Others ; as Bilhop» Fuli,C .14 ) IFuJk, Bifhop PWmtgton, Bilhop Fox, X5c. Dr. DanbatmDr. Hooker, Dr. Wottaker, Dr .Holland, and Dr. StillingjleeVLin their Writings, overthrew the pretended .Divine Right 1 IPrelacy, and plead tor it only, as an humane InlHcutior r,And not only to, but thefe very Biihops and prelatical D:1vines, give their clear and full Confent, That Arch-ep; ;icqpacy, as it differs from Presbytery, was only of human -Right, and not of divine Imlitution : And thefe Biihops anDolors further affirm and prove out of the Fathers, Th'Lthe Church, at hrft, was governed by common Counfel 1Presbyters. And therefore ifiihops (Tays One of them out > *Hiercm) mull: underiiand, that they be'greater than Min tfters, rather by Cuftom, than the Lord’s Appointment; at jj.the Biihops came in after the Apoftles P’imes. Jus Divinm*Minifteri Evangel. Part 2d, Chap. iv.Alio, Daniel Tilen, in his Difputations in the College :Sedan, Geaeva, printed 1618. P. ^44, declares. That tl ,Difference between Biihop and Presbyter, hath no Found;tion in the facred Scriptures, but is only founded upon b 1niane IniHtution : For Confirmation of which, he cites Hi [«rom. Lombard. Gratian. Card. Ci<fan. All which fairly yiel >»the Caufe of the piretended Divine Right of Prelacy.The Greek Pojlfcrifts of the E\ifiles to Tirrothy anTitus, cleared in the Parliament e/England.T' H E Authority of that moil ancient Parchment _M. lr.Copy of the Bible, remaining in his Majefty’s Libra|.at St. being all written in great Capital CreekLetteiwas vouched anu ailerted by Sir Simonds D Ernes,. in> < ,Speech delivered by him on Friday, June 11, 1601, in tMorning,upon the Debate of the Bill touching Biihops, q >bv which, it infallibly appeareth, That the (tiling ofhmrt. ■the firlt Biihop ot Epbefus,and Titus the firft Biihop ofCrqfire but the bold and fpurious Additions oi tome Eaftern Eihopor Monk, to the Pollfcripts of thole Epiftles otSt. P<mat lehft 5co Years after Chriil. 1 he Poilfcripts of the fa .Epiftlesl in that ancient Manufcript, agreeing in the Ma ^with the Siriac Teftament, are only thus : Ihe fitjt 1;Timothy, written from Lacdicew, The fecond to Timothy, wr. ,ten from Laodicea ; To Titus, written from Niccpolis. Tt frare M. S. was fent to his Majefty, that now is, by Cyr\ius, then Patriarch oi Alexandria ■, in which the firtl Let! j,A. (lands for ‘TryuTti and the iecond Letter B. forSCRIPTURES, &c.What Thing foever I command you, obferve to d» it; thoualt not add .thereto, nor diminifh from it. Deut. 12. 32.ITo the Law andto theTeftimony, if they fpeak not a-'cor¬ing to this Word, it is becaufe there is no Light in them.'a. 8. 2o.1 Wherefore the Lord faid, Forafmuch as this People drawcar me with their Mouth,- and their Fear towards„e, is taught hy the Precept of Men ; therefore, behold, Iill proceed to do a marvellous Work amongft thele People,ren-a marvellous Work, and a Wonder ; for the Wifdom ofeir wife Men fhall perifli, and the Underdanding of theirrudent Men fhall be hid. y/b. 29. 13, 14.He anfwered and faid unto them, Well hath Ifaiah prophe-ed of you Hypocrites, as it is written, This People ho-jureth me with their Lips, but their Heart is far frome. Howbeit, in vain do they worfhip me, teaching foro&rines the Commandments of Men ; For, laying afide theommandment of God, ye hold the Tradition ofMen, as thetalking of Pots and Cups,and many other fuchThings ye do." owbeit full well ye rejeft the Commandment of God, thatiU may keep your Tradition. Mari 7. 6, 7, 8, 9.JThus faith the Lord, Stand ye in the Way, and fee, andk for the old Path, where is the good Way, and walk there-, and ye fhall find Reft for your Souls. ■. Jer. 6. 16,l! And he faid unto them, The Rings of the Gentiles exercifjordfhip over them ; and they that exercife Authority u-■on them, are called BenefaiFors : But ye fhall not be fo, but1: that is greateft among you, let him be as the Younger,lid he that is Chief, as he that doth Serve. Luie 22. 25,5. Matt. 22. 25, 26, 27. Mari 10. 42, 43, 44..•7 Feed the Flock of God, which is among you, taking theytyerfight thereof, not by Conftraint, but willingly ; notr filthy Lucre, but of a ready Mind; neither as being Lordsrer God’s Heritage, but being Enfamples to the Flock.Vet. 5. 2, 3. 2 Cor 1. 24.h And from Miletus, hefentto Ephefus, and called the El-tfers of the Church : Take heed therefore unto your felves,bd to the Flock, over the which the Holy Ghoft hath mademu Overfeers, or Bijhops, to feed the Church of God. ActsIp. 17, 28. Pbil. 1. Acts 6. 3, 4.! Ye obferve Days and Months, and Times and Ycars-Gat.I 10. ,'n I Wherefore, if ye be dead with Chrift from the Rudiments4( i6 ) . . .of the World,, why, as though living in the World, aiye fubjeel to Ordinances (Touch not, tafte not, handle i;ewhich are all to perifli with the Ufingl after the Commartments and Doftrines of Men ; which Things have indeta Show of Wifdom, in Will-worfhip and Humility, £?■ Col. 2. 20, 21, 22, 23.Meddle not with them that are given to Change. Proi24. 21.Wherefore come out from among them,and be ye feparat*faith the Lord, and touch not the unclean Thing, and I wi]receive you. 2 Cor. 6. 17.For Treatises which further difcover and confute Prelacyand ihe 5>cots and Engliih Common-Prayer Books, the Retdsr, that has more Leifure, may confult1. Zion s Plea againit the Prelacy, 4to.2. 4]tare Damalcenum, Edwardi Didoclavii, 4to, 16,2;.3. Gillefpy’s Engliih Popiih Ceremonies, 4to, 1637.4. Dwalfintramus Anatomyot'theService-Book, 4to, 1645. Hugh’s Popiih Errors and Ungodlinefs in the Ser. i.6. The \natomy of the Common-Prayer Book, 4to, 166%7. Baillie’s Paralel of the Liturgy and‘Mafs-Book, 4tfSi. Firmin againd Vandon on the Liturgy, 4to, i659. Pinn’s ExaminatibiPof the Common-Prayef,''4td,x6610. Foreder againll Epiicopacy, 4to, 1706.11 Smecfimnus Rkdivivus 4to, 1708.12. Queries to the Scots Innovators, C?f. 4to, 1712.13. Anderfon againd Rhind, 4to, 1714.14. Anderfon’s Dialogues, 4to.15. A moded Apology, occaiioned by the Biihop of i?et-16. De Laun’s Plea tor Noconformids, 8vo, 1712.17. A niodedApology for the Church ofSWfAs/^Svo, 17118. Janiefon’s Sum ofEpiicopal Controverfy, 8vo, 171,19. King’s Enquiry into the Conditution, Unity anWorihip ofthe primitive Church, 8vo. 1713.ADVERTISEMENT ViIF due Encouragement he given, there is a Z>efign tpubliih the Minuts and whole Proceedings oftwo free and faithful General AffemLUes; the fird heldGlafgow, November 27, 1638, the Latter at EdinburgAugufi 17, 1639. containing the Way and Manner .of theProceeding judicially to purge the Church of all Corru:^ions and Innovations introduced by Prelacy, both •ZStxdrine, Worfliip, i?ifcipline, and Government.,f v Jb I