•J 7STIRLING sT?IVT)CU BY W. M AC«I«.W^eri ’* aK'sv* V^p' nn Sale, a dv':Cf a .<1 ctIcWit* •*, •jn.rk-Dient o| Historic*, S»ngs, Cuil ’ren’s Sfury EtK-^t,S*hom lijoks, &c.', #ct.Life and TransactionsOFMRS JANE SHORR«/CONCUBINETO KING EDWAIID THE FOURTH,THELife and TransactionsOFMRS JANE SHORE.J^[RS JANE SHORE was daugh¬ter to Mr. Thomas Wainstead,a citizen of good repute, who livedin Cheapside, by trade a mercer. Shebeing the only child of her parents,was brought up with all $he care andtenderness imaginable ; no: wantingany education that was proper forher j and her natural temper, whichwas very airy, being joined to hereducation, and that degree of pride,which, as it is natural, some makenecessary for the female sex, helpedto set her off to the best advantage.  Fine feathers always make finebirds, and it the birds are fine with¬out them, doubtless they make themdoubly so.9This lovely woman, was the de¬light of her father, who clothed herrichly, adorning her with jewels $and his trade lying a mong the court-ladies, he often carried her with himto shew her the pastimes which weremade frequently there, to divert thequeen, See. which gave her aa ear’ylonging after a greater gentility thaui she had eve^* yet attained to, or heri city breeding was fit to produce.When she grew to the age of fifteenher competent s ock of beauty and1 good carriage, caused many tofall in love with her, and some great' lords fixed their eyes upon her, toi! get her for a mistress, which her fa¬rther perceiving,.sent her to his sisterI at Northampton, where she remain-led aboujj a year, ■ till he supposed theji inquiry after her was over, and thatrshe might return without any ha-tjZHFd of being any f urther tempted t©Mewdness, Yet she was no soonerjreturned, than a plot v*as laid one(night to have her carried away by|Urd Hastings, who, after the death4of King Edward, took her for hi*concubine, as will apppartn the closeof this his ory. But the maid he hadbHbed with gold to ge: her abroad,repenting of such treachery, to hermaster gave timely notice, and soprevented it.Her father perceiving, that, unlesshe took some speedy course, hergreat stock of beauty would be herruin, resolved to marry her, so thathaving sin rendered her Virginity,and being in the arms of a husband,those that sought to crop her VirginRose would not regard her, but giveover their pursuit.And among those that courted,and earnestly sought her, in way ofmarriage, was one ^lattliew Shoie,a rich goldsmith in Lombard-street,'•t'vb.om !;tr father pitched upon as aft husband, and acquainted Ins fairdau diier with his initmiou to mar-her him, but she appeared veryavers® to 5r, alledgiag sometimes dis-ptoporucu Ot years, re bsmg abovethirty ; at other thres his feeingdis-fieurad with the small pox, an l ma¬ny other extepttoDS she sna ie. Ho-w-e\rer, !\er lather’s positive commandsand the rich presents her lover madeher, won her consent, or seeminglyshe yielded to the match, and* so mar¬ried they were in great pomp ; ma¬ny the-court, as well as the city,being invited to the wedding, whichwas kept with great feasting, at anydays.7’he wedding being over, andthe ' bridegroom having, enjoyed hischarming bride, grew exceedinglyfond of her, even to dotage, whichsickened and pilled her love towardhim, and he perceiving it, strove to\yind Himself more inro her alfhc-tions; and to this end he clothed hervery ric dy, and adorned her withjewels, denying her nothing she de¬sired, or tuat nc thought would tendto her satisfaction or delight.It was not long bet me Lord Hav¬ing heard the unwelcome tidingi*6that his fairest Jane was married ;which, however, did »oc make himgive over his purpose of enjoying herfair body : so that often he resorted* *to see her, treating her at home, andher husband abroad ; often invitingthem both to court, and took hia;opportunities to pour cut many a-morons discourse?, endeavouring, byail means, to make her defile themarriage-bed. And one time intend¬ing to try his utmost efforts, he threwher on a bed when they were alone ;.but she got from him, and ran toher husband, telling him plainly howrude Lord Hastings had been, whichangering Shore he modestly rebuk¬ed him, and forbade him his house,which made him go away in a greatheat, but resolving to be revenged.This Lord, being Chamberlain toK. Edward the IV. having frequentlyhis ear; and finding he was muchinclined to fine women, though he. was married to Lady Elizabeth Grey,took an opportunity to tell him ofJane’s beauty, extolling her wit a-7<*bore her features, which made theKing hearken to this nevz adventureand he resolved to go to Shore’s shopin disguise to see her.The King whose thoughts still rancn his intended mistress delayed notlong to pay her a visit; and in orderto it, attired himself like a merchantand withdrew privately from court,being only attended by his page iAnd corning unto Shore’s shop, thenthe richest in all Lombard-street, hefound the-good man employed in htabusiness ; and waiting till he was alittle at leisure, he desired to see somoplate, which being shewn him, heunder a pretence o£ carrying it be¬yond sea, soon agreed for a consider¬able quantity : Hut ye% no wife ap¬peared, which made him delay thetime with discourse, of what was thentransacting in England and placesabroad, where he said he had tra¬velled.This delighted Shore mightilv, sothat hj ordered his man ta fetch up^ttle of wine, and they dranV.Merrily, the good rran beginningwith a 'health to the King, whichthe King pledged him in. So whensome other healths had passed, theKing asked, if there was not a mis¬tress to so fair a house ? otherwise, hecould help him to a wife, rich, youngand beautiful.^ . IFor this offer, Shore thanked him,btvt told him, he was already mar¬ried to such a one as he ‘escribed,whom he laved entirely; This dis¬course made the King more desirousto see heh ere lie departed, and askedif he could no*- have a sight of her,Shore, little thinking what was in¬tended for Ins ruin, and proud ofhis wile’s beauty, soon yielded to hisrequest, and ordered her to be calleddown, who came attired in a sky-colourcd morning gown, fl iwemlwith gold, embroidered with pea>!sand spangles, her head attired withcurious lace under which herflowed wontenly, and her blushesmade her appear still more beautiful*9The Kino; no sooner sa-tf her, bathe stepped forth and saluted her corallips impressing on them many bal¬my kisses. Then she, by her hus¬band's desire, sat down, and the Kingdrank to her, she pledged him, andpassed it to her husband. Then muchdiscourse ensued, in which she ap¬peared sq witty, that the King re¬solved to have h^r at any rate, andi so presented her with some curiousi things. He paid for his plap% whichi the good man would have sent homebut he refused it, ordering his pageto carry it ; and, w;th many kisses,1 he t.ioc leave ot the charming lairs one for that ti ne.The King had no sooner departed,1 but Jane asked her husband. Who1 that gentleman was, that had beenl so liberal to her ? he told her, he saidi he was a merchant, but he knew himI not. Ah ! s.yd she, 1 rather take himfor some Lord in disguise ; therefore,dear husband, if he should come a-gain, tell him that I am sick, or anything you can feign to disappoint himMr. Shore was greatly pleased ather conduct and more discourse hadpassed, but people coming into thechop about business, she retired.The Kirg soon arrived at court,where he had been missed by his no¬bles, soon changed his appaiel, andcame amongst them with a cheerfulcountenance, and tho’ others wereignorant, Hastings well perceivedwhere he had been and. the satisfac¬tion he had received, and no soonerwere they in private, but tire Kingcaid, Well Hastings, thou hast verygood judgment in hue women : Ihave seen Shore’s, wife, and she ex¬cels the praises you gave of her; Ilike her well, and must enjoy her,but how myist I bring it about ? tocourt htr in her huiband’s presence,ns a private person, I shall be servedas you was ; and to do it as a King,will look too low for me i willnot force her from his arms, forthat would cause a nfurmunug a-raong my subjects, who would fear'the like by their wives and daughters,11but I must have her, and with herown consent.Hastings smiling, immediately said,Take no care, for this shall he easyto your Majesty : There is one Mrs.Blague, your lace-woman, has a housepretty near Shore’s, and is very inti#mate with his viife. This woman isvery fond of money, to such a .de¬gree, that would make her do anything. Her will 1 engage to do thismatter, and trust me fhe will bringit to pass to your satisfaction. TheKing liked this advice, and it was a-greeci, that he should see her at thisMrs. Hague’s, and have freedom, tocourt her, but she should not knowthat he was. the King, till he thoughtproper to have it discovered.Lord Hastings was not idle in pro¬moting Lis master’s happiness, butwith gifts and large promises,' soonmade the lace woman pliable, so thatmany meetings were niade at herhouse, the King coming in disguiseas h&r friend ; and tho’ Mrs. Blague,12often left them alore, and the Kingcourted her u itb all his rhetorick, yetehe appeared averse to his love, andeften blanied him sharply for per-euading her to ('efile her husband’sbed, and then she w, u)(| cl ide Mrs.Blague lor tulFcring such a rude manto ceme to hei l ouse, telling her thedesign he had on n«tr chastity ; sheseemed very sutprized at it but en¬treated 1 er to be at ease, for she wouldnot suffer him to come there againany more.This pac’fied her, but the plot wa»Itill deeper laid lor her rum, and atChristmas ti i e. si e got have of Mr.'Shore for his wife io accompany her |to the court, to see the bad there,to which he consented with some un¬willingness ; And soon af er she wasintroduced, a man of very comelyport, entered with a mask on; andMrs. Shore heard the ladies whisperThat’s the King who looking roundthrough his mask, fixed his eyes uponher, immediately stepping to her,sear,look her out to dance along V. iih13'him. At this she blushed, but notto be unmannerly she complied, andthe dance being ended, he took herto a single light, and puihng off hi*mask to salute her, she perceived it■was the same man who n she hadceen a: her own shop, and at Mrs,; Blague’s house, and puning a letterinto her hand, he retired. She thencoming to Mrs. Blague, desired to gohome, to this she consented, and thenread the letter ; which was to thi*purpose:<l My Love Jane,“ Your beauty has enthralled myheart. 1 is a K ing sues, you will bekind to him, and by a line, tell him> os to his comfort.” 'When she read this letter, she leftMrs. Blague abtupt'y, judging sheI had a hand in the matter.'All this night the fair Jane wa*It restless : Her husband inquired theCause, but could not learn it. As14toon as she got up she went to Mrs*Blague, to consult what she must doin this strait, well knowing the king’shumoiir.Mrs. Blague, seeing her thus pen¬sive, s^id, Come my dear, you mustnot be coy, aor deny the king’s re¬quest : You will glitter so near %throne, and erjoy a gallant bed-fel¬low : 1 find he is resolved to have yowfor a mistress, and therefore, it isbest for you willingly to submit 4 >him.At this discourse she trembled, yetconsidering from the many attemptsher beauty had cmsed, that it w*snot made to be enjoyed by one, ina fatal hour she consented ; and in¬stead of writing an answer to theKing’s letter, it was agreed that verynight she should take her apparel, andpur herself into the hands of the king.This being concluded, Mrs Blaguesent the King no.ice, who sent a cha¬riot for them, and in the mean, time,her clothes were conveyed away toMrs.Blague’s. However, she supp’dtvnh her husband, when on a suddensomebody came on a feigned errand,and said, Her moiher had taken ill,and desired to speak with her. Hewould have gone with her, but sheput it Gif'; and giving him the lastkiss he e^er was to receive from her,she left him, and coming where thechariot stood ready, she and Mrs.Blague got into it, and were con¬veyed into the King’s secret apart¬ment, where they found him in hiscloser. He welcomed them, but itbeing late, Mrs. Blague departed, andthey went lo bed.Mr. Shore, sitting up late, and hiswife not returning, was very muchtroubled, and went to 3ns mother-in-law’s, but they had not seen her,ncr was her mother ill ; sc that herabsence troubled the whole family.The next day was spent in seekingfor her amongst •her relations andfriends, but found her not. Mrs.Biague protested she had not seen herand dropped soine dissembling tears.166e that her husband was almost dis*tracted, and at last-, they concludedghe was taken away by ?o ne cour¬tier; and in three days ahei\,a Ladyinformed them that she was with theKing. This added more to their griefthv./ knew not what coursfe to take ;and they knew if they went to crossthe King, it would be their ruin.♦ «They made inquiry indeed, if itwas her voluntary act, and findingit was, and she, quite unwilling toleave her knew lover,and lefi all hopeof recovering her, so that Mr. Shoregrowing melancholy, sold oO all hehad, and went abroad, but having•pent his fortune, he re urned in apoor condition, he p.acused clippingend filing go'd coin to maintain him-•elf ; for which lie suffered death inthe latter end cf Henry VII s reign.Jane Shore having rendered up herchastity to the King pleased withthe glittering of a court, and em.ear¬ed by a monarch’s love, was atimiredby the vulgar, towards whom she be-17haved in a most courteous manner-Her poser was so great with theKing, that when the courtiers durstnot intercede tor the poor and miser¬able char lay tinder Ids displeasure,she, with her wit, would so abate hisanger, that she saved the lives of ve¬ry many, both poor and rich. Andthough she couij in a manner do allwith him, yet it was never known sheused her influence to the prejudice ofany. And both in London, and thepr ogresses she-made in the country,she would cause poor people to besought for, and relieve their necessi¬ties, inducing and persuading others,who expected any good offices fromthe King by her means, to do thesame, never selling her favours ; andby her ready wit, she so bafll-d thecourt-ladies, who envied her aspringthat they found themselves unableto repartee. And though the King hadanother mistress before her, namelyLady Belly, yet he preferred our horoine much above her, and wouldoften mernly say, 1 have tvro mistrwk18«es, of quite different tempers, onethe most religious, and the other themerriest in England, and indeed shewas heM in great favour all thf reignof the King, having crowds of peti¬tioners waiting at her chamber-door,or at the chariot side, when she wasto ride abroad, whose suits to theutmost of her power she preferred.As lor Mrs. Blague, who least deserv¬ed of her, she procured of the Kinga stately house and Manor, worth£^80 a year. The Romish Priestsmuch spited her, because she shelter¬ed many from their rage and fury,after they had burned John Huss fora heretic.As no w’orldiy pomp nor greatnessis of long continuance, so now herglory was ended,- and her days of in¬expressible misery began ; for the kingdying at Westminster, in the fortiethyear of his reign, no sooner was heburied in the chapel of his ownfounding, at Windsor, but Csook-back’d Richard, his brother, whomurder’d Henry VI. and prince Hen-ry his son, aspiring to the throne,tho’ Edward had left two sons behindhim, viz. Edward and Richard, andse /eral daughters, alE lawfully be¬gotten with the Queen, he quarrelledwith Lord Hastings, (who after thedeath of the King had taken Jan©Shore, for hi* concubine, as npw free)because he would not assist him inhi* wicked project, of making awaywith his two nephews, whom he af¬terwards caused to be murdered inthe Tower, alledging that the Queenand Shore’s wife had bewitched him,shewing his withered arm, which allknew had been so horn his cradle $and, that Lord thinking to excusethe n, said if they have done so, theyought to be punished. Richard fu¬riously replied, Thou traitor, dostthou serve me with ifs ?. I say, k iia truth very well known to thee,that they have done so, and that Iwill make good on thy body : where¬fore I arrest thee, Lord Hastings, forhigh treason. And soon after, hecaused his head to be cut off in theTower.Jane Shore had no sooner notice ofthe death of Lord Hastings, her para¬mour, but she perceived a storm wasfallin|' on her o vrv head, therefore,she thought it necessary to providein time, and so she carried her jewelsto her okl confident Mrs. Blague,entreating her to conceal them fromher; but ship, like a faithless woman,when Jane came and asked for them,not only denied them, but when inthe greatest me!, slie came to cravealms fro n her, she thrust her our cfdoors, threatening to have her.whip¬ped for her impudence.Richardj by means aforesaid, hav¬ing got to the cro.vn, and to makehimself seem, fair by others’ sins tho*he was a,monster by nature, publiclydeclaring his n other to be a whore,his brother and his children to bebastards; caused his'■Queen to bepoisoned, and would have weddedhis niece. He ordeted bur J-ine Shoreto be apprehended, stripped of all shehad, and do pennance, by severaltimes walking in a white-sheet, and21then walk hare-footed and bare-head¬ed in her shite before the procession,with a cross and a wax tapir in herhand, through Cheapside, which shedid looking so lovely in oer blushes,that many pitied her; he also strip¬ped all her friends ami relations ofwhatever they had, pretending theyhad got ic all by her means from thecrown in K, Edward’s reign ; whichwith the disgrace their only daughterwas fallen into, caused her parent*death.Richard, not content with this, putout a severe proclamation to this ef¬fect: That on the pain of death, andconfiscation of goods, no one shouldharbour her in their houses, nor re¬lieve her with food or raiment. Sothat she vent wandering up anddown to find . her ford upon thebushes and on the dung-hills wheresome friends she had raised wouldthrow bones with more meat thanordinary, and crusts of stale bread inthe places where she generally blunt¬ed. And a baker, who had been con-riemned to die for a riot in KingEdward’s reign, and saved by hermeans, as he saw her pass along, ingratitude for her kindness, wouldtrundle a penny loaf after her, which«he thankfully received, and. blessedhim with tears in her eyes ; but somemalicious neighbour informing a-gainst him, he was taken up andhanged for disobeying King Richard’sproclamation ; which so terrified o-thers, that they durst not relieve herwith any thing; so that in miserablerags, almost naked, she went aboutj. most shocking spectacle, wringingher hands, and bemoaning her un¬happy fate.Thus she continued till the battleof Boseworch-field, where Richardwas slain by Henry Eai4 of Rich¬mond, who succeeded him by thename of Henry the VII.; in whichleign, she hoped for better days ;but fortune raised her another ad¬versary, for, he married Elizabeth,eldest daughter cf Edward the IV,and K. Edward’s Queen, who mcr-23ally hated her, then bearing a great\4way, another proclamation was is-iued to the same effect; and so sh®wandered up and down, in as pooriind miserable a condition as before,11 growing old, and utterly friead-jiss she finished her life in a ditch,hich was from thence called Shore’*itch, adjoining Bishopsgatc-street.Thu* you may see the rise and fallf this once stately, and then unhap-y woman, with whose dying La-entation, I sbuli conclude.The dying Lamentation of#MRS. JANE SHORE.lood People.pHOUGH, by the rigour of thelaw, you are forbidden to giveie any relief yet you may pity mynhappy state, for the scripture saith,jl'o the miserable pity should be shewn,iam now putting a period to a mi-[ rable life : a hie that I have been|ng weary of. Nor would I desirelive in the splendour, pomp, aad24glory of Edward’s court. No, I a'n j;happier nosy cn the dung-hill, thanever I wars in his arms: For oh I ilwas an adulterous bed indeed. Ohwretch ! th;t King Edward ! that |ever 1 was bet raped by him ! Whatfloods of sorrow have my sins occa-•ioned ? Oh! learn from me, goodpeople, tn beware of vain delights:tho’ they promise fair, they leave bit>ffcr stings behind them. Alas 1 youknow my punidiment is griev >us inithis world, and so it is, for I have |endured a thousand dea iis in one ;|but now, my dying moments are|come, I rtj ice. Sincere repentance jhas secured my happiness above.-—:ijBut O, where i t pem ance is net giv/n,Bwh.at seas of ter neat r tec the sool hiO happv cunghili, l ow do I einbracaJthee! From thee my pardoned soullshall soar to lieaven, though here Ihleave this fi;f y carcase.O tint the name of Shore, may besn antidote to stop he poisonous and |foul contagion of raging lust iQi' ever.finis.