[No. H.THE HISTORYOF THESCOTTISH PATRIOT,SIR WM. WALLACE,KNIGHT OF ELLERSLIE.“ Go,” said Wallace to the two "Friars, “ tell your officersthat the Scots came not here to treat for peace, but preparedifor battle, and aro determined to avenge our wrongs, and set| our country free from the iron yoke of Edward."—Seepa^ 15.LIBR^a C'of scotunc 7B UR &&..GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.I]THE HISTORYOFSIR WILLIAM WALLACE.To few men is Scotland more indebted, and few havebeen more' universally admired,Than the renownedSir Wn.i.iAM Wai.laci-,, whosernertiorystill conthmeito flourish in the annals of Scotland with unfadingglory. II is patriotism, generosity, penetration;knowledge of human nature, address, Courage, forti¬tude, perseverance, and prudence, rank him amongthe first of heroes. To such a degree of militaryeminence did he arrive, that the task would be diffi¬cult, if not impossible, to select one from the list ofmodern heroes who can equal him in greatness,lie was the youngest son of Sir Malcolm Wallaceof Ellcrslie, near Paisley, in Renfrewshire. Thedate of his birth is unrecorded, hut it must have beenprevious to the death of Alexander III., King ofScotland, who met with an untimely end by fall¬ing from his horse in 1 Alexander was thelast of a succession of princes who had held thesceptre for nearly 800 years, and left it in the handsof Ins grand-daughter, called the Maid of Korway,who, dying iu infancy, gave rise to the famous con-'tost of Paliol and Bruce for the Crown. Both par¬ties having referred to the decision of Edward I. ofEngland, that ambitious and crafty monarch unjustlyclaimed it for himself, and vainly attempted to de¬prive Scotland of her glorious independence. Toour noble hero it was reserved to be the first to vindi¬cate her wrongs, and restore her to ancient sj lendour.Though Wallace’s father was possessed of a smallproperty, yet the energy, the grandeur, and the in¬trepidity of the mind of his son were formed in theschool of adversity. Leaving his paternal home, beTIIK mSTORY OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 3Mvho was afterwards liis chaplain, and lived to recordIbis daring and unparalleled adventures.—The unfor-ituriato battle of Dunbar having led to the abdicationof John Baliol, the reigning monarch, Edward filled(every part of Scotland with English officers andi soldiers, who insulted the inhabitants, and preyedjupon the vitals of the humbled kingdom. Wal¬lace beheld the oppressors of his countrymen with< horror and indignation, sympathized with individualI sufferers, and mourned the degradation of his nativeand beloved land. The base injustice, treachery, and! cruelty of Edward’s governors became the subjecti of general conversation, and the numerous crueltiesand indignities of his officers and men exasperatedthe nation to the highest pitch. Wallace was of anincredible strength of body, and had arrived at thatperiod of life when the feelings are strong and ar¬dent, and every pulse beats with a generous glowtowards the objects of affect i:m. These frequentconve sations, and the outrages of the English atDundee, where he resided at school, appears first tohave roused his spirit in defence of his bleedingcountry. All places of power and wealth in thekingdom were given to Englishmen ; and, amongothers, one Selby had been elevated to the dignityof constable of Dundee. Young Wallace was citherinsulted, or considered himself so, by his son, andnot being of a temper to receive any insult with im¬punity, far less from an Englishman, he attacked,and, in presence of many of his companions, slewhim with his own dagger, and made his escapeto his uncle’s at Dunipace, in Stirlingshire. Afterremaining here a short time, he and his mother re¬turned to KllcrslVc ; but, finding that his father andelder brother had been cruelly murdered by theEnglish at Lochmnbon, his great and noble mindwas roused with indignation, and, panting with re¬venge, he meditated retaliations worthy of hisI country’s sufferings, and of the injuries which had1 '> f-.flir.v ot.cI I if Kvrvfli/*»•THE HISTORY OP4sideling himself unsafe beneath his mother’s roofjlhe went and lived secretly with his paternal uncloJJSir Richard Wallace, at Kiccarton.One day, while residing with his uncle, he went tofish in the Irvine, near Ayr; meanwhile. Lord Percy*with his armed suite, rode past on their way to Gins-’gow. Five of the English turned aside,and tauntinglydemanded the fish he had caught. He consentedto allow them part, but they insisted for the whole,and seized them from the hoy who carried the fish¬ing-basket. Provoked at their rapacity and inso¬lence, he gave one of them a blow on tfie head withhis fishing-staff, that brought him to the ground, andwrested the sword from his hand. The rest attacked,but they, to their experience, soon found that hisindividual strength, dexterity, and intrepidity weresuperior to their united force. Three of them, by,the powerful arm of Wallace, lay weltering in theirblood, and with difficulty the other two escaped,while Wallace rode home in triumph to bis uncleupon one of their horses. Persuaded that he couldnot remain longer here in safety, and being providedwith money and other necessaries, he set off on hisEnglish horse determined to seize every opportu- ■nity to destroy the enemy, and either deliver hiscountry or fall in (lie praiseworthy attempt. Firm ■to his resolution, he spared neither great nor smallthat fell in his way. For these heroic actions liewas outlawed by the English, and compelled, duringthe inclemency of the winter 1297, to live in thefields, the woods, the mountains, and the forests,where he wandered exposed to ail the hardships ,that it is possible for human nature to endure.These rough blasts of adversity, however, only tendedto brace his nerves, and prepare him to performgreater achievements.One day, Wallace,disguising himself, ventured infoAyr, and, sauntering through the town, passed bywhen the steward of Lord Percy was insulting theservant of the sheriff, and insisting that he shouldbin WILLIAM WALLACE. 5i&ave for his lord what the servant had bought forais master. Wallace interfered, and said that theliherifF was a very good man, and therefore he should' have his dinner. The steward gave Wallace a strokelover the shoulders with his hunting-cane, accom¬panied with the most opprobrious appellation thatm English invention could supply. Wallace drewitris dirk, and pierced the steward to the heart, leav¬ing the sheriff’s servant to return home with his pro¬vision. The English, who were guarding the tow n,assembled against Wallace; he drew his sword, anddealt destruction with every blow. None daring toapproach him, the gates were barricaded with theirspears to prevent his escape. He attempted to jumpover the wall at a place adjacent to the sea, butMultitudes of the English rushed upon him, and hissword, which had been so much used that day, broken pieces; he was overpowered with the spears,aken prisoner, and confined in the castle, to wait1 he most excruciating death. He languished iniirison, deprived of every consolation except what•esulted from a sincere desire of the welfare of hislountry, and even of the necessaries of life ; so thatvhen they were about to bring him forth, want ap¬peared to have terminated his existence. Theyhrew him over the wall of the prison ; but, fortu¬nately for his country, he landed upon a soft draff-lunghill- His nurse, hearing of the melancholywent, hastened, and in the most suppliant mannermtreated that she might take away his corpse. Hevas conveyed to her bouse in the new town of Ayr,vhere, by remedies and the most unwearied atten •ion, he revived under her motherly roof.The minister’s servant of Ayr reheld the mournfuli went, and, returning home, informed his masterEid family what he had witnessed. Thomas thehymer, the famous Scotch prophet, was residing atnhe minister’s at this time, who, hearing the vrefulbale, declared that he was not aVvjd vr his propheciesiwere all false which he had delivered respecting hisP--' '    ——6THE HISTORY OFemancipating Scotland. “ Before his di atli,” said he“ lie will slay thousands of the English, and thric<deliver Scotland from their thraldom.” Wallace soonrecovered his wonted strength, and, longing to appear among his friends and to avenge his country’wrongs, he seized a sword which was standing ithis nurse’s house, and proceeded to Riccarton, whither his friends and relatives hastened to concrratu-Olate him on his miraculous escape, rally round hi;standard, and bid defiance to the English armsWallace, with a brave little band, went to .shelter iia wood near Louden-hill, until an opportunityshould present itself of attacking the enemy. Afriend, having observed them enter the wood, carriedprovisions to them, and informed Wallace that anEnglish squire’s servant bad rode past to Ayr, andthat his master, with a party escorting some baggagefrom Carlisle to Ayr, would soon pass that way.Learning that they were ascending the hill, hehastened to lav his men in ambush, and to preparefor their reeeption. Wallace, perceiving that Fen¬wick, who had slain his father and brother, was theperson commanding this party, resolved to beavenged or fall in the combat. The English hav¬ing to pass a narrow path, they waited their arrivalat that place, and having engaged, a desperate con¬flict ensued. Of the English there were 1H0, butWallace had only f)0 men ; the former well armedon horseback, the latter on foot. Wallace’s soulfired with indignation at the sight of Fenwick, and,rushing upon him,cut his body in sunder. About 100of the English lay dead on the field, the rest making'their escape when they beheld the fate of their leader.Wallace seized the horses, baggage, armour, andmoney, which proved a very acceptable present.lie now took his route towards the shire of Argyleand the northern border of Lennox. Wanderingabout in the woods with a few who resorted to hisstandard, he came near to Gargunnock, where therewas a Dftss. .which .was stro.mdv .Hanjsoncd i>v. .theSIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 7I English. During the darkness of the night, hei seat two of liis men to examine the strength andsituation of the pass; and, receiving a favourableaccount of the possibility of attacking it with suc¬cess, he hastened towards it, took the place, putI the men to the sword, but set at liberty all the(women and children. He, with his patriotic band,(went into the wood of Mcthven, near Perth, theniealled St Johnstoun. Among the valiant and faitb-jful few who had marshalled under his banner of(freedom, was one Stephen, an Irishman, of uncom-)mon strength and courage, to whom Wallace gavethe command of the rest, while he and a few of hisimen paid a visit to the town of Perth. InformingStephen that they had provisions for several days,die told him to lurk secretly in the wood until hereturned, or to be prepared for action when heshould hear the sound of his horn. Matters beingthus adjusted, they proceeded to Perth. Beforethey could gain admittance, the provost was sent for,who, seeing Wallace a tall, strong man, asked if theywere all Scotsmen, and from what part of thecountry they came. “ My name is William Mal¬colm,” said Wallace : “ we have come from Ettrickforest, in the south, to seek for better employment,and to see the country.” “ I mean no harm,” saidthe provost, “in asking these questions ; but so manyeports have been circulated about one WilliamWallace, born in the west, who was killing everyEnglishman he could find, and seeing you a tall,strong man, it is necessary to know something aboutthose we admit into the town.” Denying that henew anything of Wallace, and beseeching him noto mention such a hated name, he and his men wereadmitted, and an inn and plenty of provisions pro¬vided until employment was found for them.Wallace often invited the English to drink withim, in order to ascertain their number and strengthn the place, and to obtain what other intelligencee could gather. He lamented that he could devise8THE HISTORY OFno means to take the town, which was in possession iot the English, as his men were too few in number ;and to set it on fire was only placing himself and jfollowers in imminent danger. But it was not jlong ere an opportunity was afforded him for thisdaring enterprise. There was then one Sir James .Butler in the town, an aged, cruel knight, who keptthe strong castle of Kinklevin, residing with his son,Sir John, an under-captain of Gerald Heron, and areport was spread that Sir James, with his party,,were to return to Kiaklevin Castle. TVallace, withhis followers, hastened to Methven-wood, blew hishorn, and all his intrepid band were quickly by hisside. Being well armed, they marched to Kink¬levin, and lay in ambush among a few bushes inthe valley on the banks of the Tay, meanwhile dis¬patching spies in different directions, some of whomsoon returned, informingThem that four men hadpassed, who appeared to be forerunners of the com¬pany. Wallace at length beheld 90 well-armed menon horseback, and prepared to attack them. The :English perceived the hostile intention of Wallace,and, brandishing their spears, rushed upon them,thinking to trample them under; but they were:boldly repulsed, and several, both men and horses,were slain. Butler alighted from his horse, andmarshalled his men in order to defend themselves, 'jIn the fierce contest which ensued, a few of the )Scots fell by the captain’s strong arm, and 60 of theEnglish, with their captain, were numbered w ith theslain ; the rest escaping to Kinklevin, the gate wasopened to receive them, hut Wallace, with his men,followed so close that they entered along with them,seized the castle, shut the gate, and drew the bridge.The women and children he allowed to depart withsuch effects as they chose to take with them. Hav¬ing removed all the provisions and necessaries, dur¬ing five nights, from the castle to Shortwood-shnws,he set it in fiames.The captain’s wife hastened to Perth, and in-SIR WILLIAM WALLACE!. 9formed her son, Sir John Butler, of what h;ul hap¬pened, who instantly commanded all the men ofPertli and neighbourhood to arm ; and, though theywere 1000 strong, with trembling hearts they ap¬proached the wood, the fame of Wallace being sogreat. Sir John arranged his men in six divisions,and having encircled the wood with live of them toprevent escape, he, with 200 faithful followers, enter¬ed in search of Wallace. He had only 20 archersopposed to 140 of the English archers, supported byGO spearmen. He girded on his buckler, seized hisbow, which was so strong and large that no manbut himself could bend it, and, discharging it, slew’one of the English archers. The Scotch were soregalled by a terrible shower of arrows which theEnglish discharged, one of which slightly woundedthe immortal Wallace ; hut, perceiving the danger[in which his men were placed, he changed theirposition, and, dashing through (he opposing ranks,Iushcd with tiger fury in quest of the English lead-;rs. The English ranks were thinned by the patri->tic band, and Wallace, encountering Sir John, slewaim and William Lorn, who had arrived during the:ontest with 300 men. The news that both com-nanders were slain, the remaining leaders assembled:hcir troops at the south end of the wood, and held a^ inference to see what should he done in the presentemergency, while Wallace and his men rushed outit the north side. Entering the wood, they foundj die bodies of Butler and Lorn, hut their horses and| gold were in p>osses$ion of the victorious Scotch,t i he English, under Sir Gerald Heron, returned to;aPertli w ith the news of their dishonourable and sad1 defeat. The terror of Wallace now daunted theditoutest of the enemy. Eive of the faithful few,s,iad fallen on that memorable day. Two days after,ijWallace, with his men, returned and conveyed theirM'oncealcd property from Shortwood to Methven-iqvood, and then removed to Eichn-i ark, pear Perth.While they remained in this place, Wallace, dis-THE HISTORY Of16guiscd in U Friar’s gown, paid frequent visits tdPerth, in order to receive what intelligence he couldprocure; hut some individuals, observing his repeatedvisits and robust and warlike appearance, communi¬cated their suspicions to the governor, Sir GeraldHeron. The house which he frequented was besetwith the enemy ; and being informed of their design!lie quickly dressed himself in female apparel, wontand informed the English that Wallace was lockedin a certain room,—they flew to seize their supposedprey, while he effected his escape with all possiblespeed. Two soldiers, suspecting him as beingrather a strong and fierce-like female, followed ; butWallace, suddenly turning upon them, drew hisconcealed sword, levelled them with the ground-and hastened to acquaint his comrades of his escape.The English, provoked at such a disappointment,marched fiOO men by the South Inch road, and hadnot proceeded far till they beheld the slain bodiesof their companions, which confirmed them in theirsuspicions of Wallace having taken this route.;Surrounding the wood, thc-y entered in search ofWallace, accompanied with a staunch bloodhoundto trace the slayer’s steps. Hemmed in on everyside, the hardy few resolved to conquer or to die ;the noble chieftain unsheathed his conqueringsword, offered up a prayer, and led his warriors,to the fierce attack. Fifteen of the Scots wereslain before they retreated to the banks of theTay, where they sought a place to cross: many ofthem could not swim, and rather than lose one dropof Scottish blood unrevenged, Wallace again re¬solved to face the foe. This little band, which was.,only 40 at the commencement of the battle, wasnow reduced to It), while the English had beenstrongly reinforced. They now closed with re¬doubled fury, Wallace seeking everywhere for theEnglish chief. The f-'cots had to flee before thewearied English to a place of safety, and were outot sight before the enemy was able to pursue them.Once more had the English recourse to their blood¬hound to trace their steps, and soon again were theyin sight of each other. Two miles of rising groundhad the Scots to climb before they reached a placeof defence ; and the night, which was fast approach¬ing, filled them with the hope of reaching a placeof safety. One Fawdon, who was wearied with\ fatigue, declared his inability to proceed ; and as hei was formerly suspected of treason, Wallace put anend to his existence, his followers concurring in thejustice of the act. The English gaining upon theretreating handful, they dispersed, the mantle ofnight protecting them against the foe, and the bloodof Fawdon stopping their hound. As the Englishapproached the .body of the traitor, Kierly andStephen mingled with the throng, and whenSir Gerald bowed to examine the body, Kierlypierced him to the heart with his dagger. The cryof treason was resounded, but, in the general con¬fusion, aided by the darkness of the night, the in¬trepid ^Scotsmen escaped. On the following morn¬ing, as Wallace was lamenting over the fate of hiscountry, an English leader rode up to him, and <Jemanded what he was doing there; but his onlyanswer was the unsheathing of his sword, and theEnmishman fell to rise no more. Wallace mountedOhis victim’s horse, rode across the plain, and theroad being everywhere beset with the English, whohad witnessed the deed, Wallace fearlessly dashed(through their ranks, slew 20 of them, and made hisescape. Arriving on the banks of the Forth, thoughwearied and bleeding, he dauntlessly plunged intothe river, and arrived at the house of a widow, anold acquaintance. Next day he sent to some of hisSfriends at Dunipace for money and other necessarieswhich he required, and instantly his uncle deli-iivered them in person. The meeting of Kierly andllStephen with their conquering hero can hemore easilyt conceived than described. The patriotic hand noweconsi-ted of Kierly, Stephen, the widow's two sons,12 TUU HISTORY OPand Wallace,who bent their wayto Sir John Graham’*at DundaftTieath, whose son, a brave and hardyyouth, volunteered to follow the gallant Wallace.Our hero declined his services for the present, butpromised to inform him when he had gathered suf¬ficient force to face the foe.Arriving at his nephew’s at Kilbank, he sent in¬formation to his numerous friends throughout thecountry, who speedily flocked around their chief¬tain’s standard. While he remained here he fre¬quently went in disguise to Lochmaben, where oneClifford, with insolence and cruelty, bore the chiefcommand. During one of his visits he was enragedat seeing the commander using his authority witha malicious intent to disgrace his countrymen; hedrew his well-tried sword, and slew the usurpingtyrant. The enemy assembling to the pursuit, heflew to inform his valiant followers of their approach.They hastened to the nearest thickets to preservethemselves as much as possible from the enemy’sfury. The armies met, and the Scots dealt destruc¬tion around, reducing the English to such a degree,that they were about giving way, when the gallantMoreland arrived with reinforcements to their aid.The Scots, being closely hemmed in, resolved to con¬quer or to die. The English, encouraged by thepresence of their warlike leader, renewed the com¬bat with equal fury. Wallace burst through thetumultuous crowd, and laid the gallant Morelandprostrate on the field, which caused the enemy to igive way on every side, and flee before the victo¬rious Scots. Scarcely had they enjoyed a moment ofcongratulation, when the enemy again appearedunder the haughty Graystock. The Scots, thoughwearied with the long contest, remained unshaken,and prepared again for the attack. At this eventfulmoment the young Graham appeared with an aimedretinue to support his friends; the English wererepulsed with dreadful slaughter, and retreated beforethe thrice victorious lw«d. The Scots, in the deadsIr William Wallace.]3bf uiglit, attacked aud toak tlie town; and, afterrefreshing themselves, reduced the fort, and tooktheir route towards the ra tle of Crawford, which,after slaying a great number of the enemy, they re¬duced to ashes. After several inconsiderable skir¬mishes, the little army dispersed for the winter,and agreed to repair to Lanark and its neighbour¬hood, and to assemble at their chieftain’s signal.Wallace repaired to Lanark, aud was soon marriedto his lovely bride, who told him of the brutal anddeceitful arts of Hazelrigg, the English leader, towin her. During the winter Wallace remained dis¬guised, and would often have delivered his wifefrom such an unwelcome visitor as Ilazelrigg, butprudence caused him to delay the fatal blow.The time had now arrived when he was to meet hisfollowers; and, after taking a farewell of his youngwife, whom he informed that he had a chosen handto conduct her to a place of safety, he proceededthrough the plain, and choosing an elevated situa¬tion, he raised his horn, and blew a shrill blast thatrent the air. He was soon surrounded by hi* fol¬lowers ; and after a short hut very impressive ad¬dress from their leader, they alarmed the enemywith their shouts, and swore to follow the immortalWallace. Alarmed at these sudden preparations,Ilazelrigg, with 1000 well-clad warriors, maichedto seek the daring foe; hut, being disappointed inthe pursuit, he returned to the town, where he wasinformed that the lady to whom he was paying hisaddresses was the lawful wife of Wallace, and thathe had been concealed in disguise several months,he repaired to her house, and stained his hands inher innocent blood. The doleful news were sooncommunicated to Wallace, which overwhelmed himand his followers for a moment with sorrow; hut asthe night was approaching, they resolved to marchinto the town, and surprise their enemies whiledrowned in sleep. They arrived without being ob¬served, and, having separated into two divisions,inn msxonv ovnrtacked the town in various parts. Wallace hav¬ing broken open the gate, the Scots rushed in, andmade dreadful havoc among the terror-stricken ene¬my. Sir John Graham, having the command ofthe second division, entered another part, and com-iiitted the dwellings of the English to the flames.■Wallace bathed his sword in Hazelriggs blood,while Graham dispatched Horn, the second in com¬mand. The conquerors, having reduced the town,encamped on a neighbouring plain.Edward, alarmed at the success of the patriots,collected a numerous army, and repaired to Biggar,in order to give them battle. The Scottish ami}',greatly augmented, with confidence proceeded tomeet the English. They were encamped on a wideextended plain, and Wallace took an advantageousposition on a neighbouring height, w'‘ose men onlyappeared as a handful when compared with theEnglish. Wallace addressed his trusty friends, and,painting the injuries of their ill-fated country inlively colours, exhorted them to seek redress uponthe author of all their calamities, who now stoodbeftft: them surrounded by his haughty troops.The battle commenced, and both armies fought withgreat bravery, hut the result was the defeat of theEnglish army, the shattered remains of which re¬turned with Edward to England. Worn out withdefeats, and driven from almost every strong post inthe kingdom, the English sued for peace, which wasconcluded at Rutherglen Church in February 129/ ;but it was of short duration, the English being sostrongly bent upon the conquest of Scotland.In June 1297 took place that memorable eventknown by the Barns of Ayr. The English had in¬vited the Scottish nobility and gentry in the westernparts to meet them for the purpose of friendly con¬ference upon the affairs of the nation, in some largebuddings, called the Barns of A yr. Many of tireScotch gentlemen in the neighbourhood attended,several of whom were accused of felony, condemned,Sill ftII,LIAM WALLACE.niict executed. Among those who were executeswas Sir Roland Crawford, sheriff of Ayr, and uno;vto Wallace. Those who escaped informed Wallaceof the dreadful catastrophe, who immediately as¬sembled 50 of his followers, entered Ayr in thenight, and set fire to the place when many 6f theEnglish were asleep ; the garrison issuing forth fellinto an ambush, and were put to the sword. Wal¬lace and his men instantly seized the foit, and thenmarched to Glasgow, attacked Lord Percy, and com¬pletely routed his forces. Being now' placed at ihvhead of a considerable army, he marched to Stirling,and took the castle. Argyle and Lorn, with theadjacent country, were soon in his possession ; Perth,with the neighbouring places, were soon recovered.Penetrating into Angus and Mearns, he tookdemolished the castles of Forfar, Brechin, and Mon¬trose. By an unexpected assault, he carried Dun-nottar, which he garrisoned. When he approachedAberdeen it was all in flames, the English havingset it on fire, being afraid of his coming.Learning that the English, with an army of40,000, among whom were many disaffected Scotch¬men, were approaching Stirling, Wallace stationedhis troops on an advantageous place upon a bill abovethe monastery of Cambuskenueth, on the north sideof the Forth. This river has no passable fords at thisplace, and the only passage was by a wooden bridge,nearly a mile above where the present bridge is situ¬ated. The EnMish scut two Dominican Friars toOWallace, to offer a pardon to idm and his men ifthey would lay down their arms. Their terms were,however, degrading and insulting both to the hon¬our and independence of the Scottish nation, andtherefore rejected with becoming disdain. Go,tell your officers," said the unflinching Wallace,“ that the Scots came not here to treat for peace,hut prepared for battle, and are determined to avengeour wrongs, and set our country free from the ironyoke of Edward. Let them but advance, andTOE HISTORY OF1Gtheir faces ive will tell so much.” Incensed at tinsbold and determined reply, the English exclaimed,seeing such a handful of men, “ They are all ourown ; let us instantly charge them ” Cressingham,with the greater part of his army, had crossed thebridge, which, as some writers affirm, either by thecontrivance of workmen, who, a little before, hadloosened the joints of the beams that they could notsustain a great weight, or, by the pressure of somany horse, foot, and carriages, without any stra¬tagem at all, gave way, and interrupted the marchr.f the English army. Before their ranks wereformed, the Scots instantly attacked those who hadpassed, and having slain their leader, drove therest back into the river with such havoc, that thewhole were put to the sword or perished in theriver. Alter this battle, Wallace immediately re¬turned to the besieging of castles, and in a shorttime so changed the fortune of war, that there re¬mained no Englishmen in Scotland, except as pri¬soners. This victory was so complete, and so im¬portant in its consequence?, that the Scots who haddeserted to the English submitted to Wallace, andhailed him as the deliverer of his country. Berwickand Roxburgh alone resisted, hut being desertedby their garrison, they soon threw open their gatesto our victorious hero. In this manner, in the shortspace of fourteen months after King John had beendeposed, his kingdom subdued, and constrained toacknowledge a foreign prince, did Wallace, with afew brave men, restore the nation io her ancientliberty and independence.The fields lying uncultivated, a famine followedthis devastation, and a plague followed the famine,whence a greater number of deaths, it was feared,would arise than from the war. Wallace, to alle¬viate these calamities as much as possible, ordered allthe young men capable of bearing arms to meet himmi a certain day, when he led them into England,thinking they would acquire health and -trength bySill WILLIAM WALLACE.17the exercise; and that by living in the enemy’scountry during the winter, provisions at home wouldbe spared. No one dared to oppose him v,hen lieentered England ; and having remained there fromthe 1st of November to the 1st of February, refresh¬ing his men with the forage of the enemy, and cu-I riehing them with their spoils, he returned homesurrounded with glory. This expedition, as it in¬creased the renown and authority of Wallace amongI the people, so it excited against him the envy of thej nobles; for his praises appeared to reproach the highand powerful chieftains either with cowardice tornot daring, or with treachery for being unwilling, toattempt what a gentleman in low circumstances, anddestitute of every advantage of fortune, had not onlybravely undertaken but successfully accomplished.With an army of 1500 cavalry and 20,000infantry, Edward marched against Wallace, who iathe mean time was collecting his chosen troops,rallied, and near Stanmore came in view of themighty monarch. Edward’s army appeared incredi¬bly numerous; the soldiers’ armour glittering, theofficers’ equipage rich and elegant, and the noise, oftheir drums pompous and terrible. Wallace com¬manded all, upon pain of death, to keep their ranks,to march with gravity, and to attempt nothingwithout his orders. The veteran and experiencedsoldiers of Edward had not arrived from Fiance,and perceiving the order, discipline, and formidableappearance of the enemy, every officer and man act¬ing the part of a hero, Edward durst not hazard hisI own glory, with an undisciplined militia, and there¬fore wisely retreated. The fame of this bloodless1 victory obtained over so powerful a king incensedb bis enemies much more bitterly, who now widelyreported that he was beginning openly to aspire to\ the Crown. The nobles, on hearing this report, be-b came indignant, particularly Bruce and Corny’, who,I belonging to the blood-royal, determined to uuder-I mine the authority of Wallace, Edward, aware ofTHE HISTORY 0"18their dispositions, raised a larg ■ army, and next Jsummer came to Falkirk, about 1 i miles from Stir- tling-. The Scottish arm}' was not far distant, and .sufficiently powerful, being 30,000 strong, if their ||leaders had been united among themselves. But !there were three commanders,—John Comyn, John jStewart, and William Wallace; and when the armywas drawn out in three lines in older of battle, acontention arose who should lead the first lineagainst the enemy. While no one would yield tothe other, the English, with their banners unfurled,advanced rapidly towards them. Comyn and hismen retreated without attempting to fight. Sir JohnStewart and his vassals fought bravely, and diedhonourably. Unable to rescue Stewart or to with¬stand the enemy, and the Earl of Garrick havingnearly surrounded him, Wallace retreated, andpassed the small river Carron, which the enemydurst not pass in his presence. By this dexterous :manoeuvre, he not only saved his own men, but alsothose of Stewart who fled to him, and by keepinghimself in the rear, with his eve fixed on those whopursued, he cut several of them off, particularly oneFrere Brian Jay, a Knight Templar, upon whom heturned, and slew in sight of the victorious army.This intrepid and bold action taught others to keep ■at a respectable distance. During the pursuit, whileWallace and Bruce stood on different sides of thewater of Carron, Bruce addressed him, saying, “ Iam greatly surprised, Sir William, that you shouldever entertain the idea of attaining the ScottishCrown.” “No,” interrupted Wallace, “my thoughts :never soared so high : i only mean to deliver mycountry from oppression and slavery, and support acause which you have abandoned. But pause in time;if you have but the heart, you may win a crown withglory, and wear it with justice. I can do neither ;but this I will do, I will live and die a free-bornsubject.” This speech made a deep impression up¬on the mind of Bruce, The conference was sud-SIR WILLIAM WALLACE. 19denly interrupted by tlie approach of a hostile bodyof horse.The number of English present at the engage¬ment is stated at 90,000 men, while the Scottisharmy did not amount to 30,000. The loss on bothsides was very great. Amongst the slain on theScottish side none was more sincerely mourned thanSir John Graham, the bosom-friend of Wallace,who, giving way to his usual gallantry, had advancedtoo far, was surrounded, and slain. Wallace, havingwithdrawn his troops to a place of safety, returned tothe battle-field in search of his beloved friend, whomhe passionately loved ; and when he found him, helifted him in his arms, and gave vent to his feelings.On July 22, 1298, was this fatal battle fought;and in the churchyard of Falkirk was Sir JohnGraham buried, a tombstone still marking the place.Wallace, reflecting upon the conversation whichhe had with Bruce, in which he unjustly chargedhim with an attempt upon the Crown, and in order,if possible to unite the jarring nobles, to convincethem and all future ages that he had no sinister de¬signs upon the Crown, which belonged to another, hecalled an assembly of the barons and other noblemenin the kingdom at Perth, and there resigned bothhis important trust as guardian of the kingdom andhis chief command of the army. No part of Wallace’shistory is more difficult to trace than after he relin¬quished his public command. Some suppose thathe retired to France after the memorable battle oflioslin. There was at that period a strong alliancebetween France and Scotland ; and it is reportedthat Philip the Fair of France, allured by the fameof our hero, invited Wallace to the French Court.He sailed, according to report, from Kirkcudbrightwith 50 of his faithful followers, and, in the courseof the voyage, felb in with Bed River the pirate,whom he captured by a combination of valour andstratagem. Wallace obtained Longueville’s, whichwas the nirate’s true name, iinrdnn from the Frenchtii v : wr20King, and soon returned to his native land. Hav¬ing landed at Montrose with his brave companions,accompanied by Longueville, who would never de¬part from him, they were joined by Sir John Ramsay,Ruthven, Bisset, and others, all of whom determinedunder his banner to deliver their country or fall inthe vigorous attempt. While lying in ambush inthe vicinity of Pert!), it fortunately happened thatsix English servants came forth from the town withempty carts to convey hay into the tow n. Instantlyslaying the servants, six of them were arrayed intheir upper garments, the carts were loaded, and asmany as possible lodged themselves among the hay,and the rest were placed in ambush. As soon asthey entered the town, Wallace slew the porter, andsecured an entrance for his men, who spread de¬struction among the English, and so terrified theremainder, that the governor. Sir John Stewart, fledby the opposite gate to the wood of Methven. Onehundred took refuge in the church, but were slain.By this successful adventure, Wallace acquiredmuch booty and a military station of vast importanceto future conquests. They now proceeded towardsFife, and reduced the several towns and castles inthat populous country. A party of the English,however, took shelter in Lochleven Castle, andWallace, determining to dislodge them, selectedeighteen of his bravest men, and marched towardsit during the darkness of the night. He stripped,tied his sword about his neck, and swam over tothe isle, cut the rope of their boat, brought it over,and conveyed his men in safety to the castle, whichhe took, and spared none hut the women and chil¬dren. Returning to Perth he was informed thathis uncle wms imprisoned by one Thomas Weir, acruel English captain, who commanded 100 menat Perth. Wallace sent a trusty messenger to ex¬plore the Tay to discover some mode of crossing,ana lorlunately met with a fisherman, who readilyembarked *n the cause when he knew he belongedMR WILLIAM WALLACE.21to Wallace, and resolved to liberate his uncle. Henot only conveyed them over in his boat, but con¬ducted them to Airthhill, a place of strength, andthen over a small bridge to Weir’s house, whomWallace immediately dispatched at a blow, whilehis men slew all the rest. '1 hey hastened to thecave, where Wallace’s uncle was confined and boundin fetters, whom they instantly released.Wallace next marched to Dumbarton in the night,and called upon a widow whom he knew, who re¬ceived him and his men with great kindness, andconcealed them in a barn with the greatest secrecy.:She presented .her nine sons, who were young andstrong, to Wallace to increase his men; and, atWallace’s request, she marked all the doors wherethe English were lodged, and commencing with anEnglish captain, who, w ith his mates, were carousingin a public-house, he set on fire all the houses wherethe English were quartered, and Hud to Dumbartoncave before day. They next bent their way toKoseneath Castle, and having slain more than 80 ofthe English, who were returning from a wedding,they entered the castle with those who escaped, slewevery Englishman found in it, and set fire to thecastle. The dawn of returning prosperity broughtfriends around the illustrious hero. »Sir WilliamDouglas, who had been constrained to marry anEnglish lady and to submit to Edward, hearing thatWallace was again in the field and likely to rescueScot’and, be, by the means of a trusty man of thename of Dickson, took Sanquhar by stratagem, andput every man to the sword. Being inclosed in thecastle, he dispatched Dickson to Wallace, to entreatbis speedy relief. Wallace now brgan his marchSouth, and ent off Revindale, an English captain,who, with 200 men, were in the vicinity of Kilsyth.||[n the same route he burnt the towns of Linlith-f?ow, Dalkeith, and Newcastle, expelling the EnglishI wherever he came. The friends of Wallace now[jlgan daily to increase j among whom were the re-THE HISTORY OP22noivncd Lauder and Seaton, who, during the daysof’ usurpation had fortified themselves in the Bass,upon the intelligence of Wallace’s success issuedforth from their retreat, burned North Berwick, andjoined Wallace, who proceeded to Peebles, wherehe was reinforced by the brave Hugh Hay with 50and Rutherford with 00 men. Just at this time,Dickson, who was dispatched by Sir William Douglasfrom Sanquhar to request the speedy assistance otWall ace, arrived, and informed him of the imminentdanger of his master. Wallace, without a moment’sdelay, marched to his aid ; the English, who besiegedSanquhar Castle, when they heard of his coming, fledwith all possible speed. Being informed of theirroute, he, with 300 horsemen, leaving Earl Malcolm,who had joined him, to come up with the remainingpart of the army, came up with the enemy at Close-burn, and routed them. Upon the appearance ofMalcolm, the flight of the English became universal,while the Scots pursued and slew all who came intheir way.- During the long pursuit, the horsesfailed through fatigue; the men pursued like lionson foot. While Wallace was thus yielding his swordin defence of his native country, and rapidly effect¬ing her deliverance, Edward, convinced of the diffi¬culty, if not the impossibility, of conquering Wallaceby the sword, had recourse,to other measures. Inthis attempt he employed every man in his power,and every person in Ids influence ; nor did he doubtbut those measures, and bribes, and promises, andhonours, which gained the services and submissionof others, would also, in time, prove successful withWallace. He accordingly courted Wallace wiflijlarge and magnificent promises of honour and wealth,places and pension, but all ia vain. Ilis constantreply to bis friends and the emissaries of Edwardwho dared to address him on the subject, was, “ That ihe owed his life to, and would willingly lay it down1for, his country ; that should all Scotchmen butm  i:—„ ,ic r i?—i 1 1.   :SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.23iwouTrl; nor Avould he give oic i ience, or yh Id alle¬giance- to any power, except to the King of Scotland,jhis rinhtful sovereign.” The noble virtue of an in-dividual is severely matched with the base intriguejof a powerful monarch. Sir John Monteith, whosemaine deserves only a place among the basest of thehuman race, proved the traitor. Wallace having^placed the most unbounded confidence in this man,me, the perfidious villain, conducted a party of Eng¬lishmen to the place of his lonely retreat at Eobroy-gtou, about three miles north-west of Glasgow, whileour hero was accompanied by only his faithful friendKarle and a young man related to Monteith.At the dead hour of midnight, while the two un¬daunted heroes la)' fast asleep^this young traitor,whose turn it was to watch, caiitio'usly removed thebugle from the neck of Wallace, and conveyed it,along with his arms, through an aperture of themall; then slowly opening the door,-two men-atarms silently entered, and, seizing - upon Kurle,hurried him from the apartment. Wallace awoke(with the noise, hut finding himself armless and sur¬rounded by, a great number of tbe enemy, lie wasinduced, through a stratagem on Monteitb’s part, toaccompany him as a prisoner to Dumbarton, where,he said, he would undertake for the safety of hisperson on the morrow. Next day, however, noMonteith appeared to exert his influence to preventthe hero being carried from the fortress.Thus the brave, the generous, the disinteresteddeliverer of his country was seized, and afterwardsconveyed to London. As he passed throughEngland, great multitudes of men, women, andchildren assembled from all quarters to gaze on theillustrious prisoner. Arriving in London, he wasI conducted to the house of William Delect, in Fen-church Street. The day following, August 23, 13(k'>,he was brought on horseback to Westminster, ac¬companied by several knights, the mayor, sheriffs,_1J  —Til   * j 1 O ;24 THE HISTORY UF SIR WILLIAM WALLkfiE.lienee and rank, in presence of all of whom he warplaced on the south bench of the great hall; andreither because they wished the people to believethat he had aspired to the Crown of Scotland, or tliartit was reported that he said he deserved to wear scrown there, they crowned him in derision withlaurel, while Sir Peter Malorie, the chief-justice,impeached him with high treason. Wallace boldlyreplied, “ That a traitor he never was, nor could beto the King of England.” 1 he burning of towns,storming of castles, killing the English, and othersof a similar nature, he frankly acknowledged. Theseheroic virtues were declared capital crimes; andthough the prisoner had never acknowledged nonsubmitted to the laws of England, yet he was tried bythem, and unjustly condemned to be hanged, drawn,and quartered, and while alive, to have his bowelscut out, which was accordingly done with the ut¬most cruelty and barbarity'. His head was fixed onLondon Bridge, and the four quarters of his bodywere placed on the gates of as many of the principalcities of his native country'. Such was th,e end ofta man by far the most pre-eminent in the times injwhich he lived; who, for greatness of soul in under¬taking, and wisdom and fortitude in conducting!perilous enterprises, may be compared with themost illustrious leaders of antiquity. In love to hiscountry, inferior to none of the most eminent an¬cient patriots; amid the general slavery, he stoodalone unsubdued and free; and neither could re¬wards induce nor terrors force him to desert thepublic cause which he had once undertaken ; andhis death was the more grievous, because, uncon-quered by bis enemies, lie fell, betrayed by those Iwhom he least suspected. But, although Edwardprocured the death of the valorous Wallace, Scot- ■land was not deserted : Bruce assumed the reins ofgovernment, and restored her to her former inde- ■pendence.— f See Brt/done’s History of King RobeRruce^lti^ ; '