THECOMICAL HISTORYYemeni j/.omooOF THEKing &the CoblerCONTAININGThe Entertaining and Merry Tricks, and DrollFrolics, played by the Cobler.—How he gotacquainted with the King, became a great man,and lived at Court ever after.3C9T" Xj riig/JW tISlitOJfllny ni99Uli(i iIInaqqid noiloc^rnDin^ggilxI/ujsfiO fjnxit.xli ni eatlio gnolnqoq bnxi Js 313, ni■^ijQfiiijtisrto h’ FALKIRKf bfffj { JfLtfffrinted for the booksellers.amYflOT8IHTS&OIMGDCOMICAL HIS TOR V.: I . :M r f ^ OF THEKINO AND THE COBLER.How King Henry VIII u?ed to visitthe watches in the city*, and how hebecame acquainted with a merry jo¬vial Co bier.It was the custom of King Henrythe Eight to w^Ik late in the nightinto the city disguised, to observe andtake notice how the constables andwatch performed their duty, not onlyin guarding the city gates, but also indiligently watching the inner parts ofthe city, that so they might, in a greatmeasure, prevent those disturbancesand casualities whicli too often happenin great and populous cities in thenight j and this-he did oftentimes,.ajiajjspsiooa snr hot aariuHT3witheut tliis least diseqvery who he was,,returning home to Whitehall early inthe morning.jcorhol ot aide ylhif.fl ■oririad in;;-! srITNow, op *his return home throughthe Strand, |ie took notice of a certaincobler who was constantly up atworfe*whistling and singing everyThe king was resolved to see him, andbe acquainted with him, in order.’towhiqh he immediately knocks the heeloff’ids shoe by hitting,it agaiqsfe a stpne#and having so done, he bounced at/tj!}^cobler’s stall.bio riB bswoitod gnia oriJ Jfuit diiWWho’s there ? crie^ the cobler. ;atiurid !>iuow leldoo txij g; i >b .nni adlHere’s one, cries the king. Withthat .the cobler; opened the stall door,andr/the king a^ked him if he could putthe heel on his shoe.*od .’jni/BS ,i>nid silt ot isTp ti eshtBStYes, that I. can, says the cohler;Home in, honest fellow, and sit theedown by me, and I will do it foj? ^heestraight, the cobler scrapping his awls4and old shoes to one side to make roomfor the king to sit down..grtifitom ad}The king being hardly able to forbearlaughing at the kindness of the cobler,asked him if there was not a househard by that sold a cup of ale, and thepeople up ?Yes, said the cobler, there is an innover the way, where I believe the folksare up, for the carriers go from thencevery early-in the morning.With that the king borrowed an oldshoe of the cobler, and went over tothe inn, desiring the cobler would bringhis shoe to him thither as soon he ashad put on the heel again. The coblerpromised he would ; so making whathaste he could to put on the heel, hecarries it over to the king, saying, ho¬nest blade, here is thy shoe again, and 1warrant thee it will not come off insuch a haste. *glv/s Rid gniqqsioa odi ,iugi*>i3a5Very well, sajs the king, what mustyou have for your pains ?A couple of pence, replied the cobler.Well, said the king, seeing thou artan honest merry fellow, there is a tes¬ter for thee ; come, sit down by me, Iwill drink a full pot with thee ; come,here’s a good health to the king.With all my heart, said the cobler,I’ll pledge thee were it in w'ater,So the cobler sat down by the kingand was very merry, and drank oft'hisliquor very freely ; he likewise sungsome of his merry songs and catches,whereat the king laughed heartily, andwas very jocund and pleasant with thecobler, telling him withal that his namewas Harry i udor, that he belonged tothe court, and that if he would comeand see him there, he would makehim very welcome, because he was amerry companion, and charged him not6to forget his rame, and to ask any onefor him about the court, and they wouldsoon bring him to him ; for, said theIcing, I am very well known there.Now the cobler little dreamt that hewas the king that spake to him, muchless that the king’s name was HarryTudor. Therefore, with a great dealof confidence, he stands up and puts oil'his hat, makes two or three scrapeswith his foot, and gives the king manythanks, abo telling him that ho wasone of the most honest fellows he evermet with in all his life time, and al¬though he never had been at court, yethe should not be long before he wouldmake a holy day to come and see him.Whereupon the kin^g, paying forwhat they had drunk, would have takenhis leave of the cobler ; but he, not be¬ing willing to part with him, took holdof his hand, and said, By my faith youmust not go, you shall not go, you shallfirst go and see my poor habitation, l7have there a tub of good brown ale thatwas never tapped yet, and yon must goand taste it, for you are the most ho¬nest blade I ever met withal, and I lovean honest merry companion with allmy heart.CHAP. II.■ n\i •/'<;>! ilu [O »idNote the Cobler entertained the King inhis cellart and of the disturbance theyhad like to have had by his xcife Joan.■ •' ’' (loin//So the cobler took the king vuthhim over the way, where he had his cel- :lar adjoining the stall, which was hand¬somely and neatly furnished fora manof his profession. Into the cellar hetook the king ; there, said he, sit down,}ou are welcome ; but I must desireyou to speak softly, for fear of wakingmy wife Joan, who lies hard by, (shew¬ing the king a close bed macie neatlyup at onecorner of the cellar, much likea closet,'I for if she shoubPwake shewill make our ears ring again.8At which speech of’the co’ole/s thekihg laughed, and told him he wouldbe mindful and follow his directions.ovol I bnij .Tiufjiw j ra a a vs 1 si dWhereupon the cobier kindled up afire, and fetched out a brown loaf, fromwhich he cut a lusty toast, which hesat baking at the fire ; then he broughtout his Chesire cheese. Now, says he,there is as much fellowship in eating asin drinking.Which made the king' admire thehonest freedom of the cooler. So hav¬ing eaten a bit, the cohler began, Ahealth to all true hearts and merrycompanions; at which the king smiled,saving, Friend, I’ll pledge thee.rn this manner they ate and dranktogether till it was almost break ofday; the cobler being very free, of hisliquor, and delighting the king witnseveral of his old stories, insomuchthat he was highly pleased with themanner of his entertainment; when,>*vr( 9on a sudden, the cobler’s wife Joan be¬gan to awake. I’faith, says the cobler,you must be gone, my wife Joan beginsto grumble, she’ll awake presently, andI would not for half the shoes in myshop she should find you here.,0i' ;! o::'..'' < (f . hilj r. nooa a/j T'oVlThen taking the king by the hand,be led him up the stairs, saying, Fare¬well honest friend, it shan’t be longbefore I make a holyday to come andsee thee at court.Thou shall be kindly welcome, re¬plied the kin£\' I l, y, ■ ' . '.■So they parted the king on his wayto Whitehall, and the cobler to biscellar, and there putting all tilings torights before his wife JoanfjrgQt up,he went to work again, whistling an 1singing as merry as he used to be, beingmuch satisfied that lie happened on sogood and jovial a companion, still jdeafi -mg himself in his thoughts how merrylie should be when he came to court.10^oloVi CHAP. lil^Lbua £ no,isJdoo sill e*{' • j’jifcT • . ajlew^of nagHow the Co bier 'prepared himself to go toCourt, and hozo he was set out in thebest manner by his wife Joan..ei'id uo ( bnft oluoiie ads qoiifcNow as soon as the kins; came home,he sent out orders about the court,that if any one inquired for him bythe name of Harry Tudor, they shouldimmediately bring him before him,whatever he was, without any fartherexamination.The colder thought every day amonth till he had been at court to seehis new acquaintance, and was troub¬led how he should get leave of his wifeJoan, for he could not get without herknowledge, by reason he did resolve tomake himself as fine as he could, forhis wife always keeped the keys o*' hisholyday clothes ; whereupon one even¬ing, as they sat at supper finding herin a very good humour, he began to layopen his mind to her, telling her the11whole story of their acquaintance, re¬peating it over and over a^ain, that hewas the most honest fellow that everhe met withal. Husband, quoth she,because you have been so ingenious asto tell me the whole truth, i will giveyou leave to make a holyday, for thisonce you shall go to court, and I willmake you as fine as I can.So it was agreed that be should goto court the next day ; whereuponJoan rose betime the next, morningto brush up her husband’s holydayclothes, and made him as fine as shecould. She washed and ironed thelace-band, and made his shoes shinethat he might see his face in them ;having done this she mule her hus¬band rise and pull off his shirt. Thenshe washed him with warm water fromhead to foot, putting on him a cleanshirt; afterwards she dressed him in hisholyday clothes, pinning- his laced bandin prim.\r 1 t12-91 *9301*1 CHAP. iVio V'U,^ ^fori7/eri oiA^B isvo Lns 'ioyoii ^.niifisqThe Cobler's reception at Court, with themanner of his behaviour before the King.The Cobler being thus set forth, hestrutted through the street like a crowin a gutter, thinking himself as fine asthe best of them all.In this manner be came to the court,staring on this body and that bodyas he walked up and down, and notknowing how to ask for Harry Tudor.At last he espied one, as he thought, inthe habit of a servant-man, to whomhe made this adress, saying,^ U Jfi, ll \ ’ H1 tiix' f .3 Jii till Oil J£li)Dost thou hear, honest fellow, doyou know one Harry Tudor, who be¬longs to the court.Yes, said the man, follow me, andI will bring you to him.. di ; ::iwith that he had him presently up13into the guard chamber, telling one ofthe yeomen of the guard there was onethat inquired for Harry Tudor..midReplied the yeoman ; I know himvery well; if you please to go alongwith me, Til bring you to him immedhately. ■/ • f.'lohuT' vr?j;ii ini asiiupaiSo the cobler followed the yeoman,admiring very much the prodigiousfinery of the rooms which he carriedhim through. He thought within him¬self, that the yeoman was mistaken inthe person whom he inquired for ; for,said he, he whom I look for is a plain,merry, honest, fellow, his name is Har¬ry Tudor ; we drank two pots togethernot long since. I suppose he may be¬long to some lord or other about thecourt.I tell you, friend, replied the yeoman,I know him very well, do you but fol¬low me, and 1 shall bring you to himuSo going forward, he came into theroom where the king was accompaniedby several of his nobles, who attendedhim.mid worrjJ I ; n :-oo( erfj boilqoJIAs soon as the yeomen had put upby the arras, he spoke aloud, May itplease your Majesty, here is one thatinquires for Harry Tudor.r:‘ mo ’/ ' • / >;h : : 9;i. o'rThe coblcr hearing this, thought hehad committed no less than treason :Therefore he up vvitli his heels and ranfor it: but not being acquainted withthe several turnings and rooms throughwhich he came, he was soon overtakenand brought before the king, whom thecobler little thought to be the personbe inquired after, therefore in a trem¬bling condition, he fell down on hisknees, saying,May it please your Grace, may itplease your Highness, 1 am a poor cob¬ier, who inquired for one Harry Tudor,who is a very honest fellow, 1 mendeduthe heel of his shoe not long since, andfol' Which he paid me nobly, and gaveme two pots to boot: but I had himafterwards to my cellar, where we drankpart of a cup of nappy ale, and werevery merry, till my Wife Joan beganto grumble, which put an end to outmerriment, for that time, but I told himI would come to the court and see him,as soon as conveniently I could.-!• , Vi r- 30 ■ JOi?Well, said the king, don’t be troub¬led, do you know this honest fellowagain, if yon could see him.j ’ ; , , fThe cobler replied, Yes, that I doamong a thousand.'t'ff tier; // , / < : •.^cooiov/Tlien said the king, Stand up, and benot afraid, but look well about you,peradventnre you may find the fellowin this companyt- !Whereupon the cobler arose, andlooked wishfully upon the king and therest of the nobles, hut it was to little16or no purpose: for though he saw some¬thing in the king’s face which hethought he had seen befoie, yet hecould not imagine him to be HarryTudor, whose heel of In’s shoe he hadHanded, and who had been so merrywith him at the inn, ami at his owncellar. j «ocniJ,rmri 9^3 hnn tiuoD ^ili oj amoo bhiow 'He therefore told the king he didnot expect to find Harry Tudor a-mong such fine folks as. he saw there,but that the peison he looked for wasa plain honest, and true hearted fellow.Adding withal, that he was sure thatdid Harry fudor but know that he wascome to court, he would make him verywelcome : for, says the cobler, when weparted, he charged me to come to courtsoon and see him, which I promised Iwould, and accordingly l have made aholyday on purpose to have a glass withhim.lift ' 0 ■At which speech of the cobler’s thekimg- had much ado to foibear laughing17out, but keeping his countenance assteady as he could before the cobler,lie spoke to the yeoman of the guard.Here, said he, take this honest coblerdown into my cellar, and let him drink,my health ; and 1 will «ive orders thatHarry Tudor shall come to him pre¬sently.Sb a way they went, the cobler beingfit to leap out of his skin for joy, notonly that he had come off so well, butthat he should see hi^friend Harry Tudori'Ovhe . ■; 'I iirrfl inei . :v... ' ■• ; ' CHAP. V. •'r': - •, j f?!; i .. y/ jO;r:The Cobler's entertnhimenl in the King'sCellar.oy .rs r * r»f rr n r* ' - ’f c\ m c r• c,; { * 1 r.* f: ITI he cobler had not been long in theking’s cellar, before the king came tohim in the same habit that he had ohwhen the cobler mended his shoe;whereupon the cobler knew him im¬mediately, and ran and kissed him saying18Honest Harry, I have made an holy-day on purpose to see you, but I hadmuch ado to ^et leave ofmy wife Joan,who was loath to loose so much timefrom my work ; but I was resolved fosee you, and therefore I made myselfas fine as L could. But FH tell thee,Harry, when I came to court I was in apeck of troubles how to find you out ;but at last 1 met with a man who toldme he knew you very well, and that hewould bring me to you, but instead ofdoingso, he brought me before the king,which almost frightened me out of myseven senses ; but faith I’m resolved tobe merry with yon now, since I havemet you at last.Ay, that we shall, replied the king,we shall be as merry as princes.Now after the colder had drunk aboutfour or five good healths, be began tobe merry, & fell a-singing his old songsand catches, which pleased the kingvery much, & made him laugh heartily.19When on a sudden several of thenobles came into the cel ar, extraordi¬nary rich in apparel, and all stood un¬covered before Harry 1 udor, which putthe cobler into great amazement atfirst, but presently recovering himself,lie looked more wishfully upon HarryTudor, and soon knowing him to bethe king, whom he saw in the presencechamber, though in another habit, hei mn^etllately fell upon his knces^saying,May it please your Grace, may itplease your Highness, I am a poor ho¬nest cobler, and mean no harm.k V Jb JL J* fc-JB.No, no, said the king, nor shall re¬ceive any here, I assure you.He commanded him therefore to rise,and be as merry as he was before ; andthough he knew him to he tne king,yet he should use the same freedomwith him as he did before, when 'hemended the heel of his shoe.(.tobnT vrua; T tl oui-myil)20This kind speech of the king’s, andthree or four glasses of wine, made thecobler be in as good humour as before,telling the king several of hisokl stories,and singing some of his best songs, verymuch to the satisfaction of the king andall his nobles;THECGBLER’S SONGIX THEKING’S CELLAR.Come let us drink the other pot,Our sorrows to confound ;We’ll laugh and sing before the King,So let his healti) go round ;For I am bold as bold can be.No colder e’er was ruder;Then here, good fellow, here’s to thee,(RemembTing- Harry Tudor.)21When I‘m at work within my stall,Upon him I will think ;His kindness I to mind will call,Whene’er I eat or drink ;His kindness was to me so great,The like was never known, rn i ’His kindness 1 shall still repeat, 'nor::And so shall my wife Joan.10 c I ;;u Jni;d 779'/ Si'iI’ll laugh, when I sit in my stall, • ;And merrily will sing,That I with my poor last and awl,Am fellow with the king.But it is more I must confess,That I at first did know.But Harry Tudor ne’ertheless,Resolves it shall be so..baaisslq oil i vsmVrfwAnd now farewell unto Whitehall,I homeward must retire,To sing and whistle in my stalh 03r'My Joan will me desire :I do but think how she shall l^ugh,When she hears of this thing,That he that drank her nut-brown ale,Was England’s Royal King,.jj, CHAP, VI. M; IW'ff no JHow the Cobler hecame a Caurtkvii >loiif 10 jk • : ,Sns .7Novt the king consideun# the pleasanthumour o£ the cohler, how innocentlymerry he was, and free from auiy de¬sign ; that he. was. a person that labour¬ed very hard, and took a gieat deal ofpains,for a small livelihood, was pleas¬ed, out of his princely grace # favour,to allow him a liberal annuity of fortymerksayear, foi the better support ofhis jolly humour, and the maintenanceof his wife Joan, and that he should beadmitted one of his courtiers, and thathe might have the freedom of his cellarwhenever he pleased..'huh. .ill7/ otiiu ['. y:'- ■■ ; von i rcA.Which hein^ so much beyond ex¬pectation, did highly exalt the cobler’shumour, much to the satisfactiqn ofth© kin^. . k wod /inidl Jud ob Itguid) eidi V* yi: >il arh uddW,Ser after a great many legs andscrapes, he .rfeturoed home to bis wife28Joan, with the joyful news of his recep¬tion at court j which so well pleasedher, that she did nofesthiiik much, atthe great pains she took in decking him<or the journey. *aora euoiJ »dbt■; . iJo■: on J'mso O-toWn U 'V-ANECDOTE OF CHARLES II.When Charles II was on a progressthrough his dominions, he was waitedupon by the magistracy of a certaincity in the north of England. TheMayor had prepared with no little studya splendid oration for so memorable anoccasion. Kneeling down to deliver hisaddressthe worthy Magistrate (who wasexcessively fat)commenced by afeu de¬joy of rather a singular nature: whetherhe deemed an expression of loyalty tan¬tamount to a royal salute of ihe presentday, history is silent: certain it is, hefelt greatly embarrassed, and hunderedhis oration most woefully. “I have,pleaseyour Majesty, begun atthewrongend” criedthe good Mayor, endeavour-ing.do apologize for the incoherency ofhis speech. “So I remarked,*’ repliedthe facetious monarch, “but I fear the"ustake can’t now be corrected:—Rise, Sir Walter Cannon.”.ii asjji/.iip Trocm^ASBOigOiq <3 m ?:::i II asfi;;(ft)IIWijsJ.ie-// ecw.s.i ,edoini 10b ;id f fjointnifij|?9o b io y; .n ■-.’,) . ! r.oriuaflT ,b ji lo dhop 9,’* fi vJi:>FINIS.nfi slda.for:: jrn.oa idl nojirso ; ' nolqgj:aid lavilob pi nv/bh nnua^i)! jrota.-.ooo«bw odw) 9jVijV.i0.fiM vdiio//9rfjgJi9ibbr,y.d I) v 911 -j (r: f a a o (j u i vljviggvDXOjadiarlv/;-u ... /; -to !*/ri‘io\vo\-nnJ \})In\5 VI) n.-'g^i'jxa'ns f mvob ailinaeDiq 9.! )'lon* oi fmjonici9:1 ,gi ii niiji 09 v: in li ; ' vioteirl ,VBhbsisbnnd bnu .bv'; . nadmo VliBeig ilslt97i3fl 1“ .vUulp'-v/ Jcorrt noiifiio'fcid