Faith's Plea upon God's Coven ant,/AS E R M O NPREACHEDv t,>* ’’ i ' •ub& •’ -■ *<--^6 t i* *,r'• *^ On a Preparation-day before defpenfina theSacrament of the Lord’s Supper, at King-laflie, upon Pf^lm Ixxiv. 20. Have rcjpeaunto the Covenant.s% By the late Reverend’ r$r. RALPH E R S K 1 N E,Minifter of the Gofpei at Dunfermline*THE SIXTH EDITION,^ OF SCOTUVD )GLASGOW:&Printed' fay JOHN ROBERTSONM D’G C L X X I I„/( 2 )Faith’s Plea upon God’s Covenant.P(alm Ixxiv. 20. Have refpeft unto the CovenantSec.TH E Pfalmift, in pleading for the church and peopleof God, and that he would appear for them againlttheir enemies, ufes fevera! arguments: particularly,in the dole of the preceeding verfe, there is fomething hepleads God may not Forget, ‘ Forget not the congregationof thy poor for ever and the rather he^ifes this argumentbecaufe he had faid, Pfal. ix. 14. 4 The needy fhall not beforgotten; the expedation of the poor lliall not perilh forever.’ There is, in this verfe, fomething he pleads, thatGod may Remember and have regard unto, ‘ have refpedunto the covenant.’ Thou hall brought us into covenant•with thee, might he lay, and though we are unworthy tobe refpeded, yet 4 have refped unto the covenant of pro-mife.’ When God delivers his people, it is in remembranceof his covenant. Lev. xxvi. 42. ‘ Then will I remembermy covenant with Abraham, Ifaac and Jacob; and l willremember the land.’ We cannot exped he will rememberus, till he remember his covenant : hence, therefore, wepropofe to iliuftrate the following truth.Doer. “ That one of Faith’s llrong pleas with God, is,** That he would have refped to the covenant.”If we would deal with God for mercy, or plead with himfor favour, or look to him for any good at this occaftcn,let us exped it only upon this ground, the refped he hath10 the covenant, and plead upon this argument.The method we would obfetve, as the Lord (hall aflifl,for briefly handling this fubjed, (hall be the following.I Shew what Covenant it is he will have a refped to.II. What it is for God to have a refped to the covenant.III. What it is irr the covenant he hath a reiped to.IV. What kind of refped he ha'th to it.V. Why hj hath refped to it, and fo why it is a fuita-b!e plea and argument in fuing for mercy.• VI. Make fome application of the whole.I, We are then full to Ihew what covenant it is he willhave a refped to The covenant here fpoken of is the co¬venant of grace and promife, made in Chrilt Jefus 4 beforethe world began,’ and publilhcd in this gofpel to finners.C 3 )Jer. 32. 39. 40. ‘ And I will give them one heart and oneway, that they may fear me for ever, for the good of them,and of their children after them. And I will make an e-, verlafting covenant with them, that 1 will not turn awayfrom them to do them good; but I will put my fear in theirhearts, that they (hall not depart from me. F.zek. 36. 26.A new heart alfo will I give you, and a new Ipirit will Iput within you ; and I will take away the (iony heart outof your flefn, &c. Jer. 31 33. But this ftiall be the cove¬nant that I will make with the houfe of Ifrael, after thofedays, faith the Lord, 1 will put my law in their inward! parts, and write it in their hearts, and I will be their God;and they (hall be my people.’ And in Pfaim 89. through¬out. It is called a covenant of Grace ; becaufe grace isthe beginning and the end, the foundation and top-doneof it ; even grace reigning thro’ righteoufnefs.—It is cal¬led a covenant of Mercy; becaufe therein mercy to the1 miferable is proclaimed thro’ jullice fatisfying blood ; forthere ‘ mercy and truth met together;’ and all ‘ the furemercies of David’ are conveyed thereby- It is called a co¬venant of Peace and Reconciliation ; becaufe it both treatsof peace with God, and makes it good. It is called a co¬venant of Promife ; becaufe it lies in promifes with refe-| rence to us; and thefe to be accomplifhcd upon the condi¬tion already fulfilled in Chrifl’s obedience and fatisfa£ion;and becaufe therein the faithfulnefs of God is pledged, formaking out all the promifes to believers, and the childrenof promife. If is called a covenant of Salt; becaufe it isan 'iicorruptible word, ‘ an everlalting covenant, well or¬dered in all things and fure.’ In a word it is a covenantof Help to poor, helplefs (inner?, faying, ‘ 1 have laid helpupon one that is mighty. O ifrael, thou halt delfroved thy-felf, jut in me is thy help.’ It is a covenant of Pardon tothe guilty, faying, ‘ I, even 1, am he that biotteth out thytranfgrcflions for mine own fake, and I will not rememberthy fins.’ It is a covenant of Supply to the needy, faying,‘ When the poor and needy water, and there is none,and their tongue faiieth for third, I, the Lord, will hearthem, I, the God of Ifrael will not forfake them.’ It isa covenant of Gifts wherein grace and glory are freely gi¬ven; and in the dilpenfation thereof, God fays, come, andtake all freely, himlelf, his Chrid, his Spirit, and all, Rev.22. 17. I fa. 55. x.II. We are to fnew what it is for God to have refpeftto the covenant. iI. God hath refpeft to the covenant when he remembersit, and fo remembers us, as in that forecited, Lev. 26. 42.‘ I will remember my covenant, apd then will 1 rememberthe land.’ This Pfal. icg. 5. ‘ He hath given meat to themthat fear him.’ Why, he will ever be mindful of his co¬venant, If he cortie to give us -meat to feed our fouls atthis occafion, the ground will he, he will be ipindlul ofhis covenant, mindful of his promife.8. God may befaid to haye refpedl to his covenant, whenhe regard* it. He hath no reafon to have refpeCl or regardto us, but he fees reafon to have a regard to his covenant;he puts honour upon it. for reafon' that I lhall afterwards{hew, only I lhali lay here, his honour is engaged therein,therefore he fays, ‘ My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips,’ Pfalm 89. 34.He hath more regard to it than he hath to heaven and earth:for he fays ‘ heaven and earth fhall pafs away, but mywords (hall not pafs away.’ He hath futh regard to it, thathe will never break it, but ever keep it.3. He hath refpeft to his covenant, when he effablifhe*st. And when we pray, that he would have ‘ retpedf to thecovenant,’ we not only pray he would remember the cove¬nant, cod regard the covenant, but eOablifh the covenantbetwixt him and us, as be faid to Abraham, Gen. 17. 7.‘ I will eftablilh it between m? and thee, and rhy feed af¬ter thee.’ He fiiews refpe<5t to the covenant, when he makesthe covenant take hold of us, and makes us take hold ofthe covenant; for then he makes us put refpect upon him,and upon his covenant.4. Ht; hath rejfpefl to the covenant, when he performs thecovenant-p.-omife, according to-Micah 7. 20 ‘ Thou wiltperform the to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,Which thou hah fwyrn to our fathers from the days of oldand be does this, when he adts according to the covenant’,or according to the mercy 'fat made the p;omsfe, and thetruth that is engaged to make otsi 'he prorni'e.In Ihort the fun- of this prayer, as it concerns the importof the word ffel'pedt, ‘ Have refpedi to the covenant,' is,* Lord, remember the covenant, and fo remember me ;Lord, have regard to the covenant, and let me be remem¬bered on this ground, when there is no reafon why J Ihouldbe regarded; Lord, eftftfj&fh thy covenant with me, and foput honour upon thy name rnanifefi^d in that covenant,and do to me according so the pronaife oh the covenant,Lsure me hope in thy word, and then ‘ remember thy wordon which thou halt caul’ed me to hop?';’ and deal with menot according to my fin and defeit. but according to thycovenant and mercy in Chrift Jehus,’III. We are next to fne’.v what it is in the covenant hehath a reipecl to, or that we fhould plead upon.1. ‘ Have reipect to the covenant that is, to the Me¬diator ot' the covenant. Tho’ thou oweft no telpcct to me,yet dolt thou not owe refpret, and halt thou not a great re¬ipect to the Mediator of the covenant, even to him whomthou haft ‘ given to be a covenant of the people?’ For hisfake let me be pitied; have refpect to the relation he bearsto the covcn?:,r, even to him who is (he Mediator, Tefta-tor, Witnefs, Mdffeager, Surety, and ail of the covenant.Have refpect, to his offices, and let him get the glory ofhis faving offices. It is a ftrong plea to plead with Godupon the rcfpect he bears to Chrift; God cannot win overfucb a plea as that. He mult own bis regard and refpectto Chrift, who bath paid fuch a refpect to him, and ‘ fi-nifhed the work he gave him do.’2- Have refpeet to the covenant, by having rcfpect tothe blood of the covenant. The blood of Chrift, that is re-prefented in the faernment of the fupper, it is the ‘ bloodof the covenant,’ called, ‘the newTeftament in his blood;’becaufe all the promifes are fealed therewith, and fo ‘ yeaand amen in ebrift this is the condition of the new co¬venant. The covenant of works had only the active obedi¬ence of the firft .Adam for its condition : but the conditionof the covenant of grace properly, is both the active andpaffive obedience of the Second Adam, his doing and dy¬ing. Nov/, Lord, have rcfpect to that blood that fealed thef covenant ; fince the condition is fulfilled to thy infinitefarisfaction let the promiicd good be conferred upon me.2. Have refpect to the covenant, by having refpect tothe oath of the covenant, Hcb. vi. 17. The promife isconhittied with the covenant of God ; ‘ That by two im¬mutable things wherein it is impoffibie for God to lye, wemight haye ftrong confolation &c.’ Now, Lord, wilt thounot have refpect to thine own oath ? Haft thou not ‘ fwornby tby hpiinefs, thou vdit npt lye unto David ?’( 6 )4. Have refpect to the covenant, by having a refpectto the properties of the covenant. This would be a largefield ; I fum it up in a few words. Have refpect to the co¬venant ; that is, Lord have rcfpcct to the fulnefs of the co¬venant, and let me be fupplied, for there is enough there;it contains 4 all my falvation and all my defire.’ Have re-fpedl to the freedom of the covenant, and let me, howeverunworthy, fhare of the grace that runs freely thence. Havercfpedt to the liability of the covenant, and let me, be pi¬tied, though unftable as water, and infirm, yet the cove¬nant (lands fad; remember thy word that ‘ endures for e-ver.' Have refpeft to the order of the covenant, that ‘ iswell ordered in all things,’ as well as fure. 4 Though myboufe be not fo with God,’ fays David, ‘ yet he hath madewith me an everlafting covenant, well ordered la all thingsand fure.’ Though my houle be out of order, and heartout of order, and my frame out of order, and all be inconfufion with me, yet fee, according to thy covenant, toorder all well.IV. Wc proceed to (hew what kind of a refpeft he hathto the covenant, that we may be the more engaged toplead upon it.1. He hath a great and high refpeft to the covenant. Itis the covenant of the great God, with his great and eter¬nal Son, for the honour and glory of his great name; andtherefore, he cannot but have a great and high refpect un¬to it. His great name is manifefted in it; and therefore,when we plead his refpect to the covenant, we plead ineffect, faying, ‘ What wilt thou do for thy great name ?’2. He hath a dear and lovely refpect to the covenant, forit is the covenant of his grace and love, wherein he (hewsbis infinite love to Chriff, and thro’ him to a company o(wretched finners. It is a covenant of kindnels, Ifa 54.10.4 My kindnefs finall not depart from thee, neither (hall thecovenant of my peace be removed, faith the Lord, thathath mercy on thee;’ intimating, his covenant of peace isa covenant of kindnefs, wherein he manifells his deareftlove; therefore he hath a dear refpect to it.5. He hath a full relpect to the covenant, a refpect toevery promife, of it 4 they are all yea and amen, to theglory of God,’ 2 Cor. 1. 20. He hath a refpect to all ofthem becaufe they 4 are all yea and amen,’ and becaufethey are all thus ratified in Chrilt, to the glory of God.He hath refpect to every article of the covenant, « not ajet fliall fall to the ground.4. He hath an everlafting refpect to the covenant; there¬fore it is called ‘ an everlalting covenant,’ it is fecured byan everlafting righteoufnefs; it is made between everlallingparties; it is replenifhed with everlading bledings ; it isrooted in his everlalHng love: therefore he is ever mindfulof his covenant, and will never cejfe to have refpect to it.Well then, fay you, what need we pray and plead, thathe would have refpect to his covenant? Why, if it be furethat he hath, and will for ever have, a rel'pect to the cove¬nant, then we may pray with the more alfurance and confi¬dence; fo that there is here (trong footing for our prayer:but befides, when we pray, and fay; ‘ Have ref'pect untothe covenant,’ we feek, that he would Ihew the refpectthat he hath unto it, that he would fhew and make it ma-nifell unto us, that we may have the faith of it, and enjoythe fruits of it, and the blelTed effects of that refpect to itin our participation of the bleflings thereof.V. The next thing was, to fhew why he will have re¬fpect to his covenant; and confequently, whence it is fucha fuitable plea and argument for us. Why,I. When he hath refpect to the covenant, he hath refpectto himfelf; the framer of it he owns himfelf to be, Pfalm89 3. ‘ I have made a covenant with my chofen. Whythen the tlrength of the plea is, ‘ have refpect unto the co¬venant,’ and fo have refpect to thyfelf, and thy own glori-ous name and attribute?, and let them be glorified, in (hew¬ing regard to the covenant. Have refpect to thy wifdomthat fhines in the contrivance of the covenant, ‘ the mani¬fold wifdom of God; yea, the wifdom of God in a myfte-ry’ that here appears. Have refpect to thy power that fhinesin the efficacy of the covenant, not only for over-power¬ing principalities and powers, but overcoming thyfelf, andthe power of thine own wrath, by the power of thy love.Have refpect to thy holinefs, that fiiines in the holy oa\hof Jehovah, by which it is confirmed, and the holy obedi¬ence of Jefns, by which it is fulfilled ; fo that, as ‘ bythe Sinful difcbedience of one many were made finners, bythe Holy obedience of another Glorious One, many aremade righteous.’ Have refpect to thy jufiice, that fninesin the blood of the cov nant, the factifice by which jufticehath condign and infinite fatisfactioo. Have refpect to thy* ■ . ■ V< « )mercy an3 grace, that reigns through that righteoufnefs toeternal life. Have refpect to thy truth and faithfulnefs, thatfhines in accomplifhing all the [iromifes of the covenant,upon the ground of Chrift’s having fulfilled the condition.Have refpcct unto thy eternity and ithmutability, in thennchangeahlenefi! of the covenant; (hew that thou art God,and changefi not. Thus have refpect to thyfelf.2. When ne hath refpect to the covenant, he hath refpectto, his Son, Chrili, the center of it, and in whom it ftandsfato as he owns, Pfal. 89. 28. ‘ My covenant (hall (land faffwith him.* Why then, the flrength of the plea is, ‘ have rc-ipect to the covenant,’ and fo (hew refpect to thy Son ; haverefpect to him in his perfon, as he is thy Son and our Savi¬our; Emmanuel, God man ; in his divinity, wherein he isequal with God ; in his humanity, wherein he is the Ma-fter-piece of God’s works. Have refpect to him in his pur-chafe, which is the fubftance ofthe covenant bought with hisblood. Have refpect to his death and relurrection; for thoulovefl him on this account. John to. 17. ‘ Therefore doththe Father love me, bccaufe I lay down my life, that 1 maytake it up again ;* where we fee that Chrift, as dying andrifing in the room of his people, is the objedt of the Father’slove, delight, and efteem. Have refpedl unto his interceflion,wherein he prays for all the bleffings of the covenant thathe hath purcha’fed: doth not the Father hear him always?Have refpedl to his commiflion, which is fealed by thee;*for ‘ him hath God the Father fealdd,’ appointed, and au¬thorized unto all faving offices, relations, and appearances,let him get the glory of all thefe. O firong plea !3. When he hath refpeft to the covenant, he hath refpedl:to his Spirit,the great applierof the covenant-bleffings, andexecutor of the Teftament, fealed with the blood of Chrift,and by whom covenant love is ffied abroad upon the heart,Rom. v. 5. Why then, the ifrength of the plea is, ‘'haverefpedl to the covenant;’ that is, have refpedt to thy ownSpirit, that he may get the glory of applying by his power,what Chrift hath purchafed by his blood. Have refpedt tothe Promife, of the Spirit that thou halt made, that ‘ whenhe is come, he ffiall convince the world ot fin, rigbteou'.-tiefi, and judgment,’ and tellify of Cfirift, and glorifyC.rift, bv (hewing the things of Chrift. Have refpedt tothe offices of the Spirit, as he is a convincer, fandtifier,and comforter, according to the order and method of thecovenant. Have re<peft to the honour of the Spirit, whois the all in ail of the covenant in point of power, andpowerful manifeflation, communication, and operation.Have refpedt to the relations, of the Spirit, as he is theSpirit of the Father and of the Son, the Spirit of the co¬venant, and of all the covenante' feed. Hence,4. When he hath refpecf to the covenant, he hath refpeftto his people on the account of the covenant of promife ;for they, ‘ as Ifaacwas,are the children of promife,’Gal iv.28. Why then, the (trength of the plea and argument hereis Lord,‘have refpedl to the covenant,’ and fo (hew regardand refpedf to us. We have no confidence to ciaitn arivrefpeff at thy hand, but merely upon the account of the re-<pect thou hail to thy covenant. Have reipeift to our per-lonson this ground, fince the covenant providesac^eptance‘ in the beloved,’ Eph. i. 6. Look upon us in the face ofthine anointed, and in the glafs of the new covenant. Haverefpedt to our prayers and performances on this ground,fince the covenant hath provided much incenfero perfumethe prayers and offerings of all faints, upon the golden al¬tar that is before the throne, Rev. viii. 3 . Have refpedf toour tears, when we figh and groan, and mourn, and weepbefore thee, ftrwe the covenant provides a bottle fqr out*tears, Pfalm Ivi. 8. ‘ Put thou my tears in thy bottle.’Have refpedl to our needs on this ground, when we arehardened, that we can neither pray nor weep, nor fhed a mtear, fince the covenant provides fupply to the poor anrfneedy, Philip, iv. 19, ‘ My God fhail fupply all your need,according to his riches, in g'ory, by Chrill jefus.’VI. I would now proceed to make fome application ofthe fubjeef in thefe four words.x. Hence (ee a mark and charadfer of true believers, thatare fit for a communiontable, they are of God’s mind ;he hath a refpedt to the covenant, and they have d re-fpedt to the covenant; and hence thev know what it isto plead with God upon the refpedt that he hath to the co¬venant ; they could not do fo, if they had not a high re-fpedi to it tbemfeives ; they have fuch a refpedt to the ch•venant in kind as God hath. They have a great refpedt toit fo as they elteem it more than all things in a world, theywould not give one promile of it, on*which they havc^beea aaufej to hope for all the gold of O fair, Tdev haveQc IO ■)a dear and kindly refpcfl to it, as all their falvation and alltheir delire: yea, and all their delight alfo. The word ofgrace is Tweeter to them ‘ than honey and the honey comb.’They have a lull and univerfal refpedl to it, and to all thepromifes of it; they rcfpecl the promifeof purity as well asthe promifeof pardon: die prom ife of falvation from Gnas well, and as much, as the promile of falvation from beil;the promife of holinefs as well as of happinefs. .As theyhave a refpedl to all God’s commandments, fo they have arefpedl to all his promifes; and particularly as David hadhis golden Pfnlms, fo they have their golden promifcs thatthey are made to hing upon. Yea,they have an everlalHngrefpe<fl to the covenant and to the promifes thereof; even•when their frame fails them, when their fwcet enjoymentsfail them, yet theirrefped tethe covenant remainsand theirrefpedl to the maker of the covenant, to the Mediator ofthe covenant, to the blood and oath of the covenant, to ,the Spirit of the covenant, and to the bleffings and benefitsof it. They have an everlaifing refpedt to the grace of thecovenant of grace; they are adorers and admirers of freegrace. They have an everlafting refpefl to, and remembe-ranee of the words of the covenant, particularly thefe wordsthat have been let in with any life and power upon theirfoul, or that they have been caufed to hope upon; what¬ever they forget, they can never forget fueh a word thatbrought life to their fouls; ‘ I will never forget thy words,fays David for by them thou halt quickened me.’ They ''have fuch an evcrlafting refpell to the covenant, that, whenthey have nothing in the world to trulbto; they will relyon the covenant, and confide in fuch a promife, and pleadupon it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have refpedt to the covenant.’2 Hence we may fee the mifery of thefe that are unbe¬lievers, and remain ; ((rangers to the covenant of promife,’and have no refped to the covenant. It is mifery enough,that God hath no refpedt to you: no refpetfl to your per-fons nor prayers, as it is faid, * To Cain and his offeringGod fiad no refpetf,’ Gen. iv. 5. So God hath no refpetfteither to your perfbns orperlotminces ; they are an abo¬mination to him. Your prayersto him are but likethe howl¬ing of a dog, if you have never taken hold of his covenant,nor feen the relpefi that Go'd hath tothecovenant You haveno refpedt to God, while you have no refpeiff to thatwhich he relpetfls fo highly. And as he hath no refpeft to( II )your pcrfcns or performances, he hath no refpedl to yourtears; they never flowed from faith’s views of a piercedChrift. He hath no refpedt to your fouls, the ‘ redemptiontherefore ceafetb for ever,’ becaufe you have no due re-fpeft to the Redeemer’s blood and righteoufnefs. He hathno refpedt to your communicating; nay he difapproves,of it, and difcharges you to fit down at his table, on perilof eating and drinking your damnation. God bath no re¬gard nor refpect to your falvation, becaufe you have no re¬gard nor refpedi to the Saviour he hath provided and of¬fered. God thinks as little to damn you, as you think littleto difhonour him. God thinks as little ol you, as you think,little of fin, and he hath as little refpeci to you, as you havet© Chrift and to the covenant. Wo to you, if you remainin this cafe, for the day is coming wherein God will, be¬fore all the world, fhew no more refpeit to you, than to, fay to you, ‘ Depart from me ye curfed, into everlaftingji fire, prepared for the Devil and his angels!’ But,li 3. Hence we may fee the happinefs of believers, thatt have fuch a refpeft to the covenant, as 1 was fpeaking of,a great, dear, full, and perpetual refpeft to it, and the Me¬diator of it, who have taken hold of the covenant thro’| grace, and know what it is to take hold of God in theco-i venant, to take hold of God in a promife, and to hold himi by his word, and rely upon him in it, faying, Lord, ‘ Have6 rcfpedf to the covenant;’ here is your great happinefs,God hath refpcct to you: what refpect? Even to your per-fons and offerings, as it is faid of Abel, Gen. iv. 4. God had, a refpect to him and to his offering Tho’ you be fayingin your heart, Oh ! how can he have a refpect to me, black« and vile, and guilty me? Why ? not for your fake indeed,I he it known unto you, but for his covenant’s fake, and hisname’s fake. He hath a refpect to your praying, and praif-i ing, and communicating ; becaufe he hath a refpect to thecovenant. He hath a refpect to your name; tho’ ‘ the nameof the wicked Ihall rot, your name fliall be in evcrlaflingremembrance;’ for God hath put his nam-e in you; fome-! thing of Chrifi in you, fomething of the covenant in you.i Some obferve, when Abram’s name was turned to Abraham,I there was tome «f th« letters of the name Jehovah put inAbram’s name. Indeed, God gives the believer a new name,that he hath a refpect unto, he hath a refpect to your fuitsand fupplicauons; ‘I have heard Ephraim bemoaninghimfeif. O rny dove, that art tft the cleft of the rock, inthe fecret places of the Hairs; let me hear thy voice ; letme fee thy countenance, for fweet is thy voice, and thycountenance is ccvnely.’ He hath a rcHiecr to his doves,when pouring out of their heart before him; that voice thatthe world laughs at, God hath a refpect to it. He hath arelpect to your blood, precious in his fight is the Wood ofhis faints. He hath a refpect to your fools; and hence hegave his blood to be a ranfom for them,and when your foulslanguifh, he fends his Spirit to reftore them, am! when youdie, he will (end his angels to bring them to heaven. Hehath a refptc to your bodies;ypu ought, being bought witha price, to glorify him in your fouls and bodies which arehis. When your body goes to the dull, he will take careof that duil, and lofe nothingol you, hut raife you up at thelaft day, and make your vile bodies like unto his gloriousbody ; and fo (hall ye ever be with the Lord. He bath arefpect toyoc, fuch a refpect that he puts honour upon you,‘ Since thou waff precious in my fight, thou halt been ho¬nourable.’ He hath made you kings and prieits to your GodJacob was crowned a prince on the field of battle, the fieldof prayer, when he wrelikd with the angel and prevailed,as a prince. Ti e poor wrefliing man is a prince, and thepoor wreltling woman a princefs, in God’s fight : This isthe honour of all the faints. They have power wiih God,and therefore no wonder tir.t they have ' power over thenations, to rule them with a rod of iron e\ judge andtorment them that dwell upon the earth, even oere ; and* know yo.o not. that hereafter the faints fhal) judge theworld?’ Goo hath a refpec' to yem* and ht will fhew it indue time beeaulc be hath a refpect to the covenant andfilled your htart with refpret to :t alio.4, Hence fee the duty int urn nr n’ icon us in pleading withGod for bis favour, prefel.ee. arc! bkfling ; let us go to himboth in fecret prayer,and in C kmn approaches to his table,cry:ng Lord, ‘ Have retpect 10 thy covenant.’ j know nota cate you can be in but the covenant exhibits a cure, andyou are allowed, te plead it, Ezek. xxxiv. 22- ' * *fc manyprecious new covenant prom fes, it is faid, • For this will1 be enquired of by the houie of ffrael., to do it for them,’and how are we to enquire, hut by pleading the refpect hshath to the covenant ? Have you a polluted heart. With thefilth of fin ; a polluted ccnfcier.ee, with the guilt ol lin ■( u )Why, here i? an at*'>cie of ihe : ‘ I will fprinkleclean water upon you, and yr fnall be clean, from all yourfilthinefs, and ftom a(! your ididr will I cieanfe you.’ver.25- O then, go to God for clear.Gng, and plead, faying, OLord, ‘ Have reipect to the. covenant.’ H ive yen the oldbard ftony heart (till within you, and would you have it re¬newed artd fohened? Here isan article of the covenant. ‘ Anew heart will I give you, ard anew fpirit will 1 put with¬in yon: I will takeaway theliony heart out of your fleflt,and l will give you an heart of fiefh.’ O then, goto God,and plead it faying, ‘ Have refpect to the covenant.’ Areyou ddthute of the Spirit ; fenfual, not having the Spirit?Do you find Inch a want of the Spirit, that you cannotwalk in God’s way ? Well, there is an article of the cove¬nant here, wer. 27. ‘ I will put my Spirit within you, andcaufe you to walk in my Ifatutes.’ O plead for this greatbleffing, and fay. Lord, ‘ Have refpect to the covenant.’In a word, \vhen you confider what kind of a ftnner youare, confidcr alfo what kind of a covenant this is ; it is e-nough to fay, that it is a covenant of grace, of all fort ofgrace; for all forts of finnersthat are out of hell. Are you .under dreadful guilt? Here is acovcnantof pardoning grace,‘ I will blot out thy fin as a cloud and thy tranfgrdlion asa thick cloud : return to me for I have redeemed thee,’ Ifa.xliv. 22- O then plead he may ‘ have refpect to the cove-1 nant.’ Are you under fearful pollutions? O here is acovenant of purifeing grace, faying, ‘ There is a fountainopened to the houfe.of David and the inhabitants of Jcrufalem for fin and for uncieannefs.’ O then plead he mavhave refpect to the covenant. Are you in darkneli and ig¬norance, having no knowledge of God ? O here is a cove¬nant o! eniightntng grace, laying, ‘ They (hall be all taughtof God.’ O then plead it, faying, Lord. ‘ Have refpect tothe covenant.’ Are you under deadnefs, and like dead anddry bones ? O here is covenant of quickening grace, fay-jng, ‘ ] am come to give life, and to give more abundant¬ly. The hour r ometh when the dead fhall hear the voice ofthe S >n of God, and they that hear (hall live,’ O then,plea.) that be may ‘ have refpec.t to the covenant. Are youin con folio n. and know not what way to take? Q here isa.covenant of directing grace, faying, * I will bring theh!:nd by a way they know not ;. 1 will lead them in pathsthat they have not known; 1 will make darkuets light be-fore them, and crooked things ftraight.’ Are you underfad plagues and foul difeafes, over ran with fores, from thecrown of the head to the foie of the foot ? O here is a co¬venant of healing grace, faying, * The Sun of Righteouf-ncfs fhal! arrfe with healing in his wings. I am the Lordthat healeth thee; I will heal your backflidings.” O then,plead, faying, Lord, ‘ Have refpect to the covenant.’ Areyou in extreme danger of hell and damnation, becaufeofyour fin and guilt ? O here is a covenant of deliveringgrace, faying, ‘ Deliver his foul from going down to thepit, for I have found a ranfom.’ O then plead it, and fay,Lord,: • Have refpect to the covenant Are you in bond¬age unto fin, Satan, and the world, a captive unto lulls,and [hut up in unbelief as in a prifon ? O here is a cove-nant of liberating grace ! ‘ proclaiming liberty to the cap¬tives, and the opening of the prifon to them that arebound.’ Are you a Itupid foul that cannot move towardGod, nor dir heaven-ward, by reafon of a backward willlike a brazen gate that refills all the force of movingmeans ? Well, but, O ! here is a covenant of drawinggrace, faying, 4 When I am lifted up, I will draw all menafter me.' As the power and virtue of the load donedraws iron, fo the virtue of an exalted Chrill draws theiron bar of the will. ‘ Thy people (hall be willing in theday of thy power,’ O then, plead it, faying, Lord, ‘ Haverefpect to the covenant.What other Concerns have you?—Are you concernedfor your children, that they may be partakers of covenantblellings, and faved of the Lord ? O here is a covenant ofextenfive grace intailing bleflings on us and our offspring,laying, I will be thy God, and the God of thy feed.’ Othen, look to God in behalf of your children, laying,Lord, ‘ Have refpect to the covenant.’ Are you concern¬ed for the church, and the dangerous circumdances (he isinto by reafon of cruel enemies ? This feems to be thegreat concern of the Pf Imill here, as appears from thebody of the pfalm, andtthe words following the text:‘ For the dark places ofthe earth are full of the habita¬tions of cruelty.’ Thefe that live in darknefs ol igno¬rance and error, and in the works of darknefs, are full ofcruelty again!! the church and people of God, and theyare furrounded with them, infotnuch that the church islike a ‘ lily among thorns,’ or a ‘fheep among wolves,’1what (hall become of it ? Why, here is a covenant of de¬fence, and of defending and protecting grace, faying,* Upon all the glory there (hall be a defence;’ thereforeeven when enemies, ‘ break down the carved work withaxes and hammers.’ ver. 7. When they are faying, ‘ Letus dedroy them together,* ver. 8,- Yea, when it (hall cometo this, that a bloody fword, that is raging abroad, (hailcome over to as, and that foreign domedic enemies, orboth, (hall devour and oedroy, and may be ‘ burn up allthe fynagoguesof God in the land,’ as it is, ver, 8 Andwhen we (hall ‘ not fee our figns, and there is no moreany prophet, nor any among us that know the time howlong,’ ver. 9. In all fuch cafes, what courfe (hall we takebut that of the Pfalmid here? Lord, ‘ Have refpect tothe covenant,’Are you concerned about inward enemies, fpiritual ene¬mies, and moleded with the powers of darknefs? Is yourheart full of the habitations of cruelty, and fearfully in¬habited with cruel devils, cruel luds,cruel corruptions thatmader and conquer, and prevail againd you fo as youmay ly many a time wounded and dead at the enemy’sfeet? O here is a covenant of fin conquering grace, notonly a covenant of mercy to your foul, but of vengeanceto your luds, faying, ‘ The day of vengeance is in mineheart, the year of my redeemed is come,’ Ifa. Ixiii. 4.O then cry down the promifed vengeance on all yourcruel foul enemies, faying, Lord, ‘Have refpect to the co¬venant.Are you concerned about your foul poverty and indi-gency, not only oppreded with enemies without, and with¬in, but alfo oppreffed with wants and neceffitics, beingI abfolujely poor and needy deditute of all good? O hereis a covenantor loul fupplying grace, and of all needfulprovifion, faying, ‘ When the poor and needy feek water,and there is none, and their tongue faileth for third, Ithe Lord will hear them, I the God of Jacob will not for-fake them ; I will pour water upon him that is third*/, andfloods upon the dry ground.’ O then, plead the covenantas the Pfalmid here in the following verfe, ‘ O let not theopprefled return afhamed, let the poor and needy praifet hy name. Have refpedt unto the covenant.’In a word let your cafe be the word out of hell this co¬venant contains all falvation as a covenant ol grace, of( 16 )all grace, of ail fort of cures for ail fort of cafes; and ifyou can get yourfeif wrapt within the bond of this cove¬nant bv believing and pleading it; then you draw God up¬on your inte'reft, fo that your concern is his concern yourtmerett is his intcrefl, your caufe is his caufe as theP fal mi ft (hews here, ver. 22. ‘ Arifc, O God, plead thineown caufe.’ Stand ever upon his honour, and he will dohis own work in his own time. If ever you got grace todraw a hill upon God as a covenanting, pramifing God inChrift, and have any biils lying tabled before the throne,and arc fometimes unable to plead and pnrfue the bill,with.Lord, 4 Have refpeift unto the covenant,’ you have theftrongeft encouragement to wait on him and expedt hisanswering the biil in due time; for be will rather work mar-velloufiv, and create new worlds, rather turn all things tonothing than quit his concern in, or give up with his ‘ re-fpedt unto the covenant.Are you concerned for the advancement of the kingdomof Chrift in the earth as you ought to be? Here is a co¬venant of grace to the Jews, and grace to the-Gentiles ;grace to the Heathen nations, faying, ‘ I will give th -e theHeathen for thine inheritance, and 'he uitermort parts ofthe earth are thy poft'eftion. Are you concerned about gene,rations to come, about the riling generation, when thereis little hope of the prefent ? O ! here is a covenant of graceto fucceeding generations till the end of the world, ‘ I willmake thy name to be remembered in all generations; there¬fore (hall the people praile thee for ever and ever.’Are yon-concerned about your latter end, and how it(hall fare with you when in the fwellings of Jordan; howyou will fight the battie? O here is a covenant of deathconquering grace, faying, ' Death (hall be fvvailowed up invictory; of death, 1 w.ll be thy plague; O grave, I willbe thy deftruction.’ Are you concerned about a gofpel-miniftry, and thoughtful whether it fhall be continued ?There is many a word in this covenant about it; but c(pe-ciaily that, Chrift is exalted to maintain and fupport agofpel difpenfation to the end of the world, Mat. xxviii,;o. Whatever (pot of t’.ie earth he chufeor refufe, he hav¬ing ‘ afeended on high hath received gifts for men, yea,for the rehcll’ous alfo, that the Lord God might dwell a-mong them,’ Pfalm lx.xviii. 18.FINIS.