AT E S T I M O N YTO THEWORK of REFOFvMATION'INBRITAIN and IRELAND.EY THE LATE RLVEEENDMr. SAMUEL RUTHERFOORD,ProfciTlr cf Dh.inity at St. Andrews,TO WHICH ARE ADDED,A Short ACCOUNT of his LIFE,with feme of his Laft Words.Stirling, Printed by C. Randall, 1802.( 3 .)ATEST!M O N YO T K EWORK OF REFORMATIONHOUCiH, the Lord need.iii not a S’eltimonyfrom fuc:'. ;) wret' heJ man as I, and i: all theworld ihouid be filcht, the very ftones would cry,n is- more than iebr, that' 1 fliould confefs Chrift,b f .»re roe« and anoeli. I would fatisfy me not alirt! j that the throne of the Lord Jefus were ex-z t d, above fhj clouds, the iieaven of heavens,and on both lides of the fun; and that all pofliblepraise and glory' were sferioed to him That, byhis jjrace, 1 fr ight put my feal, fuch. as if is, untothat foi.g, ev n ttv: new loi g of the e, who with ah.ud \ ice & g, Rev 9. ‘ I’imu art worthy totAe the bcok, and to open the feats thereof: Forth, u waft fain, and haft redeemed us to God bythy blood, out of every kunorc , and tongue, andpeople aud n tion, and haft ma le us unto cur Godkmjis an pri fts : A ;d we fhall reign up »n thaca-th * And bidlen were I cou.d I lay to my earef iatth, and fay, Aiherit to the Plaint ‘ of thejnany angels round about the l^hrOne, and thebe£ft:s and ciders, whofe number is tea thouaaiI NBRJ TA IN and IP, E LAND,1Fits. iS/i, 16614 Mr. Rutkerfoord'j 'Tejliinony.times ten theufand, and tbemrands of thonfandsfaying with a loud voice, ‘ VV orthv is the Lamb th;was flairs to receive power, and richesj and wifbompand ftrength, and honour, and glory, and bleffingjjjAnd if I heard ‘ every crea<ure, which is in heaven iand on the earth, and under the earth ;*an'd fuchlas are in the lea; and all that are in them (as Johmbeard them ) ;'a- ng. Blefling^and honour, and glo-y land power be unto him that tltteth upon the throne 1and unto the Lamb for ever and -ever.’ I mearijnot any fuch vifib’e reign cf Chrift on earth as the!Mii lenarinns fancy, t believe (Lord help my un-jrbelief) the doftrine cf the holy prophets, and thJJapoftles of our Lord Jdus Chrift, contained ithe books of the Old and New ] edamem, to bthe undoubted truth of God ; 'and a pe-f. ift rule.cfaith, and the only way tl faivation. And I cialacknowledge the lurn of the Cbrjft;;n rtIigionJ!exhibited in the Conf-fllons and Catecbifms of thelreformed Proteftsnt chinches. And in the Narlticnal Covenant, divers tones fworn by the King’s!Majefty, the State ami Chinch of -.cotland, andfeaied by the teftimohy and hub'crip; ions of the:Nobles. Barops, Gentlemen, Citizen., Miniiiers, andiProfeflors of all ranks': as alio in the (Solemn Leagueand Covenant, in the three kingdoms of Scotland,England., and Ireland And I do judge, and in my]confcience believe, that no powc r or earth can abtolve:and liberate the people f f God from the bonds andfacred ties cf the oath of God. I am p rfuadtd,,that Afa atted wananrablv, in making a rw, that]the people Ihould hand to the covenant, and nre- iceiviryp into the covenant luch as were not of hisjkirgdom, 2 Chror xv.' 6 xo. As i aho rie-lZtkiab, in ient ing procLmaticn through si' thetribes from Dari to ti eriheba that hey ihoindcome and keep tl . p dbvci urto cbe Lord at jc u-fakm, a Chrui, xxx. 6, 7. though, their own pr.n-Mr. Ruihcrfccrd's 'Teft'imottf. ?cts '5id r.ot ccrne -long with them: Y-?»y 4.ftd itis nature’s law, warranted by the w rJ, hatna 'rn; (houid encourage, and liir up one am** her#to leek, the true Ood It is aifo prophicied, thatdivers nations fhouid excite one another this way,Ifa. iii. 8 ‘ Many peop'e (liall go, and fay, Comeye and let us s^o up to the mountain of the Lord,to he houre cf the God of Jacob, and he wH teachus of his ways.’ Zech. viii. 2. * And the inhabi¬tants of one city Shall go to another, faying Letits go fpeediiy to pray before the Lord, and to feekthe Lord of holds: l will go aifo Yea, manyp ople. and hrong nations (hall come to feck theLord of holts in Jendalem ; and to pray Oefore therd.’ ' here is alio a clear prophecy to be ac-comphfhed under the New rrham nt, ‘ Thatrad and J adah fhali go together and feelc the Lord:they (hah ailc the way to Zion with their Lees thi-thtiTW/rd, laying. Co:ne, and let us jo n ourfelveito the Lnnj, m ■>. perpetual covenant, that fha'l notbe L> gotten,’ j r. i. 4, 5 ft is aifo foretold, thatdid. rent nations Shall confederate with the Lord,ana with one another, Ifa. six. 23. 24, 25. ‘Inthat day there (hail be an highway out of Egyptto ; fiyri i, and the Aflyvian Ihall come to Egypt,anti the Egyptian into Aflyria, and the EgyptiansIhall It-.rve with the Affvnar.s. In ihat dav, (hailiirael be the th rd with Egypt, and w ith Affy>ia,even a Lv iUng in tne mid it of the Land : whom theLortl tf holts liSail blefs, faying, B! IT.d be Egyptmy people, and A^fyria the work of my hands, andIlraei mine inheritance.’Lhe Church of Scotland had dice as much ofthe pretence of Chriit, as to the power anil purityct Doctrine, VYprihip, Difcipline, and Government,as many we r,.ad cf, fmee the Lord took his anci¬ent ptople to be his covenanted Church. TheLord tUrrecl up our nobles to attempt a reforma-$ Mr ^ 'RufherfcorS's Tejlhncny.tior. In the 'air a^e*' through inrany . ifficulties, andagainft n uch oppofiiion, from ’hifr in fuiprcftieauthority : He rtiade bar his hoiy arm y^ahd carri¬ed or the work glorioi fly like hirr.felf : his rightfcao getting him the vi5lerj, 'until the IdolatryRon e, and her curfed Mafs were dafhed -ahopeful Reforma inn was in fome meafure fettled*and fourcl Cftrfeflton of Faith was agreed uponby the Lords of the C'^grep/atien. The people ofG* •'4, accori ing to the laudable -cuftotn bf otherancient Churches, the Prctedarts in Frarce andHolland and the renowned prince* of Germany,did carry cn the work in in innocent feT-cJefrnfive\frar, which the Lord did abundantly biffs. Wlv nour land and church.v “re thus conteruling for thatbegun Reformation, tfiefe in authority did ft Hieppofe the work • And there were not want in e,meri from among ourfelves, mrn of prelatical fpi-fits. who, with fome ether ame-ferving o urtiers,did not a little undermine the building. And wedealing tco much upon found P riiamerfs, andlawfully conftitute G -reral AfTeinblies. fell from,our firft love, to Plf feeding, fecret-b;> nling, andlittle-fearing the oath of Gcd.Afterwards, cur work in public T*.is too rouchin fet^utftration of elGtes, fmitig and im-f fiforungirore than in a con p.ffinhatc mournfulneis oi /pi¬th toward* thefc hem we law to oppofe tire work.In our Aflcrnblies, we were mere bent to fee up aRate oppefite to a Hate: more upon forms, eba-tious, lea. h*g of w tnilTes, lufpenfions from bcpCti-ces, than fpirhually to ptrfua 'e, and work uponthe coidcicnce, '♦ith the m.eekheis and gen'lcntfsof Chrift. I he glory and royalty of our princ. !yRedeemer and King was tramp«*d or, as arymight have Pen in our AlTemb its. What waythe ariny, and the fworb and rhe<countenance ofnobles and cfEkcrs leemtd to fway, that way werer   ,Mr. RuthcrfKrfTt TJKm&ny. Jtlve cenfnr^s car.-i cl. It ha b ?n '»emr ^her^been ere -'ari of hutoiHation in AiTemhhe», Sf»mods, Prefbyteries, Congregations, Fami s ->04 V,far Icfs a ijeurned commiflions tv -v pere. ’p ory! finnmons, a^d nevsr drawn up p-oceiT = Ane i£ ?the meeknefs and gent'enefs of >ur Alader had g-jt ;fo rriuch place m our hearts, that we mi«ht havewaited on gainfayers and partis* contrary min cd 5 -1and we m ght have driven gently, aa our matterChritt. who loves not to over drive, bUt carriesihr laajbs in his bofoin.If the word ofuuth in the Old and Mew Fci*tament be a aii tile'em role, holding iorh what is %Cbnfti-n a-my, whether ottenlive or defenfive jwhetimr dean, or fmfu! *j mixed,—1 hen, mutt vre| leave die qucltion jetwixt our puolic brethren aad\ us o be detertr.iued by that rule : hut if there beno tueh rule n ti.e wor , then the confederacies andaiic-ciatiutj' of ihe people of Go 1 with the. idola-trous apottate Hrariitcs, with the Egyptians and Af«lyii n-, as ti.at of Jeubfapliat with Ahab, anditicte of itrad and Judah with Egypt and Aflyria*hiaii u-t be -t udemned ; out they are often reprovedI and condemned in Icnpture i’o deny tlie fcciptureto be a futh^ient. rule m this cafe, were to accufeit of bean* imperteft and defective. — >n high andunjult r. hection on tine fioly word of God I Be¬yond all tjueltion, toe written word doth teach,"hat is a right coattituted court, and what not,P.d. x.-, what is a "rigiit conttituted houfe, andwhat not. Jj/lu xxiv. 15 • what is a true church,and what is a fynagogue-of Satan. Rev. it; whatis a dean camp, and what is an unclean. We arenot-for an army of faints, and free of all mixtureof ill a-S'c&ed men : But it feems an h’gh prevari¬cation for church men to coanfei and teach, Thatthe weight and trutt of the a flairs of Chritt, andhs kingdom, fhould be laid upon the whole jurtf:-4^ 'Mr. RuiitffoorWt 'Tejliwotiy.•of ftich a* hare b'-ciy <=’ mt ies tn our caufe; eon-'t^ry to the word of God. and the declarations,rerE-cnftrancf’s, fdlemn warnings, and ferious ex-. hortations of his church, whofe public protefta-tioos tiie fjord did admirably b’efs, to the encour¬age-em of the godly, and the ^rror of all theOpporerf of the work.Since we are vexv (hortly to appear before ovrcreadtul and Sorfreign, we cannot pafs-from our proteftatic>n. trufnng we are therein ac->cepted of him •, thonc!! we fhonld ly under the* in'-putatvon of dividing fpirits, and unpeareaWe men..We acknowledge all due obedience in the Lord mthe King’s Majefty ; but we dtlowo th>t ecc !rfi.'..(lrcfiiprema«y, in and over the chu.rh, whit:It fbmeaferibe to him : that power of commanding exter¬nal worfliip not appointed in the word ; and layingbonds upon the Confcierccs of men, wlien; Chi i-t• has made them free. We <;lfown antichrit'tian t" ■ -lacy bowing at the name rf J-fns, faints’ days, r -lionizing of the dead an<! c.her inch ccrriv t in¬ventions of men, and look on them ns the high,way to Popery. A las I now there Is no need of a.'Iptrit of prophecy to declare what fb di be the wo4hl cond tition of a land that hath broken cover-art,firft pradlieally, and thc-i legaiiv, with the J.orJour God : And what Ihsll be the day (•{' the (Lent,and dumb watchmen of Scotland ? Where will weleuve our glory } and .what if Chrift dfrprrt out ofl<our land ? We verily judge, they are moft loyal to Ithe Khig’s Majerty, who detire the drol’s may be Ifeparated from the fi ver, and tlic throne eftablithedjin righteoulnefs and judgment. We are-not < cn r1wltnefs is in heaven) again If his IvTojelty’s title by#fcirth to the kinadom, and the right ct the roy.ljfamily : but tnat the controversy of wrath againiljthe ro>a; fsmiiy m-y be removed that the hngejguilt cf the throne may.be.mourned for before thuiMr. F-iitkcrfoord's 'Teflimony.Lord; anti that his iYUj-ttly may hand conflantly,i ail the days of his 1 fe, to the covenant of Godj byoath, feal, and iubtcripnon, known to the world jthat fo p ace an 1 the bielSngs of heaven .may foUlow his government; that the Lord may be hisrock and fhiud ; that the juit may fl uriih in hisi time ; that men fearing God, hating covetoufnefs,j ano of known integrity and godiineL, may be iud-I ges and ruiers under his Mifjelty .—and they are noti ivnl.y loyal and faithful to the fupreme magiitrate,!, w ho wi'n not iu th ^ualliication in him. We arei not in this particular, contending that a prince,I who is not a convert or a 'ound believer, fails from,[ his royal dominion ; the i.riptures of God warrantI us to pr -y for and ooey in theijord, princes and iu-jl p erne magi ft rates, that -are other wife wicked » andi'to render ah due oDedience to the n, Rom xii 2,| 5. 2 rim ii. 12. 1 Pet it t3. Our fouls fliouldI be afil.£l‘cd before ttie Lord, tor R>e hurtling of the: caules of God’s wra h. A <ad prack . e, too likethe burning of the roil at Jchudi, Jcr. xxxvi 22.| In thefc comroverlics, v.e iiiould take fpcciai heedto ti.i*, ihat Carift is*t: iree, h.dcp-rideiu Sovereign,King and Lawgiver ' H e h ither hath appointed.J him his own King in mount Z on; and he cannot:endure, that t! e powers of tne world fhould ea-»cruach Upon his royal prerogatives, and preferibelaws to him : inis prefuu.ption is not far from thatof cibzens'trsa. hated him, Lutes xix 14. ‘ He ihailno- rule over usanJ from the intolerable; prideof thoi'e who are for breaking aiundcr the bands ofti.c Lord, and Ids anointed, *nd for catling awaythen- corns from them, Pial. ii 3! llfpfcially lee»tug the m n Chriit woulu not take the office of ajudge upon him, Luke xii. 14. and ml charged bisdiicip es. to cxcrcile a civi iordilnp ov;r their bre-tb»cn. true it is, riv roj y m giUratc may com¬mand the miidliers of the gomelto Jq their duty,■.IOM>c. Ruth? '■ fjord's R.Jthn r.D.but nfft up* f*r tf-.t pain ot rrdt.fi^lVk cen^jreJ' as if' •it were proper for him :o c<-ll vn- ui-.m11, oepoliand (ulpenu ;r"m the h >ly mir-iftry the Icrt.Iyfpu itval government in and over the church, is giv¬en ijnfo Ch iil, and none the: he, is the ioie ec-cleiiaft c lawgiver, it is .proper 'o him to frontswith the rod ot h s ir.o.n.h n r is -here any ether^i.culdtr, in h avrn or in eart’i, tint is al le to bearthe government As this h 'lx been the great < on-|treveriv b ta ist our Lord Jef'us and the powers of* the wot Id from the begin ing ; lo it ha? ruined a'dj ;t! t coped with him Cbriit ha? nroven a rotk pi tcrlhnce to them : they ha' e he n tiiafhed to pt-cesby the (lone that was cu< our ot lh« mountain with-? }rut hint's Dart. ii. 04, 3; And the other powers,that inter the Hfts with him, fhall have the famedrmaUxit Wh foevsr fliali fail on this done fhall ,he broken ; and on whendpevr r it flaall fall, it Jha!lgrind them to powde1-, Matth >xi 44 As theIdtfled prophets and ?.poftle« ot out Lord contended .not a little with the rulers if the ts; h. that Chilly sihould behead corner- ftore: that CJoift is the on¬ly head of hi; chinch, is as {,»e, a- * .at he died,was buried, and rife again. Ic i-. a moft vilkricu*and prevailing truth, not only pr? ched and at:efi<-ed by the ambsff do-s of the Lord of hobs, but ,coi fumed by blood, ivartv-rioir., r-rd_iufiering.— 1Many precious faints have thought it their homuirand dignity, to fuffer fl ante and rrpro.-cii toy the «n.4ne of J tus : And it is beyond doubt, that pal-five Ji.fi'. i?n,-> for the precious name of Chint cbn.esne reii to that noble i^irpler, wherein ChTifr, 'ho’ >.a {; n, Learned obedience by the things which he fuf- •>fere- , Helx v 8 Now 0! tf-d is 1 lie icu 1 wholoves not lit - fe to death, Ktv xii 11 For onfueh refs tl e fpirit of glory r.nd of Cod, 1 Pit.iv. 14. Vft cannot bur lay, it is a lad tunc to ourland at prcleiv, U is a d;y pi datkneis, an.1 relrase, „*rfr. Rutherford's Life, ISand blafyhemy. The Lord hath covered himfdfwith a cloud iu his anger, we looked for peace, butbehold evil: Our fouls rejoiced, when his maj-ftydid f-vear the coyenanr of God, and put thereto hisfeal and fubfeription i and therefore confirmed icby his royal promife. So that the fubjefts’ heartsbleffed the Lord and relied upon the healing wordof a prince ‘ liut now, alas ! the contrary is ena&edby taw, j.he carved worr; is broken down, ordinancesare rlefacec1, and we are brought into the formerbondage and cuaos of pre!sucai confulions. The-rojai prerogative of Cnnft is pulled from his head,and, a.ter ad the days of iorro-v we have feen, wehave juft caulc to fear we Ihall be made to read andeat that book, wher in is written mourning, andlamentation, and wo Yet we are to believe Chrifcwill not ft> depart from the land, but a remnantjlfnall.be laved ; an4 he flnll reign a victorious con-. qnering king to the ends of the earth. O thattjtnere were, nations, kindreds, tongues, and all the(people of Chrilt's habitable world, encompaliinglidos ti.rone with cries and tears for the fpirit ofiliupphcuiion, to be p ;ured down upon the inha-|bi.a.,ts of Judah for that cffvcLA. Brief Account of Mr. Rutherfoord’sLife, with forne of his ialt words.R. Samuel Ru therfoord, a gentlemanby extraction, having pent lome time atis grarnmer-fehool, went to tne univerQty of j£-j iinburgh, where he was ib much admired for hisi aregnancy of parts, and deservedly looked upon asTine h om who.u fjm; great things .might be ex-♦eftid, that in a .non d ue. (though then but veryT2Mr Rir her ford's Life:young) he was n.a jt- pr- fefibr cf phiiofophy in thatun verlltySome lime after this he was calley to !>■ minifterat An wo li, in the ftiire of Galloway, unto whichcharge lie entered by means of the hen rifcovn' ofKenmuir. without any , cki.owledgemem or engage¬ment to the bifhrps i h re he !abo reo with greatdi.igence and luce ft, both night and day, riling u-iual y by three o clock in ihe morning, fpendingthe whole time in leading, praying, writing, cate-chifing, and other umifs belonging to themimlieml proftfiion ?rd mrplo'ment.Here he vvn te his Exeraiationes de gratia, fee.for which he was lurr.moned ^..si arlya* June 1630}before the high commiffion court, hut the weatherwas fotemp ftuous as to obliruft the paflage-c.f thearchbifhop cr St Andrews hither, and Mr Colvil,one ef the judges, having bffriended him, the dietwas deferred About the lame time, his Hr ft wifedied after a fore Hckneis of thirteen months, and hehitnielf was fo id of a tertian fever for- thirteenweeks, that then he could not pit .ten. on the Sab-ba'h day, without great difficulty.Again ir. April 1634, he was tlvexteued wfthanother profecuuon at the inftance u the bithop ofGalloway before the high ccnu-nffimi ccurt ; andneither were rhefe ihreafenings ad the rcaiions Mr.Ruthei toord had to lay hii account wh h luftermand as the l.ord vfrou'id not hide from Jfts TakTifulfervant Abraham the thing- he was about to do,neither would he conceal from this ion of A,brah imwhat his pur poles were concerning him } for in :iletter to the prove,Vs wile cf K:rkudbright, datedApril 20, '643, he tays, ‘ Hurt upon the tyihandi8ih of Auguit he gut a full anlwer of his Lard tobe a graced minHler, and a chok-n arrow hid in his*lu- ver. Accordingly the thing he looked for cameupon bins, for he was again lummansd b-fore thePtViJtidLMr. Rutherfoord’s Life. 13ii;bh comniiiSon court for Kis non cov.formify, hispreaching a:’,ainil the five articles of Pe^th, and hisforemeruioned book of Rxereitatioms dpolog ticz prodeviiiti gratia, which book they aliedgtd J.d reiieftupon tne church officc tiand; but the tru h wa--,fay a late hilborian, (Stevenion;, t Jie arguaient ofthat book did cut the finews of Artninsani n ndgai ed the Ppifcopat c^rgy to the ' ery quick, andio biftiop qydfe i could endure him no longer.When he came before the comm ffion court, he al¬together declined it. as a lawful judicatory, andwould not give the c;'iancelor {being a, clergymenJand the biihcps their titles by lording of them •, yetfome had the courage to befriend him, particularlythe lord Lori, ut erwards the famous marquis ofArgyle) who did as much for him as was withinhis power ; but the biihop of Galloway threateningthat if he got not his will of him he would writeto the kirgj it was carried agairdl him, and uponthe 17th of July t6j6, he was di charg d to exet-cife am part of his miniftry within tbe kingdomof Scoilam', under pain cf rebellion, and orderedwithin lix months to confine liicukif with n the cityof \bfT 'ten, is’e. during the king's plealurt —which ientence lie obeyed, and forthwith went totlte place ef his confinementfrom Aberdeen he wrote manv of his famousj •ieturs, from which it is evident that the conioia-tion oi the Holy Spirit did grtatlv abcund with, himin his bufferings, yea, in one of thcle letters heexpreiks it in the ftrongeftteims, when he i :ys, ‘Inever knew before, that his iove was in i’uch a man-'ntr It he leave me, he leaves me in pain, and liesof love, and yet my iLkncis is my lire and bewth.i have a hre within me, I defy alt the devils in helland ad the prelates in hcotiamJ to calf water on it.*Here he remained upwards of a year air . a had, bywhich time he made tat doctors oi Aberdeen know*4Air. Ridherjcora s Life.that the putitciis tijev c41ed them , were cL rgy-mev a't weil <.s they, iim upon notice, that theprivv ccunlei hr-d rescind in a decdnatiire againftthe high comri ^ffion court in the year 1638, heventured to return to Ins flock at Antyoth, wherehe arain took great pains, both in public and pri¬vate, amongft that people, who fro-a all quart ers-reforted to Us mini-liry, lb tha; the whole country-fide might acc unt thenifelves his particular flock,anu it being then hr the dawning of the Refor¬mation, found no fipal! b-"n-fit by the go’p.l, thatJi*ri of the ancient prophecy 'e n ■ further acc-.w-pfithed, hr the •uiUpnefs Jhall ivaters break cut,a?.dp-reams ir. the dejrt, Ifa. xxxv. 0.tie was before that venerable afl' mbty held atGlasgow in 1638, aad gave an arccoynt of. all theiehis former proceedings with rdpedt tc his confintr-tuent, and the caufes thereof By them he was ap¬pointed to be prof .Tor of divinity at bt. \:r rt w§,and colleague in the mini Ary w i h worth) Mr Bla rwho vv^s tra 1 ibted hi her about the fame time —And here Goi aid again fo fccond this iris emin¬ent anti faithful i rvant, that, by his indefatigsb epains both in teaching in the Ichoois and preach¬ing in the cortgregatron, S. Andrews, the feat ofthe archbilhop, (sn b) that means the nuritry ofall Up rftition, error, and profaneue's; ibon be¬came forthwith a Lebanon, out ol which weretaken cedars for the buii iug of the houfc o« theLord, almoft through the whole land, many ofwhom he guided to heaven before himfelf, (whoreceived the fpiritual litc try his miniilry; and manyethers did waitc in iha' ligiit after himAnd as he was mighty in the public parts ot re¬ligion, lb he was a great praft icr and epcour gerof the private duties, thereof Thus, in the year1640, when a charge w as fuiAcd in before the ge-nerai aflcmbly at theinftance of Mr, Henry Guthrie.Mr. Rutherfo'.rd’s Lift. 15miniflerft Stirling, (afterwards Ir.ih -p of D mVei .i)againft private fociety mee tings, wh'ch -.'ere tbenaijoHndino in the land) on which en.ued muchreaforing, the one tide ylel -ing - hat a pap-.r b- oredrawn up by Mr Henderfon fhoulu be agreed unto,concerning the order to be kept in rhe-e meetings,£<c. but Guthrie and bis adherents oppoftn.. this,Mr. Rutherfoord, who waS never much diipoi dto 1'peak in judicatories, threw in this fyliogifm,e What the 1'cribtures do w'arranr, no aflembly maydifeharge, but private meetings for religious exrr-cTev the icriptures do warrant, Mai V. 16. Thenthey that feared the Lord fpd&e often ont to anothert&c. James v 6. V.o-ffs your faults one to anotheryand pray one for another, &e. That;, inin^s couldnot be done in pq'uiic meetings, &c.’ And altho’the earl of 8eaforth there prelent, and thole ofGuthrie'* faction, upbraided this good man forthis, yet it had infiticnce upon the majority of themembers, lo that all the opp'fite party got done,was an act: anent the ordrrir.g of family worfhip.He was alfo one of the Scots commiffioners ap¬pointed anno 1643, to the iVefhpinitcr -fiemMy,and was very much beloved there for bis unparal¬leled fsithhtlneis and zeal in going about his MaC*ter*? bufi'efs It was during this time, that hepub.ifhed Lex Rrx and leveral other learned piecesagiir.ft the Jdraitians Anahaptiils, Indeptnacntf,ar.d other lecHri s that began to prevail and in-ertafe at that time and none ever had the couraget v take up the gauntlet of defiance thrown downby this champion.When the principal bufinefs’ef this afTembly waspretty well Isttled, Mr Rutherfoord, in October,24, 1647, Dioved that k might be i-ecerded in theknbe's book, that the <fUaubly had enjoyed thealiiftance of the comir.illioners of tire cnurch cl;Scotland, ail the time they had been debating and?6 Mr. Ruthcrfoord's Life.perfe^Ving theie four things xr> utioned in tfc? So¬lemn League, viz. I'heir compohng a c r cto; yfor worlhip, an uniform confeffion of faith, aform of church government ana difeipline, andthe public catechiim ;4 which was done in about awe^-k af er he and the r ut returned home.Upon the death of h- 'earner Delmatius afini16)1, the rnagiitrates of Utre ht in Holianc, .be¬ing atmnd nay latisfied as to the learning, piciy,and true zeal of the great iVlr. Rutherfoord, invit¬ed him to the'divinity chair there; but he ccoidnot be periuadeti ilis reajons ciiewhere (whendiffuading another gentleman from going abroad)teem to be exorefled in these words : ‘ Let me in-treat you to be far from ’the thoughts of leavingthis land. 1 fee it and hnd it, that ihe Lord hathcovered the. whole land with a cloud in his anger \but though 1 have been tempted to the like, l hadrather be in Scotiand b fide-angry Jtihs Christ,(knowing he mindeth no evil to us> than in anyEden or garden on the earth.’ From which it isevident, that be chole rather to fuffer afH chon mhis native, country, than to le^ve his charge andflock in time of banger. He continued with themtill the day of his death, in the free and faithfuldilcharge of his dutyWhen the unh-ppy differ race f 11 out betweenthofr called the protcitcri and die public rcloiution-ers. ai.m 1650 and 1651, he Upended the protei-ters* quarrel and gave, faithful warnings ana ntt thefepublic relolutions, and hkewiie during the tin e t iCromwell s uiurpacien, he comenoed ag.finif theprevailing, fedtaries taat then uihired in with theProtect . by virtue‘of hi? toleration And fuchwas his unwearied afUduity and uii gtnee, that hefecoteu to pray cmflaiuly, to preach confian:ly,to c.atcchife corntahtiy, and -to vifit tire lick, tx-• hdi ting them h orn houiu to Louie : to tsacu tstMr. Rutherfocrd's Lip. 17snilch in the fchools, and fpend as much time withthe (indents and young men in fitting them for themini dry, as if he had been f« p.ueftrate from all theworld befides, and yet withal to write as much, asif he had been conftantly ftiut up in his ftudy.But no fooner did the reftoration of Charles II.take place, than the fact of afFiirs began to change,iind after his fore-mentioned bo^k Lex Rex wasburnt at the crofs of Edinburgh, and at the gatesof the new college of ft Andrews, where he wasprofeilor of divinity, the parliament in 16 >i, wereto hay? an indVtoent laid before them agab fthim, and fuch was their humanity, (when e^erybody knew he was a-dyitl? •ttva: thev can led ium-mon him to appear before, them at Edinbtn'gh, toamwer to n charge oT high treafon : But he lsa.1 ahigher tribunal to appear before, where his judgew-i? hi- friend, and was deal before that' timecame, being taken array from the evil to conic.When bo bis death bee, he lamented much thathe was withheld from bearing witnefs to’the workof reformation, fince the roar 1638: and upon the28!h cf Feb he gave a 5arg>* and faithful teit'mo-ry * again ft the finful courfes of that time whichteltimony he {hbicrihcd twelve r'a-,? .before 1'iisdeath, being fub of joy and peace in believing.During, the time of his laft ficknels, he utteredmany lavvury fpec-ches, and often- bioke out in -4kina of faired rapture, exalt in-j am! commendingthe Lm-d eibreial v « h n'bis end drew m ar.lie often called him his defied Mafter, his kinglyKing Some days before his death, he laid, ‘ 1fnall flune ; 1 (bail fe him as he is s 1 fii dl fee him> cign and a.l his fair company with him. and 1lhall have my large (hare. Mine *yes (hail tee rayRedeemer 1 thele very eyes of mine ; and none* "1 hi*. Tcfhmony is printedinur.cdiatsJy preceding this A;«count of his Ufc.i$ Mr. Kuthtrfosrd’s Lip.other for me. f his may item a w ide r bstk is no fancy nor deiofion : it is true. L-*! myLord’s name be eK^ted, and, if Le will, let myname be grinded to pieces, that he may be all inall. If he fliould flay me ten thousand times, Iwill truft.’—He often repeated, .Jrr xv 16. Thy-zvcrds nver• found of tnet and I did eat themwhen exhorting one to diligence, he faid. ‘ Itis no eafy thing to be a Chriftian. For me, I havegot the v.ccory, and Chrift is holding out both hisarms to embrace me ’ At another time, to fumefriends pretend, he faid, ‘ At the beginning of myfi.ff. ri**gs, I had min t own fears, like other {infulmen, led I iheukl faint, and not be carrieu cr di-tabiy thrcugb., and 1 laid thh before the Lord, and jas lure as ever Ire Choke to me in ins ’.vor as lureas his; Spins w-trifTeth' to my heart, he hath ac- -c<. pled my Ir.flxrings He faid to «.?, Fear not,ti e outgate Ihail not be {imply matter of prayer,but mat ter of p*-a;fe t {ai l to the Lord, If heiiiouIV ffiy me five thoufanJ times live t; oii'and, 1VGuld cruft it; him : arid I fpakc vvith much treur-1 ng, fearit.g I /hould not make my pm good ;but as r. m'v as ever be Ip ike to r:>e by ins hpirk,he vri r.cil'cd to tr./ Sv.-art, that his gwee liiouid be ■iiifEcient ’ the n.uriday nigb.t before his deatli, |be joy, n:-v;c1i graved v/-th the itaie of (he puh’-ir, !Le had ths expr- flion, < Horror hath tuk. u hold--on me’ And .afset watds, falling on his own con- .dbmn, he laid, ‘ I n uounce HI that ever he mademe uili and do, as (itititd anti in p -rfedd, as com¬ing from me ; I betake niyfeif to Chritl for .anc-tification as • rli.as juftificudon : Repeatingthefe word ', lie is'made of G d to me ivificm. rrgh- ■teoifr.rjs, fre —'sdaing* l c.ofe with it, let him ce |lb, he is mv ah in athMarch 17th, three gentlmvomcn came to fee"him, and, after exhortirg them tc read the word,v . s> AeAA..1ik-v.,-^.TbtiXJiTr. Ruthtrfoord's Llfi. 19to be much in prayer, and much in communionirkh G '»d, he faid, ‘ My honourable Matter andlovely Lord, my great royal King hath not a matchL. heaven nor in earth I have my own guilt, likeother finful men; but he hath pardoned, loved,vallied, and given me jay uiifprakable and full fJglory I repent not *t' af ever I owned Ins caufe.Xhcfe whom ye ctH Protefters, at'* the witneffe?cf Jettis Chrift. I hope never to dep re from linticmie, nor file with chafe that have burnt thetaufts of Goa’s'wrath fhey have broken theirover-ant offerer than once or twice % bt'.t 1 believehe Lord vU! bitiU Z'sn ■ art repair the ei'rji.\ pio.:esvf cfae;b. Oh ! to ootain mercy to wreltSe w i; iiOoJj for 'heir eternal falvrticn As for this pie!-pyrery, it ha h i1o:-vd'in eppofith n to me mete;C>rs pall. I !:ave my record in heaven, i had noar icular end in view, but was feelcif.g rhe hm:-)ur of God, the thriving of the gofpel in this p’ace,md the good of the row college, that loci, tyMuch I hv.ve left upon the Lord. What per finalevrorgs they have done me, and what grief theyave cccalioni <1 to me I heartily forgive, them,jivl I'ethe niercy to wreft e with God- for i.iracyjo them, and lor the salvation' of rh:m all,’1 he f<nic day, Mcfifi.- James M-Gi!!, J>hnjVard'-aw, William .Vidafit, and Alexander Wed-erburn, ad members of the fame prtibyt^ry wuuim cnmjng to'viik him, he made them welcome,Lid, ‘ .My Lord end Matter is the chief of tenloufand ; none is con prrable to him in liaavea or■arth. Dear brethren, do ail for him ; preach forthrift, pray for .Chrift, feed the Hock committedt> your charge for Chrift : do all tor C rrift : he-i'are of men-pleating ; there is too much of it a-nengft us. ri he n-w coileye hath broke my he?rt,can fay nothing of it j L have left it upon theord of the houfi, anti it hath been, and full ’.3ZH Jtfr. B uthcrjo' rcV't JLije.my defir?, that h<' may dwell In this foc! *fy and,«hat the youth may be f j with fous ' krsc.dedge *——Af^-r this, he fai i < Oca brethren, it mayfeem prefumptuous in ni^ a partiru.a man to (enda commiffion to a pretbytery — nd Mr. M'Gillreplying, It was no prefumptio he. continued,—* Dear brethren, take a commiflion. from me, adying man, to them to apoesr for God and hiscr.vfe, and adhere to the doctrine of the covenant,and haTe a ere of the flock committed to theircharge, let them feed the flock out of love p-’toc'ifor God, vilit and catechize for God, and do allfor God : beware of men-plealino, ‘he chief Shep¬herd will appear fhortlv, &V I have h en a fln-ful man. and have had mine own fai dogs; butmy Lord hath pardoned and*acap'ed rr.y labours.,I adhere, to the cmfe and covenant ; and refoivnever to depart from tl-.e prof efi at ion * again ft thcontroverted afpmhHes. I am the man 1 \va«an, ft ill for keeping the government of the ki k olSee'and entire, and would not, for ^ theuthndwoiids, have had th.e leaft hand in tire burning ofthe caufes of God’s wrath Gh ! for {tracetowr'eftle with God for their iah-a' onMr- Vi!ant having prayed at h sh-Ortat wv'ytccii.thefr leave, he renewed his chart,., to thrmgto. feed the flock■•oitt’.wf love-. - U e next mornirgjias he recovered cut • of a fainting, in wh;ch tHL-jBwho looked or, exp <Tr.'u hi- dliTolutc-n, hr faitj*' l fed, I fed, I believe, I joy and rejoice. E feejon mnnnja ’ Mr. Blair. ,whole praife i: in thchurches) bein ' nrsft-nt, he took a liti e wine in•fpoon to refrefh himfdf, being then ver- weahe laid to him, « Ye feed on dantie; in heaver.* This.appears rq be thefe papers bearing tiie name of i<prefem; tion, proporitirhs, protcft.itions, &c. given in by hinend Me firs. Cant and Li viagfton, to ;he Afinitiers and Liut;iera at Edinburrh, July 14, 1654.Mr. B.utbfrjvora s Life- 313n3 think nothing of our cor-iiais on earth’ . H®'aniVvered, ‘ They are all but dun,, ; but they grsChrift’s creatures, and, out of obedience to hiscommand, I take them Mine eyes ihall feemy Redeemer, I know he fhall frand at tfce !aftclay upon the earth, fend I fhall be caught up inthe ciouds to meet him in the air, and [ fhaU beever with him; and what would you have more?there is an end.’ And ftretclrhyg out his hands,he faid again, ‘ There is an end.’ And a littleafter he Tud, ‘ 1 have been a {ingle man, but Ifund at tire beft pafs that ever a man did : C'lr ftis mine, an.’ I am his.’—And fpoke much cf thewhite (tone and new name. Mr. B^ir fwho lovedwith ail his heart to hear Chrift commen-f d laidto him. again,—! What think ye now of Chriit j*’Xo which he anfwered, ‘ I {hail live and adorehim Glory, glory to my Creator and my Re¬deemer for ever ! Glory fiiines in Emmanuel’s Ian 1 ’In the afternoon of that dav, he faid, ‘ Oh ! thatall my brethren w the public may know what a-matter I have ferved, and what peace f have; thisday I lhall fleep in Chrifl, ana when I awake, }fhall be iatisfied with his bkenefs. This night ih?.Uclofe the door, and put my anchor within, the vail,and 1 lha’1 go away in a fleep by five of the clockhi the morning,’ which exa£Vy jfdl out) Tho*he was very weak, he had ot^en this cxp. eflion,Oh ! for arms to embrace him T Oh ! for a c eHtuned h.;rp !’ He tx ortee Dr Colvil a-fnin whocomplied with Prelacy afterward) to adhere to thegovernment cf the Church cf Scotland, and to thedextrine of the covenant, and to have a care ton the youth with f und knowledge. And thedoctor being the profelior ot the new college hetold him, That he heartily forgave him all thewrongs he had done him. He fpoke iikewi e toMr. Honey man, ^afterward bilhop Honey mm)21 Air. Rutherfccrd s Life.who came to him, faying, • i ell the prefby- 1terv to anfwer for God and his caufe and cove-nan faying, • f'he cafe is defperate. let them bein thtir du'y.'—Then dire&ing his Speech to Mr.Cotvil and Mr. ‘doneymar>J he fiid, < Stick to it.You may think it an eafy thing in me. a dying man,that am now gain. <uit of the reach of all that |men can do; blithe, before whom 1 hand, knows, [that I dare advife no colleague cr brother to dowhat I would not cordially do myfe’f, upon all |hazard ; and as for the cauies of God’s wrath, that jmen have now condemned, tell Mr. James Wo.'.d .from me, that I had rather lay down my hcaa on ja fcaffold and have it chopped off many times,(were it p ffibleV before’I h^d paffed from themAnd then to Mr. Honeyman, he laid.—< Tell Mr.j:.Wood, I heartily forgive him all the wrongs hehas done me, and dcilre him from me, to declare jhimfeif the man that hr is fiill, lor the govern- jment of the church of •Scotland.'Afterwards, when fome ipake to him cf hisformer painfalnefs and Githtulnels in the minif- ;try, he laid, ‘ I difclaim all that : the port that Iwould be at, is redemption and forgtvrncfs thro’ 5his blood, Thou JJjalt jheiv me the path cj life in Viky fight is fulnefs of joy : tiiere is nothing nowwbetwix. me and the relurieftion, hut To iL:y tk:u\fbali be with mt'tn paradfe.' Mr. biair faying, tlialllI praile the Lord for ail the mercier he has < oneand is to do for you ? He attfwered, ‘ Oh ! for awell tuned harp’ io his child, he faid, ‘ I haveagain left you upon the Lord : it tv ay be, you wdl itell this to others, that the lines are fallen to me mpplcafant places i I have goto goodly heritage, l bhls «.the Loru that he gave me counlel.’Thus, by five o’clock in the morning, (as he ■himfeif foretold) it was faid unto him. Come up<hither, and he gave up the ghott, and the re*;:<•^3Mr. Rutherfoor'Vs Life.!rowned eagle took its flight unto the mountainsfpices.In the forcfaid manner died the famcu; Mr*utherfhord, who may juftly be accounted among|e TufFerers of that time ; for ft:rely he was afcrryr both in h:s own defign and refo’ution, andthe rfeflgn and determination of mm. Fewf?n ever ran fo long a race without cetTuion, foimilantly, fo unweariedly, and fo unblameably.:wo things (rarely to be found in one nvan^ wereijiinent in iiim, viz. a quick invention and found[jlgment, and thefe accompanied with a homely,' t clear expreflion and graceful elocution ; fotfct futh as kn.w him heft, were in a (trait whe-r to admire him mo . for his penetrating wit1 fablime genius in the fchools, and peculiar£tneft in difputes and matters of contioveriy,his farni iar condelceofion in the pulpit, w'he:ewas one of the mold moving and afTii&ionatechtrs in his time, or perhaps in any age of therch—To funt up all in one word. Me feemsOf one of the molt refplendent lights taat ev^rife in tiiis horifonIn all his writings, he breathes the true fi)‘r-ir pfsdon but in his every way admirable letters, hes to have outdone himfelf, as well as everyV elfe, which althouuh jefted on by the pro¬wits of this age, becaufe of fotne homeiy andliiiar eTtpreffions in them, it muft be owned, bytwho have any relifla for true piety, that they•tain fu h fubiime flights of devotion, thV they|t at once ravilh and eaify every iober, ferious,underhanding reader.mong the pofthumous works of the laboriousRu Uerfoord, are, his letters; the trial and trirKjth of faith ; Chrift’ dying and drawing f fm-Infc and a difeourte on prayer; all n .-dfa-A dUcouife oa ike coveawi,, on liberty of24Afr. Rutherfocrd’s Life.confc;cnce; a i'urvc) of fpiritual antichrift ; a fuvey of antincmianifni ; ai tichrift ffdrmed ; an ! Iveral other cortroverted pieces, fudi as Lex Re.the due right of church government; the div;right of church government ; and a praceah'e p!for preftytery ; are for the moft pa-'t in quarto, |alfo his iummary cf church difeipihae, and a trlrife on the divine influence of the hpirit. Th|are alfo a variety of his fcrmons, in print, feme Iwhich were preached before both houies of piliamen1, nnnis 1644 an * ^45, He wrote alupon provitierce, but this being in Latin, is 01in the hands of a ftw ; as are abb the greater yof his other work', being fo ftldom re-publiih IThere i§ alfo a volume of fermons, facramcrdifcdufi'eSj cjV not yet publHJiedWhat tongue ! what pen, or ft ill cf mes.Can famous Rutherfoori comaiend !His jearning juftiy rais’d h:s fame,True aoodnels die: adorn his name.He did converfe with things above,Acquainted with Emmanuel’s love.Moll erthedex he v as ar d fouud,And many erhers did confound.Fcf Z on’s King, and Zion’s cauf ,And Scotland’s covenanted la us,Mofl cbnflantly he did contend.Until,his time was at an endAt lafl he wan to full fruitiohOf that which he had feen in vifieri.An Epitaph on Lis GraveJlcm.®ade>-ytb, 1735.FINES,