THESnug Bit of Land in the Ocean.TO WHICH ARE ADDED, _Chloe how Blubber’d is thy Cheeks.RUNDY S SONG in the FARMER.THE MARRIAGE ACT.The beautiful Markets of Glasgow.THE WEDDING DAY.FATHER DENNIS'S COMFORT.G L A S G O W,' Printed by ] & M. ROB F R T SON,'Sakmarket, 1800.( 1 )( > )The SNUG PIT of LAN^ in the GCP.AN"l In rre rrldd of the fes, like a touch rasn of war,- P«H away poll a wav, yo ho ! there, 'Stands aji iflsne, furpaffing sll others by far;if'ou doubt it. you’ve only to go there;Py Neptune twas huilr upon Freedom’s firm Safe,Ariel for ever *t ill isfi, I’ve a notion ;An me world I defy ter product uich a place,Ptril *w;iy pul! awiy pul! way. pull, I fay, -As the fnug bit of and in the ocean.Trcm 'he oppofite fliore puff’d with arrogant ptkle,^ eu! f.'v?v ! pul! a ; y l fr, (jfever}They’ve oft fwore,as how they would come alongfide,AnO defi,o the po r ifiand for tver ;Put Br!tan*cia is made, of fuch durable ftuflj■ jtd fi i'i htly lilt’s rjga’J, I’ve a notion,Shed fann give the fauc, invaders enough,Pull away, ttc.If they touch'd at the land in the ocean.There was Howe, ever bold in t e klorious cau/f,Pu'l away, pull away, fo flour, boys.V/ho pain’d on the firfVday < f June fetch applaufe,And Monfieur he pur to the r ut boysThe next was St Vincent, who lock’d up a dull,As the Spaniards can tel!, fve a notionTor they lyv re nor to firike; fays he, damme butPul! away, etc fypu murt,To the lads of the land in the ocean.( 3 )..A bam Di’HCAHcamencit/twssinaatumnyou know,Pull away, pul! away, fo joily.That he maJc big Mynb. er Hrlke his flag to a foCyAgainft \vh >tn all refinance was folly ;And rh< y fint, as you know,if yon’renot quiteaduncf,But a fad ftory home, I’ve a notion ;Eo Duk^a.< he heat a whole SV’isrER at once,Puli away, etc'What d’ye think-of the land of the ocean ?Now the Frenchmen again have come in for thtiiPul! away, poll away, fo hearty ; (flute,For Iselson has fet all the world in a flare,And tand-lock’d even the great Bonaparte,And we’d beat them again, Ihotild thiiiMoimchs in-rtut they’re all pretty trek, I’ve a notion ; (oine,Then may vidlory’s f'wcid to the ovive refiga,Pull away, etc.And peace crown the land in the ocean.Tho’ owe, Vincent. Duncan and Nelfon have told.Pull away, pull away, again boysThat our Tars now turpafi ajl the iferces of old,.nd prov’d the ( felves true Bruilh b ys;French pride was fuch, thought reiand a piece,Fit to fend-a few Thieves* what a notion 1W t en d; anen they met, were foon in difgrace,Pull away, pu[l awa;, puli away fa’sAnd came i tiioners to the Land in the Ocean.GdLOE now >5LU > LR D is thy FAGfclDF.AR Chioe how blubber'd is that preoy facc ?thy chctks sll on Sre, and thy hair ai uncuti’d 1Prithee quit that C’price, acd'as old FalflafF fays,let’s talk a li-r.ie like folks of this world.How car/fi th u preforr.e thou ha ft leave to deflro?,the beauties which Venus but lent to t! y ket ping?Thole looks were dt ftgti’d tohnlpire love and joy;niore ordinary eyes may (erv’e people for v.eeping.To be Vex d at a tnlle or two that vV;it,my' ju.lgemeiu at once and my p. (lion you wrong.You rake thar tor faff which u iiltcarce be found ^it;on' life, nnifl o:r f ear to the truth of a long ?kTheGod of' us vetfe-men you know child the—Surijdjow after his journey he fets up .his ’ell ;Jf at mnrr.V.g. o’er eatth ’tis hi» fancy to run,at night he reclines cn his Thetis’s bread.So when I quite wearied with w^ndoting all day,t tree my delight in the evening come ;To matter what heautitT I meet in the Way,they were but m> vilfts, fc*i thou art my homefThen hniHi dear Chloe, this paftoxal war,and let us like ho-ras and *.tdja agree,For thou art. than Lydia, much brighter by far,as he "was a poet luperior to ir e.(“t ) # let) # (t) 0 (T ) (t) # (t)11 U Tl O 'f’3 SONG in the F A R M E R.A Flaxen-hendfd cow-boy, as Simple a» maybe,And ntxtn fimplc pi w-boy I whiflie1 o’er the lee,But now a fancy footman, I firut in worfltd lace,And loon I’ii be a butler, and wag my jolly face !When fieward Fm promoted, FJ1 friip a trades¬man’s biil,My msfttr’s coffers empty, my pockets for to fill;When rolling in my chariot, fo great a man I’ll he.You'd fi rget the little plotv-boy that whittl'd o’erthe leeI’ll buy votes at elections, but when i’ve made the pel f.I’ll ft nd poll for the path ftuent, & then yotein myfelf;"Whatever's good for me, Sir, l never will uppofe,W hen all my ay’s are fold off, why then i’ll fel my no’s.i’ll bawl harangue, and paragraph, with iptechescharm the ear, (Peers jAnd w)htn I’m tired on my legs, then 1*11 fet up aIn court or city honour, fo great a man 1M be (lee.You’ll fci ki the little pimv.boy that whilll’d o*er theTIE MARRIAGE ACT.TH E fool that is wealthy is fore of a bride;For riches, likefig-icaver, their nakednefshide:*Th« Have that is poor mult llaive all his lite,in a batchelot’s bed, without miftrefs or wife.In good days of yore they ne’er troubh d their heads,In fettling of jointures, or making of deeds ;But Adam and Eve, when they fir ft enter i coorfe.E’en took one another, for better, for worfe.Then prithee, dear Chloe ne’er aim to be great;Let love be thy jointure ; ne’er mind an eflate :You can never be poor, who have all thofe charmsAnd i fhall be rich, when i’ve you iu mine arms.( 6 )Tlie Beautiful MARKETS of GLASGOW.S' ' Ood people of Glafgow, give ear to my hf,v. * And learn from my talc, and go wifer away jConcerning your Mirkets, I votv and declare,There’s few in the nation can with them compare.There s all forts of food to plcafure your mind.The Butchers are honelt, free, frank, and kind.Meat of all kinds, comes here in great (lore.With health to enjoy it, what can ye want more!There’s filh, fleth, and fowl, with herbs & roots/There’sclothof all kinds, there’s good fhoi S&boots*Tnere’s butter & cheefe, there’s pudding & pye,And it you vs money, may drink when you’re dry.There’s eggs, there’soyflers, there’sribbons Strings,There s itraw hats St bonnets, with many fine tnings, 11 here’s wheat, there's barley, good oats & good rye.If reafon doth guide you, you’ll go there and ouy.All ranks of people, now hither do come, *With llore o' provdBon, contented go home.The pocf .in the marke , may cope with the rich,Their money’s as good, fho’ they’ve not fo much.Yet flat check d Hobby, with fanftify’d grace,Defpifeth the market with his muflur face ;Ye fimple beware of the feltlth and flyThere’s nought like a market, to fell or to buy.Some butcher’s there be, flill keep up a ftall,To fuit their own ends bangs meat ‘gainit the wall,I il id them to know, the law is fevere, (mare.We may catch them napping, as Mofs cstch’d his'( 7 ) .* Our pentlemen here hath nniOi’H a plan,i EftabHfhM a mirket, a credit »o man,! So gram? the defijjn, for the good of the poor,' Which will he encourag’d, til. time is no more.THE WEDDING DAY.XT ] H AT virgin or fhepherd. in valley or grove,* v will envy my innocent lays.The ibng of the heart, and the otfspring of love,when fung in my Corydon’s p'asfe.O’er hrook and o’er brake a1! he hies to the bow’r,how lightfome my fh^oherd can »rip ;And fure when of love he deferibes the foft pow’r,the honey-dew drops from his lips.And fure when of love, etc.How fweet is the primrofe, and violet how fweet,and f veet is the eglantine breezeBut Corydon’s kifs when by moonlight we meet,to me is far fweeter than rh feI bludi at his raptures, I hear alf his vows,I figh when I offer to fprak ;And with wh it delight my fond bofom o’erflows,« when I feci the foft touch, of his cheek.And with what delight, etc.Refponfive and fhrill be the notes from the fpr^y,let the pip - through the village refoun^ ;tie fmiles in each face. O ye ibepherds to-day,and ring the hem merrily round :Your favours prepare my companions with fpeed,allifl me my blufnes o hide,A twelve month ago on hss day I agreed,to be my lov’d CorydonVbride.A twelvemonth ago, sic.( 8 )FATHER DIfNNIS’S COMFORT.YOU areo'd, Father Dennis, the young manfaid,your locks that are left, are quite grey;You are hale. Father Dennis, a hearty old man}now tell me the reafon, I pray.In the days of my youth. Father Dennis reply’d*I remember’d that youth would fly faft :And abus’d not my health nor my vigour at firiT,that I never might want them.at lalt.You are old, Father Dennis, the young man faid,and plcafures with youth pafs away,And yet you regret not the days that are gone,now tell me the reafon, I pray.In the days of my youth Father Dennis reply’d,I remember'd that youth could not latijI thought of the future whatever I did,that i never might grieve for the pa ft.You are old, Father Dennis, the young man faid,and life muit be haflening away,You’re chearful, and love to conv -rfe upon death,now tell me’the reafon, I pray.I am cheaffui indeed. Father Dennis rep’y’d,let the caiifc rby attention engage vIn the days cf my youth, I remember’d tny God,■ and he has not forgotten my age.GJafgow, Printed by J & VT -Hobertfori,• SakmarkOj 1800.