THE LIFEANDWONDERFUL PROPHECIESOFDONALD CARGILL.Who was Executed at the Crossof Edinburgh, on the 26th July, 1680.For his adherence to the Covenant,and Work ofREFORMATIONGLASGOW :FBIKTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER 9.123.( ^ OF SCOTLAND ^:*nu jhhta/./.paioansoiri ju maaviow,0 1•iitUOHAo a^A^oa IsaoiO odj is: hoiuooy.'A ?i;v/ oil’//.0891 ,'{IoI. xii92 gHi no ,il^iucfnibv,£ lo,lnBn3YoO oHj ot sonoiodba eid iorllo jhoVf i)nB: flTODSAJO,»#sjasBJieoii &ht hoi aarnit'iV‘ Q^AJT032 ^0 '' }S--^0^ .3,AC 3 -Till#/ /o 'OOfioimorri vbcoiifi lo bunn99dbc« THB ,h\T .lidhiiq^i\U bus 'iwia bnfclf*diP^L^MR DONALD CARGILL.Mr Cargill seems to have been born some timeabout the year 1610. He was eldest son of amost respected family in the parish of Kattray.Mter he had been some time in the schools ofAberdeen, he went to St Andrew’s, where hav-ng perfected his course of philosophy, his fathermessed upon him much to study divinity, in or¬der for the ministry; but he thought the work.vas too great for his weak Shoulders, and requeu¬ed to command him to any other employment h^jleased. But his father still continuing to urgeaim, he resolved to set apart a day of private'asting, to seek the Lord’s mind therein. Andidler much wrestling with the Lord by prayer,;.he third chapter of Ezekial, and chiefly thesevords in the first verse, ’’Son of man, eat this rollmd go speak unto the house of Israel”, made aitrong impression on his mind, so that he dursto longer refuse his father’s desire, but dedicatedt iumself wholly unto that uiiice.L After this, he got a call to the Barony Church'jd Glasgow. ( It was so ordered by Divine pro-'idence, that the very first text the presbyteryhffdered him to preach upon, was these words inthe third of Ezekiel, already mentioned, by whichhe was more confirmed, that he had God’s callto this parish. This parish had been long vacant,by reason that two ministers of the Resolution-party, viz. Messrs Young and Blair, and stilliopposad the settlement of such godly men as hadlbeen called by the people. But in reference totMr Cargill’s call, they were in God’s providence;much bound up from their wonted oppositionHere Mr Cargill, perceiving the lightness ant;unconcerned behaviour of the people under theword, was much discouraged thereat, so that heresolved to return home, and not accept the call,which, when he was urged by some godly min-nisters not to do, and his reason asked, he answered they are a rebellious people. The ministers solicited him to stay, but in vain. Buiwhen the horse was drawn, and he just going tobegin his journey, being in the house of MDurham, when he had saluted several of hi:Christian friends that came to see him take horseas he was taking farewell of a certain godbwoman, she said to him, u Sir, you have proimised to preach on Thursday, and have you apipointed a meal for poor starving people, and wn!you go away and not give it ? if you do, the curs',of God will go with you.” This so moved himithat he durst not go away as he intended; buisitting down, desired her and others to pray foihim. So he remained and was settled in thailparish, >vhere he continued to exercise his ministry with great success, to the unspeakable satis:faction both of his own parish, and all the godl Ithat hisard and knew him, until that, by the mt!itrJl51'.di happy llestoration of Charles II. Prelacy wa*11.again restored.Upon the 26th of May following, the day con-'secrated in commemoration of the said Restora¬tion, he had occasion to preach in his own church,it being his ordinary week-day’s preaching, when. ilie saw an unusual throng of people come to hear(him, thinking he had preached in compliance withj that solemnity. Upon entering the pulpit, he.said, ‘ We are not come here to keep this day up-non the account for which others keep it. Weit thought once to have blessed the day, whereiniljthe King came home again, but now we thinkiii we shall have reason to curse it; and if any of: ’ you come here in order to the solemnizing of thisi (day, we desire you to remove.’ And enlargingyiupon these words in the 9th of Hosea, Rejoiceomot, O Israel, &c. he said, ‘ This is the first step:t|of our going a-whoring from God; and whoeverjtof the Lord’s people this day are rejoicing, their|jjoy will be like the crackling of thorns under auipot, it will soon be turned to mourning ; he (mean-|iiing the king) will be the wofullest sight ever theJljpoor church of Scotland saw ; wo, wo, wo untoliihim, his name shall stink while the world standeUjfor treachery, tyranny, and lechery.’j This did exceedingly enrage the malignanttiparty against him, so that being hotly pursued,ijlie was obliged to abscond, remaining sometimespin private houses, and sometimes lying all nightI" without, among broom near the city, yet neveromitting any proper occasion of private preaching,catechising, and visiting of families, and otherministerial duties, but at length, when the church-■6es \\ ePe all vacated of Presbyterians by an act ofCouncil, 1662, Middleton sent a band of soldiersto apprehend him, who, coming to the church, sfound him not, he having providentially just step. *ped out of the one door a minute before they cameiin at the other ; whereupon they took the keys ofthe church door with them, and departed.—Inithe mean while the Council passed an act of con- ?tinement banishing him to the north side of theTay, under penalty of being imprisoned, andi ;prosecuted as a seditious person—But this sen- -tence he no ways regarded.During this time, partly by grief for the ruinof God’s work in the land, and partly by the toils jjand inconveniences of his labours and accommo-ation, his voice became so broken, that he couldnot be heard by many together, which was a soreexercise to him, and discouragement to preach in*he fields; but one day Mr Blackatter coming topreach near Glasgow, he essayed to preach withhim, and standing on a chair, as his custom was, ihe lectured on Is. xliv. 3. “I will pour water on :him that is thirsty, &c.” The people were much -discouraged, knowing his voice to be sore broken,, Ilest they should not have heard by reason of thegreat confluence. But it pleased the Lord tot iloose his tongue, and to restore his voice to suchi distinct clearness, that none could easily exceedlhirh; and not only his voice, but Id's spirit wasi!So enlarged, and such a door of utterance givem -him, that Mr Blackatter, succeeding him, said1 ito the people, £ Yc that have such preaching,,have no need to invite strangers to preach to you jmake good use of your mercy.’ After this ha 1ii continued to preach without the city, a great mui-iititude attending and profiting by his ministry,■ i being wonderfully preserved in the midst of dan-■ gers, the enemy several times sending out to'watchi him, and catch something from his mouth where¬of they might accuse him, &c.In October 1665, they made a public searchfor him in the city. But he, being informed,11took horse, and rode out of town, and at a nar-irow pass of the way, he met a good number ofi musqueteers. As he passed them, turning to an-i other way on the right-hand, one of them asked::him, Sir, what o’clock is it? he answered, It isisix. Another of them knowing his voice, said,I There is the man we are seeking Upon heav-iing this, he put spurs to his horse, and so es-■icaped.For about three years he usually resided in the( house of one Margaret Craig, a very godly wo-rman, where he lectured morning and evening tojsuch as came to hear him. And tho’ they searcheililstrictly for him here, yet providence so orderedJit, that he was either casually or purposely ab-isent, for the Lord was often so gracious to him,Ithat he left him not without some notice of ap-t oroaching hazard. Thus, one Sabbath, as hedwas going to Woodside to preach, as he was((about to mount his horse, having one foot in thelistirrup, he turned about to his man, and said, I(must not go yondei- to-day—And in a little aparty of the enemy came there in quest of him jbut missing the mark they aimed at, they fell up*on the people, by apprehending and imprisoning Isereral of them.Another of his remarkable escapes was at amarch made for him in the city, where they cameto his chamber, and found him not, being provi¬dentially in another house, that night Butwhat is most remarkable, being one day preach¬ing privately in the house of one Mr Callander,they came and beset the house; the people puthim and another into a window, closing the win¬dow up with books. The search was so strict,that they searched the very ceiling of the house,until one of them fell through the low er loft.—Had they removed but one of the books, theywould certainly have found him. But the Lordso ordered that they did it not; for as one of thesoldiers w’as about to take up one of them, tliCjmaid cried to the commander, that he was goingto take her master’s books, and he was orderedto let them be. Thus narrowly he escaped thisdanger. j • miTh us he continued until the 23d of November J|1667, that the Council, upon information of abreach of his confinement, cited him to appearbefore them on the 11th of January thereafter.But w hen he w'as apprehended, and compearedbefore the Council and strictly examined, where¬in he was most singularly strengthened to bearfaithful testimony to his Master’s honour, andIds persecuted cause and truths; yet by the in¬terposition of some persons of quality, his ownfriends, and his wife’s relations, he was dismissed,and presently returned to Glasgow, and there >'performed all the ministerial duties.9Some time before Bothvvell, notwithstandingiall the searches that were made for him by thelenemy, which were both strict and frequent, hepreached publicly for eighteen Sabbath-days to(multitudes, consisting of several thousands, with¬in a little more than a quarter of a mile of thecity of Glasgow; yea, so near it, that the psalms,when singing, were heard through several parts,lot it; and yet all this time uninterrupted.At Both well, being taken by the enemy, andstruck down to the ground with a sword, seeingnothing but present death for him having received'several dangerous wounds the head, one of the' soldiers asked his name ; he told him it was Don-laid Cargill; another asked him, if he was a min¬ister? He answered, he was; whereupon they lethim go. When his wounds were examined, hefeared to ask if they were mortal, desiring, in ad-i mission to God, to live, judging that the Lordhad yet further work for him to accomplish.Some time after the battle at Bothwell, hewas pursued from his own chamber out of town,rand forced to go through several thorn hedges.1 But he was no sooner out, than he saw a troopI of dragoons just opposite to him; back he could> not go, soldiers being posted every where to catch: him; upon which he went forward, near by ther troop, who looked to him, and he to them, until;i he got past. But coming to the place of the waterl at which he intended to go over, he saw another1 troop standing on the other side, who called toii him but he made them no answer. And goingf about a mile up the water, he escaped, and preach-ned at Langside next Sabbath, without interrup-10tion. At another time, being in a house beset Iwith soldiers, he went through the midst of them, j!they thinking it was the goodman of the houseand escaped.After Bothwell, he fell into a deep exerciseanent his call to the ministry; but, ! y the graceand goodness of God, he soon emerged out ofthat, and also got much light anent the duty ofthe day, being a faithful contender against the1enemy’s usurped power, and against the sinful'compliance of ministers, in accepting the indul-jgence, with indemnities, oaths, bonds, and alfother corruptions.There was a certain woman in Rutherglenjabout two miles from Glasgow, who, by the in¬stigation of some, both ministers and professors,was persuaded to advice her husband to go butonce to hear the curate, to prevent the family be¬ing reduced ; which she prevailed with him to do.'But going the next day after to milk her cows,'two or three of them dropt down dead at her feet,and Satan, as she conceived, appeared unto her;which cast her under sad and sore exercises anddesertion; so that she was brought to questionher interest in Christ, and all that had formerlypassed betwixt God and her soul, and was oftentempted to destroy herself, and sundry times at-temped it: Being before known to be an eminentChristian, she was visited by many Christians jbut without success : still crying out she was un¬done ; she had denied Christ, and he had deniedher. After continuing a long time in this exer¬cise, she cried for Mr Cargill, who came to her,but found her distemper so strong, that for sev-Hi eral visits he was obliged to leave her as he found*! her to his no small grief. However, after settingI some days apart on her behalf, he at last cameagain to her; but finding her no better, still re¬jecting all comfort, still crying out, that she hadno interest in the mercy of God, or merits of. Christ, but had sinned the unpardonable sin ; he,i looking in her face for a considerable time, tookr out his Bible, and naming her, said, “ I have thisday a commission from my Lord anil Master, torenew the marriage contract betwixt you andhim ; and if ye will not consent, I am to requireyour subscription on this Bible, that you are wilT-i to quit all right, interest in, or pretence unto him| and then he offered her pen and ink for that pur-ijj pose. She was silent for some time ; but at last| cried out, “ O ! salvation is come unto this house.I I take him; I take him on his own terms, as her is offered unto me by his faithful ambassador.”J From that time her bands were loosed., One time Mr Cargill, Mr Walter Smith, andii some other Christian friends, being met in afriend’s house in Edinburgh, one of the companytold him of the general bonding of the Western; gentlemen for suppressing field meetings, andj putting ail out of their grounds who frequentedI them. After sitting silent for some time, he an¬swered, with several heavy sighs and groans,“ The enemy have been long filling up the cup ;and ministers and professors must have time to[fill up their’salso; and it shall not be full till en¬emies and they be clasped in one another’s arms;i and then, as the Lord lives, he will bring thewheel of his wrath an<l justice over them alto¬gether.”Sometime after the beginning of the year 1680,he retired toward the Frith of Forth, where hecontinued until that scuffle at Queensferry, whereworthy Haugh-head w'as killed, and he sorolvwounded. But escaping, a certain woman foundhim in a private place, to the south of the town,and tying up his wounds with her head-cloths,conducted him to the house of one Robert Run-tens, in Carlowrie, where a surgeon dressed hiswounds and Mrs Puntens gave him some warmmilk, and he lay in their barn all night. Fromthence he went to the south, and next Sabbathpreached at Cairnhill, somewhere adjacent toLoudon, in his blood and wounds; for no dangercould stop him from going about doing good.His text was in Heb. xi. 32. And what shall Imore say, for time would fail me to tell of Gideon,&c. At night, some persons said to him, Wethink, Sir, preaching and praying go best withyou when your danger and distress are greatest.He said, it had been so, and he hoped it wouldbe so, the more that enemies and others did thurstat him that he might full, the more sensibly tireLord bad helped him; and then (as it had beento himself) he repeated these words, The Lord ismy strength and song, and has become my sal¬vation, in the 118th Psalm, which was the psalmhe sung upon the scaffold.After this, he and Mr Richard Cameron metand preached together in Derrneid-muir, andother places', until that Mr Cameron was slainut Airs-moss, and then he went north, where, in131 the month of September following, he had amost numerous meeting at the Torwood, near: Stirling, where he pronounced the sentence of. excommunication, against some of the most vio-1, lent persecutors of that day, as formally as thei present state of things could then permit. Sometime before this, it is said, he was very remote,[ i and spoke very little in company ; only to some] he said, he had atout to give with the trumpetI that the Lord had put in his hand, that w-ouldH sound in the ears of many in Britain, and otheri places in Europe also. It is said, that no body1. knew what he was to do that morning, exceptMr Walter Smith, to whom he imparted thei thoughts of his heart. When he began, some: friends feared he would be shot. His landlord,i in whose house lie had been that night, cast hiscoat and ran for it. In the forenoon, he lecturedon Ezek. xxi. 25. &c. and preached on 1 Cor.v. 13. and then discoursed some time on the na¬ture of excommunication, and then proceeded tothe sentence: after which, in the afternoon, hei preached from Lam. iii. 31, 32. For the Lord willi not cast off for ever.The next Lord’s day, he preached at Fallow-hill, in the parish of Livingstone. In the pre-! face, he said, “ I know I am and will be con-> demned by many, for excommunicating thosewicked men, but condemn me who will, I knowI am approven of by God, and am persuaded,that what I have done on earth, is ratified inheaven; for, if ever I knew the mind of God,and was clear in my call to any piece of my gen¬eration-work, it was that. And I shall give you14two signs, that ye intiy know I am in no tlelu*sion; (1.) If some of these men do not find thatsentence binding upon them, ere they go oil' thestage, and be obliged to confess it, &c. (2.) Ifthese men die the ordinary death of men, thenGod hath not spoken by me.About the 22d of October following, a longand severe proclamation was issued out againsthim and his followers, wherein a reward of 5000metks w'as offered for apprehending him, &c—Next month, Governor Afiddleton, having beenfrustrated in his design upon Mr Cargill atQueensferry, laid another plot for him, by con¬sulting one James Henderson in Ferry, who, byforging and signing letters, in the name of BailieAdam in Culross, and some other serious Chris¬tians in Fife, for Mr Cargill to come over, andpreach to them at the hill of Beith. According¬ly, Henderson went to Edinburgh with the let¬ters, and, after a meist diligent search, found himin the West Bow. Mr Cargill being wilting toanswer the call, Henderson proposed to go be¬fore, and have a boat, ready at the Ferry whenthey came; and that he might know them, hedesired to see Mr Cargill’s cloth, Mr Skeen andMr Boig being in the same room. In the meantime, he had Middleton’s soldiers lying at theMutton-hole, about three miles from Edinburgh.Mr Skeen, Archibald Stuart, Mrs Muir, andMarion Hervey, took the way before, on foot:Mr Cargill and Mr Boig being to follow on horse¬back. Whenever they came to the place, thesoldiers spied them; but Mrs Muir escaped andwent ami sloppsti Mr:Cargill and Mr Boig, whofled back to Edin-bdbgW I« ^nivaiq »sw HtgiaOAfter this rettiarkuble escape, Mr Cargill, see¬ing nothing but the violent flames of treacheryand tyranny against him, above all others, retiredfor about three months to England, where theLord blessed his labours to the conviction andedification of many. In the time of his absence'that delusion of the Gibbites arose, from oneJohn Gib sailor in Borrow-stounnesS, who, withother three men, and twenty six women, ventedand maintained the most strange delusions. Sometime after, Mr Cargill returned from England,i and was at no small pains to reclaim them, butwith little success. After his last conferencewith them, at Darngavel, in Cambusnethen par-i ish, he came next Sabbath, and preached at ;theUnderbank wood, below Lanark, and from thenceI to Loudon-hill, where he preached upon a fasti day, being the 5th of May. Here he intendeoi only to have preached once, and to have bap-i tized some children. His text was, 4 No man tha‘1 hath followed me in the regeneration, &c.’ Wher;i sermon was over, and the children baptized, morei children came up*, whereupon friends pressed himto preach in the afternoon ; which he did, from-these words, 4 Weep not for me,’ &c. In the meanwhile the enemy at Glasgow getting notice ofthis meeting, seized all tbe horses in and aboutthe town, that they could come by, and mountedin quest of him ; yea, such was their haste an«fury, that one of the soldiers, who happened tobe behind the rest, riding furiously down thestreet called the Stockwell, at mid-day, rode over1Ga child, ami killed her on the spot. Just as MrCargill was praying at the close, a lad alarmedthem of the enemy’s approach. They having nosentinels that day which was not their ordinary,were surprised, so that some of them who hadbeen at Pentium!, Both well, Airs-moss, and o-ther dangers, were never so seized with fear,some of the women, throwing their children fromthem. In this confusion Mr Cargill was run¬ning straight on the enemy ; but Gavin Wother-spoon and others haled him to the moss, untowhich the people fled. The dragoons fired hardupon them, but there were none either killed ortaken that day.About this time, some spoke to Mr Cargill ofhis preaching and praying short. They said,“ O Sir, it is long betwixt meals, and we are ina starving condition ; all is good, sweet, andw holesome, that you deliver, but why do you sostraiten us?” He said, “ Ever since 1 bowed aknee in good earnest to pray, I never durstpreach, and pray with my gift; and when myheart is tiot affected, and comes not up with mymouth, I always think it time to quit it. Whatcomes not from the heart, I have little hope itwill go to the hearts of others Then he repeat¬ed these words in the 51st psalm, “ Then will Iteach transgressors thy way, &c.”From Loudon hill he took a tour throughAyrshire to Carrick and Galloway, preaching,baptizing, and marrying some people; but staulnot long until he returned to Clydesdale. Hedesigned, after his return, to have preached oneday at Tinto-hill, but the jLady of St John’sKirk gave it out to be at Home Common. Hebeing in the house of John Liddel, near Tinto,went out to spend the Sabbath morning by him¬self; and seeing the people all passing by, he in¬quired the reason ; which being told, he rose andfollowed them five miles. The morning beingwarm, (about the 1st of June,) and the heightssteep, he was very much fatigued before he gotto the place, where a man gave him a drink ofwater out of his bonnet, and another between ser¬mons ; this being the best entertainment he gotthat day, for he had tasted nothing in the morn¬ing. Here he lectured on the 6th of Isaiah, andpreucheckon these words, “Be not high minded,but fear, &c.” From thence he went to Fyfe,and baptised many children, and preached oneday at Daven common, and then returned to theBenry-bridge in Cambusnethan, where he receiv¬ed a call from tha hands of two men, to comeback to Galloway, but got it not answered.Mr Cargill in that short time, had run veryfast towards his end, which now hastens apace.Having left the Benry-bridge, he preached oneday at Auchingilloch, and then came to preachhis last sermon on Dunsyre common, betweenClydesdale and Lothian, upon the text Is. xxvi,20. “ Come my people and enter into your cham¬bers, &c.”Some time that night, through the persuasionof Mr Smith and Mr Boig, he went with theLady of St. John’s Kirk, as far as Covingtonmill, to the house of one Andrew Fisher. InIthc mean time, James Irvine of Bonshaw, hav-ng got a general commission, marched with a18party of dragoons from Kilbride, and next moming, by sun-rising, came to St John’s Kirk, anahaving searched it, he searched also the house ofone Thomson, and then came to Covington-mill,and there apprehended him, Mr Smith, and MrBoig. Bonshaw, when he found them, criedout, O blessed Bonshaw! and blessed day thatever I was born! that has found such a prize !a prize of 5000 merks for apprehending him thismorning! They marched hard to Lanark andput them in jail, until they got some refreshmentand then brought them out in haste, got horsestmd set the prisoners on their bare backs. Bon¬shaw tied Mr Cargill’s feet below tile horsesbelly^ with his own hand, very hard ; at whichthis man looked down to him, and said, “ Whydo you tie me so hard, your wickedness is great.You will not long escape the just judgement ofGod; and, if I be not mistaken it will seize youin this very place.” Which accordingly nextyear came to pass: for having got this price ofblood, one of his comrades, in a rage ran himthrough with a sword at Lanark : and his lastwords were, “ G—d d—-—n my soul eternally,for I am gone.” Mischief shall hunt the violentrflffiji . II<KW DOB 9Thfey came to Glasgow in haste, fearing arescue of the prisoners: and while waiting at thetolbooth, till the magistrates came to receivethem, one John Nisbet, the Archbishop’s factor,said to Mr Cargill in ridicule, three times over,Will you givh us one word more? (alluding tban expression he used sometinfes when preach-ing); to whom Mr Cargill said with regret,19r“ Mock not, lest your lands be made strong.The day is coming, when you shall not have oneword to say though you would.” This also camequickly to pass ; for, not many days after, he fellsuddenly ill, and for three days his tongue swelled,and though he was most earnest to speak, yet hecould not command one word, and died in greattorment, and seeming terror.From Glasgow they were taken to Edinburgh,and, July 15th, were brought before the Coun¬cil. Chancellor Rothes ( being one of thosewhom he excommunicated at Torwood) ragedagainst him, threatening him with torture and aviolent death. To whom he said, “ My LordRothes, forbear to threaten me, for die what deathI will, your eyes shall not see it Which accord¬ingly came to pass; for he died the morning ofthat day, in the afternoon of which Mr Cargillwas executed.When before the Council, he was asked, if heacknowledged the King’s authority, &c. he an¬swered as the magistrate’s authority is now es¬tablished by act of parliament, and explanatoryact, that he denied the same. Being also exam¬ined anent the excommunication at Torwood,he declined to answer, as being an ecclesiasticalmatter,,and they a civil judicatory. He ownedthe lawfulness of defensive arms, in cases of ne¬cessity, and denied that those that rose at Both-well, &c. were rebels: and being interrogatedanent the Sanquhar declaration, he declined togive his judgment until he hud more tirqe to con¬sider the contents thereof. He further declared,he could not give his sense of the killing of the20Bishop; but that the scriptures say, upon theLord’s giving a call to a private man to kill, hemight do it lawfully ; and gave the instances ofJael and Phinehas. These were the most mater¬ial points on which he was examined.While he was in prison, a gentlewoman whocame to visit him, told him, weeping, “ Thatthese Heaven daring enemies were contriving amost violent death for him; some, a barrel withpikes to roll him in; others an iron-chaii, red-hot, to roll him in,” &c. But he said, ‘ Let younor none of the Lord’s people be troubled forthese things, for all that they will get liberty todo to me, will be to knit me up, cut me down,and chop off my old head, and then fare themwell; they have done with me, and with them forever.1’He was again before the Council on the 19th,but refusing to answer their questions, exceptanent the excommunication. There was somemotion made to spare him, as he was an old man,and send him prisoner to the Bass during life;which motion buing put to a vote, was, by thecasting vote of the Earl of Rothes, rejected;who doomed him to the gallows, there to die likeu traitor.Upon the 26th he was brought before the justi¬ciary, and indicted in common form. His con¬fession being produced in evidence against him,he was brought in guilty of high treason, andcondemned, with the rest, to be hanged at thecross of Edinburgh, and his head placed on theNether Bow. When they came to these wordsin his indictment, vi*. having cast off all fear of21God, &c. he caused the clerk to slop, and, point-i ing to the Advocate, Sir George MtKenzie,said, ‘ The man that hath caused that paper tobe drawn up hath done it contrary to the lightot his own conscience, for he knoweth that 1have been a fearer of God from mine infancy;but that man, I. say, who took the Holy Bible ini his hand, and said, It would never be well with! the land, until that book was destroyed, &c. Isay, he is the man that hath cast off all fear ofGod.’ The Advocate stormed at this, but couldnot deny the truth thereof.When they got their sentence announced bysound of trumpet he said, “ That is a weary sound,but the sound of the last trumpet will be a joy¬ful sound to me, and all that will be found hav*ing 03 Christ’s righteousness.Being come to the scaffold, he stood with hisback to the ladder, and desired the attention ofthe numerous spectators; and after singing fromthe 16th verse of the 118th psalm, he began tospeak to three sorts of people; but being inter¬rupted by the drum, he said, with a smiling coun¬tenance, ‘ Ye see we have no liberty to speakwhat we would, but God knoweth our hearts.'As he proceeded, he was again interrupted.Then, after a little pause or silence, he began toexhort the people; and to show his own comfortin laying down his life, in the assurance of ublessed eternity, expressing himself in thesewords: ‘ Now, I am as sure of my interest inChrist, and peace with God, as all within tin?Bible and the Spirit of God can make me; andI am fully persuaded, that this is the very wayfor which I suffer, and that he will return glori¬ously to Scotland; but it will be terrifying tomany; therefore, I entreat you, be not discour¬aged at the way of Christ and the cause for whichI am to lay down my life, and step into eternity,where my soul shall be as full of him as it candesire to be 5 and now this is the sweetest andmost glorious day that ever mine eyes did see.Enemies are now enraged against the way andpeople of God, but ere long they shall be en¬raged one against another, to their own confu¬sion.” Here the drums did bea4, a third time.Then setting his foot on the ladder, he said,The Lord knows I go on this ladder with lessfear, and perturbation of mind, than ever I en¬tered the pulpit to preach.”—When up, he satdown, and said, ‘ Now I am near the getting ofthe chuvn, which shall be sure, for which 1 blessthe Lord, and desire all of you to bless him, thatlie hath brought me here, and made me triumphWVer devils, men, and sin. They shall woundme no more. I forgive all men the wrongs theyhave done me; and I pray the sufferers may bekept from sin, and helped to know their duty.”Then having prayed a little within himself, helifted up the napkin, and said, ‘ Farewell all rela¬tions and friends in Christ; farewell acquaintan¬ces and earthly enjoyments,‘ farewell reading andpreaching, praying ‘and- believing, wanderings,reproach, and sufferings. Welcome Father, Son,and Holy Ghost; into thy hands I commit myspirit.’ Then he prayed a little, and the execu¬tioner turned him over as he was praying; and23It «o he finished his course, and the ministry that hrI had received of the Lord.Take his character from Sir Robert Hamiltoni of Preston, who was his contemporary. He wasi affectionate, affable, and tender-hearted, to alli such as he thought had any thing of the imageof God in them; sober and temperate in his diet,I saying commonly, It was well won that was wonoff the flesh; generous,' liberal and most charita¬ble to the poor; a great hater of covetousness; afrequent visitor of the sick ; much alone, lovingI to be retired ; but when about his Master's pub-t lie work, laying hold of every opportunity to ed-: ify j in conversation, still dropping what might: minister grace to the hearers: his countenancewas edifying to beholders 5 often sighing withdeep groans: preaching in season, and Out olseason, upon all hazards; ever the same in judg¬ment and practice. From his youth, he wasmuch given to the duty of secret prayer, for wholenights together ; wherein it was observed, that,both in secret and in families, he always satstraight upon his knees, with his hands lifted up ;and in this posture (as some took notice) he diedwith the rope about his neck. e x nigillBesides his last speech and testimony, andseveral other religious letters, with the lecture,sermon, and sentence of excommunication at Tor-wood, which, are all published, fthere are alsoseveral other sermons, and rotes of sermons, in-terpersed among some peoples hands, in print andmanuscript, some of vybiqhjhave been published.Yet if we may believe Walker, in his remarkablepassages, &c. who heard severals of them preach-24ed, they are nothing to what they were when de¬livered ; and however pathetieal, yet doubtless farinferior to what they would have been, had they!been corrected and published by the worthy au-ithor hjtwwfcil iJ.il hnn otenoitoefiogBrni odt lo yns hfid tdsuori} sd es danAN ACROSTIC ON HIS NAME.Most sw^eet and savoury is thy fame,And more renowned is thy name,Surely than any can record,Thou highly favoured of the Lord.Exalted thou on earth didst live;Rich grace to thee the Lord did give,lumotnnoo eid': amused odt ot somg lafeiuDuring the time thou dwelt below,On in a course to heaven didst go.Not casten down with doubts and fe,ars,Assur’d of heaven near thirty years.Labour thou didst in Christ’s vineyard ;Diligent wast, no time thou spar’d.h; oil (Sioilirnsl ni him joioa-f ni <!::Christ’s standard thou didst bear alone,After others from it were gone.Right zeal for truth was found in thee,Great sinners censurd’st faithfully.In holding truth didst constant prove,Laidst down thy life out of true love.June 21, 174lluq Ub ^ «d-.W. W.t8fionm8 jo wlon biiK tenomi9« isdJo Irnsvj Jnha rti .ehufid galqosq 9moe Vsnoms h^eisqn.hsdailduqsldadiBrno-doBoiq mtFINIS.Tolori