AN HISTORICALCATECHISM*CONTAININGIIngenious anfwers to many notable queftions,of fevcral wonders ul matters inANCIENT HISTORY.As, What is the opinion of all our hiftnrians aboutthe apple old mother Eve tempted Adam withal.Why the devil (hould take the Shape of a ferpent.Of the building of the tower of Babel nine milesround by jooooo men who left off confounded intheir language Alfo lerious queftions about SodomandGomorah Noah’s ark. and Solonv n’s temple.Informing us from fcripture what day that was thatthe like was never before, nor ever fhall be. Like-wife giving a full account of the defia uttion of Jc-rufalem and the daughter of three millions of Jews,and how the remainder were difpers’d and flatter¬ed over the face of the whole earth Alfojofephusand the Romans account of our Saviour, and themiracles wrought at his birth. Particularly a re¬markable ftory about the great Mogul and a divin¬ing ape; with a wonderful apparition that hap¬pen’d at Mahomet’s tomb The wonderful prophe¬cies of the ten Sybils; and a marvelous relationof feven fleepers, who flept above 200 years.IGLASGOW:PRINTED IN THE YEAR,M, £>CC, LXXII,( 2 )The HISTORICAL CATECHISM.Qudt. \\T '1 A T apple or fruit was it that Adam eat inW Paradife, and thereby brought fin and deathupon him. and all his pofterity ?Anfw. P is uncerf in, for the holy fcriptnrec mention itnot; and authors vary in their opinions; fomc fay it wasa Pedian apple grow ing where Paradife was fituated; othersim gine it was a golden apple a cherry, or a pear : butthe itient Romans believe it w s a mulk apple.What m iv be the reifon why the devil (hnuld afPitriethe lhaee of a ferpent above all other creatures, and thatout of the outrefadion of man’s body worms are produced ?A. Meland n favs, from man’s being delude - by theferpent in Paradife, the devil delighted in that lhape, andout of man’s corruption and the filth of It's fin, worms andferpents do pring : for man be ng prone to fin, from theputrefsdhon of his. body fuch creatures are ingendered, asa mar- of our original fin.What iccount doth the ancient* give of Babel ?A. It was the molt famous (tr fture after No b’s flood :for Vimrod perfauded the people to build a large and highedifice to refill 'he fnrv of a fee nd deluge. They builtthis tower. ^64 paces from the gr-und : the gorng upwas wmdi g and broad, there being nor only room f >r hor-fes and carts, but lodging for m n and oeaft* with grafs andcorn fieldi. And wi hderful ’twas to confi der that hut eightpernot came ou of No:hh ark, this building was carriedon by 500000 men, th- found.non being nine miles round :bur G id confided their longues, a-d pgr a flop 10 theirwork, one no- b ing able to uiu’etffand mother, as expreltby tb • poet. Bring me quoth one, a trowel quickly quick*O e brings bim up a hammer; hew mis brick,An ther bids, and then they cleave a tree;Make fdt this mpe, and then they let it fl e ;One c l!s for planks, another mortar lacks;T y bring th firit a ftone, the Lift an xOne would have nails, and him 1 fpade ih.y give.Another -Iks a faw. and imts fieve!Thus crois’d they dll and nil in vain, _What one I a'h nude -mo h-r (p- ds attain,This made t- em leave heir work and lijtie mad fools.Scatter their ffi.ff and fu hie down t‘ eir tools.Why were mens lives longer betore Nom * floodthan fineA. as the world declines io does the natureof ail there*1in, meteors, comets and ecliples produce difeafes were thenfeWom feen, together with our ex^eflive drinking, whichdcltroys more than the Iword.Q What d iy was that the like was nev r before or (ince?A W hen Jolhua prayed in the midit ot the battle, lo thatthe fun itood Hill, and haltened not to go down until it madethe day 24 hours long, whereas naturally it was but 14 orIf hours.What part of the earth was that which was feen onlyfour times of mankind?A. The bottom ot the river Jordan, divided by God,palled over by Mofes, and the children of Ilrael; ken afterby Mofes, Jolhua, F.lijih and Eliiha.What do the hitlorians fay of Solomon’s temple?A. The temple was ouilt on a rocky foundation, 300 cu¬bits deep, the (loner 40 cubits high , potches double iup-ported by (tately pillars 25 cubit' high, of marble, the topsof cedar The porches 30 obits broad. The courts pav’dwith all for;? o llones like fine lattices, all the gates cover¬ed with pi tetofgold. The Holy of Holes was in the m'dlt.Tlu tirtt gate 20 cubits high, and had 20 doors : all the foreparts were g I ed. and w o ,in cover’d with fin; gold aboutthe wall wa*-. a golden vine the cluiters like grapes of gold,ea. h duller (ix (eet long It had golden gates and hingeswrought with golc, und had the fanr ck covered u kh mailygold.The tops va- (ft with rod* of got 1 (harp like fp k s, I (tbirds (hould li toereon and defil it. The temule was fir Itbuilt b kin * olomon. and aftet wards p!u lered bv Sts*back king of Eg p aid other-: but 1 (IK h, N nueliadnez-Z-r, wfio lau) this ci y a d temple even to the guiuud,Yet alter hat, rebu lt by H, rod the gr^at: hut about for¬ty years after the dear o oi.r Saviour, the fins of the Jewsbeing c me to thdr height, it was oettroyed oy Titus, Ionot Vefpalian, emperor or Ro'iie.W: a; were the dr adlul (ignsand wonders which fore-toi the deltrudlii n of j ufalem?A. T he year hefor the Roman, came, a bright (lar ap¬pear d ov r the temple, as if a man had held many drawnIwords in his hands and th temple was as light as at noun-% day feven nights togther. A heifer being knocked downfor fn rifice, brought lot th a lamb A man’s (ace was leen inthe Holy,of Holies looking very earneltiy. Four chariotswith hortemen were leen fighri g in the air In the templethe prielt heard a terrible voice, laying; “ Come let os goout ot the temple, let us hatten from hence,” But they re¬garded them not till Hidden dellrurffion fell upon them.(3 What country is looked upon to be the molt defdlateand iolitary in the world?( 4 >A. The land about Sod mti and Gomorah; where were 13eitiesbuilt on a fruitful foil, a fecon ! paradile; hut they fin¬ned Rreatly, for which God rained down brimitone and firefrom heaven, which deftroycd their hnd. leaving not oneftone up m another, nor any witnefs of their former fpl^n-dor or glory, but a poifonous fmell of fire and brimitone;which, by its vapours Itiffles the birds th?t flv over this{linking lake, that t! ey fall down dead and the filh that areCirried into it out of the river Jordan are choaked with it.Inltead of pulpy vine, there are now fome apples of » glo¬rious -'ppearance, but within are full of lulphurous afhes.What became of the Jewifh nation, af er that wickedaft of crucifying the Lord of file?A, God’s judgments according to their deferts, and ourSaviour’s prophecy overtook them: for the Romans with agreatarrm b fieg’d, plonuer’d.andburntthrciry andfemple.Tnere perilhVi by ftmine, fire, (word and quarrels, t (ocooopeople ; the fiege beginning at the time of the paflbver, ina manner when all the Jews in Palaftine were encloled in thatcity, fo that there were in it more Itrangers than inhabitants.The paffover that was firlt inftituted by God in mercy, tofave the Ifraeliies from death in Egypt, was now nfed byhim in juftice to batten their deltruftion, and confumedthem in the fire of his anger. And thofe that efcaped, be¬came a fcattered people over the whole earth.CL What became of the remainder ?A B lides thefe that were flain 07, 000 were taken cap¬tives, and they who had bought our Saviour’s blood off Ju¬das for 30 pieces of filver, were themfelves f Jd for thirty apenny. The chriftians that were in the city being fore¬warned of our Saviour’s prediftions, and many other pro¬digies. fled betimes out of ferufalem to Pella, a town be¬yond Jordan, which lerved inltead of a little Zoar, to fivethem from imminent deftrudtion.Was there ever any attempt made to rebuild the tem¬ple of Jerufalem ?A. Yes : Julian the spoliate, emperor of Rome, refolvedto build it in oppofition to Chrilt’s prophecy, “ that oneHone fhould not be left upon another,” but when the work¬men were laying the foundation a dreadful earthquake hap¬pened, fo that the work and workmen were dedroyed.Q. What did they difeover at laying the founda-tioiT? . , . ...A. There was a Hone which dipt from its place, and dil-cover’d the mouih of a cave, wherein was found a bookvery frefh, wrapt in linen cloth, which the Jews and Gre¬cians opened, and therein found written. IN THE BE¬GINNING W A S T H K W <) R D A N D T H EWORD WAS GO IX Whch contained all the Gof-fpe! that St. John had dechreii.What account d ‘th Jofcphns give of our Saviour ?A. That Jrfus was a wile man, (hewed wonoers, andtaught the truth to them tha» followed hiut.What miracles happem d it the birth of Chrift ?A. At his birth the tempi'- of Rome d dicated to anheathen goddels, (ell to the ground : When it was firll builtthe Romans enquire of their oracle Apollo, how Songit Ihould ftand ? Who anlwered, ’Till a virgin ihouldbring forth a Son; which made tb-m think it would Ifandfor ever. ct. f-rom fays, when th - virgin Mary fled withh<r fon to Egvpt, ail images of their god’s fell down, andoracles and devils ceafedWhat is farther related of the death of Chrift, befideswhat we find in the holy fcrpturts ?A. in the 34th year of our blefled Saviour’s life he wascrucified bv the wicked [ews, which produced prodigiouseftedts, attefted as well by heathen* as chriffians. At hisdeath there was a great dark tefs in the day time, from3 o’clock, at which time our Saviour gave up the gholf,till 6, and vet there was no eciipfe of^ the fun, it beingthen full moon : So that it w s only by the power of God,who deprived the fun of its light for tfnt ipace of time.And Dionilius be ng that day at Athens, and knowing bythe courie of the heavens, that this eclipie nulf be unnatural,cried out, “ Either the world is at an end, or the God ofnature luffers !” And the wile nu n at Athens being alfoniih-ed at this prodigy, ordered an altar to be- built, and dedica¬ted it to the unknown God, for which Sr. Paul reprovedthem declaring that Jefus Chrill the redeemer of the world,who had fuff, red death by the Jews was the unknown God ;whereby he converted many to the Chriltian faith.Is there not another relation of this?A. Yes, Plutarch publhhed the following account.That hu father coming by fea towirds Paly, and coaltingabout the Ifland Parax.s, when all the fhitts crew were atrell, they hea'd a dreadful voice from that Ifland. callingto Alanvtn who was Pilot of the (hip, and an Egyptian born;this voice was heard twice, yet none had the courage toanfwer, till at ti e third call. Ataman, cry’d. Who calls ?What would you have ? The voice then (poke louder, andfaid, “When you pals near thegulphof Laguna. 1 charge“ you to cry aloud and m ke them to underhand that the“ great god Pan is dead.’ This (hip’s c xnpany was aifoni-fhed thereat, but concluded he (hould tak- no notice of thevoice, but proceed on their voyage. When they came tothe place the (hip flood (till, fo that they could Jail no fur¬ther; wheieupon Alaman placed himleli upon the poup ofthefliip, and cry*d aloud, “ Beit known unto you that thepr< at f»oc! Pan is dead”. He had no foomr (aid thus, butthe air echoed with mo rnfu! cries, whicli iurpriz.d tholein the (hip. But having afterwards a profperous Rale toRome, told the emperor The fame author owns that aboutthis time, not only the oracles of Egypt ceahd, hut through¬out the whi le world, tor which he could give n,> realon butthat Satan did plainly confeis himfelf to be overthrown bythe death of Chrilt, and could nr ver again give any anlwers.hat account did the Romans give of Chrilt?A. In the reign of Tiberius Caefar, Lentulhis the RomanGovernor of Judea wrote the following letter.“ There appeared in thofe days, a nun of great virtue,“ called Idus Chrilt, who is yet living among us, and by“ tiie people i? called a prophet, but his difuiples cad htm■“ the Son of GOD He raifeth the dead and cureth all“ manner of dileales a man of (tature fomewhat tall and“ comely, with a reverend countenance, Inch asthe behold-“ ers may both fear and love. His hair is oS the colour of“ a chelbut full ripe, and plain down almoft to his ears hut“ from thenc downward h mewhat curid, but more orient“ of olours wavin' abt.u’ his (lioulder . In tne midlt of*' his head goeth a (earn of his hair, like the Nazar ens;“ his fee beautify’d with a comely red; his mouth and“ nofc o formed, th it nothing can '>e reprehended. His“ beard thick, the colour ot the hair of his bead. His“ eyes grey dear an quick, ’n reproving he is lev re, in“ count llini> courteous, fair fpoken p'eatant in ipeech,‘‘ mixt will) gravity : It cannot be remembered that any“ body has teen him laugh, but ohen to weep : In pro-“ portion of body well fhaped and (iraight; hi* arms and“ hand deiaftable to ochold. In fpeaki.ng very temperate,“ mneeft and wife: a Man for his lingular beauty far ex-“ eecding tiie ons of men.”Q. Is there not a ltr mge relation of an appartion thathappened at Mahomet’s tomb ?A. Mr. Rno- h in his hiltory of the Turks affirms as acertain truth, that in tbao, a furprifing vifion w^s feen atMedina in Arabia, where Mahomet lus buried, which con¬tinued 20 days terrifying the w iole country. Septemberao-ii in that year a great tempeft of wind r tin and thund .rh ipp ned about midnight, but when the flty became clearthe people might pi only re id in Af b.an characters thdevoid* “ )h ! why will you believe in lies r” an i betw entwo and three in tlv morning, appeared a woman in white,leetmng to be emompafs’d witf) the fun, having a chearfutcountenance, wuh a book in her hand, over againft herW; rc leen armies oi Turks Perltans, Arabians, and otherMiittomeiani in battle array ready to fight with her, but(lie keeping her ftation. only opening the book, at whichthe armies fled, and presently all the lamps about Maho*mets tomb went our, for when the vilion vaniflied, an hourbefore fun riling, a murmuring wind was heard, to whichthey imputed the exnog ifhingofth-' lamps.Q. 1- there not a remarkable (lory of the great Mogul inthe E iff Indies ?A Y s. it happen’d fome years before Sir Thomas Rowewas amb (Tador for king James the (irtt to h’s court, that ajuggler of Bengal brought an ape befor' the Mogul thatdid many ttrange feats • the king 'O try ht« fkdl piucked aring of his finger, an ‘ gave it to one of his hoys to hide,which he prefently dilcov-red, ar lalf th’S (fringe fancycame into his head, there are m my difpu es, lays he, con¬cerning the true prophet that (hould come into the world.We are for Mahomet, th- P rfims magn'ry M ttis Ally*the Hindoes or Heathens extol Braman Ram and others,the je ss are for Mo'es, and the Chriltians tor (ihnfj, addingfever«l others to the number of twelve, whofe names hecaufed to be writ on twelve fciolis and put in a bafon ; thisdone the ape puts n his paw among th m and pulls out thename of Chr fl:. He then c ufed the names to be writtena fecond time, in other fcr ils. and the ape again plucktoutthe name of Chr:(f as before. Upon this one of the Mogul’sfavourites faid it was an impoifor of the Chriftians, and de-lired a ihird tr\al, with • nlv eleven nan: s, referving thatof Chrift’s in his hand The apeTearching as before pulledout 1 s empty paw'; whereupon th Mogul was told thatp'.ffibly the thing he looked for was not there; the apew is bid to fearch for it, who bringing ;hofe 11 names oneafter another in f eming indigna ion rent them all to pieces;an.! catching the favourite by the hand, where the nameof Ghrilt was concealed, opened and held it np to the Mo¬gul without tearing the fame. Upon which the Mogul gavehi ke per t penfion calling him th” divining ape. Thetru*h whereof faith Mr. retry, Gapt. to Sir Thomas Rowe,confirm-d by iev^ral perfi ns of diff rent religions.Q.. What w re th f women called Sybils w to prophefiedof no' blefT'd L trd. lone hundreds of years be ore hewas born iA They were reckoned to be ten in number, and to havethe fpirit of prophecy, and uttered many fpeeches concern¬ing Ghrifl. very agreeable to th.ife of the jewifh prophe s orr^th' r in more plain rerms than hey, tho’ the headien- towhom rhey were fpoken underltood them not. Yea, theyare thorghi or great importance (or confirming the truth ofthe chrilban religi in, a id they ar'onen dduceO by the fa¬thers of the primuive church, auatrifi the enemies to thefaith ot Jeiiis. And Conitamine the iirlt chriftian emperoraffirms, that a Iparret? heathen who lived an hundred yearsbefore Chrift’s nativity, fr>ves an account at Jar/te of thenumber, writings, country and ayes of the ten Sybils, andthe author that mention 'd them before his time.What is related in antient hiffory concerning thefeven fieepers ?A They were born in th city of Ephefus, in the timewhen Decius, the Heathen Roman emperor perlecuted thechriltians. theje'*ood>men being of that profeffi <n : wholenames were Vtaxamilu’ii. Mdobus, Marchianus, Dorinas,John Sarophrom, and Conltantius, to avoid tortur? andthe worffiip of idols fl’d into a cave, in mount Celion, afterlong praying, watching an 1 falling, they fell sfle p, theemperor expedlb g they were in th it cave, cauied the mouththereof to be flopt up with hones, lo that they might diewith hunger Decius and that generation being dead, Theo-docious a chrillian emperor alter many years fucceeded, atwhich t^me a citizen of Epheliis, delinning to make a lodgefor his fhephrrds in that cave, and the workmen openingthe mouth of K, th^fe fev-'n chriltfans that had flept all thistime awaked and fainted each other, verily fuppoiing theyhad Hept but one night and itegan to remember they- hea-vinefs the day before They lent Malobus to buy bread inthe city, and gave him live (hillings 5 coming to the mouthof the cave he wondered to fee the mafons at work; and go¬ing inr© ih- civ. found all things altered, vhd the crofsfet up on the»hurcht s-. ur.ive.o went to il>em fh-*#fold bread,and they fpoke of Chrilt, at which Ire much wondered thatthere fhould be fuel1, a change line? yellerday when nonedurlt fpe :k of he true God, but he was now p'ofc IT d open¬ly. But when he offered, ibe baker money for bread, thecoin was moulded, then the people faid, “ Sure this yoqngman hath found lome antieht treafure !” Upon which theycarry’d him before the bifhopand conn! !; where hedeclar-ed that he and fix mbre had hid themfelves yelterday in ac*ve to efcape the cruelty of Decius, and had taken thatmaney with them. The emperor Thcodocius being madeacquainted therewith, he with many others went and foundthe other fix chearful and hearty, their garments not beingworn by age or time; the emperor thereupon glorified God,embracing and weeping over each of them for joy, faying,“ I receive you like lo iruny I/izarulbs rilen from yourgraves !" they continued alive lome fhort time after, andthen died, and were buried ip gre.a’ pomp and Hate by theemperor. It appeared they had llept two hundred andeight years.FINIS.y