THEVilTfY AND ENTERTAININGEXPLOITSOFiKOOMMOULT CALLED*12 ti:,re f*ABERDEEN:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.OISJ'at■leva. c :h picTHEWITTY AND ENTERTAINING EXPLOITSCOMMONLY CALLEDCl-'O-gFGrABERDEEN:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.iTHEWITTY EXPLOITSOF31E. GEOEGE BUCHANAN.PART I.Ur. Georoe Buchanan was a Scotsrafln bore, andthough of mean pirentoge made great progress inlearning. As for his understanding and ready withe excelled all men then alive in the age that everproposed questions to him. He was servant orteacher to King James the VI., and one of his privatecounsellors, but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened one day that a young airy noble¬man went into the king’s garden to pull a flower fora young lady he fancied ; George followed at adistance, so when the young man found a flower hefancied he would not pull it himself—but to find itagain without further search he covered it with hishat and went away for his sweetheart. No soonerwas he gone, but up goes George, lifts his hat, andpulls the flower, then eases himself on the spot,covers it with the hat again, and away ho goes.Soon after the young gentleman returned, leadinghis sweetheart, to pull the flower below the hat;hut as soon as he lifted the hat and saw what wasbelow it, he looked like a fool, and the lady flyinginto a passion, set off, and would never countenance4THE LIFE OF GEOEGE BUCHANAK.him any more. The young gentleman being sadlyrexed at ibis affront given to him by George, senthim a challenge to fight him, appointing the dayand place whore they were to meet. Being to fighton horseback George gets an old stiff horse, and forharnessing covers him about with blown bladders,with small stones in each, without either sword orspear; and away he goes to the field where the duel1was appointed. So when George saw his enemycoming against him all in glittering armour, armedwith sword and spear, he made up to him with allthe speed his horse would carry him; when thesmall stones in the bladders made such a rattlingnoise, that the gentleman’s fine gelding would notstand the battle, but ran away, and threw his masterto the ground ; which caused all the spectators tolaugh/ and say the gentleman was more fool thanGeorge. The gentleman being still more enraged atthis second affront, said ho would fight with George-on foot; but his friends persuaded him that it wouldbe no honour for him to fight and kill the king’sfool, and far less to be killed by the fool. So theywere advised both to agree. But the gentlemanwould try another exploit with George for to haveit said he was still the cleverest man ; viz—do holdhim a jumping bout publicly, the next day there'after. With all my heart, says George, and we willend in about where we began, they not knowinghis meaning in this. The place and hour being set,where they were to meet next morning. George inthe night time caused a deep pit to be made, andthe earth of it carried away; then filled it up withdung from a p , and covered it over with a greenturf that it might not be known by the othei'ground. So, according to promisej they both metin the morning against the appointed time. !Now,George being the oldest man, and by them countedTHE LIFE OF GEOEGE BUCH1KAIT.5the greatest fool, the young spark permitted him tojump first, which ho according to order did, andjumped within a foot ot the place where the groundwas falsified. The young man seeing this, made hisperformance with great airs and all d is might sothat he jumped a loot over George, but up to the.oxters in clean dung! whereat the whole multitudeof spectators cried out with huzzas and laughter.>u>w, says George I told you wo would end in and;about where we began, and that is in clean dirt.2 On a tim* after this, the king and his courtwere going into the country, and they would have■George to ride before them in the fool’s dress;•whereuuto be seemed unwilling, but it was theking's pleasure. So George was mount! d upon an•old horse with a pair of old liven boots, the heelshanging down, and a palmer coat, patched over withpictures of divers kinds. George rode before themin 'his posture, which caused great laughter anddiversion, until they came to an inn, where theyalighted to dine; and in the time they were at dinnerTleorge went into the stables and with a kuife cutall the horses ehafts, net sore but so as they mightbleed. Now, as soon as dinner was over and theymounted on their horses again— George riding beforethem as usual, in his palmer coat and old boots—-they begun to make their game of him ; then George-tuning about suddenly and clapping his hands withloud langh'er,—the king asked him what made himlaugh so: Laugh, says George, how can I but laughwhen horses cannot hold their peace? (), mysovereign, says he, don’t you see how your horseshave rent their i halts laughing at my old boots!■Then every man looking at his horse’s mouth, theywere all in a ra^e against George. The king,.causing George to dismount directly, and chargedJ)i«l never to let him see his face on English ground.0THE LIFE OF GECKGE BUCHAN AH.[Now, George knowing that nothing could reconcilethe king at tins time, he came away to Scotlandand caused them to make a pair of great boots, andput a quanti y of Scottish earth in each of them,and away he goes for London to see the king oncemore. He hearing the king and his court were to pass¬through a town, George places himself up in anold window, and sets up his bate a— to the kingand his court as they passed. The king beinggreatly amazed to see such an unusual honour doneto him was cmious to know the performer; so hecalled unto him, desiring him to come down; andfinding it to he George—Sir, says the king, did not1 charge you never to let me see your face again fTrue, my sovereign, says George, for which cause1 let you tee my a—. But, says the king, you wasI)ever to crime on English ground again. Neither Idid, says George pulling off his boots before the"dving, behold, my Sovereign, it is all Scots earth 1gland upon. The king and bis court being greatly(diverted with this merry joke, George was admittedHgain to the king’s favour.3. After this there arose a debate betwixt thwking and the queen about votes in the parliament fns the king had two votes, the queen would havtrone, and would needs be a parliamenter, or no peacewithout preferment. This matter was committed terGeorge by the king; so it was agreed among theparliumeutt rs, that the queen should be admittedinto parliament for a day. Accordingly she camefand was received with all the honour and con¬gratulation that was due and becoming her highstation; but before any matter of consequence wasbrought to the board, Geoige seated himseT hardby the queen’s seat; all being silent, he rose upVery quickly, lifted one of his legs, let a loudf 1, which set the whole house a-laughing rTHE LIFE OF GEOKGE BUCHANAN.7■whereat the queen was greatly offended, and said.—go, take the rogue and hang him ; to which Georgeanswered, a fine parliamenter indeed, lo hang a manfor a sinless infirmity, and that’s a f 1. 'I hequeen being enraged at the affront put on her firstappearance in parliament, went off in a passion, andnever would countenance them more. But yet, tobe revenged on George, she would never give theking rest till he delivered George into her hands,that he might be punished at her pleasure ; whichI he king accordingly commanded to be done, knowingthat George would rescue himself by some intrigueor other. No sooner was he delivered into herhands, but she and her maids of honour pronouncedhis doom, which was as follows:—As he hadaffronted the queen among so great an assemblage,who ought to be honoured in chief above all womenin the nation, that he should be stoned to death bythe hands of women. Now the time being comethat he had to die, according to their appointment,ho was taken into a park, where a great number otwomen were waiting for him, with their aprons fullof stones, to fall upon him, and put him to detth,according to the queen’s appointment.GEORGE’S SPEECHJO HIS EXECUTIONERSHere’s a female band with bags of stonesTo kill a man for rumple groans.I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefls.Could I convert my f s to lilts ?Since I, the first for f s do die.Close up the place from whence they fly.To commit my crime I think ye’ll scarce,If once you do cork up your a— .And now since women stones do carry—-lien need not in the world longer tarry.8JHE LIFE OF GEOEGE BUCHAXAX.Judge if such women be chaste complete,With forty stones between their f ;But since ’tis so ye will come on,The greatest w throw the first stone.When he had ended with these words, “The greatestw throw the first stone,” every one put it toanother to cast the fiist stone; but knowing theywould attain the character of a w for so doing,they all refused till the dying hour was past; andthen he took a protest against them and by thatmeans he gained his life. After this he was admittedinto the queen’s favour and presence, and attendedthe court as formerly.4. About this time the French king, in order topick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent aletter to the king, desiring it to be read before theparliament; and the writing was as follows :—WillI come? Will I come? Will [ come?—This letterbeing read before the king and his courtiers, they allconcluded that the French king designed to invad®England. Therefore they ordered an answer to bewrote, upbraiding him with the breach of peaceand putting him in mind of the last treaty. Theanswer being read before the king and his nobles,they all agreed that it should be sent off. ButGeorge, smiling and shaking his head, cried out,Many men, many minds,Who knows what he designs ?Then they arked George what the French kingmrant by such a letter ? to which he answered, Isuppose he wants an invitation to come over anddine with you, and thin return in a friendly manner ;but you are going to charge him -with a breach ofpeace before he has given any signal of offence orwar. His letter is indeed dark and mystical, butsmd him an answer according to his question.TILE LITE OF GEOEOE BUCHANAN.9^Now, George being ordered to write the answer;it was as follows: — And ye come! And ye come!And ye come ! This being sent to the French king,he admired it beyond expression, saying it was an■answer more valiant and daring than he expected.So the enmity he intended was extingaished andturned into love.b. It happened once that a malignant party inScotland sent up a gi’eat spoki sman to the king andparliament for the reducing of the church; George,hearing of his coming went away and met him onthe bridge, and the salutation that he give him wasthe cutting off his head and throwing it over thebridge ! He then ran to the king with all his might,nnd fell down before him pleading most heartily forpardon, or without it he was a dead man. The kingmost seriously asked him what he had done now?To which he answered he had only thrown the Scotsbishop’s hat over the bridge; which made the kingto laugh to hear him ask pardon for so small a fault;but he had no sooner got the pardon signed andsealed by the king’s baud, than he said, indeed mysovereign, 1 threw his hat over the bridge, but hishead was in it. 0 Geordie, Geordie, says the rangthou wilt never give over till thou be hanged.6. A nobleman in England agreed with the kinghow to put a tri k upon Geoige, to try his manlycourage, in sending him to a certain place for a bagof money. Un his way home, through St. James’park, they caused a sturdy fellow to go and set uponhim by the way and take the money from him.The fellow being armed with sword and pistol, cam©up quickly and attacked George with these words,You, sir, deliver what money you have, or you area dead man. To which George answered, sir, Ihave some indeed, but ’tis not my own, and thereforedo not like to part with it; nevertheless, since being10 THE LII'E OF GEO HOE BUCHANAN.determined as you are to exchange Hows for it, pray"do me the favour to fire y our pistol through the flap-of my cloak, that the owners may see I have beenin great danger of my life before I parted with it,which he accordingly did. No sooner had he firedthe pistol, than George wrapt out his hangei frombelow his cloak and with one stroke cut off hisright hand wherein he held his sword, so that bothhis sword ar.d the hand fell to the ground; butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it to the king.Jib sooner did he come beiore them, but they askedhim, saying, well, George, did you see any body to*trouble you by the way ? None, said he but onefellow, who was going to take the moneyfrom me,butI made him give me his hand he would not do therlike again. You did? says the fellow’s master. YesI did, says George ; let work bear witness, throwingdown the fellow’s hand on the table before them all.7. Now, this last exploit of George’s causedmany of the English to hate him ; and among therest, a young nobleman fell a-joking of George,Saying he would be as famous a champion forScotland as Sir William Wallace was. Ay, ay,says George, Wallace was a brave man in his timeTrue, indeed, says the young nobleman, but whenhe came to London, we did him all mauner of justice,and for honour of the Scots we have his effigy inthe s to this very day. And do you knowthe reason of that, says George ? No, I don’t, sayshe. Well, I’ll tell you, says George : he was sucha terror to Englishmen when he was alive, that thesight of his picture yet makes them p  them"Selves. The English took this answer as a greataffront, and forthwith caused Wallace’s picture to betaken out of all their s .8. A young English girl falling in love with aScotchman, she petitioned him several times for toTHE LIFE OF OEOHOE BUCHANAN. 11marry her, which he refused. So, to be revengedon him, she went to a Justice and swore a rapeagainst him, which is dedh by the law. Georgehearing of this, went to the prison where the youngman was, and instructed him how to behave beforethe judge. So, in the time of the trial George camein while the judge was crying to the man, hutnever a word could he get him to answer, to tellwhether he was guilty or not. After the justicehad given him over for d< af and dumb, others fella-shoutiug in his eais, but never a wordvouldhespeak. Then, the judge peiceuiug George, calledhim, sajing, George, do you know what is thematter with this man ? Yes, 1 do very well, saysGeorge. What is it? says the judge. Why, saysGeorge, the womau made such a noise and cryingwhen he was ravishing her, it has put the poor manquite deaf, I assure you. Is it so? says the justice.No, no, says the woman, my Lord Justice, you maybelieve me, i lay as mute as a lamb, and never spokea word all the time. Very well confessed, said thejustice, and you have sworn a rape upon him. Takethe w to prison, and let the poor man go abouthis business, and so it ended.PART II.George happened one time to he in company witha bishop, and so they fell to dispute anent education,and he blanked the bishop remarkably, and thebishop himself owned he was worsted. Then oneof the company addressed himself to him in thesewords : Tt>ou J'cot, said he, should not have left thycountry. Tor what? says he. Recause thou has12THE LIFE OF GEOEGE BUCHANAN.carried all the wisdom that is in it thither'with tin e.jNo, no, says he, the shepherds in Scotland viildispute with any bishop in London, a-nd exceed themvery far in education. The bishops then took thisas an affront, and several noblemen affirmed it to beas t he Scot had said: bets were laid on each side,and three of the bishops were chosen and sent awayto Scotland to dispute it with the shepherds,accompanied with several others, who were to bearwitness of what they should hear pass between them.Now George, knowing which way they went,immediately took another road and was in Scotlandbefore them. He then made an acquaintance witha shepherd on the border, whose pasture lay on thewayside where the bishops were to pass; and therehe mounted himself in shepherd's dress ; and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his flock tothe roadside, and fell a chanting at a I atin ballad.When the bishops came up to George, one of themasked him in French, what o’clock it was ? Towhich he answered in Hebrew, it is directly aboutthe time of the day it was yesterday at this time.Another asked him in Greek what countiyman hewas? To which he answendin Flemish, if ye knewthat, you would be as wise as myself. A third askedhim in Dutch, where was you educate i ? To whichhe answered in Earse, herding my sheep betweenthis and Lochaber. This they desired him to explaininto English, which he immediately did. Now, saidthey one to another, we need not proceed any farther.What, says George, are you butchers ? I’ll sell youa few sheep. To this they made no answer, butwent away shamefully, and said they believed theScots had been through all the nations in the worldfor their education, or the devil had taught them.Now, when George had ended this dispute with thebishops, he stripped off his shepherd’s dress, and upTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.13through England he goes, with all the hastuimaginable, so that he anived at the place fromwhence they set out, three days before the judges,and went every day asking if they were come, sothat he might not be suspected. As soon as theyarrived, all that were concerned in the dispute andmany more came crowding in, to hear what newstrom the Scottish shepherds, and to know what wasdone. Ko sooner had the three gentlemen declaredwhat had passed between the bishops and the shep¬herds whom they found on the Scots border, butthe old bishop made answer—and think you, said he,that a shepherd could answer these questions ? Ithas been none else but the devil; for the Scotsministers themselves could not do it; they are butignorant ol such mitte s, a parcel of beardless boys.Then George thought it was time to take speech inhand. Well, my Lord Bishop, says George, you callthem a parcel ot ignorant, beardless boys ; you havea great long beard yourself, my Lord Bishop, and ifgrace were measured by beards, you, bishops, andthe goats would have it all, and that wjuid be quiteaverse to Scripture. What, says the bishop, areyou a Scot? Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well,says the bishop, and what is the difference betweena Scot and a sot? .Nothing, at present, says George,but the breadth of the table; there being a tablebetwixt the bishop and George. So the bishop wentoff in a high passion, while the whole multitudewere like to split their jaws with laughter.2. About this time thete was an act of parliamentfor the benefit of murderers, that any person whocommitted murder, if they forfeited five hundredmarks, which went under the name of Kinboot,because, so much of this went to the murderedperson’s nearest relations, as the price of blood, themurderer got a remit. Now, George, knowing this14 THE LIFE OF GEOBGE BUCHANAN.to be contrary to Moses’ laws, was very muchgrieved to see so many pardons sealed by the king’shand for murder; almost one every week. It beingso usual for the king to subscribe them, that hewould not read them, nor enquire what they were :for which cause George writes a writ to the c^own,and sent it to the king to be subscribed, wh’ch heactually did, and never looked what it was, returnedit to George. No sooner had he received it, but hegoes to the king, and told him it. was not time forhim to be sitting there, whereat the king, greatlyamazed, started up; then, George, in great haste,sets himself down in the king’s chair, forthwithdeclaring himself king; saying, you, who was king,must be my fool; for I am now the wisest man.The king at this was greatly offended, until Georgeshowed.him his seal and superscription. But fromthat day forth, the king knew what he subscribed.3. The next pardon that came to be sealed by theking, was a gentleman who had killed two menbefore, and had got pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king was very silent inlooking over the petition: George, standing by,asked the king what he was going to seal now. Towhich he answered, it is a remit for a man who hadkilled three men at sundry times, I gave him tworemits before. Oh, says George, he has killed butone man. And who killed the other two ? says theking. You did, says George, for if you had givenhim justice when he had killed the first, he hadkilled no more. When the king heard these wordshe threw down the pen, and declared that such anact to save a murderer, should be null ever after byhim.4. One day, George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and a spade, and then fallsa-digging at a corner of the king’s palace; whichTHE LIFE OF GEOKGfi BUCHANAN.15the king, perceiving from his window, calls what hewas wanting there Are you going to underminemy house, and make it fall? No, my sovereign,says George, but it is verily reported that there isplenty of money about this house, and where can itbe r says George, I cannot find it, for it is notwithin the house, to do me service, then surely itmust be below it. Oh ! George says the king, thatis a crave after the new fashion, what money youwant I'll order for you. Then, my sovereign, saysGeorge, I’ll dig no more.5. One time, George being in the country, hecame to an inn, where he alighted to refresh him¬self and his horse. The innkeeper charged him doubleprice for every thing he called for. George nevergrumbled at this, but gave him all demands, andaway he goes on his journey. At the inn where hequartered the following night, he was used after thesame manner, if not worse. Having little fartherto go, be returned next day, and came that night tothe inn where he refreshed himself the day’ before.So, when he alighted, the boy asked him what hewould give his horse. What you will, said he,W hen he had gone to his room, the waiter enquiiedwhat he would have to drink. What you will, sayshe. The master of the inn came into his roombefore supper, and enquired what he would have forsupper. What you will landlord, says he. Aftersupper and a hearty howl to put all over, he wentto bed. On the morrow he rose very early, andcalled lor the boy to make ready his horse in all hastefor he was designed to mount and go directly. Soonafter he went into the stable, where the boy was,calling for his horse, when he mounted with all thespeed he could, and gave the boy a piece of money,saying, here my boy, this is for taking care of my’horse; I have paid for all 1 have ordered in the house,) 6THE LIFE OF GEOKGE BUCHANAN.and off he gjes. About mid day he alighted againat an inn to refresh himself and his horse, and there hechanced to be in company with his other landlordwhere he was the night before, and charged himwith the double reckoning, he addressed himselfto him in the following manner:—Sir, says he, I dobelieve I was in your house yesternight. Oh yes,Sir, says he, I mind of you pretty well. And wherewas you last night ? Last night, says George, I wasin one of the finest inns, and the civilest landlord Iever had in my life; they brought all things that, Istood in need of unto me without calling for them,and when I came off this morning, they charged menothing, and I paid nothing but sixpence to the boyfor dressing my horse. Blood and wounds ! s dd theold fellow, then I'll go there this night. Ay, saysGeorge, do, and m ad this, when they ask you whatyou will have for yourself and your horse, answernothing but, what you will, sir. George smilingwithin himself, to think how he had got the oneextortioner to take amends of the other. So thisinnkeeper set off on his journey, and rode so latethat night that he might reach the cheap i- n, that,most of the people were gone to bed before hearrived. As soon as he dismounted from his horse,the boy enquired at him, . What shall I give yourhorse, master? To which he answered, What youwill, boy. The boy he aring this, runs away, (leavinghim and his horse to stand at the door), upstairs tohis master’s room, crying Master, master, What-you-will is come again. Oh the rogue, cries he, whereis he ? I’ll cane him—I’ll what you will him, byand by. Then to him he runs with his cane, licksand kicks him until he was scarce able to mount hishorse, and would give him no enter: ainment there,which caused him to ride the whole of a coldwinter night, after he had got his bones all beat andTHE LIFE OF GKOBGE BUCHANAN.17^bruised. So the one pursued the other as a mur¬derer, and his defence was that he was a cheat and ascorner of his house, until the truth was found out.6. About this time the French king sent anddemanded from the king of England, three men ofdifferent qualities. The first was to be a mightystrong man; the second a very wise man ; and thethird a very great fool; eo that he might have nonein all France to match them. So accordingly therewere two men chosen; the one a strong man, andthe other a very wise man, but George was to act asthe fool; nevertheless, ho was the teacher of the-other two On tin ir way to France George askedthe strong man, what will you answer the Fienchking when he asks if you be a strong man ? Why,•says he, I'll say 1 am. Then, says George, he'llpossibly get a stronger man than you, who will killyou, and aff,out > our country. What shall I saythen, said the strong man. Why, says George, tellhim you are strong enough untried. Then said heto the wise man, and what will you say to the kingwhen he asks if you are a wise man ? Why, I’lltell him I am, and answer him all the questions Iknow. Very well, says George, but what if he asksyou w hat you do not know ? Then you’ll affrontyour country, and be looked upon us a greater foolthan me. V ell, and what shall 1 answer then ?-said the wise man. Why, says George, tell him heis only a wise man that can take care of himself;.and I shall come in after you and take care of jou.altogether. As soon as they arrived at the king ofFiance’s palace, the king sent for them to try them.The strong man was first called for, and in he went;then the king asked him if he was a strong man ?to which he answered, 0 king! I am strong enoughuntried. Very well, said the king. Afier him the-arise man was culled; and the king asked him if he18THK LIFE OF GEORGE BITCHANAN.Avas a wise man ? to which he answered, he is onlya wise m m who can take care of himself. Very■well, says tke king. On which George pushed up-the door, and in he went, with loud laughter, andp  directly in his Majesty’s face, which blindedboth his eyes, and put the whole court in amaze.IS'ow, now, said his Majesty, it. is true enough whatthe wise man says, for if I had taken care of myselfT need not have been p  upon by the Englishfool. 0 ho, says George, fools always strive to maketools of others, but wise men make lools of them¬selves. By this bis Majesty seemed to think he wasmade the greatest fool, and charged them to go home,,for he wanted no more of England’s strength,wisdom, or folly.7. One night a Highland drover chanced to havea drinking bout with an English captain ol a ship,and at last they came to he very In arty over theircups, so that they called in their servants to have ashare of their liquor. The drover’s servant lookedlike a wild man, going without breeches, stockings,or shoes, not so much as a bonnet on his head, witha long peeled rung in his hand. The captainasked the drover how long it was since hecatched him? He answered, it is about two yearssince I hauled him out of the sea with a net, andafterwards ran into the mountains, where l catchedhim with a pack of hounds. The captain believedit was so; but, says he, I have a servant the bestswimmer in the world. 0, but, says the drover,my servant will swim him to death. No, he willnot, says the captain I’ll lay one hundred crownson it. Then, says the drover, I’ll lay it oue to one,and staked directly, the day being appointed whentrial was to be made. Now the drover, when hecame to himself, thinking on what a bargain he hadmade, did not know what to do, knowing very wellTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.1^that his servant could swim none. He heating of(ieorge being in town, who was always a good friendto Scotchmen, 1m went unto him and told him hwhole story, and that he would be entirely broke,-and durst never return home to his own country, forhe was sure to lose it. Then George called thedrover and his man aside, and instructed them hotVto behave, so that the) should be safe and gain too.So accordingly they met at the place appointed.The captain’s man stript direcdy and threw himselfinto the sea, taking a turn until the Higldandmanwas ready, for the drover took some time to put hisservant iu or der. Adler he was stripped, his mastertook his plaid, and rolhd a kebbuck of cheese, a bigloaf, and a bottle of gin in it, and this he bound onhis shoulders, giving him directions to tell his wifeand children that he was well, and to be sure hereturned with an answer against that day se’nnight.As he went into the sea he looked back to his master,and called out to him for his claymore. And whatwaits he for now ? says the captain’s servant. Hewants his sword, says his master. His sword, saysthe fellow ; what is he to do with a sword ? Why,says his master, if he meets a whale or a monstrousbeast it is to defend his life. I know he will haveto fight his way through the north seas ere he get toLochuber. Then, cried the captain’s servant, I’llswim none with him, if he takes his sword. Ay,but, says his master, you shall, or lose the wager}take you another sword with you. Ho, says thefellow, I never did swim with a sword, nor any manelse, that ever I saw or heard of; 1 know not butthat wild man will kill me in deep water. I wouldnot for the whole world, venture myself with himand a sword. The captain seeing his servant afraidto venture, or if he did, be would never see himagain alive, therefore he desired an agreement with20THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.the drover, who at first seemed unwilling; but the.captain putting it in his will, the drover quit himfor half the sum. This he came to through George'sadvice.8. George was one day met by three bishops,who paid him the following compliments : says thefiist, good morrow, Father Abraham; says thesecond, good morrow, Father Is iac; says the third,good morrow, Father Jacob. To which he replied,1 am neither Father Abraham, Father Isaac, norFather Jacob; but I am Saul, the son of Kish, sentnut to seek my father’s asses, and, lo! I have foundthree of them. Which answer fu'ly c mvinced thebishop’s that they had mistaken their m.m.9. A poor Scotchman dined one day at a publichouse in London upon eggs, and not having moneyto pay, got credit till he should return. The manbeing lucky in trade, acquired vast riches; and after■some years happening to pass that way, calls at thehouse where he wras owing the dinner of eggs.Having called for the innkeeper, he asked him whathe had to pay for the dinner of eggs he had got fromhim such a timeThe landlord seeing him nowrich, gave him a bill of several pounds, telling himas his reason lor so extravagant a charge, that theseeggs, had they been hatched, would have beenchickens; and these, laying more eggs would havebeen more chickens; and so on, multiplying theeggs and their product till such time as their valueamounted to the sum charged. The man refusingto comply with this demand, was charged before ajudge. He then made his case known to George,his countryman, who promised lo appear in the hourof cause, which he accordingly did, all in a sweat,with a great basket of boiled pease, which appearanceeurpiised the judge, who asked him what he meantby these boiled pease. S13 S Geoige, I am going toTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN'.21bow them. ^ hen will they grow? said the judge.They will grow, said George, when sodden eggs growchickens, which answer convinced the judge of theextravagance of the innkeeper’s demand, and theScotsman was acquitted for twopence halfpenny.George one day easing himself at the corner ofa hedge, was espied by an English squire, who beganto mock him, asking him why he did not keckle likethe hens? But George, whose wit was alwaysready, told him he was afraid to keckle, lest hewould come and snatch up the egg, which rebuffmade the squire walk off as mute as a fish.George was profissor of the College of St An¬drews, and slipt out one day in his gown and slippers,and went on his travels through Italy, and severalother foreign countries, and after seven years re¬turned with the same dress he went off in; andentering the college, look possession of his seatthere ; but the professor in his room quarrelled himfor so doing. Ay, says George, it is a very oddthing that a man cannot take a walk out in hisslippers, but another will take up his seat. And soset the other professor about his businessiwo diunken fellows one day fell a-bcating oneanother on the streets of London, which caused agreat crowd of people to throne together t see whatit was. A tailor being at work up in a garret, aboutthree or four stories high, and he hearing the noisem the street, looking over the window, and alightedon an old man who was walking on the street; thepoor tailor was more afraid than hurt, but the manhe fell on died directly. His son caused the tailorto be apprehended and tried for the murder of bisfather; the jury could not bring it in wilful murderneither could they altogether free the tailor • thejury gave it over to the judges, and the judges tothe king. The king asked George’s advice in thisTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHA>TAN.22hard raattcr. Why, says George, I will give youmy opinion in a minute : you must cause the tailorto stand in the street, where the old gentleman waswhen he was killed by the tailor, and then let theold gentleman’s son, the tailor’s adversary, get up tothe window from whence the tailor fell, and jump■down and so kill the tailor as he did his father. Thetailor’s adversary hearing the sentence past, hewould not venture to jump out of the window, andso the tailor got clear off.George went into the mint one day when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George ifhe would have his hat lull of gold ? George readilyaccorded, but it burned the bottom out of his hat, asthey knew it would, and for the bout foiled George.However George, to be up with them, bought a tine,large hat, and caused a plate of copper to be putbetwixt the hat and the lining; and returning nextday they jestingly asked him if he would haveanother hat lull of gold ; he said he would. Theygave it red hot, and George now laughed at them inhis turn ; telling them that his new hat was a goodone, and stood fire better than the old one, and socarried it otf honestly, and being afterwards pros¬ecuted for to return it, he excused himself, tellingthe judge, that he took nothing but what was givenhim, and therefore he was honourably acquitted,and the other heartily laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fashions, a short time before his death, he hada great desire to visit lus native country, and theplace of his nativity. Therefore he petitioned theking for permission to do so, which was granted.So he set out for Scotland, and went to the parishof Buchanan, in Dumbartonshire, where he visitedall his relations and friends.—But George staying<tLIKE LIFE OF GEOBGE BUCHANAN.23longer from court than the time allowed, the kingsent him several messages to return, to which hereturned no answer. At last the king sent him aletter, threatening that if he did not appear beforehim in the space of twenty days he would send hisLyon Heralds for him; to which George returnedthe following answer :—My honoured liege, and sovereign king,Of your boasting great 1 dread nothing;On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his king¬dom and the well-being of his soul; which drewtears f rom the king’s eyes when he read it.WILL SCOTT.A celebrated attendant upon the Sheriff, wellknown for his activity in the execution of his orders,as well as for taking a bit comfortable guzzel whenfinances would afford it, was one Sabbath day snuglyseated in the pew behind the Baillies at church.Will had not been there long till he was soon lull’dinto sweet slumbers, and fancied himself seatedalong with his companions over a good imperial balf-mutchkin, and in a short time the reckoning camea-paying, when some of the party insisted it wasalready paid; however, Will happened not to be ofthat opinion, and true to his integrity, bawled outwith all his might in the midst of the sermon, “Ho,no, by my faith it’s no pay’t, we have had just a’ehalf-mutchkiu, and tvva bottles o’ ale, and there’sno a fardin/o’t pay’t.”24THE LIFE OE GEOItGE BUCHANAN.GRAVE-DIGGER OE SORN.The Grave-digger of Sorn, Ayrshire, was as selfishand as mean a sinner as ever handled mattock, ormortcloth. He was a very quarrelsome and dis¬contented old man, with a voice like the whistle ofthe wind through a key-hole. On a bleak Sundayafternoon in the country, an acquaintance from aneighbouring parish accosted him and asked how theworld was moving with him, “Oh, very puirly, sir,very puirly indeed,” was the answer, “the yard hasdone naething ava for us this summer, if ye like tobelieve me, I havna buried a levin’ soul this saxweeks.”HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Droeer passing through a certaintown, noticed a sign-board above an entry, with thefollowing inscription:Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marumi ides, Jellies,Capped Biscuits, and all sorts of ConfectioneryGoods, sold down this entry.He read it as follows : —Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, Jades,Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts of ConfusionaryGoods, sold down this entry.f