NEGRO SERVANT.AN AUTHENTIC ANDINTERESTING NARRATIVEOF Ar 0 ILW G NEGRO.••SH-EWfNSHow he was made a Slave in Africa, and carriedto Jamaica, where he was sold to a Captain In' his Majesty’s Navy, and taken to America, wherehe became a Christian ; and afterwards broughtI to England, and baptized.J^tL^AltNOCK :Printed by it. CratofirdiFOR THE BOOK3FLI.ER3.Mh '• TNEGRO SERVANT.PART I.TOURING a residence of some years continance in the neighbourhood of the sea, sOfficer in the Navy called upon the Writer, aistated, that he had just taken a lodging in tparish for his wife and .children; and, that :had a Negro, whom he had kept three years in fservice. ‘ The lad is a handy fellow,’ said tlOfficer, ‘ and he has a great desire to be baptizeI have promised to ask you to do it for him, if ydhave not any objection.’‘ Does he know any thing,’ I replied, ‘ of tprinciples of the Christian religion ?’‘ O yes, I am sure he does,’ replied the Carain ; ‘ for he talks a deal about it in the kitcheand often gets laughed at for his pains ; buttakes it all very patiently.’* Does he behave well as your servant ?*‘ Yes, that he does : he is honest, and as civ:fellow, as ever came aboard a ship, or lived ithouse.’ •‘ Was he always so well behaved ?’‘ No,’ said the Officer ; ‘ when I first had hihe was often very unruly, and deceitful; but, Jthe last two years he has been quite like anotl3j ( Well, Sir, I shall he very glad to see him, andmink it probable I may go through a course of in¬ruction and examination ; during which I shalle able to form a judgment, how far it will be;ghtto admit him to the sacrament of baptism,ilan he read f1 ‘ Yes, replied hiis Master *, ‘ he has been tak-'pg great pains to Ifearn to read for some time past,nd can make out a chapter.in the Bible very well,s my maid servant informs me. He speaks Eng-sh better than many of his countrymen, but youivill find it a little broken. When will it be eon-ifenient that I should send him over to you?’‘To-morrow afternoon. Sir*,if you please.’! * He shall come to you,about four o’clock, andtou shall see what you can make of him,’I With this promise he took his leave. Lfelt glad!>f an opportunity of instructing a native of that:and whose wrongs and injytiies had often causedine to sigh and mourn. i v, . >! At the appointed.hour my Negro disciple ar-■ived. He was a very young locking man, withh sensible, lively, and pleasing turn of countenance.I I desired him to sit down* and said, ‘Ypyj mas¬her informs me, that you wish to have some con¬versation with me, respecting Christian Baptism?’j ‘Yes, Sir, me very much wish tq be a Christian.’‘ Why do you wish so ?’ ‘ , i ,‘ Because me know that Christian go to heavenyhen he die.’ »j ‘ How long have you had that wish ?’•! said.‘ Ever since me hear one goot minister preachIn America ; two years ago.’!| ‘ Where were you born ?’* In Africa. Me -was very little boy, when mewas made slave by the white men.’f4‘ How wag that r*‘ Me left -fatheti and mother one day at hot*i^'go’get shells by the Sea shore ; and, as I wsfoOping’down to gather them, some white sai!<J|came out of a boas, and took; me away. Me ne\see father nor .mother again.’ - ;;‘ AWrf what became of ywi thdn f’ iqrt‘ MteiWad'pat irttbship^arRi'b'rotigbt to Jamaitjland sojd ftwidr.hstft, wlit) keep mo in.his house'serve binrf{$oM3 yeans ; whew,‘'about three'yeaago, Gapf. W^--, my master that s^cke to yojbought' Ate to be Ins servant,-(On boxrd his shlAnd ;he be goot master ; he gsve nie my liberand m& Sve wkfi hitn^ever woa. .■ 'I '«* And!whnt thoughts had yt>u about ycursbulthat time before ybu went to America jf’ I asket ‘,Me^ Ao-care for my soul at all before then.’< Well, noW tell me farther what happenedlyou-iA America. How came y,on there rf L:.‘ Aly master take me there in his ship, and stt-tliefe che montlrj awd themme hear goot ministdb it Add What -Aid that minister-'say f ’ •' ‘’He said, me was great sinner.’!—fc-What did he speak to you in particular ?’‘ YeS, me think so r for there was great manto hear Him,-but he SeM them all about me.’',n* W-hati did he say ?’‘ fie say, about all the things in my heart,’i VVhat things f’ •'‘ My sin, my ignorance, my know nothing, mbelieve nothing. The goot minister made r^e setthat rpe-think nothing goot, nor do nothing goot« And what else did he tell you ?’< He sometimes look me in the face, and satJesus Christ came to die fer sinners, poor blacjsinners, as well as white sinners. .. Me though,5fiis was very goot nadecdt .to dojSo for a picked/in’ier.’ . * LI 4 And what ma^e,youjt\iink this was all spokeno you iijify-rycular,?’,,,' 3!,0 ,f, ^;n i ■']'.« Bacausfo’jse,. sare, ijo swch’wicked pinner apns in all the.,pl.tce(,.1,j; odl i. •</ >da acJ.:; -4 And what did yp^, think aljout y.purself whilejie preached about Jesus .Christ?’. . > _j, ‘ Sir, m,e was yery afr^id^ wlven he saidiije wilted piust ;iato.^ell fire. For mp-j’ek, that natj-was a^wick^d ^ipugr,, and that malcepie cry. He talk much about 'thcof Christjto sinners, and that.niajcatvre pry mare. And me■thought m« must, love..Jesus .Christ, but me notjfenow how, and that make me cry again.’4 D14 ypu hear more sermons ^hj?n one .duringthat month ?’ . .J*4 Yes, Sir, master gave me leave to g$ lit reptimes, and all the times me wanted to love Jesus«more, and do what Jesus said j.but my hgart.seemisometime hard like a stone.’ . -d. :,.< Have you heard any pireachipg since that.time ?|| *Npver j till me he^ permon at, this phurch last/Sunday, and then me long to be baptized in Jesus’jiiathe; for me had no Chtjstian friends to baptia^e: me, when little child.’j 4 What have,been youy thoughts .all the.timesince you fiifst heard these sermons in America jidid you tell any body thernwha^ you felt ?’j j 4 No i me speak to pobody buit to Gody]th.en —1 The goot minister syy, that God- llear,the>cry ofi the poor: so me cry to God, and he heJir me.Apd me often think about Jesus Christy and wi.-h; to be like him., . od,4 Can ypu read r’ . q-.l aid »; . .‘Ahttlo.’ ,, m did.v rm/.J bn«‘ God teach me to read.’* "What do yoa ’mean by sayin^-bo ?’‘ God give me desire to read,J and that mainreading easy, blaster give me a BiMe^ and oilsailor shew me the letters, and so me learn to renby myself, with God’s gbot help.*‘ And what do you read in the Bible ?’‘ O me read all about Jesus Christ, and how iji»loved sinners; add kicked meri kill him, and Sbdied, and came again from‘the grave, and albthfor poor Negro.** 'y°bh •■.y. .--i ; m ?:?‘ What do the people say about •your reading art:praying, and attention td the things of God f’ t|‘ Some wicked people that do not love Jesus, cabme great fool; and Negro dog, and black hypo;!'crite. That make me sometime feel angry; burlthen me remember Christian must not be angrifor that; Jesus Christ was called ugly black namejftand he was quiet as a lamb: and so then me urmember Jesus Christ, and me say nothing.’ ■ ||I was much delighted with the simplicity' anifiapparent sincerity of this poor Negro'; and wishedto ascertain what measure of light arid feeling hi1-possessed on a few leading'poims. St. Paul’s sumiiimary of religion occurred to me, I Said, »Te&rme what is faith? What is your own faith ? Whalildo you believe about Jesus, and your own soul r 1‘ Me believe that J^Sus Christ ’came into th»!:world to save sinners; and though tne be chtef o 'sinners, yet Jesus will save nve though me be 'onb tpoor black Negro.’u * What is your hope ? What do you hope ft>f_<both as to this life, and that which is to come ?’ 1‘ Me hope Jesus Christ will keep me from sin iand harm while me live here ; and me hope, when7(tie come to die, to go and live with him always,imd never die again.’‘ What are your thoughts about Christian love>r charity; whom or what do you most love ?’■j « Me love God the Father, because he was so;!;oot to send his Son. Me love Jesus Christ, be¬cause he love me. Me love all men, black menand white men t«o ; for God made them all. Meove all goot Christian people, because Jesus love:hem, and they love Jesus.*Such was my first conversation with this youngdisciple ; l rejoiced in the prospect of receivinghim into the church, agreeably to his wishes. £wished, however, to converse somewhat farther,and inquire more minutely into his conduct; and'promised to ride over and see him in a few day1',lat his master’s lodgings*| When he was gone, I thought within myself,!God hath indeed redeemed souls by the blood ofihis Son, ‘ out of every kindred and tongue, andipeople and nation.’ If many of them for a timeare devoted to earthly slavery, through the crtul'avarice of man: yet, blesssed be God, that some'amongst them are, through Divine Grace, called:to the glorious liberty of the children of God; andso are redeemed from the slavery of him, whomakes so many captive at his will.It is a happy thought, that ‘ Ethiopia shall soonl stretch forth her hands unto God. Sing unto. God, • ye kingdoms of the earth, O sing praises1 unto the Lord !’• I will cry unto God most high ; unto God that: performeth all things for me.’My interviews with the Negro suggested thefollowing lines, which I here subjoin under thetitle of The Negro's Prayr.8THE NEGRO’S PRAYER.JESUG U'ho mak’st the meanest soulAp object of thy care.Attend to what my heart would speak,Hear a poor Negro's prayer.For thou, when bleeding on the cross,My sins and griefs did’st bear;This mak’st me think thou’lt not refuseTo hear a Negro’s prayer.I was a helpless Negro boy,And wander’d on the shore,Thieves took me from my parents’ arms1 never saw them more.But yet my lot, which seem’d so hard.Quite otherwise did prove -,For I was carried far from homeTo learn a Saviour’s love.Poor and despised though I was.Yet thou, O God, wast nigh,And when thy mercy first I saw,Sure none so glad as I.In ignorance I long had liv’d,A rebel too had been :But thy great kindness, O my God,Sav’d me from all my sin.Mine was a wretched state, expos’d• To men and angels view ;A slave to man, a slave to sin,A slave to Satan too.!But if the Son hath made jme free.Then I am free indeed *,I From power of man, of sin, and hell.For evermore are held.! O ! send thy word to that far land,Where none but Negro’s live;i Teach them the' way, the truth, the life,Thy grace, thy blessing give.! O ! that my father, mother dear,Might there thy mercy see ;Tell them what Christ has done for themWhat Christ has done for me.Whose God is like the Christian’s God ?Who can with him compare ?He hath compassion on my soul,And hears a Negro’s prayer.i Lord Jesus, thou hast shed thy bloodFor thousands such as me :Many despise poor Negro slaveyBut l am lov’d by thee.And this is all I want below',To be thy constant care.Keep me from sin and danger, Lord,And hear a Negro’s prayer.In Heaven, the land of glory lies,If I should enter there,I’ll tell the saints, and angels too,Thou heard’st a Negro’s prayer.XECRO AMONG THE ROCKS.TART II.many days after the first interview with nrNegro disciple, I went from home with thdesign of conversing with him again at his master’s house. Ihe road lay over a lofty down o;hill, which commands a prospect of scenery seldom equalled for beauty and magnificence. Igave birth to silent but instructive meditation.The down was covered with sheep grazing orits pasture. Here and there a shepherd’s-bojwatched over the floch committed to his care.On my right hand, to theS|Outhand south-eastthe unbounded ocean displayed its mighty wavesIt was covered with vessels of every size,, sailingin all directions.At the south-west of the spot on which I w'atriding, extended aTeautiful bay, bounded by higlcliffs. Beyond tjhis lay a range of hills, whicbfmeeting with another from the north, boundslarge fruitful vale, whose fields, now ripe for liar-vest, proclaimed the goodness of God in the richprovision which he makes for the sons of men.He prepares the corn, he crowns the year withhis goodness, and his paths drop fatness. Theydrop upon the pastures of the wulderness, and thelittle hills rejoice on every side. The pastures areclothed w ith flocks ; the valleys, also are coveredover with corn : they shout for joy, they also sing,As I looked upon the numerous ships movingbefore me, I remembered the words of the Psal¬mist •, *• They that go down to the sea in ships,■that do business in great \r.ters : these see theworks of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep.I or he commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind,which lifteth up the waves thereof. They mountup to the heaven,they go down agTin to thedepths;their soul is melted because of trouble. Theyreel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man,and are at their wits end. Then they cry untothe Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth themout of their distresses. He maketh the storm aj calm, so that the waves thereof are still. Then< are they glad, because they be quiet: so he bring-j eth them unto their desired haven. O ! that men; would praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his| wonderful works towards the children of men !”f Psalm cvii.As I pursued the meditations which this mag¬nificent and varied scenery excited in my mind, Iapproached the edge of a tremendous perpendicir-nr chlF, with which the down terminates ; I dis-niounted from my horse, and tied it to a hush.J he breaking of the waves against the foot of thecuft at so great a distance beneath me, producedan incessant and pleasant murmur. Thfr‘seit-‘'Tullswere flying between the top of the c]?ff whtr^ Istood, and the rocks below, attending upon theirnests, built m the holes of the cliff. The wholescene, in every direction, was grand and impres¬sive ; it was suitable to devotion. The Creatorappeared in the works of his creation, and calledon the creature to honour and adore. To the bedo',bl>' “■ H* possesses a covenantright to the enjoyments of nature and Providence,'!el1 33 the privileges of grace. His title-deed runs thus : All things are yours ; whetheraul or A polios, or Cephas, or the world, or life,12ord'eath, or things, present or things to Come ; allare yours; and ye afeiChrist’s, and Christ is God’s.’I:castvnay eye dpyvnwards.a little to the left to-wartl^ft'SfH^ll cov<e,-thj» sltore of which consists ofhtje ^t|sIt vs surrounded by fragments ofrodtl chalk clifl's, and steep banks of broken earth.Shut out from human intercourse and dwellings,it seems formed for retirement and contemplation.On one of these rocks I unexpectedly observed aman sitting:;with a book which he; was reading.The .place'Jvas Heat two hundred yards perpendi¬cularly below me, but 1 soon discovered by bisdress, and by the h^ck colour of his features, con¬trasted with the white rocks beside him, that itwas no other than my Negro disciple; with, asI doubted not, a Bible in his hand, I rejoiced atthis wploctkedTfor opportunity of meeting him insc? solitary .and. interesting a situation, jl descend--ed a steep bank, winding by a kind of rude stair¬case, formed by fishermen and shepherds boy-s inthe siije, of the cliff down to the shore.Ko.was intent on his book, and did' not per¬ceive me lill I approached very near to him..fcWiUiam,; is that you r’‘ Ah .k Massa, me very glad to see you Howcome Massa into this place ? Me thought nobodyhere, but only God and me.’‘ I was coming to your Master’s house to see you,and rode round by this way for the sake of the prc*-spect. I often come here in fine weather,: to lookat the sea, and the shipping. Is that your Bible i’‘ Yes, fjir, that my dear goot Bible.’‘ I am glad,’ said I, ‘ to see you so well em¬ployed, It is a good sign, William.’‘ Yes, Massy* a sign that God is goot to me ;but me never goot to God.’ 'd :13< How so - '< Ma never link him enough : me never prayI, ihim enough; me never remember enough who^ve me all dese goot 'tings. Massa, me afraid,i\y heart is very bat. Me wish me was like yon.| ‘Like me, William ? why, you are like me, ajaor helpless sinner; that must, like yourself, pe-Ish in his sins, unless God of his intinite mercy|nd grace, pluck him as a brand from the barnirrg,md make him an instance of distinguishing lovemd favour. There is no difference ; we have bothlome short of the glory of God ; all have sinned.| ‘No, me not like you, Massa ; me tink nobodyIke me, nobody feel such a heart as me.; ‘ Yes, William, your feelings, I am persuadedire like those of every truly convinced soul, whoiees the exceeding sinfulngss of sin, and the great-kess of the prffe which Christ Jesus paid for thejrinnet’s ransom. You can say in the words ofthe hymn,: ■ « I, the chief of sinners am,I, « But Jesus d:ed for me.’;< o yes, «ir,! me believe that Jesus die for poorNegro. What would become of poor wicked Ne-igro, if Christ no die for him. But he die for the(chief of sinners, and dat make my heart sometimequite glad.’ .| ‘ \Vhat part of the BibTe were you reading's‘ Me read how de man upon the cross spoke to: Christ, and Christ spoke to him. Now dat man’siprayer just do for me. ‘Lord remember me.’Lord, remember poor Negro sinner ; this is myprayer every morning, and sometitne at night too;when me cannot tink of many words, then mesay the same again, Lord, remember poor Negro: sinner.’IH‘ be assured, William, the Lor J hears t!prayer. He pardoned and accepted the thief upthe cross, and he will not reject you ; he wiltno wise cast out any that come to him.’. ‘ Nj>» Sir, f believe it: but there is so much siim my heart, it make me arraid and sorry. Mass]do you see these limpets, how fast they stick tthe rocks here ? just so, sin stick fast to my hear‘ It may be so, William; but take another conpanson : do you cleave to Jesus Christ by faith iIns death and righteousness,as those limpets cleavto the rock, and neither seas nor storms shall siparate you from his love.’ ,4 Dat is just what me want.’4 Tell me, William, is not that very sin whidyou speak of, a burden to you? You do not love it4 O yes; me give all this world, if me had it, t<be without sin.’4 Come then, and welcome to Jesus Christ, mibrother : his blood cleanseth from all sin. Hegave himself as a ransom for sinners. He hatlborne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He waiwounded for our transgressions: he was bruisedror our iniquities-; the chastisement of our peacewas upon him, and with his stripes we ar'e healed.Ihe Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.Come freely, come to Jesus, theSaviour of sinners.’4 Yes, .Massa,’ said the poor fellow, weeping,4 Me will come,; but me come very slow, verySiOw, Massa,; me want to run Jesus is very gootto poor Negro, to send you to tell him this.’4 But this is not the first time you have heardthese truths.’‘No, Sir, they have been comfort to my soulniany times since me hear goot minister preach inAmerica, as me tell you last week at your house.’15* Well, now I hope, William, that since Godlias been so graciously pleased to open your eyes,and affect your mind with such a great sense of' his goodness, in giving his Son to die for ypur.1 sake ; I hope, that you do your endeavour to keep^ his commandments. I hope you strive to behavewell to your Master and Mistress, and fellow-ser¬vants. He that is a Christian inwardly, will be aChristian outwardly : he that truly and savingly1 believes in Christ, will shew' his faith by his works,as the Apostle says. Is it not so, William ?’‘ Me love my fellow servants, though, as I tellyou before, they not much love me, and I prayGod to bless them. And when they say bat tings,•and try to make me angry, then me tink, if Tesus1 Christ were in poor Negro’s place, he would notrevile and answer again with bat w’ords and tem¬per, but he say little, and pray much., And sothen, me say nothing at all, but pray God to for¬give them.’The more I conversed u ith this African con¬vert, the more satisfactory were the evidences ofhis mind being spiritually enlightened, and hisheart effectually wrought on by the grace of God.I continued for a considerable time in conver¬sation with the Negro. I spoke to him on thenature, duty, and privilege of Christian Baptism ;pointed out to him from a prayer-book which Ihad with me, the clear and scriptural principles ofour own church upon that head, and found thathe was very desirous of conforming to them. Heappeared to me to be well qualified for receivingthat sacramental pledge of his Redeemer’s love.‘ God,’ said 1 to him, ‘ has promised to sprinklemany nations, not only with the waters of baptism,butalso with the dew of his heavenly grace. He■M:rnirneMm*1says, he will not only pour water on him that isthirsty,’ but ‘ 1 will pour my spirit’upon thy seed,Jmd my blessings upon thine offspring.’‘ Yes, Massa,’ said he, ‘ He can'make me to beclean in heartland of a right spirit; he can purgeme with hyssop, and [ shall be clean: he can washme, and I shall be whiter than snow ’tl was much pleased with the affectionate man¬ner in which he spoke of bis parents, from whomhe had been stolen in his childhood ; and his wishesthat God might-direct them by some meahs to theknowledge •of a Saviour.‘ Who knows,’ said I, ‘ but some of these shipsmay be carrying a missionary to the country wherethey live, to declare the good news of salvation toyour countrymen, and to your own dear parentsin particular, if they are yet alive.’ *‘ O! my dear father and mother: my deargracious Saviour !’ exclaimed he, leaping from theground as he spoke, ‘ if thofl wilt but save theirsouls, and tell them what thou hast done for sin¬ners—but,’—He stopped and seemed much affected. ** My friend,’ said I, ‘ I will now pray With youfor your own soul, and for those of your parentsalso.’‘ Do, Massa, ddt isvery goot and kind, do prayfor poet Negro souls here and every where.’This was a new and solemn ‘ house of prayer.’The sea sand was our floor, the heavens were Ourtbof; the cliffs, the rocks, the hills and the waves,formed the walls of our chamber. It was not in¬deed a ‘ place where prayer was wont to be made;’but for this once, it became a hallowed spot: itwill by me ever be remembered as such. Thepresence of God was there.—-I prayed. The17Negro V'ept—His heart was full. I felt with him,and wept likewise.The last day will shew, whether our tears werenot the tears of sincerity and Christian lore.It was time for my return, 1 leaned upon hisarm as we ascended the steep diffin my way hackto my horse, which I had left at the top of the hill.Humility and thankfulness were marked in hiscountenance. I leaned upon his arm with thefeelings of a brother. It was a relationship I washappy to own.—I took him by the hand at part¬ing, appointed one more interview previous to theday of baptizing.him, and bid him farewel for thepresent.‘ God bless you, my dear Mass^.’‘ And you, my fellow Christian, for over and'even Amen.THEXLCZO's ns IT TO TIJZ COTTA CZ.part/in. , < :rpHE very interesting'and affecting conversation^which I had with the Negro Servant, noticedin the two former parts, produced-a sensation noteasy to be expressed. As 1 returned home, I wasled into meditation on the singular clearness andbeauty of those evidencer of faith and conversionto God, which l had just seen and heard. Howplainly, 1 thought, it appears, that salvation- isfreely by grace through faith; and that not ofourselves, it is. the gift of God ; not of works, lestany man should boast. What but the Holy Spirit,who is the author and giver of the life of grace,could have wrought such a change from the tmee13dark, perverse, and ignorant heathen, to this now-convinced, enlightened, humble and believingChristian? • * •I afterwards made particular inquiry into thisyoung man’s doniescie and general deportment.Every thing I heard was satisfactory i nor couldI entertain a doubt irespecting the consistency ofhis conduct and character. I had some fartherconversations with him; in the Course of which Ipursued such a plan of Scriptural instruction andexamination, as I concei ved to be the most suit¬able to his progressive state of mind. He improv¬ed much in reading, carried his Bible constantlyin his pocket, and took every opportunity,.whichhis duty to his master’s service would allow, forperusing it.I had for a considerable time been accustomedto meet some serious persons once a week, in acottage at no great distance from the house wherehe lived, for the purpose of religious conversation,instruction, and prayer. Having found these oc¬casions remarkably useful and interesting to my¬self and others, I thought it; would be very desire-able to take the Negro there, in order that theremight be many witnessess to the simplicity andsincerity of real Christianity, as exhibited in thecharacter of this promising young convert.I accordingly obtained his master’s leave -thathe should attend me to one of my cottage assem¬blies.' As I.approached the house, I saw my friendthe Negro sitting under a tree, and waiting myarrival. He held in his hand a little tract whichI had given him ; his Bible lay on the ground.He rose with much cheerfulness, saying,« Ah ! Mussa, me very gUd to see you, me tihkyou long time coming.’• William, I hope you are well. I am goingto take you with me to a few' of my friemls, who,I hope are also the friends of the Lord. We meetevery Wednesday evening for conversation aboutthe things that belong to our' everlasting peace,and'I am sure ymiiwiil be a welcome visitor.’1 Massa, me not goot enough to be with suchgoot people. Me great sinner. They be goodChristian.’‘ If you wete to ask them, William, they wouldeach tell you, they were worse than 'any body.Many of them were once, and that not very longago, living in a very openly sinful manner, igno¬rant of God ; and the enemies of Jesus Chri >t bythought and deed. But Divine Grace stoppedthem in their wicked course, and subdued theirhbarts to the love and obedience of him and his-Gospel. ■ You will only meet a company of poorfellow sinners, who love to speak and sing thepraises of redeeming love: and I am sure, Wil¬liam, that is a song you will be willing to jointhem in.’ . _ .‘ Yes, Sir, dat song just do for poor William.’By this time we had arrived at the cottage gar¬den gate. Several well known faces appeared inand near the house, and the smile of 'affectionw elcomed Us as we entered. It was known thatthe Negro w'as to visit the little Society this even¬ing, and satisfaction beamed in eve^y countt nance,as I took him by the hand and introduced himamong them, saying, ‘ I have brought a brotherfrom Africa to see you, my friends. Bid himWelcome in the name of the laird Jesus Christ.’‘ Sir,’ said an humble and pious labourer, whosok heart and tongue always overflowed with Christiankindness,1 We have heard how gracious the Lord1 ■ & ■ '120has been to him. Give me your iiami,.good friend^ ,(turning to the Negro,) God be.with you here and Ievery where; and blessed be his Hofy Naure for :calling wicked sinneus,. asrJ hope.be has d&ne you iand me, to love and serve hint'£d»' his mercy’s sake’.,Each one greeted him as'he came into the house,,and some addressed him in very kind .and irepres¬sive language.1‘ rvlassa,’ said he, ‘me not know what to say to1all dese goot friends r.ime tink,- this-look like little-;heaven upon edrth.’.It was my; stated custom, when I met to conversewith those friends, to begin with prayer and read¬ing a portion- of the Scriptures, •When this was ended, I told the .people present,that theProvidence qf God had brought this youngman for a time under my ministry} and that find¬ing him very setiously disposed, and believing him.to be very sincere hi his religious profession, I hadresolved on baptizing him, agreeably to his ownwishes. I added, that I had now brought him withme to join in Christian conversation with us.Addressing myself to the Negro, I said, ‘ Wil¬liam, tell me, who made you iGotvdhe goot Father.’* Who redeemed you ?’^ijesus, his dear Son, who died for me.’.. ‘ Who sanctified you ?’,• * The Holy Ghost, who teach me to know thegoot Father, and his dear Son Jesus ’:■ >< What was your state by nature ?’ ,t -‘ Me .wicked sinner, me know noting but sin,me do noting but sin, my soul more black tan mybody.’‘ Has any change taken place in you since then?’« Me hojieso, Massa,but me so trie time afraid no.’21‘ If you are changed, who changed you ?’c Got the goot Father, Jesus his dear Son, andGot the Holy^Spirit.’ •‘ How was any change brought about in you‘ Got make me a slave, when me was young,little boy.’‘ How, Willianv would you say, God madeyou a slave rV.. • ... >‘ No, Massa, no; me mean Got kl mei>e madeslave by whit^meuj'to do me gootd‘ How to do you gooc‘ He take me from the land of darkness, andbring me to the land of light-’‘ Wiiich do you call the land of lights ;tbe We: tIndia Islands ?’ '‘ No, Massk, they be rhe land of Providence,but America be the land of light to me% for thereme first hear‘goot minister preach.’- ‘ What does the blood of Christ do P 1* It cle.mse from all sin. And so mehppefrommy sin.’ \ . - . ; • .•■ ■1 Are then all men cleansed from sin by hisblood ?’ ' ! . ’‘ Oh no, Massa.*‘ Who are cleansed and saved-?’‘ Those that have faith in him-’‘ Can you prove that out of the Bible ?’‘ Yes, Sir, ‘ he that believeth on the Son hath-everlasting life; and hf that believeth not the Son,shall not see life, hut the wrath of God abidethon him.’ John. iii. 3G.‘ What is it to have, faith r*‘ Me suppose that it is to tink much about JesusChrist, to love him much, to believe’all he says tobe true, and to pray to him verv much.’‘ And have you such a faith as you describeT22« Oh! Massa,metink sometime me have no faitli<]« Why so, William ?’‘ When me want to tink about Jesus Christt;my mind run about after other things ; when m«(twrant to love him, my heart seem quite cold Jjwhen me want to pray, the devil put bat, verjii:bat thoughts into me, and me never tank Chrisiienough. Now all this make me sometime afraid!I have no faith.’I observed a very earnest glow of attention andlifellow-feeling in some countenances present as haispoke these words. I then said,‘ I think, William, I can prove that you have?.faith, notwithstanding your fears to the contraryJAnswer me a few more questions.’‘ Did you begin to think yourself a great sin¬ner, and to feel the want of a Saviour, of yourown self, and by your own thought and doing i’‘ Oh ! no, it came to me, when me tink notingabout it, and seek noting about it.’‘ Who sent the good minister in America toawaken your soul by his preaching .‘ Got, very certainly.’‘ Who then began the work of serious thoughtand feeling in your mind ?’‘ The goot Got: me could not do it of myself,me sure of that.’‘ Do you think that Jesus Christ and his salva¬tion is the one thing most* needful and most de-sh cable ?’‘ Oh! yes, me quite sure of that.’‘ Do you not believe that he is able to save your’‘ Yes, he is able to save to the uttermost.’• Do you think he is not willing to save you‘ Me dare not say that; He so goot, so merci¬ful, he will not cast out any that come to him.’23« Do you wish and desire and strive to keep hiscommandments ?’‘ Yes, Massa, because me love him, and thatir.tke me want to do as he say.’‘ Are you willing to suffer for his Sake, if Godshould call you to do so ?’‘ Me do tink me could die for the love of him:he not tink it too much to die for .wicked sinner ;why should wicked sinner link it much to die forso goot and righteous a Saviour ?’■* I think and hope I may say to you, William,thy faith hath made thee whole.’Thus ended my examination for the present.—The other friends who were in the houseiJistencdwith the mosfafFectionate anxiety to all that passed.One of them observed, with evident emotion,; ‘ I see, Sir, that though some men are white,and some are black, true Christianity'is all onecolour. My own heart has gone with this goodman every word he has spoken.’After some time passed in conversation on the•Negro’s history, I said, ‘ Let us now praise Godfor the rich and unspeakable gift of his grace, andsing the hymn of redeeming Icue. • 'Now begin the lovely theme,Sing aloud in Jesus’ name, &c.The Negro was not much used to our way ofsinging, yet joined with great earnestness and af¬fection, that showed how truly he felt what w^suttered. When the 5th verse was ended,Nothing brought him from above.Nothing but redeeming love ;he repeated the wordsj unconscious w'here he was,‘ No, noting but redeeming love bring himdown to poor William, noting but redeeming love.’1way of couclusioii:a 1 ISee, a stranger comes to view, v' < • ;i. ,, ■ .Tho’ fee’s black, he*8 comely too ;Comes to join the choirs above,Singinigaat redeeming love.Welcome, ;Negro, welcome Itere, .3 . i' .j .Baaidh.floubt; and banish fear,. Ii • ' viYou, who Chrut’a salvation proven• lKi, Praise ami-bless redeeming love. : • ’ * • |‘.siodw esiit- : -1» i ■ .liul :.>j„ 1 concluded, femh some reifctrks on the natunlot salvation fty grace, ami exhorted ail present tipress forward in die heavenly race. It was a*evening,, the ciDcumsrances of .which,, if they hajnever been recorded on earth, .Were .yetdoubtlesregistered in the ,book of renterhbrance above.in a £e vv days .the Negro was baptized ; amino.)long after he went oh a voyagd with, his mastersrm;Since tfeat tioiei have not-beeii;able to hear.airtidings of'him: whetlier he yet' wanders is a-piCigrim in this.Iotwer world,.kit whether he has joins cthe heavenly choir m the song of redeeknihg lovt^ in glory, I know nor..- This I do know, lie was jmonument to the Lord’.-j. ptraise. He bore the im.pression of the Saviour’s irnage on his heart,exhibited the; triads bf' couvertjng grace In ‘his hJf|'?nd' conversatibit, witli Singular simplicity add un|feigned 'sincerityJ