NEW AND IMPROVED SERIES.No. 28.LIFEOPNAPOLEON BONAPARTE;CONTAININGA CORRECT ACCOUNT OF HIS EARLY EDUCATION,HIS MILITARY CAREER,HIS OVERTHROW AT WATERLOO,HIS EIHE, AND DEATH.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.Price One Penny..LIFE OFNAPOLEON BONAPARTE.Napoleon Bonaparte was born at Ajaccio on theloth of August, 1768. In early youth, he was1 adroit, lively, and agile in the extreme, and had ac¬quired, it is said, a complete ascendancy over hiselder brother, Joseph, who was often beaten and ill-treated ; if complaints were carried to the mother,she usually advocated the part of Napoleon, andseldom allowed Joseph to speak in his own defence.The French government, regarding education asone of the most efficacious means of modifying thenational character, and attaching the rising generationto the interests of France, decided that a certain1 number of young Corsicans, belonging to families pos-= sessing the greatest influence, should be educated inl French seminaries; and Napoleon was, in consequence,s entered as king’s scholar in the military school of1 Brienne.On entering the school of Brienne, Napoleon had: attained his tenth year, at which tender period of life,i he displayed a very marked character. Unlike other1 hoys, the sports of infancy were uncongenial to his) opening mind ; he courted the shades of solitude, and; gloom was familiar to his soul. Impressed with sucha sentiments, his company was little sought by his fel-f low students, and when he did appear among them,! his presence threw a damp upon their occupations,s as he invariably addressed them in the language of4LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.admonition, rather than joining in the pastimes ofyouth.Such a singularity of temper was accompanied bymany traits of genius, when that particular sciencepresented itself which rivetted his whole attention;no sooner were the first principles of mathematicstaught Napoleon by his preceptor, Father Patrault,than he applied himself with such unremitting assi¬duity, that his progress kept pace with the eagerthirst he had evinced after knowledge. That branchwas immediately followed by fortification, and theother military sciences, to all of which the studentattached himself with undiminished ardour; whilehis hours of amusement were spent in perusing thehistories of ancient Rome and Greece, whose in¬structive pages constituted an inexhaustible source ofrecreation and delight.So great was Bonaparte’s ardour for improvement,that, even while at school, he never suffered a day topass, with satisfaction to himself, in which he did notfind his ideas extended and his knowledge increased. ■Thanking his mother, in one of his letters, for thegreat care she had manifested in forwarding his edu¬cation and future advancement, he made use of thefollowing emphatic words:—“ With my sicordby myaide, and Homer in my •pocket, I hope to carve myway through the world."When about seventeen years of age, Napoleon hada narrow escape for his life. While swimming in theSeine, the cramp seized him, and after several inef¬fectual struggles, he sank. At the moment in ques¬tion, he subsequently declared, that he had experi¬enced the sensations of dying, and lost all recollection.However, after sinking, the current forced him upona sandbank, where he lay senseless for some time, tillrestored to animation by the aid of his young com¬panions, who had witnessed the accident. In the |first instance, they had given him up for lost, notLIFE OF NAFOLEON BONAPARTF.5conceiving that the current would have conveyed himto such a distance.In 1783, Napoleon was one of the scholars who, atthe annual competition at Brienne, was appointed tobe sent to the military school at Paris, in order tofinish his education ; M. Keralio, the inspector atBrienne, being particularly attached to young Napo¬leon.In the year 1785, Bonaparte was admitted into theartillery; and proceeded from the military school atParis to the regiment de la Ferre in quality of secondlieutenant. Born amidst a republican contest in hisnative island, it became his destiny to burst into man¬hood at the moment when the country of his choicehad engaged in that struggle which opened a bound¬less field for the military adventurer; there beingmuch in his habits and manners applicable to thesituation allotted him.From the period when Bonaparte had the com¬mand of a battalion in Corsica, 1791, until the begin¬ning of 1793, with some short intermissions, he wasoccupied in pursuing his studies, in mathematics, andgoing through the ordinary routine of his profession.Upon joining his regiment at Valence, Napoleonwas introduced to Madame Colombier, a lady aboutfifty years of age, endowed with many estimablequalities, and one of the most distinguished person¬ages in the place, who entertained a great regard forthe young artillery officer By that lady, Bonapartewas introduced to the Abbe de St. Ruffe, a man ofconsiderable property, who associated with the mostdistinguished persons in the environs ; and the samefemale frequently prognosticated that Napoleon would; ise to eminence. Her death took place on the break¬ing out of the revolution, an event in which she hadtaken very great interest, nor did the emperor ever- speak of Madame Colombier, but with expressions of: the tenderest gratitude.6LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.On liis return to Corsica, after the memorable 10thof August, of the same year, Bonaparte at length foundan opportunity for the exercise of his military talents.France being proclaimed a Republic, was threatenedand attacked by all the powers of Europe. Morethan a million of Republicans flew to arms, and, in ashort time, the French forces appeared on the terri¬tories of those powers who had been expulsed fromthe soil of France. Belgium was conquered ; Savoyinvaded ; while a fleet had sailed from Toulon, underthe orders of Admiral Truguet Bonaparte was en¬trusted with that expedition, which seized upon theisland and fort St. Etienne, as well as the Isle de laMadeleine, belonging to the King of Sardinia. Hewas, however, soon compelled to evacuate thoseplaces, as the disasters sustained by the fleet hadaffected the success of the whole expedition.Nothing could be more deplorable than Bonaparte’sprospects at the period in question; and nothingmore uncertain than his future destiny. He, not¬withstanding, felt a persuasion that Fortune mightnot always abandon him; and was well aware a vastscene still lay open to his views. It was then he washeard to ejaculate—“ In a revolution, a soldier shouldnever despair, if he possesses courage and genius."Having re-entered the corps of artillery, Napoleonpassed as first lieutenant in the fourth regiment ofthat corps, and, a few months after, rose by right ofseniority, to the rank of captain, in the second com¬pany of the same corps, then in garrison at Nice.This occured in 1793, and subsequent to this periodhis name attracted general notice throughout France.The mercantile town of Toulon having been threat¬ened by the so-termed Jacobinical party, the citizensimplored the aid of the English and Spanish admirals—Lord Hood and Gravina, who were cruising offtheir port; and several battalions of marines were inconsequence sent for their protection. Toulon thusLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 7declared itself for the aueient colours of France, andbeing thus in possession of the above-named powers,the French assembled an army of thirty thousandmen, prepared for a siege.Bonaparte not only performed all that could be ex¬pected of him, but frequently rectified the errors ofothers, and displayed the superiority of his genius tomore than one officer officiating as his superior inrank. Preserving his dignity with the representativessent by the Convention to Toulon, as in regard toevery one else, he trusted such self-confidence wouldbe justified by ultimate success. One of the repre¬sentatives having made some observation upon theposition of a battery, “ Look to your own business,”said Bonaparte, “ and leave me to follow mine. Thebattery must remain where it is; I will answer forits effect with my head.”In the heat of the action, Bonaparte was at alltimes officer and soldier ; on the capture of a redoubt,fighting near Marshal Suchet, then only a captain,he undertook to load a gun, at which an artillery manhad just been killed, and making use of the ramrodwhilst it was warm, contracted a disease that returnedfor a length of time, under a variety of forms; thisfeat he often recollected, as having been one of thefirst of his military career. The general attack of thebesiegers was made upon Toulon, from the land side,on the ICth of December; when neither the severity ofthe season, nor the unceasing wetness of the weather,could damp the impetuosity of the French troops;those exhausted by fatigue being continually suppliedby fresli reinforcements, during this protracted as¬sault, which continued the major part of the siege.The principal redoubt, defended by two thousandmen, was carried on the 17th, though protected by a; double row of palisadoes, an intrenched camp, and across fire from three batteries. Bonaparte afterwardsestablished a battery upon the promontory of Aigui-8LIFE OF NAPOLEOS BONAPARTE.lette, which commanded the English fleet; and otherpositions, occupied by the English, upon the moun¬tains, were carried at the point of the bayonet. Ulti¬mately compelled to abandon the place, the Britishretired in the night, and on the 20th of December,the French re-entered Toulon, when they inflicteddreadful vengeance on the royalists left in the city.The rank of general of brigade was the reward con¬ferred upon Bonaparte, for his services at the siege ofToulon. In 1795, lie was appointed General-in-chiefof the army, and about the same time, his marriagewith Josephine took place.In February, 1796, the army in Italy might be con¬sidered as having no leader, and Napoleon was chosen,As the only man capable of extricating the army fromthe embarassing situation in which it was placed.Free from the restraint he bad so long felt in thecapital, Napoleon soon gave full scope to that geniuswhich required an ample theatre for action. Hisdeparture from Paris, to commence the celebratedItalian campaign of 1796, took place on the 21st ofMarch, when he was the only individual that did notfeel astonished at his good fortune. An intimatefriend, congratulating him upon that appointment,having testified some surprise at his youth, Bonapartedrily made answer, “ I shall return old.”At the period in question, the King of Sardinia,who, from the miljtary and geographical situtation ofbis dominions, was called the “ Porter of the Alps,”possessed strong fortresses at the opening of all thepassages leading into Piedmont. The French armyof Italy was then about thirty-one thousand strong,while nearly three times that number were opposedto them, having two hundred pieces of cannon. Thecharacter of the French troops was excellent, butthe cavalry wretchedly mounted, and very deficientin artillery. They possessed no means of transport¬ing military stores from the arsenals; all the draughtLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.9horses having perished through want. The povertyof the French finances was so great, that every effortresorted to by government was only capable of fur¬nishing two thousand louis in specie to the militarychest; while an order was issued for all the generalofficers to receive the wretched pittance of four louiseach, by way of outfit. The supply of bread wasuncertain, that of meat had long ceased ; as for thepurposes of conveyance, there remained only twohundred mules, and it was consequently impossibleto think of transporting more than twelve pieces ofcannon. Bonaparte, thus critically circumstanced,having put the army in motion, issued the followinglaconic address :—“ Soldiers ! you are naked and illfed; much is due, and there is nothing wherewith topay. The patience and courage you have displayedamidst these rocks are admirable ; but they acquireyou no glory. I come to conduct you to the most fer¬tile plains in the world: rich provinces, great cities,shall be in your power. There you will acquirewealth, honour, and glory. Soldiers of Italy ! canyour courage fail ?”—Such was the address dissem¬inated among the troops on the 29th of March;and, on the 8th of April, he was within a day’s marchof Turin, when, having subdued the Sardinian govern¬ment, he issued the following document:—7 . . -i ““ In fifteen days you have gained six victories,taken twenty-one stand of colours, fifty-five pieces ofcannon, and conquered the richest territory of Pied¬mont. Your services are equal to those of the armyof Holland and the Rhine. You were in want ofevery thing, and have provided every thing. Youhave gained battles without cannon; traversed riverswithout bridges; made forced marches without shoes;bivouacked without brandy, and often without bread.None but republican phalanxes could have thusacquitted themselves. For this you have the merited[(thanks of your country.”10 LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.After a brilliant series of triumphs, Bonaparte re¬turned to Paris on the 20th of November, 1797, wherehe was hailed with the most rapturous applause bythe people. The most magnificent preparations weremade for his reception; entertainments were every¬where given him; the sky resounded with the re¬iterated shout—“ Long live the general of the armyof Italy;” he obtained a seat in the Institute, and thetroops returning to France made him the subject oitheir songs. Still, however, he was dissatisfied withthe position he held. “ I see (said he) if I loiterhere, I am done for quickly. Here, every thinggrows flat; my glory is already on *be wane. Wemust to the East.”It has been asserted that in the early part of 1798,Bonaparte was commissioned “ to prepare operationsfor invading England.” With this object in view, hemade a most minute examination of the coast, andcontinued to question sailors, pilots, smugglers, andfishermen, till he found the hazard of such an enter¬prise was too great. An army, however, was raised,and, to cover any future design of Napoleon, it wascalled “ The army of England.”We now touch upon one of the most momentousperiods of Bonaparte’s astonishing career; we meanhis invasion of Egypt, which under every point ofview, may rank as a prodigy of human daring.On the 20th of May, 1798, General Bonaparte putto sea, from the harbour of Toulon, on board L’Orient,of 120 guns, bearing the flag of Admiral Bruyes,for the purpose of taking the command of a fleet,which was collecting from the different ports underthe dominion of the Republic of France. Thevoyage commenced with a propitious wind, andthe first operation was the taking of Malta. Duringthe continuance of the French fleet at Malta, it issaid that the intelligence first reached Bonapartethat Nelson, having penetrated his design, was inLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.11pursuit of him. During the night of the 22nd ofJune, (the French having departed from Malta on the19th), the English fleet passed within six leagues ofthe French fleet! What myriads of human beingswould have been preserved had Nelson that night es¬pied his enemy. The squadron, however, escaped,and on the 30th arrived safe before Alexandria. TheFrench immediately commenced an attack upon thetown, which capitulated, after a dreadful carnage.From Alexandria the army took the road to Cairo,and, on the morning of the 10th of July, came insight of the Pyramids. Napoleon having issued bisorders, placed himself in front of his army, and withextended arm, pointing to the Pyramids, exclaimedin the most vehement manner: “ Soldiers, think, thatfrom the summits of those monuments, forty ages areat this moment surveying our conduct!” The army,full of enthusiasm, cried out to be led to action;when, being speedily ranged in order of battle, a de¬cisive victory over the quadruple numbers of the ene¬my was the consequence. This brilliant victory wasfollowed by the surrender of Cairo, on the 22nd ofJuly.On the 1st of August, 1798, the battle of Aboukir,so fatal to the French navy, took place. On thatmomentous da}' for England, nine of the enemy’s shipswere captured, one frigate sunk ; while anothervessel and frigate were burnt by their respectivecrews. Two ships and two frigates were all thatescaped falling into the hands of the gallant Nelson.The effect produced by this maritime disaster, it isnot for us to conceive.On the 11th February, 1799, the army marchedfor Syria, and after traversing the desert, whichdivides Africa from Asia, took possession of the for¬tress of El Arish. Gaza next became conquered, andon the 28th the army encamped before Jaffa (theJoppa of the scriptures) where the enemy had con-12LIFE OF NAI’OLEON BONAPARTE.siderable forces. The walls were carried by storm,3,000 Turks died with arms in their hands, and thetown was given up during three hours to the fury ofthe French soldiery. It was here Napoleon ordered1,200 prisoners to be shot.The Pacha of Syria, Achmet-Dgezzar, having for¬tified St. Jean d’Acre with a determination to defendit to the last, Bonaparte pushed his troops forward,and on the 19th led his forces to an eminence whichcommanded Acre. This celebrated siege, which be¬gan on the 20th of March, 1799, was Napoleon’s firstencounter with an Englishman, and his first disgrace.The name of Sir Sydney Smith will be as immortalas that of the foe he vanquished, while the braveryof the English will be for ever exalted. The siegelasted sixty days, and, long before it was raised, theplague entered Bonaparte’s camp, and every day hislegions were thinned by the pestilence.The French army returned to Jaffa, May 24th, andBonaparte, finding that his hospitals were crowdedwith sick, sent for a physician, and entered into along conversation with him respecting the danger ofcontagion, concluding at last with the remark, thatsomething must be done to remedy the evil, and, thatthe destruction of the sick already in the hospital, teasthe only means ichich could be adopted ! The phy¬sician, alarmed at the proposal, remonstrated vehe¬mently against the atrocity of such a murder; butfinding that Bonaparte persevered and menaced, heindignantly left the tent.Bonaparte, however, was not to be diverted fromhis object by moral considerations; he persevered, andfound an apothecary, who consented to become hisagent, and to administer poison to the sick. Opiumat night was distributed in gratifying food ! Thewretched unsuspecting victims banqueted, and in afew hours, fire hundred and eighty soldiers, who hadLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 13suffered so much for their country,perished thus mis¬erably by the order of its idol! !On the 23d of August, 1799, Napoleon conferredthe command of the army on General Kleber, andreturned to Paris. During his absence in Egypt, itis well known how much France missed his militarygenius, and with what rapturous acclamations he washailed on his return.Many weighty motives existed for effecting achange at this critical period, which might haveoperated upon the mind of Bonaparte, or any otherchief who had the good of bis country at heart. Hefound its government enfeebled to the utmost impo¬tence of childhood, the prey of perpetual caprice andrevolutions. He found it without an army, andwithout the resources for procuring one. He foundall public spirit evaporated, and the people in astate of civil war with each other. But, what wasmost wounding to the becoming pride of a warrior,he found all the conquests he had gained in Europenearly wrested from his country, and subject to thesevere requisitions of those armies be had discomfited.Let us now mark the reverse: by a blow equallyillegal, but equally necessary, he boldly put himselfin possession of the supreme power, and in six monthshe new-modelled the constitution, revived the nationalcredit, re-animated the public spirit, and from everyquarter concentrated the abilities of every man oftalent and courage ; subdued every civil insurrection,and in six weeks, by gaining the battle of Marengo,re-conquered all that had been lost. Never was acampaign so well planned and so completely executed.The year 1800 tecminated triumphantly for theFrench arms in Italy. And having made peace withAustria, Napoleon was now at liberty to bend hisundivided attention towards England; for whatevermight be his hopes of effecting an important blowagainst this country, be knew the appearance might14 LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.assist him two ways: it would serve to keep thearmy employed, and furnish matter for the attentionof the Parisians, who would thus be withdrawn fromtoo close a consideration of his own newly-acquiredpower; and it would also compel us to be continuallyon the alert, gradually exhaust our resources, and pavethe way for a general pacification.The leading features of the policy of Bonaparte to¬wards England, at this crisis, appear to have been,to excite a confederacy against us among the mari¬time powers, and to exclude us from all the ports ofEurope; then to attack Portugal, our only remainingally, and if possible subdue her; and finally, by thecontinued threat of invasion, exhaust our patience andimpoverish our finances.The progress of the Northern Confederacy becameevery day more marked ; Russia, Sweden, Denmark,and Prussia, entered into it with avidity. Denmarkhad long been a pacific nation, never having beenengaged in war for upwards of eighty years; it might,therefore, have been presumed that she would reluc¬tantly enter the lists; yet it is remarkable that thatpower was the first, the last, and the only govern¬ment, that was engaged in actual hostilities.Thus situated, early in March a powerful fleetwas sent to the Baltic, under the command of SirHyde Parker and Vice-Admiral Lord Nelson, with aview of attacking the northern powers ere they couldeffect their meditated junction with the fleets ofFrance and Holland. The English passed the Soundon the 13th of March, and reconnoitred the Road ofCopenhagen, where the Crown-Prince, Regent ofDenmark, had made formidable preparations to re¬ceive them. It was on the 2nd of April, that Nelson,who had volunteered to lead the assault, having atlength obtained a favourable wind, advanced withtwelve ships of the line, besides frigates and fire-ships,upon the Danish armament, which consisted of sixLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.15sail of the line, eleven floating batteries, and an enor¬mous array of small craft, all chained to each otherand to the ground, and protected by the Crown bat¬teries, mounting eighty-eight guns, and the fortifica¬tions of the isle of Almack. The battle lasted forfour hours, and ended in a signal victory. Some fewschooners and bomb vessels fled early, and escaped :the whole Danish fleet, besides, were sunk, burnt, ortaken. The Prince Regent, to save the capital fromdestruction, was compelled to enter into a negotia-ation, which ended in the abandonment of the Frenchalliance by Denmark. Lord Nelson then reconnoi-tered Stockholm ; but, being unwilling to inflict un¬necessary sufl'ering, did not injure the city, on dis¬covering that the Swedish fleet had already put tosea.During the same month the British arms triumphedin Egypt, upon learning which, Bonaparte is saidto have exclaimed—“Well, there remains only thedescent on Britain;” and an immense flotilla of flat-bottomed boats were prepared in the harbour of Bou¬logne, while an army of 100,000 troops were assembledon the coasts of France. The attack which Nelsonmade is no doubt already known to the reader, thoughthat brave commander was unable to remove the flo¬tilla, from the fact that the boats were chained to theshore, defended by long poles headed by spikes ofiron projecting from their sides, and placed under landbatteries, and protection of musketry from theshore.The daring attempt, however, was sufficient to proveto the French that they could not leave their har¬bours with impunity. But Bonaparte was alarmedat the successes of the English, while everythingconcurred to render peace desirable. A pacific dis¬position was accordingly manifested, and flags oftruce, and flags of defiance, were actually displayedat the same time, and in the same strait ; so that16LIFK OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.while Boulogne and Dunkirk were bombarded andblockaded by hostile squadrons, the ports of Doverand Calais were frequently visited by the packetboats, and the messenirers of the courts of St. Jamesand the Tuileries. At length Lord Hawkesbury,the English Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs,after a long, but secret correspondence with M. Otto,announced on the first of October, the signature ofthe preliminaries of peace between England on theone part, and Spain, France, and Holland, on theother. This intelligence diffused universal satisfactionall over the kingdom. Amiens, the town assigned forthe discussion of the definitive treaty, had been theresidence for some months of the ministers of the re¬spective powers. The treaty was signed on the 17thof March.Great Britain was now at peace with all the powersof Europe, and the least sanguine minds confidentlypredicted a continuance of amity with France, andthe repose of the continent. Happy presages ! wouldthey had been fulfilled ! !On the 6th of May, 1802, the definitive treaty ofAmiens was presented to the French Tribunate, onwhich occasion Bonaparte was elected First Consulfor life.Unfortunately for the continuation of the promisedhappiness of this period, the war of words, whichfinally led to the rupture of the peace of Amiens, com¬menced soon after the treaty had been signed. Ilthe month of July, M. Otto, the French minister atLondon, transmitted a note to Lord Hawkesbury, de¬manding, in the name of his government, the punish¬ment of M. Peltier, for a gross libel which he had pub¬lished on the First Consul and the whole French na¬tion. To remove all groundsof complaint, an action wasbrought against Peltier who was found guilty; butthe breaking out cf war prevented his being broughtup for judgment. More important grounds of quarrelLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 17were soon found to widen the breach. The Frenchinsisted on the evacuation of Malta, Egypt, and theCape, to which Great Britain refused to accede. Anangry diplomatic correspondence ensued, and in aniuterveiw with the Britisli ambassador, Lord Whit¬worth, the wrath of Bonaparte broke out with greatviolence. In speaking of Egypt, he said, that if hehad felt the smallest inclination to take possession ofit by force, he might have done it a month ago, bysending 25,0()0 men to Aboukir. “ This he shouldnot do, whatever might be his desire to have it for acolony, because he did not think it worth the risk ofa war; sooner or later Egypt would belong toFrance.” “As a proof of his desire to maintain peace,he wished to know what he had to gain by going towar with England. A descent was the only meansof defence he had, and that he was determined toattempt, by putting himself at the head of the expe¬dition.”— lie acknowledged there were a hundredchances to one against him, but still he was deter¬mined to attempt it, if war should be the consequenceof the present discussion He then expatiated on thenatural force of the two countries, France with anarmy of 480,000 men—and England with a fleet thatmade her mistress of the seas, might, by a proper un¬derstanding, govern the world, but by their strife willoverturn it.Thus it appears that Malta was made the apple ofdiscord, and the fatal brand by which the flames ofwar, scarcely extinguished, were again lighted up.On the 10th of May, 1803,Lord Whitworth arrivedin London from Paris, and on the day preceding, hisBritannic Majesty’s declaration of war had beenissued. In the course of a few days after this declar¬ation had appeared, the First Consul gave orders forthe seizure of all British subjects in France, and inthose countries occupied by the French armies. Up¬wards of 11,000 persons were said to have been ar-18I.IFB OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.rested in France, in consequence of this unexpectedmeasure. These consisted of many of the nobility,commercial men, and travellers. The seizure of twoFrench merchant vessels in the bay of Audierne, bytwo English frigates, was stated as the immediatecause of this retaliating measure.But neither internal conspiracies nor external wars,appear to have diverted the mind of the First Consulin the least from prosecuting the schemes of his am¬bition, to secure himself the permanent exercise ofsovereign power. After the chief magistracy had beenconferred on him for ten years, he seemed to think thetitle of First Consul was too simple to convey an ade¬quate idea of the dignified elevation to which he hadbeen raised. Equally ambitious of undivided powerand titular-splendour-, heaspired to the Imperial purple.The measure of conferring on Bonaparte this rankand title, and making them hereditary in his family,according to the laws of primogeniture, was for thefirst time agitated in the Tribunate in the beginningof May, when the Tribunate proceeded to vote, “ThatNapoleon Bonaparte, the First Consul, be proclaimedEmperor of the French, and invested with the gov¬ernment of the French Republic. That the title ofEmperor, and the Imperial power, be made hereditaryin his family, in the male line, according to the orderof primogeniture: that in introducing into the or¬ganization of the constituted authorities, the modi¬fications rendered necessary by the establishment ofhereditary power, the equality, the liberty, and therights of the people, shall be preserved in all their in¬tegrity .” This decree was carried by acclamation, withthe single exception of the vote of one member, whospoke against its adoption. On the 2nd of Decem¬ber, the ceremony of the coronation was celebratedwith extraordinary pomp, in the cathedral of NotreDame.In May, 1805, the storm that had again been raisedLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 10against France, began to overspread the political hori¬zon. England persisted in her demands, and theEmperor was forced to accede to a precipitate open¬ing of the campaign. Having made the necessaryarrangements, he left Paris on the 24th of September,and arrived at Strasbourg on the 27th, where heawaited the arrival and concentration of the troopsthat were to form the grand army that he intendedto conduct into Germany.Our space will not allow us to enumerate or describethe battles of Napoleon. He bad long proposed tohimself the conquest of Europe—of the world ; andhis victories hitherto added intenseness to his purpose;but by the irretrievable disasters of the Russian cam¬paign, this was effectually placed beyond his grasp.The tide of conquest had ebbed, never to return.The spell which had bound the nations was dissolved.He was no longer the Invincible. The weight ofmilitary power, which had kept down the spirit ofnations, was removed, and their long-smothered senseof wrong and insult broke forth like the fires of avolcano. Bonaparte might still, perhaps, have securedthe throne of France; but that of Europe wasgone.After the battle of Paris, he was obliged to signthe unqualified resignation of the throne, but be re¬tained the title of Emperor, with Elba for his resi¬dence. He shortly after embarked for that island,and on his arrival there his mind was immediatelyapplied to completing the fortification of his capital,improving the public roads, and adding to the agricul¬tural resources of the island.When the Emperor received the visits of strangers,which often happened, he entered freely into conver¬sation. He frequently spoke of his last campaign,of his views and hopes, the defection of his marshals,the capture of Paris, and his abdication, with greatearnestness ; exhibiting, in rapid succession, traits of20LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.eloquence, of military genius, indignation, and nosmall share of self-estimation.The position of Napoleon at Elba, within a fewdays’ sail of France, was most favourable for intrigues,and a constant correspondence was maintained withIds relations and adherents, from many of whom hereceived visits; and a conspiracy was soon formed,having for its object bis return. The British Com¬missioner had no means of preventing an escape, eventhough he suspected it, and on the night of the 26thof February, 1815, Napoleom sailed for the Frenchcoast, and, on the 1st of March, disembarked in theGulf of St. Juan. The news of the Emperor’slanding did not reach Paris till the 5th of March, atnight. It transpired on the 6th, and on the 7th aroyal proclamation appeared in the Moniteur, convok¬ing the chambers immediately. A decree was alsoissued, placing Napoleon, and all who should join him,out of the protection of the law.At two o’clock on the 20th of March, Napoleon setout for Paris ; but retarded by the crowd, and thefelicitations of the troops and the generals who cameto meet him, he could not reach it till nine in theevening. As soon as he alighted, the people rushedon him : a thousand arms bore him up, and carriedhim along in triumph to the Tuileries.The Emperor, though greatly fatigued by nocturnalmarches, reviews, perpetual harrangues, and laboursin the closet, which had, for thirty-six hours, occu¬pied all his attention, determined, nevertheless, onreviewing the troops; after which he returned to hiscloset, and immediately applied himself to business.His situation rendered it essentially necessary for himto ascertain without delay the precise state of thecountry, the government of which he had thus unex¬pectedly resumed ; and so vast was the undertaking,that the faculties of any other man must have beenoverwhelmed.LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 21Everything was in motion throughout France, sothat it was augured, should the allies persist in thedesigns announced of making war on Napoleon, andviolate the frontiers of France, the fruits of such anattempt on the rights of the nation would stimulatethe population to make any sacrifice for the mainten¬ance of national independence and the honour of thethrone.Every day fresh offerings were deposited on thealtar of the country, and new corps of volunteers,equally numerous and formidable, were establishedunder the names of lancers, partizans, federates,mountain chasseurs, tiralleurs, &c. During the monthof May, Napoleon having lost all hope of preservingpeace, had been meditating upon a plan for the ensu¬ing campaign. Two projects principally engaged hisattention,—the first was to remain on the defensive,and by that means throw the odium of aggressionupon the allies,—the second was to attack the alliesbefore they could be in readiness to resist him Hefinally determined to interpose his forces in one massbetween the armies of W ellington and Blucher, fromwhich he anticipated great results, when opposedwith 120,000 excellent troops to two hosts numberingtogether only 190,000. Under Blucher were 110,000,nearly all Prussians. Wellington had 80,000. One-fourth of his army were raw Belgian and Hanoverianlevies, on which little reliance could be placed; butthe horse and foot guards, the German legion, andseveral of the most distinguished Peninsular regiments,were present. The allied generals remained inactive,and on the 15th of June, the French crossed thefrontier, and moved on Charleroi, which the Prussiansevacuated at their approach. Marshal Ney, with146,000, moved on to Quatre Bras, while Napoleonhimself, with 72,000, marched against the main Prus¬sian army at Ligny. Napoleon awaited some timethe approach of Ney, whom he had directed, afterL>2 LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.occupying Quatre Bras, to fall on the Prussians’rear ; but as he did not appear, the signal for attackwas given at 4 p.m. For five hours two hundredpieces of ordnance deluged the field with blood;during which period, the French and Prussians, alter¬nately vanquished and victors, disputed the groundhand to hand, and foot to foot, so that no less thanseven times in succession, Ligny was taken and lost.The Prussians were driven from Ligny with the lossof 15,000 men and 21 guns, besides 10,000 stragglers,while the loss of the French was scarcely 7,000.At Quatre Bras, an equally desperate conflict wasraging between Wellington and Ney. On learningthe defeat of the Px-ussians, however, the Duke fellback, on the morning of the 17th, through Gemappeto Waterloo. Napoleon meanwhile drew up his armyon both sides of the road, from Charleroi to Brussels.The field on which the immortal strife was to bedecided, extends about two miles from Hougoumont,on the right, to La Haye, on the left,—the great roadfrom Brussels to Charleroi, running through the cen¬tre of the position, which is about three quarters of amile south of the village of Waterloo, and three hun¬dred yards in front of the farm house of Mont St.Jean. The British army occupied the crest ot a rangeof eminences crossing the high road a.t right angles;while the French occupied a line of ridges on the op¬posite side of the valley.The night of the 17th was dreadful, and seemed topresage the calamities of the day, as the violent andincessant rains did not allow a moment’s rest to thearmy. In the morning, the British army was stillseen on its ground; and Napoleon who had fearedthey would retreat during the night, exclaimed withexultation—“At last I have them, those English!Between 10 and 11 o’clock, Napoleon commenced afurious attack upon the Bxntish post at Hougoumont;but this important position was maintained throughLIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE. 23the day with the utmost gallantry, notwithstandingthe repeated efforts of large bodies of the enemy to ob¬tain possession of it. The attack upon the right of theBritish centre was accomplished by a tremendouscannonade upon the whole line, from upwards of 200pieces of artillery ; and under cover of this fire,repeated attacks were made, first by infantry andcavalry together. The French continued to repeattheir furious attacks, until about 7 in the even-ing, when their cavalry and infantry, supportedby a tremendous fire of artillery, made a final anddesperate attempt to force the left centre of theBritish army at La Haye Sainte. After a severecontest, their efforts were frustrated, and the Dukeof Wellington now became the assailant. Havingobserved that their troops retired from their lastattack in great confusion, and that the Prussianswere advancing, his Grace determined to attack theenemy, and immediately advanced the whole line ofinfantry, supported by the cavalry and artillery. Theattack succeeded in every point; the enemy was forcedfrom his position on the heights, and fled in the ut¬most confusion, leaving behind him 150 pieces of can¬non with all their ammunition. Bonaparte, seeingthe British horse mingled with the fugitives, becameas pale as death, and exclaiming, “ All is lost at pre¬sent—let us save ourselves 1” galloped from the field.The Duke of Wellington continued the pursuit tilllong after dark, and ceased only on account of thefatigue of his troops who had been 12 hours engaged.Sixty pieces of cannon belonging to the Imperialguard, were the fruits of their vigorous pursuit, toge¬ther with Napoleon’s carriage, hat, sword, and papers.Thus terminated the battle of Waterloo, comparedwith which all former victories were unimportant.The Duke of Wellington and Prince Blucher marchedforward in regular communication with each other,and on the 7th of July, entered Paris in triumph.24LIFE OF NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.Napoleon meanwhile, after his abdication, spent sixmelancholy days at Mahnaison, and, on the 29th ofJune, set out for Rochefort, which he reached on 3dJuly, with several carriages laden with valuables. Heintended to have embarked for America, but the portwas so closely blockaded by an English squadron,that it was impossible for him to escape. After somehesitation, he resolved to throw himself on Britishgenerosity, and sent a letter to Captain Maitland ofthe Bellerophon, addressed to the Prince Regent,concluding with these words, “I put myself under theprotection of the British laws, and claim it from yourRoyal Highness as the most powerful, the most con- \stant, and the most generous of my enemies.’’Next day he went onboard the Bellerophon, whichimmediately sailed for England. It had already beendetermined that he should be removed to St. Helena,and, in spite of bis vehement remonstrances, he wastransferred to the Northumberland, which sailed forthat island, and arrived there on the 16th November.His captivity was not destined to be of long dura¬tion. The recollection of his lost greatness, aggra¬vated a hereditary tendency to cancer in the stomach,of which he died on 5th May, 1821. His body, afterlying in state, was interred 8th May, in the militarydress he usually wore when alive, in a spot pointed cutby himself, shaded by weeping willows, where a simplestone was placed over his remains.