1THREE FAVOURITESONGS#As I stood by yon Roofless Tower,John Barleycorn,Husband, husband, cease your strife.Nil WTONSTE WA U T:Printed for the Bookscllergj -BY J. M'NAIRN.rrurjovAi an *Ti !a VISION,«safioo>> «oy yfi '>nate IAs I stood by yon roofless tower,Where the wa’*flower scents the dewy air.;Where th’ howlet mourns in her ivy bower,And tells the midnight moon her care.'I'lie winds were laid, the air was still,The stars they shot alang the sky ;The fas: was howling on the hill,And the distant echoing glens reply.The stream adown its hazzely path,Was rushing by the ruin’d wa s ;Hasting to join the sweeping Nith,Whose distant roaring swells and fa’s.The eauld blue north was streaming forth.Her lights, wd’ hissing eerie din;Athort the lift thev start and shift.Like fortunes favours, tint as win.3-By heedless chance I turn’d mine eyes,And, by the moon-beam, shook, to see ;A stern and stalwart ghaist arise,.nodi bn iAttir'd as minstrels wont to be.H id I a statue been o’stane,His darin look had daunten meAnd on his bonnet grav’d was plain,The sacred posie—Liberty,d L\i d binod«./'mi■I bAnd frae his harpf sic strains did flow,Might rous’d the slumbering dead to hear ; ;But oh, it was a tale of woe,As ever met a Briton’s ear.ml iHe sang wi’joy his former day.viedTHe weeping wail’d his latter times.But what he said it was nae play,I winna ventur’t in my ryhmes.' ■ cS.n dl>)t v-mITJOHN BARLE\COri\T.There was three kings into the east,Three kings both great and high. ^'W oinli4Au’ tLey hae sworn a solemn oatb,John Barleycorn should die.! *. o (/1 iWNl' iniil b’lleino art to!They took a plough and plough’d him doryir,Put clods upon his head ;And they hae sworn a solemn oath.John Borleycorn was dead.HitsBut the cheerful spring came kindly on.And show’rs began to fall :John Barleycorn got up again,And sore surpris’d them all.The Sultry suns of summer came,And be grew thick and strong ;ilis head weel arm’d wi’ pointed spears,That no one should him wrong.si ga J9l nosiifoaTHi a 1d Hi’wT'm !!i «''   Ij’oiITThe sober autumn enter’d mild,f »i * :When he grew won and pale ;His bending joints and drooping heatf,Sbow’d he began to fail.Bis colour sicken’d more and more*He faded into age 55And then his enemies began,To shew their deadly rage.They’re ta*en a weapon long and sharpsAnd cut him by the knee 5Then ty’d him fast upon a cart,Like a rogue for forgerie,They laid him down upon his back,And cudgell’d him full sore ;They hung him up before the storm,And turn’d him o’er and o’er.They filled up a darksome pit,With water to the brim,They heaved in John Barleycorn,There let him sink or swim.They laid him out upon the floor,i o work him farther woe ,And still as signs of life appear'd,They toss’d him to and fro,./ fllil Ti,«l '/1IOLThey wasted o’er a scorching fiaint’,The marrow of his Lonee 1ai; .„roa a i:jow« sailBut a miller used liim worst ol'all.For he crush’d liim ’tween two stones.. , • i * | H-utioltl f iatAnd they hae ta’en his very heart’s bloodAnd drank it round and round ;And still the more and more they drank.Their joy did more abound.. ... ,j l oa(frt IB. •• i.A x. ‘.John Barleycorn was a hero hold,Of noble enterprise ;For if you do but taste his blood’Twill make your courage rise.' 0103 lo 8fIU3Twill make a man forget his woe.’Twill heighten all his joy ;Twill make the widow’s heart to -iitg,.Tho’ the tear were in her eye.Then let ns toast John Barleyeot u,Each man a glass in hand ;And may his great posterity.Ke’er fail in old Scotland.SONG.'Jluiband, husband, cease your stnC*,Nor longer idly rave, sir;T !io’ I am your wedded wife,Yet I am not your slave, sir.i l"One of two must still cbev,“ Nancy, Nancy;“Is it man or woman, say,“ Mv spouse Nancv.If 'tis still the lordly word,Service and obedience;I’ll desert my sovereign lord.And so, good b’ye allegiance./ Had KaradT >tf>giroqa ^I/I 5><c Sad will I be, so bereft,“ Nancy, Nancy;“ Yet I’ll try to make a shift,My spouse Nancy.My poor heart then break it must.My last hour I’m near it ;When you lay me in the dust,.Think, think how you will bear it.■“ I will hope and trust in heaven,Nancy, Nancy j<>' Strength to bear it will be given,“ My spouse Nancy,Well, sir, from the silent dead,Still I’ll try to daunt you ;Ever round your midnight bed,Horrid spirits shall haunt you,, irxiaft anoott* vl4 **« I'll wed another, like my dear,“Nancy, Nancy ;« Then all hell will fly for fear,« My spouse, Nancy.* d i)ao2 ,o«s uf.tsJi0T9d oa ,sd 1 lim beZ »vorm/f ,xonfiZ 1■ ,r.'.uz r 9-Jsta ol viJ !i’I tot- esnon-; v-, • /^.td i: nil !• id icoq vT4. jj ; :>s3 m l •tuoiltMib' odt ni ocn val bo~{ nootiv’ /.'■ / "fi; j.-nv 7';.. id* . ,