THBHISTORYJACKANDTHE BEAN»STAEK.Cili A S e* O W:PUBLISHED bv FRANCIS ORR & SONS.   - . '-T-XHE BE i X-zLYT K*W.li^ * . ItJACKANDTHE BEAN-STALK.In days of yore, there lived a widow who had ason, named Jack. Being an only child, he wastoo much indulged, and became so extravagantand careless, that he wasted the property whichhis mother possessed, until at last there remainedonly a cow, the chief support of her and her son.One day the poor woman, with tears in hereyes, said to Jack, “ O, you wicked child, by yourungrateful course of life, you have brought me tobeggary in my old age: Cruel boy ! 1 have notmoney to buy even a bit of bread, and we mustnow sell the cow. I am grieved to part with her,but I cannot see you starve.”Jack felt some remorse, but having less affec¬tion for the cow than his mother had, he droveher to the nearest market town, where he met abutcher, who made a very curious offer for her.“ Your cow,” said he, “ you young prodigal dcig!is worth nothing; you have starved her until shewould disgrace the shambles; and, as to milk, nowonder that you and your mother have beenstarving while you were depending upon thatsupply. One i/t turn deserves another, and re.t) JACK AND THE BEAN-STALK.ceives it just as surely as one good turn deservesanother. But you shall not take back the cowto perish with hunger. 1 have got some beans inmy pocket; they are the oddest I ever saw notone of them being, either in colour or shape, likeanother; if you will take them in exchange torthe cow, you may have them.”The silly boy could not conceal the pleasurehe felt at the offer. The bargain was struck, andthe cow exchanged for a few paltry beans. Jackmade the best of his way home, calling to hismother, before he reached the house, thinking tosurprise her. When she saw the beans, and heardJack’s story, her patience quite forsook her; shekicked the beans away in a passion ; they Hewin all directions,—some were scattered iagarden. Not having anything to eat, they bothwent supperless to bed. .Jack awoke early in the morning, and seeingsomething uncommon in the garden, soon disco¬vered that some of the beans had taken root, andsprung up surprisingly ; the stalks were of greatthickness, and had so entwined, that they formeda ladder, nearly like a chain in appearanceLooking upwards he could not discern thetop • it appeared to be lost in the clouds. Hetried the bean stalks, found them hrm andnot to be shaken. He quickly formed theresolution of climbing to the top, to seek his for¬tune, and ran to communicate his intention to hismother, not doubting but she would be equalljpleased with himself. She declared ho shouldZ g0 ; said it would break her heart ifJACK. AND THE BEAN-STAIiK. 9he did —emreated and threatened, but all invainJack set out, and al ter climbing tor some hours,reached the top of the bean stalk quite fatigued.Looking around, he found himself in a strangecountry. It appeared to be a desert, quite banen;not a tree, shrub, house, or living creature to boseen.Jack seated himself upon a stone, and thoughtof his mother: he rehected with sorrow on hisdisobedience in climbing the bean-stalk against herwill, and concluded that he must die of hunger.However, he walked on, hoping to see a house,where he might beg something to eat and drink.Presently a handsome young woman appeared ata distance. As she approached, Jack could nothelp admiring how beautiful she looked : she wasdressed in the most elegant manner, and had awhite wand in her hand, on the top of which wasa peacock of puro gold. While Jack was look¬ing with the greatest surprise at this charmingfemale, with a smile of the most bewitchingsweetness,she inquired how he came there ? Jacktold how he had climbed up the bean stalk. Shoasked him if he recollected his father? He an¬swered that he did not; and added, that ho hadinquired of his mother, who or where his fatherwas, but that she avoided answering him, andeven seemed afraid of speaking, as if there wassome secret connected with his father’s history.The lady replied, “ i will reveal the wholestory ; your mother must not. But, before I be¬gin, 1 require a solemn promise, on your part, to/10JACK. AND THE BBAV-gTALK,"'T»do what I command. 1 am a fairy, and if yoado not perform exactly what I desire, you will bodestroyed.” Jack promised to obey her injunc¬tions, and the fairy thus addressed him : —“ Your father was a rich and benevolent man ;ho was good to the poor, and constantly re¬lieving them ; he never let a day pass withoutdoing good to some person. On one particularday in the week he kept open house, and invitedthose who were reduced and had lived well. Healways sat at the table with them himself, and didall he could to render his guests comfortable.The servants were all happy, and greatly attach¬ed to their master and mistress. Such a man wassoon known and talked of. A giant lived a greatmany miles otf, who was altogether as wicked asyour father was good : he was envious, covetous,and cruel, but had the art of concealing thosevices.“ Hearing your father spoken of, he formedthe design of becoming acquainted with him,hoping to ingratiate himself into your lather’sfavour. He removed quickly into your neigh¬bourhood, caused it to be reported that he hadlost all he possessed by an earthquake, and foundIt difficult to escape with his life; his wife waswith him. Your father believed his story, andpitied him ; he gave him apartments in his ownhouse, and caused him and his wife to be treatedhospitably, little imagining that the giant wasmeditating a horrid return for all his favours.“ Things went on in this way for some time;the giant becoming daily more impatient te putJACK AND THE BE '.N'-BTAXjK. 11hi* plan into execution. At last an opportunitypresented itself. Your father s house was at somedistance from the sea-shore, but the giant, stand¬ing on a hill one stormy day, observed some shipsin distress off the rocks; he hastened to yourfather, and requested that he would send all thepeople he could spare to relieve the mariners.“ VVhile the servants were all employed uponthis service, the giant despatched your father, bystabbing him with a dagger. You were thenonly three months old, and your mother, upondiscovering what had happened, fainted, but stillclasping you in her arras. The giant, who in¬tended to murder both of you, having found herin that state, for a short time repented of thedreadful crime he had committed, and grantedyour mother and you your lives, but only uponcondition that she should never inform you whoyour father was, nor answer any questions con¬cerning him ; assuring her, that, if she did, hewould certainly put both of you to death in themost cruel manner. Your mother took you inher arms, and fled as quickly as possible. Havinggained your father’s confidence, he knew whereto find all his treasure. He and his wife sooncarried off two large chests, filled with gold, which,they could not have done unless they had beengiants, and, having set the house on fire in severalplaces, when the servants returned, it was burnedquite down to the ground.“ Your poor mother wandered with you a greatmany miles from this scene of desolation ; fearadded to her haste: she settled in the cotlrwe012JACK AND THE BEAN-STALK.where you were brought up, and it was entirelyowing to her fear of the giant that she never men¬tioned your father to you.“ 1 became your father’s guardian at his birth;but fairies have laws to which they are subjectas well as mortals. A short time before the giantwent to your father’s, I transgressed ; my punish¬ment was a suspension of power for a limitedtime—an unfortunate circumstance, as it totallyprevented my succouring your father.“ The day on which you met the butcher, asyou went to sell your mother’s cow, my powerwas restored ; and, as I had been told by Oberon,the King of the Fairies, how dreadful were theconsequences to your father of my single error, lresolved to take you under my protection, and tobe more circumspect in future. It was I whosecretly prompted you to take the beans in ex¬change for the cow.“ By my power the bean-stalk grew to so greata height, and formed a ladder. 1 need not add,that 1 inspired you with a strong desire to ascendthe ladder.“ The giant now lives in this country ; you arethe person appointed to punish him for all hiswickedness. You will have dangers and difficul¬ties to encounter, but you must persevere inavenging the death of your father, or you willnot prosper in any of your unde takings, but bealways miserable.“ As to the giant’s possessions, you may seize onall you can, for everything he has belongs eitherto you or to me; lor you must know, that, notJACK AND THE BEAN-STALK.15satisfied with the gold he carried off from yourfather, he Woke into my house, and stole the twogreatest curiosities ever possessed even by a fairy,and would have killed me as he did your father,if it could have been possible to kill a fairy. Onething I desire,—do not let your mother know youare acquainted with your father’s history till yousee me again.“ Go along the direct road; you will soon seethe house where your cruel enemy lives. Whileyou do as I order you, I will protect and guardyou : but, remember, if you disobey my commandsa most dreadful punishment awaits you.”When the fairy had concluded, she disappear¬ed, leaving Jack to pursue his journey. Hewalked on till after sunset, when,to his greatjoy,he espied a large mansion. A plain looking wo¬man was at the door; he accosted her beggingshe would give him a morsel of bread and a night’slodging. She expressed the greatest surprise atseeing him ; and said it was quite uncommon tosee a human being near their house, for it waswell known that her husband was a large andpowerful giant, and that he would never eat any¬thing but human flesh, if he possibly could get it;that he did not think any thing of walking fiftymiles to procure it.This account greatly terrified Jack, but hestill hoped to elude the giant, and therefore heagain entreated the woman to take him in forone night only, and hide him where she thoughtproper. The woman at last suffered herself tobe persuaded, for although she had assisted in16 JACK AND THK BKAS-STAf-K.the murder ot Jack's father, and in stealing thegold, she was ot a compassionate and generousdisposition, and took him into the house.First, they entered a line large hall, magnificentlyfurnished; they then passed through several spa¬cious rooms, all in the same style of grandeur.A long gallery was next; it was very dark,just light enough to show that, instead ot a wallon one side, there was a grating ot iron, whichparted oft’ a dismal dungeon, whence issued thegroans of those poor victims whom the cruelgiant reserved in confinement for his own voraci¬ous appetite.Poor Jack was half dead with fear, and wouldhave given the world to have been with hismother again, for he now began to fear that heshould never see her more, and gave himself upfor lost; he even mistrusted the giant’s wife, andthought she had let him into the house for noother purpose than to lock him up among the un¬fortunate people in the dungeon.At the farther end of the gallery there was aspacious kitchen, and a fire was burning in thegrate. The good woman bade Jack sit down,and gave him plenty to eat and drink. Jack,not seeing any thing here to make him uncom¬fortable, “soon forgot his fear, and was beginningto enjoy himself, when he was aroused by a loudknocking at the door, which made the wholehouse shake ; the giant’s wile ran to secure himin the oven, and then went to let her husband in.Jack heard him accost her in a voice like thun¬der, saying i; W ife, 1 smell fresh meat* Oh .JACK AND THE BEAN-STAJLE. Umy deac,” replica she, “ it :s only the people inthe dungeon.” The giant appeared to believeher, and walked into the kitchen, where poorJack lay concealed, shaking with hear, and tremb¬ling in every limb.At last, the monster seated himself by the fire¬side, whilst his wife prepared supper. By de¬grees Jack took courage to look at the giantthrough a small crevice : he was quite astonishedto see what an amazing quantity he devoured, andthought he never would have done eating anddrinking. When supper was ended, the giantdesired his wife to bring him his hen, which wasone of the curiosities he had stolen from the fairy.A very beautiful hen was brought, and placedon the table before him. Jack’s curiosity wasvery great to see what would happen:—heobserved that every time the giant said, “ Lay !”the hen laid an egg of solid gold.The giant amused himself a long time with hishen, meanwhile his wife went to bed. At lengththe giant fell asleep by the fireside, and snoredlike the roaringof a cannon. At daybreak, Jack,finding the giant still asleep, crept softly out ofhis hiding-place, seized the hen, and ran off withher.He easily found the way to the bean-stalk, anddescended it more quickly than he expected. Hismother was overjoyed to see him ; for she con*eluded he had come to some shocking end.Jack was impatient to show his hen, and iu-from his mother how valuable it was.■El?..Is JACK and thk bean-stalk.And now, mother,” said Jack, “ 1 havabrought home that which will quickly make usrich ; and I hope to make you some amends forthe affliction 1 have caused you through my idle¬ness and extravagance.”The hen produced as many golden eggs as theydesired : and so they became possessed of immenseriches.For some months Jack and his mother livedvery happily together; but he, recollecting thefairy's commands, and fearing that, if he delayedto avenge his father’s death, she would put herthreats into execution, longed to climb the bean¬stalk again and pay the giant another visit. Jackwas, however, afraid to mention it to his mother,being well assured that she would endeavour toprevent his going. However, one day he toldher boldly that he must take a journey up thebean-stalk. She begged and prayed him not tothink of it; she told him that the giant’s wifewould certainly know him again, and that thegiant would desire nothing better than to get himinto his power, that he might put him to a crueldeath, in order to be revenged for the loss of hishen.Jack resolved to go at all events; for, being avery clever fellow, although a very idle one, hehad no great dread of the giant, concluding, thatalthough he was a cannibal, he must be a verystupid fellow not to have regained his hen, it be¬ing just as easy to come down the stupendousbean-stalk as to ascend it. Jack, therefore, hada dress made, not exactly invisible, like that ofJACK AND THE BEAN-STALK. 19bw illustrious namesake, the Giant-killer, but on*which so disguised him, that even** The mother that him bore.Would not have known her child."In a few mornings after this, he rose very early,changed his complexion, and unperceived by anyone, climbed the bean-stalk a second time Hewas greatly fatigued when he reached the top,and very hungry, for, with his usual thoughtless¬ness, he forgot to take a piece of bread in hispocket.Here we are inclined to remark, that as ho hadneither bread nor bacon, he must in his progresshave met with a good supply of beans. Hut per¬haps he never thought of this resource.Having rested some time, he pursued his jour¬ney to the giant’s mansion. He reached it latein the evening; the woman was at the door as be¬fore. Jack addressed her, telling her a pitifultale, and requesting that she would give him somevictuals and drink, and also a night’s lodging.She told him (what he know before vary well)about her husband’s being a powerful and cruelgiant; and also that she one night admitted apoor, hungry, friendless boy, who was half deadwith travel lino-- that the ittle ungrateful fellowhad stolen one of the giant’s treasures; and eversince that her husband had used her very cruelly,and continually upbraided her with being thecause of his loss. But at last she consented, andtook him into the kitchen, where, after he haddone eating and drinking, she hid him in an oldlumber closet. The giant returned at the usualtime, a':d walked in so heavily, that the hou**10JACK AND TBI kKAN-*TALK.was shaken to the foundation. He seated himselfby the fire, and soon after exclaimed, “ Wife, Ismell fresh meat.” The wife replied, “ It wasthe crows, which had brought a piece of raw meat,and left it on the top of the house.” The giantwas very ill-tempered and impatient, continuallycrying for his supper, like little Tom Tucker, andcomplaining of the loss of his wonderful hen,which we verilyr believe he would have eaten, dis¬regarding the treasures which she produced. Jacktherefore rejoiced that he had not only got pos¬session of the hen, but had in all probability savedher precious life.The giant’s wife at last set supper on the table,and when he had eaten till he was satisfied, hesaid to her—“I must have something to amuseme—either my bags of money or my harp.”Jack, as before, peeped out of his hiding-place,and presently his wife brought two bags into theroom, one filled with gold, and the other withsilver.They were both placed before the giant, whobegan reprimanding his wife for staying so long.She replied, trembling with fear, that the bagswere so heavyr, that she could scarcely^ lift them—and adding, that she had nearly fainted, owingto their weight.The giant took his bags, and began to counttheir contents. First the bag which contained thesilver was emptied, and the contents placed on thetable. Jack viewed the glittering heaps withdelight, and most heartily wished the contents inhis own possession. The giant (little thinking hewas so narrowly watched) reckoned the silverJACK AND THE BEAN-STALK. SI(over several times: and having satisfied himselfthat all was safe, put it into the bag again, whichthe made very secure.The other bag was opened next, and the goldpieces placed on the table. If Jack was pleasedat the sight of the silver, how much more delight¬ed must he have felt when he saw such a heap ofglittering gold ?When the giant had counted over the gold tillhe was tired, he put it up, if possible, more securethan he had put up the silver before; he then fellback on the chair by the fireside, and fell asleep.Ho snored so loud, that Jack compared the noiseto the roaring of the sea in a high wind when thetide is coming in. At last, Jack being certainthat he was asleep, stole out of his hiding-place,and approached the giant, in order to carry olF thetwo bags of money; but, just as he laid his handupon one of the bags, a little dog, which he hadnot perceived before,started from under the giant’schair, and barked at Jack most furiously, whonow gave himself up for lost. But Jack, recol¬lecting that the giant had left the bones which hohad picked at supper, threw one to the dog, whoinstantly seized it, and took it into the lumber closetwhich Jack had just left.Finding himself delivered from a noisy anatroublesome enemy, and seeing the giant did noawake, Jack seized the bags, and throwing themover his shoulders, ran out of the kitchen. Hereached the door in safety, and found it quitedaylight.ti JACK AND THK BEAN-STALK.Jack was overjoyed when he found himselfnear the bean-stalk; although much incommod dwith the weight of the money bags, he soon readi¬ed tlie bottom, and immediately ran to seek hismother. He was greatly shocked on finding herapparently dying, and could scarcely bear his ownreflections, knowing himself to be the cause. Otbeing informed of Jack’s safe return, his mothergradually recovered. Jack presented her his twovaluable bags; and they lived as happily andcomfortably as ever.For three years, notwithstanding the comfortsJack enjoyed, his mind dwelt continually uponthe bean-stalk ; for the fairy’s menaces were everpresent to his mind, and prevented him from be-ing happy. It was in vain he endeavoured toamuse himself; he became thoughtful, and wouldrise at the dawn of day, and view the bean-stalkfor hours together.His inclination at length growing too powerfulfor him, he began to make secret preparations forhis journey, and, on the longest day, arose as soonas it was light, ascended the bean-stalk, and reach¬ed the top. He arrived at the giant’s mansion inthe evening, and found his wife standing, asusual,at the door. Jack had disguised himself so com¬pletely, that she did not appear to have the leastrecollection of him; however, when he pleadedhunger and poverty in order to gain admittance,he found it very dillicult indeed to persuade her.At last he prevailed, and was concealed in theoven.JACK JFN'D THX BEAN-STALK. 25When the ^iant returned, he said, as upon th«i former occasions, “ I smell fresh meat!” But. Jack felt quite composed, as he had said so before,and had been soon satisfied; however, the giantstarted up suddenly, and notwithstanding all hiswife could say, he searched all around the room.Jack was ready to die with fear, wishing himselfathome; the giant approached the oven, and puthis band into it, Jack tliought his death was certain.The giant at last gave up the search, and ate ahearty supper. When he had finished, he com¬manded his wife to fetch down his harp. Jackpeeped as he had done before, and saw themost beautiful harp that could be imagined ; it wasplaced by the giant on the table, who said,“ Play !’’ and it instantly played of its own accord,without being touched. The music was veryfine: Jack was delighted, and felt more anxiousto get the harp into his possession than either ofthe former treasures. •The music soon lulled the giant into a soundsleep. This, therefore, was the time to carry offthe harp. As the giant appeared to be in a moreprofound sleep than usual, Jack soon determined,got out of the oven, and seized the harp. Theharp had also been stolen hy the giant from thefairyThe giant suddenly awoke, and tried to pursuehim ; but he had drank so much that he couldhardly stand. Jack ran as fast as he could; in alittle time the giant recovered sufficiently to walkslowly, or rather to reel after him. Had he beensober, he must have overtaken Jack instantly;but, m he then was, Jack contrived to be first aJMICUAIL acOTT.tha top of the bean-stalk. The giant called afterhim in a voice like thunder, and sometimes wasvery near him.The moment Jack got down the bean-stalk, heran for a hatchet. Just at that instant the giantwas beginning to descend, but Jack with hishatchet cut the bean stalk close off at the root,which made the giant fall headlong into thegarden, and the fall killed him.At this instant the fairy appeared : she chargedJack to be dutiful to his mother, and to follow hisfather’s good example, which was the only wayto be happy. She then disappeared, after re¬covering her hen and her harp, which Jack gaveto her most thankfully, having acquired greatriches,and revenged the tragical death of his father.MICHAEL SCOTT.Few names in Scottish annals are surroundedwith so deep an air of mystery and romance asthat of the Wizard Michael Scott.Michael Scolt, or, as he is sometimes denomi¬nated, Michael Mathematicus, was born in Scot¬land some time previous to the year 1214, aboutthe commencement of the reign of Alexander II.According to the tradition of the neighbourhood,which is confirmed by an ancient printed copy ofnis work on Physiognomy, the place of his birthwas Balwerie, the ancient seat of his family, inthe county of Fife. From his earliest youth heis said to have devoted himself to the cultivationof the sciences. In his native country, however.MluUAi»L aoUXX.*1"he could receive nothing but the bare rudimentsof education, as Scotland did not possess at this:>period any public seminaries for the education ofyouth. The casual lessons of some learnedmonk, and perhaps an introduction to the limitedmf his convent, composed all the advantages whichthe future astronomer and physician could enjoyat home; and for higher and more regular instruc¬tion, it was necessary to seek the universities ofthe sister country, and the schools of France andItaly.To the famous university of Oxford MichaelScott repaired, and devoted himself with deep ap¬plication to philosophical pursuits. It is true,indeed, that in this dark period of the middle age*,scarcely any studies deserving the name of realphilosophy were cultivated either at Oxford orelsewhere; yet, in the midst of the errors of thescholastic philosophy, and the puerilities whichinfected the science of ethics and physics, as wellas other branches of studious enquiry, some realknowledge was to be found, and the love of truth,and the spirit of investigation, although misdirect¬ed, were not extinguished. The study of practicalastronomy in those periods, even when confound¬ed with the doctrines, and made subservient tothe purposes of judicial astrology, conducted theadept to an examination of the changes in thepositions and conjui-ctions of the heavenly bodies,to a use of the rude astronomical instruments oithe times, and to an ardent cultivation of thesisterscience of geometry.After having completed his studies at Oxford,he repaired, according to the custom of that aga.^8MICHAEL SCOTT.to the University of Paris, where it seems pro¬bable that he was a fellow-student with RogerBacon ; and here, such was the enthusiasm withwhich he devoted himself to the science of mathe¬matics, that he became known hy the academicsurname of Michael the Mathematician. He ap¬plied himself, also, to the study of sacred lettersai.d of divinity ; and after having gained in thesefaculties a high reputation, he received the degreeof doctor in theology.After having acquired at Paris much learnedreputation, he visited the far famed College ofPadua, where he began to publish to the worldpredictions of future events, which were remem¬bered in later times with awe and reverence inItaly. From Italy he made his way into Spain,then partly in the possession of the Arabians, andunquestionably the most enlightened portion ofEurope. Here, that he might perfect himself inthe knowledge of the language, and become ac¬quainted with the philosophy of this remarkablepeople, he repaired to Toledo, of which the Uni¬versity was then highly celebrated, especially forthe cultivation of the occult sciences. Here it issupposed he had an interview wdth the famousAverroe, the father of the sect of the Averrorists,who was an inhabitant of Cordova, which/ in thefame of its philosophers, historians, and poets, hadbeen long the first city in Spain. The emperorFrederic 11. was then a great patron of scienceand philosophy, and universally regarded as themost learned prince in Europe. He heard ofMichael Scott’s fame and great talents, and weneed pot wonder that we soon find him at theMtCfcAEk SCOTT.31imperial court, promoted to the office of Aslro-oger to Frederic, and holding the first placeamong the scholars who were retained at hisCourt. Here Michael spent some years in tran¬slations of philosophic and literary works on allkinds of subjects, particularly his favourite one ofAstrology. We give a specimen or two of hislabours while here :—According to Michael’s de¬finition, physiognomy is to be considered as aiscience of a very high character, embracing within(its range some of the noblest subjects upon whichithe human intellect can be employed, “ It is theidoctrine of safety,” says he, “ the election of good,the avoidance of evil. It is the comprehension ofvirtue, the detestation and pretermission of vice.The knowledge of this science is induced andicreated by the true love of God, and the fear ofthe devil; by the principle of faith, and the hopeof the imperishable reward of eternal life.”—“ ThePhilosopher’s Banquet, furnished with a few dishesfor health, but large discourse for pleasure.” Itis a very whimsical performance. “ The use ofthis book,” says the English translator, “ is tomake a man able to judge of his disposition, andof the state of his body, as well as of the effects,natures, and dispositions of those things wherewithwe daily feed our bodies. The next is to give usa general insight and brief notice of histories, andmen of greatest fame and note ; and the next is,that here we may recreate, and make merry our¬selves at our tables,” &c. And many otherswhich it is needless to enumerate.Frederic II, however, whose time was nowengrossed by schemes of ambition, and hit exebe-32Michael scott.• jutr drained by continual and expensive wars,could probably afford to give little else than emptypraise to his philosophic instructor: and althoughMichael, in the spirit of the age, had become anexperienced alchymist, this delusive science mintrather have impoverished than enriched him. Itis likely that these reasons induced him to bidfarewell to tiie court of Frederic, and to devotehimself seriously to the study of medicine as aprofession, in which art he soon arrived at a highreputation, and possessed, if we may believe anintelligent, though anonymous author, the mostextraordinary and even miraculous skill.After a residence of many years in Germany,Michael passed over into England on his returnto his native country. The English throne wasthen filled by Edward I., who had always a strongdisposition to believe in alchymy and the occultsciences, received him with kindness, retained himfor some time at his court, and afterwards per¬mitted him to pass into his native country.After his long absence, he arrived in Scotlandat that critical conjuncture, when the nation wasplunged into grief by the death of Alexander III. ;and it became necessary to send ambassadors tobring over from Norway the young QueenMargaret, grand-daughter to the deceased monarch.It appears from unquestionable evidence that SirMichael Scott of Balwearie, and Sir DavidWemyss, were, by the Regents of the kingdom,directed to proceed to Norway upon this importantservice. The mission itself was melancholy andunfortunate. The youthful heiress of the Scot¬tish throne, known in history by the name of thesMICftAEL SCOTt. S9Maideri of Norway, sickened on tier passage toScotland, and died in Orkney.Sir Walter Scott says, in his Notes on the Layof the Last Minstrel, “ the memory of Sir MichaelScott survives in manv a ley-end, and in the southof Scotland any work ofgreat labour and antiquityis ascribed either to the agency of Auld Michael,of Sir William Wallace, or of the devil.” Someof the most current of these traditions are so hap¬pily described by the above mentioned writer, thatwe cannot refrain from quoting one passage.“ Michael was chosen,” it is said, “ to go upon anembassy to obtain from the King of France satis¬faction for certain piracies committed by hissubjects upon those of Scotland, instead of pre¬paring a new equipage and splendid retinue, theambassador retreated to his study, and evoked afiend, in the shape of a huge black horse, mountedupon his back, and forced him to fly through theair towards France. As they crossed the sea, thedevil insidiously asked his rider what it was thatthe old women of Scotland muttered at bedtime.Wheti he arrived at Paris, he tied his horse tothe gate of the palace, entered, and boldly deliver¬ed his message. An ambassador with so little ofthe pomp and circumstance of diplomacy, wasnot received with much respect, and the king wasabout to return a contemptuous refusal to his de¬mand, when Michael besought him to suspend hisresolution till he had seen his horse stamp threetimes. The first stamp shook every steeple inParis, and caused all the bells to ring, the secondthrew down throe towers of the palace, and thehifTrial -teed hud lifted hi- foot to give the thirdMICHAEL SCOT?>stanj|j, when tlie king rather cho*« to diimts*Michael with the most ample concessions, than tostand the probable consequences.”It is time, however, to return from these tradi¬tions, with which the common people of Scotlandhave uniformly connected his name, to the truecharacter of Michael Scott. In our endeavoursto estimate the talents of a sage of the thirteenthcentury, we must beware of looking at his attain¬ments through the medium of ourown times. Hemust be compared with men of his own age; hispowers must be determined by the state of sciencein the countries where he lived, and wrote, andbecame celebrated. Appealing to such a criterion,the Scottish Wizard is entitled to no ordinaryrank amongst those who were then esteemed thephilosophers and scholars of Europe. Fortunate,too, he was in this circumstance, that, after hisvarious travel and long residence abroad, ho re¬turned to enjoy in his native country the reputa¬tion which he had acquired; that he lived to agreat age, and died full of years and of honour,before he had witnessed the dark and complicatedcalamities which were so soon to overwhelm thekingdom.— His books, we arc informed by Demp¬ster, after his death, were carefully concealedfrom the public view; and he adds, that the com¬mon people of Scotland, even in his time, believedihat these forbidden volumes, containing the spellsof the magician, were protected by the invisibledemons who had once been the servant* of theirIllustrious and potent master.