5RIDDLES, ENIGMAS, CONUNDRUMSQUIBBLES, CHARADES,ARITHMETICAL PUZZLES, &c.SELECTED FROM THE BEST SOURCES,GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS,1856.Price One Fenny.A SELECTION OF/CONTENTS.Conundrums,   10Quibbles, 11Charades  11Arithmetical Puzzles, 13Solutions of the Riddles and Enigmas, 15^Solutions of the Conundrums, 1G;Solutions of the Quibbles, 17Solutions of the Charades, 18' J:: 'r. v«Solutions of the Arithmetical Puzzles, 18Blind Harry, or Blind Man’s Bull', 19Forfeits, 19 ;The Miniature Fortune-Teller, 21':Answers to Fortune-Teller, 225FIRESIDE AMUSEMENTS.Among the various pastimes by which the long winterevenings are agreeably spent in the family circle, as well asin miscellaneous parties, Riddles and Enigmas have alwaysheld a favourite place; and therefore in our “FiresideAmusements,” which we trust will he to all into whosehands it may fall, the means of passing an evening pleasantly,we shall begin with the most popular.RIDDLES AND ENIGMAS.1. What shoemaker makes shoes without leather,With all the four elements put together,Fire, water, earth, and air.And every customer takes two pair ?2. I’m strangely capricious; I’m sour or I’m sweet,To housewives I’m useful, to children a treat;Yet I freely confess I more mischief have doneThan any thing else that is under the sun 13. I have no head, and a tail I lack,But oft have arms, and legs, and back;I inhabit the palace, the tavern, the cot—’Tis a beggarly residence where I am not.Were a monarch now present, (I tell you no fable,)I still should be placed at the head of the table!4. Three feet I have, but ne’er attempt to go,And many nails thereon, but not one toe.5. Perfect with a head, perfect without a head; perfectwith a tail, perfect without a tail; perfect with either, neither,or both.46. There was a man bespoke a thing,Which, when the owner home did bring,He that made it did refuse it,He that bought it would not use it,And he that had it could not tell,Whether it suited ill or well.7. Enough for one, too much for two, and nothing at alfor three.8. There wras a man who was not born,His father was not before him ;He did not live, he did not die,And his epitaph is not o’er him.9. We are little airy creatures,All of different voice and features; -One of us in glass is set,Another yon will find in jet,A third you’re sure to meet in tin,And the fourth a box within ;If the last you should pursue,It can never fly from you.10. ’Tis in the church, but not in the steeple,’Tis in the parson, but not in the people,’Tis in the clapper, but not in the bell,’Tis in the oyster, but not in the shell.11. ’Tis true I have both face and hands,And move before your eye;Yet when I go my body stands,And when I stand I lie.12. Formed long ago, yet made to-day,I’m most in use when others sleep ;What few would like to give away,Yet none would wish to keep.13. What is that which has neither flesh nor bone, andyet has four fingers and a thumb?14. “What relation is that gentleman to you?” said onelady to another. She answered, “ His mother was mymother’s only child.”515. What is that word of one syllable, which, if the twofirst letters are taken from it, becomes a word of two sylla¬bles ?10. We travel much, yet prisoners arc,And close confined to boot;We with the swiftest horse keep pace,Yet always go on foot.17. What word is that to which, if you add a syllable, itwill make it shorter?18. What is that which is lengthened by being cut at both'ends?19. What is that which was never seen, felt, nor heard,' and yet has a name?20. What word is that of five syllables, from which if youI take away one, no syllable remains ?21. What snuff-taker is that whose box gets fuller themore snuff he takes ?22. A gardener, seeing four birds destroying his fruit, firedhis gun at them, and killed one—How many remained?23. What is that which goes with a carriage, and comeswith a carriage; is of no use to the carriage itself, and yet thecarriage can’t move without it?24. What two words in the English language contain allthe vowels, in the order in which they follow one another inthe alphabet ?25. In which month do the ladies talk least?2G. How many sides are there to a tree?27. “ How many daughters have you,” said one gentleman)to another. He replied, “Six, and each daughter has abrother.” How many children had he?28. As I was going to St. Ives,I chanced to meet with seven wives,Each wife had seven sacks,6Each sack had seven cats.Each cat had seven kittens ;Kittens, cats, sacks, and wives,How many were going to St. Ives ?29. A duck before two ducks, a duck behind two ducksand a duck between two ducks. How many ducks were thenin all ?30. A word of three syllables seek till you find,That in it have twenty-four letters combined.31. I went into a wood and got it; when I got it, I lookedat it; the more I looked at it the less I liked it; and I carriedit home in my hand because I could not find it.32. When walking thro’ a field of wheatI pick’d up something good to cat;’Twas neither fish, flesh, fowl, nor bone.And I kept it till it ran alone.33. What is that which grows with its root upwards, liveonly in winter, and is never seen in summer ?34. I know a word of letters three,Add two and fewer they will be.35. What is that which goes from Glasgow to Edinburghwithout moving?36. What word is that of five letters, from which if yontake away two, you leave but one ?37. What is every body doing at the same time ?38. What is brought to table, cut, and handed about, butnever eaten ?39. What word is that, which to name it is to break it ?40. Where did the cock crow when all the world couldhear him ?41. If a poker, shovel, and tongs, cost a guinea, what willa hundredweight of coals come to ?V42. Which is heavier—a pound of lead or a pound offeathers ?43. What is that which is black, white, and read all over?44. Where did Noah strike the first nail in the ark?45. Where was Peter when the candle went out ?46. What difference is there between live fish and fistalive?47. What’s that which no man ever yet did see,Which never was, but always is to be ?48. You eat me, you drink me,Come guess if you can,I’m sometimes a woman,And sometimes a man.49. What is that which you and every living person hasseen, but can never see again ?50. How many black beans will make five white ones?51*. Which is the middle letter of the alphabet ?52. Pray tell me, ladies, if you can,Who is that highly-favoured man,Who, tho’ he marries many a wife,May be a bachelor all his life ?53. From a number that’s odd cut off- the head,It then will even be;It’s tail, I pray, take next away,Your mother then you’ll see.54. What every one wants, what every one gives,What many a one asks, and what very few take.55. What kin is that child to its own father, who is not itsfather’s own son ?56. One thing, good sir, of you I crave,Which you yourself can never have,Nor ever had in time that’s past,Nov ever can while time doth last;8Yet if you love me, as you say,Pray give it me, I’m sure you may.57. The beginning of eternity,The end of time and space.The beginning of every end,And the end of every place.58. I’m found in loss, but not in gain,If there you search, ’twill be in vain ;I’m found in hour, but not in day—My name, I’m sure, you now can say.59. If there was a bird on a peach, and you wanted thepeach, how would you get it without disturbing the bird?60. What is that which the living and the dead do at thesame time ?61. What piece of coin is double its value by deducting itsihalf?62. What is the difference between war and love ?63. What did Adam first set in the garden of Eden ?64. What is that which, by diminishing the cause, increases:the effect ?65. A certain wit declared of late,That every act of magistrateWas water in a freezing state.66. In ancient times there lived one,As Scripture will declare,Who spoke, and ever spoke the truth,Which plainly did appear.He liv’d on earth, and did not sin,Guiltless he liv’d and died; -And all his actions were most just,And to be justified.Yet, for fill this, ’tis sure in heavenHe ne’er shall find a place,Nor any of his ancestors,Nor yet his future race,067. There was a creature formed by God,Which did shew forth his power,He ne’er for sinners did repent,Or name of Christian bore.The law he never understood,Nor did the gospel know;And yet did miracles which GodCommanded him to do.He ne’er for sinners did lament, ,Yet moved by power divine,Against a man of God was sent,To punish him for sin.He had no hope of future bliss,Nor fear’d his Maker's rod ;Yet did contain a living soulThat panted after God.Although his great Creator’s willHe never once transgress’d,He shall no seat in glory fill,Among the saints in rest.Now read the world from age to age.In history profane,No record but the sacred pageThis wonder doth explain.68. There was a prophet in Jerusalem—his genealogy wasbefore Adam—he was with Noah in the ark—with ourSaviour when he was betrayed—ho prophesies every day, andhis prophecies come true—he does not believe in the resur¬rection of the dead—and yet there is not an article of theChristian faith which he denies.69. What is that which, by adding something to it, willbecome smaller, but if you add nothing, will become larger?70. A cat in each of the four corners of the room, a catopposite each cat, a cat looking at each cat, and a cat sittingon each cat’s tail—How many cats are there in all?71. Tell a person to take a silver coin in one hand, and acopper one in the other, and you will tell him in which handthey are respectively held, without his showing or telling yoa.1072. Where is happiness always to be found?73. What is likest to a cat looking out at a window ?74. When is a man over head and ears in debt ?75. What were the first words Adam said to Eve?76. Do you ever see a bun dance on a table?We here close our list of Riddles and Enigmas, which wohave extended to a greater length than we at first intended.We now proceed with another popular pastime, consistingof a selection ofCONUNDRUMS.1. Why is a room full of married people like an emptyroom ?2. Why is a schoolmistress like the letter c ?3. Why is a miser like a man with a short memory ?4. Why is the letter d like a wedding-ring ?5. Why is a pig in a parlour like a house on fire ?6. Why is an Irishman mending his clothes like a rich man ?7. Why is your nose like the v in civility ?8. Why is an egg overdone like one underdone ?9. Why is an anecdote-book like a bookseller’s shop?10. Why is a man who runs in debt like a clock?11. Why is a drawn tooth like a thing forgot ?12. Why is a young spendthrift like the letter y?13. Why is love like a potatoe?14. Why is the letter a like loud speaking to a lady dull ofhearing ?15. Why do you go to bed ?16. Why is a dog biting his tail like a good economist ?17. Why is the letter g like wisdom ?18. Why is Old England, transposed, like California?19. Why is a tailor very unlike a mirror?20. Why are your teeth like verbs?21. Why is drunkenness like a ragged coat?22. Why is a fretful man like a hard-baked loaf?11523. Why are fixed stars like pen, ink, and paper?24. Why does a miller wear a white hat ?25. Why is a tailor like a monarch ?QUIBBLES.The following are the best we have met with in this depart¬ment of fireside amusement—1. Draw a circle round a person standing in the centre ofa room, so that he cannot come out of it.2. Take a coin in each hand, and, stretching the armsapart, put both coins in one hand without bringing the handstogether.3. Place a candle so that every person in the room shallsee it except one, although he shall not be blindfolded, norprevented from examining every part of the room.4. Put something into your right hand, which it is impossi¬ble for you to put into your leit.5. Kiss a lady’s bag inside and outside without opening it.6. Bite an inch off the poker.7. Put yourself through the keyhole.8. Take a shilling from under the candlestick, withouttouching the candlestick.CHARADES.A charade is a compound enigma, having a riddle con¬nected with each syllable of the word in question, and some¬times with the whole word. The following is a selection ofthe best Charades have seen or heard—1. My first is a preposition, my second a composition, andmy whole an acquisition.2. My first is a prop, my second is a prop, and my wholeis a prop.J123. My first t would venture for, my second I would Vetlturcin, and my whole is very much valued.4. My first I hope you are, my second I see you are, andmy whole I know you are.5. My first gives light, my second gives light, and my wholegives light.6. My first is a fish, my second is a fish, and my whole is aifish.7. All is my first, so is my second, and also my whole.8. I am what I was, which is so much the worse,I’m not what I was, but quite the reverse,From morning till night I do nothing but fret,And sigh to he what I never was yet.9. My first is equality,My second inferiority.My whole superiority.10. If you were my first, and I were my whole,My second might go where he’d please,Then I should be blest, and you’d be caress’d,And the rest of our days live at ease.11. Take half what’s needful for the dead,What helps physicians to their bread;These joined aright will show most clear,A liquor firmed both far and near.12. My love to you can never know my first, can never hemy second, and will always he my whole.13. My whole in this country is taken for two.Behead me a whole generation’s in view,Behead me again, and you very much maim,But leave me triumphant—the head of a game.14. My first in your face has a prominent place,My next when well dressed you appear,A bundle of sweets my whole just completes,When Flora bedizens the year.1315. My second of my first takes care,Yet first and second, I declare,United make but one, and sheProvides for all the family.16. My first attends the pleasures of the chase,My second’s very useful in its place,My whole’s a sailor's pride, in which you’ll see,A joyous throng praise his activity.17. My first is company, my second shuns company, myHurd collects company, and my whole amuses company.18. With my second I should like very much to do my first,But my pocket don’t admit such a mode of quenchingthirst.So my second and my third I’m obliged to patronise,Till my funds and railway stock get a little on the rise.19. Within my first to take the airSometimes the rich and great repair;My second on the verdant plainIs seen to tend his fleecy train ;My whole upon the stormy seasNow bravely toils, now lolls at ease.20. My first is where you place your child, my second iswhat you make your child, and my whole is part of your head¬dress.21. My first is a plaything, my second none would playwith, and my whole is a poisonous animal.22. A mischievous urchin may soon do my first,If he meet with a tea-pot or ewer;My second brings on us both hunger and thirst,And my ichole thirst and hunger can cure.23. "My first shows time, my second spends time, and mywhole reports time.A It IT II METICAL PUZZLES.These are endless, but we have taken great care to selectthe best and newest.1. How can you make nineteen more by taking from it?142. What is the difference between twice twenty-five, andiltwice five and twenty ?3. If you get a herring and a-half for three halfpence, howmany can you buy for elevenpence?4. A and B bet as to which could eat most eggs. A ateninety-nine, B ate one hundred and won. How many didB eat more than A ?5. What is the difference between half-a-dozen dozen, andsix dozen dozen ?6. Think on any number you please unknown to me,double it; add 20 to it; take away half of the whole amount;subtract now the figure you thought on from it, and the re¬mainder is 10.7. What is the two-thirds of three-fourths of elevenpence-halfpenny ?8. Make nine less by adding to it.9. Part of a foot with judgment transpose,And the answer you’ll find just under your nose.10. Four things there are all of a height,One is crooked, the rest are straight,Take three away, and then you’ll findExactly ten remain behind.11. A person being asked how much money he had, replied, [J“If I had as much again, half as much again, and half-a-crown, |]I should then have a pound.” How much had he ?12. A servant went to market with orders to buy twentyfowls for 20d. She did so, and brought home pigeons at 4d., ;larks at Jd., and sparrows at jd. each. How many were thereof each sort ?13. “My purse and money,” said Dick to Harry, “areworth 12s. 8d., but the money is worth seven times the purse.”What did the purse contain?14. A man agrees for twelve peaches, at a farthing for thefirst, a halfpenny for the second, and so on till the last. Whatdid they cost him ?15. Peculiarities of the Figure 9.—Multiplied by any figureyou please, the figures of the product added together will15make 9. For instance, twice 9 are 18, 8 and 1 are 9 ; threetimes 9 are 27, 7 and 2 are 9 ; and so on. If multiplied by-two or more figures, such as 12 or 123, the result will he thesame, but in some cases the product may give a plurality ofnines.- 16. How much is a-third and half a-third of 5 ?17. Add five strokes to six, so as to make nine.18. A, B, and C had a dinner which cost them £5. B paid25s. more than C, and A 25s. more than B. How much dideach pay ?19. If you cut 20 yards of cloth into one yard pieces, andcut one yard every minute, how long will it take you ?20. A woman going to the well to bring 4 quarts of water,had only a 3-quart measure and a 5-quart measure. Howdid she measure exactly 4 quarts ?21. Put down four 3’s in such a way as that they will count34.SOLUTIONS OF THE KIDDLES AND ENIGMAS.1. A blacksmith.2. An apple.3. A chair.4. A yard-measure.5. A wig.6. A coffin.7. A secret.8. Not was his name.9. The five vowels.10. The letter R.11. A clock.12. A bed.13. A glove.14. Her son.15. Plague, a-gue.16. A pair of spurs.17. Short, short-er.18. A ditch.19. Nothing.20. Mo-nosyllable.21. The snuffers.22. None, the others flewaway.23. Noise.24. Facetiously, abstemious¬ly-25. February—the shortest.26. Two—outside and in¬side.27. Seven.28. One, only myself—they30. Alphabet.31. A thorn.32. An egg.33. An icicle.34. Fewer.29. Three.were coming/rom it.1G35. The road.3G. Stone.37. Growing older..38. A pack of cards.39. Silence.40. In the ark.41. Ashes.42. They are both the same.43. A newspaper.44. On the head.45. In the dark.46. There is a difference.47. To-morrow.48. Toast.49. Yesterday.50. Five, if they are skinned.51. P. The words, “TheAlphabet,” are meant.52. A clergyman.53. Seven.54. Advice.55. His daughter.56. A husband.57. The letter E. •58. The letter O.59. By waiting till the birdwas gone.60. They go round with theworld.61. A halfpenny.62. The one breaks heads,and the other breakshearts.63. His foot.64. Snuffing a candle.65. Just-ice.66. Balaam’s ass.67. The whale which swal¬lowed Jonah.68. The cock.69. A hole in a stocking.70. Four. Each could siton its own tail, and at clthe same time be op- iposite to, and lookingat, the others.71. Thesilvermustbcnamedsome even number, :and the copper some iodd number. Then itell the person to mul-tiply the number in hisright hand by an evennumber, and that inhis left by an odd 'number, and tell you .whether the amount ;of the two, added to- :gether, is odd or even. IIf odd, the silver is in [the right hand; if even, Iit is in the left.72. In a dictionary.73. A cat looking in.74. AVhen he has not paid ifor his wig.75. No one can tell.76. I often see aiwntfunce on Ia table.SOLUTIONS OF THE CONUNDRUMS.1. Because there is not a single person in it.2. Because she forms lasses into classes.3. Because he is always forgetting—for getting.4. Because ive could not be wed without it.5. Because the sooner it is put out the better.6. Because he is taking in his rents.177. Because it is between two i’s—(eyes.)8. Because it is hardly done.9. Because it contains many authors.10. Because he goes on tick.11. Because it is out of the head.12. Because he makes pa’ pay.13. Because it shoots from the eye.14. Because it makes her hear.15. Because the bed ■will not come to you.16. Because he is making both ends meet.17. Because it is the beginning of greatness and goodness.18. Because, by putting the g first, you make it Goldenland.19. Because the one speaks without reflecting, the otherreflects without speaking.20. Because they are regular, irregular, and defective.21. Because it is a bad habit.22. Because he is crust}'.23. Because they are stationary.24. Because it keeps his head warm.£5. Because his nose is above his chin.SOLUTIONS OF THE QUIBBLES.1. Draw it round his body.2. Put the coin in one hand on a table or sideboard, andturning round, take it up with the other.3. Place the candle on his head—taking care that there isno mirror in the room.4. Your left elbow.5. First kiss it inside the room, then take it out of the roomand kiss it.G. Hold it near your mouth, and bite the air an inch fromit.7. Write the word “yourself” on a slip of paper, and,rolling it up, push it through the keyhole.8. Say “ Begone ! ” and assert that the shilling has disap¬peared; then desire the person to lift the candlestick to seewhether it is there, which he, without considering, will do,and thus give you the opportunity of lifting it, without touch¬ing the candlestick yourself,18SOLUTIONS OF THE CHARADES.1. For-tune.2. Foot-stool.3. Friend-ship.4. Wel-come.5. Fire-brand.6. Cod-ling.7. Al-so.8. An old maid.9. Match-less.10. Bride-groom.11. Cof-fce.18. Sup-port-er.19. Boat-swain.20. Lap-pet.21. Rattle-snake.22. Break-fast.23. Watch-man.13. Brace, race, ace.14. Nose-gay.15. House-wife.16. Horn pipe.17. Co-nun-drum.12. End-less.SOLUTIONS OF THE ARITHMETICAL PUZZLES.1. XIX. XX.2. Twice twenty-five is 50, and twice five, and twenty, is 30.3. Eleven—they are a penny a-piece.4. One—but your hearers will be apt to answer two, sup¬posing you said one hundred and one.5. Seven hundred and ninety-two—the former being 72,and the latter 864.6. It is always half the sum you desire to be added thatremains.7. Fivepence three-farthings. The two-thirds of the three-fourths of any thing are just the one-half of the whole.9. Inch, chin.10. XIII., X.11. Seven shillings.12. 3 pigeons at 4d.-=12d.; 15 larks at £d.=7Jd ; 2 sparrowsat |d.r=|d. 20d.13. 11s. Id.14. £2 2s. 8d.16. Two and a-half. There are three thirds in 5, thereforea-third and half a-third make exactly half.18. A paid £2 18s. 4d., B £1 13s. 4d., and C 8s. 4d.19. Nineteen minutes.20. She first filled the 5-quart measure, and from it filledthe 3-quart measure; then emptied the 3-quart measure, andput into it the 2 quarts that remained in the 5-quart. She8. IX., SIX.'-7. | || I I I NINE.19then filled the 5-quart measure again, and after filling up the3-quart measure, she had exactly 4 quarts left in the 5-quartmeasure.21. SSJ.BLIND HARKY, OR BLIND MAN'S BUFF,Though a noisy game, creates a good deal of fun and amuse¬ment. One of the party volunteers to be the blind man forthe time, and when bis eyes are well bandaged with a hand¬kerchief, he is made to turn round three times, so that hemay lose his knowledge of the whereabouts of the others.I The company, or as many of them as choose, then run about1 him, touching his hands, arms, or body, but taking care not(to be caught. When he seizes any one, he must be able toI tell his name, or if not, he must allow him to get away and try1 anew; but if he identify the person caught, he is relieved, ImdI the captive takes his place as Blind Harry, and so on.FORFEITS.The game of Forfeits is one in which the whole companyi take a part. Each person forfeits a ring, pencil-case, penknife,I key, or any other small article, on failing to comply with oneI or other of certain conditions, such as the following:—I. Answer a question when specially called on to do so.II. Solve a riddle, conundrum, charade, or arithmeticalpuzzle.III. Catch between your two hands, without letting it fall,a twirling plate.IV. Hold first when ordered to let go, and let go whenordered to hold fast, a handkerchief, of which all the companyhas a hold, and over which the mistress of ceremonies says,“ This is a handkerchief full of contradictions; when I sav,‘ Let go,’ you hold fast, and when I say, ‘Hold fast,’ you letgo.”There are many other ways of obtaining forfeits, but theseare the principal, and they may frequently be obtained as thegame proceeds, for when any one fails in doing what js re¬quired of him to redeem what he has in pledge, he forfeitsanew, and so on.20The articles forfeited are taken charge of by the lady of the>house, 'who is generally mistress of ceremonies in the game,or one of the company delegated by her to receive them ; andwhen they are all received, some other person is appointedto order what each must do to redeem them. This personsits or kneels beside the holder of the forfeits, placing herhead in her lap, face downwards, and the holder then raiseseach forfeit above the head of the kneeler, and inquires whatthe owner must do before it can be restored to him. One orother of the following, or something of the same sort, is thennamed, the performance of which is necessary to entitle theowner to his forfeited property.1. Sing a song, or tell a story.2. Recite a piece of poetry.3. Kneel to the prettiest in the room.4. Kiss the one you love best.5. Compose two or four lines in rhyme.6. Propose a conundrum.7. Relate an anecdote.8. Repeat a Scottish proverb.9. Stand with your face to the wall till some asks you tosit down.10. Stand in the middle of the room, and first make a wofulface, and then a merry one.11. Kiss yourself in the looking-glass.12. Sing the musical scale.13. Kiss the four corners of the room.14. Count twenty backwards rapidly.15. Mention the- name of some remarkable person, andrelate an anecdote of him.16. Walk round the room, and kiss 3rour shadow in eachcorner of it. If you laugh, pay another forfeit.17. Repeat whatever you are told, however difficult; orpay another forfeit.18. Keep a serious countenance for five minutes, whatevermay be said or done to make you smile: a forfeit if you don’t19. Give a comic recitatioc.20. Laugh in one corner of the room, cry in a second, yawnin a third, and sing in a fourth.21. Stand on a chair, and perform whatever motions youore told without laughing.2122. Dance a hornpipe.23. Perform the langhing gamut.24. Kiss the candiestick. If a lady, one of the gentlemenwill run and seize the candlestick, and you must kiss him.25. Say five flattering things to the person next you, withoutusing the letter /.26. Kiss a box or bag inside and outside without openingit. This may be done by first kissing it in the room, and thentaking it out of the room, and kissing there also.27. A line of poetry being given, repeat another line torhyme with it.28. Ask a question to which “yes” is the only answer.This question is, “ What word does y-e-s spell ? ”29. Hop on one foot round the room, once, twice, or threetimes, as you are bidden.30. Rub your left hand on your left breast, and at the sametime beat quickly with your right hand on your right breast,without changing the motion of either till you leave off alto¬gether; or pay another forfeit.31. Bite an inch off the poker. This is done by holdingthe poker near the mouth, and biting the air an inch from it.32. Repeat the following rapidly, without a pause or mis¬take :—Peter Piper pick’d a peck of pickled peppers;A peck of pickled peppers Peter Piper pick’d ;If Peter Piper pick’d a peck of pickled peppers,Where’s the pickled peppers Peter Piper pick’d ?33. Put yourself through the keyhole. This is done bywriting the word “yourself” on a piece of paper, rolling itup, and slipping it through the keyhole.Toward, the close of the game, and when those who havestill forfeits to regain, are desirous to finish it, the whole maybe redeemed at once by the parties singing a medley. Ifjoined by the rest of the company, so much the better,—it willlead to another mode of spending an agreeable hour.THE MINIATURE PORTUNE-TELLER.Any person wishing his or her fortune to be told, must sub¬mit to be blindfolded, and, with a large needle or penknife,point to one or other of the squares in the following Table.22The number in whose square the point falls will, when referredto in the list of answers, give the fortune of the person.ANSWERS TO FORTUNE-TELLER.1. A life full of changes—.die rich.2. Early marriage and pros¬perous. «3. Many lovers, but diesingle.4. A speedy journey of greatimportance.5. Become rich through alegacy.6. Hours of pleasure, yearsof care.7. Your present lover isfalse.8. You will marry yourpresent choice.9. Wed thrice, and die inwidowhood.10. You will travel over landand sea.11. If not already wed, younever will be.12. Gaming will be your ruin.13. You will be very happy inmarriage.14. You will change your lovesoon.15. A long life and prosperous.16. A rival will cause you tears.17. Beware of a false friend.18. Fate decrees you twopartners.19. A large family of pros¬perous children.20. You will not wed yourpresent lover.21. You w ill soon fall des-parately in love.22. You will soon be inmourn-'ing.23. You will gain an estate byindustry.24. You will better yourselfby marriage.E5. Youwillsoonlosebyfraud.26. You will marry an ill-tempered person.27. A sudden rise attends you.28. You will see an absentlover.29. Many enemies, but finallytriumph.SO. A bad partner, but happyreformation.1. A speedy proposal ofmarriage.P2. A present, and a newlover:|33. Invitation to a gay party.34. A serious quarrel.35. A disgraceful intrigue.136. A run of ill luck.137. Gifts of money.|38. A good partner in mar¬riage.39. You will become rich.40. Money through love..41. Cash by trade.42. A long journey.43. Important news soon.44. Mind what you say to alover.45. A present from a distance.■46. A dispute with one youlove.47. Visit from a distant friend.48. A law suit.149. Advancement in life.150. Love at first sight.51. A prize worth having.52. Wealth, dignity, honour.53. Visit to a foreign land.54. Profit by industry.55. A multitude of cards.56. Preferment through afriend.57. Second partnerbetter thanfirst.58. Surmount many difficul¬ties.59. A false friend.60. A pleasing surprise.61. A change in your affairs.62. A ramble by moonlight.63. Injured by scandal.64. Unpleasant tidings.65. Great loss and disappoint¬ment.66. About to attend a chris-tenipg.67. Change of situation.68. A handsome present soon.69. An invitation to a mar¬riage.70. News from sea.71. Happiness or marriage.72. Pleasant intelligence fromabroad.73. An agreeable partner.74. You are in love, thoughyou wont allow it.75. A quarrel with yourintended.76. Disappointment in love.77. You will fall in love withone who is alreadyengaged.78. You will heir an estateshortly.79. An unexpected death.80. You meditate an elope¬ment.81. A dangerous illness.82. Crosses and disappoint¬ments await you.2483. You have three strings toyour bow.84. You long to be married.85. Your intended is in thesere and yellow leaf.86. A lap full of money and alap full of children.87. You will marry a widowor widower.88. You will have few friends.89. You will not be marriedthis year.90. You will be apt to breakyour promise.91. Marry in haste and repentat leisure.92. You are in danger of losingyour sweetheart.93. Beware of changing forthe w'orse.94. You shall have manyoffers.95. You will be happy if con¬tented.96. You will shortly obtainyour wishes.97. An advantageous bar-gain.98. You will see your intendednext Sunday for thefirst time.99. Others will covet yourgood luck.100. Travel in a foreign land.101. Venture freely and youwill certainly gain.102. Yourpresentspeculationswill succeed.103. You love one who docsnot love you.104. Wealth from a quarteryou little suspect.105. You will obtain yourwishes through afriend.106. A fortune is in store foryou—persevere.107. Alter your intention; yotucannot succeed.108. Remain at home for thepresent.109. Ill luck awaits you.110. Prepare for a journey. „111. You will succeed ac¬cording to your wishes.112. Beware of enemies whoseek to do you harm. ,113. Misfortune at first, butcomfort and happinessafter.114. Prosperity in all yourundertakings.115. Rely not on one who pre¬tends to be your friend.116. Change your situationand you will do better.117. It will be difficult for youto get a partner.118. Your lover is whimsicaland changeable.119. You will meet with sor¬row and trouble.120. Your lover wishes to beyours this moment.121. You will gain nothing bymarriage.