V-theHISTORYOFSir William Wallace,THETrni^TED <:A L K: I E K f. -SOLD BY T. JO’n'STC^,1?20;*» •.* ii t■ •• 1. VWMillaW -'i■ 'o' w 3>)A3.1*7/ Mi t. ^;UiOSial/i-'ii^ o i c*' -.. 3 •hi f! ;*«) ;>'#] ,! ffeuni i *u*»-. f • j: .• >v ..■ •i- . 5". o -:L;i iiOSi 'b'.^q Jiff' . w;'- 'iff! ,v j jp--nie> :/l 3o‘ "billin ir‘-' OI-.S HU■Ko vilj Wi'i pii-u! »>. r, uio’*H n .igph artj u1 baxi--»• ■•iWii.t'i 'yil«JV »",•'■■•rtv"?< ■'» o ii>11••••* ,95>il vb;r' .O!.',/HISTORY4OFSir William Wallace.«SIR WILLIAM WALLACE was theyoungest son of Sir Malcoui Wallace ofEilerslie. in the shire of Ayr, and his motherwhs a daughter of Sir Ronald Crawford, sheriffof that county. The period of his’ birth is un¬recorded, but it mifst have been pr<. vious tothe death of Alexander III. who met with anuntimeiy dead, by a, fall from his horse, atKiisghorn, in 1-280.*. ’ „That monarch was the last of a successionof princes, who had held the sceptre about 800years, a>i left it in the hand of his grand*daughter, caljed the maid of Norway,' who,dying in infhncy. gave ris? to the fajnoujr con-tart between Baliol and Bruce, for the crown,but it parties having referred to the decision ofEdward T. of England ' who unjustly clagnedthe crown for himself, and attempted to d- pnve -S««'da'-id *f hoi independ<.nce. To WailaoeA 2 . it( 4 1 •St was reserved to be the first to vindicate herwrongs, and restore her to ancient splendour.All 'hi-sUlricas airro&, that though WVUace’sfather was paasessed of a small property, yet,the.energy, the;grandeur, and the intrepidityof thethiiidofhis son. were formed in the school©f advt rsity, Leaving his parental home, he»V( nt to reside at Kiispindv, upon the banks oi*the Tay, in the fhlre of Perth. From this, hewent to Dundee, and was educated underJohn Bhnr, who was afterward* his chaplain,and lived to record ids adventures^Some historians relate, that Wallace beganto display his native valour and greatnuss ofmind, at the fatal buttle of Dunbar, where theveteran Ooops of Edward 1. vanquished thetumultuary legions of Baiiol, or King John This circumstance appears, however, to becontrad etod by the general current of theov nts of ids life. But that unfortunate battleh. v ng led to the abdication of King John,and. haying iilied-every part of Scotland withEnglish officers and soldiers, who insulted dieinhabitants, and preyed upon the vitois of theJumbled kingdom, Wallace beheld the op¬pressors of his countrymen with indignationand horror; syhipathised in the suf.errnga ofindividuals;- and mourned the degradation oftns native land* The base injustice treachery,and cruelty of Edward's governors, becamethe subject,, of .general conversation, and thenumerous cruelties and indignities of his officer*find men, exasperated the iiation to tile highest4egra\- f 5 JWallace was «f an incredible streEgtli'^body, and had arrived at that period ot’ !iiewhan the feelings are strong and ardent, andevery pulse beats with a generous glow towardsthe objects of affection. These fr quent con-vcrsatidflpiunii tl«6 outrages of tne Euelisiiat D«ntn!e where he resided at school appearfirst to have roused his spirit in defence ofbis bleeding country. Ah plates of powerand wealth throughout tigs kingdom were given «to Englishmen; and, among others, one Selbybad been elevated to .the dignity of Gdnstableof Dundee. Young Wallace was cither insulted,or deemed himself *o, by bis son; and, as Jibwas not of a temper to receive any insult with 'impunity, far less from an Eng!simian, lie at¬tacked 'ciby, and, in the presence of many ofI; s conipyoions, slew him with Ins own dn-ger.But such was his strengJti and~agiiity, that !i»escaped unhurt. *.During his night, while keenly pr.rsucd'bytlie Englisli, exhautted with fatt^u he rustledhito an inn, where !]e was formerly acquaintedwith the hostess, and ear. estly;entreated herprotection. With a celerity dictated by t\ maleailection,- he was-instantly dressed in the.attire-<*i a female servant, and was br,%kiy e.hp'oyedtwirling his tiistatf and humminighis »o»)g. wlmnthe pursuers seafdied toe house" into wjiicilthey had seen him enter. B.v .this means, heeluded their vigilance and fury j but convincedthat he could no longer be safi- ;n taut town,fce left the house of his kiud deliverer, - idA 3 hfeit*(6 }hastened to Ids paternal uncle, an opulcptpjergynian at Dunipace, in Stirlingshire.[lis hostilities were now coninienced withthe English, and tune and circumstances soexasperated his nrighty soul, that nothing couldequal his aversion to them, hut hlsJ|^r tor his.pwn country. During his resideiwBRvith hispncfC, he applauded the bent of his genius,cherished those feelings which were naturallyinherent in his mind, and niatured those dispo¬sitions which were to bless his country, andcrown him with tire laurels of immortal fame.The usual maxim that he inculcated upon hiupi nd was, that “‘Liberty was theLent of humanblessings, and i that vifhout rt life was notworth enjoying.”Adxr a short residence , with his uneje atDunipace, he and his mother returned homqto EHers’.ie . bqt upqn their eturp, found thathis father and eider brother had been cruellymurdered by the English at Lochmaben.—His great and noble mind was roused withindignation, and, panting with revenge, he• meditated retaliations wot thy of his country’ssufferings, and of the injuries which had berefthim of a father, and of an. only brother—As he could no longer remain unuerhis mother’sroof, and as his uncle, Crawford, durst not givehim shelter, for fear or' the Eagli»ii,*he wentto live secretly at Kiccartoun, in the house ofgit Kichard Wallace,;his paternal uncle.When residing with his uncle, he went oneday p fiiii iu tilv wuter of Irving; uieanwhileLortl( 7 )'Lora Ptrcv, the English lord-lieutenant c£the county, rode past, with his armed suit, ontin ir journey from Ayr to Glasgow. Accordingto their usual custom, five of them turned aside,and insultingly demanded the fish he had caught.He consented to give them a part, but they in¬sisted for thg whole, and seized them from hisboy. Irritated with their rapacity and inso¬lence. VVallacesjgave one of them a blow onthe head with his fishing-staff, that brought hinito the ground, and instantly wrested his swordfrom his hand. The rest attacked, but they,to their experience,-soon found that his indi¬vidual strength, dexterity and intrepidity, weresuperior to their united force. Three of themwere slain, and with diflicultv the other twoescaped. Informed that it was one Scotsmanwho had given them such a defeat, Lord Percywas so highly offended at their acting such’cowardly part, that he refused to return inarch of Wallace. • Meanwhile he rode hometriumph to his uncle, upon one of the horsesof the English. Convinced that he could nolonger remain in satiety with his uncle, andhaving been provided with money and othernecessaries, he set off upon his English horse,determined to seize every ppportiinit’ ‘ 'e-stroyghe English, and either deliver his i %or fall in the attempt. Firm to his tv * i,he spared neither great nor small of the Lt.j.iishwho fell in his way. For these her ,ic actionshe was outlawed by the English and compelled,during the inclemency of winter (1207) to live( s }iSt the fields, the woods, the' mowdJr.s. nrtStho- forest's where ae whndered* exposed toai! the hardships that it is pass bio for humannature to sustain. Tliese rough blasts of <id-T, rs^t Only tended to brace liis. nerves, and toprepare bun for performing greater actions.. The ardent love of freedom.* and the invete-nate rage against the oppression of the English,ban owed up every passion in ti». soul of Vvaliaee,and, like an eagle Intnting Kcr liis prey, hopanted for revenge upon them. An opportunityto attack any of them was to him sudieien#provocation.It is reported, that Vv’yile lurking’in the wood©f Longs’de, he would frequeatly repaii; indisguise to the town of, Avr to seelc an oppor-tifrnty of cutting otf so ne of the English.—•It happened, one nth He ef-day. when that placewas- crowded with people .from the adjocercountry, tiiat Wallace went into the townguised among them. Both to defy the the Set)and to*gratify his own avarice, ’an Eniishmaof uncommon strengtli, adopted the ndicidoiu-Scheme of public/:A, ippearmg in the market¬place. and, .for i very small sum, allowing any.Scotsman to give him a stroke ov_\ Tie backwith a urge pole 'or staff which he had pre¬pared* for that purpose. Many paid the small' sum, and exerted their strength, not to theinjury of the Bully,>.but to the filling his coffers.The sly,,indignant Wallace, approached amongthe rest, paid the ■stipulated sum, seized theponderous pole, and with #ne stroke dove his' Jsaek( 9 )back asunder! The English, who were preseutto enjoy five snort, when they Deltoid their,champion fallen, rushed upon Waha-Ce. Thefirst who assaulted him had head separatedin tvijo by the edge of the poie, which, in com¬pliment Ui the Englisman, also rent in, sunder.Deprived of this weapon, which had ^provedfatal to its owner and anotln r, Wallace drewIds sv.'jrd, concealed beneath his peasant dress,and with it laid other five of the English onthe street; and making his way through thecrowd of English wh:eh collected from all partsof the town, upon the report of what had hap¬pened, he mounted his horse, which was readyfor him at the extremity of the town, andhastened to his retreat. To Wallace every“Jfay was fortunate* that lessened the number ofScotland's oppressors.A second adventure proved not so propitiousto Vl aliage. Disg'uised in a manner differentfrom the former day, he ventured into Ayr,and sauntering through the town, he chancedto observe Lord -Percy’s steward most shame¬fully insulting tire servant of the Sheriff, andinsisting that be should have for his Lord whatthe servant had purchased for his snastes*  Wallace interfered, and safid.'that tiiO Sherifftv as a very good mar,, therefore sluetH haivoTIds dinner, whit’fi did not belongTo Loi'd i-’ercy /Hie Steward. .sWolk-n \fita tlie inSofe/Tco amil^ontemjjt of his' countryhien' tbtvflrdkthe'Sctftsjv.'th h.s hunting-cabe gave Wallabo a'sitrokcover the shoulders, occurspftfiicd wsfilrtlve mos'*' ©pnr^-•pprobrcas appellation that an English ihrea^tiua could supply. Wallace drew his dirk,and pieicing, the steward to the centre''laidkim on the from.d, and left the SiierifF's'servanfrat liberty to return home with hw provision.The English, who were in arms' for the pur¬pose of guarding the town, assendded ag£lin<iWallace; he drew his sword and gave deatkin various forms with every blow. Since nono■ urst approach him, in order to prevent his-eiscapp, the gates were barricaded «it!j theirspears- He then attempted to break overthe wall at a place adjacent to the. sea. bufinfultitudes of the English tushed upon him,and his sword having been so mucli employedth .t ilat, that it broke in pieces, he was over-po-.vered with their spears, taken*prisoner, and''comined.in the castle, to wait the most excru-ci iting death. The report of this sad event,spread consternation and sorrow ihrougholit8, odand. Hjs friends off red large sums for ^h reiisom ; but the Eng • increased in theird lands as their offers iileieased.tie languished in prison, deprived of everyeo olatiou. exce pt what resulted from a ainterod s.rt ior the welfare of Ins country., and evenct the n'jeessaries o* ufe; so that, when theywere at;out to bring Inm fort i to a cruel ancFigiipmin.ous death. wo*t. appeared to huve>termiu ,ted his hi’. They instantly threw Him —ov<-‘r t ie wail of the prison; but forti.nate.TF^far Scotland; he landed upon a soft draff’ dung-kuL Wallace’s hursu hvara ^ of tins add event.fir)'and, in the most suppl'eant Mannartr ►ted she might take away ?iis dSad corpse.K >vas immediately-put into a cart." conveyedto n.r lioust-j» the new town of’ Ayr, and, bytcnivdies, .and tfie most frioadiy attention, was.?evi*sed under her hospitable roof.Among others who beheld this mournful•vent, was the Aliii’stetr’s servant, of Ayr, vtf»c»returned hooie. and informed ftis master andthe family of what he had seen. Thomas theByrner, the famous ist ots Prophet, was r-siuni^v.';h the Y.iimister at that time, who, hedrin^the evil tidi<!gsv averred that Wmlafcd was notdead, or his prophecies were all hiise, which hejh.Hl utfc red concerning his flelif’f ri'hg.Scotland.”Accordingly, the servant sbnt to make tlieI strictest enquiry about the pew' town of Ayr,and particularly the house of his niirse.- ■■■■-.VY'ithout ceremony 'he rushed into her hyiise,and observing a place where life supposed thatthere was a concealed bed, sternly demandedwho lay there; she fell upon her kneds andearnestly entreated him to spare the brave andnoble Vvaila.ce. He then protested, in thestrongest language, tout he was a friend and nota foe to Wallace; which induced the nurse toa Im.t .him into- Ids apartment, to inform himby whom he had been sent. Returning homewith the joyful tidings, Thomas the Rymerexclaimed, that b lore his death' he would laythousands of the English'on the ground; andtbi'icc rescue Scotland from slavery.* I«iIts a short time Wallace recovered liis worstedStrength: sndlonging to appear amonghis friends,and to avenge his own and his country's wrongsupon the English, he seized a sword which wasStanding in a corner of his nurse’s house, andKogan his journey towards Riccartoun; havingpreviously sent her, and her chijd and servant,_ to his mother’s at Ellerslie, as they could nolonger be safe in that place. On his journeythither, he is said to have encountered an Eng¬lish knight, of the name of Longcastle, withhis two attqndants. Wallace having espiedthem, slept from the public road to avoid them,so that they might not provoke hhn to combat,which, from his weak and feebly armed state,he was not fond of hazarding. They, however,with the insolence which characterized theEnglish invaders, quickly followed him, anddemanded whither he went, and threatened himas a spy or thief. He pleaded the.excuse ofsickness, and> begged that they, would let himpass: Longcastle notwithstanding, said he mustrepair with him to ^yr as a prisoner, and wasalighting to seize him, when Wallace drewhis concealed sword, and laid him prostrate onthe ground; the attendants rushed upon him,' but both met tho fate of their haughty Lord,—He clad himself in.their armour, supplied him¬self with their money, returned thanks toHeaven, mounted Longcastle’s horse, and pur¬sued his road to Riccartoun. The nurse hadarrived before, and on her road had informedhis friends and relatives, who hastened to RiccartounC 13 )eartsim to congratulate Iiini on his miracivlt»u3escape rally around his standard, and bid defi¬ance to the English arms.His friends used their riu^t earnest entreatiesto persuade linn to remain at Uiccartoijn'with'his uncle. Their councils were, liowcver,- m vam;he longed to seek vengeafige on Southron blood,for the' dtath of his fatllt’i' and brotfer, tor thedishonour done to his fallen country', and theinjuries lie had himself received.When his friends perceived that all their en¬treaties could ipt prevail upon him to remaininactive at Uiccartonn, those gentlemen whowere present, and qualified to bear arms again:"the common foe resolved to .accompany him, _whether to victory dr to death. \u;ong thesewere the three sons iff Sir Uo'nakl, Adam,Jtic’njrd, and Simon; Ilobtgt Boyd. Cielia'nd,cousin to Wallace; and Edward Little, h-ssister’s son, along with several servants. W ith.tins brave little* band; Wallace went'to sin itery in a wood . air Loudtm-Hill, until an bpportu-Mity should occur of attacking the English ,A friend in this neighbourhood, having seen"Wallace and his men enter the wood, curriedprovisions to them, kindly entertained them t©tiie utmost of his poa er; and informed Wallace,that the servant of an English, squire ha^l rod®past to \yr and that his master, with 0 party,C8<vorti[% some baggage from Carlisle-to Vys,were following, and would soon pass this w.hvHe inmiediately sent out one bf his men to re-cmnioitre Uie approach of die enemy, wti*. * M - quitifcjjrf 14 )quickly returning, infor.ne l them t’iat fiethem in the plain, and tiiat they werty^cend-V ••the hill. He hastened to lay In's men in m;Zbush, and to prepare for their r^gptioa. 13they advanced, Wallace perceived tn-at Ih-nft- ck,who liad slain his father and brother, w .< theperson who commanded this parts • hi,; • ou-agewas then inflamed, and he resolved to be r ven¬ded of FensvVck or to d;e in the at; • ,ptThe English having to pass tbrbuv.h a 1 .••rrovpath. VYallace^and his man wait d tin. .r ap¬proach at this place, and Ivning ng it-J,a severe conflict ensued. Of t: e hnglish m .-cwere an hundred and eighty, but U mlact iiadonly fifty men. Tin* former well armed cmhorseback; the latter ondbot. (joi.fi ling, iidw-ever, in the strength of their arms, and theequity of their cause, they boldly encounter, d,and gave death with every blow. At the ;of Fenwick, the soul of AVabace fired wiih 'n- -dignation for the death of his fatlu-r a . 1 brother,and. rushing upon him, cut his,body in sunderwill) his trusty sword. Tin fill of their h ,<derdiscouraged his men; about an hundred of th ntfed in the field, the remainder fled, and,Wall csconstrained the English waggoiu rs to drive tireb;g jgage to a neiglihouririg wood.1 he horses, the armour, tire baggage, v*‘tilthe money that they carried along with the u,proved an acceptable present to Wallace, sailnot only supplied Jus present wanfs, but enub-led him to give large presents to some of lisafriends in the neighbourhood.*4 . srf *5 )Aftr'r tT>b adventure, the English were tofi’L d vv ih thr ti rror of Wallace, that they re-8:>‘v:- t to site for pt.cc. Convinced, however,cf .. s inveterate hatred towards them, and thatjK"aCc» Could not, be obtained without the inter-Cr c, of'liis friends, they sent for his uncle,fc> - Rmaid Crawford, and threatened hine withiuijmsohment or death, unless lie should obtainft'peace with Waliace. Ho yielded to theirv > 'vs; and having gone in quest of him, ob-ta o a p ace which Wallace had soon anor W i ture tr of severely regretting. For scarcelywas i ds peace agreed upon when Wallace, withtwo of his men met five Englishmen on horse¬back carrying Percy’s m on fey and jewels fromCil snow to Ayr.’t oe English horses being so fatigued withtheir journey that they could not proceed, theyinsisted for those of Wallace and his men.Found by the peace, or hy respect for his uncle,lie d'd not choose to quarrel with them: but assoon as tloy w gVe gone, he hastened to hisuncle, r nounced Ins agreement to keep thepeace, flew alter them, slew three with his ownhans and his men the other tw'o, and seizingthe inone\ and jewels took his route towardsthe shire of Argyle and the northern borderot l.ennox.W Kiictenng about in the woods, with a few whorotated to his standard, lie came near to Gar-gunnock, where there was a fort or pass, stronglygarr sci.ed by the English. Having approachedg* near as he prudently could, he sent two of13 3 his% *>< . ( 16 )his men during t’le darkness of tho niglit to v«-.aroiHO t'te strength and situation of the fort.] ‘ceivieg an agreeable account of the possibi¬lity of attacking them with success, lie hastenedtowards it, took the place, and put the myn tothe sword, bat set. the governor’s wife and therest of the women and children at liberty.From this place, he went to take shelter inthe woods and fastnesses, but luring no impor¬tunity of Slaying all the Fag fish whom he foundjp anns; mcaftwhile increasing Ins men andyf ares to prepare for greater exploit^.'Wandering about in this unsettled state,Wallace and his njen went together in the woodof Methven, a few niilt-s from Perth, then calledSt. Joluigtoun. 4mong tliese valiant andfaith-fed few who had marshalled under ^the bannerof Wallace, there was one Stephen, an Irishman,of uncommon strength and courage, to whomWallace having given the command of the rest,went with a few to visit t!}e towr\ of Perth.R minding Stephen that they had sulHcient-pro-•vision for several days, he cl.apgc'l him to lurksecretly in the wood until he returned, or to t»oprepared for. action, upon hearing^ t’pe soundof ids horn.Having adjusted matters, he set forward toPerth with a few of his me a. Arrived at thegate, the Proy&st.was sent for ’pcfor2 they couldfind.'Klmitjance. ’>\’hcn lie saw Wallace,astreatgVdl man, he fixed his eyes upon him, and en-auired if they wore rill Scotsiu.cn; »\Vt«jlxufreadily answered, “ We ,.rc not onlynh, Spots-. ' ' men.f *7 )wen, but as it is a time of peace, therefore thereis no cause to refuse us admission;” “ This1 grant,” stud the Provost, and men of peace,should always be well treated, but, pray tellme your name, and from what part of thecountry you are come?” Wallace answered,“ My name is William Malcom, we come fromEttrick Fof- st. in the South, to seek better em-plor rnent in the North, and to see the country.”I'hc Provost apologised for his enquiries, andadded, “ That he meant no harm by his ques¬tioning them, but that so many r. ports had beencirculated about one William Wallace, born inthe vVest, who was destroying and slaying theEnglish where he could find them; therefore,as tie was a tali stong man it was necessary toknow those whom they admitted into the Town.Denying that he knew any thing of Wallace,and desiring him not to mention such a hatedname, he was not only admitted into the town,but an inn provided for him and his men untilthev should find employment; and them theywere quickly provided with plenty of every thingthe place could afibrd.Wallace would often invite Englishmen todr nk with him. in order to discover their num¬ber and strength in the place, and also discoverwhai other intelligence he could gather. WhatT - spent with them, he did with great reluctance',but lavished cheerfully upon any ofbis country¬men, whom invitation or chance threw in hiswav. Often, whik sauntering about the place,|i(t would iiuueut to himself, that he could deviselib SO( IS )-no metlibd to tafcp the to^n. which was in the-, ■ possessioh <)*'■ the' En^lish. His iireh were to*tew in npiritof to make the dftrifi» ;iftempt, aiuihe could not set it io flames without Ottiitentdanger to himself, and greater to his mfeti; torthouau lie could swim over the river, yet perhapsisurae of them eeukl not;i-Jut though unable to achieve this milch-desired work; yet another soon occurred. Therewa« then in the town one Sir 'Jo'mes a»wged. cruel knight, who kept the strong csstleof Kinklevin, residing with his son Sir John,iiQ under-captain to ^ir (icrard Heron and,H report whs spread-that Sir James, with hisparty, were to return home to Krrjclevin CaStle.Wallace no soOner received tins intelligence,thanj with his followers, he hastened to Methven-yvood. hlekv iiis ho«nj and. ail Ins intrepid liandwere quioklv around hi'n, flourishing in goodheultli and ready for actidh.Well armed, they marched from the woodtow;U'ds Kinklevin 'and in the valley upon thebank of Tay. they hiy in anjiusi# among a fewbushes.; meanwhile, sent spies in different direc- »'tioMB. Som© of them sodn retui-ied- bringingthe information, thatnfcnir men on horseback•bwl ipassed, tvhli appeared to he iori^runVieisof tie fsompan^t Hie prudent. 'Wallace conv-.minded los meoisdil to remain-coijpealed, whfHeHbediimselfhvaut to obtain more certain iotelli-.‘geneei- 1 tit-length ho lespied fourscore and te»me«, Weil ai-fited, eu hctse-back, chosen im-a©f vaipur. jV ot -ci.-iio - u aij-caj;ir . Having( 19 )JHayrng ascertained tlifcir number and strength,W^ldacrvtiiankad God that they were no stronger*and prepartu-ti) attack tliein. The English were#urpased at tlieir appearance*.and could not,for a time, discover tlieir intention. Ap)>.'oacb-ing neart they perceived the hostile design ofV> allace and his men* and brand’Kliing theirspears, they ruyhed upon the Scots, hoping totrample, them•.under Yoof- They wen? boldlyrepulsed', -and g tvt.ral,- both horse and men,wtgf slain, liotlcr aii«»ht#d from, hisand marshalled hip men, in order to defendthcin.sciviia. A, Ikscc contest oncued, and afew of.,the gi.-ots fellj* under tec strong arm offiie, captain. Beholding -this, Walkvc .. enragvn, *forgotf ids way through the throng attackedtin,: caption, and with, .bis trusty sword cut hiahead• in tv o pieces, and. laid the English ont he ground in all directions. tStcphcn of Ireland, *and the rest, were -not.wanting' in their duty ;fo that tueir captain, and threescore of theJvgltsi.i, hd'ing slain, the remainder lied with•ad hasto to the Gastle of Kinklevm.The ifevv who were left to defend the place,threw open the gate to receive their flyingCQinpanions. YVa. see followed so close, thathe.orut-his men mitered with them, seized the-*«stje,. shut the gate-, drew the bridge, and3* permit none to go out or to coftoe in,Jfcutiatwfciiag to his pleasure, ihe worneaamll.ohihwen- he saved, retained them for some«lh>.Wfc,f*ittd(tJ'.gn permitted, them to depart, withtwvii ejects as they chose to carry along with-Vuivi>ii them.( 25 )ttwtm. white he convened, during fivenigiits. ail the provisions ami necessaries wh'ckwere totlnd in the castle, to Short-wood Slniws;then a-bandoning the castle, he committed itto th?* flames, a!nd repaired to the wood forshelter against future danger.Tlie captain’s wife hastened to Perth, andinformed her son of the late of his father, thecapture of the cattle, and liar own misfortunes.The son. Sir Jdfm Bntier, stiing to the heartwith grief, and fired with indignation, coin-oandfed all the men in Perth and the vicinityto arm, and to repair to the wood, to takerevenge unon'W’allactJ and his, men, But suckwas the fame of Wallace, that though the/were a thousand strong, ypt many approachedthe wood with troubling hearts.Arrived at the vVood, Sir John Butler ar¬ranged Ins men in six divisions. v? uli five lieeucifcled the wood to prevent an escape andwith two hundred of his most faithful adherent#he entered the wood hi search of Wallace, \wi»had formed a fortress with trees, and such otlurmaterials as the place afforded, where he cou dissue forth into the plain, or retreat into ti ewood, as necessity required. Wallace ltdonly twenty archers, opposed to si vo scon fthe English archers, ^supported by three&coi*«f spearmen. He girded on his buckler, se'z ,ihis bow, which was so strong and large t. *no man but himself could bend it. and disci*kig an arrow slew one of the En dish an .4- terrible shower of arrow's way disci* *i l( 21 )amcfn" $dot£,.v.-hic?i galled tlienj.sore; btiiWallace pcr^*ivi»g this, .dwtr.gtd the.-positioaef his men, ai;d entplnj'ed his -whole prudence *and sli;cn; t! <o s.-ve thop. Inti copviuc.e<^that they were more deutrou*- at ,Uie 'sword,or spear, he v. as ca^tr to come to a close en* •gagement. bat was.»iraid ofixing ovorpg'.veri dwith'^uper.of nunaburs. \T length one of theLancashire bowmen, who. had fi •quently eyedWallace at an open, vh S'e lye came to observe«he motions of the eneniv. took his ann, struckhim through a collar of steel, upon tire leftside•f the neck, -and sl glitiy wounded him - ,Astonished and enraged, vVallace flew afterhim, severed his head from his body, and withhis men fell keen upon the English with swordsand spears, because their arrows wen exhausted.Wallace, witi* his men, thinnmd the,ranks ofthe English wherever they approached; but"William Lorn, a relation of.Butler, who had* been slain, coining with a reinforcement ofthree hundred ii.i n, Wallace addressed, hismen? saving, "thet t--e number of the Southretyswas so and w -re always increasing, thatthi id'ell’brts would prove fruitless, unless tlyey•ut' off the cIii^.L iusfantly. therefore, they*forced their way through' the oppiwang ranks,in quest of, the leaders, Wallace encounteredSir John. v.4h> having Jakgn sntlter b-hinda lar -c tree,, tie stiuck a brunch dead it ftp¥pon BtitUr. and hid hind qn t|^cig^yV.r,d —-Lorn imoh, also feit" the Wgig^t*yord; add the tuoe.t’ reycrb^j-gting yhropoli. ’ * tnd{ z* ) ■the ranks, that both commanders were slaia,the remaining leaders, with their troops,assembled at the sonth side of the wood, toconsult what was proper to be done in thepresent emergency. Meanwhile Wallace, tak¬ing advantage of this circumstance, rushed outat the north side, and led his men to a neigh¬bouring wood.Entering jShort-wood in search of Wallaceand his men, they found tUet they had fled;and they found the bodies of Butler and Lora,but their horses and gold were safe in thehands of the victorious Scots. Convinced,at last, that Wallace had escaped, the English,under the command of Sir Gerard Heron,returned to Perth with the news of their dis¬honourable and sad defeat. If the terror ofWallace was great before, this battle renderedit ten-tolfl greater.Wallace, with his heroic band, of whom fivehad fallen on that memorable day, shelteredand refreshed themselves in the neighbour-pig wood for two davs; they then returnedand conveyed their concealed property fromShort-wood to Methven-wond ; where theycither deemed that they wofild be in greatersafety, or sooner have another opportunity toattack the English. They soon after removedto Elcho Park, in the environs of Pertu.During their stay in this place, IVrdlace usedfrequently to go to the town, to receive intel¬ligence. or .discover the force of the enemy.—/Es disguise was usual!'.’ that rfg huus gown.,Seme( 23 )Some^persons had observed his repeated visite;his robdst and warlike appearance, and com¬municated their suspicions to the governor,Sir George Heron. The person whose househe used to frequen., was soon brought overto their favour, only by the most dreadfulthreats, or persuasive promises. On Uis nextvisit, the house of his friend.war, beset by the| English: he was immediately infwmed, and.in order to effect his escape, having dressedhimself in woman’s apparel, he went to informthe English of V/cJlace bejng safely locked upiii sudli a room; the enemy fLd to seize theirsupposed pray, while he was effecting his escapefrom the town with all possible speed. Twosoldiers followed, suspecting him as rather astrong and fierce-like woman : when he wasJ f.gfely out of reach, he turned upon them, drewhis concealed sword,levelled them with the dustand hastened to inform his companions of his•escape. Confident that the enraged enemy•woiljd sally forth immediately in quest of him,Jie prepared his intrepid band to meet the foe.The English, fired at their disappointment,marched six hundred men by the South Inchroad : they had not proceeded far. till the slainbodies of their two men presented themselvesto them, and confinqed them in their suspicion®of Wallace having taken this rout.They surrounded the wood wdth three hund-re*l, under Sir Gerard, while Sir John Butlerpenetrated into the wood in setirch of Wallace.They had with them a stench biood-bound. totrace-( 24 ) . . .trice tho jtisps of the slayer. The brave rew!,in «»n every side, resolved t<*conquer or to^dio; the hardv clrieftaiii nn-shewtheti liiis caanjisting sword, bese' ;1it theaid,of ’iienfcKju uarvd led his fb'iiowers' to"thefierce- attack. A retreat was : hnpradticable,and they were obliged to cut a way tkneng-their enemies, before they bold'd c!&ir thewoods. Fifteen if' the Scots were slain beforea passage w as offeoilttl;' tMy made, an ‘able*retreat, towawls die'hawks of the Tay, in orderto sepk a plac’d to brosS;’ many of his*' mencould not swim, and rather than lose one dropof Scottish blood nnrevengod, Wallace rosoiv .-dagain <to meet the foe. Notnuthstandihg hisinferiority'in.-tlife oimiber of his trobps, which,j;t the commencetner.t of the battle, ahtoufttcAonly to 4b an«l» thyse werd considerably dimi¬nished by the kitted and wounded, hd recom¬menced tlie combac, thoagli the enemy liadbeen strongly reiilfoi'ced.The armuis elosod with redoubled fury—Ifaiiace wished, a safe retreat for his brave men,who were now reduced to the ih}fiber of six¬teen; lie sought eVery-whcre for the Englishchief in order,to dismay the enemy by his fall;he-ho.v’iver. remained in a place of safety,with a strong, guard, unwilling to run thehazard of a combat. The reduced Scots nowescaped from the wearied English, and fled tothe nearest place «f safety. They were ogfcol sight Hejira tjre cneiyy were able to pursuethem; and tee English had en«e mot's recourse( 2 5 }to theirt!ooil»houad> which traced them witha speedy step. They were sotm atraiti in sijjhtoi each other, and the riving 6cots h<d twoof rising ground before tliey could reacha place of defence. • IVaJ.lace urged -on h's in*trepid followers, and gave' the example, byascending the hilf with firm and hasty steps.^\(ght .was fast approaching which filled thsKcuU with ,s.o good 'hope ■ it all followedthe example of their duett.tin, except onoFuwdon, tvljo, uharied u kli fatigue declan dhe whs unable to proceed. ILs companionsencouraged him to exert his strength, bat tono purpose. Fav. ilun had formerly been sit¬'s peeted of treason, and IVailucc (fid not lies it dato draw his sword, and putun enll to his exist*Vace. His followers unanimousiy coacurr-dtn the justice. of the act; and the cbielrhetiagain cheered his hantl, and ascended tlie hdi.The Enghsh advanced faster than they re¬treated, from the fieStncss of tlieir coursers,and the Scots, upon consideration, judged iemore expedient to disperse, as*.ne slain corpsoof I’awdon would stop their houndbesides*they were unable toa’isk another combat, cjitlby thus dispersing, they might retire home untilthey had raised reinforcements, and again baable to attack the enemy with advantage.Rierly and Stephen'concealed the motivesin a wood, eastward of Duplin, and as,thuEnglish approached the body of the slaintraitor, mingled with the throng; and aaSjr Georg.. Jderoa bywed, to examine, thaC cOrp'ie>iarpse, ICierfy struck a dagger In Ills heart,up iieidw liij ^rmiiur The cry of treason! wasiirimetliattMy roRouivdedi and in the confusion,aiddd by the darkness of the night, the intrepidSeo'smen escaped. A few remained withV/alhce, with whom he entered the wood, andthere remained during the night, secure fromthe pursuit of the hound, .having lost his scentin the stream of l^wdon’s blood.Upon the approach of morning, Wallaceissiitd out alone to breathe the cooling air.—.Pmsive with thought, but panting for revenge,he bewailed aloud the fate ofhis fallen country.Tito English leaddr, tempted by the beauty ofthe morning, was traversing the plain, whenhe heard the lamentations of Wallace. Ha*ode hastily towards him and demanded- whatw is lv»s business there ? His only answer waatho nn.vhmithipg of his sword, with which he,slew the English leader, mounted his horse,a id d -d across the plain.b.ane of the, soldiers, seeing him committhe deed, closely pursued, and. raised the cryE.>"'ist h'm. The roads v/ere soon1 every-where beset, and Wallace had to cut throughhis* way before he gained the road. He wasci'.jeiytpnrsusd, and, after slaying twenty ofthe enemy, be far outstripped them; at lasthis horat- fainted under him, and he was againconstrained to walk* In dread of meeting agreater number of the enemy, he changed hisroute arid-soon lost his way. Overgone withfyt ^ise, he arrived oa the bank# of the Forth;dauKl*( *7 )daii”tle*s lie plunged into the stream, thoughwearied and bleeding, and arrived at the np«posite bank, forlorn and dejected; after a longjourney, he arrived at the house of a widow,with w hom he was acquainted, ip the neigh¬bourhood of Torwood. in order to rest duringthe night, secure from the enemy, a bid was. formed in a thick part of the wood, djffieu.t ofaccess. The night being bold and h » limbswearied and chilled, he soon fell asleep, withthe widow’s two sons for his guards. He hadpreviously dispatched his hostess’ two daugh¬ters to seek out the followers he had left inithe wood where lie sjew' Butler, and to receiveintelligence of the enemy.Next day, he sent to his friends at Dunipacefor money, and some necessaries wmich h>' re¬quired. and his uncle immediately deliveredthem in person. It was not long before Kit riyand Stephen wt*a see^top,reaching their c. f-tain's covert with hasty strides. ( Hie im rt ngof these valiant f lends irmy be better imaginedthan described ; words were inadequate lo i x-press their feelings, and tears ?nd fond embracesalone could express their tirst emotions—Im¬patient to gather those faithful to his cause, hefixt-d upon the next day for his departure. ,His Httle hand, consisting of K:erly, Stephen,tlie widow’s two sons, and himself, bent theirway to iDundaff-hcath, the property of oneSir John Graham. This aged nobleman hadbee n obliged to own the power of the English,though avar friendly to his country's cause.—U 2 ThithsrTM thpr • ^Iwmircd, afwl "•rrc hr-' Wrcjitertainenb t'«r three tirtys. s «««,a brave arid hardy ■ yoatb, w-b'- hi<jsejV'ees, *.* * h sQ0)e-iUttetular..t< • theUUiepid lirflace. Con^eious t>t’ his late fit'iJSinltriua'iri^sd sruali a mniiber into,'arth».>, bedeelrtiel’. for. tbc |»ereti-t,. acv'ptinu the offers<»li (.>ni!i»n). t>ut •pvbmi-ed to send him infor-nHitiore wben'lie.hjrd.sjatlierod .sufficient strengtha^ain to fewe tbeieneniy.He ri^xt 'pto'Ceeded to his nephew’s, atR i 'Rnk, and thence^eot information thfough-*o)i the oovlntpy to Ijie numerous friends, whoqu^okly aflockad -urouml vheir chieftain, readyto ajwenae his Wrongs and save their bleedingcountry from the tyrant’s, grasp'. Among therosy was Blffr. famed in the held of literature,and who. yloimed the first plae« in our hero’s-breasts Ivdticaied together, their friendshipripened with manhood; and though unaccus-t«inoted to die art of war, Bkcr hurried t»support his friend'-in’this cffitlyal ntuution.Kvoi impatient to gain oyer friciKis to hiscause and reciive iftfommRon of tlte enemy,ihe.fretjuently repaigexl in disguise to. Loch*niaben, where one Clifford bore the ehiefrconi-DitfiMl with insolence and .cruelty. During oneof ht,s visits, lie .beheld the commamler usingbis authority witli a malicious intent to dis¬grace "liis countrymen. Enraged at the affront,be drew .his weif-tried sword, and plunged itinfo Clifford’s heart, 'j lie alarm was immedi¬ately spread, and the enemy at scniblcd to the? 29 )yursuit. He hastened to inform his Taliantfollowers of the ajip rOach of the enemy, andgave orders to leave* the plain, and hasten tothe nearest thickets. The enemy approachedthem quickly, and showers of arrows fell nroumithe hardy band. Hastening to gain their object,before they commenced the attack, Blair was■pounded by an arrow ; this was the signal foraftack; and Wallace, enraged at seeing hisfriend bleeding, turned in order' to Engage -The armies met with dreadful fury, and thevaliant Scots dealt destruction around: theEnglish, greatly reduced, were about to giveway, when strong reinforcements arrived underthe gallant Moreland. The 'Scots in vain at-'tempted to retire; close wedged in on evaryf t e, they resolved to conquer or to fall. TheEnglish, excited to greater courage at theappearance of their warlike leader renewedthe combat with equal fury. Wait dee rushedthrough the tumultuous Crowd, to meet thbhaughty foe. Moreland raged in the heiestcf the ecu bat, and dealt terror around him;the Scottish chieftain boldly engaged and-laidhim prostrate on the field. The en.rnv. thifsdeprived of their leader, gave way on everyside, and fled before the victorious ShO’-' Wifpsmband remained entire, except a fiw wbo hrdbeen wounded. Scarcely bad fbe\ db’olala moment of congratulation when the cri’tWagain appeared under the haligbtj Giafstoclf,The Scots, though wearied with'the Intq con¬test, remamed unshaken-, and prepared agaftiC 3 fur> V ^for -iKs. attack. At this evonjtful nio'.-ncn?:,you^ig Graham appeared with an,armed rot.noeto support his ; i’he attack immediatelyto-iirneneed and the Scots, with three shouts,nished upon the enemy :. Each in himself a war, an arrays force.The English were repulsed with dreadf.ilpVaughter, atul fled before the thrice lco»(pu*i-■tag hand. Graham was the foremost in tiis* pursu t. twid, to reivler the victory complete,n»t lekcd the .fingiish leader, and numberedh;m with tjre slam. The loss of the EnglishWas irnmpnsfe.i'he pursuit finished. ?. council of war wasimmediately summoned, when, after d•.libera¬tion, they agreed to attack the town duriptfthe night. When it was proposed to theirfollowers, thev slgudicd tT h approbation bythe loudest'lien‘lac..cions. fhey marched hithe dead of the night, and attacked and tooktire town .without opposition. After refresh¬ment, they reduced the fort, and took theirroutu towards the castle of Grow ford ; which,after slaving » great number of. the enemy,among whom was thegovernor, they took, andreduced it to ashes.'After several inconsiderable skirmishes, the. little army dispersed for die winter, and agreedto rbp; «■ nnknbvvtj to Lanark and its neigh¬bourhood, arid to prss.c in'olc art a certain signalfrom -their chieftain, / i cl lace immediately pro-Cvcttt-U UrLttUtH'k to visit his intended bride,fi r whom ho had foimtth-. a phrtiaij'y.c wkiie^iu disguise, he visited the dihoifent toAvns. oiiXgathered th t»Sfe Jav.o.urable I to his cdnse: an«<Ntgthese uere Juijvtv.o hrothein. .Mhojvojunteeretl,and fell under the valiant. WaJJiKV. He wasreceived with .the most anient afi'ectiou. and,after recoufifih'g Ids hiahy-ctangel-s 'and h®.d-r. on victories, she rousedi»tew(fisfs-irf his.rtianlybreast, in relating the brutal mid. di cyitfal aVisoflicsilrig, the Enolislt leader to.fe^a.lier.-*—Wallace >>id bis lovely hride were «oo» HKiitedid th» banrlfl of matii'mont, and lived till iiig. spring of ariiitlex vent, enjoyiitg all .tire sweetsof conjugal a (lection, iresiirig .frequently vf-pcated his umvelcom^ v-iaits;: but fr«#i theartful address of Wallace^ nlto renHdned.dk>.puked, was generally, outv. rtteri .tind disgraced.Out would ttc.resolve to free hinaseif from saoha plague, but the danger of rousing the eoenrgbefore his followers were assembled, as offeuinduced him to delay the fatal blow .The time was now arrived w hen his faithfulfollowers anxiously Watched the appointedsignal, to assemble roam! their chieftain, andagainjJefend their bleeding country from thetyrant foe. His faithful Wife often urged himto let her share with him thy' dangers of thefield, where she wotiid remain sale from thebrutal desires of Hesilrhy and whert she wouldhave the felicity- ofr shot King her wearied lord,when fatigued with the toils of the field. Heprudently declined* but infomed her he hgdprepared a chosen bund to ssuidv.et her to a- . plape< 3* )p!aee of fafety. w n ver fhe commanded ;and after a molt afl e\i g fare ell. he pro-•ecoed to h plain. a» ih morn daried herra s along tne dnlant ea* . Choofing an•levated ihuaii-m the icighry Chieftainrailed his Horn, and ble^v a llirtii ola'i thatrent, the ah, and made hiu« rctmmd!—Hir followers immediately fl icked around;and. afur a iiiort ba' impieflive adarefsfrom their-leader, they alarmed the enemytvith >heir fh ut», and l-.vore to fodo'v ^hcimm. ml VVaiiace. 1'hi trudv band b attheir way xo,\a:ds Canlane-height. there¬to remain ttte remainder of the day, andtva^ch the mo inns of the enemy.tlefurig, alarmed at theie fudden prepa¬ration*, imrn.diateiy at mtd a th ufand wellelad warrior*, ai d marched in cfutlt of thedarir.g f>e Dnappointed in the purfuit,he returned to the town, where he receivedinformation, that Sir William had beenconcealed under the roof of the woman,whom he had I; ngde(ircd,for ievera! months,and that the lathe was now his lawful wife.He intlan’ly te aired to the houfe, wherehe found the objcdl of hi» vei geance clofedin he arms of retf. Dreadful dreams haddllturbed her repofe. and. to complete herho- ror, (he w a awoke irh '.he hoarie voiceof her hateu enemy. He nvfuited her inthe grolfeU »anner j tears, kneeling- en-* treaties^trsa'^et, a!! were in va’n ; the villain was.rrlolvitd, and rained his hard with herindecent bleed;j he rv urnful tiding* foon reached thej r.triot banc, and for a tnorr . E ovc rv helmedthem with lorrow. SirWtiUa-m, af cr «hehad recovered from th^ finl pa’! g adcreffvdhis followers; A p et, «h rc efibe tt-)*fcetie wi^h livt;!v en;-rgy, proceed to v,;.ii;tthe hero encouraging his men, ai f. ildws;V-This w ade of tears ala? 1 he cried is vaia,M- r can rccal the fleeting II ace rsa n ;Cuuld that vain thought afh rd the itad relef,H' w would I mour-n! b,tu impotent i grief;n hen let thole tear; to war s rough toilsgive way.And the fi ce I word perform v, hat v. otdwould fay.Hear me, brave Gtanam, companion of myarms, - ' .Whofc foyl a ike it fir'd with glory’s charms,T o thee 1 in tar thtslwoui 1 ii never ftieatb,'’ 1 ill I revenge mv deareit. oeateit * dca. h.Heavens 1 what new toils cf death and v. arreman 1nivers of floating blood, ar.d tiiilj of da<n !But iteePd with rage t< 11:lighter let tu fly.And. f. r' i e; lake, the- e fiinli ten i h U'anef Jit.When men thus weep, their com age glows• the lei's ireIt flacks the ire of wrong they Wiru!d redreli.Bu let us haite. '■ hiie ye: t1 e dulkv n gh|Extends hat fritndly ihane, and dro- n»the infan night.HU faithful foilo'ver* immad'ateiv armed,and prepared t > ma ch ! hey arrived atthe town ■> itiiout. bt h £ difeavrred andfepara ing into two oivition^. atrjuiked thetown in d ffvri nt parts. I he en<.roy weefa Jlcep, ana j idged themielves lecurew.t n to irboiten gate . Our hero, 'henhe reach u the gate, laiwo a la ge ftone,and bur it* bolt* a under ; the Scot*rufhed in;, na oealt uea'h around theirterr,.! ■ tiucx nemies hi’ J >■ n Graham,who comma ueu the ftC *nd giv iiot ,enteredby anoth-r pa^t. and c mmit id tne d ei-lings ot ;hc Eng.dh tr theflin-cs. W al ace,panting for levtnge rullied furioully n ! isbrutal foe. and laid mm prottra ewi.h thsground. Horn the fee nd in cnmina! d,Jikewife 1.1 a v.cliin o the gallant Ore. am.The Engniit leader* flain, v ith hunmed* oftheir m.-n, nec t quenT* reduijfU the town;end aft. r lome teif eftnnent. and luppl\ingthemieives vtrth whatever n«ceflar<es theytoood in want ”f. retircu fr- ru the field orCarnage, and encamped wo a neighbouringplain.Thfel'c( 3 .5 )Thefe fignal fucceise*. fheviated ihe Kng"sh routed the Sc-r t jli ■ atio»t<» mv)re aftive > x rtiuti; and th'-a rnv underWalace (V-un made am*' ap¬pearance. Ed . ara king o? E g’aind alarmedi at ‘he 1 uccef* if the f a riot?, c dleftid a nu-i nyr'us array and * ej aired to IJiggar inorcer;i to g; • e them battle.I! heSc ’ttnharmy.now'greafly augmented,fet out v r.h c rfi tnce to meet the f e f heenemy xere encamped nn a wide expendedplain and Wa lace :ook an ad vantage, us po-fi-i m on a neighboring height. I'hev ap¬peared bdta handful c impa> ed > rht Ej'igl’flt.The gallant chlrftian andr fT d his tiultyff'tencla and by-painting the 'rjiiries ot tiieirill-fated countrv. ercouraged them to feelcredref u on iheamhorof allth'rircalamitiea,who ftond before them, encircled’ with hi«hahghty troops.The Sc ' tidi army- haPencd to the heightthat overl -oked ti>e enemy c mp, aid de--fc ikI d 'i'h awful imj eturTj upon theafVonilhedEngi th. 1 heet;em\ formed thim-felve; -noj a ci Cie. and rtchived he Scot*wi'h a Uea<lv fr nt. 1 heir ranks ete loonbroke, and Wa act rtidieci into the rricill ofthem anu !'■ ught he haugd’v Eo ai d K erlyand Stef hi« cloieiy fol.ov.is, and tu theirwa to-a d the n .al camp. '.fee enemyfloo^d hither, act made a doipeiate refill.ar.ee.#fft»ce. * Thc-P'jkc of K nt in nnr>fh''r quar¬ter. deal? deif; ufHon a nid ;he liard'. Seots.AH tnat.Sir J )hn Graham could au.mpt tenra lv iiem, aa in vain , they^gi.vv w ay andretreaded bel' t'e the power of the cn my«■ Wa iace, 'b erving h’.s band ditperfed has-?• n d'o’h i relief, an3 attacked t hi valiantKc t. V'clyrv f.o a whilf feemev* dou'e fufon », hich to perch a d he tumi>lt of v arl’eem*:d fu :'elided in the event of the fjfious•oniq .f. • Jt as long and keenly contelted;bu ur hero,turning exal’perated with delay,raifed a. pond rout' bio >, and tuprived thegnemy of hii Ihield-arm. 1'iie cnn'« It aseo long r doubtful, and the b a t of ih ii.t gnidarmy •.< as ni'bercd with the Haiti.- Thu > ventfut Ci mbot finithed, the Seot*^rufhed on with redoubled vigour, and theefnemy, iti their turR, gave v ay on evi r\ fide.A dreadful haVock immediaiely took p.aec,and, as the poet lia^ expr fkd it,{* A faife ufurper funk in every fee,“ And liberty returned with e very biow.,>The K,ng tried in vain to rally his flyirg.iroops; he exhibited gtea^ perional courage,l>ut at la!t j lined with hi* troops in theretreat: The Duke of Longcaltle, havingreceived information tha; the conquerorsjiad drunk profutely cf the Drg ilh wine,eilti would nav, jxcaae an aaly jutcy, mace%( 37 )a fiicc^fiful "'.t;err.pt to feur.ite 13a (Iiror'«dered troop?, and marched again to facethe enemy. The Scott dll out-poda foot*gave the alarm, and the naightv- chieftaiable v his fli-ill horn and afTembled his tra .yfoldiers. 1’hev had only taken nectffaryr'eCreflimien* t which raifed their fpirits antibetter enabled ihem to renew the contetd.A. ma fh nn ,v only divid d the two armies 5the D ike imptr lent for the battle, rufhedor ;fin'd hundreds, who fallowed were entangledin the m ir.hy ground. Longcallle and fom&followers, however, ez'rieated themfe!,**-%and reached the {'olid ground. No {'o .-ner-ava? he arrived, than the gallant G a'iarawe'eamed him to the combat. Fierce wasthe c mtell, but victory decided in tavor ofthe gallant Scotfmeh {'heir leaders being{lain, the ,FV.gii:h agiin retreaded, andefcaped to carry the mournful tidings tothetr king, ^ h > retired with the remainsof his army to king a id.'Torn >ut with def.-ati, end driven fromdmoft every ^?ong putt in vie kingdom, theKnghfii u d for p-'ace; which vas conclnd, dat ilatnerglen-Church, in February 1297.hit the Enghth were fo llrnngl, ocnCupon the c'onqfed of Scotland and -thewrational antm fity, g-eatly a gmented byrecent injuries, was too inveterate topei mita long duration of peace.D( 38 )Wallace wa* now in future to adt atnor ? c nlpicuou* part Hi* w< nden u*trsploits foon attradled general attention,and. ini'pired many to haza& their live*with hiin in the caufe of their cou1. try.—■At the head of thefe, he perf Tmed fuehcf valour, as pofterity ha* contemplatedv. ith fmgular aftonKhment. He would fre¬quently fat lv out of hi' lurking piaces andwi'h an handful of men defeat multitudes.^K:* perfona! llreng h was extraordinary,bar he vc 'nfiied more in llratagem. Expc-di.'.- us and indefatigable, cautious yet un¬daunted- he eluded the purfuit of'his ene¬mies ; and never expofed himfeifto number*,but when certain to fruffrate their endeav-ou'-s. if net to triumph in their dellruftion.Jn June 1:197. the Kugiifh pTbclaimeda Ju.ticeaire to be held in the town of Ayr;arid many of the gentlemen in the neigh-b urhood attended: feveral of whom wereaceufed of felonv, condemned, and executed.Among, thefe were, Sir Konald Craw ford,Shet fF of A\r, ,and uncle to Wallace;Sir. iJrvce Blair,’Sir \reil M n-g .faery andkH’o, the baren's of Kbyte. 'Cunninghame,Garrick;' and Clvdesdale. Thole who had•odthnatelv efcaped, informed Wal ace of thi*xireadful cafa.R.rophe. w'hb,( w’th hi* uiualin- re’-'idj'.y and cju cknels affert-bled fifty o£ids tbilo (Vet'S; eutcjcd Ayr in the night,and( 39 ) *?"(’ fec’-f't'iv fe-t firi to the places where;many of the h.ngnll! u tre all-.ep, ihq^ar-riion iffuing forth, feil into an am buffi andwere put to the i’word. The fort'w.as tin-mediately feiqt d by Wallace ana hi* men.He mltan ly ina^chtd to Hlalgow, the capitalof the Wed, attacked Lord Percy himieJLcoihnleieiy routed his forces, and Ihovve*him tha be v,as now as happy to fee hisLordihip. as *his fix armed men weie fodemand his filh at the water of Irvine.—H ere, though Lord Percy difdained to re¬venge the quarrel of hx arti'ed horlV tenagamft one fi hing-fportlfnan, yet, "Wai-acedid' not forget to make Percy pay hi> buifor the fifh.The followers of Wallace toon acquiredthe appearance of an army, ana leverai ofthe noble* of the land joineu him. Among,others, II bert, the Bilhop of Glal’eow,Robert H-ruce, Earl of Garrick, James,Lord Stewart of Scotland. Sir J din Stewart,his brother, Sir Andre w Mm ; ay tf 15c,th-well. Sir William D ug.as, formerly gover¬nor oc Berwick, and R bert Bo\a. TooppoTe their progreis, Edward km ar armyof 40,coo, who met the Scottifii airny en¬camped at Irvine, protected b\ a ake in,toe front, and emrenchmerfr* on the flanks.This brave little ainiy was, unaer the com¬mand of thd Bifliop of Giaigow, W illiam( 4<? )faougffas, Andrew JV/urrav, and WUliatnWa loce ; £ r they were not vet d fpo*edto give tho chief command to. our,hero, andthev wert^&Uc gieath divided in lerumenrs;therefore, nduad >F engaging the tr.giifh,thi y see immooated tha,trer» ant received&: md mnit' tor pail offe r ces. 'I he tie^ch-tr u- Kngiiih. however, ni t\*ithltan<5ii g theag1 "tmevu, c nfined the B fliop co the Cailic<5» R xbu.gh, and Sir William 1) ug.as tothe Gallic of Berwick.The bra> e foul of Wallace would neverpe. ' him to c mprou ite v ah the Ei g lh»tinteis from prudence; prevented from q iar-teiing with rh le of higher r ank, therefore,lie ft U U' ,n the r ar t i their arm\ w hilerc'rea ing ihiough Ga lov ay ieized ihtirbaggage undab u j.00 men v-ho'ji uarded i(.i'o give liabtiitv anu energy to their mili-tarv move:ntn;». he was now ehol'ti Captain<; reral of the armv. am Guaidian ot the£ gen m in the panic o-i K ng J h.u '* hr mtire nation at that time ackiw w engt-d astheii la tu S vtreign. 1 ht future concuftof Wallace manifeUed,- that he wa;- neitherungrateful lor the hi m ur conferred u^cnhim nor unfaithful to the tru.i. rejdledin huh.Biafed in a Command that epahied liirvito give unit) aid vigour to the my" i|ilattempts to jxicutf bcoiiand irem the hai>o»ofct the Enelinr, he mnrched to Stirling, andWok the cattle, from thence advanced toArgy.ie and. Lorn and quickiy ncovesedthat adjacent country. He next marched -V. Per h took that place, ard recovered atlthe neighbouring place*. He hkewile pene¬trated into Angus anu Meats*; took'anddem'diliicd the cables of torfar,- Brechin,and Montrole,' that he might not leflen hisq; m\ by leavi- g garrilnons in them./ He aliotftok the caille of Dunnoter b\ lu prife, ar d,on accountof its importance, he garrdonee it.When he approached Aberdeen, it was a,l infl rmec, the ii.' giiih haying' let fire to it, andfled, into the cnedel.i. he cattle of Dundee was the only place,north ot the lay, which withUood the a-msof Wallace. While befieging this forJ, hereceived intelligence of the approach of theHngUlh anhy, commanded:b jo in, Eui ofSurrey, and Sir Hugh Crefiingham, at d re¬inforced by a great numbti of rib.affectedScotlmen; the vihoie army coi fii.u gs.bout 40000. Determined to attack the1 ngnih -army in no place but one of hi* own.iel-fting, having commandeo^he inhabitantsof Dundee, upon pain of death, to profecutethe liege of the caltie, he inliantly marchedwith hi* army towards Stirling, and on-camped iit an advantageous place, upqn a hillabov? the Modaitery ■£ Cambulkenneth, ouD 3 ' the(40fh*. north fide cf the R'orth. This riverkaa ni5 ' ufiliDie ford, at this place, and the:rrly pafltge wat by a v.ocdln bridge in the'viCrw.y fStiriirg.’ he Et-g!ifh army were encamped on tha?odth . f tiit ris er, in the vie • of the Seo s;And then genera *, dtlitous to prevert ' ».aiheddiug fbiood f^rt' w Dominican, hriatito VVaslace. '• i .h‘overtures . f acconmioaa-tvan. j heir terms wfve, however degrati-irg ard inia tit g in the laU degree, both tothe honour ajci independence oi the Scotiilhnation; therefore, rej.ee 4 with becomingdbuattn To thel’e hi y arhbaflador*. theb ave VVa iace replied.4*Gd ieil your • flieersthat nc Sc ts cam. not to this place t t'uefor peace ; .that they w ere ready to figlit ;anti » hen attacked, they would evince withtheir i'words tiiat titeir country was tnde-perdent and free. Let them but advance,end to their fpcss we’il Cell them io much.”his aniv er gtea’dv irritated tlte Englifiigenerals, and. del'piiing I'uch an hariotul ofmen, they exciaimed " I'lics are all ourov n, et u- ic.i’antlv charge, them.”Lundy, a Sc#t:'man who bad left the armyof Wallace i*t con -quence of the ddagree-tnent am- ng the Scots commanders at Irvine,c- nvinc-d* ha Wallace was too prudent tohaaard a battle *,;th- ;uch luperior force,kiUmat iiayiitg previoulL conceited mea-' . * fbre*( 43 )fare* to ’counterbalance the inequalitynumbers*, violently oppoi'ed this rd’ luti’ n,CrefTmgii;am,lLdward’s reafurerfoi ScatTard,vas eager to engage, and told Surrey ‘hatthere as no time for delay ; and that hssc u!d net be anfv erabie *o v\afle the king’streafure without ■ fFefting fomethir g decifivqin his C'au'ftf. His arguments prevailed, andSurrey gave o;der-s to attack.But Lundv had given prudent counfel;tVjJc >.vovdin b"ic'ge thrown over the Korin,,;the only pt-fiibie way by which the EhglilU.army could approach the Scots, was bothfeebe and narro\' ; and the carpenter, v. hoa • tie before had been employed to repair it,by the exprels ncfire ot Wailacc' had cut;tjic chief beams of it half through?* arid iorc'dered it incapable of iupporting a greateight.Ignorant of this, Surrey gavertiers to march along the bridge ; andir Marmaduk« Twenge. diltvnguiflied forvalour and refolu:ion. led the van, arid boldlyAdvanced to the foot of the hill on which tneScots were drawn up in order of battle.—•Wallace remained in his Uauon,' and evenretreated as Martnaduke advanced. TheFu giifh c -mniander, luppi fing that they iledat hi appnachf purlued tvith alacrity ardvig ur,-but boon dilo vered, with fur-prjfe,that there -a ar not a Ifandard of his country¬men in his rct.r. Meany.-hile, though lbm«'«( 44 ) 'of the Scots'feemed co fly before hiinv t*!ebu k t the arm\. havtng'takei^ an utui.e-qo i ea toad, co.nplet.ly intercepted hi*r& rt;nr ; htch a now rendered tiill moreimpoffio e by the bridge having been brokend iWii oy the . eigot of fo mam armed men,and nultnudd. -a ere drowned in the river.' Kxci pt Sir ‘Mormaduke, and a fe w whothadr- their ei’eape by. 1'vimining jhe Forth,ah :he Fngiiih who had err fled, to the num¬ber of hx -or ,ievcn thoul&nd, were put tothe i word.Daring this awful difafler, Surrey floodon the touth fide of tHe river, and had thegat.i g mirtiflcati n to behold hit rseaflaughtered in' thouiands, or perifliing amongthe ays, without having.it in hit powerto afford them the fmalleft re ief. WhenMi irinaduke joined Sutr-.y, he advifed t1 fet on fire the remaining par' of the hi icig.to prevent ^he viclorious Scots from j ufuing and harafli g the Englilh army* Bdtthis. ex[iedient was of Imal! advantage, forthe great Stewart of , Scotland, aid theatari of Leunox, having prevroufl) poiiedthcmielve* in an ambulii net far from theEdgliih, ruflied from bcjiind the m^uniains,and charging the Earl, pai him to fl ghr,and purfued his army with lyih alacrity,that with difficulty he efcaped lo Berwick.ISnghlii hilforian* themielvc* inform us,tliaiir:n j4( 45 )that Surrey’s horle was fo waft d with,running, that when put into the liable heCaul a not eat.in thu glorious battle fo dhalbn u tothe iinglifli armv. -Sir Andrew Murray v aJthe only Scotlrnan cf dhUr.ftion thaf fell;bad many it the hh:g! Hi coin« anders.wexoildin, among w hom was 1’realuret Crt-fi g-ham, who. by his Qjrprefiion "and cruelty,V-a# fo abhor,red ty .the Scot:-, 'nat cii c >-verirg his ocdy amorg the Uain, the) fltudoil his Ikin. and cutting it in. imall j itCcs,di\’iued it among them tel ves not topeltrvees pr.clous relics but t© (hew in delilitiifcto their fiiends and country meinIbis victory was fo complete, and foimportant in its Confoquences. th.at n® ■Engliflinrao durit remain rn Scot ladeand "t.io.e Scots who had deferted to the Et gl :h,lubnaitted to V.‘aikce, and h-aih d him asthe deliverer of their cdumrv. lh r * ids'and Roxburgh alone refilled, but ben g lotu!. dc.erticl by their garrilon*. they alio threwopen their gate* to our vie various hero.—•In this manner i in the hr ail. Ipaco of iotr*teen months after Kn.g J :hn , hati beendcuofed, 1 is .kingdom luWu< d. ana c ,u-ftrained to adknov. icdgej, a foreign prince,did Wallace, wijh a i ^ brave n^en. ref oretnc nation to her ancient libertv ana in-t>^enuenct, vvlia bcioia that period was au. dbivuXw( 46 )•bscure prirate gentleman' unaccu^tomefl tomartial adventure^, and unprovided of eithermoney or arms, but those he took from theenemy. 'Though the spoil of the battle of Stirlingwas very" considerable, yet such numerousarmies had been ranging every quarter of thekingdom, that a general famine seemed umavctthible.- To prevent the impending calamity,the guardian commanded ail who were capableof bearing-arms to join him alternately, at cer¬tain times and places; and caused a gibbet tobe erected* it} every town and village, .for theimmediate execution of those ftiio. either de¬serted their colours, or refused to repair tothe army when required.>ie divided the kingdom into districts, andsub-divided these in such a manner, that hecould dfaw out all the men contained in themat’pi- isure, of whom be had a correct list ofa i b tween sixteen and sixty. The men thusmustered were formed into regiments, withproper officers, distinguished more by meritthan rank of life. Having arranged all hisdomestic places, aiul appointed Andrew Mur¬ray, surnamed* the Noble, son; of the lateAndrew Murray, who fell in the battle atStir! hg, comma ider under himself, he enteredEngland in his turn. » } *-Marpied by his name and approach, tireinhabitants of Nort' tyiberlami fhd, with theirfamilies and property, to Newcastle, leavingthe country defenceless. Upon this, Wallacehalted,V < '( 47 )L.ilted, or rather seemed to retreat. Observingthis, the country people returned to theirhouses, and were all surprised by parties ofthe Scottish army, ^who ravaged the" wholecountry between Tyne and Derv^nt for th?space of twenty three days. A body of Ireshtroops rea'ehipg the borders, some-of the formerwere sect home to their friends, loaded withthe spoils of their enemies.Marching to Carlisle, Wallace summonedthe city to surrender, but refusing, be wasconstrained to desist, for the want of batteriny:engines, imd turned his attacks upon Borland,Alierdale, and the epuatry as far as Cocker-xnouth. sVVallacc has b?en charged by the Englishwith exercising the greatest cruelties to men,women, 'childreiiyand pven priests. This chargeis however fallacious, and the clemency of our 'Rero appears conspicuous, in those letters ofprotection given to the religious houses To gratify tiie curious reader, the followingone is inserted.i _ 3“ William Wallace and \ndrew Murray,in the name of the illustri.-is Prince John, bythe grace of God, King of Scotland, and withconsentof the •community offhe said kingdomof Scotland, to all the subjects thereof to whomthese Letters may come, Greeting—Know, thatin the name ob the said Kingj we have takeninto his protection the Prior and Convent oflixseldeshaiu iu Northumberland, their lands,men,''( 4? )won, pow^fsions. and goods.'moveable and ua-mnvg.ible: Wherefore we'strictly forbid yoato ■>) any hurt, mischief, or injury whatever,tr- their persons, lands, or gaols, under paina; ' forfeiture of your own goods and estatesto the King • or la kill any of them, under paino- death. And we wi 11, that these Letters bein force for a whole year, and no lo '.rer.—Given at Ex. scales ham, 7th of November.”Tbe army next marched towards Newcastle*fend when passing the village of Kyton, theinhabitants, confident of the impossibility ofattacking them, becru.e their Village was al¬most surrounded v, ith water, insulted tlio Scotswith opprobrious language,, anil \iade tae;»Ibe objects.of their derision. But this was toomuch to suffer with impunity. IVallace smlbis men passed through the water and set fireto their village. Filled ,vith the greatest con¬sternation, the terrified inhabitf ts fled witiiprecipitation; and the dread soon became souniversal, that none ventured to appear in thgfields. The cities of Durham and Newcastle,- however, defended themselves, and IVaBccr,not deeming it prudent to besiege them at thatseason of the year, returned horns?, having«btained much glory to bis countrymen, anddistinguished lustre to the Scottish arms.The fame of Wallace, ancFhia splendid vic¬tories, attracted the attention of the courts ofFrance and Enyland, and becaifie the subjectsff general conversation. Fail ip the Fair, of-France,%{ 49 )JVance, rejoiced at hi§ victories: batwlio esteemed Wallace as hia inferior iti tlie artof war, observed thetu with decided and in¬vidious displeasure. He accordingly hastened,to conclude a peace with Philip, and wro&from Flanders to !)is s.ra, requesting him tosummofi a council of t!ie nobility and to grantthem all their request^- in order tliat they mightunite in a \igmous war against Scotland)—The nobles accordingly assembled, «n<'. agreedthat a large* army should be instantly raised,and that in eight days-ail their forces shouldmeet at Newcastle.This airny consisting of rout thousand, fivehundred'cavalry, and more th.n a hundredthousand infantry, marched to Scotland, tookpossession of Berwick, and proceeded to Rox¬burgh. Here they received orders from KingEdward to stop, till having settled his affairsin Fianders, lie should come home himself andput an end to the rebellion in. Scotland.—The former disasters of the English, throughthe prudence and valour of Wallace, renderedthis a necessary step in Edward.Upon bis arriv;^ in England, he sent lettersto Wallace, fraught with insult and* abuse.—Informing him, that he durst neither have at¬tempted a revolt in' Scotland, nor an invasionin England, if lie himself had been in the island;but that he would now chastise him for his in¬solent behaviour. Wallace received Edward'smessenger ith that dignity which became himas guardian of Scotland; and replied, that heE had( 50 ) 'kul more rear’-on 10 t ike the advantage (JPEdward’s absence, to deliver his country fromservitude, than he, of the division' of a free andindependent people to enslave them: he added,that he had invaded England to repay the in¬juries done to Scotland; thst he meant to keephis Easter in ^le same country, and he invitedhis. Highness to that feast. Wallace performedbis promise.Edw.r h with a mighty army of fifteen hund¬red cavalry, and twenty thousand infantry,marched against Wajlace With his usual in¬trepidity, he collected his chosen troops,rallied,and, net far from Stamnpre, came in view ofthe mighty monarch.The army of Edward appeared iricrediblynumerous ; the armour of the sqldie-rs glittering,- the equipage of the officers rich and elegant,the sound of their trumpets, and the noise oftheir drums, pompous and terrible! Such,however, was the ardour and bravery of theScottish youth, that many of them solicitedleave to go a-pickering, to merit golden spurs.But W allace issued a proclamation, command¬ing all. upon pain of death, to keep their ranks;to march Vith gravity, and to attempt nothingwithout his orders.Edward observed, and admired the order,discipline, and formidable appearance of theenemy h'e had been accustomed to despise.-—With astonishment and grief, he now perceivedthat the men with whom he had to encounter,erted with suOord&aUaanud cvpcert 7 and that' '• ( 51 ^fiheir leader' were corrplete^y versant in 'Jie art®f war. The comparison ol his own army wit'.i ,this, augmented Ins vexation. His veteran andexperienced soldiers, were not arrived frontFlanders; therefore lie deeraed.it tinwisi-; tohazard his pwn glory, the forfeiture of h.s ciainito the crov, n of Scotland, anu t!ie lives of hisnobles, with an undisciplined militia, againsta small, but resistless army in which everyefficer, and every man, acted the part of a hero.Edward, therefore, wisely retreated; andWallace, to prevent a general engagement,restrained his men from pursuing. He pref-iibited any man to move from his ranks, and -told his followers that thet had done enoughwhen they stood their ground, and kept themCountenances, in the presence of such a power,which, one would have thought, .was able tohave swallowed them up ; that this was, in effect,a victory, and. so much the more glorious, thatthey had gained it without drawing thuirswords.This speech being circulated through thearmy, had an agreeable influence upon all theirminds. The officers alighted from their horses,and, together with the whole army prosU*‘.te(lthemselves ; and, according to the religion andcustom of that period, they .sung the pumsesof St. Andrew, the patron of_ Scotland, andreturned thryiks to St.Cuthbert, on whose fee. t,'and, in some measure, hy whose intercession,they attributed their enurepo having beenloused, and tlieii; enemies put. to flight. ■E2 Tfcfff( 52 )The glory o£ Wallace now shope in all ittmeri.’.ian splendor. By his numerous a>iu signal;victories ami military achievements, he wasbecome the admiration of Europe, the terrorot'England, and the darling of his countrymen.„ But, in-proportion to his native merit and ac¬quired greatness, he became the object of envy,jealousy, an'| dread, to the nobility in Scotland.With singular meanness of soul', they consideredthe just prtbses that were lavisited upon him,as an indirect relEction cast upon them, whoeither cou d not, or would nut,, imitate his' conduct. They reasoned with themselves, thatif a private person, a yonnger brother, of nomjof the most opulent fiimiiies in thet kingdom,destitute of eyery assistance, but courage tohazard; and wisdom J,o contrive, had taken inhand the work which properly belonged to them,and effected it so completely amt so success-fully, that now he was become their superior;4 what might he not be tempted to achieve, andwhither might not fortune carry a man of hisspirit. In particular, John Camming of Bade*noch, and Robert Bruce, Earl of Garrick, bothof aspiring dispositions, and of die blood-royal,r. ere Suspicious that Wallace wou’d usurp theroyal sovereignty, and seize the erbwn; towhich they had- a just and legal claim.  impelled by t.Ifese misttikcn motives? the oneopenly revolted ro the e-nemv, and the other,thoug h he conCinu’ed with Wallace, actccha veryIceble'part,Tho. 'v • .*:r 5"? )a • ■ »'fte pol'tltf'EcI^.'ijrd impraved these ("Kscea*fents to bis pwn advantage. 13} his emissarieshe excited the leading men in (inllowav torevolt in hi? favour, and two of his gen nilsmade a descent upon Fife. Informed of this,Wallace overtook them at the spacious andbeautiful forest of Hiackironside, and killed,or took prisoners, fifteen hundred and eightyof their men. In this battle tie lost very fewof his men and none of his officers ; out thevaliant Duncan Balfour, Sheriff of Fife, andthe gallant Sir John Gral *m, were.wounded.This defeat did not. however, prevent thoEnglish from harassing several other partsduring that summer. Wallace routed themin three engagements at l\ rtl}; and to annoythem, was constrained to destroy the bridge.In one of these, Sir John Withrington, theircommander, with ma «y more, were drownedin the river. • Da. mg the period that Wallacev/as thus employed in the Jcntre of the kingdom,the English, and the rebels in Galloway, hadseized upon some places in the south and west.Wallace and his army marched to repel thoEnglish and punish the rebels; anti havingreceived intelligence that they were stationedat Ayr, they advanced ir. the night, with a partyof five hundred men, and setfre to the barnswhere tire soldiers weie asleep, and such asescaped the flames,‘perished by the swords ofthe Scots. . "•4‘ Thus;E3“ Thus, says Fordim, did Scotland, by theWotidert'u! conduct and vigilance of its guardian,enjoy peace »n the midst of war, and the people,'guarded by repeated victories over their ciVe-mtes, securely estivated the formerty neglectedsoil, and dispers. »* plenty over the land; while,-.at the same time, the more powerful nobles,inebriated with envy and jealousy, outwardlyprofessed all the -gratitude that was due to theadmired achievements of their deliverer, butsecretly conspired Ids ruin; and in order toeffect this, caused rumours to be spread abroad,intimating that he d signed to usurp the crown;and that h an usurper must reign, a great andmigh*." monarch -though a foreigner, was pre¬ferable to an tur t u-t of yesterday.”The fatal eg* cts of lii-.«e envious contentionsupr >. the general good, oah easily Ik* parce; .''Tiie veteran ar.-n winch Kdward had m I-lan¬ders, w; -.returned, and strengthened by allthe forces that England, Ireland, and Walescould produce. To rentier himself the moreformid^lfie,' Edward had amply gratified thewishes of his nobles, so that they marchedwith him against the Scots both with alacrityand courage. When Ids army was musteredat Roxburgh, it amounted to three thousandselect horsemen-, and about eighty thousand,foot. To oppose this mighty force, Wallacehad not above thirty thousand, both horse*and foot; but ip such a high state of discipline,rfbd animated with such patriotic ardour, that,they would certainly.have withstood the enemy., (.55 )• .if tliey had bc(rn commanded by him alone;'but, unfortunately, Sir John Gumming of Bade-nodi, and 'dr John Stewart of Bonkyll, dividedthe command with him.Both resolved to disconcert the measures ofJVallaie; but the enemy approach ng, he pre¬vailed upon them to select an advantageoussituation, to arrange their men regularly inthree round bodies, to fill up the intermediaiespaces with archers, to place their horses inthe rear, and to fortify their front with palisades,fastened in the 'ground, and' bound togetherwith ropes.In this position they remained at Falkirk,seven miles from' Stirling, until the army ofEdward appeared; they had, in'their route,reduced several castles. But the approach ofthe enemy, instead of inducing the Scots •com¬manders to suspend their animosities, it onlyawakened them into h violent"" fii. ne. Eachcontended for the Itonour to lead the van;IVallace, as guardian. Gumming, as havingjeany vassals, and royally d . cended, and. Stewart, because his military -tenants would• obey none but himself, ahd he is even reportedto have upbraiued Wallace in .a very rude andungenerous manner. ,It is easy to p> • diet what would be the result.of a battle begun -in such circumstances  Wajlace, who, in the beginning of the action,, Occupied with that base contest, had only timeto address his pien in the following Short speed*.*■ I have brought you to the king, fly if you can/’V did( 5 ^ 1did all tliat could have been expected frflm tins'greateKt commander in the world. Cumming,vviih hi<- men. went off the field without draw ingtheir swords. Sir Jphn Stewart and his vessalsfought bravely, and died honourably* Alas?however, the fatal dissensions of the Scots lostthe day, and upwards of ,t£n thousand menwere slain. iUnable either to rescue Stewart,, or alonoto withstand the'encmy, and the Ead of Garrick-having nearly surrounded him, iVciUace .re¬treated, and passed the small river Carftm,which he knew the .enemy durst .ra t ford uthis prise.nee. My this dexterous nuinoeuvie,he not only savvd his own men. but those ofStewart’s, who Hed to him; and. by keepinghimself in the rear, with his eyp fi> o>i yu theiewho pursued, he cut off several Ci them, par*ticu.'arly one F’.n.re Bryan Jay, a knight tempi.4,upon whom he turned, and slew him in tins sight-of the victiariousVirmy. This intrepid and hold,action taught others to keep at a respectablydistance.The beautiful poem entitled, “ The L«'.iieptof Wallace, after the Battle of Falkirk,” asexpress ve of his feeling and destiny selectedfrom the Poems of Tannauj^ll, may htre bpinserted^Thou ({ffrh'Kf ndinir Carron,-c^nce phasing to seepTo me thou const never give pleasure again;My brave Caledonians lie loiv on the lee,Ajid thi) streams are deep ting d &k.i the kh?2-of tha shir.*( 57 )Ah ! basc-hiarted-treachery has doomd ourundoing ;jV/y poor bleeding country, what more can I(L? ■■Evn •calour looks pale o'er the red fold of ruin,And Freedom bekoids hcr best voarr vs laid low.TartweU, ye dear partners of peril! Farewell!Tho' burled ye Ur in one. wide bloody grave,Your deeds shall ennoble'the place where you fell.And your names be enroll d with the sons ofthe brave. **But I, a poor outcast, in exile must wander.Perhaps, like a traitor, ignobly must die JOn thy wrongs,!! my country! indignant I ponder.Ah! woe to the hour when thy Wallace mustJly!Daring the pursuit, while Wallace stood onthe one side of the water of Garrop, and Bruce,the Earl of Garrick, on the other, elevating hisvoice, he addressed him, sayiijg, •* I ahn greatlysurprized, Sir William, that you should everentertain thoughts, ns it is generally believedyou still do, of attaining the crcnvn of Scotland,and that, deceived with the chimerical view,-you should thus expose yourself to so manydangers. It is not easy, you find, to resistthe King of England; for he is one of thegreatest princes in the world: and even sup¬posing it were othe. wise, do you efftertain theidea, that the Scots would suffer you to reign ’over the:') ?”•— Wallace interrupfefihini—“ No,my thoughts never soared sp high., nor do-I in-teigi to usurp a crown, to winch i^ul consciousT( 58 )11 vo no right, and which iny sorvlces cannsjmerit. 1 only mean to restae1 my country fromoy^rossioir and slavery, and to defend, that justcause which you have abandoned. You, myLord, whoso' rights may entitle you to be king,it is your duty to protect the kingdom; it isbecause you fail in this respect, that f must,and will, w Idle I exist, endeavour to maintainthe rights and liberties of that country 1 v/aSborn to serve; and. if it is the will o. Providence,in the defence of these I will lay down my life.As for you, who choose rather to live a slave,with the safety of your life and property, thanto be free and independent, with' the hazard oflosing your fortune, you may continue in thepossession of what you so highly esteem, yourlarge estate; though, had you but the spiritto Ciaim .the crown, you might both win itwith glory, and wear it with justice. I cando neither; but tins I will do, l shall live-anddie a free born subject."This conversation could not fail to mak©ti strong impression upon the mind ot young'Bruce ; but circumstances constraining themto' break off. he returned to Edward, andWallace continued to head of: Ips men. In the.opinion of those w ho were competent judges, >this < nga;.vinent was as glorious to hts militarydiameter, as when he gained a more decisivebattle than that which was now lost. It is,however deeply to be regreted, that he didnot yield ihe contest to either of (he two Com-'thank(irs, a,nti aliowwd the good ol his countryf 59 )ti»- have •verbalanced uhat was even Vi!s un-qui.-tionahle right. But it is still matter ofdeeper regret, that Bruce and Wallace did notthat day unite, which would .have acceleratedthe ascent of the former j-o the- throne, andsaved the lives of many brave heroes, who fellin the cfter-contest, under the banners ofnoble Bruce.But the most splendid virtues, and the mostmeritorious actions, afford no protection againstthe attacks of malignity and si-nder. Nay,ii often happens, that the peculiar excellenciesof individuals form the foundation of the ma¬lignant attacks of enemies. With a view to'palliate the treachery of Sir. John Camming,who was known to have fought none at ail,the enemies of Wallace insinuated that ho be*haved little, b^ter than Bir John; and someScots authors even assert, that sacrificing hishonour and country to his. resentment againstSir John Stewart, he stood by, an idle spec*tat dr, till he saw that brave man and ail abouthim cut to pieces. flris they consider as theonly misconduct with which he can be chargedduring the whole course of ids life; and doubt¬less all would concur with them 'md auy goodauthority been produced to prove it: but sucka foul aspersion can never be believed by animpartial reader The ignorant may mistakea judicious retreat for.a giddy flight; but be¬cause Sir William was not the first engage^why refuse him due honour, because lie dUl»et hazard top much, but shewed his skill lare*'\( 60 •) ^retiring? Wliy brand hi* memory with thefalse.report of inactivity and want of courage?But this is contrary to the assertions of ourhistorian. Buchauan, anfi. of the best Scottishauthors, who all maintain, and not withoutthe most undoubted proof, to use the wordsof a celebrated Frenchman . Pietre de’Orleans,who likewise ahiriss, “ Tliat he did nothingderogatory to his character, was still himself;and that whiie his valour was conspicuous inthe combat, ads prudence was fully evincedin the retreat.” To 'corroborate, these asser¬tions, w'e miglii adduce the fact, that not oneEnglish author mentions the circumstance ofhis not being engaged, much less contradicts it;on the contrary, they mention him as com¬mander in chief of the Scottish army, and ashaving- chosen an advantageous.situat: ci, andurged his men to exhibit their ancient discip¬line and Addur. But the following fact puisa stop to all doubts and disputes on the subject.It is notorious, that as Macduff, grand uneie tothe -Earl of Fife, fell in the division whichSir John Stewart commanded, so the youngand valfant Sir John Graham, of Aberdeenand Dundaff who. on account of the similitudeof his independent spirit and heroic qualifica¬tions, with those of the immortal Wallace, in¬separably attached himself to the warrior’sinterest, person, and fate, and was 'alwaysa steady friend in the combat, and stood readyto support him was killed in the division whichWallace coQuiundsd. It must, however, beackium-- ( it )flckno^'led^ed, that in. so critical a cdnfunc*tore, Sir vViliiam stood too m&ch upon thopre-eminence oflns post. \!tiioug!i las rigiit,as guardian of the kingdom, was undoubted,yet this was net the time to contend about,leading the van, when the who)# ej-my wassboiit to be attacked; his conduct would havobaen more cominendable, ha4 lie at. once yieldedto the ambition "of his rivals, wl^n he foundth, n willing to act like nobfeaten. fighting inliel'ence of ?..% Vr liberties and their country.After this gi'Cat victory, King Edward treatedhis prisoners^ and all Scotsmen who came inhis way. with the utmost sev, rity ; and his armycrossing the river Forth,'ravaged,and .desolated •the vnuntry as far as the town of Perth; andtook the homage and fealty of ail Scottish^gentlemen who submitted to him. He designed .to have marched farther intp the country, Outova's prevented fro n its being laid waste; andhis fleet not arriving from England, occasionr^lsuch* a scarcity of provisions in his camp* us todeter him from farther operations, and obligehim to retire,, through the ferest of Selkirk,to England, reducing the castles of \yr andLochmaben in his march ' 'The Scottish nobility who submitted to KingEdward, and swore fealty to him, bad articlesdrawn up between the Kirfg and them, whVr .'atthose in arms Against him Were excepted famong them was Sir William, who would notdegrade himself'by submiesiea, on any tenr>-.« ' M( )•V. » _At » eouncil he held at Dirham, a short timejiij -r tins, 'he conferred the estates of thoseexcepted in the articles upon various Englishah l d sufFected Scottish noblns>But while Edward was eniploved in England,in either restraining or soothing the discontentsof his subjects, and .by lavish grants of land/in Scotland, to aid him in the farther conquestof tjiat kingdom, 'the Scots soon rallied to de-fen ;C their own liberties add independence..—khdortunately for his native cox: » y, however,she was soon t.o be deprived of the active ex- •ertions of Wallace. Reflecting upon the con- »’versation which he had with Bruce, in whicUbe unjustly charged him with, an attempt upont ;c crown; overpowered by ungenerous jeal¬ousy of rival barons; deprived by th fitalbattle of Falkirk, of many of his'most uitafuld '.-aliant personal friends; disgusted by the-comiuct of those who deserted him in thatbattle.; by ni scafriage, losing some degree ofthat popularity which is always? attached tovictory : and convinced, that in ponseqneVicaof present animosities, the war could not be$n: cessfully Carried on, lie formed the resolu¬tion to retire. Before this disinterested andfw ive hero appeared to vindicate the-libertiesof his country, his rank was too mean, and his■possessions too smalt, to render him the subjectof jealousy or of'mtrigue, which had sed.ucedriuny ofthe Scottish nobles to betray the in-<iep mtlence of their native country ; but nowCfcut, by a tram «l uutxuuipieU dssede, he l:ad'V ' r»q»f 63 )stsen to*eminence even the seeming good ofLis country eaiitd for the’ surrender of His'ooinmund. Accordingly, Jn order, if possible,to unite the jsas trig nobles, and to corvine*them and all. future age*, that he had nosinister dei igns'upon the crown which belonged,to another, lie called an assembly of .the be j onsand otliyr noblemen of the kingdom, at Perth,•ami tliere. resigned both his important trustus guardian of the kingdom, and his chiefCt/Ciinand. ol tire army. Thja was a costlysaer free indeed to Scotland, and proved theenu.-m of arcieU sorrow to all the lion, st andtii interested, who were fully convinced of Idssincere and upright conduct. These selectinends, ndwever continued firm in their .ad¬herence to him, and , equally determined intheir hatred ot the DUghsh ; and resolved toembrace every opportunity to assert theirindependence.In consequence of affinity to King John,whom,they,deemed their lawful sovereign, to Sir JohnCamming, his most violent opponent ,was chosojj.1. gent of the kingdom, along with Lambert.a,ihsJu'ip pf St Andrews. , •As it is necessary, in order to obtain an ao.curr/fj mid tell vny.v ot man’s character, t' atthe reader be im.de acquainted widi bis poi.tioaland religious jirisifiph,->. and also with the lead¬ing teaturcs 01 tie. ii.aioiy ot fMnc in wic-.U.be floKnshcd. we slqil! eijibrace.thi^ qppqrUimtyt:aonCrew»-•epose of *Ir V'rdliam VVnhace,T % tpf 64 ^* • J jto return to the history of.Scotland in- hi? days,and hpr connection with Engl-ami and the neigh¬bouring kingdoms.11 has already been mentioned, that Alexander10. was the last of #• .'Accession of’ princes whobad swayed t!ie Sfottish sceptre, during ti:*; !eng?pacs of eight hundred years, and ‘that he leit |his crown to Ins, gmnd-daughte:-- Ma’gttret ofbiorvvay. She being btft an infalit.. and at the* titne oi’ her gramh’. ther’s death, in a foreigncountry, a convention of the Estates of Parlia- ’•imerit was convened at Scone, and the immedi-sfte-government of the kingdom committed tothe&dmimstration ofsixregent5; William Frazer,Pishop. of St Andrew’s, Duncan, Earl of l ife,Alexander, Earl of Bucliaii, Robert Wisheart, ^Bishop of Glasgow. Jolin Cumming. Lord of ,Badenoeh, and Jad es tln*^tewart of Scotland.Scone was the ancient residence offfue kings iof Scotland; and here the coronation of theirkings tgok place at that period upon a ^tone uwhich was considered as tlse sacred palladiumc.f liberty. The following curious history isgiven of this stone: “jit was said to havt Been Ithe pillow of Jacib! and was afterwards trans¬ported to Spain, where it was used os a seat oi «justice by Gathelus, a conttmporary of Mpses!^ ■ jIr afterweirds found it. way to (he palace of !IDunstaffnage, and continued there as’the co*av.mation chair of the Pictish kings, until Jyen- JiK-:'n II removed it to Scone, where it.remained,and contiryted, to be used as the coronation seat(of every Scottish uioparch, till the year USd,.- * cnt fwhen "E a ware! L.cairied it to EngUind; ancVitoomimu-s oi,c of the appendages to royalty »aWestminster Abbey The following propheti«iihtiticb is said to have reconciled'many of theScottish bigots to the Union. .Ki tallat fa lion, Scot!, quoctmque locatumInvenient lapidenn'roguare tenentur ibiden;.Unless old prophesies and words are vain,'Where’er this stone is found, the Scotsshall reign.And the prediction was considered as verifipcd whe'n'Jaiiics VI. ascended the English tiii cne.Eevv nv:-fortunes are more strongly experi¬enced by a nation, than to have an infant ek-v-cted to tlw throne. This woo woefully exemplified,iU that period. Faction and anarchy universallyp.revaiied and distracted the kingdom. Each ofthese regents bad thgir adherents and vassals,who respectively exerted themselves in supportof their own' chief (>( the newly appointedregents, the Earl of Fife was soon after assasin-ated; I'heEailof Buc! a died a natural death;James the Stewart of Sn fland. withdrew fromthe council of, his remaining colleagues andengaged in a faction with some other'lercls. 0M» an while, the king of Norway and ihc king1 of England, the former the father, and the hat¬ter the grand-uncle, pf the it hint qu en eagerlyth»h' attention to the disposition and3 situa.*f 6<5 )sitif ition of die Scots: Edw-ar^I. one of theBH'sr vacant ami political iponarchs that evereat upop the En^lisli throne, was- ambitious, byobtaining Margaret in marriage to his eldest son,to exjgJ)race the present opportunity of'adii ngScotland to the dominion of his crown. Alex¬ander 1IL previous to his death, had taken careto secure to her the throne; and Eric of Norway.now asSerted her claim, arj endeavoured to puther in the undisputed possession of'it.-Edward, deeming matters ripe for accom¬plishing Ins grand scheme, sent a very honour-aide embassy to the parliament of Scotland, metat iVyhani neai*S!iebon.on the 18 th of July 1290,Vr'ier.e nmbassadorsfrefmthe Nonveg?, nIcmgalsoo!tended, v.itii full powers to si'tie ail the con¬ditions r-f the marriage, fat Aough the parlia-dient of Scotland agreed to the marriage, as ad.vantageous to both kingdoms, yet, in-settlingthe conditions, they tpok every possible pi t can-*turn to preserve the independence of their coun¬try,ami to guard t>gainst every danger that mightarise from so near an adisnee with'such a power*fulund ambitious neighbour. In that matrimonialtreaty it was stipulated, that the Scots shouldenjoy rill their ancient laws, liberties, and" cus¬toms: Tiiat in case Edward and Margaret shouldbe without issue, the kingdom ol Scotland shouldtrt. free, absolute ami independent, to thenext heir: That in case Edward should d'ie beforeJV'lorgant, v.'thont issue by her the body ofMaryieret should'be remitted to Scut’end free •find indc'pcndent. That the mijitaty. tenants cf( )the cr-ovrtt, ami other subjects, should not be'obliged to go out of Scotland to do homagswear feali y to elect or be elected to any office,or to do any service hat had usually been per¬formed in Scotland.•Tb it the kingdom of* Scotland should haveits'chancellor, officers of state, courts of justice,and all other'public courts as formerly: Thata newgreut seal should be made, and kept by thechancellor, w ith.the ordinary arms of Scotls/od,and the name Of none but the queen of Scotlandengraved upon it : That all papers and records'■ belonging the crown and kingdom, should irelodged in a secure place within that kingdom,under the seals of the nobility: That all parlia¬ments called to treat of the affairs of Scotland,she Id be held within that kingdom: That nodutiesytjm-s. or levies t>f men. should he raised' in Scotland,'btit such as had been usual; That'the King of England should pay the Pope onehundred thcfcsand pounds, for the use of theholy wars; - and that himself and his dominionsshould be excommunicated, and laid rftider artinterdict, if he did not religiously observe allthese articles. These wt.cles were agreed toand confirmed by Edward; and as this is thefirst plan formed ^or the union »f Scotland andEngland, it is a great curiosity. Some of ourhistorians are j ;ased to represent the Scots ofthose times, as an ignorant and barbarout peo¬ple; hut it is difficult to say what better pre¬cautions could have been taken by the wisestiiati in the most enlightened ages, for secur-V . ‘ , ‘ tog‘' > *( (>*)tbe freedom and' .independence of tMcli-•o-iiUry.But Edv/crd was not famous for holdingsacwd his treatiesnor was that prevalent iu!• ; tune in which he lived. I ft general, con¬tracting parties' violated their contracts, so soon«h either inclination or interest required Scarcely was this treaty ratified o hen thoEnglish monarch, anxious to take all the ad¬vantages which it stipulated to him appointed©ne of his subjects to act in Scotland as Lieu¬tenant, for his son; and the young queen re¬quired liie Scots to deliver up thilir castles andstrong-holds into his hands He pursued varir•us measures, which indicated that he wassnore d posed to wrest the terms of the treaty•to the purposes of hife ambition than, to abideby any of its conditions that were not unreu-■sonabiy favourable to his views.Edward next applied to the Pfpe of Rome,for a dispensation to sanction a marriage be¬tween his son and his grand niece, the Nor¬wegian princess. Having obtained this im¬portant object, and also gained the friendshipof the Seof i-h nob! s. he united with them iaapplying to the king of Norway, to implementhis part of the treaty, by sending the queenhome to her own dominion», Impelled bypaternal affection, and induced by tire infancyof the queen, the king of Norway displayedgreat reluctance to transmit his. child tft thecare of strangers. The importunities and theartuices of Edward, and ef the Scuts, at length,. - hew-( «9 )l?y«2vari prevailed. .The Scots insisted uponthe'pri'^sing necessities of. their government;-Eifwnid, upon the solemn thspensi ticn of thePope, to whom -all the princes in Clvi^teitdom'were bound to yield submission. The mostpowerful motive to Obtain the \ cung queen was,acconsmotV.fing her father with a large lean,npd gr:-»tifyir.g the avarice .of the primei[>lltilt Kliigorwcg-inn (ourtiers.Accordinglv,* C5of mvay entrusted hi? daughter to the,curepf tlie Scottish and the English ambassadors,v o had come to convey her home.But (lie fond hopes of the Scots, and theambitious projects of Edward, ware alike frust¬rated. Naturally v/jiak and tender, the childsickened at sea; 'was carried on shore on theOrkneys, and there languished and died. ■Alarming, and distressing beyond measurer’"(•re the tidings of her death to ail die inhabi¬tants of Scotland. The prospect was now darkand gloomy; qnd they perceived in full view,a disputed succession, intestine-discord, andunavoidable war with England. The death- oftheir infant; bjuecji bereft them of the surestpledge of tyinquility and peace. It will bedifficult to find in historyi the death of any oneperson attended with njjjrt* fatal consequences,twin (hat of this infant queen./ he extinct'on of the royal line in favourrf Alexander, left the throne exposed to tlieclanps of so many heirs, that (he varying urulundefined nature of ft udai law’s, could vha infn easy manner define to whom the right be-* loimed^ *( 7° )l^nyed. Boclal'union md civil establis?:menfi»h .1 advanced to a !lif4,h dcgr^-c ol'rtnjJ'ov.cmcutfi an what they were in the primitive rudetn soa ■ i insiabi'itv of Seotiuni; but still they wortsfir from what thet now arc in tliis advancedstate of Society. T e original petty hordewere, selected into communities. Union orconquest had coalesced them into one kingdom;t 1 pint:cat incursions of the Normans egastd,-in a ' their Uebudian possessions .yverc -rdiin-•(a ^.iod 3 with the exception of that familyw uch occupied the throne, most of the ancientindependent chieftains had pci'ished. Tlieforms of feudal dominion, so congenial t®Ivubarpus subordination, were firmly estab¬lished. Either by grants or by alliance, theN arm an knights had obtained possession ofmost of the great gifts under the Scottishci! wo. The incessant quarrels among rivalno.iks: the insurrections and struggles of tne.powerful vassals against tlia crown ; and tltet* ,rs of the sovereign with bis subjects, sue*eefided the ancient contentions .between tboindependent chiefs. The tenures by whichproperty was held was generally of a feudal ,'natures But the usurpations of the Church,fhe short period in winch the feudal law hadexist,al. the ignorance of the age, and the pro-4,1'mnance of ilorce over reaSoo, combined torender the uipl»lication of the feudal law. in theintricate and multifarious bus.in :#3 of society,diilicilit to be aaacifiti-ed, either by ihstitutiou®l' Dy precedent.. ( n V ' .Scotland had also a top pmrt iTul rival in theof England, separated by no local orr.atitral barrier. Since the accession ,f theKbnnan line, that nation'had acquired newenergy and vigour. The descendants ofWilliam i*f Normandy, were in general a, raceof polite princes. They bold in subjectionthe potent vassals; repressed the continualinroad' of the Scots and Welsh; their conti¬nental ,ossessions were defended; .the usurpa-bions of the Church were checked.' They',gradually subdued the Welsh, resisted the in¬vasions of their northern neighbours, and theyoil her subdued or destroyed their rebelliousnobles. Edward f. was early trained hi the*,school of adversity, among the troubles of hisfather’s reign; and having, with the bravery©f a Ciiriftir.n hero, visited the holy land underthe banner of the Cross, he was matured inexperience and years, and had acquired gr.eat£ime b< fo^e his accession to the throne. Hewas- amply qualified to improve every occur¬rence to his own advantage; and the death of'Alexander 111. of Scotland, opened a wide fieldto his ambitious mind. His design was indeedfrustrated, but in the cor »e of his negociations,the eyes of the Scottish nation were directedtowards him; and he not only gained manyadherents, but inspired the nation with an highidea of lib probity and knowledge; and heacqu red such an ascendency over a rude un-6u .pecting people, as almost to regulate theijfjuoiic transactions- /IjesicU^( 7* )fic?ide8, at t’lat period, Iralarul was £•?,intelto i - u v If., by Pypo Adrian, fir conversionand fo*' cnilqaest. Royal force and private ,s iveuturerS, - had made progress in the holyyv irl: fhough the Irisli were probably ofthe rme origin with the western anil highlandjScots yet they' hud been leng-separated, andthey were too savage and too incapable ofextensive views of policy, to unite :lh theScots agahoSt the common foe of their liberties.The Dines and the‘Norwo .-hs ancientlyConquered the Scottish Isles', niade themselvesmasters of • Ervgljind ravaged the coasts of |a great part of Europe, and rode triumphantupon the northern amd middle seas, as theirunrivalled lords. But their dot»'nicrn in Britain -and ats adjacent isles was now overthrown —Piracy had given place to commerce^ V riouscauses had termiiftted that system or terror iand devastation, with which the martial peoplo ;of the north afflicted the kingdoms of the south. -The naval force of Norway was rtow so reduced,that Eric could not»equ r> a fleet to invadeScotland: and claim the throne of his daughterfor himself;Previous to this pet?; t, France, the rival ofEngland, had begun to practise the policy of jprevailing upon the. Scots to invade England,as often as the English' invaded the Frenchdominions. But this policy bad not yet ac¬quired a regular form, nor produced any im¬portant effect, either upon the ordinary govern¬ment, qr the occurring revolutions of the Scots.In th !' ,kjpf a ’vai.o:>tu! eyr'od also, thj papal court of Romeudoo the political transac¬tions of all the Christian nations5 maintainedwith tfceiii v ri ;pilar. porrespoiidehcq. and ex¬ert- d a pr.w a.nilicnky over both their civil* and i'CCi-:> a-ticai ailitirs. Its vi;.-;ilence ;>nil i* .todVrehcc were generally directed, to the pro-tcctum of its clergy, to the extending its own‘power, atid to the maining of the wealth, oftie .r ffoturies. f;Io rever iujust or indefensible,its coimiv.uiptt or. aO i-obation could be gain -dl-r brines or concessions to a* v fraud in riego-watiu-i, nr .i.iju:,tree in conquest; and if her re-~> emiafrooi to;.-; -aland w -.s augmented, the ScoU<?r-ght ravage England, and she. in her turn;s>i ht coacjitei Scot -.nd;- cither the one or th©other nation might prevail, without any seriousi; terrciption from, papal authority.Such was the intanral situation*of Scotland?its relation to .the 1.^ st co •inguous kingdomsand courts; tjie^hspos'.trons of thqse kingdomsami courts towards the Scottish nation; andtheir power to influence,its public transactions,at t'ie period, when by,tile extinction of theposterity of Alexander HE the succession totho Scottisli throne was txposed to a numberof competitors. " 'besides the king of Norway, who claimed thesuccession to bis deceased daughter’s kingdom,1 here appeared twelve ,other conip< Ltprs- for- the Scottish throne. There were, I loranee,Earl oi Holland; Robert de Pinkney; Williamdc iiosi Pal v’b Itail of March; Vifi!)iatn.de( 74 )Vo?co; Patrick Galythly; Nicholas tie Sbulii*Roger de Mandeville; John Cumming, Lordoi' Badenoch; John Baliol, Lord of Galloway;Robert IRuce, Lord of Annondale; and Johndt: Hasting?. Some of the competitors weredescended from more remote branches of theroyal family- .and others were even descendedfrom illegitimate branches.1^5 use the language of an eminent historian,“ ach century- has its peculiar mode in con¬ductin'? business: and men, guided, more bv- C' ■ ' C ' & *■custom than by reason, follow, without enquir¬ing the manners which are prevalent in theirown time. The practice of that age, in con- !troversies between states and princes, seems tohave been, to choose a foiv'gn prince as an equal 5arbiter; by whom the question was decided,'andwhose sentence prevented those dismgl confu-eions and disorders, inseparable at all times from ’war. but which w -re muk iplied an hundred fold, ;and dispersed mto ever)' corner, by the nature ;of the feudal government“ It was thus that tiie English Jcing and barons,in the preceding-reign, had endeavoured to com¬pose their do sentions.bv a reference to the King j* of France; and the celebrated integrity of thatmonarch'had prevented all the bad eifects whichnaturally have been dreaded from so perilous, * an expedient.’ , ,ft-was thus, that the'kings of France andArragon. and afterwards Other princes, had sub-' initted their controversies, to Edward’s judge¬ment: and the remoteness cf eir states, the- great(75)great power of the princes, and the little interestwhich he had on either side, had induced himto acquit himself'with honour in his decisions.“ The parliament of Scotland therefore, threat¬ened with a furious civil war, and allured by thegreat reputation of the English monarch, as wellus by the present amicable correspondence be¬tween the kingdoms, agreed in making a refer¬ence to Edward-, and Fraser bishop of St Anrew’a,with other deputies, was sent to notify to himtheir resolution, and to claim his good oifices iuthe present dangers to winch they v\‘ere exposed.His inclination, they tiattered themselves, ledhim to prevent their dissentions, and to interpsewith a power which none of the competitorswould dare to withstand.When this expedient was ’proposed by oneparty, the other deemed it dangerous to objectto it; indifferent persons thought that the im-, ininent perils of a civil war would thereby byprevented; and no one reflected on the ambi¬tious character of Edward, and the almost cer¬tain ruin which must attend a small state, dividedby faction, when it thus implicitly submits itselfto the will of so-powerful a neighbour.”I lie temptation was too strong f:>r the virtue,of the English monarch to resist. He cheerfullyaccepted the important charge; but with thySecret design to embrace the present favourablyopportunity, if not to create, at least to revivehis claimoffeudal superiorityover-Scotland. Attlii' declaration they were filled ■with astonisla-iKStmi ami hou&sion; but, cither .OV-tawed bylx;f K)Ms ry'Tor or preVipvsiv jr.incil by li’-' av^ncs^tVj ; isbnuCted., ,Uut U!i!‘)n<j.those nsnrierons conn eider-- <’■•?Ic'j^al dH Rohi't I'.jucj*. et ^-SeiSoivav,sUmls. eoii-tinxifd; bj the e’ ideneo.*J[n the rudb anTi iHi.id'iti dny# -or Sretlaatl. iswas a thing uBtXd'nipletl a r.-scen t:ponthe Scott-fl> throne. Ht^nce, 1>t vh\: law wdnchasrt/tained thr stiCpt.-ssh>; cr’prifires i*- the omloline .tylien l'..*!i.?i, the rightreverted to the •‘tieirs-nuile ot David. EarJ ofHuntington, Ins brother. Aloxaud-fr-lll. was.thp l-tgt male branch of King tVjiha<u5 tan crown1c gaily bcionue . toth.cijrstnn-ic'branc'i oi Davd.i'lie question received a foil uiscussion inthe tibi-i of Alex: Older II ;-vvho having onlyone -on. ahd Convinced that upon the evc.it otIds-death, great contests would arise concern¬ing tlits succession, he a.■ ■‘’oh.-! the w sest ofthe ncH'iles, who' had then toe authority offt present p.trJfcim'ent; .ai 1 t.hey ucanimotislydeclared, that the - crown, m i* e tvent ot his.son's death, either.before h:r*i or vi toout roaieissue, belonged to Ivqb’- rt Bruce, grand:fatlic>£to King ltobert of Scotiand.In the person of Alexander I I. however,the thfoiie rcii! dm.-d in', the iarniiy.of King"WiIlian . lie h <1 only one daugirtcr. Margaret,mttrried to the s-'ing of Norway vtno died beforeJicr father, leaving an inf nit daughter. • liougi^Alexander wrps nc'tb-.r i.-.norant oi tae law <>1royal suacsssJnn, hi)'", ignore at oi the solemndecisien ibe former reign, in luvo.ur of. Jiobert. I 77 )Robert Bruce, t the first male branch of thefamily of David, yet, influenced by partialitytowards his own family he caused the nobles,both spiritual and- temporal, to styear that theywould acknowledge Margaret his grand-child,.as'quee’n of Scotland at ins death which was•accordingly done. In this manner was, tinssceptre, for tire first time, not only given toa woman, but to an infant of‘two years old.—To such extremes many nations revert hi the 'moments of inadvertency, or when no oneappears to vindicate their just claim. Butthe illegal policy of Alexander III. was ren¬dered' abortive, by the death of Margaret,called .tha Maid of Norway, about tlwee years,•after; and with her perished the family oCKing William, and left the throne vacant tothe family of David. Earl of iluntiugtop,K';ng William’s brother.That Earl had throe daughters: Margaret,who was married to Allan, Lord of Galloway ;Isabel, to Robert Bruce, Lord of Anoandale ;and Ada,' to Henry. Hastings, an English lord,from whoni the earls of Huntington are de¬scended. Margaret left two daughters, Dever-gaild and Marjory. Isabel, one son. namedRobert; and Ada, a son, called John. IfMargaret, the eldest, had left s son, he wouldhave been the unquestionable heir; as sheherself'would liAve been, unless excluded-bythe law which fixed the succession in the malqline. By this same law, Robert Bruch, tlj.eson of Isabel, tlje second daughter, becameCS 3 pra«( 73 )’prefc'rabl-c to DeverguiUy the t’augliter ofMar^ttret, the first dtuighterListening to the oice of candour and oftruth,sit was easy tc discover this legal right;and, accordingly, it was amply recognized inthe,great council of tire nation, in the days ofAlexander II. as*formerly mentioned, wh/nthe public mind was tranquil,’and ■• hen reasonxv'is unclouded by prejudice. Upon this va¬cancy of the throne. John Buhol, the son oiDeverguild. the eldest daughter of Margaret,lire eldest daughter of David, avid John Hastings,the son of Ada, his youngest daughter, werethe principal parsons who contended with*■}}.;.bert ! !:c.;; for the crown, 'i'he formertvrgue.k tliat hi-- r.l-r at v, as.preferable to Bruce's,ba.’yi.-tue’of his graedavother. 'who- was.theciahst daughter': and the latter, that the king¬dom should be equull) divided among tiie maledtscendairts of Davd’s tiirec daugliters; amf,therefore, a third part beJptiged to him.But mature reflection-,.and candid inquiry,decided in favour of Unice. According to thelaw then exi'-tlng the royal Accession tvasjiotnicrelv apprepri-tted-to. one faa.my. by propiu-' c piy of blood in tit: rnc.r'brancii ot tuat family.As-Abslander III. was live Inst male branch int!is familv Cf :\V illuvin, the eldest brother, there¬fore, the crpwu passed, by law, to tbe first malebranch of l),%v:d,;tbo second brother, even do ,llobuit dn v ■. ’ By consequence, I have nohesmd.en to r, ntain. that the right of Bruce. v,a» prcicr.vUeijoAdo Hit daughter and grand¬daughter.daughter of Alexander III. These wore fuma!«s,# and, according to the law of succession, couldnot, reign. The time, therefore, that the Maidof Norway swayed the sceptre, site usurpedthe right, of Robert Bruce.it will readily be granted, that by the presentlaw, which restricts the suet." . Ion to the eldestof the family, without excluding females, .heright of Rahol was preferable to that of Bruce;but not as tire law then existed ; and by thatlav alone can questions of right, which arose- in that peripd, he tried.But thouq!* the right of Bruce was qbvious'find- decided, yet the contest becv.ne violent*nnd the adherents of each party niuvero’'*.—Tin? crafty Kthvgrd, however, decide;! in favourof Baliol, both- because he p. rcetved that thro*.Ins flexible character he was a proper instru¬ment to ef .ct.his fraudulent purposes; and’1h cause, by giving the crown to him, whereright would certainly in-future be 'disputed*^emothsr opportunity might be afforded ef fo-j^Kenting the nation, should he not succeed its^rubjecling her at present. ' ,’ ' . S' • -This sliort slrgtch of the !)iston*of his country,and this,,digress!qn, will tend to exhibit tbc-character of Sir William VVallacc in a moreCons[)icuous point of view, and will demonstrateto posterity the nature and quality of thosepolitical principles which actuated his conduct^during his rlong and vigorous struggles for the.ind ependence of lys native country.( 8o.)It was formerly mentioned, that the }eal»it>Sj£s and improper conduct of enviotu noblesConstrained him to retire from public transac¬tions ; and that other rugents were chosen inbis place.After the fat&l bottle of Falkirk, the firstenterprise of these- new regents vas directedagainst the castle of Stirling, in possession ofthe English. This fort was of great, import-nnce. as the principal pass into the ScottishHighlands. Accordingly, Edward no soonerreceived the intelligence that it was besieged,Chan he displayed the greatest solicitude toniuster an army, which he might lead intoScotland to raise the siege, lie appointed his,general rendezvous at Berwick; but Ins baronsrefused to accompany him into Sc viand, be¬cause it was improper in -the beginning ofwinter to- undertake an expedition into thedreary regions of Scotland; and also, becausethey had reason to suspect, that his, successin subduing the Scots would, in time, put ann^Jinto In's hands to infringe on their liberties ^Tfrus circumstanced, be was compelled to sendorders to the garrison in Stirling castle to capi¬tulate with the besiegers. Meanwhile, the Scotshad not only pressed the siege with, keen ardour,but had also posted a considerable army atTorwood, to intercept any army which mightadvance from England. The garrison, however,though only consisting of a small troop of sixtyarchers, repelled the attacks of their enemies,ti&tii they were reduced to the greatest extre-mk*ivt'ofl of calnn'iitj*. Tlieir . bravery im.'U.’xc-®.the, victors to giant them a? honourable terms,as t!:eir ov.n funu’e safety v oukr permit.it being toe ihvourile object of Edward, f _xtc-il Snortsnd to-bis crown before he (k'seendedyto Lee ton b of his fathers, in sthev stiniintr of1300, he.summoned bis barons jv:th their vns-f-i’is to attend him upon aii,oxpvdit«m into- thatcountry. He-entered-by the western counties,ravaged inr.ai}daie,-and advancing to I>uuifriis,.there received the .submission of the barons andinhabitants of Galloway,A brief description *-f the local situationAnd ratural beauties of Dnr'.fri * will give thereader a more full view of the advantages toEdward, an<j the loss sustained by Scotlandfrom, the former being in possession of such• a place. Dumfries is a royal borough, situated'-i n theriver Nitbl about nine miles above .whereit discharges itself.into the Solway-lbith. It.was- a place of com.jdcivjde strength in ancienttimes. A bridge was thre-. n over tlie Nith;some religions houses were established, anda castle was built $ the f-hing in the river was'extended'; and thus, Hie concourse of passen*■ jry.rs- collected thither .by the bridge, the relig-t?ons cst d.'lisbments. ara'l sec" ity aSTprded by’the c.*:-tie, oencurn’d to collect comieuiiitics,.and to form a b.t\'.While Enghind and Sect land remaiiied se¬parate ■ kingdoms, Dumfries was a place of•stroogth, where die Scottish borderers’ retiredfro/a the hostile ijicundohs of the Jingiisln—. The(soThe high range of mountains, which skirt fctieaorthero boundary of this county, were con¬venient fastnesses, to which the inhabitantsright retire when driven .from the town o»«a-tle and where they might safely shelteruntil an opportunity was afforded of rushingdown upon the English foe.Tiie natural fertility of the vallies, even isthose days when agriculture was in her infancyin Scotland, affording luxuriant pastures andplenteous crops, became an object of envy tothe invaders, and of importancet,J (he proprietor.These vallies now present an agreeable surface,which is in a high state of cultivation ; diversi¬fied with lofty swelling knolls, level meadows,gentlemen’s seats, farm-houses, cottages, openlawns, and wooded eminences ; the greater partis inclosed with hedges or stone walls, and theproduce is far more than sufficient to mamtaihtlie inhabitants; and it is highly probable thatsuch Was also its situation in Edward’s reign.The noble family of Max\vell, Lord Merries,and Earls of N'thsdaic, were,possessors of the,«<istle. and in some measure, lords of the town;and when this last family, through mistakenloyalty and religion, was attainted, it suffereda temporary decline. Thus Dumfries beingOne of the important keys to the vvfest of Scot¬land. it afforded a great ascendency to iupossessors, in time of war between the ancientrival nations.Such was the case with Edward; and fromthis, among other acquisitions, the principalv foree( 83 5fofcC of the Scots, convinced that they c©o3dnot oppose him in the open field, remained iatheir inaccessible mountains and fastnesses.—In this disastrous situation of. their alaurs, theScottish regents applied to the King of Franceto interpose his good services; and to the Pope,offering to the latter the sovereignty of thekingdom, if he would, by his authority,, com--mand Edward to retire from Scotland. In< that'dark and superstitious period, Christianprinces were accustomed to tremble at themandate of the Pope; therefore, his Holinesseagerly embraced this opportunity to encreasehis power and revenue.While they were thus colleting foreign aid,they entered into a negociation with Edward;in which they made offer of their feudal homage,on condition that he should replace John Bahoion the throne; should evacuate their territories;and should restore to those who had taken partagainsthm, theircenfiscated lands: intimating,at the same time, that the Pope of Rome wouldsoon interpose his anthority in their behalf.—Edward heard these proposals with indignation;and, will) adisdainful smile, replied, “ Have youdone me homage as superior lord of Scotland,and believe that I can be terrified with pre¬tences; as if, like one "who has no power tocompel, I would tamely give up my just right.Let me'.hear no i-frore of this; for, if you dp,J swear by all that is sacred, I will destroy-Scotland, from one sea to another.”But("Put, to his astonishment, while he ;vas thus''threatening., and hesitating in • his • measure.^a message From hh Floliness arrived, command-’ ing him to d part immediately from'Scotlan'd ;because this kingdom, instead of bekmging’iothe -crown of England, was a fief belontrin.*to the papal see. This claim, though not ad¬mitted by Edward, produced a truce between 't'nc ». ont.iiding parses, which appears to h.ivObeen sufiiciently •sOosortable to nil concerned.The Eii'.iish parliament ha.ring acceded to |. i.a truce v.dtii the.Scots, began seriously to ref1;: ;'* the claims ot' the t^one, find ’of the Scottishiiation. These Utbours wire'both tedious amisevere; but thny were absolutely necessary,if not ,to convince the Holy father of the‘grottti'di.fess nature of Ids claim, yet to satisfythe English clergy, and th - rest of Edward's 'subjects, that he was not impiously rising inrebellion against the father of the Christian jworld; or sacriligiousiy violating the rights'tof the church. _ .• Aided bv bis parliament, Edward made *ahsv/er to the claims of Rome, and to the fassertions and reasonings upon which theseWere founded, by assertions not less hold thanfallacious, and by reasonings equally'weak andinconclusive. This important work beingfinished, he waited with great impatience forthe expiring ml'the truce, but with flic deter¬mined resolution to invade Scotland, and notto vet nr n until ha had completed his conquestof that kingdom. He entered Lothian ubotr.( S5 ) -t^e middle of Bummer, and preseedinp: toLinlithgow, there fixed his head quarters,Linlithgow was anciently a place of greatimportance and. renown, and rendered memor¬able, not only by the present, but also by manyother martial and national occurrences. It be¬came a royal borough as early as the reign ofDavid I. To the west of the town, upon aneminence, stands the palace, erected on thesite of a Homan station, forming a square, withtoweis at the corners. It was formerly one ofthe noblest of the royal residences ; add evenin ruins, it exhibits the most majestic and vencrruble appearance. It was greatly ornamentedby James V. and one side of the square rebuiltby James VI. which continued in good repairuntil the. rebellion in 1 "45, v/hen the royalsoldiers, who were quartered in it, by accident,set it on fire.The other squares are more ancient, con¬sisting of long halls aad galleries communicat¬ing with the rooms. The unfortunate QueenMary tyas born in one of these, u)/on the 8tkday of December. 1 of2; who never saw herfather’s face, he lying languishing to death,tit Faukland palace, of a broken heart,. In con¬sequence of the dishonourable defeat of hiftarmy by the'English. at Soiway-Moss. Insteadof feeling the least sensation of jov, updh the. intelligence of the birth of a daughter, he.mournfiilly exclaimed, ‘ The kingdom car-ewith a loss, and it will be lost with me." Intoe of thesp apartments, also, James IV. sawII -the( 86 }the ajjp'^rition that warned Win of hrs irupehS-in^ tats at the battle of ilawden. One of thehouses in' Linlithgow,, is shown to strangers,as the place from whence Hamilton of Both-wsljhaugh she* Regent Murray, as he was rid¬ing along the street, anti then rushed out at-rt back gate, mounted his horse and 'fled.At the period now under review, the ambi¬tious but prudent Rdwarij, by.the Bread of«nteri*-£ the unknown mountains, vales, andi-ihrghs.'of the western Highlands, the hope ofconciliating the Scots by lenient measures, or, by the view of a mighty- 'force or some unre¬corded cause, was induced to tarry at this pi iceuntil another tjucc was meditated between the• Scots and English, by the interposition ofI'rance.Meanwhile, the Pope afforded a proof thatLe was changeable, though he was, by hi^ vota¬ries, deemed injaUahle. 'Vhether by the power¬ful arguments of the Englisli pirliameiu, or bythe more powerful influence of Edwagd’s gold,it is not difficult to determine; the fop-, inthe mean time, not only began to doubt of thevalidity of his own claims to the sovereigntyof Scotland,, but also of the reasonableness oftJm obstinate opposition made by pie Scots t»the authonty which Edward arrogated overthem. Accordingly, he addressed thy ScottishBishops in a tone of bitter reproach; and par¬ticularly reprimanding VVisJjart, Bishop of Gias-.gow, as a rdek of offence hetv. vea the Scottishnative•pat: >n T.nJ the kingdom or England; and ^rvjoining- then; 'all, under .pair of his Holiness'flis^leos * . promote the national peace.* Me vnn idle, tlftj trr-ee expired, and hostilitieff'.ccsnv.-; red. Edtvr.rd, not finding it convenient!-to iuMd another expedition in person, dispatchedan army under the command of one of his .mostabid officers, JoJVn.de Segraye.J his general took his station at Roslin. inthe vicinity of the ■ capital. Roslin Castle*isseated-on a peninsulatcd rock, in a detp glen*and rs accessible orrly by abridge of great height,and was long the favourite seat of the family ofSt.Clair. Here is also an^an'eient-and renrark-ahle chapel, founded in 1446, by St. Clair,Prince of Orkney, and Duke of Oldsnburghf.The outsflle Ls ornamented with a variety ofludicrous sculpture. The inside is 69 feetby fM>, supported by two rows of clnsteredpillars, about eight feet high, with an aisle oneach side;.->.16 arches are Saxo-Gothic, and'are extended across the aisles; but the centreof .the chapd is cue continued arch; elegantlydivided into compartments, and finely sculp¬tured. The capitals of the pillars are enrichedwith foliage and a variety of figures, and aivkl »a heavenly c * inert'appears a cherubim bloiyiru,-the highland bagpipe. It lias b come a favou¬rite amusement for strangers, and the populateof Edinburgh, tt> visit the place, and, by copi-■ous libations To pay their respects to St. Clair.In this picturesque and delightful place,•John detsegrave too:-; his station-wan ins dr my,H 2 and •( M )and seat them out.in three divisions, to providethemselves v. kh forage and subsistenae in thaneighbourhood. But, (me party was suddenlyattacked by the regent -and Sir Simon Fraser,,and being unprepared, was immediately routed,and pursued with great,^slaughter. The fewthat escaped, flying to the second division,gave warning of the approach of the enemy.The soldiers ran to their arms, and were* im¬mediately h'd on to take revenge for the. deathof their countrymen. The Scots, elated withthe advantage already obtained, made a vigor¬ous impression upon them ; the English, whawere animated with a thirst or vengeance,maintained a stout resistance; the victory waslong undecided, but at last declared in favourof;the former, who broke the English ranks,and pursued them to the . third division, nowadvancing with an-hasty step, to support the ifdistressed companions.Many of die Scots had fallen in the two firstactions, nio»t of them were wounded, and allof them extremely fatigued, by the long con¬tinuance of the combat; yet they- were setransported with success, and military rage,that having suddenly recovered their order,and arming the followers ef their camp withthe spoils of the slaughtered enemy, they drovewith fury upon the ranks of the dismayedEnglish. The favourable moment decided thebattle, which the Scots, ■ had they met witha steady resistance, were not long able temaintain; the English were chased oil'the field;thr,ik>i:.( ?9 )■thrpe victorio" were riius gained in Ann -’iiv iand the ronowu ort'ie: •• great exploits, secondedby the favoiVi-a’. ; tl:yf*psiti<Mia of the people,florin made the n gent mast/ r of all the fortresses %in the sooth; and it be a-.me necessary forthiward .to begin anew the conquest ’of- fifekingdom. rHe prepare’''himself for this enterprise withIjis usual vigour and abilities. He as'-emhli dbotii a great fl.-et and a gnat army'; and,enterhig the fronitiets of Scotland, appearedwith a tyree which the Scots could «. thinkof resisting i:r the open fi Id. The Englishnavy, which sailed ..long the coast, .securedthe enpy from any danger of fanrin'e : Edwaid’sviailanee preserved it'tVom surprises, arid bythis pradent disposition l acy marched‘victori¬ous fr >m one extrernity of the kingdom to the.Other, ravaging tke^rpon country'. _ / acre were. faw casti s', except that of htirliag. to intercept*their jirogvriss from the Scinrlierrt to the northera*.territvjrien,. 'Having fortled the Torth,* below-Stirling, lie .avoided that [rasa and proceeded•without, opposition oft molestation to Brechin-/Castle winch was defended by a brave garrison,under the command of the gallant Sir ThomasJVlituic. It wars closely besieged and assaulted,will) all'the impetuosity that could be exertedby a numerous army, and such military enginesns the art of war employed in that age. In thehottest fury of the assault, Maul sho Ved him¬self upon the walls, contemptuously wiping awa£V-ith a towel, the rubbish which the battering-H3( *• ,qF the besiegers’ engines pi odilced. Amidstthis rash and unavailing disphvy of heroism, hewas mortally wounded, by a stone dischargedfrom one of the en j. aes. “ May we now sur¬render the castle?’’ said ** soldiers vvhen tlreysaw him fall: • Cowards' surrender—” returnedthe indignant hero, and, as he uttered thesewords, expired. Animated by his dying ex¬clamation, they renewed their efforts, and untilthe nuxt day, held out against the greatestefforts of the besiegers. Edward, having madehimself master of thnt castle, pursued his vic¬tories even to Caithness.Brechin-Castle is built on the brink ofa perpendicular rock, overhanging the riverSouth'Esk, which’ washes the foot of the hillon which the town stands. The present castleis a modern edifice, and much admired for itsromantic situation. The proprietor has laidout gardens of great extent, and in, a verysuperior stylein the vicinity are the remains of a Danishcamp. The town of Brechin was ancientlywalk'd; and some relicts of the ancient gatesstill remain. It has twice been ruined by fire;once by the Danes, in 1012 and again by theMarquis of Montrose, in the year 1605.^—Brechin was a Bishopric, founded by David I.and very richly endowed; the cathedral is auancient'(,i6thic pile, supported by twelve pillars.Near the .cluiycli is one of tiiose round towerscalled Druidi.cal tower?, of w Inch there is only^yothbr in Scotland, thqt of Ahernethy./( 9l )"Returning from his northern route King-.Edward spent part of" the winter at Dunferm¬line, vihtre is au abbey belonging to theBenedictines, one of the, most spacious and▼enerabie edifices thgn in Scotland. Whileresiding at this place either by {he instigationof their royal master, or by accident, the sol¬diers reduced it to ashes. In this augustbuilding the Scottish parliament had frequentlyassembled, to consult measures how to resistthe arms and pretensions of Edward; and it ishighly probable, that for this reason, it becamean object of the destructive fury of the English.But for the accommodation of the monks, thechurch and some contiguous houtes were spared.At an early period, Dunfermline becamea royid tt su'cTice; Malcolm t'anmore usuallyresided in a tower or castle, built orr a penin-eulated hill, in a valley near the town. A palacewas afterwards built, not far from the town,in a most romantic situation; and the south¬west walj has still esc .ped the wreck of timeand the hand of accident, and exhibits whatwas once the magnificence of the structure 1 he abbey, which fell a sacrifice at this time,was very ancient, and very richly endowed,and, derived its revenue from different parts ofthe kingdom.Durnermline has long been distinguished forits excellent table-linen and other cloths Jn the chest of the incorporation of weavers,ys preserved a curious'specimen of the weaving 'viz. a man’-s shirt, wrought in the loom,• v * Wrupward > of a century - ajgo, by one cf tbemmo Ingiijf, ivhi<jh is v.about teem ocvjtiicut She lead affillanct* • * tne re ute.—•>The only part he could net eXce ae, wasa button for the neck. 1'he idea v> as pr i»biblv fu^gefte^ bv the relation of he veilurewhich r- s without team, woven from thetop throughout.Stirling calUc war ft ill in p ff ffion 'ofthe d-fnider* rf Pcottiih indt pert! fnce.—Sir IVilliam O’-iohaot. who c sra .» ' ded thatgarrilbn. wa#- deirttnirnd to refit to theK ; ex.remitv.. Tin regent nft.'i’.iblel .aIfthe forces. \v;,^ch lie t;outu mu.'er,. on thelout hern bank of the fay. where as theufual pnilage, in oruer to intercept the Knsnlilh army. Edward* warned bv v.iia 1 ac,formeri) befatidn Crtlfipgham. and W arrene,with his f.-rmer army, lie elite ve e.: r, fovdat fome diftance, and there pofl-d with plijhis cavalry. The Scots, truiling more tothe nature of their pt'fi'ion, than eitherto t^eir ifrength or numbers, when theyperceived that he had tff fted a paflagejwere (truck with terror and fled..Though the cafcle vyas deprived of all ex¬ternal aid, yet the guhar *. Ulipl&nt j'corr.tjdevery overture of ca.pitu’.alien ; aua noblyr^tai-ned his purpofe to defend it to the !afr.The liege was cendueted with the utmoib■eaergj'j E4w&;d, thougl: oi<i: ysr. fought i^'( 93 )! psrton, and expofed hnufclt to danger, wirbI the ardour and impet'tn’City of youth. Everytmlitary engine, and all the artifice? of'af-! fault were employed. I hey held out duringthree montht.. The ditch v-a* filed up;the out-wor^s demolished ; many bn achesmade in the vails; and the ’-'hoie ca:tiei appeared one pile of ruins. .With great(L reiuclance, OUp'hant at lafl propofeu rocapitulate. Eat urd • would hot 'Ulten tohis propofals and he, with the other liir-vivora of this heroic garrifon, v\ere com-Spellecl to furrender at difereti >n. To thehonour of Edward, however, he fo refpefl. dtheir uncommon valour, that he fpared theirlives, and jdfo fpared them the ignominyand pain of .being bound with fetters.Stirling ca ’le is lituated uponpht extre¬mity of a vaulnd rock compufetl of j mtedpillars of a pentagonal form at d is of greatantiquity ; but its annai* reach onh tc theninth century. When the boots overcamethe P;els they were anxious todeflr >J everyremnant of that, people ; ard. among the red,this cable was unwifely demohflied It -'as,however rebuilt in tile reign.o* D maid V.Dun: g the Damfli invaiion, in ihe year tOoO, -it was the rend Z oos of the ScottiGt at my.In trie 12th century it v-ai one of the moilimportant fortrcll * in the kir'gi.'m; and wasOut.' of the four delivered up to the E. gitih,U*rv 94 )-v.v part Cu the’ rfitnoai of >',’n!iarn the L'ion, v/!io .was taken, captive at the Battle of Morwick,■ in i‘i7s. . it was the favourite residence ofJames I. the birth-place of 'James'IK pnft theplace v,-?4ph the' hitter dishonoured with theatrocious rnurder of his fektion, .William, Earlcf DbuphtS/wWo+n h& stubbed tvith h-s-own hand,becausahe. would .sot coinpiywijft his measures*: When the art'of artiilerj- Vas in-iti'infancjV »tuis was a place of'considerable sfreacth; butit could now scarcely hold*out a.^evv hours; %again.* an army of 3000 men, conducted byun engineer of knowledge and ability^ jLs thiscastle was formerly the scene of,many a bloodycontention^ it Is usual to point out to every •stranget-, no less than twelve fields ^fcUwttlewithk: the view of its walls. The prospectfrom it is both extensive and delightful.The victory of Edward at Stifling castle,and his previous victories, now induced the’Regent' find the other nobles id make peacewith him. Thus the whole is hand was sub¬jected to his pleasure,.and he was only secondin glory to William tjm First, vf the Normanline. -4'laving conquered, he now .proceeded to'rrrppge! the government of Scotland. 'Rut withr . gard to the manner in v liich he acted in thif ,> r.poftant inptter, h'-dortalts speak very 'dil«fV-rentlv. The author of tlie Scot! C’.irontcura,chap. .* h says, that ft% Edward having com¬pleted ids cbnqeest; which employed him dur¬ing, the spicu of no a- two years, now undertook( 95 ) ;‘.tiic-'tn©re difScult wor}; of settling'the country-of establishipg new forms of government; and■ cf-ruitkigrhis acquisition dufab'e to the crownof Enyipmf. He seems lo ha^e Carried afatters'to. an extremity 'against the natives; he abro¬gated aH«the Scottish ftuti customs t heendeavoured'to substitute tiu> English in theirv place; he entire'l# rasQci or destroyed ail themonuments of antiquity-; such records of histo-• tries as hud.escaped Tbs former search, were*.now b'Jtnt or dispersed; and In; hastened, by.. too .precipitate steps', to a'jolisb •the Scottishname," and ‘sink it finally into that of ino• English.” *' x ;On contrary, Maitland, ' Hc-roii, andothers', inform us, that a gewcral council ofthe nation was assembled at Perth, by rofidgrant; that ten commissioners Were elected;four from among the clergy ; four frorp 90 ongthe military freeholders; and two from ajnonp-•• the burgesses; who should, in their name. rt>'pair to London, arid give advice to the king.,and there establish a government calculated-to support tli.' royal authority,_ arid- the‘happi¬ness ot the peojr,. The following w-ere ac¬cordingly appointed: thebishops ofSt.yVndfew’sand Dunkeld; the abbots of Cupar and Medrose;the Earl of Buchan*, ■ holm Mowbray; RobertKeith; Adam Gordon, John de Inchmartin,and trie Earl of March, who declining to go,was substituted by 'Sir John Monteith. !'othese were added twenty j^nglisir'cemrirission-» ‘ cits;( 9* ).crs; who were empowered to form a pUa oTgovernment for Scotland.Phis commission agreed that the principalofficers to administer the king’s autliority iaScotland, should be a guardian and lieutenant,a chancelioi', a chamberlain, and a comptroller.That under these three, should he sheriffs iathe different couhties, who, after the firstgeneral appointment bv the king, should intime" to come, be subject to be displaced orappointed by tho authority of the guardianand the chamberlain. That •they should alsocho.'re coroners to succeed thorr whom theymight find unfit for the'office. That the castles ,of Roxburgh and Jedburgh, should be in thecustody of the guardian: those of Edinburghand Linlithgow, Stirling anil Dunbarton, shouldremain under the care of their present gover¬nor^; and that the castle of Kildrumrnv shouldbe committed, by Bruce, to one for whom heshould be answerable. This castle belongedto Bruce himself, and had been long a familyresidence. It was strong!}' fortified, with va¬rious subterraneous- passages and concealments,corresponding to thegreatne*; a:'.d opulence ofthe princely family of Bruce.It was farther stipulated, that the writtenlaws of Scotland, which bad been enacted iuthe days of David I. and his successors, shouldbe collected and revised by the* guardian, withthe assistance of ten oilier principal officers,ftnd then promulgated and administrated asthe common law ct'*t^e country. That for the’CiijLCtr♦( 97 )femctrnant of any new laws, which the alteredcircuinstances of the country rn'ghr require,commissioners from the Scottish pdrHauient,in concert with English commissioners, nomi¬nated by the king, should be occasionallyappointed to . prepare such laws, and present-theih for t!ie royal sanction. That persons*whose presence ini Scotland might prove dang*'erous to the trajujuillity of the ‘government*should, with the consent of the faithful Scots*he removed by the guardian out of the king-sh.-n. And that the cothmissioner's whether4Scots or English, who might be employed atany time in regulating the affairs of Scotland,should be bound, by tne solemnity cf an oath*to loyalty and seefeev.To this plan the king, gave' his sanciioff*To the duTouent commi ssioners appointed, notreasonable objection could be found ^ <imi a few*acts of urace were perfor.ued. finned, addthese authors, “ however unjust these* prefeflsi-*ons were, upon which he had prosecuted hi*Conquest, lie had scarcely taken any thing butthe name of an irtdepeeJent nation, la til lugenterprises and measures, he had dispUyed thatmixture of profound and artful policy, militaryheroism, generous clemency and imconqtisi*able ambition, which is peculiarly adapted totsuppress discontent and either to overawe of't« overpower opposition. The Scots seemedat length to be almost dniversailv reconciledto his dominion; and.those of whose powerQT seatiaheats he was iq, any degree j^ildus*I ir<£l&. ( 9S )tic fe either honourably detained in his court,*or rnevi'tsiHly pursued by .the continual vigilanceof his coan ieutiai officers. Employing sucha systoui ;jf moderate, vigorous and wise policy,Edward reasonably expected that “the Scottishnation would in future rcnuvn quiet ;i ’. un¬resisting .under his government.” Such are■ 'the two refit ions of Edward’s policy towardsScotland, which have been Uaris;* tt 1 toyosterrty, Amidst contradictory' re.aliptw,iiO'wt-vcr. it appears the safest method to preferthe testimony .of those who lived nearest tothed: fime, aud IiatJ the best export unity1 toascertain the true nature of the"events related.This reasoning is .also- confirmed by the auc-'Ceedihg events.in tiie history of that turbulentperibtl., But amidst all these transactions, WallaceStill remained uneonqviered iniawed, uncor-Vu^ted. ^Excluded from the councils, be hadtaken no part in the battles of his nativecountry. Those who disputed the post oflionou-.v for which he bravely toiled, since hisretirement,, bad proved that it is easier to envyothers oTitlieir justly merited praise, than, bymagnanimous conduct, .to deserve the same!—Destitute of his prudence, valour, and magoa-. nimityb the Recent, who was the chief andshameful cause of his departure from the de¬fence ofhis country', had yielded up the con¬test, and, .with the rest of his confederates'agaivt vVallace, had enslaved Scotland, andVow ItKt all that he had won.' si * But( 99 )Bat during all these late, proceedings,- the•ms'dar is now certainly enquiring with soifcHtr, *j after the fate of Wallace. There is iiiyr^(liiiicuity atyending the writing of tire historyof Wallace than is generally supposed; and nopart is t£Ore dilHcult than to trace his footstepsafter he relinquished his public command.—Jva'ue arc of opinion that he still continued hiScotland, ana though in a prifatfe station,"-yt t1 . gave life and spirit to the distressed govern*na-nt.. I, am of'the opinion of Fordun andorders, who suppose that he retired to France,after the memorable battle of llosim. it isa well known fact, that there was, in that pi nod,a strong alliance between France and Scotland;and that the former courted the favour of thelatter, irf order that civil dissensions might beraised in the interior of the island, when foreignways were carrying on'abroad. It was thereforeAgreeable* to the King of France, to hear ofthe success of Wallace in defence df his nativecountry. Nay it is reported, that allured bythe fame of ou:- hero, he sent a special mes¬senger to him, with a letter written by his ownbond ' jn which, after the most respectful and-tiering addre. » he congratulates lum as theJtestorer of his country’s rights, and the cham¬pion cf royalty ; reminding him of the Currentpropnecy concenmi'5 h;s delivering Scotlandiio’.n tyranny, and entreating that he wouldaccept of his- most sincere acknowledgmentsot fricmishij), not only contained in his Ictt- r,. 12 ^ hue( leo )but to be more fully unfolded bv the messenger^hopi he bud sent.VVlu n the herald arrived in Scotland,. Wallacevery graciously received him; and experiencingJthe niost cordial satisfaction at haviiyu rt CeivedKuch an instance of distinguishing favour heinformed hint concerning the situation of Scotilaud', and'Vlie various struggles w hicii he hadpad in Supporting her independence; enter-talr'ed hiin in the most mag!).* ent manner;loaded him with rich presents; and returnedari elegant and polite answer to the King ofPfadcd’s letter, informing him. among othertrfvngs that though it was. difficult for him toleave Bik native land by consequence of thoireachiry and usurpation of tht English king,yet he Would certainly comply with Wis request,and i t pair to France, as soon as circumstancesy'ould pernvt.Kothing is more grateful to a generous heart,than the approbation of a mind equally magna¬nimous and brave. Kindred Spirits cleave tovaeh other with a native attraction. Ji'Wallacereceived in a gracious- manner the complimef—tary letter of Philip the Fair, that prince Was;po less transported with joy upon receiving hisanswer. Nor was this felicity diminished bythe report which bis messengers brought, ofhis majestic ai d handsome form : bis penetrat¬ing eye, and majestic look; the prudence ofhis administration, and the valour of his deeds.ence it appears evident, from a var;ct} ofconsiderations, and particularly from tins cor-Kir( tor )'respondence, that Wallace actually embracedthe present leisure, l# fulfil his lorracr t-n^age*-aients tn the King of France.An author, who has recorded many of theexploits of our hero, in rude rhyme, informs us,that Wallace, wit’s.fifty of his brave infen, whostill continued his faithful adherents, and shar¬ers of his fortune, embarked at Kirkcudbright,and set sail for France; tliat '.mong these werethe.two Wallaces’, his kinsmen, with Crawfordfind CleJane, who often fought bydiis siue, andparticipated in his.liar-dships; th^t tfjey.com-tnenced tiitir v ryage under an am picious g fic;i at'the’san-r continued during all. the, suc-cx'edhjg nigJii, and no accident happened totmr v.-.hant crew; that upon the follow ing day,bmv. ver. i . they were gliding along, the masterof the vessel, from the topmast, descried six¬teen sail of great ships bearing towards'them,waving the r< d flag, which the brightness o:tfeesun rericlcrcd no less ti rribie in appearance.The master descended in great consternation,and bewailed, in the bitterest language, hishard fate, in belli, instrumental in bringingnoble Wallace, and so many of his brav* men,to certain death. Wallace enquiring into thesu dden cause of h is consternation, was informed,th.tr tins was the well-known Redriver, the pirate,who gave no quarter, but kiih d, or plunged allin the briny wave. Wallace entreated him toSe dahn, and enquired if there was any parti¬cular mark by which lie could be,discoveredfrom the rest of ins men. ile v/gS' instantly/*I.( 102 >jcformed by what certain mai'k he would Ij«imown: That he was tall, handsome, wore a(Scarlet dregs above a coat of umil; that he dasin t!)e foremost ship, and tliat he would be thefirst to board the vessel.Having thus received the certain signs bywhich be should be known he requested thepiaster of the vessel and his men, to retire into(the hold; arrayed his fifty companions in af-niourfofdeted therti ajl to lie close on the deck;Crawford to guide the sails, and Cleland tojstevr the hei,i); meanwhile desiring the formerto strike the moment he was veejuuestod by. Redriver, and to haul up the sail again as soonas he cave him a sign.* Matters being thus arranged, they proceededon their voyage, f od waited the arrival of ths?direful pirate! 1' hen his ship came along-side•of tlmn he commanded them to strike, or theyshould die. Crawford let down the sails, andthe pirate entered. Wallace seised him bythe. throat, cast him on the deck digarmed,and mqde him prisoner. His life was spared,on condition that he would prevent his menfrom firing, gnd that he would submit to theguidance of Wallace. Accordingly, bis fleetyetumed to port with Wallace.During the remainder of the voyage, helearned that the true name of the pirate wasThomas Lon^ueville; that he had slain a cour¬tier in the palace of France; and as he couldnot obtain bis king’s forgiveness, he had betaken. j^psdfto v-.is employment; aad by the increase( ic>3 }of his ships ard of his crpw. ho h^d {yoEght his'fli t t to its present strength. ’ Lpngueville beinginformed of the name and rank’of Wallace, washappy.thatlie had been subdued by,such a ^jian;adding, that he was convinced that iione ekecould hove vanquished hiirp Wallace engagedto obtain his pardon, and that ofhis ni^nj" uponcondition of their abandoning thgir piraticalcourse: to this the pirate readily consented.But when the inhabitants of HocbyHe, wheretheyi' landed, beheld the red flag, they weretilled with consternation, Wallace perceivingtliis, ordered Jus ship to steer first into theharbour, and upon seeing the Scotch flag, theyraised the shout of joy.Ila*ing requested Longtteville’s men tobehave wiih the utmost civility on shore, hedressed Longuevilie himself, similar to* one ofhis own attendants, and took him to the palaceof the king of. France, in his train.Philip received \\ aliace in the most honour¬able and friendly manner, and he and his noblesvied with each other in marks of respect.  After enquiring concerning tire transactionsof Scotland, he also enquired concerning theirvoyage, and particularly if they had escapedthe hands of Redriver, the terrible pirate  Wallace replied, that they had met with noharm : then asked the king if h6 would knowLonguevilie. He answered, that it was longsince he saw him, and that he could not he.certain, Wallace begged that lie,would lookaround among bis f ompanions, and sec if anyofVC r°4 } 'of them resembled him. With a penetratingOye he surveyed them all, antf*then replied,t«)4t the tall man 'vho stood next to him hadthe nearest resemblance to Lphjrire.ville.Wallace then fell upon his.knees,’ and afterenumerating some of the cruelties of the' Eng¬lish, entreated Philip *:o interpose i: » .'half ofthe Scots, because of tiie treaty of alliancebetween them; and farther mentioned, thatsince he had come intet France at his particu¬lar desire, he had one particular favour to ask,which hp requ w'ed iha promise to grant.—-The king instaui. y rep.ied, lie would dor.jhim nothing except his crown and his queen.Then Wallace gracefully requested that hetv quid pardon Longqeviile and his men andreceive him. into favour; at the same time,presenting him to the king.The king, in consequence of his origins;!offence, and tile blood which he had afterwards''shed, •(bit himself'strongly emlwrrassyd ; butfor his royal promise, and the regard which hebore to WaHace<his request’was complied with,and Long,ueviile n'ot only pafclohed, butknightedand his. estates restored. Fhese Longueviilobequeathed to his nearest heir, and united hisfortune to that of Wallace.There litre several other things related con¬cerning Wallace; How that in a short time.,after he came to court, he requested leave tomake war upon the English who possessodGuienne; that, in several. battles, Wallace,with his men, and the-forces under h;s com-( * °s )defeated the English, drove them out o$that' territory, and restored it' to 'its rightfulju-oprietpr ; some say, he received it to himselfas a present, in consequence of his valourIt is farther related of him, that while resid¬ing at the court of France, there were twopreat champions, strongly attached to eachother and were remarkable for their hatred ofthe hoots; and that one day. in conversation,,they broke forth in the most Opprobrious abuseof the Scots: Unwilling to quarrel with any ofthe French courtiers, Wallace listened withpatience for a little, and even gently remindedthem of the impropriety of railing againsta nation, with which their own was in presentalliance. But this prudent-admonition onlytended to inflame their rage, and to increasetheir insult. Enraged at last with their ihso-lenc'e, V\ allace gave one of them a blow tintlaid him on the ground; his companion attack¬ing him, he shared the same fate. The firstattempting to renew the attack, was slain witha second blow, and both were soon numberedwich the dead. This taught the French cour¬tiers how to behave towards Wallace, and thewhich'.' being made known to the king, he passedover the matter.It its also reported, that after tliisp some ofthe friends of these champions, in order to hoavenged for their death,' laid the following snarefor \\ allace. 11)e king of France had a lion,exceedingly cruef aiid fierce, and two of theC'ourtierssoue day intimated to fallacy, in theking'sRing’s Punic, that it v. as the Itutg's ueSce-that Wallace fltnuld fight the lii^n Wa'lacewas greatiy iffended at tFie ird'gnity. to berequetied to«combat a w :.ld be a!t' Uwt dif*‘dained to refuip any requeii of the king.—Thele traitor:, at the lame ttnte, went tothe king a'd informed him -that. Wallacer‘.quelled leave of the king to combat thelion. khe k^'g- equally billing o comply,v i h every wiih ot hij, readily conierted.Thus the\ f’ucc eded in impoiirg uper h in,but juitlv met wirh 'heir rewaid. 1 Wallacewrapped'his mantle about the one hand and. \fith his veil-tried Iword in the ( thet, pre-pa' ed to the*.combat. ! he lion came forthfrom his cave, roaming and roa ir.g againlth;m. W a; acenhiull hi covered arm intohu rcicu -i and v ith hisf 0‘d in the o'.her,feveitd his h ad from his bid). But, t*-turning to the king, he expriff-d his dii-pleaiure in iborg iat guag.t, and requelledleave to defvart hif‘dt-|umnon>. i his pro¬duced an cXplana ion, in \ hich the iraudwas di'covered^nnd th« fe tv o nobles wersjntlan Iv fenttneed to death. . Wal -c', ho-.v-j ■ * •ever, did net chovfe to remain any long rin a c.'Crt'-where'fuch intrigues . e, cr. mignt be pra£iifed uptm 1 imUleainvhiie <• at 'again commenced be¬tween h -Knglifli and Scots. . I'he mmality‘of that'age vvas'i'uch, that natioqa defen d\ < them-.1' tji£*nfeives no logger bound bv their treatie*.1 thfsn an opportunity was afibnied of violat*a Ing them with advantage. The peace witlj] K i'1 afd T.ad only {'mothered but- nos c*x-itvtguiih.'-d the flame of national animofity.The prjja and reitleHneis cf a barbarouspeople -were ript eafily mbducJL The tx-ij ample or Vv adace had taught, bis eoLUitry-li men the poirioiuty of rrfiittxig the force ofl| mahv* by the valour of a few ; therefore, theif trumpet of war was again founded.'loou^this period, Wallace a/atn appearedI in defence of the injured rights of Scotland.SiT.ving, as rep ' ed, larded r. om Kranee,at Moptrofe along with hi* b ,,ve compani¬on*, and Long i vilie, who would never de¬part from Wallace, they were j intd by•Sir Jihn^ RamlaV. Ruthven, if hit. and'others ; all of whom d.uewr.ined, under hisbanners, to reicue licotiard or fall in the‘ glorious attempt.‘With tnis imali band.lie. marched tou ardsPerth, a place of gr^t iirportat cfc, bei. g,li uattd in 'he centre of the kingd m. a dh-lving a c tmnrjuicatien with f .ngi.ai.d byfea Lying m ambufli in the vicinity, wast¬ing for ionu favourabh;'opportunity to itrikaa blow at the lingliih, n fortunately hap¬pened that fix hhlghih fervants came forthfrom the to.vn. with erri*Vy carts, to ertriveyhay into the town, ludantjry Haying thef 108 )*ETvanf?, six of them were, arrayed in theifUpper garments; the carts were roaded and asmanv as possible ledged themselves among thohay; the rest were,placed in ambush. In thisdisguise they entered the town. No soonerwere they entered than Wallace slew the por¬ter. and secured the gates, for the entrance ofIds men ; who soon appearing, they spreaddestruction in every quarter among the English*tind so terrified the remainder, that the gover¬nor, Sir John Stewart, fled out at the oppositegate to the wood of Methven. An hundredtook refuge in the church, but the superstitionof Wallace did not induce him to spare theirJives, even in the sacred *.actuary.' By thissuccessful adventure, Wallace acquired muchbooty; and, besides, a military station, of vastimportance to Ids future conquests.From hence he proceeded towards Fife, andsuccessively reduced the several towns andcastles in that populous county. There wasa small party, however, of the English, whoelieltered themselves "in Loehleven, and themalso Wallace was determined to dislodge.This Lochleyen is a noble sheet of water,the circumference of which is about fifteenmiles, and the surface is varied by several isles,the .largest of them is about 4-8 acres, in whichstood the ancient Priory of Lochleveh. Andupon another stood a castle, belonging to thehouse of Douglas, in which the English resided.This place, was afterwards rendered remarkable,as the prison of the beautiful Quaen Mary, inwhicht( tor) )slie was confined during eleven aaont^'i*s 1568.To expel the English' fi'Prri this strong hold,Wallace selected eighteen of the oravest of hi#men, and marched towards it in the darknesaof the night. Arrived there, be stripped b.K'.ndhis sword about, his necir. swam over to the isle,. out thy rope of their boat' brought her over,and ouv/eyed his men in safety to the c title ;he assaulted and took it, sparing hone, except^•jfie women and children. H iving tints clone,he sent a messenger to Sir John Ri,i**ay, torequest him to take a dish of trout with fthtiin the castle of jmchleven; then drew to landfc i!ie boat, and rested himself and his men.Returning to Perth, by the a (vice of BishopSinclair, lie sent one messenger to the nsrtb,and another into the west, in crder to raiseall hi*, friendsjn both those part*.while m Perth, he received the intelligence,doit a cruel English captafh, of the name of*Fiiomas Weir, who had an hundred men nnefeefeis command at Perth, had imprisoned his uncle.Ide immediately dispatched a trusty messeuge#So explore the Tay, in order,to discover adinpBiode of crossing, as they did not wish td repaii*to Stirling, in consequence of the numerousEnglish fchat retained that place; He fortu¬nately met with a fisherman, who readily em¬barked in the cause, upon learning that he ba-ipnged to Wallace, and that an attack wanjfefcdiSgtod to liberate Ins uncls*M 't'rp*f( II* )The fisher not only conducted them #vsjfin his boat (which t!;ev hmnedi Uely broke inpieces) bwt.tdso*conducted them to Airth-hii!,a place bf strength, lie then led Wallace andIns men over a small bridge, to Weir's house.Wallace dispatched him at a blow, am! bis rne.idispatched the rest :< so that the captain andh:s hundred men lay weltering in their Vaod.They next hastened to the five, where hisbear uncle wag confined,and pound with letters,'i'he do.d bodies were thrown into ditches, andwatches placed at thc.gptes.; and npne oftheI-.»glish . who caftjo jn, retutned ' to tell theipournin! news,.. Upon t second, cay.', theycollected ail. the spoil which they carried ‘away,and. in the darkness of the night, conveyed itto rorwopd, in theptfigbbovtrhoo.d.Wallace next marched west, towards D-m-barloi). in th?,night, apj' arrived there he Toreday. , Be, calk'd upon y wi.p>w whom h:* k;n w,and who rceei.yed and,entertained him and hismen in ?. ci'osc barn, with the great,cst secrecy.She had nine sop#, strong and young;, whomshe prCftentcd to. i^ajiace to increase his men.7:1 e caused hyr to, niayk nil’ the doors wheretheli. tied wepg Judged : 'j'hcn.. .vl?h bis men,bo silently ^med ftdni hig -eti'-at. in rite night-and cciimibiwpig wjxh an itngijf-h.captain,vdip w ith carousing in a publichonsQ. he set ,.;he lions's on hrgsvhere thbJtnj^ish were iiuart Having finished their’’ vfOrL they fled to Dutibartoa-csive before day. ,* 1 Dus-( III )'St/XnARTON u a small town, situated uponilia eastvrn baait of tiie Leven, vvhic’a almosteiicircios; it. Alexinuier II. erected it into aroyal borough, i'ais place is, hoiv-iver. chieflyrtiiiurkabie for its • castle, situated- ot a smalldistance from the town, and often’mentionedin the history of Scotland. It stands upon theton, of a rock, ui -.-h divides about the centre,and foru.'o f>vo summits. These sides are craggy,.md tiif buiidrngs, though not beautiful, contri¬bute to give it an air of consequence. '1 ne gat-3is at the bottom; and within-the rampart, winchi-. fends the entrance, is the guard-house, andlodgings fsJV die officers. Freni hence theascent is, by a long flight cf stone steps, tothe place v. liere the tuck divides. This rockwas an early place of defence, both to Taletlo-rfians and Britons; aitd from its local situation,its interna] strength, and its antiquity, it formsan object cf great curiosity.TTa r,r.ack having treated the English inthe manner'related, the night following heproceeded to lloseneath castle; and having••ditin mere than eighty of the English vbu>v, re returning from a wedding* he enteredthe castle aldug with those who escaped, slewevery Engiishcian found in it; and- havaigleast-.-1* aV.d retrcsticd ins men tor seven days,he set tire to the castle, and departed.I'he dawn of Veturning prosperity broughtii lends around Wallace. Sir VVilliani Douglas.been ceustraijicd to- submit to KcUvard,K y anti( Its )(Ulfl ftlf» eonsTf’*i?nrd to marry 3tn f'nglitit nSv.jbut xrhen'fit luard that \t allace wai a^sin inthe fieKK aVI rescue 'Scotiaod, hebv'riieari^ oi' a* tiMstv man, of the name clDicks-dh,' ^'dt^h'cV'tidtstte «Jf 8»i qrthpr by stra-ta^cny, anri' pifc leV^ ri nra+i tb the Heingrincioseti hn tth-jiatehtti • the sameDickson to Wallace, to entreat speech relief.Mc-anmhileli"'Wfl)lAcfe began to march south,,and tit his V'ofSW OTt elf Bt vindale., n» Engliskcaptain. withr twt* huhdred men. fn the vicinityef tlie tattle of Ki^Vth ; but he did not choosesto delay* tiint' by besieging the caslie. In thissaute ronte Hd bhrnt the towns of Linlithgow,Dalkeith, and Kevreasfle; expelling the Englisiifrom every quartter wlietv he curve. As suc¬cess always; teudMttt embolden, the friends andadherents of Wallace, every day increa.ed.Aotcmr these, the renow nt d Lauder and Sea¬ton, wild had, during the day* of usurpation*fortified themselves1 in* the - Hass, upon the in- ?telligeflce' df WiUlace's snccitFS ■ issued forthiVohi their if treat, buradcl Nortlii licrwick* , Iend'joined Wallace. N ; •• i •!. - m » ■■'^aiuAicqaii tuO-sg io in t-r.Hie fiasr, ■W’Hleh’wo long shtitered thesefcriVh fridjt. is art insulated rock about a milein dlrbuHtfereneyv ad uafed in the mAilb oi the.iYit'h of'Forth jnal»<fik a tiiile t’>oia),,]Noifch Her-•Mck.- ft;ili!feteepiiiiid:inaOce«si'brk‘On, a.d sides, ;except ihdSOiithtviest i snd evmnthere a singletnan dan .atthW iltfikfttflty climb dpt. tfith the '(Jiei8ttKi.ee et a rope t«td laddes. The strength»( 113 )*!’ tlie castle, and the local inaecesaibleness ofthe place, defende4 tliose heroes Uopi ah tl|efury of Edward. A strong garrison was longkept there, and it was often employed as .*states prison; b\it a party of the adherents ofKing Janies, having defended themselves iu-rg,after alj tlie rest of the country was subduett,the castle was afterwards laid in ruins.Wallace directing his course south-west,reached Pyebtes; where he was reinforced bythe amval of the brave iltygh tja witlt, fifty,and Kutheil+'i'd, tvitii sixty nitm. in this aus¬picious moment, Dickson, who was dispatchedhy &n\ Wdliaui, Dougins from'Sanquhar, tcpxe-qoust thg specif assistance of ahace, arrived,and informed him of the imminent danger c.fins master. VAjSfcbout one moment s delay,V ailac.it inarched to-his ait!.' Tile,. English,ti ho besieged Sanquhar Castle, wiien- tliey/re-ceiv,ed the intelhg uce of,his conung, flea, withtile greatest precipitation. The Castle .ofSanquhar was then of consideraple extent andstrength, situated about*4 mlie from the town,and considering its elevated situation, wasa fort of great importance.1 hough the English did not choose to waitthe arrival of Wallace at Sanquhar, yet. inf, jjn-ed of their rout, w ith a troop ot three hundredhorsemen, leaving Earl Malcolm, who had join¬ed him, to come up with the remaining p u t ofthe army, he pursued; and commg up with theenemy at Cbseburn, routed them.,, Cpon the( *14 )fippaar&r.ce of Malcolm the flight of the Englinii{became universal, while the Scots jruraued, and•slew all that came in tlieir way. Duriag tholong pursuit, the horses failed through fatigue;<fcen the men pursued like hinds andlionson foot.But while Wallace.was thus wielding his sword8n defence of his native country, and rapidly ef- ]/ecting her deliverance, Edward, convinced ofthe difficulty, if not the impossibility, of con- {quering Wallace by the sword, had recourse toother measures. In this attempt he employed♦very mean in his pewer. and every person ir*fcis influence. Nor did Edward doubt but thosemeasures, and bribes, and premises, and honours,which gaiped the services apd submission ofothers, would also, in time, prove successfulwith Wallace. He supposed that he only hesi¬tated. in order to obtoin the utmost advantagefrom hia importance. It was natural for Edward,from hia long experience in the field of politicsand intrigue, thus to reason.Accordingly, he courted him with large and• magni^cent promises of honour and wealth,place* and pensions; but in vain. His constantanswer, both to his intimate friends, and to theiemissaries of King Edward who ventured toa ddrets him oh the subject, was, “ That he owedhis life to, and would willingly lay it down for,hi* country; that should all Scotsmen but him-aelf subimt to the king of England, he neverwould: nor would he give obedience, or yield•allegiance, to any power, except to the king§ooU**u;, fa*, wghd'ui aoYareepi.”i( )But bhe-gable Yirtue »f an individual sevas^Jy matched with the base intrigue of a pswerfuimonarch; When neither threats bribes, norexample, neither open force rukuecnet stratagem,«ouid conquer the invindbfe'hiIttll'Of the braveWallace, Edward reriiensbered’thtlt one exped»tent yet remained unottempted i-—That the pre*fferm.ents and money which - Tte diSdaivifuliyfejected might operate UpOrffthe mind of rbmo*ne of his confederates, to betray‘him into hrspower. Sir John Monteiih. whose name onlydeserves a place amoajothe basest of the humanvaee, and 'wluwe crimfnality will adhere to lifename and family while' Scotihnd is a uaijofe',"piyTed the traitor. 3 ' '*d zjfCHtj f. illlj t.iThus the brave, th^ generous, the disirjeivosted deliverer of bis country, was seized andimmediately conveyed to London. This mkv*fortune, the greatest that could befal Scotland,•' was inexpressibly atflreSive to all its sincerefriends and Itonests d^hderi; bdfcit £live equd5oy and pleasure to ail England; Though theyrejoiced in the waribeing apparently ended,"yetieven the meanest of the Vulgar coWinisdrittedthe hard fate Of an enemy tie juytiy reirowned,As he pasted through England, gVeatimdtitdriesef men, women, and children, assembled fromall quarters, to gaze upon the illustrious prisoner.Arrived in London, he was cbndiifcted to thehouse Of Vine: William Delect, in Fenchtirch-Street. The day folioWb0?thel2'3d «i‘ August,L ' ' K^5>f i r6 )» i ^i80.5r Vie was brouglu on horseback to West-imnster? accoinp;>ni<;(i 'm several knights the ;Butvor, shorritrs, and aldermen ot’tne city, wichttiMiy other persons ot eminence and rank; mprdsenc^ of all whom, he was placed on thesodth bench of the great hall; and either bo-aatlse' they wished the peopla to believe thatbe Vt.ftl ‘aspired fo tlib Crown of Scotland, or jbecause'ithvas reported that he said he deservedto vyear a crown there, they crowned him, in•leri.sion, with laurel, while Sir Peter Malory,Chief Justice, impeached him of treason.j Hi .:; . o .'t ■ ■ i n , 0 . ■ .To thii; cbargel(he boldly replied, “ Tlrnta tticiihV’ hb never was, nor could be, to t!ta'kipg bf lyV'.igkmd'.” The other Crimes tor widelyhe *wh.%-"miV!efed, as burning of towns, storming•f castles,, kinirrg the English, end oriters ofa ^iinilar hi’tr'v, he1 frankly acknowledged : butdenied thi;f they were crimes, unless 'mistakenVvfatiy tn his natural sovereign, with ddfevenee ‘t2/‘wh«my hud in whose name he ever acted,together with Zeal for the just rights and liber¬ties of his native-country by the communityof which he was created a niagistrate, and theresisting the encroahhn'.ents of a foreign go-Mmfnment and a tyrannical usurpation, coulddeserve td be branded with that odious name.Pt/’t innocence becomes guilt at the bar ofenvy. These heroic virtues were declaredCapital Crimes; arrd though the prisoner'hadnever acknowledged; nor submitted to the Jaws^t nr )-•PF-nglan'l, yet ;.e was tried by tirea*, aad u»-justly condemned to be hanged, drawn, anil•juarted; -and, while alive, to have Ida bowefceut out; which was accordingly done, withthe utmost barbarity and cruelty-, ,lha ueadwas tixt'd upon London Bridge, and the fouirquarters of his body were placed on the gnta't©f as many .of the principal cities of his native-country.: (t‘ - It is matter of severe regret that we ere notftivoured with the narrative of the behaviour ofWallace, cturiug his trial, and upon the scalFoH*I’rom the moment he was taken prisoner, tothat of his death lie was solely in the hands <Jt*Englishmen, consi quently. no Scottish author*bad an opportunity to record his last actiensor sayings; and Englishmen would not,d»justice to Ilk memory, nor to his conduct, whenenduring those torments, which proclaim the-ciean, dastardly, cruel, and ungenerous spirf^*f Edward,, to all succeeding ages.-jr. ■Few Princes have had the honour of sudltau iilustrjous captive,, or such a favourableopportunity jt£ jn.mortaiige thoir fame, by anact of gym?rout magnaUimity; either towith kind hospitality, or liberate v, -:h prints iygreatness. John Ijiujf. who was chapiai^t toWallace, .pnd who wrotp the history of his id'e,which, unless a %y fragnjents,. is unfortuuatdylost, renjarks, “ lliat three, things unite to ua-SRsrtalitM tfcc famo of nsblrWaiiaso; his owni2uif>( 118 }ihnoeenoe, the tyranny of Edward, and thetreachery of Monteith.But cruel tyranny usually defeats her owepurposes. The ignoble and barbarous mannerir wincb \Vallace was treated, and the fixinglii-; divided body to the city gates of that countryfoi whir h he had done so much, roused everylatent spark of Scottish valour and independ¬ence; exasperated the nation against Edward;animated them, to revouge; and excited all thefriends and admirers of Wallace to flock around•he' standard of Robert Brace; to avenge tnedeath ot Wallace: to shake oft the yoke ofsuch an inexorable tyrant, and to till titsScottish throne with a lawful sovereign.It may be attributed to the partiality of& Scottish pen but the candid reader is leftto judge if any of the heroes ot ant cptity canbe compared -vith Wallace. Compare theirbeginning, progress, and ach.'evments, withthose of our Scottish warrior : Alexandergoverned the warlike kingdom of Mucedon ;soon had all Greece tinder Ins command; andw an he overcame the Persians, he pmyvanquished women and eunucus. Cffisar hadto encounter Romans; but he had Romans tolead again, t them, and a veteran and well-disctpmted army against an indolent and jarringSenate, a voluptuous and effeminate youth,who. instead of being inured to the sword,durst not look at the point of a spear, lest it( 119 )should fill them with terror, and disfi?ure‘theirfaces, fi fine, both-these heroes had men andmoney; hut' -Vallace had neither the one northe other. !'he one was a king, toe otherti wealthy citizen of Rome, and one of thefirti rank. Wallace was only a private gentle-,man, tl'.e se r nd'son of a poor Scotch laird;lie had martial England, and political Edwardto encounter and only a few of the nobles andpeople to'support him. Nor did either of theseapmoa'ch to his aid, until, -by the power of bisown arnt, and by the'number and power ofhis heroic actions, he constrained them toconclude, that under his conduct,^ they wouldprove invincible. And it is added, that thepurity of.their intentions, the objects f*r whichthey ’contended . and £he means, employed .topro., .•.cute t’hei’v schemes, vvere not more nobleand disinterested, than those which gave nervesto the arm. and motion to the sou!, ol the greatbir William Wallace. 'A L’oet of that age has expressed his own,pnd the feelings of. the nation, upon the sadevent of ins death, in the following lines:ExviOus De’ath, who ruins all,H it!) wrought the sad lamented fallOf Wallace; and no more remains- Of him, than what an urn contains.V*jj ashes for our hero have, ,He for his armour a cpjd. grave. .Ele left‘The earth, too low a state,Ajsd by his acts p’crcauic his fate:His( 126 }ji»s scul death had net power to kill*Mi* no!»!e deeds the v,*erld fill^S'ith lasting trophies of his name.,O 1 h'idst thou virtue lov’d, or fame*Thou couldst not have exulted se,Over a brave, betray’d dead foe,Edward! nor seen those limbs expos'dTo public shame, fit to be clos’d,As relics, in a holy shrine:But now the infamy is thine,His end crowns him with glorious bawt,And stains the brightest of thyspraisr.♦-A A A A V* A A X.-A.VV*ANE L *K G Y.On Sir William Wallace;•■Scotland lament the mournful fateOf Wallace wight of Elderslie, *Who boldly stood in Freedom's cdu££,Against King Edward’s perfidie.iiost shamefully he was betray’d,And ct.rry’d up to London town,W! lere by mock-trial lie was condemn’d.And then in ijuarterR was sent down*To fright his friends from valiant feat^,In vindicating Scotia’s right,Against her foes, or any moreT’ attempt.to set her foes to flights"Let Scotland’s Hero’s bold exploiu,Inspire her eons with valqur bold,Te vindicate her sacred rights,At im been dene in days gf( 12* ). 'A SHORT ACdnps Tfjjihs Public Transacti:>n& in Bbqtlqnd:after the Death Wall ace.Kdwakd’s cruel conduct towards V. allacc,1 had not the intended .effect, ol securing hisI conquests; for new enemies arose whence hef least expected. As he returned from hi' Iasid cxpedilioa to Scotland, John Cuinihg ^nmiRobert. Bruce meeting together, after icng"! esnference on the state ol their gauntry,, and^tire delusive promises lie had made to each oti them apart, to support their chums to thei crown of Scotland, yet they found Iris inter.-t tion was only to use their assistance tcAmnqueri and secure it to himself; which opinion lie[ had confirmed, by Ins carrying out of thekingdom all its records, antiquities, apti learnedmen, Tnereupon tlyey agreed, that Cammingshould drop his pretensions to the Crown infavours of Bruce, and that Drupe should givehim all his lands for his assistance,, .,'Ihiei Contract was iminedietfdy conpiuded .on, andi sealed by both parties. Upon this, Bruce,watching an opportunity to rise in arms, lefthis wife and children in Scotland, and went\ to the Court of England.After his d iparture* Gumming (as it isjeported) aiiher repenting of in> agreement,i «r fraudoleiHly to oppose Bruce's proposed■ L i .A quaf-(Vutiisi-Iou ta tlie Crorrn, revealcd tT;etr o’e**'-fiinaUon to Edward; and in evidence thereofhe sent ’’.ini the signed Contract. Bruce wasimmediately arraigned for high treason, ^indfin-bid to depart the Court, having a secretw itch set over him, to obse* ve ids words andactions. The King's (Haying to punish him<br a conspiracy 'so manifest, proceeded fromt. desire he had to take hold of his brethren,fefTore they should hear of his execution,and to jeseopp. . *Bruce being advertised of his danger by$ie E.;il of Gloucester, ( some, call .him theEar! of Montgomery) Ins oid friend, wiio hadsent him ^pair of sharp spurs, and a few, crownsof gold, as if he had borrowed the same;guessing the meaning of this present, caused,lay night, shoe three horses backward, andposted away from Court with two in his com¬pany and on. the fifth day (being winter, and> ,IShe way deep) arrived at Ids own Castle efLochmabane, where he found ft is brother,Edward, and also Robert Hemlog JamesLindsay, Robert Kilpatrick., cud ihomasCharters, who told Iwm liow Wallace wasbetrayed by Mir John Monteith and the Cuia-ming faction, a few days before. Immediatelythereafter, they inoereepted a messenger «ituletters from Cumming to Edward, desiring<Siat Bruce should be dispatched in haste, lest,I>eifig a nobleman much favoured by the com»tjtwsas. he ghoofd taisc fui tber ecEiiaotien?.uojTid ■ Thy{ 1*3 ^Tha treachery of Jo!?n Gumming, beforeeniv suspected, waa thereby manifest; v*hichgij incetiset! Lord Bruce,- that he set f>T iu>-nieuiKteiy to DiimfViea. where Ire fouird Cum-nsitrfj at the Mass, in the Grey-Friars’ Church.Aiier !;e had shewn him his letters, lie anddr.use wher were with him stabbed hint and hisecus in Sir Ed ward Gumming, and others, withtheir daggers. This slaughter was executedan tire 9th of February, in the year It*Ob.V r.eca getting thus rid of cnc enemy, founda great number to rise out of his ashes, event »the whole puissant name of Gumming, withtheir’allies, the Earl of March, Lord Lorn,Lord Abernethy, Lord Brechin. Lord Soules.The most part of the north, and all Galloway,adhere,. to the Cummings. The Earl of Marchand Lord William Soules, commanded theMcrse. with Bern id; and the border: all whichtSiey yielded to Edward, tu oppose BructaiAt this time Bruce's two brothers, Thomasand Alexander, with Ronald Crawford younger,having landed secret.y in Galloway, were takenk) Duncan M .cdougal, a great, man in Gallo¬way, and sent to Edward, who caused thersall three to be hanged. There assembled oaBruce's side, young Lord James Douglas (who,bearing of his father's death, had returned fromi’Vaace, where he vga-* tttfsehaalfia&dOitirid some¬time with his kins,: , . William Lamberton, /SRtihsp of Sti Axdr«Ms) Earl Malcsm Ltnnost,L Ct Bari( 124 )Earl John of Athol (although of the Cammingt>I >ou, was father-in-law to Edward Bruce)Sir Noil CampBejl, Sir Gilbert Hay, Sir Chris¬topher Seaton, ,Sir Thoiruis Ronald. Sir HujrhKey.' Joim So-nimerville.. David Barclay, Alex¬ander and Simon Braver, Sir Ilobert Boyd,Sir William Hallyhurtou, with sundry who hadstood with AyaHace before. With this companyhe part, to Sci;on. and took upon him the Crowsof Scotland, April 13(;9.Kint; Ilobert Bruce sometime after this,rldsurl an arsW,- with the intentioa to besiegeSthtlohnstoun ; but hudin r his power too weakfor that purpose, he retired to vltthven, whereIre was unexpectedly assaulted and discomfitedby Sir ‘Ayrner da Variance, but w ith small loss,a few only being taken prisoners, among whom,wefif Ran'inl, Barclay, Frazer. Inclmiartine,ffbumfen-vilie, and Sir Hugh Ha/, wlio were^otlstGiined tg swear homage to Edward.—Tlle'C'otomons bhing tjiereby discouraged, for-Sbbk tfftar nem king;; and he, with- g few ofhis* prineipalcoirfidents, went into Argyleshire,to lunk there, for some time, with his■OrM'lAi-fiKlAw, SiroSSml Campbell; but he wasthMinUtbritd h.y .thonv'ayi by Joim iEorn. cuus-.uto JAftn ^OuinmTng, and Constramycf to fioe, butwith sitiall loss. ! After tJiis si coed cpseoiufiture,he sent his Queen (being daughter to Grasney,Sdfrl'ttf Mari witfiiddsbrother, Sir Neil Bruce,^’AAtA ••F.ari lof Afliuh. to,the Castle of'Jv?ff{lBn^y90*0' Mu#. ‘ f ) • ■ _ui non a ctsiftnon e g:o‘ ■ ;. o tv., a t*fcad * >. i °( 125 5Tamr^UQ sent his son (Prince 'Kcvwaril) willta great army .to besiege this Castle. The Queeahearing this, fl d t#the Frith of Tain, in I<o.%s«shira; but the Earl of lloss took her. and iierdaughter, and sent them raptives into England.The Castle of Kildrimmy was traitorously burnthy one of the garrison, and all that were thereintaken and hanged, at the command of Edward.Bruce seeing winter approaching, and find*ing no retreat on the main land, retired withhis most entire friend* to his old friend AngusLord of the Isles ; with whom he stayed a shorttime in Kintyie. and thereafter went to thoIsle of itmrghline, where he lurked all thewiutc;-, uhndit every one supposing him dead.The next spring he landed quietly in Carrier^and on i sudden took his own Cas'le of Tqrn-berry, obliging Lord Piercy to fly from it tathis own country. Sir James Douglas departingthence secretly, came into DougIa*dale, andby means of-Thomas Dickson, an cud servant•f his father's, he recovered his #wn Castle ofDouglas, and pulled it down. Thereafter horeturned to Bruce, at Cumnock, and informedhim that Aymer de Vallance and John of LoraVsre coming against him with an army.Bauct, with five hundred valiant men, keptthemselves in a very strong place waith g forSir Aymer, but had no suspicion of John ofi&h*, Idscmg a coumnog) set upon( )b'ick with eight Inftidred highlanders, and Iia4aim oh incio.tc'ii tlrein. Itrucc perceiving theirdanger, put life men into tlu.ec divisions, andafter appdirittng their pijfes or- rendezvous atnight, they' fie:l three sundry' ways; John ofLorn having a sloth-hound, pursued still afterBruce.; who putting away all that were in hiscornpany. save orie man, tied into a wood, andvfhh-great difficulty 'escaped the hound.Sir Aynrier being at this time disappointed,stton after, with 1500 chosen men, attackedBruce fit Gientole-v, ood ; bur. he and his gallant'Companions oouragiously defended themselves,ahd'liavm'g killed most of their first assaulters,the rest tied in great confusion. This victoryencouraged liruee to leave his lurking-places,and to attack the places of'strength in h’ yleand Cunningham,-all of whom he soon reduced.Sir James Douglas also, with sixty-men, lyingin ambush at a strait place in Cunningham,called the Nctherfbrd where 6m* Philip Mem-bray was passing with a thousand men, to attackBruce (being then in Kyle) killed many ol them.,and put tire rest to flight.On -the 10th of May following, Sir Aymer,with 9000 men, came against Brunt-, then lying' in G Alston in'Kyle; Bruce hearing of his com-'Ing albeit he exceeded not BOO men, camo■ ‘forth against him at a place under Loudon-hiiljwivirh 'he so fortified, on every hand, with dyke®and i'ousieSj that the enemy could not inclose( 127 )film on both sides; and so by the stout andresolute valour of this small army, iSir AynierMas put to Ihght; which he took so sore toheart, that he retired into England, and gaveover Iris office cj' Warden, or Viceroy, John oiBritain, Earl of" Kichmond, being sent downto Scotland in his place.Bruce, after this, past into the north, leav¬ing Sir Janies Douglas on the borders, who,taking his own f'astle of Douglas by a strata¬gem. razed it to the ground, and in a few jdayschased all the English out of Douglas Dale,Etlrick Forest, and Jgdburgh Fores!, and tookSir Thomas Randal, the King's, sister’s son,(who bad followed the English ever since hisCaptivity) and Sir Alexander btewar.t of (Junkie.Sir Alexander and Simon Frazer meeting Brucein the north, informed him how Cunltoing,earl of Buchan, David lord Brechin, Sir JohnMwubray. ajid Use.rest, of the Camming faction,were gatlyipug an angy against hing Mean¬while, by the asCstjmcei of i.js, friends, in thesequarters, on a .sudden he surprised thy castleoi Inverness: the lament w(hleh victory qquscdmany other strengths^ to .yield: all widcli heoverthrew, and greatly increased the numberoi his friends, in hrS retnrp, fulling ,siek atInverury, mining set upon him.: the Jving,after Insfriends had tbr some pme defended him,recovering a little took the "field, and so hotlyassaulted the enemy-at Qiidmeldruxu, .that,although their nuaibcri wus'fag greater, he putthevanor flight.v-fl jmU'.A* Cot( liS }With the like Ruccess i’.e set up«n F?<lsva&land his amy at Glenask in Angus;, where theywere shamefully put to flight, and fled intoEngland with Sir John Mouhray, who died#iero shortly after. Lord David llr^-chin for-iilied hi* own castle, but. David, ear!.of Athol,forced him to yield it, and submit himself t»the Kiny. Meantime, Phlip Frazer took th®castlo of Forfar; and the King, pursuing thisvictory, reduced ail the nortli to hi* obeesencejand joining with Lort? James Douglas, returning{corn tlse toutli with ' is two captives, he tookSt. Jelmstoun by surprise.. From tlience ho/ passed into Lorn, the Lord whereof had am¬bushed 1?OCO men on the side of a ste*p hill,where the King behoved to puss through anarrow passage ; but Sir James Douglas,Sir Alexander Frazer, and Sir Andrew Gray,4Bnibtng the hilir'caiua suddenly behind them,and put them to flight. John of Lorn fled irjt®jfngland by sea; Ida father, Lord AlexanderM Dougtd, yielded up himself and the castlo•f DunstaShage to the King. Thu* all, o»the north side of the Fortii, was reduced t®Ira obedieoce.Sir Edward, his brother, in i.he meantime*,jaad conpuered Galloway; and Sir JamesD mglai. by {Iratagem. had lurprifed thekrong Caflle of R xburgh. on Fattern’s-even,while all the garrifon. after the cultom ofthe times, were fealling and rioting' 1 heSyrovs tyhislhj £© scanttr&esd the valiantThoafiW. ( 129 )i '^Tiiomcs Randal, rnsw:y reftored to liiSj Viicfe r. favour, and made B.ari of Murr.av;{ ti.Cit, bavinr; bcQtged iP.tr Caii*e;0.f jLui: Jt>u;;ghfor ftvtral momdis. he let huTilpit. -by ail: means, to earrv the fame; \\ hieh he cbtairesll| by a narrow ptsflage .vthitfh--.be dilcovtrtd,|! un,titrough the rock, tv which he, a: d feVtf-| xal other llous gtntieintn, fecretly pafled up,| and Icalir.g the wall after a long and dai.gr.r-ii om, oppolitiui); they made themielves nailersI cf the fame. •The gandfen of kuherglen, Lanark,. Dumfries. Air Dundee, a d Bute., heating■\ of this, yielded and were all raz^d The1 Jfle of Man alio returned to the obedienceI of the King.Sir Edward Bruce.having befieged the| Caitie of Stirling for three months, ag ec^lv/ith ihe Gaptujn, Sir fhilip Moujaray thatjf idu-.ypri‘i:dicl not relieve him -ffhhin wtlvecl'.aijh? tine realtor, the Cattle Ihould yieldto King Robert. Although this teemeda migiity pnovocation to iuen a powerfulPruisce, as the ion or Edward Lorglhanksthey a? -but far degenerate from Ins valour,having not only England and Ireland, andScots, with the Duchv ofLmgntie,, iJaurdt aux, and feme other j-arpshi iubj^dt to tutu, but alio tim Loy/•nsilsv arf Cottn-( *3® )ufeaaftfi#* •onfVderate v ith him ; yrt Ivirgliobcrt prepared himi'elf for aa encounterevith him,, and colle&ed an arTTi\ of abf;Ut25 000 valiant men Edward'* a rr\ c n-iiied of ab ut 100 oco foot & ic.coo hi rfejwith which multitude (irtercir.^ to dr linythe inhabitant* of .Scotland ana to onk etheir land* rmong hi* follower* he cama*0 Sanqockbarn. three mile* iron) Stirlu g.Kir.g Robert'* arroament bore but a frnaliproportion to that of Edeard’* , but n v-aa»>>tnpo!ed of foldier* who were hardenedky long practice in var. and v ho carried»n the point of th-T‘ Iword Libert) andHonour, ami every thing that was d< arto them. With thefe Robert took up hi*Sat ion in the m ighbt.ur hood of Stirling,and waiteu for Edw'iirU’* arrival.The tw* artnie* came in fight of each•ther in the month of June ; and on th«a iff day of tha» tn6ruh 1314. a mold bloodybattle was fought: m which, tne Scotsobtained a viftory the'moil eeieluatedany tu the anna:* of tb^t kingdom.The proaedure'V,f that ovcr.jr.cmorable*W>mt was ta* **-'iJATTLE OF B\NNOOKBUR^The Englidi army marched from-Editr*i^'j-gh ^Falkirk in or; dav^b;ing 14 miie»^1 and. upjn the morrow, fetting out fromthence toward* Stirling cnr-mped to the1 north vard of the Torwood, abont five mile®iiuorth from Falkirk. .Ab-*dt upper Bannockburn end bac-k wr.r0:j]Upon the Muir of Fiean, in the neighkaur-i hood of the ancient Roman caufewav, piecesl|<>f broken pot*, and othe'r vef7^*. l#ve beec|found; and upon rocks near the iuriac>| marks of fire have been difeovered, wher^Iit. is fuppoted the iolcuers had made readyth ir provifiorj*. Barbour, the, t ofK ng R bert Bruce’s life, fpetk* a* if theire&mp liad tlretched fo far joortfi A-nrd. a* tooccupy a part of the Carfe ground ; and' f#vau a muhitude mult doubtleis have edverefc: a large iraft of ground.The Scottiflt army wa* pok«d about amile to the northward, upon fevere.l emi¬nences, fouth from the prefent rjllrge oifn St. Ninians. Upon the fummic of on©? of thefe eminences, now called'Brock’s Brae,is a Hone funtt into the earth, with a round$ole in it, ner-r three inches i» diamotai.. ( l.n )and union tne same in depth, in which, acoftri-in^ to tradition, King Hohort’s stdlbdard w.i»l:i-. -d, the Royal Tent having heel! ejectednear it. This • sioite* is \reU‘ Known in t'uineighbourhood by the name of Robert’s Staue.The small river of Bannockburn, rent•trk.iblofor its steep and rugged batiks, ran in a narrowvalley between the camps.The Casle of Stirling being still in the handsrtf the English, on the foretnentioned candi- ,tions. tlie day preceding the battle, a stror.gbody uf cavalry, to the numb r of SCO, was'detached treat the English camp, under the iConduct of Lord Clifford, io*the relief of that igarrispn. These having marched through some ]hollow grounds, upon the edge of the C irse,had pis :*-d the Scots army before they were--observed. The King himself was the first that jperceived theta; Tho desired Thomas Randolph, (ear] of Murry, to look towards the place where |they were> and told him that a rose had fallen "jfrom his chaplet. Randolph considering this ’as a reproach because he had the charge of |that part through which the English, had jjmarched, i tinned lately set out alter them, wo.ia party of 500 horse; who doming up withthem in the plain where thq Kjytalj-village ofN 'whouSe now stands,>'a slurp acfidn ensued,in the sight of both armies, and of die garrisonof Stirling, It Was Lwmlrt with valour on hoti; .oide.v/ and !«r aomeJftrtfd doubt'.ill where victoryWRiid' turn. King" Robert, utteuded by som'o ,of. •( i]3 )j o? bis offiarrs, beheld- the .encountar frotai n rising ground', supposed to be the round hillll ir:iuod’mtely upon ti^Vest of St. Nimans, nowr, • c.-iled Cocksliot Hill: -Sir James Douglas| perceiving the distress of Randolph) who wasgreatly inferior to toe enemy in numbers,j desired have to, go to his support, i’his theKing at first refused-, be-.*. Hterwards consenting,I 'Dourdas put his soldiers t'n motion. Observing,:|| however, as lie was on the way. that tiie victory• v.'tts uee-a t!ie point ef being won without his<1 a .ce, its stopped short, tiwt his firieml|| htfight have the unr'valHed glory of it. fb'eLngli#!i were entirely defeated, and many pf| t1 •mi slain.; and R indeiph returned to the•1 catiip i: rwdst acclamations of universal joy.-*—1 To perpetoate the memory of this victory, two1 ctones were reared ur. m the held, and are still1 to he seer, there. Thev stand in a spot v/hicU•-I' has lately been inclosed tor a garden, at thpI north end of the village of New'rouse, and about| a quarter ol a mile from the borouga portd of Stirling.j Th.is victory, gave new spirits to the wholaarmy, and made them so eager for the generali'll Engagement, that the night though amongstII the shortest of the- year: seemed long to them.( Edward too! exasper.rtad at tha defeat of his“I detaenment, v.ats determined Co bring for war vlI tire battle on the morrow. -it length appearedi tliedawn of that mportaut day. w'tilth w-ts todecide whether Scotland was UeacetbccU t<> r>e-ait( *'4 )an talcing tom. or subject to a fftrei^ptj^oke. Early in the morning all whs in motiontn both arm'es ; relk»>’.is sentiment* weremin^leil with the military ardour ot the Scots;a solemn ma»s, in the tn inner of these times,Svas said by the Abbot of [nchadFery. a monas¬tery in Stratijcarn. who ,a!so addrimstered thesacraine’-t to the Kin^ and the principal officers,v,'bile inferior priests did the suite to the restof toe itrmv. After this, they ibratjd in orderof battle on a track of ground caklel NetherToucbad tm. which li-ts along the doolivrty ofz gently rising hdi: 4’nis situation hail - beenpr^viotiilV chosen, because of it.*-advantages..On the right they had a range of steep rocky,iiOvr Called Murray’s Craig; and in their frontw-’re the steep hanks of the rivulet of Bannock¬burn. Not far behird them was a wood, someVestiges of uhiich still remain. Upon the leftwas a morass, now called Miiton-bog, from itsvicinity to'a small village of that name: muchof this bog is still vmdrained, and part of it i?pt present "a mill-dam. As it was then themiddle of summer, it wa? almost rjuite dry;but King Robert had recourse to a stratagem,in order to prevent any attack from t hat quarter.He had ordered many ditches and pits to beducted in the morals, and stake;., sharpenedfit both ends, ta be driven into them, and thewhole t# be covered over again wjth green turf,eo that the ground had still the appearance oifeeing firm. He also caused crow teet, or sharpftoiated ire ns. t« be restored ®v9r the morass;^ eor&r, f >35 )eP t1u*m have been found there mat Rinuyyear* ago. The same manceuvres were likewiseparried on a littio way along the front of thelelt wing; (or there the banks, for about twohundred yards, being more flat than they areany-where else, it was the only place whereshe enemy could pass the river in any order,2iy means of these artificial improvement,joined to the natural strength of' the ground,the Scotch army stood as within on entrench-oient^jand the invisible pits and ditches an¬swered the purpose'of the oconceaied batteries•f more modern times.• Amongst the other occurrences of this me-ii an or able day. historians mention an incident ofi» a singular nature. A> the two armies wereIil about to engage, the Abbot of Inchafferv postil ghimself before the Scots with a crucifix in lbshand, they all fell down upon their knees inthe act ol devotion. The enemy observingthem in so uncommon a posture, conciucleo thatthey were frighted into submission, and thatby kneeling whan they should be ready tofig at, •they meant to surrender at discretion,and only to beg their lives ; but they werasoon Undeceived, when they saw them riseel£a!'1’ and stand to . their arms in the mosttamaunted-iike and courageous manner.I he English began the action, tjy a brisfc.oliarge upon the left wmg .of the Scot, com-■ ■nagged fey JJaadolph near the spot whdreM 2 yi'C( 136 ) *the bridge is now thrswn ov<;r the river*at tlK* strtalfc-visage'«6t' CharteBsIiaU* It vasohi'r tlKtcmbobl' th.it‘t-hi’ Hvbr’doii}fl ba.crot-st dift jwftJHrftk rj'tJtA birt^boilv of cavalry flu aadnwmJti jfcx Jhltrdrit, «biie niiotherfetfcH.-d'» et»«^as.s to>1aii •mioa -his flank andrehr^J hat; heflft'^a tin y eoulit cmht to clo>ethtly thif iirto the :jiW tliat hadbtital laSd, flyr; thotiii. . M-aftv of tiieir t orsesWfljjpsoOtt di#ab!t»d,' by tiibri'trp irthts rusliinjjinto theii'-ftt*** -rtthwffe tur.lbic<V. ii.tirthe e<m-ccuied p twroand cmild not disentar.gtc fhem-eoltvP. ' Pieces iof their harnessfn^. with bitsof broken vpears, and other armour, still con¬tinue to he ‘ting Ontti the bog.. :rn.*r>;v odt bs :>driH--) fIn the beginning-of the engagement an inci¬dent happened, which, though in itself of smallnunhont. was rendered important bv iVi •conse¬quences. King ltobe:t-y1is •nioqtlted fin horse¬back. earn ing a battle'-ak' in his band, and ohIns liebnef he wore A hi;:)! turban, in the formof a crown; byr:isV df iitemVctian. ■•This, to¬gether With his 'activityreruldted bini veryconspibueus [m hC rbtfe before the Aik s : anEngliilrknight. Bfilrtin’i Wtjo wfe rantedamong thr bnrvesf iA rking Edw.tVdV iitavy,came gjfllopiag Ajrhdddy Atp tbdflfn. * inJorderto engage with 'Jjfjn’'wi.t shtglc eoWiH.d, ‘ «:p» c-tmg. by so eminent an act of chivdty.'tit oi^eeto put an end tivilftf^oAitiS t^Yjnit gAhi imc.mhiilrenown toilKuiseif. rbtlt riff*<««1 tArii-pion having imrscd- the first1 UlmV} hnmedi-«( 137 )| aieiy struck dead by - a blow which the kin£: gave him with his battle-ax. This was a soil*i of signal for the charge; rfo bold an attackH u ,. >n their king, fil!ed the Scots with &entiment»ij ef revenge; and the heroic achievement per*i!ij formed by him before their eyes raised tlieis! spirits to the highest pitch. They rushed furUausly upon the enemy, who. having by thistime passed the river in great numbers, gavethem a most intrepid and warm reception.!A singular occurrence, which some accounts{^present aa an accidental sally of patriotic*©«thu»;c>m. others as a pre-metlitated strata*. g:mi of hiing Robert, suddenly altered the tiice1 c- affairs, and contributed great!} to the victory.Ail the servants and attendants of the Scott isharmy, who are said to have amounted to 20,000,, had been ordered, before thy battle, '# retire, behind Murray's craig: and having, duringthe engagement, arranged thetnselves' in nmartial fpnn. they marched to the top of thehill, displaying white sheets fix,i d upon poles,ii instead of banners, and thus marched towardsIthe field of battle with the most hideous shouts!The English perceiving this rnotyly crowd and’taking the n for a fresh reinfimeement ndvan-sing to support the Scots, were seized withso great a panic, that they began to give wayin confusion. ^Buchanan says, that the King of Englandwas the first .who fled ; but in this he contra¬dicts all other historian*, who affirm that hoSOS astODg the last in the field,• TheV( 13* .)Thp Scots pursued, and great tv&s the .slaugh¬ter among the enentV. especially in'passing theriver, wheh: they c ould keep no order, becauseof the irregularity of the ground.Kmg Edward himself escaped with muchdifficulty, b eing closely pursued above fortvmiles by Sir James Douglas, with a party oflight horse. He-was upon tire point of beingtaken .prisoner when-be was received into the icastle of Dunbar, by the earl .of March, whoConveyed him to England, by sea, in a fisher’s'boat! His immense army being entirely dis¬comfited, and altruist'destroyed, those who re- ;mained alive tied to England.■ i -' . ii; ; IIn 'this drtft’dful encounter the Scots are’ said 1to have lost about 4000 men, and the loss of ■..the English abUve J!0,000-5 two Inlndrtd of <;>these, being notileineh and gentlemen, werekilled, and as many taken prisoners. Of theScots there were slain two gentlemen of note.Sir vVilliana VVepont and Sir Walter Ross.After this victory, Stirling castle being givenop, and Dumbarton submitting by capitulation,the earl of March, Lord Soules, Aloernethy,and others of the Oummmgyallies, wetfe recon¬ciled to the who passed into the isles, andbrought "hean ttitobedience, taking Jvdm of Lorncaptive,winvdtbd iopriton in'Lnchtevt'Jv. ThusScotland wiast trefed’ot the bondage of England,except Ikertvick, which r. as recovered feur years, therof tS9 )thereafter, 1313; and the Scot? making diyers•incursions into Liugland,earl I'hoioag Randal,and J,anies Lord Dougins,requitted the liarms. receivjjd iK^ni tiiem;hy!K?re>and thereby enriched themselves with the spoil.n •. , *lbam?:! '••is-wbe?King Robert Riqce died at CiTrdro?g,,,tJitttv. enty-iburlh yetu* ot'.his reigp,. tcvtl-wasdnifitidr.t Duufennkr.e. ,N.ir Janies Douglas i*ttl8xliosen. by the. noblefe- to go with tiie kingsheart to Jerue.de'H, and there to/came.same -to- be burned within die teiqplt#, be^alethe sepulchre of our -Loud, coytonR to-theking's own-direction ; because life laid, vowudto have gone with a great anpy,- in, dpfbnct} ofthe Christian faith, against the Turks andSaracens; if he had not tlienbttn hindredorstayedby wars at borne, and now prevented by dt;at:i,;dir Janies Douglas willingly obeyed, as lie hadmost faithfully served Robert during his life,.and inclosing his heart in a case of. gold, em¬balmed with sweet spices, and precious oint¬ments. accompanied with £>ir William fSaaciair,and Sir Robert Logan, with many other nobleand vabaut men, set olfaftti buried the said heartwith great reverence and solemnity at the placeappointed;- thoreibre the Dougkisses bear thebloody heart in their arms on coat., ThereafterDevglas with his noble and valiant men, accom¬panied with'other Christian princes then present,many times obtained great victories against theTurks ami Saracens; so that by his frequentvictories lie purchased great honour to the. 'I Chris.-( 14® )Christian na?»e: returning1 home, he ca* oWiaftt&by tempestuous winds to land in Spain uponthe borders of Granada, where he assisted thekyi-: of \rragon in ois wars against the Saracens,and obtained gn a* victories. At last beingnegligent of 'oimself, he was inclosed in an am¬bush. purposely laid for him by the Siracens;w rebv he and his men, most gallantly defend-fng them? Ives were vanquished and killed, wit'*all bis nobles and valiant men. Thu# ended thaCoble and valiant Douglas, one of the most*worthy and'renowned knights that wa# in hi*days, ft is chronicled, that he was victoriou.5against the Turks and Saracens thirteen times,and against Englishmen in battle Stty-seve*times. In memory of the Douglas, in oui tima,tiiere was a port or gate in D mskin, called th*Dou :ius- Port, now r^-edided sumptuously, call¬ed the tdochitidure, or high-port: Also thereare sundry earls in the eastern parts of that name,and especially one was called grave «r eaesScotus a great necromancer; Ids title wasJeronimos Scotus, grave or earl of Dou^ma;His brethren dwelt in Italy.David Bruce succeeded his father, in th$year 1330. He being then but seven yearsof age, Thomas Randal, then earl of Murray*and a very valiant man, was continued governor;for he ruled all Scotland the last four years ofUobeiVs reign: under whose government theof Scotland flourkdmd in wealth and riches;ft£( 141 )lt For tbe rash-bush keeped tlie cow.” Edwa/Stof England being advertised thereof arid envy-in:-; the prosperous estate of the See ^ thoughtgood to attempt that by fiighjt, which he couldnot dq by fq;ce; and finding a irsprik fit for tinspurpose, tyho did j^oiptse to poison the afore¬said governor, the monk feigned him to bea physician, apd.to,curt: the stone and grave!,whyrewitli the governor was sore vexed; andbeing io credit with the eari, ait last he poisoriedhint; howbeit, at the first it took no ciBeci.'Ehe monk returning to i£d ard. friewfdhim how nts had poif med the govtfnbr :w ho, imirediately raifing a great ar my,came to the borders. i he Eaii being ad-vertifed thereof,.rttib d anoyper g? ea; uir-.y,and as ha was not able to rkle. po>r go., hewas carried in a iit'er. .Edward hearingthat tlic Eari was there in pe.ricir cootrajyto his expfic -ati n fent a kt.-raid'tro the Eari,to intreat f -r a CbeV erfeit peace. TheGovernor finoirg riVnifn-tf vt-ry week andh.drirg of the ile.ni'l'a’s c-firifr^g arrayedhitnle t in fu-uptuou* tVdpafei. ’ihur ‘it mightappear he wiu rather recovered thrip weakai^d lecr lc; and <n\ir.z a n. n p and bohiai-iwer t-c- w;e h-.bg.ftay?c riy ■■ *tiiat u»e C^overa.ojr j.cqiiti, ve^yeytutd duiji.ifihc l.rs.iririy.,-4t-d ihs monk:t»( *4* )t# ns b-irviad for dctjeiving of his Prlns*.-*^Th • G ^«rnor rttarning home, tiled atMaiT jurgh.'and wa» buritd at Danf«rmliu<s.in the year ijj i.Aftej* his death Fatviek earl of Mareand Davi i, ea' l of iMar, were cholen Gover¬nors. Edward Ha'ioi. sfifi td by Edward,and many Scotch fugitives m England,proniifing to hold the crown of Edward,a n re red -ie-v land by fea. accompanied bythe lord Staff d, and di' «r» other captainsjmt viihitan tmg a contrail of marriage ha-%wixi kii g Drvid and Edward’s ir.er.The Earls of Mar and March, governors,yaifed t vo mignty armies, to reiilt BaljoUB h il came near to the water of Ern, and -jthe E 1 of Mar encamped w ithih light ofthe E gliih army, ".Setirg their numberbur fmad he took but little care of hirnltlf.Bali >1, in the right, palled the water of E' n,and having .intelligence of the ford, by aftrke fet up on purpol'e. he entered the Earlet Ma’’» camp, and killed him in hi* bed,vi'h m-my other nobles, and partict'larly£. bert ihrucc, earl of Carnck, Aleian* eyErafer, knight, William llay cunituble ofScotland, with ail hi* lineage. It entiiely,that had not his wife been wi h child, andaltar wards (klivaicd of o l«n, all his Inr-1 naaie( M3 )sftV«e had becT utterly extinguifiied: .alfo,Robert Keitfa, marfnai with sundry otherr.oblemcn and comm m and many weretaken prisoner* l>aiiol immediattly be-f!eo;ed P rrh ars'd entered it by foice. -lheKarl of March, the other governor, btit gencamped st Ochttrr.icer, and hearii g ofthe deatii of the Karl of Mar. and the takingof the town of Perth, eafne with hi* aimyend befuged the faid town, and fi led thecitche*, i > that i-f^hejhnd given the nflauit,he might have entered it; but he luddenlyrailed the fiege, to the great injury of th©tvhole nation.KING ROBERT BRUCE* ADDRESSTO HI* ARMY, AT BANNOCKBURN.fjcor*, wha hae wi’ Walkce bled,Rcat*, wham Bruce has rd'ten Led,‘Welcome to your gory bed,. Or to glorious viflory !Now’* the day. and now’* the hourjBee the front of battle lour 1See npproaeh proud Edward’* pow’r JEdward—chains and liaverylVv h& will.be a traitor Knave?Wha can .fill & poward’* grave ?Wha iae bafe a* be a Have ?Ttaiiar, coward, tarn ana Has t( J44 5‘ WALLACE'S LAMENTattefi the battlb oi?*rn&v dark tvindinsj Carron, once pi easing to Ii'o me thou canst never give pleasure again, >•My brave Gaiedonians tic iov/ on the lec, *A\id thy streavus are deep ting’d with tli»: ,, 1bieud ol the shun !fwas b.tsc-iici'ted tree-'diery that doom’d c-cr. doing !Mf popfhlecdir.g count.n%.what more can I dc? iEv n Valour looks p::« o er the rrct field Ol’rulisi ■And I'reedonj hehoidsherbe^l warriors laid low. 1Farewcl, rhy dear partner?.oC peril, farewcl!rho’ buried ye lie in one wide Moody grave, |Your Heeds r!; a 1 leu ibai vs thepfece vdieVe fee ibl!, ...iAmi your tiaiyei be er.: oil’d with the sons of 1the brave. ' ' 1But I, a poor outer-•, io tJ-iie must '.rand-- * ; '||Perliaps, like a traitor,.ignobly n>i.A die!On thy. wrongs.0ray couatn ! indlgr.ant I ponder,-ah ■ woe to the hour whuatay \VaEuee must rly !Jrintg.J.Vr.?4'Vi, T. Ji,k;hte;i: Piinle- ,K