NARRATIVEOF THEBattles of Ijrurdclog,ANDBOTH WELL BRIDGE;The former fought on the 1st, "d the latter onthe 22d of Jufle, 1679.Between the Kings Troops, and theCovenanters.BY THE LAIRD OF TO It FOOT,An Officer in the Presbyterian rr.ny.Falkirk :Printed by T. Johnston' 1828.^L|f .OF SCOTLAND 'THEBATTLE OF DRUMCLOG.The following Account of the Tattles ofDrumclog,and Botiiwell Bridge, is taken from an Arnei icanNewspaper, the ‘ National Gazette.’ It is writ¬ten bv the Lsird of Torfoot, an officer in thePresbyterian army, whose estate is at this dayin the possession of his lineal descendants of tiiefifth generation.T was on a fair Sabbath morning, 1st June1679, thr.t an assembly of Covenanters satdown on the heathy mountains of Drumclog. Wehad assembled not to fight, but to worship theGod of our fathers, We were far from the tumultof cities —The long dark heath waved around us ;and we disturbed no living creatures, saving thepees-weep and the heather-cock. As usual, we hadcome armed. It was tor self-defence. For desper¬ate and ferocious bands made bloody raids throughthe country, and, pretending to put down treason,they waged war against religion and morals. Theyspread ruin and havoc over the face of bleedingScotland.The venerable Douglas had conr n enced the so¬lemnities of the day. He vifis expatiating on theexecrable evils of tyranny. Our souls were on fireat the umembrunce of our country's sufferings.andthe wrongs of the church. In this moment of ln-3tense feeling, our watchman posted on the neigh¬bouring height fired his carabine, and ran towardthe congregation. He announced the approachof the enemy. We raised our eyes to the minister.“ I have done,” said Douglas, with his usual firm¬ness—“ You have got the theory.—now for thepractice; you know your duty; self-detence is al-, ways lawful. But the enemy approaches.' Heraised his eyes to heaven and uttered a pravci —brief and emphatic,—like the prayer of RichardCameron, “ Lord, spare the green, and take theripe.”The officers collected their men, and placedthemselves each at the head of those of his ownId strict. Sir Robert Hamilton placed the foot intne centre, in three ranks. A company of horse,well armed and mounted, was placed on the left;and a small squadron also on the left. These weredrawn back, and they occupied the more solidground; as well with a view to have a more firmfooting, as to arrest any flanking party that mighttake them on the wings. A doep morass lav betweenus and the grouna of the enemy. Our aged men, ourfemales, and children retired; but they retiredslowly'. -hey had the hearts ami the courage ofthe females and children In those day s of intensereligious feeling, and of sutf ring. Fimy mani¬fested more concern for the fate of relatives, for thefate of the church, than for their own personalsafety. As Ciaverhouse descended the oppositemountain, they retired to the rising ground In therear of our host. The aged men walked with theirbonnets in hand. Their long grey locks waved inthe breeze. They sang a cheering psalm. Themusic was that of the well-known tune of “ Theh'i irtyrs;” and the sentiment breathed defiance—The. music florted down on the wind,—our rne«gave them three cheers as they fell into them ranks.4Never did [ witness such nnfmation in the looks ofmen. For me, my spouse and my little childrenwere in the rear. My native plains, and the hallsof my father, far below, in the deal of Aven, werein full view, from the heights which we occupied.My country seemed to raise her voice—the bleeding••church seemed to wailealoud. ‘And these,' I said,as CJavers and his troops winded slowly down thedark mountains’ side, ‘these are the unworthyslaves, and bloody exectioners, by' which the tyr¬ant completes cur miseries.’Hamilton here displayed the hero. His portlyfigure was seen hastening fron rank to rank. Heinspired courage into cur raw and undisciplinedtroops. The brave Hackstone, and Hall of Haugh-head, stood at the head of the foot, and re-echoedthe sentiments of their Chief. Burley and Clelandhad inflamed the minds of the horsemen on the leftto a noble enthusiasm. My sm n troop on theright needed no exhortation : we were a band ofbrothers, resolved to conqueror .all.The trumpet of Ciavers sounded a loud not ofdefiance—the kettle drum mitred its tumultuous roll they baited—they made a long pause. We couldsee aii officer with four fi!e, conducting 15 personsfrom the ranks, to a knoll on their left 1 couldperceive one in black : it was my friend King, theChaplain at Lord Cardross, who had her n take byCiavers at Hamilton. ‘ Let them be shot throughthe head,* said C’iavcrs, in his usual dry way, ‘ ifthey should offer to run away.’ e could see himview our position with great care. His offierrs*came around him, We soon learned that he washedto treat with us. He never betrayed symptoms ofmercy or of justice, nor offered terms of reconciii-. . . unless when he dreaded that he had met hisivaictn and, even then, it was only a manceuyret j gain time, or to deceive. His flag approached5the edge of the beg. Sir Robert held a flag sae-fed ; had it been, borne by Clavers himself, he hidhonoured it. Tie demand the purpose lor whichhe came. ‘ I come,’ said he, ‘ in the name of hissacred Majesty, and of Colonel Graham, to offer'you a pardon, on condition that you lay down yourarms, and deliver up your ringleaders.’—’ Tell yourofficer,’ said Sir Robert, ’ that we are fully awareof the deception he practises. He is not clothedwith any powert, to treat, nor was he sent out. totreat with us, and attempt reconciliation. TheGovernment Ptgoinst whom we have risen, refusesto redress Our grievances, or to restore to us ourliberties.’ Had the tyrant wished to render usjus-Ice, he bad not sent by the hand of such a feroci¬ous assassin as Claver house. Let him, however,shew his powers, and we refuse not to treat; andwe shall lay down our arms to treat, provided thathe also lay down his. Thou hast my answer.’ ’ It is a perfectly hopiess, case’ said Burley, whllohe called after the flag-bearer—’ Let me add oneword, by your leave, General. Get thee up tothat bloody dragoon, Ciavers, and tell him, thatwe will spare his life, and the lives of his troops,on condition that lie, your Ciavers, lay down hisarms, and the arms of these troops. We will domore, as we have no prisoners on these wild moun¬tains,.we will even let him go on his parole, on con¬dition that he swear never to lift arms against thereligion and the liberties of his country.’ A loudburst of applause re-echoed from the ranks ; andafter a long pause in deep silence, the army sungthe following verses of a psalm :—«‘ There, arrows of the bow hb brake ;The shield, the sword, the war.More glorious thou than hills of prey,More excellent are ar.eThose that were stout of heart are spoii’d,They slept their sleep outright;And none of those their hands did find,That were the men of might.When the report was made to Claverhouse, heg;ue the word with a savage ferocity, ‘ Their bloodbe an their own heads. Be—no quarter—the wrordthis day.’ His fierce dragoons raised a yell, ; nd‘ N® quarter,’ re-echoed from rank to rank, whilethey galloped down the mountain’s side. It is stat¬ed. that Burleigh was heard tosay, ‘ Then be itso-—even let there he ‘ no quarters—at least in my wingof the host. So God send me a meeting,4 cried healoud, ‘ w'th that chief under the white plumbe.- -My country would bless my memory, could mysword give his villainous carcase to the crows.Our raw troops beheld with firmness the ap¬proach of the foemen ; and at'the moment whentire enemy halted to fire, the whole of our footdropped on the heath. Not a man was seen downwhen the order was given to rise, and return thefire. The first rank fired, then kneeling down whilethe second fired. They made each bullet tell. Asoften as the lazy rolling smoke was carried » verthe enemy’s heads, a shower of bullets fell on hisranks. Many a gallant man tumbled on the heath.The fire was incessant. It resembled one blazingsheet of flame, for several minutes, along the lineof the Covenantors. Clavers attempted to crossthe morass, and broke our centre. 4 Spearmen! tothe front,’—l could hear the deep-toned voice ofHamilton say-- 4 Kneel, and place your spears toreceivr the enemy’s cavalry: and you, my gallantfollows fire—Gorf and oar country is our word.’ Our officers flew from rank to rank. Not a peas¬ant give way that day^ As the smoke rolled off,we could see Clavers urging on his men with thew*Unc; of i!e.«jr:ir. His troops fell in iicaps aroundhim, and still the gaps were filled* up A galled#trooper would occasionally flinch ; but ere he couldturn or dee, the sword of Ciavers was waving overi his head. I could see him. in his fury, strike bothf; man and horse. In the fearful carnage: he himselfi sometimes reeled. He would stop short in thei midst of a movemant then contradict his own or-' ders, and strike the man, because he could not: comprehend his meaning.He ordered flanking parties to take us on ourright and left. “ In the name of God,” cried he,“ cross the bog, and charge them on the flanks, tillwe get over this morass. If this fail, we are lost. ’It pow fell to ray lot to come into action---Hitherto we had fired only some distant shot. Aj gallant officer led his band down to the borders ofi the swamp, in search of a proper place to cross.We threw ourselves before him, a severe firingcommenced. My gallant men fired with greati steadiness. We could see many tumbling fromI their saddles. Not content witli repelling the toe: men, we found our oppontunty.to cross, and at¬tack them sword in hand. The Captain, whosename I afterwards ascertained to he Arrol, threwhimself in my path, in the first shock, l diseharg-1 ed my pistols. His sudden start in his saddle, toldme that one of them had taken effect. With oneof the tremendous oaths of Charles It. he dosedwitfi me. He fired his steel pistol. I was iu frontof him My sword glanced on the weapon, andgave a direction to the bul'et, which saved my life,fly this time, my men had driven the enemy be¬fore them, and had left' the ground clear for thesingle combat. As he made a lounge at my breast,I turuod his sword aside, by one of those sweepingblows, which are rather the dictate of a kind ofinstinct of self defence, than a movement of art,—*8As our strokes redoubled, my antagonist’s darkfeatures put on a look of deep and settled ferocity.No man who has not encountered the steel of hisenemy, in the field of battle, can conceive the looksand the manner of the watrior, in the moments ofhis intense feelings, May I never witness themagain ! We fought in silence. My stroke fell onhis lett shoulder ; it cut the belt of his carabine,which fell to the ground. His blow cut me to therib, glanced along the bone, and rid me also of theweight of my carabine. He had now advancedtoo near me to be struck with the swprd. I grasp¬ed him by the collar. I pushed him backwards ;and, with an entangled blow of my Ferara, Istruck him across his throat. It cut only the strapof bis head-piece and it fell olf With a suddenspring, he seized me by the sword belt. Our hor¬ses reared, and we both ctfme to the ground. Weroiled on the heath in deadly conflict. It was inthis situation of matters, that my brave fellow's hadreturned from the rout of the’Manking party, tolook after their commander. One of them was ac¬tually lushing on m^antagonist, when I called onhim to retire. We started to our feet. Each grasp¬ed his sword. We closed on conflict again. Afterparrying strokes of mine enemy which indicated ahellish ferocity, I told him,my object was to takehim prisoner ; that sooner than kill him, I shouldorder my men to seize him. Sooner let my soulbe brandered on my ribs in hell,” said be, ’ thanbe captured by a Whigmore. ’No ^carter’is theword of my Colonel, and my wmrd. Have at theWhig—I dare the whole, of you to the combat.”—Leave the madman to me—leave the field in¬stantly,” said I to my party, whom I could hardlyrestrain. My sword fell on his right shoulder. His sword dropped from his hand.—I lowered myswoed, and offered him his life. ‘ No quarter,’9said he with a shriek of despair, //e snatched hissword, which I held in rny hand, and made a loungeat my breast. I parried bis blows till he was nearlyJ exhausted; but, gathering up his huge limbs, heput forth all his energy in a thrust at my heart.—My A ndro Ferrara received it, so as to weaken its1 deadly force; but it made a deep cut. Though Iwas faint with loss of blood, l lelt him no timefor another blow. My sword glanced on his shoul¬der, cut through his buff coat, and skin, and flesh ;swept through his jaw, and laid open his throatfrom ear to ear. The fire of his ferocious eye wasquenched in a moment.* He reeled, and fallingwith a terrible clash, he poured out his soul, witha torrent of blood, on the heath. I sunk down,insensible for a moment. My faithful men, whonever lost sight of me, raised me up. In the fiercecombat, the soldier suffers most from thirst. Istooped down, to fill my helmet with the waterwhich oozed through the morass. It was deeply, tinged with human blood, which flowed in the con¬flict above me. 1 started back wi«*i horror; andGawn Witherspoon bringing up rny .steed, we satforward in the tumult of the battleAll this while, the storm of war had raged onour left.* Cleland and the fierce Burley had charg¬ed the strong company sent to flank themi Theseofficers permitted them to cross the swamp, then,charged them with a terrible shout. ‘ No quarter,icried the dragoons. ‘ Be no quarter to you, then,ye murderous loons,' cried Burley; and at oneblow he cut their leader through the steel cap, andscattered his brains on his followers. H\s everyblow overthrew a foeman. Their whole forceswere now brought up, and they drove the dragoonsof Clavers into the swamp. They rolled over eachother. All stuck fast. The Covenanters dismount¬ed, and fought on foot. They left not one man tobear the tidings to their Colonel.' 10The firing of the platoons had long ago ceased,and the dreadful work of death was carried on bythe sword. At tint moment, a trumpet was heardm the rear of our army. There was an awful pause,all looked up. It was only the gallant CaptainNesbit, and his guide, Woodburn of Mains: he hadno reinforcements for us, but himself was a host.With a loud huzza, and flourish of his sword, heplaced himself by the side of Burley, and cried,•jump (he ditch, and charge the enemy,’ He andBurley struggled through tne marsh. The menfollowed as they could. They formed, and marchedon the enemy’s right flank.At tliis instant, Hamilton and Hackstone broughtforward the whole line of infantry in front. ‘ Godand our Country re-echoed from all the ranks.—< No quarters said the fierce squadrons of Clavers.— Here commenced a bloody scene.I seized the opportunity this moment offered tome, of makiug a movement to the left of the enemy,to save my fnemd King and the other prisoners.—We came in time to save them. Our sword speedi¬ly severed ths ropes which tyranny had bound onthe arms of the men. The weapons of the fallenfoe supplied what was lacking of arms; and wdthgreat, vigour we moved forward to charge the ene¬my on the left flank. Claverhouse formed a hol¬low square—himself in tire centre. ;his men foughtgallantly ; they did all that soldiers could do intheir situation. Wherever a gap was made, Claversthrust the men forward, and speedily filled it up.Three times he rolled headlong on the heath, as hehastened from rank to rank, and as often he re¬mounted. My little band thinned his ranks. Hepaid us a visit. Here I distinctly saw' the featuresand shape of this far-famed man. He. was smallof stature, and not well formed; His arms werelong in proportion to his legs; he had a complexion11ii unusually dark 5 his features were not lighted upf with sprightliness, as some fabulously reported ;they seemed gloomy as hell; his cheeks were lankand deeply furrowed ; his eye brows were drawndown, and gathered into a kind of knot at their j unc¬tions, and thrown up at their extremities ; they hadin short, the strong expression given by our pain¬ters to those on the face of Judas Iscariot; his eyeswere hollow ; they had not the lustre of genius northe fire of vivacity; they were lighted up by thatdark fire of wrath which is kindled and fanned byan internal anxiety, and consciousness of criminaldeeds; his irregular and large teeth were presentedthrough a smile, which was very unnatural on hisset of features ; his mouth seemed to be unusually' lar; e, from the extremities being drawn backwardand downward—as if in the intense application tosomething cruel and disgusting; in short, his up¬per teoth projected over his under lip, and on thewhole, presented to my view the mouth on theimrge of the Emperor Julian the Apostate.—Inone of his rapid courses past us, my sword couldonly shear off his white plum and a fragment ofhis buff coat. In a moment he was at the otherside of his square. Our officers eagerly sought ameeting with him. ‘ He has the proof of lead.’cried some of our men.—‘ Take the cold steel or apiece of silver.’ ‘No,’ cried Burley, ‘It is hisrapid movement on that fine charger that bids de¬fiance to any thing like an aim in the tumult of thebloody fray. I could sooner shoot ten heathercooks on the wing, than one flying Cl avers ’ Atthat moment, Burley, whose eye watched his an¬tagonist’pushed into the hollow square. But Bur¬ley was too impatient. His blow was levelled athim before he came within its reach. His heavysword descended on the head of Clavers’ horse, andfelled him to the ground Burley’s men rushed12pell-mell on the fallen Ciavers, but his faithful dra¬goons threw themselves upon them, and by theiroverpowering force drove Burley back. Ciaverswas in an instant, on a fresh steed. His bugiemanrecalled the party who were driving back theflanking party of Burley. He collected his wholetroops to make his last and desperate attack—Hecharged our infantry with such force, that they be¬gan to reel. It was only for a moment, The gal¬lant Hamilton snatched the white flag .of the Co¬venant, and placed himself in the fore front of-thebattle. Our men shouted ‘Goo? and our Country.and rallied under their flag. They fought like he¬roes. Cluvers fought no less bravely. His blowswere aimed at our officers. His steel fell on thehelmet of Hackstone, whose sword was entangledin the body of a fierce dragoon who had justwounded him. He was borne by his men into therear. I directed my men on Ciavers. ’ Victoryor death,’ was their reply to me. Ciavers receivedus. He struck a desperate blow at me, as he raisedhimself, with all his force, dn the saddle. My steelcap resisted it. The second stroke I received onrhy Ferrara and his steel was shivered to pieces.We rushed headlong on each other. His pistolmissed fire—it had been soaked in blood. Minetook effect. But the wound was not deadly. Ourhorses reared. We rolled on the ground. In vainwe sought to grasp each other. ' In the mdc, menand horse tumbled on us. We were for a few mo¬ments buried under our men, whose eagerness tosave their respective officers brought them in mul¬titudes down upon us. By the aid of my faithfulman Gawn, I had extricated myself from my fal¬len horse ; and we were rushing on the bloody Cla-vers, when we were again literally buried under amass of men ; for Hamilton had by this time broughtup his whole line, and he had planted his standardwhere we a-d Clavers were rollinsr on the heath.4 ^ •Our men gave three cheers and drove in the troopsof ClaVers. //ere I was borne along with the reov-i ing mass of men ; and. almost suffocated, and faintir with the loss of blood, I knev/ nothing more till Iu opened my eye on my faithful attendant. Z/e.had1 dragged me from the very grasp of the enemy, andhad borne me into the rear, and was bathing mytemples with water. We speedly regained ourfriends ; and what a spectacle presented itself!—It.S seemed that I beheld an immense moving massheaped up together in the greatest confusion.—1 Some shrieking, some groaned, some shouted, hor¬ses neighed and pranced, swords rung on the steel1 helmets. I placed around me a few of my hardymen, and we rushed into the thickest of the enemyi in search of Clavers , but it was in vain. At tliatinstant his trumpet sounded the loud rotes of re-j treat; and we saw on a knoll Clavers borne away1 by his men. He threw himself on a horse, andwithout sword, without helmet, he fled in the firstranks of their retreating host, //is troops galloped! up the hill in the utmost confusion. My little lineclosed with that of Burleys, and took a number ofprisoners. Our main body pursued the enemy twomiles, and strewed the ground with men and hor¬ses. I could see the bareheaded Clavers in frontof his men kicking and struggling up the stfeepsides of Calder hill. He halted only a moment onthe top to look behind him, then plunged his row¬els into his horse, and darted forward : nor did herecover fronvhis panic till he found himself in thecity of Glasgow.”And, my children,’ the Laird would say, afterhe had told the adventures of this bloody day, ‘Ivisited the field of battle next day ; I shall neverforget the sight. Men and horses lay in their gorybeds. I turned away from the hpnible spectacle."14I passed by the spot where God saved my life inthe single combat, and where the unhsppy CaptainArrol fell, I observed that, in the subsequent fray,the body had been trampled on by a horse, and hisbowels were poured out. Thus, my children, thedefence of our lives, and the regaining of our li¬berty and religion, has subjected us to severe trials.And how great must be the love of liberty, whenit carries men forward , under the impulse of self-defence, to witness the most disgusting spectacles,and to encounter the most cruel hardships of war !’B.Battle of Bothwell Bridge.“ Heu! victajacet pietas.”* * * After the ranks of the patriotic Whigswhere broken by overwhelming forces, and whileDalzell and Clavers swept the south and west ofScotland like the blast of the desart, breathing pes¬tilence and death—the individual wanderers betookthemselves to the caves and fastnesses of their rug¬ged country. This was their situation chiefly fromA. D 1680 to the Revolution. The Laird spenthis days in seclusion; but still he fearlessly attend¬ed the weekly assemblies in the fields, for the wor¬ship of Almighty God. What had he to fear?—His estate had been confiscated. His wife and babesstript by the life-guards of the last remnant olearthly comfort which they could take away; andhimself doomed, as an outlaw, to be executed bythe military assassins when taken. He becamereckless of the world-‘I have lived.’ said he in anguish, ’ to see aPrince twice, of his own choice, take the oath ot15the coven a.ts to support religion, and the funda¬mental laws of the land. I have lived to see thatI Prince turn traitor to his country, and, with un-I blushing impiety, order these covenants to be burn-I ed by the hands of the executioner 1 have seenI him subvert the liberty of my country, both civil!| and religious—I have seen him erect a bloody in¬quisition. The priest imposed on us by tyranny.1 instead of wooing us over by the loveliness of reli¬gion, have thrown off the bowels of mercy. Theyoccupy seats in the bloody Council. They stimu¬late the cruelties of Lauderdale, M‘Kenzie andYork. Their hands are dipt in blood to the wrests.This Council will not permit us to live in peace,Oour property they confiscate. Our houses thoyconvert into barra‘ ks, Thev drap' free men intochains. They bring no witnesses of our guilt.—They invent new tortures to convert us. They em¬ploy the thum-screws and bootkins. If we aresilent they condemn us. If we confess our Chris-tion creed, they doom us to the gibbet. Not onlyour sentanca, but the manner of our execution, isfixed before our tmal. Clavers is our judge; hisdragoons are our executioners ; and these savagesdo still continue to employ even the sagacity ofblood hounds to hunt us down.—My soul turnsaway from these loathsome spectacles.’At this moment his brother John entered, withlooks which betrayed unusuai anxiety. ‘ My bro¬ther,’ said h e, a trooper advances at full speed,and he is followed by a dark column . We havenot even time to fly’ The mind of the Laird likethose of the rest of the wanderers, always bright¬ened up at the approach of danger. ‘ Let ns re¬connoitre,’ said he, ‘ What do I see,but one troop¬er. And that motley cloud is but a rabble—not atroop. That trooper is not of Clovers’ band ; nordoes he belong to Douglas—nor to Ingles—nor to16Strachan’s dragoons. Hu wares a small flag. Ican discover the scarlet and blue colour of the Cov¬enanters’ flag—Ha! welcome you, John //owie ofLochgoin— But what news ?—Lives our country ?Lives the good old cause?—’ Glorious news,’ex¬claimed /Jowie. ’ Scotland for ever ! She is free.The tyi'ant James has abdicated. The Stuarts arebanished by an indignant nation. Orange triumphs,Our wounds are binding up.—Huzza! Scotland,and King William and the Covenant for ever !_The Laird made no reply. Hz laid his steel capon the ground and threw himself on his knees ; heuttered a brief prayer, of which this was the close:’ My -bleeding country, and thy wailing Kirk, andmy brethren in the furnace, have coma in remem¬brance before thee. For ever lauded be thy name.,—’Hasten to the meeting at Lesmahagow. Ourfriends behind me, you see, have already set out,’said Howie. And he set off with enthusiastic ar¬dour to spread the news., These news,' said the Laird, after a long pausewhile his eyes followed the curser over the plainsof Aven—’ These news are to me as life from thedead. I have a mind to meet my old friends atLesmahagow. And then, when serious business isdispatched, we can take Bothwell field in our re¬turn. It will yield me at least a melancholy plea¬sure to visit the spot where we fought, I trust, ourlast battle against the enemies of our country, andof the good old cause.Serious matters of church and state having beendiscussed at the public meeting, the brothers foundthemselves, on the fourth day, on the battle groundof Bothwell. j.’ On that moor,’ said the Laird, after a long sil¬ence—and, without being conscious of it, he had,by a kind of instinct, natural enough to a soldier,drawn his sword, and was pointing with it—! Onii! that moor the enemy first formed under Monmoaith,There, on the right, Clavers led on the life-guards,i« breathing fur and resolute to wipe off the disgrace' of the affair of Drumclog. Danzell formed his men| on that knoll. Lord Livingstone led the van of theI foemen. We had taken care to have BothwellI Bridge strongly secured Oy a barricade, and ouri| little battery of cannon was planted on that spotd below us, in order to sweep the bridge. And wen did rake it. The foemen’s blood streamed there.; Again and again the troops ef the tyrant marched' on, and our cannon annihilated their columns. Sir! Robert Hamilton was our Commander-in-Chief.—The gallant General Hackstone stood on that spotwith his brave men. Along the river, a-nd abovethe bridge, Burley’s foot and Captain Nesbit’s dra¬goons were stationed. For »ne hour we kept theenemy in check ; they were defeated in every at¬tempt to cross the Clyde. Livingstone sent anotherstrong column to storm the bridge. I shall neverforget the effect of one fire from our battery, wheremy men stood. We saw the line of the foe advancein all the military glory of brave and beautiful men;the horses pranced—the armour gleamed. In cnemoment nothing was seen but a shocking mass ofmortality. Human limbs, and the bodies andlimbs of horses were mingled in one huge heap, or'blown to a great distance. Another column at¬tempted to cibss above the bridge. Some threwthemselves into the current. One well-directed fire,from Burley’s troops threw them into disorder,and drove them back. Meantime, while we werethus warmly engaged, Hamilton was labouring tobring down the different divisions of our main bodyinto action ; but in vain he called on Colonel Clel-and’s troop—in vain he ordered Henderson’s to fallin—in vain he called on Colonel Fleming’s. Hack-stone flew from troop to troop—all was confusion ;r vain he {jescmsrbt, he intrsatecl, ho threatrnsd IOur disputes and fiery misguided zeal, my brother, Jcontracted a deep and deadly gult that day. The IWhig turned Ids arm in fierce heat that day against Ihis o«vn vitals. Our Chaplains, Cargil, and King,and Kid, and Douglas, interposed again and again,Cargil mounted the pulpit; lie preached concord ;he called aloud for mutual forbearance. ( Behold,the banners of the enemy,’ cried he. ‘ hear ye notthe fire of the foe, and of our own brethren ? Ourbrothers and fathers are falling beneath their sword.Hasten to their aid. See the flag of the Covenant,See the motto in letters of gold --‘Christ’s Crownand the Covenant.’ Hear the wailings of the bleed-Kirk. Banish discord. And let us, as a band ofbrothers, present a bold front to the foeman—Fol¬low me, all ye who love your country and the Co¬venant. I go to die in the fore-front of the battle.All the ministers and officers followed him—amidsta flourish of trumpets—hut the great body remain¬ed to listen to the harangues of the factious—We sent again and again for ammunition. My menwere at the last round. Treache’ </, or a fatal error, had sen a barrel of raisins instead of powder.My heart sunk within me while I beheld the despairon the faces of my brave fellows, as I struck outthe bead of the vessel. Hackstone called his offi¬cers to him. We threw otirselvcs around him.- —‘ What must be done ?’ said he, in an agony of ds-spair. ‘ Conquor or die -’ we said, as if with onevoice. ‘ We have our swords yet. Lead back themen to their places s.nd let the ensign bear downthe blue and scariet colours. Oar God and ourcountry be the word.’ Hackstone rushed forward,We ran to our respective corps- -we cheered ourmen, but they were languid and dispirited. Theirammuniton was nearly' expended, and they'seemedts to hu<band19wh:it remajoed.They foughtwith their ca?abines, 'fiie cannons could nobe loaded. The enemy soon perceived this,ijasw a troop of horse approach the bridge. Ithat of the life-guards. I recognized the plumeliavefs. The*’ approached in rapid march. A>1 column of infantry followed. I sent a requestCaptain Nesbittojoin his troop to mine. HeiJ in an instaint with us.—-We charged the life-rds. Our swords rung on their steel caps—-tiny of my brave lads fell on all sides of me. Buthewed down the foe. They began to reel.—e whole column was kept stationary on thedge. Clavers’ dreadful voice was heard —more: the yell of a savage, than the commandingjce of a soldier. He pushed forward his men,jji again ws hewed them down. A third masss pushed up. Our exhausted dragoons fled.—supported, I found myself by the brave Nesbit,d Paton, and Hackstone. We looked for a mo-ant's space in silence on each other. We gallop-i in front of our retreating men. We ralliediiiom. We pointed to the General almost alone.e pointed to the white and to the scarlet coloursfloating near him. We cried, ‘ God and our Coun¬ty They faced about. We charged Claversfence more.—1 Torfoot,4 cried Nesbit, 41 dare you.jni the fore-front of the battle.4 We rushed up atfull gallop. Gur men seeing this, followed also atfull speed —We broke down the enemy's line, bear¬ing down those files which we encountered. Wejeut cur way through their ranks, ftut thoy hadjnow lengthened their front. Superior numbersdrove us in They hade gained entire possession ofI the bridge. Livingstone and Dalzeil were actuallytaking us on the flank — A band had got betweenus and Burley’s infantry. 4 My friends.1 said Hack-stone to his officers, we are last on the field. We20can do no more.—We must retreat.—Let us stempt, at least, to bring aid to the deluded me1 tbehind us. They have brought ruin on themselvtand on us. Not Monmouth, but our own divisior ■have scattered us.’At this moment one of the life-guards aimed »■'-blow at Hackstone. My sword received it—and tstroke from Nesbit laid the foeman’s hand anlssword in the dust. He fainted and tumbled fro) ihis saddle. We reined our horses, and gallope !to our main body. But what a scene presente iitself here ! These misguided men had their eye know fully opened on their fatal errors. The enem, >where bringing up th/dr whole force against thenI was not long a near spectator of it; for a bal.grazed my courser. He plunged and reared—thenltshot off like an arrow. Several of out officers drew*;to the same place. On a knoil we faced aoout—the battle raged below us. We beheld our com :mander doing evey thing that a brave soldiei >could do with factous men against an overpowering foe. Burley and his troops were in close con- ifliet with Clavers1 dragoons. We saw him dis¬mount three troopers with his own hand. He could inot turn the tide of battle, but he was covering the ;retreat of tirese misguided men. Before we couldlrejoin him, a party threw themselves in our way., tKennow-ay, one of Clavers’ officers led them on.’ Would to God that this was Grahame himself,’some of my comrades ejaculated aloud. ’ He fallsto my share,1 said I, ‘ whoever the officer be.‘—I advanced—he met me. I parried several thrust,He received a cut on the left arm ; and the swords |lby the same stroke, shore off one of his horse’s Iears ; it plunged nad reared. We closed again. .I received a stroke bn the left shoulder. My blow ||fell on his sword arm. He reined his horse around |lretreated a few paces, then returned at full gallop ||21My courser rearel instinctively as he approached,11 received his stroke on the back of my ferrara ;ml and by a back stroke, l gave him a deep cut onthe cheek. And before he could recover a position| of defence, my sword fell with a terrible blow onhis steel cap. Stunned by the blow, he bent him-i'i self forward—and, grasping the mane, he tumbledi fiom his saddle, and his steed galloped over thefield, i aid not repeat the blow. His left hand1 presented his sword ; Ids right arm was disabled :i his life was given to him My companions having(disposed of their antagonists, (and some of themihad two a piece,) we paused to see the fate of the'battle. Dalzell "nd Livingstone were riding overthe field, like furies, cutting down all in their way11Monmouth was galloping from rank to rank, and'Calling on his men to give quarter. Ciavers, toi(wipe off the disgrace of Drumclog, was commit-Jting fearful havoc, ‘ Can we not find Ciavers,said Halhead.—’No,’ said Captain Paton, ’the gal¬lant. Colonel takes care to have a solid gaurd of hisiroguts about him I have sought him over the. field ; but I found him, as I now perceive him,jwith a mass of his “guards about him.’ At this in-istant we s*w our General, at some distance, dis-i(entangling himself from the men who had tumb¬led over him in the melt. His face, and hands, andiclolhcs, were covered with gore. He had beendismounted, and was fighting on foot. We rush-i ed to the spot, and cheered him. Our party droveback the scattered bands of Daizell. ‘ My friends,’tsaid Sir Robert, as we mfanted him on a strayjhorse. ‘ the day is lost! But—you, Paton ; youBrownlee of Torfoot. and you Halhead ; let notthat flag fall into the hands of these incurnate de-;vils. We have lost the battle, but by the gracelot God, neither Dalzel. nor Ciavers shall say thatihc took our colours. My ensign has done his duty22He is down. This sword has saved it twice. Ileave it to your care. You see its perilous situa¬tion.’ He pointed with h;s sword to the spot. We collected some of our scattered troops, and flewto the place, t he standard beajer was down, buthe was stiil fearlessly grasping the flag staff, whilehe was borne upright by the mass of men who hadthrown themselves in fierce contest around it. Itswell known blue and scarlet colours, and its motto,‘Chhist’s crown and covenant,’ in brilliant gold*ft!letters, inspired us with a sacred enthusiasm.—We gave a loud cheer to the wounded ensign, and 3 >:rushed into the combat. The redemption of that iflag cost the foe many a gallant man. They fell Itbeneath our broad swords ; end, with horrible ex¬ecrations dying on their lips, they gave up their Rsouls to their Judge.Here I met in front that ferocious dragoon of tClavers, named Tam Halliday, who had morethan once, in his raids, plundered my halls; andlhad snatched the bread from my weeping babesHe had just seiaed the white staff of the flag. Buthis tremendous oath of exhultation, (we ot the co¬venant never swear)—his oath had»ca;cely passedits polluted threshold, when this Andro Ferrarrafell on the guard of his steel and shivered it tcpieces. ‘ Recreant loon ?’ said I, ‘ thou shall thiscay remember thy evil deeds.’ Another blow orhis helmet laid him at his huge length, and madehim Lite the dust. In the me/e that followed. I lostsight of him. We fought like lions—but with th*li>hearts of Christians. While my gailant companion:stemmed the tide of battle, the standard, rent t<tatters, fell across my breast. I tore it from thistaff, and wrapt it round my body. Wc cut ou:way through the enemy, and carried our Generaoff the field.Having gained a utrcll 1 noli, *e beheld oneCi,lUn.23more the dreadful spectacle belovr. Thick volumesof smock and dust rolled in a lazy cloud over thedark bands mingled in deadly fray. It was noni longer a oatt'.e, but a massacre. In the struggleItf my feelings I turned my eyes on the Generaland Paton. I saw, in the face of the latter,, anindiscnbable conflict of passions. His long andI shaggy eye-brows were drawn over his eyes. Hishand grasped bis sword. ‘ I cannot yet leave thefield,’ said the undaunted Paton—‘With the Gene-i| ral's permission, I shall try to save some of our! wretched men beset by those hell-hounds. Whowill go ?—At Kilsyth I saw service. When de¬serted by my troops, I cut my way through Mon-i trose’s men, and reached the spot where ColonelsI Halket and Strachan were. We left the field to-I gether. Fifteen dragoons attacked us. We cuti down thirteen, and two fled. Thirteen next as-4a sailed us. We left ten on the field, and three fled,d Eleven Highlanders next met us. „ We paused, and:» cheered each ether: ‘Now, Jonny,’ cried Halketill to me. ‘put forth your metal, else we are gone,’( Nine others we sent after their comrades, and twofled Now. who wijl join this raid !’* ‘I willbe your leader.’ said Sir Robert, as we fell intot the ranks.We marched on the enemy’s flank. ‘ Yonder is> Clavers,’ said Paton, while he directed his coursert on him. The bloody man was, at that moment,nearly alone, hacking to pieces some poor fellowsalready on their kness disarmed, and imploringhim by tile common feelings of humanity to spareThis chivalrous defence is recorded, I find in the life ofCajitiiiii I’aton, in the ‘ Scots Worthies,’ Edin, edit of A- 1).1812. This celebrated Officer was trained up to warfare iathe army of Charles Gustnvus, King of Sweden. This Isaspecimen of those heroic W higs who breught about R»-volution of A. 1). 10S8.h24their lives, //e hnd just finished his usual oathagainst their ‘feelings of humanity,’ when Patonpresented himself. He instantly let go his preyand slung back into the midst of his troopers. Wav¬ing formed them, he advanced.— VVe formed, andmade a furious onset. At our first charge his troopreeled. Clavers was dismounted.— Hut at that mo¬ment Dalzel assailed us on the flank and rear.—Our men fell around us like grass before the mow¬er. Tht'buglemen sounded a retreat. Once morein the mele I fell in with the General and Paton,* vre were covered with wounds. VVe oirected ourflight in the rear of our broken troops. By the di¬rection of the General I had unfurled the standard.It was borne off the field flying at the sworu’spoint. But that honour cost me much. I was as¬sailed by three fierce dragoons ; five followed closein the rear. I called to Paton,— in a moment hewas by my side. 1 threw the standard to the Ge¬neral, and we rushed on the foe. T1 ey fell beneathcur swords; but my faithful stee<:, which had car^ricd me through all my dang-rs, was mortaiiywounded. He fell. I was thrown in among thefallen enemv. I fainted. I opened my eyes onmisery. I found myself in the presence of Mon¬mouth—a prisoner—wifti other wretched creatures,awaiting, in awful suspenee, their ultimate des-t iny • ^ ♦W. c. BFINIS