THEVoyages and AdventuresOF THE RENOWNEDADMIRAL DRAKE,WHQSailed Round the IVorldt• AND ASSISTED IN DESTROYINGTHE SPANISH ARMADA,WHICH CAMETo Invade England in the Reign ofQueen Elizabeth.KILMARNOCK:Printed by H. Crawford, Book sella1827.THE LIFE, VOYAGES & ADVENTURES-OFSir Francis Drake.I FRANCIS DRAKE was the son of Eimund^ Drake, a sailor, and born -near Tavistock irnDevonshire, in the year 154-5. He was the eldesiof twelve sons, and brought up at the expencejand under the care of Sir John Hawkins, a kins-jman. At the age of 18, he was made purser oi:a ship trading to Biscay •, at' 20 he went a voydage to Guinea; and at 22, had the honour to b«made Captain of the Judith. In that capacity hiwas in the harbour of St. John de Usloa, in tinGulph of Mexico, where he behaved with grea;gallantry, under Sir John Hawkins, when thateminent Commander was so treacherously usertby the Spaniards j and he returned to Englan-with great reputation, though not worth a groat.$Upon this he conceived a design of making rejpyisais on the King of Spain t which, accoiuiiijto some, was put into his head by the Minister o;-his ship; and to be sure, says Dr. Campbell, i<sea-divinity the case was clear. The King cSpain’s subjects had undone Mr. Drake, and there,!foie he was entitled to take the best and readie^satisfaction he could obtain of his enemies.scheme of his was so acceptable to the public, thmhe no sooner made his design known, than he na»numbers of volunteers ready to accompany himAccordingly he made his first expedition in 157(1with two ships ; and the next year with one onl|in which he returned safe, if not with all the au.vintages that he expected. But there is no ancount af what he performed in these voyages.3! Captain Drake soon after laid the plan of a morenportant design, with respect both to himself andp his enemies. This he put in execution on the4th of May, 1572; on which day he sailed fromjiymoulh, himself in a ship called the Pascha, of<0 tons burthen, and his brother John, in therwan, of 25 tons. In both vessels he had 73 menrnd boys, with provisions for a year, together withhfficient artillery and ammunition; and also threeinnaces, framed in such a manner, as to be putpgether wherever he might have occasion forstem. And with these ships he hoped to mak*rood the losses he had sustained from the Spaniards11 the West Indies. He had so prosperpus a voy-s^e, that on the 28th of June he had sight of 'Siuadalupe ; and sailing between that island and’'ominica, towards the continent, he directed hi*nurse towards a bay, which, in a former voyage,e had called Port Pheasant. Here he arrived onIie 12th of July, and having moored his ships,t the carpenters to work to frame the pinnaces,he next day there came into the same bay, annglish bark, of the Isle of Wight, commandedy Captain James Rawse, with a caraval and auop with oars, which he had taken from thepaniards. Rawse, who had several men on boardtat had sailed with Drake on a former voyage,teing informed of his designs against the Spaniardshs willing to join with him; and Drake, uponf:rtain conditions, admitted them.! Captain Drake departed from Port Pheasantn the 20th of July, and in three days came toie island of Pinas : Hue he found two frigatesbelonging [0 Nombre de Dios; and from theNegroes who were in these frigates, he got ai articular account of the itate of that town,4which he was resolved to attack : And havingmade every thing ready for the execution of hisidesign, he left the command of the three shipsand the caraval to Captain Raxse, and himse fto command the three pinnaces, and Ra'^se s;shallop, taking 20 of his men, and 53 of his owj .jOn the 28th he arrived at the island of Catuva%where he landed ; and having trained hko men*!he gave them their several aims, which, tili thenjhad not been unpacked, and were as follows, viz.,$ targets, 9 fire-pikes, 12 pikes,’ 24 musioets andicallivers, 16 bows, and 6 partirms, with 2 drams...and 2 trumpets. The snsail for Nombre de Dios,of the point of the bay, -it w. as dark. They th?set sail, and arrived at the town about three inthe morning; at which time it happened, thatta Spanish ship of 60 tons, laden with Canary'wines, lately come into the bay, and had nonyet furled her spiit-sail,-seeing the four pinnacffiiwith -an unusual number of oars, sent off heseGondaloe to give intelligence to the town, buttDrake getting between her and the place, forced.*her to go to the other side of the bay. He anc.his men landed without any opposition, tho’ theypfound a gunner upon the plat-fomi, in the veryplace where they landed, which was a sandy bay.{not above 20 yards from the houses; there theyfound six large brass cannons, mounted on tbeiii.carriages, which they immediately dismounted Jbut the gunner escaping, the town took alarm)which they perceived not only by the noise anticries of the people, but by the bell ringing, ancjthe drums beating up and down the town. Drak'j.reached Rio Francisco.tad left 12 men to take care of the pinnaces, thatn case of any miscarriage, he might he secufe ofretreat. Having secured the platform before1jte entered the town, he thought fit to view theinount, on the east side of the town, where hevas informed the year before they had designedo plant some cannon. However, Capt. Drakeound no catinon there: and thereupon orderedtis brother, with John Oxenbam, to go roundbehind the King’s treasure-house, and dnter atihe east end of the market-place; while he, withhe rest, marched with sound of drum and trum-••et up the broad-street, which led thither.1 he fire-pikes, which served both to frightenIe enemy and give light to his own men, hevided equally between the two companies.he inhabitants stood amazed at such a strangeght, and hearing the sound of drums and trum-Jts in more than one place, imagined theirsemies far mere numerous than they were.—y this time some soldiers, and some of the in-jiabitants, had put themselves in arms at onemd of the market-place, near the Governor’slouse, and not far from the gate of the town,IJpon Drake’s approaching them with his nun,bey discharged a volley of shot at them. TheEnglish having returned it, with both fire-armsnd arrows, came immediately to a close fight,nd did great execution with their pikes, swords,: nd the but-ends of their muskets. Capt. Drake’sorother coming in at the instant with the ethernompany, the Spaniards threw down their wcap-3;ns and 8ed out of the town. The English pur¬sued them to the gate, and returning, took theirtr.and towards the middle of the market-place:bad Drake having taken two or three Spaniards6in their flight, be ordered them to-shew him thoGovernor’s house, where he was informed thetreasure that came from Panama was depositedAccordingly, he and his men being led thitherthey found the great door open, a candle upo;the stairs, and a fine horse standing ready saddledBy' means of the light, they saw a prodigious hea{of silver in the lower room, being a pile of barsas near as they could guess, 70 feet in length110 "m breadth, and 12 in height. Each of the bars;which were thus piled up against the wall, wa:about 30 or 40 pounds weight. At sight of thisDrake gave strict orders that rone should toucla bar of the silver, but stand to their arms ; because the town was still full of people, and thenwas in the King’s treasure-hou*e, near the waterside, more gold and jewels than all their pinnace :could carry with them.They were no sooner returned to their armsthan a report was brought by some of their menthat their pinnaces were in danger of being takenand that if themselves did not get on board befor:day light, they would be overpowered by multktud“s of soldiers and townsmen. Drake immediiarely sent his brother, with John Oxenham, t'enquire what had occasioned this report; and thefound the men who were left to guard the pinnaces, very much disheartened, because they ha>seen great bodies of men running up and downsome w ith lighted matches, and some armed u-ibdifferent kinds of weapons. At this instant a violent shower of rain fell, attended with thunde !and lightening; so that before they could tabshelter under a pent-house, at the west end of thKing’s treasure-house, some of their bow-stringwere wet, and their match and powder damaged*:' 7Daving this interval, being about half an hour,(some of the men began to murmur and ex pres'*their di«content at the dangerous situation intowhich Drake had brought them. He being madeacquainted with this told them, that he had led'them to the mouth of the treasure of the world,which if, by their cowardice, they went awaywithout, they had none to blame but themselves.As soon as the fury of the storm was in sememeasure abated, he being unwilling to give his menmore time to think on their dangerous situation,aand the enemy an qpporttinity of assembling to-igether, he ordered his brother and John Oxen-nham, with their company, to break open the King’sureasure-house, while he with his company secur¬ed the market place till their business was done.But in the instant Drake was giving out the ordershis strength, sight, and speech failed him, and hefainted, with the !o: s of a large quantity of blood,by a wound he had received in his leg at the be¬ginning of the action, but which he had till thenconcealed, to prevent his men from being disheart¬ened. When he was a little recovered, his com-(pany used all the persuasions they could to inducei him to go on board, to have his wound dressed,I promising to return with him again, and pursueJ their design. But he having his scarf tied abouthis wound, and being sensible that if they nowlost ground, it would be in vain to return, persistedin holding and improving the advantage they hadobtained. However, the major-part of his menuniting against his resolution, they carried him al¬most by force on board his pinnace, and put offfrom the shore with the booty they had alreadygotten. It is said by the writer of his life, Thatby force, mingled with fair woids, they carriedshim away to his pinnace, judging that preservinghis life was the only chance of after success, or ofgetting safe, home. Thus they abandoned therichest spoil that ever raised the expectation of!adventurers ( there being, as they were after¬wards informed, 360 tons of silver, and far !greater value in gold, which was in iron chestsin the King’s treasure-house. At break of day,on the 29th of July, they embarked, havingSeveral men, besides Captain Drake, wounded,and one of their trumpeters killed/Before they set eff, they took, after someresistance, the ship laden with wine, formerlymentioned, and carried her to Bastunentes,about a league from Nombre de Dies, wherethey refreshed themselves two days, and thenreturned to their ships at the island of PinaS,Molding theie a consultation with Capt. Rawse,how they should proceed in their present situa¬tion : the latter was cf opinion, that they wereno longer Safe to continue on that coast, sincethey were discovered, and was for departing.Drake readdy consented that Rawse should de¬part, which he did; but, for his own part, hewas so chagrined at the disappointment he hadmet with, that he resolved to attempt some otherexploit, which he hoped would prove more suc¬cessful. Drake departed, with his 2 ships and3 pinnaces for Carthage na, where he arrivedon the IStdof August; and the same day tooktw o .Spanish Shipf, one of which was of 240 tonsburthen. The next morning he took 2 frigatesmore; and on the 15th he thought fit to burnone of his own ships, that he might have themore men to spare to man his pinnacesDrake continued a considerable time in these9;eas and made him:elf master of many SpanishyesstJs. He afterwards attempted to plunderi:he mules laden with silver,, which passed fromVcnta Cruz to Nombre de Dios; but in thisibe was disappointed. However he attatkedthe town Venta Cruz, took it, and carried ofSome booty. In his return, he unexpectedly'met with 50 mules laden with plate, of which•he and his men carried off as much r.3 theyicould, and buried the rest.In these expeditions he was much assisted bya nation of Indians, who were engaged in war'with the Spaniards. The Prince, or Captainof these people was named Pedro, to whomIDrake presented a fine cutlass which he wore,land to which he saw the Indian had a mind.•IPedro, in return, gave him four large wedges(of gold, which Drake threw into the commonIstock, with this remarkable expression, That hailthought it but juft, that such as bore the chargeI of so uncertain a voyage on his credit, should:! share the utmost advantages the voyage pro-liduced! Then embarking his men, with all thei wealth he had got, which was very considerable,iihe set out for England, and was so fortunate asHto make his voyage in 23 days, from Cape Floridan to the Isles of Scilly, and thence to Plymouth,n where he arrived on the 9th of August, 1573.i( Captain Drake’s success in this expedition,!'together wiih his honourable behaviour towardsiihis owners, gained him a high reputation andrithe use he made of his riches a still higher: or,lifitting out 3 stout frigates at his own expence,iihe tailed with them to Ireland, where, under(Walter, Earl of Essex, he served as a volulreer,and displayed great bravery. After the death10< f Hs nQble pafron, lie rettfrneJ to Eug’st'.id ;v.-hier." Sir Cbristcpher Hatton, uho was thenVico Cl arhbct'ain to Ouefn Elizabeth, a Privyt/Ounceilor, and a great favourite, became hispatron,, and introduced hirn to her Majesty —Bv this rs tans he acquired a capacity of under¬taking that grand expedition which will iminor,ralize 1 is name in the naval history of Britain.Mis first proposal was a voyage to the South-Seas, through the straits of IV-gelhn, which wasfw hat no Englishman had ever hitherto attempted.This project was well received at Court, anda short time Drake saw himself at the height ofhis wishes; for in his Termer voyage having hada distant prospect of the South-Seas,"he put upan ardent prayer to GOD, that he might sail anEnglish ship in them, which he nowfouhd an op¬portunity of attempting, the Queen’s permissionfurnishing him with the n cans, and Ins own famequickly drawing to him a sufficient force.The fleet w':th which he sailed on this extraortlinary undertaking, consisted of the followingships, the Pelican commanded by himself, of 100tons; die Elizabeth Vice-Admiral, 80 tons, un¬der Capt. John Winter; the Marygold, a barkof 30 tons, commanded by Capt. John Elio mas;the Swan, a fly-boat, of 50 tors, under C’pt, JohnChester; and the Christopher, a pinnace of 15ton's, under Capt Thomas Moon. In this fleetv/ere embarked lO-f able men ; and the ships wereplentifully furnished with all kinds of provisionsand nt cessaries for so long and dangerous a voyage.Drake took with him some very expert musicians ;& his furniture cf ail kinds, w as rich & sumptuous.All the vessels for his table, and many in the cook-room, were of pure silver, curiously wrought;liAnri he also carried many other things with Kira,whereby the magnificence of his native countryinnii^ht be displayed. However, the intent of this! voyage was not openly declared, it being pretend¬ed that a voyage to Alexandria only was intend¬ed; but it was generally suspected, and many.;knew, that he designed to go to America.On the 15th of November, 1577, about thre?I in the afternoon, Drake sailed from Plymouth ;but a violent storm arising, as soon as he was outof port, forced him, in a very bad condition, intoFalmouth to refit, which having expeditiouslyperformed, he put again to sea on the 13th ofDecember following. On the 25th of the sames month, he fell in with the coast of Barbary, andon the 29th with Cape Verd.On the 13th of March, he passed the Equinoc¬tial. The 5th of dpi 11 he made the coast of Brazil,and entered the river de la Plata, where he lostthe company of two his ships * but meetingthem again, and hav' g taken out of them theprovisions on board, he turned them a drift.On the 29th of May he entered the port ofSt. Julian’s, where he continued two months, forthe sake of laying in provisions. And here it wasthat, on a sudden, having carried the p’-jncipalt| persons engaged in the service to a desart island,I lying in the bay, he called a council of war, cri rather court-martial, where he produced his com-tt mission, by which the Queen granted him power:• of life and death ; which was delivered him whhi this remarkable expression from her own mouth :fj “ We do account that he, Drake, who strikes^ “ at thee, does strike at us !” He then laid open,r, with great eloquence, the cause of this assembly.For, tho’ his education had been but indifferent.12-■e was an excellent speaker. He proceeded nextto chif^e Mr. Jo’.n Doughty, who had beens-'ccrid in command dming the voyage, with plot-*ting the destruction of the undertaking, and thomurder of his person. He said, that he had thefirst intimation of this gentleman’s evil intentionsbefore his departure from England, but that hewas in hopes his behaviour towards him wouldhave extinguished such dispositions, if there hadbeen any truth in the information, bl? thertappeared for his behaviour to the whole assemblv,and to the gentleman accused, and next exposedMr. Doughty’s practices from the time they leftEngland, while he behaved towards him with allthe kindness and cordiality of a brother * whichcharge he supported, by producing papers fromhis ov/ft hand. After this Drake retired, leavingthe determination to the assembly, telling themhe would be *o judge in his own cause. Doughtybeing hereupon brought io his trial, for raisinga mutiny in the fleet, and conspiring his Com¬mander’s death, was, by a Jury, not 12 but ofabove 40 of the chief men of the fleet, condemnedto die. It was put to his choice, whether to beset on shore, sent to take his trial in England, orsubmi* to his sentence. He preferred the latter,it is said, and was there beheaded. He submittedpatiently to his fate, and died with great courageand serenity. The monbng before his executionhe received the Communion wiih Drake andseveral of the other officers. He afterwardsdined with them, appearing as cheerful as he hadever done before ; and took leave of them all, bydrinking to them, -as if he had been going on ajourney. Dinner being ended he rose from table,and, without any hesitation, walked out to the/ ' IS•lac« pfr-srcd for-^is execution. He is said tokavp a stout, stk, ird indditiioui soair; :t,tut h. Mjrntv A tinbU'L’tit. Some were ot rjitn'ond-at. tfrou.i; i»e had- been •"eeulous in the fiyttjibrake cut him ot? »s ,n emui. .or of his gtory ;While othi- s -pretendytl,- tt>a he was designeds errsce b^Fotto Kel tef. Engfand ^ and thatpralce had pflsida’areoaie 3 from the Earl ofLeicester to cur r-fitf ddDuiighty on .my prta*t.cewhateTef. btf int« "’1®- had charged LeieesterWith bar o r' poieoiKtd: «Vaker, Earl of Ess^x.; Drake teoaated from St. JuJiar, \ugust i7th,inn the 20*o rrC-red the btreights of M^eilaa.i^fter a difheutt R'asugfltkneof iO ctays. he camelut, on the 6rh September, into the Great SouthJlea. But here he r. ert with such tempestuous■feather, that was forced back to the west¬ward near 100 ’h-atnif s: and one of h»s ships,t.b‘- Marygoid,-Gipt. TbomaSy) lost. Near•he 57th degree 80utb-h«tiru»i.e, .hf entered a bayWhere he ft uni naksd y-erpile ranging from oneWland to ' aotherrin cart;:*, m search of provcions,tailing norrhvraTd fr-v- tee, on October Sd,•e tout id three island: in one of T*h:ch was. extra-irdmarv bocks of birds; Do the 8ri> he lost ano->her ship (the Efiz-rbeth, Capt. John Winter)Viiicit reiumed ttr• uth the Stretgrhis. and ar-rived safe tit Er^lafd, Juir 2d, the year t'ollow-|t£, b-:inr; the first iis n'ih.u ever came hack that«ay. Drake had nov oiitr bis own ship, which,t the $ourh~ieas, he tiew-uaaried the Hindi andIroceedmg aiongf thr coast of Cln t, he came ton kkad caflrd.sMouc:>», where he ban mtelli-:ence trona n Indian> that a l-rge 'panith shipwy loadn* at Val Var?iio. which he inunedtaceiyiaiied in search of. iiaving got sight of heff&nd14drawing near where she lay, the Spaniards sup¬posing them some of their countrymen coming)towards them, beat their drums and received themiwith great joy! Drake, having boarded her, or¬dered them below, and so took possession of her *in which, according to some naval historians,,was found 400 pounds-weight of Baddivian gold*Drake put the Spaniards on shore, but carried!away the master with the ship. Some writerssay, that the booty taken on board this ship, wasonly 2570Q0 penzoes, amounting to a little morethan 27000 Spanish ducats. After this, he plun«dered a neighbouring town, and soon thereafterlanded at i’arapasa, where finding a Spaniard!asleep upon the shore, with 13 bars of silver lyingvbesirte him, of the value of 4000 Spanish ducats,,they carried off the bars w ithout waking the man.Drake next entered the port of Africa, wherehe found 3 sh?ps, with not a man on board them iin which were, besides other merchandize, fifty-seven wedges of silver, weighing 20 pounds each.From thence he proceeded to Lima, the capitalof Peru ; V'here he seized 12 ships, in which weregreat quantities of silk; with a chest full of coinedmoney ; but had not a person, on board them :So great was the security of the Spaniards on thesecoasts, where, by reason of their great distancefrom Europe, they feared no danger; nor indeedhad ever any but Magellan btfore Dr.ike, navi¬gated those seas, except the Spaniards themselves,who built there the ships they had in those parts.Having set these ships a-drift, be, with all the sailhe could make., gave chace to the Cacofoga, a veiyrich ship, whicn he undersmod had lately sailedfrom thence for Panama, and by the way met witha brigantine, out of which he took eighty pounds■I 15•ifeight of gold, a crucifix of the same metal, some■meralds of a fingei’s length, and some cordage,n a few days after he came up with the Cacofoga,Ind shooting her fore-mast by the board, presentlyjade himself master of her; wherein, besidesHearis ard precious stones, he took eighty poundsheight of gold, 13 chests full of silver coined, andgreat quantity of other silver. Having removed11 this into his own ship, he let the Cacofogo go.Drrke continued his course to the northward,aili' d along the coast of Mtvico, and landing atign -ti^co, sacked that town. Here he found a'ourt of Justice sitting in the town-hall, and a judgeust going to pronounce sentence against some poorxlegroes, who were accused of a plot to set theown on fire; but Dn.ke thought fit to make amall alt *r ticn in the sentence, and to order theudge, court, and criminal?, to be conveyed pris-mers on board his ship; and the sentence wasio sooner pronounced than executed.Drake having now' made more than sufficientipri'als on the bpank-rds tor his former losses,rroposed returning to England; in doing which,ic boldly attempted to find a passage by NorthAmerica, sailing to the latitude of 4-2 degrees onhat coast: but meeting with nothing but severeCold, and ope n shores covered with snow, he cameaack into the latitude of 38 and there putting intoti convenient harbour in the north of California,net wdth a very kind reception from Indiansnhabiting the same; who, by significant tokensOffered to make him their king. To tl is countryDrakegave the name of New Alb on ; and raisinga pillar, inscribed upon it tl e name of QueenElizabeth, the date of the year, the time of hisarrival there, and put under it some of the Queen’s16coin. Leaving th:s coast, hi sailed to the west¬ward, and ar length arriving at the Moliuccas,he was kindly entertained by the king of Pernate,one of those islands. Sailing from thence, hepurfued his course through those dangerous seas;but his ship striking upon a rock, stuck fast for27 hi'urs, which put all his men into despair:but when they had lightened the ship, by thiow-ing over-board eight of her guns, and somemerchandise, a bearing gale of wind fortunatelytook her in the quarter, and heaved her off.—Then touching at Java, where he received greatcivility from one of the Kings of the Island, hecontinued his course for the Cape of Good Hope,ana from thence to Rio Grande in Negroland,where he took in water, and then set out forEngland. On the 25th of September, 1580,he arrived safe at Plymouth ; having, in lessthan three years, sailed round the globe, to thegreat admiration of all men !Captain Drake’s success in this voyage, andthe immense wealth he brought home, occasionedmuch discourse throughout the kingdom; somehighly applauding, and some as loudly decryinghim. ihe former alledged, that his exploitswere not only honourable to himself, but to thenation; that it would establish our reputation,for maritime skill, in foreign nations, and raisean useful spirit of emulation at home; and thatas to the money, our merchants having suffereddeeply from the faithlessness of the Spaniards,'nothing could be more just than that the nationshould receive the benefit of Drake’s reprisals.The other party alledgetf, that he was no betterthan a pirate: That of ail others, it least becamea trading nation to encourage such practices:17Chat it vras not only a direct breach of lateireaties with Spain, but also of our old leaguesiwith the House of Burgundy ; and that the ccn-.equences w'orld be much more frtal than thebenefits reaped from it would be advantageous.However, on the 4th of April, 1581, QueenElizabeth going to Deptford, went on boardCapt. Drake’s ship, where she dined, and after¬wards conferred on him the honour of Knight’hood, declaring her absolute approbation of allthat he had done, to the confusion of his enemies,Ttnd joy of his friends. Her I ojesty also gavedirection* for the preservation of his ship, that'she might remain a monument of his own andibis country’s glory. J'his famous ship, whichwas contemplated for many years at Deptford,lit length falling into decay, was broken np, anda chair made of some of her planks, was presented:to the University of Oxford: Upon which thecelebrated Abraham Cowley wrote the followingiverses.’To this great ship, nhich rennd the world has run,\And match'd in race the chariot of the sun'This Pythagorean ship, (for she may claim,WVithcrat presumption, so deserv'd a name,\By knowledge once and transformation now)In this new shape this sacred port allow..Drake and his Ship could not have wish'd fromfate,\An happier station, or more bless'd estate:'For, lo ! a seat of endless rest is givenI To her in Oxford, and to him in Heaven.In the year 1585, Sir Francis Drake, who• was now made Admiral, was stnt on an expedi-18tion, against the Spaniards, to the West Indies,with a fleet of 21 sail, having above 2000 sol¬diers on board, under the command of Christo,pher Carlisle. Taking Cape-Verd Islands in theirway, they landed at the Island of St. Jago; andsurprising the chuf town of the same name,sacked the place, and carried off a considerablebooty. From thence proceeding to Hispaniola,they made themselves masters of the town of St.Domingo; the inhabitants whereof having re¬deemed it from being burnt, with 2500 ducats,the fleet sailed c -or to Carthagena; which, aftera short defence, was also taken by storm, andransomed for 110000 ducats, which were sharedamong the seamen and soldiers.—But the calen-ture, that raged among the men, taking ofT manyof them, the Admiral laid aside his design of at¬tacking Nombre de Dios : and setting sail forEngland, passed between Cuba and Jucatan : —And going along the coast ot Florida, seized andburnt St. Anthony’s and St. Helen’s, two smalltowns that the Spaniards had abandoned. Fromthence continuing his course along the shore, hecame to Virginia, then an infant colony, latelysettled by Sir Walter Raleigh; but the Plantersbeing reduced to a small, number, and distressedfor want of provisions, Sir Francis, at their earnestrequest, took them on board, with their Governor,Ralph Lane, and brought them home. Thuoconcluded this expedition. The booty takenfrom the Spaniards was valued at L 00,000, be¬sides 200 brass and iron cannon; but with theloss of 700 men; most of whom died of the ca¬lenture.In 1.587, Drake was sent out with a squrdronto cruize against the Spaniards, and particularly19uvith a view to interrupt the preparations theyiwere making to invade England, and to destroy,‘if possible, the Spanish shipping, ammunition,(land provisions, in their ports. On the 19th ofiApril, he arrived in the bay of Cadiz, where henwas opposed by 12 Spanish gal’tes, of which heusunk two, and forced the others to retire underiltlie castles. lie then, under a dreadful fire fromflthe foits and batteries, burnt one ship of 1500itons, another of 1200, and Si more from 1000to 200 tons; besides carrying away 4 ships ladenwith provisions, designed for the expeditionj against England. Drake sent an account of whatiihe had done to Lord Burleigh: and at the samertime acquainted him with the prodigious prepara-Ftions making in all the ports of Spain for invad-sing England, and of his further plans to frustrateitheir designs. After this, he demolished severalr forts on the coast of Spain, without much oppo-!i silion from the Spanish Admiral, whom he in-i suited in their harbours. From thence he sailedIfor the Azure Islands, aed took the Don Pedro,ij a thip reckoned worth 200,000 crowns, bound1 for Portugal from the East Indies. This capturei was of great advantage to the English in severali respects; because, besides the money they took,' they Ic .rnt two important things; hast, that those1 large hulks were not invincifeias aidcondly, that1 the East India trade was very valuable: Arid this| put them on the first thoughts of establishing anI East India Company.In 1588, Admiral Drake signalized himself,: in the defence of his country against the SpanishArmada, being appointed Vice Admiral underLord High-Admiral Howard. A little beforethis formidable Spanish armament put to sea,<20the Ambassador of his Catholic Majesty had theconfidence to propose to Queen Elizabeth, in iLatin verse, the terms upon which she might Ihope for peace ; which, in an English translationby Dr. Fuller, we shall here insert, because thatDrake’s expedition to the West Indies makes af»art of this message, and are as follows., , .. ut: t'' '. ' ‘ *L 'These to you arb our commands,Send no help to the Netherlands.Of the treasure took by Drake,Restitunon you must make;And those Abbies build anew,Which your father cvsrthrew:If for any peace you hope,In all points restore the Pope.T/ie Queen’s Extempore Answer.Worthy King, know, this your will,At Latter-Lammas we’ll fulfil.In this remarkable period of the Naval Historycf England, Drake’s good fortune attended himac remarkably as ever; for he made prize ofa large Gadeon, commanded by Don Pedro deValdez, who yielded on the bare mention of hisname. In this vessel he found .‘>0,000 ducats ;which he generously distributed among the sea¬men and soldiers. It must not, however beconcealed, that, through an oversight of histhe Lord-Admiral ran the utmost hazard of bemgtaken by the enemy; for Drake being appointedthe first night of the engagement, to carry ii> htsfor the direction of the Enghfh fleet, he beingin full pursuit of some hulks belonging to the21iHanse Towns neglected Ids appointment; whichS:>ccsskmed the Loid-Admiral his following theipanish lightr. and remaining almost in the centresf their fleet till morning. However, Drake’si succeeding services sufficiently effaced the me¬mory of this mistake, the greatest executioaTone on the flying Spaniards being performedi»by the squadron under his command.Notwithstanding the defeat of the Spaniardshad been so notorious they took great pains to(propagate false stories concerning it to concealtitheir own dishonour, and to tire prejudice ofItue English. This provoked none more than[Drake, who could, upon occasion, use his pensas well as his sword, and, therefore, wrote as^follows, upon this subject.“ They were not ashamed, says he, to publish:in sundry languages in print, great victories inwords, which they pretended to have obtained(against this realm, and spread the same in a mostifake sort over all parts of France, Italy, andidsewhere; when, shortly after, it was happilyimanifested in very deed to all nations, how theirmavy. which they termed INVINCIBLE, con-isisting of 140 sail of ships, not only of their own; kingdom, but strengthened with the greatestiargosies, Portugal carracks, Florentines, andilarge hulks qf other countries ; were, by 30 ofiher Majesty’s own ships of war, and a few of ourtown merchants, bythewrise, valiant, and advan¬tageous conduct of the Lord Charles Howard,:High-Admiral of England, beaten and shuffledtogether, even from the Lizard in Cornwall,: first to Portland, where they shamefully leftIDon Pedro de Valdez, with his mighty ship;from Portland to Calais, where they lost Hugh22de Moneado, with the ^allies of which he wasCaptain; and from. Calais driven with squibs ifrom their anchorc, wenrcbased cr;! of the sight'of England, round about Scotland and Ireland ;where, for the sympathy of their religion, hon¬ing ro find succour and assistance, a great part ofthem were crushed ai/ainst me rocks, and thoseother that landed, being very many in number,were, notwithstanding, broken, slain, and taken:and so sent from village to village, coupled inhalters, to be shipped into England; where herMajesty, of her princely and invincible dispositiondisdaining to put them to death, and scorning toretain or entertain them, they were all sent backagain to their countries, to witness and recountthe worthy atchievements of their invincibleand dreadful Navy ! O: which th? number ofsoldiers, the fearful burden of their ships, theCommanders’ names of every squadron, with allother their magazines and provisions, were putin print, as an Army and Navy irresistible,and disdaining prevention: With all which theirgreat ostentation, they did not; in all their sailinground about England, so much as sink or takeone ship, batk, pinnace or cock boat, of curs; orever burnt so much as one sheep cote on thisland.” This spirited relation of so signal a defeatof the Spaniards, gives us an advantageous ideaof the eloquence of our gallant Admiral.In 1589, Drake commanded as Admiral at sea,the fleet sent to restore Don Antonio, King ofPortugal; the command of the land forces beinggiven to Sir Johii Norris. They were but justat sea before the Commanders differed. Theground of iheir difference was this: The Generalwas bent on landing at the Groyne, whereas the23\drr;iral, and the Sea Officers, wexe for sailing toisbon directly: in which if their advice had been.aken, there is little reason to doubt but {heir en-rprize would have succteded, and Don Antonioen restored. S>r John Ncnris, indeed, marchedy land to Lisbon, and Drake, very imptudently,rorrised to sail up the river with his whole fleet;ut, when he saw the consequences which wouidtfend the keeping his word, he chose rather toreak his promise, than to hazard the Queen’savy ; for which he w as grievously reproachedy Ncrris, and the miscarriage of the whole affairae imputed to his failure of performing whataihe had undertaken. Yet Drake fu'ly justifiedihimself on his returnAdmiral Drake’s last public service wras, theatal expedition against the Spanish West-Indies,n 1595, in conjunction with Sir John Hawkins;n which service that valiant offic.* died. Theame evening that Hawkins died, while the greatJfficers were at supper together, a cannon-shot,rom Porto Rico, pierced the cabin, killed Sir^Nicholas Clifford, wounded Captain Stratford,rrnd Mr. Bute Browne, the latter morta’ly, andIt truck the stool from under Drake, who wasIclnnking, without doing him the least hurt.The day after the death of Hawkins, Drakeimade a desperate attack on the shipping in theiharbour of Porto Rico. This was performediwith all the courage imaginable, and with greatdoss to the Spaniards, but with little advantage to;the English, who were obliged to sheer off.Admiral Drake then steered for the main, and:took the town of Rio de la Hacha, which he burntto the ground, a church, and a house belongingto a I^ady, only excepted.24He also made himself master of the famou?town of Nombre de Dios, which he destroyedlikewise, with all the shipping there, after shortresistance from the Spaniards; but he found nomoney in the town, though, in a watch-house,on the top of a hill, near the town, he found 20sows of silver, 2 bars of gold, some pearl, coinedmoney, and other pillage. Sir Thomas Basker-viile, who commanded the land-forces, thenmarched, with 750 men, towards Panama i butreturned soon after, finding tire design of takingthat place absolutely impracticable. This disap¬pointment greatly chagrined Drake; however, hethen resolved to proceed towards the island ofEscudo, and from thence to Porto Bello: Butbefore he could put his designs in practice, he wasseized with a bloody flux, which carried him offthe 28ih of January, 1595, in the 51st year ofhis age. His corpse was, with a few maritimehonours, thrown overboard; and thus the sea be¬came at once his tomb and monument; the graveof his body, as it had been the theatre of his val¬our and intrepidity.He was of a low stature, but well set; had abroad open chest, a very round head, his hair ofa fine brown colour, his beard full and comely,his eyes large and clear, of a fair complexion,with a fresh, cheerful, and very engaging coun¬tenance- He died without issue, and left behindhim a widow.FINIS.