THECOMICAL SAYINGSOFPady from Cork.WITH SIS COdT BU77OWB BEHIND.B«ingsn Elegamt Conference betwixt ENGLISHTOM and Isish TEAGUE, With PADY'* CATE-CHISM, his Opinion of Pdhgatohy, the State of the»nd his SuprtiCATioii when a MoontaiSbAlLiOH*i-TO WHICH IS ADDEDms CREpD FOR ALL ROMISH BELIEVERS.EDINBURGH-.Friniedf iy J, Aforrcn,The COMICAL Saviikw or PADY from CORKPART I.Tom. OOD morrow, Sir thi s is * very cold day.\JT Teag. Arra, dear honey, yefternight wasa very cold morjiing. .Tctc. Well brother, traveller, of what nation art thou?.Tom- Arra, dear fnoy, I came from my own kingdom.Tea?. Why fir, I know that but where is thy kingdom.Tom. Allriu, dear honey, don’t you know Cork inIrTom. O you fool, Cork is not a kingdom but a,city.Teag, Then dear honey I am fure it 11 m a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reafoh you have come apd leftyour own dear country. .... .Teag. Arra, dear honey, by-flia.nt Patrick, they have.ot fueh comical laws \n our country, that they’ll putaman to dea^h in perfeft health ; for to be free and pla.nwith you neighbour, I was obliged to come away, for Jdid not chufe to flay among fuch a people that can hiRg* poor man when they pi cafe, if he either Real., robe, or^Tom. Ay. hot I take you to be more of an boneft manthan to feai, rob, or kill a man. T ,Teag. Honcft I am perfcQly honed when I was buta child my mother would have truftid me with a houfefull°f Tomf What wasthe matter was you guilty of nothing?Teag. Arra dear honey ,*1 did harm to nobody; butfancied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwards made itmyT^m‘ Very well boy, and did you keep it fo.Veag. Keep it I would hsve kept it with all my heart,while I liv’d death itfelf would not have P«t«d “s, butthe old rogue the gentleman being a ,uft«cc of the peacebimfelf had me tried for the rights of it, and how I cameby it «md fo took it again. _Tom. And how did you clear yourfelf w.thout pumlh-115601 * ■ I tnld them a narcell of liesPADY FROM CORK. ,keepcd it till it had grown a gun, and deSgncd to ufe itwell until it had grown a big cannon and then fell it tothe military. 1 hey all fell a laughing at me as I hadkeen a fool and bid me go home to my mother and cleanthe potatoei.Tom. And how long is it fmcc you left your own countryTeag. Am dear honey I do not mind whether it hea fortnight or four mo.oths, bus I 'think myfelf it is along time, they tell me my mother is dead finoewbut Iwon't believe it, until I get a letur from her ownWand,for lie ii a very good fcbolar fuppofe (he can aeitkerread nor write. "Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Teag) Ay that I was and ta Scotland too.Tom. yfnd were they kind to you wheu you was inScotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kicked my lifeforme, and the rcafon was becauffc 1 would not pay thewheie ef the liquor that was drunk in the Compaay» tbo‘the landlord and his two fona got mouthfull about of it ;they would have me pay it alt, tko’i did not drink it aUand 1 told them it wa* a trick npon travellers, fii ft to drinktheir liquor and then ta kick tkera out of doors.Tom. I really think they ufed yon badly, bat couldyou not beat them.Teag. That’s what I did, beat them all to their owncontentment; but there was one of them ftronger thatme, who would have killed me, if the other two kad notpulled me away, and 1 had to ran for it till his paiSonwas over; then they made us drink and gree again ; wefcaok hands, and made a btrgain never to harm othermore; but this bargain did not laft, for as I was kifinghis month, by lhaint Patrick I bit his nofe, which caufedkins to beat me fore for my pains,Tom. Well Pady, what calling was you when in Scot*land.Teag. Why fir, I was no kufinefs at all ; but wha:do you call the green trie, that’s liks a whin-bufh, manypeople makes a thing to fweep the houfe with it ?Tom. O yea they call it a broom.Teag. Ay. ay, you have U, then I was a gentleman’®4 PADY FROM CORK,groom, only waited on his hoi/e8, and wafhed the difliei,for the cook ; and when my matter rode a hunting, I ranbehind, along with the dogs.Tom. O yes, rf» 5y, it was the groom you mean, bitI fancy you was cook’s mate or kitchen boy.Teag. No, no, it was the broom that I was, and if Ihad (laid there till now, I might have been advanced ashigh as my matter, for the ladies loved me i vell thatthey laq^ied at me.Tom, They might admire yon for a foci.Teag. What fir, do you imagine that I am not a tool,no, no, my matter aiked counfel of me in all his mattersand I always gave him reafons for evary thing. 1 toldhim one morning that he went too foon to the huntingthat the har-s were not got out of thtir bci^ and nei*ther the barking of horns nor blowing of the uogs couldmake them rife, it .was fuch a cold morning that night;fo they all ran away that we catehed, when we did riotfee them. Then my matter told my wonds to feveral gen¬tleman that was in at dinner with him, and they admiredme for want of wifdom, faying, I was certainly a man ofgreat judgment, for my head was all of a lump, aud addedthey were going a fittiing along with my matter and mein the afternoon ; but I told them it was a very unhappything for any man to go a hunting in the morning and afilhing in the afternoon ; yet they would try it; but theyhad better ftard at home, for it came on a mod terrible fineEight of fouth-weft rain and even down wind ; fo the fifheagot all in below the water to keep them dry from thefliower, and we catchcd them all, but got none of theca.Tom and how long did you ferve that gentlem|p ?Teag, Arra dear honey, I was with him fix weeks andhe beat me liven times.Teag. Fpr what did he beat you, was it for your mad-aeft and fool i fit tricks.Teeg. Dear (hoy, it was not, but fpr being too in-^pifitive and goirg {bare ly about bufineft. Firtt, he fent»• to the poll office, to enquire if there was any lettersfrr him ; fo when 1 came there, faid I, is there any Iet=>Ww» here for my matter to day ? Then they a/ked me wh*my mfier; fir, faidl, it is nry bad manne* in yo«PADY FROM CORK. sto afic any ^entlman’s name At thiatheylau^fied, mock¬ing me, and faid they would give mb riooe, if I would nottea my mailers name: fo I returned to my mailer, andtold the impudence of the fellow ho v he would ^ire meno letters unlefs I would tell thenryour name mailer. Mymailer at this dew in great paflroo, and kicket mi, downflairs, faying, go you Rogue and tell my name direftly ;how can the gentleman give letters, when he knows notwho is alking for th#m ? Then I returned and told tnymailer’s name, fo they told me there was one for him, Ilooked at it, being very fmall, and alking the price of it,they told me it was fixpeuce, fixpence, faid I, willy outake Sxpence for that fmall thing and felling bigger one*for twopence ; faith I-am not fuob a big fool, you think tocheat me nov* this is not a confcionible way of dealing.I’ll acquaint my mailer of it full; fo I came and told hinthow they would have fixpence for his letter, and was fellingbigger ones for twopence, he took up my head and brokehis cane with it, calling me a thoufand fools faying, theman was more juft than to take a iy thing but toe rightfor it : but I was furc there was none of the right buyingand feilingfucha dear pennyworth ; fo I came again formy dear fixpence letter; and the fellow was IhufBmgthrough a parcel of them feeking for it again, to makethe bell of a dear market I picked up two, and home1 cornea to my mailer, I thinking he would be wellpleafed with what I had done ; now, laid I, mailer, Ithink I have put a trick on them fellows for felling theletters fo dear to you- What have you done i laid he,laid I, I’ve only taken, other two letters; here’s one foryou maftcr to help your dtar penny worth ; and I’lfend the other to my mother, to fee whither die is deador alive, for flu’s allway’s a r.gry I don’t write to her.I had not 'he word Well fpoken till he got up his ftickand beat me heartly for tt, and fent me back to thefellow again with ths two; I had very i l will to go,but nobody would buy them of me by the way.Tom. A well, Pady, 1 think you was to blame andyour mailer too, for be ought to have taught you howhave gme about thole affans and not beat you to.Tesg. £rra, dear honey, I had two much wit of my6 PADY FROM CORK,own to be tescbed by him or any body elfe, he beginto inftrutt me after that, how I fhould ferve the table,and fitch naRy things as thofe ; one night 1 took ben aroafitd filh in one hand, a piece of bread in the e-ther the old gentleman was fo faucy he would not takeit, at^ji told n-.c I fhould bring nothing to him withauta trencher below it? the fame night he was going tobed, he called for his flippers and a pilh pot, fo I claptin trenaher below the pifh pot. and another below tl edippers sod beu I goes, one iu evcrj’ hand; no foones,did f enter the room, then he threw the p'fh pot at me,which br»ke loth my head and the pifh pot at one blow,now faid I,-t).e devil is in my mafier altogether, forwhat he commacds at &ne time he countermands at ano¬ther. Kext day I west with him to the market ta buy,a fack of potatoes, I went unto the potatoe monger, andaflcef what he took for the^ull of a Scotchcog he weightedthem in, he ailed no lels that fourpence, fourpenccfaid I, if I were but ia Dublin, I could get the full ofthat for nothing, and in Cork aad Kinfale for cheaper,them is but fmall things like peafe, faid I, but tb«potatoes in my country is as big as your head, fine meatall made up in lltffed mouthful* ; the potatce-merchantcalled me a liar, and my matter called me a f~ol, f« th*one fell a kicking m« and the other a cuffing roe, I wasin fuchbed bread between themthat 1 called myfelf botha liar and a fool t* get out alive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoes homefrem the market.Yeag. Area dear {hoy, I carried the hot Hr and themboth, befidts a big loaf and two bottles of wine : for Iput the old horfe on my back and drove the potatoesbefore me ; and when 1 tied the load to the loaf I hadnothing ado but to carry the bottles in my hand, but baglusk to the way, as I came home, for a nail out of theheel of my foot fprung aleak ia mybog, which prickedthe very bone, bruifed tht fkin, and mademy very bro^ it-fell to blood ; and I having no hammer by me but a .I atehet I left at home, I had to beat down ths nail withthe bottom of th*'bottle ; and by the book, dear ihoy,it broke to pieces, and featured ;hc wire in my ir.ou.h.PADY FROM COR K. ?. , ™’ ^ nd h,ow you recompence your matter forthe lois of your bottle of wine.Tea?; .^rra’ ^Car fooy, l h id a mind to choat hin»n>and myfeif too; for I took the bottle away to the black!tmith and defired him to mend it, that I might ?• tothe butcher and get it foil pf bliody water, but he toldme hc could not work in any thing but fteel and iron,Arra, laid I, it I were in my own kingdom* I could geta bUckfmith who could make a bottle out of a ftone and» none out of nothing.wineT" An<1 hovrd^ you tock your matter out of the-Teag Why the old man he^an to chide me, afkingme- how 1 broke it, then I held up the other as high’V'Yw 't and,let itfal1 *u tlie ground on a donewhich broke it allto pieces likewife ; now faid I, maf-ter, that * the way, and then he beat me very heartily,until I ha to (hbut out murder and mercy all at once,fobadly dldyou not Ie,ve him Wberthe ufed you'„ dea: 1 CJU,d ntrer think to leave himwhnc l cculd eat, he gave me fomany good viAuale, andpromiled to prefer me to be hia own bone picker ; butby fha.nt Patrick, I bad to run a~ty with my life or allwas done, elfe 1 had lofTiny dear fhoul and body too, byhim, and then, I came home touch poorer then I went*wav; Thc great-big bitch dog, that wa» my matter’sbelt beloved, pat m her head into a pitcher to lick outtome milk, when it was in flae could not get it out,and I to favc thc pitcher got the hatchet and cut off thed«g s head, and then I bad to break the pitcher before.I got out the head, by this I loft both the dag and thefntcher. My mafter, hearing this, fwore he would cutthe head off mer f,r the poor dog was mads ufelefs and««W d not fee to follow any body for want of his eyes;and wh.n I heard ot t’tis- I ran away with my own head,for if I liad wanted it, l had loft my eyes too, then Iwould not have feen the road to Port Patrick, throueheGlen nap, but by fhaint Patrick, Icamc home alive in fpitof them all. tTom. O rarely done, Pady, you behaved like a ms*g PADY FROM CORK-but whit is the rcafon that you Irifli people fwetr llwiysby (haict Patrick, vhat i* he this fluint Patrick.Teag. Jirry. dear honey, he wss the heft fhamtin theworld, the father of all geod people in the kingdom, hehas a greit kindnefs for »n Irifhman, whan he haara hia*calling on his n .me ; he was the firft that fow'd the po¬tatoes in Ireland, for he knew it was a bit of good fatground, it being a gentleman’s garden before Noah s flood.Tom. But dear, Pady, is fcamt Patrick yet alive, thathe hears the Inlh people when they fpeak of his name,Tesg. ud'rra, dear honey, I don’t V.t ow whether he isdead or alive, but it is a long time fince they kill’d him,the people turn'd all heathtus, but he could not changehis profeffion and was going to run the country with itand for taking his gofpel away to England, lo the bar¬barous torics of Dublin cutted cffhis head, and what doyon think he dVj when his head was off.Tom. What could a dead man do you fool ? •Tear. Dead faith he was not inch a b g foo as to dieyet, he fwim’d over to England after this and broughthis head along with him. -j , . . .Tom. Wad how did he carry his hUad and fwun too%Teag. Arra dear honey he carried his head m his teetn.Tom. No Pady, it wont holdji I miUt have caution ivir^ Tcag. If you won’t b.lieve me, I’ll fwcar it over again.P A R T. IT._ A sd how did you get fafe out of Scotland at laft.Tom. Teag. By the law dear honey, when I came,to Port Patrick, and faw my own kingdom, I thoughtI was fafe at home, but I was clean dead and almoftdrowned before I could get riding over the water ; for Iwith nine or ten palTeagers more, leapt into a itt e youngboat, having but four men dwelling in a little houfe, mthe one end of it which was all thneked with dea s ; andafter they had pulled up her tether-flick, and laid herlong halter over her mane, they pulled up a long big Ihee ,like three pair of blankets to the riggen of the houfe, andthe wind blew in that, wh'ch made her gallop up one hillaad down ancther, till I thought Ihe would have rtnFADY FROM CORr. «to Ike frorld’a end if fome pert of the warld bad ■o;ontch’d herby the foot.Tom. I fancy Pedy you was hy tint time very fickfreag. Sick, *y fick beyond ill fitkenfs, dean dead ata doornail : for as I had loft the key af my back (Idai hock’d up the very bottam of my belly, and I thoughtthet liver andlung*. and all that 1 had fhoald have gonetogether; then 2 called to the felt** that held by her tailbehind to pull down fiia Iheet and hold her head, till lgot leifure to die, aad then fij my pnyera.Tom, Well then Pady, get you fafe afharc at lall.reag. Ay, ■wc came afhore very fall; but by (habitPatrick, 1 (hall never venture tny dear Ihoul and body infuch a young boat again while the wind blow* out of ScotsGalloway.Tom. Well Pady, and where did you go when youcame to Ireland again ?Teag. Aits, dear honey, and where did I go, but tomv own dear coufin, who was now become very rich bythe death of the old buck his Father who died but a fewweek* before I went over, and thepari&ibad to bury himout of pity, it had not to eoft him a farthing.Tom. And what entertainment or good ufage did youget there Pady.Teag. O mydrarlhoy, 1 was as ki idly ufedas anothergemlenisn, for I told him l had made jbmething of it, bymy travels, as well as himfclt, but 1 had got po moneytherefore Iliad to work for my victuals while 1 ftaid with himTom. Ho, poor Pady, I fuppofe you would not ftavlong there?reag. Am, dear honey, J could have ftaid there longenough, but <*h.n a man is poor, his friends think littleof him : 1 told him I was gaing to 'fee my brother Har¬ry : Harry, faid he, Harry it dead ; dead faid I, andwho kill’d him ? Why, faid he, death , yfllelieu dorhoney, and where did he k'dl him, f»id I f in h s t .d,♦aid he., O what fo.' a cowardly aftion was that, {aid |,to kill * man in hit bed ; and what is this fellow death,laid l ? What is he, He i* one that kills more than thehead butcher in all Cork does. A:n dear honey, faid,U if he bad been on Newry m*untarns with bis bragssa ?ADY FR«M CORK-o;i, ami liis broad (Word by ' his fide, all the death’s inIreland had-not killed him. 0 that impudent fellow,death, if be had let him aloue till he had died for wantcf'buttw milk and potatoes, I’m fnre he would have’'live’tfall the days of his life.Tom. In all your travels when abroad, did you nev(etfee none of your countrymen to inform you of what hap*peued at home concerning your relations.Tcag. Arra. dear (hoy- 1 faw none but Tom Jack, oneday on the ftreet; bur when I came to» him, it was nothim butone juft,ikc hini-*Tom. On wliat account did you.go a travelling.Tcag. Why a recruiting lergeantliiledmeto bc a cap*tain, and after all advanced me no higher than a Wdier it-felf but only called me hia own deer countryman recruit;for I did not know what the regiment was when I lawthem. I thought they were all gentlemans fon*.and eollegeoners, when 1 faw a boxlltc abible upon theirbellie’s; but when 1 faw G. for King Geoege upon it, andR. for G—d blit’s him i ho, ho, laid l, l ihant be longhere.■'-Tom. O then Pady you deferted from them.Teap-. Ay that’s what I did.and run to the mountainslike a wild buck, and ever lince when 1 fee any fold.eraI clofe my eye# lepfl they (hould look and know me.Tom. And what exploits did you do when you was aToMier.Teag. Arra, dear honey I killed a man.Tom. And how did you that ? _' , .Teag. Am, dear honey, win a In'droptnis (word, I' drew mine and advanced boldly to him, and then cuttedoff his foot. , eTom. O then what a big fool was you ; for you oughtfirfl to cut off,his head. . , , j rurTr g. Arra, dear Ihoy ; his head was cutted of beforeI engaged him, tlfe I had not done it.Ton . O then Pady you afted like a fool; buFyoU arerot I'ucii a big fool as many take you to be, you mightPaiT«r?! ffulufifib’, my father was a fululifair befideshe,was a man under great authority by law, condemningf»ADY YRGM CORK. itthe juft end during the guilty, do you know how theycall the horfes mother.Tom. Why they call her t mare.Teag. ^mare, aye very well minded, by feaint Patrickmy father was a marc in Cork,Tom. ^fiid what ri*hes was left you by the death ofyour mother ?Teag A bad luck to her old barren belly, for fk*lived in great plenty and died in great poverty ; devouredup all or (be died, but two hens and a pockfal of potato*■ poor eftate for au Irilh gentleman inijfaith.Tom. and what did you make of our hens and po¬tatoes, did you fow them.Teag. Arra, dear {hoy I fowed them in my belly andfold the hens to a cadger.Toni. And what Wufinefs did your mothejfollow afterTeag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. Ax\A what forts of goods did (he deal in ?I eag. Dear honey fhe went through the country andfold fmall fifties, onion*, and apples; bought hena and egg*and then hatched them heifelf. I remember of one longnecked cock (he had of an over fea brood that (tood on themidden and picked all the ftars out of the aorth weft !'•they were never fo thick their finee.Tom. Now Pady that’s a bull furpafTes aU ; but i*there none of the cock’s offspring alive in Ireland now.Teag. A\xx dear fhoy I don’t think there are, but itis a pity there had not, for they would fty with peopleabove the fca, which would put the ufe of fhips out of fafti-ion, and there would be nobody drown’d at fea at all.T m. ’Very well Pady •, but in all your travels did youever get a wife ?Teag. O that’* what 1 did and a wicked wife too.Tom. And what is become f l er now ?Teag. Dear fliey 1 cant't tell whither (he is gone toPurgatory, or the Parilh of Pigtrantnnn, for (lie told mefhe ..ottUT certainly di« the firit opertanity {he could get,as ‘his prefent evil world wat not worth the waiting on,f'o fhe would go and fee what g^od things is in the worldto come; and when that old rover called the Fevecase i aging like a madman over the whole kingdom■fs Ipaiyfromkork.: icnoeVtng iVt people on the hcnd.whb 4:t(3iy blow^ ikewent and died out of fpi.e, I caving me With nothing buttwo ■< otherl'fr childrenTorn. O ButPady you oasrht to hive goae to» doc¬tor, and got fome pills and phyfic for her.Teag. By ftaint Patrick t had as good a piU of my#WD as any do&or in the kingdom could give her, and asfor fneefliing, Ihe never could ufe fnuff nor tobacco in herlife.Tom. O you fbol^rhat is not what I mean ; you mighthave brought the doiior to feel her pulfc, and let blood of: her if he thought it needful.Teag. Yes, yes that’s what 1 did ; for I ran to thedoftor when ever (he died, and fought fomething for a■ dead or dying woman; the old foolifh d—1 was at hi>■ dinner and began to alk me fome dirty queflions, whichI anfwered difUn&ly.Tom. /ind what did he alk, Pady ?Teag- Why he aflted me how did my wife go to ftool ?to which I anfwered, the fame way that other woman goto chair: no, faid he that’s not what 1 mean, how does fhcpurge. Area. Mr Do&or faid 1, all the fire in Purga¬tory,-won’t purge her clean for fhe has both a coldand fiinking breath, Sir, Said he, that is not what Jafle you whither does flic fh—t thick or thin ? Arramailer doffer, faid I, it is fometimes fo thick and hardth^t you may take it in your hand eat it like a piece ofcheefe or puddingi »nd at other times you may drink it,or fup it with a fpoon. j4x this he flew in a moll terriblerage and kicked me down flairs, and would give me no-thing to her but called me a dirty fcoundril, foi fpeakingof Ih—t before ladies.Tom. And was you forry wbrn your wife died,Teag. ^frra, dear (hoy, if any body ha beat me,I was fit lo cry myfelf.Tom. And in what giod order did you bury your wifewhen fhe died.Teag. O my dear fhoy flic was buried in all mannerof pump, pride, :jnd fplcnder: a fine coffin and cords init and within the coffin, alohg with herfeif, fhe got a pairof new brogr, a penny candle, a good hard headed oldPADY FROM CORK. 1$hammer, with an Irifh fixpenny piece, to pay her paffageat the gate, and what more coaid (he look for-Tom. 1 really think you gave her enough along ^ithher, but you ought to have criedTor her, as it it was ••more but to be in die fafhion.Teag. And why thould I cry without forrow, when wehired two criera to cry all the way before her, to keep i»the fafhion.Tom. ^ud what do they cry before a dead woman.Teag. Why they erv the common cry, or funeral la^ment that is ufed in our Irilh country.Tom. And what manner of cry is that, Pady.Teag Dear Tom if you don’t know I’ll tell you, whenany dies, there ifl a number of criers before, fayingIruff, luff, fou, allelieu dear hony, what aileth the to die,it was not for want of good butter milk and potaocs.P A R T. III.nr. \T7ELL Pady, and what did you do wheaTom. VVL your wife died.Teag. Dear honey, what would I do ; do you thiak 1w«s fuch a big fool as to die too ; I am fure if 1 had, 1■would not have got fair play, whenlam notfo old yetas :nyfather was when he died.Tom. No, Pady, that is not what 1 mean, but was youforry or did you weep for her ?Tcag. Weep for her, by fhaint Patrick 1 would notwecpjioi' yet be forry fuppofe my own mother and all thewomen in Ireland had died (evea years before l waabom.Tom. What did yon do with your children when (hedied.Teag. Do you imagine I was fuch a big fool as burymy children alive along with a dead woman , Am dearhoney, we always commonly give nothing along with adead perfon, but an old (hirt, and a windiug-lhect, a bighammer, with a long candle and an Irifh halfpenny piece.Tom. Dear Pady, and what ufe do they make of all this ?Teag Then Tom, fiate you arc foinqulitive, yougoafk thc.pmfl.14 P\DY FROM CORK.Tom. What did you make of your childr rn tJirn PadyTeag. *nd whatftiouUl I makeofthem. d >you iwaginethat I (hould give them ipto the hands of the butchersas they had been a parcel of young hogs, by fhaint Pat¬rick, I had more urraturality in me, than put them intoany Hofpital as others do.Tom. No, I fuppofe you would leare them with yourfriends ere you came away.Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man’s friends is fometimes worfethan a pro fell enemy ; the befl friend I ever had in theworld was my own pocket while my money lafted; butI left, my two btbes between the priefl*s door, and theparifh church, becaufe I thought it was a place of mercy,and then fet out to England in quell of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night With yourfriends ere you came away.Teag. Arra dear honey 1 had no friends in the worldbut an Irifh half crown, and I would have been very for-ry to have parted with fuch a dear pocket companion atfucb a time.Tom. I fancy Pady you came off with what they calla moon fhine flittng.Teag. You lie like a th'ef row, for I did not fee funmoon nor ftars, all the night then ; for I fet out fromCork at the dawn of night, and I travelled twenty milesand but twelve before glootnin in the meaning.Tom. And where did you go to take fhipp’ng }Teag. Arra deer honey, I came to a countiy village,called Dublin, asbig a city asany market town in all Eng.land, where I got myielf on board a little young boat,w ith a parcel of fellows and a long leather bag, I fupof-ed them to be tinkers until I afked what they carried inthat leather bag ; they told me it was the Englilh mailthey were go ng over with, then laid 1, is the milns fofcant in England, that they muft fend ever their corn toIreland togiind it; the comical cunning feliows perfuadednse it was thtn I went dawn to a little houfe below thewater hard by the rigg back of the boat, and laid medawn on the leather fack, where I flept myfelt nlmoft todeath with hunger. And d ar Tom to tell you plainly,when I awak’d 1 did not know where I w jf, but thoughtP ID Y FROM CORK. 15i was dead and buried, for, I found nothing all around'me but Wooden walls and timber above.Tom. And how did you come to yourfelf to knowwhere you was at lad.f eag. By the law dear honey, I fcratched my head ina hundred parts, and then fet me down to think uponit, fo I minded it was my wife that was dead, and notme. and that I wasalive in the young poll-boat, with thefellows that carries over the Englilh meal to the Irilhmilns.Tom. 0 then, Pady, I am fare you was glad whenyou found yourfelf alive.Tcag. kxrx dear flioy, I was very fare I was alive,but I did not think to livelong, fo I thought it wasbetter for me to deal and be hany’d then to live all mydays and die direftly with hungar at laft-Tom. What had you no meat far money along withyou?Teag. Arra dear Jhoy, I gave all my money to thecaptain of the houfc, or goodman of the fttip to carry meinto fea or over to England, and when I was like toeat my old broguss for want of vi&uals, I drew myhanger and cut the locks of their leather faek. thinkingto get a hek of their meal; but alleliru, dear (hoy, Lf'onnd neither meal nor feeds, but a parfd of papers andletterr, a poor moifel indeed for a hungry mar.Tom. O then Pady you laid down your honefty fornothir.g.Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great thief but got nothing todeal.Tom. And how did you come to get vi&uals at lad.Teag. Allelitu, dear honey, the thought of meat anddrink, death or life, and every thing ell'e, was out of mymind, 1 had not a thought but one-Tom. Aud what was that, Pady.Teag. To go down among the fifhes and become awljalc, then I would have lived an eafy life al! my days,having nothing to co but drink fait water, and cat calleroyfters.Tom. What, Pady was yea like to be drown’d *gj!n»i6 PADY FROM CORKTeig. Ay ay drown Vi, as clean drown'd as a fill,for the fea blew very loud, and the wind ran fo high,that we were all caft away fafe on (hore, and not one ofus drown’d at all.Tom. dnd where did yoti go when you came on Ihore.Teag. ^Irra, dear honey, 1 was not able to go any¬where you might caft a knot on my belly, I was to hob-low in the middle : So 1 went unte a gentleman’s houfeand told them the bad fortune 1 had of being drown’dbetween Ireland and the foot of Ins garden, where wecame all fafe on (hore. But all the comfort 1 got froshim was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that, Pady,Tcag. Why he told me, if 1 had been a good boy athome, 1 need dot to have gone fo far to pu(h my for¬tune with an empty pocket j to which 1 anfwercd, aadwhat, fignifies that, as long as I am a good work man ano trade at all.Tom. 1 fuppofe Pady the gentleman would make youdine with him.Teag. 1 really thought 1 was when 1 faw them totft-ing and (kining fo many black chickens, which was no¬thing but a few dead crows they were going to eat : ho,ho, faid 1 them is but dry meat at the beft, of all thefowls that flies, commend me to the wing of r.n ox, butall that came to my (hare, was a peace of a boiled herringand a roafted potatoe, that was the firtt bit; of meat I everate in England.Tom. Well Pady what, buiiuefs did you follow afterin England when you was fo poor ?Tcag. What fir do you imagine I was fo poor when Icame over on fuch an honourable occ'ifion as to lift, andbring myfelf to ho perferment at all. As I was an abl*bodied man in the f»ce, I thought to be made a briga-deer, agienadeer, ora fuzzktr, or even one of themblue gowns that hold* the firy ftiek to the bung hole ofthe big cannons, when they let them off to fright awaythe French ; 1 was as fare as no man alive, ere 1 camefrom Cork, the leaft preferment I could get, was to beriding mailer to a regiment of marines, or one of theblack herfc iifelf.PADY FROM CORK. 17Tom, Well Pady, you ferm to be a very clever litrle■man, to be ill in one body, what height tre you.Teig. Arn, dear flioy, I’m five foot nothing at all butone inch. _ . . .... .Tom. And where in England was it you luted.Teaz. Am, dear Ihoy, I was going through that littlecountry village, the famous city of Chtftcr, the ftreeUwas very fore by renfonofthe hardnefs of my feet, andlamenesf of my brogs, but 1 went but very flowly acro.sthe ftreets, from port to port is a pretty long way, butI being weaiy thought nothing of it; then the peoplecame all crowding to me as if I had been a world s won-der, er the wandering Jew ; for the ram blew in my faceand the wind wetted ail my belly, which caufed me toturn the bach-fide of my coat before and my buttons be¬hind, which was a good fafe guard to my belly,ftarvation of my naked back > as l had not a good Hurton my back, ., • rTom. I am fore then, Pady they would take you for* fTeae. l^o, no, fir, they admired me for riy wiflom,fori al way, turned my buttoijs before when the windblew on behind, but 1 wonder greatly- how the peopleknew my nasji, and where 1 came from; for every oneTold another that was Pady from Cork,. I fuppofe theyknew my face by feeing my name m the news papers.Tom/ Well, Pady, what bufinets did you follow inChTear. To be fore 1 was not idle working at nothingat all, until a recruiting fergeant came to town WUJor three fellows along with him, one beating on a fiddle,and another plavirg on a drum tofling their airs through• the ftreetasif they were going to be married s and It*w them courting nothingbut young men ; fo to bring myWf to no Pr,fer*ent at all 1 lifted for a foldier, becaufe lwas too high for a grenadier.Tom. And what lifting money did you get rady ■Teag. Arra, dear honey, l got five thirtteens and apair of Englilh brogs, the guineas and the reftof the gold^as lent away to London, tothe king my mailer, to buy meHCW flvrts, a cockade, and cotnmca teafing for my hat,18 PA E>Y FROM CORK.that they made me fwcar the malicious oath of devUriengainft the King the colours, and my captain, tellingme if ever I defert and not run away, 'that I fhouldjre/hot, and then whipt to death, through the regiment.Tem. No Pady, it is fir ft whipt and then Ihot youmean. JTcag. Arra, dear fhoy it is all one thing at Jafl, butit is beft to be fhot and 3hen whipt, the clevereft way todie I’ll warrant you.Tom, How much pay did you get, Pady >Tcag. Do you know the little fnt tall Cerjeant that feedme to be a foidier.Tom. And how lhall I know them I never faw, youfool.Teag. Dear (hoy, you may know him- whether youfee him or not; for his fice is all borM in big holes withthe finall pox, h’9 nofe is the colonr of a lobfter’s toe,and Ins ckin like a well waflied potatoe ; hc is the bigeftrogue in our kingipm, you’ll know him when he cheatsyou, and the wide »did, and another mark, he dightshis month before he drinks, and blows his note before hetakes a fnuff j' the rogue Iieights me a fixpence a day, killor no kill, and when I laid Sunday and Saturday bothtogether and all' the days In one day, I can’t make »penny above fixpeuce of it.Tom. You (hould have kept an account, and afk‘dy*ur arraar* once a month.Tcag. That’s what I did, but he read a pater-rxifter,out of his prayer book, wherein all our names are writ¬ten ; fo much for a ftop hold to my gus, buckles toa pair of comical harn hofe, with leather buttons fromtop to toe, and wort of all he would have no lefs then apenny a week to a doftor ; arra faVd I, t never had afore finger, of yet a Tick toe all the days of my life, thenwhat have I to do with t be dodlor, or the doftor, to dowith me.Tom. And did he make you pay all thefe things.Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay; betook me beforehis captain, who made me pay all was in his book; Arramailer captain, faid 1, you arc acomical fortof a fellow howyou might as well*make me pay for my coffin before I air.tkT>T FROM CORK. 19/ejd, as to pay for a daftor before I be fick ; to whichhe anfwcred me i« paffion, firrab, faid he, I have ftenmany a better man buried without a eofin ; fir faid I,then I’ll have a ceffin, die when I will, >f there be asmuch wood in all the world, or I (hall rot be buried atall. Then he called for the fetjeant, faying, you firgo and buy that man’a coffin, and put it in the ftore tillhe die and ftop fixpence a week of his pay for it. No,no, fir faid I. I’ll rather die without a coffin, and feeknone when I‘m dead, but if you be far clipping anotherlixpence off my poor pay keep it all ro yourfelf, and I’llfwear alt} our oaths of agreement we had back again, andthen feckfeldiers where you will.Tom. O then Pady how did you end the mattar ! 'Teag. Arra dear (hoy by the mights ol fhaint Patrickand help of my own broga, I both effded it and mendedit for the next night before that, I gave them leg bail formy fidelity, and then I went about the country a fortuneteller, deaf and dum as I was no t.Tom. How old was you Pady, when you was a foldielaft,Teag. Arra, desrhoney I was three dozen all but two,and it is only but two years fince, fo I wanted only four ofthree dozen yet and when I live fix dozen more, I’ll be olderthen I am. I’ll warrant you.Tom. O but Pady, by your account you are three do¬zen of years already.Teag. O whr.t a big fool are you, now Tom whenyou count the year* I lay fids ; which time I count n»time at all.A NEW CATECHISM.Torn / 'kf' tfc opinions profeff-:d in religion, te IIo . ine P. dy, of whvtprofcffibn art thou ?Pady. Arra, dear (hoy, my religion was too weightya flutter to carry out of my own country ; I was afraidthat you Englilh Prelbytcrians fhould pluck it away fromme.Tom. What Pady, was your religion 'uch a load thatyou could not cany it along with you ?2o V\m FROM CORK.Pady. Yfj that it was, but I carried it always aboutwith me when at home, my fweet crofg upon my dearbrcaft bound to my blest button hole.Tom. -//iid what manner ot worihip did you performby that.Pady. Why 1 adored my erofs, the pope and the piieiVcurfed Oliver as black as a crow, and fwears myl'clfa cut¬throat agaioft all proteftants and church of Rngland-xom. And what is the matter, but you would be achurch of England man, or a Scotch Preibyterian yourfelfPadyji Recaufe it is unnatural for an Irifhman, but hadflisint Patrick, been a Prclbyterian, 1 had been the fame.Tom. And for what reafon would you be a Prtlbyterianthen, Pady.Pady. Bccaufe they have liberty to cat ffefh in Lent,,and every thing that is fit for the belly.Tom. What Pady, are you fuch a lover of tlerti thatyou would change your profeffion for it.Pady. O ye* that’s what, I would, J love flelh of allkinds, (beep’s beef fvrine’s mutton, hares flefli, and hen’avenifion ; but our religion is one of the hungrieft in ull theworld, ah ! but it makes my teeth to weep and my bellytg water, when 1 fee the Scots Prcfoyterian’s and Englilhchurchmen, in time of Lent, feeding upon ball’s bafttrdl,and (beeps young children.Tom. Why, Pady, do you fay the bull his a fornicator,and gets baftardj ? •Pady. v/rra dear shoy, 1^ never faw the cowand herhusband all the days of my life, nor yet before 1 was born,going to she church to be married, a nd what then can hisfons and daughters be but bafttrds.Tom. O Pady, Pady, the cow is but a cow and fo areyou ; but what reward wifi you get when you are dead,for punilhing your belly fo while you are alive.Pady. By (haint Patrick 1 will live like a king, when Iam dead, for l will neithetdie for raeatuor drink.Tom. What Pady, do you think that you arc to comealive again when you are dead ?Pady. O yco, that arc true Roman. Cathoii^.PADY FROM CORK. 23will live a Ung time after we are dead ; when'y go downlove with the pnefta, and the good people of our or'e-'1feffion. *Tom. yfnd what affurance can yourpriefts give von ofthat. -Parly. Arra, dear (hoy, ourpriea is a great Oraint, anda good fiioul, he can repeat a Pater Noher,' and Ava"Maria, which will fright the very horned devil himfelf,and make him run for it, until he be like to fall and breakhi* neck.Tom. And what does he give you when you aie dying■that makes you come alive again.Pady. Why h« writes a letter upon our tongues, feal-ed with a wafer, gives us a facrament in our mouth, with,a pardon, and’* direftioii in our right hand, who to call for*t the port* of Purgatory.Tom. To whom do they direift the dead.Pady. Why tha Englilh Romans when they die,are alldircAed to .fnaint ‘George, the Scot* to flumt Andrew,the Welch to ihiint David, and our t>wn dear country*men, muft every ftoul of them go to fhaint Patrick, butthem that have no money to pay the prieft for a pardonand thofe that are drowned or die by therafslves in thefcalds, without a prieft it loft, and fent away aa black¬guard fcoundre'.s to wander up and down while the worldHand*} among the brownies, faries, mermaid*, fe*-devi!»and water, kelpies.Tom. And what money defign you to give the pritfts.for your pardon.Pady. Dear fhoy, I wifh I had, firft the money,woukPtake for it, I would rather drink it myfelf and then.give him.both myfcbill and my fconeft word, payable in tbeethar world.Tom. And how then are you to get a paffsge to theother world, or who i* to carry you there.Pady. D‘my dear ihoy, Tom, you know nothing of thematter; for, when I die, they will burry my body,blood dirt and bones, only my fkin will be blown op fbliof wind and fpirit, my dear fhoul I mean : and then Iwill be blown over to the other world, on tbe winnof the wind i aid after that I flwll saver be kiffdPADY FROM CORK.p j Mfown’d nor yet die in my bed, for when any,dt aits r.e a blow, my new body will buff upon itlikeabHddcr.TPam. But what Way will you go to that new world,or where is it. ...Pacty. y/i-ra dear fhoy, the prteft knows where it is butI do not, but the Pope of Rome keeps the cutter port,{ha'mt Patrick the inner port, and gives us a (jireaion ofthe way ft18'111 P8trick’! pal8C{;» which Hands on thebead of the Stygian Loch, where i’ll have no more to dobut ahap at the gate. . .Tem. What is the need of chaping at the gate, is it not^'Vady/pear (hoy, you know little aboat it, for thereis none can enter there but red hot Jrifhmen, for when Jeall « ^ull.eu dear honey, (haint Patrick, connteiianceTOyr own dear! couutryman if you will.” Then thecates, will he opened direftly to me, for he knowsand loves a» Irifliman’s voice, as he lovas hu ownh*To’m. And what emertainment will you get when youarVady, O my dear we are all kept there unto a geneml review which is commonly once in the week ; amral review which is commonly once in u.c.11 the blackguard fcoundnls is pick’t out of the ranks,and one half uf the* « f«»t »way to the Elfiyan fieldat* carry the weeds ftom among the potatoes, the other,half of them to the viver flicks to catch hflies for mamtPttiick’a table ; and all them that are owing the prieftsany money is put in the black hole, and then given intothe hands of a great b'ack bitch of a devil, which theykeep for a hangman, who whips them up and down thefmckv dungeon every morning for fix monthr, tl.cn hold*their hare hack fide to a fire, until their hips be all inone blifter and after all they are fent away to the poor.arifh of Pittrantrum, where tliey’U get nothing to eat,but cold fowens, barge* and Utter milk.Pom. And where does your good pcople go whes theyare narted from the bad ?* ■ And where would you have thorn to to go, hutPADY FROM CORK.onto (haint Patrick’s palace, and then they way go downthe bai k ftairs unto the garden of Eden now calledParadice ; ah ! n*y dear fhny tbis is the real iondame taltruths of our Romiftj Religion and a deep doAn'ne it is,but your Prrfty'erian, and EnglWh churchmen will lotbelieve it and by lhaint Patrick neither can I, until I feemore of it c »ane to pafs.Tom. And what mannerof live* does yOuy priefl* orderyou to live in the World to come ? "Pady. Arra dear (hoy if I had money ebt firgK'to buypardons from our priefts, I might commit all the lies for¬bidden in our hdly books, aa he gives theW’^tolerationto lie and cheat all the world, but thofe of ourownpro-feflion-Tom. What Psdy are you not to*do as mr.ch jufliccto a protaeflant as a pried.Pady. .0 my^earfnoy,thcmoft judice we are command-. ed to do to a preteftan , is to whip and torment them tillthey eonfefe themfclvea in the Romilh Faith, and tl)en cuttheir throats that they may die believers.Tom. And what bufinefs do you follow after at pre¬sent Pady. Arra dearihoy, lam a mountain failor and myfuplication is as follows.Pidv’s Humble Pbtitioh, oa SurmcATtoH.OOD'Chiiflian people, behold me a man, whohas corn’d through a world of wonders a hell full «fhard (hips, dangers by fea, and dangers by land, aud yet1 am alive, you may lee mj band crooked like a foalsfoot and that is no wonder at all eoufidering my fuffer-ing’s and forrowsj oh! oh! good people 1 was aman in my t me who had pi enty of the gold plenty ofthe filver,; plenty of the clothes, plenty cl the butter,the betr, beef and bifquet. And now, now, I have no¬thing, being taken by the Turks, and relieved by theSpainardfl, by fixty fix days at the fiege cf Gibraltar, andgot nothing to eat but fea wreck and raw muflcls ; thenput to fea for our faftey, caft upon the Barbarian coaft»among the woeful wicked Algerines where we were to**4 PADY FROM CORK,ken and tied with tugs and tedders, horfe locks and cow-chains; then cut and call rate yard a ttfticlei quite a-way, if you will not believe, put in your hand and feelhow «*ery female’s made fmooth by the fhear-bone, wherenothing is to be feen but wliat is natural. Then madeour efcape to the defavt or wild wildcrnefs of Aarbia; wherewe lived amongll the wi'd affes, upon wind fand, andfaplefs ling. Afterwards put to tea in tha hull of an oldhoufe ; where we were toffed above and bslow the cloudsbeing driven thro* thickets and groves by ierce, courfe,calm and contrary winds; at lad was cad away uponSalifbury plains, where our rcffel was dafh’d to piecesagainft a cabbage dock. And now my humble petition toyou good Chriflian people, is for one hundred of your beef,one hundred of your butter, another of yaur cheefe, a calkofjyouv bilket, a tun*of your beer, a keg of your rum, witha pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of yourfilver, a few of your halfpence or farthings, a waughtofyour butter milk, a pair of your old breeches, ftockings ©rfhoes, or even a chaw of tobacco for charity ’s fake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.I Believe the Pope of Rome; to be the right heir andtrue fucceffor of Peter the Apoftle, and that he hasa power above the kings of the world, being fpiritualaad temporal, endowed with a communication far be-yand the grave, and can bring up any* *. e, or departed flioul* he pleafes, even as thea devil in its worn»n of Endor brought up Samuel toRead Ssul, by the fame power he can, affiftedby the enchantments of old Mans flab, aking in Iferal. I believe alfo in the Romifh priefts, thatthey are very civil chafte gentlemen, keep no wives of their•wn, bat partakes a little of other mens wives in feeretcoafeffion, I acknowledge the worlhping of images andvelicks of lhaints departed to be very juft ; but if they hearand do not help us, O they ar« but a pares! cf ungnUfulwretches,F I N I S.