APrayer Book,FORFAMILIES AND PRIVATE PERSONS,Upon various Subjects and Occasions;IN WHICHAll the Prayers are so arranged, that when any one is toolong to be used without inconvenience, it may be shorten¬ed by leaving out some of the paragraphs:—and this maybe done without injury to the connection.KILMARNOCK:PRINTED BT H. CRAWFORD, BOOKSELLER.1831.PRAYER BOOK.The fallowing Admonition, read occa,'tonally beforeFamily-worship, is very proper to produce seriousnessof mind, and to keep up a godly jealousy, lest hypocrisyand formality should render this important duty of nouse.My Friends and Fellow-Chiistians :WE, dust and ashes, are assembled to speak untothe holy Lord God of heaven and earth, our Makerand our Judge, who deserves from us all possiblereverence whenever we presume to call upon him.We are going to pray to that God who strictlycharges us to take heed that we draw not nigh tohim with our lips whilst our hearts are far fromhim—to that God who is of purer eyes than to re¬gard our services without the mediation of theHoly One and the Just, who died for our sins, buthath promised to give us whatever we shall ask ofhim in his name, and to perform all our petitions.Now therefore let us lift up our hearts to himthat he may fill us with reverence and godly fear,with sincerity and lowliness of mind, with livelyfaith in the blood and prevailing intercession ofJesus, and with assurance that we shall receivewhatever we ask according to his will. With theseJioly dispositions we should desire always to bowdowu ©ur knees before God.3A FAMILY MORNING PRAYER.D thou Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, andd of glory, who hast so loved the world as toe thy only-begotten Son, to the end that all whoieve in him should not perish but have everlast-; life, mercifully regard us miserable sinners,on seest how slow of heart we are to believe the6rd thou hast given of thy Son. Though wed of his glory, how little does it affect us!lough he has a name which is above every nameheaven or earth, how little affiance do we feelhim ! or consolation from all that he hath doned suffered !Have compassion upon us, O Lord, and help us.ve us what thou hast most graciously promised,r Spirit of truth, to open our understanding, that: may understand the things which are spoken ofy Son in the scriptures. O give us the Spirit ofsdom and revelation in the knowledge of him;his person and his office ; of his love and powerwards all that hear his voice and follow him ;at so we may abound in clear, magnificent, anddearing thoughts of Christ Jasus the Lord : that■ may be no less precious to us than he was toe glorious company of the apostles, and the noblemy of martyrs. Thou, O God, hast declaredat thy Son shall be exalted and extolled, andall be very high. Help us, we earnestly prayee, to give him this honour day by day, morenfectly, Enable us to comprehend with ail saintsne immeasurable extent of his love ; the breadthid length, the height and depth thereof.We beg this of thee, O our God, in order that!e may have our affections taised up to heaven,ihere Christ sitteth on thy right hand : that weImay grow more dead to the world, and walk m*becoming our Christian character ; that we maj t:enriched as much as possible with light and grajoy and peace in this present life; and so si;forth the praises of him who hath called us ou t'darkness into marvellous light.We beseech thee that the excellency of :knowledge of Christ may be evidenced to oth*>:by our adding day by day to our faith a noChristian courage, in defence of his truth, hono tand government; by a constant victory over «corrupt affections; by a moderate use of all lawcomforts; by a meek and quiet spirit under all < ttrials, and by resignation to the will of our he; :enly Father.Grant, O Lord, that our knowledge of thedemption that is in Jesus, may work effectually tday upon our hearts. Let the Saviour’s love 9us be the pattern of ours to all that are round abe;us: let it make us zealous to embrace all oppitunities of ministering to the happiness of one arther. If we cannot assist the needy by our alnor protect the oppressed by our power, O letdiligently exercise love, in abstaining from all ucharitableness of speech, from all frowardness a:evil tempers: let us look upon the failings of othewith pity, as if they were cur own : make us kuand tender hearted, forbearing and forgiving aas thou, for Christ’s sake, hast forgiven us. Banifrom our dwelling all variance, whisperings, hearburnings, and evil surmisings. Let peace and getleness, meekness and goodness be exercised by ;of us one tow ards another, and the only contenticrn our family be this, who shall conform mostthe will of God, by abounding in brotherly kinpess and fervent charity. Thou, O God, that ma53est men to be of one mind that dwell together, in¬spire us with a spirit of concord, and harmonise allour naturally selfish tempers. O let this benefit atleast be found from our family-devotion, that weagree better together, and live more in peace andquietness, than those who call not upon thee; wholie down and rise up like the herd of the stall., nev¬er saying, Where is God their Maker ?Continue, we beseech thee, if it seemeth good tothee, the voice of health and strength amongst us,and the favour of thy prosperous providence; butgive us grace to expect and to be ready for achange. And, as in a day, nay, in an hour, ourprosperity may be turned by thee into deep afflic¬tion, our health into pining sickness, our ease intotoifnenting pain, and our life into death. O LordGod, establish us in Christ Jesus, and give the ear¬nest of thy spirit in our hearts, that, whatever weare called to suffer, we may not be afraid with anyamazement, but bear our cross cheerfully, to theedification of those around us.Comfort and protect continually all our near re¬lations and dear friends. Sanctify to them theirpresent circumstances whatever they are. Maythey mind the things of the Spirit, and never bedeluded by the things of time and sense. Be theirguide through life, and at death give them admis¬sion into thy kingdom and glory.Promote, O God, the peace and welfare of thisour country. Let thy servant, our most graciousKing, be continually guided by thy counsel, andreign over us in righteousness. May he and hisMinisters with unwearied labour seek to promotethy glory and his people’s good.Visit and relieve all who are distressed or op¬pressed ; regard their tears, hear their sighs, giveaMHHhsMKsI6iliern to see their sin in their suffering, to humblethemselves under t.hy hand, and fin'd that it is goodfor them to be afflicted. Bless our enemies; db‘'^bod to them that hate us; and ever enable us toreturn good-will for evil.Accept out praises for our continued preserva¬tion by thy goodness, who has first brought us intobeing ; for sleep upon our beds, for the return ofthe day after the shades of darkness, for the Useof oUr reason, the comfort of this opportunity ofworshipping thy name, and, above all, for the lightof life, the Sun of righteousness, Christ Jesus; for’vthom with all that is within us we should bless1thy name ; in whom we commend ourselves andour services to thee; and to whom, with thyselfand the Holy Ghost, one God over all, be all hon¬our and praise, love and obedience, for evermore.Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed bethy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will bedone in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this dayour daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses,as we forgive them that trespass against us; andlead us not into temptt:tion, but deliver us fromevil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power,and the glory, for ever arid ever. Amen.A FAMILY EVENING PRAYER.BLESSED and holy Lord God, who didst makeall things by thy power, who rulest all things bythy providence, and fillest all places with thy pre¬sence, we thy unworthy creatures beseech thee tofill our hearts with an awful sense of thee, and withhumility, sincerity, and faith in Christ ih our ap¬proaches to thee.We thankfully acknowledge our absolute de-7tindence upon thee: for our lives, and all the com-lirts of them, we are indebted to thy bounty. Thyinds hast fashioned us in the womb, brought usto this world, and ever since we saw the lightled us with variety of good. We adore thy spar-g mercy. Justly mightest thou have broughti»n us all the curses written in the book of thyw against our transgressions: and had thy ways:en as our ways, and thy thoughts like our[Oughts towards our enemies, we had long since:en past the power of offering to thee our thanksid praise, beyond the benefit of prayer, or the>pe of pardon.We confess, O Lord, we have been transgressorsthy law, in thought, word, and deed. We aremrgeable with the workings and defilements ofide, and hypocrisy, of uncharitableness and sen-lality, of self-love, and worldliness of heart, not-ithstanding all the methods thou hast taken to[al these diseases of our souls. We have sinned>ainst the clear revelation of thy will, and therongest obligations binding us to comply with it.re have sinned against thy most inviting promises,id thy most dreadful threatenings; against theequent warnings of thy word, the renewed mo¬ms and powerful convictions of thy Spirit, ande precious blood of Christ. We have sinnedgainst the light of our understanding, againstromises and purposes of obedience, and againste strongest remonstrances of our own conscien-Js.] O God, we cannot recount the number of ourjns, nor fully set in order all their aggravations.ife should not therefore presume to ask for thyurdoning mercy, if we did net trust that thypirit hast created within us a holy mourning for8all our wickedness, and lor that corruption of ornature, from whence, as their fountain, all the?poisonous streams have flowed. O humble us eifectually, and place before us all the detestablqualities which meet together in every act of sin*that injustice and contempt towards thee; that r«bellion and ingratitude which prevail in it. Ancoh ! most merciful Father, speak peace to our soulweary and heavy laden with guilt, through tfdeath and sufferings of thy dear Son, and for tlsake of his precious sacrifice avert the punishmerfrom us. Increase in us that faith wheieby onlwe can be justified, and have peace with the«through out Lord Jesus Christ.Accompany thy patdoning mercy with thy purfying grace. Help us, O Father, thou God of apower and might, to put off the old man, which .corrupt, according to the deceitful lusts, and to pton the new man w'hich is cieated after thine owimage, in righteousness and true holiness. Givus a new heart, and put within us a new spiriO grant us a mind weaned from the pomps anpleasures'; the profits and honours, and all the traiisitory enjoyments of the flesh; but hungeiinand thirsting after righteousness. Prevent us bthy grace, that we may never more commit siW’ifh the deceitful hope of gaining advantage by iImpress us continually with the conviction, tbithe gaining of the whole w orld can be no reconpence for the loss of the soul,O let that solemn account we must ere Iongive, when the throne shall be set, the books bopened, and the dead, small and great, stand before God, influence the whole'course of our livesO let us so believe and so obey, that when Chrisshall come in the clouds with power and grea9’■j, we may then cry out in holy rapture, Lo,is our God, we have waited for him, and hej! save us 1 This is the Lord, we will be gladtil rejoice in his salvation !ifTo thy merciful protection, O God, we humblynmit ourselves, our dear friends, and relationss night. The darkness is no darkness w:th thee,t the night is as clear as the day. Defend, we.* eech thee, our persons, our dwellings, and ourt,sessions. Refresh us with sweet sleep; and:h the health and strength of our bodies, and thei jour of our minds, let us serve thee all our days,t, through the gate of death we enter into thatissed kingdom, where there is no night; whereshall receive the end of our faith, even the sal-tion of our souls, through Jesus Christ; in de-ndence upon whose righteousness and interces->n we further pray ; Our Father, See.FOR THE LORD’S-DAY MORNING.H ANKS be unto thee, O most merciful and gra-ous God, for having devoted this day to thy ser-ce. Never can we sufficiently express the obli-itions we owe thee for this stated season of restom labour ; for this delightful oppoitunity afford-1 us of imitating the heavenly host, whilst we as*mble ourselves with one heart and voice to glorifysee, O God, our heavenly Father; and thee, Ohrist, our Advocate, Righteousness, and Life;nd thee. O eternal Spirit, the Comforter and Sanc-fier of the church of God.We praise thee, who instead of loathing our pet;*nns for our sinful pride and stubborn forgetfulnessf thee, hast taken the most effectual methods to;each us the knowledge and plant in us the love oft10thy name. We praise thee that thou hast co:mantled us to make on this day public confessli-of our guilt, and of thy hatred of sin; of our dobedience and the riches of thy forbearance towatus ; of our weakness, depravity, and need of tperpetual grace to help us. We praise thee Jcommanding us to make public intercession for ;.sorts and conditions of men, in order that chearts might be the more enlarged towards theiand our hands the more ready to minister to th'necessities. We praise thee for this opportunityhearing thy holy scripture, which is profitable 1our reproof, for our correction, for our instruetfin righteousness.We bless thee, that we have oarr habitation fixin the land of liberty, under the bright beamsthy glorious gospel: that we can worship thee acording to our conscience, no one making us afraithat we are not required to pay adoration to thowho by nature are not gods, nor compelled to bedown at the altar of idols. We praise thee thv/e are in health and strength to use the sacred pportunity of going with the multitude that ketthy holy.day, into the house where thou hast rcoided thy name, and piomised to meet and bleus. How amiable are thy dwellings, O Lord"'hosts! one day employed in them is better thanthousand engrossed by the business of the world.We praise thee also for passing by all the prowcations and insults which we have offered unto th«by abusing and profaning this holy day, by our d.testable presumption in compassing thee about witdeceit and lies O how often have we rushed intthe courts of thy house without meditation, wit!out prayer, without any desire to worship thee witan holy worship! how often have we dissemble1\}ind pretended to give thee glory, when we wereret living in our sins, making thee angry with us:very day, and casting thy law behind us!O, our Gad, let the time past suffice for us to[have entered into thy courts thoughtless and un¬humbled, self satisfied and self-sufficient Nowteach us effectually to reverence thy sanctuary ;make us feel awful conceptions of the God withwhom we have to do, and of the infinite impqr;tance of the holy exercises in which we are goingto engage. Thou knowest our souls cleave to t: every dust of the ground O send thy quickeningSpirit to raise our thoughts and desires up to theein every part of thy holy worship. Shield us onevery side from the flesh, the world, and the devil,that they may have no power to fill us with sinfuldistractions, and make us absent in spirit while weare presenting our bodies in thy temple.While we confess our guilt, open thou our un¬derstanding, we beseech thee, that we may under¬stand all the aggravations of our wickedness. Callback to our remembrance whatever at any time hasmade us appear most vile in our own eyes, that wemay now feel a godly sorrow, and be really asham¬ed and confounded at the sight of our iniquity.—Accompany, we beseech thee, the reading,of thymost holy word with the power of thy own Spirit,that so the practice of thy saints, and thy peculiarfavour towards them, may stir us up to be diligentrollowers of their examples: that we may receivethe strong consolation from thy promises, which inChrist Jesus are all sure and infallibly certain, and,by hearing the gospel proclaimed, attain to clearerviews of thy great salvation. When we ate offer¬ing up our intercession to thee, give us to feel ten¬derness of heart, melting pity towards all pur fel-j12low-creatures in distress, and very fervent desirethat thou wouldst immediately appear for theirrelief. When we ask for mercy and forgiveness,strength and holiness of heart, may we ask with an^earnestness suited to the value of these gifts andwith a strong conviction of our unavoidable miseryif our suit is rejected.When we join in giving thanks unto thy name,O make all thy goodness to pass before us. Ex¬cite in us such a lively remembrance of the multi¬tude of thy mercies towards us, as shall fill oursouls as it were with marrow and fatness, whilstour mouths are praising thee with joyful lips —From the beginning to the conclusion of the serviceof thy sanctuary, by the perpetual influence of thyfree Spirit, do thou uphold us, that we may besatisfied with the pleasures of thy house, and offerto thee a pure offering in righteousness.And, as thou, O Lord, hast ordained that thepeople should seek thy law at the mouth of thyministers, do thou fill them with knowledge andsound doctrine ; that they may preach not them¬selves, but Christ J-sus the Lord. Under their in¬structions, delivered according to thy will, mayour ignorance be dispelled, our slothful heartsquickened, our fears removed, our hope encourag¬ed and our souls established in grace.Finally, we beseech thee, O God, to incline ourhearts to sanctify this wh de day Make it our de¬light to employ our time in reading thy word, inmeditation and privacy, not yielding to the sinful¬ness of our hearts, or the custom of the world, inspeaking our own words, in thinking our ownthoughts, and finding our own pleasure on thy holyday. And grant us grace so to use this day ofrest and of public worship in this life, that we maya*13none of us fail of having a part in the everlastingadoration, praise, and love of thy name in the lifeto come, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.A FAMILY PRAYER ON THE EVENINGOF THE LORD’S DAY.O LORD, thou art great, wonderful, and holy.Thou art exalted far above all blessing and praisewhich can ever be offered to thee by the angels oflight: yet such is thy condescending mercy, thatthe doors of thy house have been open this day tous; vile dust and miserable sinners. We have beenwaiting on thee in the ordinances of thy own ap¬pointment; and as we implored the crmfort andhelp of thy Spirit, before we presented ourselvesin thy courts, so now as becometh us in boundenduty, we desire to return thee our most heartythanks and praise, if we have found any deliver¬ance from the hardness, unbelief, distraction, anddeceitfulness of our depraved hearts, whilst we svereoffering our vows unto thee.Not unto us, not unto us, but to the influence ofthy Spirit be the praise, if we have confessed oursins this day with any self loathing, and been melt-ed into contrition for our offences ; if the forbear¬ance thou hast shewn towards us, and thy tenderpity in sparing us, though so richly deserving dam¬nation, have been sensible to our hearts, whilst weIt were accusing ourselves before thee. We praisethee if we have sanctified this day, and our holyservices in it, to the honour of our L'>rd JesusChrist, by looking only to the virtue of his atone-mint for the remission of >ur sins. We bless theeif ^ have found thy word sweet unto us, and theincreasing discovery of thy love delightful to our14hearts; if we have been filled with faith, and ex¬perienced in our hearts the Spirit of grace, of pray¬er and supplication j so that instead of saying,When will the sabbath be gone, that we may buyand sell and get gain ? we have found the spiritualprovisions of thy house a feast indeed to our souls.We thank thee if thy word preached hath searchedus, making manifest any hidden corruption j if ithas been for our edification, exhortation, and com¬fort in Christ Jesus We thank thee, if it has beena pleasant and joyful thing to us to be thankful, t<?speak good of thy name, and to declare thy good¬ness towards the children of men.Lord, increase and stir up within us evermoredeyout affections when we call upon thee; and inwhatsoever we have displeased thee this day, O dothou pardon us Overlook what has been wanting,forgive what has been amiss, though we are tooblind ourselves to perceive it. There is iniquityin our most holy offerings. Purge away, we berjeech thee, the defilement of them in the fountainopened for sin and for uncleanness. Accept ourdevotions at the hands of our faithful and mercifulHigh-priest, and may our sacrifices bp perfume^with ttre sweet incense of his merits.For his sake fulfil all the requests we have thisclay made known unto thee. O give us strengthand power to live more according to thy will, inall righteousness and holiness. Let the benefit andsuccess of our public worship be manifested in ourwhole deportment; and the influence of the goodimpressions made upon us in thy house, appear inour sincere love both to God and man, in our ab¬horring all that is evil, and cleaving to that whi-'his good. Let every heavenly and Christian * up¬per we have this dav requested shine in on’ con-15▼ers^tion, and our lives be a transcript of the grace?we ask in our prayers. May we return again toour respective employments armed with the wholearmour of God, and determined in nothing wilful^ly to cffend thee. May thy praise and love, thypower and glory, and the mightiness of thy king-dom, be much in our thoughts, till at length weare brought to that everlasting sabbath where weshall no more need the use ot these means: nomore behold thee our God at a distance, and thro’ordinances dai kly, bin see thee face to face, andknow thee even as we are known.We desire now particularly to recommend to thymercy all who are united to us by the ties of kin*dred or special friendship. Let none of themslightly esteem this holy day, or blindly think itenough to be merely present at the assemblies ofthy people. May they ever worship thee in spiritand uuth, and esteem this day their delight.We beg thy mercy upon all those nations whichyet sit in darkness and the shadow of death, thattire Sun of righteousness may arise upon them toguide their feet into the way of peace. O hastenthe time, when all thou bast promised concerningthy church in the last days shall be accomplished :bring in the fulness of the Gentiles, and let ^11Israel be saved. Revive and cause to flourish inall places upon earth pure and undefiled religion.Let the power of godliness prevail, and daily ob¬tain victory over the formality and hypocrisy ofmere nominal Christians.Particulaily we recommend to thy protection andtenderest care, the kingdom in which we dweP.We entreat thee to direct, sanctify, and govern theheart of our Sovereign Lord the king. Prosperall his counsels for the good of his subjects, M3y16he live dear to thee, beloved of his people, and re¬ceive at thy hands, after death, a crown of glory.Bless the Royal Family, and all that are in an-thority over us,Take us this night, O our God, under thy pro¬tection, Watch over us whilst we sleep; if wewake in the night season, may our meditation ofthee be sweet, and our souls be glad in the Lord.If we are spared to see the light of the returningday, may we rise from our beds to give all dili¬gence to walk before thee to all well-pleasing And whether we wake or sleep, live or die, maywe he the Lord’s To him, with thee, O Father,and the Holy Ghost, be ascribed, as is most due,everlasting praise, might, majesty, and dominion.Amen.A PRAYER TO BE USED WHEN ANYMEMBER OF THE FAMILY IS SICK;Either entire as a Morning or Evening Prayer for the Fam¬ily, or occasionally with some of the Family, or in part,paragraphs selected from it being added to the usualfamily devotions.O THOU infinitely great and glorious God, thoukillest and makest alive. Thou woundest, and thyhands make whole. Thou bringest down to thegrave, and bringest back again- Thou dost ac¬cording to thy will in the armies of heaven, andamong the inhabitants of the earth ; and none canstay thine hand, or say unto thee, What dost thou ?yet righteous art thou in all thy ways, and holy inall thy works Even when thou afflxtest, andcausest trouble and heaviness to fall upon us, it isthat we may learn righteousaess from thy judg¬ments, and receive profit from thy c rrrection.17Wherefore, though thou hast now visited ourhouse with sickness, and art calling us to humilia¬tion for our sins, yet we wo«ld still speak good ofthy name, and love and bless thee. We desire atthis season to remember all the past mercies withwhich thou hast been pleased to bless us and ourhousehold. God forbid that our present griefshould make us unmindful of the constant benefitswe have enjoyed. How long has each of our fam¬ily laid down and risen up, gone out and come inin health, strength and peace? How long has thecandle of the Lord shone upon us without inter¬mission ? For these multiplied favours, blessed,O Lord, be thy good and holy name ; since thesmallest of benefits is more than we deserve, andthe sharpest affliction less.To us, on account of cur transgressions, is mostjustly due indignation and wrath, tribulation andanguish. Wherefore then should living men com¬plain, men and transgressors, for the punishmentof their sins ? Shall we receive so much good atthe hand of the Lord, and shall we not icceive evil?patiently and contentedly receive evil also; thistemper we know, O Lord, is our bounden duty fO form it in us. And as in great compassion tous, thou hast opened a way of relief for us underevery trouble, by directing, commanding, and en¬couraging us in all our afflictions to pour out ourcomplaints unto thee, and tell thee of all we fearand feel; to thee, O Father of mercies, do we makeour supplication at this time. O Lord be not farfiora us.In entire submission to thy most wise and holywill, we do now earnestly pray for that personw hose sickness fills us with so much concern. Olook upon him (or her) in his low estate ; suffer not,18we beseech thee, his disorder to proceed, and letnot this sickness be unto death, but be for the man¬ifestation of thy grace towards us all. Thouknowest, Lord, his frame ; lay no more upon himthan thou wilt enable him to bear with patienceand quietness of mind. And O, thou great Phy¬sician, without whom all others are of no value, dothou direct to the most proper medicines, and blessthe art of healing to his body, and our great com¬fort. In thy due time restore thy servant to healthand strength jgain, that he may have a longer dayof grace and salvation, prove moro useful, and domore good in his generation.Ih the mean time, however thou shall think fitto dispose of him, O sanctify unto him this afflic¬tion ; work in him deep humiliation for his sin;bless him with repentance unto life : enable him byfaith to behold the Lamb of God, and to trust inthe fountain opened in his blood for the remjssionOf sins, that, being justified through faith, he mayhave peace with God through Jesus Christ ourLord Make all his bed in his sickness, and letpatience have its perfect work in his soul. Raisehim up to praise thy name, to pay those vows hemakes in trouble before the assembly of thy saints,and to walk in newness of life, lint if thou dustnot see fit to spate thy servant, whom we are nowremembering before thee, O prepare every One ofthis family according to our several relations, forthe awful stroke With respect to himself, if thetime of his departure draweth nigh, O let his heartbe comforted by thy promises in Christ, and tastethat thou art gracious unto him. May his soul hesafe and happy at the hour of death ; and in thejSp'eat day of the Lord Jesus Christ m.ay he be foundamongst those who died in him.19And help us all, who are now in health, to im¬prove this loud and solemn call to prepare for ourown sickness and decease. Let us not abuse ourbodily strength to encourage ourselves in sinfulsecurity and impenitence. Grant that we may al¬ways be ready, by performing the will of our Lord,that whensoever he shall come, we may be foundof him in peace and enter into his joy'; that when¬ever our health is turned into sickness, and ourstrength into weakness, and our ease into sharppain, we may not be cast down or perplexed, butfeel in our souls those supports and consolations,which the world cannot give* nor death itself takeaway.Hear us, O Lord our God, in these our humblerequests: forgive us our sins; and accept our per¬sons and our services through Jesus Christ ourLord. Amen.A THANKSGIVING FOR THE RECOVERYOF A SICK MEMBER.MOST gracious and holy, good and merciful God !We have heard, we have seen, we hav^ experiencedthy love. Blessed, for ever blessed be thy name, thatinstead of being known to us by the judgments oursins have deserved, thou art manifested to us as theGod willing to forgive all our iniquities. Thouhast delivered our eyes from tears, and our heartsfrom anguish. Thy servant, whom thou hastlately afflicted, is now a monument of thy sparingmercy Thou hast chastened and corrected himfor her) but thou hast not delivered him over untodeath. Thou hast turned our mourning into joy,atnd our fears into songs of praise.O may this thy servant have been spared in or-20rter to live hereafter to the glory of thy name.—We beseech thee perfect all that concerns his re¬covery ; and grant that this gracious interpositionmay properly affect both him and every one of usin this family. From henceforth may we all moreentirely depend upon thee for the continuance andpreservation of our dearest earthly comforts: maywe consider them as thy free gifts, O Lord, andknow that they alone makest every earthly blessingbe to us what it is.And give us grace so to use and enjoy all ourtemporal comforts, as those who know that thefashion of this world passeth away. Grant -vemay learn from this late affliction in orr family tolive more like persons who are soon to be separat¬ed by death, and to give all diligence to grow richtowards God, that we may be better prepared fora breach in our family whenever it shall come. A ndwhensoever, O God, thou sbalt be pleased to callany of us away, though for a season our family maythus be separated, may we all be united again inheaven, and be for ever with the Lord and withone another-That we may none of us fall short of so gloriousan end, O give ns a clear knowledge of the excel¬lency of our God, and a firmer dependassce uponthe word of thy grace. Grant us a stronger loveto the Lord Jesus Christ, and a greater resemb-hmce of him ; that each of us in our particular sta¬tion may be zealous for God, full of mercy E.ndjustice towards men, and possess every temperwhereby God can be glorified in us.Fill our minds with a more cheerful and livelysense of our obligations to thee, especially for thislate additional mercy ) write it, we beseech thee,on our hearts, so that no temptation from without,21or coiruption from within, may make us ever actas if we forgot it.And now, O Lord, we again present both our*selves and family, all we have and all we are, alively sacrifice unto thee for all cur remaining days.Be with us when we are passing through the val¬ley of the shadow of death; may we then fear noevil, nor have cause to fear any. Guard us throughthe gloomy passage, and bring us safe to thineeternal kingdom and glory. We humbly ask allthese blessings, though utterly unworthy ourselvesof any notice, in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord,who ever liveth to make intercession for us. Amen.FOR THE DUE DISCHARGE OF DOMES*TIC DUTIES.O LORD and heavenly Father, who hast com-iranded us conscientiously to discharge each dutywe owe one to another, take away, we beseech thee,from us all stubbornness, pride, and self-conceit;all envy, hatred, and ill-will, which would lead usto despise thy gracious restraints, and destroy thatharmony which thou w-ouldest have to reign inevery family. From the least to the greatest mem¬ber of each house, give them grace to walk beforethee unto all well-pleasing.Teach and incline servants to do their work withsingleness of eye, as unto Christ; to be ambiticusof serving their masters with all fidelity, and ofpreventing all just cause of anger or rebuke fromthem for obstinacy, sloth, or carelessness- Grantthem wisdom to consider their station not as anyhardship, nmch less any disgrace to them, but asthe post which thy fatherly love hath appointedthem to fill. Give them to understand, to theirBKIMbl$2great peace and strong consolation, that by ddirtgtheir work from a principle of faith and love toChrist Jesus, they may stand as high in thy favour,imd grow as rich towards God, as if their conditionentitled them to all respect from the world. Andmay they never imagine they are religious andChristians altogether, any longer than they abstainfrom all those frauds and deceits, which they aretempted to use for filthy lucre’s sake.Be merciful and gracious, O God, to all headsand governors of families. Save them from haugh¬tiness of carriage, from passionate reproaches, andevery kind of unchristian treatment of their inferi¬ors and dependants. O ! convince the rich that itis not their merit, but thy providence alone thatmakes the difference of station, and appoints thesubordination : not that they should be as tyrantsin their houses, and imperious to their servants, butthat they should add to the comfort of those whoare under them. Enable them therefore carefullyto avoid hurting those who labour for them, bytheir frowardness, and behaving towards them withsuch rudeness, as they would be ashamed to shewto any equal. Imprint upon their minds a livelyremembrance that they have a master in heaven,who is no respecter of the persons of men, beforewhom both masters and servants must give a strictand solemn account of their behaviour to eachother. Inspire all who preside in families not onlywith justice, but with mercy and pity towards theirservants. Like the good centurion, whose praiseis in the gospel, may they sympathise with themin all their afflictions, be glad to alleviate their bur¬den, When sickness and old age oppress them, andto sweeten the bitter cup that is appointed them todrink. Give them grace to teach their servants£3tfce fear of the Lord by their own example, and tolet their light so shine before them, that they maybe led to glorify God also, in whose hands is theirbreath, and whose are all their ways.Dispose, O Lord, the hearts of all parents to re*Ceive and obey thy commands addressed in a pe*culiar manner to them. Teach them always to re¬gard their children as immortal souls intrusted to,their care, and for whose nurture and admonitionlin the iear of the Lord they are strictly answerable ;and may they esteem it their greatest pleasure, andtheir highest honour, to be teaching their childrenthy sacred truths, when they sit with them in thehouse, and when they walk by the way, when theylie down, and when they rise up. Give them toobserve, with hearts sensibly affected, the naturaldepravity too apparent in every one of their off.jspring, and to be solicitous to bring them by earlydiscipline and instruction to him who alone can de¬liver from it. Make them vigilant to check thehrst sallies of their vile affections, to furnish themwith the means of knowing God and Jesus Christwhom he hath sent, and to habituate them fromheir childhood to some profitable employment of.heir time, and their understanding, as they areible to be-r it. Keep all parents from setting asad example before the eyes of their children, ando teaching them an evil lesson against themselves.And may they dread nothing more than the insup.portable doom of being condemned as accessarieslo the damnation of their own children by theirjvorldliness, sensuality, and neglect of their souls.\nd as thou knowest that no parents are of them-elves sufficient to educate their children accordingo thy will, O ! do thou fill them with wisdom andliscretion. Guide them continually with thineye, between the extremes of shewing a false indul-24gence or an irksome severity to the fruit of their :own bodies. Bless altogether the relation thoubast established between them, so that parents mayhave the joy of seeing their children growing up aspleasant plants before thee, and children have rea-son to rise up and call their parents blessed, ana topraise God for them in time and in erernity.And do thou, O God, so influence and form theminds of all children, and turn their hearts towardstheir parents, that they may behave towards themwith all reverence, obedience, and love; not stub¬born when corrected for their faults, not heedlesswhen instructed, not ungrateful to forget how muchthey are bound to administer to the comfort ottheir parents, and to requite them. ,In an especial manner we beg of thee, U (jod,that we of this family, who are now kneeling be¬fore thee, may be forgiven for Christ’s sake, all theinstances in which we have been guilty of irrever¬ence, unkindness, and passion one towards another.Make us sensible of our transgression, heartily sorry for it, and more vigilant for the fu'ure, U!give unto us, and every family, mote of thy graceand power, that v/e maybe of one mind, who dweltogether in one house on earth; that at the lasday, when we appear to take our trial at the. baof God, we may not be accusers of each other, toexercising any malevolence ot temper, but witneises of the grace of our common Lord m makmjus dwell together in perfect amity and Christialove. Grant, O God, these our petitions, and Irus all perceive the accomplishment of them by tnincrease of harmony, peace, and love amongst outselves. We ask it for the sake, and through tNintercession of our only Lord and Saviour JestChrist, Amen.FINIS.