log’rapi eOF THEilifc anly labours)f that Eminent Minister of the Gospel ofJESUS CHRIST-5THEI ev. James Haee d, id,OF THEUNITED SECESSION CHURCH,Brough ton-place Meeting-house?EDINBUR^I.PAISLEY,FRTNTEI) BY G. CALD'iVELL,1827.Of the LateUAiHu ID* ID*OF EDINBURGH.'Mggitit*Tlie memoirs of departed saints are interestinsr to *vivin^ Cliristians, as they tend to unfold the providesof God towards his people, the experimental workChristianity in their hearts, and the influence of Divirrace on-their characters and conduct, and thus addUrination to the truth of the Gospel of Christ. Thterest is increased, however, when they relate to suchvunts of the Lord, as have long held a distinguished p|in the visible church. The following is a very brief skof the history and character of one who was an endsaint, as well is an honoured, influential, and usefulnister of the Gospel, for the apace of fifty years.Dr. Hall was born at Catlieart-mill, on the 6th of,nary 17 36, which is contiguous to Glasgow, and hadoccupied by his ancestors for many generations,parents, James Hall and Isabel! Bulloch, were pelof decided piety, superior intelligence, and a goodcation. They were staunch Presbyterians, and zealadhered to that secession from the Church of Seewhich, about twenty years before, had originatedr3otnp great and raitliful men, in ron‘eq*ence of tLe errorsi doctrine, remissness in discipline, and infringement,y patronage, of tlie liberty and rights of the Christianeople, which were then, and are still tolerated by thei *neral assembly of the Scotch Established Church. Histhen feued a site for the first secession church in Glas-1 >w, and bis mother, whose paternal property lay in theiirinity of Kirkintilloch, presented to the Seceders attat place, the ground on which their church is erected,j 1 it appears worthy of notice, that no fewer than tfirewurches were built for Dr. Hall, during the course ofministry; one at Cumnock, and two in Edinburgh.» had three sisters and two brothers, four of whomire older than himself. When he was about fire yearsige, his father was removed to the better country, andi training of his mind devolved upon his mother,*Me instructions, prayers, and example, appear to haven eminently blessed to him, as well as to the rest offamily; for from bis youth, be was well acquaintedi the Scriptures, and exhibited a walk and couversa-beeoming a disciple of Christ.it an early age he gave indications of a sprightly in-ct, and distinguished himself at school as a very aptlar. During his attending the grammar school ofgow, he one year gained the second prize, and inof tlm three others, the first prize, in that eminentical seminary. On leaving it, he entered the Uni-jty of glasgow, where he studied for five sessions, andi*1- 1 through a complete course of literary and philoso-g' d education, characterized by uncommon assiduity,'Ll* good woman lived to see a'l her children respectablyitiii life* The eldest son, his father’s successor in the nullrm ; James and his younger brother, (now the Rev. Rob-ill, of Kelso,) ordained ministers In the Secession. Church;1 her three daughters, the wives of faithful and eminentJitien, iu the same connexion.4dihtinguislied abilitips*, ard tLe higltest «ucees?. Ilis ge¬nius was bright and well regulated, and the versatility o!Ids talents was so strikingly conspicuous tl at lie appearcd equally for attaining eminence in any profession ; luitthe piety of his mind determined him t» prosecute tlicstudy of Divinity. At this period, a gentleman of greatinfluence, to whom his merit was well known, and " headmired his character and talents, gave him aesuraiipof an excellent living, if ho would pursue hi* theologicastudies in connexion with the Estaldislied Church ; I'Mimmoveahly attached to the principles he had imbibntrom his parents, and adopted from mature judgment, 8he politely and unhesitatingly declined the offer, apphetc the Associate Presbytery of Glasgow for admissiointo the list of its theological students, immediately olt.iiued its approbation, and entered on a course of thenIruical studies, under the Rev. John Brown, of Haddnqten, then Professor of Divinity to the Associate Synoe.After attending the prelections cf that eminent Divinjiaiu1 bom urahlv undergoing the usual course of prolumtj,•u v trials, he was licenced to preach the everlasting Go ,pel early in the year 1776, when he had just completethe twentieth year of his age.Before he had been many months a probationer, I ,received a unanimous call to become the minister of;rew congregation at Cumnock, in Ayrshire and was d idained there in the following April, being then onlv S:veius of ace. In the spring of 1760, he married M IMaxwell, of Bogton, with whom he had been mtima -1 m his childhood, and in whom he enjoyed an idhsctio iute and valuable partner till the end of his life. 1 lxi a several children, who all died before reaching t'vears of maturity, except one daughter, who sti.l siwith her widowed mother, to lament the imp*able loss of a beloved and affectionate father. Ab< Iyhe same time, he was called to be the pastor of We,•wwr5trept congregration, in London; lint tlie Associate Syi!f<J,igreealdy to Ids desire, continued him in Cumnock. Af-er ialiouring there, however, with fidelity and success,hr the space of nine years, he was translated to Eriin->uixh in the month of .Time, 178C, where he employedds splemled talents for the ]< ng jieriodof forty years andonr inontlis, witli increasing cekhritv. He received a•aJ], indeed, some years after to become the minister <>ti coiigrogation in Manchester; l)ut the Associate Syno<lo which he was sul>ject, considering tliat his sphere ofisefulness was equally extensive in Edinburgh, wouldlot consent to his removal from it. As an evedeuce ofds unaspiring disposition, notwithstanding his unrivallediopularity, it may be mentioned to his honour that thoughhe venerable Professor Peattie, in the College of Aber¬deen. voluntarily undertook to procure for him the de-ree of Doctor in Divinity from that University, he rno-rstly declined its acceptance, because none of his Ire-hren in the Secession Church Md, at that period, lieenlignified with the same honorary title. It is oidy abouthirtcen years since the College at Pbiladelphie unani¬mously conferred the degree upon him, and previous u>hat time, a similar honour had been awarded to sonic)f his brethren by different Universities.He was allowed to possess, in an eminent measure,he peculiar requisites of a Christian orator. His ap¬pearance, especially while young, was uncommonly in¬teresting. His peison was tall, handsome, and dDnitiedHis voice, though not sonorous, was clear, extensive, XInellitlueHt—modulated with natural taste and impre st velariety. His eye beamed with devotional ardonr, andlis couatinance glowed with benignant emotions. Hisicrion was animated, graceful, and appropriate^ and hisvhole demeancur dignified ; with such an air of unaffect-id sanctity, that the writer, on beholding his earliest c\-libitions in the pulpit, was forcibly impressed with the.ethat “ he moved with the easy prace of an angeMcharged wit}) the gracious l)eliests of the Most High.” 'IThe style of his composition was lively, elegant, am- .perspicuous, frequently copious, but always replete wit! iinstructice sentiments. His subjects were selected witljijudgment—uniformly adapted to the circumstances o,his auditory, the peculiar aspects of Providence, and thJ*particular occasions on which they were elucidated. Hi:*divisions and subdivisions, though sometimes consideranhly numerous, were well calculated to illustrate his text*,assist the memory of his hearers, and furnish them with' topics of improving meditation In all his discourses htlwas eloquent and interesting; hut he consolatory truth)of religion, the peaceful sound of salvation, the good tidhings of great joy, which were brought hy the angel ot th«ji,Lord to the highly-favoured shepherds of BethlehemLwere the themes on which he dilated with paramoun tpleasure. He was well qualified, indeed, for rousing tinecareless, alarming the impenitent, and itr polling the gui! ILty to flee from the wrath to come; but while exhibitindj.th# love of God, the unsearchable riches of Christ, anutthe astonishing wonders of redemption to poor, miserablyivrath-deserving sinaers, he never failed to shine with m.surpassing lustre.An extensive combination «f attractive qualities en ntered in to the composition of his public character, whiclir endered his ministrations equally acceptable to persoiuLof erudition and taste, and to ingenious minds that wermtotal strangers to polite literatur e. He was blessed witha facinating ease, energy, and ernestness of manner, agraceful facility of utterance, a compass of language whichnever allowed him to hesitate, or to return for a better!■word or a happier phrase—an amplitude of ideas whicnall occasions rendered him rich and copious-a strengthof imagination which supplied him with striking and instructive figures—a comprehensive knowledge of Chris-jian theology, which qualified him for bringing from thetreasury of eternal truth, matter admirably adapted to e-»/ei y exigence; such a complete understanding of humannature and experimental religion, as made him adminis¬ter to each individual a suitable portion of satisfactoiyood in the most appropriate season, an admirable apti-;ude to strengthen weak hands and confirm fteble knee s,;o soothe the anguish of excessive grief, and comfort thediversified mourners in Zion—to establish the doubting)r unconfirmed believer on the sure foundation which theLord hath laid, restore back-sliders to the good coursethey had unhappily abandoned, allure diffident discipleso determined perseverance, excite slothful performers ofiuty to diligence and activity, and provoke all whom hetamediately addressed, to the exercise of love, and the>ractice of good works, to run in the righteous ways of.iod with accelerated steps,—adorn the doctrine of God;heir Saviour iu all tilings, live soberly, righteously, andmd godly in the world, and look for the blessed hope,he glorious appearance of the great God, even their Sa-riourthe Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for them,hat he might redeem them from all iniquity, and purifyhem to himself, as a peculiar people, zealous of goodvorks. In short, though he sometimes found it neces¬sary to assume the character of a Boanerges, he appear¬ed to take much more pleasure in exhibiting himself as aton of consolation. When he ascended the pulpit, itnight, with much propriety, he said concerning him :“ There stands the messenger of truth; there standsThe legate of the skies! his theme divine,His office sacred, his credentials clear.By him the violated law speaks outIts thunder; and by him, in siraints as sweetAt ange's use, the Gospel whispers peace.He stablishes the strong, restores the weak.Reclaims the vanderer, binds the broken heart.8And arm’d himself in panoply c<imple(e,Of heavenly tetnpcr, furnishes wirh arms,t I5ei ght as his own, aad trains to glorious warJ5v ev’ry ru e of holv discipline.The sacsamental host of God's elect.”Cowrar.lie was also vat-y attentive t» tlie private dtities of Msoffice, while he continued able to perform them. In;visitin'? the sick, his presence, his prayers, and his con¬verse, were peculiary acceptal^e and consolatory, not on¬ly amorvo^ his own people, hut also amanj; strangers of-different denominations. And no person could he bet¬ter qualified for the ministerial visitation of his dock, forlie was capable of sympathizing with distressed Individ- 1uals in all situations, adapting his conversation to every!variety of circurnstunce, and comunicating suitable ins!struction in every particular condition. But, about tesi1years V yo, he was afflicted with an inflamation of his li-irer, kc , by which his life was thought to he in imminsent danger; and though he gradually regained a consi- •derahle share of health, he was ever afterwards suhieefto inward complaints, that rendered him unable to endure !any great degree of fatigue: subsequently, he frequentlyappointed diets of visitation, and attempted to accom¬plish that interesting exercise; yet tie seeds of doseas*were so deeply rooted in his constitution, tiat lie fount!himself incapable of persevering, and was reluctantly <$■bilged to desist. The unavoidable intermission of a duti!so important was ascribed to false or conjectural causes1 y the inconsiderate, the less sympathizing part of hiipHOpie, such as were seldom subjected to affliction them:!eeives, and too apt to judge unfavourably of others, with ,out being furnished with proper grounds; and they were >wifortun<U 1 v,'instrumental in spreading discontent, aminducing otjieis, along with themselves, to eruhrace thopportunity which presented itsolf, of deserting his miwfchd-eoiitintiing.in Bose street,-when he fetnove9wiih the attaclied members of’-is ror>erppition to Brenah-toa-place. Tire fact is, while free from excessive pain,he was indisposed to make the nature of his sufferingsknown ; in 1 is coverratien, he manifested so much cheer*fulness and vivacity, and in his puijiit exhibited swli live¬liness and vig-onr, that tiiose acquainted with Inin mustl ave concluded that he enjoyed a measure of l eahh e-qual to the energy of his animal spirits. I^ut he mustalways have lieen sensible of his own situation, and hisphysicians (wlio, during his illness, did everything with¬in the reach eff medical skill and assiduity,) expressedtheir surprise, after having completely learned the oau-esi f his malady, that he had been able to underco half thefa tit; tie to vvhieh he had subjected himself. Men, alaslook only on theCutward appearance, hutthe Lord know-eih the r al condition of his creatures. In perfect andinsaeacious moitals, tliereforo, should beware of rash eefi-stne or arrogant presumption, and pay particular atten¬tion to that in-pired admonition—“Judge not, tlwt ye.he not judged ; for with what measure ye mete, it shallbe measured to you again.”As a member of ecclesiastical courts, Ids judgmentwas move than usually respected. He assumed no dic¬tatorial airs, no supeiiority of discernment, no dispositionto become the leader of a party ; but his thorough ac¬quaintance with the forms of business, his just under¬standing cf the causes that caino under discussion^ hisc.'ear comprehension of the reasoning employed by pnr-t a- cot cerm d, and the ter.doticy of anruu eios advancedby members of court; the deep interest he took in theconcert s of the church, his impartiality in th« weighingof evidence, aud hi-* unbiassed attachment to equity, jus¬tice, and the general interest of religion, enabled him todeliver Ids sentiments with a luminous precision, a per¬tinence of remark, and a fluency cf uMpremeditated ex¬pression, which were well calculated to produce cenvic-10tk>n, and carry the cause he undertook to advocate. Itis true, he wrk not uniformly successful, hut in such cases,the courts had sometimes cause to regret that they hadnot been governed hy his views.Kis conversational powers’were of a superior descrip¬tion. His literary accomplishments, the extent of his in¬formation, the versatility of his talents, his quick com¬prehension of all that was said, and his admirable facility»>f expressioo, qualified him for conversing on all subjects,and with all characters, with almost equal aptitude, andin a manner which seldom failed to communicate plea¬sure, entertainment, and instruction. Hence it was said,hy an eminent American Divine, with whom he had con¬tracted a particular intimacy, while he was in this coun¬try, that he could not help admiring the talent of Dr.Hall, for he appeared to he equally qualified for convers¬ing agreeably with a girl before entering her teens, aphilosopher on his most abstract theories, a statesman oninteresting topics of legislation, and a theologian on themost ahtruse points of natural and revealed religion. Butwhile he gave a peculiar zest to any convivial companieswith which he associated, he was ever ready to checkthe smallest approach to moral impropriety, and to in¬troduce subjects calculated to edify as well as entertain.His dignified demeanour and numerous accomplishments,recommended him to tlie notice and friendship of personsmoving in the higher circles of society: and though heneither courted, nor appeared ostentatious of such a dis¬tinction, it gave him an opportunity of more extensiveusefulness than he might otherwise have enjoyed ; for hewas generally employed to prepare and transmit address¬es from the ecclesiastical courts with which he was con¬nected, to the Secretary of State, or some other influen¬tial member of the British Parliament. And, on manyoccasions, his exertions were essentially serviceable tothe Secession Church, in getting its civil concerns settled11ob a firm foundation, securing religious privileges, ofwhich it was in danger of being denuded, and procuringannual allowances from government for such of its clergy¬men as were to be placed in any of his Majesty's for¬eign dependencies.He was a genuine philanthropist, a cordial supporterof benevolent institutions, some ot which he bad the hon¬our to originate—a zealous prompter of such schemes aspromised to ameliorate human misery, and extend thebounderies of Messiah’s kingdom. He was particularlysolicitous that pure and undefiled religion should becomemore obviously operative, and shine with increasing lus¬tre in his own congregation, the city he inhabited, andhis much loved country. Such, indeed, was the liber¬ality of his sentiments, that if the end to which he as¬pired was whtained, the means or denominations of Chris-tiuiis employed in producing it, he considered as a mat¬ter of inferior consequence. Hence it was that evan¬gelical clergymen, not only from England and Ireland,hut from any other part of the world, when employedoh embassies of beneficence, found a ready admission tohis house, his purse, and his pulpit.His temper was mild, open, ingenuous, and affection¬ate. He was ever ready to befriend the unfortunate—to favour them with sympathy, advice, and personal ser¬vices—and to employ bis influence in endeavouring toplace the unprovided in circumstances of comfort, e igi-bility, or independence. To his relatives and friends,he manifested the most faithul, fraternal, and disinterest¬ed attachment; and towards all mankind he breathed ibegenuine spirit of Christian benevolence. It must be ac¬knowledge, that he felt the edge of injurious treatmentwith the keenest sensibility, aad expressed his sentimentsconcerning it with unreserved openness; but I am notaware that he ever was subject to sudden or excessiveebullitions of passion, that la any instance he entertain-<'P a rancorous or rerfraeful spirit, or tiiat at any timelo* suffrred the stu! to go down on his wr ath. On thecontrary, I know that few were wore ready to forgiietheir offenders, to act towards them in a kind and con-cilirory manner, to overlook or obliterate the injury, tomake oonsideirable sacrifices for the sake of peace, andtender es-ential services even to adversaries when pro¬videntially put in their power. In such situations hewas sometimes called to perform an irksome office; tutwhen lie had satisfied himself that it was a necessary ,duty, he proceeded with promptitude to ci'o hargo it, Jwithout either listening to the dissuasions of his dearest <friends or selfishly consulting with fiesh and Idood.It is by no means intended to represent Dr. Hall as ia perfect or impeccable character; tut while subject tothe common mtinnities of his species, it may with morethan ordinary propriety he said concerning him, “ th: teven his failings leaned to virtue’s side.’’ He was some¬times deceived, by thinking mote favourably of certainc haracters than they deserved; and was more apt to en¬tertain a good than a had repoit, even of those of w homlie had no r than a distant knowledge—to palliaterather than uggrava'fe the charges exhibited against cul¬prits, and to plead for the infliction ot lenient rather thaasevere punishments, even on the guilty. He also listen¬ed too readily to plausible propositions, and was not suf-ficer.tly aware of their probable result, especially whenthev ]proceeded from unsuspected fiends ; hence he wasled'in to secular en<mgemcnts, which he did not imaginewould interfere with the immediate duties of Lis sacsedfunction, but which might, in the event of anticipatedsuccess, have given him an opportunity of extended use¬fulness. Instead of which, however, they involved himin pecuniary embarrassment, proved a source of severetrial, and exposed him to the rash censure of such as didnot take the trouble to investigate his case. But his" ' -v.'r-ii T-.fi'—13crxTeet statement of prominent facts, his ingenious ex¬posure of tlie steps which immersed him in such a situ¬ation, and his willingness to make every sacrifice calcu¬lated to repair any injury which his falure lind occasion¬ed, proved perfectly satisfactory to all concerned, andenabled him to retain his respectability unimpaired, notonly among his own people, and his brethren in the chtm hhut also among impartial public characters of every de¬scription. Indeed, it is now understood, that proposals,both of a civil and sacred nature, were made to him,which, had he been inclined to accede to them, wouldhave placed him in circumstances far more eligible thanhe had previously enjoyed ; but his piety, principles, andideas of consistency, were too strong for allowing anyworldly considerations to influence his condiict.He continued to discharge his public duties pretty re¬gularly, and with great acceptability, till about a yearand three quarters before bis death, when he was againseriously seized by his former complaint, which confinedhim nearly three months; after which he occasioaallvre¬appeared in the pulpit, and was heard by his people withstrong sensations of joy. Indeed, his discourses then asas well as during the whole preceding coure of his min¬istry, were so salutary and seasonable, so replete withthe richest marrow of the Gospel, and so strikingly a-dapted to the conditiotvof his auditory, that scarcely anysubstitute that appeared in his room was nearly so ac¬ceptable ; for, notwithstanding the duration and nature ofhis malady, there was nothing in his public appearancesthat seemed to indicate either the existence of disease,cr the imbecility of age—no whine, drawl, inaudibility,or want of attention to the usual requisites, by which hehad been accustomed to produce a pleasing and prefit •abie effect. His last sermon was preached fretn Mat¬thew xxii. 11, 12—“And when the king came in to seethe guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wed-14din? arsrmpnt, ami lie saitli unto him, Friend, liow earn¬est thou in hither, not having on a wedding garmentand he was speechless.” He showed that the marriagefeast represents all the blessings which were purchasedhy the death of Cl rist, adapted his discourse to the cir-c im tances of his congregation, in which the Lord's Sup-I>er was to he dispensed on the succeeding Sabbath, andpourtftyed, in impressive colours, the sad condition ofthose who come to the sacramental table without thewedding garment. He intended to preach tti the com¬munion Sabbath, from Isaiah x. 21—“The remnant shallreturn, even th» remnant of Jacob to to the mightyGod l” but on the morning of that day, lie found him e'fso ill, that he was obliged to request an assisting clergy¬man to occupy his place, and in 'oss than ten days after¬wards, lie retired from the exercises of the sanctuary be¬low, to join in those that unceasingly engage the generalassembly and church of the first bom, in the temple above.He died a few minutes before eight, on the morning ofNovember 28, in the seventy-first year of his age, andfiftieth of bis ministry. He suffered much during thecontinuance of his trouble; but he bore his apparentlyexcessive pain with an exemplary fortitude, unmurmur-in? resignation, and a patience which appeared to haveproduced its perfect wsrk. He departed in the firmfaith of those important truths he had been accustomedto preach, in a full dependance on the faithfulness of that(iod who cannot lie, and in the complete possession ofthat consolation which peculiarly belongs to the heirs ofpromise, who, like him, have fled f >r refuge to lay holdon the hope that is set before them. His death wasdeeply rsgretted, as a sad obscurat'on of that burningand sinning light, in which many for a season had ex-ceediwiv rejoiced. The interest it excited was cbviousat his funeral and especially at the appropriate sermonpreached in his church on the subsequent Sabbath, by■MHmKP" 1 f15tlie Ri*r. John Brown, (who liaci succeeded him in Rose-street.) when at least twe-thirds o<' ilie vast multi tildethat appeared solicitous to hear it, were incapable of gain¬ing; admission into the house; but which being aow pub¬lished, must amply gratify the serious reader, by the exceilenee of its matter, the able delineation it contains ofthe doctors character, and such interesting specimens ofhis death-bed exercises as are exhibited in the followingextracts:—“ On Tuesday morning, eight days before he died, hesummoned his family to his b'id-side, and prayed. Themembers of his family, with his brother and sister, hecommitted by name to the protection of God ; but theburden of his supplication was the session and congrega¬tion of Broughton-place, for whom he prayed, that theymight individually be blessed, and that the Holy Ghostmight be poured out upon them, and that God would,in due time, give them a pastor, taught by his spirit, whoshould preach the Gospel iu purity «.n 1 be well acquaintedwith his Bible."On Wednesday evening, when informed of the soli¬citude and dejection of some friends on account of hisaffliction, and of his elders’ meetings for prayer on hisbehalf, he remarked, ‘ Aye—1 live in the hearts of mvfriends and my people, and they lire in mine.’“ Early on Thursday morning, while stretched hackin his sick-chair, and labouring under severe pain, hemade the following remarks at intervals: ‘I find that thesame spiritual processes, the same processes of spiritualreasoning, and the same hopes which go on and animateus in health, when we are well, go on when we are ill •and encourage, support, aod delight us more abundantlyin the hour of sickness, and in the prospect of death.’During the uttering of this sentence, he was more thanonce interrupted by excessive difficulty of breathing. Af¬ter a little interval, with his eyes bent upwards, be pro.16rredril—‘ Tl-ou lisist redeemed ns ! Tbou liast redeeme^ os to God by thy blood !—that is the song of diegreat company who surround the throue. Thou hast re¬deemed us !—that is the song of the saints on earth.Thou hast redeemed us;—that is the song and joy of myheart.’ In the same posture, after another short interval,lie said. ‘ I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that heshall stand at the latter day upon the earth; and thoughaf*er my skin worms destroy this body, yet in nav fleshshall I see God.’ ‘ I know in whom I have believed,and that what I have committed to him lie will preserveagainst that day.’ ‘ The Lord is my light, and my sal¬vation, whom shall'I fear? The Lord, liveth, and bless¬ed be my Rock, and let the God of my salvation he ex¬alted.’ ‘ I have finished my course, I have kept the faith ;henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteous¬ness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, shall give meat that day- ‘ Lord Jesus receive my spirit!’“ On another occasion, he said, ‘ The cords that hindme to this world are numerous rnd very tender, hut theymust all he cut, and that very soon.’ And, putting hishand to Ids chest, ‘ That is a true saying of David’s—my heart faiteth. Yes, my flesh and my heart faileth.but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion forever.’ One of his last injunctions was, ‘ Give my loveto iny congregation—to every one of them.iet its unite with the pious author of the FuneralSermon— “ that surely, afier hearing these things, wedo not feel as we ought to do, if, amid all our regrets,we are not disposed to say, ‘ Thanks be to Gcd whohath given him the victory.’ ’FINIS.