FOURIP <D IPIL ii HiSONGS,lor.JliS'id -I5IJ Juftviz. i— fl itI as fpvol ovad wo*i OALICE GRAY, v.o . v In Mr.nr.;■. J ■. ...My JMitlier men’t my auld breeks.WILL THE WEAVER,V , ....0 WAT YE WIIA'S IN YON- TOWN., r, : * ...... j i :. ■ 0 : i; ‘v Y,0fI ^risiQaOd . irrj'fr *:;iT*STIRLING:PRINTED BV E, JOHNSTONE, BOOKSELLEK.Slices all my fancy painted ]herKf ‘ |Slie^s lovely she‘s divine,'But her heart it is another's.It never can be mine ;O few have lov'd as I have lov'd.My love can not decay,O my heart, my heart is breaking,For the love of Alice Gray.Her dark brew hair is braided.O'er a bro^ of spotless white.The softness of her beaming eye,Must all the world delight ;iu‘r is. braided n^t,% me,The eye is turned away.Yet my heart, my heart, is breaking.For the love of Alice Grav.I've sunk beneath a. summer's sun,And shivered in the blast;Bpt now my pilgrimage is done,The weary conflict‘d past !When laid within the silenugrave,Slay pity haply say,O his heart, his heart, was broken.For the love of Alice Gray,3¥HiMtf Mither merit my cudd bre<Ls:Mv mither men’t my auld breck.®,An wow out they wore dutidy,An sent me to get shod tlie mare-.At ilobin Tamson’s smiddy ;Tiie smiddy stands beside the burn,That wimples through the clachanI never yet gae by. the door,But aye I fa’ a laughin’.Tor Robin was a wealthy Carle,An’ bad ae bonny dochter,But ne’er would let her tak a man,Tho mony lads had sought her ;But what think yid o‘ my exploit !—-The time our mart was shoeing,I slipped up beside the tass,And briskly fella wooing.An- aye she e’ed my auld bteeks.The time that we sat crackin ;Quo I my lass, ne'er mind the clouts.I’ve new anes for the makin’.But gin you’ll just come haute w‘? me.An’ lea’ the carle your fatherTe'se get the claes to keep in trim,Mysel’ an’ a thegither.T) e Had, quo she, your offer's fair,I ready think I‘U tak‘ it,5For my wife she does declare,That the breeches she will wear.Is she bold-*or is she quiet ?Is she costly in her diet ?Loving son give her her due,Let me hear no more from you,. w t . ,doing one night to my treasure,Their I met an honest neighbour.Says, kind sir, 1 11 tell you whoI saw with your wife iust now.\ saw lier and Will the weaver,They were unco close the-gither,At the threshold of the door,They went in I saw no more.Thank you kindly honest neighbouiI’ll reward you for your labour :If I catch him at my corn,Better had lie ne’er been born.He went home in a great wonder,Knocking at the door like thunder,Who is that? Will the weaver criesTis my husband, you must riseSae gang awa1 get out the mare,We’li bail!) alip oh the back o t ;For gin I wait my fathers time,I’ll wait till I be fifty—But np, I’ll marry when I am youngAn’ mak’ a wife fu’ thrifty.Wow ? Robin was an angry man,At losing o’ his doehter ;Thro a’ tire kiutra side he ran,An’ far an’ near he sought her;But when he cam’ to our fire-end,An’ fand us baith thegither,Quo I gudeman, I veta‘en your bairnAn’ ye may tak’ my ririther.Auld Robin girn’d an'1 sheuk his pow,Gnid faith ? quo he you re merry ;But I'll just tak’ you at your word.An’end this ntirry burry;So Robin an’ our auld guidwrfeAgreed to creep thegither ;Now I hae Robin Tamsou’s pet,And Robin has my mither.Will the JVeaver.Mother dear now Fm marriedI wish I had longer tarried6Where have you been at your pleasure.Snendinu' all your time and tresure.He searched the whole house round.Not a soul was to be found,i )n the door lie stood amazed,bp the chimney then he gazedThera he saw the dripping soul.Sitting on the chimney pole.[ la, ha ! my lad, since 1 hae found ye,.1 will neither hang nor drown ye,But Fll stiftie you with smoke,This he thought hut nothing spoke.He put on a rousing tiroI'or to please his own desTi;e,i Sis wife caied out with free goodwillHusband dear a man you'll kill.From the chimney then he took him,Then so miraily as he shook liiui,At every blow these words lie spoke,Come no more to stop my smoke.Never was a chimneysweeper,Half so bldck as Will the WeavV:,1. -.v/eci e'isvoi s at! hrtiow 9*to vMHands and faee and nose likewise, •Sent him home v.'ith two black evesv i—; u/;> f iif: "ril -ij'J'. 'lii 1O tv at ye. wlta's in yon Town.toqij oiioi!'. -ioo sv'A > ?iH0 wat ye wha’s in yon town, ‘Ye see the e'fihing’sun upon:The fairest maichs in yon town.The eening sun is shining onNow haply down by yon green shaw,she wanders by yon spreading tree,How blest ye fl o’.vcrs that round her blaw 1Ye catch the glances o‘ her e‘eHow blest ye birds that round her sing,And welcome in the blooming year ;And doubly welcome be the spring,The season to my Jeanie dear.The sun blinks blithe on yon town,Among the broomy braes sae green1 But my delight in yon town.And dearest pleasure is my Jean.W ithout my love, not all the charms,Of paradise could give me joy ;But gie my Jeanie in mv arms,And welcome Lapland's dreary sky.8My'cave would be a lover's bower,Tbo’ raging winter rent the air,And she a lovely little flower,That I would tent and shelter there.O sweet is she in yon town.The setting sun’s gaun down upon ;The dearest maid’s in yon town,His setting beam e’er shone upon,If angry fate be sworn my foe,And suffering I am doomed to bear,I’ll careless quit aught else below ;But spare, Oh ! spare my Jeanie dear.For while life’s dearest blood is warm,Mv thoughts frae her shall ne’er depart ; -For as most lovely is her form, t'‘ "She has the truest kindest heart.tod t&d; inid : / tsjddi otaoafow on AilNIS. LnAu: rr-ii. ym c-t tTO;nv/oi ("o/ aoorftilo^nc :A1; vcr otj'o uUHO.if yra JuorUrO'.iOBitq "iOIntA