OF SCOTIAGLASGOW jSINS AND SORROWSSPREADBEFORE GOD:A SERMON,BY THE REV. ISAAC WATTS.m■r< v:J ,th )Ak '-Air~HET ff<W *i iv -.sm> ■ i i ]SINS AND SORROWSSPREAD BEFORE GOD.Job xxiii. 3, 4.Oh that I knew where I might find him! that Imight come even to his seat! I would ordermy cause before him, and fill my mouth witharguments.There is such a thing as converse with God inprayer, and it is the life and pleasure of a pioussoul; without it we are no Christians; and hethat practises it most, is the best follower ofChrist, for our Lord spent much time in conversewith his heavenly Father. This is the balmthat eases the most raging pains of the mind,when the wounded conscience comes to the mer¬cy-seat, and finds pardon and peace there. Thisis the cordial that revives and exalts our natures,when the spirit, broken with sorrows and almostfainting with death, draws near to the almightyPhysician, and is healed and refreshed. Themercy-seat in heaven is our surest and sweetestrefuge in ever hour of distress and darkness onearth; this is our daily support and relief, while4we are passing through a world of temptationsand hardships in the way to the promised land.“ It is good for us to draw near to God.” Psal.Ixxiii. 28.And yet so much is human nature sunk downand fallen from God, that even his own childrenare ready to indulge a neglect of converse withhim, if their souls are not always upon the watch.But let it be remembered here, that so much aswe abate of this divine entertainment among thevanities or amusements of the world, the business¬es or burdens of life; so much we lose of theglory and joy of religion, and deprive our soulsof the comfort that God invites us to receive.Job was encompassed with sorrows all around,and his friends had censured him as a vile hypo¬crite, and a great sinner, because he was so ter¬ribly afflicted by the hand of God: whithershould he run now but to his heavenly Father,and tell him of all his sufferings ?From the practice of this holy man, I thoughtwe might have sufficient warrant to draw this in¬ference, viz. that when a saint gets near to Godin prayer, he tells him all his circumstances, andpleads for help. And this is the doctrine whichI am endeavouring now to improve. O if I couldbut come near him; I would spread all my con¬cerns before his eye, and I would plead with himfor relief; I would fill my mouth with arguments.5Four things I proposed in the prosecution ofthis doctrine.I. To consider what it is for a soul to getnear to God in prayer.II. What particular subjects doth a soul, thusbrought near to the mercy-seat, converse withGod about.III. Why he causes to tell all his circumstan¬ces and his sorrows to God, when he is thus near 'him. , . ■ ,IV. How he pleads for relief.I. We have already considered, what it is fora soul to get near to the seat of God, and whatare the usual attendants of such a privilege. Atsuch a season the holy soul will have an awfuland adoring sense of the majesty of God, a be¬coming fear of his terrors, and some sweeter tasteof his love. There will be a divine hatred ofevery sin, and a sensible virtue and influence pro¬ceeding from a present God, to resist every temp¬tation ; there will be a spiritual and heavenlytemper diffusing itself through the whole soul,and ail the powers of it; a fixedness of heartwithout wandering; and a liveliness without tir¬ing ; no weariness is felt in the spirit at such aseason, even though the flesh may be ready tofaint under the overpowering sweetness; then thesoul with freedom opens itself before the eye ofGod, and melts and flow in divine language.6whether it complain or rejoice. But I have fin¬ished this head, and repeat no more.II. What are some of the particular circum¬stances or subjects of complaint, that a saintbrings to God when he comes near to him.In general, a saint, when he is near to God,has all the fulness of his heart breaking out intoholy language; he pours out his whole self beforehis God and his Father; all the infinite affairsthat relate to the flesh and spirit, to this life andthat which is to come; all things in heaven, andall things on earth, created or uncreated, may, atone time or other, be the subjects of conversebetween God and a holy soul. When the ques¬tion is asked by a carnal man, “ What can a Chris¬tian talk with God so long and so often about ?”The Christian, in a divine frame, answers, “ Hethat hath matter enough for converse with God,to wear out time, and to fill up eternity.’* Itmay as well be asked on the other side, Whathas he not to say ? What is there that relatesto God, or to himself, to the upper, or the lowerworld, that he may not at some time say to hisGod ?But I must confine myself from wandering inso large a field, that I may comport with the de¬sign of my text. Though a good man, in devoutprayer often spreads his hopes and his joys beforethe Lord as well as his sorrows, fear, and dis-tresses; yet I shall at present endeavour to setforth only the mournful and complaining repre-| sentations of his circumstances that he makes be¬fore the throne of God.1. If I could but come near the mercy-seat,I would confess how great my sins are, and Iwould pray for pardoning grace. I would say,' “ How vile I am by nature I would count myoriginal descent from Adam the great transgres¬sor, and humble myself at the foot of a holyi God, because I am the descent of such a sinner.. I would tell him how much viler I have mademyself by practice : “ I have been an enemy in1 my mind by nature, and guilty of many wickedworks, whereby I have farther estranged myselffrom him.” I would tell my God how multipliedmy transgressions have been before 1 knew him,and how aggravated they have been since 1 havebeen acquainted with him. I would acquainthim with the frequency of my returning guilt,how I have sinned against mercies, against re¬proofs, against warnings received often from hisword, and often from his providence.I may appeal to the souls of many present,whether they have not had the greatest freedomof mfession of their sins when they have beennea >t to God, even though he be a God ofholiness. At other times they have not onlybeen averse to confess to any friend, but even8unwilling to talk over to themselves the aggrava¬tion of their iniquities, or to mention them inprayer; but when they are brought thus near thethrone of God, they unbosom themselves beforehim, they pour out their sins and their tears to¬gether, with a sweet and mournful satisfaction.“ I behold (says the saint) the great atone¬ment, the blood of Jesus, and therefore I mayventure to confess my great iniquities, for thesatisfaction is equal to them all. When I beholdGod upon his seat, I behold the Lamb in themidst of the throne as it had been slain, and heis my Peace-maker. I see his all-sufficient sac¬rifice, his atoning blood, his perfect, his justifyingrighteousness.” The soul then answers the callof God with great readiness, when God says inIsaiah i. 18. “ Come let us reason together;though your sins have been as scarlet, they shallbe as wool.” “ I am ready (says the soul) toenter into such reasonings; I am ready to confessbefore thee, that my sins are all crimson andscarlet, but there is cleansing blood with thySon. Blood that has washed the garments of athousand sinners, and made them as white assnow; and it has the same virtue still to washmine too; I trust in it, and rejoice when I beholdthat blood sprinkled upon the mercy-seat, andtherefore I grow confident in hope, and draw yetnearer to God, a x’econciled God, since his thronehas the memorials of a bleeding sacrifice upon! it.”2. If I could get nearer the seat of God 1would tell him how many my enemies are, andhow strong; how malicious, and how full of rage.And I would beg strength against them, and vic¬tory over them. I would say as David, “ Many! there be that hate me, many there be that riseup against me, and many there be that say of mysoul, There is no help for him in God; but thou,; O God, art my glory, my shield, and the lifter; up of my head,” Psal. iii. Then, says the soul,! I would complain to God of all my indwellingcorruptions, of the body of death that dwells inme, or in which I dwell; and say ; “ O wretchedman that I am, tfho shall deliver me I” I wouldtell him then of the secret working of pride in myheart, though I long to be humble; of the risingof ambition in my soul, though I would willing¬ly maintain a middle state amongst men, and notaim and aspire to be great. I would acquainthim of the vanity of my own mind, though I amperpetually endeavouring to subdue it. I wouldtell him, with tears, of my sinful passions, of myanger and impatience, and the workings of envyand revenge in me; of the perpetual stirrings ofdisorderly appetites, whereby I am led away frommy God; I would tell him of the hardness of myheart, and the obstinacy of my temper. I would10open before his eyes all the vices of my constitu¬tion ; all those sacred seeds of iniquity that areever budding and blossoming to bring forth fruitto death. These things are fit to mourn beforethe Lord, when the soul is come near to his seat.I would complain of this sore enemy, the world,that is perpetually besetting me, that strikes uponall my senses, that by the ears, and the eyes,and all the outward faculties, draws my heartaway from God my best friend. I would tell 1him of the rage of Satan, that watchful and mal¬icious adversary; that I cannot engage iu anyduty of worship but he is ready to throw in somefoolish or vain suggestion to divert me; and Iwould look forward, and point to my last enemy,death, and beg the presence of my God with me,when 1 walk through the dark valley; “ Lord,when I enter into that conflict, assist me, that Imay fear no evil, but be made more than a con¬queror through him that has loved me.”3. I would tell him what darkness I labourunder, either in respect of faith or practice. If Iam perplexed in my mind, and entangled aboutany of the doctrines of the gospel, I would tellthem my God whqt my entanglements are, wherethe difficulty lies; and I would beg, that by hisSpirit and his word, he would solve the con¬troversy, and set his own truth before me in hisown divine light. And then in point of practice.liwhat darkness lies upon the spirit at such a time,is revealed before God: “ My way is hedged up,I know not what path to chuse; it is very hardfor me to find out duty; show me, O Lord, theway wherein I should walk, and mark out mypath plain for me.4. I would mourn, and tell him how littleconverse I have with himself, how much he ishidden from me; I would complain to him, howfar off I am from him the most part of my life,how few are tne hours of my communion withhim, how short is the visit, how much his face isconcealed from me, and how far my heart isdivided from him. A soul then says, “ Surelythere is too great a distance between me and myGod, my heavenly Father;” and cries out withbitterness, “ Why is God so far from me, andwhy is my heart so far from God? How oftendo I wait upon him in his own sanctuary, andamong his saints, but I am not favoured with a;dght of his power and glory there! And howoften do I seek him in my secret retirements, butl find him not! I would tell him how often Iread his promises in the gospel, and taste nosweetness ; I go frequently to those wells of con--olation and they seem to be dry; then I turn myface, and go away ashamed.”5. I would tell him too of my temporal trou-Hts, if I get near to God, because they unfit mefor his service, t hey make me uncapable of hon¬ouring him in the world, and render me unfit forenjoying him in his ordinances; I would tell himhow they damp my zeal, how they bow my spiritdown, and make me go mourning all the day long,to the dishonour of Christianity, which is a dis¬pensation of grace and joy. Thus I might com¬plain before God of pains, of weakness, of sick¬ness, of the disorders of my flesh ; I might com¬plain there too of the weakness of all my powers,the want of memory, the scatterings and confu¬sions that are upon my thoughts, the wanderingsof my fancy, and the unhappy influence that afeeble and diseased body has upon the mind: “ Omy God, how am I divided from thee by dwell¬ing in such a tabernacle ! Still patching up atottering cottage, and wasting my best hoursin a painful attendance on the infirmities of theflesh I”I might then take the liberty of spreading be¬fore my God all the sorrows and vexations oflife, that unhinge my soul from its centre, thatthrow it off from my guard, and hurry and ex¬pose me to daily temptations. I might com¬plain of my reproaches from friends and ene¬mies ; because these, many times, wear out thespirit and unfit it for acts of lively worship.These are my weekly sorrows and groans, theseare my daily fears and troubles; and these shallbe spread before the eyes of ray God, in thehappy hour when I get near him.Lastly, I would not go away without a wordof pity and complaint concerning my relations,my friends and acquaintance, that are afar offfrom God. I would put in one word of petitionfor them that are careless unconcerned for them¬selves ; I would weep a little at the seat of Godfor them: I would leave a tear or two at thethrone of mercy, for my dearest relatives in theflesh, for children, brothers or sisters, that theymay be brought near to God, in the bonds of theSpirit. Then would I remember my friends inChrist, my brethren and kindred in the gospel;such as labour under heavy burdens, languishunder various infirmities of life, or groan underthe power of strong temptations. When Godindulges me the favour of his ear, I would spreadtheir wants and sorrows before him, togetherwith my own, and make supplication for all thesaints. I would leave a petition at the mercy-seat for my native country, that knowledge andholiness may overspread the nation ; that our kingmay be a nursing-father to the church, and ourprinces may be blessings to the land. And whileI send up my request for the British Islands, Iwould breathe out many a sigh for Zion, that shemay be the joy of the whole earth,—I proceednow to.14III. The third head of inquiry, which is this:Why does a saint, when he gets near to God de¬light to tell hin^ill his circumstances, and all hissorrows ?In general I might say this, because it is soseldom, at least in our day, that a saint gets verynear to God; therefore when he finds that happy-minute, he says to his God all he wants to say;he tells him all his heart; he pours out all hiswants before him; because these seasons are veryfew. It is but here and there an extraordinaryChristian, who maintains constant nearness toGod; the best complain of too much distanceand estrangement. But to descend to particu¬lars.1. He is our chief friend, and it is an ease tothe soul to vent itself in the bosom of a friend,when we are in his company. More especiallyas it was in the case of Job, when other friendsfailed him when he began to tell them some ofhis sorrows, and withal maintained his own in¬tegrity ; they would not believe him, but becamehis troublers instead of his comforters; k‘ Myfriends, scorn me,” saith Job, ch. xvi. 20, butmine eye pours out tears to God. I go to mybest friend, my friend in heaven, when my friendshere on earth neglect me.Man is a sociable creature, and our joys andour sorrows are made to be communicated, that15hereby we may double the one and alleviate theother. There is scarce any piece of human nature,be it ever so stupid, but feels some satisfactionin the pleasure of a friend, in communicating thetroubles and the pleasures that it feels; but thosethat have God for their highest and best friend,i they love to be often exercising such acts offriendship with him, and rather with him thanwith any friend besides, rather with him than allI besides him. This is the noblest and highestfriendship; all condescension and compassion onthe one side, and all infirmity and dependance onthe other! and yet both joined is mutual satis¬faction. Amazing grace of God to man ! TheChristian rejoices in this admirable divine indul¬gence, and delights in all opportunities to employand improve it.Besides, this is the way to maintain the vigourof piety, and keep all the springs of divine loveever open and flowing in his own heart; thereforehe makes many a visit to the mercy-seat, andtakes occasion from every troublesome occurencein life, to betake himself to his knees, and im¬proves every sorrow he meets on earth, to in¬crease his acquaintance with heaven. He de¬lights to talk all his grievances over with hisGod. Hannah, the mother of Samuel, is ablessed example of this practice, 1 Sam. i. 10.When she was in bitterness of soul, by reason of16a sore affliction, and the teazing humour of heirival, she prayed to the Lord, and wept sore;and when she had left her sorrows at the mercy-seat, she went away, and did eat, and her coun¬tenance was no more sad, ver. 18. So saith theChristian, “ I commit my sorrows to my God,he is my best friend, and I go away, and am nomore sad; I have poured out my cares into hisear, and cast my burdens upon him, and I leavethem there in peace ”2. The saint knows God will understand himright, and will judge right concerning his caseand his meaning. Though the expression (itmay be) are very imperfect, below the commonlanguage of men, and propriety of speech, yetGod knows the meaning of the soul, and lieknows the mind of his Spirit, Rom. viii. Thefriends of Job perverted his sense; therefore heturns aside to God, for he knows God would un¬derstand him. It is a very great advantage,when we spread our concerns before another per¬son, to be well assured that person will take usright, will take in our meaning fully, and judgearight concerning our cause. Now we may beassured of this when we speak to our God; heknows our thoughts afar, off, and all our circum¬stances, better infinitely than we can tell him.These our poor imperfect expressions of ourwants, shall be no hinderance to his full sup-plies, nor any bar to his exercise of friendship| toward us.3. A saint pours out his soul before God,because he is sure of secrecy there. How manythings are there transacted between God and aholy soul, that he could never publish to theworld I and many things also that concern hisconduct in life, his embarassment of spirit, hisdifficulties, his follies, or the obstinacy, guilt, orfollies of his friends or relatives, which prudenceor shame forbid him to tell his fellow creatures:and yet he wants to spread them all before GodI his best friend, God his dearest relative, the friendnearest to his heart. There may be many cir¬cumstances and cases in life, especially in thespiritual life, which one Christian could hardlyj communicate to another, though under the strict-, est bonds and ties of natural, and civil, and sacredrelation; though we may communicate these veryaflairs, these secret concerns, with our God, andunburden our souls of every care, without the leastpublic notice.We cannot be perfect secure of this with regardto any creature; for when we have experiencedthe faithfulness of a friend many years, he maypossibly be at last unfaithful: unfaithfulness ismingled with our nature since the fall, and it isI impossible any person can be infallibly secure fromi it. Peal. Ixii. 9. Men of low degree are vanity.18and great men are a lie; but we may leave ourcase with our God, as secure as though we hadcommunicated it to none: nay, we may be easilysecure and free in speaking, because God knowsail before-hand. Our complaint adds nothing tohis knowledge, although it eases our souls, andgives us sweet satisfaction in having such a friendto speak to.4. A saint believes the equity, faithfulness,and the love of God; therefore he spreads his casebefore him. His equity, that the judge of all theearth will do right; the righteous may plead withhim. His faithfulness, that he will fulfil all hispromises; and his love, that he will take compas¬sion on those who are afflicted; he will be tenderto those who are miserable. David takes occa¬sion from this to address God under his sufferingsand sorrows: Psal. Ixii. 1, 2. “ He is my rock,and my salvation, and my defence; I shall notbe moved; therefore my soul waits upon God;my refuge is in him; he is a God that hearsprayer, therefore unto him shall all flesh come,”Psal. Ixv. 1. God will not account our com¬plaints troublesome, though they be never so of¬ten repeated; whereas men are quickly weariedwith the importunities of those who are poor andneedy. Great men are ready to shut their doorsagainst those who come too often for relief; butGod delights to hear often from his people, and19; to have them ask continually at his door for mercy.(Though he has almighty power with him, saith1 Job, yet he will not plead against me with his: great power; no, but he would put strength inme; he would teach me how I should answerhim; how I should answer his justice, by appealsto his mercy; and how I should speak prevailing-' ly before him.5. Lastly, A saint tells God all his circum-j stances and sorrows at such a season, because he! hopes for relief from him, and from him only; forit is impossible creatures can give relief underI any trouble, unless God make them instrumentsof relief. And there are some troubles in whichcreatures cannot be our helpers, but our help musti come only from God, and that in a more immed-: iate way. Whatsoever be our distress, whetherit arise from past guilt and the torments of ananxious and troubled conscience, or whether it a-rise from the w-orking of indwelling sin, thestrength of temptation, or the violence of tem¬poral afflictions, still God is able and willing togive relief. “ Call upon me (saith the Lord) inthe day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and thoushalt glorify me;” Psal. 1. 12- And he hathnever said to the seed of Jacob, seek ye my facein vain, Isa. xlv. 19.IV. The fourth general head of discourse20which I proposed, is to shew how a saint, nearthe mercyseat, pleads with God for relief.Holy Job tells us in this text, that if he wasgot near to the seat of God, he would fill hismouth with arguments.Not as though he would inform God of the ne¬cessity, or the justice of his cause, beyond whathe knew before; no, this is impossible; he thatteacheth man all things, shall he not know?Psal. xciv. 9, 10. He who orders all the circum¬stances of our lives, and every stroke of his ownrod, can he be unacquainted with any thing thatrelates to our sorrows ?Nor can we use arguments with God to awa¬ken his ear, or move his compassion, as thoughhe had neglected us or forgotten our distress; forall things are for ever naked and open before theeyes of him with whom we have to do. Theshepherd of Israel cannot slumber; nor does hismercy want our awakenings.But in this sort of expressions, the great Godcondescends to talk, and to transact affairs withus, and permits us to treat with him in a waysuited to our weakness; he would have us pleadand argue with him, that we may show how deepa sense we have of our own w'ants, and how en¬tirely we depend on his mercy. Since we can¬not converse with him in a way equal to his ownmajesty and Godhead he stoops to talk with us21in such a way as is most agreeable to our state,and most easy to our apprehension, he speakssuch language as we can understand, and invitesus to humble conference with him in the sameway. Come, says God to his people, by Isaiahhis prophet, Come now, and let us reason to¬gether, Isa. i. 18. And he often in holy scrip¬ture, represents himself as moved and influencedby the prayers and pleadings of his afflicted saints;and he has ordained before hand, that the daywhen he prepares their hearts to pray, shall bethe day when his ear shall hear the desire of thehumble, and shall be the season of their deliver-ence, Psal. x. 17.If you inquire, how a Christian pleads withhis God, and whence does he borrow his argu¬ments ; I answer, that according to the varioussorrows and difficulties which attend him, sovarious may his pleadings be for the removal ofthem. There is not a circumstance which be¬longs to his affliction, but he may draw some ar¬gument from it to plead for mercy; there is notone attribute of the divine nature, but he mayuse it with holy skill, and thereby plead forgrace; there is not one relation in which Godstands to his people, nor one promise of his cov¬enant, but may at some time or other afford anargument in prayer. But the strongest andsweetest argument that a Christian knows, is the22name and mediation of Jesus Christ his Lord.It is for the sake of Christ, who has purchasedall the blessings of the covenant, that a sainthopes to receive them ; and for the sake of Christ,he pleads that God would bestow them.But having treated largely •>n this subject, itremains that I make a few useful reflections onthe whole foregoing discourse.REFLECTION I.What a dull and uncomfortable thing is reli¬gion without drawing near to God 1 for this is thevery business for which religion is designed; theend and aim of religion is getting nigh to God ;if it attain not this end it is nothing.O the madness of hypocrites, who satisfy themselves to toil in long forms of worship, and appearperpetually in the shapes of religion, but uncon¬cerned whether they ever get near to God by itor no ! They lose the end and design for whichreligion was made. What if we know all thedoctrines of the gospel; what if we can talk ra¬tionally about natural religion; what if we candeduce one truth from another, so as to spread awhole scheme of godliness before the eyes or earsof those we converse with; what if we can proveall the points of Christianity, and give uncon-testable arguments for the belief of them; yetwe have no religion if our souls never get near toGod by them. A saint thinks it a very melan-i ^holy thing when he is at a distance from God,fnd cannot tell God his wants and sorrows.Chough he be never so much studied in divinity,nd the deep things of God, yet if God be notwith him, if he does not come near to his mercy-seat, so as to converse with him as his friend, thesoul is concerned and grieved, and never rests tillhis distance be removed. It is to little purpose11 these forms are maintained, if we have not theubstance and the power of godliness; if ourJ God be not near us, if we never get near to God.REFLECTION II.How happy are we under the gospel, aboveah ages and nations besides us, and before us!For we have advantages of getting near to God,beyond what any other religion haa ; above whatthe heathen world ever enjoyed; for their lightof nature could never show them the throne ofgrace; above what the ancient petriarchs had,though God came down in visible shapes, andrevealed and discovered himself to them as a manor an angel; above what the Jews had, thoughGod dwelt among them in visible glory in theholy of holies. The people were kept at a dis¬tance, and the high-priest was to come thitherbut once a-year; and their veil, and smokes, andshadows, did, as it were, conceal God from them,although they were types of a future Messiah; andeven their Shekinah itself, or cloud of glory,24gave them no spiritual idea or notion of Godhead,though it was a shining emblem of God dwellingamong them.REFLECTION III.Lastly, That future state of glory must beblessed indeed where we shall be ever near toGod, even to his seat, and have no sorrows to tellhim of. If it be so delightful a thing to comenear the seat of God here upon earth, to mournbefore him, and to tell him all our circumstances,and all our sorrows, how pleasurable a blessednessmust that of heaven be, where we shall be everrejoicing before him, as Christ Jesus was beforethe world was made, rejoicing daily before him;and our delight shall be with that God whocreated the sons of men; where we shall be forever telling him of our joys, and our pleasures,with humble adoration of his grace, and everlast¬ing gratitude.O that I could raise your souls, and mine, toblessed breathings after this felicity, by such re¬presentations ! But how infinitely short must thebrightest descriptions fall of this state and place !May you and I, who speak and hear this, mayevery soul of us be made thus happy one day, andlearn the extent and glory of this blessedness, bysweet and everlasting experience. Amen.FINIS,