T H EWitty and EntertainingEXPLOITSo FEORGE BUCH A TA <1,WHO WAS COMMONLY CALLED,»The KING’S FOOL.In Six Parts, Complete.TO WHICH IS ADDED,Several Witty and Entertaining yeJU*STIRLING:PRINTED AND SOLD BY C. RANDALL.D C C. X C I *>.• f OF SCOXLATHEIVifty and EntertainingEXPLOITSo FGEORGE BUCHANAN.PARTI.1^. R. GEORGE BUCHAN AN was a Scotfman born,JLVJL aud ihottgbof mean parentage,'madf great nrogreisinlearning.—As ^orhis usderftanding and ready wit,be exceeded all men then alive in that age, that t ver propo-fed queftions to him.—He was fervant or teacher to K;ngJames VI. as his private counfellor, but ptiblicly he ailedas his foolIt happened onV day, that a young airy nob'eman wentinto the king’s gafdep ta pui! n flower for a y r.ng lady hefancied: George followed at a diflaoce; fo when th youngman found a flow’er to his pie a In re, he would not pull itliimfelf, but to find it again without further fearching hecovered it with his hat and went away for his fweethe.rt ;uo looner was he gone, but up gt'cs George, litis his hst,pulls the flower, tlicn cafes himfelf on the fpot, and coversit with the hat again, and away he goes In co nes theyoung man, leading his fwectheart to cull the flower belowthe hat; but as foon as he lifted the hat, and teeing wh itwas below, he looked like a Fool The lady lies in a paffion,oft (he 7oes, a^id never would countenance him nv more.The young man being faiily vexed at this affront cone tohim by George, fent him a challenge to fight 1 im,appointingday and place where they were to meet Being to fignt ouhorfeb 'C k, George gets an old fiiffborfe, and for harneffing,covers him about with ‘down bladders, with a liitie Imallffonr in each, without either fwon; or fpear, a wav to thefi Id he goes, .here the duel was appointed; fo when Gco/gelaw his enemy coming againft him. all in glittering armour,aimed with fword and, fp*at> he rodeftip to him with all thefpeetl I Js Lorfe -poult' car y h:m, and bis horfe* as is f::i !>being all covered over With bln aers, the (mall fto* es in’.hem, ujade fuehtcr fble qoile, that the gentleman’s finej-eMing wruld not ftand the Uttie, butrpji sway, and threwi is mafter to the ground, which caufed aii the ors toAugh, and fay, the gentkman was more fool than George.I ['he gentleman being fo enraged at this ftcond atfrout, heu’ould tight with George on foot; but hiafriei df perfuacedi im that it would be no honour -or him to fight and kill the.ing’s fool, and lar left to be killed by the fool, fo they‘(fere advifedbctb to agrc ■ ; but the gentle an would try.! .nother exploit with Gcorgr, for to have it laid he was flillhe clevereit man, to h<»id h'm a jnroping-bc ut publicly theA^xt day thereafter. With ail my heart, fays Georg- and: ve will end in and about w; ere we began ; they not kuo'.y-: ng his meaning in this. The place and hour being let wherehoy were to meet next rooming, Geoive in the night cauf-■d a deep pit to be made, and the earth cf it carried -ovav,lidtevwards filled it up with lung from a privy, cove iti jver with a green turf, fo thst it might not be known Hv ’he)ther ground ; fo, according to prornilc, they both r. ’ ’fti :he morning againft the appointed time: uov- '• -eoiirt !Pghe oldeft man, and by them counted tut cnvaull fool theyoung man permitted him u> jump ftrft, w i..h lit, accordingo order, performed; an1 jujnped -vithia a .00 of the pt.<qekyhetc the ground .as talfified : the young m n feeing this,made his periormance aitet wards with gr *at airs and 'ail Idamight, lo that he jumper: a oot ov-r George, but to t.i.')oxters among ch-au dung ; here-.t the whole roulriiube offpeedators cried out with nuzza and laughter. Now, f ys. George, I told you we wbiua end in and about where we; oepan, and that is iu cl*an dirt.On a time aster this, the king and hip court was goinginto the country, and they would have George to ride bfiioreithem in the foot’a-drefa, whereuntobe feemed unwilling, butit was the king’s pleafure. So Geo e was mounted uponm old horie, a pair cf old riven boots, with the heel,, hangingdown, a palmer coat patched over with piciurcs of diverskinds. George rode before them in this pocure, wh.chcaufed great laughter and diverlion until they c^me to n: -nn, where they t.bghted to dine ; and in the time they wereat dinner George went into the ftableS; and with a knife cutdl the horfes chafts, not fore, but fo as they might bleed,j Now, as foon as dinner was over, and they mounted on theirtjhorfrs again, George riding before them as ufual, in hiapalmer coat and old boon, they began to make their gam( 4 )of him : then Gedrge turned about fuddenly, and clappinghis hands w'th loud laughters; the king allied bim, whamade him laugh fo ? Laugh, fays George, how cau I builaugh, when horfes Cannot hold thtir peace? O my fovereignfays he, don’t you fee how your horfes have rent all theiichafts laughing at my old boots ; then every man looking ahis horfe’s mouth, they were all in a rage againft Georgethe king caufed him to he difmounted diredly, and chargihim never to let him fee his face on Englilh gronnd. NovGeorge knowing that nothing could reconcile the kiny athis time, he came away to Scotland, and cauf d make ha pair of great boots, and put a quantity of Scott ifh earth ieach of them, and away he go^s for England, to fee the kinonce more. He hearing the king and h>s court was to pathrough a country village, George places himieif up in aold window, and lets up his bare arfe to the king and hicourt as they paffed by. The king was greatly amazed tfee fuch an unufual honour done to him, was curious, tknow the performer ; fo he called unto him, afkinghim tcome down, and finding it to be George, Sir, fays the kingdid not I charge you Sever to let me fee your face again ?True, my fovereign, fays George, for which <.anfe Ike youfee n y arfe. Ay hut fays the king, you was never to come onEnglifh ground a lain. Neither I did, lays George, puling-off his boots before the king, faying, Behold, my Sovereign,Tis all Sects ground I ftand Upon.—The king and his court":being fo divert; d with this merry joke, George was admittedagain to the king’s favour.After this, there arofe a debate betwixt the king and the-queen about votes in the parliament ; as the king had tw<votes, the queen would have one, and would needs be apariiamenter, or no peace without the preierment; this mat¬ter was committed to George by the king ; fo it was agreedwith the parliamenters that the (ducen fhould he a emitted!into parliament for a day ; and accordingly flic came, and-.W"« ' ectived with all the honour and congratulations, as was,;due, and becoming her high ffation ; but before any matter*of confequence was brought to the board, George ieated.himfedf hard by the queen’s feat; all being filent, he roleup very cjuickiy, and lifted one ot his legs, and then gave agreat tart, which fet the whole houfe a laughing ; whereatthe Queen was greatly offended, crying, Go take the rogueaad Hang him ; to which George anfwcrcd, A fine parka*( 5 )itknte’r indeed, to hang a roan for a finlefs infirmity, andthat’s a fart ri’he Q^een being fo tnr gtd at thlp affrontput on her fnft pt e oofal to pariisrr.ent, went off in a paffionand never «ould courtenance them any more. Ikityct tobe revenged on George, fhe would ne ver give the Kingleft till he delivered up George into her hands'* thait he rr 'ghtbe punifhed at her pleafure : which the king accordinglycommanded to be done, knowing that Geodge v.ouM refeuchimfelf by fome intrigue or other. No foom r was fhe deli¬vered into her hands, to be at her difpofal, but fhe and herMaries pronounced his doom, which is r.n follows; As.hehad affronted the Queen among fo great an equipage, whoought to be honoured in chief, and above all women in thenation, that he ihould be ftoned to death by the hands ofwomen. Now his time being come that he was to die, ac¬cording to their appointment, he was taicen into a park,where a great number of women was waiting upon him, withtheir apions full of Hones, to fall upon him, and to put himto death, according to the queen’s appointment.Ins SPEECH to his Executioners.Here’s a female band with bags of Hones,To kill a man for rum pit groans.I’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts.Could I convert my farts to rifts?Since I, the fuft, for farting die,Clofe up the place from whence they fly jTo commit my crime, I think yellfcarcejIf ojnee you do cork up your aide.And now fince women ft' ncs do rarry,Men need not in the world tarry,Judge if fuch women be chnftc complete,With forty ft nes between their feet.But fince it’s fo, ye will come on,The greateft whore throw the firft ftone.When he ended with thefe words, The great eft whorefliould throw the firil ftone, every one put it to anotherta caft the firft ftone ; but knowing they would attain thecharacter of a whore for fo doing, they all refuted, till thedv ing hour wao paft, r.nd then he took a proteft again ft them,and by that mean gained his life. ' ■Alter this he was admitted to the queen’s favour and pre-fence, attending the court as formerly. About this time Hi«I ranch king not knowing how to pick a quarrel with GrcaiBtitain, fent.a letter to the king, dehnV it to be read( 6 )T come ? Will I come ? Will I l nit ? 1 his letter beingread bl'qre the •, • jt -in cl his com tiers, they ad concludedth t t.h.e I rcn. h kin, 'efigne-; to icvr.de England ; thereforethey wrot' letter ou purpole tn fend to him again upbraid¬ing him with the breach of peace and putting him in mindo< the laft treaty. This letter being rend over befo.e theKing and hi« Nobles, they all condefeended that it thouid ji:ie'enr as an r.niwcr; hut Gtor firuling and fhaking hiaheat4, cried Cut, M?ny men, many minds ;Who kno vs what he defigne ?Then they alkeilGeorge what bethought the Iren- h kingmeant y fuch letter r to which he snfwered, I fuppo e hewents an inyitat on to come over to dinner and tnen goback in a frien-vy mtnner ; but you are going to charge himwith a breach of peace, be’ore he has given any lignal ot of¬fence or war : his ft er s ndeed dark an1 my dual, butfend him an aniwer ac orbim to hi: queiiiou Now Georgebeing ordered to write the aniwer, it war-, ' nd ye come.And ye come. And ye c .me. This being ^ent to the FrenchKing, he admired it beyond expreflion, f.vin». It was ananfwer more valiant and d.-irmg than he expebfed ; fo theenmity he inbnded was thereby turne ' into iove.About this time it happened that a malignant party inScotland lent up a great Ipokefman to the King and .Parlia¬ment, for the feducing of the Church : George hearing of ihis coming, went away and met him on the bridge, end thefalntation that he gave him was, the cutting off h s head,and throwing it over the bridge, then van to the kin, w.thail lift might, Jailing down before him, pleaded mod hear-ti'y for a par‘on, or without it he wss a dead pian ; th( kingmoil ft ioidly idked him what he had done now ? to whichlie ' iv werec, hie had only throw n the Scots biihop’s hat o-ver the bridge, which made the king to laugh, to hear him 'pardon lor inch a fmall fruit ; b> t he had no fooner gotthe par.ion tealed by the kings hand, than he fr.id, in U edjpy fovereign, I tl.tew,hie hat over the bridge, but his headwas in it Geor ’y, Geondy, fays the King, thou wilt nevergiv- over till thou be hangfd.P After this, a nobleman m England agreed with the K ng jbow to put a trick upon Geotge, to try his manly ccur.fce, :in fending him to a certain houfe tor a bag of money. ^Onbisway home thiough bt James’s Park, they can ..J a f.ur-dy fellow to and fet the way upon him, and taite the mo-ney : tiebtfing'armetl with fword and niftol came up briffi-ly, an 1 attaf ked George with thefe ;ords. You. Sir, ddirver what money yon have, or you are a des;' rnsn : to whichGeorge anfWered, Sir, I have money indeed, but ’tis not myown, and l am forry to give it ; neverthelefY fince I am not! armed as you are to exchange blow for it, you fhall haveit; but pray, do me the favour as to fire vour pifiol throughthe flap of mv cloak, that the owners may fee I have been! in daeger of my life 1 efore I loft the raouev which he accord-| inrly performed. No fooner had he fired it, than George; whips out his hanger from below his cloak, and with oneftroke cut of his right h nd, wherein he held his fword, foa! that both his fworo and the hand fell to the ground ; butGeorge lifted his hand, and carried it to the King. No: fooner did he come before them, but they alked him, faying,1 Well George, did you fee anybody to trouble you by the|vw y ? No, fa;d he, but one fellow, who was going to ta&e| the money from me ; but I made hi u give me his hand he| would not do the like again. You did, fays the iellow’sr mallei ? Yes, I did, fays George, let work bear VVltnefs,if throwing "Sown the fellow’s hand on the tabic before them.Now this laft exploit of George’s eaefed many of theI Er.glith to hate him, and amou;* the reft, a young noblemanS fell a jockmg of George, in faying, he would lie as famouss a champion for Scotland as Sir William Wallace was: Ay,Jay, lays George, William Wallace was a brave man in histime. True, indeed, fays tne other, but when he came toLondon, we did him all manner or juftice, and for honouri of the Scots, we have his effigy .n the Ihite-houfcs to thisi very ddy. And do you not know the reafon of that, faysGeorge ? No, I don’t, fays he Will, I’ll tell you, fays1 George, he was fuch a terror to the Englifttmen when he! was alive, that a fight of im yet makes them beilfrte them-fclvea The Englilh took this anfwer as a great afir®nt, andforthwith caufed VYaiLce’s pifture to be taken out of tha^15 place.PART II.Q.EO RGE happened one night to be in company with aJdkliop, and io they fell to argumenting anent.retie ion..( 8 ).wheftin George got the better of him. anJ the Bifhop foundhimfelf he vvas wrong ; then one of the company addrefledhimfelf to George in thefe words, thou Scot, faid he, oughtnot to havele t thy country ; For what ? £ay.s George ; Be-caufe thou hafl brouglit al. the knowledge of it a'ong withthee- No. no, fzys George, the fliepherds in Scotland willBrgumert w;th any Bifhop in Engl .n!, and exceed themmighty far hr knowledge. The Engl lh clergy took this asa great affront, and feveval nobleman affirmed it to be asGeorge had faid. Wagers were laid thereon, and three ofthe Englifh clergy were chofen and Cent away to Scotland todifpute it with the fhepherds, accompanied with feveral gen¬tlemen, who were to bear witnefa of what they heard pafabetween them- Now George knowing what way they weregone, took another road, and came into the Septs boundsbefore them, made up his acquaintance with a fhepherd atthe border, whofe pafture lay haid by the way fide, wherethe clergymen were to pais; and here Gep-ge mounted him¬felf in a fhrpherd’s drefs, and when he faw the clergymencoming, lie conveyed his floek to the read fide, where hefell a finging.a latin fong ; and fo, to begin the quarrel, oneof them afked him, in French, What o’clo.-k it was? Towhich he anfwered in Hebrew, It is direftly about the timeof the day it was yeflerday at this time Another afked himin Greek, WJrat countryman he was ? To which he ?.Efwer-ed in Flemiih, If you knew that, you would be as wife asmyfelf The third afked him in Dutch, Where was youeducate? To which he anfwered in Earfe, herding my fheepbetween tbi? and Locbaber. This they begged him to explain in Englifh, which he accordingly did. Now, laid they_pne to another, we need not go any farther i What, faysGeorge, are you Jrutchers ? I’ll fell you a few fheep Tothis they made no anfwer, but went away fhamefully, fwear-ing that the Scots had gone through a! the nations in theworld to learn their language, or the devil had taught themit, for we have-no fhare here but fhame.After that George had ended thedifpute with the Englifhclergyman, he Jlript off his Ihepherd’s drefs, and up throughEngland with all the hafte imaginable, fo that he arrived atthe place from whence they fet out, three days before them,and went every day afking if they were come, fo that hemight not be fufpedled. Now, upon their arrival, all thatwere concerned in the matter, and many more, to hear wh*t( 9 )sews from che Scots (Lepherds, came crowding in, to knowtliat was done. No foonerhad the three gentlemen declar-jd what was paft between the clergyman and the fliepherds,i|?hom they found on the Scats border, but the old bifhoptnade anfwer, and thi skyou, laid he, that a fhepherd couldnfwer thefe queftions ? It has been none elfe but the devil,' or the Scots minilters themfelves could not do it; they areiut ignorant oi fuch matters ; a parcel of beardiefs boys.Then George thought it was time to take fpeech in hand.my lord bifhop, fay* he, you c ol them a parcel efIgnorant beardiefs boys, you have a great long beard your-E'elf, my lord bidiop, an I if the grace of God were meafur*d by beards, you bifaops, and the goats will have it all, and}hat wil'1 be quite avo.fe to feripture. VVhat, fays the iihop,ire you a Scot ? Yes, fays George, I am a Scot: Well, fayshe bifliop, and what is the difference between a Scot andI' fot ? Nothing atprefent, fays George, but the breadth ofdie table, there being a table betwixt the bifhop and GeOrgejo the biihop went off in a high paflion, wnile the wholemultitude were like to fpllt their jaws with laughter.About this time there was an add of parliament for the be¬nefit of murderers, that any perfon if they committed mur¬der, f they forfeited 500 merles, which went under the njraeb( Kin boot, bccaufe fo much of this fine went to the n>ar-ilered perlon’s neareft relation, as the price of blood, th*'f.uurderer got a remit. Now George knowing this to be,'ontrary to Mofes’ laws, was very much grieved to lee manypardons foaled with the king’s hand for murder, almoft one‘I ;very week ; it being fo ufual for the king to fubferibe them,:hat he would not read them, nor inquire what they were ::or which caufe George writes a right to the crown, and*ent it to the king to he fubferibed, which he adfuallydid, and never looking what it was, returned it to George :no fooner had he received it, but he goes to the king, andmid him it was not time for him row to be fitting there ;Whereat the king, greatly amazed, flarted up, then Georgelin a great hafte fets himlelf c^own in the king’s chair, forth¬with declaring himfelf king, faying, You who was king mull|be my fool, for I am now the wifdt man. The king at thia.was greatly offended, until George fhewed him his fcai mdfuperfeription ; but from that day forth the king knew whatfubferibrd. .B( )TSe next pardon that c">roe to be fealed by the kinjr, wasto ?. gentleman who ba' killed two men before, and hadpot ten •^ar.'or.'' foi them by money. This being the third,the king looked very filent in looking over the petition;G<orge ftandicg by, afleed thekinti wrhat he was going tofeat now ? to which he anfwered, It is a remit for a manwho had killed three men at fundry troes, I gave him tworett its before. O ! fays George he has killed but one man ;and who killed the other two ? j^ysthe king; you did, f«ysGeorge, for if you had given him juftiee when he killed the 1he had killed no more When the king heard thefewords, he threw down the pen, and declared that fuch anaft, to fave a murderer, fhould be null ever after by him.One day after this, George having no money, he goes a-way and gets a pick and fpade, and then falls a digging at acorner of the king’s palace, which the king perceiving fromhis window, calls what he was wanting there ? are you go-,irg to undermine my houfe, and make it f*b ? No. my ib-vereign, faid he, but if is verily reported that there is plentyof money about this houfe, and where can it be ? I cannotflnd it; for it is not within the houfe to do me fervice, thenfinely it trluft be below it O George, that is a crave alter ^the new falhion : What monev you want. I’ll order it foryou. Then, my fevereign, I’ll dig no more-One time after this George being in the country, he cameto an inn where he alighted to refrefh himfelfend his boric ;the innkeeper charged him double pskx? Jcr every thing h.ecalled for; George never grumbled at this but gave him allhu demands, and away he goes on bis journey ; and wherebe quartered the night following, he was ufed after the famemanner, if not worfe. No < Geoig* having little f?. ;ber to.go, he returned the next da*, and came that night to the,ijm where be refrefhed bln.felt the day oef>r : to when healighted, the boy afked him. Sir. what fin'll I give yourb.erfe ? What you will, boy. fays George No former hadbe gone into his roo r, but the drawer sficed him, What willyou have to drink, Sir ? Whnt you will, Nyf. George • Themafter of the inn came into his room before fupp< r, alkinghim, What will you have for fopper. Sir? What you w;!!*-landlord, faja George. Now ai ter (upper being ended, and'a hearty bowl to put all over, George went to bed and ,;Otup pretty ecrlv in the r. orning, he ;1 , d ‘or f t ' oy tomake rei.dy his horfe in ail haile, for he clefigned to mountI waa in one of the fineftI ever had in my life ; theyin need of unto me without eal-3iim and go dire£Uy : fo in a fliort tifae he went into the R&-ible where the boy was, calling for his horfe, and mountingihim with all the fpeed he could, g ving the boy a piec^ oflimoney, faying, here, my boy, tin’s is for your taking careijof my horfe, I have paid for all 1 called for in the toufe, andijblf he goes. Now, about mid clay^ he alighted again at artiinu to refrefh himfelr ana his Uorfe, and there he chanced tobe in company with his other landlord, where be was thenight bef 're, and charged him with the double reckoning,ifo George addreffed himfelt to him as follows: Sir, faysi George, I do believe I- was in your houfe yellcrnight. O; yes, Sir, I mind of you pretty well; and where waayoulaft(right ? Lad night! fays George,5nns, and the civileft landlordbrought all things I ftoodlitjgfor it, and when I came oft'this rrornin.;, they chargedjjj:ine nothing, and l paid no hinp bat lixpsnee to the boy forijdreflingmy horfe. Blood and wounds, raid the old fellow*then. I’ll go there this niti-ht. Ay, fays George, do ; andmind this, when they alk you what you vill have for your-felt and your horfe, anlwer noihing. hut - hat you will, fir*Now George fmiled v ithin uintfelf,vt.> think how he had gotthe one extortioner t<5 take amends of the other. So thefo elaid irnk eyer rode hat night until mony people of thet| inn were gone to bed before he can e in. Wo foontr was healighted from hit horfe, than the boy afked him, What fhaliI give to your borfe, mailer? to which he anfwtrtd, Whatyou will, boy. The boy hearing this, he runs away (leav¬ing him and his horfe to ftand at the door) up ftaira to hiamailer’s room, crying, Maher, Mailer, What you will iscome agaia ! O the rogue, cries he, where is he ? I’ll / anehim, I’ll what you will him by and l v ; and to him he runswith his cane, licks and kicks him until he is fcarce ableto mount hjs boric, and would give him no tntertainmentthere ; which caufed him to i ide the whole length of a coldwinter night, after he had got his bones all beat and bruifedfSo the one pmfued the other as a murderer; aod ids defencewas, that he was a cheat and a fcoruer ot his hode, untilthe truth v* us found out.About this time the French kingfent and demanded fromthe king of hngland three men of different quahtie* ; theone was to be a mighty ilrong man, the other a very wifeman, aad th« third a great foci; fo that he might have none( 12 )in all France to match them In their ftatfor?. So aceordinjjly l|there were two men choien, the one a ftrong man an the jother a wife man, bui George was tp nth as a fool: never- |thelefs, he was the teacher of the other two. And on theirway to France, George afked the Itrong in an, what will youanfwer the French king, if he afleu if you be a ftrrng man ? fI’ll fay lam. Then, fays George, he’ll get a ftrong r man ii;than you, who nuy kill you and affront your country Whatfhall I fay then ? laid the flrong man. Why. fay George, 'tell him you art- ftron? enom:h untried. Then fays G;orgeto the wife man, and what will you fay to the king, when Jbe afks if you arc a wife man ? I’ll teM him I am, and anfwer -him all the queftu na I know' Very well, fays George, ard |what if he afk you what you do not know, th-n you’ll at- 1front your country, ano be looker! on as a greater fool than |me. What fhali I anfwer then ? frid the wife man : Why, "fays George, tell him, he is only a wife man that can take sjcare of himfelf ; and I fhall come in after you, and take care 'of you ail together. No fooner were they come to the k'ng’spalace, than the king fentfor them to try them. The ftrong >,man being firft. called for, he goes; then the king afked him \Are you a ftrong man, fir ? to which he anfw red, O king, ’I am flrong enough untried : very good, far’d the king. Af-1ter him entered the wife man, to whom the king put the 'queftion, fir, are you a wife man ? to which he anfwered, 1He is only a wife man that can take care of himfelf: verygood, fays the king.. With that George pufhed up the door,»and in he goes with loud laughter, pifles direftly in thel .king’s face, whic h blinded both bin cyet, and fet the whole ^court in amaze Now, now, fays the king, it is true enough jj .the Wife man fays, for if I had taken care of my felt, I needjjnot been piffed upon by the Englifh tool. O no, fays George,|fools always tir-rve to make fools of others, but Wife men:make fools ot themlelvea. The king imagined as much as|he was ms-dethe greateft fool and charged them forthwith fito go home, for he wanted no more of England’s flrengllvwifdom, or folly.One night after this, a Highland drover chanced to have !ia drinking bout wivh an Englith captain of a fhip, and at lad ithe EngUfh captain and him came to be very lieartyviaver r,their cup j fo they called in their fervants to have a (hare oftheir liquor; the drover’s fervant looked like a wild man, jj-,going without breeches, ttockings <?r fhoes, not fo much aa «( 13 )a bcimet on his head, with a lonj? peel’d rung in his hand.The cspt in afked V.im how long it was fince lie catchedhim ? it is about two years finee I haul’d him out of tbefea• with a net, and a lt« r wards he ran into the mountains, whereI catched bin, with a pack of hounds. The carrtain believedit was fo ; but. fays he, I have a fer-ant the heft fwimmer inEurope. O but, fays the driver, my fervant will fwim himto death. No, fays the captain, I’ll lay 200 guineas On it.Then fays the dr over, I hold it one for one, and itakes itdiredUy, the day being appointed when the trial was to bemade. Now, the drover, when he ceme to himfelf, thinking•J on what a bargain he had made, did not know what to do,t { knowing very well his fervant could £wim none. He hearingi of George being in town, who always was a good friend t*i a Scotfn an ; he went unto him, and told him the whole.1 ftory. and that be would be intirely broke, and durft never|l return home to his own country, tor he was fure to loie it.4 Now George called the drover and his fervant abide, and(l| inftrufted them how to bring him off with fafety, and gainil too ; fo accordingly they met at the place apj c nte,: ; the■i| captain’s fervrnt dripped dhectly, and threw himftlf into•lif the fea, taking a turn until the highlandman was ready, forthe drover took fome time to put his fervant in order : afterIhewasftripped, hismailer took his plaid, snd roiled akebbock of cheefe, a hiir loaf, and a bottle of gin in it, andthis he bound on hi? /boulders, giving him a direftion, totell his wife and children he was wdl; to be fure he return.^ ed with an antwer agdnil that day fe’ennight. So ao he went1 into the lea. he looked back to his mailer, and call eut tohim for his claymore. And, what waits he for now ? fay'dhe who was to fwim along with him. He wants his fword,fays his mailer : his fword ! fays the fellow, what is he todo with a fword ? Why, fays his mailer, if he meets with aWhale or a nionftrous bea/l, it is to defend his life ; I knowhe’il have-to light his way through the north leas, e’er he goto Lochaber. Then, cries the oilier, I’ll fwim none withhim, if be takes hts (word. Ay, but, fays his maficr, you(hall, cr lofe the wager ; take you another fo/ord with you.No, fays the fellow, I never did fwim with a fword, norany man elfe, that ever I faw or heard of ; I know not butthat wild like man will kill me in the deep water ; I wouldnot for the whole world venture myfelf with him and a fword.-The captain feeing his fervant afraid tc venture, or if b"e did.■ » ?he was fure never to fee him atrain alive ; therefore, he de«firec1 an a^retm‘’ut with the drover, who at fir 11 ftemed un-wi liri' ; but the captain put it in his will ; fo thr drover<]im him fo> an hundred guineas. This he came to throughCieonre’s advice.PART m.^T'TER this, George being in Cornwall shout fome: fir.tfs, where he chanced to run fhortof money, and |net knowing what to do, being acquainted with none inthat country, and knowing his landlord to be loyal to thegoveiiirrent, and a great favourite to the king his'nailer ;takes a piece ot biick, .nd Lrays it to a fmall powder mixedwith a little chalk, fo that it might feem in colour, like jat truck wb;ch is dio.ig poifoa ; then tying it up in papers,writing on this direction, the (Irongeil poifon for ( tie king j jand r n another paper, the flower poifon for the queen. ;Gu lie got-, on pwpofe, and leaves the papers lying on ata it , whf^ehe kn w they would be looking at tnem; the jla; diord j erceived th. direSion; lo in comes George in a ^great hade, aid calls our, O landlord, did you fee two fmall *bund! s I have !o(t, and I know not what I fliail do, fo it |was my main buiim is to take them to ii ondon.—O ! you !egur eiing rogue ! cries the landlord, I’ll h ive you hanged jfor what you intend. .George at this made off, and was go-j«.' ofl) or it, but the lane lord called for afliftance ; fo heapprdiended, and made pr.f mer of date, and carriedup to London by a 'roop of l.orfe ; when the people therel eg m to know him, and t 11 what he was, his guard fliptaway ihamdmly, and left him ; (o George thanked them fortheir good cotnpr.ny and fate convoy.There w-rs a iavv made againfl wearing fwords at balls andaflentbiies, in the reign of King James VI. bccaufe they werejfgC 'iiveaiept on this occafion ; but George, to be witty oa rthe aft, provided himfelf wi^a very long fcabi-ard, and gothimfelf introduced to a ball, where the king and his court j ,iwere prefent; George made ftveral turns through the com- ;pany. piakmghia fcabbard hit againfl their liiins, andfome- 'times fiipt it below a lady’s fardingale ; anc, in fhort. mo-lefled the company fo much, that he was taken notice of, ,and ftized as a perfon who had incurre the pi nalties ot th« ,afmrfaid. But George excufed hirafelf, telling th^j thaihhe 1. ( *5 )'law was only againft (words, and as he only wore a icab*|barr', was no ways’iable. At feeinp tuie, tb'- kingandhl-ascou’ t were convinced that the la- ' wa-1 iaaperfeft, and that3George bad more wit rh',n themfelves.George, one day fading liimfelf at the corner of a hedge,|was efpied by an Englifh ’fquire, who began to mock him,i afking him, Why did he not keckle k’ke the hens j .But} George, wbofe wit was always ready,; told him- He was(afraid to keckle lefl: he fhould come and fratch up the egg.'if Which rebuff made the ’fquire walk off as mute as a fifh.George was proftfibr in the College of St. Andrews, andI flijrt out one day in his go en and flippers, and went to hisl|!travels through Italy, and feveral other foreign countries jli and after feven years, returned with the famedrefs he went| off in ; entered the college, and took a poffeflion of his feati there ; but the profeffor in bis room quarrelled him for foill doing Ay, fays George, it ia a very odd thing thn a man!,{ cannot take a walk out in his flippers, but another will takeif up his feat; and fo fct the other profeffor about his befinefs.There was a bell at Dalkieth, which the Popifh clergyn made ufeof to extort confeflions from the ignorant people,:ij in the following manner : they told ’be perfons whom theyfufpeiltd eui.lty, that the bell w ou’d rive at the touch of zgti-lty perfon, but if not guilty, it would not: by this mesasthey trenerally frightened the ignorant into confeflions; forjhif the bell woulc rive, the perfon was then to he condemnedit to death, but they magnified the matter fo, that the bell w?.*<y never put to the- tri-1, till George did as follows: he was.1 taken up for Tying, that the pope was fallible himftlf, and<1 could not pardon thcfins of others. George owned he faidI fo, but would refer to the bell whether he was guilty or not.i fhe prieffe, though unwilling, were obliged to comply*:| George tou bed the bell, repeating as before, The Pt pe isfa’hble, and canru.t pa den fin, moreover added, The Pope¬'ll a" popifh cl.r;y are impoftors ; and thereupon touched the-Hi I, referring to it for the truth ; but the bdl not renting,| the pruffs weredifgraced as iicpoffnrs, aud he was horour-ably acquitted, an-f the bell w :s laid afi V.jl Geor, e defired a, mr mber of the College of St. A:j Irewsn to l. nd hirh a book • the otiier told him,,he could not poifiblyI fpare it out ol his chamber, bs t if he pica fed he •night: come1 tl-ei<• an ' read al! the d.iy long Some time after the oende-.56 man feet toi -George to borrow hie bellows; but he feht hin»(word, he could not poffibly fpnre them out of his chamber,but he might come there an * blow all the day if he would.A fcholar at the grammar fohool of 3t Andrews, cominginto a room where his mailer had laid down a balket of linecherries for bis own eating, the waggiTh hoy takes it up, anticries aloud, I pubh'fh the banns between thefe cherries andray mouth, if any kno -v'm1'juft caufe or impediment, whythefe two Ihouid not be joined together, let them declare it.The mailer being in the next r; m overheard all that wasfaid ; and, coming into the fchool, he ordered the boy whohad eaten his cherries to be taken up, or, as he called it,horfed on another boy’s back : but before he proceeded tothe ufual eifeipline, he cries out aloud, as the delinquenthad done, I publilh the batifK between the boy’s breechesand ray taws ; if any one knows any jull caufe or impedimentwhy thefe two fhonld not he joined together, lec them declareit. George puffing l>y in tlie mean time, overheard tbs pro¬clamation ; I forbid the banrir, erred he. Why fo, fays the \fcboolmafter ? becaufc the parties are not agreed, replied he.Which anfwer fo plea fed the mafbr, that the boy was letdown without any punilhment.A young gentleman that wanted to be wftty on the ferip-tures, eating fome cheefe full of mites, cne night at a ta¬vern, now. fa.id he, I have done as much ae Sampfon, forI have llsin my thoulands and ten thoufande. Yes, repliedGeorge, who happened to be in his company, and with thefame weapon too, the jaw bone of an a's : which anfwer fetthe whole company a laughing to fee the young gentlemanbeat with his own weapon.George being in company where threebiffiops were prefentat dinner, they knowing George to be a great icholar, andcomical withal, they put upon him to fay the grace, whichbe did as follows :Here are three brethren of the cost,Wh.o for thy bleffings thank thee not.Curie them, Lord, and blefs them not. Amen.Fallon gentlemen, the caufe is good. This grace made .the biffiops look like look on one another, while Georgelaughed heartily at the confufion they were in.A candle maker having had lorr.e cam les Hole, was telling :;it in a company where George was prefent, who bade him ,lie of good cheer, for in a (hott time, fays he, 1 am affiiredfthey will come to light.f 17 )G 'or^e l>etng fent to Paris about fome hofmefs, went fi-OTi1 thence o Verlaillia, to fee the French king’s court: andi icing kno.vn,there to fever tl of the courtiers, who had beeaat the Enxliill co n t, one of them took occafion to tell the[French King, that George was one of the wittieft men inI England ; upon which the French King defired to fee him,which he did’; but George, i feems, was out of humour, or(at kill f-etniugly !o, he fpoke but very little to the purpofe ;fo that the French. King told the nobleman that commendedij'iam for fuch a vit, that he looked upon him as a very dullIffello v ; hut tire no leman affured the King, that whateverihe thought of him, George was a very witty and ingenious[jnian : whereupon the King was refolved to make further tri-ial of him, aud took him into a great gallery, where there."weie abundance of fine pictures; and among thr reft, fhew.red him the pidlure of Chrift on the arofs, and afked him, if|he knew who that war. ? but George made himfeif very igno-irant, and aniwered, no. Why, fays the king, I’ll tell you,Sif you don’t know ; this is the picture of our Saviour on theicrofs, and that on the right hand is the Pope’s, and that onlithe left is my own. Whereupon George replied, I humblyithank your majclly for the information, for though I haveloften heard that our Saviour was crucified between twotithieves, yet I never knew who they were before.A (harper who had acquiied vaft riches by cheating, toldIGeorge, that if fuch a thing as a good name was to be pur-Ichafe4, he would freely give ten thoufand pounds for one.ESir, faid George, it would certainly be the word money youever laid out in your life, Why fo ? faid the (harper ; bc-ucaufe, anfwered he, you will lofe it again in Ids than a week,ji One afleed George, why men alw ys made fuit to thetwomen, and the women never to the men ? Why, fays hepiibecaufe the women are always ready fy the men, but the:men are not always ready for the women.George went into the mint one day, when they were mel-■ ting gold, one of them hiked George, if he would have hla1 hat full of gold ? George readily accepted, but it burnt Inci bottom out of his hat, as they knew it wendd, and !or if.at> boot they fooled George. However, George, Vo be even w kh• 4‘Cm, bought a fine large hat, and caufed a pi* e of copperto he put betwixt the hat and the lining, and returned n xtday, they jeftingly sliced him if he would have another feat-( ,8 )full of gold ? which hs faid he would ; they gave it red hot,!and now George laughed at them in his turn, telling them,]th 't this new hat was a goo * one, and Hood fire better thanth old one ; and focan ted it offhoneftly ; and being after*)wards p’ ofecute for to return it, be excufed himfelf, telling^the judge, that hr took nothing but what was given him jan-., therefore he was honourably acquitted, and the other*b artily laughed at.A Scotfinan being reduced to poverty, made hie court taGeorge fo put h'm in a way ; George told him he would,,provided he would do as he directed him. There was aniold mifer, an ufercr and money-changer hard by ; Georgeordered tbe poor fellow to pretend an errand to the mifer,,and when he came to the table where the heaps of moneyllay, to thrufl his hand among the gold, but to lift none, and:run off. This the poor fellow did, and was chafed by themifer and his .ervanto, who ran ffter him into the lireet*caliinc ftopthe thief; the poor f< How wat flopt, (as G org-ahad defired him to let them catch him.) George appeared!in the mo! , and went along with the poor fellow, who wascarried b1 fore a judge, wi erehe was learched ; and nothingbeing found upon h.m. he w. s acquitted, and the mifer fined,in a large fum for aeculing him dkfterwards George defirsd:htm to go to tire fame pt. ee, and tbruft in both his hand?,And lift up as much as ht could and run tff. This 1 e did,hut the mifer told him, he as not fm h a fool as to follow}him, for he knew he only defire to p! iy the fool to have himtoned -gain. By this means * e poor fellow was enriched,and -i terv,birds lived honedly.George being at dinner one 'ay, where the broth was very!hot, burnt h'8 month an i at tne fame time kt'.ing go alo. d fart ; It is very good for you, fays George, that younrade your etcape, for I fhoukl have burnt you alive hadyou ftaidPART IV*A Young curate, with more pertuefs than wit or teaming i<being alked in comoanv, how. he cam*, to tk; it intchis head to enter Into the miniitry of the churC!- Br-.anfe 1is. he. the Lord hath need of in - Xh.v .vay be, rep’iet jGeorge, wno . rs prefect, for 1 hffve often htarc. ihat tbi tLord had once need ot an afa..( !9 )After thic, George being fent with the Bntifh anabafTa^.or) ito Italy, by the way of Paris : anti i s they were viewing:he beautiful flatties, and large buildings of that fpacio'is> ity : the King, and many of his nobles in com any, as they: rere walking through the King’s garden, among the imagesf the faints, they came to the image of the virgin Mary,.! ’ho flood in a melancholy poflure with the babe i , her arms,me of the noblemen fays to the Britiih ambafTador, don’ton think but fhe looks as fhe were angry ? O ves, faysr Jeorge, (he’s angry when flic fter, Englifhmen and Fnnch-;,en in friendfliip and unity one with another. No, no, laidAte French king, (he loves nothing better than the rtconciii-Iion of enemies; peace and unity is he delight. J heneorge gets in b- lo w the ftatue, an l looks up ; O, fayseorge, I kncw what is the matt.r now, feme bo iy hasiven a great nail m her a'fe, 1 fee the head of it (tickingit, it would vex any living be’e a oiec' of wood. At tf ise king was greatly enraged againft George for faying lo,r calling her apiece of wood ; and nothing wouh: fansfye King, nnlefs that George would hall down and worihipe virgin Mary and crave mercy of her for the blafpheniouspreaches wherewith he had reproached her Then Georgeies out, O may it pleafe your rrajdly to omit it. at thislimt, I dare not look her in the face, lire frowns on me with3uch an angry countenance, this dutiful command of yc ur’sSou ft be delayed until I n turn from Italy, ■ nd then *1 (hallJulfil your demand, in paying all dutiful refpefts and worfhipItnto her, according to what (he is. l,ere the ambafi. dortoed bound for George that he fhould perfu-.m t is pieceif worftiip at his retur,,, according to the king’s pleaiure.Now, during then flay in Italy, they chanced to be in aloblemau’s houle where thev kept but few fervants 1 ecaufe(fa fpirit tin t did haunt the horde ror the fpace of zoo ycaisI jefore that time, fo that no iervant could work anv Kind ofabour in or about the houfe for it, except cooks, 'or what: hey vulgarly called a Brownie, it did all itkif, and would: ufler no tehow labourer to work along with it. On theta»ext morning, George got up pretty early, called for water;( wafti himfelf; then diredtly comes the Bro me wit': aafon of water in the one hand, and a clean cloth m the other.Icorge perceiving him having filch a pale ghofily coun-lUunce, not to be an earthly creature, faid, of what catioattihou f To which it an! we red in Galicor ifarfc, a coun«.trymsn of yorir, Sir. T he atnhr:fl'ador fmiled, stii-l iokedi!George, telling hin;, it was a c’evil, an ’ how cor'd it realcouryman of his ? O, favs George, I’l! fliow you th con- l|■tn.ry cf that, for the devil dare not flay in our country ; |George having walked himfllf, it caaie again to take away jthe bafon and water; then fays George, and how long is itfincc you left your own coi ntry ? about 250 years ago, fays !it. Then certainly, fays he, thou art a devil, and not an ;earthly errature To which he anfwered.I am what I am, and a Chrdlian too.Then I am what I am to conjure yen. (fays George, jHe taking a handful of water, and throwing it on the oldwith red face ot it, repeating the form of the words of bap-tifm in Earfe ; faying, if thou be a Chiiflian, thou art oldenough now to' e baptifed. No fooner had he done tin’s,but ic went off weeping and crying, O! let never a rogueput truft in his countryman a ter me. Now, fays George, iI told you the devil dare not flay in rr.y.country nor yet look ja Scotfrran in the face in h's ovrn. Why. fays the Italian ’lord, Jo you imagine, that this is the devil’t own country ? |It appears fo, fays George, for he is the olo’eft refidenter in (it i now ; but my Itrrd, fail he, and if k pieafe your gr: ce,I think the clergymen are very fcant in this count y, whenyou have kept the devil fo 'ong for a chaplain. The noble¬man unto this gave no anlwrr, but exprefftd his forrov/ tobe verv yrect for the lofs of his Brownie.N iw the amfcaffador hjving don • his bufinffs in Italy, they.returned home war:', and on their way. the ambaflacor < ty a■tooueflion George how he thought to el ape Paris .vituout *committii. t ic'oir ry. No, noi fays George, I never didworship any ima re, nor never fhall; but I fliail make them *woifhip the wc: 11 that is in my guts. No fooner were they |arrived in.Paris, bu> George leaves the ambaffador, stid goes «tlire£Uy to the Virgin Marv, jumps in over the rail to the |ho!yr ground fas they termed it) whereon fhe flood, wherefew durfl go but prieff and friars ; and tlie e he looftd hisbreeches, and made fuch a groaning, eaftng hirofelf, that hewas heard at a diftance by the priefls and friars who werewalking near by, and they perceiv.ng this heinous abomina*tion, ran upon him like a pack of hounds, and carried himbefore tb<i eardimlsand Father confeffors, where he wasallowed to fpeak for bimfeif, whiclwhe did as lollows: Mayit pleafe y our moll excellent Worfhips to hear my reafon$,( 21 )< before you pronounce my fentence to be put in execution a-r| gairft me. Il was y fortune tc be pafling through this citya few months ago, with the Brit'(li ambaffador, on our wayijto 1 taiy ; and one day being walking in the king’s garden inpref-n :e o* the kin^, and many of his nobles, who can bearwitne s to the truth of the fame ; I being ignorant of yourtraditions and rites of religion, foolifrily offended, reproach¬ing the Vr-gin Mary to ber face; and ever fince fhe hasplagued me with a boundnefa in my belly, that I have voidednothing but clean bach ; fo new on my return 1 went andtj implored, her to open n.y fundament, and fhe fas done fo ;| I being overjoyed with the miraculous healing, in gettingt paffage in her prefcr.ee, I 1eft it as a memorial of.the miracleii in that place. When hearing this, they ail wish one confent,S littec up their bands and bleffed the Virgin Ma>y for tbsf wonderful miracle fhe had done ; and ordered Grcrge to go'ii about bis bufi.iefs, and deJat ’ unto all what was done untoI him by the holy Virgin, ror the confirmation of their religion.i So all t're devout Romans came to view his dung, and wor-!fiup ever it; tiie'king himfelf kr<ee!ed down, and worfhip-ped, bowing his body over it, in ptefence of many people ;and a focaufcd a holy dsy to beobftrved thro’ ail his domi-ij n:ons, rot > he miraculous cine.Now G orge being a long time abfent from Britain, hef thought to go an vifit'the king and his court in difguife.i! He meeting with an old man driving two old horfes, loaded^ with co-ih tojell. George here makes a bargain with theold meu, for the loan of his clothes, his horfes and ccaif,whip an: every thing fon to complete him as a real coal-dii er ; fo away he goes in this drefs, until he came beforethe king’s p-iace, where be began to cry with an audiblevoice. Buy coj}-, buy coals ; better buy tdian.borrow. Nowthe kmg being in company with his young chaplain, v. ho wasa foundling, not e knew his original, and had been fulleredand educated out of charny by the king’s father, yet he was■ become as proud as Lucifer, and as proud in his own conceitas the king hiadelf. Now, the king Knowing George’s voice,tho’ he wa* in a coalman's drefs, defired the chaplain to afkthe coalman why he celled fo loud, making fuch a terriblenoife. ! he chaplain opened the window, and with greatairs called unto hi n, You, Sir, Why do you cry fo for }Why, fays George, I cry fo people to come and buy mycoals, and give me money for their ; but what do you err( 2* )for ? W hat, fir, fays the young pried, I cry for you to holdyour peace. Tber>, fays George, come here then, and cryfor me, and go fill my coals, and I will hold my peace. Sellyour coals, favs the prieft, do you know unto whom youfpeak i1 Yes, I do. fays George, but you do not. What areyou ? fays the priclt; 1 am a mortal, and fo are vou, faysGeorge What is your father’s name lince you will not tellyour own ? fays the pridt: You may go alk that at mymother, fays George, for I was not fulfit lent when flic gotme to to know him. What, fays the pried, do you not knowyour own father ? I know my mother, an' my mother uidknow my father, fays George, and tnat is 1 efficient, andmore than you can ffiy, ptrhans. The prieif thinking hewas coming too near'him, thought to put him off with afcriptui'al queltion, by sfking him If he knew who wasMelchizedec’s lather ? Indeed, malter pried, lays-George,Meldnzededa ccfcent was n't counted, ntilher is roars,then who can declare your generation. The pried, at thisanfwer, wculd (land the argument no longer, but clofed thewindow in great hade, wh’dc the king, and all who knew theprieii to be a foundling, were like tofph’t their files laughing;fo George went off with his coals, and the pned became morehumble than he was, formerly, for he thought, that everybody knew who he was, when the coalman knew fo well.One night after this, an Englifh ’fquire, who profefled tohe better verfed in poetry than George, laid a wager withanother gentleman, five guineas again!! one, that Georgecouiu not metre the fird words he would fay to him m themorning, w he n newly awaked out of his deep ; fo the gen¬tleman went the night before, and told George the dory,gnd bade him be on his guard, for in the morning they wou dcertainly come, and that right early. At midnight iind youtvill, Gys George, I’ll order my fervant to let you in. So theEngtilu ’fquire fat up ail night confer, ing with his mends,whether to put a high verfe to him, or mean and fimplewords, thinking that George would be fitting up alt nighf,meditating on an answer ; fo they all agreed, that mean andfimple words he would not be thinking on, and have no nn-fwer provided forfuch. Then away they came in the morn¬ing very early, with fevers! gentlemen in company to hearthe dimfion. George’s firvaut opened the door accordingto'his mafter’a orders. The ’fquire entered the tootn firit,sed wakened George out of hio fieep, then fiid,Rife up you madman, and put on your clothes*To which George anfwered,O thou haft loft thy wad, man, for I am none of thofe.!The En^lifli ’fquire confeffed he was fairly beat, and wouldI match him with no move. Then another gentleman wouldhold five guineas, that he would give him a word or line,;that he could not metre at the firftanfwer ; and to anfwer; it diretftly ns foon ag he had done fpeaking ; but George or¬dered him firft to table the money, and then to proceed,i which he did in all hafte ; and laid as follows:My belly rumbl’d, and then I fartedGeorge gripping to the money, anfwered,A fool and his money is foon parted.' Then they all cried out, he was faidy 'icat, and what1 George had faid, was ■ evlly true ; but he never would layij any more wagers concerning poetry.After this George g">t a letter from abifnop, telling him,I that he v/as coming to vifit him, an 1 take dinner with him8 in his lodging: George fent an atifw r, tia^t he would waiti upon his lordfhip at the day appointed ; but well did George; know, it was not for any love he bad unto him, he wagi coming to vifit him, but to fpy fairlies } therefore he thoughtI he (liould give him fometh'nrr to talk about So George: fent "bis fervant to a bookfeller’s fhop to buy a dozen of: fmall pamphlets, about a halfpenny a piece ; fuch as a groit’sworth of wit for a penny, the hiltoiy of the king and thecobler, and fuch pieces as theft* ; taking all his own booksaway, and putting the pamphlets in their place, which heprgfented to the bifhop, when he aftetd for a fight of hislibrary. What, fays the bifhop, have you no mare booksbut theft h No more, fays George, but my bible ; juft nomore. O ! faye the bilhop, i wonder bow you can citherfpeak plain or write a pei left ftnfence, when you have noother books than theft. O ! fays.George, do you think thatI am a clergyman, to borrow other mep’s ftrmons to beau,tify my works: 'no, no, not 1 ; all that 1 write I dite, l me.dilate out of my own brain This check concerning borrow,ing put the bsftiop in a cold fweai, yet he concealed bis paf.fiou. Then George called to his fervant, if dinner was rea.dy yet ? to which he anfwered, Come, mailer, come, thepot is on the boil, get out the meal poke : then George c; useinto the room where his ftrvant was, and ftt the bn: >p ?,tthe oac fide of the fire, and fat down on the other ijlrrfelf,( n ) ,while his fervant made a great bawl full cf milk brofe, antifetthem between the biihap and George ; then George de-firedhis lorddaip to alk a blefling to what they were to re¬ceive, the biibop did not know what he meapcd. by a blef-fing, it not being ufual f; r the En Ihh to do To, a deed atGeorge what it was ? but George took up a great r-ani hottifpoon, and put ;it iw the bifho.j’a hand, laying, There it ismy lord. What, fays the hi (hop, call you tiiat a blefling ?we call thatafpoon. O my lord; lays Geo,'ge, it ia r e bellblefling you can afit, if you do not come t mpty Well, laysthe bilhop, ana how'do ycu call that Teal led meal? faysGeorge, we call it Scots brofe. O 1 faid the bilhop, I can¬not eat it. O ! fays he, the thing we cannot eat we lup, mylord, finceyouare in a Scotfmaii’s houfe, vou ncalt paitakeof a Seotflnan’s victuals. Then fays the bifliop, 1 alwaysthought the Scots lived vv ll till now j I would not be aScotfman for the world. O, fa id George, il a Sco^man livebut twenty years, and get but nineteen years meat, he can¬not be badly off. Wh it, rot badly off, and want a year’svictuals ? faid the bilhop ; upon my word of honour, if Iwanted one days victuals, Td be lure to die the next. O !fays George, we-drink water when we cannot do better, andthat puts us in remembrance of wealth ; fora dilh of con¬tentment is good cheer. Then, faid the hilltop, I’ll drinkwater too i. it be good for the memory. Ay do, laid George,and you’ll remember me when you do fo. Now, after din-der, the bifliop took his leave of George, and deflred himnext day to come and dine wigh Iritn.PART V.EXT day, George, according to his promife, went to thebilhopis lodging ; but no fopner did the bifliop lecGeorge, tban he laltued him with thefe words ;Your fervant, niafler wife man,And yet you have no books ;How can one have knowledge,That no one inftrucTs ?George anfwered,Your fervant, mafter biihop,Your falutation’s good :Your knowledge is in yoyr library,While other’s is in their hood.Now, after a fumptuous dinner, the bilhop taok Georgeinto his library, Ih-wing him a great quantity of books;which George praifed very much, and among the reft..+ . ( 2> ^vman o’d Hebcew BiS’c, which George taking up, a flee d atthe bifhop what book it was ? the bifiiop looking a*- it veryf!ncere!y» fatd he could not tell. Why then do you keepa book, you don’t knee the name of ? It may hr the beakof black, art. No, I don’t think that, 'aid the bilhop, butcan you L-.il what it i? ? Yes, fays George, it is the Bit le, thebell book for a bifhop I know, if he hfd eyts to fee the m-fide of it. Sabe oefired George to read a piece of i- : butwhen l-.e did, he coif Id riot underftaed it; therefore, he dofired him to explain it : which fenterree he did as follows,Uriah ix. r 9. “ For the leader; of this people caufe them toerr : and they that are l“d of them, are deltroved.” T «which George added, This is the blind leading the blind. Sotaking his leave of the bill.op, he parted with him, fayingthefe words :Good night, had mailer bifhop.Of hooks you have great ilore ;Yet cannot read the half of them ;Then what ufe a^e they for ?Many of the clergymen in England defifed greatly to bein company with Georoe, becaufe of his comical am' w tryexpreiSons ; fo George hanpeneu one night to be called intoa company, where there were two bilhope, as aKo a pr eitwho wanted to be iicenfed by them. One of the biftdjjs afk-ed George, why the people in Scotlsnd did not love biih-ops f Becaufe, fays Geoige, they are hke old beggars, ad¬vanced to be rulers over barrow men, ft li iYirucbiiig themin things they kno w not t'ntmfelves, oe’ering '.h'un to c^r.ry ftonts to the builders, which they will no: receive, andwhich they themfejves had never power to move ; the Scotahaving knowledge of this, hate to fee the bifho-s have greatlordships for ihei; ignorance, and .he poor labourer havelittle or nothing lor th"ir toil One of the bifhops lookingat George, wuh an angry countenance, anBvefM, faying.You bcot mull be made a bifhop yourfel , and we bifho, «made pridts,' and that will ferve vv*!l for your turn. No,ko, faid George, that will not do ; for if I be m ide a bifhop,T‘i have no I roken bilhops to ferve as prieiis under mr-, hrthey are fucB bad rraftrra they’ll become the word o( allfervavts. At this the two bifhops left the room in a greatpaflion, leaving George and the young prielt only bv them-Now, now, lays George, this proves the bilhups toiffdves.( 26 )be but hireling, snd not true (hcpfierds, pointing to theyoung prieft, you fee they are fle i for their own fafety andthey have left you a lamb, before the mouth of tne a fox,and who knows but I may worry vou ! Run, run, too,mailer fhcep, fays George, and if you have eyes guide themtwo blind fliepherds dr'wn ft a hr., and over ditches, but I amafraid you’ll tumble all in a ditch together- This raifedfuel) an indignation in the bifliops’ breaftc, that they defirtdyiio more of George’s company or ccnverfation.One time after this. George being in the country abouttwenty miles ditlant from London, and on his way home¬ward', came up after him a fine gilded coach, which Georgebeing informed belonged to the biflmp of Canterbury, andW's going to London for his lurdfhip ; George addrefl’es hirr-felf to the coachman, for tc have a paffage with him in thecoach to London ; fo he bargai-.cd with the coachman fortwo dofltirs to carry him to the Bell inn on Lbndcn bridge ;the one he gave him in hand, as he entered the coach door,and the other he was to give him as foon as ever he wouldfee hipi come out at the coach door ; fo away the coachmandri yes for Loudon in all hafte ; in which time George wrotethe following MOT I O :Here ths the biflrop pf Canterbury,Who at the fehoolr. ilifdain’d to tarry.Far better (biff'd at games than preaching, *Aftho' he lives bv others teaching.Blind leaders of the blind indst«d ;"I is blind and lame w ho chariots need,f.ix brutes with eyes this brute doth carry,! mean the bifhep c,f Canterhury.My feet being lame. 1 gave a dollar,To be drove in ftate like you a fcholar ;For which, nryfell I do abhor;fhame caus’d me make another door.Tht-fe lines George battered upon the infide of the ccsc H,?nd when he came within a mile of London, took a kn fe?and cut a great hole in the pack fide of the coat h, where hecam# out; afid to make bis promife good to the coachman,' t•.1 he va to give him tbt other dollar bs foon as e-'er helaw him cp v e out at the coech door. The poor coachmandrove on ti’J he came to the forefaid inn, where he alightedand opened toe door to let out his p.aOenger ; but feting thecoach cm; ty, 3rd a great-ole in the back fide of it, he cried©lit. he believed he had had the devil in bu coach, and that,he had taken away tht backfrdcofit withhitn 1’he peopleof the inn came ah flocking,about to'fec v. hat was dene, a«d( 27 . ).i then perceiving tfee Hues on t!ie iofide of the cpach, whichlithe brflwp came and r.‘ad h mfeU, they all concltide4. it to| be done by George, but could make nothing of it; for the•jbilhop fatd,!© purfue him might make it woife.but no better.George waa invited one day by a great lawyewto comei and fee a new building which he had latdly built of fine free-{tone and marble He defiret G:orge to guela what it wasbuilt with; George an-wrrs, Do you think that I do notknow wbac it is built with ? No, you do not, fays the law¬yer ; Yes, I ^o, fays George, it cannot ftand long, for ma¬lice and hatred is th:‘ mortar of it, and the ftones are the: heads of fcolifh people, poiifhed over with-ihe tongue of anIafs What, fays thedavvycr, do you compare me to an afs ?O ! Or, don’t you remtinder that an -fs was made an advo-cate, and fpokeagainil Balaam. The lawyer to this wouldgive no aufwtr, but took good night of George-Three merchants, pedlars fas they proiefled to be) cameI with a pack of goods, to put a trick upon a widow woman,« who kept an inn on the highway fide ; after they had drunkt very hearty, they defired the Woman to lay up the packt! fecurely, and charged her flricdly, before witaeffes, to deliver:j it to none of them, unlefs they came altogether for it again.I And injtbont three weeks'thereafter, two of them returnedi and defined cue woman to give them the prrk ; telling her,i that the other man was gone to fuch ari ir with another pack,where they were all to meet; and that they were fellow-travellers, conjunft in trade, and how they had all a right tuthe pack alike ; whereupon the poor firr.pie Woman, notdreading any further lurro, gave them the pack. So in afew days thereafter, the other man comes and demands toepack ; the hendd Woman told him plainly, that the othertwo men had been the e befoie, and get it away ; then hebegan to demon ft rate to the woman, what great danger fhewas in, and forthwith raifed a procefs againft her by law,which coft the poor woman a vail of money to defend, asthe plea continued more t|han two bul! years ; and a greatcourt being one day to fit'upon the pioccfr to decide it,which would undoubtedly have been done in favour of thepurfuer, the proof being to clear, and the woman herfelf notdenying what the bargain wa~whea fhe got the pack to keep.The poor Woman being in great ftraits, her purfe beingturned empty, and her attorney told her plainly, as ]»ermoney was done, he cOu’J no longer defend her; the Wo*( ,3 )roan once more plucked up her heart, and went lo Londonto employ a flew attorney to fpcak for her ; hut for want ofgold, fte could get nope to undertake it. George being in !r houfe where he ireard the poor vVoman making a mourn- ;ful complaint to one of her attornit?, who gave her no com¬fort nor fatiflfach'on ; for when fhe toid him, Hie had no mo¬ney to fpend, or give in defence of it, the attorney went a- , sway and would hear no more of the Woman's gfirvoiigcomplaint, which made George to laugh very hearthy, whilethe poor widow fat weeping like one didrafted. Poor w o¬man, fays George, you need not think that man will fptaka word for you, or any elfe, unlefs y‘ou had brought him apurfe of gold to kiO'e his tongue ; but as I have got a f hemeof the matter, you may go home, and have patience untilthe time come ; and then my life for your?, poor woman,that I ihali fend you'an attorney, who wid do your bufinefafor nothing. He gave the poor woman more courage thi n iany flip bad fpoken w ith in London ; for every one to!u tier,that sll the attornies in the world could not free her Soaccordingly at the day appointed, George oreiTed tii'rfelflike an attorney with his gown, and every thing as he hadreally been fo. The court being fenced, and the proccfsread over, expences and the value of the pa^k, having amounted to above feven hundred pounds, was ordered tobe put in decreet againit the poor Widow, which every One•was bemoaning, but could give her no relief. Now Gtort;ekept himfeit fiilent, hearing them all with great patience,until the sery nick or time, he thought pioprr to add refsbimfelf to tne judges as folioweth. My lurds, judges andgentlemen of this honourable Court and company, I havecome from London, gratis, out of pure pity, lo fpcak aword or two in favour of this poor woman, who hath ex-haufied all her m'-ans in defence of a falfe aceulation charg.cd again ft her, and. now when her money is gone, her fpeak-ers a-e dunib, and I fee none to plead the caufe of this poorWidow. Now, when fentence is upon the tapis of beingpronounced rg' inft her, I earneilly defire this court to mo¬dify and drop theexpences altogether, it is enough w'henthe poor Woman has the pac* to pay ; for you all knowthe woman was no way enriched by it, when the other mengot it away. Then the purfuer’s attorney made anfwrer asfollows. Sir, I would have thought that you, who havecome fro^i London; and proftfles to be a doftor of law.( 29 ) ,lould know better tilings: know ye not, that he who gainsie plea gains his expenses as well as thefiim, or he whatii will. Yes, it mult and fhall be fo, faid the judgea. Then,|id George, This is ail I want; which f.*t the whole Courtil-lavghing, thinking he wa« a fool, and become an adver-firy to the poor woman. Give over you-r fport, gentlemen,i tys George, I have not done yet —My lords, judges, you’llicar me in this, if the poor Woman made a bargain withI ris merchant, and t^ie other two who vrs with him, ler to• aep that pack fifety, and to deliver it to none oftnem, un-II they v ere all three prefer.:; new, let that man, who istere at the time, go r.nd feck the other two, and they Hull■ve their pack, for'fhe has the pack late enough ; but flieI ill keep by her firll bargain, bo i refer to you Judges andjaatlemen, if this poor Yvomo be not in the right. ‘'hisiade the judges look, one to another, and the whole Courtith one voice, declared the Woman to be iu the tight, andrdcrud the purfuer to go and feek his two comp inions. No,|o fays Creorge, the poor Woman muff hid. have her tx-tices, cr fecurity for it. Then the judge cauled tile pur¬er to be arrdled at the bar, until the Wear,an got fatisfac-on for ail her trouble and expenecs So George, returnedLondon unknown, but for ap advocate, whole fame wasread over all England.; which can fed many who had law-pits to fearch through London for him, but could neverad the advocate who La.l gain.'J the Widow’s la *-pfca.George hc;ng one day iu the country, end coming thro’■ village, there came a.gre.it big mad if! dog and gripped hirnthe leg. until the blood fobowed his long teeth ; George,ith one ftroke oi his cane carne tiwi his eyes, v.ntil lie .eiiwn and died upon the Ipo:; ’us well lor thee, fays George,bat I killed thee before thou p* alt brought to juiUvt, tor10U hadll certainly been hanged for what thou had done,id thy mailer feverely lined for keeping thee. The owner| the dog hearing-George fay lo, went off without fpcakingjjword to George, for fear it had t ecu fowo drunken fellows one day fell a-! citing one anotherl.ie fireets of J.onoon, v.Inch cauftd a great crovcd ofrople throng together to fee what it was ; a uylor being atorkuoin a high garrtl, about three or lour tiorics liigf,d he hearing the nolle in the ilreet, looked over the uineo wit could not welt Lc them ; lie began to fbretch hlhifc f,a long neck until he fell dovva out of the window.f 3° )acd alighted on an oi l m- n, who was walking on the (Irtet;the poor taylor was more afraid than hurt, but the man hefell on died direfUy. liis frn ctufed the taylor to be apprthended, and tried tor th- murder o! lis father; the jurycould n ;t bring it in as wilful murder, neither could theyaltotrether free the taylor , the jury gave it over to the judges,and the judges to the king : the kfng afited George’s advice.in tin’s hard matter. Why, fays George, I’ll give you myopinion in a minute ; you muft caute the fay!or to {laud onthe llrett, in the fame place where the old ge itlenian wsaf1wlien he was ki'led by the ‘aylor. and then let the old gen¬tleman’s fon, the tavlor’s adversary, go up to tht windswtfrom v hence the taylor fell, and jump down, and fo kill t!ie|tayior, as he did his father ; tor 1 can make no more of it.You fee it was a great .mercy for the taylor he had the oldgentleman be ow him, elfe he had been killed on the Ipot ;and that it was the old gentleman’s lot or misfortune to die'there. The taylor’s adverfary hearing this f. ntence pait, he*would not venture to jump over the window, and lo thetaylor gat clear off.PARVI.^.EORGE being one night in company with fome Englilhno b-men in preience of tlu king, they began to demon-flrate inch a fine plate as England wat, both for beautifulbuildings and fruitful field* : one gent’eman faid, he knewa place in England, thougn they iiioula ciop the grafs even lwith the ground at night, an ’ lay down a crown on it be-i-for a hundred Witreffes, and againft to morrow you would!not know where to find it. That may leem very ftrange toifome, fays George, but it is no myltery to me, knowing, *thete would be enough o' them who faw thd crown-piece; ,laid down, ready enough to come and take it up before to¬morrow. But, fays George, 1 know a place in the weft 08 ■Scotland, where, if you’ll tether a horfe at night, againft the;next meriting you will not fee him. ,What a pox will takehim away ? lays the Euglilhman. Only fuch people, faylGeorge, as will take away your uowp-picee. O ! lays thdEngliih nobleman you know wV.at 1 mean 1 h: n, fay?George, you t .!k much of towns you have in England, Iknow three towns in poor Scotland, fo'- properties you havt ■none fuch. Pray, fays the gentleman,, whrt are theft pro tpertres ? Why, tj*vs Geo-gr, I know one town where ther.arc.? h’a wheretbert, ( 31 )e fifty dniw-brldges in it; another to^n where, thos a mtnrnita-nur:!er, treafon, or owes never io much n.oney} ifrum> to that town, anH fetn in below a flair, no laws novftice can harm him The nooleman ofFered immeclately0ak-? a hundred pounds, that th re was nofuch towns inuiapc, befiJes in Scoti icd. They defired George to tellt the names of theie towns, for they would find him out,d know whether he was a liar or not. So he told theirfmes, and two men were lent to Scotland to feeTnem : theft was Duddingftone, nesr Edinburgh, w iere they oame.;d aficed for the bone bridges there $ the people fhewedsiem itepe almoft between every doer, of the fculh of iheep-mda, which they ufed aa ftepping ftones. The freen 1 wasi little country village between Stirling and Perth, calleduchtcrardocb, where there is a large ftrand which runs| rough the middle of -the town', and almoft at every doorere is a long Hick or (lone hid over the (Irand, where ;pon'iey pa£i to their oppefite neighbours, and "when a floodfme, they would lit., their woo len b'ir’gen, in cafe theyauld be taken away, and thefe they called their draw brid-j;s. The third was a village near Cambufloarron, which theyAfs through from one end to the other, but there was not.iijftair in it all; fo they returned to England, and told whatlimner of bone and draw-bridges they were ; and how therei is not a ftair ia all that place, therefore no man could pua!| below it.Now George beinj; old, and highly advance 1 in rears :riding his natural ftrangth and !V:te of health daily decaying• petitioned king James to let him return to Scot Lin'd, forvifit his friends, and Ian 1 ot his nativity ; which he meftHingly granted, (net thinking hisdelign was never tore-■n.) Jor George had a great defire to refign hie foul and* h in that place of the world, where he received them ;that his body and bones might be hdd among lira accei-’-s, which was counted a great honour in former arp-i| So accordingly George came to the par fh of Tuchanan,i the weft of Scotlaad, where he vifited ait his friendn andjatrfms before his death, durmg which time the kingfentferal meSages to him to return in ail the hafte he cbu!c! •; he abfolutely refufed, td.ing run , that he would neverHim again: w^bich grieved the king very much to. hearjn exptefj hrmfelf in that m-ntitr. After thi , he kingJt hiraa letter, tlm. ferimg him very fliarply, if hedid not. bear in London in. the fpace of twenty days, hs would• . . f 32 ) . , .fenc! Ii’8 iyon h^raL’s vv.ih a party, who won!.! bring bun t|Xrondon, whether he would or sot. Unto which, as an p.t.Ifiver. George lent him a famous letter of admonition, boanent the government of his Jt-’ngdonia, and the well be in Jof his foul, vhich can fed "the king weep vey bitterly, whejhe read it over, with the foi owing v.-rfe :My hprour’d liege, and fovereiga k'ng.Of your hoafiing great, [ c:re»d nothing tOr. yoiir feud and favour 1’il itiirly venture :Ehr that day 1’il be where few kings will en'er.y/AtD ENTERTAINING JESTS.oNE, afked a painter, how lie could paint fitch pretty fccajin his piffures, and yet get fuch homeiv children ? 13acatiie, faicf'he, I make the fii ft by day light, and the othiiff the dark.Ncountryman firving his ground, two fmart f< Hows ri.ing^hat way, one of them caifed to him with an inElent airWei!, honeft fellow, faid he, it is your Sufmefs to low, bir.we reap the fruits of your labour. To which the countryman replied, ’tis very likely you mar, for I am fowing heurpTwo 0)tcor/l fcholprs meeting on the road w’th a Yorkfliire holUer, they fell to bantering him, rind faid to the felllow, that they would prove him to be a horfe or an afsWell, faid the hoiller, and lean prove yourfaddle to be tmule. Cried one of them, how can th?.t>e ? Beraufe, failthe horJer, it is fomethlng between a herfe an ! an afs.A beggar aik’ng alms under the name of a pc or Icholara gentleman, to whom he applied himfelf, asking himqneflion in iatin. The fellow' linking his head, iai he di-not underftaxid him. Why, Cys t!ie gentleman, d ■! not yolav you was a poor fcho!ar ? Yes, replied the c'iier, a porone indeefir, far l do not under ft and one word at hit'When his late mnjeflv, in coming from Holland, happeneto meet with a viol nt Ilona st fea, the captain of the yacbciied to the chapla n. In five minutes, doctor, we (hallwith the Lord- . The Lord forbid, aufwered the doftor.A gentleman having lent for his carpenters ferventknotk a nail or two in his fludy ; the fedow, after he !i;don?, fcratched his ears, and laid, he hoped the gentlem*would give him fomething' to make him drink. Make ycdrink, fay 8 the gentleman, the'e’« a pickled herring for yoand■1 ifhat wont make you drink, I’ll giveyou another,F 1 N I ~