T H EI ' ^I Drunkard’s Confolation,ON THEALE BEING RAISED.To wrhich are added,/The ELFCTION ; or, the Defer!ptioaof a Coaiicion WfATHfcll COCK.t The TWO LOYAL L OVERS.OLD ENGLAND TURNED NEW.fciB E A U T I F U L NANCY.ii *GLASGOW,i : Oiitcu by J, & M. Robertfon, Saltmarket^ iSci.. /11THED It U N SARD'S CONSOLATION,ON THEALE BEING RAISED./t T a bcufc of greatTams for a pipe and a pot,X A Where fame are fo fcolifh to fpt nd all they’veA meeting was held on a weighty affair, (got,And Timothy Smith was fet in rhe chair.CHORUS,Welfdcne Timothy, drink away Timothy,Off with the Ik’uot and call for mere.My fi lends I’ve a piece of cad news for to tell.Concerning malt liquor which you love fo well,They’ve rais’d it to live petoce a quart I declare.At a town call’d Loufh in L:ncclnff>ire.Chorus. Well done Pimothy, etc.Vve juft now been thinking, fince ale is fo dear,V.> muff leave it off, and drink only fmall beer,But I love to be ir^rrv, akho’ I am poor,S-o genrifttatn ^rirsk, for I muft have tome more.Chorus Wei! done t imothy, etc.My fcatrle" and friend Til enjoy while T l;ve,There’s nothing co e-srh fc.ch pfeafure doth give,Tor' what you are thinking 1 care not a fly,Sq'reach me fhe liquor 1 gfow ■very dry.v Chorus. Weil done fimethy, etc.In what you’ve faid you may chance to be wrong,Suppofing your c-ilh wiU not ho'.1 out fo long,Tour Iriends I’m perfuaded wtill quickly tvrmtai!,And none of the landladies latv? you with ale.Chorus. Well done Tirpotky, c:c*Indeed broft.tr drunkard, you fay very right.You fliaii hear how rhe landlady fervM me la-ft night,I was bonny merry, (he came in great tjafte,But reach me the liquor, I jjiuU have a tatte.-Chorus. Well done Timothy, etc.She came in great hade, brought me a long fcore,Which l could not pay, fo was til ru’d c$tof door.With ale an* vexation my brain turned loand,Bat I’ll drink to forgetjhe ilf treatment l,found.Chorus. Vdeli done Timothy, etc.The iandladiei could not appear as they do,If it v,’ere not my friends for fuch drinkers as you.Their pride is upheld by fuch drunkard’s pence,Here’s wifhiag a!i drunkards a little .mere ferile,C iprus Well done Timothy, etc.Since ale is advanc'd, as 1 told yeu before.And times are fo bad, we mult all give it o’er.W e mult give o’er dr inking, pray mind what Tve (kid.For we that have families fcarce can ^thread.Chorus. Well done Timothy, etc.But fhail we give over for ever and aye,Or limit the time to a year and a day,Perhaps you would have it a ftill {hotter fpacc,b# Pil drink your healths till you fettle the cafe.Chorus 'Veil done Timothy, etc.That time is too long to be held.to fma'l beer,I think you may venture to leave out cnia yt^r,And then, brother drunkards, I’ll ftrire to rsfraiu.Not a year and a day, but*tiil we meet again.Chorus. Well done Timothy, etc!But here comes my wife, her reproaches I dread.You fee ihe’s quite naked, her children want Trend,So pay you my {hot when the recJPmpg you call,For I did get drunk foi the good of you all. etc.The ELJvCnON; or, the DESCRY? HON of aCOALITION WEATHER COCK.NOt far from fit. James’s there Jives it is true,A man whofe tranf cfioiis I mean to review,Hs“s a tunhelly’d linnsr, he v/esss buff and biue.. With a down, down, down, np an* down,Down d:fry, derry upanidowo, down derry doiffR*At the huftitigs this Ofstor fet up bis tradeThere for liberty roar’d, A the conve rts he made,liefemfcTJ the followers of Tyler and Cade.Wiift a down, down, down, vp arid dovsn, etc.To them he addrefs’d moil elaborate fpeeches,rL hey cltu.’g to the Man of the People like leeches,One band wav’d bats, t’other held up their breeches."With a dowrn. down, flows., up arid down, etc.’flout his homily eft he lutrangu’cl the throng,But it ne’er thick to elofe ro’s heart as his tongue,And pur up to auction had fold fot a fong"With a down, down, down, up and uown, etc.About principles t hisgreat ftatefman would bawl,By his principles tland, by his principles fall,Int’reft. kick’d down :heprineiple,ftat08 man and all.With a down, down, down, up arid down, etc.With his honour no mortal could ever keep pace,This hour ’twas at Brooks, the next at Duke’s place,Now’tis mortgag’d for’.ores, then pledg’d foraplace.With a down, down, down, up and down, ere.At lift a deep project w?.c hatch’d in his ffrull,Nothing Ids than the rights of electors to gud.But a Horn for a brcakfatl m tde Charley look dull.With a down, down, down, up and down, etc.For Horn Took to Weilmiiiiters firmly attach’d,•j Charles with difappoimment hi^ head did fcratch,i mult fijtlHs & cut, fer he’s met with his match,! With z down, down, down, up and down, etc.I Now’tisdl^mondcutdiamondjhil] thehouroffeur,’ Tis F-s h Lord Hood, & no F-x now they roar,, Took itlhes poor Charles,be was neVr cur fo before.1 With a do wn, down, down, op ana down, etc.For the right of election now let it be toM,i Hadn’t Took Itcpr forward tne ekelors were fold,,-So electors arofc, for Horn l ook go and poll.f Wfth a down, down, down, up and down, etc.He’s true hearted and open, you fee by his look,I To arraign the deceivers he never wi'l brook,[ So long life to the King, and fuccefs to Horn Took.1 With a down, down, down, up and down,I Down derry, Jerry up and down, down deny down.T f I E T W O L O Y A L L O V E R S.ji 'VT’OtT beautiful darnfels that've felt Cupids dart,!: J. Liil to me a young maid wounded to the heart,I For the lofs of my Henry a young failor is he,lit was my cruel father that forc’d him from me.^ You fwert little warblers that inhabit the groves,Come iiflftn a moment, while I ftng of my love,' Hov bldi and how happy in ymr ftate you be,Whilft I arn lamenting for my Henry.In innocent love thofe couple did agree,And vow'd, as the turtle dove, conflant to be.Rut when that her father he came for to know.He vow’d that to fea this young Henry mould go.' [ 6 ]Then by the prefs-mafters had him preflaway,"Which made this young damftl in tears for to fay,Dear honoured father, your pardon I cr^ve,No one on this earth but young Henry i’ii have.Then her cruel father unto her did/ay,What mean you, bafe creature, come tell me i pray,From nr»y prefence for ever you baniih’d dial! be.If you marry with one of fo met a a degree.The (hip had net fail’d more than 2 months to fea, ’Wh-;: a mod dreadful tlcfrm there h?oi>’ned to be,Ei.cn man to’s ftation, ihip and lives tor to laye, '*When Henry Sr £x more were urownM in the waves.'Moon ?.£'this young maiden tbisfad news did hear,:Her heart was o’erwheirnM with for row and care,"In a few days after frse took to her bed,When tiro learned Doctors gave her over for dead. |An! wbenthatlhefoutid her death heur was nigh,Thole words ii;t ciiu f<:> to lio* friciiJ -mat were by,• My heart it is'broke for the yddth I admireThun (he A retch dcu herhgnds, &in!lar.'tly expir’d.When unto the grave this fair maid was convey’d,.Number's did att.epd to lee’er in the ground laid/ -bus maidens in white her pal: they did hear, ;And from many an eye there dropt a is.it tear.OLD ENGLAND TURNED NEW.TUNE—THE ROASl'BSEF OF OLD FNGLAN'd.NOW Britons attend, while I give you a fong, ^The wordcareallright, tho’rbenation’swrongjT he he^da youTi allow are grown very headflrong. :O r e rosvful cafe of Old England,And ’tis poor England s forrowful cafe.F J J r, Before this fjooc! p;rtion wss putt up WTt’i pride,!i'be poor of Old England well fa'isfyM,jut rhe good of the nation is now thrown afide.O the fonowfaf c?.fe cf Old England,And ’tis p*nr England’s forrowfui cafe.Tn thedeysof myrtrannum *twasGatTerSDame,i Then echo refounded the trumpet of fame,ijdut Madam, and Sir, are become a new narar.O the forrowftil cafe of Old England, etc.WherigentSepen walk’d ina plain moaning drefs,fife relieve each their neighbours that wereindiiVrefs,!0! j England was fill’d then with much happinefs.But How 'ris not fo with Old England, etc.When Brifor.s united, in plenty they roll’d,‘They valu’d their produce fatrqVi tnefre than gold,To our enemies no*v otsr provifions arc foldO the forrowfui cafe of Old England, etc.To RngMfhmen fare it mud be a fad grief,or to Vs deb-rr’d from the tafle of roaft,beef,fay Providence quickly fend us fome r- fief.O the forrowfui cafe of Oid England, etc.The dlfcrefb cf the n.tion is (hocking to hear,revifion is got fo remarkably dear,England, where now is thy Loaded good cheer,O the forrowfui caie of Oid England, etc.While EngHfhrnen cry for their liberty fweet,In poverty n >w ih(-y walk thro’ the ilrt'-t,And bv fereigne-s n arly are trode under feet.O the forrewful cafe cf Old England, ere.Out fiietp and on: oxen they find o’er-io Franc?,Ci caufe they do teach cur f or ladies to dance,But Old Nick may take them &. th-.ir fine cemplai-O the forrowfui cafe,’etc. (ur.ee.r b i•• When tired of \v\sr, then they pntcli up a pesccjProvillons they’ve rofe, and the tsxea encr :«fe.And no body knows when thvy (hall be releas’d.O the forrowfui cafe of Old England, etc.BEAUTIFUL NANCY.* Up Was down in a valley, by the fide of a grove,l Bva clear chryfta! fountain I faw my true love,The birds were a (inging, the lam'r; were at play,On a bsnk of fweet rielcts ilte carelefiy lay.When lirft I beheld her my heart was furpnz’d,P»v the bloom of hjr cheeks, and fserfparkling eyes;Young Cupid was cruel, he directed bis dart,Fcr the fake of ray 'fancy (he wounded my heart. *Nov? hire in this torment I ftill do remain,Likea thief that's fentenc’d.V’m bound in love’schain.No peace night or day can my heart ever find,The thoughts of my Nancy fo trouble my mind.Bring me pen, ink, and paper, all for to write,To my beauti ul Nancy, my jov and delight,She’s ebarmin?, flic’s beautiful, fee's pretty & fair,There’s none in the country can with her compare.Small birds on the branches are bleft with a mate,The dove is a mourning for my haplefs fate,The lark with her fine notes mourning the air,Brings me no glad tidings from my dcareft dear.Farevrel deareft Nancy, fince we muff parted be,1 11 away to the mountains where none (hall me fee,,The rocks mail hide me, & bring me to my grave,So farewel Nancy, fince I cannot you have.    ■— »»«!■—WTJy* ST gSie3.ffSrcw»CTaa»*»»- ■' 11 -   Glsfgow, Printed by J. & M. Robtrtfon, Saltmarket. i3r.t.