‘ Elegant Extract*CONTAININGAn awful instance of disobedience?Parents—Divisions, how to heal—i1 I vsteries—Composition—AbilitiesAction of men—Advice—Aftecta-jn—Genius—Happiness—Novelty■ —Openness—Prudence—Party spirit- Cheerfulness in Religion.t11 “ Ahi Sir, had I-attended to your admonition, I would'' “ nut have been in this awful situation to-day, Cage fAYR;Printed by D. Macarter A Co,1817^ OF SCOTLAND * ,ELEGANT EXTRACTSDISOBEDIENCE TO PARENTS.A strik ing example of disobedience to parents orcurreisome years ago in the south of England. A respectable Ifamily had two sons whom they endeavoured to bring upin the fear of God. For a time they made a promising ap¬pearance, and bade fair for becoming a blessing to their pa¬rents % but alas ! the love of company and of pleasure ledthem to disregard their parents’ admonitions, aiul the reli¬gious example with wliich they were favoured, and by de¬grees not only to forsake tlie sanctuary of Gon, but soon 1after, their father’s house ; and forgetting their situation inlife, to go and enter tliemselves on board a ship of war. Afriend in London wrote to a respectable clergyman in1’ h, where it was suspected they had gone, to ender.- Hvour to find them out, and if possible, to persuade them to jreturn. With some difficulty he did find them, carried them jto his house, shewed them all kindness, remonstrated with jthem, and pointed out the great evil and impropriety oftheir sinful and undutiful conduct to their parents. Ob¬serving one of them considerably affected, be addres-edhim, and said, James, are you still determined to go tosea ? or will you go home and prove a comfort to yotirfriends ? Yes, 1 will, said he. lie then turned round tothe other, and said, William, w ill you also go home? No,1 will not. Sir, 1 wont be kept under by my father, andmade to go to church, and say tny prayers by my motherus I have been; I wish .to enjoy mj self and see the worlda little. The clergyman again remonstrated with him, andpointed out the judgment), of God that frequently attend¬ed such undtrtji'ul conduct; but the young man remainedobstinate and resolute. Finding no impression could be _made on him. he said, It appears, my young friend, younrc determined to pursue your own evil course, but I re¬quest you will remember what I now say to you, andIDefenj) t:rox it yoch sins win. rtsn you orr. lie re»|tired with scornful look, and nothing was heard of him foryevoral years ; till one night, after the same clergyman hadgone to rest, a sailor came to his gate with a very urgent,message from a young man vrth r sentence of death, onlboard a ship at S d. who wish’d most anxiously to seejhim. He took bis staff in his hand and went down thro'lthe fleet, and soon perceived, by the melancholy signal, the#ship in which the unfortunate youth was to suffer. Ile Jwent on board, and was received with much politeness by|the captain, who told him he would desire tire youth to bejbrought up to bis cabin, where be might have a better o]x|pertunity of speaking with him than in the duirgeonwhcrefbe lay. In. ,a short time the rattling of chairs, and heavygroans, Indicated his iijlpr'odt^ ; and no sooner did he he-bold the countenance of his former monitor than be ex-ck-iinctb -Ah !. yen are the-per on 1 want; had 1 aUtiidei 1to your aJrrouIiion';, I would not have been in this awfulsituation to-day. He was so worn down and emaciated,that the clergyman did not recognize him, but asked whatwas his inducement to send for him, as he had no recollec¬tion of him, “ Ah!” teplied the young "man, “ do you notremember the two unfortunate youths, that left their pa¬rents’house and entered on board the navy, and to whomyou shewed so much kindness. Ah ! do you not recollect,Sir, the one you used so many entreaties with to return,but who would not, and to whom you said, that the judg¬ments of Gonwould follow him, and sooner, or later hissins would find him Oct. They have done so, Sir, for Iam that unfortunate youth. I have been led from sin tosin, till I have Committed that for which, in a few days, Imustgive up my life. Oh 1 Sir, if no respite can he pro¬cured for me, pray, do pray. I beseech you, to God for myimmortal soul, that it parish not !”DIVISIONS, HOW TO HE A L.IT is to be Ifimented, that such are the ef¬fects of our depravity, that when disputes arebegun in a religious society, they seldom sub¬side till the minister or the people eventuallypait ; however, as it sometimes happens thatbreaches are healed, the following are some ofthe most likely methods for that desireable end :1st. Each party should forbear abusing oneanother. Nothing continues and inflames dis-sentions amongst professors of religion more,than aspersing one another’s character, orspeaking with contempt of each other ; one steptherefore to quench the flame of contentionis to call no,ill names, but to treat each otherwith civihty, if we cannot with great respect.2dly. Let each party seek divine directionby prayer. As the Lord loves all his church¬es, and can bring down pride and party spirit,there is the greatest reason to believe that hewill do it, when fervent and repeated prayersare put up to him for that purpose.3dly. Let mutual private interviews ta’place. It is too common to make r ’disputes public, before the princijon both sides have coolly conve4matters, and endeavoured to setde them pri¬vately ; but'as soon as possibly this should besincerely and repeatedly done, and with windsopen to -conviction.4thly. If the above method does not suc¬ceed, refer the matter to two or three very sen¬sible and pious arbitrators. If the matters inquestion cannot be settled privately, let two ormore be chosen to decide it ; there should heone or two very impartial pious persons chosenon each side i it would be best for them to beof the same congregation, and not related toeither party.5thly. If some of the leading persons on ei¬ther side are contending for power, it is notlijeely that these excellent methods, or indeedany means whatever, will make up differences;but, if the principal persons on both sides arereally pious, and there are only misunderstand¬ings between them, then there is good reasonto hope that such means as the above, withthe divine blessing, will in time produce a re¬conciliation.J1VSTERIES.AS there is a foolisn wisdom, so there is awise ignorance in not prying into God's ark,not inquiring into things not revealed. Iwould gladly know all that I need, and all that1 may know, but I leave God’s secrets to him¬self; it is happy for me, that God makes me cthis court, though not of his council.2. A mystery, as applied to religion, meanssomething that is true and sacred, though irt■>}“ degree secret; this in the strictest semeifoan-siioiii tinchimed, ,Aj5is applicable to almost all things in revelation,and indeed even the nature and perfections ofGod; but this word is commonly applicableto the Trinity, the incarnation of Christ, thereconciliation of an offended God through theatonement of the Saviour, and the resurectionand re-union of the same body and soul to¬gether ; these are great and precious truths,but they are undoubtedly very mysterious, how¬ever as they are clearly revealed, it is as much 'our duty to believe them, as to love God andobey him.3. Even the gospel, which in many respectsis so clear to a believer, is expressly called amystery in many places in the New Testament,because it is so deep and hidden from the car¬nal; thus it is called the mystery of God, themystery of Christ, the mystery of faith, andit is expressly called the mystery of the gos-| Pel*4. The doctrine of the Trinity, though aglorious truth, is deeply mysterious, and indeedis the leading mystery in the Christian religion,and those who arrogantly attempt to accommo¬date it to the grasp of human reason, have bysuch an attempt given up the very thing wecontend for. Uishop Brown remarks, “ We] are not required to believe any mystery in thei matter, but only in the manner; tiius for in- *stance, the mystery in this doctrine does notlie in the matter, or fact, that there are three! -in one,-but in the manner, or how to account! for and explain it: we must believe the fact,i because it is plainly revealed, but as to themanner, wherein the whole mystery lies, as itis not revealed, we have nothing to do withit.”Hat*ItiAUTHORS.1{£ who purposes to be an author must 'firstbe a student. The, most engaging powers ofan author, are to make new good things fami¬liar and familiar things to appear as new ; eitherto teach what is not known or to recommendknown truths by adorning them either to let new-light in upon the mind, or to vary the dress, andsituation of common objects, so as to give themfresh grace, more powerful attractio n, or tospread sych flowers over the regions throughv Inch the, intellect has already passed, as maytempt it to return and take a second view- ofthings, hastily passed over or negligently re¬garded.2. Writers of extensive comprehension havemade identical remarks, upon topics perhapsvery remote from the subject matter mention¬ed in the, title page. These, remarks are some¬times more valuable- than formal treatises, andhe that collects these under proper: heads, isvery laudably employed; for though he exertno great abilities in the work, he facilitates theprogress of others, and by making that easy ofattainment, which is already written, may givesome vigorousminds leisure for new7 thoughtsand original designs.3. Some authors on political or temporarysubjects may be read only once, but othersmay be read many times, respecting which wemay say, as Elijah said to his servant, go againseven times.4-. If I could choose my readers, I wouldnot wish the most ignorant or the most learnedto read my works : not life former, for theycould not do me justice; and not the latter,because I could not sufficiently please thane.IMany authors, and especially poets, have notgot much for their compositions ; and severalhave died very poor, as Otway, Dryden,Goldsmith, &c.COMPOSITION.THE first requisite for a good style is tothink closely on the subject, till we obtain afull and distinct view of what we are to clothein words; and then that which we conceiveclearly and feel strongly, we shall naturally ex¬press with property and warmth.2. The next thing is a proper use of the bestwriters ; this is requisite in order to form a justtaste in style, and to supply with a full stockof words en every subject; however, we mustguard against .a servile imitation of any author,but make whatever we read our own, other¬wise our style will be stiff and awkward.3. The next thing is to adapt our style tothe subject, or to the hearers ; in that whichis very solemn, very few ornaments are neces¬sary, but in what is descriptive or pathetic,many more may be used.4. The last requisite to form a good style,is,frequent-use and practice ; it is not a fewyears that will form an excellent style, but ex¬ercise and habit for many years ; but after all,we should be more desirous to attain a fund of- solid, ingenious, and useful thoughts, than todress up common and trivial sentiments in ele¬gant language.5. The chief thing requisite to a good style,is to be a perfect master of the language we■ write in, and especially to know the force and•propriety of words, and the beauties of expres¬sion. No rule of critical observations willever bring any to a justgtyje, who does notunderstand, and feel his subject, and has nota natural way of writing, but they will improvea good genius, when nature leads the way,provided he is not too scrupulous, and is nota slave to rules, that will bring on a stiffnessand affectation, which are opposite to a goodstyle.6. A composition is then good, when thematter naturally rises out of the subject, whenthe thoughts are agreeable to the matter, andthe expressions suitable to the thoughts, whenthere is no inconsistency from the beginningto the end, but you can follow tire whole bythe order of its parts, without being confused,sometimes going back, and where the end windsup the whole, and makes every intelligent tea--der to understand the subject.-ABILITIES.HE who can produce more and better thanothers, has talents; and he who can producesomething quite new, has genius. Abilitiesmake a good man better, and a bad man worse.2. Merit is sometimes a* obstacle to fortuneand that because of envy and fear. Envy inthose who have not the same talents, and fearin such as are established, lest they should besupplanted, if they advance or encourage aman who has growing abilities.3. A man of moderate abilities advancesslowly, but surely ; whereas, those of extraor¬dinary talents frequently overshoot themselves9snd like wheels, by moving too fast, injurethemselves.4. Men of abilities should be prudent anddiligent,, otherwise by imprudence and idle¬ness, they may, like Otway and Savage, be¬come not only disesteerned, and an incumbranceto society, but a burden to themselves.5. To mistake our talents, and overrate ourabilities, is always ridiculous, and sometimesdangerous; very few excel in many things,and scarcely one in all things.6. It is a sign of extraordinary merit, whenthose who envy it, are forced to praise it. Theart of setting off moderate abilities steals esteem,and often gains more reputation than real me¬rit. The world often rewards the appearanceof merit, more than merit itself. Merit hasits season as well as fruit has. We should notjudge of a man’s abilities by his great quali¬ties, but by the use he makes of them.—The desire of appearing to be persons of abi¬lity, sometimes prevents us being so ; and asto those who have abilities, it requires no smalldegree of judgment when to conceal them The height of ability consists in a thoroughknowledge of the real value of things, and ofthe genius of.the age in which we live.ACTIONS.THINGS may he seen differently, and dif.ferently shewn ; but actions are visible, thoughmotives are secret. 'Die splendour of our ac¬tions may be tarnished, by too often speakingof them. Undertake actions deliberately, buthaving undertaken them go through-roAllowing the performance of an honour¬able action to be- attended with trouble, tnetrouble is soon over, but the honour is dur¬able ; whereas, should pleasure wait on thecommision of what is dishonourable the plea*sure is short, but the dishonour is lasting.3. Sacrifices to virtue, though they are fre¬quently difficult to perform, are always grate¬ful in remembrance. No virtuous person everrepented of doing a good action.d. Many great actions, as well as great caus¬es, owe their success to Providence, or to na¬ture ; but the general, the admiral, the states*man, and the physician, frequently run awaywith the applause.5. As much of the comfort of our actionsdepends on the motives by which we are influ¬enced, it is prudent to be cool and deliberatein entering upon any new concern; it requirestime and caution to know our own motives-.Many Christians have bitter remembrance ofimprudent and rash actions, which a little moretime and prayer to God, might have prevent¬ed.6. We should examine our actions, and di¬rect them in such a manner, that every thingwe do may turn to account. A good inten¬tion will not justify a bad action, though itmay extenuate its malignity ; but a good in¬tention, joined to a good action, gives it a pro¬per force and efficacy. We should aim at alaudable end also in all our actions, either theglory of God, the gOod of mankind, or the be¬nefit of our souls ; thus we should continuallyact, and imitate the conduct of those holymen, who are said in scripture to have walked,with God.11ADVICE.ADVISE not what is most pleasant, butwhat is best. The chief rule to be observedin giving advice, is to preserve it pure from allmixture of interest or vanity ; the most un¬pleasant thing is to reprove ; but he who en¬deavours only the good of him whom he re¬proves, will always have either the satisfactionof obtaining or deserving kindness ; if he suc¬ceeds, he benefits his friend, and if he fails, hehas at least the consciousness that he suffersfor only doing well.2. Advice is seldom welcome, and those whowant it most, like it the least. Nothing is lesssincere than the manner of asking and givingadvice, he who asks advice of his friend, seemsto have a deference for his opinion, thoughfrequently he only wishes to have Ids own ap¬proved'of; on the contrary, he who gives it,repays the confidence reposed in him by aseeming disinterested zeal, though perhaps heonly aims at his interest or reputation.3. As you should never trust alone to yourreason in religion, without the assistance ofrevelation ; so you should'never trust alone toyour understandings if a friend can assist you.Advice should drop on us as dew, and not fallon us as a hasty and Heavy shower : advicewanls a wise reprover, and an obedient ear.4. With some persons, nothing is receivedwith so much reluctance as advice ; as there¬fore it requires so much skill to make it agree¬able, many devices have been used to make’this bitter potion palatable; for this purpose,-some have conveyed their instructions in thebast chosen words, others in the most hanno-A**'liious numbera, some in points of wit, and o-tbers in short proverbs. Think those morefaithful, who reprove thee for thy faults, thanthose who praise thee for thy virtues.•%«*%*%%**«* ^AFFECTATION.AFFECTATION is to be distinguishedfrom hypocrisy, being the art of counterfeitingthose qualities which we might with innocenceand safety be known to want ; therefore hy¬pocrisy is criminal, but affectation only ridi¬culous. He who gives himself airs of impor¬tance, exhibits the credentials of impotence.Affectation sooner discovers what we are, thanmakes known what we would appear to be,2. We are never made so ridiculous by tirewant of qualities, as by those we affect to have-If affectation is so unbecoming in common life,it is more so in religion ; if it be so disgustfulin the parlour, it is much more so in the pul¬pit. Affectation is certain deformity; byforn*-ing themselves on fantastic models, the young^begin with being ridiculous, and often end inbeing vicious. No man is ridiculous for seem¬ing what he is, but only for affecting to hesomething more, either as to what respects themind or the body.3. Affectation proceeds either from pride orhypocrisy ; for as vanity puts on false charac¬ters, in order to purchase applause ; so hypo¬crisy sets us on an endeavour to avoid censureby concealing our vices, under an appearancecf their opposite virtues.4. It is- possible that beauty in a woman*ISand Teaming in a man, may become almost bid,by the force of affectation, and even when wesee some degrees of it in men of worth anddistinction, we cannot but lament it; thus, forinstance, it is sometimes seen at the bar withyoung barristers, nay, it too often ascends the *pulpit, and by making the preacher appear ri¬diculous, it prevents much good being done.5. When Cicero consulted the oracle atDelphos, concerning what course of studieshe should pursue, the answer was, “ follow na¬ture." If every one would do this, affectationwould almost be unknown. Affectation is notonly a folly, but repugnant to nature, and op¬posite to the designs of Providence ; and there¬fore it is certainly a crime. Nature indeed hassometimes made a fool, but a coxcomb is al¬ways of a man’s own making.GENIUS*.GENIUS is used to signify the talent whichwe receive from nature, whereby we excel nany one tiling ; thus w-e speak of a genie *ormathematics, for poetry, painting, or any me¬chanical employment. Genius cannot be ac¬quired by art and' study, though it may begreatly improved by them.. Genius is a higherfaculty than taste, for it is not uncommon tomeet with persons who have an excellent tastein music, poetry, painting, or oratory, or alltogether ; but to find one who is an excellentperformer in these is rather. iare, and shews agenius.,2. As to an universal genius, or one who ex¬cels in all or many arts and sciences, is veryuncommon indeed. Tlio?e.who attempt to be-great in many professions or sciences, are notlikely to excel in any : it is therefore best, es¬pecially for youth, to find out and pursue whatnature points out, and then to bind the mindonly to one or two objects ; this wifi have thefairest prospect of success, for the rays mustconverge to a point in order to glow intensely.3 Genius consists in an assemblage of ima¬ginations, judgment, and taste, but chiefly inthe imagination. As to original genius, it maybe defined a native and radical power of dis¬covering something new or uncommon on eve¬ry subject on which it employs its faculties.—Most enlightened nations can boast of manyauthors of great abilities, and whose workshave been very acceptable, but there are veryfew who have possessed original genius. Menof original genius are generally remarkable for’some singularities ami extremes; their excur¬sions, like those of an eagle, are towering anddevious, or as the course of a comet, blazingand irregular, and their errors, as well its theirexcellencies, are generally inimitable.4. A great genius is rather an obstacle to*fortune, because, wherever a man of real ge¬nius goes, he raises envy in some, and fear inothers ; envy in those who cannot attain to thelike merit, and fear in such as are already es¬tablished, who may he apprehensive that theyshall be supplanted : if thev should advance,or suffer to be advanced, a man of greater.-genius than themselves.6ISHAPPINESS.TIE is happy who is cheerful though posses¬sing but little ; he is unhappy who is troubledthhough amidst much wealth- The happinesstf the body consists hi health, that of the mindn knowledge. To be wise and virtuous will! nake us happy.2. Health and peace, a moderate fortune,-md a few select friends, sum up the chief arti-;les of temporal felicity. If you would judgevhether a man is happy, you must not think of(its property, and appearance, but inquire whe¬ther he is contented, and habitually cheerful..[f the feelings of pleasure are more numerous] n high life, so are also those of pain. If great¬ness flatters our vanity, it multiplies our dangers!.nd desires. If the middle rank, or the poor,.re confined to a more narrow compass, yetheir wants are fewer, and they have more real■njoyments. With respect to spiritual happi-Iess, the grace of God, and the forgiveness ofin, are the chief articles of it ; here we are atcertainty, for the son of God has removed theeil whicli covered true bliss, and has taughtlie way which leads to eternal and completelappiness.! 3. There are three reasons why many do not.;:njoy true happiness:I 1st. Because they expect too much here be-*ow ; whoever said, I am completely happy ?—f we have religion and wealth, perhaps wef vant health of body ; if we even possess that,ome enemies or relations may trouble us ; all:his is designed to teach us, that this world isnot our home.2diy. Looking up with envy at those above16as; we fancy others must be more happy be¬cause they are more rich, healthy, or have few¬er enemies. We should think of those belowus, who are in poor-houses, or prisons, that areeither in extreme poverty, or blind, lame, dumb,insane, or under public disgrace.tidly. Because we will not be satisfied withsimplicity. Let us consider how few are burreal wants, if we have our liberty, and ourhealth, we have the principal requisites of natura! happinfss; and if besides this, we have:grace and the influences of the Spirit, we maybe called happy persona.NOVELTY.AS Providence has made the human soul nlways impatient for novelty, and struggling forsomething yet unenjoyed, with unwearied, pro¬gression, the world seems to be eminentlyadapt-ed to this disposition of the mind ; it is formedto raise expectations by constant vicissitudes,,and to obviate satiety by perpetual change.2. Wherever we turn our eyes, we find some'thing to revive our curiosity, and engage our at- •tention. In the dusk of the morning we watchthe rising of the sun, and we see the day diversify the clouds, and open new prospects to its 1gradual advance. After a few hours, the shadesbegin to lengthen and the light declines, till ::the sky is resigned to a multitude of shiningorbs different from each other in magnitudeand splendour.3. The earth varies its appearance as wemove upon it; the woods offer their shades, andthe neids tlidr. harvests, the bills flatter with an-1-7I, :icte«sive view, aod the valiies invite with shel-er, fragrance, and flowers.4. Not only nature but art continually affordsis a pleasing variety, and gratifies the love of; lovelty ; thus in many places, the many ingeni¬ous and elegant inventions and improvementsof curious artists, afford great delight to thosevho h.ave knowledge and taste for the respec-> ive arts, sciences, and manufactures.5. But although the love of novelty should)B encouraged, so far as it conduces to socialjenefit and improvement, yet when it producesinsteadiness to necessary business, or fostersi desultory and fickle disposition, it is certain-y reprehensible.6. Novelty has charms that our minds canardly withstand ; the most valuable persons orhings, if they have for a long time appearedmongst us, do not make that impression whichhey did at first, or which very inferior personsr things that are quite new do. Perhaps it is>art of our natural depravity that we .shouldbus unjustly slight what is common thoughruly excellent; or perhaps it is permitted tohew us that this is an imperfect state, andve shall never be satisfied till we come toleaven.7 Novelty in religion should not be indulged,ueb as wandering after new preachers, and;eeii)g new laces; this starves the mind amihe devotion, while it feeds curiosity. Manyire so fond of novelty, that they would almostcave a paradise to wander in a desart so as toaijoy it.OPENNESS.I LO W lovely and how happy is au open and• c>jngenuous bdiaviour. An honest unsuspiciousdisposition diffuses a serenity over life, like thatof a fine day, when no cloud conceals the bluesky, nor a blast ruffles the stillness of the air.But a crafty and designing bosom is all tumultand darkness, and may be said to resemble amisty and disordered atmosphere in the com¬fortless climate of the poor Highlander: theone raises a man almost to the rank of an angelof light, the other sinks him to a level with thepowers of darkness ; the one constitutes almosta terrestrial heaven in tire breast, but the otherdeforms and debases it, till it becomes like, thebottomless pit.2 A free and ingenuous min'd furnishes aman with the courage and generosity of thelion ; but a sly, crafty person, has only the piti¬ful cunning of a fox. The open disposition is $truly consistent, having a pleasant outside, andthe.inside the.same; so that the man is nearly jtransparent; but • the crafty person, while he 1puts on an affected smile, or speaks in an ..as¬sumed, soft, and affectionate manner, has aheart as dark and as Ton las the abysses whichconstitute the abodes of the evil spirits. Theopen and honest disposition has no need of dis¬guise, and carries on no plots; but the crafty,are continually plotting disguises, and layingschemes, and no combination of conspirators, ,or confederacy, of thieves, can be carried onwith more artifice.Q. 'An open anil ingenuous disposition is not tronly beautiful and most conducive to privatehappiness, but is productive of many virtuesfor the good of society; because it recom¬mends sincerity and integrity, and also pro-19; motes mutual confidence, friendship, and bene-j volence : too often, that which personates it, is' a refined dissimulation, whose end is to procureconfidence.4. It is true,1 indeed,: that this amiable dis¬position is not agreeable to the world, as it willj create enemies, and perhaps, prevent our risingi in life; but notwithstanding this, as dissimula¬tion, cunning, and deceit, are all contrary toIf religion, truth, and virtue ; we should constant-j ly hate and avoid them ; we should have cour¬age enough to avow our sentiments, and to leti our countenances and our tongue be the he-1 raids of our hearts ; this, good persons will bepleased with, and the bad we shall not seek toplease.PRUDENCE.PRUDENCE excels most of the other vir¬tues as far as the sight of our eyes does the o-ther senses. Prudence is an universal virtue,and enters into the composition of almost allthe rest, for without this, love is indiscreet,:fortitude weak, zeal blind, and knowledge al-, most useless.‘2. Discretion, or prudence, is not only verycommendable, but it is a virtue ; it has to dewith our spiritual as well ns temporal affairs,and shews itself not only in the words hot int.b circumstances of action, and is like an un-.der agent of Providence, to guide and directus in all the concerns of life. There are man'more shining qualities of the mind, but none.souseful as prudence; it is this which “give.-\value to all the rest, which sets them at workin their proper times and places, and turns themto the advantage of the person who is possess¬ed of them , without it learning is pedantry,wit impertinence, and even virtue itself lookslike weakness.3. Discretion, not only makes a man themaster of his own parts, but of other men’s ;the discreet man finds out the talents of thosehe converses with, and knows how to makeuse of them. Accordingly, if we look intocommunities and divisions of men, we may ob¬serve that it is the prudent man, not the witty,nor the learned, who guides conversation andgoverns society ; therefore it plainly appears,that if a man has all other talents, and wantsdiscretion, he will be of no great use to theworld ; but, if he has this single virtue, andonly a moderate share of others, he may betruly and respectable and useful.4*. Many mistake cunning or craftiness forprudence and discretion, but if we comparethem, we shall see a great difference ; as forinstance, cunning has only selfish actions, andsticks at nothing to make them succeed, butdiscretion points out the noblest ends, and onlyuses laudable methods to attain .them. Dis¬cretion is generally found in persons of goodunderstanding and great piety, and the more itis discovered the greater authority it gives tothe persons w’ho possess it. In short, cunningis only the mimic of discretion, and can onlypass for a short time, and chiefly upon per¬sons of weak understanding, or little expe¬rience in the world.5. True discretion is highly useful in reli¬gion ; it teaches when to speak, and when tobe silent, to avoid party spirit, to be candid21ihnu moderate, and to shun> every appearancei >F evil : in short, it is indispensably necessary• dr all ranks, upon all occasions, and at alli),icnes to the end of life.i 6. Economy, or frugality, is closely con-t meted with prudence, and must he observeda every pursuit, action and undertaking—lumbers have been brought into bad circum-s •lances and many troubles from small neglects,Ills well as from great errors in material affairs.JPeople are apt to think lightly of shillings and‘ pence, forgetting that they are the constituentijjparts of a pound, till a deficiency in the greatrticle shews them their mistake, convincesStem by dear-bought experience of this truth,hat they might have learned from a little at-enticn, viz. that great sums are made up ofmall, and that therefore he that does not re-ard small things may fall by little and little.7. It is very true that we are to avoid soluch frugality as leads to covetousness, butt the same time we must by prudence avoid[prodigality. Our frugality must he in pro¬portion to our income, family, and situation inlife; in general we may truly say, that a littleis enough for all the necessities and innocentdelights in nature, and it may be justly assert¬ed, that without economy, even a large estatemay soon be wasted.8. Prudence has two offices, viz. to informthe understanding, and to regulate the will ;she determines both on maxims of speculationand practice, and keeps the mind ujmn its guardI against prejudice and precipitation. Thoughfortune seems to be an universal mistress, vet./'22lier we are surrounded’by all other blessings.Prudence does not only shew itself in words,but in all the circumstances of life, and is likeam under agent of Providence, to guide and di¬rect us in all our concerns. There are manymore shining qualities in the mind of man, butthere is none so useful as prudence ; it is thiswhich gives a value to all the rest, which setsthem to work in their proper times and places, !and turns them to advantage. Without pru¬dence, cunning is pedantry, zeal rashness, and;,even virtue weak and almost useless. »PARTY SPIRIT.PARTY spirit, is a disposition not easilydefi ned; it is a monstrous composition of manyhad qualities. Sometimes it is ignorance,jwhich prevents us from receiving some impor- 'tant truths ; anil sometimes it is arrogancewhich rashly maintains whatever it lias onceadvanced, and .chiefly because it is too mor- >tifying to yield, aud to say, “ I am wrong, Imistook.”2. A party spirit, is that disposition whichenvenoms and contracts so many hearts, sepa¬rates so many lamilies, divides so many socie-:ties, and undermines real religion ; party spirit, 'tiot only incapacitates for sweet communion Iwith God, but by encouraging pride, arid ma- fny evil passions it frequently excites to maiicti 'and barbarity, and the most bitter persecu¬tions.3. Party-work, is the madness of many, forthe gain of a few. There never was .%, y par¬ty, faction, scot, or cabal whatsoever, in whichthe most ignorant were cot the most vio’entvfor a bee is not a busier animal than a block¬head- However such instruments are necessaryto politicians, and perhaps it may be with statesas with cloek-s, which must have some deadweights hanging at them, to keep and regulatethe motion of the finer and more useful parts.He knows very little of mankind, who expectsby any reasoning or facts whatever, to con-■vince a determined party-man.i. It is an observation founded on experi¬ence, that the host things when corrupted be¬come the worst. This is strictly applicable toreligion, which is the best) thing for enjoyment,but the worst thing when perverted by partyspirit. It is certain that every degree of reveal¬ed truth is important, and freedom of inquiryshould he encouraged ; hut when any divide ordisturb churches, or hate all but those of theirown way of thinking, whatever reason theypretend to give for their conduct, while theirmotives are bad, they are nothing but partizansin religion ; and even if their motives and inten¬tions be good, yet if they persecute, or withauger in their hearts wilfTv misrepresent thes ntiments or conduct of any to do a personalinjury, in defending their own tenets, they un¬doubtedly act in a patty spirit.CHEERFULNESS IN RELIGION.IN real religion, there is a great tendency tocheerfulness ; and such a frame of mind. Is notonlj the most lovely, but strongly recommendsit.2. Those who recommend religion as gloomy,■are like spies who brought a false report ofCu-2*naan, which discouraged the people; but thosewho shew us the joy and cheerfulness that at¬tend real goodness, are like Caleb and Joshua,who brought a true report, and also the clusterof grapes, by which they invite others into thepleasant and fruitful country.3. It is true, indeed, that some good personsare naturally gloomy, or perhaps have becomeso by great trials; but this is not owing to re¬ligion, but to their peculiar circumstances, 02■dispositions.4. Religion banishes all vicious and vulgarmirth and levity of behaviour; but in exchange,it is the perpetual source of real gladness ofheart; it cheers as well as composes the soulunder the severest troubles, and fills the mindwith a perpetual serenity and cheerfulness, aswell as an habitual inclination to please others.5. Ebeneaer Adams, a celebrated quaker ofPhiladelphia, on visiting a lady of rank, whomhe found six months after the death of her hus¬band, sitting on a sopha, covered with blackcloth, and in all the dignity of woe, approach¬ing her with great solemnity, and gently takingher by the hand, thus accosted her—“ So friend,I see thou hast not yetforgiven God Almighty.”This seasonable reproof had such an effect u-pon her, that she immediately had all her trap¬pings of grief destroyed, and weut about hernecessary business.F I N I S.