IBL.IND AliliAlV,A TAAEjFKOMy c. u> i^ Bn w sjr' ,>J0. > • .tKIKXKD i 01) XHB BOOK 2ErrK!f2"nO:II? 't- feilYDO^g OB 8C0I1I»HEKO’/lf x/riO»ri]/D /rr/y*-ad aio'.v grrt.gnaq '(qqed f>«B didntud o wl sgatiT-igtf jfedi notlaaTfo ^iatiT .age -nBm ,ti bailjotlbavi! bi.ri (jrii ioI ,qidgJluo.a '{fiB liifciji >i :r«ma fidyd bad ru fbne ; liljiig ew: tSasa ni yliub-gjiqab io caqod gnilfiji^s vtl .y iliwii no ylanobi ijgnc! baliat; /liabtiaJ naad be-! atieailliodj qriieyadj bnji. bagbalq ylfimaii.e gfi iIioti liarlj aidiodniiixo AM.AW.yldajt.'frTanl noTiTf/>ii,;-jy Yq'; •: orTT or coJaidlolitnood it vd rnadj lol qu baiolg ad Jdaini baqod3»d ,aanF.tnoi Jib )UK] nq eia« yadj ;auu.aonabivoi*]nifivi gi; // 3|Allan Bruck and Fanny Raeburn were inno respect remarkable among the simple inhabi¬tants of the village in which they were born. Theyboth bore a fair reputation in the parish, and theywere both beloved by their own friends and rela¬tions. He was sober, honest, active, and indus¬trious,— exemplary in the common duties of pri¬vate,—possessed of the humble virtues becominghis humble condition, and unstained by any ofthose gross vices that sometimes deform the char¬acter of the poor. She was modest, good tem¬pered, contented, and religious—and much iscontained in these four words. Beauty she wasnot thought to possess— nor did she attract atten¬tion ; but whatever charm resides in pure health,innocence of heart, and simplicity of manners, thatbelonged to Fanny Raeburn; while there wasnothing either about her face or figure to preventher seeming even beautiful in the eyes of a loverThese two humble and happy persons were be¬trothed in marriage. Their affection had insensi-blj grown without any courtship, for they had liveddaily in each others sight; and, undisturbed byjealously or rivalry, by agitating hopes or depres-singfears, their hearts hsd been tenderly united longbefore their troth was solemnly pledged , and theynow looked forward with a calm and rational satis¬faction to the happy years, which they liurnblyhoped might be stored up for them by a bountifulProvidence. Their lowe was without romance, butit was warm, tender and true; they were preparedby its strength to make any sacrifice for eachother’s sakes; and, had death taken away eitherof them before the wedding-day, the survivor mightnot perhaps have been clamorous in grief, or visitedthe grave of the departed with nightly lamenta¬tions, but not the less would that grief have beensinc^e, and not the less faithful would memoryhave been to all the images of the past.'to viib ^d bonifilsnu bne ,noitihnor> ahimuri - 1 1-lari1.) orlt mi fob • firm ? ierit ^ ■ •> iTheir marriage-day was fixed-—and Allan Brucehad rented a small cottage, with a garden slopingdown to the stream that cheered his native village.Thither, t’n about two months, he was to take hissweet and affectionate Fanny—she was to workwith her needle as before—and he in the fields.INe change was to take place in their lives, but afchgnge etf contentment to happiness; and if Godprolonged to them the possession of health, and5blessed them with children, they feared not tobring them decently up, and to afford sunshine andshelter to the living flowers that might come togladden their house. Such thoughts visited thesouls of the lovers,—and they were becomirgdearer aud dearer to one another every hour thatbrought them closer to their marriage-day.At this time Allan began to feel a slight dimnessin his sight, of which he did not take much notice,attributing it to some indisposition brought on bythe severity of his winter’s work. For he hadI toiled late and early, during all weathers, and ati every kind of labour, to gain a sum sufficient to[ furnish respectably his lowly dwelling, and also toarray his sweet bride in wedding-clothes of whichi she should not be ashamed. 1 he dimness, how¬ever, each succeeding day, darkened and deepen-i ed, till even his Fanny’s lace was indistinctly dis-| cerned by him, and he lost altogether the smilei which never failed to brighten it whenever he ap-; peared. Then he became sad and dispirited, fort the fear of blindness fell upon him, and he thoughtof his steps being led in his helplessness by theJ hand of a child. He prayed to God to avert thiscalamity from him—but if not, to bestow uponhim the virtue of resignation. He thought of the(different blind men whom he bad known, and asfar as he could know, they all seemed happy.That belief pacified his soul, when it was about togive way to a passionate despair; and every morn¬ing at sunrise when the fast advancing verdure ofspring seemed more dim and glimmering beforehis eyes, he felt his sou! more and more resignedto that final extinction of the day’s blessed light,which he knew must be his doom betore the earthwas covered with the flowers and fragrance ofJune.!•'- >:--riih trfgila b loot ot rnsj-orl rnili ■ o-cit 1 id; \i. It was as he had feared] and Allan Bruce wasnow stone-blind. Fanny’s voice had always beensweet to his ear, and now it was sweeter still whenheard in the darkness. Sweet had been the kisseswhich breathed from Fanny’s lips, while his eyesdelighted in their rosy freshness. But sweeterwere they now when they touched his eye lids, andhe felt upon his cheeks her fast trinkfing tears.She visited him in his father’s house, and led himwith her gently guiding hands into the adjacentfields, and down along the stream which he saidhe liked to hear murmuring by; and then theytalked together about themselves, and on theirknees prayed to God to counsel them what to doin their distress.init JiavB o) hid) t boYBtif ul! .bib!-, f; to bn. <!iiouii wolg'jd ot ,loii :i tod—a :d ii n'i MiuifdiivThese Meetings were always happy meetings tothem both, notwithstanding the many mournfulthoughts with which they were necessarily attend¬ed; but to Allan Bruce they yielded a supportthat did not forsake him in his hours of uncom¬panioned darkness. His love, which had formerlybeen joyful in the warmth of youth, and in thenear prospect of enjoyment, was now chastened bythe sad sense of his unfortunate condition, andrendered thereby a deep and devout emotionwhich had its comfort in its own unwitnessed pri¬vacy and imperishable truth. The tones of hisFanny’s voice were with him on his midnight bed,when his affliction was like to overcome his forti¬tude; and to know that hbwas still tenderly be¬loved by that gentle and innocent friend, was athought that gave light to darkness, and sufferedsleep to fall balmily on lids that shut up eyes al¬ready dark as in profoundest slumher. The meekfold of.ber pitying embrace was with him in thevague:uncertainty of his dreams; and often he sawlaces in his sleep beaming consolation upon him,that always assumed at last Fanny’s features, andas they grew more distinct, brightened up into aperfect likeness of his own faithful and disinterest-id maiden. He laydown with her image, becauseit was in his evening prayers; he rose up with herimage, or it came gliding in upon him, as he kneltdow n at his bed-side in the w arm beams of theunseen morning light. n • i;noo girl ihiw ,jhow girl Jr, yagad rmd 031)0 bed-ibt'03 brio ogs eiriTo , ni -ioo^nmn silt pi .saotiffioAllan and Fanny were children of poor parents;and when he became blind, they, and indeed alltheir friends and relations, set their faces against8marriage. This they did in kindness to themboth, for prudence is one of the best virtues of thepoor, and to indulge even the holiest affections ofour nature, seems to them to be sinful, if an afflic¬tion from God’s hand intimates that such unionwould lead to sorrow and distress. The samethoughts had taken possession of Allan’s own soul;and loving Fanny Raeburn, with a perfect affec¬tion, why should he wish her, in the bright andsunny days of her youthful prime, to becomechained to a Blind Man’s Steps, kept in constantpoverty tmd drudgery for his sake, and imprisonedin a lonesome hut, during the freedom of her age,and the joyfulness of nature ringing over the earth?“ It has pleased God.” said the blind man to him¬self, “ that our marriage should not be. LetFanny, if she chooses, some time or other, manyanother, and be happy.” And as the thoughtarose, he felt the bitterness of the cup, and wishedthat he might soon be in his grave.For, while his eyes were not thus dark, he sawmany things that gave him pleasure, besides hisFanny, well as he loved her; nor had his been anabsorbing passion, although most sincere. Hehad often been happy at his work, with his com¬panions, in the amusements of his age and condi¬tion, with the members of his own family, withoutthinking even of his dear Fanny Raeburn. Shewas not often, to be sure, entirely out of his9thoughts, for the consciousness of loving her, andof being beloved, accompanied his steps, althoughhe scarcely knew it, just as one who lives on alake side, or by the murmur of a stream, may feelthe brightness and the shadows of the one, andhear the constant music of the other, mingling asa remembrance or a dream with the impressions,thoughts, passions, and feelings of his ordinary hu¬man life. But now, what had been less pleasantor necessary to him all faded away, and he saw inhis darkness, one image only—Fanny Raeburn—he heard in his darkness one sound only—FannyRaeburn’s voice. Was she to smile in anotherman’s house ? Surely, that could not be; for hersmiles were his and to transfer them to another,seemed to him to be as impossible, as fora motherto forget her own children, and pour with equalfondness her smiles upon the face of another whobelonged not to her blood. Yet such transference,such forgetfulness, such sad change had been, thathe well knew, even in “the short and simple an-Inals of the poor,” which alone he had read ; andwho would blame, who would pity, who would re¬member the case of the deserted, and forsakenpoor Blind Man ?■Fanny Raeburn had always been a dutiful childand she listened to the arguments of her parentswith, a heavy but composed heart. She was wil¬ling to obey them in all things in which it was her!1 wobf10duty to obey—bul here she knew not what washer duty. To give up Allan Bruce was a thoughtfar worse to her than to give up life. It was tosuffer her heartstrings to he hourly torn up by theroots. If the two were willing to be married, whyshould any one else interfere ? If God had strick¬en Allan with. blindness after their marriage,would any one have counselled her to leavehim ? Or pitied her because she had to live withher own blind husband? Or would, the fear ofpoverty have benumbed her feelings ? Or ratherwould it not have given new alacrity to her hands,and new courage to her heart ? So she resolved,meekly and calmly, to tell Allan that she wouldbe his wife, and that she believed that such was, inspite of this affliction, the will of God.Ij'iipj ilji-w ijoq brio .noifafirb tr»o ioiI>S-i»1 ?MilfonBlo ootii orlt noqn golima led ssanbf oiAllan Bruce did not absent himself, in hisblindness, from the House of God. One Sabbath,after divine service, Fanny went up to him in thechurch-yard, and putting her arm in his, theywalked away together, seemingly as cheerful asthe rest of the congregation, only with somewhatslower and more cautious steps. They proceededalong the quiet meadowfields by the banks of thestream, and then across the smooth green braes,till they gently descended into a holm, and satdown together in a little green bower, which a fewhazels, mingling with one tall weeping birch, hadof themselves framed, a place where they had often11i met before Allan was blind, and where they had>i first spoken of wedded life. Fanny could havealmost wept to see the earth, and the sky, and thewhole day, so beautiful, now that Allan’s eyeswere dark but he whispered to her, that the smelli of the budding trees, and of the primroses that hei knew were near his feet, was pleasant indeed, andi that the singing of all the little birds made hisi heart dance within him—so Fanny sat beside her11 blind lover in serene happiness, and felt: i strengthened in her conviction that it was her| i duty to become his wife.nji lav—iiB-jd -(rti ot of; . It»Mu Jon si ji—iaohr 11“ Allan—I love you so entirely—that to seeyou happy is all that I desire on earth. Till Godmade you blind—Allan—1 knew not how my soulcould be knit unto yours—I knew not the lovethat was in my heart. To sit by you with mywork—to lead you out thus on pleasant Sabbaths—to take care that your feet do not stumble—and that nothing shall ever offer violence to yourface—to suffer no solitude to surround you—butthat you may know, in your darkness, that mineeyes, which God still permits to see, are alwaysupon you—for these ends* Allan, will I marry thee,my beloved—thou must not say nay—for Godwould not forgive me if I became not thy wife.’ ’And Fanny fell upon his neck and wept.gr.iv.'vS ruhi'Hkx;.':. ■ Ini id ad (bid// gstnh olidwgaoitfifot H .iitool i'jjtii lod aaztoed o«12There was something in the quiet tone of hervoice—something in the meek fold of her embrace—something in the long weeping kiss that she keptbreathing tenderly over his brow and eyes—thatjustified to the Blind Man his marriage with sucha woman. “ Let us be married, Fanny, on theday fixed before I lost my sight. Till now I knewnot fully either your heai t or my own—now I fearnothing. Would—my best friend—I could butsee thy sweet face for one single moment now—but that can never be !”—“ ill things are possibleto God—and although to human skill your case ishopeless—it is not utterly so to my heart—yet ifever it becomes so, Allan, then will I love theebetter even than ( do now, if indeed my heart can |contain more affection than that with which it now Iion wniil 1 —nfiliA—bnild uo^ ebsoiflevol adj Jon v/and 1—siuoy olmi Jind ad bluoa iym djiw uo'£ yd Jia oi .Jiaaii yen ni aow Judt jAllan Bruce and Fanny Raeburn were married.And although there was felt, byJthe most carelessheart, to be something sad and solemn in such nup¬tials, yet Allan made his marriage-dhy one of so¬ber cheerfulness in his native village., Fanny woreher white ribbands in the very way that used to bepleasant to Allan’s eyes; and blihdas he now was,these eyes kindled with a joyful smile, when beturned the clear sightless orbs towards his bride,and saw her within his soul arrayed in the simple |white dress which he heard all about him sayingso well became her sweet looks. Her relationsISand his own partook of the marriage feast in theircottage—there was the sound of music and dancingfeet on the little green plat at the foot of the gar¬den, by the river’s side—the bride’s youngest sister,who was henceforth to be an inmate of the house,remained when the party went away in the quietof the evening—and peace, contentment and love,folded their wings together over that humbledwelling.banurt luod tavo tudi has—oiguw Imoae lo'tsamit yen—woo ion boniqoi nail A .Inoouoc 01From that day Allan and his wife were perfectlyhappy—and they could not help wondering attheir former fears. There was, at once, a generaldetermination formed all. over the parish to dothem every benefit. Fanny, who had always beendistinguished for her skill and fancy as a seamstressbecame now quite the fashionable dress-maker ofthe village, and had more employment offered thanshe could accept. So that her industry alone wasmore than sufficient for all their present wants.But Allan, though blind, was not idle. He im¬mediately began to instruct himself in various de¬partments of a blind man’s work A loom waspurchased; and in a few weeks he was heard sing¬ing to the sound ofTiis fly-shuttle as merry as thebullfinch in the cage that hung at the low windowof his room. He was not long in finding out theway of platting rush-rugs and wicker-baskets—thefigures of all of which were soon, as it were, visi¬ble through his very fingers; and before six montlis14were over, Allan Bruce and his wife were said tobe getting rich, and a warm blessing broke fromevery heart upon them, and their virtuous andunrepining industry.,-mioi! aril Vi ci'niTini au ;<J oj * dAllan had always been fond of music, and hisvoice was the finest tenor in all the kirk. So hebegan in the evenings of winter to teach a schoolfor sacred music—and thus every hour was turnedto account. Allan repined not now—nay at timeshe felt as if his blindness were a blessing—for itforced him to trust to his own soul—to turn forcomfort to the best and purest human affections—and to see God always.■s.wDgichve :> *!! yoo ;» b - iii j-j 1 >1Whatever misgivings of mind Allan Brucemight have experienced—whatever faintings andsickenings and deadly swoons of dispair might haveovercome his heart,—it was not long before hewas a freedman from all his slavery. Hewas not immured, like many as worthy ashe, in an Asylum ; he wasi not> an' incum¬brance upon a poor father, sitting idle and in theway of others, beside an ill-fed. fire, and a scantyboard ; he was not forced to pace step by step a-long the lamp-lighted streets and squares of a city,forcing out beautiful music to gain a few pieces ofcoin from passers by entranced for a moment bysweet sounds plaintive or jocund; he was not a boy-15led beggar along the high-way under the sickeningsunshine or the chilling sleet, with an abject thatabjectly protruded with a cold heart for coldercharity;—but he was, although he humbly felt andacknowledged that he was in nothing more worthythan these, a man loaded with many blessings,warmed by a constant ingle, laughed round by aflock of joyful children, love-tended and love-light¬ed by a wife who was to him at once music andradiance,—while his house stood in the middle ofa village of which all the inhabitants were hisfriends, and of all whose hands the knock wasknown when it touched his door, and of all whosevoices the tone was felt when it kindly accostedhim in the wood, in the field, in the garden, by theriver’s side, hospitable board of a neighbour, or inthe Church-yard assemblage before entering intothe House of God.ovrn miov iforij rtotlv.'-jbcaid yi rr •liodl—kteMoet■ i Ii'i:):*i' ! -I, . i !■/■■ ' •; , ’•Thus did years pass along. Children were bornto them—lived—were healthy—and wellbehaved.A blessing rested upon them and all that belongedto them, and the name of “ Blind Allan” carriedwith it far and near an authority that could belongonly to virtue, piety, and faith tried by afflictionand found to stand fast.Ji;dt to ,bm!d %nbd lo auobanoons; a od imlj bins•gnoJ .wag oono j aid Jail; rratlogidf bed odTen years ago, when they married, Allan Bruceand Fanny Raeburn were among the poorest of16the poor, and had it pleased God to send sicknessamong them, hard had been their lot. But nowthey lived in a better house—with a larger garden—and a few fields, with two cows of their own—Allan had workmen under him, a basket-maker nowon a considerable scale—and his wife had her ap¬prentices too, the best dress-maker in all thecountry round. They were rich. Their childrenwere at school,—and all things, belonging both toouter and inner life, had prospered to their hearts’desire. Allan could walk about many familiarplaces unattended ; but that seldom happened, forwhile his children were at school he was engagedin his business ; and when they came home, therewas always a loving contest among them whoshould be allowed to take hold of their father’s handwhen he went out on his evening walk. Well didhe know the the tread of each loving creature’sfootstep—their very breath when their voices weresilent. One touch of a head as it danced past him,or remained motibnless by his side—one pressureof an arm upon his knee—one laugh from a cornerwas enough to tell him which of his children wasthere; and in the most confused noise and merri¬ment, his ear would have known if one romping imphad been away. So perfectly accustomed had helong been to his situation, that it might almost besaid that he was unconscious of being blind, or thathe had foigotten that his eyes once saw. Longhad Allan Bruce indeed been the happiest of theblind. jtvma tn*rw mudouH bna17It chanced at this time, that among a party whowere visiting his straw manufactory, theie was asurgeon celebrated for his skill in operations uponthe eye, who expressed an opinion that Allan’ssight might be at least partially restored, and offer¬ed not only to perform the operation, but if Allanwould reside for some weeks in Edinburgh, to seehim every day, till it was known whether his casewas or was not a hopeless one. Allan’s circum¬stances were now such as to make a few weeks, oreven months confinement of no importance to him;and thongh he said to his wife that he was averseto submit to an operation that might disturb thelong formed quiet and contentment of his mind byhopes never to be realized, yet those hopes of oncemore seeing Heaven’s dear light gradually remov¬ed all his repugnance. His eyes were couched,and when the bandages were removed and the softbroken light let in upon him, Allan Bruce was nolonger among the number of the blind.There was no uncontrollable burst of joy in thesoul of Allan Bruce when once more a communica¬tion was opened between it and the visible world.For he had learned lessons of humility and tem¬perance in all his emotions during ten years ofblindness, in which the hope of light was too faintto deserve the name. He was almost afraid to be¬lieve his sight was restored, Grateful to him wasits first uncertain and wavering glimmer, as aXQdraught of water to a wretch in a crowded dungeon,lint he new not whether it was to ripen into theperfect day, or gradually to fade back again intothe depth of his former darkness.■.Tofto bti-t ,b‘jTOt«9iylt. jaBul .te <d Igim 3iig:a.: II/-. t: iud gfyniif: ifjp fiiii oi v o Jon hoBut wlien his Fanny—she on whom he had soloved to look when she was a maiden in her teens,and who would not forsake him in the first miseryof that great affliction, but had been overjoyed tolink the sweet freedom of her prime to one sittingin perpetual dark—when she, now a staid andlovely matron, stood before him with a face palein bliss, and all drenched in the floodlike tears ofan unsupportable happiness—then truly did he feelvi hat a heaven it was to see ! \nd as he took herto his heart, he gentl y bent back her head, that hemight devour with his eyes that bening beautywhich had for so many years smiled upon him un¬beheld, and which now- that he had seen oncemore, he felt that he could even at that very mo¬ment die in peace.rn voffo Jtin.'d sldullo-ilficomj o.- « oiutiT■ ; «i. B.CiuC, ; .0 OUlU .1 , 1'. 'lo U.C,In came with soft steps, one after another, hisfive loving children, that for the first time theymight be seen by their Father. The girls advan¬ced timidly, with blushing cheeks and brightshining hair, while the boys went boldly up to hisside, and the eldest looking in the face, exclaimedwith a shout of joy, “Our Father sees !—our19Father sees !"—and then checking his rapture,burst into tears. Many a vision had Allan Bruceframed to himself of the face and figure of one andall of his children. One, he had been told, waslike himself—another the image of its mother—and Lucy, he understood, was a blended likenessof them both. But now he looked upon them withthe confused and bewildered joy of parental love,seeking to know and distinguish in the light , theseperate objects towards whom it yearned; and nottjll they spoke did lie know their Christian names.But soon, soon, did the sweet faces of all his child¬ren seem, to Ida eyes, to answer well, each in itsdift'erent loveliness, to the expression of the voicesso long familiar to his heart.• Idtnod ohbPleasant, too, no doubt, was that expansion ofI heart, that followed the sight of so many old friendsi and acquaintances, all of whom, familiar as he had1 long been with them in his darkness, one day’sI light now seemed to bring farther forward in hisi affection. They came towards him now withbrighter satisfaction—and the happines of his owni soul gave a kinder expression to their demeanour,; and represented them all as a host of human beingsi rejoicing in the joy of one single brother. Herew as a young man, who* when he saw him last, wasa little schoul-boy—here a man beginning to bebent with toil, and with a thoughtful aspect, whobad been own joyous and laughing fellow-labourers/20in field or at fair—here a man on whom, ten yearsbefore, he had shut his eyes in advanced but vig¬orous life, now sitting, with a white head and sup¬ported on a staff—all this change he knew before,but now he saw it; and there was thus a somewhatsad. but an interesting, delightful, and impressivecontrast and resemblance between the past andthe present, brought immediately before him bythe removal of a veil.1 Every face around him—every figure—was instructive as well as pleasant;and humble as his sphere of life was, and limitedits range, quite enough of chance and change wasnow submitted to his meditation, to give his char¬acter, which had long been thoughtful, a still moresolemn cast, and a temper of still more homelyand humble wisdom.Nor did all the addition to his happiness comefrom human life. Once more he saw the heavensand the earth. By men in his lowly condition, na¬ture is not looked on very often perhaps withpoetical eyes. But all the objects of nature arein themselves necessarily agreeable and delightful:and the very colours and forms he now saw fiiiledhis soul with bliss. Not for ten dark years had heseen a cloud, and now they were piled up likecastles in the summer heaven. Not for ten darkyears had he seen the vaulted sky, and there it wasnow bending majestically in its dark, deep, sereneazure, full of tendeiness, beauty, and power. Thegreen earth, with all its flowers, was now visiblebeneath his feet. A hundred gardens blossomed| —a hundred hedge rows ran across the meadowand up the sides of the hills—the dark grove ofsycamore, shading the village church on its mount,stood tinged with a glitter of yellow light—andfrom one extremity of the vi'lage to the other,calm, fair, and unwavering, the smoke from all itschimneys went up to heaven on the dewy morningair. He felt all this just by opening his eye-iida.And in his gratitude to God he blessed the thatchof ids own humble house, and the swallow s thati were twittering beneath its eaves.Such, perhaps, were some of the feelings w’hichM Allan Hruce experienced on being restored to sight.But faint and imperfect must be every picture ofn man’s inner soul. This, however, is true that Al¬ii lan Bruce now felt that his blindness had been to|| him, in many respects, a blessing. I t had touchedall hearts with kindness towards him and his wifea when they were poor—it had kept his feet withinl( the doors of his house, or w ithin the. gate of hisgarden, often when . they might otherwise have*1 wandered into less happy and innocent places—itij turned to him the sole undivided love of his sweet>a contented Banny—it gave to the filial tendernessin of his children something of fondest passion—andi! it taught him moderation in all thing.?, humility,•| reverence, and perfect resignation of the DivineWill. It may, therefore, be truly said; that whenthe blameless man once more lifted up his seeingex-es, in all things he beheld God.,jmjo<n fcli ii.i d'jiu: i j i • |j/ adj » njfuid* /noiosn.xSoon after this time, a small Nursery-gardenbetween Koslin and Lasswade,—a bank slopingdown gently to the Esk—was on sale, and AllanBruce was able to purchase it. Such an employ¬ment seemed peculiarly fitted for him, and alsocompatible with his other profession. He had ac¬quired, during his blindness, much useful informa¬tion from the readings of his xxife or children; andhaving been a gardener in his youth, among hismany other avocations, he had especially extendedhis knowledge respecting flowers, shrubs, aniltrees. Here hfe fo lows that healthy, p easant, andintelligent Occupation. Among his other assistantGardeners there is one man with a head white assnow, but a ruddy and cheerful countenance, who,from his self-importanc°, Seems to be the proprie- itor of the garden. This is Allan’s Father, wholives in a small cottaje adjoining—takes care of ,all the gardening" tools—and is master of tlie bee- jhive*. His old Mother, too, is sometimes seenweeding; but oftener with her grandchildren, whenin the evenings, after school, they are playing on 'the green plat by the Sun Dial, with flowers gar¬landed round their heads, or feeding thejitrge troutin the clear silvery well near the roots of the cel¬ebrated Pear Tree.23.f ig »i,l jiiiV/ jioiJBrrybgi »id a> .’iiov §nivi^ niA M T, C « O T K.-T«q 3fi .jnatnsveq aril min! oiii gnijlnls boifa-*e «irf er, buol feB ^ninmA» nsn 'boynurinn 37 tO 1 .iir^n^q blfjow ?.%au\ bol-riBsI—' Sour Milk Wholesale.(djjindmSl ni wb? oii oiarii rtiv ts\ ’o ’wb! aril 3 EfI It ISometime ago, the frolics of the HonourableMr made a great noise in the newspapers.The following records one of the most whimsicalacts of folly :—One morning, after having danced all night atan assembly, he sauntered out, with the Marquisof leaning on his arm ; and in crossing St.Andrew’s Square, found an old rustic standing be¬fore the door of Dumbreck’s Hotel, with bis cartfull of butter-milk barrels. He quickly concertedwith the Marquis a scheme of fun, whereby themilk of the old man found a very different destinyto what its owner intended. 1 hey first jumped upin front of the cart, seized the halter, and gallopedoff, leaving the poor man, to follow as best hecould—then took out all the spiggots, and in grandstyle drove along George-street, past the AssemblyRooms, to the astonishment of the fashionableswhom they had lately left; then down Frederick-street, along Frince’s-street, and back again to St.Andrew’s-Square, all the time followed by the oldmilk-man, who, in the agony of his heart, at see¬ing his valuable property deluging the causeway,exhausted his whole vocabulary of exclamations,/24-in giving vent to his indignation. With his sky-blue top coat flyrng behind him, and his roughshod heels striking fire from the pavement, he pur¬sued his ravished cart^shouting as loud as his ex¬hausted lungs would permit, ‘ O, ye unhangedblackguards !—ye villains !—ye deil’s buckies ! —I'll ha'e the law o’ ye, gin there be law in Embrugh,ye vagabonds!—I’ll get ye a better house thanyour father ever biggit, for ye, ye rascals I—I’llget ye clapped up as sure as ye’re leevin’, ye ram¬paging Emliurgh hallanshakeis !’ As soon as hearrived at the Hotel, the Marquis delivered thereins into his hand ; but blue-bonnet vowed hewould not quit him, till he had ascertained his name,and that of his companion. Mr —  put hishand into his pocket, and drew out a piece of pa¬per, which he said contained the required addres¬ses; and while the old man unfolded it, our youngheroes took the opportunity to escape. The bit ofpaper turned out to be a ten pound note,‘Ah,stop, my bonny lads,’ pries the appeased milk-man‘ I’ve something to say t'ye—Will ye need ony mairpiilk the morn ?’,ou;npd-»V(r3if>n Ani f< iw ,nftm-dliinq bMfctdav «id yndv/ sid tatauKiIx*csldfinoirisnl odi io '<i9rt?d«i-Joiwboid nv/ob ; ital yjFINIS.nrfj gnigtitab)ro 1o iftaludiioov