THEIO¥S CHRISTIAN’S PREPARATIONFOR HIS. A T T E R E NTo which is added,CHRISTMAS HYMN.MTMM .me,"'*--|F Aiore. My advice aua^oung perfons is, that yo*to God and God will h«aryou,^\ONALUfevOF SCOTLAND( * )>A-<JOB, chap. xxx. verfe 23.For I know that thou wilt bring me t*dnft, and to the houfe appointed for altliving.EVERY day fpend fome thoughtsabout eternity ; the thoughts ofeternity fhould make you very feriousabout your Ibul; let us in time rcmember eternity, let us every minute wehave to live, fo live as if we lived in featof everlafling torment. O man ! whofotver thou art, think upon thefe things (but thou especially, who findeft thyfellguilty of any grievous fin, repent ancamend : remember eternity, and thin!upon of death, it is imcertair^ will exped; thee^ death in evend thee whevefl ever( 3 )to part with all for Christ; to lay downyour life for Chrift, to lofe all to faveyour foul, and gain eternity. Many ofyou rife up early, and go late to bed atnight, and «at the bread of forrow allthe day, and load yourfelves with thickclay ; and I am fure, that fuch perfonsbeing night and day taken up with the' world, are not prepared for death.I remember a tyord recorded of ai'j wicked man, who was exceeding rich:fe faid he, I would give many thoufands!i; of pounds if death Would but give me> one day longer : he got it not, ani howt fuddenly may death furprife any of youii as it did him. Therefore prepare fordeath. An admirable young child a-bout five years of age, faid to his mo¬ther when his father was dead, die be¬ing often grieving for the lofs of herhufband, Grieve not mother, thp’ myfather be dead, yet God is alive, and: from that day to the day of her death,Ifhe never grieved more. My advice andcouncil' unto young perfons is, that youij will pray to God and God will h«aryou,( 4 )ymi, for he loves-them that love him,and they that feek him early (hull hadhim. If yon have a regard to your owneternal happinefs, it ought to be yourchiefeft care to ferve and glorify God J|it was for this end that God both made iand redeemed you : do but confiderj|how welcome a young perfon is to God j Jit was to young Samuel, that God re-ftvealed himfelf, and at filch a time whenlthe word of God was precious and veryjlrare : and you know that St. John thefyoungeft of all the difciples was the on-|ly perfon of all the twelve, wTho wasfjffered to lean on our Saviour’s bofom.Pray think, if you can, bow inconceiv¬able a joy it would he to you, when ipyo ir elder years you can think of yourwell /pent time, and the innocence ofyour youth ; how great a confolation■will it be to you on your death-bed,how ealy it will render your accountsat the great day of judgment r and howfmuch a whole life Ipent in God’s fer-vice, will increafe your glory in heaven ?I can but counfel and warn you ! I can¬not compel yot. to be happy, if I could [I -would: 1( 5 )would : therefore he wife hi time, that'ou be not iriferable to all eternity ;)ray unto God, and the Lord will anf-iaer, he will guide you continually, and|atisfy your fouls, and make fat yourones, and you (hall be like a watered,(arden, and God fliall make the habi-jition of your righteoufnefs profperous :li:‘ ye know thele things, happy are yeF yo\i do themj and the glory of the-ord frail be your reward. I wouldjun»:;-r God) be a means to help youjb find vour feet, and wralk in the waysIf God’s commandments, and run thej..ice, that is fet before you.—The wholelefign and aim of this dilcourfe is toiirarm the heart, enrich the confciencejtnd diredt the life : to teach men. howa live and to die, and how to attain a1 lifsful life after death,I( 6 )rfhc Signs before the Day. \F that day and hour knoweth"man, no not the angels thatin heaven, neither the Son, but the Fther. Watch therefore, for it is unctain whether the mafter of the hou:1(being gone into a firange country)come at eve, or at midnight, the cofcrowing, or'at dawning.Howbeit, certain hgns go before tday, by which as by evening men m;|judge of the morning, we may progmjticatc not only the nearnefs of the tinbut the terrors that will accompany itSt. Matthew fays, that before t.coming of. this day, there will be grewars and troubles in the world, natiejiih&ll rife againft nation, and kingdoagainll kingdom, and there fhall be greearthquakes in many places, and pefilence and famine, and terrilhe thingsair.hSt. Luke fays, thefs fliall be falthrifts, wars, feditipn, famine, plagti&c. ’ ‘ -A CHRIS( 7 )A Ch rift mas Hymn.t-Hriflians awake, falute the happy morn,Whereon the Saviour of the world wasife to adore the myftery of Love, [born,rhich hofts of angels chanted from above,rith them the joyful tidings firft beguVif God incarnate and the Virgin’s Son.hen to the watchful Shepherds it was told,If ho heard tlf angelic Heralds, voice behold lIbring good ridings of a Saviour’s birth,So you and all the nations upon earth,this day hath God fulfill’d his promis’d wrord,pis day is born a Saviour Chrift the Lord.S David’s city, Shepherds ye fiiall findfhe long foretold Redeemer of markind ;jfrapt up in fwadling clqaths, the Babe divineiies in a manger, this {hall be your fign.e fpake, and firaightway the celeftial choirhymns of joy, unknown before conlpire.e praifes of redeeming L.ove they fung,nd heav’ns whole orb with hallilujahs rungs.:od’s higheft glory was their anthem {till,eace upon earth and mutual good will:o Bethlehem th’ enlightened Shepherds ran,o fee the wonder God had wrought for man.,• ( 8 )And found with Jofeph and the blefled m uHer Son the Saviour in a manger laid.Amaz’d the wond’rous llory they proclaimThe firft apoftles of his infant frame :While Mary keeps and ponders in her heartThe heavenly vifion which the fvvains imparThey to thfcir flocks Hill praifmg God returnAnd their glacl hearts within their bofom burnLet us, like thefe good fhepherds tloen employOur grateful voices, to proclaim the joy.Like Mary, let us ponder in our mind,God’s woftd’rous love, in faving loft mankindArtlefs and watchful, as thefe favour’d fwains.While virgin meeknefs in the heart remains.Trace we the Babe, who has retriev’d our lofsFrom his poor manger to his bitter crofs.Treading his fteps, aflifted by his grace.Till man’s firft heav’nty ftate again takes placeThen may we hope th’ angelic throne aniong|To fing, redeem’d a glad triumphal fong, |He that was born upon this joyful cjay,Around us all his glory {hall difplay ;Sav’d by his Love, inceflant we {hail fing,Of angels, and of angel-men, the King.