CHEAP TRACTS, No, 9.THE DOCTRINE(OF THECROSS OF CHRIST|iSTATED AND IMPROVED.Tlte preaching of the erase it to them that perith foolisfsnets ;but umto us who are saved it is the power of God. Paui.THE DOCTRINEOF,THECROSS OF CHRISTSTATED AND IMPROVED.Where shall the guilty who hath lostJehovah’s favour by his sin,! Find worth which he can safely trust,A righteousness to glory in ?Behold the cross! the blood divineW Inch there for sons of wrath was spilt!Here’s worth enough to glory in.Enough to cleanse the foulest guilt.The refined system of religion, which is at;his day adopted by many, is unsuitable tohe case of anxious guilty criminals. It isusuffiqient to give substantial peace to abounded conscience ; insufficient to furnishproper reply to that most important ©f alliquiries, “ What must I do to be saved?”3But the Gospel of our I ,ord Jesus Christrichly adapted to answer these importantrposes. It directs us to the death of theiane Saviour, in our room and stead, ase sovereign remedy for all the evils which|t has ' introduced. The cross of Christ is theland source of relief which it proposes tor consideration. It is this which distin-dshes the religion of Jesus from every(her religion professed in the world.It may be needful just to observe, before2 proceed, that the Redeemer of men suf-ired death on a sort of gibbet called a cross,idth the Greeks, the Romans, and someher nations, this was a punishment inflie-4 on the vilest sla\ es, who had been guilty' notorious offences. It was shameful, *linful, and lingering. The criminal was-ret scourged with cords. These cords hadequently sharp pointed bones fixed totheirids. The sufferer must then bear his cross> the place of execution. There, his clothesieing stripped off, his body was ,stretchedppn the timber, his hands nailed to the ’oss beam, and his feet to the lower part,he cross was then raised, and fixed in theround; the nails, driven through the mostmsible parts of the body, and sustaining its/eight, rendered the pain exquisite beyondimpression. Yet it was sometimes twTo ortwee days' before, the par son expired. The4lleo-s of the two thieves, crucified with tiRedeemer, were broken, to hasten their -cfor a reason assigned by the Jews. WtSthey came to Jesus, they found that betadead already, and they marvelled at it. jiwas probably owing to the overwhelmfflsorrows of his holy soul, the weight ofman guilt, and the insupportable strokeavenging Justice. He was oppressedafflicted in a manner that cannot bescribed. Hence his most piercing outMi/ God, my God, why hast thou forsakenThe cross of Christ denotes not me:the timber to which he was nailed, and)f!which he expired, but his crucifixion u |iit : the death which he died for sinnwThe publication of this is called litPREACHING or THE CROSS. (L Cor. i.Which is said to he foolishness, to those <'perish, but to such as are saved it is thepowetyGod. To suffer persecution for maintain mthis doctrine, is to suffer persecution for ecross of Christ; and to glory in salvationtcatJesus is to glory in his cross. (Gal. vi. 12, |Thus the apostle in writing to the Galatiai,says, “ sis many as desire to make aj'shew in the flesh, they constrain tjou to he t *cumcised only lest they should suffer perseS*tion for the cross of Christ.” And at the >verse he exclaims, (i God forbid that I sho^vglory, save in the cross of our Lord JewChrist, by whom the world is crucified untome, and I unto the world. ,This then is the subject we are a little tconsider: A subject too wonderful, and toocopious, for our feeble powers. All we cansay, and especially in so narrow a compass,will fall far beneath the dignity and sublim¬ity of it. We shall only remind you, witnsimplicity and plainness, that the cross otChrist is the Julfilment of divine purposes andpredictions—the sum of the Gospel—the sal¬vation of sinners—the conquest 0/ all enemies—the foundation of hope—the ground of tri¬umph—the display of the divine perfections—and the grand incentive to holiness.1. The cross of Christ is the fulfilment ofdivine purposes, prophecies, andThe thoughts and counsels of the God of allgrace were, from everlasting, employed oilthe errand design which was accomplishedby the Redeemer's death The purposes otthe Father, in Christ Jesus our Lord, aresaid to be eternal. When be was deliveredup to be crucified, it was according to th<determinate counsel and foreknowledge o!God. . .What a series of prophecies, 01 visions, C|types, and of promises, was accomplished i'the cross of Christ! In this great cent!they all met. From Moses to M altichi, thSpirit oi God, in all the prophets, testifie6beforehand foe sufferings of Christ, and |glory that should follow. The, oracles <* I M v. pprough succeeding generation 'referred to foe cross of Christ,fofohfs the Mosaic rites, and ordinance;j types and symbols, had their aecomplisfment. If we. consider them not in this li<fofbat are they all, but pompous and unmeaning institutions, utterly unworthy thwisdom of their great Author! Wliat.smniii bcaney could there he in the Shedding of s<nnu'h blood, the slaughtering of so ^maminnocent victims, the consuming of so muc)nesh, if the whole were not to teach us, thatwhhout the shedding of Jesus’ blood, therek be no remission of sins for us ? Thejj c,;n,sia',t sacrificing of many inoffensive ani-nials, pointed to the one great sacrificewhich Jesus was to offer up without spotijii (lod- Considered in this light, every in¬stitution of this kind had its significancy.!! ^ e are therefore taught, in the"New Tes¬tament, to understand them as shadows of~ Liiem as snaaows o,good dm,ox i0 come) 0f the ho(jt/ is p-fn | lhe ambiguity of types vanished in his1 cross, when he appeared once in the end ofI t to Put away. si„ by the sacrificet of himself.l\fany of the most remarkable events, and} 11]any tbe most distinguished personages,mentioned in the Old Testament, were typ-7:ical of the cross of Christ- We cannot beiraistaken in this interpretation of them,|since the inspired writers of the New Tes-;lament teach us . so to understand them.iThe priesthood of Melchisedec, and that ofAaron -and his sons, prefigured the ever- *;lasting oriesthood of the Son of God. Ihei astonishing transaction of Isaac s beingbound, and laid on the altar by the handsof his father, is explained by the cross ofChrist. It pleated the Lord to hr am him, hehath put him to grief he made his soul anofferingJor sin.' The lifting up of the brazen serpent inthe wilderness, for the healing of the ex¬piring Israelites, was realized in the eleva¬tion of Jesus on the cross. ‘vSb was the Sonof mein lifted up, that whosoever helieveth inhim should not perish, but have everlastingHfef Bread from heaven sustained the livesof the travellers from Egypt to Canaan ; jJesus came down from heaven and gavehimself to be the life of the world. 1 he \rock was smitten, to give drink to the thir¬sty tribes of the Lord; tliat rock was Christ,smitten for us by the rod or justice, that we;mhriit be furnished from him with thewaters of life and salvation, Joshua led thepeople of Israel into Canaan ; Jesus bringsus into the promisedland of rest and felicityThe prophets of God, rapt veto Jtttur\8tnncs, foretold tli« transactions of the F(ieemcr's life, the sorrows of his seul, tagonies of his death, and the glorious effewjnch were to ensue. In the early ajresthe vwrld, the faith of God’s people wsupported by that mysterious predicticthat the “ Seed of the tcornan ahovld bmthe serpent's head." The Patriarchs weassured that in the promised Seed allnatioof the world should be b- sseu. Job knetliat his Redeemer lived. Jacob, in a diviiecstasy before liis death, delivered that woderful oracle, that the .sceptre .should not apar thorn Judah, nor a lawgiver from betwahi.s feet, until Shiloh, the Prince of Peatshould make his appearance: to whom tigathering *f the people should he. To tlbeloved Daniel, the time was revealed mojexpressly, when Messiah should be cut o,to finish transgression, to make an end of sinto make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring ieverlasting righteousness, and to seal up tlvision and prophecy.The circumstances, attending the crucifxion of Jesus, are foretold by the Psalmisas it he had actually seen them. The ageniet> he should feel are described; the cry hshould utter on the cross is expressed ; thcasting of lots forhis garments, the pierciniof ms hands and his feet, and the vinegaand the gall given him to drink, are distinetly mentioned. (Psalm xxii.i9Sometimes the Prophets represent Jesusi sufferer, and sometimes as a conqueror.>iv they speak, of his humiliation, then ot: exaltation. They point him out as their that was to come out ot Jacob, and as> Branch that was to spring out of theim of Jesse. They describe him as thej^o-el of the covenant; and as the Desirei nations, who should suddenly cometo his temple. They hold him forth as aing who should reign in righteousness,lending his sway from shore to shore;hose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom,id of whose dominion there shall be noad. “To us," they cry, in a divine tran-)ort, “to us a ChiUl is born, to us a Son isiven, and t)ie government shall be upon hishoulder, and his name shall be called IVmi-erful, Counsellor, The Mighty God, TheEverlasting Father, The Prince of Peace."fet, mysterious as it is, this is heofwho.nihev speak, in other places, as calling him-elf a worm and no man, a reproach ot men,md despised by the people; as being hatedwithout a cause; as being despised and re¬sected of men; led like a lamb to the slaugh¬ter ; a man of sorrows, and acquainted withgrief; and cut off out of the land of theliving.The cross of Christ explains, elucidates, andconfirms all these predictions.2. The cross of Christ is the sum of the110Goxpel. What is the Gospel but a nrsage from Heaven, of mercy, of peace, ao salvation, through the sufferings a'a( eath of the Son of God? Of Gospel histowhat is the sum? Christ crucifikV\ hat do the four Evangelists relate? Thall for substance relate the same story; aitnat story is rightly termed the Gospel,is the HISTORY OF THE CROSS.The doctrine of the Gospel is the dotrine of the cross. We preach Christ cncined. “I determined,” says one of the finof Ins messengers inspired to bear his nambefore Gentiles and kings, ana the childreor Israel, “/determined toknoiv nothing-amonyou, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.r i t Christ for oilr sins is the lifof the Gospel. All the lines of evangelicatruth meet in this one point. You cannomention one individual branch of the sacrecsystem which stands unconnected with itOur being chosen to eternal life, our regen:oration, our calling, our justification, ouradoption into the family of God our sanc¬tification, our perseverance in faith andholiness to eternal felicity, all have an im¬mediate relation to the atonement of Christ.Jake that foundation away, and the wholesuperstructure falls to the ground.• cros*-Qf Christ is the salvation ofsinners. The distinguishing character of11him whd effects this great tyorh, is that of aSaviour, an Almighty Saviour; who Cameto deliver us from the wrath to come ; torecover us from the abyss of sin and miseryinto which we are fallen, and to exalt ns tothe regions of endless felicity. '1 ins yieeffected riot barely by the heavenly doctrinewhich he taught, and the bright examplewhich he set before us, but by the deathwhich he died for our sins.Mankind are represented in the Scripturesof truth as being in a lost and ruined con¬dition. But Jesus Came to save the lost, bybearing their sins, in his own body on thetree, by being wounded for their transgres¬sions, and bruised for their iniquities; bysuffering, the just for the unjust; that theymight have healing by his stripes, and life. by bis death.This enables us to account for all that issaid in the Scriptures concerning thedignityof the. Redeemer’s person. lie was foundin fashion as a man, hut he thought it no rob¬bery, (thought it no more than what he mightjustly claim,) to be equal icith God. Thoughhe was really and tridy a man, that hemight be capable of suffering, and of dying]yet all the fulness of the Godhead dweljbodily in him. He and the Father are on<^in nature and perfections. If the Bed com¬er's death were not a proper atonemen:12f£r why was it necessary that God 3should be manifested in the flesh ? Why 'was it necessary that he who redeems us,should be Immanuel, God with us, God inour nature ? An angel from heaven mighthave taught us the will of our Maker, andgiven us a good example. Nay, a man likeourselves might have done both. The deit>dl Christ, and his atonement for sin, muststand or fall together. Hence those whodeny the one, do also, consistently enough,deny the other. It is the dignity of the Re-leemer’s person that gives efficacy and va-idity to his sacrifice.Misery is the natural consequence ofjuilt. Death is the wages of sin; its propertnd just reward.-What then is it that savesis from impending ruin ? No effort, no ex¬ited lent of our own ; but the remedy whichpod himself has provided. What is it thatclivers us from going down to destruction,ut the ransom found! Our blessed Lordold Nicodemus, that the end of his beingfted up upon the cross was this, that uho-, lever believed in him should not perish. Isi; not then the cross of Christ that saves us; !;om destruction ? Is it not a crucifiedi'esus who saves us from eternal misery?i Hro that seriously thinks of this, can for-12ar to admire the wonderful expedient ?procures our peace with him.IS'he cross of Christ reconciles us to God.appeaseth the wrath of our incensedige, as it is a full satisfaction for ournes. Through this ample compensationful Justice smiles, as well pleased withry one who believes in Jesus. He isphatically styled “our peace,” hatingde peace by the blood of his cross. This:he import of that divine declaration,.t God was in Christ, reconciling therid to himself, not imputing their ti es¬ses unto them. Through his cross weoy the favour of God, w hich is bettern life. His love is manifested to usough Jesus Christ our Lord,fhe cross of Christ procures our spiritual*—We are raised from a death in tres-.ises and sins, in consequence of the Ue-aner’s death for us. The end of his dy-; for us, we are assured, was, that wei^ht live unto God; that divine life mightimparted to us from the living head,this purport is his owm testimony, “/ amie, that they might have life."In consequence of his dying for us, the-giving Spirit is bestowed, to impart toheavenly knowledge, evangelical repen-ice, living faith, holy love, and spiritualWhatever we are as Christians, wethat of God in Christ Jesus, and as theiit of his death. He is made of God unto14us, n.it only msdom and rigliteousnesS,sanctification. If we are quickened, ijstogether with Christ; if we are heaJed,by his stripes.The cross of Christ procures our parcffand justification. There is no remissksins bul through the shedding of hisblcWeare chargeable with crimes almost vout number; from the least ofnumber;nothing can free us but the cross of ChrThis removes our transgressions from usfar as the east is from the west. The bkof Jesus cleanseth from all sin. Whosoebelieveth in him shall receive the bless:of a free and fufl remission. Sin shall nerise up in judgement against him; it is ddaway, as though it had never been; nay,are assured, it shall not even be remembekany more for ever.The curse of that holy law which we Iji:broken is removed from us by the cross iChrist. I£ we have faith in the Son of G1thelaw proclaims no words of terror agai ius; its awful penalty has been borne, 5tremendous malediction has been endif iby him who espuused our cause, and undfltdok our recoArery. f^ hat else can beiheaning of that most cheerful declarati(i Christ hath redeemed us frovi the curs,the law, being made a curse for usT' This therefore now no. condemnation to th15j that are irt Christ Jesus.; they are justifiedfreely by Ins'blood; sojustided, tlmtnothing-h laid to their charged so jnstifiedv as to’i stand complete in Christ; so juslitit<l, as tobe beheld without spot by the eyes' of in¬finite purity.4. 7 he cross of Christ is the conquest of\wr enemies. Captivity itself is led captive.-fhe powers of darkness are overcome.[Jesus has spoiled principalities and powers,triumphing over them on the cross. Theynnay yet be permitted to distress us for aVthile, but the God of peace shall bruiseSatan and all his legions, under our feetshortly.Our old man is crucified with Christ,that the body of sin might be destroyed.I he decree is gone forth, which shall neverbe reversed, *• Sin shull not krtve dominionove? you ; for ye are not under the hue, hutunder grace. After the Apostle Paul hadbeen uttering that pathetic exclamation, “O'i retched man that I am, who shall deliver merom the body of this death T he immediatelytdds, “/ thank God through Jesus Christ>ur Lordf a glorious prospect of completeictory opened to his view, which turnedns mourning into joy.2he cross of Christ delivers us from thisresent wicked world, with all its snaresdd vexations. 2 he divine Redeemer diedr16to accomplish this, among all his other i' achievements. In this view, the cross of ftChrist was endeared to the blessed Apostle •)Pavd. as that by which the world was cm-cified to him, and he unto the world.Death, the last foe of man, and the gloo- <my grave, the terror of all living, are ov er- ■'come by the cross of Christ. Death’s for- imidable appearance remains, but bis sting jj is gone ; for when guilt was expiated death 11 was disarmed. The pardoned sinner may: therefore boldly say, “O death, where is thy' sting ? O grave, where is thy victory ?Thanks he to God, who giveth us the victorythrough our Lord Jesus Christ!” The king;of terrors is, by the cross of Christ, converted:iiito a messenger of peace. Now it is gain tw:die. 7 he grave is become a quiet resting? iplace for our mouldering bones to the great:rising day.5. The cross of Christ is the foundation (ty-our hope.—Some talk of a hope built on theaeview of a well-spent life: a certain indi-ication of a want of self-knowledge. Wham. hope can the enlightened, the anxious:;trembling sinner, have on this ground ? A.thousand miscarriages arise to his viewr;J Were there no ground of hope but that o:>| the deeds of the law, such a one must sin!:S into despair. Nothing can be sure grouncof hope, but that which removes sin, tha.17which takes away the curse, that which sa¬tisfies justice, that which procures peu- ewith CJod, and constitutes a sure title toheaven. The cross of Christ, we hav e seen,answers all these purposes; answers themeffectually. And hence it becomes the one,the only foundation of hope. T he hopewhich is built upon it is sure and steadfast,like an anchor of the soul. Jesus Christ isthe believing sinner’s hope, and none but he.Other foundation, for thi.s salutary purpose,otn no man lay. The disquieted consciencefinds no relief but in the Saviour’s completeatonement. The enlightened mind can de¬rive no supporting confidence, but from thissource. “IVe believe that through the graceof our Lord Jems Christ we shall be saved."6. The cross of Christ is the ground ofoer triumph. How should it be otherwise ?It answers every salutary purpose. It re¬moves every evil, and insures every good.The Christian has not only hope towardsGod, but joy and consolation ; joy, whichrises at times, to a holy triumph. But onwhat is it founded f. The apostle furnishesus with an answer, “We joy in God throughJesus Christ our Lord, by whom we havenow received the atonement." He exempli¬fies this in his own happy experience, “Godforbid that I should glory, save in the crossof our Lord Jesus Christ." As if he had18said, * Thin to me is the ground of the smlimest consolation, of the highest tniumpeven of glorying. The atoning sacrifice ocrucified Saviour is all imj const. It is nonly my constant support; it fills me wiineffable joy,"7- The cross of Christ gives us the brightidisplay of divine perfections. 11 not onbrings the most solid comforts to naan, bithe highest glory to God. We see, on thground, that a just and holy God, thongdetermined to display his mercy and ubounded grace, would do it only m suchway as might eternally vindicate the honoof his law ; might demonstrate the puriof his nature, and declare the inviolatfaithfulness of his threatening word.We conceive that the Mast High is hj finitely wise. His wisdom shines in all lj|works. But no where have we so strikiia display of it as in the cross of Christ. Heit wonderful was the contrivance which coutIt harmonize, in the salvation of men, tseemingly opposite claims of mercy andjustice ; that could satisfy, exalt, and maij nify both; causing merey and truth to nwi.| together, righteousness and peace to el ibrace each other ! Had punishment be ii inflicted on the sinner in all its severity, 11glory of mercy had been obscured. Aion the other hand, had the sinner baa19ardoped without any peMalties sustainedy himself or his substitute, justice hadpn set aside, and (speaking after thejanner of men)' one essential attribute of)eity would have triumphed over another.A God cal mercy, is a God unjust. But,i the cross of Christ, mercy and justice arequally glorified. In this divine expedient,aersfore, God hath displayed infinite wijs-om ; or, to use the language of inspiration.He hath abounded towards us, in allnsdom and prudence.”The Apostle Paul tells us, that God setjrth the blessed Jes;us for a propitiation,irougli faith in his blood, with this expressesign, that he might declare his ri'ghteous-ess; might demonstrate that vindictiveistice, wjiose essential character and prin-pal office is to punish sin. Thus a holyfod shows himself to be strictly and in-,iqlably righteous, in th,e administration ofjis go^'ernment, even while he is the jus-fier of the sinner that believeth in Jesus,i this method of dispensing grace, he se-ures the utmost reverence to his divine|w, he declafgs his infinite abhorrence ofn, he strikes the deepest terror on everyprsevering sinner, at the same time thate lays a solid foundation for the highestppe in every penitent transgressor, Thelaments inflicted on condemned souls In20the infernal regions are not so awfuimonument of the justice and holiness osin-hating God as he has given us in vcrucifixion of his beloved Son.—for if fLord .spared him not, when guilt was ifound in him, but only imputed to hihow much less shall he spare the stubtxoffender himself, who obstinately persistshis rebellion. Nothing-sets forth the horaggravations of sin, its execrable vilenand loathsomeness in the sight of Godnothing speaks such terror to the work iof iniquity, did they but lay it to heartthe shameful, the bitter, the accursed des:of the Prince of life for our offences.The love, the grace, and mercy of God, are niillustriously displayed in the cross of Christ. Part,life, and endless felicity, granted to condenucriminals on any terms, must be wondertul and £an astonishing display of divine mercy. But " ithe father grants these through the wounds,agonies, the death of his dear, his only begotten, iequal Son, he not only manifests his lore, but cmends it; he displays it in such a way as may juinflame us with gratitude, and transport us >s ith elasting admiration. He shews it in its highestlection. The blessings of salvation, invaluablthemselves, are unspeakably enhanced by the nia:in which they are conferred. God so loved the w«loved it in such a way and to such a degree,, asonly be expressed, only conceived by hiruselt;loved it, that lie gave his only begotten son to tortand to death, even the death of the cross,whosoever believeth on him should not perish,have everlsKtinir life. Sin had reiirned unto t.t21but God * free and unbounded gracf, like a gloriousand superior sovereign, in all her fulness, riches, and■splendour, reigns through the righteousness ofJesus to eternal life. A thousand worlds conferredon us would have been as nothing, in comparisonwith the grace which is displayed in the death of theSon of God for us. Herein is love indeed.In a word, would we see the tremendous name ofJehovah written in the fairest lines ; would we seeall his adorable perfections shine forth with thegreatest splendour, we must fix our attention on theRedeemer’s cross.We shall close these remarks with one observationmore, and that is,8. rhe cross of Christ is the grand incentive toholiness. The doctrine of complete salvation by theRedeemer s death, is far from being unfriendly tothe interests of morality. That morality which isrecommended in the Sacred Scriptures, is engraftedon evangelical principles, and produced by the con¬straining love of a dying Redeemer. If we wish youto be animated to the practice of every good workwe are persuaded that the love of Christ in bisdying for you, will be the most powerful incitement.A lively sense ol this, will produce the gratitude ofheart, which will be more operative than the mostcogent philosophical reasonings, to stir you up to ac¬tivity in the way of holiness, or the most awfulthreatemngs to deter you from the contrary.We do not mean that exhortations to duty aresuperseded by the doctrine for which we plead • orthat it is unnecessary to instruct, to caution to warnand admonish the followers of Christ, with respect totheir conduct; what we mean is, that the love andgrace of the Redeemer, manifested in his dying for usare the most powerful inducements to practical holi-i ness. “ Tie grace of God, which bringeih salvationicacheth us, that, denying ungodliness and worldly lustsi22awe should Uw soberly,,righteously, and godly, in thispresent world.' Would we be excited to unfeignedand active love to die Author of our salvation ?—Weilove Kim because he first loved us. Would we beexcited to ingenuous sorrow for sin ?—While we lookto Him whom we have pierqed, we mourn aftergodly sort. Nothing is so likely to break the stonyheart, and to melt the ice within us to evangelicalrepentance, as a view of a suffering Saviour, woundedfor ouv transgressions, and bruised for our iniquities.Would we be induced to a thorough renunciation,of every false way ?—No motive is so effectual to di¬vorce our affections from the abominations to whichwe have formerly cleaved, and turn our feet from:every evil way, as the powerful persuasion that Christ'died for us ; that we, being dead unto sin, shouldlive unto righteousness Would we be induced to(practise all 'that is comprehended in the duties ofbenevolence, kindness, charity, and brotherly love?—No persuasive so endearing as the kindness and love "of God our Saviour: “Walk in love, as Christ alsohath loved us, and given himself for us.”—Toforgmone another, because God for Christ’s sake hath for¬given them;—To//fora/hj/inalms-giving,because they;know the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, that thoughhe was rich, yet for their sakes he became poor, thatthey through Iris poverty might he rich To ubsluh-‘from because their bodies .are .the members6f Christ, and th? temple of the Holy Ghost;—Tc tglorify God in tfoeir body and spirit which are God’sbecause they arc not their own, but bought with i j;price ; and to be holy in all manner of conversation jpassing the time eff their sojourning here in feat rforasmuch as they know that they were redeemedwith the precious blood of Christ, as of-a lamb with¬out blemish ancl without spot.237-mous s)^stenis have long been current under the: ot C“nst'an,,ty yhieh the world likes and ad-alford to many ai1 easy roaJ to% profit and repuUUon. But in tins circum-c’ SU,Ch K-VSU'1,‘" caiTy the mark of being differentand opposue to the Christianity of Scripturemne .A^h h established a kingdom^ thatof I/m world ; (John *yiii. 36.) and holds out^rement to the worldly eye. On the contraryoclanns, Ij «uy mU cwne nf{er ^ kf ^himself, and iake up hit cron cmd follow we; andd (\u " tef °fthe n°rld he isd. (Matt. xvi. 24. James iv. 4.) If the disciples, ev^f escahe contempt and resehtmeift ofmounding world, it must be either because theyf confessing Ins truth distinctly, or because theyise by them conduct what .they confess with theirbecause they forsake the standing laws of histe^eliS Jr I?**’ aUd conf'°nnd it with the" g, ellemies- The laws of'hisar® handed down in the Apostolic writ-n-se regulation of his subjects to the end of the.. AKnd !l|e]who attl(mPts to f*t aside their divinenty by adding to them or fctking from them isf doinff the work of Antichrist.'Ik they of morals? O thou bleeding lambiou maker of new morals to mankind ’te grand morality is love of thee.Her strongest motives sting,&re sacred violence assaults the soul»d nothing1 but compulsion is forborne.24The cure for the wounded conscience.Wherkwith shall I, o'erwhelm’d with sitBefore the Lord appear ?Or how can such a wretch as ITo the Most High draw near ?Where shall the conscience, stung with siriApply relief to tind ?And where’s the balm whose healing pow‘>Can cure a wounded mind ?Can all the pow’r of man do ought ?Ah no ! ’tis all in vain—’Tis God that wounds, and God aloneCan heal the wound again.And lo! Jehovah’s boundless graceThe blessed cure supplies ;To save his people from their sins.See ! Jesus bleeds and dies !Yea, rather see he lives again !And shall for ever live ;And will, to all for whom he died.This life eternal give.Then, what though in this vale of tears, jOur sufFrings may abound ?And for afflictions mortal stroke,No cure can here be found ?Our life is hid with Christ in God,;When Christ our life appears.His people he’ll with glory crown.And wipe away their tears.FINIS.