THE HISTORY OF FAIR jpTHE BEAUTIFUL MISTRESS OFK.I N G HEW.RY THE SECOND*HEK BIRTH, & EDUC ATIONAT THE NUNNERY OF GODSTO\V.AHD EER DEATH.saiii:t?-9-i:t:i:iW. & R- INGLIS, & Go.203, Gallowgate.^ OF SCOTLAND rB U B^9; v' • - '/•f' v'-PU'. ■ ' -W' •30?; >yxj/■ ' r K’ , > a • ■ , (4c-Cl Vc.CoVA ;-1- ' « ' "C. ■ < ODS.1iJ! ;-7-ViiJ.r. :r ii . .> i C ~:f- ;,r r - , ,THE HISTORY OFFAIR ROSAMOND.Rosamond daughter of Walter LordiClifford, was born in the year 1134 ; herfather was a nobleman of high reputationand wealth, and brought up his daughterin a style befitting his rank.Fair Rosamond was born at the timewhen the skirmishes between Matilda(Quee» of Henry I.) and king Stephen,kept all England in a ferment. Henry,son of Matilda, and afterwards HenryII., was educated at Oxford, and in itsvicinity was his boyhood past. It is nowimpossible to ascertain the exact timewhen he first beheld Rosamond, but shemust have been very young, for it is re¬corded that he had seen her in 1149,when Rosamond was a boarder at God-stow Nunnery.The nunnery at Godstow was foundedby Lady Ida, of Winchester, who be¬came abbess of the establishment; rife at¬tached a church to it, and dedicated the♦4•same to the Virgin Mary and St John thrBaptist; which was opened in 1138. Rosamond could not have been1 more thaiten or.eleven years of age when she .waireceived into this holy house ; the rggu- ‘lations of which were by no means so1sti’ict as those of most, religious establish¬ments. Stow records, that the femalesof the nunnery “ were wont to appear atthe fair, if they list, and would go fto Med-sIgy, and other places ^f di'ersion.’’- :At Medley a large building betweenGodstow and Oxford, according to tradditiem, the yqung and ardent Henry firstsaw unpl^roine, when he was but fifteen,and hers,elf otdy twelve years of age.Y<yung, handsome and' accomplished,—ere the world had taught his breast one 'lesson of guilt, ere society had plantedweeds.‘in the pure soul of nature—he sawthe gentle girl: too young for lOve, theyfelt ap interest for each other; and shewould wander from the precinctspf God-stow, to.meet ,th,e truant prince who stray¬ed from his tutor at Oxford, to pass anhour with the lovely Rosamond.When Henry attained sixteen, he wascalled from his studies and his pleasures,to.assert his qlaim to the crown, at thesword's point. The field of battle, theocares of a new life, the honour that hesought, engrossed the mind of Henry ;he had little leisure to devote to softerthoughts; a reflection on the pleasantmoments passed with Rosamond, wouldhowever intrude itself, but he only gavea sigh for his early hours, and buried hisgrief in the bustle of warlike preparations.In the meantime Rosamond, had expan¬ded into womanhood ; she was now sev¬enteen ; her person was tall, and exquis¬itely proportioned ; her hair, which wasof a light golden colour, flowed in suchprofusion, that it seemed as if nature haddesigned it for a garb, for it reached evento her feet; her face was exquisite ; hereyes dark, and formed a fine contrast toher skin which was beautifully fair, andof a transparent hue;When Henrv hi l laid aside his ar¬mour, secure of ultimately wielding thesceptre, his thoughts reverted to the com¬panion of his boyish rambles. He soonquitted the south of England for themetropolis, and from thence bent hiscourse to Oxford. He retraced everystep of his boyhood ; he reached the treeupon whose trunk he had fondly carvedthe name of his enchanter he lookedupon the name that was indelibly engrav-6en upon bis heart:, and all the passion ofhis boyhood gushed over his soul, Shewhom he loved, was at this time at themanor of her father, and Henry did notwish to encounter Lord Clifford: hewaited, therefore, for a chance of meet¬ing her, in her rambles.Whilst Henry was wandering near thenunnery of Godstow, the mansion ofLord Clifford was the scene of festivityand merriment, for Baron Fitzvvarren, ayoung nobleman of riches and noblebirth,came as a suitor to our heroine. TheBaron was the son of one of the earliestprojectors of the Crusade ; and he inher¬ited his father’s fame and valour. Hisgigantic person, his courteous manners,caused him to be observed of all. Afiner or a braver youth never raised alance.“ I would willingly,” said he, addressingLord Clifford, “ awhile lay by my sword ;and taste of the joys of peace, of home,and lead thy beauteous daughter to gracethe halls my father left me ; but my good .Lord she turns an icy ear to my warm¬est vows, and seems to woo the cloister, t“ My noble Lord,” replied the father,‘ the maid who yields at once is lightly jirgained and scarcely worth the_conquest,7my daughter, doubt not, good lord, whentime has weaned her fears, she’ll greetyour love with love as pure, as warm asyou could wish it.”In the gardens of the mansion, LadyClifford contrived to leave her lovelydaughter with the young Baron. Sherose to follow her mother, but with a gen-:le force, he detained her.“ Fly me not, sweet Rosamond,” he'I'ied, “ for I have much to tell you:;ome, sit ye down fair lady, and listen tome.”“ My father will chide my stay—mymother too—.”“ They will not chide but gladden atiour staying; Oh ! I have much to say,3ut that my speech grows lack whene’er■ gaze upon thee, maiden.”“I pray, my Lord, you will disclose atmce what is of such import to be ut-ered,” cried Rosamond.“ Need I speak then, gentle lady? dolot mine eyes speak for me ?—I lovemu, Rosamond.—I come to lay myiches, and my trophies at thy feet andisk thy hand.”“ Alas ! my Lord, I am but a silly maid,inwohyof the honours that you proffer“ Oh ! say you’ll be propitious to me !”8“ Indeed, my Lord,” cried Rosamond,1“ I canWot. ’“ Oh ! tell me—ease me of my hopes:or fears at once—has any other lore en-'Vhfoned itself in thy fair breast?—or canit be, it yet is cold to passion ?”“ Of love I }ret have thought not,’’ An¬swered Rosamond'.u Say, you do not hate me."“ I never hated any earthly thing; andlittle cause have I to':> hate my father sfriend,” cried Rosamond/“May I then hope ?“ eagerly exclaimedFitz warren.“ All that in duty I should do, I will ;and your lordship will believe, that 1 amnot insensible to tile honour that you'proffer me.“Lord Fitzwarren found her answers'even more evasive than he anticipated,and bowing respectfully left her, to'com¬municate to her fathfer his hopes.That very evening Rosamond wanderedwith her maid from the castle, musingupon her early days, and tasking hermind to compliance with the wishedof her parents, when a rustling in the5bushes beside her aroused her from herreverie. In an instant, a youth, clad ina green hunting tunic, leaped over theC 9^brambles that divided them; she-loO'kedupon him for a moment; it was her for--mer lover, who stood beside her ;■ thelyoung, the handsome Henry, now,expan-■ ded into manhood. Words could ill con¬vey the emotions of either bosom ;—therehe stood, her own, her darling boy";—the first being of her own age for whomshe felt a care. The days of childhood,and its joys, crowded on her memory,as she gazed upon every feature time hadripened into manly beauty. When shelastbeheld him, he was a fine yodth, withhealth upon his cheek, and truth uponhis tongue. War and toil had thrown adarker hue over his countenance, but, time had given a sweeter cadence to hisvoice: the generous boy had become the' flatterin" lover.OHenrv urged her flight; but Rosamond*’s; sense of duty revolted at the idea. “Shalll fly, she cried, “ from my parents, towhom I owe a thousand times more thanmy utmost gratitude can ever repay;?. oh ! do not urge me to it!’“ Gentle, lovely Rosamond,” replied, the prince, “ they can but wish thy hap-. piness -^in my arms you will be happy/’“Why not at once reveal to my father■your love ?” cried Rosamond.i10II“ That is at present, impossible. Till!Stephen’s death, I am but the dependantof a party, promise me, at least, my Rosa¬mond, that you will have no other, and Iwill wait till happier hours may cometo make thee mine.”“ By every star above us !” cried Rosa¬mond, I vow that, if I am not thine, Inever will be another’s.“Rosamond, pressed to the throbbingbreast of Henry, had uttered this vow ereshe had time to reflect that she had thussworntto frustrate the intentions of herfather. The lovers parted.Lord Clifford urged the suit of hisnoble friend, and Rosamond at lengthperemptorily refused him. Wonder gaveplace to rage in the bosom of her father,and he punished his disobedient child byconfinement to his castle. She had nomeans of communicating to Henry hersituation, and the agony of restraint wasincreased bv the conviction, that her•> 'lover awaited her coming at the usualspot, and must be torn with surmises asto the cause of her absence.Henry, however, judged that theirmeetings had been discovered ; but, em¬boldened by love, he, at midnight ap¬proached the castle, and bribing the sen-11tinel and Rosamond’s "maid, he crossedthe moat, and placed himself beneaththe lattice of Rosamond’s chamber. Themaid true to her promise brought hermistress to the window, and left her there,gazing on the brightness above her, whenthe moonbeams fell upon the figure ofher lover. Breathless with pleasure andalarm, she gazed upon him—“Fly!” atlength she exclaimed; “ dangers awaityou.”“ I defy all danger for one glance ofthine eye—once accent from thy tongue,the only bliss left me on earth.”“ Oh ! do not talk of bliss—the guard ifthey perceive, will surely destroy thee.““ Say that you love me still, and I will fly,“replied the prince.“ Oh! can you doubt it! If there betruth in all you profess, oh! fly, love,now.”Henry turned to take one parting glanceand fled.Rosamond now removed to Godstow,and put under the charge of the abbesswould gain no tidings of Henry; she be¬thought her therefore of her vow never,never to be another's,^and now calmlymeditated giving her existence to thechurch. Whilst thus weaning her mindfrom earth, she was suddenly called toconfession; she met Father Ambrosewith a cheerful air, and was about to ad¬dress him, when he cried, “ Be pacified,good daughter; another hour the churchwill hear your errors —I have much ofimport to reveal to vou—I 'see vou herein sorrow, as yet a novice in the holy -house, and my religious function bids mewarn ye not to mock Heaven with afeigned love ;—your thoughts stray stillin earth—is it not so ?“■ “ Alas ! my Father/4 replied Rosamond,“ such has been my weakness, but ;time 444 I speak not thus to chide yon.Heaven delights not in constrained vows ; :and there are duties yet on earth whichyou may still fulfil, wherein your days |may pass as holily as here—there's onehas wooed thee, maiden ; and I have lis¬tened to his exhortations to bear theethis.44 So saying, he put a scroll into herhands, and she read as follow :s—44 Beloved of my soul,—Rememberyour vow—tell me by the friar, if thouwilt be mine, and 1 will deliver thee.He who bears thee this doth wish us well,and may be trusted,—Your wretchedlover,—-Henry.4413“Tell me, iFriar,“ s,be criedy ‘Vwhatmean yoa?—what meaijs lie?““ Maiden,“ cried Father Ambrose,-‘Fhewho writes you thus has won upon me,by earnest prayer to breathe his vows toyou—-and I proffered him my service:you have confessed to me your love—■that too has swayed me: a virtuous wifeis a better title,-.than an unblessed nun.“Scarcely knowing what she did, Rosa¬mond took tire required vow.“ ‘Tis well,“ cried Ambrose ; “ Heavenknows, ‘tis for its service that I venturethus; to-morrow night, when all is hush¬ed and still, feign you a sudden cause toquite your couch, and reach the portalwindow, from thence a ladder slung shallgive you safe to him 1 shall send toguard thee“My father! my mother!“ exclaimedRosamond ; “what will they sayp““ Time shall content them. In thechurch‘s name I do pronounce to thee,that less of sin is in thy flying hence thantarrying here; therefore be comforted."“ May I not write to them, to say thatI have gone, but am not yet unworthy oftheir care ?““No; I forbid it. I will calm theirfears. Leave all to me.“14The bigotry of the period made the in¬junction of a Father Confessor almost alaw ; and Rosamond scarcely paused toask herself if what she purposed waswrong, secure that the sanction of thechurch would not be given to evil.Father Ambrose was one of the manywretches, who make religion the cloak tovillany. The moment he learnt fromthe confessions of Rosamond who washer lover, he sought means to communi¬cate with Henrv, and to ingratiate him-self with the future Monarch, as well aswith the hope of present gain, agreed tobecome the pander of his Prince.The curfew had tolled, and every lightwas extinguished—the cottager had dash-ed the ashes from the wood slip that inthose days supplied the place of candles—and all was silence and darkness: thesolitary sound of the startled wolf-dogalone broke upon the ear, as Henry,guided by a confidant of Father Ambrose,paced the confines of GodstOw Nunnery.“ Descend, and be in safety, and inbliss,” exclaimed a voice, whose lightestecho was a heart-throb to her. Therewas no time for pause, for thought—herfoot was upon the ladder—Henry’s handhad grasped hers and she descended.015“ Away, away !” he cried ; “ she is won,and I am happy.”Rosamond was placed upon a leopard-skin for a pillion : her lover sprung upbefore her, and his faithful steed flewwith them across the country ; the dimhaze of morn was upon every surroundingobject—she knew not whither she went;one arm encircled her lover, whose heartbeat beneath the gentle pressure of herhand ; the rapidity with which they wentrendered speech nearly impossible, andscarcely a word was breathed, till Henryhalted to speak with his companion.Where are we ?” he exclaimed.“ Right for our destination; we areten miles from Uxbridge yet.“The morning-star was fading beforethe coming day, when Henry enteredUxbridge, where he dismounted, andassisted his lovely companion from herseat.“ Here you are safe,‘£ he cried, as heled her into a neat, though small, cottage.‘•'You lack rest; let me lead you to achamber. Sleep, my beloved. I willbe your watch ; no danger shall approachyou.“A few hours passed in a fruitless en¬deavour to repose, when Rosamond for-] 6sook her pillow, and sought her lover.The excitement of her flight had lulledher anxieties*; and overwhelmed herthoughts.of home ; but; in the reflectionsthat time afforded her, they came withredoubled .force.“ Oh ! Henry,“ she cried, “ I repentme of the past: bear . me back to myfather; what will be his agony! what•will mv mother suffer ! Will they notturn in their grief, and curse their child ?<f“ My Rosamond, my own belovedRosamond/' cried Henry, “ your happi¬ness is my life ; for I live but to promoteit; your will, my law; your wish, ayman-date. Rest but to-day ; and by this eve,1 swear to bear you where you will."Ere long they were again mounted.The roads to Godstow and to Londonwere both direct, though in different di¬rections ; but as the horse was led forthat the back of the dwelling, Rosamondnever noticed the direction he took, androde contentedly on, though every steptook her further from the abode ot herparents." Whither have you carried me?" sheexclaimed, as they passed over the Strandthen a barren track ; “ and what riveris that which rolls beside us ? there is17no such stream around my fathersdwelling.“ . u“ Be satisfied; for you are safe,“ criedHenry.They passed through the gate of thecity, (now Temple-Bar,) and turning tothe right, were instantly amid the Clois¬ters of the Knights Templars. In therecesses of the Temple the prince hadprepared a dwelling; and thither theyinstantly flew. Fatigue had again sub¬dued the gentle fair one, and her loverleft her to repose. When she awokeshe repeated her entreaties to be sent toher parents.“ Would you leave me, then ?“ criedHenrv, “ me who can resign the pagean¬try of a throne for you!—Oh ! my gen-tie love, who breathes of sweetness to allelse, he not so cold to me !““ Call it not coldness,“ replied Rosa¬mond ; “by my virgin faith, the love 1bear you cannot be excelled ;—the blushthat rises on my cheek attests it;—butoh ! mV Henry, my heart is heavy withmy parents woes : of them I now miistthink.’41 /voi..! I“ Refresh thee, love,“ cried Henry,“ and chase these thoughts :lC and he• ' ../c- ; ..-a ,j18handed her the goblet, filled with therichest vintage, as he spoke.The curfew mandate extended evento the habitation of the prince, and everylight was extinguished ; the pale beamsof the moon, alone, fell upon their facesas they sat—the solitude, the calmnessof the hour, gave a charm to all. Henryapproached, not as the conscious lover,who deemed her all his own, but as thehumble suitor, who feared offending,when he came to bliss her.“ We are the victims of fate, my be¬loved Rosamond/-' he cried; ‘‘but thetime will come, when all shall be ourown. When Stephen is in his grave, asovereign's love shall bid all sorrow cease,and England hail fairRosamond as queen."‘Twas in vain that she spoke of LordClifford. “ He will forgive the means,when he beholds the end“, cried Henry,“ and bless the deed that made his daugh¬ter Empress of this Isle. Do you doubt.my -word ?“ Oh ? no, no, no, “ cried Rosavnnd“ I have no doubts, no fears; your loveI know, and I judge it by my own.“‘‘Then my soul‘s treasure," cried theenraptured prince, “ doom not that loveto such long, needless pangs—come be19my own ; to morrow’s sun shall join ourhands, if that be your desire—to nightbe mine,“Lost to a sense of all but one being, onethought, and one hope, she sank to sleepin the arms of her seducer.Where love has fixed his throne, ittakes little >-kill to chase away tire griefof a wounded heart—the Prince renewedhis vows, and Rosamond, too fond todoubt, was satisfied.In after years, Lord Clifford discoveredhis daughter in the mistress of the king,but he could not wrest her from him ;and the same concealment that protectedRosamond from the fury of the queen,withheld her from the fondness of afather.Day passed after day, and he foundnew pretences to delay the marriage ;and at length Rosamond gave birth to ason. The hour of travail had scarcelypassed, when news of Stephen's deathcalled Henry hence.Days, weeks, months, passed away,and the fatal truth at length came uponher heart—she should never be the wifeof Henry—another was to bear that title !Eleanor of France, who had been divorc¬ed from her husband for infidelity, was20 Nalready betrothed, and would soon beunited to the monarch of England.Rosamond pressed her babe to herbreast: in mute agony when the newsreached her. “ Gome, my Richard,“ sheexclaimed, “ come to the heart thy fa¬ther's falsehood s broken !—sleep on, myboy, though thy mother sleeps no more;—slumber, my little treasure ; thou artall that is left me now—the lovely relictof faded bliss, the living; and beauteouspledge of a faith that is forgotten nowAt this time she received the followingnote from Henry. '‘ Stern necessity may rule the ban—But noGthe heart. I was never morethine own than now. Do not hate mb,but believe in the unquenched love ofhim whom fate has for awhile taken fromthee. “ Henry.“ The sinking wretch,” says the pro¬verb; “ cateheth' at a straw so does thedropping heart sustain itself on the mostslender hope.—There was comfort evenin this scroll, and Rosamond washed itwith tears of joy.With her two babes Rosamond nowpassed her hours, declining any furtherinterview with her father; but Henry atlength forced himself into her presence.21—It was a dreadful moment for both.The anger that was on his brow, as heentered, faded, and shame wrote herblushes there. Indignation for an in¬stant glowed in the face of Rosamond;but it fled, anddhe reproach of a pallidbrow was all that greeted Henry. Theygazed on one another. The gentle heartof Rosamond relented; she read herlover's airgviish in his glance ; and, throw¬ing h erself upon his neck, in one gush oftearsy spoke her forgiveness.The King passed his hours with Rosa¬mond, and his frequent and long' ab¬sences at length aroused the jealousy ofthe Queen. There were not wantingthose about the court who were glad tofoment dissensions ; rumour followed ru¬mour : scandal, who builds upon a breath;framed tales that reached the royal ear,and Henry's quiet was now invaded bythe reiterated upbraid irtgs of his consort;she, who, from her violence, had attainedthe title of the She-w6lf of France, wasnot of a nature to brook the royal neglectwith patience or humility.Alarmed for the safety of Rosamond,for Eleanor threatened her life, Henrv' *resolved to remove her to a distance; andthe Palace of Woodstock offered a safe22asylum. But a lover’s mind pictures athousand fears ; and Henry scarceythought the massy walls of Woodstock asufficient protection against the malice ofthe Queen and her emissaries. There wasat that period at the court, a young Nor¬man, named Theodore D’Agueville, whowas skilled in architecture and design ;and to him he committed the task of forti¬fying this retreat for Rosamond.—Theo¬dore however proved false to his trust,and revealed to queen Eleanor, the secretof Rosamond's abode.. To the gardens also D’Agueville di¬rected his attention : bower intersectedbower ; grove returned itself into grove,which were so intermingled with falseand real turnings and passages, thaitbecame nearly impossible to unravel theroad ; the mystery was, however simpli¬fied by marking the trees differently onthe two sides—this mark, so minute asto escape even a close investigation, yetsufficiently distinct to strike instantlythe well informd eye, was the only clueto the labyrinth.The best refutation to the absurd storythat a silken clue led to the differentwindings of the grove, or the apartments,is, that silk was not then in use in thiseoun; rv.23In this secure retreat, amidst all theblandishments that wealth could give,and love enjoy, Henry and Rosamondpassed many delightful and happy hours.I reason, however, gained such anascendancy that it became necessary thatHenry himself should quell it. Takingleave therefore of Rosamond, he prepar¬ed to depart for Normandy.No sooner was the King beyond thesea, than Theodore D’Agueville, intro¬duced queen Eleanor into Rosamond’sapartment.You are indeed fair ! “at length criedthe Queen : “ goodly to the sight but foulwithin! Aye, look on me, strumpet!I am she, whom through life thou hasbeen wronging.—We never met till nowbut I have cause to know thee.“Speak, what is your wish ?“« ‘‘0h!. Your death !“ was the reply.Here is a dagger—here a poisonedbowl ; if you dare not strike, drink, andbe at peace. Nay, do not quail, or I willgive the blow.”Spare me a little yet!“ cried Rosamondiis fit I die,“ quoth Rosamond:and yet I cling to life. But grant, yournajesty, one moment, ere you send meo end a long account of sin in eternalorments “The Queen was silent and she con¬tinued—I was young, and not unlovely. ThePrince proffered me his heart—his hand—and d believed his vows. He ruinedme, ere you had seen him. Time passed,and he was wedded.—-I awhile withstoodhis suit, nor yielded to his wishes; but amother's weakness and a mother's fearssubdued me;—to save my children, Ibecame a wretch ! Humbly I bend beforeyou; I ask no life to revel on in sin ; nordare 1 hope, even while I implore forgive¬ness.^—Tut thihk ye, lady 'tis a bitter thingo rush we know not, dream not whither ;—not for mine, but for my soul's sake,spare me ! and I swear, I in a closter's'walls will veil'.my face, far from the sightof him who has undone me."The beauty, the meekness of Rosa¬mond, won upon the heart'of the Queen—the weapon dropped from her halt’d.Rosamond inade a solemn vow, neverto: gee Henry more, but to enter theNunnery of Godstow; and the Queenquitted her.She died in the year 1191, aged 57.; bnomiiffoH iboup'THE END.bnoe uo ( tm duo uom on {y ajui