LETTER,COPY OF AWRITTEN BYThe Rev. Mr. William Barlas,Late minister of the gospel of the anti¬burgher CONGREGATION, WHITEHILL,PARISH OF NEW DEER,TOJEAN WALKER.Jean Walker, Whitehill, May 12. 1798.IT is no eafy matter to a£l properly in the hour andpower of temptation. I have often hefitated withmyfelf about the propriety of writing to fuch a perfonas you. We are commanded to do good to our ene¬mies, and pray for them that defpitefully ufe us; but,by the fame authority, we are forbid to call pearls be¬fore fwine. While the firft is very difficult, it is oftenattended with happy effe&s; the laft, is eafy, but im¬proper and hurtful. After much thought, I have re-; folved to write you a few lines, and leave the effects1 with the Lord— When you left Whitehill, I enjoyedII the neceflaries and conveniences of life, and a houfew which I could call my own: you have deprived me ofI: them all, and reduced me, that I have no where to lay; my head. When you went away, I was engaged injlthe work of the miniftry, to which I had devoted *ny-lifelf from my youth; but at your inftance, I am depofed•rfrom that office. If I am not miftaken, preaching Chrillwas dearer to me than life itfelf; but owing to you en-kirely, my mouth was ffiut, and hath never been openedpgain; fo that, inftead of proclaiming the great falva-•.ion, I muft be filent, at your foie inftance. You havedone all you could to ruin the Congregation of White-liill, which, to all appearance, was in a very flouriflnngsituation, an individual or two excepted,—fuch as Wm.ipavidfon and John Spence. The people here wereyR. Rettie, Printer, 1 ( Price One Penny. — kd.| Aberdeen, J \pcrdoz.—$s.peTgrofs,■ ; a ' i 2 ]happy in a minifter whom they loved dearly ; but, aidedby Mr. Mitchell and your lawyer, with inconceivableviolence you have torn their minifter from them j youhave given the Lord’s intereft fuch a ftroke, as it willnot recover in this generation; you have caufed manya filent Sabbath, and made many a forrowful heart;the dreadful effecfts of your blow are innumerable.Much have I faid and thought about the direful waysand depravity, and defperate wickednefs of the humanheart,—but your wickednefs, by many degrees exceedsall the ideas I had ever formed of it.. While here, youwas with child, and denied it moft bitterly; you pre¬tended a dropfy; you conftantly dealt with dodlors open¬ly, and, as I am informed, lately fecretly bought drugsfrom J. B. to procure abortion. You was often prayedfor in the family, as a very diftrefled perfon in it; whenin travail, you aftedfed to be dying, and fent for meto pray with you : I tried to commend you to God, asone in the agonies of death. You may fport withdeath, but it will not fport with you. How can youthink of mocking that God, to whom thole prayerswere addrefled ! Whatever you may think, it is myopinion, and the opinion of very many, that youare guilty of the wilful murder of your own child,and have brought blood upon your head. The foulof the youngeft, is of equal value in the fight of theFather of fpirits as the oldeft : What if your child pe-rifhed eternally, through your not letting it live to-hear of the great falvation ? Awful thought! To mycertain knowledge, you have brought their death onmany, through inexpreffible forrow and anguifli ofheart: in my opinion, your conduit to me is worfethan if you had cpt my throat, or employed fome oi:your relations, whom you heard fo often call merdamned rafcal, to {hoot me. Whatever you may faylyou well know, and will know to your coft, that I anjas innocent of your charge as any man in die world |. c 3 3Srnd yet you liave injured the innocent, and {creenedthe guilty; by which conduct you have endangeredthe ruin of his foul to all eternity -r and if he penrifh,his blood will be in a great mcafure required at yourhand. You have mocked an omnipotent God j finnedwilfully, and wronged your own foul. You have mif-led the courts of Chrilt, and grieved the godly; ypuhave brought the guilt of many oaths before theP——ry on your head ; and fome of them were ft rangedepofitions indeed. You have been the fource of awhole flood of falfehoods, which hath Ailed the coun¬try •,* you have made moft diabolical returps for thegreateft kindnefs, and are a monfter of ingratitude;you have, without the leaft caufe, made me fuffer morein one month, yea in one week, than I could makeany perfon in the world to conceive ; you have mifim-proved the belt privileges and opportunities, withoutthe fhadow of provocation: nay, after the greateft:kindnefs, you have done to me as I could never havedone to a brute creature : you have done your worft.Though Satan fhould get full pofleflion of your body,as he teems to have got of your heart, you can do meno more ill than you have done ; and ill as you havedone to me, you have done ftill worfe to religion : butno man can reckon up your ills; no, not the hundrethpart of them •, your wickednefs furpafleth all my com-prehenfion. But God will fooner or later fet them allin order before you. Well, it is no matter, a littletime will clear up all: at the moft, our life here is buta vapour, and this world’s ills will foon be- over : if inthis life only I had hope, I would be of all men moftmiferable : Awful, Endlefs Eternity is before us ! yea,there is an hereafter: then matters will be fet to rights :there is a God, who judgeth rigbteoufly; there is aheaven, into which the godly are received after all theirfufteriugs ; there is a hell, into which the wicked fhall; be turned: then thofe words in the Revelation will be. _ C 4 1ftriclly accomplifhed; « Murderers, whoremongers,all liars, and whofoever loveth and maketh a lie,te fliall have their part in that lake which burneth with“ fire and brimftone.” It feems your confcience isfall afleep, and feared up, as with a hot iron j but itwill not always fleep; no, as far as I can judge, youhave fold yourfelf to work wickednefs, above all Iever knew or read of* unlefs I fhould except Judas,and two or three more. In all likelihood I will neverfee you in this world, till we meet again at the tri¬bunal ; there I will get juftice, though I have got noneat the church courts. Mr. Mitchell’s malice, and yourlawyer’s libels, will be of no avail there; there, OJean Walker, before an omnipotent God; before theLord Jefus Chrift, whom I preached unto you; andwhom I mentioned fo folemnly to you in the Seflion ofWhite Stones ; before all the holy angels ; before allthe devils in hell; before all who witnefied the tryingfcenc you brought on me at the Prefbytery fince, thevery remembrance of which makes me fhudder to thisday : in fhort, before all the v/orld, good and bad,you will be made to declare the father of your child.There I will Hand by fully acquitted; and as youfigned yourfelf a liar in feme feflions held by Mr. Tay¬lor, where John Spence and William Davidfon werethe chief agents, you will again, before all the world,allow the character in all your charges againft me.Mr. Mitchell, whom you have made fo inltrumental inruining me, will be there; your lawyer, whom youhired to accufe me, will be there ; and your particularfriends, whom I lhall not name, wall all be there.Though there was no getting William Gibb, JohnSpence, and John Anderfon, to hear you at WhiteStones, they will hear you well enough that day, andbelieve you too. The father of your child will, un¬lefs grace prevent, that day curfe you to your face ;and you and he will go away into everlafting  [ 5 1Every day and hour which you continue in your pre-fent courfe, you are treafuring up wrath againft theday of wrath ! and, oh ! what a vaft treafure of it youare making for yourfelf ! and you will get it all. Howyou think to reckon with the Judge of all, for your in¬calculable and accumulated guilt, exceeds conception ;God is ftill as holy and omnipotent as when the earthopened and fwallowed up his enemies j when Uzzahwas ftruck dead for touching the ark ; or when Anna-nias and Sapphira perifhed in a moment for lying tothe Holy Ghoft. You do not believe the Bible, elfethe many threatnings would alarm, arraign, and ter¬rify you : one thing I am abfoiutely fare of, viz. If atany time you {hall in earneft think of feeking faringmercy from God, the defolation you have brought onWhitehill; the hurt you have done to religion, and thegodly; and the fingular, unparalleled injury you havedone me; will fill your heart with terror, your foulwith anguifh, your confcience with agony, and yourmouth with confeffion. In the nature of things, it isimpoflible you can pray for mercy, without confelikmof fuch enormous and unheard-of guilt: but I fear youhave finned the fin unto death ; the day will declare :you are ftill alive : it is my fettled opinion, that youwill never be allowed to go off this earth without a vi-; fible ftroke,—a ftroke that will confound you, and afto-•nifh all my enemies. Twelve months ago, and up-; wards, I laid different times, to many different people,' with great ferioufnefs, that whoever efcaped a vifibleftroke, Margaret Mackie and Jean Walker would not:as to her, my words have not fallen to the ground, andthey will not fall to the ground about you. If it bel true that {he and you, and John Anderfon, and fomel others, entered into a deliberate plot to accufe, it was; a moft finifhed and execrable piece of wickednefs, and’ will not pafs unpunifhed. Nelly Mackie fays, that her1 Gffer faid it to her; and that ihe added, “ Since I en-U 6 ]<c engaged in it, I have not profpered; it will depriveme of reafon, and life itfelf, and fink me into hell for“ ever.” This Nelly Mackie told repeatedly to SophiaSeaton and others. Oh, inconceivable wickednefs ! Atany rate, before file died, fhe was a terror to herfelf,and all around ; often in extreme defpair did fire cryout, that fhe had ruined Whitehill, and removed thegofpel: you have done that effedtually. Awful washer fcreeching and roaring, at James Clark’s and manother places ; her horror was inexpreffible ; and her'death awful! !! I am greatly miftaken if yours, foonor later, be not as ill; your day is faft coming; itjwill come, it will come : fhould they join hand ihand, and do their utmoft, the vwhole world cannokeep fuch a finner and monller of iniquity as you fromDivine vengeance. Befides all the other parts of yourdreadful load of guilt, you have a fhare,—no finalfhare,—of Margaret Mackie’s blood on your headand though fhe is firft dead, when your turn comesfhe will have a fhare of yours. You may keep up :while ; fentence is not always fpeedily executed againfan evil work ; but always certainly; God will not b«mocked. True, it is the glory of the gofpel whichjpreached to you, that it offereth falvatioit to the chiejof finners; but that falvation, though long in yooffer, you have utterly defpifed; and that gofpel, whic.loffer's it, you have tried to ruin. Well I fettled th1terms with you at Craigdam, and took High wiftreflesif you have forgot them, God will put you in mind clthem ; they are as follows : I folemnly engaged to tak|,all the bad effedfs and confequences which had fojrowed, or which .would follow, qn myfelf, and be ac|countable for them, and entirely free you, if I h:either the leafl knowledge of your guilt, or that yowas with child, or that I was the father; but if I winnocent, injured, and falfely accufed, I folemnly lai-ii the blame on you, find left you to anfwer for all tlI 7 ]bad effe£l&, , Mind, by thefe I abide. I told you then,too, that notwithftanding pretences, you knew thetime of your delivery as well as ever any woman did ;for no entreaty would perfuade you to flay at NewDeer. Putting all your conduct together, it confti-tutes the molt complicated and confummate wicked-nefs to be found in the annals of the human race. Oh,what an inconceivable load of guilt lies on you ! Oh,what a hideous monfter of wickednefs and deceit! I*there a God ? is he righteous and juft ? Yes, yes.Continuing as you are, you will not only perilh, butthe common damned will fhun your fociety, as fiends, lefs foul. I might addrefs you as Paul did Elymas theforcerer, A£ts xiii. to.; “O! full of all fubtility,”I &c. And what have you gained ? You have gratifiedI; the pride of your relations by accufing me, and evenii that poorly; for not one in an hundred but fees thej plot, and holds them and you in abhorrence; the« country at large abominates you, and your band ; here-iii after your relations themfelves will, by all appearance,|j curfe you to your face bitterly without ceafmg ! It isin no light matter to tear a minifter from his office and|1 from his charge ! ! ! Inafmuch will the exalted JudgeI one day fay in your hearing, “ As you did if to the;3 “ lead of thefe, ye did it unto me.” Oh what a large1 gnawing worm will pounce on your heart and confci-I ence to all eternity, by all appearance !—I want no an-! fwer from you: my eyes, I think, {hall never lookI upon any thing wrote by you. It was a piece of un¬paralleled cruelty and wickednefs in you, to write tothis houfe, and at the roup : my eyes never faw itfrom the time it was given in, as well as a hint, that] fome heard from your friend who carried it, that itj was fufpedted to be from fome of tffie band ; it was;] taken and burnt unread before witnefs : witneffes whofaw it given, opened, and burnt, in one minute oftime. If you have any thing to write, either acquit-[83 , jt*iig or accufuig me, fend it to Clola or Clochcan, Croi?. |gight or Macduff, or you may fend it to your friend jL. —Well aware now of what you can do, to prevent jfalfe reports, and that you may do no injury to this Iletter, I leave exaft copies of it in different perfons ihands; make any ufe of it you pleafe. I lodge it in Jyour confcience •, which you well know is on my fide, jjand againft you *, I have no fear but it will fpeak for 'me in due time. By a folemn oath, I have ended thecontroverfy between you and me; in the moll folemnmanner I have applied to the Searcher of hearts, andhe will determine the controverfy. You muft eitheraccufe another man, or live to your dying hour underthe fcandal of fornication, and dreadful fin and fcan-dal of accufing an innocent man. I have given autho¬rity to diffetent perfons to profecute, before the Courtof Judiciary, the man, or fet of men, who would talkwith you about being abfolved in my name—inftead ofdoing it. I have alfo taken a written bond from them,that they fhall do as I have appointed ; it is but to guidaall our affairs with diferetion to the end. George Fuliehath dole enough from me already—“ who deals my« purfehe and you have tried to “ rob me of my« good name.” I have had too much trouble from youalready, I fhall have no more—and write ye no more.I’now leave you in the hand of an omnifeient and holy,and jud God ; vengeance is his, and he will take care ofyou. I warn you never to think, hear, or fpeak about |Whitchill, without minding, that you have made it a iJefolation, and that the weight lies on your (boulders; |Numbers xxxii. 23.IF. Rettie, Printer, Long Acre, Aberdeen.