COUNSELSTOYOUNG MEN:IN A LETTER9fFROMA FATHER,I t• V •TOHIS SON.S'- • . •iiappy is the rnan t^at findeih wtsJo n and themaa that petteth underitanding. Prow iii. 13STIRLING:Prhittu,audSold by C* Randall, iSio*C fKU N S E L Sr O U N G M E N.All south, fet right at firjl, ft ith cafe go on.And each tierv tnjh u ivhh new plepfure done ;But if negteFced till (hey gro w in xturs,And each jond n.o'her, her dear darling /pares,tir. or becomes habitual and you'll find,7Bis then hard labour to reform the mind,*rpHE point of life at which you are nowarrived is a very interrefting one ; andI truft you feel th^t it is lo. T Iheuld havea much, lowei opinion, both of your under-flanrdng and your heart, that 1 am inclinedto entertain ; if I could fuppofe you felt anyemotions on leaving a father’s houfe en-deareJ to you by fo many pleating iecolreC-tiors, and entering upon a new Icene oflife, in which you have fo many importantint^refts dependingThe prefent my dear foil, is to you aferious moment It cahs upon you to re-flett, to deliberate, and to refolve Launch¬ing forth, as you are, into the wide oceanof the world, where you tnuft rely for fafety% *3n-ion your own judgment, prudence, and'firmnefs, much more than upon the wifjomor kindnefs of others *, where every thing1 will depend upon your judging rightly and: adfing well * you Ihould noxv make it youri fifft buftnefs to fix upon fuch a plan of con-ducl, as you may purfue with iecurity andadvantage through the remainder of yourlifeEducation and example have already1 taught you to love vir ue ; habit has inclin-! ed you to revere her authority, and obey herI laws ; and you fet out in life with a happy: bias towards that which is right and good,« and ' truft too with a determined purpofe,I to adhere to it as long as you live But ini order to render you Heady and inflexiblei in your good refolutions it is neceffiiry thati you Orould be apprised of Tome difficulties,i and vrarned of lome hazards, which youi mutt expect to meet with ; and in order toi affift you in making the greaterl advantage1 to your talents and opportunities, it may beof ufe to furnifii you with certain rules, crprecepts for your direction in the conductof life The counsels which I mean toi; offer you will therefore be naturallyI dailed under the two general heads ofcaution and advice: cauiio , withrelpedtto things which are to be avoided ; advice,with refpe/t to things which are to bepur fued.4 .The firft caution which I fhall rive rctiis this: Be rot eatily i er<’uade:i to abuxto-oyour principle. It is not my intenticn 1 ythis caution to difcour.tge you in the 'freeinquiiy after truth: principles which willnot hear examining, are not worth' retaining.It is the indjfpeufibie duty, as well as theunalienable right of every rational being*to prove all things ’’ that he rtvay in therefult, “ hold ta V that w'hich is good.”Review, as accurately as you have oppor¬tunity the grounds of thofe religious andmoral principles in which you have r>ecueducated , examine all npihions dTars ailqueftions as free!v as you *leafe Perfectfreedom in the binh-right of inan ■ andHeaven forbid, that any human authorityfhould infringe or reftrain it! But in thecxercife of th « right,the modelh and diicre tIf the principiet, which in the courfe ofyour education you have embraced, haveappeared to you fup: orted bv fohd rr-| uinents and fatisfa&ory evidence continueto regard them as true, till arguments more'did, and eviuenct more larisfo£tory, onthe ether fide oblige you to relirquifhthem ; and before you part with any ar'icleof your creed, b* veiy certain that you donot miftake redicule cr fbphiftry for foundre Tbning,My next caution is: Be not aihamed of !your principles, nor afraid to follow them. ,1 Diffidence h, to r. certuin degree, ain amiablequality in young people As far as iti mplies didruff of their o.\vn powers in diffi*cmt juudertahvags, or of tiieir own under-ffandings in doub-'ful que'.fions, it is a plea-: ling proof of inedei'y . out it is carried toa cuipaoie excels wlaen it leads them to aciwardly ceieruoi of crutfi and virtue.When a yo '.ng man dates not avow lv«reverence for rfcli^ipn <{V his relpeft fordecorunt, m the pfe)e»iM of the 1 titiousand proll gate ; v nen inflead of alDrtinghis principle with firmnefs, he prelerves atimid .ai d dilgraeeful lilence, wniltt hehears-them dilcUimcd and ridiculed , ftiiimore, when he yields to the current, fo faras to join in the profane language, andpartake of the guilty practices of U;s com¬panions, modefty degenerates into f-dfc de¬licacy and criminal iha ne 1)0 not ima'-giue that fuen bale compliances can bejuTtincd or excufed, on the plea oi civilityand good bree mg L’he piinciples whichyour reafon and judgment approve avowthem boldly, and a.t .-ere to them hedfaltly ■,nor let any falle notion* oi honour, or piti¬ful ambition of flai ling, ever entice you toiorfake tiiem Do Whit you judge to bsright, ivhatever others may th nk of you iand learn to defpife alike, the praiie and thecenlure of bad men.'Let me caution tou, in the next place,Not to luifer foorlelf to be impofed upon byfalle appearances cf pleasure. youn^man, whan lie fir ft efcapes from the eye ofhis parents, and islet free from the fkacklesof autlicrity, is apt t’c imagine that ilower»of delight will Vpring'uij'' under his feetwherever he goes,: and is- loth to believe itpoffible that he can rove - into any pathwhere he will tread t'pbn thorns. 1 He givesnn eafy credit to every flattering promifeof erj *»tnenti and fahefes that he fes hap-pineis under every form of pleafure Andthe fond dreams which are produced in hisown deluded imaginations, are nVo often'• 1 ^ ‘ . it v 4yotteree oy me armii fopkiflry cf libertinedeceivers; who endeavour to pei fuade him,that the limitations prescribed to the indul-gent4* of appetite, by the laws of God, orthe inliituu'ons cf fociety, are levere andunneccu’u y reliraints, and that he is the wil-liftand happieft man, vchotooneft etmncip^teshimfeif from the. prejudices of education,and gives the freett icope to his inclinations-lielieve me my ion, or rather believe thetf ftimony of univerfel experience, when youare allured that the fair promdes.cf licer(-tious plrafure are fallacious, and that everyexpectation you may entertain ot happmeisbeyond the boundary of virtue, will mvite-ably difappoint you. In order to convinceycuiit 1: of this, witheut making the danger-7I ous experiment, you need only recoiled1 this pLiin maxim, that where there is, on; the whole more pain than pleafure, therei can be no happintis By obferving what is; paffing in the world,, inform yourfelf whetherit ne not too certain to admit of difpute,that licentious and criminal pleafure is na-; rurally- procuftive of infamy, difeafe, po¬verty. and remorle to the immediate tranf-grefl’ors.; .that it tends to the entire annihi¬lation of ail the dcmeftic afte&ions andthat it introduces cndlefs diforder and con-I fulion into evil fociety. if you find ail thisl to be true, and y;,u need not lock fav! abroad to convince you that it is fo—youi' will acknowledge that moralifts and pxecep-i tors have fome reafon for inveighing againlfc^S licentious pleafure *, and you will be fen-fible that parents who love rheir childrenhave fome occalion for foiicitude, that theymay be preferved from fo dangerous a fnare.Remember iihe maxim of a ancient fage j*f The love of plealureis a temporary mad-nels.’'Another caution, of Isis confequcnce indeed than the preceding, but by no meansunworthy of your intention is Beware ofprodigality. Generosity is in young perfons? lo raturah and to own the truth, fo amiablea quality that I would be very cireful notto difeourage it. Within the limits of hon-efty and diferetion, let ij, have free {cope,8But the transition from penerofity to cire-iefsnefi of expence, and from this to down¬right extiavagance, is to eaty erp-cially’'vith the youngt that the caution I now give♦ou is by nq means unneceffary Many ayoung nerfon, by indulging the habit liasvfi.fi/td an ample patrimot v, and plungedhhr.feif into ii tx'i icable difficui ies ; whilifothers, with the fame temper but withoutniual refourfes, have.cah the tur*en oftheir extravagance upon horell tracesmenjwhom they have robbed of thtir property,in a method,fomev hat more circuitous, bqt• ertainly nqt Ids iniquitous than if theyhad been guilty of theft or plunder, intafes the molt favourable this dilpoiitionprevents more atvantageous applications ofwealth, and CibArudhs the ulcfuA and meri¬torious rxercite cf gereroftty in offices ofhumanityOn the contrary, let me caution you.—foi in the pi dent times there is io^-e necef-fity for cautioning ovon the > oung not toimlplge an avaricious temper Avarice is in¬deed commonly conlidercd as the peculiarvi<;e of old age; and, perhaps the rove' ofmoney, as inch, is feLcm found to takepeffilion of thr hsac.t-.in early life. ’But inan age, when riches attract/iuch untverfalattenaon, when Jo much vahie is placedupon the dtcoiprions which they procure,and when they are rendered in fuch a vari-^ 9ft* of ways fa^ferri’Tit to ainufi’.nent an3pleafurc; it c&^no.. -ipp-ar fubfervient iftvirn youf > peHon-; art* frequently infeftedwith a fordid flrift of gain, and earlv learnto facrifice choir tender ?.ff ctions, an 1 eventh-dr geoerotisfvirtue* on the altar of wealth.Lrt it net t1-erf’he thought unneceflarv or un-ftafonabie, if f’earneffly exhort you, nvdearft>n, #ho'are as yet ilhhabni ;d in' the waysct the A»orlii. to bewdrC leil: Vbu be fedueed.from ymir fimplicitr, aiii.frob!i .\d 'of your inte-[ grity by the reducing attractions of wea th.Fo thele cautions it is necefFary to add.i Beware of indtilgittg a habit of indolence.I Not with ftarding that natural vigour andi activity which fo peculiarly diltinguillaesI the period of youth, rhat it might almoli:Ifeem to (bpercede the neceffity of this cau¬tion, it is found in faft that many youngperfons, either through (ome mifmanage-ment in their education or through a na-1 turai fluggiftinels of uilpolition, fa l into aniinvicible habit of indolence Thole whoare confcious of any proprnfities of thiskind, cannot be too careful not ro indulgethem ; lor when once the !one of the mindis relaxed by (loth it is (carccly pofiiale toreiiore it On the molt favourable fup-pofition which can be madet it mult ue ex-p 6ted that a young man to whom idol-erice is fo far become habitual, that he tiudsa pleaiurc m idle fauhterLrg or tonal inac-TOtion will be irdifferent to every laudablsjiurfuit, ar.d incapable of every manly andgenerous exertion, A mere blank in thecreation, he will drag on a tedhjus exiltence,without benefit to the world, without creditor affection among his acquaintance, andeven without perfonal enjoyment But itmay be nyuch apprehended, that the con-1'eqlienee will be ftdl worfe, There is,in thehuman mind luch a powerful fpring oc ac¬tivity, that it cannot long remain whollyunoccupied If it be not engaged in femeufeful employment, it will be realty tolifien to every lolicitation of appetite orfancy.Be always bufy for feme purpofe eitherof profit of ufefulnefs, or at lead of inno¬cent amufement Never think of hncingany graiiiicafion in doing nothing finetenure bv which we hold our exigence is,that we fhould be induflrious Labour isthe price we mull pay for riches, fame,knowledge, virtue and happinels Thinkthen, for what ends you were created ;think what you owe to yourl’elf. to yourfriends, and to vour country. ‘ think thattune has golden minu :es, if difcrectly feized/*and let them not be Lvifhed away in un¬productive iulcnefsThe laft caution v-hich I fhall.offer youis, Avoid bud company. This c..ution isperhaps of mere .xtenlive meaning, and ofTIImote coniequence, than you may at firftapprehend, By bad company I underftandall fuch perfons as would either be likelyto corrupt your morals," or in any other wayto injure your reputation, or hinder yourimprovement. Vicious company, however,is that which above all other you fhould becareful to avoid Whatever confidence youmay be inclir.ed to place in your own goodhabits and fixed refolmions, be affured, itwill fcarcely be poifible that you fiiouldoften affbeiate with the profligate withoutbeing infected by their corrupt principlesand lirentmus manners. You might asfoon expect to lake fire into your bofom• and not be burned, as to become the ini-imte companion and friend of bad men. andnot partaker of their vices. Afiure yourfi Ifmy dear for., your only fafety from fuchdangerous enemies lies in flight If 7- u• think it of any importance to preferve yourinnocence, and to 1 ecu re your peace of mine;,your credit and profpenty in the. world,and our happinels through every period ofyour cxiftence, avoid—I do net fay allintercourfe with bad men, for rhiv couldi’taicely be done in the moft folitary retire¬ment but certainly all iu i nacy a: d par¬ticular fricndfliip with tht'm: tor, “"evilcomnpunications,” naturally, and aimofl: in",evitably, *' corrupt good mannerso the CGuncei s of Caution relpefl-ing things, which it will be your vdidom andT-2duty to avoid, allow me, my dear for, toadd certain Hints of A-Dvice, refpectinjjthe means by which vou may attain iotelr*JeOual and mera! rxeellence, a'’d fccure trueand Jading {ViicuyAnd here, my firft advice—a due atten¬tion to which will prepare the way for everyw’fe purpofe, and manly exertion— is, Beambitious of excelling, There is a naturalardour in voung minds, which needs onlyto be well directed in order to produce thehappieft effects. There is moreover, anrxcufable vanity common among youngpeople, which under proper managementmay be turned to good account At yourentrance on the world, does your bolomplow with the chfire and hope of diftine-tioi. ? CJierifh the generous flams Are vouunab'e entirely to rife above the natural in¬firmity of thinking too well of yourfelf ?Convert it imo a motive to vigorous exertion,in the purfuit of high attainments in what¬ever is laudable \Vbiift other young per-fons are conceited of their prefent talentsand acquifiticns, be rou my fon. emuh usof the higheft degree of excellrnce. Letme entreat you, dear fon, to keep con¬tinually in view the wife detign. of mak¬ing vcurfelf as perf.dta1 d happy as pofiible jthe goon j urpefe of bring emineutly ulefulin the woiid ; and the laudable end, ofdoing credit to your family ami ctuintdlicns3,3to you? country, an-i to your nature ; and1 "t thefe objrcl? infpire you with even grow¬ing ardour in the career of meritAttend dilli?en‘ly to the divine precept,“ Know thysei f ” This precept not onlyrequires a general knowledge of powers| and interefts of human nature but a par¬ticular acquaintance with your own powersand.your own intetefts. E rim^te with asmuch accuracy as you can the flreng||h of| your abilities, in order to know in what un-ider^akings you may engage with a fair pro-: babibty of fuccefs and what would be un-ifuitab'e tb your talents or above your ca-ipacky Obferve attentively the natural turnj^of your difpofif‘on and temper that younmay difeover where it ,is chiefly neceflaryto be upon your guard Remark diflinflly" the ronntftions in which you are placed,lUhe ftation you hold in ibciety and v^.. cir-pcutn(ta5«ces, whether favourab'e, or other-1".wife, which attend you t that you may beI apprized both of your difliculties a^.d youratfvantagts . and that by providing againft.dthe former and improving the latter, yoummay make the molt of your fituatio i 'heKbetter vou are acquainted with yourlclf thenmore likely you will :e to leyfcove pioprictyano conflftercy or cTarafter ;   tire more: effeftuallv you will be guarded againfc con-! ceit ard presumption on the one hand, andjjagainft meaunefs and irrefolution on the, „ 14 .otner. A corfidenc';, becoming aroan’s ftaticn and char, dlcr, i* the natural |effect ot fell knnwledpeBe it ycur nest care, my fon, to learnand exercife ielt-comn;and, the differencebetween one man and another, both withrelpeet to wifdo-a and happinels, chiefly |ccnflfli in the dift’.rent degrees in which ,reafen, or pafllon, predominate* in theircharacters Blindly to follow the impulfeof appetirp anu inltinct, would be to degen¬erate into a flats perhCt y brutal. He whodoes not learn to govern his pafllons, will jinevitably become their, flave. That kind I;of dominion o\er yotirfelf which refptcfs |the ap. etites if abfoiutely neceffary to ie-cure you from ncuriv difquietand vexationBar btli. es tliefe there is a general habit Iof felt poff flion, and felf command, which :i earj^illy entreat or y»u to cultivate, as an iinexhautttble fesurity oi tranquility and anin ftimable advantage in the conducl of life- IV, hiilt the man who indulges a reftlels andimpetuous temper, is difturbed and agitatedb; everv trifling occurence, ruflies into ac- Itier precepirately, and vrithout due deiibera-tier, and oticn cxpofes'himfe'f to hazardswbuti might have ffrun ealily avoided, andplunges Lir.fdf into diflicui'tiei from whichno a t.r thought canuxtricjte him : he whohabituate- himielf torellraili and lubdue hisemotions, and to preferve his mind in a calm; and coilofted fute, will be prepared to feizeand imorovc favourable oppoi tunnies, omake ufe of every poffible precaution agairflimpending evils, and to mrst w’rn equa¬nimity the unavoidable v’c lli ude? of life.Add to this, that fuch a h-.nte an« ;om-pofed habit of mind will enable yo" to p o-! fecute tvhatever you und-T'.ake with iteadyrefoiution, and will do more to inp’re v mrfuccefs than eager, and rapid irnpetuof y.Perlevera-.ee accomplilhes mo^e than oie-, cipitatioo and there is much good ierd'ein the Perfian adage : ‘ t he patient nuie,which travels llowiv nia’nt and day, will in| the end. go farther than an r ibian com i :?At the hime tine u at you are diligentto know, and refolute ■n governing yourS’eji,-be careft 1 to a.ail yourfeif of the wstdona &experience of c ther rn-n This m < r be Ponei ei her by alkmg advice of inch friend as; you judge capable of giving vou goodcounlei, cr by Itudving uch writings as.] abound with moral wifaem l he latterr method will be xceedmgly ufaiul in fur. nilhing you with general princip es and par-ticuiar max-ms of conduft, and in prderv-ing you attentive to the important bull efsof moral improvement, dut in putcuiarcafes, where it iS r ill! ult to determine inwhat manner it may oe expedient to act,no guide can be fo ufeful as a jud eiou. andj expcrierced friend t?uard againft thatconceit whicn would deprive you of the be-neat of wife counfeis. It is great prrfum?-tron in anv o^e, aud •’fpecially in a wourigiran to be fo confident in his bwn judg¬ment. as to imapine that he can never needadvice- “ He that hearkens to counfel iswife/’Thus prepared enter, my ton upon theepurfe, of life which is . before you v. ith arletermired. rrfolutian \o let Reafon gobefore everv enterprise and Qcunfel beforeevery aftion ”As every man has or ought to have,fome occupation in life by which he maybenefit lumfelf a^d his inimsdiate connec-t*brs. srd be ufr*rd. to fociety, the choicecf an emnl •' oicnr and the manner in whichits offices are to bv executed, every voungmar rugftt to confide: as matters of greatimport nee If, by the unitfd aid of yourbwn iV'ij-kr.owiedge. and the judgments andexperience of your friends, tri importantchoice has been made in a manner ftitab'eto ymur talents ana natural difpofitions, voumay realonahly expeft that your em loy-mfrit will vfiord you i'atisfaddion, reput¬ation, and acivantage But that theexpeft-ations • ehich you will xaturally form at vourentrance on your pcileflion may not be frui-trated. teVe-al -tnorai and podentiat rulesmuft be carefuily obftrved On thi» point,let it be your firfi care never to engage inany p an of ouhnefs, or undertake any con¬cern, however profitable, which your heartI!17 . .condemns as oppreflive. injurious, or in any! other rdpeft dishonourable. “Remember,n:y d-ear ion, the world itfelf cannot offeryou a prizi which would not be too dearlypurchased at the expence of your honour; and integrity. My next advice, with re-! fpecl to buhnefs is fruft for fuccefs more; in your Ik id, induftry, honeily, and ptinc-i tuatity, than in any arts of addrofs, or any1 ingenious managerhfcnt which may promileI to gave you an advantage over your rivals.An obliging addrels, anu graceful manners,,l| hi ve doubtids a conlideraole effeft in win-i ning the attention and engaging th affsc-i tiohs of men, and therefore ought by noi means to be neg eftedi but after alt, thei world is common y too wile, at iead wherei invert ft is concerned, to be impaled upon1 bv more external flrow, and nothing willi fix and fecure their favour hat that fohdi merit on wlrich they can iafefy r.-.ly Make;; yourielf thoroughly mailer oi your employ-u meats ; be diligent .and afliduous in buunelr,ij be faithful anci punctual to your engage-n meats*, be regular and exacl in all yourl trani'a^tions, and it wiii be icarCcly poflioleIyou ihould not iucceed. One further cau¬tion I ihail add on this head ; which is. Nei¬ther be too much afraid of offending others,nor noop to flatiery and meaneis to gamHi their favour. Thele are methods of tlmv-ti ing, neither very virttious, nor very prudent,i '18 ’*• * For they feldcr»< procure lifting efteem,-or affection you will ftnd your vantageir onreavcuring to oblige men by eafycivilities and real ftervices: but if you gaintheir favour by. flattery you can keep it nolonger than you are willing to their flaresor their fools ”In your amuftmepts, my advice to you is,to be'select and temperate ; fekcl thatthey may ret feduce you into ^ny purfuits |unvvoi thy of a well in fir acted mind V andtemperate, that they may not interfere wuhyour more’ important labours, and yourhigher duties 'ihofe amufements aloreare eligible, wl ich by affording an e^fy andnleaftmt t:tertic>U of the bodily or mentalpowers, exhiiarafe the fplrifs withtut de¬praving the taftc, or corrupting the'heart.And of innocent amufements, thofe are tobe preferred which, at the lame time, thatthejr niiiwcr tire purpofe of relaxation fromfeverer purfuits, afford fome advantago»uscxercife cf the underftanding the imagina- Wation, ortm moral fealings.It is a moment of great moment, thatWyoung petfons fhould early accuftom them- Ilelves to fill up a confkerable portion of ijtheir leifure with reading Cultivate, my Ifon, a take tor re&cing, and you will And it Uai irexhauftibie fund of elegant amufcment>f|and improving occupation It wid enableyep to enjoy many a foiitary hour which* Lardnei’s Ccuyfcls of PrudenceIQ, aiiglit otherwif? hmg h: .vy upon youri|hands: it will furniih you with itores ofi] knowledge, which will qualify you to ap-jpear with credit and dcftinfticn in the com¬pany cf pcrfons of fenfe and education ; andit v id enlarge your capacity of ufefulaefs inthe fcveral connections of fociety. In orderto render your reading productive of thefe.advantages, be careful in your choice ofibooks, that your feelings be not debafed,nor your heart corrupted, by a kind of “ evilcommunication,” not his dangerous thanbad company ; and that your time be notwafted upon thefe infigniftcai t and triflingproductions, which convey no information,':J'~-3.1 exercifc "for the ima^n.}TQ HK7 —* 1:ation, and excite no manly, generous, andjivirtuous fentiments Be guided in this, bylithe judgment of thefe who have had further'pportunuies than yourfelf of knowing whatbooks are heft adapted to afford you elegantamufement and uleful infiruCtionAs a coniiderable portion of your timehvili of coiufe be fpent m company of vari-lous kinds, it may be of great uie to you,my dear fun, to be furniihed with certainleading maxims and rules, of prudence on-| the head of conversation In \ our choiceboth of companions and affociates next tomoral charatttr, which ought unqueltion-.lably to be the firft object pay attention to^intclleCtual accompl i Ihmepts A'hen youago into company, carry with you, as your20conftant attendints, diene(ly and CivuHy ;MoneA-y to 'prderve you from offering an/violence to your own principles and C.vilifyto preferve you from unnecefftriiy offendingothers In ail copfpames) ref ect yourfdf lofar asto preferve conliilenvy of Character j f lityour converf*tion and adurefs to the differentcircumftances and characters of the perfonsyou doihverfewith.'.QUfaiwars with theitrkteltadherarxe to what i,S fit ana becoming in your<elf. Regard iu the firff place, truth and tin-cerity i in the next propriety and feaionabie-liefs : endeavour to keep tte cue mediumbetween opemuf; and rtlerve that you mayneitnci on the one hand, lay an unpteahuitand difgm ing reffraint upon the freedom ofconvt riation, nor on the other, unnecefl’ariljrexpoie youi l'elf to ctnfure and ohloauy. tieever ready to make candid allowances forthe errors or p;ejuuiccs of others remem¬bering that you too have errors and pre¬judices which will call f.r candour rn re¬turn. Beware ot defpiuug thole who maybe inferior to you in lo ne accomplishments;they may perhaps be much your fuperiorsin other rei’pccts ■, if not, they may havemany juit claim.- to efteenv or at lead areentitled to the common exprefilons oi civi¬lity. Lallty, mite conveviafioft, as rahe ras poffible a Ichool for improvement fatcepains to gather up and carry away fromevery company fome ufeful iaformatrou, oriome good ientimeat: or t* tnis ta inut al-■R Avs be done, let every company, however,afford ibme exercife to your goof aff-cHons,and furriifh you with Ibme manner of ufelulr;fi*ftion. The induftrious bee gathershoney from every opening fToV/er ” .In the advice whi^h I have hitherto givenvou, I have chiefly corifi'~red you my fdn,in your individual capacity and fuggeflredmaxims and rules refpetting your perfonalimprovement and h'ppin^f? It remamsthat I ad t *. few h nt.' refpefting the variousimportant relations in waicn you hand atprefcht, or may expeit hereafter to beplacedIt is an eftabli/hed law of nature, thatmen fliould depend upon ea^h other forluofiflence and happinefs a. human beingin a hate perfedtiy folitary and infulated,wculc De deftitme forlorn, and wretched.N t only will you be neceflaniy dependantup'in others for the accomodations of life,and therefore bound in equity to contributei" your turn to their comfortaole exiftence ;but one very eflentiaf part of your perfonalenjoyment muft ante from the exercife ofthe locial aff-ftions Ihe heart which h^sro object on which to exercife it* benevolent feeungs; no one whom it love*, andby whom ii is bdoved is oeftitute of o- eot the firft coiiifons oflife, and mult hav a•wretched ccnfcioufhefs of vafcufty Fromthe united fenfe ot obl.gation and of inter :ft#learn to look beyond yourfdf, aud to taxean aflVctionate concern in the rrt'fare cfethers -Through the wife order of nature, Ithis leffbu has already been taught you, in Iyour domeAic relations Love to your pa- |ren •. to your brothers and fiAers and to ‘jlother near kindreds, are afitcHons which jlhave already taken deep root in ycur heart* ]janu which have been gathering t’rength |ithrough every’ aevaming year of infancy, jchildhood, ard vouth, ftill clv;rilh thefetenci'r and generous feeling* : they will bethe '‘iburle of the pureft phafures in theimmediate exercife; and they will becomea ftcck, upon which may be grafted everynoble and difinterefted fentiment cf friend-fbip. yatrotifm. and philanthropyThe youtnfut heart is commonly cprn tothe impr.-ffions of fritndihip. and rcadv toattach iifeif with ardour to feme kindredfoul, wnh wdrich it may participate all the flfatisfadlions of mutual confidence In for¬ming fuch attachments, you fiiould, how¬ever, be careful, that the peifon whom youmake choice of as your fiiend, be pofiefiedcf that Acrling merit which will h jar t’.-eAricfelt fecurity; endued with difcrerion,tofccure you from hazard in the free co,n-xnurication cf your thoughts ; adorned withgcou temper, and amiable manners to rer-dvr tie connecfion pleafant: and blefiedwith fenlibili y and genercllty to rejay theifildtion you befiowou naturaily look fet ward to the timeJ • t ■1 trhcn you will form new connexions, both,(in domd'tic and civil life !t is recefiaryat prefent to enter upon the detail of theI new i'eries of duties, which will of courfei arife as your fphere of aftion fhall be enlar-! p;c-d - Only’in general, th .t you may be pde-i pared for the ul'ein offices of aclve l'fe? let,me advife you to fchenih, in the mean time,the ffntimerits of behevoJence, and to tm-• brace every oppertunffy of exprefilog kindi and generous afle&ions Avoid all inchconnections and indulgences, a. would im-iitpair the delicacies of your feelings, and in-ildifpoff you for tx rciting the •* dear char-jities'* of the domeftic relations idabituite; yourfrlf to look beyond your own gmtiff-i cation and your own convenience, to thofe1 of others If you with to be aclmi ted as a^companion, or loved as a friend ir youWould attach thoie yith wliom you are con¬nected to your inte:'eff; if you are '-rmbi-!ous to be rtfpeCt* V iri your neighbourh'. odn cirility, gencroffty, spid public fp:“lt;' you afpire after fhe exalted merit of beingfriend to mankind early cccuttou. your-;!f in the daily intercourfes of life to bend: your own inclinations and humour to ihofeof o hers interelt yourfelf m every feene of"orrew, or misfcrtune;. which offers i ielfto your notice . be attentive to every occur¬rence in which the public profp.uity. ori;he c rule of virtue and religion i concern¬ed. In one word, never forget that you arehorn not for ^ curfelf aloae, but for yourfgmilv. for nt'ighbourhoo'i yrur country,and tbe vorld ; and on rvery r ccanon whichi alls for the txcrcile of humane and gener-ou« fec’jrgs fay- '* am a man and i;otliingInterefting to human nature is mdiffertni tome.:* _ 'Another article of advice ftili remains t(?"ibe added, w-hich. though the laid, is by nomeans the lealt important It is this Raifetheeoifee of your virtue and ha; pinef« uponthe fure foundation cf religion FI ink it not ifufficient that, in confequence of ea.iy edu¬cation am fubfequent enquiry; you admit Ithe doftrines cf the exiftence, providence,arc! moral gcvtrnmem of \le ighty Ged^ asarticles cf belief; but by frequently recol-k&ir.g them as truths in which every ration¬al being is deeply interdied. deduce fromthem practical principles, to guide you inthe condu£t of life. C^nfider every rule offobriety and feif-government which pru-;dt r.ee preferibes. and every aft pf juUice ofjcharity which btnevolence diftates as cn-ljoined by the authoring of the great Being,ijwho has chr jlifhed that cenftition of na¬ture, in which virtue and happineis arc m-(Teparably united, and who has eng raw ci ti.P1law cf virtue on every human heart.F I X I S.