I!WANTONTOM:OR, THEMerry HistoryOFromStitcliThe Tailor*| eck%d iuith such pleasing pastimes of Delight,- hat *9mould invite a Lady, Lord or Knight«j reae:—it is a Gem, a Mint of Treatnrc,i 'is Sport and Mirth beyond all vxeature.»©©l<S&)©e>©e<STIRLING :PRiNXEO BY M. RANDALL,THEMERRY HISTORYOFTOM STITCH THE TAILOR.CH,?. I.Gf Tom Stitch’s Birth and Parentage!IN Thread-needle-ftreet, at the upper |eno ot Tiaimble Alley, lived one WiliiasStitch, by profef*:on a taylor, who watijmarried to Nan Needle :Whom many men did often thread IWhen they could gain her to their bed.She keeping company with many men,|to gain cultom. at length (he gained tbiFrench difeiit; which increasing, the bher husband’s thread, i his being knoamong their cullomers. they uled to je«her and fay, She was a hot Needle indeedto burn her husoand’s thread. \nd w hetjher hu.baxul asked them for work, theyfwered No no ; Do you think we will le:you be our tailor who fews with a hojneedle and burning thread iIn a liiort time after the? were married!there arole a great contention between ninand his wife concerning their names t fbiis%PI*«MwlJbld not have her’* buried inforgetfulnel*and fuch a one as his flouriih. Her hus¬band. to f*ve contention yielding to let hername be joined to hi$>and fo called StitchIj NeedleSoon after thit (he lived a more chaftelife than heretofore fo that (he p. ovedwith child; but her hulband in naif a•j : year after died. He being dead, and dievery poor could not tell where to go for•i' i relief, having fcarcely any friend living that' would regard her.The time roon flipped away, and the dayi of her delivery drew nigh , but hse not• - thinking it h> near as it was* neglected the!i‘ getting fuch neeefsaries as one in her con-||dition required ■, fo one day unexpectedly,t file fell into travail, no body being w- thWisher but only a maid, who firft ran to cadiiifJ'ithe neighbours and then the midwire *, but• sbeing delivered before (he ca«;e, a poort1* :: neighbour had dreised the babe, which was»H a boy. rhcn a mi aider was fent for tobaptize him, who having orders namedI him Thomas Stitch; and. a while after, theit^l woman asked the mother what (he had gotnil * I to give the child. She anfwered with aih sigh, that (he had nothing m the h mie huti#*! a porringer of butter’d cabbage whic h Ihe■> I had cat part of that day for her cmaer.The child crying very much, the womantook :hf cabbage and warmed, and thenfed the babe with, who ever since hathloved cabbage beyond meafure.CHAP. II.Shewing in what mar ner Tom was broughtup Of his bcin/> bound an apprenticeHow, by a mad prank, he lay with hismiftrefs ; How his matter catched him inbed with her ■, Like wile how he had himbefore the chamberlain for it, and howby a jeft he was freed.iIN a few years Tom’s mother marriedtgain and lived very happy, put himto fchool. and there maintained him untilhe was big enough to be an apprentice;then his mother uade him make choice ofwhat ha- dicraft he would; Tom thoughta better opportunity cf choosing a trade, inwhich he could getp'en yofhis favourhediih of cabbage, never offered he thereforemade choice of a tailor- His mother foongot him a matter, whofe name was Mr De¬ceitful, who had a levere wife to lervants,and Tom being more addicted to waggerythan ordinary, fhe was the more fevere onhim ; tor every morning, if he lay in bedrafter five o’clock fne would go up, with acuugel in her hand, and pull om out ofbed, and beat him like a ftock-fifh. Shetst.:wkm(tu.!»%1.MR5using him fo cnce^or twice a week," madehim ftudy bow to prevent it: So or e morn¬ing {he coming up to hi* bed s'de in a greatrage, fell upon h‘m; but he leaped aut ofbed, crying, infomuch that the tear* randown his cheeks Then fhe returning ve¬ry eagerly to ftrik* him again he took upthe forelappet of his fhirt, and wiped hiseyes, which when fhe beheld, {he foreboreto {trike him, turning her back upon h:mand fo departed out of th* room blufhmg ;and never after that would (he call Tom upBut he, not being contented with whathe had already done, foon contrived a wayto be revenged on her; for he imaginedfhe kept company with young gallants, un¬known to her hufband, and therefore re-folved to find her out, if pofsible. Tomwatching an opportunity, one day., in themiddle of the week, faw her warming aclean fmock, which was not ufual, he thanbegan to apprehend fhe was to meet a gal¬lant abroad. So after fhe bad drelsed her-fdf, and gone out, Tom following h r,till at len th fhe entered into a notedfchool of Venus, where nnne but the fonsof Venus were practitioners, who had e xha rich wrought bed for a ftudy and adaughter of Venus lor a book: which isaccording to the poet, who faith,A woman is a book, and ofte foundTo prove far better in {beets than bound;7hi* thca kind,though before cruel miftrefs,decked with all the tempting drefses artcould produce: Her face looked like ala-bafter: a tower upon her head to conquerher lovers : nay, her 1'miles feemed as ifthey would have overcome her greateft e-memies.In this drefs Ihe beholding his beautifullooks, which were fcarcely to be equalledby any, thought him to be fome hign-bornperlon and herfelf very happy, though on¬ly to admire him. At length Ihe brokesilence and gave him this courteous faluta-fcion : Much honoured sir. your looks doprefage you are of fome noble extraction :your majeftic prefence forceth my tongueto cxprefs what my heart thinks : Yet Ihope, noble sir, 1 (hall not prefumc in lohigh a na ure, but that you fhall forgive.I (hall think myfslf happy to be recordedantong the number of your fervants.He hearing her falute him at his en¬trance with fuch nvning exprefsions, ima¬gine d what fhe wou'd be at ; fo takingher by thefband desired her to be his pilotint fome hav n of felicity. She readilyyielded to his rcqur'l awd conducted hmUp ftsirs into a chamber, he complimoused6t No wonder’than why men fake fuch delights’ o Above all things to ftudy in the night.Tom feeing where fhe went in, returtiedd Hack to a broker's /hop, and hired a veryi »£ rich fait, coat, fword and a peruke : In*; his attire he walked much like a gentle-£ nan to that door where his miftrds went: n> and enquired, whether that was not aUfchool of Venus where a gentlema** i btviiiave entertainment ? To whom the ft -pvant replied, he might. To hearing ibu,- entered in $ and the fir ft he met with was8fcer in this fort j bright madam; yourmatchlefs beauty hath captivated myfenfes ; if you will vouchfafe to honor mewith thy tweet and delightful company,I thall think niyfelf more happy than Pariswho enjoyed the Grecian queen- Towhich, (he replied, Dear sir, commandme ?.s your own, while you remain here }i|]nay. your fweet looks have fo charmed me,,that I could die in your ^rms. She yield¬ing her fell fo wholly to him. he enter-t dned her with all the choice daioties thehouir could afford. Cur as he was taking;,his repoie w ith her, ht flipped a pair oilf eifsars out of his pocket and cut off apiece of her befi petticoat ; and atrer heenjoyed her he made what hafte he could,a’ <’ paid the reckoning and departedjAt his departure, fhe hoped to have hitcompany th re again futh a day of thefol’i wing week , to which heconfented,promicing not to fill.Tom made hafte and fhifted his clothes,ane went home lam hing. to think how hewould have htr at his beck.Tom’s uuftrefs, after fhe had mifsed th«piece of her petticoat, thought he hacbeen fomegentleman her husband had fen(fearing he had heard where fhe was) oipurpofe to betray her, never thinking it]fa\'SfrKft"LiL„,|r*'1jtJf •■j.1h'i vth.'|f.9m was her man Tom. She was greatly vex-led for * long time, and could not tell whatt :fhe had beft do lonaetimsi thinking one(thing and fomeirnes another, In thisi iperpV X’ty, at laft fee pinned up her petti-t i:coat and ref jived to venture home, let thettevent be what would. So home fee went,and found her husband sitting by the firet (poor cuokold Wirminghimlelf,not>hink-ing where his wife had beea, nor at wholeit fire fee had been warmed.Wh»n fee perceived he was ignorantwhere fee ad been fee thought he hadaiii made himfeif fo, on purpof1 : hear wbat“ :ie would fry, 3he sitthtg :jy th; fire vc-i 7 melanehol?, at leng-h her husband/ hiked her wh«t ma te her lo difconfolate fJl^hc anfwered fee was no: very well, Theituckold, being very kind, as meft arc,/.tiiipufed a cordial to be prepared for her ;ret fee could not be well for three or fourlays.:;l!> i' Tom took no n otice of her for that time;but feme Ihort fpace thereafter, he Ipokeo her in this manner : Goo . mvftreis, I.t ilfee'you have been very melancholy thefe; iHiree or four days, if you ar any wayslifeomented, i will venture my life (to pur-,4 feafe your content, or if any one hath done. I ■ ■’ iIfyou h jury, I'll fpeno every drop of bloodin my bocy to right you, if you will butTet me know the caole of your being thusfad and ion owful She hearing him fpeakthus unto her which he never did before#checked him for hi8 faucinefs, by biddinghim be gone, which he inftantly did; butfaid, as he was goingoffended you now, fo:you before night, thaappointed to meet her.Siie hearing him fay fo, miftrufted heknew, and having a guilty cocfcience*asked what it was ne faid ! Tom repliedfuddenly to her again, I hope you’ll bepleafed before night ; yet though yonthink I know nothing, you would be gladif f did not know what I do.out. Though I havemebody will pleafeit being the day he!HikfontuSbe being touch’d to the quick gaveSi! him half a crown to tell her what he me at:1 This is the thing that i mean, faid he,»£ I and palled the piece of her petthbat out of• dj his pocket: She blufli»ng gave him a pieceit of gold begging of him not to tell her buf-: i; band, hoping he Hid go? knaw ahead \ Noi,': faid Tom. he does n^t know, opr «;Uf I e-a ver let him know W < n he had p; omi&i ed to her not to tell, ftie aske./. him now hebi came by it? He anfw-*rc i, f am he that cut> it i fF rheu fhe biuihiog mere and more,: fain,Dear Tom, if thou this iecret will notimpart,A purlc of gold Tl give thee with allmy heart;Nay I’ll kils and love thee without mea*fure.And ftu iy day and night to yield theepbafure,I have no power to frown or angr be,I’ll not rcsift, go what you lift wita rae.Tom, hearing this, gave her a kifs.But firft he went to fliut and lock thedoor.Then did to her as hr -a ' done before :The fcece chang’d.-—no more in awehe'll ftandFor now the man the miftreis doth com-Ktffid.12Now Tom lived more like her hiubandthan an appr ntTe, having ftore of choicedaimits given him daily to to eat. moneyenough, fine clothes, his bed warmedevery ni, ht in the winter time, and whenhis miftrefs, hut unknowen to the maid, orhi* fellow-premi'.e.Tom’s miftrels proving fo kin;1, atlength his nufter took notice of it, <?ndgrew jealous j jet he thougtt it was onlya fancy of his. till at length it became foplain, that he could not but take notice ofit and therefore rofolved, if possible, tofind them out. So one day he feignedthat a lord, who lived in the country,had fent for him to tike meafure for afuir of cloches and that he was to lie thereail night, but before he let cut on his pre¬tended journey, he acqua nted the maidwith his design, giving her a piece of gold,ane chargingjher at twelve o'cloi k at n;ghtto open the do^r when he gave one knock.He hired a horle, and had brought tothe door1 the better to blind his wife, thenmounted and road away.Tom and bis miftrefs bring glad of theopportunity, and thinking themfelves fafe,at night Ihe went to bed, and hi. to heras foon fs h s fcllow-prentice wr.s afleep,and thetetheyenjoyedtheir wilheddesir.s.■~b&t'13But what fliould prove their mifliap I attwelve o’clock her husband knocked atthe door, and he being let in by the maidwent directly up (lairs to their bed-side,drew the curtain—and there beheld hiswife and his iran to at eucirled in one an¬other’s arm», both being faft afleep.When he beheld them lying fo lovingly,he was (carce able to contain hiinfelf with¬in the bounds of reafon, but was ready topull them out of bed, yet pausing a whileupon it, rdolved to make an example ofthem both and firft of Tom.When he had called the maid up to feeand bear witnefs of it, he left the room,and them alleep, and between two andthree o’clock in the afternoon, the nextday, in order to Tom's punifhment he hadhim warned before thechimberlain, whichllartled him and his miftrefs when theyheard it ; fhe wondered that (he did notknow it *, neither of them miftrufting thatit was for that, But ihe that morninghe was to appear before the chamberhine,ask her husband whit Tom had donethat he (hould be brought before thechasnberlaine ? I’o whUh her^p’ied, You(hall know before night.A ■-14When tbe time came that Tom appear¬ed before the chamberlain, his maft -.r madeth'S complaint of h>tn :—Wi rfhipful fir,1 have brought n-y r,;an before vou io havehim feverely punjfhe for being lo ii..pu-dent and faucy as to lie with ' w-fe andto prove the truth of it *! ha’C broughtmy maid to witnefs it; he etore I ir^reatyour worfbip to punifh him with all theleverit) the la«v can inflict.The cbambcriain heari' g wh>t a fool hewas to proclaim hinifelr a cucklotd, fmil“din conceit ; fheo called Tom, and ssk< dhim, Whether that w,s true which hitmafler faid againft him ? To which heaniwered if >t ph afc ycur worlhip I can¬not ^eny it, you re an impudent rogue*fai the chamberla'n. Not, laid Tom,fiich mpudetu rcgue zs your worlhip=—— akes me to be r'ome, sirrzh, faidthe chaniberlaio I’ll teach you to let yourwords t loler together. He obferving Tomto he ■ e v arch, reproved him. by tellinghnr fly from the embraces of his miftrds,at J leph did. May it pleafe you: w r-fhip, aid om, ifhis miftrefs had been lbfair as mine, he would not have forlakenher. the chamberlain hearing this jell,fell mto a great laughter, as. likewife didall tkofe that were then prefetr and im¬mediately difinifsedhun* without any pun-iflynent./15His mafter (eeing him dHchargedand himfclf made theobjett of ill hi*neigh¬bours fpcrt and laughter made what haftehe could home and told hii wife in a greatrage, That, if ever flic let Tom lie withher again, he would turn them both outof doors, and put them to leek for frefhquarters; but if ihe would promile neverto lie with him again all ihould be well,and he would forgive all whatever waspaft. She made a thoaland proteftationsto obey his commands and never more tooffend in the like manner: yet. notwith-ffanding all her promifes, fhe made ufe ofall opportunities to fteal into the fweet em¬braces of her pretty Tom.CHAP. HI.Shewing how Tom was r venged on themaid fornotteiling him hisMafter's Designin taking him and his Milhreis in Bed to¬gether Of hi< MiltreP* Death ; and of hisbeing turned cut of doors.,€TTHEN this quarrel was over and aU^» things quiet, Tom ftudied how tobe revenged on the maid for not acquaint¬ing him and his miltrds of his mailer'splot, in catching him with his mi ft refs vTom at length imagined fits and his fellow16prentice were married , fometimes mifsinghim in the night, yet never iulpeeted anything, but only that he role out of hisbed ; fo now he relolved to watch him,and afterwards fleeepasdogsfl p for threeor four nights tog-1her, and obierved himconftantly to go to her ; But one nightwhen they vme at fupper, T?m putfUep-ing powder into his fellow 'prentice’sdrmk, to make him fle jp found and a-bout one o'cLck the fame h^ur he uied torife he jogged him, that he mi jht knowif he was afletp. Tom, perteiving he wasasleep, aroie, ard went to his fellow ’pren¬tice’s wife out refolved, if (he fpoke, onlyto whitper, fhe lying awake ready to re¬ceive him When fire heard httn fhedt8:r d him to drink that pint of lack,thinking lorn to be her husband: fo w enhe had cirark it, ihe received him .r to herai ms, emb; acieg him very lov n?ly. thereremaining two hours, enjoying uis near.’sdelight, then, w.th a parting kifs, he baucher adieu.Tom coming to his own bed, he foundhis fellow 'prentice fall asleep as he lefthim. In the morning about six o'clock,Tom aroie, leaving him asleep, and wentdown, the fuppoled mam being up, tothank her for me lack he crunk, and the5£^ 'ITkind entertainment The gave him in herbed- 0 heavens, faid flae, wa» it you !I beg you on my knees never to reveal it;for if you do, l am undone ; for I thoughtyou to be your feliow-prentice, to whomI am married. No, faid he, I’ll be evenwith you now.The more he threatened to tell, themore {he pcrfuaded him to keep it {ecret.offering him any thing he would desire.Since you are lo willing to have it conceal¬ed. laid, he, I will take I'ome pity on you,though you would not for me ; Bring medown half-a-year's wages. She yielding togive him the money, but not to lie withhim, as he had further requefted to her.When {he found {he could not prevail, {heyielded to lie with him ; but {hortlyafter fhe proved with child, and left herlervice, desiring h’m never to reveal it,which he promifed never to do.In a month after (he was gone, his mif-trefs fell sick and died, and he out of histime within a fortnight thereafter. Hismafter being ftill incensed against him,turned him ou of doars that very day Listime expired ; fo that I’om could not tellwhether to go, nor what to do. Now nisbelt friend, and loving miftrefs was deadbeing afhamed to go near any cf his rela-19Let me no mote upon the rock of fate betofs'd.Nor think of her whom I have lately loft.My loving miftref*r whom I made a flave,Ij fled from me, for to embrace the grave.Triumphing grief I I fear my heart willbreak ;My tears gufli forth, my tongue can fcarce-ly fpeak.None ever yet did mourn and weep like me.Nor none lure that had the like deftiny.But hold : in vain I grieve for her that’sgone,I’ll no more to the regardlefs air make moan;jf Fortune will but fmile on me once again,I'll quit myfelf from all this grief fc pain.Farewel rich London, and my mother too,For unto both I now muft bid adien.Tom hiving eafed his mind, role up,and went on till he came to Leeds, wherehe was entertained very kindly by a richold woman, both for bed and board ; forhe no fooaer asked her, but fhe conlented,and was very glad when he fued her foraffection, whom {he daily wifhed to enjoy,yet kept off at a feeming diftance for fometime, though not long.18tionfii he hiving proved fo very ungratefulto them in his apprenticefhip.CHAP. IVShewing how Tom forfook London ; hisLamentation ?t ' his departure ; of hisbeing entertained by an old woman, whowas very rich, in Leeds, in Yorkfliire ;Like wife how he promifed to marry herand sixteen maids in one Day, whom hegot with child, in sixteen weeks ; Laftlyhow he appointed them all to meet himat a particular place; and how he deceiv¬ed them, and left the town.OOON after Tom’s dear miftrefs wasdead being almoft in despair, he re-folved to take a ramble info the country,hoping to find fome employment there.In order to which, hej provided what ne-cefsaries he flood in need of, and then helet forward on his journey. And when hewas about a mile from London, in a plea-fant field, upon a green bank, on a brightfunfhining day, he fat down and madethis fad lamentationO Fortune frown no more as thou haft done,Botletthey joys Ihinebrightj as doth the fun,20’’’ This o’d worran doating on Lim, garshim any thing he des'red: and Tom havingher purfe as well as her perfon at com¬mand, asked her one day when he hadbeen very familiar with her, to lend him(ome money to fet up ; fhe not having thepower to deny him, let him have fome.F He being fet up,' though in her houfe,made himfelf acquainted with all the maidshe could, who thought themfelves neverfo happy as when they were in Tom’s com¬pany, and brought him all the work theypolsibly could. Tom feeing them fo lov¬ing and kind to him, tickled their fancieswith pretty love ftories ; and one abovethe reft, named pretty Betty imaginedTom loved her, never having a fweetheartbefore, therefore every day (he would car¬ry him a leg of a goofe or of a turkey, orfome other of her choice dainties. Thenfceirg how k’nd and loving fhe was, madeher think he loved her, but relolved neverto marry her.There were many other maids he pre¬tended the like kindnels for, which hiscli landlady perceiving, grew jealous ofhi pi. f:o one day, after Tom had beenkiriing one cf the maids before her, fhe21quarrelled with him threatening to turahim to the iioor, and alfo to arreft himfor what money he owed her. Tom foonquelled her paision with fotne Iweet lov¬ing words, and was received into favouragain hut reiolved never to kifs any of themaids before her face, but went home un¬to tneir houfes th:re being sixteen ot themwhom he got ail with child in sixteenweeks, and promiled to marry them all.Sometimes one would come urging himto marry, and fometimes another ; but hepretended feveral things to be in his way,fo that he could not marry yet. Howeverone day to blindfold them, he boughthimielf a gold. ring, and firfl: he told hislandlady, if (he would lend him fivepounds, he would marry her with thatring ; to which (he agreed, for then fhethought herfclf fure of him.When he had got the five pounds, heappointed her to meet him at fiich a ftyle,about half a mile from Leeds, at eighto'clock pretifely In like manner he wenton with all the sixteen maids whom he hadgot with child, (hewing them the ringthat he Ihould marry them with, whorejoiced as much to fee it as if they werealready married, and gave to each of themB2a yard ef fcarlet ribbon to wear under thechm that day. deiiring every one in panic*ular to meet him the next morning, ateight o’clock exactly, and then to go andbe married, to which they all agreed :^Butyet he requefted one thing of every one ofthem and that was, to fend him all themoney they could *, for he had, as hefeigned, laid all his money out to buya bargain of clothes with. 1 hey believedhimto one lent him five pounds, fomemore, fome lefs, according as they had;and when he had got all the money hecould he returned to bed.The next morning, rifing very early*he desired his landlady to drefs herfelf tobe married, which Ihe did, and went di¬rectly to the place appointed. After fhewas gone tom rode out of town in greathade ; but not to meet his landlady andthe red of his millrefses, as he had pro-mifed : but before he went, he wrote thefefollowing lines, and left them under hislandlady’s pillow.Tarewel, old hodefs, my fmooth flatteringtongue,Hath prov'd too old for you, tho’ I am butyoung ;You thought you had me lure, and that thisnight,23I fhould, with licence, yield you much de-light-Touthatof times claim’d doubts of memuftflay.For *’m refol'v’d myfelf to double pay.Could yi u io much a fool thine me to be.To cake one that’s fo old and cold as thee ?No the cafe is far more juft as it doth(land.For you too oft had me at your command.Before his landlady was arrived at theplace appointed there overtook her firftone fupoofed maid, with a red ribbonunder her chin then another and another,'until eleven pafaed by. The old womanfeeing lo many oafs by with ribbons undertheir chins, wondered very much’ till atlength flic tame unto the ftyle, where fhefaw all thofe that had palsed by her; andfive more, all sighing and wondering ateach other.At length they efpied a man coming to¬wards them and made what hafte theycould to meet him, 3ut when they law itwas not him, none broke silence, for fearof betraying themfelves. The man Ipeak-ing to them, laid, I have a mefsage t®deliver to you, but was charged not to de-dare^t, till I approach the ftyle. Ant24at foon as he was thuaer, they being gath¬ered round about him, he pulled the fol¬lowing lines out of his pocket, they beingfent by wanton Tom to be read to them.To you, poor lafses, I thefe lines do fend,Corfefsing each of you has been my friendSome brought me work, fome dainties forto eat,Not thinking ever I fhould prove a cheat.’Tis true your hearts and minds they noware pierc’d,But who will laugh, you’re all alike dif-trels’d,Now l your money will as freely fpend.As ye your maidenheads to me did lend.Now for your maidenheads you may com¬plain.Tour hearts and money to return again.Sigh ana lament, but ’twill be all in vain,Then fare you well, from Leeds 1 now amgone.And not contracted unto any one.