THETravels and AdventuresOFWILLIAM LITHGOW,INEUROPE,ASIA, AND AFRICA,DURING /NINETEEN YEARS.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR M'KFNZIE & HUTCHISON,Booksellers, 16, Saltmarket.THETRAVELS AND ADVENTURESHE sufferings and perigrinations of thisScotsman, who far out-walked the latefamous Coryate, “ seem,” says Mr Granger,“ to raise him almost to the rank of a mar¬tyr, and a hero.” His book being veryscarce, and little known, a short abridg¬ment may be acceptable; in which we shall,in general, omit his descriptions, and insertonly his adventures. After making twovoyages to the Orkney and Shetland islands,and walking all over Germany, Bohemia,Switzerland, and the Low Countries, ourauthor visited Paris, where he resided te*months.orWilliam Lithgow.4From thence, on March 7th, 1609, he setout on foot for Italy? and in forty days,passing through Savoy, and over the Alps,arrived at Rome. There probably being toofree and unguarded in his speech, and notobserving the advice given to Milton bySir Heniy Wotton, 1 pensieri strettit ed ilvisa sciolto-, after V stay of twenty-eightdays he could not have escaped the “blood¬sucking inquisitors,” most of whom were hisown countrymen, had it not been for the as¬sistance of Robert Meggat, a Scotsman also,then resident in Burgo di Rom*y with the oldEarl of Tyrone, who concealed him three daysat the top of his lord’s palace, and on the fourthat midnight, when all the streets and gates werewatched for him, conveyed him away, andleapt the wall with him. He then visited Na¬ples, Virgil’s tomb, fcc; Having walkedfour times from one end of Italy to the other,viz. from Vallais, the first town in Pied¬mont, to Cape Blanche in Calabria, he affirms itto be 900 Jtalian miles in length, and in breadth240, from the Adriatic coast to the Riviera ofGenoa, by the sea-side, Campagna di Roma,andthe duchy of Spoleto, he returned to Loretto.Here he met with a countryman named MrJames Arthur, whose company was most ac¬ceptable to him One day, as they wereviewing the image of the virgin, a lusty youngwotnan, busy at her beads, overpowered by thesheat of the throng, fainted away; at whichthe women near her exclaimed, that “ ourblessed lady had appeared to her.” Imme¬diately she was carried out, and laid on thesteps that lead from the chapel to the churchfloor, some hundreds more saluting her with“ Saint, saint, O ever-blessed saint!” Thi*being Friday, the woman having travelled allnight, to save the expence of fish, had pri¬vately eaten a bit of her own cold meat, anddrank half a buckale of red wine in a tavern.At last, said our author, “ Brother Arthur,I will' go and open that woman’s bosom.”He did so, and raising up her head, a flood ofvingurba, or sour win£, sprung down thealabaster stairs, mixed with, lumps of indi¬gested meat; at which the, people being amaz¬ed, from a saint they swore she was a devil,and, had not our travellers carried her inhaste from the church to a tavern, they woulddoubtless have stoned her to death. Em¬barking in a frigate at Ancona, Arthur andLithgow in three days arrived at Venice,where, as soon as they landed in St Mark’sPlace, perceiving a great crowd of people,and in the midst of them a large smoke, in¬quiring the cause, they were told, that agrey-friar of the Franciscan order was burn¬ing alive at St Mark’s Place, for debauchingfifteen noble nuns, and all within one year.Pressing forward, they came to the pillar,6just as half his body and his right arm fell intothe fire. This friar was forty-six years old,and had been confessor of that nunnery ofSancta Lucik five years. Most of these nunswere Senator’s daughters —Fifteen (all preg¬nant) were sent home rb their father’s pa¬laces: the lady prioress and the rest were ba¬nished for ever: the nunnery was razed to theground: the revenues were given to thepoor, and the church converted to an hospital.Here our travellers separated, Arthur return¬ing homeward, and Lithgow proceeding toGreece and Asia; but first visiting Padua,Verona, and Ferrara. At Padua he staidthree months, learning Italian of one of hiscountrymen, Dr John Wedderburn, an emi¬nent mathematician, who afterwards settledin Moravia. At his return to Venice, he em¬barked in a carmoesalo for Zara Nova in Dal¬matia; but meeting with a violent storm, theywere driven for shelter into the port of Pa-renzo, in Istria Thence sailing by the islesBrian!, the ruins of Pola, the isles Sangego,Osero, &c on the 8th day they arrived atZara, where our traveller got a passage intoa Greek carmoesalo for Lesina, the largestisland in the Adriatic. He afterwards sailedsuccessively to Ragusa and the island of Cor¬fu. Near the island of St Maure the vesselwas attacked by a Turkish galley of Biserta,from which, after a long and doubtful fight.rescaped by favour of a storm, and tookshelter ia Cephalonia, (formerly Ithaca,) ha¬ving seven of the crew killed, and elevenwounded; among the latter our traveller, inhis right arm Over this island he travelled,and on the second day hired a small boat tocarry him to Zant, (anciently Zacynthus),twenty-five miles distant, where a Greek sur¬geon cured his wound. He there embarkedin a frigate for Peterasso, or Patras), the ca¬pital of the Morea, where quitting the sea,he joined a caravan of Greeks bound forAthens, passing through Laconia, and thehilly and (now) barren country of Arcadia,encamping one night in the uninhabited vil¬lages of Argos and Mycenae; and finding, inshort, no remains of ancient Greece but thename. In seven days he arrived at Athens,from whence he took shipping for the isle ofSerigo, (of old Cythera) where, during hisstay at Capsalo, the captain of that fortresshaving killed a priest, whom he had foundone night in a brothel, the governor of theisland deposed and banished him. In thesame boat Lithgow also embarked, and sail¬ed to Candia, or Crete Through this wholeisland he travelled twice, which no travellerin Christendom had done before. On set¬ting out for Canea, being informed of thedanger of robbers, he put his money in ex¬change, and had scarce got twelve miles when8lie was beset by three Greeks and an Italian,who beat him cruelly, robbed him of all hisclothes, and stripped him naked> adding ma¬ny threats; till at length the Italian perceiv¬ing he was a stranger, and could not speakthe Cretan tongue, asked him in his ownlanguage, where was his money? He repliedhe had only eighty byzantinos, which scarceamounted to eightpence English. Not cre¬diting these wotds, the robbers searched allhis clothes and budget, but found nothingexcept his linen, and recommendatory lettersfrom several princes, particularly the Dogeof Venice, whose subjects they were. Thismoved the Italian to compassion, and he ear¬nestly intreated the others to save our travel¬ler’s life. At length, they restored to him/his pilgrim’s clothes and letters, but kept hisblue gown and byzantinos, and as a passportgave him a stamped piece of clay, to shew toany of their companions, if he met them, theband consisting cf twenty; travelling that daythirty-seven miles, he reached at night the mi¬serable village of Pickehorno, where he couldfind neither meat, drink, lodging, nor anyrefreshment. The Candiots, a barbarouspeople, thronged round him, seemed amazedat his wanting both company and their lan¬guage. A compassionate female having pri¬vately made him signs that his death was con¬certed, he stole away from them in the night,9and lay till morning in a cave by the set-side,hungry and thirsty, and his heart faintingin him.At sun-rising, he quitted his lurking place,and about noon reached Canea, the secondcity of Crete, anciently Cydon. While hewas there, six gallies arrived from Venice, inone of which was a young French gentle-manja protestant, bornin Languedoc, who hadbeen condemned by the senate to the galliesfor life, for being accessary to the death ofa young noble Venitian, in a quarrel con¬cerning a courtezan. Having leave from hiscaptain to come on shore with a keeper,wearing an iron bolt on his leg, our authorcommenced an acquaintance with him, andgreatly compassionating his misfortune, (be¬ing at Venice when the accident happened),contrived his escape at the hazard of his ownlife, by means of an old Greek woman, hislaundress, who lent him an old gown and ablack veil for a disguise. Accordingly Lith-gow invited the keeper to the tavern, where,with deep draughts of Leatic, he intoxicatedthis Argus, and left him asleep. Then dis¬burdening his friend of bis irons, he clothedhim in a female habit, and sent him out ofthe town, conducted by the Greek woman,and when past the guard and gate, our tra¬veller followed him with his clothes, and in-terehang'ing, directed him ever the moun¬tains to a Greek convent, where he might beentertained sill the Maltese gailies or men ofWar snouxu touch there, on their way to theLevant.In his way back, our author was met bytwo soldiers of his nation, Smith and Har¬grave, who were coming to inform him, thatthe officers of the gailies and several soldiers,were searching the city and the fields forhim. Advising with them how to reach theJulian monastery, St Salvador, where helodged, they conducted him in at the eastern(the least frequented) gate of the city, wherethree other Englishmen (of the garrison)wei-e that day on guard, aad with them hap-Jtened to be eight French soldiers, theirriends, who also agreed to escort him. Nearhis lodgings, four officers and five galley sol¬diers ran to sieze him, when the English andFrench drawing their swords, desperatelywounded two of the officers. Meantime areinforcement coming from the gallies, Smithleaving the rest engaged, ran with Lithgowto the monastery. At length, the officers ofthe garrison relieved their own soldiers, anddrove back the others to the gailies. Soonafter, the general of the gailies came to* themonastery, and examining our traveller con¬cerning the fugitive, he made such a defencenthat nothing could be proved against hint.Nevertheless, he chose to remain in safeguardin the cloister till the gallies were gone Be¬ing disappointed of a passage to the Archi¬pelago, Lithgow resolved to visit the cityof Candia; and in his way passed by the fa¬mous haven, and through the pleasant valleyof Suda, by the city of Rethtmos, the laby¬rinth of Daedalus, and mount Ida; near whichhe disproved the assertion of there being novenomous creature in Crete, by killing twoserpents and a viper. Being disappointed atCandia, he was forced to return to Canea thesame way he went, where, soon after an Eng-iish renegade, named W:!son} arrived fromTunis, in his way to Rhodes; and after someconversation with* his countrymen,^ (the En¬glish soldiers), hearing that Lithgow was aScotsman, he spoke as follows: “ My elderbrother, the master of a ship was killed atBurntisland in Scotland, by one Keere; andthough he was beheaded, I have long sincesworn to be revenged on the first ScotsmanI should see or meet, and therefore I am de¬termined to stab this man to night as he goeshome to his lodging;” desiring their assist¬ance, which two of them promised, but theother three refused. Meantime, Smith foundhim at supper in a sutler’s house, where, ac¬quainting him with the conspiracy, he wasescorted to his lodging by Smith and three12Italian soldiers, passing by the. ruffian andhis confederates, who, seeing his treacherydiscovered, made his escape.Smith having thus most eminently servedhim twice, first in freeing him from the dan¬ger of galley-slavery, and now in saving hislife, Lithgow resolved to return the obliga-irion, by discharging his debt to the captain,which was only forty-eight shillings sterling,and thereby procuring him his liberty, afterhaving served three captains fifteen years.This our traveller happily accomplished, and•mbarked him for Venice. Lithgow staid inCanea »ear a month, before he could procureS passage for the Archipelago, and-at last leftthe monastery (he says) «with regret, as thefour friar* hi* hosts, gave him frequent andlarge draughts of malmsey, though often a-gainst his will. Every night too, they forcedhim to dance with them} but their music wasdrunkenness, and these beastly swirie wereevery night so drunken, that they had notpower to go to their beds, but where theyfell, they-lay till next morning. In short,during the twenty days of his being there,ke never saw any one of them truly sober.In this island, he travelled on foot about400 miles, and after a stay of fifty-eight daysV.. i*y*IShe embarked in & fishing-boat for Milo, oneof the Cyclades, distant 100 miles.From Milo our traveller proceeded to Ze-phano, another small island, from whenceLucullus first transported marble to Rome;and to Angus'a, where he was wind-boundsixteen days, and all that time was never inbed; but lodged on the stones in a little cha¬pel, the Greeks entreating him not to entertheir sanctuary, because he was not of theirreligion; however, as the nights were longand cold, he was forced every night tocreep into the midst of it to keep himselfwarm. From thence he went to Mecano,anciently Delos, the chief of the fifty-fourCyclades, where the custom still continues ofnever suffering men to die, or children to beborn in it; but when the men are sick, andthe women big bellied, they are sent to Rhe-na, two miles distant. Zeo, Tino, and Pal-mosa, once Patinos, where St John wrotehis Revelation, were the next islands whichhe visited; and thence sailing to Nicaria, hisvessel in sight of it was chased by two Turk¬ish galliots into a bay, where leaving theloaded boat, he and eight more fled to therocks, from whence they annoyed the Turkswith huge stones. The- master and two o-ther old men were taken and made s ves, #and tfce boat and* goods siezed. In his way•<*14from Nicaria to Sio, they were driven by astorm into a creek, between two rocks, wherethe shore being shelvy, and both the anchorscoming home, a great leak was made, andseven of the crew drowned. The other ele¬ven, just before the boat sunk, by hasty row¬ing reached a cave within the mountain.Lithgow disembarked last, as the rest hadsfrorn, if he pressed to escape before theywere all in safety, they Would throw him intothe sea. Nothing was saved but his coffermade of reeds, in which he carried his papersand linen, and held it always in his arms.In this cave, which was thirty paces long,they abode three days without meat ansidrink, till, on the fourth, the tempest teas-v ing, some fishipg boats relieved them. Se¬venteen other boats were casf away on thiscoast, and not a man saved. Through thisisland Lithgow travelled with a thankfulheart to Sio, the capital, where, passing byan old castle, he was told that Homer’s se¬pulchre was still extant there; and being de¬sirous to see it, he descended by sixteensteps into a dark cell, and through that toanother square room, where he saw an an¬cient tomb, on which were engraven someancient Greek letters, which he could not un¬derstand. By Mitylene or Lesbos, he nextsailed in a carmoesalo to Negropoint (of oldEuboc) and in their way they were chased bypk ~ " ' - ’ -2' - 1 . , • • - . _15two Turkish galliots into a long creek, wherethe Turks were deterred from attacking.them, by bonefires made by the Greeks forsix succeeding nights; our traveller, as aStranger, being exposed every night to standsentinel, in the midst of frost and snow, onthe top of a high promontory, which, howe¬ver, invited his muse to bewail his toilsomelife, his solitary wandering, and his long dis¬tance from his native country.On the 7th day, two Venetian gentlemen,who had been ten years banished for mnrder,came down to see them with two servant*,all well armed; and hearing our traveller’*complaints against the Greeks for detaininghis budget, and forcing him to endanger hislife for their good, they soundly drubbed themaster, and forced him to restore Lithgow’sthings: carrying him within five mnes of thetown where they then resided, kindly enter¬taining him ten days, and at his departuremade him a present of forty gold sequins:the first gift he ever received in all his tra¬vels.From thence be proceeded to Salonicain Macedonia, and then sailing along theThessalian shore, saw the “ iwo-toppedhill” Parnassus, and a little ruinous villageand castle, once the city of Thebe*. In three/16days, from Ralonica he arrived at Tenedos,where meeting with two French merchantsof Marseilles bound to Constantinople, heand they resolving to view Troy, hired ajanizary for their conductor and guard, anda Greek for their interpreter. Landingthere, they saw many relics of old walls, andmany ruined tombs, some of which werepointed out to them as the tombs of Hector,Ajax, Achilles, Troilus, &c. and also thoseof Hecuba, Cressida, and other Trojan dames.Credat Judxus! They were shown also theruins of King Priam’s palace, and where oldAchilles dwelt. On a piece of a high wallat the N E. corner of Troy, our author foundthree pieces of rusted money* two of whichhe afterwards gave to the younger brothers ofthe duke of Florence, then studying at Prato-lina; the third and fairest, with a large pic¬ture on one side, he bestowed, at Aix, in Pro¬vence, on his countryman Mr Strachan, thenmathematician to the Duke of Guise, whohad presented it to his Lord.“ Where the pride of Phrygia stood (saysour author), it is a most delectable plain, a-bounding now in corns, fruits, and delicatewines, and may be called the garden of Na-tolia, yet not populous, for there are but on¬ly five scattered villages in all the bounds.The length of Troy hath been, as may be17discerned by the fundamental walls yet ex¬tant, about twenty Italian miles, lying alongthe sea-side, between the three papers of Idaand the furthest end eastward of the riverSimois, whose breadth all the way hath notout-stripped the fields above two miles.” Thiswe give as a specimen of his style.On discharging their covenant with thejanizary, who was not contented with theformer condition, the Frenchman objectingto pay the same that Lithgow did, the Turkbelaboured them both with a cudgel till theblood sprang from their heads, and compell¬ed them to double his wages. Such is theextortion of those rascals, who regard Chris¬tians no more than dogs; and it is always bestfor a traveller to content them at first, or hewill be forced with blows to pay twice asmuch. At Sestos and Abydos, so famed forthe loves of Hero and Leander, but now call¬ed the castles of Gallipoli (at present theDardanelles,) they arrived in a small frigate,where, two days after, eighty Christian slaveshaving murdered their captain, and the o-ther Turks, and ran away with the galley,passed the straits at midnight, with littlehurt, though the cannon thundered inces¬santly for two hours; and at last arrived inthe road of Zante. Another galley attempt¬ing the same the year following, the poorISslaves, in passing, were so wounded and gall¬ed with the great shot, and the galley readyto sink, that they were forced to run onshore, where, being apprehended, they weremiserably put to death.Leaving the Frenchman with a Greek bar¬ber, Lithgow embarked in a Turkish frigatefor Constantinople, “ a little world, whichhe describes as yielding, at a distance, suchan outward splendour to the amazed beholderof goodly churches, stately towers, gallantSteeples, &c that the world cannot equal it.*At his landing, however, he “ had a hardwelcome;’’ for on jeaving the boat, the mas¬ter saying Adio Christiano, four French re-negadoes standing on the quay, and hearingthese words, fell desparatelj upon him, blas¬pheming the name of Jesus, and throwinghim down, beat him cruelly, so that had nothis friendly Turks leaped out of their boat andrelieved him, they would doubtless have mur¬dered him, the other infidels standing by, saidto him, “ Behold -what a Saviour thou hast,when those that were Christians, now turnedMahometans, cannot abide nor regard thename of thy God!’ Entering into a Greeklodging, he'was much eased of his blows bytheir anointing him with divers oils, and kind¬ly received and refreshed gratis, because hehad suffered so much for Christ’s sake. Next19day he went to pay his duty to Sir ThomasGlover, the English ambassador, who cour¬teously entertained him three months in hishouse.“ A more complete gentleman (he says),he never met with, nor one in whom trueworth did more illustrate virtue ” His mo¬ther was a Polish lady, who coming fromDantzick to London, was delivered of himat sea. Afterwards he was brought up atConstantinople, and spoke and wrote theSclavonian tongue perfectly; and thence re¬turning to London, he was the first ambassa¬dor sent there by king James I. after hiscoming to the crown of England. The dukeof Moldavia being deprived of his principal¬ities by \chmet, was received and chirgea-bly maintained by Sir Thomas in his house,for two years, but his embassy being expired,and Sir Paul Pindar being expected in hisplace, this prince stole away from him, turn¬ed Turk, and was circumcised, receiving on¬ly, for his dukedom, a palace, and a yearlypension of 12,000 gold sequins for life. Heowed the ambassador abour 15,000, half ofwhich, in half a year, be recovered, the otherhalf he was forced to forego.The winter beiog expired, Lithgow sailedin an English ship to Smyrna, and thence to90Rhodes, where he saw the remains of theColossus, and to Lemisso in Cyprus, fromwhence he went with an interpreter to visitNicosia, the capital; and, on his return, meet¬ing four Turks, they would have his mule toride upon, which his interpreter refusing, theypulled him off its back, beat him pityfully,and left him almost dead. His companionfled and escaped, and had not some Greeksaccidentally come by and relieved him, hemust have perished. He sailed from thenceto Tripoli, in Syria, and while he waitedthere for a caravan to Aleppo, being mindfulto visit Babylon, he agreed with three ,Veni-tian merchants to go a day’s journey to seethe cedars of Libanus. Ascending the moun¬tain, their guide mistaking their way amidstthe intricate path of the rocks, two of theirasses fell over a bank, and broke their necks;and had they not met by chance with aChristian Armaronite, they must have beenlost among the. rocks, heaps of snow, andviolent torrents. At the place where thecedars grow they saw but twenty-four in all;and nine miles westward, there are seventeenmore. He was there shewn the tomb of Jo¬shua, all of one stone, seventeen feet long,and was kindly entertained by the Bishop,or Patriarch, at Eden, and the Armoranites,or Nazaritans of the other villages.i :ffReturning to Tripoli, he set out with a ca¬ravan of Turks for Aleppo, but before hisarrival there, the caravan for Babylon, to hisgreat grief, was departed. But being toldthat it staid at Beershacke on Euphrates, onaccount of some Arabs who way-laid themin the desarts, he hired a janizary and threesoldiers to overtake them. But though theyhad staid, they were gone three days beforev he got there. Beershacke is by some sup¬posed to be Padanaram. To Aleppo, there¬fore, he was forced to return. While hewas there, the Bashaw, having the year be¬fore revolted against the grand Signior, hesent him a chiaux and janizaries on an em¬bassy, preferring, that if he would acknow¬ledge his rebellion, and for that treason sendAchmet his head, his eldest son should inherithis possessions and Bashawship; otherwise theviultan would come in person, and utterly e-raze him and all his from the face of the earth.The messengers met the Bashaw on horseback,accompanied by his two sons and 600 horsemen.Hearing this, he dismounted, consulting withhis sons and friends, he and they con¬cluded that it was best-for him, being an oldman, to die to save his race from destruction,and preserve his son in his authority and in¬heritance. This done, he went to prayer;and taking leave of theui all, and sitting downon his knees, the chiaux struck off his head,*2and put it into a box to carry to Constanti¬nople. The corpse was honourably buriedat Aleppo, of which Lithgow wasan eye-wit¬ness. And immediately the chiaux, by pro¬clamation, fully invested the son in his fa¬ther’s lands, offices, 8cciBeing disappointed going with the caravanto Babylon in the autumn, as has been alrea¬dy related, our traveller returned to Aleppo,where he staid till the spring, when he join¬ed a caravan of Armenians and Turks, wellguarded, bound to Jerusalem, hiring a mulefrom a Turk to carry his victuals. Theirnumber was about 600 Armenians, Christianpilgrims, men and women, 600 Turks traffic-ing for their own business, 100 soldiers, three .chiauxes. and six janizaries. The confusionof this multitude he describes as most griev¬ous, on account of the extreme heat andscarcity of water, and narrow stony passages,in which they often fell one over another ingreat heaps, and the Christians were oftenwell beaten by the conducting Turks. Theowner of his mule was for three days veryfavourable to him, in order to have a share(he found) of his tobacco, *f which he freelygave him a pound which he always earnedwith him, to procure the good-will of theTurks- At his walking, which he often did atdismounting, to stretch his legs, that were stif-fened by a stumbling beast, they laughedand mocked him, it being th^ir custom, at a-lighting, to sit down immediately, and foldtheir feet under them. On the ninth daythey arrived at Damascus, and were lodgedthree days in a great khan, at the grand Sig-nior’s expence; a privilege allowed to all stran¬gers who come with a caravan.On Palm Sunday, in the morning, 1612,the caravan entered Jerusalem, and at thegate they were all searched for arms and am¬munition. The Armenians were obliged todeliver up their weapons, and Lithgow'sname was written in the clerk’s book, thathis tribute for the gate, and for seeing thesepulchre, might, before his departure, bepaid together. The gates were of iron out¬wardly, and above each gate was plantedbrazen cannon.Taking his leave of his companions, wholodged with their own Patriarch, our authorwas met, and received in the streets, by theguardian and twelve friars, each carrying alighted wax candle, and one for him also,and singing Te Deum all the way to theirmonastery, they greatly rejoicing that aChristian had come from such a far countryas Scotland to visit Jerusalem. But whenthey knew afterwards that he was no Popish24(Catholic, they sorely repented of their la¬bour. He found there ten Franks, just comefrom Venice, six of them Germans, and alsogood Protestants, who were wonderfullypleased to hear him flatly tell the guardian,that he was no Roman Catholic, nor everthought to be so. After staying some daysat Jerusalem, and seeing every thing worthyof his notice, he made the best of his way toJoppa, where, after seeing the remains of the'house in which Peter fel’ into a trance^ andsaw heaven opened, he embarked in a smallvessel for Alexandria. He arrived there insafety, and soon after sailed for his native\ country.FINIS.\ 'Y,