theFE and TRANSACTIONSO FJ AM E S SHARP,sfrc/, Bijhop 0f St jftidreivj: .Printed in The Year j7§8The Life of James Sarp, Arch BiOiopjof St Andrews., &c.Givin? a particular acco»nt of his betraying theCHURCH of SCOTLAND, and ether adh of.Perjury and Cruelty during his Uite:a minute Relation of his Behaviour, when hewas attacked and out to Death at Magus]Muir. In Fife.AFTER the death of Cromwell, general.;Monk having the whole c m matt dm Scot¬land : And, before he marched for Hugh •id withhis army, the Reverend Mr RobertMinuter of Edinburgh, was the F.rft that adver Jtured to propofe to him the reflora'.u;. a rCharles the ftcond: When- lie found the, ge^ftainot averfe co this propol’a!, he travelled througha good part both of Scotland and ^Inglind, tng- .aging numbers of noblemen and gentlemen in iheprojeft; and after the parliament was fettled in 'England, Me.fi’ Douglas and Dickfon min.ftcrs,wrote general Monk Jan. IO. 1660, lignifytngthere entire confidence in him, as to the affairs inScotland, and the neceffity of one from them,, tobe near his perfon to put him in mind of whatfiioufd be neccliary, and to acquaint them with thereal liatc of things from time to time. Accord¬ingly they defired his pafs for Mr James Sharp,]whom they had appointed as a fit perfon to be nearfiis perfon. The general returned an anfwer toMefT. Douglas and Dickfon, afluring them, thatthe welfare of the church /hould be a great partof his care, and that he had fent a pafs for MrSharp On receipt of which, feveral miniflers metat Edinburgh, and agreed to fend Sharp to take jcare of theaiTair* of the church of Scotland j and,gave him the following inllrudions.1. You are to ufe your utmofl endeavours,that the Kirk of Scotland, may without iuterrupt-iou or encroachmet enjoy the freedom and privile¬ges of her eftablifhcd judicatures, ratified by thelaws of the land.2. Whereas by the late toleration, which iseflablifhed, a door is opened to many grof errorsand loofe practices in this church ; you iholl there¬fore ufe all lawful and prudent means to reprefentthe iinfulnefs and ofFenfivenefs thereof, that itmay be timeoufly remedied.3. YiU are to reprefent the prejudice the church' dodv fuiFsr by the inverting of the vacant flipenda,v/hich by law whre dedicated to pieus itfes, andieriouflly endeavour, that hereafter vacant llipendsbe intromitted with by prefoyteres, and fuch as.'hall be warranted by them, and no others, to bedifpofed of and applied to pieous ufes, accordingto the XXth afl of parliament, 1644.4. You are to endeavour that miniflers,lawfully called and admitted by prefbyteries to themini fiery, many have the benific of the XXXIXthact of parlimcnr, incitled, ad anent abolifliing pat¬ronages, for obtaining fnmnnrily, upon the aft oftheir admiilioa, decreet and letters conform, andfher execurorials, to the effeil-they may get theright and pofleflion of their fhpends, and ether be¬nefits, without any other addrefs or trouble. Ifyou find that there will be any coramilfion appoint¬ee in this nation, for fettling and augmenting ofmlnifters ftipends, then you are to ufe your urmoftendeavour to have faithful men, well eff &ed tothe intcreft of Cbrid and his church employedtherein.Thefeinflruaions, directed to Mr James Sharp,where fublcnbtd by Mefl*. David D.ckfon,Robert Douglais, Jas. Wood, John Smith, GeorgeHurchifon, and Andrew Ker. On the Sharp,arrived at London, met with a kind reception, hadimmediate accefs to the general, who recommend ■ed him to Mr Anthony Cowper, and, Mr Weaver-two members of parliament.Sharp, for fame time keeped up a cfsrrefpond''ence wit.-i his confiituants, Hill profclfi ig a zealousconcern for the covenants, &c. And, thy’ Mr iDouglas and the reft, infilled that more coinmidion-ers fhonld be fent to his affiftance, yet Sharp badthe adcirefs to perfuade, that it would be to nopurpofe till the king came home; for he flock nei¬ther at folemn proteftations, both by word andletters, appealing to God for bis lincerity iu ailingfor prefbytery, and praying imprections on himfelf,if he prevaricated. 1 aus Sharp managed afiairsfoi about a year, ( being all tins time maintained !by the I refbyterians. ) But sharp toon threw offthe mafic, for when the affairs o; tiie churcli werep it in the king’s hands by aff of parliament, andwn>.n the church ofScotland cime under confidcr-ation, lord M ddlctoa the chancellor, and feverc’\ 3 /of tne commiflioners from Scotland were flrerv-oudy for biHiops; but duke Hamilton, the e^rls ofLauderdale and Crawford, &c. oppofeo^t, aiTuriugthe King, that the national prejudices againttbifliops wrere verydrong; but Sharp, on the o-ther hand, allured his majedy, that none but theProteders, of whom, he had a very bad opinon,were againrt bifliops; and that of the Rcfolution-ers their would not be found twenty that wouldoppofe it. So the King and Sarp’s party previled,and Prelacy being now to be fet up in Scotland byroyal authority, without confent of the people, itis eafy to conceive what condernation, alinoti ailranks of people in Scotland were in.The next thing to be done, was to have Bifhopsappointed, and confecrated : Sharp managed mat¬ters with fo much art and diflimulation, that hesot the archbifhoprick of St Andrews lecured tohi ml elf, and was ordered to find out proper menfor filling up the other lees.For fiive years after this, the Prelbyterians werecrueally opprefled by the Bilhops, &c. Theirliberties both religious and civil were taken away;'heir minifiers fcattered, banilhed, and imprifoned,and, the common people expofed to the mercilelsravages of the army, who fined and impnfonedat pleafure, that the poor people were all madedeluarate: and through their cafe was reprefentedto the council, and, even to the king, by dome ofthe nobility; yet, as Sharp, and the rdl of thebilhops, had all to fay in the council mnead ofaeitincr r-drefs, they were ftill oppreifed the more;which "was the occalbn of tbeir taking up arms todefend thcmfdvesVJThe firft rifing was in Galloway, the occafion was |-/-this: In the fpring 1666, Sir James Turnermarched with a baud of fuldkrs, to curb thePrdbyttrians in the weft, and laid them under themoll grievous oppreffions; any curate with twoor three of thcfe armed apoftles, fined whom theypleafed; and, made as large exaftions as they hada mind, for now the gentleman muft pay, if hislady, fervants, or tenants, did not attend the parifhchurch: the tenant muft be opprefl'ed if the land¬lord withdrew, tho’ he and his family attendedever lb dofely. The widow, the fatherlefs, the oldand infirm, was not fpared: the very poor muftbeg to pay the church’s fines. The meat muft befnatch’d from the mouths of innocent children, andthrov/n to the dogs; many boufes were quareeredupon, and, when their provilions was confumed,their furniture was either fold or burnt; lb thatmultitudes of poor families, and even gentlemenwere fcattered, and reduced to the utmoll extre¬mities. Sir James continued his terrible ravagesin the weft and fouth, till Nov hmber 23, when fourcountrymen n frefhing themfelves in Darly inGalloway, were informed, that three or four fo-Idiers bad feized a poor old man, and brought himto his own houfe, where they were going to ftriphim naked, and fet him on a red hot grid-iron, andufing ctfier unheard of cruelties.Whereupon,they immediately repaired to the houfe,! ond begged the loldiers to let the poor old mana:or.e; but they, inftcad of complaying with thishumane dtfire, attacked the countrymen,‘ who gotthe better, difarmed the foldiers, and relieved theirfellow fufferer; and, left other foldiers in the parifh,who were about twelve in number, fhould fall up-.on them, they were joined that fame night, byfeven or eight acquaintences, and next morningearly furpnfed the party of foldiers, who all laiddown their arms, except one, who was killed.As this finall book will not contain all theTranfactions. i come now to give yon a fuf &porticlar account of BJhop Sharp's death &c, &c.Daring the years 1678 & 1679, the perfecutionwas moltlfivere iu the county of Fife, (and indeedthrough almofc all thefomh and weft of Scotland.One Canniachel ShrifFdepute, ofCoupar, beingimpower’d to feck for and perfecute all noncou-formifts and intercomtnuned perfons in the fhire.Beftdes his apprehending, fining and tmpriloningmultitudes, it was his cuftom to leize ferrants,and put fiery matches between their fingers, toge¬ther with feveral other methods of torture, inorder to force them to difcover wheretheir nuftersswere, Or any thing belonging to them. He wouldlikewife beat women and children to make theminform againft their hufbands and parents; not to'mention rapes, aduhries, and inftaitces of abomi¬nable wickednefs.As the fuffering people had no legal way ofredrefs, feveral of the wanderers of this fhire,being deprived of the proce&ion of the laws oftheir country, refoiv’d to get rid of Carmichael;and for this purpofe fixed on Saturday me 3d ofMay 1679, when, as they were informed that hewas to be a hunting. Accoringly, about nine ofthefe perfons, fome of them being gentlemen ofgood families, upon the day appointed, fearchedfor him through all the countrey round Couparin Fife, but to no purpofe.While they were talking of feplirating and quitt¬ing their projeft, they were informed by a boythat the atchbilhop’s coach was at Cere?, and in alittle wouid come that way.This much furprifed them, that, when they werejuft parting & giving over their fesrch for theiervant, the malter fhould come in the way, eventheir arch enemy, and fource of all their miferies.Upon which cue of them faid, it feems, He isnow delivered into our hands, and prepoftd toembrace this opportunity for cutting him off, andand that one flitfuld have the command of the refcfor that I'tirpofe. Mr Hackftcun of llathillet be¬ing prefeut, this burden was laid on him; but heoppofed the motion, and would have no hand inwhat followed, whether becanfe it was a matteroi blood, as to which he was not dear in his ownf mind, as our author affirms, or if, others alledge,it was becaufe that he having received perfonalinjuries from the archbiflicp, it might be thoughtthat he did it in revenge, we cannot certainlyfay.By tins time, they were com: to a little villagacalled Magus, where they difeovered the biff op’scoach. One of them on a fwift horfe, rode up tofee if Sharp was in it. ^ lie biffop obferving himcried out to the coachman to drive on. Thegentlelenian hearing th;s threw off his cloke andpurfued him at full fpeed, as likewife did the reft,only Rathillat kept at a difrance, and did not at allengage in the aclion. While they were thus pur-Suing in Magus muir, Wallace, one of the bi/hop’servants, turned upon him and cock’d his piece,nit feme of them coming up foon difmounted andInarmed him: and as the coach was driving furi-ia uily away, they fired their muffets, but could notI top it, till the perfon on the fwift horfe came up‘■kt coach, crying out, Judas, be taken.( 9 )The primlte called with the greater Violence,Drive! drive! drive! but at laft, they cut thetraces of the coach and ftppt it*By this time the reft wer$ come up, and foundthe bilhop’s daughter with him m the 'coach, andtherefore the captain ordered him to come out,that no harm might come on her, whom they hadno intention to hurt This he refufed; where¬upon two of them, the reft being engaged in dd-mounting and fecuring his fervants, fired upon t icbifhop, while his daughter was fkrieking and cry-injr moft bitterly; but binding that he was nottouched, the captain commanded him to come out;and, while the bifiiop lingered, and cried for mercy;the commander replied, I take God to w.tnef*,whofe cnufe I uefire to own in adhering to theperfected gofpel, that it is not out of any hatredof your perfon, nor from any prejudice you havedone, or could have done to ms, that I intend nowto take your life, but becauie you n^ve been, andiftiH continue to be an avowed oppofer of ti egofpel and kingdom of Chrilt, and a tnurderer oi htrfaints, whofe blood you have flied like water.Another faid, Repent, Judas, and come out.The btlhop replied. Gentlemen, fave my , °jl will fave yours. The fir ft anfwered I knowis not in your power to fave us or to kdl m,sTain declare, it is not any particular feud o.quarrel I have at you, which moves me tojh.s attempt, but becaufe you are an enemy_ to Chniand his intereft, and have wrung youthe blood of his faints, not only *f<erbut feveral times fi«ce; a«d ?ameyour perjury and Ihedding the blood of Mr JameMitchcl, and having a hand m t.^e death of JLearmont, and your perfidious betraying of thechurch of Scotland. Tbefe crime:, added he, andthat blood, cry with a loud voice to heaven for, vengeance, and we are this day to execute.!.And aeain he defired him to come cut, and prep-: are for death, judgment, and eternity. The b.lhop! ftill refund, and cried for mercy, effenng him■ money, The captain faid, Thy money per.fli withthe: and told him, that he allowed him time to, pray, and commanded him agaifi to come our.The bifhop ftill refufed. One of them at adiftance cried our, Seeing there have been fo! many lives unjufily taken by him, for which thereis not the leaft fign of repentance, we w.ll not be; innocent, if any more be taken that way.Then ore of them Sired a piflol at him in thecoach, which did not touch him, and anotherv. oui:d*d bun with a fword, at which he crieuout, Fy, fy, I *m gone; but the wound was notmortal. At la«, when he found that they wouldforce him out of the coach, he thought proper to1 come out. But by no means could they per-fuade him to pray, which much impi»fed ihtm.Then they difeharged a power of fhot upon; him, which made- him fall back, fo that he layas dead.But one of them giving him a prek with hisfwerd, he railed up himfelf. 'Ihtn being appre-henfive, that fhooeng v-ooH not do, the com¬mander ordered them to draw their fwnjds, t.i-onwhich he made the moft bulccvis and ternb.-flirieks that ever were heard. At lad, the coni-mander ftruck him with a ihable on the face, andone of his chods fei! down. He tried to fpeakbat was not underttohd. They redoubled theirftrpkes, and killed hi ni outright; but they .tooknothing with tnem but arnis and papers; his fer-vants, they^ rode away in a body to a place threeor four mil’s from Magus muir, and continued tillnight, when they feparated, and fbifted for them-ielves the befl way they could.When they reflected on what they had done,they were much furprifed at their own prefervati-on, fince the whole was traufafled between twelveand one at mid-day.It like wife deferves a remark, that after themolt diligent and exa<A learch, none were everapprehended that were aflually concerned. Theywho were executed on this account, on Magus-rouir, afterwards, were no-ways accelTary. MrHackfloun of Rathillet •was indeed prefent, andafterwards taken and put to death : One AndrewGuillan was likevvife prefent, and afterwardsexecuted; but all the hand he had was, that, ’living near the place, he was taken out of hishpufe, held their horfes, and was witnefs ofwhat was done.