'    > THEiLIFE, SUFFEHINGS,ANDsumip&aaim©OFELIZABETH SMITH;Daughter of a Merchant in Grcenook.Written by Herself.<;Ziv- ■' ’>/..■4.*4>*AV->•-•/JrM‘r'J&iii -<C“'-I/•'a-> >• • . . ■■‘v '■ . ' • - X 1 ■ ■ ' ■ '•,. li : '.V (3...%\iimvjs \v vy iff." ^1..., . . • - ■’/:Y/ 0 0.". /. 0 0$*tVa\..sv*.v<£><• ;j ■T O i , " ci : / . . i.0<-81LIFE, SUFFERlrfGfe,ASURPRISING ADVENTURESOFELIZABETH SMITH.I am a native of Greenock, my parents are respect_able merchants of that town. I was born on the lstof Ociober, 1822. About 1C years ago, a young manof the name of Robert Taylor, paid his addresses tome; he was then serving his apprenticeship to a cabi¬net maker: our love was mutual, our attachment grow¬ing stronger every hour. In the beginning of 1889 heproposed to have a secret marriage, but I would notconsent withont acquainting my parents. My motherconsented, observing that she could not attempt tomarry me contrary to my inclination : but my fatherrefused me to marry a man without property. Hesaid Iwas too young to marry, and that when I grewolder he would provide a suitable match for me. Hewatched me closely, but we contrived to meet everyevening. 1 told him my father’s determination, andhe was sad—our grief was great, and we shed tears ofsorrow. At length I consented to a private marriage—parted in sadness, fearing that my father wonld pre¬vent us accomplishing our purpose, and so it proved.On the following morning he compelled me to ac-enrapan ym on. a visit to my uncle who resides in4St. Vincent Street, Glasgow. The next day he set outon his retnrn home, and left me in strict charge withmy uncle, who would not allow ire to leave the house.1 remained there for seven months. My lover heardof my removal from Greenock, and not being able toobtain information where 1 was, he wandered about,working a short time in his place, when he becatrae op¬pressed in spirits on my account, and could not settloto work. He took to excessive drinking, and associ¬ated with bad companions: he and two others robbeda gentleman named Heriot, on the Glasgow and Pais¬ley road: the rest escaped, but he was arrested in Glas¬gow, where he was tried and sentenced to 7 years’ tran¬sportation. My parents were one evening conversingabout me, my mother desired my father to letch meback, but he refused until Taylor had left England.Being overheard by Catherine M'Clarty, the cham¬bermaid, who was fond of me, and knowing where myuncle resided, and learning by their conversation thatI was in Glasgow, she resolved to set out in search ofme immediately,—which she accordingly did, and con¬trived to deliver a letter which informed me of my lo¬ver’s fate. 1 read it on going to bed at night, and myeelings maybe betterimagined than described—1 sankinsensible on the bed, whera 1 remained a consider*- able time: on recovering, 1 passed the rent ainder ofthe night in. planning my escape, which 1 effected the. next evening, taking £200 belonging to my nnde 1^was determined to go to the same place as my lover:dressed myself in man’s apparel, and paid my pass¬age on board the Maryanne, Emigrant ship, bound toNew South Wales, where, 1 learned, Robert Taylorwas sent. VTe sailed on the IGth November, 183d.' —on the 18th of the month tbl owing, we were visited bya tremendous tempest-—peals of thunder rolled throughthe dark concave of heaven, and the vivid flashes oflightning, by their awful brilliancy and grander seem¬ed to open the gates of the firmament, and presenteda dreadful and magnificent blaze of electric fluid-torrents of rain descending from the clouds, and all a-round conspired to produce in the breasts of the crewand passengers a feeling to lay ourselves down and dieto be relieved from the intense sn/ferings we enduredduring the terrible storm. The wind proved contrary,the vessel leaked- crew and passengers worked inccss-ently at the pumps, 1 and two others who were assist-ing on deck, were washed overboard, when 1 for¬tunately seized hold of of one of the masts of the shipwhich fell over the side—masts and yards being sweptaway. But, by the preserving power of th" Imighty1 escaped a watery grave, by being wasbeo ashore atdaybrake in the morning. 1 remained there the whol®day, and found myself on a desolate island—no humanbeing to administer to my wants or sooth my sorrow.At night 1 sought for some place of shelter, but couldfind none: atid being under fearful apprehensions ofbeing devoured by wild beasts that 1 heard roar, nhichstruck horror to my nearly broken heart: I climbed upa largo tree, where I remained till morning.—it wasthen that 1 thought of my father’s cruelty, he being thesole cause of my disastrous situation : but, praise be toHim ™-ho is always ready to assist in the hour of danger,those who believe in his promises, and put their trust*0 him. On the third day of my being on this deso-aJate place—-never will it be erased from my memory,tha joy 1 experienced r.t perceiving a sail at a distance :in my excessive joy, I climbed a tree, but 1 was at aloss then how to attract their attention : at length 1 de¬vised a plan—1 tied my shirt to one of the branches ofthe tree, it floated in the breeze, which they perceived,and knowing it to be a signal of distress, they sent theirboat to my relief, in which 1 reached the ship, whichproved to be a Dutch merchantman. 1 was conveyedto Amsterdam, where 1 was taken before the Britishconsel, to whom 1 discovered my sexvand related thewhole of my sufferings. He offered to procure me apassage to England, but 1 preferred to stay there for atime, in hopes of getting a passage to New SouthWales. But no vessel presented itself for the space oftwo years, during w-hich time 1 was in service with anEnglish family residing there. At the end of that time1 procured a passage, and travelled 300 miles in searchof my lover! 1 at length succeeded in discovering theplace he was employed in, and applied to his master,who kindly permitted us to have a private interview,which were the happiest moments of our lives. Mypen cannot describe our feelings on this occasion—weran to each others arms, while tears of joy ran downour cheeks. I was so overcome, that I fell down in¬sensible, and when 1 recovered, my lover was standingover me in breathless anxiety. After embracing eaehother affectionately, I related the whole of my suffer¬ings to him, for whose sake I underwent them.While I was relating them, we shed tears of joy andsorrow alternately, and at the conclusion he embracedme, saying, he hoped God would prolong our day*,tiid that the time was not far distant when we sheuldj joined in the bands of wedlock, never to be seper-until death. The master he was serving on learing the particulars, was astonished, and sympathisedeeply in our feelings, and said, he would renderis assistance to make us happy for the future. Hedmitted me into his house as a servant, where I re-lained till my lover's time expired, when we were mar-ied by the Rev. Mr. Jones, in the presence of ouraaster and several friends. After which he offeredis an opportunity of settling in that country, but weeclined, being desirous of returning to England Hehen rewarded me for my past services, which togeth->r with the money I brought from England, and thevages 1 received in Holland, procured us a passage toLiverpool, where we arrived on the 3rd of last month.We immediately repaired to Greenock, and were we!*lomed by my parents, who were overjoyed at staingheir long lost child, whom they never expected to seegain, for they had come to the conclusion, that 1 hadiestroyed myself, which caused great dissension a-aongst them, my mother laying all the blame on myEither, for refusing to consent to my marriage withtobert Taylor. We now reside in a plesant countryeat near Greenock, in the greatest harmony amongstur relations and friends.ELIZABETH SMITH.COPY OF VERSES.!om& all you constant lovers of high and low degree,pray you give attention and listen unto me,'he suffering* of a female, whom Cupid pierced her beast,“t her father had contrived it so, she and her lover to part.sin <tr»tjock u>vn *• did dwelt—from infants ioreu Binstce.But my fattier thus to p»n uf. acted « part severe;He sent me up to Glasgow that we might parted be —To my uncle's house confined me, which caused my misery.’ 'Robert Taylor was my lover's name, and when he came to knd!That we were eeperated, distracted he did go;He roamed about in deep distress—his mind could find no restThe tought of his Klim disturbed his troubled breast.In search of bis true love, he wandered up and down.In lonesome groves and valleys, and many a seapoit town;But still no tidings he could get of her he loved so dear,Which caused him dreary nights to pass, aad many a bitter tealHer absence threw him in despair, ali earthly joys were fled.And with a gang on the highway, to rob * y them was led :A gentleman of wealth and store they met upon the road,But he was seized, and 7 years sent o'er the salt sea flood.When I read my lover’s fate that night upon my bed.To rob my uncle, soon the thought came to my troubled head,SOO pounds from him I took, and quickly ran away,Dressed out in man's apparel to cross the raging sea.Our ship from Glasgow did set out to go to New South Wales,But on the way she was o’ertook by dreadful storms and gales;Her timbers crashed, her decks were swept by the resistless wavea,.And every one, except myself, met with a watery grave•_t,i «!> o.. .' a !: ilu . _ v.J > ar i ,n ... ,!Kind providence preserved my life—I wss washed on share.No food or ihelter could I find, but beard the wild beasts roar:By chance, a Dutch ship came that way, on her I. got aboard,Whea they found out I was a maid, their help they did afford.To New South Wales they did take me which eased my troubledmind,Hundreds of miles I travelled, my own true love to find ;But fortune still did prove my friend, my love I soon did see,Hit master when he heard my woe, shed tears cf grief for toe.He took me in his service, and was very fond of me,My Robert and I got married in the bonds of unity;And when his time was expired, to Scotland we sailed o’er,Gtsr friends reserved us kindly, never to part more.