THEArraigning and Indictingo pSir John BarleycornNEWLY COMPOSEDBy a well-wisher to Sir Johnand all that love him.STIRLING:Pri&ted by C. Randall, i8i$* *. f1%+ 0JOHN BARLEYCORN.THERE was three kings into the raftt jare.c kiiigs. ix;th gr.eat and higKAnd they hae fworn a f' letnn oa^h,John Barleycorn liaoultl die.They took a plough and plough'd himPut clods upon his head, {down,And they hae r’srorn a folemn oath*John Bariey corn was dead*Btit the chearful fprlng came kindly on,And fhow’rs began to fall ;John Barleycorn got up again.And fore furpriz’d them all.The fiiltry funs of Summer came.And he grew thick and ftrong,His head we el arm’d v-T pointed fpearsu,That no one ihould him wrong.The fofcer autumn enter’d mild,When he grew wan ano pale :JBh herding jomtr and drooping headfcnow’d he btgan to fail.3Rls colour ficken’d more and more,He faded into age ;And then his enemies beganTo iliew their deadly rage.They’ve ta’en a weapon long and £harp,And cur him by the knee .Then ty’d him fait upon a cart,Like a rogue for forgerie.They laid him down upon his back,And cwdgeli’d him full fore, *They hung him np before the ftorm.And turn’d him o’er and o’er*They filled up a darkfome pit,Vv ith water to the brim,They heaved in John Barleycorn,There let him fink or fwim.They laid him out upon th'' floor,I o work him farther woe,And flill, as figns of life appear’d,Tliey tofs’d him to and tro.They wafted, o’er a fcorching flamceThe marrow of his bones ;But a Miller us’d him worft of all,Jtie cruih’d him ’tween iwa (toneg.4And they hae taen his very heart’s bloodand drank it round and round jAnd ftill the more and more they drank,their joy did more abound,ANOTHER.ALL you that^be good fellows,come liften unto me.If that you love the alehoufcand merry company.Attend unto my (lory,which l fear is too true jIt makes my heart lull lorry,and many doth it rue.*Tis of a gallant noble Knight,which many know**ull veil.An honeft man I witnefs can,if I the truth may tell.His name is Sir John Barleycornwho makes both beer and bread.What would <!• all that now are born,if Barleycorn was dead ?For as I abroad did walk,1 heard a piteous cry, v. ? > 1‘ ' ■ -• , -■? "I.. r IAnd many a man did talk,that Barleycorn muft dieHis enemies increafe fo fall,at board and eke at bed,I fear their malice will not ceafttill they cut off his head.For Smut the honeft blackfmithwith many tradefinen more;And Snip the nimble taylor,doth tow he'll live ao O'.ore*! And Will the Weaver doth complainand many thoufands more ;H hope their labour is in vain,Therefore they may not roar.|Yet now a while give ear, , „you that aye ftanders by,(jAnd you prelently fhall hearSir John condemn’d to die.All you that love poor Barleycorn,!a good word for him give,And he that fpeaks againft him,I wilh he may not live.- -I-V.*r • MTHEINTRODUCTION- *“ * * 'j * * * *.r * Ta» fW'* -T'Jr ^ * * * ' ^ •'■ * iSir John Barleycorn’s Trial.Gentlemen,IF you pleafebut give fbnrucb attentionand you fhall prefeptly bear Sir JohnBarleycorn, called to the bat,'and ail hisaccufers appear, giving in tbe:r bills a-gainft him j and alio his friends, who ap¬pear in his behaff, and thereby faved hislife after he was condemned to die.< • /The TRIAL ofSir John Barleycorn•Oyer,Ck Yes, O Yes, O Yes, If any man orV woman in country, town, or city;have any fxits or bills of indiOment a-gainft bir John Barleycorn, let them ap¬pear this day, and they fhall either hearor be heard.^ 3Vulqanthe blackfmith appears, add givesin his Bill.Be it known to you all, Gentlemen,that this Sir John Barleycorn hath beeixa fore enemy to me and many of my feb<lows. For many a time, when l hav?»been bufy at my arork, not thinking anymanner of harm to any man, but having |a fire fpark in my throat, and one time Igoing to the fign of the Gup and K.an forone penny worth of ale, there I found SirJohni and thinking no harm to any one* 8[ fet me down to fpend my two-pence ;but! in the end Sir John began to pick aquarrel with me, and then I darted upthinking to go about my budnefi ; butthen Sir John ' had got fuch fad hold ofme by the top of my head, that I had nopower of myfelf; and by his drengthand power threw me down, broke myhead, and bruifed other parts ot mypurfe, and left me not a penny; and there¬fore he deferves to die.Will the Weaver.> . . * ■ x \ *Now Gentlemen T befeech you hearinc Ipeak, I am but a poor man and havea wife, and a charge of children, and ambut a poor weaver by my trade ; and th'Sunkind companion will never let m« aC-lone, but always enticing me from mywork, and will not be quite till he hath*r>c to the alehoufe, and when there, healways quarrels with me, and abufei memod bafely, and femetimes he binds meboth hand and foot and throws me into aeiitch, days with me all night, arid licitmorning leaves me without a penny in9my pocket and therefore if y6u hang him1 fh*l! never grieve.The Taylor cornea*And I fhall nerer be fbrry if you eitherhang drown or banilh him; for he hathbeen a great enemy to me this many yearspaft j i always loved Mr. Wheat betterthan Sir John, yet one time as 1 was com¬ing home from my work, I efpied SirJohn and two or three good fellows quar-jrelling, I Skipped among them, thinkingto make them good friends; For why,thought I, Ihould neighoours fall out ;but as foon as Sir john faw me take niyneighbours^ part, he ftraightway beganto quarrel with me, anc'gave me fuch athump on the teeth, that f fell backwardand broke both my elbows and my yardwand. Nay, worfe than that, the veryfame day my wife met with him, and helike an ill conditioned knave abufed her,infomuch that Ihe learned of him fame of*bis oufehievous tricks and come home f>IO ,drunk, that though fhe could fcarcelyHand, fhe beat my back and fides blue.Nay ihe has got the way fo perfect, thati I am perfuaded Hu; will never leave it jI and therefore by my content you fhouldi put him to the fame death that many of| my enemies have been put to, that is* toi fuap off liis head,ij IV; r. Wheatly.lHead him, aye hang him too, if youpleaie, you lhali have my conietit, for Iam ture he doth deferve it; for 1 am cei-taip,he .doth daily and hourly abufe me.X-am fwje 1 have been a man that hath of¬tentimes been highly #ffeemed both byLords, Knights and Squires, and nonecould pieafe them io well as James *Wheatly the Baker, But no w the calc isaltered, fir jol a Barky corn is the manthat is highly citeen -d hi every place, 1am fall but plain James. Wheatiy, andhe is now Sir jol n Bar leycorn in everyone’s mouth, t hough he nas i mned manyhoned man in lingland ; tor the com¬pany of our John Barleycorn l can proveit to be true, has ffusiy cauled many an11honed man to wade and con fume all thatever he had, and mote if he can but geeit. Nay he hath caufed many a man toto fell houfe and land, arid all that everhe had, to inamt am riot with Sir JbhhBarleycorn. Nay when men have dorit;all that ever they can, fold all (pent idlyand left nothing, yet the fancy they bearto Sir fohn Barleycorn makes them roband deal for money. ■ Nay, robbing andft eating 'will not ferve fometimes, butthey kill and flay* murdering one anoth¬er for money to keep Sir John Barleycorncompany, till at lad the hangman getfepart of them.- And this Sir John Barleyscorn is the -great foundation of all thtfcmifehief, aud there fori he defer ves toloie his headOld Noll and Old Nick the Judges.4. " , y . r t <^/a. tL*: *% » pi* « I.Well, what anfwer can you make foryourfelt, Svr John ? You hear the com¬plaints made againft you, wherein youare itrongly accufed both of felony arnjmurder.I12! Sir John.• ■ ■— iarf — JiI b«feech you Oentinmen, to let mei have the benefit < f the law to -fpeak fori myfelf, if it fliall ple*fc you to hear me,! I hope 1 fhall clear xnyfelf.I 7g*-J :»*. \ fhl .• aYcu know Gentlemen every man is! willing to make his cafe as good as hecan, although he himfelf is in the fault,and as the old proverb gods, Some hadbetter fteal a horfe than other* look overthe hedge ; and ib it is by me in the pre¬sent cafe j hut as 1 am not accufed by•nly one of the perfons, but by ail ofchtrin, fo I inland to make an(wer to themall at once.• i,.. '.. . f.: , ,, ^ , j 1Thefe men complain that Sir JohnBarleycorn hath undone them all, whichis falfe, as I doubt aot but to make ap¬pear.1 ’ : 14 ■: f.I.confefs my name is Sir John Barley¬corn, but you never kuevv Barleycorn doany harm, but always good, and has re¬lieved as many poor people as any man,and will do fo ftill if tfiey do not abufeme and my name as they have done, tor| this fometime paft l have been uftd verybadly j and it is Mr. Malt if any one hasdone us all this wrong, which they faythat I have done*Mr. Malt.Who I, brother John ? Indeed, butonly thou art my brother, and l love theewell, or I fhould hit thee one Hap on thyteeth, but time will come when we Hullmeet again.• \Gentlemen, as for my own part I willput the matter to the bench. But tirft Ipray you couiider with yourfelves, thatalt tradefmen fhould live, and althoughI MaRer Malt do fometimes make a cupof good liquor, ami many men some totaite it, yet the fault is neither in me normy brother John. No, no, the fault isin iueh as thele who make fehis com¬plaint againlt us, as I fhail make appearto you ah.*4As in the. fii ft place, which of yon allcan fay, hut M-dkr Malt can make acup or good liquor, tf'iih the help of agoodbrewer? ana vvlien it is'tnale it mult befold. 'Lhe fault is not sin the drink or themaker; tor 1 pray which of you canwithout it; but when fueh as thefe ascon'iplain of us, find it to be good, whenthen they have fui^ti. a-4gfcedy mind, thatthey think they ihall never have enoughfor their money ; and fo Will overcomesWit, and then they begin to quarrel fir ftWith each other, and then they abuie meand my brother Sit John, fo that in theend we aie forced to take them down failafieep. 1 hen i pray you judge whetherwe or they are in the taulr.The Judges^Truly we cannot fee that you are muchin the taulti, however you mu ft give bail,ipr your^ood behaviour to Mr. Mault.-—Ana as tog you, Sir John, you muft ap¬pear at tne next Sefttons, to anfwer whatmay be further objedled to you, andmake your deience, and io fare you wellfor -this unie.)• . *5Now Sir John Barleycorn and his bro*fther Wait marcheu od' together in tri-umph, and for joy that they got to well(off, they tveiit alongiinginj tlic follew-iingibng. v*. ■■ un«Tip* -ri j■.*.* . :■{ .4 0:;> ‘5;.. . W *• j % "■ •>? •(*nA New Song.ALL you who are good fellows,Come hiieii unco tne,if you do love the alehoufe,And keep good company.My name is Sir John Barleycorn,Which many know full well,My brother’s name is Mailer Malt,As many one can tell.Tho’ Smut the hone it black fmitk.Of me doth lore coni.plainpvEre long l know I liiali not mifsTo ilioot him thref the brain.i6And honeft Will the Wcarea^For all he i« to (lout,I khow he will endeavourto have the other bout.Tho* Mailer Wheat the hater,he*ll be my younger brother.He’ll not deny a bout to try,with me or any other.And Dick the nimble taylor,will venture his bed (hears,Till Barleycorn and Mailer Mall,do take them by the ears.There’s not a tradefman in the land,that ever yet was born.But will take a touch ibnraetimes too muchof Sir John Barleycorn.Therefore ait honeft tradefmen,a good word for me give,And pray that Sit joi n Barleycornmay always with you live.Mafter Malfter.Hark you brotHsr Joint, you knowyou are to appear again to make anfirerfor yourfelf; therefore I would aclrifefou to provide fomc honeft men to fpeakfor you, or elfe you wilt be in great dan¬ger of lofing your head and then we areail undone.Sir John Barleycorn:' V. ▼ . t nriO brother Malt take you’ no care forme, for my part t d.) not tear but i (hallhave enough to fpeak 5 or me ; no man inthe nation is better beloved- than I am,therefore welcome luck, live or die I fearnothing fb fare you well, tor this time.THE court being again ajrembled,Sir John Barleycorn was broughtto the bar.The Judges.Sir John Barleycorn, anfwer to whathas bee laid- to you charge ; fuch highcrirries. as if von capnot clear yourlelf, Ifear Jqu muft looi'c your head.''•» f* r ’ *: t » t x f ‘ f ^ { ; __»i if' ^ * j k , A*.'* -Sir John Barleycorn.A very lharp piece of bufinefs truly,gentlemen, i hope, gentlemen, you are. Ip«to heaf my wltnefles fpeak, who T fear rj not will make it plainly appear that l amI fallely accufed.The Judges;Thou fhak have any favour that canhe had, therefore bring in your witneflesand let us hear what they can fayin yourbehalf.fr. ‘ f r rr, ■ f f >• h . , jThe Ploughman enters.Gentlemen, I pray a man may fpeakwithout offence, who intends to .fay thetruth, *od nothing more.i-jri ef p’'.j?ii KMft k-Oi >"vThe Judges.Yes, thou tnayell; be bold to fpeak thetruth, and nothing more, for that is thecaufe we fit here for ; fo therefore nowfpeak up boldly, that we may understandthee. l . ■-Ploughman.' Gentlerren, in the firft place let mehear what bold impudent rrigue dare tofay one word againd Sir John Barley-20corn • whoever he is he is no better thana Rogue a thief a traitor to the brownloaf the brafs pot the oven and the fpit;nay he is a traitor to the whole world,that would take away the life of fo noblea man as Sir John Barleycorn, for he isa man of an ancient and honorable houieand is come of noble fpirited race, thcre-is neither Lord Knight nor Squire butloves his company, and he theirs, as longas they do not abufc Kim ; and in thefirll place very few ploughmen can livewith out him, for if it were not for himwe could not pay our landlord* theirrent, and then what would fuch men asyou do for money and fine cloaths ? Nayyour pay ladies would care but little foryou, if you had not your rents comingin to maintain them, and we could neverpay but that Sir John Barleycorn finds uswith money, and yet would you feek totdee av^ay his life; tor thame, let yourmalice ceafc and {pare his lite, for if youdo not we are all undone.11 yEnter Bunch.Gentlemen I befeech vou hear me, I *im a Br«wer and I believe few of von canive* without a cup ot liquor, any moreban f can live without Sir John; andor my own part I maintain a greatbarge j i pay forty pounds a week, taxesLo hia Majefty (God blefs him ^ and allhis is maintained by Sir John. Thennow can any man for fiiaine want to takeliway his life.Enter Miftrefi Hoftefs,Take hisf life! pray who is it thatwould attempt to “take away his life ?—;f they talte off his head, they (hall takeibff mine too. What fad impudentRogues are they who lay foi I am per¬suaded that they are none who love thei|)oor commonality : lurcly they are noneout fome miferable rogues, that make5heir bags their God, heaping up theirhefts with money to (top the devilstncuth when he comes to fetch them 5uch as thefe would have nobody livebut themfelves. Incfeed fuch as thefswoiild take off the head of any man ifthey could enrich thfndelves by it A-Vi?ay you vagabond* ! away you muck¬worms of the world you would l|^ve nor-body live but yourfelves. I hope Sip,John Barleycorn will thrive among!! us,when Old Nick fhall fetch fuch as youaway by ten at a burden. Gentlemen,I beieech yon to take no notice of whatfuch fellows fay, for they care not whatblood they ihecl*As for Sir John Barleycorn I knowhim to be an heneft man, and never af¬fronted any man, if they do not abufehim fir ft ; and in fo doing, they abufethemfelves, for all they fay he abidestherm I do proteft, Gentlemen, thatbefore you take his life you ftiall takemine. Nay, I befeech you to give meleave to fpeak to you ; it you put him todeath, all England will be undone; forthere is not fuch. another in the land, thatcan do what he can and hath done ; forhe can make a cripple to go, he can makea coward to fight with a valiant foldier;nay, he can make a good foidier to feeneither hunger nor cold, JbdSdes for%| valour in himfelf mere are few that cani encounter with him, for he can pull downItheflrongeft man in the world, and layhim taft aile-p, therefore I beleerh yougentlemen to let him live, or elfe we *re,ii all undone-Enter a Farmer.! 'Gentlemen, all this is true the womanfpeaks, - or if you put Sir John Barleycornto death, I and mine are all undone, forJ I pay a great rent for my farm, and keepIS a ,c;reat many fervants under me, whichI 1 Hand me in great charges, ai'd if you putSir John Barleycorn to-death, ! and mineare all undone, fo 1 pray let him live, ifyou love the Common VVeaith,' The Judges.Well we fee no caufc of death in thisman therefore he fhall not die.•Sir John, your life is now your own-henceforth and for evermore ; thereforedown on your knees and pray for theJking.I Sir John.I will Sir, and curfe on his heart thatwill not lay amen to my prayer.fSir Johns Prayer;O Heaven proteft our gracious King,his parliament alio,1 Lord grant them long time to be fecn,in fpite of every foe.jI .. , .From traitors that feek their lives,and them for to deftroy,Defend them Lord with one accord,Unto their fubjecls joy.i'That while fun and moon doth laft,jf* we may enjoy a King,And when death comes provide himwith angels for to fing.And He or She, whoe’er they be, «that will not fay Amen,Sir John doth pray both night and day,They ne’er may fpeak again:¥ I N I S.— 1> *• * -£\ \>‘j si