TRUE AND CORRECT NARRATIVECF'fn£;gREADFUL BURNINGIn.TH PERSONS BURNED AND BROWED,AND ONLY 4G SAVED,DUNDEEiPrinted for K. Crombie and G. Gordon, by James Redger,Slarch 5,fLEASE TO PURCHASE THIS BOOK FRO.AI TWOPOOR SAILORS.sBURNING OF THE AMAZON.>Pi,YMoth, January 6 It is our painful duty to report thoparticulars of a most appalling accident. The new Mail steam¬ship Amazon, Captain Symons, which left Southampton on Fri¬day for the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico, has been totallyconsumed by fire; and of 161 persons who were on board of herwhen she left, it is feared only 46 have been saved.The Amazon left Southampton on”Friday afternoon, and iatheChannel experienced strong head winds and rain. At a quarterbefore one on Sunday morning, when the ship was about lit*mile.; west south-west of Scilly, a lire broke out suddenly, forwardon the starboard side, between the steam-chest and the underpart of the galley, and shortly after the flames rushed up thogangway which is in front of the foremast funnel. The alarmbell was rung, and Captain Symons rushed on deck in his shirtand trousers. Wet swabs and other things were placed on the( gratings of the spar deck hatch, and a hose was brought to playon the main deek, but quickly abandoned in consequence of theexeesuive beat. The deck pumps were also kept at work untilthe men were forced to retire. The wind was blowing hall a galefrom south-west, and the vessel was going fU notes, whieh washer average rate from the time of departure. Captain Symonsordered some hay, between the engine-room crank gratings, tohe thrown overboard ; two trusses were hoven over the ship’sside; but the tire igniting the main body, the henhoops on eachside, and the paddle-boxes, tho men were obliged to abandon thedeck, and those who could leave were all finally driven from theship. Many were burned in their berths, others suffocated, ant4BURNING OFa great number were drowned on the lowering of the boats. Tinyaccount was brought into port on Monday by the brig Marsden,of London, from Cardifl', with iron, for South Carolina, whichpicked up from the life-boat twenty-one of the persons above re¬ferred to. Mr Vincent (son of Captein Vincent of the Severin),the midshipman in the Amazon, who was saved, has furnished thefoBowing narrativeWe left Southampton with the West Indian and Mexicanmails on board on Friday, the 2d instant. On the 3d at noon, wewere in lat. 49. 12 N., long. 4 56 W., steering west by south haltsouth, with an increasing Iresh breeze. At 9. 30;>.»!. we stop¬ped v/ith half bearings. At 11. 20 we proceeded, wind still in¬creasing. About 20 minutes to 1 on Sunday morning fire wasobserved bursting through the hatchway foreside of the fore fun-aael. Every exertion was made to put out the fire; all eyas inef¬fectual. The mail boit. was lowered, with twenty or twenty-fivepersons in it, but was immediately swamped and went astern,the people clinging to one another. They were pll lost. Thepinnace was next lowered, but she bung by the fore tackle, andbeing swamped the people were ell washed out of her. Inlowering the second cutter the sea raised her end unhooked thefare tackle, so that she fell down perpendicularly, and all but twoof the persons in her were washed out. . Captain Symons was allthis time using his utmost exertions to save iiis passengers armcrew. Sixteen men, including two passengers, succeeded inlowering the life boat, and about the same time, I (Mr Vincent),with two men, the steward and a passenger, got into and lower¬ed the dingy. In about half-an-hour the lifeboat took thedingy's people into her, and bore down for the ship, with thedingy in tow ; but the sea increasing, and being nearly swamped,they were obliged to cast the dingy off and bring the boat headto sea. The masts went—first the foremast, aud then the mizen-jnast. About dill's time a barque passed astern of the lifeboat ;we hailed to her with our united twenty-one voi tea and thoughtshe answered us, but she wore and stood under the stern ot theburning vessel, and immediately hauled her wind and stood awayagain. The gig with five hands was at this time some little wayfrom us, but the sea was running so high we could render herno assistance, and shortly afterwards lost sight of her. About 4(Sunday) it was raining heavily, and^he wind shifted toTHE AMAZON.die. northward ; sea confuse*], but decreasing ; put the boat 'Jaf.U':*the sea. At rive o’-Jlnek the ship's magazine expio la I, anti ahotithaif-an-hour afterwards the funnels went over th ; sidrs and sh.isunk. At noon we were picked up by the fl! ai s Ion, of Eondnn,XJaptain Evans, by whom we were treated in thekindest mannerpossible. We were picked up in bit. 48. 5 N., long it 30 W.;wind north to north east. The captain stood intVr'the coast ofFrance, hut the wind shifting to the southward he boro un forPlymouth, where we arrived at 10. lf> p.m on the 5th, and weremost hospitably and itincliy received by the landlord of the GlobsHotel. 'Mr R. Neilson, one of the only two passengers saved, reportsas follows :—.c<At 12.40, fire broke out. In less than ten minutes it wasbursting up the fore and maim hatchways. Out of 151! peopleon board, only twenty-one are,. .1 believe, saved for I was in tliehist boat that left the ship, and one of the two last men who gotin after lowering her, by springing from the ship’s sidewind ^lidring down the tackle fall. The tire caught the other man andburned the hair of his face before he sprang off.”The following descriptive and more detailed accounts havebeen collected from day to day.:,—“The boats of the Amazon were fitted with iron cranes (orcrutches) on which their keels.rested ; these-fitting* cbstructod.their cle trance from the ship, and but fur this fatal arrangementthe serious loss pf life would have.bpgn lessened. Cnpfiin Sy¬mons ordered that no one should get .into the boats. This orderwas obeyed (until the people saw the flames overpowering theah;p). lie was last seen with the naan at the wheel, ordering tinthelm to be. put up, so'as to keep the ship before the wind. Hislast words were—£It is all over with her.’ The officer of thewatch, Mr Treweeke (second officer), was-walking the bridgewhen the accident was discovered. Mr Henry Roberts, chiefofficer, (in his shirt only,) was actively assisting the captain ; hawas last seen going through the companion down to the maip.deck, and is supposed to have perished there. Mr Lewis (thirdofficer), Mr Goodridge (fourth officer), and two midshipmen,*v2me of whose berths were forward on the port side of the pjcBURNING OF<S.:U«, 'acre probably suffocated, as were alsa tba chiefCR^tneor3if Georf»e Aagus, and Mr Allen, the superintending engineer(on behalf of Mr Seward the oonstructer of the engines,) as thevwere seen in the engine-room ten minutes before the lire brokegoing forward, there being no possibility of their returnthrough the flames. ( The second engineer, Mr William Angus,w as on the spar deck, between the funnel and the crank gratings,puking oars, and throwing them out of the way of the fire on thedeck, near the boats.) The two best boats were stowed on the topof the sponsors where the flames prevented approach. Aftert lie Amazon was put about, she went at the rate of 12 or 13 knots,dead before the wind. One boat on tbe starboard side, the se¬cond cutter, was full of people, when the wash of the sea unhook¬ed tiie foremast tackle ; she held on by the stern tackle, and herstern falling into sea, all except two were drowned, in conse¬quence of the ship's speed. The pinnace was observed’on theport side, towing by the fore tackle, behind the burning ship;and as no one cut the tow rope, the miserable passengers, whowere all huddled together, were one after the other washed intothesen. The mail boat, which was also full of people, havingshipped a quantity of water, went down alongside.“ When the flames had approached the after-companion, twomale passengers came tip from the saloon, all in flames, andt uniting aft), fell on the deck. A tall lady, supposed to be MrsMac'.aren, entreated some one to takecareof her child ; but sheWould not enter either of the boats. Dineford, the quarter-mas¬ter. placed one lady passengerin a boat; but she being extremely-agitated, got out again, and although Henry Williams and an¬other used some force and begged her to go in, she persisted inremaining on board. The stewardess, Mrs Scott, with her bon¬net and shawl on, and something in her hand, first asked Steerto put her id the dingy, and then left for a larger boat. At thetime of leaving, some of those who yet lived were kneeling oilthe deck praying to God for mercy; while others, almost in astate of nudity, were running about screaming with horror.“ The survivors escaped in the after-starboard second life-boat,in which was Mr Neilson. One of her occupants (Mayiiu) inienving, pressed his foot through the burning deck and injuredit: two others (Williams and Passmore) had to climb the star-l>oard paddle-box through the ilameg and smoke. They sue-Till: AMAZON4ceedeJ after t’aree attempts, and tlien slid down hands and hteeover thij paddle-box into the boat; several slid down by the tac¬kles. Two of the watch board (Williams and Foster,) had theirhair burnt while burning on deck. When the life-boat left therewere sixteen „n hoard ; they heard some one shouting in thewater, and tlu'ew over a keg and some oars. They endeavouredto approach, but a sea carried the boat off. They tlien took .MrVincent, ]Mr Williamson, Mr Sisley, and two sailors from thedingy, and making her fast to the stern, towed after the- burningwreck, thinking to save more livt s ; but the dingy having filled,they were obliged to cut her adrift, and fearing that they them¬selves should be swamped, their boat's head was put to face thesea. Tv. he oars were at work, the wind was increasing, andheavy squalls coming on. They saw the ship’s gig full of people,snouting as if for assistance, and at the same time descried a sailstanding apparently to the southward. The vessel appeared topass between the two boats, and after this the gig was not seen ;whether !,:.e swamped or was’taken up by the stranger is un¬known. The strange vessel came pretty close under the life-bor.t’s stern, when all shouted together, and thought they wereanswered on board t'he was a barque, under close-reefed top-r:..:s, foresail, and fore-topmast staysail ; her spanker was hang¬ing in the brails as if she was in the act of wearing. Soon afterhey hc-lm was put up, and sic? bore right down towards the wreck,behind which she disappeared. The masts of the steamer wentwor before four o'clock in the morning, the foremast on the port,and the mainmast on the starboard side. One poor fellow ap¬peared at the jib-boom end ; the jib was cut loose, and was blowni way. Her rnizenmast was standing while she was in flames• Iroin stem to stern. About five o'clock, when the life-boat waspassing the ship in a lewardly direction, the gunpowder in hertwo magazines aft exploded; and in about twenty minutes, themizen having gone by the board, she made a heavy lurch andwent down, her funnels being red hot, and stid standing,“ Thosoin the boat now pulled before the sea and wind, think¬ing to make the French coast, which was, as they thought, thenearest. Mr Vincent’s monkey jacket, being mounted on anoar, was their only sail, and the boat kept dry by bailing her withhis boots. At half-past ten o’clock on Sunday morning they sawa brig, ami, t: king down the jacket, they hoisted hapdkerchipft,3BURNING OFfore and r.ft, for signals of distress; and at 12 o'c.cck cl.cy weretaken on board the Marsden, as Mr Vincent has described.’’The passengers rescued in the life-boat are Mr Hawkes, VeraUfuz, Mr Neilson of Liverpool, bound for Demerara, Mr T. Sis¬ley, bound for Chagres.The officers of the crew saved are .Mr Vincent, junior, mid¬shipman, and Mr James Williamson, the chief steward.The rest of the people saved are Mr Dimsford, quartermaster,and 15 seamen and firemen.The crew were the picked men of the whole Company’s ser¬vice, and Captsin Symons was distinguished for his skill andbravery:The lost passengers are Messieurs De Pass and Delgado, Lieu¬tenant Geylls, Mr Fellows, and Reverend Mr and Mrs Winton,Jamaica ; Mr Best and servant, Mr Kilkelly, Messieurs Calenderand Stirling, and Mr Aileyne, Barhadoes ; Mr Johnston, MrBurnett, and Mr and Mrs Scotland, Trinidad; Mr Hick, andMr and Mrs M’Clinnow, Demerara ; Mr Illliot Warburton ; MrGeraud, M. and Madame*. Lacombe and child, M. Iversabcc. 3JrCinna, Mr Barincose, and Mr Dellemare, Chagrcs ; Mr M. DelRio, Margaret Fitcgerald, Mr Fevrler, and Mr Glennie, VeraCruz; Miss Smith, Porto Rico; Mr Joel, Jamaica; Mr Cum¬mins and Mr Evans,! Thomas; Mr Cardenna-s Santa Martha;Mr Blood, Mr Anthony, and Mr Hamilton, Jamaica ; Mr Ft'r-r?ar, Grace Hoare, Mr Stryhoo, and Mr Granter, Vera Cruz;Mr Crevecowst, St Rhc-mas; Mr Le Faye, Guarialoupe.The superior officers of the ship who perished areWilliam Symons, Commander.Henry Roberts, 34 chief officer, Gosport.Charles H. Treweeke, 20, second officer, lilogan.J. Lewis, 28, third officer, Kingston, Jamaica.J. W. Fullerton, 37. surgeon, county of DonegalMr H. Strutt, 33, purser, Middlesex.F. Stainworth, Hi, midshipman, East Indies.W. K. Stuart, 15, midshipman, Tallyhog.T. \V. Shnpcott. 28, purser’s-assist. f outhamjrt*THE AMAZON 1The petty officers areGeorge Angus, 34, chief engineer, Dunbar."William Angus, 32, second do., Dunbar.Four other engineers succeeding in rank.'Debray Theophite, 30, cook, France.Three other cooks..Joseph Kirby, 36, the baker, Southampton.The rest were seamen and fireman.The cause of the destruction of the Amazon is unknown ; shewas under steam from the time of her departure to the period ofthe accident. As is usual with new machinery, water was keptalmost continually playing on the bearings of the engines. Onaccount of the heat of these hearings, the ship was stopped off theBill of Portland on Friday night between the hours of eight andtwelve, and about the same period on Saturday night she wasstopped for two hour; and a half; however, the necessity for theoperation of wetting these parts was decreasing, as the main cen¬tre bearings were getting more sweet, and the engine altogetherin better order. The position ot the fire rendered it impossibleto get at the engines in order to stop them. When the ship’shead was to windward the flames swept tiie after-decks, wherethe passengers chiefly were. Before the wind, she was going at[ a tremendous speed ; and it is marvellous how any of the boatswere launched under such circumstances and in such a se,*.The escape of the Title dingy is no doubt due to the calmness' and intrepidity of young Mr Vincent; >vho, though a mere boyin years, proved himself a thorough man and sailor on this oc¬casion. He not only guided his small boat in safety till he join¬ed the life-boat, but there he took immediate command as supe¬rior officer, and did everything in iiis power to sustain the cour¬age of the crew throughout that dreadful night.The value of the Amazon when ready for sea was about4.100,006. The loss ot that sum falls entirely upon the insuranceland of that company,—a fund exclusively devote from annualgi'ants derived from the profits of the Company towards suchcasualties. The value of the specie, quicksilver, cargo, Ac.,when added to the vaiue-of the ship, will give a total loss of pro¬perty by this melancho'y occurrence of little less }hau X-hfyOl*1 i!Burning ofThe West India Mail Company has been the most unfoi1-tnnate of all the great steam-packet associations in the loss oftheir steam-ships. Since the establishment of the company inIbf 1 no less than eight of their fleet of steamers have been de¬stroyed by casualties on the sea.FURTHER SURVIVORS.Brest, Jan. ti.The Dutch vessel Gertruida, Tunteler, entered the roads hereto-day with 25 shipwrecked persons, picked up in two l^oats fromthe Amnzon.She picked up the first boat yesterday (Sunday, the 4th of Janu¬ary), at haif-past six o'clock in the evening, and the second thismorning at seven o'clock.In the presence of such a catastrophe, the British vice consul,in the absence of Sir Anthony Perrier, the consul, who is detainedin Paris by bis duties as a member of the International SanatoryCommission, lost no time in endeavouring to save the lives olthose who, according to the accounts given by the passengers whohave arrive 1 here, were saved in the four or five other boatswhich escaped from the wreck, and which, from appearance,must stilt bp struggling against the waves. Tim maritime per¬fect was immediately applied to, and he at once agreed to giveevery assistance, and the Souffleur steamer, which was in the har¬bour, was in'!aie']lately ordered out. Captain Cabaret, the cap¬tain of the Soaffleur, prepared for sea with a promptitude whichdid him great credit; but owing to confused information givenhim by the crew and passengers rescued by the Gertruida, he re¬turned without having fallen in with any of the boats which wasamissing.The whole of the shipwrecked passengers and crew who ar¬rived by the Gertruida have been brought ashore in boats, and amore melancholy spectacle than they presented could not be pic¬ture:!. Among them are two ladies and a child ; and their suffer¬ings may be conceived from the fact that besides all the otherTHE AMAZON.! 1horrors they had gone through, they were exposed to all the in.clemency of the weather, during nearly forty-eight hours, almostin a state of nudity. Immediately on their arrival, several ladieshastened to send them the clothing which they so much wanted.The family' of Sir Anthony Perrier also hurried to the assistanceof their distressed countrywoman, and with their ordinary' hu.inanity had the two ladies and their child removed to their house.One of the ladies—Mrs Eleanor Roper M'Clinnon—is severelyburnt. During the whole of the period between the alarm of fireand the time she left the ship she clung with maternal devotion toher child (a boy eighteen months old), and, when so many othersperished, contrived to save the lives of both. Her husband, whowas in the employment of the Government at Demerara, was alsoin the vessel; but her companions in misfortune declared thatthey thought he was blown up in the steamer when the magazineblew rip. The other lady passenger, Miss Anna Maria Smith,from Dublin, on her way to Porto Rico, to join a family in whichshe was to be the governess. The male passengers are all lodgedat an hotel here, by directions of the Vice Consul. They arealso completely destitute, both of money and clothing, but havebeen amply provided with shoes, hats, and wearing apparel, bythe Vice Consul, who has also secured means to convey themwith the least possible delay to Morlaix, where they will be ship,ped for England.I have only to add that Captain Tunteler, of the Gertruida.has acted with most pra is worthy humanity. He not only placedeverything that was on board his vessel at the disposal of our ship¬wrecked countrymen, but had gone out of his track to carry themto the nearest harbour. 4The following is a list of the persons saved in the two boatsresetmd by the Gertruida, and landed at Brest-:—TIKST BOAT.Eleanor Roper M'Clinnon and child, passenger*Frederick Glennie, passenger.Bernardo Barrincose, ditto.Jacob Allan, foreman at Mr Seaward'sJohn Lament, fireman.William Stone, ditto.William Goodman, ditto.THE AMAZON*,Henry Carter, fireman.Charles Samy, ditto.George Harding, ditto.George Lueah, ditto.Jamest Rodgers, seaman.James Berryman, ditto.Frederick Wall, sailor boy.Michael Gould, second Stewart.SECONll BOAT.Anna Maria Smyth, passenger,William Evans, ditto.Jean Strybos, ditto.George I)ea], quartermaster,Alex. Laing, quartern!aster,Daniel Brown, seaman.Joseph Welsman, ditto.Thomas Attwood, firemen.Ye-landsmen all draw near awhile, and listen unto me,V/hi!e I relate the mournful wreck that happened on the sea ;The loss of the steam-ship Amazpn, whose fate we now deplore.When1 sailing on the ocean, bound for Columbia shore.On the second day of January eighteen hundred and fifty-two.They left Southampton harbour with passengers and crew.They numbered 156, -whose hearts beat light and free,No Tear or dread their minds o’erspread, in crossing o’er the sea.N’o.incident oocnred as they ploughed the raging tide.Till one o’clock bn Sunday morn, when fire it was espied.It came rushing o’er the hatch-way from the funnels lores!Je^And every exertion to quell the flames was tried.But eh, alas, exertroiis they proved all in vain.Consider now their sad distress upon the open main,TheCyptain cries, our ship is gone, although a man so brave,Coine low’er the boats, my brave boys, the^people’s lives to save.iV. tower the boats immediately began his men so brave.The mail boat it was soon let down, some of their lives to save )Alas ! it was soon swamped, and many there did weep.It sank beneath the briny tide, and was buried in the deep.The flames were still increasing,—distressing was the scene,' And to fly from the destruction, all efforts proved in vain ;Their cries were like to rend the air, but nothing could them save*One hundred and thirty-five of them met with a watery grave.But now unto these mouurful lines, 1 now must hid adieu.We understand no blame is given to the Captain or his crew;May kind Heaven be the comforter of those that now do weep.For all their dear relations that notv lie in the deep,