FA LKlRK:/PRINTED by T.JC i?> i3j-9. 7SOMERemarkable Pafiap-es' " “ EOFMr. John Livingston,Late MmiHer of the Gofpel at Ancrum,* in i evioxEale. *With a particular Account of hi* remarkable.Serjiom at the Kirk of SirrTs, b)t which,about, hive hundred perfonswere Converted.V+SUUHillSs4v* -**•** ^.“###»•#SSMHJili.s=x jr• » • • • •VDHEM ARK A B LE 1’A S SAGESis the life ofMb. JOHN LIVINGSTON.'uJohn Livingston was hcra mir 1603,. H* »**s 1°° fp Mr. Vvii-vinglipih ’nitnU^t'1' Monybroch,Vih. Vhf) wasj^'terwar.k trans-> Lanerk ; he was nsariy relatedicse of Calendar.his con to readhi.rtrlo the iatinSchoolMr. Wallace, a godly_w,.y He stlfied ’.here till7, when he retifrned home.—followiag he was sent to the,* where he stayedtuil he passed Master offeicer ih.fi, he fiiayed with' • * hisC 3 )during which time he began to observethe Lord’s great goodness that he wasborn of ruch parents, who taught himthe principles of religion so soon as hewas capable to understand any thing.Hn says, in his own Historical Accountof his Life, that lie does not rememberthe time or means of particularly, wherebythe Lord at first wrought upon his heart;only, v, hen he was very young, he wouldSometimes pray with s-me feeling, andread the w^rd with s>Tne delight; butthereafter did uften intermit such exer¬cises, and then w-mld have Svrae chal¬lenges, aud begin and intermit again, Stc*name, pra ting-that he slv-uld marryand live there j but this hrxefused, think-( 4 );ng it wruld divert him frofn his Rudies,and, in the midll cf these straits, he re-sdved t<> set apart a day by himself beforeGfd, f r m' re special dindlion ; which hedid near Cleg-horn-woi d, where, aftermuch c nfusion anent the state of his s ul,at last he thought it was made out to him,that he behoved to preach Jesus Christ;.■ which if he did not, he should have noassurance salvati n. Upon which, lay-,ing a fide all thoughts of tfer things, he•betock himself to the study of divinity.Hn continued a year and a half in hisfather’s h /use, wherr he studied and some¬times preached. During which time. Irewr te all his Sermons before he preachedthem, ujftil one day ^eing to preach afterthe Or* Vision at Q ■ »' t and havingin readiness a Sernv. v i." he hadpreach':‘d at an ther -V • ^*1 hefire;but p ceiving Severs:. ■*.. ’ ..d heardhim <re.ich that S- ' if.- # he re-sohed to choose* roteonlv s me n tes 1 i f-JIfr.V *■ k todeliver: Yet, he say^^U: 1 fhat^ :ie, more assistance in e , nthese points, and m’ re nj >ti n in his ownheart than ever he h d f end bef re;which made him afterwards never writeanv m-'re Setm$)5, excep ing only somenotes, fot the,bdp ol h;s memory.( 5 5bnov'T April 1626, he was sent for byX rd K-nmuir to Galkway, in referenceto a Gail t> the parish «f Anwoth; butsome hindrance c ming in the way, thisdesign was l*'d aside. In the harvefh•following, he hearkened to an ther Callto T« rphichen, but this proved also un-successiui.After this he went to the Earl of W<g-ton’s, where he stayed some time. Them >st part of this summer he travelledfr-rn place to place, acc rding as he gutinv'.ViU ns to preach, and especially atCommunions in Lanark, Irvine, Newnuills,Kinniel, St.c.#» * *He was also sometirneS invited to preachat the Shots : In that place, he says, he*used to find more liberty in preachingthan elsewhere ; yea, the only day in allhis life wherein he found nr st of the pre¬sence of God in preaching, he observes,was on a M nday after a C mmunn n,at the Kirk f Shots, June 21, 1630.—The night before he had been with someChristians., who spent the night in prayerand conference; on the morning therecame such a misgiving of spirit up n him,in c nsidering his own unworthinefs andweakness, and the expedition cf the per-(<}plft, tliat he was confultitig to hate stolenaway samewhere, and declined that day’s ]Work; but thinking he c^uld not s*» distrustG->d, he went to Sermon, where he g'-t re-natkable assistance in speaking abautont hour and a half from Ezskiel xxxvi. '25, 26. “ Then will I sprinkle clean waternptn y u, and ye shall be clean; fr«m allyour filthiness, Here he was led outin such a melting strain, that, by the d wn-psuring < f tne Spirit fr»m on high, a m stdiscernable change was wrcught upon ab ut500 af the hearers, whn C;»uld either datetheir fonversi* n cr s->me remarkable t >n-lirmation from that dav f>rward. Somelittle of that (lamp, b£ fays, remained •>«him the Thurfday after, when he preachedat Kilmarn-ck; hut on the Monday fal¬lowing, preaching, at Irvine, he was fodeferted, that when he had meditatedup«n, wr te, and k-tpt fully in memory,he could n t get pronounced; which f->difomraged him, that he was red Ived nott* preach f r f me time, at. leall in Irvine;but Mr. Dickf n w< uld n t fuller him tog fr^-m thence, till he preached the nextSabbath, which he did with iVme freed m.This fummer, being in Irvine, heletters from Vifc unt Clanniboy to cmeto Ireland, in reference to a call v Kil-Jinchir;r 7)* **tirwVift j and, feeing no tppearacce of ciTmtering int* the miniilry in Scotland, he «'w'ent thither, *nd g.>t an unanimous cal!fr*<m that parifh. Here he laboured withtthe utmoft afiiduity among that p# ple^who were b th rude and pr frne beforothat, *:ad they became the moll experi¬enced Chnlhans in th*t c untry. But hewas n t sb ve a year there until the BHhopof D un fufpended him and Mr. Blairfor uon-conf rmity They remained de-p led until May 1632, when, by th* in-terceffi n of L rd CaiUe-Scuart,. a warrantwas granted them from the king ts> bere IT red •After this he was married to the eldett.daughter rf Bartholomew Fleming, merch¬ant i»i Edinburgh, who was then in Ireland.In N v. 1635, he was again dep,<fed bythe BHhop ,-f D;wn; and a little after^br his rders, excommunicated by cneMr. Melvil, minilter »f D>wn. Thitiwinter, finding nw appearance of liberty,either to minillers or proftff rs, from t' e.bondage of the prelates, he, with othersof the dep fed minifters, t'« k a refolutionto go to New England. Up.m which theybuilt a Ihip for that purpofe ; and when pllthings were ready, they, ab ut the 9th cfi.September looled fr.m Lochfergus; hue.f a )violent {term arlfing, they were driven!rear the bank of Newfoundland, and were;ail in danger of being drowned ; and, after:prayer and confultatiun, they were obliged ti,i turn back to L chfergas. After this the flayed in Ireland, until he heard thathe and Mr. Blair were to be apprehended;and^hen they went out of the way, andcame • ver ta Scotland. When he cameto Irvine, Mr. Dickf m ciufed him preach,f r which he was called in q iefti n af er-wards. Leaving Irvine, he ppiffrd byL ud n and Lanerk to Edinburgh, wherehe continued fine time.Ab ut the beginning of March. .1638, (when the b>dv ‘^f the land n ac about to*renew the National C venant. he was lent Ip ft t > L nd n with fcveral c pies f theCovenant, and let'ers to friends at C urtof both nati ns. When he came there, !Mr. Borthwick delivered the letters f rhim ; but he had been there bm a fewdays when he had word Cent him fr m the'Mirquis f Httnilt'in, that he had • ver-heard the Ki g fay. He was c 'me. but he !fti uld put a pair f letters ab ut his feet.Whereup n, fearing he fti' iild be takenin the p ft-wav, he bought a Iv rfe, andcame home bv St. Alban’s snd the wefternway, and was prefent at'Lanerk and other( 9 )places, when the Covenant was read andsworn unto; and, excepting at the Kirkof Shots,;, already noticed, he, as himselfsays, never saw such mo'ions from theSpirit of God, all the people so generallyand willingly concurring, yea, thousandsof persons all at once'lifting up their hands,and the tears falling from their eyes; sothat, through the whole land, the people(a few Papists, and others who adhered tothe Prelates, excepted) universally enteredinto the Covenant of God, for the reforma¬tion of religion against Prelates and theirceremonies;After this, in the year 1638, he gota call both from Strsnrawer in Galloway,and Straiton in Garrick, hut he referredthe matter to Messrs. Blair, Dickson, Cant,Henderson, Rutherford and his father, who,having heard both parties, advised him toStranrawer; and he was received there bythe Presbytery upon the 5th of July 1638.Here he rent silted, in the faithful dischargeof the ministry, until harvest 1648, thathe was, by the sentence of the GeneralAssembly, transported to Ancrum in Te-viotdile. ' When he came to An rum, hefound the people very tra£Uble, but veryignorant, and some of them very loose intheir carriage ; and it was a long time be¬fore( 10 )fore any competent number of them werebrought to such a condition, that he couldadventure to celebrate the Lord’s Supper;but by his diligence, through the grace ofGod, some of them began to lay religionto heart.In the year 1649, the Pa-liament andChurch of Scotland had sent some Com¬missioners to treat w ith the King at theHague, in order to his admission; but theyreturned without satisfaction. Yet the. Parliament, in summer 1650 sent otherCommissioners to prosecute the foresaidtreaty at Breda; and the Commission o£the Kirk choSe xvir. Livingston Et Mr, Wood,and after that added ivlr. Hutcheson to thsm,With the Lords Ctssils and Brody, as rulingElders, that in name of the Church theyshould present and prosecute their desire:-.Mr. Livingston was very unwilling to go,and that for several reasons, the chief ofwhich was, he still suspe&ed the King tobe not right at heart in respect of the truePresbyterian religion, and notwithstanding,be saw that many in the kingdom wareready to receive the King home upon anyterms; but he was prevailed upon byMessrs. David Dickson, James Guthrimand Patrick Gillespie, to. go. After muchWnfereu** aud reasoning with the Kingat{ II )it Breda, they were not like to come toany conclusion. Here he observed, thatthe King still continued the use of theService-Book and his Chaplainsi and wasmany a night balling and dancing till nearday. This, witn many other things, madehim conclude there would be no blessingon that treaty. The treaty, to his un¬speakable g;ief, was at last concluded;and some time after, the King set sail forScotland: but,Mr. Livingston refused togo aboard with them; so that when Brodyand Mr. Hutcheson saw that they couldnot prevail with him to go on board, theydesired him, before parting, to go intothe ship, to speak of some matters in hand,which he did; and, in the meanwhile,the boat that should have waited his return^made straight for shore without him.After this, the King agreed with theCommissioners, to swear and subscribetise Covenant: and it was laid upon himto preach the next Sabbuh,' and tenderthe Covenants, both National and SolemnLeague, and tike his oath thereon ; Butbe, judging that such a rash and precipitateswearing of the Covenants would not befor the honour of the cause they wereembarked in did all he could to deter theK.ng and Commusioners from doing itcntil( 12 ) • Iuntil he came to Scotland. But whennoshing would dissuade the King from hisresolution, it was done; for the Kingperformed every thing that could have b=enreq dred of him. Upon which Mr. Living¬ston observed, that it seems to have beenthe guilt not only of Commissioners, but;of the whole kingdom, yea of the Cuurch.also, who knew the terms whereupon hawas to be admitted to his government, andyet without any evidence of a real changeupon his heart, and without forsaking;former principles, counsels and company,admitted him.After they landed in Scotland before hetook his leave of the King at Dundee, heused some freedom with him. After speak¬ing somewhat to him anenc his carnage,he advised him, that as he saw the Englisharmy approaching in a most victoriousmanner, he would divert the stroke bya declaradoR, or some such way, whereinhe needed rot weaken his right to the crownof England, and not. prosecute his title atpresent by fire and sword, until the flermblew over, and then perhaps they would bein a better case to be governed, See. Buthe did not relish this motion well, saying,he would not wish to sell his father’s blood;Which made Mr. Livingston conclude,->**Via** 4{hit either !.e was not called to meddlewith St-ttc-nratters, or else he should havelittle success.Another instance of this he gives usrin the year 1654, when he and Mr. PatrickGillespie and Mr. MinztiS were called upby the Protestor to Londn, where he pro¬posed to him, that he would ;»ke ofF theheavy Fines that were laid on several inScotland, which they were unable to pay.He seemed to like the motion, but whenhe proposed the Overture to the Council,they went not into the purpose.While sr T.ondon, preaching before thoProtedtir, he mentioned the King in prayer,w ereat some were preauiy incensed; butCromwcl knowing Mr. Livingstone’s in¬fluence in Scotland, said, “ Let him alone,“ he is a good man; and what are we,“ poor men, in comparison oi the Kingsof England ?’*The General Assembly appointed someministers, and him among me rest, to waitupon the army and the Committee of Estatesthat resided with them ; but the fear andapprehension of what ensued, kept him backfrom going, and he went home until he gotEfoe sad news of the defeat at Dumbar.—After( 14 )After ^'hich Croosrel wrote to him froai•Kdioburgh to come and speak 10 him; buthe excused himself.That winter the unhappy difference felt•ut anent tire Public Resolutions. His lightcarried him to join the Protestors againstResolutioners. And the Assembly thatfollowed thereafter, he was present at theirfirst meeting in the west at Kilmarnock,and several other meetings of the ProtestingBrethren afterwards ; bur not being satis¬fied with keeping these meetings so often,and 14 itinuing them so long, which heimagined made the breach wider, he de-dined them for some time.After this, he spent the rest of his timein the exercise of the ministry, both atAncrum and other places, until summer1660, that news was brought him that theKing was called home, and then he ciearlyforesaw iv.at the overturning of the wholework of reformation would ensue, snd at<i»l to all who would adhere to the same.But, in the rear 1662, when the Parlia¬ment and Council fcad, by proclamation,Ordered all Ministers, who had come insince *649, and had not kept the holy daycf the zj'.h ofl^Iay, cither to acknowledge( )c the Prelates or remove, he then -moredearly foresaw a storm approaching.At the last Communion which he hadat Auerum, in the month of Oftober, hesays, 'Chat after sermon on Monday, itpleased the Lord to open his month, in avery large discourse anent the grounds andencouragements to suffer for the presentcontroversy of the Kingdom of Christ, inappointing the Government of his House.1 hen he took his leave of that place, al¬though he knew nothing of what was soonto follow after.After he had, ^ ki;jahj eateR befora.3 great journey, having communicated ba*lore he entered upon suffering, he heard iaa little time, of the Couccirs “procedureagainst him and about twelve or shtteeaothers, who were to be brought before-them. He went presently to Kdinburgh,(before the summons could reach him)and lurked there some time, until he gotpertain information of the CounAl’s design,¥ leiher they were for their life, like aswas done with Mr. Guthrie, or cnir forbanishment, as was done with Mr. M‘Ward! an^ Mr. Simpson; but finding they intendedonly the last, he accordingly received te_i appear with his brethren,.Hef 16 )He.8ppj3red D c. 11 and was exarntnedbefore t;ie Go tncil , the sum of which cameto this, 'That they required him to subscribeor uke t e oath ot alifgi nee, which he,tipon several solid grounds ard reasons,refused; and sentence was pronounced,that in forty-eicht hours he should departEdinburgh, and go to the north side of ray,and within two months depart out of allthe King’s dominions. Accordingly hewent from Edinburgh to Leith, and there¬after, upon a petition in regard of his in¬firmity, he obtained liberty to stay thereuntil he should remove. He petitionedalso for a few d*' s to go home to see hiswife and children but wis refused ; as alsofor tin extract of his sentence, but couldnot obtain it.♦In the rear 1653 he went abosrd, sc-oompanied by several friends to the ship.They set sail, and in e g: t diys came toRotterdam, where he found the rest of thebanished Mb.islers there before him. Herehe got 'frequent occasion of pre. ching tothe Scot Congregation at Rotterdam: ant!in December following, his wife, with twoef his children, went over to him, and theother five were left in Scotland.( n )Here, upon a retrojrade view of h5s Iffe,'he (in the foressid historical account,)observes, that the Lord had given hima body not very strong, and yet not weak;for he could hardly remember himselfwearied in reading and studying, althoughhe had continued seven or eight hourswithout risirg; And also, that there wasbut two recreations that he was in dangerto be taken with; the first was hunting onhorfebTck, but this he had very little oc¬casion of, yet he found it very inticing;the other w as, singing in Concerts of Music,wherein 1 e had some skill, and in whichhe ’ook great delight. Me savs further,That he was alwavs short-sighted, andcould uor discern any person or thing afaroff but hitherto he had found no occasionor spectacles, and could read small prinjias long and with as little light almost aspny other. And as to his inclination, heiwas generally soft and amorous; averse(tp debates, rather given to laz ness thanjrashness, and too easy to be wrought upon.pCM, although he could not say what L-therMfi med of himself concerning covetousness,yet he could say, that he had been less troub-'!ed with covetc-sness and cares than manyPther evils, ancl rsther inclined to solitari¬ness than company, and was m- ch troubled•B?nh wandering of mind and idle thoughts;and/( iM .afid for outirird things, he was never rich(snd akhoagh, when in Killinchie, he h^dnot above four pounds Sterling of stifindga-jear) yet he was never in want.Tie further observes, That he could no'tremember any p*rticular time of conver-jsion, or that he was much cast down, oJlifted up; only one night, in the Dean o|Kilmarnock, having been most of the daybefore, in company with some people oStuarton, who ivere under rare ard'sacexercise of mind ; he lay down under someheaviness, that he never had such experience of; but, in the midst of his sleepthere came such a terror of the wrath oGotkupon him, that if it had but increaseta little higher, or continued but a fevminutes longer, he had been in a mosdreadful condition! bet it was instantlyremoved, and he thought it was said withirhis heart. See what a fool thou art, to desir«the thing thou couldst not endure.In his prerchir.g he was sometimes mv.cldeserted and cast down; and again, at othetimes, tolerably assisted: He himsrlf de¬clares. That, he never preached a sermon!excepting two, that he would be earnest u:see again in print; the first xvas at tinKirk of Shots (as was already noticed) arc{ *9 )the other at a Communion Monday atHoly«Qcd in IreUnc ; snd both there timeshe hid spent the night before in conferenceand pra/er with some Christians, withoutany more than ordinary preparation : Forotherwise, says he, h’s gift was rsther suitedto common people than to learned judicioustudUors.He bad a tolerable insight in the Hebrew,.Chaldee, and somewhat of the Syriac lang¬uages ; Arabic he did essay, but he soondropped 'it. He had asmucit of the brench,Italian, Dutch and Spanish, as enibled himto make use of their books and Bibles.It was thrice laid upon him by the Gene¬ral Assemble to -write the History of theChurch of Scotlmd since the Reformuti n1638 ; but this, for certain reasons, he htu[altogether omitted.The greater part of his lime in Holland:he spent in reducing the original text untoia Latm translation of the Bible; and forthat purpose compared Pagnin’s with theoriginal text and with the liter translations,such as Munster, die Tigurine. Junius, theJluglisb, but especially the Dutch, which hethought was the most socurate iraaslaiic*.X 20 ’)Whetlier fey constant sitting at tfees*Studies, or for seme other reasons, the in¬firmities of old »ge creeping on, he couldnot determine, but since the year 1664,there was such a continual pain cor.tra&eclin his bladder, that he could not walkabroad, and a skakmg of his hands, thathe could scarcely wrte any ; otherwise, heblessed the Lord that hitherto he had foundno great defection either of body or mind.Thus he continued at Rotterdam untilAugust 9th. 1672. when he died.Some of his last words were. “ Carry my“ commendation to heaven to Jesus Chriii,.“ till 1 come there myself.” After 3 pause,he added, ” I die in the faith, that the truths“ of God, which he hath helped the Church“ of Scotland to own, shall be owned by.“ him as truths so long as sun and moon“ endure; and that Independency, though“there be good men and well-meaning“ professors of that way, will be found“ more to the prejudice of the work of God'“ than many are aware of for they evanish“ into vain opinions. I have hsd my own“ faults, as well as other men. but he made“ me alwars abhor shews. I have, I know,“ given offence to many, through my slack-“ aess and negligesce, but I forg’ve. ?nd“ iksirfi. 11 ' . ■ I -1 desire to be forgiven.” After a pause,he was not able to sp.-ak much at aime, he said, 1 would not have peopleto forecast the worst, but there is a da'k■ cloud above the reformed churches wdiichprogn. sticates a storm c nijng.p His■ile, (earing what shortly f-.H wed, desiredim t" take leave of his friends : “ I darer* t,” replied he, with an affecti natemdtrness, “ but it is !,ke ^ur parting willonly be f r a sh rt time.” And thene slept in the Lord.Alth ugh it is usual with the m st of men,u.en writing their own memoirs, throughl-'desty, to c nctal their parts, qualifict-ons. and other abilities, yet here theselings cann. t beh d; f r it is pretty evidtn t,lat since our Reformat! n commenced inGotland, there has been ri ne wh> se laboursi the g spd have been m re remarkablylessed with the d< wr-pfubng f the Spiriti conversi n-work, tnan IVIr. Livingst n’sere ; yea, it is a questi n, if anv one,jncs the primitive times, can pr duce soany c nvinctng and confirming seals <f[sir ministry; as witness the Kbk f Slmts,id H lywoi d in Ireland, at which twoa es, it is raid, t! at rR ut 1500 sr ulsicre either c-nfunied ar c everted andi'uught to Christ.HisHiB works, besides his Letter fr^m Lei^*1563, to his parishi oners at Ancrutn, arefits Memorable Characteristics of Divin<Providence, tfc. and a Manuscript of hi;awn Life, ftf *hich this is an abbreviate.—He also (while in his Patmos of H Handwr< te ft new Latin translation of the OhTestament, which was revised and approver&fby V 0i s, EflTenius, Ntthnecs, Leusdej*tnd ether eminent lights of that- timebefore hit de*ih, it was pat int» the hand;sT the last to be printed.Jt/r. Livingston’s Affttfin) ofTHE'GREAT WORKAt tbe Kiak Shots.THE only day in all my life, where isI f-und m. st *f the presence frf G «in preaching, was on a Monday after thtC-mmuni-a, preaching in ’he Church-yarjof Sh-ts. Jonu si 1630. Tht ntjfht bef n1 had been in company with sotrseCoristianswh* spent the night in prayer and c cferenc« When I was al -oe in the fields;ab..ut eight > r sine f’c* ck in the morningbefore we were g« t: Pertnun> there cam;( 23 )I’iilj a misgiving f spirit epa me, eaa-rideriog my unvrorthiacss and vretkneM).«? apeik bef re so many apd and worthyninisrers, and so many eminent and expt^fenced C ristians, that I waa Oirnsnltirgv th myself to have st- ien away, and wa?ictaaily g-no away to s .-me distance ; burirhen jaft ab^ut t-i lose sight if the Kirk -Tts, tfeese words, IFnx / rver afcrren-biidcrncst er a land if darkness * vft'Cir cght into my heart with such an uver-f m’*n? power, as c nstrained me tc think ittty duty to return and comply with the c*‘lt* preach ; which t acc rdingl-. did, with;cud assistance, fVur at)><ut an h ur and; half. . n the punts I h*d meditited fromhat text. Keek xxxvi 25, 26. “ d’hen wilt‘ I sprinkle clean *»ater up»n ynu. and ye-‘ ahali he clean. Fr m a1! ymir filthiness,1 and front all y«ur idols will I clesnre vmi.8 A nt:\v heart also will I give y^u, and1 a sew spirit will I put within you ; acd1 I will take awa-v the st ny heart out of‘ y<»ur flcs'o. and I will r:'v«; v^u an ■ ear"1 0} flesh ’* As 1 was ab«or t<* c i .’Se,1 heavwsh w-r coming f'-'dcicrly n, madehe people hastily t^h* c* their cl-kes andrmtles, I beg>r ^ epe*k to thr f u wingpirpse* “ ^ af ram fr. mthe cloud' s< 01P ses y»u, >,rtVf^mp^cd w«uid yvu b*, hvw ftt{2 «,/ h orrorad* • ,( 24 )and despair, if G d fii- uld deal with themas they defer\ ed ; ar,d thus he will deni ^with ail the nnaliy impenitent. That dmight juftly rain fire and bri.mftone up‘ Tlthent, ss up-n S d m ^rd Gom; rr^h, andthe ether cities nf the plain. That theS^n • f G d, by tabernacling in < ur naturtyand obeying and fuficring in it, is the ••nlyrefuge and o vert fn m the (b rui < f divinewrath due to us f r ftn That his meritsand mediation are the ai ne Ikreen fr mthat ftorm ; and n ne but penitent believersfliali have tne benefit if that fhelter.In these, or s- me exprtfli ns to thispurp se, and many ethers, he was led cnf r ab ut an h> ur’s time (after he had d newith what he had premrdilated) in a firamof exhortation and warning with great,enlargement and melting • f heart ; whichwas foil wed with such p wer, that it wagth'ughr five hundred pers >ns could date'their c aversion fr^m tnat Sermon.FINIS.SAW**.—Printed by 7”. ,T0Kff"