CHEAP TRACTS No. 7,(Second Edition.)     - - "T ^ ^ 1A PICTURE OF WAR;BEING AN ACCOUNT OPTHE►StoriiiiRg* of BatlajoKAND THE .Mtissiaii CaiupaigTi.BUT WISE ME.V SATT, ANH SURE ’T1S TRUE,THAT WAR IS THEFT, AND MURDER TOO.DUNFERMLINE :PRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER.—1828,“ War’s a game, which, were their Subjects wise.King’s would not play at* There is no subject on which the commonsense of mankind has gone farther wrong thanthat of war : This demon of discord, whileit bewilders with its glare, subjects to thegreatest privations, not only those engaged init, but all who are not far removed from itsinfluence. While mankind are by naturebrethren, mutually dependant on one another(in whatever quarter of the globe they mayreside), for the supply of the necessaries andcomforts of life, War destroys the connection—makes those enemies who should be friends,and entails misery and want where comfortand plenty would otherwise be found. Neitheris there any thing in which principle is more$grossly perverted. The nations of Europeare professedly Christian •, but in Europe| war has raged until it has lost its energies,I and it is still cultivated as a science, and fol-I lowed as a profession, although its principlesi and its practices are as much opposed to chris-: tianity as light is to darkness ; and there ismuch truth in the assertion, that “ wereChristian nations, nations of chvistians, all warwould be impossible, and unknown amongthem.” Let those who may doubt this assertion,read attentively the Sermon of Jesus Christupon the Mount, Matthew v. vi- and vii.| and let them say, if War is in any way coun-i; tenanced there.To correct, however, the ideas of those in-. to whose hands this may fall, who thinkotherwise, a few mournful Pictures are sub-i joined, which have been exhibited to the worldi during some of the recent campaigns ; andthat they may not be objected to as the(ideal representations of an over-sanguinephilanthropy, are delineated in the words|of the writers, who were themselves eye¬witnesses of, or actors in, the scenes theyiso affcctingly describe ; and these we shallintroduce with the following Picture ofW ar, and its eft'ects, drawn by a modern divine.At the final issue of an obstinate contest,(here must necessarily he many lives Lost onboth sides ; destruction has then done herworst, and selected the objects of her fury ;ihe grave that tells no tales, silently receives4her myriad’s of murdered souls; and un¬grateful Ambition, forgetting the blood bywhich victory was purchased, dwells only withrapture on the glory of her conquests ! Oh !that the great ones of the earth were but alittle more inclined to the reflection ! whatconquest was ever worth the useful lives lostto accomplish it ? what battle was ever foughtthat did not hurry thousands of trembling andunprepared souls into the presence of theiroffended Redeemer ?O God! when thou makestinquisition for bloodupon whom wilt thou lay the guilt of thosetorrents of blood, that have been shed for noearthly purpose whatever, but to gi atify the de¬testable and insolent ambition of a few poor punycreatures like ourselves.At the conclusion of a spirited and long con¬tested war, there is scarcely a cottage to be metwith that does not bear visible marks of its fruits.In one miserable hut you may behold, seated attheir scanty meal, a mother and her tribe ofhalf-starved children ; but father you will findnone ; death met him in the field of battle, andin a moment, made his children fatherless, andhis wife a widow.Here yon view an aged couple, bent double'with infirmities and years, and God knows!.but little capable to sustain a protracted iourney,through the winter of life, yet hoping still to see|better days, when the war is ended, and their ichildren returned. Time, that at length bringajall things to bear, finishes the war $ but timesdoes not bring back their cluldren.5[ To the artificial advantages of war, I opposewith confidence, the real losses of mankind : ToI the pomp and splendour of martial heroism, l* oppose the orphan’s tear, and the widow’s cry :And to the vain and idle boast of the victor, thei sad and untimely fate of the vanquished. Whenthe glories of a battle are the theme of conversa-Stion, how seldom are those remembered whofought and fell in it! Twenty thousand of whatare called common soldiers, might perish, andno one concent himself to enquire how they died,j or where they were huried ; but let inhumanand insolent pride be told, that every ©ne ofI those poor men, who thus fell neglected and1 forgotten, were as true to their king, as faithful| to their country, had dispositions ah good, andif hearts as brave and honest, and souls as dear,i as the greatest and noblest warrior among them.' How often.are the common soldiers doomed to“ beg bitter bread,” while too many whcT areconversant only in the knaveries of war, andwho without virtue, labour, or hazard, are grow¬ing rich, as their country is impoverishing, findtheir infamies at length rewarded, by equipages“ that shine like meteors, and palaces that riselike exhalations.In short, war is altogether a system of follyand devastation, of knavery and ingratitude,where the chief actors are the greatest losers,the most inoffensive the greatest sufferers.—Where the least entitled grow rich upon thespoil of those who serve them, and where themost deserving are repaid with poverty anddisgrace.Nay more, where men at the instigation of;those who glory in their destruction, “act apart:contrary to human nature, the dictates of soundreason, and to the very spirit of Christianity.”THE STORMING OF BADAJOZ.Camp before Badajoz, 5th April, 1812.1 • 'MY DEAR FRIEND.“ We expect to storm Badajoz to-night in threeseparate places, so I shall soon see real service ;aad it is expected t'o be very sharp work unlessthey surrender, which is not likely, as GeneralPhilippon is a very determined fellow. TheFrench seem, however, to be short of powderand shot ; or perhaps they are reserving it forus to-night. They fire a shell or bomb aboutevery two minutes, while we keep up a constantfire upon the breaches and upon the town.V f Alvaon, 15th April.“ I now proceed to give you as account ofthe .storming of Badajoz.“ At eight o’clock at night, on Monday the 5thof April, we were formed without knapsacks,and in half an hour marched in an indirect linetowards the town, under strict orders, “ thatnot a whisper should be heard !” Part of the7• 5th division were to attack the town on the southside, while the third division, to which I wasattached, with their ladders were to scale theji citadel, and the rest were to assault the grandI breach. “ I procured a soldier’s jacket, a 'fire-)| lock, sixty round of ball-cartridges, and was oh1 the right of my company.“ But, before I proceed, I will give you someinformation which I have since obtained, to shewyou where, and to what, we were going ! Thegovernor is allowed to be one of the best engi-i neers in the French service, and he has so provedI himself; though our fire was continued at theI breach, he had pieces of wood fastened into theI ground, the sword blades and bayonets fixed toI them, slanting outwards*, behind this a chevauxl| de frieze was chained at both ends across theI breach ; the beam of it about a foot square, with| points on all sides projecting about a yard fromi the centre, and behind that was a trench fourfeet wide and four deep. Covering all these,! soldiers were planted eight deep, the two firstranks to fire as fast as they could, and thosebehind to load for them. Thus prepared, hetold the men, “ if they stuck to their posts, allthe troops in the world could not enter.”Trenches were also dug about fifty yards roundthe breach in case we did get in ! In short theofficers say that no place has been defended withso much science and resolution in oar times.“ On the march all was silent, except that ourcannon kept ap their fire at the breaches, till wegot within a quarter of a mile of the town, when8tli^ro \reve two or three fire-ball^ thrown fromit in different directions, one of them falling closeto us, silently whispered to each other, “Nowit WILL begin !” As the first of our troopsapproached the place, the whole town appearedas if it were one mine, every yard throwing outbombs, cannon-balls, &c. &c., grape-shot andmusket balls flying also in every direction. Onthe fire-balls striking near us, we moved out ofthe road to the greensward, but cannon-ballshissed by us along the grass, and the musquet-balls flew like hail about our heads ; we imme¬diately began, therefore, to run forward, till wewere within about a hundred yards of the bridgeacross the first ditch, and then the balls came sothick that, as near as I can judge, twenty musthave passed in the space of a minute, within ayard of my head.“ While we were running on the grass, oneor two men dropped every minute, and were leftbehind ; but now they fell faster. When wecame to the bridge which was about two yardswide, and twelve long, the balls came so thickthat I had no expectation of getting across alive.Vv e then began to ascend the hill, and were asci owded as people in a fair. We had to creepupon our hands and knees, the ascent being sosteep and rocky; and while creeping my brother-officer received a hall in the brain, and fell dead!Having got up this rock, we came to somepalisadoes, within about twenty yards of a wall;these we broke down, hut behind them was aditch three feet deep, and just behind that a flat9Ispace about six yards broad, and then a hill(thrown up eight feet high. These passed, weapproached a second ditch, and then the wall,iwhich was twenty.six feet high, against which*\ve planted six or seven ladders.1“ The hill is much like that at Greenwich,about as steep and as high. Just as I passedthe palisadoed ditch, there came a discharge ofgrape shot from a twenty-four pounder, directlyinto that flat-space, and about twelve fine fellowssunk upon the ground, uttering a groan thati shook the oldest soldier to the soul. Ten of themnever rose again, and the nearest of them wasi within a foot of me, and the farthest not fouryards distant. It swept away all within itsrange, 'i he next three or four steps I took,was upon this heap of tlead ! You read of thehorrors of war, yet little understand what theymean!“ When I got over this hill into the ditch,under the wall, the dead and wounded lay soI thick that I was continually treading upon them.A momentary pause took place about the timewe reached the ladder, occasioned I apprehendby the grape-shot, and by the numbers killedfrom off the ladders ;■—but all were soon up, andformed again in the road just over the wall.We now cheered four or five times !' Whenwe had entered the citadel, which was directlyafter we had scaled the wall, no shot cameamongst us ; the batteries there had been silen-! ced before we were over, and we formed opposite!the two gateways, with orders to “ let no forcebreak through us.” I was in the front rank !10*' As sooh as Philippon heard that we werein the citadel, he ordered two thousand men “ toretake it at all events but, when he was toldthat the whole of the third division had got in,‘ 1 hen,’ said he, give up the town/“ One battery lired about two hours after wewere in, but those near the breach were quietin half an hour, part of the fifth division whichgot in on the south having silenced them. Theattack on the breach failed; it was renewed asecond time; and again a third time, with equalbad fortune, which made Lord Wellingtonsay, ‘ the third division has saved my honourand gained the town.“ We continued under arms all night. Aboutfifty prisoners were made in the citadel. Philip-'pon withdrew into Fort St. Christoval, andmost part of the cavalry escaped by the SallyPort. By the laws of war we were allowedto kill all we found, and our soldiers declaredthey would do so ; but an Englishman cannotkill in cold blood !“ Our regiment did not fire a gun the wholetime. I saw one instance of bravery on thepart of the French, just before the grape shotcame; eight or ten Frenchmen were standingon the battery, No. 82, one of our regimentfired and killed one or two of them, but the reststood like statues j they kept on firing till therewas but two left, when, one of them being shot,the other jumped down.“ The town is about the size of Northampton;all the houses near the breach were completelybattered down, and most of the others damaged,11| “ la the morning I returned to the camp,land by day light retraced niy steps of the night(before. In every place I passed a great manywounded ; I saw eight or ten shot through tlie(face, and their heads a mass of clotted blood,many with limbs shattered, many shot throughthe body, and groaning most piteously! I fou'fidthe body of my brother officer on the liillj^tiil!pantaloons, sword, epaulet, and hat, taken'(away ; the dead lay stretched out in every form,,some had been dashed to pieces by bombs, many;had been stripped naked, and others had beenrolled in the dust, with blood and dirt stickingall over them !“ When I came to the spot where the grape-ishot first struck us, the bodies lay very thick !but even there they bore no comparison to theheaps in the breach, where they lay one upon: another two or three deep, and many in the; ditch were half out and half in the water.“ I shall now give you my feelings through thei whole aflair, and I have no doubt when you readthis you will feel similarly. I marched towardsthe town in good spiiits ; and, when the ballsbegan to come thick about me, I expected everyone would strike me : as they increased I re¬garded them less ; at the bottom of the hill 1was quite inured to danger ; and could havemarched to the cannon’s mouth. When thegrape-shot came, I suft’ered more for those \vh<)fell than for myself; and, when I first trodeupon the dead heaps, it was horrible ! In thenext twenty or thirty steps I trode upon many12more dead, but each impression became lessterrible! 2“ You see that I have literally been withina few inches of death,—upon the very verge ofeternity! With you, when two or three ofyour acquaintance die, you say, ‘ These are aw¬ful fitnes, death has been very busy !’ Here hewas busy indeed !! Of three officers with whomI dined that day, one was killed and anotherseverely wounded, yet not a hair of my headhas been hurt! I am indeed in better healththan ever I was in my life.THE RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN.A few extracts from a Circumstantial narrative of theCampaign in Russia, by Eugenb Labaume, cap¬tain of the Royal Geographical Engineers, andattached to the fourth corps of the French army,commanded by Eugene Beauharnois, in that ill-fated and destructive enterprise.A Pictuue of Smolensko after beingStormed.“ In every direction we marched over scat¬tered ruins and dead bodies. Palaces, stillburning, offered to our sight only walls halfdestroyed by the flames, and, thick among thefragments, were the blackened carcases of thewretched inhabitants whom the fire had con¬sumed. The few houses that remained were13completely filled by the soldiery, while at thedoor stood the miserable proprietor without anjassylum, deploring the death of his children, andIthe loss of his fortune. The churches aloneafforded some consolation to the unhappy victimsi who had no other shelter. 1 he cathedral, cele¬brated through Europe, and held in great vcne-iration by the Russians, became the refuge ofthe unfortunate beings who had escaped theflames. In this church, and round its altar,were seen whole families extended on the ground.On one side was an old man just expiring, andicasting a last look on the image of the saintiwhom he had all his life invoked ; on the otherwas an infant, whose feeble cries the mother,worn down with grief, was endeavouring tohush, and while she presented it with the breast,iher tears dropped fast upon it.“ In the midst of this desolation, the passagebf the army into the interior of the town, formedi striking contrast. On one side was seen thei abject submission of the conquered—on the other(the pride attendant upon victory : the former hadlost their all—the latter, rich with spoil, and(ignorant of defeat, inarched proudly on to the(Bound of warlike music, inspiring the unhappy(remains of a vanquished population with mingled(fear and admiration.The Night before the Battle.“ Although worn out with fatigue, we feltIjfelt not the want of sleep, there were manyfiamong us, so enamoured of glory,.and so flushedHwith the hope of the morrow’s success, that theywere absolutely incapable of repose. As theypassed the wakeful hours, and the silence anddarkness of midnight stole upon them, while thetires of the sleeping soldiers, now almost extinct,threw their last rays of light over the heaps ofarms piled around, they gave themselves up toprofound meditation. They reflected on thewonderful events of our strange expedition :they mused on the result of a battle which wasto decide the fate of two powerful empires : theycompared the silence of the night with the tu¬mult of the morrow: they fancied that Deathvvas now hovering over their crowded ranks,but thi darkness of the night prevented themfrom distinguishing who would be the unhappyvictims : They then thought of their parents—their country—and the uncertainty whether theyshould ever see these beloved objects again, plun¬ged them into the deepest melancholy. Butsuddenly, before daybreak, the beat of the drumwas heard, the officers cried to arms, the meneagerly rushed to their different stations, and all,in order for battle, awaited the signal for action.The colonels placing themselves in the centre oftheir regiments, ordered the trumpet to sound,and every captain, surrounded by his company,read aloud the following proclamation :—“ Soldiers—This is the battle so much de¬sired by you ! The victory depends on your¬selves. Its is now necessary to us. It willgive us abundance, good winter quarters, and aprompt return to our country! Behave as at Aus-15jterlitz, at Friedland, at Witespsk, at Sniolensko,•—^and let the latest posterity recount with pride,iyour conduct on this day ; let them say of you ‘ tie was at the great battle under the w alls■of Moscow S’The Taking of a Redoubt.‘The Viceroy and his Staff, in spite of theenemy’s tremendous fire remained at the head ofBegussier’s division, followed by the 13th and100th regiments. They advanced on the redoubt,and, entering it by the breast-work, massacredon their pieces, the cannoneers that served them.Prince Kutusofe, who had witnessed this: attack, immediately ordered the cuirassiers ofbf the guard to advance and endeavour to retakeposition. These were the best of their cavalry.I The shock between their cuirassiers and ourst was therefore terrible; and one may judge of: the fury with which both parties fought, wheni che enemy, in quitting the field, left it complete-y covered with dead.1 “ The interior of the redonbt presented a hor-id picture. The dead were heaped on onemother. The feeble cries of the wounded werescarcely heard amid the surrounding tumult.Arms of every description were scattered overhe field of battle. The parapets, half demolishedpad their embrasures entirely destroyed. Theirlaces were distinguished only by the cannon, thegreatest part of which were dismounted andeparated from the broken carriages.In the midst of this scene of carnage, 1 dis¬covered the body of a Russian cannoneer, de- jcorated with three crosses. In the one hand hehehl a broken sword, and with the other firmlygrasped the carriage of the gun at which hehad so valiantly fought.Retreat of the Wounded.“ The most horrid spectacle (continues our 1author) was, the interior of the ravines, wherealmost all the wounded, who were able to dragthemselves along, had taken refuge to avoid ,further injury. These miserable creatures,heaped one upon another, and swimming intheir blood, uttered the most heart-rendinggroans. They frequently invoked death withpiercing cries, and eagerly besought us to put anend to their agonies. i   . . LMOSCOW AT A DISTANCE.“ While the fourth corps was constructing abridge across the Moskwa, the staff, about twoo’clock, established itself on a lofty hill, whencewe perceived a thousand elegant and gildedsteeples, which, glittering in the rays of the sun,appeared at the distance like so many flamingglobes. One of these globes, placed on thesummit of a pillar, or an obelisk, had the exactappearance of a balloon, suspended in the air.Transported with delight at this beautiful spec¬tacle, which was the more gratifying, from theifi17i remembrance of the melancholy objects whichi we had hitherto seen, we could not suppress ourjoy; but, with one spontaneous movement, wei all exclaimed, Moscow ! Moscow ! At thesound of this wished for name, the soldiers ranJ up the hill in crowds, and each discovered newi wonders every instant. One admired a noblechateau on our left, the elegant architectureof which, displayed more than eastern magnifi-:cence ; another directed his attention towards apalace or a temple ; but all were struck withIthe superb picture which this immense town af¬forded. The walls, variously painted, the'domes covered with lead or slates, or glitteringiwith gold, offered the most pleasing variety ;whilst tile terraces before the palaces, the obelisks'Over the gates, and, above all the steeples—really presented to our eyes one of those cele¬brated cities of Asia, which we had thoughtihad only existed in the creative imagination of[the Arabian poets.The Conflagration of Moscow.“ No cry, no tumult was heard in this scenebf horror. Every one found abundantly suf-icient to satisfy his thirst for plunder. Noth¬ing was heard but the crackling of flames, and;he noise of the doors that were broken open—ind occasionally a dreadful crash eaused by the,ailing in of some vault. Cottons, muslins, andn short all the most costly productions ofEurope and of Asia were a prey to the flames.ISThe cellars were filled with sugar, oil, andvitriol: these burning1 all at once in the snb-terraneous warehouses, sent forth torrents offlames through thick iron grates, and presenteda striking image of the mouth of hell. It wasa spectacle both terrible and affecting. Eventhe most hardened minds were struck with aconviction that so great a calamity would oni‘. some future day call forth the vengeance of theAlmighty upon the authors of such crimes.“ The hospitals too, which contained SO,000!wounded Russians, now began to burn. 1 hiscjffered a harrowing and dreadful spectacle.Almost all these miserable creatures perished.A few who still lingered, were seen crawling,half burnt, among the smoking ruins ; andothers, groaning under heaps of dead bodies, en¬deavoured in vain to extricate themselves fromthe horrible destruction which surrounded them.“ In the morning, about the dawn of day, Iwitnessed the naost dreadful and the most affec¬ting scenes which it is possible to conceivenamely, the unhappy inhabitants drawing uponsome vehicles all that they had been able to save!from the conflagration. The soldiers, having;robbed them of their horses, the men and wo¬men were slowly and painfully dragging along,these little carts, some of them contained an in¬firm mother, others a paralytic old man, andlothers the miserable wrecks of half-consumed!furniture ; children, half naked, followed these;interesting groups. Affliction, to which theirage is commonly a stranger, was impressed even*19on their features ; and when the soldiers ap¬proached them, they ran crying into the armsof their mothers.”The Retreat.• ‘ The soldiers, vainly struggling with thesnow and the wind w’hich rushed upon them withthe violence of a whirlwind, could no longerdistinguish the road, and, falling into the ditcheswhich bordered it, there fouud a grave. Otherspressed on towards the end of their journey,scarcely able to drag themselves along, badlymounted, badly clothed, with nothing to eat,nothing to drink, shivering with cold, andgroaning with pain. Becoming selfish throughdespair, they afforded neither succour, nor evenone glance of pity to those who, exhausted byfatigue and disease, expired around them.How many unfortunate beings, on that dreadfulday, dying of cold and famine, struggled hardwith the agonies of death ! We heard some ofthem faintly bidding their last adieu to theirfriends and comrades. Others, as they drewtheir last breath, pronounced the name of theirmother, their wives, their native country, w'hichthey were never more to see. The rigour ofthe frost soon seized on their benumbed limbs,nd penetrated through the whole frame. Stretch¬ed on the road, we could distinguish only theheaps of snow which covered them, and which,at almost every step, formed little indulationsike so many graves. At the same time, vast20flights of ravens, abandoning the plain to takerefuge in the neighbouring forests, croakedmournfully as they passed over our heads ; andtroops of dogs, which had followed us fromMoscow, and lived solely on our mangled re¬mains, howled around us, as if they wouldhasten the period 'when we were to becometheir prey.“ From that day the army lost its courageand its military attitude. The soldier no longerobeyed his officer. The officer separated him¬self from his general. The regiments, disbandedmarched in disorder. Searching for food, theyspread themselves over the plain, burning andpillaging whatever fell in their way. Thehorses fell by thousands. The cannon and thewaggons which had been abandoned served onlyto obstruct the way. No sooner had thesoldiers separated [from the ranks, than theywere assailed by a population eager to avengethe horrors of which it had been the victim.The Cossacks came to the succour of thepeasants, and drove back to the great road,already filled with the dying and the dead,those of the followers who escaped from thecarnage made among them.The Retreat continued.“ Marching from Smolensko, a spectacle themost horrible was presented to our view. Fromthat point till we arrived at a wretched ruinedhamlet, at the distance of about three leagues,the road, was entirely covered with cannon andi ammunition-waggons, which they had scarcei time to spike or to blow up. Horses in theii agonies of death were seen at every step ; andsometimes whole teams, sinking under theirlabours, fell together. All the defiles which thecarriages could not pass, were filled with mus¬kets, helmets, and breast-plates. Trunksbroken open, portmanteaus torn to pieces, and(garments of every kind were scattered over thevalley. At every little distance, we met withtrees, at the foot of which the soldiers had at¬tempted to light a fire, hut the poor wretcheshad perished ere they could accomplish theirobject. We saw them stretched by dozensaround the green branches which they had vain¬ly endeavoured to kindle ; and so numerouswere the bodies, that they would have obstructedthe road, had not the soldiers been often employ¬ed in throw ing them into the ditches and the ruts.“ We can scarcely imagine a picture moredeplorable than the bivouac of the staff. Twenty-one officers, confounded watb as many servants,had crept together round a little fire, under anexecrable cart-house scarcely Covered. Behindthem were the horses ranged in a circle, thatthey might be some defence against the violenceof the wind, which blew with fury. The smokewas so thick that we could scarcely see thefigures of those who were close to the fire, andwho were employed in blowing the coals onwhich they cooked their food. The rest,wrapped in their pelisses or their cloaks, layone upon another, as some protection from thecold : nor did they stir, except to abuse thosewho trod upon them as they passed, or to railat the horses, which kicked whenever a sparkfell on their coats.”The Result of the Campaign.These may be considered as imperfect sketches,many of them hastily drawn, of horrificscenes, which distinguished a campaign, thatended in the return of a few miserable strag¬glers out of 400,000 warriors, who, we aretold, had crossed the Niemen but a few monthsbefore; elated, it is probable, with the hopes ofsuccess, and buoyed up in the delusive expect.'v-tion of soon returning, crowned with the spoilsof the vanquished ; for, we are informed thatit was by the light of the flames of Moscow thatthe author penned the account of its conflagra¬tion ;—and it appears, that he had to pursue hismelancholy task of recording passing events,generally at night, beside a wretched fire, al¬most benumbed with cold, and surrounded withhis dead and dying companions !And can SUOH scenes, to a repetition ofwhich, the opening of a campaign so naturallyleads, be contemplated with pleasure ? Notsurely by men possessing the smallest portionof the milk of human kindness. These can bebeheld with complacency and delight only bydemons, strangers at once to the softer feelingsof humanity, and those exalted conceptions of23superior intelligences, by which, the multitudeof the heavenly host were taught to sing, at the[appearance of Him, whose life and doc¬trines WERE SO EMINENTLY CALCULATEDTO GIVE PEACE TO THE NATIONS I “ Glory|to God in the highest, and on earth peace,'good will toward men.”.|| .s ' >H» : *Battle of Malplaquet.In this celebrated battle, so glorious to theBritish arms, the Prince of Orange was the mostdaring of all the commanders engaged in thedreadful conflict. He led on the first nine bat¬talions under a tremendous shower of grape andmusketry. He had scarcely advanced a few[paces, w hen the brave Oxenstiern was killed bylitis side, and several aides-de-camp and attendantsjiuceessively dropped as he advanced. His owni torse being killed, he rushed forvrard on foot ;land as he passed the opening of the great flank-jang battery, whole ranks were swept away ; yetI le reached the entrenchment, aud waving his hat,It an instant the breast work was forced at theoint of the bayonet by the Dutch G uards andlighlanders. But before they could deploy,tey were driven from the post by an impetuous(targe frcm the troops of the French l»ft, which!td been rallied by Marshal Boufflers. At thisloment the corps under Dohna moved gallantlygainst the battery on the road, penetrated into24the embrasures, and took some colours ; but erethey reached the front of the breast-vijork, weremowed down by the battery on the flank. Adreadful carnage took place among all the troops |in this concerted attack : Spaar lay dead uponthe field ; Hamilton was carried off wounded ;and the lines, beginning to waver, recoiled afew paces. Calling up fresh spirit to recoverfrom this repulse, the heroic Prince of Orangemounted another horse, that was also shot un¬der him ; still his energy remained unshaken :on foot he rallied the nearest troops, and seizinga standard from the regiment of Mey, marche Ialmost alone to the entrenchment. He plantedthe colours upon the bank, and called aloud,“ Follow me my friends, here is your post !”His gallant troops followed their leader. Againthe onset was renewed, but it was no longerpossible to force the enemy; for the second linehad closed up, and the whole breast-work bris¬tled with bayonets, and blazed with fire.Although again repulsed, the Prince of Orangewould not be dissuaded from returning oncemore to the charge ; and at length actually car¬ried the seemingly impregnable entrenchment.< , • F I N I S,% . lUm