THE1.SAINT S’ DUTYI NI EVIL TIMES:IN TWOSERMONSPleached from Ifa. xxvi. 20.!By Mr. Jam es Renwick, Minifler of theCofpel, who fullered in the Grafs Marketof Edinburgh, upon the 17th day of Fe¬bruary, 1688.1 ^Prov. xviii. 10. ’The name of the Lord is a Jlrongto-wer: the righteous runneth into it, and are faff.Pfal. xlvi. 1. God is our refuge and Jlrength, avery prefent help in trouble.*$•-^•4*bfcOTLAK.G L A S G OPrinted and fold by J. & M. ROBERTSON.MDCCLXXXVII.( 2 ).•f-4- -*—'-* -W- -r—f "H+* V-f -f-f- H—^ 4-4- -•»—♦ -f-4- 4-4- 4—t*THESAINT S’ DUTY, &c.iIfaiah xxvi. ao. Come, my people, enter thou intei,thy chambers, and font fhy doors about thee: hidtthyfelf, as it were, for a little moment, until thtindignation be ovcr-pajl.THE bowels of the Lord’s fympathy towardfhis people, are always burfling out, and h^dow not fee them forfaking their own mercy, andflraying from him; but is much taken up in la.menting over their folly, and with giving theramany a moving -and fweet invitation to come tchim, where their happinefs lyes, and lays himfellopen to them, and the riches that are with him,with his arms fpread abroad, inviting them by hi)precic- is and hearty promifes, feeking nothing o:folk, but only, That they would “ come and receivifreely, Ifa. Iv, i. Ho, every one that thirtieth,come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money,; [come ye, buy and eat, yea come, buy wine an#milk without money, and without price.” He openup precious and rich ware, and fays to his buyerand merchants, the commodity is good, come a j;way, we (hall not call out about the price; if y Ihave hearts to receive, I have a heart to give!Come away then, hearty good fellows, we will nelver (land upon it; for ’tis not with him as with thimen of the world, for thev count them the betgood-fellows, who give n jft and freelieft; but h 'couhj tI^TheSj'u:! s^Duty in Evil^l tmcs.counts them the heft good-fellows, who will takemioft and freelieftj and he debars none from him,• ibut difcovers his riches, and invites all, Rev. xxii.'ll 6, 17. “I am the root and offspring'of David,and the bright and morning-flar. And the Spiritand the bride fay come, and let him that heareth,fay, come, and let him that is a-thir(l come. Andwhofoever will, let him take of the water of lifefreely.” And if this, and fuch fweet invitations,will not prevail, he makes taws to whip his own, toihimfelf: terrors within, and judgments without iand he never lays on a blow, but he is ftill provok¬ed to it, and when he lays1 it on, the tears are inhis eyes, becaufe he muff do it, Lam. iii. 33. “ Forhe doth not afflift willingly, nor grieve the childrenof men,” yea, when his own turn their backs uponhim, he lets them not alone, but is dill calling themback again, Zech. i. 3. “Turn ye unto me, faiththe Lord of hods, and I will turn unto you, faithrthe Lord of hods.” And alfo, when he threatens1 mod fadly, he fails not to make large promifes toI the faithful, and to give the ample invitations “ tocome to him,” for their pleafure, and for their fafe-ty, “ come my people,” &c. When the Lord iscoming out of his place, to fit in judgment uponthe inhabitants of the earth, and to give out fen-tence upon them, according to their doings, and topunifh them for their iniquities, he calls his ownpeople to himfelf, where they are to be hid andpreferved. O dand dill amazed, and wonder at histender love, and fatherly care of his children, whowill not come with his cloke of zeal, and clothes ofvengeance, to give out, and to execute his fcntenccof judice upon his enemies, until that he give hispeople fair warning thereof; and alfo invites themto their dielter and fafety, which he hath preparedfor them. Ye know, Lzek. ix. the Lord fendsforth, fird, “ A man, clothed in linen, with aA 2 writer’sin Evil Times. *writer’s ink-horn by his fide, to fet a mark uponthe fore-heads of them that figh and cry, for allthe abominations that be done in the earth,” andcommands his men, with the fiaughtering weaponsin their hands, to go after, “ And fmite, and notfpare nor pity, but to flay utterly, old and young,both maids, little children and women; but not tocome near thefe upon whom the mark is fet.”Now the Lord hath men prepared with llaugb-teiing weapons in their hands to kill a facrifice atBozrah in Scotland, of prelates and malignants, [and of backfliding minifters and profeflbrs ; he is ,! icoming to be avenged on that curfed,throne, andthe fupporters thereof, for the cruelty done againft • .him, and of miniflers and proFeiTors, for their hei- : jnous treachery towards him ; and this is his com- 'miffion, and our charge unto you, to invite and to ; jcall you, and all that will give ear unto this rock ofages, for your Ihelter, unto the chambers of hisprefence and protection, where ye (hall be faved Iwith delight. “ O come my people,” in which ,words, ye have, Firft, an invitation ‘ come.” Se- /; ,condly, The perfons invited, or the determination i,thereof, “ my people.” Thirdly, That which theyare invited unto, The chamber of the Lord’s pro- ^teflion and prefence, whereunto he invites them to : i,enter.” Fourthly, Their carriage, and that which | ,they are to do there, “ Shut thy doors about thee, |i ,and hide thyfelf, as it were, for a little moment.” iFifthly, The fafety of thefe chambers, being anhiding-place, u until the indignation be over paft;”or rather, the determination of the continuance oftheir hiding, “ until the indignation be over paft.”As to the firft, The invitation, “ Come, O come,”a homely word indeed; this is no lefs than, “ Be¬hold me! behold me!” Here is enough to give,and here is willingnefs to give, only come, onlyreceive, only take, and ye fliall not want.Bttt7hi Saints’ Duty in Evil Times. $to enlarge a lirtle, we lay down a twofolddoffrine. Doft. Firlt, “ There is both ability andwillingnefs in the Lord, to give you whatfoeverjyour necelFity requires.”‘ Ability,' What would you have? Salvationp.nd deliverance; then ‘ He is able to fave to theuttermoft, all that come unto him,' Heb vii 25.Lift up your eyes and behold a wonder, which yecannot behold, behold a wonder which you can¬not know, and put forth this queftion, Ifa. Ixiii. I.Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyedgarments from Bozrah ? This that is glorious in hisapparel, travelling in the greatnefs of his llrength.And his anfwer will be untoyou,it is * I thatNow rnethinkstrue, we can fetpeak in righteoafnefs, mighty to five.’ Gain-fay itj,vhp will, ‘ The pleafure of the Lord (hall profpera his hand, he Ibail fee of the travel of his foul,nd be fatisheddI hear you faying. All that iscur feals to itj but O, is heng ? there is our queftion. Willing indeed;,ne is not more able, than he is willing. Whatlire all his promifes, but declarations of his freeIwillingnefs ? What are all his fweet invitations,tout to tell you that he is willing, and ye are wel-nronie ? ‘ He that thirlleth, let him come, and who¬soever will, let him come., and take of the water offe freely.’ Ah ! what fay you to it now ? Gives your feal to his willingnefs alfo. Go, fay ye,hy not? Ye have it. Then come away, there iso more wanting, fay come ; we know he is wil-ng, and we fet our feal to his willingnefs. Buthe willing to receive me? Satisfy me in that,nd then I will be right. Ah cheat! ye are takingour word back again now, and lifting off yourleal; if ye except i.ot-yourfelf, he will not exceptmu : his invitatica is uato ali^‘every one come,lie that thirfleth, come, he that hath no money,Acome.< The Saints* Duty in Evil'Times.come.’ Ifa. Iv. i. Now, why will ye be To ill to jyourfelves, as to debar yourfelves ? For he dothnot do it; ye may as well, and as rationally fay,that ye are not a body, as to fay, he debars you. iHis invitation is to every one. Now, alfent to this, ,and then, before you except yourfeif out thereof,yon mull firft not have a being, neither of foul norbody. We fay, for you to think that he exceptsyou, it is all one as to deny yourfeif to be the chil¬dren of Adam. Now, O come, come niggard, whataileth thee ? Come, what would ye have, that isnot in Chrift ? O ! that fweet invitation ‘ come/ ,we cannot tell what is in it; there is a depth in it ,that all the angels in heaven cannot fathom; it is noil,lefs than Jefus Chrifl, ‘ who was delivered for ourji,oifences, and was raifed again for our juftiScation.T i.fpreading forth his arms, and inviting you, he is o--pening up himfelf, his all-fufficiency and fuper-.tranfcendent excellency, and calling unto all poorneedy things, come, here is enough for you; give- iin your defires, and you fliall have them fatisfied t$ ,the full. What then have ye to fay to the bargain ?Come, come, it is a rich commodity, and there isno hicking at the price, only receive and have, the- .eafieft of all terms, there is no more required at! i.your hands. But fay ye, Ha Sir, ye go without,your bounds, the invitation in your text, is to hijipeople, ye are all wrong, we are not fa far out, asiye trow; the invitation is to his people, to ‘ enterinto their chambers, and to all, who will come andbecome his people, to ‘enter into their chambers/1and fo this is a free market. We mud invite all toicome, ye who are enemies, laydown your annSragainfl him, and come; ye who are upholding hi*enemies, and complying with them in their finfulicourfes and abominations, by paying them cefs andlocality, and by furnifliing them meat and drink,(Avbich is more than ‘ a bidding them God fpeed, !which)The Saintf Duty in Evil Times. 7which the Holy Ghoft, by the mouth of John, for¬bids, Second Epiftle of John, to verfe ) Quit theinputting the fword in God’s enemies’ hands, and;#come: ye who have given bonds to the adverfary,ibreak your * covenant with hell and death,’ anda come; break your fworn allegiance to the devil,land come, and fwear a new allegiance to JefusjChrift, and ye fhall never rue it: ye who compearbefore their courts, and pay them fines, whereby,both ye acknowledge them robbers of God, and;call your duty your fin, quit thefe courfes and comeye, who go to the curates, leave thefe perjured blindguides and come; ye who go to the indulged, leaveIthefe traitors to God. Ye, who go to the backflid-lilden fxlent minifters, leave thefe betrayers of the■ijcaufe, and deferters of the crofs of Chr'ft, and come;' meave all thefe and follow him, he is a true guide,:f;and will be fo unto you, ye who any ways feek orifrake the enemies’ proteflion, leave that and come;acome to him, and ye fhall find chambers indeed,i both for fafety and delight. All ye that are llranger*I to him come, ye that ar-e in nature come, and yethat know him come. We mull preach that wordcome, unto you, fo long as ye are here, until ye betranfplanted put of this fpiritual warfare, into ce-leftial triumph. O Sirs,-come, come, alk what yewill, and he will give it; O come, come.Now, it were requifite here to (hew you, whoit is that comes unto Chrilt, who it is that com£Snot; but it will come as fitly in the fecond thingwhich we have noticed in the words, and fo weproceed unto it.The fecond thing, ye know, was this, the per-8 fans invited, or the determination of the invitation^* my people.’ Thefe are they whom he invites to! their chambers; his people, they who fubfcribe tothe terms of his covenant, which is, ‘ I will beyour God, and ye lhall be my peoplethey whomak«/8 The Saints’’ Duty in Evil Times.make a covenant with him by facrifice, they whocovenant with him only to be accepted through thefacrifice of his Son, and they who facrifice them-felves to him, they who efpoufe him'Ho be theirGod, and his quarrel and concernment to be theirs.But before we enter upon what we propofed, we •proceed to the third thing in the words, to makeway for it, and fo fhall return.The third thing was this, their chambers where- |into they are invited to enter j their chambers, thatis, the chambers of the Lord’s proteflion and pre¬fence, what are th*fe chambers do you think ? Aflc |at Solomon, and he will tell you, Prov. xviii. 10.‘ The name of the Lord is a ftrong tower, the ;righteous run into it and are fafe.’ It is Jefus ChriiVthat ye are invited unto.Do£h 2. ‘ Thefe chambers are fafe, and theywho are therein, need not fear wrath,’ fee for theconfirmation of this point, Ifa. xxxii. 2. ‘A man Jfhaftl be as an hiding-place from the wind, and acovert from the tempeft, as rivers of water in adry place, as a fhadow of a great rock in a weary \land.’There is the defeription of thefe chambers, theyate chambers of fafety, no wind can win there intothem, no tempeft can overtake them who are there*ye are without the flood mark of the wrath of God,and they are chambers of delight; ye will not wantrefrefhing! they are ‘ rivers of water in a dry place,the fhadow of a great rock in a weary land;’ wecannot commend them unto you, for they pafs theeloquence of angels to do it; but enter thefe, andve fhall find more than we can tell you; enter, andye fh ill find more than ye will able to tell your*felves: Enter, we fay, that is'the invitation: Put ye . Iwill fay, how ftiall we enter? What is requifite forour entering ? What will take us in,? Anfwer, FaitlnThat is the thing will take you in;.that is the keyThe Saints’ Duty in Evil Times. 9that opens thefe doors, the ufe of the means andthe exercife of Faith, the hand of duty, and the keyof faith ; but take notice, it is true faving faith ; itis neither hiftorkal, temporary, nor the faith ofmiracles; but it is faving faith, whereby Chrilt isonly received and reftecl upon ; it is faith, as artrnftrument apprehending the object, Chrifl: It isthat (I fay) which taketh you inCut for your more clear uptaking whereof, con»fider what is requifite in true faving faith. Firft*A deep fight and fenfe of your loft condition, (hatye are deftrcyed, liable to the wrath of God, and. all the curies in the law. Secondly, A fcnfc of this,that there is nothing in you, or that ye can do, that| will help you, it is beyond all created power to re¬cover you, and fo, not all feeking to eftabliih afelf-righteoufnefs, it is, ‘ Come unco me ye that la¬bour and are heavy laden and I will give you reft/7 hirdly, A right fight of the all-fufficieney that is inJtfus Chrift, and his excellency drawing the heart, cut after him, as all the defire of the foui, and fo1 clofing with him. Therefore, ye who remain fenfe-1 lefs of your loft condition, have a care; ye are noti yet in thefe chambers.But that it may be made clear unto you, confi-b| dcr moreover, if ye would enter into thefe cham-1 hers; Firft, Ye muft clofe with Cbrift alone, thereImuft nothing have a fhare in the meritorious caufein bringing you there, hut hinjfelf only; ye muftj rot lay part of the weight upon him, and part up-j cn ycurielves and your duties: No, no, he muft ei-i;l ther have it all on his back, or eife he will havei, rcne of it, therefore take heed to yourfelves. Se¬condly, Yen muft ciofe w ith full Chrift, as Prophet,Pi idl and King ; as a Prophet to teach you his will;be muft be your fthoolmafter; as Prieft, throughwbofe facrifice only, the Father muft accept you,and who continually makes intercefilon at his rightA 5h.t.idso The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.Tiand for you; and as King, to fway a fceptre inyour fouls to rule you according to his own law,and to call; down, and to call; out e-very thing exalt¬ing itfelf againft his kingdom within you.O take heed to this, ye who regard not his will,ye who give him nor a throne in your hearts; with¬out this, ye cannot ‘enter into thefe chambers:*and aflure yourfelves, if he/were reigning in you,ye would care more, and contend more for hiskingdom without you, and in the world. Takeheed to this, ye who care not tho* a tyrant pofl'efshis throne, and as it were, fpoil him of his princelyrobes : take heed to this, ye who (land not to holddown his kingdom, by upholding of his enemies.Thirdly, Ye muff (if ye would enter into thefechambers) clofe with all the inconveniencies thatfollow him, his crcts mud be taken up, Luke ix.23, 24. ‘ If any man will come after me, let himdeny himfelf, and take up his crofs daily, and fol¬low me. For whofoever will fave his life, (hall lofeit: But whofoever will lofe his life for my fake, thefame (hall fave it.’ Whatever he calls you untomuft be embraced: your heart mufl fubferibe to thercafonablenefs and defireablenefs of every one ofthefe inconveniencies, but let us change their namesand call them conveniences and Chriflian advan¬tages, and fo we may ; for they are of fpecial goodufe to Chriftians; thefe are a part of the difeiplineof Chrid’s fchool, and fome fay this is David’smeaning, Pfal. cxvi. 13. where he,fays, ‘ I willtake the cup of falvation.’ That is, as they fay, thecup of aflli£lion, as that whereby the Ford worksthe falva-tion of his people; and fo indeed the cupof affli£Iion may be called the cup of falvation.Now that is the way ye muft enter.U/e. O come away, let us hear what ye fay to it.Are ye willing to enter this way? Think upon it.This is (he way ye mufl; enter, and in our telling ofThe Sainti* Duty in Evil Times.tiit, we may tremble to think upon this generation,who will not clofe with thefe (fo called) inconve-niencies. We have no flcii! of people’s clofrng withChrift, who will not clofe with thefe. But Oh,What fay ye unto us ? What is your reply? Is itnot this, ‘ That neither death nor life, nor angels,nor principalities, nor powers, nor things prefent,i nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any; other creature, rtiall be able to feparate us from thelove of God, which is in Chrift Jefus our Lord ’ Isthis your faying, then come away, take him, takeon his yokei ‘ For his yoke is eafy, and his bur-l:i den iight.’E R M O N.If^. xxvi. 29. Come my peoplet &c.KIS is the way that folk undo themfeive*.and forfake their own mercitsj that whicht to chafe them to God, chafes them out fromAll hypocrital convitRions only put themjither away from the phyfician ; fo it is withnent, which (liould put folk to their duties,are thereby put from it. When the Lordrturnilhes his glittering fword of juftice, then it isto drive his own children unto his own hand,1 ; Come my people, &c.’ Ye know the laft occa¬sion how we divided thefe words; ye know alfo,ciow that before we left the fitft head, we faid, itawould be requifite to ftiow unto you, who it is thfft^bomes to Chrift, and who it is that pot: ButFollows the AfternoonT2 ^he taints' Dhty in Evil Times.vt'C told you', that it would ccrrne more fitly in the(ocond Head ; yet, to make way for it, we proceedforward unto the third thing in the words. Andnow, having touched that a little, we return again,as we told you we purpofed to do, and fliall (as theLord will enable) open the Second Head, further■declaring, who are his people: to -wit,Thefe, as we were faying, who have made a co¬venant with him by facrifice, to be accepted on-’ythro* the facrifice of his Son, and w ho facrihce awaythemfelves unto him.- In & ward it is thefe whoare righteous, and who live righteoufly. Thefe whoare righteous, are thefe who are fieri unto Chrifl: forhis rigbteoufnefs, and have gotten themfelves cloth¬ed therewith. But that ye may the more clearly -fake up, who thefe are who come unto-Chrid; be¬fore we give you feme marks of them, and fomerules how to apply thefe marks, we (hall fit ft de-.clare who it is that come not.Firft, Thete come not unto Chrift, who comerot from all fin, Ezck. xviii. 21. ‘ But if the wick¬ed will turn from all fins that he hath committed,and keep all my llatures, and do that which islawful and righf, he fliall furely live, he fliall notdie-'5 Ye fee .he condition, it is if ye will turn fromall fin, both omiftion and ccmmifl'tcr; from all fin, ;unto all duty; leav'ng aH fin, and taking up ailChriftian duty. Therefore remember, >f ye enter¬tain any one idol that will keep Chrift out. Ma¬ny fay of fome idol fin, that they do not quit, asLot fat'd of Zoa", ' It is a little one, therefore letn e biook it,’ but remember whaf David fays, ‘ IfI regard iniquity hr my heart-', the Lord will nothear me, Pfal. Jxvi. 18. Remember this, and de-ftrey not ycurfelves, ye who follow' not grofs fwear-ing, drinking or whoring, and the like, yet cleaveunto your petty mincLt oaths, and your idle vaindifeourfe, and your light converfation. O remem-The Saints' Duty in Evil 'Times» 13i&;r this ye who have any predominate, whofe headlyeck-p; ycur right hand and your right eye finsijsr.uft be cut off, and plucked our, before ye can en-; ter into the kingdom of heaven: I fay, if ye en»ijteruin any predominate, it fpe^ks out this, ThatIyewould as well entertain all fins, if your inclina¬tion were as bent upon them, and that ye do notleave them, as they ate hateful to God, but only,!as they arc not fo delightfcme or hurtful unto you.O ! take heed, < xcept ye repent and amend, * yefliall all kkewife periih ’ Remember this ye mo¬ral civilians, w; i« are not chargeable with grofsproiapity in your private walk, yet have your handsimbrued in. blood, and have them defiled with pub-,lie land fins, which procuse bntf-judgments: yeI! take a liberty to p y ct fs, and fines, and fiends toii Baal’s pri fls, and do many other things to ftrength-: en the enemies of our Lord, and condemn hiscAtfe, 1 fay, take heed to you rfe Ives ■, ‘except yerepent and amend, ye fli ill all like wife perifh,’ Re-member this, ye who turfi not to take up all Chrif-tian duties-with you •, ye thii k it enough, ye babbleever two or t-hree w ords at night and at morn toyeurfelves, tho’you fet not up the worfiiip of Godin.ycur families, and if ye do that, ye th'nk thatenough, though ye neither put to your hand fo a£twith the Lord, nor fympatfiize wiih his afflidledpeople, nor imVo'dy yourfclves in f. ciety with them,to cry for all the abominatiens of the land. O takeheed, ‘ except ye repent and amend, ye {hall alllikewife perifh.’ • •-Secondly, '1 hefe come not unto Chrift, who, tho’they may come" a great length, not to be chargeableby man, neither with omiffion nor ccmmiffion, yetrtil there; all that will net take them to heaven.•Paul, before bis ccnverfion, he reports of himfelf,Phil, iii. 6. ‘ was tou>.h;ng the rightecufnefs, whichis in the Jaw bltmtlcfs.’ lie was.as tiiin a kgalift as*4 The Saints1 Dufy in Evil Times'.the beft of you; but mark what he fays of himfelfin the 7, 8 and 9 verfes, ‘ But what things weregain to me; thofe I counted lofs for Chrift, yeadoubtlcfs, and I count all things but lofs, for theexcellency of the knowledge of Chrifl: Jefus myLord, for whom I have fuffered the lofs of all things,and do count them but dung, that I may win Chrift,and be found in him, not having mine own righte-Oufnefs, which is of the law, but that which isthrough the faith of Chrift, the righteoufnefs whichis of God by faith.’ There is that which ye muftionly reft on, and no where elfe, *-at upon the com-pleat and inherent righteonfrets of Jefus Chrift ;therefore take heed how ye buildThirdly, Thefe come not unto Jefus Chrift, whofeed themfelvcs up in that deluding fancy, that theyhave not fo much need of him, as others have, byreafon of their thinking their fins but little fins. O,fay fome, I am not like the profane and wicked ;"What then need I fear? O poor fool, mind whatthe Apoftle tells the$, Gal. iii. 10. ‘ For in fuch acafe, thou art under the law, and as many as are ofthe works of the law, are under the curfe, for it iswritten, curfed is every one that continueth not inall things which are written in the law, to do them.’A penknife can take away the life as well as a broadfword: Indeed I- think the cafe of the wicked andprofane is more hopeful than tKy cafe, becaufethey will be fooner gotten convinced of the necef-fity of repentance than thou wilt.Fourthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who be-eaufe they meet with favourable difpenfations, andgreat proofs of the Lord’s general providences,thereupon conclude all is well with them. Thinkupon what David fays, Pfal. xvii. 14. ‘From menwhich are thy hand, O Lord, from men of theworld, which have their pottions in this life, andwhofe belly thou filleft with thy hid treafure: theyarc••.j*Thi Saints* Duty in Evil Times. 1$re full of children, and leave the reft of their fub-lance to their babes.* ‘ None knoweth love or ba¬led by all that is before him,’ EccI xi.: Fifthly Thefe come not to Chrift, who think11 is right with them, becaufe they are not chal-imged in their confciences. O mad fools, whofcearts are fealed with obduration, the faddeft placep all the feripture holds forth your cafe, Hof. iv.7. ‘ Ephraim is joined to his idols: Let him a-one ' When ye drop into hell, the fire thereof will'ijoon burn up that thick fkin that is grown uponK'otir confciences.Sixthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who reft::ipon their apprehended forrow for fin. O, fayIthey, I am not fuch a fool as to think all is well,(jpecaufe 1 want challenges, but becaufe I have them:'idemember Efau, remember Judas, your building:jipon your forrows and tears, is like a man thatguilds upon a flow-mofs.■ Seventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who‘fall off the common road of fin unto duty, and:|ireft there: Mind what our Lord fays of the con-feeity Pharifee, Luke xviii. it, 12, 13 and 14.iFhat tho’ he was not an extortioner, unjuft, nor anidulterer and fafted twice a week, and oaid tithes>f all that he had poffeffed, yet he went not down.to his houfe fo juftified as the poor publican did;jjyet ye will fay, I am far from fwearing, drinking,o&c. and have betaken myfelf to the fociety of theepple of God ; and I read and prjy, &c. there-ore all is well. O poor fool, thy cafe is now worfethan ever. O we tremble to think upon the mul¬titude that pray themfelves unto hell: This is Da¬vid indeed, who kills his ten thoufands. Whatjfiiall I liken you to? Ye are like a man that diggethdeep down, and cafts out the old earth, bringsnew earth x>( his own mould, but goes not thellength of the rock.Eighthly,16 The Saints’ Duty in Evil Times',Eighthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who even 'go that Length, as to affent to the fpiritu^l mean- ;ing of the law, and rell there. This is much in- "deed ; this is a great length, yea a greater lengththan the mod part of you. who are hearing me thil [day have come unto, and yet they are far from thj ikingdom of heaven. Obferve that paflage, Markxii, 32, 33. Where a fcribe anfwered our Lord,and faid ‘To love" the Lord with all the heart,and with all the underftanding, and with all the;foul, and with all the ftrength, and to love hisneighbour as himfelf, is more than whole burnt-of¬ferings and facrifices.’ To whom our Lord replies,34 verfe, ‘ Thou art not far ftom the kingdom ofGod.’Ninthly, Thefe come not unto Jefus Chrift, who:have common gifts, and reft there. O fay ye, Ifind a faculty of prayer, I want not w’ords enoughand get them bravely fet upon the pins, and I havegreat knowledge of the fcriptures, and I am ftraightand not biafied in my judgment} and what needfuch a man (as I) fear? O deluded fool, confiderwhat Paul fays, i Cor. xiii. 2. * Tho’ I have thegift of prophecy, and underftand all myftertes, andall knowledge, and tho’ I have all faith, fo thatTcculd remove mountains, and have not charity, Iam nothing.’ No doubt, Judas had much of thisfGod will give gifts unto perfons, for the behoof andadvantage of others; but when he gives grace, itis ay for their own advantage; yea, the devil isbetter gifted, and hath more knowledge than all ofyou have.Tenthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who fuf-fer many things materially for the truth, and havefome feeming fruits thereof, and reft there; do notthink that your fuffering your goods to be fpoiled,!and yOurfelves caft out of your habitation before yecomply with the cnemy^ is a ground, from whichThe Saints' Duty in Evil Times. 17ye may conclude all to be right: Nay, I tell you,,as the Apoflle fays, 1 Cor. xiii. ‘ Tho’ ye fhouldibeftow all your goods to feed the poor, tho’ I gaveimy body to be burned, and have not charity, itiprofits me nothing;’ Yea, the fame Apoftle fup-ipofeth, Gal. iii. 4 ‘ That there may be much fuf-iferingin vain.* Have ye fuffered fo many thingsn in vain? If it be yet in vain. There are many ofyou that are fuffering this day materially for Chrift ;imaterially, we fay, and not formally; for hypo¬crites never win to fincerity in their doings andfufferings, nor to do them as to God; and yet yewill get hell to fuffer in throughout all eternity;'yea, a man when his credit is ftraitly engaged, heI may give his life for the caufe, and yet get hell forhis reward;Eleventhly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, who'have only a hiftorical and temporary faith, inlleadof a faving faith, tho’ye ftiould believe all the truthsiin the Bible, yet that will not avail you, the devilsbelieve and tremble; yea, tho’ you ftiouid give yourgeneral aflent to the way of falvation by Chrift, yetunlefs you receive and embrace him, and reft uponhim, all will be for nought: Look the cafe of thispeople; Ifa. xlviii. 2. ‘Who call themfelves of theholy city, and flay themfelves upon the God of If-rael;’ but what fays the Lord of them ? ‘Yet notin truth nor in righteoufnefs:’ O take heed whatye are doing, and do not deceive yourfelves, for yemay wdn this length, as to be convinced, that it is1 good to come unto Chrift, and think ye have doneit, being blinded by your pride and may feme waycomfort yourfclves, as if ye had done it, in thisyour prefumptuous dream, and yet really, neverjhave done it: never really, have been brought todeny your own righteoufnefs, and to receive Chrift,relying only mton him for attaining of life throughhis righteoafnefs aacbfatisfa&iaa.Twelfth!HI1yl 8 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times,Twelfthly, Thefe come not unto Chrift, whohave only the common operation of the Spirit, up¬on the alfedtion within, and refting there, concludethat all is well with them. We have already fpokenof the danger of relting upon apprehended forrowfor fin, fo there may be much alfo of the flafhes ofjoy, tendernefs and heart meltings, which hypo¬crites may have at fometimes by another. Confiderthefe who were John’s hearers, John v. 35. ‘ Whofora feafon rejoiced in his light.* O! beware ofgofpel hypocrites, take not flalhes for converfion.If it could be determined how great a length hypo¬crites may come, v/e think it would fill here. Owhat (hall we fay of it! do what they will, andcome as great a length as they can, they never comeunto Chriit, who are not fully denied to themfclves,and pofitively reft only upon Jefus Chrift, for juf-tification and fan&ification. True faith hath twovoices. Firft, it calb and cries, O finner, lean notto thyfelf, reft not there. Secondly, O finner, refton Jefus Chrift, and lean unto himfelf.DJe. Now O believers, fearch and try yourfelves,fet about it earneftly, this is your work, and it willnot be done flumbering and deeping: there aremany of you here this day, who arc not come thelength of fome of thefe fteps, which we have nam-'ed} yea, ye may come thro’ them all everyone,and if ye go not further, ye will never win to Chrift:And in his name I tell you, ‘ Except your righte-oufnefs exceed the Scribes and Fharifees, ye cannotenter into the kingdom of heaven.’Ye know, we gave you fome hints of thefe whoare the Lord’s people, viz. Thefe who have ‘ comeunto Chrift,’ and are made righteous, and live righ-teoufly: And for the more clearing of it, we nowdeclare who thefe are, who have come unto him, (by giving fome marks and evidences, how the fame tmay be known. We are not fpcaking of 1 being inChrift, IiIt13iHThe Saints' Duty in Evil Times. 19Chrift,’ as a creature by creation and prefervation,nor as a member externally, but as a member in¬ternally and efFe&ually, but ye will fay, how is that ?Anf. By the Oriel union and communion betwixtChrift and the Chriftians, which is from the ftri£t-nefs of the bond ; to wit, His word and Spirit onhis part, and faith and love on their part. ^Now wefay, how will that be known? Well, we will giveyou thefe marksi therefore try yourfelves. For,Firft, If ye be come to Chrift, then ye will findin you, a hatred of all fin naturaliy, and a defire toall good, though often ye may fail in the perform¬ance, Rom vii 15. Paul fays, ‘ That which I do,I allow not, for what I would, that I do not, butwhat I hate that I do,’ 1 John iii. 6. ‘ Whofoeverabidethin him finneth not:’ to wit, Firft, Purpof-edly, Secondly, Willingly, Thirdly, Affe£lionate-ly, Fourthly, Not unto death: For the Lord’s peo¬ple have, (1.) Grief, (2.) Care to recover. (3.)Fear to fin. O! can ye run on in fin, without re¬turning and care of repentance y if it be fo, ye arenot in this living root.Secondly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye willfind this in you, a right and high efteem of theLord’s mercy, he and his falvation will be only pre¬cious in your eyes, ‘ Bleffed is he whofe tranfgref-fion is forgiven, whofe fin is covered/ Pfal. xxxii.I. That will be your thoughts.Thirdly, If ye be come unto Chrift, ye will findthis in you, a love unto, the way of holinefs, as wellas happinefs itfelf: Yea, your heart will be fo drawnafter that noble device of falvation, feeing all theglorious attributes of God fo fhining therein, thatye would in no ways be content to go to heaven a-nother way, than that glorious way, tho’it couldbe had, and this is all the Lord requires of you,only a pleafing the device. This is the brazen fer-pent, which ye muft look unto for healing. O!Com* away. Fourthly*20 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.Fourthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye willfind this in you, an adling upon God as he a£!s up¬on you; hath he called you? then ye will call up¬on him; hath he juftified you ? then ye will juftifyhim.Fifthly, IF ye be come tn\to Chrift, then ye willfind this in you, a felf-deirial, and a daily takingup of the crofs, againft your own inclinations, the • Jdo£Irine and praiftice of mortification, and a cuttingyourfelf fhort of carnal delights will be defired byyou.Sixthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then ye willbe fubjefl unto him willingly, and yield fweetly un¬to the fwaying of his fceptre in your foul.Seventhly. If ye be come unto Chrift, then yeare fubj,e£I unto him univerfafty in all his commands.Eighthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then yearefubjeft unto him fiucerely hi all things* feeki'ng his-glory.Ninthly If ye b come unto Chrift, then ye arefubjeft unto him conflantly, obeying him withoutwearying.Tenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then his wordabideth in you, i John ii. 14. If that which yehave heard from the beginning remain in you, yefliall continue in the Son and in the Father, it mu ft-abide in you, fo as your mind underftands it, yourhearts aftedl it. O how have that which ye haveread and heard, remained? Few, few, in Chrift.Eleventhly,-If ye be come unto Chrift, ye will find'his Spirit, ‘ leading you unto all truth,’ John xvi.13. Teachipg'thee-and leading thee unto, and con¬firming thee in duty; but do not miftake, we meanno enthufiaft\c fpirit, but his word and Spirit whichhe hath enjoined,*Ifa lix, 21. ‘ My Spirit which !is upon thee, and my words which I have put in |thy mouth, ftuii not depart,Twdithly,The Saints' Duty in Evil Times. 84Twelfthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then yeif,I will find his Spirit convincing you of fin.Thirteenthly, If ye be come unto-Chrift, then yei will find bis Spirit ruling and commanding you, cart¬ing down all things exalted againft Chart's kingdom.Fourteenthly, If-ye be come unto Chrirt, thenLye will find his Spirit in you by fupplication, lead¬ing unto fenfe of fin, and appiehenfion of the ne-;i| ceffity of mercy, which makes fervency, letting thefoul fee God only appealed in Chrift, and fealeth; tlje truth cf God’s promifes and records.Fifteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then yewill find faith in .you, that will be your ftay in allLeftates, actions, temptations and afflictions: This is!; hard to find out, yet it may be found out, if yei have a defire for it, ye may have it.Sixteenthly, If ye be come unto Chrift, then yev/ill find an admirable change in you, a new fpiritwithout guile, a new judgment, new dtfires, newafFeClions, love, hatred, forzew, joy, new fenfes,eyes, fmejlling, ears, tafte, feeling. U/e. Now findye thefe, or any of thefe marks really in you, thenideubt no more, mifbelieve no more, all is fure, yeare come unto Chrift, and feeing ye are come un-ta him, prefs ay for more and more of his likenefs,for a progrefs in fanCtific^tion. Remember, i John|ii. 6. He that faith he abideth iri him, ought him-elf alfo to walk even as be walked.’ And this leads«us unto the third thing in the opening up of thisijipoint, to wit, To declare who are his people; they,s we were faying, who are righteous, and liveighteoufly. Now thefe who are righteous, are thefeuvho have fled unto Chrift., and they indeed liveighteoufly. Yet to make it more clear, we (halln fhort tell you, who they a: who live righteouf-jy: Thefe, to wit, in a worn, ‘ Who walk as he(walked.’Omnia nos Chrijli vita docere poteji .*Firft22 The Saints* Duty in Evil Tines.Firft, They live righteoufly, beginning aH thingswith God, referring ajl things to God. Secondly,They do all things by the warrant of the word,contemning their own wills, that they might dothe Lord’s: ‘ Not my will, but thy will be done,’they muft lofe their life, before they lofe their obe¬dience. Thirdly, They walk holily, ‘ Be ye ho¬ly, as I am holy,* John iii. 3. ‘Every man thathath this hope in him, purifieth himfelf even as heis pure.’ Fourthly, They walk fruitfully, they go a-bout doing good; O fad ! not only the unfruitfulwalking of this generation, but even the Humblingthat they are. Fifthly, They walk juflly, not wrong¬ing any: Thefe are they who live righteoufly, whowalk fo as Chrifl: walked: O! how few righteous li- !|vers are amongft you, and thefe only are his peo- [pie, righteous perfons, righteous livers, and it isthefe whom the Lord hath chambers for. , !Now Sixthly, We proceed to the rules how toapply thefe evidence**. Firft, Tbo’ ye find themnot all, yet if ye find one or more of them really,then comfort yourfelves. Secondly, If ye find notwhat formerly ye have found, labour more to re¬new the fame, than to feek a fight of the old.Thirdly, Do not try yourfclves in the hour of temp¬tation. Fourthly, Whon. ye find marks and evi¬dences, do not reft upon them, for though ye havethem, they may foon be gone. Fifthly, Do not ,purfue fo much to fatisfy your fenfe for the prefent,as to have a folid well-grounded aflurance for thetime to come. Sixthly, Be not fo defirous to knowwhat ye are, as what ye fhould do. Spend notyour time in queftioning your ftate, as ye do, butufe the means of real union and communion withChrift: This is the ftiorteft and fure(J way. Se¬venthly, Judge not yourfelves by the meafure of ,your graces, but by the fmcerity of them. Eight-IThe Saints' Duty in Evil 7 imes. 23ly, Compare not yourfelves too much to the faints,but judge yourfelves by the word.Ninthly, When there is a ferious wreftling a-gainfi. corruption, tho’ not meeting with any fenfi-ible victory, yet call not away your hope. Paulitells you, Rom. vii. How far a child of JGod may'be enllaved by a body of fin.Tenthly, Remember ye have to do with God ina covenant of grace. Now, What more fhall wefay ? Muft we end as we began ! Oh ! come a-way, come away to Chrift, this Prince of delights,come, and enter into thefe chambers. Motive. Firft,Come away and enter, then your condition will behonourable with Chrift. Secondly, Comfortable.1 'All your debts are paid. Thirdly, Rich. All thatIChrift hath, grace and goodnefs is all thine. Fourth-iily, Fn fitful. He purgeth his branches. Fifthly,i Safe. He takes all your quarrels upon him, your',:;j head will ay be above the water. Sixthly, It is the;only ftate of perfe&ion, which is in him, and de-i rived to us. Seventhly, Then all the promifes areyours. Eighthly, It is a fure ftate, in this life ye;have ftrength againft temptations; * my grace isfufficient for you.’ Ninthly, In.death, affurance.They that fleep in Chrift, perifti not. Tenthly, Inithe day of judgment, boldnefs: O come away, theIchambers are everyway pleafant, and every waytfafe, come away, the indignation fliall not over-Utake you.IThe Lord is coming down with an univerfal de¬luge of wrath upon the generality: Come away,and ye fhall be hid. CM he is willing, he is wil¬ding, he would not have fent this meflage to you•this day, if he had not been willing: And now,when ye are keeping a fafl-day unto the Lord, whothath given you this call, pray that he would helpjyou rightly to improve it; I fay, O improve it■rightly, by your anfwering of it.But24 The Saints' Duty in Evil Times.But ye will fay, how {hall we improve it? Anf.\Firft, Improve it, by feeing that it is only of the ‘Lord’s free mercy, that he hath given it. Ezek.'xxvi. 22. ‘ I do not this for your fake, O! houfe!of Ifrael, but for mine holy name’s fake.*Secondly, Improve it, by being thereby the more!Birred up to your duty, Pfal. cxvi. ‘ Becaufe he Ihath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call fUpon hi*n as long -as I live.’ Hath he heard your*prayers in this? then be more in prayer, and be|more fingle in prayer, and all other duties than everfiheretofore.Thirdly, Improve it, by loving the Lord him-’felf, who hath granted you it, Pfal. cxvi. ‘ I love*!'the Lord,hecaufe he hath heard my voice and fup-f]plication.’Fourthly, Improve it, by feparating yoorfelvesimore from the abominations of the time, by mak-ling clean hearts and dean hands, Pfal. vi. 8. ‘ De-fp-art from me ye workers of iniquity, the Lord|hath heard the voice of my fupplicatiom’Fifthly, Improve it, by having a high and be-lcoming efteem of the ordinance, yet keeping in its;own room, and not refting upon it, but feeking un<4to the Lord himfelf, Amos v. 4. ‘‘Seek ye me, and*ye lhall live, but feek not to Beth-el.’Sixthly, Improve it, by anfwering his call there¬in, and let not the Lord have it to fay of you, thatafter long and many refufals, ‘ Yet I came atidjllretched forth my wings, and would have gather*!ed you, as a hen gathereth her chickens, but yelwould not.’ O ! let him not have that to fay |Come away, come away, ‘ Enter into your cham-1bers, and fhut your doors about you, and hide your-fdves as it were for a little moment, until the in-i 1dignation be overpaft.’FINIS.