Purgatory proved, illuftrated, andfet forth in a clear Light.AFUNERAL SERMON*By Father MURTAUGH O’LAVERY,Pr'njl of the Purifies of St. John's, Dromore and Machrelm.on the death of one of his Parifhioners.Vivitpoft Funera Virtus. Anno 1747*TO WHICH IS ADDED,The Confecration of a Murderer of Heretick Prin¬ces ; if'd by the Jtfitits in I’opijh Countries,STIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL.18 o x.( 2 )PURGATORYProved, illuftrated, and fet forthin a Clear Light.My Friends,TOXJ all know, ir iOi a cuThtomary ting viJ| de Clergy, ien dey are going to preacha Shannon Ru dey viil be ok a text fromIhum particular p!a(h .of de Scripture ; butfor dat very rafhoh becauje he ifh cufluomary/1 vill not do it. For I love to be Shingular :And you know Shingularity in the right, ifhnever a crime yet.And afn dere are a great many of you ga¬ther here upon dun occalhon, (hum vid an ho-nelt intention, no doubt, to be inliruflcd, danlay yourfhelvcs op n to de conviction of detruth, fhum p chaps, to make Shell: of aurHoly Decree, ond Ijugh at de fdohries of t'e.Mafs. as dty vill profanely ipeak : In fhoir,as dere are a great many ol you '"gather here,Ihurfi Piiipfvterian, (hum Shurch or Fng-lilhman, and fhum Roman Catholic, I diuilpreach you a fbarmon in Engliiii, dat you vili.•ail equally underhand fat I vas (hayArd———. —C 3 }And -de Shubjecl { chufe to infifi upon,ds de mo ft proper for difli occasion i!]i P >. -ga-tory: (de molt Advantageous >;<id b-.m tinaldodtrine of our Shurch- de method i h itl ob-ferve ilh didr:Firft, I fnalt prove to you D h re ifhreally inch a plaih as Pu gatory, or a n' usPat rum, where de thouls ol ai ^ur fronds, de>«part dillr life, do go, an 1 are urge jrcm deirremaining fliins and pollutions.Shecondly, I vill defcribe dilh Purgatory toyou.Turdly, I vill Ihow you de Pennance andPurgation of dat Purgatory.And Laftly, Aprply de doctrine to dull pfe-fzaent occafion.- For proofs of de firlt ting den: Datdere ifhreahv luch a plafh afh Purgatory, or a l im¬bus Fetrurn, where de flu u. of all our friendstlepart difh life do go and are purge from,deir remaining fliin and pollution : I need lhayno more, to } ou who are Catholics, den Jiili,Dat it ifh 3. doctrine upheld by our unerringcounfhels, confirmed by de Pope himfuelf, andiiamped vid de able amority of de Shurch • Katneed you, who believe in that Shurch aheady,any more proof for a dodtrine. den dat Ihe ifhyour Oracle, and your iniVlible Gm Sheifh in cie ptafn of your reaton fehfes . d un-derflanding, and has power to iaudge anu de¬cree, and determine, and dictate, ana ordain,in. C 4 ^in all matterg of religion and do&rine, and all ’dat tend to your bodies and eftates, and alldat do relate to difh vorld, or de next vorld tocome ; fat ever derefore five bid you flvay, youti'ufl flvay, fat ever fhe bid you do you muftdo wnhout ever pretending to tink or fhudgefor yeurfhelves as de Hereticks fhay, dat vidbe bhfpheming 'gainfl her vnoft holy autorisy :Nay, it vid be moll horrid impudence anddamnable herefy.But for de benefit and'conviction of odcrdenominations, who pietend to' fee vi* deirown eyes, afh de (haying ifh and thro’ degreat abundance of deir ignorance, vid (budgefor demfelves, in defe deep matter, 1 vill (howde proof upon which our holy Shurch has :younded difh doctrine' And ftrlh, we are toldin de feripture, (hum fere nor noder. Dat alltings (h i! be prttve by fire, fat fort dey are ; ijdat ii any mans build ’pon foundation, fuchas hay, nor draw, nor Hubble, nor any fuciicomhufBble materials, he. vill fuffer damage !rior loh, and de fupei (1 rufture fhaii be burn ' idown, yet he himliteif (hall be Graved, but 'jflto as bv fte, dat ifh, my.li tends, l-: Piu-gatoiial ii-re of de turd phtfli.Again, Our Shaviour did raife up van La- ;zarus (rout de dead, after he had been fivenor tree flay in de grave till t e vas (linkingagain : Now phtre was dat man’s ff.oul ailrlat while? Ah. alt, in hell he could not be,for out of hell ciere ifh no redemption : Inheaven he cou’d not be, for de fhoys andoiepiures of dat happy walk are fo great, he _■ nevtixf 5 )never vid come back to c!ifh vicked vorld ofours again, and go into a {linking catcaih oatwas mod rotten in a grave : h:go, it vafti inPurgatory, or de tnrdplaihBut again, Between cur Shavtour’s cruci¬fixion and afcenfion, it vafh forty day, agreat while my friends, near fix veek Nowwhere vafli he all dat whilcj? In heaven hevafh not alcendtd ; in hell he could not be,for out ot hell were is no redemption, asril fiiay before. Where den valh he ? Letany Herelick of you all anfwer dat now : Byde {houl of dc holy pried, der valh no ocierplaiii lor him to be, but our own turd plalh,: dat ifh Purgatory,But led 1 lliould tire your patience, 1 vificonclude dish head vid one proof more, phicki. is de only article dat iupports dish dotlrine.And iird. We arc told in de boly Gofpelj of St. SheiK-fis, shum pheie nor noeer, Dat’•j wc are all corrupted and contaminated vid dej pollutions of^shin, dat no man iiveth andshinneth not, dat dere arc none righteous,i no not van. Again, we are told m de holy1. Prophecies of de Evangel ids, shum wherei nor noder, Dac no unclean ting snail enterr into de Kingdom of Heaven : Where denshall dey go ? All we hope, vill not go toHell piping hot : For dere are a great manymens, and true Roman Catholicks, but' deyI are not fo good as to be fit lor dat holy plashwherein entereth noting dat ish unclean, nei¬ther any ting that dehleth. It remains den,4ey mud go to Purgatory, where dey snail oecleanlh;( 6' )deanfht and purg’d from their remaining pol*]uti6ns and contaminations of dtir flnns tilldey be made fit for de kingdom of heaven :And now let de Proptefiants ihay fat deypleafe, I tell you, by de fhoul of de holyPrieft, dere is no poflibillty of ever getting toheaven, till dey frit go dere and undergo deirpennance. It is plain den, de fhouls of allour friends depart difh life, as well as dilhperfon now deceas, veiit to purgatory- as deturd plafh.But fither you ever hear fat fhprt a plafh.dilh purgatory ifli and fat your friends vafhfuffering dere—1 cannot tell—You never didfrom me, afii I remember, an, ’! by de confci-ence I know no body elfb wfli able to teachyou dat doctrine but myfhelf, 1 (hall dereforetake difh opportunity of explaining her alittle to you.And in .de firft plafh, It is a very largeplafh you may be hire, fen it receives for pur¬gation all true Catholicks, who are de moftnumerous people ’pon lace of de earth : Forbefide all, France nor Spain, nor Italy, norRome are Catholics, dere are a great manymore, who are difperfed through de king¬doms of de vorld, de Propteftanps themfhelves,phen dey count heads vid ufh, find, to deregreat fhorrow, dat we are more than twoturds of the inhabitants of Ireland, who areprofeft Catho’s ; befide a gjeat many more,who, for getting into de revenue, and de oderadvantageous poAs, have call demfhelves Prop-^eftants (and be de fhoul of my dear GofTep*t 7 )dere are a very great numbers of dem too)but are true Roman Catho’s In deir harts,who w :l get indulgence ronl ck. Pope, havede pridt, ;md de admimuraiion ol holy oyiat deir dead, and vill get de^beneht oi Pur¬gatory, and de benefit of de clergy, fo veilas any of you ail, and c'.’fh make one half oft’oder turd lo dat you fliee, dere are but avery few who are our hearty enemies, molt ofwinch are, damn’d black pniggifn Phiplyteti-ans, oh, oh, the Devil run away vid dem all.But here, by de by, you may obferve phata parcel ol poor-ipirited, cowardly-heartedfons nor whores of bitches are we, to be folong keep down by a parcel of damn’d h? re-ticks ; ir we wou’d but take courage, and be¬gin, dey vill be noting in our hands : but ifwe fubmit vid a flavifh fubfhe&.on to deirheretick government, are hinder to carryarms, made mere foies to deir brogues—butby my own ihoul we vili have cur day aocutvid dem yet—Our plots vdl at laft iucceed fde king ot Spain, and de. king of France,&e. vain picking quarrels vid dem, vid deirdepredations, ana de.i Guarda Coita’s and iatnot : ’aue, aue aue, by my faoul dey vili fallon at laft, and take courage, arm fwiiige dembravely: dty are making great preparationarming fleets and fhips, a no putting out landforces dey are very powerful armies, de whole'vorld, ah, and by de holy Shamt Bjidget,Europe itlhelf is no able to vi cl if and dem Deyvill tell you of deir man’s of War, and deir.Haddoks( 8 )Haddoks and deir Vernons, and de devil knowfat, vili fink and flop and deftroy our ships,leave dem 'pon de bortom of Je feasr andnever let dem put dere leg 'pon Irish groundmore : dat de king of Spain leared for difh,and vill pay de convention and not fight: Bymy shou! he vill fight and beat too,-“'nsh decaute of de holy Shurch he1®' defending, andde gates of hell vill never prevail againff him.Dere vill be shiftance enough I'll varrant you,all de Shaints, our holy Moder Shurch, ailde Scotch, and, by my fhoul, de Virgin. Ma¬ry herlhelf vill fight for us; den we vill fuc-ceed to be fure, polfefs our rights and edatesagain, and eflablilh our holy religion thro’ allIreland, and l my shell may be Lord of Trom-5ieyi and of Lavry’s-Bog, before 1 vash die yet.But after fo long a digrefiion, I mult re¬turn to my explanation of Purgatory.In de shecond plash for its fituation ; it ishshuft, my friends in the middle between hea¬ven and hell : from hell on one fide by a fmallpaper vail only, but from heaven ’pon t’oderby a ftrong vail of adamant, vid gates of brafs,of which Peter keep de key, who vafh him-felf a true Catholic, lor he vash once Pope,and all our popes ever fmee are his fucceflors,and all defeended from him by a right line ofecclefiaftick gtpeology. You vill underltandde ting better, when i vill illuftrate her to youby de following firnilitude. Vou all know Mr.Harrifon’s houfe ’pon de Miravel, phen youvili go in, dere ish de parlour ’pon one hand,dere.( 9 )dere is de kitchen ’pon t’oder, dere isk,di: hali in de middle ; veil den, de parlour ishHeaven, de kitchen ish Hell, and re hall ishPurgatory in de middle ; when ary von likemysheli who kh in de habit of a sbcntleman,dat ish. who is a Roman Catholick goes in,lie vjll he fhovvTi to de parlour, but before heish inti led to enter, he mult wipe, and rub,and cle. n his foot ’pon a mat, which lie derefor dat purpofe ; dut ish, he muft do de pen-nance and purgation of dat turd plash, dat ish,he muft have money ’pon his pocket too, topay his reckoning or lie vili not be admittedinto de parlour. Dat ish, he mult pay del| clergy for psaving him out of Purgatory, or1 by my shoul Peter vill not let him enter intoI de kingdom of Heaven : }cu know veil e-V nough if a man lias money ’pun his pocket,t fpends lavishly, nor pays well, Mr. Harrifon,a nor any oder inn-keeper vill be very civil ’pon| him, take him into Lis parlour, show him a| great deal of courttfy and good manners, andr; vill vait upon him vid every ting he’ll vant;I but, if he’s poor, nor vill not pay, he vill fhut| de door ’pon him, nor kick him out —it is| shuft fo my friends vid Peter, if you pay de: clergy veli. and fupport the Shurch, Peter vill: come vid his cap in Lis hand open de gate| and welcome you dere, but if you are poor,n nor won’t pay, by de holy Crofs! he vili shut,1: de door ’pon you, nor kick, you out,. |jBut again. If any one come into de hallif yid dirty or ragged apparel, as de Phipfyteri-i ans( IO )ans and all oder Herericks do, dey vill be im*medtatelv trus down into the kitchen, dat ifliHell, my fiknds ; no quell ion vill be alk noexcufe viil be hear, but away dey vill be hur-J'y, vidout rtpleven, nor benciit ol de clergy.And difn brings me, in de turd plafh, toconfuler de penuance and purgation dat defliouls of our d^ar departed friends do fhufferdere, and undergo in dilh turd »plafh.1) flievereft pf one of which .punifhnifntsidi, de ftink of hereticks thronging through,to Hell : de damnable flench of de phiggifliPhipfyterians which make me curl my nofeto tink 'pon it : but de beft of it ifh, oey arenot fu-tFer to tarry long, or be flow in deirpaflage thro’ Purgatory, left dey llreuld cm-raminafe de conlecrated plaih vid de emana¬tion of deir herefy.l)e ihtccnd puniflmient is occafioned byits being firuare ’pon de \tty edge of hell: forde phfh is all laid vid great flags of iron, and jjplates of brafs which are ftrongly heated, byde force of/ de great fires, at phich de/here- jticks are ro.fling one another ’pon fpits, dat j*tis great torment to valk ’pon dein. Youknow phtn you vill throw off your broguesby de fire-shide at night, and let your barefoots ’pon de flqne in de harth—He vill bevery shore,—ah, wod’ent he r—By my shoul,yon is five hundred times as lore as dat. Or,A you wou’d make a truly experiment of de ,cing, take a girdle and put her on de fire£iliL fire be molt ted hot, den fet her down ,and( 11 )and clap your bare arfe ’pon her, dat vill be anearer reJ'en\Wai)ce of her 0.111 ; but vill notcojne up to her yet. 1 know it ish a cuihio-mary ting' vid us Catho’s to provide againliour dear departed -friends fu fit ring difh tor¬ment, by putting a pair of new brogues ’ponder cush in de coffin : v hich I do confeshmay do sham fervice, (!at ish, if dty take careto pay de pried veil : For he- may pray demout before de brogue be bum, but if not, dedevil a final! pot a toe he viil fignify ! For youknow, if he flay !org in, de foie of de brogueviil foon be t urn. and den fat better vill he be ?jit ish better to give de price of de brogue it-shelf to de pried, and tie vill pray dem outsho much former den de brogue vill la ft.But de'turd and greateft puniihment of itiih a great big biack ugly devil of a vomans,dat ftands dere vid an iron flail and (he’s betrashing dem thro’ all de plalh in a moft terri-jble manner : And fat ever part of de bodyvas guilty of de shin, she vilj be trafiting ’portIdat very part—If he vash drunkennefs norluttony, she vill be trashing ’pun de belly,f he vafli teeving, she vill come upon deirngers vid Iter long flail, till flie viil break allfjher nuckie again, and if he vash adultery-nor fornication ; ah, ah, ah ! you may gueislyourshelves who will get his payment found'y.(tin short, she viil be trashing and trashing, tillfde devil a bit. of flefli vill die leave ’pon yourbone, and bey vill be roaring and shouting, andsurfing ceir friends, dat vili give noting to dedergy to pray dem out of dat torment.Now( 12 )Now my friends, you all know .yell enough,de piiefi hatha difp; ns king power over defetorments, fen he pie oes. ciat Kvh. if he’s p^idfor him; but by my th. u! not die : toi togrant absholutku vnicut payaienr, wou’d bequite overturn dc shurch ; iio de main pillarflat shupports her, nay, hish de very fcunda--tion ’pon which she is build.i link now, my iriends, 1 have prove to youdat dere ish really luch a piasn aa Purgatory ;and dat de shorrls ot all our iriends ueparr dishHit, are dere, foveil as dish perlon now deceas.In de shecond plash, l have delcribed Purga¬tory to you, and turdly I have shewn you piiatterrible tings your friends are buffering dere,and dat I myshelf, as being a prieft in dishparish, have a power of releafing any one fromdefe torments—if I am paid for trim.Who den among you vill give a groat tohave dish man's shcul out of Purgatory. Coine dyou mens dere—Veil—dcre ish one groat—make hafle, you are very flow.Veil dere is i, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 7, 8, 9, 10 :ten groat Vill no boilies more give ? Vash dish man’s shoal worth no more denten groat f Aue aue, aue, a poor ftory in¬deed ! Phat Phelemy, vill you give noting,nor you furlogh. arra you devils, are younot ail his iwelations?—Come, you vomansdere, give money, nor yarn, nor butter, norflax, nor fomething. Come, Varrid Shane,Anna and Shuga anti all of you. Fat de De¬vil are you doing ? Fat, no more groats—Veil,pho vill give tree pence ? Very veil} Vid no~ body( *3 )body more give tree pence ? Pho vill givetwo pence ? Fat, vill no body more give twopence? Pno vi’l give one penny itshelf ? Not onepenny more to be got among )ou? Ah ah,you are a pack of hard hearted vicked devils !and me preachrn sho long, and sho good ashannon to you. dat vou never did hear be¬fore, dat coft me a whole quarter of .year inji fludying him for de good of your shouls: Andyou vtll give noting for de shupport of myIi ocoatawe JoTeph Usher of Mackrelin for dish’pon my back, and depended ’pon dish; day for getting de money, but de devil a on,; half, nor one quarter I’ll get yet ; phich if Ido not immediately, he viti put me ’pon con¬finement in de county goal : And den you de-viis, you shee fat vill become of your shouls.Now you dat have got not the full groats,rtwash better for you to have given noting atlajl ; for de punishment of your friends vill[K»t only be fcorching and fcorching, icc. butlhaiving and quartering', and tearing in pieces.or you dat give tr.:e pence, i Viil pray t!velarters of ypur^ frn-nd out. and leave t’ocieyQun-ttr in for t'odt-r penny And you dac?!ve but van penny, [ vili pray one quarter out,L ou-cr tree thali remain in torment-as before.->o you dat have no money, borrow you devils3 or row and mike up de idl groat.G/or'a PaJrl“ SprUko rj'Sbar.to Amen.tt me (hue dere ifn, . . - \iy niy Amul, he valh no bad collecoV.'Ug after all that now. ( Afide.the*$•4*'$'■$*4'- 4*$“$* $*The Confecration of a Murderer of Heretick Prin¬ces ; ufed by the ‘Jefuits in P.oijh countries.r¥~1 HOSE t!iat are counted hereticks,'bvPaplfts, are by law and right deprived ofall they have, the Pope can authorize the or¬thodox members of the church, i 'e. his ownfubje£ts, to take poll ffion ; and w'hatev(jrmeans are neceflfary thereunto, he can legiti¬mate and make lawful, as poifoning, aff.idi•nating, blowing up with gun-powder, &c. Itis an approved thing among them, a cafe;de!i- -Iterately determined by the infa iible head of the |church,, that the killing of kings and queens, rexcommunicated by the Pope, is no murder,nay that it is meritorious to dtdroy hereticks, ji\nd, as^ they .encourage the murder ofj■ifuch princes as they call hereticks, fo theyhave a ioltmn form ot preparing an a (Tallinfor his undertaking.The perfon defigned for the work is fecret-]y introduced into the meuitary or oratory-:there a knife wrapped up in linen is takenout of an ivory caie, marked all round with,various charadtrs. Together with an Agnus;Dei. Upon this, as it is drawn out of theiheath, they.drop holy water, and confecrat-ed coral beads upon the bait granting an in¬dulgence of delivering as many fouls out ohpurgatory, as he (hall give wounds to th;prince;\)( '5prince, 'whom they defign to aflfaflinate : Thenthey put the knife into the hand of the parri¬cide, recommending it in ^hele v/ords, “ EleftSon of God, take this fword of Jephthah, thefword of Samfon, the fword of David, withwhich he cut off Goliah’s head, the fword ofGideon the fword of Judith, the fword of theMaccabees, the fword of the Pope, by whichhe has delivered himfelf from the hands ofprinces, having ipilt-very much blood in tbebrdominions, Go and be prudently courageous,-may God ftrengthen thy arm ” This beingdone, they all fall down upon their knees,and the chief of them pronounces this exor-cifm : “ Be prefent ye cherubim, be prefent yeferaphim, ye thrones, ye powers, be prefent,ye holy angels-, and fill this bleffed veffel withperpetual glory, and every day offer him thecrown of the bleffed Virgin Mary, of the ho¬ly patriarchs and martyrs ; he is no longer amember of our cononunion but yours ; Andthou. O God. who art terrible and invincible,and who in the meditory half put it into hisheart to dtifroy a tyrant and heretick, andconffi jiis crown on a ctthohc king, ftrengt'ti-en, we befeech thee, his lianils and increafe.his courage, that he may aceomplilh his wall,f.ive him an Omnipotent mail, wliereby he maye.eape the. hands of thoje who would appre-hcnd iiim, give him wings, by which his ho¬ly members may cfcape the endeavours ofbarbarous betrayers, pour into ids foul thvImanng rays, by which his body, withouttear, in, midit of dangers and tortures,m a v( i6 )may be” animated with joy and exuItation.,iAfter this exorcifm, the parricide is broughtbefore the altar over which is painted thehiftory of Jaques Clement, a Dominicanmonk, with the images of angels protectinghim, and carrying him to heaven This theJefuits fhew him, and withal. ] relent him anheavenly crown, faying. “ Regard, O Lord,this thin® arm, and the executor of thy juftice.kt all thy faints arife and give him place.”After thefe ceremonies, four Jefuits are tie- ,pn'ed to tc.U with the parricide alone, thefe,during their difeourfe, are wont often to fay,that there appears in him a divine fort ofbrightnefs, by the radiancy of which they aremoved to kifs his hands and feet, and that heno longer Lems to them to be a man, but aheavenly faint ; they pretend alfo to envy thegreat glory and bleffednefs to which he is nowadvanced, fighing and Lying, *'• Would to 1God I had been c ho fen in thy room, that be¬ing delivered from the punifhment of Purga- -jtory, l might have gone directly to p.iradife.”But, if he whom they judge proper to perpe- |trate the murder be backward and reluftmt,then they either forca him to make fuch a vow ~by nightly bugbears, and mondrous fpedres,or animate and introduce him to the enter*prize, by contriving apparitions of the V!rgmMary, or angels, or other faints, and fome- jtimes of fgnaiius and his followers.FINIS.