iN ACCOUNT OFSeveral Remarkable EarthquakesWHICH HAVE HAPPENED-INVarious Quarters of the World;(With the Direful Confequences that have accruedI from thofe Dreadful Convulfions of Nature.jOccafionai Shocks of which, have been felt inScotland, within thefe thirteen years. Two farecently, as the months of January and Febru-ary, 1799.COLLECTED FHOM GOO*) AUTHORITIES.of swrumjnG L A S G O W. SUjR IN TED BY J. & M. ROBERTSO??,SADTMARRET, 1800.{ 2 )ACCOUNT OF SEVERALRemarkable Earthquakes, &c. ,rR’.rciier’s Account <jf the Earthquake jn Calabr-siti t6jS-ON the 24th of J-Iarch, we launched (hifma!l boat) from the harbour of Medina ilJSicily, and arrived the fame day at the promontory of Pelorus. Our deftinotion for .'he city oSuphenVta in Calabria; but on account of th«weatheft we were obliged to continue three dayat Pelorus. At length, wearied with the delay, w<refolved to profecute our voyage; and altthouglthe fea feetried more than ufually agitated, yet w<ventured forward The gulpb erfCharybdis, whiefwe approached, feemeci Whirled round in fuch .5manner as to form a vaft hollow, verging to :paint in the centre. Proceeding onward, anraturning my eyes to Mount ./Etna, I few it canforth large volumes of fmofce, of a mountainousfi2^, which entirely covered the ifland, and blot¬ted out even the fhores from my view- ihis, to¬gether with the dreadful noife, and the fulphure-cus feepcli, which was ftrongly perceived, filletREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. , 3tt.e with apprehenfions that fome more dreadfulcalamity was impending. The fra itfdf feemedto wear a very unufual appearance; thofe whohave feen a lake in a violent fhower of rain allcovered over with bubbles, will have fome idea ofits agitations., My furprife was full increafed bythe calmnefs and' ferenity of the weather; not abreeze, not a cloud, which might be fuppcfed toput all natur£ thus into motion. I thereforewarned my companion, that an earthquake wasapproaching, and, after fome time, making forthe Ihore with ail poiTibie diligence, we landed atTtopiea. But we had fcarce arrived at the Jefuitscollege in that city, when our ears were ft minedwith an horrid found, refembling that of an infi¬nite number of chariots driven fiercely forward,the wheels rattling and the thongs cracking. Soonafter this, a moft dreadful earthquake enfued; fothat the whole track upon which we Hood fremedto vibrate, as if we were in the fcale of a balancethat continued waving. This, motion, however,foon grew more violent; and being no longer ableto keep my legs, I was thrown proftrate upon theground. After Tome time, finding that i * jmain-ed unhurt amidft the general concufliori, { reibiv-ed to venture for fafety; and running as faft as Icould, reached the fhore. I did not fearch longhere, till I found the boat in which I had landed,3.nd my companions alto. Leaving this feat ofiefolation, we profrcuted our voyage along the.coaft, and the next day came to Rochc-tta, wherewe landed, although the earth ftiii continued inviolent agitation. But we were fcarce arrived atcur inn, when we were once more obliged to re¬turn to our boat; an<ji in about half an hour wefaw the greateft part of the town, and the irin atwhich we had fet up, dafhed to the ground, and1^  burying4 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.Luryiug all its inhabitants beneath its ruins. Prtfcing onward in our little vefTei, we at lengtlanded at Lapizium, a caftle mid-way betweeTropwa aik! Ettphemia the city to which we we*b< tmd. Here, wherever 1 turned ifly eyes, ticttung %'t fcenes cf ruin and horror appeared; towrand catties leveiied to the ground; Strombolthough at fixty miles diflance, belching fortdiutnes in an unufual manner, and with a nobwhich I could diftinfcly hear. But my attentiowas quickly turned fjom more remote to contiguoits danger. The rumbling found cf an approachxng earthquake, which by this time we were growacquainted, w'ith, alarmed us for the confequence!it every moment teemed to grow louder, and tapproach more near. .The place on which wflood now began to fhlrlce nioft dreadfully; lthat, being unable to (band, my companions amf caught hold of whatever flirub grew next inand fupperted ourfelves in that manner. Aftefomepime, the violent paroxy fm ceafing, w? agaiToed, up, in order to profecute our voyage tEuphemia, which lay within Ijghk In the mea-time, while we were preparing for this purpofeI turned my eyes towards the city, but could fe>only a frightful dark cloud, that feemed to relupon the place. This the more furprifed us, athe weather was fo very ferene. We waitedtherefbre, till the cloud was palled aw*ay; theiturning to look, for the city, it was totally funkand nothing but a difmal and putrid lake v'as tcde feen where it flood.AccouikMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. cAccount of the Earthquake that happened tr:Jamaica, in 1692.IN 1692, an Earthquake happened in Jamaira —In two minutes, it jdeftroyed the town of PertRoyal, at that time the capital of the ifiand •, andunk the houfes in a gulph 40 fathoms deep. Itwas attended with an hollow rumbling r.oife likehat of thunder: the ftreets rofe like the waves of■h^fea; firft lifting up the houfes, and then im *mediately throwing them down into deep pits.All the wells discharged their waters with the molt,'iolent agitation. The fea hurft over its bounds,»nd deluged all that flood in its way. The failures>f the earth were in fome places fo great, that one">f the ftreets appeared twice as broad uc former!v»in many places It opened and clofed again, a;ul:cntinued this agitation,for fome time. Of rhefetOpenings, great.numbers might be feen at oface,in foq^e of them, the people were fwallowed uit once; in others, the earth caught them by th1 ruddle, and crufhed them to deat • 5 while ■others-‘■note fortunate, were fwallowecl up in one cltaftn Jmd thrown out alive by another. Other chafirswere large enough to fwailow up the whole■treets; and others, ftill more formbaWe, fjromed ■\ip imnrenfe quantities of water drowning fuch as:he earthquake had fpared. Ti.e whole was at-.ended with flenches and offrnfwe fmells, tlirnoife of falling fnountains at a diftance, S<c.; anihe fky, in a minute's rime, was turned dull andeddifh, like a flowing oven. Vrt as great a luf-erer a* Fort-Royal was, more heufes weiede f[landing therein than on the whole ifia.mi befsdesScarce a planting-houfe, or fugar-hglftfe, vns fe{Vftanding in ail Jamaica. A great part of them..Htx (ti6 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,{wallowed up, houfes, people, trees and all, Ir»..ac gap: in lieu of which, afterwards appearedgreat pools of water ; which, when dried up, lefinothing but fand, without any mark thrkever treeOr'pWt had grown thereon. The /hock was fcviolent, that it threw people down on their kneesor their faces as they were running about for /bel¬ter. Several houfes were fhuilled fome yardscut of their places, and yet continued /landing.One Hopkins had his plantation removed half amile from the place where it {food, without auyconfiderable alteration. All the wells in the‘iiland, as well as thofe of Port-Royal, from onefathom to fix or feven deep, threw their water utat the top with great violence. Above 12 milesfrom the fea, the earth gaped and fpouted out,with a prodigious force, vaft quantities of waterinto the air: yet the greateft violences were amongthe mountains and rocks; and it is a general o-pinion, that the nearer the mountains, the great¬er the (hock, and the caufe thereof lay amongthem. Moftrof the rivers were flopped up for 24hours by the falling of the mountains; till fwell-ing up, they made themfelves. new tracks andchannels; tearing up, in their palfage, trees, &c.After the great ibock, thofe people who efcapedgot on board fhips in tbe harbour, where many1continued above two months; the /hocks all thattime being fo violent, and coming fo thick, fome-times two or three in an hour, accompanied withfrightful noifes like a ru/hing wind, or a hollowrumbling thunder, with brimftone-blafis, that,they durft not come afiiore. The confequence ofl-e earthquake was a general fichnefs, from ther vapours belched forth, which fweptawayabove 3000 pferfons.Oflii!. 1. '' 1 ! ^ ill' REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES^ 7Of the Earthquake in Sieily, in 1693.IN 1693, an earthquake happened in.Sicily*which may juftly be accounted one cf the ntoftterrible of which we have any account. It {book• the whole iflard: and not only that, but Naplesand Malta fhared in the {heck It was impoffible;for any body in this country to keep on their legsi on the dancing earth j nay, thofe that lay on thei ground were toffed from fide to fide as on a rol¬ling billow : high walls leaped from their founda-■ tions feveral paces, &c. The mifehief it did is1 amazing; almeft all the,buildings in the ecuntries. were thrown down, ritty-iour rittes oild. townsji befide an incredible number of villages, were er-' ther deftroyed or greatly damaged. Wc fhall on-l ly inftance the fate of Catania, one of the moil• famous, ancient, and flourdhing cities in thekingdom : the rcfirfence of feveral monarchs, and: an univerfuy. This once famous city had thegreateft (hare in the tragedy. Father Anthony< Serrovita, being on his wray thither, and at the: diftance of a few miles, obferved a black cloudlike night hovering over the city; and there aro/et from the mouth of Mcntgibello great fpires of! flame,, which fpread all around. 'I’be fea all of af fudden began to roar and rife in billows, and therewas a blow, as if all the artillery in the wrojld hads been at once difeharged. The birds flew about: aftoniftved; the cattle ki the fields ran crying,< &c. His and his companions horfes (topped thort,: trembling; fo that they were forced to alight.They were no fooner off, but they were liftedfrom the ground above two palms, when callinghis eyes towards Cdtania, he with amazement fa7/nothing but a thick cloud of dull in tbs air. Tin's8 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,was £?ie fcene of their calamity, for of the magni¬ficent Catania, there was not the ieaft footlfep to'be feeu. S. Bonajutus aiTuresxus, that of litycoinhabitants, 18000 perifijed tlterein.This and the two preceding accounts are takenfrom Eacvdopsedia Biitannica 3d Editn. vcl. 6—EAR.\An Account of the great Earthquake, that hap¬pened at Lifbon, Nov. ill 1755.< r'|HHERE never was a finer morning feenthan the firft of November'(1755) j thefan fhone out in its full lultre; the whole face ofthe Iky v^s perfcdlly ferene and dear, and not.the lea'f fignal or warning of that approaching e-vent, which has made this once’fiourifhing, f>pu-lent, a!id populous city a fcene of the utmolt hor-ror and dtfolation, except only fuch as ferved toalarm, but fcarcely left a moment’s time to fly'from the general deftruclion.It was on the morning of this fatal day, be¬tween the .hours of nine and ten, that I was fatdown in my apartment, jult finifiling a letter,when the papers and table I was writing on be¬gan tcltremble with a gentle motion, which ratherfurprized me, as I could not perceive a breath ofwind ftifring; wLilft I was reflecting wuth myfelfwhat this could be owing to, but without havingthe leait appreherfion of the teal caufe, the wholefiottfe began to lhake from the very foundatioit,which at firft I imputed to the rattling: cf feveralCi aches in the mainftreet, whicli ufually paiEedthat way, at this time, from Belem to the palace;REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. pbut on hearkening more attentively, I was foOttundeceived, as I found it was owing to a ftrangsfrightful kind of noife under ground, refemblingthe hollow diftatrt rumbling of thunder: all thispafTed in lefs than a minute', and I mule confefs Imow began to be alarmed, as it naturally occurredto me, that this noife« might poJJrbly be the fore¬runner of an earthquake, as one I remembered,which had happened about fix or feven years ago,'in the illand of Madeira-, commenced in the famemanner,' though it did little or no damage,4 Upon this I thjew down my pen, and Hartcdupon my feet, remaining a moment in fufpence,whether I Ihcuid day in the apartment, ^r runinto the Itreet, as the danger in both "placesfeemed equal, and ftill flattering myfelf that thistremor might produce no other eifecli than fuchinconfiderabie.ones as had been felt at Madeira ;but in a moment I was roufed from my dream,being infuntlv (tunned with a molt horrid crafn,as if every edifice in the city had tumbled downat once. The houfe I was in Itiook with fuchviolence, that the upper dories immediately fell,and though my apartrr^* t (’which was the fird ~floor) did not then (hare the fame fate, yet everything was thrown out of its place in 'fuen a man¬ner, that if was with no (mall difficulty I kept myfeet, and expected nothing lefs than to be fooncrudied to death, as the wads continued rockingto and fro in the frightfulled manner, opening infeveral places, large dones falling down on everyJ fide from the cracks, and tfheyends cf mod-of therafters darting out from the roof. To add to thisterrifying ficene, the Iky in a moment became fogloomy, that 1 could now diftmgutfh no particu¬lar objects, it was an Egyptian darknefs indeed,fuch as might be felt; owing, no doubt, to them ‘REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.prodigious clouds of duft and lime, raifed fromfo violent a concuffion, and as fonie reported, to•ftrlphurecus exhalations, but this I cannot affirm;however, it is certain I found myfeif almoft chgak-<ed for near ten minutes.* As foon as tbg gloom began to difperfe, andthe violence of tf&. Ihock febmed pretty much a-bateq, the firft object I perceived in the room wasjx woman fitting on the lloor, with ah infant inher arms, all covered with duft, pale and trem¬bling; I alked her how flie got hither: but hercon Item ation was fo great that >;he could give meno account of h'er efcape, I fuppofe, that whenthe tremor lirit began, fire ran out of her ownhoufe, and finding herfelf in fuch imminent dan¬ger from the falling of ftones, retired into thedoor of mine, which "dmoft contiguous toher’s, for fhelter, and when the fluKk inefeafed,which filled the door with duft and rubbilh, ranup ft*»irs into my apartment, which was then o-pen: be it as it might,^this vvas no time for curi-•ofity. I remember the poor creature alked me,in the ufmoft agony, if I did not think that the ,world was at an end ; at the fame time fhe com¬plained of being choaked, and begged for God’sfake I would procure her a little drink; upon this .I went to a clofet where I 'kept a large jar withwater (v*hich you know is fometimes a prettyfcarce commodity in Lifbon) but finding it brokenin pieces, I told her flie nut ft not now think ofquenching her thrift, but faring her life, as thehoufe was juft failing on our heads, and if a fecondIhock came, would certainly bury us both ; I badeher take hold of mv arm, and that I would endea¬vour to bring her into fome place of fecurity.‘ I fiiall always look upon it as a particular pro¬vidence, that I happened on this occafion to beundreiTed,REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES, itunikcff^d, for had I dreded myfrlf, as I propofedj,^hen I got out of bed, in order to breakfaft witha friend, I fhould, in all probability, have raninto the ftreet at the beginfinig of the fliock, asthe reft of the people in the houfe did, and con-fequsntly have had my brains dafned out, as everyone of them had ; however, the imminent dangerI was in did not hinder me from confidering thatjrry !;^fent drafs, only a gown and llippers’, wouldrender my getting over the ruins almoft impradfi-cable: I had, therefore, ftill prefence of mind c-nough left to put on a pair of fhoes and a coat,the firft that came in my way, which was everything I fared, and in this drefs I hurried downflairs, the woman with me, holding by my afrit,and made d«'e£lly to that end of the ftreet that o-pens to the Tagus, but finding the paffage this■way entirely blocked up with the fallen houfes t®the height of their fecond ftories, I turned backto the other end which led into the mala ftreer(the common thoroughfare to the palace) and hav¬ing helped the woman over a vaft heap of ruins,with no Email hazard to my own life, juft as wewere going into the ftreet, as there was one partI could not well climb over without the affiftanceof my hands, as well as feet, I defired her to letgo her hold, which die did, remaining two or threefeet behind me, at which time there fell a vaftftone, from a tottering wail, and crufhed both her| and the child in pieces: fo difmal a fpeftacle at1 any other time would have affe£led me in thel htgheft degree, but the dread I was in of fharing| the fame fate myfelf, and the many inftances ofth^ fame kind which prefented tliemfeh'es all a-round, were too (hocking to make me dwell a mo¬ment on this fingle object, *‘ I had now a lortg narrow ftreet to pafs, withthe-3,2 IR'EMATilvABlB EARTHQUAKES. _she honies on f*ch fide four or five {'tones hi^hvall very old, tire greater part already thrown do\rn.t■sor continually falling, and threatening the pafien--Ters with mevitahle death at every ftey, numbersirfwhomday killed, before me, or what I thought-var more deplorabl*—fo bruifed and wounded that■rhev could rft ftir to help themfelves. For myfowh part, as ddfuiftion appeared to m^unavoid-;able.-^05.1y wiflted I might be made an er,$» of atonce, and not hate mv limbs broken, in which^cafe I could exp-ft nothing elfe but to be .left uponthe fpot, lingering in mifery, like mdb poor un¬happy wretches, without receiving the lead iuc-conr from any perfon. ' . , . „ ,k felf-prefervation, however, is the nrtt law otnature,' there fad thoughts did not fo »r prevail, asto make me totally defpair. I proceeded on as fait-as i conveniently could, though with the utmoitcaution, and having at length got clear of thishorrid pafiage, I found tnyfelf fafe and unhurt m■;:.he large onen fpace before St. Paul’s church,which Ipd been thrown down a few minutes be- (fore, and buried a great part of the congregation,that was generally pretty numerous, tins being-eckcmvl one of the moft populous pandits in Ln-«&on. Here I itood feme time, confidenng what ,X fhould do, and not thinking myfelf fate m thist-Ttuarion, I came to the refolufi'n of climbing o-wer the ruins of the weft end of the church, in.order to get to the river fide, that J might oe te-gneved, as far as poffinle, from the tottering houf-tc, in cafe of a ft:cond ihock. , ,f This, with feme dhTrcultv, I accemphfhed, andtiere I round a prodigious concou ie ot peop e, oboth fexes, and of ail ranks and conditions, a-,tfnonir whom I obferved fame of the principal can-.nor.6° of the patnarchal church, m their purpleREM A.RKABLE E ARTHQJ7A KES. i $'•Tf^ss ami rochets, as thefe all in the habit of: bilhops; fevcsral priefts who had run from the al¬tars in their faccrdotal vdlments in the njidvt oftheir celebrating maiV, ladies half drefled, andfeme without (hoes ; all thefe, whom their mutualdangers had here aflernbled as to a place of fa(ety}were on their knees at praters, with the terrors ofdeath in their countenances, every one ftriking hisbreaft, and crying out inceffantly, A fife record: atneo Diet.‘ In the midft of our devotions, the fecond greatf/iock carne on, little lefs violent than the firft, atuicompleted the ruin of thofe buildings which hadbeen already much ihiattered. The confternationsiow became io univerial, that the Qirieks and cries-of Miferecordia could be datin&ly heard from thetop of St. Caiherine’s hill at a confiderable dif-tance off, whither a vail number of people hadlike wife retreated ; at the fame time we could hearthe fall of the parilh chure's- there, whereby manyperfons were killed cn the fpot, and others mor¬tally wounded. You may judge of the force ofthis fnock, when 1 inform you, it wras fo violent,that I could fcarce keep on my knees, but it wasattended wdth fome circumstances (till more dread¬ful than-the former—On a fudden I heard a gen¬era! outcry, « The fea is coming in, we (hall be allloft.’—Upon this, turning my eyes towards the riv¬er, which in that phee is near four miles broad,I could perceive it heaving and fwelling in a,molt.unaccountable marrner, as no wind, was Hiring : inan inftant there appeared at forrie fmuU dlffonce,a large body of*water, rifing like a mountain; itcame on foami/tg and roaring; and ruffted towardsthe fliore with fuch impetuohey, that we all im¬mediately ran for our lives as fad as podible ; ma¬ny were actually fwept away, and the icll abovetheir14 remarkable earthquakes*their want hi water at a good difhnce from the;anks* Ff my own part, I had the narrowed e-icape, ant. ihould certainly have been loft, had fnot grafped a large beam that lay on the ground,ti.I the water returned to its channel, which it didaimed at the fame indant, with equal rapidity.As there now appeared at lead as much dangerfrom the fea as the land, and I fcarce knew whe¬ther to retire for flicker, I took a Bidden reiolu-non ol returning back with my clothes all drop¬ping, to the area of St. Paul’s: here I flood fometime, and obferved the fliips tumbling and triflugabout, as in a violent dorm . fome had broken theirs' cables, and were carried to the other fide of thei-agns others were w! Tied round with incredibleIwiltnefs ; feveral large boats were turned keel up¬wards ; and all this without any wind, which feem-cd the more adonifhing. It was at the time ofwnich lam now fpeaking, that the fine new quay,bunt cf rough marble, at an immenfe expenfe,was entirely fwallowed up, With ail the people onH, who had fled thither for fafety, and had reafonto think themfelves out of danger in fudi a place ;at the fame time a great number of boats andfmall veffcls, anchored near if (ad iikewife full ofpeople, who had retired thither for the fame pur-pofe) were all Iwaliowed up, as in a whirlpool, andnever more appeared.‘ Ibis lad dreadful incident I did not fee withmy own eyes, as it paded three or four done throwsfrom the fpot where I then was, but I had the ac¬count as here given from feveral maflers of fliips,.who were anchored within two or three hundredyards of the quay, and faw the whole cataflroghe. ■One of them in particular informed me, that whenthv. iecond fhock came on, he could perceive thewhole city waving backwards and forwards, liketheREMARKABLE EARTh'^UAKES. • $the fea when the wind firft begins M rife, that theagitation of the earth was fo great eveu under theriver, that it threw up his large anchor from themooring, which fwam, as he termed if., on thefurface of the water; that immediately upon thisextraordinary concuffion, the river rofe at oncenear twenty feet, and in a moment f ubfided; atwinch in ft ant he faw the quay, with the wholeconcourfe of people upon it, (Ink down, and att - fame time every one of the boats and vefiebjUnit were near it were drawn into the cavity, whichhe fuppofes mftamiy dofed upon them, inafhjuchas not the leaft ftgn of a wreck was ever feen af¬terwards. This account you may give full creditt j,/or as totthe Iofs of the vefi'els, it is confirm¬ed by every body; and with regard to the ouay, Iwent myfelf a few days after, to convince mvfelfoi the trutn, and could nor find even the ruins ofa p.ace, where I had taken fo many agreeable walks,as tms was the common rendezvous of the factoryin me cool of the evening. I found it nil deep.an.d ‘I1 fon‘e PaK8 fcarcely to be fathomed.1 ms is the only place I could learn which wasfwalloved up m or about I^ibon, though 1 fawmany large cracks and figures in different parts,“rid OIie 0,:ld phenomenon i muft not omit, whichwas communicated m me by a friend who had ahoute' and wine-cellars on the other fide of the riv.et, viz. ti.at the dwelling-houfe being firft terriblyS6"’ W/1!,d> made a,: the family run 6u.t, thereprefen ly fell down a vaft high rock near it, thatupon this the mer rofe and fubfided in the man.ncr Jready mentioned, and immediately a greatnumber of fmali fiffures appeared in feveral conti-guous pieces or ground, whence there fronted outt \]aT °*uantity hue white fand,to a prodigious height.I had1$ REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.I had not been long in the area of St. Paul’s,when-1 felt the third ffiock, which though fome-wliat lefs violent than the two former, the fearulhed in again, and retired with the fame lapidi-ty, and I remained up to my knees in water, thd*I had gotten upon a final] eminence at fome dis¬tance from the river, with the ruins of feveral in-terveening Jioufes to break its force. At this timeI ook notice the waters retired Co impetuoufly, thatfo ne ve&is were left quite dry, which rode in ft:*ve> fathom water: the river thus continued alter¬nately rufhing on and retiring feveral times toge¬ther in fuch fort, that it was juftiy dreaded Lifbonwould new meet the fame fate, which a few years .ago had Befallen the city of * Lima.c Perhaps you may think the prefent dolefulfubjechhcre concluded j but, alas ! the horrors ofthe firft of November, are fufficient to fill a vo-' lume. As foon as it grew dark, another feene pre-fented itfelf little lefs fhockiiig tlian thofe alreadydeferibed-—the whole city appeared in a blaze,which was fo bright that I could eafily fee to readby it. It may be faid without any exaggeration,it was* on fire at ieatl in a hundred dr!ament placesat once, and thus continued burnmgfor fix daystogether, without intevmifiion, or the leait at¬tempt being made to ftop its pfogrefs.‘ I could never learn, that this terrible,fire wasowing to any fubterraneous eruption, as feme re¬ported, hut to three caufes, which ail concurringat the fame time, will naturally acVount for theprodigious bavock it made; the firft 6t Novemberbeing.All Saints Day, a high feftival among thePortrrguefe, every altar in every chute 1* and chap¬el (fome of which have mote than twenty) was il- *laminated with a number of wax tapers and lamps.REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 17; as cuftomary, thefe fettinp; fire to the curtains andI timber work that fell with the fitock, the confla-| g'ttion foon fpread to the neighbouring houfes,and being there joined with the fires in the kitch¬en chimnics, increafcd to fuch a degree, that itmight eafily have deftroyed the whole city, thoughno other caufe had concurred, efpecialy as it metwith no interruption.‘But what would appear incredible to you, werethe fa£t lefa public and notorious, k, that a gangof hardened villains, who had been confined, andgot out of prifon when the wall fell, at the firftfhock, were bufdy employed in fetting fire to thofebuildings, which flood fome chance of efcapingthe general deftruftion.‘ The fire, by feme means or other, may be laidto have deftroyed the whole city, .at leafl everything that was grand or valuable in k j. and thedamage on this cccafion is not to be eflima^ed.‘ 'fbe whole number of persons that pAifhed,including thofe who were burnt, or a&crwardscruflied to death whilfl digging in the ruins, isfuppofed, in the iowefl calculation, to amount tomore than furty thouftind ; and though tjie damagein other refpedls cannot b&computed, yet vou mayform iome idea of it, when I aflure you, that thisextenfive and opnlent city, is now nwhing but awaft heap of ruins, that the rich and poor’are atprefent upon a level, fome thoufands of familieswhich but the day befere had been eafy in theircircumitances, being now fcattered about in thefields, wanting every convenisncy of life, and find¬ing none able to relieve them.‘ A few days after the firll coniternation was o-ver, I ventured down into the city, by the faftftways I could pick out, to fee if there was a poffi-bdity of getting any tiling cent of my lodgings, but18 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.the ruins were now {o augmented by the late fire,that I was fo far from being able to dillinguiih theindividual fpot where the houfe iioad, that I couldnot even diftingui/ti the ftreet, amidll the moun¬tains of fronts and rubbiflr which rofe on everyfide. Some days after I ventured down again withfeveral porters, who, having long plied in thefeparts of the town, were well acquainted with theiituation of particular houfesj by their afliftance,I at laft difcovered the fpot j but was Icon con¬vinced, that to dig for any thing there, befides thedanger of fuch an attempt, would never aniwerthe expence.‘ On both the times when I attempted to makethis fruitlefs fearch, efpecially the hrfc, thefe cameinch an intolerable (tench from the dead bodies,that I was ready to faint away, and though it didnot feem fb great this laft time, yet it had nearlybeen more fatal to me, as I contracted a fever byit, but of which, God be praifed, I (bon got hebetter. However, this made me fo cautious forthe future, that I avoided paditig near certain pla¬ces, where the (tench was fo exceffive that peoplebegan to dread an infection : a gentleman told me,that going into the town a few days after theearthquake, he faw feveral bodies lying in theftreets, fome horribly mangled, as he fuppokd bya the dogs, others half burnt, fome'quite roafted jand that in certain places, particularly near thedoors of churches, they Ly in vaft heaps piled oneupon another.5Extracted from a Volume of Letters, puliftieda few years ago by the Reverend Mr. Davy—SeeGregory’s Economy cf Nature vol. and. page 39b,t° 375 incluiive, fecond edition.*EARTH-REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 19EARTHQUAKES, IN CALABRIA ANDSICILY, IN 1783.THE year 1783 was fatally marked by the de-folation of fome of the mod fertile, modbeautiful, and mofi celebrated provinces of Europe.I ne two Calabrias, with a part of Sicily, weredoomed to be a feene of the moft tremenduous,and the moft fatal earthquakes that ever wereknown, even in thofe volcanic regions. The firft(hock happened about noon, on the hfth of Febru¬ary, and was fo violent as to involve almoft thewhole of Calabria in ruin. This was but the com¬mencement of a fuccefiion of earthquakes, whichbeginning from the city of Aimntea, on the coaftof the Tyrrhene fea, proceeded along the wefterncoaft to Cape Spartivento, and up the eaftern asfar as Cape D'Alice ; during the whole of whichfpace not a town was left undeftroyed.During two years repeated fhocks continued toagitate the affrighted minds of the inhabitants ofCalabria and Sicily, but the principal mifebiefs *-rofe in the months of February and March in thefirft year. For feveral months the earth continu¬ed in an uuceafing tremor, which at certain inter¬vals increafed to violent fhocks, Tome of whichwere beyond defeription dreadful. Thefe fhockswere fometimes horizontal, whirling like a vortex,and fometimes by pulfations, or beating from thebottom upwards, and were at times fo violent tha,tthe heads of the largcft frees almoft touched theground on e;thei#fide. The rains, during a greatpart of the time, were continual and violent, oft¬en accompanied with iijhtning, and furious gullsof wind. All that part of Calabria, which laybetween tlje ^bth and 39th degrees afTuificd a newappear-3o REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,appearance, homes, churches, towns, dries, andvillages were buried in one promifcuous ruin.Mountains were detached from their foundations,and carried to a conedetable diftance. Rivers dif-appeared from their beds, and again returned and7overflowed the adjacent country. Streams of wa¬ter fuddenfy gufhed out of the ground, and fprangto a contiderable height. Large pieces of the fur-face of the plain, fevcral acres in extent, were car¬ried five hundred feet from their former Etuationdown into the bed of the river, and left ftandingat nearly the diftance of a^mile, furrounded bylarge plantations of olive and mulberry trees, andcorn growing as well upon them as upon the groundfrom which they were fepanted. Amicflt thefefeenes of devallation, the efcaprs of fome of theunhappy fufTerers is extremely wonderful. Someof the inhabitants of houses which were thrownto a conflderahiS diftance, were dug up from theirririns unhurt. But rhefe inftances were few, andthofe who were fo fortunate as to preferve theirlives in fuch fituations, were content to purchdee^iftence at the espence of broken limbs and themofl dreadful contuftons.During this salami tons feme, it is impoflihle toconceive the horrors and wfetchednefs of the tan-happy inhabitants. The jaws of death we" open¬ed to fwallov them up, ruin had feized a') theirp^fteUions, and thofe dear covtecriens to whichthey might have looked for confolation in tlieir for-rows, were for ever buried in the merciltfs abyfs.AH was ruin and defolation. Every countenance:indicated ihe extremity of afflifa-m and defpair,and the whole country formed s wide feene of un.defcribable horror.One of the moft remarkable towns which wasdeftroyed Vas Cahd Luova, where the PrincetsGcracoREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES, aiGerace Grimaltli, with more than four thoufand<>f her fubjeds, periilred in the fame inftant. Aninhabitant happening to be cn the fummit of aneighbouring ' ill at the moment of the fliock, and, looking eamcftly-hack to the refidence of his fa¬mily, could fee no other remains of it than a whitecloud which proceeded from the ruins of the houf-cs. ■ iAt Bagnara, about tnrce thoufand perfonswere killed, and not fewer at Radicina and Palma.At Terra Nuova four thoufand four hundred per-iiiied, anc rather more at Semniari. The inhabi¬tants of Scilla efcaped from their houfes cn thecelebrated rock of that name, and with their prince,defcended to a little harbour at the foot of the hill,bur, in the cotirfe of the night, a ftupenduouswave, which is faid to have been driven threemiles over land, on its return fwept awav the Un¬fortunate pripce, with two thoufand four hundredano feventy-tiiree of his fabjeds. It is computedthat not lefs than forty thoufand perfons perifhedby this cafchquake. *Greg. Econ. of Nature, vol.and. page 375 to 378 inchEARTHQAKES IN SCOTLAND.ALTHO this kingdom is happily free from thedreadful calamities experienced in many o-ther parts of -the world, from thefe terrible con-vulfions of nature, yet occauonal Ihocks of earth¬quakes have been felt in Scotland, within thefe 1 ?war™, Cr«ch, Ef,. in’ hi, ,hM fe,?rto ^ir John Sinclair, annexed to the Statiftical Ac-count of Edinburgh, (Vol. VI. p. 624.) among o-t .er phylieal phenomena^ enumerates the follow-22 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,ing: Upon the 16th June, i7^> a fliocr'.'of an earthquake was felt at Whitehaven, in Cum¬berland, which extended to the file of Man andDublin, and was alfoTelt in the S. W. parts of"Scotland. Upon the nth of Aug. 1786, a veryalarming fhock of an earthquake was felt abouttwo o’clock A. M. in the N. of England, viz Nor*thumberland, Cumberland, and inScotlandj acrofsthe ifland, and as far N. as Argylldiire, and in allthefe places at the fame inftant of time, fhisfliock extended above 1^0 miles from S. to N. and10© from E. to W.—“ Upon the 25th Jan. 1787,the river Tiviot became fuddertly dry, and contin¬ued fo for 4 horns, and then flowed with its mu-al fulnefs." “On the 26th Jan. 1787, a fmartfhock of an earthquake Was felt in the parithes ofCampfie nnd Strathblane, to- miles N. of Glafrgbw, and about 10 A M. A rufij'ng noife washeard to precede the vhocti Jfom tlte S. E. inenight preceding this earthquake, a piece of groundne^ar Alloa, on which a mill wa$ built, fuddenlyfunk a foot and a half.?'—“ On Thurfday, 5t,iNov. 1789, between 5 and fix P. M a fmart {hockof an earthquake was felt at Crieff, at Comrie, andfor many miles round that diftritt, which is aboutijj miles from Edinburgh ” “ At Mr. Robert-fon’s houfe of Lawers, a rumbling noife like dis¬tant thunder had been heard at intervals for twcmonths; and at the time of the fhock, a ncife .ikethe discharge of diftant artillery was diftindljheard. Mr. Dundas ahd Mr. Bruce of Edinburgh,were {Landing before the fire in the drawing room,and they defcribed the fhock, as if a great malic•had fuddenly ftruck the foundation of jhe houfewith violence. At the village of Conirie, the in¬habitants left their houfes and ran to the ope.fields-”— “Qu the nth Nov. A. M, in the fameplacaIt EM ARK ABLE EARTHQUAKES. 23place, anofhei Ihock was felt, which was muchmore violent than that of the 5th It was accom¬panied with a hollow rumbling noife. The ice ona piece of water near the houfe of Lawers, wasfhivered to atoms.” Mr. Creech, after quotingfrom the London Chronicle, the account of theearthquake at Borgo San Sepolcro, on the 2«th of-Sept. I’Jot), adds, ct It is very extraordinary, thaton the fame day, near 3 P. M. two or three dif-tincL (hocks w<iie felt at the houfe of Parfon^sCreen, within a mile of Edinburgh. The houfsis fituated on the N. fide of Arthur’s Seat, whichis compofed of an immenfe blue granite. Severalvifitors were in the houfe to dine with the family,and the whole company ran down flairs from thedrawing-room, and met the fcrvants from the kit¬chen in the lobby, equally alarmed at what hadhappened. They defcribed the fenfiition, as ifthe houfe had received two or three violent blowsin ti'e founuation, fo that all the furniture fhook.”“On the 10th Nov. 1792, three repeated (hocksof an earthquake, accompanied with a hollowrumbling noife, like that of diftant thunder, werefelt at Loch Rannoch, in Perthfhife ” Mr. Creechconcludes his account of thefe and other phvficalphenomena, with an extradl of a letter from“Cornne, in Perthfhire,” dated “Nov. 30th 1792.”from which we (hall only quote the fads Hated.‘ We have of late, been greatly alarmed with fe-ireral very fevere (hocks of an earthquake. Theyi.vtre more fenfibie and alarming, than any felt for-nerly, and the noife attending them was uncom¬monly loud and tremulous. It appeared probablymore fo, from the (lillnefs of the atmofphere, andhe reverberation of the furrounding mountains,(he houfes were greatly (haken, and the furniturecficd ±rom its place. The weather had been un-24 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,commonly variable, and changed from high gutlof wind, to a deep calm, a few days before thfevered {hocks of the earthquake. '1 he air wamold and hazy, and the clouds feemed chargeiwith eleblricity, -r AEncyclopaedia Perthenfis, vol. EAKTwo fiiocks of an earthquake, (fimilar to thofwhich began at the lY«>e place fome years ago) havbeen lately felt at and neat;Comrie in Perthflureone on the 17th of January, and tne other on th-24th of February.The motion of the earth was from Wed to Eadand laded about two feconds, but the fubterraneous noife, which accompanied it, continued mudv‘'6 r Scots Magazine for March, 1799FINIS.GLASGOW*PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,SALTMARKET, t^ob-