SfHEHISTORY©F THBlind BeggarOF BETHNAL GREEN.SHEWING,TIr,io he gee's io the wars, loses Ids sight, and tilr*T$beggar at Bethnal Green.lie gets a light into the carting trade from t)i old ex¬perienced beggar,—fie goes to the beggars*yearly feast, and Ids entertainmentthere.■tie is made happy hy th» birth of a beautiful daughter^ uifywhen 'site grew up is courted by a young knightConcluding mthii Her Marriage with the blight, and the discovery (jfthe Beggarsfamous pedigree.Adorned with Guta,UTr^pnc vuvori r ;SCCTL#vM)n&u&g*Printed and Sold frj H Randyj.THEHISTORYOFTHE BLIND BEGGAR.'CHAP. Li'( Monford and his Wife go to the Wars ofFrance, where he loses his eye-sight, andthey afterwards return to England,|;ji *I IN former days when the rose of Eng- rland eclipsed the French lillies, amongother brave gallants who went to try theirfortunes, was one Monford, a person whowas Weil descended ; and being greedy offame, neither the entreaty of his friends,nor his marriage with a beautiful lady,could alter his purpose, but crossingthe sea to Calais, he marched to the roy?1I-standard, accompanied by his wife,I4'companion in all clangers, and was ;means of saving his life; for in an ccounter between the. English and Ffe'myoung Monford being too hot in the ptlsuit, was entrapped in an ambush,' al'though he bravely defended himself.he was beat from his horse, and left ithe field for dead; where he had sure.perished, had not his tender-hearted wiiMargaret, upon hearing what had passtreturned to the field, where, searchingmong the slain, by moon-light, she dicovered him stripped and straggling flife, and by the help of a servant, broughim to a shepherd’s cottage, where s!dressed his wounds and recovtred hirfo their mutual joy ; though this joy wmuch abated when they found he had lohis eyes ; but love working in her heal^his misfortune could not alter her afletion, but comforting him in the best mainer she could, brought him back to Enjland, now unfit for service, and they setied at Bethnal Green, in the county •MhJdlfsex.&. CHAP IL3 * t;lonford arrives in England ; of ^his coldEntertainment from his "ends; andhis resolution to beg on E .thnal Green,MONFORD escaping the storm, onhis return landed in Essex, whereie had some rich relations, to whom hej.pplied himself, but found a very cold en-ertainment, insomuch, that scorning toely on their charity, he told the kindjpartner of his joy and sorrow, he intendediarly in the morning to hasten towardsGondon, and that he had rather 'trust toProvidence, than the ingratiude of thosewho, in his prosperity, had caressed him.[His wife cherished him, saying she wouldnot be idle, but do the utmost of her end¬eavours. And so, without taking leavef any, early in the morning they depart-d, and in two days travelling, having|3pent what little money they had, necesi-y so far humbled his high spirit, that h«did not think it amiss to crave the charityof people, who, understanding he got his{blindness in fighting for the honor of hrs, conn fry, gave very liberally, insomuilthat lit- resolved to be ot good chber, finlog charity bestow e l upon him f aster thifie expected*; whereupon, arriving atplace cafied eiethnal Green, with the litt]rnoticy g^>od)rpcople had given him, 11Jdred a small cottage for his wife anfha tnself, and daily appeared publiclybeg alms.Hence he was called the Blind Beggarof Bethnal Green ; and in a short time hefound a thriving trade, insomuch that hisbed of straw was changed for one ofdown, and all his other utensils for ths^seof a better sort.1CHAP. IILvlonford meets with Snap, an old experi¬enced Beggar, who gives him a Lightinto the mysteries of the Canting Trade.ONFORD, having had good successby the side, of the road, resolved!iko spend the rest of his time in this man-mer. He was one day encountered by antold proficient in the trade, who began toi talk to him in the beggars dialect, [whichilkind of speech is known to none but them-f selves] Monford being ignorant, couldimakehimno answer; which the other,f whose name was Snap, perceiving, andknowing him^by that, to be a young be¬ginner, iie invited him to their rendezvousin Whitechapel; whither he went, andbetween them they tippled off four potsof hum, and then parted for that tim^CHAP. IV.Monford goes to the Beggar’s Feast—an|of his Entertainment.MONFORD, on his coming homedeclared to his wife what a comunion he had met with, and whither hti•i i been invited to go ; and she adviseei to perform his promise, and led hiir’..er herself. Snap knew him at firstsight, and taking Irim by the hand, pre¬sented him with a beil and a dog trainedto the business, which had been the com¬panion of an eyeless beggar deceased*After having feasted both hiisi and hisspouse in a splendid manner, they dismis¬sed them, on promise that he would notbe Wanting at their yearly feast. So beingdismissed, he.trudged home, with histractable guide, who, ever after, was mostserviceable to hifti. yCHAV. V.i M- hi’s Success^ and having a Daughter,whom he named Elizabeth.Blind Beggar, by his fortunatej| Idve ;tures' scorned to be confined!o his fon er plying places ; but, by thelelp of his dog, he often trudged to Lon-loa, where he. picked up so much money.‘that he frequently used to chant tire fol¬lowing song :A Beggar lives a merry life,And hath both wealth and ease;His days are free from care and strife,He doth whate’er he please.Whilst others labour, sweat; and toil,His tongue doth gain him pelf;Vie travels with his dog and bell*And brings home store of wealth.He being at this time in easy circum¬stances, to compieat his satisfaction, hada daughter born, who was vepy -beautiful,which made him think himself the hap- fpiest Tn*n alive. An hundred- runes he >kissed and dandled her in his arms, and ;at her christening, which was performed 'with decency and prudence, caused her tobe named Elizabeth, from whence shewas called pretty Bessy.As she grew up, her beauty, wit, shape,and other perfections, were so extraordina¬ry, that her praises were always spoken of, iespecially by the young men, which madethe young maids seek all opportunities toaffront her openly, frequently calling herBeggar’s Brat, which she bore as long asshe could, with a becoming, patience, andstrove by gentle persuasions to make themleave off their reflections ; but all provingto no purpose, she desired her parents tolet her go and seek her fortune, to whichthey both consented with tears in theireyes, though they long opposed it, usingmany arguments to persuade her to thecontrary: but finding her reasons weightyand tending to her advantage, they lefther to her own discretion.The Beggar’s daughter leaves herhouse to seek her fortune, and ofentertainment.T'HE day being now come that prettyBessy should depart, being furnish¬ed with clothes, money, and other neces¬saries, she fell on her knees, craving herfather’s blessing, which granted, they tooka sad farewel, and betook them to theirseveral callings; Monford to his muflap-ing, his wife to her wheel, and Bessy toseek her fortune.Pretty Bessy having left her father’shouse, travelled along the road, until shecame to Stratford, trusting to fortune andthe good a^d guardian angel to direct heiy; Hr,And so travellmg all night-, by ^uH-risin^she got to Rumford, where finding hersei:faint, she betook herself to an inn ; ther^sitting down, she called ibf something trefresh herself, looking pensive, and Sighing at her hard fortune j which the mistress perceiving, asked her whence she*came, and in what place she was born?i'She said, she was forced, contrary to herexpectations, to se^k her fortune, and tho’born near London, was now driven fromit. Upon this, the good woman beingtaken with her carriage, demanded if shewould stay with her, and she would useher as. a daughter, and not as a servant?To this, after a while she consented, anddischarged herself so well in whatever sheundertook, that she gained the love and.esteem of ail around her. Insomuch, thather name for ingenuity, and beauty, beganto spread, and abundance of young menresorted to the house, on purpose to seeher, and they all liked her; for Nature hadmade Iter s<? ehariuing, that she could notbut be admired, insomuch that marvy ofStem, as they found an opportunity, be¬gan to put love stories in her ears to whichgjive but little keed^ till four suitors13bf gr$at vrorth beat off those little assail-iantpj and laid dose siege, a-s.will appearis courted by several persons of goodbirth and iortuue*IT being secretly whispered that prettyBessy must be more than she seemed,d made her reputation higher, insomuch,J that the innkeeper’s son, a London mer-■| chant, a gentleman of good estate, and aI rich knight, all courted her favour ; to1 wdtose importunities she urged the mean-i; rtess of her birth, and inequality of heri fortune, desiring them to desist from theirundertakings. This modest objection of| her’s, excited further imaginations of thej! worth of her parentage, arid added moreI fuel to the fire—So easy are men to believeJ the things they would have. InsomuchI that they began to renew their addressesby offering her jewels, rings, &c. whi(*ishe refused, on aefcount of her charact¬er, and therefore, she reoolved to discoverfin the next chapter.I - ■-■|( .CHAP.- VII.14cerity of their affections, and she accord-• ingly did so.CHAP. VIII.Pretty Bessy declares her parents,—andloses all her lovers but one.OUR beautiful virgin being pressedfor love and enjoyment, found her¬self obliged to tike a course to get rid ofher lovers, or allot one of them to hershare. Therefore she told them that shewas not at her own disposal, and if theyall lover! her as sincerely as they pretend¬ed, she was contented her father shouldchoose 'One for her, and whose choiceshould be hers,♦This made them eager to know to whoseshare she should fall, and therefore desir-oi her to inform them where her fatherlived.My parents, worthy sirs, says she, liveon Bethnkl Green ; my father is led by a15)g with a bell, living on the charity of' pod people ; my mother,is a woman that)ins for her bread. These are my pa¬nts, and I will not marry without theirinsent.i feThis struck our gallants as mute as alouse; after which, they scrupled to be-eve that such homespun people could beie parents of such a charming maid;ut when she gave them an account ofer leaving them, they began to scratch,ajaeir noddles, stamp on the ground, -andraw in their horns faster than they puti hem out. The merchant, gentleman, andan keeper, declaring, if it was so, she was;o wife for them; but the -knight, who■ vno had a good estate, and did not stando much for interest, as the pleasing oflis fancy, after he had paused a little,ook the little maid by the hand, and said,fou see, my dearest, how those whocourted you in hopes of a fortune, are/anished, now they find their mistake;bvill you yield to' one more constant ?*mu shall, without delay, be sole mis-ress of my heart. Which she answer-■fed with a sigh. Alas ! sir. I cannot ex¬pect so great a happiness* thongh i confers.I esteemed you more than the Test. Iwill not dispose of myself without ‘theconsent of my father and mother; f .rthough they are .poor, they are neverthe¬less my parents., This modesty kindled his passion moremd rr*ore. Wherefore, after much dis¬course, and many tows of constancy, it■vas agreed, that he should be ready witha horse and servants the next- morningearly, and she would come and ride withhim to Bethnal Green, to require the oldpeoples’ consent. Yet this was not car¬ried on so secret, but the spies abroad dis¬covered it, not only to the knight’s uncle,who managed his estate, but likewise tomost of the young men of Rumford, whowerelier adifcirers.Pretty Bessy rides behind the Knight toher father’s house, where the beggardrops angels with the knight’s uncle,OUR beautiful virgin member euureons knight at the appointed time,'and relying on his fidelity, she got up be¬hind him.CHAP. IX.But scarce were they out of town, be¬fore the knight’s uncle went to the inn,and missing them there, sifspeoted to betrue what had been t Id him, and roi-jfowed them, to prevent the match ; as[Hid likewise the young men who wereKmitten* with her' to take her from theisKnight, who they reared had carried heraway by force.Thus, there was great confusion andhurry; and the townsmen taking thenearest way got before them, ere theyarrived at Bethnal Green, and fell uponhim, without giving him leave to speakfor himself, so there being a sharp con¬test, until such time as some personscoming by, parted them. When theybeing informed of the truth of the mat¬ter, asked his pardon, which he granted,and dismissing them, went on his wav,till coming to the old man’s house, theyalighted, which made him start from thefire and put his head out of the window,not knowing the meaning of the horsestrampling at the door. Presently the ,Knight’s uncle came up, puffing andblowing at a strange rate: Why, hownow nephew ! what is rhis I hear of you?are you mad ? to disgrace your fantily bymarrying a beggar’s brat!! O for shame !for shame! consider better than makeyourself a laughing-stock to men, by sucha match—How comes this about, yousaucy baggage-But however, i say, neph-,cw, leave her, and I will provide for /you aiO ' ;match, who shall be rich and suitable toyour condition.To this the young Knight would have! replied, but the beggar growing angryto hear his daughter so abused, thus in¬terrupted him.I cannot see you at all Sir, but I hearyou too much, and more than become^ agentlemen; nor do l count my daughterso mean to be railed on at; my own door;therefore hold your prating, Sir, or 1 willfeel for you with my cudgel. If your(kinsman don’t think my child a fit match'jjfor him, he is welcome to let her alone,ll think in good breeding she is not want-ling ; and for money, be it known to you,her father is ready to drop angels withjyou, for his girl ta.ve notice of that.The gentleman immediately sent hisservant to fetch what gold he had, whilst:he beggar, from under a heap of rags,pulled out a catskin or two. lined with|old, anti each party being ready, they’ained a golden shower so plentifullyhat the gentleman’s stock failed him;md the beggar not hearing it clink, fell20into a laughter, saying, How now, sir, is|your money done so soon ? I thought, at|first you had more words than money,|and now I am convinced of it: Pray, foryour credit’s sake, try your friends ; for Ihave three or four catskin’s more withgold puddings in their bellies. Indeed,said the gentleman, I am content to own iyou have outdone me, and think you havethe philosopher’s stone, or keep a familiarspirit to bring the gold to you from themines that produce that metal. But see¬ing the world goes so well with you, Ishall no more go about to persuade mynephew from being your son-in-law, butbeg pardon for what I have done, O,you do ! said the beggar, then things maybe better still. Then turning to theknight, he said, Gather up these loosecorns I have scattered, and there is anoth¬er catskin to make just a thousand pounds,besides a hundred more to buy her a gown.Tate this as her present portion, and asyou behave yourself, expect more here¬after. Remember I give her to you witnmy blessing. Go to church and be mar-• ried, and may prosperity attend you.Upon this, the two level's fell upon theirknc.es, thanked him and departed j whilethose who had been her suitors, hearingwhat had happened, were ready to hangthemselves through madness.CHAP. X! Pretty Beasy is married to th« knight, andher true pedigree discovered, at a grandf! festival. *|npHINGS coming to this pass, greatI preparations were made for the wed¬ding, to which resorted many worthy per¬sons. No cost was spared in rich appa¬rel, or sumptuous fare, while the lovelybride was led £• the church by the worthybridegroom; and when the sacred bands22were tied, they went back with the Hisplendor into the place of festivity.Excellently did she become and grawhat she wore, nature having madean exact pattern of beauty.Being arrived at home, and the tab!spread, the bride, now of a beggar'daughter made a Lady, took her plactoutshining the other beauties who werthere, as far as the moon is outshone b^the sun.And now nothing was wanting but th*old beggar and his wife, who soon came 1dressed in silk and velvet, embroiderecwith gold ; so all things went on in mirtland great was the satisfaction the com¬pany received in the repast, but more scin the music, dancing, masquerading, &cand in the conclusion, the old man sungthe following song.23| H f » > }■ V ' .• jj ^ J '' ft -> r ! . , ' ‘ f .. ^ ; f*THE BLIND MAN’S SONG.» • * „ ^I You gallants all that here are come,To make this day more happy prove,l Know tho’ I’m blind lam not dumb.But wish you happiness in love.e bride, tho’ her birth seem but mean,Descended of a worthy race,Her ancestors they great have been,If you her pedigree do trace.!Know she is Monford’s daughter fair,Who lost his sight in wars with France,Who ever since in begging here,Did take this happy thriving chance.m * -.Consider, bridegroom, then her birth,\Vhich some do think but mean andlow,I as much honor can bring forth,As you have riches for to shew.' * .A. •' nThe nam* of Monford, wliich hid bciheld famous for virtue and valourthose days, did not a little cause wondin the hearers, who, desiring him to eplain himself, plainly tftld them his &ventures in trance and England, and hohe took up the trade of begging, and tlike; which caused a general joy, sinthose who had formerly known him bthat name, supposed him to be dead. Sthe bridegroom^ found himself now mor>happy than ever. And old Monford promised; for the credit of his daughter, tcleave off the begging trade, and to live orwhat money he had got. So the day wasconcluded to the joy and satisfaction oiall parties.-FINIS.