THEWITH AND ENTERTATNIM EXPLOITSOFGEORGE BUCHANAN,GOMAIOXLY calledthe KIN G’8 F 0 0 L.GLASGOAT :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.13WITTY EXPLOITSorMR. GEORGE BUCHANAN.PART I.Mr. George Buchanan was a Scotsman born, andthough of mean parentage, made great progress inlearning. As for his understanding and ready wit,he excelled all men then alive in the age, that everproposed questions to him. He was servant orteacher to King James the VI., and one of his pri¬vate counsellors; but publicly acted as his fool.1. It happened one day that a young airy noble¬man went into the king’s garden to pull a flowerfor a young lady he fancied : George followed at adistance, so when the young man found a flower hefancied, he would not pull it himself, but to find itagain without farther search, he covered it with hishat, and went away for his sweetheart. No soonerwas he gone, but up goes George, lifts his hat, andpulls the flower, then cases himself on the spot,covers it with the hat again, and away he goes.Soon after, the young gentleman returned, leadinghis sweetheart to pull the t! wer below the hat;but as soon as he lifted the hat, and saw what wasbelow it, he looked like a fool; and the lady flyingin a passion, sets off, and would never countenance4THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.him any more. The young gentleman being svexed at this affront given to him by George,him a challenge to fight him, appointing dayfdace where they Avere to meet. Being to fighmrseback, George ge*s an old stiff horse, andharnessing, covers him about with blown blad'with small stones in each, Avithout either sworspear; and aAvay to the field he goes, Avhereduel Avas appointed. So Avhen George saAVenemy coming against him, all in glitterinmour, armed with sword and spear, he madehim Avith all the speed his horse could carryAvhen the small stones in the bladders madea rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine gewould not stand the battle, but ran away,threw his master to the ground ; Avhich 'feausethe spectators to laugh, and say the gentlema:more fool than George. The gentleman beingmore enraged at this second affront, he wouldAAnth George on foot; but his friends persuadedthat it would be no honour for him to fight amthe king’s fool ; and far less to be killed by theSo they Avere advised both to agree. But thetleman would try another exploit Avith Georgito have it said he was still the cleverestviz :—To hold him a jumping-bout publiclyinext day thereafter. With all my heart, ]George, and avc will end in about whenbegan, they not knoAving his meaning inThe place and hour being set, Avhere they avomeet next morning. George in the nightcaused a deep pit to be made, and the earthcarried aAvay ; then filled it up Avith dung irp , and covered it over with a green turf,it might not be known by the other ground,according to promise, they both met in the ning against the appointed time. Noav, G'being the oldest man, and by them counteoTHE IIFE OF GEORGE BUCHAN'AH’.5greatest foci, the young spark permitted Mm tojump first, which he according to order did, amijumped within a foot of the place where the groundwas falsified. The young man seeing this, madehis performance with great airs, and all his might,so that he jumped a foots over George, but up tothe oxters in clean dung ! whereat the wholemultitude of. spectators cried out with huzzas and■ laughter. Now, says George. I told you we wouldend fin and about where .we, began, and that is Inclean dirt. e% On a time after this, the king and his courtwere going into the country, and they would haveGeorge to ride before them in the fool’s dress jwhereunio he seemed unwilling, but ft was theking’s pleasure.- fjo George was mounted upon anold horse, with a pair of old riven boots, tiro heelshanging down, and a palmer coat, patched overwith pictures of divers kinds, George rode beforethem in this posture, which caused great laughterand diversion, until they came to an inn, wherethey alighted to dine, and in the time they were atdinner George went into the stables, and with aknife cut all their horses’ chafts, not sore, but aoas they might bleed. Now, as soon as dinner wasover, and they mounted on their horses again,George riding before them as. usual, ha his palmercoat and old boots, they began to make their gameof him. Then Geoi'ge turning about suddenly, andclapping his hands with a loud laughter, the kingasked him what made him laugh so. Laugh, saysGeorge, how can I but laugh, when horses cannothold thehy eace ? 0 my sovereign, says he, don’tyou see how your horses«have rent their chaftslaughing at my old hoots ! Then every maa look-at his horse’s mouth, they were all in a ragegainst George. The king, causing George toamount directly, and charged him never to letTHE LIFE OF GEORGS BUCHANAN.him see his face on English ground. Now Geoknowing that nothing could reconcile the kingthis time, he came away to (Scotland, and cansthem to make a pair of great boots, and pulquantity of Scottish earth in each of them,away he goes for London, to see the king oimore. He hearing the king and his court weripass through a town, George places himself upan old window, and sets up his bare a—, toking and his court as they passed. The kinggreatly amazed to see such an unusual honourto him was curious to know the performer ; sicalled unto him, desiring him to come down;finding it to be George—Sir, says the king,not I charge you never to let me see youragain ? True, my sovereign, says George,which cause I let you see my a—. But saysking, you was never to come on English gnagain. Neither I did, says George, pullinghis boots before the King, behold, my Soveroiit is all Scots earth I stand upon. The kingbis court beingc greatly diverted with thisin to theGeorgeCiwasadmittedmikijoke,favour.8. After this there arose a debate betwixtking and the queen about votes in the parliamias the king had two votes, the queen would ’one, and would needs be a parliamenter, 01peace without preferment. This matter wasmitted to George by the king; so it was agamong the parliamenters, that the queen shbe admitted into parliament for a day. Accingly she came, and was received with allthonour and congratulation that was due(4.becoming her high station ; but before any miof consequence was brought to the board, G»seated himself hard by the queen’s seat; all 1silent, he rose up very quickly, lifted one01fo,it,haTHS LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.7k-il(li|legs, let a loud f 1, which set the whole housea-laughing ; whereat the queen was greatly offend¬ed, and said, go, take the rogue and hang him, towhich George answered, a fine par’i am enter, in¬deed, to hang a man for a sinless infirmity, andthat’s a f 1. The queen being enraged at theaffront put on her first appearance in parliament,went off in a passion, and never would countenancothem more. But yet, to he revenged on George,she would never give the king rest till he deliveredGeorge into her hands, that he might he punishedat her pleasure ; which the king accordingly com¬manded to he done, knowing that George wouldrescue himself by’ some intrigue or other. Nosooner was he delivered into her hands, hut sheand her maids of honour pronounced his doom,which was as follows :—As he had affronted thequeen among so great an equipage, who ought tobe honoured iu chief above ;;!! women in thenation,- that he should he si •• 1 to death by thehands of women. Now the time being come thathe had to die, according to their appointment, howas taken into a park, where it. great number ofwomen were waiting for hi m with their apronsfull of stones, to fall upon hea, and put him todeath, according to the queen' appointment.GEORGE’S SPEECH TO HL EXE QUITO SEES.Here’s a female band with bags of stones,To kill a man for rumple groans.I’m clean of rapine, blood, and tliefts,Could I convert my f s to rifts ?Since I, tbe first for f s do die,Close up the place from whence they fly,To commit my crime, I think ye’ll scarce,If once you do cork up your a—.And now since women stones do carry,Men need n#t in the world longer tarry,8THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.Judge if such women be chaste complete,With forty stones between their f ;But since his so ye will come on,The„greatest w—— throw the first stone.When he hadgreatest w ended with these words, “ Th|throw the first stone,” every oi]put it to another to cast the first stone, but kno1ing they would attain the character of a w——■ f<so doing, they all refused till the dying hour wjpast, and then he took a protest against them, aby that means he gained his life. After thiswas admitted into the queen’s favour and presenand attended the court as formerly,4. About this time, the French king, in ord:to pick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sentletter to the king, desiring it to be read beforeparliament: and the writing was as follows : “ WI come? Will I come? Will I come?”—Tletter being read before the king and his courtithey all concluded that the French king designito invade England; therefore they orderedanswer to be wrote, upbraiding him with tbreach of peace, and putting him in mind oflast treaty. The answer being read before t|king and his nobles, they all agreed that it shorlbe sent off. But George, smiling, and shakinghead, cried out,Many men, many minds,Who knows what he designs ?Then they asked George what the French kimeant by such a letter ? to which he answered,suppose he wants an invitation to come overdine with you, and then return in a friendly miner; but you are going to charge him with a bre:of peace, before he has given any signal of offcor war; his letter is indeed dark and mystical,send Lina an answer according to his questrnTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHAN'iN.9«•, George being ordered to write the answer, itas follows“ And ye come—And ye come—ye come.” This being sent to the French, he admired it beyond expression, saying, itan answer more valiant and daring than heected. So the enmity he intended was extin-)hed, and turned into love.It happened once that a malignant party inland sent up a great spokesman to the kingparliament, for the reducing of the church;kgc hearing of his coming, went away and meton the bridge, and the salutation that he gavewas the cutting off his head, and throwing itthe bridge ! lie then ran to the king withlis might, and fell down before him, pleadingheartily for a pardon, or without it he was aman. The king most seriously asked himt he had done now 1 To which he answered,md only thrown the Scots Bishop’s hat overbridge, which made the king to laugh, to hearask pardon for such a small fault; but he hadooncr got the pardon sealed by the king’s hand,he said, indeed my sovereign, I threw his hatthe bridge, but Lis head was in it. O Geordie,rdie, says the king, thou wilt never give overthou be hanged.A nobleman in England agreed with thehow to put a trick upon George, to try hisily courage, in sending him to a certain placetil bag of money. On his way home, throughlames’ park, they caused a sturdy fellow to go(set upon him by the way, and take the moneyhim. The fellow being armed with swordpistol, came up quickly and attacked Georgethese words, You, sir, deliver what moneyhave, or you are a dead man. To whichrge answered, sir, I have some indeed, butlot my own, and therefore do not like to part10THE LIFE OF GEORGE BtJCHANAN.with it : nevertheless, since being determined asyou are, to exchange blows for it, pray -do me thefavour to fire your pistol through the flap of mycloak, that the owners may see I have been ingreat danger of my life before I parted with it, winchhe accordingly did. . No sooner had he fired thepistol, than George whipt out his hanger frombelow his cloak and with one stroke cut off hisright hand wherein he held his sword, so that bothhis sword and the hand fell to the ground ; butGeorge lifted bis hand and carried it to the king.No sooner did he come before them, but theyasked him, saying, well, George, did you see anybody to trouble you by the way ? None, said he,hut one fellow, who was going to take the moneyfrom me, hut I made him give me his hand hewould not do the like again. You did ? says thefellow’s master. Yes, I did, says George ; letwork bear witness, throwing down the fellow’shand on the table before them all.7. Now, this last exploit of George’s causedmany of the English to hate him ; and, among therest, a young nobleman fell a joking of George,saying, lie would be as famous a champion forScotland as Sir William Wallace was. Ay, ay,says George, Wallace was a brave man in histime. True, indeed, says the young nobleman,but when be came to London, we did him allmanner of justice, and for honour of the Scots,we have his effigy in the s to this very day.And do you know the reason of that, says George?No, I don’t, says he. 'Well, I’ll tell you, saysGeorge : he was such a terror to Englishmenwhen he was alive, that the sight of his pictureyet makes them p  themselves. The Englishtook this answer as a great affront, and forthwithcaused Wallace’s picture to be taken out of alltheir s .THE LIPS OP GEOSGE BUCHANAN.118. A young English girl falling in love with asoU^ioan, she petitioned him several times for to1 arry her ; which he refused. So, to be revengedi him, she went to a Justice, and swore a rapegainst him, which is death by the law. Georgetaring of this, went to the prison where the youngan was, and instructed him how to behave beforee judge. So in the time of the trial Georgeme in while the judge was crying to the man,t never a word he could get him to answer, to(1 whether he was guilty or not. After the jus-e had given him over for deaf and dumb, others1 a shouting in his ears, but never a word heuld speak. Then the judge, perceiving George,lied him, saying, George, do you know what isi| matter with this man? Yes, I do very well' s George. What is it? says the judge. Why,Is George, the woman made such a noise and[ling when he was ravishing her, it has put ther man quite deaf, I assure you. Is it so ? saysjustice. No, no, says the woman, my Lordjjtice, you may believe me, I lay as mute as a.b, and never spoke a word all the time. Very1 confessed, said the justice, and you havern a rape upon him. Take the w  tonon, and let the poor man go about his business,so it ended.PART II.iRGE happened one time to be in company withjshop, and so they fell to dispute anent educa-and he blanked the bishop remarkably, andlibishop himself owned he was worsted.—Then■ of the company addressed himself to him inwords : thou Scot, said he, should not haveay country. For what? says he, because thou12THE IJFE OP GEORGE BUCHANAN.lias carried all the wisdom that is in it thither withthee. No, no, says he, the shepherds in Scotlandwill dispute with any bishop in London, and exceedthem very far in education. The bishops thentook this as an affront, and .several noblemenaffirmed it to be as the Scot had said: betswere laid on each side, and three of the bishopswere chosen, and sent away -to Scotland to dis¬pute it with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others, who -were to boar witness of whatthey should hear pass bt tween them. Now, Georgeknowing which way they went, immediately tookanother road and was in Scotland before them.He then made an acquaintance with a shepherdon the border whose pasture lay on the waysidewhere the bishops were te pass; and there homounted himself in shepherd’s dress; and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his Hockto the roadside, and foil a chanting at a Latinballad. When the bishops came up to George,oiio of them asked him in French what o’clockit was? To which he answered in Hebrew, itis directly about the time of the day it wasYesterday .at this time. Another asked him inGreek, what countryman life was ? To which heanswered in Flemish, if ye knew that, you wouldbe as wise as myself. A third asked him," in Dutch,where was you educated ? To which he answered,in Earse, herding my sheep between this andLochaber. This they desired him to explain intoEnglish, which he immediately did. Now, saidthey one to another, wre need not proceed anyfarther. What, says George, are you butchers?I’il sell you a few sheep.- To this they made noanswer, but went away shamefully, and said, theybelieved the Scots had been through till the rationsin the worid for their education, or the devil hadtaught them. Now, when George had ended thisTHE .lIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN13dispute whh the bishops, ho stripped off his shep¬herd’s dress, and up through England he goes, withall the haste imaginable, so that lie arrived at theplace from whence they set out, three days beforethe judges, and went every day n«hihg if they werepute, and many more, came crowding in, to hearwhat news from the -Scottish shepherds, and toknow what was done. Xo sooner had the threegentlemen declared what had passed between thebishops and the shepherds, whom they found onthe Sdots border, but the old bishop made answer,and think you, said he, that a shepherd couldanswer these questions ? It has been none else butthe devil ; for the Scots ministers themselves couldnot do it; they are but ignorant of suclt matters,a parcel of beardless boys. Then George thoughtit was time to take speech in hand. Well, mylord bishop, says George, you call them a parcel ofignorant beardless boys. You have a great longbeard yourself, my lord bishop,'and if grace weremeasured by beards, you bishops and the goatswould have it all, and that will be quite averse to-Scripture. What, says the bishop, are you a Scot?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, rays thebishop, and what is the difference between a Scotand a sot ! Nothing at present, says George, butthe breadth of the table, there being a table betwixtthe bishop and George. So the bishop went off ina high j-assion, while the whole multitude werelike to split their jaws with laughter.2. About this time there was an act of parlia¬ment for the benefit of murderers, that any person,who committed murder, if they forfeited five hun¬dred marks, which went under the name of Kin-boot, because, so much of this went to themurdered person’s nearest relations, as the price ofcome, so that he might not be. suspected. As soonas they arrived, all that were concerned in the dis-14THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.blood, the murderer got a remit. Now Georgeknowing this to be contrary to Moses’ laws, wasvery much grieved to see so many pardons sealedby the king’s hand for murder, almost one everyweek; it being so usual for the king to subscribethem, that he would not read them, nor enquirewhat they were ; for which cause, George writes awrit to the crown, and sent it to the king to besubscribed, which he actually did, and never lookedwhat it was, returned it to George. No soonerhad he received it, but he goes to the king andtold him it was not time for him to be sittingthere, whereat the king, greatly amazed, startedup ; then George in great haste, sets himself downin the king’s chair, forthwith declaring himselfking, saying, you who was king must be my fool,for I am now the wisest man. The king at thiswas greatly offended, until George showed him hisseal and superscription. But from that day forth,the king knew what he subscribed.3. The xt pardon that came to be sealed bythe king, was a gentleman who had killed two menbefore, and had got pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king was very silent inlooking over the petition : George standing byasked the king what he was going to seal now.To which he answered, it is a remit for a man whohas killed three men at sundry times, I gave himtwo remits before. Oh, says George, he has killedbut one man. And who killed the other two,says the king-. You did, says George, for if youhad given him justice when he had killed the first,he had killed no m re. When the king heardthese words he threw down the pen, and declaredthat such an act to save a murderer, shpuld be nullever after by him.4. One day, George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and a spade, and then falls aTHE LIFE OF (JEOBSE BUCHANAN.15i digging at a corner of the king’s palace ; wlr.cii tbeking perceiving from his window, calls what he was!t wanting there ? Are you going to undermine myji house, and make it fall ? No, my sovereign, says'« George, but it is verily reported that there is plentyef money about this house, and where can it be ?Bsays George, I cannot find it, for it is not withinthe house to do me service, then surely it must beif below it. 0 George ! says the king, that is a craveIj after the new fashion, what money you Avant I’lly order for you. Then, my sovereign, says George,' I’ll dig no more.5. One time George being in the country, he! came to an inn, A\rhere he alighted to refresh him-jt self and his horse. The innkeeper charged him! double price for every thing he called for.—Georgenever grumbled at this, but gave him all demands,if and a>vay he goes on his journey. At the innwhere he quartered the following night he wasi used after the same manner, if not worse. HaAr-[ ing little farther to go, he returned next day, andi came that night to the inn where he refreshedhimself the day before. So, when he alighted,I the boy asked him what he would give his horse ?What you Avill, said he. When he had gone tohis room, the waiter enquired what he would haveto drink? What you will, says he. The masteref the inn came into his room before supper, andenquired what he would have for supper ? Whatyou will landlord, says he. After supper, and ahearty boAvl to put all over, he went to bed. Onthe morrow he rose very early, and called for theboy to make ready his horse in all haste, for heavhs designed to mount and go directly. Soonafter, he went into the stable Avhere the boy rvas,calling for his horse, Avlien he mounted with allthe speed he could, and gave the boy a piece ofmoney, saying, here my boy, this is for taking1G THE KfE OP GEORGE BUCHANAN. .cava of my horse; I have pahl for nil T haveordered in the house, and off he goes. Aboutmid day he alighted again at an inn to refreshhimself and his horse, and there he chanced to bein company with his other Landlord where ho wasthe night before, and charged him with the doublereckoning; so he addressed himself to him in thefollowing manner.—iSir, says hep I do believe Iwas in your house yesternight; O yes, Sir, says he,1 mind of you pretty well. And where was youlast night ? Last night, says George. I was in oneof the finest inns, and the civilest landlord I everhad in my life: they brought all things that Intood in need of unto me, Avithout calling for them ;and when 1 came off this morning, they chargedme nothing, and I paid nothing but sixpence tothe boy for dressing my horse. Blood and wounds !said the old fellow, then I’ll go there this night.Ay, says George, do ; and mind this, when theyask you what you will have for yourself and yourhorse, answer nothing hut What you will, Sir.George smiling within himself, to think how hehad got the one extortioner to take amends of theother. So this innkeeper set off on his journey,and rode so late that night that he miejit reachthe cheap inn, that most of the people were goneto bed before lie arrived. As soon as he dismountedfrom Ids horse, the boy enquired at him, Whatshall I give your horse, master ? To which heanswered, What you will, boy. The boy hearingthis, runs away, (leaving him and his horse tostand at the door), up stairs to his master’s room,crying, master, master, What-you-will is comeagain;—U the rogue, cries he, where is he?—I’llcane him—I’ll what you will him by and by.Then to him he runs with his cane, licks, andkicks him until he was scarce able to mount hishorse, and would give him no entertainment there,THE LIFE OF GEOECE BEGHANAN.which caused him to ride the whole of a cold win¬ter right, after he had got his’ bones,all’,beat andbruised. So the one pursued the other as a mur¬derer ; and his defence was, that he wasiaTcheatand a scorher of his house', until the truth wasfound out.C. About this time the French Urg sent anddemanded from the king of ErighvhcT, three menof different qualities. The first was to he a mightystrong'man ; the second a very Wise mdn and thethird a very great fool; so that,die might havenone in all France to match them. 86, accord¬ingly, there were two men ‘ choseh ; the one astrong man, and the other a very wise man, hutGeorge was to act as the fool; nevertheless, howas the teacher of the other two. On their wayto France George asked the strong riari, what willyou answer the French king when he asks if youhe a strong man ? Why, says he,’ I’ll say’ I am.Then, says George, lie’ll possibly get a strongerman than you, who will kill you, and affront yourcountry! What shall I say then, said the strongman. Why, says George, tell him yoii are strongenough untried. Then said he to the wise,man,and what will you say to the king, when he asks ifyou are a wise man ? Why, I'll tell him' I am,and answer him all the questions 1 know. Verywell, says George, but wdiat if he asks you whatyou do not know, then you’ll affront your coun¬try, and be looked upon as a greater fool than me.Well, and what shall I answer, then? sail the wiseman. Why, says George, tell him he is only awise man that can take care of himself; -and Ishall come in after you, and take oare of you alto¬gether. As soon as they arrived at the king ofFrance’s palace, the king sent for them to trythem. The strong man was first called for, andin he went; then the king asked him if he was a18THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN,strong man ? to which he answered, 0 king ! I amstrong enough untried. Very well, said the king.After him the wise man was called; and the king ■asked him if he was a wise man ? to which he 1answered, he is gonly a wise man who can takecare of himself. Very well, says the king. Onwhich George pushed up the door, and in he went,with loud laughter, and p  directly in hisMajesty’s face, which blinded both his eyes, and |put the whole court in amaze. Now, now, saidhis Majesty, it is true enough what the wise mansays, for if I had taken care of myself, I need nothave been p  upon by the English fool. 0ho, says George, fools always strive to make foolsof others, but wise men make fools of themselves.By this his Majesty seemed to think he was madethe greatest fool, and charged them to go home,for he wanted no more of England’s strength,wisdom, or folly.7. One night a Highland drover chanced to 1have a drinking-bout with au English captain of |a ship, and at last they came to be very hearty |over their cups, so that they called in their ser¬vants to have a share of their liquor. The drover’s Iservant looked like a wild man, going without ’■breeches, stockirigs, or shoes, not so much as abonnet on his head, with a long peeled rung inhis hand. The captain asked the drover howlong it was since he catched him ? He answeredit is about two years since 1 hauled him out of thesea with a net, and afterwards ran into the moun¬tains, where I catched him with a pack of hounds.The captain believed it was so ; but, says he, I havea servant the best swimmer in the world. 0, but,says the drover, my servant will swim him to death.No, he will not, says the captain, I’ll lay one hun¬dred crowns on it. Then, says the drover, I’ll layit one to one, and staked directly, the day beingTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.19appointed when trial was to be made. Now thedrover, when he came to himself, thinking on whata bargain he had made, did not know what to do,knowing very well that his servant could swimnone. He hearing of George being in town, whowas always a good friend to Scotchmen, he wentunto him and told him the whole story, and thathe would be entirely broke, and durst never returnhome to his own country, for he was sure to loseit. Then George called the drover and his manaside, and instructed them how to behave, so thatthey should be safe and gain too. So accordinglythey met at the place appointed. The captain’sman stript directly and threw himself into the sea,taking a turn until the Ilighlandman was ready,for the drover took some time to put his servantin order. After he was stripped, his master tookhis plaid, and rolled a kcbbuck of cheese, a bigloaf, and a bottle of gin in it, and this he boundon his shoulders, giving him directions to tell hiswife and children that he was well, and to be surehe returned with an answer against that dayse’nnight. As he went into the sea, he lookedback to his master, and called out to him for hisclaymore. And what waits he for now ? says thecaptain’s servant. He wants his sword, says hismaster. His sword, says the fellow; what is heto do with a sword ? Why, says his master, if hemeets a whale or a monstrous beast, it is to defendhis life. I know ho will have to fight his waythrough the north seas, ere he get to Lochaber.Then cried the captain’s servant, I’ll swim nonewith him, if he takes his sword. Ay, but says hismaster, you shall, or lose the wager; take youanother sword with you. No, says the fellow, Inever did swim with a sword, nor any man else,that ever I saw or heard of; I know not but thatwild man will kill me in deep water. I would20THE LIFE OP GEORGE BUCHANAN.not for the whole world, venture myself with himand a sword. The captain seeing his servantafraid to venture, or if he did, he would never soohim again alive, therefore he desired an agreementwith the drover* who at first seemed unwilling;hut the captain putting it in his will, the-droverquit him for half the sum. This he came to throughGeorge’s advice.8 George -was one day met by three bishops,who paid him the following compliments : says thefirst, -good*morrow, Father Abraham; says the■eecond/good morrow, Father Isaac ; says the third,good-mbn’ow, Father Jacob. To which he replied,I am neither Father Abraham, Father Isaac, norFather Jacob ; but I am Saul,- the son of Kish, Isent out to seek my father’s asses, and, lo 1 I have ;found three of them. Which answer fully con¬vinced the bishops that they had mistaken theirman.9, A poor Scotchman dined one day at a publichouse in London upon eggs, and not having moneyto pay, got credit- till he should return. The manbeing lucky in trade, acquired vast riches.; andafter some years happening to pass that way, calls-at the- house where he was owing the dinner ofeg'AS. Having called for the innkeeper, he askedhim-what he had to pay for the dinner of eggs hogot from him such a time? The landlord seeinghim now rich, gave him a bill of several pounds,telling him as his reason for so extravagant acharge, that these eggs, had they been hatched,would have, been chickens ; and these, laying moreeggs, would have been more chickens; and so on,multiplying the eggs and their product till suchtime as their value amounted to the sum charged.The man refusing to comply with this demand, wascharged before a. judge. He then made his caseknown to George, his countryman, who promisedTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.21to appear in the hour of cause, which he accord¬ingly did, all in a sweat, with a great basket ofboiled pease, which appearance surprised the judge,who asked him what he meant by these boiledpeas ? Says George, I am going to sow' them. Whenwill they grow ? said the judge. They will grow,said George, when sodden eggs grow chickens,which answer convinced the judge of the extrava¬gance of the innkeeper’s demand, and the Scots¬man was acquitted for twopence halfpenny.George, one day easing himself at the corner ofa hedge, was espied by an English squire who be¬gan to mock him, asking him why he did not kecklolike the hens? But George, whose wit was alw'aysready, told him he was afraid to keckle, lest hewould come and snatch up the egg, which rebuffmade the squire walk oft as mute as a fish.George was professor of the College of St. An¬drew's, and slipt out one day in his gown and slip¬pers, and went on his travels through Italy, andseveral other foreign countries and after sevenyears returned with the same dress he went offin ; and entering the college, took possession of hisscat there ; but the professor in his room quarrelledhim for so doing. Ay, says George, it is a veryodd thing that a man cannot take a wudk out inhis slippers, but another will take up his seat.And so set the other professor about bis business.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating oneanother on the streets of London, which caused agreat crowd of people to throng together to seewhat it was. A tailor being at work up in a gar¬ret, about three or four stories high, and he heav¬ing the noise in the street, looking over the svin-dowq 'Tmt could not well see them ; he began tostretch himself, making a long neck, until he felldown out of the window, and alighted on an oldman who was walking on the street; the poor tailor22 THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.was more afraid than hurt, hut the man ho fell ondied directly. His son caused the tailor to beapprehended, and tried for the murder of hisfather; the jury could not bring it in wilful mur¬der, neither could they altogether free the tailor;the jury gave it over to the judges, and the judgesto the king. The king asked George’s advice inthis hard matter. Why, says George, I will giveyou my opinion in a minute; you must cause thetailor to stand in the street where the old gentle¬man was when he was killed by the tailor, andthen let the old gentleman’s son, the tailor’s adver¬sary, get up to the window from whence the tailorfell, and jump down and so kill the tailor as hedid his father. The tailor’s adversary hearing thesentence past, he would not venture to jump outthe window, and so the tailor got clear ottVGeorge went into the mint one day when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George, ifhe would have his hat full of gold ? George readilyaccordedj but it burned the bottom out of his hat, asthey knew it wouldf and for the bout foiled George. 1However, George, to be up with them, bought afine large hat, and caused a plate of copper to beput betwixt the hat and the lining ; and returningnext day they jestingly asked him, if he wouldhave another had full of gold'? He said he would, iThey gave it red hot, and George now laughed atthem in his turn ; telling them, that his new hat |was a good one, and stood fire better than the oldone, and so carried it off honestly, and being after¬wards prosecuted for to return it, he excused him¬self, telling the judge, that he took nothing butwas given him, and therefore he was honourablyacquitted, and the other heartily laughed at.George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fashions, a short time before his death, heTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.23had a great desire to visit his native country, andthe place of his nativity. Therefore he petitionedthe king for permission to do so, which wasgranted. So he set out for Scotland, and went t@the parish of Buchanan, in Dumbartonshire,where he visited all his relations and friends.—But George staying longer from court than thetime allowed, the king sent him several messagesto return, to which he returned no answer. Atlast the king sent him a letter, threatening that ifhe did not appear before him in the space oftwenty days he would send his Lyon Heralds forhim; to which George returned the followinganswer:—My honoured liege and sovereign king-,Of your boasting great I dread nothing ;On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his king¬dom and the well-being of his soul; which drewtears from the king’s eyes when he read it.- ——o —WILL SCOTT.A celebrated attendant upon the Sheriff, wellknown for his activity in the execution of hisorders, as well as for taking a bit comfortableguzzel when finances would afford it, was oneSabbath day snugly seated in the pew behind theBailies at church. Will had not been there longtill he was soon lull’d into sweet slumbers, andfancied himself seated along with his companionsover a- good imperial half-mutchkin, and in ashort time the reckoning came a-paying, whensome of the party insisted it was already paid;24THE LIFE OF GEOIIGE BUCHANAN.however, Will happened not to be of that opinion,rmd true to his integrity, bawled out with all hiamight in the midst of the sermon. “ No, no, bymy faith its no pay’t, we have had just a’e halfmutchlun, an’ twa bottles o’ ale and there-’s no afardin o't pay’t.”GRAVE-DIGGER OF SORN.The Grave digger of Sorn, Ayrshire, was n jselfish and as mean a sinner as ever handlet'imattock, or carried mortclofh. He was a ven|quarrelsome and discontented old man, with a voie.like the whistle of the wind through a key-hole. (Jia bleak Sunday afternoon in the country, an ac¬quaintance from a neighbouring parish accostechim and asked how the world was movingwith him, Oh, very puirly, si-r, very puirly indeed,” was the answer, “ the yard has dornnaething ava for us this summer, if ye like t<believe me, I havna buried a levin’ soul this satweeks.”HOW TO READ A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through a certaitown, noticed a sign-board above an entry, witthe following inscription :Green' Teas, Raw Sugnrs, Marmalades, JellieCapped Biscuits, and ad sorts of ConfectionarGoods, sold down this entry.He read it as follows :—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, JadoiScabbed Bitches, and all sorts of ConfusionarGoods, sold down this entry.