Watty’s Travels to Carslile, in Search orA PLACE.To which are added.iWILL YE GO to the TROSACHS.Blue Bonnets over the Border.IllDown the Bum Davie.IB; ■  PAISLEY:Printed by G. Caldwell.1826*Watty’s Travels T* Carlisle In .qi;ar.c'of a Place.Gin yo ask where I come free, I come free hellsivvhar Father and Mither and Itouesf folks bitV/ v sweetheart, glide bless her, she thought rulike me,Yihsn we parted, the very tear gush’d frae her tSpoken.)—Farovvepl, Watty, for 11! neerve ms'.ir—heut, quo’ I, woman, ye need na g»ji hat waj .For maybe or king, I’ll ho maister mysel,So we parted, and I took the last look o’ the IBcTev my shoulher my bundle l scarcely had fluiBvVhen Colly, pair fallow, he after me sprung,’/lie puir doited creattire, he fawned at my tit, HiIf to say, Watty, we maiama part yet.Then at Carlisle I stood wi’ a strive ia tiy motMae doubt they togk me for a promising y^utSI‘ Spoken.)—A’ the wives came rinniHg r jMia in clusters, wiying, What wages <Y ye a-kjry h;d ?—What wages do I ask, says I; JPound ami a ( town; I winna bate r. hair-srd down o’t-—What can you do ?. says anilIV cpitt l, Dod I can saw, inaw, plough,|muck a hvfe, gvng aPsalm o’ David, dance apip?, nick r mare’s t;»le, ca the kirn, huvit a l|Irfisrikt cny *n* o’ ray weight is a’ Craiglc*'"I here, an aaid bearded eura'.nfer, cite cad me her)nan!Riiiy say frcin' that.day aH :ny sorrows began.ifirst Colly, ynir fallow, they banged in the stres!.(yr.e skia’d him and iann’d it for sheen to their fen;| cried, but they ca d rao a half-witted down,and they banter’d me aair, sair up and down.|>Tei.t my mistress and me, we ne’er could gvf ewee!,i’or bei- hard frosty looks would La’e frighted tii -deil.I (Spoken.)—I’or she liad a beard, by a the world'|t minded me o’ a billy goat, wi’ a kai! dried frcsiyjllace—Na, the smallest leg o’ mutton in a Carlislemarket would hac sair’d her, the cat, and n;e, for'i week; Dod, the very fo’k said we wore turneaildrous. The weans would hue come to the door,land made sic a noise, it might hac waken’d a corn ;'I' would hao gaen to the door and open’d it to thorn,1'j»t they would h^e cast stour in rny eeo, and cried,ill Daft Watty, daft Watty; when I saw that,4 packt up my clues, when my quarter was out,IjpVi’ my wage in my pocket I sauater’d about,[My left hart’ breek pocket they pickt in a fray,itAml my tiiteeu white Shillings they stole quireaway,nBesides my twa letters fiae Mither and Nan ;it Says the Carlisle lassies, We’ll Watty trapan.; ,|j ( Spoken.)—Twa forgers comes up to me, andI .says, Watty, wJll ye sign yonr name? Faith, says1, ye’ve gotten the wrong sow by the lug: for. Lord!1 eanna write. Then a braw fallow comes up mr/>, "ina stye, Watty, will ye list ? We'll either faa k’ ye a General or a Go moral. A General or aGomeral! na, faith says 1, I’ll be nane o’ them; |,I’H rather wear a coat o’ mv Mitber’s ain spiunin’ Iyet.y.\. ; ; ■ '*■ V. I SAnd wi’ my twa groats and twapence I’ll toddle \hame,And I’ll ne’er be a soger while Watty’s ray name.How my Father will’goul, and my Mitner will,stare,When I tell them poor Colly they’ll never see mair! iThey'll ban’ me a stool; as for Nan, she’ll be/faia.In hopes ne’er to part wi’ her Watty again.For the barn, the byre, and the auld hallow tree,Will a’ seem a* cronies whan- fklgin’ to see.(Spoken. J—But the sheep *11 no ken Watty’svoice now. And for ti e auld peet stack wo anceran about, it will a’ be burnt down by this time ;and as for Nanny, poor thing ! she’ll be married orbroken-hearted. But if a’ was at Craigleton at I *would ba’et, they’ll be sic eatin’ and drinkin’, snuff¬in', loupin’, jumpia’, and dancin’, and singin’. till a’be blue about us.Then amang my auld frien’s sic woa’ers I’ll tell;Sae I’ll awa haiiie, aiM I’ll near leave the Fell.'-“ ’.WILL YE GO TO THE TROSACHS.Original.Will go to the Evx Bvgktg, Mortou#■Will ye go to ths Trosichs, my Mary,And sail ’cross Loch Katrine say biua,Tliere nature’s wild graodear, my Mary,Is seen from the til! Ben Yen tiesSublime is the scene, v/hen at inorniug,. The sun smiles on new bom clayDispelling the mists and adorningThe loftjr Ben Ann with his ray.The doe leaves hi^ leaf-cover’d dwellisgThe glens and the mountains to resin;The huntsman his bugle is swelling,When leaving at meaning his boms.When the sun, rising high in Ids glory,Sheds lustre and brightness sublime,We’ll wander ’mid rocks wild and hoary,Ner think on the swiftness of time.Ere the shades of the ev mug approach us.Again to the ineunt&ins we’il stray,And there on the lofty Ben Ledie, ,Bid adieu to the glories of day.Come then to the Trosachs, my Mary,And sail on Loeh Katrine wi’ me :The scenes are delightful, my Mary,But more so enliven'd by thee.Blue Bonnets Over The Eohslr.March, march, Ettriek and Teviotda'e,Why the deil dinna ye march k r ward in order fMa*ch, march, Eskdaie and Liddcsdale,A’ the blue bonnets are boUnd for the Border.Ni ■ ' ,, ./GMany a banner spread,Flatters above your head,' laay a ci'cet that is tktnous in story,Mount, and make ready then,Sous of the mountain glen,T %l>t for the Queen and our old Scottish glory !March, march, Sons of Dumfries-shire.,Wigton and Galloway march in good order;MevcJl, march, Nithedale suid AnnaudaksA' the blue bonnets me bound for the Border.Claymores are drawing now,Scotia’s sons bend the bow ;5; a ad to your arms then, and march in goodorder;March every Scottish clan,Tell ilka Southeran1 hat the blue bonnets are over the Border.("Otue from the hills where your hirsels are graa*i“g.Come from the glen of the buck and the roe ;Come to the crag where the beacon is blazing,Conte with the buckler, the lance, and the hew.Trumpets are sounding,War-steeds are bounding,•Siimcl to your c.nus then, and march in goodorder;England shall many a dayTell of the bloody fray,'W hea the blue bonnets came over the Burmr.SIR WALTER SCt)f tDOWN THE BURN DAVIE.WHEN trees did bud, and fields were green,And broom bloom’d fnir t® fee;When Mary was complete fifteen.And lore laugh,d in her eye;Biyrh Davie’s blinks her heart did rnov®To speak her mind thus free,frw>:‘j down the burn, Davit, love.And"I shall folloio thee.Now Davie did each lad surpass,That dwelt on this burn-side,And Mary was the bonniest lass,j iist meet to be a bride ;Her cheeks were rosy, "red, and white,Her een were bonny blue ;Her looks were like Aurora bright,Her lips like dropping dew,/.s down the burn they took their wey,What tender tales they said !liis cheeks to hers they aft did jtiy.And will) her bosom play’d ;Til! baith at length impatient grown,To he mair fi lly blest,In yonder vale they loan’d them down ;Love'only saw the re^t. .What pass’d I guess was harmless play,And neath,: tg'sure unmeet;•j.8For, gaigin* hame, I beard them sayThey lik’d a wauk .see .sweel;And that they aff«u shou'd retuinSic plensure to renew.Quoth Mary. Love, I like the burn.Ami ay shall follow yott.. FINIS,