THE M l G H T Y .-G O B.!* —   | . E* R M O N ^P R 'fe'A C H E D BY‘tm REV WILLIAM DYER,j' Jtinifter of the Gofpel at Chefoam and| Clocdefbury in the County of Bucks.CANJICLES V. 16.HE IS ALTOGETHFR. LOVELY.EF.Y PROPER. TO BE READ ALONG WITH DR. ^‘GILL'SESSAY ON THE DEATH OF CHRIST.GLASGOW,»RINTED BY J & M. ROBERTSON:SaltrnEt-ket, :Sco,THE MIGHTY GOD.Cant. v. 16.—‘ He is .altogether level]Do&rine,—4 That Jefus Chriit is ini1 nitely and fuperlatively lovely.*EARLY beloved, one of Chrilthjtitles is, ‘ The mighty GOD:|you have it in Ifa. ix. q. there iicalled ‘the mighty God.’ Chrifl: is a|King,—a King above all kings, and aljKing over all kings, and the King otkings, and that his laws are molt e*qual, his fubjedts moft happy, havingno other tax laid upon them than loveand fear.This title holdeth him forth, notonly as a great KI\TG, but as a greatGOD, before whom, all kings andkingdoms are but as little drops, or aSfmall duft, Ifa. xl. 15. From this title:* the mighty God,’ I fhall lay downthis proportion, ‘ that Jefus Chrift is4 true and perfedt God.’—That JefusChrilt is true and perfedt God, that isthe*point I lhalJ inilft upon.There are two forts of people in theworld that deny my dodlrine, whodeny the Deity of Jefus Chrift, whofay the feeond Perfoa of the Tri aityis not God,THE MIGHTY GOD. 3Firfl:,The unbelieving Jews,if Chrifthad come as the Jews dreamed, as agreat Monarch, treading upon no-j thing but crowns and fceptres, and thenecks nf kings, and had all the poten-I tates of the earth to attend his train ;I fay, had Chrift come in this world-ty glory, pomp, and power, then it »may be the Jews would have believed ?on him ; may be then he ftiould havebeen their God, but now, beloved, be-^caufe Chrift came poorly and meanly,and ‘ made himfelf of no reputation,‘ and took upon him the form of a fer-‘ vant,’ as the fcripture faith, ’Phil, in7. He took none of his gallantry, no^e,of his bravery upon him, but 4 made4 himfelf of no reputation:’ And there¬fore the Jews, flighted him, and dif-owned him. The Turks mock us atthis day with our crucified God ; 4 O,’fay they, 4 You worfhip a crucified* God and fome of the Heathens fay,1 They would not believe in a hanged4 God.’ O bleifed Jesus, thus artthou reproached and defpifed by theunbelieving world, becaufe thou cam-eft poorly, and diedit fhamefuliy forour fins. They wrho defnife the deathof the Lamb, fhall furely feel the wrath4 THE MIGHTY GOD.of the Larab: They who turn away ||their ears from hearing Chrift’s voiceMnow, Chrift will turn away histearsiiifrom hearing their cries then.Secondly, There be others that de-Hnyvthe Deity of Chrift; and there areifome feditious ones in this nation, whopfay, ‘ That Chrift is but mere man, J‘ and that every faint is as much God I‘ as Chriftand further they fay,‘That!‘ to equal Chrift with God is high!s blafphemy.’ They that will not ownChrift at his firft coming, Chrift willnot own them at his fecond coming,they that will not obey the truth ofGod revealed from heaven unto them,lhall fhffer the wrath of God revealedfrom heaven again ft them.Oh ve blafphemers, ye fay the Sonis not God, The Father faith, he isGod ; now who fpeaks true, God oryou? ‘ let God be true and every man‘ a liar.’ That it is fo,. I fhall give youmore clear proofs. Exprefs fcripturefpeaks it forth, that fefus Chrift istrue and perfedl God, Tic ii. 13. faiththe apoftle there, 4 looking for the blef-6 fed hope and glorious appearance of4 the great God.’ Mark, Chrift; is herenot only called God. but great God.THE MIGHTY GOD. 5Oh, faints, he that came from heavento make us righteous, wili alfo comefrom heaven to make us glorious,‘look-* ing for the blefled hope, and glorious* appearing of Jefus Chrift not onlyfo, but Chrill is alfo called * mighty‘ Godnay, not only mighty God,but again, 4 God bieffed for ever.’Chrifl: is 4 God blelfed for ever.’ Rom.ix. 5. Not only blelfed for ever, butI the 4 true God,’ 1 John v. 20. JefusI Chrift is there called the 4 true God,’(not only the true God, but a 4 God for4 ever and ever.’ Heb. i. 8. Mark there,4 unto the Son,’ he faid, 4 Thy throne* is for ever and ever.’The Father himfelf calls the SonGod, and therefore well may we. Un¬to the Son he faid, 4 Thy throne, O4 God, is for ever and ever.’ Thuslyou fee the doctrine fully proved, thatJefus Chrift is the true and perfectGod. But beloved, becaufe the Deityof Chrift is fq much qv.eftioned at thisday, and this being one of the feriousand chiefeft points in divinity, there¬fore 1 fhail give you forme confidera-tions, or demonftrations, or arguments,to fortify \ou againft this great error; before named. I'irft, That Jefus Chrift6 THE MIGHTY GOD.is true and perfect God, he is for time,cO't'ternai; for nature, co-effential; fordignity, co-equal with his Father.Firft, For time, co-eternal, John xvii.3. ‘ G Father, glorify thou me with thy-fe If, with the glory which I had with theebefore the v/orld was.’ You fee here,firs, Chriil was before the world was,Chrift was from everlafting, from thebeginning, Pro. viii. 23. Speaking con¬cerning Chrift, ‘ I was fet up from e-* verlafting, from the beginning, be-* fore ever the earth was,’ And there¬fore Chrift is called ‘ the everlafting 11 Father.’ Ifa. ix. 6. So in Rev. i. 8.1Chrift there fpeaking of himfelf, faith,‘ Isam Alpha and Omega, the begin-* ning and the ending, which was, and I‘ is, and is to come, the Almighty.’)Mark, firs, Chrift is the fame beforetime, in time, and after time; whichwas, and is, and is to come.—Now be¬loved, none can be eternal but God ;but Chrift is eternal, and therefore hejis God, and co-eternal with his Father.Secondly, He is for nature co-effen-tiai; ‘ i and my Father are one,’ faithChrift, John x. 30. ‘ There are three4 that bear record in heaven, the Fa-‘ therj the Word, and the Spirit, and«rTHE MIGHTY GOD. 7tliefe three are one/ Mark here, theyre one, John xiv. 8. When Philip de-fres to fee the Father, ‘ Shew us theFatherland it is enough/ faith Chrifta ver. 9. and 10. ‘ He that hath feenline, hath leen the Father/—How fo?| for I am in the Father, and the Fa-ther is in me/—So that you fee Chrifts more than mere man: Fie is onevith the Father.—Oh, firs, he is The-iinthropos, God-man. If you makehe Son mere man, you muft make thefather fo too.Thirdly, He is for dignity co-equalwith the Father, Phil. ii. 6. ‘ Who be-1 ing in the form of God, thought itI not robbery to be equal with the Fa¬ll ther/ Chrid thought it no diminu-jnon of his Father’s glory, to be equal1 vith his Father in glory. And you (hallijurther find, that all the honour which!>dongs to God, the Father hath com-nanded us to give to the Son. Youlave a full text, John v. 23. 4 T hat allmen fhouid honour the Son, even asI they honour the Father ; for he thatI honoureth not the Son honoured! not .the Father.’ Therefore it is clear topvery eye, that Chrift is for dignity co¬equal with the Father ; for the lather!WttTI "i >   ' W -: ■'J „ F-—'8 THE MIGHTY GOD.hath commanded us to give the fanKhonour to Ghrid which is due to him:fo that it is no b afphemy at all, cer¬tainly, to equal Chrift with God,, fosin him afe the riches of the Deity, anciiall the fuinefs of the Godhead dwells jbodily in him : as you may fee. Col. ii, j9. This is the firft argument. He is foitime co-eternal, for nature, co-eirential|for dignity, co-equal with tiie Father. ISecondly, I ihall lay down this ar-|gument to prove the Deity of JefuJ:Ohrift : Confider the work of creation .:,furely he that made heaven and earth!muft needs be a God, you will yield tcthis ; fo faith the Lord himfelf—* Al!* the gods that have not made heaver‘ and earth, fhali perifb from the earth* and from under heaven,’ Jer. x. 11.—But now, beloved, Jefus Chrifl: made' the heavens and the earth and all thingstherein, and therefore he is God : feea few feriptures for this, John i. 3. ‘ Al4 things were made by him,’ mark, thisis by Chrirt, 4 all things were made by1 him, and without him was nothin4 made that was made.’ Col. i. 16. 4 B* him were all things created inheaverji and in earth, vifible and invifible4 all things were made by him, anTHE MIGHTY GOD. 9r for him.* So again, John i. 10. ‘ He! * was in the world, and the world waa* made by him, and the world Jcnew* him not.'—Now, beloved, had Chrift. been iefs than God, he could not havemade heaven and earth, and thereforehe is God of glory, the great God thatmovr fits upon the throne; for he cre¬ated the heavens and the e^rth, and allithings therein.Thirdly, That Chrift is the true andiperfe6l God, appears, if you confiderIthe works and miracles which he didiln the days of his*fleili; here is ano-jfther unanfwerable argument to proveilheGodhead of Jefus Chrift. The windsand the Teas obey him, the devils comerout of the poftefifed, the blind receivediheir fight, the lame walked, the deaffjieard, the dumb fpake, lepers werejjdeanfed, the dead were raifed, the fickjwere healed. Oh, who could do this.but God, as you may fee. Mat. xxi. 5.r3ut you may fay, the Apoftles did greatiniracles, and yet were not gods, why ?(t is true, they did great miracles, butin whofe name did they do them? Wast in their own names, and by theiriiwn power ? No, beloved, they them-elves confefs the contrary, Ads iv. io»io THE MIGHTY GOD.They tell you, it is not in their own Jpower, but in the name and power of]Jcftis Ohrift. So in Adis iv. iS. ‘Wei4 do in the name of Cltvitl/ So that, Ibeloved, this is a ftrong argument to jprove the. Deity of Ohrid; they did*great ^niracles in his name, and by his Ipower his difciples did great miracles. 1And with this jefus fatisfied the difci-!,pies of John, ‘ Go and tell what things !4 ye hear and fee, how the lame walk',!and the blind receive their fight; Go1 and tell John.’ Now, I fay, thefe greatthings could be done by none but bya great God; and therefore Jefus Chridis not only the^Son of man, but the Son jof God, even God bleded for ever.But Fourthly, Confider divine wor4ihip is due unto Chrid. Now you know,!worship is proper only to God. ‘ Wor-14 fhip him that made heaven and earth,!£ and the fea,’ laid the angel, Rev. xiv.^7. Wordiip only is proper to God a-ione. "Now, beloved, all the adls of wor4drip that belong to God the Father, are1given to the Son Jefus Chrid, both an-:,gels and men are commanded to wor¬ship him, as well as we, Heb. i 6. ‘ Let4 all the angels of God worlhip him :VAnd in Phil. ii. to. 4 That at the nameTHE MIGHTY GOD. n4 of Jefus every knee fliould bov,% botli‘ of all things in heaven and on earthmark firs, things in heaven, as wellas things on the earth, muft worihipChrilt; and Chrifi; himfelf faith, Johnxiv. i. 4 Ye believe in God, believe a!«4 fo in me ’—Mark, firs, fpeaking otthofe that believe in God, faith he, ‘ Ye4 believe in God, believe alfo in me.’—-Now, beloved, we are commanded topray to Chrifi, to glorify Chrift, to be¬lieve in Chrifi:, to honour Chrifi, andworihip Chrifi; and therefore the faintshave prayed, 4 Lord Jefus receive my4 fpirit,’ as Stephen did. So that youfee worihip is due to Chrift, both fromangels and men, and therefore he mu ftneeds be God.Fifthly, There be clear prediction ofthe coming of Chrifi under the OldTeftament. No (boner was man fallen,but'Chrifi: was promifed, 4 The feed of4 the woman {hail brurfe the ferpents4 head? All the'prophets foretold ofthe Messiah, Ifaiafi, Jeremiah, Hcfea,Daniel, Malachi, and the reft of them,how falfely he fhouLi be accufed, andhow bafely he ftiould be ufed, and thiswill be enough to condemn theainbe-lieving Jews, and make them fpecdh-V>2 THE MIGHTY-GvOD.Ufs irTthe great day of accounts. 1might give you the hayings of the fameprophets, but you may find them your-felves; fiearch the Old Teftament, andyou ill all find them all fpeak more orlefs of [efus Chrift. Thus { have clearlyproved by exprefs fcripture, and unde¬niable arguments, that Jefiis Chrifi: is* ^-4 t tr mmTHE MIGHTY GOD. 13:ond PER50N*he wore it; he was GodTianifeded in the fielh; and this is ajreat myftery. And truly, firs, it is aIjreat my fiery for happinefs to beco ne1 curfe, Gal. iii. For him that made thejingels, to become lower than the an¬gels, Heb. ii. For the Creator to becomei creature: for him that haa the rich-r-s of all in him, to become poor. Oh!':hls is a great myflery, that he whom;he heaven of heavens cannot contain,lis glory fhould be wrapt up in thetags of fleili; that the great God Ihouldtake upon him a piece of earth ; thatfie who hangs the earth upon nothing,’ihould ha^g upon a crofs between twothieves, truly a great mvftery : Thatfie who rules the ftars fliould fuck thebreads: That he who thunders in theclouds, fliould be cradled in a manger.Oh ! a great myftery, that Abraham’siLord fliould become Abraham’s fon ;tjthat the God of Abraham fhould takeupon him Abraham’s feed; what a my¬ftery is this ? he was conceived in thebowels of his mother, that he mightbe received into the bofom of his Fa-Jther. ‘ Therefore,’ faith the apoftle," without controverfy, great is the my-‘ fiery of godlinefs, God manifelled inr14 THE MIGHTY GOD.‘ the flefh.’ God’s Son become mafon, that we poor man’s Tons mbbecome God’s fons.But fecondly, Is jefusChrlil trus tperfect God ? My fecond iriferencthis. That Jefus is a precious God:is honey in the mouth, beauty m teye, joy in the heart, and malic in tear “ Let all their money perith wi“ them, who eftee n ail the gold in t44 world worth one day’s locietv wit“ Jefsis Cliri[>,” faid a great Marquwhen he was tempted with money.Oh! firs, Ch^ift’s members are tlihappieft, GhrilVs comforts are tffwee-efl:, Chrift’s reward is the higheft, Chrift’s precepts ate the pureiHChrift’s. glory is the greateft, Chriftflove is the trueft, Chrift’s riches ai|the moft precious, he is the glory cGod, the paradife of angels, the beadty of heaven, the redeemer of metin Heb. i. 3. he is there called ‘ th4 brightnefs of his Father’s glory his the rich jewel in the cabinet of glcry, he is the Iparkling pearl, whofoever hath him cannot be poor, buwhofoever wants him cannot be richflThirdly, If Chri t be true and pefeft God, then Chrift’s members ar- rnmTHE MIGHTY GOD. 15the greateft and happieft; if CariH: is^ God Almighty^s only Son, believers areGod Almighty’s only daughters Youread of God’s daughters in Pfal xiv,|Chrift is the King, believers are theiqueen; Car ill is the bridegroom; be¬lievers are the bride; Chrift is the, Lamb, believers are his wife, Rev. xxi.9 What (hall I fay ? the angels in glo-iry are in a very glorious (late, and y^tlet me tell you, believers in Ohrid behigher than angels ; they are fervants,i are members ; they be the friendsI of the bridegroom, we are the bride ;! they have their perfonal glory, we havejthe fame glory for fubftance with Je-jfus Cbrift, John xvii, 22. 4 The glory‘ which thou hail given me,’ faithI Chrift, I have given them.’ Believers: be nearer the throne than angels; and!this doth wonderfully fpeak out thatwe are higher than the angels in Rev.v. The four beads are nearer the thronethan the angels.Obeloved, how are believers ad-1 vanced! how high are we become, poorduft and allies to be above angels! andJ this is the greateft happin fs which we■get, by Chrift’s afth uing our naturefor the falvation of our fouls.i6 THE MIGHTY GOD.Aga:n, Cii*id’s members be not on¬ly thj greatefl, but the happiefl: ourrenewed condition is as good in Chrift,as it was bad in Adam. Oh! firs, wewere no more curfed out of Chrift, thanwe were blefTed in Chrift; Chrift is asfull of life, as Adam was full of death; iChrifi: is as full of fweetnefs to us, as jAdam was of bitternefs to us. Trulyfoul, if thou fay Chrifi is thine; I will Ifpeak n^xr and fay, Soul thou haft ithat which is more worth than a king’sranfom ; that which is more worth •than all that which the devil promifedChrift, when he (hewed him ail the f.kingdoms of the world. Oh! the hap- npinefs of poor believers ! ‘ there is no ».‘ condemnation to them that are in j‘ Chrift Jefus,’ faith Paul, Rom. viii.I. Therefore they are happy.But Fourthly, Chrift Jefus is true |and perfedl God, Then we infer from,hence, that God’s love and good-will Ito mankind was very great. That Je- jfus Chrift fhould come from heaven totake our nature, that we might be par¬takers of the divine nature ; Chrift tookupon him our fhame, that we might be i.partakers of his glory. One drop ofhis blood is worth a fea of ours, andTHE MIGHTY GOD. 17yet he died our death, that we mightlive his life; he fuffered our hell, that1 we might enjoy his heaven. Oh! how[infinitely did he love us! He enduredthe foreft pains, that we might enjoythe fweereft pleafures. The fcripturetells us, that he came leaping; he cameiwith fuch'a good-will; he came leap¬ring ; as you know when a man goesleaping, you may know that it waswith a good-will: he came leaping andflapping, Cant. ii. 8. ‘ He came leap-‘ ing upon the mountains, and fkip-* ping upon the hills.’ “ Leaping,” faithGregory, how fo! “ Why,” faith he,r from the throne to the womb, fromr the womb to the crac le, from the:<t cradle to the crofs, and from thenceto the throne again ; this was hisleap.” Oh! firs, oh! firs, how muchid this Jelus fuflfer for poor belte-ers! he was hanged upon the crofs onomit Calvary, that he might fit onhe throne in Mount Sion.3. Ufe. Secondly. By way of exhor-Itation; ifl:, To finners, to unbelievers,ho grace ids perfo’s, I have a few words|:o fay Oh ! firs, oh! firs, methirks Ihan not but do towards you as Chrifli8 THE MIGHTY GOD.did once towards Jerufalem, when he {came near the city, he wept over it.— nTruly, {inner, your date is a weeping Jdate ; your date is a miferable date ; Jyou ly open to all the wrath, all the |vengeance, all the curfes under heaven.O poor miferable finners, cannot youpity yourfelves ? The Lard of heavenpity you. Did Jefus Chrid come fromheaven to you dnners, and will notyou come out of your iin, to come toChidt ? Did Chrid come from his Fa¬ther’s fcofom, and leave his throne andcrown, and all his glory, to come to apoor lod world, and to die and differ’ ihere for poor lod finners : and what .finners, will this make no impredion .upon you? Let me tell you, firs, Chrid ,came into the wTorld, for no other end Pand reafon, but only to die for poorfinuers. It wras the great defign of ,Chrid to fave poor fi'nners. birr., If you, .will not credit me, look into the tcnp-ture, and then (finely you will bcxlieve ,it, i Tim. i. 15. ‘ fhis is a faithful fay-* mg,’ faith rhe apodle, ‘ and vvorihy* of ail accefrtalion, "that Jefus Cfiuid .*• came into the v/orld ro fave finnexs.’ .Mark, firs, He came into the world‘ to fave finners.’ Chrid hanged upo-n 1n—.Mgle clef's ?.nd v ept upon the crofs, andled upon the crofs, to have finners; itfas for poor fmners, all the hardlhips,11 the vranrs, all the trials and fufFer-)gs Vvhicli he met v-.ith ; it was forte fake of poor finners. Chrif. hathifiered all this woe and mifery fortee ; and wilt not thou leave thyshearing, and thy drunkenntfs, andfly wickednefs, for Chrift? O! the fad,rfd day that is coming on thee ?' howtnfl thou anfwer this before God Al-ighty, that Jefus Chrift the King ofpings, fhould come into the wrorld, andbale hirnfelf fo much, as to be in a?lean ftate, and yet that this IhoultlJothing affetft you! Oh ! who will pithou when you are damned? when youTe howling and roaring in hell? thatkould not pity yourfelves! Oh! for the'lord’s fake, cenfider that God ftiouldibme and take our nature, and that hemould take our rags, that we mighttear his robes ? And what 1-Will youither remain in your fins, and die,nan come to Chrift for life? 0 2 fin-Her, for the Lord’s fake, pot off yourjjeggars rags, -that you may put on hisj>vely robes.I have read of Alexander the Great,¥20 THE MIGHTY GOD.that when he came againft a city, huied to fet up a candle, and if theyielded before the candle was out, the)Ihould have quarters, but if they ftooout, they might expedt nothing buhanging, drawing and quartering. Ohfirs, Chi id fets up a candle to thee, anif thou wilt come in to-day, thou lhalhave mercy, or elfe there will be noneIf all the angels and faints in heavenfhould fall upon their knees, and layOh! Lord, fpare this poor creature, ondram of mercy for him, it would nobe regarded, the Lord will not hear]them: And therefore, for the Lord’^fake confider, men are lenten ced, noti^only for their finfulnefs, but for theirflothfulnefs j men may perilh for beingfervants that are unprofitable, as welas for finners that are abominable. Methinks you fhould take as much delightin thofe precepts that enjoin holmefsas in thofe promifes that allure happi-neis ; if the day of mercy leave youg» ac:elefs, the day of judgement willfi ,d you fpcechlels ; tho’ you may re-li<l ihe judgement he lays before you*!yet you can never refift the judgement:that he lays upon you ; there is noftsmaing before Cnrift, but by HandTHE MIGHTY GOD. 21jig in Chr^ft. Ungodly men fear no/rath, becaufe they feel no wrath; be-iaufe the fin is unpuriilh^d, they thinkhere is no punifhment for their fins ;jiecaufe he goeth on to fpare them,theyo on to provoke him; as he adds toheir lives, they add to their lulls; be¬anie he is very merciful, they will beery finful; becaufc he is very good,ley will be very bad; becauie jufliceinks, men think he is blind ; becaufee doth not reprove them for their fins,therefore they think he doth approve:em in their fins. Jullice will avengele quarrel of abufed mercy; the lon-;r God forbears, not fi ding amend-ient, the forer he flrikes when heimes to judgement.Oh ! finners, though the patience of"Sjod be lading, it is not everiaftmg;: by the warning-pf ce of God, youe not alarmed, you lhall be conlum-j;; the longer God is fetching about■y hand, the heavier will be the blow2ien it comes ; ‘ 1 gave her fpace toppent oi her fornication, but Ihe re¬tented notwhat follows ? ‘ Behold■will call her in o a bed, and theyaat commi: adultery with her,’ Rev.21, 22. The day that begins in mer-22THE MIGHTY GOD.cy may end in judgement.^ God islent fo long as our fins will let himquiet; but know that God hath viof .wrath filled with indignation, fvefiels of wrath fitted for dellruclioIf God’s mercy do not draw you to ijpentance, God’s judgements will dryou to deilruction ; the lea of damrfjtion lhall not be fwcetened with a driof compaflion.Oh !, finners, either feek out a fiour to deliver you from the wrath.God, or elfe find out a Ihoulder to byou up under the wrath ox Godthat you would confider your whath not God faid, ‘ That no fweaifl:‘ nor drunkard, nor whoremonger, ij‘ adulterer, {hall entermnto the kii|‘ dom of heaven; and l®:h are fomel‘ youGod know? ir, and your oficonfciences know it; and yet you £|ter yourfelves, and fpeak peace to ycH',fclves, v/hen God fpeaks not a wr|of peace to yoxr. Oh, finners, thinM:this before the bottomlefs pitihut her mouth upon you: Oh, dc|longer forget God and your own |:varion, Heb. ii. 3. * How lhall w^|* cape, if we neglft fo great falvati*if you negledt the great falvation,»THE MIGHTY GOD. 23cannot; efcapa the great damnation.Secondly, Believers, let me befeechj you to (land faft, and to hold fad that.(which you have already, Rev, ii. 19.!c Be thou*faithful unto d$ath, and Ii4 will give thee at* crown of life.’ He(hath a crown for runners, but a curieTor runaways. As you look for happi-tnefs as long as God hath a being inheaven: fo God looketh for holinds astong as you have a being on earth. Asmany as walk according to this rule,peace be on them, Gal. vi. 16. To treadIn any other path on earth, it is but totniftakc your way to heaven : WhiUl(you are on this udeof eternity,you mud• paid the fceptre of grace in your handsIjill God feijtho crown of g'o^v uponyour heads fThis is the fparkhng dia¬mond that is fet in the apodle’s crown,i: Tim. iv. 7. 4 I have fought a goodlifight,-I have finifhed my courfe, I havelikept the faith.’ u believers ! it willjjre your happinefs, your glory, yourton our another day, if in this day you|e found faithful. O! do not turn youriacks upon the truth-, of Go^ as tooiiany in our days have done ; theyave gone from one religion unto all,111 at lad they have gone from all re-24 THE MIG HT Y G O D.ligions unto none: Tha^t'|iian’s beginninwas in hypocrify, whofe^id’ls in apoftaqIndifferency in religion, is the next rtep tapoftacy from religion.O!. do not make Him a {lone of flumling, that (Jod hath made a ftdhe for build!ing: If the golden-chain of tluty will not holfyou,the iron-chain of darknefs fhall find yo\if you abufe your liberty in one world, yo!will lofe your liberty in another: If youhaimade as much confcience in your liberty, ayou have had liberty for your confciencehad been well. That foul was never relateto Chrift, that was never devoted to Chrithere is. no obtaining the prize of happinel:without running the race of holinefs.Oh! for the Lord’s fake, do not you bgin in the Spirit, and en<iin the flelh. Onot put your hand to the plough and loibackward; be not true to the father of liand falfe to the God of truth; keep ciofe f!the Son of God, to the Word of God, to tl; tOrdinances of God, to the Day of God, tthe Minifters of God, to the People of Go>»and thou wilt be fafe. Gal. vi. 9. * Be n6 weary in well-doing, for in due feafon yp‘ {hall reap, if you faint not.* I fhall wind t|all witfy that faying of Ignatius, They wl j“ adhere to them, who adhere not to trut“ {hall leyer inherit the kingdom of GodF I N I S.Glftfgow ,Printed by J. 6t<M. Robsrtibn, Saltmarket, iSSj