THELIFE AND DEATHO FFair Rofamond,Concubine to K. Henry the ItGLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. R O B E R TS O N,Saltmarket, iSooc( 2 )The Life and death of Fair ROSAMOND,WHen as King Henry rul’d this land,the fecond of that name;Befules the queen, he loved dear,a fair and comely dame.Moft pcerlefs was her beauty found,her favour a'd her face ;A fweeter creature in the world,could never prince embrace.!Her crifped lo^ks. like threads of gold,appear’d to each nun’s fight.Her comely eyes like orient pearl,did caft a heavenly light.The blood within her chryflal cheeks,did fuch a colour drive.As tho* the Hly and the rofefor maile'ffhip did ftrive.I Fair Rofamond, Fair Rofamond,her name was called to.To whom dame bleanor our Queen,was known a deadly foeThe king therefore for her defence,againlt the furious queen,At Woodftock builded (uch a bower,the like w?s never lecn.Moft curiouuy that bower was bunt,of (lone and timber ftrong.An hundred and fifty doors,did to this bower belong.And they fo cunningly contriv’d,with turnings round about,That none without a clue of thread,could enter in or out.Now for his love and lady’s fake,who was both fair and bright,The keeping of this bower he gave,unto a vahant Knigbt-But fortune that doth often frown,where it before did fmileThe king's delight the lady’s joy,full foon flic did beguile.For why, the king’s ungracious, fon,whom he did high advance,Againft his father raifed wars,within the realms of France.v But yet before our gracious king,the Englilh land forlook,Of Rolamoml his lady fair,his farewel thus he took;My Rofamond, my only Role,who- pleafeth bdl mine eye.The fairei't flower m all the world,to feed my phantafy.Ihe Sower of my affcded. heartywhole fweetnefs doth c xcel.My royal role an hundred times,I bid you now farewei.For 1 mud leave my faired rofe,my fweetell role a fpace,And crois the ocean into France,,proud rebels to debafe.But dill my rofe, be fore thou lhain,j toy coming Ihortly Isc,!Ano in my heart when hence I am9I’ll bear my spfe with me.^rhen Rofamond, the lady bright,did hear the king fay fo,The lorrows .of her grieved heart,her outward looks did Ihow,from heR clear-and chrydal eyes,i t! e t-ars.gulhM out apace,iVhoMt like the filver pearly dew,ran >:own her comely face,ie? lips- like to the coral red,!|. did wax both wan and pale,\nd for the for row foe conceiv’d,] her vital fpirits failktid fallfofr down into a fwoon,before Kbicr i-forty’s facefull oft within bis prtreely arms,.b.ody didilVnd twenty times with wat'ry eyes9,he kifs’d her tender cheek.Until he had reviv’d again, #: her fpirit mild and tneek.,.(Why grieves my rofe ? my fweeteft rofe,the king did often fay,iBeeaufe taid file, to bloody wars,my lord mult oafs awayiSut fince your grace in foreign parts,amongft your foes unkind,Muft go to hazard life and limb,w! y muft t Itay behind.iNay, rather let me, like a page,thy {word and target bear,IThat on my b’-ead the blow may light,,,that Ihall offend my dear.. .;0 let me in your royal tent, .prepare your bed at night,^n" with fweet baths refreih you there,as you return from fight,!So I your prefence may enjoy,no toil I will relufe:;But wanting you my life is death,.,which doth true love abufe.I Consent thyfeif my deareft love,thy reft at home Ihall he.In Fngland’s, fwTeet and ) leafing court,ior ua.yels.ht not thcs*Fair Ladies brook not bloody wars,fweet peace “heir pleafnre breed.The nourifher of hearts content,whole fancy firft did feed.My rofe IhaU reft in \Voodftoclc bower,with raufic's fweet delight.While » among the piercing pikes,agahift my foes do fight.My rofe in robts of pear! and gold, •with diamonds rich and bright.Shall dance the galliarris of my love,while i my foes do finite.And you. Sir Thomas, whom I truft,to be my love’s defence;Be caref ul of my gallant rofe,when i am parted hence.And here withal be fetch’d a figh,as tho* his heart would break.And Rofamond for very grief,not one plain word could fpeak.And at their parting well they might,in heart be grieved fore,After that day fair Rofamondthe king did fee no more.For when his grsce paired the feas,and into France was gone,Queen b leaner with envious heart,to Wooditock came r.nen.( 7 )' ■ . .^nd forth (he calls the trufty koight,! who kept this curious bowerLnd with a ciii“ of twified thread,came fro a th:s famous flower.4ut when that they had wounded him,the qu"en his thread did get,ir.d went where 1 ■ y Rofamond,was like an angel fct.ilut when the queen with ftedfaft eyes,behdd this love'y face,lihe was amazed in her mind,at fuels exceeding grace.i'aft • IF fas i (he, thefe -fine wrought robes,that rich and ; oltly be;Vnd drink vou up this deadly draught,which I have brought to thee.ilut prefentlv upon her knees,fair Rofamond did fall,ind pardon of rhe queen (he crav’d,j for her ofl nees ail.sfakc puv on my vourhful years,, ta-r Rofu nood did cry\nd let me not witn poifon flrong,be forced for to die.I will renounce my finful life,L and i’t lome cloiRer hide,i)r elfe be baoiflx’d if you pleafe,to range the world fo wide.' ( s >And fure the fault which [ have don’e,I was forced thereunto,Preferve my hfe, and punilh me,as you think fit to do.And with thefe words her lily hands,flie wrnn^ full often there,And down alon^ her comely face,proceeded many a tear"But nothing cduld this furious queetit,herewith appeafed beThe cup of deadly poifon flrong,which (he held on her kneeShe gave this comely dame to drink,who took it from her hand.And from her bended k ees arofe,and on her feet did (land.When cafHng up her eyes to heav'n,fhe did for mercy callAnd drinking up the poifon flrong,fhe loft her life withal.And when that death thro’ ev*ry limb,had done its greatefl fpiteHer chiefeft foes could but confefs,fhe was a glorious fight.Her body then they did entomb,when life was fled awayAt vVbodflock. near to Oxford town,as may be feen this day.Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, Saltmarket, it*