THELife anti *MUventure®OF THAT NOTORIOUSHafotm aiiO IHurOctct,IICHARD TURPIN,WITH AN ACCOUNT OF HISEXECUTIONt Tyburn, on the 10th April, 1739, for HorseStealing and Murder.GLASGOW :v. & ft. rx&iiis & co.,5, MELVILLE PLACE, 132, TRONGATE.r. ^ »4 it t M f *41% lilt S4 ^ \ -r joisotov! r/ - t • ■iiddo^.HIIfiUT BIIAH81RJI TKU030A V.fc Hl'-'-fir. »i t u j a x ar.ioH ioi ,i>€TI Ji.qA rfjOi s xio tfnudxTnab'. N- * •’•'■sIb* ■%THELife and Exploits..;! v t t •onof ’jo) Q£r rfmujT jJoK *.OFRICHARD TURPIN,Tl»e Higliwayman,The villian commonly called Dick Turpinmust be regarded as one of the most distin¬guished public characters familiar to thecountry in which he figured ; at all events,it a happy circumstance that few “ publiccharacters” a phrase to which individuals ofa certain ‘ order’ have evinced strong at¬tachment) have become so distinguished asthe delinquent whose history we are abouttorelate in the following pages, and it no less4fortunate that some of our public characters(using the term in the sense referred to) havebeen equally distinguished for their virtus,as Turpin and his compeers have been fortheir deeds of abomination; though theblackest crimes touch the public mind moreforcibly, and not less transiently, than thebrighest amiabilities, the latter being limiteeto the circle in which the possessor movedwhile the former is rung in heavy numbersupon the lisfening ear of the populace at large,wqo catch the sounds as they vibrste withthe tensest anxiety and perturbation.Dick Turpin was for a long time the dreadof travellers on the Essex road, an accountof the daring robberies he daily committed ;he was also a noted housebreaker; and thoughfor a considerable time remarkably success¬ful in his desperate career of robbery he wasbrought to an ignominious end, by circum¬stances which, in themselves, may appeartrifling: he was apprehended in consequenceof shooting a fowl; and his brother refusingto pay Qd. for the postage of his letter oc¬casioned his conviction. He was the son ofa farmer and grazier at Thaxted, in Essex,the placej)f his birth ; and, having receiveda common school education, he was appren¬ticed to a butcher in White-chapel, in whosehoyse he was conspicuous for gross impro¬priety of behaviour, and brutality of manners.On the expiration of his apprenticeship, atthe persuasion of his friends, who hoped sucha course would restrain his evil pursuits, hewedded a young woman of East Ham, in5//Essex, named Hester Palmer, of a respect¬able family : but he had not been long mar¬ried before he took to the practice of stealinghis neighbours’ cattle, which he used to killand cut up for sale.Having stolen two oxen belonging to Mr.Giles, of Plaistow, he drove them to his ownhouse; but two of Giles’s servants, suspect¬ing who was the robber, went to Turpin’s,where they saw two carcases correspondingwith the beasts which had been lost: as thehides were stripped from them, it was im¬possible to say that they were the same : butlearning that Turpin used to dispose of hishides at Waltham Abbey, they want thither,and saw the hides of the beasts that had beenstolen; when, no doubt remaining as to whowas the robber, a warrant was procured forthe apprehension of Turpin, who learningthat the peace-officers were in search of him,made his escape from the back Atinddow ofhis house at the very moment the otherswere enteaing the door. Having retreatedto a place of security, he found means to in¬form his wife where he was concealed; onwhich she furnished him with money, whenbe travelled into the hundreds of Essex,where he joined a gang of Smugglers, withwhem he was for some time successful, tilla set of the custom-house officers, by onesuccessful stroke, deprived him of all his ill-acquired gains, IBs association with thesesmugglers commenced under strange circum¬stances : at a loss, in his retirement, to findmeans of replenishing his pocket, he hit upon■6the expedient of robbing the smugglers hemight meet on the road, taking care not toattaek a gang, but only a solitary traveller,as chance might throw such in his way ; andeven then his robbery was effected with ashow of justice, as he represented himself tobe deputed by the customs, and seized theproperty in the king’s name.Thrown out of this kind of business, heformed one of a gang of deer-stealers, theprincipal part of whose depredations werecommitted on Epping Foresf and the parksin its neighbourhood; but this business notsucceeding to the expectations of the robbers,they determined to commence housebreakers.Their plan was to fix on houses which theypresumed contained any valuable property ;and while one of them knocked at the door,the others were to rush in, and seize what¬ever they might deem worthy of their notice.The first attack of this .dnd was at the houseof Mr. Strype, an old man, who kept a chand¬ler’s shop at Watford', whom they robbed ofall the money and other valuables in his pos¬session, buf without offering the inmatesany personal abuse.In one night this gang robbed Chinkfordand Barking churches of all the moveablesleft in the vestries; but the plate at bothp! bees'be frig in the hands of the respectivechurchwardens, they got an indifferentbooty. Turpin and some ofhis companionschided the search that was made after them :three of the gang, however, were taken, oneof whom turned evidence. the other twowe*e transported.7Turpin nest acquainted his associatesthat there was an old woman at Leighton,\s ho was in possession of a great sum ofmoney, which he was sure was hoarded inher house ; whereupon, agreeing to rob herthey proceeded to her house, when one ofthem knocked at the door ; and the restforcing their way into the house, tied hand¬kerchiefs over the eyes of the old womanand her maid, and fastened a boy, her son,to the bedstead. This being done, Turpindemanded what money was in the house;and the owner hesitating to tell him, hethreatened to set her on the fire if she didnot make an immediate discovery: stillshe declined to give them any information ;on which the villains actually placed her onthe fire, where she sat till anguish compelledher to discover her hidden treasure; whenthe robbers possessed themselves of above400/. and decamped with the booty.Some little time after this they agreed torob the house of a farmer at Rippleside, nearBarking; and knocking at tne door, the[>eople declined to open it; on which theybroke it open; and having bound the farmer,his wife, his son-in-law, and the servant-maid, they robbed the house of about700/, which delighted Turpin so much thathe exclaimed, “ Ay, this will do ! this isthe thing, if it would but always be so ! ’’and the robbers retired with their prize,which amounted to above 80/. a man.This desperate gang, flushed With successnow determined to attack the house of8Mr. Mason, keeper of Epping Forest; anrttne time was fixed for carrying the plan intoexecution; but Tnrpin having gone to Lon¬don to spend Ins share of the former booty,intoxicated himself to such a degree, that hetotally neglected the appointment. Never¬theless, three ot the gang (Fielder, Rose, andKust) resolved that the absence of theircompanion should not frustrate the proposedeesign; and having taken a solemn oath tobreak every article of furniture in Mason’shouse, they set out on their expedition.Having gained admission, they beat andkicked the unhappy man with great severity,finding an old man sitting by the fire-side,they permitted him to remain uninjured;the daughter of Mr. Mason escaped theirfury, by running out of the house, andtaking shelter in a pig-sty. After ransac¬king the lower part of the house, and doingmuch mischief, they went up stairs, wherethey broke everything that came in theirwa.v among the rest a china punch-bowl,from which dropped 120 guineas, with whichthey immediately decamped. They set outtor London, in search of Turpin, with whomthey shared the booty, though he had nottaken an active part in the execution of thevillany.On the 11th of January, 17S5, Turpin andfive of his companions went to the house ofMr. Saunders, a wealthy farmer of Charlton,in Kent. Arriving between seven and eighto’clock in the evening, they knocked at thedoor, and inquired if Mr. Saunders was athome. Being answered in the affirmative,they rushed into the house, and found Mr.Saunders, his wife, and a fewT friends, play¬ing at cards in the parlour. They told thecompany that they should remain uninjured,if they made no disturbance. Having madeprize of a silver snuff-box which lay on thetable, a part of the gang stood guard overthe company, while the others compelledMr. Saunders to accompany them throughthe house, whence they stole above 100/.,exclusive of plate and other articles, whichamounted to a considerable value. Duringthese transactions, the servant-maid ran upstairs, and, barring the door of her room,called out, “ Thieves!” with a view of alarm¬ing the neighbourhood ; but the robbersbroke open the door of her room, securedher, and then robbed the house of all thevaluable property they had not before taken.Finding some minced pies, and some bottlesof wine, they sat down to regale themselves ;and meeting with a bottle of brandy, theycompelled each of the company to drink aglass of it; when, on Mrs. Saunders faintingthrough terror, they administered some dropsin water to her, and recovered her to the useof her senses. Having stayed in the housea considerable time, they packed up theirbooty and departed ; having first declared,that if any of the family gave the least alarmwithin two hours, or advertised the marks ofthe stolen plate, they would ere long returnand murder them.On the 18th of the same month, they wentto the house of Mr. Sheldon, at Croydon, inSurrey, where they arrived about seven in10the evening. Having got into the yard,they perceived a light in the stable, wherethey found the coachman attending hishorses.Having bound him, they quitted the stable,and met Mr. Sheldon in the yard, whomthey compelled to conduct them into thehouse, whence they stole 11 guineas, and thejewels, plate and other valuables, to a largeamount. Having committed this robbery,they returned Mr. Sheldon a couple ofgumeas, and apologised for their conduct !This being done, they hastened to theBlack Horse, Broadway, Westminster,where they concerted the robbery of Mr.Lawrence, of Edgeware, near Stanmore, inMiddlesex. Their robberies had hithertobeen carried'on entirely on foot, with onlythe occasional assistance of a hackneycoach ; but now they aspired to appear onhorseback, for which purpose they hiredhorses on the 4th of February follow¬ing, at the Old Leaping Bar, in High Mei¬bom, whence they set out a! out two o’clockin the afternoon, and arrived at the Queen’sHead, near Stanmore, at four, where theystayed to regale themselves; by which meansMr. Wood, the landlord of the house, hadso good an opportunity of observing thehorses as to remember them when he sawthem afterwards in KingStrect, Bloomsbury,where they were taken. Leaving the Queen’sHead, they arrived at a public-house in thevillage of Stanmore, about five o’clock in theevening. From hence they went to Mr.Lawrence’s house which they reached aboutseven o’clock, just after he bad discharged11some workman. Having quitted tLe.irhor.SLSat the. outer gate, one of the robbers goingforward found a boy who had just returnedfrom folding his sheep ; the rest of the gangfollowing, a pistol was presented, and instantdestruction threatened if he made, any noise.They then took off his garters, and tied hishands; bidding him to direct them to thedoor, and when they knocked, to answer,and bid the servants open it, in which casethey would not hurt him: but wheq the boyeani'e to the door, he was so terrified that hecould not speak j on which one of the gangknocked, and a man-servant, imagining ,twas one of the neighbours, opened the door,vrhereupon they all rushed in, with theirpistols in their hands ; when one of them ex¬claimed to the servant, *‘D— your blood!how long have you lived here?” Having seiz¬ed Mr Lawrence and the servant, they threwcloths over their faces ; and taking the boyinfo another room, they demanded what tire-arms were in the house ; to which he replied,only an old gun, which they broke in pieces.They then bound Mr. Lawrence and bis man,and made them sit by the boy ; when Turpincommenced searching the master by cuttingdown his breeches, from the pockets of whichthey obtained a guinea, a Portugal piece of36s. value, and about 16s. in silver ; not be¬ing satisfied with this booty, they forced himto conduct them up stairs, where they brokeopen a closet, whence they stole some moneyand plate'; but this not being yet sufficientto satisfy them, they threatened to murderMr. Lawrence, each of tlmm destining him12to a different death, as the savageness of hisown nature prompted him. At length oneof them took a kettle of water from The fire,and threw it over him ; but it providentiallyhappened not to be hot enough to scald him.In the interim, the maid-servant, who waschurning butter in the dairy, hearing a noisein the house, apprehended some mischief;on which she blew out her candle to screenherself, but being found in the course of theirsearch, one of the miscreants forced her upstairs, where he insisted upon gratifying hisbrutal passion ; at the same time endeavour¬ing to prevail upon her, by alternate threatsand promises, to divulge the secret hoard ofmoney, though she persisted in her ignoranceof any such hoard being in the house. Mr.Lawrence being ordered down stairs, one ofthem took a chopping-bill, and threatened tocut of his leg: they then brutally fracturedhis head with their pistols, and dragged himabout by the hair of his head, swearing they“ would do for him,” if he did not immed¬iately inform them where the rest of hismoney was hid. They then ransacked everypart'of the house, and found 20/. in a boxbelonging to Mr. Lawrence, jun.; and rob¬bing the house of all the valuable effects theycould find, they locked the family in theparlour, threw the keys of the house into awater-closet, and took their plunder toLondon.The particulars of this atrocious robberybeing represented to the king, a proclamationwas issued for the apprehension of the offend-13tr is promised a pardon and a reward of 50J.to any one of them who would impeach hisaccomplices. This, however, had no effecton the villains, who continued their depre¬dations, and, flushed with their success,seemed to bid defiance to the laws.On the 7th of February, six of them as¬sembled at the White Bear inn, in DruryLane, where they agreed to rob the house ofMr. Francis, a farmer, near Mary-la-bonne.Arriving at the place at dusk, they found aservant in the cowhouse, whom they boundfast, and threatened to murder, ifhewasnotperfectly silent: this being done, they ledhim into the stable, where they found anotherservant, whom they bound in the same man¬ner. Mr. Francis happening to come homein the interim, they presented their pistols tohis breast, and threatened instant destructionto him, if he made the least noise or opposi¬tion. Having bound the master in the stablewith his servants, they rushed into the bouse,and found Mrs. Francis, her daughter, andthe maid-servant, beating them in a mostcruel manner. One of the thieves stood assentry, while the rest rifled the house, inwhich they found a silver tankard, a medalof Charles the First, a gold watch, severalgold rings, a considerable sum of money,and a variety of valuable linen and other ef¬fects, which they conveyed to London.Hereupon a reward of 100/. was offered forthe apprehension of the offenders; in con¬sequence of which two of them were taker,into custody, tried, convicted on the evidenceof an accomplice, and hanged.(14The whole ganQ, being now dispersed,Turpin went into the country to renew hisdepredations on the highway. On a journeytoward Cambridge, hp met a man genteellydressed, and well mounted; and expecting agood bootv, be presented a pistol to the sup¬posed gentleman, and demanded his money.The party tlitis stopped happened to be King,a similar character, who knew Turpin ; andwhen the latter threatened destruction if hedid not deliver his money, King burst into afit of laughter, and sail, “What! dog eatdog? Come, come, brother Turpin ; if youdon't know me, I know you, and shall bej^Md' of your‘company.” These brethren ininiquity soon struck the bargain/ and im¬mediately entering on business, committeda number of robberies; till at length theyWere so well known, no public-house wouldreceive them as1 guests. Thus situated, theyfixed on a spot between the King’s Oak andthe Lough ton Road, on Eppihg Forest, wherethey found a cave large enough to provideshelter for themselves and horses. This cavewas inclosed within a thicket of bushes andbrambles, through which, unobserved, theycould look and see passengers on the road.From this station they used to issue, and robsuch a number of persons, that at length thevery pedlars who travelled the road carriedfire-arms for their defence; and, while theywere in this retreat, Turpin’s wife used tosupply them with necessaries, and frequentlyremained in the cave during the night.Having taken a ride as far as Bungay, inSuffolk, they observed two young women re-15ceive 14(’. for corn, on which Turpin resolvedto rob them of the money. King objected,saying it was a pity to fob snch pretty girlsbut Turpin was obstinate, and obtained thebooty.Upon their return home on flit followingday, they stopped a gentleman named Bra-dele, of London, who was riding in his char¬iot with bis children; and who, seeing onlyone robber, was preparing to malce resUtance;when King called Tto Turpin to hold thehorses. They took from him his watcl;,money, and an old mourning ring; but re¬turned the latter, as be declared that, thdnghits intrinsic value was trifling, he was veryunwilling to part with it. Finding that theyreadily parted with the ringrbe asked themwhat he must give for.the watch : ob whichKing said to Turpin, “What say ye, Jack ?Here seems to be a good honest fellow; shallwe let him have the watch ?” Turpin replied,“ Do as you please;” You must pay sixguineas for it: we never sell for more, thoughthe watch should be worth six and thirlv.”The gentleman promised that the moneyshould be left at the Dial, in Birchin Lane.At length, on the 4th of May, 1737, Tur¬pin was guilty of murder. A reward of 100/.having been offered for apprehending him,Thomas Morris, a servant of Mr. 'Thompson,one of the keepers of Epping Forest, accom¬panied by a higgler, set out in order to ap¬prehend him. Turpin seeing them approachnear his dwelling, Mr. Thompson’s manhaving a gun, he mistook them for poachers;on which he said, there werf; no hares nearlathat thicket. “ No,” said Morris ; “ but Ihave found a Turpin and presenting hisgun, required him to surrender. The otherthereupon spoke to him, as in a friendlymanner, and gradually retreated at the sametime, till, having seized his own gun, he shothim dead upon the spot, and the higgler ranoff with the utmost precipitation.This murder being represented to the sec¬retary of State, the following proclamationwas issued by government.—“ It havingbeen represented to the King, that RichardTurpin did on Wednesday, the 4th of Maylast, murder Thomas Morris, servant to Mr.Henry Thompson, one of the keepers ofEpping Forest, and the same Richard Tur¬pin continually committing notorious feloniesand robberies near London, his Majesty ispleased to promise his most gracious pardonto any of his accomplices, and a reward ol200Z. to any person or persons that shall dis¬cover him, so that he may be apprehendedand convicted. Turpin was born at Thaxted,in Essex ; he is about thirty, by trade abutcher, about live feet nine inches high,very much marked with the small-pox, hischeek-bones broad, his face thinner towardsthe bottom, his visage short: he stands nearlyupright, and is broad about the shoulders.”Turpin, to avoid the proclamation, wentfarther into the country in search of his oldcompanion, King; sending a letter to his wife,to meet him at a public-house at Hertford.She attended to this direction ; and her hus¬band coming into the house soon after shearrived, a butcher, to whom he owed 51.,17happened to see him, and assailed him with,“Come, Dick, I know you have money now;and if you will pay me, it will be of greatservice.” Turpin told him his wife was inthe next room ; that she had money, and heshould be paid immediately: but while thebutcher uas hinting to some of his acquaint¬ance, that the person present was Turpin,and that they might take him into custodyafter he had received his debt, the highway¬man made his escape through a window, androde off with great expedition.Turpin having found King, and a mannamed Potter, who had lately connectedhimself with them, they set off towards Lon¬don, in the dusk of the evening ; and whenthey came near the Green Man, on EppingForest, they' overtook a gentleman of thename of Major, riding on a very fine horse,which Turpin compelled the rider to dis¬mount, his own beast being jaded, and ex¬change.The robbers now pursued their journeytowards London, and Mr, Major, going tothe Green Man, gave an account of the af¬fair ; on which it was conjectured that Tur¬pin had been the robber, and that the horsewhich he exchanged must have been stolen.Mr. Major being advised to print handbillsimmediately, notice was soon given to thelandlord of the Green Man, that such a horseas Mr. Major had lost had been left at theRed Lion, in Whitechapel. The landlordgoing thither determined to wait till someperson came for it ; and, at about eleven atnight. King’s brother came to pay for the18horse, and take him away ; on which he wasimmediately seized, and conducted into thehouse. Being asked what right he had tothe horse, he said he had bought it; but thelandlord examining a whip which he had inhis hand, found a button at the end of thehandle half broken off, and the name ofMajor on the remaining half; whereupon hewas given into the custody of a constable.As it was supposed, however, that he wasnot the actual robber, he was told he shouldhave his liberty, if he would discover hisemployer; on which he said, a stout man, ina white duffil coat, was waiting for the horsein Bed Lion Street; and the company goingthither saw King, who drew a pistol and at¬tempted to lire it, bufr it Hashed in the pa'n :he then endeavoured to draw7 out anotherpistol; but he could not, as it got entangledin his pocket. Turpin was watching at asmall distance, and riding towards the spot.King cried out, “ Shoot him, or we aretaken.;” when Turpin fired, and shot hiscompanion, who called out, “Dick, youhave killed me !” on which the other rode offat full speed. King lived a week after thisaffair, and gave information that Turpinmight be found at a bouse near HackneyMarsh; and, on inquiry, it was discoveredthat Turpin bad been there on the night thathe rode off, lamenting be had killed King,who was his most faithful associate.For a considerable time Turpin skulkedabout the forest, having been deprived of hisretreat in the cave since he shot the servantof Mr. Thomson. Examining this cave, itwas found to contain two shirts, two pair otstockings, a piece of ham, and a part of abottle of wine.Mons; C , a Frenchman, was surprisedon the road to Newmarket by Turpin, who,having repeated in vain the word of command,u Stand !” bred a pistol at him ; but the ballhappily missed him : fearing a second sum¬mons of the same kind, Mons. C. resolved toobey; when Turpin took his money, hiswatch and his snuff-box, leaving him only25. to continue his journey. Before he lefthim, he required his word of honour that hewould not cause him to be pursued, nor in¬form against him before a justice, which be¬ing given, they parted very courteously.Some vain attempts were made to take thisnotorious offender into custody ; and amongthe rest the huntsman of a gentleman in theneighbourhood went in search of him withbloodhounds. Turpin perceiving them, andrecollecting that the Second Charles evadedhis pursuers under covert of the friendly oak,mounted one of these trees, under which thebdunds passed, to his inexpressible terror,so that he determined to retreat into York¬shire. H hrGoing first to Long Sutton in Lincolnshire,he stole some horses, for which he was takeninto custody ; but he escaped from the con¬stable as he was conducting him before amagistrate, and hastened to Welton, ia York¬shire, where he assumed the name of JohnPalmer, with the character of a gentleman.ITei ce he frequently went into Lincolnshire,where he stole horses, which he brought into20Yorkshire, and either sold or exchangedthem.He often accompanied the neighbouringgentlemen on their parties of hunting andshooting ; and one evening, on a return froman expedition of the latter kind, he wantonlyshot a cock belonging to his landlord. Onthis, Mr. Hall, a neighbour, said, “ Youhave done wrong in shooting your landlord’scockto which Turpin replied, that if hewould stay while he loaded his gun, he wouldshoot him. Irritated by this insult Mr. Hallinformed the landlord of what had passed ;and application being made to some Magis¬trates, a warrant was granted for theapprehension of the offender, who was takeninto custody, and carried before a bench ofjustices, then assembled at the QuarterSessions, at Beverley, when security wasdemanded for his good behaviour •, butbeing unable or unwilling to give the same,he was committed to Bridewell.Oninquiry, it appeared thathe made fre¬quent journeys into Lincolnshire, and on hisreturn always abounded in money, and waslikewise in possession of several horses ; sothat it was conjectured he was a horse-stealerand highwayman. On this the Magistrateswent to him on the following day, and de¬manded who he was, where he lived, andwhat was his employment? He replied insubstance, “ that about tw-o years ago h*had lived at Long Sutton, in Lincolnshire,and was by trade a butcher, but that havingcontracted several debts, for sheep that prov¬ed rotten, he was obliged to abscond, and21came to live in Yorkshire.” The magistratesnot being satisfied with the tale, commission¬ed the clerk of the peace to write intoLincolnshire to make the necessary inquiriesrespeciing the supposed John Palmer. Theletter was carried by a special messenger,who brought an answer from a magistrate inthe neighbourhood of Long Sutton, importingthat John Palmer was well known, thoughhe had never carried on trade there ; that hehad been accused of sheep-stealing, for whichhe had been in custody, but had made hisescape from the peace officers ; and that therewere several informations lodged against himfor horse-stealing. The magistrates there¬upon thought it prudent to remove him toYork Castle, where he had not been morethan a month, when two persons from Lin¬colnshire came and claimed a mare and foal,and a horse, which he had stolen in thatcounty.After he had been about four months inprison, he wrote the following letter to hisbrother in Essex.“ York, Feb. 6, 1739.“ Dear Brother—I am sorry to acquaintyou, that I am now under confinement inYorkCastle, for horse-stealing. If I could pro¬cure an evidence from London to give mea character, that would go a great way to¬wards my being accquitted. I had not beenlong in this county before my being appre¬hended, so that it would pass off the readier.For Heaven’s sake, dear brother, do not22neglect me. You will know what I mean,when I say,“I am yours affectionately,“ John Palmer.”This letter being returned, unopened, tothe post-office in Essex, because the brotherwould not pay the postage, it was accidentallyseen by Mr. Smith, a school-master, who,having taught Turpin to write, immediatelyknew the hand, on which he carried the let¬ter to a magistrate, who broke it open ; andit was thereby discovered that the supposedJohn Palmer was the real Richard Turpin.The magistrates of Essex consequently des¬patched Mr. Smith fo York, who immediate¬ly selected him from all the other prisonersin the Castle. This Mr. Smith and anothergentleman afterwards proved his identity onhis trial.Among the claimants of stolen horses wasCapt. Dawson of Farraby : his horse wasthat on which Turpin rode on his going toBeverley.On the rumour that the noted Turpin wasa prisoner in York Castle, persons flockedfrom all parts of the country to take a viewof him, and debates ran very high whetherhe was the real person or not. Among thenumber that visited him, was ayoungtellowwho pretended to know the famous Turpin ;he regarded him a considerable time withlooks of great attention, when he told thekeeper he would bet him half-a-guinea thathe was not Turpin; on which the prisonerwhispering the keeper, said, 14 Lay him thewager, and PH go your halves.’’23Being brought to trial, this notorious male¬factor was convicted on two indictments, uponwhich he received sentence of death. Afterconviction he wrote to his father, imploringhim to intercede with a gentleman and ladyof rank to make interest that his sentencemight be remitted, and that he might betransported. The iather did what was inhis power; but the notoriety of his characterwhs such, that no persons would exert them¬selves in his favour.This man lived in the gayest and -tnostthoughtless manner after conviction, recklessof all considerations of futurity, and affectingto make a jest of the dreadful fate thatawaited him. Not many days before hisexecution, he purchased a new fustian frockand a pair of pumps, in order to wearthem at the time of his death ; and, on theday before, he hired five poor men, at ICte.each, to follow the cart as mourners^ helikewise gave hatbands and gloves to severalother persons; and left a ring, and someother articles, to a married woman in Lincoln¬shire, with whom he had been acquainted.On the morning of the 10th of April, 1739,this hero of highwaymen—for he was heldto be the hero of any gang with which heconnected himself—was put into a cart, and,followed by the mourners he had engaged,drawn to the place of execution ; in hisway to which he bowed to the spectatorswith an air of the most astonishing indiffer¬ence and intrepidity. When he came to thefatal tree, on ascending the ladder, his right '»leg trembled, and he stamped it down with24an air of assumed courage, as if ashamed ofdiscovering any signs of fear. Having con¬versed with the executioner about half anhour, he threw himself off the ladder, andexpired in a few minutes. The spectators ofthe execution were affected at his fate, as hewas distinguished by the comeliness of hisappearance. He had attained the thirty-third year of bis age. At the execution hehad a fellow sufferer in the person of JohnStead, who was also found guilty on a simi¬lar indictment—namely horse-stealing.Turpin’s corpse was taken to the BlueBoar in Castle Gate,York, where it remainedtill the next morning when it was interredin the churchyard of St. George’s parish,with an inscription on the coffin, initials ofhis name, and his age. The grave was dugremarkably deep; but notwithstanding thepeople who acted as mourners took suchmeasures as they thought wouid secure thebody, it was carried off about three o’clockon the following morning: the populace,however, got intimation where it was con¬veyed, and found it in a garden belongingto one of the surgeon’s of the city. Gainingpossession of it, they laid it on a board,and carried it through the streets in akind of triumphal manner; after which theyfilled the coffin with unslackened lime, andburied it in the grave where it had beenbefore deposited.THE END.