Five ExcellentThe Flower o’ Dumblane.The Yellow Hair’d Laddie.The Meeting of the Waters,life is like a Summer Flower.Bruce’s Address,KEWTON-STEWART.Printed and sold holesalo and Retail,By J Al'Nairn.BRUCE’S ADDRESS,Scots, wha ha’e wi’ Wallace bled,Scots, w luuii liiuce has often led;Welcome to your gory lieu,Or to victory.Now’s the day, and now’s the hour.See the Irom of Oanle loui-,Sec aji}! oaeh jsioud lui w ard’s powerCliains and slavery.Wha will he n tr.'.ilcr huave?W ha w ad fiil a cow uni’s grave 3Wha sue hate as he a slave]Coward iuj n and iite!W ha loi vveoilai.(/s king and law,freed on’s swcui w id stiongly drawjfreeman st. n\ or hot man tu’,t.aiC-ofirudjs, on voi’ me.By o j j remit n’s v\ oes ami pains,By w.; t » i t u si i \rle chains,,'VVe \i in t.i'kui od% dearest veins,iiui Riey t-naif oo free!Uay i* < ineoo usui.peis low!*i ) i, an in. e - .) f.>e,1, everydilow Iv , ii ! no or die.!3LIFE IS LIKE A SUMMER FLOWER.Oh’ life is.like a summer flower,Blocminfr lint fo wither ;O, love is like ait April hour.Tears anfl smiles together :And hope is but a vapour light,The lover’s worst deceiver ;' Before him now it dances bl ight,,j, And now it’s gone for ever.\ O, joy is hut a passing ray,| Lover’s hearts beguiling;i A gleam that cheers a winter’s day,.I Just a moment smiling.I But tho’, iri hopeless dark despair,The thread of life may sever:\ Yet while it beats, dear maid, L swear,My heart is thine for ever!Ij? ytik >' Li 7* ? >•. • • i or 4?! f) *. /THE FLO VVER o’ DUMBLANE.The sun has gane down o’er the loftyBeidombud,And left the red clou Is to preside o’er,the scenev4While larrefy I stray in the calm summer!gloamin’To n aise cm sweet Jessie the flowerDumblane.How sweet is the brier, wi’its salt fatikl-iug blossom ! |Anti sweet is the birk, wi’ its mantle o'green jYet sweeter and fairer, and dear to Ihbjbosom*Is lovely young Jessie, the flou’r oJDumblane.She’s modest as onie, and blythe as she’) ihonhy ;For guileless simplicity marks her it’:ain ;And far be tbe villan, divested of feeling j:Vi Im’d blight in its bloom, the sweellovv’r o’ Dumblane.Sing on, tliou sweet mavis, thy hymn tithe e’ening,U hour’t dear to the echoes o’ Calderwcod glen j\Sac dcav to this boosoin, sne artless andIs charming young Jessie tire fhv.v’r' o"i Dumblane.How lost were niy days till 1 rnef v i' rnyJessie,The sports o’ the city seem’d fofish andvain;I ne’er saw the nymph I would ca’ mydear lassie,Till charm’d wi’ s’.vcet Jessie, the flow’rol Dumblanc.j| Though mine were the station o’ loftiestgrandeur,Amidst its profusion I’d languish inpain,And reckon as nathing the bight o’ itssplendour,If wanting young Jessie, the flow’r o’Dumblane.THE YELLOW HAIR’D LADDIE,In / pul when primroses paint the sweetplain,.Aivd snmrwr approaching rcjoiceth th<swain,1 he yellow'-hair’d laddie would ofteniime:gi>To wilds and derp glens,, where the liaw'thorn trees grow*IThere under the shade of an old sacredthorn,W iih freedom lie sang his love cvhn'ng. atn,morn ;■He sang with so soft and enchanting t,sound,That sylvans and fairies, unseen, danc’daround-The shepherd thus sang:“ Though youngMaya he fair,Her beauty is dash’d with a scornfu proud,air :But* Susie was handsome, and sweetlycould sing.Her breath like the breezes perfum’d inthe spring.That Maya, in all the gay bloom of heryouth,V.ike the moon was inconstant, and neversnoketruth ;hit Susie was tail!) fuil, gftod-lnmsourd, andfree,|Viid fair as the goddess who sprang fromthe sea”.3‘hat mamma’s fine daughter, with all thegreat dmv’r,(VVas awkwardly airy, and frequentlysour ;iThen, sighing, he wish’d would herparents agree,The witty sweet Susie his mistress mightbe. ^niE MEETING OF THE WATERS|There is not in this wide world a valleyso sweet, 7jM that vale in whose bosom the brightwaters meet,Jh ! the last rays ot feeling .and life mustdepart,i’er the bloem of that valley shall fadefrom my heart.ayet U uras -nol that nutui c ha4 shed o’erthe scene.Her purest »u crystal and brightest ofgreen ;’Twjis not li e soft magic of streamlet orhill;Oh ! no—it was something more exquisitestill—1 L'was that friends, the beiov’d ofiny bosom,were near,Who made very dear scene of enchant¬ment more dear ;And who felt bow ihe best charms of Na-1turn improveWhen wo sec them reflected from looksthat we love.Sweet vale of Ovoca! how calm could IrestIn thy bosom of shade, wi th the friends Llove best,Where the storms which wo feel in thiscold world should cease,And our hearts, like thy waters, be mingledin peace.