* THELIFE OF THE MARTYR,JOHN BROWN,OF PRIESTHILL,IN THE PARISH OF MUIRKIRK, AYRSHIRE,Who was Murdered byGRAHAM OF CLAVERHOUSE,Near bis own house, in 1685.Also, an Account ofHIS COMPANIONS IN SUFFERING,During the last Persecution in Scotland, betweenthe Years 1680 and 1688.They wandered about in sheep.skins, and goat-skins, in densand caves of the earth, afflicted and tormented,—Heb. xi. 37.Their constancy in torture and in death.These on Tradition’s tongue still live, these shallOn History’s honest page be pictured brightTo latest times.Grahame’s Sabbath.STIRLING:POINTED BY WILLIAM MACNIE,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.1828.AN ACCOUNT OFJOHN BROWN.About a hundred and forty yeaus ago, lived inthe district of Kyle, in Ayrshire, John Brown,of Priesthill, in the parish of Muirkirk, on the bor¬ders of LanarkshireHis house, which stands to this;.day, is on thebrow of a bill, behind which rises an extensivetract of heath, moss, hags and rocks, some of whicheemmand a view of several counties. The house isof stone and lime, and is covered with heather. Ithad no grale ; the fire was burned gn the floor j andhaving no openings in the wall, the smoke rose tar¬dily to the chimney top. Yet dark and smoky asit was, many had found it a little sanctuary ; notanly lor refuge, but for God’s presence.Though simple in their hsvbits and furniture, theinhabitants of those wild districts were well inform¬ed. John Brown was only a bey when upwards ofthree hundred ministers were deposed, in one dav,by Charles the il.; because they would not submitto be lorded ever by bishops. He of^n described*he distress that prevailed in the country on thatoccasion ; and the anguish and weeping throughoutthe churches on the sabbath then ministers preach¬ed their farewell sermons. It was heart-rending tojsart with such men, so remarkable for grace, asthe fruits of their ministry were every where con¬spicuous. You scarce could lodge in a house whoreGod was not worshipped. Iniquity, ashamed, hidits hand. But what a dreadful reverse was felt,when Prelacy was introduced by arbitrary means.3Jt was like King Saul’s change, a ba;l spirit aftera good.It is something remarkable,, that every time thatPrelacy was established in Scotland, it was accom¬panied with persecution of the Cburch, taking awaythe rights of the pfcople, and degeneracy in themoral character of the nation. The. disciplineof the Presbyterians was too strict for the king andhis counsellors.. The bishops were ambitious, andtheir curates were the dregs of society, ignorantand wicked. Many of the bishops had sworn, alongwith the king and his nobles, to support the charclithey had overturned. “ It was no wonder thoughthey were regarded as coming in with perjury writ¬ten on their foreheads j where holiness to the Lordhad formerly been.” The consequence was, thatthe churches were deserted, and the ministers taughtthem from house to house. This the bishops couldnot bear, and re-enacted laws against them. Thelaws against non conformity, says a writer of thatage, were so extraordinary, and savoured so muchof a spirit of persecution, were in themselves sounjust, and in some things so onnatural, that nonecan wonder though they sometimes drove the poor-people to desperation. “ They suffered extremitiesthat cannot be described, from hunger, nakedness,and the severity of the weather, lyirtg iu dampcaves, without covering, fire or fopd. None dorstharbour or relieve them upon the pain of death.”i The heathen may rage, and princes may combine,to plot against the Lord and his annointed, saying.Let us asunder break their bands, and cast theircords from us. He that sittetb in toe heavens shalllaugh : The Lord shall have theal in derision.The wrath of men shall praise him.The whirlwind of persecution carried the seedsof salvation where’ the influence of the Reformationhad not reached. The Scottish border, proverl^ylfor freebooters or robbers, felt the divine effects of4the banished ministers. They were there haibouredwithout fear or dread of laws, nd kindly enter¬tained. The inhabitants of the heath-covered moors,and the distant isles of the sea were made glad, andblossomed as the rose. Thus,, the scattering of theministers made new inroads upon Satan’s kingdom.The gospel flourished, though driven from templesmade with hands. Many date their conversion fromthe glad tidings they heard in these wilds, sayingwith the Psalmist, Lo ! we heard of thee at EpL-ratah, we found thee in the field of the wood.It was from these banished ministers that JohnBrown received his superior education. He wV.sintended for the church, had not an uncommon dif¬ficulty of expressing his sentiments to strangersprevented him from prosecuting his studies. Butwhat was strange, in prayer be was gifted in anextraordinary measure. In sucb scriptural languagedid he pour forth his soul, and at the same timewith such variety, fluency and afl'ection, that heappeared like one superhuman. Many have a giftor prayer whose lives bespeak them far from thekingdom of heaveo. Such was not Priesthili. Hisactions with ni<*n were just and judicious ; so muchso, that he was intrusted, when a very young man,with the produce of the neighbouring shepherds, tocarry to market, and dispose of, and bring backwhat they requited in return. In this capacity, hegot the name of the Christian Carrier j andoften the first that brought them tidings of the mis.chief that waS framed by law against the Preshyterians.He was merely a youth at the rising of Pendandand not having been either at the battle of Drutn jclog or Bothweli, he could evade with ease thesnaring questions that every traveller was require!to answer : i*y which means he passed to and f<unmolested ; although he did not attend the curatof Muirkirk, who was a Mfiy, easy creatut^, an<31(1 not make so mar.v complaints oi”!|i j parMiion-ers as some did : cor was he like his brother curateof Blantyre, who, one Sabbath, just as he rose topronounce the blessing, exclaimed, Devil nor aneo’ you see beltane !'' At which his congregationwere panic-struck, thinking they were betrayed intothe hands of the Highland Host, then ravaging thecountry ; but were relieved of their fears by his nextbawling out, with an oath, to the door-keeper,“ Jamie, riu an' a sorrow to you, an* put thaesheep out o’ my kail yard.*’ This was nothing tothe scandalous lives of others, who were guilty ofsuch things as are not even to be named.— It wasimpossible the well-inarmed people of Scotlandcould hear such men, setting their unscriptural will-worship aside.John Brown’s good education was not lost. Tocounteract the had example of the wicked, who nowwalked on every side, since vile men were in hiehplace, every Monday night he met with some youngpersons, and instructed them from the Bible andthe Confession of Faith. In summer, they assem¬bled in a sheep-bupht ; and in winter, they formeda circle wide around a large fire of peats and candlecoal, that blazed in the middle of the spence floor,John Brown was not alone in this good work, Davidand Will iam Steel were help-mates.It was about the year 1680, that Priesthill gotacquainted with Isab; ll Weir, in the parish of Sorn.She was a very superiour woman, though her dispo¬sition was the very reverse of his. She was livelyapd humorous, and could cheer up his grave coun¬tenance, till he was as animated ns herself: at oth¬er times, she would sit and listen to the good sensepi his conversation with the simplicity of a child.She saw him often, for he had frequently businessto transact wbh her father, when he passed to amifrom Ayr fhey often talkrif of Z'on’s trouble;and, what was remai kahle, when he sought her in6marriage, lie t- >■ lie felt a forlioding in hismind, that he . one day be called to seal theChurch's test. . , ih his blood. If it should beso, she nobly , through affliction and deathI will be you i t. The Lord has promisedme grace, am 1 >1 give you glory.After this, - idulged ministers had gone sofar in the cou. < f itelection, that the more consci-entioin sufferers tud none they could hear, after thedeath of Cameron and Cargil. They resolved toform, themselves into societies to meet quarterly, ofmembers delegated from their weekly prayer-meet¬ings. The second of these quarterly meetings tookplace at Priesthill, Febraary; 1682, where theymade a contribution to semi a young man to Hol¬land, to be licensed as a preacher to them. The fruitsof this brought forwarded Mr Renwick, of gloriousmemory. And these meetings, for no other endthan to enjoy the liberty of serving God, free frontthe impositions of men, were counted seditious andthe members punished with death. What a dread¬ful sftate was Scotland in then, whem God’s peoplewertr counted her enemies.A.bout two months after this, Priesthill was mar¬ried by Mr. Peden, who happened to be in Kylebapt izing children. The marriage took place in aglen., near the house. When Isabell and her com¬pany arrived at the spot, they were surprised at theassembly gathered. Mr. Peden welcomed her, andsaid, these are to be witnesses of your vows. Theyare all friends, and have coine at the risk of theirlive!i to hear God s word, and to couratenance hisordinance of marriage. After all was over, Mr.Ped.en took Isabell aside and said, “ You have gota good husband, value him highly ; keep lin i fora winding-sheet beside you ; for iu a day when youleaat expect it, thy master will be taken from thybead. In him the image of our Lord apd Saviouris too Visible to pass unnoticed; by those who drive7-the cliarlot wbeds of persecution throcgli the breadthand length of bleeding Scotland. Sut fear not, thcushalt be cernforted.”, John Brown bad, by a former wife, a little girlabout five years of age, who, on the morning afterhis marriage, lifted the latch of the spence door,and finding Isabel! alone, said, while she coveredher face shily with her arm, ‘ They say you aremy mother “ What if l should be your mother ?”replied Isabell. “ Naethiag, but if I thought yewere ray mother, I would like to come in aside yeawee,” said Jennie, with artless simplicity. “ 1 linpfe1 will be your mother, my bairn, and that Godwill give me grace to be so, and tbat you will be acomfort to me and your father. ’ And she provedso. When but a child she v as a help and pleasureto them : She would watch her fstfier's return,and as soon as she saw his pack horse at a distance,coming along the bent, she would announce the; joyful tidings. Then the gudewife hasted, andmade ready the milk porridge, had them dished,covered with a clean cloth, and warm water towash bis weary feet, a blaring fire, a clean hearth,and she and Janet would go out md welcome himhome, and help him off with his horse's load.The domestic peace and con tort of PriestliiU areta ked of to this day •, and many anecdotes are toldand one among the rest, that illustrates, the pre¬cept of hospitality to strangers, for thereby somehave entertained angels unawares. The second year. after his marriage, one night in the beginning ofwinter, John Biown had gone to a neighboursbouse. The family at home were preparing thewool of their flocks for hodden grey cloth, to sellat Lowrie’s fair in Hamilton, i he shepherd card¬ed the black and white wool together, for the wo*r, men to spin : Janet and the herd boy were leasingfor the carder: The gudewife sat nursing her first. born son at one side oi the file ; when the dog, whichlay at full lengtli at the oilier, started up, and ranto the door, barking at the approach of a stranger.Isabel! thought it would be her husband returned,and was about to rise to meet him. Janet and tireherd were almost as soon at the door as the dog,and calling to him, “ Whisht, Collie, whisht, yemu’na speak to the unco man.” The herd caughtthe dog in his arms, and returned with him into thehouse, while Janet followed, leading a sti agger, firstlooking to her mother for encouragement, and thento her guest. She led him to her lather’s chair witha courtesy that seemed to give rise to strong emo¬tions in his heart.The stranger was young in years, of a little sra-tare, and fine fair countenance, but he was palewith fatigue and sickness. His shoes were worn out;a shepherd’s plaid hung round him, seemingly fordisguise, for by his dress and speech he seemed ofa supericur rank. The gudewife did not know whe¬ther she should welcome him as a sufferer, or con¬sider him as a spy ; so she lulled her boy to sleep,by singing a verse of an old song.While the gudewife sang, the stranger's facebrightened up, and he more cheerfully accepted thechild’s endearing attentions, who placed him in thewarmest corner, helped him eif with his dreepingplaid, imitating all the kind offices she had seenher mother perform to her father, to the no smallamusement of the rest of the family. On the stran¬ger it had a different effect. He burst into tears,and cried, “ May the blessing of him thjit is readyto perish rest upon you, my dear bairn. SorelyGod has heard my erv, and provided me a place torest my head for a night. 0 that f had in the wi1-derness a lodging-place of wayfaring men, that [might leave my people and go from them ; for theybe an assembly of treacherous men. ’Just as he had finished, John Brown entered. Hegazed at him, and with great deference bade him I■ .v-. Hiii ritoftlini-iifr,nh«iimft'i.v9welcome to his house. ‘ Do you knovtf me ?’ saidthe stranger. I think I do, said John Brown. Itwas in this house that the societies met that contri¬buted to send you to Holland, and now I fear theyhave not received you, at least some of them, asthey ought. ‘ Their reproach has not broken myheart,’ said Mr. Berwick, for it was he, thoughhe was not named before the family, * but the ex¬cessive travelling, night wanderings, unseasonablesleep, frequent preaching in all weathers, especiallyi i the night, has so debilitated me, that I am unfitoften for my work. The reproach of those whocalled me to the ministry, I look upon as a deviceof the enemy to stop the Lord’s work : but blessedbe his grace that Las kept me from mixing angeror scorn of them with my sorrow. Some have de-1 dared, that 1 will never be honoured of the Lordto do his poor remnant good. But one thing [know, and may say, that the Lord has done megood. Oh ’• let none fear a sitIFering lot. Enemiesthink themselves satisfied that we are put to wanderin mosses, and upon the mountains •, but evenamidst the storms of these last two nights, 1 canifotexpress what sweet ^imes I have bad, when I hadno covering hut the dark curtains of night. Yea,rn the silent wat«h, my mind was led out to admirethe deep and inexpressible ocean of joy, wherein thewhole family of heaven swim. Each star ltd meto wonder what he must be who is the Star of Ja-cob, of whom all stars borrow their shining. In¬deed, if i may term it, I am much obliged to ene¬mies, they have covered me mafiv a table in thewilderness, and have made roe many friends where1 never expected them.’When lie ceased speaking, every one of the fa-mily strove to do him some kindness. He remain¬ed another night with them, and was greatly bet¬tered Jn his Irtalth. In those days, hospitality wasw.lb many what it ought to be, purely exer-t10cised for God’s glory, and without display of gran>rdour. The motives were like silver tried ; it wasat the risk of all, even life. Hence, the joy ofsucli pure intercourse was sweet beyond descrip¬tion. As iron sharpeneth iron, so doth the face olman his friend. Renwick and Priesthill talked of* the sufferings of the church, her testimony, her co¬venanted cause, and her ultimate triumph. \es,tbey had more comfort in the faith that Christwould one day be head over all things, King otIcings, and lord .of lords, than the wicked have,when corn and wine do most abound.Mr. M4 Ward, w'ho was some time minister of theXron Church, Glasgow, wiote a long letter fromHolland to the sufferer?, concluding with these re¬markable words : ‘ Though all the powers on earthshould combine to settle the Supremacy on the headof a mortal, the immortal God shall, w'ith the om¬nipotent power of his arm, shake the usurper out ofhis seat, and settle the throne of his annointed uponthe ruins of his adversaries. Hath Christ boughthis crown and sceptre with his blood ? And hath hesuch a right and title to it ?' And hath he all pow¬er Ln heaven and in earth, for securing him the pos¬session of his purchase ? And shall any mortal of¬fer to mount bis throne, pull the crown from hishead, and clothe himself with the spoils of the Me¬diator’s honour ! and keep himself in possession ofwhat be has taken from the Son ol God ! O vainattempt ! What says the second Psalm ? O letthem read tbeji- doom in verses 4<th and Stb. Heshall dash them in pieces. His crown shall flour¬ish cn his own head, and bis enemies will he clothedwith shame, who dared to take it by our laws,They comforted themselves, in tlie^e hopes, andwith the assurance'that the Lord would one day re¬turn to Scotland, and that the plaoe oi his feetwould be glorious. _ .Soon alter Mr. Renwlck left Priesthill, his fo-11lowers and lie published their Apologetic Declara¬tion. Mr. Renwiek was at first averse to the mea¬sure, but at last agreed.It was under such circumstances that the Apolo¬getic Declaration was published. In it may be seena spirit, still in Scotland, that dared to be free fromtyranny ; a spirit that animated the first Reformers^that would, one day speak terrible things ia ugh-teoasness.Although this effort of freedom was like the childthreshing the mountain, and its consequence appar¬ently the same save, that the church on this ac¬count suffered much ; the court-party making it apretence for sending more soldiers on the country,particularly about Lanark, vainly thinking it wouldnever be, well with them, till the south and west ofScotland were made a hunting field j and the betterto execute this, any soldier in the ranks had libertyto shoot all they thought suspicious; am3 it was notlong, till there was scarce a moss or mou otain in thewest of Scotland but was flowered with martyrs.The Society that met at Priesthill was scon brokenup. John Wilson, and John Smith, of L*esmahago,were shot by Colonel Buchan and the Laird of Lee,in February 1685. John Brown of Blackwood, int e same parish, was shot in the beginning cf Marchfollowing, by Lieutenant Murray, after the promiseof quarter. The pure snow, then on the ground,was stained with his blood. His corpse was burfed,under cloud of night, near to the spot where he wastreacherously slain.Murray might murder such as godly Bro'tvn,But could not rob him of that glorious crown,He now enjoys. His credit, not his crir.re.Was non-compliance with a wicked time.These lines are inscribed on the stone that covershis grave.Alter this, John Brown could not continue bis12' business of Cariier, though he had no hand in theApologetic ^Declaration. His opinion and hisconduct was consistent, with it, was, that he oughtto live as in an enemy’s country, and ivithout sin.Yet he was often obliged to betake to the high landsof Kyle, and of Lanarkshire, and to hear the chil¬ling cold of March and Apiil winds, with the morebitter blast of persecution. Still, however, amidstthe storms of nature, and of the political heavens,lie had the rainbow of the covenant around his head,and enjoyed a freedom and pleasure that li:s ene¬mies could not rob him of.On one of those days, when dfivcii from his home,he fled for refuge to a deep ravine, or moss Lag,that had been formed by the current of a water¬spout, carrying shrubs, soil, moss, and ail beforeit, to the dale land beneath, leaving a inghtluichasm, amidst a vast field of heath. Its deep mos¬sy sides made it inaccessible to strangers : only' theneighbouring husbandmen knew where the brack¬ens hid toe rocks, whose shelvy sides conducted tothe bottom;. In the sides of this natural alley, weredens ami caves, sufficent to hide a large company.In one of these Priesthifi intended to spend the dayin prayer; and had begun to pour out his soul, inthe words of Lamentations iii 40, and downwards,when a sweet sound reached his ear, that seemed16 proceed from another part of the moss hag.—At first it was in a soft under voice, as afraid to beheard, but soon rose above all fear, joined withothers j an 1 the cxlii. Psalm was distinctly sung.‘it is the hallowed sound of praising Cod ; and.by some fellow-sufferers said John Brown, as he jarose, from his knees, to search tin m out. And to .!his !3o smaH" joy, found out David and WhiliaraSteel, his neighbours, and Joseph Wilson Irom Les-rnalfago, in the cleft of a rock that jutted half-way :into the ravine. David Steel had a narrow escape;the gay before this. When just about t* begin the;ISmorning worship, one cried out, ‘ There is the ene¬my coming.’ He arose with the Bible under hisarm, and, without knowing what lie was about,went into the byre, and laid himself down in an.empty cow-stall, putting the Bible on his breast.His wife, equally unconscious, turned over hima heap of betiding, just as tiie soldiers entered theplace. They stabbed tbe straw where he lay, butthe Bible received the point of the sword, and theyleft tiie house without finding their, victim. WilliamSteel’s house was near at hand, and was also search¬ed. IBs wife had locked him in her clothes-press.After they searched eveiy place without success,and had lett the hoii'-e, a soldier returned,, and saidto the gudewife, ‘ Ai-stress, next time you hide, hidebetter : part of your husband s coat is locked with¬out your press j’ and with these words, he left her,to join his company. After he was gone, to herainaxement, she found it as the soldier had said.It was to avoid such harassing scenes, that theyhad all fltd to the ravine ; and they found, to theirsweet experience, this dreary waste a Bethel : andin their barassings and hidings, as it was with Moseson the mount, nearest God when farthest from crea¬tine comforts. Ail day, they read Gods wordand prayed by turns : and during the daik and sil¬ent watches of the night, by turns they prayed a dpraised.Will iam Steel, who escaped' death fiom the per¬secutors, and lived many years aider tilt Revolu¬tion, said often, if ever there was a lime in his lifethat he would wish to enjoy over again, it was thatin winch ho sutfered persecution » especially thatday and night he spent in the moss li?g, Tuey allthought it would be tlieir last meeting on earth —He was the first that ascended IVort) the ravine, tolook if the enemy were in view ; and it being aclear morning, and no person in sight, they all fol¬lowed, and vt.-re standing to consult on the separ-nte paths the? would take home, to prevent themfrom being seen, when they were struck silent by^ voice, sweeter than any thing they had ever heard,passing over the ravine, singing these wordsOh 1 let the prisoners’ sighs ascendBefore thy sight on high ;Preserve those by thy mighty power,That are ordained to die.And again, while they stiJ! stood speechless, ano-'ther voice sung, in tones of exultation ;—Though ye have lain among the pots,Like doves ye shall appear,Whose, wings with silver, and with goldWhose feathers covered are.After standing for some Jime looking at one ano¬ther, some of them thought they had left other wor¬shippers in the moss hag. Others thought that thesound echosd from a greater distance. “ Whoeveror wherever the words come from, we have littleconcern,” said John Brown ; ‘‘ one thing we maytake comfort from ; they are God’s words to hischurch in affliction j and that is our situation —Who iye among the pots ? We scullions, black int!?e opinion of our enemies. But God s?es us notas man sees us, hut compares us to doves •, doveson the wing, whose feathers of gold and silver arebest seen while they tly. It may be, we are on thewing to an eternal world, and this Betiiei meetingis preparing ns to mount up with wings like eagles.If so, let us keep in mind, that wc have nothing teboast of, but grace, grace ; unto it is our acksow-ledgesnent. ’ While he spoke, his countenar.eebeamed the pleasantest ever they had seen 5 andwhen he parted from them, they stood and lookedafter him. it was the last, time they saw him inlife, and the last time they heard him speak. “ Hehad a most unepmmon talent in communicating in-15formation and consolation to others, and tvben hecame himself to be tried, he v..s cot ietl a cast¬away.”Among the , last of the needy adventures ofCharles lids reign, who could suim through theblood of their more conscientious country men, tofavour and emolument, was Graham of Claver-house “ He was descended from the hoo*e ofM ontrose, and was educated in France, the bestschool for dissolute manners and cruelty. Ke foughtagawist the French in the Low Countries, under thelJri uce of Orange, but being refused the commandof ore of the Scottish regiments, then in tiie Dutchservice, ho !efc it in disgu-t, and came over to Eng¬land. His dissolute manners and vivacity soon gothipi notice at court, and the com wand of a partyof Highlanders. ’ His first appearance on the stagecf Scotland s tragedy was ^^^678, taking freequarters for himself and men in the bouse of GilbertM'Michen, in New Glenlnce ; and when they wentoff, beside what they consumed, they took withthem three horses, worth ten pounds each. In everysucceeding appearance be may be marked as risingin cruelty and exaction.“ What Bishop B irnet says of Dalziel, m'.y beaffirmed of Ciaverhou^e with equal, or perhaps wifhgreater truth ; that he acted the Muscovite toogrossly, threatening to spit men, and roust themalive. He pleadi d in excuse that terror was truemercy, if it put an end to, or prevented war."Charles being now dead, James, Duke of Fork,required such instruments to compel submissioA tohis system of cruelty. Having now thrown off themask, the suspicion of the Reformers, that Prelacywas to he handmaid to the introduction of Poperyin Scotland, was verified. For that purpose heenlarged the commission of Claverhouse, and creat¬ed him Viscount of Dundee 5 and none was betterIfflilted to drive J'elL Ruin's plough shire through everything that couiil m.rke life desirable.The measure of fixing garrisons of soldierstiirough the South and West counties, as if Seot-! uul had been invaded by h foreign enemy, wastile beginning of many cold-blooded murders intoe field. One of these garrisons was fixed at Les-rnaliago.' Claverhouse came unexpectedly there,late on the last night of April, 1685, and havingbeard of John Brown s piety and non-conformity,by six o’clock next morning he was at Priestliili.—A proof how he thirsted after tire blood of suchmen.John Brown, as usual, had arisen with tSie dawn,and hati oil-red up the morning sacrifice. Hiswife often told Imjv remarkably the Fsalm sungthat morning, tended to gird up the loins of theirminds. It was Psalm xxvii. 1 — 4. The chapterread was John xvii, equally suitable ; and bis pray¬ers were line those of one lost to the world, and en¬tered into the holy of holies, through the rent vailof the Redeemer's death.How good it is, when the Lord conies, to befound watching iu the way of doing our dutv, wasexperienced in no small measure by the family atth'iesthill. Alter worship, the gtulerJan went tothe bill to prepare soi*e peat ground : the servantswere also out, but at some distance, when Ciaver-house surrounded the helpless man with three troopsof dragoons, and brought him down to his own. Louse. He left his implements of industry withgreat composure^ and w.dried down before themmore '.ike a leader than a captive.' Meanwhile Janet had alarmed her mother by tel¬ling her that a great many horsemen were comingdown the hill with her lather. 14 The thing that Ifeared is conn: up m me : O give me grace for thishour,’ said her mother, hastily taking up her boy,and wrapping him iu her plaid, and taking Janet1.7by the hand, she went out to meet her foes ; pray¬ing in secret as she went.The leisurely way of examining persons by law,in which there was some semblance of justice, wasrow departed from. Ciaverhouse simply ashedJohn Brown, Why he did not attend the curateand if he would pray for king James. It was re¬markable that, though a stammerer in speech tostrangers, this morning he answered Clawerhousedistinctly. He said he acknowledged only Christas supreme head of the Church, and could not at¬tend the curates, because they were placed therecontrary to his law, and were mere creatures of thebishops, and the bishops were creatures of the king ;and he being a Papist, and himselPa ProtestantPresbyterian, who, along with all ranks in the na¬tion, had sworn and covenanted to God, that noPapist should hear rule over these lands j so thathe neither could nor would pray for him. But ifhe repented, and turned from his wicked way, hewould acknowledge, obey; and pray for him.—Upon hearing which Claverhoiiie said, Go to yourprayers, for you shall immediately die ; which hedid in such a manner as filled the troops withamazement. On his family, it had a different effect.His wife, who was great with child, with anotherin her arms, and Janet at her side, stood while heprayed, “ that every covenanted blessing might bepoured upon her and her children, horn arid un¬born, as one refreshed bv the, influence of the HolySpirit, when he comes down like rain upon themown grass, as showers upon the earth/’There is a light in the chri.-tian’s life that discov¬ers the spots of the wicked, and torments them be¬fore the time. When Ciaverhouse could bear hisprayers no longer, and bad succeeded, after inti r-rupting him twice, with thr. most hlaspbemovs lan¬guage, to raise hint from his knees, John Brownsaid to his wife—Isabel), tins is the day I tola \!>uiof before wc were married ; and added, with lususual kindness, You see me summoned to appear,in a few minutes, before the court of heaven, ?s awitness in our Redeemer’s cause., against the Rulerof Scotland. Are you willing that I should partfrom you ? Heartily willing, said she, in a voicethat spoke her regard for her husband, anil her sub¬mission to the Lord, even when he called her tohow befor™ his te.rible things. “ That is a!! 1 waitfor : O death, where is thy sting ! O grave, wherewill be thy victory ! ’ said John Brown, while hetenderly laid his arms around her, kissed hejr andbis little boy, and lastly Janet, saying to her, Mysweet bairn, give yoar hand to God as your guide j•and he your mother’s comfort—He could add nomore ; a tide of tenderness overflowed his heart.—At last, he uttered these words, “ Blessed be thou,0 Holy Spirit! tha^ speaketh more comfort to myheart than the voice of my oppressors can speaicterror to my ears !” Thus, when the Lord broughtbis witness to be tried, he discovered such magna-n;mity, that, as he fell, he conquered his persecutors.If, in the Christian’s life, there is a light that dis¬covers the spots of the wicked ; so, in the martyr’sheroic grappling with death, there was a heat thatscorched past enduring. It was doubtless underthis feeling that Claverhouse ordered six of his dra¬goons to shoot him, ere the last words were out ofhis mouth : but his prayers and csnduct had dis¬armed them from performing such a savage action.They stood motionless. Fearing for their mutiny,Claverhouse snatched a pistol from his own- belt,and shot him through the head, ..And whilehis troops slunk from the awful scene, he, like abeast, ot prey that tramples and howls over a fallenvictim, insulted the tender-hearted wife, while sheg athered up the shattered bead, by taunting jeers :* What thinkest thoaa of thy husband now, woman.’1 I ever thought mickle good of him,’ said she,19^anJ now more than £ver ’ Ke^»see!ng her cour¬age, said, ‘ It were but justice to lay thee btsidebin).’ She replied, ‘ f ye were permitted, l Cv .:btnot your cruelty could go that length ; but howwill ye answer for this morning's work.’ Witha countenance that belied hi* word*, he ans’v.-ied,‘ To men I can be answerable, and as for C; <d, Iwill take iiim in my own hands.’ Thus saj| .ig, bahastily put spurs to his horse, and left her with thecorpse. She tied up his head with her napkin,competed his body, covered it with her plaid, andwhen she had nothing further to do or contendwith, she sat down on the ground, drew hei child¬ren to her, and wept over her mangled husband.But think not, reader, she was miserahde •, it isonly when we have brought on ourselves our afflic¬tions, that we are miserable under them. Nor thinkthat she was .alone. Are not angels ministeringspirits to believers in their troubles? Aid beingspirits they are well fitted for the service. Thevcan reach the spirit with healing on their wings.—They soothe, they comfort the afflicted widow.—There are also kindred spirits with angels, here onc’-rtli, in whom the Most High God puts his Spirit,to speak a word in season to the weary soul.The mourner of Priesthill did not long xvantfriends. The report of the foul deed circulatedrapidly, creating dismay and abhorence. Whonow could think themselves safe, when John Brownwas thus treated, who was not otherwise obnoxiousto government than in not attending the curate, andhe several miles distant ? The first who arrived onthe spot was David Steel’s wife, one well fitted tocomfort in the most trying dispensation. She ranup to the group, and throwing her arms aroundthem, saluted Isabel! thus, ‘ Wow woman ! andhas your master been taken from your head this. day ? and has he won the martyr’s erbwn ; and hasGod taken you and your children under his oxvn20ears, saying, I will be a husband ta the widow, anda father to the fatherless ? No wonder though yeare overcome and astonished at his doings ” Thissalutation aroused and strengthened the widow.She remembered the words of Mr. Peden, and shearose from the ground to search put the linen, hehad warned her to prepare. Aboyt this time DavidSteel and William Steel, with his wife, arrived andassisted ftabell to bring in and wrap up the preciousdust. All was done, while the silence of deathreigned over the'household.After breakfast, David Steel took the Bible, and,in the ordinary course oi the family, began theworship of God by singing part of the consolatorypsalm that remained .unsung in the morning:—andfollowed also the footsteps of his friend by readingthe xviith chapter of John. Isabell received withcomposure her visitors, many of whom came at therisk of their lives to condole with !:• r. *As was said of the protomartvr Stephen, devoutmen carried him to his burial in like manner wasJohn Brown, for literally God’s hidden ones carriedhim forth, and laid him in his grave, on I he, veryspot where he fell. And as the disciples, afterthey had seen the Lord ascend, returned unto Jeru¬salem rejoicing, in like manner did the company atPriestliiil rejoice, and had their ‘ song in the night.’Every writer of that age, among the sufferers,bears witness hew wonderfully they who so Iff redwere home up, as on eagle s wings, above theworld’s scorn and hatred. Ask all the letters writ¬ten by Rutherford and others, down to those writ¬ten by Sir R. Hamilton. A k the dying testimo¬nies, from Argvje and Guthrie to Renwick. Theywould fill volumes, and establish the truth, thatone like unto the Son of God walked with them inthe fiery fovnact- of sffl;ction.' Renwtck write1, onone occa-ion, to Sir R, Hamilton, after a field-preaching, that ‘ if ever God con’d be tied to any21■place, I tliink it is to the muirs anil mosntains ofScotland.’ Rutherford many a time declares,‘ Sweet, sweet is xhe cross ; and no wonder, when-Christ bears both us and it.’ 'The sorrow ef therighteous is. better far than the joys of the wicked,that are only like the crackling of thorns under apot, and worketh death. Had a miracle openedthe eyes of Claverhouse, as it did the eyes of theprophet's setvant, to have- seen John Brown’s soulfrom ‘ insult springing,’ at the moment his bodyfell a mangled corpse, he would have seen himselfchanged from a powerful oppressor, like Haitian,to a mean servant, only fit, as an instrument, to■clothe the humble sitter at the king's gate in royalrobes, and a glorious crown, and usher him in tothe city Shushan, as a man whom the King delightsto honour. It was not granted that his eyes shouldhe epened by a miracle, or by faith in God’s writ¬ten testimony, to see himself as he really was ; butGod’s vicegerent, conscience, even in this life,speaks oat awful things of righteousness and judg¬ment to cense. ‘ He afterwards acknowledged thatJohn Brown’s prayer made such an impression onhis spirit, that he could never get altogether wornoff, when he gave himself liberty to think.’ Thus,‘ mischief haunts the violent man, and the bloodyand deceitful man shall not live half his days.’His maxim, of terror being true mercy, if it pre¬vented or put an end to war, like every other at¬tempt to do evil that good may come out of it,proved fallacious, and acting up to it was the meanof bringing on the. Revolution of 16S8, and of‘ banishing James \ II. from the throne and heartsof the people of Scotland.’ Qaverhotise, for vari¬ous reasons, bad.no alternative. £har. to follow thefortune of bis benefacto". When he found a largemajority in the Scotch Convention on die side ofWilliam, he left Edinburgh with the determination®f exerting himself in the cause of Hairs, in the- *22field. Not long after this he appeared openly inarms at Inverness, and wa* successful at the battleof Killierankie •, putting William's army to flight jbut while in the act of l asing himself on the saddle,and waving with his arm painting to guard the passof Killicrankie, that his favourite maxim ‘ no quar¬ter’ might be put into execution, Lo ! a musketball passed into his arm-pit, that proved fatal in afew hours after. His estate was made over to thehouse of Douglas, and his widow marrying to LordKilsyth, and returning to Holland, became, alongwith her children, the victim of a dreadful misfor¬tune. The house in which she resided at Utrecht,falling suddelny in and overwhelming the wholefamily, his name and titles became extinct.’The poor widow of Priestbill and her childrendid inherit the earth, and had a name long afterthat of Iter oppressors was net—About forty yearsi*go, a gentleman riding to Edinburgh fell intoconversation with a respectable-looking countrywoman on the road, and learning that she was agrand-daughter of John Brown, he on that accountmade her ride behind him into the city. So muchwas the memory of the Christian Carrier respected.And what was a proof of the harmony of his family,she could not tel! whether she was of the first or thesecond wife’s children. None of them now resideat priesthill but their bouse stands, and the broadflat stone that covers their father’s grave, is shewn,with this inscription jIn death's eold bed, the dusty part here liesOf one who did the earth as dust despise ■,Here in this place from earth he took departure ;Now he has got the garland of the martyr.Butchered by Ciavers and his bloody' band,Raging most rav'nously o'er all the land,Only for owning Christ's supremacy,Wickedly wrong’d by encroaching tyranny.23Nothing how near so ever he to goodEsteem’d, nor dear for any truth his Wood.rt has not been exactly ascertaied how long thewidow lived after her husband, nor is tlie presentstate of their prosterity known to the winter j but itis certain, that eight months after her husband’sdeath, Isabel! mingled her tears with those of DavidSteel’s wife, and had her wounds opened afresh bythat worthy man’s untimely end.The enemy came on a sodden to Cummerheadwhere he lived, and while he was flying before themto a flow moss, where no trooper could follow,they called him back, assuring him that they didnot intesd his hurt. In confidence of which, be satdown on a little knoll, on which a kiln stood, tolook, at the soldiers passing, and while doing so,Lieutenant Crichton, who commanded the troop,and who came up in the rear; shot him throughthe heart, after that he had been tieacherously pro¬mised safety.His wife saw him all the while, and was the firstthat got to the bloody corpse, and while she gentlypressed down the eyelids on the fixed face, she saidwith great composure, ‘ The archers have shot atthee, hut they eould not reach thy sou!—it has es¬caped like a dove, tar away, and is at rest.’ Shethen, clapping her hands together and looltinir upwith an eye that pierced the heavens, said, Lordgive strength unto thine handmaid, that will proveshe has waited for thee even in the way of thy judg¬ments *David Steel lies buried in Lesmahago church¬yard. On his grave is a stone with this epitaph,—David a shepherd first, and thenAdvanced to be king of men,Had of graces in this quarter.This heir, a v/and’rer, uow a martyr !24*Who for iiis constaocy and zesl,Still to the back did prove good steel,Who for Christ’s royal truth and laws,And for the covenanted causeOf Scotland’s famous Reformation ;Decl ining tyrants’•usurpation.By cruel Crichton murder'd lies.Whose blood to heaven for vengeance cries.Joseph Wilson who was also under hiding in themoss hag with John Brown, was met by a party ofnorth Highlanders in a moss, near the water ofs Kyle, when he and other four men were returningfrom hearing Mr. Renwick preach ; and on theirconfession where they had been, were all shot with¬out further trial. Thus their blood was mixed withtheir sacrifice They were not granted even timeto commit their souls to God : but their souls’safety did not depend upon their prayers, but ontheir praying HEAD.William Steel alone, of those friends, survivedthe persecution period, and lived after the Revolu¬tion to tell his wonderful escapes.“ The memory of the most glorious.scenes of ac- .tion, and the most dismal scenes of suffering that' the church of Scotland has passed through, havenot, been left buried in their own ashes.” Her firstReformers have been nobly drawn forth from therubbish of lies and prejudice, that had long lainheaped upgn their memories. And may not theless conspicuous stones that compose the fair bpild-mg, be gathered out with this warrant.—The righ¬teous shall be held in everlasting remembrance.FINIS,