■i■1lliIIIP|,•,',H I 11•e^K'ViViJ&Eigfesfer '.'II!Ml«»mmMA SKETCHOF THBf| Life and Character of His Royal j|Highness the tale1 Bttfee ofWith an Account of the FUNERAL. &-GLASGOW •Printed for the Booksellers.1827SKETCHHi IS Royal Highness Prince Frederick,eond son of George III., and brother to his prsent Majesty, was born on the 16th of Augu-1763. When he was but seven montlis old Iwas elected Bishop of Osnaburgh, a nominal afice, to which the Elector of Hanover has tilpower of influencing the election alternately wi*another European Power. On the 95th Jul1771, His Royal Highness was installed n Knigl;of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, in conpany with his two brothers, the Princes of VValand Cumberland, in presence of the SovereigThe education of His Royal Highness under t!paternal eye of George III, was strictly attend*to; and the pictures which are left us of the d»niestic life pursued under His Majesty’s sauctioiare such as to convince us of his paramount rtgard for the blessings of a tranquil life. Durintheir childhood* the Prince of Wales and the suject of our memoir were remarkably attached teach other. They studied together, and played t<gether, and were noticed as being extiemei y devoteto each other’s society. They slept in the sanroom, in separate beds, on the ground floor, iBuckingham House, looking to the gardeniTheir summer residence was on Kew Green. Ttgrounds at the back of this House extended tollbanks of the Thames ; jU one part was an extensigrass plot, where they, used to amuse thennelvibv Waving at single-wicket, and cricket. 'I hew*ie both of them remarkably active, particulat3ly the Duke. It was here that His Highness,used frequently to order two of the attendants toraise a garter to the height of his mouth, from whichhe retreated, and then sprung over it. He could• repeat this exertion several times without failing.The early years of the life of His Royal High-! ness were spent in comparative tranquillity andi privacy. Nothing deserving of any particular no¬tice occurred till the period when he was createdDuke of York and Albany. This event tooki place on the 47th of November 1789. This veryi year was marked by a circumstance so remarkablein the history of the Royal Duke ns to require ai particular mention. We allude to the affair ofy honour with Colonel Lennox, afterwards Duke of. Richmond. This dispute originated in an obser-i ration of His Royal Highness, viz. that ‘ ColonelLennox had heard words spoken to him at thei Club, at Daubigney’s, to which no gentlemans ought to have submitted.' This observation being^reported to the Colonel, he asked His Royal High-einess, at the parade, what the words were he had^submitted to hear, and by whom spoken; thei Dukegave no answer, but ordered him to his post,f Colonel Lennox then wrote a circular to every■ member of the Club, requesting to know whetherffiny such word* had been used to him; and theirakilence was to be considered a declaration that noanuch words could be recollected. As no answersI'were returned, the Colonel requested His RoyaltHighness to contradict the report; but he having^declined to do so, the Colonel sent him a challenge.eThe parties met at Wimbledon Common. ThenOuke of York was accompanied by Lord Raw-r ;lon ; Colonel Lennox by the Earl of Winchelsea..iThe distance was twelve paces. On the signalbeing given, Colonel Lennox fired, and the balgrazed his Royal Highness’s enrh The Dukthaving refused to fire, the affair terminated.”This transaction excited a great deal of interestHis Majesty was so affected by it, notwithstandingits fortunate termination, that lie abstained ingreat measure from his usual amusements. ThDuke of York appeared the least concerned of thRoyal party, and the following singular occurrence will demonstrate the feelings by which different members of the Royal member were influenced on the occasion :—* In consequence of the recovery of George IIIfrom his lamentable indisposition, the Kingbirth-day, in 17f<9, was celebrated with unusuasplendour. The King, however, was not presenduring any part of the day, owing to the shock,occasioned by the duel so recently fought betweenthe Duke of York and Colonel Lennox. In tb<evening a most splendid ball was given, and notwithstanding what had so recently happened, andthe established etiquette, that no person shouhstand up at country dances who had not danceca minuet, Colonel Lennox appeared in the circbwith Lady Catherine Barnard. This the Princeof Wales did not perceive until he and his partner, the Princess Royal, came to the Colonel’s!place in the dance, when, struck with the impro¬priety, he took the hand of the Princess, just as,she was about to be turned by the Colonel, andijled her to the bottom of the dance. The Duke oilYork and the Princess Augusta came next, andijithey turned the Colonel without notice or exception- The Duke of Clarence, with the Princess;Elizabeth, came next, and His Royal Highnessfollowed the example of the Prince of Wales.5The dance proceeded, however, aJul ColonelLennox and his partner danced down, but whouhey came to the Prince and Princess, His Roya!IH iyhness led his sister to the chair bv the side ofi O » _: the Queen. Her Majesty then, addressing her*: ielf to the Prince, said, ‘ You seem heated, Sir,ind tired.’ ‘ I am heated and tired, Madam,'«aid the Prince, ‘ not with tlie dance, but withi dancing in such company.’ ‘ Then, Sir,’ saidthe Queen, ‘ it will be better for me to withdraw,and pm an end to the ball.’ ‘It certainly will beso,’ said the Prince, ‘ for I never will countenance■ insults given to my family, however they may be1 ireated try others.’ At the end of the dance, her; Majesty and the Princesses withdrew, and thus->the ball concluded. The Prince, with his usuali gallantry, alterwards explained to Lady Cathe-: t ine Barnard the reason of his conduct, assuringliiher ladyship that it gave him much pain to be ob¬liged to subject a lady to a moment’s embarass-mient. It is now well known that the severe mea-i sures taken by His Royal Highness to discourageithe practice of duelling, have almost succeeded inbanishing it from military society. Amid the po-iilitical agitations of the year 1791, the marriageiof His Royal Highness to a Princess of theHouse of Prussia, served to cement more closelyithe relations which the Courts of St James’sand Berlin had found it their interests to con-m tract, with the view of counterpoising the inordi-i i nate ambition and mighty projects of the restlessti! Empress of Russia. The treaty touching this al-niliance was signed at Berlin on the 26th of Janu-i ary, 1791, by Sir Morton Eden on the part of thei1 King of England, and three representatives on be-fii half of his Prussian Majesty.§The Kino;, ia his speech on the opening of Par J• lament, on the 31st January, 1792, comniunicat.lai to both Plouses the important change whicl jjl a I taken place in his family, and invited tin jCommons to consider of the means of enablinplirn to keep his engagements with his brother 01 jI rus-sia. The House, in consideration of his ma jt unonial connexion, voted him an annuity o |l .25,000, in addition to his then income o |L. 12.000 a-year.The marriage of His Royal Highness witliBthis amiable Princess took place at Berlin on dull29th of September 1791. On the arrival of thpRoyal party in England, they were re-married alSt James’s on the Slth Nov., and on the 23d o;December received at court. The Duchess watnearly four years younger than her husband, in jperson she was below the ordinary female stature, Iand of an extremely delicate figure; her com-1plexion was fair, her hair light, her eye-lashes long j• ml nearly white, and her eyes blue. By thfc|Duchess His Royal Highness hail no issue.From his earliest age His Royal Highness w:» \destined to the profession of arms, the study at jwhich formed an essential part of his education. S'in pursuance of this object, and for the acquire¬ment of the French and German languages, hewas sent by the late King to the Continent, inthe year 1780, and continued abroad until 1787;his established residence during that periodbeing Hanover, from whence he made excursionsto various parts of Germany, .visiting Vienna,Berlin, and other capitals, and also attending thereviews of the immortal Frederick, and acquiring!n minute knowledge of the theory and practice olPrussian tactics, at that period considered themodel lor the imitation of every military man.7The Duke of York entered the service on theI 1st of November I7i>0, as Colonel in the army,i was appointed shortly after to the command ofj the Horse Grenadier Guards, and, in October,173i, to that of the Coldstream Uegiment ofj Guards. He returned to the Continent in1791, for the purpose of serving as a volunteerin the Prussian army, in the event of a warwith R<t>siq, which, however, did not take place.It was not long after his return to England,3 ithat Ills Royal Highness was called into actual> and severe public services. Troops were em-i barked for Holland, and His Royal Highnessi was selected tor the command ot a small corpsof British troops, destined to co-operate in thejp del'ei ice of Holland, which had been invaded bya f rench army, tindtr General Pumourier.1 lie Puke having, upon this occasion, been> promoted to the rank of Lieutenant-General,; proceeded, wiib a biigade of guards, and somelartillery, which landed at Helvoct Sluys, on the111st of March, and the successes of the Austrianlarms having soon after removed the war from> Jthe frontiers of Holland, he joined the alliedi iiAustrian and Prussian army.The first military operations, in which Hisj!Royal Highness assisted, occurred in the neigh-ibourliood of Tournay, and near St Amand and• V icogne, in the month of May, in the course ofwhich he was promoted to the rank of General,uln the subsequent battle of Famars, on the 23dihMay, he commanded a principal column of thellallied army, and bore a distinguished shore inthe success of that brilliant day, the result of1 which was, the investment and siege of Valen-i pctennes. The direction of this operation was en-8trusted to His Royal Highness, while the Prince |>of Coburg covered it on the side of Bouchain ^and Cambrai, on the left bank of the Scheldt.. IValenciennes having capitulated on the 28th jlof July, the Duke of York joined the mainfl.army, and co-operated, on the 7th and 8th ofrlAugust, in the movements against the enemy’spositions of the Camp de Cesar, Bois de Bour¬bon, &c , upon the line of the Scheldt, from iall which they were dispossessed, or retired, al¬though without material loss.The Prince of Coburgh, after these operations,j i<laid siege to Quernoy, and subsequently investedijManbuege, while the Duke of York continuedihis march in the direction of Orchies, Tourcoing,.and Menin, w'ith the British, Hanoverian, andHessian troops, to which was added a body of fAustrians, under the orders of Lieutenant-Gene¬ral Alvintzy.The object of this separation was the siege ofDunkirk, which had been determined upon bythe British Cabinet, and which was viewed withregret, not only by the Austrian Chiefs, but alsoby His Royal Highness, who had remonstratedagainst it, as far as he could; at the same time, Iwhen he found his repi esentations unavailing, heproceeded with the utmost zeal to the execu¬tion of a measure, from which may reasonably bedated the subsequent reverse of fortune on theFrench frontier. The Dutch troops were tocover the march of His Royal Highness’s army bythe frontier of West Flanders, but having, on the18th ofAuirust, been driven with loss from severalposts, which they occupied during the passage ofthe British troops through Menin, His RoyalHighness ordered the Brigade of Guards to their0support, which occasioned the action of Lincelles,lin which that corps so ep'ently distinguislied itself!After this His Royal Highness proceeded, with-] out farther interruption, to Fumes, whence hei advanced with a part of his force, by Gyveldt, to¬wards Dunkirk, while F. M. Freytag, with the[ remainder, took the direction of tiergues andMount Cassel, in order to cover the opera-1 lions of the siege, and after a succession ofsevere and sanguinary actions, fought by the be-2 sieging and covering armies with success, thoughwithout any positive effect, the principal of whichi occurred on the 24th of August, (when the gal-ant General D’Alton fell,) and on the 6th and1th of September, the Duke of York found him-eif under the necessity of raising the siege, andi miring to Furnes, on the night of the.Sth of Sep-i ember, in consequence of the covering army be¬ing driven from Bambecke, Roesbrugge, liex-■ ooede, &c. on the 6th, and defeated on the 8th,>y General Houchard, near Houdschoote, byirvhich His Royal Highness’s left flank and rearivere exposed, and his communications rendered^insecure. His Royal Highness had contendedvith perseverance against numerous and increas¬ing difficulties, arising from the rapid accumula-i lion of the enemy’s means of resistance, the delaypn the part of the British Government in forward-:jig the necessary ordnance and stores, and thejpeglect in providing any means of naval co-oper-tion, even such as might secure His Royal High-i-fiiess’s positions from molestation by the enemy’simall craft on the coast. The retreat was effectedi good order, and without any other loss thanjhat of the heavy iron ordnance, wiiich, being oniliip carriages, could not be removed, and the ar-jny rc-assembled at Fume* and Dixmude.10The Duke of York returned to Ton may, In |jwhich place and the neighbourhood, he continued ]l'until the close of the campaign. On the 22d and Jl26th October the enemy were repulsed in some at- Hitempts upon his advanced posts, near Baisieux Mand C^'soing. On the 28th October, His Royal irHighness made an attack upon Lanno}', in co- ||operation with a movement which General Wal- jlmoden undertook, by his direction, against Menin, j,which the enemy had occupied. The result of»these operations was the evacuation by the enemy jftof Menin, and their abandonment of the invest¬ment of Ypres, and of the siege of Nicuport, whichthey had been incouraged by his Royal Highness’*march to Englefontnine to undertake. In the de¬fence of Nieupol t, part of a detachment which hadlanded at Qstend, under Sir Charles Grey, as atemporary reinforcement to the Duke of York’*army, had co-operated.On the 29th of October, a very biillrant attackand surprise of the enemy and fortified port ofMarehiennes, in which they lost more than 2(X)0men, was cxeeuted by General Keay, under theorders of His Royal Highness. Some triflingaff airs in front of Tom nay, and on the l.ys, to¬wards the end of November, terminated the cam¬paign in West Flanders The army wentinto winter quarters, the Duke of York’shead quarters being at Ghent, whence, attendedby General Mack, he proceeded to England, toconcert the plan and measures for the ensuingcampaign, with the British Government.His Royal Highness returned, in the month ofFebruary 1794', from England to Courtrai.The army had been considerably reinforced bydrafts from the British regiments, and by addi*11ional corps of Hnnoverians, Hessians, and Darra-i itadt troops, taken into British pay. The troopstnder his command mored successively to Tour-lay, bt Amand, and the Plains of Cateau, wherehe greater part of the allied army was united, un-ier the command of the Emperor, on the 16th ofVpril. On the following day a general & successfulttack was made on the enemies’ positions at Vaux,>remont, Marets, Catillon, &c, and Landrecicsfas immediately invested. His Ro)al Highnessi fommnnded the right wing of the covering armyluring the siege. A detachment of cavalry fromlis corps gained a considerable advantage on theI •ith of April, near Villers en Canchia, towardsf Cambria; and on the 26th, His Royal Highnessi completely defeated, near Troixville, with greatlaughter, and the loss of 35 pieces of cannon, ai im ps of 30,000 men, which, under the orders ofleneral Chnpuy, attacked his position^ General; f'hapuy was taken prisoner, with a considerableuniljer of officers and men.On the 10th of May, the enemy, in con*i«; erable force, attacked the Duke of York’s positiona front of Tourhay, but H. R. H., by a judiciousmd well executed flank movement of the cavalry,Defeated and drove them across the Marque, with> great loss of men, and 13 pieces of cannon.The general attacks of the 17th and 15th ofufay, were the result of the assembly of the Alliedforces. The circumstances attending them, ththilure of the operations, and the share which his(loyal Highness’s Corps had in the events of thosejays, and in the loss sustained, aregenerally known.His Royal Highness’s Corps was left toliiontend against the entire force of the enemy,C lio were enabled to assail it in front, flank, and12rear. Every exertion of gallantry was unavailing;against such fearful odds, so disposed; and the re¬treat was with difficulty, and with a loss propor¬tionate to the arduous nature of a contest, maintained against large masses of troops, whose atten¬tion was to have been engaged by the ArchdukeCharles im the one side, and General Clerfayt onthe other. It is proper to mention, thatin this affair of Tournav, the English army wasquite surrounded by the French, and no resourcewas left but to cut their way through an enemy in¬finitely superior in numbers; this was no soonerthought of than measures were adopted for thepurpose. The French, however, not daring tooppose so brave a band, made a lane for them topass through, and coolly received them on eachtide with showers of musketry.In this movement, M.R. H. the Duke ofYorknarrowly escaped being made prisoner. Accom¬panied by an Austrian General and two otherofficers, he reached a village which had been takenthe preceding day from the enemy, and supposingit still in the hand# of the allies, they rode throughit at full gallop. In turning the corner of one ofthe streets rather sharply, they discovered that thevillage was then in the hands of the French, anda column of the enemy facing them ; the latter,supposing the Duke was at the head of a body oftroops, at first fled, after having fired a volley atthem, which killed the Austrian General by theside of His Royal Highness. Recovering, how¬ever, from this error, the French pursued the Dukeand his two companions until they came near ariver. The Duke threw himself off his horse, andso did one of the officers, and they waded throughthe river, the third taking the water with his horse.ISMl this was done under the fire of the French,i who bad brought a 6-pounder to bear on them.On the other side of the river, the Duke fortunatelynet with a led horse of Capt. Murray’s, which hei mounted, and thus arrived in safety at Tour nay.The allies resumed their positions in front ofi Cournay, the left wing being formed of the troopsnder the Duke of York’s orders. Upon this po¬rtion, or rather the right and centre ofii, Generalhchegru made a formidable attack on the 22d, for'Inch he had collected nearly 100,000. The vil-(ge of Pontechin, on the right, was taken and re-iken several times in the course of the day, andas alternately disputed by Austrians, Dutch, andi'litisli. The Duke of York having detachedj iajoi' -General Fox’s brigade from the left, to theipport of that point, the effort made by this bri-t bde decided the contest, and the village remainedi the possession of the Allies,fi On the 20th June, General Pichegru advanced•wards Mandel, and obliged General Clerfayt to1 irtire upon Deynse. This movement of the enemy,!y bringing them nearer to the Scheldt, renderedie Duke of York’s position in front of Tournay■> longer tenable, and his Royal Highness quit-,d, on the 24th June, with all the British, and alirt of the Hessian troops and encamped between,' tenaix and Oudenarde. The enemy attacked Gen-ral Clerfayt near Ghent, butwere repulsed. These• rovements occasioned the interruption of thelommunication with Ostcnd, where Lord Moira|pd arrived from England, on the 26th June, withlitreinforcement of 5000 infantry. His Lordship,; >wever, determined to effect a junction with His: loyal Highness’s army. On the latter day Ostendf*w»s vacuatedby Colonel Vyse, whom Lord Moirahad left there with a brigade of British troops,,which were embarked and removed with the ar¬tillery and stores.His lioyal Highness’s army was encamped, andcantoned between the Waal and the Leek, occupy¬ing the line of the former river as far as the islandof Bommel, in which Dutch troops were stationed.In this position the army continued unmolested*until His Royal Highness’s return to England*which took place early in December.In February, 1795, his Majesty was graciouslypleased to nominate the Duke of York to the situa¬tion of Commimder-in-Ch:el, an office, at that timenot less important than it had become arduous,,from the deplorable effects of the inefficiency andabuse which prevailed in every branch and depart¬ment of the military service. There existed nopositive system of discipline, no rule of promotion.In September, 1799, the Duke of York waacalled from the immediate duties of his official!situation at home, to assume the command of aniexpedition undertaken by the BritishGovcrnment*for the deliverance of Holland, at a period whemthere was reason to hope that the success obtainedby the Austrian and Russian armies in Germanyand Italy would prevent the French from offering;any vigorous resistance in Holland, especially it theattempt to emancipate that country should be sup¬ported by the inhabitants, as there appeared just)grounds to expect.Preparations were made early in the summerfor this enterprise, for which it was intended to:assemble 50,000 British troops, who were to bejoined of the coast of Holland by 17.000 Russians.On the ISth of September 1799, the day om15> irhich His Roj'al Highness landed in Holland and■> ook the command of an army of 36,000 men, of'horn 17.000 were llu-sians. On the 19th of the: ime month he attacked the French near Alktnm r,ut, in consequence of the want of discipline orourage of the Russians, he was obliged to retreat,i In the 3d of October he again attacked the FrenchCJnd succeeded in defeating them At length,i fter further unavailing efforts on the part of ourrmy, suspension of arms was agreed on, and fi*ally the British troops embarked for Fnglaud,nd prisoners were given upon both sides.11 Upon his return to England, the Duke of Yorki i»ain directed his time and attention to the arneli-i ration of the military system ; each successive year[forded fresh proofs ol the benefits arising fromis utiabafed exertions, and it must be admitted,lat owing to these, am! the many wise regulations> stablished by his Royal Highness, the Rntish; rmy, at this moment, offers a model of perfection> every military nation.; 1 In sketching the principal events of the life ofliisI.. H. there is one passage which will be brieflyated, viz The unforfunate connection with Mr*.• darke. Rumour at first began to be busy re-f aecting his official purity. The vague charges■ ilrich were thus set afloat soon embodied thern-st'lve* in the defined shapes of pamphlet', letters,..c. Insinuations were circnlateil that such wasi te influence exercised by Mrs. Clarke over hisf.oyal Highness, and so notorious was that influ-ice, that ladies and gentlemen of the highest rank?came her suitors for military promotions — eveniJivinesof the Church, had considered her as theniuntain of preferment;16On the 27lh of Jan. 1809, Col. WarcIIe intro¬duced the subject in the House of Commons, andsubmitted five cases of corruption to the House, ‘which he was prepared to substantiate. The firstcase was that of Torryn. He paid Mrs Clarke,*L.500 on beinir promoted to the rank of Major ;or more correctly speaking, this sum was paid toa silversmith on Mrs Clarke’s account, in partpayment of a service of plate which had been or¬dered for herself and his R. H. The second case:was that of an exchange which was effected be-tweeen two colonels (Brooke and Knight) and forwhich Mrs Clarke received L.200. The thirdcase was of a different description, that two mostmeritorious officers, who mutually wished to ex¬change, were prevented from doing so, in conse¬quence of their inability to make the presentswhich were expected. The fourth case was moreimportant than any of the former. A Major Shawhad, after repeated negociations, obtained fromMrs C. the assurance that he should receive theappointment ofDep. Barrack-master at the Cape,on paying her L. 1000. He ultimately receivedthe appointment, but was enabled to make good toMrs Clarke no more than L.500 The Ladycomplained to the Commander-in-Chief, and theunhappy defaulter, instead of going out to theCape, was kept at home, and reduced to half-pay.The fifth case was that, in 1804-, Col. French wasappointed, through Mrs Clarke’s influence, to con¬duct a levy. He was to pay over to her a guineaof the bounty of each man, together w ith the saleor patronage of commissions to a certain extent.A loan was also to be raised by the same party forthe use of the Duke, for which he was to obtain aconsiderable sum of money from Government for17Col. French. The last case related to Capt. Mat¬ing, who, through the influence of MrsClarke,wasI appointed to an ensigncy, and to the rank of Lieut,land Capt., he being all the while acting as Clerkin a public office, without ever having handled asword even for the sake of form. The present Dukeof Wellington was then a member of the house,and warmly espoused the cause of the Duke. Af¬ter some Debate the House agreed to receive theevidence that might be adduced by the accuser, ina committee of the whole House. On the 9th ofMarch, the case being closed, Mr Wardle movedan address, in which, after reciting, substantiallythe nature of the evidence, and the inference to bedrawn from it, he expressed an opinion that theDuke ought to be removed from his office. Thisemotion gave rise to a long debate. Several amend¬ments were proposed, one by the Chancellor of theExchequer, declaring the innocence of the Duke :another by Mr B. Bathurst, declaring him to beguilty, at the same time acknowledging his greatI official services. On the 17th, the Chancellor ofthe Exchequer proposed some amendment. How¬ever, whilst these debates were about to close, his'R H. waited on the King, and tendered his resig-i nation in a written document, which commencestin these terms;—‘ The House of Commons, aftera long and full investigation of the merits of certain'allegations against him, passed a resolution of hisinnocence; he might now approach his Majesty,Hand venture to tender to him his resignation ofthe chief command of his Majesty’s army, as hejicould no longer be suspected of acting from any([apprehension of the result, or be accused of havingshrunk from the extent of an inquiry, from which,t painful as it had been, he trusted he should appear,18«wn to those who had been disposed to comdeinn his conduct, to have met with the patience and firmness which could arise only fromconscious feeling of innocence.’ In his retirementhe Duke used to console himself in the society < jjhis friends. In tilt" mpnntimn thp nrwl thIn the meantime the charge and thproceedings on it made a sensible impressionl lianks wore forwarded from various places tCol. Wardle. Some of those addresses were ch#racterised by very strong language, and.no doufcmust have been to Col. Wardle more than a counter-balance for the charges of Jacobinism, conspracy, treason, &c. which were levelled against hitin and out of the House.While the unprejudiced part of the communit!deplored the retirement of his Royal Highnesithe whole army deeply participated in that feelingbut the habits of subordination, which had been sjessentially promoted by the personage whose mi:fortune they regretted, and which were, upon thoccasion, enforced by his advice to those corp.jwhich expressed a desire to address him, taugHthem to bear it in silence, confident that the tintwas approaching when the merits of prejudtcwould vanish before a conviction of the truth.That day at length arrived, when the wishes tthe country at large were eagerly met by the Himtrious Heir Apparent, and the Uuke of York onemore consented to fill the high situation to whit::his extraordinary merits so jostly entitled him.During the interval of his Royal Highness,retirement, the office of Commander-in-Chief ha:been filled by General Sir David Dundas, who*study it was to conform, in all respects, to the systern and the regulations established fy his R. HThe Duke of York’s commendable selection c9those holding official military situations, under hk- mmediate direction, was truly praise-worth}', and’ ulthtiugh some of them were early distinguished byfbis friendship, it must be observed, in proof of the3 issertion, “that private favour had not influencedthe choice;” that General Brownriggs, his firstMilitary Secretary, became first known to him bylis meritorious discharge of the duties of Deputyi ^uarter-Master-Gcneral, in Flanders, in 1794,i md that the distinguished individuals, who suc-* tessfully filled that office, were not personally: mown to his Royal Highness until some years* idler he became Commandcr-in-Chief, and thent owed their appointments to his ufficial sense ofi heir value.The Duke was regular in his attendance to bu¬rliness, to which the greater part of every day was' devoted. Every arrangement, the most minute,was submitted by the heads of departments lor hi;nanction; the memorial of every officer—the pe-i ;itioo of every soldier, engaged his personal atten-I '.ion, nor were any suffered to pass unnoticed.f | Tuesdays and Fridays (during the Session ofi Parliament), and other periods, Tuesdays only,i were the days on which his Royal Highness gaveaudiences to Officers of every rank, who wiihed »orwpproach him on business.it In the year 1H20, the Duchess of York died,itafter having endured a lingering and painful dis-;rase. With this Lady, the Duke lived on termso! decency, but not of affection,i Shortly afterwards his Royal Highness drewailhe attention of the public towards him by a de-iic'aration of his intention to sit and vote dm ng theijjQueen’s trial.jj The speech which his R. H delivered in Parlia-■20ment on the 25th April 1823, on the subject of th*Catholic claims, has been too much the subjectrecent commentary to require any description!Whatever were the feeling of others on the subjecof it, nothing can be more certain, than that hi{R. H. spoke with the most perfect sincerity, anounder a sacred consciousness that he was rii'htHis R. H. in the early part of his career, as welas in the later stages of his life, showed a strongattachment to the amusement of horse-racinand his attendance at Newmarket was punctua1but he never allowed his partiality for this recreattion to interfere with his duties; and it was knovuthat he olten suffered a great degree of inconvenience in hastening his return to town that the busiiness ot his office might undergo no embarrassmentHaving now brought this hasty sketch to a closeit may be said—what those who were acquaintswith his character well knew—that in private lifehe was sincerely respected and beloved as an amiable, affable, kind, and warm-hearted man. Hreadily lent a hand to distress, whenever it was iihis power to relieve it; and it was often observeiof h ini, that he underwent frequent struggles whecases came before him in which it was impossiblfor him to reconcile the granting of favour whicwould be inconsistent with the rigid adminnt £ition of his public duty. In his official capacityhis merit is attested by the state of discipline iwhich the army is now kept—by the fairness witwhich honours are granted — anti by the genengood conduct and sense of honour which arc irfused into the profession. If he had not the praisof being the originator of all those salutary regulations himself, yet he had to boa' of that wine:Queen Elizabeth thought the highest praise—namely, placing about him able and intelligenti counsellors.I His Royal Highness had laboared under ai Iropsy since the month of July last, for the relief* nf which His Royal Highness underwent an ope-i -ation on the 3d of September.The same unclouded state of his intellects ad-nitted of his reading the newspapers constantly,nnd of feeling interested in what was going on,nad tine opinions of his medical attendants been> repressed in daily bulletins of his health,i his intelligence would have recoiled uponII im with a fatal force, by destroying those san-'uine hopes of recovery which contributed so es-entially to the efforts of art to do him good; anilIvould have precipitated the sad event which we all1 low deplore. It is this consideration alone;hnt explains and justifies the silence of the Physi-nians on the subject of the Royal Duke’s health ;i —a regular statement of which would have beenairly demanded, under other circumstances, byhe zealous and affectionate attachment of a loyaldieople to the Presumptive Heir of the Throne.I His Royal Highness expired on Friday 5thJanuary 1827, at twenty minutes past nine in theEvening. He was in his sixty-fourth year, beingworn on the 16th of August, 1763. His style andditlcs were as follows:—Prince Frederick, Dukeif York and Albany, Earl of Ulster in Ireland,uBishop of Osnaburgh, a Field Marshall, Com-tmander-in-Chief of all the Land Forces, Colonel ofiihe First Regiment of Guards, Colonel-in-Chiefoflihe 60th Regiment of Infantry, Officiating Grand{Master of the Order of the Bath, High Steward of42Nevr Windsor, and Warden and Keeper of NeForest, 1 latnjKhire, KnigJit of the Garter, and <1various F<ireign Orders, &c. &c.By the death of His Iloyal Highness, the sucession to the Crown devolves upon His RoyiHigh ness the Duke of Clarence, who is now He]Presumptive to the Throne of these Realms, ain the event of his decease, without issue, HMajesty’s Royal niece. Alexindrina Vietori;daughter of the late Duke of Kent, will stain that important relation to the Imperial CrowiIn the event of her deailr, the snecessiewould descend to His Royal Highness tire Dukof Cumberland ; and after him, to his solPrince George Frederick, who is the same agas the Princess Aieximlrina, there being on!three days difference In the period of their birthThe Duke of Sussex, the Duke of Cambridgiand his children, would ascend the Throne onlin the case of death removing all these priclaimants.His Royal Highness was of a fair and sanguircomplexion, above the middle size, of a robust anvigorous constitution, which promised a long lifIn his youth he was accounted handsome, but fimany years before his death he was exceeding!corpulent, and his form had lost its symnietrGreat good nature was expressed in his opecountenance, which, however, had by no mearan intellectual cast. His voice had little flexibilitand his utterance was disagreeable.FUNERAL.Sewral hour, befor* daylight, on Saturday, 20th January, tilmeets of the metropolis presented a scene of bustle and' activit;which exhibited a marvellous contrast to its wonted stillness ansilence at that early period.When the clock struck eight, the procession issued from the Pilace in nearly the following order ;—23Tlu-ae Life tii*ar<!s, lo clew the w»y.Eight Kuights Merkhclmeu, with blackll f «»o Mourning Coactrei anti four, followed by several Mourn¬ing Coaches drawn by six horses,fhe Carriage of the deceased Duke, drawn by six horses, decorat-i ed with escutcheons, and carrying his Coronet and Baton,A Detachment of His Royal Highness's Body Guard.THIS HEARSE.Another Detachment of his Body Guard.The King's Carriage, drawn hy six horses.The Carriages of the different Members of the Royal Family, eachdrawn by six horses.Another Detachment of the Life Guards.1 A detachment of Lancers, 10 abreast, brought up the roar., As the hearse and coach proceeded along,ell the troops present-i d arms in the reverse order, the Lancers lowering their lances andi anuers. An immense number of attendants dressed in black,i /slked on eitlier stile of the hearse, and of the horses. In anotherne beyond them, walked twelve Yeomen of the Guard, on eachi de of tile hearse and horses; their pikes, about the heads of' diieli was black crape, were lowered and carried under the righttns.|| Eight horsemen in deep black, with funeral truncheons; twoi eralds on horscbirk, and a troop of about 50 Life Guards, who| ad passed nut of the park, through the iron gate hy Marlborough-. muse, with swords reversed, under the right arms, followed,r'he troops here, as in other portion* of the procession, proceed-d two hy two.fl The first of the Royal Carriages, attending to form part ofhe Funeral Procession, next joined the line. These car-S jiages and all the other parts of the Procession that followed cameut of the Park, where every thing had I e. n so arrange d as to pre-ent the least unnecessary delay. This first carriage was hisj alajcsty's town (not the state) carriage. It was drawn by sixMorses. Behind it were four footmen, dressed in the new Court; ■ very, as were all the Coachmen and footmen of the several otheri toy a 1 carriages, succeeding to His Majesty’s carnage. On*Uch side of his Majesty's carriage, several mourners, with funer-.i (I truncheons walked; and ntourners walked on each side of theorses, some of them keeping hold of the horses' heads.Ft The Duke of Clarence’s carriage followed, and it wassuccred.d d hy those of the Duke of Sussex, the Princess Sophia, theiiluke of Gloucester, and the Duchess of Kent. They were•trawii hy six bay horses, each, and behind each were three foot-. ien.n| The carriage of the Prince Leopold of Saxe Coburg followed,ifit was also drawn by six bay horses, and behind it were four foot-24-men. On each tide of the«e several coaches, walked mourners withfuneral truncheons.Twenty mourners on horseback came next, with large silk scarfs,and bearing funeral wands.CEREMONIES IN ST. GEORGE’S CHAPEL.At eight o’clock, according to previous concert, the proces*®ion reached its destination, and the servants, grooms, trumpets, anddrums, filed without the door. The individuals in the mourningand other carriages then alighted and entered the Chapel. The !hearse finally approached, and the body was immediately carriedinto the south aisle by ten Yeoman of the Guard, where it wasplaced on the bier, which was drawn rlose up to the door for its,reception. It was then received by the Dean and Prebendariss, at¬tended by the Choir.The soldiers who flanked the platform, and who canned torches,had previously lighted them, and thus an admirable view was obtain¬ed of the procession which was then formed under the direction ofthe Lord Chamberlain's Assistants, and moved down the southaisle and up the naive, into the Choir.Upon the arrival of the Procession within the Choir, the ear was:wheeled on the platform, and the Coronet, Baton, and Cushions,/were placed upon the Coffin.His Royal Highness the Duke of Clarence then took his seat-upon a chair placed at the head of the Coffin ; his supporters stand*ing on each side.His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex occupied a seat closeto that of his Royal Brother.T’ue Lord Chamberlain of his Majesty’s Household took his sta¬tion at the feet of the Corpse; and the Supporters of the Pall,,and of th Canopy, arranged themselves ou each side.