Farmer s SonOR. THEUnfortunate Lovers.TO WHICH ARB ADDED,THE CAPTAIN OF LOVE0I MY MOTHER DIDSO BI*FORE ME.VJ U S T T H E THING.THE WILD ROVERiGLASGOW,Pi-iritcC ’>7 J. & M. P.obertfcUi Saltcia;ket. iSrj( 2 >THE FARMER’S SON.TUN£«—THE ROYAL COTTAGER.YOUNG lovers all, I pray, draw near.Unto thcfc lines which [ have here,£fow a young Lady was undone.By loving of a Farmer’s Son.She was of birth and high renown,Her portion was fix hundred pound 5But foon this Lady's heart was won,'When (he firft faw the Farmer’s Son.She fent him letters ev’ry day,Becaufe he to Her would nothing fay,Becaufe he knew he was engag’d,.Unto her handfome chaftiber-maid#His age it was juft twenty-two,As I the truth do tell to you ;He was well lhap’d in ev’ry limb.This Lady fell in love with him.As fhe was walking in the grove,By chance (he met her own true love, *To him {he faid. Upon my life,I do defign to be thy wife.O Lady fair, that cannot be.For you to be a bride ta me,Bccaufe I’m going to be wedTo Sally, your own chamber-maid*r - * , .,(■ 3 )She wrung her hands and tore her hair,'Crying, *vlas ! Cm near defpair!How can you flight me ? Sir, flic faid.Still for a fniy chamber-maidYou know l have a good eftate.My lather left to me of late.And you the Lord of all lhall be,: If you’ll confent to marry me.He faid. If l from her was free.Then l would love you tenderly jI But i am bound to her t>y oath,Therefore f cannot wed you, both..O then, quoth (he, if it be fo,I loon will work her overthrew ;For fhe ray waiting-maid lhall be,h And we fhall crofis the raging fea.For pretty Sally Ihe did fend.And laid on you l do depend ;That you my waiting-maid fhall be.And we’ll pafs to \tfeft-Klorida*THiis Lady had contrived fo.And alLto work her overthrow ;For as this maWeh fell afleep.So plung’d they her into the deep.Unto the Gtore (he did.return.Her confcience did as fuel burn.For Ihe could never be at reltUntil Ihe had the deed confefs’d.i • ' -Now fUe's confin’d unto a goal.The Lord have mercy on her foul}Crying, Alas ! I am undone.That ever I lov’d a Farmer’s Sc a*This young man was in great diftrefsHe tore his hair and fmote his bread ;O then diitra&ed he did run ;In bedlam lies the Farmer’s Son,Young lovers all of each degree.That’s handing by, come pity me ;And never do as ( have done,I’ve ruin’d myfelf and Farmer’s Son,And for the fake of curfed gold.This maiden’s precious blood was fold jBut now at laft as we may fee.It prov’d the ruin of all the threeThk C A P T A 1 N of L O V £.YE Nymphs and ye Swaiils,vVho are youthful and gay,y&ttend *0 my callAnd oe bleft while ye may $Lads and Laffcs hithpr co.ne.To the found ot my drum,I have treafureg in ftorc,That you never have feen.Chorus. Then hade let us rove.To the Ifland of Love,Where Cupid is Captain,And Venus is Queen.] Each Nymph or fixte.cn.Who would fain be a wife jShall foon have a partnerTo blefs her for life.IThen pleafe hither come.To the found of my drum,I have fweethearts in llore,'That you never have feen: Then hade,;i| Would a youth be but blcft.With a Nymp*u to his mind,i Let him enter my lift.And his wiih he will find,j I can blefs him for life,f With a kind loving wife,IS More beautiful far,!' Than the Nymph e’erf was feen. Then, &c*I In Papbas we knowNo diforder nor ftrife ; -I Each Nymph and each Swain,May be happy for life.In tranfport and joy,We each moment employ,i And tafte fuch delights,I As never yet was iecn. Then hade, &c.My MOTHER did so before ME#¥ A M a brifle young lively Lafs,J|[ a little more than twenty ;And by my comely air and drefe,I can have fweethearts plenty ■;( i )But I’ll beware of wed ock’s fnare,tho* dying fwains adore me ;The men I ’ll traz \ myfeli: to pleafe,my mother did fo before rae.In rich brocades and d amends bright,.like gayeft fprings delighting jMy parts and honpur {hall anite,to make me more inviring ;For l*il advance, and learn to dance,to pleafe fhall be my glory,I’ll learn to trace each itep with grace,my mother did io before me.1*11 drefs as fine as fine can be,and pride (hall be my pleafure;And though my neighbours envy me,to mind them i’ve no leifure,HI take delight, both day and night,to be talk’d of in Itory,1*11 have it faid. There g^es a Maid lmy mother did fo before me.To Park or Play PH often go,to fpend each leifure hour,HI walk, and talk with every beau,and make them feel my power.But f a dart fliould pterce my heart,trom one that does a.lore me,• 'Wc’H wed and kifs, what harm’s in thismy mother did this before me.Then will 1 manage, when I wed," my huiband to perfeftion ;^ T 7 ) . r.iat as good wives have often laid,“ Keep hufban is in fubjeftion.”: 'To fnarling tool fhall o*er me rule,or e*er eclipff my glory ji 'll let him fee. I’ll miftrefs be,my mother did fo befor^ me.j U S r THE THING.On Newgate fleps Jack Chance was found,nd bred up near Gile's pound,Hy Rory*s true, deny it who can,)y fancy leering Billingsgate Naa[er bofom glow'd with heart-fr-lt joy,<Vhen firft (h: beheld the lovely bov,"hen home the prize (he ftraight did bring,nd they all allow’d he was juft the thing.At twelve years old, as we are told,e youth was fturdy, ftout, and bold,le had learn’d to curfe. to fwear to fight,‘ nd every thing bur read and write ;/ith daddies clean, he'd flip between\ crowd, and knan a clout unleentitnd what he got he home would bring,and they all allow’d he was juft the thing.But when he grew to man's,eftate,jlis mind it ran on fooiething great,i thieving then he fcorn’d to tramp,o hir'd a pad and went on the fcamp."o firm ip thc.Par'k was all his pride,itfith a famous whore ftuck by his fide;'■•p- .. * •. . • - \ / m( » tAt dobs he all flatb fongs would fing.And they all allow'd he was juft the thing.A .His manual exercife he had gone thro*.Both Bridewell pump, and ilorfe-pond toojHis bad- had often felt the fmartOf Tyburn jigs at the tail of a cart;He ftood the patter, but that was no matter.He gammon’d the t we! ve,& wor k’d on the water iBut a pardon he got from a gracious King,And fwaggering Jack he was juft the thing.Blue cockade in hat, well arm’d for war.With bludgeon ftout, or iron bar,To head a mob he ne’er would fail;At gutting a mafs-houfe, or burning a jail.But a viftim he tell to his country's laws.And dy'd a? iaft in religion’s eaufe;No Pop'ry made the blade to fwing.And when tuck’d up he was juft the thing.■ i -i- ifT-.n inn ~'tt- mTHE ROVER.AW A Y you rover,For fhame give over.You play the wild rover fo like an afs;You are for flormingYou think you’re charming.Your faint performing, we read »n ycur face I:GLASGOW, LPrinted byJ.&M. ROBERTSON,Saltmarket, 1801