Dor ajf us and bmmiaO R, T K £>Life and AdventuresGerman PrinceCs| GLASGOW, 1fRINTED BY J. and M. ROBERTSON,j [No. 18.] Saltmarket, ^ Il8o7- r 1smimTHERoyal Shepherdefs.BEFORE the Chriftian religion had blcffed theEuropean world, in the. well known king¬dom of Bohemia, now fubjedt to the German em-' perbr, there reigned a King whole name was P;tn-dofta, fortunate in w'ar, and bountiful to his fub-jecfs in peace, which made him feared abroajl,and beloved at home. Htrhad a Prince's, whofenay.e was BelUria, great by her birth, but greaterby her virtue, living with the King her hhlband,in that lave and amity, that made them both ha papy in each other; and fortune, as a pledge •* boththeir mutual loves, fsnt them a fbn whp was the, darling of his parents, and the joy of their fubiedfs;who, to teitify their inward joy, made public re-ioicings and triumphs throughout the kingdom.Scarce were the public triumphs for the birthof the Prince giade an end of, but a frefh occafion5 uf jby offered itfelf, for ^giflus, the Sicilian king,T •' who had been brought ug with Pandofia in hisyouth, that he might renew their formet friend¬ship, came with a fplendid rednue, befitting the' dignity of his perfon, to give him a royal vifir,and was ente~tained ,by. Pandofta fuitably to thehonour he did him thereby. And acquainting Bel-laria, his queen, with the great love he had for E-giftus, and of the honour that he did him by hisvifit $ he defired her aUb to flicw him all the re-fpeft and kindnels that was due to fo great a kingV Vv ^V- ■ ande" ■ '' ■' v. ’ • iTHE LITE AND ADVENTURES, fee. 5and fo particular a friend. Bellafia, wV!cvery pink ol courtefy (bciug alio williag to obligeher hulband) entertained Egitlu?, with io endear¬ing a familiarity, that Egiftus, who law the queenof fuch a virtuous and courteous a difpofuion, h.Ma molt particular efteem for her, an'd took greatdelight in her company, whillt fire, when her hu,-band coula not be prefect, by reafon of feme affairsof Rate, would walk with him in the garden, where(he would entertain him with pleafant and directingdifeourfe, to his great fatisfaction ; but^this great,familiarity between them, had very fatal effects}for it is not enough (o be alwiiys ianoceot- in ouractions, but we mull likewife take, care, that theybe free from fufpicion. The want of luclvc-irqi n-f, (Rioo, was a very great overfight in Bellaria andRus; for, though there was beither evil a£t norevil thought between them, yet Pandoft-a, confider-ing that his wife was molt beautiful, ancqhis friendEgiflus a very brave^nud c mely perfjnage, begand iaumate' 'withto imagtmc that their being4 Trail T1I-E AND ADVENTURESwith each other could no more be confined withiathe limits of virtue, , than flax and fire, when joinedtogether, could be kept from burning. For, heknew that Egiftus was a rnnn, and, therefore, fub-jeft to love, and his wife was a woman, and there¬fore, might be overcome; fo that revolving thefethings in his mind, he began to be jealous, thatimagining his bed was defiled, and his perfon dif-honoured, he was refllefs till he had fent them toreft in their graves. For, after the devil of jealoufyhad once poftefled him, he mifeonftrued all theyfind or did, even their moft innocent and inoflenfivewords and attions. The queen, bavins no otherdefign, in the civility and rd’petft (he (hewed toEgiftus, but to honour him-whom her hatband (oloved, and for whom he htirdelf had Inch a refpeff.And, when (he (aw her hufband's countenance wasfo"altered to her, that (he had nothing but frowns,and four looks, in (lead of that pie ■(ant (ir.iiing af-peft, with which he was tiled to entertain her here¬tofore, (heexamined all her aftjons with the ftriff- :eft ferotiny imaginable, and could not iee 'whereinfire had given him any jolt occafion* for this al¬teration; and, therefore, intended to take a time to "demand of him what it was that had rendered himmore mcroil: and out of humour thiui he nfed to be.Put pan do ft a, taking it for granted, that his friendEgiftus had played forte foul playv was refblyed todiflembie the grudge he bore him, that he mightthe better revenge the fuppofed injury he had re¬ceived; and, therefore, opening his mind to hiscup-bearer, he told him the jealoufy he had con¬ceived of Kg; ft us: end that he was refoived Torevenge it hy poifoning him; and, that it mightbe done without any fufpreion of trerehciy, hewould refer the execution of it to his hand, andthat he would liberally reward him for it. Fra- ■. * ' ■ ' nion >OF A GERMAN PRINCESS. 5; \nion, for i'o was the cap-bearer named, being un¬willing to bean aftorin I'uch a bloody tragedy, didwhat he could to perl'uade the king from fiich afatal refolution, alledging feveral weighty reafoasfor that end; but he might as well have fpokeato the wind, for there was no altering of Pandofla;from h's purpole. 'f elling Franion plainly, thatfeeing he had already made him acquainted withIds mind, he had but one of thefe two things tochafe, that is to fay, either to do what he com¬manded him, or be made a facrifice himlelf for hisdifobedience, Franion promifed (or at leafl Teem¬ed fo to do) to difpatch Egifhjs out of the world,as foon as a fitting opportunity offered irfelf.Tbo’ Franion, to prevent the fury of the kingagain If his own life, had promifed to take awaythat of Egiftus, yet, he was not fully relolyedon me matter, but that taking of advice on hispillow, he more fedately confidered of it, andfound that this was only the effect of the king’sunre .fonable jeajoufy, without any good groundsfor it, being very well futistied, that if iSgiltus,which he did not believe, could be guilty of io fouia thought, yet, Bellaria, whom he knew to be. anjextraordifiary woman for goodnefs and virtue,would never conlent to it; and, therefore,,infkadbf poifoning Egiflus, he reloived to make him, ac-fquainted with the danger he was in, which he didaccordingly. Egiftus at firft was hardly perfuadedcto believe that Pandofta could be guilty of fo bar¬barous a treatment, to a friend, that fo dearly lovedihim, and that came on purpofe t6 vifit him in love.But, conndering what a cruel paffton jealoufy is,iwbere it is once entei tain<vl, and how unreafottablejiiib, and Franioh, iblemnJy proteftjng the truth o£what he told him, Egiftus began tc. be p<;rluarded[Of the truth thereof, and to confider allb, that ia loveI atid..6 THE LTTE AN EX ADVENTURESand kingdoAiP, neither E h nor i iws do meet withthat regard which they,ought to have. And, thatI i.ndolia, befides the girt ting of his revenge upon'the account of his jesloufy, might alfo think byhis death, t® go and invade the kingdom of Sicily,and, in the ccnfufion that kingdom would be inby Ins death, he might make a conqueft, thereof,r-nd unite it to his own. So that he received fromTranion this kind information, with a gratitudeSuitable to the importance of it; promifiog, thatif he would let him have his affiikiace in facilitat¬ing his efcape, as foon as he arnved at Syracuie,which wasethe chief city of hisi kipg^atn, he wouldmake him an ample amends for the hazard he iwou'd tun in ferving him. Then, promifing. hewould do his utmoft to ferve him, and alio, tellingI him that he had fome fkill in navigation, and, his\ ting acquainted with all the ports and havens oftRe kingdom, and the danger of the Teas, he hoped,would be of very great fervice to him. And, in¬deed, he was as good as his wrord herein ; for, fe-cretly joming iu council with the admiral of Egif-tus5 navy, he fo ordered the matter, that they wereail rigged and fet a-float without any notice beingtaken of it by the Bohemians; and Franion ac¬quainted Pand»Iia, that he had worked himfelf in¬to fuch a familiarity with the houfehold of Egiflus,' that he did not fear to acgomplifl) what he had| promifed him in three or four days, and, in thattime the poifon he had been preparing would befully ready- Pandofla, overjoyed that his revenge; was fo near being accomplifhed, had not the leadJufpicion of Fr anion ; who by that means, had thegreater liberty to carry oa his delign, and fo great¬ly efftfled it, that, without any oppofition, they ;all j-ot on board y Egiftus making all the hade he ,ceuld, and carrying fo to Pandofta as if he had no ,fufpicica^■1•K : . • •'/ - - ; .. ■ :OF A GERMAN PRINCESS. ' 7fufpicioo of him. Being ail got ont to fca, and:ly o'ot of fight,brought toill the wind favouring them, Egiftus, glad that haft had elcaped fuch imminent danger, joyfully faied to Sicily, where, being arrived, heFranion to honour and preferment.Egiftus and his retinue were fcarcely outiibefore word of their departure wasiking, at which the whole city was in an upiibecaufe they went away by night .without takingritheir leaves-, of which, though the king prelently'uefTed the reafon, yet his rage was inexprellible,or, inftead of revenging himfelf upon Egiflus, a-se had defigned, he now law himfelf defeated, af»bring himielf that Franion bad difeovered all henew, and,- their going fo privately away, did con-trirm him in his jealouly, he making that an ;irgu-’.raent of Egifius’guilt, which was only the efFeft ofais fear, and prudent care to get out of the clutcheshim who had premeditated his death withoat aftiy8 - THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESjnfl ca’Je. But, though Egiftus was out of hrs.rtach, yer he was glad that Bellaria was net withEfra. but flili \v ?? within his power, and, therefore,he Immediately commands her to be carried topih until his farther pleafure was known. Bel-lana, knowing nothing of all this, was under thegredleff fiitprile imaginable, to hear that (he vascharged \vi*'h confpiring with Egtftas .againft herhulhandj and of their having committed lewdnefstogether. But, as (he was a (1 ranger to guilt, Cowas Ihe to fear, and therefore, .went willingly a-long with the guard to prifen, complaining, no*-withftandmg, of'the hardnefs of her fortune, that jher innocence could be no defence to her.But Pandofhi, who had abandoned himfelf tothe titmcll r r e, can led a proclamation to be madeknd puSlifhcd through the realm, that the queenand Egidv.s, by the help of Franion, who had liedv.'ith Sr.-n, had not only committed adultery, buthad a!:o eoDtpircd- to take away the king’s life.Though thofe who were, acquainted with the ex¬emplary virtue of the queeh w'ould give no creditto the proclamation, yer, the iudden and lecretdeparture of Egifhis and Fr.tnion, gave fome um¬brage thereto among the common people^ who on-ly judge by outward appearances Bellaria, beinginformed of the prbclamation, and knowing herinnoeency, lent to the king to requetl that (liemight be brought to trial, that (lie might therejuftify her' innocence, or fuffer for her crimes, if :(he was found guilty! but her hufband, overcome Lwith rage and jealoufy, refilled to grant either.But this was not the queen’s only unhnppinefs, forbeing with child, (he expected in a (hort rime tolie in. The king having notice given him of that1cj^cumftance by the keeper of the prilbn, it rather ,tncre-afed his fufpicioa, inlbmuch that he (wore ina greatOF A GERMAN PRINCESS.I great rage, * That the, and the baltard-_brat (lie| had (hould die, though the Gods themieives (aid: no.’ Believing the child was begot by Egillus,:nd not that himfelf was the father or it.Bellaria* was, foine time after brought to bed>f a fair and beautiful daughter, the news where¬of being carried to Pandolfa, he, in (lead of re-hieing thereat, determined, that both the childnd the mother (hould be burnt. To prevent:kim from which Ins nobles laid before him thepparent innocency of the infant princefs, and theiinblemilhed charaffer of her royal mother, who,ad always obeyed him with that refpeef, and lov<-d him with that tenderneis, that left her withouthe lead llradow of a crime. And that even tho’pe had been guilty (of which there appeared notlie lead proof) yet, to be banifaed from his bed,Vas a fufficient punilhment, i'eeing it was more.ke the Gods, to be pitiful and forgive, tfun tohunifh offenders with extreme rigour, eipeciallyhofe of reafon, whatever were in thefe allcga-uons. All the anfwer that Pandoda returned was,that Rcllirla, being an adulterefs, the child was ai!rat to call him father. Yet, he lb far yielded toihe importunity of his nobles, as not to lay vi6-Ipnt hands on the child, thodgh, at the fame time,■ e defigned to expofe it to a mod cruel dc-ith, andherefore, ordering a little cock-boat to' be made,e caufed the infant to be put therein, and cora-Ilined to the mercy of the (ea. We cannot ex-refs the grief and lamentation of Bell am, for theruel (entence paffed on her innocent babe, andlat by its own father. But offther prayers notiars could prevdi: the little infant was committed> the mercy of the mercilefs waters. Bellaria urnsbrought upon her trial; and liandoda, not latisfledwould not permit (b infamous awith10 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESwith the poor, yet cruel revenge he had taken a-gaiaft an infant, refolved next to glut himfelf with,the death of Bellaria. But this could not be done;without a triaL and, therefore, ifie^nbliag his no¬bles and counfellors, he cauled hereto be broughtinto open court, charging her with having com¬mitted adultery M>ith Egiftus, and confpiring withpranion to poilbn the king her hulband ; but, be¬ing afraid that their wickednefs was found out,Egiflus and Franion fled by night, and made theireicape.Bellaria perceiving nothing would fatisfy herhufband but her death, (he plucked up her fpirits,and boldly told the king, (he fhewed for nothing butlaw and juflice, for flie neither needed nor defiredhis mercy, and, therefore, hoped (he would notbe condemned without feeing the face of her nc-cufers; and being heard what ("he could lay inher own defence, the noblemen told the king, thatwhat the queen had fpoken was but reatbn, andtherefore, entreated the king, that her accufersmight be openly fworn and examined •, and, if bythe proof, (lie was found guilty, the king would be:juftified in the punifhment he inflidled. The king1 'knowing well enough he could produce no evi¬dence, Told them it was his pleafure, they wouldtake his affirmation as fufficient evidence. Bel la r-rta told the king, that if his will muft Hand for alav^, it was in vain for the jury to give in theirverdidb, and therefore, kneeling down upon herknees, ffie deflred the king, for the love he boreto his young fon Garinter, v«bom (he brought intothe world, that he would grant her only this re- :quefl, which was, that he would fend (ix of hisnoblem?n, which he moll confided in, to Pelphos, ito inquire of Apollo, whether (he was guilty of tthe crimes (lie was accufed of, or not ; and if, by, theOF A GERMAN PRINCESS. itUie fentencc of the oracle, (he was condemned as; guilty, fhe wonld be content to (offer the greatefci punishment that could be ififlifted on her.' Uhis1 reqneft of the queen’s was ib real'onable, the kingi agreed that ambaffadors fhould be forthwith dii-< patched to Delphos, and ordered the queen backsto prifon. The Lords that he fent on this etnbal-1 fy, were iuch as he knew had no great kindnefsTor the queen, and, conlequeotly, would not im-ipoi’e on him in her behalf. Their equipages beingI got ready, they embarked for their voyage, and iathree weeks time arrived at- Delphos, where, offer-ing to Apollo and his priefls the sccoftcmcd gifts,.and kneeling down before the altar, they cr.vfed.an anfwer to their dem.inds, to which Apollo,'with an audible voice, replied, ‘ Bohemi-ans, what* you find behind the kar, that take and depart,‘ for that contains your anfwer.1 Upon whichithey looked behind the altar, and found a fcfoll of.(parchment rolled up, but what was written thereinIthey could not tell, being forbidden to open it tillithey had arrived in Bohemia, and come into thecking’s prefence, as they would avoid the difplea-uf’ure of Apollo. The Bohemian Lords, having re-ticeived the fcroll, put it up carefully, without pre*illuming to look into it; and lb taking th&r leave,,rin a Chert time arrived again in Bohemia, and wentii> to the king’s palace, where there were great crow'dsliof people waiting to hear the decifion of this grand1 affair. The king was glad to lee his ambaCfadorsI returned, and having inquired of them what news?They told him, that they had brought an-anfwerfrom Apollo in a fcroll of parchment, which theyWere commanded not to open, till they came intothe prelence of the king: The noblemen, there-,upon, entreated the king that the queen might be(prefeat, to hear her condemnation or acquittal;whichnrf -r-12THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESwhich the king immediately ordered; and, thequeen being brought, the king commanded, thatone of the moft noble Lords fhould read the icroll,which accordingly he did," the words it containedbeing theie:Sufpicion is no proof, ahd jealoufyIs an unequal judge this caule to try :Lellaria is a chafte and virtuous queen*,And in Egiltus there no blame was feen ;What Frrmian did, was murder to prevent,And fave their lives who both were innocent,Pandofta’s treaeh’r'ous, and his thoughts are vaio,And (hall ere long, without an heir remain,Unlefs the child that’s loit be found again.No fooner was the fcroll read, but the peoplegave a mighty (bout, to teflify their joy for the;queen’s being cleared of thefe crimes (he was (bjfalfely accufed of. This infallible decilion of theforacle, which the king’s own confcience knew to.,be a true one, fb confounded him, that for a good|while he could not hold up his head. But at ladJentreating the nobles to intercede for him to Bel-^laria, that (he fhould no more remember the in«yjunes (he had (utTered from him, tha% h:s future-carriage fhonld convince her how much he would*endeavour to make amends, bv not only being aloving hutband to her, but alib reconciling'himJfelt to Egifhis and Franion; he, thereupon free,ly declared what had paned between Franion andhirrifeIf, with refpeft to Egidus, tcUifying his grie||and (brrow for it. But (carcc had he made anen.l of (peaking, who*; one like a diflratted per-fon enters, and acquaints-the king and queen, thatthe young prince Garinter Was dead, which .wafno iboner heard by Bellarin, but vpprefled by two*con--■1 |IOF A GERMAN PRINCESS. Ijcontrary paffions, one of joy for being acquitted,and one of grief, for the death of her ion, the im¬mediately fell down and gave up the ghoft. TheledHihal accidents (o overcame the king, that he fell :into a fwoon, and lay three days together fpeech- llefr: So that nothing was heard, either in courtor city, but cries and lamentations. But whenthe king had recovered his fpeech agiin, the bit¬ter -cries and fevere reflexions he made upon him-felf, as being the caufe of both their deaths: Ah !facred Apollo, (aid he, I ana the author of thefemifehiefs, Bellaria is chafte and Egillus is inno¬cent : But why llaould the virtuous Bdlaria, aud |the innocent Garinter die, when it is jealous Pan-'dofta, nay, treacherous and cruel Pandoffa, inconarnitting an innocent babe to the naercilefswave?, that is the caufe of thefe misfortunes; it is1 alone, alas! that am the guilty perfon, and onlydeferve.to fuffer. And thereupon, was going tofacrifice taimfeif to atone for his crimes, but thePeers hindred him, and perfuaded him to be com¬forted, and preibrve himfeU for the good of his "kingdom. -Vith thcle and many other perfua- |fions, he began to be a little pacified, and give or-' 1ders for the funeral of his queen and fon, which |was performed with that Ibienan mourning, that ?iufficiently expreflfed the greatnefs of his forrowy ;cauling the following epitaph to be fairly engravenon the queen’s tomb:Within inis tomb the chafle Bellar ia lies,Beauty’s chief mirror, virtue’s richeft prize? -''Falfely accus’d, but by Apollo’s doom,So fully clear’d, that left mi.ruff no room *,Then whqfoe’er thou ar1 that lookejl here,To weep her lofs, let fall a brinifli tear.T'l . .But| £4 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESBut it is high time to look after that preciousj -depofitum, that cruel Pandofta committed to themercilefs waves, who, having been to/fed in herlittle boat, for two days together, upon the tem-I peftuous ocean, was driven on the (bore of Sicily,and taken up by a poor (hepherd, as he parted by:IIto feek fome flaeep that he was looking after, hethought that the pretty infant’s cry had been thebleating of the ftarved Cheep that he was lookingafter; he ei'pied the boat, and faw a little childready to die with hunger, wrapped up in a crimfon-velvet mantle, embroidered round with gold, witha neck-lace about its neck, which appeared as if ithad been made.of Bars. This neck-lace, compofedof divers forts of oriental gems, was that whichPartdotta gave to Bellaria when firrt: he Courted henThe Chepherd feeing her turn her head about, as ifto feek the pap and cry afreth, he thought that itwas fome diftrciTed infant, he took it in his arm?,and ip reading the mantle over it, out'dropt a purfeof gold: and, carrying th? infant to his wife, fheimagined it to be his bailsrd, till he (hewed her the* pearlVOF A GERMAN PRINCESS.pearl neck-lace and purfe of gold, which convincedher to the contrary, and, thereupon, (he told herhu(band, that hsaven had feen their want, and lentthem thefe thing? to teliev.e their poverty, andthey having no child, they were fully refolvfd tomake this child th<yf heir. The (hepherd went to jkeep his flock, ana his wife to look after her littlenurfery, but was fo wife as to wrap it in a plainwoolen blanket, keeping it neat and clean.When Fawnia had. attained to the age of feveftyears, the fhepberd bought the leafe of an adjoin¬ing farm, and a flock of (heep of his own, and,when Fawnia was tea years old, he fent her to .kgep them. They letting her know nothing, butthat Forms was her father, and his wife her mo¬ther, and the paid a dutiful regard to them. For¬ms, rifing by flow degrees, became a man ofwealth and credit in the country, and purchaied a !confiderable deal of land, which canled feveralfarmer’s fons to make their addrelles to Fawnia,who(e beauty began to diflidpfuifh ner from all the ,reft of the country; and, indeed, (he appeared ra¬ther to be fome heavenly nvmph, than the daugh¬ter of a (hepherd; and, when (he arrived at" theage of fixteen, (he was not the lead: elevated byall the praifes that were given her, but always de¬meaned herfelf as became a country maid, and thedaughter of a poor thepherd.It was about this time in which Fawnia Vvas ar¬rived to the bloom and perfefHon of beauty, that jDoraftus, a prince about twenty years old, had,been one day a hawking; and, on the ft mo. day,there was 2 meeting of all the fliephe rds’ d pun¬ters of Sicily, whether Fawnia was bidden, and(he attired herlelf in ~ heft robes, where theyfpent the day in fuch diveflions as were in ufe a-mong fnepherds. As Fawnia went home, (he defiredone '-E; :6 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESj.one of her companions to go along with her to feej5f her flocks were folded up. It was upon this day? that the prince Doraflus, in his return home, en-; countered thefe two (bepherdefles, upon which lie( made a fudden ftop, for he could not imagine thatTawnia could be any other than the goddeis Diana,i( as he thus lat gazing on her, he became a victimof lore, and he knew not what to make of it, butthought it was beft to avoid the Syreu that en¬chanted him, and fb letting ipurs to his horie bidthe fair Ihepherdefles adieu-, but for all the haftehe made, he left his heart behind him ; for herJoeauty fo affedled him, that he had neither eyesto fee, nor ears to hear, nor heart to love oughtf but Fawnia.Nor did Fawnia enjoy her freedom lince fhe hadj feen Doraftur, as (lie did before, for the idea of hisj princely mein, and his well-featured face were flillj before her': Ihe took leave of her companion, andI went home, feigned herlelf not w-ell, and fo gotI flraight to bed, where flie dreamed of prince Do-I raflus, and in fuch rettlefs (lumbers palled awayL the night. Next morning, getting very early up,p Hie went to keep her fheep, hoping that bufmefsI; would put off from her thought, a pailion which IheI durft not call love, coafidering her low condition.But prince Doraltus was far more impatient infj his pailion of love, for, neither comjiTnnynor mulicrj could allay it: and this w.ts affliftion to him, thatA Ihe, Who was the objeft of his love, was now fo■ defplcable in refpedf of him, that he could crave noji cotmoU 'n It, leal! it fliould be made known untofl his -father. But after he had been a while irrefo-| lute, he lecretly withdrew hhnfelf from court, andj refoived to.lee if he could ' 1 out Fawnia^ When| he had tried a great while :u vain, his wanderingj eyes difeovered Fawnia fitting a .one on the de¬li ^ feentIhV: . , * , ■OF A GERMAN PRINCESS. 17Tcent of an adjoining hill, making a garftnd offuch liomdy flowers as the Sicilian fields affordedher; and feeing her, unfeen came nearer to her,to take a iirift fnrvey of her perfeflions, which hefound fuch as, in her country garb, flained all thebeauties of his father’s court. Whilih thus he gaz¬ed on her peerlefs beauty, fair Fawnia chanced to !caff hgr eye slide, and lb efpied Doraltus^ whichgcve her cheeks fuch a vermilion dye, that madeher feem more beautiful -, and riling up immediate-1} fhe made fuch a model! courtel'y to the prir< ,as made him wonder how a country maid couldiearn that courtefy and genteel behaviour, and giv- ■ing her a princely bow, he, with a froiiing counte¬nance, drew nearer, and bdpoke her thus, ‘ Fair sjfheoherdels, a fhepherd’s life, muff lure be very 1fweet, that fuch a one ns you delights in it; thentell me fair one, what is it that is in a fhepherd’slife, that can yield ycu jo much plynfute r’To this fair Fawnia, with a blufliing face, re¬turned this anfwer: ‘ A fhepherd’s calling, Sir,is truly innocent, and the reliiit of that is lu.et 1content: here no ambition creeps into cur breads, jnor no difhoneft thoughts into our hearts.; we jreckon our clothes fine enough, if warm, and foed jfufficient, that fuffices nature: our only cure is tokeep our flocks from wolves, and pafs away our jhours with country longs; we take as much.de¬light ro. talk of Pan and rural pranks, as lovers do,to Ipeak of Venus and her wanton joys ; our only *toil is the fhifting of our folds, and looking to ourflocks the greateff pleafures; our greatefl wehlth isnot to covet any, and our chief honour is to fol¬low virtue.’Doraflus was fo taken with Fawnia’s ingeniousanfwer, that he was more confirmed ,in his affec¬tion, wifhing her birth were auiwerable to her partsasdf •!_ . j18 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESand beauty, for (he was a match for the greateftprince that fwayed a fceptre. But longing to heatmore of her difcourfe, he thus replies to what Ihehad faid.Dorajhts. I fee fair maid, you are plea fed withrural labours, becaufe you are ignorant of courtlypleafures.Fatvyia. .Sure, Sir, fuch ignorance becomes usbeft, for courtly pleafures fuit not our condition jmean though our pleafures are, yet they are inno¬cent, and itich become a fhcpherd’s calling beft.Dorajius I do believe, fair fhepherdefs, your aimsare no higher than a country life, becauie you arein 'ove with feme kind fhepherd.J'.'wpia. No, Sir, Sheherd’s cannot love, theyare fp fimple, neither can maids, becauie they aretoo young. w ■Dorajhts. Nay, Fawnia, thou art old enough tolove: and w-hatjfl ihould love thee? thou knoweftI can command, nay more, conllrain thee too.FFwnia. You may conflrain me indeed, but n<3tto love, for love conftraiued is force; I know themeannefs of my birth to well, that even a farmer’sion is too high for me; and^yet I have that regardto facred virtue, that I’ll die, before I’ll yield to aIking that {hall attempt to violate my honour.Dor,Jins. Then, fhepherdefs, you cannot loveDoraflus ! “ *Fawnia. Yes, when Doraflus can become afhepherd.Juil at that word the prince’s men came thither,who, finding that he had gone cirt alone, came to. w;-it on him, who, tho’ he thanked them not fortheir unwelcome dTigence, yet he went btrek withthem, and lets Fawnia and his heart behind him.Doraflus, who could think of nothing but Faw-nb, coujd not forget her laft words, ‘ That fhewouldOF A GERMAN PRINCESS. 19■would love Dorafhis when he became a fhepherd.’And, by the help of one of his favourite iervSnts,he got himfelf a fhepherd’s coat and crook, whichhe caufed to be laid in a thick grove adjoining tothe palace; to which place going with only his ler-vant, he there ^ilrobed himfelf of his princely ap¬parel, and put on his flrepherd’s attire, and takinghis Cheep-crook in his hand, he went to fetk outhis fair fhepherdefs, whom he was net long in find-ing. When he firft drew nigh t the place wherefhe kept her fheep, fhe did not know him, but'tookhim for a real fhepherd, whom at firft fight fireliked fb well, that fire thought this fhepherd wouldbe the only man to cure her of the love of Doraf-tus, becaufe he was much above her, and this (liemight both love and obtain ; but as he drew nearer,fire loon lound, that this flrepherd was no otherthan Doraftus himfdf, and, thereupon, role up andmade a very courtly courtefy, which the prince, .ilepping to her, and taking her in his arms, return¬ed with a kils, and defired her not to wonder athis difguile, fuice he took it only that lire mightmake good her word, and love him now as he wasbecome a flrephtrd ; and then protefiing the fincert-ty of his paflion, and how virtuous his defign wasin it, alledging he had honoured her more for theperfections of her mind, than the Beauties of he/body, though he never beheld a more fweet andlovely perlbn. He fo fully convinced the fair Eaw*nia of the truth of his protefiations, that file ac¬knowledged file loved him with an equal flame,put protefted, at the lame time, (he would neverdo any thing contrary to the laws of virtue andhonour, for a thoufand kingdoms : and then, aftermutual "Vows to be true to each other, they fealedtheir agreement with kifll's and embraces, and thenpatted for the time.But20 THE LIFE AND ADVENTURESBut the Prince, being more and more charmed-wni! Fawnia, had refblvcd to have none but her,began now to think how he would get out ot the-kii'gdom for'he well knew, hia father would ne¬ver iuft'er the matchk And, therefore, getting hisjewels and trtajure together, he, ..by the help otCapSoo, his trtmy lervaur, who had beenhim from his chiidhood, had got a fhip ready fortheir pallage. Fawnia being as willing as nc, toget out of the reach of FgilrusAnd,_ indeed, it was time for them to make thisptovifiai ; for, as fimple as the Ihepherds teetp,yet they took notice that the Prince came often toFawnia in dilguife; and ibme of them were fo kind,as to give notice'of it to old Porrus, a-nd Telling,they believed the Prince might peri'uade her to yieldto his embraces,, Porrus was put into such a damp,that he prclcnrly went to his wire, and told her allthe matter, /ind, after confuiting together, theyreibkred, that Porrus fhould take the jewels andnrck-iace, tha- they'found with Fawniaf and carrythem to the King, to litve tiiemfelves from blame,aiul to acqi::ant the King in what manner theyfound Fawnia. It was at this time that Capkio hadgot the ihip and all things ready, and the winditrving, Capino gave notice to the Prince to go onboard ; who went whtre Fawnia, had.made up herbundle, and appointed to meet him, and fo theyrode to the lea fide, where the mariners took themon board ; Capino was following himieif, and hap¬pened in his way to meet Ponus, who' was thengoing to the King, and Capino knowing it, was re-folved to divcrt- him from the purpofe, and fo told ,him, if he would go along with him, he would helphim to the if etch of the King, who was gone thatmorning, to air himitlf by the lea-hde; Porrus beingeafy of belief went with him, where when he came,Canino'.OF A GERMAN PRINCESS. 21Capino cauted the mariners to take him on hoard 4Porrus, finding, himfelf tin ibie to refifi, prayedCapino to be good to him. The Ihip immediatelyweighed, and ftood out for fea. Porrus was fur-priied when he law the Prince and Favvnia onboard, whom he hardly knew a.t firft, being in richatfire. The poor man entreated hard to be on ihore,but all in vain. King Kgifius milling the Prince,great fearch was made for him, but he was not tobe found. For, having a profperous gale, they de-figned for Italy, but the wind turning, crolled theirintentions, and, by a great tempefl-, blew them onthe (hore of Bohemia; at which the Prince wasmuch troubled, becaufe of the difference betweenthe two kingdoms, but liach was the violence ofthe tempeft, that they were glad to land any wh.-re.The port where they landed, belonged'to th chief-city of Bohemia ; the Prince was advifed by Capinoto change his name, and the mariners, being wellpaid, promifed to be private; and !b thetook the name of Meleagus, and landed with Faw-nii, at a little village, a mile diflant from the city,where having taken lodgings, they were providingfor t*eir marriage. The fame of Fawnia’s beautycame to the ears of Pandofta, who, as old as hewas, had a mind to a young beauty, and fo had agreat defire to fee Fawnia; and, hearing flhey keptmilters very private, caufed twelve of his guafrT tofeize them for fpies.Doraftus and Fawnia being brought before theKing, made their humble obeifmce to him, whobeing amazed at the beauty of lovely Fawnia, : roodlooking upon her without fpeaking, till he had aj-moft forgot himielf, and at laft recolIedKng him¬felf, with a very ftern countenance, he afked theirnames and country, and what bufinef? they badthere; Dorafius told him that his name was Mele-—1 ^agus.!f2 2 the liff and adventuresagus, a knight of Trapolonia, ;ind that the gentle¬woman he intended to marry, was born at Pudain Italy, from which he had juft come; and her ,friends not confenting to the marriage, he wasconveying her into Trapolonia, to have been mar¬ried there, but by itrefs of weather was drivenupon that coaft.Pandofta would not believe any thing of it, butreproached Doraftus with Healing Fawnia from herparents, which Doraftus denying with fome heat,was committed to prifon, and Fawnia ordered to bekept in the court, and allowed fuch civilities asbecame a itranger. Pandofta being greatly fmittenwith her, fent for her the next day to come to him,which fhe did accordingly. The king commending 1her beauty and parts, perfuaded her to leave Mcle-agus, and pface her afTeftions on him, and promifedto advance her to great dignity and honour: but fixerefufed him with the greateft contempt and fcors;he having tried all ways to allure her, both by pro-mifes and threateniugs, day after day, at lafl: fwcre,he ^vould compel her to love him, whether fhewould or not, but fne refolutely replied, He mightindeed take away her life, but fhould never depriveher of her honour and virtue.•But w\iilft Pandofta was thus courting Fawnia,Egiftus underftanding, by fome Sicilian merchantsin Bohemia, that his fon was made a prifonerthere, he fent ait honourable embafiage of diversof his noblemen, to entreat Pandofta to fendhome his foo, and put Capino, Porrus, and hisdaughter Fawnia to death, by whom the Princebad been deluded. Pandofta was well pleafedwith this embafly from king Egiftus, remember¬ing how he ^ronge<i him before, but was muchfurprifed to find, that Meleagus, whom he hadimprifoned, was the Prince Doraftus, whom he,therefore,U'1 A i' =^73 therefore, immediately teleafed and embraced verytindly, but, for all the love he bore to Fawnia,vas now refolved thatrihe fhould die. And, there-bre, caufed Capioo, Fawnla, and Porrps to bewrought before him. He upbraided Eawnia withoride and difdain, in refufing his love, and told»er, now he would be revenged on her. Whoooldly anfwered. That fmce Doraftus was reltored! io his liberty, and father’s favour, death would beil/ery eafy to her. And then caftiog a glance uponOoraflus, who was ready to die with grief, (heneld down her head. Capino, being told, that hewould have his eyes put out, and grind in a mill "ns long as he liv. d, feemed much dejefled. ' But,Porrus being told that he mufl: die, for prefuming:o marry his daughter to the fou oFa King, m..de■lithis reply. fbeeing, O King, and ye noble ambafTudors of[Sicily, I am condemned to die without a caufe,give me leave to difburden my confcience bef reimy death, I will tell you as much as I know, and.ifpeak no more than is true; though I am accufedbf Fawnia’s pride, and the dildained as a beggar,I now tell you, I am none of her faftier, neither is:lhe a beggar-child. I being a poor Shepherd, goingto look after a ftrayed ihetp, by the fea-fide, fawa little boat driven upon the fhore, in which Ifound an infant of about a week old, wrapped in amantle of cnmfon velvet, having a chain of pearlsirand jewels about her neck : This infant I took pity;upon, and bred up as my own daughter, and Inamed her Fawnia; what her parentage is I knownot, but here are the things I found with her. Letiime fee them, let me fee them, cried Pandoffa, b .ft-lily; which he had no fooner fhewn, but Pandofta,it knowing the neck-Lce, role up immediately, ran foI Fawnia, aad embracing her in his arms, cri£d our.I aLli'h ANIJ : IMULS, ^r. ]My daughter, t#y daughter! My dear Pawnia, 1am thy father; a«d this is the neck-lace I gave th’mother.Thefe tranfpofting words and aftions of tinKina, filled them all with wonder, efpecially Do-raftus and Fawnia; but the King, rthearfjng be:fore the ambaffadors, the whole matter, and ex-prdling a great deal of grief for what he haijdone, convinced them that this was rthe child hihad fent a floating to the fea ; at th^hame timerelating to^hem what the oracle of Apollo laid“ That he Arnold die without an heir, unlefs thtchild that was loft ftaould be found.’But to tell the univerfal joy that enfued on thi{dTcovery, is a talk too great for my pm: Yostanay be ftire Fawnia was glad to find fuch a royal1father, r.nH Dor alius was equally joyful he hadfii'h a Princefs in the per bn of Fawnia, whom.now he doubted not of having for his wife; For*tos- was made n Knight, for being thecaufeof aliithis jov. *nd, foon after, Pandofta, with hi|daughter Fawnia, and his intended fon-in-bw,prince Dora flits, went over to Sicily to Cgiftus,to whom this dTcovery gave an equal joy^ v hereDoraffus and Fawnia were married ith exceed¬ing great triumph, and afterwards reigned manyyears happily, both over jfohemia and Sicily.Thus we lee, the Providence of GODIs great to them who never heard his word :And (h - old not we, who fte and hear it ftill,Depend with pleafure on his facred vill.FINIS.G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON,[No. 18.3 Saltmarkbt, 1807.