CHEAP TRACTS, No. 12.(Second Edition.)THE WAY TOsXlflEaI4fOR,Poor Richard’s Maxims improved:TO WHICH IS -ADDED,THE WHISTLE,A TRUE STORY;AND,THE ADVANTAGES OF1 oDll UN K 1CIVDILIGENCE IS THE MOTHER OF GOOD LUCK.DUNFERMLINE IPRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN1828.* OF SCOTLANDTHE WAY TO WEALTH^ I §c.I have heard that nothing gives an author sogreat pleasure as to find his works respectfullyquoted by other- learned authors. This pleasureI have seldom enjoyed ; for though I havebeen, if I may say it without vanity, an eminentauthor (of Almanacks) annually, now a fullquarter of a century, my brother authors in thesame way (for what reason l know not) haveever been very sparing in their applauses ; andno other author has taken the least notice of me;so that, did not my writings produce me somesolid pudding, the great deficiency of praisewould have quite discouraged me.I concluded, at length, that the people were jthe best judges of my merit ; and besides, in myrambles, where I am not personally known, Ihave frequently heard one or other of my adagesrepeated with,“ As poor Richard says,”at the end on’t. This gave me some satisfaction ;5as it showed not only that my instructions wereregarded, but discovered likewise some respectfor my authority ; and I own, that, to encourage 'the practice of remembering and repeating thosewise sentences, I have sometimes quoted my¬self with great gravity.Judge, then, how much I must have beengratified by an accident I am going to relate toyou. I stopped my horse lately, where a greatnumber of people were collected at an Auction! of Merchant’s Goods. The hour of sale noti being come, they were conversing on the bad-1 ness of the times, and one of the companyi called to a plain clean old man, with white locks,1 “ Pray, father Abraham, what think you of theI tiirtes? Won’t these heavy taxes quite ruin the,i' country ? What would you advise us to do ?”1 Father Abraham stood up and replied,—‘ Jf| you’d have my advice, I’ll give it to you inii short : “ for a word to the wise is enough ;li and many words won’t fill a bushel,” as Poor1 Richard says. They joined in desiring him toI‘Speak his mind ; and gathering round him, heproceeded as follows:j J.M 1)!U5 i U*# Pi ) • fi . ‘-id. Bi'iFriends (says he) and neighbours, the taxesare indeed very heavy ; and if those laid on bythe government were the only ones we had topay, we might more easily discharge them :but we have many others, and much more; grevious to some of us. We are taxed twice;| ' •  -i—   —  as much by our idleness, three times as muchby our pride, and four times as much by ourfolly ; and from these taxes the commissionercannot ease or deliver us by allowing an abate¬ment. However, let us hearken to good advice,and something may be done for us ;“ God helps them that helps themselves,’’as poor Richard says in his Almanack. |It would be thought a hard government thatshould tax its people one-tenth part oi their time,to be employed in its service ; but idleness taxes!many of us much more, if we reckon all that isspent in absolute sloth, or doing of nothing,with thrt which is spent in idle employments, oramusements that amount to nothing.Sloth, by bringing on disease, absolutely shortens life.But dost thou love life ? then do not squandertime, for “ that’s the stuff life is made of,” aspoor Richard says. How much more than isnecessary do we spend in sleep! forgetting that“ the sleeping fox catches no poultry, and thatthere will be sleeping in the grave,” as poorRichard says. “ If time be of all things thmost precious, wasting time must be (as poorRichard says) the greatest prodigality sinceas he elsewhere tells, “ Lost time is never fountagain ; and what we will call “time enough” always proves little enough.r>Let us then up and be doing, and doing tothe purpose ; so by diligence shall we do morewith less perplexity. “ Sloth makes all thingsdifficult, but industry all easy,” as poor RichardI savs ; and, “ he that riseth late must trof allI day, and shaft scarce overtake his business atII night: while laziness travels so slowly' that|1| C? ' J| jwverty soon overtakes him,” as we read inj poor Richard; who adds, “Drive thy business ;let not that drive thee,” and|| ^,“ Early to bed, and early to rise,“.Make a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.”. j ■!So what signifies wishing and hoping for! better times ? We make these times better ifwe bestir ourselves. “ Industry needs noti wish,” as poor Richard says ; ami,f‘ He that lives upon hope, will die fasting.”“ 1 here are no gains without pains ; thenhelp hands, for I have no lands; or if I have,they are smartly taxed ; and, (as poor Richardlikewise observes,) He that hath a trade hath anestate ; and he that hath a calling hath an officeof profit and honour but then the trade musthe worked at, and the calling well followed, orneither the estate nor the office will enable us topay our taxes.If we are industrious, we shall never starve ;tor, as poor Richard says, At the workingI6man’s house hunger looks in, but dares notenter ; for, “ Industry pays debts, while despairinoreaseth them,” says poor Richard. Whattho’ you have found no treasure, nor hasany rich relation left you a legacy? “Diligenceis the mother of good luck,” as poor Richardsays ; and, “God gives all things to industry;Then plough deep while sluggnrd’s sleep,And you will have corn to sell and to keep,"says poor Dick.Work while it is called to-day; for youknow not how much you may be hindered to¬morrow ; which makes poor Richard say,“ One to-day is worth two to-morrows andfurther, “ Have you somewhat to do to-morrow,do it to-day.” If you were a servant, wouldyou not be ashamed that a good master shouldcatch you idle ? Are you then your ownmaster ? be ashamed to catch yourself idle, aspoor Dick says.”When there is so much to be done for your¬self, your family, your country, and your graciousking, be up by peep of day; “let not the sunlook down, and say,'Inglorious here he lies !"Handle your tools without mittens ; remember,that “ the cat in gloves catches no mice.” aspoor Richard says.7It is true there is much to he done, and per¬haps you are weak handed ; but stick to itsteadily, and you will see great effects; for“ constant dropping wears away stones, and bydiligence and patience the mouse ate into thecable : and light strokes fell great oaks,” aspoor Richard says in his Almanack, the yearI cannot just now remember.Methinks I hear some of you say, “ Must aman afford himself no leisure?”—I will tell thee,my friend, what poor Richard says : “ Employthy time well, if thou meanest t© gain leisure ;and since thou art not sure of a minute, thrownot away an hour.” Leisure is time for doingsomething useful ; this leisure the diligent manwill obtain, but the lazy man never ; so that, aspoor Richard says, “ A life of leisure and a lifeof laziness are two things.”Do you imagine that sloth will afford you morecomfort than labour? No; for, as poor Richardsays, “ Troubles spring from idleness, andgrievous toil from needless ease : Many withoutlabour would live by their own wits only : butthey break for want of stock Whereas indus¬try gives comfort, and plenty, and respect. “Flypleasures, and they’ll follow you ; the diligentspinner has a large shift; and now I have alarge shift; and, now I have a sheep and a cow,every body bids me good morrow ; all which iswell said by poor Richard.”8Bat, with oar inclusr.ry, we mast like wise kesteady, settled, and careful, «uid oversee our ownaffairs with our own eyes, and never trust toomuch to others t for, as poor Richard says,■ “ I never saw an oft-removed tree,Nor yet an oft-removed family,That throve so well as those that settled be,”And again “ Three removes are as had as afire;” and again, “ Keep thy shop, and thy shopwill keep thee and again, “ If you wouldhave business done, go; if not, send.” Andagain," He that by the plough would thrive.Himself must either hold or drive."And again, “ The eye of a master will domore work than both his bands; and again,“ Want of care does us more damage than wantof knowledge; and again, “ Not to overseeworkmen, is to leave them your purse ojK*n.”Trusting too much to others’ care is the ruinof many : for, as the almanack says, “ In theaffairs of the world, men are saved not by faith,but by the want of itbut a maids own care isprofitable; for, saith poor Dick, “ Learning isto the studious, and riches to the careful, as wellas power to the bold, and heaven to the virtuous.”And further, “ If you would have a faithfulservant, and one that you like, serve yourself.”9Ami again, he adviseth to eircumsj>ection andi care, even in the smallest matters; because,■; sometimes, “ A little neglect may breed greatmischief; adding, “ For want of a nail the shoewas last; for want of a shoe the horse was lost;and for want of a horse the rider was lostbeing overtaken and slain by the enemy, all forwant of care about a horse-shoe nail.So much for industry, my friends, and attentionto one's own business; but to these we must addfrugality, if we would make our industry morecertainly successful.A man, may, if he knows not how to save ashe gets, “ keep his nose all his life to the grind¬stone, and die not worth a groat at last,” “ Afat kitchen makes a lean will,” as poor Richardsays; and,“ Many estates are spent in tlie getting ;Since women forsook spinning and knitting.And men for punch, forsook hewing Und splitting."“If you would be wealthy, (says be, ioanother almanack,) think of saving, as well asof getting ; The Indians have not made Spainvi«h, because her outgoes are greater titan herincomes.”Away, then, with your expensive follies, andyou will not have much cause to complain ofhard times, heavy taxes, and chargeable fami¬lies ; for, as poor Richard says,10Women ami wine, game and deceit,Make the wealth small, and the wants great.”And further, “ What manjains one vice wouldbring up two children.” \ou may think, per¬haps, that a little punch, now and then, diet alittle more costly, clothes a little finer, and a little.entertainment now and then, can be no greatmatter ; but remember what poor Richard says,“ Many a little makes a meikle ; and further,“ Beware of little expenses ; a small leak willsink a great ship ; and again, “ Who daintieslove, shall beggars prove ; and moreover,“ Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them.”“ Here you are all got together at this sale offineries and nick-nacks. You call them GOODS;but, if you do not take care, they will proveEVILS to some of you. You expect they willbe sold cheap, and perhaps they may, for lessthan they cost; but, if you have no occasion forthem, they must be dear to you. Rememberwhat poor Richard says, “ buy what thou hastno need of, and ere long thou shalt sell thynecessaries.” And again, “ at a great penny¬worth pause a while.” He means, that per¬haps the cheapness is apparent only, and not real;or the bargain, by straitening thee in thy business,may do thee more harm than good. For inanother place he says,“ Many have been ruined by buying goodpenny-worths.”11Again, poor Richard says, “ It is foolish tolay out money in a purchase of repentance j”i and yet this folly is practised every day at auc-i tions, for want of minding the almanack. “Wisemen (as poor Dick says) learn by others harms,I fools scarcely by their own.” Many a one, forthe sake of finery on the back, have gone with ahungry belly and half starved their families.“ Silks and satins, scarlet and velvets, (asj poor Richard says) put out the kitchen fire.”These are not the necessaries of life, they cani] scarcely be called the conveniences; and yet,only because they look pretty, how many wantIt to have them ? The artificial wants of mankindti thus become more numerous than the natural ;ill and, as poor Dick says, “For one poor person,: there are a hundred indigent.”By these and other extravagancies, the genteelsi are reduced to poverty, and forced to borrow oft those whom they formerly despised, but who,I through industry and frugality, have mantainedt their standing ; in which case it appears plainly,I that “ a ploughman on his legs is higher than aI gentleman on his knees,” as poor Richard says,Perhaps they have had a small estate left them,which they knew not the getting of; they think,“ it is day, and will never be night;” that a littleto be spent out of so much is not worth minding:A child and a fool (as poor Richard says) ima¬gine twenty shillings and twenty years can neverbe spent; but al ft'ays taking out of the meal-tub,and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom;’’I12then, as poor Dick says, “ When the well is dry,they know the worth of water,” But this theymight have known before, if they had taken hisadvice,“ If you would know the value of money,and try to borrow some; for he that goes a bor¬rowing goes a sorrowing,” as poor Richardsays ; and indeed so does he that lends to suchpeople, when he goes to get it in again.Poor Dick further advises, and says,“ Fon 1 pride of dress is sure a very curse,Eie fancy you consult, consult your purse.”And again, “ prid'j is as loud a beggar as want,and a great deal more saucy.” When you have,bought one fine thing, you must buy ten more,that, your appearance may be all of a piece; hutpoor Dick says, “it is easier to suppress thefirst desire than to satisfy all that follow it ;”ami it is as truly folly for the poor to ape the rich,as the frog to swell, in order to.equal the ox.“ Vessels large may venture more.But little boats should keep near shore.’’’Tis, however, a folly soon punished; for, “Pridethat dines on vanity, sups on contempt,” as poorRichard says. And in another place,<f Pride breakfasted with Plenty,Dined with Poverty,And supped with Inj'amy"J3And, after alJ, of what use is this pride of ap-Jpearance, for which so much is risked, so muchis suffered ? It cannot promote health, nor easeIpain ; it makes no increase of merit in the per*son : it creates envy : it hastens misfortune.144 What is a butterfly ? at bestHe’s but a caterpillar drest;The gaudy fop’s his picture just,”as poor Richard says.But what madness must it be to run in debtfor these superfluities ! We are offered by theterms of this sale, six months credit; and thatperhaps, has induced some of us to attend it,because we cannot spare the ready money, andhope now to be fine without it. But ah ' thinkwhat you do when you run in debt ; you giveto another power over your liberty. Il you can¬not pay at die time, you will be ashamed to seeyour creditor, you will be in fear when youspeak to him, you will make poor, pitiful,sneaking excuses, and, by degrees, come to loseyour veracity, and sink into base, downrightlying ; for, as poor Richard says, “ the secondvice is lying; the first is running in debt.”And again, to the same purpose, lying ridesupon debt’s back whereas a free horn Britonought not to be ashamed nor afraid to see orspeak to any man living. But poverty oftendeprives a man of all spirit and viitue. “It ishard for an empty bag to stand upright,” as poorRichard truly says.7 -   14What would you think of that prince, or ofthat government, who should issue an edict, for-biddi ng you to dress like a gentleman or gentle¬woman, on pain of imprisonment or servitude?Would you not say, that you were free, have aright to dress as you please, and that such anedict would be a breach of your privileges, andsuch a government tyrannical ? And yet youare about to put yourself under that tyranny,when you run in debt for such dress ! Yourcreditor has authority, at his pleasure, to depriveyou of your liberty, by confining you in a jailfor life, or by selling you for a servant, if youshould not be able to pay him.When you have got your bargain, you may,perhaps, thiiik little of payment: But “Creditors(poor Richard tells us,) have better memoriesthan debtors and, in another place, he says,Creditors are a superstitious set, great observersof set days and times,The day comes round before you are aware,and tlie demand is made before you are preparedto satisfy it ; or, if you bear your debt in mind,the term which at first seemed so long, will, asit lessens, appear extremely short ; time willseem to have added wings to his heels as wellas his shoulders.“Those have a short Lent, (saith poorRichard,) who owe money to be paid at Easter.”Then since, as he says, “ The borrower is aslave to the lender, and the debtor to the creditor,”15disdain the chain, preserve your freedom, andmantain your independence;Be industrious and free, be frugal and free,At present perhaps, you may think yourselvesin thriving circumstances, and that you can'bear a little extravagance without injury : but“ For age and want save what you may,No morning sun lasts a whole day,”; as poor Richard says. Gain may be temporaryi| and uncertain ; but, ever while you live, expenseI is constant and certain ; and, it is easier to buildi two chimneys, than to keep one in fuel,” as poor, Richard says. So, “ rather go to bed supper¬less than rise in debt.”“ Get what you can, and what you get, hold,’Tis the stone that will turn all your lead into gold.”as poor Richard says. And when you have gotthe philosopher’s stone, sure you will no longercomplain of bad times, or the difficulty of payingtaxes.This doctrine, my friends, is reason and wis¬dom ; but, after all, do not depend too muchupon your own industry, and frugality, andprudence, though excellent things; for they mayall be blasted, without the blessing of heaven ;and therefore ask that blessing humbly, and benot uncharitable to those that at present seem towant it, but comfort and help them. RememberJob suffered, and was afterwards prosperous.10And now to conclude, “ Experience keeps adear school ; but fools will learn in no other,and scarce in that; forr it is true, “ we maygive advice, but we cannot give conduct,” aspoor Richard savs. However, remember this,“ 1 hey that will not be counselled cannot behelped; as poor Richard says; and further, that“ if yeu will not hear reason, she will rap your knuckles.”Thus the old gentleman ended his harangue.The people heard it, and approved the doctrine ;and immediately practised the contrary, just asit it had been a common sermon ; for the auc¬tion opened, and they began to buy extravagantly,notwithstanding all his cautious, and their ownfear of taxes.I found the good man had thoroughly studiedmy almanacks, and digested all I had dropt onthose topics during the course of twenty-fiveyears. The frequent mention he made of memust have tired any one else ; hut my vanitywas vvondei fully delighted with it, though I wasconscious, that not a tenth part of the wisdomwas my own, which he ascribed to me, butrather the gleanings that I had made of the senseof all ages and nations. However, I resolvedto he the better for the echo of it : and, thoughf had at first determined to buy stuff for a newcoat, I went away, resolwd to wear my old onea little longer. Reader, if thou wilt do thesame, thy profit will be as great as mine.I am, as ever, thine to serve thee,RICHARD SAUNDERS,17T H E W H I S L E ;A THUS STOHY•[k|,| . . '.s. . : . , .IP' ''1 When I was a clnid at sown vaai K aid, myfriends on a holiday, filled my poekets with'1 coppers. I went directly to a shop where they11 sold toys for children ; and being- charmed withli the sound of a whistle that 1 met by the way inl the hands of another bov, I voluntary oiieredI him all my money for it. I then came home,l! and went whistling- all over the house, muchj| pleased with my whistle, but disturbing all thei family. My brothers, and sisters, and cousins,jij understanding the bargain I had made, told meI I had given four times as much for it as it wasi worth. This put me in mind what good thingsI might have bought with the rest of the money;and they laughed at me so much for my follythat I cried with vexation ; and the reflectiongave me more chagrin than the whistle gave mepleasure.This, however, was afterwards of use to me,the impression continuing on my mind ; so thatoften when I was tempted to buy some unneces¬sary thing, 1 said to myself, Don’t give too muchfor the whistle ; and so I saved my money.ISAs I grew up, came into the world, and ob'served the actions of men, I thought I me'with many, very many, who gave too much foi ;the whistle.: 1'When I saw any one too ambitious of courtfavours, sacrificing his time in attendance orlevees, his repose, his liberty, his virtue, andperhaps his friends, to attain it, I have said tomyself. This man gives too much for his whistle.When I saw another fond of popularity, con¬stantly employing himself in political bustles, ■neglecting his own affairs, and ruining them bythat neglect: He pays, indeed, says I, too muchfor his whistle.If I khew a miser, who gave up every kindof comfortable living, all the pleasure of doinggood to others, all the esteem of his fellow-citizens, and the joys of benevolent friendship,for the sake of accumulating wealth : Poorman, says I, you do indeed pay too much foryour whistle.When I meet a man of pleasure, sacrificingevery laudable improvement of the mind, or ofhis fortune to mere torporeal sensations ;Mistaken man, says I, you are providing painfor yourself instead of pleasure j you give toomuch for your whistle.If I see one fond of fine clothes, fine furniture,fine equipages, all above his fortune, for whichI he contracts debts, and ends his career in prison:i Alas ! says I, he has paid dear, very dear forrl his whistle.When I see a beautiful Sweet tempered girlmarried to an ill-natured husband : What a pityit is, says I, that she has paid so much for an whistle!In short, I conceived that great part of the{miseries of mankind were brought upou themby the false estimates they had made of thevalue of things, and by their giving too much! for their whistle.THE ADVANTAGES OF DRUNKENNESS.“ Oh ! that men should put ah enemy into their mouths to stealaway their brains.” ShakspearinAll the enemies on the earth do not destroy so many of thehuman race, nor alienate so much properly as drunkenness.”Lord Bacon.If you wish to be always thirsty, be adrunkard; for the oftner and more you drink,the oftner and more thirsty you will be.If you seek to prevent your friends fromraising you in the world, be a drunkard ; forthat will defeat all their efforts.If you would eifrctunlly connfptact your ownattempts to do well, !>e a drunkard ; and youwill not He disappointed.If yon wash to repel the endeavours of thewhole human, race to raise you to elmraefer,credit, and prosperity, He a drunkard ; and youwill assuredly triumph.If you are determined to he poor, he a drun¬kard; and you will soon l»e ragged and pennvless.If you would wish to starve your family, Hea drunkard ; for that will consume the means oftheir support.If you would be spunged on by knaves, be adrunkard ; and that will make their task .easy.If you wish to He robbed, he a drunkard; whichwill enable the thief to do it with more safety.If you wish to blunt your senses, be'a drunkard;and you will soon he more stupid than an ass.If you would become a fool, be a drunkard ;and you will soon lose your understanding.If yon wish to incapacitate yourself for rationaliutereonrse, be a drunkard ; for that will renderyou wholly unfit for it.21If you wish all your prospects in life to hei clouded, be u drunkard ; and they will be dark: enough.Ifyou would destroy your body, be a drunkard jas drunkenness is the mother of disease.If you mean to ruin your soul, be a drunkard;l that you may be excluded from heaven.If you are resolved on suicide, be a drunkard jthat being a sure mode of destruction.If you would expose both your tolly and|j| secrets, be a drunkard ; and they will soon run- out while the liquor runs in.If you are plagued with great bodily strength,he a drunkard; and it will soon be subdued byso powerful an antagonist.If you would get rid of your money withoutknowing how, be a drunkard; and it will vanishinsensibly.If you would have no other resource whenpast labour but a work-house, be a drunkard ;and you will be unable to provide any.Ifyou are determined to expel all domesticharmony from your house, be a drunkard ; anddiscord with all her train, will soon enter.i22If you would be always under strong- suspicion,be a drunkard ; for, little as you think it, allagree that those who steal from themselves andfamilies will rob others. 1If you would be reduced to the necessity ofshunning your creditors, be a drunkard ; andyou will soon have reason to prefer the bye-pathsto the public streets.If you like the amusements cf a court of con-1'science, be a drunkard ; and you may be often Igratified.If you would be a dead weight to the community,and “cumber the ground,” be a drunkard ; forthat will render you houseless, helpless, burden¬some and expensive.If you would be a nuisance, be a drunkard ;for the reproach of a drunkard is like that of adunghill.If you would be odious to your family andfriends, be a drunkard ; and you will soon bemore than disagreeable.If you would be a pest to society, be a drun¬kard ; and you will be avoided as infectious.If you dread reformation of your faults, be adrunkard; and you will be impervious to alladmonition.23If you would smash windows, break the peace,get your bones broken, tumble under carts andhorses, and be locked up in watch-houses, be adrunkard ; and it will be strange if you do not! succeed.Finally, if you are determined to be utterly' destroyed, in estate, body, and soul, be a drun-1 kard •, and you will soon know that it is impos-! sible to adopt a more effectual means to accom¬plish your end.Drunkenness expels reason—drowns the: memory—defaces beauty—diminishes strength—inflames the blood—causes internal, external,i and incurable wounds—is a witch to the senses,ii a devil to the soul, a thief to the purse—-the'I beggar’s companion, a wife’s wo, and children’sH sorrow—makes a strong man weak, and a wiseU man a fool. He is worse than a beast, and is a| self-murderer, who drinks to others good health,si and robs himself of his own.If .:t-. >tFl u). > •- 3^ « :What is it that saps the morals of youth—killsthe germ of generous ambition—desolates thel domestic hearth—renders families fatherless—digs dishonoured graves ?—Drunkenness !What makes a man shunned by the relativeswho loved him—contemned by the contempora¬ries who outstripped him—reviled by the verywretches who betrayed him?—Drunkenness!1 What fills our asylums with lunatics—our pondsand rivers with suicides—our jails with thieves‘24and murderers—our streets with prostitution ?The same omnipotent Vice! He, who, byprecept, whether spoken or written, shall succeedin rendering Drunkenness detestable, andSobriety an inviolated virtue throughout thej!land, will confer on the humbler classes ofjsociety—a boon beyond all price.No vices are so incurable as those in which |men are apt to glory. One would wonder how*drunkenness should have the good fortune to be*of this numb r. Anacharsis, being invited toaimatch of drinking at Corinth, demanded theprize verydmmourously, because he was drunkbefore any of the rest of the company ; for, sayshe, when we run a race, he who arrives at thegoal first is entitled to the reward ; On thecontrary, in this thirsty generation, the honourfalls upon him who carries off the greatest quan¬tity of liquor, and knocks down the rest of thecompany. But however highly this tribe ofpeople may think of themselves, a drunken manis a greater monster than any that is to be found |among all the creatures which God hath made : jas indeed there is no character which appears!more despicable and deformed, in the eyes of all Ireasonable persons, than that of a drunkard. 1Bonosus, one of our own countrymen, who was Iaddicted to this vice, having set up for a sharein the Roman empire, and bring defeated in agreat battle, hanged himself. When he was seenby the army, in this melancholy situation, not¬withstanding he had behaved himself verybravely, the common jest was, that the thingythey saw hanging before them upon the tree,was not a man, but a bott’e;