THEMAVIS,A CHOICECOLLECTIONOF CELEBRATEDSONGS, 'SCOTCH, ENGLISH, & IRISH.jf alfcirfc;PRINTED & BOLD BY T. JOHNSTON;1819.THEM A VI s;O   O ■ oTHE MARINER’S WIFE,But.ere you furs the news is true?And are you fure^e’s wed ?Is this a time to think o’ wait?Yt; jades, fling by your wheel.There’s nae luck about the boufe,there’s nae luck at a’ ;Tbete’s nae luck about the houfe,When our good man’s awa’.Is this t;me to think of wark,when Colin’s at the door ?Kex me my cloak, I’ll down the <juay,and fee hiin come afoore.There s nae luck, &e.Rife up. and make a dean fire-Cdr,put on the muckle pat;Ci’e little Kate her cotton g^WOjand J-ck his Sunday’s coat.A i4Male* their flioon as black as flies;their /lockings white as fnaw ;’Tis a', to pleafure cur goodniatT)he likes Wfce them bra\V.There are twa hens into the crib,have fed this month and meir,5Iak‘ t afte. ahd thraw their necks abou^tliat Colin weel may fare.Erh'g down to me my bigontt,my 3i(hop-fattin gown,/.ad then gae tell the Bailie’s wifethat Colin’s come to town.ily Turkey fTppcrs I’ll put on,my (lockings pearl blue,And a’ to pleafure our goodman,For he’s batth leal and true..Sac fwc;t his voice, fae fmooth his tongut,his breath’s like cauler air,His very tread ha; ntuuc in’t,as he comes up the (lair.And will 1 fee his face again ?And will I hear him (peak ?I’m downright dizzy with the joy lIn troth I’m like to greet.Tfcere’i nae lack, &o.• sae luck about the HOUSE,WHEN ovs GoODWIFs’s AWA’.You fing oif your goodman frae hame,bu; whiles they re bed awa’,And tho* the good wife day at hamc,John docs'not toil for a’.There’* nae luck about the houffjthere's nae luck at a\There’a nae luck about the l.oufewhen our goodwife « awa’.I?or there was nae luck about ,my houfe,and little for my watne-,There was nae luck about my houfewhen Maggy gaed tfae hamc.There’s tiae luck, &c.•-Far fird the bairns raife fra# their be4jand fpr a piece did ca*,Then how could . attend my work,who had to anfwcr a’ ?Their hands and faces were to wafhjand coaties to put omV.'hen erei v dud lay here ai d thtrf,which vexed -honed John.A$He made the pottage wanting fa\the kail fing’d in the pot;The cutties lay under his feet,and cogs they ftem’d to rot.The ben and birds went to the fields,the glede (he wliipt up twa :The cow, wanting her chaff and ftraw,flood routing thro’ the wa’.The bairns fought upon the floor,and on the fire did fa’;Which vex’d the heart of honefl John,when Maggy was awa‘.Wi'h bitten fi gers and cutted thurpbe,and fcreictis which pierc’d the fkies,W* ’C i drove his patience to an end,w (h d death to clofe their eyes.Then went to pleafe them with a fcon»,but on! he burnt it black!JRa to the well with twa new canas,but none of them came back.The hens went to their neighbour’* hou/^and there th«*v laid their eggs.When Ample John reprov’d tfteni for’*,be broke poor chufkics legs.He Tittle thought of Maggy’s toi^a< iie vras by the fire,But when he got a trial o't,he foon began to tire.Firft when he got the tafk in hand}he thought all would go right.But O he little wages had,on Saturday at night.He had no gain from wheel or reel,nor yarn had he to fell jHe wilh’d for Maggy name again,being out of money and mt&l.The de’il gaed e’er Joclc Wabfter,his lofs he could net tell;But when he wanted Maggy’s help,he did nae good himfel.-Another want I do not name,ail night he got no cafe,But tuinb *d. grumbl'd in his bed,a-fighting wi' the flaes.WiQiing fgr Maggy’s mucklejiips,whereov the ftacs miglit Uaft,And tbi to be goodwife again, %he fwore it was nae jefl.Tntre’s r.ae luck, &«.8The Wayward Wife. 'Alas ! my fon, you little knowThe forrows that froiri wedock flow ;Farewel to every day of cafe,When you have got a wife to pleafe.Sac bids you yet, and bide you yet.Ye little ken what’s to betide you yet;Th* half of that will gain ye yst,If a wayward wife obtain ye yet.You're experience is but final].As yet you’ve met with little thrall:The black cow on your feet ne’er trode.Which gars you flng along the road.Sae bide you yet. &c.«Sometimes the rock, fonietimes the reel.Or fume piece of the fpinning-wheel,She will drive at y'« with good-will,. And then (he 11 fend you to the d< iJWhen I, like you, was young and ftcc,I valu’d not the proudeft £bc;Like you ! vainly boafled then,That men alone we born to reign.Great Hercules and Sampfon too,Were Wronger men than ! or you.Yet Ih^y were baffliid by tncii dean,And fell, the diftaif and the ibeert.Stout gates of brafs, and well-built wa!T*tAre proof’gainft fwords and cannon-balls;Uut nought is found by fea or land,That can a frayward wife wilhlland*Sac bide you yet, See. o •Vf ' ‘ \ - ! • !/. i ,v;.' .* ' *THE ANSWER.Cts* 1 had a wee houfe, and a canty wee lirfjA bonny wes wifi* to praife and admire,A b. uny wes yardie a£ide a wee burn,Farcwtl to the bocies that yammer and mourijiI’ll bids me yet, and I’ll bide me yet,I little ken what may betide roe yet;Some bonny wee body may ba my lot.And I’ll ay be canty wi thinking o’t."When I gang a-field, and come hamc at e’en,Ml get my wee wide fou neat ard fou clean.And a bonny wco bairnic upon her knee.That will cry Papa or Daddy to me.I’ll bide me yet, &c.And if there fttould happen ercr to beA diff’rencc a-tween my wee wide and me.In hearty good humour, altho’ flic be teas’d.I’ll kifs her, and clap her, until flic be plaas’d*10I'he Wedding Day.One night, as poor Colin lay mu£ng on bed.With a heart full of love, and a vaporous head*To wing the dull hours, and liis forrows aday*How f-wetly he fung of his weddtng-day.0 svhat would l give for a wedding-day!P wnat would I give for a wedd:ng-day!,Wealth and ambithut I’d lofe you away,With ‘all you can boa ft for a wedding-day.' • IIShould the Heavens b'd me afk, and with free*dom implore.On; blifi for the atv.unh I fufT;r'd before,F6r dear Jtff., al >ne would 5 pray,And graip my w: ole With on my wedding-day!BLft be the apbr aen of my wtddiug-day !1 il lihil my dear nymph on my wedding-day;Earth fm’ilcs mr r e c!ia-.ming, & nature moic gay, 4And happintfk dawns on my wedding-day. ^1 ,r' '> ' ■ " *' ^t Luna, who equally fov r<ign prefidesf, O’er hearts of tfu ladies, and flow of rue tides,Unnappily cli'anges—lias’changed liei mind,.O Fate! cou’d a wife prove e’er ccmftaiU or kind?Why was I born to a wedding day ?Curft, ever cnrft be my weading-day :Colin, poor Colin, has cltattged his lay,And dates all bis plaguy from his wedding-day*it'Batchelors, be warn’d’by the fhepherd’s ciftref'-,Be taught by your freedom to meafure %our fciifs;N«r fall to the witchcraft of beauty a prey,'And blaft all your hopes on a wedaing-day.Horns is the gift ef a wedding-day !Wait and a fcold crowns a w»dding-day !Happy’s the gallant has a wife while he majr,Or obtains a good one on his wedding-day-THE BONNY LAD.'! I’ll Cng of my lover all night and all day,Ha’s ver good-natur’d. and frolic, and gay ;His voice is as fweat as the nightingale's lay, ,!i And w«ll on his bagp’pe my Ihepberdcwi play.And a bonny young lad is my Joeky,And a bonny young lad is my Jocky.He-fays that he loves me, I'm witty and fair,And praifcr. mv eyes, my lips, ar.d my hair;i-{ Rafe, violet, nor lily, with mt can compa«s:I If this be to flatter, ’tis pretty, I fwear.And a bonny. &c.He kneerd at my feet, and with many a figh,He cry’d, O my dear, will y mi never comply?If you mean to deftroy me, way do it. I’ll die#1 trembled all over and anfwti’dj Not f.And a bonny, &c.12Around th« tail Mary-pole h« dance* To nest,And fonnets of love th« dear boy can repeat:Ha’s c >nftant. he's valiant, he’s wife and difereet,His look* are fo kind and hi* kifits fo fvrect.And a bonny, &c.At eve’, when the fun finks repos’d in the wefi,And Mary «tuneful caorift> all ikim to their nafi,When I m«et on the Rreen the man I love beft,My heart i« juft ready to burft in my breaft.And a bonny, &fc.But fee how the meadows are moiftsn’d with dew,Then come, my dear (hepherd, I wait but for you;Let us lire for each other, both conftant and 'rue,Andtaftethefweet raptures no monarch e’er knew.A id a bonny young lad is my Jocfcy,And a bonny young lad is my jocky.—X—RALPH OF THE MILL.A* Hebe was. tending her flieep t’other day,where the warblers whiftle and fing,'A rural voung fwain cams tripping that way,as brifle and as blithe a* a king.The youth was a ftrartger to trouble and carJjcontentment e er guided his will;Yet ever re . a<dtd the fmiles of the fair,tho' always bred tip in a mill.?3Lovd fiole in his brcefj at the fight of the maid,for he could not her chainn but adore ;; And if thou art cruei, dear Hebe, he faid,1 fureiy fliall 1 ve thee the more.I Such tenderntf melted her into furprife(for Hebe was never ur.kind),; And all of a hidden love glow’d in her eyes,which fpuke the didlatcs cf her miiid.C They fat themfelves down at the foot of a hill,and chatted together fo free,t1 Till Ralph, the yaung Twain, made figns tothe mill,whilft clafping the nymph on his knee ;1 And thus, in a tranfport the miller rej lied,Thy charm's, dearefl gtjl, ere divine!r Than prels’d her fweet lip's, and with rapturehe cry’d,ij O Hebe! confent to.be mine !q She liflen’d attentive to all his requeft,and freely eomply’d to his will ;And nov/, to her lolace, flic’s married and bltftwith honefl young Ralph of the mill.I Peace f 11 ’Ws rheir l,;.itfl-.ps wheret'er they go,in bl f all their i.ours they are,fpcnt:; But, leaders of fafhi.jn. I’d lia»e you to know,, their happtuefs flow? from conisni.B*4’ ‘THE,»•. «r- | - /EW!E WI’ THE CROOKED HORN.0 were I able to rehearfejMy ewie’s praife iii proper verie,I’d found it out as loud and fierceAs ever piper s drone cou’d blaw.The evrie wi’ the ernoked horn.Well deferv’d baith parfc and cornjSic a ewie ne’er was born,Hereabout or far awa\1 neither needed tar nor keeTo mark her upo r ip or heel,Hir crooked horn it did a* weef,To ken her by amo >r.em a’.Tfie evrit. &c.She never threaten’d feab nor rot.But keeped av her am joo trot.Baith to the fauld and to the cot.Was never fweer to lead or ca*.The ewiu &cNae cauld uor hunger ever dan>t her;No win . nor rain c-u'd ever wraug her,For une* !he iav a w-'tk an’ langerAneath a dreary wreata of fnaw.The ewie, £:c.When ether ewe- they lap the dyfce£And hie t!:e kail for a the tyke.My ewie never play’d the like,Bm tees’d about the barh-yard wa’*The ewie, &c.A better nor a thriftier beadNac honed man cou’c.weel ba’ wift,For, bonny thing, ihe never miftTo hae ilk yeai a lamb or twa.The ewie, &c.The firft fhe had 1 gae to JcckyTo bo to him a kind o’ dock,And now the laddie has a fleekOf mair nor thirty head to caVThe ewie, &c^The ntid I gae to Jear), and nowThe bairn’s fee braw, her fauld fae fu’.That lads fae thick come here to woo.They’re fain to deep on hay or draw.The ewie, &c.* *1 looked ay at e’en for her,For fear the fumart might devour her;Or feme mifhanter nvgnt devour her.If the beadic, bade awa\The ewie, &c.16Yet Monday laft, for a’ my keeping,I cahria Ipjeafeit witnout greeting,A villain came when I was ikepittg,And ftaw my ewlc, hsrn and a’.The ewis, &e.I fotight her fair upon the morn,And down bsneat'i a bufs of thornI got my ewlc’s crooked horn,Bjt, ah ! my cwie v/a* awa’. -The ewie, &c.But an' I had the Ijwn that did it,i’vc fworn and harm’d, as weli as laid it,Tho’ a’ the war Id Ihou’d jo t bid it,I molt’d gic his neck a thraw.Tho ewia, &c.f never met wi’ fic a turnAv this, fiace ever l was born,My ewie wi’ the crocked horn.Pair ally ewie, flown awa’.a'he ewie, &c,O had Che died of crook or canid.As ewkt die whcif they grow auld.It wtdna been, by morry fat.Id,So lair a heart to ahe o’s a’.The eyrie,*7For a’ the claith that we ha’e w'crttjFrae her and hers fae aften (boro.The iofs of her ’.ve coll’d ha'e born,Had fair llrae death ta’en her aw&j*The «wie, &c.But this poor thing to lofe her lif®Aneath a greedy villain’s knife,I’m really fear’d that our goodwifeWill never win aboon’t ava’.The ev*ie, &c.t) all ye bards aneath Kinghorn,Call up your mufes, let them moumjpur ewie wi’ the crooked horn1$ flown frae us, and fell’d and aVThe ewie, &c.A MAN TO MY MIND.Sires wedlock’s in vogue. & fiale virgins defpis't£To ail batchelors, greeting, thefc lines arepremis'd:I‘m a maid that w^ aid marry, oh! could 1 but finelyI care not for for mic—a man to my mind.A man to me mind,A mail to my mind,l care not for foi tune—a man to my njind.B3Not t’iis fair-ffatjur'-d fop.fondoffafh'on&drcfsjlbs ‘Squire, lliat can relifli no joys bnt the ■ 'chacc; 'Not.'the free-thinking rake, whom no mortals *‘can bind ;Neither this, that, nor t‘othetcs the man to roymmd.Not the ruddy-fac'-d fot, who tops world without ’end ;N >t the drone, that can‘t relifh his bottle & friend;Not the fool, thaf^s t^o fond; nor the churl,that’s unkind ;Neither this, &c.1Not the rich, with full bags, without breedingor merit;Not the fluih thatts a(I fury, without any fpirit;Not tht fie Mr. Fribble, the [corn of mankind;Neither this, See.*But the youth, w om good fenfeand goodnature.inipirc, ,Whom the brave rmift efteem. and the fair (liouldddmuc:In whofe Heart ’ vc and truth are with honourCo join'd,This, tliis, and no other'•s the man vo my mind*19GRAMACHREE MOLLY.AM IKISH Ai«.A? down on B2nna‘s banks I ftray4^,one evening in May,The little bird?, in bUthfoms notes,made vocal evlry <pray;They fang their little tales of love,they fung them o'er and ocer:Ah 1 gramaohree, my choileenouge,ma Molly aflitcre.The daily pyLd, and all the fweetsthe dawn of nature yields;The p: imrofe pa’-e, and vi let blue,lay feat ter d o'er the field-.:Such fi agrance in tiie bofoni liesof her vvr.om L adore.Ah ! gramachi ee, Sfc.I laid me down upon a bank,bewailing my fad fate.That dooyrd me trus the /lave cf lov^and c uel Molly’', hat' ;How can die break the lionefl rearti.iat w ars net in it, core?Ah 1 gramaenree, &c.20You fald you lov;d me, Molly dear,ah! why did I believe !Yet, who could think fuch tqf der wordswere meant but to deceive 1That love was all l afk‘d on earth,this world ceuld give no more:Ah! gramachree, &c.Oh! had I all the flocks that grazson yonder yellow h'li;Or ‘lowM for me the num‘rous herdsthat yen green paflures fiil,With her l love I‘d gladly (haremy kine and fleecy dore.Ah! gramachree,. &c.Two turtle doves, above my head,fat esurting on a bough ;I envySd them their happinefs •to fee them bill and coo ,Such fondntfs once for me flie fliew‘dj,but now, alas! ‘trs o‘er.Ah! gratnachres, &c.THE ANSWTR.Ye gentle wh'ids, that fofily blowalong the verdant plain,G./whifper to my Strepi>on‘s earhis love's retain'd again;In (Vreeteft language tell the youthhis forrovvs to giv^ o’er,Ah gramachree! my lore Ihall beas happy as before.^The daily py^. and all the fvveetscf Nature’s flowery bed,Shall join to make a garland, meetfor my dear Screphon's head ;The primrofe pale, and vi‘let blue,HI add unto the flore ;Ah gramachrec! and vve fhai! beas liappy ae batora.Fully many a fetne of mourningmy Molly late has known,Bccaufe my heart its fvidneij keptfor thee, my love, alone ;My parents hid ms from thy light;and fpunrd thee,from their door:Ah gramachree! but now vvcdl beas happy as before.I laid me down upon my bed,bewailing ray fad fate ;And, like a faithful turtle dove,I mourn'd my a'ofent mate:And, as the lingering moments pafs5^,I told them o‘er and o^er :Ah gramachrec! but now HI bsas happy as before.22Ydu fatd ycu Iovld your Molly dear,thy vows I did bflievc ;For well 1 knew mx Stiephon‘,s heartwould ruder mv faith deceive :Thy lore was all I wi(h‘d on earth,this World could give no more.Ah gramachree! and now vve 11 baas happy as' before.Our flocks together now vvc‘11 t«nd,upon the yellow hill;And gaze, enraplurhf, on the fvveets’which yon fair profpe<5b fill .While HeaV-n upon our mutual lov*ihjll all its bldiings p;,ur.Ah gramacluee! vve then fhall beas happy as before. ■ —WHAT'S THAT TO YOU.Mt Jcsiiy and I had toil’dthe iiw-Lng fumrner s day.Till we were almoft fpod’dat making of the hay :Her keichy was of holland clear,ty’d on her bonny brow ;I whifper’d fometliing in her earbut svhat is that to you ?23Her bookings were of kcrfy grten;a» tight as oay (Ilk ,O Cc a leg was never feen!her (kin was white as milk:Har hair wts black as ane cou’d wilbjand fweet, fweet was her mou’ lOh Jeany daintily can kif*.but what is that to you ?The rofe and lily baith combingto make my Jeany fair ,There is nac benntfon like mine,I have amaift oae care ;But when another Twain, my dear,(hall fay you’re fair to view,Let Jeauy wnifpcr in nis ear.Pray wjiat is that to you ?The Beautiful Girl.Ill Cng of my Jenny all day and all night,flic's aiway- good-natur’d and full of delight;ter looks are f • pleafant. her eyes are fj bright,< hat 1 alwavs am happv when ihe’s in my ftght.\nd a beautiful girl is my Jenny &c.4 To me Jenny’* love is oft-time: expreft,)f all her young gallants (he loves gje the bed;i|ier iipr 1 oave kifs’d, and l.er bofom I ve preft,jlte’s fweeter than rofes in June, I proteft.Aud u beautiful girl, &c.4Of ail tha ^ay lafs«s that dance on the green,’Tis Jenny excels with an air and a mien;She flogs like a fyren. ftic !o ks like a queen,She’s the fvveeteft voting beauty my eyes e’erhave feen.Anti a beautiful girl. &c.Conte hither, fwcet Jenny, no longer delay, {Join iiands with your Jocky. to church let’s away;Don’t trufl till to-morrow, be Krppy to-day, 1And gladly the fummon* of Cupid obeyi'heii lave flial! bijvls Jenny a d J- cky,Than love fiiall blefs Jen v and j cky.GALL A - WATER.Br,vw. braw lads of Galla-water,0 braw lad? of Ga la^waur.I’ll k.lt my coat i aboon my knee;and follow my love thro1 the wafer.Sac a:i*her hair, fae brenr her b ow,fae bonny blUc h:.-r een, rny deary,Sae * ite‘ her teeth, fas fweet her mou’,1 aften k'ifi her till I’m w^ury.O’er ' op bank, and o’er yon brae,o’er ydn mofs amang the heather,I’H kilt my coai aboon mv knee,and follow my love thro’ the water.Sown a man 5 the broom, the brooia,'down amang tljt broom, jut deary {The lassie loft her (liken (hood,that gar’d her grec; till flic was weanvTHE LINNETS. .As bringing home, the other day,two Lumets f had !a’en,•The little warblers fcem’d to prayfor liberty again.Unheedful of their plamtirc notes,I fung acrofs the mead:In vain they fwclfd their downy throat*,and flutter d to be frce’d.As pafling thto’ the tufted grove,near wi-ich my co>tago flood.I thought t. faw he queen ot love,wheti Chloe’t cnarm l view’d:1 gaa’d. 1 I -v’d I prefs’d hw flay,to hear my tender •nje ;But all in vain flbe fled away,m* could my figtis pi evail.Soon, t»ro the wounc which love had madecame pity to nr- breaft,And tr u; (as cy.mntfli -u bade)the fcaUiei’d pv ' addrefs’d Jci6Ye little warbler*remeinber n«t 'l flr« •For I, wh > tliouftht m\frit fu fref;am far more caught than you.—4 Willy’s Rsre, Sc Willy’s Fair.With tuneful pipe, and merry glee*yeung Willy woa my heart;A "blither fwaln yoa cou’dna fee,all beauty without art.Willy’s rare, and Willy’s fair,and Willy's wond'rous bonny jAnd Willy fays he’ll marrv me,gin e’er he marry ony.O came vou by von water-fide?Pull’d yon the rofe or lily?Or came you bv von mea lew-grean ,Or Taw you-my fweet Willy?Willy’s rare, and Willy’s fair, &c.Sin’ now the tree* are in tht;r bloom,and flowers fpread o’er ilk field.Til met: my lad among the broom,and lead bim to my Aimmcr s IbieldWilly’* rate, and Willy’s fab’} ®cc*27The Shepherd Auokis.The Shepherd Adoni< beinr. wearv'd with fport}}he f r a reniecient tc* tr.e woods did re fort-Hi trnew by bis dub. and he !aid himftlf nowni;Hi; envy’d ;;o monarcii, nor wiQi d for a crown 5H:r dra 'k of tiic burn, and he ate fra6 the tret;tiirnfdf he ccj >y'd, and fiae tioubie was free :Be wifhfd for j o hsm'ph, thoiiglr never fae fair,Hac, riat love or ambition, and therefore nae care*But as* he lay thus in an er’ninff fae clear,A heev’olv !»ect voico founded faft in ins •ar,VVlrici' came frae eftiady grrsn neighbouriiig^rovjCWhere bonny Am) nta fat finging of love:1 The nymph &e beheld him with.a kind modeftgrace,Seeing fomething that pleas’d her appear in hiyface ;With blufhing e little fh« unto him did fay,O fliephtrd! what wan: y e ? hew came you this way?His fpirits reviving, he to her rtply’d,] was ne'er fae furpris’d at the fight cf a maid!Until 1 beicid thee, from love 1 was free,Kut now I'm ufen captive, my f&ireft, by thee,G 218•^E MERRY AND WISE.To be marry and wife is a proverb of olfis,JStot a maxim fo good can’t be torj often told1;Then attend to my fong, nor my counfel defpife?For t mean to b* inerty—but merry and wife.Ye bucks, who then toping fuch rapture expre/s^And jet frnd the next day difmal proofs of excels,Avoid all sxtrcnies, and mark wail my advice,*2 •. to drink and be merry—but merry and wife.In women all lovely, is center'd each blifs*But lei. prudet.ee give far&ion, ’twill fwecteu^tbe kifs ;If not beauty or folly your ferfes furprife.You inaykifj andbe merry,—yet mcry and wife,Tfacn yc topers and rakes* who would leadhappy lives.All exesfs avoid, and chufe modeft wives;■While prudence prefides, it is thus l advife,Levs & drlr.kj& be merry,.—but merry and wifelI wlnna Gang wi’ Thee.Wy lafser, do you Jockey ken,the pr de t*f Aberdeen JHis golden leeks haug o’er liis broutj.feyc wautcuj in bis ten*IpHis teeth with fnow-drops wayhis brea h t^ith new-mown hay;He"s bonnitfl where the bonny conic,a!id baith can fiog and fay; %Gang down the burnTmy Meg, he Cry’^Gang down the burn wi’ me.I ken’a what he’d be at, and faid,I winna gang wi' thee.If to the wimpliug buraie fjfoon go to wafh my c’a'uhj,The bonny lad his winf me fiut«tunes o’er the neignboii'ing braes.:At e'en, &s hams I do return,frae milking milker’s ky,Hi’H lak’ my Legkn o’tr the bent,and Hit fa* blitfrfomely,G ng down the barn, my Meg. he cry’c^jGang down the burn wi’ me:I ken'd what he’d be at, and faid.1 winoa gang wi' thee*If ewes fliou’d ftrav?he ll hound Ids dog,and fetch them f. ae the gitn;He’ll tent the w.’athers. to the trows,and "bring my lambkin- bin ;He’ll buy m> libbon-kuots fa file,a <d p in them to my breaft;He’ll kifi fit fwtet. and fighitig vow,I’m bnnulcr than the teft;c 330Gang dawn the burn, my Meg, he cry'dGang no-vn the bun wt’ me.Hout lad, gar.R firfi afore the PrieS,and then l L gang \vi' thee.eg;'gaThe Maid whom I tdore.Ttla bird that hears her nefllings cry,and flies abroad for food.Ketu ns impatient thro’ the (kj,to nurfc. tlie callow breoa:The tender m thcr knows no joy,but bodes a thoufand harms,'And fiekens for the dariing boy,when abfen: from her arms.' ’ _ ■ \Such fordnep, with impatience j .in'd,.n;y faithful bofc>ni fires;2?ow forc'd, to leave my fair behind,the queen of my defires:The p w'rs of verfistoo languid pa'V#,all fimile. are vain.To. Ihcw now ardentiv 1 love,or to. leiicve my paiu.My foul’s with ardent love infpir'd,fin e ’it a g ft divija :Ko love r ev*t. wa- f< fir’dwith love tio:e pure titan mintt3*I take what liberty I dare,’twere impious to fay more t~Convey my longings to the fair,,the maad vt horn 1 adore.—X—PATIE’s WEDDING.As Patie came up frae the glen,drivin’ his wedders before him,He met bonny Meg ganging name,her beauty was like for to fmore hint,0 dinna you ken, bonny Meg,that you and I’s gae>n to be marry’d ?1 rather had broken my legbefore fic a bargain mifearry’d.Na Patie—-O wha’s idl’d you that ?1 think that of nev/s they've been fcanty,.That ) ihouid be married fae foon,or yet fboulvl ha’e-been fae HantlyjI «in a b: married tiie year.fupp.ife i were courted by twenty:.Sae Parie, ye need nae mair fpear,for wet) a wat I driuua want ye.N<w Maggie, what mates ye fae fwfer flift caufe that l iiinna a maillin iThe lad that has plenty o’ gear., aecd.ii&’tr war t a hiuf cr a nail aniiIff31 .* • »My dad has a good grey mare,and yours i.as twa cows and aAnd tiiat will be plenty o’ gear;fae Maggie be tia fae ill-wiliy.Indeed Patle. I dinna ken,bu: fi ft ye maun fpeir at thy daddyyYou te as weel bnrn as &n,and I canna fay but I’m resdy;There’s plenty of yarn in clues.To make me a coat and a jirupy,And pla;den enough to b- trxws,Gtt ye gst it, 1 Ihanna ferimp ye.Kow fair fa’ ye, my bor-.ry Meg,I’ft let a wee finacky fa’ oil you;May my neck bs as ia..g as my leg,if. b. an ill liuft>a. d*unto you.Sae gang y'cur Way . am e. owmake ready ’gain 'this day fifteen dey?,And toft your fatiicr trie news,that i ft be his fon in great kmdnefs.It was na lat'g after tliat,wl.a cam’ to om biggin.:, but IVit ?Wecl dreft in a bra-.* new coat,and wow but he thoug 'i himfelfpoctty!Bi* bonnet wes little frae evyin it wa- a loop ai’d a ft:,ty,To lie in a,ribbon la. b u •.' to bttb at tlie neck of hU co&iy.33Then Patie came in wi a fiend,Said, Peace be here to the bigging.You’re welcome, quo’ William, come bfiif,.Or 1 wi& it may rive to the rigging*Now draw in your feat and fit down,and tell’s a’ your news in n tiurry.And hafle ye Meg, and be down,and hing on the pan wi’ the berry.Quoth Patie, my news is r.ae thrang,yettreen 1 was wi’ his ho' our;I’ve la’en three rigs of braw land,and na’e bound royf&il under a honour tAnd now my errand u> yrais for Meggy to help ;n« to lab. ur;I think you maun gte i the beft c, w,bccuulc that «ur tuuidm t but. fober.Well, now for to heip you through,Pll be at the «oft of tne bridal,Pf. tut tne craig of the ewethat had amaift died of the lide-ili.And that’ll be plenty or bree,fa*, laug as our well is nae reified.To all our gond neighbours ajid we,and 1 think we’ll no be ill-tealled.Quoth Patic, O that’ll do wee!,and I’ll gi’e you brofe in the morning*©’ kail that was made yeflrcui,foe i like them bad in the forenoon.34Sat Tam the piptr drd play,,and ilka ane danc'd tliat was willing,And a the lavs t ey ranked thr utni,and they held the ftailpy ay ruling.The auld wives fat and they chew’d,ana waen that the carles grew Happy,They dai c'd a' wee! as they dow’d.wi‘ a crack o’ their thumbs end a kappieTiie lad that v/ rc the white band,I trunk * ey ca'd Jamie Mather,And he to k she b- de by .the hand,and cry d to p’av up Maggy Lauder.o   o oThe Liss cf Fade’s Mill.The lafs of Pane’s mill.ip b uiny, blithe, and gay,In f| i;« cf all my (kill,hath ftoL my i eart away ;When tedding of the hay,bare-headed on the green,Love ’midit her locks did play,and wanton'd in lie een.Her arms white, round, and fmooth^breads riling in their dawn,To-age it would give youthto pitfs ’em with his hand:35Ti-rough all my fpirit/ ranan tx'ficy of blifs:When ! fuch fweetnef- fandwrapt in a balmy kifs.Without the help of art,like flowers which piece the wild,She did her i'weets impart.whene'er flte fpoice or fmil’d:Iter looks they were fo mild,free from affected pride,She me to love beguil'd,1 wifli’d her for my bride*... 'O had I all the wealthHopeton’s high mountains fill,Infur’d long life and health,.and pleafnres at my will,I’d promife and fulfil.that none but bonny (he,The lafs of Pane’* millfhou’d fbarc the fame with me. o Tits Flower of Yarrow.rlapfy's the love which meet1 return,V.i.tei, iv. fert flantrs fouls tqua! burn;But words are warning todifeeverThe toimcntscl a hope lets lover.3^Ye reglflers of time rslate.If, looking o er the rofis cf Fate;Did you there fee me mark d to marrowMary Scott, the flower of Yarrow ?Ah no! her form’s too heav nly fair,Her- love the greatefl fure muft (hare.While others with defpair explore her,And, at diftanc* due. adore her,O lovely maia ! mv doubts beguile,Revive and blefs me with a faille;Ala if nor, you 11 foon debar aSighing fwam the banks of Fa' row.fk nuQi, ye fears, I’ll not dtfpair.My Mary’s tender as the ■ fair .Then Pll go tell her all my anpuifh,Sin; is loo good to let mi languilh :With fuccefs crown’d, I’ll not envy rX- oft folk., who live fa Itation Htth :When Mars Scott’r become my marrowjWe’ll make a Paradilt in Yarrow.0^=^ OTHE LAST TIME I GAME U ERTHE MUIR.The laft time I came o’er the muir,1 left rm love behind me :Ye Po wer ! wnat pani do endure,when faft id-.as mind me?37Soon as the rucUy morn difplay'dy the beaming day enfuiog,I m betimes my lovely maid,ii fit retreats for wooing.Beneath the cooling ftiade ws lay,gazing and^haftely fporting ;We Icifs’d and promis’d time away,till night fpread nei black curtain:I pitied all beneath the ficv .ev n king', when (be wa; nigh meIn raptures I beheld her eyes,wnich could but ill deny me.Should 1 be call’d where canons roar,wncre mortal fisel may wound me,Or caft upon fomc. foreign fhorsw iere dangers may furhoand me;Yet hope again to fee my love,to feaft on glowing kiAcr,Shall make my ear«* at d fiance*move,in profpect ot fuch blilses.In a ! mv foul there’s not one placsto let a rival enter ;Since flte excels in every race,in her my love (hall center :Sooner me fcas thall ceafe rc fl ow,their waves 1 < Alps (A'ail cover,Gn Greenland '>ce fliail rofes grow,before l esaf. to love her»D38The next time I §p o’er the muir,ftie fhall a lover find me;And that my faith i- firm aiid pure,tho I left her behind me :Tl ien Hymen’s fiCred bonds dial! chainmy hearrto her fvr bofom.There, wiiile my being doe- remain,my love more frelh (hail blofsom.Low Down in the Broom.. f #It was on Monday-morning,tnat day appointed wa..That E went ! rth into tKe broom,to meet my bonny laf .So bh th and merry wa- mv heart,to bear her company.And /he’s low down /he’s in the broonijwaiting for me.Waiting for me, my dear,waiting ,f r me,And fh. ’s low d< vvn, /he’- in the broom,.where merry fhaU'wc be>I looked o’er my licit /holderto fee tsvimt ’ c id ' : :s.And there I fpy’d my own true lovecome linking o’er the lee,39^STitli a bra w fiv> >d around bro<r,coat" k.lted ta her knee0 flic was linking o’er the broonifor to meet with me.for to meet, &c. t1 took my - us love ih my arm;,fo menV wa> my :eart;I fai^:- My life my loVciy jewel,my dear we’ii'sever part;1 fkid. My dear* we’ll neve; partu nil the day we die.And we ;e down among the broont^ir.err- fhail we be.Merry. &C-Hold off y; ur bawl- young man. <he (aid,for it tmi ft not b fo :For iir.U does my faUier,or vc* my mother know jFor t• -y wo* w, nutr in their mind*wl.i-t i as bc#on’e of me;For thev little think I'm in the broom,talking with thee. Talking, fee.My d'ady he's a canker'd carle,, he'll riac twui witn his gear;My miimy Ihe’s o, fcokiing wife,bads a’ the ho'ufe in Geer jD 246But let them fay, or let them do,it’s all o.rie to me.For he’s low down, he’s in the broofn,that’s waiting on me. For. &c.My aunty Kate fits at her whtc!,and fair (he lightlies me ;Eut tie i ken f ’lis a’ envy,for ne'er g jo ha^ the.But let them fey, &e.My coufiti Ka'e was fair beguil’dwi: Johnie in the glen ;And «ve fines, fyne the ci ics, Bewareof faii* cixluding men.But let her fay &c.G eed Sandy he came waft ae night,and fpecr d wh,cn I law Pate,And aye fince-fyne tlie neighbours roundthey jeer me air and.late.But ict them fay, or let them do,it’s a’ aue to me.For Uii gae to the bor.ny ladtiial’s waiting on me.Waiting on me, my love,He's waiting on me;For tie’s low down, he’s in the broGfn,*>■■&+ i Cii I2iC«41•AULD ROBIN GRA.Y.When the ftieep were in the fauld,arid the kay.at hams.And a' tne btify warld to fleip were gan^y'Fhe waes of my heartfa's in fhowers fiae my eyes.When my anid p.uidmanlyes foaiid flieping by me.Young Jamie lo'td me well,and he fought me for his bride jBut faving a crown,he had nothing btfide:To make the crown a pound,my Jamie went to fea:And the'crown and the poundwere baith to me.He hadna been awa’*, a w&k tut Oijy ttta,Tiil my mollter (he'fell fill',and thi cow was fiolen uwar;My father brake his oim,and my Jaihie went to fea:And au’d Robin Graycj>ms a-courting cf me<.I>3< 42Ivfy father coudna worlr,my mitner ceudna fpin ;I tsii’d day and night,but their bread 1 epudna win;And Robin maintain'd them baitbjand with tears in his eye,Said Jenny, for their fake,0 will ys many me ?My heart it faid him nay;1 lo k’d for Jamie hack,But the wind it blew higfe,and the (hip h Went to wreck.The (hip it went t> wicck,V\ liy did not jamie die ?And way do t- iveto fay O wac's me lAuld Robin urged fair,the’ my niitiscr didna fpeafc;She liu/kcc in my facetill my heart wa« like to braks;Sae they mad' me gi’e my i and,bu: my h.-ait wa> in the lea;Now auid R bin Grayis a guid mm to me.I hadna bren a wifea *■’' <-k but nlv four,\^iien fi-'in,' ae nightrsoua.fully at the doer.43I fi'.v my Jamie’s ghoft,but coudna think it he,Til!-lie faid, I’m come back>my love, to marry thee.0 fair did we greet,and mtikle did we fay ;We took a parting kifs,and v/s tore xmrfeives away1 wiih that I were dead!but I’m no I ke to die:And why do I liveto fay, Wae’s me ?I gang like a gaifi,and I catena to fpin :I darna think on Jam it,f >/ tliat would be a tinRut I wiii do my befta gmd wife to be,Foi iidd Robin Giayis a gu.d mat: to me.=er;^3THE ANSWER.I’ve go? my Jetty B.llto deep by my fide,I’ll evt-i bltf tne dayI got her for my bride ;44Far file's but twenty-four,and ! an) fix'.y-threc,And yet ftie is a kindand a loving wife to rae»■ V ‘ *'Young Jamie lo’ed iier wee!,a d fought her for- his wife jBut he went to faa.and there he loft his life:Full fore did fhe mourn,but it helped Could not be:Then I w.fh’d in my mindfns would be a wife to me.Her father got a fa!!,by whip!) his leg he broke ;her mother fhe foil fick;arid little was their ffoek ;They had but ae milk-cow,wiifen was ftolen from the byrejAnd my bonny Jenny Bellat working did not tyie. JFull fo e ckl flie work,and toil’d late and air.Her parents to fopporr,but fbanty was their fare ;I faid 1 w uld-maintain them,. it that the would agree;■ And ever -.vould befriend-them,if fee would marr" ms.45She faid. For to marry,Oia never did incline,Btcaufe her dearrft Jamiewa’ ever Ln her mind:She ne’er cou’d love anilherfo dear’s the loved he ;Therefore to my propefalthe never cou’d agree.I applied to her mother.whofe aged heart did bleed,Beeaufe that I had oftenfupporied them indeed ;She wa* loth to aevife her,but faid the’d liappy be.If her daughter wou’d content• to be a wile to me.I made my Jenny prefentsol filvcr broseh ai d rings,Yet. flill iha fliuu d my prefence,for a’ theft bandfome things:At lath 1 grew fo ill,that foine tiiought t wculd dieTi.iii my bonnv Jenny Bellthe came to viGt me.A" foon as I b..l’.eld her,it nid my heart relieve :I faid. if ihe would marry me,I hoped yet to live.ib l grew vysil again,-And of J; uiiy BellI grew wonderous fain.ill., like a queen-appears :I’m y linger like alreadybv mare't;..an wenty years ;SIk ufe m* fo kindly.f > v:/! we do agree,N • f.iis live m 're friendlyi . J . y Bell and rae.TU D idi of Auld Robin Gra!) Na-a-e it war gay.Whtu K ■>' v\a attending.' or AtiKi R f in Gray ;Fqi n. \vi' fick rt heartya i yd nae friend b*. fide,But i?i »y n e. poor Jerry,w o newly was ni bride.Ah Jenny! rtn i die he cry‘d,a ftirr a~ I had birth;Then fee rm p'oor auld banes,pray, laid into the earth,itiJIf47And b1! a widow for my fake,a twelve-montii and a cay,Angi I will leave whate’er belongsto Acid Robin Gray.I laic Poor R"bin in the earth,as decent as I could,And fhed a tear upon his grave,for he was very geud;I teak my'r ck ail in nry hand,and in my c' t figh’dA'n 1 wae’s-me, w-iia' (half I do,Geer Poor Auid Robin's dy’d.*Search ev’ry par* throuyir ut the land,tiiere s none hke me forlorn;I’m ready e’en to ban*' ‘he daythat ever I was hevn :For Jamie, ai t lov’c on earth,ar.! he is gone awav,Itly 'at* er's aead. my mitl.ar’s dead,and eke -iui*.; Robin Gray.At length the merry bells rang round,1 c u’tina gueds lijfc cauft-,Be R m e\ wa- t e man. ’.hey faid,\v .j had gain’d Inch ppiaiifc :I doubted if ti.e ‘ale true,tib Jamie came to me. ^And fli w.*d rp.irfdot golddn Ore,and faid. It is f. r thee.P' / N lS.48THECONTENTS.Ti»s Mariner’s ftfife, ' — — — Pag" 5Nae luck about the lioufe, — — — 5The Wayward Wife, with the Anfwer. — 8, 9The Wedding Dav, 10 — Hie Bonny Lad, 1 1Ralp of the Mill, .— — — — — 12Ths Ewic wi* tlie Crooked Horn, — — 14.A Man to my m’nd. — — — —.17Gramachree M »ljy, with the :\.nfwer, — 19. 20What:’ that to y u ? — — — — 22The Beautiful'Giil. 23 — Galla-Water, — 24.The Linnets 25 — Willy’s rare, &c. — 26The S.iep'-erd Adonis, — — — — 27Be Mtrrv and Wife.—1 winna gang wi’ thee, 28The Maid whrfm I adore, — — — 30Patie’s Wedding, — — — — — 31The Laf ■ f Patie's Mil!, — — — 34The Flower rf Yarrow. — — — — 3 TThe L-jfl time 1 cam o’er the Muir. — — 36Low down in the Jioonv, — — — 38Auld R bin Gray with the A'.fwer, — 41 43The Deatn of. Auld Robin Gray, — — 46FALKIRK—T. JoHNSTON, PRINTER.1819.