AN ACCOUNTGF ADREADFUL\Hurncam,fIWi '-ch happcir t! in th Iflird of JAMAICA,| in the month c: Ofto^er, itSo.— Aifo ofanother in th ■ year following.AND OF\n Awful PHENOMENONCALLED Axornaao,;i h took placGj in the pariflt of Ednatn in E r.nvii kfhire, this prd’ent year, I7g9- To theI great terror of the Spectators w]*> beheldits alarming afpeeLDUNBAR:itcd tor and Sold by G/MILLER at whofr Shop may be .:k a rajiety ot Small Hiltones, Set mousse- Caietih iu »,Ualiads, Glyidrens hooks and PRtutes.ffitC'i E-XAM cud Klyl Ait.V OF SCOTLAND r* Tr ■.V     —.t.—     ’■Ak *    , . ’• • • /AN ACCOUNTO i' ADreadful Hurricane, &x.Hurricane in Jamaica^ O^cocr^ 1780.I^IIE moft formidable enemy the ftmnr cahas to encounter, and the principal dreadthofe latitudes in which it grows, mud, from :(idlruiftive pre eminence, be Ueemed ;he hurricar' The fell Tornado, and the burning plains .of Afrithave only lands and deferts to witnefs their stall .nant furv; but the wind vvh'c!\, from its efxeUs,am about to dtferibe, (weeps through the regioiof cultivation and cnpence, and reduces, and alm«with a*fingle bfa{f,*the independent to diflrels, tailluent to want, and the feeling.tr> defpair. Itunpkafant to (peak of public calamities, if the' 7"( 3 )jlatrities can cosia home ro (Hjrfslves; and it i« 0>rr.r.'ion f 'rthijfi' v'i-.o fijfftr sue iitrle to complin,'hnfe •’•'ho fon'r much are hardly Cfedite<l iiienumeration of misfortu’n-. s. Ths fi> ft impre/i.n of things is geuerahy magnified; Hf.d the djf-chce which removes us from the feat of action, ist’ raufe of ciifbeli'ef; and fancy .• often fupnofedbe caih..’ in to the aid of truth. But what T a in(put to write is a.pi tin and a fmple narrative,‘jperieitced by numbers, and (3 fo hum’b’ea an in-iduat may cure to tpeak) molt awfully felt. byfelf; ?Jtho«oh I am confeious that mv lofs was{i.v 4ike a bubble in the ocean, when con ip .red rojt m . vnitu'de -of fhe nreneral mafs. The Ihocichich the fuTcring p.rithes fad.)*vied, very few| cions of thofe panflies will evet recover. A[lire general deitruftion in the exteof of 3 given|tp ;«ic« of laud, hath rarely happened; and theIfricarre of 1780. whl be erer acknowledged as atatieh that defeends but once in a centurv avidferves as ?■ fcOurge to correct the vanity, touLie the pride, and to chaitile the impruacncc1 arrogant e of men.the following ciefcription, which immediatelynaturally aroie from the melancholy fu j et,isn the fadts were frelk, and the ruins, as it vver *,ore my eyes, will not, J truft, be deeme'd foreignhe general tendency of thefe rerrtarirs; antf I11 be, I / ope, excufed, if I endeavour to awakenrecollection of calamities paft, particularly as infc calamities the«*joor negroes had likev, ile theirBon of di{ .ppointment and affliction."his deftruftiye hurricane began by gentle anc^oil unperceptible degrees, between twelve ando’clock, on the morn of the 3d of Cctob-r, apihe year 1700. There fell, at firft. a trifli .gwhich continued, without imrsafe, nutMl i#n1 %iSlr,’clock; about which time .'he wind arofe, and til,f-a began to rear in a mod tremendous and uni.^tlr.'.on manner. As yet, we had not any pre-leni .ment of the dilhrefs and danger which it was lot ,arterwards our unhappy fortune to encounter: aia: hough between two and three o’clcch in the ?,ternoon^ we faw the fubordinat buildings begintotter and fall around us; )et ■ e did not thinkneceffary to provide, at that time, far bur prefe :or future fafety. We r*ow obferved, with foiemotion and (On<;erft, a poor pigeon endeavoiwith fruitlefs firuggle, to regain-its neft: it f itered ’png in the air; and was io weakened a: lathat it was driven away by the wind, and in aim* .a moment was carried entirely cut of li . ht.As great events are iotnetimes the .confccjuerj ?of finall beginnings, and as bmple o, curences foften as ftriking as great concerr;., I ould not ht ,dwelling with commiferath n upon what I had letand of anticipating, in iome meafure, the lots ainconvenience, though net there.,! dUfiruEiion^what foon- afttrwards enfued.A poordifeouragrd e^e, intimidated by the t:rers of the night, had found its way ii .o the ct ant quarter of the houfe, which, at the time 1her retreat, muft have been wholly negltffed; ito which it vas afterwards, as tuir laft relbrt, <unfortunate defliny to repair, hhe lay with pati .cold, and fearful trembling, an ioft the joifts, 1could Ihe be difplaced by the importunity of ki ,and cuffs that were inedfentiv dealt around bShe became a pathetic lufierer m the fucccediriglamity; and he .mult have been a brute, inde .arid more delerving of the appellation llie hart', vcouul have perfevered in forcing her from luc .feeming protedtion, or could have, been envioumat li.icty, which, frem her ucwiilirgnefs to, < 5 )ve, it was natunl to think that fits at'that timsloved. I muft confefs, that I tried to ditpoffrlsbut I tried in va.M; and I have fines refkifted,her prefervation was as dear to her as mine8s to me: and I feel a real comfort in repsatiao;)fe exquiilteiy humane tind tender lines of O . id,lich are fo feelingly deferiptive of the fate af this!,'(i ufefiil and patient animal,i Every thing claims a kindred in misfortune:.'icI els like death-, but death, al ts! to fome'comes» late; and to others it comes too early, in a.ort time, perhaps, it was the fate of the noortek creature above discribed to f: el its firoK.-.nig,ht have caui’eJ, unknowingly, its execution-,Id might have feafted u'pon its flelh. The very ideadills my biood, and brings to my mind thenembrance of the dreadful fituation of Pierreud.An aft of dire neceffity may be certainly e-xsafed;It to deflroy (for the gratification of an jmpetkeich we have in common with hrute-s) that whic.is been ufed to live in a .domtiUc and in acherifn-ftate around us, would argue an infenfibilitv,(am which every feeling mind mad nXturaliv re-It: and { firankl hi.pe, that there are but ikv/opie who could eat or drat kid, which tb :y hadn lick the butcher's hand at the very momentt the knife was about to deprive its innocence cfiflence; and whew it fupplicated, with an almoitman cry, its prefervation of life, and with andiihment fo particularly expreilive of tender¬'s and pity.From the morning until four o’vlocl;: m die•f-rnoon,the wind continued to blow with increal-g violence from the north arid call: but fromjtat time, having collefled all its powers of devaf,-l:ion, it ru.hed with irrefrftable violence from thefrnr’r-.. and in about an hour and half f‘ \ that0ti'od, fo general and p-rritveririg wer.- i:a accmvlated elfetts., tiiat it fcaivelv left a p!ant?dn tree,i r.e, or bu’ltin^, enjnjun ,<-.Lvsut font o’clock, ve .found it i,- poffible to focusthe houfe again it the incrt'fng iniperucflty of ifwind, waieft began-to difj.uee the Hurgies, up!the tOiif, to force the witulcwr, and to ga-n i-n elir uce on every fide: and its Wiy de fltnffion ^hitoo ful'y proved hc-.v foonr ami how univerf»l!y,fucccedcd! We1 were now driven from the apyrne!.’s abo.e, to take fhe-ter in the rooms briob: * ti'.ere we were fello w . ’, bv frt(h cat g: rs, atiffipi'Spd by fre;.h alarms. The detr.on of defbrvit: in was yw-.f ed in the winds, and not a rentecould tfc -.re its malignant dev .nation. While «iwere looking with apptcher.Con and terror srourus the.roe‘f iafters, plates, and ivalls of iiseyirtuents iff, in, and immediately above our headEnd th horrid crafl.es cf rhffes, furniture, acfloors-, occafinned a noife jnd Uproar, .that may 1in tlie, par it n.k:more r afliy felt, than the weakhefs of any pen c£p'ofh dy defcfiire.1 v. il not attempt (indeed my abilities and h-•gua,;? tit -..ncqual to the fade) to awaken.the leiflbk.tv of others, bv dwelling upon private misfotuner, when the kJi.s rf nyny are entitled to (perior regard: but egotiit.- may be furely allowin a narrative of this kind, where general comp.trions nti’d in feme rr.eaiure describe individual fuf rings, and where what enc felt, has been ti1 t cf nun.bfr^: and where a ptrlon has inde'ntica■]v fetn. and been involved ir: the ftme detlruiflioiit is uif'cult tojcee-p clear < f exprefiions that do n«in..neo.attiy' apply to, and (peak-the language a( 7 ' \ 'in upon u? fo ioon as th“ir houfs-s were deftrof-and {vhofe terrors (eemsd to ba'e dep'i.fi( i ienfe and motion, not only %’ ry part’cn-angmented the confufion of the.time, hot verym:!e: ably added, by tb rir whlfpers and did re Is,the feene of general fulpenfe, and the iljcla.it).s ol hope and alarm. .Some lamented by amici- ■s9 the 10 s cf their ivives and children, cfich their fears ha-S. deprived them; while others| [retted the downtiU of their houfes, cf whi uy had fo lately peen the anfortu;.ate (peclitors.t will be'diiTioilt to conceive a., fitmtion marefrible th.’.-i what my hoafe afforded from fourlock in the stf cfnoon •..nil fix o’clock, the enfu*morning. Driven,- as we were, from room, toin, while the roofs, the floors, and .die walls,- wereibling-over head, or falling around us; the \vir>d[wing with-a noife and violence that cannot evenbe refledlid upon without alarm; the rain 'Liring down in torrents; and the night whichjraed to fall, as it were in a moment,, uncom-•niv dark, an i the gloom of which we h i'd not ai|gle ray to enliven, and, the length of Which we.1 not either fpirits or refolqtion, by converfatiot.,cheer! rte.negro huts, as; before obferved, werethis time deftroyetd; a£id the mifrrable fuSercrshed into the horde, and began Inch cotmdaintsrd lamentations^ as added'very considerably to the•comforts, ai d much increifed the almofl beforefpeajcable (jiflrdTes, of the feens. 0«;e poorman in particular (if r:nl phllanthrophy woul it djt’dain to m ,ke a clifcrimination of colour ,s, in a very particuiyr end fenfipie manner, en-ed to pity, tier ci.iid and that a favourite wasarly buried in the ruins of her hou e that fellamid her: fl.e fnatchccl h, with al; the inconii- -rate iuipatrcace of matei nal fondnch , from theI• ( 8 )> Fxncftst'o*: of a fua'den fate: Hie ftraineJ it toarms in fimpie love and unaflitted protection,ilw to depout her tender burden-in the retreatrfiftanrfafety: ms fl-w in.vaiu: the tempeft reach.In-r and f-vept the child, u:;confcioi.is of d1'oni her folding arms, an i (lathed her hopes a.cc-ufsrts ft> Jfhe ground. She recovered, and tojbofotn reft or td the pleafiag charge; (he endeavorcd to footh it with her voice; but it was (i ri/he fdt it, and fne found it col:!: (he fereamed,larhented; and (he cur fed; ncr could our fymp*:. ;c^hfole her furrows, our rein an,(trances r (train bviolence, r.or Our authr.iity fnpprrfs her execr;oi.s. She fit lif e. a mother, although an a pamight fay (he did not fe I like a Otriftian, Wa cold and illiberal diftinition! Give a Negro rigrion, and eftablifh him in either the piincipfobedience, or the knowledge of endurance, andvdil not ehfgrace that tenet which (nail be reco:nmft ied by praflice. Her lamentations were aa:ral and of confequence affeding; and give additioal deipondenoy to. a night that was already tmi ft'rable to bear an augmentation of /or-row.The darknefs of the night, the howling of twinds the growling of the thunder, and the p.tial flafltes of the lightning that darted through tmurky cloud, which furrietivies bur(t forth withplenitude of Light, and at others hardly g*ve fufcient lamination to brighten die terriiied afpectthe negroes; that, with oold and fear, were trent'lingkround; the cries of the,children wno were epofed to tiie weather, and who /poor innocent:hr < loft their mothers in the darkuefs anti confuli)cf the night; and the great uncertain y of oeneiand private (Ifuaticn combined; could not fail 'Arike the foul with as deep ar. it was an unacct' totned horror. In t*Le midfl of danger in the a( 9 )tr.Cments ofrurpence, and when a? mo ft fu'.fcpair, we prated for more frequerw lightning fai the walls, for more heavy thunder to out-roarblaft, in the philofophic confolation that theyijht purge the atmofphere,. ind difperfe therm: but. alas! they were but ieldom ieen, orbly heard, as if afraid of combining {he influenceight with the dtftruiftion of found, and of rad-i upon the ground of terror, the fupcrftructurei iefpair!| k'Vhen the night was paft, and our minds hungppended between the danger we hadef aped, and, ; anticipaiion of what we might e-xpecl to enfue;den the dawn appeared as if unwilling fo difclofedevatfation that the night had caufed; when thebeams peeped above the lulls, and ilium maudc ne around—juft God! what a contraft wase exhibited between that morning and the day-re! a day which feemed to fmile upon Nature,to take delight in the prcfpefls of plenty thated ajqund, and w-hieh produced, wherever thecould gaze, the charms of cultivation, and thamile of a uodance; but wbu:h fallacious ap.ranees, alas! were to be at once annihilated byextenfive and melancholy view of defolationdefpair, in which the expectations of the mo-iite, and the wilhes'of the fanguirte, were to uekjoon ingulphed- The horrors of the day v.vvch augmented by tin, melancholy exclamation ofry voice, and the energetic expreffion of everyd: fome of which were uplifted in afts of execra-i; feme wij • d the tears tr.at were flowing fromeve: while fome, considering from whence theration came, were ft*n to ftrike their breads, aso chide the groans which it was impoffible to re-tin. An uncommon (ilence reigned around: ftthe paufe Qf'confternation; it was a dumb era-19;f tiltory, that fuid more, much mor^ than aay tsngcould utter. The fir if founds proceeded from tmouths of the'iuoft patient of Nature’s cre?ture$i |fmni the ruclincholy co*w that had loft its calf, an:Vv'.fh frequert lo'.vihgs iiivited its return; from tji .r-other ewes, that with frequent bleehng.? recalll ‘their lambs, which' were frifkint* out of fuht, ut7 O j 'tchfcious,-sf'danger and ur.'.undud of food: ac■which folemn and pathetic invitations, after fu<h’ nigh', the contemplation of fuch a .kene, and tfdifpof'tion of the mind to receive pathetic knpref6«s, came home with full effect to thole who h- ‘fuf' red. hut who v ifhed not to complaindnifclTes of rhe feathered tribe be taken into t'jd .dcriptirn, their natui at timidity, their uncertty of food, of fnelter, and Gofneftic protection,c u'y cOnllder- V trifling as tfufe oblervat'or.: rappear, they certainty help to fwtll the cita.'ogtaof uiiirefs, to awaken the .iigh of feniibiiity, and .teach us that their exigence and their end aretif- hands of the fame Creator.Tne morning of the 4th of October presentedwith a profpect, dreary beyond defcr'ption, and a•fcroft fntlahchcly beyond example; and deform*with .fuch blafted figns c.f nakednefs and ruin,calamity, in its moft awful and delfrudfivc 01menfSj has fe^doro offered to the defending oblea alters of niankin '. 1 he f.:ce of il.e country feest-d fo be entire’y - hanged: the valiies and thepiairthe mount iins .and the fore (is, that were only t.day 'before moll t* utifully clothed with evsry vtdare, were now detpenied of ever'/ charm, andan expected abundance and fupt rjiuity of gain,a few hours fucceetltid Herility and waht; and everprof eft, as far as the eye could firepch, was vib!y ft r it ken blank w it'll defclation and with horroThe powers of vegetation appeared to, be an on( II }i j'fufpmd'fd; afc'd inftead of Nature her wort;, •the mind was petrified by the Teeming approach of’ fate and chaos. The country looked as if.it ha'd(been lately vifjted by fire and the (word; as if theTornado had rifled Africa of its lands, to dep fitT'thcir contents upon the denuded bdfom of thehilis*,Has if Aina had fcorched the mountains, and a(volcano had taken pofleflxon of every height. The(trees were uprooted, the dwellings ckftroyed, andf in feme places, not a ftone w'fes left to indicate the’(ufe to which it was once applied. Thcfe w o had■lh ouTes, could hardly diftingvifh their ruins; endthe pro rietor knew not where to fix the fituationol his, former pofllffions. The very be^fts "ot .illch.riptions, were ccnfcious of the calamity: the: els, particularly theHomeftic pigeons, were mc;ftt f them deftroyed; arid the fi)h were, driven from|tho5e rivers, and th To Teas,- of which they had be-f re beftn the peiceful inhabitants. New firea rs'arole, and extenfiye lakes were fpread, where rillswere fcarcelv feen to trickle before; and ferry-'warsjwere obliged to ply, where carriages were ufitdpravel i.vith fafety and c ni rnier.ee. The roadsfere for a |. no; time impafl^ble among .the moun-Itairis.* the hnv lands were over9owe*! and numbersof rattle were carried away by t^e depth- and impe-tunjity (Tthe torrents; while the bpundrits of thedtlferent plantations were funk beneath the accu-irui'at i prelfure of the innund dion.To give you at once a tru re. geaerai idea of thistremendous hurrican I ih .Il db'ierye., that not afingie h i:- '' was left undamaged in the pariT; notfir.gle let of works, tralh-hcufe, or other fubor-dinzt building, that'was not greatly injured, < rentirely deftreyed. Not a finals -eharf, ftcre houie,or ftjed,* for the depo.fit of goods, Was left fland—ling: they v,ere all fwept away a once y the billows*( *2 )cf the fea; anr’ hardly left behind, the tr?^es of*.:their foundations. The negro houfes ver*5 and tj! rlietre withcut af Wde exception, univerfally blowidf-dow'**: and this retieftion opens a large field for the: ;padanthropiflj whole feelings will pity, at leaft* |thofe miierics which he would.have been happy to:have had the-power to relieve. Hardly a tree, *fhrub, a vegetable, or a blade of grafs an inch iongfr fewas to be ieen flaoding. up and uninjured; the en«fuing morning: nay,‘the very bark was whipt fromthe h gwood-hedges, as they lay upon the ground; t:and rh,e whole profpecl had the appearance of a ck- ■fer*, over v\iuch the burning winds of Africa had j..I nely pafi:At .Savanna-la Mar, there was not even a veftige '(d a town (the parts only of two or three he'a .vshaving in p rtial ruin ren^ained. as if to indicatethe htuatlrn and extent of the calamity): the very,materials of which it had been conipofed, had beencarried away by the rdiftief's fury of the waves, ewhich •pnally c. mpitted what the Hvind began. A ivery great proportion of the poor inhabitants werecrufhed to death, ■ r drjwned, and in one l.oujjfpl ’fie, it was computed that forty, out of one andforty fouls, unhappily and pre maturely pc^ifiied.f Ite ha drove with progrefiive viultnee for morethan a mile into ^he country; and caried. terror,;as it 1 ft delfrutflion, wherever it pulled. Twoi'rge (hips' and a fchooner .were at anchcr in tnebay> but bere driven a confiderable difiance frorai!the ihore, and totally wret*ed among the ir.angc-trees up -n land.Were [ to dwell upon tl e numbcrlefs lingulariticSof accidents that this dreadfnl (form ’ocevdicned,bi’th among tie. mountains anu on the plains ov.;r,which is p .fied; were ] to mention its particulari¬ties and crjrices, and the variety of contingencies(V) ■ vnScli feemed impoffible to happen, which imagi-l lion might tridc tvith, but which realon would:trcel^ believe; in fliort, were i to mention whatiiyfelf faw, and what numbers could witnefs; [)l!uld be afraid to offer them to the ferious regardtJmy readers, in'the dread that I might be thoughttllnfult their underflandings, and to advance asliion, what it would be very difficult, indeed, toiltpit as truth.rjThe diffreffes of the mifcrable inhabitants of Sa-ssna-la-Mar, during the period, and for a long+ e after the ceffation; of the florin, muff havereeded the moff nerveus, as thev would haveirpaired the n\oft melancholy powers of,deferipti-They were fufh as ought to have affedled (ifblic loffis and private fufferings can ever affeftffony bofoms of the rapacious, and the icyIjjW’eis e>f the intereffed), they were fuch, I fay, as"uld u Imoff have melted the unfeeling, and haveend the obdu: ate; bur, alas! they could not, inninny inffances, divert the rigid purpofe, andhheld the rigorous Irai <.• of the man of buiinefs.ofe who the day before w ere pefi' fled, not onlyvery domtftic comfcit, but of every renfonablelory cf li e, were no w obliged to feek. for fheiterIon a board; and were expofe:); in licknefs anditftion, unfheltered and unprovided, to the noify|r,u1,ons of the wind and the cold, and the fre-nt vifft itions ofthe fhower.Were i to enumerate private affiidlions in thisne of general devaftaticn and dcfpair, 1 flrouldjuire tire p thetic pen cf that accompHfhediter who h;,s given a charm to grief, and a di-ity to fufft ring, in the tender pages of t mm arbet; and who could fo v eil have txprt fledI correfponding fentimer* . by flo ing language,|J glowdng truth, thojc migf-ty lanows which thefather endured for the death of a Ton, w hichwife fuflained for the lofs of her hufljand,vanda!l thofe minor ties of confanguinity and friendlwhich were, at this unhappy and awful perifi'generally difolved.When we conlider how very foon the gayfuits and flattering appearances of life are defted; how uncertain are our polTcluoSs, andfubjeft to hopes, and how embittered bv dipointments, arc our purfuits; it is fomewhat c;ordinary, that we fhould be fo much attache*the world, fbould entruft the fun-fhine of our dand without fufoicion of a change, to every cltfbould commit our i^refent happinefs to the inftlity of climate, to the viciflituies taf cold and 1to the tert’ors of the temped, or the pe'lileidangers of the calm:—it is afionifhinp ’ I ag .inpeat, that we fhould repofe all our comfortsall our expectations, upon a world fo full of mor-cation, difappointment, and afihetior; whenmu ft be (C-nfcious that we mu if fo foon leave tworld and ail its empty d< lufions beliincl. Wwe look around, and fee people who thought t!fdves above the reach of want, and reclining, aa long appmnticeflTip of patient in ullry andfe .‘ering toil, upon the lap of late-earned indepderhy and honclt repofe; when we fee themthe fruits of exertions thus made, and of coiuftt'jus enjoyed, iirone fatal and deO<-yj£li\ el our, — wan awful .leflon does this reflection awaken inr. rods! arfd how much does it not warn us agibuilding upon a foundation lo \ery precariouheft, and at the bfft deceitful! ’dut then tothem, reduced to this ftuarien, and ftiuggling vinfirmities, without the vigour ct youth, orexertions of manhood—without fheiter fromweather, prot&dUon irtmi power, or m*at —— —( r 5 );jhik tc comfort the c tils of declining .nature,-oritereft enongh to refcue them from the impend-;g horrors of a gaol;—the accumulation of fuchmisfortunes, is sfnore than fufScient to excite com-Ifficn, but not always fufFrient, as we. find byleiancholy example, to obtain relief.i| So fudclen an alteration,: is enough to drake aImlofophy that has not before been tried; andII eh a change is fufficient to excite thofe complaintstihich are caufed by. difappointment, bat whichhay be. born with patience, and finaly overcomet|y calmnefs and refignation. If i«*«nv:et with af-idlicrj, are vjs alone unfortunate? \i r.e lole curill, are ve the only beggars?. How many are re-Lceci to penury .who cannot work! tv hat Cumber?.i;rifh whhcut help, or are entombed alive-withoutjuy! and yet ho y many emerge from dklrefs and|anr, l>y a manly fortitude, and fieady perftverenceI’conduf;'. fhe hhnd of power may opprefs; butr-aiocemtfc has its peculiar triuntph, as mifery can-|or reach the grave; f-.r that is’the retreat of Vjr-lie, h'er confum.-nation, and her end.j; I can hardly prevail upon myfelf to believe, thatr.e united violence of ail the \.inds that rufh fromI’.e heavens, biov.n through ojje fub, and directedn one fpot, ccuid have otcafioned lurli deftruftion,nd in to fhert a fpace of t ime, as th.-t of which [as an urfcrtnnate witnefs, and of which I am nov/erome the feeble recorder If we oven con< lud.s itOjt.ble that the ruins of our buildings could haveeer, occasioned by the coricentfatim of its fury,o,\ arc we to account for feme pr.jenUfc-eru ofo-iih we were the fuffering and .-Sowilked fpedfa- '- r;; F‘ow account for the lubaeri irruption of ri-ers, the laple-; of earth, the difunjon of rocks,.re fifiiires of mountains, and for other objects ofj.c fublime and terrible, which have changed anddisfigufed the face of the country? How accoui*for the hollow roarings of the fea, and for the inliability of the climate for many months befonand for the dreadful paufes that were obferved t-take place, before the buildings were entirely overturned? It can hardly be doubted but that heaveiand earth were combined in compleating our dflruflion. One element alone has been hardly evflknown to occafion fo extenfive a devaftation; anijthe fuddeo fwelling and raging of the fea, we mreafonably ttribute to the heavings of the earth!quake; to which likewife the general ruin of o-’1houfes may be in fome meafure attributed.. I have feen the ruins of Lifbon; and if it woolnet almoft amount to folly to' compare, in thplace, great things with fmull, I thou Id fay ththe dtfrruftion there, great and melanc’.ioly as i'was, cculd only have been, by comparifon of buiings and extent of population, more dreadful thatthat calamity which I have now the prefumption tdeferibe. The earthquake 3? L'ftnn happened itthe morning; and ahhough it almoft univerfall;aflefl’d its buildings, yet the produeftions of truearth received, in confequence, hut li tie damagewhereas the hurricane in Jamaica continued throughcut the night, which has its particular terrors, independentiy of water, and of wind; and not onhblew d wn every thing within its fweep, but fpreacdeflation thiough the country round; and I an:apt to believe, that the peculiar diftrtfTes of thunhappy luffere.s of Savanna ia-Mar, muft haviequalle" every thing (1 ftiil mean by comparifonthat is to be met with in the moft melancholy anrals of human mhfortunes.To this calan.iiy, another unfortunately fu ceeded; and the confequences of which were ft ill mor-fatal to the liv^s of thole vho hud furvived th( 17 )firm. The french that arofe from the putrefac-a of the J :a(.l bodies, which remained for manyiTs vviihout interment (and to numbers of wh'n hrj; rites of burial could not be iJminilfered), o^ca-|ned a kind of pefiiltr.ee, that fwept away aat proportion of thofe who had providentiallyaped the fir ft tie ft ruction. Almof't' every perfonthe town and nei dahotuhood was alTeftleti; andrt faculty v.ere renderediblj_ through.;ncfs, to attend their patients, many of whomiihed from the inclemency ot the '> ■artier, fromnt of .attendance or iupply oi food: 'and to addthe general apprehenfion, the negroes pouredUvn in troops to the ictne of devaft-cition (and, [:i lorry to oblerve, that many woke people werebtecfteJ, opon the fpot, of promifeuous plunder);.1 having made free with the rum that was float-gin the inundations, began to grow ii.folent andI'ruly; and, by their threats and conduct, occafion-an alarm wiiich it was found necdlary, by exer-h-and caution, a-t once to fupprefs: and what thecfequences, at fuch a time of general confufionId dread, might have been, had' not the punche-^ been immediately flawed, can hardly, even atis diftance of time, be relieved upo,u without•rrour.That the unenlightened negroes fliould be led tounder, when they could do it with lafety, andtheut the curbs 'of morality and religion to re-■ain them, is a circumftance not to be wondered>s it is confident with the common depravity ofiman nature; but that tho e who ought to be aeck upon that licentipufnefs wh'rh they them-1 es perhaps have taught, ftjould Hand forw-ard toveil mifery of its iaft fupport, and e1.-.n plundermury itlelf of its utmoft farthing, is a reflectionion thole who can dittinguith black from white(. IS )in tb^olour of the human ih't!, but .who cnnnedifcritibinate what is black from white in * e intceticonduft of man to man.' To take advantage csmisfortune^ in the time of public calamity and p-ivat© affliflion, and to ratfe a fupeF-flnjflttrr, howcvet fmnl!, upon the ruins of others; is what, alajl :has been too often -actified without chaflifemcn't, '•and enjoyed without th.?;nc: and if thofe who artin authority over negross, and to whom thev art■taught to V;)k up for the theory as well the p’r.t :?tof iatep;rity ■ ft dj f. t an example of worldly iujulrtice. of rapatity and plun<ier--the neero v ho f l!lo -s this infamous ex .n pie, unconfcious of ttrori;is neither a principal, dor an ncctfl.ry, tritho hilmay pcffibly be ednvifted of both; while the jew.-delinquent, who grows rich from infamy, is fufRt.edtoefcape without tria*, and coniequently with¬out a punifh'rneot. I mud therefore from !..k:seondu.ie, that a reformation in praclical mannetf'mu ft beg t h with the white people in the color,; s,before any humane tnftitutions for the relief of the. flaves can cither be carried info full, or even into,partial elTed; and this preliminary 1 fhail hedeaw 1ter endeavour to fnpport by corol.aries drav.n ire mifaci and experience. " , | 1The congratulations c? the morning that fee-ceedcd the dreadful vification which has been thefubjebl of thefe pages, were fach as fee toed the:ipontaneous tffckls of what the bofom felt from-the:relief of fupereniinent dangers: the fad occafion.feemed to create new ideas in the mind, and to give:pangs to feeling, of which the heart was before un¬confcious. ■ Many people thought that the day ofknal judgment was come; and felt it as it it was;then too lay. to reflect upon danger: for d ir.ger,which implies rn.crtsinty, would then have been aa p caring idea, inafo-uch *s chance is a contraft to-■( T9 ){»•.si Jefo vr. It is the rja'.ural province »-vf man toir.-r; it s an appen'dage of his condition: bat itquires a fomething more to leUrn to iubmit, andI pjticut tub.avffi'ii, without complaint^ to hear.| it is naturalro fuppofe that the ilorni above def-fcjed mud have giv:n rife to many di fir effing!i:i patheti* luenes; muft upon fome oCcaftens haveirro.vtd up the foul, and upon others, have in¬deed a ttndernefs and pity. Hulbands and wives,|.i parenis and children, were in many placespa fated ' by the* terrors of the night and fe-iWated, as before ohferved, to meet no ;<>ore: butmt\ thefe dreadfu! f:_nes I fliall not attempt to'fei, as their remembrance will ffirvive the de-tlptioa of my pen, in the melancholy perpetuitywdomefllc adtictiohs; and 'vliich mimberlefs fa.dies, more or lefs, to tire deftruflion of theiropes-, and the dlicQ».fort of tbieir lives, will long,: try long, have caule to lament.I fliall'never forget the deflate appearance myoufe made immediately after this catatlrophe, norie many tircumdances of dill refs and comrnifera-on that alternatly (hocked and foftened the mind,fcre a poor infant v;as feen extrutdtd from the,(iins, and its lifelds body confined to the care andjljhentations of its defpoodin r parent?; there fat aroup ol negroes bewailing with heavinefs of he?irt,,|d all the lilent eloquence of ftreaming eyes; and.fc»chtd-out hands, the total deftrusftion of theirittle forfisoes, in the wrecks of their houles, thefni c*' their. effiefts, and the demolition of theirjtonnds; while ethers ran confufedly hers andfere, wdlrout knowing upon what errand they|ere bent, or whef e to begin, or how to fet aboutile x-rioration of their lolles-, or by what philofo-,dn.’ to confola their minds.f There witfe many who willied, to be employed* rendcrin-a our fituations more coKi.oitable, out{ 20 )who, from want of method, and from that huwhich is its comhmt attendant, were always .the way, and onfequently did more harm th| 'good. Some, indeed fucceeded in their exertio nand [ Oiould little deferve thofe comforts l fo foalfound, in compirifon to many others'", did lbear witnefs to the willing induftry and unremittiapplication of the tradelmen and other negroes vvwere employed in the reparation of the ofEces, an Iin making tight thofe parts of our tempcftary dwlings wbic were dsltided to the accommodationourfcifcs and friends.Another Hurricane Jamaica} t"Sr.I.'J addition to the .forementiooed calamity, tinhabitants of the ill md^of Jamaica, were ;gain vihted by this dreadful fcourge of Humanitwithin lefs than a twelvemonth after it happened^as appears from the following; extract.Kingjlon, Arg, 4, 1 7SAbout eight o’clock on Wednefd ty evening, til ft in ft. a hard gale r.f wind came on front the fouilward, but foon after veered to different points •the compafs; before nine it iticrealed to a perfehurricane, and' c. ntinued to rage till near elevetgreateft part of the ti re blowing from the foutltaft, accor'.panied. by a heavy and inceff.tnt rai*nor did the fterm altogether fubftde till about tw «in the morning: 73 fail of veflels, including floopIchooners and fhallops were on fltore bet weeRuflel’s hulks and the wharf of John Vernon, .hloand Co. and fevcral others to the weftward of tftov/n, but being moftly light vtlTcls, the greatspart 0/ them either have been^ or wiii be got oigh nol without confiderable damagl Theer in the harbqur is furpofed to ha e rifrn bs-eu fi^ur and five feet perpendicular, the plauk-«f the wharfs in general being torn up, andy heavy articles- that wdre upon them entirelyi?d away, of IMellfs. L?w and Harcrreave’st arf, fcarce the veftigss remain—The greatcfltof the reWirred fleet being at Port Royal, the.•unts from T-mce are Itill mere deplorable, twodeu fljips bei; g cither funk or overfet, and 241 on Ihore bctvteen Salt Ponds and Mufqu'uo[int.5 Many houft* and piazzas in this town were blown:*’u, and two negroes found drowned in the;ets, in which torrents of water for feveral hours|i down with errrat rapidity.1 Is Mcjefiy's Ihip Pcli > n was drove upon Mo¬lt Key, ,nd fuppnf d to be totally lefti the fhip’spany, excepting four; were procidentiall) faved.Three v.fie s were drove afhore in the harbourMartha Brae; the fhip Rofcuck, of New-Tork,floc-p Beaver, and a fl op belonging to King-n; the flrft is tetaky lolt, the other two will ber>p(fl.he fliip Orange Bay, which went aflame neare Twelve Apcftles, contrary to all expectation,s been got < ff. A confdcrable part of the car¬es cf levcraf other v. fills, that were drove on[ore near that place, has been laved.Mis Majefly’s (hip Southampton, after having hadengagement with a French frigate off Cape Framis, was by the l?te {form difinafled and driven toreel RjfF, to the leewertl of port Royal, wheree nuw "remains; the Vaughan and fcveral etherfills are gone to her afliftance.The llorm very uufcrtupateiy proves to have beenjnerai threu^heut the iflhr-d, though not e«pallyfi'olent: in Weftmortlarid, St. Ann’s,and St. Marythe can 3 have received confiderabie d-.nage, afthe plantain walks, together with the ripeningV rhave been tc.tiillv (lefcroyeJ, the other paril]particularly thole to windward, have buffered .imuch tefs decree.Montego BnThe frorm on Wednefday the tft of AnguH: 1:done much damage to our (hipping; it has dralliore two (hipe, the Chriftiaa and Juno, a Avfddl ofNiel’s, and a hrig belonging to Gapt. A1Hamilton, is totally ioif, and himfelf and mdrowned; M'Kay’s wharf is carried aW.iy; Drs Pt:ney and iluecalUe, M- lTrs. Blake and Indies’s ne,jhoules and tlores a;e tiirown downfall the prolion and fine V ps of corn are deftroyed; the carare all laid and there is hardly an cftateWefimoroland but has fufiered in bulk.digs. J.TUiyfies. which came here from King/ton vv:f20,ccdl. a part of the parliamentary grant to tlfntferers by the dorm in October la It, has betdrove to Sea, together with a.brig'out oi blue fit 1»1and, through the whole parifh of St.. VUfaheth, tfeprovifions in genera1, are deftroyed, and.the camgreatly damaged. • *• The uccoutifs from Hanover are equally unfavoirabie.S*-. Mary’-, St. Ann’s, and Trelawny, have afuffered very cohliderably yi their provifions ancanes.On Sunday laft'the fhip Ulyff-s,— , ThomaEfqi commander, went into Lucea harbour undijury malts, with the lofs of her bowfpri^ being athe damage we underhand (he has fiutj.ned.Tetters received from Sr. Elizabeth mentiotthat the karcity of p.'jvilions for the negro,is fo great, in cbnfeqnencC of the lad llorm,n )v of the inhabit;'nts are obliged to pnrrhafe4\ the exiiorbitart price t f a bit for fix ear.s,r'j" to keen their flaves from prr'.ihing untilr provifir;»s cr-n be ‘rocured.is ye; impcfilbJe to fjy what number cf firesbeen loif in this dreadful calamity; but theybe numerous; in one plantain boat onlv,i p.-rfons perjfijed; as did the crew of tfiettuhy’s3 at Port Ro' d, in ejhdeavouriug to alTdt a vef-n difi ref# 'non after the ftorro came on.L Jinbvrgh. Advn ttfer^ Kcv, 6, 17SI.I'crnaih i.i Ziotland, Ally,■Ornado. The following interefting account ofthis awful p aen menon, which took place atrtla in the pa'fifh of Ldnam, Berwi kftiire,toe ad cun we copy f*om the Kil/o Mail.The weather through the day ha.! been calm,loft fhowers. At ieven o’clock in the even*htre.w;.s cbfierved by many pe; pie a little toouth-well 0) Mr. i'cd’s houle at V/hitelaw,life fight coloured cloud of a very uncommonarai’ce. It referr.bled an inverted cone, reach-frcm t'-; pround to a confidcrable height in t hehere. Its motion towards the houie was flownujdHc, a perfon of no great agility on feeing11 roach could eatily have efcaped from it. itn at length to whirl round wfth great rapidity,n’pahied with a loudjattling r.oiie. Phe efieCttam. z'.rg power was firit exhibited upon a large; c; firaw in the barn.yard, which it raifed inuials to a ,confiderable height in the air. Aa of fimfecr, lying fiat on the ground, vras hurl*dm its plate levers! feet; and it will be thought>ft to exceed credibility when it is mentioned,this beam was thirty-three feet long! Small!rs were heaped together in mounds rs if byijod. The farm-offices were materially injured;sr*“>1L24 )fo:v>e of them, indeed, were a l mo ft entirely ftr’pt (their tiles.“ Human .ftrength was mere v. eaknefs whenpofed to this war of etemens. A ilout youngloWj w'lio f|ad witnefie'd the f'cene in the barn-ynrfrom an ap;prehenfi. n that the houie muft neo/*riiy be tumbled down, run out for lafety. ThIjftlds enemy, however, lifted him over a wallfey high, and carried him forwards for thirtyforty,yards!—Several of the iervants were forddriven about, fome in one diraftioii and feme inl other, according to the eddy. The horfes acattle upon the farm exhibited the livjieft t>yntoms of alarm aisd agitation.The dwelling hcnle at Whltelaw, in which tfamily refided at the time, jbook with filch vioier.jas,to threaten its defhufUon .and theirs. Provid.,tially. bbwe er. amidft ai! the devaftation, no pifon was materially hurlj and, what renders this tmore remarkab e is, that the til. s whi h wtretcfrom the lurroundmg offices fell &om . n inr.melh.ight. in vail numbers, among the people expoto the florin.‘‘ IJefore the. cloud rea- bed the farm houfe itfortunately divided, and the two parts taking diffcdiredions, only one of them Itruck the buildiHad the whole codeifted force difvharged itlelfonce, few, it is probable, would have ftnvivedrelate the particulars.“ There v;as little rain at Whitelaw cithermediately before or after the whirlwind; but in jadjacent country, to the north and eaft, owing,fuppolcd, to the violent concuffion oft the clotthere was a torrent of rain, and in fome places hfor a few minutes, as had not been obferved inmemory of man.—Edinburgh Werh/y Journal, Nc~- Printed by G. Miller; Dvnbar.