THEComical TransactionsOFLOTHIAN TOM.IN SIX PARTS,..Containing a Collection of Roguish Exploits doneby him both in Scotland and England.—O-O- 0—O™"*STIRLING : .PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1822,THECOMICAL TRANSACTIONSOFLothian Tom.PART I.'pHIS Thomas Black, vulgarly calledA Lothian Tom, after his native county,was Dorn four miles from Edinburgh.His father being a very wealthy farmer,gave him good education, which he wasvery aukward in receiving, being a verywild, cross, and mischievous boy.1. When he was about ten years of age,he wat almost killed by the stroke ofa horse’s foot, which his father had, whohad a trick of kicking at every personthat came in behind him ; but when Tomwas got heal of the dreadAl wound,whereof many thought he would havedied, to be even with the horse, he getsa clog, or piece of a tree, full of wcodenpins, such as shoe-makers use to softentheir leather upon, and with a rope he tiedit to the couple’bauk in the stable, directlyopposite to the horse's tail; then gets up3on the bank, and gives it a swing back,so that the pikes in the end of it, camefull drive against the horse's arse, whichmade him to fling ; ana the more he flungand struck at it, it rebounded back again,and struck him. The battle lasted withgreat fury, for a long time, which wasgood diversion to Tom, until his father,hearing some disturbance in the stable,came in to know the matter, and was sur¬prised when he saw the poor horse tan¬ning his own hide, witli his legs all cutand bloody; he cut the rope, and the bat¬tle was ended. But the poor horse wouldnever kick at any that dame behind himafterwards, but always ran from it.2. It happened one day that Tom wenta-fishing, and brought home a few smallfish, which his grandmother's cat snapt upin the dark: so Tom, to have justice ofthe cat for so doing, catches her, and putsher into a little tub, or cog, then sets hera-drift into a mill-dam, ordering her togo a Ashing for herself; then sets out twoor three dogs upon her, when a most ter¬rible sea-fight ensued, as ever was seenon fresh-water j for if any of the dogsassayed to board her, by setting in overtheir nose, baudrons came flying to thatquarter, to repulse him with her claws;then the vessel was like to be overset bythe weight of herself, so she had to fleeto the other ; and finding the same there,from thence to the middle, ..here She satmewing, always turning herself about,combing their noses with her toot. Theold woman, being informed of the dan¬gerous situation of her dearly belovedjcat,came running with a long pole to beat offthe dogs, and haul her ashore. What■ now, says lorn, if you be going to takepart with my enemies, you shall havepart of theif reward ; then gives the oldwoman such a push, that she tumbled intothe dam over head and ears, beside herbeloved cat, and would urdonbtedly haveperisned in the water, had not one of thepeople, who was there looking at the diver¬sion, came to her relief.3. After this, Tom was sent to theschoo1, to keep his hand out of an ill tuin;And having an old cankered, crab-wittsdfellow for his dominie, they were alwaysat variance ; for if Tom had got his whips,which he often deserved, he was sure tobe revenged on his master again for it.So Tom perceiving that his master hada close-stool in a little closet within theschool, where he went to ease himself.Tom gets a penny-worth of gun-nowder5and sprinkled it on the ground, directlybefore the seat, and lays a little of itslung in a train to the fire-side ; thenobserving when his master went into it,i and as he was loosing down his breeches,sets fire to the train, which blew it allabout his Master’s bare hips, and scorchedhim terribly, besides the fright, for whichTom was severely whipt; yet in a littleafter he revenged it on his Master.4. So it happened one day, as Tomwent into his Master’s house, the wifewas stooping into a big meal-barrel, tobring out some meal: Tom takes her byby the feet, and coups her up into thebarrel with her head down, and her bareback-side uppermost •> then runs into theSchool, crying, 0 Master, Master ! theDeil’s looking out o’ your meal-stand, wi'a fat face, and a black ill-faur’d mouth,yon’s just auld Nick, if he be living—At this tne Master ran with all the speedhe could, to see what it was, and found itto be his own wife, speechless and almostsmothered to death ; but as she could nottell who did it, Tbm got clear off: Yethe was not satisfied without some morevengeance on the old fellow*; and know¬ing his Master had a fashion, when hewas going to whip the boys, if they would6riot loose their breeches willingly, he drewhis knife and cut them through the waist¬band behind: So Tom goes to the butcher,and gets a raw pudding, and fills it withblood and water, and puts it within thewaistband of his breeches; then goes tothe school next da}, and, as the masterwas sitting with his back towards the fire,, Tom lights a piece ot paper, and sets hiswig in a low, which burnt for some timeunperceived, until the flames came fiz¬zing about his ears ! He first put outthe flames -by trampling on the wig, andbeing informed that Tom did it, flies tohim in a rage, ordering him to loose hisbreeches, but Tom told him he was neverso mad ; then he drew his knife, andwhips poor Tom over his knee, and withgreat kicking and struggling cuts thewaist-band of his breeches, thro’ puddingand all, 50 that the blood gushed out, amiTom cried out, Murder! Murder! anddown he fell; the poor Dominie ran outat the door crying and wringing his hands.Word flew about that Tom was sticketby the Dominie, which made the peoplecome running from several parts ot thecountry round about, to see bow it was;but on searching him, they found onlythe empty pudding, which discovered thefraud : Then two men had to get horses7and ride after the poor Dominie, whohad by this time got two or three milesaway, and when he saw'them comingafter him, crying to stop and come backI again, he ran the faster, until he couldrun no more, but fell over on the road,praying them to let him go, for, if he wastaken back, he was sure to be hanged ;and would not be persuaded Tom wasalive, until they forced him back and hesaw him, but he would be Tom’s teacherno longer; so Tom’s father had to seekanother master for him,1 BPART II.5. There was a young woman servantto Tom’s father, whom Tom had offendedby some of his tricks, and she, to be upwith Tom again, one night spread a hand¬ful of short nettles in his bed, betweenthe sheets, which stung his legs and thighsso much that he was obliged to quite hisbed for some part of the night; for whichhe resolved to be revenged, wnenevera proper opportunity offered. It hap¬pened in a few days after, that she was-invited to a wedding, where the dancingand diversion induced her to say all night:8and in coming home in the morning, hermistress set her to wash some clothes.But she being fatigued with her night’sdiversion, ami for want of rest, tell fastasleep with her hands extended in thetub, atiol standing on her feet, with herbelly leaning on the tub; Tom perceiv¬ing tins, sups her petticoats and smockover her head, letting the sun shine onher bare back-s:de, which faced the high¬way. Several people passing by, whileshe continued in this posture, some ofthem were uiverted, ana others ashamedat the sight 5 but a poor cadger had themisfortune to be coming on the road attiie time, and his horse taking frightat this unusual sight, threw off ihe creels,and broke the poor man’s eggs ail to» jiash ; which so enraged him, that helashed her buttocks with his whip, insuch an unmerciful manner, that with thesmart and shame together, she had notthe least inclination to sleep for the re¬maining part of the day.6. Tom being grown up to the|yearsand age of a man, thought himself wiserand more artful than his father ; andthere were several things about the househe liked better than to work*, sohe returnedto be a dealer amongstthe brutes, a cow-49per of horses and cows, &c. and evenwet ware amongst the brewers and brandyshops, until he cowped himself to ;hetoom halter ; snd then his parents wouldsuppfy him no :nore* lie knew well hisgrandmother iud plenty of money, but.she would give him none but the'oldwoman had a goodjdack cow of her own ;So Tom went 'o the fieios one evening,and catches and takes her into an oldwaste house which stood at a distancefrom any other, and there be kept hertwo or three days, giving her meat anddrink when it was dark at night, andmade the old woman believe somebodyhad stolon the cow for their winter’smart, which was grief enough to theold woman, for the loss of her dearlybeloved cow. However, she employsTorn to go to a fair that was near by| and buy her another ; gives him threepounds, which Tom accepis of verythankfully, and promises to buy one aslike the other as possibly he could get.Then he gets a piece of chalk, andbrays it as small as meal, and steeps itin a little water and therewith rubs overthe cow’s face and back, which madeher baith brocket and rigget. So Tomin the morning takes the cow to apublic-house within a mile of the tair,U10and left her till the fair was over, andthen drives her home before him ; andas soon as they came home, the cow be¬gan to rout as she used to do, which madethe old woman to rejoice, thinking it washer own black cow but, when she sawher.white face, signed and said, Alas!thou’ll ne'er be like the kindly brute, myBlack lady, and yet routs as like her asony ever 1 did hear: But says Tom to him- |self, 'Tis a mercy you know not what shesays, or all would be wrong .yet. So intwo or three days the old woman putforth her braw rigget cow in the morningwith the rest of her neighbour's cattle, butit came on a sore day of heavy rain, whichwashed away all the white from her faceand back, so that the old v .man’s Black-lady came home at night, and her riggetcov^ went away with the shower, and wasnever heard of. But Tom’s father hav¬ing some suspicion, and looking narrowlyinto the cow’s face, found some of thechalk not washed aw ay, and then he gavepoor Tom a heavy beating, and sent himaway to seek his fortune with a skin fullof sore bones.11PART III.7- Tom being now turned to bis ownshifts, considers with himself how to raisea little more money; so she gets a longstring, as near as he could guess to be thelength of his mother, and into Edinburghhe goes, to a wright who was acquaintedwith his father and mother. The wrightasked him how he did? He answeredhim very softly, he had losfa good dutifulmother last night, and there's a measurefbr her coffin. Tom went out and staidi for some time, and then comes in again,i and tells the wright he did not know whatI to do, for his father had ordered him to;i get money from such a man whom he1 named, am he was that day gone out of1 town : the wvight asked him how muchI he wanted ? To which he answered, aguinea and a half might do, or thirty shil¬lings at the least. So he gave him theguinea and the half. Then Tom gave himstrict charges to he oat on the morrowagainst eleven o’clock with the coffin, andhe should have his money altogether. Tomset out for the. alehouse with the money,and lived well while it lasted. Next morn¬ing the wright and his two lads went out1 with the coffiu, an(l as they were going.■i12into the house, Tom’s mother, standingat the door, asked the master how he didand where he was going with that finecoffin ? He did not know w’elJ what tosay, being so surprised to see her alive;but at last he told her, her son broughtin the measure the day before, and had gota guinea and a half from him, which hesaid was to buy some other necessaries forthe funeral. O the rogue ! said she, hashe played1 me that ? So the wright gothis guinea and a half, and so much for histrouble, and had to take back his coffinwith him again.8. Tom being now short of moneyagain, began to think how he could raisea fresh supply ; so he went to the portamongst the shearers, and there he hiredabout thiitv of them, and agreed to givethem a whole week's shearing at tenpencea-day, which was two-pence higher thanany had got that year : this made the poorshearers think he w’as as honest, generous,and genteel master as ever they got, forhe took them all into an alehouse, andgave them a hearty breakfast, till theycould eat no more. Now, says he, whenthere is so many of yon together, perhapsfrom different parts, and unacquaintedwitli one another, 1 d.j i$ot know but13there may be some of you honest men, andsome of you rogues ; and as you are to lieall in one barn together, any of you whohas any money, you’ll be surest to give itto me, and I’ll mark it down in my book,with your names, and what I receive fromeach of you, and you shall have it all againon Saturday’s night, when you get yourwages. O! very well, goodman, takemine, take mine, every one faster thananother; some gaye him five, six, seven,and eight shillings, even all they hadearned thro’ the harvest, which amountedto near seven pounds sterling. Havinggot all their money, he goes on with themtill about three miles out of the town, andcoming to a great field of standing corn,jthough somewhat green, yet convenientfor his purpose, as it lay at some distancefrom any house or person. Sd he madethem begin there, telling them he wasgoing to order dinner for them, and sendIds own servants to join them. Away hegoes with all the speed he could, but takesanother road into the town, lest theyshould follow and catch him, Now whenthe people to whom the corn belonged, sawsuch a band in their field, they could notunderstand the meaning of it t so the far¬mer whose corn it was, went off, cryingalways as he ran to them, to stop ; butI14.they would not, until he began to strikeat them, and they at him, he being in agreat passion, as the corn was not fullyripe j at last, by force ot argument, andother people coming up to his assistance,the poor shearers were convinced they hadgot the bite, which caused them to goaway lamenting their mi u rtune.In two or three days thereafter,'as Tomwas going down the Can* *■ s he meetsone of his shearers, who km him, andkept fast by him, demandim us money,and satisfaction for the rest. 4 Whisht,whisht,’ says Tom, ‘and you . get yoursand something else beside.’ So i'om takeshim into the jail, and cal's for a bottle ofale and a dram ; then takes the jailor asideas if he had been going to borrow themoney from him, and says to the jailor,• This man here is a great thief, 1 and twaothers have been in search of him thesethree days, and the other two men havethe warrant with them ; so if you keepthis rogue heie till I run and bring them,you shall have a guinea in reward.’ ‘ Yes,said the jailor, ‘go, and I’ll fix the roguefor you.’ So Tom got clear olll leavingthe poor innocent fellow and the jailorstruggling together, and then sets off forEngland directly.15PART IV.9. Tom having now left his own nativecountry, when into the county of Nor¬thumberland, where he hired himself withan old miser of a farmer *, and here heI continued ’for several years, performingI nis duty in his service very wrell, thoughsometimes playing a roguish bite on thosei about him. His master had a very naughtyj custom that he would allow them no can-die at night to see with them at supper.' Tom one night sets himself next to hisII master, and as they wrere all about to fallI on, Tom puts his spoon into the heart of|j the dish, where the crowdy was hottest,3 and claps a spoonful into his master’s£ mouth; a pox on you for a rogue, criedhis master, for my mouth is burnt: AI pox on you for a master, says l orn, for> you keep a house as dark as Purgatory, fori I was going to my own mouth with that3 soup and missed the way, it being sadark ;i don’t think, master, that 1 am such a bigfool as to feed you, while 1 have a mouthof my own. So, , from that night thatTom burnt his master’s mouth avith thehot crowdy, they always got a candle tohew them light at supper, for his master16vrould feed no more in the dark while Tomwas about the house.10. There was a servant girl in theforesaid house, who always when shemade the beds neglected to make Tom’s,and would have him to do it himself * Well then ’ says Tom, ‘I have harderwork to do, and I shall do that too. So next day, ^ hen Tom was in the fieldat the plow when he saw his mastercoming from the house towards him, lieleft the horses and the plow standing inthe field, and gvoes away towards hismaster, who cried, ‘ What is wrong ? oris any thing broke with }ou?’ ‘No, no,Says Tom, but I’m going home to makemy bed, it has not been made these twoweeks, and just now it is about the timethe maid makes all the rest, so I’U gohome and make mine too.’ ‘ No, nosirrali, says his master, go back to yourplow, and I’ll cause ifc to be made everynight for you,’ ‘Then,* says Tom, ‘Tilplow two or three furrows in the time.11. There was a butcher came to hismaster’s and bought a trine fat calf; soTom laid it on the horse’s neck, beforethe butcher; and when he was gone,‘Now.’ savs Tom, ‘what will you hold.17master, but Pil steal that calf from thebutcher before he goes two miles off?’*‘ Why/ says his master, ‘ Pll hold aguinea you don’t. ‘ Done,’ says Tom.In he goes, and gels a good shoe of hismaster’s, and runs another way acrossthe fields, until he got before the butcher,near to the corner of a hedge, where therewas an open and turning of the way;here Tom darts himself behind the hedge,and throws the shoe in the middle of thehigh-way ; then up comes the butcher,riding, and his caif behind him ; ‘ Hey/said he to himself, ‘ there’s a good siioe,if I knew how to get on my calf again,I would light for it; but what signifies onewithout its neighbour ?’ So off he goes,and lets it he. Tom then slips out, andtakes up the shoe again, and runs acrossthe fields, until he got in before thebutcher, at another open of the hedge,about half a mile distant, and there hethrows put the shoe again, on the middleof the road j then up comes the butcherand seeing it, says to himself 4 Now, Ishall have a pair of good shoes for the lift¬ing/ and down he comes, lays the calfon the ground, and tying his horse to thehedge, runs back, thinking to get theother shoe, ip which time, Tom whip- upthe calf and shoe, and home he comes,18demanding his wager, which his mastercould-not deny, being to fairly won.—The poor butcher returned back to hishorse, got only hjs travel for his pains;so missing his calf, he knew not what tosay or do, but thinking it had broke therope from about his feet, and had runinto the fie'ds, the butcher spent that dayin search of it amongst the hedges andditches, and returned to Tom’s master'sall night, intending to go and search far-ther for it next day, giving them a tedi¬ous relation how he came to lose it by acursed pair of shoes, which he believed thedevil had dropped in his way ; and howhe had taken the calf and all along withhim, expressing his thankfulness that thedevil was so honest as to spare-his oldhorse, when ue stole away his calf.Next morning Tom went to work, andmade fine white face on the calf withchalk and water ; then brings it out, andsells it to tile butcher, which was gooddiversion to his master and other servants,to see the butcher buy bis own calf again.No sooner was lie gone with it, than Tomsays, ‘ Now, master, what will you holdbut I’ll steal it from him again, ere hegoes two miles off? ‘ No, no,' says hismaster, ‘ I’ll hold no more bets with you,but I’ll give you a shilling if you do it.*19* Done/says Ton), ‘it will coat you nomore.* So away he runs a foot throughthe fields, until he came before the butcher,hard by the place where he stole the calf| from him the day before ; and here helies behind the hedge, and as the butcher; came past, he put his hand on his mouth,, and cried, Ba, baw, like a calf. The but¬cher hearing this, swore to himself thatthere was the calf he had lost the day be¬fore ! Down he comes, and throws thecalf on the ground, gets in through thehedge in all haste, thinking he had nomore to do but to take it up; but as hecame in at one part of the hedge, Tomjumps out at another, and gets the calf onhis back; he then gets in over the hedgeon the other side, and through the fieldshe cai 'c safely home, wuth the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent histime and labour in vain, running fromhedge to hedge, and bole to hole, seekingwhat was not there to be found. So the •butcher returned to bis horse again, andfinding his other calf gone, he concludedit to be done by some irrvisible spirit aboutthat spot of ground ; and so went homeand raised a had report on the devil, say-ing, That he was turned a highwayman,and had taken twTo calves from him. Soiom washing tire white face of the stolen20calf, his master, sent the butcher word tocome and buy Mother calf; which he ac¬cordingly did a few days after, and Tomsold him the same calf the third time ; thentold him the-whole aifair as it was acted,giving him his money again. So the but¬cher, got but fun for his trouble.PART V.12. There was an old rich blind wo.man, who lived hard by, that had a younggirl, her only daughter, and she fell deepin love with Tom, and Tom fell as deepm love with the money, but not with themaid ; the old woman bestowed a greatnumber of presen's on fora, and mountedhim like a gentleman, but still he put offthe marriage from jtime to time, and al¬ways wanted something, which the oldwoman gave the money to purchase forhim, until he had got about thirty poundsof her money, and then she would delaythe marriage no longer. Tom went andtobk the old woman and 'the girl aside,amt made his apology as follows ; ‘ Dearmother, said he, 1 am very willing to wedwith my dear Polly, for* she appears as21an angel in mine eyes j but I am sorry,very sorry to acquaint you that I am nota fit match for her.* ‘ What, child, saysthe old woman, ‘ there’s not a fitter matchin the world for my Polly : I did not thinkyour country could afford such a cleveryouth as what I hear of you to be ; youshall neither want gold nor silver, nor yeta good horse to ride upon, and when I dieyou shall have my all.* ‘ O but,* saysTom, ‘ mother, that’s not the matter atall, the stop is this, when I was at homein Scotland, I got a stroke with a horse’sfoot on the bottom of my belly, which hasso quite disabled me below, that I cannotperform a husband’s duty in bed.’ Theold woman bearing this, cl apt her hands,and fell a crying, ‘ O ! if it bad been anyimpediment but that, but that, but that,wofu* that! w'hich gold nor silver cannotpurchase, and yet the poorest people, evencommon beggars, have plenty of it.*—The old woman and her daughter satcrying and wringing their bands, andTom stood and wept lest he should getno more money. ‘ O mother/ saysPolly, 4 I’ll wed with him nevertheless,I love him so dearly!’ * No, no, ^oufoolish girl, would .you throw yourselfaway, to marry a man and die a maid !you don’t know the end of your creation,22it is the enjoyment of a man in bed, thatmakes women to marry, which is a plea-sure like Paradise; and if you wed withthis man, you’ll live and die and neverknow it,’ Hoo, hoo,’ says Tom, 4 if Ihad got money, 1 needed not been thisway till now.* * Money, you fool,* saidthe old woman, there’s not such a thingto be got for money in all England.’ ‘Ay,’ says Tom, 4 there's a doctor inNewcastle, will make me as able as anyother man for ten guineas.* ‘Ten gui¬neas 1* says she, 4 I'll give him 50 guineasif he will; but here is twelve, and go tohim directly, and know first what hecan do, and come again and wed mychild, or she and I will soon die both forthy sake.* Tom having now got twelveguineas more of their money, preparedfor his journey, anil early next morningset out for Newcastle ; but instead of go¬ing to Newcastle, he came to old Scot¬land, and left Polly and her mother tothink upon him. In about two weeksafter, when he was not like to return,nor so much as to send them any word,the old woman and Polly got a horse,and came to Newcastle in search of him,and went through all the Doctor's shops,asking if there came a young man thereabout two weeks ago* with a broken ——23to mend : Some laughed at them, otherswere like to kick them out of doors, andso they had to return without getting anyaccount of him.PART VI.13. Now, after Tom’s return to Scot¬land, he got a wife, and took a little farmnear Dalkeith, and became a very douseman for many days, following his oldbusiness the cowping of horses and cows, 'feeding of veals for slaughter, and the like.So one day he went to a fair, and boughta fine cow from an old woman, but Tomjudged by the lowness of the price thatthe cow certainly had some fault. Tomgives the wife the other hearty bicker ofa/e, then says he, ‘ Gudewife, the money| is yours, and the cow is mine, ye mauntell me ony wee bits o’ fauts that she has.** Indeed,’ quoth the wife, 4 she has naea faut but ane, and if she had wanted it,I would never a parted wi’ her.’ 4 Andwhat’s that, gudewife ?’ said he, 4 indeed,said she, 4 the filthy daft beast sucks ayhersel’ 4 Hute,* says Tom, ‘ if that be allI’ll soon cure her of that.’ 4 O ! can yedo that,’ said the wife ; if I had kend that24wad a done it, ye wadna gotten her.’-—4 A-weil,* says Tom, * I’ll tell you whatto do : Tak the cow^ price, I gave youjust now, and tye it hard and fast in yournapkin, and give it to me through beneaththe cow’s wame, and I’ll give you thenapkin again over the cow’s back, andI’ll lay my life for it, that she’ll neversuck herself in my aught.* ‘ I wat weel,*said she, ‘ I’se do that, an* there shouldbe witchcraft in’r. So Tom no soonergot in thro’ below the cow’s wame, thanhe looses out the money and puts it inhis pocket, and gave the wife again hernapkin over the cow’s back, accordinglyas he told her, saying, * Now, wife, youhave your cow, and I my money, andshe’ll never suck herself in my aught, asI told you.* * O dole !’ cried the wife,* is tnat your cure ? Ye’ve cheated me,ye’ve cheated me!FINIS.