ELIZABETH $OR, THEi!3XSfJES OW SIBERIA*BY M. COTTIN.If pious feelings can afford delight,If moral worth you deem the rule of right.Turn o’er our pages, you’ll recorded findActions that speak great nobleness of mind ;A youthful female, full of filial duty.Who thought more on her parents than her beauty.arge Collection of Song Hooks and Histories always on hand.MONTROSE:PRINTED BY JAMES WATT.y ••• ip,.-?. >- 6 ” F«Y : ‘"v'iV- 'j'*' 1' ■' '‘I. i': i i''CtlOI’ {f •: huj p5 ' $?' ‘Tji IV' „ /.■. : " i;JS l.n;r jTljroB .wn-fe' 4rr'ary —%-a*4^. 5 if'S’lSr*or.- i."3Tbe Exiles Liberia.410B0LSK, tlie capital of Siberia, stands on thej_ banks of the river Irtish, and is surrounded on thoI irth by forests extending nearly to the Frozen Ocean,j bile in the space of 1100 versts we meet with moun-; ins arid and rocky, and covered with eternal snows—•j ith uncultivated plains, and with streams whose con-1 :aled waters have never fertilized a single meadow,I >r beheld the expansion of a single flowret. Advan-nig nearer the pole, the cedars, firs, and larger treesijsappear, till at length we see nothing but marshes andloss, beyond which every trace of vegetation disap-sars. The Aurora Borealis, however, is frequent andajestic, and, while embracing the horison in the formI" an arch, columns of moving light issue forth, afford-g a wonderful spectacle unknown to the inhabitantsthe south. To the south extends the circle ofchim, which is divided from the Kirguis,an idolatrous:ople, by heaths covered with tombs. It is borderedthe left by the Irtish, a winding river which losesself on the frontiers of China, and to the right is againordered by Tobol, within an angle of which, at the:et of some rocks topped with firs, stands the baro-ial village of Saimka, distant from Tobolsk more than00 versts. In the circle of Ischim (considered thetaly of Siberia, from its enjoying some days of sum-ter) the rigour of the winter is extrenfely severe,'he north wind brings with it such intense cold, thatom September the Tobol is filled with ice, and snowills incessantly at this time, continuing to cover thearth to the end of May. After this time, indeed,dien the sun'begins to penetrate the snow, it is won-lerful to contemplate the celerity with which vegeta-jon resumes its verdure, two or three days only beingecessary for nature to unfold all her beauties, andtorks, wild ducks, and geese disport themselves onhe lakes—the white crane is seen plungin'; in thenarshes, and weaves her nest with the rushes—whi/ohe flying squirrel, leaping from one tree to another.4THE EXILESnibbles the bnJs of the pine and biren. nence to tlnatives of these frozen regions there belong some ha|py days, but none for the unfortunate exiles dwellthere.Two or three versts from Saimka, amidst a marsllforest, upon the edge of a circular lake bordered wrpoplars, lived a family of exiles. This household w;composed of three individuals, a man of forty-five,wife, and their lovely daughter, in the flower of hyouth. Enclosed in this desert, this family hadcommunication with any person, and except a po.Tartar peasant, who waited on them, no human fo<was permitted to enter their cabin. No person knethem, or the cause of their punishment, except tlgovernor of Tobolsk. When putting these exiles uiher the care of his lieutenant at Saimka, the governionly t Id him to provide them with a convenient habltation, with a little garden, and food and clothing ; biHcharging him, at the same time, to prevent all intercourse between them and others ; and, above all, iintercept any letters they might attempt to convey ithe court of Russia. Attention so particular on thljone side, and so much rigour and mystery on the othfhand, made it suspected, that under the simple nanltof Peter Springer was concealed some distinguishelvictim of adversity. People now ceased to be concer*ed for the fate of beings whom they never saw, ad«whom they at length forgot. Peter Springer had beerthe builder of his own cabin, which had been construct;ed of planks of fir, and covered with straw, and proftected by rocks from the north wind and the inundatiuns of the lake. Southward of the lake, the forealpresented on open coppice, and in the distance extcn.sive heaths covered with tombs, which had been violatted by plunderers, anil the bones of the dead scattere*in all*directions. To the east of this plain the Chris;tians had built a chapel of wood ; and it is remarkablethat here the ashes of tire dead had ever been treatejwith becoming awe ! In these wilds Peter SpringeBits till A»passed Ids mornings, in the chase e very win tor; hehilled the elks, and sometimes caught the sabley hutmore frequently the ermine, which is more plentifulthere. He sold the skins of the animals, and boughtfurniture and hooks for his daughter, who, seated be¬tween her parents, read aloud to them passages fromhistory. Springer did not fail to impress on her soulthe beauty and glory of heroism, while her mother,(Phedora) directed her feelings to scenes calculated toproduce tenderness of heart, and impressed on her mindthe charms of piety and modest goodness. The conse¬quence of such parental assiduity produced a characterat once courageous and feeling—combining all that wasnoble in honour with all that was tender in love.In the proper season the culture of the garden occu¬pied the family, in the southern part of which he form¬ed a fruit-house, where he cultivated flowers that werestrangers to this region, and when their blossoms open¬ed, he would say to his daughter, “ Elizabeth, deckthyself with flowers of thy native land, which resemblethee, and are beautiful even in exile!” Frequentlywould he take her in his arms, and, pressing her to hisheart, exclaim, “ Take away tins child, Phodora, herdistress and thine will destroy me When the Sab¬bath came, however, it was the practice of Phedora(who most regretted that she was deprived of partici-pati g in the offices of her church), to pass some por¬tion of this holy day in prayer, before an image of St.Bazil, whose character she much venerated. Edu¬cated in these savage wilds since her fourth year, Eli¬zabeth knew no other country. She felt amused inascending the rocks which bordered the lake to searchafter the eggs of the sparrow hawk and white vulture ;sometimes she ensnared the wood-pigeon in her net,or angled for the fish in the lake, whose purple scaleshad the appearance of fire, covered with liquid silver.Her growth was accelerated by the exercise she took,while every day, on her lovely and innocent face somenew charm was developed. At times, when she per-sTHE EXILESstbiod Her parents were unhappy, she would en¬quire the arise of their grief, when they told her theysorrowed for their country, but never uttered the nameof that cc tmtfy, or the rank they occupied in it. Sheoften ruminated on her parents’ grief, and implored theassistance of Omnipotence to find a way for their relief,and resolved to tear herself from them, and go oil footto St. Pe'tefsburgh, to intercede for her father’s libera¬tion; her confidence in God animated her heart, andassured her of final success.Some Years were elapsed, since, during a winterschase, upon the summit of some rocks by the Tobol,Springer had been delivered from great danger by theintrepidity of Smdlotf, son of the governor of Tobolsk,who came in the winter to combat the bears, and Huntthe elks and martins among the heaths of Ischfm, andthe- Ural mountains near Saimka. From this time thename of Smolotf was always held in high esteem bythe family. Three years passed when, one morningin December, Springer took his musket, and proceededto hunt in the Stepp, promising to return before thoclose of day ; blit when night approached, he was notreturned. In a state of anxiety and grief, Phedoraand her daughter set out in search of him; approach¬ing towards the plain, Phedora was unable to proceed,and Ifeant against a tree till Elizabeth made further re¬search. Elizabeth soon reached the plain of t "mbs,hut could not find her father ; )he darkness began tomingle heaven ami earth, when she heard the reportof a musket not far off, which revived her spirits—sliehastened to the spot, and perceiving a man stooping,as if looking for something, she crieds “ My father! isit you, my father ?” The person looked up, and wassurprized at seeing Elizabeth. “ I know not yourfather,” said the stranger, “ But I know that, at suchan hour, you omrht not to be alone on this heath.”‘‘Ah !” interrupted' Elizabeth, “ I fear nothing in thoworld to the dread of not ,finding my father.” Sayingthis, she raised her eyes to heaven, and their mingledOF SIBERIA7Expression or dignity and tenderness, couragi andpftness, at once portrayed all the emotions of her soul,nd seemed prophetic of her destiny. The youngutranger was struck—he had never seen any thing like'.lizaheth, nor imagined such a being as her. He en-: uired her father’s name ? “ Peter Springer,” answeredylizabeth. ‘-What!” exclaimed the stranger, “youre the daughter of the exile of the cabin of the lake !i'ranquillize your mind—I do know your father—^it isardly an hour since I parted from him ; he then; :rned to go home, and must by this have readied hisi welling.” She could listen to' no more, hut hastened) the spot where she had left her mother with cries1° joy. However, her mother was no longer there,he now made the forests ring with the names of herither and mother, and happily, at length, voices werecard, hailing her from the borders ,of the lake. Sheuickly arrived safe at the threshold of the cabin,here she found her beloved parents, who extendedleir arms to her, and she threw herself into them,xplanations soon followed, and it appeared each■turned liome by different, ways. Elizabeth now per-;ived the stranger was approaching. He was recog-zed by her father, who said to him, with deep regret,It is very late, M. Smoloff; and you well know I am•ohibited from offering you an asylum for a singleght.” “ Smoloff!” exclaimed Elizabeth and her mo-icr together, “ our deliverer! is it indeed he whome behold ?” Both fell at his feet. “ Smoloff!” saidlizabeth, “ ever since you saved the life of my father,»ree years ago, we have not passed one day withoutmploring for you the benediction of heaven !” “ Ah !>ur prayers have been heard, since Providence hasrected me here,” said Smoloff, “ for the little that Iive done merits not a reward like this.” It was nowte, and darkness had enveloped the whole forest,or Smoloff to attempt to return to Saimka so late atght was dangerous, and Springer could not refusee rights of hospitality to his deliverer, notwithstand-THE EAiLcESWg the strict orders of tj>e governor, ana n wask-n^Oi agreed tliat Sraoloff sJiould re^-ain there till llijinsrning.4.jin the morning, by day-light, Vrfioloff preparedkid adieu to the exiles. It was not without re,Elizabeth saw him about to depart, as she intendeddisclose her design to him, and insure his assistance'llthe prosecution of it, but did not like to do so before bparents. However, addressing him, she said, “you not come again, sir? Promise me,” added sb“ that to-day shall not prove the last in which I ambehold the saviour of my father !” Her father heariijthis, was seized with secret inquietude—he remind!her of the governor's orders, and assured her he coujnot disobey them twice, Smoloff here observed,was certain of obtaining from his father an exempt!iu favour of Ins own son, and that he wodld iihnieiately go to Tobolsk for the purpose. “ But,‘sir,” sij young Smoloff to Springer, “ while asking1 this fayfor'myself, shall I,say nothing to my father for yoi||Have you nothing,to ask ?”—“ Nothing, sir,” replijlSpringer, with an air of gravity. The youth casteyes mournfully down, 'and then repeated hisquestito Phedora, who expressed a. desire he might obtleave for herself and daughter '£o go every SundaySaimka to celebrate mass. Smdloff promised to fc- ward this request, and departed, carrying with him tilbenedictions of the family, and followed by the siLvows of Elizabeth.for Ids speedy return.Since the visit of Smolqff, Springer’s sadness Bassumed a more sombre character : the recollect^of this youth, so amiable, so generous, and courageincessantly presented to his mind the husbandcould have wished for his daughter, but his melanc!]y circumstances precluded the indulgence of sithoughts,;and,,instead of desiring, lie feared Smolreturn. Elizabeth, he thought, might he suscept:of tenderness,, and fall a prey to the secret sorrowa hopeless attachment. One night, plunged in thOF SIBERIA9enes, as ne sat by the fire, lie breathed deep sighs ;“flora, -witnessing his agitation, and fixing her eyesin him, she implored heaven to inspire her withh consolations as might obliterate the sense of hisfortunes; while Elizabeth indulged the hope, thativ would come when they would cease to weep :ng Smoloff, she thought, would assist her to com-3 her end, yet she dreaded the resistance of hermts. Resolving, however, to make her projectwn to them, she prayed to God they might listen topetition; and an opportunity soon occurring, sherested her father to permit her to ask him aquestions ; to which he consented. “ The other, said Elizabeth, “ when Smoloff enquired if youred nothing, you answered him, “ Nothing!” Now,Iso, that there is nothing which you want ?” “ No-g," replied Springer, “ that he could confer.”it who can give,” resumed Elizabeth, “ that whichwish ?” “ Equity, justice!” replied Springer,y father," demanded Elizabeth, “ where shall wethem?” “ Doubtless,’’said he, “ in heaven ; hut■arth, never—never !w On uttering these words, amy anxiety clouded his face, and he let his head fallveen his hands. After a pause Elizabeth renewedconversation : “ My father,” said she, “ to-day Iseventeen—it was upon this day I received fromthat existence which would be dear to me if Id devote it to you. O, my parents, pardon theness of your daughter : but for once, during hershe wishes to perform that towards you, whichhave never ceased to do respecting her since sheborn. Ah ! deign at length to impart to her bo-the secret which preys within your own ?” “ Whatou require of me ?” said Springer, “ I require,”she, “ that you would instruct me in whatever iterns me to learit, for the purpose of testifying mytion to you.” She now fell on her knees, andd her eyes with all the expressiveness of suppli-n. 'So grand, so noble a sentiment now beamed10THE EXILESfrom her eyes, filled with tears, and tne neroism of her Isoul shed something so divine on the humility of her Iattitude, that Springer instantly saw the part his Idaughter meant to take. Oppressed at heart, he could Ineither speak nor weep, but remained motionless as jif in the presence of an angel—and that spirit which Ikings could not intimidate, became weak at the voice flof his child, and could not resume its wonted strength. 11“ Why,’’ said Phedora to her husband, “ do you refuserto confide our secret to her ? Do you apprehend that ftthe soul of our Elizabeth will be affected to weakness by 1!the reverses we have seen !”—“ No,’’ replied Springer, IJ“ it is not her weakness that I fear !’’ Elizabeth, atthese words, found she was understood by her father, ftaud she pressed his hand in silence, that she might be 'comprehended by him only, for she knew, her mother’s 'tender heart, and wished to procrastinate the moment fof an afflicting explanation. “ Elizabeth,” said her;father, “you have this day effaced twelve years of ad-| t:versity.” “While such sentiments,” replied she,l“ are expressed here, never say that you cannot find?happiness on earth. Speak then, dear father, and let,me know your real name, what your country, and.what your griefs?” “Misfortunes,” said he, “are;now no more, my country is that where I reside with,,thee, my name the happy father of Elizabeth.”-—“ (), :my child !” interrupted Phedora, “ I can now love youstill more; you came to be the consolation of yourfather.” These words entirely overcame the remain-Iing resolution of Springer; he clasped his wife anddaughter in his arms, crying, “ God forgive me—Ihave been ungrateful, but punish me not!” When:the violence of this emotion had subsided, Springei1promised to give her what information she wishedifafter a few days.Elizabeth now began to try her strength upon theheaths at Ischim; in all weathers she sallied out, andaccustomed herself, by degrees, to brave the opposingeloments. The winters of Siberia are subject to sud-OF SIBERIA11Sen storms. One morning in January Elizabeth hadthe misfortune to he overtaken by a tempest of thisdescription. She had readied the Plain of Tombs,near a little chapel of wood, which she entered, and(knelt before the altar, offering her prayers to heaven(to spare her that she might effect the deliverance of: her parents.This very day Smoloff had returned from Tobolsk,i and his first care was to visit the exiles, where he wasi authorised to communicate to Phedora the indulgenceshe had asked. On entering, young Smoloff lookedin vain for Elizabeth. “Elizabeth!” exclaimed Phe-> dora, “ what is become of my Elizabeth ?” This fondimother had thus disclosed what Smoloff was most an¬xious to learn. Springer in silence took Ins staff, andI opened the door to go in search of his daughter.Smoloff instantly followed. As they entered the fo¬rest, Smoloff inquired on which side thefy should go ?“ Towards the great heath,” answered Springer ; “ itis tliither she goes every day, and I hope she has takenrefuge in the chapel.” They intrepidly proceeded ontheir way, bending and turning to avoid the fallingbranches and, the rocky fragments which the tempesthurled round their heads. At length they arrived atthe wooden chapel, where they found Elizabeth sweet¬ly asleep at the foot of the altar. Springer bent overthe face of his child—the young man modestly kissedher eyes, and then retired, as if not daring too nearlyto contemplate such divine innocence. Elizabethawoke, and threw herself into her father’s arms, ex¬claiming, “ Ah! I was convinced that you would -watch, over me." “Unhappy child,” said Springer.,“ into what agonies have you plunged your poor mo¬ll ther and myself!” “My father,” replied Elizabeth,“pardon me those tears, and let us hasten to efface,them.” Rising up, she saw Smoloff. “Ah!" criedshe with sweet surprise, “ all my protectors then watchaver me—God, my father, and you.” Smoloff wasaffected at these words; his heart was ready to escape.12THE EXILES“ You talked of returning to your mother,’' observedSpringer,'put think for yourself if that be possible.”“ Let us try,” replied she,; u I have greater strength 'than you would believe, and I am very glad you havean opportunity to ascertain it, and that you will seewhat I can do to console my mother.” Leaning on herfather and Smoloff, she proceeded homeward. Ontheir arrival, Phedora embraced all three, blessing Godthey were returned. Smoloff was much affected bywitnessing these tender and material cares whichElizabeth received, and he felt it impossible to loveElizabeth without being attached to her mother also—and the felicity of being the husband of that lovelygirl included the happiness of being the son of Phedora.The night now approached, the storm being past,Springer took the hand of Smoloff, and with mingledkindness and grief reminded him it was proper to go. ■Elizabeth now first discovered that he was visitingthem for the last time—“ What,” said she, “ shall Inever see you more ?” “ Ah !” replied Smoloff, with llgreat vivacity, “ as long as I remain free, and you con¬tinue to inhabit these deserts, I will not again quit*Saimka; I Mill see you at the church, in the forest,on the plain, and on the hanks of the river—I will seeyou everywhere.” From this Elizabeth foresaw thepossibilty of being enabled to confide to him her de¬sign, and beheld him depart with diminished pain.The next Sunday Elizabeth and her mother set outto Saimka, guided by their Tartar lad, and the weatherbeing fine, the distance appeared short. On enteringthe church, all eyes were turned towards tltem, buttheir regard was directed to the Supreme Object oftheir devotion. When Elizabeth raised her head,Smoloff was the first object that met her view ; he w asleaning against a pillar, with his eyes fixed on her.When quitting the church, Smoloff offered to takethem back in his sledge, to which Phedora gladly con¬sented ; hut not so Elizabeth, who was inwardly cha¬grined at not having an opportunity to whisper herOF SIBERIA(3wishes to Smoloff. The sledge soon reaenea tne bor¬ders of the forest, when, Smoloff declared he couldpi-oceed no further. Fhedora first alighted, and, whilegiving him her hand, said, “ Do you not walk heresometimes? At this juncture her daughter, whoalighted next, added, in a low and hurried tone ofvoice, “Not here; but to-morrow, in the little chapelon the plain." The next day she went to the chapel,but found not Smoloff there—she entreated of heaventhat her uncertainty might not be prolonged. Whilesupplicating relief from on high, Smoloff hastily arrived,and was'surprised to find Elizabeth there before him.When Elizabeth saw Smoloff, she exclaimed,—“ Ah,sir ! with what impatience have I waited for yourcoming.” These words, her expressive looks, themeeting itself,' the exactness of her keeping it, all con¬firmed the youth in the persuasion that she loved him ;so that he was about to declare his affection, had sheallowed him; but she prevented him by saying—“ M.de Smoloff, hear me ! I have need of you, in order tosave my father; promise me your support ? Thesesimple words confounded the young man; perplexedand confused, he betrayed his mistake, hut did not va¬lue Elizabeth the less. Falling on his knees, he sworeto obey. She. then proceeded as followsEversince I can recollect myself, my parents have entirelyengrossed my mind : their love has been my onlytreasure; their happiness has been the entire objectof my life. My parents are miserable : God has call¬ed me’ to relieve them, and sent you here to assist mein fulfilling this destiny. I desire to repair to St.Peterburgh, and solicit the pardon of my father!”His attitude here betrayed his surprise, as if he inclin¬ed to discourage her.—“ Smoloff,” resumed Elizabeth,“*1 cannot tell you at what period this idea first tookpossession of my soiil—it appears to me as though Ireceived it with my life—it is the first impression I canremember to have had, and it never has quitted me.It is this that always occupied me when near you, and14THE EXILESthat nas at present conducted me to you. This liasinspired me with a fortitude that fears neither fatiguenor rebukes, nor misery nor death.”Though the tender hopes of Smoloff had, during thisdiscourse, entirely vanished, still he was bewildered inadmiration, and the heroism of Elizabeth drew' into hiseyes tears scarcely less soothing than those of love.“ Happy,” cried he, “ ten thousand times happy am I,that you have chosen to reveal your plan to me, in or¬der to assist it, but you are not aw are of all the obsta¬cles to its execution.” “ There are only two obstacles,”said Elizabeth, “ I am ignorant of the route which Ishould take ; and I am not assured that my flightwould not injure my father. It is necessary, first,that you should direct me as to the road, point out thetowns through which I must pass, the hospitable es¬tablishments that will relieve me, and the most certainmeans of preferring my petition to the emperor: and,before all things, you must answer me, that your fatherwill not punish mine during iny absence.” Smoloffnow' informed Elizabeth, how the. emperor w'as irritatedagainst her father, and promised to communicate theinformation she wanted. On expressing his doubts ofher ability to travel b.'lOO versts on foot, without aid,she-.,replied, “that Being.who, sent me to succour myparents will not abandon me!” Af these wordsSmoloff shed tears, telling her she must wait till thefine days ere sh set out, as at present it was imprac¬ticable. “I know,” said he, “that in your breastthere is no place for any other sentiment than thatwhich now engrosses you ; but should ever the periodarrive when your parents, restored to their country,are themselves happy, and you content, then recollectthat in these deserts Smoloff saw' and loved you, andthat he preferred a residence here, though obscure andpoor, with Elizabeth, the daughter of an exile, beforeall the glories which the world could proffer !” Heiould utter no more, and Elizabeth stood motionless,'he now walked towards the door, and was about toOF SIBERIA15quit tlie chapei, while Smoloff exclaimed—“Elizabeth !have I offended you ? Ah ! I call God to witness,that though my heart heats with love towards you, itfeels also the most profound respect. How then haveI offended you V’-—You have not,” replied she mild¬ly ; “ hut I came here to speah to you only on behalfof my parents—now that you have listened to me, Ihave nothing more to say, and am going to them.”He then promised to confide to her the following Sun¬day at the church at Saimka, all the information anddocuments which she would require for the executionof her plan, and they parted.When Sunday came, Elizabeth and her motherwent to Saimka, but Smoloff was not there: an oldwoman informed them he was gone to Tobolsk, atwhich Elizabeth, changed colour, feeling much disap-,pointed. Two months elapsed without seeing Smoloft’at Saimka, and Elizabeth concluded he had forgottenher. One morning when Springer and his daughterwere in the garden, the young Tartar ran towardsthem, crying out—“ M. de Smoloff is here,”—“ Oh,my father,” said Elizabeth, “ thy happy, happy daugh¬ter will break thy chains'—God has called me to themdertaking, and sent Smoloff to clear the path for me !”On entering the room they were surprised to see aman about 50 years of age, in uniform, and attendedby officers. This was the governor of Tobolsk, who,m seeing Springer, bade his attendants withdraw,de now addressed Springer as follows :—“ Sir, sincethe moment you were sent here by the court ofRussia, this is the first time I have visited this circle :the occasion is pleasant to me, as it enables me totestify to an illustrious exile how much I sympathisewith his misfortunes.” Springer replied, he expectednothing from man—he did not wish for pity, nor hopefor justice, but could pass his days in these desertswithout complaining. The governor said, “ Ah, sir,for a man like you to live so far from your country, isa dreadful destiny.” “ It is yet more dreadful,” re-16THE EXILESplied Springer, ' to die so far from rt." Elizabethlooked over her mother’s shoulder to. ascertain if theair and physiognomy of the governor were expressiveof benevolence and goodness that she might speak tohim. The governor seeing her, said, “ Young lady,my son is known to yon—you have made an indelibleimpression on him.!’—“ Did he tell you, sir, that sheowes the life of her father to him ?” interrupted Phe-dora. “No madam, but he has told me she wouldgive her own for her father and for you.” “ Shewould,” said Springer, “ and her affection and tender¬ness are the only treasure now left.” The governorturned aside to conceal his emotions, and shortly in¬formed Elizabeth that his son had been commandedby the emperor to join the army assembling in Livonia ;at his departure he conjured me to convey this letterto you, but as I could not entrust it with another Ihave brought it myself.” Elizabeth blushed as shetook it. Elizabeth consequently gave the letter to her 1father to read aloud :—SMOLOFF’S LETTER. 1** One of the most lively regrets that I feel in quitting Saimka, madam, Jarises, from my not being able to explain to you the obligation which com¬pels me to leave you. I could neither see nor write to you, nor send theInstructions you demanded, without violating my father’s orders and risk¬ing his safety; though, perhaps, I should have done both, but for theexample you set me. When, however, I had so recently learned from yonhow much we owe to a father, I could not hazard the life of my own; yetI freely confess I did not love mV ditty as you love yours, and returned toTobolsk with a heavy heart. My father informs me that an order from th«Emperor appoints me to a station iOOO leagues hence, and that I must in¬stantly obey it. I am going: yon know not what I suffer.—Ah! I do notimplore of heaven that you should know.“ 1 have opened my heart to my father; t have seen his tears flow, as Itold him your design: I beljeve that he will see you., that he will go express¬ly to visit the circle of Isghirii. If he can, he will have this letter convey¬ed to you. Elizabeth. I depart more tranquil since I have placed you undtH*the protection of my father; but, I conjure you, do not avail yourself ofthat protection to set out before m\ return, which 1 hope will be in lessthan a year. I will conduct you to .St. Petersburgh; I will present you tothe Emperor; I will watch over "you and guard you during the tediousjourney. Do not fear my love for you, I will never mention it again: Iwill be only your friend. I will be your brother only ; and although I shallobey you with all the ardour of passion, I swear never again to speak alanguage to you which shall not be pure as innocence, as angels are—as youare.”Beneath was the following postscript, in the hand-writingof the Gp.vernor :f‘ No, madam; you ought not to set out with my son. I doubt not hishonour, but yours ought to be beyond all possibility of suspicion. In exhi¬biting to the court of Russia virtues too noble, too touching to be unsuoof Siberia17cess hi i, it mus-t not be said that you were conducted by your lover, andthus tarnish the sublimest act of filial piety that ever adorned human na¬ture. In your situation there are no other protectors but God and yourfather. Your father cannot follow you; God will not desert yoti. Religionwill lend you its torch arid its support—trust wholly to it: you know towhom I have granted permission that your cabin shall be accessible. Inconfiding this paper to you, .1 render you the arbiter of. my fate: for if; itwere disclosed, ir it were suspected that I had facilitated your departure, 1should be undone for ever. Hut, I have no fcars; 1 know'to whom 1 trust.I know all that may be expected from the intrepidity and virtue of a datigh-^ter, who has learned to devote her life to her father.”Whtfn the tetter was read, Elizabeth implemt her tnotherparticularly to consent to her undertaking the journey, butPhedora could not be brought to accede to her request. “ Mymother,” said Elizabeth, “ God has given me the power of re¬storing you to happiness, and do not oppose yourself to themission that heaven has confided to me. Dangers there arenone, and my; excursions among the heaths have inured meto the fatiguei of long walking, and to bear the cold. Is itinexperience you dread 1 I shall not be alone ; remember thewords and the letter of the governor. How many great men,precipitated from the pinnacle of glory, have implored pardonfor.themselves 1 Happier than all, I implore it only for myfather.”. Her noble firmness, that divine pride which glowedin her looks, as she offered to humble.herself for her parents,at last subdued Springer, and he felt willing that she shouldgo—-but, for the first time in her life, Phedora opposed theauthority of her husband in the exclaiming, “ Shall I let myElizabeth depart, to hear that she...perished with cold andwant hi the deserts !” Elizabeth now promised not to gowithout her mother’s consent ; “ but,” said she, “ perhapsGod will obtain from you what you deny my father and myself,and Oh, let us implore Him for his counsel, who is the lightthat guides, and the strength that sustains.” The next day.Springer , being alone pith his daughter, he related to her thehistory of his family and misfortunes, which filled her, mindwith astonishment, and her eyes with tears. “ My greatestcrime, said,he, “ was my devotedness to Poland, my dear, dearcountry, whose monarchs sprung from the. qame stock as my¬self—I defended her cause against the throe great powers, atthe head of a mere handful of noble Poles, under the walls ofWarsaw, but we were compelled to, submit—our feeble handscould not shake off our chains. The possessions of my an¬cestors were in that part which fell under the domination ofRussia, and for my exertions in defence of my country, I wastorn from my paternal estate , to suffer imprisonment and ba¬nishment. Phedora followed me, and the permission to heconfined with me was the only favour she could obtain, andwhat few happy moments I have enjoyed I owe to your motherand you my beloved daughter.”—Springer now returned herSmolotf’s letter, observing, “ if I am destined to owe to yourf 8THE EXILES*eai and intrepiditj the restoration of possesaioiia, v.-mcn i nolonger desire but to heap on you, this Iptter will call to me¬mory our benefactors ; your heart, Elizabeth, should he grate¬ful, and the alliance of virtue may honour even the btood ofkings.” The maiden pressing the letter to her heart, said,,l The remembrance of him who mourned for you will neverquit me.”—During several days no further mention was madeof Elizabeth’s journey. Her mother had not yet consented ;but from the melancholy of her looks, it was evident that inhor heard consent prevailed.On Sunday evening, the family were at prayers, when theyheard somebody knock with a staff, Springer opened the door :Phedora exclaimed, “ Ah ! my God! here is the person whosecoming was announced, and who is to take away our daughter !”She fell, weeping, with her face upon the table. The missio¬nary entered : a large white beard descended upon his breast,his countenance had a mournful expression, and he seemedbent with fatigues rather than with years.“ Sir,” said he, “ I enter your cabin with joy : the benedic¬tion of God is upon it. I Idtow that it contains wealth moreprecious than pearls and gold. I come to solicit a night’s re¬pose here.” Elizabeth eagerly placed a seat for him. “ Youngdamsel,” said he, “ you are far advanced in the career of vir¬tue, and in your very first steps you have left us far behind.”As he sat down, he "heard the sobs of Phedora. “ Christianmother,” said he to her, “ why weepest thou ? May you notsay that yon are happy among women 1 And if you shed tearsbecause virtue separates you from your child awhile, whatshould those mothers feel who are divided from their childrenby vice, and who lose them eternally !” “ Oh, my father ! ifI should never see her again.” “ You would see her again,”replied he warmly, “ in heaven, which is already her dowry ;but you will also' see her again on earth. The fatigues aregreat, but God will support her—He tempers the wind to theshorn lamb /”—After the evening repast, the good monk sur¬veyed them with tender compassion—he had seen many sor¬rows, and the art of soothing them was the study of his life.He related his long journeys, and the disasters he had witness¬ed, making the exiles to consider, that in comparison of suchmiseries' theirs were but light.—During the evening, the goodfather informed the exiles, that he was returning on foot intoSpain, his native country, and had yet to traverse throughRussia, Germany, and France. He had for years travelledover deserts, where he found no shelter but a cave, no pillowbut a stone, and no food but rice-flour and water. He thoughthimself at the end' of his labours on arriving among civilizedrations.Next morning, Elizabeth arose with the dawn, and foundOF SIBERIA19opportunity of Speaking in private with lather Paul—sheied on her knees the history of her life, a tender recitaljposed only of her affection for her parents. Her parentsnot know it was Her intention to quit them the next day.len evening, arrived, Elizabeth, on her knees, begged of her■ents to bless her. Her father approached while the tearsi down his cheeks : she stretched forth her arms—he un-jipstood this as her farewell ; the current of his feelings was“hcked—and placing his hands on the head of Elizabeth, he•ominendt'd her to God in his thoughts, but without the powerl articulating a word. The maiden then looked at her mo-er, and said-—“ And you, my mother ! will not you also blesslur child 2”—“ To-morrow”“answered she, in a tone of des-ir. « And why not to day also, my dear mother V’ “ Ah !exclaimed Phedora, rushing towards her, “ every day !rery dav 1” Elizabeth bent her head before her parents, who,ith united hands, upraised eyes, and trembling voices, pro-ounced that benediction which Heaven surely heard. Mean-diile the Missionary, with his crucifix in his hand, was offer-ig up his prayers some paces oil'—it was virtue praying foruocence !. It was now towards the end of May, when between the twi-ight and day-break there are scarce two hours of night,lizabeth being quite ready fm- the journey, awoke the Mis-ionary early in the morning, and to prevent the pain of pari¬ng with her parents, she proposed to Father Paul to set offbefore they arose, which lie acceded to. When a short wayfrom the cabin, she fell on her knees, imploring the Almightyto protect her parents. On turning round, she beheld herfather near her. “ Oh, my father,” said she, “ are you here 2”“ I am here,” said he, “ to bless you once again before youdepart,” and to the Missionary he observed—“ I entrust toyou a treasure that is dearer than my life. Depart together,and may guardian angels protect you !” A whole month wasconsumed in crossing the forest of Siberia. About 40 verstsfrom Tinouen they came to a wood, where some posts indi¬cated the termination of the government of Tobolsk. Theyproceeded to the city of Perm, which is environed withmarshes, presenting a melancholy aspect. They sometimesmet with empty cars, and obtained leave, for a few copecks,to ascend the vehicles. They reached the banks of the Kamaearly in September, and had nearly performed one half oftheir journey, when the health of the Missionary began todecline : he was frequently obliged to rest himself, and if hegot into a kibick, he could not hear the jolting. Arriving atSarapoul, the good man was so weak, he could proceed no fur¬ther. They were received at a miserable inn ; the flooring ofhis room trembled under the feet—the window had no glass,and there was neither chair nor bench. Elizabeth felt for thefirst tune aiarmra, and enquired for a aoctor, but mere jnone at Sarapoul. The people of the house taking no cone®for the dying man, she trusted to herself for aid. Night'®preaching, he grew worse, and Elizabeth could no Ion®refrain from tears.“ My child,” said he, “ you will shortly be exposed todifficulties, in travelling alone, in the midst of an incleme:season—but this will form your least danger—your greattimust be expected at the court. Ordinary courage may stru|gle against misfortune, yet prove unable to resist seductio:Your courage, however, is not of an ordinary cast ; and heftyour residence at court may not change you. But should arvillain there attempt to avail himself of your situation aiyour misfortune, in order to corrupt you, confide not in hpromises, nor be dazzled by his munificence. The fear of Gand the love of your parents are above all things—and neve!forget, that one single error would be death to those who gaviyou life.” “ Ah, my father,” interrupted Elizabeth, “do nolbe afraid.” “Tam not afraid,” said he, “your piety amivirtue demand full confidence. Now, my daughter, take fronl'.my garment the purse I received from the generous governorof Tobolsk ; keep his secret, for on that depends his life 1This money will convey you to Petersburgh ; when arrivedthere, go to the Patriarch, and mention Father Paul to him,Perhaps, not having forgotten me, he will grant you an asylumin a convent of females ; and will doubtless present your pe¬tition to the Emperor. At the point of death, I may now bepermitted to tell you, my daughter, that your virtue is great,and will receive a recompence here, as well as be rewarded inheaven.” He was now compelled to pause, and Elizabethwept in silence. He now raised his eyes to. heaven, and ap¬peared still in prayer when struck with death.Elizabeth’s cries brought several persons into the room,who asking her what was the matter, she pointed to her life¬less protector. The tlews being spread, many came to seewhat was passing, from met'e curiosity, and looked with sur¬prise at Elizabeth weeping over the dead monk. Some therewere who contemplated her with pity, while the proprietors ofthe inn seized the purse, which Elizabeth, in her grief, hadforgotten to secure. They told her, they would pay them¬selves, and return the residue. In a short time a number ofpriests came with their torches and attendants, and threw alarge pail over the dead body, at which Elizabeth uttered acry of grief. In the mean while the funeral dirges were be¬gun, and they placed the corpse in the coffin. As soon asElizabeth saw they were proceeding to remove the body, sheresolved to attend to the grave the remains of her friend.They proceeded with a torch of Straw in their hand, whileElizabeth walked slowly the most sincere mourner onOF SIBERIA,21tne i.ieiancnoiy occasion. The burying grouna was at the footof an acclivity on the right bank of the Kama, surrounded bythe ruins of a fortre ss. Elizabeth did not retire from thisplace till the close of the day—she wept and'prayed, and foundrelief. “ Father ! mother !” she exclaimed, “ fear nothing—•your child will not despair !” Thus ‘did she, in a state ofdestitution, console herself. Before Elizabeth left the spot,she pronounced a tender adieu to the ashes of the poor monk.The next day, when she wished to resume her journey, thelandlord gave-her three roubles, or abbut twelve, shillings, hndsixpence, assuring her it was all that remained in the monk’spurse. Elizabeth received the trifle with gratitude, thinkingit had descended from heaven, whither her friend had gone.“ Ah !” exclaimed Elizabeth, when about to pursue her soli¬tary journey, “ my guide and my support ! it is thus yourcharity survives you, and though you are no longer near me,it is that which still sustains me 1”She journeyed slowly on, and did not reach Cassan tilltowards the beginning of October. There was much iceaccumulated on the shores of the Volga, so as to render itspassage dangerous. The watermen would not venture overwithout a considerable reward, nor would any passengerattempt to go with them. Elizabeth wished to enter one ofthe boats, but they pushed her aside as if she were insane.She implored them, in the name of God, to assist her in cross¬ing the river : ‘ I have come from Tobolsk, and am going toPetersburgh to solicit my father’s pardon from the Emperor,and have so little money, that should I remain fifteen dayslonger at Cassan, I should have none left for the remainder ofmy journey.” These words affected one of the boatmen, whosaid he would try to get her over. She entered his boat, whenhe rowed about one half across the river, hut not being ableto get further, he took her on his shoulders, and walked alongthe ice, with an oar, till he reached the opposite side of theVolga. Elizabeth thanked him in the fulness of her heart,and drew forth her purse to reward him ; but he would notaccept of any thing from her little stock—he threw her a pieceof money to increase it, and hurried to his boat, exclaiming—“ God watch over thee, my girl !”During her journey, Elizabeth sometimes saw wretched’beings, chained two and two, who were being coveyed to themines of Nertshink, to labour till death. She was overtakenby a tempest ; and when stopped by a band of robbers, sheshewed them the boatman’s piece of money, being all she hadthen left: she was unharmed, one of the party exclaiming—-“ Leave her alone, for God is near her.” Elizabeth now has¬tened on till she came to a convent of nuns, to whom she toldher tale of sorrow. Here she found a temporary asylum andassistance ; and after returning Iter grateful thanks she set22THE EXILESoff on tne road to Moscow, which she found crowded withpeople, in carriages, sledges, and on foot. Meanwhile theringing of bells was heard, and on every side the name of theEmperor sounded in the ears of Elizabeth. On enquiring thecause pf all this, she was informed, it was on account of theEmperor’s entry into Moscow, where he is to be crowned.Elizabeth now felt overjoyed, while she thought the time wasnear when she hoped to obtain from the Emperor her father’spardon.—Elizabeth entered the immense capital of Muscovyin March, 1801, believing herself at the end of all her trou¬bles, and not imagining that she could encounter fresh cala¬mities. As she proceeded along the city, she rested for amoment in the great walk, The people walking there talkedmuch of the coronation. The tumult was great towards theKremlin, where large fires were lighted—Elizabeth approach¬ed one of them, and sat down timidly by the side of it. Ex¬hausted with cold and fatigue, the joy which filled her heartin the morning was turned to melancholy, for, in traversingthe streets, she could no where find an asylum. She knockedat the doors of some of the meaner habitations, and was everywhere repulsed. The hope of making considerable gain, du¬ring the festival, had steeled the heart of the pettiest iimkeeperof the place. She consequently returned to the fire in theKremlin. She wept in silence, and had not strength to eat abit of bread given her by an old woman.The crowd began to diminish, and the fires to decay ; whenthe guard of the palace-gates came to her, asking her why sheremained there. The maiden said she had come from Tobolsk,to solicit from the emperor her father's pardon, and had per-formed the journey oil foot, and, being without money, noEerson would receive her. The soldiers accused her of false-ood, and the girl being alarmed, wished to escape, but thesoldiers held her. Many people coming up, expressed theirdisapprobation of the severity of the soldiers, while Elizabethswore by the name of heaven that she had told the truth, andbegged they would save her til! she had accomplished hererrand. Her appeal reached every heart, and a lodging wasoffered by an innkeeper, who was touched with pity lor her.■ The soldiers offering no further opposition, she followed himto his house, where she was most kindly treated. The land¬lord offered to assist her in the accomplishment of her pur¬pose on the following day, when the Emperor would becrowned in the church of Assumption. In the morning, dis¬charges of artillery, beating of drums, and shouts ot joy an¬nounced the commencement of the day’s festivity. Elizabeth,di’essed in clothes her hostess had lent her, and leaning on thearm of honest Rossi (her host) proceeded till they entered thechurch where Alexander was to be crowned. Seated on abrilliant throne, surmounted with a rich canopy, were seenOF SIBERIA.23li tiie Emperor and liis august bride. The princess received!i from his hands the imperial crown, and with this superb pledgeof their union girded her modest brow. Opposite to them,the venerable Platoff, the patriarch of Moscow, remindedi Alexander, from the chair of truth, of the duties belonging tekings, and the responsibility which God imposed on them, ascountervailing the power and splendour he bestowed. “ Mas¬ter of the greatest empire in the universe,” said he, “ thouwho art about to swear- that thou wilt watch over the destiniesof a kingdom containing one-fifth of the globe, never forgetthat thou hast to answer before God for the fate of so manymillions of men, and that any injustice done to the least amongthem, which thou mightest prevent, will be visited upon theeat the day of judgment.”Just after Alexander had pronounced the oath, by whichhe bound himself to debate his existence to the happiness ofi his people, Elizabeth could no longer restrain herself ; butbursting through the crowd with a supernatural energy, she1 rushed towards the throne, exclaiming—“ PARDON 1 PAR-I DON 1” This cry, which interrupted the ceremony, occa-j| sioned a considerable murmur, and some guards draggedElizabeth out of the church, in spite of her friend. Alexan¬der, however, on such an occasion, wished not to be imploredin vain—he therefore sent an officer to know what the womanRanted. The officer hastened along, saw her, and.knew her,ind exclaimed, “ It is Elizabeth.” She looked at him inSilence, and recognized Smoloff—they rushed into each other’sarms. He now proposed to present her to the Emperor him¬self, and conducted her back to the church at the very momentthe imperial procession was departing through the great door,Directly the Emperor came near, Smoloff approached hint,nolding Elizabeth by the hand, and throwing himself on hisknees, while she did the same, exclaimed—“ Sire ! deign t<hear me—hear the voice of misfortune and of virtue. Yoi.now behold the daughter of the unhappy Stanislaus Potowsky,arrived from the deserts of Ischim, where her parents havelanguished in exile for twelve years. Alone, she has per¬formed the journey on foot, braving every misery to comehero, and implore at your feet her father’s pardon !” Eliza¬beth raised her supplicating hand?, repeating, “ My father’spardon !” There was a unanimous cry of admiration amongthe crowd. Alexander was himself struck, and though he had*trong prejudices against ;Stnnislaus Potowsky, they nowvanished. “ Your father is free,” said he ; “I grant you Inspardon.” Elizabeth could hear no more—at the very soundof paudon, a sense of joy overpowered her, and she fell sense¬less into the arms of Smoloff. She was borne away throughthe crowd of people, who applauded the virtue of the heroine,and the clemency of the Monarch, to the house of the good24aXILES OF SIBERIA.James Rossi, where she recovered her senses, and where thefirst object she recognized was Smoioff, kneeling at her side.In a little iime she littered the names of her father and mo¬ther—“We shall behold them again,” said she, “we shallenjoy their happiness.” These words penetrated to the youngman’s soul. Several days passed before the pardon could beauthenticated. One morning Smoioff visited Elizabeth earlierthan usual, when he presented a parchment to her, sealed withthe imperial seal. “ Ilere,” said he, “ is the Emperor’s orderto my father to restore yours to liberty.” Elizabeth seizedthe parchment, pressed it to her lips, and covered it withtears. “ But this is not all,” added Smoioff, “ he algo restoreshim to his rank and wealth ; the courier who carries this or¬der sets off to-morrow, and I have to accompany him.” “ Andshall not, I accompany him too ?” “ Doubtless,” replied Smo¬ioff, “ what other mouth than thine has the right of tellingyour father that he is free ? Certain of your intention, 1mentioned it to the Emperor, and he said, to-morrow youmight set off.” She looked at Smoioff, sayirg, “ Ever sinceI first saw yon, you have been the author of all my benefits.”Before she left Moscow, our heroine recompensed the hospi¬tality of Rossi ; nor did she, in passing the Volga, forget thebenevolent boatman, whom she rewarded with a hundredrubles. When she arrived at Sampoul, she visited the graveof the venerable missionary ; she now felt as if the poor monk,from the height of heaven, rejoiced to see her happy. Tobolskbeing the’next stage, Smoioff conducted her to his father,from whom she received a most kind reception, and high com¬mendation for her magnanimity. She next went with Smoioffto visit her parents. O, how her heart throbbed as she crossedthe forest : seeing her paternal cabin, she springs forward—she hears the \ioices which she knew—liar heart beats—herhead swims—she ealled her parents—the door opened, and shefgll into their arms. “There she is,” cri d Smoioff, “shebrings your papdon with her11-she has tri’ mphed over all—sheJuts obtained all.” They were lost in a delirium of joy.Smolotf fell at the feet of th? exiles and said, “ Elizabeth hashitherto ealled me her brother, but, at your knees, perhaps,she will allow me to aspire to another name.” Her parentsreadily consented to the union, pouring their blessings on thavirtuous pair, while Smoioff leaned his face, bathed with tears)on the lap of Elizabeth, not thinking that, even in heaven, itwas possible to he happier than he was ; meanwhile the dam¬sel felt eijual felicity in her good fortune.