cheap tracts.Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. XV.SHORTSTORIESFOR.LittleFolks-Little Tales,CALCULATEDTo excite Juvenile Minds to the Loveand Practice of Virtue.c^ram up Q Child in the way he Jhould go, and whenhe is old he will not Depart from it.Prov.DUNBAR:Frinteil by G. Miller :—atwhofe Shop may be had a variety ofPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Catechifms, Sec.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.fOF SCOTLANDSHORT STORIES,Delightful tajk! to rear the tender thought;"To teach the young idea how to Jhoot,5To pour the frejlo injlruhlion o'er the mind.To breathe th' enliv'ning fpirit, and to jixThe gen'rous purpofe in the glowing breajl.dffeclion to Parent?.N amiable youth was lamenting, interms of the fincereft grief, the deathof a moft affe&ionate parent. His com¬panion endeavoured to confole him by thereflection, that he had always behaved tothe decealed with duty, tendernefs and re-'fpett. So I thought, replied the youth,whilft my parent was living ; but now I re¬collect with pain and forrow, many inftancesof difobedience and negleCt, for which, alas!it is too late to make atonement.MARK that parent hen ! faid a fatherto his beloved fan. With what an-f o RYOUNG FOLKS‘jLendernefs to Mothers.. (3}i:| xious care does Hie call together her off-') Ijjfpring, and cover them with her expandedwings ? The kite is hovering in the air, anddilappointed of his prey, may perhaps dartupon the hen herfelf, and bear her off inhis talons !4Does not this fight fugged: to you thetendernefs and affection of your mother ?Her watchful care protected you in the help-lefs period of infancy, when fhe nourifUedyou with her milk, taught your limbs tomove, and your tongue to lifp its unformedaccents. In childhood fhc has mourned o-over your little griefs ; has rejoiced in yourinnocent delights ; has adminiftered to youthe healing balm in ficknefs; and has in-ftilled into your mind the love of trutX, ofvirtue, and of wifdom. Oh ! cherilh everyfentiment of refpeft for fuch a mother. Shemerits your warmeft gratitude, efteem andveneration.!Parental Affection.EARLY in the morning, the man acthe maft head of the Carcafe, gave no¬tice, that three bears were making theirway very faff over the ice, and that theywere directing their courfe towards the fhip.They had without queftion, been invited by( 4 )the Icent of the blubber of the fea-horfeikilled a few days before, which the menhad fet on fire, and which was burning onthe ice at the time of their approach. Theyproved to be a fhe bear and her two cubs;;but the cubs were nearly as large as the dam.They ran eagerly to the fire, and drew out:from the flames part of the flefli of the fea-horie, that remained unconfumed, and eattfiit voracioufly. The crew from the fhipthrew great lumps of the flefh of the fea-horfe, which they had flill left, upon the ice,which the old bear fetched away lingly, laidevery lump before her cubs as (he broughtit, and dividing it, gave each a (hare, re-ferving but a fmall portion to herfelf. Asihe was fetching away the laft piece, theylevelled their mufkets at the cubs, and (hotthem both dead ; and in her retreat theywounded the dam, but not mortally.It would have drawn tears of pity from |jany but unfeeling minds, to have markedthe afleclicnate concern exprefled by thispoor bead, in the dying moments of her ex¬piring young. Though (Ire was forely woun¬ded, and could but juft crawl to the place jwhere they lay, (he carried the lump offle(h (lie had fetched away, as (he had doneothers before, tore it in pieces, and laid itdown before them ; and when (he faw that:theyrefufed to eat, (he laid her paws firft upon7Tilne, and then upon the other, and endeav¬oured to raife them up : all this while it wasmtiful to hear her moan. When fhe foundihe could not flir them, (lie went off, andsjvhen ihe had got at fome diftance looked: back and moaned; and that not availing;ier to entice them away, (he returned and.imelling round them, begun to lick theirji/ounds. She went off a fecond time as be¬fore, and having crawled a few paces, lookedgain behind her, and for fome time floodmoaning. But Hill her cubs not rihng to’follow her, (he returned to them again, and'Jivith figns of inexpreflible foundnels, wentllound one, and round the other, pawing^hem, and moaning. Finding at laft that!hey were cold and lifelefs, (he raifed herlead towards the (hip, and growled a curfejpon the murderers, which they returned) with a volley of mufket balls. She fell be¬tween her cubs, and died licking theiridvounds.) Can you admire the maternal affedlion of3 the bear, and not feel in your heart theiwarmed emotions of gratitude, for theyffronger and more permanent tendernefs,) you have fo long experienced from your pa-t rents?t 6 )xThe Folly of cryitig upon Trifling occafions. 5A LITTLE girl, who ufed to weep bit¬terly for the moft trifling hurt, wasone day attacked by a furious dog Hercries reached the lervants of the family';but they paid little attention to what theywere io much accuftomed to hear. Jt hap¬pened however very fortunately that a coun¬tryman patTed by, who with great huma¬nity, refcued the child from the devouringteeth of the dog.Silence and Referve reproved.SOPHRON was frequently the compan¬ion of Eirphronius in his various jour¬neys. He was a youth of obfervation, butindulged too much a natural referve ot tem¬per. His brothers and filters complainedthat he who fo often enjoyed amufemcntLimfelf, fhould contribute fo little to tilegeneral entertainment of the family. Atiirft they intended to petition their fatherto carry him no more abroad ; but a good-natured ftratagem anfwered better the pur-pofe of reproof. They agreed that eachihould pwfuc, for a few days, a condudl fi-milar to that of Sophron. One vilited theniagnificeniMufeum ofMr. Lever atAlkring-ton ; another went to a very diverting Co->1medy ; and a third failed, with a party, up-non the Duke of Bridgwater’s Canal, and) viewed all the wonders of that flupendous11undertaking. But when they returned home,ithe chearful communications of friendfhipliwere fuppreffed ; and the ufual eagernetsito difclole all which they had feen, was con-verted into hlence and referve. No fociali; converfe enlivened the evening hours, andi jthe Iprightlinefs of youth gave place to mute11 folemnity. Sophron remarked the changeii with furprife and lolicitude. He felt the<1 lols of that gaiety and unreferved intercourlc,'ji which he feidom promoted, but of whichH he loved to participate. And when the dejl| fign of his brothers and lifters were cxplain-|| ed to him, he candidly acknowledged, andr; promifed to amend his fault-.r:'The Honour and Advantage of a constantadherence to Truth.PETRARCH, a celebrated Italian Poet,who flourifhed about four hundredyears ago, recommended himfelf to the con¬fidence and aftedtion of Cardinal Coionna,in whole family he refided, by his candourand ftridt regard to truth. 'A violent quar¬rel occurred in the houftiold of this noble¬man, which was carried fo far that they hadC s )courfe to arms. The Cardinal wiftied tcknow the foundation of this affair; and thathe might be able to decide with juftice, heaffembled all his people, and obliged themto bind themfelves by a mofl folemn oathon the Gofpels, to declare the whole truth.Every one, without exception, fubmit-ted to this determination.; even the Bi~fhop of Luna, brother to the Cardinal, was;;not excufed. Petrarch, in his turn, prefent-ing himfelf to take the oath, the Cardinal•elofed the book, and faid, “As to you Pet-“ rarch, your word is fufEcient.,,A Story fimilar to this is related of Ze-nocrates, an Athenian Philofopher, who li¬ved three hundred years before Chrift, andwas educated in the fchool of Plato. Thepeople of Athens entertained fo high an o-pinion of his probity, that one day when heapproached the altar to confirm by an oath :the truth of what he had afferted, the judges !unanimoufly declared his word to be fuih- |cient evidence.Cruelty to bisects..JACOBUS indulged himfelf in the cruel Ientertainment of toi curing and killing 1ihes. He tore off their wings and legs, andthen watched with pleafure their impotent( 9 >ij efforts to efeape from him. Sometimes he! collected a number of them togethar, andcrufhed them at once to death ; glorying,like many a celebrated hero, in the devafta-tion he committed. His brother remonflra-ted with him, in vain, on this oarbarous con-dud. He could not perfuade him to be¬lieve that fhes are capable of pain, and havea right, no Ids than ourfelves, to life, liber¬ty, and enjoyment. The figns of agony,which when tormented, they exprefs by thequick and various contortions of their bodies,he neither underflood nor would attend to.Alexis had a microfcope; and he defiredJacobus, one day, to examine a mod beau¬tiful and furprifing animal. Mark, faid he,j! how it is ftudded from head to tail withblack and filver, and its body all over befctwith the mod curious briftles ! The headcontains a pair of lively eyes, encircled withfilver hairs; and the trunk confids of twoparts, which fold over each other. Thej. whole body is ornamented with plums and; decorations, which furpafs all the luxuries,■ of drels, in the courts of the greateft princes,f Jacobus was pleated and afloniflied with| what he faw, and impatient to know thename and properties of this wonderful ani¬mal. It was withdrawn from the magni¬fier ; and when offered to his naked eye,proved to be a poor fly which had been thevudim of his wanton cruelty.-( 10 )Selfish Sorrow -reproved.IT was a holiday in the month of June, andAlexis had prepared himself to set out,with a party of his companions, upon a littlejourney of pleasure. But the' Iky lowered,the* clouds gathered, and he remained forsome time in anxious suspense about his ex* |pedition ; which at laft was prevented byheavy and continued rain. The disappoint;- ^ment overpowered his fortitude ; he burd;into tears ; lamented the untimely changeof weather; and sullenly refused all conso¬lation.In the evening the clouds were dispersed;the sun fhone with unusual brightness ; andthe face of nature seemed to be renewed invernal beauty. Euphronius carried Alexisinto the fields. The ftorm of paffion in hisbread; was now Rilled ; and the serenity orthe air. the mufic of the feathered songflers,the verdure of the meadows, and the sweetperfumes which breathed around, regaled e-very sense, and filled his mind with peaceand joy.Don’t you remark, said Euphronius, thedelightful change which has suddenly takenplace in the whole creation. Recoiled: theappearance of the scene before us yefierday.The gtound tyas then parched with a long( 11 >drought ; the flowers hid their droopingI heads; no fragrant odours were perceived;, . and vegetation seemed to cease. To whatj cause mud we impute the revival of nature?! '; —To the rain v/hich fell this morning, re¬plied Mexis, with a modeft confuiion. Hewas ftruclc with the selfifhness and folly ofhis conduct; and his own bitter reflectionsanticipated the reproofs of Euphronius.The Fallacy of External Appearance.IS there any hidden beauty, said Alexisto Euphronius, in that dufky, ill fhap-ed flone, which you examine with so muchattention ? I am admiring the wonderful( properties, not the beauty, replied Euph-if ronius, which it poflefles. It is by means■ of this ftone that the mariner fleers his track¬less course through the vaft ocean ; andwithout it the spices of the Eaft, the minesof Peru, and all the luxuries which com¬merce pours into Europe, would for everhave remained unknown.—The curioflty ofAlexis was excited, and he was impatientto learn in what wonderful manner such ad¬vantages could be derived from a subftance,apparently of so little valuel—This magnetor loadftone, for it is known, by both names,said Euphronius, imparts to iron the pro¬perty of settling itself, when nicely balanced.( I* )in a dire&ion nearly North and South. Thefailor is. therefore furnifhed with an unerringguide in the midft of the ocean. For whenhe faces the North, the Eaft and Weft arereadily afcertained, the former lying to hisright, and the latter to his left hand. Andfrom thefe four points, all the fubdivilionso! the mariner’s compafs are formed. Theiigure of a ftar, which you fo often drawupon paper, will give you a clear idea ofthe compafs. Make yourfeif a mafter of it;and from the prefent inftance of your wantof knowledge, learn a becoming modeftyin the judgements which you form concern-!ing the produiftions of nature. The wholecreation is the workmanfhip of an Omni¬potent Being; and though we cannot alwaystrace the marks of harmony, beauty, o,r ufe-fulnefs, yet doubtlefs to the eye of a fupe-rior intelligence, every part of it difplays infal¬lible wifdom, and unbounded goodnefs.JVe too often judge of Men by the Splendour,and not by the Merit of their API ions.ALEXANDER demanded of a Pirate, jwhom he had taken, by what righthe infefted the Teas ? By the fame right, re¬plied he boldly, that you enfkve the world. IBut I am called a robber, becaufe I haveonly one fmall veffel ; and you are fiyled a:: conqueror becaufe you command greatil fleets and armies.■cIhe Pert and the Ignorant are prone toRidicule.A GENTLEMAN, of a grave deport¬ment, was bufily engaged in blowingbubbles of foap and water, and was atten-J tively obferving them as they expanded andburft in the funihine. A pert youth fell in¬to a fit of loud laughter at a figut lo ftrange,; and which (hewed, as he thought, fuch follyt and infanity.—Be afiiamed, young man, faidone who pnffed by, of your rudenefs and: ignorance. You now behold the greateft[ Philofopher of the age, Sir Ifaac Newton,inveftigating the nature of light and coloursby a feries of experiments, no lefs curiousthan ufeful, though you deem them childtfhand infignificant.Idlenefs' and Irrefolution.HORACE, a celebrated Roman Poet,relates that a countryman, who want¬ed to pafs a river, flood loitering on the(banks of it, in the foolifh expectation thata current fo rapid would foon difcharge itswaters. But theftream (till flowed, increaf-ed perhaps by frefh torrents from the mour;-(14)^ains; and it muft for ever flow, becaufe ,the fources from which it is derived are in-exhauftible.Thus the idle and irrefolute youth trifles rover his books, or wades in play his pre¬cious moments; deferring the talk of im- >provement, which at fird is eafy to accom-plifh, but which will become more and morel idifficult, the longer it is negie&ecb-Sloth contrajled with Indujlry.' yTHESloth is an animal of South A.merica, S'and is fo ill formed for motion, that afew paces are often the journey of a week ;and fo indifpoled to move, that he neverchanges his place, but when impelled by thefevered dings of hunger. He lives upon theleaves, fruit, and flowers of trees, and oftenon the bark itfelf, when nothing befides isleft for his fubfiflence. As a large quantity |of food is neceflary for his fuppot t, he gen¬erally drips a tree of all its verdure in lefsthan a fortnight. And being then dedituteof food, he drops down, like a iifelefs mafs,from the branches to the ground. After re¬maining torpid fome time, from the (hockreceived by the fall, he prepares for a journeyto forae neighbouring tree, to which hecrawls with a motion almod imperceptible.At length arrived, he alcends the trunk,and devours with famiflied appetite, what-< M )comumingever the branches afford. *3/ wfthe bark he foon deflrop the life of the tree,and thus the fource is loft from which hisfuftenance is derived.Such is the milerable ftate of this floth-iful animal. How different are the comfortsand enjoyments of the induftrious Beaver ?This creature is found in the northern partsof America, and is about two feet long andnone foot high. The figure of it fomewhatirefembles that of a rat. In the months ofJune and July the Beavers affemble, andij form a fociety which generally confilts ofrjmore than two hundred. They always fixiftheir abode by the fide of a lake or river; andijin order to make a dead water in that partI which lies above and below, they ereftwithI incredible labour, a dam or pier, perhapsifourfcore or a hundred feet long, and ten orI twelve feet thick at the bafe. When thisfidike is compleated, they build their feveral[ apartments, which are divided into three:l ftories. The firft is below the level of therr mole, and is for moft part full of water.The walls of their habitations are perpen¬dicular, and about two feet thick : If anywood projedt from them, they cut it off withtheir teeth, which are more ferviceable than! paws. And by the help of their tails, they<j plaifter all their works with a kind of5}j mortar, which they prepare of dry grafs andday mixed together. In Auguft or Sep-( 16 )tember they begin to lay up their ftores o£food ; which connfl of the wood of the birch,the plane, and of fome other trees= Thusthey pals the gloomy winter in eafe andplenty.These two American animals, contrafted jwith each other, afford a moll flriking pic- |ture of the bleffings of induftry, and the!penury and wretchednefs of dothHonejly and GenerojityA POOR man, who was door-keeper to!a houfe in Milan, found a purfe whichcontained two hundred crowns. The manwho had loft it, informed by a public ad-'vertifement, came to the houfe, and giving:fufficient proof that the purfe belonged toihim, the door-keeper reftored it. Full ofjoy and gratitude, the owner offered hisbenefaflor twenty crowns, which he abfolute*’ly refufed. Ten were then propofed, andlafterwards five : but the door-keeper ftillicontinuing inexorable, the man threw hispurfe upon the ground, and in an angrytone cried, I have loft nothing, nothing at:all, if you thus refufe to accept of a gratuity.”'The door-keeper than contented to receive:five crowns, which he immediately diftribu-'ted amongft the poor.'itc 17 )Intemperance. ,GYRUS, when a youth, being at thecourt of his grandfather Cambyfes,undertook one day to be the cup-bearer attable. It was the duty of this officer to taftethe liquor before it was prefented to theking. Cyrus, without performing this cere¬mony, delivered the cup in a very gracefulmanner to his grandfather. The king re¬minded him of his omiffion, which he im¬puted to forgetfulnefs. No, replied Cyrus,I was afraid to tafte, becaufe I apprehendedthei e was poifon in the liquor: For not longfince, at an entertainment which you gave, Iobferved that the lords of your court, afterdrinking of it, became noify, quarrelfome,ana frantic. Even you, Sir, teemed to haveforgotten that you were a king.A Generous Return jar an Injury.WHEN the great Conde commandedthe Spanifh army, and laid fiege toone of.the French towns in Flanders, afoldier being ill treated by a general officer>and ftruck feveral times with a cane, torfome difrefpedtful words he had let fall, an-fwered very coolly, that he fhould foon makehim repent of it. Fifteen days afterwards,the fame general officer ordered the colonel( 18 )of the trenches to find a bold and intrepid,fellow, to execute an important enterprife^for which he promifed a reward of a hundredpiftoles. The foldier we are fpeaking of,who paired for the braveft in the regiment,offered his fervice, and gofng with thirty ofhis comrades, which he had the liberty tomake choice of, he difcharged a very haz-_ardous cdmmiffion, with incredible courageand good fortune. Upon his return thegeneral officer highly commended him, andgave him the hundred piftoles which he hadpromifed. The foldier prefently diftributedthem amongft his comrades, faying he didnot ferve for pay, and demanded only thatif his late a&ion feemed to deferve any re-compenfe, they would make him an officer.And now, fir, adds he to the general officer,who did not know him, I am the foldier youabided fo much fifteen days ago, and I thentold you l would make you repent of it.The general officer in great admiration, andmelting into tears, threw his arms aroundhis neck, begged his pardon, and gave hima commiffion that very day.The PaJJions fhould he governed by Reafon.SOPHRON and Alexis liad frequentlyheard.Euphronius mention the experi¬ment of hilling the waves with oil, made byhis friend Doctor Franklin. They were im-C 19 )patient to repeat it; and a briik >vind prov*ling favourable to the trial, they haftened,one evening to a (beet of water in the plearliiiire grounds of Eugenio, near Hart Hill.! The oil vvas fcatiered upon the pool, andfpread itfelf inft.intly on all fides, calmingtthe whole furface of the water, and reflectingthe moft beautiful colours. Elated withfuc-efs the youths returned to Euphronius,tjto enquire the caufe of fuch a wonderful ap¬pearance. He informed them that the windblowing upon water which is covered with acoat of oil. Aides over the lurface of it. andproduces no friCtion that can raife a wave.Bur this curious phtlofophical fad, faid he,fuggefts a moft important moral refledion.Wien you tuffer yourfelves to be ruffled bypaffion, yout minds refemble puddle in alorm* But reaion, if you hearken to hervoice, will then, like oil poured upon thewater, calm the turbulence within you, andxellore you to lerenity and peace.Scepticifm condemned.SOPBRON aflerted that he could hearthe flighteft fcratch of a pin at the dis¬tance ot. ten yards. It is impojftble, faidAlexis, and immediately appealed to Eu-phronius, who -as walking with them.Though i don’t believe, replied Euphronius,.C 20 )that Sophron’s ears are more acute thanyours, yet 1 difapprove of your hafty decifionconcerning the impojjibility of what you tolittle underiland. ^ou are ignorant of thenature of found, and of the various meansby which it may be encreafed, or quickenedin irs progrefs; and modefty tbould leadyou, infuch a cafe to fufpend your judgmenttill you have made the proper and necetfaryinquiries. An opportunity now prefems it-felt, which will afford Sophron the iatistac-tion he defires. Place your ear at one end ofthis long rafter of dale timber, and I willfcratch the other end with a pin. Alexisobeyed, and diftindtly heard the found;which being conveyed through the tubes ofthe wood, was augmented in loudnefs, as in, a ipeaking trumpet, or the horn of thehuntfman.Scepticism and credulity are equally un¬favourable to the acquifuion of knowledge.The latter anticipates, and the former pre¬cludes all enquiry. One leaves the mindfatisfied with error, the other with ignorance.«llt!Lying.MENDACULUS was a youth of goodparts, and of amiable dilpofitions ;but by keeping bad company he had con-traded, in an extreme degree, the odious( 21 )labit of lying. His word was fcarcely ever[relieved by his friends; and he was oftenMufpe&:ed of faults, becaufe he denied theriommiffion of them, and punifhed for offen¬ces, of which he was convicted only by hisiiiffertions of innocence. The experience ofj everyday maiflfefted the difadvantages whichne luffered from the habitual violation offroth. He had a garden flocked with theI:hoicefl flowers; and the cultivation of itvas his favourite amufement. It happened:hat the cattle of the adjoining pafture had.broken down the fence ; and he found themtrampling upon, and deftroying a bed ofitfine auriculas. He could not drive thefeiravagersaway, without endangering the ftillplnore valuable productions of the next par-nerre; and he haftened to requeft the al-lliftance of the gardener. “ You intend tomake a fool of me,” faid the man, who re¬futed to go, as he gave no credit to the re-Ution of Mendaculus.One frofty day, his father had the misfor¬tune to be thrown from his horfe, and toafraCture his thigh. Mendaculus was prelent,md was deeply affeCted by the accident, but.bad notftrength to afford the neceffary help,I He was therefore obliged to leave him, in; his painful condition on the ground, which- vas at that time covered with fnow; and,: vith all the expedition in his power, he rodeo Manchefter, to folicit the aid of the firfti'( 22 )Jbenevolent perfon he fhould meet with.His chara&er as a liar was generally knownfew to whom he applied paid attention tahis ftory ; and no one believed it. Afteilofing much time in fruitlefs entreaties, h{returned with a forrowful heart, and witfc'his eyes bathed in tears, to tl« place wherethe accident happened. But his father watremoved from thence : A coach fortunatelypaffed that way; he was taken into it, andjconveyed to his own houfe, whither Men*daculus foon followed him.A lusty boy, of whom Mendaculus hactold fome falfhoods, often way-laid him ashe went to fchool, and beat him with great*feverity. Gonfcious of his ill defert, Mendaculus bore, for fome time, in filence hischaftifement; but the frequent repetition oiit at laft overpowered his refolution, and h«complained to his father of the ufage which’he met with. His father, though dubiouiof the truth of this account, applied to theparents of the boy who abufud him. But hecould obtain no redrefs from them, and onlyreceived thefollowingpainful anfwer: “Youi jfon is a notorious liar, and we pay no regard-.,to hisaffertions.” Mcndaculus was therefore!obliged to fubmit to the wonted correctiontill full fatisfaCtion had been taken by hiiiantagonlft for the injury^which he had fuf [,lained.Such were the evils in which this unforttanate youth almoft daily involved himfelf( 23 )6y the habit of lying. He was fenfible ofis milconduft, and began to refled:, uportil with feiioulnefs and contrition. Refolutions■ famendmentfucceeded to penitence; het t a guard upon his words; fpoke little,ad always with caution and referve ; andt e foon found, by fweet experience, thati uth is more eafy and natural than fallhood.y degrees the love of it became predomi-nnt in his mind ; and fo facred at. length. d he hold veracity to be, that he fcrupled:;;ten the leaft jocular violation of it. Thisjiippy change reftored him to the eileem ofs friends; the confidence of the public ;id the peace of his own confcience.Gratitude and Piety.RTABANES was diftinguifhed withpeculiar favour by a wife, powerful,d good prince. A magnificent palace,rrounded with a delightful garden, wasovided for his refidence. He partook ofthe luxuries of bis fovereign’s table; wasveiled with extenfive authority ; and ad-hitted to the honour of a free intercourfej th his gracious mafler. But Artabaneshs infenfiblc of the advantages which heflijoyed; his heart glowed not with gratitudeId relped. ; he avoided the focietyofhisSfnefaftor, and abuled his bounty.—I deteftl|:h a character, Jaid Alexis, with generousC 24 )indignation ! It is your own pidhire which l!have drawn, replied Euphronius. The greacj:Potentate of heaven and earth has placed)/you in a world which difplays the higheft'ibeauty, order, and magnificence; and which!abounds with every means of convenience,,;enjoyment, and happinels. He has furnifh-)ed you with fuch powers of body and mindas give you dominion over the fillies of the!fea, the fowls of the air, and the beads olthe field. And he has invited you to holdcommunion with him, and to exalt youtiiown nature by the love and imitation of hisdivine perfections. Y et have your eyes wan¬dered with brutal gaze over the fair creation,unconfcious of the mighty hand from whichit fprung. Y'ou have rioted in the profufionof nature, without one fecret emotion olgratitude to the fovereign difpenfer ofaligood. And you have flighted the gloriou:converfe, and forgotten the prefence of that;Omnipotent Beibg, who fills all fpace, and|exifls through all eternity.■gjfit finis.Printed hy C Miller,Dunbar,