& ^STORYS OF9eeap8g THE THREE BEGGARS, %O|| SOLDIER’S WIFE,OOBARON TRENK,PBI.VTED FOB THE-BOOKSELLERS,M Wv,*1^ f*1! (Pi *■»> £<K »■>»; *■»).. to x»i ills► <*tw WWw Ttf <*> ut ur tf» W W WfrAfcSgfr-gflwSffi.-30 8YHOT8f|HAooaa ari iHT m httHW£IHT HOHAS:V70O3AJO.BKSOJti Kumm -«in' ay-f aaricnni*ee& jxi oooi ■ -• ^THE THREE BEGGARS.Three blind beggars were on their way fromCompiegne, to seek alms in the neighbour¬hood. They kept the high road to Scnlis,and walked at a great pace, each holding acup and stick in his hand. A youngecclesiastic, well mounted, who was ridingtowards Compiegne, and attended by a valeton horseback, was struck at a distance withtheir steady and rappid strides.u Those fellows,” said he, u for men whoappear blind, make very firm steps;' I’ll en¬deavour to find them out, and see if they arenot impostors.”Accordingly, as he came near them, andas the beggars, hearing- the trampling of thehorses’ feet, had ranged themselves in a lineto ask for charity, he called to them, andpretending to give them some money, but inreality giving them nothing, said:—44 There is a besant-; it is intended foryou all three; and you will divide it betweenyou.”44 Yes, your reverence; and may Godbless you in return for it!”Although no one of them received the4money, yet each was confident his comradehad got it. Thus, after many thanks and§y>od wishes to the horseman, they resumedlieir march, full of spirits; hut at the sametime slackening their pace.The churchman feigned also to proceedon his journey: but at some distance healighted, and delivering his horse to the careof his valet, directed him to wait his arrivalat the gates of Compiegne : he then gentlyapproached the beggars, and followed them,to watch the issue of the adventure.When they no longer heard the noise ofhorses, the leader of this little band halted.“ Comrades,” said he, “ we have made agood day’s work; and I think we had bestreturn to Compiegne, and spend the moneythis good Christian hath given us. It is along time since we have had a carousal:and now we have enough to enjoy ourselvescompletely, let us think of nothing but plee-sure, 1On their arrival in town, they heard a er\'of u Good wine!—wine of Soisons!—wineo£ Auxerre!—fish and good fare! Walkin gentlemen ; pray walk in.”They would not go any farther, but enter¬ed the first house; and after having cautionedthe people not tojudg'eof their means by theiroutward appearance, (in the tone of men whoderive confidence from the weight of theirpurso) they desired that they might he servedquickly and well.Nicholas (for that was the name of thelandlord) being- used sometimes to see personsof their vocation spend more than such asappear to be much more in affluent circum¬stances, received them respectfully. Heshowed them into his best dining’-room j^fTffcd they would be seated, and order whatthey liked best; assuring- them that therewas nothing in Compiegne but what he couldset before them, and in a style that wouldgive them perfect satisfaction.They desired that plenty of good thingamight be got ready; and, instantly, master,waiter, maid, all in the house set about it.A neighbour was even sent for to assist.At length, by virtue of several hands andgood speed, they contrived to serve up agood dinner of five dishes; and immediatelythe beggars sat down to it, laughing, sing-ing, drinking to each other, and divertingthemselves with clumsy jokes on the simpletraveller who was at the expence of thefeast.He had followed them with his valet tothe inn, and was within hearing of the mer¬riment.—He even resolved, that he mightnot lose any part of it, to dine and sup in asnug manner with the landlord. The beg¬gars all this while occupied the best room,(>and were waited on like noldemen. Theirmirth was thus prolonged till the night waspretty far advanced, when, to make a suit¬able close to so jovial a day, they each calledfor a bed, and went to restThe next morning the landlord, whowanted to get rid of them, sent his servantto call them up. When they were comedown stairs, he made out their bill, whichamounted to ten-pence. That was themoment the mischievous churchman so im¬patiently expected. To enjoy the transac¬tion more at his ease, he came and postedhimself in a corner of the room, but withoutshowing himself, least his presence might bea restraint on the guests.“ Master,” says the blind men to the land¬lord, <£ we have a besant; take your account,and give us our change.”He holds out his hand to receive it; and,as no one offers it him, he asks them again,when each says, ££ It is not I.”The landlord then gets into a passion.—<£ So, gentlemen vagrants, you think I amto serve here as a butt for your diversion.Be so good as to end all this mockery, andpay me immediately my ten-pen«e, otherwise111 give you all three a drubbing.”They then began to enquire of each other' for the piece of money—to suspect each( other’s honesty—to call names—to quarrel;7lill at length such an uproar and confusion■nsued, that the landlord, after giving eachf them a box on the ear, called his servanto come down with two good sticks.The ecclesiastic all this while kept laugh¬ing in his hiding-place till he w'as ready tolall into convulsions. But when he foundhe affair was becoming serious, and heardhem talk of sticks, he came forward, and,vith an air of surprise, asked the cause ofhe quarrel. u Sir, here are three knavesvho came yesterday to consume my provi-ions; and now I ask them fir my due, theyliave the insolence to mock me. But, bynil that’s sacred, they shall not get off inhat manner, and before they go out .”11 Softly, softly, master Nicholas,” saidhe churchman, “ these poor men have nottherewithal to pay you; and, in that case,rhey deserve rather your pity than your re¬sentment. How much does their bill amountto?”<£ Ten-pence.”1 “What! is it for so paltry a sum thatyou raise all this disturbance? Come,make yourselves easy; I will take it uponmyself. And, for my part, what am 1 topay you ?•”! “ Five-pence, Sir.”“ That’s enough; I shall pay you fifteen-ipence; now let these unfortunate men go;8and know that to harass the poor is a sin rthe first magnitude.”The blind men, who were terrified at tlriapprehension of the bastinado, made theisiescape with all possible haste; while Nicholas}who had reckoned on losing his ten-penpet(being delighted to find a person to pay iflaunched out into the most flattering eracomiurns on the churchman.u What a good man !” cried he; e< thatis the kind of priests we should have, amthen they would be respected. But, ,unfoftunately, there are few such ! Be.assuredSir, so handsome an action will not go unrewarded. You will prosper in the worldtake my word for it; and will find the gooteffects of your generosity.”All that the crafty traveller had beetsaying to his host, was but a fresh piece oroguery on his part; for, in hiring the inn¬keeper with such ostentation of generosity,he only meant to trick him as he had already!done the beggars.Just at that moment the parish-hell wadringing to prayers. He asked who was toperform the service: they told him it wantfieir parson.“As he is your pastor, mastor Nicholas,”he further said, “ you are most probablyacquainted with him ?”“Yes, Sir.”//9“ And if he vrould engage to pay thefifleen-penoe tliat I owe you, would you notacknowledge us quit ?”u U ndoubtedly, Sir, if it were thirty, andyou desired it.”Ci Well then, come along with me to thechurch, and we will speak to him.”They went out together; but first the4 ecclesiastic directed his valet to saddle thes horses, and to keep them in readiness.The priest, as they entered the church,r had just put on his sacerdotal habit, and wasgoing to read prayers.“This will keep us very long,” said tlietraveller to his host; “ I have not time towait, but must proceed immediately uponr my journey. It will satisfy you, I shouldi imagine, to have the parson’s word for the\ money?”Nicholas having nodded assent, the other|i went up to the parson,'and dexterously slip-Iping into his hand twelve deniers, said:—“ Sir, you will pardon my coming so neaithe pulpit to speak to you; but much cere¬mony need not be observed between personsiof the same condition. I am travellingthrough your town, and lodged last nightjat one of your parishoners’, whom in all pro-i bability you know, and whom you may seei hard by. He is a well-meaning man, honest,land entirely exempt from vice; but, unfor-Innately, his head is not so sound as hisheart; his brain is somewhat cracked: lastnight one of liis fits of madness prevented;us all from sleeping. He is a good dealbetter, thank God, this morning; neverthe¬less, as his head is still affected, and full ofreligion, he begged we would conduct him)to church, and that he might hear you saya prayer, that the Lord may, in his good¬ness, restore him to perfect health.”ii Most cheerfully,” answered the parson.He then turned to Ins parishioner, and saidto him, u Friend, wait till I have done theiservice, when I’ll take care that you shallhave what you desire.”Nicholas, who thought this an ample as-<surance of what he went for, said no morebut attended the traveller back to his inn,wished him a good journey, and then return-ied to the church to receive his payment fromthe parson.The latter, as soon as he had performedthe service, came with his stole and book!towards the innkeeper.u Friend,” said he, <{ go down upon yourknees.”The other, surprised at this preamble,observed that there was no occassion for suchceremony in receiving fifteen-pence.u Truly they are not mistaken,” said the,parson to himself; u this man cannot be u411his right senses.” Then asuming a tone ofsoft insinuation, u Come, my good friend,”said he, u place your trust in God; he willhave pity on your condition.”At the same time he puts the Bible on theother’s head, and begins his prayer.—Nicholas, in anger, pushes away the book;declares he cannot stay to be trifled with,guests being waiting for him at his house;mat he wants his fifteen-pence, and has nooccasion for prayers.The priest, irritated at this, calls to hiscongreg-ation, as they were going out ofchurch, and desires them to seize the man,who was raving.“No, no! 1 am not mad; and, by St.Corneille, you shall not trick me in thismanner. You engaged to pay me, and Iwill not leave this place till I get mymoney.”“ Seize him ! seize him !” cried the priestThey accordingly fastened upon the poordevil; one taking hold of his arms, anotherof his legs, a third clasping him round themiddle, while a fourth exhorted him to becomposed. He makes violent efforts to getout of their clutches, swears and foams withrage, like one possessed,—but all in vain;for the parson puts the stole round his neck,and reads quickly his prayer from beginningto end, without excusing him a single word.—r12After which he sprinkles him copiously withholy water, bestows on him a few benedicotions, and lets him loose.The unlucky wight saw clearly that hahad been made a dupe—He went home.'overwhelmed with shame and vexation ajthe loss of his fifteen-pence; but then he haciin lieu of them, got a prayer and benedic-1tion.<713THE SOLDIER’S WIFE. »  /^Walden was playing on his flute in a slowand pensive strain, when the mournful criesof a child, and the complaining voice of awoman, struck Ids ears. u Oh ! mercifulGod ?” exclaimed the poor creature, u hearwith compassion the moans of my unhappybahe !”Walden ceased to play, and looking overthe hedge, he surveyed the child with com¬passion, as the woman lay on the grass torest herself: he asked her, in a soft voice,why the poor infant cried.u He is hungry,” replied the woman,weeping bitterly, “ we have not had any¬thing to eat since yesterday morning.”“ Gracious God! since yesterday morn¬ing ! wait here a few minutes, and I willreturn.”He flew away with incredible swiftness,! and re-appeared in a short time, with a bowlof milk and a small loaf, towards which thechild stretched out his little arms, and thewoman to whom he delivered them began tofeed it.u Sit down my good woman, and eat of it14yourself,” said Walden, u I will take care ofyour infant ” Placing himself on the grassbeside it, he dipped a bit of the loaf in themilk, and patiently assisted his little famish¬ed charge.The child looked up in his face and smiled:Walden, pleased and affected at this intui¬tive mark of gratitude, kissed its little fore¬head.“What is your occupation?” he askedthe woman, who was eating with avidity;“you are, I suppose, the mother of this littlecreature: where do you live ?”“ No, it is not my own,” replied she, “andI did not know its parents. I am the wifeof a poor soldier, my worthy sir, and I havetravelled from beyond Berlin a great way;my husband had been away from me threeyears, and I wanted to see him again—for Iloved him dearly. My own two little chil¬dren I left with their grandmother, and Isold every thing I did not absolutely want athome, that I might carry him a little trifleof money. Accordingly I set out, and gotto the end of my journey just as my husbandhad marched with his corps to drive a partyof Austrians from some little village; sowhen it was all over, and they had donewhat they had been ordered, I ran to theplace to meet him.”Here the poor woman burst into tears.,15tl And when I got there he was dying- of hiswounds; yet he knew me, and stretched outhis hand, saying, ‘ Oh, Annete! our chil¬dren !’ These were his last wrords; I thoughtI should have died too, but God willed, forthe sake of our little ones and this babe,that I should live. In the same house wheremy poor husband expired, was the wife of anAustrian soldier, who died two days after¬wards, and left this babe, which nobody onearth seemed to take care about. Almost allthe village had been burned down, and allthe inhabitants had run away; so that whenour soldiers marched, I begged them to taketire poor child with them ; but then they saidto me, 4 What could we do with it ?’ andthat was very true; but to let the child stay,and die with hunger, was impossible; so Iresolved to take it, let what would happen :and I set out to return to my own home,with the babe in mine arms. In my way Iwas weary enough; but I never met withany body that took compassion on me or myburden, so I walked on ; but I fell sick, as}rou may see by my looks, and spent theittle money I had left, and then I sold myclothes and every thing I could spare. Allwent except these poor rags; yet still Ithought if I could but get home I should dovery well. I am used to hard work, and Icould even do for this little creature, who has16nobddy in the world but me to put a morselof bread into its poor mouth; so I can’t bearto let it starve !”As she said this, she pressed the child toher bosom, and her tears dropped upon it,whilst she repeated, “if I was but able towork, or I could but get enough to keep ittill I reach my home!”“ Poor babe !” said Walden, “poor, yethappy creature, who, in losing her who gavethee birth, found a second mother! eyesthat dropt tears of pity on thy lot, and aheart that loves thee! no, thou shalt notfrom hard necessity be deserted!”Walden then wrote upon a leaf of hispocket-book the name of the woman, andthat of the village where she informed himshe lived with her family; and giving her asmall sum of money, promised that he wouldremit the same to her every year.The woman, on holding the gold in herhand, which had never contained so muchbefore, exclaimed, “ Oh! this is to much,worthy sirand being desired to keep it,she added, “ we shall now be rich indeed!my own little ones, and this one, and theirgrandmother, we shall all be rich !”“ Good creature!” exclaimed Walden withemotion, “you are rich indeed, in a heartto which all other riches are dross! yourhumanity to this orphan will be better ro-17warded; but if this were my last,crown youshould have it Hasten away, or I may l>etempted to take the child, to have the plea¬sure of bringing it up, that it may love meas it will you.” On hearing this, the womanhastily pressed the infant to her bosom, andgiving Walden a farewell benediction, pur¬sued her journey with alacrity.18BARON TRENCK. ♦ <Baron Trexck, at the time of the first warbetween the king- of Prussia and the houseof Austria, being young and enterprising,offered himself, with a small band of deter¬mined men, to carry off the king of Prussia,when he went out from his camp to recon¬noitre the position of the Austrians. In fact,he did attempt the enterprise; but succeededso ill that he was taken prisoner himself, andcondemned to perpetual confinement in thecastle of Magdeburgh. The treatment hereceived was equally singular and cruel.He was chained, standing against the wall;so that, for several years, he could neithersit nor lie down. His gaurds had orders notto let him sleep more than a certain time;very short, but long enough to prevent hisstrength from being entirely exhausted.He remained four or five years in this dread¬ful situation; after which, there beingreason to fear he could not live long in thatstate, he was chained in s’uch a manner thathe might sit down, which appeared to himto be a great alleviation of his sufferings.He told me himself, that after having sufferedsevere illness during the first year of his im¬prisonment, his constitution, which wasstrong and robust, was so unbroken, that herecovered his health; and though he receivedno other sustenance than bread and water,yet he was remarkably well, and resumedhis former gaiety. In this state of mind hefound means to soothe the tedium of so longan imprisonment by making verses; whichhe set to music as well as he could, and sungfor half the day. As he had nothing worseto dread, the king of Prussia was frequentlythe subject of his songs, and was not sparedin them. He also had recourse to the powerof imagination, to soothe the horrors of hissituation; and the whole time that he didnot spend in singing, was passed in turninghis ideas to all the agreeable conditions whichit was possible for him to conceive. He was: almost brought to consider these wanderingsl of his imagination as realities, and to regardI his misfortunes as mere dreams. At last the! Empress Queen, who for a long time hadI believed that he was dead, being informed ofI his miserable existence, solicited his liberty1 from the king of Prussia with so much eaf-i hestness, that she obtained his release. I1 saw him at Aix-la-Chapelle, cnjoyiiig' vcryI good health; having married a handsomei woman, the daughter of one of the principali inhabitants of that imperial city, to which20he had retired, that he might not be exposedto the power of an arbitrary go verm et itHe published several German works, someof which are the fruits of the reflections hemade during the time of his imprisonment;some poetry against the king of Prussia,and some details relative to the manner inwhich he passed his time at Magdeburgh.He gave them to me himself; and thoughhis works had no great merit in the style,yet the singularity of his thoughts, and theextraordinary fate of the author, renderedthem interesting. What astonished memost in him was, the force of mind, thecourage, and the constancy which had sup¬ported him in a situation in which there wasno hope of his seeing better days. He ap¬peared now to have forgotten the whole, or torecall the remembrance of his past sufferings,only that he might the better enjoy the hap¬piness of his present condition. He wasvery gay; and there were moments whenone might have supposed, without doinghim great injustice, that his reason had beenin some degree affected by his long confine¬ment ; but it was only surprising that thisdid not appear in a more eminent degree.*• Poor Trenck, wishing to take a part in the FrenchRevolution, went to Paris in the year 1793, and wasguillotined on the 25th of July, 1794, two days before!the execution of Robespierre21 vyr fJACK EASY." But Huilibras, who scoru’d to stoopTo Fortune, or be said to droop.Cheer’d up himself with ends of verse,And sayings of philosophers.”Among the happy people in the world, arethose, in whose minds nature or philosophyhas placed a kind of acid, with which careor disappointment will not easily mix.This acid differs very much from ill-nature;it is rather a kind of salt, expressed fromfrequent observations on the folly, the vanity,and the uncertainty of human events; fromthat best of all philosophy, which teaches usto take men as we find them, and circum¬stances as they occur, good or bad, for betteror for worse; that dwells not on future pro¬spects, reflects not on past troubles, and caresnot a fig for present difficulties, but dex¬terously turns them to ridicule or advantage;snatching, at every opportunity, accidentalpleasures, and nobly bearing up against therubs of ill-fortune.When reflections upon the troubles of lifeI are mixed up in a disposition naturally ill-I tempered, they compose what is called22'melancholy; but as they have no chemicalaffinity with good humour, they will noteasily combine; and the small particles thatare miscible, produce only the sweet and acidsalt of true philosophy*Such a traveller, in his journey throughthe world, was my honest friend Jack Easy.Jack came to a good fortune at the death ofhis father, and mounted his hobby withoutits ever having been properly broken in; liegalloped over the plains of Fancy, went offin a full canter to the road of Dissipation,and leaped over all the five-barred gates ofAdvice and Discretion. It may naturallybe supposed, that before long’ his filly gavehim a fall: poor Jack came down sureenough; but he only shook himself, brushedoff the dirt of the road, and mounted againin as high spirits as ever; excepting, thathe now began to sit firmer in the saddle, andto look about him: this, however, did nothinder him from getting into a swamp, calleda law-suit, where he remained a considerabletime before he could get out: his fortunewas now reduced from some thousands to afew hundreds; and by this time, no manbetter knew the way of life than my friendJack Easy. He had been through all thedirty cross-roads of business, money-borrow¬ing, bankruptcy, and law; and at lastarrived at a g’oal. !My friend Jack did not despond; beconsoled himself with the reflection that hewas a single man; some of his misfortuneswere the consequences of his own imprudence,others of unforseen accidents, and most ofthem originated from his good nature andgenerosity. He, however, never excused;he lumped them all together, took them ingood part, and blamed nobody but himself;he whistled away his troubles, and often re¬peated.“ I am out of Fortune’s power:“ He who is down can sink no lower.”The goddess, however, at last put on herbest smiles, and paid Jack a visit in tlieKing’s-Bench, in the shape of a handsomelegacy. Jack smiled at the thing, being,as he called it, so extremely a-propos ! andonce more mounted his nag. He now rodemere cautiously, and turned into the road ofEconomy, which led to a comfortable innwith the sign of Competency over the door;he had borrowed a martingale from an oldhostler called experience; and for the firsttime in his life used a curb. He beganalready to find, that though he did not gallopaway as formerly, yet he went on in his jour¬ney pleasantly enough. Some dashing riderspassed him, laughing at his jog-trot pace;but he had no occassion to envy them long;for presently some of them got into ruts, others24were stuck fast in bog-s and quagmires, and.:;the rest were thrown from their saddles to the'great danger of their necks. Jack Easy, .1meanwhile, jogged on merrily; hot or cold,(Iwet or dry, he never complained; he now jpreferred gettingoft', and opening a gate, to :ileaping over it; and smiled at an obstacle i1as at a turnpike, where he must necessarilypay toll.The man who is contented either to walk,trot, or canter through life, has by much theadvantage of his fellow travellers. He suitshimself to all paces, and seldom quarrels withthe tricks which the jade Fortune is some¬times disposed to play him. You might nowsee Jack Easy walking his hobby along theroad, enjoying the scene around him, withcontentment sparkling in his eyes. If theway happened to be crowded with horsemenand carriages, you might observe him veryreadily taking his own side of the road, andletting them pass. If it began to rain orblow, Jack only pulled up the collar of his'■reat-coat, flapped his hat, and retreated tohe best shelter he could find till the stormwas over.Thus my friend Jack Easy came in witha jog-trot to the end of his journey, leavinghis example behind him as a kind of finger¬post for the good of other travellers.FINIS.