ANOF TI1EMELANCHOLY DEATHOFSEVEN VOUJS'G MEN,kVho fell victims to their own DrunkenResolutions, whereby they were allDrowned, near Dumbarton, on aSabbath Excursion.GLASGOW;f* MURRAY, 47 GALLOWGATE.1840.ii> > ■ v n .axjoiJiii ...( i'irV.ny.'. tljjst'teSABBATH PLEASURE PARTY.IFhe following melancholy facts should nevernave gained publicity^ to wound the feelingsbf the relatives of the unfortunate sufferers,nad it not been from a sincere desire of do¬ing good, and to show the fearful effects ofpvil company. Thomas Graham, one of the|/oung men whose premature end we lament,,vas the son of respectable parents in this[Town, and was shopman to a Clothier, en-loyed the confidence of his master and theiove of all his acquaintances, attended thediurch regurlarly, and was in all respects airomising young man, and about the time tovbich this history refers, enjoyed the pros-)ect of making an advantageous settlementn life. About this time a Club was institutedn a Publichouse, for drinking, smoking, taili¬ng of Politics, wasting their money and re¬siling religion. Of this Club, a young manif the name of Robert Thomson was thelead, who possessed both wit, humour and;alent, which would have done honour to aletter cause. Thomas Graham happened oc¬casionally to frequent the house where the31ub was field. When Thomson, with theitmost civility, always plied Thomas with all:he arguments in his power to induce him to4leave offhis old-fashioned notions. Grahammind was not fortified against his insinustions, and it is sufficient to say that he sinceeded too well; a wonderful change was sooevident in his conduct, he would now join ithe infidel laugh, he could now neglect hchurch, he first learned to omit, then to r<dicule prayer, then curse, swear and drinlthe alteration in his manner was too evidenH is kind master expostulated with him oJthe foolishness of his conduct, his parents dioften chide him, but both reproof and advicwere wasted. At times conviction would flagupon his mind, hut as soon as he visited thClub at night, he soon shook off all serioiimpressions ; they met on theSaturday nighprevious to the fatal disaster, when all thparty got drunk—while reeling in their cupThomson, who as usual, was chairman, mada long harangue, and after descanting largelon the dulness of the Sabbath, when mewere prohibited from lawful recreation, prcposed that they should hire a boat on thmorning and take a trip to Greenock, wherhe knew a publichouse where they would havthe pleasure of dining with a few friends ctheir own sort. In the morning they assencbled again, and after having a few glasses twash away the debauch of the previous nigh-ithe boat was procured, and they proceeded!on their excursion. As the boat left the shore:the church bells summoned the people to the: house of God. Graham listened, and his:cheek flushed with something like shame atIthe thought of his conduct. Thomson per-iceived it, and immediately began to deridehim. Thomas, said he, I see you have notentirely got quit of these qualms, I knowthat you are not divested of your psalm-sing¬ing notions, but to efface these foolish feel¬ings, I will just sing you a stave of a merrysong, so saying he applied a bottle of whiskywhich they had in the boat, and then pro¬ceeded with a coarse song. Graham declaredthat it was certainly foolish, but he could notbe entirely easy, so many accidents happenedon Sunday, it might be superstition, but herecollected the time that he looked on suchaccidents as so many judgments. Thomsonimmediately affirmed that he wanted no suchmethodist cant, that every Sunday in the yearwhen the weather was fine, he had an aquaticexcursion, and then pouring out a volley ofoaths, declared that he was never drownedyet. Graham now began to be ashamed ofhis fear, and tried to be as thoughtless as hiscompanions. It was a delightful morning, forthe season and all around seemed to proclaim6the Christian Sabbath, but their minds felt ncrelish for such elevated sentiments —■ whaithey should eat, what they should drink, ancthe merry companions they should enjoy theday with, absorbed all their thoughts. Asthey were now drawing near their destina¬tion, in a few minutes they reached the shore,they then hastened to the Inn, where theircompanions were assembled waiting their ar¬rival. They were not only welcomed bythem, but “mine host” waited on them, dis¬playing all the urbanity he was master of.The dinner was ordered, which was preparedwith all the haste possible, when it was over,a supply of drink of various kinds, with pipes,tobacco, SfC. was called for, and now our gen¬tlemen began to be merry, one laughed atthe drones who were sitting pent up in achurch, another praised Sunday as one of thebest days of the week for amusement—thejest—the infidel laugh—and the obscene ex¬pression followed each other in rapid succes¬sion. Thus they passed the Sabbath until day¬light was nearly gone, and the weather seem¬ed rather threatening before they thought ofdeparting. The Landlord who perceivedtheir condition now tried to persuade themto stop all night, as he doubted the nightwould be stormy, and the night being so far7advanced, it would be impossible to reachihome before dark. Thomson replied thatthey were warm enough within to resist awetting, though ever so heavy, swore thatany who were cowards might stay where theywere, as for him he would be home if heshould swim all the way. One of the com¬pany more cautious than the others, took theLandlord’s advice, and in spite of the jeersof his more intrepid companions, resolved tostop where he was, the others were soon inIthe boat, and in spite of persuasion pushedtoff, little thinking that their end was so near.They hoisted their sail and the squall whichihad threatened long, now began to approach,Ithe sky became gloomy and dark accom¬panied by a heavy gale, stupid from the ef¬fects of drink, they could not manage theboat, when it swamped and all perished.These simple facts are told as they hap¬pened, and now with the melancholy fate ofthese unfortunate youths before us, let mempress on your minds to remember the Sab-ijbath day, many an untimely death has beenbccasioned and could be distinctly traced to.Sabbath abuse. God hath given us six daysi;o follow our secular employment, and whenle reserved one day for himself, he never in-:ended it to be spent in folly or play, he hathsgiven it for our own good, for our improvment in virtue and piety; how singular itthat man should choose to incur his Makefrown, to gain the applause of a deceivi)world. You may riot in vice for a whiand try to believe religion a lie, but the tinwill come when you will not be able to shieyourself from conviction, evil company m;represent religion dull, gloomy and deformeibut all who have tried it have declared iyoke to be easy and its burden light; aithough many ho walk in the ways of rligion suffer affliction, the Lord is at haithat loves them. Should this little womeet the eye of any who have been bless*with a religious education, and who aredanger of having the good seed plucked awalet them beware of the first step to vice ho’ever small it may seem, and learn to resithe temptations of designing men. Thom.Graham was once all could be wished, athad he guarded against the company whi*proved so fatal, we should not have had tlpainful task of recording his premature deaamong those whose death we have also rlated.