AH ACCOUNT OfSeveral Remarkable EarthquakesWHICH HAVE HAPPENED INVarious Quarters of the World;Vith the Direful Gonfequences that have accruedfrom thofe Dreadful Convulfions of Nature.Iccafional Shocks of which, have been felt in! Scotland, within thefe thirteen years. Two forecently, as the months of January and Febru-h ary, 1799.COLLECTED FROM GOOD AUTHORITIES,jl 1 ■ » »1 " ■■    11 1GLASGOW,IRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSOI/,. SALTMARKET, 1800.: 2 )'A N.ACCOUNT 01- SEVERALRemarkable Earthquakes, &c.iiirchet’s Account of t?ie Esrcliquats in Calabririn 1638.ON the 24t.l1 of March, we launched (in |unall boat) fro:n the harbour of Medina iSicily, and arrived the fame day ar the promonrery of Pelorus. Our dciliuation was for the city cJimiheinia in Calabria ; but on account of th,weather, we were, obliged to continue three dayat rdorus. At length, wearied with the delay, wrcfolved to profecute our voyage; and althougthe lea feereed more than ufually agitated, yet wventured forward The gulnh of Charybdrs, whicwe approached, feemed whirled round in fuch-manner as to form a waft hoMow, verging to «^int in the centre. Proceeding onward, anturning my eyes to Mount iKtua, 1 faw it caforth large volumes'of fnioke, of a mountatnoflizc, which entirely covered the ifland, and blotted out even the ihpres from my view. This, tcgether with the dreadful none, arid the fulphur*ous (tench, which was ftrongly perceived, filltITREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 3; rne with apjwehenftons that fo.-r.e tnore dreadfulcalamity was impending. The fea itfclf feemedto wear a very uouluai appearance ; thofe whohave feen a lake in a violent fliower of rain all; covered over with bubbles, will have fome idea ofits agitations. My ftirprife was ftill increafed bythe caimuefs and ftreniry of the weather; not abreeze, not a cloud, which might be fuppofed toput all nature thus into motion. I thereforeI warned my companion, that an earthquake witsI approaching, and, artef fome time, making, for| the {here with all poifible diligence, we landed atTropxa. But we had learce arrived at the Jefuits| college in that city, when our ears w. re ftunnetlpj with an .horrid found, re'fembiirg tb ifof an inn-Iljite number of chariots driven fiercely forward,the wheels rattling and the 1 hongs cracking. Soonafter this* a molt dreadful earthquake enfued; fothat the whole track upon winch we itood feemedto vibrate, as if we were in the feal.e of a balancei| that continued waving. This motion, however,I Toon grew more violetit; anil being no longer ableJ to keep my legs, I was thrown ptoftrate'upon theI ground. After fome time, finding that 1 remain¬ed unhurt amid it the general eoncuifion, I jc fold¬ed to venture for fnfety ; and running as fait as Icould, reached the Ihore. I did net ftarch longhere, till I found the boat in which I had landed,and my companions alfo. Leaving this feat ofdefolation, we profecuted our voyage along thecoaft, and the next day came to Rochetta, wherewe landed, although the earth fUH continued inviolent agitation. But we were Ibarce arrived atj cur inn, when we were once more obliged to re-i turn to our boat; and in about half an hour weI faw the greatefl part of the town, and the inn,atwhich we had fct up, etfhcd to the ground, and4 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.• burying ail its inhabitants beneath its ruins. Proceeding onward in our little vefTel, we at length jlanded at Lapizium, a callie mid-way between jTropsea and Euphemia the city to which we were: jbound. Here, wherever l turned my eyes, no- jthing but fcenes of ruin and horroi appeared; towns: Iand' caftles levelled to the ground ; Stromboli,though at fixty miles dilt-ance, belching forthliames in an unufual manner, and with a noife■which I could dift:nelly hear. But my attentionwras quickly turned from more remote to contigu¬ous danger. The rumbling found of an approach¬ing earthquake, which by this time we were grownacquainted with, alarmed us for the confeqtiences. iIt every moment feemed to grow louder, and to-approach more near. The place on which weiibood now began to fhake mod dreadfully, fathat, being unable to itand, my companions and1 caught hold of whatever (hrub grew next us,and fupported ourfeives in that manner. Afterfotne time, the violent paroxyfm ceafing, we againilood up, in order to profecute our voyage toEuphemia, which lay within fight. In the meantime, while we were preparing for this purpofe,I turned my eyes towards she city, butAould feeonly a frightful dark cloud, that feemed to reftupon the place. This the more furprifed us, asthe weather was fo very ferene. We waited,,therefore, till the cloud was parted away; thenturning to look for the city, it was totally funk ; ■and nothing but a difmat and putrid lake was tobe feen where it flood.AccountiREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 5Account of the Earthquake that happened inJamaica, in 1692.IN 1692, an Earthquake happened in Jamaica ■—In two minutes, it deftroyed the town of PertRoyal, at that time the capital of the iiland; andfunk the houfes in a gulph 40 fathoms deep. I;was attended with an hollow rumbling noife likepat of thunder : the ilreets rofe like th& waves ofr.he fea j firft lifting up the hoults, and then im¬mediately throwing them down into deep pits*All the wells difeharged their waters with the molt'iolent agitation. The fea burft over its bound?,tnd deluged all that flood in its way. The fiflltrea:;f the earth were in fome places fo great, that one;f the ftreets appeared twice as broad as formerly,in many places it opened and doled again, andijtonttnued this agitation for fome time. Of thefeupenings, great numbers might be feen at once,n fome of them, the people vyere fwallowrd upt once j in others, the earth caught them by themiddle, and crufhed them to death ; while othersmore fortunate, were fwallowed up in one chafim,md thrown out alive by another. Other chafrrrsvere large enough to fwallow up the wholeireets; and others, (bill more formidable, fpoutedip immenfe quantities of water drowning fuch asme earthquake had fpared. The whole was at-ipnded with flenches and offcnfive fmells, the^oife of falling mountains at a diftance, &c. ; andte fky, in a minute’s time, was turned dull and'ddilh, like a glowing oven. Yet as great a fuf-brer as Port-Royal was, more houfes were left(.anditig therein than on the whole iflar.d befides.;;carce a planting-houfe, or fugar-houfe, was leftunding in all Jamaica. A great part of them6 remarkable earthquakes.fvvniiowed up, houfes, people, frees and all, inone gap: in lieu cf whicli, afterwards appearedgreat pools of \yater ; wl.ich, when dried up, leftnothing hut fand, without any mark that ever treeor p/ant had grown thereon. The fltock w'as foviolent, that it ri»rew people down on their kneesor their faces ns they were running about for {hei¬fer. Several houfes were fhutlied fome yardsrut of their piaces, apd yet continued ftahding.One Hopkins had his plantation jenteved half amile from the place where it ftood, without anyconfiderable alteration* Ail the welts in fiia■ifland, as well as thofe cf Port-Royal, from one, ;fathom to (lx or feven deep, threw their water outnt the top with great violence Aiw»ve i a milesfrom the fea, the earth gapejd and fpanted out,prodigious force, vad; quantities of waterwithinto the air: yet the greateft violences were amongthe mountains and rocks; and it is 3 general o-pinion, that the nearer the mountains, the greatcr the fnock, and the caufe thereof lay amongmiry maue iitt.iuictvc# new uucks auu; tearing up, in their pafTage, trees, &c.? great, fnock, thofe people who efcaped .them. Mcif cf the rivers were ftopped up for 24i.ours by the falling of the mountains; till fvvell-they made thtrnfelves new tracks andchannelsAfter thegot cn board fhips in the harbour, where manycontinued above two months; the {hocks all thattime being fo violent, and coming fo thick, fome-timeo two or three in an hour, accompanied withfrightful noifes tike a milling wind, or a hollowTumbling thunder, with hiimfione-blafls, thatthey durh not come afiiore. The confequence ofthe earthquake was a general ficknefs, from thenoifome vapours belched forth, which fwept awayabove 3000 perfons.OfVj.N 1^93, sn earthquake happened in Sicily,which may juftly be accounted one of the melti irribit of which we have any account. It (hooke w hole iiland: and not only that, but Naplesid Malta fhared in the fhock. It w'as itnpoflible■ r any body in this country to keep cn their legsf k the dancing earth; nay, thofe that lay on theMound were tofied from fide to fide as on a rol-tg billow : high walls' leaped from their founda-Hns feveral paces, &c. The mifehief it did isi (lazing -y almoft all the buildings in the countriesTre thrown down. Fifty-four cities and- towns,1 tide an incredible number of villages, were ei-r dtflroyed or greatly damaged. We flial! on-r|inft?nce the fate of Catania, one of the mo ftIous, ancient, and fiom iihiog cities in thejdofn : tl-e refu'ence cf feveral monarch; , anduniveriicy. Tlds once famous city had theitefl hi are in the traperiy. Father Anthony•ovitaj being on his way thither, and at thesnee of a few miles, olferved a black cloudnight hovering ever the cny; and there ar.ofe 'u the mouth of Montgibclio great fpires ^ofle, which fpread ail around. The fea all of aien began to roar and rift in billows, and therea blow, as if all the artillery in the world hadin at once difeharged. The 1 irds few aboutt-rwfhed; the cattle in the fields tan crying-,• If is and his companions her fee flopped inert,mbling ; (o that they were forced to alight.; ey were no fooner off, but they were liftedm the ground above two palms, v hen callingeves towards Catania, he with amazement fawMhing but a thick cloud cf dull in the air. This8 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.was the fcene of their calamity, for of the msgnificent Catania, there was not the lead footitep tbe feen. 8. Bonajutus affares us, that of i8yo\inhabitants, \8ooo perifhed therein.This and the two preceding accounts are takefrom Encyclopaedia Britannica 3d Editn. vol. 6-EAR.An Account of the great Earthquake, that hap¬pened at Lifhon, Nov. ill 1755.• ^T^HERE never was a finer morning feethan the firfl of November (1755)j,thfun ihone cut in its full lullre j the M^hole face cthe fky was perfectly ferene and clear, and ncthe leafl fignal or warning of that approaching tvent, which has made this once flourifning, opulent, and populous city a fcene of the utmoft hotror and defolation, except only fuch as ferved talarm, but fcarcely left a moment’s time to flfrom the general deftvu£!ion.‘ It was on the morning of this fatal day, between the hours of nine and ten, that I was 0down in my apartment, juft finifhing a letre:when the papers and table I was writing on b«.gan to tremble with a gentle motion, which rath®furprizrd me, as I could not perceive a breath ;0wind ftirring; whilft I was reflefting with myfe:what this could be owing to, but without bavinthe leaft apprehenfion of the real caufe, the who^ 1houfe began to ihake from the very foundationwhich at firft I imputed to the rattling of fevercoaclies in the mainftreet, which ulually pafiethat way, at this time, from Belem to the palact 1REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.t on hearkening more attentively, I was foou\ ^deceived, as I found it was owing to a itrangenghtful kind of noife under ground, refemblingi s hollow diflant rumbling of thunder: all this(Ted in lefs than a minute, and I muft confefs lw began to be alarmed, as it naturally occurred11 me, that this noife might pofftbly be the fore-i inner of an earthquake, as one I remembered,i lich had happened about fix or feven years ago,i the ifland of Madeira, commenced in the fame:inner, though it did little or no damage.‘ Upon this I threw down my pen, and ftartedon my feet, remaining a moment in fufpence,nether I fhould (lay in the apartment, or runo the ftreet, as the danger in both places>rmed equal, and Hill flattering myfelf that thisSjmor might produce no other effetts than fucht tonfiderable ones as had been felt at Madeira j|| in a moment I was roufed from my dream,;:|ng inftantly ftunned with a moft horrid crafh,if every edifice in the city had tumbled downnonce. The houfe I was in Ihook with fuchtflence, that the upper (lories immediately fell,11 though my apartment (which was the firfi;(hr) did not then (hare the fame fate, yet every|ng was thrown out of its place in fuch a man-; , that it was with no fmall difficulty I kept myjt, and expedled nothing lefs than to be fooniffied to death, as the walls continued rockingind fro in the frightfulleft manner, -opening in:ral places, large Hones falling down on everyfrom the cracks, and the ends of moft of theers darting out from the roof. To add to thisi ifying feene, the ficy in a moment became foiomy, that I could now diftinguiih no particu-I objedls^it was an Egyptian darknefs indeed,1 h as might be felt •, owing, no doubt, to thei-p T4ifMAR'KABLE- EA.RTHQyAKF.j?-.qanSKvJ^pous clouds of citifl; arid !i>ne, raued fro;iAo violent :» concufliony and as fome-raparted, ttTnlphnrcoeis exh&lrrtions, Kut Hus I cannot adii u.hcv/cvcr, j<-is certatil l found my-fdf almoft chbaicfor near ten in'inutca,' i- • '• ;c ... {‘ As foan—ns the e;l>3rn begun to difperf*. an*the violence of the fhoclc feemed pretty much abated, thfe freft objedi f per^etyed -in the room waj,;a woman fat iHg on the floor, with an infant inher a-rms, ill covered with dufl, pale ami trentjbiing*, I adeed her how ihe got hither: but he>.conilernation was ft gneat that (he could give taino account ef her efeipe, I foppofe, that whdthe tremor {urft be^an, fho ran out of her owhouff, and finding herfelf in fuch imminent danger from the falling of ftones, retire*! into titdoor of mine, which was almoft contiguous rher's, for ilidter, and when the fiiock inereafetwhich filled the door with dull arid rubbilh, raup flairs into mv apartment, which was then cpen; be it as it might, this was no time for curofay. 1 remember the poor creature afited m.'in the inmofl agony, if I did not think that tlworld was at an end ; at the fame time fhe cop.plained .of b? log choaked, and begged for Got:fake I vvo.uld procure her a little drink; upon thI went to a cloftt where I kept a large jar wi:water ( vhich you know is fometirr.es a pretfcarce commodity in Llfbon) but finding it brokein nieces, 1 told her the mult not now think •quenching her third, but Caving her life, asjtlhoufe was juft f f ling on our heads, and if a fecojlfliock came., would certainly bury m both ; I ba.her take hold of my arm, and that I would endevour to bring her into fqme place of feebrity. a t‘ I fa.all always look upon it as a pi Ocular pr"’dence. that I happened on this occaiioti to n I23REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES, mundreffcd, for hid I drefTed myfdf, p.s 1 propofedj■when I gor out of bed, iii order to breakfalt witha friend, I fhouldy in all probability, have runinto the ftreet at the beginning of the Ihoclc, a,the reft of the people in the hoafe did, and con-fequently have had my brains dallied out, as every'one of them had; however, the imminent dangerI was in did not hinder me from conlidering thatmy prefent drefs, only a gown and flippers, wouldrender rr.y getting over the ruins almoft impradli-cable : I had, therefore, ftill prefence of mind e-•nough left to put on a pair of fhoes and a coat,■the firlt that came in my way, which was everything I faved, and in this drefs I hurried down'■(lairs, the .woman with me, holding by my arm,and made diredliy to that end of the ftreet that o~pens to the Tagus, but finding the paflage uhisway entirely blocked up with the fallen houftartothe height of their fecond ftories, I turned backto the other end which1 led into the main ftreet(the common thoroughfare’to the palace) and hav¬ing helped the woman over a vaft heap of ruins,with no fmall hazard to my own life, juft as wewere going into the ftreet, as there was one partI could not well climb over without the afliftanceof my hands, as well as feet, I defired her to letgo her hold, which ihe did, remaining two or threefeet behind me, at which time there fell a vaft:Hone, from a tottering wall, and crulhed both herand the child in pieces: fo difmal a fpeclacle atany other time would have affteled me in theIrghefl degree, but the dread I was in of (haringthe fame fate myfclf, and the many inftances osthe fame kind which prefented themfelves all a-round, were too fhocking to make me dwell a mo¬ment on this fingle objedl-f I had now a long narrow ftreet to pafs, with12 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.the houfes on each fide four or five {lories high,all very old, the greater part already thrown down,. cr continually falling, and threatening the paiTen-•gers with inevitable death at every ftep, numbers•of whom lay killed before me, or what I thoughtfar more deplorable—fobruifed and wounded thatthey could not ftir to help themfelve® For myown partj as deftru&ion appeared to me unavoid¬able, f only wifhed I might be made an end of atami not have my limbs broken, in whichonce.cafe I could expeft nothing elfe but to be left uponthe fpot, lingering in mifery, like thefe poor un-happy wretches, without receiving the leall fuc-ceur from ary perfoa1 As felf-prefervation, however, is the firft law ofnature, thefe fad thoughts did not fo far prevail, asto make me totally defpair. I proceeded on as faftconveniently could, though with the utmoftcaution, and having at length got clear of thishorrid paffage, I found myfelf fafe and unhurt inthe large open fpace before St. Paul’s church,which had been thrown down a few minutes be¬fore, and buried a great part of the congregation,that was generally pretty numerous, this beingreckoned one of the moft populous parifhes in Lif-oon. Here I ftood (bme time, confidering what{ {hnuld do, and not thinking myfelf fafe in this j:Situation, I came to the refolution of climbing o-ver the ruins of the weft end of the church, inorder to get to the river fide, that I might be removed, as far as pofimle, from the tottering houf¬es, in cafe of a f cond fhock.* This, with fome difficulty, I accompliftied, and.J|;here 1 found a prodigious concourfe of people, of•both fexes, and of all ranks and conditions, a-mong whom I obferved fome of the principal can-nons of the patriarchal church, in their pu'-plelf-;obe:REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 13? pbes and rochets, as thefe all go in the habit of) ifhops j feveral priefts who had run from the al-irs in their facerdotal veftments in the midft of: aeir celebrating mats; ladies half drefled, and! )me w ithout (hoes ; all thefe, whom their mutualj langers had here aflembled as to a place of fafety,7ere on their knees at prayers, with the terrors of: eath in their countenances, every one ftriking hifrf reaft, and crying out inceffantly, Miferecordinneo Dies.‘ In the midft of our devotions, the fecond greattock came on, little lefs violent than the firft, andlompleted the ruin of thofe buildings which had1 ieen already much lhatrered The confternationt now became fo univerfal, that the (bricks and criesf Miftrecordia could be diftintUy heard from thefjop of St. Catherine’s hill at a conftderable dif-■ lance off, whither a vafl number of people had: iikewife retreated ; at the fame time we could hearihe fall of the parifli church there, whereby many' icrfons were killed on the fpot, and others mor-Itally wounded. You may judge of the force ofiiihis (hock, wrhen I inform you, it was fo violent,< chat I could fcarce keep on my knees, but it wasintended with fome circumftances ftill more dread-i ful than the former—On a Bidden T heard a gen-ifcral outcry, ‘ The fea is coming in, we (hall be allMoft.’—Upon this, turning my eyes towards the riv-ctr, which in that place is near four miles broad,:£ could perceive it. heaving and fwelling in a moduunaccountable manner, as no wind was Hiring: inIjan inftant there appeared at fome Bnall diftahee,l large body of water, rifing like a mountain; itcame on foaming and roaring, and rufhed towardsijtjie (bore with fuch impetuofity, that we all im-i'mediately ran for our lives as fall as poffible ; ma-|ny were actually fwept away, and the reft abovetheir,i4 REMARKABLE EAR'PHQUAKES.their waift in water at a good diftanca from thbanks. For my own part, I had the. narroweft cfcape, and (h mid certainly have been loft, ludnot'grafped a lari>e beam that lay on the grounctill the water returned to its channel, which it dialmoft at the fame inftant, with equal rapidityAs tberp now appeared at lead; as much nangefrom the fea as the land, and I fcarce knew whsther to retire for fhelter, I took a fudden refolu,tion of returning back with my clothes all dropping, to the area of St. Paul’s: here I ftood fomitime, and obferved the fhips tumsling and toffiii)about, as in a violent ftorm, fome had broken thekcables, and were carried to the other tide of tlrTagns, others were whirled round with incredibkfwlftnefs j^fcveral large boats were turned keel up.wards ; and all thb without any wind, which feemed the more aftonifhiiig. It was at the time 6which I am now fpeaking, that the fine new quaybuilt of rough marble, at an irnmenfe expeniewas entirely fwallowed up, with ail the people orit, who had lied thither for fafety, and had reaforto think themfelves out of danger in fuch a placeat the fame, time a great number pf boats antfmall veffcls, anchored near ir (all likewlfe full o’people, who had retired thither for the fume pur-pofe) were all fwallowed up, as in a wh;r!poo!, andnever more appeared.‘ 1 his l ift dreadful incident I did not fee w'ithmy own eyes, as it pafird threeor four ftone throwsfrom the fpot where I then was, but I had the ac¬count as here given from feveral mafters of flop-*):who were anchored whhin tw’o or three hundredyards of the quay, and law the whole cataftropheOne of them in particular informed me, that whenithe fecond fhock came on, he could perceive th$whole city waving backwards and forwards, like.REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 15the fea wh.a the wind aril begins^to rife, that thaagitation o' the earth was fj great even under theriver, that it threw up his large anchor from themooring, which Twain, as he termed it, on thefurfaoe of the water; that immediately upon thisextraordinary concuffion, the river rofe at oncenear twenty feet, and in a moment fubhded ; atwhich irrflant he faw the quay, with the wholeconcourfe of people upon it, fink down, and atthe fame time every one of the. boats and veflelsthat were near h were drawn into the cavity, whichhe fuppofes tnftantly clofed upon them, inafmuchas not the teaft (ign of a wreck was ever feen af¬terwards. This account you may give full creditto, for as to the lofs of the vefFels, it is confirm¬ed by evesy body; and with regard to the quay, Iwent myf'Jr a few days after, to convince myfelfof the truth, and could not find even the ruins ofa place, where I had taken fo many agreeable walk?,as this was the common rendezvous of the factoryin the cool of the evening. I found it all deepwater, and in fome parts fcarcely to be fathomed.4 This is the only place Tcould learn which wasfwal'.owed up in or about Lifbcn, though l fawmany large cracks ami filTures in different parts,and one odd phenomenon I muft not omit, whichwas communicated to me by a friend who had ahoufe and wine-cellars on the other fide of the riv¬er, viz that the dwelling-home being firlt terriblyfhaken, which made all the family run out, thereprefenfly fell down a vail high rock near it, thatupon this the river rofe and fubfided in the man¬ner alieady mentioned, and immediately a greatnumber of final! fiiiures appeared in feveral conti¬guous pieces of ground, whence there fpouted outlike ayVt d'eau a large quantity of fine white fund,to a prodigious height.i<> REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.I had not been long in the area of St. Paul’s,when I felt the third fhock, which though fome-what lefs violent than the two former, the fearudied in again, and retired with the fame rapidi¬ty, and I remained up to my knees in water, tho’I had gotten upon a fmall eminence at fomc dif-tanee from the river, with the ruins of feveral in-terveening houfes to break its force. At this timeI toe*, notice the waters retired fo impetuoufly, thatfome veflels wrere left quite dry, which rode in fe-ven fathom water: the river thus continued alter¬nately rufhing on and retiring feveral times toge¬ther in fuch fort, that it was juftly dreaded Lifbonwould new meet the fame fate, which a few yearsago had befallen the city of * Lima.‘ Perhaps you may think the prefent dolefulfubieft here concluded ; but, alas ! thfe horrors ofthe ffrll of November, are fufficient to fill a vo¬lume. As foon as it grew dark, another feene pre-fented irfelf little lefs fhocking than thofe alreadydeferibed—the whole city appeared in a blaze,which was fo bright that I could eafily fee to readby it. It may be faid without any exaggeration,it was on fire at lead in a hundred different placesat once, and thus continued burning for fix daystogether, without intermiffion, or the lead at¬tempt being made to dop its progrefs.‘ l could never learn, that this terrible fire wasowing to any fubterraneous eruption, as feme re¬ported, but to three caufes, which ail concurringat the fame time, will naturally account for theprodigious havock it made ; the fird of Novemberbeing All Saints Day, a high fedival among thePortuguefe, every altar in every church and chap¬el (fome of which have more than twenty) was il¬luminated with a number of wax tapers and lamps,asREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 171 as olftorpary, thefe fettirsg fire to the curtains andtimber work that fell with the fhock, the confla-: gration foon fpread to the neighbouring houfes,and being there joined w:th the fires in the kitch¬en chimnies, increafed to fuch a degree, that itmight eafily have deftroyed the whole city, thoughi no other caufe had concurred, efpecialy as it metwith no interruption.‘ But what would appear incredible to you, werethe faft lefs public and notorious, is, that a gang! of hardened villains, who had been confined, andi got out of prifon when the wall fell, at the firft8 (hock, were'bufily employed in fetting fire to thofebuildings, which flood fome chance of efcapingthe general deflrudlion.« The fire, by fome means or other, may be faidSI to have deftroyed the whole city, at lead everyI# thing that was grand or valuable in it; and theli damage on this occafion is not to be eflimated.‘ The whole number of perfons that perifhed,ii including thofe who were burnt, or afterwards:i crufhed to death whilft digging in the ruins, is: fuppofed, in the lowelt calculation, to amount tola more than fixty thoufand; and though the damagei; in other refpecfls cannot be computed, yet you mayII form fome idea of it, when I allure you, that thisextenfive and opulent city, is now nothing but avaft heap of ruins, that the rich and poor are atprefent upon a level, fome thoufands of familieswhich but the day before had been eafy in theircircumflances, being now fcattenjd about in thefields, wanting every conveniency of life, and find¬ing none able to relieve them.‘ A few days after the firft condensation was o-ver, I ventured down into the city, by the fafeft| ways I could pick out, to fee if there was a pofli-j bility of getting any thing out of my lodgings, butthe18 REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES.the ruins were now fo augmented bv the late fire,that I was fo far from, being rbie to drfiiuguifii theindividual foot where the houfe Itood, that 1 couldnot even ditlinguifh tlie flwet, anddit the moun¬tains of flones and rupbifh which rofe on every ,fide. Some days after I ventured down again withfeveral porters, who, having long plied in thefeparts of the town, were well acquainted with the-fuuation of particular houfes; by their allifiance^I at laft difcovered the Ipot; but was fopn con¬vinced, that to dig for any tiring there, beftdes thedanger of fuch an attempt, would never anftver .the expence.‘ On both the times when I attempted to makethis fruitlefs fearch, efpecully the firfl, there camefuch an intolerable fteneh from the dead bodies, 'that I was ready to faint away, and though it didnot feetn fo great this lafl: time, yet it had nearlybeen more fatal to me, as I contrafted a fever byit, but of which, God be praifed, I loon got thebetter. However, this made me fo cautious for !the future, that I avoided pauing near certain pla¬ces, where the flench was fo excefiive that people1began to dread an infcclicn : a gentleman told me,that going into the town a few-'days after theearthquake, he faw feveral bodies lying in theftreets, fome horribly mangled, as he fuppofed bythe dogs, others half burnt, fome quite roaded ; *!and that in certain places, par-ticuiarjy near thedoors of churches, they lay in vaft heaps piled one.upon anotlier.’yExtracted from a Volume of Letters, puliPncda few years ago by the Reverend Mr. Davy—SeeGregory’s Economy of Nature vol. 2nd. page 396,to 375 inclufive, fecond edftion., EARTH-REMARKABLE EARTHQTJAKI,S. iryEARTHQUAKES, IN CALABRIA ANDSICILY, IN 1783.HE year, 1783 ”ras fatally marked by the de-foliation of fome of the moll fertile, mo ftautiful, end mod celebrated provinces of Europe,he two Calabrias, with a part of Sicily, wereoomed to be a feene of the mod tremenduous,I Id tlie moft fatal earthquakes that ever weretown, even in thofe volcanic regions. The fid!ock happened about noon, on the fifth of Febru-", an»i was fo violent as to involve almofl theole of Calabria in ruin. This was but the com^ncement of a fjucceflion of earthquakes, whichsginning from the city of Amantea, on the coafl| the Tyrrhene fea, proceeded along the wefternItaft to Cape Spartivento, and up the eaftern asr as Cape D’Alice ; during the whole of whichj-ace not a town was left undeftroyed.I During two years repeated fliocks continued togitate the affrighted minds of the inhabitants offalabria and Sicily, but the principal mifehiefs a-|fe in the months of February and March in thejjfft year. For feveral months the earth continu¬al in an unceafmg tremor, which at certain inter-|ls iiicreafed to violent fhccks, fome of whichHere beyond defeription dreadful. Thefe fliocksifere fometimes horizontal, whirling like a vortex,id fometimes by pulfations, or beating from theittom upwards, and were at times fo violent thatne heads of the largeft trees almoil touched the•ound on either fide. The rains, during a greatirt of the time, were continual and violent, oft-1 accompanied with lightning, and furious gullsf wind. All that part of Calabria, which lay“tween the 38th and 39th degrees «Fumed a newao REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,appearance, honies, churches, towns, cities, andvillages were buried in one prcmifcuous ruin,Mountains were detached from their foundations]and carried tc a cpnliderable diftance. Rivers dif-appeared from their beds, and again returned andoverflowed the adjacent country. Streams of wa¬ter fuddenly guflied out of the ground, and fpran jto a conflderable height. Large pieces of the fur-face of the plain, feveral acres in extent, were car¬ried five hundred feet from their former fituationdown into the bed of the river, and left Handingat nearly the diftance of a mile, fmrounded bylarge plantations of olive and mulberry trees, andcorn growing as well upon them as upon the groundfrom which they were fepaiated. Amidft the.fefeenes of devaftation, the efcapes of fome of theunhappv fuflerers is extremely wonderful. Someof the inhabitants of houfes which were thrownto a confiderable diftance, were dug up from theirruins unhurt. But thefe inftances were few, andthofe who were fo fortunate as to preferve theirlives in fuch fituations, were consent to purchafeexifteuce at the expence of broken liijibs and themoft dreadful contufions.During this calamitous feene, it is impoflible toconceive the horrors and wretchednefs of the un¬happy inhabitants. The jaws of death were open*ed to fwalltfw them up, ruin had feized all theirpoflcfTbns, and thofe dear connections to whichthe% might have looked for confolaribn in their for-rows, were for ever buried in the mercilefs abyfs-All was ruin and defolation. Every countenanceuindicaud the extremity of affiidtion and defpairJIand the whole country formed a wide feene of un-1deferibabie horror.One of the'nioft remarkable towns which wasdeftroyed was Cafal Nuova, where the PrinctfsGeraceREMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES. 31jerace Grimakli, with more than tour thoufandif her fubjetls, ptnihed in the fame inftant. Annhabitant happening to be on the fummit of aieighbouring hill at the moment of the (hock, andpoking earneftiy back to the reiidence of his fa-ni!y, could fee no other remains of it than a whiteloud which proceeded from the ruins of the houf.s. At Bagnara, about three thoufand perfonskilled, and not fewer at Radicina and Palma,jit Terra Nuova four thoufand four hundred per¬illed, and rather more at Semniari. The inhabi-nds of Sciila efcaped from their houfes on the! Tebrated rock of that name, and with thetr prince,Tcended to a little harbour at the foot of the hill,it, in the courfe of the night, a ftupenduous1 >ave, which is faid to have been driven three: iles over land, on its return fwept away the un-i rtiir.ate prince, with turn thoufand four hundredlid feventy-three of his fubje&s. It is computed■jiat not lefs than forty thoufand perfons perifliedit this earthquake.Greg. Econ. of Nature, vol.2nd. page 375 to 378 inchEARTHQAKES IN SCOTLAND.I LTHO’ this kingdom is happily free from thedreadful calamities experienced in many o-r parts of the world, from thefe terrible con-: fions of nature, yet occafional (hocks of earth-fekes have been felt in Scotland, within thefe 13,.’.rs. William Creech, Efq. in his third letteri hr John Sinclair, annexed to the Statiftical Ac-iknt of Edinburgh, (Vol. VI. p. 624 ) among o«] r phyfical phenomena, enumerates the follow-•mg:2i REMARKABLE EARTHQUAKES,ing: Upon the 16th June, 1786, a fmart faoc'of an earthquake was felt at Whitehaven, in Cumberland, which extended to the Me of Alan anDublin, and was alfo felt in the S. W. parts cScotland. Upon the lithof Aiig. 1786, averalarming /hock of an earthquake was felt abouitwo o’clock A. M. in the N. of England, viz. Nolithumberhnd, Cumberland, and in Scotland, aero!the ill and, and as far N. as Argyllfnirt, and in qthefe places at the fame iaftant of time. TlJfhock extended above 150 miles from S. to N. ar|I0« from E. to W.—“ Upon the 25th Jan. 1 75'the river Tiviot became fuddenly dry, and contiiufed fo for 4 hours, and then flowed with its tifal fulnefs.” “ On the 26th ja.i. {787, a fm<iihock of an earthquake was felt in the pariihes «Campfie and Strathblane, 10 miles N. of Gla.gow, and about to A M. A rdlhing noife w.heard to preside the ftmek from the S. E. 'I'/night preceding this earthquake, a piece of grournear Alloa, on which a mill was built, fuddenfunk a foot and a half.”—u On Thurfday, 5!Nov 1780, between 7 and tlx P. M, a fmurt Ihooof an earthquake was felt at Crieff, at Comrie, anfor many miles round that difhidl, wldcii is abo55 miles from Edinburgh.” “ At Mr. Rebelfon’s houfe of Lawefs, a.rumbling noife like d; ■tant thunder had been heard at intervals for tvmonths; and it-the time of the fhock, a noife If.the difeharge of diltant artillery was diitimri;heard. Mr. Dundas and Mr. Bruce of Edinburgwere (handing before the tire in the drawing rob ,and they deferibed the (hock, as if a great mal .had fuddenly ftruck the foundation of the hoiwith violence. At. the village of Comrie, theirhabitants left their houfes and ran Vo the opalfields.”™” On the 1 nh Nov. A. M. in the fan.RFjyr ARK ABLE EARTHQUAKES. 23jplace, another thock vszs fth, which was muchmore violent than that of the 5th. It was aceonv-I panic cl with a hollow rumbling noife. The ice ona piece of water near the heufe of Lawcrff, wasjfhh[ere:l to atoms.” Mr. Gveec'h, after quotingifr*m the London Chronicle, the account of theearthquake at Sorgo San Sepokrc, on the 3®th cfjSept. 1.78*, addsj « It is very extraordinary, thation the fame day, near 3 P. M. two or three dtf-tineb flitvpis were felt at the honfe of Parfon’s!Green,jfcrisihin a mile of Edthburgh. The houfeis fitjuated on the N. fide of Arthur’s Seat, which■s compofcd of an immenfe bine granite. Several/ilitors were in the houfe to dine with the family,md the whole company ran down flairs from thejlrawing-rootn, and met the fervarits from the kit¬chen in the lobby, equally alarmed at what hadnppened. They deferibed the fenfation, as ifhe houfe had received two or three vi lent blowsn the foundation, fo that all the furniture fliook.”|‘ On the iota Nov. 1792, three repeated (Lockspf an earthquake, accompanied with a hollowambling noife, like that of diftant thunder, werebit at Loch Rannocb, in Perthfhire ” Mr. Creechoncludes his account of tlvfe and other phyficathenomena, with an extraU of a letter ffom|fPomrie, inPerthiLire,” dated “Nov. 30throm which we fnail only quote the fadls hated.f]< We have of late, been greatly alarmed with fe-leral very fevere fhccks of an earthquake. TheySvere more fenfible and alarming, than any felt for¬merly, and the noife attending them was uncom-nonly loud and tremulous: It appeared probablynore fo, from the hrlinefs of the atmofphere, andhe reverberation of the furrounding mountains,il'he houfes were greatly fhaktn, and the furnitureoh'cd from its place. The weather had been un-com-24 remarkable earthquakes.commonly variable, and changed from high guftdof wind, to a deep calm, a few days before thlfevereft fhocks of the earthquake. The air wa$moift and hazy, and the clouds feemed chargedwith ele&ricity.”Eucyclopxdia.Perthenfis, vol. yth. EAR.Two fhocks of an earthquake, (fimilar to thof#which began at the fame place fome years ago) have!been lately felt at and near Comrie in Perthfnirej!one on the 17th of January, and the other on thej24th of February.The motion of the earth was from Well to EaUltand laded about two feconds, but the fubterrane*!ous noile, which accompanied it, continued mucllonger.Scots Magazine for Match, i -prFINIS.G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,SALTMARKET, 1800.