oD rno'A THE lo B-nnivfCOMICAL SAYINGSOFPAI>I> Y F»OM COMK,WITH£lis Coat Buttoned. Behind.Being an elegant Conference between English Tom andIrish Teague: with Paddy’s Catechism, his opinionof Purgatory, the State of the Dead ; and his Sup¬plication when a Mountain Sailor.ALSO,A CREED FOR ALL ROMISH BELIEVERS.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.Sayings of Paddy from Cork." J par v r.Toir. Good morrow,- sir, this is a very cold day.Teag. Arra, dear honey, yesternight was a verycold morning.Tom. Well brother travellerofwhat nation art thou.Teag. A rra dearshoyj come from my own kingdomTom. Why I know that but where is thy kingdom?Teag. \llelue dear honey, don’t you know Corkin Ireland?Tom. You fool, Cork is not a kingdom hut a city.Teag. Then dear shoy, I’m sure it’s in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reason you have come andleft your own country ?! eag. Arra, dear honey, by shaint Patrick, theyhave got such comical laws in our country, that theywill put a man to death in perfect health; so to befree and plain with you, neighbour, I was obliged tocome away, for I did not choose to stay among sucha people that can hang a poor man when theyplease if he either steals, robs, or k:ks a man.Tom. Ay, but I take you to be more of an honestman, than to steal, rob, or kill a man.feag. Honest! I am perfectly honest, when I wasbut a child, my mother wouhl have trusted mewith a house full of mill-stones. [murder?Tom. What was the matter, was you guilty ofTeag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody',but fancied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwardsmade it my own.Pom. Very well, boy, and did you keep it so f” Teag. Keep it, I would have kept it with all myheart, while I lived,'death itself could not have part¬ed us, but the old rogue, the gentleman, being a jus¬tice of piece himself, had me tried for the rights ofit, and how I came by it, and so took it again.Tom. And flow did ytju, plear yourself withoutpunishment ?Peag. Arra, dear slroy, 1 told him a parcel of lies,3but they would not believe me ; for I said that I gotit from my father when it was a little pistol, and Ihad kept it till it had grown a gun, and was design¬ed to use it well until it had grown a big canon,and then sold it to the military. They all fell alaughing at me as I had been a fool, and bade mego home to my mother and clean the potatoes,fom. How long is it sipep you left your country ?l eag Arra, dear honey, 1 do not mind whether itit be a fortnight or four months, but I think myselfit is a long time: they tell me my mother is deadsince, but 1 wont believe it until I get a letter fromher own hand, for she is a very good scholar, sup¬pose she can neither write nor readTom. Was you ever in England before?I'eag. Aye, that I was, and k> Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you when you wasin Scotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kick’d my arsefor me, and the teason was because l would not paythe whole of the liquor that was drunk in the com¬pany, though the landlord and his own sons gota mouthful about of it all, and I told them it was atrick upon travellers, first to drink his liquor, andthen kick him out of doors,Tom. I really think they have used you badly,but could \ou not beat litem?I cag. That’s what I dead, beat them all to theirown contentment, but there was one of them strong¬er than me, who would have killed me, if the othertwo had noi pu leil me away and I had to run forit, till his passion was over, then they made usdrink and gree again ; we shook hands, and made abargain never to harm other more ; but this bargaindid not last long, for, as 1 was kissing his mouth,by shaint Patrick, 1 bit his nose, which caused himto beat me very sore for my pains.loin. Well Paddy, what calling was you when inScotland ?4Teag. Why sir, I was no business at all, but whatdo you call the green tree that’s like a whin bush,people makes a thing to sweep the house of it?Tom. O yes, Paddy they call it the broom.Teag. Ay, ay, you have it, I was a gentleman’sbroom, only waited on his horses, and washed thedishes for the cook ; and when my master rode a-hunting, I went behind with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Paddy, it was the groom you mean.But 1 fancy you was cook’s-mate, or kitchen-boy.7 eag No, t o, it was the broom that 1 was, and ifI had staid there till now, I miuht have been ad¬vanced as high as my master, for the ladies lovedme so well that they laughed at me.Tom. ’ hey might admire you for a foolTeag. What, sir, do you imagine that I am not afool ? no, no, my master asked counsel of me in allhis matters, and I always gave him a reason forevery thing : I told him one morning, that he wenttoo soon to the hunting, that the bates were not gotout of their beds, and neither the barking of hornsnor the blowing of dogs could make them rise, itwas such a cold morning that night; so the\ all ranaway that we catched, when we did not see them.Then my master told my words to many gentle¬men that were at dinner with him, and they admiredme for want of judgment, for my head was all of alump ; adding, they were going a-fishing along withmy master and me in the afternoon ; but 1 told themthat it was a very unhappy thing for any man to goa-huntingin the morning, and a-fishing in the after¬noon : they would try it, but they had better staidnt home, for it came on a most terrible fine night ofsouth-west rain, and even down wind ; so the fishesgot all below the water to keep them dry from theshower, and we catched them all but got none.Tom. HowlongdidyouservethatgentlemanPaddyTeag. Arra, dear honey, I was with him six weeks,and he beat me seven-5Tom. For what did he beat you ? was it for yourmadness and foolish tricks ?.Teag. Dear shoy, it was not; but for being tooinquisitive, and going sharply about business. First,he sent me to the post office to enquire if there wereany letters for him; so when I came there, said I,! is there any letters here for my master to-day.—Then they asked who was my master; sir, said I,it is very bad manners in you to ask any gentleman’sname ; at this they laughed, mocking me, and saidthey cou'd give me none, if I would not tell mymaster’s name; so I returned to my master, andtold him the impudence of the fellow, who wouldgive me no letters unless I would tell him yourname, master. My master at this flew in a passion,and kicked me down stairs, saying, go you rogue,and tell my name directly, how can the gentlemangive letters when he knows not who is asking forthem. Then I ret uriied and told my masters name,so they told there was one for him. I looked at it,being very small, and asking the price of it, theytold me it was sixpence: sixpence, said f, will youtake sixpence for that small thing, and selling big¬ger ones for twopence; fault I am not such a bigfool; you think to cheat me now, this is not a con-scionable way of dealing, I’ll acquaint my masterwith it first; so 1 came and told my master howthey would have sixpence for his letter, and wasselling bigger ones for twopence; he took up myhead and broke his cane w ith it, calling me a thou¬sand fools, saying, the man was more just than totake any thing but the right for it; but 1 was surethere was none of them right, buying and sellingsuch dear penny-worths. So 1 came again for mydear sixpence letter; and as the fellow was shufflingthrough a parcel of them, seeking for it again, tomake the best of a dear market, I pickt up two, andhome I comes to my master, thinking he would bepleased with what I had done; now, said I, master,6I'think I have put a trick upon them fellows, forselling the letter to you. What have you done ?I have only taken other two letters : here’s one foryou master, to help your dear penny-worth, and I’llsend the other to my mother to see whether she bedead or alive, for she’s always angry l don’t write toher. I had not the word well spoken, till he gotup his stick and beat me heartily for it, and sent meback to the fellows again with the two. I had veryill will to go, but nobody would buy them of me.Tom. Well, Paddy, I think you was to blame andyour master too, for 1m ought to have taught youhow to go about these affairs, and not beat, you so.feag. Arra dear honey, I bad too much wit ofray own to be (cached by him, or any body else :lie began to instruct me after that, how 1 shouldserve the table, and such nasty things as those :onenight I rook beo a roasted fish in one hand, and apiece of bread in the other ; the old gentleman wasso saucy he would not take it, and told me I shouldbring nothing to him without a trencher below it.The same night as he was going to bed, he calledfor his slippers and pish-pot, so 1 clapt a trencherbelow the pish-pot, and another below the slippers,and ben I t>oes, one in every hand; no sooner didI enter the room, than he threw the pish-pot at mewhich broke both my head and live pish-pot at oneblow; now, said 1, the devil is in my master alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time he coun¬termands at another. Next day 1 went with him tothe market to buy a sack of potatoes^ I went untothe pntatoe-monger, and asked what he took for thefu 1 of a -Scot's cog, he weighed them in, he askedno less than fburpence ; fourpence, said l, it I werebut In Dublin', i could get the double of that fornothing, and in Cork and Linsale tar cheaper;them is hut small things like pease, said I, hut thepotatoes in my country is as big as your head, finembat, all made up in blessed mouthiul ; the potatoesgmerchant called me a liar, and my master calledme a fool, so the one fell a-hicking me, and the o-ther a-cuffing me, I was in such bad bread amongthem, that I called myself both a liar and a fool tQget off alive.Tom. And how did you carry your potatoeshome from the market.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I carried the horse andthem both, besides a big loaf, and two bottles ofwine; for I put the old horse on my back, anddrove the potatoes before me, and when 1 tied theload to the loaf, I had nothing to do but to carrythe bottles in my hand : but bad Iuck to the way asI came home, for a nail out of the heel of my footsprung a leak in my brogue, which pricked the verybone, bruised the skin, and made my brogue itselfto blood, and I having no hammer by me, but ahatchet I left at home, I had to beat down the nailwith the bottom of the bottle; and, by the book,dear shoy, it broke to pieces, and scattered thewine in my mouth.Tom. And how did you recompense your masterfor the loss of the bottle of wine ?Teag. Ana, dear shoy, I had a mind to cheat himand myself too, for.I took the bottle to a black¬smith, and desired him to mend it that 1 might goto the butcher and get it full of bloody water, buthe told me he could not work in any thing but steeland iron. Arra, Said I, if I were in my own king¬dom I could get a blacksmith who would make abottle out of a stone, and a stone out of nothing.Tom. And how diet you trick your master out of it ?1 eag. VV by, the old rogue began to chide me, ask¬ing what way I broke it, then 1 held up the otheras high as my head, and let it fall to the ground ona stone, which broke it all to pieces likewise, nowsaid 1, master, that’s the 'vay, and he beat me veryheartily until 1 had to shout out mercy and murderall at once./8Tom. Why did you not leave him when he usedyon so })adly ?Tettg. Arra, dear shoy, I could never think to leavehlrfi while 1 could eat, he gave me sc many goodvictuals, and promised to prefer me to be his ownbone-picker. But by shant Patrick, I had to runaway with my life or all was done, else I had lostftiy dear shoul and body too by him, and thencome home much poorer than I went away. Thegreat big bitch dog, which was my master’s bestbeloved, put bis head into a pitcher to lick out somemilk, and when it was in he could n»t get it outand I to save the pitcher got the hatchet and cut offthe dog’s head, and then l had to break the pitcherto get out the head ; by this 1 lost both the dog andthe pitcher. My master hearing of this swore hewould cut the head of me, for the poor dog wasmade useless, and could not see to follow anv bodyfor want of his eyes. And when I heard of this, Iran away with my owm head, for if I had wanted itI had lost my eyes too, then I would not have seenthe road to Port-Patrick, through Glen-nap; butby shant Patrick 1 came home alive in spito of them.To7n. O rarely done, Paddy you behaved like aman ! but what is the reason that you Irish peopleswear always by shant Patrick ?Teag. Arra dear hone/, he was the best shant inthe world, the father of all good people in the king¬dom, he has a great kindness for an Irishman, whenhe hears him calling on his name.Tom. But Paddy, is saint Patrick yet alive ?Teag. Arra dear honey, 1 don’t know whether hebe dead or a ive, but it is a long time iince theykilled him ; the people all turned heathens, but hewould not change his profession and w-as going torun the country with it, and for taking the gospelafvay to England, so the barbarous tories of Dub¬lin Cut ted off his head ; and he swimmed over toEngland, and carried his bead in his teeth.$PART II.Tom. How did you get out of Scotland ?Teag. By the law, dear honey, when l came toPort-Patrick, and saw my own kingdom, I knew Iwas safe at home, but I was clean dead, and almostdrowned before I could get riden over the water ;for I, with nine passengers more, leapt into a lit¬tle young boat, having but four men dwelling in alittle house, in the one end of it, which was allthacked with deals: and alter they had pulled upher tether stick, and laid her long halter over hermane, they pulled up a long sheet, like three pairof blankets, to the riggen of the house, and thewind blew in that, which made her gallop up onehill and dowm another, till I though she wouldhave run to the world’s end.Tom. Well, Paddy, and where did you go whenyou came to Ireland again.Teag. Arra, dear honey, and where did I go butto my own deal cousin, who was now become veryrich by the death of the old buck his father; whodied hut a few weeks before I went over, and theparish had to bury him out of pity, and it did notcost him a farthing.Tom. And what intertainment did you get there ?I eag. O my dear shoy, 1 was kindly used as ano¬ther gentleman, and I would have staid there longenough, but when a man is poor his friends thinklittle of him : I told him I was going to see my bro¬ther Harry: Hany, said he, Harry is dead: dead,said I, and who kill'd him? Why, said he, death:Allelieu, dear honey, and where did he kill him?said I ; in his bed says he. Arra, dear honey’, saidI, if he had been on Newry mountains, with hisbrogues on, and his broad sword by his side, all thedeath in Ireland had not killed him : O that impu¬dent fellow death, if he had let him alone till hedied for want of butter-milk and potatoes, 1 amsure had lived all the day’s of his life.r 10Tom. In all your travels'when abroad, did you ne¬ver see none of your countrymert to inform you ofwhat happened at home concerning your relations?Teag. Atra, dear slipy, I saw none but Tom Jack,one day in the street; but when 1 came to him, itwas not him, but and just like him.Tom. On what account did you go a travelling ?Teag. Why a recruiting Sergeant listed me to bea captain, and after all advanced nse no higher thana soldier itself, but only he called me his dear coun¬tryman recruit ; for I did not know what the regi¬ment was when 1 saw them. I thought they wereall gentlemens’ sons, and coHegionqis, when I sawa box like a biote upon their bellies, until 1 saw Gfor King George upon it, and R for God blesshim : ho, ho, said I. I shant be long here.Tom. O then Paddy, you deserted from them ?Tea3. I hat's what l did, and ran to the mountainslike a buck, and ever since w hen 1 see any soldiersI close my eyes, lest they should look & know meTom. And what exploits did you when you was asoldier ?Teag. A fra, dear honey, 1 killed a man.Tom. And how did you do that ?Tcag. Arra, deaf honey, when he dropit his swmrdI drew mine, and advanced boldly to him and thencutted off his foot.Tom. O then what a his fool was you ; for youought first to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore I engaged him, else I had not done it.Tom. O then Paddy, you acted like a fool, butyouare not such a big fool as many take you to be,you might pass for a philosopher,ieag. \ fulusipher, my father was a fulusipher,besides ho was a man under great authority by law',condemning the just and clearing the guilty. Doyou know how they call the horse’s mother ?Tom. Why they call her a mare.uTeag. A mare, ay very well minded, my fatherwas a mare in Cork.Tom- & nd what riches was left you by the deathof your mother ?Teag. Bad luck to her own barren belly, forshe lived in great plenty, and died in great pover¬ty ; devoured up all or she died but two hens anda pockful of potatoes, a poor estate for an Irishgentleman, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of the hens andpotatoes, did you sow them ?Teag. Arra, dearshoy, 1 sowed them in my belly,and sold the hens to a cadger.Tom. What business did your mother follow after ?Teag. Greatly in the merchant way.Tom. And what sort of goods did she deal in?Teag. Dear honey, she went through the countryand sold small fishes, onions, and apples, boughthens and eggs, and then hatchet them herself. Iremember of a long-necked cock she had, of anoversea brood, that stood on the midden and pickedall the stars out of the north-west, so they worenever so thick there since.Tom. Now paddy, that’s a bull surpasses all; butis there none of that cock’s offspring alive now?Teag. Arra, dear slioy, I don’t think there are,but it is a pity but they had, for they would fly' withpeople over the sea, which v ould put the use ofships out of fashion, and nobody be drowned at all.Tom. Very well Paddy, but in all your travelsdid you ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay that’s what I did and a w icked wife too;and my dear shoy I can’t tell whether she is gone toPurgatory or the parish of Pig-tantrum ; for shetoldme she should certainly die the first opportunityshe could get, as this present evil world was notworth the waiting on, or site would go and see whatgood things are in the world to come; so when thatold rover called the Fever, came raging over theuwhole kingdom, she went awayand died out of spite,leaving me nothing but two motherless children.Tom. O but Paddy, you ought to have gone to adoctor and got some pills and physic for her.Teag. By shaint Patrick I had as good a pill of myown as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what 1 mean; youought to have brought the doctor to feel her pulse,and let blood of her if he thought needful.Teag. Yes, that’s what 1 did, for I ran to the doc¬tor whenever she died, and sought something for adead or dying woman ; the old foolish devil was athis dinner, and began to ask me some dirty ques¬tions, which I answered distinctly.Tom. And what did he ask, Paddy?Teag. Why, he asked me how did my wdfe go tostool, to which I answered, the same way that otherpeople go to a chair; no, said he, that’s not whatI mean, how does she purge? Ana, Mr Doctor,said, I, all the file in Purgatory wont purge herclean ; for she has both a cold and stinking breath.Sir, said he, that is not what I ask you ; whetherdoes she shit thick or thin ? Arra, Mr Doctor, saidI, it is sometimes so thick and hard that you maytake it in your hand, and cut it like a piece of cheeseor pudding, and at other times you may drink itor sup it with a spoon. At this he flew into a mostterrible rage, and kicked me down stairs, and wouldgive me nothing to her, but called me a dirty va¬gabond for speaking of shit before ladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury yourwife when she died ?Teag. O my dear shoy. she was buried in all man¬ner of pomp, pride, and splendour; a fine coffin,with cords in it, and within the coffin along withherself, she got a pair of new brogues, a penny can¬dle, a good hard-headed old hammer, with anIrish sixpenny piece, to pay her passage at the gate,and what more could she look for.13To7tt. I really think you gave her enough alongwith her, but you ought to have cried for her, if itwas no more but to be in the fashion.Teag. And why should I cry without sorrow?when we hired two criers to cry all the way beforeher to keep her in the fashion.Tom. And what do they cry before a dead woman ?Teag. Why they cry the common cry, or funerallament that is used in our Irish country.Tom. And what manner of cry is that, Paddy?Teag. Dear Tom, if you don’t know I’ll tell you,when any dies there is a number of criers goes be¬fore, saying, Luff, fuff, fou. allelieu, dear honey,w'hat aileth thee to die ! it was not for want ofgood buttermilk and potatoes.PAR r III.Tom. Well Paddy, and w hat did you do whenyou wife died ?Teag, Dear hone)', what would I do ; do youthink I was such a big fool as to die to, I am sureif I had I would not have got fair play when I amnot so old yet as my father was when he died.Tom. No, Paddy, that’s not what 1 mean, wasyou sorry, or did you weep for her ?Teag. Weep for her, by shaint Patrick I would, not weep nor yet be sorry, suppose my own motherand all the women in Ireland had died seven yearsbefore 1 was born.Tom. v\ hat did you do with your children whenshe died ?Teag. Do you imagine I was such a big fool asbury my children alive along with a dead woman;arra, dear honey, we always commonly give no¬thing along with a dead person, but an old shirt, awinding sheet a big hammer, with a long candle,and an Irish silver threepenny piece?Tom. Dear Paddy, and what do they make of allthese things?14-Teag. Tlien, Tom, since you are so inquisitiveyou rimst go ask the priest.Tom. Wliat came of your family then Paddy?Teag. And what should I make of them, do youimagine that I should give them into the hands ofthe butchers, as they had been a parcel of younghogs : by sliaint Patrick 1 had more unnaturality inme, than to put them in an hospital as others do.Tom. No, I suppose you would leave them withyour friends ?Teag. Ay, 33^, a poor man’s friend is sometimesworse than a protest enemy, the best friend 1 everhad in the world was my own pocket while mymoney lasted ; but I left two babes between thepriest’s door and the parish church, because lthought it was a place of mercy, and then set oeitfor England in quest of another fortune.Tom. And did you not take good night with yourfriends ere you came away.Teag. Arra, dear honey, 1 had no friends in theworld but an Irish half crown, and I would havebeen very sorry to parted with such a dear pocket-companion at such a time.Tom. I fancy Paddy, you’ve come off with whatthey call a moon shine flitting.Teag. You lie l;ke a thief now for 1 did not see sunmoon, nor stars all the night then; for I set out fromCork at the dawn of night & had travelled twentymiles all but twelve before gloaming in morning.Tom. And where d d you go to take shipping?Teag. 'rra dear honey, I came to a country villagecalled Dublin, as big a city as any market town in allEngland, where I got myself aboard a little youngboat with a parcel of fellows and a long leather bag.I supposed them to be tinkers, until I asked wh.tthey carried in that leather sack ; they told me itwas the English mail they were going over with ;then said I, is the milns so scant in England, thatthey must send over their corn to Ireland to grind it,15the comical cunning fellou;s persuaded me it was sothen I went down to a little house below the water,hard by the rig-back of the boat, and laid me downbn their leather sack, where I slept myself almost todeath with hunger. Dear Tom, to tell you plainly,when I waked I did rot know where I was, butthought I was dead and buried, for 1 found nothingall around me but wooden walls and timber above.Tom. "Ind how did you come to j ourself to knowwhere you was at last?Teag. By the law, dear shoy, I scratched rhyhead in a hundred parts, and then set me down tothink upon it, so 1 minded it was my wife that w'asi dead and not me, and that 1 was alive in the youngpost-boat, with the fellows that carries over theEngland meal from the Irish milns.Tom. O then Paddy, I am sure you was gladwhen you found yourself alive ?Teag Arra, dear shoy, I wras very sure I w-asalive, but 1 did not think to live long, so I thoughtit was better for me to steal and be hanged, than tolive all my days & die direct!)’ w'ith hunger at last.Tom. Had you no meat or money with you?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, 1 gave all the money to thecaptain of the house, or goodman of the ship to takeme into the sea, or over to England, & when I waslike to eat my brogues for want of victuals, I drewmy hanger and cut the lock oif the leather sack toget a lick of their meal ; but allelieu, dear shoy, Ifound neither meal nor seed, but a parcel of papersand letters—a poor morsel for a hungry man.fort). O then Paddy, you laid down your honestyfor nothing ?Teag. Ay, ay, I was a great thief, but got noth¬ing to steal.Tom. And how did you get victuals at last ?Teag. Allelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meatand drink, death and life, and every thing else wasout of mind, I had not a thought but one.16Tom. And »liat was that, Paddy?Teag. To go down among the fishes and becomea whale; then I would have lived at ease all mydays, having nothing to do but to drink salt waterand eat caller oysters.Tom. What! was you like to be drowned again ?Teag. Ay, ay, drowned, as cleanly drowned as afish, for the sea blew very loud, and the wind ranso high, that we were all cast aw'ay safe on shore,and not one of us drowned at all.Tom. Where did you go when you came on shore ?Teag, Arra, dear honey, I was not able to g» anywhere, you might cast a knot on my belly, I wasso hollow in the middle, so I went into a gentle¬man’s house, and told him the bad fortune 1 had ofbeing drown; d betueen Ireland and the foot of hisgarden, where we came all safe ashore. But allthe comfort I got of him was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that, Paddy?Teag. Why, he told me, if I had been a good boyat home, 1 needed not to have gone so far to pushmy fortune with an empty pocket; to which I an¬swered, and what magnifies that, as long as I am agood workman at no trade at all.Tom. I suppose, Baddy, the gentleman wouldmake you dine with him ?Teag. I really thought I was, when I saw themroasting and skinning so many black chickens whichwas nothing but a few dead crows they were goingto eat; ho, ho, said I, them is but dry meat at thebest, of all the fowls that fly commend me to thewing of an ox ; but all that came to my share wasa piece of boiled herring and a roasted potatoe, thatwas the first bit of bread I ever ate in England.Tom. Well, Paddy, what business did > ou followafter in England, when you was so poor?Teag. What, sir, do you imagine I was poor whenI came over on such an honourable occasion as tolist, and bring myself to no perferment at all. As I17was an able bodied man in tbeface, I thought to bemade a brigadeer, a grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, oreven one of them blue gowns that holds the fieryStick to the bung-hole of the big cannons, when theylet them off to fright away the French ; I was assure as no man alive ere I came from Cork, the leastpreferment < could get, was to be riding master toa regiment of marines,or oneof the black horseitselfTom. Well Paddy, youseem to be avery clever lit¬tle man to be all in one body, what height are you ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am five feet nothing allbut one inch.Tom. And where in England was it you listed?Teag. A rra, dear shoy, I was going through thatlittle country village, thefamouscity of Chester,thestreets was very sore by reason of the hardness ofmy feet, and lameness of my brogues, so 1 went butvery slowly across the streets, from port to port is apretty long way, but I being weary thought nothingofit; then the people came all crowding to me as 1had been a world’s wonder, or the wandering Jew ?for the rain blew in my face, and (lie wind wettedall my belly, which caused me to turn the backsideof my coat before, and my buttons behind, whichwas a good safeguard to my body, and the starva¬tion of my naked body, for I bad not a good shirt.lorn. I am sure then, Paddy, they would takeyou for a fool ?Teag. No, no, sir, they admired me for my wisdomfor I always turned my buttons before when the windblew behind, but I wondeied bow the people knewmy name and where I came from: for every one toldanother, that was Paddy from Cork: I suppose theyknew my face by seeing my name in the newspapersTom. Well, Paddy, what business did you followin Chester ?Teag. To be sure I was not idle, working at no¬thing at all, a decruiting seargeant came to townwith two or three fellows along with him, one beat.18ing on a fiddle and another playing on a drum, toss¬ing their airs thro’ the streets, as if they were goingto be married. I saw them courting none but youngmen; so to bring myself to no preferment at all, Ilisted for a soldier,—1 was too big for a grandedeer.Tons. What listing money did you get, Paddy ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I got five thirteens and apair of English brogues; the guinea and the rest ofthe gold was sent to London to the king, my mas¬ter, to buy me new shirts, a cockade, and commontreasing for my hat, they made me swear the mali¬cious oath of devilry against the king, the colours,and my captain, telling me if ever 1 desert, and notrun away, that 1 would be shpr, and then whipt todeath through the regiment.Tom. No, Paddy. It is first whipt and then shotyou mean.Teag. Arra, dear slur., it is all one thing at last,but it is be."t to be shot and then whipt, the clever-,est way to die, I’ll warrant you.fom. Mow much pay did you get, Paddy?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat sergeantthat feed me to be a soldier ?lorn. And how should 1 know them I never saw,you fool ?Teag. Dear shoy, you may know him whether yousee him or not, his face is all bored in holes with thesmall pox, his nose is the colour of a lobster-toe, andbis chin like a well washen potatoe, he’s the biggestrogue in our kingdom, you’ll know bim when hecheats you and the wideworld; and another markhe (lights his mouth before he drinks, and blows hisnose before be takes snuff: the rogue height me six¬pence a-day, kill or no kill: and when 1 laid Sundayand Saturday both together, and all the days in oneday, I cant make a penny above fivepence pf it.Tom. You should have kept an account, andasked your arrears once a-month.i’eag. That’s what I did, but he reads a pater-19noster out of liis prayer book, wherein all our namesare writen; so much for a stop-hold to my £un, to-bucklers, to a pair of comical harn hose, with lea¬ther buttons from top to toe; and worst of all, hewould have no less than a penny a-week to a doc¬tor ; arra, said I, 1 never had_a sore finger nor yeta sick toe, all the days of my life, then what have Ito do with the doctor or the doctor to do with me ?Tom. And he did make you pay all these things ?Teag. \y, ay, pay and better pay ! he took mebefore his captain, who bid me pay all was in hisbook. Arra, master captain, said I, you are a co¬mical sort of a fellow now, \ ou might as well makeme pay for my coffin before I be dead, as to pay fora doctor before l be sick; to which be answered in apassion, sir, said be, l have seen many a better manburied without a coffin; sir, said 1 then I'll have acoffin die when I will, if there be as much wood inall the world, or 1 shall not be buried at all. then hecalled for the sergeant, saying, you, sir, go and buythat man’s coffin, and put it in the store till lie die,and stop sixpence a-week of bis pay for it: no, ho,sir, said I, 1 11 rather die without a coffin, and seeknone when i’m dead, but if you are for clipping ano¬ther sixpence off my pay, keep it all to yourself,and I’ll swear ail your oaths of agreement we hadback again, and then seek soldiers where you will.Tom. O then Paddy, how did you end the matter?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, by the nights of shaintPatrick and help of my brogues, I both ended itand mended it, for the next night before that, I gavethem leg bail for my fidelity, and went about thecountry a fortune teller dumb and deaf as 1 was not.Tom, How old was you, Paddy, w hen you wasa soldier last?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all buttwo, and it is only two years since, so 1 want onlyfour years of three dozen yet, & when I live six doz¬en more, I’ll be older than I am, I’ll warrant you.20Tom. O but Paddy, by your accouur, you arcthree dozon of years old already.Teag. O what for a big fool are you now Tom,when you count the years I lay sick ; which time Icount no time at all.A NEW CATECHISM, &c.Tom. Of all the opinions professed in religiontell me now, Paddy, of what profession art thou ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, my religion was tooweighty a matter to carry out of mine own country;I was afraid that you English Presbyte-ians shouldpluck it away from me.Tom. What; Paddy, was your religion such aload that you could not carry it along with you?Teag. Yes, that it was, but I carried it alwaysabout with me when at home, my sweet cross uponmy dear breast, bound to my dear button hole.I'om. And what manner of worship did youperform by that?Teag. Why I adored the cross, the pope, and thepriest, cursed Oliver as black as a crow, and swearsmyself a cut throat against all Protestants andchurch of England.Tom. And what is the matter but you would bea church of Engiandman, or a Scotch Presbyterianyourself, Paddy ?Teag. Because it is unnatural for an Irishman :but had draint Patrick been a Presbyterian, I hadbeen the same.Tom. And for what reason would you be a Pres¬byterian then, Paddy ?Teag. Becanse they have liberty to eat fleshin lent and every thing that’s fit for the belly.Tom. What, Padd y, are you such a lover of fleshthat you would change your profession for it ?Teag. 0 yes, that's what I would, I love flesh ofall kinds, sheeps’ beef, swine's mutton, hare’s flesh,eiiancl lien’s venison ; but our religion is one of thehungriest in all the world, ah ! but it makes myteeth to weep and my belly to water, when I seethe Scotch Presbyterians, and English churchmen,in time of lent, feeding upon bubs’ bastards, andsheep’s young children.Z’om. Why, Paddy, do you say the bull is a for¬nicator and gets bastards ?Teng. Arra, dear shoy, I never saw the cow andher husband all the days of my life, nor before I wasborn, going to the church to be married, and whatthen can his sons and daughters be but bastards?Tom. What reward will you get when you aredead for punishing your belly so while you are alive?Teng. Py shaint Patrick I’ll live like a king whenPm dead, for I'll neither pay for meat nor drink.Tow?. What, Paddy, do you think that you areto come alive again when you are dead?Teag. O yes, we that are true Roman Catholicswill live a long time after we are dead, when wedie in love with the Priests and the good peopleof our profession.Tom. And what assurance can your priest giveyou of that ?Teng. Arra. dear shoyr, our priest is a greatshaint, a good shoul, who can repeat a pater-nosterand Vve Maria, which will fright the very horneddevil himself, and make him run for it, until he belike to fall and break bis neck.Tom. And what does be give you when yTou aredying that makes you come alive again?Teag. Why he writes a letter upon our tongues,sealed with a wafer, gives us a sacrament in ourmouth, with a pardon, and a direction in onr righthand, who to call for at the ports of Purgatory.1'om. And what money design you to give thepriest for your pardon ?Teag. Dear sh >y, I wish I had the first moneyhe would take for it, l would lather drink it my-22self, and then gave him both my bill and my honestword, payable in the other world.Tom. And how then are you to get a passage tothe other world, or who is to carry you there?Teag. O my dear shoy, Tom, you know nothingof the matter; for when I die, they will bury mybody flesi;, blood, dirt, and bones, only my skinwill be blown up full of wind and spirit, rsy dearshoul 1 mean ; and then 1 will be blown over to theother w orld on the wings of the wind; and afterthat I'll never be killed, banged, nor drowned,noryet die in my bed, for when one hits me a blow, mynew body' will play buff upon it like a bladder.Tom. But what way will you go to the new world,or where is it?Teag. .Aria, dear shoy, the priest knows whereit is, but I do not, but the I’ope of Rome keeps theouter port, shaint Patrick the inner port, and givesus a direction of (he way to shaint Patrick’s palace,which stands on the head of Stalian-loch, w hereI’ll have no more to do but chap at the gate.Tom. -A bat is the need of chapping at the gate,is it not alwaj s open ?Peng. Dear shoy, you know little about it, forthere is none can enter but red hot Irishmen, forwhen i call, Allelieu dear honey, shaint Patrick,countenance your oivn dear couiilrt/man if you will,then the gates will be opened d iectiy for me, forhe knows and loves an Irishman’s voice, as he loveshis own heart.Tom. And w hat entertainment w ill you get when3'ou aie in ?l eag. 0 my dear, we are all kept there until ageneral review, which is commonly once in theweek; and then we are drawn up like as manyyoung recruits, and ail tiie blackguard scoundrelsis pickt out of the ranks, and one half of them issent away to the Elysian fields to emry the weedsfrom among (he potatoes, the other half of them to23the river Sticks, to catch lishes for shaint Patrick’stable, and them that is owing the priests money,is put in the black-hole, and then given to the bandsof a great black bitch of a devil, which is keepedfor a hangman, who whips them up and dowm thesmoky dungeon every morning for six months.Tom, And where does your good people go whenthey are separated from the badTeag. And where would you have them to gobut unto shaint Patrick’s palace, and then theymay go down the back stairs into the garden ofEden, now called Paradise.Tom. VVell Paddy, are you to do as much justiceto a Protestant as a Papist ?Teag. O my dear shoy, the most justice w'e arecommanded to do a Protestant, is to whip and tor¬ment them until they confess themselves in theRomish faith ; and then cut their throats that theymay die believers.Tom. What business do you follow after at pre¬sent ?Teag. Arra, dear shoy, I am a mountain sailor,and my supplication is as follows.faddy's humble petiton, or supplication.() GOOD Christian people, behold a man who hascorn’d through a world of wonders, a hell full of hard¬ships, dangers by sea and dangers by land, and yet I amalive; you may see my hand crooked like a hen’s foot,and that it is no wonder at all considering my sufferingsand sorrows. Oh . oh ! oh ! good people. 1 was a manin my time who had plenty of gold, plenty ol the silver,plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter, beer, beef,and biscuit. And now 1 have nothing; being takenby the Turks and relieved by the Spaniards, lay sixty-six days at the siege of Gibralter, got nothing to eat butsea wreck and raw mussels; put to sea for our safety,cast on the Barbarian coast, among the wicked Algerines,where we were taken and tied with tues and ladders.23horse-locks, and cow-chains ; then cut and castcate yardand testicle quite away : put in your hand and feel howevery female’s made smooth by the sheer bone, where no¬thing is to be seen but what is natural. Then made ourescape to the desert wild wilderness of Arabia; wherewe lived among the wild asses, upon wind, sand, andsapless ling. Afterwards put to sea in the hull ofan oldhouse, where we were tossed above and below the clouds,being driven through thickets and groves by fierce, coarse,calm, and contrary winds: at last we cast upon Salis¬bury plains, where our vessel was dashed to pieces againsta cabbage stock. And now my humble petition toyougoodChristian people, is, for one hundred of your beef, onehundred of your butter, another of your cheese, a cask ofyour biscuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of your rum, witha pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of yoursilver, a few of your halfpence or farthings, a waught ofyour butter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, stockings,or shoes, even a chaw of tobacco for charity’s sake.A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.I BELIE VE the Pope of Rome to be the right heirand true successor of Peter the Apostle, and that he hasa power above the king’s of the world, being spiritual andtemporal; endowed with a communication from beyondthe grave, and can bring up any departed* i. e. or a shoul* he pleases, even as the woman ofdevil in its Endor brought up Samuel to Saul; bystead. the same power he can, assisted by theenchantments of old Manasseh. a king in1st cal. 1 believe also in the Romish Priests, that theyare very civil chaste gentlemen, keep no wives of their own,but partake a little of other men’s when in secret confes¬sion. I acknowledge the worshiping of images, and re¬lics of saints departed to he very just; but if they hearand not help us, O they are but a parcel of ungratefulwretches.