A Cry to the 'whole Earth.S E R M O N,PREACHEDFrom Luke x. 38, 39, 40, 41, 42.BY THE REV. Mr. JOHN WELCH,MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL AT AYR.KILMARNOCK :■PRINTED 3Y H. CRAWFORD,For the 'Boohtellcrt.181CRY TO THE WHOLE EARTH.CCLuke x. 42.Mary hath chosen that good part which shainot be taken away from her.”AS Christ did shew himself loving tcLazarus and his sisters, in that he raised Lazarus from the death of the soulSo did his sisters here shew their thankfulminds unto Christ again ; the one by receiving him into her house, and the otheiby entertaining him in her heart. As htwas God, he was entertained by Mary, andas he was man he was received of Martha.-They both desired to entertain our Saviour, as Jacob and Esau, Gen. xxvii. desired to please their aged father : but Manmade choice of the better part, and wa:preferred before her sister, as Jacob specoOcnest of most dainty venison, and pre¬sented his brother of the blessing: Andalthough the cares of Martha, in her en¬tertainment of Christ, be not to be mis-liked of, yet Mary’s diligence in hearingChrist’s doctrine, is of no purpose prefer¬red to Martha’s care : to declare unto usthat it is much better, with Mary, to study-in the word, and first to seek the kingdom ofGody Matth. vi. 35. than with Martha tolabour in the world, and to neglect thatheavenly kingdom. And yet notwith¬standing, such is the corruption of thisrusty age, that our greatest care is to pro¬vide for this present life, as did that rich;man, Luke xii. that enlarged his barns,wherein to put his store for many years;ibut we never, or very late, do provide for!:hat life to come, like that other rich man,|:hat never thought of heaven till he wastormented in hell, Luke xvi.i In John v. Christ is said to love thiswhole family, and here he is said to comeinto them, for whom he loveth he cannotiut visit, like the friends of Job, Job ii.:hat came to comfort him in his adver sity.^ea, the greatest love that Cnnst bears toany, the oftener he will resort unto them:yea, he will come and dwell with them,4John xiv. 25. Like Jacob that catne downinto Egypt, Gen. xlvii. to his beloved sonJoseph, and dwelt in Goshen. But Christis more kind than Jacob was, for he camenot till he was sent for with horses andchariots : But Christ came of his own ac¬cord to this beloved family. rI hus doth healways prevent us with his manifold bless¬ings. Before he was desired, he came in¬to the world ; he called his apostles beforethey came unto him; and before he was- invited he came into this noble house.O happy house that entertained such aguest; but thrice happy inhabitants towhom - such a guest would vouchsafe tocome! When he came unto the swinishGadarenes, they desired him to depart outof their coasts, Luke viii. preferring theirswine above their Saviour : But this godlyfamily gladly received him into their house,preferred their God before their gold, andtheir souls wealth before their worldly trea¬sure.' They received him into their hous¬es, who had not a house of his own to puthis head into, Matth. viii. 16. wherein theirhospitality is commended, and shall morecertainly be revvarded at that most dreadfulday, Matth. xxv. For which these and suchlike works pf mercy the Lord shall answer■5the sentence of judgment, which is to bedenounced against the wicked, that neverexercised these works of mercy. Let ustherefore learn by their example to be har-bourers, and given to hospitality, which isso often commended to us in the scriptures,and shall be so fichly rewarded at the lastday. These godly fathers, Abraham, Gen.xviii. and Lot, Gen. xix. entertained an¬gels in their houses in the habit of strang¬ers, so we may daily entertain Christ Jesusin the habit of a poor man, of a blind man,of a lame man ; and whatfoevc r is done toanv of those that are his members, he dothaccount thereof as it w ere done to himself.Now, as this virtue of hospitality is com¬mendable in all sorts of persons, so it is ourspecial concern, and more especially com¬mended unto ministers, who are expresslycommanded by the apostles, 1 Tim. iii. 2.among other things' to be given to hospi¬tality : Unto the Levites in the time of thelaw, the Lord appointed cities of refuge.Numb. xxxv. to signify thereby, that theminister’s house should be the poor man’sharbour, and his store their treasury. Butthe true ministers, in these our days, haveno cities of refuge for others, because theyhave none for themselves, they have not to6relieve the wants of others, for they havenot to relieve their own necessities.Now when Martha had once entertainedChrist as he was man, in her house, Marybegan to entertain him as he was God inher heart; she sat at his feet to hear himpreaching. For no sooner came Christinto the house, but he took occasion toteach and instruct the family ; and insteadof bodily food, which they bestowed uponhim, he bestowed unon them the food ofthe soul. Thus doth Christ always shewhimself a thankful guest; for, into what¬soever house he entered, he leaveth betterthings behind him, than he findeth. Heloves not to be in Zaccheus’ debt fm hisdinner; for instead thereof he bringethsalvation to his house: neither does he hereleave his sapper unpaid, for instead there¬of, he bestoweth on them a heavenly ser¬mon. This should be the exercise of ailfaithful ministers, when they are invitedto a great feast, that as they are called thesalt of the earth. Mat. v. 18. to make meatsavoury and w’eil seasoned, and to preserveit from putrefaction ; so the ministers andpastors should season the table with somegodly conferences and communications, tominister grace unto the hearers', Tpln vi. 2o,■Both these sisters were godly women andboth earnest favourites of Jesus Christ;and yet in the manner of their devotions,there is such difference, that the worldlyaffections in the one, may in some sort bemisliked in respect of the godly exerciseand practice of the other, Martha is sereincumbered with much serving, when alittle service had been suflicient; but Maryis attentive to hear the word of God, whichcan never be heard sufficiently. Mary sit-teth to hear the word, Matt. /. r.s Christused to sit, Luke iv. when he preachedthe word; to declare unto us, that theword is to be preached and heard with aquiet mind. In a still night every voice isheard, and when the body is quiet, the mindmost commonly is quiet also. But Marthais troubled with other affairs, and thereforeunfit to hear the word, as is the groundthat is scorched with stones, and over¬grown with weeds and thorns, which isindeed unfit to receive the seed, Matt. vi.or to yiehi any fruit to him that tilleth it.As often therefore as we come to hear thewin d of God, we must not come with dis¬tracted minds, we must not trouble our¬selves with the cares of this life, which, asour Saviour saith, are but thorns to choak8the word, Luke viii. 4. and to make itunfruitful; For as Moses was unfit to talkwith God, till he had put off his shoes,Exod. iii. and the blind man unfit to cometo Christ, until he had thrown away hiscloak, Mark x. so we must think ourselvesunfit to hear the word of God, and unaptfor every heavenly exercise, till we haveput off our shoes, that is our worldly cogi¬tations and affections, and till we have castaway our cloaks, that is, all our lets andimpediments, which may hinder us fromprofiting in our professions.When our minds are quiet; we are fitto deal in heavenly matters: therefore thedoctors conferred sitting jn the temple,and God delighteth to deal with us whenwe are most private! He appeared to Abra¬ham sitting in the door of his tent, Gen.xvii, the Holy Ghost, came down uponthe apostles, and ^filled all the house wherethey were sitting;' the eunuch sitting in hischariot, was called and converted, by thepreaching of Philip,'Act^ viii. 27, Mary satat Jesus’ feet, yet she not sleeping asmany sit at the preacher’s feet; but she satat Christ’s feet and heard his words; asPaul w’as brought up at the feet of Gama¬liel, Acts xxii. and was perfectly instructed9in the law of the fathers. Her humility iscommendable, in that she sat at Jesus’ feet,to declare to us, that the word is to beheard with all humility; her diligence andearnestness appear, in that she would notdepart and help her sister; to signify thatthe hearing of the word must be preferredbefore worldly business. Her diligenceand humility serve to condemn our negli¬gence and contempt of Christ and his word;vve do not sit at Christ’s feet, nay, we setChrist at our feet, when we are so carelessin hearing the word: We are as slow tocome to the chutch, as was the raven tocome to the arks of Noah, Gen. yiii. andas loth are we to spend any time in theservice of God, as Pharaoh was loth to letthe Israelites go to serve the Lord. If acommodity were to be seen, out of whichsome worldly profit or gain might arise,how careful would we be to procure it ?what pains would we take to get it ? Absa¬lom was not mor ; desirous of a kingdom,than are the rich aen, of our time desirousof golden gain : but if it be a matter of costand trouble unto them; if they cannothear the word preached, without somehinderance to their worldly business and^ *some extraordinary charge of their purse,10tJven like to the Gadarenes, Luke viii. theyare content to take their leave of Christand his wor^, and would rather leave thatheavenly pearl, than part from their worldlypelf, Mat. xiii. 49.Thus, in Christ we have a pattern of agood pastor, and in Mary the pattern of agood hearer; let n inisters learn by thisexample, to take all occasions to preachthe word, to be instant in season and outof season, l Tim. iv. 2. and let Christianslearn by her example, Mat. vi. First seekthe kingdom of God and bis righteousness, andthen to provide the things of this life.—While Mary was careful for the food of thesoul, Martha was cumbered to provide foodfor the body : her greatest care was to en¬tertain Christ, and to make him good cheer;to testify her thankful mind unto him, thathad done so great tilings for them : he hadraised her brother Lazarus from death tolife; therefore he was worthy to be wellentertained. If Elias deserved to die* welldealt with at the hands of his hostess, IKings xvii. whose son he restored to life ;then surely our Saviour Christ was much.more welcome hither, seeing he had raisedLazarus out of his grave, where he hadt' t15Lord will defend their cause, and take theirpart against their adversaries ; howbeit, the•.godly be sufferers of the injury. The Lo'rdcannot abide to hear his servants evil spok¬en of, but is always ready to maintain theirright, and to answer for them. He willnot suffer Laban to speak one evil-word tohis servant Jacob, Gen. xxxi. Andif Aaron and Miriam murmur agamst Mo¬ses, Num. xii. the Lord will punish it \»ithleprosy. "’What a comfortable thing it is tobe godly; and to the godly, that the Kingof kings will take their part, and will notsuffer them to sustain any wrong. He isa most pure* and trusty friend, that willnot abide his friend to be backbitten, orevil spoken of, but either he will answerin their defenc’e, or he will find seme meansto stop their mouths, and restrain the slan¬derous tongues of their enemies: as some¬times he stopped Balaam.’? passage when hewent to curse his people, and caused thedumb ass to speak, Num. xxii. and reprov¬ed the madness of the prophet, rather thanhe would have his people t*> be cursed, 2Pet. ii. 15.The reputation of Martha’s name, argu-eth the vehemer.cy and. earnestness of thisadmonition.^ The Lord, he is fain to be'16earnest and importunate with us before hecan reclaim us. So when God spake toAbraham, he calls him twice by name, Gen.xxii. Christ c iled Peter thrice by name,John xxi. to cause him to make his three¬fold confession, for satisfaction of his three¬fold denial. And when the Lord spakeunto Samuel, he called him several timesby name, 1 Sam. iii. before he answered.For such is the great mercy of God, thathe is even content to admonish us often ofour duty; and again, such is the dulnessand perverseness of our crooked natures,that we cannot be gained by our first ad¬monitions, but the Lord must call us bothoften and earnestly, before we wifi hearkenunto him.There are two things in this speech ofChrist’s to be observed: the first is, hismodest reprehension of Martha’s immoder¬ate care. The other is, his friendly de¬fence of Mary’s choice. Although Marthawas very careful to entertain Christ in the ,best manner, yet if he perceived any thingir her that is worthy of reprehension, hewill not stick to tell her of it, he will notsoothe her in her saying, nor soothe herin her own conceit, for all the trouble andcost thjt she bestowed upon him. If we17should be invited to some man’s table, andkindlv entertained thereat, it would be un-kindly taken if we should find fault withany misorder; but for as much as all Christ’sactions are only the instructions of Chris¬tians ; therefore every Christian man, butespecially preachers, to whom it more par¬ticularly appertaineth, must' le-rn by thisexample, how to behave themselves whenthey are invited to great feasts ; namely,to speak to the conscience freely when theyshall see a fault. The best requital that wecan make for our good cheer, is to givegood counsel and wholesome admonitionsto them that invite us. When Christ dinedwith the Pharisee, Luke xi. 18. and wasmisliked for not washing before dinner, hethereby took occasion to reprove their hy¬pocrisy, even their outward shew of holi¬ness, which was the most frequent shewi and sin of the Pharisees. And at anothertime he noted them, Luke xiv. for press¬ing to the chief places at banquets, declar¬ing, that modesty is to be used at the sit¬ting down to meat, whatever guests shouldbe bidden to our tables. So should preach¬ers behave themselves towards those thatdo invite therp* when they, see perhapssome fault or disorder, either in the masterI18of the feast or in some other of the guests,even to say unto them thus, or otherwise,as the cause requireth ; I will warn you of.one thing, that if you follow counsel, it.willdo you good ; that is, that you would leaveoff your usury, or \ our extortions, or yourcovetousness or oppiession; that you wouldleave off your swearing and blasphemingthe name of God : that you would forbearto profane the Lord's sabbath; that youwould leave your pride and excess in yourdiet and apparel; that you would forbearto speak ill of any behind their backs, orto bear any malice or hatred to aajy of theirneighbours; these or the like are the faultswhich are easy to be espied almost in everyplace; and these are the faults which everyminister of Jesus Christ should not leaveur,reproved wheresoever he cometh. Butas Elias told Aha.b of kis Idolatry, l Kingsxiii. although he was king. And as JohnBaptist told Herod of his adultery, altho’he did many things for him. Matt!), xiv.Mark vi. 20. * and heard him gladly / so.*should the preachers reprove the people fortheir notorious offtnces, notwithstandingsome favours and courtesies received ofthem before.If Christ took occasion to find fault with19Martha for too touch diligence in his en¬tertainment, it seems he was not very curi¬ous of his diet, but would have been con¬tent with simple meats ■, he was tto delicateordinary guest, he did not delight in sump¬tuous banquets or costly fare, he rather re-quireth a religious heart, a constant faith,a willing mind to hear the word, Luke xi.28. with an earnest-care to live thereafter.These are the things wherein the Lord de-lighteth; these are the morsels which hedesireth, and which he preferreth beforeall earthly cheer: thus is Martha repre¬hended for her curiositv.aNow let us see how' Mary is excused,and commended for her godly care. ‘ Onething is necessary,5 saith our Saviour; an3what is that one thing? Even to hear theword preached, which is the power of God■ unto salvation, to every one that believe!h,Rom. i. 16. A man may better want ailthings than want one thing needful j andyet we desire ail things, and we neglect thatone thing whichis so needful. This one thinghath Mary chosen, and therefore hath cho¬sen the better part; Martha’s part is good,because it provideth for this present life;but Mary’s part is better, because it lead-eth to eternal life. It is good to be occu-20pied about our calling to get our living ;but it is better to be occupied in hearingthe word, which is able to save our souls.,As the head and the foot are both needfulto the body, so Mary and Martha are bothneedful in a commonwealth. Man hathtwo vocations, the one earthly by his la¬bour, the other heavenly by his prayer.—There is the active life, which consistethonly in practising the affairs of this life,wherein man shews himself to be like untohimself, which is an earthly man, caringfor earthly thinsrs: and there is the con-* O 'templative life, which consisteth in themeditation of heavenly things, whereinman shews himself to be like to the angels,for they whoTabour in their temporal vo¬cations do but live like men ; but they wholabour in spiritual matters, live like angels.When they hear the word, they hear Godspeaking unto them : but when they pray,God hears them speaking to him ; so thatthere is a continual conference betwixtGod and them that are thus exercised, ei-1ther in hearing, or yet in praying. Christloves Martha for hospitality, as Isaac lovedEsai for his venison 5 and the Lord lovesMary for her care and diligence in hearinghis word, as Rebecca loved Jacob for the21hearkening to her voice, Gen. xxv, 28. asa nurse, that having her breast full of milk,doth love the child that sucks it from her,even so the Lord Jesus Christ, when hehath his breast full of heavenly milk is gladwhen he hath children to suck the same.Let us therefore, as the apostles willeth. 1Pet. ii. 1. Lay aside all maliciousness, guile, ariddissimulation, all envy and ill-speaking, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk oj the word,that they may grow thereby^ to be perfectmen in Christ Jest#. Let us breathe afterthe fountain of living water, which spring.: eth up unto eternal life, as thfe hart brayethfor the rivers of water, Psalm Ixii. 1. toquench his thirst. And for as much asmany things are so troublesome, and onething is so needful, let us ever be seekingthat needful thing, even the end of ailtilings, that is, to learn to 1 fear God.'' andto strive continually ‘/o keep his conmand-' ments' Fed. xii. 12. which we must learnby hearing of the word of God, wherebyfaith, (without the which, it is impossiblej to please God, Heb. xi. 9.) may be begot¬ten, and nourished in the hearts of men,• Rom. x. 17 This is that good part which? Mary hath chosen, which is much betterthan her sister'.- choice, because it concern-<22eth a better life, and haib the fruition ofthis present life also. Mary hath a doubleportion, she both heard the word, and alsoate of the meat which her sister dressed,For godliness hath the promise of this life andof that which is to come, 1 Tim. iv. 8. As forall other things, whether they be honours,promotions, pleasures, or whatever else,they serve only for the maintenance of thispresent life, which is but short* and alsovery subject to mutability: But the wordof God is the food of the soul, the breathof life that immortal seed which bringethforth fruit unto eternal life, 1 Peter i., 23.Let the word of God be precious unto us,because it is so permanent, for heaven andearth shall pass away, Luke xxi. 33. Butthe word of God endureth for ever. If wemake choice of any other tiling besides, itmust be taken from us, or we must betaken from it : But if we make choice ofthis one thin.?, it shaii never be taken fromus, neither in this life, nor the life to come.The Lord gra t that we be not only bear¬ers, but doers ft,- word, Janies i. 22. thatit may be truly saw of us, as Christ saidof his disciples that heard his preachingsMatt. xii. 30. Beheld my bfother, sister, arid-mother ; or as he made answer to the wp-23man that so commended his carnal kindred,Luke xi. 28. Blessed are they that hear the•word of God, and do the same,’ Amen.HYMN.j JESUS, lover of my soul.Let me to thy bosom fly,'While the raging billows roll,'While the tempest still is high!IHide me, O my Saviour, hide,Till the storm of life is past;Safe into the haven guide jO receive my soul at last.Other refuge have I none,Hangs my helpless soul on thee ?Leave, ah ! leave me not alone,Still support and comfort me:All my trust on thee is stay’d, 'AH my help from thee l bring;dover my defenceless headWith the shadow of thy wing./, ' ...24Thou, O Christ! art all I want;All in all, in Thee 1 find;Raise the fallen, cheer the faint,Heal the sick, and lead the blind:Just and holy is thy name,I am all righteousness.Vile and full of sin I am,Thou art full of truth and grace.Plenteous grace with thee is found,Grace to pardon all my sin;Let the healing streams abound:Make and keep me pure within ; 'Thou of life the fountain art.Freely let me take of thee :g Spring thou up within my heart,if There to ail eternity. .