JOAKS upon JOAKS;O R,No Joak like a true Joak.BEING THEDiverting HUMOURS of Mr- John Ogle,a Life-Guard-Man.THEMerry PRANKS of Lord Mohun. and tjisEarls of Warwick and Pembroke.WITHRochester’s Dream, hisMaiden’sDifappoint-ment, and his Mountebank’s Speech.TOGETHER WITH 'The diverting FANCIES and FROLICRS ofCharles If. and his three Concubines.a*, katstSTIRLING:PRINTED BY C. RANDALL;1801.( 2 )T II EDiverting: HumoursO FJ O H N O G L E.MR Joha Ogle, being the youngeft Ton efa genleman: in the town of Northamp¬ton. his fortune being very finall, loon confirm¬ed it; but his fvfUr being a mi ft refs to theDuke of York, {he got him a good place in theFirft Regiment of Horfe Guards, under thecommand of the Duke of Monmouth : yet t: iswould not fuppor t him in his extravagancies.And.when he wanted money he w'ould initnedi-vitclv vifit )u> idler ; but one time coining imo<he chamber, when the Duke was afleep withher, die hearing him immediately drew up thecurtain, and lifted her hand, that he might notdifturb the Duke, and told him he ilioulu ha\ehis demand. He fee me u to oe fitisfied there¬with. Rut when the curtain was drawn, Ogletakes away the Duke’s deaths, and his Smrand Garter, laced breeches, gold watch, andvnoney.( 3 )oney, and went clearly off, without any oneeinq of him.When the Duke awoke in the moanin'?, andanted to get up, he mifsed his cloatbs, andas in a great paffion. and examining amongs feryants, who had been in hi. chamber,ey immediately anfwered, none but Mr Ogle,1 i Madam, faid he, then you know the thief.I The Duke meeting Ogle aho it a week after,refsed in the deaths he had taken away, ftep-id up to him haflily ; when Ogle began toabutton. faying, tfere. take your cloaths, Itve got better of my own. The Duke feeingm begin to drip, and fearing the nobles wouldacquainted in what manner he had loft them,d, Piih ! fy, Mr Ogle, you are welcome toem. So they parted friends, and Mr. Oglelent off very well fatisfied.There being a general mufter of lifeguardsHide Park, and Ogle havin'1 : ft his cloakplay, he was therefore obliged to borrows landlady’s fear let peftieda ; fo tying .t upa bundle, he put it behind him.. He T -rtguefsed and awaycomrade.- perceivingounted fafe enough as htOrode; but one of hise border, gave the Duke the hint Theuke, fmiling to himli If. faid Gentlemen clokel; which they all did but Ogle, who, ftam-ering and (taring, faid, What r pox muft weoak tor ? it does not rain. ■ u he not cloak-g, the Duke faid, Mr Ogle wh dont you>ey the word of command ? C’oak Sir, Why,ere then, and peeping his head out 0t 'he topthe petticoat, faid,Though I cannot cloak,I can( 4 ) ‘ ,I can petticoat with the befl of you, which cauf-ed a great laughter, both in the regiment andamong the bye-ftanders.Another time Oele wanting a pair of boots,which were, brought to him. They fitting himUe walks up and down the fiiop to fettle themto his feet, but efpying an opportunity, he ranout of the fiiop, and the fiioem iker followedhim, crying. Stop thief, flop thief. No gentle¬men, it is for a wayer, I am to run in hoots,and he fhoes and (lockings Then, faid themob. Well done boots, (hoes, and (lockings csrtnever overtake thee So Ogle got clear o!lMr. Ogle living too extravagantly, kept ndhorfe. but when he mounted on guard, hejwould go hire a coach with a good pair of horf-res, then putting his fiddle and other accou’re-ments in, ordered the coachman to drive himto Hyde Park Then he would compel the'man to lend him one of his horfes, and. if herefilled would threaten to (hoot it Havingfollowed th:s trade -or (ome time, am! the Dukeof Monmouth ohferving he hnd never mount¬ed guard twice with the fame houe,. (aid to hi nilMr Ogle. I think vou have more change clhories than 1 have. Quoth Ogle, May it pleafdyour Grace, 1 do not know whether I have aigreater variety, hut 1 neve r mount guird bullJ can fellow mv horfe Now the muiltr beingover, and the guards riding our of the P.uk,Ogle rides up to the Duke, and (hewing hinta. hackney coach that was waiting with but pnthorfe. See there, did not i tell your Greet1 could pair my horfe. I will never want :horfiC 5 )if orfe for his Majefty’s iervice io long as therene hackney coach in to'.vn. This made hisTrace fmite, and Ogle returned the horfe a-;ain to the coachman.Another time Ogle being at LockiTs ordin-ry, where he played at hazard, with many>1 the nobility, and had very good fuccefs.tile therefore ordered a porter to go up and■iflo'* n the fireets, and bring to him there as£|iany poor people as he could get, and in ahort time he brought upwards ot one hundred,ipeggars. Upon this Mr. Ogle ordered themach orie a fhiilines worth of meat and drink,y the time they had made an end of theirttov .’ance (they pra)ing the Lord might fendDgle good luck he had broke all the per ions)f quaiityjand uifeharged the mumpers reckon-ngs giving them each lixpence belide. As heas going into Spring Gardens he met the.duke of Monmouth, who afked Ogle wherere had been ? Been, laid he, why l have been,ulfiiling the feripture. Fulfilling the ferip-ure ! faid the Duke, 1 believe you know noih-ng oi the mutter. But I believe! do, though,aid Ogle, for 1 have fed the hungry, and therich I have fent empty away ; for by all thatis good, our. oi twenty Earls and Lords at Lock-t’s there is not one has got a farthing to pay hiureckoning.the epitaph written upon Mr. Ogle’s tomb-jfhone, in the church-yard of Henley uponihames. in Oxfordlhire, where he was iiuer-reci in the third year- of the rcien of KingWilliam 111. ~ 6( 6 )r Here the too generous Ogle lie?.Who as he lived, fo he dyM.Paid nothing off !he fcore ;But yet for his generofity.Paying debts when no money he did feeyAll people did Ogle adore.The Frolicks of Lord Mohun and the Earl ofWarwick.ONE time the Earl of Warwick being'outlate one night, and in company with anofficer who had an artificial leg, they went intoDark-houfe near Billingfgate. but by the way,War wick fcraped a deal of dud out of a rottenpoft, and as he was putting it up before feveralpeople, oneafkdd what that powder was good ;for ; Warwdck faid. It was good for all man*ner of bruifes, fortes, and fcalds. And to fiiewfbim the excellency of it, he defired them to;bring him a kettle of fcalding hot water. Thenrubbing the powder of rotten poll on Jtis4friend’s artificial leg, he put it into the water.1Now the people feeing he. wras not hurt, foonbought up all the powder, fo that his Lordfniplvery fhortly raifed between three or four,;pounds. Soon after this a very ingenious dray¬man, who had purchafed fome of the powder,1being in company with fome of his calling, andhaving laid a wager that he could put his kginto a, kettle of fcalding water without hurtinghimfelr..( 7 )himfelf. Ti;e wager being bid, he, like acunning dog, got into a private room, to rubthe powder of rotten poli upon his leg, whichdone, he returns into the kitchen, and plung¬ed his kg into the kettle of balding hot water,w hich nude hinvroai out like a town bulk andv, hat was word, he had like to have loll hisIes-Another tune the F.arl of Warwick was in.company with feveral perfons of quality, andone oi them gave hint a challenge, to meet hintbehind Montague-houfe. His Lorcfliip beingmuch in liquor forgot it next morning, whenhis adverlary came to fetch him out. But hisLore flop delired him to day whiid he faid hisprayers, to which he agreed, his Lordfhipwent to his clofet, and prayed after this man¬ner : “ My fins? O Lord i are without number,and above all forgive me tor killing Lord L>—e,Earl T—d. Colonel W—s5 Major j—d, andCaptain D—n, betides many more beyondiea.” His antagonid lidening at the door,cried out, Ah ! p^gue, i {hall have him killme too- 1 hen ineaking away, It is Lcrdfnip-laughed very heartily.I he Lord Mohun and the Earl of Warwickbeing on the ramble, took notice of an old wo-n-an, who early and late was boiling of hercodims near Charing Crolb They -bought:fome of her and pro mi leu they'would fend hera bufhei of charcoal tor nothing. 1 thank yourhonours, replied the woman,—do next ciay a.porter brought her a bufhei of cimvcoai whichmuch pieafed the old woman.—But their Lord-   ft’?*( 8 )ihips had filled the hollow part of the endswith gunpowder, and fealed the ends with blackwax, and flood at a diftance to fee the event.Jn a fhort time, bounce went the charcoal, like,fo many crackers, down went the kettle in theflreet, away flew the codlins about the old wo¬man’s ears ; but Ihe getting no harm, their•Lordflnps were very well plealed.Lord PEMBROKE’S Frolicks.HIS Lordfliip one day walking by himfelf,and meeting in a field a poor beggarwoman, with a little child at her back, hisLordfliip had a great mind to occupy her, butfhe fearing left the child fliould be hurt, it wasagreed the child ihould be tied to his Lordfhip’sback. It was tied fo faft that his Lordfliipcould not undo it. So the v'oman making anexcufe to make water, left him the child to.his Lady.Another time his Lordflnp being at a certainInn, and fixing on a room as he was in the kit¬chen ordering his fupper, a Quaker get intohis room, and none could perfwade him focome out of it. My Lord being informed ofit, ran up fwearing with his fword drawn, com¬manding him to quit the room immediately.But th<' Quake was as obftinate as the other.So they had a tight trial of fkiil ior it. ‘iheQuaker put by the pafs with his cane, and then- . threw( 9 )threw his Lordfhip quite down the ftairs, whichmadt the hoft fend the drawer to fee what wasthe matter.— He brought word back again.Nothing, but Yea and Nay has kicked G—dd—n down hairs. So the Quaker kept hisground, and his Lordfhip took another room.. ' . ; . . ' . >Lord Rochefier’s Whim againil Women.A woman’s love is like a Syrian flower.That buds apd fprtacls, and withers in anhour.lOn a Man’s Choice whether he would beHanged or,Married.>.Xo ! here’s the bride, and there’s the tree,iiTake which of them beft liketh thee.jThe bargain’s bad on either part, vIThe woman’s woril drive on the cart.iWere womtn little as they’re goodjA peafcod w’ouid make them gown and hood.I On Woman’s Denial.Women though ne’er fo godly mdke it.Their faftiion to fay no and take it.On Marriage.‘Wedding and hanging deftinies diipatch,i'ho’ hanging feetns the better match.( 10 )The Maiden’s Difappointment.One night as I lay {lumbering on my bed,Having nought with rue but my maiden head,I dream’d a young man fell in love with me,A pretty lad he was, and he pleafed me.He woo’d, he fu’d, at laft he iped.Married methought we were, and both in bed.He rous’d, turn’d, and got up, with that Ifqueak’d,Blufh’d and crv,d Oh ! and fo awak’d.J 1It would have vex’d a laint when fieih did burn.To be fo near, yet mifs’d fo good a turn :O cruel dream ? why did you thus deceive me ?To Ihew me heaven, and then in hell to leavemeThe Earl being in company with KingCharles II the Dukes of York, Monmouth,Xauderdale, and Dr Frafer his Majefly order¬ed Rocheller to make feme veries : So hisLorafhip thus addreffed himfelf:Here’s Monmouth the witty.There’s Lauderdale the pretty.And Frafer the learned Phylician ;And abo\e all the reft :There’s a Duke for a jeft.And your Majefty’s a known politician.All which his Lordfhip fpoke by contraritiesvfor Monmouth was never reckoned any thing’of a wit. Lauderdale was very homely, Fra¬fer( H )fer a man of no learning. The King’s Politickslay in women, and York never loved a Jeft.So they went angry away.Another time his Lordfhip going to kifs theDutchefs of Cleveland as fhe was going out ofher coach into St. James's Park, his foot flip¬ped, and he fell upon his breech ; but quicklylifing, he thus exprefled himfelf to her Grace:By all that’s facred it was bravely done.Thus to attempt the chariot of the fun.And then iall down like Phaeton.His Lordfliip being one day at court, in com¬pany with the French ambaffador, Monfieurbegan to applaud his mailer’s grandeur andconqueil, in the following w'ords :Lorain a day, a week Burgunday won,2 Flanders a month —what would a yearhave done ?To which Rochefter thus replies :Lorain he Hole, by fraud he got Burgunday,Flanders he bought, by God he’ll pay for’tone day.At this anfwer of the Earl’s, Tvlonfieur washighly affronted, arid told the King that Ro-cheiler had moil bafely bemeaned his RoyalMailer, and required fatisfa&ion. To whichthe King faid, He knew not wdrat to do with( 12 )him, for if he fpake to him about it, he wouldbe fure to return him fome fuch anfwer ; andupon that account he advifed him’to let him a-lone for the prefent.The Earl being out of favour at the court,took private lodgings on l ower Hill, wherebeing in ^ifguife, he fet up a mountebank’sfhge upon the hill, and fpoke to the mob iathe following manner :Gentlemen and Ladies,“ HERE is my famous Unguentum Aure-um, or Golden Ointment, fo very famous forcuring all kinds of diftempers in men, women,and children Look here, good people, thisis rny noble I'indtura Hyperboriacorum, pre¬pared only by myfelf. this will make theblind to fee, the deaf to hear, and the dumbto fpeak ; nay, there is nothing can redorelife io foon as tin's ; for with three drops of thistindture I reftored a gentleman to life who hadloft his head Even years ; bur he being a ftafecriminal, the Emperor made me fly to Ger¬many for my great exploit: Therefore, l amcome to feek my fortune, with my incompara¬ble and famous Tincture, which cures all man¬ner of fleknefs, htctick fever, jaundice, lool'e-nefs, megrims, and all other diftempers inci¬dent to mankind.The next thing I prefent, is my Aqua TerraChimegagon, which makes barren women fruit¬ful, nay, being in Mogul’s country, I gaveonly two fpoonfuls to his grandmother, whowas an hundred years old, and flie conceivedwith two twins, and was delivered with fuchcafe.( )eafe, that if fhe was to live to the age of Me-thufelem, (he would never he without a bottleof my excellent water ; for it is an anddote a-gainlf all diftempers; and for tlie benefit of thepoor, it is but One Shilling a Bottle. And asmy flay here is very fhort, thofe who love theirhealths, let them flock themfelves while theymay, for my departure will be very fudden.The Frolicks of King Charles II. and his threeConcubines.1/^ INC Charles If. with feme of his NoblesOv being a haym'akiog, Nell Gwynn floodlooking on. Quoth the King, So Nell,, whydo you not make Hay ? To which fhe replies.If your Majefty and Nobles will cock as muchas you can, i will fpread for jou all.It being Mifs Davis’s turn to lie with theKing. Nell Gwynn invited her to a eolation off.veet meats, in which Ike mixed fome powder.After the treat was over. Mils Davis went tothe King’s apartment ; but when his Majeftyand file were in bed, the powder began to op¬erate fo very violently that as he was cock¬ing, and ready to ftorm the fort of love, thefally was lo great, that h's Majeffy w as forcedto retire and leave Ids-fill, fen l.'ed-fellow, withwhom he was never friends after.Kina-.r, ( 14 )King Charles If. being at fupper with theDutchef's of Portfmouth and Nell Gwynn, acouple of chickens were on the table. SaidPortfrnouth. I can make three out of thefe two.That cannot be, faid Nell. Portfmouth replied,Is not this one?—Yes, replied Nell.—Then,faid Portfmouth. One and two makes three,—That’s very true replied Nell Then Nell putone. on the King’s plate, and the other on herown, and bid the Dutchefs take the third forher pains. This joke fo pleafe/i the King thathe laughed very heartily.Another time Nell riding out with theDutchefs of Portfmouth. a fcufHe happened be¬tween them Nell having Squihtable on theground . h«r Grace being fo called from a caftwhich file had with her eye and taking up ' 11her cloa’-hs. fhe burned- with a candle thofcparts which modefty forbids me to name l hisgreat indignity made the Dutchefs complain tocomplain to the King, fhr being-very angry atNell’s rudenefs, who was juft entering the pre-fence chamber as ftie had ended her ftory.The King fell into a great pailion, which herwit foon appealed, by telling him that as therewas a late art of parliament that all Frenchcommodities fhould be burnt, as being prohi¬bited, Ihe lipped he could not be angry thatflie had put it in force.ROMAN-ViJ'i( J5 ) " .R O M A N T I C K STORIES.Jh Yorkfliire gentleman and his man, camefce Briftol and being invited to din-aer they walked with the gentleman and hisL vifV into the garden, Sir fays lie, have you astarge cabbages as thefe in Yorklhire ? As thcie liiye. Sir, fays he, if you were to fee them theywould make you flare. I have cabbages thatilvould fhelter a whole team of horfes under|hem a winter. What doll thou fay Ralph ?Why truly. Sir. faid he, 1 feldom come intohe garden but I make wind-mill polls with thealks of them.— Which made them wonder.» hen they went into the dairy, and fheweditu the cheefes, faying, they were reckonedhe larged cheefes throughout England. Aye,Madam, except Yorkfl;;re, I befeech you ;rhy, mine are fo big, that my dairy maid isorced to call the rnen with leavers to turn them,s this not true Ralph ? Why indeed. Sir, teldom go into the dairy but this I can fay,hat the whey of one of thefe cheefes will drivel mill for near three hours together. At which,lie gentleman and his wife both wondered,nightily.Then they fhewed him a proip ft of thdloufe, and aiked him whether he did not thinkt very high ? .Not at all to comp: re wbh ourVVI ad am, I ail yre you ; for lays he, I hare a'toufe in V orklJTire that is fo very high that if1 man goe into the upp rmolt room, and doesmt take a hxpenny loaf whii him, he will oein.( x6 )in danger of ftarving before he conies down a-gain. Is it not true what I fay Ralph } Sayshe, indeed, when I went up l toolr a twelve-penny loaf with me, and eat it all before I camedown again ; and when 1 was in the uppermoftroom, I could hear the people talk in the otherworld, but I could not underran 1 whit, they jfaid This ftory made the gentleman and ids !wife ftand in the greatef. amazement. So the idinner being ready, they let down to it.A gentleman who was relating of his adven¬tures, faid. He was once upon 'he higheft •mountain he believed in all the world It was ifo big, faid he, that falling afleep, the moongoing her journey, came fo clofe by me, thatflie took my Tat off my head. I pray faid an-^other, what did you do for your hat ? Do !faid he, I was fain to do with patiecce till nextnight, when (lie muff civilly put it on again and *told me, foe only took it off to make a littlewater in it.A foldier fwore defperately, That being in:,the wars between the Ruffians and Pol landers,here happened to be a quarrel between twoGenerals,'where a river parted them. At that |time it froze fo excefiively, that all their words iwere no looner out of their mouths but tbey.were immediately frozen, and could not be-heard unt/l eleven days after, when the thawcame and diffolved them, and fo made them au¬dible to ail.FINIS.