[No. 1‘2.GUY FAWKES,OHTHE HISTORYEDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. RRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.«F SCOTLAND r.gSTXW'A'I YTJO/aOT8IH jTTTam aotoji tfaawoqftm: ■ ■ {[•/.:(]fti Fit: zs't: f.t» ri •>GUY FAWKES,OHTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT.| The conspiracy called the Gunpowder Plotmust, for various reasons, be considered as oneof the most remarkable occurrences in Englishhistory. The atrocity of the design, the ex-i tent of the mischief intended, and the myste¬rious manner in which the scheme is representedI to have been detected upon the eve of its exe-1 cution, would alone be sufficient to give asurpassing interest to the story; while theI observance of the anniversary periodically| awakens the remembrance of Guy Fawkes and| his associates, and perpetuates the memory of| the transaction by rendering its leading fea-(tures familiar even to our children.In order to form a fair judgment of the? causes which produced the Gunpowder Trea¬son, and to comprehend the motives of thosewho were engaged in it, it is necessary to con¬sider generally the state of the English Catho¬lics at that period, and to taTte a summaryview of the penal restrictions and liabilitiesi to which, at the commencement of the reign ofJames I., the adherents to the Roman Church| were subject.The laws passed against recusants in the1 latter years of the reign of Elizabeth were ex¬tremely severe; and whatever may have beenthe object with which they were passed, andwithout discussing the debatable question of4GUY FAWKES, ORtheir necessity for the preservation of the Pro¬testant establishment from the practices of dis¬affected and turbulent fanatics, at that timeexcited and encouraged by the mischievous in¬terference of the Pope, it may be observed thattheir effect undoubtedly was to withdraw fromthe Catholics the common rights and libertiesof Englishmen, and to place all persons, how¬ever loyal to the existing Government, who ad¬hered, from conscience and principle, to theancient religion, in a state of unmerited perse¬cution and suffering. By these laws, Catholicswere not only forbidden to use the rites andceremonies of their own faith, but were re¬quired to attend upon the services of a Church,which, if conscientious and consistent, theywere bound to abhor as heretical and damna¬ble. If they refused or forbore to come to aProtestant church on the Sabbath, they wereliable to a penalty of £20 for every lunarmonth during which they absented themselves.The public exercise of the social rites of theirown Church was virtually interdicted; for itwas enacted, ‘ that every priest saying masswas punishable by a forfeiture of two hundredmarks, and every person hearing it by a for¬feiture of one hundred marks, and both wereto be imprisoned a year, and the priest untilhis fine was paid.’ The ministers of their re¬ligion, without whose presence they were pre¬cluded from the exercise of the Sacraments andother rites, were in effect proscribed andbanished; for, by a statute passed in 1585,(27 Eliz. c. 2,) it was enacted, ‘ that all Jesuits,seminary and other priests, ordained since thebeginning of the Queen’s reign, should departout of the realm within forty days after theTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT.end of that session of Parliament; and thatall such priests, or other religious persons, or¬dained since the same time, should not comeinto England, or remain there, under the painof suffering death as in case of treason.’ Ittvas also enacted by the same statute, ‘ that allpersons receiving or assisting such priestsshould be guilty of a capital felony.’ When aperson professing the Popish religion was con-ivicted in a court of law of absenting himselffrom the Established Church, he was termed a‘Jr Popish recusant convict \ such a person wasiljliable, by the 85 Eliz. c. 1, to be committed to[{prison without bail until he conformed and(jlmade submission; and if he did not, within|i three months after conviction, submit and re-||pair to the Established Church, he must abjurelithe realm; and if he refused to swear, or didI not depart upon his abjuration, or if he return-led without licence, he was guilty of felony, andi(|i might suffer death as a felon, without benefitil) of clergy. No doubt, these rigorous laws were*i not at all times enforced to their utmost ex-A tent; but they placed the whole body of the1 Catholics at the mercy of the Protestant\l Government, who were enabled to crush orI spare them at their discretion or caprice ; fori them, therefore, there was no liberty, personal| or religious, but such as the Privy Council] thought proper to allow : and with reference1 to their religion, the law gave them no rights,J and afforded them no protection. When wei remember that the victims of the laws abovei enumerated considered themselves to be themajority of the gross population of the country ;that the chief sufferers were the principal no¬bility and gentry of the land, whose ancestorsIk6 GUY FAWKES, ORhad served the Kings of England, before theReformation, in the highest offices of state, amwhose honours and possessions were the proofsof royal favour and distinction conferred ontheir predecessors; when we consider, moreover,that these persons were thus impoverished amdisgraced for their adherence to that ancientreligion to whose! rites and ceremonies theywere attached by early and hereditary associa¬tions, and whose power and influence theywere bound by the strongest obligations tomaintain and defend against what was to theman abominable heresy, we shall be at no lossto comprehend the bitter feelings of discontent,which prevailed amongst the English Catholics,under Elizabeth, and which produced a con¬stant succession of plots and rebellions, momor less important and alarming, during the-last twenty years of her reign.Although it must be admitted that the lawso ...in existence against the Catholics at this periodwere not constantly enforced against them, itmust not, on the other hand, be supposed thatthey were merely suspended, in terrorem, overthe heads of those against whom they were di¬rected, for the purpose of restraining the se¬ditious attempts of the disaffected. There is nodoubt that they were often practically appliedto a very severe extent; and there were fewCatholic families who had not in some degreeexperienced their rigour. Of this, many in¬stances might be adduced.As Elizabeth’s life declined, it was naturalthat a party so oppressed should direct theirattention with much anxiety to her probablesuccessor. Having abandoned all expectationof an avowed Catholic heir to the crown, theytTHE GUNPOWDER PLOT. 7| were led by many circumstances to look forward>» with hope to the succession of James. They■J remembered that he was born of Catholic pa-1 rents, and that he had been baptized by aj Catholic archbishop ; they relied upon the feel-ij ings of dislike with which they supposed that1 he must regard the party who had caused thehi execution of his mother ; they knew that seve-'! ral of the ordinances of the Roman Churchij were approved by him ; and they had heard andij believed that he had, on more than one occa-;i sion, expressed a willingness to be reconciledj| to the Apostolic See. But, besides these gene-!| ral presumptions of a disposition favourable tof their party, the leading Catholics were attached:l to the cause of James, by the express assur-sn ances of a toleration for their religion, which? were generally reported to them from various|P quarters, and, in particular, by individuals de¬ft spatched to Edinburgh for the purpose of as-ii ccrtaining his intentions upon that subject.But the fond hopes and expectations of the1 Catholics were dissipated and destroyed beforeI six months of James'" Government had passedaway. Symptoms of an anti-Catholic disposi¬tion appeared as soon as he felt himself firmlyseated on the throne. De Beaumont says,that ‘ within a month after his arrival inLondon, he answered an objection made inconversation to the appointment of Lord HenryHoward to a seat in the Privy Council, on ac¬count of his being a Catholic.'’ The sameI authority farther reports, that ‘ he maintain¬ed openly at table that the Pope was thetrue Antichrist, with other like blasphemiesworthy of his doctrine.’ A proclamation, datedFebruary 22, 1603-4, in which the King com-OFY FAWKES, Olt, 8mantled all Jesuits, Seminarists, and otherpriests, to depart the realm before the 19th ofMarch following, and not to return, under the It.penalty of being left to the rigour of the laws. \tThese repeated threats were practically en- Ifforced by proceedings in Parliament, and gene- trally throughout the country, which distinctlyindicated to the dismayed Catholics a returnto the persecutions and indignities of the reignof Elizabeth.Though all were alike disappointed and dis¬contented, it is clear that the general body ofthe English Catholics did not at this time con¬template forcible measures for the removal oftheir grievances. Many, however, and, in par¬ticular, those who were attached to the Jesuits1party, now wholly despairing of obtaining fromthe justice of the King, or by peaceable means,any alleviation of their degradation andmisery, and despising and rejecting the coun¬sel of the more moderate, readily lent an ear toany scheme of vengeance however desperateand sanguinary.The design of blowing up the House of Lords jlwith gunpowder at the opening of Parliament, ]|and thus destroying, at a single blow, the King,the Lords, and the Commons, was formed aboutthe summer of 160T. The conceiver of thisdesperate and bloody vengeance was RobertCatesby, a Catholic, the son of Sir WilliamCatesby, who had been several times imprisonedfor recusancy. It is uncertain whether, inorder of time, Catesby first disclosed his schemeto John Wright or to Thomas Winter, theformer descended from a respectable family inYorkshire, the Wrights of Plowland, in Holder-ness; the latter, from the ^Viliters in Hud-THE GUNPOWDE3 PLOT. f); dington, in Worcestershire, where they hadbeen in possession of estates since the time ofI Henry VI. At a conversation held betweenI these conspirators, it was agreed that Wintershould go over to the Netherlands to meet Ve-ilasco, constable of Castile, who had arrived atFlanders on his way to England to conclude ai peace between James and the King of Spain,and him to solicit his Majesty to recal the penali'laws against the Catholics, and to admit themiiinto the rank of his other subjects. Winterreceived no encouragement from Velasco thatihe would stipulate in the treaty of peace forthe liberties of the English Catholics; and so[| returned to England, taking Fawkes alongv with him, but without, at that time, communi-II eating to him the nature of Catesby’s purpose.Guido, or Guy Fawkes, whose name hasbeen more generally associated with this plotthan that of any of the other conspirators, inI consequence of the prominent part he under¬took in the execution of it, was a gentleman of3 good family and respectable parentage in York-| shire. His father, Edward Fawkes, was at notary at York, and held the office of Registrarand Advocate of the Consistory Court of theCathedral. Of the education and early historyof Guy Fawkes nothing is known ; but havingspent the little property he derived from hisfather, he enlisted as a soldier of fortune in theSpanish army in Flanders, and was present atthe taking of Calais by the Archduke Albertin 1598. He was well known to the Englishj Catholics, and had been despatched by SirWilliam Stanley and Owen from Flanders tojoin Christopher Wright on his embassy toPhilip II., immediately after Queen Elizabeth’s10GUY FAWKES, ORdeath. Father Greenway, who knew all theconspirators intimately, describes him as ‘ aman of great piety, of exemplary temperance,of mild and cheerful demeanour, an enemy ofbroils and disputes, a faithful friend, and re¬markable for his punctual attendance upon re¬ligious observances.’ His society is stated, bythe same authority, to have been ‘ sought by allthe most distinguished in the Archduke’s campfor nobility and virtue.’ If this account of hischaracter be correct, we are to look upon thisman, not, according to the popular notion, as amercenary ruffian ready for hire to performthe chief part in any tragedy of blood, but asan enthusiast whose understanding had beendistorted by superstition, and in whom fana¬ticism had conquered the better feelings ofnature. His conduct, after the discovery of theplot, is quite consistent with the character ofa fanatic.Soon after Winter’s return to London, Tho¬mas Percy,the relation and confidential stewardof the Earl of Northumberland, joined the fourconspirators already mentioned. They met byappointment at a house in the fields beyond StClement’s Inn, and Catesby, Percy, ThomasWinter, John Wright, and Fawkes, then seve¬rally took an oath in the following form :—‘ You swear by the blessed Trinity, and by theSacrament you now propose to receive, neverto disclose, directly or indirectly, by word orcircumstance, the matter that shall be proposedto you to keep secret, nor desist from the exe¬cution thereof until the rest shall giveyou leave.’This oath was given by them to each other inthe most solemn manner, ‘ kneeling down upontheir knees, with their hands laid on a primer.’THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.THE GUNPOWDER PLOT. 1]irhey then heard mass, and received1 the Sacra¬ment from Father Gerard, a Jesuit mission-.ry, in confirmation of their vow. ThomasWinter and Fawkes both state the secret was;iot communicated to Gerard. Percy took the:iiext step. He was a gentleman pensioner,md, upon pretence that it would be convenient0 him when in attendance in that capacity, hemrchased of one Ferris the remainder of ahort term which he had in the lease of a house[ djoining the Parliament House. It was,ccordingly, taken in Percy’s name, under ai ,'rittcn agreement with Ferris, the original ofvhich, dated May 24, 1604, may be seen at1 he State-Paper Office. From the cellar ofibis house a mine was to be made through thewall of the Parliament House, and a quantityIf gunpowder and combustibles to be deposit-d immediately under the House of Lords.Fawkes, who was unknown in London, anduad assumed the name of Johnson, acted asjrercy’s servant, and took possession of thehouse. Parliament was soon afterwards ad-lourned till the 7th February; and the con¬spirators, having first hired a house in Lam-ifieth for the preparation of timber for thenine, and a place of deposit for combustibles,greed to meet in London about the begin-ing of November. The custody of the houseLambeth was committed to Robert Keyes,he son of a Protestant clergyman in Derby-hire, but himself a Catholic: the oath of se-trecy was administered to him also.The proceedings of the Star-Chamber, duringhe interval of their meetings, so exasperatedhe conspirators, that they became more eagerhan ever about the plot. Catesby and his con-12GUT rAWlCF.3, OKJ'ederatos, according to a previous agreement, as¬sembled in the house about the 11th of Decem¬ber, and a mine was immediately commenced.The stone wall, however, which separated themfrom the Parliament House, being found threeyards in thickness, Keyes and the youngerbrother of John Wright (who was enlisted as theothers had been) were called in to assist, andthe seven men were thus occupied until Christ-mas-eve without their ever appearing in theupper part of the house. ‘ All which seven,’says Fawkes in his examination, ‘ were gentle¬men of name and blood ; and not any was em¬ployed in or about this action, no, not so muchas in digging and mining, that was not a gen¬tleman. And while the others wrought, I stoodas sentinel to descry any man that came near; Eand when any person came near the place, up- |on warning given by me, they ceased until theyhad again notice from me to proceed ; and weseven lay in the house, and had shot and pow¬der, and we all resolved to die in that place be¬fore we yielded or were taken.’During their laborious employment, they hadmuch consultation respecting the scheme to beadopted. It was supposed that Prince Henrywould accompany the King to the ParliamentHouse, and perish there with his father. TheDuke of York, afterwards Charles I., would thenbe the next heir, and Percy undertook to securehis person, and carry him off in safety as soon asthe fatal blow was struck. If this scheme shouldfail, the Princess Elizabeth, who was under thecare of Lord Harrington at his house near Co¬ventry, might be easily surprised and secured bya party provided in the country. It was the in-THE GUNPOWDER TI.OT.ISking. It was also arranged that Warwickshireshould be the general rendezvous, and that sup¬plies of horses and armour should be sent to thehouses of several of the conspirators in thatcounty, to be used as occasion might require ;all which was accordingly attended to.In the midst of these deliberations, Fawkesbrought intelligence that the Parliament hadagain been prorogued from the 7th of Februaryto the 8d of October following. The conspira¬tors, therefore, separated for a time ; and, inthe mean while, John Grant of Norbrook, inWarwickshire, and Robert Winter of Had¬dington, were sworn in among their number. InFebruary (1G04-5,) their labours were resumed,and the stone wall nearly half broken through.Father Greenway observes, that ‘ it seemedalmost incredible that men of their quality, ac¬customed to live in ease and delicacy, couldhave undergone such severe labour; and espe¬cially that, in a few weeks, they could haveeffected much more than as many workmenwould have done who had been all their livesin the habit of gaining their daily bread by theirlabour.’ In particular, he remarks that ‘itwas wonderful how Percy and Catesby, whowere unusually tall men, could endure for solong a time the intense fatigue of working dayand night in the stooping posture which wasrendered necessary by the straightness of theplace.’One morning, while working upon the wall,they suddenly heard a rushing noise in a cellarnearly above their heads. At first, they fearedthey had been discovered; but Fawkes, beingdespatched to reconnoitre, found that onePright, to whom the cellar belonged, was sell-14GUY FAWKES, ORing off' his coals in order to remove. Fawkescarefully surveyed this large vault situatedimmediately below the House of Lords, andperceived its fitness for their purpose. Thedifficulties connected with breaking throughthe wall, its thickness, the damp of the situa¬tion, for water was continually oozing throughthe stone work, and tho danger of discoveryfrom noise, disposed the confederates to aban¬don their operations, and to possess them¬selves of the cellar of Bright. The vault wasimmediately hired, and thirty-six barrels ofpowder were carried by night from Lambeth;iron bars and other tools that had been usedin mining were also thrown among the powderthat the breach might be the greater, and thewhole was covered over with faggots. Lumberof various kinds was placed in the cellar, to pre¬vent any suspicion of the curious or the watch¬ful.In May 1605, the preparations were com¬plete : the conspirators, having marked thedoor, in order that it might be seen if anyone entered the vault, consented to separate.Before their separation, however, it was pro¬posed that an attempt should be made to ob¬tain foreign co-operation, by informing SirWilliam Stanley and Owen of the project. Thiswas agreed to on condition of their being swornto secrecy, and Fawkes was despatched toFlanders for the purpose of conferring withthem. Sir Edmund Baynham was also sent ona mission to the Pope, that, when the news ofthe explosion arrived at Home, he might boprepared to negotiate on behalf of the conspi¬rators, and to explain that the design of thoplot was the re-establishment of Catholicism.THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.15! Soon after Fawkes1 return from Flanders, theParliament was further prorogued from Octo¬ber to the 5th of November. These repeatedprorogations alarmed the conspirators, andled them to fear that their project was sus¬pected. Their alarms, however, having beendiscovered to be groundless, Catesby purchasedhorses, arms, and powder, and, under the pre-i tence of making levies for the Archduke inFlanders, assembled friends who might boji armed in the country when the first blow wasi'l struck. As considerable sums of money werenecessary for these purposes, it was proposed| to admit into the confederacy three wealthymen—Sir Everard Digby, of Tilton and Dry-i! stoke, in Rutlandshire, who was then only[i twenty-four years of age ; Ambrose Rookwood,i of Coldham Hall, in Stanningfield, Suffolk ; andFrancis Tresbam, of Rushton, in Northamp-i tonshire, the two first intimate friends, and the; last a near relation of Oatesby. These gentle-i: men were afterwards sworn in.The particulars of what took place at theI communication of the plot to Tresham byCatesby are unknown; however, he at firstseemed to agree to it cordially, and undertookto furnish ^2000 towards the promotion of thescheme. The sincerity of Tresham seems tohave been always suspected by some of the con¬spirators ; and probably nothing but the temp-:: tation of the great wealth of which he hadlately become possessed upon his father’s death,U and his devotion to the Catholic religion, wouldhave induced them to consent to his receptionamongst them. He was known to be mean,treacherous, and unprincipled ; and his charac¬ter must have been fully understood by Catesby,If);i;Y i'ANVKKS, ORwho was not only his near relation, hut hadbeen brought up with him, and had been en¬gaged with him in several treasonable conspi¬racies. Father Greenway states, that Catesbyafterwards repented that he had admittedTresham into the confederacy; that from themoment of his introduction he mistrusted him ;and that the most fearful forebodings, excitedand supported by ominous dreams portendingthe failure of his scheme, took possession of hismind.As the day of meeting of Parliament ap¬proached, it was finallydetermined that Fawkesshould fire the mine with a slow match, whichwould allow him a quarter of an hour to escape.He was instantly to embark on board a vesselin the river, and to proceed to Flanders withthe intelligence of what had been done. SirEverard Higby was to assemble a number ofCatholic gentlemen in Warwickshire on the5th of November under pretence of a huntingparty, and Percy was to seize the Prince ofWales, or the Duke of York if the Princeshould go to the Parliament House with theKing. One subject of discussion only arose,whether and how the Catholic Peers should bewarned of their danger. Each conspirator hadfriends, if not relations among them ; but thedanger of communicating the project to solarge a number of persons was considered soimminent, that they despaired of saving all ofthem ; and it was concluded that no expressnotice should be given them, but only such per¬suasion, upon general grounds, as might deterthem from attending. Many of the conspira¬tors were averse to this advice, and angry at itsadoption, and Tresham in particular, for hisTin: GUNPOWDER PLOT. 17sisters had married Lords StourtoQ and Mount-eagle. Indeed, Tresham so passionately re¬quired that Lord Mounteagle should havewarning of his danger, that very high wordsensued; and when he was thwarted in hiswishes, he hinted that the money he had pro¬mised would not be forthcoming ; and fromthis time he ceased to attend their councils.On Saturday, the 26th of October, ten daysbefore the meeting of Parliament, Lord Mount-eagle unexpectedly gave a supper in a housewhich he had not lately occupied. Circum¬stances have given rise to a belief that he wasprivy to the plot at the time that he invitedhis friends, and that the supper was only givenas a convenient opportunity of discovering theconspiracy to them. Be this as it may, whilsthe was at table, a letter was brought to him by■ 1 one of his pages, who stated that he had re¬ceived it in the street from a stranger, whopressed its instant delivery into his master’s- hands. The letter was as follows :—‘ My Lord,—Out of the love I bear to some1 of your friends, I have a care for your preserv-ation ; therefore, I would advise you, as you| tender your life, to devise some excuse to shift) off* your attendance on this Parliament, forGod and man have determined to punish thewickedness of the times. And think notslightly of this advertisement ; but retire your¬self into the country, where you may expect| the event in safety. For though there be noappearance of any stir, yet I say they will re¬ceive a terrible blow this Parliament ; and yetthey shall not see who hurts them. This coun¬sel is not to be contemned, because it may doyou good, and can do you no harm ; for the18 GUY FAWKES, OKdanger is ouiv as soon as you have burned thisletter. And I hope God will give you the graceto make use of it, to whose holy protection Icommend you.—To the Right Honourable theLord Mounteagle.’—This letter has been as¬cribed to Anne, the daughter of Lord Vaux, toMrs Abington, Lord Mounteagle’s sister, toPercy, and to others ; but there seems greaterreasons for believing that no one of these wasthe writer of it, but rather that Tresham wasits author.On the same evening, Lord Mounteagle shew-ed the letter to several Lords of the Council,who, with him, agreed that no steps should betaken until the King returned from hunting atRbyston. The contents of the letter and itscommunication to many of the Council, as wellas to the Secretary of State, soon reached theears of the conspirators ; but, though theirdanger was evident, and the vessel which wasto convey Fawkes to Flanders was lying in theriver, they made no attempt to escape. Allsuspected Tresham to be their betrayer, andho was accused by them, but he vehemently de¬nied the accusation. Since they did not knowaccurately to what extent their proceedingshad been divulged, they had still hope of effect¬ing their design, especially as, upon examina¬tion, Fawkes found that the cellar was notwatched and had not been disturbed. When,however, they heard that, on the 81st of Octo¬ber, the letter had been shewn to the King,their hope diminished and their fears increased.Some of the conspirators left London ; othersconcealed themselves in an obscure lodging;all held themselves ready to start at a moment’swarning. Fawkes alone, with the extraordi-THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.1.9nary courage' which he had displayed through¬out the transaction, took up his station in thecellar. Thus they passed three days of anxietyand suspense.On the Monday afternoon, the Lord Cham¬berlain, whose duty it was to see that all thearrangements for the meeting of Parliamentwere complete, went to the Parliament House,accompanied by Lord Mounteagle, who, it wassaid, expressed a desire to be present at thesearch. They first went into the ParliamentChamber, and remained there a considerabletime; and then, for the alleged purpose oflooking for some stuff of the King’s, they visit¬ed the vaults and cellars under the house.They remarked the great store of coals andwood there, and perceived Fawkes standing ina corner. The Lord Chamberlain, with affect¬ed carelessness, inquired to whom this unusu¬ally large provision of fuel belonged ; and beinginformed that the cellar and its contents be¬longed to Percy, and that he had rented it forabout a year and a half, retired without mak¬ing any more particular search, to report hisobservations to the King. On their way, LordMounteagle expressed his fears and suspicionson the ground, that, though he was an intimatefriend of Percy, and bad lived with him formany years on terms of familiarity, he had notthe least notion that he ever inhabited thishouse. Upon hearing the statement of theLord Chamberlain, who declared the store ofcoals and wood to be beyond all proportion tothe wants of a person who dwelt so little in thehouse as Percy, and that the man (Fawkes) inthe cellar looked like ‘ a very tall and desperatefellow,’ it was determined by the King, with20GUY FAWKES, OHthe co rrence of several of the Privy Council.,tho* cellar should that night be minutely.ed. In order, however, not to excite.mature alarm, they employed Sir ThomasKnevet, a magistrate in Westminster, (whohad been a gentleman of the Privy Chamberin the late Queen’s time, and still held thesame office,) to superintend a complete searchof all the houses and cellars in the neighbour¬hood, under the pretence of looking for somestuff and hangings in the keeping of Whine-ard, the keeper of the King’s wardrobe, whichhad been missing ever since the death of thelate Queen.Meanwhile, the visit of Lord Mounteagle andthe Lord Chamberlain had been quite sufficientto alarm the vigilance of Fawkes. He wentout to inform Percy of what had happened, butreturned himself to his dangerous post; fullydetermined, as he afterwards declared, to haveblown up the house on the first appearance ofdanger, and so to have perished together with Ithose who might come to apprehend him.Shortly before midnight, on the eve of thecelebrated 5th of November, Sir Thomas Kne¬vet, accompanied by a sufficient number of as¬sistants, repaired secretly and suddenly to thehouse. At the moment of their arrival, Fawkeswas stepping out of the door, dressed and boot¬ed, having, as he afterwards said, just thenended his work. He was stayed, and Sir Tho¬mas Knevet proceeded to examine the cellar,where he found thirty-six barrels of gunpowderunder the billets, in casks and hogsheads. Uponthis discovery, Fawkes was seized, and boundhand and foot; a watch, together with slow Imatches and touchwood, were found upon his |TIIF. r.tWPOVDEn PLOT. '11person ; and a dark lantern, with a light in it,was discovered in a corner behind the door ofthe cellar. Fawkes at once avowed his pur¬pose to the magistrate, and declared that ‘ ifhe had happened to be within the house whenhe took him, he would not have failed to haveblown him up, house and all.’Having left a sufficient guard with the pri-i soner, Sir Thomas Knevet repaired to White¬hall to give notice of his success to the Earlli of Salisbury. Such of the Council as slept at1 Whitehall were called, and the others who; were in the town summoned; and the doors(and gates being secured, all assembled in theKing’s bed-chamber. Fawkes was brought intil and questioned. Undismayed by the sudden-Iness of his apprehension, or by the circum¬stances of this nocturnal examination beforethe King and Council, this resolute fanatic be¬haved with a Roman firmness of nerve, whichfilled the minds of all present with astonish¬ment. To the impatient and hurried questionswhich were put to him with some violence andI passion, he answered calmly and firmly. Hegave his name as John Johnson, the servantof Thomas Percy, declared his intention toblow up the King, Lords, and Bishops, andk others who should have assembled at the open¬ing of the Parliament, refused to accuse anyone as his accomplice ; and upon being askedby the King how he could enter upon so bloodya conspiracy against so many innocent persons,declared that ‘ dangerous diseases require adesperate remedy.1 Being questioned as to hisintentions by some of the Scotch courtiers, hetold them that ( one of his objects was to blowthem back into Scotland.1 After a great part22GUY FAWKES, OUof the night had been spent in examination,Fawkes was sent with a guard to the Tower.After having received the news of the appre¬hension of Fawkes, it was agreed by the con¬spirators, who had assembled at Ashby Ledgers,to take up arms with the few followers theycould collect, and to endeavour to excite torebellion the Roman Catholics in the countiesof Warwick, Worcester, and Stafford, togetherwith those of Wales. This scheme was imme¬diately adopted; arms and horses were seizedupon, and different parties despatched overthe country. But all their efforts were in vain,and the failure of the project so complete,that their proceedings served no other pur¬pose than to point them out as members ofthe confederacy. A party of the King’s troopspursued some of the conspirators to Holbeach,and here an obstinate defence was made, inwhich the two Wrights, Percy, and Catesbywere killed, and Rookwood and Thomas Win¬ter wounded. The others were eventuallytaken. Tresham died a natural death in pri¬son ; and on the 27th January 1606, eight per¬sons, namely, Robert Winter, Thomas Winter,Guy Fawkes, John Grant, Ambrose Rookwood,Robert Keyes, and Thomas Bates, were triedat Westminster by a special commission forbeing concerned in the Powder Plot. Sir Eve-rard Digby was arraigned and tried separatelyfor the same crime. Upon the trials, no wit¬ness was orally examined ; the evidence con¬sisted of the written declaration of Digby’sservant and of the prisoners themselves.There is reason to believe that Fawkes wastortured in order to make him confess morefully. All the prisoners were found guilty,THE GUNPOWDER PLOT.23and upon all the sentence of death was passed.The prisoners, after their condemnation andjudgment, were again removed to the Tower,where they remained till the Thursday follow-Iing, on which day four of them, viz. Sir Eve-rard Digby, Robert Winter, John Grant, andThomas Bates, were drawn upon sledges andhurdles to a scaffold erected at the western endof St Paul’s Church-yard. Great pains weretaken to render the spectacle of the executionas imposing as possible ; and, among other ar-; rangements made in order to guard againstany popular tumult, a precept was issued byIthe Lord Mayor to the Aldermen of each wardin the city, requiring him to provide an ableand sufficient man, armed with a halbert, tostand at the door of every dwelling-house inthe streets through which the conspiratorswere to be drawn to execution, from seveno’clock in the morning until the return of theSheriff.Sir Everard Digby was the first appointedfor execution, who ascended the scaffold with afirm and manly bearing; and, in a speechshort but expressive, stated his conviction in1 the justice of the cause he had been engagedin in its religious aspect, but regretted it hadbeen against the legal authority, for which heasked forgiveness of God, of the King, and thewhole kingdom. Having engaged in prayer,he ascended the ladder, and was immediatelylaunched into the unseen world.Winter and Grant expressed themselves innearly the same terms, who, after having prayed,ascended the fatal drop.Bates, who was the last executed, expressedhimself as sorry for his co-operation in the24GUY FAWKES, OR THE GUNPOWDER Pf.OT.jdot, ami regretted his having yielded to thesuggestion of his master, Oatesby, and engagedin the conspiracy which had been attendedwith such baneful fruits. He was then hangedand quartered. Thus terminated the Thurs¬day's proceedingsOn the following day were drawn from theTower to the Old Palace in Westminster, overagainst the Parliament House, where a scaf¬fold was erected for their execution, ThomasWinter, the younger brother, Ambrose Rook-wood, Robert Keyes, and Guido Fawkes theminer, by some called the ‘ devil of the vaultsof whom says an old author, ‘ had he not beena devil incarnate, he had never conceived sovillanous a thought, nor been employed in sodamnable an action.1Winter and Rook wood appeared sorry forhaving been guilty of such a diabolical offence;and, having hung a short time at the halter,were dragged to the block, and there quicklydespatched.Keyes made little or no show of repentance,but went up the ladder in a most indifferentmanner, where, not staying long, he turnedhimself off with a great leap which broke therope ; but after his fall, he was drawn to theblock, and divided into four parts.Fawkes, who was much weakened by thetorture he had undergone for the purpose ofextracting from him any' statements that mightprejudice those of whom the Government enter¬tained suspicions, with difficulty, and with theassistance of the executioner, ascended thescaffold, and expiated, with his life, the offenceof which he was the intended perpetrator.James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.