THEBATTLEOFWATERLOO.CONTAINING, THEDU'KE OF WELLINGTON’S DISPATCHTO EARL BATHURST,ALSO,THE FLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS;AN# AVisit to the Field of Battle^With a Description ofThe Bloody Engagement;AND AVISIT TO THE FRENCH HOSPITALS,EDINBURGH:frinted and Sold by J. Mobp.ek, Cowgate.DUKE OF WELLINGTON’SDISPATCHTO EARL BATHURST.Waterloo, June 19th, 181S.My Lord,BUONAPARTE hiving collected the 1st, id, jd,4th and 6th oorps of the French army, and the Im¬perial Guards and nearly all the cavalry, on theSambre, and between that river and the Meuie, be¬tween the 1 oth and the i4.th of the month, advancedon the 16th and attacked the Prussian posts at Thu-in and Lobez, on the Sambre, at day-light in themorning-I did not hear of these events till the evening oflh* 16th, and I immediately ordered the troops toprepare to march ; and afterwards to march to theleft, as soon as I had iutelligence from other quar¬ters to prove that the enemy’s movement uponCharleroi was the real attack.The entiriy drove the Prussian posts from theSambre on that day; and General Ziethen, whocommanded the corps which had been at Charleroi,retired upon Flcurus; and Marshal Priace Blucherconcentrated the Prussian army upon Sgmbreffe,holding the villages in front of his position of St.Amand and Ligny.The enemy continued his march along the roadfrom Charleroi towards Brussels* and oiffthe sameevening, the »ith, smelted a brigade of the armyof the Netherlands, under Prince de Weimar,, post¬ed at Frasue, and forced it back to the farm house«on the same road, called Lcs Quartre Bras.The Prince of Orange immediately reinforced thisbrigade with another of the same division, underGeneral Perponcher, and, in the morning early, re¬gained pait of the ground which had been lost, soas to have the command of the communication lead¬ing from Nivciles and Brussels, with Marshal Bih-cher’s position.In the mean time I had directed the whole armyto march upon Les Q-artre Bras, and the 5th divi¬sion, under Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Picton,arrived about half-past two in the day, followedby the corps of troops under the Duke of Bruni'wick,and i tterwards by the contingent of Nassau.At this time the enemy commenced an attackupon Prince Blucher with his whole force except¬ing the ist and 2d carps ; and a corps of cavalryunder General Kellerman, with which he attackedour post at Les Quartre Bras.The Prursian army maintained their positionwith their usual gallantry and peifeverance, againf;a great difparity of numbers, as the 4th corps oftheir army, under General Bolow, h.d not joined,and I was not able to arfsift them as I wished, as Iwas attacked myfelf, and the troops, the cavalry i«particular, whicii had a long diftauce to march, hadnot arrived.We maintained our position alfo, and completelydefeated and repulfed atl the enemy’:, attempts toget pofsefsion of it. The enemy repeatedly attack¬ed us with a large tody of infantry and cavalry,fupported by a numerous anti powerful srcdlerybe ni»de fcvcral charges with the Wxhry upon ourin .aiitry, but all wire rrpuisti ii' tlie fteadirst nian»uer. In this affair, His Royal Highness the Princeof Oranic, the Duke of Brunswick, and LieutenantGeneral Sir Thomas Picton and Major-GeneralSir James Kempt, and Sir D-mis Pack, who wereen8ag£d Iron* the commencement of the enemy’*attack, highly diftinguished themfclves.The troops of the fifth division, and thofe of the3iunTw/ck corps, were long feverelv engaged, andconducted thcmfelvea with the utmoft gallantry. Iwaft particulsiriy mention the 28th, 4id, 78th, andgjd regiments, and the battalion of Hanoverians.Our lofs was great, as your Lord drip will per¬ceive by the cnclofcd return : and I have particu-f ‘ily to regret his Serene Highnefs the Duke ofBrunfwick, who fell, fighting gallantly, at the headof his troop;.Although Marlhal Blucher had maintained hisposition at Sombrcf, he 1'till found himfelf muchweakened by the feverity of the .contest in whichhe had been engaged, and, as the fourth corps hadnot arrived, he determined to fall back, and con¬centrated his army upon Wavre; and he marched»o the night after the action was over.This movement of the Marfhal’s rendered ne-cefsary a corrcfponding one on my part; and Iretired from the Farm of Quartre Bras upon Ge-nappe, and thence upon Waterloo the next morn¬ing, the 17th, at ten o’clock.The enemy made no effort to purfue MarflialBlucher. On the contrary, a patrole which I lentto Sombrcf, in the morning, found sll quiet, andthe enemy’s videttes fell back as the patrole ad¬vanced. Neither did he attempt to mol eft ourinarch to tha rear, although made in the middle ofthe day, excepting by following with a large body.of cavalry (brought from hie right) the cavalry ilfi-der the carl of Uxbridge.This gave Lord Uxbridge an opportunity ofcharging them with the 1ft Life Guards, upoir theirdebouchc from the village ot Genappe, upon whichoccasion hiaLordfhip has declared himlclf to fas wellsatiffied with that regiment.The position which I t»ok up, in front of Waterloo, crofsed the high roads ftom Charleroi andNiv'lkj and had its right thrown back to a ravinenear Mcrke Brainc, which was occupied, and itlleft extended to a height above the hamlet Ter laHaye, which was likewife occupied. lu front ofthe right centre, and near the Nivellc road, weoccupied the houfe and garden of Hougoumont,which covered the return of that flank; and in frontof the left centre, we occupied the farm of La HayeSainte. By our left we communicated with Mar-ihal Prince Blucher, at Wavre, through Oluim;and the Mar Dial had promifed me, th^t in cafe we(hould be attacked, he would fupport me with oneor more • rps, as might bs nectfsary.The enemy collected his army, with the excep.tion of the third corps, which had been fent to ob-lerve Marfhat Blucher, on a range of heights inour front in the courfe of the night of the lyth andyefterday morning ; and about ten o'clock he com¬menced a furious attack upon our poits at Hougou-raont. I had occupied that poft with a detach¬ment from General Byng’s brigade of Guards,which was in position hear its reer : acd it was forfeme time under the command of Lieutenant Colo¬nel Macdonald. and afterwards of Colonel Home**wd I am happy to add, that it *as maintained,throughout the day, with the utmof: gallantry byihele brave troops, notMthftarding the repeated«norss of large h due of the eftemy to obtain po*.ffffmn of it. r>6Tliii attack upon the right of our centre was ac¬companied by a very heavy cannonade upon ourwhole line, which waa deftined to fupport the re¬peated attacks c f cavalry and infantry occasionallymixed, but fomefimet feparate, which were madeupon it. In one of thefe, tSie enemy carried thefarm houfe of Haye Sainte, as. the detachment ofthe light battalion of the legion which occupied ithad expended all its ammunition, and the enemy oc¬cupied the only communication their was with them.The enemy repeatedly charged our infantry witkhis cavalry ; but thefe attacks were uniformly unsuc-cefsful, and Jjhcy afforded opportunities to our ca¬valry to charge in one of which Lord E. Somer-fet’s brigade, Royal Horfc Guards, and Firft Dra¬goon Guards, highly diftinguilhed thcmfelves, havingtaken many prifoners and an eagle.Thefe attacks were repeated till about feven inthe evening, when the enemy made a defperateeffort with the cavalry and infantry to force our leftcentre, near the farm of La Haye Sainte, which,after a fevere conteft, was defeated; and havingobferved that the troops retired from the attack ingreat confusion, and that the march of GeneralBulow’s corps by Fritchermont upon Planchenoitand La Belle filliance, had begun to take effect;and as I could perceive the fire of his cannon, andas Marftial Prince Blucher bad joined in perfen,with a corps of his army to the left of our line byObain, I determined to attack the enemy, and im¬mediately advanced the whole line of infantry, fup*ported by the cavalry and artillery. /Ehe attack1'ucceeded in every point; the enemy' was forcedfrom his pofnion on the heights, and fled in the Ut-ihost csnfifion, leaving behind him, as far as I"onId jodge, one hundred and fifty pieces of can-non, with their ammunition, which i'sli into ou.hands.I continued the purfait till long after dark, andthen difcontinued it, only on account of the fatigueof onr troops, who had been engaged during twelvehours, and becaufe I found myfelf on the fameroad with Marfhal Blueher, who afsured me of hisintention to.follow the enemy throughout the night:he hasfent me word this morning, that he had takenfixty pieces of cannon belonging to the ImperialGuard, and fevcral carriages, baggage, flee, belongingto Buonaparte, in Genappe.I propofe to move this morning upon Nivclles, andnot to difeontinue my operations.Your Lordfhip will obferve, that fuch a defperateaction could not be fought, and fucb advantagescould not be gained, without great lofs ; and, I amforry to add, that ours has been hnmenfe. In Lieu¬tenant General Sir Thomas Picton, his Majefty ha*Tuftaincd the lofs of an officer who has frequently dif-tinguifhed himfelf in his fervice; ami he fell glorioui-Ijr leading his divihon to a charge with bayonets, bywhich one of the moft ferious attacks made by theenemy'on our pofition was defeated.The Earl of Vxbridge, after having fuccefefulygot through the ardous day received a wound by al-moft the laft fhot fired, which will, I am afraid, de¬prive his Majefty for fome time of his fervices.His Royal Highness the Prince of Orange dif-tinguifhed himlelf by his gallantry and conduct tillhe received- a wound from a musket bill, through thefcoulder, which obliged him to quit the field.It gives me the greateft fatisfaction to afsureyour lordlhip, that the army never, upon any oc-enfion, conducted itfelf better. rf he’ divifion ofGuards, under L'eutcnant General Cook«, who ia8fsverely wounded, Major General Maltlaad, amiMajor Byn^, fet an example which was followedby all; and there is no officer, nor defcription oftroops, that did not behave well. I am alfo pir-ticularly indebted to General Lord Hill, for his as-filtance and conduct upon this, as upon all formeroccafions.I (hould not do jmtice to my fee'ings or toMarfhal Blucher and the Prufsian army, if I didnot attribute the fuccefsful refult of this ardouaday to the cordial and timely afsistancc received fromthem.I he operation of General Bulow upon the ene¬my’s flank, was a moft decided one; and, even ifI had not found inyl'elf in a fituation to make theattack, which pioduced the final relult, ft wouldhave forced the enemy to retire, if his attacksihould have foiled and would have prevented himfrom taking advantage of them, if they fhould un¬fortunately have fucceeded.I fend with this difpatch, two eagles taken bythe troops in this action, which Major Percy willhave the honour of laying at the feet of his RoyalHighnefs—I beg leave to recommend him to yourbrdlhip’s protection.I have the honor, &c.(Signed) Welumgto*.To his brother he afterwards wrote,—“Neverhad 1 fought fo hard for victory—and never, fromthe gallantry of the enemy had i been fo near beingbeaten. In a letter to his mother, Lady Morning-ton, the Duke of Wellington faya of Buonoparte—*< That he did his duty—that he fought the battlewith infinite skill, bravery, and perfeverance ;—andthe victory is folely to be aferibed to the fuperierphyfual force, and ccnftancy of Britifh foldiers,’’9FLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS.SOME of the families of the firft refpectabHity,whom 1 had cccafion to mention before, as being f»anxious to get over to the Continent in time to beprefent at the opening of the campaign, were atBrufsela on the eventful Saturday, (as is by no meansimprobable,) when the Prufsian horfemen came gal-loping into the town, cutting their hurfes with theirfabres to expeditate their flight, I think it very like-ly that they would lofeno time in turning their facesagain to their own happy Country, and be glad tomix with the promifeuous throng.Sunday came, and the battle about nine miles offbegan to roar. It was deferibed by the inhabitant*of Brufsels as one uninterrupted peal of thunder Ltheir ears for eight hours“ Then great events were in the gale,“ Ai.d each hour brought a varying ta!e.,,But the fears of the inhabitants always made theFrench fucceLtul—What then must they have feltwhen the Englilh baggage paffed through Bruffels,and crowded the road to Antwerp. No Wonderthat the rumour was then believed that the Frenchhad gained a complete victory. The entire popula¬tion were now to fly, a fatisfactory piece of evUenceof no great attachment to the French. W« areloft, we are lost, was the only cry to be heardjmong the inhabitants. My friend rcfolved on flighton his lady’s account, and had the extraordinaryfortune to reach Mechline, about j 5 miles, unhurt.They got a place in the track boat on the canal •and being clofc to the road, faw all its horrors?When horfes fell, the waggon wheels crufhed the-, 10-suier; cagg-ige was thrown off, an^. carried aifefby the peafants, to be-cut *pen and plundered^Jjreat iuiMs of money were ia thia way loft; andclothes and other property fpread over the fields*An Engiilh Officer, who had loft a foot, and waacarried on his fervant’s back came and begged t*oe take* into the boat. He. was known to my friend,who, although the paffengers intent on felf-prefer-nation oppofea it by abfolute force obtained hisadmilfion. At Mechline, they found it very difR.«' to obtain admifsiosi into a houfc; and the diffi-culty was increafed when the people were told thatthe lady was ill. Mofc providentially they procur*ed a carriage to Antwerp next day. On their arriv¬al there, they heard an altercation between theircoachman and a woman on the top, whom he had•taken up, and would not let down till fhe paid afranc. They found this poor woman to be the wi¬dow, newly fo made, of a foldier killed at QuartreBras; and the mother of a child which Ihe had theday befora feen crulhtd to death by a waggon wheel.Many of the wounded were travelling the fame road,fome had loft a hand or an arm ; thoufands were ohfoot; and all forts of carriages and horfes crowdedthe road, and iucreafad the danger. The i'c^ae wasbeyond defeription horrible : but a feeling of terrorand fdf-prefervation much diminifheJ the concern forthe fufferers.—This is very common in the horrorsof war. The peifona cruihed in the flight to Ant¬werp, weie thrown into the ditches. Ihe confnfionwas dreadful yet no one had feen a fingli French¬man !What then muft have b-.en the feelings of the poorgardener at Hougomoot, at the time he was obligedto remain clofe prifouer in his garden, in the midftof the carnage, bec^ufe, (as he candidly, avowed.,when the batvU was begun he coil’d uot venture®ut of it—of the farmer Lacofte, in hu pgiioned fit-uation befide Buonaparte—or, if I may venture f»t® fpeak, of the commandant of that nameiefs corpsof Gentlemen light horfe volunteer, when he re-•eived the unwelcome hint from Lord Wellington’!aid-du-camp, that an opportunity cccu-sed for themto charge the French cavalry j their colonel, in greatfurprife, objected the enemy's ft:ength—cuirafses,—and the conlideration, which had unaccountably,be faid, efcaped the Commander in chief, that hitregiment were “ all gentlemen !!” This divertingrefponfe was carried back to Lord Wellington: whodifpatched the meffenger again to fay, that if thegentlemen would take poft on an eminence, whichhe pointed to in the rear, they would have an ex-cellent view of the bst le ; and he would leave thechoice of a proper time to charge, entirely to theiro.wn fagacity and diferetion, in which he had thefulltft confidence. The colonel actually thanked theaid-du camp for this difttnguifhcd pod of honour, andfollowed by his gallant train, with their very highplumes, (the prefent great point cf continental mili«tary foppery), was oot of danger in a moment.VISIT TO THE FIELD OF BATTLE,IN the courfe «f the MoncVy, the news of thedefeat of the French arrived; and on the followingday my friend and his wife returned to BrufselsOn the Wednefday he vifited the field of Waterloo.His account of it is dreadful!—The firft thing which{truck him at a didgnce, was the quantity of capsarid hats ftrewed on the ground. It appeared as ifthe field had been covered with crows. When ha12< rr,e «t> Uif Jpftt,. the 5g|it mu truly mocking;. Ai■ hr ft there was » dreaufu! b.cv.onderance of Er.itilhflaii:., which looked very ill; .bin mere '141 advance,tie rwenpe made life If dreadfully marked, for tenFrench . by dead for one.BriUfli, The field was fomuch covered «ith blood, that it appeared as if it hadbeen, comnlctely flooded with it 5 dead horfes feemedinnurnerahle :—and the peafantry employed in bury¬ing 1 he dead, gtuierally .hript the bodies firft. .Ofcourfe thelc people got a booty, when they re¬turned out of the neighbouring wood, after the bat¬tle ; many of them fome hundred pounds. A greatquantity of cap plates, cuirafses, &c. were taken bythem and fold as relics.We resumed to the tree, and directed our ftepstveflward, to go along the Britilh line to the right.There wan no difficulty in tracing the line by thegraves of the brave men who had fallen where the*-were firft polled. The furvivors never quitted it,but to advance. The very ground was hallowed;but it was trode by us with rcfpect and gratitude;the multitude below, fo late#y interred, oceafioneda very impreffive fubject of reflection.No one, who has 'not feen it, can imagine howtouching it was to sic, ftrewed around their graves,fragments of what the brave men wore or carriedwh.cn they fell. Among the fbaw of the troddendown corn, which ttill covered the field, ^ay caps,fhoes, pieces nf uniforms and fhirts, tufts, cockades,feathers, ornamenml horfe-hair, red ana black, andwhat moft llruck us, great quantities'of letters, andleaves of books. The latter were much too far de¬faced by rain and muc^, to make it worth our whileto lift any cf tberii. In one letter, we could juftjnake out the words, fo affecting m their circurn-flances, “ Mv dear husband.rsTh« tract-over wiiich t!i« guard moved, and overwinch they fled, was ftill, when we paffed it, coveredwith their fpo;l and marked with horfeg’ feet, can¬non wheels, and the deeper furrows of bails andbembs. Ponfonby fell here.A thoufand French dead, alone, lay oh this fpot;and even yet it exhibited holders, (one we obfervedwhich had been filled with blood) Itandard holder*,pieces of bridles, flraps, girth*. &c all denoting a tre¬mendous conflict of cavalry ; and the caps of thegrenadiers of the French guard, lay yet in confidera-blc numbers, with rags of their uniforms. Somemore affect ing remains were alfo there, pieces oftaitsn, and of black, cllrich feather*: the plaids and.plumes of ScotlandArduous and painful, indeed, mull have been thatftniggle, in which upwards of 2oo,ooo men on bothlides, were engaged in the work of death for nine orten hours.—We may readily conctive what a horriblething it would be, to behold two columns of infantrycharging one another in the greatafl fury, with thebayonet, and occafionafly pouring well-directed yol-lies of musketry into each others ranks; but fuchwere the deadly vifit* of the cannon and cavalry onthat dreadful day, that the author whom we have folargely quoted, was repeatedly afsured by officerswith whom he ronverled, that tkefe interludes of in¬fantry battle were a kind of refieflmicat, after theirtoils with other arms, ft need not then be wonder¬ed, that Marilial Ney, in hit tetter to the Duke ofOtranto; call:, it a terrible battle, and tne moft fright¬ful carnage ever he had witneUcd; and that it wasfidd of the Duke of Wellington, that often he hadprayed in agony during the dreadful conflict, f * theTrufsians on the night.But horrific as tbe fpectacls of a field of battle.amli be, when covered witfi the dying and the dead ;and the dreadful fuflerings to which the actual com*batantfl are neceffarily expofed; their are otherpainful emotions—there are other evils attcadant ona Hate of warfare, which humanity has caufe to de-pUre.^ What, for infiance, muft the neighbouringinhabitants feel, who refide in a country immediate*ly adjoining the feat of war? “ How dreadful” faysthe judicious Hall, “ to hold every thing at the»ercy of an enemy, and to receive life itfelf as aboon dependant on the fword ? How boundless thefears which fucli a fituation jnuft infpire, where theifsues of life and death are determined by no knownlaws principles or cuftoms, and no conjecture can beformed of our deftiny except as far as it is dimly de-cyphered in characters of blood in the dictates of re-venge> and the caprices of power. Conceive but fora moment the cQuflernatioa which the aporoaches ofan invading army would imprei's on the peaceful vil¬lagers in this neighbourhood. When you hareplaced yourfelf, for an inflant in that liluatitu, youwill le«i n to fympathile with thofe unhappy countrieswhich have fuftained the ravagevof arms. But howJSit poflible to give you an idea of thefe horrors ?—Here you behold rich harvefts, the bounty of heavenand the reward of indoflry, conlbmed in a moment,or trampled under foot: while famine and pefiilencefollow the ftepsof defolation—There the cottages ofpeafants given up to the dames ; mothers expiringthrough fear, not for themfelves, but their infants ;the inhabitants fiying with their helpless babes in altdirections, miferaLle fugitives on their native foil!-—In another part you witness opulent cities taken byftorm; the Hreets, where no founds were heard butthofe of peaceful mirth and contentment, filled on aHidden with flaughter and blood, refouoding with thecries q£ the purfuing and the p'irfued j the palaces ofnobles demo'ifhed, the houfes of the rich pillaged,the chaftity of virgins and of matrons violated ; andevery age, fex, and ranjc,' ndngkd in promifeuousmaflacre and ruin.”Defcription of the Battle of Waterloo*By an Officer prefent.As we flood on our commanding fpot, the firftthought was moft naturally of the numbers of thecontending armies rcfpectively. The Britilh werefated by Buonaparte himfelf, at 80,000, and certain¬ly they have never been made out to have been more.Marlhal Blucher eflimates them at the fame number .Of thefe not more than 30,000 were actually Britilhthe reft were Germans, Belgians, and Dutch. Therewere ifluredly no corps of the Pruflians in the battlebefore the evening.The French army certainly were 130,000* mak¬ing the enormous balance in their favour of 50,oo»men ; and, be it never forgotten, all French, and theheft troops in France.In truth, the Britilh army were a mile and a halffrom the neareft skirts of the wood, and never hadane man within it; and fo far from being crufhedand overlaid, the raafTcs; and of the French guard too,Were ofteu routed by the bold dilh of an almoft in-credibly fmall proportion of their numbers.—nay,lometimes, as will afterward* be told of the High-* According to account given of the Port Folio,found in, Buonaparte’s carriage, be paffed the Frenchiiontier with iYc,Ooo men onlv.landerc and Scotch Greys, and it happened in manyether parts of the field befides, by the prodigies ofnearly infolated individual valour.Buonapate knew the number of his already de¬voted adverfaries well; and, with his ufual prelump-tion, expreffed great aftonilhirenf to fee their undis¬mayed front on that fide of the foreft. His fear was,that they would efcape him in the night; and he ex¬claimed on firft feeing their order of battle with thedawn—41 Ah! I have them then, thefe Englith l’’The regular battle,- it is well known, commencedby chealmoft fimultaneous advance (and wediftinctlyfaw their courfe) of three entire coi ps a’armee on therigbt, left, and centre, of the Britifh line. The at¬tack on the right had for its firft object the carryingof the poll of Hougoumont, the key of the pofition :in pofeeffion of which, the French could have turnedthe Britifiiright. That.column had thclhortell way tomove; and, under King Jerome, it was there the can¬non and musketry firft begin.The utmoft fuccefs of probably 30 ooo men was,obliging the light companies of the Ift, ad and 3dfoot guards, .under the command of Lord Saltoun,to take refuge within the pod, inftead of defendingthe fmall wood, on the ontfide of it The poft itfelfwas ne»er occupied by the enemy for a moment. Theguaids kept it. in 1'pue of grape, and musketry, andballs, and ftiells, and fhmes ; till they ifsued from itvictorious in the hour of vengeance.The corps d’armee deftined for the left, (the 6th)foon arrived in the firft attack in that quarter aboutthe centre of the Britifh left wing : but were calmlyreceived and repulfed, by the admirably ferved ar-tilliry, and by the 42d 79th and gad Highlanders,fuopurted, it is believed by the lit and 28th regi-merits, under the ijmentedbir ThamasPicton. Thewhole flope was'm our view. Nothing could be moretremendous than the mode of attack ; it was headedby artillery, which difeharged {bowers of iron grape{hot. each bullet larger than a walnut. It was abattle on the part of the French, of cavalry and can¬non, both equipped as if by magic, and much moreformidable than had ever been known iu the Frencharmies, even to take the field.Heading thefe colums were the iron-cafed cuir-afiiert, in as complete mail, bread and back as in thedays of that defenfive armour upon which tbc musketballs were heard to ring as they glanced off, withoutinjuring or even (lunning the wearer. Thefe men atarms had immenfc infantry columns of fupport attheir backs.A Hunted hedge bounded cadi fide of a narrowcrofs road, which ran along the whole of the Bri-tilh left wing, joining the great road near theDuke of Wellington’s tree, already mentioned. Inthe hedge there were a number of gaps, which had.been made to ferve as a kind of embrafures for a lineof the Britifh cannon of the left wing ; and a triflingbank only here and there, two or three feet high,on which the hedge grew, and in which apertures forthe guas were cut where neceffary, was the onlything refembling (belter, whieh any portion of ourartillery enjoyed.When the cannon and infantry had ftaggered thetnafleS of the enemy, and lomcwhat calmed theirfury; round the extremity of the crol# road, fullon the flank of the foe—horfc, in perfect condition;men, in Heady determination-—wheeled, like awhirlwind, the Royals Greys, and Esiniskillcns—England, Scotland, and Ireland, in high rivalryand irrcfiftible union, tn vain for the I'esond time.tbe iron cafe*, their cannon was defected and tak¬en; and t!;e columns of infantry were thrown'lntofuch confufion, that they had juft time to get beyondtbe range of $he prudent purfuit^f their adveifaries^whofe warfare was yet defenfive. The dragoons andinfantry with their captured cannoi* and eagles,calmly returned to their place in pofition, to awaitthe next advance of the enemy.If our prefeat ground had the well-fought roundnow faintly deferibed, in full view; fo had Napol¬eon’s ftation, about a mile along the road from wherewe ftood. With the poor farmer Lacofte pinionedon horfeback beSde him, ftood the Emperor, unableto conceal his aftonifhment at the recoil, and almoftfight, of his beft troops ; and conftrained in fpite ofhimfelf, repeatedly to mutter complements to thefpirit, rapidity, and fteadinefs of the Britifh cavalry ;Thefe Britilh fight admirably,?’ faid he to Soult;** hut they muft give way.”—“ No, fir, they preferbeing cut to pieces,” was the anfwer of him whoknew fomething of them. The grey horfes efpreiai-ly ftruck him, and he often repeated, “ What finetroops 1”The attacks now defcribed, we are told, mightferve as a fair fpecimen of the reiterated war duringthe entice day. From eleven in the morning tififeven at night, it confifted of a fucceffion of fuchaffaults, with unabated fury, and increafing*num-bers, and often with a boldrwk and deadly eSect,which perplexed our foldiers, and put thei-r match-left firmnels to the utmoft trial. It may be believ¬ed that every frefh onfet fwept away multitudes•f our infantry ; ftill the furvivors gave not an inchOf ground, but made go id the lines, and firm thefquares.—No men in Europe could have enduredmore than they did.—Again and again the enemy’scan non rebounded from their adamantine front, dif-maycd and fcatfcrcd. These were the breathingtimes of err heroes! Line was with admirable ala¬crity formed for a greater breadth of fire thaa thefquares afforded, immediately on feeing the backplates of the cuirsffes ; when maffes of French in¬fantry approached, with a heavy fire of musketry,They did ‘go through their work,’ as Napoleonoften muttered, ‘unlike any troops lie had everfeeo.’Such were the dreadful vifits of cannon and cavalry,that, as I have been afeured, tbefc interludes ofinfantry battles were a kind of rcfrefhment, aftertheir toil witli other arms—They never took thetrouble to look at the numbers; they felt as if boy*bad attacked them, merely to keep them in wind;and invariably routed the columns by a \*rj fewfleps in advance with pointed bayonets.The Duke, in vifiting different points was oftenreceived with a fhout of impatience to be led oneThe gallant 95th were very tired of the iron cafes,and the iron grape {hot. An immenfe body ofFrench infantry happened to approach that nobleregiment at one time when the commander was pay¬ing them a vifit; “ Let us at ’em my Lord.” letus down upon ’em,” quite regardlefs of their num¬bers. “ Not yet,” replied the chief, “ not yet mybrave men, but you {hall have at them fbon j firm alittle longer ■, we mud not be beat; what would theyfcy in England >”From our advantage ground we had gained a veryfatisfactory general idea of the field, and beforefetting out on a circuit of more minute infpection,went down to tbe farm houfe of La-Haye Ssint, toexamine the date in which the conflict had left thatport. Much of the wreck of tbe battle lay betweenthe Duke of Wellington’s Ration and the farm-houfe, which manifefted the haz^d to which h*bsd been expofed. It is juft an ordinary farm-houle20ir.d eouvt of ofilies. TJie lioufe forms dne fide ofa fquare and the effices the other tliree; the courtyard, collecting the manure in the middle, and fticl-lering the cattle. The fide oppofite to the houfeis a long building for cows ; the pafsage being fep*arated from the cow's flails by a parapet abovefour feet high. At each end of the paffage is alarge door or gate, both of which were literallyriddled with musket balls, fired from within, andfrom without* as could eafily be diftioguifiied fromthe kind of hole the ball had made. The bodies,after the action, were heaped up in the cow’s flails,as high as the parapet. The whole farm houfe,yard, and offices, might have afforded room forjO\>o or 1500 men to act. They had made holesfor mnfketry all around the building ; and many ahole had been made for them by tbe enemy. Thewhole prefented a feene of lhattered rui i, whichCould not be looked upon without a degree of in-tereft amounting to terror. It flood a noble monu¬ment of the determined valour of our Germanbrethren in arms.Some very po»r children who feemed to ftarveabout the ruins foon joined us, and began to begmoney from us with moft perfevering importunity.Their miferable appearance was in perfect agreementwith the feene of defolation about them. We fawno grown people who feem’d to have any intereft inthe place.Having fuccecded in opening the ..ffeattered doorwhich led out to the fie ds to the weft, we faw fev-cral woman flill engaged in the lately moft lucrativeoccup lion of gleaning up any, thing which theycould fdl to ttrangers. Tbe fame perfons had, veryprobably been active in ftrippiug and plunderingthe flam. W« asked them wht.e they were duringthe action:—' Ail ia the wood.’’—Did they hearthe noifc ?—The ani\vir was a flm.g and look at'dreadful rccollertion. I teeoied to be findiagvery little wc-rtU taking up. W- were ourfelvrs,at the moment, more fortunate, for among fotaeiUaw, and pl-inly marked with blood, wc found aFrench bayonet which we b'ought away with us.If the unknown dead called forth thefe feelings,much more did the Confcioufnefs of -dan.ling on thefpot, where fome one, known to us, hid “noblyfought and nobly died.” Wc ftood where tlven in-tiereiling Sir William de Lancey met his death, whenrallying, with great fpirit and effect, a battalion ofHanoverians, which had got into confufion. Henobly refuted to occupy the time of the furgeons withJiis wound, which he had heard them pronounce mor¬tal, when they thought him infenfible. He was re¬moved to the village of Waterloo, where he died.That gallant young man’s early name, and jult fa¬vour with his great commander, excited general anddeep regiet for his fate; and no where more than inEdinburgh, where he had been married Only a fewweeks before.Indeed the inflanees of heroic death were as num¬erous as they Were affecting. Colonel Miller ofthe firfl. Guards reguefted a iaft fight of the coloursunder which he had fought. He killed them fer¬vently and begged they might be waved over himtill he expired.The lamented Captain Curfon, Lord Scarfdale'sfon, met his fate with aimoft “ military glee.” Infalling from his horfe, he called out gaily to LordMarch, who was riding with him at a gallop—“Good b’ye, dear March.1’ And by one effortmore, when bis friend had left him for the urgentduty of animating a foreign corps, id very critical'tircumflances, he looked up, and cried, “ Well done,<fc*r March.”The afflicting idea ftrongly occurred, of the nextday’ll horrora of fuch a field as Waterloo. Num¬bers «f the ciefperately wounded arid dying, in themidft of the deati, raifcd their heads, wlien wifitorsto the fcej'e paffed th.em, to implore water, or tobeg at their hands to end their.agonies. Many ofthe wounded were not removed till Wednefday, thethud day after the battle.The »2th Tight dragoons was pofttd near thePrince of Orange. Their charges were of the moftfpirited kind ; and nothing but the cuiraffes enabledthe French dragoons to reiilt them. In the accountof fo much pure valour without trick or cover, a-gainft fo much"iron, it is not difficult to decide wherehonour would award the balance. Many brave menwere facrificed to the iron cafes, and taffeta flagswhich frightened their horfes. A gallant youngfriend of mine own, Mr Elliot Lockhart, eldeft fonof the member for Selkirkfliire, lay near the fpot wehad now reached. He had juft joined the 12thdragoons, and in the firft charge of his regiment, iii%which he bore a very diftinguiflied part, received awound which was inftantly fatal. There was amelancholy fatisfacticn in beholding the fpot of hi«honourable grave ; a prouder fepulchre the turf onwhich the foldicr falls, than the proudeft maufuleumon confecrated ground.No part of the field was more fertile in impref-five affociations, than the ground of the 30th and73d regiments, brigaded under our gallant country-Oiaif, feverely wounded in the battle. Sir ColinHalket. I had already heard much of the fumnefsof thefe brave tioops; and was to hear ftill more.To no fquare did the artillery, and particularly thecuiraffiers, pay more frequent and tremendous vi-fits ; and never was it lhaken for a moment. Thejilmoft intimacy of the foldiers with thefe cwuh-bringing vuiUnta, increakd To much 35 the day advaDced that they began to recognife their Lcs.The,,- boldnefs mu<A provoked our men. Thevgalloped up to the bayonet points, whereof JJctheir horfes made a ful hop, to the great danger ofpitching their riders into the %uare. They thenrode round and round the featlefs bulwarknets; and ,n all the confidence of panoplywalkcdthfir hotTes, to have more time^ feaJchfot lome chafm in the ranks, wh'rc thev miokr • inothing incommoded the rider, except bringing downhia boric, which at lad became the genial orderIn that event he furrendercd himfelf, and was recciv-ed within the Iquare, till he couid be fent prifoner to£ 7 l-\nerc{lty when it is con-Wered that the French fpared very fe-v lives,U was in their power to take. Many officers weremurdered, after giving up their fwords; and whenwere collected, cavalry were Vent to cutcii'cnmflancee at the moment nre-vented their removal l A young officer of the Greyswell known to the author, was ffiot t,v , p . y.officer whefc life he had ,1 ed^'^‘“ftine Frenc.man was to make h.s efcape. He did not^SeX&dtef “d “ 1™“’Vifit to the French hofpitala.ket long, to give fpao, for a cable ofTffift34Tlie whole inunenfe leugth of this ^Urcetrss oper,and the beds were arranged in four rows, from endt» end. Wc walked generally unnoticed by theirOccupiers, up and down the lanes between ; and e-qually difregarded, frequently ifept’over a bed, orpafsed between two, when going from one pafsage toanother. It was impoflible to imagine two alpeersof human lot ntore ftrikingly contraRed, yet moreforcibly aflbeiated, than the fpectacle which thefe un¬fortunate enthuliafts prefented now, and their confi¬dence and fury but yeflerday ; their IVihmiflive tran¬quillity in tlieir flannel gowns and caps in the hofpital,and their noife and euirafses in the field.Death was at work here, more manifcftly than wehad obreryed among the Englilh wounded. One manwas pointed out who had tofsed his amputated arm inthe air, with a fieble lit out of “ vivc 1’ Empcruer.”Another, at the moment of the preparations to takeoff his leg, declared that there was fomething heknew of that would cure him on the fpot, and favchis limb and the operator’s trouble. When asked toexplain this ftrange remark, he faid ‘-a fight of theEmperor!” The indispenfible amputation did notfive him, be died in the furgeon’s hands; and hislaft words, fteadfaftly looking on his own blood,were, that he would cheerfully fhed the lift drop inhis veins for the great Napoleon! A fingularly wild,and almoft poetic, fancy, was the form in which athird bore his teftimony; he was imdergomg, withgreat fleadinefs, the operation of the extraction of xball from his fide, and it happened to be the left; inthe moment of his greateft fullering, he exclaimed,“ an inch deeper, and you’ll find the Emperor,”FINIS.