THEHonest Debtor,OR,%THE VIRTUOUS MANStruggling with, rising superiorto, and overcomingMisfortune.“ Alas! I am a disgraced man in my own country,and I am labouring here to wipe away a stain I havebrought upon my name."“ One of the happiest days in my life was that onwhich I was able to remit to Paris the first hupdredlouis d’ors of my saving.’’“I leave you to imagine the surprise and gratitudeof Salvary, at seeing all the traces of his ruin done away,as it were by the stroke of a pen; and with eagernesshe came to return thanks 'o his benefactor.*’FALKIRK :PRINTS# AN# SOLD BY T. JOHNSTON.THEHONEST DEBTOR.An honest Marts the noblest Work of God.With Pleasure Heaven itself surveys,A brave man struggling with the storms offahTo overcome adversity and brave deal)itself, is the effort of a noble resolutionBut there is still a species of courage whiclI think less frequently to be met with in theworld, but not less admirable. I shall givnjian instance of it.‘ In a journey to Holland, I was recommended to a rich merchant of the name oOdelman $ a man as liberal in his houseas he was avaricious in his commerce. Iihis counting house, and at his table, I founia young Frenchman of a prepossessing appearance and uncommon modesty of deport1ment, He was known in Holland by nlother name than that of Oliver.‘ In vain Odelman, who was a manofplai |manners, treated him like a friend and almost as an equal; the young man, withcertain respectful dignity, always kept atproper distance: you would nave said, athat of a son ever attentive to the will chis father, who was serving for love.3I‘I endeavoured to learn what had indu¬ced him to live in Holland. He answered,‘it was misfortune,’ and in every thing thatrelated to himself, 1 thought I perceived thathe did not wish to come to an explanation.i In the mean time, we spent all timehe could spare together ; and with a com-pliasancethat my curiosity might sometimesfatigue, but never exhausted, he gave meinformation relative to whatever was inter¬esting in Holland.‘ You may be sure I began to conceive aparticular affection for him. This is an en¬tertaining young man; said I to Odelman,and l have the greatest reason to speak inhis favour. It was doubtless, you that re-commendedhim to shew me such attention.’—“ Not at all,” answered he ; but you area Frenchman, and he idolizes his country./ am very glad however, to profit by itsloss, for it has few more such to boast of.He is an essemblage of every estimablequality. Good sense, fidelity, indefatigableapplication, expertness in business, an ex¬treme quickness nisety of preception ; aminuteness of method which nothing can es¬cape ; and, above all an economy—Ah !he is the man, indeed that knows the valueof money.’‘ Ihe last article of his eulogium was notto my taste ; and, in his excuse I observed,that it was allowable in the fortunate to74be avaricious.’—Avaricious; he is not so,*replied the Dutchman ; he is not solicitousfor riches. Never, I am well assured, didhe desire the wealth of another, he is onlycareful of his own. But in the managementof it, he exhibits such an ingenious and re¬fined frugality, that the Dutch themselves Iare astQnished at it.’-But what mostsurprises Ime is, the secrecy with which he conceals,even from me, theusehemakesoflnsmoney.* j‘ Before my departure I became better |acquainted with this uncommon and virtu- Ious young man.‘ My dear countryman,’ said I, the day |I was taken my leave of* him, * I am |going back to. Parrs. Shall I be so un- ifortunate as to be of no service to you there ? ;I have given you the pleasure of obligingme as much and as often as you pleased ^ 1do not refuse me an opportunity of return¬ing the obligation ’—No sir,’ said he ‘youshall have it; and in exchange for the little !.service which you are pleased to over rate.I will come this evening, and request onefrom you, which is of the most materialconsequence to me. I must observe, that Iit is a secret that I am going to communi- ;cate to you ; but I can be under no appre¬hensions on that account. \ our name onlyis a sufficient guarantee.’ I promised to |1 eep it faithfully; and, that very evening,1 e called upon me with a casket full of goldin his hand.* Here,’ said >.e, ‘ are five hundred lou*d’ors, arising from three years savings, anda paper signed by my hand that will indi-eate the use to which I wish them to be put.It was signed Oliver Salvary. Hr w greatwas my surprise to find it was destined fornothing but objects of luxury ! A. thousandcrowns io ajeweiler ; a thousand to a cabi¬net-maker; a hundred iouis for milinery;as much for laces, and the rest to a perfum¬er.* I surprise you,’ said he ; ‘ Yet you donot see all. I have already paid, thank hea¬ven, three hundred louis for the like fool-fries : and I have much yet to pay before e-very thing will be discharged. Must I tellto you sir? Alas ! I am a disgraced man inmy own country, and I am labouringhere to wipe away a stain I have broughtupon my name. 7n the mean while, I maydie; and die insolvent. 7 wish to makeyou a witness of my good intentions, and theI efforts I am making to repair misfortunesand my shame. What 1 am going to relateto you may be considered as my testament,which 1 request you to receiv , that, in caseof my death, you may take the necessaryIpains to restore my character.' ‘You will'live long enough,’ said I; ‘you will have’'' Lime to efface the remembrance of the mis-1 ortunes of your youth. But, if, in orderto make you easy, you want nothing but ait faithful witness of your sentiments and con-6i'uct, I am better informed on that subjectthen you imagine, and you may with allconfidence lay open your heart to me.’‘ I began then,’ said he, smiling, ‘by con¬fession, that my misfortunes are entirelyow-ing to myself, and that my errors are with¬out excuse. My profession was one of thosethat required the strictest probity ; and thefirst law of that probity is, to dispose of no¬thing that is not our own. I made calcu¬lations ; but those calculations were errone¬ous. My imprudence was not the loss cri¬minal. But I will tell you how I was invol¬ved in it.‘A reputable family, of unsullied reput¬ation, the esteem of the public, transmittedfrom my ancestors to their children ; myyouth ; some success in which I had beenmuch favoured by circumstances ; all seem¬ed to promise that I should make a rapidfortune by my profession. This was thevery rock on which I split.‘ Monf. d’Amene, a man of fortune, andwho considered my prospects as infallible,ventured to build his daughter’s happinessupon these delusive hopes, He offered meher hand ; and as soon as we were acquain¬ted, we formed a mutual attachment,—Sheis no more ! Were she still living and Iwere too chose a wife, she alone shouldbe the object of my choice. Yes my dear¬est Adrienne, I would choose thee from a-mong a thousand. Others might have more7beauty; but who can ever equal thy worth,thy tenderness, thy charming temper, thygood sense and thy amiable candour ?** In this address, his eyes, raised to hea-ven, as if looking for her spirit, were suffu¬sed with tears. “ impute not,” he contin-! ued, “impute not to her any thing that Ir have done. The innocent cause of my mis-101 tune, she never even suspected it. Andin the midst of the illusions with which shei was surrounded, she was far from perceiving■j the abyss to which is was leading her overi a plain strewed with flowers. Enamoured ofI her before I married her, more enamoured; after possession, 7 though I could never do! enough to make her happy; and comparedI to my ardent love for her, her temid tender¬ness, and her sensibility, which were temper¬ed by modesty, had an appearance of coldness.To make myself beloved as much as I lovedher—Shall I declare it ?—I wanted to in¬toxicate her with happiness, good heavens/what passion ought not a man to indulge1 with distrust, if it be dangerous, to devote■ij himself too much to the desire of pleasing• j his wife.* An elegant house, expensive furniture,whatever fashion and taste could procure in( the article of d>ess, to flatter in young mindsthe propensities of self-love, by affordingnew splendour or new attractions to beautyall this inticipated my wife’s desires, andpoured in upon her, as it were, spontaneous-ly. A select society, formed by her owninclination, shewed her the most flatteringattentions, and nothing that could renderhome agreeable was ever wanting.‘ My wife was too young to consider itnecessary to regulate and reduce my ex-pences. Ah ! had she known how much Irisked to please her, with what resolutionwould she not have opposed it ? But as shebrought me a handsome fortune, it wasnatural for her to conclude, that I was alsoin affluent circumstances. She imagined,at least, that my situation in life allowed meto put my establishment upon a genteelfooting, she perceived nothing in it thatwas unsuitable to my profession ; and, onconsulting her female^friends, all this washighly proper, all this was no more than de¬cent. Alas ! I said so too, and Adriennealone, in her moaest and sweetly ingenuousmanner, asked me if I conceivedit necessaryto incur such expences to gender myself a-miable in her eyes, “ / cannot be sensible,”said she, “ to the pains you take to renderme happy ; but / should be so without allthat. You love me and that is enough toexcite the envy of these young women.What satisfaction can you find in increasingit, by wishing me to eclipse them ? Leavethem their advantages, which 1 shall notenvy. Let their frivolity of taste : let whimand vain superfluity be their delight. Loveand happiness shall be mine.”9‘ Her delicacy, though it gave.her newcharms, did not alter my conduct : and Ianswered, that it was on my own accountthat I complied with custom ; that what ap¬peared as luxury to her, was nothing but alittle more elegance than ordinary ; thatgood taste was never expensive, and. thatwhatever I might do, I should never trans¬gress the bounds of propriety. I deceivedher. I deceived myself; or, rather, I ban¬ished all reflection. I w&s sensible that Iwas living beyond my present income ; butin a short time the emoluments of my pro¬fession would make good the deficiency;and in the mean while, every one approvedof my affectionate care to make my wifehappy. Could I do less for her? Could Ieven do enough? This was the publicvoice. At least it was the language of ourfriends. My father-in-law looking with con¬cern upon tiiese anticipated expences, uponthis emulation ol'luxury, which ruins, saidhe, the greatest fortunes. He expressed hisdisapprobation or it with some degree ofseverity. I calmly answered, that this em¬ulation should, never lead me into anv in¬discretion. and he might safely depend uponmy prudence. I have since learnt what animpression this manner of respectfully eva¬ding his advice, made upon his mind, andwhat bitter resentment it produced.‘ The moment of my becoming a fatherdrew nigh ; but this moment, which promis-10ed lo he the happiest I had ever expei iencedproved to me* the most fatal. It deprivedme of both the mother and child. Thisstroke plunged me into abyss of sorrow.I will not tell you how heart-breaking itwas. None but those whose experience suchsorrows can imagine what they are.‘ I was still in the height of my Abaction,when my wife’s father sent his notary withthe information, accompanied with a fewwords of slight condolence, that the writingswere drawn up to transfer back into hishand the fortune* I had received from him.Indignant at this indecent precipitation, Ianswered that I was quite prepared ; andthe next day the fortune was returned. Butthe jewels that I had given his daughter,and the other articles of value for her ownparticular use, became also his propertyHe had a legal right to them. I represent¬ed the inhumanty of requiring me, aftereighteen months marriage, to submit to soisevere a law ; but he insisted upon his rightwith all the impatience of a greedy claimant.I submitted ; and this severe exaction madesome noise in the world. Then did the]envy my happiness had excited, hasten totpunish me for mv short-lived felicity, and,under the disguise of pity, took great careftto defulge my ruin, which it seemed to de-f* By the laws of France on the death of the Motheand issue, her fortune revet ts back to her family.11plore. My friends were less zealous to serve: than were my enemies to injure me, They■ agreed that I had been to much in haste; to live away. They were very right, but| they were so too late. It was at my enter-| tainments that they should have made suchobservations- But you sir. who know the• world, know with what indulgence spend¬thrifts are treated until the period of theirruin. Mine was now made public, and mycreditors being alarmed, came in crowds tomy house, 1 was determined not to deceive!j them, and making them acquainted with: my situation, I offered them all that I hadleft, and only required them to give mei time to discharge the rest. Same were ac-commodating-, but others alleging the weal-I thy circumstances of my father-in-law, ob-i served, that he was the person who out toi: have given me indulgence, and that ini! seizing the spoils of his daughter, it wasj, their property he had plundered. In a word,! I was reduced to the necessity of escapingfrom their pursuits by suicide, or of beingshut up in prison.** This night, sir, which I passed in thei agonies of shame and despair, with death onone hand, and ruin on the other, ought toserve as an eternal leeson and example. Anhonest and inoffensive man, whose onlycrime was his dependence upon slight hopes,1; this man, hitherto esteemed and honoured,in an easy and sure way to fortune, all on a' 12sudden branded with infany, condemnedeither to cease to live, or to'live in disgrace,in exile or in prison ; discountenanced byhis father-in-law, abonded by his friends,no longer daring to appear abroad, and de-sirious of finding some solitary and inacces¬sible retreat that could conceal him frompursuit. It was in the midst of these horri¬ble reflections that passed the longest ofnights. All ! the remembrance of it stillmakes me shudder ! and neither my headnor my heart have recovered the shockI felt at this dreadful reverse of fortune : atlast, this long conflict having overcome myspirits, my exhausted strength sunk into acalm still more dreadful. I considered thedepth of the abyss into which I had fallen jand I began to conceive the cool resolutionof putting gn end of my existance.‘ Let me weigh’ said I, ‘ my last deter¬mination, if I am to be dragged to prisonI must perish there disgraced, without re¬source and without hope. It is doubtless athousand times l etter to get rid of an insup¬portable life, and to throw myself upon themercy ofGon, who would perhaps pardon mfor not being able to survive misfortune]combined with dishonour. My pistols wercocked, they lay on the table, and as I fixedmy eyes upon them, nothing appeared tcjme at this moment more easy than to put aend to every thing But ah ! how manyyjlli&ns have done the same! How man13worthless minds have possessed the samedesperate courage! And what can washaway the blood in which I am going toimbrue my hands ! Will my infamy be theless inscribed upon my tomb, if indeed I amallowed a tomb ? and will my name, stigma¬tized by the laws, be buried with me ? Butwhat am I saying? Wretch that I am! I amthinking of^ie shame but who is to expiatethe guilt ? t want to steal out of the world ;but when I shall cease to exist, who willmake restitution to those I have injured ?Who will ask forgiveness for a young mad¬man, the sqanderer of wealth that was nothis own ? Ah ! let me die, if I can no longerhope to regain that esteem Which I had lost.But if is not possible, at my age, what labourand time to repair the eirors or my youth,and to obtain pardon for my misfortune ?Then reflectingupen the resources that wereleft me, if I had the fortitude to contendwith my ill fate, I fancied I saw at a distancemy honour emerging from behind the cloudthat had obscured it, I fancied I saw a plankplaced at my feet to save me from shipwreck,and that I beheld a freindly port at handready to receive me, I retired into Holland ;but before I set off, 1 wrote to my creditors,informing them that having given up all lhad left in the world, I was still going todevote my whole life to labour for tbeii be-nefiit; and entreated them to have patience.14* I landed at Amsterdam. On my arrival,my first care was to enquire who among thewealthy merchants of the city, was the manof the greatest character for honour and pro¬bity ; and all agreeing in naming Odelman,1 repaired to him,‘Sir,’ said I, ‘a stranger persecuted bymisfortunes flies to you for refuge, and to *ask you whether he must sink under itsweight, or whether by dint of resolution andlabour he may be able to overcome it ? Ihave one to patronize or be answerablefor me. I hope in time, however to be myown security; and in the manwhile, Ientreat you to employ a man that has beeneducated with care, is not destitute of know¬ledge and ef a willing disposition. Odel¬man after having listened to, and surveyedme with attention, asked who had lecom-mended me to him ? “ The public opinion,”said I. “ on my arrival I enquired for thewisest and best man among the citizens ofAmsterdam, and you were unanimouslynamed.”He appeared much struck with a certainexpression of spiritedness and frankness inmy language and countenance, which mis¬fortune imparts to resolute minds, and whichnature seems to have made the dignity ofthe unfortunate. He was discreet in hisquestions, and / was sincere, but reserved inmy answers, /n a word, without betrayingmyself, I said enough to remove his distrust,15and prepossessed with a sentiment of esteemin my favour he consented to put me to atrial, but without any fixed engagement.He soon perceived that there was not in hiscounting-house a man of more assiduity, normore emulious of gaining information.‘ Oliver,’ said he, (for that was the onlyname I had taken) ‘you have kept yourword. Go on, I see you will sift me j we areiformed for each other. There is no quarterof your first year’s salary, I hope, and 1foresee, that it will go on in a progressiveincrease,’‘ Ah! sir, I who had never in my lifeknow the value of money ; with what joydid I see myselfmasterof the hundred ducatsihe had presented me with ? With what caredid I lay up the greater part of this sum ?With what ardour did I devote myself tothat industry of which it was the fruits ?And with what impatience did I wait for theother three qurrters of my salary that wereto increase this treasure ?‘ One of the happiest days in my life wasthat on which I was able to remit to Paristhe first hundred louis d’ors of my savings.When the receipt came back, 1 kissed thepaper a hundred times, and bedewed itwith my teais. I laid it upon my heart,and felt it like a balm applied to my wounds.4 Three years together I procured the samegratification. This gratification is nowheightened ; for my perquisities being atig-16merited and joined to some gains, which 1have acquired by commerce, double the a»mount ol' my savings, 7f‘ this remittancehas been tardy, 1 beg sir you will notice,that the delay has been occasioned by thdeath of the only trusty correspondent I haat Paris, and henceforth, I hope you wilbe so good as to supply his place, Alas LI may yet labour fifteen years before i candischarge all, but I am only five and thirty.At I fifty shall be free ; the wound in myheart will be healed. A multitude of voiceswill proclaim my integrity; and I shall beable to return to my country with an un¬blushing countenance. Ah ! sir, how sweetand consolatory is the idea, that the esteemof my fellow citizens will be restored tgrace my old age, anil crown my greyhairs.‘ He had hardly finished speaking/ when!delighted at this exemplary probity, “ t embraced him, and assmed him, that I nevei)had met with a more excellent man tharhimself. This mark of my esteem affectecjhim deeply, and he told me, with tears iihis eyes, that he'should never forget the consolation that accompanied my farewell.”‘ When 1 arrived at Paris, I made hi:payments His creditors were desirous oknowing where he was, what he was doingand what were his resources. Without explaining myself in that respect, I impresseithem with the same good opinion of his in17tegrity as I entertained myself, and dismis¬sed them all well satisfied,* Being one day at dinner with MonsieurNervin, my notary, one of his guests, onhearing’ me speak of my journey into Hol¬land, asked me, with some degree of ill hu¬mour and contempt, whether I had neverhappened to meet with one Oliver Salvaryin that country. As it was easy to recog¬nize in his looks a sentiment of malevolence,I stood on my guard, and answered, “ thatmy tour into Holland having been a mereparty of pleasure, I had not had leisure to ac¬quire information respecting the French,that i might haveseen there, but that throughmy. connections, it v.muld be very possible-to get some account of the person he hadnamed,”—“ No,” said he “ it is not worthwhile. He has given me too much vexa¬tion already. He has possibly died of wantor shame, as it was but fit he should. Hewould have done much better still, if he had,died before he married my daughter, andbrought himself to ruin. After that,” con¬tinued he, “ depend upon the fine promiseswhich a young man makes you.—In eighteenmonths, fifty thousand' crowns in debt; and,to complete the whole exile, and disgrace !’“Ah ! sir,” said he to the notary, “ whenroll marry your daughter, he upon yourguard. An insolvent and disgraced son-in-aw is but a sorry piece of furniture.”18‘ Monsieur Nervin asked him how it hadhappened that so prudent a man as he hadnotforseen and prevented these misfbrtunes?,—“ I did forsee them” replied d’Amene,“and prevented them as far as I could ; forthe very day after my daughter’s death, Itook my measures, and thank heaven. Ieave had the consolation of recovering hepportion and personal property ; hut that isall I was able to save from the wreck, and Ileft nothing but the shattered remains forthe rest of the creditors.”‘ It was with great difficulty that I couldcontain myself; but perceiving after hewas gone, the impression he had made uponthe minds of the notary and his daughter,I could not refrain from vindicating the ho¬nourable absent man ; but without men¬tioning his retreat. “ You have been hear¬ing” said I, “ this unmerciful father-in-lawspeak of his son with the most cruel con¬tempt. Well every thing he has said abouthim is true; and is not less true, that thisunfortunate young man is innocence andprobity itself.” This exordium seemed verystrange to them, it rivetted their attention,and the father and daughter remaining silent,I related what you have heard.* Nervin is one of those uncommon cha¬racters, that are difficut to be comprehend¬ed. Never was there a cooler head or awarm heart. It was a valcano beneath aheap of snow, His daughter on /he con-. 19 " .trary, was a girl of a tender and placid dis¬position, equally partaking of the ardour ofher father’s soul, andof the sedateness of rea¬son. She is handsome. You have seen her ;but she is so little vain of her beauty, that| she hears it spoken of without blushing, orembarrassment, as she would the beauty ofanother. “ We may be proud,” said she,“ of what we have acquired ourselves ; and! modesty is necessary to conceal such pride,i or to keep it within bounds. But whereis the merit or the glory in having one’seyes or mouth made in such and such man¬ner ? And. why should we think ourselvesobliged to blush at the praise of what thecaprice of nature has conferred upon us,without any merit of our own ? This single: trait may give you an idea of the dispositionof Justina; which though more strongly cha¬racterized and determined than that of^4d.rienne, exhibited the same candour and thesame charms.‘ This estimable girl paid as much atten¬tion to my words as her father, and at eachtrait that marked the integrity of Salvary,his strong sensibilty. his firmness under mis¬fortune, 7 perceived them look at each other,and thrill with that sweet delight which vir¬tue ever excites in the breasts of all her vo¬taries. But the father became impreceptib-ly more thoughtful, and the daughter moreaffected.20‘ When I came to these woids in which Oli¬ver had addressed me : “ Ah ! sir, how sweetand consolatory is the idea that the esteemof my fellow citizens will be restored tc gracemy old age, and crown my grey harrs.’—Isaw Nervin lift up his head, his eyes all suf¬fused with tears : “ No, virtuous man, hee-xclaimed, in the effusion of his generosity,‘ you shall not wait the tedious decline of Ilife, in order to be free and honoured as Jyou deserve. “ Sir,” added he to me, “ you Iare in the right, there is not a nobler man |in the world. As to the common and strait-forward duties of life, any one may fulfilthem : but to preserve this resolution andprobity, while hanging ov^" the precipicesof misfortune and shame, without once los¬ing sight of them for a moment! this is rareindeed ! this is what I call possessing a well-tempered mind. He will commit no morefollies. I will be answerable for it- Hewill be kind,, but he will be prudent; Heknows too well what weakness and impru¬dence have cost him, & with d’Amene’sgood |,leave, that is the man I shall like for ^son j ,in-law.—And you daughter, what think |you of it 5’,—“ i, sir !” answered Justina, I‘ I confess that such would be the husbandI should choose.” “ You shall have him,”said her father : “ write to him to come toParis; tell him that a good match awaitshim here, and tell him nothing more.”21‘ I wrote; he answered, that situated asi he was he was condemned to celibacy andsolitude; that he would involve neither aiwife nor children in his misfortune; nor'would he set foot in his own country, untilthere should be no one there before whomihe should be ashamed to appear. Thi^ an¬swer proved a farther incitement to the im-i patience of the notary. “Ask him,” saidihe, “to give in a specific account of hisJ debts ; and to inform, that a person who in¬terests himself in his welfare will undertake!the care of adjusting every thing.”‘ Salvary consented to intrust me with thestate of his debts, but as to the accommod¬ation of them, he replied, he would hear ofmo such thing; that any reduction of his:creditors claims would be unjust; that* it(was his intention to discharge them fully,and to the last livre; and all that he requiredat their hands was time. “ Time, time,”8 says the notary, “ I have none to spare him.i1 My daughter will grow old before he pays(his debts. Leave this list of them with me.ii Every body will be satisfied,” Two daysi after he came to me. “ All is settled,” saidihe. Look, here are his bills, with re-! ceipts to them. Send them to him and givei him the choice of being no longer in debtto any one, by marrying my daughter, or of(having me for his sole creditor, if he refuses22to accept me for a father-in-law ; for thidoes not bind him to any thing.”‘ I leave you to imagine the surprise angratitude ot Salvary at seeing all the traceof his ruin done away, as it were by thstrose of a pen ; and with that eagerneshe came to return thanks to his benefactoHe was nevertheless, detained in Hollanlonger than he wished, and the impetuoiNervin began to complain, that this mawas tardy and very hard to be worked upoAt last he arrived at my house, not yet daing to persuade himself but that his hapness was only a dream. I introduced hisoon to his generous benefactor, with a miimpressed with two sentiments equally gratfill, deeply sensible of the father’s goodneand every day still more captivated with tlcharms of his daughter; finding in hall he had so much loved and so muchgretted in Adrienne, his mind was aswere ravished with gratitude and love.IIwas no longer able, he said to deside whicjwas the more inestimable gift of heaven ;friend like Nervin, or a wife like Justine.‘ One regret, however that he could nconceal, still hung about his mind. “ Pardcme,” said he one day, when Nervinproached him for having- rather put his ptience to the test: “ pardon me sir, I wimpatient to throw myself at your feet, bbeside the accounts I had to make up I ha jhad in leaving Holland, more than one c23flict to undergo. The worthy Odelman,my refuge, my first benefactor, had depen¬ded upon me for the ease and comfort ofhis old age. He is a widower; has nochildren ; and without declaring it, he hadalready adopted me in his heart. W hen wewere obliged to part *, when in revealingto him my past misfortunes, I told him bywhat a prodigy of goodness I had been re¬stored to honour, he bitterly complained ofmy reverse, and asked <tie if I thought I hada better friend in the world than Odelman.He pressed me to consent to his acquitingthe obligation 1 owed you. He requestedI it with tears, and quickly began to feel my-! self no longer able to resist his entreaties,I But when he read the letter in which Mr.1 Walet had made the eulogium of the amia-I ble Justina, and in which he had given a• still more enchanting portrait of her mind; than of her person—^ah! said that good; man to me, “ I have no daughter to offeri you : and if this picture be a faithful one itj will be a difficult matter to find her equal.II will detain you no longer. Go, be happy■ —think of me, and do not cease to love me.’‘ Nervin, as he listened to this narrative,* was wrapt in thoughtful attention. “ No,”« said he, sudd enly breaking silence, ‘ 1 willi not desire you to be ungratful, nor will I4 suffer a Dutchman to boast that he is more| generous than i. You have no professionr here, and you are uot formed to lead an in*fit/*tr24dolent life It would be a v’ery great satis¬faction for me, as you must ima^ibe, to havemy children about me ; but let that blessingbe reserved for my dear old age ; and as mybusiness here affords me sufficient occupa-ltion to keep away enmity, writetothe worthyiOdelman, and tell him, that I gave you upjto him together with m^ daughter, for halta score years ; after which you will return Jhope with a little polony of children ; and|you and T, in the mean while, shall haverbeen labouring for their welfare.”‘ The Dutchman, overjoyed, returned foilanswer, that his house, his arms, his heart.'were all open to receive the new-marriec!pair. He expects them; they are going U,set off, and Oliver will henceforth be in part}nership with him, This is an instance of r1species of courage that many unfortunatjpeople are in want of, that of never forfeiting their own esteem, and that of never detpairing so long as they are concious of theib©wo integrity.