THEHIS TOR yOF THECATHEDRAL,ORChurchOFl| fr0™ the time of its Foundation, in the"iear 1136, till the present day, beinga Period of 683 Years.IALSO,An Account of the Battle ofGi aspow,Fought in tiie year 1272, betwixt'theEnglish General Percy, and the ValiantSoots Hero, Sir William Wallacr,and tbe Battles of Falhri and Raslini TiJkirk, Trin’edfor the Boolceelias,1825THEHISTORYor THEHIGH CHUR0FI OF GLASGOWM HIFS Edifice, the mo*t complete piece 8AL. Gothic architecture in the kingdom w«'(0,,tried in the vetr 11 SO, by John Achaiu)!IJishop of Glasgow during the reign of DuvidfldEn whose presence it was consecrated j|j-f.g. yeor VI30. In the time of Joceline whlcr.ntinucd to carry on the building, it appealto have been cledicated as we are informejAvjfn an 'nscription upon a stone, immediate'!arrive the door ot the Choir in the year 1 :r)ltnough ut that time the buikling was not fil s;,►slvan.ced.i work of such magnitude, that Wwealth of the See of Glasgow was unable||acoou pfi.h it, and therefore they had recmi"t~ ..en^rol contribution throughout Scotlai,1w!,;ch was accordingly levied and applied,this iwrnose. This we learn from the 4tfg/non (Z rhe ProVincal Councils of the CMof Sootlofid. held at Perth in V?43 and 12(,C the felrowing tenor : —Mn-e«>.er, ftJtri. t'v enact that thtf business of the buiWrtf nhe Church of Glasgow-, be, upon all Leti 3days and festivles, faithfully and ddegerit-yexplained in all Churches, after saving of thu -Male, fro-n the begin!ng of Lent to the 8tnday after Esther; and that the ladulgencesgranted to those assisting at the building,which we have ordered to be written in everyChurch may he distinctly explained in thevulgar language to dre parishioners ; and that 'their alms the effect of persons dying intes-tated and pious legacies m<y he faithfuliycollected, according to usage hitherto ap¬proved and delivered to the Deacons of placesin the nearest Chapter without any deductionand that during the said space of ti:pe noSermon for any of her business, be admittedin the parochial Churches.”Altho’ the name of the .Architect by whomthe Church was designed does not now appearfrom any inscription about the hui! iing, yet,from one upon the^abbey Church of Mklhosin 1146 We are informed with regard to thisparticular, in the foHowing uncouth rhyme;Jonv Mitsdo sum time callit was I,And born in Parystf certainly.And had in keeping alL mason week,() Sanctuary the llye KirkOf Glasgow Metros and Pa.sl.ai/,Of Niddisdayl and of Galway.Pray to God and Virgin Mary,And sweet St. John keep thisholy Kirk J'rae sfcaith.The Cathedral stands at the upper nr northend of the High Street upon the summit ofa riti,e which declines to the iMolendinar or™Gal'owgate Burn. Its form like most otherledifices of the kind erected during the reign,of superstiticn in this 'country*, is that ofa Cross whose greate.-t length lies East and*West, and consequently the transverse parwlNorth and South. From the middle c( the!building springs the great Tower, which lor*jat least Sj feet above the roof, is of a square!form, and terminates in .1 battlement andibollustrade. Within this rises an ochAgular;Squire to a great height, that is again (rna-Jnreuted bv tn'o smaller ballcstrades at cqual|distances from each other and the tep of the|Squire, i'he Octagon betwixt these is beauli-Jfied with several Gothic windows and foursmell pyramidal Spires which rise from wit'-.isthe first battlement at the bottom of tha$|Octagon. Upon the West end of the Cathedral rises another square Tower, till it is upon!a level with t'. battlement of the great Steeple'here it terminates in a pyramid* leaden roofladorned with a fane. Is this Steeple is p.aeedthe Clock and a very, large Bed no less than t12 feet 1 inch in circumference which actas the ccrfcw to the inhabitants at the hae.mof ten each night; and from its grave andijdeeply sonorous note, is cxcellantly adaptsto the purpose.In the Winter of 1789, this Bell havingbeen accidently cracken by some person*who had got fadmisaion to the Steeple it wMj5takers orsd sent to Lendoa,- whsie mthe fol!or,irg, year it wus retoOT-Sid liy'oneU* ars. On tht out«id» fls the foifowingJnscription: *In the year#f Grace,159I-.MARCUS KKOX,A Merchant in Gla?gonrZealous for the Interert of the re for intiReligion,Causud me to be fabricated in Holiankl,For the bse of his fcilcv/ Co'zc.ns of (ihi-govr,And placed me tvith SolemnityIn die Tower of their Cathedral,My functionWas announced by the impress on mv bosomComo-, ihet ye may learn holy doctrine*AndI was taught to proclaim the hours ofunheeded time.19.5 ears had I sounded these awful warnings,When I was brokenBy the hands 6f inconsiderate & unskilful, men.In the year 1790I was cast into the furnace,Resounded at London,j And returned to my sacred vocation,Reader,Thou also shall know a resurrection,• May it be unto eternal life.Twtr.as Mearz, Jeck? Lander., ] 79Q.T+om <*8st to .‘He is ex.ternally divided, on in.:h 5r i^fo ror’p rt-nertts hv bHttrrd'ts ..f > n al '4»*>npf'*s:orsS. hr*tween which are r>)nce<.i tifdhic v.'indo'vs ofo'vt'ral diftcrent tnt’rrrs. IJ 's successionof windows is isiteminfed in the middle ofthe building by the imn.cver.se section < fthe fross as well ns by two very largewindows on opposite <d*e of tbe ('alhedral,each {0 teet high and L'2 feet wide at the basewhich are dweedy under the great, tower,in the centre of the church. Above tMsfirst rrnpe of winoows the vvll t< rniinatoHin s hattJemcTit v,-!dn v,Jti<h sprinrs tfrelowest roof, till it meets the second or wrerwaUj vthich rises from tierce tor a numberof. feet; and., in like manner wdh the four,or lower wall, is divided into compartmentsItv small square pre.pscti«*ns. h-. twe-. n each eTwhich are placed three narrow Goilnc win¬dows, directly chore each of these in thetiraf ftorv; it then teimipatfS in the some-maurtor with die lover nail, eped with aleaden roof.OviV" to the decf the rrrom d uponwhich the Gathcdraleive of height appearsis placed, a great difFer-n favour of the Eastside, v Imre the ground is lowest, insomuch,that although on die West of the Church,the bottom of the first large of windows arewiddn 11 few feet of the ground ret by beingcarried horizontal w hen the succession arrivesat the other erd, they are very comuWablytit voted, and betwixt them, ami the ground.'7;!ower rier of small wsaJows f xtei d fiottt; East of tie Cathedral to the traosyene:ticn, where they terminate: These g’rje.jilt to what is called the Barony Church*•• : ' ^ ■ ■ ■fiFrom the South west corner of the cathed-il tl.e Consistorial-Aouse project, adornedi each side with abutments similar to thosei ( ween the windows in the Church-  M this house the Bishops Court were form-ly held frr taking cogn zance of ecclessasti*ilj disputes, within a certain district cilitd t^.eInunksarlet*iThe principal,* entry into the Cathedrals irom the West betwixt the Consolorial-idree and the Tower which both protectconsiderable way from the gable of theurch. This gate, which is very Ergei magnificiant is now shut up and the com-n entries are by the south leading dircct’ySo the Cathedral which s divided into theiter Church, Choir, Inner High and Baronylurches.i|fFhe most Westerly of these divisions inT Outer-Church, formerly a part of the1 o:r, and from which it is now seperated byi tone pertition. Here two rows of Gothic!|umns, of great height and thickness, runra West to East, paralhil to the vraUs fromlich they are distant sc vend feet. The**fars are connected with each other by ar'cbesl:ich spring from the capitals, and at* the tr piDte in a common centre.Vpen those arches are built the greet inaertroils forniciiy mentioned which co.Mract thebreadth of the building in the upper part asBiuch as their supporters are tiisuint from thecuter wall. Between each piller is placed,t'nugh the whole range Gothic windows,which eliuminate th.e area of the Church ontie ground floor. Another ricr of srralhrwindows placed along the upp>r wall, enlightenthe vaccnt space.In the Choir the grandeur of the architecttore manefesis itself tnore strikingly than inthe division we have last left Li this placethe same range cf piiiais and windows arecontinued which'were before described The four inost Easterly of these coluuinsr,tuppert a great Tcvrtr or Steeple in the icthtre cf "the Churchweight they bear, areeach being 29 feet in cifcdmferance.the two, cn each side, are the large oppositewindows, which appear, v-hen viewed frontand, according to theproportionally strong,’Betweenthe outside in the centre ofThe front window or thatis divided longitudinallythe Church-towards the Souili,• four pillars, orbars, which are crossed in the middle thereby,fora.ing twelve parallel window*. Over thereis a large circular ore ten fe .t in diameter,with two smaller windows to iill up thevacuity which a circle inscribed in a Gothicarch r.ecessr.rly occasions. The windowthe North is perfectly similar except thathas five bars which run from top to bettorr,wubuut being crossed. Between tiej t; ii^iVw to Iit'ntom.,».great9i pillars also fronG the floor of the Choir a flight! of steps on each side desend into the large1 burying vault or Borony Church. And im-i mediately above, at the east end four or fivesteps lead to the na\ e or main body ofi the Catlktdral or Inner high Church.! In this place as in the Choir, two range; of columns run parallel to the walls and sup¬port in like manner, though by a double tierof arches, the upper row of windows. The.4: pillars here are consequently not sc loftyl| as in the last jnsntianed place but are evi-! dently of finer workmanship, and have theirA capital richly adorned with flrwers and fruit.• i From these capitals spring the arches, which,together with those arising from the corre-r spending columns on the walls, intersect eachi other at the key stone, which is in every in*1 stance finely carved. ♦In this manner, alongst the Church) a gil-<i lery on both sides is formed with an archedfoo*", throu h which the lisfht strikes from.1 the windows into the holy of the Church.—1 /hove this range of columns is another suc-I cession, which support the highest tier cf-lid windows which enlighten the upper part of-1 the Cathedral. From the top ct the innerit walls, immediately above these windows, an*lidl arched roof springs to a vast height finelyi ornamented. On the East, or in the gable oftistllthe Church,- is a great window divided by!; parallel bars, in the form of columns; and onH the West is the situation of the Organ L ife10ornamented v.Uh a great variety of figures, nowmuch defaced.Receding from the bod> of the Church onihe East and entering immediately below thegreat windows it- the space formerly occupiedby the Alter—the roof here is supported byf ve pillars, over which was a terrace walk.On the Korth^ side the Alter, is the Vestrythe roof arched and supported by one pillarin the centre of the house: arched pillarsf oni every angle terminate in the grand pillar,which is 1 S’ feet high. ♦ rIn this Church upon the north is the SeatEppomttd for his Majesty directly oppositeto the pulpit and projecting about three feetfrom the main body of the loft. Upon thefront of the seat it tre royal arms, on one sidee ‘Thistle, fi d on the other a Rose, bothcyotvncd and cut in cedar. Pillars of theCo riot! ian Order arise from the level of theleft end support the Canopy, ornamented with,!carvitvr.'The'arc'Church, which was former':u-td ;ts a hurving Vault, is situated Immedi¬ately under" the r ave or Inner High Churto. the Fast of the Cross. The Pillars herejin like matltHT with these in the other divibiens of the Catjredial run parallel to the wahjti ey ar? exceetlu gly strong and massive, an>p|ft cm their pojith w; ai d the smallness ofwindews,^ which* are ro more than narro'lfc-‘,rturvs, tlu area is rendered tlaik ar!; gloomy, which combined with the grave andsolemn air peculiar t . the Gothic architecture,cannot rail to cast a temporary damp upon; the moot volitale spirit.| The principal entries to this Church, asi we have already remarked, were situate ftI betwixt the great pillars in the Choir whichi support the m.urile tower: these are now. shut up and the passages lie in the North addSouth walls. To the Cast of this place. ar»I immediately below tne Alter, is situatedPI the pldce of interment for the Heritors ofI the Barony Tarish: and where is stili shewnthe monument of St. Mungo, or Kentigi'rn,.i! as well as the Reservoir wherein the Priestsformerly kept ttieir holy water.—A sell moredismal gloom here prevails! the wailt< areblack and hung round with shreds of Jv- -cheons. These shauowy embiims tri humangrandeur, while on every side io ‘‘.Nxuiisand coffins, tpi.ht cs and worms i lie BaronyChurch in file Cathedral, being fc mu verynaiup and inconvenient, it was shut up sometune since and a handsome Church erected inits stead, a little to the South west of i.s oldsituation.$ , . :In the North CjCoS of the Cathedral wasthe Chapter-house which had a connnum-cation witn the Nave by .1 vaulted entry.Ihe South Cross, immediately opposite, hasnever been completed, it is now used asa burying place for me Clergy of the City:aim i» tecivoiieu a vary tne piece or atebi-12trotufe, enl superior to any other part ofthe building. The roof, which is arched,is supported by a middle range *f p i'ars,runzung North and South hiring their capi¬tal. very highly ornamented with the figures«f trait, flowers <?.re. Corresponding to theseare columns adjoining to the walls, which,as they rise spring into semi-arches and areerery where met at acute angels by theirpppasites. ornamented with carvings at thecrossing and closing of the lines,—The out¬side, like the main body of the Ca • edral,is a&o adorned *Uh abutments and windows,over which figures of diifereat animals are cut,in stone, and above the aoof, which rises toa great height from the ground, is now* small garden, ornamented with ilbwer-potssnd shrubbery, the life rent property of theMagistrate to *rhos« care the disposing ofthe burying ground in the Church-yard iscommitted. Th» ^South Cross is of a-muchmore recent than tire other parts ofthe Cathedral, having boon founded and builtto its present height "by Bishop Dlacader, aboutthe vear 1500. iT.jo Cathedral it enlightened with 157V/iniows including the old Barony C a arch ; ■Is supported with Vi7 Phbrs, h%li and low;aid is in circuatferince .roan l the walls,without fifiosriftg the line of measure ofth'e'ld.-3 ;ty.5 ells or 97.5 feet. Its length,' within therviiLi is 231 feet, breadth 6a feet.The height of the Choir fro n the floor totie ioof, \s V) feet: Cut of the Nave, «r13Innfr Hieh Cl ut ch fi\e feet Icbp ; the roof« f the IWny Church ] 8 feet. ’J he altitudec-f the great Tower or middle Steeple 22Si1 feet from the floor cf the Choir, which i«•' 100 feet higher than the level cf the Clyde: Rt the Old I-ridge- of Glasgow.jj This ftat;?ly Edifice was preserved frontiji destruction hy the Townsmen, r>t the Ilefor-ijljmaticR, who though zealous reformers Jjg-j!i ter.cd to the judich us remonstrance of theirI chief Magistrate— “ I am not pulling dow nilthe High Ciiurch" said the Jrovost, “but|ne.t till we have first built a netr cue.Around the Cathedral is situated a ComeMery tailed the H:gh Church Yard inclosed|lwith vail )»g*irst which are built manyI Sepulcher Monuments. For many ages this'jSpr.t ha? fontiriwtei to he the principal buryingpiound of the^ City, and at present upwardsot 7.50 are int rred upon an. xv&rttge annually.Of lute a nca piece c! ground, Mr,mediatelyndjoii'.ing the < t.ariji Yard upon the North,i^as neen tni i n in for the purpose of making£s eddition ro the CcmetryV*° are Inform.;d by “pottiswood, end Jtis ■ WOw- pretty g-uer.dly' allowed that a lltlig.pjovs fcsVibiishment was founded at Glasgowas early as the yc >r 590 of which a penencf Lu: name of Sc Mungo or Kent igern,famous for l»is sanctity, »:*s appointed .Sc per-incendant or Uis!top.‘ After his death whichhappened in the beginning of tied rear 60t,uhe was succedtd by Baldrede, furn»er]y hiswiscipie who Kinongst other act of piety,founded a religious house at Inchinnin; butas to tiie tin e of this Prelate's death, or eventhe nauies of his successors down to the year1115 we have no account that cau be reliedupon. Indeed for this io»g space of nearly50Q years it appears that the possessions ofthe See of Glasgow were lent amongst theseveral petty nations who at that ♦time, bytheir continue! contentions deluged Scotlandwild blood: and from hence it is probable,that during that period, no regular Ecclesias¬tical institution was established within the jDiocese.At the ascer.oion of David I. to the throneof Scotland, in 1124 he not only appliedhimself to tiie reforming of the many abuses ^that subsisted in his hingdom nut also of new 1endowed the See of Glasgow with a veryample rcTtivue, and appointed J aim Anhui nsto the-Bishopric, a rcmi oil gr-^t le>ru.i.g, jand who bad formerly Scrveu bun in t-.e iquality of Prectp ttoi’.To this Prelate the City Gius-gO v oweshe Kiandutiou of her stately (diiia-’dral, which 1he consecrate! in presence of his iiiustreous jPotfon, in the sum imr of tile year lidoThe King, at that time in addition to Ms.former grants, and in Gstunony of Ids tsteentlin which he held this Church bestowed uponhtthe lands of Pa-rick on the banks of tut K.tdir, <a river that runs int o B.c C i - ile, gboci t wmile's, below the (uiy . f,15The Cathedral of Glasgow did not escapeiihe general rage at the Reformation, wheniithe people having^cast off the yoke cf Rome,( insulted and despised their former . spiritualaides and wrecked their fury against everyhhurch and monument cf their ancient fai'/L.I In the year 1573,it was not only robbed ofiwhat was valuab.e within but even st:'ppi>of its leaden roof. The Magistrates at tiffs.time, (to their honour,) contributed towardsjlrepairing of the Church, £c100 Scots; but)i under pfotellation that in so doing no pre-jjj cedent was to be inferred as the upholdingI of the Church belonged to the person . in| possession of the See.In 1579, when th& popular rage waj scnc-| tioned by an act cf the LegilUtu:» thehMagistratcs of Glasgow granted warrant forthe final destruction of the High Church, andin the course of a few days it v. ould probablyhave been levelled with the dust, Lad notthe Incorporations cf the city, as tv ferementioned exerted themselves in its favor,ana ; t the risk of their lives preserved itfrom destruction; for no sooner v,ere theworkmen, to the amount cf several hundreds,called together for this purpose, than tireCrafts assembled, and threatned with deaththe first that should begin the demolation;-—To them therefore, are we indebted for thepreservation of this venerable srructyre, cowthe most perfect of the kind in the kingdom.Though we have endeavoured in tire fore¬going description to be as dear and explicateas possible, with a view cf conveying a p.ronep16of this ancient Edifice, yet are eensi-ble that after ail, no notion can be formed,from that description any thing adequate to whatit merits, as it is one of those objects which tobe fully understood must be seen.From the elevated situation of the Cathed¬ral its steeples i ^.imand a most extensiveprospect well worthy of attention either tothe stranger or citizon from its almost un-rivallcd variety- Tv) the East, the wholevale of Clyde rich in towns, in seats and inptlacos, presents itself to view. In thisdirection for a considerable way, long lawnsintermixt with- trbes and villas, gratify the eye.Ueyond appear the lofty towers of Both-wall, and princely scat of the Hamiltons ;ssnd, f ather on, as tea banks begin to growmore steep, a long succession of splendid housestowering Com among t the woods, tingedwith azure the farrhci they recode captivaterite atrentian 6'ttli mgre remote appearsthe County Town,' cre - .eed as it were withthe lofty mountain of Tint-v which fills uptr.m bvh ground pf this delightful scene. If yAu turn to the West the populous munu-f .’eturing roan of Paisley and tire Castle ofM.-arris and Crickstone, r.-)»ed lor the resi¬dence of the unCvriunate Queen Mary Stewartand the Noble fortress of Dumbarton, perched,unon. a rock, appear fii'l in view; the lullsof Reofrea shjre and the ?• s^-v-ca-pt inountoinsof \rgule, still fvrthor of. terminate theprospect.. To the North, the Caujpsie hills,at the distance of teo, and ia the oppositelUca.on tltose of C itlikm, d.aU it tire ur.lea,V _ 'i (tiose fin unrivallttl lanrlsrsrjve.About the j-ear 15-<, ’«nJ wh:!.»I In unbar held pcf session of the See. the C&+;j of Glasgow wss witness to one of these sheefc-t iug executions on account of religion *biei«t at that tisae disgraced the countrv. Tw*persons here fell victims of the pt r.-feur: ■, %( the prlc .vs Viz i J. Ruseedl a Grey f-'m?;t) teci;»ingly more ei'Jighiened titan h> breumru,|| line John Kennedy, ftom the- Coripty al Ayr,| scarcely exceeding 13 years of age. Aiv eI» TOvVk trial, they were found guilty of beingcneutie.< to toe Churcli, ami cu-hvcred iv<rto the secular power, to »e? the drfsiti.isentence vf f ie flan>t-« put in txecii'.icn ! >—When near the stake, Kusscil a man of »>a-cortoccon fevtitude, stiuressed his tV'ilpw-suiTerer bidding bim net to fear; for thouehthe pain they v/tre about to suffer was acuteyet it was of short duration, *nd left ti eway to fcverlafetino happiness. Theyat the Mast end of the Cathedral Church, blitfortuajiely were the only persona sacrificedLt that, time here through the humini:v «,fArchbisllr;p Dunbar who was were? to theirexecution but was at tart forced to S^t.iesce,being himself threateatd by the other J,c< r*n )>o sat cn the trial.18ASHORT ACCOUNTPF THE4 BATTLE OF GLASGOW.\EOU T the. year I'27^ Edward fir.-tr-f tsnglahd had got possession of the chiefTowns, Castles and Fortresses in- Scot! tnd:yet notwithstanding he had hy no means«nhducd the spirit of the people; and althougha great part of the Nobles submitted igno-miniously to a foreign yoke, a chosen fewheaded hy the brave Sir iViUinm Unllacr,whose name must nvor remain clear to everyS' otchman, stood i’orth in behalf of them in¬jured Country, and by continually harassing-the English, -rendered their possession ofKc^tland equally hazardous and disagreeble.In a pitched battle, fought near the townof Bigger, between these parties, the forcesnf the English being defeated, a truce wasrgreed to for ore .year, and signed ;n theChurch of RuihergVn. This, however, withjEnglish. y:'s r.tb'ir a matter .ff urcPfsityft choice;, as they found tiicir forces broken| disconcerted through their iil successtiie last en<rasjrmfinb And indeed, totardlcss was E.iv.ard of the treaty. that inI following month of April long beforere had expired it was determined, introuncil held by liim >1 Carlisle to erppY.yijachcrv to order to tfr- Uift'e that purprselicb he found it so difficult to accomplish1 the valour of his ante-.I With this view it w ;s, resolved to call!Court of Justice, consist5tg of the Harm s$ho onnos'd his interest in Scotland, in twojmerate * places, Viz: Ayr and Glasgow inIhifr tbit, when so converted he mightJore easily accomphslt their destruction. Iccordtngly the English force was divided!"ne party was dot ■ ned for A', r whi’e thethcr tmder Percy of Northumberlarfd,:rect< d their course towards Glasgow.On the day appointed for holding the Courtt» \yr. a great nnmbei fell a sacrifice to th^s•tr •tagim, though Wallace who was lurkingIn the neighbourhood with his forces, amplyrepaid them for their treacherous cruelty;but in such a manner as con id only be just;fiedbv the nature of the Attack. He next bentld<s n»».r< h w ith three hundred ce.velfy, to¬wards (flasgow, with a vit’w of defeating thedesign entertained by the enemy at that peace.Having ar. lvv d there at rune o’clock in theSTJornirg, he drew up h;s men r.t the North*nd rf tie Old Bridge,' &r,<l after reeenuittnrg ti e situution and rutnber? e>i the F«he prepared lor an cssauk, by diridi;b>s force into two columns ; tl'.e t-re, und!the command r.F Boswell Baird of Auchinlecand Adam Wallace, his uncle, he directedf -rm a corpse of reserve, ^liile he with tlmoi body, utached the eneti*y in front.—I' hen so erpseed, Auc’oirJfck’s party we:erdtred to march by St. oTuncos lane, cBufht P arcs, fovvards the South-east quarlcljcf the Dn gate, near to which the Englisljto the mount of a thousand men were place-ann'tiius fa'-I upon the eue-my on the fiark.»The action having accordingly commenced'with great brat'ery on both sides, the kingi.’gh, from the superiority of their numberlseemed for some time to have the better <> jthe tk:\ —However the column which wartunder A^chinleck, to the amount of I40,|having arrived by marching trp Uie^DrygateJthey uncxiK-ctediy attacked the enemy iai|■fi oik, and thus turned the scale, of victory’llnv favour of the Seo’e ; who, upon the flighCrcf the English pursued them artel Bishop Beck„jito the Castle of Boihvreii, nine miles east»f the City, where they obtained si cker®nd Wallace and Ids army, returned to Glas¬gow, after having kilted in this engagement,Percy, the English General, and seven him- 'died cf his men—if we can credit the occounts, ’handed down to us ry the beettish hislcriass•f that tiaic.21Edwarii grieved at this fortunate successof Wallace, and understanding that he tra*i highly envied by the Earl of March, thei Cummings the greatest surname then ini Scotland, and divers ancient Noblemen oypt ‘whose honour Wallaces renown drew thei veil, .be siirred up Kobcrt Bruce elder, andl his factisn persuaded them that Wallacei was Brnce’s only competitor for the Crownij Having by tins means, made a strerg partyri for himself; the next spring he came with an:u army of 40 800 men Scots and English t®| Faikirk, eleven miles fr»m Stirling. The| Scots army was very great, being 30 0001 strong if they had been all of one mind;I But John Camming Lord of Cumbernauld,| who had an eye to the Crown, persuadedJ Lord John Stewart rf Bute, being tutcrI and grandfatlier. bj' the mother to LordJames Stewart of Renfrew to contend withWallace for the leading of the van guard,alledging that the same belonged to Lordj Stewart's of Renfrew by most ancient privilege.Wallace refusing this, they parted one fror*another, 10,000 only remaining with Wallace.Camming with 3 000 of his followers, aftera small show of resistance, treacherously fled,,leaving the valient Stewart inclosed by tw«battalions of the English, by whom, after hehad fought valiently for » long time, he wr.<j cut eff with all his followers. Wallace withit his party defended themselves valiantly untdf: they were safely retired beyond the river3 Carron, losing besides others, \he most soblcv John Graham, the roost valient worthynt Scotland next to Wallace. Bruce who!Edward had brought with all his friendlinto the field Upon pretence to assist him |recover his right from the usurper perceiin:; Wallace on the other side of the Carroiidedred to speak with him. After Bruce htupbraided him, as foolishly usurping t!1Jvingdoitt of Scotland against so powerf*!a faction at home assisted by so mighty a Kitiabroad, I answered Wallace ‘ I never inteto reign in Scotland; but finding my naticountry abandoned by you ami Balbl wtihave right to the Crown have set myselfdefend my friends and neighbours from tlunjust tyrrany and superstition qf the Kirof England who setteth you forth most u.naturally to tear the bowels of your mothwith your own hands.” After d’vers speechto this purpose, Bruce perceiving the -frtuufiand tyrannous dealing of Edward return■ to the host.The next morning Wallace understand^that the English army was but weakly etrenched and in great security amissing wjhis own army such as had escaped set ug;!them in the dawning before they could garrayed, and killed many, so that the Engli|King returned at that time without any furtHexplo:.Bruce remembering what he heard froWallace, desired Edward according toformer prtfume to pot. him in possessionso much of the Kingdom of Scotland as tSi vns itn-jf'P hfs power: To'-wiiich he msveredif in the Frenr h tong-ie, “ Have we no raore adoI “ but conquer kingdoms for you ?”By. this speech Lor i Brace conceived so greatgrief and ansrer that v ithin few days he died,j1 'without seeing his eldest son Robert afterwardsKing ho being kept in (’alias Castle, as hostage| for his i'athers obedience: bAfter this unhappy battle, Wallace striv-II ing to recover such Castles as Edward hadI taken, foupd such oppos*on and backwardnessbv envious emolations^that he returned to St.Jobnstouu, and in the Assembly of the Sta'esresigned his charge of warden ; and with eight¬een men passed again into France, according toa promise he had given at his return therefrom.This fell out at the end of the year 1300.The oppose faction having gained their. desire choxe John Curnming Governor^ therather because Edward had promised to assisthim to the Crown of Scotland; but he foundhim as great an enemy as he had been to Wallacefor after seven months, Bruce obtained by themeans of the French King, Edward sent SirRalph Godfrey, with a great army t0 subdueme Scots and to put ah end to the war which hei \nectcd would be easy, Wallace being now out• of the wav.Camming joiniog with Lord Simon Fraser,'making eight or nine thousand of an army,came to resist the English, who having wastedthe country as far as llosland, about five miles ifrom Edinburgh, not expecting any resistancedivided themselves into three parties thatthey might spread desolation farther intothe country. The Soots taking, the advantage-of this circumstance set upon the first division,and easily discomfited them; the second also,albeit stronger, lay the joining cf those whofled, was after a confiight put to the rout.The third division coming up strongly re¬pulsed the Seats, they being much fatiguedand weakened in the too former encounters,and having to withstand a fresh army of |greater number than either of the two formerHereupon they were'forced to kill all theirprisoners, lest they •‘should assist the enemy,and with their weapons to arm the baggage jmen: then engaging \r th the greatest intre¬pidity, after a long and desperate bloodyconflict, they put the enemy to flight ! Thisengagement was fought March 4th. 1301.