SOSOG8 NEW MINSTRELA COLLECTIOIf OrPOPULAR SOt\GS,^tlONAL L/^.OF SCOTLANDGLASGOWMINTED FOB THE BOOKSELLEB8.* 'Vir,;>- ‘^4• ?C?f‘4i '.'iA' SHTi;iirao worTC S.i 'oo ,t^r)/,Oo 51A.!!JM(n■: ■©ii3C:OCivOooo"Go©i?1-'' ■ . 'V/002AJ-Dsht »<•'* * - 'v: - iiSONG S.ALICE GRAY.She’s all my fancy painted her,She’s lovely, she’s divine;But her heart it is another’s,She never can be mine.Yet loved I as man never loved,A love without decayOh ! my heart—my heart is breakingFor the love of Alice Gray.Her dark brown hair is braided o’erA brow of spotless white ;Her soft blue eye now languishes—Now flashes with delight;The hair is braided not for me,The eye is turned away;Yet my heart—my heart is breakingFor the love of Alice Gray.I’ve sunk beneath the summer’s sun,And trembled in the blast;But my pilgrimage is nearly done,The weary conflict’s past.And when the green sod wraps my grave,May pity haply say,“ Oh ! his heart—his heart was brokenFor the love of Alice Gray 1”THE SWISS BOY.Come, arouse thee, arouse thee, my hrave SwissTake thy pail, and to lalwur away,C/Oine, arouse thee, arouse thee, my brave SwissTake thy pail, and to labour away.The sun is up, with ruddy beam.The kiue are thronging to the stream.Come, arouse thee, &e.Am not I, am not I, say, a merry Swiss*boy,When I hie to the mountain away ?Am not I, am not I, say, a merry Swiss boy,,When I hie to the mountain away ?For there a shepherd maiden dear.Awaits my song with listening ear.Am not I, &c.Then at night, then at night, O, a gay SwissI’m away to my comrades, away.Then at night, then at night, O, a gay SwissI’m away to my comrades, away.The cup we fill, the wine is passed,In friendship round, untill at last.With “ Good night,” and “ Good night,” goelhappy Swiss boyTo his home and his slumbers away.THE ANCHOR’S WEIGHED.Tke tear fell gently from her eye.When last we parted on the shore:My bosom heaved with many a sigh,To think 1 ne’er might see her more.s.Jear youth, she cried, and canst Uiol haste away ?My heart will break—a little moment stay.Alas ! I cannot—I cannot part from thee.Hie anchor’s weighed—farewell! farewell! remem¬ber me 1Weep not, my love, I trembling said ;Doubt not a constant heart like mine.I ne’er can meet another maidWhose charm can fix my heart like thine.Go, then, she cried, but let thy constant mindOft think on her thou leavest in tears behind,A maid—this last embrace my pledge shall be.The anchor’s weighed—farewell! farewell! remem¬ber me !THE BOATIE ROWS.O weel may the-boatie row,And better may she speed ,And liesome may the boatie rowThat wins the bairns’ bread ;The boatie rows, the boatie rows,The boatie rows indeed ;And wecl may the boatio row.That wins my bairns’ bread.When, Jamie vow’d he wad be mineAnd wan frae me my heart,0 muclde lighter grew my creel,He^swore we’d never part:The boatie rows, the boatie rows.The boatie rows, fu* weel.And muckle lighter is the load.When love bears up the creel.6There Sawney, Jock, and JanetieAre up and gotten lair;.They’ll help to gar the boatie row.And lighten a’ our care.The boatie rows, the boatie rows,The boatie rows fu’ weel.And lightsome be her heart that bearsThe murlain and the creel.And when wi’ age we’re worn down,And hirpling round the door.They’ll help to keep us dry and warm.As we did ihem before ;Then weel may the boatie row,She wins the bairns’ bread ;And happy be the lot o’ a’.That wish the boatie speed.BEGONE DULL CARE.Begone, dull care ! I prithee begone from me;Begone, dull care ! thou and I can never agree.Long time hast thou been tarrying here,And fain thou wouldst me kill;But i’ faith ! dull care,Thou never shalt have thy will.loo much care will make a young man grey ;And too much care will turn an old man to clay,My wife shall dance, and I will sing,So merrily pass the day ;For I hold it one of the wisest things.To drive dull care away.7MARRY FOR LOVE AND WORKFOR SILLER,hen I and my Jenny thegithev were tied,We had but sma’ share o’ the world between rb ;;t lo’ed ither weel, and had youth on oor side.And strength and gold health were abundant])gi’en ns;rarsled and toiled throng the fniT and theAnd she was right carefn’ o’ what I brought til!her,r aye we had mind o’ the canny anld rule.Just “ marry for love, and work for siller.”ir bairns they cam’ thick-—we were thankfn’ forthat.For the bit and the brattie cam’ aye alang wi’them;ir pan we exchanged for a guid mucle pat.And somehow or ither, we aye had to gi’e themir laddies grew np, and they wrought wi mysel,’Ilk ane gat as bnirdly and stont as a miller,ir lasses they keepet ns trig aye, and hale.And now we count a bit trifle o’ siller.it I and my Jenny are baith wearin’ down.And out lads and our lassies has a’ gotten mar~ried ;it sae, we can rank wi’ the best i’ the townThough our noddles we never too paughtily car¬ried. i■*i0'>ark me I’ve now got a braw cochit ha„,-a our civic building am reckon’d a pillar;: ? a bit honour for ane to get at,->!r?»fried for love, and wha wrought for siller?8HOME! SWEET HOME.' Mid pleasures and palaces, though we mayBe it ever so bumble, there’s no place like hA charm from the skies seems to hallow usWhich, seek through the world, is ne’er meelsewhere.Home, home, sweet, sweet home ! jThere’s no place like home ! There’s nlike home !A n exile from home, splendour dazzles in vaiOh ! give me my lowly thatched cottage agaiThe birds singing gaily, that came at my cal"Give me them, with the peace of mind, deareiall.Home, home ! sweet, sweet home !There’s no place like home ! There’s nolike home !THE MINUTE GUN AT SEA.When in the storm, on Albions coast.Hie night watch guards his wary post,From thoughts of danger free,He marks some vessel’s dusky form.And hears amid the howling stonn.The minute gun at sea.The minute gun at sea.And hears amid the howling storm.The minute gun sea.Swiftton the shore a hardy fewThe life-boat man with a gallant crew, |And dare the dang'rous wave;ft{Through the wild surf they cleave th.-re way.Lost in the foam, nor know dismay—•For they go the crew to save.For they go the crew to save,|Lost in the foam, nor know dismay—For they go the crew to save.jKl ft . - r r t.tpnt O, what raptures fill each hreast!)f the hopeless crew of the ship distress’d;.Vhen landed safe, what joys to tellOf all the dangers that befell ?—hen is heal'd no more,By the watch on the shore,en is heard no more, by the watch on theshore,The minute gun at sea.THE LIGHT GUITAR.0, leave the gay and festive scenes,The halls of dazzling light,And rove with me through forests greenBeneath the silent night.There as we watch (he ling’ring rays.That shine from every star,I’ll sing the song of happier days.And strike the light guitar.I’ll sing, &c.I’ll tell the how the maiden wept.When her true knight was slain,And how her broken spirit slept.And never woke again10I’ll tell thee how the steed drew oigh.And left his lord afar;Bnt if my tale should make yon si&L,I’ll etnke the light guitar.But if my tale, &c.YE MARINERS OF ENGLAND.Ye mariners of England,Who guard our native seas.Whose flag has braved a thousand yeanThe battle and the breeze !Your glorious standard launch again,To match another foe,And sweep through the deep,While the stormy winds do blow.While the stormy winds do blow,While the stormy winds do blow.While the battle rages long and loadAnd the stormy tempests blow.The spirits of your fathersWill start from every wave ;T ;i -ick it was their field of fame—l‘hi! ocean was the grave.e Blake and mighty Nelson fell‘ >ur manly hearts will glow,you sweep through the deep,While the stormy winds do blow.While the stormy winds. &o.he meteor-flag of EnglandMust yet terrific burn.Till the stormy night of war depai/And the star of peace return.Ii11Then to our faithful marinersThe social can shall flow,Who swept through the deep,While the stormy winds did blow.While the stormy winds did blow,While the stormy winds did blow,While the battle raged long and load,And the storms of war did blow.CONNEL AND FLORA.Dabk lowers the night o’er the wide stormy main,Till mild rosy morning rise cheerful againAlas ! morn returns to revisit the shore ;But Connel returns to his Flora no more.For see o’er yon mountain the dark cloud of death,And Connel’s lone cottage lies low on the heath.While bloody and pale, on a far distant shore.He lies to return to his Flora no more.Ye light-fleeting spirits that glide o’er yon steep !Oh ! would ye but waft me across the wild deep !There fearless I’d mix in the battle’s loud roar ;I’d die with my Connel, and leave him no more !THE WAY-WORN TRAVELLER.Faiitt and wearily, the way-worn travellerPlods nncheerily, afraid to stop ;Wandering drearily, a sad unravellerOf the mazes t’ward the mountain’s top.12Doubting, fearing, while his course he’s steering ,Cottages appearing, as he’s nigh to drop ;O ! how briskly then the way-worn travellerTreads the maizes t’ward the mountain’s top.Though so melancholy day has pass’d by,’Twoold be folly now to think on’t more;Blythe and jolly he the cag holds fast by,As he’s sitting at the goat-herd’s door:Bating, quaffing—at past labours laughing—Better far, by half, in spirits than beforeO ! how merrily the rested travellerSeems, while sitting at the goat-herd’s door.BUY A BROOM.From Teuchland I come, with my light wares allladen.To dear, happy England, in summer’s gay bloom ;Then listen, fair lady and young pretty maiden.Oh buy of the w andering Bavarian a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !O buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom !To brush away insects that sometimes annoy you ;You’ll find it quite handy to use night and day.And what better exercise, pray, can employ you.Than to sweep all vexatious intruders away.Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !O bny of the wandering Bavarian a broom 113ire winter comes on, for sweet home soon departing,viy toil for your favours again I’ll resume ;\nd while gratitude’s tear in my eye-lid is starting,Hess the time that in England I cried buy a broom.Buy a broom ! buy a broom !Buy a broom ! buy a broom !) buy of the wandering Bavarian a broom !THE HIGHLAND MINSTREL BOYI ha’e wander’d mony a summer night,Alang the banks of Clyde,Beneath the moon’s sweet silv’ry light,Wi’ Mary at my side.A summer was she to mine e’e.An’ to my heart a joy ;An’ weel she lo’ed to roam wi’ me.Her Highland Minstrel boy.I ha’e wander’d mony a summer night, &:c.Oh, her presence could on every starNew brilliancy confer ;And I thought the flowers were sweeter farWhen they were seen with her.Her brow was calm as sleeping sea,Her glance was full o’ joy ;And, oh, her heart was true to me,Her Highland Minstrel boy.Oh, her presence could on every star, &c,I ha’e play’d to ladies, fair and gay.In mony a southrou hall;But there was one far, far away,A world aim"? them all.'14And now, tho’ weary years have fled,I think wi’ moumfu’ joyUpon the time when Mary wedHer Highland Minstrel boy.I ha’e play’d to ladies, fair and gay, &c.O ARE YOU SLEEPIN’ MAGGIE.O are you sleep! n’ MaggieO are yon sleepin’ MaggieLet me in, for loud the linn.Is roarin’ o’er the warlock craigieMirk and rainy is the night,No a starn in a’ the carry,Lightnings gleam athwart the lift.An’ winds drive wi’ winters fury,rM-nH ' 1 ’Fearfu’ soughs the boor tree bank,ITie rifted wood roars wild an’ dreary,Loud the iron yate does clank.An’ cry o’ howlets maks me eerie.O are ye sleepin’ Maggie, &c.boon my breath I da urn a speak,For fear I rouse your waukrife DaddjCauld’s the blast upon my cheek,O rise, rise my bonny Lady.O are ye sleepin’ Maggie, &c.She op’t the door, she let him in.He cuist aside his dreepin’ plaidie;“ Blaw your warst ye rain an’ win’.Since Maggie now I’m in aside ye,’15Plow since ye’er wankin’ Maggie !Now since ye’re wankin’ Maggie !What care I for howlets cry,For boor—tree hank, or warlock craigie.BRUCE’S ADDRESS.Scots, wha ha’e wi’ Wallace bled ;Scots, wham Bruce has aften ledWelcome to your gory bed,Or to victory !Now’s the day, an’ now’s the hour !See the front of battle lour;See approach proud Edward’s pow’r.Chains an’ slavery !Wha will be a traitor knave PWha can fill a coward’s grave ?Wha sae base as be a slave ?Coward, turn an’ flee lWha for Scotland’s king an’ law.Freedom’s sword will strongly draw ?Freeman stand, or freeman fa’Caledonian, on wi’ me.By oppression’s woes and pains;By your sons in servile rhains 5We will drain our dearest veins,Bnt they ;hall be free.Lay the proud usurpers low ;Tyrant* fall in ev’ry foe;Liberty’s in every blow !Let us do or die !16THE TRUMPET SOUNDS A VICTORYHe was famed for deeds of arms.She a maid of matchless charms ;Now to him her love imparts;One pure flame pervades both hearts;Honour calls him to the field.Love to conquest now must yield.“ Sweeet maid!” he cries,‘‘again, I’ll come to thee,When the glad trumpet sounds a victory !”Battle now with fury glows !Hostile blood in torrents flows !His duty tells him to depart.She press’d her hero to her heart,And now the trumpet sonnds to arms.Amid the clash of war’s alarms.'* Sweot maid !” he cries, &c.Ho with love and conquest burns.Doth subdue his mind by turns.Death the soldier now enthralls !With his wounds the hero falls !She disdaining war’s alarms,Rush’d and caught him in her arms.“ O death !” he cried, “ thou’rt welcome now to meFor, hark ! the glad trumpet sounds a victory.”HAUD AWA’ FRAE ME, DONALD.Haud awa, bide awa,Hand awa frae me, Donald;What care I for a’ your wealth.An’ a that ye can gi’e, Donald ?I17I waclna lea' ray lowland ladFor a’ your goud an’ gear, Donald;Sae tak’ your plaid, and o’er the hill.An’ stay nae langer here, Donald.Hand awa, hide awa, &c.My Jamie is a gallant youth,I lo’e but laim alane, Donald;And in honnie Scotland’s isle.Like him there is nane, Donald.Hand awa, hide awa,Haud awa frae me, Donald ;What care I for a your wealth.An’ a’ that ye can gi’e Donald?He wears nae plaid, nor tartan hose,Nor garters at his knee, Donald;But oh ! he wears a faithfu’ heart,And love blinks in his e’e, Donald.Sae haud awa, hide awa,Come nae ruair at e’en, Donald;I wadna break my Jamie’s heart,To he a Highland queen, Donald.HE’S OWER THE HILLS THAT 11,0’E WEEL.CHORUS.He’s ower the hills that I lo’e weel.He’s ower the hills we darena name.He’s ower the hills ayont Dumblane,Wha soon will get his welcome hame.18My father’s gone to fight for him,My brilhers winna hide at hame.My mither greets and prays for themAnd ’deed she thinks they’re no to Marne.He’s ower the hills, 8rcThe whigs may scoff, and the whigs may jeerBut, ah ! that love mann he sincereWhich still keeps true whate’er hetide,An’ for his sake leaves a’ beside.He’s ower the hills, &c.His right these hills, his right these plains;O’er Highland hearts secure he reigns.What lad’s e’er did, our laddies will do ;Were I a laddie, I’d follow him too.He’s ower the hills, &c.Sae noble a look, sae princely an air,Sae gallant and bold, sae young and sae fair;Oh ! did ye but see him, ye’d do as we’ve done;Hear him but ance, to his standard you’d run.He’s ower the hills, &c.DAME DURDEN.Dame Durden kept five serving girls,To carry the milking pail,She also kept five lab’ring men.To use the spade and flail.'Twas Moll and Bet, and Doll, and Kate,And Dorthy Draggletail,And John and Dick, and Joe and Jack,And Humphrey with hs flail.19’Twas John kiss’d Dolly, and Dick hiss’d Betty,And Joe kiss’d Molly, and Dorthy Draggle tail,1 ^nd Kitty was a charming maid.To carry the milk-pail.u. I h • ■; ODame Darden in the mom so soon.She did begin to bawl,To rouse her servant maids and men.She did most loudly call.’Twas Moll and Bet, fee.’Twas on the mom of Valentine,The birds began to prate.Dame Durden’s servant maids and men.They all began to mate.’Twas Moll and Bet, &c.O’ER THE MUIR AMANG THEHEATHER.Comin’ through the craigs o’ Kyle,Amang the bonnie blooming heather,There I met a bonnie lassie,Keeping a’ her ewes thegither.O’er the muir amang the heather,O’er the muir amang the heatherThere I met a bonnie lassieKeeping a’ her ewes thegither.Says I, my dear, where is thy hame ?In muir, or dale, pray tell me whither ?Says she, I tend the fleecy flocksThat feed amang the blooming heatherO’er the muir, &c.'20We laid us down upon a bank,Sae warm and sunnie was the weatherShe left her flocks at large to roveAmang the bonny blooming heather.O’er the muir, &c.While thus we lay she sang a sang.Till echo rang a mile and farther.And aye the burden o’ the sang.Was o’er the muir amang the heather.O’er the muir, &c.She charm’d my heart, and aye sinsyneI couldna think on ony ither:By sea and sky she shall be mine!The bonnie lass amang the heather.O’er the mnir, &c.MARCH TO THE BATTLE FIELD.March to the battle field,The foe is now before us ;Each heart is freedom’s shield.And heaven is smiling o’er v.s.The woes and pains, the galling chains.Which kept our spirit under,In proud disdain we’ve broke again.And tore each link asunder.March to the battle field, &c.Who, for his country brave.Would fly from the invader;Who, his base life to save.Would traitor-like degrade her?March to the battle field, &c.2iOnr hallow’d cause, our home and laws.’Gainst tyrant power sustaining.We’ll gain a crown of bright renown.Or die our rights maintaining.March to the battle field, &c.! 'BANKS OF ALLAN WATER.On the banks of Allan water.When the sweet spring time did fall,Was the Miller’s lovely daughter,Fairest of them all.For his bride a soldier sought her.And a wining tongue had he;On the banks of Allan water,None so gay as she.On the banks of Allan water,When brown Autumn spread its store.There 1 saw the Miller’s daughter;But she smiled no more.For the summer grief had brought her.And her soldier false was he,On the banks of Allan water,None so sad as she.On the banks of Allan water.When the winter snow fell fast.Still was seen the Miller’s daughter.Chilling blew the blast.But the Miller’s lovely daughter,Both from cold and care was free—On the banks of Allan water,'l here a corse lay she !i<JP IN THE MORNING EARLYUp in the morning’s no for me.Up in the morning early ;When a the hills are cover’d wi’ snaw,I’m snre it’s winter fairly.Cauld hlaws the wind ixae east to west,The drift is driving sairly ;Sae loud and shrill’s I hear the blast.I’m snre it’s winter fairlyUp in the morning &c.Fhe birds sit chittering on the thorn,A’ day they fare but sparelyAnd lang’s the uicht frae e'en to mornI’m sure it’s winter fairly.Up in the morning, &o.n tj THE BANKS O’ DOOM.•'4 •»«; ’Ul twju;* iT'- 'I:Yb banks and braes o’ bonnie Doon,How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair !How can ye chant, ye little birds,And I sae weary fu’ o’ care !Thon’lt break my heart, thou wailding bird.That wantons through the flowering thornThon minds me of departed joys,Departed, never to return.Oft ha’e I roved by bonnie Doon,To see the rose and woodbine twine iAnd hear ilk bird sing o’ its love.As fetidly eae did I o’ miWT lightsome heart I pn’d a roM,Fu’ arweet upon its thomj tree ;But my fause lover stole my rose,And left the sharpest thorn wi’ me. . - .v. r: Wl/.   ! . . ' 9. * IRULE BRITANNIA.• . s v-’fl II eiJaoa 'uflWhen Britain first at heaven’s command,Arose from out the azure main ;This was the charter of our land,And guardian angels sung this strain-Rulo Britannia, Britannia rulfe the waves,Britons never will be slavesThe nations not so blest as thee,Must in their turn to tyrants fall;While thou shaft flourish great and free.The dread and envy of them all:Rule Britannia, Britannia rule the wares,Britons never will be slaves,...... ni,h/ e -,Ht / my\-'/ a fefmi.' ri JoqoitnT efTF..ids., tl ,9ia •*o,i hr.'..!’fi iw _oi ( iiidt ellij I odt erwo ?'hHFINIS. ' .,, - ;; •* tipd . aH jiT.iota nuM edt ta'O *• . »• . ,b I 1 -Iji .ii ,i!j nt iirsIVl« . . « '• : t.T '-i !i,. ffi • {I7j.F1 ijiitnrn'iM *♦({; nt J■ • ..... ,:moQ . , .ifn.... inaJnflCONTENTS.Alice Gray, The Swiss Boy, The Anchor’s Weighed, . . „The Boatie Rows,  Begone Dull Care, Marry for Love and Work for Siller,Home, Sweet Home, ....The Minute Gun at Sea, . . . .The Light Guitar, Ye Mariners of England, . . . .Connel and Flora, The Way-worn Traveller,Buy a Broom, The Highland Minstrel Boy, .O are ye Sleepin’ Maggie,Bruce’s Address, The Trumpet Sounds a Victory,Haud awa’ Frae me, Donald,He’s owre the Hills that I lo’e weel.Dame Durden,  O’er the Muir amang the Heather,March to the Battle Field, . . .Banks of Allan Water, ....Up in the Morning Early, . .nks of Doon, Britannia, ......if T