SELECT MISCELLANYA COLLECTION OF PIECESMORAL, HISTORICAL, AND HUMOUROUS,EY CELEBRATED AUTHORS,l OF SCOTLANDGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERSTHESELECT MISCELLANY.BATTLE OF THE BREEKS.A PASSAGE FROM THE LIFE OF WILLIAM M*GEE, WEAVER INHAMILTON.I often wonder, when I think of the tribulationsthat men bring upon themsells, through a want ofgumption and common independence of speerit.There now, was I for nae less than eighteen yearsas henpickit a man as ever wrocht at the loom.Maggy and me, after the first week of our marriage,never foregathered weel thegither. There wassomething unco dour and imperious about her tem¬per, although, I maun say, barring this drawback,she was nae that ill in her way either—that is tosay, she had a sort of kindness about her, and be¬haved in a truly mitherly way to the bairns, gie’inthem a’ things needfu’ in the way of feeding andclaithing so far as our means admitted. But, 0man, for a’ that, she was a dour wife. There wasnae pleasing her ae way or anither ; and wheneverI heard the bell ringing for the kirk, it put me inmind of her tongue—aye wag, wagging, and abuse-ing me beyond bounds. In ae word, I was a puir,broken-hearted man, and often wished myself inAbraham’s bosom, awa frae the cares and miseriesof this sinfu’ world.I was just saying that folk often rin their heads4into scrapes for want of a pickle natural spunk.Let nae man tell me that guid nature and sim-pleecity will get on best in this world ; na—faith,no. I had ower muckle experience that way ; andthe langer I lived has pruved to me that my auldmaister, James Currie, (him in the Quarry Loan,)wasna sae far wrang when he alleged, in his drollgude-humoured way, that a man should hae enoughof the deil about him to keep the deil frae him.That was, after a’, ane of the wisest observes I haeheard o’ for a lang time. Little did I opine thatI would ever be oblegated to mak’ use o’t in myain particklar case :—but, bide awee, and ye shallsee how it was brocht about between me andMaggy.It was on a wintry uicht when she set out topick a quarrel wi’ Mrs Todd, the huckster’s wife,anent the price of a pickle flour which I had boughtsome days before, for making batter of, but whichdidna turn out sae weel as 1 expeckit, consideringwhat was paid for’t. Had I been consulted, Iwould hae tell’t her to bide at hame, and no fashher thumb about the matter, which after a’ wasonly an affair of three-happence farthing, andneither here nor there. But, na ; Maggie wasnane o’ the kind to let sic an object to stan’ by ;so out she sets, wi’ her red cloak about her, andher black velvet bonnet—that she had just thatday got hame frae Miss Lorimer, the milliner—upon her head. But I maun first tell what passedbetween her and me on this wonderfu’ occasion.’“ And now, my dear,” quo’ I, looking as couthlyand humble as I could, and pulling my Kilmarnocknight-cap a wee grain off my brow in a kind of halfrespectfu’ fashion, “ whats this ye’re ganging to boabout? Odds, woman, I wadna gie a pirn for a’5that has happened. What signifies a pickle flourscrimp worth half a groat! ” Faith, I would betterhae held my tongue, for nae sooner was the worduttered, than takin’ baud of a can, half fu’ o’ readymade-dressing, which I was preparing to lay on awab of blue check I was working for Mr AndrewTreddles, the Glasgow manufacturer—I say, takin’hand o’ this, she let it fly at my head like a cannonball. But Providence was kind, and instead ofknocking out my brains, as I had every reason toespeck, it gied bang against our ain looking glass,and shattered it into five hundred pieces. But Ididna a’thegither escape skaith, the dressing havingflown out as the can gied by me, and plaistered a’my face ower in a manner maist extraordinary tobehold. By jingo, my corruption was roused atthis deadly attempt, and gin she hadna been mywife, I wad hae thrawn about her neck like atappit hen’s. But, na—I was henpickit, and shehad sic a mastery over me as nae persuasions ofmy ain judgement could overcome. Sae I coulddae nathing but stan’ glowering at her like amoudiewart, while she poured out as muckle abuseas If I had been her flunky, instead of her naturallord and master. Ance or twice I fand my nievesyeuking to gie her a clour by way of balancingaccounts, but such was the power of influence, thatshe had obtained that I durstna cheep for my veryheart’s bluid. So awa’ she gaid on her errand,leaving me sittin’ by the fire, to mak’ the best ofmy desperate condition.“ 0, Nancy,” said I to my dochter, as she satmending her brother’s sark, opposite to me, “ Is nayour mither an awin' woman ?”“ I see naething awin' about her,” quo’ thecratur; “ I think she scrvit ye richt; and had I6a man, I would just treat him in the very sameway, if he daur’d to set his nose against any thingthat I wanted.” I declare to ye when I heard thisfrae my ain flesh and bluid, I was perfectly dum-foundered. The bairn I had brought up on myhnee—that used, when a wee thing, to come andsit beside me at the loom, and who was in thecustom of wheeling my pirns wi’ her ain hand—odds, man, it was desperate. I coudna say anitherword, but I fand a big tear come hap hap-pingower my runkled cheeks* the first that ha»d wetthem sin’ I was a bit laddie running about beforethe schule door. What was her mither’s abusive¬ness to this ? A man may thole muckle frae hiswife, but 0, the harsh words of the undutifu’ bairngang like arrows to his heart, and he weeps tearsof real bitterness. I wasna angry at the lassie—I was ower grieved to be angered ; and for the firsttime I found that my former sufferings wore onlyas a single thread to a haill hank of yarn comparedto them I suffered at this moment.A’thegither the thing was mair than I couldstaun, so, rising up, I betaks mysell to my but-an-ben neighbour, Andrew Brand. Andrew was anuncommon sagacious chiel, and, like mysell, aweaver to his trade. He was beuk-learned, andhad read a hantel on different subjects, so that hewas naturally looked up to by the folks round about,on account of his great lear. When onything gaedwrang about the Leechlee street, where we lived,we were a’ glad to consult him; and his advicewas reckoned no greatly behint that of Mr Meek,the minister. He was a great counter or ’rith-metishian, as he ca’d it; and it was thocht bymony guid judges that he could handle a pen aswoel as Mr Hick, the writing-master, himsell. So,7as I was saying, I stappit ben to Andrew’s, to askbis advice, but odds, if ye ever saw a man in sic adesperate passion as he was in, when I tauld himhow I had been used by my wife and dochter.“ William M‘Ghee,” said he, raising his voice—it was a geyan strong ane—“ ye’re an absolutegomeril. 0, man, but ye’re a henpickit sumph!I tell ye ye’re a gawpus, and a lauching stock, andno worth the name of a man. Do ye hear that ?”0 ay, I hear’t very weel,”quo’ I, no that pleasedat being sae spoken to, even by Andrew Brand,who was a man I could stamach a guid deal frae,in the way of reproof—“ I hear’t a’ weel eneuch,and am mucklo obleged to ye, nae doubt, for yourconsolation.”“ Hooly and fairly, William,” said he in akinder tone, for he saw I was a degree hurt by hisspeech. “ Come, I was only joking ye, man, andyou maunua tak onything amiss I hae said. Butreally, William, I speak to ye as a frien’, aud tellye that ye are submitting to a tyranny which noman of common understanding ought to submit to.Is this no the land of liberty ? Are we no just asfree as the Duke in his grand palace down by ; andlias ony body a richt—tell mo that, WilliamM‘Gec—to tyranneeze ower anither as your wifedoes owcr you! I’ll no tell ye what to do, but I’lljust tell you what I would do, if my wife anddochter treated me as yours have treated you—lord, man, I would ding their hams about, andknock their heads thegither like twa curling stanes.I would aye be master in my ain house.”This was Andrew’s advice, and I thocht it sound¬ed geyan rational, only no very easy to put inpractice. Hoosomoyer, thinks I to mysell, I’llconsider about it, and gin I could only bring mysell8to mak the experiment, wha kens but I michtsucceed to a miracle ? On stepping back to myain house, the first thing I did was to tak a thim-blefu’ of whisky, by way of gi’eing me a picklespunk, in case of ony fresh rumpus wi’ the wife,and also to clear up my ideas—for I hae fand, thatafter a lang spell at the loom the thochts as weelas the body, are like to get stupid and dozey. SoI taks a drappie, and sits down quietly by the fire¬side, waiting for the return of Maggy frae scoldingMrs Todd about the flour.In she comes, a’ in a flurry. Her face was asred as a peeyny rose, her breathing came fast, andshe lookit a’thegither like ane that has had a sairAvarsle wi’ the tongue. But she was far frae beingdowncast. On the contrair, she lookit as proud asa Turkey cock ; and I saw wi’ the tail o’ my e’ethat she had gained a grand victory ower puir MrsTodd, "who was a douce, quiet woman, and naematch for the like of her in randying. So shobegan to stump and mak a great phrase about theway she had outcrawed the puir body ; and wasa’thegither as upset about it, as if Duke Hamiltonhad made her keeper of his palace. Losh, I wasmad to hear’t, and twa or three times had a gudemind to put in a word—to sic a degree Avas mycourage raised by the drap spirits—but aye as thewords Avere rising to my mouth, the thocht of thecan and the dressing sent them back again, tillthey stuck like a bane in my throat. Very likelyI micht hae said neer a word, and Andrew Brand’sadvice micht hae gain for naething, had it nobeen for the cratur Nancy, who was sac lifted upabout her mither’s dispute, that naething wouldsair her but to hae the haill affair mentioned cutand dry.9“And did you cast up to Mrs Todd, mither,”quo’ the little cutty, “ that she was fat?”“Ay, that I did,” said Maggy. “ I tell’t hershe was like a barn door. I tell’t her she waslike the side of a house. ‘ Ye’re a sow, quo’ I ;ye get fou every hour of the day wi’ your lump ofa guidemau.’ ”But this wasna a’—for nae sooner had Maggieanswered her dochter’s first question, than thecratur was ready wi’ anither : “And mither, didye cast up to her that her faither was a meeser ?”“Atweel did I, Nancy,” answered the gudewife.“ I tell’t her a’ that. I coost up to her that herfaither was a meeser, and would ride to Lunnon ona louse, and make breeks of its skin, and candelsof its tallow.”I could thole this nae langer. I fand the hail!man working within me, and was moved to a pitchof daring, mair like madness than onything else.Faith, the whisky was of gude service now, and sowas Andrew Brand’s advice. I accordingly steekitmy neives wi’ desperation, threw awa’ my cowl,tucked up my sark sleeves—for my coat happenedto be aff at the time—and got up frae the three¬footed stool I had been sitting upon in the twink¬ling of an e’e. I trumbled a’ ower, but whether itwas wi’ fear, or wi’ anger, or wi’ baith putthegither,it would be difficult to say. I was in awfu’ passion,and as fairce as a papish. “And so,” said I, “ yecoost up sic things to the honest woman, Mrs Todd!0, Maggy M‘Gee, Maggy M‘Gee, are ye noashamed of yoursell ? Odd it would hae duneyour heart gude to see how she glowered at me.She was bewildered and lookit as if to see whetherI was mysell, and no some ither body. But herevil speerit didna lie lang asleep: it soon broke out10that 1 maun now staun firm, or be a dead man forever. “ Has your faither been at the whiskybottle? said she to her dochter. “ He looks as ifhe was the waur of drink." He had a glass justbefore ye cam in,” answered the wicked jimpey ;and scarcely had she spoken the word, when Maggyflew upon me like a teger, and gie’d me a skelp on thecheek wi’ her open loof, that made me turn roundtapwise on the middle of the floor. Seeing thataffairs were come to this pass, I saw plainly that Imaun go on, no forgetting in sae doing my frien’Andrew’s advice, as also my auld master, TammasCurrie’s observe, anent a man ha’eing aneuch ofthe deil in his temper to keep the deil awa’ fraohim. So I picked up a’ the spunk I had in me.besides what I had frae the drap whisky; andfa’ing to, I gi’ed her sic a leathering, as neverwoman got in her born days. In ae word, she metwi’ her match, and roared aloud for mercy : butthis I would on nae account grant, till she promisedfaithfully, that in a’ time coming she would ac¬knowledge me as her lord and master—and obey mein everything as a dutiful wife should her husband.As soon as this was settled, in stappit AndrewBrand. At the sight of my wife greeting, and mesae fairce, he held up his hands wi’ astonishment.“William M‘Gee,” quo’ ho, “ it’s no possible thatye’re maister in this house !”“ It’s no only possible, but its true, Andrew,”was my answer ; and taking mo by the hand, liewished me joy for my speerit and success.Sae far, sae weel: the first grand stroke wasmade, but there was something yet to do. I haddischarged a’ outstanding debts wi’ my wife, andhad brocht her to terms ; but I had yet to reducelike a squib on the King’s birth day, and I saw11my bairns to their proper senses, and show themthat I was their lord and maister, as weel as theirmither’s. Pair things! my heart was wae forthem, for they were sairly miseducated, and held mein nae mair estimation, than if I had been ane of myain wabster lads. So, just wi’ a view to their glide,I took down a pair of tench ben-leather taws, weelburnt at the finger ends, and gi’ed Nancy as monycracks ower the bare neck, as set her sqeeling be¬yond a’ bounds. It was pitifu’ to see the cratur,how she skipped about the room, and ran awa toher mither, to escape my faitherly rage. But a’assistence frae that quarter was at end now ; andshe was fain to fa’ down on her knees and beg myforgeevness—and promise to conduct hersell as be¬came my dochter, in a’ time coming.Just at this moment, in^comes wee Gordie,greeting for his parritch. He kent naething ofwhat had taken place in the house ; and doubtlessexpeckit to mak’ an idiot of me, his father, as he hadbeen accustomed to do, almost frae his very cradle.I saw that now was the time to thresh the cor¬ruption out of him ; and brandishing the taws owermy head, I made a stap forrit to lay hand uponhim, and treat him like the lave. He looked as ifhe had an inkling of what was forthcoming, andrun whinging and craiking to his mither, whostood wiping her een wi’ her striped apron in thecorner of the room. The terrified laddie clang to herknees, but she never offered to lend a helping hand ;so great was the salutary terror wi’ which I hadinspired her. So I pu’d him awa frae her coats,to which he was clinging ; and laying him owermy knee, I gie’d him hipsy-dipsy in the presenceof his mither, his sister, and Andrew Brand, wiiowere looking on.12And thus hae I, who for eighteen years wasruled by my wife, got the upper hand ; and onyman who is henpickit, as I hae been, should justtake the same plan, and his success will be as sureas mine. Andrew Brand aye said to me that aman should wear his ain breeks ; and I can main-teen, frae present experience, that a wiser sayingis no to be found in the proverbs of Solomon, theson of David. No that Maggie has na tried nowsand thans to recover her lost power, but I hae onthae occasions conduckit mysell wi’ sic firmness,that she has at last gi’en it up as a bad job, and isnow as obedient a wife, as ye’ll meet wi’ betweenthis and Both well. The twa bairns, too, are justwonderfully changed, and are as raisouable as canbe expeckit, a’ things considered. Let men, there¬fore, whether gentle or semple, follow my plan, andthe word henpickit, as Andrew Brand says, willsoon slip out of the dictionar.—A Modern Pytha¬gorean.THE BARBER OF DENSE.A clergyman possessing an uncommon share ofwit and humour, had occasion to lodge for thenight, with some friends, at the inn of a town,which for certain reasons, we shall denominateDunse. Requiring the services of a barber, hewas recommended by the waiter to Walter Dron,who was represented as excellent at cracking ajoke, or telling a story. This functionary beingforthwith introduced, made such a display of hisoral and manual dexterity, as to leave on the mindas well as the body of his customer, a very favour¬able impression, and induce the latter to inviteThim to sit down to a friendly glass. The mutualfamiliarity which the circulation of the bottle pro¬duced, served to show off the barber in his happiestmood; and the facetious clergyman, amid the generalhilarity, thus addressed him : “ Now Wattie, I en¬gage to give you a guinea, on the following terms,—that you leap backwards and forwards over yourchair for the space of half an hour—leisurely, yetregularly—crying out at every leap, ‘ here goes I,Watty L)ron, barber of Dunse —but that, shouldyou utter any thing else during the time, you forfeitthe reward.” Wattie, though no doubt surprisedat the absurdity of the proposal, yet, consideringhow easily he could earn the guinea, and the im¬probability that such an opportunity would everagain present itself, agreed to the stipulations.The watch was set, and the barber having stript ofhis coat, leaning with one hand on the back of thechair, commenced leaping over the seat, uniformlyrepeating, in an exulting tone, the words prescribed.After matters had gone on thus smoothly for aboutfive minutes, the clergyman rung the bell, and thusaccosted the waiter:—“ What is the reason, Sir,you insult me, by sending a mad fellow like that,instead of a proper barber, as you pretended hewas ?” Barber—(leaping)—“ Here goes I, Wat¬tie Dron, barber of Dunse.” Waiter—“ Oh ! Sir,I don’t know what is the matter, I never saw himin this way all my life—Mr Dron, Mr Dron, whatdo you mean ?” Barber—“ Here goes I, Wattie—”Waiter—“ Bless me, Mr Dron, recollect theseare gentlemen ; how can you make such a foolof yourself?” Barber—“Here goes I—,” Land¬lord—(entering in haste)—“ What the Devil,Sir, is all this—the fellow is mad—how dare you.Sir, insult gentlemen in my house by such conduct?”14Barber—“ Here goes I, Wattie Dron”—Landlord—“ I say, Bob, run for bis wife, for this can’t beput up with—gentlemen, the man is evidently de¬ranged, and I hope you will not let my house beinjured in any way by this business.” “ Herogoes—”—(wife pushing in)—“Oh! Wattie, Wat¬tie, what’s this that’s come ower ye ? Do you noken your ain wife V’ Barber—“ Here goes I,”—Wife—(weeping)—“ Oh ! Wattie, if ye care nafor me, mind your bairns at hame, and come awa’wi’ me.” Barber—“ Here goes I, Wat—” Theafflicted wife now clasped her husband round theneck, and hung on him so as effectually to arrestbis farther progress. Much did poor Wattie strug¬gle to shake off his loving, yet unwelcome spouse,but it was now no “ go”—his galloping was at anend. “ Confound you for an idiot,” he bitterly ex¬claimed, “ I never could win a guinea so easily inmy life.” It is only necessary to add, that the ex¬planation which immediately followed, was muchmore satisfactory to mine host than to the barber’sbetter half ; and that the clergyman restored Wat¬tie to his usual good humour, by generously re¬warding his exertions with the well-earned guinea.SAYINGS OF POOR RICHARD.It would be thought a bard government that shouldtax its people one-tenth part of their time, to beemployed in its service ; but idleness taxes many ofas much more : sloth, by bringing on diseases, ab¬solutely shortens life. “ Sloth like rust, consumesfaster than labours wears, while the used key isalways bright,” as Poor Richard says. But, “ dostthou love life, then do not squander time, for that15is the stuff life is made of,” as poor Richard says.Uow much more than is necessary do we spend insleep! forgetting that “ the sleeping fos catches nopoultry,” and that “ there will be sleeping enoughin the grave,” as Poor Richard says.If time be of all things the most precious, ‘ ‘ wast¬ing time must be,” as Poor Richard says, “ thegreatest prodigality since as he elsewhere tells us“ Lost time is never found again; and what wecall time enough, always proves little enough.Let us then up and be doing, and doing to thepurpose, so by diligence shall we do more, withless perplexity. Sloth makes all things difficult,but industry, all easy ; and “ he that riseth late,must trot all day, and shall scarce overtake hisbusiness at nightwhile, “ laziness travels so slow¬ly, that poverty soon overtakes him. Drive thybusiness, let not that drive thee ; and early to bed,and early to rise, makes a man, healthy, wealthy,and wise,” as Poor Richard says. .So what signifies wishing and hoping for bettertimes? We may make those times better, if webestir ourselves. “ Industry need not wish, and hethat lives upon hope, will be fasting. There areno gains without pains ; then help hands, for I haveno lands, or if I have, they are smartly taxed.He that hath a trade, hath an estate ; and he thathath a calling, hath an office of profit and honour,”as Poor Richard says ; but then the trade must beworked at, and the calling well followed, or neitherthe estate nor the office will enable us to pay ourtaxes. If we are industrious, we shall neverstarve; for “at the working man’s house, hungerlooks in but dares not enter.” Nor will the bailiff,or the constable enter ; for industry pays debts,while despair increaseth them. What though youM1Ghave found no treasure, nor has any rich relationleft you a legacy, ‘ diligence is the mother of goodluck, and God gives all things to industry. Thenplough deep while sluggards sleep, and you shallhave corn to sell and to keep.” Work while it iscalled to-day, for you know not how much you maybe hindered to-morrow. “ One to-day is worthtwo to-morrows,” as Poor Richard says; andfurther, “ Never leave that till to-morrow, whichyou can do to-day.’ ’ If you were a servant, wouldyou not be ashamed that a good master shouldcatch you idle ? Are you then your own master ?be ashamed to catch yourself idle, when there is somuch to be done for yourself, your family, yourcountry, and your king.NO GRUMBLING.—A TALE.An odd whim once possessed a country ’squire,that he would not hire any servant whatever, untilten pounds should be deposited between the masterand servant; and the first that grumbled at anything, let it be what it might, was to forfeit themoney. Being in want of a coachman, not oneround the country would venture to go after theplace. Now it happened that one Thomas Winter-bourn, a coachman of London, who had beendischarged from a nobleman’s family, was in thatpart of the country on a visit, and being acquaintedwith the oddity of the ’squire’s whim, resolved toaccept of the place, and, on application, was admit¬ted into the family.Thomas was greatly surprised, after living therefor two months, that nothing was allowed him for17breakfast, dinner, or supper, but bread and cheeseand small beer. Being heartily tired of this kindof fare, he applied to the cook: ‘ Cookee,’ saysThomas, ‘ is it the standing rule of this family tokeep their servants on nothing but bread andcheese ?’ ‘ What! ’ says the cook, ‘ do you grumble ?’‘No, no, by no means, cookee,’ replied Thomas,being fearful of forfeiting the money. But recol¬lecting his master’s park was stocked with fine deer,he took a musket and shot a fawn, skinned it, andbrought it to the cook. ‘ Here cookee,’ saidThomas, ‘ take and roast this fawn for me imme¬diately ; for I have an acquaintance or two comingdown from London, to pay me a visit.’ The cookseemed to object to it, having some meat to dressdirectly for her master ; ‘ What,’ says Thomas,‘ cookee, do you grumble ?’ ‘No,’ replied the cook ;so down to roast went the fawn.The appointed time arrived that the masterordered dinner, and no sign of any coming to histable occasioned him to ring the bell, to know thereason of it; the cook acquainted the ’squire withall Thomas’s proceedings, who in a great hurrybolted down stairs into the kitchen, where he foundThomas very busy in basting the fawn. ‘ Howgot you that fawn?’ says the ’squire. ‘Shot it,’replied Thomas. ‘ Where ?’ says the ’squire. ‘ Inyour park,’ replied Thomas. ‘ By whose orders ?’quoth the ’squire. ‘ Do you grumble ? saysThomas. ‘ No, Thomas,’ says the ’squire ; andretired to his dining-room, greatly perplexed atThomas’s proceedings.He instantly wrote a letter to a gentleman wholived near six miles from his house, and orderedthat Thomas should carry it immediately. PoorThomas was obliged to comply, though with a sor-m18i-owfal heart to leave the fawn. After his depar¬ture, the ’squire ordered the fawn, when dressed,to be brought to his table, which was done accord¬ingly. On Thomas’s return, he found himselffairly tricked out of the fawn ; and instead of it,to his mortification, bread and cheese, and smallbeer, his old diet; however, Thomas vowed withinhimself to revenge it the first opportunity.A little while after, the ’squire, (who was goingto pay his addresses to a young lady,) gave ordersto Thomas to get the carriage, together with thehorses and harness, well cleaned. Thomas obeyedthe order, and on the road from the stable to the’squire’s house, he met a man with a small sand-cart, drawn by two remarkably fine jack-asses.Thomas insisted upon an exchange, the horses forthe asses, which being obtained, he cut all hismaster’s fine harness to pieces, to fit these Arabianponies, as he styled them. Matters being complet¬ed, he drove up boldly to the ’squire’s, and knockedat the gate ; the porter perceiving the droll figurehis master’s equipage cut, burst out into an im¬moderate fit of laughter! ‘C’up, c’up,’ saysThomas, ‘ what’s the fool laughing at i—Go andacquaint the ’squire his carriage is ready.’Shortly after the ’squire came, and seeing hiscarriage so beautifully adorned with cattle, wasstruck with astonishment. ‘ Why. what the dovil,’quoth the ’squire, ‘ have you got harnessed to mycarriage?’ ‘I will tell you,’says Thomas. ‘AsI was driving from your stable to the gate, I meta fellow driving a sand-cart, drawn by these twofine Arabian ponies, and knowing you to be fondof good cattle, I gave your horses for these twofine creatures ; they draw well, and are ornamentsto your carriage ; only observe what fine ears they19have got?’ ‘ D—n their ears and ornaments too,’says the ’squire : ‘ why, the fellow’s mad! ‘ ‘ What! ’cries Thomas, ‘do you grumble?’ ‘Grumble,’quoth the ’squire, ‘why, I think it is high time togrumble: the next thing, I suppose, my carriage isto be given away for a sand-cart!’On Thomas procuring the horses again, he paidhim his wages and forfeit-money, being heartilytired with the oddity of his whims, and declaredthat Thomas, the London coachman, was thedrollest clog he ever met with.BROSE AND BUTTER.During the time of Oliver Cromwell’s Protec¬torship, the principal residence of Charles II. wasat the court of his sister in Holland ; the lairdof Cockpen, a staunch adherent to the House ofStuart, followed the prince thither, and attachedhimself to Charles’ household. Cockpen, from hisskill and proficiency in music, very much contri¬buted to divert his royal master, by the impressivemanner in which he played the favourite airs ofhis native country ; but none pleased Charles sowell as the tune of “ Broso and Butter.” Sopartial was he to this air, that with “ Broso andButter” sounding in his ears he was lulled asleepat night, and with “Brose and Butter” awaked fromhis morning slumber. At the Restoration, Cock¬pen returned to Scotland, where he found that,in consequence of his attachment to the royalcause, his estate had been attainted. Many werethe applications he made to have it put again inhis possession, but all to no purpose. He at lengthwent to London, but was coldly received by the20courtiers, put off with fair promises, and in all hisattempts to gain an audience of the king, he wasbaffled and thwarted. Having formed an intimacyas a musician, with the organist of the king’schapel, he solicited, and obtained, as a specialfavour, permission to perform on the organ beforehis majesty, at the royal chapel. Cockpen exertedhis talents to the utmost, thinking to attract theattention of Charles, but all his efforts were un¬availing. On the conclusion of the service, insteadof a common voluntary, in a fit of despair he struckup “ Brose and Butter, ” which no sooner caughtthe ears of the king than he flew to the organ-gallery. The regular organist, perceiving thevivid flashes of Charles’ eye, was seized with sucha panic, that he fell on his knees and protested hisinnocence. “ It was not me, please your majesty,it was not me !”—“You! you!” exclaimed the en¬raptured monarch, as he hastily passed him,—“ You never could play any thing like it in yourlife. ” Then addressing his old associate in exile,—“ Odds fish, Cockpen ! I thought you wrould havemade me dance.”—“ I could have danced to ‘Broseand Butter,’ mice with a light heart too,” repliedthe performer,”—but my adherence to your ma¬jesty’s interest has bereft me of the lands of Cock¬pen.”—“ You shall dance,” said Charles,—“ Youshall dance, and be the laird of Cockpen yet.”—Accordingly the laird was immediately put inpossession of his inheritance.CURE FOR A CRIPPLE.It happened on a Sunday evening, about thirtyyears ago, that two sheep-stealers had meditated21an attempt on the flock of a wealthy farmer in theparish of A , in the west neuk of Fife. Thesheep were grazing in a park adjoining the villagechurchyard, and hard by the public road. Theeldest and most experienced of the depredators re¬commended that only one of them should go inamong the sheep, as it would not alarm them somuch as two. Accordingly the younger thief wasdespatched to bring a sheep, while the other wentinto the churchyard, and sat down upon a thorough-stone to amuse himself till his companion returned.Now it so happened that John, the minister’s man,had forgot to take home the Bible from the church,after the service of the day was over, which neglectwas not perceived until the minister called for thebooks to perform the duty of family worship, whenJohn was immediately sent to the church for theBible. John not being possessed of a very daring-spirit, and it being a dark winter night, was notvery fond of visiting the abodes of the dead at suchan hour ; but when he arrived at the churchyardgate, and got a glimpse of the man sitting on thethorough-stone, his hair stood on end, and his fearssoon conjured the thief into a demon. Withoutmore ado ho wheeled about, and made the best ofhis way to the manse, where he related his wonder¬ful story, telling them that he saw the devilsitting on a grave breaking dead bones. An oldcripple medicant, who was quartered at the manseduring the sabbath, (for the minister, contrary tothe general character of his brethren, was a verycharitable man,) hearing John tell his appalling-story, laughed at him, saying, “ if I was as able togang as you, I would soon bring the Bible.”—“ Well,” says John, “ if you will accompany me, Iwill carry you on my back, and we’ll maybe be able22, to bring the Bible atween us.” The beggar agreed,and mounted John accordingly, after he hadwrapped himself in his grey plaid. When theycame within view of the thief, John would veryfain have turned, but the beggar spurned him on,until they came within a very short distance ofhim, when he, supposing it to be his comradecoming with a sheep on his back, exclaimed, “ Isho a fat ane ?” John, whoso heart was quakingbefore, on hearing this question put to him, couldno longer resist his inclination to turn ; he threwthe old man off his back, saying, “ Be he fat or be helean, there ho is to ye,” and run what he was able.Tiie medicant, finding that he was thus left to hisown resources to appease the devil as he could,mustered all his strength ; and, strange to tell, hislegs that had refused to perform their office formany a long year before, were suddenly strength¬ened ; he soon went past John, regained the mansebefore him, and was never lame after.SOUR MILK WHOLESALE.Some time ago, the frolics of the honourableMr , made a great noise in the newspapers.The following records one of the most whimsicalacts of folly :—One morning, after having danced all night atan assembly, he sauntered out with the Marquisof leaning over his arm ; and in crossingSt. Andrew’s square, found an old rustic standingbefore the door of Dumbreck’s Hotel, with his cartfull of butter-milk barrels. He quickly concertedwith the Marquis, a scheme of fun, whereby themilk of tho old man found a very different destinyto what its owner intended. They first jumpedup in front of the cart, seized the halter, andgalloped off, leaving the poor man to follow as besthe could—then took out all the spiggots, and ingrand stylo drove along George Street, past theAssembly rooms, to the astonishment of the fashion¬ables whom they had lately left; then downFrederick Street, along Prince’s Street, and backagain to St. Andrew’s Square, all the time followedby the old milk-man, who, in the agony of hisheart, at seeing his valuable property deluging thecauseway, exhausted his whole vocabulary of ex¬clamations, in giving vent to his indignation.With his sky-blue top coat flying behind him, andhis rough-shod heels striking fire from the pave¬ment, he pursued his ravished cart, shouting asloud as his exhausted lungs would permit.—“0!ye unhanged blackguards !—ye villains!—ye de’ilsbuckies !—I’ll hae the law o’ ye, gin there be lawin Emburgh, ye vagabonds!—I’ll get ye a betterhouse than your father biggit for ye, ye rascals !—I’ll get ye clappit up as sure’s ye’re leevin’, yerampaugin Emburgh hallanshakers ! ” As soon ashe arrived at the Hotel, the Marquis delivered thereins into his hand; but blue-bonnet vowed hewould not quit him, till he had ascertained hisname, and that of his companion. Mr , puthis hand into his pocket, and drew out a piece ofpaper, which he said contained the required address,and while the old man unfolded it, our youngheroes took the opportunity to escape. The bit ofpaper turned out to be a ten pound note ; “Ah,stop, my bonnie lads,” cries the appeased milkman,I’ve something to say t’ye—will ye need ony mairmilk the morn ?”24INTELLIGENCE EXTRAORDINARY.It is reported the whole body of Sextons, or GraveDiggers, throughout the kingdom are preparing apetition to Parliament, praying that TemperanceSocieties may be put down, as any restriction laidupon the distilling of spirits would be the utterruin of them and their families ! three parts infour of those that come to their warehouses, beingobliged to the distillery for their passports thither ;not to mention, that the more they bury, the fewerthere will remain to eat; and of course, that thefree toleration and license of making, vending, anddistributing strong liquors in every part of GreatBritain, is the only remedy that can possibly ren¬der provisions cheap.DREADFUL DEED.A man in the last stage of destitution, came beforethe sitting Magistrate, at Lambeth Street, andstated that having by the operation of the newPoor Laws, been suddenly deprived of parishassistance, he was reduced to such extremity, thatif not instantly relieved he must be driven to a deedthat his soul abhorred. The worthy Magistrateinstantly ordered him five shillings from the poor-box, and after a suitable admonition against givingway to despair, asked him what dreadful deed hewould have been impelled to do, but for this season ¬able relief ; “ To work,” said the man, with a deepsigh, as ho left the office.FINIS.