theHISTORYOFFORTUNATUS.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,THE-LIVES AND ADVENTURESOFAMPEDO, AND ANDOLOCIA,His two Sons.EDINBURGH:Printed f o-t the B.jokseller.j in Town and CoantryTHEHISTORYOFFORT UN AT US.chap. r.Of F orlanaluiP Birl/i, Parentage, See.In the isle of Cyprus there is a stately city cal!e«Famagosta, where once lived one Theodoras, descended of noble parents, who left him with ;great estate; but being brought up to nothin;but pleasures, he soon wasted the greatest part ohis riches, to the great grief of all his relatl^hswho, thinking to make him leave off these coursesdetermined to match him to a rich merchant’daughter in the city of Nicovia^named -Gratiariga discreet woman, whose prudence and good huincur might be a means of bringing him to livsoberly and frugally; apd proposing it to himwith many persuasive reasons and arguments havmuch it would he fornis good, he resolved to visiher; and, after a few months courtship; they weimarried in a splendid manner, most of the princpal gentlemen of either city being at the weddimand so they lived together in-content and gre;:felicity for the space of one year, in which tintw had a son, whom they named Fdftunattfs iwhose christening an old woman, taken to beifophetess, came in and uttered these words :-—K? ' r 1iis child is fortune's darling, he shall share,jispuglrt, those riches whom she will prepare ;•/travel he his thoughts full soon will bend,lough cross’d in some, yet all shall happy end.This was noted of many, but more particularlyjjen. the success answered her prediction. As lie|w up, his father, not to be restrained by thers and entreaties of his wife, began to followformer bad courses, insomuch that he squan-Sred away all his patrimony, so that they fell intoi.rente poverty. Fortunatus being then IS years• age, and seeing rib ways to have their wantsjieyed., begged leave of his,parents to quit themthe charge he put them to, by suffering, Jiim tovei, not doubting but he could shift for himself.3 father easily consented, but his mother notthout great reluctance ; so with many tender(braces they parted. Fortunatus having theifkl to ramble iu, made to the sea: and at theit haven found a great many armed men, land-under the command of Balwin, earl of Flanders,o had put on shore to refresh him. He tookrage, and kneeling before the earl, offered him| service, and promised to be very subservienthis commands. The earl perceiving him a very: niising youth, and after inquiry into the cir-iistances of his parentage and former life, hejde him his chief servant: in which station helaved himself so well, that he gained this greatlortTs entire affection, and soiled with him ingalley to the famous city of Venice.Fortunatus, knowing the language of this ccHtry, he had orders from his lord to buy se\costly jewels, garments of velvet, and other :merchandize^ which wonderfully pleased hj1and at his return home, he was soon afterried to the duke of Clove's daughter, to who’llto the war, a §At this wedding was mknights, mounted on stwas contracted'before his goin8and beautiful lady,valiant lords and.ghts, mounted onhorses to tilt and tourney before the noblethere present. Alter they had finished theirumphs^and mortal games, thedukeof Cleves, andbride and bridegroom, agreed to let the servtry their manhood at several pastimes, for twojewels, valued ci 300 crowns, which made their Istrive one against another to do their best; so Iduke Of Burgundy’s servant won one, and Fo [natus the other. Upon this they desired the drservant to challenge Fortunatus to fight himfore all the ladies, who should have them bwhich challenge was soon accepted, and theycountered each other very briskly, till at last Jtunufus hoisted the duke s servant off his borhis spear’s length. Whereupon he won the Vcry, and obtained the jewels, which increased Ienvy of the other servants, but greatly rejolthe call.Among the earl’s servants there was a craftyfellow called Robert, who consulted'with vhthow to remove this favourite, winch they effeby this stratagem : Robert, who pretended gi|friendship to Fortunatus, went to him one dalhe was reading, and told iiini that their Lord, hav¬ing conceived a great jealousy of his chamberlains,j (of which Kortunatus was one) had ordered, thesurgeon to conic next morning to have them gel-!ded. Which, when h'ortunatus iteard, he was muchsui'prized, and therefore desired tins old fellow,iRobert, to tell him how lie might chnvey idne-eifIwith speed out of the city undiscovered. Robertobserving fids, told him lie was loath to part witiimo good a companion, but if he would go, be couldinot get out of the city till the morning, as the(gates were Shut.— Fortunatiis desired him by-all-fneans to conceal his departure, and then in great.rouble of mind he depaityd, taking his jottrney(bn horseback,CHAR. II.,i ..»i rri’,■Of the Travels if For tuna tus.gdoRTi NATUs getting away in the maiiner aforesaid,travelled with ail spee d to Calais, where lie tookhipping for England, and coming to London, heJell in company with two Cyprus merchants,'withIdiom he riotously spent all ids money, and being|i a poor'condition, void of succour, he conveyedijimself again over the sea to France, where bea rived 'i'n Ficardy, and reijojved to go forfi heii passing through a wood, and being at a lossdiich way to go, as lie gazed about, be , saw aeantiful lady ^crossing a way to whom he made up,iving, I beseech thee, 'sweet virgin, lor t< e Fover God, to assist me, so 1 may come out, of this' ood, for .these three days have I travelled wkh-lut meat. Then she demanded of l.im, what6C4u,ntrjman "Le whs ? he answered, I am of theiaie'of (Cyprus, and poverty hath constrained meto wander to seek my fortune. She said, fear not,Fortunatus, I ain the goddess Fortune; and bythe influence of the- great Disposer of all things,nre given me si^-things to stf-fh as stand in needthereof, which are wisdom, riches, strength, health,bcavfij. and icing life ; therefore choose one quick¬ly, and be prudent, for you may not choose again.Fortunatiis made no'longer stay, Jbut said, then Idesire’ rich's. With that she gave him a purse,and said, receive the same of me, and what coun¬try thou art in, as often as thou shall put thy handtherein, thou shall draw forth ten pieces of goldof the same nation's coin : and tin’s purse shall re¬tain its virtue ns long as thou livesl, and thy ownchildren during their lives.Fortunatus returned her a thousand thanks, towhich she replied, return thanks to th,e Giver ofall gdod gifts; for I am hut the hand to distributethem hs he dirhcfl, and of thy riches bestow it onthe poor arid needy. Then, setting him out of thewood, she Vanished from his sight; which madehim greatly wonder, and scarcely believe but it w asa vision, and nothing of reality in it, till coming,to an inn, hr tried the experiment, and found itotherwise : brit nis garments were so poor that thehost, till he saw his money, scrupled to let him haveany victuals.or drink; but seeing him draw out goldgo fast, the began to be sweef upon him, made him afire, and carried him into the best room, orderinghis daughter to attend him, where he staid allnight. In the morning he inquired of the host,if he could help him to some horses, who told/there was a merchant very lately arrived withe very stately ones out of Barbary, for whichiduke Xiodolplius, who irved hard by, in a stately!e, had offered 300 crowns, but it was reiused.m this he desired the host to send for the mer¬it, to bring his horses with him: which hefdingly did, though within himself he laughed■lily, seeing him so meanly clad, and knowingy were cf great price ; yet, contrary to his ex-ation, he bought the two the earl had bid tor,|fgave 400 crowns for them; then the dost:iosed him to he some nobleman in disguise,icially as he bought costly saddles and otherIfiture, end inquired for two servants. Thee hearing that Fortunatus had bought thelies out of his hand, was very angry, and senthe innkeeper to know who he was. The hostI the messenger he was a stranger in plain ha-newly come, which he at first did not thinkible of purchasing an ass. YV hereupon t lie earlf to apprehend him, suspecting him to have|1 tnitted some robbery, and notwithstanding allexcuses he could make sent him to prison, andP compelled to deliver the horses up to him,1*300 crowns, as a fine set upon him, and ob-J to depart his territories, with an oath neverdiscover what passed between them.7?CHAP. III.IIow Forlunatus travelled to the Isle of Cyprus,his Marriage, c^c.Fortunati s rejoiced that- he was so well escrand was not bereft of his precious purse; heiis own country. I»]thought of travelling toO c*country he passed through manywherein lie vieweistrangeOtiie greatest curiosities.now purchased several horses and rich apparel,several servants to attend him, he at last canVenice, and thence sailed to the isle of Cyj,Upon his arrival at Famagosta, he fchind his faand mother dead, through sorrow for their gpoverty, which much grieved himmight not be wanting in what lay in hiyet thapowerbuilt a stately monument over their grave, wisuitable epitaph.Fortmiatus thinking now to settle in Idscountry, built him a noble house at FamagOstcuriously" adorned, that the like was not in.island. He made splendid entertainments forking and queen, who highly favoured him,wondered whence lie could Le master of so ga treasure ; but he kept that a secret. At lasjjking advised him to many, in order to keepfamily that was so ancient, and promised tohis choices of the three daughters ot l ord Ninupon which, having seen and discoursed with tlhe made choice of the youngest, whose name9lassandra. The countess and earl liked Well thelatch, only they objected against him as he had') lands; which Fortunatus understanding, heirphased a lordship to settle on her jointure. The'adding was kept li'dayY with great splendour,e king, queen, nobles, and all of any note in theand, being entertained. And the first year of,iis happy marriage, his beautiful Cassandra'ought him a son, whom he named Ampedo;id the next year another, whom he namedndolocia.CHAP. IV.ow Fortvn&tus was benl to travel again ; tvhich hedid, in Egypt, Persia, India, cjv.in i uxatus having lived 12 years with his lovingfe, now began to think of travelling into otheruntriej where he had not been; which his deartssandra much opposed. But being fully resolveditravel, appeased her, promising, that he wouldIlium in a year; and so leaving her, besides IdsIjate, ten thousand crowns, in ready money, in a|ft he had hired for his own use, he departed,foivirig to turn merchant as weil as traveller.'The first port he touched at was Alexandria in';ypt, where, as the custom was, he immediatelyint to make a present to the Soldan, which he1 in such rich jewels, that that mighty princemired it, a'nd therefore entertained him veryoly, sending him in requital very rich merchan-e, and left him at liberty to traffic in the goodtigs of Egypt, above the liberty granted to otherrchaiits; so that, having richly freighted hisship, he s<jnt>ii by tlse master to Cyprus, consigto the use of pis wife ami children, resolved wten stfvgpts- to travel overland; and so takingleave of t.he >So!dan, vvli^ gave him letters of «copdiiCt ^ifected to diy.ers princes, he detented tq-pasyover the deserts of Arabia and Perand s.>yo Inflia. taking Tartary in his way, wflie liad a view,of the great Cham’s court at CatFrom whenge he travelled through a vast IaiforeViltitatf lea Is to India, where he slew a metrous tiger, that liad*cfestroyed many hundredpeople, and left the way almost unfrequentedpassengers, which was scattered with the scullsbones of those that had been devoured. This foitoot up two days and two nights travel, and ping through many countries; he came to Iniwhero the emperor Preston John reigned, whoft!! those "those countries, was the only C.hrisiprince;'; that country befog converted to the Chliar* faifli bv St Thomas the apostle. He hasder hint fig Kings, and is lord of-30 islands,sides a vast country on the continent. Jthough mpst strangers are forbid to enter thepernr’s palace, without his leave, Fprtunatusmaking large presents, spun gained admitta(ind bahelti such riches as the likehehad never mfor the walls were plated with fine silver, wl;on yvas engraved the stories of knights, and baof (p r.u rors : some rooms were hung 1pa'ithVrs’, skins, easting a fragrant smell ;■ the pithat supported! tiie roof were cedar, overlaid 1 lgoal, am!’embossed with precious stones. Fcnatus, j.nyiiig seen all lie could, obtained leathe Fmpefor to depart with 30 camels laden j11! the richest goods of the country, and having ap*[ pointed his ship-master to meet him at Alexandria,I he set out from thence.The Soldian having notice of his arrival in Egypt,Ssent divers of his officers to meet and welcome himin his name-; whom Fortunatus presented withjewels, odours, and spices, and the Soldian withmany rarities; so ,unlading his camels, he ship¬ped ail his goods, and remembring his promise tohis beloved Cassandra, lie ordered them to weigh1 anchor, resolving to sail; but the Soldian desiredJ him to partake of a banquet before he went, after'' ■which he shewed him his curiosities in his jewel-!|" house, which were such as scarcely could be foundfin the world. But while Fortunatus was admir-jj ing their richness, the Soldian unlocked a cabinetflhof gold, and pulled out of it an old hat to all ap-| pearance, saying, this is a jewel I esteem above all:l| the others, for, continued he, it lias that secret vir*I' tue in it, given by a great magician, long since.) dead,-that, put it upon your head, and wish to bef where'you will, you shall be immediately carried■thither invisibly. Fortunatus from that moment! thought with himself, if he had this to join with! his purse, they would be the two greatest advant-i ages in the world ; and said to the Soldian, sincethis hat hath such virtue, sure it must be veryheavy on his head that weareth it. Then said theSoldian, it is no heavier than another hat, where¬upon hejgave it into his hands, and bid him put iton his head : asking him if he felt otherwise.Then said Fortunatus, I did not think it had beenso light, nor supposed you would have set it on my: head ! with that he wished himself in his ship : andW"' ] . ' ' ' ' : '■immediately he flew out at the window, as swiffas lightning, and, to the amazement of the sailors1lighted on the deck, without any harm ; they the;|set aii the sdil they could, and, notwithstandin Jjjthey were pur tied, safely reached the isle of Cy|pros with his shin richly laden, to the great joy o nCassandra'and his two sons. JLFortunatus, having lived long in pleasure amiplenty, his two sons being grown to men’s matuirity, lie fell sick, and calling them to him, bestoweifihis riches on them, revealed to them the virtue ohis purse, and how it would last only for tlieilives ; he also toid them the virtue of his wishinghat So desiring them to live lovingly together, antnot to part with these jewels, or ever discover thvirtues of. them, but to use them by turns ; antin a most devout manner, recommending hisoul into the hands of his Maker, he gave up tinghost. Soon after Cassandra, through exceedinggrief, falling sick of a fever,^died, and both were bur|ied in a stately tomb he had caused to be built iihis life time, in the chancel of the new church nhad erected, having left bountifully to the poorand for other charitable uses.CHAP V.How Andolocia, tfie youngest Son7 got the fuvsejrm >Ambedo, his Brother, Qc.Foktlwatus and his dear consort were no sooner laid in their tomb, but Andolocia, the younges ,son, agreed with his elder brother, to fill four larg;colters with gold out of the purse; that he shouh'.. 13.1 have the wishijig-hat and a!l the vkible estate,| and lie only the purse to hear hira company inhis travels ; so settinor forward he came to the; court of Paris, in France, where he appeared soJispitudid in his equipage, and extravagant in hisJ expenses,- that he was wondered at by.all, whotook him for some strange prince, ^ and rather byi reason of his courage : for in the lists that werej made for entertainment, he unhorsed divers ofi,the nobility. He soon after left, the city, andf travelled for Spain, viewing all the rarities of thatI,country, and at length arrived at Madrid; therei he found them preparing for a war with Portu-| gal, and he resolved to take this opportunity,e| raised an hundred men, and preferred the king| ..his service. The'wars ending, he sailed for Eng-Jf land, where, in like manner, he assisted the king| in his wars with the Scots. And ()ne day as tiieIj;king was entertaining him at dinner, he was so^ .smitten in love with the fair princess Agrippina,| the king’s daughter, that he forgot, to eat, and. feasted, liis eyes only on her, insomuch that greatnotice was taken of it. He likewise entertain¬ed the queen and princess at a splendid dinner,and'afterwards the king, giving •liberally to the, guards and servants, so that they marvelled how' fhe, having no visible estate, could live at such arate, and were greatly desirous to know what se¬cret mine he had to carry on his grandeur to sucha height.This, by the advice of the king and queen, the..princess undertook to discover, as she, perceivedlie was deeply in love with her and in a little1 time shewed him such kindness, that he was ad-14mitted to be private with her in her chamber, |jjfavour which none before had received: and therljjbeing none hut they, he thought it was now tim|fto declare his passion ; which he did in such obiig |ing terms, that she seemed to be pleased with itonly saying, your lavishing •expenses, I fear,'wi!bring us both to poverty, should I marry willwon. He told her that could.not be, for his treasure during his life .was inexhaustible, and cotiknot be spent spend what he would. Let me knowsaid the princess, from Whence you have thesigreat riches? Ah, said he, it was my dying fdther,,s command not to discover it to any; yet s’cdearly do I love you that I can deny you nothingTo this she obliged herself, and he, drunk wifilove, thereupon showed her his purse, told he:how it was corfie-by, and all the secrets of it, letting her see it experimentally, by pulling out severa! Iiandfnls' of gold, which lie presented he:wi.th, telling her he could do so all day long, ant(every day as long as he lived. This made heiirwardly rejoice, and from that time plotted hovto get it, which she affected, under the colon:of a promise he should lie with her before marria^e, if be would swear to be true to herwlien she had rendered up to him her virgin treas:lire. But, whilst he'expected, with a inuftitudiof joy' the fruition of her delicate body, she con.trived with her woman to give him drugs in hiwindy and so drinking them lustily, he fell fast asleep. Then turning aside his coat, she took hipurse, and fastened another of the same likeness bhis girdle, but different in virtue: so that waking iithe morning, and finding him in a chair, he began to wonder what had befallen him. But justas he remembered the assignation with' 'Agrip¬pina, in came her1 woman, who told him.(in a sor¬rowful tone that the fair princess goiiffe to bed,and keeping awake in Expectation of hini/hnd hedeceiving her,1 she was risen very angry! Thismade him very blank and sorrowful'that he hadlost an opportunity which he could not reasonablyexpect again ! And so rising he went to his ownhouse, little dreaming .he had lost his treasure.By this time Agrippina had shewn the purse tothe king and queen ; and told them, the virtue of it.And now they resolved to put a trick upon An-dolocia, and accordingly the king sent to tell him,:he designed to come, with the queen and princess,to dine with him that day. The messenger hadno sooner delivered liis message, and was departed,but he called his steward and bid him immediate¬ly provide provision : but he told him, in the twolast feasts that his money was all expended, and,therefore, he must have more. Whereupon An-dolocia put his hand readily into his purse butfound nothing: when looking wishfully on it, heperceived it was changed. This made him lookblank, not knowing for a time what to saw or do.He knew the virtue of it was so rare, that those whohad it would never part with it by fair means.And s6 pretending his brother was dead, he tur¬ned of all his servants, sold all his household tur-niture, and privately getting on ship-board, he saiUed for Cyprus, telling his brother Ambedo the la¬mentable news of the loss ot the purse ; whichgreatly grieved him, and made him blame Andolo*cia for his folly, and the breach of his father’s last16• * , e•* t • f • y ' . . rcorrtmands. Ypt be relieved his wants plentifullybut he as badly rewarded him, for having got whattreaMpre could, he desired him to lend him hiswishing h£*t, but he a long time refused it, saying,that should, be his,last reserve when all his moneywas spegt., add he doubted not,-but when somegreat princty-sfrould come to kiiow the virtue of it,to get ten .'thousand pounds fpr it, and if he let himhave it. lie. would lose it foolishly as he had donethe purse. Tq this he said nothing, but one daydesiring ,to syg It, when,having it in his hand, heclapped it on his head, wishing himself at V’eniee,and he was immediately there ; leaving his broth¬er to repent his folly in the loss of his hat, as hehad done his, in the loss of his purse. Being inthis great city, he found out several Jews whowere rich jewellers,, and cheapening divers of greatvalue, grasping them fast in jiis hand and wishinghimself in England, he was immediately carriedthrough the air, to their great admiration, whoconcluded him to be no less than the devil.CHAP. VI.How Andolocia carried away Agrippina with thePurse to Ireland, <5t. •Bfuno in England, he disguised himself in thehabit of an Italian merchant, and going to court,inquired for the princess Agrippina, and beingbrought before her, he laid out his jewels, profei-ed her them fo1' sale, a!Kt i'1 a little time they a-ereed - Now' that which he looked for was the purse,out of which he supposed she would take the money.wI,for he suspected she had it, and accordingly it suc¬ceeded ; for going to a cofler and taking it out,she fastened it to her girdle : when he having hiswishing hat on, clasped her in his arms, and wish¬ing himself in a wild desart, away they flew to¬gether over sea and land till they came to a vastwilderness in Ireland ; there he set her down faintand breathless, under a tree, on which grew verycurious apples to look to. Agrippina, pasting hereyes upon them, in*reated him to pull some ofthem to quench her thirst, for she was almost rea¬dy to perish with drought. Yet he still lovingher, though she had played him such a slipperytrick, clapped unadvisedly his cap on her head tokeep off the scorching sun, as knowing she knewnot the virtue of it, so climbing up fell to gather¬ing. In the mean while she sat pensive and sad,and wishing to God she was out of that desolateplace, and in her father’s palace, ail on a sudden,contrary to her'expectations, she was carried away,leaving Andolocia to fret at his folly, and vek him¬self more than ever: so that, wandering up anddown, faint and weary, ‘at length sat down by abrook, and fell to eating his apples, when imme¬diately a grevious pain seized his head, so that hesupposed them infectious, and began to fear hislife : but on the contrary a great pair of goat’shorns sprung out of his forehead, and then thepain ceased This made him wonder at himself,and stand amazed, but as he was sad and pensive,an old hermit came to him, and seeing him a stran¬ger, and in that condition, invited him to his cave,and gave him such poor refreshment as he had,which consisted of nuts, wild apples, and roots,and his drink proceeded from a pleasant brookhard by; but Andolocia was more solicitous abouthis horns than any thing else, and intrcated thehermit if he knew any way to cure him, and hewould give him ten crowns, which was all themoney he had left; for Agrippina had carried a-way all the jewels as well as the hat; but thoughhe promised to cure him, yet he refused his mon¬ey, telling him, he had returned from the world,and the vanities of it, and money to him was use¬less ; but going abroad, he brought home six fairapples, two of which Andolocia had no sooner eat¬en, but his horns dropt of, which made him great¬ly rejoice. So the good old man bidding him giveglory to God, led him out of the forest, and atthe edge of it they parted.Andolocia having some of the hornified apples,and likewise four of the contrary quality, beganto meditate revenge on Agrippina, and so comingwith all speed to England, he got an opportunityto present them to her, us fruit grown in the ho¬ly garden of Jerusalem, to restore decayed beau¬ty and health for several years, make the agedlook young, and other wonders. But she had nosooner ate two of them, and finding a drowsiness,lying down to sleep, and dreaming she was turnedinto a goat; but awaking, she found a strange al¬teration and going to her glass, and seeing herhorns, affrighted, she startled and shrieked out,whereupon her ladies came about her, aud wereas much affrighted at the sight as she: but agrave matron, who had been her nurse, advisedthem to be silent, to prevent the disgrace thatmight follow, till Physicians were consulted, whose|ors, but uone ‘)f them would .dodertike it, onipenalty. she would impose on them, which wasI thousand crowns, if she revealed the lady’sie, and they did not cure her. But as- she wasLing back again very pensive, Andolocia, in thej of a physician, met her, and told her, by herEess, and coming from such a doctor’s house, hesed she had some dear friend in danger of life,>me other great distress which, if she would ac-jt of his services as a physician, he would, noljd>t, with the blessing of God, be able to cure her.le old woman believing him, greatly rejoiced thati had found him so opportunely; and telling himwhole matter, which he very well knew before,jiveyed him to the princess’s chamber privatelyja back door, where he found her lying on her1 very much troubled : hut she. was comfortedten he told her he was come to cure her, sobegan to make application, and gave.her so iit-of the apple among her drugs that, they only.sted byr degrees; then telling her lie wantedne costly drugs, to make them come off by theats, and so she should be more beautiful thaner. She arose and went to her coffer in theban while. Searching about the room, he founds wishing-hat carelessly thrown under the bed,r she knew- not the virtue of it, but supposedme spirit had conveyed her backward and for-ird before : by this time she called him to peceivee money’, and, drawing her toward the w indowat. lie might, as he pretended, the belter discerndrew his hat from under his coat, clapped it onhhis head, grasped her in his arms, and awayflew with her, purse and all. In this airy voyt.she was carried to Flanders, where present!himself to her in his true shape, and with a stecountenance, reproaching her with her trgaeheand inconstancy, she fell on her knees and begghis pardon. VVhereupon, taking pity or her.her request he put her into a nunnery, g:the abbes two hundred crowns for her admitance, promising to fetch her as soon as he confind a remedy to take off her horns; and so d<parted for Cyprus with his hat and purse, thsight of which greatly rejoiced Ampedu, to whoihe told all the passage of his travels ; and so o.>||'' 1 m/mm - Cytolled the beauty of Agrippina, the prince ofprus, enamoured on bare report, prevailed witthe king his father to send an embassy to desirher in marriage On this Andolacia was solidted to free her from the nunnery, which he didtaking of her horns, and carrying her through tlair to London ; and so with a noble train of lordand ladies they sailed for Cyprus, where she vvaroyally received and splendidly married.This made many of the nobles envy A'ndpldcia'especially the earls of Armundalia and Lrmoustvowed his death, who had so much eclipsed, thefhonour ; and so setting on him, and his six menas he passed one day through a wood, they, amtheir hundred attendants, after a long fight killhis men, took him prisoner, for he had riot withhim his vvishing-hat, and casting him into a darkloathsoVne dungeon, set him in the stocks, andloaded him with irons, to make him confess whencehe had those vast riches; which, through torment.01<-v i.he discovered, and gave them his purse, and theyhaving proved tlie experiment, thought themselvesnot safe whilst he was alive, because they knew hecould fly through the air, and so might escape, theyoffered the gaoler the- money to despatch him pri¬vately ; but he refusing, the earl of Armundaliastrangled him as he sat in the stocks.In the mean time, while Ampedo was inconsol¬able for the loss of his brother, having in vain of¬fered great rewards for his discovery, at lengthsupposing him dead, burnt his wishing-hat, andthrough grief died, soon after the earls were ap¬prehended and examined, who confessed the factin all its cireumstanOesi for which they were bothbroketi on tne wheel.The Fairy.There was once upon a time, a widow, who hadtwo daughters. The eldest was so much like herin the face and humour, that whoever looked uponthe daughter, saw the mother, they were both sodisagreeable and proud, that there was no livingwith them. The youngest who was the very pic¬ture of her father for courtesy and sweetness oftemper, was also one of the most beautiful girlsever seen. As peoplv generally love their ownlikeness, this mother even doted on her eldestdaughter, and at the same time, had a horrible aver¬sion for the youngest. She made her eat in thekitchen, and work continually.Among other things, this poorTgirl was forced,twice a-day, to draw water about a mile and ahalf off the house, and bring home a pitcher full32of it- One day, as she was at the fountain, thepjcame to hey q poor woman, who begged of her tolet her drink. “ O ay, with all my heart, Goody,”said this pretty little girl, and rinsing immediatelythe pitcher, she took some water from the clearestpart of the fountain, and gave it to her, holding upthe pitcher all the while, that she might drink theeasier. ■'The good woman having drank, said to her“ You are so very pretty, my dear, so good, and somannerly, that I cannot help giving you a gift,(for this was a Fairy, who had taken the form ofa poor country woman, to see how far the civilityand good manners of this pretty girt would go.)I will give you for gift, (continued the Fairy) thatat every word you speak, there shall come out ofyour mouth either a flower or a jewel.”When this pretty girl came home, her motherscolded at her for staving so long at the fountain.“ 1 beg your pardon, mamma, said the poor girl,for not making mpre baste and in speaking thesewords, there came out of her mouth two roses, twopearls, and two diamonds. What is it I see there?said her mother, quite astonished, 1 think I seepearls and diamonds come out of the girls mouth.How happy is'this child ! ^This was the first time,ever she called her child.The poor creature told her frankly all the matter,not without dropping out infinite numbers of dia¬monds. “ In good faith, cried the mother, I willsend my child hither. Come hither, Fanny, lookwhat comes out of your sister’s month, when shespeaks, wouldst not thou be glad, my dear, to havethe same gift given Unto thee, thou hast nothingr23e >to do but go and draw water out of the fount-i, and when a certain poor woman asks you to: her drink, to give it to her very civilly. Itpuld be a very fine sight indeed, said this ill-bred"nx, to see me go draw water. You shall go,issy, said the mother, and this minute. So a-uy she went, but grumbling all the way, takingith her the best-silver tankard in the house.: She was no sooner at the fountain, than she sawuning out of the wood, a lady most gloriouslyessed, who came up to her, and asked to drink,jjhis was, you must know, the very fairy who ap-Jpared to her sister ; but had now taken the airlid dress of a princess, to see how far this girl’sitideness would go. ‘ Am I come hither, said thefrond saucy slut, to serve you with water, pray?I suppose the silver tankard was brought purelyii>r your ladyship: was it ? However, you maym ink of it if you have a fancy.”ii “ You are not over and above mannerly,” an-iwered the fairy, without putting herself into aPassion : “ Well then, since you have no breeding,ijnd are so very disobliging, I give you for gift,that|t every word you speak, there shall come out of!our moftth a snake or a toad.’’ So soon as hermther saw her coming, she cried out, “ Well,aughtcr.” “ Well mother,” answered the pertI ussy, throwing out of her mouth two vipers andwo toads. <k O mercy!” cried the mother,jc what is it I see! O, it is that wretch her sister,who has occasioned ail this; but she shall pay forIt:” and immediately she ran to beat her. Theboor child fled away from her, and went to hide| erself in the forest not far from thence.— The24king’s son then, on his return from hunting, m»her, and seeing her very pretty, asked her, • Winshe did there alone, and why she cried?1 ‘AlaSir, my mamma has turned me out of doors.1 T11king’s son, who saw five or six pearls, and as m;ny diamonds come out of her mouth, desired h*to tell him howr that happened. She thereupc’ Itold him the whole story ; and so the king’s sofell in love with her, and considering with himself that such a gift was worth more than anmarriage-portion whatsoever in another, conduCited her to the palace of the king his father, anithere married her.As for her sister, she made herself so much htted, that her own mother turned her off; and thmiserable wretch, having wandered about a goo;while, without finding any body to take her itwent to a corner in the wood, and there died.