The Bonny LafsOFCALDEPv BRAES,To ivbicb are added.The Snug Little Iflanci,Jenny’s Bawbee,ANDQ Mary of Scotland’sl'are\\el to Calais.* cte-irA) Printtflinjhc Tear 1820,theBONN'Y LASS OF CALDER BRAES,[ T un e— Logan Water. ]When cares were few and life was young,On Calde’-braes I danc’-d and fung,Unpain’d by keen remorfe’s dart,J »y flow’d fpontaneous from my heart;To crown the happy mundane fcene,I lov’d—nor did I love in vain;The theme of all my enlefs laysWas my dear lafs of Calder-braes.Thrice happv days, your lofs I mourn.You’re gone—ah ! never to returnsAmbition’* ignis fatu's glareTransform’d iny bill's to black defpair!The pomp of war, and pride of arms,Appear’d with fuch refiillefs charms,I left to face mv country’s faes;2vly weeping maid on Calder braes.\In martial confhft firit I (hone.In clirre* below' the burning zone;Beneath Seringapa'am’s wallI law the tyrant Sultan’s fall;Amidft the carnage of the dav.Where dead and dying rout'd me lay'.’Midll cannons’ roar, and lightning’s Mate,I thought on peaceful Laider-.brats.With laurels crown’d, with wealth array’d.Again I fought try native (hade,In hope* my long loll love to meet,To lay my laurel* at her feet;Ala* ! I never faw her more!My fanguine dreams of blit* are o’er:My only pleafure’s now to guzeOn her lov’d grave on Calder-btaes: —THE SNUG LIT FLE ISLAND.Daddy Neptune one day to Freedom did fay.If ever I liv’d upon dry land,Thelpotlfliouldhii on, would be little Britain.Say* {freedom, Why.that’s my ownilland.O what a fnug little Iflanti!A right little, tight littie illand:All the globe round, none can be foundSo happy a* this littie iHand.Julias Cseiar, the Roman, who yielded tono man,Came by water, he couid’rt come by land;And Dane, Pift and >axon, their homea turn’dtheir backs on^And all for the lake cf our illand.(•4)O v.hat a fnug little Kiand!They’d all have a touch at the KlandSome were (liot dead, iome of them fled,And fome Hay’d to live in the liland.Then a very great war-man, call’d Billy,the Norman,Gry’d. Dunn it, 1 never liked my land*It would be much more handy to leavethis Normandy,And live on yon beautiful Kiand.Say* he, ’Tis a fnug little Illand;Shan’t us go vifn the Ifland fHop, fktp and jump, there he was plump,And he kick’d up a dull in the Itland.Yet party deceit help’d the Norman* to beat,Of traitors they manag’d to buy land;By Dane. Saxon,orPt£l,\vene’erhadbeenlick’d. Had they fluck to the King of the Illami. tPoor Harold, the King of the Ifland,He loll both his life and hi* Ifland;That's very true—what could he do?Like a briton he died for hi* Ifbnd.Then the Spanifh Armada fet out to invade a\Quite Cure, if they ever came nigh land,The cou’dn’t do no lefs than tuck upQueen tlels,And taxc their fui\ fwing in the Ifbnd’rO the poor Queen of the liland!The Don* came to plunder the L?land{But, fhug'in her hive, the Queen wa* aliveiAnd bu4 wa* the vyptd the iiland.Thefe proud puff’d-up cake*, thought to makeduck* a •! drake*Of our wealth, bat they fcarceiy couldfny land,Ere our Drake had the luck to make theirpride duck,And (loop to the lad* of the liland.Huz a, for the lad* of the Ifland!The good wooden wall* of the I (land!Devil or Don, let ’em corns on.But how would they come off at the Illand ?I don’t wonder much, that the French andthe Dutch,Have fince been oft tempted to try land:I Wohler much lef* they have met no fuccef*.For why (hould we give up our liiand?O ’tis a wonderful Kland lAll of ’em long for the liland :Hold a bit thete—let ’em take fire and air#t5ut we’ll have the lea and the Kland., ;• on.". r'! ^Then fmee Fraedom and Neptune have hs?thertc- kept tunc.Fa each laying, i lu* iha.l be my landt-Should the army of England, or all they couldbring, land.We’d (hew ’em i'otne play for the llland.We’d fight for our right rc the Ifland,We’d give ’em enough of the llland ;Frenchmen Ihould jull—bite at our duft,Hut not a bit more of the llland'.JENNY’S BAWBEE.I met four chap* von hirk* amang,Wi’ hanging lug and faces lang.I fpeer’d at niebour Baldv Strang,What are they thefe we fee?Quoth he Ilk cream-fac’d pawky chiel,Thinks himfell cunning as the de'il,And here thev cam a . a to IlealJenny’s bawbee.The firfl, a Captain to his trade,Wi’ ill lin’d tcull, and back well clad,March’d roun’ the barn, ai d bye the Hied,And papped on his knee:Qjoth he. My bonny nymph and queen,Your beauty’s dazzl’d baiih rr.y centBut feint a beauty he had feenBut Jenny’s bawbee.(?)A noflan’ Laird neift trotted ap,Wi’ baflen’d na», and fiUef whip.Cry’d. Here’i my beall lad. had iheOr tie him to a tree;What’* goud to me. I’ve wealth o’ latf'iBellow on ane o’ worth your han’.He thought to pay what he was awnWi’ Jenny's bawbee.A lawyer nieft wi' blatherin’ gab,Wi' fpeeches 'ove like ony web;In ilk ane* corn he took a dab,An’ a’ for a fee :Accounts he ow’d thro’ a’ the town.And tradefmen’* tongues r.ae n air cou’ddrov. BBut now he thought to clout his gownWi’ Jenny’s bawbee.• • ^ A. »Quite fpruce, juft frae the w alhing tub»,A fool came neift, but life ha» rubs,Foul were the roads, and fu’ the tyubi,And fair beliriear'd v as he :He danc'd up, rquimin’ ’hro’ a glafs,A-d grinn'ti—1 faith, a bonny lafs ■> l'i'He thought to win wi’ from o’ braf?,And Jenny’s bawbee.V’ , - .. , i rt . ■ Vi. f ., l. - - -  * *'■ 4 J !-• JlL'i / 4She bade the laird gae kaim his wig,The foldier not to ftrut lae big.( 8 ) '"i kenM that I cou’d never fail;Hat the prin’d the difh-clont to his faij,And cool'd him wi’ a water-pail,And kept her bawbee.Then Johfiy cam’, a lad 6’ fenfe,A Mi o’ he had na mony pence,’He took -young Jenny to the fpence,Wi’ her to crack a wee :Now JohjiV was a clever chid,And her'e his fuir he prefs’d fae wed,Thai Jenh^’s heart gi-ew faft as jeel,And flic b'ifl’d her bawbee. o MARY, QUERN OF SCOTLAND’*Farewel to Calais.fARE well, fweet feat of innocence & mirth,Where drft my bread to youthful joysheat true:€> France ! thou deared region of the 6anhfAnd lou, my.early blif^ful days, adieu!The bark that feems to bear me thus away.Yet cc^rs of me, poor exile, but a part;In thy lov’d haunts, ■where I as wont to dray,I’ve left the prime affcdion* of my heart.Thefe dill are thine, no,r am I quite bereft,If but wiiH thefe thy fodcring imile s agree;F.n- ili.1 rec,uTi jiig to its pledges left.My ij mpatihzing foul (hall tend to thee.F 1 N 1 S.