THECHILD’S ASSISTANT,BYALEXANDER BARRIE,AUTHOR OF THE ENGLISH COLLECTION, SCHOOLDICTIONARY, TYRo’s GUIDE, &C. &C.A NEW EDITION.Let all the Foreign Tongues alone.Till you can read and spell your awn.GLASGOW:PUBLISHED BY F. ORR AND SONS1HUCCCXXXIX.OF SCOTLAND rJa l> c d e f gh I j k 1 m 9io ]» <j r f s tw v w x y zA B C D E F GHI J K E M IVOP a R S T UV WX YZ3Out of the Common Order.a s w x k z e cov x i j m u 11 hbtlpqfflrtg’BKX R CGE F IJUHNZSAVYO QMWLTDPVOWELS.a e i o uand sometimes w and yb—ci h—qA 24abcdefghijklmnopqrstuywxyz  \Lesson I.Ba be bica ce cida de difa fe figa ge gjha he hija Je jika ke kila le lima me mina ne nipa pe pira re risa se sita te tiva ve viya ye yibo bu byco cu cydo du dyfo fu fygo gu gyho hu hyj° ju jyko ku kylo lu lymo mu myno nu nypo pu pyro ru ryso su syto tu tyvo vu vyyo yuII.cadafagahajakalamanaparacedefegeheJekelemeneperese11—difigihi• •J1kiliminiPirisitin-fogoho jukolonoporosotoVOguhukulumumo nupurusutuvuyuhyjykyiymynypyrygytyvybyzyf—ffff f5 fi f i5 m f f i, fl f 1? fflf f 1.Bla blebra breIII.bli biobri broblu blybru bry6chaclaeradraflafraglagraknaphaplapraquaseashaskaslasmasnaspastaswatliatrawraekecleeredreflefreglegreknephepieprequeseesheskeslesmesuespesteswethetrewrechiclicridriflifrigligrikniphipHpriquiscishiskislismisnispistiswithitriwrichoclocrodroflofroglogroknophoploproquoSCOshoskoslosmosnospostoswothotrowrochu chyclu clycm crydm dryflu flyfru fryglu glygru gryknu knyphu phyplu plypru pryscushuskuslusmusnuspustuswuthutruwruscyshyskyslysmysnyspystyswythytrywry7IV. Short sound of a.] Bad dadgad lad mad pad sad, ban can fanman pan ran tan van, bat cat fatgat hat mat pat rat sat vat, lax taxwax, bag cag fag gag hag lag nagrag sag tag wag, cab dab nab, gaphap lap map nap pap rap sap tap.V. My son, do ill to no man, anddo not. go in the way of bad men;for bad men go on in sin all the day.VI. Long sound of a.] Bake cakefake lake make rake sake takewake, cage gage mage page ragesage wage, bale dale gale hale malepale sale vale, cape gape nape rapetape, bane cane fane lane manepane sane, bare care dare fare haremare nare pare rare tare ware, laceface mace pace race, bate date fatemade vade, came fame game lame,name, cave gave nave, maze razeVII. Let me not go in an illway ; but go far out of it. Let illmen be far out of my way, and let8my joy be in thy law, 0 God, allthe day.VIII. Short and long sound of e.]Bed bred fed fled led ped red shedsped wed, beg1 egg leg, peg, bell cell |dell ell fell sell tell well, bet fret jetlet met net pet set wet, ebb nebweb, jest lest pest rest test vest westzest, den fen hen ken men pen ten,sex vex.—Be he me she we ye, cerehere mere sere, eke, eve reve, eves,these, glebe, glede, rede, mete, theme,scene.IX. Do not an ill act, thoughone bid you do it. To do an illact, is to go out of the way of God.Sit not by an ill boy, to see him doill, but go far out of his way.X. Short soitnd of i.] Bib nibrib, bid, did hid kid mid, big digfig jig pig wig, bill chill drill fill til]will, chin din fin gin grin bin innkin pin sin skin spin tin, bit fit hitkit nit sit, bliss hiss kiss miss, chip9clip dip nip pip ship skip slip striptip trip whip.XI. My son, do what is just, andlet no ill be in thy mind. Shunthem who will hurt thee, and donot hur* them. My child, go notin a bad way; but hold fast thelaw of the Lord. Wait on theLord, and he will help thee ; prayto him that he may lead thee, andmake thee to know what is good.XII. Long sound of \J\ Bice dicemice nice price thrice twice vice,hide pride ride side tide, mile smile■ stile tile vile wile, bind find kindmind, bright fight light might nightsight, tight wight, lithe sithe tithe,bribe scribe tribe, dine fine linemine nine pine vine wine, childmild wild, crime lime prime time,dike like pike, dire fire hire miretire, dive drive five hive rive strive,pipe ripe stripe wipe, high nigh sighthigh, knife life rife wife.a S10XIII. My son, mind not thineown will, but mind the will of God ;for thy will may lead thee a badway, but his will leads in the waythat is good. Bad men do not lovewhat is good: and if you do notlove what is good, you Avill not bea good child. If you love what isgood, all good men will be sure tolove you.XIV. Short sound of o.] Blockclock cock Hock frock knock lockmock nock rock shock smock' sockstock, blot clot cot dot got hot jotsot spot trot wot, blotch potchscotch, bob lob mob rob sob throb,bog clog dog flog fogbond fond pond yondmoss soss toss, box fox pox, cropdrop lop mop pop prop shop slopsop stop top, clod cod nod plod rodshod sod trod, song strong thong.XV. The word of God is pure,his law is just, his might is great.frog hog log,, dross nloss11and his love has no bounds : so youmust hear his word, mind his law,and fear and love him with all yourheart. God is most high ; the LordGod is King of kings and Lord oflords; yet he loves, and will givehelp to all those who seek him intruth.XVI. Long sound of o.] Lorefore more score shore snore soreI store tore, blote dote flote mote noterote shote smote vote, bode moderode, hold cold fold hold old scoldsold told, bole mole pole sole stole,boll droll poll roll toll, bolt coltjolt, hone drone lone prone stonethrone, horn shorn torn worn, bothsloth, choke coke joke, prose rosethose, drove grove rove, pope ropescope slope, dome home.XVII. By the care you nowtake to learn, you will gain fame,wealth, and peace, when you growup. Then be sure to make the12best use of your time. When youare young, take care to walk in theway in which you should go, thatwhen you are old, you may not gofrom it. The most wise man thate'er was on the earth, said, Trainup a child in the way he should go,and when he is old, he will not gofrom it.XVIII. Short and long soundof u and y.] Bub club cub drubgrub rub scrub shrub tub, bud cudmud scud, bug drug dug jug mugplug snug, bun dun gun nun runshun stun sun tun, but cut hut nutshut, cull dull lull null skull, cuppup sup tup. Flute lute mute,cube, tube, cure dure lure pure sure,duke luke puke, fume plume spume,fuse muse, huge, June lune tune,mule pule yule. Hym hymn,nymph, lynx pyx, syb. By crydry fly fry ply shy sky sly spy thytry why wry, chyle style, gyre lyretyre, tyke, type..3ViXIX. The Ass, the Ape, and theUlole.The Ass found fault that he hadno horns, and the Ape that he hadno tail: Hold your peace, says theMole, and say no more, for you areboth blest with eyes, which I amnot.DIPHTHONGS.XX. Of ai, aw, and ay.] Airchair fair hair pair stair lair, ailbail, fail, flail frail snail hail jailmail nail sail tail trail rail vail wail,aim claim maim, aid braid maidpaid staid, bait blait plait straittrait wait, praise raise, brain chaindrain fain gain grain main painplain rain slain stain strain swaintrain twain vain wain, faint paintplaint saint. Awe chaw claw crawdraw flaw gnaw jaw law maw pawraw saw scraw shaw spaw straw14thaw, awl bawl brawl crawl spawl,yawl, brawn dawn drawn fawnlawn pawn spawn yawn. Bay brayclay day dray fay fray gay gray hayjay lay may nay pay play ray sayslay spay spray stay stray swaytray way.XXI. The Crow and Jug.A Crow that was dry sought whereto quench her Thirst, and at lastfound a Jug with some Drink in it;but the neck was so long and strait,that she could not get her head in :then she thinks with herself what todo ; and at last says she, If I do butfill the Jug with stones, the drinkwill then rise up to the brim: soto work she goes, and puts in Stones,till the drink rose np to the top,and then drank her fill.XXII. Of ea.] Beach breacheach peach preach reach teach,bead knead lead mead plead read,beak bleak creak leak meak sneak,15speak tweak weak, beal deal healmeal neal peal seal steal veal zeal,beam cream dream fleam gleamream scream seam steam streamteam, bean clean lean glean meansean wean, beast east feast least,beat bleat treat, cheap heap leapneap reap, blear clear dear drearear fear hear near rear shear searsmear spear tear year, cleave heaveleave reave weave, flea lea pea pleasea tea, leaf neaf sheaf.XXIII. The Two Frogs.On a hot dry time of the Year,when the Lakes and Ponds weredried op, an old and young Frogwent in search of some Drink toquench their Thirst. At last theycame to a deep Well, and sat onthe brink of it. Sir, said the youngFrog to the old one, I have agreat Mind to leap into it. See howclear the Spring is: We may drinkof it at our ease. All this may be16true, said the old Frog-, and yet Ican not be of your Mind for ray life:For if this Well should dry up too,how should we get out of it ?XXIV. Of ee and ew.] Bee feeflee free glee knee see thee threeree tree wee, beech leech speechscreech, been green keen seen spleen,beer cheer deex*, feet fleet greetmeet sheet sleet street sweet, bleedbreed creed deed feed heed meedneed reed seed speed steed weed,cheeze breeze freeze greeze sneeze,cheek creek leek meek seek week,creep weep, deem seem, eel feelheel reel steel. Blew chew clewdew few flew hew knew mew newpew slew spew stew yew.XXV. The Man icho called forDeath.A Poor Old Man that was forcedto go to the Wood to fetch homeSticks, to make a Fire to dress hisFood and warm himself, tired with17his Load, threw; it off his back, andcall’d out to Death to come andease him: The grim King came,arm’d with his Dart and Scythe,and ask’d him what he call’d himfor ? At which the old Man says ina Fright, I want you to help me upwith my Load.XXVI. Of oa, oi, and oo.] Bloatboat coat float gloat goat moatscoat stoat throat troat, boar gloarhoar oar roar soar, board hoardboast coast roast toast, broachcoach roach, cloak croak oak soak,coal goal foal shoal, coarse hoarse,foam loam roam, load road toad,groan loan moan roan, loaf, loathoath.—Boil broil coil foil moil oilsoil spoil toil, choice voice, coingroin join loin, noise poise, void.—Bloom boom broom, poor, boosechoose noose, boot hoot moot rootshoot, brood food mood rood, cooloo too woo, cool fool pool school..18XXVII.The Lord, who made the Ear of Man,Must needs hear all of right;He made the Eye, all things must thenBe plain in his clear sight.O Lord, that man is safe and sure,Whom thou dost keep in Awe;And, that his life may be most pure,Dost guide him in thy Law:For he shall live in Peace and Rest,He fears not at his Death ;Love fills his Heart, and hope his Breast,With joy he yields his breath.XXVIII. Of ou and ow.] Flouncefrounce ounce pounce, boundfound ground hound pound roundsound, bout clout drought goutout rout scout shout spout sproutstout trout, cloud loud proudshroud, couch pouch vouch, countfount mount, hour our scour sour.Blow bow crow flow grow knowlow owe row show flow snow sowstow strow throw tow trow, prowl319strowl throw!, flown grown ownshown sown.—Bow brow cow glowhow now sow vow, cowl fowl growlhowl owl scowl, brown, blown crowndown drown frown gown lown town.XXIX. A Collection of Nouns.Boots coats shoes hat wig skirtstock sleeve shirts hag club curlcap gown robe stays shift glovehood clock lawn lace crape silkgauze serge—Hall press vault wallroof slate tile sash pane door lockkey bolt hinge floor beam joist stairstep hearth rails pump well yard—Chair stool bench bed sheetschest trunk box desk grate fire coalwood tongs pot pan dish cup platemug jug spit tub jack brush broomknives forks spoons tray clock printmop bass mat—Bear wolf fox bullcow calf horse mare colt boar sowhog pig dog cat mouse rat sheepram lamb ewe goat deer fawn staghind hart roe buck doe hound hare20ape—Hawk kite stork owl crowcrane dove cock hen drake duckgoose swan lark thrush wren antbee drone wasp fly gnat toad frogsnake worm mite moth mole—Fishwhale shark cod trout eel carp spratperch roach—Flesh blood honeskin hair head brain skull brow earface eye cheek nose mouth liptongue tooth gums jaws chin neckthroat lungs heart arm hand thumbnail joint list wrist back breast limbknee leg shin foot toe sole vein—Bread cheese beef veal lamb porkham fowls pie tart bun steak soupbroth sauce salt milk cream curdswhey tea beer ale punch wine rumgin shrub port—School seat bookpen ink square knife wax.XXX. The Lord God mademan at first in a state of bliss; butthrough sin, he fell from that stateto a state of sin and death. But,Christ our Lord came down fromon high, to save men from sin andJ213death. His birth was mean andlow, his life meek and free frompride; his laws gave light to theworld, and by him we may all hopeto live in bliss and joy, when thisworld comes to an end. O Lord,let me be found of thee in peace,in that day, when thou shalt comein the clouds, to judge both thequick and dead.XXXI. Of Two Syllables.Divine lawyer writer doctor sur¬geon merchant banker grocer drap¬er hatter farmer ploughman shep¬herd weaver tanner mason builderturner joiner goldsmith blacksmithcarver guilder painter limner cutlermiller baker butcher tailor gloverbarber vintner captain major en¬sign serjeant drummer fifer soldiersailor pilot purser steward armynavy dragoons marines.XXXII. My good child, whenyou are in school, sit on your seat,22and make no noise. To make noise,would be to break the rules of theschool. Let not the time you are inschool he spent in play and talk,but mind what is said to you; andwhen you go out, do not go withboys or girls who will curse, swear,tell lies, and do had things.XXXIII. God doth know andsee all that we do, and though theplace where he dwells be far onhigh; yet doth he look down on ushere, in this low world, and see allthe ways of the frail sons of men.I will praise thy name, O God, forthou hast laid help on one who cansave me, that is Christ the Lord.He took on him the form of a man,and did live a good life in the world,and he did preach good things tous, and of the world to come.XXXIV. You must he sure tokeep the Lord’s day, and not toplay on it in the streets nor in the233house. But when you come fromchurch, you must read some goodbook ; and if you cannot read yourself, you must hear your friendsread, and they will teach you thelaws of God and those things thatmake for your peace. You mustgive good heed to what they say,lest these good things he hid fromyour eyes.XXXV. Be wise, then, my child,for your self, and lay up what yourfriends say to you in your heart;flee from all ill, hate vice, love theLord with all your heart, that youmay have peace in this world, andbe for a crown of joy to your friendsin the next. And as you can not doall things that are right in God’ssight, of your self, you must ask ofGod, to give you grace to help youin the time of need, and to weanyour heart from the joys of thisworld, and all that is in it.24XXXVI. On Reading the Holy ScripturesWhen I do learn thy word to read,Teach me, O Lord, to pray,That from thy laws, like the lost sheep,I may not err or stray.Then join my heart to such as chooseIn thy pure paths to tread,And by thy words, and grace, and hand,To all that’s good are led.With these I’ll sing, and bless thy name,And all my time will spend;With these I hope to live and dwell:With these my days to end.’Tis by thy grace that I must seeWhat’s right and fit to do;For of myself I’m weak and blind,And know not false from true.So, by thy grace, what thou dost bid,I’ll strive to do the same ;Bid what thou wilt, but grant me grace,And I will praise thy name.Our King now reigns in bliss on high,O may our souls up to him fly;And with him dwrell in that blest place,Where each good child might see his face.THE END.