CHEAP TRACTS, K'o. 13.(Second Ed tion.)DEPLORABLE EFFECTS OFoeathenAS MANIFESTED BYThe Natives of Hindoostau,1NTPilgrimages to their Idols—Burning of Widows,Treatment of Women,—•Murdering their Female Children, &c.The dark' places of the caith are full of horrid cruelty.DUNFERMLINEPRINTED AND SOLD BY JOHN MILLER,1S2S.Heathen Superstition.1 < f !,„•Britain, doubtless, holds a high and distin- !guished place among the nations, as to the civilrights its Inhabitants enjoy; and when wefurther consider her state as to Religion, asbeing a land on which the Sun of Righteous- iness has long shined, and where its divineeffulgence is enjoyed, and in a great degree ap¬preciated—this distinction is still more remarkable.These high privileges, however, from the verycircumstance of their undisturbed and abundantenjoyment, we are very apt not to value accor¬ding to their immense importance ; and there isnothing so much calculated to make us feel theimportance of these privileges, than making acomparison of our circumstances with the state ofthose who have not enjcyed the benign influence ofChristianity ;—where gross darkness covers thepeople, and whose habitations are the abodes of!horrid cruelty ;—having no hope, and withoutGod in the world. On such a contrast wecannot fail to be made more sensible of the bene- Ifits we enjoy, and more grateful to the GreatDisposer of events, for casting our lot in thesehighly favoured lands.3When, for instance, we turn our attention tothe East, and contemplate the degraded state ofthat portion of the human race who inhabit thecountry of Hindoostan, where upwards of onehundred millions of our fellow creatures,under the influence of a most debasing and cruelsuperstition, in a land which has been charac¬terised as full of dead idols, heathen temples,priests innumerable, are practising abominableidolatries; their God a log of wood, or a mon¬key ; no Saviour but the Ganges. Amongthese idolaters no bibles are found; no sabbaths;no congregation for religious instruction in anyform ; no house for God. Under the influenceof this awful fanaticism they undertake long pil¬grimages to their favourite idol, frequently leavingthe miserable remains of hundreds to feed thejackal's and vultures. Under this influence, too,natural affection is extinguished, and the son isbut too often the instrument in kindling the fuelwhich is to consume his living mother with theremains of her deceased husband. Instigatedby the demon of superstition, mothers have beenseen casting their living offspring amongst anumber of alligators, and standing to gaze atthese monsters quarrelling for their prey, behold¬ing the writhing infant in the jaws of the suc¬cessful animal, and standing motionless while itwas breaking the bones and sucking the bloodof the poor innocent. How much, in such aninstance, is the affecting language of Scriptureoutraged ; “ Can a woman forget her suckingchild, that she should not have compassion on4the infant of her womb ?” Yes ; while we seethe cow butting with her horns, and threateningthe person who dares to approach her young,we see woman in India, (at Saugur Island,)throwing her living child in the outstretched jawsof the alligator !# At that awful and affectingmoment, too, when body and soul are parting—and when those under the influence of our be¬nevolent religion, are paying every attentionwhich affection can suggest, to soothe the pangsof death, at such a time the Hindoo is hurriedto the side of the Ganges, or some other sacredriver, where he is laid, in the agonies of death,exposed to the burning sun by day, and to thedews and cold by night ; he is laid on the earth,and there immersed up to the middle in thestream, while his relations stand round torment¬ing him, in these his last moments, with super¬stitious rites, and increasing a hundredfold thepangs of death.But if Christianity has greatly conduced toraise the moral character of ./Man—it has in avery great degree retrieved that of woman fromthe degraded state in which heathenism placesher; and in no country is their situation moredebased than in Hindostan. The anxiety ofthe Hindoo to obtain a son, who may presentthe funeral offerings, upon which he supposes hisfuture happiness to depend, and the expensesattending the support and marriage of girls,makes the birth ofa female an unwelcome event j*See Ward’s Farewell Letters.5hetiee tlie sox in India come into tlie worldfrowned upon by their parents and relations.Indeed in one of the Hindoo tribes, that of therajpoots, it is customary to destroy every fe¬male when born, and the parents, it is believed,are the murderers, and now not one female childsurvives. The boys marry in the tribe next inrank to them.To the Hindoo female all education is deniedby the positive injunction of their Scriptures,and by the general voice of the population.With female domestic employment they have aslittle to do as with learning, and the Hindoogirl therefore spends the first ten years of her lifein perfect idleness, in the house of her father.Supposing her to. be married she remains a pri¬soner and a slave in the house of her husband.They know nothing of the advantages of liberalintercourse with mankind, the females are treat¬ed in that, as if they were not rational beings,and are consequently the willing victims of su¬perstition and vice.Ye Christian Women ! what has the benigninfluence of the Gospel done for you. It callsupon you, in a special manner, to exert all yoursympathies in behalf of yoor sisterhood in hea¬then lands. And you have many opportunitiesof doing them good, by contributing of yoursubstance. Many Societies exist who will bethe means of conveying your bounty to thosewho are labouring in this good work, and whoby the blessing of God upon their efforts, havedone much in emancipating these victims of Su-Gperstition from tlie thraldom of Satan. Of thefifty languages spoken in India, twenty-five havebeeii acquired by the missionaries. Six hund¬red Hindoos have renounced their gods ; fiftyhave become missionaries. Schools for childrenare earnestly solicited from the missionaries ;and, moreover, the govern04001 of the country isnow countenancing and aiding the labour ofthe missionaries.HORRORS OF IDOL WORSHIP.TOUR TO THE TEMPLE OF JUGGERNAUT, IN'THE YEAR 1826.We know that we are approaching Jugger¬naut, and yet we are more than fifty miles fromit, by the human bones which we have seen forsome days strewed by the road. At this placewe have been joined by several large bodies ofpilgrims, perhaps ‘2000 in number, who havecome from various parts of Northern India.Some of them with whom I have conversed,say that they have been two months on theirmarch, travelling slowly in the hottest season ofthe year, with their wives and children. Someold persons are among them, who wish to die atJuggernaut. Numbers of pilgrims die on theroad ; and their bodies generally remain un-buried. On the plain by the river, near thepilgrims’ Caravansera at this place, there areI7more than a hundred skulls. The dogs, jack¬als, and vultures seem to live here on humanprey. The vultures exhibit a shocking tameness.The obscene animals will not leave the bodysometimes till we come close to them. ThisBuddruck is a horrid place. Wherever 1 turnmy eyes I meet death in some shape or other.Surely Juggernaut cannot be worse thanBuddruck.Many thousands of pilgrims have accompa¬nied us for some days past. They cover theroad before and behind as far as the eye can reach.At nine o’clock this morning, the Temple ofJuggernaut appeared in view at a great distance.When the multitude first saw it, they gave ashout, and fell to the ground and worshipped.I have heard nothing to-day but shouts and ac¬clamations by the successive bodies of pilgrims.I From the place where I now stand I have aview of a host of people like an army, encampedat the outer gate of juggernaut, where a guardof soldiers is posted to prevent their entering thetown, until they have paid the pilgrim’s tax.—Ipassed a devotee to-day who laid himself downat every step, measuring the road to Juggernautby the length of his body, as a penance of meritto please the god.A disaster has just occurred—As I approach¬ed the gate, the pilgrims crowded from all quar¬ters around me, and shouted, as they usually didwhen I passed them on the road, an expressionof welcome and repesct. I was a little alarmedat their number, and looked round for my guard.8A guard of soldiers bad accompanied me fromCuttack, the last military station ; but they werenow a quarter of a mile behind, with my ser¬vants and the baggage. The pilgrims cried outthat they were entitled to some indulgence, thatthey were poor, they could not pay the tax ; butI was not aware of their design. At this mo¬ment, when I was within a few yards of thegate, an old Sanyassee (or holy man,) who hadtravelled some days by the side of my horse,came up and said, ‘Sir, you are in danger ; thepeople are to rush through the gate when it isopened for you. I immediately dismounted,and endeavoured to escape* to one side ; but itwas too late. The mob was now in motion,and with a tumultuous shout pressed violentlytowards the gate. 1 he guard within, seeingmy danger, opened it, and the multitude rushingthrough, carried me forward in the torrent a con¬siderable space : so that I was literally borneinto Juggernaut by the Hindoos themselves.A distressing scene followed. As the numberand stre»gth of the mob increased, the narrowway was choaked up by the mass of people ; andI apprehended that many of them would havebeen suffocated, or bruised to death. My horsewas yet among them. But suddenly one of theside posts of the gate, which was of wood, gaveway and fell to the grou d. And perhaps thiscircumstance alone prevented the loss of lives.Notice of the event was immediately communi¬cated to the superintendant of the people, whorepaired to the spot, and sent an additional guard9to the inner gate, lest the people should forcethat also ; for there is an outer and inner gateto the town of Juggernaut; but they are bothslightly constructed. Mr Hunter told me thatsimilar accidents sometimes occur, and that manyhave been crushed to death by the pressure ofthe mob. He added, that sometimes a body ofpilgrims, (consisting chiefly of women and chil¬dren and old men,) trusting to the physicalweight of their mass, will make, what he called,a charge on the armed guards, and overwhelmthem ; the guards not being willing, in suchcircumstances, to oppose their bayonets.DESCRIPTION OF THE TEMPLE.I have seen Juggernaut. The scene at Bud-druck is but the vestibule to Juggernaut. Norecord of ancient or modern history can give, Ithink, an adequate idea of this valley of death ;it may be truly compared with the valley ofHinnom. The idol called Juggernaut, has beenconsidered as the Moloch of the present age ;and he is justly so named, for the sacrificesoffered up to him by self-devotement, are notless criminal, perhaps not less numerous, thanthose recorded of the Moloch of Canaan. Twoother idols accompany Juggernaut, namely,Boloram and Shubudra, his brother andsister ; for there are three Deities worshippedhere. They receive equal adoration, and sit onthrones of nearly equal height.This morning I viewed the Temple ; a stu¬pendous fabric, and truly commensurate with ther ~10extensive sway of * the horrid king-.’ As othertemples are usually adorned with figures emble¬matical of their religion, so Juggernaut hasrepresentations (numerous and varied) of thatvice, which constitutes the essence of his worship.The walls and gates are covered with indecentemblems, in massive and durable sculpture.—Ihave also visited the sand plains by the sea, insome places whitened with the bones of thepilgrims ; and another place a little way out ofthe town, called by the English, the Golgotha,where the dead bodies are usually east forth ;and where dogs and vultures are ever seen.The grand Hindoo festival of the Rutt Jattra,takes place on the 18th inst. when the idol is tobe brought forth to the people. I resided dur¬ing my stay at the house of the Company’scollector of the tax on pilgrims, and superinten-dant of the people, formerly a student in theCollege of Fort-William ; by whom I am hos¬pitably entertained, and also by Captain Patton,and Lieut. Woodcock, comrnftndir.g the militaryforce. 1 was surprised to see how little theyseemed to be moved by the scenes of Juggernaut.They said they were now so accustomed tothem, they thought little of them. They hadalmost forgot their first impressions. Theirhouses are ou the sea shore, about a mile from thetemple. They cannot live nearer, on account ofthe offensive effluvia of the town. For, inde¬pendently of the enormity of the superstition,there are circumstances which render)Juggernautnoisome in an extreme degree. The senses are11| assailed by" the squalid and ghastly appearanceI or the famished pilgrims ; many of whom die in; the streets of want or of disease ; while the de-1 v«tees, with clotted hair and painted flesh, are• seen practising their various amusements, and.i modes of self torture. Persons of both sexes,with little regard to concealment, sit down on thesands ^lose to the town, in public view; andthe sacred bulls walk about among them and eatthe ordure.The vicinity of Juggernaut to the sea probalyprevents the contagion, which otherwise wouldbe produced by the putrefaction of the place.There is scarely any verdure to refresh the sightnear Juggernaut ; the temple and town beingnearly encompassed by hills of sard, which havebeen cast up in the lapse of ages by the surgt;of the ocean. All is barren and desolate to theeye ; and in the ear there is the never intermit¬ting sound of the roaring sea.1 have returned home from witsessing a scenewhich I shall never forget. At twelve o’clockof this day, being the great day of the feast, theMoloch of Hindoostan was brought out of histemple amidst the acclamations of hundreds ofthousands of his worshippers. When the idolwas placed upon his throne, a shout was raisedby the multitude, such as I had never heard be¬fore,It continued equable for a few minutes,and then gradually died away. After a shortinterval of silence, a murmur was heard at adistance : all eyes were turned towards the place,and, behold a grove advancing. A body of12men having green branches, or palms, in theirhands, approaching with great celerity. Thepeople opened a way for them ; and when theyhad come up to the throne, they fell down beforehim that sat thereon, and worshipped. And themultitude again set forth a voice ‘like the soundof a great thunder.’—But the voices I now heard,were not those of melody or of joyful acclama¬tion ; for there is no harmony in the praise ofMoloch’s worshippers. The number, indeed,brought to m/ mind the countless multitude ofthe Revelations ; but their voices gave no tune¬ful Hossanna or Hallelujah ; but rather a yellof approbation, united with a kind of hissing ap-lause.—I was at a loss to account for this latternoise, until I was directed to notice the women ;who emitted a sound like that of whistlingf. withtiie lips circular, and the tongue vibrating : as ifa serpent would speak by their organs, utteringhuman sounds.1 he throne of the idol was placed on a stupen¬dous car or tower about sixty feet in height, restingon wheels which indented the ground deeply, asthey turned slowly under the ponderous Machine.Attached to it were six cables, of the size andlength of a ship’s cable, by which the people drewit along. Thousands of men, women, andchildren pulled by each cable, crowded so close¬ly that some could only use one hand. Infantsare made to exert their strength in this office :for it is accounted a merit of righteousness tomove the god. Upon the tower were thepriests and satellites of the idol surrounding his13throne. I was told that there were about 120persons on the car altogether. The idol is ablock of wood having a frightful visage paintedblack, with a distended mouth of a bloody colour.His am s are of gold and he is dressed in gor¬geous apparel. The other two idols are of awhite and yellow colour.—Five elephants pre¬ceded the three towers, and having hells hang¬ing to their caparisons, which sounded musical¬ly as they moved.1 went on in the procession, close by thetower of Moloch ; which, as it was drawn withdifficulty, grated on its many wheels harshthunder. Alter a few minutes it stopped ; andnow the worship of the god began.—A high-priest mounted on the car in front of the idol,and pronounced his obscene stanzas in the earsof the people ; who responded at intervals in thestrain. ‘These songs,’ said he, ‘are the delightof the god. His car can only move when he ispleased with the song.—The car moved on alittle way, and then stopped. A hoy about twelveyears was then brought forth to attempt some¬thing yet mo e lascivious, if peradventure the godwould move. The child perfected the praise ofhis idol with such ardent expression and gesture,that the god was pleased, and the multitudeemitting a sensual yell of delight, urged the caralong—After a few minutes it stopped again.An aged minister of the idol then stood up, andwith a long rod in his hand, which he movedwith indecent action, completed the variety ofthis disgusting exhibition.—-! felt a conscious-*14ness of doing wrong in witnessing it. I wasalso somewhat appalled at the magnitude andhorror of the spectacle ; I felt like a guilty per¬son, on whom all eyes were fixed, and I wasabout to withdraw. But a scene of a differentkind was now to be presented. The character¬istics of Moloch’s worship are obscenity andblood. We have seen the former.. Now comesthe blood.’After the tower had proceeded some way, apilgrim announced that he was ready to offerhimself a sacrifice to the idol. He laid himselfdown ip the road before the tower as it was mov¬ing along, lying on his face, with his armsstretched forwards. The multitude passed roundhim, leaving the space clear, and he was crushedto death by the wheels of the tower. A shoutof joy was raised to the god. He is said tosmile when the libation of blood is made. Thepeople threw cowries, or small money, on thebody of the victim, in approbation of the deed.He was left to view a considerable time, andwas then carried to the Golgotha, where I havejust been viewing his remains, How much 1wished that the Proprietors of India Stock couldhave attended the wheels of Juggernaut, andseen this peculiar source of their revenue.The horrid solemnities still continue. Yester¬day a woman devoted herself to the idol. Shelaid herself down on the road in an obliquedirection, so that the wheel did not kill her in¬stantaneously, as is generally the case ; but shedied in a few hours. This morning as I passed15Ithe place of skulls, nothing remained of her butiher bor.-es.And this, thought I, is the worship of tbeBrahmins of Hindoestan, and their worship inthe sublimest degree! What then shall wethink of their private manners, and their moralprinciples ! - For it is equally true of India as ofEurope ;—If you would know the state of tjiei people, look at the state of the Temple.As to the number of worshippers assembledihere at this time, no accurate calculation can beimade. The natives themselves, when speakingiof the numbers at particular festivals, nsually sayIthat a lack of people (IQ,000) would not bei: missed. I asked a Brahmin how many he sup-< posed were present at the most numerous festi¬vals he had ever witnessed. ‘ How can I tell,’if said he ‘ how many grains there are in a handfulh of sand ?’The languages spoken there are various, asthere are Hindoos from every country in India:1 but the two chief languages in use by those wholii are resident, are the Orissa and the Telinga.I' The border of the Telinga Country is only aSfew miles distant from the Tower of Juggernaut.'I felt my mind relieved and happy when I|l had passed beyoird the confines of Juggernaut.| I certainly w as not prepared for the scene. Butp no one can know what it is who has not seen it.■ —-Frondan eminence, on the pleasant banks of theChilka Lake (where no human bones are seen,)I had a view of the lofty tower of Juggernautfar remote 5 and while I viewed it, its abomina-1Gtions canie to mind. It was on the morning ofthe Sabbath. Ruminating long on the wideand extended empire of Moloch in the heathenworld, I cherished in my thoughts the design ofsome ‘Christian Institution,’ which,being foster¬ed by Britain, my Christian country, mightgradually undermine this baleful idolatry, andput out the memory of it for ever.SUTTEE, ou WIDOW-BURNING.I was last September an eye-witness to theGentoo woman burning with her husband ; andas I stood by all the time, and took notes of allthat passed, you may depend upon the followingnarration to be strictly true ; I mean the cere¬monies that were used by these people, who hadalways'got their bread by their labour, and indeedwere so very poor, that their son was obligedto go from house to house to beg fire-wood toburn them with : the richer people are morecurious, and have their piles made of a sweetscented wood called Sandal, and much largerthan the people I am speaking of can possiblyafford.As soon as her husband was given over bythe doctor; she sent for a Brahmin and declaredher intentions to burn herself, son and daughter(which was the whole of her family) together,which some neighbours endeavoured as much aspossible to dissuade her from, but all to no pur-17pose, and from that time refused eating- anything, except a few plantains and betel-nuts,fl She sent for all her friends, who staid with heri all night, and with whom she was very merry,f In the morninof the man died, and his son cameto me to ask leave to burn his father and motherin the Bazaar (or market place), as it belongsto the plantation, and is close to my house. 1told him, very well ; but that I should take careno force was"used to make her burn against herwill. He told me he was so far from forcing,that he had oftered her two rupees a month forlife ; but yet could not help saying it would re-I fleet an honour on his family for his mother toi burn. The man was scarce cold before he andI his wife were carried upon men’s shoulders, shes sitting by him ; and having provided herself1 with some couries (small shells which go currentI: for money here), she distributed them amongsti the populace, together with rice fried in butterSand sugar, very plentifully, as she passed fromher house to the place of burning , where, when| she arrived, they had not begun to make the pile;so she was set down, together with her deadhusband, and gave several orders to the peoplein making the pile, and was so far from beingin the least afraid, that she rejoiced much. Iwent up to her, and asked her if it was her own' fr#e will and consent 5 She told me it was,and that she was much obliged to me for givingher liberty to burn in that place, and desired Iwould not offer to oppose it, as she would cer-! tainly make way with herself wras she prevented.ISShe sat there talking with her friends and neigh* lhours, till the pile was ready, which was above*an hour, and then went a little distance off, Iwhere the deceased was also carried, and werelboth washed with Ganges water, and had clean |clothes put on them. The son of the deceased Ithen put a painted paper crown, or cape, on his sfather’s head, of the same kind as is usual forthem to wear at their marriacres : and a Brando?_> 7woman brought four lamps burning, and put one iof them into the woman’s hand, and placed theother three round her upon the ground : all thetime she held the lamp in her hand, the Braminwoman was repeating some prayer to her;which when finished, she put a garland of flowersround her head, and then gave the son of thedeceased, who was standing close by a ring madeof grass, which she put upon one of his fingers,and an earthen plate full of boiled rice and plan¬tains mixed up together, which he immediatelyoffered to his deceased father, putting it threetimes to his mouth) and then in the same mannerto his mother, who did not taste it. The de¬ceased was supported all this time, and set uponhis breech close by his wife, who never spokeafter this, but made three salems to her husband,by putting her hands upon the soles of his feet,and then upon her own head. The deceasedwas then carried away and put upon the pile,and] his wife immediately followed, with a potunder her arm, containing 21 cowries, 21 piecesof saffron, 21 pons for betel-nut, and the leafmade ready for chewing: one little piece of iron.19, and one piece of sandalwood. When site got tothe pile, she looked a little at her husband, whoI was lying upon it, and then walked seven timesj round it ; when she stopped at his feet, anda made the same obeisance to him as before. SheI then mounted the pile without help, and laidherself down, close fcv her husband’s side,putting the pot she carried with her closeto her head ; which as soon as done, she clas¬ped her husband in her arms ; and the.son, whowas standing ready with a wisp of staw, lightedin his hand, put the blaze of it three times to hisfather and mother’s mouth, and then set the pileon 'fire all around, whilst the populace threwreeds and lighted wood upon them ; and theywere both burnt to ashes in less than an hour.I believe she soon died, for she never moved,though there was no weight upon her hut whatshe might easily bad overset, had she had anyinclination.HINDOO INFANTICIDE;Or, Murder of Female Children.The humanity and intrepid spirit of MarquisW ellesly (Dr Buchanan observes,) abolisheda yet more criminal practice, which was con¬sidered by the Hindoos as a religious rite, andconsecrated by custom ; I mean the Sacrificeof Children. His Loi dship had been infoi^nedthat it had been a custom of the Hindoos tosacrifice ‘children in consequence of vows, bydrowning them, or exposing them to sharks andcrocodiles ; and that twenty-three persons hadperished at Saugur in one month (January 1801)many of whom were sacrificed in this manner.He immediately instituted an enquiry into theprinciples of this ancient atrocity ; he heardpatiently what Natives and Europeans had tosay in defence of the custom, and then passed alaw, “ declaring the practice to be murder pun¬ishable by death.”—The law entitled “ Aregulation for preventing the Sacrifice of Child¬ren at Saugur and other places; passed theGovernor-General in Council on the ‘JOth ofAugust, 1802.”—The purpose of this regula¬tion was completely effected. Not a murmurwas heard on the subject ; nor has any attemptcome to our knowledge since. It is impossibleto calculate the number of human lives thathave been saved, during the last eight years, bythis human law of the Marquis.The following relation, in the words of thesame author, will shew what human nature canbelieve and perpetrate, when destitute of the lightfrom Heaven.Among the Hindoo tribes called the Jarejah,in the provinces of Cutch and Guzerat in thewest of India, it is a custom to destroy female21infants. The mother herself is commonly theexecutioner of her own offspring'. W®men trfjirauk may liave their slaves and attendants whoperform this office, hut the far greater numberexecute it with their own hands.A Rajpoot, fbr some unassigned leasons. spared his female child , which grew up in thefather’s house to the age in which the girls inI India are married. Ihe sight of a girl, how¬ever, in the house of a Rajpoot was so novel,and so contrary to the customs of the tribe, thatno parent sought her in marriage for his son.Ij The father, suffering under the frowns of hisi own tribe, and trembling for the chastity of hisj daughter and the honour of his family, \tas1 driven into a state of phrenzy, and in this state,| taking his daughter aside, he actually put an| end to her existence.I Lieut. Colonel Alexander Walker hadfirst the honour of appearing before this peopleas the advocate of humanity. He addressedthem in his official character, and, as ambassa¬dor from the British nation, he entreated themto suffer the'r daughters to live. It si e ns theyhad means of appreciating the private characterof this officer, and they respected his virtues ;\ but in regard to this moral negotiation^ theyperemptorily refused even to listen to it.What more, it would be said, can be donewith prudence ? Enthusiasm alone would die-tate furtluir solieitude about the matter. ButCttl. Walker did not desist from his benevolentpurpose, because he met with some obstacles :for he wished to overcome them. He soughtopportunities of informing the Understanding ofthe people on the nature of the crime. Bydiscussing the subject frequently in tl»e publicCutcherry (the Court of Justice) and exposingthe enormity of the practice, as contrary to theprecepts of religion, and the dictates of nature,every Caste came to express an abhorrence ofInfanticde ; and the obstinate prejudices of theJarejahs began to be shaken. And what wasthe result ? Within twelve months of the dateof the foregoing letters, Jarejah Jehagee him¬self and Jehagee’s Mother, and FattehMahomed, fonnaly abjured the practice ofinfanticide, and were soon followed by the Jarejahfathers, who brought their infant daughters toCol. Walker’s tent, and exhibited them withpride and fondness. Their mothers and nursesalso attended on this interesting occasion. Trueto the feeling's which are found in other conn-tries to prevail so forcibly, the emotions of natureexhibited were extremely moving. The mothers'placed the infants in the hands of Col. Walker,calling on him to protect what he alone hadtaught them to preserve. These infants they*emphatically called ms children.23OF THE DIFFERENT CASTE OF HINDOOS.The laws for preserving' the different orders forever distinct, enjoins, that higher orders shallnot have the least communion with the trihe ortribes below them, in marriage, in eating, or inany degree of familiar friendship, on pain of de¬gradation, and loss of all eaitbly conneciions.The penalty connected with the loss of caste tis the loss of the whole world. The offenderis not only rejected by father, mother, brother,or sister, and all that are dear ta him, but by allhis countrymen. He in vain looks through thisinhospitable world ; not a hut will open its doorto him, and henceforth he can no more see tlwface of father, mother, brother, otjsister, or evenof his wife or children. He must tear from hisheart every tender tie aiid recollection, and musthide his head amongst the most degraded out¬casts, without the least hope of ever again seeingthe faces of those who gave him birth. Hisown father and mother will run away at hispresence, as from one infected by some deadlydistemper. Many an individual involved inthese circumstances, by his own trespasses, orthose of his wife, or some near relative, hasabandoned the world, and become a religiousmendicant, or has fled to Benares as a place ofrefuge—or has put an end to his existence.Others have offered a thousand, two thousand,ten thousand, a lack of rupees, to be restored tocaste, without success. Here then is a prison,far stronger than any which the civil tyranniesof the world have ever erected ; a prison whichimmures many millions of innocent beings.Deposition of a Family Idol.The following- anecdote is related by the Mis¬sionaries at Ridderpore.On the 21st of July, we visited Rammakal-ehoke, and were happy to find that Geredhor, aperson of the village, who is a regular atteuderoil the means of grace, had destroyed his idol.About a week prior to our visit to the village,this man’s aunt was tajeen ill, and he prayed tohis domestic idol to heal her, making a vow thathe would offer a buffalo in sacrifice should hisaunt recover. The prayers and the vow wereboth unavailable ; for tbe woman died. A fewdays after, his lirst cousin was seized with afflic¬tion : he again applied to his domestic oracle forrelief, hut help was sought in vain—death carriedoff this relative likewise. The man, enragedat the stupid idol, who had refused to hear hiscries in such a season of calamity, declared thatPunchanund, the family god, was destitute ofpewer. He therefore forthwith took it downfrom its seat, bound it up with the corpse, andproceeded to the place of burning', where lie wasabout to commit it to the flames. A Brahminhowever, being present at the spot, entreatedhim to desist from committing such an outrageupon the idol. The man listened to this remon¬strance, and, upon the Brahmin’s request, gavehim the image, It was soon consecrated afresh ;and it now occupies a place among the Brah¬min’s domestic idols. Geredhor continues tohold idolatry in contempt, and is, we hope, notfar from the kingdom of heaven.