I a cuiuous and Compendious description ofVORRO WD ALE,j AND ON ITS VVILD AND UNCUI TIVATEDINHABITANTS,i Who are turning from God, and flying to the Devil.| Et Loquor nil nisi verum ; et mullum in PA R I Q.TO WHICH IS ADDED,.A curious Address round about! KESWICK;And all written for RURAL FESTIVITY.FIFE mem or lethi FUGIT HORA.quod loquor iude est, Deus est nobis sol et scutomribo non niehi sed vendo in pat. ia».TE SCRIBO PRO. BONO PUBLICO.tten in the short-hand, by a Gentleman, at RIDD1NGSear flirelkeld. in the County of Cumberland ; andifterwards written at length by the same Editor,Printed for the Author.Deus nobis haec otia fecit.—VirgiiK -IND and courteous readers, if any of you Ia mind to See any curiosities, you must hot st;home, or sit by the fire side ; but you must set dyour feet, and reambtilate mountains, and th*-nwi II s**e different maimers, customs, and curiosithe idleness of some people, and the hardshipothers: and we will see the one half of the peopworld, they know not how the other half doSome, lives retired in deseris, and some among metains, as the people in Borrowdale, almost excitfrom the ‘erestnal world, because the\ dwell in tlbleu regions, astonishing to behold; some of tseems to to neb thewery clouds. Some fives in mitains of snow, and others amoi g shoals ol ice; •-tore forced to shelter under the wide canopy of heaiexposed to all the inclemtncvof the wether: swander in foreign regions, friendless und harbour!deplorably situated in smoky houses, coveredsoot and nastiness; and they see nothing within dbut poverty, and without wild cattle; as the pein Borrowdale to them may be compared. And t"is but one way of coming into the world, but the-more ways of departing from it again; and (tie1much betwixt the crude and the grave. Some tare, who, for the sake of finery on their ba< ks.go with hunger in their bellies; and they starve town families by wearing silks and satins ; but oinsubject my pen must cease to write, while 1 ternattention to local history; .aud for me to write aliicurious things I have seen m Cumberland, to me'will be too tedious, and for the want <>f a le rued;1 cannot write such a history as the most famous!cholson an 1 Burns ; and had 1 t ut the goldenof these noble greeian poets und historians, as Ho1AnacreOn, Longimus, Ep:ctatu», Pindar, Hes-Xenophon, Sophocles, Gerard,A olsius, an.I that ifamous Athenian, the Grecian orator, the word,Demosthenes, or the pens of these brave and nj(I 3‘H -;n>aH poets and historians, as Viri'i' Horace, Catu-, Ovid, Juvinal, Sallust, Plato, Tullus, <! cero,icitus, Pliny, JnsMn, Dio^oros, Qmutus, Curtius,i thauorus, Atticus, Herodotus, Tasso, Ausaums,f ebdosins, Terence, Erasmus, Seaton, Ccesar’scom-•ntary, and my own countrymen, the Spanish poet1 historian, Lucius, and Floras; or the golden,penthat most famous Roman poet and historian, Livy;are classical authors ; and these upon religious.' pjects, the Holy Bible, the Life of our Saviour, and| Boston’s Four-fold Slate and Body of Divinity,flyer's Golden Chain u> Four Links, Doctor Clark,I-ol, Lightfoot, Henry’s Cemmentary, Doctor Dod-jge, Rowe, Watson’s Bod / of Divinity, Watts, Md-t, Prior, Hume, Lyttleton, -Spectator, Hervey,ildsmith, Locke, Swil't, SmolUt, Sherlock, Fer—'On, Tillotson, Steel, I ord Bollingftwkc, Addison^buthnot, Congreve, (irotius, Marcelliwus, andSmy more 1 could mention, and if I had all these,ble authors’ golden pens, I could write as good astory as any of them. But my unlearned pen cannotease the nobility ; and the limits jf this little book11 not admit a compleat history, so I must make itiiltiuu in PAVLVO.So I shall begin-at BIDDINGS, the residence andoperty of E. Greenhow ; is situated on a risingmind, on the banks of the river-Greta, and near it isme fir trees, and a pleasant garden; and a little offwe will find the village of ThreJkeld, and it doesntain 20 houses; they are situated at the foot ofiddlehack. So to the left of it is the pleasant fieldsd meadows, for cultivation, and a glittering stream,inning by the gardens and low side of them, is theoad and green valleys of St. John’s, and near it livesmost famous physician, named C. Wdliatnsou. Thentile road to Keswick, and -near.the skirts of the-wn, on a green field, I did view a most curious and-nilior monument of antiquity, with some fir trees,,id the stones, being oO m number, called by th<.antry people Lang Meg and her daughters. Wa-4Bext do forop to a rarHing or a spinning mill, andit is many hands required. So a lit'h- trom it onground; on the banks of the river Greta, is situatGreta Banks, the -eat and restdenct ot William Ct|[vert, esq., and I Pain. To 'he left of it is a mostmousand pleasant garden, belonging to Mr. Saundeand it is more bk to a Paradise, than a celestial gaden : and we n as say with that divine and inspiritRoman poet, Virgil, areordi.ng to this descriptiowhish in these words runs thus :—Dio puibus inteiinsenpto; namina regum naseunttr flores ; and itclothed most beautifully with picturesque walks, antrees of ambrosia I ssveeis, and herb> of various descrijtions. Next is Castle-head, a rock so called, and c.it is curious seats, and from them one may sit and stfar and near. Next we may pass on to the town tKeswick, that most commodious place of architeeluriand then view its white buildings, and they do cortain one street, next is Mount Pleasant. It w-as onethe residence of a poet Inuret, but now he is dormarand dethroned, by his false productions It is situsted on a rising ground, on the banks ol the rive. Gretstnd it does exhibit nature in all her picturesque beauSv. And it is most finely ornamented with the mosdeasant of fruit, herbs, trees, and flowe s. of vanouascriptions. Next is a hot-house, call' d thetnnlove, and at it i-; various flowers and plants ; and nea: is the Vicarage, the rtstdeuce of the Rev. I DentonP., and preacher of the gospel at Crostbwaitlurch, and on the church there is a < lock, to tell thhour of the day. So 1 must not. forget the liigtschool; at it is a number of pupils. When from tinschool they go home, they go, 2 and 2 in a rank, lik<as many military tnej), hy order ot their most tamouteacher. To rbe right of it is that immense niountaii’Panted Skiddaw ; in summer time on it is a pleusanwalk, lor both ladies and gentlemen, and on some oit is nothing but rubbish. And near it is Milbt-clfactory; at it is many lia.nds required. Then ove.some green fields, is the village of Portinscale, and u-3the teft of it is Darn*IIill, the seat of M>-. 'S'aek. orrni-meuted with wood and water; tlu n-tM'... .u.'.'Va uon«ftrees is Pigmie-Hall ; then water, and fi^“ ear.of W.Gordon. . Then over the lake ts the Viei»f’< S'i.iud ;it is soin^times the residence of I. P., and ft'iv wellenvironed and ornamented .both with wood and water.And to it one may snil in a boat, hot not m the tuneof Winter, for with both iee and water it is unpassatde.And then by the lake side is Stable Hills, ven beau¬tiful to behold ; and near it. it is an immense plantationof trees, where sometimes the crows are budding- nests,for preparing of their young. Then Ramps Holm,and Keswiek. lake, and St. Derwent’s lake, anil theLord’s Island, and the Island of Lord D. iwentwater,| who was in times of old beheaded for his misdemeanorOver the lake to his house there was once a draw¬bridge, but now it is all demolished and gone to ruin.Then l passed through the thick woods of Lord Egre-mont, to the va b-y of Newlawls, with its green andsmiling fields. In the summer season they look mostbeautiful. Then.I did come to White-house, ^mdton a rising ground, named the Grange, in the midst of-a valley, and all around with mounfp.ins on every side ;and on is publicly signed a most curious Roman mot¬to, but it is in English, ■* Rest m Hiaveti ’’ Near itis a salt well, for the curing and healing of every dis¬ease or disorder. Anil that mineral well of water, itis worth more money than their is in all Borrowdaie,tor it healeth the sick, it oureth the blind, and u can-set the prisoner f;-*-e ; and it is sent for a donationIrom (tod, for the coning and healing of all nation'.Rut yet >t is not so salt as Lot’s wile, who was turnedinto a pillar of salt, as we may so read in Scripture.Next curion* place is Watendlath tarn,: then a littleoil it we may cmne ami enter into the J^iw’s of Borrow-dale, which is a most turbulent chaos of mountainsbehind mountains, rolled as in confusion, and theremay oe seen many a hundred of-nameless hills withoutend, i tom rionowfiale it is six miles in length to thethe curious Bowder Stone, to the Wad Mints, near16Srathwaite. Thej' are situated on a risini; ground,and Botrow;!aVe is a most plea>ant rountry in summer,bur it is most borrinle m winter; and at it lives a mostra.eiess set of nenple. F-hey caie not what they eithersav or do. Oh my dear friends, for I cannot eall youChristians ; '.on have nothing but its name; you arenet wnat vou pretend to be. At the best \ou are batpilgrims and st>angers on the earth, and Oh, what upsand downs is in yonr life-time. You are on this poorbu transcendant world ; >ou ate but strangers from.he cradle to the grave, to which all of you are ap¬proaching : and tt is a place where t ;e worm diethnot, neither will the fir be.quenched, and to it we arenil going, and it is the place or the house appointedfor all living. And if an\ of you will but considerhow short on earth is your thread of life. You haveno abiding place here, but in time you must look outfor another cue, whose builder and maker is (iod, andall things from him do proceed. But to that toomany people in Bbrrowdale give themselves no con- ,cern at all, as if the) were to live upon earth always.But the time it will come, when from your, riches youmust cie, and leave them behind you,.and it certainlyand shortly will come, when you all must cease from •your tale; when yom luxurious great ones in Borrow-dale shall no more tread down the poor ones to theground, and the time it will come, when there will bp •no respect of persons with God ; when all at Ins tri¬bunal seat must stand ; and so my dear friends, since--it hath pleased the Almighty to send you all kinds of -grain, and too many of you.cannot take the use ofthem, so never more be inclined to the hoarding ofthe riches of this poor hut transcend a tit world, foryou must rile, and bid farewell to all this world’s grau-deflr, and be blended down and brought into dust;to moulder hi the monsoulems and the mansions of.the tombs. And all youx promise ions niubitude ofyou will be bundled together, and all erudition, with¬out any rank or seniority, nurd come to a retirement,and suppose some of you. people in Borrow dale <1obh-.7neer or tvranixp over a stranger, yet the time it willcome, when you will "et no more hut the breadth ofyour barks. Ye* all ot \ou must come to a level inthe grave ; and why shou'd-any of you be surh loversof amor patriae, for they wdl not always keep \ on a-live npo i the earth ; aud when vox Deau, or the voiceof God, will call you to his bar, as before it, in oneday, all of you must appear, neither your gold, silver,or tinsel, will be able to deliver you in the dav of theLord’s wrath. And if you do not use your riches onearth, y**u cannot get the use of thorn in heaven ; aplace where money will not buy. So 1 well m iy callsome of yon crazy bodies, and well l may say some ofyou is des;royed for lack of knowledge, and some ofyou are not half wise; and I •ften have heard of thegouks of Borrowdnle, and they may be compared tothe cookoo, erring in the fields, lor they are so brutishand ignorant. But before pale death annihilate andand close jour eyes, you mar pray to God for his be-nedietim, that you may be converted from the dark¬ness of your sins, to the knowledge of J X l\ for manyof them are but as wild sheep running without a shep¬herd, and will not he guided. And you think if youhave plenty of money you are very well; but von mayhave plenty to-dav and nothing to-morrow. And youhave both meat and money in abundance. Yon can¬not take the ttse-tsf them, and yon live on a diet in thecomparison of a swine in-a manner, and before anv ofyou will supply a stranger if they be hungry, you wrllrather throw your meat on the ground, and bid a stran¬ger begone.•ah, are not ybir ordered in Scripture to let fraternal lovecontinue ; and you may say in you have done evil, do so nomore. So you may turn your hearts and feed the hungry,for you have plenty t> do it with, both bread, cheese, milk,butter, beef, mutton, venisoi, lamb, bacon, and potatoes.Yes, you will not give them to a stranger; and by doingso you are abusing the mercies of God, and to have sentyou plenty ; and while you are spending the one year’s pro¬ductions he is providing you with another ; and hois sus¬taining you with all things tint is necessary, fo the sup¬port and comfort of human life, and bread is Uu; .suH'of8man’s life, and God’s eye is always watching Over you withhis providential care, and over your fatuities both when 1you hfe'-^isjey'ii and awake. And nothing to you comesspontaneoiisHi birt all is sent from God. The grass lie docause to g: ow for the cattle, and the herbs for the serviceroan; and of his blessings all may be thankful. But you >in Borrovvdale are not in the least. You may boast andbrag of your riches, but for your education, your virtue,and your knowledge of religion and its rules, when into ityou lire examined, you do come to it into great deficiency,and you can do nothing to it but bark as a'dog, or bleatas a sheep in the valley. And as fur Theology, and its rulesor matters, when into it you are examined, you are either |dumb, or return such answers as you may be compared tococks and hens’, without reiigion altogether, and you seemto be deranged, and if you do not in time seek God, bygrace and prayer, you cannot expect to piosper, either inthis world, or that which is to come- Oh let you seekGod, for his grace, and ] refer his love before all otherthings. and seek for an intere t in 1. XT. so now my belovedbrethren, in Borroweiale, you may read all this if youplease, and if there is any scholars among you, take upyour pens, and send to me an answer, then see to get anorder to obtain eternal salvation, that your souls may hewelcome to glon, and be foe ever witii the Lord I. XT.your dear and only Redeemer of mankind, to whom beglory and blessing for ever and ever. Ameu.Sed omnes una manet nox, ct calcandasimil via lethi.Coronat opus.TINTS.