L/ ' .' - . , vANACCOUNTOF THE PARTICULARS O L I L O CLU I E SANDCOVENANT ENGAGEMENTS,OFMrs. JANET HAMILTON,The deceafed Lady of Alex. Gordon ofEarlfton.pon the feveral Diets, and at the feveralI Places under-written, which were foundi in her Cabinet among her Papers, aftern her Death, at Earlfton, Feb. 26. 1696.1 Being all written and fubfcribed with herMOwn hand; and thought fit to be difcov-uered, for the encouragement of others tor the like duty.ten from a Glafgow Copy, Primed inthe Year 1754.Pai/ley, printed by J. Neilfon, Cumberland^For John Glen, Port-Glafgow.j8oi.impp( 3 )l5^* fy7 r-^*: •r^T; rf1? r^» rjj^ K^T: r^jpf ^Jj.Covenant Engagements, &c.OFii/^. HAMILTON.The firft dated atBlacknefs Caftle, December, 1687.LORD, I defire to blefs thy name forthy former loving kindnefles unto me1 the time of my ftrait, in helping and ftand-:;ig by me when overcharged with affliction,/( 4 )and deferted of friends. What was I and my Ifather’s houfe ? A poor infufticient creature, |taken up with nothing but vanities of all forts. |O what moved a holy God ever to condef-1cend to look upon me, and pafs by fo many ]much more worthy than poor undeferving |me ? O praifes be unto thee, O Mod High ! IO that my tongue were employed thro’ time Jjin magnifying the holy name of fo merciful a ijGod! May not I fay that his mercies are overtall his other works to me ! May not I fit and |admire his free love, firft in inclining myheart to love him and his people, and in call¬ing my lot amongft the godly, and in bellow¬ing a godly and kind hufband upon me (when ■,left deftitute of father or mother ) and thathe did fo care for me, as not to fulFer me to 1enjoy the defires of my heart- but was at painsto hedge in my way with thorns; and his in¬finite love fuft’ered me not to fit at my eafe,enjoying my pleafure in the day of Zion’scalamity.And preparing the way by fmaller trialsfor greater, thou didft, in thine infinite loveland wifdom, not at firlt call me into the hot-tell flames of the furnace, left I Ihould nothave been able to Hand, but in fright faint¬ed and turned back : but, O praife, praifebe to him that inhabits eternity ! that con-defcended fo far to me a worm, as fweetiy totrain me up, alluring me and fpeaking com-fortably to me at my firft entry into the wil-dernefs. Thou caufed thy word to be to myfoul as the honey and the honey-comb. Thoumadft me fit under thy fhadow with greatdelight, and thy fruit was fweet to my tafte.So that many a time, that, which to on-look¬ers was fad, was fweet to me. The Lorddid fofupport and feaft me in his banquetinghoufe, that I was made to rejoice in the miditof my tribulations.Likewife, thou didll not fuffer me to goon with thofe that were indifferent in Chrifl’smatters, but with thy rod thou didft raifeI fuch a zeal ax\d love on my fpirit, and fo filledi my mouth with arguments, that I could notI fee any thing like defection from, or wrongdone to, any of thy truths, without refent-ling, tellifying, and contending againfl it.IThou fo far changed my heart, which was(proud and haughty, much difdaining theconverfe of the poor,—that thou helped meito be denied to great folk, and to the reproach!3 fuffered on that head, making the companyf the poor that were godly in the land dearnto me j and 1 hope they fhall be fo, whilehey keep in God’s way—he having paffed byhe great ones, and honoured the poor, mak-ng them boldly to teftify for him ; and thofe.'horn he honours, 1 defire (thro’ grace) to. ( 6 )honour. Praife be to thee, whofe care ofme was fuch that it was minifters who were ivaliant for Chrifl that he fent )n my way ;1'uch as did not flattter mein my fin, but faith- .fully and freely did hold out in the gofpel iwhat was fin and what was duty, and fealedthe fame with their blood. How didft thouencourage me with many fweet anfwers ofprayers, to confirm mein thy love. Thoudidit help me in the days of thy love to meJto make a full refignation of all that wasimine unto thee. When I was put out of all,flriped bare and deftitute, not knowing offlicker to me and poor my babes, how calmlyand quietly didft thou help me to go underit! fo that 1 was made to fear that it was .flupidity, and not fupporting grace. And!fuch was thy love, that even in that thouwould not let me go without a reproof; forthere was a friend fuffered to wrong me in abufinefs, and the Lord withdrew', and thenI was as a bullock unaccuftomed to the yoke ;I could not get it borne, until I mourned formy folly in thinking that nature could doany thing in me without afiifting grace : thenhe helped me to make a full refignation anewof all that was mine, and to look beyond allearthly portions unto that noble inheritancewhich thou haft purchafed with thine ownblood, and gave me a full contentednefs inal] my fufferings, both from friends and foes*\ 7 /And when thou didft (for the trial of myfaith and patience) throw me in very hotflames of affli&ion, having all difcourage-ments from the world that a poor thing couldbe tryfted with ; and that which was foreftto me, not having that meafure of fenfe ofthy prefence as fometirnes before : but Q!that condefcendence ! O that fatherly lo^e,that did not fufler me to fink in this florinwhich was lightly looked on by the moltpart; few to fympathize with me, but manythinking it their duty to add to rny affliction.O prailes! praifes be to thee, who at thattime helped me to fit filent, bearing thy indig¬nation patiently, becaufe I finned againft thee j.yet thy mercies did not fail towards me, butthou didft in this extremity fupport me, anddid, by reftraining grace, bind me in, notgiving me liberty to feek finful deliverances.O Lord, continue in thy love in keeping mein thy way, that I may have reafon to fet upmy Ebenezer, and to fay, Hitherto theLord hath helped me. O Thou that haft be¬gun this good work, perfetf it, that I maypraife thy holy name thro’ time and all eter¬nity. And now, O Lord, out of the fenfeof all thefe thy loving kindnefies towards thypoor handmaid, I defire in thy ftrength torenew former engagements, and folemnly a-new to enter into covenant with thee. Q' Lord, help me to go fincerely about it, andlet thy presence go along with the duty.O Lord, I here defire to enter folemnly iin"o covenant with tljee, taking thee for myLord and Mafter, accepting thee on thy ownterms, taking thee for my King, Prieft, and 1Prophet; and in my ftation, thro’ thy grace, !to iland by truth, and cheerfully to take onthy yoke and follow thee. Lord, thou know-eft my weaknefs : I defire to believe that thouwilt be a prefent help, in the day of need, to. !me, according to thy promife ; and I, in thefaith of this, do go on I here give myhearty confent to thy coming and taking pof-feffion of my foul, and to thy catling out ofall there that Hands in oppofiiion to thee. :Come, Lord Jefus, fubdue ail my corrup¬tions, and bring them under thy feet, that Imay be thro* thee a conqueror over them.I defire here *to take thee for my all, to beruled and governed by thee, acquiefcing towhatfoever (hall be thy way of dealing withme. Give me thyfelf, and this Ihall be allmy defire : I defire to enter my proteftationat the throne of grace, again ft all principali¬ties and powers in me that (land out again ftthee, and Hull endeavour, in thy ftrength, towar againfl them, for they reign as tyrantsnot having confent. Whatever I have been,I dare here accept of the offer of peace thro’1Clirift, and do make a fure covenant wit&thee this day never to be reverfed, hopingthou wilt make all forthcoming unto me,both on thy part and mine.—I defire here toown all the contraverted truths that arefounded on fhy holy word; which word Idefire to be my rule, and to confefs thee be¬fore men, that thou may eft confefs me beforethe Father. Lord, give me in that hour, if1 fhall be brought before great ones for thynames fake, 1 defire to adhere to all the ar¬ticles of the Covenants, National and Solemn[League, to which I am engaged j only Itdilbwn the king’s part of it, he having un-ikinged himfelf by the breach of Covenant',and by making our land a land of gravenimages, that was fo folemnly given up to.God: I deftre in weaknefs to adhere to it,Jaitho’ burnt by the hand of the hangman,land no*/ buried by thofe that better thingswere expe&ed of. O Lord, I defire to clofeill, by giving myfelf up to thee, and allpine: Accept, Lord Jefus Chrift, and help:o perform, and own me as thy covenantedchild, protefting humbly, that railing on myaart (againft which I refolve as thou knowefl)hall not make void this covenant. I haveiccepted of thy ofler upon thy own terms,.nd will henceforth wait for what is good,hat when thou comeft I may rejoice in thee,. . < 10 )crying, This is my God, I have waited forhim. As witnefs my hand, at BlacknessCastle,December, Sic fubfcribiiur,1687.JANET HAMILTON.C II )Covenant Engagements &c,The fecond dated atEalston, January, 1691.LORD, thou kn-oweft my former eogage-ments which paft betwixt my foul and| thee, when I entered into' covenant with theeI (to my foul’s great comfort) in the fweet3 Caftle of Blacknefs.—I giving myfeif up un-| to thee, pro mill ng to be for thee in my Ra¬tion, adhering to thy facred fcriptures, and:to our noble work of reformation, which wasthen the head of my fufferings, and for whichI had loft the favour of my relations andchriftian friends, whofe untendernefs to memade rne fit folitary, eating the bread of ad-werfity, and drinking the water of aflli&ion ;killed all the day long with fore and heavyreproaches ; few or none to fympathize withme but thyfelf, who fweetened all my trialswith the foul comforting confolations of thyIrioly Spirit : fuch contentednefs, thou gavef 12 )?me in thy fweet crofs, that I never knewwhat it was for to weary.—I at that time en¬gaged to endure what ingredients thouIh&uldeft put in my cup to drink, and todrink cheerfully and fubmifllvely.—Such wasthy love to me, that thou brought me fromunder the fee* of that cruel enemy, withoutwronging truth ; and hall letten me fee, thatI have nothing to boafl of,—it being nothingin me but ever free grace that perfe&edflrength in my weaknefs. O that 1 had thetongue of the learned, that I might fhew allthy praifes! It was not I but thou who mag¬nified thy power, in carrying a poor weakthing thro’ fuch depths, and fuffered greatones to flagger and tall in the way—Thyword was made 'out in making ufe of thefoolilh things of the world to confound thewife.—Thou haft; made thy infinite love tocarry thro’ a poor finite creature.How often have I been made to Hand andwonder, and admire free love ; knowing myown weaknefi, and the many infirmitiesam liable to, by a body of fin and deathfuch was thy love, that thou gave me fuchcourage, that neither the flattering of friendsnor the threats of enemies could move meto do any thing to truth’s difadvantage! Suchwas thy love to me ! O thy fweet crofs! thyyoke was mad eafy to me, and thy burdenlight. O that any Ihould fear at thy fchool!So much comfort and confolation is to befound in quietly and calmly acquiefcing tohis will, that I may fay, 1 lhall never havefuch contentednefs, were I to be inheritor ofthe whole world, as I had under the fweetcrofs of Chrift. O praifes! praifcs to himwho made it fo! Iiut with what a heavyheart did I come out of that caftie of Black-refs! I he Lord did give me fuch a fight ofthe intricate difpenfations that the Churchwas to meet with, by the coming of the Princeof Orange, that inftead of being compaft a-bout with fongsof deliverance, it was attend¬ed with great heavinefs: 1 could take plea-fure in nothings but mourning over the fadthings I fa-.v coming on the Church. Whenothers were rejoicing, I durft not makemention of my difconfolate cafe. Whenthey fpake of preferment to my family, itwas as a fword to my heart, I cried, and theLord heard me in that; and inftead of that,he gave me the aflurance of the falvation ofmy dear child William, and gave me fullf i'ubmiflion to his ficknefs, which I could ne¬ver win to before,—accompanied with ma-ny fweet melting days, which was to mean> inexprefiible mercy. Oh, - then ! what did lfee next ? The work of God betrayed, noti by enemies, nor by that party only that had: fitten at their cafe, but by thofe miuifters andr i4 ) .people that had jeoparded their lives in thehigh places of the fields, taking chearfullythe {polling of their goods;—thefe are theythat have buried the work of the Lord, fad-dened the hearts of their poor affii&ed breth- iren, buried the Covenant and the Reforma- Ition work, which was the glory of our land.Seeing all this with the home-coming to |my houfe, which I thought 1 never wouldhave enjoyed again till Chrill had been ref- 1toredto his rights; for, O Lord, thou know-eft, that I defired not delivery till i,t had comewith Zion’s : I fay, this call me into a great 'grief. Lord, thou knovveft my burden : it cis not hid from thee, and it is all my comfort.0 the depths of the intricate difpenfations I 1have been tryfted with, ftnce I came out ofthat forefaid Callle ! If it were not that mycafe and Zion's is fomewhat levelled alike,finely I would fink beneat h the ft ream ; bu',the cup which my father hath given me, fliall1 not drink it? Lord, help me, that I wearynot before it be at an end.Would it not affect any foul that ever hadany love to Chrift, to fee the fid fruit of aperfonal delivery ;—-every one running outof the furnace'after the world, and after hisowm rights and privileges, without being•concerned to enquire how7 Chrift is invefted•in his rightsandprerogativ.es. Oh! is thisktkj,’]brj.hj1 . , ( <5 )the gratitude we have (hewn him for all hisloving kindneffes to us in the wildernefs ! Isthis for his feeding, clothing, and prefervingin defpight of enemies ! Is this all we haverendered to him—to run as fo many fheep out, of a fold, every one to what he could win at,without ever looking and confidering whatwas their duty to do in fuch a time for Chriftand his caufe! O ! wrath is gone out againftus! Plague upon plague is the portion forprofeffors of this generation! O Lord, Ifear I, and many others, have been buildingupon a fandy foundation; fuffering more outof an expectation of a temporal delivery, thanout of love to Chrift and his caufe! the eventof the fufferings of Scotland fpeaks out thetruth of this,—the fight whereof has mademy heart to tremble. Therefore, O Lord,I defire that thou wouldeft uncover the deceiti of my heart in this, with a true fenfe of itupon my fpirit, that I may mourn in iecret[ places for it. O ! give me thy aflifting gracel and helping hand in this reeling, fainting, andI falling time, that 1 may be helped, in fingle-i nefs and uprightnefs of heart, and infinceritywithout hypocrify or guile, to lay that foun¬dation ftone right, which is Jefus Chrift.O come and give thy confent to this covenantand bargain this day : let thy prefence {hewthy fatisfa<ftion in it, that 1 may win to thefaith—that not only I have covenanted with; thee, but that thou haft condefcended in thyt ).infinite love to covenant with me, and haft:made it fare in every thing.—Now, Lord, Idefire to enter into covenant with thee thisday, in oppofition to all the corruptions ofa body of fin and death that I arn maftercdwith :—I defire, in thy fight, to proteft a-gainft all things in me, or in my family, thatis not like thee—and, this day, to invitethee back to my houl'e on any terms,—anddo not break us udth thy long abfence.—.Come, Lord Jefus, and t tike up thy dwellingamongft us—we are a heartlefs companywithout thee.—Come to the heads, and tellus what is duty, and our duty; and putwork in our hands. Art thou palling by us,as one that hath no more work for us to do ?OLord, I cannot think upon this ; let notour iniquities'put a ftop in thy way: comeover the mountairio of oppofition, and put usto duty, and keep us at duty, and dwell withus. I invite thee to come to my poor babes ;let them be of the little children that thoufuflers to come unto thee. Salvation to himthat appears to be near his clofe : let himhave mercy in, and thro’ a compleat Medi¬ator Chrift ; let thy fympathy and free lovebe extended towards him,—he being one ofthy iufferers, wanting the adminlftration ofthy Sacrament of Baptifm, becaufe of theu n faith fain efs of miniilers. Lord, thouknoweft, that it was not in contempt, of thyholy ordinance that it was wanting; but we( 17 )could not, in our ftation, Ihew in a moreeminent way our diilike to the injuries doneto thee, O Lord, by unfaithful minitiers:all their treachery is well known unto thee.Lord, break the fnares, and let thy poorflock efcape ; and haften the day when mykids fliall feed befide the (hepherd’s tents. Iinvite thee this day to every foul within myfamily; let the work of grace be amongitthem all,--every cue encouraging anotherin the way of duty7, that we may be a littlefanfluary for thee to dwell in—-1 invite thee,O Lord, this day to return to poor cove¬nanted Scotland ; altho’ flie has broken co¬venant with thee, yet thou mutt not give upwith her. Remember thy former lovingIkindnefs to her, and, for thine own name’sS fake, return, return, and deliver. Are not3 enemies rejoicing, that they have gotten ofI the fbns and daughters of Zion to help then*to lay on the grave-flone, to hold down the,\vork? Are not enemies crying. Where isthe covenanted God of Scotland,—and fay-ling, If tins work had been of God, it wouldthave flood : So that all the blood of tiiy peo-fle, and the caufe of God for which theyuflered, is now buried, with the mockery of'bme and joy of others. But thou, who artthe lion of the tribe of Judah, roufe up thy-telf, and let it be known to all nations, thatthe covenanted God of Scotland lives andreigns! O that the refurreftion of thy buried( »3 )work were niore glorious than ever! LetZion’s walls be built again, fo that fhe mayBe beautiful as Tirza, cotnely as ferufaleniyfair as the Moon, clear as the Sim, and terri¬ble as an Jr my with banners : fo that herenemies may tremble ; and her children, whofor a long time have been mourning over herrubbifh, may rejoice in her comely order,and be compaffed about with fongs,—I invitethee to the poor betrayed fcattered fociedesin Scotland, that thou art now juftly con-tending with. The marks of thy displeafureare evidently to be feen in every meeting; anabfent God in every piece of duty ; love andtendernefs much gone ; heart-burnings andcontendings and lukewarmnefs breed nothinglike a pfa&ical work among the moft part, ormaking any progrefs in the way of ChrilK-anity : Is not all this come upon us, becaufeour God is not amongft us! O that thou, OLord, wouideft return and make known forwhat thou art contending, and remove theirfpiritual plagues, and let thy fpiri* be pouredout among the Tinners in Zion, and let themagain behold the King’s face in peace.—I de¬lire to invite thee to every afflicted and wTeariedfoul that is toft, and like to faint on the darkmountains, palling thro’ dark fteps, and noneto Ipeak comfortably unto them, but everyone adding grief to grief. Lord, appear thoufor their help, and fhorten thefe days for theeledft’s fake, left they faint under the burden.( ’9 .and put forth their hands to iniquity.—I de-; fire this day to covenant with thee, in oppo-fition to all the power civil, and eccleliallic,that has eaten out the li^e of Chriflianity, andhands in oppofition to thee and thy precioustruths,—and engage never to own them, tillthev be for thee. This I engage, in theftrength of the Lord.I adhere to all the truths of the Old andNew Teftaments ; and to ail the teftimoniesi of thy people (given by them) for carryingon thy work—I defire to adhere to the nowI buried covenants, and to all the work of re-1 formation which is founded upon thy word,i Lord, help a poor weak infufiicient creature: to hold by this vow ; and in paying vows un¬it o thee, I do this day give up my dear huf-;band unto thee, and all my children, thatI thou mayetl make them for thee, and em-iploy them in thy fervice---be the hazardnvhat it will.1O Lord, take them off my hand, that theyI nay be marked in thy love in that day whenhoii goeft thro’ the land with the devouringword; let them get their fouls for a prey,,nd be found within the bonds of the ever-alting covenant. This is all my defire—*Ijrace in exercife be their portion.C 20 )I do this day folemnly enter into covenantwith thee, Holding up my Hands, vowingto be thine, giving up myfelf unto thee, clof-ing with thee on th»ne own terms, beggingthee to come and put to thy feal to this greatwork : and I defire that this covenant maybe as a fiaff to hold me up from ftaggering onthe dark mountains. Lord, help me to havea practice in fincerity, like one in covenantwith thee. 0 LORD, 1 do lake the Stones inthe wall, and the Timber of the Houfe, to wit-nefs, that ] have given up myfelf, and all mine,unto thee, 0 Lord, this day. As witnefs myhand,At Earlston, 7 Sic Subfcribitur,Jan, 169!. 5JANET HAMILTON- f'lit!I tl' - ' ltd| !S- - . !j !)((.1 ‘111COVENANT ENGAGEMENTS, &c.The third, dated atAirds, June 1695.I Out of the fenfe of my own - weakjieis,and the great falling away of this genera-ion, do defire to renew my covenant engage¬ments. The Lord has been kind unto me ;e has not been a barren wildernefs, nor aand of drought in the day of famine,—heinas fed me in the green paftures. O forgrace to improve ali thy loving kindneffesunto me! Accept of my weak performances,Ivhich I defire to do only in thy ftrength. Onelp me to covenant aright with thee, and topep covenant vows to thee ! I do again give( 22 )\ip all that I have uuto thee. I give up mydear fympathizing hufband to thee : putwork in his hand that may be for thy glory,his fouls comfort, and truth’s advantage,that we may rejoice in thee in the way of thyfalvation. I likewife give up my dear brotherunto thee ; his cafe is known unto thee ;thou haft hitherto helped him, and I defireto believe thou wilt continue thy love. OLord, thou haft given a little flock ; dearand precious Chrift, as thou haft given themunto me, I do freely and folemnly give themback unto thpe, and defire that thou mayeftdifpofe of them at thy pleafiire only, letgrace be given to them, that they may beemployed in their ftations, for thy glory,—and be kept from the abominations of thetime. Do with them as to the world, asthou thinks fit,—only, convey grace downto their pofterity; let them be pleaders forthee, as l have pleaded for them at the throneof grace : this is all my defire, and would bemy comfort to fee. O Lord, come this dayand fmile upon my poor gift, and accept ofthem. I folemnly ftand to all myibrmer en¬gagements, and make a folemn refignationof myfelf unto thee, and defire to clofe withthee on thine own terms. O fet thy fealto it, and condefcend in thy love to let it beregiftrate in heaven, that whatever may bemy cafe or trials, I may have a covenantedih•Ifl:i:iLkk}( 23 )God to run to. Lord, keep me in thy way,and help me to (land by truth. I defire, thisday, to protefi; againft all the encroachmentsmade on thy rights and church privileges:and I defire to proteft, this day before thythrone, againft the foul-murdering courfesof minifters and people adopted : and I defireto proteft againft that horrid abomination ofdefiling the Lord’s Table after fuch an igno¬minious manner.Oh, poor Scotland! what lhall be thyend ? Wrath from on high, for your facrili-gious abominations. I defire this day, tovJ adhere to all thy covenanted truths, foundedon thy holy word.—I defire to mourn overany thing that is in me, or mine, that is of*fenfive in thy fight. O Lord, let us be whol-S ly for thee, acting for thee with a perfe<ftI heart. I defire no longer to have a pofterityI than they are for thee. O Father, Son, andI Holy Ghoft, come and be witnefies to this... i bargain, and clofe with me that defires toclofe with thee, and to be thy covenanted■ child. Here I take all the trees of the wood, andall the works of Creation about me, to witne/s, thatI have given all mine unto thee, not in my jlrengthbut in thine. O Lord Jehovah, to whom Idefire this day to give everlafting praifes, that( 24 )thou haft not fufTered my table to be empty,whilft others are defiling thine. O praife!praife for ever be to thee. As witnefs myhand,At Ax R D s, Sic fubfcribitur,June, 1695.JANET HAMILTON.N. B. If any fufpe<ft this to be vitiate orcounterfeit, they may go to her hufband,who can fhew them the principal, all writtenan4 fubfcribed with her own hand.FINIS.Paijtfyt printed ly J, Neil/on, Cumberland, i8si.