THEV*Negro Servant;AN AUTHENTICNAEKATIVEOf AYOUNG NEGRO;.SHEWINGjw he was made a Slave in Africa, carried to Jamaica; andSold to a Captain in his Majesty'/ Navy ; then ta ken toAmerica, where he became a Christian; and afterwardsbrought to England, aw baptized.EDINBURGH:Printed for the BpoksoHm in Towr and Country.~ 0F SCOTLAND H ■$THENEGRO SERVANT.PART I.During a residence of some years continuance in tl Ineighbourhood of the sea, an Officer in the Navy calle Iupon the Writer, and stated, that he had just taken ||lodging in the parish for his wife and children; anttjiat he had a Negro whom he had kept three years |his service. ‘ The lad is a handy fellow/ said tfOfficer, ‘ and he has a great desire to be baptized;have promised to ask you to do it for him, if you hav,not any objection/« Does he know any thing/ I replied, ‘ of the princi¬ples of the Christian religion ?’* O yes, I am sure he does/ replied the Captain 1* for he talks a deal about it in the kitchen, and oftegets laughed at for his pains ; but he takes it all verpatiently.'‘ Does he behave well as your servant ?'* Yes, that he does: he is as honest and civil a fellow as ever came aboard a ship, or lived in a house.’‘ Was he always so well behaved ?’‘ No/ said the Officer; c when I first had him, hi)was often very unruly, and deceitful; but, for the lasiffltwo years he has been quite another creature.’‘ Well, Sir, I shall be very glad to see him, and thinl,|it probable I may go through a course of instruction ano ieiamination; during which I shall be able to form a1- ■/ ment, how far it will be right to admit him to;ment of baptism. Can he read ?'eplied his Master; *he has been taking green:am to read for some time past, and car;i make out a chapter in the Bible very well, as my maid-servant informs me. He speaks English better than: many of his countrymen : but you will find it a littlei broken. When will it be convenient that I should senditij him over to you ?’‘ To-morrow afternoon, Sir, if you please.’‘ He shall come to you about four o’clock, and youi i shall see what you can make of him.’W7ith this promise he took his leave ; I felt glad of ant: opportunity ot instructing a native of that land whose!' wrongs and injuries had oiten caused me to sigh and11 mourn.At the appointed hour my Negro disciple arrived.I ’ He was a very young looking man, with a sensible, live-(j ly, and pleasing turn of countenance.I desired him to sit down, and said. ‘ Your masterI|informs me, that you wish to have some conversationII with me, respecting Christian Baptism ?’‘ Yes, Sir, me very much wish to be a Christian.I ‘ Why do you w ish so ?’‘ Because me know that Christian go to heaven whenT ihim die.’‘ How long have you had that wish ?' I said.Ever since me Hear that goot minister preach ina J America, two years ago.’1 ; e Where was you born ?’I ‘In Africa. Me was very little boy when me wasl3|"made a slave by the white men.’1 i ‘ How was that ?’‘ Me lelt father and mother one day at home, to go;et shells by the sea-shore . and as I was stooping downo gather them, som£ white sailors came out of a boatnd took me away. Me never see father nor mothergain.’‘ And what became of you then ?’* Me was put into ship, and brought to Jamaica, andsold to a master, who keep me in hi* house to serve24him some years ; when, about three years ago, Capt.W , my master that spoke to you, bought me to behis servant on board of his ship. And he be goot ;master, he gave me my liberty, and me Jive with himever since.‘ And what thoughts had you about your soul all that |time before you went to America ? I asked.f Me no care for my soul at all before then.’‘ Well, now tell me farther what happened to you inAmerica. How came you there ?’* My master take me there in his ship, and stop there ||one month, and then me hear goot minister.’* And what did that minister say ?’f He said, me was great sinner.’ N‘ What! did he speak to you in particular?'c Yes, me think so: for there was great many to hear |him, but he tell them all about me.’' What did he say ?’ |f He say, about all things in my heart.’‘ What things ?’‘ My sin, iby ignorance ; me know nothing, me be¬lieve nothing. The goot minister made me see, thatme think nothing goot, nor do nothing goot.’‘ And what else did he tell you ?’‘ He sometimes look me in the face, and say. Jesus |Christ came to die for sinners, poor black sinners, aswell as white sinners. Me thought this Was very gootindeed, to do so for a wicked sinner.’‘ And what made you think this was all spoken toyou in particular?’‘ Because me sure no such wicked sinner as me in all Ithe place.'‘And what did you think about yourself while he :preached about Jesus Christ ?’‘ Sir, me was very much afraid, when be said the Jwicked must be turned into hell-fire. For me felt thatme was a wicked sinner, and that make me cry. He t[ jk much about the love of Christ to sinr.or.s, and thati|tke me cry more. And me thought me must loveI'Jsus Christ, but me not know how, and that make meI y again.’Vy Did you hear more sernmns than one during that; pnth ?’3 r Yes, Sir, master gave me leave for to go three times,: d all the times me wanted to love Jesus more, and dotat Jesus said; but my heart seem something hardi e a stone.’* Have you heard any preaching since that time' ‘ Never, till me heard sermon at this church last. nda)', and then me long to be baptised in Jesus’ name;j no christain friends to baptize me when' ‘ What have been your thoughts all the time since; pu first heard these sermons in America ; did you tell!iy body then what you felt?’' ‘ No; me speak to nobody but to God then—The>ot minister say, that God hear the cry of the poor ;r i' me cry to God, and he hear me. And me ofteni ink about Jesus Christ, and wish to be like him.’> c Can you read ?’v ‘ A little.’I ‘ Who taught you to read ?’>1 ' God teach me to read.’1 ‘ What do 3'ou mean by saying so?’1 1 ‘ God give nte desire to read, and that make reading'jisy. Master give me a Bible, and one sailor shew me:ie letters, and so me learn to read by myself, with/ od’s goot help.’‘ And what do you read in the Bible ?’t O me read all about Jesus Christ, and how he lov-sinners ; and wicked men kill him, and he died, andme again from the grave ■ and all this for poor Negro.‘ What do the people say about your reading andaying, and attention to the things of God?’36r Some wicked people, that do not love Jesus, cal! ntgreat fool, and Negro dog, and black fn'pocrite. Thamake me sometime feel angry ; but then me rcmembe*Christian must not be angry for that; Jesus Christ waicalled ugly black names, and he was quiet as a lamband so then me remember Jesus Christ, and'me say no^ting.’I was much delighted with the simplicity and ap¬parent sincerity of this poor Negro . and wished to as¬certain what measure of light and feeling he possessed!on a few leading points. St Paul’s summary of religiotroccurred to me ; I said, ‘ Tell me what is faith ? Whatjis your faith ? What do you believe about Jesus, and!your own soul ?’e Me believe that Jesus Christ came into the worldfo save sinners ; and though me be chief of sinnersjyet Jesus will save me, though me be only poor blaclciN egro.’‘ What is your hope? What do*you hope for, both:as to this life and that which is to come ?' Me hope Jesus Christ will keep me from sin and;harm while me live here; and me hope, when me come,to die, to go and live with him always, and never die;again.’‘ What are your thoughts about Christian love orcharity ? Whom or what do you most love?’‘ Me love God and the Father, because he was sogoot to send his Son. Me love Jesus Christ, becausehe love me. Me love all men, black men and whitemen too, for God made them all. Me love all gootChristian people, because .Jesus love them, and they loveJesus.’Such was my first conversation with this young dis¬ciple ; I rejoiced in the prospect of receiving him intothe church, agreeably to his wishes. I wished, however,to converse somewhat farther, and inquire more minute-✓7y into his conduct; and promised to ride over and seepim in a few days, at his master’s lodgings.When he was gone, I thought within myself, GodJ bath indeed redeemed souls by the blood of his Son,out of every kindred and tongue, and people and na-i iltion.’ If many of them for a time are devoted to earth¬ly slavery, through the cruel avarice of man ; yet, bless-jed be God ! that some amongst them are, through Di-i ivine Grace, called to the glorious liberty of the childrenlof God; and so are redeemed from the slavery of himlijwho makes so many captive at his will.It is a happy thought, that ‘ Ethiopia shall soon) i [stretch forth her hands unto God. Sing unto God, ye: kingdoms 6f the earth, O sing praises unto the Lord !’‘ i ‘I will cry unto God most high ; unto God that per-1 Iformeth all things for me.’| My interviews with the Negro suggested the follow-}i|jing lines, which I here subjoin under the title of The\Negro’s Prayer.THE NEGRO’S PRAYER.Jesus, who mak'st the meanest soulAn object of thy care.Attend to what my heart would speak;Hear a poor Negro’s prayer.For thou, when bleeding on the cross.My sins and griefs did’st bear;This mak’st me think thou lt not refuseTo hear a Negro’s prayer.I was a helpless Negro boy,And wander’d on the shore,Thieves took me from my parents’ arms,I never saw them more.48iiut yet my lot, which seem’d so hard,Quite otherwise did prove ;For I was carried far from homeTo learn a Saviour’s love.Poor and despised though I was.Yet thou, O God, was nigh.And when thy mercy first I saw.Sure none so glad as I.In ignorance I long had liv’d,A rebel too had been ;But thy great kindness, O my God ISav’d me from all my sin.Mine was a wretched state, expos’dTo men and angels’ view ;A slave to man, a slave to sin,A slave to Satan too.But if the Son hath made me free.Then I am free indeed ;From power of man, of sin, and hell.For evermore are held.O ! send thy word to that far land.Where none but Negroes live ;Teach them the way, the truth, the life,Thy grace, thy blessing give.O ! that my father, mother dear.Might there thy mercy see;Tell them, what Christ has done for them.What Christ has done for me.Whose God is like the Christian’s God ?Who can with him compare ?He hath compassion on my soul.And hears a Negro’s prayer.Lord Jesus, thou hast shed thy bloodFor thousands such as me:Many despise poor Negro slav^,But I am lov’d by thee.Vj- ■/ .And this is all I want below.To be thy constant care.Keep me from sin and danger. Lord,And hear a Negro’s prayer.In heaven the land of glory lies,If I should enter there,I’ll tell the saints, and angels too,Thou heard’st a Negro’s prayer.THENEGRO AMONG THE ROCKS.I|•> up ; ft:’;•PART II.im Not many days after the first interview with my Negr©ii i disciple, I went from home with the design of convers-|rii ing with him again at his master's house. The road[ lay over a lofty down, or hill, which commands a pros-:h pect of scenery seldom equalled for beauty and magnifi-i cence. It gave birth to silent but instructive meditation.The down was covered with sheep gracing on its pas-i ture. Here and there a shepherd’s boy watched over theol flock committed to his care.^ , On my right hand, to the south and south-east, thetii unbounded ocean displayed its mighty waves. It wascj covered with vessels of every size, sailing in all directions.At the south-west of the spot on which I was riding,:i‘extended a beautiful bay, bounded by high cliffs. Be5>}It)yond this lay a range of hills, which, meeting with ano¬ther from the north, bounds a large fruitful vale, whosefields, now ripe for harvest, proclaimed the goodness ofGod in the rich provision which he makes. I'6r the sons |of men. He prepares the corn, he crowns the vear withhis goodness, and his paths drop fatness. They dropupon the pastures of the wilderness, and the little hillsrejoice on every side. The pastures are clothed withflocks ; the valleys also are covered over with corn ; theyshout for joy ; they also sing.As [ looked upon the numerous ships moving beforeme, I remembered the words of the Psalmist; “ Theythat go down to the sea in ships, that do business in greatwaters ; these see the works of the Lord, and his wondersin the deep. For he command.eth and raiseth the stormywind, which lifteth up the waves. They mount up tothe heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soulis melted because of trouble. They reel to and fro, andstagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end.Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and hebringeth them out of their distresses. He maketh thestorm a cairn, so that the waves thereof are still. Thenare they glad because they be quiet: so he bringeth theminto their desired haven. O ! that men would praisethe Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful workstowards the children of men!” Psalm cvii.As I pursued the meditations which this magnificentand varied scctiery excited in my mind, I approached theedge of a tremendous perpendicular cliff, with which thedown terminates ; I dismounted from my horse, and tiedit to a bush. The breaking of the waves against the fqot ofthe cliff at so great a distance beneath me, produced au in¬cessant and pleasant murmur. The sea-gulls were flyingbetween the top of the cliff where I stood and the rocksbelow, attending ripbn their nests, built in the holes oftl\e cliff. The whole scene, in every direction, was jgfand and impressive it was suitable to devotion. The11!Creator appeared in the works of his creation, and calledion the creature to honour and adore. To the believersi |it is doubly so. He possesses a covenant-right to thejienjoyments of nature and providence, as well as to thei i privileges of grace. His title-deed run thus: “ Alli things are yours ; whether Paul or Apollos, or Cephas,lor the world, or life, or death, or things present or thingsto come ; all are yours, and ye are Christ’s, and Christi is God's.I pc I cast my eyes downwards a little to the left, towardsi a small cove, the shore of which consists of fine dark sand.. lit is surrounded by fragments of rock, chalk cliffs, and■ steep banks of broken earth. Shut out from human in¬tercourse and dwellings, it seems formed for retirement) and contemplation. On one of these rocks 1 unexpected-y observed a miin sitting with a book which he was(reading. The place was near two hundred yards per-iiloendicularly below me, but I soon discovered by hisi dress, and by the black colour of his features, contrastediwith the white rocks beside him, that it was no otherI than my Negro disciple : with, as I doubted not, a BibleI in his hand. 1 rejoiced at this unlooked-for opportunity‘;1 of meeting him in so solitary and interesting a situation,.II descended a steep bank, winding by a kind of rudei, itair-ca.se, formed by fishermen and shepherds’ boys, ini the side of the cliff down to the shore.He was intent on his book, and did not perceive meliiil l approached very near to him.'l l ‘ William, is that you ?Ah! Massa me very glad to see you. How comeassa into this place ? Me thought nobody here, butly God and me.’j j ‘ I was coming to your master’s house to see you, andHrode round by this way for the sake of the prospect,(t often come here in fine weather, to look at the sea, andt|,foe shipping. Is that your Bible ?’I ‘Yes, Sir, that my dear goct Bible ?'6*1211 ’‘ I am slad,' said I, c to see you so well employed,It is a good sign, William.’‘ Yes, Massa, a sign that God is goot to me; butme never goot to God.’‘ How so ?’‘ Me never tank him enough; me never pray to himenough ; me never remember enough who gave me aldese goot tings. Massa, me afraid my heart is very ;bat. Me wish me was like you.’‘ Like me, William ! J^hy, you are like me, a poorhelpless sinner, that must, ,Iike yourself, perish in hi:sins, unless God of his infinite mercy and grace, pluck:him as a brand from the burning, and make him an instance of distinguishing love and favour. There is nodifference ; we have both come short of the glory of Godall have sinned.’ f‘ No, me not like you, Massa; me tink nobody likeme, nobody feel such a heart as me.’‘ Yes, William, your feelings, I am persuaded, are like!those of every truly convinced soul, who sees the ex^eeeding sinfulness of sin, and the greatness of the pricewhich Christ Jesus paid for the sinner’s ransom. Youcan say in the words of the hymn,‘ I the chief of sinners am,‘ But Jesus died for me.’‘ O yes, Sir, me believe that Jesus died for poorNegro. What would become of poor wicked Negro if:Christ no die for him ? But he die for the chief of sinrners, and dat make my heart sometime quite glad.’‘ What part of the Bible were you reading ?‘ Me read how de man upon decross spoke to Christ,and Christ spoke to him. Now dat man’s prayer justdo for me. 4 Lord remember me.’ Lord, rememberpoor Negro sinner; this is my prayer every morning,,and sometime at night too, when me cannot tink ofmanv words, then mesay de same again, Lord, remem¬ber poor Negro sinner.’'413‘ And be assured, William, the Lord hears that prayer.11 He pardoned and accepted the thief upon the cross, and11 he will not reject you; he will in no wise cast out anyl!| that come to him.’‘ No, Sir, I believe it; but there is so much sin inmy heart, it make me afraid and sorry. Massa, do yousee these limpets, how fast they stick to the rocks here ?i just so, sin stick fast to my heart.’‘ It may be so, William ; but take another compari-t son : do you cleave to Jesus Christ by faith in his death; and righteousness, as those limpets cleave to the rock,! i and neither seas nor storms shall separate you from his’ ,ove-'‘ Dat is just what me want.’‘ Tell me, William, is not that very sin which youspeak of a ‘burden to you ? You do not love it ?’‘ O yes ; me give all this world, if me had it, to be[ i without sin.’‘ Come then, and welcome to Jesus Christ, my broth-M er; his blood sleanseth from all sin. He gave himselfsjl as a ransom for sinners. He hath borne our griefs, andi: carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our trans¬gressions ; he was bruised for our iniquities ; the chas¬tisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripeswe are healed. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquityof us all. Come freely, come to Jesus the Saviour ofsinners.’‘ Yes, Massa,’ said the poor fellow, weeping, me will|| come; but me come very slow, very slow: Massa, mek want to run, Jesus is very goot to poor Nego, to sendyou to tell him this.’‘ But this is not the first, time you have heard thesetruths ?’‘ No, Sir, they have been comfort to my soul manytime since me hear goot minister preach in America, asme tell you last week at your house.’‘ Well, now I hope, William, that since God has been14So graciously pleased to open your eyes, and a fleet yourmind with such a great sense of his goodness, in givinghis Sou to die for your sake ; I hope, that you do yourendeavourto keep his commandments. 1 hope jmustriveto behave well to your Master and Mistress, and fel¬low-servants. He that is a Christian inwardly, will bea Christian outwardly, he that truly and savingly be¬lieves in Christ, will shew his faith by his works, as theApostle says Is it not so William ?’‘ Me love my fellow servants, though, as I tell youbefore, they not much love me, and I pray God to blessthem. And when they say bat ting's, and try to’makeme angry, tnen me tink, if Jesus Christ were in poorNegro's place, he would not revile and answer again withbat words and temper, but he say little, and pray much.And so then, rne say nothing at all, but pray God to for¬give them,’The more I conversed with this African convert, themore satisfactory were the evidences of his mind beingspiritually enlightened, and his heart effectually wroughton by the grace of God.I continued for a considerable time in conversationwith the Negro. I spoke to him on the nature, duty,and privilege of Christian Baptism; pointed out f6 himfrom a Prayer-book which I had with me, the clear andscriptural principles of our owti church upon that head,and found that he was very desirous of conforming tothem. He appeared to me to be well qualified for re¬ceiving that sacramental pledge of his Redermer’s love.‘ God,’ said I to him, ‘ has promised to sprinkle manynations, not only with the waters of baptism, but alsowith the dew of his heavenly grace. He says, he willnot only pour water on him that is thirsty, but, ‘ I willpour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessings uponthine offspring.’‘ Yes, Massa,’ said he, * He can make to be cleanin heart, and of a right spirit; he can purge me withhyssop, and I shall be dean ; he can wash »ne, and iishall be whiter than the snow.’I was much pleased with the affectionate manner inwhich he spoke of his parents, from whom he had beenilstolen in his childhood ; and his wishes that God mightIdirectthem by some means to the knowledge of aSaviour.‘ Who knows/ said 1, ‘ but some of these ships may■ be carrying a missionary to the country where they live,:to declare the good news of salvation to your country¬men, and to your own dear parents in particular, if they;are yet alive.'‘ O ! my dear father and mother; my dear graciousSaviour ! ’ exclaimed he, leaping from the ground as heispoke, ‘ if thou wilt but save their souls, and tell themwhat thou hast done for sinners—but,—He stopped, and seemed much affected.* My friend/ said I, * I will now pray with you for, your own soul, and for those of your parents also/‘ Do, Massa, (Sat is very gbot and kind, do pray forpoor Negro souls here and every where.’This was a new and solemn house of prayer. The> sea-sand was our floor, the heavens were our roof; theI cliffs, the rocks, the hills, and the waves, formed the' 'i walls of our chamber. It was not indeed a place wherei prayer was nonl to he made ; but, for this once, it be-i came a hallowed spot: it will by me ever be rememberedas such. The presence of God was there,—-I prayed;f the Negro wept—his heart was full.—I felt with nim,ii and wept likewise.The last day will shew, whether our tears were not thetears of sincerity and Christian love.It was time for my feturn. 1 leaned upon his arm aswe ascended the steep cliff in my way back to my horse,which 1 had left at the top of the hill. Humility andi thankfulness were marked in his countenance. I leanedupbH his arm with the feelings of a brother. It was arelationship I was happy to own—I took him by the hand1I16at parting, appointed one more interview previous to theday of baptizing him, and bid him farewell for thepresent.* God bless you, my dear Massa.’‘ Aivd you, my fellow Christian, for ever and everAmen.’THENEGRO'S VISIT TO THE COTTAGE.PART III.The very interesting and affecting conversations, whichI had with the Negro Servant, noticed in the two formparts, produced a sensation not easy to be expressedAs I returned home, I ijas led into meditation on the sin*gular clearness and beauty of those evidences of faith andjconversation to God, which I had just seen and heard.How plainly, 1 thought, it appears, that salvation is free-ly by grace through faith; and that not of ourselves, itis the gift of God ; not of works, lest any man shouldboast. What but the Holy Spirit, who is the author andgiver of the life of grace, could have wrought such schange from the once dark, perverse, and ignorant heath¬en, to this now convinced, enlightened, humble, and be-Jilieving Christian ?I afterwards made particular inquiry into this youngman’s domestic and general deportment. EverythingI beard was satisfactory; nor could I entertain a doubirespecting the consistency of his conduct and characterI had some.farther conversations with him; in the courseof,which I pursued such a plan of Scriptural instructiorand examination, as I conceived to be the most suitableto his progressive statej>f mind. He improved much mt17i reading, carried his Bible constantly in his pocket, and[ took every opportunity, which his duty to his master’sr service would allow, for perusing it.1 I had for a considerable time been accustomed to meetr some serious persons once a-week, in a cottage at no! great distance from the house where he lived, for the pur-i lose of religious conversation, instruction, and prayer.' Having found these occasions remarkably useful, and in-: cresting to myself and others, I thought it would be[ /ery desirable to take the Negro there, in order that; here might be many witnesses to the simplicity and sin¬cerity of real Christianity, as exhibited in the character>f this promising young convert.I accordingly obtained his master’s leave,thathe should: ttend me to one of my cottage assemblies. As I ap-j iroached the house, I saw my friend the Negro sitting^nder a tree, and waiting my arrival. He held in hisi nand a little Tract which I had given him; his Bible lay, n the ground. He rose with much cheerfulness, saying,'] ‘ Ah Massa, me very glad to see you, me tink youtong time coming.’1 ‘ William, I hope you are well. I am going to takeu’ou with me to a few of my friends, who, I hope, areIso the friends of the Lord. We meet every Wednesdayl ivening for conversation about the things that belongi.o our everlasting peace, and I am sure you will be a:i Welcome visitor.’f ‘ Massa, me not goot enough to be with such goot peo-.Je. Me great sinner. They be good Christian.’’ ‘ If you were to ask them, William, they would eachfell you, they were worse than any body. Many of(iipem were once, and that not very long ago, living in aItefy openly sinful manner, ignorant of God, and thernemies of Jesus Christ by thought and deed. But Di-9line Grace stopped them in their wicked course, andrvbdued their hearts to the love and obedience of him;nd his Gospel. Yon will only meet a company of poorfellow sinners, who love to speak and sing the praises ofredeeming love: and, I am sure, William, that is a songyou will be willing to join them in.’‘ Yes, Sir, dat song just do for poor William.’ Bythis time we had arrived at the cottage garden gate-Several well known faces appeared in and near the house,and the smile of affection welcomed us as we entered.It was known that the Negro was to visit the littleSociety this evening, and satisfaction beamed in everycountenance, as I took him by the hand and introducedhim among them, saying, ‘ I have brought a brotherfrom Africa to see you, my friends. Bid him welcomein the name of the Lord Jesus Christ’‘ Sir,’ said an humble and pious labourer, whose heartand tongue always overflowed with Christian kindness,* we have heard how gracious the Lord has been to him.Give me your hand, goojd friend, (turning to the Negro,)God be with you here and every where; and blessed behis Holy Name for calling wicked sinners, as I hope he nhas done vou and me, to love and serve him for hismercy's sake.’ Every one greeted him as became intothe house, and some addresed him in very kind and im¬pressive language.c Massa,’ said he, * me not know what to say to alldese goot friends; me tink this look like little heavenupon earth.’It was my stated custom, when I met to conversewith those friends, to begin with prayer and reading a )portion of the Scriptures.When this was ended, I told the people present, that !the Providence of God had brought this young man for |a time under my ministry; and that finding him very |sincere in his religious profession, I had resolved on |baptising him, agreeably to his own wishes. I added, [that I had now brought him with me to join in Christian ||conversation with us.Addressing myself to the Negro, I said, * William,tell me who made you?'‘ Got, the goot Father.’‘ Who redeemed you ?’‘ Jesus, his dear Son, who died for me.’* Who sanctified you ?’‘ The Holy Ghost, who teach me to know the gootFather, and his dear Son Jesus.‘ What was your state by nature ?’‘ Me wicked sinner, me know noting but sin, me donoting but sin ; my soul more black tan my body.’' Has any change taken place in you since then ?'* Me hope so, Massa, but me sometime afraid no.’‘If you are changed, who changed you?’‘ Got the good Father, Jesus his dear Son, and Gotthe Holy Spirit.’‘ How was any change brought about in you ?’* Got make me a slave when me was young little boy.’* How, William, would you say, God made you ai! slave ?’‘No, Massa, no; me mean God let me be made aslave by white men, to do me good.’! ‘ How to do you good ?’‘ He take me from the land of darkness, and bringme to the land of light.’‘ Which do you call the land of light; the West IndiaIslands ?'‘ No, Massa, they be the land of Providence ; butAmerica be the land of light to me; for there me firstShear goot minister preach.’* What does the blood of Christ do ?’‘ It cleanse from all sin. And so me hope from my(ij sin.’‘ Are then all men cleansed from sin by his blood ?’* Oh, no, Massa.’‘ Who are cleansed and saved ?*j ‘ Those that have faith in him.’‘ Can you prove that out of the Bible ?’20* Yes, Sir; " he that believeth on the Son hath ever¬lasting life; and he that believeth not the Son shall notsee life, but the wrath of God abideth on him,” Johniii. 36.’‘ What is it to have faith !’* Me suppose that it is to link much about Jesus Christ,to love him much, to believe all he says to be true, andto pray to him very much.’* And have you such a faith as you describe?’* Oh ! Massa, me link sometime me have no faith.’‘ Why so, William ?’‘ When me want to tink about Jesus Christ, my mindrun about after other things : when me want to love him,my heart seem quite cold ; when me want to pray, thedevil put bat, very bat thoughts into me, and me nevertank Christ enough. Now all this make me sometimeafraid I hnve no faith.’I observed a very earnest glow of attention and fellow-feeling in some countenances present as he spoke thesewords. 1 then said,‘ I think, William, I ran prove that you have faith,notwithstanding your fears to the contrary. Answer mea few more questions.’* Did you begin to think yourself a great sinner, andto feel the want of a Saviour, of your own self, and byyour own thought and doing?’e Oh ! no, it came to me, when me tink noting aboutit, and seek noting about it.’‘ Who sent the good minister in Ameriea to awakenyour soul by his preaching ?’‘ Got,, very cetainly.'‘ Who then began the work of serious thought apdfeeling in your mind.’« The goot Got; me could not do it of myself, mesure of that.'‘ Do you think that Jesus Christ and his salvation isthe one thing mos’t needful and most desirable?’'21','S* r** Oh, yes ! me quite sure of that/‘ Do you not believe that he is able to save you ?’/ He is able to save to the uttermost.’‘ Do you think that he is not willing to save you ?’? * Me dare not say that. He so goot, so merciful, hei 11 not cast out any that come to him.’I ‘ Do you w4ih, and desire, and strive, to keep his com-fandments ?’‘ Yes, Massa, because me love him, and that make metnt to do as he say/\ ‘ ire you willing to suffer for his sake, if God shouldt use you to do so ?’!! ‘ Me do .ink me could die for the love of him ; he noti ik it too much to die for wicked sinner; why shoulds eked sinner tink it too much to die for so goot and) ,hteous a Saviour ?’1 * I think, and hope, I may say to you, William, thyith hath made thee whole.’!■ Thus ended my examination for the present.—Theher friends who were in the house listened with theost affectionate anxiety to all that passed. One of:em observed, with evident emotion,‘ I see. Sir, that though some men are white, and somec e black, true Christianity is all one colour. My ownirart has gone with this good man every word he has) iloken/I i After some time passed in conversation on the Negro’sr story, I said, ‘ Let us now praise God for the rich and(Jispeakable gift of his grace, and sing the hymn of re-Kerning love.m Now begin the lovely theme,Sing aloud in Jesus name, &c.I'l The Negro was not much used to our way of singing,j ;t joined with great earnestness and affection, that show-ill how truly he felt what was uttered. When the 5thlurse was ended,Nothing brought him from above.Nothing but redeeming love;22he repeated the words, unconscious where he was, ‘ N<noting but redeeming love bring him down to poor Wiinoting bur redeeming love.’The following verses were added, andconclusion:See, a stranger comes to view ;Tho’ he's black, he’s comely too:Comes to join the choirs above.Singing of redeeming love.Welcome, Negro, welcome here.Banish doubt, and banish fear,You, who Christ s salvation prove.Praise and bless redeeming love.I concluded, with some remarks on the nature of sal|vation by grace, and exhorted all present to press forWariin the heavenly race. It was an evening, the c:rcuirlstances of which, if they had never been recorded on eaitlilwere yet doubtless registered in the book of rcmembraueabove.In a few days the Negro was baptised ; and not lornafter he went on a voyage with his master.Since that I have not been able to hear any tidings chim. Whether he yet wanders as a pilgrim in this Iowaworld, or whether he has joined th? heavenly choir in thisong of redeeming love in glory, I know not. This I dknow, he was a monument to the Lord s praise. He borthe impression of the Saviour’s image on his heart, amexhibited the marks of converting grace in his life amconversation, with singular simplicity and unfeigned sincerity.sung by way <■0 f give glory to God.THENEGRO'S COMPLAINT.Forced from home and all its pleasures,Afric’s coast I left forlorn ;To increase a stranger’s treasures.O’er the raging billows borne.Men from England bought ami sold me.Paid my price in paltry gold ;But, though theirs they have enroll’d me.Minds are never to be sold.Still in thought as free as ever.What are England’s rights, I ask.Me from my delights to sever.Me to torture, me to task ?Fleecy locks and black complexionCannot forfeit nature’s claim ;Skins may differ, but affectionDwells in white and black the same.Why did all-creating natureMake the plant for which we toil ?Sighs must fan it, tears must water,Sweat of ours must dress the soil.Think, ye masters iron-hearted.Lolling at your jovial boards;Think how many backsThave smartedFor the sweets your cane affords.Is there, as ye sometimes tell us.Is there one who reigns on high ?Has he bid you buy and sell us.Speaking from his throne the sky?Ask him, if your knotted scourges.Matches, blood-extorting screws.24Are the means which duty urgesAgents of his will to use?Hark ! he answers—-wild tornadoes.Strewing yonder sea with wrecks;Wasting towns, plantations, meadows;Are the voice with which he speaks.He, foreseeing what vexationsAfric’s sons should undergo,Fixed their tyrants’ habitationsWhere his whirlwinds answer—no.By our blood in Afric wasted,Ere our necks received the chain;By the miseries that we tasted,Crossing in your barks the main ;By our sufferings, since ye brought usTo the man-degrading mart;All sustained by patience, taughtOnly by a broken heart;Deem our nation brutes no longer.Till some reason ye shall findWorthier of regard, and strongerThan the colour of our kind.Slaves of gold, whose sordid dealingsTarnish all your boasted powers,Prove that you have human feelings,Ere you proudly question ours 'finis.