TH£ SCOI iiMedley:A Love Song.THEBonny Beds of Rofes.And, The Broom ofCowden Knows.FALKIRK T. JOHNSTON, fRiNTE1"lSl3*THEs C O TS MEDLEY.A* I c*me in h,y Ca!der-?*ir,And yont the Lappard-Iee, man;There was braw JstJling there;Con:e. bnft and kill wi’ me, man :Th»re w** highland folk and law’and folk,Unco io k and kend folk,Folk abc on. f~ik i’ the ysid ■,1 here s nre o !k :k-* t ur a n folk,fu dum &cHech, hey I BefTy Bril,Kdtycur cut M.ggy;T* s ger i ne » gown,Down the hurt D.vie.The Esrl o Ma' ’s bonny thing,^ Atid mu k’• baokii walUt;1 Ly the f?me thing o’er again,And down the .urn for aV .t - D rirnn&cGin ve h:d born wh te I ha’c been,Vc wadna been fae w ntin’;I g-u the iang girdin oh,^An I fell thro* the gantrin.O er the h'.IU and far awa’.My bonny winKme Willie;What lhal) cur gudtman lie?The great Earl o’ Kellie.Toddle butt, »nd toddla .ben,Hey, Tam Brandy;Dirum, &c.( 3 )Crack a laufe on Maggy’s wymc, ■Little Cockey Benny.There’s three llteep’s fk'ns,The bn her and his baibo,The bonny lafs o’ Pcatie’s mill,wi’ the free and accepted mifon, D.'rutn^e,On Etrick hanks, se Simmer’* night,The cliffy rocks in view, man;Kith’rine Ogie got a fright,’Ming ScotlKid’s belle fae blue. man.O waly, waly, up yon word,A.'d down by bpnny Yarrow ;The Lffie loft her Silken fnoodWd \Yillis, her winfome marrow. Dir &c.Stately ftapt he cast the wa’,"1 he lad I darena name, nun ;Dawn the burn, Davie Love,Wi’ Jessie o’ Duniblane, man.In winter when the rain rain’d cauld, ’ ~Will brew’d a peck o’ mauf, man;John Anderfon'ye?re turning aufd,Pu a fheep’s head i* the pat, man. Bir.&s,1 he tailor cam to clou: the e'aif*Upon a I >amm*s night, man,Wlnca cauj'd the battle o’ the Her.*,And thew’d M-Craw’s great might, mia.Jmn Pam (cm at the key.hole keeks,My Wife’s a wanton panky •Sh* s c or.mg Johnny’s grey breeks,taid Bet's (he’s bur a giwkis. Daunt( 4 )In Fife there liv’d a \v:cked Wife,And fhe has ti’en the gee, man;Ttie door-barring caus’d the flrife,And Sandy o’er the lee, naan.Tarry woo frae Tweedside cam,Frae Aberdeen cauld kail man,Made gude Scotch brofe to fill our wame ;Could Donald M Donald fail,man? Dir.&c.Should auld acquaintance be forgot ?Sae merry’s we hae been, man !Yet ftill on Menie’s charms 1 float,At Pol wart on the green, man.Willie Was a wanton Wag,And pufti’d about the jorurn ;While Rib the Ranter burit his bag,Playing the Reel o’ Yullochgorum.* Diruin dim, &c.M d-V-H-H-■H'“+*1” H-H--H W-H+-A LOVE SONG.Hard by a dear river, in the fweet month of May,In fearch of my true love I happen’d to llray,I heard a young damfel there loudly complain,In forrow, for parting from her darling iwain.O cruel parents wherever you be,That banilh’d my darling fweet JamU from me,No other rnan breathing my favou? fhall gam,The pnch. of ^1 nature’s my own darling fwam.( 5 )Thro’ lonely w ild defarts and hills I’ll roarn,To wild birds and fiihes I’ll make my moan;All riches and grandeur 1 now will difdain,Thro’ the world I’ll wander for my darling Twain.Hisbreathii more fweet than the rofes i« June,His eyes are 1 ke diamonds, or orbs of the moon,His fkin’s like clear amber, juft from the mine,He’s cut up to perfection, my own darling Twain.My love he is proper, he’s tall, and he’s trim;There is none in the world that can tqral him;Ail Torrow and trouble I’ll endure without pain,Wa« I fure to meet with my darling Twain.My father he thought then his point for to gain,By parting his daughter from her darling Twain;But yet, for to vex him, I ever will btJamie’s true and conftant youngGragal M^c ree«BONNY BEDS OF ROSES*I was a-wilking one moniing in Map,The fmall birds were Tinging deligt tfui and gny,There I with my true-love did oft fpori and play,Down amongft the bonny beds of Rofes.My pretty brown girl, come fit on my knee.For tr,ere*« none in ’he world I can fan y but thee,Nor will I ever change my old love for a new,So my pretty brown girl, do not leave me.( 6 )My daddy and mammy they often us’d to fiy,That I was a naughty boy, and us’d to run away.If they bid me go to work,I wou’d looner go topi sy,Down amor git the bonny beds of roles.| If I had ten thoufand bright guineas laid in (tore,I would give it all to the girl 1 adore,I would give it all, and twice as much more,And a chariot of gold for to ride in.No nymph on the p'ain with my lovecsn compare,With a comb let with diamond - I’ll plait up her hairOf all love’s tpjoymants my love (he lhall (hare,Down among ! the banny bitds of rofes,N ere* ure on earth is fo hsppy as me,Whi amv c iinning yejung girl is let on my knee,A fin e i-r s k.f* tiring fr*4h pleifure t» me,i> wn am nglt rh« honny beds of refes.My daddy maj' ft er and my mammy-may frown,F*r to walk with rm t: ue-love I’ii venture alone,Fait lock’d in my •, ail one love we will own,Do:'. n amongtl the bonny beds of rofes.If evet-1 mirry. I’ll marry in M y,When die flowers are fpringing,delightful 8c gay,my ttuabve and I will dame, ling and play,Down amorgdi the bonny beds ot idles.( 7 )Then iwty to lh* church we’I! walk with an airK"i4 Hytner. proclaim us to be the hapm pair 'H,r bofoml w.l! pref, and her chains Iwfilwea'r,Diwn amongll the bonny beds of rofesA* we were a-wa’king on- morning in Spring,1 he wmtw going out. and .he fdturner coming fn.The cuckow iang cuckcw. you’re weir dm* Sgi,nAnd 1 pray you ftay among thefe green bules.4o-|o[ojojofcjojoioiojojojojo^o{broom OF COWDEN knows.0 'r om .he bonny. S.K.n> broom,rile br.wmi of be Cow I*./Knows;1 w-,1 I were w 'h -nv dear Twain,' Milking my da ‘dy’s ewesHorn blithe i k rrorn waa I to feeM fwa-n come o’er the^.nl,He b-p d the burn a.aJ fltw ,0 meI met him wi^h good will.He tun’d his pipe and reed fae fwset,1 he birds ltoo-1 liti’ning bvEven the dg 1 cattle (food amsz’d,Charm d with hi melody.1 ^ Wjn?ei! e-ve nor lamb'f''bile hi* flock near mr Uy,r» gather • u, my ftet p at y’en.And cheer’d me all tne day.( <? )He die! oblige me every hour,Could I but thankful be ?He ftole my heart!—Con'd I refufeWhatt’er he afk’d of me iWhile thus we fpent our time by turns,Betwixt our flocks and play,I envy’d rot the fauefl darae,Tho’ ne’er fo rich and gay.Hard fate ! that I fliould banifli’d be.Gang heavily and mourn,Becaufe I love the kinddl Twain,That ever yet was born.Adieu, ye CowiVrt Knovti adiea!Farewel al pleatures ther*lYe gods reltore me to my Twain,Is all I crave or care.FINIS.ralkirt—T.J'jknstsn Printer.