A Full and TrueA C C O U N TOF T H EBIRTH, LIFE, and DEATH,O FJUDAS ISCARIOT*Who was the S"*n of Simon, and of theTribe and Lineage of Benjamin.Shewing how his Mother *war foretold by a dreamtt\>at Jhe -would bear a Son that -would betray theSaviour of the ll'erld: how his Father thought teprevent it, by putting him in a Jmall Boat, andcommitting him to the Seas; how he was fo <ndby Jme tifhermen that belonged to the Ifland. ofIfccriot, how a Prince brought him-p and madehim his Son’s Companion; how he tr eacheroufydrovned the Prince’s Sony and for fear of aifcovery fled to the Land of Canaan wher. hekilled his own father, and married his Mother gafterwards but rayed our bleffed Lord and ir.ivi*ou r JeJus Chrifl; laji of all, how he hanged, hint'ft If, and his Bowels gujhed out,9 fGLASGOW:Printed and Sold by J. & J. ROBERTSON.M, DCC, LXXVL2 ■*A Full and true AccountLife, andDeath of Judas Iscariot r who was the Sonof SIMON, and of the Tribe and Lineage ofBENJAMIN, 6c.HISTORIANS give an^ccount, that Simqnthe Father of Judas, livcd^n a fea-port'townin the land of Canaan, and married to a kinf•woman of his own, which wasalfoof the tribe ofBenjamin, being f cuftom, and allowed among theJews to this day. Now when Simon’s wife waswith child, Ihe dreamed two dreams in one night,and both her dreams were to the fame efftfl (re-fembling that of Jofeph’s and Pharaoh’s) whichis obfervable among the Jews, that if one flioalddream twice, and both^to the fame effect, that itwill certainly come to pafs: After this, fhe wasmuch troubled, and difconfolate in mind thar fhecould not eat or drink as (he bad wont to do, info-much that her hufband taking notice that fte wasout of order, afked the reafon of her grievance,and why fhe was fb fad and' melancholy ? Nowfhe being loath to tell him, left it fliould grievehim alfo, (he waved |^e difcourfe w^S a({ind offilent anfwer, and faid ifhe ailed nothing,tioflp-md obferving her countenance ftill fad' didmuch intreat her to fatisfy him, why it was fb withher. At iafl: fhe told Vim, that fhe dreamed twodreams in one night,1 and both her dream? wereto the fame effeft: and that w..*, That fhe'fhquldbring forth that chiM. which was in htr womb,arui that he ihould betray the Saviour of the world,and that was the ca^fe of her great grief md dif-content^ Her hcfbatid being math siftommed. atthe exprcflions of his wife and her dreams, fioodIbrae-fbmewhat amaz<x1 at the faying, and after a littleconfideratipn ftrove to. perfuade his wife to be con¬tented,^ and not to grieve and pine herfeif away fbas fhe did, and he would find a way after the childwas born to prevent this. So when the time was? fulfilled, fhe was brought to bed of a fixong lively£Z£o?h:*z;!iz r-;f%I Hie caufe of her forrow ‘’-'Z f ^ '*’aS| any ^Ithe cofe as fte kZTof. Z u LJ n°’ ,K Was noi•o know, a, laft ttie ,old himglK.tTb.Jwrb.8!Ee wit ^ h “f-'" “friends, that a boat Ihoulded ott with1?flon’ ll[l(1>M’d’s bl,lns wa! knock-den Tht r l "S he WaS WaIkinS ^ his gar*j!^r[tSf]ookned uP°n «i jaft>dgmem for-me i„ mbd of my chifrS y,°Ur back> 5t Puther lamentable ftory^ecry’d^out Oh? ^ ^So Swan to hrr u ^ i * ^ the man!boat at fea, by feme LS'w Wat,aken in a• Ilcaric. and I keSir. ,‘Ld 5 bd,0!’3 >» 'k<- 'Hand of■.be prince Z S^s tt hi[ k0'V killedand he was the raai, ,h,t' 'bat,hr«"«ll> him up;the than that was hi</h’hcrt‘1''?saS h''fnderftoodJ am niarricd to you myC 3 1v fomewhat amazed at the (aying, and after a littleconfideiation ftrove to perfuade his wife to be con-teujed,* and not to grieve and pine herfelf away foas'lhe did, and he would find a way after the childn to prevent this. , So when the time wasfhe was brought to bed of a %£>ng■’ ’ - w- »- - w>n - ' ”iri the Father of Judas, Jived'in a fea-port-townin the land of Canaan, and married to a kinf-woman of his ownj which was alfo of the tribe ofBenjamin, being a cuOom, and allowed among thpJew’s to this day. Now when Simon’s wife waswith child, fhe dreamed two dreams in one night,and both her dreams were to the fame effctt (re-(embling that of Jofeph’s and Pharaoh’s) whichis obfervable among the Jews, that if one fhoalddream twice, and both to the fame effeft, that itwill certainly come to pafs: After this, fhe wasmuch troubled, and difconfolate in mind thax fhecould not eat or drink as fhe bad wont to doj info-much that her hufband taking notice that fie wasout of order, afked the reaibn of her gritvance,and why the was lb fad and' melancholy ? Nowfhe being loath to tell him, led it fliould grievehim alfb, (he waved Jfre difeourfe a^ind offilent anfwer, and faid fhe ailed nothing, ^wt/ftexhodnnd-obferving her countenance dill fadi didmuch intreat her to fnUfy him, why it was fb withher- . At lad flic told %im, that fhe dreamed twodreams in one night,: and both her dream? wereto the fame efTeft: and that was, That fhe (houldbring forth that child, which a as in her womb,and that he ihould betray the Saviour of the, world,ar.d that was the cafife of her great grief (iid dif-content^ Her luifband being much adoni.aedv atthe cxprdTions of' his wife and her dreams, hood. - Ibrae-wno i<«pn Bfiv iv» wen, tnai nc ai-tucH atten^Rrce as his own Ton had 'ir ff*'iK-zvonrirr nrince, i1-Kow at one time when they were both in bed,Judas called for a (hirt to (hift hinifelf, as he tookoff his (hiit, fhe cfpied a black (pot upon his back,the fame form, and in the fame manner as her fonhad, that her firft hi (band (ent in a boat adrift tothe (ea ; at which (he gave a great ligh, and roleout of bed, when (lie was at dinner fhe could eatno meat, but was very melancholy and fad, Judasfeeing her fo> afketi her very earneftly what wasthe matter of her trouble, or if he was any waysI the enufe of her forrow ? She {aid no, he was notUhe c-mfe as {he knew of; (b he being very etffneftto know, at lad (he told him. That (he dreamedtwo dreams, when (he wis firft with child, that thechild that was in her womb, (hould betray the Sa¬viour of tlje world. Aftet the child was born, beingtwo or three months old, my hufband and I con-(mted, with the advice of friends, that a boat (houldbe built, and ordered all manner of conveniencyon board of it; and alfo with his name written inapiece of paper pinned at his bread, and fet theboat and him adrift to the mercy of the feas. Andnot two years ago, my hufbmd’s brains was knock¬ed ott with a ftone, as he was walking in his gar*den. This l looked upon as a juft judgment forw! '-v..") barbaroufly with an innocent child: andWhen 1 faw the bk<ck fpot, upon your back,' it putme in mind of my child: Now when Judas heardher lamentable (lory he cry’d out, Oh I am the manjSo began to tell jier how that he was taken in aboat a) fea. by foirse that did belong to the illand ofIfcaric/., and l.kewife told her how he had killed'the prince of Kcariot’s fon, that brought him up;and he was the man that killed as he underftoodthe man that was his father in the garden ; now\ I am married to you my rndther; and fo came a-wayc 8 3>vay from her, vfeeing dmoft in a derpairing condi-‘‘v^iion as did at Jaft. So abpat this time, ourblefed Lord and Saviour bega-n publickly to preachitbrgi”eners of fins to all that wouJd believe in thename of God, though the fin be' never fo heineousand criminal.Judas hearing the power of Jefus, and knowingbimfelf to be a notorious finner, as the worft ofmen fometimes may have good thoughts, whentaken to be one of the apoftles. Note, Our bleflldLord and Saviour knew what he was, and what hewould be, there lie was accepted, and there con¬tinued for a while, bur it was no longer than b:found an opportunity to hetray our Saviour Ghrifijand he fold him for thirtj pieces of filver.After that he repented of that horsid wbfrfiwas worfe than all the rtft that he did in his lift,and then fell into defpairplPmcrcy with God. Ni¬ter that he went obt and, iianged himfelf, and all Msbowels gu(bed out.It i* known when a mnlefaftor commas hightrealbn ngainft the king, that the cxecutionen lipsopen his belly, *nd takes out his heart, and ho dsit in bis hand, in view of all the fpdflators, c^ing,There behold the heart of a traitor; And forjudaiwho was a traitor to the Xing of kings, it- w* ncwonder that the ream of his belly did burft afundenthat all who pafcd by mighl behold his treacherous;heart.FINIS.