THEScots Piper’s Queries,OR,John Falkirk’s Cariches.TO WHICH ARE ADDED,His Comical and Witty Jo/kes,When in Courtfiiip with an old FidlePsWido\v, who wanted all the Teeth.Old 'John Piper, if ytu detireTo rs,id at leasure ly the fire ;’Twill please ibe bairns., andkeep them laughing,And mind the Auld Goodwife o' fscr daffng.JUtuiu tU uCioi mug i<jk 1 U< V OF SCOTUND' -+^4-44r+T-A f+44-*l4Hf-fJohn Palkiik’s-CARICHES.i 7hi - Catechism deserves no Creed,Jrs only for li.ys ivho nil/ not read; On n iser huofythem to instruO :Lit droll John their fancy cook.I Q: t '""HAT is the v/ifefl fcebaviour^ of.ignorsnt perfone ?A. T»,’peak of nothing but what theyknow, and to give their opity m of nothingbut what they underfiand.Qi What time is a folding wife atthe be ft ?A. When fhe is fall alleep.Q_ What time is a fcolding wife atthe v. orit-?A. When flie is that vyicked as to t-arthe hair nut of her own head, whenget at her neighbours, and throughperfcft fpke bites her own tongue wuhher own teetli; n»y heany wifli is that?all fuch wicked vipers may ever d<l fo.What is the elFedtnal Cure and infal¬lible remedy for a fcolding wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of thehearing of her; but the infallible remedyis to nail her tongue to a growing tree,in the beginning of a cold winter night,and fo let it hand till fun-rifing nextmorning ; then file’ll become one t.f thepeaceablefl women that ever lay bya man’s fide.What time of the year is it thatthere are moft holes open ?A. In harvefi, when there are Rubbles.Qi -A-t wh.ft time is the cow heaviefi .?A: When the bell is on her back.Who was 'the goodmards mucklecow’s calf’s nv thc« ?A. The muckle cow herfdf.Q/W hat is the likefi thing to a manand a horfe ?A. A Lay hr and a mare.Q. W hat is the horded dinner that evena ta! r laid his teeth to ?A. Ills own goofe, though ever fowell boil’d or roalUd.( 4 )How many toad’s tails will it taketo reach up to the moon ?A. One if it be long enough.Q, How many 1 Vicks gangs to theblgging of a craw’s neft ?A. None, for they are all carried.Q, How many whites will a well madepun'ding prick need ?A. If it be well made, it needs m mare.(X Who was the father of Z~bedee’schild reHl ? A. Zebedee him ft:If.Q. W^ere did Mc-fes go when he wasfull fifteen years old ?A. Into his fifteenth.Q. H >W n^ar related is your aunty’sgoodbr ther to you ?A. He is roy father.Ho\v many h les are there ina hen’s duup l Twt)*H w pr^ vc yon (hat ?a! There is one fur the dung, andanother f-r the e^g*W!'*t is the bell method of catch¬ing r gues ?A There is none & fit as a rogueJiimfelf..Q. Where was the uftfuleft.fair inScotland kept ?( 5 >A. At Mullgay.Q. Whaf fort of commodities werefold there ?A. N >thing but a^e and wicked wives.Q- 'How was it ab lifhed ?A. Becaufe thofe who went to it oncewould go to it r.o more.Q. For what reafon ?A. Becaufe thtre was no money to begot for them, but fair barter, wife forwife; and he who put away a wife fot;one fault, got a wife with two as bad.CV What was the reafon that inthofe days a man could put away hiswife for piffing the bed, and not forih g it ?A. Becaufe he could fhute it awaywith his foot and ly down.Q. What is the reafon now a-daysthat men court, caft, marry, and re¬marry lo many wives, and^keep onlybut one in public at laft ?A. Becaufe private marriage is be¬come as common as fmugglnig, andcuckolding the kirk no more thought otthan a man to ride a rryle or two uponhis neighbour’s mare! Men get willand wale of wives; the be!l portion and( 6 )props reft psrfon \t preferred, tfie firft lefr,the weak to the word; and ike whomhe,d;>es not love lie puts away, and liesdown with whom he pleafes.; /“How will one know the bairns of.cur town by all others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill breeding, and badmanners.Q. V7hat is-their behaviour ?A. If you alk them a queftion in civi¬lity, if it were but the road to the nexttown, they’ll tell you to follow your nofe,and if ye go wrong curfe the guide.Are.young and old of them alike ?A. AU the odds lies in the difference;for if you afk a child to whom he belongs,or who is his father, he’ll bid you kifshis father’s a——.(X What fort of creatures is kindlieftwhen they meet ?A. None can exceed the kindnefs ofdogs, when they meet in a market.And what is Collie’s conduct there ?A. Firlt fthey kifs ether’s mouths andnofes, fmell all about, and lalt of all,they are fo kind, as to kil’s other belowthe tail.( 7 )Q. What is the coldeft part of a chg ?A. His iv fe.What is the coldefl part of a man ?A. His knees.Ck What is the coldeft part cf awoman ?A. The back part of her b dy.CT What is the reafon that theie threepavts of men, women, and dogs, arecoldeTt ?A. Fabulous hidorians fay, that therewas three little holes in N ah’s ark;and'that the dog flopt his nofe in one,and another the wian pot his knee in it;and the third and biggdl h >le, the womanbang’d her baokfiie into it ; and thefeparts being expofed to the cold 'blafc,makes them always cold ever fmce.What remedy d es the man take,for warming his cold knees ?A. He holds th em towards the fire ;and when its bed, draws his' Ihirt downever them.Q? What d .es the women-do,'to' warmtheir cold parts ? " 'A. 'I he married women turn :: - rbacklide ab at to the good its rta’s hch • :Virgins, and thofe going mad f:r n:.i -r;ag2, t!is heat cf their maidenhead keepsthem warm; old matrons, whirl’d o’ermaidens, widows, and widows bewitch’d,hold up their coldell parts to the fire.Qi And vvhat, remedy does the poordog take lor his cold nofe ?A. He Haps it below his tail, theIiottefi; bit in his body.CX What >s the reafon the dogs areworld rn chapman than on other ftrangepeople ?A. It is faid, the dogs have three ac-cu Cations again ft the chapmen, handeddown from father to Ion, or from onegeneration of dogs to another: The firliis as old as dEfop, the great wit of Baby¬lon ; the dog having a law-fuit again!!the cat, gained the plea, and comingtrudging home with the decreet belowhis tail, a wicked chapman throwing Hiselwan at him, he let it fall, and fo lollhis great privileges thereby: The fecondis, becaufe in old times the chapmen ufedto buy dogs and kill them for their Ikins.The third, when a chapman was quar¬tered in a farmer’s houfe, that nightthe dog loft his right of licking the pot.( 9 )q. What creature rrfembles mofta drunken piper ? 'A. A cat, when Die ftps milk, (liealways Tings; and h d^es a piper, whenhe drinks gnod ale.Q. ^Vllat is the reaf n a dog run?jtwice round about before he ly down .A. Becaflfe he does not know the headof his bed from the foot of it.Qi What creature refembles moft along, leaih, ill-looking, greafy-fac’d lady,for pride JA* None f<> much as the cat, who isContinually fpluing in her lufe and rub¬bing her face, as many of fitch ladLo >the brown leather of their wrinkled chafts.Amongfl what f ^t of creatureswill you obferve nV'fl of a natural law .A. The hail and the hind meet at HVScertain day in the year; the broad goolelays her firfl egg on Fallerns-l.ven,old fttle; the crows begin to build theirnefl th-^ firft of March, old llile; thefwans obferve matrimony, and if the fe¬male die, the male dares not take upwith another, or the reft will put himto death ; all the birds, in general, joinin pairs, and keep fo; but the dove re-( 1° )feihbles the adulterer, when the ihe oneturn old, he piys her away, And takesan- ther'; the locufts obferve mbitaryorder, and march in bands; the frogsrefemole pipers and pedlars, far the youngfide the old to death. 'O. Who are the merrielt and heartieftpeople in the world ?A. The Sailors, for they’ll be fingtng,curling, and damning one-another, whenthe waves, their graves, are going overtheir heads.CVWhtjh are thediforderlieft creaturesin battle ?A. Cows and d gs, fur they all fallupon them that are neathmoll.Who are the vain eft fort of pc- pie-on the world ?A. A barber, a taylor, a young Tidier,and a poor dominie.Q ‘What is the great caufe of thebarber’s vanity ?A. His being admitted to trir. noble¬men’s cKafts, thyke their feulis, takekings by the nofe, and hr Id a razor to hisvery throat, which fto fubjedt elfe dareprefume to do.C II ) ' . rQ. What is the great caufe of thetaylor’s pride ?A. His making of people's new clothes,of which every perfon young and old isproud; then who can walk in a vainerfhew, than a taylcr, carrying home agentleman’s clothes.What is the caufe of a youngfoldier’s pride ?A. When he lifts, he thinks he is freeof his mother’s c&rre£lion, the hard ufageof a bad mafter; has liberty to curie,fwear, where, and do every thing; untilhe he convinced by f nr halberts and'the drummer’s whip, that he has nowgot both a military and civil law ab >vehis head, and perhaps wrrfe mailersthan evt?r. 'v '- Q: What is the caufe of the poordominie’s pride ?A. As lie is the teacher of the vounTand ignorant, he fuj^pofes no nun knowswhat he kn >ws^ the boy's call nim mafter,therefore he thinks himfelf a great man.What fort of a fang is if, that isfung without a tongue, and its notes areuoderftood hy people of all uaticas ?( 12 )A. It is a fart, which every perfbnknows to be wind.Q. What is the reaf>n that youngpeople are vain, giddy-1eaded and airy,and not fo lurmi'le as the children offirmer years ?A. Becaufe they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty ilrain,by reading fables, plays, novels andromances; gofpel-books, fuch as thepfalm-book, proverbs, and catechifms,are like old almanacks ; nothing in voguebut fiddle, flute, Troy and Babylonilhtunes; our plain Eoglifh fpeech carrup^ted with beauilh cants, d^n’t, won’t,nen, and ken, a jargon worfs than theYorkire dialed.Why is fwearing become fo Com¬mon amongft Scotch paople:A. Becaufe fo many iofty teacherscome from the fouth amongft us, where'*fwearing is pra£tifed in its true gramma¬tical perfection, hot oaths, new ftruck,with as bright a luftre as a new quarterguinea, juft come from the mint.How will you know the bones ofa mafon’s mare at the back of a dyke,amo.ngft the b' nes of a hundred deadhorfes lying in the fame place?A. Becaufe it is made of wood.( 13 >Which are the two things not to-be fpired, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat, and a hired h rfe,Q. How h a man in debt, like anobleman ?A. Becaufe he has many to wait andcall for him ?How is fwearing like a fhabby ^oat 2A, Becaufe it is a bad habit.How is a bad pen like a wickedand profligate man ?A. Becaufe it wants mending.Why is a church-bell like a ftorythat is handed about ?A. Bscaufe it is often toll’d.Q. What is a man like, that is inthe inidrt of a river, and cannot fwim ?A. Like to be drowned*Q. Why is a drawn tooth like a thingthat is forgot ?A. Becaufe it is oat of one’s head.Q Why is a book like a tree ?A. Becaufe it is full of leaves.Why is a good iermon like aplumb-pudding?A. Becaufe there is reafons in it.How a whorifh woman like acharitable per fen ? 5.( !5 )A* Soldiers and butchers are bloodynear relations, f r they both live byki Uog an<: flaughtering.Q, What is the two hardeft things tobe f u-fidj and yet they are both good intheir kind ?A. Good women, and good fmalt beer.Qj Who is likeft to a waterman inhis boat ?A An hyp crite; for he alfo, likethe boatman, looks'one way,' and rowsanother Ln all his tranfa£ti->ns.Q. What are the five greateft raritiesto be found in the world ?A. A black Swan, a Phoenix, anUnicorn, the Philofopher’s Stone, anda maid at fixteen.Q, What is the greateft folly thatfenfible people can be guilty of ?A. To go to law about trifles, whentheir families have fcarce food to eat.CV Who has the honefteft trade inthe world ?A. B dlad-fingers; for they alwaysdeal with ready-money. — And it is asancient as the Siege of Trey, for Homerwas a baUac-Iinger.4M )A. Becaufe fhe brings her hufbandto a piece of bread ?Q; H 'W :s a Lawyer like a contenti¬ous woman ?A. Becaufe they breed wranglingand jangling.Q. Who is the greateft fool irt thev/orld ?A. A whore ; for fhe hazards bothfoul and body for a mifertrble livelihoodsQ. Who are the two greatelt thievesin Great Britain?A. Tea and Tcbaccoj for they pickthe pockets of the whole nation.Q. What is the difference betweenale-drapers and linen-drapers?A. Only this, The one cheats youwith froth, ajid the other with cloath.Qi if extortioners cannot enter thekingdom of Heaven, where will ufurers,tallymen and Pawn-brokers go ?A. The fame road with extortioners.What is the confequenceof gaming?A. By cards and dice, a man is ruinedin a trice ; for gaming and whoring oftenhang together ?(T Want employments- are like ft toone-an' ther ?( 16 )TarCOMICAL AND WITTY JOKESor• JOHN FALKIRK.old f^fttleman ^gr.foi^being in a company, his eldeft fon fittingIJext to him, fpoke a word which highlydifpleafed his father; for which hisfathetgave him a hearty blow on the tide ofthe head. A-well, faid he, I will nutlift my hand to drike my parents, buthegives his other brother, that fat by him*a blow on the ear, faying, give that aboutby the way of a drink, till it comes tomy father again.A Sailor being travelling betweenEdinburgh and Linlithgow, which istwelve long computed miles ; and as hewas letting cut in the morning about( *7 )eight o’clock, he faw a vain-like yotingfpark go running part him, which henever minded, bat kept j igging on athis own leifure : and as he was g' inginto Linlithgow, about twelve o’clock,up comes the young fpark, and afkedthe Sailor what o’clock it was? Why,fays the Sailor,. I fee you have a watch,and I have none ; what is it ? Out hepulls his watch, ho! faid he, it’s dire£Uytwelve; and what do you think, it washalf an hour after ten or I came out ofEdinburgh, I have walked it in an hourand an half; it is pretty well tript,’ faysthe Sailor, but pray, Sir, what man ofbufinefs are you ? O! faid he, I ama watch-maker. I was thinking fo, faidthe Sailor, for you have made your watchto anfwer your feet, for thefe cannot an-fwer a right watch, and I fuppofe yourtongue can’tkeep time with either of them;do you remember where you went pall methis morning about eight o’clock? O yes,faid he ; and off he went.A certain old reverend priefl beingone night at fupper in a gentleman’s houfe,and for one article having eggs, the ferverof the table, as ufual, laid the cloth onevery one’s knee, wherewith, to hold, theiregg in when hot; when funper was over;the prieft: looked down between his legs,and feeing the white cloth, thought it washis own lliirt-tail, and very flyly flaps itinto his breeches oit and bit, which thelady and her maid obferved, but wasafhamed to challenge him: So home hewent, with the fervet in his breeches, andknew nothing of it till going to bed, whenit fell from him ; his wife enquired howhe came by it ? but he could not tell,and was furprifed how he came to havemore bulk in his breeches than formerly !but perceiving the name, they fent it backagain. The prieft pieaded'to be excufed,and owned himfelf only a thief throughignorance.As two maids were coming front themilking of their cowl, one of them flap¬ping over a flile, fell and fpiiled the wholepail-full of milk from her head. Oifaid Ihe,what will I do ! what will I do ! O, faidthe other maid, let it gd, who can help itnow, you can’t make it up again, it is notyour maiden-head. *— My maidenhead 1( 19 )faid {he ; if it were but my maiden-head,I would think nothing of it; many, manya time I have l it my maiden-head withgreat pi afure, and got it ay again, it aycame back to its ain place again, but I'llnever gather up my milk again.' A great Drover< who freqnented apublic Inn in the north of England, as hepalled and repaired, agreed with the fer-vant maid of the houie, for a touch oflove; fur which he gave her a Sixrand-^thirty-Hulling Piece: On the next morn¬ing he mounted his horfe, without alkinga bill, or what was to pay; but, Sir,faid the Landlord, you have forgot to payyour reckoning : Well minded, Sir, laidhe, I want my change, I gave your maida-Six-ahd-thirty to change: The poormaid was called on in all hafle, and ex¬amined if it was fo ? O yes, faid (he,I got it, but it was not for his reckoning*throws it down, and off ihe goes: Herrriftrefs underflord the matter, and alkedher if it was fo ? She acknowledged-thewhole, but fwore dhe Ihould be up-fideswith him.—In twelve months thereafter,he came that way again with a drove,( 2° )and put up at the fame inn, as k*rmer!y:Then the girl g^es to a woman in theneighbourhood, who had a young child,about three months old, takes the childin her arms, and comes into the companywhere he was, and lays it on the table,faying, Sir, there’s the change of yourSix-and-thirty; and away Ihe comes.—*Then the child fell a-crying, the bellwas rung, and the Landlord was readyenough to anfvver. — O Sir, faid he, callback the girl, for this will ruin my family,and crack my credit. — But, Sir, faidthe girl, you thought it nothing to ruinmy chara&er,and crack my maiden-head.Peace, peace, faid he, my dear, here’sone hundred and fifty pounds, and takeaway the child and trouble me no more.Well, faid ‘be. I’ll take it, and you willmake more cf buying cows than maiden¬heads. So away fhe came with the money,and then returned the borrowed child toits own mother.,Three merry companions having meton a Saturday-night at an aie-houfe,( a hatter, a Ihoe-maker, and a taylor,)where they drank heartily all that night,t 21 )and to-morrow until mid-day ; and theirbeats were, who had the lovingeft wife:So they agreed, for a trial of their goodnature, that every man fhould do what¬ever his wife bade him do, as foon asever he went home; or he who did notas Hie ordered him, was to pav all thereckoning, which was Seven &. Sixpence ;or, if all did as their wives bacit them,then they were to pay all alike : S onthis agreement, they all came away, andwent firil to the hatter’s h- ufe, and in hegoes like a madman, dancing.and jumpinground the floor; his wife, at the very time,was taking off the pot, and felting it onthe floor, he flill dancing about. N w,fays the wife, ding >.ver the p t with thymadnefs: So ne g ves it a kuk, andover it went, and that favet; him.—-Thenaway they went tu ihe taylor’a houfe, andhe goes dancing like wife ; but. his wifefell a-fculding him : O, fays he, my dear,give me a kifs: K fs my arfe, you drunkenrogue, faid fhe : Then to her he fl cs, andwhips her in over the bed, up \vft?l herpetticoats, and then k.ITtis her arfe beforethen all, and that fav d him—Then theywent to the fhoetpaker's, and in he goes( 22 )very merrily, and dancing about, as hefavv the other two d y faying. Come,my dear heart,' and give me a kifs ?Go hang your fell* you drunken dog, faidIhe: So he was either obliged to go andhang himfelf direftly, or pay the wholeof the reckoning:An honelt Highlandman, not long fince,not much acquainted with the law, fellout with one of his neighbours, and tothe law they went; he employed oneadvocate, and his oppofite another; andas they were debating it in Court bef rethe Judges, the Highlaedman being thereprefent, a friend on his fide, sfk-d himhow lye thought it would go, or whowould gain the day ? Indeed, fays theHighlandman, his law-man fpeaks well,and my law-man fpeaks well, I thinkwe’ll both win. and the Judges will lde,for they fpeak but a'word now and then.A young Wv man by the old accidenthaving herfelf with child, was .calledto the SctB n t' r fi. doing; and at cr neelder an tner, exam ning her h ' Ihegot it, and where Ihe got it, and what' z3 /tempted her to get it; - and no doubt thedeel wad get her for the getting it; ladof all the minifter. he fell a enquiringhow flie got it, which run the poor lafsout of all patience about the getting of it;fays the pried. Tell me plainly where itwas gotten ? I tell you, faid Ihe, that itwas gotten in the byre, at a cow’s dake,and what other plaNce do you want to kenabout ? But, faid he, he did not tie youto the cow’s' dake ? No, faid die, I didnot need any tying. And how far was itbetween the byre and the houfe ? Judbut and ben, up and down two daps ofa dane Hair. Then, fays the pried, whydid you t.cry to the folks in tha houfe ?Indeed, Sir. faid d,e, I could not get criedfor laughing at it.An 'Id S'Idier being cn a furloughfrom the north of Sc tland, having got no *bre ki-d tell very hungry by the-way, *ard n<- ale-h' ufe being near, came to aa farnv-r’s houfe. and alk’d if they v iiM£11 him fome bread, or any 'kind ofviftuals ? T which the furly g':cdwi%rcply’d. She never fold any bread, anddie was not going to begin with mm, he( 24 )had but three miles and a bittock to anale-hi>ufe, and he might march on ; andflie did well enough when fhe gied bitsof bread for naething to beggars, tho’ fhegied nane to idle Sodgers, he had naethingto do there-awa’. Hout, faid the g od-man, gie him a ladle-fu’ o’ our kail, he’sbeen ay fomebody’s bairn before he wasa fodger. What! faid fhe, there’s nota drop in the pot, they’re a* in the platebefore you. Then, fard the goodman,gie him a fpoon, and let him fup wi’ us.The Soldier gets a fpoon, and thinking heiould fop all he faw himfelf, the firfl fouphe put in his mouth, he fpouted it backagain in the plate, and cries out, O myfore mouth! the hide’ all off it yet,fince I had the clap: Then ever-- onethrew down his ipoon, and the Soldiergot all to fup himfelf: The wife ih^dturfing and fcoiding all the while, andivhen he was d ne, burnt both plate andfpoc n in the fire, to prevent the clap.—So the Soldier came ff with a full beliv,i/ ■ f ■'1leaving the wife dr effing the giodroan’sjigging with a four-f >uted ilool, for biddinghim fup with them.FINIS.