TH.1$mm KU ENTERTAINING- EXPLOITSOfSEORGE BUCHANAN,COMMONLY CALLKDTHE K I N G’S FOOL.GLASGOW :PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.'atKOTi fixr/JA'Dm’M a# uwi ■10 .,*MAH0THC JI0JI05IttJWOKt'.Oj.il 0 0 fi S'tO M I H SET: WOVPAJO.^aaaaaaiiooa aai fto ’ aaTraJH| Jouf ,0310sO \cf rarif ol r.jyh,'illEWITTY EXPLOITSf orfJ yi&ilw t&soa arl fals^frfi oi TBWfl bna i1 :’i;5 ytk ci-gioox) nadw 3 .hoinioqqa eaw Iau6MR. GEORGE BUCHANAN.r 0) qir ebsm ,ia9qa Baa F loyf rljCTThanna ,t«om8gir;fflMB8tooqa sdi '(Ci tiw .d§ual Orioleiosqs odtMn. George Buchanan wjui a Scotsman born, andthough of mean parentage, made great progress inlearning. As for his understanding and ready wit,ha Excelled all men then alive in the1 age, that everproposed questions to him. He was servant orteafeher to King James the YL, and .one of his pri¬vate counsellors ; but publicly acted as his fool.I. It happened one day that a ybung airy noble¬man went into the king’s garden to pull a dowerfor a young lady he fancied : George followed at adistance, so when the young man found a flower hefancied, he would not pull it himself, but to had itagain without farther search, he covered it with hiahat, and went away for his sweetheart. No soonerwas he gone, but up goes George, lifts his hat, andpulls the flower, then eases himself on the spot,covers it with the hat again, and away he goes.Soon after, the young gentleman returned, leadinghis sweetheart to : pull the flower below the hat;but as soon as he lifted the hat, and saw what wasbelow it, he looked like a fool; and the lady flyingin a passion, sets off, and would never countenance, ViT^stV-v.3 h/inidw ooalq4THE LIFE 07 GEORGE RGCHANAN.him any more. The young gentleman being sadlyvexed at this affront given to him by George, senthim a challenge to fight him, appointing day andplace where they were to meet. Being to fight onhorseback, Gfwge, gets an old stiff horse, and forharnessing, covers him about with 'blown bladders,with small stones in each, without cither sword orspear; and away to the field he goes, where theduel was appointed. So when George saw hisepcmy coming against him, all in glittering ar¬mour, armed with sword and spear, he made up tohim with all the speed his horse could carry him ;when the small stones in the bladders made sucha rattling noise, that the gentleman’s fine geldingwould not stand the battle, but ran away, andthrew his master to the' ground; which caused allthe spectators to laugh, and say the gentleman wasmore fool than George. The gentleman being stillmore enraged at this second affront, be would fightwith George on foot; but his friends persuaded himthat it would be no honour for him to fight and killthe king’s fool; and far less to be killed by the fool.So they were advised both to agree. But the gen¬tleman would try another exploit with George, forto have it said he was still the cleverest man,viuTo hold him a jumping-bont publicly, thenext day thereafter. With aH my heart, saysGeorge, and we will end in about where Webegan, they not knowing his meaning in thU.-The place and hour being set, where they were tomeet next morning. George in the night time.caused a deep pit to be made, and the earth of itcarried away ; then filled it up with dung fromp . . . .y and-covered it over with a green turf, thatit might notnbe known by the other ground. Sd,according to promise, they both met in the morn*-ing against the appointed time. Now, Georgebeing the oldest man, and by them counted theIHE LIFE OF GEOROE BUCHANAN-.6itest fool, the young spark permitted him toip first, which he according to orde\r and.iped within a foot of the place where the groundras falsified. The young man seeing this, made'i performance with great airs, and all his might,,that he jumped a foot over George, but up tooxters in clean dung! whereat the wholeMultitude of spectators cried out with huzzas andiughter. Now, says George, 1 told you wo wouldfad in and about where we began, a,nd thafcfl£ ujiean dirt. ..joo eid hue( 2. On a time after this, the king and his courti ere going into the country, and they would haveteorge to ride before them in the fool’s.dress;..hereunto he seemed unwilling, but ft was the.ling’s pleasure. So George was mounted upon an|d horse, with a pair of old riven boots, the heelslanging down, and a palmer coat, patched overlath pictures of divers kinds. George rode beforemem in this posture, which caused ,great laughter-ad diversion, until they came to an inn, whereL>y alighted to dine, and in the time they were atI'inner George went into the stables, and with anife cut all their horses’ chafts, not sore, but so1 they might bleed. Now, as soon as dinner/wa?:rer, and they mounted on .tfipir horses again,! eorge riding before them as usual, in his palmeroat and old boots, they began to make their gameJ him. Then George turning about suddenly, and.lapping his hands with a loud laughter,; the kingj,«ked him what made him. laugh so. La^gh, sayaSieorge, how can 1 but laugh, when horses cannotold their pe&pe ? 0 my sovereign, says hej Apn^mi see how your horses have rent,; their chafteIdtghing at my old boots 1 Then every man look?jig at his horse’s mouth, they were all in a ragegainst George. The king, causing George tolisraount directly, and charged him never to JetId lo eno h&ixu ^ddoinp yisv qu oeor »ri ^aoln| THE LIFE OF GEORGE 8UCIU1UH.him see his face on English ground. Now GeOrg* •knowing that nothing could reconcile the king atthis time, he came away to Scotland, and caus&i | :them to make a pair of great boots, and put 8quantity of Scottish earth in each x>f them, andj •away he goes for London, to see the king once ■more. He hearing the king and his court were tc jpass through a town, George places himself up inlan Old Window, and sets up his bare a-^-to feeking and his court as they passed. The king beinggreatly amazed to see such an unusual honour done ito him was curious to know the performer; jgo he1called unto him, desiring him to come down ; and ifinding it to be George—Sir, says the king, did ’not I charge you never to let me see yOUr face «again ? True, my sovereign, says 'George forwhich cause I let you see my a—. But says theking, you was never to come on English ground itagain. Neither I did, says George, pulling oflhis boots before the King, behold, my Sovereign, ;it is all Scots earth I stand upon. The king andhis court being greatly diverted with this merry .joke, George was admitted again to the king‘«favour.3. After this there arose a debate betwixt theking and the queen about votes in the parliament^ i*as the king had two votes, the queen would have jone, and would needs be a parliamenter, or hnpeace without preferment. This matter was cojffiSmitted to George by the king; so it was agrohcamong the parliamenters, that the queen shouldbe admitted into parliament for a day. Accirfd*ingly she came, and was received with all thehonour and congratulation that was due aadbecoming her high station ; but before any matterof consequence was brought to the board, Gebngaseated himself hard by the queen’s seat; all beingsilent, he rose up very quickly, lifted one of hi»fHE un or OlOBGE BUCHANAN. 1fitel:, : roa acf namow J; JS lilegs, let a loud f 1, which set the whole housea-laughing ; whereat the qiieea was greatly offend¬ed, and said, go, .take the rogue and hang him, towhich George answered, a fine parliamenfer, in¬deed, to hang a man for a sinless infirmity, and'that’s a f——t. The queen being enraged at thaaffront put on her first appearance in parliament^-went off in a passion, and neyer would countenancethem more. But yet, to be revenged on George*she would never give the king rest till jie deliveredGeorge into her hands, that he might be punishedat her pleasure ; which the king accordingly com-*manded to be done, knowing that George wouldrescue himself by seine intrigue oar other. Nosooner was he delivered into her hands, but sheand her maids of honour pronounced his doom,which was as follows:—As he had affronted thequeen among so-gfeat an equipage, who ought tobe honoured in chief above all women in thanation, that he should be stoned to death by tbttbands of women. Now the time being come thathe had to die, according to their appointment, howas taken into a park, where a great number ofwomen were waiting for him, with their apron#full of stones, to fall upon him, and put hun totdeath, according to the. queen’s appointment. • odGEORGE’S SPEECH TO HIS EXECUTffOHERS. 1Here’s a female band with bags of stones,To kill a man for rumple groan#. . j'fI’m clean of rapine, blood, and thefts, ■Could I convert my f—■—s to rift# ?Since I, the first for f a do rf rfjiw oathClose up the place from whence they fly,To conunit my crime, I think ye’ll scarco,If once you do cork up your a—.And now since women stone# do carry, h ^Men need not in the world longer tarry,^ THE LITE Of GEORGE RCCJUNAX.Judce if such women be chaste complete)With forty stones between their f ;But since 'tis so ye will come on,The greatest w-—<- throw the first stone.When he had ended with these words, “ The,greatest w— throw the first stone,” every oniput it to another to cast the first stbne, but know¬ing they would attain the character of a w——« forso doing, they all refused till the dying hour waspast, and then he took a protest against them, andby that means he gained his life. After this hewas admitted into the queen’s favour and presence,and attended the court as formerly..4. About this time, the French king, in orderto pick a quarrel with the court of Britain, sent aletter to the king, desiring it td be read before theparliament: and the writing was as follows: “WiUT come? Will I come? Will LeomeI’V-Thisletter being read before the king and bis courtiers,they all concluded that the French king designedto invade England; therefore they ordered ananswer to be wrote, upbraiding him with thebreach of peace, and putting him in mind of thelast treaty. The answer being read before theking and his nobles, they all agreed that it shouldbe sent off. But George, smiling, and shaking hishead, cried out, m mta QT -jQ02&38 h'HDHOSOMany men, many minds,Who knows what he designs ?Then they asked George what the French kingmeant by such a letter ? to which he answered, Isuppose he wants an invitatiop^ to come over anddine with you,-and then return in a friendly man¬ner ; but you are going to charge him with a breachof peace, before he has given any signal of offenceor war; his letter is indeed dark and mystical, hutsend 1dm answer according to his questionNow, George being ordered to write the answer, itwas as follows:—“ And ye come—And ye come—Amd ye come.” This being sent to the Frenchkjng, he admired it beyond expression, saying, itwas arf answer more valiant and daring than heexpected. So the enmity he intended was extin*guished, and turned into love.5. It happened once that a malignant party InScotland sent up a great spokesman to the kingand parliament, for the reducing of the church^George hearing of his coming, went away and methim on the bridge, and the salutation that he gavehim was the cutting off his head, and throwing itover the bridge ! He then ran to the king withall his might, and fell down before him, pleadingmost heartily for a pardon, or without it he was itdead man. The king most seriously asked himwhat he had done now ? To which he answered,he had only thrown the Scots Bishop’s hat overthe bridge, which made the king to laugh, to hearhim ask pardon for such a small fault; but he hadno sooner got the pardon sealed by the king’s hand,than he said, indeed my sovereign, I threw his hatover the bridge, but his head waa in it,, O Geordie,Geordie, says the king, thou wilt never give overtill thou be hanged. , . ' ^ ^6. A nobleman in England agreed with theking how to put a trick upon George, to try hismanly courage, in sending him to a certain placefor a bag of money. On his way home, throughSt. James’ park, they caused a sturdy fellow to goand set upon him by the way,' and take the moneyfrom him. The fellow being armed with swordand pistol, came up quickly and attacked Georgewith these words, Tou, sir, deliver what, moneyyou have, or you are a dead man. , To whichGeorge answered, sir, 1 have some indeed, but’tis not my own, and therefore do nbt Eke to partTHE LIFE OF <3 BOUGH BUCHANAN.with It: nevertheless, sinoe being determined asyou are, to exchange blows for it, pray do me thefovottr to fire your pistol through the flap of mycfoak, that the owners may see I have been ingreat danger of my life before I parted with it, whichhe accordingly did. . No sooner had he fired thepistol, than George whipt out his hanger frombelow his cloak and with one stroke cut off hisright hand wherein he held his sword, so that bothbis'sword hhd the hand fell to the ground; butGeorge lifted his hand and carried it to the king.IW "sooner did he come before them, but theyasked him, saying, well, George, did you see anybpdy to troub^ you'by the way ? None, said he,But bwfelfellQW, who was going to take the moneyf?bfn me, but I made him give me his hand heWould not do the like again. You did ? says thefallow’s master. Yes, I did, says George ; letWork bear Witness, throwing down the fellow’sK.lnd on the table before them all. .. . ..Now; 'this' laid1 exploit Of George’s causedmany of the English to hate him ; and, among therest, a young nobleman fell a joking of George,saying, he would be as famous a champion forScotland, as Sir William Wallace wasi Ay, ay,says GeOrge, Wallace was a brave man. in histime., True, indeed, says the young nobleman,^ut when he came to London, we did him allnianher of justice, and for honour of the Scots,we have his effigy in the s- - to this very day.Ahd.db, TOU know the reason of that, says George?Nbj d don’t, .saysf he. Well, I’ll tell you, say*(Sobrie >/ he was such a terror to Englishmenwhen he was alive, that the sight of his pictureyet makes them p  themselves. The EnglishjP$f$hij answer as a great affront, and forthwithcaused Wallace’s picture to bo taken out of alljbeir s —.fKE LIFE OF GEOROE BUCSANAK. 11.’riAXAnoTia aonoan ao an.i tut v fi£8. A young English girl falling in lore with aScotchman, she petitioned him several times for toi marry her ; which he refused. So, to be revengedi on him, she went to a Justice, and swore a rapei against him, which is death by the law. GeorgeI hearing of this, went to the prison where the ydbngman was, and instructed him how to behave Worethe judge. So in the time of the trial Georgecame in while the judge was crying to the man;but -never a word he could get him to answer, tetell whether he was guilty or not. After the jus*tice had given him Over for deaf and dumb, others: fell a shouting in his ears, but never a word hewould speak. Then the judge, perceiving George,called him, saying, George, do you know what 'l*i the matter with this man? Yes, I do very welli says George. What is it ? says the judge/ Why;i says George, the woman made such a noise and* crying when he was ravishing her, it has p*t thepoor man quite deaf, I assure you. Is it so? saysthe justice. No, no, says the woman, my LordJustice, yon may believe me, I lay as mute a* S'lamb, and never spoke a word all the time. Verywell confessed, said the justice, and you havesworn a rape upon him. Take the w—— toprison, and let the poor man go about his business,and so it ended.fART II.George happened one time to be in colnpany witba bishop, and so they fell to dispute anent educa¬tion, and* "he blanked the bishop remarkably, andthe hfSfe'Op. himself owned he was worsted.—Thenofce of Wfe^Wmpany addressed himself to him in'these svords f thou Scot, said he, should not haveleft thyehuhtiy!' For what? says he, because thott11 .lU'riAHotJtf a&0oa« 10 a«u am12 THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.'a dint sjot ni ^nilkl Itig rfeilsoa gnupr A .8has carried all the wisdom that, is in It thither withthee. No, no, says he, the shepherds in Scotlandsriil dispute with any bishop in London, and exceedthem, very far in education. The bishops thenfc*c& ythift os Hn - affront, and several noblemenaffirmed it to be as the Scot had said: betaymre.lsid on eHeht-aide^nrvd.’three of the bishops>vere chosen, and sent away to Scotland to dis¬pute it. with the shepherds, accompanied withseveral others^ who. were to bear witness of wLa*|^ey should hear pass between tiiem. Now, Georgeknowing which way they went, immediately dookanother road and t\ as in Scotland before them.He then made an acquaintante with a shepherdpu the border -whose pasture lay on the waysidewhere the bishops were to pass; and there hemounted himself in shepherd’s dress; and whenhe saw the bishops appear, he conveyed his flocktp-gthe roadside, and fell; a chanting at a Latinhajlad. When the bishops came up to George,pne of them asked him in French what o’clocki^wns? To which he answered in Hebrew, itis directly about the time of the day it wasyesterday at this time. Another asked Jam inGreek, what countryman he was? To which heanswered in Flemish, if ye knew that, you wouldbe as wise as myself. A third asked him, in Dutch,where was you educafucLI -To which he answered,in Earse, herding my sheep between this andLochaber. This they desired him to explain intoEnglish, w^ich. he .-immediately did. Now, said:they one to another, we need not proceed anyfarther. What, s^ys George, are you butchers '$I’ll sell you a few;; slmep. To this, they made ua-answer, Tut' went away shamefully, and said, tlrsybelieted thoScots had been through all the nati.us*AtoS*»ew!&!K} fSfi $U«ation, or the devilliiid.taught tuem. Now, when George had ended this-THE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHaKIW05100r) v/oK .jimoi a J05 lotobiura orfi .boolddilute with the bishops, he stripped off his shep¬herd’s dress, and up through England he goes, withall the haste imaginable, so that he arrived at theplace from whence they set out, three days beforethe judges* and went every day asking if they werecome, so that he might not be suspected. As soonas the y arrived, all that were concerned in the dis-! pute, and many more, came crowding in, to hearwhat news from the Scottish shepherds, and toknow what was done. No sooner had the threegentlamen declared what had passed between the[ bishops and the shepherds, whom they found onthe Scots border, but the old bishop made answer,and think you, said he, that a shepherd couldanswer these questions ? It has been none else butthe devil; for the Scots ministers themselves couldnot do it; they are but ignorant of such matters,a parcel of beardless boys. Then George thoughtit was time to take speech in hand. Well, m'ylord bishop, says George, you call them a parcel ofignorant benrdless boys. You have a great longbeard yourself, my lord bishop, and if grace weremeasured by beards, you bishops and the goatswould have it all, and that will be quite averse toScripture. What, says the bishop, are you a Scot?Yes, says George, I am a Scot. Well, says thebishop, and what is the difference between a Scotand a sot ? Nothing at present, says George, hutthe breadth of the table, there being a table betwixtthe bishop and George. So the bishop went off ina high pession, while the whole multitude werelike to split their jaws with laughter.2. About this time there was an act of pariia«ment for the benefit of murderers, that any person,i who committed murder, if they forfeited five hun¬dred marks, which went under the name of Kin-boot, because, so much of this went to themurdered person’s nearest relations, as the price of14 Tfifi LIFE OF GBOftGE BUCHANAN.blood, the murderer got a remit. Now Georgeknowing this to be contrary to Moses’ laws, wasrery much grieved to see bo many pardons sealedby the king’s hand for murder, almost one everyweek; it being so usual for the king to subscribethem, that he would not read them, nor enquirewhat they were ; for which cause, George writes a-writ to the crown, and sent it to the king to besubscribed, which he actually did, and never lookedwhat it was, returned, it to George. No soonerhad he received it, but he goes to the king andtold him it was pot timo for him to be sittingthere, whereat the king, greatly amazed, startedup ; then George in great haste, sets himself downin the. king’s chain,, forthwith declaring himSclfking, saying, you' who was king must be my fool*for I am now the wisest man. The king at thiswas greatly offended, until George showed him hisseal and superscription. But from that day forth,the king knew what he subscribed.3. The next pardon that came to be sealed bythe king, was a gentleman who had killed two menbefore, and had got pardons for them by money.This being the third, the king was very silent inlooking over the petition: George standing byasked the king what he was going to seal now.To which he answered, it is a remit for a man whohas killed three men at suhdry times, I gave hinttwo remits before. Oh, says George, he has killedbut one man. And who killed the other two,says the king. You did, says George, for if youhad given him justice when he had killed the first,he had killed no more. When the king heardthese yvOrds he threw down the pen, and declaredthat such an act to save a murderer, should be nullever after by him.4.. One day, George having no money, he goesaway and gets a pick and a spade, and then falls a$tsa life or oroftaa BTJenmw. 15I digging^ at a comer of the king's palace ; which theIking perceiving from his window, calls what he waswanting there f Are you going to undermine myhouse, and makfe it fall ? No, my sovereign, saysGeorge, but it is verily reported that there is plenty!of money about this house, and where can it be?| says George, I cannot find it, for it is not withintfce house to,do me service, then surely it must beIbfelow it. 0 George ! says the king, that is a craveafter the new fashion, what money you want I’llorder for you. Then, my sovereign, says George,I I’ll dig no more.5. One time George being in the country, hecame to an inn, where he alighted to refresh him¬self ahd his horse. The jmnkeeper charged himdouble price for every thing he called for.—Georgenever grumbled at this, but gave him all demands,and away he goes on his journey. At the innwhere he quartered the following night he was| used after the same manner, if not worse. Hav¬ing little farther tb go, he returned next day, andI came that night to the inn where he refreshedhimself the day before. So, when he alighted,the boy asked him what he would give his horse ?j What ybu will, said he. When he had gone to1 his room, the waiter enquired what he would haveI to drink? What you will, Says he. The master1I of the inn came into his room before supper, andenquired what he would have for supper f Whatyou will landlord, says he. After supper, and ahearty bowl td put all over, he went to bed. Onthe morrow he rose very early, and called for thef boy to make ready his horse in all haste, for he: was designed to mount and go directly. Sooni after, he went into the stable where the hoy was,| calling for his horse, when ho mounted with allthe speed he could, and gave the boy a piece ofmoney,, saying, here my boy, this is for takingiV TUB tfPE OP GEOMB BtCEtANAN.care of my torse; I Lave paid for all I haveordered iu the house, and off he goes. Aboutmid day he alighted again at an inn to refreshhimself and his horse, and there he chanced to hecompany with his other landlord where he was. i r  j *1...JBBT .301^1 ;m7o;,. > w K -JIOCwas iu your house yesternight; O yes, Sir, says he,r,mind of.you pretty well. And where was joulast night? Last night, says George,.! was iu oneo| the finest inns, and the civilest landlord I everhad in my life : they brought all things that Is^pod in need of nptor tne, without calling for them:synd when 1 came off tins morning, they chargedme nothing, and I paid, nothing, hfit sixpence totjjie boy for dressing my horse. Blopd and wounds!"vd the old fellow, then I’lV go there this night.7> says George, do ; and mind this, when theyHsk you what you will have for yourself and yourhorse, answer nothing but Wbat you will, Sir.George smiling within himself, to think how hehad got the one extortioner to take amends of theother. So this innkeeper set off on his journey,and rode so late that night that he might reachthe cheap; inn, that most of the people were goneto bed before he arrived. As soon as he dismountedfrom his horse, the boy enquired at* him, What^haU.I give your horse, master? To which heanswered, What you will, boy. The boy hearingthis, runs away, (leaving him and his horse to§tand at the door), up stairs to his master’s room,crying, master, master, What-you-will is comeagain ;—0 the rogue, cries he, where is he ?—I’llcane .him-—I’ll what you will him by and by.Then to Jiim ho runs with his cane,' licks, andkicks him until; he was scarce able to mount hishorse, and would give him no entertainment there,TBS LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN,,r .fcAMJupua xpaosD «o ana am 81■hich caused him to ride the whole of a cold win-night, after ,he bad got bis bone® all beat andlised. So the one pursued the other as a mur-.srer; and hie defence was, that he was a cheatid a scorner .of his bouse, until the truth wasund out.6. About this time the French king sent and(demanded from the king pf England, three men|of different^qualities. The first was to be a mightyWrong man; the second a very wise man and thd(third a very great fool; so that he might have?(none in all France to match them. So, accord¬ingly, there were two men chosen ; the one a(Strong man, and the other a very wise man,: but[George was to act as the fool; nevertheless, hewas the teacher of the other two. On their wayjto France George asked the strong man, what wiUyou answer the French king when he asks if youibe a strong man! Why, says he, I’ll say l am„Then, says George, he’ll possibly get a strongerman than you, who WiU kill you, and affront yqur((country. What shall I say then, said the strongfman. Why, says George, teU him you are strong(enough untried. Then said he to- the wise man,land what wiU you say to the king, when he asks AFyou are a wise man ? Why, I’ll tell him I am,and answer him all the questions I know. Verywell, says George, but what if he asks you whatyou do not know, then you’U affront your coun¬try, and be looked upon as a greater fool thancme.Well, and what shall I answer, then? said the, wiset ftnan. Why, says George, tell him he is only awise man that can take care of himself; and Ii fehall come in after you, and take care of you alto-, Mother. As soon as they arrived at the king ofFrance’s palace, the king sent for them to try18THE LIFE OF GEORGE BCCHAiUS.■troug man ? to which he answered, O king! I amstrong enough untried. Very well, said the king.After him the wise man w as called ; and the kingasked him if- he was a wise man f to which heanswered, he is only a wise man who can takecare of himself. Very well, says the king. Onwhich George pushed up the door, and in he went,with loud laughter, and p  directly in hisMajesty’s face, which blinded both his eyes, andput the whole court in amaze. Now, now, saidhis Majesty, it is true enough what the wise mansays, for if I had taken care of myself, I need nothave been p upon by the English fool. Qho, says George, fools always strive to make fooB iof others^ but wise men make fools of themselves.By this his Majesty seemed to think he was madethe . greatest fool, and charged them to go home,for he wanted no more of England’s strength, ;wisdom, or folly.7. One night a Highland drover chanced tohave a drinking-bodt with an English captain ofa ship, and at last they came to be very heartyover their cupsy so that they called in their ser¬vants to have a share of their liquor. The drover’sservant looked like a wild man, going- withoutbreeches, stockings, or shoes, not so much as abonnet on his head, with a long peeled rung inrhis hand. The captain asked the drover howlong it was since he catched him t He answeredit is about two years since 1 hauled him out of thdsea with a net, and afterwards rah into the mourr*tains, where I catched him with a pack of hounds.The captain believed it was so ; but, says he, I havea servant the best swimmer in the world* Of but,says the drover, my servant will swim him to death.No, he will not, says the captain, I’ll lay one hun¬dred crowns oa it. Then, says the drover, I'll-dayit one to one, and staked directly, the day beingTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.19appointed when trial was to be made. Now thedrover, when he came to himself, thinking on whata bargain he had made, did not know what to do,knowing Very well that his servant could swimnone. He hearing of George being in town, whowas always a good friend to Scotchmen, he wentunto him and told him the whole story, and thathe would be entirely broke, and durst never returnhome to his own country, for he was sure to loseit. Then George called the drover and his manaside, and instructed them how to behave, so thatthey should be safe and gain too. So accordinglythey met at the place appointed. The captain’sman stript directly and threw himself into the sea, 'taking a turn until the Highlandman was ready,for the drover took some time to put his: servantin order. After , he was stripped, his master tookhis plaid, and rolled a kebbuck of cheese, a bigloaf, and a bottle of gin in it, and this he boundon his shoulders, giving him directions ta tell hiswife and children that he was well, and to be surehe returned with an answer against that dayse’imight. As he went into the sea, he lookedback to his master, and called out to him for hisclaymore. And what waits he for now ? says thecaptain’s servant. He wants his sword, says hismaster. His sword, says the fellow; what is heto do with a sword ? Why, says his master, if hemeets a whale or a monstrous beast, it is to defendhis life. I know he will have to fight his waythrough the north seas, ere he get to Lochaber.Then cried the captain’s servant, I’ll swim nonewith him, if he takes his sword. Ay, but says hismaster, you shall, or lose the wager; take youanother sword with you. No, says the fellow, itnever did swim with a sword, nor any man else,that ever I saw or heard of; I know not but thatwild man will kill mo in deep water. I woul^20 THE LWE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN.not for the whole world, venture myself with himand a sword. The captain seeing his servantafraid to venture, or if he did, he would never, seehim again alive, therefore he desired an agreementwith the drover, who at first seemed unwilling;hut the captain putting it in his will, the droverquit him for half the sum. This he came to through-George’s advice.8. George was one day met by three bishops,:who paid him the following compliments : says thefirst, good-morrow, Father Abraham; says thesecond, good?morrow, Father Isaac ; says the third,good-morrow, Father Jacob. To which he replied,lam neither Father Abraham, Father Isaac, norFather Jacob ; but I am Saul, the son of Kish,sent out to seek my father’s asses, and, lo ! I havefGund three of them. Which answer fully con- -vinced the bishops that they had mistaken theirman.9. A poor Scotchman dined one day at a public ^house in London upon eggs, and not having monejrto pay, got credit till he should return. The manbeing lucky in trade, acquired vast riches; and'after some years happening to pass that way, callsat the house where he was owing the dinner ofeggs. Having called for the innkeeper, he askedhim what he had to pay for the dinner of eggs hogot from him such a time ? The landlord seeinghim now rich, gave him a bill of several pounds,telling him as his reason for so extravagant u:charge, that these eggs, had they been hatched,would have been chickens ; and these, laying moreeggs, would have been more chickens; and so on,multiplying the ■eggs and their product till suchtime as their value amounted to the sum charged.The man refusing to comply with this demand, wascharged before a judge. He then made his caseknown to George, his countryman, who promisedjblgow I .1*1 jw q*sb ui pm liii Kw hm f*hrTHE LIFE 0? GEORGE BUCHANAN. $1i to appear in the hour of cause, which he accord-j ingly did, all in h'sweat, with a great hasket^ofI boiled pease, which appearance surprised the judge,if who asked him what he meant by these boiledIpeas ? Says George, I am going to sow them. Whenwill they grow? said the judge. They will grow,said George, when sodden, eggs grow chickens,i which answer convinced the judge of the extrava¬gance of the innkeeper’s defnand, and the Scots¬man was acquitted for twopence halfpenny.George, one day easing himself at the corner of! a hedge, was espied by an English squire who be-1 gan to mock him, asking him why he did not keckloI like the hens ? But George, whose wit was alwaysready, told him he was afraid to keckle, lest hei would come and snatch up the1 egg, which rebuff| made the squire walk off as mute as a fish.George was professor of the College of Bt. Ah-f drews, and slipt out one day in hist gown and slip-fpers, and went on his travels through Italy, and[ Several other foreign countries and after sevOnI years returned with the same dress he went off:! in ; and entering the college, took possession of hisl seat there; but the professor in his room quarrelledi! him for so doing. Ay, says George* it is^a vWy[odd thing that a man cannot’ take a walk out SnI his slippers, but another will take up his seat.! And so set the dther professor about his busines^.Two drunken fellows one day fell a beating onel another on the streets of London, which caused agreat crowd of people to throng together to s8ewhat it was. A tailor being at- work up in a gar¬ret, about three or four stories high; arid he'hedg¬ing the noise in the street, looking over th’e Win¬dow, but could not well see them ; he bigah Tostretch himself, makigg a long ftUck, Until he ftflldown out of the window, and alighted on an oldman who was walking on the street; the poor tailor23THE LIPS Of GSORGE BUCHANAN..waa more afraid than hurt, but the man he fell ondied directly. His son caused the tailor to btiiapprehended, and tried for the murder of hi®father; the jury could not bring it in wilful mur¬der, neither' could they altogether free the tailor;the jury gave it over to the judges, and the judge®to the king. The king asked George’s advice in "this hard matter. Why, says George, I will giveyou my opinion in a minute; you must cause thetailor to stand in the street, where the old gentle*man was when he was killed by the tailor, andthen let the old gentleman’s son, the tailor’s adver¬sary, get up to the window from whence the tailorfell, and jump down and so kill the tailor as hedid his father. The tailor’s adversary hearing thesentence past, he would not venture to jump outthe window, and so the tailor got clear off.George went into the mint one day when theywere melting gold. One of them asked George, ifhe would have his hat full of gold ? George readilyaccorded, but it burned the bottom out of bis hat, asthey knew it would, and for the bout foiled George.However, George, to be up with them, bought afine large hat, and caused a plate of copper to beput betwixt the hat and the lining; and returningnext day they jestingly asked him, if he wouldhave another had full of gold ? He said he would.They gave it red hot, and George now laughed atthem in his turn; telling them, that his new hatwas a good one, and stood fire better than the oldone, and so carried it off honestly, and being after¬wards prosecuted for to return it, he excused him¬self, telling the judge, that be took, nothing butwas given him, and therefore he waa honourably-acquitted, and the other heartily laughed at-George being now far advanced in years, andbeing weary of the great fatigue and folly of thecourt fashions, a short time before his death, heJS ■ -tuTHE LIFE OF GEORGE BUCHANAN,28had a great desire to visit his native country, andthe place of his nativity. Therefore he petitionedthe king for permission to do so, which wa»granted. So he set'out for Scotland, and went t4the parish of Buchanan, in Dumbartonshire,where he visited all his relations and friends.—But George staying-longer from court than thetime allowed, the king sent him several messagesto return, to which he refitrned nh answer. Atlast the king sent him a letter, threatening that ifhe did not appear before him iil the space oftwenty days he would send his Lyon Heralds forhim; to which George returned the followinganswer:—My honoured liege and sovereign king,Of your boasting great I dread nothing; »On your feud or favour I’ll fairly venture,Or that day I’ll be where few kings enter.And also gave him many good admonitions anddirections concerning the government of his king¬dom and the well-being of his soul; which drewtears from the king’s eyes when 'he read it. !oc}.aiaawWILL SCOTT.A celebrated attendant upon th$ Sheriff, tfellknown for his activity in the execution ofa hisorders, as well as for taking a bit comfortableguzzel when finances would afford it, was oneSabbath day snugly seated in the pew behind theBailies at church. Will had not been there long5till he was soon lull’d into sweet slumbers, andfancied himself seated along with his companionsover a good imperial half-mutchkin, and.dri ashort time the reckoning cable a-paying!, whensome of llie party insisted it was already paid;THU LITE OF GEORGE BT7CHANAK.lihowever, Will happened not to be of that opinion,f jmd J,ruc to Jxia integrity,: bawled out with all hiamight in the midst of the sermon, “ Ho, no, bymy faith its no pjiyjt, we have had just a’e h{yfmutchkin, an’ twa bottles o’ alp and there’s no afflrdin o’t pay’t.”GRAVE-DIGGER OF SOR^.The Grave digger of Som, Ayrshire, was asselfish and as mean a sinner as ever handledmattock, or carried morteloih. He was a veryquarrelsome and discontented old man, with a voicelike the whistle of the wind through a key-hole. Ona bleak Sunday afternoon in the country, an ac¬quaintance from a neighbouring parish accostedhim and asked bow Um world was movingwith him, “Oh, very puirly, sir, very puirly in¬deed,” was the answer, “the yard lias -donenaething ava for us this summer, if ye like tobelieve nje, I havna buried a levin’ soul this saxweeks,”HOW TO RE'AD A SIGN-BOARD.A Highland Drover passing through a certaintown, noticed a sign-board above an entry, witht he following inscription :Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades, Jellies,Capped Biscuits, and all sorts of ConfcotionaryGoods, sold down this entry.He read it as follows t—Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, Jades,Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts of ConfusionafjrGoods, sold down this entry.