THEBook of Knowledge :' „ TREATING OF THEWisdom of the Ancients.CONTAINING,A short prognostication concerning Children Bornevery d *y of the Week.Of the Bijth of Children, with respect to the Age ofthe Moon.Of the signification ofMojes on any Part of the Body.Of the Interpretation of Dreams, as they relate t*pood or bad Fortune, &c. ‘I - rSign* of fair Weather, Rain, Wind, or Tempest.Of the Rainbow.Of Rain, Hail, Snow, Frost, Dew, and Wind.Of Earthquakes.Of Thunder and Lightning.Of Eclipses of the Sun and Moon, either total or' partial, and theirjCanses.The complete Gardener,—containing OWiJhtioBson every Month qf the Year, fof Planting andSowing. •Of the SeVen Pianpts, their Names, l^aturcs, and inwhat Time they make their Revelations. *Pleasant Questions in Arithmetic.''Choice Receipts both in Physic and Surgery.printed ey w. macwie,PRl«F ONE PE'1ST,#Book of Knowledge.c)A short Prognc&lication concerning Children Bornevery Bay cf’lhe Week.A CHILD barn on Sunday, sliall be of a long life*and shall obtain great riche*.A child born on Monday, shall be weak, of an ef¬feminate temper, and seldom come to boiour.A child born on-Tuesday, shall be given up to in¬ordinate desire of riches, and is in danger of tryingby violence.A child born on Wednesday, shall be given up tostudy af learning and shall protit thereby.A child born on Thursday, shall arrive at greathonour and dignity.A ciiki born on Friday, shall be of a strong Con¬stitution, but very leacherous ; and if a female, she isfn danger of becoming a whore.A child born on Saturday, shall be dnll-and heavy;and of a dogged disposition, and who seldom or neverI conies to good.0/ the Birth of Children, ludth respect to the Age ofthe Moon.TO be born upon the first day of the new moon, is(very fortunate, for to such all things sha!l succeedvrof; tbieir sleep shall be sweet, and their dreamssbafl be pleasant, and they shall have a long life, anJincrease in riches.A child born on liie second day of the moon, shallgrow r.pace, but will be much inclinei to lust, whether....4'it ba male or female. This day is alio proper to rfson messages, to trade by land, or to sail by sea, alsot» pot seed in the ground that it might thrive. Onthis day also thy dreams shall come to pass, whetherit be good or bad. It is also good on this day^, toepen a vein, if there be occasion.A child born on the third day of the moon, shalldie quidtly or at least be short-lived ; on this day tobegia any work of moment, is very unfortunate, for itseldom comes to a-good ejtd. If theft be committedon this day, it will be discovered, and on this ^day aman that falls sick hardly recovers.On fhe fourth day of the moon, the child that isborn shall prosper in the world, and be of good repute.On tlFiS day it is good to begia an enterprif*, pro¬vided it be done, with good advice and with depen¬dence upon Heaven for a blessing. A man that fallssick upon this day, either recovers or dies in a shorttime.. They that will, may also on this day usepbUdotom).Th« fifth day of the moon is unfortunate,. and thechild born herebs shaff die in its infamy. On thisday, let no fn^n do iay thing of moment, k will bareno suyce*?. JIa that is in ihtnger this day and think*to escape, h« shall wrteinly be taken-—he bad betterthe« b:: stiB as ba it. If good counsel Ae given enthis clayg executs* thc-.i to woreow. He tbat falls siwkand takce his bed on thi* day, bath reason te fear thatlie will never rise out of it again. Tot on shit) dayyo« may let blood with gotfd success.Tke sWfli day of tim moon, the child that is borne-hall have a long life, hat if taken ill it shaM difequickly , to s- nd olifUatsi te school this day is veryfmdouate. nftd 'deJictes they shall insmase in leamiag :ob rt>is Avy will Be KWGCtsm ; but if a im«IVAs 9>ek he hardly recovers.On tlie sevewtb day, the child that is bqen may livemany years, iii be that fudls sick slnBl never re¬cover'j o^ thi/llay it is good to shave the head, tt.■o',tame wiid balls, an ! 1,- y bogs ; for lie that does so,shall gain mucli bv them. If be that has been longseek takes physic*>s day, be is like to rjrover.On the eighth a child born^hail be in dangerof dying.yoimg, hut if ha outlives his first sickness,be may live long, and arrive at great estate : wbat^ever business a man undert|i .es on this day shall pros¬per ; but it is especially goo UtO buy cattle and to be¬gin buildings : he that dreams a dream, shall quicklyhave it'come to pass. He that falls .sick on tins dayshall recover, and any thing that is tost shall be found.On the ninth day, a child that is born shall be veryfortunate, enjoying long life, and arriving at greatriches v this is also a fortunate day for businass, forsvliat is undertaken tills day shall come to good issue,fshe that is pursued shall escape; and he that is op¬pressed shall soon be relieved.On the tenth ds.y, a child that is horn shall be agreat traveller, pass through many kingdoms and na¬tions, and at last die in his old age sr home : do no¬thing,on this day but what you would have known,for all secret things shall lie brought to light. She}hat falls in labour oa this day, shall-he deliveredwithout danger, but he that being sick takes his bed,shall lie in it a long timr. Blood letting may be usedthis day with good success..On the eleventh day of the moon, the ehild that isborn shall be of good constituting*, and .much devotedto religion :■ shall be of a lovely countenance and longlived, and shall have a peculiar mark, on his forehead jand if a female, shall be much addicted to wisdon*and learning ; al?o on this day*it is good to begin a,journey, for it shall be prosperous ; and fdso to mar¬ry, for the mirried couple shall live happy ajl theirdays, and be blessed with tpany children. It is like-. wise good for shepherds to change their folds.The twelfth day of the moon’s age, betokens no¬thing but sorrow and woe, and the child borU^n thisday shall be given to wrathfoluess, and suuject to6many afflictions. Ms that falls sicl on this day, Inssickness shall be languishing, and at length shall endin deaith. If there be occasion toi:t blood this day,let it be towards the evening, for then it is safe.On the thirteenth day of the month, th« child thatis born shall be of short life, and subject to muchmisery while it lives, by j euson of peevish crossness,so that it can never he pl .ased. To plant vines, orgather grapes, er to eal f t)it this day, is good. liewho on this day is ireprisoTied, shall be quickly liber¬ated, and what is lost on this day, shall be qsicklvfound; to vfed a wife on this day is good, hoc sheshall be both loving and obedient to her husband.On the fourteenth day, the child that is born shaWbe an enemy to bis country and thJI setk the des¬truction of his prince, which shall , bring him to hisdeserved end ; on this day, if you ask a kindnesso( a. friend or of an enemy, it shall be giantedyoh ; give to a sick niau physic, and it shall restorehim to his former health. *On the fifteenth day, the child that is born shallquickly die, on this- day begin no wr.-rk. it U unfortu¬nate, yet he that fallelh sick on this day may recover,but after long sickness: that which was lost yester¬day will be found this dsv.The child born oil the sixteenth d:»v, shall be of illmanuera and very unfortunate, insomuch that tho' lielive long, yet In’s life shall be a burden to him; yetthis is a good day for buying, selling and merchan¬dizing, and also for dealing in great cattle, hut it isnot good to dream in, for dreams on this day are com¬monly hurtful, and suc.li as come to pass a long timeafter. If a man falls sick on this day, and changebis habitation, he may recover again.A. child born on the seventeenth day, will be fool¬ish to that degree, that it »!iaU always be a natural,and therefore become a great affliction to its parents.To go on messages this day, is unfortunate; yet topon trauma tiimony, to compound physical pro para-tions, and to ta'ftB physic is very good, t>u«. ujmeans to let blood.A child born on the eighteenth day, if a male, willHe valiant, courageous and eloquent, but if a female,chastte, industrious and painful, and shall come tohonour in her old age. -It is good this day to beginbuildings, and to put your children in order to bebrought up to learning. Have a care of being let.blood on this day, for it is vecy dangerous.The child born on the nineteenth day, if a maashall be renowned for wisdom and virtue, and there¬by arrive at great honour •, but if a female, she willbe of a weak and sickly constitution, yet she will liveto be married : this day they may let blood that have-occasion.On the twentieth day of the moon’s age, the .childthat is born, will be stubborn, quarrelsome, and agreat fighter, yet shall arrive at riches and store ofmoney j this is a good day to begin any manner <*fbusiness.On the twenty-firstday of the moon, the child thatis born wilfbe unhappy, for though lie shall be wittyand ingenious, yet he shall be addicted to stealing,which may bring him to the gallows $ and though heescape that, yet he will be stirring up quarrels andrebellions against the government, which in the endwill prove fatal to him. He that is minded to keephis money, ought on this day to abstain from gaming,or else he may happen to lose it all ^ abstain from let¬ting blood this day at your peril.On the twenty-second day, the child born shall befortunate and purchase a good estate j he shall alsobfe-of a cheerful countenance, comely and religious,and shall be well beloved avoid going on any mes¬sage, this day, for it will, not be fortunate, it is goodthis day U remove bees from one place to anutlier,id order to increase. Bitod ■ letting oil this day mayhe profitable,On-the twenty.third day, the child horn shall be ofan ungovernable spirit, and shall give up hiWself to'+frw»j«rermgvabroad in the world, and seeking his for*tune in foreign parts, and in the end shall die miser¬able. This is a good day to wed a wife ; for he thatmeets with such a one ought to marry her while heearr have her. ft is also a geaeral prosperous day toall that begin business thereon.On the twenty.fourth day of the moon the childthen born s' all be a prodigy in the world and makeall men admire at his surprising and wonderful actions,which shall exceedsthose of the ordinary sort of men;On the twenty-fifth day of the mmAi, the child thenhern shall be wicked, he shall encounter with manydangers, and at last sh.+ll perish by them. This is anunfortunate day, and threatens daggers and disap- ipointments to those that begin any enterprise of mo¬ment. Therefore a man that falls sick on this day Iwill hardly recover.On the twenty-sixth day of the moon's age, thechild that shall then he born shall be very beautifuland amiable, but-yet of an ind.d’erent station in thew orfd, if it be a male hut'if n femaie, a rich manmarries her for her beauty. He that on this dayfalls sick of the dropsy shall hardly recover. Letthose that travel on this day, beware of meeting withthose they do not care for, for they may ease them oftheir burden?.The twenty-seventh day, the child that shall bebtfrn shall be of so sweet ami affable a temper anddisposition, that it will attract the love of every onewith whom it shall converse; and yet (if a ■man)shall never rise to any great height in the world;but if a maiden, the sweetness of her disposition may-advance her, for such a love is to be esteemed aboverubies. If a man falls sick on this day, though hemay endure misery, yet he shall at last recover.On the twenty-eight day of the moon, the childthat is born shall be the delight of its parents, butyet subject to much sickness and many distempers,%s>which shall take it aw?iy before it arrives to perfect; ag»-On the twenty-ninth day, the child that shall beborn shall be fortunate and happy, blessed with longlife, and attain to an eminent degree of holiness, wis¬dom and virtue. To marry a good wife in great for¬tune, and such will his be that shall marry this day.Fishing and hunting are both good reei'eations, andon this day will prove very successful.On tbe thirtieth day,- the child that shall be boi-nwill be fortunatj and happy, and well skilled in arts, and sciences.These and divers others the like things, happen tomankind, according to the liifferent age and course• of the moon, which lias a rfiiglily influence upon allhuman bodies.OJ the signification oj Moles on any Part oj theBody.A MOLF. on the forehead of man or woman, de¬notes they shall grow rich, and attain to great pos¬sessions, being beloved of their friends and neighbours.A mole oh the brow, shews a man to be inconti¬nent and given to the love of women : but if it be awoman, it signifies a good husband.He or she that has a mole on the nose, signifiesthey love their pleasure more than any thing else.A mole on the chin, skdws the party shall neverstand in need of his kin, but shall get money andgrow very rich.A mole, on the neck, denotes him hon'curable andprudent in all his actions ; but if a -woman, it showsher of a vreak judgment, and apt to believe the worstof her husband.A mole on a man’s shoulder, signifies adversity ;but if a woman having a mole on the same place, itshows she shall abound in honour.and riches.10A rpan or woman having a n>o!e on tfceir wrists orsaiwi, denotes increase et' childrtn, but affliction in©Id age.A man or woman havjnfr a moie near their heart,or upoit their breasts, shows them irregular, wicked,and malicious.A.mole on tire belly, shows a man shall be unfortu¬nate in m-wryiug, an<l that bis wife shall be addictedto gluttony and lasciviousness.A mole on the knee, shows a person to be fortu¬nate.in marrying, and that his wile, shall be heautt-ful, virtuous, and very wealthy. A woman havingone in the same place, shows she shall be virtuous,happy and fruitful in children.A mole on the ancle, denotes a man to be affec¬tionate, and act the part of a woman, like Sardana-palns at the spinning wheel j and a woman havingthe like, she shall effect to-be lord over Iter husband.A mole nh th#foot, shows a man prosperous in get¬ting riches, and happy in liis children. If a womanhas the same, it also betokens her the same happiness.Of the Interpretation of Dreams, as tliey relate togood Fortune, Sfc. ,TO dream you are bit by a serpent, signifies somedanger will beta! you by secret and subtle enemies.To dream you fly in the air, signifies a speady jour¬ney, or some hasty news. To dream you fight ando.vercomej signifies you will get the better in law¬suits and other controversies; To dream a lion fawnsupon you, denotes the favour of great persons. Todream of black coffins and mourners, denotes the per¬son, to be in good health. Io dream yon are in a■field of standing corn, betokens prosperity and joy.To dream of gathering up small pieces of money, be¬tokens loss and disappointment ; hut receiving ofmoney,' profit and advantage. To dream tfmt yon. 11are on horseback, and that he rims a«/ay with you,denotes^you shall speedily be called away on somebusiness contrary to your liking. A woman to dreamshe kisses another woman, denotesi disappointmentiunove'aad barrenness. To dream you are pleasantlysailing oh calm water, denotes a peaceable anc| quietlife : but, if storms arise, expect troubles. For awoman to dream a ring is put on her finger, denotessuccerss in love and marriage $ .but if it be suddenly-taken oft’or fall off, it signifies disappointment in love,and the breaking off of the match. To dream youare hunting a hare, ‘and she escapes, betokens Fossand disappointment in business. To dream a gt4dchain faffs from your neck, betokens the loss of thefavour of friends. To dream you are courting abeautiful woman, denotes flattery. To dream youare forced against your wilMo descend from a plea¬sant hill, deholes falling from promotion and disap¬pointment ia preferment. To dre: » of a sudden fitof joy at the sight of any thing, betokens the arrivalof friends. To dream yhu are at banquets but donot eat, betokens scarcity. To dream one puts a newglove 03 ami it remain® so, denotes new friendship ormarriage. To dream you faff into a deep pit, denotessome sudden surprise and danger. A woman to dreamshe is with child, denotes sorrow and heaviness. Todream that you quench fire, denotes overcoming an¬ger, and recovery from sickness. To dream you beara voice, but sees not what utters it. denotes you shallbe deluded V.y feigivsd pretenders. To dream you arewalking in a garden of ffovrets, and among groves oftrees denotes much pleasure and delight to. ensqe fromsome virtuous conversation, To dream ot mooc®contending in the firmament, denotes divisions amongfriends and relations. To dream your truth aredrawn or drop out, denotes the Joss of children orOther relations. To dream of drinking unmercifully,denotes displeasure, crosses and sickness. To dreamyou are pursued by furious wild beasts, and cannot.12v*oid them, denotes anger from enemies. To dreamyou see your deceased brothers or sisters, signifieslong life. To dream ytfuare sliooting in a bow, sig¬nifies honour and preferment. To dream you managebusiness of great concernment, signifies obstruction.To dream you are making candles, signifies great .rejoicing. To dream you are going to hear divineservice, signifies consolation. To dream you build achurcie or ereet an altar, signifies some of your familywill become a priest. To dream you see yourself sit¬ting or Ivicg in a chinch, signifies change of appare!rTo dream you aye playing with dogs, is a very goodsign,Signs of fair Weather.THE sun rising bjlght and clear, if he drive cloudsbefore him into the west. If at the rising there ap¬pears a circle about him, and it van is be th equallyaway.. If the sun be red. If the moon be clearthree days after The change, or three days before livefull. If the clouds appear with yellow edges. ‘ Acloudy sky clearing against the wind. The rainbowafter rain appearing meanly red. Mists comingdown from the hills and setting in the valleys, orwhite mists rising from the waters in the evening.Crows dr ravens griping against the sun. Beetlesflyftig in the evening. Bats flying abroad sooner thanordinary. Many Hies or gnats playing to the sun¬shine at evening.* Signs of Rain.IF the sun be fiery and red at his rising. It heallows pale and wan. If red and black clouds U;about him at his rising. If the moon, three or fourdays a&rthe change is blunt at both ends, the thickerthe more. A circle about the moon. It the gie^tstars be only seen, and they look only dim. I berainbow appealing in a fair day, the greater it is the13jnore r*ia. Birds yrashing themselves. The cbat>tering of a piet 5 peacocks aad Jacks often crying.The owl crying cliewit often, swallows flying low jthe working of an insect called a spinner. Manyworms appearing above ground. The beasts eatinggreedily and licking their Imofs. The bating of fleas,gnats, &c. The soot falling much from chimnies.The sweating of stones. A circle round a eandle-Acbes in ancient people's limbs, or corn*. Bells heardat a farther distance than usual. Sparks gatheringtogether in the lire. No dew morning nor evening,&c. Ail these are sure signs of raiit.Signs oj Wind or Tempest. .Red clouds appearing in the morning. Much shoot¬ing of stars : the rainbow red j and black, circleswith red streaks about the moon ; stars dim and fiery.Autumn fair, a vVindy winter. €louds flying swift inthe air ; fire burning pale or purzing ; ravens 'clap-rping themselves with thmr wings $ the high flying ofthe heron ; crying of swine j the, herb trefoil lookingvery rough.Of the Rainbow.THE rainbow is that bow which the*Almightywas pleased to place in the firmament as a token toNoah, that he would drown the earth no more. Butas to the natural cause of it, it is caused by the sun¬beams striking upon a hallow cloud, with which itsedge is repelled and driven back against the sun ;and thus arises a variety of colours, by the mixing ofclouds, air and fiery light together ; there it is seenin opposition to the sun for the most part of theeVenirrg. .Of the Rain.THE ancieate ascribe rain-to be a cold and earth¬ly vapour of humour exhaled from the earth' aad14 'Wa.U'rs by the beams of the sun, and carried iuto thetnickile region of the air, where by the extremity ofthe cold, it is thickened into the body of a cloud ; andafterwards, being dissolved through an accession «fheat, it frlletb upon the earth } and this is done byGod’s power, and at hU appointment, a# thaPrephetAmos wituesseth,* J' V.: '• ’ ■ - ' • ' '1Of Hail.HAIL is nothing but rain congeal’d into ice bythe coldness of the air, freezing the drops after tiredissolving of the clouds ; and the higher it comes,and the-longer it tarries in (lie air, the rounder andlesser it is : we have sometimes great showers of bailin the heat of summer, after a thunderclap) whichdoth manifest, that the air at that time is extremecold, thus to congeal The water therein, notwithstandingthe heat then upon the earth.Of Snotv.SNOW (as say the ancients) is of the same hu¬mour that hail is, but only looser parts ) and there¬fore in the summer-time‘is n«;lted into rain before itcometh down.Of Frost and Rain.IN the cay time through the heat of the sun, thereis ii cold and moist vapour drawn up a little from theearth: which after the setting of the sun, descendsupon the earth again, and is called dew : but if bxthe sharpness of the air it be congealed, is called frost )and therefore in hot seasons and windy weather, dewsare not so frequent, nor so much as after a calm andclear night; for when frosts happen, they draw upwet and moisture for the ice being melted, is pro-porticnably |pss.■WIND is said io b >n eshaialion Suit and dr}%^cgendited in the bov .' i' 'the earth j and beinggotten out, is carried SKU’.ong' upon the face of tileearth, and cannot move 'Upwards".above the middleregion of the air, which by reason-of its coldness, dothbeat it back, so as by much strife and by meltingether exhalations rising, its motion is forced to berather round, than right in its falling •, ai d this niEfkesit a whiripoll, or whirlwind, which sometimes by it'sviolence carrieth many things with it from place toplace, " - **Of EarthquakesTHE ancients affirm, that the cause of the earth¬quakes is plenty of win’d gotten surd confined withinthe bowels of the earth, which rs striving to breakforth, causing a sticking, or sometimes a cleaving ofthe earth, and.thereby the destruction of many peopleand ruin of whole towns and cities, as the sad stateof Sicily has so often shown us by striking of mouc-tains nnd raising of valKes ; but though what I havesaid may be the natural cause of earthquakes, yetdoubtless the final cause is God’s-anger against a pro¬voking and sinful people, which ought to make allour hearts tremble, lest God for our sins should causethe earth under us to do so.Of Thunder and Lightning-THUNDER and Lightning are occasioned by anexhalation hot and dry ; and being carried up into’'e meddle region of the air, and there inclosed intothe body of a cloud ; now these t wo oonfrtfries beingshot or inclosed, into one plate together, thty fall atvariance, whereby the Water and fire, agree not till16they have broken throupb, so that .the fi/e and waterfly out of the clouds, the brealing whereof twikesthat noise which we call thunder, and the fire is light*ning which is first seen, though the thunder crack hefirst given, because our sight is quicker than oni'hearing. For the sooner the thunder is heard afterthe lightn’iig is seen, the nearer it is to us,Of Eclipses and their Causes.BY eclipses in general is understood a^ defect oflight happening in some of the celestial bodies, anil iscaused by the interpoiition of an opaque body be¬tween them and our sight. Now the opinion ofastronomers is, that all the planets of themselves aredark bodies having no light but what they receivefrom the sun ; but tne sun and fixed stars are na¬turally luminous ; whence it follows, that any planetin crossing betwixt the sun and our light, so also ourprimary planet coming betwixt the sun and its se¬condary, deprives that secondary of its light, andconsequently renders such secondary planet - unil-Itiminated to its primary.• *Of Eclipses of the Sun.AN eclipse of the sun is caused by a diametricalinterposition of the moon betwixt the sun' and theearth, which commonly happens at the new moon, orwhen she is in conjunction with the sun ; but everynew moon doth not cause an eclipse, because of herlatitude^; yet the sun seldom escaped) a year togetherwithout appearing eclipsed in some part of the earthor other ; because, twice in one year the sun and onenode meet $ also, if the conjunction or new moon dotbnot happen just at the sun’a passing by the node, butwithin a half a degree from the node, he- then mustsuffer an eclipse greater or lesser, according as thenode is nearer or remoter from him at the time of the1*7 ' ‘ . ' •rue coajunction j but if the meeting of the sun andeither node happen at the very full moon, then heshall totally escape an eclipse of the new moon. _OJ Eclipses oj the Moon*AN eclipse of the moon is nothing but her beingdeprived of the sun’s light by the interposition of theearth, betwixt the son ami Her ; which can never hap¬pen but when the moon is-at full •, nor doth it alwayshappen then, because of her latitude, she will be e-clipsed ; hut if the sum 'of (he semidiameter of themoon and earth's shadow, at the time of the true full,be more than the moon’s latitude, she will be. eclipsed ;but if the sum of the semidiameter be le^s than thelatitude, she cannot suffer an eclipse that full j andthov at every full moon there is not an eclipse, yetshe raeriy passeth a year together without being t.-clipsed little or much, for the sun. passeth her nodesevery year.• *Eclipses either total or partial..'TOTAL eclipses are such as quite cover the il¬luminated body, and are either cetUr-al or not; centralare when the centres of the sun. earth and moon arein a straight line ; or when the -centres of the sun,earth and moon coincide ; hot central, are syhen thecentres do not coincide, though notwithstanding theymay he total. Partial, are when the sun, moon orother luminous bodies a e but partly darkened.Now the moon being less than the earth, and theearth much less than the sun, solar eclipses are neveror very rarely total ; yet, if it happc >, the moon inPerfgaco, and the sun in Apogaco, an eclipse of thesun may he total; for then the moon's apparent di¬ameter exceeds the sun’s considerably ; and her quiclcand perfect shadow reaches the superfites of the earth,by which sush places as arc situated within the com-18pass of this perfect shadow, £tiie diameter is about3000 miles) do use the whole light of I he sun, whichlias caused such darkness, that the stars have ap¬peared at noon-day, and so dreadful, that the. birdshave fallen to the ground.The complete Gardener ; containing Observations oneva y Month in the Year,Jor Planting and Solving.January. PX.ANT vines, and lay them for in¬crease ; the apple »nd pear-trees, and all sort of walltrees ; if the weather he open, trim wall fruit trees,cut and nail them j set and sow kernels and stones, itsthis and the next month, breaking only the stones orshells, and sow only the kernel ; sow beans and pease,cut, set, and lay quicksets and roses •, all these may bedone also in the next month.February. New is a very good time for graftingtbe forward sort of fruit trees ; if the weather hetemperate, sow hardy seeds, as ase, beans, radishes,parsnips, carrots, onions, parslev, spillage, i*ake unhot beds for melons, cucumbers, and such like ^ laybranches of vines, roses, wood bines, jessamines.. Inte¬stine's, philleory, pyraculh, &c. Plant gooseberries,currants, raspberries and begin to plant hardy herbstowards the latter end of this rrtonth •, transplant cab¬bage, colliSowers, and sow asparagus.March. This is tbe principal month for graftingall sons of fruit-trees, transplanting all si rts of hardyherbs and (lovers, make up hot-byds fur encumbers,melons, colli flowers, to come late, to Ru-?ia cabbageand tender flower seeds, as amaranths ot ait soils, andgarden-seed, ntarvil, of Pi rn, &c. Sow most sort ofgarden-seed, an e-ndevo, snccory. leeks, radish, beets,parsnips, skirrets, parsley; sonel buggluss, barrageschervil I, cellery, lettice, onions, mice, purstin. Car¬rots, cresses, spinseeds; likewise turnips to this orthe next month to have them early’. I hi »-• theprincipal month for sowing seeds, ai;n planting flow-19ers and slips. Sow pinks and carnations, gil1y-flow-ei s at the iul! moon, and the seed of winter-greens ;plant out colliflowers and all softs of cabbages, wherethey are to stand, and likewise carnation layers in. the end of the next month. In this month also soweats and barley.April. You may graft some sorts of fruit-trees inthe beginning of tins month v sow all garden seetk indry weather-, and plant all sorts of garden herbs in: wet weather. You may yet sow those sorts of s«edsspoken of in March. Sow tender seeds, as sweetmargorem, basil, pinks, carnations, hysop, thyme,savory and pUrsUi, Dutch and English savoys. Setall sorts of winter greens m tills and the former; months set sage and rosemary ; sow lettice, spinage,cheiville, and cresses otic in three or four weeks, tohave, it young. Piaut cucumbers, melons and -arti¬chokes. In this month also sow hemp and flax, plantimps, and open your bee-hives, and bark trees forI tanners.May. About the beginning, or within a fortnightunder or over, sow French beans in fine mould ; sowtender garden-seeds, as sweet marjorem, thyme andbasil, Detch and English savoys • plant out cucum¬bers and amurantiinses, &c. Of the hot bed take uptulips whose stalks are dry, sow pnrslin, set vourstills to work, wertl .your hop gardens, cut off super¬fluous branches, moss trees, and weed gardens, andcorn.June. Tbe beginning of this month, sow Englishand Dutch savoys, sow sallad-seeds for latter sallads.Take up your best anemonies tulips and ranuncuiics jsow turnip seed in this and the next month, and tran¬splant those savoys that were sown the last month,plant slips of myrtles, shear your sheep the moanincreasing.July. This is- the principal nioru'h to inoculateapricots, peaches, nectarines and roses. Prune your-Wall trees, lay gilly flowers and carnations, sow let-20tlce and spinage for latter •oJading ; transplant or re?move tulips or other bulbous roots plant cuttings ofmyrtles, but let them not have too much sun at first.Remove j'our large side cabbage planted in May, tobead in autumn. Keep weeds frem growing to seed,and begin jour bowing. Gather the snails from yourwall-frui*, but pull not off the bitten fruit, for thenthey will begin with others.August. The beginning of this monfh for cab¬bage and colliffowers seed ; prune superfluous bran¬ches from the wall-fiuit trees ^ unbind the buds youinoculated the month before, if they take. Sow spin-age and lattice for latter salading $ set suckles, plantthem rather in the shade than the sun, sow lark, sparand candiruf, columbines, bpbin/m the bush, and suchhardy plants a® will endure the winter plant straw¬berries and other garden plants ; reap and gather inyour harvest while the weather continues fair, for youmay reap and carry in 3 our corn, as well as makediav, when the sun shines.September. Transplant -colliflowers and cabbagethat were sowed in August. Plant turnips and bul¬bous roots you formerly took up ; take off your carna¬tion layers, and plant them where they are to standthe winter ; remove fruit trees from September tillMarch except it frost ; set or-cut, bays, laurels, &c.Transplant most sort of herbs and flowers, gatherhopes the .beginning of this month, and sew yourwheat and rye.October. Set beans and pease ■, sow all sorts offruit-trees, as nuts kernals and seeds,, either for treesor stocks, in this or the next month ; plant all fruit-trees that have shed their leaves 3 trench stiff land,November. Sow beans and pease j prune ail sortsof fruit-trees, and begin to cut and trim wall trees jlay up carrots, parsnips, cabbages, either for your useor seed ; cover your asparagus or artichokes 3 sethuts’and kernels j ye may plant tulips.December. Set beans and pease if the weatherbe moderate •, set and transplant all sorts of fruit-trees, especially such as are not very tendef and sub-jsct to tire injury of the frost; prune vines if tkeweather be open ) drill and cut all sorts of fniit-tr;os jsow bay and laurel berries quite ripe, -Of the Sewn Planets, {heir Names, Natures, and hiwhat time they make'their Revolutions.THE first is Ssfnrn, wbo is by nature cold anddry, of a swarthy, dull, obscure colour, like unto lead 5he mates bis resolutions through tfee 'twelye signs iitthirty yeans.The second is Jupiter, who is by nature hot andmoist, and temperate fie appears very bright andshining, and is of a warm nature j he makes his re^volution in twelve years.The third is Mars, ok nature hot and dry; he ap¬pear eth of a fiery red colour, and maketh his revolu¬tion Tn twenty-three months.Tire fourth is Sol, whose rratune is hot, dry, andtemperate, his glorious brightness is anfficientlyknown to alt, he makes his revolution in 35S days, 6hours, and 2d' minutesThe fifth i« Venus, of nature cold and moist theme*t bright and splendid star in all the firmament jshe nroveth rtjually with the sun, tiro’ her motionseems very irregular, and makes her revolution atthe twime time. ’The six-lh is Mercury whose nature is cold andvariable be is situate very nAr the sun, and,'is rarelyseen j he makes his revolution at the same time asthe son of Venm*.The seventh is Luna, or the Moon, which is theLast or lowest, arod whose nature is cokl and moistfevery one knows she is-of a pale colour, and shesnakpth her revelation in twenty-seven d&ys andsight hours. • ’•>"22Peasant Questions in Arithmetic.LET the party that tlunk elh, double the mi'nberon whicli he thought ; whir.b t’one, bid him multiplythe sum of them both by five, and give you the pro¬duct, which they will never ,■ itwe,to do, it being sofar above the number thought; from which, if youabate the last figure of the ;,rodect, (which will al¬ways a cypher or five) the number thought on will■ remain-Example. Let the number thought be 55, whichdoubled make 110, and multiplied by 5, makes 550 ;then if you take away the cypher, which is the lastplace, there will remain 55, the number thought on.A. certain man having three daughters, to theeldest he gave twenty-two applos, to the second hegave sixteen apples, and to the third he gave ten ap¬ples, and sent them to the market to sell them, andgave them command to sell one as .many for a pennyas the other, fnamely 7 a penny) and every one tobring him home as much money as the other, andneither to change their apples or monies one withanother j how cum that be ?Tins to some may seem impossible, but to arith^snaticians very easy. .For where the eldest had threepenny-worth and one apple over, the second twopenny-worth and three appies.over, and frbe youngesthad one penny-worth and three apples Over; so thatthe youngest bad so many single apples and onep«pny-woTth as the eldest bad penny-worths and oneapple over, and conieqaeftUy the second'proportionedto them bf>th. They made their market thus ; asteward cothiilg to bdy fruit to his lady, bought allthe %pfdes they had at seven a penny, leaving theodd ones behind ; then had the eldest threepence andone apple. The middle sister'had twopence and i|vo* apples, and the you!|gest one penny and three apples.The etewart brought the fruit to his lady, she fcked23it so well that she sent him for the rest j who repliedthere was but few remaining $ she notwithstandingsent him for them at any rate. The steward Miningto the market again, could not buy the odd appl.esunder a penny a piece, who was fain to give it, ttienhad the youngest sister three penny-worth, the mid¬dle sister two penny-worth, and the eldest one penny¬worth, and so they had all fourpence a-piece, and yetsold as many for a penny one'ks another, and neitherchanged apples nor money one with another, as theywere commanded.CHOICE RECEIPTS BOTH IK PHYSICAND surgery.Hoto to cure tJiirt troublesome Compamoyi the Ague.TAKE the common bitter drink, without thte pur¬gatives, two quarts ; salt of wormwood two ounces,the best English saffron, a dram. After you havetaken the vomit, or convenient purge, take haH' apint of this three times a day, vh&» in the morningfasting, three o’clock in the afteaioop, and last atnight,UOK to cure tluil garmenting Disease the Cholic.TAKE annisseds, sweet-fennel seeds, coriander,carraway seeds, of eaph- tivc cifao'.B, cunynin seeds adram, raced ginger a.small quaol'.ty, bruise all in amortar, and put then? into a quart ofNauts brandy,let them infuso three days shaking the bottle three orfour times a-day, then strain and keep it for use.Take two or three spoonfuls in the fit.Horn to help Dehfness, and to expel Wind Jrom theHead.TAKE five or sis drop* or moie of wine or goodscquavitae in a spoon, and folding down your head2*f>H one let one pour tlie «ame into y^ur ear, lei.it continue there for Haifa quarter of ah hour, stillholding your beat! aside; that it run not out, and thenyou’ll hear a most terrible noise ami rumbling in yourhead, vdifcli is the wind,- then turn your head aside,and then the water will run out again very hot; nowwhen yon have done thus much cc one 5ide, you mavdo as much on the other; but be sure to keep yourhead warm after yon have done. This 1 have oftenproved, and found ease thereby.fioxv io give ensceind help the raging pain of theTeeth without drainingTJfTS is also performed with the spirit *>f wine or 'good aquavitae, (as you have read in the former re¬ceipt) by pouring it into the ears, especially^.on thatside where your pain lieth, but after that you havelet the water run f&rth out of your ears, then withma-re of the same water (before the fire) you rub andebaie your cheeks, and under your j «ws, and behindyour ears, stroking them upwards and your hands to¬wards the neek, to drive back the hunjours fur it isnothing else but a cold tlteum that distilleth from theliead irto trie gums, -which causeth the p«in, there-lose be sure to keep; the head warm when you havedone. 4Hone to strengthen d^d comfort the Eyes.DU* a clear, rag in a few drops of aequavitae,and with the same wipe the corners of the eyes, eye¬brows, and temples, wliich will keep hack the tbeum,and greatly strengthen and comfort the eyes, of whichI iiav« efteu made trial, and found :pueh ccoifort.I-IK-13,