THEJLIFEANDpkophecies, Infinsjyogoi|ALEXANDER PEDEBf*     i r'iitj tioiefifri-iood-w arnnsniogJf/Ofir >)-S7/ sH Ilj9<J5**7l] ■■a* <DIiniGLASGOW ; -(cMWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.^IftgStgKKIMHMI115.mmMTHELIFE ANI>,PROPIIECIESOFALEXANDER PEDEN.That most excellent minister of the gospel, andfaithful defender of the Presbyterian Religion,Mb^Aj^xanoeb Pedeij, was born in the parishof Sorn, near Ayr. After his course'atthfe Col- ■lege, he was sometime school-master, precentor,and session-clerk t* Mr. John Guthrie, ministerof the gospel at Tarbolton. When he was aboutto enter on the ministry, a young woman fellwith child, in adultery, to a servant in the housewhere she stayed; when she found herself to beso, she told the father thereof, who said, I’ll runfor it, and go to Ireland, father it upon Mr. Pe-den, he has more to help you to bring it up (hehaving a small heritage) than I have. The sameday that he was to get his licence, she came inbefore the Presbytery and said, I hear you are tolicence Mr. Peden, to be a minister; but do itnot, for I am with child to him. He beingwithout at the time, was called in by the moder¬ator ; and being, questioned about it, he said, ITCiifri fi3am utterly surprised, I cannot speak ; but let noneentertain an ill thought' of me, for I am utterlyfree of it, and God will vindicate me in his owntime and way. He went home, and walked at awater-side upwards of 24 hours, and would nei¬ther eat nor drink, but said, I have got what I.was seeking, and I will be vindicated, and thatpoor unhappy lass will pay dear for it in her life,and will make a dismal end ; and for this surfeitof grief that she hath given me, there shall neverone of her sex come into my bosom ; and, accord¬ingly he never married. There are various re¬ports of the way that he was vindicated ; somesay, the time she was in child-birth, Mr. Guthriecharged her to give account who was the fatherof that child, aild discharged the women to behelpful to her, until she did it: some say, thatshe confessed : others, that she remained obstin¬ate. Some of the people when I made enquiryabout it in that country-side, affirmed, that thePresbytery had been at all pains about it, andcould get no satisfaction, they appointed Mr.Guthrie to give a full relation of the whole be¬fore the congregation, which he did; and thesame day the father of the child being present,when he heard Mr. Guthrie begin to speak, hestood up, and desired him to halt, and said, I amthe father of ('Vat child, and ! desired her to fa-4ther it on Mr. Peden, which has been a greattrouble of conscience to me ; and I could not getrest till I came home to declare it. However itis certain, that after she was married, .every thingwent cross to them ; and they went from place taplace, and were reduced, to great poverty. Atlast she came to that same spot of ground wherehe stayed upwards of 24 hours, and made awaywith herself [)n;; . .1(jy2. After this he was three years settled min¬ister at New Glenluce in Galloway; and whenhe was obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat .time, to leave that parish, he lectured uponActs xx. 17* to the end, and.preaohed upon the3.1st. ver.se in the forenoon, ‘ Therefore watch,and remember th,at for the space of three years Iceased not to "warn every one,night and day,with tears Averting that he had declared thewhole counsel of God, and had kept nothing backand protested that he was free of the blood of allsouls. And, in the afternoon he preached, on the32d verse, ‘And now7, brethren, I commend youtp. God,- and to the word of his grace, which isable to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all the® that are sanctified.’Which was a weeping day in that kirk ; the great¬est part could not contain themselves : He manytimes requested the-m to he silent; hut they sor-5rowed most of all when he told them that theyshould never see his face in that pulpit again.He continued until night; and when he closedthe pulpit-door he'' knocked hard upon it threetimes with his Bible, Saying three times over, Iarrest in my Master’s name,'that riever one enterthere, but such as come in by the door, as I did.Accordingly, neithei1 curate nor indulged minis¬ter ever entered that pulpit, until aft&'the revolu¬tion, that a Presbyterian fniriister opefled it.3. After this he joined rrith that honest andzealous handful in the year 1666, that was brokenat Pentland-hills, and cam'e the length of Clydewith them, where he had a melancholy view oftheir eiid, and parted vrith them there. JamesCubison, of Paluchheaties, my informer, to whomhe told this, he said to him, 4 Sir, you did wellthat parted with them, seeing yoii'was persuadedthey wouid fall and flee before the enemy.—Gloryglory to God, that he sent me'not to hell im¬mediately 1 for I should have stayed with themthough I should have been cut all in pieces.4. That night the Lord’s people fell, and fledbefore the enemy at Peritland-hills, he was in afriend’s house in Garrick, sixty miles from Edin¬burgh ; his landlord seeing him mightily troubledenquired how it was with him; he said,4 Tomor¬row I will speak with you,4 and desired some can-6die. That night he went to bed. The nextmorning calling early to his landlord, said, ‘ Ihave sad news to tell you, our friends that weretogether in arms, appearing for Christ’s interest,are now broken, killed, taken, and fled everyman. ’—the truth of which was fully verified inabout 48 hours thereafter.5. After this, in June 1673, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Hugh Fergu¬son, of Knockdow, in Garrick, who constramedhim to tarry all night. Mr. Peden told him thatit would be a dear night to them both. Accord¬ingly they were both carried prisoners to Edin¬burgh, Hugh Ferguson was fined in a thousandmerits, for resetting, harbouring, and conversingwith him. The Council ordered fifty poundssterling to be paid to the Major out of the fines,and ordained him to divide twenty-five poundssterling among the party that apprehended him.Some time after examination he was sent prisonerto the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh, he re¬mained until December, 1668, that he was ban¬ished.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbath¬morning being about the public worship of Goda young lass, about 13 or 14 years of age, cameto the chamber-door mocking with loud laugh¬ter: He said, ‘ Poor thing, thou mocks and7laughs at the worship of God, but ere long Godshall write such a sudden, surprising judgmenton thee, that shall stay thy laughing, and thoushalt not escape it.’ Very shortly after, she waswalking upon the rock, and there came a blastot wind and sweeped her into the sea, where sheperished. While prisoner there, one day walkingupon the rock, some soldiers passing by him, oneof them said, Devil take him. He said, Fy, fy,poor man, thou knowest not what thou art saying;but thou wilt repent that.—At which word thesoldier stood astonished, and went to the guarddistracted, crying aloud for Mr. Peden, saying,the devil would immediately take him away. Hecame to him again, and found him in his rightmind under deep convictions of great guilt. Theguard being to change, they desired him to goto his arms; he refused, and said, he would liftno arms against Jesus Christ his cause, and per¬secute his people, he had done that too long. Thegovernor threatened him with death, to-morrowabout ten of the clock ; he confidently said, threetimes, though he should tear all his body in pie¬ces, he should never lift arms that way. Aboutthree days after, the governor put him out of'thegarrison, setting him ashore. He having a wifeand children, took a house in East Lothian,where he became a singular Christian. Mr. Pe-den told these astonishing passages to the fore-said John Cubison and qthers, who informedme-, i : . yjjjg |Ida jxjdj no7. When brought from the Bass to Edin¬burgh and sentence of banishment passed uponhim, in Dec. 1C78. and sixty more fellow-pris¬oners, for tire same cause, to go to America, ne¬ver to be seen hi Scotland again, under the painof death; after this sentence was past, he severaltimes said, that the ship was not yet built thatshould tajve him and these prisoners to Virginia;or any other-.of the English plantations in A-meriep.,—One James Kay, a solid and graveChristian, being one of them, who lives in orabout the Water of Leith, told me, that Mr. Pe-den said to him, ‘ James, when your wife comesin, let me see her;’ which he did—After somediscourse, he called for a drink, and when hesought a blessing, he said. ‘ Good Lord, let notJames Kay’s wife miss her husband, till thou re¬turn him to her in peace and safety; which weare sure will be sooner than either he or she is look¬ing for.’ Accordingly, the same day-month thathe parted with her at Leith, he came home toher at the Water of Leith.8. When they were on shipboard at the Wa¬ter of Leith, there was a report that the enemieswere to send down thumbkins to keep them from.9rebelling'; at the report of this, they were dis¬couraged : Mr. Peden came above the deck andsaid, ‘ Why are ye discouraged ? You need notfear, there will neither thumbkins nor bootkinscome here : lift up your hearts and heads, for theday of your redemption draweth near; if we wereonce at London, we will be set at liberty.’—Andwhen sailing on the voyage, praying publicly, hesaid, * Lord, such is the enemies hatred at theeand malice at us for thy sake, that they will notlet us stay in thy land of Scotland, to serve thee,though some of us have nothing hut, the canopyof thy heavens above us, and the earth to treadupon; but, Lord, we bless thy name, that willcut short our voyage, and frustrate thy enemiesof their wicked design, that they will not get uswhere they intend; and some of us shall go rich¬er home than we came from home.’ JamesPride, who lived in Fife, an honest man, beingone of them, he said many times, he could assertthe truth of this, for he came safely home; andbeside other things, he bought two cows : and be¬fore that, he never had one. I had these accountsboth from the foresaid James Kay and RobertPunton, a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was also under the same sentence, and livedin the parish of Dalineny, near Queensferry.When they arrived at London, the skipperwho received them at Leith, was to carry them nofurther. The skipper who was to receive themthere, and carry them to Virginia, came to seethem, they being represented to him as thieves,robbers, and evil-doers; but when he found theywere all grave Christian men, banished for Pres¬byterian principles, he said he would sail the seawith none such. In this confusion: that the oneskipper would not receive them, and the otherwould keep them no longer, being expensive tomaintain them they were all set at liberty. Somereported that both skippers got compliments fromfriends at London; however, it is certain theywere all set free without any imposition of bondsor oaths; and friends at London, and on then-way homewards, through England shewed muchkindness unto them.10. That dismal day, June 22d. 1679, atBothwel-bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy, he was forty miles distant,«^near the border, and kept himself retired until themiddle of the day, that some friends said to him,‘ Sir, the people are waiting for sermon.’ Hesaid, ‘ Let the people go to their prayers; forme, I neither can nor will preach any this day;for our friends are fallen, and fled before theenemy at Hamilton ; and they arc hanging am*11hashing them down, and their blood is runninglike water!11. A fter this, he was preaching in Galloway:in the forenoon he prayed earnestly for the pris¬oners taken at and about Bothwel; but in the af¬ternoon, when he began to pray for them, hehalted and said, ‘ Our friends at Edinburgh, theprisoners, have done something to save their livesthat shall not do with them, for the sea-billowsshall be many of their winding-sheets; and thefew of them that escape, shall not be useful toGod in their generation.’ Which was sadly ver¬ified thereafter. That which the greatest part ofthese prisoners did, was the taking of that bond,commonly called the Black Bond, after Bothwel,wherein they acknowledged their appearance inarms, for the defence of the gospel and their ownlives, to be rebellion; and engaged themselvesnever to make any more opposition: upon the do¬ing of which, these perfidious enemies promisedthem life and liberty. This with the cursed andsubtile arguments and advices of ministers, whowent into the New Yard, where they were pris¬oners, particularly Mr. Hugh Kenendy, Mr.William Crighton, Mr. Edward Jamieson, andMr. George Johnston; these took their turn inthe yard where the prisoners were, together witha letter that was sent from that Erastian meetingof ministers, met-at Edinburg-h in August 1679,for the acceptance of a third indulgence, with acatitionary bond. Notwithstanding of the fene-fnies’ promise, and the unhappy advice erf min¬isters not indulged, after they were ensnared inthis foul compliance, they banished 255, whereof205 perished in the Orkney-sea. This foul step,as some of them told, both in their life, and whendying, lay heavy upon them all their days; andthat these unhappy arguments and advices of min-tsters, prevailed more with them than the ene¬mies’ promise of life and liberty. In August1G79, fifteen of the Bothwel-prisoners got indict¬ments of death. Mr. Edward Jamieson, aworthy Presbyterian minister, as Mr. Woodrowcalls him, was sent from that Erastian meetingof ministers into the! Tdlbooth to these fifteen,who urged the lawfulness of taken the bond tosave their lives ; and ;the refusal of it would be areflection to religion, ail'd the cause they had ap¬peared for, and a throwing away their lives, forwhich their friends would not be able to vindicatethem. He prevailed with thirteen of them, whichsoured in the stomachs of some of those thirteen,and lay heavy upon them both in their life anddeath. The prisoners taken at and about thetime of Bothwel, were reel oned about fifteenhundred. The faithful Mr. John Blnckadtf die13mite to these prisoners, dissuading them fromthat foul compliance; and some worthy personsof these prisoners, whom he wrote to, said to mewith tears, that they slighted his advice, amiswallowed the unhappy advices :of these minii-ters who were making peace with the enemies!-oiGod, and followed their foul steps, for which the}would go mourning to their graves. I heard thesame Mr. Blackader preach his last public sermon before failin'^ into the enemies’ hands in thunight-time in the fields, in the parish of Living¬stone, upon the side of the Muir, at New-house,on the 23d. of March, after Both we!, where helectured upon Micah iv. from the 9th. verse, wherehe asserted, That the nearer the delivery, our- pains and showers would come thicker and sorerupon us ; and that wTe had been long in the fields,but ere we were delivered, we would go dowm toBabylon ; that either Popery would overspreadthis land, or be at the breaking in upon us likeon inundation of water. And preached uponthat text, ‘ Let no man be moved with theseafflictions, for ye yourselves know, that ye are ap¬pointed thereunto.’ Where he insisted on whatmoving and shaking dispensations the Lord hadexercised his people with in former ages, especi¬ally that man of God, that went to Jeroboam atBethel, and delivered bis commission faithfull14and yefc was turned out of the way by an old ly¬ing prophet; how moving and stumbling themanner of his death was to all Israel I And ear¬nestly requested us to take good heed to whatministers we heard, and what advice we follow¬ed. When he prayed, he blessed the Lord thathe was free of both band and rope : and that hewas as clearly willing to hold up the public bleststandard of the gospel as ever: And said, TheLord rebuke, give repentance and forgiveness tothese ministers that persuaded these prisoners totake that bond. For their perishing by sea wasmore moving and shocking to him, than if somethousands of them had been shun in the field.He was thereafter taken, the 6th. of April, byMajor Johnston, in Edinburgh, and detainedprisoner in the Bass, where he died. As the in¬terest of Christ lay near his heart through his life,amongst his last words he said, The Lord will de¬fend his own cause.17. Shortly after that sad stroke at Bothwebhe went to Ireland, but did not stay long at thattime. In his travels through Galloway, he cameto a house, and looking in the goodman’s face, hesaid, They call you an honest man, but if yoube so, you look not like it, you will not longkeep that name, but will discover yourself to bewhat you are. And shortly after, he was made16to flee for sheep-stealing. In that short time hewas in Ireland, the Governor required of allPresbyterian ministers that were in Ireland, thatthey should give it under their hand, that theyhad no accession to the late rebellion at Bothwel*bridge, in Scotland, and that they did not approveof it; which the most part did; and sent Mr.Thomas Gowans, a Scotsman, and one Mr. Pa-ton, from the north of Ireland to Dublin, to pre¬sent it to the Lord Lieutenant: the which whenMr. Peden heard, he said, Mr. Gowans and hisbrother Mr. Paton are sent and gone the devil’serrand but God will arrest them by the gate.And accordingly, Mr. Gowans, by the way, wasstruck with a sore sickness, and Mr. Paton fellfrom his horse, and broke or crushed his leg; andboth of them were detained beyond expectation.I had this account from some worthy Christianswhen I was in Ireland.18. In the year 1682. he married John Brownin Kyle, at his own house in Priesthall, that sin¬gular Christian, upon Marion Weir. After mar¬riage; he said to the bride, Marion, you havegot a good man to be your husband, but youwill not enjoy him long ; prize his company, andkeep linen by you for his winding-sheet, for youwill need it when you are not looking for it, andit will be a bloody one. This came sadly to pass-in the beginntn;; i>f May, 168', »••• afterwanshall appear.19. After this, in the year 1682, he wentIreland again, and came to the house of WilliaiSteel, in Glenwharry, in the county of Antrimhe enquired at Mrs. Steel if she wanted a serva;for threshing victual ? She said they did, and e:quired what his wages were a-day, or a-weeHe said, the common rate was a common rulolto which she assented—At night he was putbed, in the barn, with the servant-lad; and thnight he spent in prayer and groaning, up aidown the barn. On the morrow he threshed vitual with the lad, and the next night he spent tlsame way. The second day, in the morning, tllad said to his mistress, This man sleeps non*but groans and prays all night; I get no sleep fhim : he threshes very well, and is not sparing.himself, tho’ I think he has not been used with ifoi he can do nothing to the botteling and ordeing of the bam; and when I put the barn in ctier, he goes to such a place, and there he prafor the afflicted Church of Scotland, and namso many in; the furnace—He wrought the secojfday; and his mistress watched and overheard hSpraying, as the lad had said.-—At night she dsired her husband to enquire if he was a minister*which he did, and desired him to be free wif»17him, and he should not only be no enemy to him,but a friend. Mr. Peden said, he was not asham¬ed of his office; and gave an account of his cir¬cumstances. He was no more set to work, nor tolie with the lad; and he staid a considerable timein that place, and was a blessed instrument in theconversion uf some, and civilizing- of otherS;though that place was noted for a wild rude peo¬ple, and the fruit of his labour appears unto thisday. There was a servant-lass in that house,that he chuld not look upon but with frowns : andsometinies, when at family-worship, he said, point-irtg to her with a frowning countenance. Youcome from the harn and from the byre reeking inyour lusts, and sits down among us; we do not •want you, nor none- such. At last he said toWilliam Steel and his wife, Put that unhappylass from your house, for she will be a stain toyour family, for she is' with chikl, and will mur¬der it, and will be punished for the same. Whichaccordingly came to pass, and she was burnt atGarrick fergus, which is the punishment of mur-lerers of children there. I had this account fromJohn Muirhead, who staid much in that-house;: md other Christian people, when in Irelands■ 20-. After this, he longed to be out of Ire-and, through the fearful apprehensions of thatdismal day of rebellion in Ireland, that came up-18■on it four years thereafter, and that he mighttake part with the sufferers in Scotland. Hecame near the coast one morning: John Muir-head came to him; lying witliin a hedge: hesaid, Have you any news, John? John said*There is great fear of the Irish rising. He said,no, no, John, the time of their arising is not yet;but they will rise, and dreadful will it be at last.He was long detained waiting for a bark, not dar¬ing to go to public parts, but to some remotecreek of the sea. Alexander Gordon of Kinstuir*in Galloway, had agreed with one, but Mr. Pe-den would not sail the sea with him, having some ,foresight of what he did prove afterwards.—Inthe beginning of August before this, Kinstuir wasrelieved at Enterken-path, going from Dumfries |to Edinburgh prisoner; when the news of it cameto Ireland, our Scots sufferers, their acquaintance* iwere glad of the news, especially that Kinstuir ihad escaped. Mr. Peden said, What means all |this Kinstuiring ?—There is some of them re-!lieved there, that one of them is worth many of fhim; for ye will be ashamed of him ere all be fdone. Being in this strait, he said to RobertWark, an old worthy Christian, worthy of credit, iRobert, go and take such a man with you andthe first Bark ye can find, compel them, for they].will be like the dogs in Egypt, not one of themwill move their tongue against you. AccordinglyRobert and his comrade found it so and broughther to that secret place where he was. WhenRobert and his comrade came and told him, hewas glad and very kind and free ; but lie seemedunder a cloud at that time. He said lads, I havelost my prospect wherewith I was wont to lookover to the bloody land, and tell you and other3what enemies and friends were doing; the deviland I puddles and rides time-about upon one an¬other : but if I were uppermost again, I shall ridehard, and spurgaw well. I have been prayingfor a swift passage over to the sinful land, comeof us what will: and now Alexander Gordon isaway with my prayer-wind ; but it were good forthe remnant in Scotland be never saw it; for asthe Lord lives, he shall wound that interest erehe go off the stage.—This sadly came to pass inhis life, and was a reproach to it at his death. Alittle before they came off, he baptised a child to. John Maxwell, a Glasgow man, who was fled4 over from the persecution: in his discourse be-!| fore baptism, he burst out into a rapture, fore-telling that black day that was to come upon■tj Ireland, and sad days to Scotland, and after allJ there was to come good days. Mrs. Maxwell, orMary Elphingston, the mother of the child, yetalive in Glasgow, told me this, That in the time4 : -i. ' 1be Wfiirusserting these things, she was thinkingand wondering what ground of assurance he hadfor them, when he cried aloud shaking his hand:at her, woman, thou art thinking and wondering.;,within thyself, whether I be speaking these things--;out of the vfsdns of my own head, or if I be taught iby the Spirit of God; I tell the, woman, thou Ishalt live and see that I am not mistaken. She >told me, that she was very lately delivered, andout of her great desire, to have her child baptisedbefore he came off, that she took travail too soon;and being weak, and so surprised with his tellingher the thoughts of her heart, that she was indanger of falling off the chair. At this exercisealso he told them, that he could not win off till he jgot this done, and this was all the drink-money,he had left in Ireland, and to the family (pointingto the landlord ) for all the kindness he had metwith from them. After baptism they got breakfast; there was plenty of bread upon the table,seeking a blessing, he put his hand beneath thebread, and holding it up with much aflectioh andtears, said, “ Lord there is a well covered tableand plenty of bread : but what comes of the poor !jyoung, kindly, honest hearted lad Renwick, thatshames us all, in starving and holding up hi;fainting mother’s head, when of all the childrenshe has brought forth, there is none will avowed-iy take her by the nand: and the poor, cold, hun-lads on the hills ? For honour of thine owndse, let them not starve : thou caused a raven-'U4 bird, greedy of flesh itself, to feed Elijah:nd thou fed thy people in the wilderness withngel’s food : and blessed a few loaves and smallshes, and made them sufticient for many; anduad experience of want, w'eariness cold and hun¬ger, and enemies daily hunting for thy life, whilet*ie World; look to them, and provide for them.”Waiters''being - advertised of the bark beingthat place, they and other'people camO uponhem, which Obliged them that were to come off,o ■secure the Waiters1 and people altogether, forear of the garrison of Carrickfergus apprehend-ng them, being nea* to it, which obliged them. o -come off immediately, tw'enty-sifc of our Scotsufferers came aboard, he stood upon the deck andirayed, there being not the least wind, where henade a rehearsal of times and places, when andvhere the Lord had heard and answered them inhe days of their distress and how they were in arreat strait—Waving his hand to the west, fromvhence he desired the wind, he said, 1 Lord give a(oof-full of wind : fill the sails Lord and give us aIresh gale, and let us have a swift passage1 oveio the bloody land, come of Us what will.’—JohnIMulrhead, Robert Walk, and others who were122present, told me, that when he began to pray, thesails were all hanging straight down, but ere heended, they were all like blown bladders. TheJput out the Waiters and other people and got 4very swift and safe passage—The twenty-silScots sufferers that were with him, having provid¬ed themselves with arms, and being designed toreturn to Scotland, there being then such a noiseof killing ; and the report was no greater than thedeed, it being then in the heat of killing time, inthe end of Febuary 1685. when at exercise in thebark, he said, ‘ Lord thou knowest these lads arehot spirited, lay an arrest upon them, that theymay not appear; then' time is not yet; thoughMonmouth and Argyle be coming, they will workno deliverance.’ At that time there was no re-.port of their coming, for they came not for tenweeks thereafter In the morning after theylanded, he lectured before they parted, sitting up*on a brae-side, where he had fearful threatening'sagainst Scotland saying, the time was comingthat they might travel many miles in Gallo wa)and Nithsdale, Ayr and Clydesdale, and not se«a reeking house, nor hear a cock crow.28. When the day of his death drew near, amnot being able to travel, he came to his brother’house, in the parish of Sorn, where he was borjiHe caused dig a cave with a saughen bush novelt23ing the mouth of it, near to his brother’s houseand the enemies came and searched the housenarrowly many times. In the time that he wasin this cave, he said to some friends, 1. ThatGod shall make Scotland a desolation. 2. Thereshall be a remnant in the land, whom God shouldspare and hide. 3. They should lie in holes andcaves of the earth, and be supplied with meatand drink: And whan they come out of theirholes, they shall not have freedom to walk, forstumbling’ on the dead corpses. 4. A stone cutof a mountain, should come down, and God shallbe avenged on the great ones of the earth, andthe inhabitants of the land, for their wickedness,and then the church should come forth with abonny bairn-time of young ones at her back.He wished that the Lord’s people might lie hidin their caves, as if they were not in the world,for nothing wo»ld do it, until God appeared withhis judgments, and they that wan through thebitter and sharp, short storm, by the sword ofthe Frenches, and a set of unhappy men, takingpart with them, then there would be a spring-tideday of the plenty, purity and power of the gos¬pel : Giving them that for a sign, If he were butonce buried, they might be in doubts ; but if hewere oftener buried than once, they might be per¬suaded that all he had said would come to pass:24Ami earnestly desired them to take his corpseout to Airdsmoss, and bury them beside Itichy(meaning Mr. Cameron ) that he might get restin his grave, for he had gotten little through hislife; hut he said he knew they would not do it.29. Within forty-eight hours he died, Janu¬ary 28th. ;1686, being past sixty years; and wasbuired in the Laird of Afflect’s Isle. The enem-, 'es got notice of his death and burial, and senta troop of dragoons, and lifted his corpse andcarried him to Cumnock-gallows foot, and buriedhim there (after being forty days in the grave )beside others. His friends thereafter laid agrave-stone above liim, with this inscription :r * r - , rr f j. ' f» rltUW ' HERE LIESMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,A Faithful Minister of thg Gospel,at Glenluce,Who departed this life January 28, 1686,And was raised after six weeksOut of his Grave,.r ’ v* ,' a- • * * Mj t ? r r 1 »1 • 1^<And buried here out of contempt.Jnd 9Tuw ad 11 .flgia’mdl tmf) modi •guivtO : l-x:FINIS.-loq ad Jdgim {ofli t30fic m: aasq oJ anioo bh/ow bh;-vo*fil'r '■ - ■ - -——