TRAVELSTROMALEPPOTO THErAND THROUGHTHE HOLY LAND,In the Year 1776.Et RICH All D TYRON, Esq.STIRLING:PRINTEB BY W. MACK1EWher(> *s »!v*a?s kept on Sale, a choice and eititVve A wort-meet of Histories, Songt, Children’s Stbry 2>w?«,School Rooks, &c. dec.TRAVELSAleppo to Jerusalem, &c.Having been often importuned by several acquaint nees since my arrival in England, to publish my travels tnro' the liolyland ; and in order both to satisfy therrand oblige the public, I have compbeiwith their ft quests, therefore, wiihou'at?y further preface, take them as follows:On Tuesday, May 3 1, 1776, we set saifrom Soanderoon, with a N. E. wind, orboard the Margaret, 'f’homas Middletorcommander, being twenty English mef(of the factory of Aleppo) in company:but being forced to return three times bjcontrary v mds, by May, so we arrive*. *at Tri|.oH, whose port is gua^led by sijsroali cissies near the sea, and one grea |castle upon tlte land ; defended from temipests on the west with islands, and the easwith a ca pe of land j so that only a north. Iwind can prejudice ships in this port. Th«iground is stony, which forced the captainto ! uoy up their cables, the ships ridingin six or seven fathom water. The tow?is about a mile from the marine, situat.upon the shell of a hill, and hath one gooicaule for its deRtice. The town is rui3nate, and there were few people to b«seen, it being the iime of making whitesilk, and most of the people in their gar*dens.May 15. After three days treatment bythe consuls ( English, French, and Dutch)with extraordinary civility, about fivein the-morning, we rose from thence, amiadvanced with our guides to take a viewrof Lebanon, which, when taken at large,■jp about 300 miteS in circumference, andconsists of two large mountains Lebanoniiand Antilibanus, and appears at a distanceijto resemble the shape of a horse shoewith its opening towards the north. Themountain is exceeding high, and look*like as it were four mountains rising oneiiabove another: the first has fuitful soil,excellent for vines ; the second is barren ;the third enjoys an almost perpetual spring;the fourth is often covered with snow.The cedars on the top of it, which wet*anciently very numerous, are now reduced)to a few, but some of them very large.Our guide told us that it was very dangei-ous to go near the top of the mountain asthere were Vast numbers of lions, leparde,iand other wild beasts frequented it j scwe could only admire the cedars at a dis¬tance. Here Jordan has its rise, and se¬veral other great rivers. The tower of4Lebanon, which looked towards Damas-pus, is.iiow inhabited h> .Popish monks, inciicnmstances vt-rv. wretched ; but wildArabs swaim almost every wherein it. Inthe^ western parts nf it dwe* thp Druses,jwho are saidfto be the.rernaius of the Ea-roptstfu CriJis ides, that .went tortile parts,in the 1 ilh, EAh, and 13;h centuiies, torithe recovvi \ of t he Holy Land. They aresbaptised, and hate, as we vveretold, the Jews';and Mahometans, at)fi have not hithertosubmitted, to tie Turkish yoke; but thebulk-o! them have little tnqre religion thantine,wild beasts among whom they dwell,,allowing of all manner of lewdness witblmoihtrs, sist^is, and daughters. In theway as we returned there came to us a cap*taiti of a village called Upshaia, he invitedns to dinner at hts village, w; ich we ac¬cepted of,', and after dinner made him aipresent. I'ms man is a Maronite, and!takes caff r ci toll of tire Turks which passthat way with then sheep and oxen ; he ,bath a. hundred soldiers under his cotr:-UT'-'ii *.,• who are all Christians. About twoo’clock we mounted, and alter three hours :riding, we cams to a mighty steep descentjy,Hiding,in and out, which is the patnarchhof the Ma.onites house, called Aunibeneit is Vvery good convent, and hes undera ruck : they have a bell in the church, as.5in Europe, and go to their devotions morn¬ing and evening. After we had kissed the(patriarch’s hand, we demanded what wasjto be seen, and the dfuggerman carried usitjto see Marrice's Cross, ot whom they re¬-count this story :“That a Venetian, in the time that thei'jFranks had the country, came with hisjwife and one daughter to live there ; andLatter some years his wife dying, he was^resolved to co into the convent and liveja religious life, and would-therefore have[this daughter to leave him, hut his persua-fejsions could not prevail with her; but rather1: than leave her father, she wcul i put onliman’s apparel, and live a devoted life with!pi him also; v, hichy-at last, though u owiiling-|ly, he assented to, si.e-being young andphandsome i there they lived very strictlyfor several years; afterwards her fatherdied. 1 he lay-brothers and fathers goingout, as usual, to till the ground, she sel¬dom went with thenijM he chief of the con¬vent keeping her at home, being much ta¬ken with such a handsomely oung man as hethought, whereupon they began to crum¬ble, ISt M arena a did not go with t ern ;Iso tUvt as the Fratres he was s i out to workamong them near the village Turs; pre-i semly after, one of the young virgins of; that place proving with child, she came tofthe convent,, and laid it to the charge oSt. Marenns, who was thereupon present¬ly excommunicated, and lived a religious•Mfe in the grot nt-ar the convent, for thespace of seven \ ears; and being then again jadoiittedj'into t ie convent, and still con- jtinuing to live a very stride,life, but he at 1length die i, and the Fratres coming, ac¬cording to thttr custom to anoint the bo-giy, found that he was a woman, where¬upon they beg » to cross themselves, andk> beg pardon for excommunicating her,and have built an alter in the grot, andcalled it by the name ofSt. Marenna, as theyhave also in several grots thereabouts; inremembrance of the religious relics of thosethat dwell therein ; and when they carry,any body to see them they presently falldown to prayers.”About a league from the convent aretwo Frenchmen that live a hermit’s life,having bread and wine allowed t’hem by flthe patriarch. Night coming on, we wentto supper with the patriarch, the bishops ofAleppo, and two other bishops, with whatthe place afforded. At supper they broughtout a great glass which held near two Eng¬lish quarts, with which the ol I man soonmade himself merry, it being their customto drink heartily ; he telling us, that thatglass had belonged to the convert above ahundred years; and that the Turks com¬ing once to ransack the convent, seeing thisglass, told the Fratres, if he could drinkoff that full of pure wine he would savethe convent; which one of them doing,ithe Turks went away, admiring what sortof people they were. May 16ih, we took(Our leave of the patriarch, and presentedhim with some money, also the poorFratres, and others belonging to the con¬vent, and so took our jo'urney to Tripoli,having had a review of those mountainsand the country adjacent, overspread withirnany fair villages, and fruitful valleysi sown with corn, and a great quantity ofmulberry gardens ; it being the general!employment of the inhabitants to makesil^.May 25. In the morning, we mounted.ii to take our journey fnr Jerusalem, and■halted at St. Jerom’s church about twelve,i to eat what small provision we had withtj us ; and the heat of the day being passedJ we proceeded on our journey ; and aboutfour in the afternoon we tar.ied till thedruggermen of the convent went to thei cady for license lor us to en*cr the city ;1 which having obtained, and delivering up] our swor hs, and what other arms we had1 to be carried to the convent, we entered\ the city on foot, and were conducted by8the drudgg&rtmm to the Latin-’s convent,with two or three:fathers; we found themat their devotion, and afterwards all, wentinto the father-guardiaa’s chamber, andhid us welcome. 1The next day, May 27:h, we ail agreed,to .go into the tempie, . ml. about four inthu afternoon we went. Ten cr twelveOthers live there continually, and havetheir church {litre. The door is sealedwith the cady’s seal, ami when any man.goes in, he piyt fourteen livres. Webeing entered the temple, the fathers cameand saluted us, and conducted us to tneirlodgings; where, after we had been aboutan hour, they prepared to go in proces ‘sion to all the holy places,, presenting usevery one a book of holy songs, for e-very place in Latin. And so we went tothe places following:1. The pillar to which our Saviour wasbound when he was scourged. t2d. Theprison wherein be was put. 3d. The placewhere the soldiers divided his garments.4th. The place wbvie St. Helena found purSaviour’s cross. 5th. The pillar to whichhe was bound whin, he was crowned withthorns. (Jtl* M< # it Calvary, where he wascrucified. 7th- Where our Saviour was nail¬ed to the crc?s. 8th. Where he was anoint-®d. 9th. The sepulchre of Christ. lOtb.9’ Where our Saviour appeared to Mary! Magdalen in the s^ape of a gardener. 11th.The chapel of the virgin Mary, whereour Saviour first appeared to her after his‘resurrection. I might give you a parti¬cular description of . he adorpjmenf of theseliphces ; but to be short every one of themhave lamps burning, soiiie are p.a^ed withiimarble, ethers are hung with pictures :the place where our Saviour was laid downto be nailed to the cross is paved withnarble aho ; but in the exact place wherehe cross stco.l, the marble is covered o.rer with silver, with silver lamps, andwax candles continually burning, and our.jpaviour crucified standing on it: the se-ijpuichre is also covered with marble, with(Silver lamps continually burning on it ; soIhath the anointing stone. You must gointo the sepulchre barefoot, as also onMount Calvary.May 28th. We went out of the city atDamascus gate, and turning on the rightcame to one of the iTh ponds of the oldcity, and a quarter of a qrdle further tothe grot where Jeremiah lived when hewrote his Lament dions ; on the left handin the entrance, is a lodge in the rock,about a story high, where they sayJeremiah slept ; and below, over againstthe door, is a hole islanded for his10sepulchre : passing through a ruinate door,you come into the yard where his well is,being a very good spring of sweet water,and there you pay one livre. Afterwardspassing along the side of a mountain thatlies level with the ciiy,' a little beyondJeremiah’s tomb, we c:ime to the sepulch¬re of the kings ; the first entrance into therooms is so small and low', that we wereforced to creep ; in the first are seven se¬pulchres cu. cut of the rock, in the secondroom there are eight, and in the thirdtwenty six, and. many more in severalOthers. One of the rooms hath a door ofstone cut out of the rock, and shuts andopens as a door with hinges : This doorbelongs to the room wherein Jehosaphat ,was buried, 1 is ctffin is of stone, witha cover to it, very neatly wi ought on thesides with flowers, as severals are also inthe first room ; but they know not whatkings they are. There is also anotherchamber into which we crept, so that thereis in all fort'v two burying-placts underground, to which there is but one doorto enter, ail adorned with admirable work¬manship, whicn 1 being unskilled in, amKnfit to exprtss in proper terms ; and sowe returned to the convent, entering theeiiy at the same gate.May £9tb. We reposed, some of our' conipany being a-marking themselves.' May o(J;h, we 100k horse to go to Bethle-j heir, aoout six miles south of Jerusalem,i and went out at the west gate, and turn-! iug on the kft hand, and taking the low-1 er path, we Pfissed along the road thati the wrgin Mary brought our Saviour whenI she came to offer him al tne temple $ andI half a mile from the city is the place whersIthe tree Tirabin'ha grew, which the vir-| gits Mary sak under to gave him stfck ;4butI tiie tree being cut down, the place is eo-! compassed with a wall : On the left handwin see David’s house, whence he spied,Bethsheba washing herself; on the right,it a little off the road, is old Simeon’s andII Elias’s house; and a quarter of amilefur-fc tlier is the well, where the wise men firstsaw the star. A little further is the groundwhere the reapers were at work, whenHabbakkuk was going to them withmeat, the angel took him up by the hairof the head, and curried him into Babylonto Daniel in the lion’s den : Afterwardswe saw Jacob’s house, and a hill like asugar loaf, whore the Franks remainedforty years after they wore driven out ofJerusalem : Noxt is a monastery of monksof the order of St Tavola Paula Romans,who, when they die, are buried at a coif^vent in Bethlehem.uVfe mounted our horses, and at a dis¬tance we snv St. George’s church, wherethe lathers say the chains remain where¬with St. George was bound, which willpresently cure a madman, if bound there¬with. After an hour and a half’s ridingwe came near Beth'ehem, where passingthrough a nonow lane, the guard consist¬ing of four or live musqueteers, received !five livres of every one of us, and thedruggermen that went with us receivedthree ; wne.n arriving at the convent wepaid one for omr entrance.* After beingwelcomed by thef.thers we took our re¬pose till five in the evening, and then pre¬pared to go in procession to the holy places,in the same manner as we did at the tern-pie in Jerusalem. The places we visitedwere these :• 1st. The place where our Saviour wasborn. 2d. The tomb of St. Joseph, towhom the virgin Mary was espoused. Sd.St. Innocent’s tomb. 4th. The.place whereSt. Jerom lived, when lie translated theBible into Latin, $tn. St. Jerom’s prayingplace. 6th. St. Jerom’s tomb. 7th. St. Paul’stomb. 8th. St. Eustachias her daughter’s,ifth. The sepu.chre of St. Eusebius, Abbotof Bethlehem. 10th. We returned to thechapel of St. Catiunna, buiit by St. Peula.Nixt is the great church without the con-I vent, which hath forty-eight pillars ofi mar ble, about- three )ards long, all in•oj one piece. At evening we went to visiti the place of our Saviour’s birth, formerly..j belonging to the Latins, till the Greeks! bought it out of their hands ; so that nowthe Latins, when they go to their, proces-. sicn, pray at that door by which they for-merl) entered. The precipio has two doors: one over against tiie other, well lined withij carved iron, and strengthened with iron] spikes ; we went in barefoot. On theright hand in the entrance is the placeII they say were our Saviour wras born, whichI is lined w ith silver.Having seen what was rare at Bethle¬hem, May loth, early in the morning weij proceeded in our journey, in which we. saw the following places :1. The grot where the virgin Mary hidherself when she was warned to flee into: Egypt. 2, David’s cisterns. 3. The groti wherein the virgin Mary and Joseph liv¬ed, before they got a house. 4. TheI tomb of Rachel. 5. The field ol'Senacbribthe place wheie the pillars of the conventof Ramah were made, the vineyard whencethe spies of the land of Canaan took thecluster of grapes, &c.v t he desart of JohnBaptist, Zechariah’s house, a stone whereJohn Baptist preached, where.John Bap-14list was born, the tombs of the Maccab.bees, which we saw at a distance and be¬ing ruinated appears as so many archts,we came to the mountain Crupil, wherepart of the wood whereof our Saviour'scross was made grew.And now we got forward to the convent jat Jerusalem, pasdng by Mount Gihon,where Solomon was anointed king, andabout night came to our lodgings, havingmade two days journey ,to see the hulyplaces, and traverse the mountains of Ju¬dea : we slept well that night, but stillhad more pilgiimages. June 1st, wg iaystill to recover ourselves of our Betiilch- mjourney ; but father Tomaso, out of hiszeal, was very importunate with us to bewalking to see other places which is verymeritorious in the Roman church ; andhad we been of (heir religion, it had been 1impossible to have missed heaven ; for wehad received indulgences for all our lives,by which too many are deceived. June 2d,we began for to seaich for the holy places,which are these following : The immola¬tion of Isaac near the temple called MountMoriah, Peter's prison, the monasteryof the knights of Malta, Solomon’s tem¬ple, St. Helena’s ho»pital, the judgment-gate at which our Savi >ur whs brought in,the gate out at which Christ went to be415crucified, Herod’s palace now ruinated,Piiate’s house ; here they shew the place'whete our Saviour was crowned withthorns, and the pillar to which he wasibound ; the place where Christ was scour¬ged, now a shop for. linen cloth ; the.house of Annas, Simon the Pharasee’s(house, the house of Joakim and Anna, thepool of Bethsaida, St. Stephen’s tomb, thevalley of Jehosaphat, the pUce where thevirgin Mary is buried, the place where the(prophet Isiah was sawn asunder, and thefountain of Siloa. We then came to the{fountains of Beersheba, at the bottom ofi1 Mount Sion, in which there is liitie water,| we being forced to tarry a quarter of anr hour for one draught.Having seen all that was remarkable in(these parts, we made towards the conventhaving got a great deal of confidence withfather Tomaso, that we should be suchzealous pilgrims, as to walk from five inthe rnorniog.to mid-day ; blit at length wecame to the convent again well wearied,every one retiring to his lodgings.' June 3d. Wc reposed at the convent j5 after dinner one of the fathers came and1 told us, that the father guardian wouldp wash our feet; which honour we account¬ed too great for us, and desired to be ex¬cused $ but we were forced to comply with16the orders of the convent ; the basin,which was as big as a tub, was placed bya chair, there were rose leaves and herbsput into tiie water: the fathers stood in arow, singing godly hymns We saf down, :and the father.guardiui) wrapt a towel a-bout our knees, to save our clothes ; tiien tthey beyan to scrub our legs and feet,being roasters of their art, ; there were jtwo Fratres attending, one on one side,and another on the other ; - having firstdried the left foot, the fathers kisses it,and puts on our slipper, then he dries theright toot, and wraps ihe towel about the 'soal of’the foot, and setting it on his kneecoyeis the toes" with his hand, and thencome ail the f’tatris and kiss it ; he thengives us a little candle, in taking which,we k'ss his hand, and so rise and stand up ,till all our company are washed in this jmanner. Then went we in procession fround their chapel, they saying severalpayers at three altars, and so we return¬ed to our chambers. June 4th, after din- •ner we went into the kitchen, where wefound all the fathers, with napkins before 'them, washing the dishes, every one tak¬ing his part, even to the father guardianhimself; some were cleansing, some hand¬ing away ; but all the while with one con¬sent they say some prayer, it seeming to be17lltheir endeavour, that all that they doimay be to the glory of God. This beingI done, they go ail to prayers, and you'(shall never see the chapel without someof them ; yea, and two or three timts inthe night they rise to prayers..Now we began to think of going to theIlDead Sea, and the river Jordan, demand¬ing what our expense would he, the fs-'thers said °25 livres, but we ail agreed notd to give above twenty, 'rive fathers senti: our resolution to the Bassa, and he ret urn-m| ed answer that if we would go, we shouldi| pay 22 livres, and if we would not, he'll would have ten livres a man. We think-i ing ourselves under his command, were.:i| not willing to embroil the convent, whoj bear all damages, as they have done toseverals; but t hanks to Go I, none happen-3 ed in our time. We all resolved to go,3 except MrT. one Englishman more, and( a Dutchman, not thinking the Bas'a haid| been in earnest :■ but because they wentnot, they were foiced to pay 10 livrest a man. We tiven came to Bethany, two’i rriiles east from Jerusalem, now a smallvillage, where entering into a grot underground, we saw a tomb, from whencethey say our Saviour raised Lazarus fromthe dead. A U&le ] urther they shew you18the house of Mary Magdalen, and thewell the apostles used to drink at.We then proceeded for the river Jordan.We observed before that the uppermostspring of this noted river is in Mount Le-banon, about \i miles north of CesareaPhilippi. After it has run about 13 milesmore to the south, it receives a consider- jable branch, which underground proceeds jto the lake Phiala. About two hours af¬ter, in our way tothesea, wre passed througha most cursed barren place not having somuch as a green herb, or a pile of grass,and the face of the earth covered withsalt, and tho’ dry yet our horses sank upto the knees. I am persuaded that this isthe Valley of Salt, mentioned in 2 Kingsxiv. 7* We came now to the dead sea, be¬ing about 50 miles in length and 15 broad.There is not a place frong whence the wa-iter which comes into it runs out again, ex¬cept it be under the earth ; neither doth itseem to increase with the river Jordanand several other waters that do run intoit. It was once a fruitful valley, and com¬pared fbr delight to paradise, and calledPentapolis, being five cities but after-»wards destroyed from heaven, and turnedinto this filthy lake and barren desolationwhich doth encompass it. And to try thevirtue that is reported to be in the water,19therein they say a man cannot sink, somebf our company went into the lake, andfound it impossible to get their bo lies un-• tier water, yea, could hardly keep theirlegs under. The water is sulphury, andthe extremity of saltness not to be expres*arsed. When they came out, there was a^perfect eil upon their bodies. Our eyes1 being satisfied wkh curiosities and rarities,we made haste back to Jerusalem. Theiiruins of one of the cities that were destroy-iled for Sodomy, -now lies a good part out;ofthe water, and is supposed to be Ze-boim.Having now visited all the places wor-Ithy of notice in the Holy Land, which tra-SiTellers usually do, we now begin to thinkof leaving Jerusalem ; but father Tomasodabeing still wanting to entertain us as far astin his power, shewed us a very exact map'of the boundariesof ancient ('ana^n, or theilLand of Promise. It was accordrng to the(nearest calculation, about L800 miles injlength, from Dan on the north, to Beer-:sheba on the south, and from east to westabout 80: and so comprehends in all, muchabout 9 338000 acres of ground ; of whicheach of the 601.730 Hebrew warriors whoconquered it, might h ive about 12 or 13acres for each of their shares, that wereat the conquering of it.• ?0Father Tomaso, who seems to be a v?ry ;judicious man, told us that he had been atMount Sinai, which stands on the south tcorner of the^bosom of the lied Sea, about ,260 miles eastward of Grand Cairo in. ;Egypt. The desart on the south and west \ot it, is a pretty high ground for about ;twelve miles, ami is distinguished with a I,variety of lesser hills. The mountain is ofno great extent, but very high, and hathtwo tops, the western of which is calledHoreb j and the eastern, which he sup- ;poses to be about a third higher, is pro- •perly called Sinai. The ascent of both isvery steep, and can only be ascended by :steps which the empress Helena, trie mo-, ■ther of Constantine the Great, caused to be jcut in the marble rock. At the top otSinai, he says, There is an uneven and rug¬ged place, which would hold about sixty;persons. Here stands a chapel dedicatedto St. Catharine; and near to it, on thebrow of the barren rock, is a fountain of Ifresh water. The monks th.it dwell hersnhave, with ashes, &c., made a sort of a suil|for a garden. From the top of tin's mount, IGod proclaimed his law to the Hebrews,Bfrom amid terrible flames of fire. Heatold us likewise, that he viewed the rockaRephiddim, which seems to have been a Iclift fallen off from the side of Sinai, and j•21'lies like a large loose stone in the midstof4he valley. It is ot a red garnet coloor,.the lr>ard«)esS ol' fltnt, and i* nig'« about sixiyards,square ; and there is twelve open*-ings in it, whence the water gushed outifbr tire thirty nine years supply of the He¬brews, ana tire stone is worn whero thei water had run down.ilermoi), is a mountain on the north-';i east of the .oly Land, beyond Jordan, alittle,southward of Lebanon. The dew;i that falls upoa k is beautiful and fine : In aI summer evening it will wet one to the skin,and.yet is in no daiigei in sleeping at night,as we were told, in the open fields. The'< snow Iks on it most part of tire summer,Sand was anciently cankd from thence toTyre, that the people there might drinktheir wine in flisco.—Giiboa, the moun-i tain noted for tire defeat of the Hebrews,i andthe slaughter of Said and his three sons,lies about sixty miles north of Jerusalem ;i and though David in his elegy, wished itsf wonted fertility turned into barrenees.&nddrought, yet we were assured that dewI falls ou it. as well as on other places,i Jerusalem iks about 25 miles vp^«t-ward of Jordan, and about 42 east of theMediterranean Sea, 90 miles south of Da¬mascus, 3U0 miles south cf Aleppo, and- fidO miles north-east of Grand C»iv© ia22Egypt. It stands on a high rock, with fsteep ascents on every side, except on the jnorth. It is surrounded with a deep val* jley, which is again encompassed with hills, jThe city at present is about three miles jin circumference : The walls and fortifi¬cations seem to be very ancient; but the jprivate buildings are mostly very mean,*nd thinly inhabited. The resort ofpi|grims hither only render it considerable ; jjand the accommodating them with lodgings |and provisions is thechief business of the in.habitants. For the protect ion of the pil¬grims against the Arabs, and to receivethe tribute exacted ot them, a Basha atways resides here with a guard of Janiza*ries. As to the particular places in and a*bout Jerusalem, we have already describ¬ed them.We being resolved to set forward in themorning, the father guardian came andgave us his blessing, and sprinkled us withholy water, and taking our leaves, ihifathers shewed great affection to us, weep- |ing, and expressing their desires to enjoy jour company longer ; and our deskrs wereas much to be nearer home, to have ).account of our friends.We departed, our muleteers having ;provided horses, intending to take Em- |.mans in our journey, but night coming |23i on, we made St. Jerom’s church our sleep¬ing place ; formally lathers lived in it, butthe Arabs came upon them in the night,i and cut all their throats. June 15th, wei arrived at the convent of Ramah about10 in the morning, where we tarried till• midnight, at which time there was a shipto depart, and some of u? intended to em¬bark. We put our provisions of bread{ and^wine aboard, and so put to sea, keep-i ing always near the shore for fear of aI storm. After three iIfvs sail we arrived;; at Acrica, formerly Ptoiemais, once a fa-i mous city of. Galilee. Two days after we" arrived at Tripoli, capital city of the king-j dom of that name We lodged here agamEi at the consul’s house for a great manyj days, who treated us like princes ; but theplague being raging in Aleppo, anothergentleman and myself, took it into ®urheads to go and visit Loretto, a city ofItaly. Loretto is a small fortified town,consisting of one street within the gate,and another without, the richest in the■ world. For, according to Catholic tradi¬tion. the chamber of the blessed Virgin,(in which she was born, and was salutedby the angel, and brought up her son Je¬sus till he was twelve years of age,) wa«brought by angels into Dalmatia, on theeast side o the guiph of Venice ; but the24people of that country rot expressing adue reveration for it, it was three or fouryears afterwards transported over thesgulpli into Italy, and at length fixed at;Loretto, and a magnificient church, thepresent cathedral, over it, in the middlewhereof it now remains, fn it is a imageof the blessed Virgin, with a little Jesusin her arms, and a triple crown on herhead $ her whole person almost coveredwith diamonds and pearls, and round theStatue is a kind of rainbow of preciousstones of various colours, the ornaments,altars, and utensils in this place being in¬expressibly rich. Pope Sixtus V. firstmade Loretto a city and a bishoprick, andit is esteemed the most sacred place underheaven, by ali good Catholics.Having now satisfied our curiosity atLoretto, ve returned safe to Aleppo. Af¬ter our travels through this extensivecountry, we took shipping, and arrived inOld England, to the great joy of ourfriends, and the great pleasure of comingto our native country.The history of our records, we hop?,will be both intertaining and agreeable, a*they are founded ou facts, agreeable t®the Holy Scriptures.FINIS,