THESCRAP-BOOKA SELECTION OF THE BESTJOKES, PUNS, COMIC SAYINGS,JONATHANISMS, &c., &c.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS1856.Price One Penny.(■■T :■ ? vie; ■’i.• . * u'*aja “t-.>' -r/'ti''.EOHITAn Oll'tOO ,8KW- £KXOl.os* ,.a& ,8jmiia^c&ao».^?i.rj-yaa«©« '.tHr flvi amm1!4M£. ’ i '< ttaQ auetKT'O QTHESCRAP-BOOK.A gentleman,complaining to his bootmaker that a pairof boots recently sent were too short, and that ho wantedI a pair to coyer the whole calf, had the following yew d/es¬prit sent to him :—These boots were never made for me,They are too short by half;I want them long enough, d’ye see,To cover all the calf.Why, sir, said Last, with stifled smile,To alter them I’ll try;But if they cover all the calf}They must he five feet high.A gentleman, who had gained a handsome fortune byunremitted industry, was once accosted with, ‘ I say,John, why don’t you have a coat of arms on your car¬riage ?’ ‘ Oh !’ said the gentleman, ‘ I want no coat ofarms ; when I first came into L 1 wore a coat with¬out arms.’An elderly lady, telling her age, remarked that shewas born on the 22d of April. Her husband, who waspresent, observed, ‘ I always thought you were born onthe first of April.’ ‘ People might well judge so,’ re¬sponded the matron, ‘ in the choice I made of a husband.’A gentleman remarking that he had lost his watchthrough the carelessness of a servant, in leaving the houseunguarded, concluded by saying—‘ However, it was a poorone.’ Miss B. replied, 1 Why, sir, a gentleman like youshould have kept a better watch.'A gentleman looking at his watch, just after midnight,cried, ‘ It is to-morrow morning ! 1 must bid you goodnight!'4‘ That’s what I call a repetition,’ exclaimed a friendthe other day. ‘What’s that, Tom?’ said we. ‘Why,look at that sign across the way—J. E. Weller, jeweller.’‘Am I not a little pale?\ inquired a lady, who wasrather short and corpulent, of a crusty old bachelor.1 You look more like a big tub,' was the blunt reply.An Irishman fights before he reasons; a Scotchmanreasons before he fights ; an Englishman is not particu¬lar as to the order of precedence, but will do either, toaccommodate his customers,A recent philosopher discovered a method to avoidbeing dunnea ! ‘ How—how—how?’ we hear everybodyasking. Never run in debt.‘ How beautiful,’ said a lady, ‘ the face of nature looksafter undergoing a shower !’ ‘ Yes, madam, and sowould yours, after undergoing a similar process.’Dr. Samuel Johnson, when travelling in Inverness-shire with Boswell, addressed a man at work in a peat¬moss. ‘ How far are we from Fort-William, friend ? Ithink wo have been deviating the last half hour.’ ‘ Likecneuch,’ replied the man, ‘but I’ve been divoting heresin’ six o’clock this morning.’A pretty girl was lately complaining to a friend thatshe had a cold, and was sadly plagued in her lips bychaps' (cracks or clefts.) ‘ Friend,’ said Obadiah, ‘ theeshould never suffer the chaps to come near thy lips.’An American physician announces that he has changedhis residence to the neighbourhood of the churchyard,which he hopes may prove a convenience to his nume¬rous patients!When Bishop Aylmer observed his congregation inat¬tentive, he used to read some verses out of the HebrewBible, at which the people naturally stared with aston¬ishment. He then addressed them on the folly of greedilylistening to what concerned them not, while they wereinattentive to matters in which their best interests weredeeply involved.If wisdom’s ways you’d wisely seek,Five things observe with care:Of whom you speak—to whom you speak—And how—and when—and where.5(What is light V asked a schoolmaster of the booby ofBass. 1 A sovereign that isn’t full weight is light,’ wasprompt reply.P your sister, while tenderly engaged in a tender con-sation with her tender sweetheart, asks you to bringiass of water from an adjoining room, you can startthe errand, but you need not return. You will not bejsed, that’s certain—we’ve seen it tried. Don’t forget!i, little boys.Lord Campbell tells of a judge who wound up a scn-tce of death, at Stafford, for the uttering of a forgedj'-pound note, in this horribly facetious manner :—‘ Andrust that, through the merits and mediation of ourssed Eedeemor, you may there experience that mercyjich a due regard to the credit of the paper currencythe country forbids you to hope for here.’Illustrated with cuts,' said a young urchin, as he drewjack-knife across the leaves of his spelling-book.Which travels fastest, heat or cold ? Heat does ; bc-juse you can catch cold.Why is an infant like a diamond ? Because it is alittle thing.correspondent asks, ‘ Whom do the papers mean byir Foreign Relations ?’ Why, our Cousins-German,course.Dr. Franklin, talking of a friend of his who had beenManchester dealer, said, 1 That he never sold a piecotape narrower than his own mind.’There is a man at Gravesend so mean, that he wishesis landlord to reduce the price of his board, because heas had two of his teeth extracted.A fop, just returned to England from a continentalmr, was asked how he liked the ruins of Pompeii. 1 Notery well,’ was the reply ; ‘ they are so dreadfully out of:pair!’During a consultation of physicians on the characterf a Bacchanalian patient, how to cure his fever, andbate his thirst, the sick man observed, ‘ Gentlemen, ifou will cure the fever, I will take half the trouble oil’■our hands, and abate the thirst myself.’A glass of soda wafer was offered the other day tIrishman, who rejected it with the greatest indignan* Do you think I am a salamander,’ said he, ‘ to ^water boiling hot ?’By Mac and O, you’ll always knowTrue Irishmen, they say;For if they lack both O and Mac,No Irishmen are they.Law and logic are like a piece of india-rubber, ea [pulled into any shape.An amorous swain told the story of his heart’stions by a strange emblem—he presented his lady-1with a microscope. Fatal gift! she viewed his impfections through it, and rejected him.An authoress speaks of boys of eighteen or twentyhaving arrived at an ‘ age of detestability.’In a certain benighted part of the country may be se;on the outside of a humble cottage, the following inscrtion in large gilt letters:—‘ A Seminary for Young Ladies'This was, perhaps, too abstruse for the villagers, as iimediately underneath there is added, in rude characte‘ Notey Beny—Allso, a Gals Skool.'An Irishman some time ago was committed to tHouse of Correction for a misdemeanour, and scnteuctto work on the tread-wheel for the space of a montHe observed, at the expiration of his task,—‘ Whatgrate dale of fatigue and botheration it would have sav*iis poor crathers, if they had but invinted it to go Jstheeme, like all other water-mills; for burn me if 1 hanot been afther going up stairs for this four weeks, bcould not reach the chamber-door at all, at all.’A Dutch householder, bragging of his worldly geawrites:—I’ve got a pig cat and I’ve got a pig tog,I’ve got a pig calf and I’ve got a pig hog,I’ve got a pig baby so pig and so tall,And I’ve got a pig vife dat’s pigger as all.‘ Class in spelling, come up and recite.’ ‘ Yeth, thin‘ John, spell effects.’ ‘F-X.’ ‘Right. Next, spell seedy1 C-D.’ ‘ Right again.’i Why are young ladies like arrows ? Because they aretill in a quiver when the beaus come.'j Why is a talkative young man like a young pig ? Be¬cause, if he lives, he is very likely to become a great bore.j An Irishman being informed that it was the intention•>f the government to call out the militia, made the fol¬lowing reply:—1 I’m hanged if I care when I’m drawn orwhere I’m quartered.’1 Why is a good sermon like a kiss ? Do you give it up ?Because it only requires two heads and an application !' I do declare, Sal, you look pretty enough to eat.<1‘ Well, Solomon, ain’t I eating as fast as I can ?’ repliedSal, with her mouth full.* Barber, I think this towel has been in use longenough ‘It has been used more than six weeks, andno one has ever found fault with it before.’A romantic youth promenading in a fashionable street: of New York, picked up a thimble. He stood awhile,meditating upon the probable beauty of the owner, whenuhe pressed it to his lips, saying, ‘Oh that it were thei fair cheek of the wearer !’ Just as he had finished, ai stout elderly n egress looked out of an upper window, andsaid, * Massa, list please to bring dat finable of mine in det entry—1 jist drapt it.’Two Irishmen meeting one day, one of them inquiredi of the other if he had seen his friend Pat Murphy lately:i 1 For,’ said he, ‘ he has grown so thin that you would notknow him at all. You are thin, and I am thin, but, bythe powers, he is thinner than both of us put together.’* Sambo, whar you get dat watch you wear to meetin’> lass Sunday V ‘ How you know hab watch V ‘ Bekasei 1 seed de chain hang out de pocket in front.’ ‘ Go ’w ay,nigger !' ’Spose you see halter round my neck, you tink> dar is horse inside ob me ?’A person in want of an occupation, and advertising forthe same in the Times, informs the world, that ‘ The ad¬vertiser being highly respectable, no retail business willsuit.’ This gentleman seems to be somewhat less conse¬quential logically than he is personally. His address isgiven as K.—Should it not have been S.N.O.B.-?8‘ Colonel W is a fine-looking man, isn’t he V sai<-a friend the other day. ‘ Yes,’ replied another ; ‘ I wa-taken for him once.’ ‘ You ! why you’re as ugly as sin.i‘ I don’t care for that, 1 was taken for him once—I endorsed his note, and 1 was taken for him by the sheriff.’'A witness in an Irish Court of Justice stated that hdwas suddenly roused from his slumbers by a blow on hishead. ‘ And how did you find yourself ?’ asked the coun-iseL 1 Fast asleep,’ replied the witness.‘ If you are a cingle man, Pik, taik my advice, and'stay so ; or, if you will marry—if you mus have a wyf—never permit yourself to be overcum by a widder ? Thems;the sentiments of one who has tried and noes.’‘ It is a curious fact,’ says the Medical Times, ‘ that the ■most carnivorous quadrupeds are more averse to devour- fing women than men.’ Yet women are described as the 1tender sex.A witty rogue, brought before a Parisian tribunal fora drunken riot, on one occasion, assured the bench that lihe was not a drunkard, but in his childhood he wasbitten by a mad dog, and he had ever since a horror of twater.11 don’t like to play forfeits,’ said Jemima, ‘ and have tall the fellows kissing me—it makes me common pro- ■perty.’ ‘ Nothing is common which is dear,’ meeklyresponded Bemus.The local American papers state that a teacher inVirginia, giving lessons in geography, asked a boy,‘ What state do you live in ?’ The urchin hit the factwhen he bawled out, ‘ A state of sin and misery.’Dr. Wing, being asked where a young lady’s waistbegan, replied, ‘ At the altar. The moment they haveyou trapped, they come down on your pocket-book like ahawk upon a May bug. After they are married theyare all waste.' What a libellous fellow !The principal of an academy, in his advertisement,mentioned his female assistant, and the 1 reputation forteaching which she bears; ’ but the printer—careless fel¬low—left out the 1 which,’ so the advertisement wentforth commending the lady’s reputation for ‘teachingshe bears /’0Mrs. Partington came into the room in a state of greatexcitement. ‘ Do you know,’ said she, ‘ they have formedanother of those coeditions ? Well, 1 declare it is toobad. The price of coals will be up to I don’t know what.’‘ Bill, you young scamp, if you had your due, you’d geta good whipping.’ 11 know it, daddy, but bills are notalways paid when due.' The agonised father trembled lesthis hopeful son should be suddenly snatched from him.A young man being cured of a martial predilectionby being present in a skirmish, it was said of him thathe had an itch, for military distinction, but the smell ofsulphur cured it.A man by the name of Philo, who was married to alady named Sophy, observed, that uniting his name withthe lady’s, put him in possession of philosophy.A captain of a vessel loading coals, went into a mer¬chant’s counting-house, and requested the loan of a rake.The merchant, looking towards his clerks, replied—‘ Ihave a number of them, but none, I believe, wish to behauled over the coals.’An old farmer, whose son had died lately, was visitedby a neighbour, who began to condole with him on hisloss. 1 My loss !’ exclaimed the father, ‘ no such thing—his own loss—he was of age.’A vagrant called at a house on a Sunday, and beggedfor some cider. The lady refused to give him any, andhe reminded her of the oft-quoted remark, that she‘might entertain an angel unawares.’ 1 Yes,’said she,1 but angels don’t go about drinking cider on Sundays.’Time to me this truth has taught,’Tis a truth that’s worth revealing—More offend for want of thoughtThau from any want of feeling.If advice we would convey,There’s a time we should convey it;If we’ve but a word to say,There’s a time in which to say it.A Yankee editor remarked, in a polemical article, thatthough he would not call his opponent a liar, he mustsay, that if the gentleman had intended to state what wasutterly false, he had been remarkably successful in hisattempt.10A celebrated divine, who had prided himself upon hisioriginality, and who would reject his best thought if heimagined it was traceable to any previous author, wasstartled one day by a friend coolly telling him that everyword of his favourite discourse was stolen from a bookhe had at home. The astonished writer, staggered byhis friend’s earnestness, begged for a sight of tins volume.He was, however, released from his misery by the othersmilingly announcing the work in question to be ‘ John¬son’s Dictionary,’ where, continued his tormentor, ‘ Iundertake to find every word of your discourse.’After listening to Bushfield Ferrand’s fervid appeal atNew Malton, a shrewd Yorkshire farmer was asked what,he thought of the speech ? His reply was, simply, ‘Why,I don’t know, but I think six hours’ rain would hae doneus a deal mair good !’An American, formerly master ofa vessel, who recentlyreturned from California, where he has been operatingfor about a couple of years, was thus accosted :—1 Well,Captain H., I suppose you have made enough this tripto stay at home, and lay off the rest of your days ?’—‘Well, yes, I have made something.’ Pursuing his inter¬rogations still further—‘Well, captain, how much of thestuff did you bring home V—‘ Well, sir, about as much asa good donkey could haul down-hill upon ice.’During the late session at N , a man was broughtup by a farmer, and accused of stealing some ducks. The <farmer said, he should know them anywhere, and wenton to describe their peculiarity. ‘ Why,’ said the counselfor the prisoner, ‘they can’t be such a very rare breed—I have some like them in my yard.’ ‘ That’s very likely,sir,’ said the farmer: ‘ these are not the only ducks of thesort I have had stolen lately.’There is one disease that a miser is pretty sure neverto die of—and that is, ‘ enlargement of the heart.’Medicine has killed as many people as war. Powderand pills are as fatal as powder and ball. Bo careful,therefore, how you allow people to shoot them into you.‘ Och, an’ what’s yer honor agoin’ to give me, seein’ asit’s myself that saved yer honor’s house from turnin’ toashes intirely?’ ‘How, so, Pat?’—‘An sure, when iteotched afire, wasn’t I the second one that hollered firefirst ?’11‘ Comp, Doctor,’ said a sinner to a clerical saint, ‘ I canr'ive you a treat—a bottle of claret forty years old.’ Thedoctor was in raptures, and eagerly accepted the invita->tion ; when, to his dismay, the expected quart provedonly to be a pint bottle. ‘ Waes me,’ said he, taking ituj) in his hand, ‘ but it’s unco wee of its age !’When Nelson said to his men at Trafalgar, ‘ Englandexpects every man to do his duty,’ three Scotchmen whowere standing at their guns exclaimed, ‘ He never men¬tioned poor Scotia;’ but one of them, suddenlyrecollectinghimself, rejoined, ‘ His Lordship is just coaxing theEnglish ; he knows Sandy will do jus work when wanted,without coaxing.5A short time since, an invalid sent for a physician; and,after detaining him for some time with a description ofhis pains, said, 1 Now, doctor, you have humbugged melong enough with your good-for-nothing pills and worth¬less syrups they don’t touch the real difficulty. I wishyou would strike the cause of my ailment, if it is in yourpower to reach it.’ ‘ It shall be done,’ said the doctor, atthe same time lifting his cane, and demolishing a decanterof spirits that stood upon the sideboard.A man with one eye laid a wager with another man,that he (the one-eyed person) saw more than the other.The wager was accepted. ‘ You have lost,’ says thefirst; ‘ 1 can see the two eyes in your face, and you cansee only one in mine.’An old clergyman was in the habit, as soon as ho gotinto the pulpit, of placing his sermon in a crevice underthe cushion, where he left it during the singing of theaccustomed psalm. One Sunday he pushed the sermon-book too far into the crevice, and lost it. When the psalm■was concluded, he called the clerk to bring him a Bible.The clerk, somewhat astonished at this unusual request,brought him a Bible as he was desired. The clergymanopened it, and thus addressed his congregation—‘ Mybrethren, 1 have LOST my SEUMON ; but Fwill read you achapter in Job worth ten of it.’Mrs. Wagner having presented her husband with adaughter, he ‘ put it in the Times,' which was all very■well; but we are not satisfied that he was called upon toadd, ‘her eleventh child,’ unless he intended it as awarning to bachelors.12An old gentleman of eighty years having taken to th£ialtar a young damsel of sixteen, the clergyman said tcjhim, ‘ The font is at the other end of the church.’ ‘ Whatido I want of the font ?’ inquired the old gentleman. 1 ]'beg your pardon,’ said the clerical wit, ‘ I thought yquj'had brought this child to be christened.’In a club, the other day, sat two gentlemen, one ofwhom has attained fame upon canvas, the other uponpaper. He of the pencil was remarkably complimentaryto him of the pen—so much so indeed, that the latter at:length, with a good-natured laugh, exclaimed, ‘ Why,my good fellow, you really show the versatility of yourgenius in the most striking light: you prove that youcan paint not only in oil, but—in butter !’Horne Tooke, being asked by George III. whether heplayed at cards, replied, 11 cannot, your majesty, tell aking from a knave.’A sign in front of a shop in a village near Exeter, hasthe following :—‘ Kakes and bear, sold her.’ An additionin width has been added, to inform the public, that ‘ Imake my sign a little vider, to let the people know thatI sell sider.’A fire-eating Irishman, covered with wounds receivedin duels, challenged a barrister, who gratified him by anacceptance. The duellist, unable to stand without sup¬port, requested that he might have a prop. ‘ Suppose,’said he, ‘ I lean against this milestone ?’ ‘ With plea¬sure,’ replied the lawyer, ‘ *>n condition that I may leanagainst the next.’ The challenger burst into a roar oflaughter at the joke, and swore he would not fight sogood-humoured a gentleman.A Glasgow youth walking with his sweetheart alongQueen-street of that city, stopped at the door of a pastrycook’s shop, and addressing his lady-love, said, ‘ Now,my dear, what will you take V She, expecting to betreated to some of the good things of the shop, modestlyreplied, ‘ I will take anything you like.’ ‘ Then,’ sayshe, ‘ we will take a walk,’ and marched past the shop.A gentleman one day observed to Henry Erskine, whowas a great punster, that punning was the knuest of wit.‘ It is so,’ answered Erskine, 1 ana therefore the founda¬tion of all wit.’13Maximilian being requested to grant an individual apatent of nobility for a certain sum—‘ I can make youricher, saId Maximilian, ‘ but none can ennoble youLutyour own virtue. }The late Lord Jeffrey, when pleading one day beforetebS Sr<wlJUdge st°PPcdhi»b and asked himin bioad Scotch, Whaur were ye educat, Mr. Jefti-ey ?’Ox ord, my lord. 1 Then I doubt ye maun gang backthere agin, for we can mak nocht o’ ye here.’ Onanother occasion, the advocate, in stating his case beforethe same judge, happened to speak of an itinerant vio-limst. D ye mean a blm’ fiddler ?’ asked Lord Newton.advocate^ S° Ca ed’ my lord’’ auswered the spiritedT1mTlyiki,nd of mistakes we are in favour of; is whenan old bachelor gets married. Such miss-stakes arcpopular among the ladies.nner7d^ra**fiel<Ua Scotch judge) once said to an elo¬quent culprit at the bar, ‘You’re a vera clever chiel,mon; but 1 m thinking ye wad be nane the warn- o’ anangin.M iiy should Joseph Ady be a leading man in the edu¬cation movement ?-Because he has all his life had adecided passion for the universal diffusion of letters.We notice the marriage of Mr. Day to Miss Field,which presents this singular anomaly, that although hewon the Field, she gained the Day. gSome things come by odd names. The most uncom¬mon quality in nature is called ‘ common sense a paperhalf a mile long is a ‘brief;’ and a melancholy ditty,devoid ot sense or meaning, is a ‘ glee.’ Jihe following bull appears in the American Presi-dents message recentJy deliveredWe are at peacewith au the world, and we seek to maintain our cherishedrelations with the rest of mankind.’When James Beresford, author of ‘ The Miseries ofHuman Life, was at the Charterhouse School, he was aremarkably gay and noisy fellow ; and ono day, havingplayed truant to attend a concert, the school (saysSouthey) was so quiet without him, that his absence wasat once detected, and brought upon him a flogging.14A gentleman while skating fell into the water, andran imminent risk of his life. A man with some diffi¬culty pulled him out. The gentleman rewarded hispreserver with a sixpence. The bystanders expressedsome surprise respecting the insufficiency of the sum ;but the man coolly observed, that the gentleman knewbest what his own life was worth, and walked off.The following anecdote is told in illustration of theScotch veneration for the Sabbath :—A geologist, whilein the country, and having his pocket hammer with him,took it out and was chipping the rock by the wayside forexamination. His proceedings did not escape the quickeye and ready tongue of an old Scotch woman. ‘ Whatare you doing there, man ?’ ‘ Don’t you see ? I’mbreaking a stone.’ 1 Y’aro doing mail' than that; y’arebreaking the Sabbath.’An old bachelor, in counselling a young friend, cau¬tioned him in this wise :—‘ Ne’er take a wife till thouhast a house (and a fire) to put her in.’A young gentleman was recently asked to ‘take some¬thing.’ He said he was not dry, but he would take thesixpence, which he accordingly' pocketed and marchedoff.It is considered a great compliment in the east, to sayto a young girl, 1 Your skin is as clear and beautiful asthe fresh peel of an onion just drawn out from betweenits flakes!’A Bremen journal contains the following advertise¬ment:—‘A young gentleman, on the point of gettingmarried, is desirous of meeting a man of experience whowill dissuade him from such a step. Address,’ &c.It is not always a mark of kindness to possess an opencountenance. An alligator is a deceitful creature, andyet he presents an open countenance when in the veryact of talcing you in.When Prince Gonzago was in England, he dined incompany with Dr. Johnson, and thinking it was a politething to drink the doctor’s health with some proof thathe had read his works, called out from the top of thetable to the bottom—that table filled with company—‘At your good health, Mr. Vagabond!’ instead of Mr.liam'bler!15‘I say, Henry Charles, you have been to Hong-Kbng,haven’t you?’—‘Yes.’ ‘Well, can you speak China ?’‘ iT-e-s, a little: that is, I speak broken china.'‘I shall soon die, Cuffy—I must soon set out upon along journey.’ ‘ Berry well (replied Cufly), I guess habgood going, because it’s all the way down hill.’Mr. Hunt, in a lecture on Common Law, has remarked,1 That a lady, when she married, lost her personal iden¬tity—her distinctive character—and was like a dewdropswallowed by a sunbeam.’To such an extent is veneration for the fair sex earnedin San Francisco, that a party of Oregonians stopped tohave a dance round an old cast-off bonnet.‘Will the galvanic rings cure depression?’ asked alady. ‘ What has caused the complaint, ma’am V askedthe doctor, ‘ The loss of my husband,’ mournfully repliedthe lady. ‘ Then you had better get a ivedding ring,’answered the doctor.A gentleman sat down to write a deed, and began with‘ Know all women by these presents.’ ‘ You are wrong,’said a bystander, ‘ it ought to be “know all men,”’ ‘Verywell,’ answered the other, ‘ if all women know it, all menwill, of course.’Conductor (very loud).—‘Goon, Bill; here’s that uglyold cove wot always kicks up such a row, and makes his-self so disagreeable, iust got inDriver,—‘ Oh, as ne ? Hi’ve a deuced good mind topitch im hover, hand break his stupid old ’ed !’What news to-day ?’ said a merchant to his friendlately. ‘What news?’ responded the other, ‘nothing,only times are growing better ; people are getting ontheir legs again.’ ‘ On their legs !’ said the first. ‘ Idon’t see how you can make that out.’ ‘ Why, yes,’ re¬plied the other, ‘ folks that used to ride are obliged towalk now ; is not that getting on their legs again ?’■ ‘ What are you going to give me for a Christmas pre¬sent ?’ asked a merry damsel of a poor but good youngman, who meekly replied, that he had nothing to offerbut Ins humble self. ‘ The smallest favours gratefullyreceived,’ was the cheerful response.16A gent, was asked what kind of ‘gal ’ he preferred forhis wife. ‘ One,’ he said, ‘ that wasn’t prodi-gal, but fru¬gal—a true-gal, and suited to his conju-gal taste.’Buggins {at breakfast table).—‘ Mary Anne, bring me aegg.’'Finished Daughter.—1 An egg, if you please, father; anegg, not a egg—pray speak correctly.’Buggins.—‘A negg is it, my dear—a negg, eh? Well,Mary'Anne, instead of one, you may bring two neggs!’An Irishman’s Description of making a Cannon.—Take a long hole and pour brass round it.The Dublin Commercial Journal has the following:“ One of the habitues of the theatre the other evening,talking of female authors, said that, though they havetact, grace, and finesse, they have no creative genius, andseldom produce any perfect work. ‘ It is easy to see,’ saidMrs. L., the actress, ‘that it was a woman who gave youbirth.’ ”A gentleman dining at a fashionable hotel, whose ser¬vants were ‘few and far between,’ despatched a lad amongthem for a cut of beef. After a long time the lad returned,and placing it before the faint and hungry gentleman,was asked, 1 Are you the lad who took away my platefor this beef ?’—‘ Yes, sir.’—‘ Bless me,’ resumed thehungry wit, ‘ how you have grown !’‘ Father,’ said a juvenile apothecary, to his learned‘dad,’ ‘ what’s the reason they don’t use pestles in battle?’1 Pestles, my son, what should they do with pestles inbattle?’ ‘Why, the Wellington dispatches say themortars did great execution, and I can’t see how, withoutpestles ?’ ‘ Pound away, my son, and don’t puzzle mewith your questions. Mortars and pestles do a great dealof damage, without being used on the field of battle.’A clergyman, coming to a poor woman’s cabin, amongstother questions asked her how many commandmentsthere were ? ‘ Truly, sir,’ said she, ‘ I cannot tell.’—‘ Why,ten,’ said he.—‘A fine company,’ replied she, ‘ God blessyou and them together.’—‘ Well, but neighbour,’ says he,‘ do you keep these commandments ?’—‘ Ah, the Lord inheaven bless you, sir, I am a poor woman, and canhardly keep myself; so how- can I bear the charge ofkeeping so many commandments ?’17The following notice appeared on the west end of achurch iii Watling Street: ‘Any person sticking billsagainst this church, will be prosecuted according to law,OK AST OTHER NUISANCE.’A horse-dealer, selling a nag, frequently observed, withmuch earnestness, that he was an honest horse. After theEurchase, the gentleman asked him what he meant by anonest horse. ‘ Why, I’ll tell you,’ replied the Jockey,n henever I rode him, he always threatened to throwniG ; and hang mo if ho ever deceived me.’An Englishman and a Welshman disputing in whosecountry was the best living, the Welshman said, 1 Thereis such noble housekeeping in Wales, that I have knownabout a dozen cooks employed at one wedding dinner.’‘ Ah, answered the Englishman, ‘ that was because everyman toasted his own cheese.’An Irishman having accidentally broken a pane ofglass m a window, was making the best of his way out ofBight; but, unfortunately for Pat, the proprietor stole amarch on him ; and having seized him by the collar, ex¬claimed, 1 You broke my window, fellow, did you not ?’‘ To be sure I did,’ said Fat; ‘and didn’t you see me run¬ning home for money to pay for it ?’th^Kationai Debt'610 Pay y°U 0ff’' aS J°hn Bul1 Sa'd t0‘ I wish I could get things into the right train,’ as theunprotected female said to herself, when she saw herluggage going away from her in all directions.Why is a hen walking, like a conspiracy ?—Becauseit s a foul proceeding.What is the difference between a chicken with a wingand one without a wing?—There is a difference of apinion (opinion).We may set it down as an axiom, that young ladies:annot know everybody’s name, when it is utterly im¬possible for them to know what their own may be atwelvemonth hence!A 1 ankeo student being asked how many genderssnere were, said ‘three—masculine, feminine, and neutral*’ind defined them as follows:—1 Masculine, men; feminine,>’/omcn ; and neutral, old bachelors.’IS‘ Shon,’ said a Dutchman, ‘ you may say what youplease pout pad neighbours ; I have had to vorst neigh¬bours as never was. Mine pigs and mine hens come homewit dere ears split, and todder day two of them come homemissing.’Soon after Dr. Johnson’s return from Scotland toLondon, a Scottish lady, at whose house he was, as acompliment ordered some hotch-potch for his dinner.After the Doctor had tasted it, she asked him if itwas good ? To which he implied, ‘ Very good for hogs !’‘Then pray,’ said the lady, ‘allow me to help you'to a,little more of it.’Au Irish doctor advertises, that the deaf may hear ofhim at a house in Lilfey Street, where his blind patientsmay see him from 10 till 3.‘ Pat,’ said a gent, to his servant, ‘what’s all that noisein the street ?’ ‘ Oh, nothing, sir; they’re only forcing aman to turn volunteer.’When you are in at a neighbour’s in the evening, anda man asks his wife how long before she is going to bed,you may safely conclude that you had better leave.The following advertisement appeared lately in anIrish newspaper: ‘ This is to notify Patrick O’Flaherty,.who lately left his lodgings, that if he does not returnsoon, and pay for the same, he shall be advertised.’Some days ago, a pretty, bright little juvenile friend,some five years of age, named Rosa, was teased a gooddeal by a gentleman who visits the family; he finallywound up by saying: ‘Rosa, I don’t love you.’ ‘Ah, butyou’ve got to love me,’ said the child. ‘ How so ?’ asked.her tormentor. ‘ Why,’ said Rosa, ‘ the Bible says youmust love them that hate you, and I am sure I hate you!’At an infant-school examination a few days ago, theexaminer asked, ‘ What fish eat the little ones ?’ ‘ Thobig ’uns,’ shouted a little urchin.‘Don’t you understand me, Jim ?’ thundered the oldman. ‘Why, you must be quite a fool.’ ‘True, I amvery near one,’ meekly replied Jim.A constant frequenter of city feasts having grownenormously fat, it was proposed to write on his back,Widened at the expense of the Corporation,’10‘ Well, Alick, how’s your brother Ike getting alongthese times ?’ 4 Oh, first rate—got a good, start in theworld ; married a widow with nine children.’A little girl inquired of her friend, who had passed hereighth year, ‘ What causes the rain ?’ to which the fol¬lowing beautiful reply was given: 1 The drops of rain arethe tears shed by angels over the sins of the world.’A gentleman, inquiring of a naval officer why sailorsgenerally take off their 'shirts when going into action,was answered, ‘ that they may not have any check tofightin’.’An American editor states that a friend of his carrieshis sense of honour so far, as to spend all his time in per¬fect idleness, because he does not even like to taJceadvantage of time.A poor Irishman offered an old saucepan for sale. Hischildren gathered around him, and inquired why heparted with it. 1 Ah, my honeys,’ answered ho, ‘ I wouldnot be afther parting with it, but for a little money tobuy something to put in it.’A gentleman calling for some beer at another gentle¬man’s table, finding it very bad, gave it to the servantagain without drinking. ‘ What!’ said the master of thehouse, ‘ don’t you like the beer ?’ ‘ It is not to be foundfault with,’ answered the other, ‘ for we should neverspeak ill of the dead.'At an excellent hotel, not a hundred miles from Liver¬pool, they were one day short of a waiter, when a newly-arrived Hibernian was hastily made to supply tire placeof a more expert hand. 1 Now, Barney,’ said mine host,1 mind you serve every man with soup, anyhow.’ ‘ Be-dad, I’ll do that same,’ said the alert Barney. Soup cameon the start, and Barney, after helping all but one guest,came upon the last one. 1 Soup, sir ?’ said Barney. ‘ Nosoup for me,’ said the gent. ‘But you must have it,’said Barney; ‘it is the rules of the house.’ ‘ D—n thehouse,’ exclaimed the guest, highly exasperated ; ‘ whenI don’t want soup I won’t eat it—got along with you.’‘ Well,’ said Barney, with solemnity, ‘ all I can say is jistthis—it’s the regulations of the house, and the divi’l adrop else ye’ll get till ye finish the soup!’ The travellerthen gave in, and the soup was gobbled.20Lately in the Court of Exchequer, a builder’s scaf-folder described a foreman as 1 a man who walks aboutand does nothing, and orders everybody else to work.’Some time ago, a provision merchant’s shop in Leithhad on its signboard, ‘ Butter sold here for smearingsheep and bakers.’‘ Well, John,’ said a doctor to a lad, whose mother hehad been attending during her illness, ‘ how is yourmother ?’ ‘ She’s dead, I thank you, sir,’ was the reply.A gentleman well acquainted with a certain alderman,being asked what sort of a Lord Mayor he thought hewould make, answered, ‘ An unaccountable one.’Horace Walpole tells a story of a Lord Mayor of Lon¬don in his time, who, having heard that a friend had thesmall-pox twice, and died of it, asked if he died the firsttime or the second.A servant girl said the other day, that she gave buttwelve pence for the cap she had on her head ; a gentle¬man observed, 1 Then you have a crown piece for a shil¬ling.'* A steam-boat (Jonathan says) has got a saw-mill onone side, and a grist-mill on t’other, and a blacksmith’sshop in the middle, and down cellar there’s a tarnationgreat pot boiling all the time.’Why is twice eleven like twice ten ? Because twiceeleven is twenty-two, and twice ten is twenty too.A letter passed through the Shields Post-office a shorttime ago, ' For Betsy Itobinson, a Scotch Woman withOne Eye, Carey Bank, North Shields.’A woman offering to sign a deed, the judge asked herwhether her husband compelled her to sign. ‘ He com¬pel me!’ said the lady, ‘ no, nor twenty like him.’‘ How is your son to-day ?’ asked a friend of a stock-brother. ‘ Very bad,’ replied the old gentleman, strivingto compose his agitated features: ‘ Very bad, indeed ! Iwould not give ten percent, for his chance of life.’‘ You had better ask for manners than money,’ said afinely-dressed gentleman to a beggar boy who had askedfor alms. ‘ I asked for what I thought you had the mostof,’ was the boy’s reply,21Pat. Mui'phy, residing in Raymond Stfeet, was latelyfined twenty shillings and costs, for keeping six full-: grown pigs in his front parlour !‘I wonder how they make lucifer matches?’ said ayoung lady to her husband, with whom she was alwaysquarrelling. ‘ The process is very simple—I once madeione,’ he answered. ‘ How did you manage it V—‘ Byleading you to church.’We are authorised to say that Mr. John Macdonald ofIMansfield Wood House, who attained his hundredth yearlast November, will run any man in England, his ownweight and age, for any sum. N.B.—No hurdles.A gentleman passing through one of the public officeswas affronted by some clerks, and was advised to com-Iplain to the principal, which he did thus : “ 1 have beenlabused here by some of the rascals in this place, and havesome to acquaint you of it, as I understand you are theprincipal.’A young lady, a native of Sydney, being asked if shelihould like to go to Britain, answered that she shouldHike to see it, but not to live in it. On being pressed fortier reason, she replied, ‘ That from the large number ofpad people sent out from thence, it must surely be a verywicked place to live in ! ’Did our readers ever remark that the gentlemen whocarry round the plate, and who are always on a coldscent after a penny, are not themselves very liberal iniheir contributions? ‘ Why don’t you putin something?’asked a contributor, of one of these Sunday sub-treasurers,Im one occasion. ‘ That’s my business,’ was the reply :what I give is nothing to nobody !'‘ What are you writing there, my boy ? ’ asked a fondparent the other day of his hopeful son and heir, a shaver'>f ten years.—‘ My compesition, thir.’ ‘ What is the sub-iect?’—‘International law, thir,’ replied the youthfulGrotius ; ‘but really I shall be unable to contnentrate; ny ideas, and give them a logical relation, if I amnonthantly interrupted in thith manner by irrelevantinquiries.’i A widow said once to her daughter, ‘ When you are ofi;ny age, you will be dreaming of a husband.’ 4 Yes,linamma,’ replied the thoughtless little hussy, 'for a se¬cond time.22‘ What arc you about, my dear ? ’ said his grandmotherto a little boy who was sliding along the room, and castingfurtive glances at a gentleman who was paying a visit‘1 am trying, grandmamma, to steal papa’s hat out of theroom, without letting that one see it,’ said he, pointingto the gentleman, ‘ for papa wants him to think that heis out.’O’Connell, in one of his speeches in Conciliation Halltold his followers, that if measures injurious to Irelandwere brought into Parliament, he would go over to Eng¬land, and ‘ die on the floor of the House of Commons iropposition to them;’ and when became back he would say‘ Are you for Repeal now ?’A few days since, a person threw the head of a gooseon to the stage of the Belleville Theatre. Cotru advan-.cing to the front, said, ‘ Gentlemen, if any one amongstyou has lost his head, do not be uneasy, for I will restoreit on the conclusion of the performance.’A Liverpool furrier informs those ladies ‘ who wish t(have a really genuine article,’ that he will be happy tfmake them muffs, boas, &c., of ‘ theih own skins !’A provincial contemporary is ungallant enough to sajithat the ladies—Heaven bless ’em !—are never in timt,except on the wedding-day, and then they wait up alinight to prevent being too late in the morning.An advertisement of cheap shoes and fancy articles,inserted in a certain newspaper, has the following notc>bene:—‘N.B. Ladies wishing those cheap shoes will dcwell to call soon, as they will not last long.'A retired son of St. Crispin, who had amassed con¬siderable wealth, used to put the letters ER.S. and C.after his name. He translated them thus:—‘ First Rate(Shoemaker and Cobbler.’‘ What are you engaged in f said the head printer oia newspaper establishment to ono of the compositors.‘ In an elopement.’ ‘ Stop,’ said his interrogator, ‘ I wantyou to share in a murder.’‘Make way here,’ said a member of a republicandeputation, ‘ we are the representatives of the people.’‘ Make way yourself,’ shouted a sturdy fellow from the'throng, ‘ we are the people themselves 1’23The following advertisement was recently inserted ina New York paper:—‘Wanted—An experienced nurseto take charge of a young child, between 30 and 35 yearsold, of unexceptionable character and good reference.None need apply who cannot produce the best testi¬monials.’A simple Highland girl, on her way home for thenorth, called, as she passed by Crieff, upon an old masterwith whom she had formerly served. Being kindly in¬vited by him to share in the family dinner, and the usualceremony of asking a blessing having been gone through,the poor girl, anxious to compliment, as she conceived,her ancient host, exclaimed, ‘ Ah, master, ye maun haoa grand memory, for that’s the grace ye had when I waswi’ you seven years ago.’A countryman busy sowing his ground, two smart fel¬lows riding that way, one of them called to him with aninsolent air, ‘Well, honest fellow,’ said he, ‘’tis yourbusiness to sow, but we reap the fruits of your labour.’To which the countryman replied, ‘ ’Tis very like youmay, for I am sowing hemp.’A wit being asked what the word genius meant, re¬plied, ‘ If you had it in you, you would not ask the ques¬tion; but as you have not, you will never know what itmeans.’A person, who was famous for arriving just at dinner¬time, upon going to a friend’s (where he was a frequentvisitor), was asked by a lady of the house if he would doas they did. On his replying he should be happy to havethe pleasure, she replied, ‘ Dine at home, then.’ He, ofcourse, had received his quietus for some time, at least.Two gentlemen, a few days since, took a boat at Blaek-friar’s-bridgo to go to the Tower. One of them askedthe other who sat beside him, if ho could tell him whatcountryman the waterman was. He replied he couldnot. ‘ Then,’ said his friend, 11 can ; he is a Ro-man.'A Cockney being told the above, said ‘the pun waswherry good.’During a late crowded night at Covent Garden The¬atre, a pretty woman, on whom the heat acted as apowerful sudorific, attracted general attention. A gen¬tleman, after viewing her for a few minutes, exclaimed,‘ A charming painting in oil.'24The inhabitants of Mount Street, Southampton, werealarmed one morning at three o’clock by a drunken fel¬low crying, ‘Fire! Fire!' ‘Where, for God’s sake, isit?’ exclaimed a hundred voices at once. ‘ That’s exactlywhat I want to know,’ replied the fellow, ‘for my pipe’sgone out.’For the gout, says one, toast and water; for bile, exer¬cise ; for corns, easy shoes; for rheumatism, new flanneland patience; for toothache, pluck it out.A venerable Scotch minister used to say to any of hisflock who were labouring under alfliction, ‘ Time is short,and if your cross is heavy, you have not far to carry it.’La Motto, who had lost his eyesight, being one day ina crowd, accidently trod upon the foot of a young man,who instantly struck him on the face. ‘ Sir,’ said LaMotte, ‘ you will bo sorry for what you have done, when1 tell you that I am blind.’Coward is a feudal expression, implying cow-herd, forwhich employment a man void of courage was deemedonly fit for.Mr. Wilmot, an infidel, when dying, laid his tremblingemaciated hand upon the sacred volume, and exclaimedsolemnly, and with unwonted energy, ‘ The only objec¬tion against this book, is—a bad life.’Franklin, one of the greatest philosophers and states¬men of America, was once a printer’s boy. Simpson,the Scotch mathematician, and author of many learnedworks, was at first a poor weaver. Herschel, one of themost eminent astronomers, rose from the low station of afiter boy in the army. These examples show us thehappy effects of assiduity and perseverance.There are boys who think themselves men, and w hogo to barbers’ shops to be, as they say, 1 bared.’ Weheard of a juvenile who went to be scraped, and the bar¬ber having adjusted the cloth, and soaped his smoothskin, left him and went lounging about his door. Assoon as the young ‘ gent.’ saw him sauntering, he impa¬tiently screamed out, ‘Well, what are you leaving meall this time here for ?’ The witty barber replied, ‘ I’mwaiting until your beard grows !’To find ‘ Me an’ Time.—Learn of Molly the maid thetime of dinner, and always drop in at the exact moment,