55 5.WOIDERFIL PROPHECIESorDONALD CARGILL,Who was executed at the Crossof Edinburgh, on the 23d July, 1680.For his adherence to the Covenantand Work ofREFORM ATI OiS.DUMFRIES:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.RBKTHE LIFEOFMR BOXALD CARCILL.1.Ir Cargill, seems to have been born some timeibout the year )6l0. He was eldest son of a mostespected family in the parish of Rattray. After he;ad been some time in the schools of Aberdeen, hevent to St. Andrew’s, where having perfected hisourse of philosophy, his father pressed upon himnuen to study divinity, in order for the ministry;'“t he thought the work was to great for his weakboulders, and requested to command him to anythey employment he pleased. But his father stillontinuing to urge him, he resolved to set apart a dayf private fasting, to seek the Lord’s mind therein,md after much wrestlings with the Lord by prayer,le third chapter of Ezekial, and chiefly these wordsi the first verse. •• Son of man, eat this roll andp speak unto the house of Israel,” made a strongp pres si on on his mind, so that he durst no longer;fuse his father’s desire, but dedicated himselfholly unto that office.After this, he got a call to the Barony Church ofdasgow. It was so ordered by Divine providence,4-that the very first text that the presbytery orderedhim to preach upon, was these words in the thirdof Ezekial, already mentioned, by which he wasmore confirmed, that he had God’s call to thisparish. This parish had been iong vacant, by reasonthat two ministers of the Resolution-party viz.,Messrs Young and Blair, and still opposed thesettlement of such godly men as had been called bythe people. But in reference to Mr Cargill’s call,they were in God’s providence, much bound up fromtheir wonted opposition. Here Mr Cargill, per¬ceiving the lightness and unconcerned behaviour of;the people under the word, was much discouraged!well of a certain godly woman, she said to him“ Sir, you have promised to preach on Thursday,and have you appointed a meal for poor starvingpeople, and will you go away and not give it Myou do, the curse of God will go with you. 1so moved him, that he durst not go away as he intended; but sitting down, desir.d her and others t,pray for him. Se he remained and was settled Uthat parish, where he continued to exeicise «ministry with great success, to the unspeakabhhereat, so that he resolved to return nomc, accept the call, which, when he was urged by someodly ministers not to do, and his reason asked, hdnswered they are a rebellious people. The muiHters solicited him to stay, but in vain. But whenjhe horse was drawn, and he just going to egirtiis journey, being in the house of Mr Durham,then he saluted several of his Christian friends thatfair#* Wirse.satisfaction both of his own parish, ami all thegocllythat hearil and knew him, until tiiat, by the unhapnyRestoration of Charles the If. Prelacy was againrestored.Upon the 26th of May following, the day conse¬crated in commemoration of the said Restoration, hehad occasion to preach in his own church, it beinghis ordinary week-day’s preaching, when he sawan unusual throng of people come to hear him,thinking he had preached in compliance with thatsolemnity. Upon entering the pulpit, he said, “ Vt eare not come here to keep this day upon the accountfor which others keep it. We thought once to haveblessed the day, wherein the King came home again,but now we think we shall have reason to curse it;and if any of you come here in order to the solemniz¬ing of this day, u'e desire you to remove.’’ Andenlarging upon these words in the gth of Hosea,Rejoice not, () Israel, &c., lie said, “This is thefirst step of our going a-vvhoring from God; andwhoever of the Lord’s people this day are rejoicing,their joy will belike the crackling of thorns undera pot, it will soon be turned to mourning ; lie (mean¬ing the king) will be the wofullest sight ever thepoor church of Scotland saw ; wo, wo, wo unto him,his name shall stink while the world stands fortreachery, tyranny, and lechery.”This did exceedingly enrage the malignant partyagainst him, so that being hotly pursued, he wasobliged to abscond, remaining sometimes in privatehouses, and sometimes lying all night without, n-mong broom near the city, yet never omitting any6proper occasion of private preaching, catechising,and visiting of families, and other ministerial duties,but at length, when the churches were all vacatedof Presbyterians by an act of Council, 1662, Mid¬dleton sent a band of soldiers to apprehend him,who, coming to the church, found him not, he hav¬ing providentially just stepped out of the one doora minute before they came in at the other; where¬upon they took the keys of the church door withthem, and departed.—In the-mean while the Councilpassed an act of confinement banishing him to thenorth side of the Tay, under penalty of being im¬prisoned, and prosecuted as a seditious person.—But this sentence he no ways regardedDuring this time, partly by grief for the ruin ofGod's work in the land, and partly by the toils andinconveniences of his labours and acpmmodation, hisvoice became so broken, that he could not be heardby many together, which was a sore exercise to him,and discouragement to preach in the fields ; but one ,day Mr Blackatter coming to preach near Glasgow, jhe essayed to preach with him, and standing on a :chair, as his custom was, he lectured on Is. xliv.'S. |“ I will pour water ou him that is thirsty, &c.’’ Thepeople were much discouraged, knowing his voice ;to be sore broken, lest the should not have heard ]by reason of the great confluence. But it pleasedthe Lord to loose his tongue, and to restore his voiceto such a distinct clearness, that none could easilyexceed him; and not only his voice, but his spiritwas so enlarged, and such a door of utterance gi ven ihim, that Mr Blackatter, succeeding him, said to</Athe people, “ Ye that have sueh preaching, have noneed to invite strangers to preach to you ; makegood use of your mercy/’ After this he continuedto preach without the city, a great multitude at¬tending and profiting by his ministry, being won¬derfully preserved in the midst of dangers, theenemy several times sending out to watch him, andcatch something from his mouth whereof they mightaccuse him, &c.In October 166.5, they made a public search forhim in the city. But he, being informed, took horse,and rode out of town, and at a narrow pass of theway, he met a good number of musqueteers. As hepassed them, turning to another way' on the right-hand, one of them asked him, Sir, what o’clock isit ? he ansvyered. It is six. Another of them know¬ing his voice, said, There is the man we are seeking,—Upon healing this, he put spurs to his horse, andso he escaped"For about three years he usually resided in thehouse of one Margaret Craig, a very godly woman,where he lectured morning and evening to such ascome to hear him. And tho’ they searched strictlyfor him here, yet providence so ordered it, that hewas either casually or purposely absent, for theLord was often so gracious to him, that he left himnot without some notice of approaching hazard.”1 hus, one Sabbath, as he w'as going to Woodside topreach, as he was about to mount his horse, havingone foot in the stirrup, he turned about to his man,and said, I must not go yonder to-day—And in alittle a party of the enemy came there in quest ofshim; but missing the mark they aimed at, they feupon the people, by apprehending and imprisoninseveral of them.Another of his remarkable escapes was at a marcmade for him in the city, where they came to hchamber, and found him not, being providential]in another house, that night.—But what is mosremarkable, being one day preaching privately ithe house of one Mr Callander, they came and b?set the house; the people put him and anothe;nto a window, closing the window up with booksThe search was so strict, that they searched the verceiling of the house, until one of them fell throng:the lower loft Had they removed but one of th.books, they would certainly have found him. Buthe Lord so ordered that they did it not; for as onof the soldiers was about to take up one of then*the maid cried to the commander, that he was goin;to take her master’s books, and he was ordered tlet them be. Thus narrowly he escaped this dangerThus he continued until the 23d of Novembei1667, that the Council, upon information of a breadof his confinement, cited him to appear before then:on the 11th of January thereafter. But when hewas apprehended, and compeared before the Counciland strictly examined, wherein he was most singu¬larly strengthened to bear faithful testimony to hieMaster’s honour, and his persecuted cause anctruths; yet by the interposition of some persons olquality, his own friends, and his wife’s relations, howas dismissed, and presently returned to Glasgow,and there performed all the ministerial duties.9Some time before Both well, .notwithstanding allhe searches that were made for him by the enemy,:phieh were both strict and frequent, he preacublicly for eighteen Sabbath-days to multitudes,onsisting of several thousands, within a littie rnban a quarter of a mile of the city of GlaSj, *►ea, so near it, that the psalms, when singing wereicard through several parts, of it; and yet a t isimc uninterrupted.At Bothwell, being taken by the enemy, amtruck down to the ground with a sword, seeinglothing but present death for him, having leceivedleveral dangerous wounds in the head, one of thetoldiers asked his name ; he told him it was DonaldCargill; another asked him, if he was a minister .He answered, he was; whereupon they let him go.When bis wounds were examined, he feaied to askf they were mortal, desiring, in admission,to God,:o live, judging that the Lord had yet further w orn.hr him to accomplish.Some time after the battle at Bothwell, he waspursued from his own chamber out of town, andforced to go through several thorn hedges. But hewas no sooner out, than he saw a troop of dragoonsjust opposite to him ; back he couid not go, soldiersbeing posted every where to catch him; uponwhich he went forward, near by the troop, wholooked to him, and he to them, until he got past-Bnt coming to the place of the water at which heintended to go over, he saw another troop standingon the other side, who called to him but he madethem no answer. And going about a mile up thewater, he escaped, and preached at Langside nextSabbath, without interruption. At another time,being in a house beset with soldiers, he went throughthe midst of them, they thinking it w-as the good-man of the house, and escaped.After Both well, he fell into a deep exercise anentbis call to the ministry ; but, by the grace and good¬ness of God, he soon emerged out of that, and alsogot much light anent the duty of the day, being afaithful contender against the enemy’s usurpedpower, and against the sinful oompliance of mini¬sters, m accepting the indulgence, with indemnities,oaths, bonds, and all other corruptions.1 here was a certain woman in Rutherglen, abouttwo miles from Glasgow, who, by the instigation ofsome, both ministers and professors, was pursuadedto advise her husband to go but once to hear the.curate, to prevent the family being reduced j whichshe prevailed with him to do. But going the next’day after to milk her cows, two or three of themdiopt down dead at her feet, and Satan, as she con¬ceived, appeared unto her; which cast her undersad and sore exercises and desertion ; so that shewas brought to question her interest in Christ, andall that had formerly passed betwixt God and her )soul, and was often tempted to destroy herself, and 1sundry times' attempted it: Being therefore known !to be an eminent Christian, she was visited by manyChristians ; but without success : still crying out shewas undone; she had denied Christ, and he haddenied her. After continuing a dong time in thisexercise, she cried for Mr Cargill, who came to her.11ul found her distemper so strong, tiiat for severalisits he was obliged to leave her as he found her0 Ins no small grief. However, after setting somelays apart on her behalf, he at last came again toicr; but finding her no better, still rejecting allomfort, still crying out, that she had no interest inhe mercy of God, or merits of Christ, but had sin-led the unpardonable sin; he, looking in her face for1 considerable time, took out his Bible, and namingter, said, <f I have this day a commission from myLord and Master, to renew the marriage contracttetwixt you and him ; and if you will not consent[ am to require your subscription on this Bible, thatfou are willing to quit all right, interest in, or pre¬puce unto him and then he offered her pen andjnk for that purpose. She was silent for some timebut at last cried out, “ O ! salvation is come untothis house. I take him on his own terms, as he isoffered unto me by his faithful ambassador. Fiomthat time her bands were loosed.One time Mr Cargill, Mr Walter Smith, and someother Christian friends, being met in a friendshouse in Edinbnrh, one of the company told him ofthe general bonding of the Western gentlemen forsuppressing field meetings; and putting all out oftheir grounds who frequented them. After sittingisilentfor some time, he answered, with several heavyigighsand groans, “ The enemy have been long fillingup their cup; and ministers and professors mustliave time to fill up theirs also; and it shall not befull till enemies and they be clasped in one another'samts; and then, as the Lord lives, he will bring the12wheel of his wrath aiuljustice over them altogether.’Some time after the beginning of the year 1680,he retired toward the Frith of Forth, where heontinued until that scuffle at Queemferry, where 'worthy Haugh-head waskilled.and he sorely wound- ;ed. But escaping, a certain woman found him in .a private place, to the south of the town, and tieing ,up his wounds with her head-cloths, conducted himo the house of one Robert Puntens, in Carlowrie,where a surgeon dressed his wounds, and Mrs Pun- .ten gave him some warm milk, and he lay in theirbarn all night. From thence he went to the south,and next Sabbath preached at Cairuhill, somew hereajacent to Loudon, in his blood and w ounds,; for :no danger could stop him from going about doinggood. His text was in Heb. xi, 32. “ And whatshall I more say, for time would fail me to tell ofGideon, &c.” At night, some persons said to him.We think. Sir, preaching and praying go best withyou when your danger and distress are greatest.He said, it had been so, and he hoped it wmuld be :so, the more that enemies and others did thurst athim that he might fall, the more sensibly the Lord •,had helped him and then (as it had been to him- ;self) he repeated these words. The Lord is mystrength and song, and has become my salvation,in the 118th Psalm, which was the psalm he sungupon the scaffold.After this, he and Mr Richard Cameron met andpreached ^together in Dermeid-mnir, and otherplaces, until that Mr Cameron was slain at Airs-moss, and then he went north, where, in the month :of September following, he had a most numerousmeeting at the Torwood near Stirling, where hepronounced the sentence of excommunication, a-gainst some of the most violent persecutors of thatday, as formally as the present state of things couldpermit. Some time before this, it is said, he wasvery remote, and spoke very little in company ; onlyto some he said, he had atout to give with thetrumpet that the Lord had put in his hand, thatwould sound in the ears of many in Britain, andother places in Europe also. It is said, that no bodyknew what he was to do that morning, except MrWalter Smith, to whom he imparted the thoughtsof his heart. When he began, some friends fearedhe would be shot. Hi slondlord, in whose house hehad been that night, cast his coat and ran for it.In the forenoon, he lectured on Ezek. xxi. 25, &c.,and preached on 1 Cor. v. 13, and then discoursedsome time on the nature of excommunication, andthen proceeded to the sentence : after which, in theafternoon, he preached from Lam. iii. 31, 32, “ Forthe Lord will not cast off for ever.”The next Lord’s day, he preached at Fallowhill,in the parish of Livingstone. In the preface, hesaid, “ I knowr I am and will be condemned by many,forexcommunicating those wicked men, but con¬demn me who will, I know I am approven of byGod, and am persuaded, that what f have done onearth, is ratified in heaven ; for, if ever I knew themind of God, and was clear in my csll to any pieceof my generation-work, it was that. And I shallgive you two signs, that ye may know I am in n»delusion; (1.) If some of these men do not findthat sentence binding upon them, ere they go off thestage, and be obliged to confess it, &c. (2.) If thesemen die the ordinary death of men, then God hathnot spoken by me.About the 22d of October following, a long andsevere proclamation was issued out against him andhis followers, wherein a reward of 5000 merks wasoffered for apprehending him, &c.—Next month.Governor Middleton, h.aving been frustrated in hisdesign upon Mr Cargill at Queensferry, laid anotherplot for him, by consulting one James Hendersonin Ferry, who, by forging and signing letters, inthe name of Bailie Adam in Culross, and some otherserious Christians in Fife, for Mr Cargill to comeover, and preach to them at the hill of Eeith.- Ac¬cordingly, Henderson went to Edinburgh with theletters, and, after a most diligent search, found himin the West Bow. Mr Cargill being willing toanswer the call, Henderson proposed to go before,and have a boat ready at the Ferry when theycame ; and that he might know them, he desired tosee Mr Cergill’s cloth, Mr Skeen and Mr Boig beingin the same room. In the mean time, he had Mid¬dleton’s soldiers lying at the Mutton-hole, aboutthree miles from Edinburgh. Mr Skeen, ArchibaldStuart, Mrs Muir, and Marion Hervey, took theway before, on foot ; Mr Cargill and Mr Boig beingto follow on horseback. Whenever they came tothe place, the soldiers spied them; but Mrs Muirescaped and went and stopped Mr Cargill and MrBoig, who fled back to Edinburgh,15After this remarkable escape^ Mr Cargill seeingnothing hut the violent flames of treachery andtyranny against him, above all others, retired forabout three months to England, where the Lordblessed his labours to the conviction and edificationof many. In the time of his absence that delusionof the Gibbites arose, from one John Gib, sailor inBorrow-stqunness, ty'ho, with other three men, andtwenty six women, vented and maintained the mosstrange delusions. Some time after, Mr Gargill,returned from England, and was at no small pains! to reclaim them, but with little success. After hislast conference with them, at Darngavel, in Cum-busnethan parish, he came next Sabbath, andaed preached at the Underbankwood,below Lanark,and from thence to Loudon-hill, where he preachedupon a fast day, being the 5th of May. Here heintended only to have preached once, and to havebaptized some children. His text was, ‘ No manthat hath followed me in the regeneration, &c*When sermon was over, and the children baptized,more children came up ; whereupon friends pressedhim to preach in the afternoon ; which he did,from these words, “ Weep not for me,” &c.In the meanw'hile the enemy at Glasgow gettingnotice of this meeting, seized all the horses in andabout the town, that they could come by, andmounted in quest of him ; yea, such was their hasteand fury, that one of the soldiers, who happened tobe behind the rest, riding furiously down the streetcalled Stockwell, at mid-day, rode over a child, andkilled her on the spot. Just as Mr Cargill wasprajing at the close, a lad alarmed them of theenemy’s approach. They having no sentinels thatday which was not their ordinary, were surprised,so that some of them who had been at Pentland,Both well, Airs-moss, and other dangers, were neverso seized with fear, some of the women throwingtheir children from them. In this confusion MrCargill was running straight on the enemy ; butGavin Wotherspoon and others haled him to themoss, unto which the people fled. The dragoonsfired hard upon them, but there were none eitherkilled or taken that day.About this time, some spoke to Mr Cargill ofhis preaching and praying short. They said. ‘ OSir, it is long betwixt meals, and we are in a starv¬ing condition ; all is good, sweet and wholesome,that }rou deliver, but why do you so straiten us ?'He said, ‘ Ever since I bowed the knee in goodearnest to pray, I never durst pieach, and pray withmy gift; and when my heart is not affected, andcomes not up wdth my mouth, I always think ittime to quit it. What comes not from the heart, Ihave little hope it will go to the hearts of othersThen he repeated these wmrds in the 51st psalm‘ Then will I teach trangressors ihy way/ &c.From Loudon hill he took a tour through Ayr¬shire to Carrick and Galloway, preaching, baptizing,and marrying some people ; but staid not long untilhe returned to Clydesdale. He designed, after hisreturn, to have preached one day at Tinto-hill, butthe Lady of St. John’s Kirk gave it out to be atHome Common. He being in the house ot John17Liddel, near Tinto, went out to spend the Sabbathmorning by himself: and seeing the people all pass¬ing by, he inquired the reason; which being told,he rose and followed them five miles. The morningbeing told, he rose and followed them five miles.The morning being warm, (about the 1st of June,)and the heights steep, he was very much fatiguedbefore he got to the place, where a man gave him adrink'of water out of his bonnet, and another be¬tween sermons; this being the best entertainmenthe got that day, for he had tasted nothing in themorning. Here he lectured on the 6ch of Isaiah,and preached on these words, ‘ Be not high minded,but fear, &c.’ From thence he went to Fyfe, andbaptized many children, and preached one day atDaven common, and then returned to the Benry-bridgein Cambusnethan, where he received a callfrom the hands of two men, to come back to Gallo¬way, but got it not answered.Mr Cargill in that short time, had run very fasttowards his end, which now hastens apace- Havingleft the Benry-bridge, he preached one day atAuchingilloch, and then came to preach his lastsermon on Dunsyre common, between Clydesdaleand Lothian, upon the text Isaiah xxvi. 20, ‘ Comemy people and enter into your chambers, &e.Some time that night, through the persnasion ofMr Smith and Mr Boig, he went with the Lady ofSt. John's Kirk, as far as Covington Mill, to thehouse of one Andrew Fisher. In the meantime,James Irvine of Bonshaw, having got a generalcommission, marched with a party of dragoons fromKilbride, and next morning, by sun-rising, came to jSt. John’s Kirk, and having searched it, he searched! >also the house of one Thomson, and then came to.>Covington-mill, and there apprehended him, MrSmith, and Boig. Bonshaw, when he found them,cried out, O blessed Bonshaw ! and blessed day that,ever I was born! that has found such a prize!a prize of 5000 merks for apprehending him this;morning! They marched hard to Lanark and put-them in jail, until they got some refreshment andthen brought them out in haste, got horses and.set the prisoners on their bare backs. Bonshawtied Mr Cargill’s feet below the horse’s belly, withhis own hands, very hard ; at which this man lookeddown to him and said, ‘ Why do you tie me so hardyour wickedness is great. You will not long escapathe just judgment of God ; and, if I be not mistaken, iit will seize you in this very place.’ Which accor-;dingly next year came to pass ; for having got thisprice of blood, one of his comrades, in a rage ran !him through with a sword at Lanark ; and his lastwords were, £ G—d d n my soul eternally, forI am gone.’ Mischief shall hunt the violent man.They came to Glasgow in haste, fearing a rescueof the prisoners : and while waiting at the Tolhooth itill the magistrates came to receive them, one JohnNisbet, the Archbishop’s factor, said to Mr Cargill ,in ridicule, three times over, Will you give us oneword more ? (alluding to an expression he usedsometimes when preaching) ; to whom Mr Cargillsaid with regret, ‘ Mock not, lest your lands be madestrong* The day is coming, when you shail not haveane word to say though you would.’ This also camequickly to pass ; for, not many days after, he fellsuddenly ill, and for three days his tongue swelled,and though he was most earnest to speak, yet hecould not command one word, and died in great tor¬ment, -and seeming terror.From Glasgow they were taken to Edinburgh,and July 15th, were brought before the Council.Chancellor Rothes (being one of those whom he ex¬communicated at Torwood) raged against him, threat-.ening him with torture and a violent death. To| whom he said, ‘ My Lord Rothes, forbear to threaten, me, for die what death I will, your eyes shall not see1 it. Which accordingly came to pass; for he diedthe morning of that day, in the afternoon of whichMr Cargill was executed.When before the Council, he was asked if he ac¬knowledged the King’s authority, #c., he answeredas the magistrates authority is now' established by actof parliament, and explanatory act, that he deniedthe same. Being also examined anent the excom¬munication at Torwood, he declined to answer, asbeing an ecclesiastical matter, and they a civil judi¬catory. He owned the lawfulness of defensive arms,in cases of necessity, and denied that those who roseat Bothwell, &c., were rebels : and being interrogatedanent the Sanquhar declaration, he declined to givehis judgment until he had more time to considerthe contents thereof. He further declared, he couldnot give his sense of the killing of the Bishop ; butthat the Lord’s giving a call to a private man to kill,he might do it lawfully ; and gave the instances of3uJael and Phinehas. Tlase were the most materia1points on whicli he was examined.While he was in prison, a gentlewoman who cam*to visit him, told him weeping, 4 That those heaver'daring enemies were contriving a most violent dealtfor him ; some, a barrel with pikes to roll him in jothers an iron chair, red hot, to roll him in,’ ^ciBut he said, 4 Let you nor none of the Lord’s peoplebe troubled for these things, for all that they will get!liberty to do to me, will be to knit me up, cut medown, and chop off my old head, and then fare them;well ; they have done with me and with them forever.’He was again before the Council on the 19th, butrefusing to answer their questions, except anent theexcommunication. There was some motion made tospare him as he was an old man. and send him pris¬oner to the Bass during life, which motion beingput to the vote, was, by the casting vote of the Earlof Rothes, rejected; who doomed him to the gallows,there to die like a traitor.Upon the 26th he was brought before the justi¬ciary, and indicted in common form. Kis confession 1being produced in evidence against him, he wasbroughtin guilty of high treason, and condemned withthe rest, to be hanged at tlie cross of Edinburgh, andhis head placed on the Nether Bow. When theycame to these words in his indictment, viz., havingcast off all fear of God, 4'C., he caused the clerk tostop, and, pointing to the Advocate, Sir GeorgeM'Kenzie, said, 4 The man that hath caused thatpaper to be drawn up hath done it contrary to theli^bt of his own conscience, for he knowetli that Ihave been a fearer of God from mine infancy; butthat man I say, who took the Holy Bible in his hand,and said. It would never be well with the land, untilthat book was destroyed, <$c. I say, he is the manthat hath cast off all fear of God. The Advocatestormed at this, but could not deny the truth thereof.When they got their sentence announced by thesound of trumpet he said, ‘ That is a weary sound,but the sound of the last trumpet will be a joyfulsound to me, and all that will be found having onChrist’s righteousness.Beinff came to scaffold, he stood with his back tothe ladder, and desired the attention of the numerousspectators; and after singing from the 16th verse ofthe 118th psalm, he began to speak to three sorts olpeople ; but being interrupted by the drum, he saidwich a smiling countenance, ‘ Ye see we have noliberty to speak what we would, but God knowethour hearts.’ As he proceeded he was again interrupted. Then, after a little pause or silence, he be¬gan to exhort the people ; and to show his own com¬fort in laying down his life, in the assurance of ablessed eternity, expressing himself in these words :‘ Now, I am as sure of my interest in Christ, andpeace with God, as all within this Bible and theSpirit of God can make me ; and I am fully per¬suaded, that this is the very way for which I suffer,and that he will return gloriously to Scotland ; but itwill be terrifying to many ; therefore, I entreat you,be not discouraged at the way of Christ and thecause for which I am to lay down my life, and step22into eternity, where my soul shall lie as full of himas it can desire to be ; and now this is the sweetestand most glorious day that ever mine eyes did seeEnemies are now enraged against the way and peopleof God, but ere long they shall be enraged one a-gainst another, to their owm confusion.” Here thedrums did beat a third time. Then setting his footon the ladder, he said, “ The Lord knows I go onthis ladder w ith less fear, and perturbation of mind,than ever I entered the pulpit to preach.”—Whenup, he sat down, and said, “ Now I am near thegetting of the crown, which shall be stire, for whichI bless the Lord, and desire all of yon to bless him,that he hath brought me here, and made me triumphover devils, men, and sin. They shall wound meno more. I forgive all men the wrongs they havedone me; and I pray the sufferers may be keptfrom sin, and helped to know their duty.” Thenhaving prayed a little within himself, he lifted up thenapkin, and said, “Farewell all relations and friendsin Christ; farewell acquaintances and earthly enjoy¬ments ; farewell reading and preaching, praying andbelieving, wanderings ; reproach, and sufferings.Welcome Father, Son, and> Holy Ghost; into thyhands I commit m3r spirit.” Then he prayed a little,and the executioner turned him over as he was praj'-ing ; and so he finished his course, and the ministrythat he had received of the Lord.Take his character from Sir Robert Hamilton ofPreston, who was his contemporary. He was affec-onatc, affable, and tender-hearted, to all such as hethought had any thing of the image of God in them ;//2asober and temperate in his diet, saying commonly. Itwas well won that was won off the flesh ; generous,liberal and most charitable to the poor ; a great haterof covetousness ; a frequent visitor of the sick ; muchalone, loving to be retired; but when about hiaMaster’s public work, laying hold of every oppor¬tunity to edify ; in conversation, still dropping whatmight minister grace to the hearers; his countenancewas edifying to beholders : often sighing with deepgroans ; preaching in season, and out of season, uponall hazards; ever the same in judgment and practice.From his youth, he was much given to the duty ofsecret prayer, for whole nights together; wherein itwas observed, that, both in secret and in families, healways sat straight upon his knees, with his handslifted up ; and in this posture (as some took notice)he died with the rope about his neck.Besides his last speech and testimony, and severalother religious letters, with the lecture, sermon, andsentence of excommunication at Torwood, which,are all published, there are also several other sermons,and notes of sermons, iuterpersed amongsome people’shands, in print and manuscript, some of which havebeen published. Yet if we may believe Walker, inhis remarkable passages, &c.( who heard severals ofthem preached, they are nothing to w hat they werewhen delivered ; and however pathetical, yet doubt¬less far inferior to what they would have been, hadthey Ween corrected and published by the worthyauthor himself.2iAN ACROSTIC ON HIS NAME.Most sweet and savoury is thy fame,And more renowned is thy name,Surely than any can record,Thou highly favoured of the Lord.Exalted thou on earth didst live;Rich grace to thee the Lord did give.During the time thou dwelt below.On in a course to heaven didst go.Not casten down with doubts and fears,Assur'd of heaven near thirty years.Labour thou didst in Christ’s vineyard;Diligent wast, no time thou spar'd.Christ’s standard thou didst bear alone,After others from it were gone.Right zeal for truth was found in thee.Great sinners censurd’st faithfully.In holding truth didst constant prove,Laidst down thy life out of true love.June 21, 1741. W W