NEW AND IMPEOVED SEKIES,No. 47.TEE HISTORY OFTHE YELLOW DWARFGLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.? 1852. <THE HISTORYTHE YELLOW DWARF.{ Tiieke was once a Queen, who, though she had hornmany children, they all died but one daughter, and»eing left a widow, without the hopes of any more, shewas so very fond of her, that she completely spoiled herIvith indulgence. This Princess was so exceedinglybeautiful, that she went by the name of All-Fair; butlattery, and knowing she was born to a crown, made herio proud and vain, that she thought every person wasuorn only to serve her.When the Princess had reached her fifteenth year,jdie Queen, who was anxious to get her married, caused(rher picture to be drawn, and then sent it to all thelineighbouring courts. Such was the power of All-Fair’sbeauty, that every one who saw the picture fell desper->ately in love with her, and above twenty kings camo toipay their addresses to her. Never was a court more■brilliant; for these princes vied with each other ingiving splendid and expensive entertainments in honour'of All-Fair, and thought themselves richly recompensed,if she deigned to bestow on them a look or a smile.However desirous they were to please the Princess, yetnone of them had the power to touch her heart, and shewas so vain of her charms, that she refused every ofler1 of marriage with disdain.The Princess’s lovers complained to the Queen of heri cruelty, and she tried to persuade her daughter to marry! one of them ; but it was all to no purpose, for All-Fairtold her, that she was resolved never to marry ; and soconceited was this Princess, that she did not think therewas any prince in the world a good enough match for her.The Queen was in great distress at the stubbornness4of her daughter, and she found, too late, the error sishad committed in honouring her so much. Howeveishe determined to go and consult the Desert Fairy, wllived at a considerable distance, and to ask her advi>!concerning the Princess.Now, as this powerful fairy was guarded by two fieivlions, it was impossible to pass them without appeasintheir fury, and this could only be done by giving theia cake made of millet, sugar-candy, and crocodiles’ eggThe Queen having provided herself with a cake madfor the purpose, put it in a little basket, which shhung upon her arm, and set out for the abode of thfairy. After travelling for some time she felt verweary, and lay down under a tree to rest herself, whershe fell insensibly asleep.On awakening, she heard the roaring of the lion!which guarded the fairy, and she immediately seizeher basket, but alas! the cake was gone ; and almosbfrightened to death, she sunk down at the foot of the'tree. She was roused by hearing a voice crying, “ Hem !1hem!” and looking up, she saw a little yellow man,about half a yard in height, sitting on the tree picking;and eating oranges.“ Ah ! Queen,” said the Yellow Dwarf, who was called!by this name on account of his complexion, and theiorange-tree ho lived in, “how will you escape from theilions that are now approaching you, when you have nocake to pacify them ? I know the business that brought5♦you here, and as I am in want of a wife, and you aroanxious to get your daughter settled in life, if youpromise her to me in marriage, I will save you.” The.'Queen looked at the frightful little wretch, and was. struck with such horror at his disgusting appearance,ithat she could not utter a word ; but at that moment>(the lions making their appearance, she xvas so dreadfully■frightened, that she cried out, “ Save me, good Su¬it Dwarf, and my daughter is yours.” Immediately theDwarf caused the tree to open, and the Queen havingentered, it closed again.Nothing could exceed the astonishment of the Queen,for she instantly found herself in her own palace, dressedin a superb robe of curious lace, and attended by thePrincess and the other ladies of the court. At first theQueen began to think all that passed was only a dream;but tbe ricli dress she wore having convinced her of therfreality of it, and tho sight of All-Fair, she was seized 1with such a fit of melancholy, as to be unable cither to \speak, eat, or sloop. The Princess, who loved her imother, was much grieved at her distress, and havingin vain endeavoured to find out the cause of her dejec¬tion, determined to go and consult the Desert Fairyabout the state of the Queen. Accordingly, after pre¬paring a cake to appease the lions, which she put into abasket, the Princess set forward on her journey for theabode of the Fairy. As she went exactly the same roadher mother had taken before, she came to the fatal iorango-treo, which was loaded with fine fruit, and feelinga groat desire to gather some, she set down her basket,.and began to pluck and eat the oranges. In tho mean¬time tho lions fell a-roaring, and tho terror and grief ofthe Princess was inexpressible, on looking down, to findthat both her basket and cake were gone. While showas lamenting her deplorable situation, the YellowDwarf presented himself to her with these words:« Lovely Princess, dry up your tears, and hoar what Iam going to say : You need not proceed to tho DesertFairy to know the reason of your mother’s indisposition,sho is ungenerous enough to repent of having promisedyou, her adorable daughter, to me in marriage.”—“How!” interrupted the Princess; “my mother pro¬mised me to you in marriage ! you ! such a fright!’ —“ Nay, none of your scoffs,” returned tho Yellow Dwarf,7fvish you not to stir up my anger: if you will promiseiiarry me, I will be the tenderest and most loving(jand in the world—if not, save yourself from theb if you can.” In short, the Princess was forced toj her word that she would have him, but with such(agony of mind, that she fell into a swoon, out offh when she recovered, she found herself in her ownfinely adorned with ribbons, and a ring of a singleihair so fastened round her finger that it could notot off.i’his adventure had the same effect upon All-Fair asiformer had upon her mother. She grew melancholy,ch was remarked and wondered at by the whole court.■h best way to divert her, they thought, would ho to■ o her to marry ; which the Princess, who was nowtome less obstinate on that score than formerly, con-nted to; and thinking that such a pigmy as thofellow Dwarf would not daro to contend with so gallant:person as tho King of the Golden Mines, she fixed‘■on this king for her husband, who was exceedinglyph and powerful, and loved her to distraction. Tholost superb preparations were made for tho nuptials,id the happy day being fixed, tho king’s rivals, whofere in the utmost despair at his good fortune, left the■art, and returned to their dominions, not being able to) eye-witnesses to tbo Princess’s marriage.At last tho long-wishod-for day came, and tho nuptials'ere proclaimed by tho sound of trumpets and other8him, I swear by my coif I will bum my crutch.” T’|Queen and Princess were struck motionless by tl 1unexpected greeting of the Fairy ; but the Prince of t'Golden Mines was exceedingly wroth ; and, holding lisword toher throat, “ Fly, wretch!” said he, “or tmalice shall cost thee thy life.” No sooner haduttered these words, than the top of the box flying cout came the Yellow Dwarf, mounted upon a lar;Spanish cat, who placing himself between the King aithe Fairy, uttered these words : “ Rash youth, thy ra;shall bo "levelled at me, not at the Desert Fairy ; I athy rival, and claim her by promise, and a single hairound her finger.”This so enraged the King, that he cried out, “ Conitemptiblo creature ! wert thou worthy of notice, I wouiisacrifice thee for thy presumption.” AV hereupon tl|Yellow Dwarf, clapping spurs to his cat, and drawinga large cutlass, defied the King to combat; when thenwent into the court-yard. The sun immediately turnerred as blood, and it became dark: thunder and light!cerMnonies, the balconies were all adorned -j|:tapestries, and the houses bedecked with flowers ; wifi:as they were proceeding to the ceremony, they [imoving towards them a box, whereon sat an old woiiwremarkable for her ugliness. — “ Hold, Queen IPrincess,” cried she, knitting her brows, “remember rpromises you both made to my friend the YellowI am the Desert Fairy, and if All-Fair does notDwflms19. g followed, by the flashes whereof were perceived two,.nts vomiting fire on each side of the Yellow Dwarf.The King behaved with such undaunted courage, as/^ive the Dwarf great perplexity ; but was dismayed,iien he saw' the Desert Fairy, mounted on a wingedfffin, with her head covered with snakes, strike theiiineess so hard with a lance, that she fell into thekeen’s arms all covered with blood. This tenderother, w’ho w'as touched to tho very soul to see her[{ighter in this condition, made most sad complaints;til for the King, he lost both his reason and courage,l:t the combat, and ran to the Princess, to succour her,l.die with her ; but the Yellow Dwarf w'ould not allowI n time to get to her, but flew on his Spanish cat intoI) balcony where she was, and took her out of hersither’s arms, and from all the ladies, and then leapingion the top of the palace, disappeared with his prize.As the King stood confused and astonished at thislauge adventure, ho suddenly found a mist before hises, and himself lifted up in tho air by some extra¬dinary power: for the Desert Fairy had fallen in love"ith him. To secure him for herself, therefore, shei.n icd him to a frightful cavern, hoping ho would thererget All-Fair, and tried many artifices to complete herssigns. But finding this scheme ineffectual, she(solved to carry him to a place altogether as pleasantJi the other was terrible ; and accordingly sat him byurself in a chariot drawn by swans. In passing through10the air, he had the unspeakable surprise to see his adoi)Princess in a castle of polished steel, leaning her heon one hand, and wiping away the tears with the othShe happened to look up, and had the mortification,see the King sitting by the Fairy, who then by her amade herself appear extremely beautiful. Had not iKing been sensible of the Fairy’s power, he wroticertainly then have tried to free himself from her,some means or other ; but he knew it would be in vaand therefore pretended to have a liking for her. .last they came to a stately palace, fenced on one sidowalls of emeralds, and on the other by a boisterous stThe King, by pretending to be in love with the Fai,obtained the liberty to walk by himself on the shon;and, as he was one day invoking the powers of the s<ho heard a voice, and presently after was surprised wi,the appearance of a Mermaid, which, coming up witl|Ipleasant smile, spoke these words—“ O King of t’Golden Mines, I well know all that has passed in regato you and the fair Princess. Don’t suspect this to 'a contrivance of the Fairy’s to try you, for I am ;inveterate enemy both to her and the Yellow Dwaitherefore, if you will have confidence in me, I will leiyou my assistance to procure the ^release not only ■,yourself, but of All-Fair also.”She then cut down some sea-rushes, and blowing upqthem, said, “ I order you not to stir off from this beac ftill tho Desert Fairy cornea and takes you away..ui Whereupon a skin grew soon over the rashes, and theyI became an inanimate likeness of the King of the GoldenMines. After this, the Mermaid made the King sit uponher tail, and they sailed away in a rolling sea, with allimaginable satisfaction.When they had sailed some time, “Now,” said theMermaid to the King, “we draw near the place whereyour Princess is kept by the Yellow Dwarf. You willhave many enemies to fight before you come to her;take, therefore, this sword, with which you may over¬come every thing, provided you never let it go out ofyour hand.” The King returned her all the thanksthat the most grateful heart could suggest; and thoMermaid landed and took leave of him, promising himfarther assistance when necessary.But to return to tho Desert Fairy: When sho sawthat her lover did not return, she hastened after to findhim, running along all the shore, attended with ahundred young damsels, loaded with presents for him:some brought great baskets Yuli of diamonds, somegolden vessels of admirable work, some ambergris, coral,and pearls, and some carried great pieces of stuffs upontheir heads of prodigious riches; in short, every thingthat might bo acceptable. But in what a sad conditionwas the Fairy, when, following this noble troop, she sawthe rushes in the shape of the King of the GoldenMines: she was so amazed and grieved, that she gavea terrible shriek, that made the lulls echo again: sho12threw herself upon the body, cried, howled, and tore)*fifty of the persons that were with her in pieces, as a f |sacrifice to the manes of the dear deceased.The King, in the meantime, after parting with the pMermaid, advanced boldly forward, and meeting with rtwo terrible sphinxes, who flew at him, would have tornhim in a thousand pieces, had it not been for the Mer¬maid’s sword, which glittered so in their eyes, that theyfell down at his feet without any strength, when he gaveeach a mortal wound. He then attacked six dragons,which opposed his passage, and despatched them also.Then he met with four-and-twenty nymphs, holding intheir hands long garlands of flowers, with which theystopped his passage: “ Whither are you going, sir?”said they; “ we are appointed to guard this place, andif we let you pass, it will be bad both for you and |us ; therefore pray be not obstinate,—you would notimbrue your victorious arm in the blood of so manyinnocent young damsels, who have done you no wrong.”At these words, the lung, who was a groat admirer ofthe fair sox, and had professed himself always theirprotector, was so confounded to think that he must forcehis passage through them, that he knew not what toresolve on ; when he heard a voice say, “ Strike ! strike !or you will lose your Princess for ever!” upon which hethrew himself into the midst of them, and soon dispersedthem. This being the last obstacle he had to meet with,ho went into the grove where the Princess lay pale and13languishing by a brook-side ; and upon bis fearfullyapproaching towards her, she flew from him with asmuch terror as if he had been the Yellow Dwarf.“ Condemn me not, madam,” said he, “ before you hearme ; I am neither false nor guilty of what you imagine,but only an unfortunate wretch, that has displeased youwith repugnance to himself.” “ Ah ! barbarous man !”cried she, “ I saw you traversing the air with a beautifulperson; was that against your consent?” “Yes,Princess,” said he, “it was: the wicked Desert Fairy,not satisfied with chaining me to a rock, took me withher in her chariot, and conveyed me to a distant part ofthe world, where I should have languished out my days,had it not been for a kind Mermaid that brought mehither. I come, my Princess, to deliver you out of thehands of those that detain you here: refuse not theassistance of the most faithful of lovers.” Thereupon hothrew' himself at her feet, and catching hold of her gown,unfortunately let fall the magic sword ; and the YellowDwarf, who lay behind some small shrubs, no soonersaw it out of the King’s hand, than, knowing its power,he ran and seized it.The Princess, at the sight of the Dwarf, gave aterrible shriek. “ I am now,” said the Dwarf, “ masterof my rival’s fate ; however, I will grant him his lifeand liberty, on condition that he consents to mymarriage.” “No, I will die a thousand deaths first,”14cried the amorous King in a rage. “Alas!” replieithe Princess, “the thoughts of that is the most terribB’;of them all.” “ Nothing shocks me so much,” answeresrthe King, “ as that you should become a victim to thflmonster.” “ Then,” said the Princess, “ let us ditogether.” “No, my Princess,” said the King, “let imhave the satisfaction of dying for you." “ I woulkisooner,” said she, “consent to the Dwarfs desires.,n“ Oh ! cruel Princess !” interrupted the King, “ shoul. iyou marry him before my face, my life would ever aftebe odious to me.” “ No, it shall not be before thy face,,)replied the Dwarf, “ for a beloved rival I cannot bear p1and at these words he stabbed the King to the heartThe disconsolate Princess, aggravated to the last degre'at such barbarity, thus vented her grief—“ Thou hideou.creature! since entreaties could not avail thee, pcrhapthou now roliest upon force: but thou shalt bo dis¬appointed, and thy brutal soul shall know perpetua -mortification from the moment I tell theo I die for thilove I have for the King of the Golden Minos!” Audso saying, she sunk down upon his body, and expiretwithout a sigh.Thus ended the fate of these two faithful lovers, whichthe Mermaid very much regretted ; but, all her power,lying in the sword, she could only change them into twc4palm-trees, which, preserving a constant mutual affection ifor each other, caress and unite their branches together *THE HISTORYOFLITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.Near a village called Roseville, in the South ofFrance, dwelt an infirm aged woman, who had nothingto subsist on but the savings of former industry ; herchief comfort was a grand-daughter, who resided withher parents, about three miles distant in a fertile valley.Her name was Celia, but she was better known by thatof Little Red Riding-Hood, from her grandmotherhaving made her one of cherry-coloured silk, which verymuch became her pretty face and delicate form. Celiakept constant to her school, but every holiday she, ingeneral, went to visit the old lady, and take her somelittle present, which was a pleasing grateful act of duty.The weather proved cold and rainy, so that Red Riding-Hood had not seen her grandmother for more than afortnight, which was a great grief to the little girl;more so, as she knew the former was ill. At length toher joy came a fine morning, and her kind parents gaveher a holiday that she might visit the old lady, and takea pot of butter, some home-baked cakes, and a bottle ofcurrant wine to comfort her.When Red Riding-Hood was leaving the cottage, hermother told her not to loiter on the road, to talk with nostrangers, and to bo home before dusk ; all which com¬mands she promised to obey, but was not so dutiful inperforming. More than an hour was spent before shoeven left the village, in talking to the little girls whowere playing about, letting them know that she wasgoing to take her grandmother a pot of butter, somecakes, and a bottle of wine. This was very wrong, asit did not in the least concern them, and was likewisedisobeying the commands of her indulgent parent.As she pursued her way by the wood side, RedRiding-Hood was startled on beholding a wolf, (abeast of prey with which the South of France is infested,)who camo from amongst the trees ; she was on the pointof flying to some reapers who were in the next field, toseek protection, when the wolf speaking civilly to her,16she stopped to hoar what he had to Say. The wolf wastreacherous and designing, therefore laid his plansaccordingly. Willingly would he have eaten up RedRiding-Hood that minute, for ho was almost famishedwith hunger, hut he was fearful her cries would bringsome of the workmen to her assistance, when it wasmost likely he would be put to death.“ Good morning to you, my pretty Miss,” said he,“where are you going, and what have you in thatbasket that hangs on your arm?”“ I am going, Sir Wolf,” said she, “to see my grand¬mother, who is very fond of me. It was her who mademe this pretty red riding-hood; and I am going to takeher a pot of butter, some cakes, and a little of our bestwine, as she is ill; I wish we could spare more.”“ That is very good of you,” said the wolf, “ pray doesshe live far from hence ?”“ Yes, Sir, she resides alone in the white cottagebehind the mill you can see yonder.”“ My dear little girl,” said the wolf, “ I know the oldlady very well, and I shall call and see her shortly.—Good bye, do not hurry yourself, the sun is hot and youmay get a fever.”How very civil the wolf is, thought the silly girl; how-wrong people are to bo afraid of him and give out thathe eats children. I dare say it is an untruth. I amsure he was very kind to me ; the day is indeed warm,and why should I fatigue myself, there is plenty of timebetween this and dusk. So she amused herself withcatching butterflies, and filling the top of her basketwith field flowers, to make bow pots for the mantel-piece ;and, in fact, tired herself three times more than thelength of the walk w-ould have done.At length, having collected a store of butter-cups,blue-bells, violets and daises, she hastened on,—Her basket o’er her arm she hungAnd as she went she sweetly sung—A lady liv’d beneath the hill,And if not gone she is there still.In the meantime, the artful wolf ran as swift as fourlegs could convey him, to the white cottage, and tappedat the door.17U“ Who is there ?” said the old woman.“ It is me, your grandchild, Little Red Riding-Hood,”replied the wolf, imitating Celia’s voice.“ I am ill in bed, child,” called the grandmother, “ sopull the bobbin, and the door will open.”The wily wolf the bobbin drew,The cottage door wide open flew.Alas ! poor old woman, instead of beholding a tenderdutiful grandchild, it was a ravenous wolf, who havingmade no prey for three or four days, sprang upon her,and eat her up.The wolf having closed the door, put on the old•woman’s night-cap and gown, and got into bed, whereho lay quite snug, waiting the arrival of Red Riding-Hood.When he had lain about an hour, she came with twoor three gentle raps.“ Who is there ?” said the wolf, with such a roughvoice that poor Celia was startled, until she recollectedhearing that her grandmother had a severe cold. She•mswered, “ It is me. Little Red Riding-Hood, with apot of butter, some cakes, and a bottle of wine.”“ Thank you kindly, darling,” said the wolf, “pull thebobbin, and tho latch will go up.”Celia did so, and the door opened.As she entered the room the wolf said, “ Put yourbasket on tho table, take off your clothes, and come intobod, that you may rest a little after your long walk.”“ So I will, grandmother,” said the poor innocent,“ as soon as I have put these pretty flowers, that I havegathered for you in the pots.”“ That is a good child,” said tho wolf, softening hisvoice as much as possible.“ Shall I sweep up your room dear grandmother, andundraw your curtains, it is so dark,” asked little Celia,to whom great merit was due for cleanliness and activityin domestic affairs : who now thought her grandmother’sroom looked unusually disturbed.Ill health, in fact, accounted for this change, and sinwould most willingly have exerted herself in making ittidy.This proposal did not please the wolf, darkness suited18him best: and pleading a violent headache as anexcuse for not undrawing the curtain, said, cleaningshould be left until the following week, when she trustedto be better.“ Do so,” said Celia, who dearly loved her grand¬mother ; “then I will come and bring you some custards,and every thing we have got that is nice.”The cruel wolf heard all she said without feeling theleast pity or desisting from his plan ; for though he hadmade a hearty meal of the poor grandmother, lied,Riding-Hood was too dainty a treat for the glutton towithstand; he accordingly again desired her to come tobed.“ Only look up dear grandmother, and see how nicelyI have decorated your chimney-piece, I know you arefond of flowers,” said the artless girl.“ True, darling,” replied the wolf, burying his headunder tho clothes lest he should betray himself, “ but myhead aches so sadly I cannot raise it from the pillow.”“ How sorry I am,” said Celia, “ and how grieved myparents, mother in particular, will be, to hear you areso ill; when they know it they will soon be here. ShallI help you to some of the nice white cake, and a glassof wine ?”“ No, thank you,” answered he, “ I can take none justnow, for I made a hearty meal, which I relished much,just before you came and I heard your welcome voice.”Here the wolf spoke true ; he had so filled his stomachwith poor granny, that at present he had no appetite foranother repast, or he would not have spared Little RedRiding-Hood so long.Celia had not been long in bod when she thus began ;—“ Grandmother, as I was coming along, who do youthink I met.”“ I cannot guess, child, so pray tell mo, that is thoreadiest and most proper way.”“ 1 met the wolf of the wood ; and at first I was sofrightened that I thought to hasten to some farmer’smen who were near, and cry for aid, as you and mymother have often told me if any thing happened on theroad to alarm me, to do.”“ So you ought to have done,” said tho wolf, “ If1»(children always acted according to the ad rice of theirbest friends, wolves seldom would have a treat.”| “Ah, grandmother, he spoke so kind and civil, myfears ended. I dare say he meant me no more harmthan you do at this moment.”| “ I dare say not,” answered the exalting animal witha malicious grin.“ Then I hope you are not angry with me for speakingito him,” said the poor girl, “and tolling him that I wasxoming to you with some wine and cake, and a nice pot|of new churned butter.”“ I never was better pleased, you may believe me,”(said the wolf, “but go to sleep, my little prattler, for Iifeel tired with talking, and am faint with illness.”“Do not let mo slumber long,” said Colia, “for my[mother told mo to be home long before dusk.”“Very well,” replied the supposed old woman, “you(do not, however, always obey your mother, or you wouldnot have talked to the wolf; but for the reapers in the[field he might have eaten you up.”So thought Ited Riding-Hood.—“ Then my grand-i mother is Angry, though I understood just now she was[ never better pleased. It certainly was very wrong formo to loiter and stay on the road; and still worse totalk with the wolf of the wood. I hope my mother willpardon mo when I tell her, and promise never to offendagain by disobedience ; no I will be wiser in future.”Celia was too good a child to strive to conceal anytransaction in which she was concerned from herparents; and this is an example worthy of imitation.Candidly tell your faults to those friends who haveauthority over you, they will the more readily pardontho past, and assist you with advice as to the future,“ Concealment oft 'becomes a crime,So pray young friends attend my rhyme:Frankness displays a noble mind,And when witli virtuous deeds combin’dI give it praise beyond all worth,Of glittering gems or gold on earth.”Celia continued to sleep, till the wolf, feeling a returnof appetite, threw aside the curtains to gaze on hisdelicious feast, and pressed her so tight in his fore pawsas to awaken her.20“Dear grandmother,” said Celia, “how rough andlong your arms have grown.”—“The fitter to fondloj]you, my dear.”—“ How your ears stand up in your cap,”1—“ The better to hear thy sweet voice, my love.”-“ How large and bright your eyes are, grandmother.”—“ The more proper to gaze on you my darling.”—“ Buthow huge and frightful your teeth are.”—“ All the betterto devour with.”—And ho sprang on the child, who^screamed out, “ Oh ! you are not my dear, kind, grand¬mother, but the wicked wolf of the wood.” She had nottime to say more, for he ate her up in a few minutes.The cruel wolf did not long survive these horrid deeds ;for falling asleep after ho had despatched his victim, heneglected to secure a timely retreat, and was caught inthe bed by Celia’s parents, and other persons, who,alarmed by her stay, came lato at night in search of her.A slight search disclosed tho horrid deeds ho had com¬mitted, and just vengeance overtook him: ho died ontho spot covered with wounds.THE MAGIC BOTTLE.Mick Purcell rented a few acres of barren groundin tho neighbourhood of Mallow, in the county of Cork.Mick had a wife and family ? they all did what theycould, and that was but little, for tho poor man had nochild grown up big enough to help him in his work ; andall the poor woman could do was to mind tho children,milk the one cow, boil tho potatoes, and carry the eggsto market; but with all they could do, ’twas hard enoughon them to pay the rent. Well, they managed it for agood while ; but at last came a bad year, and the littlegrain of oats was all spoiled, the chickens died of thopip, and the pig got the measles—s/ie was sold for almostnothing; and poor Mick hadn’t enough to half pay hisrent, and two terms were due.“ Why, Molly,” says he, “what’ll we do !”“ Wisha, then, mavourneen ! what would you do butsell the cow?” says she; “and Monday is Cork fair-day, and so you must go to-morrow, that the poor bastomay be rested again the fair.”21k" And what’ll we do when sho’s gone?” says Mick,sorrowfully.“ Never a know I know, Mick ; but sure God won’tlave us without him, Mick ; and you know how good hohas been to us many a time when our backs have beensore enough at the wall.”—“ Och! you are always thatI way, Molly, and 1 believe you are right after all, so Iwon't be sorry for selling the cow.”Mick drove his cow slowly along the road, and throughthe stream which crosses it,under the old walls of Mourno.After six long miles he came to the top of a hill—Bottle-hill ’tis called now, but that was not the name ofit then, and just there a man overtook him. “Goodmorrow,” says he. “ Good morrow, kindly,” says Mick,looking at the stranger, who was a little man,—you’dalmost call him a dwarf.“ Where aro you going with the cow, honest man ?”“ To the fair of Cork, then,” answered Mick, tremblingat his shrill and piercing voice.“ Are you going to sell her ?" said ho.“Why then, what else am I going for?”“ Will you sell her to me ?”Mick started—ho was afraid to have anything to dowith him, and more afraid to say no.“ What’ll you give for her ?” at last says Mick.“ I’ll tell you what, I’ll give you this bottle,” said thelittle one, pulling it out.Mick, in spite of his terror, could not help laughing.“Laugh if you will,” said the little man, “but I tellyou this bottle is better than all the money you will getfor the cow in Cork.”Mick laughed again. “Why then,” says he, “doyou think I am such a fool as to give my good cow for abottle—and an empty one too? indeed, then, I won’t.”“ You had better give me the cow, and take the bottle—you’ll not bo sorry for it.”“ Why, then, and what would Molly say ? I’d neverhoar the end of it; and how would I pay the rint ?”“ I tell you this bottle is better to you than money ;take it, and give mo the cow. I ask you for the lasttime, Mick Purcell.”Mick started.22“ How does he kuow my name?” thought he.“ Mick Purcell, I know you, and I have a regard foryou ; therefore do as I warn you, or you may be sorryfor it. Your cow may die before you go to Cork.There may be many cattle at the fair, and you get a badprice, or you may be robbed when you are cominghome; but I see you are determined to throw awayyour luck, Mick Purcell.”“ Oh ! no, I would not throw away my luck, sir, andif I was sure the bottle was as good as you say, I’d giveyou the cow.”“ Give me the cow!” said he ; “I would not tell youa lie. Here, take the bottle, and do exactly what Idirect.”Mick hesitated.“ Well, then, good bye, I can stay no longer: oncemore, take it, and be rich ; refuse it, and beg for yourlife, with your children in poverty and your wife dyingfor want!” said the little man with a grin.“ May be ’tis true,” said Mick, still hesitating ; he didnot know what to do,—at length, in a fit of desperation,he seized the bottle—“ Take the cow,” said he, “ and ifyou are telling a lie, the curse of the poor will be onyou.”“ I have spoken truth, Mick Purcell, and that you willfind to-night, if you do what I tell you,”“ And what’s that?” says Mick.“ When you go home, never mind if your wife boangry, but be quiet yourself, and make her sweep theroom clean, set the table out right, and spread a cleancloth over it; then put the bottle on the ground, sayingthese words : ‘ Bottle, do your duty! ’ ”“ And is this all ?” says Mick.“ No more,” said the stranger, “ Good bye, MickPurcell—you are a rich man.”“ God grant it!” said Mick, as the old man movedafter the cow, and he retraced the road towards hiscabin. lie could not help turning to look after his cow;but none was to bo seen.“ Lord between us and harm! ” said Mick: “He can'tbelong to this earth; but where is the cow?” Mickwent homeward muttering prayers, and holding fast thebottle.23At last Mick reached his home. “ Oh! Mick, aroyou come back ?” said his ■wife. “ Snro you weren’t atCork all the way? Where is the cow? Did you sellher ? Tell us every thing about it.”So Mick had nothing left but to tell tho whole storyof his meeting with the little man, and how he had toldMick that the bottle was the only thing for him.Mick’s wife was grieved and angry at her husband’sfolly; but at last becoming pacified, she got up, andbegan to sweep the floor ; put out the table, and spreadthe cloth upon it, and Mick, placing the bottle on thoground, looked at it and said, “ Bottle, do your duty !”“Look there! look there, mammy!” said his chubbyeldest son, “look there ! look there !” and he sprang tohis mother’s side, as two tiny little fellows rose like lightfrom the bottle, and in an instant covered the table withdishes and plates of gold and silver, full of the finestvictuals that ever were seen, and when all was done,went into the bottle again. After a long pause ofastonishment, they sat down and made a hearty meal,though they could not taste half the dishes.“Nowr,” says Molly, “ I wonder will those tw’O goodlittle gentlemen carry away these fine things again ?”They waited, but no one came ; so Mick next day wentto Cork and sold his plate, and bought a horse and cart,and began to show that ho was making money. Hislandlord at last found out the secret, and offered him adeal of money for the bottle ; but Mick would not giveit, till at last he offered to give him all his farm for ever ;so Mick, who was very rich, thought he’d never wantany more money, and gave him the bottle: but Mickwas mistaken—he and his family spent money as ifthere wTas no end of it; and to make the story short,they became poorer and poorer, till at last they hadnothing left but one cow ; and Mick once more drove hiscow before him to sell her at Cork fair, hoping to meetthe old man and get another bottle. It was hardly day¬break when ho left homo, and he walked on at a goodpace till he reached the big hill, where he was fortunateenough to meet again with his queer little friend. Micktold his story, and after some parley got another bottle.“ Good bye to you, sir,” said Mick, as he turned back ;24" and good luck to you, and good luck to the big hill—it wants a name—Bottle-hill.—Good bye, sir, good byeso Mick walked back as fast as he could, calling out assoon as ho saw Molly—“ Och! sure I’ve got anotherbottle.”In an instant she put every thing right; and Mick,looking at his bottle, exultingly cried out, “ Bottle, doyour duty !” In a twinkling two great stout men withbig cudgels issued from the bottle, and belaboured poorMick and his wife and all his family, till they lay on thefloor, when in they went again. Mick, as soon as horecovered, got up and looked about him ; he thought andthought, and at last ho took the bottle under his coatand went to his landlord, who had a great company : hegot a servant to tell him ho wanted to speak to him.“ Well, what do you want now ?”“ Nothing, sir, only I have another bottle.”“ Oh ! ho! is it as good as the first?”“ Yes, sir, and better; if you like, I will show it toyou before all the ladies and gentlemen.”“ Como along, then.” So saying, Mick was broughtinto the great hall, where he saw his old bottle standinghigh up on a shelf; “Ah! ha!” says ho to himself,“may be I won’t have you by and by.”“Now,” says his landlord, “show us your bottle.”Mick set it on the floor, and uttered the words: in amoment the landlord was tumbled on the floor ; ladiesand gentlemen, servants and all, were running, androaring, and sprawling, and kicking, and shrieking, untilthe landlord called out, “ Stop those two devils, MickI’urcell, or I’ll have you hanged !”“ They never shall stop,” said Mick, “ till I get myown bottle that I see up there at the top of that shelf.”“ Give it down to him, give it down to him, before weare all killed !” says the landlord.Mick put his bottle in his bosom : in jumped the twomen into the new bottle, and ho carried them home,where ho got richer than ever, and much wiser ; for hodid not, as before, make any show of wealth or grandeurto draw upon him the observation and envy of neigh¬bours, but contented himself with a plain supply ofthose things which best befitted his station.