CHRIST,The Christian’s Glory.ASERMON,PREACHEDAt the Vifitation of the ReverendJohn Brown, D. D. Archdean ofNorthampton; held at All-Saints inNorthampton, on 10th May, 1753.Galatians VI. 14.God forbid that I Jhould glory fave inthe 'Irqfs of our Lord 'Jefus Chrijt.By the late Rev. Mr. JAMES H E R V E Y, A. M.Rector of Wefton-Favell, in Northamptonjhire.GLASGOW:Printed and Sold by J. & J. ROBERTSON.OF SCOTLAND r)THECROSSJ ,, ■O FG II R I s !'•The Christian’s Glory.GALATIANS VI. 14.God forbid that I (hould glory. Cave in the Crofsof our LORD JESUS CHRls tTH E Crols of Ghrift was the favourite topicof St Paul’s contemplation: The Crofsof Chrift was the chofen fubjedh of his fer-tnons, snd the grand theme of his writings At all times, and in every capacity, h^ proteffedjhe avowed, he gloried in the crofs of Ghriff.--—Nay, what is very remarkable, he gloried in no¬thing elfe—and, what is ftill more obiervable, heabhorred the thought of glorying in any thing eKe,He fpeaks of fuch a praftice in the language of de-teOation and dread, accounting it a'high degreeboth of folly and of wickednefs: God forbid that /fi t * Id glory, fave in the Crofs of our Lord JefusCkrijl.sr .1*4 The CROSS ofCHRIST,It may therefore be an employ worthy of ourprefent attention, to enquire into the nature, tnerealbnablenefs, and the wifJom of this refblution.All which, 1 hope, will appear, if we ccnfider,I. In what the apoftle would npt gldry.II. In what he did glory.III. What reafon he had to glory in the Crofs ofChrift.Thefe points being briefly difpatched, I fliail begleave to add a word of application, fuggefted bythe tenor of the difcourfe, and adapted to the cir-cvimflances of my leveral hearers. And may thatadorable Jefus, who has exchanged his Grofs for anheavenly Crown, accompany all with his divineblefling!Let us then enquire, I. In what the tvpoftle didnot glory. Not in the greatnefs of his learning,as a Ichclar. He was brought up at the feet of Ga¬maliel ; educated by the moft famous tutor of theage. Nor was his genius, or his induftry; infe¬rior to yie other advantages of his education. Yetail thefe advantages, with their correfpondent ac-qmfitions, he accounted no better than pompousignorance, or refined folly.Not in the flriftuels of his life, as a Jew. Inthis refpeft he profited above bis equals; was taughtaccording to the perfect manner of the law of thefathers ; after the JlriSief} fe£t of their religion,he lived a Pharijee : was zealous, exceedingly' zea¬lous, of *hc frhole ceremonial law, and of all thetraditional conftitutions. , Whicft accomplUhinentsmull finilh his chai.ifter among his countrymen;mull open his way to (bme of the firft honours ofthe CHRISTIAN’S Glory/ sthe nation ; and give him a name among tholeworthies, who were reputed the excellent of vheearth. But what others counted gain, this he count¬ed lols for Chrift.Not in the eminency of his gifts, nor in the ex¬tent of his ulefulnels as a Chriftian minifterHe had been caught up into the third heaven; hadheard the words of God, and icen the vifion of theAlmighty ; had' wrought all manner of wonders,and figns, and mighty deeds."* What was ftillmore valuable, he had planted churches, and con¬verted fouls. His labours were gone out into alllands, and his words into the ends of the earth —Yet all thefe acquirements, befare the infinite God,were defective ; all thcle performances in point ofjuftification, were infufficient Therefore in noneof thele he gloried. Which reminds me of thelecond enquiry.II. In what the apoftle did glory.-—He gloriedin a crofs. Strange! What fo fcandalous as acrols?On a crofs rebellious flaves were executed. Theerofs was execrable among men, and accurlcd evenby*God. Yet the apoftle glories in the crofs. Crucifixion not being ufed among us, the exprel-fion does not found fo harlh, neither is the idea fotorrid. But to the ear of a Galatian, it conveyedmuch the fame meaning, as if the apoftle had glo¬ried in a halter, gloried in the gallows, gloried ina gibbet. 'Stupid creature, perhaps fome may reply, to un¬dervalue the moft fubftantial endowments, and glo¬ry in infamy itlelf! But ftop a moment, and hearthe apoftle farther. He glories in the crofs of Chrift;that illuftrious perfon, who was anointed to be theall-inftrutting prophet, the all-atoning prieft, andthe6 The CROSS of CHRIST,the a'i-conquering king of the chuich—-In the croftof Chrift Jefus; who, by the dtlcharge of all tholeiiTiportant offices, (hould fave his people from thedominion of fin, and from the damnation of hell.—In rhe croft of Chi ill: Jefus our Lord; and not oursonly, but Lord of all; who doth according to hiswill, in the army of heaven and among the inha¬bitants of the earth ; "who hath on his vejlure> andon his thigh luritten, King of kings, and Lord oflords •And is it poflible for any human hearj to con¬template the Croft of fo divine a Being, and not toglory ? Is it pofiible to fay, Angels, he rules overyou ; but he died, he died on a croft for me : andnot exult in luch tranfporting beneficence?—Thiswill be more evident, if we examine,III. What reafbn the apefile had to glory in theCroft of Chrift. The Crois, though in it (elf anignominious tree; yet, being the Croft of Chrift,is infinitely ennobled. It becomes the tree of life ;it bears the divineft fruit; its ciufters are all fpiri-tuai and heavenly bleffings. Two or three of tholeciufters you will permit me to feleft ; and may theGod of all mercy make them better than a feaft toevery humble foul.One bleffing is the pardon of fin; the pardon ofall tin, original and affual: fin that is remembered,and fin that is forgotten; fin, however circumltan-ced, or however aggravated. The pardon of aiiwas pu'chaled by the deith of Chrift; complete¬ly pyrdulld:—lb that, againft the true believer, fin(halt never r le up in judgment; (hall not lb muchas be mentioned unto him ; (hall be done away, asthough it had nevei been. For thus laith the am-balfudor of the Prince of peace. Be it kno-wn untoyouthe CHRISTIAN’S Glory. 7(you, men and brethren, that through this man ispreached unto you the foraivenefs of fins ; and. by■him all that belie-ie are jufiified from all things*.Oh my Ibq! J my guilty Ibul 1 What are all thekingdoms of the world, and the glories of them,compan d with this ineffable blefiing! Yet this is butone among a multitude.Another benefit, accruing from the crofs ofChrift, is reconciliation \vith God. —When -we •wereenemies, we were reconciled to God, by the death ofhis Son. Not pardoned only, but accepted; froma ftate of enmity, reftored to a Hate of favour; e-yen that favour which is better than life. A piivi-!ege of fuch fuperlative excellency, that it was ce¬lebrated in the hymns of angels. When the hea¬venly hoff offered a fong,. this, was the fubjeft oftheir harmonious joy ; Glory be to God in the high-efl; and on earth peace, good will towards men,“ By the birth of this wonderful Child, and the“ death he ffiall fuftain, peace is made between“ heaven and earth: and not peace only, but a“ divine friendfliip commentes. God regards thepoor apoftate race of men, not only wiihout in«“ dignation, but with comp! cency and delight“ He rejoices over them to do them good.”Another benefit is holtnefs ; or, if you pleafe,the true, the Chriftian morality; Let none think,the believer in Jefus difparagcs true morality. Truemorality is the image of the bleffed God: it is moftcharmingly delineated throughout the whole Bible:it is the beginning of heaven in the human foul ;and its proper •origin is from the Grots of our di¬vine Mailer. For, through the merits of his death,fmners are made partakers of the holy Spirit; whowrites upon their heafts, and tnakes'iegible in theirconveriation, what was anciently written upon themitre» The CROSS ^CHRIST,mitre of the high-pneft, Holiness to the Lord. And oh ! what a mbtive is the Crofs of Chrift jjto the ejtercile of every virtue! He died; my Lord, jmy Judge, my king died ; to redeem me fromaU iniquity, and make me zealous of good works, fjHow powerfully, far beyond any naked inftruc- fl,tio»s, or abftraft reafonings, do juch confidera-tions invite us, urge us, conftrain us, to renounce Jal! ut i god line fs. and adorn the gofpel of God ourSaviour !Another blelling is viflory^over death. This *alfo is th'. fruit of that once detefted, but now ever bbeloved tree. For rhu.vit is written, That, throughdeath, he might dtftroy him that had the povaer ofdeath that is the devil: and deliver them vjhot |through pear of death, were all their life-time Jub- ?jefi to ■bondage. The devil is faid to have the pow¬er of death; becaufe, by tempting too luccefsfully |jou; firli parents, he brought death into the world;becaule, by tempting their pofterity to fin, and too _ Ioften prevailing, he arrays death in horror; he armsdeath with ns lling. but Chrift by expiating ourguilt, has difarmed this laft enemy; has taken awayits fting ; ar u made it not lo(s, but gain to die,— 1The gay, ana the healthy, know not how to formah eftimate or this deliverancet nor can any wordsof mine deferibe it wkh^proper energy. Go to dy-^ ing beds; there you will learn its true worth. Aikfome agonizing friend; he, and he alone, can tellyou. what a bleffing it is, to have the king of ter¬rors converted into a meflenger of peace.One blefling more I would mention, and earneft-ly wifh it, in due time to all my hearers; an en¬trance into heaven. This too is the produce of ourRedeemer’s Crofs. St John law a bright aflerablyot happy beings, clothed with wnite robes, and jpalms ' *Vnthe CHRISTIAN’S Glory, ypalms in their hands, rejoicing before the throneof God. Thefe, faid one of the venerable elders,are they who came out of great tribulation, andhave wafted their robes, and made them white inthe blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they her! fore the throne.—They came out of great tribula¬tion : They fuffered, it is probable, in the fervice ofChrifc: perhaps they laid down their lives for hislake. But this was nof their paffport in the regionsof blifs. They wafted their robes in the blood ofthe Lamb : they had applied to their own fouls themerit and atonement of the crucified Jefus. By this; 1 means they were prefented without fpot and blame-11 lefs; on this account they were admitted to fee theting of heaven in his beauty! and to be ever, evervith the Lord.Since then the Crofs of Chrift was demonflrativeif fuch ftupenduous love ; lince it is produ&ive oflentfits innumerable, invaluable and eternal; was -here not a caufe for the apoftle to glory on thistehalf? Nay, might not the very ftones have:ried out, to reproach him with infenfibility and in¬gratitude, if he had neglected to glory fn the Croftif Chrift. And fmee this love was (hewed, thefe)enefits were procured, net lor him only, but foris, and for all generations; does not this afford mein opportunity of applying the doftiine to eachparticular hearer ii. Let me addrefs, or rather let me congratulate,aty brethren in the miniftry Though you can¬not controul the laws of nature; though you can¬not fee into the feercts of tuoirity ; you have mefame caufe of glorying with the very chief of theipoflles. A caufe ofgloiying, which that holy manof God efteemed iar above ail lucn miraculous abi-' lines.IO The CROSS o/*CHRIST,lities. You have the Crofs of Chrift, for your ftu-dy, as men; far your hope, as Ghrihians; for yourpreaching, as rainifters* For your ftudy, as men. Here the reafoning fa¬culties may exert themfelves with everiafting im¬provement, and everlafUng delight.—Here we con¬template the wonders, the unparalleled wonders,of a God made man ; dying as a pattern of pati¬ence, as a martyr for truth as an aii-perftft (acri-fke for fin Here the Lo d Jehovah hath fullygranted what his lervant Mohs lb earneftly requaft-ed *, he hath made all his glo;y !o paf» before theaflomfhed eyes of angels and of men.—Here juflicehas fet her moft awful terrors in array; even whilegoodnefs appears, with inexpreffiole lovelinefs, andthe moft attractive beat’ty.—Here truth, more un-fhaken than a rock, takes her immoveable ftand :and mercy tenderer than the mother's tear, yearnswith bowels of everiafting pity.——In a word, theCrofs of Ghtift is a confpicuous theatre, on whichall the divine perfections unite, and harmonize, andfhine forth with tranfcendent luftre.As Chriliiarffc, we have, in the Grefs of Chrift,the richtft provifion for our own fppitual wants.This is a foundation of the fublimeft hope, and afountain of the molt exuberant joy : this affordsmatter for the deepeft humility, and yields fuel forthe moft flaming love. Faith in our crucified Jefusis an ever-aCtive principle of the mofl chearful and jexaCt obedience: is an ample and inexhauftablemagazine, from which we may fetch arms to con¬quer, abfblutely conquer the allurements of the 1world, the fbliicitations of the flelh, arid the temp- Itations of the devil. By this a way is opened for ■'us into the Holy of Holies: and what may we notventure to afk, what may we not cxpeCt to receive, Iwho Ithe CHRISTIAN’S Glory. 11who have the blood of the everiafiing covenant toplead in all our approaches to the throne of graced— Having therefore fnch an high prieft; having, inhisCiofs unfearchable riches; who fitall make Curglorying void t what (hall hinder us from rejoicingand faying, Blefled be God for thele opening beau¬ties of fpring! Bkfled be God for the expetted fruitsof autunnj! Blefled be God for ten thoufand thou*(and gifts of his indulgent providence ! but aboveall, bl< (Ted be God for the Croft of Chrift 1i\s minifters of the gofpel, we are not left to fetbefore oar hearers a fyfttm of refined heatheniftn ;or to entertain theni with cold, fpiritleft leftures ofvirtue !no ; we have the infinitely tender love,the immenfely free grace, of the bleed in,,, dyingI Immanuel, to difplay, to.irnprove, to enforce. Andis there a topic in the whole compafs of oratory, isJthere an argument amidft all the ftoies of reafon,iijfo admirably calculated to touch the fineft move-'jments of the foul ? to (hike ail the inmoft fpringsI of adtion, with the moft perfuafive, the moft com-timanding energy ? Would we alarm the fupine,;for intimidate the prefumptuous ? we may call themcto behold God’s own Son weltering in brood, God’stown Son transfixed with the arrows of juftice: wemay bid them confider, if judgment begins withthe immaculate Mediator, where (hall the irreclaim-ible fmner appear ? how will he efcape the ftroke ?low bear the weight of God’s everiafiing vtnge-uice ?—Would we comfort the diftrefled ? we mayIioint them to an atonement, whofe merits are infi-rite, and able to five to the very uttermoft: wea y lead them to a rtghteoufnefs, whole efficacy ismbounded, and fufficient to juftify the ungodly.\nd what balm can be fo (bvereign for a wounded:onfcience ? Are we to fuppori the weak, andanimate12 The CROSS of CHR 1ST,animate the doubting ? here we may {hew thempromifes, free promites, exceedifig great and preci¬ous promifes, ratified by the oath of Jehovah, andfealed by the blood of his Son. And what cor¬dials can be fo reftorative to the drooping Chri-ftian ?In (liort, the do£hine of the Crofs is fuited toanfwer all the great ends of our miniftry, and pro- jmote all the truly valuable interefis of our people.By this the Holy Spirit delights to work : and this/O Satan, Jhall be thy plague } thh, O Sin, /hall bethy dcjtruttion. However, therefore, the Grofsmight be to the Jews a Humbling l^ock, and to theGreeks foolilhnels; God forbid that we {hould gio- Iry in any thing elfe !—Let this be the Alpha andOmega, the beginning and ending, of all our pu¬blic miniflrations. Let us leave a favour of thisknowledge, which is far better than precious oint- |ment, in every private company. Let it appear, 'from all our converfation, that the affefb'ons of our |heart, and the labours of our life, are devoted, iwholly devoted, to our adored Redeemer’s Croft.—- «'Happy the people who are under the care of fuch jminifiers ? and blefled the minifiers who walk ac- |cording to this rule ! j2. Let me exhort all true believers ; thofe who ^are vile in their own eyes, and to whom Chrift a-1lone is precious. Remember, brethren, what isjwritten in the prophet : it is a deferiptibn ofyour Hate ; it is a direttion for your condutt. In\the Lord, the Lord Jefus Chrift, Shall all the feed.of 1/rael be juftified, and in him /hall they glory.Let none fay that religion is a gloomy or un-Jcomfortable ftatc ; I cull upon you this day to re¬joice. Let none fay that religion is a mean anddetpicable thing ; I call upon you this day to glo¬ry: rthe CHRISTIAN’S Glory. 13jry: and have the divine authority for both. Youwill difhonour the blefled Jefus, you will difparagfehis (iirpaffing excellency, if you do not confide inhim, and make your boafl: of him. Chrift is Kingof heaven, Chrift is Judge of the world, Ghrift isGod over all. And of fuch a Savi jr fliall we notgtory ? Yes, verily; and in all circumftances, andon every occafion.Amidft your manifold infirmities, glory in Chrift,For, though he was crucified in weaknefs, he hathall power in heaven and earth And it is writtenbefore him, it is one of his immutable decrees, Sin/hall not have dominion over you. Amidft yourvarious failings, glory in Ghrift For his righteoufcnefs covers all your imperfections, his righteoufcnefs lecures you from wrath and condemnation jand, though deficient in yourfeives, you are com¬plete in him. Under the prefture of tribulations,lift up your heads, and glory in the Crofs : becaufethe Captain of your falvation, was made perfeftthrough fufferings. If you fuffer with him, youfhall alfo reign with him. And the fufFerings ofthis prefent time are not worthy to be comparedwith the happinefs which Ghrift hath purchafedwith his agonies, and will quickly beftow on hispeople,— When death approaches, death that cutsoff the fpirit of princes, and is terrible among thekings of the earth ; do you ftill glory in the Crofs.Adhering to this banner, you may boldly and tri¬umphantly fay, 0 death, where is thy fling ? t?grave, where is thy viftory ? When that greattremenduoHs day fhail come, which puts an end totime and terreftrial things; when that awful, thatmajeftic voice is heard, which commands all therace of Adam to appear at the bar; then, my dearbrethren in Ghrift, then alfo (hall you glory in theGrofs.14 The CROSS of CHRIST,Oofs. When others, in an agony of terror, callupon rocks to fall on them, and mountains to over- .whelm them ; this thall be your fedite appeal; ra- -ther, this (hall be your heroic challenge; Who fhall 'lay any thing to the charge of God’* eleSl ? It is Godthat juflifisth ; who is he that condemneih ? it isChrifl that died —Then (hall you enter the harbourof eternal reft ; not like a (hipwrecked mariner,cleaving to fome broken plank, and hardly efcap-ing the raging waves; but like fome (lately velfelwith ail her (ails expanded, and riding before a profperous gsle.3. Let !rae caution the (elf-righteous : thole whomore frequently think of their own piety than ofGhrift’s obedience; are more apt to cry out, with ithe Vhanke, I am no extortioner no adulterer; than jto confefs with the Pubitcan, God be merciful to me Ia /inner. What fhall I (ay to theft- perlbns? Let .me not be thought cenfbrious, when my only aimis to be faithful. Beware, I beftech you, left youbuild for eternity, not on a rock, but on the (and.However you may appear in your own fight, be¬fore the adorable Majefty of the everlafting God, |before the confummare perfection of his holy Lw, 5you are lefs than nothing, you re worfe than no- Jthing: you are indeed, you are deficiency and fin. SRenounce, therefore, renounce aft dependance on ||ftlf. Truft no longer in a refuge of lies ; left all |your admired attainments, at the day of final r tri- jbutton, be like draw, and hay, and ftubble, in Ne¬buchadnezzar’s burning fiery furnace.—Imitate theblcfted penman of my text. Are you blameiefs inyour external carriage ? fo was he Are you ex- jamplary in many points? fo was he. Yet ad this, jrighteounefs he accounted dungy for'the excellency jof the knowledge of Chrijl Jejus his Lord.—Be thisthe CHRISTIAN’S Glory, i;your patrern. Write emptinefs upon your ownduties, emptinefs upon your own works ; and youfhall be filled with all .the fulnefs of God your Sa¬viour. Every other caufe of glorying, v/iH'^c hkethe morning cloud, or the early dew, whkVi paffethaw?y: but this caufe of glorying will f} ind fad forevermore, as the moon, and as the faithful witnefsin heaven. . 'Can I conclude, without adding a word of ad-monition to the wicked? thofe, I mean, who areenemies to the Crofs of Chrift; who mind earthlythings, but neither hunger nor tb'uft after righte-oufnefs.—My foul remembers the wormwood andthe gall of fuch a ftate, and cannot but tenderlypity thefe unhappy people. Alas ! my friends,•what have you to glory in ? The devil and his an¬gels expett ere long to glory in your deftru&ton.Thofe malignant fiends are eyeing you as theirprey, and are impatient to begin your torment.Great, inexpreffibly great is your danger; the LordAlmighty open your eyes to dtfcern it.——Ncverthe-lefs, your calc is not defperate. You may yet be deli¬vered, as a bird out of the fnare of the fowler. Lookunto the crucified Jefus. Why does he hang on thatbloody tree? Why are his hands pierced with iron?Why is his body racked with pain? Why his hearttorn with anguifh ?- -It is for you, finners, for you.That blood is poured out, to cleanfe you fromguilt; thofe wounds are fuflained, to heal your con-'ciences; that anguifh is endured, to obtain reft forour foul.-—In that mangled body dwells all therulnefs of the Godhead. Great, beyond imagination,real is the merit of thofe fufferings. Why then,' ! why will you die ? Why will you perifh for ever,ho have an all fufficient propitiation in the Grolsf Chrift ? Fly to this Anftuary : fly, before it be* too16 The CROSS ofOHRIST, &c.?oo late : fly without a moment’s delay. It is aninviolable fanttuary. None ever perilhed that fledby faith to the compaffionate, the divinely compaf-fionate Redeemer.-—His death fliall be a full latisfac-tion for your iniquities. A fenfe of his immenlelyrich goodnefs (hall win your affe&ions; foall in-clinr, (what all the threatenings of damnation couldnever tffecl:) lhall fmooth your path, and expediteyour progrefs/ to the regions of immortal honourand joy. *Having now, with great plainnefs of fpeech, ad-dreflfed my brethren in the miniftry; having ex¬horted believers, cautioned the lelf-righteous, andwarned the wicked; let me commend the whole toyour (erious recolle£tion, and to God’s gracious be-nedi&ion.—• And, O Lord moft holy ! O God moftmighty! O holy and merciful Saviour ! by thineagony and b'oody fweat-—by thy Crols and pafllon— let not the word now fpoken be in vain in theLord ! Amen, and Amen.FINIS.* *nb CLJ> (Tjb