Laugh and grow Fat!en, THE COMICALBUDGET OF WIT.A Selection ofCHOICE BON MO'.rs,v jrish Blunders, Repartees, Am xdotes,Caie to our coffins adds a nad, no doubt,While every laugh, so merry, draws one out.STIRLING:PRINTED BY WII LIAM MACNlI,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.1828.X,au| and be Fat!OR, THEBUDGET OF WIT.A. Gentlem; m recently married, was enjoying,with his fair one, an evening walk alongthe beach at I Musselburgh. That moment a ves¬sel had left th 3 harbour, bound for a foreign port:‘ Pray, my clear, says the lady, what is the dif¬ference between exported and transported.’—Were you, my love, .returned the gentleman,a board that: vessel,:you would be exported, andI would bo transported.A London lady was on a visit to a friend inEdinburgh, who Was at great pains to point outto her all the deligfhtful prospects Of that roman¬tic city; The stranger, assuming an air of con¬sequence, generally answered. e ’Tis very wella Scotch view't* One delightful evening,walking along Queen Street, while the autumnalmoon shone with an uncommon lustre, her friendeould not help expressing her admiration of yh&resplendent orb of night, when the Cockney drilyRemarked, ‘ It is very well for a Scotch meon !’Two English gentlemen, some time ago, visit-cd the field of Bannockburn, so celebrated for thetotal defeat of the English array, by iiobert theBruce, with an army of Scotch heroes, not onefourth their number;—A sensible countrymanpointed out the. positions of both armies, thestone, "where the Bruce’s standard was fixed dur¬ing the battle, &c. Highly satisfied with his at¬tention, the gentleman, on leaving him, pressed1 his acceptance of a crown-piece:—‘ Na, na,’ saidthe honest man, returning the money, ‘ keepyour crown-piece, the English had paid dear en¬ough already for seeing the field of Bannockburn.’In a party of ladies, on it being reported thata Captain SilkBad arrived in town, they exclaim¬ed, with one exception, ‘ What a name for asoldier !’ ‘ The fittest name in the world,’ re-l joined a witty female, ‘ for Silk never can beWorsted !’[Some time since, at one of. our sea-ports, anoble naval commander, who is a strict disciplin¬arian accosted a drunken sailor in the street,with ‘ W hat ship do you belong to ?’ Jack, whowas a dry fellow, notwithstanding he was drunk,and had a very eccentric countenance, answeredtwith much sang frbld, ‘ Don’t know.’i!your captain s namei.know who S am ?’Imander in chief.’you have a d I know !’5 What’s?’ ‘ Don’t know.’ ‘ Do you5 No.’ ‘ Why I am com-‘ Then,’ replied he archly,d good birth of it, that’s ellHugh Arnot happening to come into Mr.! Creech s shop one clay, when an old woman was4finding fault with the printing and paper of aBible she was about to purchase, looked over hershoulder and said, that ‘ both were good enoughfor the subject.’—‘ O ye monster!’ exclaimed thewoman; then turning round and observing bismiserably meagure figure, added, ‘ And he’s aaanatomy too!’A West Indian, who had a remiykable fierynose, having fallen asleep in his chair, a tiegroboy who was in waiting, observed a muscjuittahovering round his face. Quashieyed the insectvery attentively ; at last he saw him alight on hismaster’s nose, and immediately fly off. ‘ Ah,d—« your heart,’ exclaimed the negro, ‘ Med—n glad see you burn your foot.’Sotne differenoe lately occurred between acorps of Volunteers and their Commandknt. Theregiment wa* ordered to appear before the in¬specting General, and the Colonel of course gave \the word of command, ‘ .Attention N—Shoulderarms!’ not a muscle nor a musket moved. Thecommand was repeated ia a louder voice; thecorps was still motionless. The general muchsurprised, beckoned to a sergeant, and asked,Why the corps refused to act ? An’t plaise yourhonour, says Pat, making the due obeisance, itis becays the Colonel and the regiment are n«rton spaiking terms.During the high prise of coals, a gentlemanmeeting his coal merchant, inquired whether itwas proper to lay in a stock. The knight of theblack diamond snook his head, observing, Coals5are coals now, Sir! To which his customer re¬plied, ‘ I’m very glad to hear it, for the last yousent me were all slates.’A gentleman having occasion to call for Mr.Joseph G n, writer, found him at home inhis writing chamber. He remarked the greatheat of the apartment, and said, ‘ It was as hotas an oven.’ ‘ So it ought,’ replied Mr G.* for it is here I make my bread.’dG!dThe late well known Sandy Wood, surgeon inEdinburgh, was walking through the streets oftohat city during the time of an illumination, whenhe observed a young rascal, not above 12 yearsof age, breaking every window he could reach,with as much industry as if he had been doingthe most commendable action in the world. En¬raged at this mischievous disposition, Sandy seiz¬ed him by the collar, and asked him what hemeant by thus destroying the honest people’swindows ? Why, it’s all for the good of trade,replied the young urchin, I am a glazier. All forthe good of trade, is it ? said Sandy, raising hiscane, and breaking the boy’s head, There, then,that’s for the good of my trade—I am a surgeon.Barrymore happening to come late at the tliea-t tre, and having to dress for his part, was drivento the last moment, when, -to heighten his per¬plexity, the key of his drawer was amissing.—‘ D—n it,’ said he, ‘ I must have swallowed it.’‘ Never mind,’ says Jack Bannister, ‘ if you! have, it will serve to open your chest.’Mr. Curran being retained against a young offi-6cer, who WV.s indicted for a very gross assault,opened the case in the following manner :—MyLord, I am counsel for the crown ; and I.am firstto acquaint your Lordship, that this soldier.—Nay, Sir, says the military hero, I would haveyou know, Sir, I am an officer.—0 Sir, I begyour pardon, says the Counsellor, very drily ;Why then, my Lord, to speak more correctly,this officer, who is no soldier.Charles Fox, in a Westminster election, hav¬ing applied to a shopkeeper for his vote and in¬terest, the^nan produced a halter1, with which hesaid he was ready to oblige him. Mr. Foxthanked him for his kindness, but said he wouldby no means deprive him of it, as he presumedit was a family-piece.An old bawd being carried before the late Jus-tice Bond, for keeping a disorderly bouse; strong¬ly denied all that was charged against her. Housewife ! housewife ! said the Justice, howhare you the assurance to deny it P You do keepa bawdy-house, and I will maintain it. Willyou, replied the old bawd: the Lord bless you !I always took you to be a kind-hearted gentle¬man.Some time ago a member of Parliament appliedto tire Post-office, to know why some of hisfranks had been charged. The answer was,—we suppose, Sir, they were not of your writing.The hand is not the same. Why, not preciselythe spme ; but the truth is, I happened to be alittle tipsy when I wrote them. Then, Sir, willf -7you ba so good in future as to write drunk, whenyou mttke free.A young lady going into a barrack-room atFort George, saw an officer toasting a slice ofbread on the point of his sword. On which sheexclaimed, I think, Sir, you have got the staff oflife on the point of death.A physician seeing Charles Bannister about tddrink a glass of brandy, said, Dqn’t drink thatfilthy stuff; brandy is tire worst enemy you have.I know that, replied Charles, but you know, weare commanded by scripture to love our enemies.Dean Jaskson passing one morning throughChrist-Church quadrangle, met some under gra¬duates, who walked along without capping. TheDean called one of them, and asked, Do youknow who I am ? No, Sir, How long have youbeen in College? Eight days, Sir.' Oh, verywell, said the Dean, walking away, puppies don’topen their eyas till the ninth day.Whilst the immortal Garrick was one nightperforming the part of Hamlet, a character inwhich that inimitable actor displayed an exquisiteknowledge of nature, and when he was arrivedat one of the most affecting scenes in that tragedythe audience all mute attention,—when even apin might have been heard falling to the ground,all at once, to the astonishment of the spectators,Garrick was seen to burst out into a violent fit oflaughter, and run suddenly off the stage: In amoment all the players folkwed him. The audi-8encc, amazed at the strangeness of this conduct,cast their eyes around every corner of the house,when they immediately discovered the cause ofGarrick’s merriment. A jolly round faced but¬cher was seated in front of one of the high boxes,wiping his bald pate, from which the sweat flow¬ed in copious streams ! his sagacious mastiff', nodoubt eager to enjoy, as well as his master, theadmirable performance of the Prince of Trage¬dians, had placed his fore feet upon the front ofthe butcher’s box, and was looking eagerly downupon the stage, with his grave phiz dignified byhis master’s full-bottom’d wig ! The audiencefound it impossible to restrain their gravity at thisludicrous sight. The loudest peals of laughterburst from the pit, the boxes, and the gallaries;and it w as a great time ere the performers couldagain resume the gravity necessary for perform¬ing a tragedy so deeply interesting.Soon atter Dr. Johnson’s return from Scotlandto London, a Scottish lady, at whose house hew'as, as a compliment, ordered some hotch-potchfor his dinner. After the Doctor had tasted it,she asked him if it was good ?—To which he re¬plied, very good for hogs ?—Then, pray, saidthe lady, let me help you to a little more.The clergyman of a village, a few miles southof Edinburgh, (which is almost entirely sur¬rounded by colliers,) being one day engaged inexamining his parishioners on the principles ofthe Christian religion, and finding them extreme¬ly deficient in their knowledge of these divinetruths, felt it his duty to display, in pretty strongterms, the punishment that awaited the wickedin a future world; observing, that they wouldbe cast into a place of utter dhrkness, where therewould be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing ofteeth. Let them gnash that have teeth, cries anold woman in a corner of the church ; for mypart, I have had none these thirty years.Donald M£Gregor, a notorious sheep-lifter(alias sheep-stealer,) in the north Highlands, be¬ing at last overtaken by the grim tyrant of tliehuman race, was visited by the minister of theparish, whose appearance, however, was by nomeans agreeable to Donald. The holy manwarmly exhorted the dying Highlander to refleetupon the long and black catalogue of his sins,before it was too late, otherwise he would havea tremendous account to give at the great day ofretribution, when all the crimes he had committedin this world would appear in dreadful array, asevidence of his guilt.—Och ! Sir, cries the dyingi man, and will a’ the sheeps, the cows, and ilka[thing Donald has helped herself to be there;.I Undoubtedly, replied the parson. Then litI ilka shentleman tak' her nain, and Donald willjfee an honest man again.George the second being once at a masquer-fe, he observed Miss Chudleigh in a habit whichery closely bordered upon the naked; ‘ My dearady," said the good natured monarch, ‘ Sufferi me to put my hand upon that soft bosom.’—Sire,’ said she, ‘ give me your hand, and I willnut it on a much softer place.’ She took hisgight hand, and put it on his fore-head.10R. Palmer meeting Lady Derby some timesince, and having acted with her for many yearsin theatres, barns, and stables, be thought it novast presumption to ask her Ladyship how shedid. The Countess, raising her eye-glass, look¬ed doubtful a few moments, and at last lispedout, ‘ Mr. Palmer, if I mistake not.’ 4 I amsorry you have lost your eyes by star-gazing,’said Bob, contemptuously, and walked on.Quin being one day in a coffee-house, saw ayoung beau enter, in an elegant negligee dress,quite languid with the heat of the day. ‘ Wait¬er !’ said the coxcomb, in an affected faint voice,4 waiter, fetch me a dish of coffee, weak as water, :and cool as a zephyer !’ Quin, in a voice of thun¬der, immediately vociferated, 4 Waiter, bring mea dish of coffee, hot as h-11, and strong as d—m- jn—n !’ The beau starting, exclaimed, 4 Waiter,what is that gentleman’s name ?’ Quin, in hisusual tremendous tone, exclaimed,4 Waiter, praywhat is that lady’s name ?’A Highlander was visited on his death-bed byhis clergyman, who exhorted Donald to preparefor another world, by a sincere repentance of allthe crimes he had committed on earth ; and ear¬nestly urged the absolute necessity of forgivinghis enemies. Donald shrugged up his shouldersat this hard request; yet he at last agreed toforgive every person who had injured him,except one, who had long been the Highlander smortal foe, and of whom Donald hoped the par¬son would make an exception. The holy man,however, insisted so much on this point, that11Donald at last said, ‘ Weel, weel, Sir, since therebe no help for it, Donald maun e’en forgi’e her,but,’ turning to his two sons, * may G—d d—n ,you, Duncan and ilory, if you forgie her.’A cleryman chose for his text the followingwords : ‘ Which of you will go up with me toRamoth-Gilead ?’ Then pausing, he again andagain repeated the words; when a gallant tarstarted from his seat, and looking round hiip,with an eye of indignation, he exclaimed, “ willnone of you go with the worthy gentleman ? Asfor my part, I go for one !”The Laird of M‘Nab was writting to one ofhis friends from an Edinburgh Coffee-house,when a gentleman of his acquaintance observed,that he was sitting at defiance the laws of ortho¬graphy and grammar. ‘ D—n your blood !’ ex¬claimed the Highland chieftain, ‘ how can a manwrite grammar with a pen like this ?’A young woman of Dublin, apprehensive ofsome unhappy effects from an inflict amour, whichshe had for some time carried on with a Dutchsailor, mentioned her situation to a friend, whoadvised her to place her future offspring to heryoung master, as being the richer man of thetwo. ‘ I was thinking of that,’ replied the fairone, ‘ but then you know the child will discoverall when it begins to speak Dutch.’About the year thretty-sax, a company differ¬ed, ‘ Whether it was better for a man to haesons or doughters.’ They cou’d na gree, but12Ntliaputed it pro and con. At last, one of themsaid to Graliam of Kinross, (wha hadna yokedwi’ them in the argument,) ‘ Laird, what’s youropinion ?’ Quo’ he, ‘ I hae had tliree lads andthree lasses; I watna whilk o’ them I liked bestsae lang as they suckit their mither; but de’ilhae my share o’ the callants, when they came tosuck their father.A tar having gone into the pit of Drury lanetheatres, recogui ed one of his messmates aloft,among the gods: 4 Pray, Jack, what did it costyou to get into that d—n’d snug birth ?’ Onbeing informed that he gave only a shilling:—‘ D—mme, this is fine business, I gave five shil¬lings to get stowed into this here hold.A Highlander having gone with his master intothe church of Notre-Dame at Paris, to hear highmass, was very much delighted with the magni¬ficence of the edifice, the splendour of the clergy- 5men’s dresses, and the divine harmony of the !music. On leaving church, his master asked himhow he liked the performance ? ‘ Oh, Sir, ’twaswondrous fine,’ replied Donald, ‘ God is servedhere like a shentleman; but in my country (withreverence be it spoken,) he is treated little betterthan a scoundrel.’*An Irishman, some time ago, attending theUniversity of Glasgow, waited upon one of themost celebrated teachers of tha German flute, ,desiring to know on what terms he would givehim a few lessens: the flute player informed him,that he generally charged two guineas for theF*■a13first month, and one guinea for the second.—‘ Then, by my soul,’ replied the Hibernian, ‘ I'llcome the second month.1vA countryman sowing his ground, two smartfellows riding that way, one of them called tohim with an insolent air, ‘ Well, hottest fellow,’said he, ‘ ’tis your business to sow, but we reapthe fruits of your labour.’ To which the coun¬tryman replied, ‘1 Tis very likely you may forI am sowing hemp.'A country fellow, just come up to London,and peeping into every shop he passed by, atlast looked into a scrivener’s : where seeing onlyone man sitting at a desk, could not imagine whatwas sold there; and calling to the clerk, said.Pray, sir, what do you sell ? Loggerheads, criedthe other. Do you so ?" said the countryman ;truly, you have a special trade then, for I seeyou have but one left.Two gentlemen standing together, as a younglady passed them, one of them said, there goesthe handsomest women I ever saw. She hear¬ing, turned back, and observing him to be veryugly, answered, I wish, Sir, I could, in return,say as much of you. So you may, Madam, sayshe, and lie as I did.On a trial at the Admirality Session for shoot¬ing a reaman, the counsel for the crown askingone of the witnesses, which he was for, plaintiffor defendant. Plaintiff or defendant ? said thesailor, scratching his head, w hy, I don’t knowuwhat you mean by plaintiff or defendant, I cometo speak for that there ! pointing to the prisoner.You are a pretty fellow for a witness, says thecounsel, not to know what plaintiff or defendantmeans ! Some time after, being asked by thesame counsel, what part of the ship he was in at Ithe time ? Abaft the binnacle, my lord, says thesailor. Abaft the binnacle ! replied the barrister,what part of the ship is that ? Ha f ha ! ha !chuckled tire sailor, are not you a pretty fellowof a counsellor, pointing to him archly with hisfinger, not to know where abaft the binnacle is! 'A clergyman, who wished to know whetherthe children of the parishioners understood their >bibles, asked a lad that he one day found read¬ing the Old Testament, who was the wicked- iest man ? Moses, to be sure, said the boy.—■Moses, exclaimed the parson, Moses ! how can .that be ? Why, said the lad, he broke all thecommandments at onwe !A little lawyer appearing as evidence in oneof the courts, was asked by a gigantic counsellor,what profession he was of ; and having replied,that he was an attorney. You a lawyer ! saidBrief, why I could put you in my pocket. Verylikely you may, rejoined the other, and if youdo, you will have more law in your pocket thanin your head.Colonel M , of the P shine cavalry,was lately complaining, that, from the ignorance ,and inattention of his officers, he was obliged todo the whole duty of the regiment. I am, said, *15, he, my own captain, my own lieutenant, my ownj i cornet,—and trumpeter also, I presume, said ay certain witty duchess.When Mr. Fox was canvassing for Westmin¬ster, he called on a butcher in St. James’ market,to solicit his vote. The knight of the cleaver,without ceremony, thus answered his applica¬tion : Sir, I admire, your head, but damn yourheart! to which Mr. Fox replied, Sir, I admireyour candour, but damn your manners !7/">JA learned Scottish lawyer being just called tothe Bench, sent for the peruke-maker to measurehim for a new tye-wig. The peruquier, on ap¬plying his apparatus in one direction, was ob¬served to smile. Upon which the worthy judgedesired to know what ludicrous circumstancegave rise to his mirth ? The barber replied, thathe could not but remark the extreme length ofhis honour’s head. That's well, said Lord S.we lawyers have occasion for long heads ! Thebarber, who by this time had completed the di¬mensions, now burst out into a fit of laughter ;and an explanation being insisted on, at last de¬clared, that he could not possibly contain him¬self, when he discovered that his Lordship’s headwas just as thick as it was long !A certain Bishop had a Biscayan man-servant,whom he ordered one festival to go to a butcher,who was called David, for a piece of meat, andthen come to the church, where the Bishop wasto preach. The Bishop, in his sermon, bringingauthorities from the Scripture in this manner ;Isaiah says thus; Jeremiah says thus; at last,happening to turn towards the door as the ser¬vant came in, went on. And what says David?Upon which the Biscayan roared out, He swearsto God, that if you do not pay your old bill youneed never send to his shop again.A charitable Divine, for the benefit of thecountry where he resided, caused a causeway tobe begun; and as he was one day overlookingthe workmen, a certain nobleman passing by,said to him, well, Doctor, for all your painsand charity, J don’t take this to be the highwayto heaven, Very true, replied the Doctor, forif it had, I should have wondered to have seen-your Lordship here.A dignified clergyman, going down to spendthe summer, met near his house a comical oldchimney-sweeper, with whom he used to chat.So, John, says the Doctor, from whence cameyou? From your house, says Mr. Soot; forthis morning I have swept all your chimnies.-—How many were there? says the Doctor; No lessthan twenty, quoth John. Well, and how mucha chimney have you? Only a shilling a-piece,,;Sir. Why then, quoth the Doctor, you haveearned a great deal of money in a little time.—Yes, yes, Sir, says John, throwing his bag ofsoot over his shoulder, we black coats get ourmoney easy enough.A countryman going into the office of theCommons where the wills are kept, and gazing-on the huge volumes on the shelves, asked if17I these were all bibles ? No, Sir, answered one< of the clerks, they are testaments.A countryman very much marked with theii small pox, applied to a justice of peace for re-dress in an affair where one of his neighbours hadill-treated him; but not explaining the businessq so clearly as the justice expected, Fellow, said he,j in a rage, I don’t know whether you were inoc-! ulated for the small pox or not, but I am sure} you have been for stupidity. Why, an’t please311| you, replied the man, perhaps I might, £s youri say, be inoculated for stupidity; but there wasal no occasion to perform that on your worship, forcl you seem to have 'had it in the natural way.Two country attornies,overtaking a waggon-|er on the road, and thinking to be witty uponhim, asked, why his fore horse was so fat, andmhe rest so lean ? The waggoner knowing them,[answered, that his fore horse was a lawyer, andcthe r st were his clients.. An Iiashman, a short time since, bade an ex-iijtraordinary price for an alarm clock, and gave asreason, that, as he loved to rise early, he hadmow nothing to do but pull the string, and hejwould wake himself.A countryman, at Burry assizes, was indictedand arraigned for stealing a goose; but the ae-5 :m sat ion was false, for he brought a neighbour: Sf his, who sware positively, that he rememberedwhat very goose in his possession ever since it was.p gosling. An Irishman, who was a prisoner forstealing a gv' ! 1 is successful defence,prevailed on a fellow countryman of bis, to swearthat he rpaiembered tb-; gun in his possessionever since it w.s a pistolWhen the • • ! beau Nash was ill, Dr.Cheyne wr te a preset.i; >n for him. The nextday, the j loc:.*r . to see his patient, in¬quired if ie hod foliov • 1 his prescription ? Nofaith, said Nash, if I had I should have brokemy neck, fur I threw it out of a two pair of stairs’window.. *An Irish gentleman was visited by a friend,who found buTt a little ruffled ; and being askedthe reason it, said, he had lost a new pair ofblack silk stockings ut of his room, that hadcost him eighteen shillings ; but that he hopedhe should get them again, for that he had orderedthem to he cried, and had offered half-a-crownof reward. The gentleman, observed, that thereward was far too little for such valuable stock- ,ings. Pbo, satd the Irish gentleman, I ordered 1the cryer to say the were worsted. 1One saying to another, you speak foolishly,he answered, It is that you may understand me,®i* ■'llA military officer of diminutive stature, wasdrilling a tall Irish recruit. Hold up your head,said the officer, elivating the chin of the Irish¬man with the end of his cane, to an angle ofnearly forty degrees, hold up your head so.—1And must I always do so, captain ? asked the re¬cruit. Yes, always, answered the officer. Theii.19i fare you well, my dear little fellow, rejoinedPaddy, for I shall never see you more.A countryman seeing a lady in the street ina very odd dress, as he thought begged of herto tell him what she called it. The lady, a lit¬tle surprised at the question, called him an im¬pertinent fellow. Nay, I hope no offence, ma-lam, said Hodge, I am a poor countryman, justoing out of town, and my wife always expects*should bring her an account of the newest fash-fijion, which occasioned my inquiring what youlicall this that you wear.—It is a sack, said she, in15a great pet. I have heard, said the countryman,of a pig in a poke, but I never before saw a sowm a sack.A soldier being to be sent on the late Spanishexpedition, said to the officer directing the drafts,sir, I cannot go because I—I—stut-ter.—Stut-! says the officer, you don’t go to talk but toight.—Ay, but they’ll p-p-put me on g-g-guard,and a man may go ha-ha-half a mile, before Icansay.wh-who-whothere ? Oh, that’so objection, for there will be another sentrylaced along with you, and he can challenge ifou can fire.—Well b-b-but I may be taken, andr f-un through the g-g-guis, before I can cry qu~) ju-quarter,i An Irishman, telling bis friend, that passingalong the street, he saw a person on the other} iide, with whom he thought he was acquainted,;aid, I crossed to see him, I thought I knew him,tnd he thought he knew me; but by Jasus, my' Money, it was neither one nor t’other of us.20A preacher in Arabia having for his text aportion of the Koran, I have called Noah, aftertwice repeating his text, made a long pause: anArab then present, thinking that he was waitingfor an answer, exclaimed, If Noah will not come,what hinders you from calling somebody else.Two Oxford scholars meeting on the road witha Yorkshire ostler, they fell to bantering him,and told the fellow that they would prove himto be a horse or an ass. Well, said the ostler,and I can prowe your saddle to be a mule. Amule! cried one of them, how can that be PBecause, said the ostler, it is something betweena horse and an ass.A culprit asked Jack Ketch if he had any com¬mands to the other world ? Why, said Jack, notmany; I’ll tmly, added he, as he adjusted theknot under his left ear, just trouble you with aline.A parson in the country, taking his text in St.Matthew', chap. viii. verse 14. And Peter’swife’s mother was sick of a fever, preached forthree Sundays together on the same subject.—Soon after two fellows going across the church¬yard, and hearing the bell toll, one asked theother w ho it was for ? Nay, I can’t tell; per¬haps, replied he, It is for Peter’s wife's mother,for she has been sick of a fever these three weeks.A gentleman lying on his death-bed, called tohis coachman, who had been an old servant, andsaid, Ah, Tom, I am going a long and rugged21i journey, worse than eyer you drove me. Oh !dear Sir, replied the -fellow, ne’er let that disturbc\ you, for it’s all down hill.Two gentlemen, one named Woodcock, andthe other Fuller, walking together, happened tosee an owl ; says the last, The bird is very like, a Woodcock. You’re very wrong, says the first,for it’s Fuller in the head, Fuller in the eyes,and Faller all over.At a late execution in the Old Bailey, the.hang¬man was blamed for hurrying them.—Och, bei aisy ! says an Irishman, it is mere humanity, forwere they to stand long in the cold they wouldcatch their deaths.An Irish servant being struck by his master,i cried out, Devil take me, if I am certain whe¬ther he has killed me or not, but if I am dead iti will afford me great satisfaction to hear the old:i rogue was hanged for killing me.One Irishman meeting another, asked whati was become of their old acquaintance Patricki Murphy ? Arrah, my dear honey, answered theother, poor paddy was condemned to be hanged,; but he saved his life by dying in prison.An Irishman being asked which was oddest,i or his brother, I am oldest, said he ; but if my: brother lives three years longer we shall be botht of one age.A person asked an Irishman why he wore his22stockings the wrong side outwards ? Because,said he, there is a hole on the other side.An Irishman in the late General Washington^army, being separated from his companions, wasmet by five Hessian soldiers, Pat seeing his dan¬ger, ordered them to surrender.—They, suspect¬ing him to be backed by numbers, immediatelyobeyed. Pat shouldered their arms and marchedthem to the general’s tent, when being askedhow a single man durst encounter five. O byJesus,(my General, I surrounded them 1 Wash¬ington, who was seldom seen to smile, laughedheartily, and promoted him to a halbert.As an Irish Officer, who was severely woundedat the battle of Waterloo, lay on the ground, aforeign soldier, who was near him, also wound¬ed, made a terrible howling; when the officerexclaimed, D—n you sir, what do you make sucha noise for, do you think there’s nobody killedbut yourself !-V ¥Once, at a meeting of ministers, a question ofmoment was started to be debated among them.Upon the first proposal of it, a confident young-man shot his bolt presently. He said. Truly Ihold it so. A grave minister answered, Youhold, sir, it becomes you to hold your peace.. A minister asking a lady in the neighbourhoodof Norwich, whether she knew any thing ofChrist? w*s answered, Yes, sir, 1 rememberthat I once saw bis picture.Lady Huntington once asking a person, if she23[ knew who it was that redeemed her, received11for answer, Yes, madam, I know very well whoit was that redeemed me; it was Pontius Pilate.A gentleman who had engaged an Irish foot¬man in his service, on telling him that morningand evening prayers were observed in the family,he hoped that would not be any objection to him,be replied, No, sir, but I hope you will considerit in my wages.An English gentleman observed to Monsieurde Veine, at Boulogne, that there appeared no-ithiag like religion among the French people, hereplied, nothing at. all. We have no religionamongst us now, but the Convention are aboutto make one ; then we shall do very welLDr, GUI once preaching on human inability,i gentleman present was much offttfided, andnook him to task for degrading human nature.—rtThe doctor said, pray, sir, what do you thinkmen can contribute to their own conversion ?•Me began to enumerate a variety of particulars.Phe doctor said, and have you done all this ?—( Why, no, I can’t say that I have yet; but I hopeit shall begin soon. If you have had these thingsv;. n your power, and have not done them, you de¬serve to he doubly damned.!| Mr. Lawrence, who was a sufferer for non¬conformity, if he would have consulted with fleshknd blood, had eleven arguments against it, viz.v, wife and ten children. Being once asked how: ie meant to maintain them all, he cheerfully re-34plied, they must all live on the sixth of Matthew,—Take no thought of to-morrow.Lady Wallace, celebrated in Scotland for herwit and beauty, happening to be at an assemblyin Edinburgh, a young gentleman, the son of hisMajesty’s printer, who had the patent for pub¬lishing Bibles, made his appearance, dressed ingreen and gold. Being a new face, and extremelyelegant, he attracted the attention of the wholecompany. A general murmur prevailed in theroom, to know what he was P Lady W—*— in¬stantly made answer, loud enough to be heard,Oh, don’t you know him ? It is young Bible,bound in calf, and gilt, but not lettered !Ah Irishman, one day wag walking on thestreets of Belfast, fouod a light Guinea, and got18s. for it; next day he was travelling and see*another, and says, Allelieu dear honey. I’ll havenothing to do with you, for I lost Ss. by yourbrother yesterday.One of the late town’s offioers of Ayr, wasstruct severely by accident on the head by Iiiswife—after the fray was adjusted, the wife saidto her husband, H had I killed you, and Ibeen hanged for it,, would you marry J£ateM‘Lachlan.FINIS.