r\^r\the^LAST SPEECH,S1 AND ji^DYING TESTIMONY,p/ ofthenoble \| Marquifs of Argyle, j^ Who fufFered Martyrdom at the C? Crofs qf Edinburgh, ou the 27th \1 of May 1661, in defence of, and 1in the hononrabE* caufeof, Re- |(~ ligion. < SS ’which it Added, ^V A noble Ep ttaph on the Martyr^^j3p$b, jin the Gray-Friar’s Church-yard in |1 dinburgh; done by a mafterly Hand, in JC Memory of the Martyrs who " ~< in thole dark and gloomy Tin1[This Teftimony^reprinted from theerigi- 1nal Copy in Nephr^li, at the defire of feTeralGentlemen, in memo ry of that noble Martyr.] JEriNBURGH ; Panted in Niddery’s Wynd V[Price, ONE PENNY.] ^( 2 )•The Laft SPEECH of theMARQUISSofARGYLE,"JV/f ANY will expeft that I fpeak many things, andaccording to their feveral opinions and difpofi-tiods fo will their exptYlations be from me and con*ftrmRions of me; but I refolve to dTappoint many,for I come not hither to juftify myfelf but the Lord;•who holy in all His vjays and righteous in all His•works ; holy and blejjedis His name: neither come Ito condemn others. I mow that many will expertI will fpeak againft the hardnefs of the fentencepronounced againft me.* but I will fay nothing to it.I blcfs the Lord, 1 pardon all men, as I defire to bepardoned of the Lord myfelf. Let the will of theLord be done. That is all that I defire.I hope that ye will have more charity to me nowthan ye would have had at an other time, feeing Ifpeak before the Lord, before whom I muft give anaccount vet y fhortly. I l^now very well that mywords have had but very little weight with many;and that many have miftakep my words and a£!ingsboth Many have thought' me to be a great enemyto thefe great works that have of late been broughtto pals : but do not miftake rfie, good people,Ifpeakit in the prefence of the Lord, I entered not uponthe work of Kformation with any defign ef advan» jtage to myfelf, or prejudice to the king and his go-*vernment; as my latter will, which was written in1655. and thereafter delivered to a friend (in whofehands it ftill rerraineth) can fiiow. As for thefe ca¬lumnies that have gone abroad of me, 1 blefs God Iknow them to be no more ; and as I go to make areckoning to my Gsd, I am free as to any of thefe,Concerning the king’s perfon or government. I wasreal and cordial in my defires to bring the kinghome, and in my endeavours for him when he wasat home ; and I had no correfpondence with thjadverfanes army, nor any of them, in the timewhenjus Majefty was in Scotland. Nor had I anyaccc/Tion to his late Majefty’s horrid and execrablemurder, by counfel or knowledge of it. or any o-~ther manner of way This is a truth, as I fhallanfwer to my Judge. And all the time his Majefty|was in Scotland, I was ftill endeavouring his advan¬tage, my confcience beareth me witnefs to it. Somuch to that particular, • And (turning about hefaid) I hope, gentlemen, you will remember thefe.I confefs, many look on my condition as a fufferingcondition; but I blefs the Lord, that he who hathgoae before .«£ nath trod the wine pref, of his Fa-ther’s wrath ; by whofe fufferings I hope that myluffenngs lhall not be eternal. I blefs Him who hathtaken away the fling of my fufferings I muft faythat my charter was fealed to day; for the Lord hathfaid to me, Son, be of good cheer, thy fins are freelyforgiven thee: And fo I hope my Offerings (halt bevery eafy. And ye know the feripture (attb, thevaptain of our falvaticyi was made perfect fcv fuffer-mg.I fhall not fpeak much to thefe things for whichI am condemned, left I feem to condemn othets,-■K s well known it’s only for compliance, which wasthe epidemical fault of the nation .• I wifh the Lofdto pardon them. I fay no more.There was an expreffion in thefe papers prefent-ciby me to the parliament, of the contagion of thefttimes, which may by fame be mifeoni rufted, as if Iamended to lay an imputation upon the work of re¬formation : but I intended no foicU thing, but only'^related to the corruptions and failings of men, oc-cafioned by the prevailing of the ufurping powers.—[At this he turned and took them all witnefles.]Now, gentlemen, concerning the nation, I thinkthere are three forts of people that take up much ofthe world, and of thk nation ; there is, i, the openlyprophane t and truely I may fay, though I have beena prifoner, I have not had my ears {hut; I hear af-|furedly that drinking, fwearing.and whoring, were'never more common, never more countenanced^than now thfey are- Truly if magiftiates were herf’JI would fay to them, if they lay forth their power)',for glorifying of God, by reftraining this, theywould fare the better; if they continue in not re-‘draining, they fhali fare the worfe : I fay no more,but either let people Ihun prophanity and magiftrates«reftraiu it, or affuredly the wrath of God will follow*on it. 2, Others are not openly prbphane (cveryfone will not adow that) but yet they are Gallio’s injthe matte., if matteis go v/ell as to their private in-|tereft, they care not whether the church of Godlink or fwim : But whatever they think, God ii.uhilaid engagements upon Scotland; we are fied by-covenants to religion and reformation. Thefefthat were then unborn are yet engaged; and in our?baptiitn we are engaged to; it; and it pafleth thefpower of all the magiftrates under heaven to ablblvc;them from the oath of God. They deceive thfim-felves, and it may be, would deceive others, that ,tbfnk otherwife: butl would caveat this, people willbe ready to think this a kind of Lnfligation to rtb.l-lion in me; but th^y ate very far wrong that think’-li. . ( 5 ) . '-teligion and loyalty are n«t well confiftent. Who*ever they be ihat teparates them, religion is not tobe blamed but they, It’s true it’s the duty of everyChriftiart to be loyal; yet I think the order of thingsare to be obferved as well as their natures; the order©f religion as well as the nature of it. Religioti multnot be the cock boat* it mult be the (hip : God muftjave what is His, as well as Csefar what is his ; andthefe are the beft fubjedts that are the beft Chrjfti.uis«.And that I am looked on as a friend to reformationp my glory.3, There is anotlaer fort that are truly godly, andBo them I muft fay what 1 fear, and every one hath,eafon to feat (it’s good to fear evil), it’s true theI^ord may prevent it; but if he do not, and truly I4 nftot fovefee any probability of it) times are like:hef to be very finning or very fuffering times ; andt Chriftians make their choice. There is a fad di-femna irLthe bufinsfs, fin.br fuffer; and furely; hethat would choofe the better part will choofe to fuf¬fer Others that will choofe to fin, (hall not efcapefufferrng They (hall ftiffcr, but it may be, not as^ do [^turning about and pointing to the Maiden] butSvorfc : Mine is but temporal, theirs (hall be eternal;tohen I (hall be flinging they fhall be howling Be-Jware therefore of fin, whatever you are aware of,efpecially in fuch times.1 Yet I cannot fay of my own condition, but thatthe Lord in his providence'hath mind of mercy tome. even in this world; for if 1 had been more fa- ;rourable dealt with, I fe^r I might have been over¬come with temptations, as many others are, andmany more, I fear, will be j and fo fhould have gonenut of the world with a more polluted confcience:than, through the mercy of God, now I have, A.-.dhence my condition is fuch now as when I am gone,dll be feennot to have been fuch as many imagined.It is fit God take me away, before I fall into thef^temptations that I fee others falling into, and manyothers, I fear, will fall: I wifh the Lord may pre¬vent it. Yet b'elfed be his name, that I am keepedboth from prefent evils and evils to come. [Here,he turned about a little, and fpake fome words to ■Mr Hutchifon, when turning again to the people, hefpake as followeth] Some may expeft I will regretmy own condition ; but truly I neither grudge nor;repine, nor defire any revenge. And I declare I donot repent my lad going up to London ; for I hadalways rather have fuftered any thing than ly underreproaches as I did. I defire not that the Lord fhouldjudge any man, nor do I judge any man but tnyfelf:I wiih, as the Lord bath pardoned me, fo he maypardon them for this and other things; and whatthey have done to me may never meet them in theiraccounts. I have no more to fay, but to beg the:Lord that when I go away, he would bid's every one.;that ftayeth behind.Mis laji -words immediately before he hid hit head onthe blockt after his doublet -was off, -were thefe : I de*fire you, gentlemen, all that hear me this day, totake notice (and I wiftx that all who fes me mighthear me) that now when I am entering into eternity,1and am to appear before my judge ; and as I defirefalvation, aud do exped eternal faivation and happi-inefs from him, from my birth to my fcafFold, I ani,free from any acccflion by my knowledge, concern¬ing counfel or any other way, to his late Majefty^death ; and 1 pray the Lord preferve his Majefiy, and.pour his beftbldlings on his perfon and government;and the Lord give him good and faithful counfetlors.Turning about to his friends, be faid. Many Chrififians may Humble at this, and my friends may bedifeoutented: but when things are rightly confid^refl, , ( 7 )my fnencs liave no -Jifciedit of me, nor ChrMiansno Itumb.ing block, but rather an encouragement.The Infcription and Epitaph upon the Monument in the^^bur‘b,‘riatE‘,Mur^ “u'd !t‘Upon the head of the Tomb there’s the Effigies ofan open B,ble drawn with thefe feripture citations.Rev. vi. 9, io, ii. « And when he had opened the firftfeal, I faw under the altar the fouls of them whichwere flam for the word of God, and for the tefti-mony which they held. And they cried with a loudU VT’ fay,ng’ How long, OLord, holy and true[ doft thou not avenge our blood on them that dwellL on the Cartfh'?, Afld white^obes were given unto e.^ry SI16 thr* arnd 11 was faid unto them» that.hey ffiould reft yet for a little feafon, until theirbe ni’fHrVanrv, ^ andiheir brethren, that ffiouldbe killed as they were, ffiould be fulfilled.- Revvn. 24. Thefe are they which came out of great tri‘bulat.on, and have waffied their robes, and madethem white in the blood of the Lamb/Follovts the Verfe,’Alt Raffenger, take heed what you do fee■ 1 his I omb doth ffiew for what fome Men did die-fere hes interr’d the Duft of thofe who floodPerjury, refifting unto bipod :Adhering to the Covenants and Laws,Lftabhfhing the fame ; which was the caufeTheir Lives were facrific’d unto the luft?f Pre’atifts abjur’d. The’ here their Duft-ics mixt with Murderers and other Crew^ bom Juftice juftjy did to death purfue/Rut as for this, no.caufe in them was foundvv niuii     ' . . .nil alnnt) to Mr Renwick s blood,j ne mou    Upon the foot of the Monument itands a Crow•with this Inscription, “Be thou faithful unro deal“ and 1 will give thee a crown of life.’'Upon the Grave Jione of David Steel, in the Chuiyard of Lejkmahego, is this Motto.DAvid, a Shepherd firlt, and thenAdvanced to be K:ng of men.Had of his Graces in this quarterThis heir, a Wand’rer, now a Martyr,Who for his Cpnftancy and .Zeal,Still to the back did prove good Steel,Who for Chrilt’s royal Truths atid Laws,And for the Covenanted CaufeOt Scotland’s famous Reformation,Declining Tyrant’s ulurpation ;By cruel Chrichton murder d lies,Whole Blood to Heav’n for- vengeance cries.