A New and SurprisingAccountOF THEGreat PlagueIn London,In the Near 1665.Whereof many thousands of Men, Women andChildren died in a few weeks, and often re¬mained unburied for many days; the mor¬tality being so great that holes could not befound to bury them in.Wrote by an Eye-witness of the dreadfulScenes herein described.STIRLING:!Tinted and Sold by M, Randall.OF SCOTLAND )1N B U ^/ -■ ■ V'WTV ¥> \* -.■■■ - ^ ’ ■,* '■•:• ’■ ’*'-zipubFI »k^iO'&irL'. r*f / -.A\.■r'»«*»* .•At-iiv:V; »fcr «»B<: »»•<*• 11'’ te *» 4: , • Lxh Q4'-Uk\.'... 7 . -c_ :•oiit ; v-i£ ■■ ■•* , '; ..'A V'-*. 'y^v- •' • twV:'" .Sir r.' ^.rf f/;I.,'!.' ! r.t , ■ s:<f:•r"'f !> i •.Mt./S■ > > ■ V' jn • •* ’ ', ' -L .IHISTORY/,OF THEPlague in London, in 1665.AMONGST the many calamities withwhich the Almighty is pjealed, to visitthe children of men, in order to bring themto a juft fenie of their weatnefs, aad to anentire dependance upon him, there arefcarcoly any that fhew more true penitenthumiliation, and a sight of what is reallygood, and trully evil, than thofe catchingdiftempers. which an offended God. feme-times fuffers to rage among the people.In the year 1665. the city of London wasi forely visited by the Plague : an account of]i the progrefs and effefts of that visitationwas kept by a citizen, who remained thereduring the whole time of the sicknefs. andi who appears to have been true and juft inI his remarks. It is hoped the reader will, ini:; a fhort difeription of that memorable judg-Iment, meet with fome lefsons.of beft wif-dom, and .receive inftruction from this dofeand feirou? converfe with death and thegrave. This dreadful contagion in Londonwas introduced by fome goods brought fromHolland. It ftrft broke out in the houfei* where thofe goods were opened, from* hence it ipread to other*. In the firft houfethat was kifefted there died four perlcms: aneighbour who went to visit them, ort re¬turning home, and gave the diflemper to her#' mily, and died with all her houfehold. Thedilorder fprdiad, and parilh officers, whowere employed about the sick perfons, beingalfo infcfted, the physicians perceived thedanger, snd- upon narrow inipeftion werealsured that it was indeed the Plague, withall it’s terrifying particulars, and that itthreatened a general inieftion. The peoplebegan now to be alarmed all over the town ;the number of burials, within the bills ofmortality, for a week, was generally about240 to 300, but from the 24-th to the 27thof January the printed bill was 4-74-. How¬ever the froft continued very fevere ’till nearthe end of February, the bills decreafed, andpeople began to look upon the danger asoVer; but in May, the bills greatly increafed,and the weather becoming hot, the infectionipread again in a dreadful manner.1 lived (fays the Author) without Aldgate;and as the diftemper had not reached to thatside of the city, our neighbourhood continuedeafy, but at the other end of the town thediftraftion was very great, and the nobility6M■]]ia«d gentry with their families thronged outof the town in an unufual manner. Nothingwas to be feen but waggons and carts andcoaches with goods and people and horle-men attending them, hurrying away ; thenempty waggons and carts appeared, whichfeemed to be returning to fetch more people,besides great crouus appeared on horfeback,fitted out for travelling. I his was a verymelancholy proipeft; indeed there wasScarcely any thing elfe to be feen ; it filUdmy mind with very (erious thoughts of (hemiiery that was coming upon the city, andthe unhappy condition of thoie who wouldbe left in it. By the end of July the con¬tagion had ipread and increaied to a greatdegree : forrow and iadneis fat upon everyface ; and though to ne parts were not yetoverwhelmed, and looked deeply concerned.London might well be faid to be all in tears.The mourners did not go about the ftreets,for nobody made a formal drefs of mourn¬ing for their neareft relation v but the voiceof mourning was, indeed, hiard in thegreets : the fhrieEs of women and childrenat the windows and doors of their houtes^when tleir deareft relations were dying, wereJo fte^ueiitly heard as ws pafsed, that it was6enough to pierce the ftouteft heart. Tearsarxi lamentations were perceived in almoftem houfe, efpecially in the firft part of thevi 'tari-. n; for towards the latter end peopledrd not fo much concern themfelvrs for taelo!s of their friends, ex,)e&iag that they them-felves would be fum noncd the next hourIt was a time of very unhappy breachesamong us. in matter* of religion; but thisdrea 'fut vi itation reconciled the differentp rties, ^nd took away all manner of preju¬dice from the people Y .*t af ter the sicknelswasoverj that fpir t of charity was loft, andthings ret rned to iheir old bad channel.Here we may obferve. that a near view ofdeath would foon reconcile men of goodprinciples to one another ■, and that it ischief]? owing to our easy situation in life,and our putting thele things far from us thatoccasions fuch a want of ch.iftian charity.A clofe view and r.onverfe with death orwith difeaiea that threaten death, would feumoft* the gall of our tempers, remove our ha¬tred, and bring us to fee w th different eyes.On the other sice of the grave, we fhall ailbe brethren again.The inns ot court were now all ihut• *up ; there were fewhut Jawjer; to be leen in7i the city ; indeed there was no need of themI for qu^.rre’j and divisions aoout inter eft had-t eeafed; every body was at peace. t wasalio worthy of observation as well as full ofinftruftion, to remark with what eagernefsthe people of all perfuasions embraced theopportunities they ha ., of attending upon thepublic worfhip, and other appointed timesoi devotion, as humiliations, iaftiogs, andpublic contef'ion of sins: to implode themercy of God, and turn away the judg¬ments which hung over their heads. Thechurches were fo thronged, that there "vasoften no commg near ; no, not to the verydoor of the largeft churches There werer.!(o daily prayers appointed, morning andevening, at v/hich the people attended withuncommon devotion All plays and publicplaces which had began to increaie amongus, were negletted ; the gaming-tables, pub¬lic dancing-rooms, and music-hc jfes whichhad multiplied, and begun to debauch themanners cf the people, were ftiut up andlupprelsed, finding no trada ; for the mmdscf the people were generally humbled andemployed with other things. Death ^as be¬fore their eyes, and every body begca tothink of their graves, ihe iatettion con-stinned to inereile 'till the middle of Auguft,when there died a thoufand a day, by theaccount of the weekly bills, though theynever gave a full acrourt by niany thcu-fands ; many of the pa^ifli officers were takensick thrmfeves, and hied when their accountwas to be given in. The pariLh of btepneyalone had within the year one hundred andsixteen fextons. grave-diggers, carriers of thedead, &c. Indeed the work was not of anature to allow them tim<* to take an exattaccount of their dead bodies, which were allthrown totether in the dark in a pit towhich no man could come near without theutmoft dan; er. I had (fays this author)the care of my brother's houie, which obli¬ged me iotretimes to go abroad, in thefew Iks I had dilinal feenes t.cfote my eyes,p iticularly of perfeas falliug dead in thettreets, and heard terrible fhrieki of women,who, in their agonies, would ♦t row opentheir chamber v-indows, and cry out it: a iadand affecting marner. It h impolsibie tocefcrioethe variety oi poilures, m rehith thepcls’.on of the poor people would expressthenucives. Palling through Token-honle-yarti, »>f a hidden a caiement violentlyopened juft over my head, and a womangave ^hree frightful fbriekt, and thencried,—Oh [ death, death, death !—whichftruck me with horror, and caufed a chilindsin my very blood. There was nobody to: be feen in the whole flreet, neither did any•-indow open, for people had no curiosity,now in any cafe. 1 went on to pafs intoBell-Ailey, wnere there was a ftiil greatertry : I could hear women and children ranfereamiag about tne rooms like diftra£tedperfon<. it is harSly to be belkved wha:dreadful cafes happened in particular familiesevery day : people in the rage of the diitem-’per, or in the torment < fthe {welling, w.iichindeed was intolerable^ becoming, ravingand diftratted, oftentimes laid violent hand,on themfelves, or threw themfeives out ofthe windows; or breaking out of the houfes,would dance naked about the ftreets, notknowing one thing from another. Others,if not prevented wouid run dire&ly down tothe river, and jump into the wattr. Somedied of mere gnef, and feme of fright andfurpile, without perhaps having receivedthe nf'fiion. Itjicften pierced my very foulto hear the'groans and cries of thoi'e whowere thus tormented. But the fyroptom of1 welling was accounted the moil particular10in the whole infection ■- for if thefe (wellings Ieould be brought to br.sk 2nd run, thepatient generally recovered ; whercaS,' thofewho were (truck with death at the beginningof the diftetnper, and had (pots coive upon jthem, often went about tolerably e&fy, tilla little before they died, and (ome till thsmoment they dropped down : fuch wouldbe taken fuddenly very sick, and would runto (ome convenient place, or to their ownhoufes if polsibie; and th|re sit down growfaint, and die.The method the tnagiftrates fell into, oflocking up the people’s doors, where anyhad taken the diftemper, and fetting watch¬men there night and day# to prevent any |going out to fpread the infeftion, lookinghard and cruel, as perhaps thole who werefound in the fatriky might have efcapei, ifthey had been removed from the sick : butthe public good feemed to juftify fuch aconduft, and there was no obtaining theleaft foftening of this conduft from their.This put people, who thought themlelveswell, upon plans to get out of their confine¬ment. Going out one morning, I heard agreat outcry, which prompting my curiosity,l inquired the caufe of a perfon who lookedA11s■\1cut of a window. A watchman had beanemployed to watch at the door of a houfe,which was iafifted and fhut up ; both him-felf, and the day watcnman* attended therea day and two nights. All this while nonoifc had been hard, nor lights feen in thehouie, neither had thoy called for any thing.It feems, that two or three days before, thedead-cart had {topped there and a fervantmaid had been brought down to the doordead, wrapped only in a rug* which the bu-tiers had put into the cart, and carried away.The next day the watchman heard a greatcrying and fcrea.ning in the houfe, whichhe fuppol'ed was oc*a'kmed Dy fume of thefamily dying juft at that time upon whichhe knocked at the door a great whi.e : atlaft one looked out, and faid rith an angryquick tone and the voice of one who wascrying, ‘ W rat d'ye want ?” He anlwered,»• 1 am the watchman. How do you doThe perfon replied, « .top the dead-cart.This was a.iput one o’clock ; foon after heflopped the dead-cart, and then knockedagain, but nobody aniwered. He continuedknocking, and the bell-man called feveraltimes, “ firm out v0ur dead ;”but nobodyanfwci ed; and the man who drove the cart,12being called to other fcoufes, would fby nolonger, and drove the cart away lln themorning when the da^ watchman came,they knocked at the door a great while; buthobody snfwering, they got a ladder, andone of them went up t© the window, andlooking into the room, he faw a womanlying de?d upon the floor, in a difmal si'u-iation ; but though he tailed aloud, andknocked at the flocr with his ftaff nobodyflirred or aniwered. This they made knownto the magiftrate, who order'd the houle tobe broke epen, when nobody was foundin it. but that young woman ; who havingbeen infe&ed and paft recovery, the reft badleft her to die by herself, and were every onegone, having found feme way to delude thewatchman and go cut. As to thofe criesand Quicks, which he heard, it was fappofedthey were the pafsonate cries of the familyat the bitter parting, which to be fure itwas to them all, this being the sifter to thexniftrds of the family. Many more -'nftancesmight be given ; but thefe may iufftcc tofhew the deep diftrefs of that day. Deathdid not now hover ever every one’s headonly, but looked into their houfes and cham¬bers, and even dared in their faces; and13irhougfc tK^reVcri forae ftnpidity and ru-U-nefs of mind yet thf re was a great Vealiaf juft alarm founded in the irnnoft foul :knany confciences were awakened, manyjjhard tearts melted, many a penitent made.fc6nfe;sinn, of crimes long •cf'n.ea'ltol Pe >'plermi^t be heard', even iN the ftriseftr, as weipa/sed'^Idcg, catling-'upon God!.for'mfrcythrough Jefus Chrift •, faying, « I havepied an adulterer, I have, been a murderer,”and the like : and none durft flop to makean enquiry into fuch thing:, cr to give coni-jfcrt'to the poor creatures, who, in :ae an-igoifh both of foul and body, thus cried out.Many ?ere tbe warnings that were thenjgiven by dying penitents, to others, not toiput off and delay their rtp'n ante to a d.tyof’diffrefe, that fuch & time’ of calamity as!this was not the b ft time for repentance.I wiffi, (ftys this anther) I fcovtld repeat the! very found of thole proars and exchmotions,• that I heard from fome pdnr dying crea-i tures, when in the height of their agony andI diftrefs ; and that I could make him whoreads this, hetr, as I imagine I now hear|them; ftr rhi found fedftii flill to ring in| my cars. In the begintrng of Seplen.5e?,| the number of burials increasing, the church-Hwardens of Ald^ate parifli ordered a largepit to be dug, to hold all the dead whichmight die in a month: it was ,about fortyfeet long. a,ad sixteen broad. Some blamedthe churchwardens for faffering (uch afrightful gulf to be dug; neverthelefs, in twoweeks they had thrown more than elevenhundered bodies into it, when they were ob¬liged to fill it up, as the bodies were conewithin six feet of the top. My curiositydrove me to.gojand lee this pit. when therehad been nearly four huadered people buriedin it. I got admittance into the churchyard, by means of the iexton, who was afeasible religious map. He would havtperluaded e not to go, faying, that “ IIwas indeed their duty, to venture, and in iithey tnii ht hope to be preferved •, but thaias 1 haa no particular call* he thought mjcuriosity could not jultiiy my running th<hazard.’' I told him, * t had a great tlesinin my mind to go ; and that perhaps, imight be an iuilrudting sight. Nay,1lay* the good man, ‘ if you will venturiupon that fcore, in the name of God, go init wid be a lermon to you ; it may be thibeft that e/er you heard in your life.”15This difcourfe had ihocked my rd’olutioa,and I flood wavering a good wmle; but juftthen hearing the bellman, and the cart loadedwith dead todie* appearing, I went in.—There was nobody that I could perceive, atfirft, with the cartt but the buriers, and theman who led the cart; but when they cameto the pit, they law a man muflled in a clock,who appeared in great agony The bu-riers immediatey gathered about him, fup-posing he was one ot thofe poor delirious,or defperate creatures who would fome-times run to the pit wrapt in blankf ts, andthrow themfelves in ; and, as they faiu.burythemfeives, When the buriers came tohim, they, fcon found he was neither del-perate nor diftempered in mind, but oneopprefstd with a dreadful weight of giief,having his wife and feveral children allin the cart, that was juft come in with him,and he following in agony and excels ofgrief. He calmly desired the Ouriers to lethim alone, and faid he would only fee thebodies thrown in, and go away fo theyleft begging him ; but no icouer was the cartturned round, and the bodies fhot into thepit altogether, which was a fprprife to Lira,Hr he at le&ft expefkd they would have16been decently laid in, though, indeed, he'E-as afterwards convinced that was impof-iible. No fconer did he fee this, but hecried out zlcud, uuabie to contain hUnfelf,ai;d fell do«n in a Iwoon The buriers ranto him and lock him up, and when he cameto himfelf,-Ld him to a place where he wastaken care cf. He looked into the pitagain as Le went away, but the buriera hadcovered the bodies immediately, by throw¬ing in earth fo that nothing could be ieen*The cart had in it sixteen or feventeen bo-d es. Some were wrapt up in linen fheets,joruein rugs fome were little otherwife thannrktd, or fo loofelv clad, that what coveringthey Tad fell from them in the fhootlng outcf the cart, and they fell quite naked amongthe reft : but the matter was not much tothem, every thing became indifferent, feeingthey were to be huddled together into thecommon grave of mankind •, for here was nodifference, but rich and poor went together,John Hayward, under-iexton, grave-digger,and bearer of the dead, never had the dif-temper at all, but lived about twenty yearsafter it Mis wife was employed to nurfethe infected people, yet fhe hcrfclf nevercaught it. The only thing he ufed to keep17isoff tke iafcftion, was holding garlick andrue in his mouthi and fmoaking tobacco tthis account I had from himfeif; his wifeuied to wafh her head in vinegar, and Iprin-kle he; clothes fo with it as to keep it mold ;and if the fmell of any of thofe fhe waitedon was more than ufually bad, die f nulledvinegar up her nofe, put it over her cap, andheld a handkerchief with it to her mouth.And here I mud not omit mentioningthe difposition of the people of that claywith refpett to their charities, which indeedwere very large, both in a publick and pri¬vate way. Some pious ladies were io zea¬lous in this good work, and fo confident inthe protection of providence in the dischargeof this great duty, that they went aboutgiving alms, and visiting the poor familieswho were infefted, in their very homes, ap¬pointing nurles nnd apothecaries to fut plythem with whkt they wanted fhus pivingtheir blefsings to the poor, in folii rel ef, aawell as hearty prayers lor them. I w.ll notunder:akc to lay that none of thefe charita¬ble p topic were fullered to die ot the plague;but this I may Iky, that 1 never knew anyof them mifeerry in their pious work, whichI mention tor the encouragement of others48m cafes of like diftrefs. And doubtkfs, itthey that give to the poor lend to the Lord \and he willjrepay it; thofe who hazard theirlives to give to the poor and to comfortand afsift them in fuch a mifery as this, mayhope to be protefted in it. From the mid¬dle of Auguft, to the middle ot September,the infeftion ftifl increafed, and fpread i:(clfwith wounderful power, and it was rectoaedthat, during that time, there died no itisthan sixteen hundred a day. It war th?nthar the confusion and terror of the peoplewas inexprdsible; the courage of the psrionsappointed to c rry away the dead began tofail them. The watcbfulnefs of the magil-trates was now put to the fevereft trial. Atlaft the violence of the disorder came tofuch a height, that the people lat {till, look-sag upon one another, and ieemed quiteaba adored to defpair.m a word, people began to give them-lelves up to a fear that there was nothing tobe expected but an univeriai deiolation Thisde.pair made people bold and venturous ;they were no more fhy of cne another, asexpecting there was no avoiding the tef-temper, but that ail mutt go : this broughtthem to crowd into the churches ; they noIDger inquired what condition the peopleplat near them were in, but came witk-f the leaft caution, and crowded together,! if their lives were of no conlequence,pared with the work which they weretie about, Indeed their zeal in coming,i the earneftnels and affettionaie atten-athey (hewed to what they heard mademanifeft what value people would putan the worfhip of God if they thought:ry day they attended at the church mighttheir laft.It was in the height of this dilpair it>afed God today his hand, and to slacken; violence of the contagion, in a manner| furprisiug as that of its beginning ; anduich ihewed it to be his own particular: ad. Nothing bat Almighty power couldfive done it; the diforder del'pifed all medi-Sie, death raged in every corner, ar>d hadgone on as it did then, a few weeks moremid have cleared the town of ail itsIiabitants.In that very moment, when thirty shou¬ld were dead in three weeks, nay, when its reported three thoufand died in oneght, and an hundred thoufand were taken;k ; then we might well lay, “ Vain wasJihe help of man }” it pleafed "God to ciule jthe force of the diftemper to abate, and by|hit immediate hand to difa'in the enemy.It wa* wonderful! the physicans were tur-prifed, wherever they vUited, to find their npatient* better, and in a few days every body ;was recovering. Nor was this by any me¬dicine found out, or by any new method ofcure discovered; but it was evidently from |tue fecret invisible hand of Him who hadat firft ient this diseafe as a judgement uponus- Let wile men fearch for reafons in na¬ture to account for it, and labour as muchas they will to kfsen the debt they owe theirMakrr ; even thofe physicians, who had theleail lhare of religion in them were obliged jto acknowledge the whole was the power ofGod. The fireets were r yw full of poorrecovering creatures, who appeared verylecsible, and tuar.kful to God, for their un-expefted deliverance : yet, I mud own, thatas to the genera ity of the people, it mighttoojuiTly te lAd of them, as was laid ofthe Children of. Ilrad, after they had beendelivered from the belt oi Paaraoh ; “ iheylung his p'raiie, but they icon fergat hisworks.’’The Author,, who was perferved unhurt,with his whole family, during the time ofhis siclcoefs gives in his hiftory a particularaccount of the many reafonings and fearswhich affefted his mind, before he couldcome to a fixed rtfolution, whether to fta': and,take his lot in the ftation in which Gi*had placed him, or by leaving the city ,‘Qthe chance of unlettling himklf, and of lrin8his efFcfts. which lay fcattered about Atthe earneft entreaties of his brother, h co^“eluded to go ; but being always cr*1*6^ lnthis design, by feveral accidents,canae»one morning* as he exprefses it, vef wa^m'y; in his mind, whether thefe repated difap-'.| pointements, were not intimat°n* t0 kim,! that it was the will of heaven'16 feould not!i go ; which was iucceeded by Tfldther thought,:r that if tbi> hiiit were fromGod, he was able,t to preferre him, in the m'dft of all death and!.is dangers that could fiirraund him ; and thatI if he attempted to fecsr6 himfelf, by fleeingiu from his habitation, land afting contrary toItj theie intimations, which he believed divine,*| it was a kind of flying from God, who couldcaufe his juftice to overtake him, when andwhere he thought fit.22But what finally fixed him in a refolationto ftay, and call; hiaifelf entirely upon theprotection and good pleafure of the Al¬mighty, was the following circuiuftanceAt a time when his thoughts were more than'mmmonly ferious upon this weighty fub-:ct, turning over the bible winch lay beforeNi, he cried cut, “ Well, I know notto do : Lord, direct me." At thatm0;ent, happening to flop, he call his eyeon fecond verfe of the 9111: Plalm, andread lOrh verfe, as follows :“ ^ W1 lay of the Lord, he is my refuge,and my ^ortrels ; my God, in him will Itruft. Su^iy he fhall deliver me from thefnare of the fowler, and from the noifomepeftilence. {haij[ Cever thee with hisfeathers, and u^der his wings fiialt thontruft : his truth ft^U be thy fhield and buck¬ler- Thou fhalt mt be afraid for the ter¬ror by night, nor f«r the arrow that fiiethby day ; nor for the p-ftilence that walkethin darknefs; nor for the deftruction thatwafteth at noon-day. A thoufand fiball fallat thy side, and ten thoufand at thy righthand 5 but it lhall not come nigh thee.—Only with thine eye {halt thou behold, andfee the reward of the wicked. Becaufe thou23[aft made the Lordi which is thy refugeii?en the Moft High thy falvation •, there|iali no evil bjfal thee, neither (hall anyjlague come nigh thy dwelling. See."A Hymn on Death and Eternity,SUITED TO THE FOREGOING OCCASION.» TOOP down, my thoughts, thatule to rile* Converfe awhile with death *pink how a gaipmg mor.al lies,I And pants away his breath.is quiv’ring lip hangs feebly down,I His pulfes faint and few jmen fpeechlefs, with a doleful groan,!;He bids the world adieu.lit oh! the foul that never dies Ii At once it leaves the clay !, thoughts purfue it where it flies.And track its wond’rous way.«2*Up to the courts where Angel* dwellIt mounts triumphant there ;Or devils plunge it down to hell,la infinite despair.And muft my body faint and die ?And muft this feul remove ?Oh ! for fome guardian Angel nighTo brar it fafs above.To my Creator’s faithful handMy naked foul I truft ;And my flelh waits for thy commandto drop into the daft.FINIS.I