Four Songs.The Weaver’s Garland.Lanarkshire Farewel.Lovely Doon.Bess the Ballad-singer.KILMARNOCK:Printed for the Books (lien.2WEAVERS GARLAND. PARTI.Tune—Cropies lie down.n EJOICE, my brave Weavers, we have wonthe Plea,And we’il bring down the Tyrants, and makethem to gnee.To pay us the wages we justly deserve,For the cursed oppressors they mean us to starveTheir conscience is long, and they rack like rawplaiding,But our brave Committee, they have brought theirfrom hiding,And laid down their roguery before our just lawjiAnd our brave learped Counsel discover’d it a’, jOur witnesses examin’d are a’ found correct, ;And against aur proceedings there none can reflect jSo now to each other I hope we’ll prove true, jAnd make the proud rebels to pay what us due.Tltere are two of tin. rebels we have brought t>shame,That’s W- n and R y I public wili name!For we brought them to justice in spite of theijskills,And fin’d them'Severely for having long mills.o•Ik;■Our laws they are just, when they’rept;? into force,iAnd whoever breaks them, lies under a curse ;For our brave learned counsel turn’d o’er everyflaw.And fin’d them severely for breaking the law.‘But now to conclude, and we all do agree,ITo toast Jeffrey’s health, and our brave Committee;ITo all the brave fellows who did us support,1 And houses of credit where we do resort.[To our }vives and our families, likewise our sweet¬hearts,I Our comrades at home, likewise foreign parts ;And I hope they’ll restore us the blessings of peace.Then commerce will flourish, and burdens willcease.WEAVER'S GARLAND. PART IIIN cauld November’s stormy days.When webster lads an’ a’ that,Lang time had wrought, and lawyers bought.To try their claims an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an’ a’ that,There’s Jeffrey an’ a’ that,Did plead their cause upon the laws,An’ we’ll did plead an’ a’ that.4Ye blackguard race, baud up jour face.If that ye dare, an’ a’ that;An A—c dose should be your brose,For starving poor an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an’ a’ that,Your warping mills, an’ a’ that;Gi’e the de’il his due, he’s sure o’ you,Wi’ my good will an’ a’ that.But if we gain our chiefest end,And get our price, an’ a’ that,We’ll to our loom, and that right soon.And work fu’ hard, an’ a’ that.For a that, an’ a’ that.Our wives an’ bairns, an’ a’ that,Will then be fed, and hearts right glad.And cheery be an’ a that.Our shuttles then will merry gang,And we’ll be blythe, an’ a’ that,Rub out our scores on amrey doors.And pay our debts, an’ a’ that.For a’ that, an’ a’ that, . -• *We’ll pay our debts an’ a’ that ;The rascal crew they sair will rue,That ere they wrang’d, an’ a’ that.3. THE LANARKSHIRE FAREWEL,-VREWEL to sweet Glasgow, that fntc traclhigp1 <*y«j That beautiful stands Ort the banks of the Clyde,er tall lofty Steeples-are seen in great plenty,With fine hollow scjuares, and streets broad and]L wide. , . _ rrof>he streets are well thronged with merchants'andtradesmen,"'Wherein busy Commerce each Speeds their owmway •,rnhrich dressed Ladies, and near servant Lasses,! All the graces of beauty and fashion display.he pride of all Scotland, and die boast of thenation,Where extensive commerce doth still bear theIsw'ay,rom where the sun sets, by the western ocean,\ To where he discloses his bright morning ray.png may Glasgow Flo wish, and Peace be herportion,In \Vevth, Art, and Science, may she alwaysgrow;iLy success attend still her sons in their station,And the Green Tree of Glasgow continue togrow.Though her Sons be tore from her, and fate Idecreed it,For a while they must leave it to guard tproud Rose,For the Thistle neglected, lies careless uttheeckTo the opening assault of the stranger and fcSoon may the time come when the war is endeAnd Glasgow get back her brave sons, all Tpride,Then the tree still shall flourish, with branchextending,Andfriends again meet on the banks of theClyiLOVELY BOON.ROLL on lovely Boon across thy green vallies^The field that I us’d to adore ;I’ll wander beside thee, and weep in the willow 1Where my Billy oft wander’d before.My Billy was handsome, with manners adorniri)The sport of the youth of the land ;Was as blithe as the rose in a sweet summe:morning,When bath’d in the dews of the dawn.The lambs on yon mountains could not be moharmless,' The dove's not more constant than he ;7uen lovers assembled in night strolling parties,y My Billy came always to me.ml *. ■: K' J:n! ...., .r. 'r;n my bosom would swell with that heavenlyemotion . 'j Which glowed so guileless and free,nen he would declare in a true love devotion,I He was fondly enraptur’d with me.vhen we would reclinetoescapethe mildshowers,In the bield of a gay flow’y thorn,; would chaunt like a thrush in a sweet scentedi bow’r,As he welcom’d the grey ey’d morn.lit, alas! he did sail to a far distant nation.In boasting the white rolling waves ;fhere the sons of the wealth they divide tlreirplantations.My Billy got nought but the grave.Ifhen the cold hand of death on his bosbm waspressing,And the dead filling ghz'd in his e’e,Ills friendly attendants they heard him expressing,Dear Mary, I’m constant to thee,fhen the sailors burst out with a heartfelt emo¬tion,Crying, alas ! for our Messmate’s no more.They weepM as they weigh’d -to return tiocean,For the youth they entomb’d on the sh;Since the scourge of the climes has destroys!blossom,The blossom t>y right that w4s mine,May the sands that entomb’d him rest lighhis bosom,Where in raptures I usM to recline. ‘BESS the BALLAD-SINGER. 'COMF. round and buy, come buy, come buyA song of little Bess,To please your taste I’ll do my best,J Fis all l can professSweet maids, to you I’ll sing True Blue,And so your lads shall prove :To love-sick swains i’ll sing sad strainsOf those that died for love.T hen brisk again my song shall-be,To cheer the friends who follow me.Poor little Bess the Ballad-singer.Come round and buy, come buy, come buy,Assist poor little Bess,The home to cheer of parents dear,Who droop beneath distress ^Bo shall you prove propitious love,And boast a friend sincere,That balm shall find of human kindA sympathising tear.