ton’FAMILIESAND PRIVATE PERSONS,1?r^f VPOX VARIOUS SUBJECTS AND OCCASIONS: 1S ' ' ^' la which all the Prayers are so arranged, that when '^ any one is too long to be used without inconveni- Jene'e, it may be shortened by leaving out some of the *paragraphs : and this may be done without injury <to the connection. {-1 ~ppb/ij/TO V. IUCIt ARE ADDED,GRACES SfOS. -FOUSTCr PERSONS.* GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.2,PRAYER-BOOK.The following admonition read occasionally before lamilyworship, is very proper to produce seriousness of mind, andto keep up a godly jealousy, lest hypocrisy and formalityshould render this important duty of no use.My Friends and Fellow-Christians,We, dust and ashes, are assembled to speak unto theholy Lord God of heaven and earth, our Maker and OurJudge, who deserves from us all possible reverence when¬ever we presume to call upon Him. We are going topray to that God who strictly charges us to take heedthat we draw not nigh to him with our lips, whilst outhearts are far from him—to that God who is of purereyes to regard our services without the meditation of theHoly One and the Just, who died for our sins, but hathpromised to give us whatever we shall ask of Mm in hisname, and to perform all our petitions.Now, therefore, let us lift up our hearts to him thathe may fill us with reverence and godly fear, with sin¬cerity and lowliness of mind, with lively faith in theolood and prevailing intercession of Jesus, and with as¬surance that we shall receive whatever we ask accordingto his will. With these holy dispositions we should al-»ways desire to bow down our knees before God,4A FAMILY MORNING PRAYER.0 Thou, Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ, and Godof glory, who hast so loved the world as to give thyOnly-begotten Son, to the end, that all who believe inhim should not perish but have everlasting life, merci¬fully regard us merciful sinners. Thou seest how slowof heart we are to believe the record thou hast given ofthy Son. Though we read of his glory, how littledoes it affect us! Though he has a name which isabove every name in heaven or earth, how little affiancedo we feel in him ! or consolation from all that he hathdone and suffered !Have compassion upon us, O Lord, and help us.Give us what thou hast most graciously promised, theSpirit of truth to open our understanding, that we mayunderstand the things which, are spoken of thy Son inthe scriptures. O give us the spirit of wisdom and re¬velation in the knowledge of him; of his person and Idsoffice ; of his love and power towards all that hear hisvoice and follow him; that so we may abound in clear,magnificent, and endearing thoughts of Jesus Christ theLord ; that he may be no less precious to us than hewas to the glorious company of the Apostles, and thenoble army of the martyrs. Thou, O God, hast' de¬clared that thy Son shall be exalted and extolled, andshall l>e very high. Help us, we earnestly pray thee,!to give him the honour day by day, more perfectly.Enable us to comprehend with all saints tlie immeasur¬able extent of his love; the breadth and length, theIteight and depth thereof.We leg tins of thee, O our God, in older that wemay have our affections raised up to heaven, where5Christ sitteth on thy right hand ; that We may growpi ore dead to the world, and walk more becoming ourChristian character : that we may be enriched as muchas possible with light and grace, jay and peace in this'present life ; and to shew forth the praise’of Him whohath called us out of darkness into marvellous light.5We beseech thee, that the excellency of our know*ledge of Christ may be evidenced to others, by our add¬ing day by day to our faith a noble Christian courage,in defence of his truth, honour, and government: by aconstant victory over our corrupt affections ; by a mo¬derate use of all lawful comforts ; by a meek and quietspirit under all our trials, and by resignation to the willof our heavenly Father.Grant, O Lord, that our knowledge of the redemp¬tion that is in Jesus may work effectually this day uponour hearts. Let the Saviour’s love to us be the patternof ours to all that are round about us ; let it make uszealous to embrace all opportunities of ministering to thehappiness of one another. If we cannot assist the needyby our alms, or protect the oppressed by our power, Olet us diligently exercise love, in abstaining from all un¬charitableness of speech, from all frowardness and eviltempers : let us look upon the failings of others withpity, as if they were our own : make us kind and ten¬der hearted, forbearing and forgiving all, as thou, forChrist’s sake, hast forgiven us. Banish from our dwell¬ing all variance, whisperings, heart-burnings, and evilsurmisings. Let peace and gentleness, meekness andgoodness, be exercised by all of us one towards another,and the only contention in our family be this, who shallconform most to the will of God, by abounding inbrotherly kindness and fervent charity. Thou, O God,that makest men to be of one mind that dwell together,inspire us with a spirit of concord, and harmonize allour naturally selfish tempers. O let this benefit at leastbe found from our family-devotion, that we may agreebetter together, and live • more in peace and quietness,than those who call not upon thee ; who lie down andvise up like the herd of the stall, never saying, Where isGod the Maker !Continue, we beseech thee, if it seemeth good to thee,the voice of health and strength amongst us, and thefavour of thy prosperous providence ; but give us graceto expect and to be ready for a change, And, as in a0(lay, nay, in an hour, our prosperity may be turnedby thee into deep affliction, our health into pining sick¬ness, our ease into tormenting pain, and our He intodeath. 0 Lord God, establish us in Christ Jesus, andgive the earnest of thy spirit in our hearts, that, what¬ever we are called to suffer, we may not be ffraid withany amazement, but bear our cross cheerfully, to theedification of those around us.Comfort and protect continually all our near relationsand dear friends. Sanctify to them their present cir¬cumstances whatever they are. May they mind thethings of the Spirit, and never be deluded by things oftime and sense. Be their guide through life, and atdeath give them admission into thy kingdom and glory.Promote, 0 God, the peace and welfare of this ourcountry. Let thy servant, our most gracious King, becontinually, guided by thy counsel, and reign over us inrighteousness. May he and his Ministers with un¬wearied labour, seek to promote thy glory and hispeople’s good.Free and relieve all who are distressed or oppressed;regard their hearts, bear their sighs and make them to seetheir sin in their suffering, to humble themselves underthy hand, and find that it is good for them to beafflicted. Bless our enemies; do good to them whohate us; and ever enable us to return good-will forevil.Accept our praises for our continued preservation bythy goodness, who has first brought us into being ; forsleep upon our beds, for the return of the day after theshades of darkness, for the use of our reason, the com¬fort of this opportunity of worshipping thy name, andabove all, for the light of life, the Son of Righteousness,Christ Jesus ; for whom, with all that is within us, weshoud bless thy name ; in whom we command ourselvesand our services to thee; and to whom, with thyselfand the Holy Ghost, one God over all, be all honourand praise, love and obedience, for evermore.Our Father which art in Heaven, hallowed be thy27nftme. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done onearth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our dailybread. And forgive us oiir trespasses, as we forgivethem that trespass against us; and lead us not intotemptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is thekingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever andever. Amen.A FAMILY EVENING PRAYER.Blessed and holy Lord God, who didst make alxthings by thy power, who rulest all things by thy providence, and fillest all things by thy presence, wTe, thyunworthy creatures, beseech thee to fill our hearts wTithan awful sense of thee, and with humility, sincerity, andfaith in Christ in our approaches to thee.Wethankfully acknowledge our absolute dependenceupon thee ; for our lives, and all the comforts of them,wTe are indebted to thy bounty. Thy hands havefashioned us in the womb, brought us into this World,and ever since We saw the light, filled us with varietyof good. We adore thy sparing mercy. Justly mightestthou have brought upon us all the curses written inthe book of thy law against thy transgressors: and hadthy ways been as our ways, and thy thoughts like ourthoughts towards our enemies, we had long since beenpast the power of offering to thee our thanks and praise,beyond the benefit of prayer, or the hope of pardon.We confess, O Lord, we have been transgressors ofthy law, in thought, word, and deed. We are charge¬able with the workings and defilements of pride andhypocrisy, of uncharitableness and sensuality of self-love,and worldliness of heart, notwithstanding all the methodsthou hast taken to heal these diseases of our souls. Wehave sinned against the clear revelation of thy will, andthe strongest obligations binding us to comply with it.We have sinned against thy most inviting promises, andthy most dreadful threatenings: against the frequentwarnings of thy Word, the renewed motions and power-lul convictions of thy Spirit, ami the precious blood of8Christ. We have sinned against the light of our under¬standing, against promises and purposes of obedience,and against the strongest remonstrances of our own con-scienses.O God, we cannot recount the number of our sins,nor fully set in order all their aggravations. We shouldnot therefore presume to ask for thy pardoning mercy,if we do not trust that thy Spirit has created within us» holy mourning for all our wickedness, and for thatcorruption of our nature, from whence as their fountain,all these poisonous streams have flowed. O humbleus effectually, and place before us all the detestablequalities which meet together in every act of sin, thatinjustice and contempt towards thee, that rebellion andingratitude which prevail in it. And oh ! most merci¬ful Father, speak peace to our souls, weary and heavyladen with guilt, through the death and sufferings ofthy dear Son, and for the sake of his precious sacrifice,avert the punishment from us. Increase in us the faithwhereby we only can be justified, and have peace withthee, through our Lord Jesus Christ.Accompany thy pardoning mercy with thy purifyinggrace. Help us, 0 Father, thou God of all power andmight, to put of the old mail, which is corrupt, accord¬ing to the deceitful lusts, and to put on the new manwhich is created after thine own image, in righteousnessand true holiness. Give us. a new heart and put witluin us a new spirit. O grant us a mind weaned fromthe pomps and pleasures, the profits and honours, andall the transitory enjoyments of the flesh ; but hunger¬ing and thirsting after righteousness. Prevent us bythy grace, that we may never more commit sin withthe deceitful hope of gaining advantage h.y it. Impressns continually with the conviction, that the gaining ofthe whole world can be of no r ecompense for tire loss ofthe soul.O let that solemn account we must ere long give,when the throne shall be set, the books be opened, andthe dead, small, and great, stand befor e God, influence2^9the whole course of our lives ; O let us so believe amiso obey, that when Christ shall come in the clouds withpower and great glory, we may then cry out in holyraptures. Lo, this is our God, we have waited for him,and he will save us ! This is the Lord, we will be gladand rejoice in his salvation !In thy merciful protection, 0 God, we humbly com¬mit ourselves, our dear friends and relations this night.The darkness is no darkness with thee, but the night isas clear as the day. Defend, we beseech thee, ourpersons, our dwellings, and our possessions. Refreshus with sweet sleep ; and with the health and strengthof our bodies, and the vigour of our minds, let us servethee all our days, till through the gate of death weenter into that blessed kingdom, where there is no night;where we all receive the end of our faith, even the sal¬vation of our souls, through Jesus Christ; in depend¬ence upon whose righteousness and intercession wefarther pray : Our Father, See.FOR'THE LORD’S DAY MORNING.Thanks be unto thee, O most merciful and graciousGod, for having devoted this day to thy service. Nevercan we sufficiently express the obligations we owe theefor this stated season of rest from labour ; for this de¬lightful opportunity afforded us of imitating the heavenlyhost, whilst we assemble ourselves with one heart andvoice to glorify thee, 0 God, our heavenly Father ; andthee 0 Christ, our Advocate, Righteousness, and Life ;and thee, O eternal Spirit, the Comforter and Sanctifierof the Church of God.We praise thee, who instead of loathing our personsfor our sinful pride and stubborn forgetfulness of thee,.,hast taken the most effectual methods to teach us theknowledge and plant in us the love of thy name. Wepraise thee that thou hast commanded us to make, onthis day, public confession of our guilt, and of thy hatredof sin ; of our disobedience and the riches of thy forbear¬ance towards us ; of our weakness, depravity, and need10of thy perpetual grace to help us. We praise thee forcommanding us to make public intercession for all sortsand conditions of men, in order that our hearts may bethe more enlarged towards them, and our hands themore ready to minister to their necessities. We praisethee for this opportunity of hearing thy holy scripture, ,which is profitable for our reproof, for our correction,and for our instruction in righteousness.We bless thee that we have our habitation fixed inthe land of liberty, under the bright beams of thy glori¬ous gospel; that we can worship thee according to ourconscience, no one making us afraid ; that we are notrequired to pay adoration to those who by nature arenot gods, nor compelled to bow down at the altar ofidols. We praise thee that we are in health and strengthto use the sacred opportunity of going with the multi¬tude that keep thy holy day, into the house where thouhast recorded thy name, and promised to meet and blessus. How amiable are thy dwellings, O Lord of hosts ;one day employed in them is better than a thousand en¬grossed by the business of the world.We praise thee also for passing by all the provoca¬tions and insults which we have olfered unto thee byabusing and profaning this holy day, by our detestablepresumption in compassing thee about with deceit analies. O how often have we rushed into the courts ofthy house without meditation, without prayer, withoutany desire to worship thee with an holy worship ! howoften have we dissembled and pretend to give thee glory,when we were yet living in our sins, making the angrywith us every day, and casting thy law behind us !O, our God, let the time past suffice for us to have 'entered into thy courts thoughtless and unbumbled, self- I %satisfied, and self-sufficient. Now teach us effectually !tto reverence thy sanctuary: make us feel awful concep- '■tions of the God with whom we have to do, and of the kinfinite importance of the holy exercises in which we ftare going to engage. Thou knowest our souls cleave !fato the very dust of the ground. O send thy quickening cIISpirit to raise our thoughts and desires up to thee inevery part of thy holy worship. Shield us on everyside from the flesh, the world, and the devil, that theymay have no power to fill us with sinful distractions, andmake us absent in spirit while we are presenting oiubodies in thy temple.While we confess our guilt, open thou our under¬standing, we beseech thee, that we may understand allthe aggravations of our wickedness. Gall back to re¬membrance whatever at any time has. made us appearmost vile in our own eyes, that we may now feel agodly sorrow, and be really ashamed and confounded atthe sight of our iniquity.—Accompany, we beseech thee,the reading of thy most holy word with the power ofthy own Spirit, that so the practice of thy saints, andthy peculiar favour towards them, may stir us up to bediligent followers of their examples : that we may re¬ceive the strong consolation from thy promises, whichin Christ Jesus are all sure and infallibly certain, and,by hearing the gospel proclaimed, attain to clearer viewsof thy great salvation. When we are offering up ourintercession to thee, give us to feel tenderness of heart,melting pity towards all our fellow creatures in distress,and very fervently desire that thou wouldst immediatelyappear for their relief. When we ask for mercy andforgiveness, strength and holiness of heart, may we askwith an earnestness suited to the value of these gifts,and with a strong conviction of our unavoidable misery,if our suit is rejected.When we join in giving thanks unto thy name, Omake all thy goodness to pass before us. Excite in us«uch a lively remembrance of the multitude of thymercies towards us, as shall fill our souls as it werewith marrow and fatness, whilst our mouths are prais¬ing thee with joyful lips.—From the beginning to theconclusion of the service of thy sanctuary, by the per¬petual influence of thy free Spirit, do thou uphold us,that we may be satisfied with the pleasures of thy house,and offer to thee a pure offering in righteousness.12And, as thou, 0 Lord, hast ordained that the peopleshould seek thy law at the mouth of thy ministers, dothou fill them with knowledge and sound doctrine ; thatthey may preach not themselves, but Christ Jesus, the jLord. Under their instructions delivered according tothy will, may our ignorance be' dispelled, our slothfulhearts quickened, our fears removed, our hope encour¬aged, and our souls established in grace.Finally, we beseech thee, O God, to incline our ■hearts to sanctify this whole day. Make it our de¬light to employ our time in reading thy word, in medi¬tation and privacy, not yielding to the sinfulness of ourhearts, or the custom of the world, in speaking our owewords, in thinking our own thoughts, and finding oiuown pleasure on thy holy day. And grant us grace soto use this day of rest and of public worship in this lifethat we may none of us fail of having a part in theeverlasting adoration, praise, and love of thy name inthe life to come, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen, iA FAMILY PRAYER THE EVENING jOF THE LORD’S DAY.O LORD, thou art great, wonderful, and holy. Thou |art exalted far above all blessing and praise which can .ever.be afforded to thee by the angels of light; yetsuch is thy condescending mercy, that the door of thy [house has been open this day to us, vile dust and miser- jable sinners. We have been waiting on thee in theordinances of thy own appointment; and as we implore ;the comfort and help of thy spirit before we present our¬selves in thy courts, so now, as becometh us in bounded,duty, we desire to return thee our most heartythanks and praise, if we have found any deliverance jfrom the hardness, unbelief, distraction, and deceitful-I ;ness of our depraved hearts, whilst we were offering our Ivows unto thee.Not unto us, but to the influence of thy Spirit Ibe the praise, if we have confessed our sins this daylwith any self-loathing, and being melted into contriw2,13tion for our offences ; if the foibearance thou hastshown towards us, and Ihy tender pity in sparing ns,though so richly deserving damnation, have been sensi¬ble to our hearts, whilst we were accusing ourselves be¬fore thee. We praise thee if we have sanctified thisday, and our holy services in it, to the honour of ourLord Jesus Christ, by looking only to the virtue of hisatonement for the remission of our sins. We bless theeif we have found thy word sweet unto us, and the in¬creasing discovery of thy love delightful to our hearts ;if we have been filled with faith, and experience in ourhearts the Spirit of Grace, of prayer and supplication ;so that instead of saying. When will the Sabbath begone, that we may buy and sell and get gain ? we. havefound the spiritual provisions of thy house a feast indeedto our souls. We thank thee if thy word preachedhath searched us, making any hidden corruption ; if ithas been for our edification, exhortation, and comfort inChrist Jesus. We thank thee, if it has been a plea¬sant and joyful thing to us to be thankful, to speakgood of thy name, and to declare thy goodness towardsthe children of men.Lord, increase and stir up within us evermore devoteaffections when we call upon thee : and in whatsoeverwe have displeased thee this day, O do thou pardon us.Overlook what has been wanting, forgive what has beenamiss, though we are too blind ourselves to perceive it.There is iniquity in our most holy offering. Purge away,we beseech thee, the defilement of them in the fountainopened for sin and for uncleanness. Accept our devo¬tions at the hands of 'our faithful and merciful High-priest, and may our sacrifices be perfumed with thesweet incense of his merits.For his sake fulfil all the requests we have this daymade known unto thee. O give us strength and powerto live more according to thy will, in all righteousnessand holiness. Let the benefit and success of our pub¬lic worship be manifested in our whole deportment; andthe influence of the good impressions made upon us in14thy house, appear in our sincere love both to God andman, in our abhoring all that is evil, and cleaving tothat which is good. Let every heavenly and Christiantemper we have this day requested shine in our conver¬sation, and our lives be a transcript of the graces weask in our prayers. May we return again to our re¬spective employments armed with the whole armour ofGod, and determined in nothing wilfully to offend theeMay thy praise and love, thy power and glory, and themightiness of thy kingdom, be much in our thoughts,till at length we are brought to that everlasting sabbathwhere we shall no more need the use of these means ;«no more behold thee our God at a distance, and throughordinances darkly, but see thee face to face, and knowthee even as we are known.We desire now particularly to recommend to thymercy all who are united to us by the ties of kindred orspecial friendship. Let none of them slightly estimatethis holy day, or blindly think it enough to be merelypresent at the assemblies of thy people. May they everworship thee in spirit and truth, and esteem this daytheir delight.We beg thy mercy upon all those nations which yetsit in darkness and the shadow of death, that the Sunof Righteousness may arise upon them to guide theirfeet into the way of peace. O hasten the time, whenall thou hast promised concerning the church in the lastdays shall be accomplished ; bring in the fulness of theGentiles, and let all Israel be saved. Revive and causeto flourish in all places upon earth pure and undefiledreligion. Let the power of godliness prevail, and dailyobtain victory over the formality and hypocrisy of merenominal Christians.Particularly we recommend to thy protection andtenderest care, the kingdom in which we dwell. Weentreat thee to direct, sanctify, and govern the heartof our Sovereign Lord, the King. Prosper all his coun¬sels for the good of his subjects. May he live dear tothee, beloved of his people, and receive at thy hands,15after death, a croWit of glory. Bless the Royal Family,and all that are in authority over us.Take us this night, O our God, under thy protection.Watch over us whilst we sleep ; if we wake in thenight season, may our meditation of thee be sweet andour souls be glad in the Lord. If we are spared to seethe light of the returning day, may we rise from ourbeds to give alt diligence to walk before thee to all well¬pleasing.—And whether we wake or sleep, live or die,may we be the Lords. To him, with thee, 0 Father,and the Holy Ghost, be ascribed, as most due, ever¬lasting praise, might, majesty, and dominion.A PRAYER TO BE USED WHEN ANYMEMBER OF THE FAMILY IS SICK.Either entire as a Morning or evening Prayer for the Family or occasion¬ally with some of the Family, or in part, paragraphs, selected from itbeing added to the usual family devotions.O THOU infinitely great and glorious God, thou killestand makest alive. Thou woundest and thy hands makewhole. Thou Lriugest down to the grave, and bringestback again. Thou dost according to thy will in thearmies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of theearth; and none can stay thine hand or say unto thee.What dost thou? yet righteous art thou in all thyways, and holy in all thy works. Even when thouafiiictest, and causest trouble and heaviness to fall uponus, it is that we may learn righteousness from thy judg¬ments, and receive profit from thy correction.Wherefore, though thou hast not visited our housewith sickness, and art calling us to feumihation for oursins, yet we would still speak good of thy name, andlove and bless thee. We desire at this season to re¬member all the past mercies with which thou hast beenpleased to bless us and our household. God forbid thatour present grief should make us unmindful of the con-slant benefits we have enjoyed. How long has eachof our family lain down and risen up, gone out and comein, in health, strength, and peace ? How long has thei ?candle of the Lord shone upon us without intermission ? 4For these multiplied favours, blessed, 0 Lord, be thygood and holy name ; since the smallest of benefits ismore than we deserve, and the sharpest affliction less.To us, on account of transgressions, is most justlydue, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish.Wherefore then should living men complain, men andtransgressors, for the punishment of their sin ? Shallwe receive so much good at the hand of the Lord, andshall we not receive evil ? patiently and contentedlyreceive evil also ; tins temper we know, O Lord, is ourbounding duty; O form it in us. And as in greatcompassion to us, thou hast opened a way of relief forus under every trouble, by directing, commanding, andencouraging us in all our afflictions to pour out ourcomplaints unto thee, and tell thee of all we fear andfeel; to thee, 0 Father of mercies, do we make oursupplications at this time. O Lord be not far from us.In entire submission to thy most wise and holy will,we do now most earnestly pray for that person whosesickness fills us with so much concern. O look uponhim (or her) in his low estate ; sutler not we beseechthee, his disorder to proceed, and let not his sickness beunto death, but be for the manifestation of thy gracetowards us all. Thou knowest, Lord, his frame ; layno more upon him than thou wilt enable him to bearwith patience and quietness of mind. And O, thougreat Physician, without whom all others are of novalue, do thou direct to the most proper medecines, andbless the art of healing to his body, and our great com¬fort. In thy due time restore thy servant to healthand strength again, that he may have a longer day ofgrace and salvation, prove more useful, and do moregood in his geneneration.In the meantime, however, thou shalt think fit todispose of him, O sanctify unto him this affliction ; workin him deep humiliation for his sin ; bless him with re¬pentance unto life ; enable him by faith to behold the| 17Lamb ®f Gotl, and to trust in the fountain opened inhis blood for the remission of sins, that, being justifiedthrough faith, he may have peace -with God throughJesus Christ our Lord. Make all his bed in his sick¬ness, and let patience have its perfect work in his soul.Raise him up to praise thy name, to pay those vows hemakes in trouble before the assembly of thy saints, andto walk in newness of life. But if thou dost not see fitto spare thy servant, whom we are now rememberingbefore thee, O prepare every one of this family accord¬ing to our several relations, for the awful stroke. Withrespect to himself, if the dime of Iris departure drawethnigh, 0 let his heart be comforted by the promises inChrist, and taste that thou art gracious unto him. Mayhis soul be safe and happy at the hour of death ; and inthe great day of the Lord Jesus Christ may be foundamong those who died for him.And help us all, who are now in health, to improvethis loud and solemn call to prepare for our own sicknessand disease. Let us not abuse our bodily strength toencourage ourselves in sinful security and impenitence.Grant that we may always be ready, by performing thewill of our Lord, that whensoever he shall come, wemay be found of him in peace and enter into his joy ;that whenever onr health is turned into sickness, andour strength into weakness, and our ease into sharppain, we may not be cast down or perplexed, but feelin our souls those supports and consolations, which theworld cannot give, nor death itself take away.Hear us, O Lord our God, in these our humble re¬quests > forgive us our sins; and accept our persons,and our services, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.A THANKSGIVING FOR THE RECOVERYOF A SICK MEMBER.Most gracious and holy, good and merciful God ! wehave heard, we have seen, we have experienced thylove. Blessed, for ever blessed be thy name, that in¬stead of being known to us by the judgments our sins18have deserved, thou art manifested to us as the Godwilling to forgive all our iniquities. Thou hast deliveredour eyes from tears, and our hearts from anguish. Thyservant, whom thou hast lately afflicted, is now a monu- jment of thy sparing mercy. Thou hast chastised andcorrected him, (or her') but thou hast not delivered himover unto death. Thou hast turned our mourning intijoy, and our fears into songs of praise.O may this thy servant have been spared in order tolive hereafter to the glory of thy name.—We beseechthee, perfect all that concerns lik recovery; and grant !that this gracious interposition may properly effect bothhim and every one of us in this family. From hence¬forth may we all more entirely depend upon thee for thecontinuance and preservation of our dearest earthlycomforts: may we consider them as .thy free gifts, (JLord, and know that they alone tnakest every earthlyblessing be to us what it is.And give us grace so to use and enjoy all our tem¬poral comforts, as those who know that the fashion oftins world passeth away. Grant we may learn, fromthis late affliction in our family, to live more like per-?sons who are soon to be separated by death, and togive all diligence to grow rich towards God, that wemay be better prepared for a breach in our family when¬ever it shall come. And whensoever, O God, thoushalt be pleased to call any of us away, though for a jseason our family may thus be separated, may we all beunited again in heaven, and be for ever with the Lordand with one another.That we may none of us fall short of so glorious anend, 0 give us a clear knowledge of the excellency ofour God, and a firmer dependence upon the word of thygrace. Grant us a strong love to the Lord Jesus Christ, fand a greater resemblance of him; that each of us inour particular station may be zealous for God, full ofmercy and justice towards men, and possess every tem¬per whereby God can be glorified in us.Fill our minds with a more cheerful and lively sense219P oar obligations to thee, especially for this late add!-anal mercy: write it, we beseech thee, on oiir hearts,) that no temptation from without, or corruption fromithin, may make us ever act as if we forgot it.And now, O Lord, we again present both ourselvesnd family, all we have and all we are, a lively sacrificento thee for all our remaining days. Be with us whene are passing through the valley of the shadow oteath; may we then fear no evil, nor have cause to;ar any. Guard us through the gloomy passage, andring us safe to thine eternal kingdom and glory. Weumbly ask all these blessings, though utterly unworthyurselves of any notice, in the name of Jesus Christ ouriOrd, who ever liveth to make intercession for us. Amen.i’OR THE DUE DISCHARGE OF DOMES¬TIC DUTIES.P O LORD and heavenly Father, who has commanded> is concientiously to discharge each duty we owe one to! nother, take away, we beseech thee, from us all stub-j omness, pride, and self-conceit; all envy, hatred, and11-will, which would lead us to despise thy graciousestraints, and destroy that harmony which thou wouldesttave to reign in every family. From the least to thegreatest member of each house, give them grace to walk>efore thee unto all well-pleasing.Teach and incline servants to do their work withingleness of eye, as unto Christ: to be ambitious ofserving their masters with all fidelity, and of preventingill just cause of anger or rebuke from them for obsti-racy, sloth, or carelessness. Grant them wisdom toxmsider their station not as any hardship, much less anydis*. race to them, but as the post which thy fatherly loverath appointed them to fill. Give them to understand,to their great peace and strong consolation, that by do¬ing their work from a principle of faith and love to ChristJesus, they may stand as high in thy favour, and growas rich towards God, as if their condition entitled them,to all respect from the world. Aud may they never' 20imagine they are religious and Christians altogetherany longer than they abstain from all those frauds amdeceits which tlfey are tempted to use for filthy lucre’;sake.Be merciful and gracious, O Cod, to all heads anagovernors of families. Save them from haughtiness acarriage, from passionate reproaches, and every kind aunchristian treatment of their inferiors and dependents;O ! convince the rich that it is not their .merit, but thjprovidence alone that makes the difference of station,and appoints the subordination: not that they shoulabe as tyrants in their houses, and imperious to theilservants, but that they should add to the comfort oithose who are under them. Enable them, therefore,carefully to avoid hurting those who labour for them,by their ffowardirss, and behaving towards them withsuch rudeness, as they would be ashamed to shew toany equal. Imprint upon their minds a lively remem¬brance that they have a master in heaven, who is netrespecter of the persons of men, before whom bothmasters and servants must give a strict and solemn ac-icount of their behaviour to each other. Inspire all whoipreside in families not only with justice, but with mercy;and piety towards their servants. Like the good cen¬turion, whose praise is in the gospel, may they sympa-jthize with them in all their afflictions, be glad to allevi¬ate their burden, when sickness and old age oppressthem, and to sweeten the bitter cup that is appointed'them to drink. Give them grace to teach their servantsthe fear of the Lord by their own example, and to lettheir light so shine before them, that they may be ledto glorify God also, in whose hands is their breath, andwhose are all their ways.Dispose, O Lord, the hearts of all parents to receive!and obey the commands addressed in a peculiar mannerito them. Teach them always to regard their ehildraJas immortal souls intrusted to their care, and for whose,nurture and admonition in the fear of the Lord they are;strictly answerable; and may they esteem it their|21I ealef t pleasure, and their highest honour, to be teach-g their children the sacred truth, when they sit withh cm in the house, and when they walk by the way,I hen they lie down, and when they rise up. Give themI observe with hearts sensibly affected, the natural de-avity too apparent in every one of their offsprings, andj i be solicitous to bring them by early discipline andt struction to him who alone can deliver from it. MakeH lem vigilant to check the first sallies of their vile affce-| ons, to furnish them with the means of knowing Godl: id Jesus Christ whom he hath sent, and to habituateiem from their childhood to some profitable employmentf their time, and their understanding, as they are ablej bear it. Keep all parents from setting a bad exampleefore the eyes of their children, and so teaching themn evil lesson against themselves; And may they dreadothing more than the insupportable doom of being con-emned as accessaries to tlie damnation of their Ownhildren by their worldliness, sensuality and neglect ofheir souls. And as thou knowest that no parents,arejf themselves sufficient, to educate their children accefd-ng to thy will, O ! do thou fill them with wisdom andiiscretioh. Guide them continually with thine eye,letween the extremes of shewing a false indulgence orin irksome severity to the fruit of their own bodies;'Bless altogether the relation thou hast established be¬tween them, so that parents may have the joy of seeingtheir children growing up as pleasant plants before thee,and children have reason to rise up and call their parentsblessed, and to praise God for them in time and in eter¬nity.And thou, O God, so influence and form the mindsof all children, and turn their hearts towards their par¬ents, that they may behave towards them with all.reverence, obedience and love ; not stubborn -when cor¬rected for their faults, not heedless when instructed, notungrateful to forget how much they are bound to ad¬minister to the comfort of their parents and to requitthem.22In an especial manner we beg of thee, 0 God, tbs tWe of this family, who are now kneeling before the imay be forgiven for Christ’s sake, all the instances < i;which we have been guilty, of irreverence, unkindnes? j; jand passion one towards ancther. Make us sensible « '$our transgressions, heartily sorry for them, and moj livigilant for the future. 0 give unto us, and ever &family, more of thy grace and power, that we may hof one mind, who dwell together in one house on earths lrthat at the last day, when we appear to take our triaat the bar of God, we may not be accusers of each otherffor exercising any malevolence of temper, but witness^of the grace of our common Lord in making us dwd '''together in perfect amity and Christian Love. Grant! ?"O God, these our petitions, and let us all perceive th f!'accomplishment of them by the increase of harmony! i"peace, and love amongst ourselves. We ask it for th ^sake, and through the intercession of our Lord and Sa- ;Lviour, Jesus Christ. Amen.UPON THE OCCASION OF A DEATH OFFUNERAL.May all the appointments of thy providence, 0 Lord,be profitable to the souls of thy people. Visit the mem¬bers of this house of mourning with thy favour, and letthem know and feel, that thou art an all-sufficient help,in time of trouble. Knowing that we have no continu¬ance in this life, but pass our days, as a tale, which hasbeen told, may we act a wise and a worthy part, thatwe may find peace to our souls, in every time of review,,and have good hopes in the prospect of the world toicome.Be as a Father to the fatherless, the protector of thewidow, and the orphan’s stay. Bless those who arejintimately, and feelingly connected, with the present!dispensation of thy providence, and according to thecircumstances of their lot, grant them ccN'solation. Asthe depth and the length of their sorrows have been, sodo thou comfort them and wipe away their tears. By223 ^the sadness of the countenance may the affections becomebetter, and the conduct improved, that the heart maybe spiritually glad. Give them an interest in the bless*ings of redeeming love, and let the assurance of everlasting life pour joy into their afflicted souls. Forgive,O Lord, the manifold transgressions of those who mourn,and the multiplied sins of all thy children, and acceptof us, and thy penitent people every where, accordingto thy mercies in Christ our Lord and Saviour.FOR A SICK CHILD.Almighty and most merciful Father* have compas-( sion upon us in the day of trouble, and let this child live,' by whose afflictions we are afflicted. Suffer not the(hope of thy servants to be disappointed, but if death bein the cup, sanctify the dispensation, comfort themourner, and receive the departing spirit into the fellow¬ship of the saints on high. If life shall be prolonged,let gratitude prevail in the hearts of those, who arenearly connected, and let all diligence be given to train:iiup the child, in the paths of wisdom and piety, and mayrjevery endeavour to promote a virtuous and holy life besuccessful, through Christ our Lord.THE LORD’S PRAYER.Fur Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name,rhy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is inneaven. Give us day by day our daily bread ; forgiveus our tresspasses, as we forgive those who have ties- .passed against us ; and lead us not into temptation, butdeliver us from evil; for thine is the kingdom and thepower and the glory, for ever. Amen.GRACES FOR YOUNG PERSONS.U said by an Individual, the Singular must be used instead of the Plural.*BEFORE MEAT.The eyes of all things wait upon thee, O Lord, andthou givest them their food in due season. Enable us24to receive all thy bh-PMny^, with becoming affections Jin'.nil; anff^ar.rtify the present instance of tl^y bounivthioygli Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.Tiilt mercies, O Lord, are renewed unto us dayday, though by our sinfulness and disobedience, we arunworthy of thy favour. But do thou forgive eurfold transgressions, sanctify us in all our undertaldggand* bless the offered mercies, through Christ our Luiand Saviour.' ^Ainen. _ i J'.., AFTER MJJAT.We thank tliee, O Lord, for the continued boftht**thy providence, and while our bodies are strengtlieaeby their daily food, cherish our souls by thy heaven!grace. Forgive, we beseech thee, our numerous sinsand accept of our acknowledgments for tins and everinstance of tiiy goodness, through Christ our LordAmen.• rtwWe give thee prafsb, 0 Lord, .for all the blessingsthis life, amf'for the hopes'of future glory. Acceptour thu.nksfoV ef<4y mercy.weTdceive, and to thy natff'tlirough'Christ the Lord, be ascribed the praise, riOiand for ever. : Amen.