St. Paul’s Behaviour towards theCivil Magillrate,ASERMON,PREACHED AT THEASSIZES AT HERTFORD.By the Right ReverendBENJAMIN HOADLEY, D. D.Late Bifhop of Winchefter.And publifhed at the reqoeft of the High-Sheriffand Grand-Jury.As all Government is bailt upon Law, and all Law i»fupporred by the due execution and regular adminiftra-tion of Juftice, which is the grand end and defign ofboth: So there is nothing that does mbre effedlual-ly overturn its foundation, countermine anddefeat its good intention, and utterly difap-poinf and evacuate its force and power,!than a perfonal prejudice, or a blind,merteniry, and b&fe Partiality. Sad.THE SECOND EDITION.LONDON 5HUNTED FOR T. CHILPE, BOOKStLLER M.DCCTIlf,REPRINTED BY J. N£ ILSON FOR GEORGECALDWELL) BOOKSELLER) PAISLEY,i8j8.TORichard Houblon, Efquire,High-bheriff of the County of Hertford,Sir John Spencer, Bart.Sir Ral. Radcliffe, Kt.Sir Tho. Clarke, Kt.William Brifcoe, Efq;Joftiua Lomax, Efq;Francis Flyer, Efq;George Hadley, Efq;William Berners, Efq;Tho. Woodcock, Efq;IVIr. Rich. Rigby.Mr. Jonath. Smart.Mr. Rich Corey.Mr. Rich. Wiltfhaw.Mr. John Warren.Mr. Matth Game.Gentlemen of the Grand-Jury,This Sermon, publifhed at their requeft, , Iis moft humbly dedicated.Jul| 26th 1708.Paul's 'Behaviour towards the Civil Magijlrate.| A&s xxii. 2 5. And as they bound him withthongs, Paul /aid unto the centurion thatflood by. Is it lawful for you to fccurgea man that is a Roman, and uncon-| demned ?IT being my defign to fpeak fomethiagat this time concerning the nature ofI laws, and the great advantage of them tothe well being of human fociety, I thinki it not improper to found what I have to1 fay upon the behaviour of St. Paul, as itI is recorded in the of the Apoftles,! with refpeft to his civil privileges, and tohis civil fuperiors and judges. And Ichufe to do fo, becaufe this will at oncegive us feme light into the true interpre¬tation of the doftrine, delivered by himfelfand others in the New Teftament, concern¬ing Government; and lead us'intofomeliufefal obfervations relating to the happinefs^ ibf human fociety.I I. I propofe to give you a brief view ofithe behaviour of St. Paul, as it is recordedin the A&s of the Apoftles, with refpettto thofe civil rights and privileges, towhich the laws of the Roman or Jewifljijlate entitled him; and to thofe civil ma*4giftrates, and judges, before whom hehad occafion to appear. Aad,l. In the chapter now before us, thechief captain, who appears to hare a&ed •the part of a civil raagiftrate as well as ofa commanding officer in Jerufaiem, refolv-iag to find out what it was that had fo !much incenfed the whole multitude sgainfi: |St. Paul, commanded him to be fcourged, jin order to his own confeffion of his crime.St. Paul could have borne this ufage withss great Chriftian patience, and Romanfortitude, as any man living: and no manknew the true glory of fuffering wrong¬fully better than he. But inftead of this,he feems to think it a much more becom- fing part to infill upon thofe civil privileges 1which the laws of the flare entitled him to,as he was free of the city of Rome. Is it ’lawful for you to fcourge a man that is aRoman, and uncondemned^ was the quef-lion which he thought fit at this time to:afk. If a certain fct of notions had beeui.embraced in thofe days, feme of his fel-Jow-chriftians might perhaps have inform-!ed him that the laws were but a dead letterthat what the executive power ordained!was law, though contrary to all the lawsthen in force; that he who was but a fub- >je& was no proper judge of his own rights,;and ought not to give fo ill a precedent toother fubjefts as might encourage them tof* '5.dare ta judge when their privileges wereinvaded; and much more, that he being aChriftiaa, and an apoftle, a follower of acrucified Mailer, and a preacher of thedo&rine of the crofs, ought not to Ihew!any concera about worldly rights and pri¬vileges ; but think it a glory rather to givethem up to the mvafion of his fuperiors.Ihus, l fay, might fome Chriftians havetaught St. Paul to have behaved himfelf.But he, we find, was of another opinion ;and had very differing fentiments concern¬ing thefe matters. He thought it no argu¬ment of a chriltian fpirit to fuffer any thing;; which he could honourably avoid ; and he• thought it honourable to piead the pri¬vileges of a fubjedl againlt the encroach-■ meats of the higher powers: and fo heappeals to the laws, and claims the right ofbeing uled by the executive power noiit jotherwife than as they direft... If we follow him a little farther, w&jjlhallfind him in the next chapter brought,]by order of the fame chief captam, beforeithechiel priefts and councii of the jews,co fee how he could acquit himfelf to them.tto^iDpon his declaring his fincerity, and up-rightnefs the high-prielt, Ananias, com-'landed them that flood by to finite him on'he mouth. St. Paul's reply was very fevere,Zo dihall finite thee thou whited wall:For futefl tbou there to judge me after tbsA iiiw, and tommandejl nv to be f/nitten con- |. * / 7  9 — ^ A - .1 . 1. !tr ary to the law? v. 3 And th^qjhafterwards repeated him of the reproachful .word he gave the high prielt in his anger, Iyet he repeated oat or the juft feofe hehad of the illegal indignity offered nim; ofof his zial againf all fuch magiflrates asaftei again 1: the end of their oHi:e, andagainf thofe laws by which they ought to- f,be governed in the execution of it. Here oagain it is evident that this great apofliehad the fpirit of liberty in hi a; andthought that thofe laws which were mad?for the fecurity and guard of it, were not tcbe difpenfed with at the pleafure of thofdwhofe bufmefs ir was to execute themHere again we find him pretending to kno\and judge of, his own civil privileges; an!not tamely fubmitting to the violationthem. If fome chriflians of laterhad lived in his time, and been wirneijof this, they would not only have find, rvile/2 thou God's high priest ? but woujihave afked him how he being a fubjei^nd a chriftian, could anfwer to his ovconfcience his thinkiog any fubjeflsjndges of the invafion of their own 'vileges; they would have reprehendedfeverelyfor placing himfelf above his jud£and turning the world upfidedown ;making fubjeefs rulers, and rulers lubjejas they love to fpeak, by this prepofterj'i Wiy of pleading his privileges even whiKl)i he ftooJ before a courr of judicature. But;it is very plain, that as no man was morezealous for the honour and veneration offuch magiflrates as anfwe:- the ends or theiroffice, which is the fupport of human fo-ciety; fb no man could exprefs a morei hearty difhke of thofe who a<ffed a contraryH part; or a greater concern for the temporal•; good eftate of fubjefts, even amidff hisncontinual labours and cares for the eternali happinefs of all men. Once more,3 If we look back as far as the xvith| chapter, we fhall find a yet greater proofof this. The magiffrates of Philippi com¬manded Paul and Silas to be beaten ivithmany flripes, and cajl into prifon, v. 2 3.but the next morning, font to the keeperof the pnfon to let them go, v. 35. St.Paul’s anfwer is very obfervable, They havebeaten us openly uncondemned, being Romans,and have cafl us into prifon: and now dothey tbrujl us out privily ? Nay, verily, butlet them come themfelves and fetch us out.He was juft now delivered out of prifon bya wonderful {hock of the earth about it;and fo might have efcaped before this re-leafe was brought from the magiftrates:but after fuch a good natured meffage fromthem, one would think, he might havequietly departed. It would have been butthe compliance of a Gibjeft with a lawfulrequetT of his fapperior?. Yet th;s greaapsille did not think it honourable to goaway without exprcffing fome refentraentagainft the invafion ot the privileges of thefubjcfl which the magiftrates had been,guilty of; and without pleading the caufeof injured inferior*. He continues refolutetill thefe rcagiftrates themfeives had waitedupon him, and defi ed him to depart out ofthe city, v. 39. And here again, howJwould fome, who pretend to found theirnotions of thefe matters upon this veryapotile, have reprehended any other manin the fame circumftances ? Anfwereft thouthe vicegerents of God fo i Where is theprofound refpeft due to that order inflitur-ed by God himfeli? V. here is the fenfe ofthe duty of fubjc&s? Nay, where is govern- ;ment itfelf, if fubje^ls may be allowed tO'judge of the invafion of their own privileges,and if law's muff be placed above the de¬terminations of the executive power ? Butabove all, where can there be a flop, when:obedience is refufed to a lawful injun&ioniiof the magiftratr, and to what might with-|out Cn be complied with ? W horn thereforefhall we follow ? thofe who fpeak after thismanner ? or St. Paul, who knew as well asthey the duty owing to magiftrates, and ye; r igave not up his own judgement to themt |f^but, though a fubjeft, and affing the partlyof a fubjeft, took upon him (by what thefe.!: perfcns might perhaps cal! a flubbora be¬haviour) to bring the magiftrates themlelvesto a fsnfe cf that iavafion they had madeupon the rights and privileges of Romanfubjs&s; and this, though the invafion ap¬pears to have been made merely throughan hafty miftake. Of fo great confeqnencedid he think it to oppofe one fingle inftanceof illegal oppreffion!Thus have 1 given you a true accountof the molt remarkable p^fiages recorded: concerning St. Paul’s behaviour with re-fpeft to his civil privileges, and to thofemagiftrates before whom he had occafion toappear. If any one fay, all this relatesonly to deputed or inferior magitlrates, notto the fupreme ; I anfwer, that it cannot re¬late to one without relating to the other,becanfe government cannot be managed inthe world but by deputed and inferior of-I fleers; becaufe if every one of them mayI be thus ufed by fubje&s in any cafe, it isto little purpofe to exempt the fupremefrom the like ufages, fmee the fame fortof diflurbsnees, and evil eonfequcnces, willfollow as if the fupreme might be treatedafter the fame manner; becaufe the chriftianreligion ''as St. Peter teftifieth) commandsthe obedience required in it, with refpeftto both ; becaufe otheiwife the argumenturged by fome for the magidrate’s uncon-troulable authori:y; drawn from cur Lo d si10acknowledging the power of Piiate to bfrom above, wno was but adeputed governor!muft fall to the ground; becaufe both ftpreme and inferior are faid to aft as oauthority, by the fame divine commiilionand fo are equally borne out by it againft aoppofuioDjOr at leaft equally elevated abovall pretences of fubjefts to judge concernin;their conduft: and becsufe the fubjeft’jduty is equally to both fubmiffion, and norefinance; the authority of both beingtiraately refolved into the divine ccmmiiTIo;and it being as impoffible to oppofe, in aninftance, the lowed officer in authoritiwithout oppofing the fuprerne, as it is fatto be, to oppofe the fupreme, without q:pofmg. God himfelf, whofe vicegerent his. I proceed, in the fecond place,IL To confider if this account of SPaul’s behaviour will not give us light \nthe true interpretation of the doftrirdelivered by himfelf, and others in thNew Teftament, concerning governmenand lead us to Some obfervations of imporarce to governed focieties, and to thatparticular to which we belong. For calany one think that thefe paftages weilrecorded for nothing, but to ferve foren beliifhment of St. Paul’s dory ? or cany one think tnat St Paul had a regardhis own particular worldly intered in theparts of his conduft ? fie that fudered, ai'jiew he was to fufFer much greater hard-Ifps r He that was ready to give up hise for the fake of chriftianity, and tojiflow his Mafler through ail indignities,1 al! perfecutions, when the glory ofpd tlaouid call him to it ? No, it was fome-ng more than his o wn part in this world'|ich engaged him to (hew hi.nfelf afters manner; for this he could with theated eafe have negle&ed. But theip'mefs of human fociety, and the gooditteof the inferior part of mankind, movedI foul to a generous indignation againfttry thing in government which favouredtyranny ; and kindled in his bread a• I for every thing which it was fit forlefts to enjoy. Let us therefore fee ifjjbehaviour will not lead us to fome ufefulii important thoughts relating to Chrif-s incorporated in civil focieties.!, I need not take particular notice thati ' " Paul thought it not beneath a chriltiaa,•f!l! an apoftle, to concern himfelf with his|rs and privileges, as he was a fubjeft oftsfi^feoinaD date. He knew, as well as anyV.his time, that he belonged toacityabovesi fe builder is God; he kuew that hisfi1 f concern was eternity and heaven ; heibt: v that no tyrannical magiitrate couldv ; aim of his innocence, or of his falvation,i'cc he confidered himfelf hkewife as a;ber of human fociety, and afted the12part of one who had a juft fenfe of theprivileges of his dtizenlhip here on earth,as well as of that citizenftiip in Heaven,which he fpeaks of to the Philippians andEphefians. And why fhould it be thoughiunwo'thy of any other Preachets of theGofpel, to imitate fo great an example, irthe fame great concern for the good ohuman foci tty? To proceed,2, Let St. Paul h:mfelf anfwer all thofwho have, on his authority, pretended tjexalt the executive powers above ad laws|and above the very ends of that office ftjwhich they were infiituted. He, it is plaiiknew nothing of this; -.nor did he carry twobligatibn of a quiet fi.bmiifion to any fu*finftances as were contrary to the defignthat office. Let them learn from himfijthat when he fpeaks highly of magiflratit is of fuch who are gods indeed in hurfociety ; fuch as maintain the chara&erdignity of their rtation by anfwcringends ofir; and that when they defcenciinvade the privileges they were ordaine'lguard, he knew no fuch profound reffto be due to them. Let them learnhim that the Lws of the Roman ft-teabove the executive power; and thatauthority of the magiftrate could not n Mthat law,which wasagainft the writtenor oblige him to comply with what #injurious to his civil privileges. 1 etlearn from him that he underftood not hisMatter’s doftrine concerning the governorsof this world, to extend beyond the pri¬vileges and happinefs of the governed fo-;ciety ; and that he himfelf, in his ownidodrine, delivered in other places, meant^nothing contrary to thefe. Let them learnfrom this pradice, which is certainly thebeft interpreter of his own dodrine, andthat of his Matter and fellow-apoftles, that;when he faith, there is no power but of Gsd,\tbe powers that be are ordained of God;and that when his great Matter acknow¬ledges the power of Pilate to be from above,no more could be meant, than that it wasf.|tgreeab!e to God’s will that fome perfonsdiould be inverted with power for the good• : bf human fociety ; not that God had madejhem uncontroulable in ading againft hiscommiflion, and to the ruin of their fellow-creatures. Let them learn that when St.Paul commanded refped, and forbid op;.'tofitiou to the higher powers; and that!/hen St, Peter commanded the fame fub-edion both to the fupreme and deputedjnagiftrates, they were conndered as ading|he beft part in the world : and nothingntended by this to oblige fubjeds to aj.uiet fubmiffion to fuch illegal, and unjuft:londud, as affeds and (hakes the univerfalt™r-t • Uppinefs. And,B7 43. If they (H!I repear the old queflion. Whi'Itfhall judge of the invrfion of priviffgesLet the fame St. Paul anfwer them, uho iu.the capacity of a fubjetff, more than orce,is recorded (in the Ihort hiftory we have cfhis anions'* to have prefumed to judge con¬cerning his own privileges agiin'ii the invafion of the magiftrate ; and to have donthis as by a right belonging to every mem¬ber of the fame fociety. His Chriffiani:)|did not make him forget that he wasRoman : and as a Roman he judged that h|had the privileges of a Roman : and thehis chriftianity did not oblige him to gi,,i|up to any moral, as long as he could wi lhonour keep them. 1 he poflibility of himiftaking in this, in which he a£fed ncas an apoflle, was no argument to bin,againfl: this right: nor did the weaknefs (other men’s judgements prevail with hirnot to fet them an example of judging ithe like circumftances. What ccnfufid)what diforder. fay fome. muff enfue,fubjeffs be allowed tojudge concerning tfinvafion of their own rights and privilegeBut let them believe St, P.iu! for once, thimuch more mifery muff enfue upon hum;fociety, if it be a fettled point that tilexecutive powers may absolutely, and witiicut controul, determine what they pieconcerning the inferior part of the worIf any one afk where he fa ilh ihis; 1 arilf ^3*!5pis behaviour freaks it alcuJ; for he never.vould have afted the part which he did,ijrould he have thougiit it more for publici|>ood that fab]efts ihould give up all theiradgeinents to the determination of theirnagiftrates, than that they ikon Id judget oncerning the violation of their commonights after the bell manner they could,ec not men therefore forget modefly ioinch as to laugh oat of countenance thisight of judging in fubjefts, which St.aui himfelf claimed merely as he was abjeft.4. Let thoi’e learn it from St. Paul who'Hi nor bear it fiom others, that rightsd privileges, liberty and property, andhe like, are not words fitted only to raifeje fpirits of the people, and to fomentluibances in fociety; but that they areings worth contending for. Some mayink (unlefs refpeft to an apoflie a littleliven them from it) v.hu great matter ifPaul had borne a Lttle fcourging ? orhy could not he pHs over the injuries"'cred him by his governors ? i o which Iow no better an! wer than this, that hishaviour was what it was, merely becaufeey were inagilratesj that is, becaufewas a cafe not of concern to himfelf only,t to human fociety, For he could bear,d pafs by injuries as well as any mand had they been private perfons who hadi6offered him the fame indignities, I doubtnot, he had borne them without any return .but that of forgivenefs But when thecivil privileges of that fociety to which hebelonged were invaded by thofe whofeduty and profeffion it was to maintain them,he thought it a juft occafion to (hew his I!, :fenfe of fo great an evil; though it im¬mediately touched only himfelf. Theconfideration of the character and office of |thofe who offered the injuries, was fo far 'from determinvag him to pafs them overwith filence, (according to fome men’s’way of arguing) that it was this very thing ;,that made him look upon them not as pri-vate injuries, but with a refentment due toinjuries of a public and univerlal concern.And however fome may ridicule the liber¬ties of fubjefls, St. Paul, it is plain, wasfor ffandingyhj^, not only inthe liberty with which Christ Gal. v. J.had made him free from theJewifli law of ceremonies; but alfu in thatliberty wit a which the Invs of nature, andof the Roman date, had made him free .from oppreflion and tyranny. For,5. It is another obfervation which wemay make fromhis example, thathethoughtthe end of written laws to be the fccurityof the fubjeft againft any arbitrary proceed- .ings of the executive power; and that this .could not be, uolefs the executive wereg-)ver^ed by' thele bws, as well as thelubjeft. It' this hid not been his opinion,it had been frivolous for hicn to have urgedhis privileges founded upon the laws; byurging of which he plainly implies that theywere the laeafure of the magidrate’s be-in iviour towards the fubjeft. And 1 hopeit is the fame ia all the like edabliflaments.B it how contrary is this to the maxims offorne who make the laws infignihcant trifles,and place the wid of the executive powerabo/e them-; declaring that otherwife therecan be no fuch thing as government ? Bywhich word they generally feem to under¬hand lomething beyond fuch a governmentas is for the good of the governed fociety.Blow contraiy is this to fuch as make writ-i tea laws only an encroachment upon thejabfolute power inflituted by God; and1 (lady to make their power as contemptiblel as they can, that the ueceffity of absolute\ monarchy may the better appear; and boadi of their fervices this way as if they werelof the greateft importance ? If thefe no-i: tions be embraced, what muft be thoughtI of St. Paul, under the Roman hate, whoI thought it his happinefs to have rights,(land privileges fettled fcy written laws?n Whit tnud; we think of the wifeft nation*tiin former times, who could devi.fe nogreater fecurity againfl opprtflion andli^unhappinefs ift focieties than laws ? And ifI 13,18we come home to ourfelves, what muft wethink of the envied conhitutioa under whichwe live, and, by the virtue and power ofJaws al! enjoy the chief happinefles thathuman life can vvifh for ? What muff wethink of that revolution, in which high andlow fo iifMnimoufly joined, chiefly to re-fcue our laws from a difpenfjog power, andto dived the executive from all pretencesio a fupcriority over the legiflative ? Andwhat mud we think of thofe magidrates,Whom the prefent age beholds with venera¬tion, and ages to come will remember witheternal honour ; who, though ccinmiflion-cd by the fupreme executive power, yetfcknowledge no rule of their conduct butwhat is preferibed to them by the legifla¬tive; and account it their chiefed glory tobe the guardians of the laws, as they areof the liberties of the people ?The judicious Mr Hookerthinks that human focietiesfir A made a trial of govern¬ment by the will of one man,(as their flrd eflay mightwcil be the word and moft imperfect) endthat they were conftrained to come to lawsas a remedy againd the evils of that kind ofregimen, after they had found (as his ex-prefiion is) “that to live by one man’s will“ was the caufe of all men’s mifery.”This agrees with St, Paul, who plainlyEcclef. po¬lity, book I-§• 10.KofCO•O'—- J ■ . -,»9j nought that laws were a fufficient curb tone arbitrary v</il! of the executive power:ut in vain did he contend in hi? days; inc ain have the wifeft of men difcourfed ine ll ages; aud in vain is abfolute power: ontrouled by fuccef? of arms in our own3 ;mes, if we can live to be perfuded, eitheri nat there is no difference in g wernments;r that there is no guard in laws againftfbitrary power; nor any force in themut what muft bend to the will of thofe: 'hofe office it is to execute and defendmem. A lafting liberty is founded uponi Kws; and is the refult of a good conftitu-ci«on of government, as health is of a rightklionflitution of body. In this alfo, likewealth, that it is valued mofl by thofe whoi now the tafle of it, under the firftpprehenfion, or fenfe of the want of it,>ut little prized by thoughtlefs men undersii fecure and unfhaken enjoyment; whilftr.avery, like ficknefs, to thofe who neverft fled it, feems nothing; and to thofe who4ave been oppreffed long enough to forgetiilVhat liberty is, becomes the more tolerable;••'is a bodily indifpofition doth to fuch asJltnow not, or defpair of, a better (late.{rut is it not very unacountable, that blef-ngs ffiould be undervalued by weak men>r that fecurity which fliould recommendtfiem-; nay, that curfes fhould be invitedff own from Heaven in the room of them ?That vvhefi the incoinederces of abfoiuteindnirchy made iiicn liiit fly to laws for ]refoge, ihey ibon’l ever flyback againfrom what ihey u.uft acknowledge theirbappinefs, and cal! for chat abfeiiue powerto difpenfe with thtfe laws, which tliefelaws were purpofely defigued andiuflicutedto comroul and coefine ? but thus it is evenat this day,after the experience of fc> n anyages; even amoegfl ourfelves, after fograteful and p ealing a tafte of the b’ef-fings of a legal conlticution ; even underthe mofl uneorrupt, unblameab’e admini-ftraiiou of juflice and equity that ever anynation was blcfied with, bu;, to return,6. bt. Paul’s heha\iour fhou’d, me thin Its,upon ftcoud cot flderadon, make fomef.erfons a ii tlc more cautious of affirming;abfoiute monarchy, limned with a powerabove all the euacachmcms of written laws,to be the t idya m ag■rcccible to the will of itfri"' ■ ■God: nay .il you can hear it withoutfmiling,the mofl benefici-1 to the fubjeft. For letany one tell me, whether, upon thisprinciple, it had not been the duty of Sr.Paul to have taken the opportunity offered t>l,him of owning the fuperior power of the : :f;magiflrate ; of acknowledging the little ufelof laws to human fociety; and of ftiewingthe Chriflian reiigion to be a great friendjthough not to the lawlefs confufton of themultitude, yet to the lawlefs power of thef inagiftrate. This had been a noble pieceof fervice, not only to truth, but to human;,;fociety, according to fome : and I prefume. St. Paul knew the will, and the plain re-svelation. of God as well at leaft as any: modern Chriftian ; and would gladly haveI ifufiered a few ftripes, in order to beari itedimony to fo important a part of God’s; Jaw. Nor need he have doubted this wayitohave turned the anger of the magidrates: into favour, and a kind regard both tohimfelf and his profeffion. But he appears:to have been a ftranger to all this: and1 his zeal for the laws fhews that he thoughtEboth the will of God, and the good offociety, to require another fcheme thanthat of an unlimited executive power.Thus have I laid before you a trueAccount of the behaviour and notions ofthat apodle, in favour of the rights ofJfubje&s, who hath been long, and often,rieprefented by many as the greated afler-i*er of an unlimited authority in the execu-live pover: and though I have beenireating of civil and fecular concerns, yet Iohope I may be fafe under the patronage of•f$t. Paul’s example, and of thofe fcriptures’which give us this acconnr of his conduftand behaviour, as of fomething not unufe-Ijful to men and chridians. Nor is it a fmallfjfatisfaffion to fpeak upon this fubjeft beforeJthofe who underdand the value and import-ance of wholefome laws; anJ Icnow howro fcoru all the homage or :efjxft of menbut what refults fro.il an uabi ;(bd and ua-iaterrupced adminillratioa of j a dice.And now, if St Paul ihew.d fo gVeat arcfpeft to the written laws of that (lateunder which he lived; if he thought icworth his while (whofe grand affair was topropagate a new religion, and the bJiefof a fuwire Hate) to concern himfelf fomuch with this world as to iaful upon hisrights and privileges, as he was a fubjeft,and to (liew no ordinary regard to them ; ifhe thought it the happinefs of a kingdomto have fuch privileges as are fit for fubj.ctsfettled by law, and a happiucfs not to belliaken at the will of the executive power;if he thought that fubjccb might judgeconcerning the invafion of thefe pffvileges,and were not brought into being to fubmicto every thing impofed upon them ; let uslearn from fo great an eximple to valueour own happinefs in that legal edablilh-meut under which we live, and live fo asto enjoy life His exunple bids ns plainlyHand fait in our liberty fupported by laws.Let this move us more titan the fallaciousdifputatioas of thofe who ate continuallydeclaiming againH this happinefs, and en¬deavouring to peri'uade us to change it foranother foit of government; arguing thebenefit of this to outfeives, and the tight■p*s inrimi n :    Tor, in others. And, left we fliould net be.moved to a ch ange, tue argument is fome-times turned, and we are to be informed,jthat otrr whole notion oflibei ty isamiftak-en c^imeraf and nocr°nfe; that whereaswe think we, have laws to govern tv, it isonly the will of the executive which ru'es;that whereas we think thefe laws are madeby the confer;t avd airh-wity of ;ue regre-fentatives of the people, it is no At.chthing; that it is the prirce. only who... enacts that no other have any fh :re in theH legiflature; that it hath all the rrehfqna poffible is it, to fry that the p rliamcathath a co-ordinate power in legiflvi >n ;that cur conftituiiqn abhors co ordinatelegiflative powers; that our eonftitudon isone fovereign whofe fnpremacy is itidivi-fible, and both the iegiflative and executiveare in it, notwitl ftaot. ing that all our lawsare fa id to be enacted not only by the prince,but by the au hority of the lords and com¬mons, in the fame fenterce ; and confequent-ly that the executive power, being the cniylegiflitive, can 'difpenfe, annul, deftroylaw s as it pleafeth ;that the people withoutdefltr.ftion are the loos of Belial, a com¬pany of vrfl h, thit live and fubfift by theconceflion ot their mafter only and the like:pofitton.s which 1 would not mention, butmat they are expofed to light and propa¬gated with heat, every day : though ( hope■524not with fuch force as to difengage our affectioasfromahappinefs,without which,Iknownot whether it had not been as well for us tohave been born to a wildernefs and a den.As laws therefore have turned the defartof this world into a paradife, and the wild-nefs of mankind into human fociety: folet us of this kingdom acknowledge ourpart in this happinefs to be much above thatof others; and let our zeal for it rife inproportion to the value of the thing itfelf.Let our government by laws be the chiefobjcft of our Worldly concern: and as wevalue that, let our value and eftimaiionrife for the fupreme head, and everybranch of the executive power, underwhich we live fo happy and eafy at home,whilft they all join in making the laws themeafure of their whole adminiftration.But above all, let our thankfulnefs at thistime r ife to the great Difpofer of all events,who hath given us a farther profpeft ofthe continuance of the fame happinefs tofuture generations, by a great and import¬ant victory abroad, in which Juftice, Laws,and Liberty, have triumphed ever Injufticeand Arbitrary Power; and which we mayreafonably look upon as agrowing fecurityof ou.' good eftate againft the defigns andattempts of all who fight againft it both athome and abroad: which God grant it maybe, for the fake of Jefus thrift, See.FINIS.J. Neilson, printer.