THEOF THEMONTRSOK:PRINIED BY JAMES WATT,OF SCOTLAND rjEMPRESSTHE CONSORT OF3 NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.HISTORYEMPRESS JOSEPHINE.This distinguished lady was horn on the 24th ofJune, 1763 on the island of Martinique, and whilevery young was taken to France by her father tomarry the viscount Beauharnois. Two childeriptwere the fruits of this union, which during oneJperiod was not altogether felicitous. Certain sus-i*picions took place on Jie part of the husband, thethe tribunals were appealed to, and a separatioif:was demanded. These at length decreed that thefacts adduced were too uncertain to obtain a decreeof so serious a nature, and the husband and wifewere at length prevailed upon to resume their for*mer intercourse.They now re-appeared at court, where they hadalways been well received. Madame de Beauharnois.who was a great favourite with the queen, aboutthis time began to be considered one of thehandsomest women in the royal circle at Versaillesand entered into all the dissipations of that periodBut the assembling of the states-general, and tinevents which already seemed to prognosticate a*approaching revolution, soon banished every idea otgaity and pleasure from the palace of the kingsFrance.This general inquietude was soon followed byprivate alarm. Her own husband who had beerifor some time a field-officer, and always evinced aeager desire for glory, was now about to join tlarmy, in consequence of an unexpected declaration';of war. He accordingly repaired to his regimenliand soon attained the rank of general. But althougattached to, and beloved in turn by Louis XVfhe readily perceived that this monarch was destiPfed at a period not very far distant, to lose thiOi3»ianton of power which he then enjoyed, togetherith his life at one and the same moment. WhenII this occurred, as had been foreseen, M. deeauharnois himself was denounced as an aristocraty his own soldiers, deprived of his commission byj jperior authority, and conducted to Paris, wheret e was placed in a state of arrest. Josephine, the< nsibility of whose heart is well known, immedi-ely interposed, and adopted every possible mode,jth through the medium of friends as well as byr own personal solicitation, to obtain his liberty,er husband, on his part, was deeply moved bye affectionate attachment and unceasing assiduityIf his wife, who was not only soon after denied theensure of consoling her unhappy husband, buttually deprived of her own liberty, having beenized and confined at the convent of the Carmelites.the course of a few weeks, the unfortunateicomte was carried before the revolutionary tri-ilinal, which instantly condemned him to death.I Dr. Memes has bublished so interesting an a-jirount of the empress Josephine, that we gladlyI ail ourselves of his valuable ‘‘ Memoirs,” whichrow much new light on the domestic life of this1 ;complished female. Josephine, we need not re-ind our readers, was a Creole. The nativeiegance of mind and manner so often possessedy these transatlantic Europeans, their aptness inle acquisition of all external accomplishments,leir warm temperament modified and restrainedy natural self-possession, are generally known :—As regards accomplishments she played, especially\ the harp, and sung, with exquisite feeling. Shetercised her pencil, and her needle and embroider-ig frame, with beautifull address. ’ A love oflowers,’ that truly feminine aspiration, andwording to a master in elegance and virtue,4infallible index of purity of heart, was with her auuninstructed admiration. She had early cultivated 1a knowledge of botany, a study of all others especial¬ly adapted to the female mind, which exercises ‘without fatiguing the understanding, and leads thethoughts to hold converse with heaven through thesweetest objects of earth. She read delightfully;and nature had been here peculiarly, propitious, forso harmonious were the tones of her voice, evenin the most ordinary conversation, that instancesare common of those who, coming unexpectedly , ;tand unseen, within their influence, have remained '»as if suddenly fascinated and spell-hound, till the* <sounds ceased or fears of discovery forced the? slistener away. Like the harp of David, on the 1troubled breast of Israel’s King, this charm is.known to have wrought powerfully upon Napoleon..His own admissiou was, ‘ The first applause of theFrench people sonnded iu my ear sweet as thevoice of Josephine.-’”A circumstance, trifling in itself, but for afterevents deserves to be recorded here—the propheticintimation to Josephine, when little advanced be¬yond shildhood, of her future high dest nies. Witneed not express our utter rejection of the supposit¬ion that the prophetess believed her own predictionWe see, in the course of Josephine’s story, tfiaijher remembrance of it aided to direct the course olevents to its fulfilment. Stdl its coneidence, willa course of events which could be so directed, reijmains a startling and unacoounmbb fact.‘‘ One day, some time before my first marriagJLwhile taking my usu-1 walk. 1 observed a nun||her of negro girl ssembled round an old woniaK*engaged in telling their fortunes, I drew near |observe their proceedings. The old sybil, on beholl ijng me, uttered a loud exclamation, and almostth■rre seiza'l my hand. She appeared t;> be under thogreatest ay-itation. Amused at these absurdities, asthought them, I allowed her to proceed, saying,So you discover something extraordinary in mystiny?’—‘Yes,’—‘ Is happiness or misfortune tomy lot ?'—‘ Misfortune. Ah, stop !— and hap-I'ness too.’—‘ You take care not to commit yonr-If, my good dame ; your oracles ate not the most.iteldetble.’—‘I am not permitted to render themi ore clear,’ said the woman raising her eyes with a!Mysterious expression towards heaven. ‘ But to. te point,’replied I, for my cutiosity began to he\ xcited ; ‘ Y> hat read you concerning me in thejitrtre?’ Yon will net believe me if I speak.’ ‘Yesbleed, I assure you. Cone, my good mother,that am I fear and hope?’ ‘On your own headit then; listen; \ ou will be married scon; thatnion will not he happy ; you will become a widow,id then—then yeti will he queen of France 1 Somejappy years will be yours ; but you w ill die in anlospital amid civil commotion.’I We have already stated that Josephine Was ar-| Sted : and the merited hut dreadful end of Robes-|Jierre alone saved Madame de Reauharnois, without seventy others destined for the usual morningicrifice to the -deities ot Reason and Revolution.”[ad we not heard her own confession, it might beeerned altogether incredible, that under suchrenm-tarices, Josephine’s thoughts should involun-rily revert to, and dwell upon, the singular pre-ictien whi( h has been reported in the commence-■ a ient of these memoirs. ‘‘ In s|>ite of myself,’’ saidie empres-s tong after, to her ladies, “ I incessant-revolved in my mind this prophecy. Accustom-1 thus to exercise my imagination, every thing|'at had been told me, for some time, began topear less absurd, and finally terminated inGiny almdst certain belief. One niorning the jailereuterd the cKamber, which served as a bed room fortire duchess d'Aiguiilon, myself and two other ladie^telling me lhat he came to take away my flock bed^in order to give it to another captive. ‘ How pivriit?’eagerly interrupted Madame d'Aiguillon; ‘istlien Madame de Beauharnois to have a better?'‘ No no, she will not need one,’ repbed the wretch*with an atrocious laugh ; ‘ she is to be taken tonew lodging, and from thence to the guillotine."At these words, my companions in misfortune setup a loud lamentation. I consoled them in the bestmanner I could. At length wearied with their con-Itinual bewailings, I told them that there was noteven common sense in their grief; that not onlyshould 1 not die, but that 1 should become queen ofFratice. ‘ Why then, do you not appoint youhousehold ?’ asked Madame d’Aigtiillon, with somthing like resentment. ‘Ah! that is true—I haforgotten. Well my dear, you shall be maidhonour; I promise you the situation.’ Upon tbithe tears of the ladies flowed more abundantly ; foithey thought on seeing my coolness at such a crisethat misfortune had affected my reason.The death of Robespierre, and the reprieveleast of his victims, was announced to the prison^next morning. Josephine thus states the ciicunstances :—“ Madame d'Aiguillon, feeling herself ifrom the thoughts of my approaching execution, s|abruptly communicated, I drew her towards tbwindow, which I opened in order to admit air.then perceived a woman of the lower class, who w«making many gestures to us, which we could nunderstand. Every moment she caught and lieliup her gown, without our finding it possible to con®prebend her meaning. Observing her to persever®I cried out ‘Robe’ (a goon), on observing whicllshe made a sign of affirmation. Then, takj > a stone, slie put it in her apron, and again heJdir gown to us, raising the stone in the other hand ;-ierRe’ (stone), 1 called out to her in return,fer joy was extreme on perceiving, to a certainty,I lat we at length undei stood her, Putting the stoneto her gown, she, several times, and with grentigeniess, made the sigh of cutting a throat, and11 a-danciug and shouting. At the very moment,e heard a great noise in the corridor, and thermidable voice of the turnkey, who was speakingi his dog. and, in the act of kicking him away,ied out, 4 Go, you brute of a liobespierre!’ Thislei gctie phraseology proved we had nothing to fear,, id that France was saved. In fact, a few minutesiter, we beheld our companions in misfortune burstliito our apartment, to give us the details of thatrand event! It was the yth Thermidoi ! My flocklied was restored to me, and, upon this couch, Ii assed the most delightful night of my life. I felli deep, after saying to my companions,—You seeh am not guillotined—and 1 shall yet be queen ofllrance,’’\ We how comp to the period of the marriage ofi osephine with Napoleon, who was then hut anmg Soldier of fortune. The following letterJill best shew the state of her affections towardsapoleon.; £‘ My dear friends,—I am urged to marry again; iy friends counsel the measure, my aunt almosther injunctions upon me to the samo effect, and, ly children entreat my compliance. You have seeni leneral Bonaparte in my house. Well!—he itJ who would supply a father’s place to the orphansf Alexander de Beauharnois, and a husband's tois widow.“Do yon love him !’ you will ask. Not exactly-Y oulien dislike him ? Not q»ite so had, 1 And myself inthat state <>f wMerpn<'<' wiurh is any thine bat«agremble, aiul tvnich, to devotees in religion, give* jmore trouble than all their other pecadilloes.“ I admire the general’s courage, the extent of []his information—for, on ad subjects he talks equallyt, whinwell—and the quickness of his judgment,enables him to seize the thoughts of others almost!before they are expressed ; hot, J confess it, | ^shrink from the despotism he seemed desirous ofexercising over all who approachhim. His searcli ,ing glance has something singular and inexplicahlitwhich imposes even on our directors: judge if it may,not intimidate a woman ! Even—what ought tiplease me—the force of a passion, described with any, is pre¬energy that leaves nota doubt of his sincerity,cisely the cause which arrests the consent I am oftenon the point of pronouncing’’ Being npw past the heyday of youth, cun I hopelong to preserve that ardour of attachment which inthe general resembles a fit of delirium ? If, afteroilr union, he should cease to love me, will he notlreproach me with what he will have sacrificed formy sake? will be not regret a more brilliant marriagewhich he might have contracted? What shallthen reply?—what shall I do? I shall weep,Excellent resource! you will gay. Good heavensI know that all this can serve no end ; but it Ims^iever been thus ; tears are the only resource leftme when this poor heart, so easily chilled, hassuffered. Write quickly, and do not fear to scoldme should you judge that I am wrong. You knowthat whatever comes from your pen will be takenin good part.“ Barras gives assurance that if I marrythe general, he will so contrive as to have himappointed to the command of the army of ItalyYesterday,Bonapart, speaking of this favour, whicHalready excites murmuring among his fellow91Boldiers, though it be as yet only a promise, said toitne, ‘ Think they, then, I have need of their pro*Section to arrive at power? Egregious mistake!iiThey will all be but too happy one day should Ixmdeseend to grant them mine. My ssvord is byfiiy side, and with it I will go far.’“ What say you to this security of success? [»t not a proof of confidence springing from an.excess of Vanity? A general of brigade protecttithe heads of •. overmnent! that, truly, is an event!:iighly probable ! 1 know not how it is, but some-i iines this waywardness gains upon me to such a[ legree, that almost I believe possible whateveri his singular man may take it in his head to attempt ;:j md with bis imagination, who can calculate whatIie will not undertake?“ Here wh all regret you, and console ourselve®i or your prolonged absence only by thinking of youf wery minute, and by endeavouring to follow, youjf tep by step through the beautiful country you aret,i)ow traversing. Were 1 sure of meeting you in•I taly, i would, get married to-morrow upon con-htt i of following the general; but we might, per-] taps, cross each other on the rout; thus 1 deem ithore prudent to wait for your reply before taking1 ny determination, Speed, then, your answer—andtour return si ill more.”This is quite in keeping with Josephine’s charac*er, as it has already been developed.Amer her marriage with Napoleon, she remained•ome time in France, but afterwards joined hermsband at Milan, where she spent some of theuipoiest days of her life. Previous to Ffoisapartesceuding the t rone of France, she wrott* him thefollowing letter ;—“ My Erie id,-—For the tenth time, perhaps, haveperused your letter, I confess the amazement hito'10which it threw me subsides only to give place tosorrow and apprehension. You presist, then, inthe resolution to re-establish the throne of France,and yet not to restore those who were deposed bythe revolution, hut to seat vourself thereon ? Whatlthe revolution, but to seat yourself thereon ? Whatpower, you ask—what grandeur—and above all,!what advantage—in this design ? And, for my partI venture to reply, what obstacles present themselves to its success—how great the sacrifices whicfmust be made before its accomplishment can bisecured—how far beyond calculation the consequences, should it be realized. How numerous tinenvious and discontented—how many plots to disjconcert and conspiracies to punish ! Kings will dspise you as an upstart, the people will hate you aian usurper, your equals as a tyrant; none will corprehend the utility of your elevation, all will assqit to ambition or to pride. Doubtless, there will notbe wanting slaves who will cringe to your powei'Jiuntil backed by another, which they esteem a more!formidable influence, they will seek to elevate them¬selves on your ruin. Fortunate also beyond hope,if steel—if poison !—a wife, a friend, dare not gW*pause to alarmed imagination on images so dreadful.This brings me to myself, a subject about which my|concern would be small indeed if I only were inter¬ested. But with the throne, will there not like¬wise arise the desire of new alliances ? Will younot consider it necessary, by new family ties, toiprovide for the more effectual security of that throne'Oh ? whatever such connexions might be, conicthey prove, like those formed at first in proprietyand which affections the most tender have sine*consecrated I I stop at this perspective, which fear-t-must I say love—traces in an appalling futurityY ou have alarmed me by your ambitious flighj)restore my confidence by your return to model'ation.”11R Like all C-assandras.^slie was unheeded. Bena-tarte had a* little of the self-tormenting meta-[Ihysics and cold relentings of Macbeth, as Jos-![)hine of the masculine spirit of his spouse. Theijay c;ame which was to realize the dream which hadJaunted tier from her youth. Dr. Memes's pictureIf her coronation is one of his most fortunateIflforts :—‘‘At eleven precisely, the cavalcade moved from|he Tuillerios, towards Notre Dame. The imperialarriage, drawn by eight baye, attracted generalttention : it had been constructed for the occasion,n a very ingenious manner, the entire panellingi >eing of glass, a circumstance which accounts fors he mistake of their majesty’s having seated them-,! elves like criminals, with their backs to the horses;Ant where so many omens and predictions have)| igured, it is surprising that the facts has betsi omit-j ed. The procession advanced, attended by tencihousand horsemen, the flower of 1 Gallic chivalry,’<lvho defiled between two double lines of infantry,j chile more than four hundred thousand spectatorsI'ilfed up every space where a glance could be ob-i ained. Tfid thunders of innumerable artillery, the1 cclamations of the assemled multitude, express-d the general enthusiasm ; and as if to light up the1 gorgeous spectacle, the sun suddenly broke throughi! he mists which till then had hung heavily over theI he < ty. The cortege stopped at the archiepiscop-! l palace, whence a temporarily covered gallery,I mng with the banners of the sixteen cohorts of thei legion of honour,’ conducted into the interior ofj he cathedral and to the throne. To this latter wasJin ascent of twenty*two semicircular steps coveredHvitti blue cloth, gemmed with golden bee*, androwded with the grand officers of the empire.)n the throne, itself hung: wit‘i the flne&t crimsonDei vet, under a canopy of the same, appeared Napo-1-2kon, with Josephine on hi* left, attended by tb«princesses of the empire, and on his right his twubrothers, with the arch-chancellor and arch-treasurler. The religions ceremony continued nearly fouilhours. The martial band was very numerous!■which executed, in the intervals marches after!wards adopted and still used in the armies of France!One of those composed by Le Seur, for the arm |destined to invade our own shores, when now perl},formed for the first time, is said to have rousedvisible emotion even in the august assembly. Alatjhow cold are the hearts that then beat high withope ! how few, how very few survive of those upon whom the impulse wrought most stirringly! amifrom the banks of the Tagus to the streams ot thVolga, how varied the clime that settles on theiijgraves ! Napoleon at that part of the ceremonystood up, laid his hand upon the imperial crown,—a single diadem of gold wrought into a chaplet ointerwoven oak and laurel,—and placed it on hit ,head. He had even given express commands thatPius should not touch it. Popes had pretendedthat all crowns were bestowed by them ; and per¬haps the new emperor dreaded the belief that he<had brought his holiness from Rome with reference. [to these ancient pretentions. He wished therefore ,,to demonstrate that the right to reign originated lit!his own power, and that at his coronation the popewas but the bishop of Rome. Afterwards, Nope)* >leon took the crown destined for the empress, andfirst putting it for an instant on his own, placed itupon his consort’s brow, as she knelt before him or;the platform of the throne. The appearance o! iJosephine at this moment was most tonchinajpEven then she had not forgotten that she was etacttian obscure woman ; tears of deep emotion fell frondhereyes; she remained kneeling, with both hund.'j>13icrossed upon her bosom, then slowly and gracefullyrising, fixed upon her husband a look of gratitudeand tenderness. Napoleon returned the glace. Itwas a silent but conscious interchange of the hopes,the promises, the memories and the pleasures ofyears I”The ridicule which has attached to the mannersof Napoleon’s court has been greatly exaggerated,and from evident design, in writings published byrenegade courtiers since the restoration. We haveJosephine’s own authority, whose judgment andtaste is indisputable, that the emperor himself, fromthe first, observed with ease the habitudes of histank. “ Most certainly,” such are her own wordswhen conversing in the little circle of her own ex¬iled court, “ most truly do I regard the emperor asa naan that has no equal. In camps, at the councilboard, they find him extraordinary, but in the in¬terior of his palace he ever appeared to me stillmore remarkable. I confess that, notwithstandingmy experience in the world and its usages, thecommencement of the imperial form embarassedme. The emperor on the contrary, made a sport,a pleasure of them ; and in all the palace, he alonebeyond contradiction, best understood their observ¬ances. It is undoubted, that their principal in¬fluence springs from the personal qualities of thoseinvested with the supreme rule; but it is maintainedthat without equalling or supersedingthe'C qualities,ceremonial institutions may supply their place withadvantage. In supporting such a system, . Napo-shews himself at least very disinterested ; for whocan stand less in need of appliances to impose uponmen than one who seems born to govern ? Inproof of this argument, he adduces the example ofof a crowd of princes who have reigned, so to speak,rather seated or lying than standing upright ontheir own feet, but whose couch, guarded by14the barriers of etiquette, has been respected like asanctuary.”Josephine, on all occasions, evinced a strong de-Isire to be permitted to accompany her husband on Ihis military expeditions. On one occasion however!after promising to take the empress, something hav-Iing occured to alter his intention, and require speed,Phe resolved on departing privately without his com¬panion,. Fixing accordingly one in the morning,the hour when she was most likely to be asleep, hewas just about to step into the carriage, when Josephine in a most piteous plight, threw herself intohis arms. By some means she had obtained information of what was going forward, and called herlwomen; but impatient of any delay, had got upwithout waiting for them, and throwing about hellthe first drapery she could lay hands upon, hailrushed down stairs. A tpoment later, and Napoleonf;would have been off like lightning ; but he couldrarely withstand the tears of his wife, so placingher along the bottom of the carriage, he covered heifwith his travelling pelisse, giving orders himselfabout the clothes and proper attedants of theempresss.But we must now revert to the domestic privacyof the empress. “ From about midday till about Ihalf-past two or three o’clock was past by the em¬press in her apartments, working, conversing andreading with her ladies. While the rest were atwork, one of the ladies, pemanently appointedthe office of reader, read aloud at such times asconversation was not preferred. When any literljary production gave more than usual pleasure, itwas immediately begun from the commencement,and perused a second time. The volumes selectedwere for the most part, of a highly interesting antf 1useful character, from the standard writers, and; all new publications of repute. W orks of taste andnjiinagination constitute, of course, a lar-ge portion ofmthese public readings; novels, however, unless in par-:iticular instances, were not about his palaces. Whilei the empress and her ladies were engaged as de-i; scribed, the emperor was in the habit of looking inI upon the fair party at dntervals throughout the' morning. On these occasions, he is described asobeing extremely amiable, amusing, and in highSspirits ; for he rarely visited the saloon in the morn¬ing unless when in good humour, or, in his ownphrase, ‘ when things went well,’ Josephine, too,!' though more rarely, would venture into his cabinet;!, but when he required her presence for any con¬ference of importance, Napoleon knocked at the doorof private communication, and these interviews,[generally taking place in the evening, were ofteni continued so long, that on returning she found alliliher ladies asleep.”A favourite amusement of Josephine and Napoleon(l was a game galled “ prisoners”—the same as whatHour schoolboys call French and English,” orlll“ Deals.’’ There is something very stricking in theij account of the last opportunity they had of indulg-j ing in this relaxation ;—“ The interval betweeu thei loth of August and the 27th of September whenj the ieterview at Erfurth took place, was passedijchietly at St. Cloud, and might nearly be calledi the last of Josephine’s happiness in Napoleon’s|jsociety. Only a few days before his departure,Josephine and Napoleon, with their usual familiars,played a final game at the favourite amusement of‘ prisoners.’ It was dark night before the partyfinished, and footmen with torches were in at-tendance, to give light to the players. The effectcould not have been without the greatest interest,Ithe blaze of the torches were now throwing(mold, broad, beautiful, and rich illumination upon1Cthe illustrious group as they assembled in frontr 1 "' i 1|Vfbjjitaken captive, he wslrbroke, as soon as he rijl®to running, and released!*the chateau, previous to each run. Napoleon, m jas he was runningaJl11Th#>r|usual, fell, tho’ only once,Josephine. Being thusplaced in ban, which hecovered breath, set againthe empress amid loud hnzzas from his own, anshouts of ‘ fair play’ from the opposite party,ended the last repetition of you hfal sport.’’From what we have seen of the domestic life ofNapoleon and Josephine, no doubt can be enterjtained of his attachment to that lady. But his mind ,was coii'tantly haunted by dreams of ambition iHe panted for an heir, and wished that the mother!should be eminently illustrious in point of birth so;that mankind might be inspired with respect botljfor himself and his progeny. Accordingly, in a*evd hour, he pitched on a daughter of the emperofof Austria, and resolved on divorcing a consortwhose marriage had been “ secretly blessed by th*pope,'’ who had been crowned by his holiness, wliiihad been the wife of Napoleon during fourteefiwhole years, and who could not be separated fro®him without a breach of his own express law, prof fhibiting every thing of this kind in the imperial!family.No sooner was this design resolved upon, thanthe necessity for communicating the painful fact M tJosephine became apparent. Tbe 30th of Noverb->her, 1800, arrived, which Napoleon appears 0have destined for declaring his final determination,to Josephine. .She had wrpt all day; they wer#to dine together as usual, ai d, to conceal her tears •tbe empiess wore a large white hat, fasteneCunder the chin, which, with its deep front shadet ithe -whole of tbe upper pait of (he face. Napoleon, also, lad sl.ovn nicks of the strouges[.agitation ; he scircnly spokn to any ono, Imf, withn arms foldml, csntinned at intervals to pace hisii library alone; at tabitg when he raised his eye, it• 'was only to look by stealth upon the empress withnan expression of the deepest regret. The dinnerr was removed untouched — neither tasted a morsel;and the only use to which Napoleon turned hisi(knife was to strike mechanically upon the edge ofilhis glass, which he appeared to do unconsciously,and like one whose thoughts-were painfully pre-> occupied. Every thing during this sad repast seem->i ed to presage the impending catastrophe. TheI'fficers ot tlie court, even, who were in attendance,itood in motionless expectancy, like men who lookipon a sight, they feel portends evil, though wiiatthey know not; not a sound was heard beyond thenoise of placing and rem< ving the untasted viands,lucid the monotonous tinkling already noticed; for;| ihe emperor spoke only once to ask a question,'ikithout giving any attention to the reply. “ We|pined together as usual,” says Josephine; Iitruggled with my tears, which, notwithstanding‘very effort, overflowed from my eyes; 1 utteredmt a single word during that sorrowful meal, andtie broke silence but once, to ask an attendant a-i; iout the weather. My sunshine, I saw, had pa-sed| tway; the storm burst quickly. Directly afterEotlee, Bonaparte dismissed every one, and I re-iHnained alone with him. She rose as usual fromlie table with Napoleon, whom she slowly followednto the saloon, and with a handkerchief pressedipon her mouth, torestrain thesobbing which, thoughnaudible, shook her whole frame. Recovering, byWn eliort, her self-command, Josephine prepared torour out the coffee, when Napoleon advancing tohe page, performed the office for himself, castingipon her a regard remarked even by the attendants,nd which seemed to fall with stunning import for sheemaincd as if stnpitied. The emperor having drunk18returned the cup to the page, and by a sign indicat¬ed his wish to be alone, shutting with his own handthe door of the saloon.We If now,- from Josephine’s own words, whatpassed during this secret interview. “ 1 watchediti the changing expression of his countenance, thatstruggle which was in his soul. At length, hisfeatures settled into stern resolve. I saw that niyhour was come. His whole frame trembled ; heapproached, and I felt a shuddering horror comeover me. He took my hand, placed it upon hisheart, gazed upon me for a moment, then pronouncedthese fearful words.—“Josephine! my excellentJosephine! thou knowest if I have loved thee I Tothee—to thee alone do I owe the only moments of 1happiness which I have enjoyed in this world, Jo- ®sephine! my destiny overmasters my will. Mydearest affections must be silent before the interestsof France !—< Say no more,’ 1 had still strengthsufficient to reply; ‘1 was prepared for this, but 4the blow is not less mortal.’ More I could not "utter; 1 cannot tell what pa-sed within me. 1 be¬lieved my screams were loud. 1 thought reason t«had fled. I became unconscious of every thing; ]and, on returning to my senses, found J had been icarried to m\ chamber.When Josephine tints fainted, Napoleon hastily *opened the door of the saloon, and called to the two nindividuals who remained in the dining-room. Theopening of the door allowed them to see the empress ■on the door, insensible, yet st ill speaking in broken imurmurs—“Oh, no! you cannot surely do it!—-;<■you would not kill me!’’ M. de Beaumont entered, i(,ami lilted in his arms the hapless Josephine. The i„emperor bimseif, taking a taper from the ohim- *neypieee, lighted a way through a dark passage, »whence there was a private staircase to the ein-press’s sleeping-room,19Napoleon then called the keeper of the portfolio,whose duty it was to be in constant attendance atthe door of the Cabinet, which also opened uponthe corridor. Giving the taper to his attendant,and directing him to precede, the emperor himselfsupporting Josephine’s limbs, and descending last,|the party thus attained the door of her bedroom.jHere Napoleon dismissed both his companions, andlaying the empress on her bed rang for her women,ho, on entering, found him hanging over her withn expression of the deepest anxiety.On the 16th of the following December, Napoeon assembled all the members of the senate, in-dudingthe kings of Westphalia and‘Naples, therand admiral, the prince viceroy of Italy, thearch-chancellor of state, the prince vice-constable,etc.{After the usual ceremonies, a project of a “Senatusi C’onsultum ” was read, respecting a dissolution ofithe marriage between the emperior Napoleon andithe empress Josephine.This deed of separation required by the two high(contracting parties themselves, and approved of bya family council at which ail the princes and princ¬esses ot the imperial family now at Paris had assis¬ted, received, on the same day, the assent of thej senate, after having been duly examined by a special'Commission. Jean Jaques Regis (Jambaceres, princercb-chancellor of tho empire, tbeu stated, that onhe preceding day, he had visited the palace of theTuiileries, attended by Michael Louis Etienne deSt. Jean d’Angeley, count of the empire, minister)f state and secretary of state for the imperial family.On being introduced to the grand catiinet of theemperor, he there found his majesty the emperorlid king, with her mujeaty the empress, attendedy their majesties the kings of Holland, West¬phalia, and Naples.20His imperial majesty the n addressed him in a speechin which he stated ns follows :—*• The politics ofmy monarchy, tlte interests and the wants of mypeople which have constantly guided ail my actions,require that after me F should leave children, in¬heritors of my love for my people, and of thatthrone on which providence has placed me. Not¬withstanding this, for several years pa-sed I havelost the hope of having children by my marriagewith my well beloved consort, the empress Jose¬phine. This circumstance alone induces me tosacrifice the sweetest affections of my heart, inorder to attend to nothing hut the good of the state ;and with this view I wish the dissolution of mymarriage. A n i\ ed at the age of forty years, I mayindulge the hope of living long enough to educate,in my own views and sentiments, the childrenwhich it, m,:y please Providence to give me. Godonly knows how much such a resolution has costmy heart; but there isnosaciificebeyondmycourageif proved to be necessary to the welfare of France.”The empress-queen then spoke as follows :—'* Bythe permission of our dear and august consort Iought to declare, that not preserving any hope ofhaving children, w hich may f ulfil the objects of hispolicy and the interests of France, I am pleased toafford him the greatest proof of attachment and de¬votion which lias ever been given on earth. I thitikI prove myself grateful in consenting to the dis¬solution of a marriage which heretofore was an ob¬stacle to the welfare of France, by depriving it ofthe happiness of be:ng one day governed by thedecendants of a great man, evidently raised up byProvidence to efface the evils of a terrible revolu¬tion. I know not how much this act, demanded bypolicy and by interests of the highest and mostsacred nature, has affected my heart; but both ofus exult in the sacrifice which we make for the21<4^00(1 of tlie counti'y.'’ The instrument for dissolv-ijljng the marriage was then signed by the followingi jpersonages :—Napoleon, Josephine, Madame, (theimother of Bonaparte) Louis, Jerome Napoleon,; Joachim Napoleon, Eugene Napoleon, Julie, Hor- •ijtense, Catherine, Pauline, Caroline.I Josephine now withdrew from the palace of thetTuilleries, and retired once more to Malmaison,i nhere she was visited daily by Bonaparte until theperiod of his nuptials.Henceforward, Josephine’s life was passed alter¬nately at Malmaison and Navarre, and glided awayin an equal tenor of benevolent exertion and elegantJemployment, offering but few incidents. A descrip¬tion of one is the account of all. The villa of Mal¬maison, to which she first retired, from its vicinityto Paris, might be regarded as her residence ofceremony. Here she received the visits, almostI the homage of the members of the court of Napo-leon and Maria Lousia; for it was quickly discov-tered that however unpleasant they might be to herinevv rival, such visits were recommendations to theemperor s favour. A little after nine, these re¬ceptions took place ; and from the visitors of themorning were retained, or previously invited, someten or twelve guests to breakfast at eleven. Afterbreakfast the empress adjourned to the saloon,where she conversed for about an hour, or walkedin the delighful gallery adjoining, which containedmany of the masterpieces of painting and sculpture.Of these, a few were ancient, but the greaternumber were the works of living artists, the mostdistinguished of whom were not without obligationsto the patronage of Josephine.The arrival of the carriages at the palace wasthe signal for the departure of the crowd of morn-ing visitors ; and after a drive of a couple of hour5in the park, the empress and her suite retired todress for dinner, to -which never less than fromtwelve to fifteen strangers sat-down. The evening• passed in amusement, conversation, and music, andwas always very gay, owing to the number ofvisitors from Paris. At eleven, tea, ices, and sweet¬meats were served; and at midnight, the empressretired. The apartments in which these re-unionstook place were elegant and spacious, the furniturebeing covered with needlework on a ground ofwhite silk, wrought by the empress and her ladies tbut the residence altogether was small, an inconve¬nience still further increased through Josephine’sveneration of every thing that had been Napoleon's.The apartment which he had occupied remainedexactly as he had left it; she w-ould not suffer evena chair to be moved, and indeed very rarely per¬mitted any one to enter, keeping the key herself,and dusting the articles with her own hands. Onthe table wras a volume of history, with the pagedoubled down w here he had finished reading ; be¬side it lay a pen with the ink dried on the point,and a map of the world, on which he was accus¬tomed to point out his plans to those in his confi¬dence, and which still shewed on his surface many jmarks of his impatience;—these, Josephine wouldnot allow to be touched on any account. Bythe wall stood Napoleon’s camp-bed, withoutcurtains.The close of Josephine’s life is thus described byDr. Memes;—“ A variety of grievances preyedupon Josephine’s spirits, but without producingany appearance of disease till the 4th of May, whenshe dined at St. Leu with Hortense, Eugene, and theemperor of Russia. On returning to Malmaison, shefelt a general uneasiness, which, yielded to some<UilId:t!. avIf.(lW,lpfiAK»t»cLtil:»*Ik-i23gentle medicine, and the empress resumed her or-li dinary occupations, though evidently without theusual enjoyment. Some days after, Lord Beverley,with his two sons, breakfasted at Malmaison; andto this nobleman Josephine expressed herself warm¬ly on the generosity of the English, who at thatitime, she said, alone spoke of Napoleon in a becom-j ing manner. She complained bitterly of the in¬gratitude of those who, not satisfied with abandon¬ing his falling fortunes, overwhelmed his memoryI with calumny. On the 10th, Alexander, with otherdistinguished foreigners, dined at Malmaison. Jos-jephine, despite a headache and cold shiverings,Ijwbich she laboured to conceal, did the honours ofithe table, and in the evening attempted even to take|j,a part in a game of ‘ prisoners! ’ on the beautifuljpawn in front of his residence,however, she continued totors,To anxious enquir-reply, with a faintsmile, which belied the assurance, ‘that she rvasonly fatigued and would be well to morrow.’ To¬morrow came, but Josephine wag evidently worse;Ion the 24th the empress had a slight attack of sorethroat, but otherwise rallied so much as to insist onreceiving the emperor of Russia and the king ofPrussia. Thenceforward, the disease assumed amost alarming character, exhibiting symptoms of agangrenous quinsy, and its progress became fear¬fully rapid. On the morning of the 25th, Alex¬ander returned, and filled with anxiety at thealteration in Josephine’s appearance, requestedpermission to send his own physician. This theempress declined; but she was attended by herown, and the two physicians attached to the house,holds of her son and daughter. On the night of the26-27th, a blister was’applied between the shoulders,and synapisms to the feet; but though these gavesome relief from pain, they affected no impressionon the disease.24Still Josephine, with the same angelic sweetness ,which had marked her whole life, endeavoured, hy jconcealing her suffering, to soothe the anxiety of hersurrounding friends. The morning of the 2Gth, sheappears to have been perfectly sensible of her dang¬er ; for, looking then steadily upon the physician,and perceiving his alarm, she silently pressed hishand in token of consciousness and acquiescence.The preceding night was passed in a lethargicsleep; and at ten in the morning of the 26th, thephysicians, after consulting, deemed it proper toprepare Eugene and Hortense for the final.change.From those two cherished beings, whoin^she hadloved so truly, Josephine heard a comffelnicationwhich thus lost all its bitterness. With pious re¬signation she received the last rites of the Romishfaith from the ministration of her grandchildren’spreceptor, for the parish clergyman of Reul happen¬ed to be absent. Late on the evening of the sameday the emperor .Alexander arrived, and was shewninto the chamber of the sufferer, now evidently ap¬proaching the goal of her sorrows. By the bed oftheir mother knelt Eugene and Hortense, too deep¬ly moved to address the emperor ; but at sight ofa monarch whom she regarded with gratitude, Jose¬phine seemed to acquire renewed strength,madea signfor all to approach, and said,—‘ At least I shall dieregretted; 1 have always desired the happiness ofFrance ; 1 dia all in my power to contribute to it; ■and I can say with truth to all of you now presentat my last moments, that the first wife of Napoleonnever caused a single tear to flow.’ These wereher last words, for she fell immediately after intoa slumber, which continued uninterrupted by ascarcely audible sigh, till half past eleven on themorning of the 26th of May, when her gentle spiritcalmly passed to a world of love and peace.”