BLIND ALLANA TALE,FROM“ lights and shadows ofSCOTTISH LIFE.”PRINTED FOR THE EO0KSELLERS.69-1 *f,K 1* OF 5^ ''! :'>I Allan Bruce and Fanny Raeburn were in| no respect remarkable among the simple inhabi-I tants of the village in which they were born.I They both bore a fair reputation in the parish,i: and they were both beloved by their own friends« and relations. He was sober, honest, active, and1 industrious,—exemplary in the duties of privateI life,—possessed of the humble virtues becomingi his humble condition, and unstained by any of thoseI gross vices that sometimes deform the character ofthe poor. She was modest, good tempered, con¬sented, and religious—and much is contained inthese four words. Beauty she was not thought, to possess—nor did she attract attention ; butt whatever charm resides in pure health, innocenceI of heart, and simplicity of manners, that belongedfl to Fanny Raeburn ; while there was nothingi( either about her face or figure to prevent her) seeming even beautiful in the eyes of a lover.4These two humble and happy persons were be¬trothed in marriage. Their affection had insensi¬bly grown without any courtship, for they had liveddaily in each other’s sight; and, undisturbed byjealously or rivalry, by agitating hopes or depres¬sing fears, their hearts had been tenderly unitedlong before their troth was solemnly pledged, andthev now looked forward with a calm and rationalsatisfaction to the happy years, which they hum¬bly hoped might be stored up for them by a boun¬tiful Providence. Their love was without romance,but it was warm, tender and true; they were prepared by its strength to make any sacrifice for eachother’s sakes; and, had death taken away eitherof them before the wedding-day, the survivor mightnot perhaps have been clamorous in grief, or visitedthe grave of the departed with nightly lamenta-tations, but not the less would that grief have beensincere, and not the less faithful would memoryhave been to all the images of the past.Their marriage day was fixed—and Allan Brucehad rented a small cottage, with a garden slopingdown to the stream that cheered his native village.Thither, in about two months, he was to take hissw’eet and affectionate Fanny—she was to workwith her needle as before—and he in the fields.No change was to take place in their lives, but achange of contentment to happiness; and if Godprolonged to them the possession of health, andblessed them with children, they feared not tobring them decently up, and to afford sunshineand shelter to the livin'!' flowers that might cometo gladden their house. Such thoughts visitedthe souls of the lovers,— and they wore becomingdearer and dearer to one another every hour thatbrought them closer to their marriage-day.At this time Allan began to feel a slight dim-8 0 raness in his sight, of which he did not take muchnotice, attributing it to some indisposition broughtI on by the severity of his winter’s work. For heI® had toiled late and early, during all weathers,ij and at every kind of labour, to gain a sum suffi-l cient to furnish respectably his lowly dw-elling,i and also to array his sweet bride in weddingclothes of whicli she should not he ashamed.I The dimness, however, each succeeding day,r darkened and deepened, till even his Fanny's face! was indistinctly discerned by him, and he lost al-t| together the smile which never failed to brighteni: it whenever he appeared. Then he became sadand dispirited, for the fear of blindness fell uponhim, and he thought of his steps being led in his[ helplessness by the hand of a child. He prayedto God to avert this calamity from him—but ifI not, to bestow upon him the virtue of resignation.He thought of the different blind men whom hehad known, and as far as he could know, they allseemed happy. That belief pacified his soul,6when it was about to give way to a passionatedespair; and every morning at sunrise when thefast advancing verdure of spring seemed more dimand glimmeringbeforo his eyes, he felt his soul more 'and more resigned to that final extinction of the jday’s blessed light, which he knew must be hisdoom before the earth was covered with theflowers and fragrance of June.It was as he feared ; and Allan Bruce was ]now stone-blind. Fanny’s voice had always beensweet in his ear, and now it was sweeter still 'when heard in the darkness. Sweet had been ithe kisses which breathed from Fanny’s lips, 1while his eyes delighted in their rosy freshness. IBut sweeter were they now when they touched Ihis eye lids, and he felt upon his checks her fust | 'trinkling tears. She visited him in his father’s Ihouse, and led him with her gently guiding hands I ‘into the adjacent fields, and down along the jstream which he said he liked to hear murmuring ]by ; and then they talked together about them- <selves, and on their knees prayed to God to coun- jsol them what to do in their distress.These meetings were always happy meetingsto them both, notwithstanding the many mourn¬ful thoughts with which they were necessarilyattended; but to Allan Bruce they yielded a7support that did not forsake him in his hours oiunaccompanied darkness. His love, which hadformerly been joyful in the warmth of youth, andin the near prospect of enjoyment, was nowchastened by the sad sense of his unfortunate con¬dition, and rendered thereby a deep and devoutiemotion which had its comfort in its own unwit-t nessed privacy and imperishable truth. The;tones of his Fanny’s voice were with him on hismidnght bed, when his affliction was like to over¬come his fortitude; and to know that he wasistill tenderly beloved by that gentle and innocentilfriend, was a thought that gave light to darknessland suffered sleep to fall balmily on lids thatfshut up eyes already dark as in profoundest slum¬ber. The meek fold of her pitying embrace wastwith him in the vague uncertainty of his dreams;land often he saw faces in his sleep beaming con¬solation upon him, that always assumed at lastFanny’s features, and as they grew more distinct,brightened up into a perfect likeness of his ownfaithful and disinterested maiden. He lay downwith her image, because it was in his eveningprayers ; he rose up with her image, or it camegliding in upon him, as he knelt down at his bed¬side in the warm beams of the unseen morninglight.Allan and Fanny were children of poor par¬ents; and when he became blind, they, and in*8ileed all their friends and relations, set their facesagainst marriage. This they did in kindness tothem both, for prudence is one of the best virtuesof the poor, and to indulge even the holiest af¬fections of Our nature, seems to them to be sinful,if an affliction from God’s hand intimates thatsuch union would lead to sorrow and distress.The same thoughts had taken possession of Al¬lan’s own soul, and loving Fanny Raeburn witha perfect affection, why should he wish her, inthe bright and sunny days of her youthful prime,to become chained to a Blind Man’s Steps, keptin constant poverty and drudgery for his sake,and imprisoned in a lonesome hut, during thefreedom of her age, and the joyfulness of natureringing over the earth ? “ It has pleased God,”said the blind man to himself, “ that our marriageshould not bo. Let Fanny, if she chooses, sometime or other, marry another, and be happy.”And as the thought arose, he felt the bitterness ofthe cup, and wished that he might soon be in hisgrave.For, while his eyes were not thus dark, he sawmany things that gave him pleasure, besides hisFanny, well as he loved her; nor had hisbeen an absorbing passion, although most sincere.He had often been happy at his work, with hiscompanions, in the amusement of his age and con¬dition, with the members of his own family,without thinking even of his dear Fanny Rao-:burn. She was not often, to be sure, entirelyout of his thoughts, for the consciousness of lovingiher, and of being beloved, accompanied his steps,!although he scarcely knew it, just as one whodives on a lake side, or by the murmur of ailstream, may feel the brightness and the shadowsjof the one, and hear the constant music of theJother, mingling as a remembrance or a dreamwith the impressions, thoughts, passions, and feel-iings of his ordinary human life. But now, whatjihad been less pleasant or necessary to him allifaded away, and he saw in his darkness, oneimage only—Fanny Raeburn—he heard in hisdarkness one sound only—Fanny Raeburn’svoice. Was she to smile in another man’s.house? Surely, that could not be; for herQsmiles were his, and to transfer them to anotherJ seemed to him to be as impossible, as for aanother to forget her own children, and pour’ with equal fondness her smiles upon the face ofi another who belonged not to her blood. VetJsuch transference, such forgetfulness, such sadchange had been, that he well knew, even in“the short and simple annals of the poor,” whichalone he had read ; and who would blame, whowould pity, who would remember the case of the(deserted, and forsaken poor Blind Man ?Fanny Raeburn had always been a dutifulchild, and she listened to the arguments of her par-JOents ;vith a heavy but composed heart. She waswilling to obey them in all things in which it was 1her duty to obey—but here she knew not what washer duty. To give up Allan Bruce was a thoughtfar worse to her than to give up life. It was tosuffer her heartstrings to be hourly torn up by theroots. If the two were willing to be married, whyshould any one else interfere ? If God had strick¬en Allan with blindness after their marriage,would any one have counselled her to leave him?Or pitied her because she had to live with her ownblind husband? Or would the fear of povertyhave benumbed her feelings? Or rather, wouldit not have given new alacrity to her hands, andnew courage to her heart? Sb she resolved,meekly and calmly, to tell Allan that she wouldbe his wife, and that she believed that such was,in spite of this affliction, the will of God.Allan Bruce did not absent himself, in hisblindness,from the House of God. One Sabbath,after divine service, Fanny went up to him in thechurch-yard, and putting her arm in his, theywalked away together, seemingly as cheerful asthe rest of the congregation, only with somewhatslower and more cautious steps. They proceededalong the quiet meadow fields by the banks of thestream, and then across the smooth green braes,till they gently descended into a holm, and satdown together in a little green bower, which a few] 1liazels, mingling with one tall weeping birch, hadof themselves framed a place where they had oftenmet before Allan was blind, and where they hadfirst spoken of wedded life. • Fanny could havealmost wept to see the earth, and the sky, and the1 whole day, so beautiful, now that Allan’s eyeswere dark, but he whispered to her, that the smellof the budding trees, and of the primroses that heknew were near his feet, was pleasant indeed, and,|| that the singing of all the little birds made hisI heart dance within him—so Fanny sat beside herblind lover in serene happiness, and felt strength¬ened in her conviction that it was her duty to be¬lt come his wife.“Allan—I love you so entirely—that to see’j you happy is all that I desire on earth. Till Godi| made you blind—Allan—1 knew not how my soulit could be knit unto yours—I knew not the loveHi that was in my heart. To sit by you with myii work—to lead you out thus on pleasant Sabbathsj —to take care that your feet do net stumble—i: and that nothing shall ever offer violence to yourl| face—to suffer no solitude to surround you— but.] that you may know, in your darkness, lhat minei eyes, which God still permits to see, are alwaysj upon you—for these ends—Allan — will I marryI thee, my beloved—thou must not say nay—for> God would not forgive me, if 1 became not thy|| wife.” And Fanny fell upon his neck and wept.J2There was something in the quiet tone of hervoice—something in the meek fold of her embrace—something in the long weeping kiss that she keptbreathing tenderly over his brow and eyes—thatjustified to the Blind Man his marriage with sucha woman. “Let us be married, Fanny, on theday fixed before I lost my sight. Till now I knewnot fully either your heart or my own—now I fearnothing. Would—my best iViend—I could butsee thy sweet face for one single moment now—but that can never be!”—“All things are possibleto God—and although to human skill your caseis hopeless—it is not utterly so to my heart—yetif ever it becomes so, Allan, then will I love theebetter even than I do now, if indeed my heart cancontain more affection than that with which it nowoverflows.”Allan Bruce and Fanny Raeburn were married.And although there was felt, by the most carelessheart, to be something sad and solemn in such nup¬tials, yet Allan made his marriage-day one of so¬bercheerfulness in his native village. Fanny woreher white ribbands in the very way that used to bepleasant to Allan’s eyes; and blind as he now was,these eyes kindled with a joyful smile, when heturned the clear sightless orbs towards his bride,and saw her within his soul arrayed in the simplewhite dress which he heard all about him sayingso well became her sweet looks. Her relations13and his own partook of the marriage feast in theircottage—there was the sound of music and dancingfeet on the little green plat at the foot of the gar¬den, hy the river’sside—the bride’s youngestsister,who washenceforth to be an inmate of the house,remained when the party went away in the quietof the evening—and peace, contentment and love,folded their wings together over that humbledwelling.iiiI.From that day, Allan and his wife were perfect¬ly happy—and they could not help wondering attheir former fears. There was, at once a generaldetermination formed all over the parish to dothem every benefit. Fanny, who had always beendistinguished for her skill and fancy as a seamstress,became now quite the fashionable dress-maker ofthe village, and had more employment offered thanshe could accept. So that her industry alone w7asmore than sufficient for all their present wants.But Allan, though blind, was not idle. He im¬mediately began to instruct himself in various de¬partments of a blind man’s work.—A loom waspurchased ; and in a few weeks he was heard sing¬ing to the sound of his fiy-shuttle, as merry as thebullfinch in the cage that hung at the low windowof his room. He was not long in finding out theway of platting rush-rugs and wicker-baskets—the figures of all of which were soon, as it were,visible through his very fingers; and before six14months were over, Allan Bruce and his wife weresaid to begetting rich, and a warm blessing brokefrom every heart upon them, and their virtuousand unrepining industry.Allan had always been fond of music, and hisvoice was the finest tenor in all the kirk. So hebegan in the evenings of winter to teach a schoolfor sacred music—and thus every hour was turnedto account. Allan repined not now—nay at timeshe felt as if his blindness were a blessing—for itforced him to trust to his own soul—to turn forcomfort to the best and purest human affections—and to see God always.Whatever misgivings of mind Allan Brucemight have experienced—whatever faintings andsickenings and deadly swoons of despair might haveovercome his heart,—it was not long before hewas a freed man from all his slavery. He wasnot immured, like many as worthy as he, in anAsylum; he was not an encumbrance upon a poorfather, sitting idle, and in the way of others, be¬side an ill-fed fire, and a scanty board; he wasnot forced to pace step by step along the lamp-lighted streets and squares of a city, forcing outbeautiful music to gain a few pieces of coin frompassers by entranced for a moment by sweetsounds, plaintive or jocund • he was not a boy-If)led beggar aiong the high-way under the sickeningsunshine or the chilling sleet, with an abject thatabjectly protruded with a cold heart for coldercharity;—but he was, although he humbly felt andacknowledged that he was in nothing more worthythan these, a man loaded with many blessings,warmed by a constant ingle, laughed round by aflock ofjoyful children,love-tended and love-light¬ed by a wife, who was to him at once music andradiance; while his house stood in the middle ofa village, of which all the inhabitants were hisfriends, and of all whose hands the knock wasknown when it touched his door, and of all whosevoices the tone was felt when it kindly accostedhim in the wood, in the field, in the garden, by theriver’s side, hospitable board of a neighbour, or inthe Church-yard assemblage before entering intothe House of God.Thus did years pass along. Children were bornto them, lived, were healthy, and well behaved.A blessing rested upon them and all that belongedto them, and the name of “Blind Allan” carriedwith it far and near an authority that could belongonly to virtue, piety, and faith tried by afflictionand found to stand fast.Ten years ago, when they married, Allan Bruceand Fanny Raeburn were among the poorest of16the poor, and had it pleased God to send sicknessamong them, hard had been their lot. But nowthey lived in a better bouse, with a larger garden,and a few fields, with two cows of their own.Allan had workmen under him, a basket-maker,now on a considerable scale, aad his wife bad herapprentices too, the best dress-maker in all thecountry-round. They were rich. Their childrenwere at school, and all things belonging both toouter and inner life, had prospered to their hearts'desire. Allan could walk about many familiar])laces unattended ; but that seldom happened, forwhile his children were at school he was engagedin his business; and when they came home, therewas always a loving contest among them whoshould be allowed to take hold of their father’shand when he went out on his evening walk.Well did he know the tread of each loving crea¬ture’s footstep, their very breath when their voiceswere silent. One touch of a head as it dancedjiast him, or remained motionless by his side; onepressure of an arm upon his knee; one laugh froma corner was enough to tell him which of his chil¬dren was there; and in the most confused noiseand merriment, his ear would have known if oneromping imp had been away. So perfectly accus¬tomed had he long been to his situation, that itmight almost be said that lie was unconscious ofbeing blind, or that he had forgotten that his eyesonce saw. Long had Allan Bruce indeed beenthe happiest of the blind.17It chanced atlhis time, that among a party whowere visiting his straw manufactory, there was asurgeon celebrated for his skill in operations uponi the eye, who expressed an opinion that Allan’ssight might be at least partially restored, and offer-i ed not only to perform the operation, but if Allanwould reside some weeks in Edinburgh, to seej him every day, till it was known whether his casea was or was not a hopeless one. Allan’s circum| stances were now such as to make a few weeks,I or even months confinement of no importance to|: him; and though he said to his wife that he was(averse to submit to an operation that might disturbthe long formed quiet and contentment of his mind1 by hopes never to be realized, yet those hopes of| once more seeing Heaven’s dear light gradually| removed all his repugnance. His eyes were| couched, and when the bandages were removed,U and the soft broken light let in upon him, Allan( Bruce was no longer among the number of the blind.There was no uncontrollable burst of joy in thesoul of Allan Bruce when once more a communi-cation was opened between it and the visible world.For he had learned lessons of humility and tem¬perance in all his emotions during ten years ofblindness, in which the hope of light was too faintol to deserve the name. He was almost afraid to bo'i| lieve his sight was restored. Grateful to him wasd its first uncertain and wavering glimmer, as a18draught of water to a wretch in a crowded dun¬geon. But he knew not whether it was to ripeninto the perfect day, or gradually to fade backagain into the depth of his former darkness.But when his Fanny, she on whom he had soloved to look when she was a maiden in her teens,and who would not forsake him in the first miseryof that great affliction, hut had been overjoyed tolink the sweet freedom of her prime to one sittingin perpetual dark, when she, nowa staid and lovelymatron, stood before him with a face pale in bliss,and all drenched in the floodlike tears of an un-supportable happiness; then truly did he feelwhat a heaven it was to see ! And as he took herto his heart, he gently bent back her head, that hemight devour with his eyes that benign beautywhich had for so many years smiled upon him un¬beheld, and which now that he had seen oncemore, he felt that he could even at that very mo¬ment die in peace.In came with soft steps, one afteranother, hisfive loving children, that for the first time theymight be seen by their father. The girls advan¬ced timidly, with blushing cheeks and brightshining hair, while the boys went boldly up to hisside, and the eldest looking in the face, exclaimedwith a shout of joy, “ Our Father sees !—our19Father sees !”—and then checking his rapture,burst into tears. Many a vision had Allan Bruceframed to himself of the face and figure of one andall of his children. One, he had been told, waslike himself, another the image of its mother, andj Lucy, he understood, was a blended likeness olI them both. But now he looked upon them withj the confused and bewildered joy of parental love,j| seeking to know and distinguish in the light theA separate objects towards whom it yearned; andI not till they spoke did he know their Christian{ Names. But soon, soon, did the sweet faces ofij all his children seem, to his eyes, to answer well,ij each in its different loveliness, to the expressiond of the voices so long familiar to his heart.Pleasant, too, no doubt, was that expansion ofif heart, that followed the sight of so many oldI friends and acquaintances, all of whom, familiar(i as he had long been with them in his darkness,one day’s light now seemed to bring farther for-vj ward in his affection. They came towards himfij now with brighter satisfaction ; and the happinessa of his own soul gave a kinder expression to theirI demeanour, and represented them all as a host of| human beings rejoicing in the joy of one singlebrother. Here was a young man, who, when heis saw him last, was a school-boy; here a man begin-f ning to be bent with toil, with a thoughtful aspect,»! who had been among joyous and laughing fellow-20labourers in field or at fair—here a man on whom,ten years before, he had shut bis eyes in advancedbut vigorous life, now sitting, with a white headand supported on a staff; all this change he knewbefore, but now he saw it; and there was thus asomewhat sad, but an interesting, delightful, andimpressive contrast and resemblance between thepast and the present, brought immediately beforehim by the removal of a veil. Every face aroundhim, every figure, was instructive as well as plea¬sant; and humble as his sphere of life was, andlimited its range, quite enough of chance andchange was now submitted to his meditation, togive his character, which had long been thoughtful,a still more solemn cast, and a temper of still morehomely and humble wisdom.Nor did all the addition to his happiness comefrom human life. Once more he saw the heavensand the earth. By man in his lowly condition,nature is not looked on very often perhaps, withpoetical eyes. But all the objects of nature arein themselves necessarily agreeable and delightful;and the very colours and forms he now saw filledhis soul with bliss. Not for ten dark years had heseen a cloud, and now they were piled up likecastles in the summer heaven. Not for ten darkyears had he seen the vaulted sky, and there it wasnow bending majestically in its dark, deep, sereneazure, full of tenderness, beauty, and power. The21green earth, with all its flowers, was now visiblebeneath his feet. A hundred gardens blossomed—a hundred hedge-rows ran across the meadowand up the sides of the hills; the dark grove ofsycamore, shading the village church on its mount,stood tinged with a glitter of yellow light; andfrom one extremity of the village to the other,calm, fair, and unwavering, the smoke from all itschimneys went up to heaven on the dewy morningair. He felt all this just by openingbis eye-lids.And in his gratitude to God he blessed the thatchof his own humble house, and the swallows thatwere twittering beneath its eaves.Such, perhaps, were some of the feelings whichAllanBrueeexperienced on being restored to sight.But faint and imperfect must be every picture ofman’s inner soul. This, however, is true that Al¬lan Bruce now felt that his blindness had been tohim, in many respects, a blessing. It had touchedall hearts with kindness towards him and his wifewhen they were poor; it had kept his feet withinthe doors of his house, or within the gate of hisgarden, often when they might otherwise havewandered into less happy and innocent places; itturned to him the sole undivided love of his sweetcontented Fanny ; it gave to the filial tendernessof his children something of fondest passion; andit taught him moderation in all things, humility,reverence, and perfect resignation of the Divine22Will. It may, therefore, be truly said, that whenthe blameless man once more lifted up his seeingeves, in all things he beheld God.Soon after this time, a small Nursery-gardenbetween Roslin and Lasswade, a bank slopingdown gently to the Esk, was on sale, and AllanBruce was able to purchase it. Such an employ¬ment seemed peculiarly fitted for him, and alsocompatible with his other profession. He had ac¬quired, during his blindness, much useful informa¬tion from the readings of his wife or children; andhaving been a gardener in his youth, among hismany other avocations, he had especially extendedhis knowledge respecting flowers, shrubs, andtrees. Here he follows that healthy, pleasant, andintelligent occupation. Among his other assistantGardeners there is one man with a head white assnow, but a ruddy and cheerful countenance, who,from his self-importance, seems to be the proprie¬tor of the garden. This is Allan’s Father, wholives in a small cottage adjoining, takes care ofall the gardening tools, and is master of the bee¬hives. His old Mother, too, is sometimes seenweeding; butoftenerwithhergrandchildren, whenin the evenings, after school, they are playing onthe green plat by the Sun Dial, with flowers gar¬landed round their heads, or feeding the large troutin the clear silvery well near the roots of thecelebrated Pear Tree.A]¥EC!*OTE.Sour Milk Wholesale.Sometime ago, the frolics of the HonourableMr made a great noise in the newspapers.The following records one of the most whimsicalacts of folly :—One morning, after having danced all night atan assembly, he sauntered out, with the Marquisof leaning on his arm; and in crossing St.Andrew’s Square, found an old rustic standing be¬fore the door of Dumbreck’s Hotel, with his cartfull of butter-milk barrels. He quickly concertedwith the Marquis a scheme of fun, whereby themilk of the old man found a very different destinyto what its owner intended. They first jumped upin front of the cart, seized the halter, and gallopedoff, leaving the poor man to follow as he bestcould, then took out all the spiggots, and in grandslyle drove along George-street, past the AssemblyRooms, to the astonishment of the fashionableswhom they had lately left; then down Frederick-ftreet, along Prince’s-street, and back again to St.Andrew’s-Square, all the time followed by the oldmilk-man, who, in the agony of his heart, at see¬ing his valuable property deluging the causeway,exhausted his whole vocabulary of exclamations,24in giving vent to his indignation. With his sky-blue top coat flying behind him, and his roughshod heels striking fire from the pavement, he pur¬sued his ravished cart, shouting as loud as his ex-hausted lungs would permit, “O, ye unhangedblackguards!—ye villans!—ye deil’s buokies !—I’ll ha’e the law o’ ye, gin there be law in Em-brugh, ye vagabonds!—I’ll get ye a better housethan your father ever biggit, for ye, ye rascals !—I’ll got ye claped up as sure as ye’re leevin’, yerampaging Embrugh hallanshankers !” As soonas he arrived at the Hotel, the Marquis deliveredthe reins into his hand; but blue-bonnet vowed hewouldnotquit him, till hehad ascertained his name,and that of his companion. Mr. put hishand into his pocket, and drew out a piece of pa¬per, which he said contained the required addres¬ses; and while the old man unfolded it, our youngheroes took the opportunity to escape. The bitof paper turned out to be a ten pound note, ‘ Ah,stop, my bonny lads,’ cries the appeased milk-man,‘ I’ve something to say t'ye. ‘ Will ye need onymair milk the morn ?’FINIS.