: i Hidden Things brought to highlyF O R T H EIncreafe of KnowledgeIn READING theBIBLEJi ping an Explanation'of the Ctyns^ Money, Weights, Me<t-vlfures;, mentioned in the BIBLE, as Shekels, Talents^a ' j pieces of Silver, Silverings, Pence, And what they5’i! are in value in Gold and Silver, according to the Englijlyiu current Moneyj being caft up jn Shekels, Drams* ando|from Oneto Three Hundred and Fifty Thoufand1| Talents, in plain Words for the underftandingofany thati(| can read the BIBLE: ■ .illfo, in what Chapters and Yerfe or'Verfes, they are to beIf found.jikewife the Weights and Meafures, how much they areIndaUb, Hard Words of Offices and SeFts, and whereforeI one patt of the Bible is called Canonical, and the othef.| Apocrypha, Explained.By John Axfotd.n 'ery Ufefull for all that can read Englijh, and for all SchoL' lars, the like never done before.roverbs 9; 9: Injirutt the Wife and he will be Wife’i 'Teach ARighteous Man, and he will increafe in Knowledge-.tdinbur^b, * Re-printed and-Sold by James IVatfori11 in Craig % Oofs, on the Northfide oi the Croft^TO THEREADER'T' O R a general good, and for the increafe of* knowledge and for underftanding in readingBible, I have been at fome pains and troublei examining (everal Didionaries for the findingi t the true value of the Coins and Money men-rmed in the Bible. And alfo the Weights andi eafures. And what the Shekels are, of whichHere are three forts; the Common, the Kings,|d of the Sanifuary, fo like wife there areiree forts of Talents, the Common,theKings,Id of the Sanduary ,* which I have caftup bothtisjCold, Silver and Weight: And how muchrich is, according to the current Englilh Money,pm one to three hundred and fifty thoufand Ta¬ints, in plain words. And alfo of the pieces ofdvet, Silverings, Pence: And in what Chapter> Chapters, Verfe or Verfesany of them are tofound. And alfo the Mealures, how much a-’ of them is of EngU[h, Alfo in this Edition, I* ve added the Money, Weights, Meafures,men«pned in the Apocrypha, which word fignifies ofp Authority, or hidden, or doubtful. The Biblerefore the Apocrypha) is called Canonical,whichnifies approved by common Confent, or ex-t Rule.. Which Divifion was made about Fourjundred years after Chrift, there being affemb-I i four hundred Bifiiops of Carthage in Africa,A 2 wfi#.. To'thc Reader. Iwho ordain’d, that all the Bible from Genejit to thend of Malacby be called Canonical, and alfiithe New Teftamenr, the other dpocrfpbaX had aSfo the hard words I have explained, as of OfficSe&s, Pharifees, Herodians, Tetrarch, ProfeliteLegion, Stoicks, and divers others^ being vefufefal for all people that can read the Bible,whereby they will come to know the exceeding variches of King David, SMmon, and the Queen tHTSbeba, there being no Emperor, King, Prince (fljPotentat now in the World, or ever were befoilTchat hath, or had the like; and alfo other Kin®;in thofe times. All which is fullv mentioned njwhat follows. The like never before in fo plai»ja way for all perfons that can read Evglifh,whz[dfcy their knowledge may beencreafed, their* utf jidetftandings bettered,* and all to the Glory of AS r^nighty GOD, is the delire of him who dotl .<pijibiifh it for a general Good.John Axftrd. [-a iv*V.iI(s)<t Money, Weights and Meafures, mtntioneMn thsOld and New Ifsfiament, wiibtbeir Value, and how\mucb it u in EnglHh \Urrtnt Money either in Goldjll or Silver. In regard Troy weight being the mod an^Ucknt weight, by which what follows is counted ori'j tajl up in Coin or Weight, &c. Troy weight eight“ Drams makes an Ounce, and Twelve Ounces a pound.Here are three forts or kinds of fhekels, alfoof Talents mentioned in Scripture,t'irii, the common fhekel, which was a quar-j| r of an ounce, or 2 Drams,worth fifteen pence%jF The Kings fiickel weighed 3 drams, worth oneMilling ten pence half penny.Thefhekel of the Sandluary orxTemple,weigh-1 four Drams, or half an Ounce, worth twofilings fix pence.Alfo there are three forts of Talents. The com-lOn Talent,which weighed three thoufand quar¬ts of Ounces, or common fhekets, which is fix||ioufand Drams;and is one hundred eighty fevenounds ten fhiMing.The Kings Talent weighed ihree thoufand ofic Kings fhekels, which is pine thoufand Dramsnd is 281 I. y. /.ThcTalent of the Temple weighed three thou-ind fhekels of the Temple,which is lo many half)unces,‘which comes to 306 feventy five pounds.A lilvering or peiceof filver often mentioned,worth two fhtllings fix pence.The comnign fhskgl of Gold, is two dramsi/OEth if /. • Th©( 6 )The kings ftiekel of Gold is three Drams,wort; Gione pound rwo /hillings fix pence. •The /hekel of Gold of the Templeisfour drams »;ior half an ounce, worth i l. 10. t. iThe common Talent of Gold is worth twc >.thoufand two hundred fifty' Pounds,The Kings Talent of Gold, is worth three thou, j;fand three hundred feventy five pounds. HfThe Talent of Gold of the Sanctuary or Tern t:pie, is worth four theufand five hundred pounds fcTheJtjyr had another weight called Mina, bu tnot of fo much ufe as the other; the -commoS bMina offilver, which is fixty Drams, or thirty fe* Uven /hillings'fix pence.The Kings Mina being eighty Drachms, o :Drams, is fifty /hillings.The Mina of the Templets one hundred drami ;that is three pounds two /billing fix pence.There is .aifo a Gerah, which is one penny hal, ;penny.Now fellowt, what the Money throw the whole Bible »worth, with the Namei of the Chapters, andVerjejUVerfes where it is mentioned.GEn. 20.16. And to Sarah, Abimelech/flha! itI have given to thy Brother, one thou* (.'land pieces of filver, which were called filverings; iis one hundred twenty five pound.Gen. 25. 16: &nd Abraham bought a Burying rplace for 400 (hekels of filver current money with the?,merchant, which were common /hekel?, is twenty >five pounds. *■ GetkC 7 )jett. 24. 22. That the man took a ^Utn Ear-ringla/faflte&el weight, is feven killings fix pence ;i two bracelet} for her hands, often (hekels weight ofd, is 7 pound ten /hillings.Gen. 57. 28. fofepb's Brethren fold him for 20esofjtlver, which is two pound‘10 /hilling,pen. 4f. 22. He gave to Behjamin 300 pictes ofper is 37 1. 10 s.Exodus 25-. 29. Of a talmt of pure gold {ball heke it, with all thefe vejfels, is four choufand fivejidred pounds.Exod. 3 c. 13. Every one that was numhred to give/ a jhekel of fiver of the SantUary ; is one /hillingke pence.Jixod. 37. 23. 24, /ndhe made his [even Lamps,l| his [nufftrs, and his Jhuff-Aijhes of pure getd of a ta*11 weight, is four thoufand five hundred pounds,wlifh current noonev.iJjixod. 3 8. 24. /.U the gold that Was oecupied, the| of the Offering was twenty nine talents, and (evenMred thirty fhtkels, after the jlrtkeh of the Sanihtarj^isne hundred twenty one thoufand five hundredky five pounds.¥ erf. 2 9. And the filvtr of them that was numbreiIt Congregation was one hundred talents, and onerand feven hundred (event) five fhekeh after the (hebtbejanttuary, comes to thirty feven thoufandn hundred twenty one pounds fevsnteenings fix pence.iff. 27. And of the hundred talentt of (liver wer t\tbefocketioftkefancluarr, and the foehn of theVaily one hundred(ocketi, a talent for afocket, is th$y feven choufjnd (ive hundred pounds,Perfi 28. And of the thoufand (even hundered fevei^5- fnekeU hemadethe hooki for the pillars }is two hundt Hi “twenty one pounds hcxeen fhillings eight pence^ 1Verf. 29. the *Rra(s of the Offering was feveq ‘Talents and two tboufand four hundred (Ittkels in weiglis tight thoufand eight hundred fifty pounds in ivtiglor feventy nine tun and a haif.Lev, 27, 5. 4. The e(limation of a Male fri [twenty Tears old so fixty, fifty (hekeh of filver of the So ■',ttuarys is fix pounds five fiiiliings,- if a Female m ft) (hekels, is 4 1. I 5 f. I 'Terf. f, If it he from five to twenty years old ofmale, twenty [hekels, is fifty fliiilings, • And 7flsekels, is twenty five fliillingSiVerf.6.\f from a month to five years old of a Male fifhekels, is twelve Shillings three Pence, A Fenu ,tbtee (hekets, is feven Shillings and fixpence. _ JrFerf, 7. If fromfixty and above, of a Mate fifteen (l.kels, is thirty feven Shillings fix Pence. A Fenk ,ten fhekels, is twenty five Shillings.Ferf. 16. An homer of Barly feeds at fifty (bckels,, Vis fix Pounds five Shillings.Num. ;. 47. Thou (halt even take five (hekels for t'try perfon by the tole, after the Shekel of the $an<3u j.ty, is twelve Shillings fix Pence a man.Ferf jo. Of the fir(l born of the children of Ifraelh “he the Money, atboufand three hundred threeftore afive [hektls, after the (Jsekel of the Santtuary, is one hidred feventy Pounds twelve Shillings fix Pence,Shekel of the San&uarv is twenty Gerahs, a Clah * a Penny Half-penny*1(9) . 1Numi. 7. 12, 15, 14. Andhe that offered his Offi*f.the’firft was Nahfhan the Son ot Amminidahjimfferirig was one filver Charger of one hundredirty Shekels weight, according to the Shekel oflie Sanduary, is fifteen Pounds five Shillings. Ondliver Bowel feventy Shekels, is eight Pound fif*ten Shillings One Incenfe Cup of Gold, of teniekels (in another trahflation it is called a gold-h fpoonj is fifteen pounds, fo the worth of goldInd filver which one prince offered is 40 pounds*I' the whole offerings of the twelve Princes werafilver Chargers, Bowls,golden Cups and Pahs;ounts unto 480 pounds.| Numb. 31. 32. And ail the offerings that was of»Ired to the Lord,of the Captains of f bou/ands and\tiundredt,was fixteen thoufand feven hundred fiftfllekels of Gold of the Sanctuary, is twenty fiv®lloufand one hundred twenty five pounds Cur»intEnglifh Money. Read the 31 Chapter oflumbers, it will be worth Obfervation,' Deut. 2. 19. And fhall condemn him in atttandrfcd fhekels of filver, being common, is. fixtOunds five {hillings.Verf. 29. Shall give unto the DatnfeU Father fiftfitktls of filver, Common, is 3/. 21.- 6d.Jofima 6. 12. Andhchan (aid, 1 Jaw among tireOils a goodly Babyldmfh garment and two hundredhkds of filver,, which were common, is 12 /. 10 s*id a Wedgeof gold of fifteen (hekels^QtnmQti weight,9. 4. And they gave him Jeventy pun of /J-fjVtr or (ilytriftgs, is 81 10. (h,judges 16. $ . And the Lords of the camnto Dahteh to have ber entice Ssmjpfo^, and/aid tbnwould give her every one eleven hundred pieces offilverijvhich werealfb called fiivei ings, is one hundreJ !thirty feven pounds ten ihi lings each Lord, befJng five of them in the whole, is 687 \, 10 s.judges iy. 12. And Vlicah faid to bis Mother tbt\teyen hundredfloekels offilver was with me, whicl ’were common, which comes to fixty eigh 1pounds filteeh /hilling.Ez,ra 8. 29. 1 even weighed unto th it bands ft ,hundred and fifty talents of fiver, being of the Sanjjdiuary, is two hundred fourty three thoufand fel‘yen hundred and fifty pounds, of ftlvtr fiefiels (mlhundred talents^is thirty feven thoutand 'five hundlirecl pounds, 'and of gold Vejjcls an hundred talents, Mmounts unto four hundred and fifty thoafancpounds,* and twenty Bajons of gold a iboujand Oranti 'pach Dram being worth feven fhiliings fix penc4is three hundred leventy'five pounds. There vye'r k,:$woVelTels of fineCopper,a.s precious as gold, bu)1tlie weight not mentioned: the.total fum of hlltn^\efle!s of gold and filver, amounts to ieVen huni [dred thti^cy one^thoufand fix iiuncired twenty ant ;five pounds. :Efiber 3. 11. if it fleafe the King let it fie wrltt*that they may be deffnyed, and VWsd fayfi tboufandii flenttof fiver, being the Kings, comes iuntb ' fwl ^hundred eighty one thouland two hundred an,fifty pounds,    * ^(11)I i Samuel i' ^6. Shall come and bow to him for*ice of Money, or {mailpiece of Jilvet, &C. is penny■ Ilf penny farthing.I i Sam. 9. P. stnd Saul’s fervant (aid, 1 have the■ urtb part of a (hekel «f fiher, which is three peaceliree farthings.1 Sam. 17. 4. 5. Goliath of Gath, -whofe heightIf as fix Cubits and alpanj he was armed with a6ioat of Mail, which weighed five thoufand ftiek-3 s of brafs, which is one hundred four pounds||vo ounces,and the flafFof his fpear, was like aJj/eavers beam: and his fpears head weighed fixdundred fhekels of Iron, which is twelve pounds:nd a half.2 Sam. 14. zS.WhcnAbfalom polled his head atvery years end he weighed his hair at two bund¬ed Ihekels by the Kings weight, which U fix>ounds Three Ounces.z Sam. 18. ir, 12. /W Joel faid, 1 would haveiven th:e ten fhekels, being the Kings, is eighteenhillings nine pence, and the mart anjwtred: if 1hould receive a thoujand fhekeis of ft her inmy handle,4 '9? I- if- 02 Sam. 12. 50. And be took their Kin% of Amor’sCrown from off hit Head,which weighed a talent of gold;aeing the Kings, is three thoufand three'hundred[cventy five pounds, current Engtijh money.2 Sam. 24. 24. D avid bought the t hr effing Floor,and the Oxen, for fifty ffekels of ftlvir, being of theSan&uary, is,fix pounds five fhiilings,B 21 KingsI Kings 9. 14. AndR'uaxn ftntthe King fix /forJ-talents of Gold, being the Kings talent is four bund* r,;■ red five thoufand pounds Englifb current Moneys rPerfe 28. And tb*y came to fetched froitt 1theme four hundred & twenty talents of gold & brougR •ittoKing^odomon, is one Million four hundrei \feventy thbufand five huundred pounds.A Millioflis a rHfcufand thoufand or ten hundred thoufanc jI Kings ro», 10. The Queen of Sheba gave the Kin 1fix [core talents of Gold.is four hundred five thoufainpounds current Engli(h Money.Verf. 14. Now the weight of Gdd that came unt\ ;j;King Solomon in one year,was fix hundred fixty fix tai {lents of gold, is two Miltons two hundred forty [even thud* rfand [even hundredfifty pounds^ current Engiijh moi'iei i1Verf, l6. And iST/K^ Solomoa made two Lttndrthxtargets of beaten gold, fix hundred jhekels went to one tar- :jget i which is nine hundred pounds worth of goW •to one targetjthe worth ofgold to the two huro :■dred targets in the whole,isone hundred thoufantl ipound. ;Verf. 17. And he made three Hundred(hields of Goldx 1three found of Gold to one fhield, comes to owe hundredtwenty pounds. So that the worth of gold to thethree hundred fliields, amounts unto thirty fix.thoufand pounds.Verf. 29. And there came up a Chariot from Egyptfor fix hundred jhekeli offilver%\s 56 pounds five (nil- f;ings: And a horfe for one hundred and fifty jhekels offil- : .yen is fourteen pound one Hulling three pence: ;l Kings id. 24. And be baugbt the Hill Samaria 0/Shomecnner for two talents of filver, is ^62], 10 (h. theigs Talent.1 Kings zo> 39. Thy Life flail go for his Life, or elfeit flalt pay a talent of fiver, being common talent,187 1. lofti.2 Kings s'. 23. .<WNaaman faii, take two ta¬ts of fiver,being the Kings talent, is five hund-SJ fixty two pounds ten (hillings.2 Kings 6.2^. 4 great famine twSamaria and they\iged it untill an/iff s Head Was fold for four (cole pieces• tlver wbic is 10 ponnd. And the fourth part oft Lab of Doves Dung( which is half a pint ) fore pieces of li ver, which is twelve (hillings fixInce.They uled theDovesDung in ftead of Salt,ip Kings 7. 1. Then Elilha (aid, Hear the Word of thertf' to morrow about this time (had a Meafure of finewer be fold for a flekefwhichh one (hilling threehce, and two Meafures of Early for a (hekel, A mea-•e being a Bufhel^ it came to pafs as the Manof)d had faid.-2 Kings xe.19.20.^w^Menahem a thou-dtalents of (ilver: is two hundred eighty one>ufand two hundred and fifty pounds: Heexatt-of eath man that is wealthy fifty flekelt, is threeunds two (hillings fix pence.1 Chron. 12. 2$. David gave to Oman for thece fix hundred flekels of gold by weight, the (hekelthe San<auary,is nine hundred pound,x Cbron. 22. 14, Now behold in my trouble ('anotheranftation hath it in my poverty ) J have preparedtbs bouft of tbt Lord one hundred thou/and talents ofGold( ^4 ^GoU be!,0g of the Sanftuaiy amounts to fourty ^thoufand millions current En £ Ii(h money, A milheiftg a ihoufand thoufand, or ten hundrlthaufana: and « tbenfand thoufand talents of filwwhich is in EngUJh current money, thirty fevfiftiUipns five hundred thoufapd pounds.I Cbrntt. 39. 7. And g^vt, for. the ftrvice of the htofGod if gold, five tboujand tqleqts and ten tboufJ^rams^ccoftding to the talent of the fanduary,Z millions two hundred fifty three thoufand fevhundred and fifty pounds; andof/ilver ten tbouf \fuieTfts : ( which is three millions feven hundq •and fifty pounds, E»g///fccurrent money) and] ;Brafs eighteen thoujand talents: which is in weig |two millions two hundred and fifty thoufapounds; f which is onethouland fourTun and n;hundred thirty two pounds) and of Iron onebund^ ,thou!and talents^ which is in weight .twelve mrlli<| “five hundred thoufand pounds;which is five th?land five hundred feventy nine Xun eleven hu^red fyven^y eight pounds.2 ckren, 3. 8. And he overlaid it }t>ltb fine goUtmillUi'fix hundred talents of the fandluary, is two millifileven hundred thpufand pounds.E'er/e 9. And the weight of tIf e Nails was fifty (iafgoldfii feveoty five pounds; all according to clpent EngUfh money.2 Cbron. 8. 18. And they took from Ophirhundred and fifty talents of gold and brought then jjKjng Solomon; which is one million fire hundi jand eightsso thpuiand leveft hundred and f.ppjmds. zCbI. Chron. 9. 9 Andpe gave the King Qrie hundred\ twenty talents of Gold, according to the Kings fa-1, is four hundred five thodfand pounds,t'erf. r$. Now the weight of gold that catne Untog Solomon in one Year> was fix hundred fixty fix ta-s, according to the Kings talent, is two mil It-Is two hundred fourty feven thoufand 7 hund-II and fifry pounds3Ewg/i/» current mo'ney.Wed. if. And King So\om6n made two hundredl\g(ts of beaten gold}Six hundred {hektls of gold to onejgt*,which is nine hundred pounds worth to onej rger, the worth of gold to the two hurdredilrgets, is one hundred eighty thoufand poundsflVerf. 16. And three hundred pitlds made 0] beaten^Ijhree hundred (hekelt went to a pieldt «whitb isfir hundred and fifty pounds:The worth ofgoftfl|the three Hundred &ield*,is one hundred thirtye thoufand pounds, according to the fhekel 6iIs Sant^urlry.2 Cbron: ifz6. He hired an hundred thoufahd va-|nt men out of Ijrael, forone hundred talents 6t”|rer, the Kings talent, is iSizy pounds.ki'Cbrtin. 27. f.'And the Children-df >fH»8w.gavei m the fame year,one hundred taiehts' of ^fiiyetyihg common, is 18750 pounds.xCbron. 36. 5. And condemned the Larid inw talents of filver, being common, is eighteepbnfand feven hundred and'eighty pounds. Antithfcm'bfgoia being ebrnmon,1 is 22fdt)6Urtds.Jer: 32. 9. 'And 1 weighed him the Money fiVin fe*iintcen Shekels of Silvery being common,is one and^ kmy /hillings and three pence,{ 16) rEzekiel 41;. 12. And thefhekel fliail be twentf'Gerahs, a Gerabis penny haif penny.Hofea 3. 2. Se l bought her unto me for fifteen piecw 5of Silver, is thirty feven /hillings fix pence.Here follows the Copns and Money mentioned in theApocrypha.f I ^Obit 1. 10. And he lent to Gabet ot RagespJL town in Mpdia, according to fonie tranlls-Ltions,ten pounds in filver,that is thirty poundsjbuilaccording to the Englifh tranflation ten talents, be¬ing common, is one thoufand eight hundred f«-1venty five pounds.1 Maccabees 4. 42. Demetrius King of Syria of-Lfered to give yearly to the Jews to the Building of|the Temple,fifteen thoufand .fhekelsof iilver beingLof the Sancluary, that is one thoufand MinasJ.which, at thirty feven fhillingsfix pence, thelVftjL.na is one thoufan^ eight hundred feventy fiv|Lpounds.And would reftore what had been yearly) y,taken a way,being five thoufand /hekels of iilver,is fix hundred twenty five pounds. 1 p..1 Mace. 1,3. 19. So he fent to Tryphon one hunt ,rdred talents of filver being common, is eight tho|H£and feven hundred fifty pounds Englifli moneysX /rxffLl,, 1^., uW/JUr* Ablli LliW a/hield of Gold, weighing one thoufand pounds, iifourty thoufand pounds Engli[h current money, j1 Mac. iy. 31. Or elfe give me for them afthundred talents of filvcr,and for the tributes cthe:'fivehundred talents,in the whole is, being com ,•ma'C 17 )ijOne hundred eighty feven thoufand five hun-pounds,a common talent of filverds one hun-eigbty feren pounds ten jhillings.\ rtr[ 35. Yet we will give one hundred talents■atlthem, being fi ver, is eighteen thoufand feven'l idred fifty pounds.V i Macc. 3, it. If it pleafe the King; let it be writ-a \tbat they may be dejlroyed, and 1 wtU pay a theajandxnts of Silver, being the Kings, comes unto twon, idred eighty one thoufand two hundred andq y pounds.t Macc. 4. 8. 9. And he came to the King andt; >mifed him three hundred and threefcore ta-i its of filver, and of another Rent fourfcore ta-f|ts of filver, befides this he promifed him onetbndred and fifty talents of filver, in the whole,Ids hundred ninety,being common, is one hun-■ fed ten thoufand fix hundred twenty five poundMoney.aYerf. ly.Wbicb brought tbret hundred Drachma ofver for a factijice, is nine pounds feVen killingspence, promifing the King three hundred talents ofis being common, fifty fix thoufand two>i|indred fifty pounds.2 Maccab. 8. 10. Ordained alfo a tribute for theJ ng of tw$ thoufand taknts of Silver, which the Ro-fhns fhouU havering cqpmon, is three hundredHrenty five thoufand pounds, Enghfl) Money.Verf. 11. Profnifing to fell fourfcore and teniws for one talent of filver,common, is One hon¬ed eighty feven pounds tea {hillings,£ WereHere beglnt the New Tejlantent Coynt, &C.MAlthew x'y. 27. And take up the Vifh that firleometb up, when thou had opened ha meuththou Jhalt find a piece of money, that take and give ftme and thee, which was called a .Stater, oc twDidrachmas, is two fliillings fit pence.Matth. 18. 24. 28. One wat brought to him wi••wed him ten tboufand talents, which was forgiven hitbeing common talents, is one million eight hut,eked feventy five thoufand pounds. One of his ftlow Jervcmts ow d him five hundred pence called Dractma,feven pence half pe«ny,is three pound 2 fhfing fix pence,he would not forgive his fellow ft Ctvent. ; ijMatth, 22. 19. And they flsewed him a penny ;b\ing feven pence half penny.Matth. 25. i). To one he gave five tolentsybc\ itcommon,is mne hundred thirty ieven pounds t tihillings: To another two talents,\s three hundred fverity fwepounds:To oncthtr oneTalentfts i8y l. icMatth. 20. y. He agreed with the Laboultrs forpenis) a day, which is feven pence half penny, b*ing the Reman penny Drachma.Matth. 26, ly. And they covetsantei with Judifor thilty pieces of Silver, called alfo filverings, hing half an ounce of filver,being two Ihillings fpence, which comes to 5 1. iy >.Adis 19. Andthey counted tbepriee,and fo foist :■it Fifty tboufand piecet of £»'iwr,whi.C,a]i fix th<>ulaf:|l(-two hundred and fihy pounds. " ®11 Menfurcs mentioned in the Scripture} of Truth:: '"'Here are divers kind of Cubits; r The Com-L mon Cubit was from the Elboe to.the long: ngers end, ora foot and a half, or half a yard.TheKings Cubit one and twenty, inches or ands breadth more than the common. 3. Thebit of the San&uary, contains two.of the con*-»n,being a full yard. 4. The Geometrical Cubicitainsfix common Cubits,which tsthree¥ards:cording to this Cubit it's thought Noah’s Arks built.A Heed is fix common cubits & a hand:adth, which is 3 inches. A Pace is y foot; A•dong izy paces, or 40 Perch. A mile is 1000ices or 8 Furlongs, but in theScripture or Hebrew,js much as a man can go in half a day, or be¬aten meal and meal. Judges 20. 16. Among allPeopleytbere were 700 cbo(en men that could Jhng,at-u hair breadth and notmifs. Now ahairs breadth is,: 48 part of an inch, 12 inches is a foot. 16 footd a half is a Perch, 40 Perch is a Furlong,8 fur-gigs is a Mile, A Sabbath days journey, accord -g to Scripture, is 600 Paces.’| Me a fur es mentioned in the Bible: Firft of Dry;jA Cab ts a ^»«rf,/i»Homer » a Quart and a half,a Seath v a Gallon and a half, an Ephath isW a Bufljtl and a Pottle, half an Homer u 7 Bufljels.\id a Quart, an Homer or Cor is 14 Bufljels and a\ittlt, a Chenix by feme is counted three pints five oun-rs and a half, by others a Qjsart.( 20 )The Liquid or Wet Meafure^ a Log U half a pint,Hin is three Quarts, a Reth is 9 Gallons ; Quarts,Pot ^ Sectary, is a pint and a half, a Firkin is/oiGallons and a half.We read in the Scripture of Legions.MAtth. 26. 55. Tbinkdl thou that 1 cannot »o)pray to wsy Father, and he jhad prefeptly give »jmore than 12 Legions of Angels. 12 Legions is eighlthoufand (even hund.ed and fifty.Luke 8. %o Jefus askt bins,what ts thy Name, hefaLegion,* hecauje many Devils were in him.Romulus,who built Rome, bis Legion confiftedi3000 Foot Men, and 300 Hoife-Men.Afcer,in Julius Cafar's time, which was aboiyo years before Chrift,a Legion was 590c Fiand 300 Horfe-men.He[ycb faith, a Legion was 6666. |After, in Auguftus, and lihems Cxfar’s tin>Chrift being born and fuffer'd, a Legion was.thoufand Foot, and 730 HorferMen.Of Offices and Conditions of Men. iP/fo-wrc^isa FatherofaFamily, as AbrahamIJaac, Jacob and his fans.Judges or Temporaltor a time, fupream Governoyrs appointed oy;the Children of l/rael. King, over a National itKings after the falling of the ten Tribes of 1/rahElders or Senators, the feventy, or Sanhedrins, CM;ars, Provens or Sheriffs, Judges or Rn/wr,'fuch jjiiidetermined Controveriies in particular Cities,Hebti( 2i )is brew from Abraham, and Jfraelite from 'Jacobfjjho was named llratl, called Children of Ifrael.t'l frojeliteoi the Covenant,who fubmitred unto theM aw and was Circumcifed. A Vrojelite of theigate,:' r Stranger, who worftiipped the true God andiras now Circumcifed. The Officer or Govern-jur appointed b> the Kings of jjjyria and Verfta,£ leads of the people in Captivity under the Gre-i an monarchy. The Mactabees,ox the fuccefibrsof\\udas Matcabem. High Priefts who preiided aliijJtagty Government or power under the Romannimperors. Prefidents or Governours, fern fromxlome with Imperial power. Tetraches who hadikingly power over fome provinceb.Proconfuls ora^eputs of Provinces,inferior Officers. Publican^jjvho were Tribute or Taxgatherers, who wereifiated of th&Jews. Centurion a Captain of a hun-sdred men.High Prieft who only might enter intolifhe Holy of Holies, Prieft or who fujppiiedithe Pr»e//’r Office, in cafe he was dil abled,i&me let apart/or the War for expedition tfie Tonshf Aaron, who had divers Ranks Degrees apd Of-afices in the temple. Alio the Ions of Levi] whoiwere of three ranks and orders, Centurions, Chero-jthites, Merarites. Alfo Netbimins, inferior feirvantsjof the Priefts and Levites, not of their Tribe,»to draw Water and cleave Wood. Prophetsjwho were anciently called Seers, who tore-Itold things to come, and denunced Gods Judg¬ements agaiaft Idolaters and Evil Doers, and; taught the Pepple, Children of the Prophets,theirDif,—  nriDiw>iples or Scholars. Wile Men called fo in itatic >n of the fVife Min oftbi Eaff, or Grecian ?b{lofophers. Scribes, Writers or Expounders ofLawi. Rabbles, Doctors or Teachers of Ifrael. Libertitses, or freed out of Rwe, who being Jew*Vro(\ilit6's has a Synagogue, or Oratory for themfelyes. Gablonites, or Galileans, who pretended ‘unlawful to obey an Heathen-Magiftrat.who fha ped their Religion to the times, and illparticul ar flattered Hcrotf. Epicureanf, who placeitheir h?ippinefs in the pleafures and delights ofirhis life Stoicks who denyed the liberty of th| ■;Will,and pretended all events was determin’d bjlf atal .ntjceflity, Siman Author of the Herefil6 f th'ef Inofticfo, who taught, that men, howevervicious in their practice,fhould be fayed by their jknowl edge. Nicolatbians, the Difciples of Nicholas.dme p f the feven Deacons,who taught the Com-;munit y of Wives,or men to have more Wives than «one. . tfazarites, who under a Vow abftained fromWine , Nazatrens, profeffing Chriftianity. Ze/o/^or Sic cori, or murmurers,who under the pretencSof the' Law thought themfelves authorized to com* 1mic a; ny out-rages.P^ri/w, leparatifts,who having ian of union of their ownGodlinefsdefpifed orhers,Sadat ees, who denyed the Refurrection, of Angelor Sf urit, Samaritans, mungrel profelTors, partlyHeat hen and partly Jews, the off-fpring of the fjijfyri arts fent to Samaria. Apo(tle miflion or fent j,our S aviour had twelve, and after leventy, and ffenc them to preach the Gofpel. Bilhops, or O-ver« [( 23 ) v'eers: And their fuccelfors who had the (3o-mment of the Church, as they are mendoi^ediithe Epiftles of P«»/ and Peter: Alfo Deacons,io were to Preach the Gofpel, and take cart 5 of: poor..iln the Old Teflament or Bible, are 777 chapters.: the New Tedament, 260 chapters. Jn the Ayo-: iyba 175 chapters. In the Old Teftament, arerfes twenty three Thoufand two hundred and• tec.iveral Both mentionedin the Scriptures, jufpclidto beloftIThe Book of Enoch. Of Iddt, and Gad Sisers.Samuel wrote a Book of the Office and (Inffru-ton of a King.^Solomon wrote a Book of three thoufan d para-and five thoufand fongs.Alfo of the nature of;rbs, Trees, Plants,from the to the Hyfop.IA Book of the Chronicles of the Kings, of Ju-’ and Ifrael.’he Third of the Corinthians.'he Third Epiftle of Peter.The worth of Geld by Troy weight,>ne Pound ofGold is worth Fourty Pound.)ne Ounce is worth 3 pound 6 s. 8! d.)ne grain worth three half penny.The worth of silver by Troy weight,lOne pound is worth three pound, j|One Ounce worth five fhillings. 'iOne peony weight wotth three pence.,One grain worth a half penny.This being the -weight of current Money.Ely Haverdupoize weight, one Pound of Gold il;worth fourty nine pound thirteen ftiillihgs eighi1pence half penny.One pound of filver by Havtrdapolze weighjlworth 3 pounds 15 {hillings 8 pence half penny!By this it appears, that one hundred pound of fi||ver, weighs 26 pounds 5 ounces HaverdupoizibAnd one hundred pound of Gold money, weigh!two pound and about a quarter of an Ounce.