LAUGH AND GROWOR, THE COMICALFAT!Hudget of Wit .A SELECTION OFCHOICE BON MOTS,Irish Blunders^ Repartees, Anecdotes, >c.Care to our coffins adds a nail, no doubt.While e»ery laugh, so merry, draws one out.Prfatfd by H. Crauford B&olseller*1825..Laugh and be Fat!OR, THEvBUDGET OF WIT.A Gentleman recently married, was enjoyingwith his fair one, an evening walk alongthe beach at Musselburgh. That moment a ves¬sel had left the harbour, bound for a foreign port:« Pray, my dear, (says the lady) what is the dif¬ference between exported and transported —Were you, my love, (returned the gentleman)a-board that vessel, you would be exported, andI would be transported.A London lady was on a visit to a friend inEdinburgh, who was at great pains to point outto her ail the delightful prospects of that roman¬tic city : l he stranger, assuming an air of con-itqusnce, generally answered. “’Tis very wellfor a Scotch view!” One delightful evening,,walking along Queen Street, while the autumnalmoon shone with an uncommon lustre, her friend««a!d not help expressing her admiration of theve-spiendent orb of night, when the Cockney drilyremarked, “ It is very well for a Scotch moon !”'Two English gentlemen, soma time ago, visit*JsIed the field of BaanocLburn, so celebrated for tketotal defeat of the English army, by Roberl theBruce, with an army of Scotch heroes, not tonefourth their number: — A sensible countrymanipointed out the positions of both armies, the:stone where the Bruce's standard wss fixed dur¬ing the battle, &c. Highly satisfied with his at¬tention, flie gentleman, on leaving him, pressedhis acceptance of a crown-piece:—“ Na, na,” saidithe honest rnan, returning the money, keepiyour crown-piece, the English hao paid dear en-'ough already fur seeing the field of Bannockburn.''In a party of ladies, on it being reported thata Captain Silk had arrived in town, they exclaim¬ed, with one exception, “ What a name for aisoldier !” “ The fittest name in the world,” re-ijoined a witty female, “ for Silk never can be(Worsted 1”Some time since, at one of our sea-ports, a■noble naval commander, who is a strict disciplin-isrian, accosted a drunken sailor in the street,with “ Wtiat ship do you belong to ?” Jack, whowas a dry fellow, notwithstanding he was drunk,and Had a very eccentric countenance, answeredwith much sang froid, “ .iXm’t know.” “ What'syou-r captain’s name ?” “ Don’t know.” “ Do youknow who I am?” “ No.” “ Why I am com¬mander in chief.” “ Then,” replied he archly,“ you have a d d good birth of it, that’s allI knowr!”Hugh Amor happening to come into Mr.Creech’s sho p oni> day, when an tid woni'in ^vas4<Ending with the printing and paper of a>Bible she was about to purchase, looked over her.•heulder and said, that ‘‘ both were good enougl:for the «ubjecr.'’— O ye mcnster !: exclaimed thewoman ; then turnincr round and ob. erving hiamiserably meagre figure, added, ‘ And he’s atanatomy too !’A West Indian, who had a remarkably fierynose, having fallen ssleep in his chair, a negicboy who was in waiting, ob erved a musquittohoveling round his face. Ouashi eyed the insecttvery attentively : at last he saw him alight on hiitmaster’s nose, and immediately fly off. ‘Ah, d—imyour heart,’ exclaimed the negro, ‘ Me d—n glad•ee you burn you foot.’Some differences lately oecarred between 3corps of Volunteers and their Commandant, fhejregiment was ordered to appear before the in-tspieling General, a«d the Colonel of course gavethe word of command, “ Attention ! '—bhouldettarms ! nut a musi e uor a mu ket nieved. Thocommand was repeated in a louder voice •, thecorps was stifl motionless. I he General muof• uipriced, b-ik. n d to a s rgeam, and a^ke-.l ‘''Vtiy the co. |-s retu ed to act ! ^u’ plaise younhonour, s-\> P..t. Jiiakmg t!-^ due obeitauce,is breavs ttte Co <»nel and the ivgitnent ate awt:en spaikitJg teimaiDuring the hi^h price of coals, a gentleranwmeetitig his coal imn.hant, ir quired whether itlva' proper to lav in a stock. Lhe knight oi theblack diamond shook Lis haad, observing, Coal!'ire Coils now, Sir! To which his custoorsr r,*»f,ied’ “ rm very gi*d to heir it, for liw list to.ient me were all slan'*.”■\ aentlrm^rt having occasion to call for Mr.Joseph G ‘•nj wtiter, foand him af h6me in"** writi’ig cHamiwr. He remarked the great'ieat o« the apartment, and said. It was as hot asan oven, a So it ought” replied Mr. G. “ for•t is here I make my bread.”The late well known Sandy Wood, sarreon iniMmlrargh) was walking through the streets ofrat city during the time of an illumination, when4e ooserved a young rascal, not above i2 years“Se' breaking every window ite could reach,A^ith as much industry as if he had been doin^he most commendable action in the world. EntiSgsd at this mischievous disposition, Sandy seiz¬in hmi by the collar, and asked him what heineant by thus destroying the honest people’s wi«-^ by, it s all for the good of trade, re-^iied the young urchin, I am a glazier. All fofhe good of trade, is it ? said Sandy, raising hisane, and breaking the boy’s head, There, then,hat i for the good of my trade,—I am a surgeoji.Barrymore happening to come late to the thet-i re, and having to dress for his part, was driven0 the last moment, when, to heighten his per.'l ev y, the key of his drawer was amissing ^ n be, “ I must hare swallowed it.”*■ cv^r mmd,” fays Jack Bannister, »« if youaave, u wilt serve to open your chest.”Mr. Curran being retained against a young offi.(I•er, T'iio was indicted for a rerr gross assault*•pened the case in the following ma*ner :—MyLord, I am counsel for the crown ; and I am firstto acquaint your Lordship, that thus soldier.— •Kay, lair, says the military hero, I would hareyou know, Sir, I am »n officer —O Sir, I begyour pardon, says die Counsellor, very drily ;Why then, my Lord, to speak more correctiy,this officer, who is no soldier.Charles Fox, in a Westminster election, hav¬ing applied to a shopkeeper for his vote and in¬terest, the man produced a halter, with which he .said he was ready to oblige him. Mr. Foxthanked him for his kindness, hut said he wouldlay no means deprive him of it, as he presumed 1it was a family-piece.An old bawd being carried before the late Jus- ■tice Bond, for keeping a disorderly house* strong¬ly denied all that was charged against her. Housewife I housewife! said the Justice, howhave you the assurance to deny it ? You do keepa bawdy-house, and I will maintain it.—Willyou, replied the old bawd : the Lord bless you !I always took you to be a kind-hearted gentle¬man.Some time ago a member of Parliament applied Ito the Post-office, to know why some ot his ifranks had been charged The answer was,— ••we suppose, Sir, they were not of your writing. .The hand is not the same. Why, not preciselythe same * but the truth is, 1 happened to be alittle tipsy when 1 wrote them.— Then, Sir, will7iyou be so good in fature as to write drunk, whet■you make free.| ‘ - * 'A voung lady going into a barrack room at'Fort George, saw an officer toasting a slice ofbread on the point of his sword. On which sheexclaimed, 1 think, Sir, you have got the staff oflife on the point of death.A physician seeing Charles Bannister about todrink a glass of brandy, said, Don’t drink thatifilthy stuff; brandy is the worst enemy you have.I know that, replied Charles, but you know, wei are commanded by scripture to love cur enemie*.Dean Jaskson passing one morning throughiChrist-Church quadrangle, met some under gra-Iduates, who walked along without capping. The!Dean called one of them, and asked, Do youtknow who I am i No, Sir, How long have youibeen in College? Eight days, Sir.—Oh, very(well, said the Dean, walking away, puppies don’j• open their eyes till the ninth day.Whilst the immortal Garrick was ene night] performing the part of Hamlet, (a character iai which that inimitable actor displayed an exquisitei knowledge of nature,) and when he was arrivedi at one of the most affecting scenes in that tragedy: the audience all mute attention,—when even •j pin might have been heard falling to the ground,t all at once, to the astonishment of the apectators,) Garrick was seen to burst out into a violent fit ofI laughter, and run suddenly off the stage : In ai moment all the players followed him. The audi?8«nce, amazed at the strangeness of this conduct,east their eyes around every comer of the house,when they immediately discovered the cause ofGarrick’s merriment. A jolly round faced but¬cher was seated in front of one of the high boxes,wiping his bald pate, from which the sweat flow¬ed in copious streams !—his sagacious mastiff, nodoubt eager to enjoy as well as his master, theadmirable Performance of the Prince of Tragedi¬ans, had placed his fore feet upon the front ofthe butcher’s box, and was looking eagerly downupon the stage, with his grave phiz dignified byhis master’s full-bottom’d wig ! The audiencefound it impossible to restrain their gravity at thisludicrous sight. The loudest peals of laughterburst from the pit, the boxes, and the galleries;and it was a great ere the performers could againresume the gravity necessary for performing atragedy s-o deeply interesting.Soon after Dr. Johnson’s return from Scotlandto London, a Scottish lady, at whose house bewas, as a compliment, ordered some hotch-potchfor his dinner. After the doctor had tasted it,she asked him if it was good ?—To which he re¬plied, very good for hogs ?— 1'hen, pray, said th»lady, let me help you to a little mote.The clergyman of a village, a few miles southfrom Edinburgh, (which is almost entirely sur¬rounded by colliers,) being one day engaged inexamining his parishioners on the principles ofthe Christian religion, and finding them extreme¬ly deficient in their knowledge of these divinetruths, felt it his duty to display, in pretty strong9I terms, the punishment th?.t awaited the wickedin a future world ; observing, that they would' be cast into a place of utter darkness, where therewould be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing ofteeth. Let them gnash that have teeth, cries ani old woman a corner of the church , for my part,I have had none these thirty years.Donald M<Gregor, a notorions sheep-lifter(alias sheep-stealer,) in the north Highlands, be¬ing at last overtaken by the grim tyrant of thehuman race, was visited by the minister of theparish whose appearance, however, was by nomeans agreeable to Donald. The holy manWarmly exhorted the dying Highlander to reflectupon the long and black catalogue ot his sins,before it was too late, otherwise he would havea tremendous account to give at the great day of; retribution, when all the crimes he had committedi in this world would appear in dreadful array, asi evidence of his guilt.—Och! Sir, cries the dyingman, and will a’ the sheeps, the cows, and ilkathing Donald has help vJ herself to be there. Un¬doubtedly, replied the parson.— 1 hen. let ilkashentleman tak’ her nain, and Donald will be anhonest man again.George the second being once at a masquer¬ade, he observed Miss Chudleigh in a habit whichvery closely bordeted upon the naked ; “ My dearlady,” said the good-natured monarch, “ Sufferme to put my hand upon that soft bosom.”—‘ Sire,’ said she, ‘ give me your hand, and I willput it on a much softer^place.’ She took his righthand, and put it on hi* own fore-head.10R. rj!?rcr meeting Lady Derby some timesince, ai.c! having acted with her for many yearsin theatre?, barns, and stables, he thought it novast presumption to ask her Ladyship how shedid. The Countess, raising her eve-giass, look-fd douotfal a few moments, and at last lispedout, “ Mr. Pa'mer, if I mistake not.” 4 1 amlorry you have lost your eyes by star-gazing,’'•aid Bob, contemptuously, and walked on.Ouin being one day in a coffee-house, saw ayoung bean enter, in an elegant negligee dress,quite languid with the heat of the day. 44 Wait¬er !” said the coxcomb, in an affected faint voice,‘ waiter, fetch me a dish of coffee, weak as water,and cool as a zephyr !” (^uin, in a voice of thun¬der, immedi-tely vociferated, 4 Waiter, biing mea dish bf coffee, hot as h-11, and strong as d—m-n—n !’ The beau starting, exclaimed, 4 Waiter,what is that gentleman’s name ?’ Quin, in hisusual tremendous tone, exclaimed, 4 W aiter, praywhat is that lady’s name ?’A Highlander was visited on his death-bed byhis clergyman, who exhorted Donald to preparefor another world, by a sincere repentance of allthe crimes he had committed on earth; and ear¬nestly urged the absolute necessity of iorgivinghis enemies. Donald shrugged up his shouldersat this hard request; yet he at last agreed to for¬give every every person who had injured him,except one, who had long been the Highlander'smortal foe, and of whom Donald hoped the par-*on v.culd make an exception. The holy man,kow’eyer, insisted so much on this point, that:1 Donald at last said, « Weel, weel, 5’r, sin«.“ therete no help for it, Donald maun e’en forgi’e her,but,’ turning to his two sons, “nay G—d d—nyou, Duncan and Rory, if you forgie her.’A clergyman chose for his text the followingii words : “ Which of you will go up with me1 Ramoth-Gilead ?” Then pausing, he again andi again repeated the words; when a gallant tari $tarred from his seat, and looking round him,>« with an eye of indignation, he exclaimed, “ willt none of you go with the worthy gentleman ? A*I for my part, I go for one l"The Laird of M Nab was writing to one of• his friends from an Edinburgh Coffee-house,when a gentleman of his acquaintance observed,that he was setting at defiance the laws of ortho¬graphy and grammar. ‘ 1)—n your blood !’ ex¬claimed the Highland chieftain, 4 how can a mamwrite grammar with a pen like this ?’A young woman of Dublin, apprehensive ofsome unhappy effects from an illicit amour, whichshe had for some time carried on with a Dutchsailor, mentioned her situation to a friend, wh*advised her to place her future offspring to heryoung master, as being the richer man of the1 two* ‘ l was thinking of that,’ replied the fairone, 1 but then you know the child will discoverall when it begins to speak Dutch.’About the year thretty-sax, a company differ¬ed, « Whether it was better for a man to ha*sons or doughterg?’ They cou’d na gree, bnt12disputed it pro and con. At last, one of themsaid to Graham of Kinross, (wha had na yokedwi’ them in the argument.) ‘ Laird, what'e youropinion ?’ Quo he, ‘ [ h e had three lads andthree lasses; f watna wht!k o’ them I liked best*ae lang as they suckit their miiher; but d ^’ilhae my share o’ the callants, wi'-c-u they came to«uck their father.A tar cone ir^to the n’t of Drery-Urwthoure, re^ogni'eti one ot his messr.iAtes aloft,imon^r the cods : > Pray. J ck, vyha' <lid it costyou to get into that d—n’d stioir b'lvh r’ Qabeing informed that he oniv a sivninj :—<D — mme. this is fi se business, 1 g.Ave five shtl-litigs to get stowed into this here ho-d.A Highlander having gt>ne viib his master intothe church of Netre-D 'iue at Pans- to hear highmass, was very much delighted with the magni¬ficence of the edifice, the splendour of the clergy¬men’s dresses, and the divine harmony of themusic On leaving church, his master asked himhow he liked the performance ? ‘ Oh, Sir, ’twaswondrous fine,’ replied Donald, ‘ God is servedhere like a shentleman ; but in my country {withreverence be it spoken,) he is treated .iule betterthan a scoundrel.’An Irishman, some years ago, attending theUniversity of Glasgow, waited upon one of themost celebrated teachers of the German flute,desiring to know on what terms he would givehim a few lessons : the flute player informed him,that he generally charged two guinea* for the13:! <5rst month, ard one guinea for the second.—* Then, by my soul,’ replied the Hibernian, ‘ I’ll) com* the second month 1”A countryman sowing his ground, two smart1 fellows riding that way, one of them called to! him with an insolent air, “ Well, honest fellow,] (said ht) ’tis your business to sow, but we reapI the fraiuS of your labour.’' To which the coun-l tryman replied, “'Tis very likely you may fori 1 am sowing hemp."A country fellow, just come up to London,t imd peeping into every shop as he passed by, att last locked into a scrivener’s; where seeing onlyi one man sitting at a desk, could not imagine what’• was sold there; and calling to the clerk, said,; pray sir, what do you sell ? Loggerheads, criedth* otfier. Do you so ? (said the countryman ;)i truly, you have a special trade then, far I see; you have but one left.Twp gentlemen standing together, as a youngl lady passed them, one of them said, there goesi the handsomest woman I ever sawn Siie hear¬ing, turned back, and observing him to be veryugly, answered, I wish, Sir, I could, in return,say aa much of you. t>o you may, Madam, (says1 he) and lie as I did.On a trial at the Admiralty Sessions for shoot-i ing a seaman, the counsel for the crown askingene of the witnossesj which he was for, plaintiffcr defendant. Plaintiff or defendant1 said thestiilor, scratching his head, why, I don’t know14what you mean by plaintiff or defendant, I cometo speik for that there! pointing to the prisoner.You are a pretty felio v for a witness (says thecounsel) not to know what plaintiff or defendantmeans ! Some time after, being asked by thesame counsel, what part of the ship he was in atthe time ? Abaft the binnacle, my lord, says thesailor, \baft the binnacle ! (replied the barrister)what part of the ship is that ? Ha ! ha ! ha !(chuckled the sailor) are not you a pretty fellowof a counsellor (pointing to him archly with hisfinger) not to know where abaft the binnacle is !A clergyman, who wished to know whetherthe children of the parishioners understood theirbibles, asked a lad that he one day found read¬ing the Old Testament, who was the wicked¬est man ? Moses, to be sure, said the boy.—Moses, (exclaimed the parson) Moses ! how canthat be ?—Why, (said the lad,) he broke all th«commandments at once !A little lawyer appearing as evidence in oneof the courts, was asked by a gigantic counsellor,what profession he was ofand having replied,that he was an attorney. You a lawyer! (saidBrief,) why I could put you in my pocket. Verylikely you may, (rejoined the other) and if youdo, you will have more law in your pocket thanin your head.Colonel M . of the P .hire cavalry,was lately complaining, that, from the ignoranceand mafention of his officers, he was obliged todo the whole duty of the regiment, i am, (said15ihe) my own captain, my own lieutenant, my ow»cornet,—and trumpeter also, I presume, said a3'certain witty duchess.When Mr. Fox was canvassing for Westmin-f sttr, he called on a butcher in St. James’ market,to solicit his vote. The knight of the cleaver,without ceremony, thus answered his appphca-i tion : Sir, I admire your head, but damn youri heart! to which Mr. Fox replied, Sir, I admiret your candour, but damn your manners !A learned Scottish lawyer being just called tothe Bench, sent for the peruke-maker to nSeasuref him for a new tye-wig. Ihe peruquier, on ap-r plying his apparatus in one direction, was ol>-l served to smile. Upon which the worthy judgeI desired to know what ludicrous circumstance; gave rise to his mirth ? 1 he barber replied, that■ he could not but remark the extreme length of: his honour’s head. That’s well, (said Lord S.)i we lawyers have occas’on for long heads! The: barber, who by this time had completed the di-i inensicns, now burst out into a fit of laughter;and an explanation being insisted on, at last de¬clared, that he could not possibly contain him¬self, when he discovered that his Lordship’s headwas just as thick as it was long!A certain Bishop had a Biscayan man-servant,whom he ordereo one festival to go to a butcher,who was called David, for a piece of meat, andthen come to the church, where the Bishop wasto preach. Ike Bishop, in his sermon, bringingauthorities from the fccripture in this manner;16Isaiah ssys thus; Jeremiah says thus; at last, hap¬pening to turn towards the door as his servantcame in, went on, And what says David?-—Upon which the Biscayan roared out, He swearsto God, that if vou do not pay your old bill youneed never send to his shop again.A charitable Divine, for the benefit of thecountry where he resided; caused a cnusevray tobe begun; and as he was one day overlookingthe workmen, a certain Nobleman passing by,said to him, well, Doctor, for, all your painsand charity, l don’t take this to be the highwayto heaven. Very true, replied the Doctor, forif it h*d, I should have wondered to have seenyour Lordship here.A dignified Clergyman, going down to spendthe summer, met near his house a comical oldchimney sweeper, with whom he used to chat.So John, says the Doctor, from whence cameyou ? From your house, says Mr. Soot; forthis morning I have swept all your chimnies —How many were there ? says the doctor, No lessthan twenty, quoth John. Well, and how mucha chimney have you ? Only a shilling a-piece,sir. W hy then, quoth the doctor, you haveearned a great deal of moaey in a little tine.—Yes, yes, sir, says John, throwing his bag ofsoot over his shoulder, we black coats get ourmoney easy enough.A countryman going into the office of theCommons wnere the wilts are kept, and gazingon the huge volumes on the shelves, asked if17the?e were all bi'oles ? -No, Sir, answered Oneif the clerks, they are testaments.A countryman very much marked with the^ imall pox, applied to a justice of peace for r»-idress in an affair where one of his neigkhours had!ill-treated him ; but not explaining the business•so dearly as the justice expected, fellow, said hetin a rage, 1 don’t know whether you were inoc-itulated for the small pox or not, but I am surejiyou haee been for stupidity.—Why, ant please[jyou, replied the man, perhaps I might, as you;say, be inoculated for stupidity ; but there was:no occasion to perform that on ycur worship, forayou seem to have had it in the natural way.Two country attornics, overtaking a waggon¬er on the road, and thinking to be witty uponhim, asked, why his fore horse was so fat, andthe rest so lean ? The waggoner knowing them,lanswered, that his fore horse was a lawyer, andnthe rest were his clients.An Irishman, a short time since, bade an cx-[|traordinary price for an alarm clock, and gave asa reason, that, as he loved to rise early, he hadunow nothing to do but pull the string, afid hetwculd wake himself.A countryman, at Burry assizes, was indictedand arraigned for stealing a goose j but the ac-jcusation was false, for he brought a neighbourk>f his, who sware positively, that he rememberedilthat very goose in his possession esrer since it wasa gosling. An Irishman, who was a prisoner forISstealing a gun, hearing this successful defence,prevailed on a fellow countryman of his, to swearthat he remembered the gun in his possessionever since it was a pistol.When the celebrated beau Nash was ill, Dr.Cheyne wrote a prescription for him. The nextday, the Doctor coming to sec his patient, in¬quired if he hid followed his prescription? Nofaith, said Nash, if I had I should have brokemy reck, for I threw it out of a two pair of stairs’window.An Irish gentleman was visited by a friend,who found him a little ruffled ; and being askedthe reason of it, said, he had lost a new pair ofblack silk stockings out of his room, that hadcost him eighteen shillings; but that he hopedhe should get them agaia, for that he had orderedthem to be cried, and had offered half-a-crownof reward. The gentleman observed, that thereward was far too little for such valuable stock¬ings. Plio, said the Irish gentleman, I ®rderedthe cryer to say they were wrested.One saying to another, you speak foolishly,he answered, It is that you may understand me.A military officer of diminutive stature, wasdrilling a tall Irish recruit. Hold up your head,said the officer, elevating the chin of the Irish¬man with the end of his cane, to an angle ofnearly forty degrees, hold up your head so.—And must I always do so, captain ? asked the re¬cruit. Yes, always, answered the officer. The*, 19fare y^u well, my dear little fellow, rejoinedPaddy, for I shall never see you more.A countryman seeing a lady in the street ina very odd dress, as he thought, begged of herto tell him what she called it. dhe lady, a lit¬tle surprised at the question, called him an im¬pertinent fellow. Nay, 1 hope no offence, ma¬dam, said Hodge, I am a poor countryman, justgoing out of town, and my v ife always expectsI should bring her an account of the newest fash¬ion, which occasioned my inquiring what youcall this that you wear.—It is a sack said she, ina great pet. 1 have heard, said the countryman,of a pig in a poke, but I never before saw a sowin a sack.A soldier being to be sent on the late Spanishexpedition, said to the officer directing the draft',Sir, I cannot go because I—I—stut-ter.—Siu'-ter ! says the officer, you don’t go to talk but tofight.—Ay, but they’ll p-p-put me on g-g-guard,and a man may go ha-ha-half a mile, before Ican say, wh-who-who goes there ? Oh, that’sno objection, for there will be another sentryplaced along with you, and he can challenge ifyou can fire.—Well, b-b-but I may be taken, nndrun through the g-g-guts, before 1 can cry qu-qu-quarter.An Irishman, telling his friend, that passingalong the street, he saw a person on the otherside, with whom he thought he was acquainted,said, l crossed to see him, l thought l knew him,and he thought he knew me; but by Jasus, myhoney, it was neither one ncr t’other of us.20A preacher in Arabia having for his text aportion of the Koran, I h ive cilied Noah, aftertwice repeating his tex1, made a long pause: anArab then pivssnt, thinking that he was waitingfor an answer, exclaimed, If Noah will not come,what hinders you from calling somebody else.Two Oxford scholars meeting on the road witha Yorkshire ostler, they fell to bantering him,and told the fellow that they would prove himto be a horse or an ass. Well, »aid the osrler,end I can prove your saddle to be a mule; Amule! cried ©ne of them, how can that be ? Because, said the ostler, it is something betweena horse and an ass.A culprit aiked lark Ketch if he had any com¬mands to the other world. Why, said Jack, notmany; I’ll only, added he, as he adjusted theknot under his left ear, just trouble you with aline.A parson in the country, taking his text in St.Matthew, chap. viii. verse Id And Peter’swife’s mother lay sick of a fever, preached forthree Sundays together on the same subject.—Soon after two fellows gomg across the church¬yard, and hearing the bell toll, one asked theother who it was for? Nay, I can’t tell; per¬haps, replied he, It is for Peter’s wife’s mother,for she has been sick of a fever these three weeks.A gentleman lying on his death-bed, called tohis coachman, who had been an old servant, andsaid, Ah, I'cm, I am going a long and rugged21journey, words th»H ever you drove me. Oh!dear Sir, replied the fellotv, ne’er let that disturbyou, for it’s all down hill.Two gentlemen, one named Woodcock, andthe other Fuller, walking together, happened tosee an owl; says the last. That bird is very likea Woodcock You’re very wrong, says the first,for it’s Fuller in the head, Fuller in the eyes, andFuller all ever.At a late execution in the old Bailey, the hang,man was blamed for hurrying them.—Och, beaisy 1—says an Irishman, it is mere humanity, forwere they to stand long in the cold they wouldcatch their deaths.An Irish servant being struck by his master,cried out, Devil i»ke me, if I am certain whe¬ther he h«is kiik-d me or not, but if I am dead itwill afford me gTeat satisfaction to hear the oldrogue was hanged for Killing me.One Irishman rnpefng another, asked whatwas become of their oi l acquaintance PatrickMurphy r Airafc, my dear honey, answered theother, poor pad ty was condemned to be hanged*but he saved his life by dying in prison.An Irishman being a?ked which was oldest, heor liis biother, I am o’.dtsf, said he; but if mybrother lives three years long- r we shad be bothof oue age.A person asked ku Irishman why he wok hi»2fStocking* the ^ ong side outwards ? Becau*e,laid he, there is'a hole on the other side.An Irishman in the late General Washington’*army, being separated from his companions, wasmet by fire Hessian soldiers, Pat seeing his dan¬ger, ordered them to surrender.— They, suspect¬ing him to be backed by numbers, immediatelyobeyed. Pat shouldered their arms and marchedthem to the General s cent, when being askedhow a single man durst encounter five. O byJasus, my General, I surrounded them ! Wash¬ington, who was seldom seen to smile, laughedheartily, and promoted him to a halbert.As an Irish Officer, who was severely woundedat the battle of Waterloo, lay on the ground, aforeign soldier, who was near him, also wound¬ed, made a terrible howling ; when the officerexclaimed, D—n you sir, what do you make sucha noise for, do you think there’s nobody killedbut yourself!Once, at a meeting of ministers, a question ofmoment was started to be debated among them.Upon the first proposal of it, a confident youngman shot his bolt presently. He said, Truly Ihold it so. h- grave minister answered, Youhold, sir, it becomes you to hold your peace.A minister asking a lady in the neighbourhoodof Norwich, whether she knew any thing ofChrist.'1 was answered, Yes, sir, I rememberthat l once saw his picture.Lady Huntington once aiking a person if sk«25kn«w who it wa* that redeemed her, received> for answer, Yes, madam, I know very well wholit was that redeemed mej it was Pontius Pilat#.A gentleman who had engaged an Irish foot-i man in his service, on telling him that morningj and evening prayers were observed in the family,i he hoped that would not be any objection to him,■ he replied, no, sir, but I hope you will consider; it in my wages.An English gentleman observed to Monsieuri de Veine, at Boulogne, that there appeared no-: thing like religion among the French people, hei replied, nothing at all. We have no religioni amongst us now, but the Convention aie aboutto make one ; then we shall do very well.Dr. Gil! once pleaching on human inability,l a gentleman present was much offended, andI took him to task for degrading human nature —The doctor said, pray, sir, whit do you thinki men can contribute to their own conversioa ?! He began to enumerate a variety of particulars.rl he doctor said, and have you done all this } Why, no, l can’t say that 1 have yet, but I hopeI shall begin soon. If you have had these thingsin your power, and have not done them, you de¬serve to be doubly damned.Mr. Lawrence, who was a sufferer for non¬conformity, if he would have consulted with fleshand blood, had eleven arguments against it, viz.a wife and ten children. Being once asked howhe meant to maintain them all, he cheerfully re-2-iplied, they must all live on the sixth of Matthevr*—Take no thought lor to-morrow.Lady Wallace, celebrated in Scotland for her•wit and beauty, happening to be at an assemblyin Edinburgh, a young gentleman, the son of hisMajesty’s printer, who had the patent for pub¬lishing Bibles, made his appearance, dressed ingreen and gold. Being a new face, and extremelyelegant, he attracted the attention of the wholecompany. A general murmur prevailed in theroom, to know what he was ? Lady W in¬stantly made answer, loud enough to be heard.Oh, don’t you kuow him ? It is young Bible,bound in calf, and gilt, but not lettered!An Irishman, one day was walking on thestreets of Belfast, found a light Guinea, and got18s. for it; next day he was travelling and seesanother, and says, Alielieu dear honey, I’ll havenothing to do with you, for I lost 3s. by yourbrother yesterday.One of the late town’s officers of Ayr, wa sstruck severely by accident on the hea.i by hiswife—after the fray was adjusted, the wife saidto her husband, H had I killed you, and Ibeen hanged lor it, would you marry KateM‘Lachlan.FINIS.