»CHEAP TBACTS NO. 4.AMUSINGStories of Animals;BEING INSTANCES OF THEnstiiicts, Manners, § Propensities,OF SOME OFThe Brute Creation.Slorles of Animals*Hunting the Ostrich.Besides the value of their plumage, some othe savage nations of Africa hunt them also fo<their flesh, which they consider as a dainty. Athe spoils of the ostrich are thus valuable, it is ncjto be wondered at that man has beceme their mosassiduous pursuer. For this purpose the Arabiantrain up their best and fleetest horses, and hurthe ostrich still in view. Perhaps of all other varieties of the chase, this, though the most laborious, is yet the most entertaining. As soon athe hunter comes within sight of his prey, he puton his horse with a gentle gallop, so as to keethe ostrich still in sight; yet not so as to terrif hhim from the plain into the mountains. In th:situation he somewhat resembles a man at faspeed ; his wings, like two arms, keep workiuiwith a motion correspondent to that of his legsiand his speed would very soon snatch him frorthe view' of his pursuers; but, unfortunately fcthe silly creature, instead of g'oing off in a dimjline, he takes his course in circles; while the hurters still make a small course within, relieve eac3other, meet him at unexpected turns, and keephim thus still employed, and followed for two orthree days together. At last, spent with fatigueand famine, and finding all power of escape im¬possible, he endeavours to hide himself from thoseenemies he cannot avoid, and covers his head inthe sand, or the first thicket he meets.There are others who, more compassionate •or more provident, do not kill their captive, butendeavour to tame it, for the purposes of sup¬plying those feathers which are in so great re¬quest. The inhabitants of Dara and Lybiabreed up whole flocks of them, and they aretamed with very little trouble. But it is notfor their feathers alone that they are prized in] this domestic state ; they are often ridden upon,and used as horses. Moore assures us, that atJoar he saw a man travelling upon an ostrich ;and A 'amson asserts, that at the factory of Po-> dore he had two ostriches, which were then young,li the strongest of which ran swifter than the bestL English racer, although he carried two negroesi on his back.Mad Bull.A scene at once singular and appalling, oc¬curred in this town on Monday week. Attwo o’clock, or a little after it, a beautiful Bullol the Galloway breed, remarkable alike forstrength and symmetry, was driven into town4from the Annamlale side, fettered with ropes asis usual and necessary, though not so complete¬ly as it ought to have been. One rope connec¬ted the two fore legs, and a second, thoughsmaller one, crossed and recrossed the head andneck, leaving the driver a very ample latitude ofrein. When nearly opposite to Mr Beck’scoach-work, he became uneasy, from the passers-by, and other works, paused and looked roundat his motley followers, tossed his noble head inangry defiance, and more than once attemptedto work his Majesty’s lieges some deadly skaith.With great difficulty, ho was piloted past theKing’s Arms, and when he got into the High-,street, he made a dead halt, and seemed to re¬gard the area, from its great width, as an excel¬lent station for showing fight. The driverstood at a respectful distance, adapting his po¬sition to the motion of the bull, and so as to be jout of harm’s-way ; and though curs yelped,and boys hallooed, and even men threw theirbonnets at his head, he scorned all such pettyannoyances and still kept his station on thecrown of the causeway. The door of everyshop was beseiged with spectators ; the sash ofevery window thrown up ; behind, before, and :*round-about, men, women, and children rushed 1as near as they durst to the scene of action ; !and the crowd, in a word, like asnaw-ball, rol-ed 1during a moderate thaw, soon increased to a :prodigious size. W bile all this was going for- 'ward, the bull by pawing' actually acted the part 1of a pavior, and trotted sadly under bis manacles j:s“many a time and oft” he tried to get rid ofthe ugly cords, and after repeated failures, hebellowed and tossed his lordly head, and said asplain as a brute can speak, “ only make me asfree as nature formed me, and I will instantlycharge and put to the rout the universal peopleof Dumfries.” And to confess the truth, hehad well nigh made his threats good. An un¬thinking cur which crossed before him wascharged and almost annihilated in a moment,and a second charge was made on a heavilyI laden carrier’s cart, or rather on two meni stationed behind it. The concussion was fearful;! the cart was but as a feather on the animal’si neck, and the haste with which the men scam-ij pered away illustrated more strongly than anyi thing we ever witnessed before, the mettle whichI fear puts into people’s heels. Different ladies1 wrere confined in shops, and kept in a state of!!| great trepidation, and some of them, we under-1 stand, were fain to scramble out by back win¬dows, and thread the mazes of lanes and closses,such as persons of quality do not often visit.At times the bull, though still partly kept incheck, indicated a wish to peep into the shops ;but the merchants and their friends seemed toregard him as rather an ugly customer, and asoften as he veered to this side or that, they9 retired simultaneously into the interior, closingthe folding doors behind them. In a place ofbusiness immediately opposite to our office, weobserved two functionaries stationed, but so farfrom preserving the peace of the burgh, the)'6had enough ado to protect their own persons,and we could not help smiling at the dilemmathose whose duty it is to send others to jail, andwho were, no doubt, for the first time kept indurance vile themselves. After the lapse ofnearly an hour, the animal strode slowly andmajestically away, though still frowning defianceon his followers. Partly by the cords, and partlybv the crowd, his head was turned down Bank’s!street, the passage to which was immediatelyclosed bv several hundreds of our wonderingtownsmen. When the animal wheeled the peo¬ple wheeled too, and although the enemy wasout of sight, it was easy to guess what waspassing from the ebbing or flowing of the humanwaves that rushed into or out of Bank-street.Near the wood-yards a man got in the way o(the furious animal, which immediately bellovvecand plunged forward ; and had not the pursuerescaped by jinking, it is more than probable thadeath would have ensued. At the same spot sdog a perfect hero of its race, made a suddeileap, and seized the hull firmly by the nosewhich, after standing for an instant aghastshook his head with such violence that the as<sailant was instantly tossed on high, and whirledor spun like a top in the air. When it fell t<the ground, every body thought the animal waikilled; but so far from this, the ck)g immediately resumed its position, indenting its teeth monjfirmly than ever, and baffling every effort mailto displace him. This incident maddened tbbull to perfect fury ; the cords attached to hi<f7head and neck, were immediately torn from thehands that held them, and with one wild anddesperate spring he plunged breast-deep into therolling river, and attempted to gain the oppositeside, tossing his head all the while, and makingthe dog dangle on the surface of the water likea bladder or buoy placed in an eddy. But thecords round his legs completely paralyzed hisswimming powers, and in a minute or two hesank and was drowned. At this moment a boatwas seen rapidly approaching, but before it ar¬rived, the butchers, by wading almost to theneck, got hold of the cords, drew the body tothe side, and conveyed it to Maxwelltown to beblooded and cut up for the use of those whohave stomachs so well supplied with the gastricjuice that they are able to digest bull-beef.Bull Fight.This great national amusement commenced atLisbon last month, and the Amphitheatre wasfully attended.The first bull afforded little sport ; but thesecond, as soon as the door was opened, rushedin with the utmost fury, pursued the firstcapinha that attracted his notice, and missedhim only by a hair’s breadth. A picador onhorseback then rode up to him, struck a barbedspear into his neck, broke the shaft and rode off—the bull iu the utmost fury pursued him,£caught the horse with his horns under the flank,and nearly brought him and his rider to theground. The horse seemed not at all fond ofthe spost, and kept his distance for some lime,til! at last the picador, watching the opportunity,struck a second and third and fourth arrow in¬to his neck. The bull again pursued him, butwas attracted by flags and scarfs ; he ventedhis fury on them for some time, and pawed theground with rage. When well exhausted bysimilar attacks, aud chasing the horse round thearena, one of the men at arms tnrnedout to the middle of the arena to catch him bythe horns. This is an attempt of great danger,for if the forcador misses his aim the bull is cer- itain to overturn him—-as was the case in thisinstance. The forcader stood with open armsdaring him to the contest, and he was not longin accepting the challenge. They rushed atone another, and the bull, by raisiiig his headhigher than the other had expected, struck hisantagonist oh the head, and he fell apparentlylifeless on the arena. Others provoked himanew, and occupied his attention till the wounded 1foceador was carried off by his comrades. Proudof fin’s exploit, the infuriated animal chasedthat* about in all directions. Darts wereshowered into his neck, flags were cast beforehim ; he pawed the ground; the dust rose involumes around the animal; and every nerveand muscle seemed suffering with agony. Whenallowed a moment’s respite, he took up his po¬sition in the middle of the arena, beating his sides rwith his long bushy tail, alternately inhaling theair in large draughts, and expelling it with dis¬tended nostrils and a loud noise from his heavingchest. At one time he would spread out hisfore-feet, nearly touching the ground with hisbreast {somewhat like a cat or dog stretchingitself)—at another he would raise his head andshoulders, repressing his hinder extremities, andseemed to try every position to obtain relief.His tormentor again renewed the attack, andcontinued to harass him till he was sufficientlyexhausted, when the forcadors collected around,ell upon him in a body, and led him from theground.To the credit of the Lisbon women, very fewwere present. There were a few ladies, orrather women in the dress of ladies, in the boxes;a great number of English officers, and indeed,if one might judge from dress, a great numberof the most respectable inhabitants of Lisbon., The fights lasted about two hours, and duringI that time ten bulls were tortured or killed, so(that each fight continued for twelve minutes.iThe box tickets are about 5s. Those of thenaileries in the shade, 2s. 6d., and in the sunme shilling and three halfpence.Swimming Bullocks.i!A novel circumstance lately occurred in theincattle market of Dumfries. About a score of•ilstrong highland bullocks, better used to nature’s10carpet of herbage or heath, than the pavior’sone, of hard uneven stones, and quite ignorantof the navigation of the Nith, descended the stepsat bridge street, and entered the water nearlyopposite to Mr R ’s shop door. In placeof wading to cool their cloots, they were overhead and ears in a moment, and plunged andspluttered and spluttered and plunged with theirheads pointed up the stream. Some of themafter a terrible tug got out, not far from theplace where they entered, but the greater partwere hurried by the flood to the edge of theCaul, and ©ne of them after going right throughthe Gullet door plunged into the powerful eddybelow, amidst sheets of spray, fitted to choke anelephant in place of a bullock. The remainderstuck for a moment on the top of the dam-head,and vigorously contended against their fate ; butit would not do; comparing small things withgreat, the stream at this point was nearly as re¬sistless as the falls of Niagara; and over, thewhole in succession went, performing more thanone sommerset before they gathered their fourfeet and got into rather smoother water. Eventhen only snouts and horns were seen, and thenovelty of the sight was, if possible, heightenedby the swimming prowess of a harmless pig,which had some how or other got afloat too,and which the spectators cheered on its waterycourse by repeatedly exclaiming “ weel done weething—baud on, and you’ll beat them a’.”Some got out below the mills, some at Assemb¬ly-street, and some so far down as the horse-11i pool; and strange as it may appear, not a clootwas cnt, nor a bone broken. But highland;cattle have much practice in swimming, whilei being floated from one island to another, and wesuspect few Galloways would have escaped‘ drowning if placed in precisely the samecircumstances.Hare Hunt jn Edinburgh.On Saturday, a scene of rather a novel characterwas witnessed in the West end of the NewrTown, which amply demonstrates the lamenta¬ble proneness of most people to follow a multi¬tude in doing evil. A harmless rabbit, domi-ilciled in some of the back courts in Glenfinlasistreet, had just stepped out from her burrow tol " to take a peep at the magnificent octagons, cir-i cusses, and crescents, now being erected inLord Moray’s parks—expecting, it may bejBupposed, nothing else but civil treatment in sorefined a neighbourhood. Hard by, however,f* jivere a number of masons at work, one of whom,on seeing puss, unthinkingly bawled out, “Hal-i oo ?” and, clapping his hands—ran ! “ Whats’t?” cried the hewers of stone, and brandish¬ing their mallets—ran ! “ What is’t ? criedhe neighbouring builder, and, flourishing theirrowels—ran ! “ What is’t cried the astonishedoiners, and, shouldering their hatchets—ran !r Teil tarn !’’ exclaimed Donald the caddie, and12Donald and the caddies—ran !—“ Losh pre¬serve us !” exclaimed Tibby, and all the Tibbiescame out and—ran? In short, the flying-cavalcade continued to increase, until, dogs in¬cluded, the aggregate hunters amounted to atleast a thousand souls. The unfortunate rabbitwas, of course, doomed to destruction, and suf¬fered bestial execution in Queen-street gardens,at the hands of several merciless dogs. Nowhad the object of pursuit been a witch on a broom¬stick, or Michael Scott on a horned stirk, weshould not in that case have ridiculed curiosity,or blamed a laudable zeal in the chase,but to seea whole host of Modern Athenians persecutingto the death, and glorying in the martyrdom of apoor rabbit, says little indeed for the boastedanti-barbarous feelings of the age.Dog pursued by a Hare.On a Sunday while two men, apparently of thetrue poaching character, were traversing thefields in the neighbourhood with a pointer dog,and amusing themselves with hunting corncreacs, in place of attending the church, thedeg in one of his perambulations happened tostart a hare in a field on the farm of Nithsdale,known in that place by the name of the witch.Fuss, in place of standing off, as is usual withher kind, boldly faced her foe. I he dog notbeing accustomed to this way of proceeding, made15a dead pause, uncertain whether to advance orHee. Puss sprung towards him, when strangeto tell, the dog actually wheeled round andscampered off to his masters as fast as possible,pursued by her ladyship in a menacing attitudefor upwards of 150 yards. It is believed thatthe hare having young was actuated to thisboldness by the affection she bore for heroffspring.Tiger and Aligator Fight.Si By a part of the Sunderbunds, called Athara| Baki, of very thick jungle, but through whichj a creek runs, a boat was passing lately, whentf the crew observed a large tiger come to theK water’s edge to drink ; an aligator on the banki seized hold of him, but the tiger resisted, and a<i contest ensued which lasted for two hours, eachj seizing and grapling with the other, and the: tiger alarming the whole forest with his roar,i At last the aligator succeeded in dragging thetiger into the water, which then became alarmed,./land letting go his hold of the aligator, the latterjseemed glad to be released, and the tigersmade off.Eccentric Gander.Ifhe following story, the truth of which we canouch for, is not only curious in itself, butvinces pretty forcibly that whimsicality andi14eccentricity are not confined to the human species.Mr W of Allanton, has a very largegandee, which was hatched five or six years ago,and which had scarcely attained the months ofmajority, when he contracted a dislike t© hisown species. Whether tins arose from disap¬pointed love, or a disposition naturally goose-anthropical, might puzzle the deepest naturalist .to determine; but certain it is that he feels solittle pleasure in the society of the fair who havefeathers on their backs, that the race wouldspeedly become extinct, were all ganders as un¬gallant as himself. In 1823, there were twopretty bay celts grazing in a field adjoining to jAllanton, and to these he in time attached hiin-self so cordially, that he became their companionnight and day. From this or some other cir¬cumstance, he retains a strong partiality to baysor browns, and will not associate with a blackhorse. The colts alluded to were succeeded byothers; and the gander, though he seemedsensible of, and sorry for, the change," speedilyingratiated himself with his new friends. Thesehe attends in the paddock during the day, fol¬lows them home at night when the weather iscold, and if accidentally shut out of the stable,patiently bivouacks behind the door, and is al¬ways ready to clap his wings and go a-fieldearly in the morning. When in the park, hissole occupation seems to be to stand near thehead of one of the colts, carefully watching all its.motions, and accommodating his position to thatof his frie»d, by waddling when he walks, and115jy'ing when he runs. Young liorses, when dis-i irbed, very easily break into a gallop, and as!te gander manages to keep so near the colt,llat he may be seen flying vigorously alongsidei f’ him, it is certainly strange that it never oc-, trred to him to take a ride. If the mouth ofe other, while collecting provender, shouldjane too near his feet, he stretches forth hissck, elevates his wings, hisses gently, and byher motions admonishes him to keep at aoper distance. Though geese graze as well1 kine, the bird in question is rarely seen nib-ing a pile of grass, and his chief dependance,2 believe, is placed on the stray pickles of corn: caters in the stable. On one occasion, thei:ung horses at Allanton were removed to aid at some distance, and then the poor ganderd to dree a very dreary period of widowhood,i he could have spoken or sung, his ditty wouldsive been, ‘ i wander dowie a’ my lane hutmen the colts returned—that is, the bay ones■he was seen hurrying to meet them, half run-- j|g, half flying, and cackling forth his congratu-juous to the very topmost note of the gammutusjoy. In April last, we happened to be atJilanton, and as a matter of course visited thesose of whose eccentric habits we had heard soJr4ch. A new scene then presented itself. In11 course of the day, a score or two of capitalI hland bullocks had been let into the held, andi|>se the gander seemed to look on with a verypjndiced eye. By mere accident one of themtoo near the favourite colt—an in-*110trusion which was resented by a fierce and ratherlaughable onset. The bill of the bird was dartedat the hard head of the enemy, and the latter,though furnished with a notable pair of horns,started back as quickly as if an adder had stunghim. Again, however, he advanced to thecharge, was again assaulted and again retreated ;until his brethren, perceiving what was goingforward, joined in the melee, and very nearly!hemmed the gander in. Our first impressionlwas that tho biped would be tossed and gored ytill not a pinion stuck together ; but in this wwere mistaken. Each of the bullocks was assailed in turn, to its no small amazement, if nodismay, but the assailant, maugre his greatcourage, appeared to be placed in a sad quandaryand did all he could to rescue the colt from suchunsuitable company, by biting his heels and nib¬bling at his head. The docile animal at lengthgood naturedly yielded to his wishes, and ththorned beligerents, on their part, ratified the ar¬mistice by offering no farther molestation.Bee-hive in a Church.Some years ago a swarm of bees which had escaped from the parent hive, were observed clusitering about Heddam Church; and befor*measures could be taken to secure them, thedisappeared. Their queen, it seems, had beepioneering to find a suitable place of locatior17i and having discovered a small crevice in the roof,i she immediately forced her way into the interior.IThere sh« found “ room and verge enough,'’land thinking the place suitable in every respect,iilshe warned her winged subjects to advance, andipitch their waxen tents betwixt the roof and theii deling. This summons was at once obeyed bythe loyalist insects, and for many a week, month,and year, they and their successors, down, per¬haps, to the ninth or tenth generation, maintained[ undisturbed possession of what may be called thejjgaret of the church of Hoddam. In spring andHummer, the cheerful hum of their ceaseless in-idustry was heard mingling with the voice ofjjpsalms, and many remarks were made on theiragacity, in reviving, as it were, the days ofudalism, when vanquished clansmen found thef church a sanctuary in every sense of the word,itnd in periods of danger assembled their kindredivithin its pale, as the only means of escaping|rom the cruel and fiery death that awaited them,ifiven the children respected what they termed(he “ kirk bees,” and so far from killing ori hasing them from flowers, not unfrequentlyeed them to a meal, by gathering the wildingat a distance, and leaving it in situations[ here it was sure to be punctured to good pur-ose before its fragrance had died away. Thusoerished, and protected, the bees literally livedelover, and were total strangers to that pover-M which is said to be characteristic of churchce. Their wealth increased every year, and■though the minister might have justly claimed18a tithe of the whole, he was more disposed t»give than take, and vrould at any time have furnished a few pounds of sugar had there beeiany occasion for such extravagance. But hiexample, though lauded and approved of bmany, was not, unfortunately, followed by alla»d we regret to add, that very lately sommiscreants audaciously broke through the ro<of the church, surprised the bees while in a statof inactivity, and completely harried them oicf house and hall. Conduct so shameful h«excited in the parish a general feeling of indigntiou, and the Minister, together with sonof the principal heritors, has offered a veihandsome reward to any person who will disclo 'the names of the contemptabls depredator ithat they may be punished according to th*deserts.Mousing Rat.On the farm of Lyon thorn, near Falkirk, th«is a remarkable instance, not only of docili ibut usefulness, in a rat. It first devoured *mice caught in traps, and was afterwards sdto catch them as they ventured from their ho! ‘till at length the whole house was cleared Mthese vermin, except, as is believed, a single cpIt has frequently been seen in pursuit ofsofitary mouse, and the little fugitive, wtakes refuge behind the ingle, has a part o19Ifur singed off. From the service it renders, thefamily kindly protect the rat, and it runs aboutand gambols among them on the floor withoutthe least uneasiness. It sometimes disappearsfor a week or ten days, and it is supposed that,in these intervals, it visits the stack-yard in itsprofessional capacity.Sheep.A shepherd in Blockhouse bought a few sheepfrom another in Crawmel, about ten miles dis¬tant. In the spring following one of the eweswent back to her native place, and yeaned on awild hill called Crawmel Craig. On a certainday, about the beginning of July following, theshepherd went and brought home his ewe andlamb—took the fleece from his ewe, and keptthe lamb for one of his stock. The lamb livedand throve, became a hog and gimmer, andnever offered to leave home ; but when threeyears of age, and about to have her first lamb,she vanished ; and the morning after, the Craw¬mel shepherd, in going his rounds, found herwith a new-yeaned lamb on the very gair of theCrawmel Craig, where she was lambed herself,and then she came on with her’s of her own ac¬cord ; and this custom she continued annuallyiwith the greatest punctuality as long as shelived. At length her lambs, when they cameof age, began the same practice, and the shepherdwas obliged to dispose of the whole breed.COBut with reg-anl to their natural affeetion, theinstances that roig-ht be mentioned are withoutnumber, stupid and actionless creatures as theyiw'n. When one loses its sight in a flock olshort sheep, it is rarely abandoned to itself inthat hapless and helpless state. Some one al¬ways attaches to it, and by bleating calls it backfrom the precipice, the lake, the pool, and alldangers whatever. There is a disease amongsheep, called by shepherds the Breakslmgh, fsort of deadly dysentry, which is as infectiousns fire in a flock. Whenever a sheep feels it Iself seized by this, it instantly absents itself fron jall the rest, shunning their society with th<jgreatest care; it even hides itself, and is ofteivery hard to be found. Though this propensi'ty can hardly be attributed to natural instinct, i ,is, at all events, a provision of nature of thgreatest kindness and beneficence.rThe Tiger.Though this animal is sometimes found to ftfrom the approach of man, it is at other tiirufound equally ready to attack the human specieas appears from the account of the loss of jVMunro, son of Sir Hector Munro, hart. who;|shocking death carries a melancholy interejalong with it, which will cause it long to he rijmembered. This fatal occurrence happened hBengal, in the East Indies, in the year 179'!21ind the account, as given by an eye-witness, iss follows: “ We went (says the narrator) onbore on Sangar Island, to shoot deer, of whiche saw innumerable tracks, as well as of tigers :e continued our diversion till nearly three'clock; when, sitting down by the side of aimgle to refresh ourselves, a roar like thunder,as heard, and an immense tiger seized our un-irtunate friend, poor Munro, and rushed again;to the jungle, dragging him through theflicikest bushes and trees, every thing givingI to its monstrous strength ; a tigress accon>ed his progress. The united agonies ofor, regret, and fear, rushed at once upon us.ed on the tiger ; he seemed agitated. Mypanion fired also ; and in a fewr |moments• this, our unfortunate fri nd came up to us,led in blood. Every medical assistance wasi ; and he expired in the space of twenty-■ hours, having received such deep woundsn the teeth and claws of the animal, as ren-id his recovery hopeless. A large fire, con¬ing of ten or twelve whole trees, was blazingr us at the time this accident took place, andor more of the natives were with us. Thet nan mind can scarcely form any idea of this>11* of horror. We had but just pushed ourfrom this hateful shore, when the tigressle her appearance, almost raging mad, andained on the sand all the while we continuedight.”In the beginning of the last century, a corn-seated under the shade of some trees near22the banks of a river in Bengal, were happifpreserved from a similar misfortune by the amost unexampled presence of mind of a younlady, who chanced to be of the party : upon thhist appearance of the tiger preparing for i.fatal spring, this young lady unfurled a laroumbrella in the animars face, which, beinconfounded by so extraordinary and sudden aappearance, distantly retired, and thus gave the aan opportunity of escaping from its terrible attacllT/ie Elephant.The foremost, and in every respect, the noble!quadruped in nature, is the Elephant; not lejremarkable for its size, than its docility and uderstanding. In India, where they were at otime employed in launching ships, a particulelephant was directed to force a very large vesinto the water ; the work proved superior tostrength, but not to its endeavours ; whiclhowever, the keeper affected to despise. “ Taaway,” says he, that lazy beast, and brianother better fitted for service.” The panimal instantly upon this redoubled its eftbrfractured its scull, and died upon the spot.In Delhi, an elephant, passing along tstreets, put his trunk into a tailor’s shop, whetfseveral people were at work. One of the psons of the shop, desirous of some] amusemei*pricked the animal’s trunk with his needle,0#seemed highly delighted with this slight punish¬ment. The elephant, however, passed on with¬out any immediate signs of resentment; but,coming to a puddle filled with dirty water, hefilled his trunk, returned to the shop, and spur¬ted the contents over all the finery upon whichthe tailors were then employed.An elephant in Adsmfeer, which often passedthrough the bazar or market, as he went by a| certain herb-woman, always received from hera mouthful of greens. Being one day seizedili, with a sudden fit of madness, he broke his fet-Iters, and, running through the market, put thecrowd to flight ; and among others, this woman,pi who, in her haste, forgot a little child at her1 stall. The elephant, recollecting the spot' where his benefactress was accustomed to sit,j took up the infant gently in his trunk, and eon-veyed it to a place of safety.At the Cape of Good Hope it is customaryto hunt those animals for the sake of their teeth.Three horsemen, well mounted, and armed withnces, attack the elephant alternately, eachelieving the other, as they see their companionressed, till the beast is subdued. Threeutchmen, brothers, who had made large for-nes by this business, determined to retire tourope, and enjoy the fruits of their labours ;ut they resolved, one day before they went, totive a last chase, by way of amusement: theyet with their game, and began their attack inusual manner ; but unfortunately, one ofeir horses falling, happened to fiing his rider :e24the enraged elephant insantly seized the unhappyhuntsman with his trunk, flung him up to a vastheight in the air, and received him on one of histusks as he fell ; and then turning towards the o- jther two brothers, as if it were with an aspect ofrevenge and insult, held out to them the impaled fwretch, writhing in the agonies of death.The elephant frequently takes such an affection Ito its keeper, that it will obey no other ; and it has Ibeen known to die for grief, when, in’some suddenfit of madness, it has killed its conductor. We aretold, that one of these, that was used by theFrench forces in India, for the 'dragging of can¬non, was promised by the conductor, a reward,!for having performed some painful service : butbeing disappointed of its expectations, it slewhim in a fury. The conductor’s wife, who wasa spectator of this shocking scene, could not re¬strain her madness and despair; but running,with her two children in her arms, threw themat the elephant’s feet, crying out, that since it hadkilled her husband, it might kill her and herchildren also. The elephant, seeing the children,at his feet, instantly stopped, and moderating itsfury, took up the eldest with its trunk, and.placing him upon its neck, adopted him for its,conductor, and obeyed him ever after with greatpunctuality.F I N I S.