Proud Dutchefs,OR,>eath and the Lady.To which is added,he Wounded Huffar,THECold Winter Night,ANDAlice Crowdie.Ikirk;—Pr rtcd by T. 'Johnsr*"^% *C 3 )DEATH AND THE LADY.DEATH.i* air Lady lay your coltly robes afide 'No longer may you glory in your pride,7,aU leave of all your carnal vain delV!,iI m come to fummon you away this n4CLALY. ‘&-Wfeat bold attempt is this? Pray let me \cJrom whence you come, & whither mull ibhall I who am a Lady, yield or bow ‘i o fuch a pale-fac’d vilage l Who art thddeath.Do you not kno, me? Well I’ll tell yo-MhJ 18 1 conquer all the Ions of men ;fro pitch-of honour from my dart is Lee •Jly name is Death, have you not heard of roLADY.Ye», I have heard of you, time after time,rfut beifig m the glory of my prime,I did not think thou wouldll have call’d fofooWhy mull my morning-fun go down at noonDEA i H.Talk not of noon, you may as well be mut.-1 his is no time at ail fordo difpuie; -Your riches jewels, gold and garments bra;Y juthou.es, lands, they muft new mailers havtfly vam heart to riches was inclin’d,V a thou, alas! raptt leave it ali behind.C 5 )LADY.-O heavy news! muO I no longer flay ?How (hall I face my Jodge at the Great Day!Do' -n from her es es her dying tears did flow,Arid faid, There’s none knows what I undergo jU pon a bed of forrow here I lie.Mv carnal life makes me afraid to die.My fins, alas! are many, grofs, and foul;O! mav I now find mercy to my foul:And tho’ I do dffferve the Almighty’s frown,May he forgive, and pour his bleflings do vn.Then with a dying figh her heart did b’eak.And did the pleaiures of this W’orld forfake.Here may you fee the high and mighty fall,For death he fheweth no refptft at all,To'any one of high and low degree.Great men fubmit to Death, as well as we,Tho’ the-, are gav, their life is but a fpan,A lum o! c av, fo poor a creature's man.✓ 1 lTHEWOUNDED HUSSAR.Alokg the banks of the dark rolling Danube,Fair Adetaid walk’d when the battle was o’erO where haft thou wander’d my deareft lover"Wheredoft thou w e.lter and bleed on theflioreThe voice v. hich I hear, is it Henry that figh’d,All mournful fhe haften:d)nor\vander’tifhe far,*•* A-»( 6 )When bleeding and lew on the hefithfhe efpied,By the light of the moon, her poor woundedHu (Tar.From his warm bofom the blood was dreaming,Pale was his vifage, deep-mark’d with a fcarlDim was that eye, once expreflively beaming,That melted in love, and that kindled in w ar!0 fmote was poor Adelaid’s heart at the light 1Ho \v bitter j|ie wept o’er the vnSim of war !Had thou e^kne, my fond love, this fonowfulnight,To cheer the lone heart of your wounded. Huffar.1 hope thou'(halt live, kind mercy relieving,She faid; while,alas! file mod forely did mourn.Ah! no, the lad pang in my bofom is heaving!No light of the morn fliall t. Henry return.Thou charmer of life, ever tender and true!Ye babes of my h.ve that await me afar!His falt’ring tongue fcarcely murmur’d Adieu!Till lie funk in her arms, her poor woundedHuffar!THECOLD WINTER NIGHT.O now the cold Winter comes on,and Fortune runs hard by my fide,For to work at my trade I’ve got none,and the bed of my friend* l have try’d.I 3 JLADY.lean is cold, I tremble at the news;;’s bags of gold, if thou wilt me'ftcufe,. leiz^ on thofe. thus finiQi thou the (Irife,th fuch who are now weary of their life.“ there not many bound in prifon ftrong,aitter grief of foul have languifh’d long,d fain would find a grave, a place of reitjroL all their griefs in which they are oppred ;lefides, there’s many with their hoary head,i.ndpalfey’d joints by which their joys are fled,; -rleafe thou them, whofe forrows are fo great,[vnd fpare my life to have a longer date.DEA i H.rho’ they with age are full of grief and pain*/et their appointed time they muft remainscome to none before ray warrant’s feal’d,Ind when it is, they muft fubmit and yield;. take no bribe, believe me. this is true,’repare yourl’elf to go, I come for you.LADY.Death le not fo fevere, let me obtainA little longer time to live and reign;Earn would I ftay if thou my life would fpare)I have a daughter beautiful and fair,I'd live to fee her wed whom I adore,Grant mi but this, and then I’ll aQcno more.DEATH.This is a {lender, frivolous excufe,I have you fall, and will not let you loofejLeave her to Providence, for you muft goAlong wilh me, whether you will or no.( 4 )1 Death do command Kings to leave the- crowns,And at mv feel to lay their fceptre- dov.f f not to King* I will this faypui give,Hat cut them down, Do you expert to liveBeyond the limits of y air tim* and fpace?No. 1 mud fend vou t •another place.LADY.Yen learned Dottor*, no < difplay your fk.'And let not Death of me obtain his v ill ;Prepare me cordials, let me comfort find,% lhall fl' like chaff before the windDEATH.Forbear to call, their fkill will never do,M hey are but mortals here as well a. you;I give the fatal wound, my dart is fure,N is far beyond the Do&or’s fkill to cure.T b purchafe life, rather than yield to die,How freely would you let your filver fly;init while you flourifh’d here all in your ftoiou could not fpare one penny for the poor.Jn all your pomp, the poor then you aid hatAnd like rich Dives fcourg'd them from yo>gate;But tho’you did, thofe whom you thusdidfeo •yh.sy, like yourlelf, into this world werebor1 ho’ foryour alms they did both cringc&bo.I hey b?re (‘od’s image here as well as yen:^1 ho’ in God’s name a fuit to you they’d make,'t oll would not give one penny for his lake,My Lord beheld wherein you did amifs,And calls you hence to give account for this.( 7 ),ut he that is Wend to Vumfelf,, wiU provide for a cold winter day;■t will help him in time of his need,when his friends they will frown him awa;*.When work and money comes vn,O then Tin as brilk ara bee,And while We got hxpence to fpend,O my friends they will ah viht me.But if kve not a fixperce to Ipend, _' and a fixpence I go for to borrow,-HI be fure to come back as i went,‘tis very well known to my forrow.And if I to the ale-houfe do go,and fpend what Ilve toil'd for fo long,If I a Ik them to truft but one pot,they ttraightway will bid me be-gone.And if l run cn with old iceres,and get no more money to fpend,Theydl be fure to dap bums to my bade,for a man without money has no fnend.My breeches are ragged and torn,and my ftockings hang over my {hoes,My pockets no money will hold,for in truth We got none for to lofe.My {hirt is at black as a coal,for want of an induftrious wife,And if yon can help me go, a fellows,I'll mind you all the days of my life.C 8 )I love for to tumble and tof*,in due time w hen 1 go bed •Had I but an indullrioui wifeI furtly would Un ttning provide.And if flic were aa vl iUmg as I,to provide for a cold inter day.It would help us- in time of our needwhen friends they would frown us away.■AATOE CROWD!E, TWICE CROW DIE.^ tliat I had ne‘er been married, 'I wad never had nae care ;No,v I‘ve gotten wife and bairns,and they cry crow die evermair.Aries crowdie, twice crevvdie,tiiree times crowdie in a dav^Gjn ye cro s die ony mair,yedl crow die a‘ my meal away.aefu1 want and hunger fley meglow-rin by the haJIan enc;Oait I fight them at the door,but aye I-m eerie they come ben,Ance crowdie, &c.FINIS.filki^kj i'riiiied T. Johruiitt.