THEBudget of W*itAND DROLLERY.A SELECTION OFchoice Boar mots,Irish Blunders, Repartees, Anecdotes&c. &c.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.OF SCOTLAND■^^RyBURO^HI4 'JTHEBUDGET OF WIT.Scottish Prudence.A parish-clerk in the North of England, notlong ago, hired a Scotohman for his servant, whowas to go to the cart and plough, and do other-occasional jobs when wanted. In the course ofconversation at hiring, the clerk asked him, if hecould submit to the unpleasant business of digginggraves; to which he exclaimed, “ I’ll warrant ye,maister, I cou’d dig doon the k:rk for that mutter:but let me see, I hasn’t been put to that wark yet:aye, our auld belman at Jedburgh us’d to say, henever had beter pay, nor better jobs than howkingholes for fowk—faith he was aye merry when folkdeed.”—It happened soon after entering on hisservice, that there was a severe storm of snow,which impeded all out-door work. One morninghe came to his master, and asked him what em¬ployment he was to go to that day. The employerhesitated for some moments, and at last told him,he could find nothing for him to do. Sawmey, withgreat gravity, replied, “ I think, maister, I’ll awaup to the kirk-yard an’ hovvk some graves; wemay as weel hae a wheen ready, for they maycome faster in when they ken we are prepered for3' U5Scottish Atmosphere.An English gentleman on a tour through Scot¬land, was unfortunately accompanied by wetweather most of the time. When he set out fromGlasgow to Greenock, the morning was very line ;however, before he had proceeded half way, hewas overtaken by a heavy shower. “ Boy,” (sayshe to a little fellow herding near the road-side)“ does it always rain in this country !” “ Na,”replied the boy, “it sometimes snaws.”; f>O' !•f' •1 Mi iLiberty vf the Press.A master tailor in Glasgow, lately reading theNewspapers to his family, and when expressingthe title. Liberty of the Press in France, one ofbis daughters interrupted him, by asking what theLiberty of the Press meaned ? “ I'll soon answerthat question,” said he; “You know when yourmother goes out, and leaves the key in the cup¬board door, where the bread butter and sugar lies,then you have access:— 1 hat’s the Liberty o’ thePress.”Donald and the Laird.A Scottish Laird and his man Donald, travellingsouthward; at the first English Inn, the room inwhere they were to sleep contained a bed for themaster and a truckle for the man, which drewforth from beneath the larger couch. Such fur¬niture being new to the Highlanders, they mistookthe four-posted pavilion lor the two beds, and theLaird mounted the tester, while the man occupiedthe comfortable, lodging below. Finding himself4wretchedly cold in the night, the*Laird called toDonald to know how he was accommodated, “ne’ersae vveel a’ my life,” quoth the gilly. “ Ha, mon,”exclaimed the Laird, “ifit was na for the honourof the thing, I could find in my heart to comedown.”Hotv to read a Sign-board.A Highland Drover passing through a certaintown, noticed a Sign-board above an entry, will)the following inscription :Green Teas, Raw Sugars, Marmalades, Jellies,Capped Biscuits, and all sorts ofConfectionary Goodssold down this entry,read it as follows :Green Trees, Raw Sodgers, Mermaids, Jades,Scabbed Bitches, and all sorts ofConfusionary Goods,sold down this entry.How to Escape Robbery.A person extremely hard of hearing, travellingbetween Paisley and Greenock on horseback,some time since, had occasion to come off hishorse, when the reins slipped from among his fin¬gers; thehorse finding himself at liberty immediate¬ly ran off. The deaf man quickly followed, de¬termined to enquire at all he met it they had seenhis horse: the night was very dark ; however, hehad not gone far till he met with two men, whomhe accosted with, “ did you see a horse without arider ?’’ when he was immediately collared, hethought in diversion ; says he “ that’s no a way to633use a man in the dark and endeavouring to shakehimself clear, when instead of slacking their hold,they took fresh and firmer holds; and no doubtused voilent language, of which his deafness de¬prived him of hearing ; seeing all attempts to getclear fruitless, and dreading they had nothing inview but an intention to rob him ; it instantlyoccurred to him his havine an ear trumpet stickingin the top of his boot, which he used in conversa¬tion, he immediately pulled it up, laid the muzzelof it across the fellow’s arm, and exclaimed, “ ifyou don’t let go yoifr grups, I’ll blaw your brainsout in a moment!” they jumped over a hedge,and were out of sight in an instant, the deaf mancalled after them, 11 set aff, set aff, my lads, or I’llbe the death o’ baith o’ you, learn never to middlewi’ a man i’ the dark, forye dinna ken what deadlyweapons he carries.”Daft Will Speirs.Will, one day, upon his journey to Eglington castleto pay his regular daily visit, met his Lordship,who seemed not to notice him: the Earl beingonly on a walk of pleasure through his polices,soon came in contact with W ill again pitting atthe bottom of a tree, picking a huge bone; “ Ay,ay,” says the Earl, “ what this you’ve got noo.Will.”—“ Ay, ay,” says Will, “anew o’ frien’swhan folk has ocht; ye gaed by me awee sin’ an’ne’er loot on ye saw me.”Houi to Jind Work.A Slater being employed by a gentleman to re¬pair his house in the country, took along with hima prentice : when they set to work, and continued6to work for some days, the gentleman having noconception the job was to be of such duration,came out one morning, and found the apprenticeat work alone, when he expressed himself as sur¬prised at the continuation of them working so long,and enquired what had become of his master: towhich the boy replied, “ He’s awa to Glasgow tolook for a job, and if he got ane, this ane wouldbe done the morn, and if he didna get ane, hedidna ken when it would be done.”Will Scott.A celebrated attendant upon the Sheriff, wellknown for his activity in the execution of his orders,as well as for taking a bit comfortable guzzel whenfinances would afford it, was one Sabbath-daysnugly seated in the pew behind the Bailies atchurch. Will had not been there long til! he wassoon lulled into a sweet slumber, and found himselfseated along with his companions over a goodImperial Half-mutchken ; and in a short time thereckoning came a-paying, when some of the partyinsisted it was already paid; however, Will happen¬ed not to be of that opinion, and true to his en-tegrity, bawled out with all his might in the midstof the sermon, “ No, no, by my faith it’s no pay’t,we have had just ae half-mutchkin, an’ twa bottleso’ ale, an’ there’s no a fardin’ o’t pay’t.”Grave-Digger of Sorn.The Grave-Digger of Sorn, Ayrshire, was asselfish and as mean a sinner as ever handled mat¬tock, orcarried morteloth. He was a very querulousand discontented old man, with a voice like thewhistle of the wind thro’ a key-hole. On a bleak7Sunday afternoon in the country, an acquaintancefrom a neighbouring parish accosted him one day,and asked how the world was moving with him.“ Oh, very puirly, Sir, very puirley indeed,” wasthe answer, “ the yard has done naething ava forus this summer,—if you like to believe me I have-na buriet a leevin’ soul this sax weeks.”Scottish Parrot.A parrot perched upon a pole at a cottage door,beaking itself in the sun, was observed by a rap-cious hawk, which happened to be passing over it,suddenly dived down and seized poor Poll bythe back; away the hawk flew with his prey ; whenpassing over the garden, Poll observed his oldfriend the gardener, and exclaimed, I’m ridin’ noo,John Laurie. Hawky alarmed at hearing a voiceso near, darted into a tree for safety, when afterrecovering a little, commenced to devour poor Poll,when it roared out with all its might, will youbite you b . The hawk tenified out of itswits, flew off with a birr, leaving Poll to proceedhomewards at pleasure.The Restless Haggis.Daft Will Callander lived with his sister Babie,in Port-Glasgow ; Babie kept a lodging-house forSailors. One Saturday night Babie was makinga 1 laggis for Sunday’s dinner, when one of herlodger’s put four ounce of quicksilver into the hag-g.s unknown to Babie. On Sunday Will waslefl at home to cook the dinner; but when the potbegan to boil, the haggis would be out of the pot.Will faithful to his charge held the lid on the potuntil his patience was exhausted; at last Will ran8off to the church for Babie; she sat in one of theback pews; Will beckoned to her two or threetimes, Babie as often nodded and winked to Willto be quite; at last he bawled out, Babie, comehame, for I believe the de’il’s pot into the haggles,it’ill no bide in the pat, it’s out dancing on the floor,and if I had not locked the door, I think it wouldhave been at the kirk as soon’s mysel.”Expeiiae of a Wife.An old batchelor who lived in a very economicalstyle, both as regards food and clothing, and notaltogether so very trig as some bachelors some¬times appear, was frequently attacked by his ac¬quaintances on the propriety of taking a wife : hewas very smartly set upon one day, and told howsnod a wife would keep him, and many other finethings to induce him to take a w ife, and amongthe rest, what a comfort it would be to him, if itw'as for naething else but to make his parritch inthe morning; says he “ I dinna doubt but shewad mak my parritch, but the plague is, she wadbe fair to sup the hauf o’ them.”VAn Honest M‘Gregor.Donald M‘Gregor, a notorious sheep-lifter,(alias sheep-stealer) in the north Highlands, beingat last overtaken by the grim tyrant of the humanrace, was visited by the minister of the parish,whose appearance, however, was by no meansagreeable to Donald. Hie holy man warmly ex¬horted the dying Highlander to reflect upon thelong and black catalogue of his sins, before it wastoo late, otherwise he would have a tremendousaccount to give at the great day of retribution,339when all the crimes he had committed in this worldwould appear in dreadful array, as evidence of hisguilt. “ Och ! Sir,’’ cries the dying man, “an’will a’ the sheeps an’ the cows, an’ ilka thing Ton¬al has helped hersel to be there ?” Undoubt¬edly,” replied the parson. “ Then let ilka shentle-man tak her nain, an’ Tonal will be an honest managain.”A West Indian who had a remarkably fierynose, having fallen asleep in his chair, a negro boywho was waiting, observed a musquitto hover¬ing round his face. Quasi eyed the insect veryattentively; at last he saw him alight on his mas¬ter’s nose, and immediately fly off, “ Ah ! d nyour heart,” exclaimed the negro, me d n gladsee you burn your foot.”A Brnsh for the Barber.A Highlander who sold brooms, went into abarber’s shop in Glasgow a few days since to getshaved. The barber bought one of his brooms,and after having shaved him, asked the price ol it:“ Twopence,’’said the Highlander; “ No, no,” saidthe barber, “ I’ll give you a penny, if that does notsatisfy you, take your broom again.” The High¬lander took it, and asked what he had got to pay ?“ A penny,” said strap. “ I’ll gie you a bawbee,”said Duncan, “ an’ if that dinna satisfy ye, put onmy beard again.”rThe Kellochsyde Grace.The following is preserved traditionlly as thegrace of the farmer of Kellochsyde, or Killocsyde,10in Clydesdale :—O Lord, we’r ay gangan, and we’ray gettan. We soud ay be coman to thee, butwe’r ay forgettan. We leive in the gude rnailen o’Kellochsyde, suppan thy gude peisie kale, puirsinfou sons of  that we are. Monie mercieswe receive, gude trowth; and we’r little thankfoufar them, gude feth. Janet, rax by the spunes,and aw praise and glory sail be thine. Amen.New Method of Teaching Music.A Highland piper having a scholar to teach,disdained to crack his mind with the names ofsemibreves, minims, crotchets, and quivers “ Here, Donald,” said he, “ tak your pipies, lad,and gi’s a blast—so, very weel blaun indeed; butwhat is sound Donald without sense?—ye mayblaw for ever without makin’ a tune o’t, if I didnatell yon how thae queer things on the paper maunhelp you—you see that big fallow wi' a round openface, (pointing to a semibreve between the twolines of a bar,) he moves slowly, slowly, from thatline to this, while you beat ane wi’ your fit, andgi’e a blast; if now ye put a leg to him, ye mak’twa o’ him, and he'll move twice as fast; gif yeblack his face, he’ll rin four times faster than thefallow wi’ the white face; but if, after blackin' hisface, ye’ll bend his knee, or tie his legs, he’ll tropeight times faster than the white faced chap thatI showed \ ou first. Now, whene’er you blaw yourpipes,—Donald, remember this, the tighter thefallows’ legs are tied, thb faster they will rin, andthe quicker they are sure to dance.”A parson in the country taking his text in St.Matthew, Chapter viii. verse 14, ‘And Peter’s1135wife’s mother lay sick of a fever,’ preached forthree Sundays together on the same subject Soon after two fellows going across the church¬yard, and hearing the bell toll, one asked theother who it was for. Nay, I can’t tell; perhapsreplied he, it is for Peter’s wife’s mother, for shehas been sick of a fever these three weeks.Distinction of Sons and Daughters.About the year thretty-sax, a company differed“ Whether it was better for a man to hae sons ordochters.” They could not ’gree, but disputed itpro and con. At last one of them said to Grahamof Kinross, (wha hadna yoked wi’ them in the ar¬gument,) “Laird, what’s your opinion ?” Quo’he,“ I had three lads, and three lasses; I watna whilko’ them I liked best sae lang as they sucket theirmither; but de’il hae my share o’ the callantswhen they cam to suck their father.”Patrimony and Matrimony.At an examination of a school in Edinburgh, agentleman asked one of the scholars by what namethey called property that descended from a father ?“ Patrimony,” answered the scholar; and what doyou call it, when descended from a mother?“ Matrimony,” was the reply.One of the town's officers of Ayr, «as struckseverely by accident on the head by his wife After the fray was adjusted, the wife said to herhusband, H , had I killed you, and I beenhanged for it, would you marry Kate M‘Lauchlan.12Highlander and Partot.An hone&t Highlander walking along Holhorn.head a cry, Rogue Scot, Rogue Scot; his nothernblood fired at the insult, drew his broad sword,looking round him on every side to discover theobject of indignation; at last he found it camefrom a parrot, perched on a balcony within hisreach but the generous Scot ^flginipg to stainhis trusty blade with such ignoble blood, put uphi$ sword again, with a sour smite, saying, “ Ginye were a man, as ye're a green geesp, I wouldsplit your weem.”An Irishman one day was walking on the streetsof Belfast, found a light guinea, and got 18s forit: next day he was walking, and sees another,and says, Allelieu, dear honey. I'll have nothing todo with you, for I lost 3s by your brother yester¬day.In a party of ladies, on it being reported that aCaptain Silk had arrived in town, they exclaimed,with one exception, ‘ What a name for a soldier,!’‘ The fittest name in the world,’ replied a wittyfemale, ‘ for Silk can never be Worsted !’Addition.A farmer’s son, who had been sometime at theuniversity, came home to visit his father andmother; and being one night with the old folksat supper on a couple of fowls, he told them, thatby the rules of logic and arithmetic, he could provethese two fowls to be three.—“ Well, let us hear,’’said the old man: “ Why, this,” said the scholar,IS“ is one, and this,” continued he, “ is two, two andone, you know, make three.”—“ Since you ha’emade it out sae weel,” answered the old man, “yourmother shall ha’e the first fowl, I’ll ha’e the second,and the third you may keep to yoursel’.”A clergyman who wished to know whether thechildren of the parishoners understood their bibles,asked a lad that he one day found reading theOld Testament, who was the wickedest man ?Moses, to he sure, said the boy.—Moses! exclaim¬ed the parson, how can that be? Why, said thelad, because he broke all the commandments atonce!Not Lost bid Drowned.A Leith merchant being on his usual ride to thesouth, came to the ford of a dark river, at the sideof which a boy was diverting himself. The travelleraddressed him as follows “ Is this water deep? ’“ Ay, gaen deep,’’ answered the boy. “ Is thereever any person lost here?” “No,” replied theboy, “ there was never any lost; there has beensome drowned but we aye get them again.”A Just Remark.A certain son of St. Crispian, who resides in Pais¬ley, lifting up his four cornered hat the othermorning in a hurry, found it filled with his wife'sfal-de-ral-lals ; in a fit of wrath he exclaimed,“ Gudesake, Janet, what the de’il gars you stap a’the trash in the house intill a body’s hat.”—“ Trash,indeed !” exclaimed the indignant spouse, “ stapit on your ain head, and the biggest trash: in thehouse ’ll be in’t.”14Scotchman and Irishman*A Scotchman and an Irishman were sleeping atan inn together. The weather being rather warm,the Scotchman in his sleep put his leg out of thebed. A traveller in passing the room door, sawhim in this situation, and h aving a mind for a frolic,gently fixed a spur upon Sawney’s heel; who draw¬ing his leg into the bed, so disturbed his com¬panion that he exclaimed, “ Arrah, honey, have acare of your great toe, for you have forgot to cutyour nails I belaiv.” The Scotchman being soundasleep, and sometimes, perhaps, not a little dis¬turbed by other companies, still kept scratchingpoor Pat, till his patience being quite spent, hesucceeded in rousing Sawney, who not a little sur¬prised at finding the spur on his heel, loudly ex¬claimed, “ De’il tak’ the daft chiel of a hostler, he’sta’en my boots afflast night and left on the spur.”'' Charity.A person who resides in the ancient town ofKillwinning, proverbial for his liberality in meatand drink to friends and acquaintances ; strangerstoo, seldom passed without experiencing a dueshare of kindness; lately while feasting nearlya dozen of random visitors on “ Pat Luck,” abeggar called at the door soliciting charity, whenhe very good humouredly called out, “ I canna helpyou the day, I ha’e plenty o’ your kin’ here already.”Shooting the Devil.A Scotch parson preaching upon these words,“ resist the devil, and he will fly from you began3315thus:—My beloved, you are all here to-daj, butwot ye who is among ye; even the meikle horneddevil. You cannot see him, but by the eye of faithl see him. But some of you say, what will we dowith him, now we have him here ? How shall wedestroy him ? We will hang him. Ala^, my be¬loved, there are not so many tows in the parish aswill hang him, he is as light as a feather. Thensome of you will say we will drown him ; Humph,my beloved there is owre muckle cork in his a—,he’s as souple as an eel, he will not sink. Othersof you will say, we will burn him, Na, na, Sirs, youmay scald yourselves, but you cannaburnhim, fora’the fire in h— could never yet sing a hair o’ histail. Now, Sirs, ye canna find a way among youall to kill him, but I will find it. What way willthis be, Sire ? We will evpn shoot him. Where¬with shall we shoot him ? We shall shoot himwith the Bible. Now Sirs, I shall shoot him pre¬sently. So, presenting the Bible, as soldiers dotheir muskets, he cries out, Toot! toot! toot!Now he is shot: there lies the foul thief as deadas a herring.Long Credit.Soon after the battle of Preston, two Highland¬ers, in roaming through the South of Mid-Lothian,entered the farm house of Swanston, near thePentland Hills, where they found no one at homebut an old woman. They immediately proceededto search the house, and soon finding a web ofcoarse home-spun cloth, made no scruple to unrolland cut off as much as they thought would makea coat to each. The woman was exceedingly in-cenced at their rapacity, foared and cried, andeven had the hardihood to invoke divine vengeance16upon their heads. “ Ye villains !” she cried, “ye'llha’e to account for this yet!”—“ 4nd when willwe pe account for’t?” asked one of the Highland¬ers.—“ At the last day, ye blackguards !” exclaim¬ed the woman. “Ta last tay !” replied the High¬lander ; “ Tat be coot long chredit—we’ll e’en petak a waistcoat too !” at the same time cutting offa few additional yards of the cloth.Bird's Nest.The mother of a respectable grocer in a townin the west, called her son to her, while on herdeath-bed, and declared to him that his reputedfather was not really his father; but that such a one(naming him) really .was his father: and that thedeed was done one night when travelling fromGreenock, when at the Clun-Brae-Head; this storygot wing, and ran through the town like wildfire,ancf was a fine source of amusement for some time.One day a boy vulgarly named the ‘Linty,’ wentinto the said grocer’s shop to purchase some ar¬ticle, when he was assailed with “ Wee! Linty,whor is’tu gaun to big thy nest the year ? ’ Theboy replied, “ I was thinkin’ to big it dowm aboutthe Clun-Brae-Head.”Elder s Hours.A cunning carle invested w-ith the semi-sacredoffice of" Hulling Elder,” or practically seeminglyindent!tied with that office, in order to gratify aninclnation, scratched wi’ the nsb o’ a fork, thefigure 10, on the one side of his outer door, andfigure 11, on the other; by which plan he wasable to say wi* “a good conscience,” at a’ times,and on a’ occasions that he came aye hame atweenten and eleven.The Thistle.A few Scotch and English travellers being mettogether, an Englishman took it upon him to rundown the Thistle, exclaimed against the emptyboast of its motto, “ Nemo me impune la cessetwhen a Scotchman present observed, “ the This¬tle, sir, is the pride of the Scottish nation, but itis nothing in the mouth of an ass.”Cold Gentleman.In the west of Scotland, some time ago, therehappened to be an auction of books. A Book-buyer who attended the sale was summoned byhis son to supper, according to the directions of hismother. The boy flouried by the presence of theaudience, and in his attempt to be as explicit aspossible, thus cried out, “ Fayther, yer parritchis ready.”—“Very well, my dear, said his father,and at the door gave him a salute a 'posteriori,which was repeated with the following injunction.— Recollect rascal, when you come again, to saya gentleman wants me. Next evening up comesthe boy according to direction.—“ Is my Faytherhere ?”—“ Yes,” said the father. “ A gentlemanwants ye.’’—“ Very well, my man,’’ was repeatedby the boy’s parent; but little time elapsed whenthe boy returned; “ W hat now my man,” said theold book worm—“ Ou naething,” said his son,‘ but gin ye dinna rin fast the gentleman will bequite cauld.”18Dougal Graham.Dougal Graham, author of well-known metricalhistory of the rebellion in 1745, being candidatefor the place of town bell-man in the city of Glas¬gow, was desired to call “ Glide fresh herringsnew come in at the Broomielaw,” (it not being theseason of herrings,) Dougal added,“ Rllt> indeed, my friends, it’s a blaeflum,“ For t,)e herrings no catch’d, and the boat’s no come.”Which procured for Dougal the situation.Dougal was a kind of Scotch ^isop, he had alarge humph on one of his shoulders, and like hispatrotype, had wit. Calling in the street of theGnllogate, opposite the Saracen’s Head Inn, whereseveral officers of the gallant 42d regiment wereommg at the close of the American war, some ofwhom knew Dougal before they went abroad,opening the window, called out, “ W hat’s thatyou’ve got on your back, Dougal ?” Knowingwhat the regiment suffered at Bunker’s Hill,Dougal replied, “It’s Bunkers Hill; do you chooseto mount?”A \erv ay to IV aukcn Sleepers in Church.Mr Ogilvie, minister of the parish of Lunan inthe county of Forfar, had a great deal of eccentri¬city m his composition. One Sunday an old wo¬man, who kept a public-house in the parish, withwhom Mr Ogilvie was well acquainted, fell asleepin the church during sermon,—not an uncommonoccurance. Her neighbour kept jogging in orderto awake her. Mr Ogilvie observing this, cried\10out, “ Let her alane, I'll wauken her mysel’, I’llwarrant ye.”—“ Phew! phew! (•whistling) a bottleo’ ale and a dram, Janet.”—“ Cornin’, Sir” wasinstantly replied.—“ There now/’ says the minister,“I tald ye it wadna be lang afore I waken'd her !”Sage Instruction.A labouring Highlandman who lived in theupper parts of Perthshire, whose wife w'as taken inlabour, wished him to retire out of the house.Janet says to him.—“ Oh ! you be gang awa’Duncan, gang awa’!“ The man however keptloitering about the door, seemingly impressed withsomething of great importance. At last he criesto his wife, •' You speak a me, Shanet! you speaka me ! The wife asks, “ What you say, Duncan?—“Gie the cummer (the midw ife) a dram, Shanet,gie the cummer a dram !'•—What for Duncan?1-“ Gie the cummer a dram, Shanet, an' tell him tomake her a laddie.“The Purse and the Penny Siller,Three young Highlanders, some y'ears ago, satout from their native hills, to seek a livelihoodamongst their countrymen in the Lowlands. 1 heyhad hardly learned any English. Oneofthemcouldsay, “ We three Higlilandmenthe second, “Forthe purse and the penny sillerand the third hadproperly learned, “And our just right too;” intend¬ing thus to explain the motives o' their journey.They trudged along, when, in a lonely glen, theysaw the body of a man who had been recentlymurdered: the Highlanders stopped to deplore thefate of the unhappy mortal, when a gentleman with20h!s servant came up to the spot. “ Who murder¬ed this poor man said the gentleman, “ fVe threeHighiandmen,” answered the eldest of the brothers,(thinking the gentleman enquired who they were.)“ What could induce you to commit so horrid acrime?’’ continued the gentlemon. “ The Pursefind the Penny Siller,’’ replied the second of thetravellers. “ You shall be hanged, you miscreants!”—“ And our just right too!” returned the third.I he poor men were thus brought to the gallowson their own evidence, and presuvrption of guilt.Lump of Old Wood.\n aged man, named Thomas Wood, sitting ona high three-footed stool in the gallery of the OldChurch of Falkirk, during divine service happenedto fall asleep, tumbled on the floor with a greatnoise. The preacher stopped and demanded thereason of the noise. “ Nothing, bir,” cries a wag,“ but a lump of Old Wood fallen down.”The Great Want.A female pauper lately made a very strong andforcible appeal to the elders and heritors of a cer¬tain parish, for an advance of 4s 6d.—Some oneof the grave quorum enquired what made her sourgent on this occasion, when she had lately gota supply of coals, shoes, &c., to this she replied—“ Why, deed, sirs, it’s just to buy a pair o’ corsetsto my daughter Tibbie, ilk lass that’s ocht respect¬able lias them but hersel’, so ye see she canna dowantin’ them, an’ ye maun e’en let me ha’t sirs.”3321The Devil DefinedThe Rev. Mr Shirra, burgher minister in Kirk¬caldy, once gave the following curious definitionof the devil : “ The Devil, my brethren, is ill onyway ye’ll tak’ him. Tak’ the D from his name, he’sevil; tak’ the E from his name, he’s vil; tak’ theV from his name, he’s ilthen shrugging up hisshoulders, and lengthening his sanctified snout, hesaid, with peculiar emphases, “he’s naething butan il, vil, evil, Devil, ony way ye’ll tak him !”Mark me well.A gentleman having missed his way, fortunatelyoverlook a boy going with a pot of tar to mark hismaster’s sheep, asked the road to Banff, but wasdirecting by so many turnings, right and left, thathe agreed to take the boy behind him on the horseas he was going near to the same place. Findingthe boy pert and docoil, he gave him some whole¬some advice relative to his future conduct, addingoccasionally, 11 Mark me well, my boy!'—“ Yes,Sir, I do.” He repeated the injunction so often,that the boy at last cried out, “ Sir, I have nomore tar !!”Death of a Watch,After the battle of Falkirk, in 1746, a Highland-man w as observed extracting a gold watch fromthe fob of an Englsh officer, who had been killed.His comrade viewed him with a greedy eye, whichthe man taking notice of, said to him, “Tamn yougapin’ greedy bitch, gang and shoot a shentlemanfor hersel’, an’ no envie me o’ my pit watch.”V€2Next morning finding his watch motionles, andmeeting his comrade, says to him, “ Och ! she nobe care muckle about a watch, an’ you be likemine what will you gie me For her?’’ The otherreplied, “I be venture a kinny.”—“ Weel then,”said the other, “ Shust tak her, an welcome, forshe be die yester night.”Our Lawful Sovereign.An English officer dinning with Lord Saltoon,some years after the Battle of Culloden, his Lord¬ship was adverting to the strong attachment mani¬fested by the generality of Buchan to the unfor¬tunate house of Stuart, and particularly remarkedthe devoted loyalty of his gardener, whom no bribeor entreaty could in the smallest degree influence;“ I’ll bet 50 guineas,” said the Englishman, “thatI shall make him drink the health of King George.—“Done!” replied his Lordship. The honestgardener was called in. I he officer began bypraising his fidelity and loyalty to his prince; press¬ed him to drink some glasses of wine: and whenhe thought him a little off his guard from the effectsof the generous liquor, he began thus: “ Now, myfriend, I know you are a good Christian and wishwell to every human being; you can certainly haveno objection to drink the health of King George?Come, my worthy fellow, a bumper to the healthof his Majesty,”—“ Here’s to the health of ourlawful Sovereign,” said the gardener, “d—n youSir,” cried the officer, “ That’s not King George ?—” I am very much of your opinion', replied theman,—making a profound bow, and retiring.2333f' Down the Rotten-Row.A few years ago, when resurrectionistst hrouglioutthe country were become very common, a personof respectability was interred in the High Churchburying ground of Glasgow. The relatives whowere persons of property, hired a few hungry wea¬vers, who generally at that time were atomies readymade,—to watch the grave of their deceased re¬lative ; these, as they were one night on duty, per¬ceived some persons enter the church yard, theykept snug till such time as they could learn theobject of their visit. It was not long before theintruders opened a grave, took out the corpse, putit into a sack, and left it at the grave, and wentin search of something else. One of the weavers,a droll fellow, said to his comrades, “ Take outthe corpse, and Til go into the sackj but do youobserve the proceedings.” In.a little time theresurrection men returned, and one of them gettingthe sack upon his back marcb«d off; when they gotto the street, the one says to the other, “ Whichway will we take ?” When the weaver putting outhis hand and gripping the fellow who was carryinghim, by the hair, bawled out, “ Down the RottenRaw, ye b-g—r.” He was soon set down, andthe man who carried him, went mad of the fright.Resurrection Men.Some years ago, a poor boy, whose mother wasburied in the church-yard of Falkirk, used fre¬quently to sit on her grave, and when destitute ofother accommodation, would crawl in below one ofthe grave stones, and sleep there for the night.On one of these occasions, the boy was roused fromhis sleep by the noise of some voices in the church-24yaid. This was nothing more thin a couple ofresurrection men who had come on purpose to be¬gin that great work rather prematurely: and asthose who are raised before the due time cannotbe supposed capable of standing on their legs, theyhad prdlyided themselves with a horse to gi’e thema lift. They were then disputing about how theycould secure the beast, while they-were raisingthe corpse: the lad hearing this, and creeping outof his hole cries, “ I’ll hand him,'' expecting someremuneration no doubt. The fellows seeing aresurrection commencing from under a stone, andhearing the offer of holding the horse, scamperedoff and left the animal, with a couple ofjsacks; andalthough the horse and sacks were advertised, theywere never claimed, but sold for the benefit of theboy, which procured him better lodging than be¬neath a grave stone.March of Intellect.Tw'o country carters, passing the entrance to theArcade, Argyle Street, Glasgow, observed paintedon the wall, “No dogs to enter here." “No dogsto enter here!” exclaimed one of them, “Tm surethere’s no use for that there.’’ “What way,Jock,” replied the other, “’(jause dogs cannaread signs,” said he. “Ha, ha, Jock, ye’re may¬be wrang, i’se warran ye gentle folks dogs ’illken’t bfawley, for there’s schools, noo, wliar theylearn the dumb baith to read and speak.”