Fair Margaret’s MisfortunesTo which are added.A Cogie of Ale.The weary pund o’ Tow.Song in Rosina.STIRLING.Printed by W. Ma;nie.LUr'.;ff V ritr QrnTl A^rFAIR MaRGaRF.PS misfortunes,As it fell out upon a day,two lovers they sat upon a hill:They sat together a long sumaaer’i day,and could not take their fill.1 see no harm by you Margaret,and you see none by me;Before to morrow at eight o’ clock,a rich wedding you shall see.Ffiir Margaret sat in her bower windowa combing of her hair ;There she spy'd sweet William and bride,as they were a riding nsar.Down she laid her ivory comb,and up she bound her hair,She went away forth from the bower,and never more earae there.W^hen day was gone, and night was cosie,and alt men fast asleep,There came the spirit of Fair Margaret,and stood at Willirm'i bed-feet.3Goi give you joy, you true lovers,in bride-bed fast asleep,Lo 11 am going t* my green-grass grove,and I am b »y winding sheet.When day was come ana night was gone,and all men wak’d from sleep,Sweet William to his lady said,my dear, I've cause to weep.I dream’d a dream my dear Ladysuch dreams are never good sI dreara’d thy bow’r was iull of red swine,and thy bride-bed full of blood.Such dreams such dreams, my honoured Sir,they never do prove good ;To dream my bower was full of red swine,and my bride-bed full cf Wood.'x f J'iHa called ujf his merry men ad,by one by two and by threa,Saying. I'll away to fair Margaret’s bower,by the leave of my fair lady.A.W when he enme to fair Margaret’s bosver,he knocked at the ring :4So ready were the erven brstbrento let Sweet William So.Then hd tutsted up the vt’sding »Veet,pray let mti see the deadMethinkl she look* both ptit and wan,site has lost her cherry red.I will do more for thee, M&rguet,than ary of thy kin,For 1 will kiss tby pala wan lips,though a uaile I cannot win,With that bespoke the seven brethren,making most piteous moan.You may go kiss your jolly brovro darae,a^d ls« cur sister alone.Tf f do kirs my joi’y brown dame,f do but what is right,For I made no vcw to your sister dear,by day nor yet by eight.Pray teit me then how much you’ll dealof white bread and of wine.So mnch as is dealt at her fureral to—iay,t^'orrew ih&li be dtslt ss mti.-e/s1 Fiir Jtf*r&aret dj’d to-dky to-d*y,twctt Willbm hi dy*d the morrow;I Fair Margaret dy'd for pur» trua love,iwsrM William h* dy'd for •otrowki Margaret waj buried in the low anneal,I arid WilHaa in the highoc,1 Out of her breast there rpresg,i and out of hi* a briar.| They grow as high as ths church top,'till they could grow no higher ;Asd thfr,’ grew in a True-lover'a irnot,that made all people ad.oi,to.Then came the derk of the psriabas you this truth shall hear,. And by misfortunes cut them dowsor they h*d now b?en there.i . i, . tj iinf :;iov in3» A CXJFE OP ALE.■L ■ , ^ ? _« ... r, 0in is yi c gik of ale, and a pkkle ait meal,nd a dainty weq drappie d whisky, ,-fas out forefather’* dose tOjSwell downsth-sir brosaad mske them blj tl e cherry aod frisky.t' 6Th*n for tb« cogie and hey for the ale,Aad hey for the whisky and hey for the m;»•■ten raht’d V thegither they do unco weel;To »ak a chield cheery and brisk ay.A 9 I view our Scots lads in theirkilts and coek»«A' bloomiag an 3 frt's'i ss a rose, man;I think vvi' mysel, o’ tha meal and the ale,A nd the fruits o’ our Scottish kail bro»e maa ;Then hey for the C0(,ie &c.■ 5 W, .. >. •' - 'Wh«B pur brave. Higjdaed blades, wi' lhair elmores and.plaids, ; . 3}In tha field, drive like sheep, a’ our foes. »an,Their courage and pow’r, spfingfrae this, to be*!They’re the noble effectflof the brosO, man,Ttien liey for theicogie, &c.Put your spindle-shaok’d sparks, wha but iil *etttheir sarks,And your pale-vi^aged milksops and beaus, raaiI th;nk when I see them’ 'twere kindnesi to gi'<them,»' n ■ ' *A cogie of alp and of brose .man.Then h-y fer thb cogie, See. ' T7/o —*—   THE WEAR? PUiJD O* T# ft.The weary pund, the vearj pun:iThe weary pnnd o’ w;I think my wife will ead her it!'*Bafore she spin hex tow,•: bought my wife a stase o’ Unt,! as good as e’er did grow,:i.nd a’ that she has made o’ thati Is ae puir puud o tow.t here sat a bottle in a notkAy oat the iagle low,.ad ay she took the itber souk. to drouk the stourie tow..uoth I, for shame, ye dirty danse,Gae spin your tip o’ tow:ibe took the rock, and wi' a knpcls,She brak it o'er my pow.t last her feet, (I sang to lee’t)Gael foremost o'er a knowe ;nd ere I wed another jade,1 11 wallop in a tow.*SONG IN ROSfNWhen William al ev* meet* me dowa at the etilaih(?w swaet i* the oighiisgaie^ song,Of the day I forget all the bbeur and toilwhilst the mom plays yon branch as among.By her beams without blushing I hear hi* complnand believe every word of his song :You know oot how sweet 'tli to love ihj dear swatswhilst the aetooa play* y«n branches among.FINaS.