XT H. iimerry talesOF T ;i BJVife Men of Gotham*TO which is added,A COLLECTION OF JESTS.Q/*merry Booh this is the wak,'Twill make your Jor to [mile.To learn wifdom. furcyou mayA tedious hour beguile.EDINBURGH:?ri*tcd and Sold by J, Mohrin, Gowgatc^7THEMERRY TALESOF THEWISE MEN OK GOTH AM.TALL 1.THERE were two men of Gothamand one of them was going toNottingham market to buy flicep, andthey both met together on Notting¬ham, bridge. Well met, faid on- to theother; whether are you going? faid hethat came from Nottingham. Marry,faid he that was going thither, I amgoing to the market to buy fheep Buyfheep! faid the other, which way wiltyou bring them home.' Marry, faidthe other, I will bring them over thisbridge. By Robin Hood faid he thatcame from Nottingham, but thou (haltnot By my maid Margery, laid the o-ther, but I will. V ou (hall not, faid theone; 1 will, faid the other Then theybeat their (l ives one againft the other,and then againft the ground, as if ahundred (heep had been betwixt them.Hold there, faid the one, Beware ofmy (keep leaping over the bride, faidthe orher.I carenot, faidtheone Theyikall all come this way, faid the other.The MERRY TALES, See. 3I But they iL.ill not, laid the one. Thenlaid the other, if thou make nluch ado,il wilt put my linger in thy mouth. A| turd thou wilt, laid the other And asthey were in contention, another wife1 man that belonged to Gotham, came(from the market with afack of mealIon his horfe^ and feeing his neighboursat ftrife about fhcep, and none betwixtthem, laid he, Ah ! fools, will you ne¬ver learn wit! then help me, continu¬ed he, to lay this lack upon ihy fhoul-der. They did fo, and'he went to thefide of the bridge, and Ihook out themeal into the river, faying, how muchmeal is there in my fack, neighbours?. Marry, faid one, none. Indeed, repli¬ed this wife man, even fo much wit Lthere in your two heads, to ftrive forthat you have not—Now, which was, the wifeft of thefe three ? I leave yovito judge.TALE II.THERE was a man in Gotham thatrode to the market with two bulhels of1 wheat, and bec.iufe his horfe’(houlilaot be damaged by carrying too great1a burden, he was determined to carrythe corn himfeif upon his own necka4 The MERRY TAL^ of th?; >and Rill kept riding upon his horfe, tillhe arrived at the end of his journey.Now I will leave,you to judge, vyh ichvras tho' wife ft, his horfe or himfeif.T A ,L E III.On a time tjhp' men of Gotham fainwould have pinp’d in the cuchow, thatfhe might fmg all the year: and m theniidft of the town, they had a hedgemade .rcynd in pompafs, and got a cuokow, and put her into it, and laid, Singhere, arid ye fliall neither lack meatnor drink all the year, The cuckow,when fn?. perceiv’d herfelf encompafledwithin the.hedge, flew away. A venge¬ance on her, faid thefe wife men, wedid not make our hedge high enough.T A L E IVTHERE was a pa^n ot Gotham whowent. ta.Nottingham-market to fellcheeky and going down the hill toNottingham-bridge, one of his cheefesfell out of his wallet, and. ran down thehill. W.horelon, faid the fellow, what,can you; run to the market alone ? I’llnow fend one after anorher. Thenlaying bis wallet down, taking out thechcefes he tumbled them down the hill,one after auother. Some ran into oneTTTSF. MEN” of GOTHAM. 5bnfh;' cTtkI fome into';motlier. Howe-iver, h^1 charged tliirti to meet him inthe marker-ptece • The man went to the■market to nf&t with his cheefes, andftay^d till the markef was almoft over;‘-then went'and enquired at his, neigh¬bours, if they faw his cheefes Coming tothe market ? Why, who ihbtiid bringthem? faid one. ’Marry,themfelves,faid the fellow, they knew the way ve¬ry- well A verigehrtde on them, theyran fo" faff, I was afraid they would• run beybndfhe mafkfet; I am perfuad-•ed they are by this time almoft as-faras York. So'he immediately rode toYork, but was very much difappoint-ed. And to add to it, he never foundnor heard of one of his cheefes.TALE V.A Man of-Gotham bought at Not¬tingham market,r atrevot, of barn-iron;and going home-with it, his fliouldersgrew weary ’with the carriage. He fetit down, and feeing it> had three Feet,~faid,Whorefon, thoh haft thfeefeet andI but two, thou (halt bear me home ifthou wilt; fo fet himfelf down uponit, and faid to it. Bear mer as long asI have done thee, for if thou doll not,.6 THE MERRY TALES of theijioit ft-’adt Rand fH!] for me. The manof Goiham feeing that his trivot wouldnon move. Stand ftili faid he in thevin^ cr’s name, and follow me if thouwilt, and I ean (how you the righttsay. When he went home his wifef»H:ed him where the .trivot wqs ? Helaid, it had three legs and he had buttwo, aptl, he had taught him the reedyway to his ho life therefore he mightcome himfelf if he would. Where didyou leave the trivot, laid the woman ?At Gotham bridge, faid he So Hie im¬mediately ran and fetched tbe trivother felt, or other wife fhemuft certain¬ly have loft it, ou account of her huf*baud’s want of wit.T A L E VI.A certain fmith of Gotham had alarge vrafp’s neft in the ftraw at theend of his forge, and there comingone of his neighbours tp have his horfeihoed, and the wafps being exceedingbufy, the man was ftimg by one ofthem. The man bping grieyoufly af¬fronted, faid, Are you worthy to keepa forge or not, to have men flung withthefe wafps ? G! neighbour, faid thefifthly be content, and 1 ftiall put themWISE MEN of GOTHAM. 7trom their neft prefently Immediate¬ly he took a coulter and heated it redhot, and thruft into the draw at theend of his forge, and fet it on fire, andburnt it up. Then laid the fmith, Itold thee I’d fire them out of their neft.TALE VII.ON Good Friday, the men of Go¬tham, confulted together, what to dowith their white herrings, Iprats, andfalt-fifh, and agreed, that all inch fifhfhould be caft into the pond or pool inthe midft of the town, that the num¬ber of them might increafe againft thenext year Therefore every one whohad any fifti left, did caft them imme¬diately into the pond Then faid one,I have gotten lb many red-herrings vWell, faid another, and I have left fomany whittings ; Another immediate¬ly cried out, 1 have as yet gotten fomany fprats left; And, faid the laft,I have gotten fo many fait fifties, letthem go together in the great pond,without any diftin&ion, and we may¬be fure to fare like lords the next year.At th* beginning of the next Lent theyimmediately went about drawing thepond, imgining they fhould have the8 The MERRY TALES of thefi/h ; but were mueh furprifed to findnothing but a large eel. Ah !Taid they]a mifchief on this eel* for he hath eatien up our fifh. What muft we do withhim ; Ltd one to the other; kill him’faid one, chop him in pieces, fuid an4other, Nay, not fo, faid the other, butlet us drown him. Ee it accordinglyfo, replied they all So they immedi¬ately went into another pond, and caftthe eel into the water. Lie there, faidthele wife men, and fhift for thyfelf,fince you may not expect any help fromus. So they left the eel to be drownedTALE VIII.On a time the men of Gotham hadforgotten to pay their rents to theirlandlord. So one faid to the other, To¬morrow muft be pay day, by whomcan we fend our money to our land-;lord ? Said one of therti, 1 have thiaday taken a hare, and he may carry it;for he is very quick footed; be it fo;replied the reft; he lhall have a letter,and a large purfe to put our moneyin, and we can dired him the readyway. When the letter "was written, andthe money put into the purfe, they imtmediately tied them about the hare'?WISE MEN of^OTHAM. otieck, faying. You riluft firft go to'Loughborough, and then to Leicefter,and at Newark is our landlord ; then'commend us unto him, and there ishis due The hare, as foon as he got'out of their hands, ran quite a contra¬ry way. Some faid, thou muft firft goto Loughborough ; othcfs faid, let thehare alone, for he ca& tell a nearerway than the belt of us; let him go.TALE IX.A Man of Gotham that went mow¬ing in the meadow found a largegrafshoppsr; he immediately threwdown his fcythe, and ran home to hisneighbours, and faid, Tjiat the devilwas there irl the field, and was '.hop¬ping among the grafs. Then was e-very man ready, with their clubs JjndHaves, halberts and other weapons, tokill the grafshopper. When they cameolmoft to the place where the grafs-hopper was, faid one to the other, letevery one crofs himfelf trom the devil,for we will not meddle with him, fothey returned again, and faid, we werebleft this day that we went no far¬ther. O ye cowards, faid he, that lefthis fcythe in*the meadow, help me toto Tile MERRY TALES of thefetch my fcythe. No, anfwered they^it is good to fleep in a whole (kin. Itis much better for thee to lofe thyfcythe, than to marr us all.TALE X.ON a certain time there were twelvemen of Gotham that went to fifli; andfome waded in the water, and fomeRood on dry land. And in going*home, one laid to the other, we haveventured wonderfully in wadeing, Ipray God, that none of us did comefrom home to be drowned. Nay, mar¬ry, faid one to the other, let us feethat, for their did twelve of us comeout. Then they told themfelves, andevery one told eleven. Said the oneto the other, there is one of us drown¬ed. They went back to the brookwhere they had been fHhing, and foughtiij) and down for him that was drown¬ed, making great lamentation. A cour¬tier coming by, aiked what it way theyfought for, and why they were for-rovvful ? Oh ! faid they, this day wewent to fifh in the brook; twelve of uscame out together, and oneis drown¬ed. Said the courtier, tell how manythere be of you. One of them faid e-WISE MEN OF GOTHAM I tileven; but he did not count himfelflWeli, faid the courtier, what will yougive me, and I will find the twelfth,man? Sir, faid they, all the money wehave got. Give me the money, faidhe; he then began with the firft, andgave him a ftroke over the fhoulderswith bis whip, which made him groan;faying, here is one, and fo he fervedthem all, and they groaned at the mat¬ter. When he came to the laft, he paidhim well, faying. Here is the twelftlman; God’s blelling on thy heart, faidthey, for finding our brother.TALE XLA Man of Gotham riding along thehigh-way, faw a cheefe, fo drew hisfword and pricked it with the point,in order to pick it up Another mancame by and alighted, and picked itup, and rode away with it. The Manof Gotham rides back to Nottingham,to buy a long (word to pick up thecheele; and returning to the placewhere the cheefe did 3y, he pulled outhis fword, pricking the ground, andfaid, If I had had but this fword, Ifhould have had the cheefe myfelf,but now another has got it.®2 The MERRY TALES of theTALE XII.A man of Gotham that did not lave•his wife, and (he having fair hair, herhufband faid divers times, he would<cut it off, but durft not do it whenflie was awake, fo he tefolved to do itwhen flie was afleep; therefore onenight he took up a pair of ihcers. andput them under his pillow ; which hiswife perceiving, faid to one of hermaids, go to bed to my hufband, forhe intends to cut off my hair to-night,let him cut off thy hair, and, I willgive thee as good a kirtle as ever thoudid fee. The maid did fo, and feign¬ed herfelf alleep. which the man per¬ceiving, cut off the maid’s hair, andwrapped it about the Iheers, and laidthem under the pillow, and went tofleep ; the maid arofe, and- the wifet09k the hair and fheers, and went tothe hall, and there burned the hair.The man had a fine horle that he lov-ee much, and the goodwife went intothe liable, cut offthe horfe’s tail, wrap¬ped the fiieers up in it, and then laidthem under the pillow again, HerjhufKand feeing her combing her headin the morning, marvelled very muchWISE MEN of GOTHAM. 13thereat The girl feeing her mailer ina deep Iludy, faid, What the devil ailsthe horfe in the ftable ? he bleeds pro-digioully. The man ran into the lia¬ble, and found the horfe’s tail was cutoff; then going to his bed, he foundthe Iheers wrapped up in his horfe’stail. He then went to his wife, fayingI crave thy mercy, for I intended tocut off thy hair, but have cut off myown horfe’s tail. Yea, faid fhe, felf-do,felf-have. Many men think to do a„ bad turn, but it turneth offt-times totliemfelves.T ALE. XIII.A Man of Gotham laid his wife awager, that Ihe could not make him acuckold. No ! faid Ihe, but I can. Donotfpareme, faid he, but do what youcan. On a time Ihe had hid all thefpiggot;s and faucets, and going intothe buttery, let the barrel a-broach,and cry’d to her hufband, Pray bringme a fpigot and faucet, or elfe the alewill all nvn out He fought Up anddown, but could not find one. Comehere then, laid Ihe, and put thy fingerin the tap-hole. Then fhe called a tay-lor with whom lire had made a bargain.14 The MERRY TALES of tlieSoon after flie came to her hufbancf,and brought a fpiggot and faucet, fay**ing pull thy finger out of the tap-hole,good cuckold. Belhrew your heart foryour trouble, faid he, make no fuchbargain with me again.TALE XIV.A Man of Gotham took a youngbuzzard, and invited four or five gen¬tlemens fervants to the eating of it;but the old wife killed an old goofe,and (he and two of her goflips ate upthe buzzard, and the old goofe waslaid to the fire for the gentlemens fer¬vants. So when they came, the goofewas fet before them. What is this, faidone of them ? the goodman faid, a cu¬rious buzzard. A buzzard! faid they,why ’tis an old goefe, and thou art aknave to mock us, and fo in great an¬ger departed home The fellow wasvery forry that he had affronted them,and took a bag and put the buzzard’sfeathers in it; but his wife defiredhim before he went, to fetch a blockof wood, and in the interm (he pulledout the buzzard’s feathers, and put inthe goofe’s. Then the man taking thebag, went to the gentleman’s fervants,WISE MEN of GOTHAM. 15and faid, Pray be not angry with me,you (hall fee I had a buzzard, for herebe the feathers. Then he opened thebag and took out the goofe’s feathers.Upon which one of them took a cud¬gel, and gave him a dozen of ftripes,faying. Why you knave, could you notbe content to mock us at home ? butare you come here to mock us ?TALE XV.A Man’s wife of Gotham was deli¬vered of a male child, and the fatherinvited the goflips, which were child¬ren of eight or ten years of age. Thecldeft child’s name was Gilbert, thefecond’s name was Humphrey, andthe Godmother’s name was Chriftibel,Their relations admonilhed them di¬vers times, that they mart all fay afterthe Parfon And when they were allcome to the church, the prieft faid, Beyou all agreed of the name ? Gilbert,Humphrey, and GhriftibeH fo faid theyall. The prieft then laid, whereforecame you hither ? They immediatelyfaid the fame. The prieft being ama¬zed, could not tell what to fay, butwhiftled and faid, Whey, and fo didthey. The prieft being angry, faid Go16 The MER.RY TALES of thehorae tools, go home Then Gilbert^Humphrey, and ChriftibeJ, did thefame. 'fThe priefl then provided god¬fathers and godmothers himfelf.Here x man may fee, that, childrencan do nothing without good inftruc-tions, and that they are not vvife whodifregard them.TALE XVI.A Young than of Gotham went itwooing to a fair maiden; his motherwarned him before hand, faying, whenever you look aa her, call a fhecp’s eyeat her, and fay, How doft thou, myfweet Pigfnie ? ./The fellow went to abutcher’s and bought feven or eightllieeps’ eyes., And when this luftywooer was at dinner, he would lookupon this fair wench, and call: in herface a {beep’s eye, faying. How doftthou do, my fweet Pigfnie ! How do Ido, faid the wench, fwine’s-face, whatdo you mean, by calling a ftieep’s eyeat me ? Oh f fweet pigfnie, have atthee-with another. But I defy thee,fwine’s-face, faid the wench. What,my Iweet old Pigfnie, b» content, forif you live till next year, you will beWISE MEN of GOT ft AM. J *)fhe, for if you live till the next year yewill be a fool. ■ >TALE XV1L   ;There was a man of Gotham whow’ould be married, and when the dayof marriage was come, they went rOchurch. The prieft faid, Dof yoir fayafter me. The man faid. Do you •'feyaVer roe. The prieft foid, Say not .af¬ter me fuck words; but fay what I tellyou ; thou doft play the fool to mockthe holy Scripture concerning matri¬mony. Then the fellow faid, thou doft.play the fool to mock the holy ferip-tureconcerning matrimony. The prieftcould not tell what to fay, but anfwer-ed, What ftuill I do with this foof ?And the man faid. What fhall I dowith this fool ? So the prieft took hisleave and would not marry them. Buthe was inflrucied by others how to dcr,and was afterwards married. And thusthe breed of the Gothamites has beenperpetuated even untb this day.T ALE XVII.There was a Scotfman who dweltat Gotham, ancj he took a houle a lit¬tle diftance from London, and turn¬ed it into an inn ; and for' hklign he18 The MERRY TALES of thewould have a boar’s head. According¬ly he went to a carver, and (aid, canyou make me a bare-head ? Yes, faidthe carver. Then, laid he, make mea bare-head, and thou’ic have 2od forthy hire, I will do it fuid the carver.So on St Andrew’s day before Chrifl-mas, the which is called Yule in Scot¬land, the Scot came to London for hisboar's head to fet up at his door. Mayto thee, ipeak, faid the cotsman, haftthou made me a bare head ? Yes, faidthe carver. He went and brought aman’s head ot wood that was bare,and faid. Sir, here is your bare-head-Ay, laid the Scot, The meikle de’il! isthis a bare-head ! Yes faid the carver.I fay, faid the Scotsman, I will have abare head, like a head that {-ollows thefow that hasgryces. Sir, faid. the car¬ver, I don’t know fow and gryces.What, whorefon, know you not a lowthat will greet and groan, and cry, aweek, a week. What, faid the carver?do you mean a pig? Yes, faid theScotsman, let me have her head nVadein timber, and fet on her fcalp, andlet her fing whip whire. The carveraid, he cotild not. You whorefon.T"-4WISE MEN of GOTHAM. 19laid he, gar her as fhe’d fing, whipwhue T his fhews that all men de¬light in their fancy.TALE XIX,IN old times, during thefe tales, thewives of Gotham were got into an ale-houfe, and faid, they were all profit¬able to their hu£bands. Which way,j|ood gofiips, faid the ale-wife ? Thehr ft fuid, I will tell you all good gof-fips; I cannot brew nor bake, there¬fore I am e\erv day alike ; and go tothe ale-houfe, becaufe I cannot go tothe church, and in the ale- houfe I prayto God to fpeed my hufband, and Iam fure my prayers will do him moregood than labour. 1 hen faid thefecond, I am profitable to my hufband,m laving ot candle in winter, for Icaufe my hufband and all my peopleto go to bed by day-light, and rife byday-light. The third faid, I am pro¬fitable in fparing bread, for I drink agallon of ale, 1 care not much for meat.The fourth faid, I am loth to fpendmeat and drink at home, fo I go tothe tavern at Nottingham, and drinkwine, and fuch other things as Godfends me there. The fifth faid, a man'•So The MERRY TATjhbfthe .will ever haTe more company in and-ther's houfe than his own, and rob ftcommonly in jthe ale-houie. The fixthfaid my hirfband ha*s ftnx and wool toTpare, if go to other folks honfes to do'their work The feventh hud, I fpaveborh my hufband^s wood and clothes,and fit talking all the day at otherfolks fire. The'eighth faid, beef, fnihs"tOn and pork arfe dear, I therefore takbpigs, chickens, conies and capons, be¬ing of a lefTer price. Ihehfmfi faid,I fpare my hulhanid’s foap, for infleadof wafinng'otlc j a a week, X vvafh butonce a quarter. Then (aid the ale wife,I keep all my hufband’s afe I brewfrom fouring; for as I wont to drinkit almoft up, now T leave never a drop.TALE XX.On Afh Wednefday, the minifter ofGotham would have a colledion fromhis parifhieners; and faid unto them,My friends, the time is come that youmufl ufe prayer, falling and alms, butcome ye to fhrift, I will tell you moreof my mind. But as for prayer, I don’tthink that two men in thej parifh canfay their Pater-nofter. As for failing'ye fail ftiil, for ye have not a goodT"WISE MEN- -of GOTHAM. 21.ttieal’s .meat m the year. As far alms-deeds, \yhat fnou!,d they give that have,nothing ? in Lent, you muft refrainfrom d.rimkenueis, and abflain fromdrink No, not fo, faid one fcl ow, forit is an .old .proverb, ‘ That tifli fhould‘ fwim ’ Yes, faid the prieft, it mtiftfwiin in the water I cxavp \:our mer-.cy, quoth the fellow, I thought .it.fhould have fwam in fine aie, for 1have been told fo Soon after the menof Gotham came to ihr^ft, and beingfeven in number, the prieft knew notwhat penance to give them He faid.If I injoin you to pray, you cannotfay your pater nofler And it is butfolly to make you fadf, becaufe younever eat a good meal’s meat Labourhard, and get a good dinner on Sun¬day, and 1 will partake of it, anotherman he enjoined to fare well on Mon¬day, and another on Tuefday, and oneafter another, that one or other fhouldfare well once in the week, that hemight have part of their meat. Andas for alms-deeds, the prieft faidr yebe but beggars, except one or two,threfore b*ftow your alms on yaur-felves22 A COLLECTION OF JESTS.AN Irifhmun beinji aflced, whetherhe or his brother were oldeft ? I amoideft. faid he, bat if my brother livethree years longer, we lhall be both ofone age.An Irilh fervant being (truck by hismalter, cried out Devil take me, if Iam certain whether he has kill’d me ornot; but if I am dead it will affordme great Satisfaction, to hear the oldrogue was hanged for killing of me.A deaf fellow coming to London tofell a turkey, at Hyde-park-Corner, hadoccafion to untrufs a point; a gentle¬man pafling by, intended to put ajoke upon him; Countryman, faid hethere’s a turd Under you; the manthinking he alked the price of his tur¬key, faid, four Ihillings, mafter Ifaythere’s a turd under you, faid the o-ther. It is as good as ever you ate inyour life, faid the fellow, either bakedor roafted. You rafcal, faid he, I couldfind in my heart to kick you foundly.Come chufe, lays the fellow, for if youwon’t another will.One being at his wife’s funeral, andthe bearers going prettv quick along,he cried out to them, Don’t go fo faft.Twhat need we make a toil ot a pleafureTwo Irifhmen, walking together inthe fields, were at length hemmed inby a great ditch, which when theyperceived, quoth one of them, we muftgo back again, for the ditch is too bigfor us to jump over; nay, quoth theother, I proteft I’ll jump over, thoughI light in the middle.A number of French gentlemen, din¬ing at a tavern in Germany. the maid,as (he took out the dhhes, let a roufingfart; and her raiftrefs fcolding her fe-verely for doing fuch a thing in hear¬ing of the guefts. Pfhaw, madam, fays{he, you don’t confider that they areall French people, and don’t under-ftand German.In Admiral Hawke’s laft engage¬ment with the French, a lailor on boardone of the (hips, ban a leg fhot off,whereupon one of his mels-mates tookhim down to the furgeon, and took hisleg off the deck, and put under hisarm; he was no fooner brought down,but another of his rmfs mates began{baking his head, and telling him; hewas very forty he had loft a leg. Thatis a damn’d lie, you fon of a b—h, re-24: A COLLECTION OF JESTS,plied he, lor I’ve got it under my arm.As Dean Swift was eroding the ferrysfcl Dublin, turning himl'elf from the;paflengers in the ftern of the boat, afk-e.d a poor man near him, Well, friend,what profeflion are you of? I am a tay-lor, Sir, anfwered the other, not know-irig the Dean. Are you married? faidSwift. Yes.Sir, replied the taylor. And;who wears the breeches ? laid the Dean,My a~fe, anfwered the other.A gentleman one day gave his fer-vant a kick on the breech, upon whichthe fellow let a roofing f~t, his mafterwas, horribly offended, but the fervantfaid. Why, Sir, would you knock at adoor and have no body anfwer you.An Irifhman at Cheftrr, upon en¬quiring at his landlord how he couldget to London,and being told he mightgo in the waggon, he replied, No, ho¬ney, that won’t do, I am always fea-fick when I ride in a waggon.A Schoolmaftcr afking one of hisboys in a cold winter morning, whatwas Latin for cold; the boy hefitateda little What firrrah, faid he, can’tyou tell? Yes, yes, cried the boy, Ihave it at my finger-ends.