4THETRAVELSrANDAm ENTI RES OFWm. jlithgow,INEUROPE, ASIA, and AFRICA,DURINGNINETEEN YEARS.GLASGOW ,‘HINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.I S3.;theTRAVELS AND ADVENTURESOFWILLIAM LITHGOW.'. THE sufferings and perigrinations of this Scots-i man, who far out walked the late famous Cor-■yate, “seem,” says Mr. Granger, “to raise himalmost to the rank of a martyr, and a hero.” Hisibook being very scarce, and little known, a shortabridgment may be acceptable ; in which we shall,lin general, omit his description and insert onlyhis adventures, After making two voyages teethe. Orkney and Shetland islands, and walking overall Germany, Bohemia, Switzerland, and theLow Countries, our author visited Paris, wherehe resided ten months.From thence, on March 7th 1609, he set outon foot for Italy and in forty days passing through(Savoy, and over the Alps arrived at Rome.(There probably being too free and unguardedi in speech, and not observing the advice given toliMilton by Sir Henry Wotton, I pensierii strelI/I, ed it viso scioitc ; after a stay ofi twenty-eight days he could not have escaped the“blood sucking inquisitors,” most of whom werer, I'jvi •< fiivxal mu oi r4his own countrymen, had it not been for the as¬sistance of Robert Meggat, a Scotsman also,then residing in Burgo di Roma with the oldEarl of Tyrone, who concealed him three daysat the top of his lord’s palace, and on the fourthat midnight when all the streets and gates werewatched for him, conveyed him away, and leap¬ed the wall with him. He then visited Naples,Virgil’s tomb, &c. Having walked four timesfrom one end of Italy to the other, viz, fromVallese, the first town in Piedmont, to CafeBlanche in Calabria, he affirmed it to be 900 It¬alian miles in length, and in breadth 240, fromthe Adriatic coast to the Riviera of Genoa, bythe sea side, Campagna di Roma and the duchyof Spoleto, he returned to Loretto. Here he metwith a countryman named Mr. Js. Arthur, whosecompany was most acceptable to him. One day,as they were viewing the image of the Virgin, alusty young woman, busy at her beads, over¬powered by the heat of the throng fainted away ;at which the woman near her exclaimed, that“ our blessed lady had appeared to her.” im¬mediately she was carry’d out, and laid on thesteps that led from the chapel to the church door,some hundreds more saluting her with “ Saint,saint, O ever blessed saint!” This being Friday,the woman having travelled all night, to savethe expense of fish, had privately eaten a bither own cold meat, and drank half a buckale -i red wine in a tavern. At last said our author,“ Brother Arthur, I will go and open thatmoth-j er’s bosom.” He did so, and raising up her head,| a flood or vingarba, of sour wine, sprung downthe alabaster stairs, mixed with lumps of indi¬gested meat; at which the people being amazed| from the saint swore she was a devil; and, had not1 our travellers carried her in haste from the church1 to the tavern, they would doubtless have stonedher to death. Embarking in a frigate at Ancona.Arthur and Lithgow in three days arrived at Ven-1] ice, where as soon as they landed at St. Mark’sI Place, perceived a great crowd of people, and in!the midst of them a great smoke, inquiring thecause, they were told, that a grey-friar of theFranciscan order was burning alive at St. Mark’sPillar, for debauching fifteen noble nuns, andi| all within a year. Pressing forward, they came|| to the Pillar, just as half his body and his rightihand fell into the fire. This friar was forty-sixyears old, and had been confessor of that nunneryof Sancta Lucia five years. Most of these nunswere Senitors’ daughters Fifteen (all pre-: gnant) were sent home to their father’s palaces;I the lady prioress and the rest were banished foril ever; the nunnery was razed to the ground; the(5revenues were given to the poor, and the churchconverted into an hospital. Here our travellersseparated. Arthur returned homeward, andLithg-ow proceeded to Greece and Asia ; but hrstvisiting Padua, Verona, and Ferrara. At Paduahe staid three months learning Italian of one ofhis countrymen, Dr. John Wedderburn, an emi¬nent mathematician, who afterwards settled inMoravia. A t his return to A7enice, he embarkedin a carmoesalp Zara Nova, in Dalmatia; butmeeting with a violent storm, they were drivenfor shelter into the port of Pareuzo, in Istria.Thence sailing by the isles Briani, the ruins of Po-la, the isles Sangego, Osero, on the 8th day theyarrived at Zira where our traveller got a passageinto a Greek carmoesalo for Lesina, the largestisland in Adriatica. He afterwards sailed succes¬sively to Ragusa, and the island of Corfu, Nearthe island of St. Maure the vessel was attackedby a Turkish galley of Biserta, from which aftera long and doubtful fight they escaped by favourof a storm, and took shelter in Copholonia (for¬merly Ithaca, ) having seven of the crew killed,and eleven wounded; among the latter our tra¬veller, in his right arm. Over this island hetravelled, and on the second day hired a littleboat to carry him to Zant, (anciently Zacynthus, )twentyfive miles distant, where a Greek surgeon7cured his wound. He there embarked in a frigatefor Peterasso, (or Patras,) the capital of theMorea, where quitting the sea, he joined a car¬avan of Greeks bound for Athens, passingthrough Laconia, and the hilly and now barrencountry of Arcadia, encamping one night in theuninhabited villages of Argos and Mycenae ; andfindino; in short no remains of ancient Greece,but the name. In seven days he arrived atAthens from whence he took shipping for theisle of Serigo, where during his stay at Capsalo,the captain of that fortress having killed a priest,whom he- had found one night in a brothel, thegovernor of the island deposed and banished him.In the same boat Lithgow also embarked, andsailed to Candia, or Crete. Thiough this wholeisland he travelled twice, which no traveller inChristendom had done before. On setting outfor Canea, being informed of the danger of rob¬bers, he put his money in exchange, and hadscarce got twelve miles, when he was beset bythree Greeks and an Italian, who beat him cruelly,robbed him of all his clothes, and striped himnaked, adding many threats; till at length, theItalian perceiving he was a stranger, and couldnot speak the Cretan tongue, asked him in hisown language, where was his money ? He repli¬ed, he had only 80 byzantinos, which scarce8amounted to eightpence English Not creditingthese words, the robbers, searched all his clothesand budget, but found nothing except his linenand recommendatory letters from several princes,particularly the Doge of Venice, whose subjectsthey were : this moved the Italian to compassion,and he earnestly intreated the others to save ourtraveller’s life, at length they restored to him hispilgrim’s clothes and letters, but kept his bluegown and byzantinos, and as a passport gave,him a stamped piece of clay, to shew to any ofrheir companions, if he met them, the band con¬sisting of twenty. Travelling that day thirty-seven miles, he reached at night the miserablevillage of Pickehorno, where he could find neithermeat, drink, lodging, nor any refreshment. TheCandiots, a barbarous people thronging roundhim, seeming amaxed at his wanting both com¬pany and their language, a compassionate femalehaving privately made him signs that his deathwas concerted, he stole away from them in thenight, and lay till morning in a cave by the sea¬side hungry and thirsty, and his heart faintingin him.At sun-rising, he quitted his lurking place, andabout noon reached Canea, the second city ofCrete, anciently Cydon. While he was there,six gullies arrived fron Venice, in one of whichwas a young French gentleman, a protestant bornin Languedoc, who had been condemned by thesenate to the gallies for life, for being accessaryto the death of a young noble Venetian, in a quar¬rel concerning a courtezan. Having leave fromf his captain to come on shore with a keeper wear-! ing an iron bolt on his leg, our author commen¬ced an acquaintance with him, and greatly com-passionating his misfortune, (being at Venicei when the accident happened,) contrived his es¬cape at the hazard of his own life, by means ofan old Greek woman, his laundress, who lent himan old gown and a black veil for a disguse, Ac¬cordingly, Lithgow invited the keeper to a tav¬ern, where, with deep draughts of JLeatic, he in-i toxicated this Argus, and left him asleep. Then»! disburdening his friend of his irons, he clothedj| him in a female habit, and sent him out of thet: town, conducted by the Greek woman, and when(' past the guard and gate, our traveller followedl him with his clothes, and, interchanging them,) directed him over the mountains to a Greek con-f vent, where he might be entertained till the Mal-I tese gallies or men-of-war should touch there, oni| their way to the Levant.In his way back our author was met by twosoldiers of his nation, Smith and Hurgrave, whor were coming to inform him that the officers of10the gallies, and several soldiers were searchingthe city and the fields for him. Advising withthem how to reach the Julian monastery, St. Sal¬vador, where they lodged, they conducted himin at the eastern the least frequented gate ofthe city, where three other Englishmen of thegarrison were that day on guard, and with themhappened to be eight French soldiers, theirfriends, who also agreed to escort him. Nearhis lodgings, four officers and five galley soldiersian to seize him, when the English and Frenchdrawing their swords, desperately wounded twoof the officers. Meantime, a reinforcement com¬ing from the gallies, Smith, leaving the rest en¬gaged, ran with Lithgow to the monastery. Atlength the officers, of the garrison relieved theirown soldiers, and drove back the others to thegallies. Soon after, the general of the galliescame to the monastery, and examining our tra¬veller concerning the fugitive, he made such adefence that nothing could be proved againsthim. Nevertheless, he chose to remain in safe¬guard in the cloister till the gallies were gone.Being disappointed of a passage to the Archipe¬lago, Lithgow resolved to visit the city of Can-dia; and in his way passed by the famous havenand through the pleasant valley of Suda, by tnecity of Reshitnos, the labyrinth of Daffialus, and-IImount Ida ; near which, he disproved the asser-' tion of there being no venomous creature in Crete,by killing two serpents and a viper. Being dis¬appointed at Candia, he was forced to return toCanea the same way he went, where, soon after,an English renegado, named Wilson arrived fromTunis, in his way to Phodes ; and, after some con¬versation with his countrymen, the Englishsoldiers, hearing that Lithgow was a Scotsman,die spoke as follows. “ My elder brother, themaster of a ship, was killed at Brunt island inScotland, by one Keere; and though he was be¬headed, I have long since sworn to be revengedon the first Scotsman I should see or meet, and, therefore I am determined to stab this man tonight as he goes home to his lodgingdesiringtheir assistance, which two of them promised,but the other three refused, meantime Smithfound him at supper in a cutler’s house, where,acquainting him with this conspiracy, he was es¬corted to his lodging by Smith and three Italiansoldiers, passing by the ruffian and his confeder¬ates, who, seeing his treachery discovered, madehis escape.Smith having thus most eminently served him■ twice, first in freeing him from the danger of gal¬ley slavery, and now in saving his life, LithgowI resolved to return the obligation, by discharging12his debt to the captain, which was only forty-eightshillings Sterling and thereby procuring him hisliberty, after having served three captains fifteenyears. This our traveller happily accomplish¬ed, and embarked him for Venice.%Lithgow staid in Canea near a month, beforehe could procure a passage for the Archipelago,;• nd at last left the monastery he says, with re¬gret, as'the four friars his hosts, gave him fre¬quent and large draughts of malmsey, thoughoften against his will. Every night, too, theyforced him to dance with them; but their musicwas drunkenness, and these beastly swine wereevery night so drenched, that they had not powerto go to their beds, but where they fell, they laytill next morning. In short, during the twentydays of his being there, he never saw any of themtruly sober.In this island, he travelled on foot about 400miles, and, after a stay of fifty-eight days, he em¬barked in a fishing-boat for Milo, one of theCyclades, distant 100 miles.From Milo our traveller proceeded to Zephano,another small island, from whence Lucullus firsttransported marble to Rome; and to Angusa,where he was wind bound sixteen days, and allthat time was never in bed, but lodged on thestones in a little chapel the Greeks intreating13him not to enter their sanctuary, because he wasnot of their religion ; however, as the nights werelong and cold, he was forced every night to creepinto the midst of it to keep himself warm. Fromthence he went to Mecano, anciently Delos, thechief of the fifty-four Cyclades, where the custom| still continues of never suffering men to die, orI children to be born in it; but when the men aresick and the woman big-bellied they are sent toIlhena, two miles distant, Zea, Tino, and Pal-mosa, once Patmos, where St. John wrote hisRevelation, were the next islands which he visi-; ted ; and thence sailing to Nicaria, his vessel, in(sight of it was chaced by two Turkish galliotsI into a bay, where, leaving the loaded boat, he(and eight more fled to the rocks, from whence:.they annoyed the Turks with huge stones. The[imaster and two other old men were taken andnmade slaves, and the boat and goods seized. Ini bis way from Micaria to Sio, they were driven['by a storm into a creek between two rocks, wherelithe shore being shelfy and the anchors coming: home a great lake was made, and seven of theocrew drowned: the other eleven just before the[boat sunk, by hasty rowing reached a caverwithin the mountain; Lithgow disembarked theiilast, as the rest had sworn if he pressed to escapeiibefore they were all in safety they would throwI14him into the sea. Nothing was saved but hiscoffer made of reeds in which he carried his pa¬pers and linen, and held it always in his arms.In this cave, which was 30 paces long, they abodethree days without meat and drink, till, on thefourth, the tempest ceasing some fishing boats re¬lieved them. Seventeen other boats were castaway on this coast and not a man saved. Throughthis island Lithgow travelled with a thankfulheart to Sio the capital, where, passing by an oldcastle, he was told that Homer’s sepulchre wasstill extant there; and being desirous to see it,he descended by sixteen steps into a dark cell,and through that to another square room, wherehe saw7 an ancient tomb on which were engravensome ancient Greek letters, which he could notunderstand. By Mitylene, or Lesboa he nextsailed in a carmoesalo to Negropoint (of old Eu¬boea,) and in their w'ay they were chased by twoTurkish galliots into a long creek, wliere theTurks were deterred from attacking them, by bon¬fires made by the Greeks for six succeedingnights, our traveller, as a stranger, being exposedevery night to stand centinel in the midst of frostand snow, on the top of a high promontory,which however invited his mule to bew7ail his toil¬some life, his solitary wandering, and his long dis- ;tance from his native country.15On the 7 ill day, two Venetian gentlemen, whoia<l been ten years banished for murder, camelown to see them with two servants, all wellarmed ; and hearing our traveller’s complaints a-^ainst the Greeks for detaining his budget, andForcing him to endanger his life for their good,they soundly drubbed the master, and forced himto restore Lithgow’s things ; carrying him withinive miles of the town where they then resided,dndly entertaining him ten days, and, at his de¬parture, made him a present of forty gold se¬quins ; the first gift he ever received in all histravels.From thence he proceeded to Salonica in Ma¬cedonia, and then sailed along the Thessalianshore, saw the “ Two topped hill” Parnassus,and a little more east, a ruinous village and cas¬tle, once the city of Thebes. In three daysfrom Ralonica he arrived at Tenedos, when meet¬ing with two French merchants of Marseillesbound to Constantinople he and they resolvingto view Troy, hired a janizary for their conduc¬tor and guard, and a Greek for their interpre¬ter. Landing there, they saw many relicts ofaid walls, and many ruined tombs some of wFichwere pointed out to them as the the tombs of[Hector, Ajax, Achilles, Troilus, &c. and alsothose in Hecuba, Cressida, and other Trojan16dames. J'liey were shown also the ruins of KingPriam’s palace, and where old Anchises dwelt.On a piece of a high wall, at the N. E. cornerof Troy, on: author found three pieces of rustedmoney ; two of which he afterwards gave to theyounger brothers of the Duke of Florence, thenstudying at Pratolina ; the third and fairest, witha large picture on one side, he bestowed, at Aixin province, on his countryman Mr. Strachanthen mathematician to the Duke of Guise, whopresented it to his Lord.On discharging their covenant with the jan¬izary, who was not contented with the formercondition, the Frenchmen objected to pay thesame that Lithgow did, the Turk belabouredthem both with a cudgel till the blood sprangfrom their heads, and compelled them to doublehis wages. Such is the extortion of those ras¬cals, who regard Christians no more than dogs;and it is always best for a travaller to contentthem at first, or he will be forced with blows, topay twice as much. At Sutos and Abydos, sofamed for the loves of Flero and Leander, butnow called the castles of Gallipoli (at presentthe Dardenelles,) they arrived in a small frigate,where, two days after, eighty Christians, slaves,having murdered their captian, and the otheiTurks, and run away with the galley, passed the17straits at mid-night, -with little hurt, thoughthe cannon thundered incessantly for two hours;and at last arrived in the road to Zante. An¬other galley attempting the same the year fol¬lowing : the poor slaves, in passing, w'ere sowounded and galled with the great shot, and thegalley ready to sink that they were forced to runon shore: where, being apprehended, they weremiserably put to death.Leaving the Frenchman with a Greek bar-oer. Lithgow embarked in a Turkish frigatefor Constantinople, “ a little world, which hedescribes as yielding at a distance such an out¬ward splendour to the amazed beholder, of good¬ly churches, stately towers, gallant steeples &c.• that the world cannot equal it.” At his landingI1however, he “ had a hard welcome for on leav¬ing the boat the master saying Adio Christiano,four French rengenadoes standing on the quayand hearing these words fell desperately uponhim, blaspheming the nameof Jesus, and throwingi him down, beat him cruely, so that had not hisfriendly Turks leaped out of their boat and re-leived him, they would doubtless have murderedhim. The other infidels standing by, said tohim. “ Behold what a Saviour thou hast, whenthose that were Christians, now turned Mahom¬etans, cannot abide nor regard the name of thy18God !” Entering into a Greek lodging, he wasmuch eased of his blows, by their anointing himwith divers oils, and kindly received and refresh¬ed gratis, because he had suffered so much forChrist’s sake. Next day he went to pay hisduty to Sir Thomas Glover, the English am¬bassador, who courteously entertained him threemonths in his house“ A more complete gentleman,” he says. “ henever met with, nor one in whom true worth didmore illustrate virtue.” His mother was a Polishlady who coming from Dantzick to London wasdelivered of him at sea. Afterwards he wasbrought up at Constantinople, and spoke andwrote the Selavonian tongue perfectly; andthence returning to London he was the first am¬bassador sent there by king James L after hiscoming to the crown of England. The duke ofMoldavia, being deprived of his principalities byAchmet was received and chargeably maintainedby Sir Thomas, in his house, for two years, buthis embassy being expired and Sir Paul Pindarbeing expected in his place this prince stole awayfrom him, turned Turk, and was circumcised re¬ceiving only, for his dukedom, a palace, and ayearely pension of 121,000 gold sequins for life.He owed the ambassador about 151,000 half of19which in half an year, he recovered the other halthe was forced to forgoe.The winter being’ expired, Lithgow sailed in' an English ship to Smyrna, and thence toRhodes, where he saw the remains of the Col-lossus, and to Limisso, in Cyprus, from whencehe went with an interpreter to visit Nicosia, thecapital; and, on his return, meeting four Turks,they would have his mule to ride upon, whichhis interpreter refused N they pulled him off itsback, beat him pitifully, and left him almost dead.His companion fled and escaped; and had notsome Greeks accidently come by and relievedhim, he must have perished. He sailed fromthence to Tripoli, in Syria, and while he waitedthere for a caravan to Aleppo, being mindful tovisit Babylon, he agreed with three Venetianmerchants to go a days journey to seethe cedarsof Libanus. Ascending the mountain, theirguide mistaking their way amidst an intricate pathof the rocks, two of their asses fell over a bank,and broke their necks; and had they not met, bychance, with a Christian Amaronite, they musthave been lost among the rocks, heaps of snow,and violent torrents. At the place where thecedars grow, they saw but twenty-four in all;and nine miles eastward, there are seventeenmore. He was there shown the tomb of Joshua,20all of one stone, seventeen feet long, ana was;kindly entertained by the Bishop, or Patriarchat Eden, and the Ainaronites, or Nazaritans, ofthe other villages.Returning to Tripoli, he set out with a cara¬van of Turks for Aleppo, but before his arrivalthere, the caravan for Babylon, to his great griefwas departed: but, being told that it staid atBeershack on Euphrates, on account of someArabs who waylaid them in the desarts, he hiredajannizary and three soldiers to overtake them.But though they had stayed they were gone threedays before he got there. Beershack is bysome supposed to be Padenarium. To Aleppo,:therefore, he was forced to return. While hewas there, the Bashaw, having the year before'rebelled against the grand Signor, he sent hima chiaux and janizaries in an embass, proffering,that if he would acknowledge his rebellion, andfor that treason send Achmet his head, his eldestson should inherit his possessions and Bashaw-ship ; otherwise the Sultan would come in personand utterly eraze him and all his from the faceof the earth. The messengers met the Bashawon horseback, accompanied by his two sons and500 horsemen. Hearing this he dismounted con¬sulting with his sons and friends, he and they con¬cluded, that it was best for him being an old man21iO die to save his race from destruction and pre¬serve his son in his authority and inheritance.This done, he went to prayer; and taking leaveof them all and sitting down on his knees, thechiaux struck off ids head, and put it Into a boxto carry to Constantinople. The corpse washonourably buried at Aleppo, of which Lithgowwas an eye-witness.And immediately the chiaux by proclama-t tion, fully invested the son in his father’s lands,I offices &£.Being disappointed going with the caravan toI Babylon in the autumn, as has been already re¬lated, our traveller returned to Aleppo where heH staid till the spring, when he joined a caravan ofArmenians and Turks, well guarded, bound toJerusalem, hiring a mule from a Turk to carryIhis victuals.Their number was about 600 Armenians,Christian pilgrims, men and women, 600 Turkstrafficking for their own business, 100 soldiersthree chiauses, and six janizaries. The confusionof this multitude he describes as most grevious,on account of the extreme heat and scarcity ofwater, and narrow stony passages in which theyoften fell one over another in great heaps, andthe Christians were often well beaten by theconducting Turks. The owner of his mule was22for throe days very favorable to him, in order tohave a share (he found) of his tobacco, of whichhe then freely gave him a pound, which he al¬ways carried with him, to procure the good-willof the Turks. At his walking, which he oftendid at dismounting, to streach his legs that werestiffned by a stumbling beast they laughed andmocked him, it being their custom, at alightingto sit down immediately, and fold their feet un¬der them. On the ninth day they arrived atDamascus, and were lodged three days there ina great khan, at the grand signior’s yxpence; aprivilege allowed to all strangers who come wutha caravan.On Palm Sunday, in the morning, 1612, thecaravan entering Jerusalem, and at the gate, theywere all searched for arms and ammunition.The Amenians were obliged to deliver up theirwepons, and Lithgow’s name w'as written in theclerks book, that his tribute for the gates, andfor seeing the sepulchre, might before his depart¬ure, be, paid together. The gates were of ironinwardly, and above each gate w'as planted brazencannon.Taking his leave of his compainons, wholod o-ed with their own Patriarch, our author wasmet and received in the streets by the guardian,and twelve friars, each carrying a lighted waxcandle, and one for him also, and singing TeDeutn all the way to their Monastery, they great¬ly rejoiced that a Christian had come from sucha far country as Scotland to visit Jerusalem.But, when they knew afterwards, that he was noPopish Catholic, they sorely repented of theirlabour. He found there ten branks, just comefrom Venice, six of then Germans, and also goodProtestants, who were wonderfully pleased tohear him flatly tell the guardian, that he was noRoman Catholic, nor never thought to be so.After staying some days at Jerusalem, and see¬ing every thing worthy of his notice, he madethe best of his way to Joppa, where, after seeingthe remains of the house in whichs Peter fell intoa trance, and saw heaven opened, he embarkedin a small vessel for Alexandria. He arrivedthere in safety, and soon sailed for his nativeland.ANECDOTE OF HENRY IV. OF FRANCE.- Henry had seduced the daughter of an officerat Rochelle, which had disgraced a worthy fam¬ily, and given great offence to the people of thatcity. Just befete a battle, when prayers weregoing to be read in front of the line, a protestantminister, his chaplain, took the liberty to remon-2 Istrate to him, that he could not expect that theDivine Being- would favour his arms, if he didnot previously ask pardon for this offence, andrepair the scandal which he had given by themost public satisfaction. The King heard thisremonstrance with the greatest humility, fell up¬on his knee, implored forgiveness of God, anddesired all to witness his contrition, and his sol¬emn assurance that, if Providence spared his life,he would repair as much as possible, the injuryhe had done. All who were present at this un¬common scene, were melted into tears; and therewas scarce one who would not have devoted hislife for a prince, who thus evinced such instantreadiness to do justice to his inferiors.