THEInnocent Maid in Bedlam.To which art added,gildehoy.CAPTAIN DELANY’S RAMBLE,WITH THELADY’S A N S V/ E R.GLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. ROBERTSON,Saltn.arket, i yet).( a )W vK. rf>- A- .4*. jt\ Jr, <!S. *%, jfr. *' it*. A'The Innocent M ^1)3 in BEDLAM.OPity an inr^ocent maider?.in Brdlam l lie confin’d.With farrow' and grief overlaiden,snd forely difturbed in mind ;My lo?* he was furely preft from me»they’ve lent my love over the main;And 1 (hall never be happy,till Billy comes home again.Prefs-mafiers, Why are you fo cruel:to fend my dear creature away.Oh ! Why do you feek my ruin ?a fad. yea, unfottunate day:In Bedlam here, l am lamenting,in ihow’rs of 'ears I do complain.For why, l ne’er Ihall be contented,till Billy comes home again.My fngw white hand's ft all toil,in heading each fiivcr draw',Who knows hut in a'little time,i may fet cut a man of war!Yea, rigging with f?.bles mid anchors,with which J fhai! crofs the main:O ten thoufand lives will 1 venture,to bring my love back again.I’ll drake cd each iron fetter,and lighten my heavy lieait, •And prefer.tly fend him a letter,and teil him what ppin and fmart^L*u y cauied by hij abfence,which makes me in tears complain*For why, I fliali never be happy,till 8ihy comes home again.My heart it has more upon it,than a maid is able to bear;I’ll fit down and fing a fonnetof Billy my only dear:Each night l dream that I’m with himin tempeft of wind and rain ;But O if [ could but fee him,then I fhould be happy again.Now Bedlam I will fplit afunder,hark, hark how the chamber rings*The eagle’s neft I will plunder,and borrow her fpreading wings:I’ll mount the wide air for my jewel,and fwiftly fly over the main jThough fortune at prefent be cruel*l hope 1 ihall fee him again.As flic in tears was lamenting,the young man a letter had penn’d*And lent it away to his difeontented,by the hand o: a faithful friend:It was writ by thine own dear jewel,I’d have tbcc no more to complain $Though fortune at prefent be cruel,! hone that we fha*! meet again.What though I am forc’d from my nation,I’ll leave thee my heart behind.My Sorrow I’ll bear with patience,and Strive to content my mind :De^r Bet, my love, make thyfclf eafy,thy fighing is all in vainI’ll do my endeavour to pleale thee,when I come home againHaving read out the letter the kifs’d it,and trembling with fad furprize;Ten thoufand times over fhe bleit it,with tears in her youthful eyes:Alas! how in tears fh* lamented,and oft-times will figh and complain,And cry ! ihali ne'er be contented,till Billy comes home again.One moment her hands She is wringing,for the Infs of her only dear,The very next moment Ihe's finging,juft ready to pierce the air ;Be bind to my true love, dear Keptune,con dm him fafe over the main,For l fhall never be happytill Billy comes home again4 -j. 4.—r  !- ■; i- -t )- 4—+■ H i- -f !- -f h -f—t-G 1 L D E R O Y.AH CM01 is! could 1 now but fitas imconcern’d as when,your mfant beauty cou’d begetno bappinefs jnor p-tin,When I this dawning did admire,and prais’d the coming day,I little thought that rifi.ig firewou’d take my reii. away.Your charms in harmlcfs childhood layas metals in a mine ;Age from no face takes more awaythan youth conceal’d in thine:But as your charms infenfiblyto their perfection preis’d ;So love as unperceiv’d did fly,and center’d in my breatt.iMy paflion with her beauty grew,while Cupid, at rny heart.Still as his mother favour’d you,threw a new flaming dartEach gloried in her wanton part;to make a lover, heEmploy’d the utmoft of his art;to make a beauty, fhe.j'W' f- -v r-r 4~v -f-f"W-*»+ V+Captatm DELANY’S RAMBLE,tween Caihil and Thurlifh,^ l met a fair maiden,!As I was a walkingAlong the high-way :I laid her down foitly,iln a fine dewy morning,O! are you dillraftedYoung man lire did fay4■    \That very day fe'nnight,I met this fair maiden,As I was a walkingAlong the fame way,Shew drew very nigh me,And (hook hands molt kindly.'With Rifles moil IweetlyShe wept and did fay;Here’s a letter from my fatherAnd bleflings from my motherAnd ’tis all for the loveThat 1 bear unto you :You fhall have your bargain,And a thoufand pounds iteriing,O! love, I’ll be your darling.Your joys to renew.I like well your faying.My own pretty maiden;Yea, and I could liveFor ever with you :But T am contracted,Thefe five quarters paffed,Tp John Bailey’s daughter,in the county of Meo.O don’t be fo cruel,My own deareft jewel!For who fhall 1 fatherMy fweet baby to ?My name's Captain Delany,No blufhes {hall fhame me,Ycu will finJ me in Straw-belly,I in-the county of Meo.h m t ^ Ct) # Ct) # it) m Ct) if t ^ Cl)THE L A.D f 3 ANS IVER.Ol Flatterinpi: DelanyWill no Wufn'es /ha:ne thee,Since by your dece'nfulnefsI am undone :JlFo maid lhail come nigh me,put as they pals by me,They look on me ftylieAr.d my company (hun.Young women take warning.By this my down falling,&nd don’t let young mens’baife Sattering tongues.Ever come nigh you30 as to dellroy you?cr t;hen they’d demy you.When thus they have done;i Now farewel falfe lover,My life it doth hover,(’’or my deadly wounds,1 here’s no cure I can find.Jut while others are courting,\nd young ones are fporting,Te you fliil refortingTo this valley vc mine.( 9 )It was in fweet July,When flowrrs were blooming.This yourg man and ITogether did meet;Then with his ir.treating,Set try heart a aching.And with h;s lies makingCaufes me now to weep.O! death, come and eafe me.Since grief it hath feiz’d me.The wound which I bear,No mortal can cure :My fpirits are dying,My breath it is flying.My heart it is breaking,O ! the pains 1 ensure.O young man, molt cruel,You have wrought my ruin.In cropping my flowers.Young, tender and green.Delays will difeover.I’m a wounded lover,Since you difeoverWhat now. you have feenGLASGOW,Printed by J. & M. ROBERT SONSaltnaarEvk., t