PUN UPON F U BI:ORjLi El 1? SSTHE TAILOR.IN TWO PARTS.WITH A SELECTIONOFENTERTAINING ANECDOTES.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.ITHE MERRY TRICKSOS’LEPER THE TAILOR.Leper’s father lived in a village about sixmiles from Glasgow, and died when he was Ibut very young; he left a widow and threechildren, two daughters and a son; Leperbeing the youngest, was greatly idolized byhis mother, who was a good soft-naturedwoman, very industrious, and followed thebleaching oi'cloth.As Leper grew up he grew a very mis¬chievous boy, playing many tricks on theneighbourhood, such as tying cats to dogstails, breaking hens leg’s, stopping peopleslums, or chimney-tops; so that his poormother wTas sadly vexed with complaints-Igainst him.To get him kept from mischief, she pre¬vailed with a Tailor to take him an appren-lice; he settled, and was very peaceable forsome time, until he got as much of his tradeon his linger ends as he might pass for ajourneyman, and then he was indifferentwhether he staid with his master or not;his mistress g’ave him but very little meatwhen he wrought at home, so he liked best3to be in other houses, where he got meatand diversion.Leper being resolved on revenge againsthis mistress for her thin kail, no kitchen,and little bread; for though flesh was boiledin the pot none for poor Leper and his master,but a little bit on Sundays, and all the boneswere kept and put in the pot, to make thebroth through the week. Leper perceivedalways when she took of the pot, she turnedher back and took out the flesh, and set iton a shelf in her own bed-room ; one nightafter work, he steals out a pan, cuts apieceof flesh out of a dead horse, and then goesto a lime kiln, and boils it; next day hismaster being from home, his landlady andhim being in the house, after she had set ofthe pot as usual, and taken out her bit ofgood beef, he goes out for some time andthen comes in, saying, the minister’s lass iswishing to see you, to go directly and speakto her mistress. Off she goes in all haste,Leper runs and takes away her bits of goodmeat, and lays down his horse flesh; andknowing she would return in a passion, andsit down with a soss in her cushion chair, asshe used, he takes a large pin, and staps itstraight through the cushion with its headon the chair and the point to her backside.So in she comes in a rage, and down shesits with all her weight on the pin point,4and sbt* roars out murder! murder ! for shewas sticket in the a—e: the neighbourscame running in, and Leper went out withins bit of good beef, leaving the wives todoctor his landlady’s doup, as they pleased;he still denied the doing of it, and his masterbelieved it' might happen accidently, butthe houdie was very oft to be had before itwas got hale again; and his landlady byeating of the horse beef, took such a loath¬ing at flesh, that Leper .and his master gotall the beef ever after, and his landladyturned one of the kindest mistresses a pren¬tice could wish for.There was a neighbour wife on whomLeper used to play tricks sometimes, forwhich she came and complained to his mas¬ter and had him severely beaten severaltimes, Leper resolved to be revenged onher, so one night he came to the backside>f the house, (no one being in but herself)and took up a big stone, and runs along therough wall with all his strength, which roa r¬ed like thunder in the inside of the house,and frighted the wife so, that she thoughtthe house was tumbling down about her ears,and she ran out and sat down at a distance,looking every minute when the house wouldfall down, till her husband came home andpersuaded her to go in, to whom she toldthe above story; ‘ bout tout, daft tapie,’ said5he, (the house will stand these hundredyears.’ Leper knowing they were both in,comes and plays the same trick over again,which also frightened the goodinan so much,that lie cried out—‘ run Maggy, run, formy heart plays pitty patty.’ And theywould not lodge in the house any more, tillthe masons convinced them of its suffi¬ciency.There was another neighbour who had asnarling cur dog, which bit Leper’s leg;Leper resolved to be revenged on the deg,and so one night he catches the dog, andcarries him to the kirk where the rope of thebell hung' on the outside, so with his garterlie tied the dog’s fore foot to the rope, andleft him hanging; the dog strugling to getfree set the bell a ringing, which alarmedthe whole village, every one cried out(won-derfid fire! wonderful fire! the devil is ring-ing the bell.’ When they saw the blackcolly hang' at the rope, 1 trow it Set theminister and all the people to their prayers :but Leper fearing he would be detected byhis garter, came to the minister’s side, andasked the reverend gentleman what was thematter; indeed my bairn, said he, ’tis thedeil ringing the kirk bell; says Leper, I’llgo and see him, for I never saw the devil;the minister cried stop the mad laddie, butLeper ran and loosed the doer, crying it’s6such a man’s dog, which had the rope in itsteeth; they all cried out, i the deil’s i’ thecur, the deil’s i’ the dog',’ then took up stonesand felled poor colley, and the devil got theblame, of making the dog ring the bell.—This spread Leper’s fame, for being one ofthe wisest and most courageous tailors thatwas in all the kingdom; and many shakingtheir heads, said, i it was a pity he was atailor, but a captain or general of an army,as the devil could not fear him.’After this a farmer in the neighbourhoodhearing the fame of Leper, how he hadfrig’hted the deil frae being a bellman, sentfor him to an alehouse, and drank with himvery heartily, and told him lie was sadlyborne down by a spirit of jealousy againsthis wife: and a suspicion of her being too freewith a servant lad he had before; and if hewould keep it a secret and learn him to find itout, he would give his mother a load of meal,to which Leper agreed; so he gave thee poorsupposed cockold instructions how to behave.So home he g'oes, and feins himself very sick,and every day worse and worse, takingdeath to him ; blesses his three small child¬ren, and charges his wife not to marryuntil his children could do something forthemselves, this hypocritical woman takes acrying, Aha! marry, she would never mar¬ry ! no no there should never a man lie by7my side, or kiss my lips, after thee, my amdear lamb Johnny. Then he acts the deadman as well as he possibly could, the neigh¬bours were called in, and he’s fairly o’erseen,as the old saying is, before good neigh¬bours. The sorrowftd widow made sadlament, wrung her hands and tore her hair.—The reverend women about began to dressthe corpse, asked her for a shirt. Ay, ay,said she, he has twa new linen sarks, andthere is an auld ane in the bottom o’ thekist, that nae body can wear, ony thingsgood enough for the grave; well, saidthey, we must have some linen for a wind¬ing sheet, a weel, quo’ she, 1 ha’e twa cuto’ linen i’ the kist neuk, but there’s a pareo’ auld linen sheets, hol’d i’ the middle,may do well enough, I had need to be care-fu’, I’m a poor widow the day, wi’ three sma’bairns.Well, the corpse is dressed, and laid onthe tap of the big chest, while neighbours| sat by her condoling her misfortune, and( how the funeral raisins were to be provided,| said one the coffin must need be seen aboutfirst. Ay ay, he has some new deals in thebarn, he bought them to make a bed o’,but we’ll no break them, there’s the auldj barn door, and the caff kist will do wellI enough, ony thing’s gude enough to gangto the grave wi’; but O quo’ she send for8Sandy, my honest auld servant, and he’]lsee every thing right done; I’ll tell himwhere he’ll get siller to do any thing wi’,he’s the lad that will not see me wrang’d;then Sandy comes wrying his face, andrubbing his eyes. O Sandy, there’s a sadalteration here, and ba-a she cries like abitten calf, O sirs, will ye gang a’ butt thehouse till I tell ye what to do; butt tboywent, and there she fell a kissing of Sandy,'and said, now, my dear, the auld chatteringghaist is awa and we’ll g'et our will o’ ither;he as haining of every thing as ye can, forthou kens it’s a’ thy ain; but the corpse’sister and some other people coming in, benthey came to see the corpse, lifts up thecloth oil his face, and seeing him all in apour of sweat, said heigh he’s a bonny corp,and a lively like colour. When he could nolonger contain himself to carry on the joke,hut up he got among them, a deal of peopleran for it, and his wife cried out, O my deardo you ken me? Ay you base jade andwhore, better than ever I did. Jumps onthe floor, gets his staff and runs after Sandy,and catches him in the fields, a little fromthe house;—ate and drank with his sisterand neighbours who came to see his corpse,and poor Sandy went home with a skin fellof terror, and a sorting of sore bones, took asore fever and died a few days aftei, so he9g-ot quit of his cockolder, nnd Leper’s motherg-ot tier load of meal.Leper’s mother was a careful industriouswife, but as the bye-word is, 4 a working-mother makes a dally daughter,’ and so ithappened here, for she had two gleakit slutsof daughters, that would do nothing but liein their bed in the morning-, till, as the say¬ing is, c the sun was like to burn a hole intheir backsides.’ The old woman, who wasbleaching some cloth, was very early atwork in the mornings, and Leper’s patiencebeing worn out with the laziness of his two-sisters, he resolved to play a trick on them,lor their reformation, so he goes and gets amortcloth, and spread it on the bed abovethem, and sends the dead bell through thetow-n, inviting the people next day at fouro’clock afternoon to the burial of his twosisters, for they had died suddenly; thisbrought all the neighbouring wives in, whoone after another lifted up the mortcloth,and said, with a sigh, they’ve gone to theirrest, a sudden call indeed! Their aunthearing of this sudden news, came runningin all haste, and coming where the jades’mither was at work, and was ignorant of thestory, she cries out, Fye upon ye, woman,fye upon ye! What’s the matter, sister,says she, what’s the matter ! I think youmight let your wark stand for a’e day, when;10your daughters are baith lying corpse. Mybairns corpse ! I am certain they went tobed hale and fair last night. But I tellyou, says the other, the dead bell has beenthro’ warning the folks to the burial, thenthe mother cries out, O the villian ! O thevillian that he did not send me word.—Scthey both ran, and the mother as soon asshe entered the house, flies to the bed, cry¬ing, O my bairns, my dear bairns; onwhich the sluts rose up in a consternation,to the great surprise of the beholders, andthe great mortification of the girls, whothought shame to set their noses out of doors,and to the great diversion of the wholetown.Leper and his master went to a gentle¬man’s house to work, where there was asaucy house-keeper, who had more ignor¬ance and pride than good sense and man¬ners ; she domineered over her fellow .servantsin a tyrannical manner. Leper resolved tomortify her pride; so he finds an ant’s nest,and takes their white eggs, grinds them toa powder, and puts them into the dish her? upper sowns was to be put in. After shehad taken her supper, as she was coveringthe table, the imnock powder began tooperate, and she let a great f— : well doneMargaret, said the Laird, your a— wouldtake a cautioner. Before she got out of the11chamber door she let fly another crack;then she goes to order her fellow servant togive the Laird his supper, but before shecould give the necessary directions, she gavefire again, which set them all a laughingshe runs into a room herself, and there shplayed away her one gun battery so fast,that you would have thought she had beenbeseiging the Havannah. The Laird andLady came to hear the fun, they were liketo split their sides at proud Maggy. Sonext morning she left her place, to the greatsatisfaction of all her fellow servants.PART II.Leper’s landlady became very harsh tohis master, and very often abused him ex¬ceedingly sore with her tongue and hands,and always called upon him for more money,and to have all the money in her keeping;which Leper was sorry for. It so happen¬ed on a day that the tailor had got a heartydrubbing both with tongue and tongs, thathe pouched his thimble and was going tomake a queen of her: when she saw that,she cried out, O! will you leave a poor tenderdying woman. But Leper knowing thecause of her ill nature better than his master12did, advised him to take her on a line day,like a mile out of town, and give her cT, walk,and he would stay at home and study aremedy for her disorder. —Away they bothgo; but as she was always complaining forwant of health, and that she was very weak,she cried frequently out, O ! ’tis a cryingsin to take a woman in my condition out o’era door. During their absence, Leper goesand searches the bed, and below the bolstergets a bottle of rare whisky, of which hetakes a hearty pull, and then pisses in it tomake it up; gets a halfpenny worth ofsnuff, and puts it in also, shakes all to¬gether, and so sets it in its place again.—Home they came, and she was exceedinglydistressed as a woman could be, and criedout, i^ was a horrid thing to take her out ofthe house. The tailor seeing her so bad,thought she would have died, ran as fast ashe could for a dram, but she in her hypoc¬risy pretended she could not take it, andcalled on him to help her to bed, into whichhe lays her; she was not well gone whenshe fell to her bottle, taking two or threehearty gluts, then she roars out murder,I’m poisoned, I’m poisoned. Docking andpurging began, and the neighbours werecalled in; she lays her blood upon poorLeper, and tells how such an honest womanbrought her a’e bottle as another was done,13and the murdering loon had stolen it andput in a bottle of poison instead of it. Lep¬er took to his heels, but was pursued andcarried before a justice of the peace, wherehe told all he had done, which made thejustice laugh heartily at the joke; arid thetailor’s wife was well purged from her feign¬ed sickness, laziness, and cursed ill nature;for always when she began to curl her nosefor the future, the tailor had no more to say,but Maggy mind the bottle.Leper was working with a master-tailorin Glasgow, who hungered his men; andone morning, just when breakfast was setbn the table, in comes a gentleman to tryon a suit of clothes; the master beingobliged to rise desired the lads to say thegrace themselves. Every one refused it,and put it to his neighbour, till Leper un¬dertook it, and said with an audible voice,that the stranger gentleman might over¬hear him as follows:—£ Och, hoch ! we area parcel of poor beastly bodies, and we areas beastly minded; if we do not work weget nothing to eat; yet we are always eat¬ing and always fretting; singing and halfstarving is like to be our fortune; scartingsand scrapings are the most of our mouth¬fuls. We would fain thank thee for ourbenefactors are not worthy the acknow¬ledging;—heyfj Amen.’ The gentleman'i4lauglied till liis sides were like to Imrst, andgava Leper half-a-crov/n to drink.Leper was not long done with his ap-' prenticeship till he set up for himself, andgot a journeyman and an apprentice, wascoming into very good business, and hadhe restrained his roguish tricks, he mighthave done very well. He and his lads be¬ing employed to work in a farmer’s house,where the housewife was a great miser, andnot very cleanly in making meat, andsneeveled through her nose greatly whenshe spoke.—In the morning, when she went Ito make the potage, she made a fashion ofwashing the pot, which to appearance seem¬ed to him to have been among* the first thathad been made; then sets it before the firetill she went to the Avell, in which timeLeper looking* into it, sees two great holesstapped with clouts,'he takes up his g'oose,and holds it as high as his head, then letsit drop into the pot, which knocked out thebottom of it; presently in comes the wifewith the water, and pours it into the pot,which set the fireside all in a dam, for stillas she poured in, it ran out: the wife beingshort-sighted, or what they call sand blind,looks into the pot, holds up both her handsand cries, 4 Losh preserve me, sirs, for thegrip atween the twaholes is broken.’ SaysLeper, the pot was old enough; but do you15not ken that tailors potage is heavier thanother mens. Indeed lad I believe it, hutthey say ye’re a warlock; its Wednes¬day all the world o’er, and a waefu’ Wed¬nesday to me indeed, my pot might ha’eserved me this fifty year, a sae wad ite’en.This sport diverted Leper and his ladsthrough the day; and after supper, know¬ing he was to g'et some dirty bed, as thecows and the people lived all in one apart¬ment, he choose rather to go home; andknowing the moon was to rise a little aftermidnight, he sat by the fire, told them manya line story to drive away the time, andbade the wife make the bed to see how itmight be: to save candle she made it inthe dark, directly on the door behind wherethey sat, shaking down two bottles of straw;a calf which chanced to be lying on thatplace, and which the wife did not notice wascovered with the straw, and the bed clothesspread over it. The most of the family be¬ing in bed, the wife told them to go to bedalso, but Leper knowing of the calf, saidI’ll make my bed come to me, on which thewife began to pray for herself and all thatwas in the house; so up he gets his elwand,and gives, a stroke on the bed which causedthe brute to rise, and not seeing where togo, it fell a crying and turned round, which1Gset the whole house a roaring* out murder intheir own tongue. The gnodwife ran tothe bed above the g*oodman, and the wholefamily cried out, not knowing* what it was;but Leper and his two lads whipt off theblankets, and the brute ran in among* therest unperceived; then Leper lighted a can¬dle, and all of them g*ot out of bed, paidLeper for his work, and more if he pleased,and begged him to g*o away, and takethe devil with him. So home he went,but never was employed by that wife anymore.Leper had a peal of the best customersboth in town and country; so one time hehad occasion to go to the parish of Inc bin an,to make a wedding suit for a gentleman,after they were finished he desired drinkmoney for his lads, which the gentlemanrefused: Leper resolved to be even withhim, so he goes to the hay loft where thegroom slept, and takes his stockings,breeches, and jacket, sewed them together,and stufts them full of hay; makes a head,puts a rope about the neck, and hangs it ona tree, opposite to the lairds window; thengoes to the laird and tells him that hisgroom had hanged himself, and that if hewould open his window he would see himhanging; the laird was struck with aston-'ishment, and knew not what to do; Leper17advises him to bury him privately. Thelaird said he had not a servant he couldtrust, so begged Leper to do it. Leper re-'fuses, till the laird promises him a load ofmeal, then Leper pulls out all the hay outof the groom’s clothes; goes and gets hisload of meal, and sends it to Glasgow,—then goes to the groom, and says, lad thymaster is wanting thee. So the lad in allhaste runs to see what his master wanted,the laird no sooner saw him open the door,than he cried out, Avoid thee Satan, avoidthee Satan ! The lad says, what’s the mat¬ter? Did not 3011 hang yourself this morn¬ing? Lord forbid ! said the lad. The lairdsays if thou he an earthly creature, takethat tankard and drink : which he did; thensays he to his master, Leper called me up,and said you wanted me in all haste. Ho,ho, said the laird, I find out the story now,if I had Leper I would run my sword thro’him; but Leper before that was gone forGlasgow with his meal.Leper was in use to give his lads theirSunday’s supper, which obliged him to stayfrom the kirk in the afternoon, lie havingneither wife nor servant maid; so one Sun¬day afternoon as he was cooking his pot,John Mucklecheek, and James Puff-and-blaw, two civileers, having more zeal thanknowledge, came upon him, and said.—18What’s the matter, sir, you go not to thekirk? Leper replied, I’m reading my bookand cooking my pot, which I think is awork of necessity. Then says the one tothe other, don’t answer that graceless fellow,we’ll make him appear before his betters;so they took the kail pot, and puts a staffthrough the bools, and bears it to the Clerk’schamber. Leper who was never at a lossfor invention, goes to the Principal of theCollege’s house, no body being at home buta lass roasting a leg- of mutton; Lepersays, my dear, Avill you go and bring mea drink of ale, and I’ll turn the spit tillyou come back. The lass was no soonergone, than he runs away with the leg ofmutton, which served his lads and him fortheir supper. When the Principal camehome, he was neither to hand nor to bindlie was so angry; so on Monday he goesand makes a complaint to the Lord Provost,who sends two officers for Leper, who cameimmediately. My Lord asked him how hedared to take away the Principal’s mutton?Leper replied, how dared your civileers totake away my kail pot ? I’m sure there isless sin in making a pot full of kail, thanroasting a leg of mutton, law makers shouldnot be law breakers, so I demand justice onthe civileers. The Provost asked him whatiustice he would have? says he, make them19carry the pot back again; and to the Prin¬cipal, a leg of mutton will not make himand me fall out; so they were forced tocarry the pot back again, and Leper causedthe boys to huzza after them to their dis¬grace.There was a barber who always plaguedLeper, and called him prick-the-louse.—Leper resolved to be even with him, so hegoes and buys three sheep heads, and sendsfor the barber, and told him, that there■were three fine Southland gentlemen justcome to his house, which much wanted tobe shaved, and he assured him he would re¬ceive sixpence for each one of them ;—thisgood news made the shaver send for adram;—Leper wras still praising them forquiet good natured gentlemen. So Lepertakes him to the bed where the sheep headslay covered, and desired him to awakenthem for they would not be angry, or sayan ill won! to him, the barber lifts the cover¬ing and sees the sheep heads, runs outcursing and swearing, and Leper cryingafter him, sheep head barber.The barber resolved to be revenged onLeper, so when he was shaving Mess John,he tells him that Leper was the drunkenestfellow in the parish. So Mess John warnshim to the session ; Leper comes and says,wdiat do you want with me, Sir? Come20away Leper, says Mess John, I hear a badreport of you; me Sir, I am sure they werenot my friends that told you that.—Indeed,I am informed you are a drunkard.—I adrunkard you have not a soberer man inyour parish: stop Sir, I will tell you howI lead my life—in the morning- I take achoppin of ale and a bit of bread, that I callmy morning-; for breakfast I generallytake a herring- and a choppin of ale, for Icannot sup brose like my lads; the herringmakes me dry, so at eleven hours I take apint, and sometimes three choppins; atsupper I take a bit of bread and cheese anda pint, and so go to bed. Mess John says,its extravagant Sir, its excessive drinking-,I allow you one half of it for a quarter of ayear. Says Leper, I’ll try it, Sir, amicome back and tell you. At the end of thequarter he draws out his account, and goesto Mess John, who was sitting with hisciders in the Session-house, and says; SirI have a demand on you; on me, Sir;Yes, on you, Sir ; don’t you remember youallowed me so much drink for a quarter of ayear and I want the money. Am I to payyour reckoning, Sir. You allowed it, antiif you wont pay it I’ll take you before theProvost. The elders advised him to payit or he would be affronted; so Leper gotthe money. When he was at the door,'21lie says. Sir, will you stand another quar¬ter: Get away, says Mess John, and don’ttrouble me. Leper says, I am sure youmay, for I am always twopence to yourpenny.THE END.ANECDOTES.INCONVENIENCE OF A PETITION.A reverend Gentleman, when visiting-his parishioners, was in one house first sal¬uted with the growling- of a dog, and after¬wards by the cheering voice of a female,d—ning the dog for his ill-breeding. Headvanced and enquired for the master of thehouse. u What do ye want w i’that ? saidthe female. u We are wishing to see him,”said the Reverend Gentleman, will ye beso good as bring him to us?” “ I’ll gangnae sic an errand,” said she; “ye maygang doon to the market yoursef, an’ ye’llsee him there: they’re thrang killin’ theday. But what are ye wantiag wi’ Pate,if a body mieht speir.” “ This is the min¬ister,” said the elder who accompanied him,“he is wishing to have some conversationwith Peter, and to put up a petition.” “ Apetition 1 a petition!” exclaimed the ma-22Iron, aye’ll put up nae petition here; thehouse is wee eneug'h already, an’ wha do yethink’s garni to be fashed wi’ masons an’Wrights an’ a’ thae clamjamfray about theirhouse ? Faith no—the devil a petition willbe putten up in this house, as langs am in’twe’re gaun to fut at Whitsunday, so ye maycome then an’ put up as mony petitions asye like.”DUKE OF BUCCLEUGH.Henry, Duke of Buccleugh was greatlybeloved by his numerous tenantry. One ofhis small tenants, Jamie Howie by name,had a son about four years of age, who,having heard much of a great Duke ofBuccleugh, was very anxious to see him.Honest Jamie, in a few days, was honouredwith a visit from the duke, when Jamie,doffing his bonnet, and making a reverentialbow, says “O my Lord! ye maunna beangry wi’ me, but it’s God’s truth, myLord, there’s a daft we callant o’ mine, thatcanna rest, nor let others rest nicht nor day;he has ta’en in his head sic a notion o’ seeinwhat like ye are, Gudesake, my Lord, Idinna think he has ony yedea ye are a mat a’ hut some far awa, outlandish, ower secreature.” The Duke mightily tickelewith this fancy, desired Jamie to bring thyoungster into his presence forwith. On23comes-the juvenile inquisitor, with his fingerin his mouth, and cautiously reconnitres thepersonage before him. At last quoth theurchin, u Can ye soom?” u No my littlefellow,” replied his grace, u I canna soom.”“Can ye flee?” “No, I canna flee.”“ Weel, man, for as muckle’s ye’re I wadnagie ane o’ my father’s dukes for ye, for theycan baith soom an’ flee.”1 BANE TO PIKE.Some boys diverting themselves in oneof the streets of Edinburgh, observed on adoor, a brass plate with A1—x—nd—rGuthrie, W. S. engraved on it. In theirdiverson, they broke a pane of glass in oneof the windows, upon which Mrs. Guthrieand the maid sallied forth and seized one ofthe delinquents. “ Ye young rascal, what’sye’er name?” says the lady, “ Saundy,” re¬plied the boy. 11 What’s ye’re ither name ?”—“ Guthrie.”—“ Wha’s ye’re mither ?”—“ My mither sells burd’s cages.”—“ Whaiuoes she live?”—“I’ the Patter Raw.”—“Wha’s ye’re father?”—“I dinna ken.”—“ Do ye no ken ye’re father?”—“ Na !he ne’er comes but whan it’s dark, an’ nae-body kens bit my mither.” Upon hearingthis, the lady in a passion let go her victim,and running into the room where her hus¬band was sitting, fell a-scolding him like a24fury about his infidelity towards her. Theyoung* rogue laughed heartily at the successof his fraud, and turning' to his companions,said to them, u I think I’ve gi’en her a baneto pike!”SEEING ONE DRUNK.The late Rev. Mr. , of D Aberdeenshire was fond of his friend and abottle; he sacrificed so often and so freelyto the jolly god, that the presbytery couldno longer overlook such proceedings, andsummoned him before them to answer furhis conduct.—One of the elders, and con¬stant companion in his social hours, was citedas a witness against him. u Well, John(says one of the presbytery to the elder) didyou ever see the Rev. Mr. C the worseof drink?” uWeel a wyte no : I’ve monya time seen him the better o’t, but I ne’ersaw him the war o’t.” u But did you neversee him drunk ?” “That’s what I’ll ne’ersee, for before he be half slockened, I’m ayeblind fin’.”