THE3o.SLEEPINGBEAUTYOF THEWOOD.AN ENTERTAINING TALETO WHICH IS ADDEDaddy and the Hear*A Tkue Story.\0NALUMGLASGOWPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS52«t:a<iaA zi ir ,v/i ot’iiioil oftt bieii. : C . J J Aenp.MS-'looa rv : «o '' ^I *j ' .THESleeping* BeautyA TALE.TniiiiE was formerly, in a distant country, aing and a queen, the most beautiful and happythe world; having nothing to allay their de-ghts, but the want of children to participate ine pleasures they enjoyed. This was theirhole concern: physicians, waters, vows, andfferings were tried, but all to no purpose. At,st, however, the queen proved with child, andffii due time she was brought to bed of a daugh-. At the christening the princess had sevendries for her god-mothers, who were all theyiiould find in the whole kingdom, that every one| light give her a gift.I The christening being over, a grand feast was[j repared to entertain and thank the fairies. Be¬ne each of them was placed a magnificentbrer, with a spoon, a knife, and a fork, of pureold and excellent workmanship, set with divers4precious stones; but, as they were all sitting-down at the table, they saw come into the hall avery old fairy, whom they had not invited, be¬cause it was near fifty years since she had beenout of a certain tower, and was thought to havdbeen either dead or enchanted.The king ordered her a cover, but could notfurnish her with a case of gold as the others had,because he had only seven made for the seven: ,fairies. The old fairy, thinking she was slighted,by not being treated in the same manner as the: .rest, murmured out some threats between herteethOne of the young fairies who sat by heroverheard how she grumbled, and judging that .she might give the little princess som« unluckygift, she went, as soon as she rose trom the ta¬ble, and hid herself behind the hangings, thatshe might speak last, and repair, as much as pos¬sibly she could, the evil which the old fairy mightintend.In the meanwhile, all the fairies began to givetheir gifts to the princess in the following man¬ner :—The youngest gave her a gift, that she shockbe the most beautiful person in the world.The third, that she would have a wonderfugrace in every thinjr that she did.5The fourth, that she would sing perfectly w’ellAnd the sixth, that she would play on allkinds of musical instruments to the utmost degreeiof perfection.The old fairy’s turn coming next, she advan-;ced forward, and, w ith a shaking head whichI seemed to showT more spite than age, she said.That the princess would have her hands piercedilwith a spindle, and die ofthe wound,i This terrible gift made the whole company)lj tremble, and every one of them fell a-crying. .j: At this very instant the young fairy came outijfrom behind the curtains, and spoke these wordsaloud: Assure yourselves, O king and queen,that your daughter shall not die of this disaster.It is true I have not power to undo what myelder has done. The princess shall indeed pierceher hand with a spindle; but, instead of dying,she shall only fall into a profound sleep, whichsha'd last a hundred years, at the expiration ofwhich a King’s son shall come, and aw'ake her; from it.The king, to avoid this misfortune, told bythe old splenetic and malicious fairy, caused im¬mediately his royal proclamation to be issuedforth, whereby every person was forbidden, upon]pain of death, to spin with a distaff or spindle;6nay, even so much as to have a spindle in any oftheir houses.About fifteen or sixteen years after the kingand queen being gone to one of their houses ofpleasure, the young princess happened to divertherself by going up and down the palace, when,going up from one apartment to another, she atlength came into a little room at the top of thetower, where an old woman was sitting all alone,and spinning with her spindle.This good woman had not heard of the king’sproclamation against spindles.What are you doing there, Goody ? said theprincess. I am spinning, my pretty child, saidthe old woman, who did not know who she was.Ha! said the princess, that is very pretty: nowdo you do it? give it to me, that I may see if Ican do so. The old woman, to satisfy the child’scuriosity, granted her request. She had no soon- |j:er taken it into her hand, than whether beingvery hasty at it, and somewhat unhandy, or that ||;the decree of the spiteful fairy had ordained it, is |Ji!not to be certainly ascertained; but, however, it Timmediately ran into her hand, and she directly |lfell down upon the ground in a swoon.The good old woman, not knowing what todo iii this affair, cried out for help. People Camein from every quarter in great numbers; somethrew water upon the princess, face, unlaced her,- struck her on the palms of her hands, and rub¬bed her temples with Hungary water ; but allthey could do did not bring her to herself.The good fairy who had saved her life, bycondemning her to sleep one hundred years, was;in the kingdom of Matakin, twelve thousandleagues off, when this accident befel the princess ;but she was instantly informed of it by a littledwarf, who had boots of seven leagues, that is,boots with which he could tread over seven| leagues of ground at one stride. The fairy leftnthe kingdom immediately, and arrived at the pal-fjace in about an hour after, in a fiery chariot drawnvby dragons.The king handed her out of the chariot, andhe approved of every thing he had done; but,s she had a very great fore-sight, she thoughtIthat when the princess should awake, she mightnot know what to do with herself, being all alonetin this old palace ; therefore she touched with herit wand every thing in the palace, except the kingand queen, governesses, maids of honour, ladiesof the bed-chamber, gentlemen, officers, stewards,cooks, under-cooks, scullions, guards, with theirbeef-eaters, pages, and footmen; she likewisetouched all the horses that were in the stables,as well pads as others, the great dog in the outer8court, and the little spaniel bitch which lay byher on the bed.Immediately on her touching them they allfell asleep, that they might not wake before her |mistress, and that they might be ready to waitupon her when she wanted them. The very spits |at the fire, as full as they could be of partridges ''and pheasant, and every thing in the place, wheth¬er animate or inanimate, fell asleep also.All this was done in a moment; for fairies arenot long in doing their businessAnd now the king and queen, having kissedtheir child without waking her, went out of thepalace, and put forth a proclamation, that nobodyshould come near it. This, however, was unne¬cessary ; for in less than a quarter of an hour,there got up all around the park such a vast num¬ber of trees, great and small bushes, and bram¬bles, twined one within the other, that neitherman nor beast could pass through, so that noth¬ing could be seen but the very tops of the towersof the palace, and not that too, unless it was agood way off. Nobody doubted but the fairygave therein a very extraordinary sample of herart, that the princess, while she remained sleep¬ing, might have nothing to fear from any curiouspeople.When a hundred years were gone and-past;9he son of a king then reigning, and who was>f another family from that of the sleepingprincess, being out a hunting on that side of theountry, asked what these towers were which he;aw in the midst of a great thick wood. Everyme answered according as they had heard, some;aid it was an old ruinous castle, haunted by spir¬ts : others, that all the sorcerers and witches:cept their sabbath, or weekly meeting, in thatjijplace.I' The most common opinion was, that an ogree*ived there, and that he carried thither all theKittle children he could catch, that he might eatikhem up at his leisure, without any body beingliable to follow him, as having himself only powerflto pass through the wood.The prince was at a stand, not knowing whato believe, when an aged man spoke to himi thus:May it please your highness, it is about fiftyt years since I heard from my father, who heard; my grandfather say, that there was then in thiscastle a princess, the most beautiful that was everseen, that she must sleep there for a hundred* An ogree is a giant with long teeth and claws,a raw head and bloody bones; who runs awayU with little boys and girls, and eats them up.10years, and would be wakened by a king’s son, forvbom she was reserved.The young- prince was all on fire at thesewords, believeing, without considering the mat¬ter, that he could put an end to this rare adven¬ture, and, pushed on by love and honour, resolv¬ed that moment to look into it.Scarce had he advanced towards the wood,when all the great trees, the bushes, and bram¬bles, gave way of their own accord, and let himpass through. He went up to the castle, which 'he saw at the end of a large avenue, which hewent into; and what not a little surprised him fwas, he saw none of his people could follow him, "because the trees closed again as soon as he passed athrough them.However, he did not cease from valiantly con- atinning his way. He came into a spacious out- fiward court, where every thing he saw might have ifrozen up the most hardy person with horror.— cThere reigned all oyer a most frightful silence, tthe image of death every where shewed itself, tand there was nothing to be seen but stretched- sout bodies of men and animals, all seeming tobe dead.He, however, very well knew, by the rosy facesand the pimpled noses of the beef-eaters, that ■they were only asleep ; and their goblets, where- nLl 11:in still remained some few drops of wine, plainly!showing that they all had fallen asleep in theircups.He then, crossing a court, paved with marble,went up stairs, and came into the guard-cham-(>ber, where the guards were standing in theiri iranks, with their muskets upon their shoulders,; and snorting as loud as they could. After that,: he went through several rooms full of gentlemen(land ladies all asleep, some standing and others.li sitting.I At last he came into a chamber all gilt withgold; here he saw, upon a bed, the curtains ofwhich were all open, the finest sight that everhe beheld—a princess, who appeared to be aboutfifteen or sixteen years of age, ^nd those resplend¬ent beauty had in it something divine. He ap¬proached with trembling and admiration, and felldown before her on his knees. And now the en¬chantment was at an end ; the princess, awaked,and looked on him with eyes more tender thanthe first view might seem to admit of. Is it youmy prince ? said she to him; you have waited aI~ long time.The prince, charmed with these words, andmuch more with the manner, in which they werespoken, asured her that he loved her better thanhimself.12Their discourse was so well conducted, that!they did weep more than talk; there was verylittle eloquence, but a great deal of loye. Hewas more at a loss than she was, and no wonder,;as she had time to think on what to say to him;for it is very probable, though the history men¬tions nothing of it, that the good fairy, during solong a sleep, had given her agreeable dreams.In short, they talked four hours together, and,yet said not half of what they had got to say.In the mean time all in the palace awaked,every one thinking on his particular, business;and as all of them were not in love, they wereready to die with hunger. The chief lady ofhonour, being as sharp set as the others, gr£w >very impatient, and told the princess aloud, that! t,the supper was served up. The prince helped ■the princess to rise, she being entirely dressed, »and very magnificent; though his royal highnessdid not forget to tell her, that she was dressedlike his grandmother, and had a point-band peep- <ing over a high collar; but, however, she lookednot less beautiful and charming for all that.They went into the great hall of lookingglasses, where they supped, and w-ere served bythe officers of the princess ; the violins and haut¬boys played all old tunes, but very excellent,though it wTas now about a hundred years sinceiirthey had lived. And after supper, without los¬ing any time, the lord almoner married them inthe chapel of the castle, and the chief lady ofhonour drew' the curtains. .They had but very little sleep that night, theprincess had no occasion; and the prince left herthe next morning to return into the city, wherehis father had been in great pain anxious for hisreturn.The prince told him he had lost his way inthe forest as he was hunting, and had lain at thecottage of a collier, who had given him somebrown bread and cheese.The king his father, who was a very goodman, readily believed him; but his mother thequeen could not be persuaded that this was alto¬gether true; and, seeing that he went almostevery day a hunting, and that he had alwaysfound some excuse for so doing, though he hadlain out three or four nights together, she beganto suspect (and very justly too) his having somelittle private amour, which he then endeavouredthat she should remain ignorant of.Now these frequent excursions, which he thenmade from the palace, where the times that heretired to the princess, with whom he lived inthis manner for about two years, and by whomhe had two fine children, the eldest of whom was14a girl, v?hom they named Morning, and theyoungest a boy, whom they named Day, becausehe was a great deal handsomer and much morebeautiful and comely than the sister.The queen’s jealousy increasing, she severaltimes spoke to her son, desiring him to informher after what manner he spent his time, alleg¬ing that, as he saw her so very uneasy, he oughtin duty to satisfy her. But he never dared totrust her with his secret; for she was of the raceof ogets, and the king would certainly not havemarried her, had it not been for her vast riches.It was whispered about the court that she hadan ogerish inclination, and that whenever shesaw any little children going by, she had all thedifficulty in the world to refrain from falling uponthem; so the prince would never tell her one■word.But when the king wras dead, which happenedabout two years afterwards, and he saw himselflord and master, he then openly declared hismarriage, and went in great ceremony to con¬duct his queen to the palace. They made a verymagnificent entry into the city, with her twochildren beside her,Some time after the king wrent to make wafwith the emperor Cantalabute, his neighbour.15He left the government ot the kingdom to thequeen his mother, and earnestly recommended toher the care of his wife and children.As soon as he was departed, the queen sentfor her daughter-in-law to come to her, and thensent her to a country house among the woods,that she might with more ease and secrecy grati¬fy her inclinations.Some few days after she went to this countryhouse herself, and calling for the clerk of thekitchen, she said to him, I have a mind to eatlittle Morning for my dinner to-morrow\Ah ! madam, cried the clerk of the kitchen, ina very great surprise. No excuse, replied she,interrupting him ; I will have it so ;—and thisshe spoke in the tone of an ogress, seeming tchave a strong desire to taste; fresh meet. Andto make the dish more delicious, added she, I willeat her with sauce made of Robert.This poor man, knowing very well how dan¬gerous it was to play tricks with ogresses, tookhis great knife and went up into little Morning’schamber. She wTas then four years old, and cameup to him leaping and laughing, to take himabout the neck, and asked him for some sugar-candy, on which he began to weep, and the knifefell out of his hand ; and he we it into the backyard and killed a lamb, which he dressed with16such good sauce, that his mistress asured himshe had never eaten any thing so good in all herlife.He had at the same time taken up little Morn¬ing, and carried her to his wife, in order that shemiyht be concealed in alodjrinsf which he had atthe bottom of the court-yard.The queen’s lascivious appetite (according toher own apprehensions) being once humoured, : 'she ag-ain began to long for another dainty bit.Accordingly, a few days after, she called for theclerk of the kitchen, and told him that she in¬tended that night to sup out of little Day. Heanswered never a word, being resolved to cheather as he had done before. He went out to findlittle Day, and saw* him with a foil in his hand,with which he was fencing with a monkey, the ■child being but three years old. He took himup in his arms and carried him to his wife, thatshe might conceal him in her chamber, alongwith his sister; and, in the room of little Day,cooked up a young kid very tender, which theogress praised as much as the former, saying itwas wonderfully good.All hitherto was mighty well; but a fewr even¬ings after this craving ogress said to the clerk ofthe kitchen, I will also eat the young queen withthe same sauce that I had with the children.17Now was the critical time; tor the poor clerkjdespaired of being able to deceive her.The young queen was turned of twenty yearsof age, not counting the hundred years she had'been asleep, though her skin was somewhat toughyet she was fair and beautiful; and how to finda beast in the yard so firm that he might killmnd cook for to appease her canine appetite, was| what puzzled him greatly, and made him totallyat a loss what to do.He then took a resolution that he must save1 his own life, and cut the queen’s throat; and, go-K ing into her chamber with an intent to do it at| once, he put himself into as great a fury as he(! could, went into the queen’s room with his dag-j| ger in his hand. However, his humanity wouldI not allow him to surprise her, but he told her,with a great deal of respect, the orders he hadreceived from the queen her motherDo it, said she, stretching out her neck; exe¬cute your orders, and I shall go and see my child¬ren, whom I so dearly love. For she thoughtthem dead ever since they had been taken from: her.No, fair princess! cried the humane clerk ofthe kitchen, all in tears; you shall see your child¬ren again. But then you shall go with me toi my lodgings, where I have concealed them ; and18I shall deceive the queen once more, by givingher another young kid in your stead.Upon this he forthwith conducted her to herchamber, where he left her to embrace her child¬ren, and cry aloud with them ; and he then wentand dressed a young kid, which the queen hadfor supper, and devoured it with the same appe¬tite as though it had been the young queenNow was she exceedingly delighted with thisunheard-of cruelty, and she had invented a storyto tell the king at his return, how the mad wolveshad eaten up the queen his wife, with her twochildren.One evening some time after, as she was, ac¬cording to her usual custom, rambling about thecourt and yards of the palace, to see if she couldsmell any fresh meat, she heard, in a ground-room, little Day crying, for his mother was go¬ing to whip him because he had been guilty ofsome fault, and she heard at the same time littleMorning soliciting pardon for her brotherThe ogress presently knew the voice of thequeen and her children, and, being quite in a rageto think she had been thus deceived, she com¬manded the next morning, by break of day, ina most terrible voice, which made every onetremble, that they should bring into the middleof the court a very large tub, which she caused19■!to be filled with toads, vipers, snakes, and allsorts of serpents, in order to throw into it thequeen and her children, the clerk of the kitchen,his wife and maid; all of whom she had givenorders to have them all brought thither, withtheir hands tied behind them, to sulfer the ven-igeance of the incensed ogress.They v:ere brought out accordingly, and theiexecutioners were going to throw them into theI tub, when the king fortunately entered the court( in his carriage, and asked, with the utmost as-| tonishment, what was meant by this horritt spee-I tacle; no one daring to tell him.When the ogress saw what had happened, shea fell into a violent passion, and threw herself headforemost into the tub, and was instantly devour¬ed by the ugly Creatures she had ordered to bethrown into it for others.The king could not but grieve being verysorry, for she was his mother; but he soon com¬forted himself with his beautiful wife, and histwo pretty children. And after all things weresettled, he well rewarded the clerk of the kitchenfor his wisdom, humanity and compassion.20THE MORAL.To get a husband rich, gentle, and gay,Of humour sweet, some time to stayIs natural enough, ’tis true;But then to w'ait a hundred years,And all the while asleep, appearsA thing entirely new.Now at this time of day,Not one of all the sex w7e seeTo sleep with such found tranquillity.But yet this fable seems to let us know7,That very often Hymen’s bless is sweet,Although some tedious obstacfes they meetWhich makes us for them a long while stay,And that we nothing lose by such delay.But warm’d by nature’s lambient fires,The sex so ardently aspires,Of this blest state the sacred joys t’ embrace,And with each earnest heart pursue’m,I’ve not the will, I must confess,Nor yet the power of fine address,To preach this moral to ’em.21PADDY AND THE BEAR,About the time I was a boy, Archy Thompsonlived in Cushendall, lower part of county Antrim.He was a great man ; kept a grocer’s shop, andwas in fact a complete Jack Factotum, and soldevery thing portable, from a needle to an anchor;he was a ponderous fellow, wore a wig like a bee¬hive, and was called the king of CushendallOne night, when he was returning home from afriend’s wake, he found a male child at the shopdoor some months old 5 he embraced it—swore hewould keep it, and was as fond of him as everSquire All worthy was of Tom Jones. A womanwas sent for to nurse him; they called her Snou-ter Shaughnessy, because she wanted the nose Snouter had no suck, and poor Paddy (for so hewas christened) was spoon-fed, and soon grew astout, well-built fellow, and to show his grati¬tude, (for Paddy had a heart) would do all thework about the house himself. He *was likeScrub in the Beaux Stratagem, servant of allwork; he milked the cow; he cleaned the byre,and thatched it; he went to market; he soled theshoes; he cleaned the knives; he shaved; andpowdered his master’s wig; and, in short, did asmuch work in one day as an ordinary servantwould do in a week. Paddy’s delight was in fre¬quenting wakes and listening to all sorts of mar¬vellous stories, which he would swallow downust the more readily the more marvellous theywere His master having’ gone one day to Bel¬fast, he went to old Brien Sollaghan’s wake,where a lad just come home from a foreign voy¬age was telling stories out of the course of nature,improbable. Paddy believed all he was relatingbut something about blackamoors; for he swore“ ’twas impossible for one man to be black, andanother man white, for he could not be naturallyblack without he was painted ; but,” says he,‘ 111 ask the master in the morning, when hecomes home, and then I’ll know all about it.’ Sohe says in the morning, ‘ Master, is there anysuch a thing as a blackamoor ?’ ‘ To be sure thereis, as many as would make regiments of them,but they’re all abroad.’ ‘ And what makes themblack ?’ { Why, it’s the climate, they say.’ ‘ Andwhat’s the climate ?’ ‘ Why I don’t know: I be¬lieve it’s something they rub upon them whenthey’re very young.’ ‘ They must have a deal ofit, and very cheap, if there’s as many of them asyousay Thenext time you’re in Belfast, I wishyou’d get a piece of it, and we’ll rub little Barneyover with it and then we can have a blackamoorof our own. But as I’m going in the Irish Vol¬unteer, from Larne to America, in the spring,I’ll see them there. Paddy went over as a re-demptioner and had to serve a time for his pass¬age. One day he was sent by his master six1 miles from Baltimore, to the heights of Derby,I on an errand. Paddy, thinking and ruminatingon the road that he had not yet seen a blackamoor,forgot the directing-post on the road, and got en-i| tangled in a forest; it happened to be deep snow,l and there was a large black bear lying at the tootof a tree, which he did not observe till within afew yards of him. ‘ Hurra, my darling !’ saysi he, ‘ here’s one of them now at last—queen ofj glory! such a nose as he has: they talk aboutLqughey Fadaghan’s nose ; why, the noses of allthe Fadaghans put together would not make this: fellow’s nose. I never saw one of your sort be-; fore,’ says Paddy; £ why, man, you’ll get yourdeath of cowld lying there ; I have an odd testeri yet left, that I brought from Cushendall, and if: there’s a shebeen near this, I’ll give you a snif-. ter, for I’d like to have a talk with you.’ ‘ Boo,’l says the bear. ‘ Lord, what a voice he has—he» could sing a roaring song.’ ‘ Boo, boo !’ againi< ; cries the bear. ‘ Who are you booing at, may I:: ax ? for if it’s fun you‘re making of me, ram my! fist up to the elbow in you.‘ Up get the bear,and catches Paddy by the shoulder. ‘ Is it for. wrestling you are?—Cushendall for that—soul,but you grip too tight, my jewel; you had bettertake your fist out of my shoulder, or 141 take anunfair advantage of you.‘ Paddy went to catchhim by the middle ; ‘ O sw'eet bad luek to you,24you thief, and the tailor that made your breechesvou’re made for wrestlings but I’ll nick you.’Paddy pulled out his tobacco-knife, and gave hima prod in the right place, and down he fell to riseno more. 4 O murther; what will become of me!now?' says he—‘ I’ve killed this big, ugly blacksblackguard, and I’ll be hanged for him. O mur¬der, murder! O what will become of me!’ Aproprietor of the place! comes up at the moment,‘ What is all this about?—what’s the matter, mygood fellow?’ 1 Oh, your honour’s glory, I’m astranger .—I’m from Cushendall, your honour, Tnever seen a blackamoor before, and I just asked,one of them to take a drop with me; but he woulddo dothing but make fun of me, so I gave him aprod, for I could not get hold of him—Stop, stop]there’s a bear lying there, take care.’—4 the black-sunoor,’ 4 By the holy father’, says Paddy, 4 is thata bear! faith then I’ll engage I’ll drop them toyou for a tester a-dozcn.’ The gentleman ad-jmired his courage so much, that he went to Bal-'timore, bought off his time, and made him anoverseer of his estate, which he filled with inte¬grity ; and after seventeen years, came home tohis native country, left what he had saved to oldSnouter’s grand-children, and had his bones laidin the same -n’ave with his old and loving masterlFiMo