That wonder ul Rot,nr Propliet. bein^ now nearone hundrvti ani fifty five years old. Who hastraveled almoit over th.e whole habitable world.Alfo.an Bcogunt of his travels and prophecies thathe had proplytcied in di/T: rent places many oftvSich ',aae come to 'pafs in Kngiand and otherparts; with an account cf thofe that are judnow to be fullfillpd in Kurope and Afia, at thisptefent tifne>iLh fcverai things which -h** has prophecied re-lating particularly to Gre.-ft fciit.io, ■''ranee andIreland, andjtaken from his own mouth at Port-fmoutn win re he landed and likev-he Inice hi^e rrival at. Loudon.EDI N B V R G H sPruned ty Merren, GompleV's Cbfe Cov^ate( > )To the RE A.DER.Jt Is humbly to be prefumed, that thereneeds rio'eloquence or perfuaiion, to tnfufeinto people, a .heir:f of there being Inch aman as g.noch, the Roman Prophet for allor the greateft part'of our News papers havetaken notice of him for rhefe feveral years.I therefore onlv beg leave, to acquaint myReaders, that, for fome prophecies he madeat Rome, concerning the people he wasput into the Inquifition ; yet the mghr be¬fore he was to be executed, he was wonder-fuily delivered, and brought from Rome toPortfmouth. by an Angel, in a nights time :.as you will find in the following narrative ofliia life, delivered by his own mouth.; 3 )., ’I w/as, fa\3 he born upwards ef 155 \carrfmce, of mean Parents npon the AJpjan Ira!/;My Mother, being as it has been ret'ealed tome, for I do not remember her, a pious Wo¬man and rm’ Father dying at Paris, wherethey lived . ^he being with child of me, un¬dertook a Pilgrimage to.Loretta, but p iffingover the Alps, and falling into labour, theremiierably peri fired for want of fuitable afliJl-ance but not before fhe had taken as muchcare of me as pofible fire cnidd, and wrappingme up in a p«tticoat faid, God who bleflidElijah arid fed him by Ravens I hope will al-fo feed you and keep you from all wants, and. then killing me fhe expired. She being deadas it was revealed to me, 1 was fuckled, bythe wonderfu! Providence of God till 1 wasfour years old by a Die bear: and after that Ibegan to eat Kerbs, which I (lid delight in.I wandered upon the A!ps till f wss tenyears old, without any gr, at exploits done byme, however I remembered, one dar as Iwas contemplating the wonderful works of;God in fuporitng the Sun, Moon and Stars,and this beautiful Glob, all which, I attiibuli-ed to nature, I heard a voice in tire Hebrew,faying, i am your Guide and 1 will be yourdefender fear not: Upon this I turned about,aad beheld a vifion n fenbHng an Angel Hand¬ing clofe by me, ar.d faid. “ The prayers ofV- tny !\'Ic:t.her r.a:.; been lieard and thou Hair |" been'rrtiraculeirfly preferved, th^hk Ocd, *|“ and praile his !;oly nan;e, he has ftiewi?h;ch favours to j‘ou, ’ You. a re defined toobferve, that till that time I had never feeuany human creature, that I find! remember,and of confequehce not learned to fpeak.. but inyy lips was immediately opened; and thefirings of my tongue were loft d, fo that Icould fpeak tny language T heard. I wascommanded by this yifion, which has often at¬tended me, to go and travel, and to preach theGofpel which fhali be delivered bv the handof rhe Lord unto thee, and to preach ft in both Ithe Ir.dies.atid the deminons belonging to theTurks Iwentas 1 wrscommahded'andpreach- ic<i as by him directed. I v/as many timfis inieveral nations, call intoprifon, tried, and am-demned, but always mirdculoiifty prefervedby \his angel, w^ho never failed to he my deliver-er as he - as from out of the hands of-theRoman inquifit:on. fpr being taken upand putinto the. Inqnifition, <f Home, for preaching ,fomething to the people as I was diredled, bythe zngel, mv ufuai Guardian, camethe nightbefore I was tube executed,totheprifon where1 w'as confined. Ami lo ! the keepers beinga'l fore afraid, fell as dead men to the ground,and the angel flrikeirg the pjifon door with awand it immediately fievv open, and he led( 5 J rJme put ui;d gukl-d rfce to the i’eafide \vhe put me into a (mnl! iiiip, t»> riiy thinking,which in a fiiort time, in m the n tart ft portin Rome, brought 'roe Lo this place, where,and to whom 1 am directed to declare,, thepn phfey i s follows1 *m weiraffured, that whereas 1 royfelflive an abfitjmhros fife, iree Irom thcfe ban¬quets which the voluptebcs g^rmanaizins^epicure;-, who see too frequeivl - roet withalin this corupt age, it has Keen for -.hr bene¬fit okroy i< ul and body, i ot but that I cou dbe glad to be tliffplved, and be in Hear', njhiff.ill 1 have no nght to'haften rny dif-otufif n, for «hat iv dtrcCfmg of Providence,who knows beter when to call lor us. than«•© can preterdde do. It the age would le. veoff their luuurous vayir the} may tahe ofllK.fe fw erts of life which I have done. viz. Ican r?lifh herbs, fweet roots and 'ruitj andesn fill my belly, pleafe roy epphite, aiidnourrlh my body, and refrefiv roy i*int fpiritswith thofe neerffaries cl ufe which prolongthe fame ; dainty difhe?, i icli and high feafoil¬ed fauces, are my antidote, and will be de-ftruftive to fucb as fellows them ; but Pcan’tdw'ell any longer on this ful jeCt, for • m o-r bliged to declare the following Precisions jbut before I fpeak of thofe things whig ,reto conic, 1 think it not improper to acquaint• ( 6, )you, that I foretold the troubles of Francem the memory of Lewis the XIV; the warsbetv, eenthe Empercrana Turks inHunfiar . ;tye u* fort urate rebeljon in England, whenthat gracious; good and-pious Prince wasbrought to the block ; I alfo foretold the re.iteration of Charles the II. and the abdicationof James the II. and the deplorable wars inglorious King Wit ia ds reign, were foretoldby me, and . he peace of Urretch, 1 declaredthe glo; i >ns Queen Anns acerflion, and pre-eictedherviftories and trophies: plainly fore-tetd the death of Lewis XIV snd pious Anaeand great George the Firfhs acceffioa to thethrone ns a!fo what happened in his -eignlaftly tile, death of the King of Poland, withthe troubles.that were like t* enfue; and ofGeorge the Illd's glorious acceffion to thethrose wham God long^preferve, for he will^pu^ an end to the wars,’A certain Priace, reconed the greateifcblaod in the werld will have a great part ofthis kingdom funk into a vaft gulph ; anotherwho bears a great figure in, tie wocrld, w ill bebanifiied by his lubjedls a haughty king whoboafti of his vaft riches and fays, the funne er goes dsvvn in his territories endeavour¬ing to curb a white horfe fhall be thrice putto the foil and at lenghth laid in the dull. Afamous r.-pubiick Ihall be united with theV 7 ) .^1 :•iureaci eaglf, and joined battle with the halfmoon, lha’1 give thetn a total overthrow; ardgbboimn.' country concerting with theallies, li a .' become terrible to a l that r pp 'fethem ; he further fays that the Britons withtheir allies wili deflroy the French andAuft-rians and they will become tiibutary to theL’nglifh ; ond that the proteitant religion willbe ei’abli'fhfd in‘ah nations of the world inAfia, Africa, Europe and America. And hefurther de’ared, as it has been revealed tohim, that as there has been great fcsrciry inGreat Britan and other parts there will beas grear plenty as has be'en fcnou n ever fincethe memory of the oWelt man living ; forcorn■will be very cheap, md every thing will beproportionab'e -to it ; for the Almighty‘hasheard the cries of the poor, and knows theirwants, and will relieve them. He likewifementions that all taxe\duties and excile'lhallbe taken off, and England fliallbecome a freenation . Kow to convince people of the real¬ity of his travels and prophecies, he produceda journal of all the metropolies of the world,which no man ever brought the like to Eng¬land before.He likewife declared a great many wonder¬ful predictions which will fhortly come topafiin England, Scotland and Ireland Franceand Germany, Spain and Italy, aed all the do-•stnlmons b-Ionging to the 'f’lirks, and that all 1nations ia-jll tura to Cariit ;nd llnli lire iu ■unity pee with another and the Jews will be Jcalled home, and they ihiil rutuni to jerufa* Ilera and dwell there, and it ilia it again flourifh jas raucii as ever; but before the conclusionof thele things a dreatiful batt e wi i enlue ; lthe temp e of Bel ona will be fhut and people '.•earn to war no more,' but all the world * ill ilive in love and unity together ; But 1 expetlto give you a further account of En»ch the :IiGra^tn Prophet, for he will fhortilv appear inScripture, judgeme 'tsof Mount Seir, for their ?hatred of Hi eal, as you will find in the thirti¬eth chapter of JLzekiel.Moreover he word of the Lord came unto 'me, faying Sun of man, fet thy face againll !M#at Seir, and prophec y againft ic, and fay iunto itt thus faith the Lord God behold, be¬hold, 1 am againft thee and } will make thee :moll defolate, becauic thou haft a perpitualhatred and has Hied the blood of the childrenof Ifreal, br force of fword in the time of their icalam ty ; thus faith the Lord God when thewhoje earth rejoiceth. I wiii make the delo-la‘e as thou didft rejoice at the inheritence ofthe uoufe of Ifreal; becauf • it wa: delblate ;fo,</t I do unto thee, thou lhallt be defolate*O Muul Seirv and all Idumaa, even a of itand they fnall know that t arn the LordF I N I s.