HISTORY OF\Dr. FJ1USTTJSSHEWINGHis wicked Life and horrid Death, and how hesold himself to the devil, to have power for 24years to do what he pleased, also many strangethings done by him with the assistance ofMEPHOSTOPHItES.With an account how the devil came for him atthe end of 24 years, and tore him to pieces.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.11 ubf?7^xOF SCOTLAND*.0 ' ::'2■ ■on TltRf!. : ■]' '’’i» < jn.‘- a i »:«“ ■.jg&liH'lo* 10 •:«:•!■ • r.■ is ' |f| : { .*1 i>iO! fk-!;- . 1 O' • or.': WO03 J<‘>.a^MJa ig^ooa : ht noi aaTziHrt3THEHISTORYOFDR. JOHN FAUSTUS.CHA?. I.IFaustus’ birth and education: with an ac¬count of his falling from the Scriptures.:tor john faustus was bom in Germany;ather was a poor labouring man, not able toup his son John: but he had a brother insame country, who was a very rich man, butnever a child, and took a great fancy to hisin, and he resolved to make a scholar of him ;n order thereunto, put him tothe latin school,1e he took his learning extraordinary well;wards he put him to the University to studyity ; but Faustus could in no ways fancy thatloyment; wherefore he betook himself to theying of thaf which his inclination is most for,Necromancy and Conjuration, and in a lit-4tie time, few or none could outstrip him in tlart; He also studied Divinity : of which he w;made Doctor; but within a short time fell intsuch deep fancies and cogitations, that he reso: ived to throw the scriptures from him, and betat uhimself wholly to the studying of necromac tand conjuration, charms and sooth-saying, witclcraft, and the like.CHAP II.How Dr. Faustus conjured up the devil, mal«mg him appear at his own house.Faustus, whose mind was to study conjurationthe which he followed night and day; he too? jthe wings of an eagle, and endeavoured to fly o\er the world, to see and know all the secrets ( iiheaven and earth: so that in a short time, he al ijtained power to command the devil to appear b( tiefore him when he pleased. One day as DjIFaustus was walking in a wood near to Wirtemberg, in Germany, he having a friend with hit:who was desirous to know of the Doctor’s arfhe desired him to let him see if he could then anthere bring Mephostophiles before him; all whic5the Doctor immediately did, and the devil uponthe first call, made such a noise in the wood, asif heaven and earth would have come together;then the devil made such a roaring as if the woodhad been full of wild beasts. The Doctor madea circle for the devil, the which circle the devilran round, making a noise as if ten thousand wag¬gons had been running upon paved stones. Af-this it thundered and lightened, as if the wholei world had been on fire. Faustus and his friendji amazed at this noise, and the devil’s long tarry-i ing, thought to leave his circle; whereupon hei made him such music, the like was never heardin the world: This so ravished Faustus that hebegan again to conjure Mephostophiles in thename of the prince of the devils, to appear in hisf own likeness; whereupon in an instant, hung| over his head a mighty dragon. Faustus callsagain after his former manner, after which therewas a cry in the wood as if hell had opened, andall the tormented souls had been there ; Faustusin the mean while, asked the devil many ques¬tions, and commanded him to show many dia¬bolical tricks.iiw6CHAP. III.How Mephostophiles came to Dr. Faushis’shouse and what happened between them.Faustus commanded the spirit to meet him athis house by ten of the clock the next day. Atthe hour appointed he came into his chamber,asking Faustus what he would have; Faustustold him, it was his will and pleasure to conjurehim to be obedient to him in all points of thoseiu tides, viz.First, That the spirit should serve him in allthings he asked, from that time till his death.Secondly, Whatsoever he would have, heshould bring him.Thirdly, Whatsoever he desired to know, heshould tell him.The spirit answered him and said he had nosuch power of himself, until he had acquaintedhis prince that ruled over him: “ For” said he,“ we have rulers over us that send us out, andcommand us home when they please: and wecan act no further than our power is, whichwe receive from Lucifer, who, you know, forhis pride was thrust out of heaven. Hut saith7he spirit, i am not to tell you any more ex¬cept you make yourself over to us.”Whereupon Faustus said, “ I will have myiequest ? but yet I will not be damned with you.”Fhen said the spirit, “ You must not, nor shallHot have your desire, and yet thou art mine and111 the world connot save thee out of my hands.”Ifhen said Faustus. “ Get thee hence, and tfconjure thee, that thou come to me at night.”IFhe spirit then vanished. Faustus then begano consider, how he might obtain his desire, andnot give his soul to the devil.And while Faustus were in these his devilishcogitations, night drew on, and this hellish spiritippeared to Faustus, acquainting him, that nowbe had got orders from his prince to be obedienthim, and to do for him whatsoever he desired,orovided he would promise to be his, and withalo acquaint him first, what he would have of him?mustus replied, that his desire was to become aspirit, and that Mephostophiles should be alwaysit his command; that whatsoever he called forurn, he shall appear invisible to all men, andthat he should appear in what shape he pleased,o which the spirit answered, that all his desiresshould be granted if he would sign those articles,he should wish or ask for: whereupon Dr. Faus¬tus withdrew and stabbed his wrist receiving the8blood in a small saucer, which cooled so fast, asif. it forwarned him of the hellish act he was go¬ing to commit; nevertheless he put it over em¬bers to warm it, and wrote as follows.c< I, John Faustus, approved doctor of divin¬ity, with my Own hand do acknowdedge and tes¬tify myself to become a servant to Lucifer,Prince of Septentrional and Oriental, and to himI freely and voluntarily give both soul; in con-;sideration for the space of twenty four years, if 1be served in all things which I shall require, 01which is reasonable by him to be allow’ed ; at theexpiration of which time from the date ensuing,I give to him all power to do with me at hispleasure; to rule to retch and carry me wherehe pleases body and soul; hereupon I defy Godand Christ, and the host of angels and goodspirits all living creatures that bear his shape,or on whom his image is imprinted; and to thebetter strengthening the validity of this covenantand firm agreement between us, I have writ itwith my blood, and subscribe my name to itcalling all the powers and infernal potentates telwitness it is my true intent and meaning.”JOHN FAUSTUS.9CHAP IV.I hat happened to Faustus after the signingof the articles.When Faustus had made an end of his writingfc called Mephostophiles to him, and deliveredm the bond; whereupon the spirit told him if: did not repent of what he had done, he shoulditjoy all the pleasure his thoughts could form,id that he would immediately divert him. Heused a kennel of hounds to run down a hart ine hall, and vanished : then a bull danced beforeaustus, also there was a lion and a bear, which1 to fighting before Faustus, and the lion des-oyed the bear : after that came a dragon andfestroyed the lion. And this, with abundancemore pastime, did the spirit present to theictor’s view, concluding with all manner ofusic, with some hundreds of spirits, which cameid danced before Faustus. After the musicas over, and Faustus began to look about him,e saw ten sacks full of silver, which he went toispose of, but could not, for none could handle; but himself, it was so hot. This pastime soleased Faustus, that he gave Mephostophiles10the will that he had made, and kept a copy of 1in his own hands. The spirit and Faustus bfing agreed, they dwelt together, and the devwas in their house-keeping-, for there was neveany thing given away to poor, which befoiFaustus made this contract was frequently doiubut the case is now altered.CHAP. V.How Faustus served the Duke of Bavaria.Faustus having sold his soul to the devil, ;\Vas reported among his neighbours, so that nonwould keep him company, but his spirit play in,merry tricks for to please him. Not far froiFaustus’s house lived the Duke of Bavaria, thDuke of Saxony, and the Bishop of SalisburgUwhose houses and cellars Mephostophiles used tlvisit, and to bring the best of every thing thehad : one day the Duke of Bavaria invited moiof the gentry of the country to dinner, for whosentertainment, there was abundance of provisio:got ready. The gentry being come, and read:to sit down to dinner, in an instant Mephostopl tiles came and took all away with him, leavini11them full of admiration. If any time Faustushad a mind for wild fowl, the spirit would callwhole flocks in at a window ; also the spirit didteach Faustus to do the like so that no lock norkey could keep them out. The devil also taughtFaustus to fly in the air and to act many thingsthat are incredible, and too large for this smallhook to contain.CHAP. VI.I i ff • titC) > ; '• <77 / >ffj iioi' r!l How Dr. Faustus dreamed of hell in his sleepand what he saw there.After Faustus had a long conference with hisjj) spirit concerning the fall of Lucifer, and the;t| state and condition of all the fallen angels, he,|in a vision or dream, saw hell and all the devils(land souls that were tormented there; he saw hell(|| divided into several cells, or deep holes; and forijjevery cell, or deep w'ard, there was a devil ap-(hpointed to punish those that were under his cus-jptody. Having seen this sight, he much mar‘Welled at it; and at that time MephostophilesijJbeing with him, he asked him what sort of peo-tjjple they were that lay in the first dark pit; then12Mephostophiles told him they were those whopretended themselves to be physicians, and whohad poisoned many thousands to try practise;and now saith the spirit they have just the sameadministered to them, which they gave to othersthough not with the same effect, for they willnever die here saith he. Over their heads wasa shelf laden with gallipots full of poison. Hav¬ing past them he came to a long entry exceedingdark where there was a mighty crowd, he askedhim what those vrere ? and the spirit told himthey weie pick-pockets ; who loved to be in acrowd, when they were in the other world, andto content them they put them in a crowd there,amongst them were some padders on the highway, and those of that function. Walking far¬ther he saw many thousands of vintners, andsome millions of taylors, in so much that theycould not feel where to get stow age for them ; agreat number of pastry cooks with peels on theirheads. Walking farther, the spirit opening agreat cellar door, from which arose a terriblenoise, he asked what they were; the spirit toldhim they w ere witches, and those who had beenpretended Saints in the other world; but howthey did squabble, fight, and tear one an other !Not far from them lay the whore mongers andadulterers, w'ho made such a hideous noise, that13e was very much startled. Walking down afew steps he espied an incredible number almostid with smoke; he asked what they were ? thebirit told him they were millers and bakers ; butood lack, what a noise was there among them !’he millers crying to the bakers, and the bakersying to the millers for help, but all was in vain,«• there was none to help them. Passing onlill farther, he saw thousands of shopkeepers,:>me of whom he knew, who were tormented forlefrauding and cheating their customers. Hav-ig taken this prospect of Hell, the spirit Me-hostophiles took him in his arms, and carriedim home to his own house, when he awaking,re was amazed at what he saw in his dream. Soneing come to himself, he asked the spirit in whatlace Hell was, and who made it ? Mephostoph-es answered, “ Knowest thou, that before theill of Lucifer, there was no hell, but upon his.ill, was hell ordained. As for the substance ofjell, wTe devils do not know; it is the wrath oft rod that makes hell so furious, and what we) rocured by our fall; but where hell is, or howj, is governed, and whatsoever thou desirest tomow, when thou comest there thou shalt be sat-ified as far as we know ourselves.14CHAP. VII.Containing some tricks of Dr. Faustus.Dr. Faustus having attained the desire of liisspirit, had now full power to act or do any thingwhatever he pleased ; upon a time the Empero)had a desire to see him, and likewise some of theDoctor’s tricks : whereupon he was requested bjthe Emperor, to do somewhat to make him merry; but the Doctor in the meanwhile looking around him he at last espied a great lord lookingout at a window, and the Doctor calling his spirit to help him, he in an instant fastened a larg<pair of horns upon the Lord’s head, that he coulonot get his head in till Faustus took olf the horni Iagain,which were soon taken oft'invisibly; TinLord whom Faustus served so, was extremeljvexed, and resolved to be revenged on the Doc-: itor, and to that end lay a mile out of town foiFaustus’s passing by, he being that day to de: arlfor the country ; Faustus coming by a wood side: Ibeheld that Lord mounted upon a mighty war¬like horse, who run full drift against Faustus |who, by the assistance of his spirit, took him ano iall, and carried before the Emperor’s palace, anoi.5grafted a pair of horns on his head as big as anOx’s; which he could never be rid of, but worethem to his dying- day.CHAP. VIIIHow Faustus eat a load of Hay.Faustus upon a time having many doctors andmasters of arts with him, went to walk in thefields, where they met with a load of hay; “ Hownow good Fellow,” saitb Faustus, “ what shall Igive thee to fill my belly with hay ?” The Clownthought he had been a madman to talk of eating-hay, told him he should fill his belly for onepenny; to which the doctor agreed, and thenfell to eating, and quickly devouring half of theload : at which the doctor’s companions laughed,to see how simply the poor country fellow look¬ed, and to hear how heartily he prayed the doc¬tor to forbear; so Faustus pitying the poorman, went away, and before the man got nearhis house, all the hay was in the cart, that thedoctor had eaten, which made the country fel¬low very much admireIfiCHAP IX.How he struck a parcel of Students who werefighting together, blind ; and how he serveda parcel of Clowns who were singing and ran- 'ting at an inn.*Thirteen Students meeting with seven more,near Dr. Faustus’s house, fell to extremely firstin words and at last to blows; the thirteen be¬ing too hard for the seven, and Dr. Faustuslooking out at his window and seeing the frayand how much they were over matched, conjur¬ed them all blind, so that the one could not seethe other, and in this manner they fought oneanother, which made all that saw them laugh :at length the people parted them, and led themto their chambers, they instantly received theirsight—The doctor coming into an inn with somefriends, was disturbed by the hallowing and baw¬ling of a parcel of drunken Clowns, whereuponwhen their mouths were wide open, he so con¬jured them, that by no means they could shutthem again; and after they had stared one uponanother, without being able to speak, thinkingthey were bewitched, they dropped away in ajoonfused fear, one by one, and never could boigot to the house afterwards.CHAP. X.low Faustus helped a young man to a fair lady.There was a gallant young gentleman whoas in love with a fair lady, living at Wirtem-erg, near the docter’s house, this gentleman hadtong sought this lady in marriage, but could notittain his desire, and having placed his affectionsso much upon her, he was ready to pine away,and had certainly died with grief, had he notmade his address to the doctor, to whom he open¬ed the whole matter. Now no sooner had thegentleman told his cause to the doctor, but he toldhim that he need not be afraid, for his desireshould be fulfilled, and that he should have her,whom he so much desired, and that this gentle¬woman should have none but him, which wasaccordingly done, for the doctor so changed hermind, that she could think of nothing else buthim whom before she hated; and Faustus’s de¬sire was this; he gave him an enchanted ringwhich be ordered him to put into the lady’s hand,18or to slip it on her finger, which he did : and nolisooner had she got the ring than her heart burned!with love to him; she instead of frowns, could doi.nothing but smile upon him, and not be at resttill she asked him if he thought he could lov©her, and make her his wife ? he gladly answered,with all his heart. So they were married the next:day, and all by the help of Dr. Faustus.CHAP. XI..Norv Faustus made seven women dance nakedin the Market place.Faustus walking in the market-place, saw sev¬en women sitting all in a row, selling eggs, but¬ter, &c. Of every one he bought something anddeparted: no sooner was he gone, but all the eggsand butter, were gone out of of their baskets andthey knew not how: at last they were told, thatDr. Faustus had conjured their goods away!they thereupon ran speedily to the Doctor’shouse, and so demanded satisfaction for the ware; ihe resolving to make himself and the town’s peo- bole merry by his conjuring art, made them re- Kturn to their baskets naked as ever they were Jr; -n: and having aanced a while in the marketce every one’s goods were conjured into theirtpets again, and they set at liberty.CHAP. XII.>w Faustus served a Country Fellow who wasdriving Swine.Faustus, as he was going to Wirtembergrtook a Country Fellow driving an hundredine, who were very headstrong some runningway and some another; so that the driverbijuld not tell how to get them drove along : the6j ctor taking notice of it, so by his conjuringlit, he made every one of them dance upon theiro hind legs, with a fiddle in one of their fore3t, and with the other fore foot they played up-4 the fiddle, and so they danced and fiddled alle way until they caine into Wirtemberg mar-t. The driver of them dancing all the wayfore them, which made the people wonder: af-1 r the Doctor had satisfied himself with the spir-jb he conjured all of the fiddles away, and theiver then offered them for sale, and quickly soldr em all, and took the monev ; but before he was20gone out of the house Faustus had conjured a.the hogs out of the market-place, and sent therall home to the driver’s house. The man whbought them, seeing all the swine gone, stoppe:the man who sold them and would have his mon: iey, which he was forced to pay, and so returnehome sorrowful, and not knowing what to doibut to his great surprise, found all the swine ii:their sties.CHAP. XIII.How Faustus bfegun to bethink himself of th»near approach of his end.Faustus having spun out his twenty-four yearswithin a month or twro, began to consider whaihe should do to cheat the devil, but could no:find any v'ay to prevent his miserable end, whiclv7as now near, whereupon he thus cries out t<himself, Oh! miserable vnretch that I am, I have!given myself to the devil, for a few years pleas-:ure, and now I must pay full dear; I have haomy desires; my filthy lusts I have satisfied, anoI must be tormented for ever and ever.A neighbour of his a very good old man hear;ing’ of his way of living, in compassion to hissoul came to him, and with tears in his eyes, be¬sought him to have more regard to his most pre¬cious soul, laying before him the promise of9 God’s grace and mercy, freely offered to repent¬ing sinners, and spake so feelingly that Faustusshed tears, and promised to him, that he wouldI try to repent. This good man was no soonergone away, than Mephostophiles found him pen¬sive and on his bed, now Mephostophiles mus¬tering what had happened, began to reproachhim with breach of covenant to his Lord Luci¬fer, and thereupon almost twisted his neck be¬hind him, which made him cry out very lament¬able ; in the mean time threatening to tear himto pieces, unless he renewed his obligation, whichfor fear, with much sorrow he did, in a mannerthe same as the former, which he confirmed bythe latter.CHAP. XIVHow Dr. Faustus was warned of the Spirit toprepare for his end.. Faustus’s full time being come, the spirit ap-22peared to him, and shewed him his writing, andtold him that the next night, the devil wouldfetch him away, which made the Doctor’s heartto ache : but to divert himself, he sent for someDoctors and master bachelors of arts, and otherstudents to take dinner with him, for whom heprovided great store of varieties, with music andthe like: but all would not keep up his spir¬its, for the hour drew near : whereupon his coun¬tenance changing the doctors and masters ofarts enquired of him the reasons of his Melan-choliness? to which Faust us answered, “ Myfriends, you have known me these many years andhow I have practised all manner of wickedness.I have been a great conjurer, which devilish artI obtained of the the devil; and also to obtainpower to do whatever I pleased I sold myself tothe devil for twenty four years time, which fulltime being out this night, makes me full of hor¬ror ; I have called you my friends, to see this mydreadful end : and I pray let my miserable deathbe a warning to you all, how you etudy the de¬vilish art of conjuring; for if once you begin it,a thousand to one but it will lead you to the dev¬il whither I am this night to go, whether I willor not.” They hearing of this sad story blamedhim for concealing it so long, telling him if hehad made them acquainted before that they; ught it might have been prevented. He told:m he had a desire several times to have dis-I sed this intrigue ; but the devil told him, that!he did, he would presently fetch him away;!!also told them, he hud a desire to join withgodly, and to leave oif that wicked course ;immediately the devil used to come and tor-t him, &c. “ But now, saith Faustus, it isin vain for me to talk of what I did intend,I have sold myself to the devil, body and soulNo sooner had he spoken these words,fi suddenly it fell a thundering and lightening,1 like was never heard; whereupon Faustusjilt into the great hall, the doctors and mas-ti}3 staying in the next room, intending to hearb? end. About twelve o’clock the house shookerribly that they thought it would have beenupon them, and suddenly the houseoldows were broken to pieces, so that they trem-i d and wished themselves elsewhere, whereup-a great clap of thunder, with a whirlwind theIts flew open, and a mighty rushing of windered with the hissing of serpents, shrieks andj s, upon which he lamentably cried out, Mur-i, and there was such roaring in the hall as ifajithe devils in hell had been there. When day-ti it appeared, they took the boldness to enterIf) the room, and found his brains beaten out24against the wall, and the floor sprinkled w?blood; but missing his body they went in sealof it and found it on the dung-hill mangled amashed to pieces. So ended this miseralwrretch’s life, forsaking God, and all goodneiand given up to his implacable enemy whiwe hope may stand not only as a fearful, 1lasting monument and warning to others.