COLLECTION OF THE BESTScottish Songs*LASS OF PAT IE’S MILL;Cn the Yewes .to the Knows.Charlie is my Darling :Y with ME LA JVC 110 L V;ANDShe never blamed him..rniH banndH vrr u ';f!8GLASGOWPrinted foh the Booksellers.; jan/i K:\irm hoSONGS* ' *:(.Hmo/aw\rAv<17 A.i h'[ ': :J . •; : ‘'/IrtShe never Blamed Him.She never blamed him, never.But received him when he came,With a welcome kind as ever.And she tried to look the same;But vainly she dissembled,Fo^ whene'er she tried to smile.A tear, unbidden, trembledIn her blue eye all the while.•She knew that she was dyingAnd she dreaded not her doom;She never thought of sighing0‘er her beauty’s blighted bloom ]Bheknew her cheek was altered,And she knew her eye was dim ;Her voice, though, only falteredWhen she spojte of losing him 1 - i3'Tigttrue that he had lured herFrom the isle where L was born,'Tis true he hadiinsured her ,To the cold world’s cruel scorn;But yet she never blamed himFor the anguish she had known,And though she seldom named him,Yet she thought of him alone.She sighed when he caressed her,For she knew that they must part;She spoke not when he pressed herTo his young and panting heart ‘The banners waved around her;And she heard the bugle’s sound-..They passed—-and strangers found herCold and lifeless on the groundCharlie is my Darling,Charlie is my darting.My darling, my darling,O ! Charlie is my darling,The young Chevalier,Twas on a Monday morning,right early in the yearWhen Charlie came to our town,the young Chevalier,4he came marching up the street,the pipes play'd loud and clearAnd a’ the folk came running out,to meet the Chevalier.r. .sjn'oid 19/ao ad ! li*<lVVi’ Highland bonnets on theis heads,and clamores bright and clear,They came to fight for Scotland's rightAnd the young Chevalier,They’ve left their hdnnie Highland hi'Iis,their Wives and bairnies dear,To draw the sword for Scotland’s lord,the young Chevalier.O Charlie is my datling, &c.sj»', !>r<;-ot atotut-.rlg bnB--J) .saatj yar 1j'incovu no Sioljiii iiUB Lio’JThe Lass of Paties Millvt-' 8i siliedDThe lass of patie’s mill,sae bonnie blyth and gay,In spite of all my skillshe stole my heart away,When tedding making hay.bare-headed on the green.Love midst her locks did play,And wanton’d in her een.»Her arms white, round, and smooth,Breasts rising in their dawnTo age it would give youth,to press them w ith his lian’Through all my spirits ran^ n ecstacy of blissWhen I such sweetness fand,wrapt in a balmy kiss.,-j / " i : '■ .} '.!* 7 ; . o ■- T;;.- ’f> ■'Without the help of art,like flowers which grace the wild.Her sweet she did impart.Whene’er she spoke or smil’dHer looks they were so mild,free from affected pride.She me to love beguil d,I wish’d her for my bride.Oi had I a’ the wealthHopetoun's high mountains ftil!,Insur'd long life and health,and pleasures to my will.I’d promise and fulfil.that none but bonnie sheThe lass of Pane's Millshould share the same with me,t j uodj te •' i- ■■ lit«. 5Ca’ the yowes to the Knovves.Ca’ the yewes to the knowes,Ca’ them whare the heathergrowa,aCa’rtheai whare the burnie rowe»tMy bonnie dearie.Hark1 the mavis’evening sangSounding jClouden's woods anaang;Then a-fau!ding let us gang,My bonnie dearieJ Ca' the, &c."’e’!l gang down by the Clouden side.Thro the hazels spreading wide.O’er the waves that sweetly glide,To the moon sae clearly.Ca’ the, &c.,oli . 8 9'i-i'W yud1 8]iool ' *Yonder Clouden’s silent towers,W here at moonshine midnight hours,0 er the dewy bending flowers,Fairies dance sae cheery.Ca’ the, &c.telnuom a nuoJaqon(ihoist nor bogle shall thou fear;1 In u’rt to love and heaven sae dear,Nocht of ill may come thee near,My bonnie dearie.Ca‘ the. See.,9*rt tmifad o/'j o-ii-iU b o<'. vFair and lovely as thou art,'1 hou bast stolen my very heart;I can die but canna part.My bonnie dearie.Ca' the, &c,70,-This is no my ain Lassie.O thisis .no my ain lassi> ..fair tho' the fassiebe,0 weel kfcn I my ait> lassi«*kind Jove is in her eI seca form, | see a faoe.. '*• ‘ : . ye well may wi- the fairest place.To me it wants the witching grace,the kind love that's in her e’eThis is no, <Src.^nhJ ehiamofl! vaitint^ YJi» :She's bonnie, blooming, straight and tall,and lang has had my heart in thrall,And ayt it charms my verj saul,The kind love that s in her e‘e,This is no( &c.A thief sae pawkie is my Jean, •to steal a blink by a‘ unseen ;But Gleg as light as lover's e'en,when kind love is in the e'e1‘Jin f /This is.no, 8ia./. •: . j. ! , , ,It may escape the courtly sparks,It may tscapn the learned clerks;JZutweel the watching lover marks,The kind love that's in her e‘e ^This is no,8+4ivtty with Melancholy.Away with melancholy,Nor JoJefiil changes, ring’,On life and human folly,But merrily, merrily sing,T al, la l, See.> is ■ Hi'’ nn.vi it am aTvx) ni a'Jfirf} jwoi ftfliJ &itiCome on ye rosy hours,Gay smiling moments bring,We’ll strew the way with dowers,And merrily, merrily sing,Fal, hd, &.c..oA ,o(i ai kirfTFor Avhat’s the use of sighing,-While time is on the wing ?Can we prevent his dying ?I’hen merrily, merrily sing,Fal, lal, See.yhiuoo sol oqfiO'ia yum TI