REMARKABLELIFE AND DEATHOFDAUGHTER OF A RESPECTABLETRADESMAN,RESIDING AT CAMBU8LANG, NEARGLASGOW,WHO WASSEDUCED BY A YOONS SENTLEM.LIKEWISE AN ACCOUNT OF THE CAUSESOF PROSTITUTION,AND THE NUMBER OF HOUSESOF ILL FAME IV SOME OF THE PRINCIPALTOWNS IN ENGLAND AND SCO! LAND.To which is added a Copy of Verses.EDINBURGH.^eF SCOTIA*’ 1TTVX \ : a rqqGQ rtobl o; ft«.*en: ,.(}.■ ■■A!) v ■ !'it hUOHJJXailO.i^itO J.UB AK JlBUK Ob 0OO8F8VIK . JJilBB Yii \CC.OOAJ. Ob li. CVUV-KBganc d BA» ao H3“is»n. vMHO A »R;r ;•; . •;Vt ' / : t.'OtFILE YMD DEYvLHH •: Jl V i. ^VBFE3cAGNES WEBSTERWhere have the “lower classes” learned therice of beating their wives ? Rich people do not; oeat their wives, and gentlemen do not maim their* sweethearts. Yet daily in our streets, and in the! ife of our “ better classes,” is an example whichlomely instincts quickly imitate. A gentlemanneets a poor girl. He does not treat her withi )pen roughness; he knows a better game. He seesi'iier weak in comforts, poor in worldly goods, bare,Imdeed, even of the cheapest pleasures. He strikesit her with the strong temptations of comforts,)clothes, pleasures; and robs her of her honour. Shemecomes the victim of a brutality as gross as that ofohe wretch now on the treadmill for trampling on(m enceinte wife. She loses her chance of decenthiving ; finds the lurthen of a living shame thrown(m her for support ; and is an outcast from then«omes of all good people. If the silly wretch dodttot drown herself, she may accuse the gentleman,fond when the case is fully proved, he is fined half-a-urown a-week. From the class of women thus. .reated the workmen must select their wives ; andl et no wonder that they treat them badly ! We4allow well dressed men to set the pattern, and we cryout for the whip when men in fustian act up to theexample. If the young lady who fhtbg herself intothe water at Southampton the other day had beeninsulted or outraged by a working man-—if her armhad been bruised or her face cut, the revenge of thelaw had been terrible. But she was only betrayedand deserted by a gentleman ; her life and famewere only blasted ; and the gentleman sailed awayto India with flying colours and a gallant reputation.Working men live among people who talk freely ofsuch coarse facts ; they note the facts, and take upthe manly tone. They have not the finesse to se¬duce or the art to betray ; but they gratify theirpassion with bludgeon blow's, or win consent to theirlust by rude force. We are too delicate to talk onthese incidents, and too refined to apply to the evildirect legislation. We gracefully veil the sins ofthe seducers; we do not talk of them in thedrawing room, nor compile statistics of them in theoffice ; but their existence is the current cant in anymeeting of young men. Working men imitate ouractions and follow out our practices in their ownway. It would be wrong to say that a full remedyfor brutality towards woman would be a just punish¬ment of all kinds of outrages upon them committedZcby all kinds of men. We know well that the causeK of this constant crime lies deeper. The many social' customs which cramp woman’s power of earningbread, and the many laws and rules which fetter allill kinds of industry, are among the obvious causesr which place her at the mercy of man; while amaterialised tone of society, making good dinnersi i and strong stimulants the chief good, and innocenttil amusement an oddity, establish the dominance ofll| man, and abridge woman’s domains,—the pleasure-: ground, the ball-room, and the home. But strictequity in meting measure for measure to all who dowrong, would at least mark the public sense ofjustice, and bring a better social tone through thespirit rather than through the letter of a new legis¬lation.Young persons, especially females, are never sosafe as under the inspection of prudent and piousparents ; for their own inexperience and credulity,and the intoxicating nature of flattery, togetherwith the artifice of those who are continually layingsnares for them, expose them to imminent danger.They are therefore their own enemies, if they desiretil to go from home alone, especially among those whoI are strangers to God and true religion ; but thoseparents are much more inexcusable who allow or6encourage their children in acting imprudently:!ray, who do not iuterpose their authority to proven.!;them from heedlessly exposing themselves to unseer!and unsuspected danger. Indulged, because be ploved, children, too, often, like Dinah, become the,shame and grief of their relations. And, indeedijf.large families even when trained up in the fear o |God, will frequently occasion many trials, anxieties!aud sorrows, to their parents; and the grief oilosing them in infancy is transient and tolerablejtcompared with that of seeing them grow up and live*in wickedness. Let parents then rejoice as thoughthey rejoiced not, and submit with resignation i)the Lord bereave them of their beloved offspring;and if their children be spared, let them bring themup for the Lord, and commend them to his graciousprotection. When young women listen to the vileproposals or flattering promises of seducers, theyjnot unfrequently seclude themselves frem every!prospect of forming honourable connexions, andvoluntarily consign themselves to a single life, if stillworse consequences do not ensue ; aud this conside-|ration, combined with nobler motives, should inducetthem to object, with determined indignation andirdisdain, every dishonourable proposal. No sin ismade lighter of by multitudes than lewdness; yet:>;no crime is more injurious to the bodies and soulsof individuals, to the peace and comfort of families,and to the welfare of society, and no sin makes wayfor more horrible consequences, as introductory toall other wickedness. But how will these heathensrise up in judgment against, and condemn thousandsfalsely called Christians, who, having seduced anddefiled the objects of their pretended affection, after¬wards treat them with contempt and hatred, leavethem to the infamy and misery of prostitution,disease, and death ; and without the least compas¬sion for them or their broken-hearted parents, pro¬ceed to add new trophies of their infamous success,and to multiply the victims of their unbridled lusts.Surely Shechem was in this more honourable, notonly than all the house of his father but than all therest of his brethren, the whole tribe of sed ucers,who are in honour and conscience, bound to proposeiand make this only but inadequate reparation,though few of them are willing to do it !| It appears from the statement made by the un-! fortunate Agnes, that she is a native of Cambuslang,i near Glasgow ;—her father and mother having bothi died when she was about 14 years of age. It seemsher father’s death took place somewhat suddenly,ifl caused by apoplexy, leaving her to the care of abrother and step-mother, but they having disagreethe house was given up, and Agnes went to keehouse to her brother. During which time sbbecame attached to a young gentleman nameGeorge Wylie, a companion of her brother. Hoften declared he would marry her but for the inteiference of his parents. He now proposed that sbshould accompany him to Southampton, where theimarriage would take place previous to their departurfor India. But he was determined to effect hr,diabolical designs : the monster made ever preparetion for the voyage, but on the morning they werto sail he made his escape and set sail. My feelingmay be better felt than described : Behold me nora wanderer in the streets of Southampton, withoumoney, or even a place to rest my head; bavin iapplied in vain to my brother for assistance, btreceived no answer from him. I continued to ear ;my bread by sewing to my late landlady, but mimisfortunes soon began. I became acquainted witla young woman—she soon led me into a house cbad fame, where I acted as servant for some time1 soon became acquainted with the horrid lives, amwith the girls of this house. I left for Londonwhere I underwent all the miseries of that horriilife. I then visited some of the principal towns i:So9Europe, attending horse-racea, markets, &c. Ireturned again to Southampton, the scene of mjDast misfortune—there I was seized with fever andent to the hospital. On my recovery I was left to;ny fate, but being determined not to return to thatlife I so much detested, I resolved to commit self-j lestruction that same night I left the hospital. Ittempted to drown myself in the dock, but wasprevented by the people who brought me hero.About a fortnight after I received her statement,had occasion to visit Glasgow, and by a strictarch found Agnes Cree, step-mother of the suf-prer. I was much pleased with this good woman’sueception ; when 1 told her of the situation of her:jtep-daughter she fell into tears, at length she re¬ived to accompany me to Southampton, and in two;ys saw Agnes under the care of one who wouldve been to her a mother, had she but have takenunsel. I will now describe the last interview 1d with this family.I had been three wTeeks in Glasgow, and wasaking ready to leave, for I could see her time wasar at an end ; on entering her room I found her■other and friends kneeling. She stretched outir hand to me and exclaimed, my friend ! We•ayed for her, and in five minutes afterwards sheased to live.10t - ' Causes of Prostitution.^Females are principally led astray from the follow¬ing causes :—One fourth from being servants intaverns and public houses, where they have beenbeen seduced by men frequenting these places ofdissipation and intemperance. One fourth from theintermixing of the sexes in factories and those employed in warehouses and shops. One fourth byprocuresses or females who visit country towns andmarkets for the purpose of decoying good lookinggirls. The remaining fourth may be divided into1three classes :—First, such as being indolent orpossessing bad tempers, and leave their situations.Second, those who are driven to that awful courseby young men making false promises : Third, child¬ren who have been urged by their mothers tobecome prostitutes for a livelihood.1The following is a summary—it refers to thethird-class houses in Leeds, with a population o)1(50,000Number of houses of 111-Fame, 175Average number of Prostitutes, 4 to eachhouse, - - - - 700jNumber of Bullies or.Fancy-Men, - 350Number of Mistresses in said houses, - 175Total living on Prostitution,HOCi'Number of Visits of Men to each Houseweekly, - - - 80( Making weekly visits over all, u - 14-,000The Girls receive on an average i?!, 10sweekly, making the sum of ^1,050.,( Robberies—2s 6d from each visitor is a|] low average, making - - 1,750' Spent on Drink, 2s by each visitor, - 1,400Total for Prostitution weekly, <£’4,200„ ,, annually, <£?218,400'fumber of Unfortunate Girls whodie yearly, , - - - 120The following is the extent of Prostitution inrow :—umber of houses of ill-fame,^iverage number of Prostitutes in all,ll'umber of Bullies or Fancy-Men,Do. Mistresses,iHjotal living on prostitution,i,'umber of visits of men to each house,Waking weekly visits to 450 bouses,be Girls receive on an average <£?! fromeach visitor, making weekly, - .Pi800obberies—2s b'd from each visitor, 4500Iient on Drink by each visitor, 2s 3600otal for Prostitution weekly, 9990„ „ annually, 514,890number of Girls who die annually, 6years being their average lifetime, 300ic average number of different class houses—First, 60; Second, 180; Third, 210.450180013504503,6008036,000A COPY OF VERSES.See the star-breasted' ''illain to yonder cot bound,Where the sweet honeysuckle entwines it around.Yet sweeter, far sweeter, than flowers o’er the scene,Is the poor hedger’s daughter, the pride of the green. I. T tBut more, never more, will she there please all eyes,Her peace of mind withers, her happiness flies,She pauses, sighs, trembles ! and yet dares to roam,The village born beauty, seduced^from her home.From a post chaise and four she’s in London set down,Where, robb’d of her virtue, she’s launched on the. town,Her carriage, her servants, and jewels so gay,Tell how high ske is kept, and o’er them bears the swayAt the Opera, the Playhouse, the Parks, and else¬where, " . «!Her beauty out-rivals each beauty that’s there,And while, big with envy, her downfall they tell,The village horn beauty o’er all bears the bell.But soon, from indifference, caprice, or what not,She’s turned on the world, by her keeper forgot ;Yet fond to he flattered, and fettered in vice,She’s this man’s or that as he comes to her price.^ I .7: IAt length growing stale, all her finery sold.In the bloom of her youth through disease looking old,Forsook by her lovers, and sought for no more, ;The village born beauty becomes a street w— .