\theSHEPHERDESSor THE1\ L P S,A TERTINTERESTING, PATHETIC,ANDMORAL HISTORY.GLASGOW: 07 S BPRINTED FOR THE BOOKSfiEt&R^...*■' tM'2*agaanamangaiiT ioJ A.• •. im /.'! •/ air/fa 75 a- -.YHOT8IH JA^IOM: 7/008A.!.)!^«*ooa auf hot anr/./m? ^ v. A ,. .7^# *r>St&TI1HI SHEPHERDESS OF THE ALPSil*In that part of the Alps, amidst the high mountainsi of Savoy, very near the road that leads from Brianconto Modena,, is a lonely valley, whose solitary aspectij, instils into the minds of all who travel through it a sortof pleasing melancholy. Three hills in the form of ani amphitheatre, on which some shepherds’ huts are scat-i tered at several distances, interspersed with clumps oflofty trees, streams tumbling down the mountains incascades, and pastures ever green, compose the beautifu*landscape of this natural scene.Count Fonroso and his Lady were returning fromfeanee to Italy, when their coach broke down as theywere pissing through the valley, and as the day wasion the decline, they were obliged to look for some placebf cover, where to pass the night. Whilst they ad-riranced towards one of the huts, they perceived a flock)f sheep drove by a shepherdess, whoso walk and airilled them with astonishment, and their hearts with thesweet accent of her melodious voice, which the echoes•epeated in plaintive sounds.| How beautiful’s the setting sun ;a Its daily course now almost run,We can behold its charms ;More pleasing are its fainter rays,Than when in full meridan blaze.Thus it will prove, said she, when, after a painfulaoe, the weary soul arrives at the wished-for gaol, and4 The Shepherdess of the Alps.calmly drops into eternity, to renew its vigour in thepure source of immortality. But alas ! how distant isthe prospect! how slowly it passes away! In sayingthese words, the shepherdess moved on ; her head de¬clined ; with a supineness in her attitude, which gave easeand dignity to her gait and mein. Struck with amaze¬ment at what they saw, and more at what they heard,the Count and Countess redoubled their steps to overtakeher. But what was their surprise, when, undei* thecoarse straw hat and mean apparel, they met with everybeauty, every grace. Pray, child, said the Countess,(finding she endeavoured to shun them,) be not alarmed,we are travellers, and an accident obliges us to ask forshelter till morning in one of your cabins; be so kind asbe our guide. I am very sorry, madam, answered theshepherdess, blushing and casting down her eyes, thatyou will be but ill accommodated, as these huts belongto very poor people. You live here, I suppose, said theCountess, and surely I may put up with the inconve¬niences for one night, when you undergo them continually.There is a wide difference, said the modest shepherdess,I am brought up to it. I cannot believe that, interruptedCount Fonrose, not able any longer to hide his emotion;no—you were not formed for such hardships. Fortuneis unjust, or how is it possible that so lovely a personshould bo reduced to live obscurely in so low and ordi¬nary a dress. Fortune, replied Adelaide, (so was theshepherdess named,) is not to be blamed, but when shedeprives us of what she has given us before. My con¬dition has its sweets for one that knows no other state inlife. Custom and example create wants for the wealthy,which the poor are ignorant of. It may be so with thosethat are born in this solitude, said the Count; but foryou, charming unknown, you are not what you seem tobe: your air, your voice, your language, all betray yourdisguise. These few words you have said, discover anoble soul, and a cultivated education. 0! tell us, lovelycreature, what cruel turn of fate has brought you to thiscondition ? A man under vnisfortunc, replied Adelaide,?Tho Shepherdess of the Alps. 5has a thousand means to extricate himself; hut a woman*in such cases, has no resource but in the honest servitudecand in the choice of one’s master, methinks it is best toprefer the good and virtuous. You are going to soomine, and you will be delighted with tho innocence oftheir lives, and the candour and simplicity of theirmanners.As she \fas still speaking, they arrived at tho hut: itwas divided by a partition from the sheepfold, into whichthe shepherdess turned her flock, counting them overwith the most serious attention, heedless of the strangers,who beheld her with admiration. Tho old folks, suchas presented Baucis and Philemon, received their guestswith the honest, simple courtesy which recalled thogolden age. Wo have nothing to offer you, said thogood woman, but clean straw for your bed, and a heartywelcome to such provisions as heaven affords us, milk,fruit, and oaten bread. On entering the cabin, theywere amazed to see the order and neatness that appearedevery where in so poor a habitation. Their table waswalnut plank, finely polished by frequent rubbing; theircarthern dishes and dairy pans shone with the nicestcleanness; every thing presented the image of contentedpoverty, happy to have wherewith to support the realwants of nature. It is our dear daughter, said the old' woman, that manages all our little affairs. At breakof day, before she leads her flocks to tho hills and dales,whilst they are nipping about our hut the sweet grasssurcharged with tho morning dew, she employs that timein putting every thing in the neat order and manner youl see them placed. What! said the Countess, intcr-!: rupting her, is the shepherdess indeed your daughter ?I| Would to heaven she was, replied tho good creature ;a she is the daughter of my heart, and I have a mother’sfondness for her; but I am not so happy as to havecil brought such perfections into the world, nor are wosj worthy of such honour. Who is she, then ? Whencei came she! What misfortune has reduced her to so lowa station? All that is a secret to us. Three years ago0 Tkt Shepherdess of the A Ips.she came here in the habit of a villager, and offered totend our flock. She would have been welcome to shareour little, without taking upon her that painful task; somuch the sweetness of her person and behaviour engagesour hearts. We could not believe she was bred in acottage. Our questions made her uneasy. We desistedfrom farther enquiry, as they seemed to disturb her. Asour knowledge of her good qualities increased, so did ourrespect; but the more we strove to shew her thatrespect, the more she humbled herself before us. No,never had any child for its parents a more tender regard,a more constant care. She cannot obey, because it isimpossible for us to command ; but she dives into ourhearts, and prevents our wishes when they are scarcelyformed. She is an angel descended from heaven, to bothe comfort of our age. What is she doing now in thesheepfold? asked the Countess. She milks the ewesand she-goats, fosters the young kids and lambs, andgives them fresh litter. The cheese she makes is thoughtdelicious: no doubt for having been pressed with herneat hands. I carry it to the market, and have not nearenough to supply all those that would be my customers.When the dear child is tending the sheep in the pasture,she employs herself in making works of plaited straw,which are admired by every body. I wish you were tosee with what dexterity she weaves the osier plain twigs,and mats the tender flexible rushes. There is nothing,let it appear ever so perfect, but what she can improveupon. You see, madam, continued the good old dame,in all about you is the image of an easy, contented life;it was she that procured it, it was she, this angeliccreature, whose only study is to make us happy. Butis she happy ? said the Countess. She does all she canto make us believe so, said the old paster : but I havemade my dame observe, that she ofttimes returns fromtho pasture with a dejected look, her eyes still moistwith tears ; but as soon as she sees us she affects asmile. It is easy to perceive there is some gnawinggrief that preys upon her heart, the eauso of which weThe Shepherdess of the Alps. Tdare not ask. And then, said the old dame, what con¬cern does she not give me, when, in spite of all our en¬treaties, the dear creature will, in the severest weather,lead abroad her bleating care. A thousand times hateI requested her, in the most earnest mariner, to let monow and then relieve her ; but my requests have neverbeeh complied with. She rises with the sun, conductsthe flock, and does not return till it sets, often shiveringwith cold. How is it possible, my dear parents, shewould l&T, with all the tenderness of a loving child, howis it possible that I should consent to let you leave yourfireside, to be exposed, at your age, to the inclemencyof the season, which I, young as I am, can scarcesupport? At the same time she comes leaded withfagots, which she gathers in the wood ; and when sheSCeS I am troubled at the fatigue she must undergo,Don’t he uneasy, says she, my dear mother, exercisekeeps me warm, and labour is fit for my age. In short,my dear lady, she is as good as she is beautiful. Myhusband and I never speak of her but with tears ofaffection. What if you were deprived of her? said theCountess. Why, answered the old shepherd, We shouldbe deprived of all that is dear to its in the world; but ifshe is to be happier for it, Wo shduld die content, andoiir misfortune would be our comfort. Oh ! may kindheaven heap blessirigs on her head! There are riorie sogreat hut what she deserves. I was in hopes her dearhands would have closed my eyes, for I love her muchmore than I do my life. Adelaide’s Coming in put anend to the conversation. In orto hand she carried a panof milk, and in the Other a basket of fruit; and aftercourtseyiiig with a grace peculiar to herself, she setabout the little household affairs, as if she was not tholeast taken notice of. My dear child, said tho Countess,you give yourself a deal of trouble. Not at all, madam:I endeavour to fulfil the intentions of the best of people,whose servant I am, to treat you in the best manner,with what their little can produce ; but I am afraid,continued she, whiUt she w;ts: spreading on a coarse& The Shepherdess of the Alps.table-cloth as white as snow, that you will but make asorry meal. The bread is brown, but very savoury;the eggs are new laid, the milk fresh drawn, and thefruit fresh gathered, such as the season affords.Diligence, attention, and modest deportment, in everyminute duty of hospitality, were conspicious in thiswonderful shepherdess. After the frugal repast. CountFonrose and his amiable lady retired to rest on the bed,though but of straw, which Adelaide had prepared forthem. Is not our adventure surprising ? Let us en¬deavour, said they, to unravel the mystery of this pre¬tended shepherdess, invite her to accompany us, andmake her happy if we can. At break of day one of theCount’s servants came to let his master know he mightproceed on his journey as soon as his honour pleased, forthe coach was securely repaired. It was ordered upimmediately; but before they left tlrese honest folks, theCountess desired a moment’s conversation with the youngperson who styled herself their servant.Adelaide came to receive her commands. Withoutdesiring to penetrate into the secret of your birth, saidthe Countess, or into whatever is the cause of yourdistress, I feel that I am sensibly interested in all thatconcerns your welfare. It is evident that your courageraises you above your misfortunes, and that you conformyour behaviour suitably to your present circumstances.It is true, your charms and your virtues render yourcondition designed for you. It is in my power, amiableunknown, to alter it, as the Count’s intentions are quiteagrceblo to mine. I w ant a bosom friend: and from whatI have seen in you, I shall think myself possessed of aninestimable treasure, if you consent to be my friend andcompanion. Drive from your thoughts the least shadowof dependance. You were not formed for servitude,and should my fond prejudice deceive me, I wTouldrather lift you above your birth than leave you below it.In short, I seek a real friend, one that I can confide in.Be not under any concern about these good people:I shall make up for their loss; at least so far as to9The Shepherdess of the Alps.enable them to pass the remainder of their days in peaceand plenty; and from your hands they shall receive myconstant bounty. The poor old folks, who were present,fell on their kness and kissed the Countess’ hand, thenturning to Adelaide, they conjured her, in the mostpressing terms, to accept the lady’s generous proposal.We cannot, at our time of day, he far from the grave,and as it has been your constant study to make our liveshappy, so must our death leave you comfortless in thisi solitary place. The shepherdess embracing them, and1 mixing her tears with theirs, returned a thousand thanksto their noble guests, with a sweetness that increased hercharms. I canuot, said she, accept of your favour;heaven has marked my destined lot, and I submit to it:but I shall always with the most grateful heart acknow-ledge your goodness; and the name of Fonrose will neverbe absent from my memory. The only thing I requestof you is to bury this adventure in eternal silence, andnever to reveal the fate of an unknown person, wlio isdetermined to live and die in oblivion. The Count andJ Countess redoubled their solicitations, but all in vain—she was immoveable. The travellers parted from their(charming shepherdess, to retirement.During their journey, their conversation was taken upwith this strange adventure, which appeared to them likea romance. They arrived at Turin, their imaginationfull of it; and you may be sure their desired silence: could not be observed. The charms and virtues of thisl unknown shepherdess was an inexhaustible source ofreflection and conjectures. Young Fonrose, their onlyson, was often present at their conversation, and never lotii single circumstance escape his memory. Ho was offliat age when imagination is most lively, and the heart> inost susceptible of receiving tender impressions; but wasH>f the character of those who keep the feelings of theirjj;ensibility within themselves, and which are so mucholuore violently agitated when they burst from their con-ti pnement, as they have never been weakened by anydissipation. All the wonders ho hoard related of th«10The Shepherdess of the Alps.valley of Savoy, raised in his soul the most passionate |desire of serving her. The object which his imagination |lias formed, is ever in his mind. He compares it to a}l |he sees, and all ho sees is lost in the comparison. The imoj-'O his impatience increased, the more he took cave to jdisguise it. Turin became insupportable: the valley |where the inestimable jewel was hid, was the loadstone Ithat attracted his heart; there he placed all his happi-1ness; but knew not how to get at it. If his designs arefound out, what difhculties to surmount! His parentswill never consent to the journey he intends: it will notbe looked upon as the mere ertects of curiosity, butbo deemed a youthful folly, that may have bad con¬sequences ; and the shepherdess may be alarmed at his !presence, and shun his addresses; if it is discovered, heloses her for ever. After three months’ struggle, he gdetermined to quit all for her alone ; and, under thedisguise of a shepherd, find her out in the lonely valley,and there remain till death, if he could not prevailon her to leave it. lie disappeared. His father andmother missed him with great consternation, and waitedhis return with the greatest impatience. Their appre¬hensions increased more and more ; and his absencecontinuing, the whole family was plunged into desola- ■■tion. Their fruitless search and enquiries completedtheir distress; till at last these unfortunate parents arereduced to lament the loss of their only child. Whilsttho afflicted family of Fonrose was in this dejection,the youth arrived in tho valley which had beendescribed, and, in the habit of a peasant, presentedhimself tp some of tho neighbouring cottagers, andofferpd his services. His ambition is satisfied. Heis accepted of, and a flock is committed to his care.At first he only followed the sheep wherever they choseto feed, in hopes that chance would direct him to thesame pastures where the solitary shepherdess fed herflock. The unhappy, at some times, thought he, maylisten fo the voice of comfort. It is an aversion tothe world, and the desire of a retired, quiet life, thatllThe Shepherdess of the Alps.detains her here. She will experience some tedioushours, when she will not be displeased to meet with afriendly intercourse, nor avoid a virtuous conversation.If 1 prove so happy as to make mine agreeable, I shallhave great hopes of something more. If I gain herconfidence, friendship will follow, of course; and friend¬ship in different sexes, is nearly allied to love.Whilst he indulged himself with these pleasing re¬flections, his eyes wandering on the beautiful scenes ofthe valley, lie heard at some distance, the very voicewhose melody he had been so often told of, whichraised an emotion in his heart as great as if it hadbeen an accident unexpected. She sung the followingwords:—Sweet Solitude! to which I fly,Of every bliss bereft;There affliction’s cup enjoy,The only boon that’s left.These melancholy complaints pierced Fonrose’s tender heart. Ah! whence the grief that consumes her !what pleasure to afford her comfort! He durst not asyet raise his hopes any higher. It might perhaps alarmher, if he yielded to his impatient longing to behold her;it was sufficient for the first time to have heard thesweetness of her voice. Next morning Fonrose went tothe pastures, and having observed which way the lovelyshepherdess directed her flock, he sat himself at the footof the rock, which the day before had echoed with hermoving sounds. Fonrose, with all the grace of outwardform, possessed every talent, every endowment that thenobility study to attain. He played upon the hautboyas well as Beluzzi, of whom he had learned, and whowas at that time the delight of the courts of Europe.Adelaide, absorbed in melancholy, had not yet begunher melodious strains. The echoes were silent; whenon a sudden that silence was interrupted by the sweetnotes of Fonrose’s hautboy. A harmony sc uncommonfilled her with amazement, mixed with some emotion.12The Shepherdess of the Alps.Her ears bad never there been struck before but withthe shrill squeak and buzzing hum of the rustic bagpipe.Motionless, with deep attention, she cast her eyes around,*0 find out from whence proceeded such divine music.She perceived at some distance, a young shepherd sittingin the cavity of a rock, at the foot of which his sheepwere feeding. She drew somewhat nearer, that shemight hear him play'tnore distinctly. Behold, said she,the effects of instinct! The car alone has given thisshepherd all the fineness of that charming art ! whatpurity in the notes! variety in the modulations! whatlire and neatness in the execution! who then shall say,that taste is not the gift of nature ?Adelaide, for the first time since her retirement, felther grief in some measure suspended. Fonrose, whosaw her approach nearer, and sit down under a willow,to listen more conveniently, had given her no room tothink ho had perceived her: he took the opportunity,as soon as she retired, to calculate the place of her flock,so as to meet her without affectation, at the bottom ofthe hill, where the road that led to their different hutscrossed each other. He gave her a look in a seeminglycareless manner, as if ho was wholly taken up with theguidance of the sheep: but ah! what beauties weregazed on in that look! what eyes! what a mouth!what divine features! so moving in their languor! howravishing would they appear in one animated with love!Affliction had added paleness, and freed, in some degree,the blooming carnation of her cheeks. But of all charms,none struck him with so much admiration, as her elegantshape and air. Her easy motion was that of a youngcedar, whose straight and plain stem yielded to the softimpulse of the zephyrs. The charming image whichlove engraves in his heart, takes up his thoughts, and fillsIds soul with irresistable passion. How faintly, said he,was she described: the lovely beauty is unknown to theworld, whose admiration she deserves. She that wouldgrace a throne, lives under the thatch of a cottage, em¬ployed in the low occupation of tending the flocks!—in13The Shepherdess of the Alps.iwliat poor garments does she appear! But sho em-jbellishes every thing, and nothing can commend her.fWhat! so delicate a frame made for such a laboriouslife! homely food! straw her bed! 0 heavens! she hasllho thorns, for whom do you preserve the roses! Sleeptout a stop to those flattering ideas, but did not banish■rom him her lovely image.Adelaide felt herself somewhat touched with Fonrose’g(youth and comeliness, nor could she help reflecting onthe capricious turns of fortune. For what end, thoughtehe, has nature endowed this young shepherd with such(graces! Alas! those gifts, haply useless in his station ofilife, might prove a source of misery in a higher station.IfWhat is outward form! what is beauty! wretched as Iiam, is it for me to fix their value? This icflection im-Ibittered the little rising pleasure sho had indulged. Sho(reproached herself for having yielded to it, and resolvednever to give way to it again.Next day, Fonrose imagined that she affected to avoidhis coming near her. He was cast down at the verythought Does she suspect my disguise? Have I dis-icovered myself? These uncertainties perplexed hismind. His hautboy was neglected. Adelaide was notfar distant, but could have heard the sounds, had hoplayed upon it. She could not guess the meaning of itssilence, and began to sing, in her old melodious strains,—Ye prettj Urdu, whole pensive uoteeMy lamentation* join;Ah! whut avails your warbling throats,Can they soothe woes like mine tAll seem around to share my grief,As if to assuage my pain ;But mine admits of no relief.And comfort speaks in vain.Fourose, moved to his inmost soul with her complain¬ing, so melodiously expressed, could not refrain fromtaking up bis hautboy. She continued, and he accom¬panied her sweet voice.14The Shepherdess of the Alps.fvqver was a unison more harmonious. Is this aitenchantment! said Adelaide. May I believe,my seuseslit is no mean shepherd! it is some supernatural bein!|that I have been listening to! Nature may give a ventlbut great masters and constant practice alone can reac}to such perfections. As she was thus musing, the valjejresounded with a rural or rather divine symphony; Ade¬laide imagined she saw realized those prodigies whicllpoetry attributes to music, her brilliant sister. Asto¬nished and confused, she could not determine whethoito approach or retire. Meanwhile the young shepherdwas collecting his flock, to lead it back to the cottage.He is not conscious, said she, of the pleasure he commu¬nicates around: he is not the least vain of his perfection;he docs not expect the praises I owe, which are so justlyhis due. Such are the sweets of music! it is the onlytalent that finds enjoyment in itself: all others must havewitnesses, or else partakers. Music was a gift fromheaven, bestowed upon man in his state of innocence: itjs the purest of all pleasures, and the only one that 1 canyield to. I look upon this as an echo, that comes to re¬peat my grief.Fonrose, in his turn, affected to avoid her. Adelaidewas concerned at it. Alas ! said she, I give myself uptoo easily to the little comfort I felt: I am deprived ofit for my punishment. One day they met as if bychance, Shepherd, said she, do you lead your flocks toany great distance ? These words uttered from hersweet lips, caused in Fonrose’s heart such an emotion asalmost deprived him of his voice. I cannot tell, repliedlie, with hesitation, it is not 1 that lead my sheep, it ismy sheep that lead me; they are better acquainted thanI am with these pastures, and I lot them range whereverthey please .to go. From whence came you? said Ade¬laide. I was born on the other side the Alps. Andwere you brought up to a shepherd’s life? No doubt,since i am one, I was destined for it. That is what Ican scarce believe, she replied, gazing on him with fixedattention: your talents, your language, your air, all con-The Shepherdess of the Alps.15viqce me to the contrary. You are very good, answeredF on rose; does it become you to tax nature for bestowinglief favours with a sparing band on those of your condi¬tion—you, whom she has formed more for a queen thana shepherdess. Adelaide blushed and waved the dis¬course. The other day, said she, your hautboy accom¬panied my voice with such a masterly art, as must seema prodigy in one brought up to feed the flocks. It is toyour singing, replied Fonrpse, that is so rare in a simpleshepherdess. Yv'hat! were you never instructed ? Likeyou, I have no other guide than my heart and my ear.You sung_I was moved—what my heart feels, my in¬strument expresses—J breathe it in-my very soul. Thatis all my secret—nothing is more natural. It is incre¬dible, said Adelaide. I thought so too, replied he, whilstlistening to your voice, and now I am convinced of it:though sometimes nature and love will frolicsomely be¬stow their choicest favours on the meanest objects, toshew there is no condition, be it ever so low, but whatthey can ennoble.Whilst they thus discoursed, advancing in the valley,Fonrose, animated by a small ray of hope, began to makoit resound with rapturous notes that pleasure inspires.-—Ah! cease, cried Adelaide, spare me the image of asentiment I never more shall taste. This solitude is con¬secrated to grief; all here join with my lamentations. Iam not without woes, said the young shepherd, fetchinga deep sigh, which was followed by a pause of silence.What has caused your afflictions ? of what do you com¬plain ? is it of mankind ? is it of fate ? I really cannottell. All that I know is, that I am far from being hap¬py—pray inquire no fartber into my situation. Hearme, said Adelaide: Heaven has made us acquainted tobe a mutual support to each other’s woes ; mine are aburden, under which my heart sinks down even to de¬spondency. Whoever you be, if you are unhappy youare compassionate,—t believe you are worthy the con¬fidence I shall repose in tthat the confidence shall be Teeinrocal■on; but you must promise me).e reciprocal. Alas! said Fon-1GTIm Shepherdess of the Alps.rose, my woes are of a nature perhaps never to be relieved.Meet me to-morrow, said Adelaide, at the foot of the hill,under the spreading oak where you heard me moan. Iwill there reveal what will excite your pity. Theyparted. Fonrose passed the night with great inquietude;his fate depended on what he was to hear; he dreadedthe discovery of a tender unhappy passion. If she loves,I am undone.Ho set out to the rendezvous, and the fair shepherdessarrived soon after. The morn was overcast with clouds,as if nature had presaged their sorrowful conversation.—•They seated themselves under the oak ; when, after aprofound sigh, Adelaide thus beganTHE STORY OF HER WOES.it"ill)“ Beneath those stones you see there, almost coveredwith the creeping grass, lie the remains of a most faith¬ful and virtuous man, whom my love and imprudencebrought to the grave. I was born in France, of a weal¬thy family, and of high distinction ; too wealthy, to mymisfortune. Count Oroston conceived for mo the mostpassionate, tender love, to which my heart correspondedwith equal warmth. My parents objected to our union,and refused their consent. Hurried on by my passion,I agreed to private marriage, sacred to virtuous souls,but disapproved by laws. Italy then was the seat ofwar. My husband was ordered to join the corps he wasto command ; and 1 went with him as far as Briancon.There my foolish fondness prevailed on him to stay withme three days, which he passed with extreme reluctance.I sacrifice, said he, my duty for you. But what had Inot sacrificed for him!“ He afterwards set out with a foreboding that terri¬fied me. I accompanied him to this valley, where wetook leave of each other, and I returned to Briancon.In a few' days a report of a battle was spread about. Iwas sure my dear Oreston was there. I wished it forhis honour ; I feared it for my love. When 1 receivedThd Shephcrdets of the Alps. 17a letter from him, (which afforded me great comfort,) itinformed me, that on such a day, such an hour, I shouldfind him in the valley, under the same oak where I hadbid him farewell; that he should be alone, and desiredto meet me unaccompanied, adding, that he only livedfor me. I saw nothing in his letter hut his impatience tosee me ; and that impatience was to me very flattering.I was exact to the appointment. Mr Oreston receivedme in the most tender manner. Ah! my dear Adelaide,said he, you would have it so. I have failed in my dutyat the most important crisis of my life. What I fearedis come to pass. The battle was given, my regimentcharged, and performed wonders of valour, and I was notat its head. I am dishonoured for ever—lost withoutrisk—I have but one sacrifice more to make you, whichI am come to consummate. At these words I pressedmy dear husband in my arms. I felt my blood congealin my shivering heart. I fainted dead away. He tookthat opportunity to perpetrate his design; and I was calledto life again by the report of the fatal pistol that gave himhis death. How can I paint the cruel situation in whichI was left! it cannot bo described. These tears, thatmust for ever flow ; the sighs which suffocate my voice,give but a faint idea of my distress. I passed the nightover the bloody corpse, quite stupified with grief. Myfirst thoughts were, as soon as I was able, to bury it andi my shame together. These hands dug his grave! I do notmean to move your compassionate heart—But the mo¬ment in which the earth was to separate me from thatdear remains, was a thousand times more dreadful thancan be that which divides the body from the soul. De¬pressed with grief, deprived of food, my feeble handswere two days employed in performing this last sad duty ;and I then formed a determined resolution, to remain insolitude till deatli unite us. Gnawing hunger preyedupon my vitals, and I thought myself criminal in pre¬venting nature from supporting a life more insupportableto me than death. I changed my dress for that of asimple shepherdess, and I look upon this valley as myIS The Shepher&fas 6f Atpt.only asylum. Ever since I hate had no other comfort,but that Of weeping over this grave, which I hope willWiIWMrff dNLOcna* ®rf* t®bn« .vslkv edi ni mid b«8“ You She tyifh what' sincerity I open fo you tny in¬most sotih—Ilhhceforth I may weep in your presencewithout restraint—a relief my overburdened heart standsmuch in need of—I expect you will put the Same confi¬dence in me, as that I have reposed in you.—Don’t imhagiife that I ani imposed upon. I am certain that yenare ho mOro a shepherd, than I am a shepherdess. Yonare young, perhaps in love ; for if I guess' aright, oiir mis¬fortunes flow from the same source. The similitude ofout conditions will make us feel the more for each other.Tlook upon you as one whom heaven, moved with myafflictions, has sent into this solitude to save me from de¬spair. I look upon you as a sincere friend, capable ofgiving, if not satisfactory advice, at least a firm exam¬ple of true resignation to the Divine will.”Ah ! madam, said Fonrose, overwhelmed with whathe heard, whatever tender sensibility my heart is proneto feel, you are far from imagining with what deep con¬cern the recital of your woes has affected me—the im¬pression will remain as long as life." What! must Ihave a secret, nay, even a thought reserved from you—-from you, who have a right, after what you have' en¬trusted me with, to Scrutinize Uiy very soul ? But as Itold you before, and as my foreboding heart apprehended,such is the nature of my woes, that I am doomedto conceal them in eternal silence. Be not offended;charming friend, at a silence which is my greatest tor¬ment. You are very unhappy: but I am more unhappystill. TO he your constant companion: I’ll endeavour tomitigate your sorrows, and help to ease you in an em¬ployment too laborious for your delicate frame. Let mebe a partaker of your grief; and when I behold youweeping over the tomb, I shall mix my tears with yours.You never will have cause to repent having depositedyour secret in an unfortunate heart, that feels all thevalue of its trust. 1 do repent it already, said Adelaide,The Shepherdess of the Alps. $9With some confusion, and retired without further dis¬course. In her abrupt departure, she saw in Fonrose’scountenance all the tiitfres of an affected mind. Alas!said sT)»o, I have renewed his sufferings. 0 whatsufferings they must be that can grvo him groundsto think himself more unhappy thaiiL am ? No moremusic, no more conversation. They neither seethedto seek nor shun each other. Looks that spoke tlieir'[thoughts were all their language—It was very ex¬pressive.When ho found her weeping over her husband’sgrave, he beheld her in mute attention, full of jealousy,grief, and pity, till her groans were echoed by his. Afew days were past in this painful conflict, when Ade¬laide took notice how the young man wasted away, likea blooming flower just blasted by some malignantplrtnet. The grief that consumed1 him gave her much! concent, as not being entrusted With what occasioned hisStrouble; it was out of her power to administer anyiComfoft. She little knew that she was the cause of hislidistress. It is an observation founded on nature, that•when the soul admits of two passions, they will of courseweaken each other. Adelaide’s regrfct for the love ofOrestoil grew less in proportion as licr pity increasedfor the young shepherd. She was sufe that her pityproceeded from no motive, but what the most innocentfriendship suggested ; nor did ever it occur not to giveway to it; for seeing the youth plunged in so settleda melancholy, she thought it incumbent on her, afterwhat she had professed for him, not to leave himany longer to himself. Unhappy youth ! su’.d she, thofirst time they met after her resolve, you perish daily,and give me the fruitless concern of beholding you con¬sume away, and not be able to afford you any comfort.If the recital of my imprudent conduct has not alteredyour opinion of me ; if the most sincere friendship isdear unto you ; in short, if it will not make me moreunhappy than I was before our acquaintance, tell me, Ii conjure you, tho cause of your afflictions. Was your20 Tha Shephirdm of (ho Alps.secret jet more important than mine ? You need notapprehend that I will ever divulge it. Oreston’s deathis an eternal barrier betwixt the world and me. The:secret of jour woe, which I desired to be acquaintedwith, and for jour sake, not for mine, would have beendeposited in my husband’s tomb, with his faithfulwidow, and jour sincere friend.I hope, said Fonrose, it will be mj fate to die first.Ah! madam, let me end my deplorable life, withoutleaving jou to reproach joursclf with having shortenedit. O heavens! she cried, what, 1 ? Can I have con¬tributed to increase the woes under which jou perish.Ease mj tortured heart, and tell mo what 1 have said,what I have done to aggravate jour affliction! Speak,I saj, jou have revealed too much to hide jourself anjlonger—I do insist upon knowing who jou are. Sincejou will force from me so peremptorilj the fatal secret,know that I am—that I am Fonrose, the son of thosejou latelj filled with admiration and respect. All thatI have heard them relate of jour virtue and jour charms,inspired me with the rash design of seeing jou underthis disguise. I have seen jou, and mj fate is fixed.I have left mj familj in the deepest distress. Thejthink that I am for over lost: thej lament mj death, iI know what is jour attachment here ; and I haveno other hope but to die adoring jou. Forbear to giveme anj useless advice : my resolution is as immoveable (as jour own. If bj betrajing mj confidence jou divulgemj secret, jou will onlj disturb the last ebbings of mj tdeclining life, and will have to impute mj death tojourself. Astonished at what she had heard, Adelaideendeavoured to soothe joung Fonroso’s despair. I willrestore him, said she, to his afflicted parents, and savetheir onlj hope from death. Heaven has procured mo >this opportimitj to acknowledge their goodness: where- »fore she diligentlj emplojed everj means the most .insinuating friend could suggest to calm and comfort jhim. Sweet angel! cried Fonrose, I see with what re- ,luctance jou are forced to make anj one wretched ; jour j21The Shepherdess of the Alps.heart is devoted to him that lies in that tomb, no poweron earth can draw it away ; I see with what condo-! scension your virtue attempts to veil your unhappiness ;I feel your goodness in full extent; I sink under it, andI forgive you. Your duty is never to love me, and mineis to adore you for ever.Adelaide, impatient to put in execution the design shehad formed, arrived at the hut. Father, said she, to theold Pastor, do you think yourself able to undertake ajourney to Turin ? I want a person that I can rely on,1 to carry the Count and Countess Fonrose intelligence ofwhat concerns their whole happiness. My zeal, said theold man, to serve them, will give me strength equal| to my inclination. Go, then, continued she, youwill find them at present lamenting the death oftheir only child. Inform them that ho is living;and that it is the poor Adelaide that will restore him to!! their arms. But at the same time tell them, there is anindispensible necessity of their coming in person to fetchhim. He set out" immediately, and arrived at theCount’s house in Turin. He sent in word, that the oldman of the valley of Savoy was come to wait on them.Ah! cried the Countess, perhaps some misfortune hasbefallen our lovely shepherdess! Bid the oldman enter,said the Count; who knows but Adelaide consentsIto come and live with us! It would be, replied the1 Countess, the only comfort I can taste after the lossof my son. The old man is introduced, he embracedtheir knees—they raise him to their arms. You weep,said he, for the death of your son, and I am come) to inform you, that ho is alive. It is our dear child thati has discovered him in the valley, and dispatched me toI communicate to you this interesting news ; but she saysthat yourselves, and only you, can bring him back.Whilst ho was speaking, the Countess fainted away,a overcome with surprise and joy. The Count callsd for assistance. She revives. They embrace the oldI ghopherd by turns, and acquaint the whole family withI the subject of their transport. How shall we show ouf22The /Shepherdess of the Alps.gratitude ? said the Countess. How can wo requite a Ibenefaction that restores us to life? They set out uimmediately on their journey, and arrived with the jgreatest expedition. They left their equipage at somedistance, and walked to the hut through the valley that |contained all that was dear to them Adelaide was Jtending the flock, as usual. The old dame conducted |them to the place where she was. How great was theirsurprise, when they beheld their beloved son with theshepherdess, under the habit of a simple pastor! Theirhearts discovered him more than their eyes. Ah! cruelchild, cried Fonrose’s mother, throwing her arms abouthis neck, what trouble you have given us. What couldinduce you to leave your affectionate parents ? What is jyour business here ? To adore what yon yourselfso much admired, said Fonrose. Madam, said Adelaide, ,whilst Fonro'so embraced his father’s knees, j^ou wouldnot so long have been a prey to grief, had 1 discoveredsooner your dear son. After the first effusions of naturewere over, Forirose relapsed into his former melancholy.Come, Said the Countess, let us go and repose ourselvesin the cabin, and forget the woes this young madmanhas plunged ns in. It is very true, said Fonfose, to liilfather, who led him by the hand; what else but the de¬privation of my rcasoh could suspend the emotions ofnature, and make me forget the most * sacred duties ?What but madness? You innocently gave rise to it, and ’I am sincerely punished, for I am in love with the mostamiable and accomplished person in the world. * Youhave Seen but little of hef ; you know but little of thisincomparable lady. Honour, virtue, and sensibility!she unites all that is great and good. I dote upon her toidolatry. I cannot bo happy without her, and she nevercan be mine. Has she trusted you, said the Count,with the secret of her birth? I have learned enough,replied Fonrose, td assure you it is not inferior to mine..She has renounced a considerable fortune in the world,to remain in this solitude. Do you know what motivehas induced her to it ? I do ; but it is a secret whichThe Shepherdess vf the Aljlt. 2%i e alone can reveal. Is she married ? No ; she is a: idow ; but her heart is not the less engaged, nay, it islther bound with stronger chains. Madam, said theaunt to Adelaide, as they had entered the cabin, youe how you turn the heads, as well as captivate all thatjar the name of Fonrose. Nothing could have justifiedj son’s extravagant passion, but so virtuous, so lovingit object. My wife’s utmost wishes were to have youjjr a friend; my son cannot live without you for a wife;jid it would be my greatest happiness to have you for aftughter. Oli! consider how many that love youould be wretched, if you refuse your consent. Ah!ji’, replied Adelaide, your goodness perplexes me; lendlie awhile your attention, and judge my situation. Shelien, in the presence of the old folks, related herlid story, adding the name of the family, which theipuut was well acquainted with ; and she finishednr narration by taking him for a witness of the in-mlable fidelity she owed her husband. At these words:: consternation appeared in their looks. Young Fon-cse, bursting with grief, threw himself into a corner of|ie hut, to give vent to his sorrows. • His afflicted fatherid himself down by him, casting ins eyes on Adelaide,iadam, said lie, behold the .effect of your resolutiori.ho Countess pressing her in her bosom, Ah ! will you,ion, said she, give us cause to lament a second time theiftth of our dear, child! Why did you restore him to(! The good old people, penetrated with what theyw and heard, their eyes fixed on Adelaide, waited forjr determination.. Heaven knows, says she, I wouldqlingly give up my life to acknowledge all this un-ouuded generosity. I own it would be, the height Ofi tisery, if I had to upbraid myself of having been the>4uso of yours. I leave the decision of our fate to mu*n—let me have a few minuses’ conversation with him.i hen retiring by themserves, FonrOsb, ?aid she, jbunow what sacred rites bind me here. If I could cease* lament the loss of hipj who loved and doted on me?cn beyond discretion', I should be deservedly despised.34The Shepherdess of the Alps.Friendship, gratitude, and esteem, are all I have left tejjgive; and is that a compensation for love ? The moralyou havo conceived for me, the more right you have tc|expect a suitable return, and what return can I make'The impossibility of performing that duty is the object ithat prevents my making myself liable to it; nevertholess, I behold you all in a situation that would softerthe most obdurate heart. Mine, alas! is but too sensible!I cannot bear the shocking thought of being the caus<of your distress. How can I hear your generous, worthyparents, reproach me with their loss. I will, therefore Iforget for a while what I am, and leave you to bo thtarbitrator of my destiny. It is yours to decide, amchouse which is most agreeable to you, either to conqueyour passion, and strive to forget me, or take the han<|iof one whoso heart is possessed by another object *1has nothing to bestow but friendship and esteem—andwhat are they to satisfy a lover’s ardent expectations *It is enough, replied he, tenderly, such exalted friendiship equals love. I may, perhaps, be jealous of th|tears I shall see you shod for a former husband, but thlcause of my jealousy will only make you more estimabllin my eyes, and dearer to my soul. She is mine! criedFonrose, precipitating himself into his fond parentsarms. It is to the respect and gratitude she has for yoithat I owe my happiness, and it is owing to a superioBeing. Adelaide could not appeal from the sentenceDid she consent merely through pity and gratitude ?believe she did—she believed it herself, and I will nocease to admire her.Before she left the valley, she would revisit the tombwhich she quitte^ with regret. O my dear Orestonshe cried, if from the mansions of the dead thou canshave seen my struggles, and read the bottom of mheart, thy shade will not murmur at the sacrifice J mal$to comfort a virtuous family.TUB BHD,