■ / 'JsC* C*- 2S ‘THES* ‘S SyYoung Cottager:OR, ANACCOUNT OFJANE SEYMOUR,The Daughter of ignorant and irreligiousParents.his Tale illustrates the advantages of early piety, by givingSa minute account of the Young Cottager’s conversion;—herillness;—the consolations she derived from her spiritual con¬versations with a pious Minister;—and her calmness andiresignation in the hour of death.KILMARNOCK, iPrinted by H. Cranford, BooffseUer,^ Tf ....Or.^OinjruB09THEYOUNG COTTAGER.was the daughter of poor parents;TANKts in the village where it pleased God first t<cast my lot in "the ministry, My acquatntanct'4V'with her commenced when she was twelve yean ;of age, by her weekly attendance at my houseamongst a number of children whom I invited;and regularly instructed, every Saturday eveningThey used to read, repeat catechisms, psalms;hymns, and pottions of Scripture. I accustomedthem also to pass examination, according to theirage and ability, in those subject$| by which I hopedto see them wise unto salvation.On the summer evenings, I frequently used tcassemble this little group out of doors in; nay gar¬den, sitting under the shade of some trees, whichprotected us from the heat of the sup. Fronrhence a scene appeared, which rendered my oc¬cupation tile more interesting. For, adjoiningthe spot where we sat, and only separated from u;by a fence, was the church-yard, surrounded withbeautiful prospects tn every direction.Little Jane used constantly to appear on theseweeklv seasons of instruction. I made no verjparticular observations concerning her during thefirst twelve months or more after her first commencement of attendance. She was not then re:markable for any peculiar attainment. On tb2I whole, l used to think her rather more slo-iy ot,i apprehension than spme of her companions. Shei usually repeated her tasks correctly, but w'.as §el-|dpm able to make any answers to such questionsas she was not previously prepare/) to reply tg.Jier countenance was not engaging, her eye ex-ihibited no observable liveliness, bhe read tp]er-iably we}l tpok pams, and improved in it.Jdildnesf an4 quietness marked hfr general de?meaner. She was very constant m her attendancepn public worship at the church, gs well as on jnyiSaturtjuy school at hpme. But, generally fcpeak-■jifng, she was little noticed, .ejepept for her regular•find orderly conduct- Had j tken been asked ofthich pf my young schplarfi J had formed theost favourable opinion, poor Jane might probablyagve been oniittpd jq the list.I Once, indeed, during the latter part of ljut• rear, I was struck vyhh her ready attention to myiivishes.—-J had &ent Itpr into the church-yard toommit tornepory an epitaph jyhicb I admired.—)n her return jshe told me, thgt in addition to what: had desired, she had also learned another m-• ’pribed on an adjoining stone^ addling that shefought it a very pretty‘one, it is as /oTlpws.I Ft must be so—Our Fattier Adam’s fall| And disobedience brought this lot on all.Ali die in liim>—But hofclf-as (Should W* be>I Blest p.e.vtlati|Dhi! were it not for t^e.f I , HaiJ, jglorj.otjs gospeli beaveuTy'ligjit, whereby( "'.ye live with comfort, and with comfort die;; And view-beyond this gloomy scene, the tomb, •* ,‘ A life of endless happiness to come.IJ afterwards discovered that the evangelical|j|ntin)ent expressed in the latter epitaph had naudiected her. But r;1 tfi? period of this little in$l-dent, I knew nothing of her mind. I had com¬paratively overlooked her. I have otfen been verysorry for it since.I was young myself in the ministry, and youngerin Christian experience.I was then quite a learner, and had much tolearn.And what am I how ?—A learner still, and ifI had learned any thing, it is this, That I haveevery day more and more yet to learn.Of this I am certain, that my yOilng scholar;soon became my teacher. I first saw what true .religion could accomplish in witnessing her experience of it. The Lord once ‘ called a little;child unto him, and set him in the midst of hisdisciples,’ as an emblem and illustration of hidoctrine. But the Lord did more in the case olittle Jane! He not only called her, as a childto show, by a similitude, what conversion meansbut he also called her by his grace to be a vesse-of mercy, and a living witness , of that Almightjpower and love by which her own heart was cont j,verted to God.It was about fifteen months from the first pericof her attendance on my Saturday school, wheiI missed her customary place. Two or threweeks had passed without my making any part:cular inquiry respecting her. I was at length irformed that she was not well. However, appnbending no peculiar cause for alarm, near twmonths passed without mention of her name beirmade.At length a poor old woman in the, villagwhose religious,disposition I had good hopes, canand said to me, sir, hava you not missed Jaig - - - at your house on Saturday afternoont'' Yes, I replied, I believe she is not well.-,,* Nor ever will be, I fear, said the old woman,i What! do you- apprehend any danger in the!las<VSir, she is very poorly indeed, and I think is in11 decline. She wants to see you, sir, but is afraiddou would not come to see such a poor and young! .hild as she is..^ Not go, where poverty, youth, and distress may|all me ! How can she imagine so? At whichi;j.ouse does she live ? .]}<;;; Sir, it is a poor place, and she is ashamed toIsk.you to come there. Her near neighbours are; oisy, wicked people, and her own father and! mother are strange folks. They all make gamet poor Jenny, because she reads her Bible so? BWph.Do not tell me about poor places and wickedjieople: that is the very situation where a minister:i f the Gospel may be called to do most good. I!:hall call to see her. You may let her know myrtention.I will sir, I go in most days to speak to her,nd it does one’s heart good to heap her talk.Indeed ! said I; what does she talk about ?Talk about, poor child ! why nothing but good'aings, such as the Bible, and Jesus Christ, andife, and death, and her soul, and heaven, and hetljd your discourses, and the books you used td^ach her, sir. Her father says, and her ownother snibbs at her, and says, she supposes Jenn,younts herself better than other folks... But shees not mind all that. She; will read her books,d talks so pretty to her mother, ai)d begs sheill think about her soul.The Lord forgive me, thought I, fop not beinginore attehtivfe to thie po6t child's case^ I se^Wcdto feel !h6 iWportance 6f ihfantind instructions ftItidfO than ever I had done beforej and felt a rising (Kihppe that this girl might prove a kind of first fruits r:of n\y labodrs.’ I retired Into my Cldset and prayed. I thankedGod for the IHtelligehde I had jUSt received, and rSought his blessing on my own sOul, and that olf hlittle Jade.I how recollected her tjuiet, orderly, diligent? r;attendance on our little school meetings; and her >marked approbation of the epitaph, as formerly n?mentioned, rushed into my thoughts. I hope, Ireally hope, Said I, this dear little child will provia fchlld of God. And if so, what a mercy to herafld what A mercy to me.The next morning I went to see the child. Hdwelling Was of the hufnblest kiftd; it stoodagainst a high bank of earth, which formed a sortif garden behind it.Jafte was in bed up stairs. I found no one inthe house with her, except tire woman who hadbrought me the message on the evening before.The instant I looked on the gitl, I perceived avery marked change in her Countenance; it hadacquired the consumptive hue, both white and •ted. A delicacy unknown to it before quite sur¬prised me, owing to the alteration it produced injhcv look. She received me first with a very sweetsmile, and then instantly burst into a flood of tears,,just sobbing out.-—I am so glad to see you, sir.I am very much concerned at your being so ill,my child, turd grieved that 1 was not sooner awareof your state. But I hope tire Lord designs it foryour good. Her eyes, not her tongue, powerfullyexpressed, I hope and think he docs.i.if «*.tkJtiWell, my poor child, since you can fto longercome to see me, I Will come dnd see yOU, and wekill talk <wer the subjects which I hate been used0 explain to you.Indeed, sir, I shall be so glad.That I bdleVe She will, saM the old woman,(Of she loves tb talk of nothing so much ds whathe has heard you say in your sermons, and ill theiooks you have given her.Are you really desirous, my deaf child, to be a! rue Christian.> O ! yes, yes, sir, I am Sure I desire that above11 things.1 I was astonished and delighted at the earneSf-;:i:Ss and simplicity with which she spoke theseiWds.Sir, added she, I have been thinking as I laymy bed for many weeks past, how good youfie to instruct us poor children: what must be-iijifnc Of us without it.!; I am truly glad to perceive, that mv instructionswe not been lost upon you, and pray God, thati|ts your present sickness may be an instrumentIt blessing in his hands, to prove, humble, andMCtify yOu. My dear child, you have a Soul,•:i|i immortal soul to think of. You remember, fat I have often said to you about the value oful. What would it profit a man to gain thefoie World and lose his soul., sir, I remember well you told us, thatn our bodies are put into the grave, our Soulsgo then either to the good or bad place,lid which Of these places do you think youerve to go to ?iFer the bad one, sir. What! to hell ? Yes,to hell. Why so ? Because I am a great8to hell ?alriner.- And must all great sinners goThey all deserve it, and 1 am sure I do.But is there no way of. escape ? Is there, noway for a great sinner to be saved ?Yes, sir; Christ is the Saviour.And whom does he save ? All believers.I wish I did ; but I feelI do not know, sir;that I love him. r •What do you love him for ? ,Because he is good to .poor children’slike mine.. What has he done for you.He died For me, sir; and what could he dosouls.more ?And. what do you hope to gain by his death ?A good place when I die, if I believe in himand love l^im. ■ . •Have you felt any uneasiness on account ofyour soul?O ! yes, sir, a great deal. When you used totalk to us children on Saturdays, I often felt as ifI could hardly bear if, and. wondefed that others!of them could seem so c r Jess. I thought I urainot fit to die.- I thought of ali the bad things Ehad ever dcyie and said, and believed God mustbe very angry with me; for you often told us, thatGod would not be mocked, and that if w*e werenot converted we could not go to heaven. Sometimes I thought I was so young it did not signifyand then again it seemed to. me a great sip .to thinllso ; for I knew I was old enough to see. what wairight and what v/as wrong; and so God had a jus:right to be angry, when I did wrong. BesidesI could see that my heart was not right; and hovcould such a heart be fit for heaven ? Indeedsir, I used to feel very miserable.as v.PVtaiioulV! I My dear- Jenny, -I w-i'sh l had known all thU> bfore. Why did you never tell me about it.I(f Sir, I durst not. Indeed I could not well sayi rhat was the matter with me ; and I thought you:i(rould look upon me as very told if I had spoke!) such a gentleman as you about myself; yetiften wished that you knew what I felt and feared,ometimes, as I went away from your house, Iiould not help crying; and then the other chil-iren laughed and jeered at me, and said I wasoing to be very good, they supposed, or at least toi hake people think so. Sometimes, sir, I fanciedou did not think so well of me as of the rest, andiiat hurt me; yet I knew I deserved no particulariivour, because I was the chief of sinners.My dear, what made St Paul says he was thehief of sinners!—What text belongs to thatord, the chief of sinners.This is a faithful saying, and worthy of allacceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world> o save sinners.’ Is not that right, sir ?■r' Yes, my child, it is right; and I hope that theiwiame feeling which St Paul had at that momentiiaas convinced you of the same truth. Christ came/into the world to save sinners. My dear child,li emember now and for evermore, that Christ came'tinto the world to save the chief of sinners.Sir, I am so glad he did, it makes me hope thate will save me, though I am a poor sinful girl,ir, I am very ill, and I do not think I shall ever;et over it. 1 want to go to Christ if I die.What made you first think so seriously aboutour soul ?Your talking about the graves in the church-liprd, and telling us how many young childrenj’were buried there. I remember you said one day,*0Hear twelre months ago, ‘ ClvUdren ! wKera witye be an hundred years hence ? Children ! wherjsdo you think ,you,shall go when you di$ ? Chil 'f.flren! if you were to die to-night, are you S'Mf ^you should go to Christ and be happy ? Sk, t neball never forget your sayiug ( chiidreu'’ thret v*9,cues together in that solemn way. After a litth ;jpayse she said, Q ! sir, I wish you would spoalfto my father aud mother, and Iktle brother, foiJ am afraid they are going on very badly, HowSO? Sir, they drink, and swgau, and quarrel, a^i ffdo net jiky avljat is good ; aod it does grtevo.rOC tvso, I caiujot hear it. If I speak a word to tltersiabpuj: it they arg yery angry, and laugh, and bid •me be quiet, and not set up for their teacher. As jJ returned homo, wy heart glowed with thankfulflees for what I had seen and heard. JLiptle Jane j*appeared to be the first fruits of my paropldal audspiritual harvest. One mqrfling when I arrivedat the cottage, I found her jfl bed, she said, dp «you think God will pardon me, sir ? My deaf ichild, I have great hopes thar he has pardonedyou; that he has heerd your prayers, and put you:into the pumbor of his chddrw .already. Xoihave had strong proofs of his mercy to your soul.Tes, sir, I have ; and I wish to loyo and bless fun?for it. Ho is good ypry good. It had for somPtime past occurred to my mind, tbet a course ofregulated conversations on the first principles ofreligion would be very dpslrable, from tiiflC totime, for this interesting child's *?.ke * and Ithpvght the Churclr Catechism would be the bestground-work for that purpose. Jenny, said I, youcan repeat the Catechism f Vns, sir ; but l thinkthat ho? beep one of my sins in the sight pf God.What I repeating yenr Catephism ; Yes, sir, in&I ach * xnj as I used to do it. How was that «**f«ry carelessly indeed. I never thought aboutDte meaning of the words, and that mast be very> rrong. Sir, the Catechism is full of good things ;i'll wish I understood them better, Well then, my' hild, we wil! talk a little about these good things,■i: rhich, as you truly say, are contained in the Cate-i hism. Did you ever consider what it is to be ait member of Christ, a child of God, and an inheritort f the kingdom of heaven ? I think, sir, I haveitety considered it a good deal; and I want toe such, not only in name, but in deed and inliuth. You once told me, sir, that as the branchi to the vine, and the stone to the building, andlie limb to the body and the head, so is a trueileliever to the Lord Jesus Christ. But how ama to know that I belong to Christ as a true meni-('“T, which you said one day in the church, meanTne same as a limb of the body, Such as a leg ori;;i arm ? Do you love Christ now in a way youjnever used to do before ? Yes, I think so indeed,’filthy do you love him ? Because he first lovedte. How do you know that he first loved you iolecause he sent me instruction, and made me fedic sin of my heart, and taught me to pray forb'ardon and love his ways. He sent you to teacfi[*e, sir, and to shew me the way to be saved; andtow I want to be saved in that way that he pleases.tmetiir.es I feel as if I loved all that he has saidd done so much, that I wish never to think:ioout any thitig else. I know I did not use tolei so; and I think if he had not loved me first,ly wicked heart would never have cared about•rim. I once loved any thing better than religion,lit now it is every thing to me. Do you believeyour heart that Christ is able and willing to12save the chief of sinTlers ? ■ I do. And what are |;iyou? A young, but a great sinner. Is it not of )this mercy that"you know and feel yourself to be; ta sinner? Certainly; yes, it must be so. Do: )ryou earnestly desire to forsake all sin ? If I know' pmyself, I do. Do you feel a spirit within you re-,sisting sin, and making you hate it ? Yes, I hope-so. Who gave you that Spirit ? was you always-so? It must be Christ who loved me and gavehimself for me. I was quite different once. Now jrthen, my dear Jane, does not all this show a con- jnection between the Lord Jesus Christ and your’msoul? Does it not seem as if you lived, andmoved, and had a spiritual being from him ? Just ]:t;as a limb is connected with your body, and so a;with your head, and thereby gets power to liveand move through the flowing of the blood fromthe one to the other; so are you spiritually a limbor member of Christ, if you believe in him andlive to his praise and glory. Do you understandme ? Yes, sir, I believe I do ; and it is very com*fortable to my thoughts to look up to Christ as aliving head, and to consider myself as the leastand lowest of all his members. Now tell mewhat your thoughts a"e as to being a child of tGod? I am sure} sir, I do . not deserve to bejjcalled his child. Can you tell me who does de¬serve it? No one, sir. How then comes any,one to be a child of God, when by nature we areall children of wrath ? By God’s grace, sir. \\ hatdoes grace mean!? Favour, free favour to sinners!Right; and.what does God bestowupon the childre*n of wirath, when he makes them children ofgrace; A death unto sin, and'a new birth untfrighteousness. Is it not, sir? Yes, this is thsfruit of Christ’s redeeming love; and I hope yobkt;ifft;,13 .are a partaker ot the Messing. The family of Gods named after him, and he is the first-born ofi many brethren. Do you kfhow what the ‘ king-(ilom of heaven’ means ? Just at that instant heri mother entered the house below, and began to'4peak to a younger child in a passionate sco’dingone of voice, accompanied by some very offensiveexpressions; but quickly stopped on hearing us' n conversation up stairs. Ah, my poor mother !: aid the girl, you would not have stopped so short' f Mr *— had not been here. Sir, you hearnow my mother swears; say something to her;: iihe will not hear vie. I went toward the stair-; nead and called to the woman; but ashamed atuhe thought of my having probably overheard herExpressions, she suddenly left the house, and fori that time escaped reproof. Sir, said little Jane, Iram so afraid if I go to heaven, I shall nwer seevmy poor mother there, I wish I may; but she}i;does swear so, and keep such bad company. Asill lie here a bed, sir, for hours together, there willi be so much wickedness, and noise, and quarrelling/down below, that I do not know how to bear it.ft comes so near, and is so shocking, sir, whenymy father and mother go on so. I want them all* (to turn to the Lord, and go to heaven. Tell me,, l>ir, something about being an inheritor of the<;kingdom of heaven. You may remember, myijjchild, what I said when explaining the Catechism,fidthat the kingdom of heaven < in the Scripture,9|means the Church of Christ upon earth, asswell as the state of glory in heaven. The one isqp preparation for the other. All true Christianssure heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ, andfu.hall inherit the glory and happiness of his king-iqdom; and live with Christ, and be with him for14«rer. This is the free gift of God to his adopted itchildren; and all that believe aright in Christ shall' |iexperience the truth of that promise, ‘ It is your' itFather’s good pleaSufe to give you the king- Idom.’ You are a poor girl now, but I trust ‘an tentrance shall be ministered to you abundantly •into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Sav- *iour Jesus Christ.’ You suffer now, but are you tvnot willing to suffer for his sake, and to bear pa- htiently what he calls to you ? O yes, very willing ; !:I w'ould not complain. It is all right. Then, my rdear, you shall reign with him. Through much Ltribulation, you may, perhaps, enter into the king- r|;,dom of God; but tribulation worketh patience; and V-patience, experience; and experience, hope. As a itrue ‘ member of Christ.’ show yourself to be a »dutiful ‘child of God,’ and your portion will bethat of an inheritor in the kingdom of heaven, iFaithful is He that hath promised ; commit thyway unto the Ixird ; trust also in him, and he shall «bring it to pass. Thank you, sir. I do so love ;to hear of these things; and I think, sir, I shouldnot love them so much if 1 had no part in them. .Sir. there is one thing I want to ask you. It is agreat thing, and I mav be wrong—I am so young i-—And yet l hone J mean right—Here she hesi¬tated and paused. What is it ? do not be fearfulof mentioning it. A tear rolled down her cheek—a slight blush coloured her countenance. She ilifted up her eyes to heaven for a moment, and .then fixing them on me, with a solemn affecting jlook, said, May so young a poor child as I arr. beadmitted to the Sacrament ? I have for some time! (wished it, but dared not to mention it, for fear youshould think it wrong. My dear Jenny, I haveno doubt respecting it, and shall be very glad to >35: iconverse with you on the subject, find hope thati he who has given you desire, will bless his own5 ordinance to yous’ soul. Would you wish it now,ior tp-morvow ? To-morrow, if you please, sir.i!Wi)l you come to-morrow and talk tome aboutit ? atid if you think it proper, I shall be thankful.; f am growing faint now—-1 hope to be better when. you come again. I was much pleased with heri oroposal, and rejoiced at the prospect of seeing soii young and sincere a Christian thus devote herselfj |o the Lord. She was evidently ripening fast fordl better world. The next morning I went toane’s cottage. On entering the door, the woman> |vho so frequently visited her met me, and said,t Perhaps, sir, you will not awake her just yet; forihe has dropped asleep, and she seldoms gets muchslijbst, poor girl. I went gently up stairs. TheJihild was in a half-sitting posture, leaning her;!i;ead upon her right hand, with her Bible open be-tjlQre her. I approached without waking her, and• tabsffved that she had been reading the twenty-vnird chapter of St- Lake, She suddenly startedtid perceived me, she awoke—.a faint blush over¬head her eheek* for a moment, and then disap-;■ neared.J3ame K——, how long have I been asleep !—.,r, I am very sorry—And I am very glad to find14 thus, I replied : you may say with David, ‘ Id me down and slept; I awaked, lor the Lord__Stained me.’ What were you reading i 'I'heItory o; the crucifixion of Jesus, sir. How far1 you read when you fell asleep ? To theyer of the thief that was crucified with him t4 when I came to that place I stopped, and.ftHpughf what a mercy it would be if the LordHUisns should remember mg likewise—-and so I fell' i.i A Su<, fly '■ <t|18■asleep; and I fansied in my dream that I sawChrist upon the cross ; and I thought I said, Lord,remertiber me—and then I awoke.Well, my dear child, I am come as you wishedme, to administer the sacrament of the body andblood of our blessed Saviour to you ; and dare sayneighbour K-*— will be glad to join us. Talkto me a little about it first, sir, if you please. Yotfremember what you have learned in your Cate¬chism about it. Let us consider—A sacrament,you know* is ‘ an outward and visible sign of aninward and Spiritual grace given unto us, ordainedby Christ himself, as a means whereby we receivethe same, and a pledge to assure us thereof.1 Nowthe Lord has ordained bread and wine in the holysupper, as the outward mark which we behold fwith our eyes. It is a sign, a token ; a seal of his Ilove, grace, and blessing, which he promises to,and bestows on all who receive it, rightly believingon his name and worh. He in this manner pre¬serves amongst us ‘ a continual remembrance of hisdeath, and of the benefits which we receive there¬by.’ What do you believe respecting the deathof Christ, Jenny ? That because he died, sir, we;live. What life do we live thereby ? The life ofgrace snd mercy now, and the life of glory and1happiness hereafter; is it not, sir?Ye* assuredly; this is the fruit of the death oflrChrist; and thus he ‘opened the kingdom orheaven to all believers.’ As bread and winep'istrengthen and refresh your poor weak faintingnbody in this very sickness; so does the blessingf'*of his body and blood strengthen and refresh thefsouls of all that repose their faith, hope, and affecdons on Him who loved us, and gave himself foiK,fel:us. Sir, said the girl, I can never think aboutilk17i bus and his love to sinners without wonderingnw it can be. I deserve nothing but his angerH account of my sins. Why then does he live ?' now plain it is, that all his mercy from first toi it; and that sweetens the blessing, child. Arej»u not willing to give Christ all the honour ofiiiur salvation, and to take all the blame of yourns on your own self? Yes, indeed sir, 1 am.s j. severe fit of coughing interrupted her speechi r a while. The woman held her head. It wa§3 stressing to observe her struggle for breath, and: most as it were for life. 1 am better now. NowIk to me again about the sacrament. What isi quired, Jenny, of them who come to the Lord’s5 ipper ? She paused ; and then said with a so-J mn and intelligent look, to examine themselvesfrhether they repent them truly of their formeri.-|ns. The next mentioned in that answer of your(i|atechism, what is it ? Stedfastly purposing toijfad a new life. What is the next thing men¬tioned ? To have a lively faith in God’s mercycnrough Christ, sir. And lastly, Jenny, are youl:ili charity with all men ? Do you forgive all that(fave offended you ? Do you bear-will in yournseart to any body ? Dear sir, no, how can I ?I1 f God is so good to me, if he forgives me, hownan I help forgiving others ? How do you feelwowards those bold wanton, ill-tempered girls at£he next door, who jeer and mock you so about3|four religion ? Sir, the worst thing I wish themp, that God may give them grace to repent; thathe may change their hearts, and pardon all theirijvicked ways and words. May he forgive them>s I do with all my soul ? She ceased—I wishedjo ask no more. My heart was full. Can this beiihe religion of a child ? thought I. O,. that all wereisIlka he?. Reach me that pfftyCr back* 2Jid Che ca;afl£ 4)lata. My dea^ friertdgj I will kc‘Jrf witlGod’s blessing, partake tvith you Is th^ hcily co.r^munion of our Lofd’a Body ftiid biOod. Wheft *COiicludcd the bc'/Vfcef E aaidj NOV/, titf deaf JftiWyou are ifldSed OedO'.tie a in the church ot iChrist. May iiis spirit and biissiitg lest dpofl you,siirfngthefl, and refresh youf My mercies Btt -greaty very great, sir, greater than I Can express. .I thank yotf for ihii favOur-^I thought I was todyoung—it seemed too much for me to think of:-but t am now sure that the Lord is good to me* ,,and I hope I have done right. Yes, Jertay, aridI trust you are now both outwardly and inwardlySealed by the Holy Ghost to the day ot redemption. .Sir, I shall never forget this day. Neither, I think, Lshall I. Nor I, Said the old woman. The Lofd yhas been in the midst of us three to-day, we havebeen gathered together in his name. Sir, saidthe Child, I wish yOu could speak to my motherwhen you come again. Farewell, my child. Goodbye, sir and I think you for all your kindness tome. Jane was hastening fast to her dissolution.She still, however, preserved sufficient Strength ofvoice to convene with much satisfaction to her¬self and all who visited her. Thole who cOUldtruly estimate the value of her spiritual state ofmind were but few; yet the most cureless COuldnot help being struck with her eitecfionate se¬riousness, her knowledge of the Scriptures, andher happy application of them to her own andother people’s cases. May the eye that reads, andthe ear tout heats the record of little Jane, throughthe power of the Spirit Of the Most High, eachbecome a witness for the truth as it is in Jesus.I remembered the tender solicitude of this dear:15 ihild for her itiother. I well krtew what an awfuljijntfast the dispositions and conduct of her parent*bchibited, when compared with her own. I re¬tired to avail myself of the first Opportunity IlOiild Seize to speak to the mother in the child’s! iresence. The road by which I usually approached'le house lap fot some little distance sufficientlyi sight of the window, to ett'able her cb retire outf the way before I arrived. There was, however,nothef path through fields, at the back of thei lillage, which, owing to thfe sitliation of the groundlilowcd of an approach unperceived till the visitor■ached the cottage. One morning soon after theicramental inteiview related above, I Chose thisI liad for my visit. All these things afforded meflSeful meditations; and all obtained an increaseddue as such, because they lay in my road to theijjpUSe of little Jane. I was now arrived at theilyle nearly adjoining her dwelling. I soon dis-■ pguished the sound of voices ; I was glad to hearllat of the mother. I entered the house door un-cerceived by those above stairs, and sat down be-,W, not wishing as yet to interrupt a conversationjiihich quickly caught my ear.y Mother, I have been wanting to speak to you:dong time. But I was afraid to do it.—“I wish(r ..«■—» was here, for he could talk to youfuter than I can. Why did you always go outif the house when you knew tie Was coming ?—i n not be angry with me, mother} I only speak{r your good. I was once as careless as you abouti tfr things of God •, but the Lord saw me and hadv'tercy upon me. Yes, my child, you was alwayswood girl, und minded your book. No, mothttr,jj-, not always. Don’t you remember, mother,(at at first you did not like to let me go, and saidyou would have no such godly; pious doings abou:your house.— Ah, mother! you did not know whaiI went for, and what God designed for me andmy poor sinful soul. But thank God I did go,and there learned the way of salvation. Mother,I wish you had learned it too.At this moment the house-door opened, and a,,younger child, a brother of Jane’s came in- Themother asked from above who it was •, the boy re¬plied, and without farther inquiry $he remainedin the chamber. I beckoned to the lad to sit downquietly, and thus it still remaineU unknown thafi^,1 was below. Mother , continued Jane, chat is mybrother, and will soon be your only remaining child.Do pray, encourage him to follow good ways.;Send him to Mr , and he will be kind to him• as he has been so me. He is a wild boy, but Ihope he will be brought to think about his ^oul intime. Those naughty wicked boys teach him toswear and fight, and run after ail manner of evil.Lord help him to flee from the wrath to come *I made a sign to the boy to listen to what his sister said concerning him. He seemed to hear withattention, and a tear dropped down his cheek.Aye, Jenny, it is to be hoped he will, and thatwe all shall likewise.Mother, then you must flee to Christ. Nothingyou can do will save you without that. I nowthought i» time to appear, and going to the bottom,of the stairs, said, may a friend come up ? Mercvon me! said the mother, there is Mr  — 7    —  Come in, sir, said Jane, I am very glad you arecome no'ip -r-Mother set a chair. The womanlooked confused. Jane smiled as I entered, andwelcomed me as usual. I hope I shall be forgivenboth by mother and daughter, for having remained!21ong below stairs during the conversation whichij;» just taken place I wished to warn you of the)tiger of your state; but Jenny has said all I couldi tirej and I now solemnly ask you whether you! t not much affected by your poor child’s faithfuli liversation ? Say whether this sight does not1 aloud upon you to hear and fear. Jane’s eyesre filled with tears whilst I spoke. My child,tany, said I, how are you to day ! Sir, my mindf 5 been very easy and happy since I last saw you.hm quite willing to die when the Lord sees fit.| She was now quite overcome, and sunk awaya kind of fainting fit. Her mother observedat she would now probably remain insensibler some time before she recovered. I improvedis interval in a serious address to the woman,d then prepared to take my departure, perceivingat Jane was too much exhausted for farther con-ifersation at that time. As I was leaving the room,he child said faintly, come again soon, sir, myme is very short.I returned home by the same retired road whichi had before chosen.ff The very next morning a message was sent thatttiane thought herself dying, and wished to see meimmediately. When I arrived at the house I foundCio one below ; I paused a few minutes and heardJthe girl’s voice very faintly saying. Do you thinkpe will come ? I should be so glad—so very glado see him before I die. I ascended the stairs—tier father, mother, and brother, together withthe elderly woman before spoken of, were in theIchamber. Jane’s countenance bore the marks of[speedy dissolution. Yet, although death wasmanifest in her languid features, there was some¬thing more than ever interesting in the whole of22her external aspect. At length she said, this i|very kind, sir} I am going fast^I was afraidshould never see you again in this world. I sai, ?my child, are you resigned to die i Quite.«Where is your hope ? She lifted up her fingepointing tp heaven, and then directing the sarrdownward to her own heart, saying successive]as she did so, Christ there, and Christ hp-e.These words, accompanied by the action, spokher meaning more solemnly than can be pasilconceived. A momentary spasm- took pjace.-Looking towards her weeping mother, she said >I am very cold^-but it is no matter—it wiU sootbe over. She closed her eyes for about a minntehand on opening them again, said, I wish, sirwhen I am gone, you wonld tell the other chil¬dren of the parish how good the Lord has been Hmo, a poor sinner; tell them that the ways of sitand ignorance are the ways to rnip and hell: anfpray tell them, sir, from me, that Christ is hi,deed the Way, the Truth, and the Lffe-T—he wiliin no wise cast put any that come. Tejl themthat I, a poor girl—She was quite exhausted, andsunk for a while into a torpid state, from which,;howeyer, she recovered gradually, uttering these*expressions: where am 1 ?—I thought I was go¬ing—lord, save me, o how good, how great,how merciful} Jesus s?.ve me; help me through{his last v;ial. She then gaye one hand to herfather, the other to her mother, and said, Godbless you, God bless you—seek the Lord-—thinkof me when i am gone—it may be for your good—remember your souls—then all may be well;you caamot know what I gave felt for botii of yop—Lord, pardop and save my dear father and mo¬ther.,. She,tiffin took hold of hsr brother’s hand,23,aying, Jhomag, I beg you to jeave off your bad; ways-—read the Bible—:I give you tnipe^-I havejfound it a precious boot. Do you not remember• tur Uttle brother who died sorne years since ? her-tvas praj ing to the last moment of his life. Learn: p pray while yon are in health, and you will findhe comfort and power of it when you come totie; but first of all pray for a new heart—with-ut it you will never seo God in heaven. Your."•resent ways lead to misery and ruin} may theoord turn your heart to lore and fear him.1 The child then suddenly rose up with an uh-> ispected exertion, threw her livid wasted armsi iTound me as I sat on the bedside, laid her headu my shoulder, and said distinctly, God blessfind reward you—give thanks for me to Dim—y soul is saved—Christ is every thing to me.—•jr, we shall meet «n Heaven, shall we not ? Qes., yes—then all will be peace—.peace—peace.She sunk back on the bed, and spoke no mpr?fetched a deep sigh—smiled^and died. Forime time I remained silently gazing on the breath*ss corpse, and could hardly persuade myself thatane was indeed no longer there, As 1 returnedomeward, I fell into meditation on the mysterj*t|us subject of the fight of a soul from this v/orldlip that of departed spirits.JJ Peace was the last word little Jane uttered1 /hile living; and peace seemed lo be insoribedi|n the farewell scene at the grave where she waslaid. Attachment to the spot where this youngit Christian lay, induced me to plant a yew tree closey the head of the grave, adjoining the easternIjtvall of the church. But it withered sppp after¬wards, and like the child Whose grave it pointedut to notice, early faded away arid died. Per-24haps this narrative may be permitted to transmits,her memory to othfer generations, when the handand heart of the writer shall be cold in the dustljThe story of this Young Cottager involves *'clear evidence of the freeness of the operations ofidivine grace on the heart of man; of the insepar4able connection between true faith and holiness ofdisposition; and of the simplicity of charactebiwhich a real love of Christ transfuses into thejsoul. How many of the household of faith, tillevery age,“ Alike unknown to fortune and to fame,” Ihave journeyed, and are now travelling to their I* city of habitation,’ through the paths of modest:obscurity, and almost unheeded piety. It is onejof the most interesting enjoyments of the Chris-;tian minister to search out these spiritual lilies offthe valley, whose beauty and fragrance are nearly!concealed in their shady retreats. To rear th«|flower, to assist in unfolding its excellences, andljbring forth it^s fruit in due season, is a work that!delightf ully recompences the toil of the cultivator.While he is occupied in this grateful task offlabouring in his heavenly Master’s garden,' someblight, some tempest may chance to take away ajffavourite young blossom in a premature stage ofits growth.If such a case should befal him^ he will thenperhaps, as I have often done, when standing irr,pensive recollection at little Jane’s grave, make'an application of these lines, which are inscribed,on a grave-stone erected in the same church-yard ,1and say,“ This lovely Inid so young and fair, 'Call'd hence by e irly doom,Just came to. show how sweet a flower,, ^In Paradise would bicom.”FINIS.1