T II EBeiuties of Glafgow.TO WHICH *■ A on ED,1 WONDER’D WHAT HE MEANT*B O N N Y G II A l\ L E Y.fT H E GLEAN E R S.E!SHE’S WHAT I DARE NOT NAME.G L A S G O W,Printed by J, ?t M. ROBERTSON,sblc?.r )The BEAUTIES op GLASGOW CUT.''I i7Hen I Tvasyounft', an;? youth d’u) h’oom,^ ^ where far-cy fnar’d me 1 did rove;From tev.-n to town, ‘••■e nation round,thro’ many a filent fhady grove:At la<l 1 .came to Scotland by name,which was adorn’d on every f;de,With cities rare, but G’afgow fair,is the beaun of a!T oh the banks of Clyde.At firlt when 1 this city drew nigh,it was into-the month of May,When all about this beautiful town,the fields were clad \yith fiow’t.s fo gay.The mufc-hells through wcods >4d fells,do echo out on every fide,Such mticdy can no where be.like this on the banks of the river Clyde. |As I drew near, the girls did appear,fuch beauties as 1 ne’er had feen.The virgins fair, with mcdc-d asf,pals up and down hrneat and clean.; ;t he people here to kind they were,made me Vetolve here to abide,For ever litre l wish to live,in Glafgow on the Banks of Clyde. |But when l came unto the Crofs,fuch buildings I to you declare,For beauty never yet was feen,in number all at once was there ;•—777 —"   * r( 3 ) rI From ead to weft I do prcteit.from fouth to north on every fide,i The Greets do Ue with buildings high,in Glafgo " on die Batiks or Clyde.! Like wife, which be.wtifies the town,the goal is like a palace fair,(And juft below a fine exchange,where merchants they do all repair;Where curioufiy, well moudma high,King William does on horfcback ride;.Alt winch does greatly beautify,this city on the Banks of Clyde^I The mufic-bells delightfully,repeat each quarter thro* the day,FiWhen all’s afleep with mufic fweet,they chime the filenrt night away.jTThofe mufic-bells through woods and fells,do echo out on every fide,i!Such melody can no where be,like thofe on the Banks of the river Clyde,The ftreets they are fo beautiful,(they crofs each other curioutly.And all along on every fideeach building’s like a palace high ;;i The churches rare, they are fo fair,ali beautiful on every fide,I heir fteepits are fo bruk and tall,ihine far frae the Banks of the river ClydI The coat of arms denotes their charms,both from the air, the land, the fca,' ■.( 4 5 .Bell, fTfh, and v'mg, and a bird to iing,foil fwett on the top of an oaken treeAll thofe you’d find iholt neatly' join’d,well beautified on ever% fid;:,With motto round. * Lee Glu'gow town* fdil fiouiith on the Banks of Clyde/This chr-teming town, with water clearas cry'tal ail idotg the Hreels.Is well fupply’^l with fine n.achinef,which draw’t from below v^-ur feet.Like wife hoe gardens all around,with plcafant walks on e-th y fide.Fine bleach-fields, which pleafine yields,to Glafgow on the Banks of Clyde.Here’s pieafure too, a river thtp*this city runs, although but finall,’Where orderly twelve bridges .high,and thole in half a mile itand ali:All thofe, each one with carious {tope.are built with arches high and wideSix miles alio this dream does gofor Glafgow on the banks of Clyde.’ ikewife by right, for more delight,they have a large and ijv.clous green.Adorn'd with planting a'l around,divided by a plcafant bream :Into thr green there’s to be feen,a building *2:r both large and wide.For waiting dear i ;rough all the yrar,lor C if j;;Ow on the B^nks of Civ tie.Vj rf, ( 5 )Be;ow tins town two bridges Randthro’ which the \v;u.*r clear doth f d,From whence you have the pleufant viewof the harbour at the rkoorrdeUwv,Where fadors they both might an j day,come failing up with every tide,Their landing be upon the quayat Giafgow on the Banks of C!,/de.Ot?e thing abounds in this bcaunful to vn,remains untold, the which l .yd 11,Of their virtues tree, and frugality,which does lutpais thole bcnglics^ali:The. vyeaytpg art in .every part/whole fplcndivi fiow’ring branches wide,Doth bloflom here through ai! -he year,at Gbfgow on the Banks or Clyde.I WONDER’D WHAT HE WE lNT,^IL '/IIEN Damon hrR my eyes beheld*VV My Ik art with fecret trurdpovt thrill’d;And pit a pat it went.Young, artlefs, innocent, and Ihy,So unexperienc’d was I,I wonder’d what he meant, etc,’Whene’er I met him on the plain.He’d kifs me, figh, and kills again.And fweetdl tales invent,And then he’d tell me he mult die,lut, as l faw no danger nigh,i wonder’d what he meant, etc*( 6 )To nymphs, V.hora years had ^-ifer made,I told the tender things lie laid,And oi his fad complaint,Full veil the teftder things they knew,For they like me had Heard them too,Nor wonder'd what they meant, etc.They anfwer'd love had touch'd my heart,That Damon, by his fex’s art,Might caufe me to repent,Anil that I mould defire the fwaiaTo tell me, when we meet again,if he to wed me meant, etc.Rejoic'd fucb good advice to find,I tvipt to let him know my mind,Acrofs the mead intent,I told him, did he not deftgnWith me in Hymen's bands to join ?I wonder'd what he meant, etc.The youth, whefe love was aw’d with fear,Grew raptur’d fuih fweet founds to hear.Straight to the church we went;How wife we ail by marriage grow,'Tho' fooiiih once, yet now l know,I know what Damon meant, etc.BONN Y C H A R L E Y.ODeaily do l love to rove.among the fields oi barley,'Twas there that Charley told his love,the blithe, the winfeme Charley )Then he fo Oi’d,?.n;l he fo woo’d,and marriage was the pr-ivley,W!;)’: could 1 do, but buckie too,with bonny, bonny, bonny Charley.chop, u sO rny bbnny, bonny boy, bonny Charley,0 my bonny, bonny boy, mybc-nny Charley.1 ken, the laffes rue the day,. 1 fought the fields of barley.And fui/e to win froui me away,the heart of winfo me Charley;Eet, ah ! how vain, they cannot gainbis love by all their parley,And now they fee, he wooes but me,tny bonny, bonny Charley. O my} etc.O ilka bit ding on the lairdthat owns the fields of barley,, And l can bint alone regard,for his a:n winfome Charley;7 be genteel youth, with pared truth,j fo wooes me hue and early,1 1 can’t \vi:Lf‘?.nd, to give my handto bonny, h«mny Charley. O my, etc.T II E G L E A N E II S.’ \\7 HEN the rofy mom appearing,‘ ^ paints with gold, the verdant lawn.Bees on banks of thyme difporting,. hfo the f'weets and hail the dawn..' . (s')Warbling birds the fpring proclaiming,carol Tweet th’ enlivening itrain,1 hey f or’ake their leafy dweliirg,tO'fecure the golden grainSee, content the humble gleaners,take the fcatterM ears that ial!,Nature all her children viewing,kindly bounteous cares for all.When his weary'd talk is over,ended with the letting fun,Scott the hind forgets his labour,and to his cow-cot home does run.Lifping babes all fly to meet him,and receive a father’s pray’r.liis lov’d partner fmiles to fee them,climb the envy’d kils to ihare.Bahny fleep attends his pillow,free from borrow, lr.ee from fear,Meav’n-born guards each moment watch him, 1ponce and innocence live here. vi» miw —i im UBiiimn ii »n ~~r—ij-ii- - IShir’S \VHAT I DARE KUT NaMU.IF love the virgin's heart invade,. How, like a moth, the Ample maidSgdl pkey? about the flame !If fc.on fhe fie not made a wife, Jrtier honour’s Ting’d, and then for lifeShe’s what I dare not name. *GLASGOW, HUtmib crj, & n. DOB Etc TS ON, isos, j