NEW AND IMPEOVED SERIES.AMUSING AND ENTERTAININGIRISH STORIESCOMPILED FROM VARIOUS SOURCES.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.1850.OF SCOTLAND jIP'M?LCONTENTS.Providence, or the Shipwreck,.Generous Revenge, The Little Dog The Gain of a Loss, Good Company, Envy and Emulation, The Wanderer’s Return, Difterence and Agreement, Goods at Half Price, ■WKwaS? j'IRISH STORIES.PROVIDENCE; OR, THE SHIPWRECK.It was a dreadful storm. The wind, blowing full on the sca-Jshore, rolled tremendous waves on the beach; while the half-Bsunk rocks, at the entrance of the bay, were enveloped in amist of white foam. A ship appeared in the offing, drivingI impetuously under her bare poles to land; now tilting aloft onthe surging waves, now plunging into the intervening hollows.Presently she rushed among the rocks, and there struck; thebillows beating over her deck, and climbing up her shatteredrigging. “Mercy, mercy!” exclaimed an ancient solitary,nas he viewed from a cliff the dismal scene. It was in vain.The ship fell on her side, and was seen no more.Soon, however, a small dark object appeared coming fromthe rocks towards the shore; at first dimly descried throughthe foam, then quite plain as it rode on the summit of a wave,then for a time totally lost. It approached, and showed itselfto be a boat with men in it rowing for their lives. The solitaryhastened down to the beach, and, in all the agonizing vicissi-i) tudes of hope and fear, watched its advance. At length, after5 the most imminent hazards, the boat was thrown violently ont the shore, and the dripping half-dead mariners crawled out toj the dry land.j “Heaven be praised!” cried the solitary; “whataprovi-I dential escape ! ” And he led the poor men to his cell, where,U kindling a good fire, and bringing out his little store of provi-|i sion, he restored them to health and spirits. “ And are youn six men the only ones saved?” said he. “That we are,”u answered one of them. “Threescore and fifteen men, women,|l and children, were in the ship when she struck. You may|| think what a clamour and confusion there was : women clinging|t to their husbands’ necks, and children hanging about theirS clothes, all shrieking, crying, and praying. There was notime to be lost. We got out the small boat in a twinkling;4jumped in, without staying for our captain, who was foolenough to be minding the passengers; cut the rope, andpushed away just time enough to he clear of the ship as shewent down : and here we are, all alive and merry.” An oathconcluded his speech. The solitary was shocked, and could not'help secretly wishing that it had pleased Providence to havesaved some of the innocent passengers, rather than the repro¬bates.The sailors having got what they could, departed, scarcelythanking their benefactor, and marched up the country. Nightcame on. They descried a light at some distance, and madeup to it. It proceeded from the window of a good-lookinghouse, surrounded with a farm-yard and garden. They knockedat the door, and in a supplicating tone made known their dis¬tress, and begged relief. They were admitted, and treatedwith compassion and hospitality. In the house were the mis- .tress, her children and women-servants, an old man and a boy: ■the master was abroad. The sailors, sitting round the kitchenfire, whispered to each other that there was an opportunity ofmaking a booty that would amply compensate for the loss ofclothes and wages. They settled their plan; and on the oldman’s coming with logs to the fire, one of them broke his skullwith the poker, and laid him dead. Another took up a knife •which had been brought with the loaf and cheese, and, runningafter the boy, w ho was making his escape out of the house,stabbed him to the heart. The rest locked the doors, and,after tying all the women and children, began to ransack thehouse. One of the children continuing to make loud exclama¬tions, a fellow7 went and strangled it. They had nearly finishedpacking up such of the most valuable things as they couldcarry off, when the master of the house came home. He wasa smuggler as well as a farmer, and had just returned from anexpedition, leaving his companions with their goods at a neigh¬bouring public-house. Surprised at finding the doors locked,and at seeing ligiits moving about in the chambers, he suspectedsomewhat amiss; and, upon listening, he heard strange voices,and sawr some of the sailors through the windows. He has¬tened back to his companions, and brought them with him justas the robbers opened the door and were coming out with theirpillage, having first set fire to the house in order to concealwhat they had done. The smuggler and his friends let fly theirblunderbusses in the midst of them, and then rushing forwards,seized the survivors, and secured them. Perceiving flames inthe house, they ran and extinguished them. The villainswere next day led to prison, amidst the curses of the neighbour¬hood.5The good solitary, on hearing of the event, at first exclaimed,“ What a wonderful interference of Providence to punish guilt,and protect innocence!” Pausing awhile, he added, “Yethad Providence thought fit to have drowned these sailors intheir passage from the ship, where they left so many betterpeople to perish, the lives of three innocent persons would havebeen saved, and these wretches would have died without suchaccumulated guilt and ignominy. On the other hand, had themaster of the house been at home, instead of following a lawlessand desperate trade, he would perhaps have perished with allhis family, and the villains have escaped with their booty. Whatam I to think of all this ? ” Thus pensive and perplexed, helaid him down to rest, and, after some time spent in gloomyreflections, fell asleep.In his dream, he fancied himself seated on the top of a highmountain, where he was accosted by a venerable figure in longwhite garments, who asked him the cause of the melancholyexpressed on his countenance. “It is,” said he, “because Iam unable to reconcile the decrees of Providence with my ideasof wisdom and justice.”—“That,” replied the stranger, “isprobably because thy notions of Providence are narrow anderroneous. Thou seekest it in particular events, and dost notraise thy survey to the great whole. Every occurrence in theuniverse is providential, because it is the consequence of thoselaws which divine wisdom has established as most productive ofthe general good. But to select individual facts as moredirected by the hand of Providence than others, because wethink we see a particular good purpose answered by them, is aniniallible inlet to error and superstition. Follow me to theedge of the cliff.” He seemed to follow.“ Now look down,” said the stranger, “and tell me whatthou seest.”—“ I see,” replied the solitary, “ a hawk dartingamidst a flock of small birds, one of which he has caught, whilethe others escape.”—“ And canst thou think,” rejoined thestranger, ‘ ‘ that the single bird, made a prey of by the hawk,lies under any particular doom of providence, or that those whofly away are more the objects of divine favour than it? Hawks,by nature, were made to feed upon living [trey, and wereendowed with strength and swiftness to enable them to overtakeand master it. Thus life is sacrificed to the support of life.But to this destruction limits are set. The small birds aremuch more numerous and prolific than the birds of prey ; andthough they cannot resist his force, they have dexterity andnimbleness of flight sufficient in general to elude his pursuit.It is in this balance that the wisdom of Providence is seen ; andwhat can be a greater proof of it, than that both species, theedestroyer and his prey, have subsisted together from their firstcreation? Now look again, and tell me what thou seest.”“I see,” said the solitary, “a thick black cloud gatheringin the sky. I hear the thunder rolling from side to side of thevault of heaven. I behold the red lightning darting from thebosom of darkness. Now it has fallen on a stately tree, andshattered it to pieces, striking to the ground an ox sheltered atits foot. Now it falls again in the midst of a flock of timoroussheep, and several of them are left on the plain ;—and see 1 theshepherd himself lies extended by their side. Now it strikes alofty spire, and at the same time sets in a blaze a humble cot¬tage beneath. It is an awful and terrible sight 1 ’ ’“It is so,” returned the staanger; ‘‘but what dost thouconclude from it ? Dost thou not know, that from the genialheat which gives life to plants and animals, and ripens thefruits of the earth, proceeds this electrical fire, which, ascendingto the clouds, and charging them beyond what they are able tocontain, is launched again in burning bolts to the earth ? Mustit leave its direct course to strike the tree rather than the domeof worship, or to spend its fury on the herd rather than theherdsman? Millions of millions of living creatures have owedtheir birth to this active element; and shall we think itstrange if a few meet their deaths from it? Thus themountain-torrent that rushes down to fertilize the plain, in itscourse may sweep away the works of human industry, andman himself with them ; but could its benefits be purchased atanother price ? ’ ’“All this,” said the solitary, “I tolerably comprehend:but may I presume to ask whence have proceeded the moralevils of the painful scenes of yesterday? What good end isanswered by making man the scourge of man, and preservingthe guilty at the cost of the innocent? ”“That, too,” replied the venerable stranger, “is a conse¬quence of the same wise laws of providence. If it was right tomake man a creature of habit, and render those things easy tohim with which he is most familiar; the sailor, of course, mustbe better able to shift for himself in a shipwreck than the pas-s»ngcr ; while that self-love which is essential to the preserva¬tion of life, must, in general, cause him to consult his ownsafety preferably to that of others. The same force of habit,in a way of life full of peril and hardship, must conduce to forma rough, bold, and unfeeling character. This, under the direc¬tion of principle, will make a brave man ; without it, a robberand a murderer. In the latter case, human laws step in toremove the evil, which they have not been able to prevent.Wickedness meets with the fate which sooner or later always7Hawaits it; and innocence, though occasionally a sufferer, isI] proved in the end to be the surest path to happiness.”i “ But,” resumed the solitary, “can it be said that the lot ofinnocence is alvjays preferable to that of guilt in this world? ”“ If it cannot,” replied the other, “ thinkest thou that thei Almighty is unable to make retribution in a future world ? Dis¬miss then from thy mind the care of single events, secure thatthe great whole is ordered for the best. Expect not a par-■ ticular interposition of heaven, because such an interpositionwould seem to thee seasonable. Thou, perhaps, wouldst stopthe vast machine of the universo to envo a fly from beingcrushed under its wheels. But innumerable flies and men arecrushed every day, yet the grand motion goes on, and will goon, to fulfil the benevolent intentions of its Author.”He ceased ; and sleep on a sudden left the eyelids of thesolitary. He looked abroad from his cell, and beheld all naturesmiling around him. The rising sun shone in a clear sky,Birds were sporting in the air, and fish glancing on the surfaceof tho waters. Fleets were pursuing their steady course, gentlywafted by tbe pleasant breeze. Light fleecy clouds were sailingover the blue expanse of heaven. His soul sympathized withthe scene, and peace and joy filled his bosom.GENEROUS REVENGE.At the period when the Republic of Genoa was dividedbetween the factions of the nobles and the people, Uberto, aman of low origin, but of an elevated mind and superior talents,and enriched by commerce, having raised himself to be thohead of a popular party, maintained, for a considerable time, ademocratical form of government.The nobles, at length uniting all their efforts, succeeded insubverting this state of things, and regained their former supre¬macy. They used their victory with considerable rigour; and,in particular, having imprisoned Uberto, proceeded against himas a traitor, and thought they displayed sufficient lenity inpassing a sentence upon him of perpetual banishment, and theconfiscation of all his property. Adorno—who was then pos¬sessed of the first magistracy, a man haughty in temper, andproud of ancient nobility, though otherwise not void of generoussentiments—in pronouncing this sentence on Uberto, aggravatedits severity by the insolent terms in which he conveyed it.“ You,” said he, “ you, the son of a base mechanic, who have3dared to trample upon the nobles of Genoa,—you, by the*clemency, are only doomed to shrink again into the nothin,whence you sprung.”Uberto received his condemnation with respectful submissioito the court; yet, stung by the manner in which it was expressed, he could not forbear saying to Adorno, “ that perhapslie might hereafter find cause to repent the language he ha<used to a man capable of sentiments as elevated as his own.’He then made his obeisance, and retired; and, after takingleave of his friends, embarked in a vessel bound for Naples, antquitted his native country without a tear.lie collected some debts due to him in the Neapolitan do-Hminions, and, with the wreck of his fortune, went to settle oialone of the islands in the Archipelago belonging to the state oiVenice. Here his industry and capacity in mercantile pursuitsraised him, in a course of years, to greater wealth than he hadpossessed in his most prosperous days at Genoa ; and his repu¬tation for honour and generosity equalled his fortune.Among other places which he frequently visited as a mer¬chant, was the city of Tunis, at that time in friendship with theVenetians, though hostile to most of the other Italian states,and especially to Genoa. As Uberto was on a visit to one of,the first men of that place at his country-house, he saw a youngChristian slave at work in irons, whose appearance excited his 1attention. The youth seemed oppressed with labour to whichhis delicate frame had not been accustomed; and, while heleaned at intervals upon the instrument with which he wasworking, a sigh burst from his full heart, and a tear stole downhis cheek. Uberto eyed him with tender compassion, andaddressed him in Italian. The youth eagerly caught the 1sounds of his native tongue; and, replying to his inquiries,informed him he was a Genoese. “ And what is your name,young man? ” said Uberto. “ You need not be afraid of con¬fessing to me your birth and condition.”—“Alas!” he an¬swered, “I fear my captors already suspect enough to demanda large ransom. My fatheu is indeed one of the first men inGenoa. His name is Adorno, and I am his only son.”—“Adorno!” Uberto checked himself from uttering morealoud ; but to himself he cried, “Thank heaven! then I shallbe nobly revenged.”He took leave of the youth, and immediately went to inquireafter the corsair captain who claimed a right in young Adorno ;and, having found him, demanded the price of his ransom.He learned that he was considered as a capture of some value,and that less than two thousand crowns would not be accepted.Uberto paid the sum ; and, causing his servant to follow him9with a horse and a complete suit of handsome apparel, hereturned to the youth, who was working as before, and toldhim he was free. With his own hands he took off his fetters,and helped him to change his dress, and mount on horseback.The youth was tempted to think it all a dream, and the flutterof emotion almost deprived him of the power of returning thanksto his generous benefactor. He was soon, however, convincedof the reality of his good fortune, by sharing the lodging andtable of Uberto.After a stay of some days at Tunis to despatch the remainderof his business, Uberto departed homewards, accompanied byyoung Adorno, who, by his pleasing manners, had highly in¬gratiated himself with him. Uberto kept him some time athis house, treating him with all the respect and affection hecould have shown for the son of his dearest friend. At length,having a safe opportunity of sending him to Genoa, he gavehim a faithful servant for a conductor, fitted him out with everyconvenience, slipped a purse of gold into one hand, and a letterinto another, and thus addressed him, — “My dear ybutli, Icould with much pleasure detain you longer in my humblemansion ; but I feel your impatience to revisit your friends,and I am sensible that, it would be cruelty to deprive themlonger than necessary of the joy they will receive in recoveringyou. Deign to accept this provision for your voyage, anddeliver this letter to your father. He probably may recollectsomewhat of me, though you are too young to do so. Fare¬well ! I shall not soon forget you, and I hope you will notforget me.” Adorno poured out the effusions of a gratefuland affectionate heart, and they parted with mutual tears andembraces.The young man had a prosperous voyage home; and thetransport with which he was again beheld by his almost heart¬broken parents may more easily be conceived than described.After learning that he had been a captive in Tunis, (for it wassupposed that the ship in which he sailed had foundered at sea,)“And to whom,” said old Adorno, “am I indebted for theinestimable benefit of restoring you to my arms?”—“Thisletter,” said his son, “ will inform you.” He opened it, andread as follows :—“ That son of a vile mechanic, who told you that one day you mightrepent the scorn with which you treated him, has the satisfaction ofseeing his prediction accomplished. For know, proud noble, that thedeliverer of your only son from slavery, is“ THE BAttfSHED PUERTO.’*Adorno dropped the letter, and covered his face with hishands, while his son was displaying, in the warmest language10of gratitude, the virtues of Uberto, and the truly paternalkindness he had experienced from him. As the debt could notbo cancelled, Adorno resolved, if possible, to repay it. Hemade such powerful intercession with the other nobles, that thesentence pronounced on Uberto was reversed, and full permissiongiven him to return to Genoa. In apprising him of tliis event,Adorno expressed his sense of the obligations he lay under tohim, acknowledged the genuine nobleness of his character, andrequested his friendship. Uberto returned to his country, andclosed his days in peace, with the universal esteem of his fellow-citizens.THE LITTLE DOG.“ What shall I do,” said a very little dog one day to hismother, “ to show my gratitude to our good master, and makemyself of some value to him? I cannot draw or carry burdens,like the horse; nor give him milk, like the cow; nor lend himmy covering for his clothing, like the sheep ; nor produce himeggs, like the poultry ; nor catch mice and rats so well as thecat. I cannot divert him with singing, like the canaries andlinnets; nor can I defend him against robbers, like our relationTowzer. I should not be of use to him even if I were dead, asthe hogs arc. I am a poor insignificant creature, not worththe cost of keeping; and I don’t see that I can do a singlething to entitle me to his regard.” So saying, the poor littledog hung down his head in silent despondency.“ My dear child,” replied his mother, “though your abilitiesare but small, yet a hearty good-will is sufficient to supply alldefects. Do but love him dearly, and prove your love by allthe means in your power, and you will not fail to please him.”The little dog was comforted with this assurance; and, onhis master’s approach, ran to him, licked his feet, gamboledbefore him, and every now and then stopped, wagging his tail,and looking up to his master with expressions of the mosthumble and affectionate attachment. The master observedhim. “ Ah! little Fido,” said he, “you are an honest, good-natured little fellow! ”—and stooped down to pat his head.Poor Fido was ready to go out of his wits for joy.Fido was now his master’s constant companion in his walks,playing and skipping round him, and amusing him by a thousandsportive tricks. He took care, however, not to be troublesomeby leaping on him with dirty paws ; nor would he follow himinto the parlour, unless invited. He also attempted to make11himself useful by a number of little services. He would driveaway the sparrows as they were stealing the chickens’ meat ;and would run and bark with the utmost fury at any strangepigs or other animals that offered to come into the yard. Hekept the poultx’y, geese, and pigs, from straying beyond theirhounds, and particularly froni doing mischief in the garden.He was always ready to alarm Towzer, if there was any suspi¬cious noise about the house, day or night. If he pulled off hiscoat in the field to help his workmen, as he would sometimesdo, Fido always sat by it, and would not suffer either man orbeast to touch it. By this means, he came to be considered asa very trusty protector of his master’s property.His master was once confined to his bed with a dangerousillness. Fido planted himself at the chamber door, and couldnot be persuaded to leave it, even to take food ; and as soon ashis master was so far recovered as to sit up, Fido being admittedinto the room, ran up to him with such marks of excessive joyand affection, ns would have melted any heart to behold. Thiscircumstance wonderfully endeared him to his master; andsome time after he had an opportunity of doing him a veryimportant service. One hot day, after dinner, his master wassleeping in a summer-house, with Fido by his side. Thebuilding was old and crazy; and the dog, who was faithfullywatching his master, perceived the walls shake, and pieces ofmortar fall from the ceiling, lie comprehended the danger,and began barking to awake his master; but this not sufficing,he jumped up and gently bit his finger. The master upon thisstarted up, and had just time to get out of the door before thewhole building fell down. Fido, who was behind, got hurt bysome rubbish which fell upon him p on which, his master hadhim taken care of with the utmost tenderness; and, ever after,acknowledged his obligation to this little animal, as the pre¬server of his life. Thus his love and fidelity had their fullreward.Moral. The poorest man may repay his obligations to therichest and greatest, by faithful and affectionate service. Themeanest creature may obtain the favour and regard of theCreator himself, by humble gratitude and steadfast obedience.THE GAIN OF A LOSS.Piulander possessed a considerable place about the court,which obliged him to live in a style of show and expense. Hokept high company, made frequent entertainments, and brought12up a family of several (laughters in all the luxurious elegancewhich his situation and prospects seemed to justify. His wifehad balls and routes at her own house, and frequented all theplaces of fashionable amusement. After some years passed inthis manner, a sudden change of parties threw Philander outof his employment, and at once ruined all his plans of futureadvancement. Though his place had been lucrative, theexpense it led him into more than compensated the profits ; sothat, instead of saving any thing, he had involved himself con¬siderably in debt. His creditor's, on hearing of the change inhis affairs, became so importunate, that, in order to satisfythem, he was compelled to sell a moderate paternal estate in aremote country, reserving nothing out of it but one small farm.Philander had strength of mind sufficient to enable him atonce to decide on the best plan to be followed in his presentcircumstances; instead, therefore, of wasting his time andremaining property in fruitless attempts to interest his townfriends in his favour, he sold off his fine furniture, and withoutdelay carried down his whole family to the little spot he couldstill call his own, where he commenced a life of industry andstrict frugality in the capacity of a small farmer. It was longbefore the female part of his household could accommodatethemselves to a mode of living so new to them, and so destituteof all that they had been accustomed to regard as essential totheir very existence. At length, however, mutual affectionand natural good sense, and, above all, necessity, brought themto acquiesce tolerably in their situation, and to engage inearnest in its duties. Occasional regrets, however, could notbut remain ; and the silent sigh would tell whither theirthoughts were fled.Philander perceived it, but took care never to embitter theirfeelings by harsh chidings or untimely admonitions. But, onthe anniversary of their taking possession of the farm-house, heassembled them under a spreading tree that grew before theirlittle garden ; and, while the summer's sun gilded all theobjects around, be thus addressed them :—“ My dear partners in every fortune, if the revolution of ayear has had the effect on your mind that it has on mine, Imay congratulate you on our condition. I am now able witha firm tone to ask myself, ‘What have I lost? ’ and I feel somuch more to be pleased with than to regret, that the questiongives me rather comfort than sorrow. Look at yon splendidluminary, and tell me if its gradual appearance above thehorizon on a fine morning, shedding light and joy over the widecreation, be not a grander as well as a more heart-cheeringspectacle, than that of the most magnificent saloon, illuminated13with dazzling lustres? Is not the spirit of the wholesomebreeze, fresh from the mountain, and perfumed with wildflowers, infinitely more invigorating to the senses than the airof the crowded drawing-room, loaded with scented powder andessences? Did we relish so well the disguised dishes withwhich a French cook strove to wket our sickly appetites, aswe do our draught of new milk, our home-made loaf, and theother articles of our simple fare ? Was our sleep so sweet aftermidnight suppers and the long vigils of cards, as it is now,that early rising and the exercises of the day prepare us forclosing our eyes as soon as night has covered every thing withher friendly vail? Shall we complain that our clothes at pre¬sent only answer the purpose of keeping us warm, when werecollect all the care and pains it cost us to keep pace with thefashion, and the mortification we underwent at being outshoneby our superiors in fortune? Did not the vexation of insolentand unfaithful servants overbalance the trouble we now find inwaiting on ourselves? We may regret the loss of society;but, alas 1 what was the society of a crowd of visitors who re¬garded us merely as the keepers of a place of public resort, andwhom wo visited with similar sensations? If we formerlycould command leisure to cultivate our minds, and acquirepolite accomplishments, did we, in reality, apply much leisureto these purposes ? and is not our time now filled more to oursatisfaction by employments of which we cannot doubt theusefulness? not to say, that the moral virtues we are nowcalled upon to exercise, afford the truest cultivation of ourminds. What, then, have we lost? In improved health, thecharm of a beautiful country, a decent supply of all real wants,and the love and kind offices of each other, do not we still pos¬sess enough for worldly happiness? We have lost, indeed, acertain rank and station in life; but have we not acquired_ another as truly respectable ? We are debarred the prospects offuture advancement ; but if our present condition is a good one,why need we lament that it is likely to be lasting? The nextanniversary will find us more in harmony with our situationthan even the present. Look forward, then, cheerily. Thestorm is past. We have been shipwrecked ; but we have onlyexchanged a cumbrous vessel for a light pinnance, and we areagain on our course. Much of the cargo has been thrown over¬board ; but no one loses what he does not miss.”Thus saying, Philander tenderly embraced his wife anddaughters. The tear stood in their eyes, but consolation beamedon their hearts.14GOOD COMPANY.“ Be sure, Frederick, always keep good company,” was thefinal admonition of Mr. Lofty on dismissing his son to the uni¬versity.“I entreat you, Henry,,always to choose good company,”said Mr. Manly, on parting with his son to an apprenticeshipin a neighbouring town.But it is impossible for two people to mean more differentlyby the same words. In Mr. Lofty’s idea, good company wasthat of persons superior to ourselves in rank and fortune. Bythis alone he estimated it; and the degrees of comparison,better and best, were made exactly to correspond to such ascale. Thus, if an esquire was good company, a baronet wasbetter, and a lord was best of all, provided that he was not apoor lord; for in that case, a rich gentleman might be, at least,as good. For as, according to Mr. Lofty’s maxim, the greatpurpose for which companions were to be chosen, was to advance ayoung man in the world by their credit and interest; those wereto be preferred who afforded the best prospects in this respect.Mr. Manly, on the other hand, understood by good company,that which was improving to the morals and understanding;and by the best, that which, to a high degree of these qualities,added true politeness of manners. As superior advantages ineducation to a certain point accompany superiority of condition,he wished his son to prefer as companions, those whose situationin life had afforded them the opportunity of being well educated;but he was far from desiring him to shun connexions with worthand talents, wherever he should find them.Mr, Lofty had an utter aversion to low company; by whichhe meant inferiors, people of no fashion and figure, shabbyfellows, whom nobody knows. Mr. Manly equally disliked lowcompany; understanding by it, persons of mean habits andvulgar conversation. A great part of Mr. Manly’s good com¬pany, was Mr. Lofty’s low company; and not a few of Mr.Lofty’s very best company, were Mr. Manly’s very worst.Each of the sons understood his father’s meaning, and fol¬lowed his advice. Frederick, from the time of his entrance atthe university, commenced what is called a tuft-hunter, fromthe tuft in the cap worn by young noblemen. He took painsto insinuate himself into the good graces of all the young men ofhigh fashion in his college, and became a constant companionin their schemes of frolic and dissipation. They treated himwith an insolent familiarity, often bordering upon contempt;but, following another maxim of his father’s, “ One must stoopto rise,” he took it all in good part. He totally neglected study15as unnecessary, and, indeed, inconsistent with his plan. Hospent a great deal of money, with which his father, finding thathe went in good company, at first supplied him freely. In time,however, his expenses amounted to so much, that Mr. Lofty,who kept good company too, found it difficult to answer hisdemands. A considerable sum that he lost at play with ono ofhis noble friends, increased the difficulty. If it were not paid,the disgrace of not having discharged a debt of honour wouldlose him all the favour he had acquired ; yet the money couldnot be raised without greatly embarrassing his father’s affairs.In the midst of this perplexity, Mr. Lofty died, leaving behindhim a large family, and very little property. Frederick cameup to town, and soon dissipated in good company the scantyportion that came to his share. Having neither industry,knowledge, nor reputation, he was then obliged to become anhumble dependent on the great, flattering all their follies, andministering to their vices, treated by them with mortifyingneglect, and equally despised and detested by the rest of theworld.Henry, in the meantime, entered with spirit into the businessof his new profession, and employed his leisure in cultivating anacquaintance with a few select friends. These were partlyyoung men in a situation similar to his own, partly personsalready settled in life, but all distinguished by propriety ofconduct and improved understandings. From all of them helearned somewhat valuable; but he was more particularly in¬debted to two of them, who were in a station of life inferior tothat of the rest. One was a watchmaker, an excellent me¬chanic and tolerable mathematician, and well acquainted withthe construction and use of all the instruments employed inexperimental philosophy. The other was a young druggist,who had a good knowledge of chemistry, and frequently employedhimself in chemical operations and experiments. Both of themwere men of very decent manners, and took a pleasure in com¬municating their knowledge to such as showed a taste for similarstudies. Henry frequently visited them, and derived muchuseful information from their instructions, for which he everexpressed great thankfulness. These various occupations andgood examples effectually preserved him from the errors ofyouth, and he passed his time with credit and satisfaction. Hehad the same misfortune with Frederick, just as he was readyto come out into the w orld, of losing his father, upon whom thesupport of the family chiefly depended ; but in the characterhe had established, and the knowledge he had acquired, hefound an effectual resource. One of his young friends proposedto him a partnership in a manufacture he had just set up at116considerable expense, requiring for his share only the exertionof his talents and industry. Henry accepted the offer, andmade such good use of the skill in mechanics and chemistry hehad acquired, that he introduced many improvements into the .manufactory, and rendered it a very profitable concern. He :lived prosperous and independent, and retained in manhood allthe friendships of his youth.ENVY AND EMULATION.At one of the celebrated schools of painting in Italy, a youngman, named Guidotto, produced a piece so excellent, that itwas the admiration of the masters in the art, who all declaredit to be their opinion, that he could not fail of rising to thesummit of his profession, should he proceed as he had begun.This performance was looked upon with very different eyesby two of his fellow-scholars. Brunello, the elder of them, whohad himself acquired some reputation in his studies, was morti¬fied in the highest degree at this superiority of Guidotto; and,regarding all the honour his rival had acquired as so muchtaken from himself, he conceived the most rancorous dislike ofhim, and longed for nothing so much as to see him lose thecredit he had gained. Afraid openly to decry the merit of awork which had obtained the approbation of the best judges, hethrew out secret insinuations that Guidotto had been assistedin it by one or other of his masters ; and he affected to representit as a sort of lucky hit, which the reputed author would neverequal.Not so Lorenzo. Though a very young proficient in the art,he comprehended, in its full extent, the excellence of Guidotto’sperformance, and became one of the sincercst of his admirers.Fired with the praises he saw him receive on all sides, heardently longed one day to deserve the like. He placed himbefore his eyes as a fair model which it was his highest ambitionto arrive at equalling ; for as to excelling him, he could not, asyet, conceive the possibility of it. He never spoke of him butwith rapture, and could not bear to hear the detractions ofBrunello.But Lorenzo did not content himself with words. He enteredwith his whole soul into the career of improvement^—was firstand last of all the scholars in the designing room.—and devotedto practice at home those hours which the other youths passedin amusement. It was long before he could please himself withany of the attempts, and he was continually repeating overthem, “ Alas ! how far distant is this from Guidotto's !” Atlength, however, he had the satisfaction of becoming sensible ofprogress ; and having received considerable applause on accountof one of his performances, he ventured to say to himself, “Andwhy may not I too become a Guidotto?”Meanwhile, Guidotto continued to bear away the palm fromall competitors. Brunello struggled awhile to contest with him ;but at length gave up the point, and consoled himself, underhis inferiority, by ill-natured sarcasm and petulant criticism.Lorenzo worked away in silence, and it was long before hismodesty would suffer him to place any piece of his in view atthe same time with one of Guidotto’s.There was a certain day in the year in which it was cus¬tomary for all the scholars to exhibit their best performance ina public hall, where their merit was solemnly judged by anumber of select examiners, and a prize of value was awardedto the most excellent. Guidotto had prepared for this anni¬versary a piece which was to excel all ho had ever beforeexecuted. He had just finished it on the evening before theexhibition, and nothing remained but to heighten the colouringby means of a transparent varnish. The malignant Brunellocontrived artfully to convey into the phial containing the var¬nish some dropjs of a caustic preparation, the effect of whichwould be entirely to destroy the beauty and splendour of thepiece. Guidotto laid it on by candle light, and then with greatsatisfaction hung up his picture in the public room against themorrow. Lorenzo, too, with beating heart, had prepared him¬self for the day. With vast application he had finished a piecewhich he humbly hoped might appear not greatly inferior tosome of Guidotto’s earlier performances.The important day uTas now arrived. The company assembled,and were introduced into the great room, where the light hadjust been fully admitted by drawing up a curtain. All went upwith raised expectations to Guidotto’s picture, when, behold !instead of the brilliant beauty they had conceived, there wasnothing but a dead surface of confused and blotched colours.“Surely,” they cried, “this cannot be Guidotto’s 1” Theunfortunate youth himself came up, and, on beholding the dis¬mal change of his favourite piece, burst out into an agony ofgrief, and exclaimed that he was betrayed and undone. Thevile Brunello in a corner was enjoying his distress. But Lorenzowas little less affected than Guidotto himself. “Trick! kna¬very 1” he cried. “ Indeed, gentlemen, this is not Guidotto’swork. I saw it when only half finished, and it was a mostcharming performance. Look at the outline, and judge what itmust have been before it was so basely injured.”ISThe spectators were all struck with Lorenzo’s generouswarmth, and sympathized in the disgrace of Guidotto ; but itwas impossible to adjudge the prize to his picture in the statein which they beheld it. They examined all the others atten¬tively; and that of Lorenzo, till then an unknown artist tothem, gained a great majority of suffrages. The prize wastherefore awarded to him ; but Lorenzo, on receiving it, wentup to Guidotto, and, presenting it to him, said, “ Take whatmerit would undoubtedly have acquired for you, had not thebasest malice and envy defrauded you of it. To me it is honourenough to be accounted your second. If hereafter I may aspireto equal you, it shall be by means of fair competition, not bythe aid of treachery.”Lorenzo’s nobleness of conduct excited the warmest encomiumsamong the judges, who at length determined, that for this timethere should be two equal prizes distributed; for that if Guidottohad deserved the prize of painting, Lorenzo was entitled to thatof virtue.THE WANDERER’S RETURN.It was a delightful evening about the end of August. Thesun, setting in a pure sky, illuminated the tops of the westernhills, and tipped the opposite trees with a yellow lustre. Atraveller, with sun-burnt cheeks and dusty feet, strong andactive, having a knapsack on his back, had gained the summitof a steep ascent, and stood gazing on the plain below. Thiswas a wide tract of the champaign country, chequered withvillages, whose towers and spires peeped above the trees in whichthey were embosomed. The space between them was chieflyarable land, from which the last products of the harvest werebusily carrying away. A rivulet winded through the plain, itscourse marked with grey willows. On its banks were verdantmeadows, covered with lowing herds, moving slowly to the milk¬maids, who came tripping along with pails on their heads. Athick wood clothed the side of a gentle eminence rising fromthe water, crowned with the ruins of an ancient castle.Edward (that was the traveller’s name,) dropped on oneknee, and, clasping his hands, exclaimed, “ Welcome, welcome,my dear native laud 1 Many a sweet spot have I seen since Ileft thee, but none so sweet as thou! Never has thy dearimage been out of my memory ; and now with what transportdo I retrace all thy charms ! O, receive me again, nevermoreto quit thee!” So saying, he threw himself on the turf, and,having kissed it, rose and proceeded on his journey.19As he descended into the plain, he overtook a little groupof children merrily walking along the path, and stopping nowand then to gather berries in the hedge. “ Where are yougoing, my dears?” said Edward. “We are going home,”they all replied. “ And where is that?” “Why, to Sum¬mer ton, that town there among the trees, just before us. Don’tyou see it?” “I see it well,” answered Edward,” the tearstanding in his eye. “ And what is your name—and yours—and yours?”The little innocents told their names : Edward’s heart leapedat the well-known sounds. “ And what is your name, my dear?"said he to a pretty girl, somewhat older than the rest, who hungback shyly, and held the hand of a ruddy white-headed boy,just breeched. “ It is Rose Walsingham; and this is myyounger brother, Roger.” “Walsingham!” Edward claspedthe girl round the neck, and surprised her with two or threevery close kisses. He then lifted up little Roger, and almostdevoured him. Roger seemed as if he wanted to be set downagain, but Edward told him he would carry him home.“ And can you show me the house you live at, Rose?” saidEdward. “ Yes : it is just there, beside the pond, with thegreat barn before it, and the orchard behind.” “ And will youtake me home with you, Rose?” “If you please,” answeredRose, hesitatingly.They walked on. Edward said but little, for his heart wasfull; but he frequently kissed little Roger.Coming at length to a stile, from which a path led across alittle close, “ This is the way to our house,” said Rose.The other children parted. Edward set down Roger, andgot over the stile. He still, however, kept hold of the boy'shand. He trembled, and looked wildly around him.When they approached the house, an old mastiff came run¬ning to meet the children. He looked up at Edward rathersourly and gave a little growl, when all at once his countenancechanged ; he leaped upon him, licked his hand, wagged his tail,murmured in a soft voice, and seemed quite overcome with joy.Edward stooped down, patted his head, and cried, “ Poor Cap¬tain, what! are you alive yet?” Rose was surprised that thestranger and their dog should know one another.They all entered the house together. A good-looking middle-aged woman was busied in preparing articles of cookery, assistedby her grown-up daughter. She spoke to the children as theycame in, and, casting a look of some surprise on Edward, askedhim what his business was.Edward was some time silent; at length with a falteringvoice he cried, “Have you forgot me, mother ?” “Edward !20my son Edward!” exclaimed the good woman. And theywere instantly locked in each other’s arms. “ My brotherEdward?” said Molly; and took her turn for an embrace assoon as her mother gave her room. “ Are you my brother?”said Rose. “That I am,” replied Edward, with another kiss.Little Roger looked hard at him, but said nothing.News of Edward’s arrival soon flew across the yard, and incame from the barn his father, his next brother, Thomas, andthe third, William. The father fell on his neck, and sobbed outhis welcome and blessing. Edward had not hands enough forthem all to shako. An aged white-headed labourer came in,and held out his shrivelled hand. Edward gave it a heartysqueeze. “ God bless you 1” said old Isaac ; “ this is the bestday I have seen this many a year.” “ And where have youbeen this long while?” cried the father. “Eight years andmore,” added the mother.His elder brother took off his knapsack, and Molly drew hima chair. Edward seated himself, and they all gathered roundhim. The old dog got within the circle, and lay at his feet.“ Oh, how glad I am to see you all again !” were Edward’s firstwords. ‘ ‘ How well you look, mother ! but father grows thinner.As for the rest, I should have known none of you, unless it wereThomas and old Isaac.”“ What a sun-burnt face you have got! but you look braveand hearty,” cries his mother.“ Ay, mother, I have been enough in the sun, I assure you.From seventeen to five and twenty, I have been a wandererupon the face of the earth, and I have seen more in that timethan most men in the course of their lives. Our young land¬lord, you know, took such a liking to me at school, that hewould have me go with him on his travels. We went throughmost of the countries of Europe, and at last to Naples, wheremy poor master took a fever and died. I never knew whatgrief was till then ; and I believe the thoughts of leaving me ina strange country went as much to his heart as his illness. Anintimate acquaintance of his, a rich young West Indian,seeing my distress, engaged me to go with him, in a voyage hewas about to take to Jamaica. We were too short a time inEngland before we sailed, for me to come and see you first;but I wrote you a letter from the Downs.”“ We never received it,” said his father.“That was a pity,” returned Edward ; “ for you must haveconcluded I was either dead, or had forgotten you. Well : wearrived safe in the West Indies, and there I stayed till I hadburied that master too ; for young men die fast in that country.I was very well treated, but I could never like the place ; and21yet Jamaica is a very fine island, and has many good people init. But for me, used to see freemen work cheerfully along withtheir masters, to behold nothing but droves of black slaves inthe fields, toiling in the burning sun under the constant dreadof the lash of hard-hearted task-masters—it was what I couldnot bring myself to bear: and, though I might have been madean overseer of a plantation, I chose rather to live in a town,and follow some domestic occupation. I could soon have gotrich there ; but I fell into a bad state of health, and peoplewere dying all round me of the yellow fever; so I collected mylittle property, and though a war had broken out, I venturedto embark with it for England.“The ship was taken and carried into the Havana; and Ilost my all, and my liberty besides. However, I had the goodfortune to ingratiate myself with a Spanish merchant whom Ihad known at Jamaica, and he took me with him to the conti¬nent of South America. I visited great part of this country,once possessed by flourishing and independent nations, but nowgroaning under the severe yoke of their haughty conquerors.1 saw those famous gold and silver mines, where the poornatives work naked, for ever shut out from the light of day, inorder that the wealth of their unhappy land may go to spreadluxury and corruption throughout the remotest regions of Europe.“ I accompanied my master across the great Southern Ocean,a voyage of some months, without the sight of any thing butwater and sky. We came to the rich city of Alan ilia, thecapital of the Spanish settlements in those parts. There I hadmy liberty restored, along with a handsome reward for myservices. I got thence to China, and from China to the Englishsettlements in the East Indies, where the sight of my country¬men, and the sounds of my native tongue, made me fancymyself almost at home again, though still separated by half theglobe.“ Here I saw a delightful country, swarming with indus¬trious inhabitants, some cultivating the land, others employedin manufactures, but of so gentle and effeminate a disposition,that they have always fallen under the yoke of their invaders.Here, how was I forced to blush for my countrymen, whoseavarice and rapacity so often have laid waste this fair land, andbrought on it all the horrors of famine and desolation! I haveseen human creatures quarreling like dogs for bare bonesthrown upon a dunghill. I have seen fathers selling theirfamilies for a little rice, and mothers entreating strangers totake their children for slaves, that they might not die ofhunger. In the midst of such scenes, I saw pomp and luxury,of which our country affords no examples.Bii- i22“ Having remained here a considerable time, I gladly, a*length, set my face homewards, and joined , a company whoundertook the long and perilous journey to Europe overland.We crossed vast tracts, both desert and cultivated ; sand plainsparched with heat and drought, and infested with bands offerocious plunderers. I have seen a well of muddy water morevalued than ten camel-loads of treasure ; and a few half-nakedhorsemen strike more terror than a king with all his guards.At length, after numberless hardships and dangers, we arrivedat civilized Europe, and forgot all we had suffered. As I camenearer my native land, I grew more and more impatient toreach it; and when I had set foot on it, I was still more restlesstill I could see again my beloved home.“Here I am at last—happy in bringing back a sound con¬stitution and a clear conscience. I have also brought enoughof the relics of my honest gains to furnish a little farm in theneighbourhood, where I mean to sit down and spend my daysin the midst of those whom I love better than all the worldbesides.”When Edward had finished, kisses and kind shakes of thehand were again repeated ; and his mother brought out a largoslice of harvest-cake, with a bottle of her nicest currant wine,to refresh him after his day’s march. “You arc come, ” saidhis father, “at a lucky time; for this is our harvest supper.We shall have some of our neighbours to make merry with us,who will be almost as glad to see you as wo are ; for you werealways a favourite among them.”It was not long before the visitors arrived. The young folksran to meet them, crying, “ Our Edward’s come back—ourEdward’s come home! Here he is—this is he;” and so,without ceremony, they introduced them. “Welcome! wel¬come ! God bless you ! ” sounded on all sides. Edward knewall the elderly ones at first sight; but the young people puzzledhim for a while. At length, he recollected this to have beenhis school-fellow, and that his companion in driving plough;and he was not long in finding out his favourite and play-fellow,Sally, of the next farm-house, whom he left a romping girl offifteen, and now saw a blooming full-formed young woman ofthree-and-twenty. He contrived, in the evening, to get nexther; and, though she was somewhat reserved at first, they hadpretty well renewed their intimacy before the company broke up.“ Health to Edward, and a happy settlement among us I ”was the parting toast.—When all were retired, the ReturnedWanderer went to rest in the very room in which he was born,having first paid fervent thanks to Heaven for preserving himto enjoy a blessing, the dearest to his heart.23DIFFERENCE AND AGREEMENT.It was Sunday morning. All the bells were ringing forchurch, and the streets were filled with people moving in alldirections. Here, numbers of well-dressed persons, and a longtrain of charity children, were thronging in at the wide doorsof a large, handsome church. There, a smaller number,almost equally gay in dress, were entering an elegant meeting¬house. Up one alley, a Roman Catholic congregation wasturning into their retired chapel, every one crossing himselfwith a finger dipped in holy water as he went in. Theopposite side of the street was covered with a train of Quakers,distinguished by their plain and neat attire and sedate aspect,who walked without ceremony into a room as plain as them¬selves, and took their seats, the men on one side, and thewomen on the other, in silence. A spacious building wasfilled with an overflowing crowd of Methodists, most of themmeanly habited, but decent and serious in demeanour ; while asmall society of Baptists in the neighbourhood quietly occupiedtheir humble place of assembly.Presently the different services began. The churchesresounded with the solemn organ, and with the indistinctmurmurs of a large body of people following the minister inresponsive prayers. From the meetings were heard the slowpsalm, and the single voice of the leader of their devotions.The Roman Catholic chapel was enlivened by strains of music,the tinkling of a small bell, and a perpetual change of serviceand ceremonial. A profound silence and unvarying look andposture announced the self-recollection and mental devotion ofthe Quakers.Mr. Ambrose led his son Edwin round all these differentassemblies as a spectator. Edwin viewed every thing withgreat attention, and was often impatient to inquire of hisfathei; the meaning of what he saw ; but Mr. Ambrose wouldnot suffer him to disturb any of the congregations even by awhisper. When they had gone through the whole, Edwinfound a great number of questions to put to his father,' whoexplained every thing to him in the best manner he could. Atlength says Edmund, “But why cannot all these people agreeto go to the same place, and worship God the same way ? ”—“And why should they agree?” replied his father. “Donot you see that people differ in a hundred other things ? Dothey all dress alike, and eat and drink alike, and keep thesame hours, and use the same diversions? ”—“ Ay ; but thoseare things in which they have a right to do as they please.”—“ And they have aright, too, to worship God as they please.24It is their own business, and concerns none but themselves.”—“But has not God ordered particular ways of worshippinghim ? ”—“ He has directed the mind and spirit with which heis to be woi’shipped, but not the particular form or manner.That is left for every one to choose, according as it suits histemper and opinions. All these people like their own waybest, and why should they leave it to the choice of another?Religion is one of the things in which mankind were made todiffer.”The several congregations now began to be dismissed, andthe street was again overspread with persons of all the differentsectsu going promiscuously to their respective homes. Itchanced that a poor man fell down in the street in a fit ofapoplexy, and lay for dead. His wife and children stood roundhim crying and lamenting in the bitterest distress. Thebeholders immediately flocked round, and, with looks andexpressions of the warmest compassion, gave their help. AChurchman raised the man from the ground by lifting himunder the arms; while a Dissenter held his head, and wipedhis face with his handkerchief. A Roman Catholic lady tookout her smelling-bottle, and assiduously applied it to his nose.A Methodist ran for a doctor. A Quaker supported and com¬forted the woman, and a Baptist took care of the children.Edwin and his father were among the spectators. “ Here,”said Mr. Ambrose, “ is a thing in which mankind were madeto agree.”GOODS AT HALF PRICE.A witty Hibernian, just arrived in London, and wanderingabout, perceived a blanket at a shop door, with this inscriptionon it, “ This superior blanket for half price.” Pat walked in,and demanded the price, “Just 5s. sir,” replied the shop¬keeper. ‘ ‘ By my sowl, and that’s chape enough! ” And so,folding the blanket up, and putting it under his arm, he laiddown 2s. 6d., and was walking off. The shopkeeper interceptedhim, and demanded the other 2s. fid. “ Didn’t you say, youspalpeen, that the price of the blanket was 5s.? And, sure,havn’t I given you the half of it ? And by that same token Iwont give up my bargain.” A scuffle ensued, and Pat wastaken to Bow-Street; but when there, he pleaded his cause soably that the Magistrates dismissed the complaint, and advisedthe shopkeeper never again to ticket his goods at "half price."