The great Importance of ^fuitablePreparation for HEATH.jermon;■wH» S A L Mt X X Jt I x. ' 4^JhalliM fis death) &ci;U . " ;v. * % ,1BY tKE-tATE RjVERlA N p R E W G^R A Y>1 minister OF XHE GOSPEL at 'CLASGOtP*.'v-: .*TvSTIR LiH 6s%JTEP AND S<^iD BY C. RANDAt^180ft0The greaflMPORTANCE of a fnkabl<Preparation for DEATH.GE R M OC NPSALM LXXXIX AS.What man is he^st livtti, cm! Jhalt not fee death,n is he^mtIT is to determine, where all that a|here' Thwlbe within thirty years ; for even «|that time come, many (if not all) of us who are he|fhaU have taken up our everlasting lodging. AMwhether we Hiall take it up in the eternity of joy,|''in the eternity of p^.iri; tbalfq hard to determirionly this one thing an^Mk of, that all of us ill(hor<ly be gone ; and ereT^P; the (hadows of def'(hall be fittin? upon tour eye lids and our cye-strif(hall begin to break. Therefore, T wou'd the Tr|ferioufly inquire at you,, what would you thi..death were apprrtch u,; .this night unto you ? Ttfye th t Jefus Cbiist is'gone up to prepare a p'^fcfyou? even for you. Sarely I think we are all Jto eternity, and ihcre are £bme hearing me towhom I defy the world to a (Tun*, that ever the.)-*,hear another* fermtm : therefoifP I entreat voii afhear this preaching, as if it wey ast preac■that ever ye (hould hear, and Cr that we couid ('it, as if it were the last*fennon that t vo' Ve JHpreach unto you. Believe rt e. ^ :th is another ijw not wih many jwhen utfolatiofi!.than we takeat.to oe Ondo in the day of our vifiutiWi,( o“jime frum afar ? where will we flee for rest ; and1 ihere wi'l we leave our g’ofy ? Oid rich men, where(1! ye flee whe i death aflaults ybu ? Old poor men,Here will ye flee when death affaults you ? Old wo¬rn, where will you flee when death aflaults you lU>uii£ women, where will you flee when death af-i jilts you ? It was an ancient obfervation of David,film xxxi'c. 5. that ‘ God had made his days as aniid breadth-’ This either may relate to the^fourfoldi e of man, vT His infancy, his child-hood, hiaijnhpo l, and his oil age, or it may relate to hia•|rfold time of life, viz. His morning, his forenoon,iia‘ternoon, and his evening ; yet, all our lifetimej it a lav. And, O think ye not that our day isnr unto a clofe.sw before tl.at I begin to fpeak any thing fronti words T ih-d! fpralc a few things to thefe twoD tions, wich I conceive n^ay not a together be un«vitable. , " ..jiUiest 1 Whether it is la-vfa’ for any to deflre toli, and re-urn to their long and endlefs home?tether it be lawtul for one to cry out, O time, timeaway ( and al! my flsaflows let them >e gonej thatong eternity may come ?Inf I fay it is lawful in fome cafes for one toto die ; for it was Paul’s < efire, Philip i.m in a strait betwixt two, having a defire to de»}and to be with*Christ, which is far better.* Andv. 2. ‘ We groan earnestly, defiring to beid upon witn our houfe, which is from heaven.*greatly till the t wenty first year of my agewhen my minority (hall be overpast, that Ijoe entered heir to that match ers inheritance*1|;o clear in what cafes it is lawfu’ to defire toI fay. It is lawful to defire to die, when it flow-juan a defire of uninterrupted fello wthip and com-|9 with Christ, and conjunction with him ; this,r, 2 Cor v. 9 ‘ Knowing that whilst we are»ne in the body, we are abfent from the Lord,*1 jtore, verfe 8. * We are willing rather to betat*-(.4 ) , .jfbfefit form the body, and to be preient with the Lord IAlfoit is clear, Philip I - 23 lam in a ftrait betwixt|two, having a defire to depart, and to be with Chrilf,,which is far better.’ It was his great end to havenehr and unmixed. communion with Chri,l, Wfiataileth you Paul, mi^»ht one have faid, m;iy ye notbe content to ftay a while hear ? Nay faith Paul,delire to be gone, end to be with Chnft.’ Wad thounever with him here, Paul ? I have been with himjfaith he, but what is all my being with him here, ik|comparifon of bang * —l ',‘1w ith him abov^: whilft .1am prefent in the bor y, I am abfent frtjm the Lord:therefore. I will never be at reft, faith he, get whsI Will, uriril I get Chrift, until I get thole naked amimmediate embracements of that noble .plant of re:flown, the flower of the flock of jeffe, who is the lighof the higher houfe, the eternal admiration of angels. It is lawful to defire to di , when :t flowetfrom the excellencies of heaven, from a defire to p«take of thefe excellent things that are tlure : thisclear, 2 Cor v. 4. ‘ We groan being burdened ests the word i", ‘ We groan, as they who are prefle:under a heavy burden, that we may be cjotlied uponJkc. What aileth you to groan fo, Paul ? O imh hI groan that mortality may be iwallowed up of life.3. It is lawful to defire to die, when it floweth fro:a defire to be faved from the body of death ; and frothefe temptations that do aflault ust and from theopprefllons whereimto we are fubjeft by it DoubtLPaul defired to die on this account, when he cried oitiRomans xii. 24. * O wretched man that I am,Ihall deliver me from the body of this death !’ he lonjeth greatly for that day, ‘ wherein he Avail be m;white like the wings of a dove, covered with filvewhofe feathers are of yellow gold ’ O ! faith Paul,,am as one impatient, till I be above, where I fh-dlclothed with thefe excellent and cleanly robes, ‘ trighteoufncfsof Chri.t » Oh? faith Paul I thinkvery day a year, till I be poffeffed of that kingclejwhere Sjttan cannot tempt, and the creature caifci„ s f y 1r ] yielfl, and where I fhall be f ee from mr fears officiung-. Now in all thcfe refpefts who would not{Hire to d e ? But to guard all thdie I would give1' you theft four cautions. *I Caution Your defire do dv ihould not be per¬emptory, but you (h iuld defire to die with fubmif-fid i to ti)f will of God ; fo th^t although he wouldfid up fifteen years more to your life, ye fhould be con-J, t'-nt to live, i o>’t.2 Caution When your defires are halty, ard off11,hand, fifpeit them ; lor feme, when they meet Withi an outwaid ciefs* without all delib ration, will cryi nut, ‘ O to be gone, O that f were dead ’ ftutyowfdtfi e, to die Ihould be deiibrra e, but not halty, or■!ji*afh-3 Caution It is not lawful to define to die, becaufeIlf pei fonal affl'dtions, Many, wh n they meet with1 liefer afflictions, will cry out, ‘ O to be gone;' theyong for death even uoou that account ; fuch werelob’s, defirei. Job xxt 22. and chapter vi. verfe 8 9.yl O that I might have my requeit ! even that it wouldIt'eafe God to deliroy me.’ This deiire was very un-Ijliwiul.4 Caution. I is not lawful to define to die, wheft|ny predominant idol is taken away from thee: ydtaefi wsia Jonah s defi e, chapter iv. 3 J ,>nah thoughtcredit and reputation, which was His idol, waijne, and couhl never be regained 5 therefor^ he wiftv, to die But 1 would fay this to you, that fome wilwe ten defires for d- ath. w’» en they have not onehire for heaven And what moveth Chnftians toi : fo defireous to die ? It is not fo much becaufe of theltape, as becaufe ot their anxiety; it is not fo muchtcaufe of their confidence, as becaufe of their impa-unce. But I fay unto you, when your defires of deathje not accompanied with defires of heaven, fufpeAjem 2. 1 would this, that there are fome who1 11 have tea defires for death, when they will noti vc one for the death ofathe body of dratti; but iti:re good for thee, who art fuch, to be defiringe death of the body of death* then Ihouldit thouY <> vt in t more fuitaWe frame to defire to die.3 Some will have hearty defires to die, and yet,when death cometh, they wif be as unwilling to dieas any. It frath been obferved, that fome who hadmuch defire'to die, when death came, have Cried out,O fparea little that ! may recover strength, &cThere is a great difference betw een a delire to d'e,end death itv’elf It is'an eafy thing tobut it is a very great bufinefs to meet with dea‘h, andto look it in the face when it cometh. We thinkdeath (ere it come near us ' to be hut children's pl; y,but when we meet with it, it maketh us change or: jthoughts ; for it is a great bufine's to dieQuest 2 Is it lawful fora Chrictian to defire t•live when he is fummoncd to die ?Artfvv I it fome cafes it is lav. fu! f >r a Christian todt-fire to live, even when he is fummoned to die :which is clear from the p-a^fice of David, Plain*xxxix 3. vhere he prayeth, ‘ that the orJ would,fpare Ir’m a little ’ It is a!fo clear from the pra£f;c«of'good tz.ekiah, Ifaiah xxxviii 3 when he wascommanded ‘ to let his houfe in order, for he fhoulc!tie, and not live,’ he cried out, ‘ Remember nowO I .on’, bow l have walked before thee in truthand with a perfeft heart, and have-done that which rgood in thy fi ht: and Hezekiah wept forethe words are in the original, he wept w thweeping ’ But, to gua d this, take thefe twotionsCaution 1 Thy defire to live (w’ en thou art fumimoned to die) fhould not be peremptory, but willfubnvfifion to the wdl of Cod, that if it be his plea;fure to remove thee prefently out of time, thjifhouldst be content to tie.Caution 2. f) y define to live fltould have gracioit t-principles, and nlro a very gracious end, as is mos Jclear from ^avid. Pfalm xxxtx 13 Where he faith* O fpare me a litt e, that I may recove1* strengthbefore I go hence, and be no more ’ His delire tlive was, that he might '.ave vi.'loryover I is idolA® if he had laid, jr.y defire to live i.-, that I mam trutnwhich i;r:or, a|tli greaitwo cam:t 7 )sue strcnjlh to wrestle with, and overcome my idol*,lijl without al: controverfy, Hezekiah’s Je^re was a[ t precious and well grounded defire However,I mid fay this unto thee, that thou fhouldestexamineI deli res to live (as much if not more J a" thy defilesie ; for we are ready to Ihun death, if we could,he is that u iiverf:;l King, uitto whom all of ust be fubjcct ere long.mow, in the vv >rds which we r.ad unto you, th reyhefe fix things, which might he clearly obferved:i|i themTiiat it is a most clear and infallible truth, thaterfuns fhuuld once fee deai-li, as clear in thefeIs, ‘ who is he that liveth, and Ihall not feelip,1 hat this truth < that we faall once fee death);!)t much believed or thought upon by many jislore it is that the Pfalmi t douMleth tlie alfer-ji ‘ VV >at man is he that liveth, and fhall not fee|ia ; Ihall he del.ver his foul’ (that is, his life)im the hand’ (tliat is) ‘ From the power of the|. >I That fomrtimrs a Christian may win to the fo-Jith of this truth, that once he must die ; this the|iist wan unto, as it is alfo clear in that word‘ Who is he that liveth, and fhall not fee death?*That the certainty of this, that once we fhalltiould b ft ill kept in our mind ; therefore thata' attention, S lah, is put to it. As if .he hade: take heed, that there is none living that fhallaieI' That howbtif fome perfons put the evil day(, as if they were not to fee death ; yet, is thehoming when they fhall fee death, and death fhaUi;:hem by the handWe fhall take notice of this from the context,ihheChriftian, who is much in minding the brevi-his life, will believe the certainty of his death |jt'falmift was fpeaking of the fhortnefs of his life inj receding verb, and, in thi« verfe, he fpeaketfee certainty of death*(81Now, as fnr the firft of thefe things obferved,That is is certain and mod fure, that we (hall odie. I hope th^re are non# of you here who will sny ; altho’ I confefs fome few of vou believe, what«faid hv the woman of Tekoah, 2 Sam. xiv 14 4imift: all die, and belike waterfpilt upon the grou'that cannot be gathered up again God doth notcept the perfen of any ’ And Job xxx. 23. 4 I kthat thou wilt bring me to death, and to the houfepointed far all lining ’ And it is very clear, Ecdviii 8 There is no man th it hath power over j{fpirit to retain the fp'rit, "neither hath he powerthe day of death ; and there is no dieharge in trwar, neither (hall wickednefs deliver thole whogiven to it. It is clear, Heb. ix. 27. ‘ It sappoinunto men once to die ’ So that it is moft clear th ‘mult die. I remember of one Philip, king of Madonia, who had one fubflituted for this very end, toat his chamber door everv morning. Memento ;■memento mori. memento mori, Remember thou art to 1And, it is reported to have been the praftice ofnobles of Greece, on the day wherein their empeWas crowned, that they prefented a marble (loneto him, and he was required after what faftiion•would have his tomb (tone made ? Which prafifpeaks forth thi unto us, that altho’ thefe were rrdeftitute of the light of the fcripture, they were vmindful of death. Believe me, death may furp-us before we be aware : for, it is moft certain, twe muft trie; but, there is nothing more unotain than the way how, and the time when we fldie.D^ath will furprifc fome, as it did Abel in the ojfields, Gendis iv, 8 Death will furprife fome, a:did Eglon in his parlour, Judges iii. 21. And, dewill furprife fome, as’t did Saul and Jonathan infight, 1 'amuei xxxi.Now, in fpeaking to this point, I (hall, Fi!Speak a little to the advantages which attend thithat live within continual light of death. SecondI /hall give you fome caniiderations to prcfs youBMP( 9 )|l prepare for death. Thirdly, I (hall give you foffiadiredtions to help you to prepare for death And then: rwe (hall proceed unto the fecond point of the doitrine*which we obferved from the text, and I (hall (peak a"ffew things, from it unto you, and fo come to a clofe'dfor this timet‘ Firtt then, We conceive there are thefe feven ad-antages which attend thofe who live within the con-inual fight of this truth, that tney mud die.Firft. The faith of approachin. ; death, will make ai fbul exceeding diligent in duty: this was ouv blefledtLord's divinity, John ix 4 11 mud w'ork the work ofil.im that fent ire, whi’e’t is day : the night cometh1 ?hen no man can wotk that is, death, is approach-, tag, ther .’fore I mud woik. It is dear alfo, 2 Peteritt 12 con-pared with verfe 14 In verfe 12. Peter1 exceeding diligent in his dut), end the ground of• ffs diligence isin the i4thverfe, ‘ Knowing, that (hortlyI mud put off this tabernacle,’ &c. Yet it is eveni'e Epicure s argument, ‘ I.et us eat and drink, for toitorrow we may die.’ And, (hould not the Chridianmuch more cry out, ‘ Let me watch and pray, for toiorrow I may die,’ I fay, if the Epicures did makei c of this nc tion, to tftake them vigorous in the pur-lit of their plealures, O how much more (hould atiiridian improve it, for making him vigorous in theIrfuit of his duty ? Therefore I fay unto you all, Oye diligent, for your night is drawing near. Oriftians and expe&auts of heaven are ye not afraidye be nighted before ye have walked the half ofir journey? For, if ye be nighted on your jour-to heaven, before ye come to the end of|ir race, there is no retiring place whereunto ye1 y turn afide to lodge Therefore, ‘ O work,. k, work, while it is to day for, behold death 181! a caching, and then (hall we be called to an ac-ntjecond. The faith of approaching death, will makeI hridian exceeding adtive in duty, be will not onlyiJiiigef: t but alfo exct-eding ferious, and zealous mexercife of his duty ; this is clear from that not&«rSSrr --7)f 10fclc exportation. Ecclts, ix 10. < Whatfoever th fhand findeth to do, do in with all thy mightand tbreafon it, ‘ for there is ro work, nor drvice,knowledge, nor w'if lom in tl e gr.'ve, whither thrgoeft.’ Wherefore O be active, while you are alivfer yc Ihail never work an” more ift> r ye are dercand, if ye leivc bnt one work undone, there i- noEng ol it after death. ‘ ‘['here is i o work,’ tarSolomon, ‘ in tne gravetherefore, O belive-Third. Tiie fai h of this t'uth, that we rr.ufd rdl <1will help a Chrif.i n to be exceeding nnr ified tothings of a prefent world On ! covetous men andwen, would yon fhake y ur hands with cold death l |once every morniiii?, I thouid defy you to purfee tiworl fo much as ye do Paul was much in the medii 1tion of his change, which made him, 2 Cor iv ,8 ■overloo'c thefe things that are temporary, ‘ Wh * jwe look not, faith he, at the things which I !feen, which are temporal, but at the things whi ■are not feen, which are eternaltherefore, chap • .•v i, 2 ‘ Knowing, that if our earthly houfe of ttabernacle were diffolved we have a building of G» ’an houfe not made with hands eter. al in the heave ithen fore in this we groan earneitly, defiring toclothed upon with cur houfi which is from Leavt «:lt,What aileth you, Paul, migtit one have laid, maynot take a look cf the world i No, faith he, * Ft :know, that if our earthly houfe of this tahernwere difloived, I have a houfe witJi God notwith hands, but eternal in the heavens thatknow that ere long the pins of my tabern; clc wil lloofed, and it wi!l tall down about my ears j tlujfore I muitlook for another dwelliug-houfe AnsiCor. vii. 31. ‘ The fathion ot this world paffefh avTherefore, faith he, verfe 32 • I w’ould havewithout carefulnefs, caring how to pleafe the LoAnd Phihppians iv. 4 .Let your moderation ;known unto all men. ‘ The Lord is at hand » As iLao Lid, death is approaching, and at hand ; tinfore, X cotreat you to beXvber. Du: X think manacuta10 bLthe w<it at df ix )U3 will be found like Saul, bid among the ftufF; thatis, we will be lying amongfl the midft of the plea-lures of this palling world. But I fay unto thee,I who art fuch an one, that d.jath will break the firingsof thy haip, thy mulic will quickly ceafe. O butdeath will make thee to have a low elleem of the worldbleffed is the pevfon who hath thefe thoughts oforld all along in his way, which he lhall have ofdeath 3 have not the':mod cu f d wretches heenitlorced to cry out, Oh ! ’ would give ten thoufand1‘jwo'lds for Ciirill: Have not lome peifons, who havesthad the moon upon their head, a id that have madekheir belly their God, been forced to cry cut at death0 curfed penon that I am, that ever t made theiworld my God ? A!as 3 that l contented myfclf with:jthe world. Therefore, I fay unto thee, who are ftich|in one, O flay thy purfuit after the world, for deaths approaching, that will caufe all the worldy com-i (forts to vanifh.| Fourth. When a Chadian bclieveth th’s truth, thatlike mufl die, it will be an exceeding nreat redraint tosijkeep him from finning, as is clear, Job xxxi. 13. com-.apared with verfe 14., where Job, reckoning over manyqgood deedskfone by Limfelf, faith, ‘ Wnat then fliall1 l do when God rifeth up ? and when he vifiteth, whattlhail I anfwer him ?* As if he had faid, firs, miflakelioie not, I am boafting much of myfelf, for I couldKnot have done otherw’lcs elfe what fnould Ido whenijGod rifeth up i how could I ai.fwer to God if I had(done otherwife I think it were a notable pradli 'e ofotach of you, to fay, ‘ O temptation, what will I an-Ji(#er to God, when he rife* up to reo ove me, if Ioihould yield to thee ?’ like wife, Eeclef xi. 9. whereIqSolornon, diffuadiag young men to purfue after theirtcanity, brings this as a rea‘011, ‘ kn >w ye, that bar all: hefe things G'*d will biinff vou into judgement.*t Therefore I fa, unto thee, who art often tempted to,1 s, let d ath and reckoning with God be flill in thyMight, and I defy th e th-ii to embrace half fo many'temptations, as now thyu dolt, X intreit you to oa-( 12 )Twer all your temptations with that ward, ‘ What fhaI do when God rifeth up ? and what /hall I anfwewhen he viiiteth me VFilth. When a Chriftian liveth within the ofthis truth, that h>' (hall once fee death, i wiirmakeItim ex.cceding patient uadtr t-Tcry crofs wherewit- lie meeteth Such a Chriiii i will hardly meet with acrofs but he will qu.et himltif with this ; death willput nie beyond th;s cr -'s, this is hut a cloud that wid!epiickly pafs away. And to. tins caufe did D vid fo i1compofedly put up that Cefire, Pfaim xxxix 4 ‘ Lordmake me to know mine end, and the n.eduve of mdays.* He w-as fure that the knowledge of his eud,1Would, put him in a fobtr and patient frameThe fixth advantage is this, the faith of tpproach*ing death, wilhteach the perfon that hath it, to iludy,faviag wifdom : this is char, Pfaim xc. 12 where Mo«'fes putteth upthisrequeft; So <t ach us to number ou*days, that we may apply our hearts unto wifdom ’ As!it he had faid, I will never think myftlt wife, till 1know that bldTcd part of arithmetic, ‘ ho w to number|-my days.’ I would delire every oue of you all '.o thinkwith yourfelf every morning when you rife, now I ama day nearer unto eternity than I was befor" ; and at;the end of every hour, now I am an hour nearer unto'eternity than I was before ; 1 fay, think often, yeaalways thus, I was never fo near my death as I aminow ; for, Oh ! are we not all nearer unto eternity torday than we were y' Itc rduy ?The feventh advantage attending the faith of ap*preaching death, b this, that it will make a Chriltianvery cartlul in pr paring for death. It is impoffible.for:one to be'ieve realty tlu-.t death is approaching, andlnot to pr, pare for it. Say what ye wi 1, ii ye be hotcareful in pn paring for death, ye have not the folidfaith of this truth, that ye (had die Be ieve me, itis not every one that thinketh !.e believetn this tiuth,that believeth it indeed. And, O l<»w dreadful is itfor an unprepared man to meet with decth ? He de-fircth not to die, yea, he would give a world f rhisilife, but die he matt whether by will or net; forV T-1 f.. ( »3 ) .' 1'leath wil! cot be requefted to fpare a little wKi someth. And therefore I fay unto you all, * fet yG%fe.i ioufe in order, for ye (hall furely die.’ Old men and1i .(women, ‘ fet your Iioufe in order, for to morrow ye[ nay die, and be cut off in the flower of your age"/i fhink not that there be many who can fell time : for,|’|i fey, ye (hall never get time fold unto ye. Alas ! I't fear that the moft p.,rt of pe-rlons that die now, death(ifinditk them at unawares: for indeed che perions thatlie among ua, when «ve come tovilit them, we may> Hve you a fad account cf them, we tnink they areMompreK' .ded under thefe four forts! i- When we go to vifit fonie perfons, on theiri ! eath beds, they are like unto Nabal, ‘ their heart is,ying and linking,' like unto a (tone, 4 within them,’juey are more afteeied with death, then if >t were! fancy ; alas ! for the great ftupidity that hath o\er«eu many : therefore, 1 intreat you to delay not yourpentance till death, left the Lord take away yourt, fo that ye cannot repent for your fenfelelsnefs and.ipid frame of fpirit.2. A fecond let we find in a prefumptuous frame,ying, 1 hey have tud a good hope all Jieir days, andey will not quit it now ; tney will go down to ttieirve with their hope in their right nand, or rather,ip ey will go down to the grave, 4 with a he in theirjeght hand; they live in a prefamptuous frame, and■'ifty die in tt.e fame deluhon. For, when we tellnj, by ail probability they are going down to hell,y aufwer, God forbid, I wav ail my tune a verynelt man or won an ; but I love no' that contclfion,there are many filch honeit men and women in neils day.3. i he third fort we find laving fome convictionsit they have bten piaymg the loot aii tli ir day Lutcan-get them uoiuaiier : 1 fliail only fay to lucn,go down to the grave with convictions m tiieirrails, not making uic of Ciuiit is to go dowm to iieJlJ:h a cancie it t: tir hand, to let them fee the - ay ;dU truly tiie grcutell part tiut die, die m titat man.fwf 1- s’" ( 14I { 4- There are fome whom we find in a felf-righteous frame, refting upon the covenant of works, amtheir o vn merits, and trufting try th'fe to go to he*ven ; yet neglecting the offer of Chriit’s righteoufnefeBut alas! we find not one of a thoufand of this framii||* I defire to be dilT-nved, and t<* be with Chriit, whicllis belt of all ’ And fcarce do we find any in fuah Mframe, ‘ O wretched man that I am, who ihall dclivt jjme from the body of this death !’ therefore I fay thi iunto you all who are here, O ! will ye mind deatl Jbefore it take hold on yon ? Oh ! mind your wor |now ; for ye will find that death will he work enougnlfor itfelf, though ye leave no work till thenThe Eighth advantage that attendeth the Chriftit .in belie ving this truth, that once he mull die, i» thiideatli wM not be fo terrible to him as unto many whe ,it cometh What, think ye, inaketh death a king #terrors ? Whatmaketh many to fliake as the leaf of ,tree, when they are fufmonedto appear before Godl|tribunal ? Is it even becaufe of this, they have not be* jthinking of death before it came, fo as to prepare fiIt. And I fear mary in this place may be afraid ftdeath, and that when it cometh to them, they will fa iunto death, as Achab faid to Elijah, ‘ haft thou four !me, O mine enemy ?’ Surely death wil take you, ar 1bring you to the jurtgrren feat of Chrift ; therefoi :ftudy by ail means to think often upon it, and mak 1ready for it ; believe me, death is a very big wor !for it will make you once ftand with horror in yoi ifouls, it your peace be not m’dt up with God: I kna . !not a more dreadful difpenlaiion than death audlguilty cryifnienct im etirg togetheri'he Second thing that i Ihail fpeak unto from th:firft obfci va ion, v z This is a moft certai.i an 1 infslible truth, that ail perfon 11 :11 once death) Ihi 1be to give you fome confi.iera.ions for prtlfingyou; jpretian for de thThe 1'irft c nfideration is this, ‘ to die well, and) jthe Lord ' is a n- otl ddficult work ; ilnrctoie I intre: 1you to prepare for death It is a difficult worn 1communicate arigut, it is a uiincult work to pray'.i ficult to aright, than to comnrunicatc aright, for it!i is a more difficult vrork to die ir tb* Lord Death willi put the uiofl accurate ChrilHir that <s here to a won-delful fearch, and therefore l will tell y )U nine thingsi that death wdltry in thee? I. Death will try both thereahty and ilmipth of thy faith. It may be ealy fori thee to keep >>p futh under many difficulties, hut dea'h", will put thy faith to t-ie greateit Itrels that everit didmeet with Yea, know this that the faith of theft range'! behever may get, and ordinarily doth g.t, ai ftt at death, the like whereof it never got oetore ;: ; therefore prepare for death. 2 Death will try thyi love to God ; tome p rions pretend much to lu\'c him,i but death will propofe this q itftiou to fuch a perfon,‘ Loveit thou him more than thefe ? Level thou him(ai more than thy wife, more than thy houfe, more thaaIj thy friends but yo r umvillingnels to die giveth usill much ground to fear that many have little love toJ Chrift, but much to the world, and fo dare not anfwer1 the quellion, 4 Lord thou knoweft ttiat I love thee *| 3. Death will try thy enjoyments ; fome of you mayrj be ready to think that ye meet v.'itti many enjoyments,cil fo that ye may reckon, as you thinV, to forty enj y-M ments and fweet out-lettings ; but beware that death:ri bring them not down to twehty : 1 have known fome,Swl-o thought they have met forty times with God, butwhen deaih came, it made them take down the countt >tlie half; therefore, feeing death will uy Uft reali¬ty of thine enjoyments, O prepare for it. 4. Deathwill try tliy pat nee Thou mayclt leem to have muchpa'ience now, but when death come.h, and thou artput to die, it will put thy pa'ience to a gieat trial,therefore prepare f r it. 5 Death will try thy reali¬ty of thy uuties, yea, even thelc dutn 3 wherein thouhadtt moit fatisfict:on, as thv eom numcAtiug angtitt is fare ; :i.y readingit, thou hoj tll that isfwc r i’" l )J / i; thou prayedft at luch a t^e aright, and hope;> ‘ that is fure : thou mcdiutedft at fuch a place arightand hopeft that is fure : but, believe me, death ma-make thee change thy thoughts; for there a e foirperfnns who have cgnimUnicated, and prayed, &e. airight a any in this generation, who, for all that, wilnot find fix duties wherein they can find fatisf*cHon adeath ; therefore, our need is great to prepare for it6. Death wdll exceedingly try thy finccrity when i'comflth : an hypocrhe may go all along his whole wajundifcovered, yet death may bring h m to light, anc tmake it appear what man he is. 7, Death will diko.ver unto thee many hid andfecret finr of which thou ne>vir hadft a thouglit before, yea, albeit thou thoughtefthcfe had been forgotten, d^ath will let thee fee them(landing between thee and the light of his countenance.8- Death will accurately try thy mortification, fomewill think they have come 3 great length in mortifi'cation ; but, believe me, dea<h will try it, and put itto the touch»ftone. 9. Death will try thy hope, vvhether it be real or not. I (hall only fay this, that altthe other graces muh low the fail to faith, and fo it isfaith mutt carry us thiough, bemg the latl triumph¬ing grace, which mutt fit the field for us, when allthe other graces will faint and ly by- It is faith thatmuft enter us fairly upon the borders of eternity; itis faith mult gain-(land all the temptations of death,yea, all the o’hu graces nnift, as it were, ttand by,and let faiiii ftrike the lall ftroke in the war.V he (econd confidcration to prds you to minddeath, is this, that ye are to die but once, and thewroii0 doing of wnich, cun ntv;:r be helped. If ye 'pray not aright, ye may gtt that mended, and, if yeni'd tate not aright, ye may get that mended, and, ifye communicate not aright, ye may get that mended :but -las ! if ye die not aright, tiiert 'S no mending ofthat ; therefore, O prsfpare for death, that ye maydr well, feeing • 011 are to die but once.The third coniideralion t > prefs you to mind death,is this, that they are pronoun-eri bltffed who die in theLore, Rev,, xiv. 13. ‘ Blelltd are the dead which die.)( *7in the Lord.’ O let that provoke you to prepare fdrdeath, that fo ye may die in the Lord, that.is the on¬ly way to make you eternally hapov, I confefs it is ai question difficult to determine whether it be more dif-if ficult to die well or to li /e well ? 1 lhall. not anfwer it,but rather dtfire y/ u to ftudy bothThe fourth confideration to prefs you to prepaie! for de itn, is this Thst thou rh thou put all thy works1 by thy hand before death, vet fhait thou'find that4 death fir; 11 have \v irk enough for itfelf, yea, as much; as thou fhah get done. It will then be much for theei j to win to patience, :t will be much far thee to win toi j the fight of thy jufii'ication ; m it will then be muchjrij more for thee to win.-a{luma tee. O ! then is it notneedful for thee to put all thy work by hand beforethy litter end come ? Wherefore I may fay to you asMofes faH in his long, Deut xxxii. 29 ‘ O tliat theyw. re wife, that they anderllood ting, that they w/mldCo dider their latter end !’ O that ye haO this pieceof divine wifd jm ! I pray you confider that fad word,I,am 1 9 ‘ She rememhereth not her laft end;’ andwhat of it ? ‘ therefore fhe came down wonderfully.*So will he down coming of many in this generationbe wonderful who conlidy not their lalt end.The filth confideration for prefliag you to preparefor death, is this. That their laoour fhall end, butidtheir work, fitill not be forgotten, as is clear from thatKjfortcited place. Hev xiv. i 3- ‘ They reft from theirJilabours, and their wo ks do follow them :* and is notit that a glorious advautig**'?TK fixtn confidtration to prefs you to prepare for: deatn i-, this That death may come upon you ere yenbe aware ; ye know not but death may urpnfe youii. this night before ye go home to your houfes ; andK therefore let that prefs you to itudy a conftant prepac-Ration for death.The f venth confideration to prefs you to prepare•«for death, is this, ‘ That as death leaveth you, fo willhtiudgement find you If death (hall leave you it rang :rslj:o Clirilt, if yr appear b fore him ftrangers to him :,. here fore, I intreat you all to prepare for it. 1 thinkfwer &’Tjg*' f )fhat noble practice of P ul. exce«diug worthy of imi.tation, t Cor. xv 3 . ‘ I die dailv.’-Which, I think,doth comprehend thefe two things: 1. That Panlhad death always in fight 2 It comprehends this,that he endeavo- red to keep fuch a frame as everymoment he fhonld be ready to die ; fo that when,fbever d ath fhould put the fummons in'o his hand, hewen Id be content to anfwer. 2. It comprehended!this, that he lahoureth to lav afide and remove alltilings out of the way, that might detain him fromlaying down his tab made. O ! faith P ml I libourto clear myulf of all hinderances, as that whenever Ifhdl be fumm* njd to remove out of time, I may wil¬lingly lav down rriy life Therefore, I would afk youthis queftion, When fliall ye make your lal teHa-flnent ? I think it were fuifable for us to be renewingour htter will everi day : for in fo doing, Paul madeffn excellent tefiament, she Letter of which n ne thatdied fince have made, t him iv. 7,8 ‘ 1 foughtth: good fight I have finifhed my courfi, I have k -ptthe faith tltefi are very fwcet articles : and th< n headdeth, ‘ henceforth there is la d up me a crownof rigbteoufnefi, which the Lord, the righteous judgefhall give me at that day.’ And think ye not that ve¬ry fwcet, that he would leave fomething unto you inChrift’s name ? viz ‘ And that not for me only butfor all them that wait for his appearance ’ Now Icome to the third thing pr pofed viz. To give fomed’rectii ns for helping you to prei are for death.D'rect’on 1. I iutreat jou be mucti iii preparationfor death every day, for it is even a preparation far'h; aven. to be taking a fight of your grave and latterend vcy dayDirection 2 I intreat you be muc'1 in thofe duties;Firft, in fe’f examination ; that your counts may beclear with God, for many a ragged count fhall wehave when death and we fhall meet Secondly, Bemuch in th-* exercife of repentance, that fo ye mayhave every f ult and corruption in you mourned for,before death and you meet. Thirdly, Be muck inthe txcrcife of faith, ‘ making you calling and eleo'V„( 9 ) ', lure.’ Fourthly, Be much in the exercife of mor»lation, and that wilJ help you to keep a loofe grip,only of the world, but alfo of your idols ; and ife much in thrfe, ye fhall undoubtedly be prepar-or death.Erection 3 Be much in minding the excellent: ;igs of heaven. A Chi iff’ in th it would be p’-emr-' ior death, (ho lid have all his t oughts and confer-on there » think it would he an excel'ent he'p,Preparation ior death, to take a fight of the crown];y da7-jD.rect: >n 4 « Labour always to ke^p z good con-nc ", v id of offence towards Clod ami man I fay,a :r to keep thy conf-.i nee clear, and that fiaall bejjn.'i.nial f<alt unto tlieejl ) rection 5 S ’glv not t'>y known duty, do not‘;!iciry any conviction, neither break any r folution,j1) thefe three together, and t^at wdl exceedingly|b thee *0 prepare tor d.-ath : 1 f y, Le th t ye ad-ture not to flight ?ny kn-.vvn duty : fee that yelenture n t to crucify any conviction, :tnd fee thatiadvcntur- not to break your refolu:ions.Wow we come to the fecond thing wlrchweob*iv d from the vvoids,viz. That this tru h, that wei ll once fee death, is not much believed by an . ofI And to make t iis app.ar, we (hill only givesic evidende1 unto y >u, to prove that we are not as(| prepared f. r death.il Evidence Doth not the unrpeakable flupi-ityit haih overtaken many, (<j th t we are not alople prepared f ir de tli ? Alas ! many of us wou’d(1 ourfelves in a mr»it llup’d temper, it we wereri fcntly to die ; for many of us are no more movedf.h the thi\atenings and terr irs of God, that if they{i not belong unto us; and this faith, we are n t ast prepared f r death2 Evidence That we are not prepared for di. th,lour purfuing fo much ai’erthe vain and p ffing de-riits of a prefe’nt world. Many o; us ‘ rife.up eariyd go late to bed at night, an^ tat the bread of fbrro v■ the day, ‘and load curfelves with the.thick claym'f•mfwf r z'r:r;:   y 20 >:3nd I sir fure that fuch a perfon, being nigbt and ttaken up with the world, is not prepared rO'' d-a.1 remember a word recorded of fuch a wretch d 01who was exceeding rich, faid he, I would givemany thonfands of money, if death will giv.- me Cone day ; yet h ■ got it not And, O how fuddwill death furprife many of as, as it did him.3 Fvidence. Which fpeaketh forth ourunpr pedn^fs for death, i# our impatience under every pticiofs that we meet wkh ; for the prepared Chriltwill be patient under ve-y (harp erodes.4 Evidence That we are not prepared, isrot endeavouring to live with fight of our inter!in God Oh ! if we were prepared for death, Huwe live in fn much uncertainty of ou. filtered in Gtand of our affuranoe of he aven ?5. Evidence, Some of us can let ow td^ls lyour breads fix years without r:p ntar.ee, and witl tver ftudy to mortify them, nor to r-p-iit for theand furelv fuch are not pr pared for deathNow I' / ‘-'at you ferioufly to mind wlnt hath be(aid ; and. that you may the more ferioufiy thiuk uion it, I will tell you fome niaterial cftallengcs thyc.tir conlcience at death will prefent to you, therefotake heed, that ye may know how ye swill anfvVef.t Challenge. Is the dig tingof much tmecious tinand finning away the precious offers of grace Qhwhat will ye anfwvr to that challenge when dea'fiinll prefent it unto you ? Death will fay, or rath,thine own confidence at death. What ailed thee toffo many' hours without either praying, reading, om> ditatiog ? Now, have ye any thing to aniwi •when death fhall prefint this challenge to you ? 1 ittreat vou premeditate what ye will fay : I mtres trou prevent death by prefenting it firil ftrioufiy tyourfelves.2 Ciiallenge, That death will prefint unto y ivwill he for the killing of many precious convictionwhich ye have had. Wnat will each of you nniweat death, when your confcience propofith this chaitnge unto you i Thou mcttcll with fuch a challtogL. . *"i'* f ) r:fuc’i a tif:'", ami went home and crucified it: wi ianother time, thou met with another challenge,d went home and crucified it ; thrfe challenge*11 be laid at thy door, therefore think on them.3. Challenge, Death will challenge you for ai rmal hypocrite way of going about duties : I fay,|ur confcvnce will then tell you that ye went toeh acommunirn with a filfifh end : and, at another, ine, ye prayed hypocritical and f wmally. And,:lhat will ye hav to anfvver when you meet with: lefe challenge'*? I coi.fefs, I know not what ye! n anfvver V' thefe, but I charge you, be thinking|pat ye will anfwer, for t may be that thefe con-1 *tnns ill It ly on your confciences, that even thisy ye have heard two fearching fermons, and did,JijlI with fome conviction*5, but made no .o-od ufe|| them ; yea, and it may be ye did flo p all the time,(jh ! what wiii y? anfw“r, when it ua!l be faidto,i>u, ye went to fuch a fermon, and dept all the[ne ? and ye went to fuch a cotemun on, with no c#er end before your eyes, but to be ften of men ?intreat vou confid?r prefently what ye will anfwerttude.| 4. Challenge, Will be for your breaking of manySecious r f dutions. It will be laid to lome of you,at .t the communion in this place, ye took on vows,d did break them : I a,n lure y cannot queltionlike jullice of the challenge, theretorc fee what ye!|ill anfwer. , -j 5. Challenge, Ye flighted many precious offer ofjie gofpcl. O men and women in this city, what|ill ye anfvver to this ? I was often exhorted toIke Chrift, and yet would never take him. Whatill confcience fay to that, when death fhall tab! itdore you ? I tell you what ye tnuft then anfwer ;’i > curfed I, that ever I refufed Chrilt in the gofpel.1ili.nd ye Aral! then be confounded becaufe thisio your| n ; believ me, there was never an offer of this e«(Jcrlafting gofpel, and oi Cbrill in it, made unto,lnu, that fliall not at death, before or after, bebrought tc your remembrance. And Oh ! how fadAi Iri\ the book where n all your fii.a are written, and bejitwith the fin of fiightin* the great falvation ? 'i huj liinvited you, when yvt were twelve years old, but yewould not come What will yc a dwer to thi-, Haveye any thing to fay ? Or. muft ye not hand fpeeclilefthovv ye will ant wer it.6 Chajlfngt, Will be for yonr finning oftentimej »attaiuft light; and O' how p.inful and i.d a chal- p.lenge will that be at the day of deatn, wtien it wij| Lbe (aid, thou linncdll w th a-witnefe in thy bofom thatthou waft, doine wrbnb ? Thy confidence will fry,oftentimes did 11 11 thee, this is tinfu1, yet v.oul.'eft' |thou not abftiin from it; ani wh^t wid ye anfwerto this ? ''5] sy Oial'enge, Oftentimes ye finntd upon verv- fmalltemptat on, and what will ye anfwer to that ? nmfty#n(it then confefs it, and fay, O ! how often ImveI deferted Chriil, and embraced my idoL upon a f alltemttnion! Now I intreat you, be tluitingwhat ye will anfwtr to t' efe feven moft material chal¬lenges, which ceitainly (hall be prefented to you atceath I afiure you, yc mull cither aniwer all your „challenges in Chnft, tlfe ye will not get them wellan-fwered Therefore I would exhort you to embracethe ofpel, and Cbrill in it; and fo let death propofe ;ever To many challenges unto you, ye may aniwer ,them all rs David die, viz ‘ God hath made with me f« an eveilafiing covenant,* and that will anfwer all .your challenges, ‘though my houfe be net fo withGo i. yet I have the everlafting covenant to build my ,fa v d on up^n *: (\Ti.w to ptefs you to make ufe of Chrift, I (h illgi « you taefe four confiderations.Coufideration i If ye embrace yot Chrift now,death will be very unpleafant unto you O whatelfi* '^mrort thee when going through the re-fr. n : fii'dow of death, but this ‘ lam Chrift’sl am Chrift’s 1’ I# there any other thing caa com. |ytn<re w zltu., _ _! he ip mine ?’ -Icnfideration 2. If ye embrace not Cff^*^great falvation now, it will he an hundred to one'ver ye get time and liberty to do it, when ye areffig to die , For although mmr delay their clof-i | with Chriil till death, yet f'arcely one cf an huh-: I getttth favour to lay hold on C’.irift at death ;llrefore, think on it, for ye will not get your mindI r'MfcDofad at death as yiu imagine, nor all things■ .-efoppofe,:-therefi.rc, now embrace the great,i j ition. * r •*b^onfideration y If ye delay your clofirg withlijrift till death feize upon you, y ihall revqr be a-i to make tip that lofs : hor wih ■ *e deal rife andlife GdS ? Or, fiv 11 a iy come from the land ofgetfulnefp, to take ho:d upon a crucified oavi-? Therefore, O 1 will you take him for your fa!»fton ?Confideration 4 If ye will take Chrift now, he;11 be your guide, ‘ when you are going throughx valley and f a loo of death.’ \rd O how blef-d is theperfon that can fi g that fong, Pfalm xlviii.t ‘ This is my G«^^he :- ib be my gui le even untoeath* If ye cat. fing tha^ pkalant fjng, O howpay ye be comferte:, when your tye-ftrings (halljegin to break : > how happy it he that can iky,ithough Lwalk. through the (hadow of death, yetfill I fr.r no id f r I know the Lord is with me iW- W this is the acceptable day, and the year of falva-:on ; therefore do not deity, but embrace Chriil lellleath furp ie you ere you be aware, and fo that ac-jjteptabl: i<tv be loll. Put tint > thefe who think they1 nay delay till de .th, I fay, furelv thire ™rc manyv ••I damned at’ ijJt« in hell that, fcmet.mes, did think asye think ; I will rr. Ae all wrong right when deathIjind I fhall meet: i tope that ti.ree ^ays repentancef will fatisiy to- c’1 my W eng. For, I am fu e, thereI are reai-y n b. 1), who oi l nev- r get three days toI thin’: upon tick former way , ih- refere, O come,C conic wild embrace thrift prcfemly. Now, are ye1 m3 oo1( fill will it l>e \intc vou, when. ^niT^tViat ycni, tiiai yc TriaH ora tender walking ; for, belii|fwrr^ ^7 f 21 )>'7 «v\ •• the bool* n alU '^Vrini Itlldy   ^ . -   _nie, iher^Sre many of ns who fiiall go tiii'ough dealwith many fciuiijed bones, becaufeof unJendering before God. \Yeknow it is not thefmultitudewords can perfuade; you to embrace Cfnft, for maof you never mind the the thing. But, believe ideath will preach thefe thinss to you in a morerible manner than wfe can do at this time,i/ore,# Godfay, to each of you, ‘ O prepare to n^refor, if death find you in an eflranged flafrom God, I defy the angels in heaven to free yccut of that ftate : and the day is coming, ^herein thcjfli(halt cry out, Oflightcr of the great falvatjofi fhatdlam, I would give ten thoufand worlds for o^e ftrmet iagain that I once heard, wherein Chrilt was fret}'offered to me . when thou (halt be tormented withmr,hope of remedy ; therefore, * while it is to day iharden not your hearts,’ for your late wifhes fhallnoihe granted, when ye are gone, if ye jm&kf-not hafl*}0 there f. re, hafle, hafte in time, and come out frost?the la d of your captivity, and from the houfe of yrruibondage, and take Cbrift for t^r Redeemer, theguide your youth and old age. Now unto hpaawho can lead you through all the ftejw bet|v|ii yotjEi«J heaven, be eternal praife. sfaes.£ I N I 8!:h'i t