THE HISTORY OPThe vdcked Life and honed Death nj3R. JOHN FAUSTUSSHi'V'lNG3ow be sold himself to the devil, to havepower for years to do what he pleasedAlso strange tilings done by him andMEPHOSTOPIIILES.iVith an account how the devil came for himat the end of ‘2\- years, and torshiai to pieces.GLASGOW :s.' 'FiinteJ for the Book-fellers\-<wrTHEII I S T O R YOFDR JOHN FAUST US.Dr. Faustus’birth »nd education: with anaccount of his falling from the Scriptures.Doctor john faustus was bomin Germany ; his father was a poor la¬bouring man, not able to bring up his sonJohn : but he had a brother in the samecountry, who was a very rich man,' but hadnever a child, and took, a great fancy to hiscousin, and he resdved to make a scholar ofCHAP. I,4him; and in orcier thereunto, pnthintotiJatin 'chool, here he took his learning etraordinary well ; afterwards he put himthe University to study divinity ; but Fausrcould in no ways fancy tha': empioymenwherefore he betook himself to the stndyitof that which his inclination is most fcviz. Necromancy and Conj«rati''n, and inlittle time, few or none could outstrip himthe art; He also studied Divinity ; of whi«he was made Doctor; but within a short tirtfeh into such deep fancies and cogitatiorthat he resolved to throw the scriptures f rohim, and betake himself wholly tothe studing of neci omaney and conjuration, chartand sooth-saying, whitch-craft, and the likeCHAP II.How Dr. Faustus conjured up the devil, maing him appear at his own house.FAUSTUS, whosemird was to studyccjuration, the which he followed nigand day; he took the wings of an eag iand endeavoured to fly over the world, toi:and know all the secrets of heaven and earti tSo that in a short time, h« attained pow5comrrand the devil to appear before hin)ten he pleased. One day as Dr. Fansfusis walking in a wood near to WirtembergGer.liany, lie having a friend with himto was desirous to know the Doctor’s i>tt,desired him to let him s^e if he could thend ihe e bring Mephostophiles before liim ;which the Doctor immediately did, and thevii upon the first call, made such a noisethe wood, as if heaven and earth wouldve come together ; then the deyil madech a toating as if the wood hast been fullwild beasts, '1 he Doctor made a circler the devil, the which circle the devil ranund, making a noise as if ten thousandtpgons had been running upon paved>;nes. After this it thundered and ligh*:ied, as if the whole u orld had beenfite. Fatistus and his fiiend amazed atis noise, and the devil’s long tarrying,ought to leave his circle; whereupon heade him such music, the like was neverardinthe vvoild : This so ravished Faustusit he began again tocorjureMephostophilesthe name or the prince of the devils, toi pear in his own likeness ; wdiereupon in anslant, hung over his head a mightyagon. Faustus calls again after his formerauncr. after which tliere was a cry in thejod as if hell had been owened, and all thetortnentes! so.tils had been there ; Faustn^ inthe mean while, askin'* the devil many ques¬tions, and commanding him to show manydiabolical tricks.CHAP. III.How Mephostophilcs came to Dr. Faustus’shouse and what happened between them.H pt A U STUS commanding the spirit tomeet_i0 him at his house by ten of the clock thelnest day. At the honr appointed he cameinto his chamber, asking Faustus what hewould have; Faustus told him, it was hiswill and pleasure to conjure him to be obedi*ent to him in all points of those articles,viz.First, That the spirit should serve him inall things he asked, from that time till hisdeath.Secondly, Whatsoever lie would have, hi:Should bring him.Thirdly, Whatsoever he desired to know})he should tell him.The spirit answered him and said he ha'.:no such power of himself, until he had afijquainted his prince that rul’d over him :“FoId lie, st we have iu!ers o.ver us that sendis out, and command us home when they>Iease: and we can act no further than ourtower is. which we receive from Lucifer,.vho, you know, for his pride was thrusttut of heaven. But saith the spirit, I amiot to tell you any more except you makeurself over to us.”Vvhereupon Faustussaid. “ I will havemy'•equesl ? butyet I will not be damn’d with^ou.” Then said the spirit, “ You mu-tnot, nor shall not have yoer desire, andyet thou art mine and all the world cannotsave thee out of my band .” Then saidtustus, “Get thee hence, and [ conjureee, that thou coma to me at night.” i heirit then vanished. Faustus then began tonsider, how he might obtain his desire, and.>t give his soul to the devil.And while Faustus were in these his devilishtgitations, night drew on, and this hellish)irit appeared to Faustus, acquainting him,iat now he had got orders from his prince to; obedient to him, and to do for him whatlever he desired, provided he would promisei be h,is, and withal to acquaint him first,hauhe would have of him ? Faustus replied,rat his desire was to become a spirit, and4at MephostopHles should be always at hisommand; that whatsoever he called torshim, he shall appear invisible to all men, andthat he should appear in. what shapehe pleas’dto which the spirit arswei’d, that all his de¬sires should be granted if he would sign those,articles, he should wish or ask lor; where-ui jtt Dr. Vaustus vithdiew and stahtdd ‘his.wrist receiving the blood in a sma 1 saticerjv.hicli cooled so last, as if it torwarn’d himot the hellish act he was going to co-ntnit ;nevertheless he put it over embers to warmit, and wrote as loliows,“ 1, John Faustus, approved doctor of di¬vinity, w ith my own hand do acknowledge;and testify myself to become a set vantto Lu¬cifer Prince of Septenrifinal and Oiiental,and to him l freely and voluntarily give both:soul ; in consideration for the space of twen¬ty four years, if I be served in alt things,which 1 shall requite, or which is reasonableby him to be allowed ; at the expiration ofwhich time from tire date ensuing, 1 give tohim all power to do with me athis pleasure ;to iuie, to fetch and cany me where he plea¬ses body and '.oul ; hereupon I defy God and;Christ, and the host of angeL and good spiritsaii living creatures i iac bear ins diape, or on ,whom his image is imprinted; anil to thebetter strengthening the validity of this cove-9nant and firm agreement between us, I havewrit it with my blood, and subscribe myname to it, calling all the powers and infer¬nal potentates to witness it is my true intentand meaning.”rHF.N Faust us had made an end ofhis writing he called Mephostophilesto him, and delivered him the bond; where¬upon the spirit told him if he did not repentel what he had done, he should enjoy all thepleasure Ids thoughts could form, and thathe would immediately divert him, He cau¬sed a kennel ot hounds to run down a hart irathe hail, and vanished : then a bull dancedbefore Faustus, also there was a lion and abear, which fell to fighting before Faustus,.and the lion destroyed the bear ; afterthat came a dragon and destroyed the lion;And this, with abundance of more pastime,did the spirit present to the doctor’s view',concluding with all manner of mudc, vv-’UiJOHN FAUSTUS,CHAP. IV,What happened to Faustus after the singingof the at tides.10seme hundreds of spirits, which came anddanced before Faustus. After the music wasover, and Faustus began to look about him,he saw ten sacks full of silver, which he wentto dispose of, but could not, for hone couldhandle it but himself, it was so hot. This pas¬time so pleased Faustus, that lie gave Me-phostophiles the will that he had made, andkept a copy of it in his own hands. The spiritand Faustus being agreed, they dwelt togeth¬er, and the devil was in their house-keepingfor there was never any thing given away topoor, which before Faustus made this con¬tract was frequently done, but the case is nowaltered.CHAP. V.[ How Faustus served the Duke of Bavaria.'FAUSTUS having sold his soul to the de¬vil, it was reported among his neigh-'hours, sothat none would keep him company,but his spirit piayingmerry tricksforto pleasehim. Not tar from Faustus’s house lived the :Duke of Bavaria, the Duke of Saxony, and tthe Bishop of Salisburgh, whose houses andcellars vtephostophiles used to visit, and tobring the best of every thing they had : cgie11day the Duke of Bavaria invited jnost of thegentry of the country to dinner, for whoseentertainment, there was abondance of pro¬vision got ready. The gentry being come,and reudy-tn sit down to dinner, ig an instantMephostophiles cams and took all away withhim, leaving them lul! of admiration. If anytimefcaustushadaniind for wild fowl, the spi-i k would call w hole flocks in at a vyjndo,vc al¬so the spirit did teach Faustus to the likeso that no lock nor key could keep (hem-out.The devil also taught Fattsius tq iff in the airand toa<ft many things that are incredible, andtoo large for Litis small book to contain,CHAP. VI.How Dr. Faustus dreamed of 1 ell In hissleep and wnat he saw' thei e. 'AFTFR Faustus had a long conferencswish his . spirit concerning the iall ofLucifer, and the sta:e and condition of all thefallen angels, he, in a vision or dream, sawhell and all the devils and souls »hdt were tor¬ment od there ; he saw hell div.ded into seve¬ral cells, or deep holes and for eveiycell, or deep ward, il.eie was a dev12appointed to punish those that were under hiscustody. Waving seen this sight, he ijiuehmur-ve!!id at it ; ftnd at that time Mep-hostopliilesbeing'with hitn. he asked him what sort ofpeople they were that lay in the first dark pitthen Mephostophiles told him they vrere tnosevhfi pretended themselves to he j hysieian?,and who had poisoned many thousands to trypractise ; and now saith the spiiit they havejust the same administered to them, whichthey gave to others, though not with the sametrfect, for’hey w ill never die here saith he.Over their heads was a shelf l:t en with gal¬lipots full of poison- I living past them, hacame to a long entry exceeding dark whet©there was a mighty crovvd3 i>e asked himwhat those were : and the spirir told himthey were pick-pockets ; who loved to hein a crowd* when they were in the otherworld, and to content them they, put themin a crpwtl there, amongst them were somepadders on the high way, and those of thatfuiiQtioo, Walking farther he saw manythousands of vintners, and some rut: lions oftaylors, in so much th^t they could not feelwhere to get stowage for them ; a greetnumbey of pastry cooks with peels on theirbeads. Walking farther, the spirit openinga gtyat ctUer door, from which arose a ter-Tifcic noise, he asked what they were; The1".pint told liim thep were wittlies and thn^evhn had been pretended Saints ;n the othervorld ; but l ow they dnd‘’sqtlahle, fiplit,itiJ tea; f>ne -.‘.nt) otiiei ! Not tar trotn themay tlie uliore nv.nners and aUtilterers, whomade such a hideous aintse, that he wasvery much startled. Walking dov/n a fewrteps he espied um in credible number almostmd-widi smoke ; he asked - hat they were ?the spirit told him they were millers antibakers; but good lack, what a noise wasthe; e among theft; 1 The milieis cry ing to thebaker-, and the bakers cry ing to the miltersfor .Help, but all was in vain, for then*was none to help them. Passing on still far¬ther, he saw tho’sands of shopkeepers,some of whom he knew, who weie tor¬mented f< r defrauding and cheating theirCustomers. Having taken this prnsptct ofHH1 the spirit ephostophiies took him inhis arms, and carried him home to his ownhouse, when he awaking, he was ama/.ed atwhat he saw in his dream. So being cometo himself, he asked tire spirit in what placeHell was, and whcynade it : Mephostophtlesanswered, “ Knowe.-t thou, that bctnre thetall of Lucifer, there was no hell, but up. nhis tall, was hell 'ordained. As for thesubstance of hell, we devils donut know ;ir is the the wrath of God that make, hell so14.furious, and what w'e procured by our Fall;But where hell is, or how it is governed, andwhatsoever thou desiiest to know, when thoucomest there thou shalt be satisfied as far asy/e know ourselves.CHAP- VII.Containing some tricks of Dr, Faustus.R. Famtushaving attained the desire ofJ'his spirit, had now fuli power to actor do any thing whatever he pleased ; upona time the Emperor had a desire to see him,and likewise some of the Doctor’s tricks ;whereupon lie was requested by the Emperor,to do somewhat to make him merry ; but theDqctor in the meanwhile looking around himhe at last espied a great lord looking out at awindow, and the Doctor calling his Spirit tohelp him, he in an instant fastened a largepair of horns upon the Lord’s head, that hecould not get his head in till Faustus took olfthe horns again which were soon taken offinvisibly ; The Lord whom Faustus served so,ws extremely vexed,andresolved to be reven¬ged on the Doctor, and to that end lay a mneout of town for Faustus’s passing by he beingthat day to depart lor the country; Faustus;15coming by a wood side, beheld that Lordmounted upon a mighty warlike horse, wharun full drift against Faustus, who, by theassistance of his spirit, took him and all, andcarried'before the Emperor’s palace, and graf¬ted a pair of horns on his head as big as anOx’s; which he could never be rid of, bptwore them to his dying day.CHAP. VIHHow Faustus eat a load of Hay,A UST US upon a time having many doc¬tors and masters of art witlv him, wentto walk in the fields, where they met with aload of hay : How now goed Fellow,saith Faustus, what shall 1 give thee to fillmy belly with hay J” The Clown thought hehad been a madman to talk of eating of hay,told him he should fill his belly for one pen¬ny ; to which the doctor agreed, and thenfell to eating, and quickly devouring half ofthe load At which the doctor’s companionslaughed, to see how simply th# poor countryfellow looked, and to bear how heartily lieprayed the doctor to forbear: So Faustus pi¬tying the poor man, went aw^ay, and beforethe man got near his house, all tire hay was in16the cart, that the itoctor had eaten, w hichmade the country felh»w very much adnihe,CHAP. !XHaxv he struck a parcel of Students who werehch'ttn'g together, blind; and how he ser¬ved a pam i of Clowns who were singingand ranting at an inn.rTjT"HrRTEEN Students meeting with sevenJi. nsare, ue tr Di. Faustus’s house, fell toejctremely Qrst in words and at last to blows;the ihit ieun heirtr'on hard !■ r theseven, airdX^r. Fitustus look11'? our at l is window andseeing’he fr and how much they wexe overmatched, eonju.ed them ail blind, thatthe one could t.ot see the other, and in thismannet they ion.ght one another, which madeall that saw them iangli : At length the peopie patted li ein, and led them to their cham-fceis. they insUinily received their sight •—The doctor corning into an inn with somefriends, was disturbed by the hallowing andbawling of a pat cel of ci unison Clowns,whereupon when their mouths were wide u-pen, he so cojvjured them, that by no meansthey could shut them a ;-t:v; and alter theyhad stared i-ue ii]i<:n auotittr, without beingable to spuav, iim-tving the) wetc bewitchcu,17they dropped away in a confused fear, oneby one, and never couki be got to the houieafterwards.How Faustus helped a young man to a fairlady.HERE was a gallant young gentlemenwho was in love with a fair lady, livingat Wirttrnberg, near the doctor’s house, Thisgentleman had long sought this lady in mar¬riage, but could not attain his desire, and ha¬ving placed his affections so much upon her,he was ready to pine away, and had certainlydied with grief, had he not made Ins addressto the doctor, to whom he opened-the wholematter. Now no sooner had the gentlementold tits case to the doctor, but he told himthat he need not be afraid, for his desireshould be fulfilled, ar.d that he should haveher, whom he so much desired, and that thisgentlewoman should have gone but him,which was accordingly done, for the doctorso changed her mind, that she could think ofnothi ng else but him whom before she haled ;and Faustus’s desire was this ; He gave himISan inchanted ring which he ordered him toput into the lady’s hand, or to slip it on herfinger, which he did : and no sooner she gotthe ring than her heart burnt with love tohim; she instead of frowns, could do noth¬ing but smile upon him, and not be at resttill she asked him if he thought he could loveher, and make her his wife? he gladly an¬swered with ali his heart. So they were mar¬ried the next day, and all by the help of Dr.Faustus.CHAP. XI.How Faustus made seven women dance naiked in the Market place.*FAUSTUS walking in the market-place,saw seven women sitting all in a row,selling eggs, butter, &c. Of every one hebought something and departed : No soonerwas he gone, but all the eggs and butter,were gone out of their baskets and they knewnot how : At last they were told, that Dr.Faustus had conjured their goods away ; theythereupon ran speedily to the Doctor’s house,and so demanded satisfaction for the ware ;He resolving to make himself and the town’speople merry by his conjuring Art, made them1J.19retuvn totheir baskets naked as ever they wereborn : and having danced a while in the mar-ket placee\ery one’sgoods were conjured intotheir baskets again and they set at liberty.How Faustu^served a Country Fellow whoR. Faustus, as he was going to witfem-bergovertook aCountry Fellow drivingan hundred Swine, who were very head¬strong some running one way and some an¬other ; so that the driver eould not tell howto get them drove along : The doctor ta¬king notice ot it, so by his conjuring art, hemade every one of them dance upon theirtwo hind legs, with a fiddle in one of theirfore feet, and with the other fore foot theyplayed upon the fiddle, and so they dancedand fiddled all the way until they came in¬to Wirtemberg market The driver of themdancing all the way before them, which madethe people wonder : After the Doctor hadsatisfied himself with the spirit he conjuredail of the fiddles away, and the driver thenC II A P- XII,was driving of Swine20offered them to s*1e, and quickly sold thema!i, and look the money ; but before he wasgone out of the house Faustus had conjuredall the fcogs out of the market place, and sentthem all home to the drivers house. Theman who bought iheiu, seeing all the swinegone, stopped the man who sold them andwould have hT money, which he was forcedto pay, and so returned home sorrowful, artdnot knowing wtiat to do ; but to his greatsurprise, found all the swine in their slies.CHAP, XIII.How Faustus begun to bethink himself of theneijr approach of his end.FAUSTUS baying spun out his twenty-four years, within a month or two, be- 11gan to consider what he should do to cheatthe devil, but could not find any way to pre¬vent his miserable end, which was now ne<*r,whereupon hethusci ies out to himself, Oil!miserable wretch that! am. 1 have given my¬self to the devil, for a few years pleasure, and• rn21now I must pay full dear ; I have had my de¬sires ; my filthy lusts l have satisfied, and Imust be tormented for ever and ever.A neighbour of his, a very good old manhearing «f his way of living, in compassion tohis soul came to him, and with tears in hiseyes, besought him to have more regard to hism<*st precious soul, laying before him th*promise ot God’s grace and mercy, freely of¬fered to r open dog sinners,and spake sofeeling-ly that I’anstus sited tears, and promised tohim, that he would try to repent. This goodman was no sooner gone away but Mephosto-philes found him pensive and on his bed, nowIVIephostophilesmustering whatbad happenedbegan to reproach him with breach of cove¬nant to his Lord Lucifer and thereupon al¬most twisted his neck behind him which madehim cry out very lamentable in the mean timethreatening to tear him to pieces, unless he re¬newed his obligation, which for fear, withmuch sorrow he did, in a manner the same asthefurmer, which he confirmed by tbg later-22CHAP. XIV.How Dr. Faustns was warned of the Spiritto prepare for bis endFAUSTUS’s full time bein£ come, tinspirit appeared to him, and shewed birrhis writing, and told him that the next nighithe devil would fetch him away, windmade the Doctor s hfeart toake : But to diverhimself, he sent for some Doctors and mastebachelors of arts, and other students to tafedinner with him, for whom he provided greastore of varieties, with music and the likeBut all would not keep up his spirits, ftthe hour drew near : Where upon his couttenance changing the Doctors and mastesof arts enquired of him the reasons of hmelancholmess ? To which Faustus answere“ My friends, you have knew me themany years and how I have practised ^manner of wickedness; I have been a gre:conjurer, which devilish art I obtainedthe devil ? and also to obtain power to >whatever I pleased I sold myself to tdevil for twenty four years time, whifull time being ou.t this night, makes 3full of horror, I have called you my friesI23 'to see this my dreadful end : and I pray letmy miserable death be a warning to you all,how you study the devilish art of conjuring ;for if once you begin it, a thousand to onebut it wiH lead you to the devil whither I amthis night to go , whether I will or not.They hearing of this sad story blamed him forconcealing it so long, telling them if he hadmade them acquainted before that theythought it might have been prevented. Hetold them he had a desire several times tohave disclosed this intrigue; but thedevil toldhim, that If he did, he would presently fetchhim awjiy ; he also told them, he had a desireto join with the godly, and to leave off thatw icked course but immediately thedevil usedto come and torment him, &c. “ But now,saith Faustus, it is but in vain for me to talkof what I did intend, fer I have sold myself tothe devil, body and soul is his.” No soonerhad he spoke these words, but suddenly it fellathundeiing and lightening, the like was ne¬ver heard ; whereupon Faustus went into thegreat hall, tire doctors and masters staying inthe next room, intending to hear his end.About twelve o’clock the house shook so ter¬ribly that they thought it would have beendown upon them, and suddenly the windows24-house were broken to piece?, so tjiat they trem-biedand w idled ihemselveselse where when up>on a great dap.of thunder, v4th a whirlwindthe doors flew open and a mighty rushing ojwind entered with the hissing of serpents*shrieks and cries upon which he lamentablycried out, Murder, and there was such roaringin the hall as if all the devils in heil had beerjtheir. When day-light appeared, they look theboldness to enter into the room, and foundhis brains beaten out against the wail, anthe floor sprinkled with blood ; but missinhis body the went in search of it and found t!on the" dung-hill many led and mashed t<1pieces. So ended this miserable wretch’s life!forsaking God, and all goodness and given upto his implacable enemy which we hope maystand not only as a fearful, but lasting menu-nient and warning to others.■ iir- f*-,