HISTORYOF THE LIFE & SUFFERINGSOF THEGLASGOW:'* OF SCOTLK^^PRINTED FOR THEas . , ^.-.r : ;,! A adofl 3HT SOI aSLTmSS.THELIFE OF JOHN WELCH.Mr. Johx Welch Was bom a gentleman, his fatherbeing laird of Colieston, (an estate rather com¬petent, than large, in the ghire of Kithsdale) aboutthe year 1570, the dawning Of our reformationbeing then but dark. He was a rich example ofgrace and mercy, but the night went before theday, being a most hopeless extravagant boy : it wasnot enough to him, frequently when ho was a youngstripling to run away from the School and play thetruant; but after he had passed his grammar, andwas come to be a youth, he left the school, and hisfather’s house, and went and joined himself to thethieves on the English border, who lived by robbingthe two nations, and amongst them ho stayed tillhe spent a suit of clothes. Then he was clothedonly with rags, the prodigal’s misery brought himto the prodigal’s resolution, so he resolved toreturn to his father’s house, but durst not adven¬ture, till he should interpose a reconciler. So inhis return homeward, he took Dumfries in his way,where he had an aunt, one Agnes Forsyth, and withher ho diverted some days, earnestly entreating herto reconcile him to his father. While ho lurked inher house, his father camo providentially to thehouse to salute his cousin, Mrs. Forsyth ; and after4they had talked a while, she asked him, whether hehad ever heard any news of his son John ; to herhe replied with great grief, 0 cruel woman, howcan you name his name to me ? The first news Iexpect to hear of him, is, that he is hanged for athief. She answered, many a profligate boy hadbecome a virtuous man, and comforted him. Heinsisted upon his sad complaint, but asked whethershe knew his lost son was yet alive. She answered,Yes, he was, and she hoped he should prove a betterman than he was a boy, and with that she calledupon him to come to his father. He came weepingand kneeled, beseeching his father, for Christ’ssake, to pardon his misbehaviour, and deeply en¬gaged to be a new man. His father reproached himand threatened him. Yet, at length, by the boy’stears, and Mrs. Forsyth’s importunities, he waspersuaded to a reconciliation. The boy entreatedhis father to send him to the college, and there totry his behaviour, and if ever thereafter he shouldbreak, he said he should be content his father shoulddisclaim him for ever: so his father carried himhome, and put him to the college, and there hebecame a diligent student, of great expectation,and shewed himself a sincere convert, and so heproceeded to the ministry.His first post in the ministry was at Selkirk,while he was yet very young, and the country rude ;while he was there, his ministry was rather admir¬ed by some, than received by many; for he wasalways attended by the prophet’s shadow, thehatred of the wicked ; yea, even the ministers ofthe country, were more ready to pick a quarrelwith his person, than to follow his doctrine, as mayappear to this day in their synodical records, wherewe find he had many to censure him, and only someto defend him ; yet it was thought his ministry inthat place was not without fruit, though he stayedhut a short time there. Being a young man un¬married, he lodged himself in the house of oneMitchelhill, and took a young hoy of his to be hisbed-fellow, who to his dying day retained both arespect to Mr. Welch and his ministry, from theimpressions Mr. Welch’s behaviour made upon hismind though but a child.The special cause of his leaving Selkirk, was aprofane gentleman in the country (one Scot ofHeadschaw, whose family is now extinct) butbecause Mr. Welch had either reproved him, ormerely from hatred, Mr. Welch was most unwor¬thily abused by the unhappy man, amongst tiiorestof the injuries he did him, this was one, Mr. Welchkept always two good horses for his use, and thewicked gentleman when he could do no more,either with his own hand, or his servants, cut offthe rumps of the two innocent beasts, upon whichfollowed such effusion of blood, that they both died,which Mr. Welch did much resent, and such baseusage as this persuaded him to listen to a call tothe ministry at Kirkcudbright, which was his nextpost.But when he was about to leave Selkirk, hecould not find a man in all the town to transporthis furniture, except one Ewart, who was at thattime a poor young man, but master of two horses,with which he transported Mr. Welch’s goods, andso left him, but as he took his leave, Mr. Welchgave him his blessing, and a piece of gold for atoken, exhorting him to fear God, and promised hoshould never want, which promise, providence madegood through the whole course of his life, as wasobserved by all his neighbours.6At Kirkcudbright lie stayed not long ; but therehe reaped a harvest of converts, which subsistedlong after his departure, and were a part of Mr.Samuel Rutherfoord’s flock, thotigh not his parish,while lie was minister at Anwith : yet When hiscall to Ayr came to him, the people of the parishof Kirkcudbright never offered to detain him, sohis transportation to Ayr was the more easy.Mr. Welch was transported to Ayr ill the year1590, and there lie continued till he was baiiished,there he had a very hard beginning, but a goodending ; for when he came first to the town, thecountry was so wicked, and the hatred of godlinessso great, that there could not be found one in allthe town, that would let him a house to dwell in,so he was constrained to accommodate himself inthe best he might, in a part of a gentleman’s housefor a time, the gentleman’s name Was John Stewart,he was an eminent Christian, and a great assistantof Mr. Welch.And wheii ho had first taken Up his residence inthat town, the place was sb ditided into factions,and filled with bloody Conflicts, a man could hardlywalk the streets with safety; wherefore Mr, Welchmade it his flrst undertaking to remove the bloodyquafrelings, hut he found it a very difficult work ;yet such was his earnestness to pursue his design,that many times he would rush betwixt two parties Ofmen fighting, even in the midst of blood and Wounds.His manner Was, after he had ended a Skirmishamongst his neighbours, and reconciled these bitterenemies, to caUse them to cover a table upon thestreet, and there brought the enemies together, andbegining with prayer he persuaded them to protestthemselves friends, and then to eat and drinktogether, then last of all, he ended the work With7singing a psalm: after tlie rude people began toobserve bis example, and listeii to his heavenlydoritrine, he came quickly to that respect amongstthem that he became not only a necessary counsel¬lor, without whose counsel they would do nothing,hut an example to imitate, and so he buried thebloody quarrels.Ho gave himself wholly to ministerial exercises,he preached once every day, he prayed the thirdpart of his time, was unwearied in his studies, andfor a proof of this, it was foilhd among his papers,that he had abridged Suarez's metaphysics, whenthey came first to his hand, even when he was wellstricken in years. By all which, it appears, thathe has not only been a man of great diligence hutalso of a strong and robust natural constitution,otherwise ho had never endured the fatigue.But if his diligence was great, so it is doubtedwhether his sowing in painfulness, or his harvestin his success was greatest; for if either his spirit¬ual experiences in seeking the Lord, or his fruitful¬ness in converting souls be considered, they will befound uriparalleled in Scotland : and many yearsafter Mr. Welch’s death, Mr. David Dickson, atthat time a flourishing minister at Irvine, wasfrequently heard to say, when people talked to himof the success of his ministry, that the grapegleanings in Ayr, in Mr. Welch’s time, were flu-above the vintage of Irvine, in his own. Mr.Welch, iii his preaching, was spiritual and searching,his utterance tender and moving : he did not muchinsist upon scholastic purposes, ho made no showof his learning. I once heard one of his hear¬ers say, That no man could hear him and for¬bear wcepmg, his conveyance was so affecting.There is it large Valuta e of his sermons, nowin Scot-8land, wherein he makes it appear, his learning wasnot behind his other virtues: this also appears in an¬other piece, called Dr. Welch’s Annagaddon, printed,I suppose, in France, wherein he gives his meditationupon the enemies of the church, and their destruc¬tion ; but the piece itself is rarely to be found.Sometimes before he went to sermon, he wouldsend for his elders, and tell them, he was afraid togo to pulpit because he found himself sore deserted ;and thereafter desire one or more to pray, and thenhe would venture to pulpit. But, it was observed,this humbling exercise used ordinarily to be follow¬ed, with a flame of extraordinary assistance : sonear neighbours are many times contrary disposi¬tions and frames. He would many times retire tothe church of Ayr, which was at some distancefrom the town, and there spend the whole night inprayer : for he used to allow his aflbctions full ex¬pression, and prayed not only with audible, butsometimes, loud voice, nor did he irk, in thatsolitude, all the night over, which hath, it may be,occasioned the contemptible slander of somemalicious enemies, who were so bold as to call himno less than a witch.There was in Ayr, before he came to it, an agedman a minister of the town, called Porterfield, theman was judged no bad man, for his personal in¬clinations, but so easy a disposition, that he usedmany times to go too great a length with hisneighbours in many dangerous practices; andamongst the rest, he used to go to the bow-buttsand archery, on Sabbath afternoon, to Mr. Welch’sgreat dissatisfaction. But the way he used toreclaim him, was not bitter severity, but this gentlepolicy; Mr. Welch together with John Stewart,and Hugh Kennedy, his two intimate friends, used9to spend the Sabbath afternoon in religious con¬ference and prayer, and to this exercise they invitedMr. Porterfield, which he could not refuse, bywhich means he was not only diverted from hisformer sinful practice, but likewise brought to amore watchful, and edifying behaviour in his courseof life.He manned Elizabeth Knox, daughter to thefamous Mr. John Knox, minister at Edinburgh,the apostle of Scotland, and she lived with himfrom his youth till his death. By her I have heard1 he had three sons: the first was called Dr. Welch,a doctor of medicine, who was killed in the lowcountries, and of him I never heard more. Anotherson he had most lamentably lost at sea, for whenj the ship in which he was embarked was sunk, heI swam to a rock in the sea, but starved there forwant of necessary food and refreshment, and when' sometime afterward his body was found upon therock, they found him dead in a praying postureupon his bended knees, with his hands stretchedout, and this was all the satisfaction his friends andthe world had upon his lamentable death, so bitter■ to his friends. Another he had who was heir to1 his father's grace and blessings, and this was Mr.> Josias Welch, minister at Temple-Patrick in theij north of Ireland, commonly called the Cock of theConscience by the people of that country, becauseI of his extraordinary wakening and rousing gift: he; I was one of that blest society of ministers, which■ / wrought that unparalleled work in the north of1 Ireland, about the year 1636, but was himself afj man most sadly exercised with doubts about hiso own salvation all his time, and would ordinarilyId say, That ministers was much to be pitied, who1 n was called to comfort weak saints and had no10comfort himself. He died in his youth, and leftfor his successor, Mr. John Welch minister at Iron-Gray in Galloway, the place of his grandfather’snativity. What business this made in Scotland, intho time of the late Episcopal persecution, for thespace of twenty years, is known to all Scotland,lie maintained his dangerous post of preaching thegospel upon the mountains of Scotland, notwith¬standing of the threatnings of tho state, the hatredof tho bishops, the price set upon his head, and allthe fierce industry of his cruel enemies. It is wellknown that bloody Glaverhouse upon secret infor¬mation from his spies, that Mr. John Welch was toie found at some lurking place at forty milesdistance, would make all that long journey in onewinter’s night, that he might catch him, hut whenlie came ho always missed his prey. I never heardof a man that endured more toil, adventured uponmore hazards, escaped so much hazard, not in theworld. He used to tell his friends who counselledhim to be more cautious, and not to hazard himselfso much, That he firmly believed dangerous under¬takings would be his security, and when ever lieshould give over that course and retire himself, Insministry should come to an end ; which accordinglycame to pass, for when after Bothwell bridge, lieretired to London, tho Lord called him by death,and there he was honourably buried, not far fromthe king's palace.Hut to return to our old Mr. Welch ; as the dutywherein ho abounded and excelled most was prayer,so his greatest attainments fell that way. He usedto say, He wondered how a Christian could lie inbed all night, and not rise to pray, and many timesho watched. One night he rose from his wife, andwent into the next room, where he stayed so long11at secret prayer, that hi-; wife fearing he mightcatch cold, was constrained to risje and follow him,and as she hearkened, she heard him speak as byinterrupted sentences, Lord wilt thou not grant meScotland, and after a pause, Enough, Lord, enough,and so she returned to her bed, and he followingher, not knowing she had heard him, but when hewas by her, she asked him what he meant by saying,Enough, Lord, enough. He shewed himself dis¬satisfied with her curiosity, but told her, he hadbeen wrestling with the Lord for Scotland, andfound there was a sad time at hand, but that theLord would be gracious to a remnant. This wasabout the time when bishops first orerspread theland, and corrupted the church. This was morewonderful I am to relate, I heard once an honestminister, who was a parishioner of Mr. Welchmany a day, say, ‘ That one night as he watched Inhis garden very late, and some friends 'waiting uponhim in his house and wearying because of his longstay, 011P of them chanced to open a window towardthe place where he walked, and saw clearly a strangelight surrounding him, and heard him speak strangew u-ds about his spiritual joy,’ J do neither add noralter, I am the more induced to believe this that Ihave heard from as good a hand as any in Scotland,that a very godly rpan, though not a minister, afterhe had spent a whole night in a country house, inthe inuir, declared confidently, he saw such anextraordinary light ps this himself, which was tohim both matter of wonder and astonishment.But though Mr. Welch had upon the account of hisholiness, abilities, and success, acquired among hissubdued people, a very great respect, yet was henever in such admiration, as after the great plasruewhich raged in Scotland in Ids time.12And one cause vras this: The magistrates of Ayr,forasmuch as this town alone was free, and thecountry about infected, thought fit to guard theports with sentinels, and watchmen; and one daytwo travelling merchants, each with a pack of clothupon a horse, came to the town desiring entrancethat they might sell their goods producing a passfrom the magistrates of the town whence they came,which was at that time sound and free ; yet not¬withstanding all this the sentinels stopt them tillthe magistrates were called ; and when they came,they would do nothing without their minister’sadvice: so Mr. Welch was called, and his opinionasked ; he demurred, and putting off his hat withhis eyes toward heaven for a pretty space, thoughhe uttered no audible words, yet continued in apraying gesture: and after a little space told themagistrates they would do well to discharge thesetravellers their town, affirming with great assevera¬tion, the plague was in their packs, so the magis¬trates commanded them to be gone, and they wentto Cumnock, a town some twenty miles distant,and there sold their goods, which kindled such aninfection in that place, that the living were hardlyable to bury their dead. This made the peoplebegin to think Mr. Welch as an oracle. Yet as hewalked with God, and kept close with him, so heforgot not man, for he used frequently to dineabroad with such of his friends, as he thought werepersons with whom he might maintain the com¬munion of the saints ; and once in the year he usedalways to invite all his familiars in the town to atreat in his house, where there was a banquet ofholiness and sobriety.And now the scene of his life begins for to alter;but before his blessed sufferings, he had this strangewarning.One night he rose from his wife, and went intogarden, as his custom was, but stayed longer thanordinary, which troubled his wife, who, when hereturned, expostulated with him very hard, for hisstaying so long to wrong his health ; he bid her bequiet, for it should be well with them. But hej knew well, he should never preach more at Ayr;and accordingly before the next Sabbath, he wascarried prisoner to Blackness castle. After that,he, with many others were brought before thecouncil of Scotland, at Edinburgh, to answer fortheir rebellion and contempt, in holding a generalassembly, not authorised by the king. And becauseI they declined the secret council, as judges com¬petent in causes purely spiritual, such as the natureand constitution of a general assembly is, they werefirst remitted to the prison at Blackness, and otherplaces. And thereafter, six of the most consider¬able of them, were brought under night fromBlackness to Linlithgow before the criminal judges,, to answer an accusation of high treason, at theinstance of Sir Thomas Hamilton, king’s advocate,for declining, as he alledged, the king’s lawful; authority, in refusing to admit the council judges•| competent in the cause of the nature of church; judicatories ; and after their accusation, and answerwas read, by the verdict of a jury of very consider-I able gentlemen, condemned as guilty of highI treason, the punishment continued till the king’spleasure should be known, and thereafter theirpunishment was made banishment, that the cruelj sentence might someway seem to soften their severeii punishment as the king had contrived it.But before he left Scotland, some remarkable14passages m liis Ltiliaviour are to be remembered.And first when the dispute about chureh-govern-tnent began to warm ; as he was walking upon thestreet of Edinburgh, betwixt two honest citizens,he told them, they had in their town two greatministers, who were no great friends to Christ’scause, presently in controversy, but it should beseen, the world should never hear of their repent¬ance. The two men were Mr. Patrick Galloway,and Mr. John Hall; and accordingly it came topass, for Mr. Patrick Galloway died easing himselfupon his stool; and Mr. John Hall, being at thattime in Leith, and his servant woman having lefthim alone in his house while she went to themarket, he was found dead all alone at her return.He was sometime prisoner in Edinburgh castlebefore he went into exjle, where one night sitting atsupper with the lord Ochiltry, who was an uncle toMr. Welch’s wife, as his manner was, he entertain¬ed the company with godly and edifying discourse,which was well received by all the company saveonly one debauched popish young gentleman, whosometimes laughed, and sometimes mocked andmade faces ; whereupon Mr. Welch brake out intoa sad abrupt charge upon all the company to besilent, and observe the work of the Lord upon thatprophaue mocker, which they should presentlybehold; upon which immediately the prophanewretch sunk down and died beneath the table, butnever returned to life again, to the great astonish¬ment of all the company.Another wonderful story they tell of him at thesame time ; the lord Ochiltry the captain, beingboth sons to the good lord Ochiltry. and Mr. Welch’suncle in law, was indped very civil to Mr. Welch,but being for a long time, through the multitudegf affairs, kept from visiting Mr. Welch in hiachamber, as he was one day walking in the court,and espying Mr. Welch at his chamber windowasked him kindly how he did, and if in any thinghe could serve him. Mr. Welch answered him,lie would earnestly entreat Ids lordship, being atthat time to go to court, to petition king James inhis name, that he might have liberty to preach thegospel; which my lord promised to do. Mr. Welchanswered, my lord, both because you are mykinsman, and other reasons, I would earnestlyentreat, and obtest you not to promise except youfaithfully perform. My lord answered, lie wouldfaithfully perform his promise ; and so went forLondon. But though at his first arrival he wasreally purposed to present the petition to the king,but when he found the king in such a rage againstthe godly ministers, that he durst not at that timepresent it, so he thought fit to delay it, and there-,after fully forgot it.The first time that Mr. Welch saw his face afterhis return from court, he asked him what he haddone with his petition. My lord answered he, hadpresented it to the king, but that the king was inso great a rage against the ministers at that time,he believed it had been forgotten, for he bad gottenno answer. Nay said Mr. Welch to him, My lordyon should not lye to God, and to me, for 1 knowyou never delivered it, though I warned you totake heed not to undertake it, except you wouldperform it; but because you have dealt so unfaith¬fully, remember God shall take from you bothestate and honours, and give them to your neigh¬bour in your own time: which accordingly came topass, both his estate and honours were in his owntime transmitted to James Stewart son to captainibJames, •who was indeed a cadet, but not the linealheir of the family.While he was detained prisoner in Edinburghcastle, his wife used for the most part to stay inhis company, but upon a time fell into a longingto see her family in Ayr, to which with somedifficulty he yielded ; but when she was to take herjourney, he strictly charged her not to take theordinary way to her own house, when she came toAyr, nor to pass by the bridge through the town, butto pass the river above the bridge, and so get theway to her own house, and not to come into thetown, for, said he, before you come thither, youshall find the plague broken out in Ayr, whichaccordingly came to pass.The plague was at that time very terrible, andhe being necessarily separate from his people, itwas to him the more grievous; but when thepeople of Ayr came to him to bemoan themselves,his answer was, that Hugh Kennedy, a godlygentleman in their town, should pray for them, andGod should hear him. This counsel they accepted,and the gentleman convening a number of thehonest citizens, prayed fervently for the town, ashe was a mighty wrestler with God, and accord¬ingly after that the plague decreased.Now the time is come he must leave Scotland,and never to see it again, so upon the seventh ofNovember 160G in the morning, he with hisneighbours took ship at Leith, and though it wasbut two o’clock in the morning, many were waitingon with their afflicted families, to bid them farewellAfter prayer, they sung the xxiii psalm, and soset sail for the south of France, and landed inthe river of Bourdeaux. Within fourteen weeksafter his arrival, such was the Lord’s blessing17upon his diligence, he was able to preach inFrench, and accordingly was speedily called tothe ministry, first in one village, then in another ;one of them was Nerac, and thereafter settled insaint Jean d’ Angely, a considerable walled town,and there he continued the rest of the time he so¬journed in France, which was about sixteen years.When he began to preach, it was observed by someof his hearers, that while he continued in thedoctrinal part of his sermon, he spoke very correctFrench, but when he came to his application andwhen his affections kindled, his fervour made himsometimes neglect the accuracy of the Frenchconstruction : but there were godly young men whoadmonished him of this, which he took in very goodpart, so for preventing mistakes of that kind, hedesired the young gentlemen, when they perceivedhim beginning to decline, to give him a sign, andthe sign was, that they were both to stand up upontheir feet, and thereafter he was more exact in hisexpression through his whole sermon ; so desirouswas he, not only to deliver good matter, but torecommend it in the neat expression.There were many times persons of great qualityin his auditory, before whom he was just as boldas ever he had been in a Scots village ; whichmoved Mr. Boyd of Trochrig once to ask him,(after he had preached before the university ofSamure with such boldness and authority, as if hehad been before the meanest congregation) how hecould be so confident among strangers, and personsof such quality! to which he answered, That hewas so filled with the dread of God, he had noapprehension from man at all; and this answer,said Mr. Boyd, did not remove my admiration, butrather increased it18There was in his house amongst ihanv others,who tabled with him for good education, a younggentleman of groat quality, and suitable expecta¬tions, and this was the heir of the lord Ochiltry,who was captain of the castle of Edinburgh. Thisyoung nobleman, after he had gained very muchupon Mr. Welch’s affections, fell sick of a grievoussickness, and after he had been long wasted withit, closed his eyes, and expired as dying men usedto do, so to the apprehension and sense of all spec¬tators, he was no more but a carcaso( and wastherefore taken out of his bed, and laid upon apailat on the floor, that his body might be the moreconveniently dressed, as dead bodies used to bo.This was to Mr. Welch a very great grief, andtherefore he stayed with the young man’s deadbody full three hours, lamenting over him withgreat tenderness. After twelve hours, the friendsbrought in a coffin, whereuuto they desired thecorps to bo put, as the custom is: but Mr. Welchdesired, that for tho satisfaction of his affections,they would forbear tho youth for a time, whichthey granted, and returned not till twenty fourhours, after his death, were expired; then theyreturned, with great importunity the corps mightbo coffined* that it might be speedily buried, the , 1weather being- extremely hot; yet he persisted in his 1 ;request, earnestly begging them to excuse him for ■once more ; so they left tho youth upon his pailat 'for full thirty six hours: but even after all that, 'though he was urged, not only with great earnest- 1ness, but displeasure, they were constrained to forbear ’for twelve hours yet more ; and after forty eight thours were past, Mr. Welch was still where he was,and then his friends perceived that he believed the tyoung man was not really dead) but under some !•apoplectic fit, and therefore proponed to him furhis satisfaction, that trial should be made upon hisbody by doctors and chirurgeons, if possibly anyi spark of life might be found in hirn, and with thisI he was content: so the physicians are set on Work,I who pinched him with pincers in the fleshy partsI of his body, and twisted a bow string about hishead with great force, but no sign of life appearingj in him, sb the physicians pronounced him starkI1) dead, and then there was no more delay to bel desired ; yet Mr. Welch begged of them once more,i that they would but step into the next room for ani’ our or two, and leave him with the dead youth,nd this they granted : Then Mr. Welch fell downefore the pallat, and cried to the Lord with allis might, for the last time and sometimes lookedpon the dead body, continuing in wrestling withlie Lord till at length the dead youth opened hisyes, and cried out to Mr. Welch whom he distinctlyHew, 0 Sir, I am all whole, hut my head and legs :ud these were the places they had sore hurt, withlieir pinching.When Mr. Welch perceived this, he called uponis friends, and shewed them the dead young maneStored to life again, to their great astonishment,md this young nobleman, though be lost the estatef Odiiltry, lived to acquire a great estate inreland, and was lord CJastlestewart, and a man oficb excellent parts, that be was courted by the carl' Stafford to be a counsellor in Ireland, which hedused to be, and then he engaged, and continuedfir all his life, not only in honour and power, hutH; the profession and practice of godliness, to the|reat coriifort of the country where he lived. ThisJ(ory the nobleman communicated to his friends in■elatld. and from them I had it.20While Mr. Welch was minister in one of theseFrench villages, upon an evening a certain popishfriar travelling through the country, because hecould not find lodging in the whole village, addressedhimself to Mr. Welch’s house for one night. Theservants acquainted their master and he was con¬tent to receive this guest. The family had suppedbefore he came, and so the servants convoyed thefriar to his chamber, and after they had made hissupper, they left him to his rest. There was buta timber partition betwixt him and Mr. Welch,,and after the friar had slept his first sleep, he wassurprized with the hearing of a silent, but constantwhispering noise, at which he wondered very muchand Avas not a little troubled with it.The next morning he walked in the fields, wherehe chanced to meet Avith a country man, Avhcsaluting him because of his habit, asked him Avherhe lodged that night ? The friar answered he hatlodged Avith the hugenot minister. Then tincountry man asked him Avhat entertainment hhad? The friar answered. Very bad; for, said heI always held there Avcre devils haunting thesministers houses, and I am persuaded there Avaone with me this night, for I heard a continu;whisper all the night over, which I believe A\rasother thing, than the minister and the devil corversing together. The country man told him, he wtmuch mistaken, and that it was nothing else,the minister at his night prayer. 0, said the friadoes the minister pray any ? Yes, more than arman in France, ansAvered the country man, andyou please to stay another night with him you iuebe satisfied. The friar got home to Mr. Welcthouse, and pretending indisposition, entreat*another night’s lodging, which was granted him,Before dinner, Mr. Welch came from his cham¬ber, and made his family exercise, according tohis custom. And first he sung a psalm, then reada portion of scripture, and discoursed upon it,thereafter he prayed with great fervour, as his cus¬tom was, to all which the friar was an astonishedwitness. After the exercise they went to dinner,where the friar was very civilly entertained, Mr.Welch forbearing all questions and dispute withhim for the time ; when the evening came, Mr.Welch made his exercise as he had done in themorning, which occasioned yet more wondering inthe friar, and after supper to bed they all went;but the friar longed much to know what the nightwhisper was, and in that he was soon satisfied, forafter Mr. Welch’s first sleep, the noise began, andthen the friar resolved to be sure what it was, sohe crept silently to Mr. Welch’s chamber-door, andthere he heard not only the sound, but the wordsdistinctly, and communications betwixt man andGod, and such as he knew not had been in theworld. Upon the next morning, as soon as Mr.Welch was ready, the friar went to him, and toldhim, that he had been bred in ignorance, and livedin darkness all his time, but now he was resolved toadventure his soul with Mr. Welch, and thereupondeclared himself Protestant: Mr. Welch welcomedhim and encouraged him, and he continued a con¬stant protestant to his dying day. This story Ihad from a godly minister, who was bred in Mr.Welch’s house, when in France.When Lewis XIII. king of France, made warupon the Protestants there, because of their re¬ligion, the city of St. Jean d’ Angely, was by himand his royal army besieged, and brought intoextreme danger, Mr Welch was minister in the*>2town, and mightily encouraged the citizens to holdout, assuring them, God should deliver them. Inthe time of the siege a cannon hall pierced thebed where ho was lying, upon which he got up, butWould not leave the room, till ho had by solemnprayer acknowledged his deliverance. During thesiege, the townsmen made stout defence, untilone Of the king’s gunners planted a great gun soconveniently upon a rising ground, that therewithhe could Command the whole wall, upon which thetownsmen made their greatest defence. Upon thisthey were constrained to forsake the whole wall ingreat terror, and though they had several gunsplanted upon the wall, no man durst undertake tomanage them. This being told Mr. Welch withgreat affrlghtment, he notwithstanding encouragedthem still to hold out, and running to the wallhimself, found the cannonier, who was a Burgun¬dian, near the wall, him he entreated to mount the!wall, promising to assist him in person, so to the;Avail they got. The cannonier told Mr. Welch,that either they behoved to dismount the gun uponthe rising ground, or else they were surely lost;Mr. Welch desired him to aim well, and he shouldservo him, and God Would help him; so the gun¬ner falls a scouring his piece, and Mr. Welch runsto the powder to fetch him a charge : hut as soonas he was returning, the king's gunner fired hispiece, which carried both the powder and ladle outof Mr. Welch’s hands, which yet did not discour¬age him, for having left the ladle, he filled his hat\Vith powder, wherewith the gunner loaded hispiece, and dismounted the king’s gun at the firstshot, So the citizens returned to their post of defence.This discouraged the king so, that he sent to thecitizens to offer them fair conditions, which were.That they should enjoy the liberty of their religion,their civil privileges, and their walls should not bedemolished : only the king desired for his honoursthat he might enter the city with his servants in afriendly manner. This the city thought lit togrant, and the king with a few more entered thecity for a short time.But within a short time thereafter the war Wasrenewed, and then Mr. Welch told the inhabitantsof the city, that now their cup was full, and theyshould no more escape ; which accordingly camoto pass, for the king took the town, and as soon asever it fell into his hand, he commanded Vitry,the captain of his guard, to enter the town, andpreserve his minister from all danger ; and thenwefe horses and waggons provided for Mr. Welch,to remove him and his family for Rochel, wherehe remained till ho obtained liberty to comohis friends made hard Suit,permitted to return to Scot-physicians declared there waspreserve his life, hut by thehave in his native air. Butwould never yield, protest-lie should never he able to establish hisbeloved bishops in Scotland, if Mr. Welch werepermitted to return thither ; so he languished atLondon a considerable time, his disease was judgedby some to have a tendency to a sort of leprosy ;physicians say he had been poisoned ; a langour hehad, together with a great weakness in his knees,caused by his continual kneeling at prayer : byw hich it came to pass, that though he was able tomove his knees, and to walk, yet ho wTas whollyinsensible in them, and the flesh became hard likea sort of horn. But when in the time of his weak-to England, andtiiat he might beland ; because theno other way tofreedom he mightto this king Jamesshould24ness, he was desired to remit somewhat of his ex¬cessive painfulness, his answer was, He had his lifeof God, and therefore it should be spent for him.His friends importuned king James very much,that if ho might not return to Scotland, at least liemight have liberty to preach at London, whichking James would never grant, till he heard allhopes of life were past, and then he allowed himliberty to preach, not fearing his activity.Then as soon as ever he heard he might preach,he greedily embraced this liberty, and having accessto a lecturer’s pulpit, he went and preached bothlong and fervently : which was the last performanceof his life ; for after he had ended his sermon, hereturned to his chamber, and within two hoursquietly and without pain, he resigned his spiritinto his Maker’s hands, and was buried near Mr.Deering, the famous English divine, after he hadlived little more than fifty-two years.FINIS