cheap tracts,'jJ Calculated to promote the Interests of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. IX.? ■ 11 ■ 1 1 "" *" 1 -■=*-THEDRUNKENHusband:| OR,The fatal effe&s of Drunkennefs,Illuftrated, in the Bad Life and Premature Death ofTIMOTHY SPARKS.To which is added,THEMAGNANIMOUSTrue greatnefs of Mind difplayed.In the conduct of Captain Wilfon and Crew when Ship¬wrecked in the Antelope East-India Packet, upon anIsland in the Pacific Ocean : in which, is depicted thehappy result of Sobriety and Submifsion to the dictatesof reason.* DUNBAR:minted by G. Miller :—at whofe Shop may be had a variety efPamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pidures, Catechifros,5it’WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,THEDRUNKEN HUSBAND.Tfo Drunkard vioftes bis Wealth and Health,As on his course he goes :When fell difeafe doth on him feizeHe’s poor amidd his wees.Ohfly the bait, then, ere too late.Ere with intemp’ranee caught,Or it will be your dirtful fate2o drink a bitter draught.MRS. Andrews one day afked the wifeof Timothy Sparks whether her huf-band wa$ addidted to drinking when fhemarried him ? The woman replied, that hewas not; but fhe imputed his firft taking tothis vice to a man who at that time wasliving in the neighbourhood, and had beenthe ruin of many young fellows befides. This,man, whofe nam'r was Thomas Briggs, wasa jolly fellow, could play at all kinds ofgames, fing a good fong, and drink a fur-prifing quantity of liquor without being in¬toxicated. He had the art of entertainingothers fo highly, that for the fake of the di-verfion he gave them, they were glad to pay'his reckoning ; and he was continually con¬triving fchemes to draw men from their fa¬milies, and tempt them to drink. Mrs Sparksadded, that for a year and a half fhe livedC 3 )very comfortably with her hufband, as he(ill was fober, and loved home, but then ihewas brought to-bed of her firfi: child, andhaving an offer to be wet-nurfe in a family,who refided in that village during the lum-mer ffiafon, flie was tempted, for the fake ofli|the great wages which were proffered, to put:richer own child out, leave her husband, andgo to town for the winter ; but (lie had rea-i'on enough to repent it, for her own poorlittle dear died, and her hufband, having nocompanion at home, was drawn away byTom Briggs, learnt of him to drink, and had,from that time, no pleafure any where butin analehoufe. She added, that foe had talk-ked to him enough about it, fo Ihe had noblame to lay to her own charge.Perhaps, faid the lady, you have talked tohim too much. It is a very impolitic thing,and indeed a very improper one, for a wo¬man to take upon her to reclaim her hus¬band from any fault by fcolding or teazing.The only likely way to fucceed is by good-humour and gentleneff few men will bearto be reprimanded by thofe whom they thinkthey have a right to govern: however, Mary,faid the lady, it is too late to talk to you ofwhat you ought to have done lo many yearsago; but pray tell me what meafures you pur-lue with your hufband now. She replied,that Pne let him goon inhis own way, for Ihemight as well drive a mule as drive him*( 4 )She added, that it was a rare thing indeedto fee him fober ; for, not contented withgorging beer, he had of late grown very fondof drams; but fhe fancied that he would loonhave drank up his drink, for he had a pow¬er of complaints of late.Mrs. Andrews was (hocked at hearing awife talk in this unfeeling manner of herhufband, and gently reproved Mary Sparksfor doing fo; who replied. Ah ! Madam,you do not know what a trial it is to have afottilh hufband. It is very true, that X donot know it by experience, anlwered the lady,but this I know, Mary, that no women ought10 wi(h for her husband’s death, as your ex-preffion implies that you do, let me entreatof you to perform your duty by him, whetherhe does his by you or not; confider howtender and folemn the tie is that binds youtogether. You have vowed, in the prefenceof Goo, to love and to cherifh your hufband,now is your time to fhow that you do fo, ifhis health is declining. Take care to haveno caufe to reproach yourfelf when he is deadfor having negledted him. Mary promiledthat ihe would do all in her power for him,and the lady left her to purlue her work;but could not help feeling a.great deal of con¬cern at the thoughts of a poor wretch, who,according to his wife’s account, was in dan¬ger of putting a fpeedy end to his own life,and who was lo ill prepared for the next world.( 5 )As foon as Hie faw Mr. Andrews, fiie toldhim of the difcourfe that had pafled betweenher and the woman, and begged he wouldendeavour to bring Timothy to a fenfe ofhis wickednefs, that he might repent of itbefore he died. Mr Andrews prornifed todo what he could, and fent for Timothy thenext day, but he was drunk at the alehoufe,and not capable of attending him, and thiswas the cafe repeatedly till Sunday came, and,and then he was fober, only becaufe thelandlord would fell him no liquor, nor hiswife give him any, on which, finding him-felf not able to walk about much, he fatdown fulky in the chimney corner, while hiswife went to church.Mr. Andrews accidentally called in, andbeing very defirous of reclaiming a poor fel¬low creature from vice and perdition, fathimfelf down, and having inquired into thereafon of Timothy’s flaying at home ? wastold by him that he was too ill to go to church.1 amforry tohearthis, replied thegentleman,indeed I am furprizcd to hear it, after theaccount I have had of you in the courfc ofthe week ! Surely, if you were well enoughto go fo the alehoufe, you might be wtfllenough to go to church ; but I fear youwant the inclination. I am truely concern¬ed, faid the good gentleman, at finding youin fuch a condition of body and mind. Iheartily wifh I could be of fervice to either.As for your body, I am fully convinced that4( 6 )its prefent indifpofition is the confeqnenceof the excefles you hive been guilty of; &} am confident, that if you do not immedi¬ately quit the way you have long been pur-fuing, you will foon bring yourfelf to th&grave. Have you read, laid the gentleman,the book concerning dram-drinking, which1 fome time ago difperfed in the neighbour¬hood ? Timothy owned that he had not.What is become of it ? faid Mr. Andrews,to which the other replied that he did notJtnow. Obferving a parcel of books lying *on a Ihelf, Mr. Andrews looked among themand found it, and begged of Timothy totake the opportunity of reading it in his fo-ber moments. You do not confider, faidthe gentleman, what injury you do to your¬felf by the (hocking cuftom you give way to;and how ridiculous you are become by it !I am fare when I faw you fometime ago atthe George, you had neither the fpeech, thecarriage, nor the civility of a man ; nay, |you had funk yourfelf below a brute ; forbrutes are what God made them, but adrunken man is more contemptible thanany beaft. He is no longer fit for humanconverlation, but is a nuifance and fliftur-bance to all about him, the grief of his fa¬mily and friends, and the laughter of others: jand the beft that can be done for him, is tolav him lomewhere out of the way, till timeand deep have recovered his fenfes, and( 7 ^then, how muft his conkicnce reproach himfor the folly and fin he has been guilty offbefides faid the gentleman, the very boyr.in the flreet make their fport of him, whileall whofe friendlhip is worth having areafhamed to own him for an acquaintance ;but above all, think how a drunken mancuts himfelf off from God, and makes him-felf unfit for the fociety of chriftians. Heis likewife continually expofed to broils andquarrels, in danger of fatal accidents, liableto be impofed on, and unfit for every em¬ployment in life. Drunkennefs, continuedthe gentleman, is a very wafleful vice for itcaufes a man to negled: his bufinefs. diftrefshimfelf, and flarvs, or, at ieaft, injure hisfamily : but I have not yet faid the worftof drunkennefs, for it deprives men of thegrace of God, and unfits them for every re¬ligious a&ion ; while a man is under its in¬fluence he is not capable of one feriousthought, and is continually in danger ofbeing cur off for his wickednefs; nay more,of being punifhed to all eternity.Timothy had fo ftupified his mind byperpetual intoxication, that he could notclearly comprehend what Mr. Andrews faidto him, and replied, that he was no more ofa brute than other men ; and he was forryhis worihip thought he did not know howto take care of himfeif.. ( 8 )The good gentleman plainly perceivedthat he was fpending his breath in vain,however, before he left the houfe, he againadmonilhed Timothy to leave off the dread¬ful habit he had been fo long addicted to, &take to a fober courfe of life before it was toolate, and promifed to be a good friend tohim if he found he followed his advice.Timothy promifed that he would ; but Iam forry to fay, that inftead of doing fo heabufed his wife for making complaints ofhim, as he fuppofed ; this provoked her toreproach him; a quarrel enfued, and thenext morning he returned to his old poftat the George, where he got exceedingly-drunk indeed, and infulted one of his neigh¬bours fo grofsly, that he employed a con-flable to carry him before Mr. Andrews,who was a juflice of the peace, Mr. Andrews 'thought him a very proper perfon to makean example of, therefore ordered him to beput in the flocks, where he fat for fomehours expoled to the derifion of the whole•village. He was not able, however, to keepon long in his nfual courfe, his health de¬clined vifibly every day, and at laft he hadnot flrength to get from home.His wife continued working occafionallyat the ’fquire’s, and Mrs. Andrews had givenorders to her houlekteper that nounlhingdiet fhould he made forMai^ to carry-hometo her hufband ; but fhe ana Mr. Andrews( 9 >went to London for thr^e months, duringwhich time the vicar of the parifh, who wasan excellent good man, vifited the poorwretch, and, by his pious difcourfe, brought:him at laft to a fenfe of his fin.When Mr. and Mrs. Andrews returnedhome they took the earlied opportunity o£of vifiting their poor neighbours, & amongthe reft Timothy Sparks, of whofe danger¬ous fituation they had been apprized bytheir fervants. They found him fitting bythe fire, to all appearance in the laft ftageof a confumption.' On a table, which floodby him, lay a Bible. Recollefting hisbreach of promife, Timothy felt fuch emo¬tion at the ’fiquire’s entrance as broughton a violent fit of coughing. As foon as itwas over Mrs. Andrews inquired for hiswife and children ? Timothy replied, thathis wife was gone out to wafning, his eldeft:boy to live at a tavern, and tifft youngefthe had juft fent out on an errand. Mr.Andrews kindly faid, that he was very forryto find him fo poorly, but from the fight ofthe Bible opened before him he hoped, thatthough his body was weaker, his mind wasin a better ftate than when he faw him thelaft time. The poor creature, with tears in hiseyes, replied, that he humbly hoped it was,for the good vicar had convinced him ofhis fin, and had encouraged him to pray fordivine grace, & to hope for pardon through the( 1° )merits of his bleffed Redeemer, and he trufl:-ed God would gracioufly forgive him, forhis Saviour’s fake ; but he would now givethe world, if he had it at his command, thathe had paffed his days in a better manner.He faid it was dreadful to refleft on the illofe he had made of his time, and of all the1blefiings which it had plealed God to granthim ; for he had once a ftrong conftitutiori,and might have maintained his family verycreditably, if he had not taken to bad cour-fes, as he was by trade a bricklayer, & couldhave nad almoft conftant work. He added,that he was particularly grieved to think,how he had neglefted the Sabbath, and thathe was’fure he had but a (hort time to live;and when he looked forward to the greatday of judgment, he could not help feelinga vafl deal of lhame and appreheniion : onthefe occafions he either read himfelf, if he,was able. Or made his little boy read the 2Scriptures to him, and always found fome-thing to comfort him there; but ftill, hefaid, he could not be fo happy and comfort¬able as thofe who had a well-fpent life toreflect cn.' Mr. and Mrs. Andrews were exceedinglypleafed at hearing Timothy talk in fo pro¬per a way, and exprefling their fatisfadionat his repentance, took their leave, left theyihould latigue him, but called upon himagain, and continued to do fo from time toi:IKeI( n )time, as did tue good vicar, for the fhortremainder of his days. His wife, who wasreally a worthy women, was very tender ofhim, and worked exceedingly hard to main¬tain him, and through the charitable affift-ance (Ire met with at the ’{quire's, (he wasenabled to lupport him decently to the laft,and had great comfort in feeing him fo fin-cere a penitent. Many a time did he la¬ment that he had been fuch a bad hufbandand father, and when he found himlelf dy¬ing he called his family about him, and en¬treated them to take warning by his fate,and not cut their days Ihort by drunkerinefsas he had done ; he alio warned them notto go on finning with a defign of taking upat the latter end of their days ; for though.' he had been fo happy as to be brought to afenfe of his crimes, it might not be the cafewith them'’; and if it even Ihould, theymight believe his words, that the better peo¬ple had lived the happier they would be atthe hour of death, for the greater would betheir hopes; he then defired the vicarmight be fent for immediately, who came,and while he was faying the recommen¬datory prayer Timothy Sparks breathed hislaft.As foon as Mrs Andrews heard that hewas departed fhe went to fee his widow,whom flie found very decently and proper¬ly affedted. She lamented that her hufband- ( 12 )was taken from her, as his reformation gaveher reafon to think they might have palfedtheir old age happily together, but at thefame time (lie was refigned to his lots, as (lietrufted, that on account of his penitence hewould, through the merits of his Saviour,find admittance into a better place. SheexprefTel great fatisfa&ion in the refledion,that (he had done all in her power for himin his lad illnefs, and only regretted that Ihehad not borne his faults with more patienceformerly ; (lie (aid, it certainly was a very |great trial to a woman, after a hard day’swork, to fee a hufband fo drunk that hecould neither (land nor (peak, nay, perhapslick, and obliged to be carried to-bed, orfo crofs that there was no (peaking to him;but that v/hen (lie looked back upon thetime that was pafled, (lie was convinced,that (lie often made things worfe by her ownwant of patience, for (lie was too apx to giveway to reproaches; and (lie heartily widiedfhe had obferved a more gentle and indul- >gent condudt to him in the beginning, and ‘perhaps it might have prevented his grow¬ing fo bad, for (lie could very well recolledtthat he'conftanrly fought Thomas Briggs’scompany when (lie had Icolded him for get¬ting drunk.Mrs. Andrews (aid, that it was now toolate to call back the pad. To be lure, onall oegafions, gentlenefs and mildnefs were( )becoming in wives towards their hufbands,and were the mod likely means to gain ontheir affeftions; but whatever caufe Maryhad to condemn herfelf, (lie had ftill moreto blefs God for enabling her to lee her er¬ror, and for giving her a proper fenfe of herduty, and an opportunity of fhowing her loveto her hufband before he was taken fromher. The lady added, that fhe might judgefrom what fhe now felt in her mind, thather refie&ions would have been very bitterindeed, if fhe had continued her rancour tohim while he lay upon his death bed ; butnow fhe had reafon to rejoice that fhe hadmade him every amends in her power, andmight look forward, with well-groundedhope, that they fhould pafs a happy eterni-'ty together. Mrs. Andrews faid, that fhevery weli recolle&ed a woman who had ahufband that was in the main a good one,and a very induftrious man, but fometimeshe would fly out of bounds, get drunk, andreturn home very riotous, on which occa-fions he was fure to be well leftured by hiswife. At firft he bore this with tolerablepatience, and would fay, Do not be foolifh,Jenny; I hav* my faults and you haveyours, let us give and take ; but fhe madeno allowance for his failings, and at lengthher repeated remonftrances made his ownhoule quite irkfome to him, and he foughtrefuge in company when his inclinationwould have led him to flay at home.( i4 )As they had no children his wife, whenhe thus ablented himfelf, ufed to go amongher neighbours, and make his irregularitiesthe conftant theme of her difcourfe, andvery often was wicked enough to wilh himdead. Onetime in particular, after a quarrelthey had had, he was miffing, and no tidingscould (he hear of him, fo flie went her ufualgoffipping round, talking of him as the moftprofligate hufband that ever poor womanwas plagued with, and wifhing all mannerof mifehief, to befal him. In the midft ofher complaining, news was brought thatJofeph Randail (which was his name) wastaken out of the river, drowned ; havingaccidentally walked in, not being foberenough to keep the proper road. In an in-flant her reproaches were exchanged for thebittereft lamentations; {he w'rting her hands,fhe tore her hair, {he accufed herfelf as thecaufe of all the mifery* which now affliftedher. Confcience immediately ftuck a thou-fand daggers in her heart—She ran like adiftradted creature to her own houfe—Shethrew herfelf on the lifelefs body of her huf¬band, which die bathed with tears—Shecalled to mind many inflances of his tender-nefs to her, and of her ingratitude to him.The lafl: quarrel in particular wounded herto the bottom ©f her foul.—She looked uponherfelf as the author of his death. Therewas no pacifying her; the violence of her( )I grief threw her into a fever, from which with: difficulty (he recovered, but never forgaveii herfelf for the part (lie had afted. How,- i happy are you, Mary Sparks, faid the lady,:i in com pari (on of the woman I have beeni deferibing.I am indeed, Madam replied, the widow;and I am very thankful that the wifhesH which I own my fretfulnefs has cauiedt me fometimes to utter in refpeft to poor111 Timothy, never came to pafs; and I can|j truely fay l long ago repented of them; and1 fince you and my mafter, apd the good vicarI were fo kind as to talk to me, and I haveJ| gone to church and read my Bible I have| had a deal more patience; l haveconfideredI that no one is without their troubles,!! and inftead of fcolding at my hufband, I! ufed to pray God to turn his heart, andI latterly have thanked the Almighty fincerelyjl for doing (o.All this wasvery right, faid Mrs. Andrews,I and I am heartily glad to hear it. YouI have nothing to do now but to reconcileyourfelf to the death of your hufband, tolive a good life, prepare for your own latterend, and enjoy, with gratitude, the bleflingswhich God has left you.Mary followed the lady’s advice, andpafl'ed the remainder of her days very com¬fortably ; for her children were dutiful andfober, and affifled her greatly in old age.MAGNANIMOUS ENGLISHMEN.■IE Antelope packet was fitted out bythe Court of Directors of the Eafi: IndiaCompany, and fet fail in the fummcr oftheyear 1782, under the command of captainWilfon ; but before he arrived at the placeof his defiination, he had the misfortune tobe fhipwrecked in an unknown part of thePacific Ocean. Captain Wilfon’s firft orders^ were to lecure the gunpowder and fmallarms, and to get on deck the bread, and fuchother provifions as were liable ro be fpoiled,'and to cover them with tarpaulings, &c. topreferve them from the wet, and in fhort, todo every thing that prudence could fuggeftin fo trying and diftrefsful a fituation.The boats- being hoifted out, and filledwith provifions, a compafs, and fome fmallarms, with ammunition, and two men wereput into each with directions to keep them-ielves in readinefs to receive their fhipmates,, in cafe the vefiel (hould part by the violenceTHEIVbm winery clouds obfcure the fkytAnd heaven and earth deform *If fix'd the Jlrong foundations He,The cajlle braves the form-"j of the wind and waves, as it then blew an^exceeding ftrong gale. The officers andf people afi'embled on the quarter deck, and: (waited for day-light, in hopes of feeing land,qfor as yet they had not been able to diicemmany.During this dreadful interval the anxiety: ,and horror of which is much eafier to bei imagined than deferibed. Captain Wilfonliendeavoured to revive the drooping fpirits ofhis crew, by reminding them, that (bip-/wreck was a misfortune to which navigators.jljiwere always liable, and that although theirsviwas rendered particularly diftreffing by itsIj! happening in an unknown and unfrequentedJfea, yet he wifhed to remind them, thatf. this confideration fhould only roufe them toI greater adlivity in endeavouring to extri-15 cate themfelves; and above all, he begged!ii leave to imprefs upon their minds this cir-.p cumftance, that whenever misfortunes, fuch^ as rheirs had happened, they had generally(tl been rendered more dreadful than they wouldp otherwife have been, by the defpair of theI crew, and by their difagreements amongthemfelves; to prevent which, he moft ear-neftly requeded each of them feparately notI to tafte any fpimuous liquors on any account| whatever; and he had the fatisfadion toI find a ready conlent to this mod important|l advice.( i3 )The writer of this narrative tells Os, thathe was particularly circumftantial in his ac¬count of this part of their tranfaftion, becaufehe thinks it difplayes in a mod remarkablemanner, the prcfcnce of mind which waspreferved, and the prudence that was ex¬erted by Captain Wilfon, in one of the modtrying fituations to which human nature canbe expofed. It (hows alfo ther temper anddifpofnion of his officers and his whole crew,and pronounces their prailes with ten thou-land times more force than any other wordsthat could be ufed.The dawn difcovered to their view a fmallifland, at the diftance of about four leagues tothe fouthward, and as the day-light increafedthey faw more iflands to the wedward.They now began to feel great apprehen-fion on account of the natives, to whofedifpofitions they were perfed drangers; how-^ever, after their boats were manned, andloaded in the bed manner for the generalgood, they were difpatched to thefmall ifland.under the direction of Mr. Benger, the chiefmate, who w7as requeded toeftabhth, if pof-fible, a friendly intercourle with the natives,if they found any, and carefully to avoidany quarrels with them.In the afternoon the boats returned to thefhip with the pleafing news that they hadlanded the dores iri fafety, and led five mento take care of them; that there was no( i9 ’ )i! appearance of inhabitants where they land-. ed ; that they had found a fecure harbour,well fheltered f.om the weather, and alfo:: fome frefh water. /This good account revived every one, fothat theypurfued their labour in completingi) and loading a raft they were making ; and|they alfo loaded their boats again with fuch!! ftores as were mod likely to differ from thefpray of the lea. Captain. Wilfon orderedall the people into the boats, with which,and the raft, they led their old habitationwith heavy hearts.After a toilfomc paffage, they all landedfafeon'the ifland, but paffed an anxiousii night, as the people who were left in the8 morning had obferved certain figns of humaninhabitants having been lately there ; it was! therefore abfolutely neceffary that theyIhould keep a conftant watch.The next day the boats were fent againI to the wreck, when it was bifcovered thatthe Hi ip was lo damaged, that there was littlehope of its remaining together till the nextday, as (he began already to part. A gloomnow overfpread every countenance, andi every one feemed to think himlelf cut offfor ever from the world, and all they heldmod dear. They could not help recollec¬ting that' they were ftrangers to the man¬ner and difpofitions of the inhabitants of theidandon which misfortune had thrown them;( 20 )and they turned about in their minds thehoftile fcenes which they might poflibly thave to encounter. Thefe reflexions did l'not contribute to the comfort ot the night,which turned out more tempeftuous thanthe former.About eight o’clock in the morning, whenall were bufily employed in drying theirproviflons, clearing the ground, &c. theyfaw two canoes with men in them advancingtowards them. This gave a general alarm,and all the people ran to their arms; CaptainWilfon defired them to keep out of fightuntil they perceived what reception he metwith, but to be prepared for the worft.They foon perceived that the natives haddifcovered the Captain, and a Malay, withwhom he was converfing, and kept theireyes fixed on that part of the fhore wherethey flood.The natives advanced very cautiouflytowards them, and when they came nearenough to be heard, the Captain defired theMalay to fpeakto them in his own language,which at firft they 'did not underftand butthey flopped their canoes, and foon afterone of them afked in the Malay tongue,whether they were friends or enemies? I heMalay was directed to reply, that they wereEnglifhmen, who had loft their flop on thereef, but had laved their lives, and weretriends. On this they feemed to confer to-(21Mjgether for a fhort time, and then went towardsjthe iliore. Captain Wilfon immediatelywaded into the water to meet them, andembracing them in the mod friendly man-iner, led them to the fhore, and prefentedthem to his officers and unfortunate com¬panions. They were eight in number, twolof whom were afterwards known to be bro¬thers to the Rupack, or king, of the neigh¬bouring iflands, and one was "a Malay, whohad been Ihipwrecked in a veflel belongingto a Chinefe, and had been kindly treatedby the king, who he faid was a good man,and the people alfo were courteous.This was very'reviving news to the poorfufferers, and the truth of it was confirmedby the fubfequent behaviour of the natives,who difplayed the utmoft holpitality andgood will towards them, and they grewevery day more familiar with each other.Captain Wilfon, willing to maintain this goodunderftanding, made a propofition to hisofficers, which (as the author of the narrativeobferves) for boldnefs and wildom couldonly be equalled by the unanimity andcheerfulnefs dilplayed by the crew in ac¬cording with it.Every one who knows any thing of Tea¬men, knows (continued the gentleman) thatGrog is the folace and joy of their lives ;that it foftens all their hardlhips, and caufeseven the horrors of war to pafs by them un-( 22 )felt, that there is no undertaking fo danger¬ous, or fo defperate, which they will notmod. readily attempt for the fake of it, norfcarcely a comfort in life which they will not*give up to obtain it. Captain Wilfon find-:ing them rather noify one day when they-came from the wreck, owing to a little li-jquor which the officer then on board hadgiven them, and which coming after longtoil, and upon an empty ftomach, had affec¬ted them, rather than the, quantity theydrank, it alarmed him fo much, that hefubmitted to his officers the propriety offlaving (with the confent of his people)every cafk of liquour which was in the fhip.He knew*, lays the author, that it was toobold a ftep to be taken without their con-currrence, but he trufted to the regard theyhad for him, and the influence he had overthem, and he intended to let the peoplethemfelves execute his purpofe; he had thefatisfadlion to find that his officers immedi¬ately approved of his projedt; and the nextmorning he called his men together, andtold them he had fomething to propose onwhich their future welfare., nay probably,,their lives depended. He then fubmittcd|to their judgement the meafare on which he:and his officers had talked the evening be¬fore, urged the propriety of it in the moft -forcible terms, as a ftep that would give !them the beft grounded hopes of deliverance( *3 )Yom their prefent lunation, and of feeingonce more their native country, and thole-vho were dear to them in it ; and he added,i hat however .loth every one of them mightoe to yield up his darling liquor, yet heJkffured himfelf their own underftandingwould tell them it was a right and necef-J!ary meafure. The moment he concluded,I ill the Tailors, to their lading honour, repli-f.ed, that however they might fuffer from thewant of fpints, they were 'fenfible that theaving easy accefs to them might tempthern to drink without discretion, and theyot only agreed willingly to the Captain’sroposal, but were ready to go direftly tohe fhip and Have every c?Ik of liquor on[board ; this they mod truly performed, andin fo scrupulous a manner did they executehat trud, that there was not a dngle man|o£ them who would take even a farewell glassof his beloved cordial.—What do you thinkofthis account, gentlemen and ladies? Think,why my good friend, 1 think that CaptainWilfon is a prince of heroes, and his men afet of noble fellows. They make me feelproud of being an Englidrman.—I hope theexperiment anfwered Pcrfeftly well, theydaid long enough on the ifland to build avcffel, and when they went away, left theking and people in tears for their departure.Happy would it be, if failors in general,had the fame command of themfelves in re-( 24 )sped to liquor, many a valuable life would11be faved. It is particularly necelTary, irvjtimes of Ihipwreck, that they fhnuld keep'jitheir heads clear, and their reafon awake j|for though they are at their wits end, andhave none to depend on 'but Providence,!who does not deliver by miracles, but by ijnatural means, it is more likely that he wiillluggeft expedients to thofe who keep them- jfelves fober, and are in a ftate to call forhis help, than to a let of fots, who have extin-iguilhed for a time every spark of reason in jtheir fouls, and dilqualified themselvjes forevery religious ad.F. I N I SPrinted by G Miller, Dunbar*