CHEAP TRACTS,Calculated to promote the Interest/ of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. XVIII.THEInstruSor:CONTAINING,REFLECTIONS & MAXIMS,for the condudl of life.MAXIMS for PARENTS,to promote Piety and Virtue inChildren.5 MAXIMS of FILIAL DUTY.ADVICE to SERVANTS,andRULES to make a GOODTRADES-MAN.DUNBAR!'tinted hy G. Miller :—at whole Shop may be had a tariety pfPamphlets,Ballads, Children’s Boohs, Piftures, CittcluUus, &CC.WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,iTHE INSTRUCTOR.- 4 • What nothing earthly gives, or c.an dejlroy,"The Souls calm sun-shine, and the heart-felt joy.Is Virtues Prize..Jl ■ Honour and shame from no Conditio?! rife ■Aft 'well your fart, there all the honour lies.Reflections and Maxims.WE Ihouid fix in our minds fuch a Igrateful remembrance of the blef-fings we have received f^om heaven, that wemay ever love to pra&ife piety aud virtue.We fliould not lo much regard what gooda friend has done us, as how much he de-iired or endeavoured to do.There is no Irving comfortably in theworld without an exchange ol civility. With-*out good-nature and gratitude, man had as.good live in a wildernefs as in civil fociety.A mind well inftrucled bears patientlyall kinds of adverfity and misfortunes.O man ! live well, for all thy deeds will be tKnown ; God beholdeth thee with a juft eye.mufi: take our leave of ourdearefU.mends, and bid a long farewell to all theworld ; only our good works will follow us..We fliould defire very few things paffion-ately, if we did but perfectly know the na- , ., tvjre of the thing we defire.( 3 )Life may be compared to a book, ourrs to the leaves of it.We fhould be careful to write nothina: ipany page which we flioulci be afhamed tohave fcen by all the world.Happy will it be for us when we come togive up our account, - and no man knowshow foon he may be called upon) if we canproduce records of virtuous adlions; but itwill fill us with coufufion to find many pagesentirely blank, and others disfigured withfoul blots.A prudent friend cafes many troubles ;one who is not fo multiplies them.Pleafures, unlefs they be wholly innocent,are never of fo long continuance as the flingthey leave behind them.Much of the mifery of mankind is owingto that unhappy pronenels which is in them,to think too badly of their real condition,and fancy evils which do not belong to it.Fear God : this fear is the moll valua¬ble treafure of the heart of man; you willfind it accompanied withwifdom, peace, joy*high pleafure, true liberty, and unblemilh-ed glory.Grief is a paffion commendable but for atime ; a poifon which works flrongly if non'looked to : it depends on ourfelves to reapj advantage from misfortunes.To be a knave is to rebel againfl Gob.Men are born to be ferviceable to one a-,I other.( 4 )Adverfity is the befl fchool; we may be !fpoiled by profperity, or confirmed in virtue !|by misfortune.They hurt themfelves that wrong others. (Chriflianity is a ftraight path, which willalways conduft us right.God will have all his creatures love himbefore they are admitted to behold his Glo-ry- . . . ,It is not our bufinefs to be thinking whatthe date of other-people’s fouls will be, but ito be doing what will make our own ftate |happy; we cannot all be wife, but we may |'all be virtuous.The world is conflant to no man ; applythyfelf and thy heart to the great Creator ofthe world, and he will not difappoint thee :in thy reafonable expectations.A long life is of little worth, and of fmalladvantage, if it be fpent in the fervice of the :world, not of Goo.Paffions are the gales of life ; and it is ourpart to fee that they do not rife into a tem-peft.The foundation of a happy old age muftbe laid in youth.Grieve not for the dead ; if they led good Iflives they are paft all dangerous ftorms; ra- :ther emulate their reft, having finifhed theircourfe. We too (hall land at the fame no- 'ble port, and partake of their endlefs joys,if we are fo wife as to chufe them.i( 5 )Eternally to be free from whatever can af¬flict ; eternally to enjoy whatever can de¬light, O fweet expectation of a pious life lO happy confequenceof a holy death! As thouO Lord, had prepared fuch felicities for us,0 may thy grace prepare us for them ; dilllet us labour, dill let us fufFer; our troublesare Ihort, our joys eternal !Meeknefs may qualify our miferies here,and make our time pafs ealier away. Lord!without thee, what is all the world to us,but a flying dream of buly vanities ? Lord !while we breathe, make us live to thee, andwhen we expire depart in thy peace.To know thee, O Lord ! is to be trulywife; and to contemplate thee, the higheftI learning!Lord ! how fecure and quiet they live,'whom thy grace prderves in innocence! thei day goes fmoothly over their heads, and fi-lent as the fhadow of a dial; the fpirits ofi their fancy run calm and obedient to reaforir till fome unruly paffion prefles to come in ;s and by its fawning outfide gains admittance..| —O the dedruftion of a life led by humour,dand the thraldom of being fubjeCt to ourj padions, how often do they engage us to1 contend with others, and embitter all our«days with ftrife and envy.I( 6 )MAXiMs/or Parents, to promote PietyVirtue in Chiedren.I.IT is abfolutely ncceflary for hufband andwife 10 ad in perfed concert in the care,reproof, corredion, encouragement, and in-ftrudion of their children. Little good canbe expeded if this is not carefully attendedto.II. Except you teach your children fub-miffion to yourfelves, you will be able toteach them nothing eife. Therefore, be par¬ticularly careful, at all times, to maintainyour proper authority over them, and makethem obedient to your commands.lib Let not your affedion for your child¬ren h ad you to give them any improper in¬dulgences, or to excufe or connive at theirfaults, particularly fuch as deferve chaftife-ment. The bad conlequences of fuch ill-judged tendernefs is too well known in theworld. Many a child, who might, by pro¬per care have been made a blefling to hisparents, has by indulgence, conduded him-ielf in fuch a manner, as at laft to bringdown their gray hairs with forrow to thegrave.IV. Take an efp'ecial care to avoid, notqnly a partial affedion tor any one of yourC 7 )family, :but a^fo of every appearance of it*,.For this, moft commonly, is attended wickvery bad confequences. Your ill-judgedpartiality will provoke the envy, malice, andhatred of the reft of your offspring againft-your favourite, and render them lefs refpect*-ful and obedient to yourlelves. The his¬tory of Jofeph and his brethren is a ftrikinginftance of its bad effedts.V. When they fall into errors of any kindwhich will fometimes happen, in fpite ofthe greateft care, endeavour to convincethem of it, and if they acknowledge theirfhuit, be not fevere with them ; but whileyou are rebuking them for the wrong theyhave done, commend them for the truththey have fpoken.VI. But if they are obftinateand perverfe,and deny the truth, fevere methods mult betaken, and proportioned to the greatnefs ofthe offence. In fuch cafes, you muft avoidevery degree of paffion in inftidling the punifhment, but muft not be fparing of yourrod if occafton requires it. For he that fpaneth his rod hateth his fon, but he who lov-eth him chafteneth him betimes.•VII. Since example is a leflbn they willsoon learn to read, and fince parents are theoriginal models after which children, forthe moft part, form their tempers and beha¬viour, you fhould make it a point to let themgood examples, and do every thing your¬selves you willi them to pra&ise.( 8 )VIII. Be sure to remove far from them c-very bad example ; guard the door of your«wn lips, and be careful to prevent your ser¬vants, or dependants from saying or doingany thing which is improper in their pre¬sence. For they are always ready to copyevery thing they hear or see.IX. As foon as they are able to fpeak,begin to teach them the Lords Prayer, andJet them repeat it regularly night and morn¬ing. To this, in time, may be added theapoflles creed, and any other prayers fuitedto the capacity of children. This will belaying a good foundation for other improve¬ments in righteoufnefs and true holinefs.X. Your next care (hould be, to teachthem the commandments, and the otherparts of the church catechifm ; and whenthey are able to repeat the whole, let themfoe publicly catechifed in the church, andat home, during your leifure hours, endea¬vour to explain it to them. This will beno bad method of teaching them every thingthat a Chriftian ought to know and believeto his loul’s health.XI. When they are capable of learningto read, either inftrudt tiiem yourfelves, orfend them to a good fchool, where properattention is paid to the morals of youth. En¬courage them to diligence, and let themwant no advantage of increafing in know¬ledge and wiidom which you can procure^( 9 )m they can improve; for this, perhaps, willbe of more fervice to them then any thingelfe you can beftow.XU. Never by any means, fuffer them tobe idle, if it is not in your power to givethem a good education, nothing but negli¬gence can prevent you from bringing themup in the fear of God, and to accuftom themto honefl: labour and induftry. This will bea fpecial mean of rendering them bleffingsboth to you and themfelves, and ufefulmembers of fociety ; for it will qualify themto become good and faithful fervants.XIII. The two laft maxims require fomemitigation. The mind cannot always bebent without receiving fome injury. It willtherefore be neceffary to indulge them fome-times, with play and innocent diverfions, byway of relaxation from fevere ftudy or la¬bour. But fuch indulgences ought not tobe too frequent nor continue too long.XIV. Whether they become fervants or. apprentices, it is your duty to encourage themto be fteady, careful, and obliging, andto pay every attention and diligence to thebuiinefs and interefl of their mafters. Byfuch conduct they will be fure togain favour,, and, of courfe, promote their own intereft.S XV. Honelly, in every flation of life, is!the bed policy. Therefore, fhpw them thediladvantages of ufing any kind of falfehood,fraud, cunning, or deceit, and the happy c-'C IQ )ffects of being true and juft in all their deal"ings.XVI. Too great care cannot be takento guard them againft every kind of vice,but particularly againft taking the name ofof God in vain, againft the vile pra&ice offv/earing in common converfation, and a-gainft fabbath breaking, and all other vices,which are countenanced by cuftom or fa-fhion. Thefe may give a kind of licence toiin, but can never make that a&lon goodwhich is by nature bad. Therefore, letthem not follow a multitude to do evil.XVII. Reprefent vice unto 'them in itsgreateft deformity, in order t6 make themabhor that which is evil ; and virtue in itsmoft natural and pleafing drefs, in order tomake them hold faft their integrity, andcleave to that which is good.XVIII. Evil communications too oftencorrupt good manners. It therefore requiresno fmall degree of care to guard them a-gainft keeping bad company. On the con¬trary, encourage them to form virtuous ac¬quaintance.XIX. Endeavour to cherifh in your chil¬dren a fpirit of benevolence, compaflion,gratitude, gentlenefs, and modefty; and tocheck every appearence of inhumanity orcruelty, both towards mankind, and towards€very fpecies of living creatures.( II )XX. Correct their vanity k pride, by giv¬ing them a low opinion of fplendor and vaiafhow, & be careful not to give them too higha notion of their own merit in any refped:,either by praifing them too much, or by in¬dulging them with outward ornaments fuper-ior to their ftation in life.XXI. If you wifh to fee them thrive iathe world, and be refpefted, you mu ft cau¬tion them to avoid both the luxurious ex¬travagance of the fpend thrift, and the lor¬ded meannefs of the mifer. All extremes aredangerous. Therefore inflruft them to keepthe middle path, and by induftry and pru¬dent econoftty, to lay up fomething againftthe decline of life.XXII. Gradually infufe into the minds ofyour children the cleareft and moft affedtingnotions of God, of his Son Jefus Chrift, ofthe fall of man, and of his redemptionthrough the fufferings and death of Chrift,who gave his life a ranfom for you, and formany, for the remiffion of fins.XXIII. Sabbath breaking is the fource ofmany other crimes, therefore accuftom them,from their infancy, to keep holy the Sabbath.Day. Make them repair, every time divinefervice is performed, to church, or fome o-ther place of public worfhip; and in orderto make them attentive to what is read orpreached unto them, it will be proper, afterthey return home, to inquire whether theyrecoiled the words of the text, what part of( IJt )fCripture it was taken from, and the headsof the difcourfe.XXIV. It is the duty of every Chriftianto reverence and efteem the word of God,and to fearch the fcriptures. Therefore letfome part of the facred day be fpent in read¬ing to them fome portion of the Old or NewTeftament, and as foon as they are able toread let> them feverally bear a part of thisufeful and pious exercife.XXV. Encourage them, as much as pof-Jible, to read moral and religious books, andinftead of novels and romances, and otherprofane and irreligious publications, whichtend to corrupt the morals, to fill the mindwith faife and improper ideas, and the headwith ufelefs lumber, put into their handsnatural hiftory, and any other books thatare entertaining and ufeful.XXVI. Often remind them of the fhort-nefs of life and the certainty of death. In¬form them that in this world we have no a-biding city ; that we are ftrangers and pil¬grims on earth, as all our forefathers were ;that we are now in a flate where our virtueis to be tried and exercifed; that after deathwe muft all appear before the judgmentfeat of Chrift j>and that, according as wenowlead our lives, will be our happinefs ormifery to all eternity.XXVII. Since we have no power of our-felves to help ourfelves, are incapable ofperforming any duty as we ought, and haveno right to expedl any good fuccefs in ourundertakings without theafliftance and blef-iing of Almighty God, it will be neceffary,when you endeavour to inftruft your child¬ren in the way they (hould go, to ule thefollowing, or fome fimilar prayer.Almighty and moft merciful God, whohaft promifed children as a reward to therighteous, and haft been pleafed to blefs us,thy humble iervants, with so great a markof thy favour, grant us the blefling of lifeI and health to lee them chriftianly and vir-.tuoully brought up. We are fenlible of ourobligation, but muft acknowledge our ina¬bility to difcharge this important duty with¬out thy divine aid. Be plcafed, therefore,0 gracious Lord ! to biefs our endeavourswith good fuccefs. May our inftru&ions befeafonably and properly applied, and maywe have grace to enforce the pra&ice ofr them, by doing every thing ourfelves we wilh| them to do. May the feeds of eternal lifeS be early Town in their hearts. May each of-» them increafe in piety and virtue as they1 advance in years. May thy gracious pro-i vidence guide them fafely through the dan-j gers and temptations of this mortal life. BepleafeJ to blefs them with the enjoyment ofhealth, to fpend many happy days and yearsin thy moft holy religion. May their con-dutft and behaviour be fuch, as to prove1 «.I( i4 )tlicm a comfort to us, a blefling to them-felvcs, and an ornament to fociety. Finally, jgrant them grace to be good children, goodfubjeifb, and good chriflians, and after thisfrail life is ended, may they attain everlaft-ingjoy and felicity, through JefusChrift ourLord. Amen.Upon the whole, if you proceed thus, yormay reft perfuaded, that your pious endeavours will not be in vain. Both the naturof things, and the promife of God, enfurlucccfs.IT is the indifpenfible duty of every chikto obey the commands of his parentsBoth father and mother are entitled to hiobedience. Children faith St. Paul, obe;your parents in all things; and in order tiexcite and quicken them in thedifcharge othis duty’ he adds: for this is well pleafiwunto the Lord.II. Confider frequently, you who haviparents, what they have done and fufferecfor you, and let the remembrance of it preferveyou froiri all a&s of difobedience. FoMaxims of Filial Duty-.Idifobedient children are offenfive to God.C )III. Let your conduft and behaviour to-; wards them always be-reipedtful, reverent,and fubmiflive, and your words affectionateand humble.IV. Rejoice to teftify, by every means in; your power, your love, and veneration, and1 gratitude to your tender and affectionate. parents. It is to them you are indebted,I not only for your exiftence, but alfo for their: care in promoting your welfare, giving youj education, and inftrufting you in the dutiesi of virtue and religion.V. Liften attentively to their good in-flrucftions and advice. It is your interelll;they thave at heart in giving it; and theirduty, their affe&ton, and their experience(empower, induce, and quality them to do it.VI. Be careful to follow their good exam¬ples in the pradice of every godly, relative,uand focial duty. For though it is their dutyiito train you up in the way you (hould go,i,and to fet you good examples ; yet you muffiremember, it is yours to attend to their in-ftrudions, and to tread in their fteps. •VII. Where parents are either incapableor negligent of giving' good inflrudions tojtheir children, the greateft care and diligenceIis required of thofe children to gain know¬ledge, and to improve themfelves in righte-ipufncfs and true holinefs. For without thefeino man Ihall fee the Lord.v'r it ' .1( 16 )VIII. The happinefs of your parents de¬pends, in a great meafure, on yourcondud ;therefore be careful to do juflly, love mer¬cy, ancLwalk humbly with your God. Byfo doing, you will rejoice the hearts of thofewho have done fo much for you. Virtuous ;children are the joy of their parents. Awife fon, faith Solomon, maketh a glad fa- |ther.IX. On the other hand, guard yourfelvcs f|againfl: every fpecies of ill-behaviour, wick- ■edncfs, and vice, and from doing any thingthat may give pain to thole perfons whofehearts have felt no little on your account.Your ill-conduct will moft certainly be pro¬ductive of their mifery. A foolilh fon isthe heavinefs of his mother. And if youtake up, and perfevere in bad ways, youwill, in time, bring down their gray hairs I.with forrow to the grave.X. Be not impatient of parental control.If you fuffer the fond defire of acting with- •out reftraint, and of indulging your own |inclinations to get poffeffion of your hearts, ,the moft gentle authority of your affection- itate parents will foon become burdeniometo you ; and you may lament the time of )•fliaking off your dependence on, and difre- igard to your parents, perhaps fo long as you (.five.,1m'i( )XI If they fee it neceffary to oppofe ytfurinclinations in any refpect, never imaginethey do it out of any other motive but loveto you. They are ever folicitous for yourwelfare, and from their experience, are ca¬pable of judging v?hat will hinder or pro¬mote it.XII. Check every temptation to inde¬pendence by fuch confiderations as thefe.My parents have the tendereft regard for me.I have experienced their love on variousoccafioas. My father, who has taken luchkind care of me hitherto; and my mo¬ther, who lo otren fupported me at her ownbreaft, and has fhown the moft earneft at¬tention to my wellaie ever .fince, can neverfreftrain me from any thing which wouldmake me truly happy, nor advilc me to doany thing, but what is lor my good. Theyhave lived longer, feen and known more,and are wifer than myfelr. 1 am determin¬ed, therefore, to lubdue my own inclinations,and contentedly fuffer myfelf to be led, andgoverned bp their counfels and directions.XIII. Never hide any tranfaction ofconfequence from them. What you wilhto conceal are molt commonly fuch thingsas are hurtful to yourfelves. Therefore, ifyou have been imprudent, acknowledge analconfeis it to thofe who, by their love to youand their knowledge, are calculated to givethe bell advice, and to mitigate, if not pre¬vent, the impending bad confequence.C 18 )XIV. Repay not the fears and anxieties,they have experienced for your happindsand fuccefs in the world, by difobedienceand deeds of unkindnds, which will pierce !>them to tlse loul, and, perhaps, break thofe ihearts, which you and you alone, have longhad foie poflerlion ohXV. Shew the mod tender concern forthem on all occahons; and if you happento have a widowed parent, remember to ebehave to her with a greater degree of duty !and love. Double.kindnefs, if pofiible, andall the tendemefs and affection imaginable,are requiftte to alleviate the difficulties and tforrows of widowhood.XVI. Defpis.e not your parents, if hap-,pily you fhould be fo bleft as to have gain- -ed a degree of knowledge or fortune fuperiorto them ; but on the contrary, have eompaf-fion on their infirmities, excufe their foibles, •and, as much as you can fupply their wants, iThey took the greateft care of you in yourhelplef? infancy ; and you ought certainlyto return it in the helplefs and feeble period vof their ficknefs and old age.XVII. Maintain an affe&ionate regard foryour brothers and fifters. Fraternal love is .not only agreeable to nature,- and well- ,pleafing to Goo, but will likewife promote .the happinefs of your parents, and be pro-duftive of many advantages, and attended,with many comforts. Behold how good and j( 19 )ipleafact a thing it is fo? brethren to dwellaltogether in unity.XV111 Flee youthful lulls; fortheindul-jgence of thefe moft commonly leads to ruin!tand milery. You have many examples ofithe pernicious and fatal effects of inch ways;therefore let the mifconduct of others warnlyou to avoid the dangerous rocks they have: fplit upon. And happy fhali you be, if youthis gain wifdom by their follyXIX. Ufe the greateft care and circum-fpectu n to avoid bad company of both lexes,nbut efpecilly of the female : for bad compa-ijny of that kind is the mod poifonous cor¬rupter of youth. It is the greatest enemyjito every good principle, and to good man-|ners.| XX. Never be guilty of the vice of lying;I for it renders youth both dangerous and de-fpicabie, and fows the leeds of a veryworth-lels and contemptible character in future■jlife.i XXI. Carefully avoid the common andj pernicious practice of (wearing, as utterlyfinexcufable. It has no plea of pleafure orfutility to urge in its defence, and it is cer¬tainly a very great affront to Almighty God.otherwise St. James would not have laid,1 Above all things, my brethren, fwear not.i XXU. Use no kind of obicene expreffionsfin your conversation, nor give countenanceto it, by liflening to it in others. It is the,, ^C 20 )surefl; indication of an impure and a deprav- |-ed, as well as a weak heart. ;jImmodest words admit of no defence,' For want of decency is want of feme.XX111. Idlenefs is the root of all evil; !jtherefore be not flothful in bufinefs.Flee Jloth, the canker of good men and parts, .| Of health, of wealth, of honour, and of arts;Induftry choofe. your innocence ,twill guard.And health and wealth your labour will reward. ,XXIV. Since it is God alone who workethin you both to will and to do of his goodpleasure, conftantly and fervently pray to ihim, to affift you with his divine grace and ‘influence in the due discharge of your dutyto your parents.Finally. If you expect happiness here andhereafter, if you expect favour either from, tGod or man, do not neglect your duty toyour parents; but by lives of duty, virtue, .and religion, by a conscientious denial andsubdual of youthful lufts, by avoiding allbad company, by diligently employing your-1selves in your lawful callings, and by keep- 'ing your tongues from lying, swearing, andindecency, endear yourselves more and!more to your tender and affectionate parents, iGive them cause to bless God perpetually [for you; give them cause to rejoice, that iamidd all the temptations to vice whichC ai )I surround unwary youth, God's goodness! hath preserved you unpolluted, and that youI live a bleffing to yourselves, a comfort tol them, an ornament to religion and virtue ;; and, from your obedience to your parents,i are likely to obtain the approbation of God,land be bleffed with length of days, even aneternity of happy ages in the land of reftiand peace.ITNDULGE not unfeemly things in thyjL mafter’s children, nor refufe them whatis fitting ; for one is the higheft unfaithful-nefs, and the other indifcretion as well asjumj mine own work honeftly and cheer¬fully ; and when that is done help thy1'ellow, that fo another time he may helpr;hee.If thou wilt be a good fervant thou muftbe true ; and thou canft not be true if thoudefraudeft thy mafter., A mafter may be.defrauded many ways byfervant, as in time, care, pains, money,iruft.He who negledls his work robes his mafter;hince he is fed and paid as if he did his beft:i nd he who is not as diligent in the abfcnce,j'i in the prefence of his mafter, cannot be atie fervant.Advice ro Servants.C 22 )Nor is be a true fervant, who buys dearto (hare in the profit with the feller.Nor yet he who .tells tales without doorsor deals bafely in his mafter’s name withother people, or connives at others loiterings,waitings, or dilhonourabhe reflections.But a true fervant is the contrary of althis: he is diligent, careful, trufty. H<tells no tales, he reveals no fecrets, refule;g\o pains, is not to be tempted by gain. Oil-awed by fear, to unfaithfulness. Such afervant deferves well, and, if modeft unde; ■his merit, (bould be liberally rewarded.Such a fervant fcrves Goo in ferving himailer, and may expect double washes fo;bis work here and hereafter.L;Rules to make a good Tradesman.I.Endeavour to be perfea in thcalling you are engaged in, and b;afliduous in every part thereof; induflr]being the natural means of acquiring wealthhonour and reputation, as idlenefs is opoverty, fhamc and difgrace,II. Lay a good foundation in regard tprinciple. Be fure not wilfully to over-reacor deceive your neighbour, but keepalwayin your eye the golden rule of doing as yowould be done unto.( *3 ), Ill Be flrick in difchargin^ all legalii debts. Do not evade your creditors by any| fhuffling arts, in giving notes under your{ hand, only to defer payment; but if youI have it in your power ddcharge all debts' when they become due. Above all, whenI you are ftraitened for want of money, be] cautious of taking it upon high intereft..! This has been the ruin of many, thereforeendeavour to avoid it.IV Endeavour to be as much in youri'lhop or warehoufe, or whatever place yourbufinefs properly lies, as poffibly you can.Leave it not to fervants to tranfadl; forjcuftomers will not regard them as yourfelf.|They generally think they (hall not be fowell ferved ; befides, miftakes may arife byithe negligence or inexperience of fervants;and therefore your prefence will prevent•probably the lofs of a good cuftomer.V. Be complaifant to the meaneft as well:tas to the greateft. You are as much obligedto life good manners for a farthing as apound; the one demands it from you asveil as the other.VI. Be not too talkative, but fpeak as■' much asneceffary to recommend your goods,tnd always obferve to keep within ihe rulesof decency. If cuflomers flight your goods,.nd undervalue them, endeavour to con-nnce them of their miftake if you can, buttt- ,ot to affront therp. Be not pert in your- ynlwers, but with patience hear, and with( 24 )meeknefs give an anfvrer; for, if you affrotKin a fmall matter, it may probably hinder jyou from a future good cuftomer. They :may think you impofe in the articles theyjwant; but, by going to another, may find itnot fo, and probably may return again ; but !if you behave rude and affronting, there is |no hope of their returning, or of their future!cuftom.VII. Take an efpecial care in keeping youraccounts well. Enter every thing neceffaryin your books with neatnels and-exactnefs.!Often ftate your accounts, and examinewhether you gain or lofe, and carefullyfurvey your flock, and infpect into everyparticular of your affairs.VIII. Take care, as much as you can,whom you truft; neither take nor give longcredit, but at the fartheft annually fettle youraccounts. Deal at the fountain-head for asmany articles as you can ; and, jf it lies iniyour power, for ready money. This methodlyou will find to be mod profitable in the®end. Endeavour to kee*p a proper afforr-ment in your way, but not to overflock your-;felf. Aim not at making a great figure injyour (hop in unneceffary ornament; but letit be neat and cleanly. Too great an ap¬pearance may rather prevent than engageouflomers. *FINIS.Printed hy G Miller,