FOUR EXCELLENTJEW SONGShe Sheer ngs no for you,he Old Man s Song,he Happy Stranger,he Orange Boys.Edinburgh j Printed by J. Morrerw( * )The SHEERING's no for yo«. |IT was in the montb of Mayit was in the of May,When the flowers they were gay,■and the Iambs did IpOrt and play IMy bonny laffie. O.Don‘t you tnind on yonder hi'Imy bonny laddie O,When yob fwore you would ms kill,if you would not get your willMy beTuvy .laduie, O. , »The {heeling's kc for you honny lallic, O.th.e^aeijiig^ np-for you,For,ye or back it will net bowaflU your befys,roilk>sr fu‘I* My bonny iaffie O, :!,;1Ycuh red is fumed, white bonny lafUe -Oyjpyr reel is turned frhite, i)T inlaid you are hot right,and it foon will come to light.My bonny laJSe O.Yoiir een are turned blue bonny !af£:, Oyour cen arc turned blue,And this' will never do,and belive #ie it is true,My bojiny hilic!| ir* t y j u mi nd th e banks of Air bonny laddie, Oim t you mind the banks of Airwdien I \ras in deipiair,d you left me in t ie lnar?tmy bonny laddie, O.ini t you mind in Glafgovv green,iny bonny laddie ( Aion t yon mind on GlalgoW green,when you laid we were not fee.here yon wrought on my machine,my bonny laddie 0>be, fifes did fweetly play, -tithe fifes did fweetiy play,lid jhe troops did march awayand it‘s here I darna ILay,iS'j bonny laddie, O,is you may kill me dead,bonny laddie, O, 'is i li no kill you dead,nor make your body bleed,or marry you with fpeedmy bonny -lailie. O.: fay youdl die for me, bonwy kflie, O,you 'need nor die tor meir HI pay the ntmfes fee,and you'll get your hfmty, '*my binny lafiie, O. 'id an Irifhman for me bonny laddie, O,i and an (cUhtuau icr me.. * 4 )For he fpends his money freeand h<* i* the boy for me,my bonny laddie, O.Tambouring is my tradeFor tambruring is my tradeAnd I love an Irifh lad,.For he‘s a roving blade,my bonny laddie, O.THE OLD MAN'S SONGOWHY (houldold agefomuchwound.u!There isnothingin’tafalltoconiouad^sFor how happy now am 1.Widi my old wi'e fitting by,And otfr bairns and our oyes all aroundFor kovr happy now am I, Stc.We began in this world with naething O,And weM- jogg’d onandtoildror theacthnigWe made ofc cf what v.*c hadAnd our thankful hearts were gladWhen we got the bit sneat and the ciaithing^We made ufe of what we had, &.cWhen we had any thing we never vauntedNor did we hing our heads when wc wantd,We always gave a fhare,Ol the little we could fpare,When it pea fed the almighty to grant it (Wc always gave a iiiarc, 8tc,•ip have liv'd ail our life tune contented O,•lice the day we became firfl acquainted, O,I ft*3 true we have been poor.iAnd we are io to this hour,t we never repin 4 nor lamented, OIt*s true we have been poor, &c.ip never'laid a plot to be wealthy Oij wTays that were cunning or Healthy, O,(Bin we always had the blefs,dud what further could we wis‘ ?)| be pleas d with ourfeies and be healthy^ O,r But we alvays had the blefs!t tho‘ wc cannot bouft: of onr guineas OI’have plenty ■of Jockies and Jeni.ies, O,And tbeCe l‘m certain are,iiMore defireablc by farpn a bag full of poor yellow ftanies., O,And thefe I-ni certain are, &c,e have feen many wonders and fairli« O,Id changes that have aimed been yearly, O,tO: rich folks tip and down,Jlioih in country and in town,iiiat now live both fcrirnply and fparely, O,I Of rich folks up and down,ijien why fiiould people brag of profnerity O,dice a ftraitcrrd life we fee is no rarity, 6 t.Indeed \ve‘ve been in wantAnd our living's been but leant,;t we never werereduc d to ftek* charily, O,indeed we've beui in want. &ctC <s )n this houfe we firft came together O.Where we ve long been a father and inoiher|And tho‘ not of ftone and lime,It will ferve us all our timeAnd I hope we fhall never need another, OAnd tho; not of ftone and lime, &c,;And when v/c leave this habitation O,Wedl depart with a good commendation, £We'il go hand in hand I wis!,To a better place then this,And make room for the next generation, CWe 11 gp hand in hand I wis‘, 6tc.Then why fiiould old age fo much wounds us,There is nothing in it ah to confound us, Cfor ho y happy bow am I,With my old wde fitting by.And our ba; ins and cur eyes all around us,f or how hsppy now aa* 1, See,The Happy St: anger,AS l was a waikiog one morning in the fpringJTo hear tae birds whu'tic and oightingi. - ‘ II heard a fair maid who was makiug her moaa |Suyicg, i a*i a poor ftranger and far from ary ot ftep’tf op to her act) roadt a lov, gee,And it lira hjri psrd.u for r.akmf fo free.JSajin.:, I hav’t tr.k 'n pity ow l:ea> ng.yos; meanras t aw a ftrungtr ana far frow inj home*j lev tfrtk; bttiih^iike roSes acd,(Uc a tear,4 t5,fays :ir t vbtidcr 'at rneetin;/ you here,t I hope you/ll not ill qfe -m.. ia this flerart aloae,i I m a poor firaa^er and fa: from my owntMy ’deir to ill fife you I tched I ne’er will,heart* bjopd to five you isdeedi' I woujd fpill,I (It ive ter to cafe you and relieye'a’l your moan,Ud Wi© to conVcy you fafe back to^ your home.^Therefore my (leaf jrvvel ?Tyon wau'J agreeI Del if tyer you jmajr.v. to man y wit h me ' -II be your guardian thir.'’ tuetc'defarts unknown,t.l with youf parents 1 leave at home,Kir, whvie is you'" country, I’d wlfh for to knowid w bar’s thehphfbmthes y< u do uodc-reola? cat)l*d you Vo wander fo far from your homead us to. n,jsct ft;angers, in this ddart alone,He fays my fwcct fair one the truth l will tell,1 was in tiiy"bw'if country near ITcwry I dwell,it yet, to miffo! tunes by love t was proneiliich h ade many a hero ‘^0 far from bis home.Sir, the lads of fw. et Ncw/y are all roving blades,ad take great delight tn courting fair maids,;ey kifs them.and prtfs them-and call them their,own,nd perhaps your darling lies mourning at home,Believe me my jswel the cafe is Uot fo,'j ftvet was married the truth you taufi know,tbefe flraugc s agreed as the cafe it is koowc,lid 1 with them both Ijsppy and fafe to ihcii home.' 8 )the ORANGE PGYS.■yE Protefiants of Ireland I pray vqu end aft carS'ep forth *-ith lofty courage ande e v u 'el 'We’;! fight for Georjje’a crown, to sain honour ar irenown.We ncvr/ w-ili return til! we puli cunvetiom dowi |Many a brisk young weave: left bi* iweatheart ahis loom,Like wife his tender pnentf to join the orange me!The time it is a coming that they mrft mzrch awTo iome foreign country to face thei: enemies. .Thi* noble Colonel Vernon is a man ofhiglirenoJHis dwelnng is at Church bill near to Portadown^l/is he is come ambngft ui to head a noble band,He fay* h* f,aVe n '’ne f>ur a rea^ oramge-man,thii ft- b!c Colonel Vcnon wears a (tar a!l on (bread,Till he iubditcs his enemies he never will get reftHe never will get reft till he has the viftory won,And ft)onhc*H let them know that from noble bloche <prong.Year e'eathirg Aiili befearletturn’d up withoranjfioe, ly ftft™With glittering c.p and feather your heads will bniWith your niulktt on your fhouidcr, you'll go wiu. out advance,A loug with Colonel Vernontoclip the prideof F ranEv^»y lad tt .t hi. a lofs will take her on hia kne\Vi h kind and fond embraces, with love and unitWe’ll tofs about the (lov ing bowel, fo merrily we;fing, sHere's a health to Colonel Vernon, LikcwifciCeoige out King-FINIS.