NEGRO' SERVANT,AN AUTHNTIC AND INTERESTING NARRATIVE OF AYOUNG NEGRO SERVANTIN Three parts.J^art the First. Shewing how he was made a Slavein Africa, and carried to Jamaica, where he was soldto a Captain in his Majesty’s Navy, by whom he wastaken to America, where he lie came a Christian, and 'was afterwards brought to Englatid.Pai't the Second. Containing an Acccoimt of hismanner of Life, after he became a,Christian.Part the Third. Shewing how he was received a-mong Christian Society, and at length Baptized bythe Clergyman of the Parish.Edinburgh : Printed aSd Sold by J. Morren, Ccwgate-and at No 15, Broughtoh Street.NEGRO SERVANT.PART I.D1\URING a residence of some years continuance in 'the neighbourhood of the sea, an Officer in the Na-ivy called upon the Writer, and stated that he had justjei^a ' parish for his wife and children ;and that he had a Negro, whom he had kept tliree yearsin his service. ‘ The lad is a handy fellow,’ said thethncer, 4 and he has a great desire to'be baptised: I havepromised him to ask you to do it for him, if you havenot any okection.’‘ Does he know any any thing,41 .replied,’ of the prin¬ciples of the Christi;.1 religion?’4 O yes, I am sure he does,’ answered the Captain;* ^or talks a deal about it in the kitchen, and oftengets laughed at for his pains; but lie takes it all verypatiently.’‘Does he behave well as your servant?’4 Yes, that he does: he is as honest, and civil a fellow,as ever came aboard a ship, or lived in a house.’4 Was he always so well behaved?’4 No,’ said the Officer: 4 when I first had him' he wasofte . very unruly and deceitful: but for the .last twoyears he has been quite another creature.’4 Well, Sir, I shall be Very glad to s^e him, and thinkit pi ob able, 1 shall wish to go through a course of in¬struction and examination; during which I shall be ableto ^orrn a judgment, how far it may be right to admithim to the Sacrament of baptism. Can he read?’4 Yes,’ replied his master; 4 he has been taking'greatpains to lear. to read f>r some time past, and can make( 2 )vant informs me. He speaks English better than rranyof his countrymen, but you will find it a little brokenuWhen wilt it be convenient that I should send him t oYOU?’‘To-morrow afternoon, Sir, if you please.’‘He shall come to you about four o‘ clock, and y« lshall see what you can make of him.‘With this promise he took his leave. I felt glad fotan opportunity of instructing a native of that land whosewrongs and injuries had often caused me to sigh andmourn, the more so when I reflected tcfio had been theaggressor®.At the appoLt .ed hour my negro disciple arrived Hewas a very young-looking man, with a sensible, livelyand pleasing turn of countenance.I desired him to sit down, and said.—‘ Your Master,mforms me, that yeu wish to have seme conversationwith me, Respecting Christian Baptism?’‘Yes, Sir, me very much wish to be a Christian ’said Tie. ’' Why do you wish sc ? ’■ Because me know, that Christian go to Heavenwhen he die.’ bHow long have you had that wish?’ I said.Ever since me hear one goot minkter preach in A,merica; two^years ago.(‘Where were you born:’'In A5rica‘ Me W3S very little, when me was madeslave by the white men.’‘ How was that ?’i, lath’ : an<J mother one day at heme,get Shells oy the sea shore; and, as I v,»s ^ S®to gather, them up, so^ie w*'-'- ^ooping downboat, andtooV ~e' wav sailor^am; out of aEer again.’  Me never see and mo-And what became of you then ? ’- Ie was put into a ship and brought .to Jamaic^ and( 4 )Sold to a master, who keep me in his house to serve hirrSome years; when, about three years ago, Captain W—my master that spoke to you, bought me to be his ser¬vant, on board his ship. And he be goat Master ; he| ;ave me my liberty, and made me free, and the liver /ith him ever since.’4 And what thoughts had you about your soul, all thajt ime before you went to America ? ’ 1 asked him.4 Me no care for my soul at all before then. Nc7 nan teach me a word about my soul.’4 Well, now tell me farther about what happened ttyou in America. How came you there ?’’ My Master take ire there in his ship, and he stopthere one month, anil then me hear tl.6, goot minister A14 And what did that minister say ?’4He said, me was great sinner.’4 Did he speak to you in particular ? ’4 Yes, me think so ; for there was great many to hearhim, but he tel! them all about me.’4 What did he say ? ’4He say about all the things that were in my heart.'4 What things ? ’4 My sin, my ignorance, my know-nothing, my be-fieve nothing. The goot minister made me see, thalme think nothing goot, nor (It nothing geet.’4 And what else did he tell you ? ’4 He sometime look me in the face, and say, that Je¬sus Christ came to die for sinners, poor black sinners,as wcdl as white sinners. Me thought this was veryijgoot. vergoot indeed, to do so for wicked sinners.’4 And what made you think this was all spoken to you.inp; rticuiar ? ’* Because me sure no such wicked sinner as me in allfh, place The goal jnin is ‘.er must know me was <htxe.- ;v: what did you think, about yourself, while hei^reached ab:. ut Jesus Christ ? ’4 Sir, me was very much afraid, when he said the, . ( 5 )wicked must be turned in’ o hell fire. For me felt, thatme was very wicked siav.r, and that make me cry.And he talk much about the love of Ciirist to srnters,and that make me cry more. And me thought me mustlove Jesus Christ, but me not know how, and that make. me cr\ .again.’4 Did you hear more sermons than one, during; thatmonth ?’4 Y es, Sir, Master give me leave to go three times,and all the times me wanted to love Jesus more, and dowhat Jesus said; but my heart seem sometime hard,like a stone.1'4 Have yvj.i ever heard any preaching since that time ?’4 Never, till me hea rsermon at this chm ch last Sunday,and then me long to be baptised in Jesu’s name: for mehad no Christian friend * to baptise me, when little child.’4 And what have been your thoughts all the timesince you heard these sermons in America; did youtell any body then ■what you felt ?’4 No, me speak to nobody, but to God then. Thegoot minister say, that God hear the cry of the poor; some cry to God, and he hear me. 4)4 me often thirdsabout Jesus Christ, and wish to be like him.’4 Can you read ?’4 A little.’4 Who taught you to read ?*4 God teach me to read.’4What do you mean by saying so?’4 God give me desire to read, and that make reading-easy. Master give me Bible, and one sailor shew methe letters; an^l so me karnt to read by myself, withGod’s goot help.’4 And what do you read in the Bible ?’4 Oh ! me read all about Jesus Christ, and how he lov¬ed supers ; and wicked the;, kil’cd him, and he died, andcame again from the.grave, and alt this for poor Negro.And n sometimes make me eng to think that Christlove sa poor Negro.’i And ^hat do,the Pe«ple sty about your reading; andnd praying, and attention to the things of GodWIC^ed, PeoPle that do not love Jesus Christ,call me great fool, and Negro dog, and black hypoSAnd that make me sometime feel angry; but th*-,remember, Christian must not be angry for that Tesus Christ was called ugly black naSes, and te wSqmetas a lamb : and so then me remember Jesus Christ Iand me say nothing again to them.’ ’ *vV.as delighted with the simplicity and anpa-of‘'“s poor Negro; and wished, to Jeer.Sjle 1‘|hto"i,feeli"« 'ro possessed on‘ ' , ' dlnj P01!ds’. bt. Paul’s summary of religion^- , urnn6 to nie, I said, ‘ Tell me, what is faith ?°whatcSr 47faith! Wllaii t°you believe about Jesuswnr..,t,'and your own soul ?’4he worweIieVe’r £3.’:d he’ ‘ ^at Jesus Christ came into2 °rld t0|ave stnners 5 and though me b? chi?f ot 1-nners, ycl .esus will save me, though me be or’- |poor blacfr .Negro.’* wnat u jyZT hone? What do you hope for, both asto this life, and that which is if. come?’‘ Me hope Christ Jesus will take goot care cf me, andkeep me from sin and harm, while me live here ; andme hope, when me come to die, to go and live withhim always ard never die again.’* What are your thoughts about Christian love andcharity ?’ I mean, whom and what do yon most love ?’4 Me love God. the Father, because he was so good tosend his Son. Me love Jesus Christ, because he loveme. Me love all men, black men and white men too;for God made tnem all. Me love goot Christian peo¬ple, because Jesu s love them, and they love Jesus.’Such was my first conversation with this young dis-* Mow sbideth fimi;, hope, charity , these three; but theeaiestof these is charity,C -T )ciple ; I rejoiced in the prospect of receiving him intothe church, agreeably to his wishes.' I wished, how¬ever, to converse somewhat farther, and enquire moreminutely into his conduct, and promised to ride over,and see him in a few dajs at his- master’s lodgings.When lie was gone, I thought within myself, Godhath indeed redeemed souls by the 'blood of his Son,‘out of every kindred and,tdngue, and people and nation.’If many of them few a season are devoted to earth¬ly slavery,* through the cruel avarice of man : yet bles-ed be God, some amongst them are, through DivineGrace, called to the glorious liberty of the children ofGod; and so are redeemed from the slavery of him, whotakes so many captives at his willTHE NEGPtd’s PH AYER.■JESUS who ma-Vsf the meanest soul, / An okject of tTiy care.+ r* •,rr'k:«4 - 1   - * «For thou, when bleeding- on the cyoss,My sins and griefs did’st bear:This Aiak>. • me thunk thou’lt not refuselo hear-a Negro’s prayer.I was a helpless Negro boy.And wandered on the shore,Thieves took me from my parent’s armsI never saw them more.Attend to what my heart would speak,Hear a poor Negro’s prayer.r( 8.)But jet uiy lot, which- seem’d so hard,Quite otherwise did prove:For I was carried far from homeTo learn a Saviour’s love.Poor and despised though I was.Yet thou, O God was’t nigh.And when thy mercy first I saw.Sure none so glad as I.In Ignorance I long had liv’d,• A rebel too'I’d b :eh;But thy great kindness, O my Gocl;,■ Sav’d me ftorri all my sin.Mine was a v/retched .state, expos’dTo men and Angel’s view';A ilave to 'man a; slave to sin,A slave to Satan too.But if the Son hath made me free,Then I am free indeed :From power^ of man, of sin, and hell,For evermore I’m freed. •O! send thy word for that far land.Where none but-N^groes live :Teach them the way, the truth, the'hfe.Thy grace, thy blessing give; -O! that my father, mother dear,Might there thy mercy see;Tell them what Christ hath done for them,What Christ hath dene for me..Whose God is like the Christian’s God?Wrho can with him Compare ?He hath compassion on my soul.And hears a negro’s prayer.Lord Jesus, thou hast shed thy bloodFor thousand. such as me;.  * Many despise poor Negro slave*But 1 am loved by thee.( 9 )And this is all I want below,To be thy constant care,Keep me from sin and danger, LordAnd iiear a Negro’s prayer.In heaven the Land of gl<fy Hcs>* should enter there, *111 teethe Saints, and AngeIg tInou heard’st a Negro’s prayerpart ILN glX'SeTi ““-W vAh TO7 Ne.conversing with him anain at h-‘°me Wlth the desire ofroad lay over a lofty down or hilT^Id V10^' ThCprospect of scenery seldom ecmalleH fXt! ^ C01rmaild:i ^pasture. Here aadThSt shepLrd’5 h’ g‘‘‘s’the flock committed to his care. 6 S b°>'vvatched overoounded^ocean SOUth‘ea£t’ !he an-vered with vessels of^si^rWa'?s-, ^ tvas corAt the south-west of th^ spot on^-'n r1 directio^-extended a beautiful bay bounH 1 W;j> ri^^g,yond this lay a range If hfllf ngh cliJFs- Be-notherfrom the north bounds^lar^f with a'fields, now ripe fbr harvec't, DrJl ^ fr^ul vale, who.eG°d in the rich provision^ hich^r^ ^ g0odn^ ofol men. He prepares theTor^ V f°r thc13 g00Ciness’ ^ his paths *op faS^ liey10 }•poa the pastures, of the v. iMetn^, and the little hillsrtio’ce on every side. 1 he pastures are clothed vn.ifocks; the valeys also are covered over v/ith corn: theyshout for joy, they also sing.As I looked upon the numerous shvps moving betoreiro, I remembered the words of the Psalmist; ’ ■ oeythat go down to the sea in ships, that do business m greatv/aters: these see the works of the Lord, and his won¬ders in the deep. For he commandeth and -aiseth thestormy wind, which lifceth up the wavesthereoi. theymount up to the heaven, they go down again to ti;edepths: their soul is melted because of trouble, theyreel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and arcat their wits ends. Then they cry unto the Lord intheir trouble, and he br ageth them out of their distress¬es He maketh the storm a .calm, so that the wavesthereof are still. Then are they glad, because they beouiet: so he bringeth them unto their desired haven. U.that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, andfor his wonderful works to the children of men. 1 a. cvn.A' I pursued the meditations which this magim.ceinand varied scenery excited in my mind, I approached theed<m of a tremendous perpendicular cliff, with which thdown terminates ; I dismounted fiom my horse, and tedk to a bush. The breaking of the waves agams. thefoot of the cliff at so great a distance beneath me, pro¬duced incessant and pleasing murmur. The sea-gu sv er" flying between the top of the cliff where I stood,and the^rocks t eloW, attending upon their nests, bun mSe holes of the cjk The whole scene m every dnec-tion was grand and impressive: it was smtabLvto devo-J on Thf Creator appeared in the works of his crea-and called upon the creature to honor and adorn,tlliever it is doubly so. He jiossessses a cove-x0 t, riobt ^0 the enjoyments of nature and Providence,mn ni, to the priviliVes of grace. His c. tie-deed runsas things are j ours ^ whether Paul cr Apolios,thus„ ( H )^npphaS(,or th2 or life, or deaw, or thingsote-Chit-sUrChAt my°Ur3:. smS'cZ/.h/ZrS'* f1?' t0‘he Wt toward,sand It «■ n ,re of which consists of fine hardkumL interSLsTL d ^ e^th- Sta o" ‘‘ o-retirement and confem 1 ^edillkT^ ^ seems formed forunexpectedly observ-d a m°n' on5oftl'ese rocks!he w£ readme Ihe g a b«>k’ whiAperpendicular^ below me■ ^7“""l0 nn<lred}'ardStlrcss, and by the hh L- ’i Ut ^ soon discovered by hised with ,he7„ht S Sd“f h°for than my negro d;sci->le 'ii im’T^at lt; was 150 °th-ble in his hand T — ;JWlth’ as 1 doubted not, a Bi-tunity of meeting himT*1 ^ 'V-' llnlo8ked-for oppor-situation. 1 Ce-^nded SG s°htary and interesting eof rude stair-Se ft™ Jl.eP?? ' windinS byhoys in the side of the cliff I^SThe ^r.*'^’‘ Wdham, is that yon?’Massa into thisa,nkce'>er\fialt0 ^ yOU' How CGWionly God and me.’ th0U°ht nobod/ h^, but^ house to'see you,sea, and the shipping Is t0 lo°k at the* Zps SiV * .1 • • yonr Bible r ’^es, Sethis is my dear goot Bible?’* In the conroe of conversuft^. tr.ie with the word Maosa ’ " so™ft'mea addressedwell known habit of.heN^ri » Mii“lcr* r',:tordl’”" to thefemetimes {Sir,’ as he was tfiiphr^^ “l til^Wf8t In^rs; and-he foie, word^3'^Z^S^S:-»( I- ) '’<’I aai glad,’ said I, 4to.see }oa so wai r^::pio^ed-It is a good sign, William.’•YfcsT Mass'?', r - ;a tliat.God is goot to t&c; but menever goot to God.’4 Me never tank him enough: me never pray to bunenough : me ac i ,m . i enough, who give me allhis goot tings. Mossa, me afraid my heart is very bat.Me wis.. me'was like you.’«Liho mo, William? Why, you are like me, apoor helpless sinner; that must, like yourself, p - L'1'ain his sins, unless God of his iminite mdrey an., grace,pluck him as a brand from tire burning, and tnaire himan instance of hhstiusrmshi ig love and favor. There isno difference /e have both come short of the glory e.God: all havTsinned.’‘No, me not like you Massa; me tmk noboay mmme, nobody feel such a heart as me.‘ Yes, William, your femlngs, I am persuaded, arelike those of every truly convinced soul, who sees meexceeding sinfulness of sin, and the greatness of the pricewhich Christ Jesus paid for. the sinner 's ransom. Y oucan say in the words of .the hymn,‘ I the d'.hf of s.nuers an,But Jesus died for me.’‘ O yes, Sir, me believe that Jesus die fer poor Negra.What would become of poor wioced Negro, if -.11 - tfor him. But h/die for the duet of emuers,and dat make my heart sometime quiet glao. .‘ What part of the Bible were you readiEg,* Me read how de man upon the cross spoke to Christ,and Christ spoke to him. Now dat mans P-V" ) ;do forme ‘Lord remember me. Lord, ivmemnpoor Negro sinner; this is my prayer ^ery morning,£,d sometime atnight too; when we oe^tr^rf^-,y words then me say the same again, Lorn lotnemcerpoor Negro sicner,’( 13 )«^id hi assaved, William, the Lord hears that pray¬er. He pardoned andacce pted the thief upon the crossand he will not reject you f he will in nowise cast outany that come to him.’‘ No Sir, I believe it: but there is so much am mmy heart, it make me afraid and sorry. Massa do yousee these limpets,* how fast they sticV. to the rocks here:Just so sin stick fast to my heart.’4 It may be - o, William: hut take another compari¬son : do you cleave to Jesus Christ by faith in his deathand righteousness, as those limpets cleave to the rock,and neither seas nor storms shall seperate you ircm luslove.’‘ Dat is just what me want.’‘Tell me, Wifnam, is not that very sin which youspeak of, a burden to you ? You do not love it: youwould be glad to obtain strength against it, and to befreed from it, would you not ?’‘O yes ; me give all this world, if me had it, to U-wlthout sin.’. ‘ Come»hen, and welcome to Jesus Christ, siy bcotner:.his blood cleanseth from all sin. He gave himself as aransom for dinners. He hath borne cur griefs and carriedour sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions; hewas bruised for cur iniquities; the chastisement of ourpeace was upon him, and with Ins stripes we are healed.The Lord hath .laid on him the iniquity of us all.•Come, freely, come to Jesus, the Saviour of sinners.’‘ Yes, Massa,’ said the poor fellow weeping, ‘ Mewill come ; but me come very slow: very slow, Massa ;me want to run, me want to tty. Jesus is very goot topoor Negro, to send you to tell him this.’* A. kind or' hull-fish which abounds in ;the place where-we were, and which sticks .to" vhe rocks w.th .•:;-.;ecJ«g.greatJorcc.14 ^truth? thlS 1S nCt thC £rSt tbie 7011 have heard th?se‘N°r tir’ th^y have been comfort to my soul manyas me ml? ^ ^ ^0t preach in America^? J°U !ast y--k at your house.’b™eU* n0W J hofe> William, that since God hasbeen so graciously pleased to open your eyes, and af¬fect your mind with such a great sense of Ids goodnesnxn giving his Son to die for your sake ; I hopefthat youvon^ i lT1-10 Keep his comrnaildments; I hopeL? fVV£ behaVe We31 t0 y°L,r Master and Mistress.trill He'thatis a Christian inwardly,vWlt h r “a?°uU-Wardl^ : hethat truly and s’a-^ bel“VeVn Christ, will .hew his faith by hisxvorks, as the Apostle says. J, it not so, William ?’f-1 Y M S11'’ me,Wa’i l° d° S0< Me want to be faith-the trrinlt^t'n^^y ^ bat SerVant me Was, beforethe goot tings of Jesus come to my heart. Me wish tot0 ”r Ma?“’ «*« I* «e me and when henot see me, for me know God always see me.Me know, eke if me sin against my own Alassa, me-sin against God, and God be very angry with me. Be-teU me°W Can 016 ^ ChriSt’ if me n0t cWhat Christ‘ Me love my fellow servants, though, as I tell youbefore, they not much love me, and 1 pray to God tobless them. And when they say bat things, and tryto maice me angrv, then me tink, if Jesus Christ werem poor Negro’s place, he would not revile and answerugain with bat words and temper, but he say little, andpray much. And so then, me say nothing at all, butpray God to forgive them.’The more I conversed with this African convert, themore satisfactory were the evidences of his mind beingspiritually enlightened, and his heart effectual! v wroughtupon by the grace of God. ' 6J continued for a considerable time in conversation( )with,the Negro, finding that his Master was gone fromhome for the day, and had given him liberty for Aomehour#. I spoke to him on the nature, duty and prr. i-lege of the Christian Baptism ; pointed out to himfiroma prayer-book which I had with me, the clear andScriptural principles of our own church upon that head,and found that he w as very desirous of conforming tothem. He appeared to me to.be well cualified for re¬ceiving tnat Sacramental pledge of his Redeemer’s love;and I rejoiced in the prospect of beholding him no lon¬ger a ‘stranger and foreigner, but a fellow-citizen withthe saints, and of the household of God.’*God,’ ssid I to him, ‘has promised to sprinkle ma¬ny nations,’ not only with the waters of baptism, butalso with the dews of his heavenly grace. He says,he will not only ‘pour water on him that is thirsty,’‘but 1 will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my bless-ing upon thine offspring.’ ‘ Yes, Massa,’ said he, ‘Hecan make me to be clean in heart, and of a right spirit:he can purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: hecan wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.’* Maj .God give you these blessings, and confirm youin every good gift.’I was much pleased with the affectionate manner inwhich he spoke of his parents, from whom he had beenstolen in his childhood; and his w ishes that God mightairect them by some means to the knowledge of a Sa¬viour.‘Who knows,’ I said, ‘but some of these ships maybe carrying a missionary to the country where theykve, to declare the good news of salvation to your coun¬trymen, and to your own dear parents in particular, ifthey are yet alive.’‘O ! my dear father and mother : my dear graciousSaviour ! exclaimed he, leaping from the ground as hespoke, if thou will but save their soul,;;, aud tell them•what thou hast done for sinners—buL,’ ( *6 )He stopped, and seemed much affected.‘My friend,’ said I, £ I will now pray with you foryour own soul, and for those of your parents also;’4 Do-> Massa, dat is very goot a id kind, do pray forpoor Negro souls here and every where.’This was a new and solemn 4 house of prayer.’ Thesea-sand was our floor, the heavens were our roof, thecliffs, the rocks, the hills, and the waves, formed thewalls of our chamber. It was not indeed a 4 place whereprayer was wont to be madei’ but for this once, it be¬came a hallowed spot: it will by me ever be remem¬bered as such. The presence ofdod was there Iprayed.—The Negro wept—His heart was full. * Ifelt with him and wept likewise.The last day will shew, whither onr tears were notthe tears of sincerity and Christian love..It was time for my return, I leaned npon his arm as' we ascended the steep cliff in my way back to my horse,which I had left at the top of the hill. Humanity andthankfulness were marked in his countenance. I'lean¬ed upon his arm with the feelings' of a bintker. It wasa relationship I was ha-ppy to own.—I took him by thehand at parting, appointed one more interview previousto the day of baptizing him, and bid, him farewell forthe present.‘God bless you, my dear Massa.’< li yPART III.rl IiE interesting and afrectig conversation which I hadwith the Negro Servant, produced a sensation noteasy to be expressed. As I returned home, I was 1edinto meditation on the singular clearness and beauty ofthose evidencies of faith and conversion to God, whichI had just seen and heard. How plainly, I thought, itappears, thatsaivation is freely obtained by gracethroughfaith : and that not of ourselves, it is the gift of God :not of works, lest any man should boast. What butthe Hqly Spirit, who is the author and giver of the lifeof grace, could have wrought such a change from theonce dark, perverse and ignorant heathen, to this nowconvinced, enlightened, humble and believing Christian;How manifest is the uncontrouled sovereignty of the ciwvine will excercised in the cdiling and translating of sin¬ners from darkness to light ! what a lesson may the no-minal Christian of a civilized country sometimes learnfrom the simple, sincere religion of a converted heathen!I aicerwards made particular inquiry into this youngman’s domestic and general deportment. Every thingI heard was satisfactory : nor could I entertain a doubtrespecting the consistency of his conduct and character.I had some further conversation with him, in the courseof which 1 pursued such apian of Scriptural instructionand eiamination, as I conceived to be most suitable tohis .progressive state of mind. He improved much inreading, carried his Ilible constantly in hts pocket, andtook every opportunity, which his duty to his master’sservice would aHow, for pemsihg 'u I have frequent¬ly had an occasion to observe, that amongst the religiouspoor, who have not had the advantage of learnineg. t'oread in early youth, a concern about the soul, ai}d°ci?»( 18 )sire to know the word n+' C'nA i,motives for their ear ‘ + ’ ,^aYe Proved effectualpurpose of reUvii^conv T W^re he .lived’ for theer H-n/irwr /'ll ' ^Hversation, mstructiotn. and pray-be very desirfb e te t t fu ^herS’ 1 ‘t wouldthere mith be 6 - ^ N^10 there’ in that»I.o»Ta°Se,0„ S;nedPh,S maSler’! lc™ th« ^d me to one of my cottae-e assemblies. AsI approached the house; I saw my friend the Neero sii-tmg under a tree, and waiting my arrival. He held inff , nd a ]Jttle tract which I had -iven him; his Br-bie la7 °.!1 the ground. He rose with much cheerful¬ness, saying,‘Ah ! Massa, me very glad to see you, me tiuk youtong ume coming.’ , J‘ W.1^lam’ 1 h°Pe y°a are well, I am going to takei ihl'J ™eJ,tofatlewTof T7 7ka^ who’ 1 hoDe are al-t f- ~rn jS the Lord. We meet every Wednesdayevening for conversation about the things that belono-to our everlasting peace, and I am sure you will be awelcome visitor.’‘ Massa me not goot enough to be with such goofpeople. Me great sinner. They be goot Christian.’‘ it you were to ask them, William, they would eachW y°u they were worse than any body. Many of themwere opce, and that not -.ery long ago, living, :n a.veryopenly sinful manner, ignc . ant of God, and the enemiest nS- Vhough; deed. But Divine GracethC^ W^Cd COUrSe’ and SLlbdlled tbeirhearts to the love and obedience of him and his Gospel.You wiH only meet a company of poor fellow-sinners:who love to speak and smg the praises of redeem:love: and I am Sure W^iam, thatis a song you will bewilling to join them in.* b J 1 DeSir’ ^ Tg j-USt do for Po"r William/By this time we had arrived at the cottage gardengate Several well-known faces appeared inand nearthe house, and'the smile of affection welcomed us as weIfftfe-or- ] Tv kn°W-1 that the NeSro was to visit theittle ,J0CietJ thls evening, and satisfaction beamed inSceTi enanCe’ t0°k him ^ tL'; h^d and in¬troduced him among them, saying, G have brought abrother from Africa to see you. my friends. Bid himvrelcome m the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.Sir, said a humble and pious labourer, whose heartand tono-ue alwavs overfloT^j —n- -<•’ • • -" —o „ y ,   vviLn vmnstian Kindnessr,Vv e are at ail times glad to see our dear minister, butespecially so to day in such company asyou have broughtwith you. We have heard how gracious the Lord hasbeen to him. Give me your hand, good friend (turn¬ing to the Negro) God be with you here and everywhere ; and blessed be his Holy Name for calling wick¬ed sinners, .as I hojie he has done you and me, to loveand serve him for his mercy’s sake.’Each one greeted him as he came into the house, andsome addressed him in very kind awl impressive lan¬guage.i Massa,’ said he, 4 me not know what to say to alldese goot friends} me tink this look like little heavenupon earth.’He then with tear# in his eyes, v hich almost beforehe spc-xie, brought responsive drops into those cfallpre-said, 4goot fric-eds and brethera in Christ Jesus,.( 29. )Got b!e's you all, and bring you to heaven at last/It was my ■t-’ted cu tom, when I net to converse';witn tho e friend , to begin with prayer, and reading aportion ef the Scripture .When this was ended, I told the people present thatthe providence.of Gad had brought this* young man fora time under my ministry: and that finding him eery'seriou ly dispo. ed, and believing him to be very sincere :in his religious.profession, I had resolved on baptizinghim, agreeable to his own wishes. I added, that I hadnov/ brought him with me to join in Christian conver¬sation with us: for, as in old times, they that fearedthe Lord »pake often one to another a* te timony thatthey thought upon his name, (Mai. iii. 16.) sol hopedwe were fulfilling a Christian and brotherly duty inthu' assembling for mutual education.Addremng my elf to the Negro, I aid, ‘William,tell me, who made you ?’‘Get, the goot Father.’ *‘ Who redeemed you ? ’‘ Jo us, his dear Son who died for me.’* Who sanctified you ?t„ ‘1b® Holy Ghost, who teach me to know the Voct.father, and his dear Son Je us.’‘ What wa your state by nature ?’4 wicked sinner, me know rioting but sin, medo noting but dn, my strti! more black tan my body.’< Has any change taken place in you since then?’4 Me hope so,'Massa i but me sometimes afraid no/'‘ If you are changed, who changed your’‘Got the Father; Jesus his dear Son; and Get the :Holy Spirit.’‘How was any change brought about in you ?’‘Got made me a slave when me was a young littleboy.’‘ How, William, would you say Godxnade youa slave ? '*No? Ma#$a, no : me mean God fet me be made a 1( 21 )slave by white man to do me goot.!‘ Hov to do you good ?’‘He tL-ke me from the land of darkness, and bringme to the land of light.’‘Which do you call the land of light: the West In¬dia Islands ?’‘No, Massa, they be the land of Providence, but A-merica be the land of light to me : for there rfie firsthear goot minister preach. And now this place, where1 am now, is the land of more light: for here yon teachme more and more how goct Jesus is to sinners.’‘ What does the blood of Christ do ?’4 It cleanse from, all sin. And so me hope from mysin.’‘Are then all men cleansed from sin by his blood?’4 Oh, no, Massa.’‘Who are cleansed and saved?’4 Those that have faith in him.’4 Can you prove that out of your Bible ?’4 Yes, Sir, ‘he that believeth in the Son, hath ever¬lasting life; and he that believeth not the Son, shall notsee life,but the vvrathofGodabidethin him.’ John hi. 36.4 What is it to have faith ?’4 Me suppose that is to tink much about Jesus Christ,to love him much, to believe all he says to be true, topray to him very much ; and when me feel very weakand very sinful, to tink that he is very strong and verygoot, and aH that for my sake.’4 And have you such a faith as you describe ?’4 Oh, Massa, me tink sometimes me have no faith atall.’4 Why so, William ?’4 When me want to tink about Jesiis Christ, my mindrun about after other things: when me want to love himmy heart seem quite cold: when me want to believeall to fcc true, what he sa_, s to sinners, me then tink itis net true for me: when me want to pray, the devil put( 22 )bat, very bat thoughts into me anH mChrist enough. Now all this * never taiI have no faith.' Ae mtlol £^1“ Ver3' «W of attention and f,•hfta" ir„““rDces presen* “hc •*.JX t:,faTJha'L“me a few more questions.’ ^ AnSliVyour own thought and doing ” ■ d 1il>‘a°ds^;t0“»gVCh’hen “e ,W"k ^^'IVbTh^s^r “ Am“^ *»‘Got, very certainly.’fedi^fa St'11’6 WOTk °f ~ ‘Vogh, anof dU g°0t GOt ’ me C°uld noi do ft myself, me sux‘Doyor not think that Jesus Christ and his salvatiois the o„e thing most needful and most desirable?’Oh ! yes me q**e sure cf that.’4 Oo you not believe that he is able to save you ?’^ Yes he is able to save to the uttermost,’t j°U think he 15 not wming to save you ?’kind to saTr •hat- He S° S004’ SO ™rcifel, s<to him!’ 7 WlU “ n° Wa>’S cast ol’t :in7 that connJfeSiv* “'***•and s,rive tok«phis “”><me wS ^ h“”“.me ,OT<! him’ ”d ttacal! A'u i do sof8 t0 SUff<'r f°r h‘S sake’if 0«4dUttU‘Me do link I could die for the love of him; he not( 23.tmk it too much i* die for wickedwicked i inner tink It too much to d,V f '' Wnj saouldrighteous a Saviour ?’ d C for so S001 andWilUam- «%most aifectionate anxiety to a]l°thT‘ WIth theOM of1 f^ee, Sir, that tho some men are v idle or,;are black, true Christianitv ;« all te» anao/uf“ S“1^ «-«' -dW every pa„now praise God, for the rich 7 ' 1 fld’ Let us•“* gra“’ s!nS hl">" of ‘ reSSg 1‘kf 1 0fKowbe^in the heavenly rheme.,‘ • 5S ai°ud Jn !esu s na^,. &cpSiS5te~~sass5th verse was endel, “ u,t'red- Whea the>wn to p»®r William t' “de^ming love bring liimTheiiow;^ redoomi„g love.-conclusion ; ' added* ?-nd sung by way( 24 )Ses, a strap »cr comes to view;Thongh he 9 * bUcK, he’s comeljr toolCom- to join the choirs above,. Singing of redeeming love.Welcome, Negro we'come here, ?Banish Aoubt ani banish fear; •Y«tj, ^ho-Christ’s salvation'prove, ^Praise* and bles» redeeming love.I concluded with some remarks on the- nature of sal¬vation by grace, and exhorted all present to press for¬ward in the heavenly race. It was an evening, thecircumstances of which had they never been recorded onearth, were yet doubtless registered in the book 'pf re¬membrance above. *In a few days the Negro was batized ; ana uot K>.ngafter he went on a voyage with his Master.Since that time I have not been able to hear any tid-rngs^ of him ; whether he yet wander’s as a pilgrim inthis'lower world, or whether he has joined the heaven¬ly choir in the song of redeeming love in glory, I knoyrnot. This I -do know, he was a monument of the Lord’spraise. He bore the impression of the Saviour’s imageon his heart, and exhibited the marks of convertinggrace ip his life and conversation^ with .singular simpli¬city and unfeigned sincerity.! O! give to God the'>Glory.* Song of SoiomBn, i. S*THE END,Edinburgh : J# Morrea, printer.