THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLothian Tom,IN FIVE PARTS. *WHEREIN IS CONTAINED, •A Collection of Diverting Exploits,done Iry him, both in Scotlandand England.FALKIRK:FAIXTED FOR THE BOOKSBLLEAS.THECOMICAL TRICKSOFLOTHIAN TOM.THIS Thomas Black, vulgarly calledLothian Tom, because he was of thatcountry, was born about four miles RomEdinburgh j his father being a wealthyfarmer, gave him a good education, whichhe was very awkward in receiving, beinga very wild, misc eivous boy.When he was about ten years of age,he was almost killed by the stroke of ahorse's foot, which his father bad, who hadhad a trick ^f kicking at every personthat came behind him. But when Tomgot heal of the dreadful woun^> whereofmany thought he would have died. To beeven with the horse, he gets a clog, orpiece of tree which was full of woodenpins, such a thing as the shoema/rers useto soften their leather on, and with a ropehe tied it to the couple-bank in the stabledirectly opposite to the horse’s tail, thensgets on the bank, and gives it a swing,so that the pikes in the end of it, camewith full drive against the horse’s back¬side,which made him fling, and the morehe flung and struck at it, it rebounded -back and struck him again ; the battlested with great fury for a lon^ time,lewhich was good fun for Tom, until hisfather hearing some noice, in the stable,came in to know the matter, and wassurprised to see the poor animal tanninghis own hide, with his legs all cut andbloody ! he cut the rope and the battlewas ended ; but the poor horse wouldnever afterwards kick at any thing thatcame behind him-It happened one day that Tom wenta-fishing, and brought home a few smallfish, which his grandmothers cat snoptup in the dark. So Tom, to have justiceof the cat for so doing, catches her, andputs her into a little tub, or cog, thensets her adrift in a small mill-dam, order¬ing her to go a fishing for herself; thensets two or three dogs upon her, and amost terrible sea fight ensued, as everwas seen on fresh water ; for if anyof the dogs, when attempting to boardher, set up their noses, baudrins came fly ¬ing that place, to repulse them with herclaws; then the vessel was like to be4overset by the weight of herself so shehad to flee to the other, and finding thesame there from thence to the middle, ' |where she sat mewing always turningherself about, combing their noses with [her foot. The old woman being inform’dJ of the dangerous situation of her dearlybeloved cat, came running with a longpole to beat off the dogs and haul herashore. What now, says Tom, If you begoing to take part with my enemies, youshall have part of their reward; then givesi the old woman such a push that she tumb¬led into the dam o\er head and ears,i beside her beloved cat, and would un¬doubtedly have perished in the water, had| not one of the people who was there look¬ing at the diversion, come to her relief.After this Tom was sent to school; tokeep his hand out of an ill turn ; andhavingan old cankered, crab-wittedfellowfor Ins dominie, they were always at vari.ance; for if Tom had got his whips, whichhe often deserved, he was sure to be re¬venged upon his master again for it. So'■ Tom perceiving his master had a close-stool in a little closet within the school,where he went and eased himself whenneed was: Tom gets a penny-worth ofgun-powder, and sprinkled it on theground directly before the seat, and lays5a littie of it along in a train to the firo*sule ; then perceiving when his masterwentinto it, and as he was loosing downhis breeches, sets fire to the train, whichblew if all about his master’s backsidewhich scorched him terribly, besidesthe fright, for which Tom was severelywhipt. Yet, in a little after, he began tostudy j evenge on his master.So it happened one day as Tom was inthe master’s house,^his wife wss stoop¬ing into a big .meal-barrel, to bring outsome meal; there he takes her by the feet,and coups her up into the barrel with berhead down and her bare b—side upper¬most *, then runs into the school,.cryi >gO master 1 master! the de’il’s looking outo’ your meal-stand’; wi’^afat face, and ablack ill-fat’d mouth ; yon’s just AuldNick if he be living. So tire master ranout with all speed he could, for to seewhat it was ; and found it to be his ownwife, speechless, and almost smotheredto death ; but as she could not tell whodid it, Tom got clear off; yet he was notsatisfied without some more vengeance onthe old fellow : and knowing his masterhad a fashion, when he was going to whipthe boyr5 if they would not loose theirbreeches willingly, he drew his knife and«ut them through the waistband behind :♦•So Tom goes to a butcher, and gets aIt raw pudding, and fills it with blood and• ■ water, and puts it within the waistbandof his breeches, then goes to school theI next day, and as his master was sittingwith his back to the fire, Tom lights aj piece of paper, and sets his wig in a low,| which burnt for some time unperceived, -j until the tlames came fizzing about his| ears; he first put out the flames by-trampling on the wig, and being inform-; ed that Tom did it, flies to him in a rageordering him to loose his breeches, butTom told him he was never so mad. —; Then he drew his knife, whips poor Tom(over his knee, and with a great strugglecuts the waistband of his bieeches ; butthro’ pudding and all, so that the bloodI gushed out, and Tom cried out. MurderMurder i Murder! and down he fell.The poor Dominie ran out of the schoolcrying and wringing his hands. Wordflew about that l<e was slicked by the Do¬minie, which made the people come run¬ning from several parts ot the country,round about to see how it w'as: but upon| searching him, they found the emptypudding, which discovered all thefraud. Then two men had to get horsesand ride after the poor Dominie, whohad by this time got two or three miles7away; and when he saw them riding1 afterhim, crying to stop and come back again,he ran the faster, until he could runbo more, but fell down on the road., andprayed them to let him go, for, if he wastaken back, he was sure to be hanged :and would not be persuaded that Tomwas alive, until they forced him back,and he saw him. But he would be Tom’steacher no longer ; so Tom’s father hadto seek another master for him.BART II.There was a young woman servantto Tom’sfather, whom Tom had offendedby some of his tricks, and she, to be up |with Tom again, one night spread a hand¬ful of short nettles in his bed, betweenthe sheets which stung his legs and thighsso much, that he was obliged to quit hisbed lor some part of the night; for spchhe resolved to be revenged, whenevera proper opportunity offered. It happen¬ed in a few days after, that she was in¬vited to a wedding, where the dancing& diversion induced her to stay all night; Sand on coming home on the morning, shefell a-washing some clothes. But being8fatigueo with her night’s diversion and ffor want of rest, fell fast asleep with her bhands extended in the tub, and standing kon her fee*, with her belly leaning on the stub ; Tom perceiving this, slips her pet- -ticoat and smoke over her head, facing |tthe high way ; several people passing by» >while she continued in this posture, some ■of them were diverted with the sight, andothers were ashamed at it; but a poorcadger had the misfortune to be coming |that way at thetime, and his horse taking |fright at this unusual sight, threw off hiscreels, and broke the poor man’s eggs jall to smash ; which so enraged him thathe lashed her buttucks with his whip, insuch an unmerciful manner, that with thesmart and shame together she had not| the least inclination to sleep for theremaining part of the day.I Tom being grown up to years andage of a man, tiicughf himself wiser andslyer then his father : and there were jseveral thing about the house which he |liked better than to work ; so he turnedto he a dealer amongst brutes, a cowperof horses and cows, &c. and even wetware, amorist the brewers, and brandyshops, until he cowped himself to thetoom halter, and then his parents would9supply him no more. He knew his gi-nd-mother had plenty of’ money, but shewould give him none; but the old womanhad a good black cow other own, whichTom went to the fields one evening andcatches, and takes her to an old, wastehouse which stood at a distance from anyother, and there he kept her two or threedays, giving her meat and drink atnig'htwhen it was dark, and made the oldwoman believe somebody had stolen thecow for their winter’s mart, which wasgrief enough to the old woman, for theloss of her cow. However she employs tTom to go to a fair that was near by,and buy her another: she gives him threepounds which Tom accepts of very thank- %fully, and promises to by her 0ne as likethe other as possibly he could get; then hetakes a piece of chalk, and bray? it assmall as meal, and steeps it in a little, water, and therewith, rubs over the cow’s;ace and back, which made her baith jbrucket and rigget. So Tom, in themorning, takes the cow to a public housewithin a little of the fair, and left her tilltne fair was over, and then drives herhome before him ; and as soon as thevcame homo, the cow began to ropt as sheused to do, which made the old womanto rejoice, thinking it was her own cow( 1° )sn warlocks, de’ils, brownies and fairies!Welj a wat that is true, laid I, and that thoulhalt krnow, thou hard-hearted wretch, whowould have people to ftarve, or provokethem to Ileal. With that I rofs, and liftstwa. or three long draws, and cafting knotson them, into the byre I went, and throwsa knotted draw to every cow’s flake, faying.Thy days lliall not be long ! — The wifefollowed, wringing both her hands, earneillypraying for herfelf and all that was hers.—I then came out at the door, and lifted aHone,-running three times round about, andthrew it over the houfe, muttering fomewords -which I knew not myfelf, and con¬cluding with thefe words. Thou MonfteurDiable, brother to Beelzebub, god of Ekron,take this wife’s kirn, butter and tuilk, fapand fubllance, without and within, lo thatfhe may die in miferyy as ihe would haveothers to live.—The wife the aforefaid fen-tence, clapt her hands; and called out anotherold woman as foolifh as hprfeif, who camecrying after us to come back. Back v/ewent, where fhe made us eat 'heartily cibutter and cheefe ; then fhe.earneuly pleatltdwith me to go and lift my cantrups, whichI did,_ upon her promiung never to deny ahungry traveller meat ns>r drink, whetherthey had money to pay for’t or not; and'never to fervethe poor with the old.proverb.Go home to your own pa/iih; but give them11father and mother. The wright askedhim how he did ; he answered him, Verysoberly, he had lost a good dutiful motherlast night, and there’s a measure for thecoffin. Tom went out and staid for sometime, and then comes in again, and tellsthe wright he did not know what to do,for his father had ordered him to getmoney from such a man, whom he named,and he that day was gone out of town.—The wright asked him how much hewanted ? To which he answered, a guineaand a-half. Then Tom give him strictorders to be out next day against eleveno’clock with the coffin, and he should gethis money altogether. So Tom set off toaa ale-house with the money, and Jivedwell while it lasted. Next morning thewright and his two lads went out with thecoffin ; and as they were going into thehouse they met Tom’s mother, who askedthe master how he did, and where he wasgoing with that fine coffin ? Not knowingwell what to say, being surprised to seeher alive, at last he told her, that her sonbrought in the measure the day before,and had got a guinea and a half from him,with which he said he was to buy somenecessaries for the funeral. O the rogue!said she, has he play’d me that ? So thewright got his lent money, and so muchfor his trouble, and had to take back, his coffin with him again.Tom being shore of money, began| think how he could raise a fresh supply :' so he went to the port amongst the shear¬ers, and there he hired about thirty of| them, and agreed to give them a wholeweek’s shearing at tenpence a-day, whichwas twopence higher than any had gotj that year; this made the poor shearersthink he was a very honest, generous andgenteel master, as ever they met with ;; for he took them all into an ale house,I and gave them a hearty breakfast. NowI says Tom when there is so many ofjoutogether, and perhaps from very differentparts, and being acquainted with one-I another, l do not know hut there may besome of you honest men, and some of yourogues; and as you are all to lie in onebarn together, any of you who has somemoney, you’ll he surest to give it to meand I’ll mark it down in my hook, withyour names, and what I recievefrom eachof you, and you shall have it all againon Saturday night when you receive yourwages. O! very well goodman, there’smine, take mine said every one faster thananother. Some gave him five, six, sevenand eight shillings even all that they hadearn’d thro’ the harvest, which amounted13to near seven pounds sterling. So Tomhaving got all their money, he goes onwith them till about three miles out oftown and coming to a field of standingcorn tho’ somewhatgreen,yet convenientfor his purpose, as it lay at some distancefrom any house: so he made them beginwork there, telling them he was goingto order dinner for them, and send hisown servants to joia them. Then hesets off with all the speed he could buttakes another road into the town lest theyshould follow and catch him. Now whenthe people to whom the corn belonged,sawsuch a band in their field they couldnot understand the meaning of it: so theTarmei whose corn it was, went off cryingalways, as he ran to them, to stop : butthey would not, untill he began to strikeat them, and they at him, he beiug ina great passion, as the corn was not fullyripe; at last, by force of argument, andother people coming up to them the poorshearers were convinced they had gotthe bite, which caused them to go away,• sore lamenting their misfortune.Two or three days thereafter,as Tomwas going down Canongate in Edinburghhe meets one of his shearers, who knew& kept fast by him, demanding back hismoney, and alsa satisfaction for the rest14Whisht, whisht, says Tom, and you’ll getyours and something else beside. So Tomtakes him into the jail, and calls for abottle of ale and a dram, then takes thejailor aside, as if he had been going toborrow some money from him ; and saysto the jailor. This man is a great thief,I and other two have been in search ofhim these three days, and the other twomen have the warrant with them ; so ifyou keep this rogue here till I run andbring them, you shall have a guinea inreward. Yes. says the jailor, go and I’llsecure the rogue for you. So Tomgot efiileaving the poor innocent fellow and thejailor struggling together, and then setsout for England directly.PART IV.Tom having now left his own nativecountry, went into the county of Nor¬thumberland, where he hired himself toan old miser of a farmer, where he con¬tinued for several years, performing hisduty in his service very well, tho’ some¬times playing roguish tricks on those abouthim ; but hismasterhada naughty customhe would allow them no candle at nightto see with when at supper. So Tom one15night sets himself next his master, andas they were all about to fall on, Tonaputs his spoon into the heart of the dish,where the crowdy was hottest, and clap*a spoonful into his masters mouth. A poxon you for a rogue, cried h's master, formy mouth is all burnt. A pox on you fora master, says Tom, for you keep a houseas dark as Purgatory, for as I was goingmy own mouth with the soup, and miss’dthe way, it being so dark, don’t thinkmaster, that I am such a big fool as tefeed you, while I have a mouth of my own.So from the night that Tom buint hismaster’s mouth with the hot crowdy, theyalways got a candle to shew them lightat supper, foy his master would feed nomore in the dark while Tom was present.There was a servant girl in the house,who always when she made the beds, ne¬glected to make Tom’s, and would havehim to do it himself. Well, then saysTom, I have harder work to do, and Ishall do that too. So next day when Tomwas at the plow, he saw his master com¬ing from the house towards him, he leftthe horses and the plow standing in thefield, and goes away towards his master.Who cried, what is wrong ? or is thereany thing broke with you ? No no saysTom, but I am going home to make my16bed, it has not been made these twoweeks, and now it is about the time themaid makes all the rest, so I’ll go, andmake mine too. No, no says his master£0 to your plow, and I’ll cause it to bemade every night. Then, says Tom,I’ll plow two or three furrows more, inthe time, so Tom gained his end.One day a butcher came and boughta fine fat calf from Tom’s master: andTom laid it on the horse’s neck, beforethe Butcher; When he was gone; Now,says Tom, what will you hold master, butI’il steal the calf from the butcher beforehe goes two miles off? Say’s his masterI’il hold a guinea you don’t. Done, saysTom, Into the house he goes, & takesa .good shoe of his master’s and runs ano¬ther way across a field, till he got beforethe Butcher, near the corner of a hedge,where there was an open and turning ofthe "way; here Tom darns himself behindthe hedge, and throws the shoe into themiddle of the highway; so, when theButcher came up riding, with his calfbefore him, Hey, said he to himselfthere’s a good shoe ! if I knew how toget on my calf again, I would light for itbut what signifies one shoe without itsneighbour? So on he rides and lets it !y.17Tom then slips out and takes up the shoeand runs aeross the fields, until he gotbefore the Butcher, at another open ofa hedge, about half a mile distant, audthrows out the shoe again on the middleof the road; then up comes the Butcherand seeing'it, says to himself; now I shall :have a pair of good shoes for the lifting;and down he comes, lays the calf on theground, and tying his horse to the hedge,runs back thinking to get the other shoe,in which time, Tom whips up the calfaud shoe, and home he comes demandinghis wager, which his master could notrefuse, being so fairly won. The poorButcher, not finding the shoe, came backto his horse, and mising the calf, knewnot what to do; but thinking it hadbrokethe-rope from about its feet, and had runinto the fields, the Butcher spent the day-in search of it, amongst the hedges andditches, and returned to Tom’s fnasterV 1ail night, intending to go in search againfor it next day ; and gave them a tediousrelation how he came to lose it by a curs¬ed pair of shoes, which he believed thedevil had dropped in his way, and takenthe calf and shoes along with him ; buthe was thankful he had left his old horseto carry him home. Next morning Tom Iset to work, and makes a fine white facebrings it out and sells it to the butcher ;| which was g’ood diversibn to his masterand other servants to see the butcher buyhis own calf again. No sooner wTas heI gone with it, but Tom says. Now, master,what w ill you hold but I’ll steal it fromhim again, ere he goes two miles of? Nono, say his master FJ1 hold no more betsf with you ; but I’ll give you a shilling ifyou do it. Done says Tom, it shall cost1 you no more ; and away he runs throughthe fields, until he came before the but-{ cher, hard by the place where he stolethe calf from him the day before; andthere he lies down behind the hedge, and!as the butcher came past, he put his handon his mouth, and cries bawr, baw, likea calf. The butcher hearing this, swearsto himself, that there was the calf he hadlost the day before : down he comes, and| throws the calf on the ground, gets thro’the hedge in all haste, thinking he had nomore to do but to take it up ; but as hecame in at one part of the hedge, TomI jumped out at another, and gets the calfon his back ; then goes over the hedgeon the other side, and thro’ the fields hecame safely home, with the calf on hisback, while the poor butcher spent histime and labour in vain, running from!hedge to hedge, and hole to hole, seekingl the calf. So the butcher returned to hishorse again, and finding his other calf^one, he concluded that it was done bysome invisible spirit, about that spot ofground, ; and so went home lamentingthe loss of his calf. When Tom got homelie washed the white face off the stolencalf, and his master sent the butcherword to come & buy another calf, whichhe accordingly did a few days after, andTom sold him the same calf a third timeand then told him the whole affair as itwas acted, giving him bis money again.So the butcher got fun for his trouble.PART V.There was an old rich blind woman,who lived hard by, that had a young girlher only daughter, who fell deep in lovewith Tom, and he fell as deep in lovewith the money, but not with the maid.The old woman gave Tom many presentsand mounted him like a gentleman ; buthe used every method to put off the mar¬riage, pretending he still wanted some¬thing, which the old woman gave thegomoney to purchase for him, until he hadgot about thirty pounds of her money &then she would delay the marriage nolonger. Tom then took tha old womanand girl aside, and made the following japology : Madam, said he, 1 am verywilling to wed with my dear Polly, forshe appears as an angel in my eyes, butI am sorry, very sorry to acquaint you,that I am not a fit match for her. Whatchild, says the old woman, there is nota fitter match in the whole world for myPolly, I did not think your country couldafford such a clever youth as what 1 hearof you to be, you shall neither want goldnor silver, nor a good horse to ride uponand when 1 die, you shall have my all,O but says Tom; Madam that’s notthe thing, the stop is this; When 1 wasin Scotland^ I got a stroke from a hor¬se’s foot, on the bottom of the belly,which has quite disabled me below, thatI cannot perform a husbands duty in bedThen the old woman clapt her hands &fell a-crying, O ! if it had been any im¬pediment but that, but that, but that wofu* that! which gold & silver cannot pur¬chase, and yet the poorest people, thatis common beggars, have plenty of it.The old wife & her daughter sat cryingand wringing their hands, & Tom stoodtiand wept lest he should get no more mo¬ney. O said Polly, mother, I’ll wed himnevertheless, I love him so dearly! Noyou foolish girl, said her mother, wouldyou marry a man and die a maid ? Youdon’t know the end of your creation ; itis the enjoyment of a man in bed, thatmakes women to marry, which is a plea¬sure like Paradise, and if you wed thisman you will live^nd die, and never feelit. Hoo, Hoo, 8ay« Tom, if I had gotmoney, I needed not been this way tillnow. Money you fool, said the old wo¬man, there’s not such a thing to be gotfor money in all England. Ay, says tomthere’s a doctor in Newcastle, will makeme askable as any other man for ten gui¬neas. Ten guineas, said she, 1’li give himfifty guineas if he will, but here is twelveand go to him directly, and see what hecan do, and then come again and wed mychild or she and I will both die for thysake. Tom having now got twelve gui¬neas more of their money, got all thingsready, and early next morning, set outlor Newcastle, but instead of going therehe came to old Scotland, and left Pollyand her mother to think upon him. Inabout two weeks thereafter, when hewas not like to return, nor so much asany word from him, the old woman ani22Polly got ahorse, and came to Newcastlein search of him, went thro’ all the doc.tors* shops, asking, if there came a youngman there, about two weeks ago, with abroken — to mend ? Some laughed ather, others wrere like to kick her out ofdoors ; so they had to return, withoutgetting any further intelligence of him.Now, after Tom’s return to Scotland,he got a wife, and took a little farm nearDalkeith,and became a very douse man,for many years, following his old businessthe couping horses and cows, and feedingveals for slaughter, and the like. Hewent one day to a fair and bought a linecow from an old woman ; but Tom judg¬ed, from the lowness of the price, thatthe cow had certainly some very greatfaults, Tom gives the Wife the otherhearty bicker of ale, then says he Gude-wife, the money is yours, and the eow ismine, ye maun tell me ony wee faults ithas. Indeed says the goodwife, she has naa faut but ane, and if she wanted it, Iwad never a parted wi’ her. And what’sthat goodwife, said he. Indeed said she,the filthy daft beast sucks ay hersel’. Butsays Tom, if that be all, I’ll soon cureher of that. O ! can ye do’t, said she if £had kent what wad a don’t I wadna soldher. A-well says Tom, I’ll tell you what23to do ; tak the price I gave you just no"and tye it hard and fast in your napkin,and give it to me, through beneath theco"’s wame, and I’ll give you the napkinagain ower the cows back, and I’ll laymy life for it, that she’ll never suck her-sei in my aught. I "at weel said she, I’sedo that, an’ there shou’d be witchcraftin’t. So Tom got it thro’ below the cowtwame, he takes out his money, and gavethe wife her napkin over the cow’s back,as he promised, saying. Now, wife, youhave your cow, and I my money, and shewill never suck herself in my aught, as Itold you. O dole dole i cried the wife,is that your cure ? you’ve cheated me,you’ve cheated me.Tom being very scarce of money onetime when his rent was to pay and tho’ hewas well acquainted with the butcher’s inEdinburgh, and tried several of them,yet none of them would lend him as muchhe was known to be such a noted sharper.So Tom contrived a clever trick, to givethem all the bite in general, who had thusrefused him: In he comes next day, (forthey had all heard of the fine calf he wasfeeding.) and tells one of the butcher’swho dealt with him that he was going tosell the fat calf he had at home. Well said24the Butcher, and waht will you have forit? Just thirty five shillings, says Tom,-No says the Butcher, but by what I hearof it I'll give you thirty,.Na, says Tomyou must remember, that it is not theprice of it, but you may give me twentyshillings just now and send out your ladto morrow, and we 11 perhaps agree aboutit. Thus Tom went through ten of themin one day, and got twenty shillings fromeach of them, and kept his speech a-gainst the law, for whatever they offer’dhim for his calf he told them to remem¬ber, that was not to be the price of it,but give me twenty shillings just now,&send your lad to morrow, and perhaps wewill agree, was all that passed. So Tomwent home with his ten pounds and paidhis rent. Early next morning, the flesh-ers came to Toms house for the calf andevery one called for his calf, but Tomhad only one to serve them all. Nowsays Tom. whoever will give most, andspeidiest will have it, 1 will put it to aroup. What said one of them, my mas¬ter bought it yesterday. Then said TomYou would be a great fool to buy it today, for it is fashous to lead, and heavyto carry.FINIS.