THBHISTORYOFTHE BLACK DOUGLAS.WITH AN ACCOUNT OFTHE BATTLE OF OTTERBURN“ Hosts have been known at that dread sound to yield,And Douglas dead, bis namo has won the field."Gt .•% S G O WsPUBLISHED n FRANCIS ORR & SONS.163OF S.C0TLANPB URy 5: o '.v a •: i«,« a j 0:10 axbAja hht^6 T*WO‘nA fA 'HTV^ '»baanR l." ' iaili in rr/.\ ■ rr Nr- 'f B H ^*T#ro»«^Ji s»JZ03 « 55.30 friO TAfn t* <M:i3IjaU‘l8?t£THE HISTORYOFTHE BLACK DOUGLAS.In the annals of Scotland, no name has been morecelebrated for valour and enterprise than that ofDouglas. They themselves boast that their lineis so ancient, that no person can point out the firstman that originally elevated the family. “ Youmay see us in the tree,” they say, “ you cannotdiscover us in the twig; you may see us in thestream, you cannot trace us to the fountain.”Historians however relate, that the family tookits rise during the reign of one of the ancient kingsof Scotland, and, at a time when the country wasinvaded by Donald Bain, Lord of the WesternIsles. In a great battle with this powerful chief¬tain, the Scots were on the point of giving way,when a man of tall stature and noble asjiect madehis appearance, accompanied with his two sons.They boldly confronted the victorious enemy, andby words and example so encouraged those thatfled, that the Scots took heart, and altera desper¬ate struggle, Donald Bain was defeated and him¬self slain. After this unexpected victory, inquirywas made for the man who had performed thisnoble deed, when he was pointed out to the kingas Sholto dhu glasse, which, in the Celtic tongue,means, “ See yonder dark grey man."^HE BLACK DOUGLAS.Sir James Douglas, commonly called theGood Lord James, was born about the year 1278,and was the son of William the Hardy, or LongLeg, one of the associates of Sir William Wallacein the struggle made by that hero against the en¬croachments of Edward the First. After manychanges of fortune, he was at last made prisoner,and carried into England, accompanied by hisson. He died in prison, and when his son JamesDouglas returned to Scotland, he found the castleof Douglas, and all his father’s lands, in the pos¬session of the English Lord Clifford, on whomthey had been bestowed by Edward as the re¬ward of his services against the Scots.Destitute of money and friends, and filled withgrief at the misfortunes of his country, he soughtrefuge with the Archbishop of St. Andrew’s, hismother’s brother. The old Prelate received himkindiy, and promised to apply to Edward in hisbehalf.King Edward had by this time made himselfmaster of the greater part of the strong places inScotland, and was then at Stirling. Thither wentthe good Archbishop, carrying the young Douglasalon»- with him, whom he introduced to Edwardas a°youth of great promise, humbly entreatingthe king to take him under his protection, and re¬instate him in his father’s lands.But no sooner did Edward learn who he was,than he reproached him with his father’s rebellion;and, in great wrath, turning to the Archbishop, exclaimed, “ 1 have no service for such a traitor’s son,and have gwen hislands to a better man than him."TIIK 1U,A( K DCH GI.AS,! This stem denial of justice to his relation was asevere disappointment to the Archbishop^ but itonly roused the spirit of the young Douglas:he resolved from that moment to devote his life(after the glorious example of his father,) to thesalvation of his country; and returned to St. An¬drew’s, there to await patiently for better times.Nor had he to wait long, for news soon reachedhim that the heroic Bruce had preferred his claimto the crown of Scotland, and had erected hisstandard in his native Annandale.He, hire the Douglas, had craved the friend¬ship of the English King. But when he put himin mind of a promise to assist him, as nearest andlawful heir to the crown of Scotland, the craftyold King, who no doubt entertained views of tak¬ing the crown to himself, angrily replied, “ What!have we nothing else to do but to conquer king¬doms for you!”Among the first who joined the Bruce, w-asyoung Douglas, accompanied with a gallant reti¬nue of followers, the expense of their equipmentbeing secretly defrayed by the Archbishop of St.Andrew’s. It may easily be imagined how wel¬come his presence would be to Bruce; for, inde¬pendent of his high birth and hearty' good-will tothe cause, he was a young man of uncommonpromise. His education hud not been neglected,and to a mind well stored, was added a body ofunusual strength and vigour. Ho is representedas being very tall, broad between the shoulders,and limbs well formed, with swarthy complexionand dark hair, by which he received the appella-THE 11 LACK DOUOLAS.tioc of the Black Douglas. He was also said tohe modest and gentle in times of peace, but had avery different countenance in the day of battle.The efforts of Bruce with his few adherentswere for some time unsuccessful; and he himself,with his Queen and her ladies, and a few others,were obliged to take refuge among the Highlandmountains.Chased from one place to another, they wereoften in great danger, and reduced to great straitsfrom the want of victuals. Young Douglas, it wasremarked, was the most active in procuring sup¬plies, from his great dexterity in hunting and fish¬ing. King Robert at last succeeded in procuringa place of refuge for his Queen, and afterwards,with Lord Douglas and some other followers,determined to seek refuge in the Western Isles.Leaving, therefore, their place of retreat, a caveon the banks of Loch Lomond, now known by thename of Rob Roy’s cave, they crossed the lake ofthat name in a crazy boat, which was rowed byDouglas, whose activity and resources surmountedevery difficultyHaving reached the Western Isles in safety,they remained there for the winter. In the fol¬lowing spring, nothing daunted by their ill suc¬cess, young Douglas, with a small body of men,made a descent upon the island of Arran, and tookthe castle by stratagem. King Robert followedwith all the men he could muster; and while hewandered through the island in search of hisfriends, repeatedly blew his horn. When SirJames Douglas heard Bruce’s horn, he knew theTH1C BLACK DOUOLAS.usound well, and cried out that yonder was theking, for he knew his manner of blowing. Theymet soon after, to the great joy of all.Bruce, who was now in view of his own countryof Carrick, immediately begun to iorm plans withDouglas how they might best renew their enter¬prises against the English. While Bruce openeda communication w’ith the opposite coast of Car¬rick, Douglas resolved to go disguised to his owncountry, to raise his friends, and be revenged onLord Clifford, on whom Edward had conferredthe Douglas estates, and who had taken up hisresidence in the Castle of Douglas.Widi this purpose he secretly sought the houseof Thomas Dickson, an old and faithful servant ofhis father. Emaciated with hunger and toil, andclothed in the meanest apparel, Dickson did notrecognise the son of Ids Lord; but no sooner washe made sensible that the heir of the house ofDouglas stood before him, than, bursting intotears, he bewailed the downfall of his master’shouse. But grief was turned into joy, when madeacquainted with the successes of Bruce, and thehope of again seeing his-master’s house rise fromits ashes.A scheme was soon laid for attacking DouglasCqstle; and the old and tried retainers of Douglaswere brought to the house of Dickson, one by one,for fear of discovery.A holiday was approaching, called Palm Sun¬day. Upon this day it was common in RomasCatholic times, for the people to go to church inprocession, with green boughs in their .hands, fa12THE BLACK DOUGLAS.this manner the garrison of the Castle marched tochurch. The solemn service of the day proceededat first without interruption, but before being quitefinished, a loud flourish of trumpets rung throughthe church, accompanied with loud cries of “ ADouglas ! A Douglas !” being the Douglas sloganor war-cry, and which was the signal agreed up¬on by the Scots.The English seized their arms, and endeavouredto rush out of the church; but they were met byThomas Dickson, and one or two more, who rush¬ed upon them sword in hand. The signal, how¬ever, having been made too soon, Dickson wasoverpowered and slain before assistance couldreach him. Douglas and his men now came up,and furious at finding his faithful adherent slain,he performed such deeds of valour, that the Eng¬lish were slaughtered around him in heaps, andthe remainder made prisoners. Douglas next as¬sailed the castle, but instead of meeting with re¬sistance, he found the gates open, and that part ofthe garrison which was left at home, busied incooking provisions for those who were at church:so he and his followers entered and sat down tothe dinner prepared for their enemies.But Sir James Douglas, who was no less pru¬dent than valiant, soon perceived, that althoughhe had now got possession of his own castle, yetthe English were strong in the country, and itwould be impossible with his limited numbers tokeep it. He therefore resolved to destroy all theprovisions which the English had stored up in theCastle, and render the place unavailing to them.THE BLACK DOL'CLAS.3For this purpose, ne caused all the barrels con¬taining flour, meal, wheat, and malt, to be knock¬ed in pieces, and their contents mixed on the floor;then he staved the great hogsheads of wine, andmixed the liquor with the stores ; he afterwardshad all the bullocks procured for slaughter knock¬ed ou the head, and their carcases thrown into themass. Last of all, ho killed his prisoners, andflung the dead bodies among this disgusting heap,throwing salt over the whole. This his men cal¬led in derision of the English, the Douglas Lar¬der. Then he flung dead horses into the well todestroy it; set fire to the castle; and afterwardsmarching away, took refuge with his followers inthe hills and forests. “He loved better,” he said,“ to hear the lark sing than the mouse squeakthat is, he loved better to keep in the open fieldwith his men, than to shut himself and them upin castles.This was considered a very cruel deed even inthat barbarous age; but the imprisonment anddeath of his father, the indignities heaped uponhimself by Edward, with the death of his valiantand trusty servant Thomas Dickson, must pleadsome excuse for this cruel action.When Clifford, the English Lord, heard whathad happened, he came to Douglas Castle with agreat body of men, and rebuilt all the defenceswhich Sir James Douglas had destroyed, and puta good soldier, named Thirlwall, to command thegarrison, and desired him to be on his guard, forhe suspected that Lord Douglas would again at¬tack him. He had reason for this suspicion, for»GTHE BLACK DOUGLAS.Douglas was resolved to destroy this garrison ashe had done the former.To accomplish this, he had recourse to strata¬gem. He stationed a. part of his followers irambush in a wood, and sent fourteen men disguis¬ed like countrymen, driving cattle past the gates.No sooner was this observed from the battlements,than Thirlwa!) came out with a great part of thegarrison, to plunder the Sects drovers of their cattle.Ju the pursuit, he had just passed the place whereDouglas was lying concealed, when all of a suddenthe Scotsmen threw off their carrier’s cloaks, andappearing in armour, cried the war-cry of Douglas,and attacked the garrison fiercely; and beforeThirlwall could make any defence, he heard thesame war-cry behind him ; and to his astonishmentsaw the Douglas coming up with those Scots whohad been lying in ambush. Thirlwall himself waskilled by the hand of Douglas, fighting bravely,and only a few of his men found their way backto the castle.Wli en Lord James had thus slain two of theEnglish governors of his castle, and was known tohave made a vow that he would be revenged onany who should dare to take possession of hisfather’s house, men became afraid, and the Castlebecame known, through botti Scotland and Eng-land, by the name of Castle Dangerous.To keep this castle, therefore, was consideredso perilous, that a lady of great beauty and fortunein England, being asked in marriage by a numberof young noblemen, declared her resolutionnot to marry any one but him who could defendTHE BLACK DOUSLAS.17Castle Dangerous against the Scots for a year anda day. A gallant young knight, named Sir JohnWilton, stepped forward, and said, for the lore ofthat Lady, he would engage to keep Castle Dan¬gerous for a year and a day, if the king would givehim leave. This the king was very glad to do.This gallant nobleman kept thecastle very safelyfor some time; but in the end he had no betterfortune than his predecessors, for Douglas, by astratagem, induced him to venture out with a greatpart of his garrison, and set upon them in the midstof a wood, and slew them. 8ir John Wilton him¬self was killed, and a letter from the lady is saidto have been found in his pocket. Sir JamesDouglas deeply regretted the fate of this braveyoung man, and did not put to death any of theprisoners as he had formerly done,but sent them allin safety to the next English garrison.The next exploit of Sir James Douglas was thetaking of Roxburgh Castle, situated near where twofine rivers, the Tweed and the Teviot, join to eachother. It was a very strong place, and being with¬in a few miles of the English border, the Englishwere extremely desirous of maintaining it, andequally so the Scots of gaining possession of it.It was upon the night of what is called Shrove¬tide, a Roman Catholic holiday, and which wassolemnized with much gaiety and feasting, thatthe attempt was made Ly Douglas.About the close of the evening, while the wifeof one of the English officers was sitting on thebattlements with a child in her arms, and lookingout on the fields below, she saw some object*, like18THE BLACK DOUGLAS.a herd of cattle, straggling near the foot of thewalls, and approaching the ditch or moat of thecastle. She pointed tliem out to the sentinel, andasked him what they were.—“ Pooh, pooh,” saidthe soldier, “ it is Farmer such a man’s cattle,”(naming a man whose farm lay near to the castle;)“the goodman is keeping a jolly Shrovetide, andhas forgot to shut up his bullocks in their yard ;but if the Douglas come across them before morn¬ing, he is likely to rue his negligence.”Now, these creeping objects which they- sawfrom the castle-wall, were no real cattle, but Dou¬glas himself and his soldiers, who had put blackcloaks above their armour, and were creepingabout on hands and feet, in order, without beingobserved, to get so near the foot of the wall as tobe able to set ladders to it. The poor woman,who knew nothing of this, sat quietly on the wall,and began to sing to her child.Hush ye, hush ye, little pet ye.Hush ye, hush ye, do not fret ye,The Clack Douglas shall not get ye.“ You are not so sure of that,” said a voiceclose beside her. She felt at the same time &heavy hand, with an iron glove, laid on her shoul¬der, and when she looked round, she saw the veryBlack Douglas she had been singing about, stand¬ing close beside her, a tall, swarthy, strong man.At the same time another Scotsman was seenascending up to the walls, near to the sentinel.The soldier gave the alarm, and rushed with hislance at the Scotsman, whose name was SimonTHE BLACh. V,0UULA3.liedehouse ; but Simon parried the blow, and cloj-ing with the sentinel, struck him a deadly thrustwith his dagger. The rest of the Scots followedup to assist Douglas and Ledehouse, and the castlewas taken. Many of the soldiers were put todeath, but Douglas protected the woman and thechild.Many brilliant actions of this nature were per¬formed by Douglas, and the castles and strongplaces in Scotland were recovered one after an¬other.Roused by the successes of the Scots, the Eng¬lish monarch determined to make a mighty elfortto crush for ever what he termed this rebellion ofthe Scots. With this view he levied an immensearmy, consisting, it is said, of not less than onehundred thousand men.King Robert, however, heard of this mightyarmy without fear. His past successes had pro¬cured him soldiers, and he now found himself atthe head of 30,1)00 brave men. With these hetook post on the field of Bannockburn.This army, indeed, in arms and equipment, wasnot equal to the English, but Bruce was at theirhead, one of the ablest generals of the time, andunder him were his brother Edward, his nephewSir Thomas Randolph, and The Douglas, leadersunder whom the Scots had always been accustom¬ed to conquer. Sir Thomas Randolph and LordDouglas had acted together on many a well foughtfield, and the strictest friendship existed betwixtthese two great men.‘U the Battle of Bannockburn. Douglas com-20TUK BLACK DOUGLAS.rnanded tho centre of tl)e Scottish army, and Ran¬dolph was placed on the left wing, with strictorders to prevent succours from being thrown intothe castle of Stirling. Just before the battlecommenced, word was brought to King Robertthat a body of English had passed on the road forStirling. The king, exasperated at the negligenceof Sir Thomas Randolph, rode up to him in greatfury, exclaiming, “ O, Randolph, a rose has fallenfrom your chaplet!”Stung with this reproach, Randolph called uponhissoldiers to follow him,exclaiming, “ My wreathshall bloom, or I shall perish !”As he advanced, the English, who were ten toone, wheeled round to attack him, and pressedhard on his little band. Douglas saw his jeopar¬dy, and requested the king's permission to succourhim. “ You shall not move from your ground,”cried the king ; “ let Randolph extricate himselfas he best may,—I will not alter my order of battie, and lose the advantage of my position.”“ In truth,” replied Douglas, “ I cannot standby and see Randolph perish ; and, therefore, withyour leave, I must aid him.”The king unwillingly consented, and the braveDouglas flew to the assistance of his friend.While approaching, he perceived that Randolph,by his persevering courage, had defeated the ene¬my. “ Halt,” cried Douglas, “ these brave menhave repulsed the enemy, let us not diminish theirglory by seeming to share it.”Soon after, the terrible battle of Bannockburnbegan and the exertions of Sir James DouglasTriK BLACK DOUiiLAS. 21on that memo rah !e day surpassed all his formerdeeds.After the termination of the hat tie, and whenit was known that Edward had made his escapefrom the field, Douglas collected about eightyhorse, and hung upon his flight as far as Dunbar,fifty miles from the field of battle.The battle of Bannockburn, so glorious to theScots, put an end to the pretensions of the EnglishKing to the crown of Scotland. Instead of beingable to send more armies into Scotland, Englandwas, in its turn, invaded by the Scots; and Brucesent his two great commanders, the Good LordJames Douglas, and Thomas Randolph, Earl ofMurray, to lay waste the counties of Northum¬berland and Durham, and distress the English asmuch as they could.Their soldiers were about twenty thousand menin number, all lightly armed, and mounted onhorses that were but small in height, but exces¬sively active. The men themselves carried noprovisions, except a bag of oatmeal; and eachhad at his saddle a small plate of iron, called agirdle, on which, when they pleased, they couldbake the oatmeal into cakes. They killed thei cattle of the English, as they travelled throughI the country, roasted the flesh on wooden spits, or| noiled it in the skins of the animals themselves,E putting in a little water with the beef, to preventthe fire from burning the hide to pieces. This. was rough cookery. They made their shoes, orl rather sandals, in as coarse a way, cutting themi out of the raw hides of the cattle, and fitting22THE BLACK DOUGLAS.them to their ancles, like what are now calledshort gaiters. As this sort of buskin had the hairyside of the hide outermost, the English calledthose who wore them rough-footed Scots, andsometimes, from the colour of the hide, red-shanks.As the army needed to carry nothing withthem, either for provisions or ammunition, theScots moved with amazing speed, from mountainto mountain, and from glen to glen, pillaging anddestroying the country wheresoever they came.In the meanwhile, the young King of Englandpursued them with a much larger army; but, asit was encumbered by the necessity of carryingprovisions in great quantities, and by the slowmotions of men in heavy armour, they could notcome up with the Scots, although they saw everyday the smoke of the houses and villages whichthey were burning.At last the King of England grew so impatient,that he offered a large reward to any one whowould show him where the Scottish army were.At length, a gentleman named Ilokeby, cameinto the camp, and claimed the reward which theKing had offered, guiding the English army to theplace where the Scots lay encamped.But the English king was no nearer to the bat¬tle which he desired ; for Douglasand Randolph,knowing the force and numbers of the Englisharmy, had taken up their camp on a steep hill,at the bottom of which ran a deep river, so thatthere was no possibility for the English to attackthe Scots without crossing the water, and thenTHE BLACK DOUGLAS.25 ,climbing up the hill in the very face of their ene¬my, a risk which was too great to be attempted.Then the Kinsj sent a message of defiance tothe Scottish generals, inviting them either to drawback their forces, and allow him freedom to crossthe river, and time to place his army in order ofbattle on the other side, that they might fightfairly; or offering, if they liked it better, to per¬mit them to cross over to his side without opposi¬tion, that they might 'join battle on a fair held.Randolph and Douglas did nothing hut laugh atthis message. They said, when they fought, itshould be at their own pleasure, and not becausethe king of England chose to ask for a battle.While tne armies lay thus opposed to eachother, Douglas resolved to give the young king ofEngland a lesson in the art of war. At the deadof night, he left the Scottish camp with a smallbody of chosen horse, not above two hundred,well armed. He crossed the river in deep silence,and came to the English camp, which was butcarelessly guarded. Seeing this, Douglas rodepast the English sentinels as if he had been anofficer of the English army, saying,-—■“ Ha, SaintGeorge ! you keep bad watch here !”Presently after, Douglas heard an English sol¬dier, who lay stretched by the fire, say to his com¬rade,—“ I cannot tell what is to happen us in thisplace; but, for my part, 1 have a great fear of th ■>Black Douglas playing us some tricks.’“ You shall have cause to say so,” thoughtDouglas to himself.W ben he had thus got into the midst of the26*fHE BLACK DOUGLAS.English camp without being discovered, he drewhis sword, and cut asunder the ropes of a tent,calling out his usual war-cry,— “ Douglas, Dou¬glas ! English thieves, you are all dead men !”His followers immediately began to cut down andoverturn the tents, cutting: and stabbing; the Eng;-lish soldiers as they endeavoured to get to arms.Douglas forced his way to the pavilion of theking himself, and very nearly carried that youngprince prisoner out of the middle of his great ar¬my. Edward’s chaplain, however, and many ofhis household, stood to arms bravely in his de¬fence, while the young king escaped by creepingaway beneath the canvass of his tent. The chap¬lain, and several of the king’s officer’s were slain;but the whole camp was now alarmed and in arms,so that Douglas was obliged to retreat, which hedid by bursting through the English at, the side ofthe camp opposite to that by which he had en¬tered. Being separated from his men in the con¬fusion, he was in great danger of being slain byan Englishman, who encountered him with a greatclub. He killed him, but with considerable dif¬ficulty; and then blowing his horn to collect hismen, who soon gathered around him, he returnedto the Scottish camp, having sustained very littleloss.Edward, much mortified at the insult whichhe had received, became still more desirous ofchastising these audacious adversaries, and one ofthem at least was not unwilling to afford him anopportunity of revenge. This was Thomas Ran¬dolph, Earl of Murray. He asked Douglas whenTHE BLACK DOUGLAS. 27he returned to the Scottish camp, What he haddone ?“We have drawn some blood.”“ Ah,” said the Earl, “ had we gone all toge¬ther to the night attack, we would have discomfit¬ed them.”“ It might well have been so,” said Douglas,“ hut the risk would have been too areat.”O“ Then will we fight them in open battle,”said Randolph, “ for if we remain here, we shallin time be famished for want of provisions.”“Not so,” replied Douglas; “we will dealwith the great army of the English as the fox didwith the fisherman in the fable.”“ And how was that ?” said the Earl ofMurray.—Here the Douglas told him thisstory:—“ A fisherman,” he said “ had made a hut bya river side, that he might follow his occupationof fishing. Now, one night he had gone out toiook after his nets, leaving a small fire in his hut;and when he came back, behold there was a foxin the cabin, taking the liberty to eat one of thei finest salmon he had taken. ‘ Ho, Mr. Robber !’? said the fisherman, drawing his sword, and stand-i ing in the door-way to prevent the fox’s escape ;“ ‘ you shall presently die the death. The poori fox looked for some hole to get out at, but sawt none, whereupon he pulled down with his teeth ai mantle, which was lying on the bed, and draggedi it across the fire. The fisherman ran to snatchf his mantle from the fire—the fox flew out at thedoor with the salmon;—and so will we escape theTHE RLAGK DOUGLAS.28great English arraj by subtlety, and withoutrisking battle with so large an army.”Randolph agreed to act by Douglas’s counsel,and the Scots army kindled great fires throughtheir encampment, and made a noise and shout¬ing, and blowing of horns, as if they meant toremain all night there, as before. But, in themean time, Douglas had caused a road to be cutthrough two miles of a great morass which lay intheir rear, and which it would otherwise havebeen impossible that the army could have cross¬ed; and through this passage, which the Englishnever suspected, Douglas and Randolph, ana alltheir men, moved at the dead of night. They didnot leave so much as an errand-boy behind, andso bent their march towards Scotland, leaving theEnglish disappointed and affronted. Great wastheir wonder in the morning, when they saw theScottish camp empty, and found no living men init, but two or three English prisoners tied to trees,whom they had left with an insulting message tothe King of England, saying, “ If he were dis¬pleased with what they had done, he might comeand revenge himself in Scotland.”After this expedition of these two brave com¬manders, a peace was concluded with the English,very honourable to the Scots. But the greatKing Robert Bruce did not long survive this joy¬ful event. Finding that he could not recover, heassembled round his bedside the noblemen andcounsellers in whom he most trusted.He told them, that now being on his death¬bed, he sorely repented all his misdeeds, moreTHE BLACK DOUGLAS.siespecially of having slain the Red Corayn beforethe holy altar; and that, if he had lived, it washis intention, in expiation of this offence, to havegone to the Holy Land, and make war againstthe enemies of the Cross. But since he wasabout to die, he requested of his dearest friend,and braviest warrior. Good Lord James Douglas,that he should carry his heart to Jerusalem.The Good Lord Douglas wept as he acceptedthis precious charge—the last token of his king’sconfidence and friendship.The king soon afterwards died, at the age offifty-four years. His heart was taken out fromhis body and embalmedthat is, prepared withspices and perfumes, that it might remain longfresh and uncorrupted. The heart was then putinto a silver case, by Lord Douglas, which hewore round his neck by a string of silk and gold;and he afterwards set forward for the Holy'Land, accompanied by a gallant train of thebravest men in Scotland.But Douglas never reached the end of hisjourney. On his road to Palestine he landed inSpain, while Osmyn, the Saracen King of Gra¬nada, was invading the realms of Alphonso, Kingof Castile.King Alphonso received Douglas with greathonour and distinction, and people came from allparts to see the great soldier, whose fame had fill¬ed every part of the Christian world.Lord Douglas, thinking he would do good ser¬vice to the Christian cause by assisting King Al-pbonto to drive baek the Saracens of Grenada,THE BLACK DOUGLAS.32l-'1before proceeding on his voyage, went, according¬ly, to a great battle against Osmyn, and had littledifficulty in defeating the Saracens opposed tohim. But, pursuing the chase too far, he wassurrounded by the Moors, who seeing the Scotsseparated from each other, turned suddenly back,and with shouts of Allah, illah, Allah! theirwar-cry, surrounded such of the Scottish knightsas had advanced too hastily.Douglas, in the midst of the skirmish, sawWilliam St. Clair of Roslin fighting desperately,surrounded by the Moors, who were hewing athim with their sabres, “ Yonder brave knight willbe slain,” Douglas said, “ unless he have presenthelp.”With that he galloped to his rescue, but hewas likewise instantly surrounded by manyMoors. After performing prodigies of valour,and when the enemy pressed so thick around himas to leave him no chance of escaping, he tookfrom his neck the Bruce’s heart, and speaking toit, as he would have done to the king had he beenalive, “ Pass first in fight,” he said, “ as thou wertwont to do, and Douglas will follow thee or die !”He then threw the kinjc’s heart among theenemy, and rushing forward to the place whereit fell, was there slain. His body was found ly¬ing above the silver case, as if it had been his lastobject to defend the Bruce’s heart.The Good Lord James, as he was usuallystyled, was one of the best and wisest soldiers thatever drew a sword. He was said to have foughtin Seventy battles, being beaten in thirteen, andTHE BLACK IWOGLAS.3Svictorious in fifty-seven. The Scottish historiansdescribe him as one who was never dejected bybad fortune, or unduly elated by that which wasgood. Notwithstanding the many battles in whichhe had fought, his face had escaped without awound. A brave Spanish knight, whose facewas scarred bv the marks of Moorish sabres, ex¬pressed wonder that Douglas’s countenance shouldbe unmarked with wounds. Douglas modestlyreplied, he thanked G-od, who had always ena¬bled his hand to guard and protect his face.Many of Douglas’s followers were slain in thebattle in which he himself fell, and those whoremained alive returned to their country. Theybrought back the heart of Bruce and the bones ofthe Good Lord James, which they buried in thechurch of St. Bride, where Thomas Dickson andDouglas held so terrible a Palm Sunday. TheBruce’s heart was buried below the high altar inMelrose AbbeyTHL BATTLE OF OTTERBURN.This famous battle, familiarly knonvn to our boyhood bythe name of the Battle of Chevy Chace, was fought on the)9th of August, 1388, betwixt the Earl of Douglas, witha chosen band of bOOO Scots, and Sir Ralph and SirHenry Percy, otherwise called Hotspur, at the head of anequal or superior number of English.Earl Douglas, grand-nephew to the Good Sir James, ina skirmish near Newcastle, encountered Sir Henry Percy,and, in the struggle which ensued, got possession of Hot¬spur’s spear, at the end of which was attached a smallSiTHE BATTLE OF OllEBBURV.ornament of silk, embroidered with pearls. Douglas shookhis trophy aloft, and declared that he would carry it intoScotland. “ That,” said Percy, “ shall thou never do ; Iwill regain my lance ere thou canst reach the Border.”On their way home, the Scots encamped at Otterburn,about 20 miles from the frontier. In the middle of thenight the alarm was given that Percy was upon them, andthe moonlight showed his advance with very superior num¬bers.The battle commenced with the greatest fury, and Dou¬glas and Percy were repeatedly engaged hand to hand. Butthe Scots were out-numbered, and about to give way, whenDouglas, shouting his war-cry of ‘‘Douglas! Douglas!”rushed into the thickest of the enemy, clearing his waywith his battle-axe. He fell, at length, under three mor¬tal wounds.When the other Nobles came up, they found him in adying state, protected by a stout priest, called William ofNorth Berwick, armed with a long lance.“ How fares it, Cousin ?” said Sinclair, the first Scottishknight who came up to the wounded leader.‘‘Indifferently,” answered Douglas; “but blessed beGod, my ancestors have died in fields of battle, not ondown-beds. I sink fast; but let them still cry my war-cry,and conceal my death from my followers. There was atradition in our family that a dead Douglas should win afield, and I trust it will this day be accomplished.”The Nobles did as he had enjoined ; they concealed theEarl’s body, and again rushed on to the battle, shouting“ Douglas! Douglas!” louder than before. The Englishwere weakened by the loss of the brave brothers Henryand Ralph Percy, both of whom were made prisoners,fighting most gallantly; and almost no man of note amongstthe English escaped death or captivity.tax nr*.