arHE HISTORYPAISLEY:Printed bf G. CafchceU, Books $Jler.JACK AND THE BEAN-STALK.In the days of King Alfred, there lived a poorwoman, whose cottage was situated in a remotecountry village, a great many miles from LondonShe had been a widow some years, and hadan only child, named Jack, whom she indulgedto a fault: the consequnce of Iter blind partia¬lity was, that Jack did not pay the least atten¬tion to any thing she said, but was indolent,careless, and extravagant. His follies were notowing to a bad disposition, but that his motherhad never checked him. By degrees, she ‘dis¬posed of all she possessed—scarcely any thingremained but a cow.The poor woman one day met Jack withtears in her eyes; his distress was great, and,for the hrst time in her life, she could not helpreproaching him, saving, ‘.‘Oh! you wickedchild, by your ungrateful course of life youhave at last brought me to beggary and ruin !Cruel, cruel boy ! I have not money enoughto purchase even a hit of bread for anotherday—nothing now remains to sell but mypoor cow ! 1 am sorry to part with her; itgrieves me sadly, but we must not starve. ”aiudraaa iq4*/For a few minutes Jack felt a degree of fe-urse, but it was soon over, and he beganBzing his mother to let him sell the cow tstk next village, so much, that she at last cou¬nted.As he was going along, he met a butcher,(to inquired why he was driving the cow fro«i*pie ? Jaek replied, he was going to sell it.—ke butcher held some curious beans in his hat;ly were of various colours, and attractedIk’s notice. This did not pass unnoticed by| butcher, who, knowing Jack’s easy temperflight now was the time to take an advant-te of it, and, determined not to let slip sopd an opportunity, asked what was the priceI the cow', offering at the same lime all theIans in his hat for her. The silly boy could(t conceal the pleasure he felt at what hejposed so great an offer ; the bargain wasnek instantly, and the cow exchanged for aI v paltry beans. Jack made the best of hisiiy home, calling aloud to his mother beforeh reached the house, thinking to surprise her.fj When she saw the beans, and heard Jack'sacount, her patience quite forsook her ; shefcked the beans away in a passion—they flews. all directions—some were scattered in ther.rden. Not having any thing to eat, they bothHint supperless to bed.Jack awoke very early in the^mormng, anaseeing sosiething uncommon from the vviadow'of his bedchamber, ran down stairs into thegarden, wke:ehesoon discovered that some ci;the beans had taken root, and sprung up surfprisihgly : the stalks were of an immense:thickness, and had so entwined, that they form¬ed a ladder nearly like a chain in appearance!Looking upwards, he could not discern thetop, it appeared to he lost in the clouds : hetried it, found it firm, and not to be shakenfjMe quickly formed the resolution of endeavion ring to climb up to the top, in order to seekMs fortune, and ran to communicate his iriteuftjQ'fierto his mother, not doubting but she would!,uaiiy pleased with himself. She declajed;f! not go; said it would break liest if he did—entreated and threatened, hufl-ail ni VanJack set out, and after climbing for so at o',r.oir.o leached the top of the bean-stalk, fa¬tigued and quite exhausted. Looking arcundiid hiniseJ in a strange country ; it ap|pearck to be a desert, quite barren; not atree, shrub, house, or living creature to heseen ; here and there were scattered fragmentsof-stone, and at unequal distances small heaps•f earha were loosely thrown together.Jack seated hia.se’f pensively upon a block> of stone, and thought of his mother—he re¬flected with sorrow on his disobedience inclimbing the bean-stalk against her will, andconcluded that he must die with hunger.However he walked on, hopimg to see a| house where he might beg something to eati and drink presently a handsome young womanf appeared at a distance ; as she approached,, Jack could not help admiring how beautiful|! and lively she looked ; she was dressed in( the most elegant manner, and had a smalli white wand in her hand, on the top of whichr was a peacock of pure gold.While Jack was looking with the greatestjj surprise at this charming female, she came up| to him, and, with a smile of the most bewitch-P ing sweetness, injured how he came there.\ Jack related the circumstance of the bean-stalk.She asked him, if he recollected his father : hej replied he did not; and added, there must be| some mystery relating to him, because if heasked his mother who his father was, she al¬ways burst into tears, aud appeared to bei violently agitated, nor did she recover herselffor some days after ; one thing, however, hecould not avoid observing upon these occasionswhich was, that she always carefully avoidedanswering him, and even seemed afraid ofspeaking, as if there was seme secret connect-,( 6 )ed with his father’s history which she mustnot disclose.The young woman replied, “ I will revealthe whole story : your mother must not. But,before I begin, I require a solemn promise onyour part to do what I command ; I am a fairy,and if you do not perform exactly what I de¬sire, you will be destroyed.” Jack was fright¬ened at her menaces, but promised to fulfil herinjunctions exactly, and the fairy thus address¬ed him :—“ Your father was a rich man, his disposi¬tion remarkably benevolent: he was very goodto the poor, and constantly relieving them: hemade it a rule never to let a day pass withoutdoing good to some person. On one particu¬lar day in the week he kept open house, andinvited only those who were reduced and hadlived well. He always presided himself, anddid all in his power to render his guests com¬fortable ; the rich and the great were next in¬vited. The servants were all happy, andgreatly attached to their master and mistress.Your father, though only aprirate gentleman,was aa rich as a prince, end he deserved allhe possessed, for h« only to do good.Such a man was soon known and talked of.A giant lived a great mar.y miles off} thiswan was altogether as ticked ** your fttther(7}was good ; he was in his heart envious, co¬vetous, and crueJ ; but he had the art of con¬cealing those vices. lie was poor, and wishedto enrich himself at any rate.“ Hearing your father spoken of, he formedthe design of becoming acquainted with him,hoping to ingratiate himself into your father’sfavonr. He removed quickly into your neigh¬bourhood, caused it to be reported that hei was a gentleman who had just lost all he pos-r sessed by an earthquake, and found it difficult? to escape with his life ; his wife was with him.Your father gave credit to his story, and pitied1 him ; he gave him handsome apartments in his3 own house, and caused him and his wife to beI treated like visitors of consequence, little ima-| gining that the giant was meditating a kor-i rid return for all his favours.“ Things went on this way for some time,t the giant becoming daily more impatient toi put his plan in execution; at last a favourableS opportunity presented itself. Your father’shouse was at some distance from the sea-shore,!but with a glass the coast could be seen distinct¬ly. The giant was one day using the telescope;the wind was very high ; he saw a fleet of ships!i in distress off the rocks : he hastened to yourl father, mentioned the circumstance, and ea-i! gerty requested he would send all the servant"( 8 )he could spare to relieve the sufferers.“ Every one was instantly despatched, ex-.cept the porter and your nurse; the giant thenjoined your father in the study, and appearedto he delighted—he really was so. Your fat¬her recommended a favourite book, and washanding it down : the giant took the opportu¬nity, and stabbed him ; he instantly fell downdead. The giant left the body, found die por¬ter and nurse, and presently despatched them,being determined to have no living witnessesof bis erimes.“ You were then only three months old ;your mother had you in her arms in a*remotepart of the house, and was ignorant of whatwas going OB ; she went into the study, butbow was she shocked, on discovering yonr hi¬ther a corpse, and weltering in his'blood! Shewas etupified with horror and grief, and wasmotionless. The giant, who was seeking her,found her in that state, and hastened to serveher and you as he had done your father, butshe fell at his feet, and in a pathetic mannerbesought him to spare your life and bedse‘ Remorse, for a moment, seemed to touchthe barbarian’s heart: he granted your lives ;but first he made her take a most solemn oath,never to inform you who your father was, orto answer any questions concerning him; as-I4 suving her, that it’ she did, he would certainlyEi discover her, and put both oi’ you to death inJ the most cruel manner. Your mother took youli in her arms, and fled as quickly as possibly ;a she was scarcely gone, when the giant repent-d ed that he had suffered her to escape ; lie would:I have pursued her instantly, but he had to pro-» vide ror his own safety ; as it was necessary heshould be gone before the servants returned.1 Having gained your father’s confidence, hea knew where to find alibis treasure: lie soon{loaded himself and his wife, set the house on,t lire in several places, and when the servantsi leturned, the rouse was burned quite down to1 the ground.four poor mother, forlorn, abandoned, and1 forsaken, wandered with you a great manyi miles from this scene of desolation; fear addedij to her haste ; she settled in the cottage wherem you were brought up, and it was entirely owingI to her fear of the giant that she never men-3 tioned your father to you.“ I became your father’s guardian at hisI birth ; but fairies have laws to which they area subject as well as mortals. A short time beforei the giant went to your father’s I transgressed;my punishment was a suspension of power fora a limited time—an unfortunate circumstance,i it totally prevented myYuccouring your father,( 10 )“ The day on ;vhicli you met the butcher,an you went to sell your mother’s cow, my pow¬er was restored. It was me who secretly prompt¬ed you to take thebeaas in exchange for the cow.“ Ty my power, the bean-stalk grew to sogreat a height, and formed a ladder. I neednot add, that I inspired you with a strong de¬sire to ascend the ladder.“ The giant lives in this country : you arrthe person appointed to punish him for all hiswickedness. You will have dangers and diffi¬culties to encounter, but you must perseverein avenging the death of your father, or youwill not prosper in any of your undertakings,but be always miserable“ As to the giant’s possessions, you mayseize on all you can : for every thing ho hasis your’s, though now you are unjustly depriv¬ed of it. Oue thing I desire—d® not let yourmet her know you are aequainted with yourfather’s histoiy till you see me again.“ Go along the direct road, you will soonsee the house where your cruel enemy lives.While you do as 1 order you, I will protectand guard you ; but, remember, if you daredisobey my commands, a most dreadful punish¬ment awaits you.”When the fairy had concluded, she disap¬peared, leaving Jack to pursue his journey.f11 )lia walked on till after sunset, when to hisgreat joy he espied a large mansion. Thisagreeable sight revived his drooping spiiits; he: redoubled his speed, and soon reached it. A[ plain-looking woman was at the door—he ae-i costed her, begging she would give him aI morsel of bread and a night’s lodging.She expressed the greatest surprise at see-i ing him ; and said it was quite uncommon toi see a human being near their house, for it wasy well known that her husband was a large andj very powerful giant, and that he would never• eat any thing but human flesh, if he could pos-iisibly get it ; that he did not think any thing; of walking fifty miles to procure it, usuallyijbeing out the whole day for that purpose.'I liis account greatly terrified Jack, but stillthe hoped to elude the giant, and therefore he>iagam entreated the woman to take him in foruoae night only, and hide him where she! thought proper. The good woman at lastsi suffered herself to be persuaded, for she was ofa compassionate and generous dispositioa, andotook him into the house.First they entered a fine lage hall, magni-lificently furnished: they then passed throughseveral spacious rooms, all in the same styleof grandeur, but they appeared to he quite.'forsaken and desolate.A long gallery was next; it was very dark,just light enongfa to shew th«t, instead of awall on one side, there was a grating of iron,which parted off a dismal dungeon, fromwhence issued the groans of those poor victims ;whom the cruel giant reserved in confinementfor his own voracious appetite.Poor J&ek was half dead with fear, andwould have given the world to hare been with |hia mother again, for he now began to fear that !he should nev«r see her more, and gave him- ‘self up for lost: he even mistrusted the good 5woman, snd thought she had let him into thehouse for no other purpose than to lock himup among the unfortunate people in the dung-geon.At 4aie farther end of the gallery there wasa spacious kkchen, and a very excellent firewas .burning ia the grate. The good womanbid Jack sit down, and gave him plenty to eatand drink. Jack, not seeing any thing hereto make him uncomfortable, soon forgot hisfear, and was just beginning to enjoy himself,when he was aroused by n loud knocking atthe street-door, which made the whole house :shake ; the giant’s wife ran to secure him inthe oven, and then went to let her husband in.Jack heard him accost her in a voice likethunder saying, “ Wife, 1 smell fresh meat.”L 13 )“ Oil i my doer,” replied she, “ it is nothingbut the people in the dungeon ” The giantappeared.to believe her, and walked, into thevery kitchen where poor Jack was concealed,who shook, trembled, and was more terrifiedthan he had yet been.At last the manner seated himself quietlyby the fireside, whilst Ids wife prepared sup¬per. By degrees Jack recovered himself suf¬ficiently to lock at the giant through a smallcrevice : he was quite astonished to see whatan amazing quantity he devoured, and thoughthe never w ould have done eating and drinking.When supper was ended, the giant desired hiswife to bring him his hen. A very beautifulhen was brought, and placed on the table be¬fore him. Jack’s curiosity was very great tosee what would happen :—he observed thatevery time the giant said “ Lay 1” the hen laidan egg of solid gold.The giant amused himself a long time withhis hen, meanwhile his wife went to bed. Atlength the giant fell asleep by the fireside, andsnored like the roaring of a cannon. At day¬break, Jack, finding the giant stiil asleep, andnot likely to awaken soon, crept softly out ofhis hiding-place, seized the hen, and ran oil'with her.He met with some difficulty in finding his( 14 )vr»y out of the house, but at last he reachedthe road with safety ; lie easily found the wayto the bean-stalk, and descended it better andquicker than he expected. His mother wasoverjoyed to see him ; he found her cryingbitterly, and lamenting his hard fate, for sheconcluded he had come to some shocking endthrough his rashness.Jack was impatient to shew his hen, andinform his mother how valuable it was. “ Andnow, mother, ” said Jack, “ I have broughthome that which will quickly make us rich ;and I hope to make you some amends for theaffliction f have caused you through my idle¬ness, extravagance, and folly. ”The hen produced as many golden eggs asthey desired ; they sold them, and in a littletime became possessed of as much riches asthey wanted.For some months, Jack and his mother livedvery happily together ; but he, being very de¬sirous of travelling recollecting the fairy’scommands, and fearing that, if he delayed, shewould put her threats into execution, longedto climb the bean-stalk, and pay the giant a-nother visit, in order to carry away some moreof his treasure ; for during the time that Jackawas in the giant's mansion, while he lay con-ealed in the oven, he learned, from the con-( 15 )versation that took place between the giantand his wife, that he possessed some wonder¬ful curiosities. Jack thought of his journeyagain and again, but still he could not sum¬mon resolution enough to break it to his mo¬ther, being well assured that she would e«i-deavour to prevent his going. However, oneday he told her boldly that he must take ajourney up the bean-stalk ; she begged andprayed him not to think of it, and tried' all inher power to dissuade him : she told him thatthe giant’s wife would certainly know himagain, and the giant would desire nothingbetter than to get him into his power, that hemight put him to a cruel death, in order to berevenged for the loss of his hen.Jack, finding that all his arguments wereuseless, pretended to give up the point, though; resolved to go at all events. He had a dressprepared which would disguise him, and some-s thing to colour his skin ; he thought it impos-B sihle for any one to recollect him in this dress.In a few mornings after this, he rose verye early, changed his complexion, and, unperceiv-8 ed by any one, climbed the bean-stalk a secondil time. He was greatly fatigued when he reach-: ed the top, and very hungry.Having rested some time on one of the•■stones, he pursued his journey to the giant’s( 16 )mansion. He reached it late in the evening;the woman was at the door as before. Jackaddressed her, at the same time telling her apitiful tale, and requesting that she would givehim some victuals and drink, and a!lso a night’slodging.She told him ( what he knew before verywell) about her husband’s being a powerfuland cruel giant j £?id also that she one nightadmitted a poor, hungry, friendless boy, whowas half dead with travelling j that the littleungrateful fellow had stolen one of the giant’streasures 5 and ever since that her husbandhad been worse than before, used her verycruelly, and continually upbraided her withbeing the cause of his loss.Jack was at no loss to discover that he wasattending to the account of a story in whichhe was the principal actor; he did his best topersuade the old woman to admit him, butfound it a very hard task.At last she consented, and as she led the .way, Jack observed that every thing was justas he had found it before; she took him intothe kitchen, and after he had dene eating anddrinking, she hid him in an old lumber-closet.The giant returned at the usual time, by thewalked in so heavily that the house was shakento the foundation. He seated himself by th®( 17 )fire, and soon after exclamed, “ Wife, I smellfresh meat. ” The wife replied, “ it was theerows, which had brought a piece of raw meat,and left it on the top of the house. ”Whilst supper was preparing the giant wasvery ill-tempered and impatient, frequentlylifting up his hand to stiike his wife for notbeing quick enough : she, however, was alwaysso fortunate as to elude the blow. Ho wasalso continally upbraiding her with the lossof his wonderful hen.The giant’s wife having set supper on thetable, went to another apartment, and bnoughtfrom it a huge qie, which she also placed be¬fore him.When he had ended his plentiful supper,and eaten till he was quite satisfied, he said tohis wife—“ I must have something to amuseme—either my bags of money or my harp. ”After a great deal of ill-humour, and havingteazed his wife some time, he eammanded herto bring down his bags of gold and silver.Jack, as before, peeped out of his hiding-place,and presently his wife brought two bags intothe room : they were of a very large size, onowas filled with new guineas, and the otherwith new shillings.1 hey were both placed befere the ghuit,who began reprimanding his poor wife most( 13 )severely for staying so long ; she replied trera-ling with fear, that they were so heavy, th»she could scarcely lift them j and conclude<at kst, that she would never again bring thendown stairs; adding, that she had nearl)fainted, owing to their weight.This so exasperated the ginat,’ that he raisedhii hand to strike her ; she, howerver, escaped,and went to bed, leaving him to count overhis treasure by way of amusement.The giant took his bags, and after turningthem over and over, to see they were in thesame state he left them, began to count theircontents. First the bag which contained thesilver was emptied, and the contents placedupon the table. Jack viewed the glitteringheaps with delight, and most heartily wishedthe contents in his own possession. The giant(Kttle thinking he was so narrowlj watched)reckoned the silver over several times : andthen, having satisfied himself that ail was safeput it into the bags again, which he made verysecure.'I he other bag was opened next, and theguineas placed upon the table. If Jack waspleased at tho sight of the silver, how muchmore delighted laiust he have felt when he sawsuch a heap of glittering gold. He even hadthe boldness to think of gaining both bags;( J9 )but suddenly recolleccting lunaself, he beganto fear that the giant would sham sleep, thebetter to entrap eny one who might be conceal¬ed.When the giant had counted over the goldtill he was tired, he put it up, if possible, moresecure than lie had put up the sliver before ;he then fell back on his chair by the fireside,nad fell asleep. He snored so loud, that Jackcompared his noise to the roaring of the sea ina high wiud, when the tide is coming in. Atlast Jack, concluded him to be asleep, andtherefore secure, stole out of hit hiding-place,and approached the giant, in order to carry offthe two bags of money ; but, just as he laidhis hand upon one of the bags, a little dogwhom ho had not perceived before, started fromunder the giant’s chair, and barked at Jacki most furiously, who now gave himself up for1 lost; fear rivetted him to the spot. Instead of( endeavouring to escape he stood still, though* expecting his enemy to awake every instant.) Contrary, however, to his expect alien, thej giant continued in a aound sleep, and the dogI grew weary of barking. Jack now began to) recollect himself, and on looking round saw alarge piece of meat; this lie threw to the dog,i who instantly seized it, and took it into the{ lumber-closet which Jack had just left.( 20 )Finding himself delivered from a noisy andtroublesome enemy, and feeing'the giant didnot awake, Jack boldly seized the bags andthrowing them ovei' his shoulders ran out ofthe kitchen. He reached the street door iasafety, and found it quite daylight. In hisway t© the top of the bean-stalk, he found him¬self greatly incommoded with the weight of Ithe money bags; and really they were so'h#avy, that he could scarcely carry them.Jack was overjoyed when he found himselfjnear the bean-stalk ; he scon reached the hot*!tom, and immediately ran to seek his mother ;to his great surprise, the cottage was deserted ;he ran from one room to another, without he-ing able to dad any one ; he then hastened ia- •to the village, hoping to see&ome of the neigh¬bours, whe could inform him where he could jfind his mother.An old woman at last directed hkn to a sneighbouring house, where she was ill of a|fdrer. He was greatly shocked on finding herapparently dying, and could scarcely bear hisiown refiecfcioij*, on knowing himself to be the;On being inftwmed of our hero’s safe return,his mother, by degrees, revived, and graduallyrecovered. Jack presented her his two valua¬ble bags; they lived happy and comfortably( si )the cottage was rebuilt and well furnished.Fc»r three years Jack heard no more of thebean-stalk, but he could not forget it; thoughhe feared making his mother unhappy ; shawould not mention the hated bean-stalk, lestit should remind him oftakiug anotlier journey.Notwithstanding the comforts Jack enjoyedat home, his mind dwelt continually upon thebean-stalk ; for the fairy’s menaces in case ofhis disodediance, were ever present tc his mind,and prevented him from being happy—he couldthink of nothing else. It was in vain he endea¬voured to amuse himself; he became thought¬ful, and would arise at the first dawn of day,and view the bean-stalk for hours together.His mother discovered that something prey-j ed heavy uyon his mind, and endeavoured todiscover the cause ; but Jack knew too well' ' what the consequence would be, should he dis-cover the cause of his melancholy to her. Hedid his utmost, therefore, to conquer the greatdesire he had for another journey up the bean-I stalk. .-IFinding, however, that his inclination grew; too powerful for him, he began to make secret, preparatons for his journey, and, on the long¬est day. arose as soon as it was light, ascendedthe bean-stfk, and reached the top with some, little trouble. He found the road, journey,C 2* )icc. nuicli as it was on the two former times ;he arrived at the giant’s mansion in the eveningand found his wife standing, as usual, at thedoor. Jack had disguised himself so complete¬ly, that she did not appear to have the leastrecollection of him : however, when he pleadedhunger and poverty in order to gain admittance,he found it very difficult indeed to persuadeher. At last he prevailed, and was concealedin the copper.When the giant returned, he said, “ 1 smetlfresh meat!” Rut Jack felt quite composed,as he had said so before, and had bee:-.' scon sa¬tisfied ; however the giant started up suddenly,and, notwithstanding ail his wife could say, hesearched sll around the room. Tv hilst thisvvas going forward, Jack was exceedingly terri¬fied, and ready to die with fear, wishing himselfat home a thousand times; but when the'giantapproached the copper, and put his handupon the lid, Jack thought his death vvas cer¬tain. The giant ended his search there, with-ont moving the lid, and seated himself quietlyby the fireside.The giant at last ate sv hearty supper ; whenhe had finished, he commanded his wife tofetch down his harp. Jack peeped under thecopper-lid, and soon saw the most beautifulharp that could be imagined; it was placed by(*8 )ithe giant on the table, who said, “ Play J*« an^[it instantly played of its own accord, withoutbeing touched. The music was uncommonly::fine: Jack was delighted, and felt more anxi-ious to get the harp into his possession thanicither of the former treasures.The giant’s soul was not attuned to harmon-•y, and the music soon lulled him into a soundisleep. Now therefore was the time to carrytoff the Isarp. As the giant appeared to be in aomore profonnd sleep than usual, Jack soon de¬termined, got out of the copper, and seizedlithe harp. The harp was enchanted by a fairy:It called out loudly—“ Master ! master!”The giant awoke, stood up, and tried to[pursue Jack ; but he had drank so much thatiie could hardly stand. Poor Jack ran as fastis he could ; in a little time the giant recover-id sufficiently to walk slowly, or rather to reelIfter him ; had he been sober he must havefcvertaken Jack instantly ; but, as he then was,alack contrived to be first at the top of theIeau-stalk. The giant called after him in aoice like thunder, and sometimes was veryear him.The moment Jack got down the bean-stalke called out for a hatchet; one was broughtdm directly; just at that instant the giantvas beginning to descend, but Jack, with his( 2* )hatehet, out the bean-stalk close off’ at theroot, which made the giant fall headlong intothe garden—-the fall killed him, thereby releas¬ing the world from a barbarous enemy.Jack’s mother was delighted when she sawthe bean-stalk destroyed ; at this instant thefairy appeared : she first addressed Jack’s mo¬ther, and explained every circumstance relat¬ing to the journeys up the bean-stalk. Thefairy then charged Jack to be dutiful to hismother, and to follow his father’s good exam¬ple, which was the only way to be happy. Shethen disappeared; he heartily begged nerpar¬don for ail the sorrow and affliction he hadearned her, promising, most faithfully, to bevery dutiful and obedient to her for the future, jTHE END.