The Story-Teller.mA TRUE STORY-KIRKINTILLOCH:rt/BL13HED BY WILLIAM Ivl^IILLAN.' '-M ‘ijf! ' *j*i f i «j\' IUNFADING FLOWERSThirty years ago, a small, bare-footed boy paused to *<iimire the flowers in a well-cultivated garden. The chiwas an orphan, and had already felt how hard was the ophan’s lot. The owner of the garden, who was trimmii* border, noticed the lad, and spoke to him kindly.“ Do you love flowers said he.The boy replied, “ Oh, yes. We used to have beautifflowers in our garden.’’The man laid down his knife, and gathering a few flowetook them to ths fence, through the pannels of which tlboy was looking, and handing them to him, said, as 1did so, “ Here’s a nice little bunch for you.’’A flush went over the child's face as he took the flowe]He did not make any reply, but in his largo eyes, aslifted them to the face of th# man, was an expression(thankfulness to be read as plainly as words in a book.4The act, on the part of the man, was one of spontaneouskindness, and scarcely thought of ag iin; but, by the child,it was never forgottenYears went by, and through toil, privation, and suffer¬ing, both in holy and mind, the boy grew up to manhood.From ordeals like this, come forth our most effective men.It kept free from vicious associates, the lad of feeiing and,mental activity, becomes ambitious, and rises in societyabove the common level. So it proved in the case of this>rphan boy. He had few advantages of education, butsuch as offered were well improved. It happened that hislot was cast in a printing office, and the young compositorsoon became interested in his work, tie did not set thotypes as a mere mechanic, but went beyond the duties ofiiis calling, entering into the ideas to which he was givingverbal expression, and making them his own. At twenty-one he was a young man of more than ordinary intelligence\nd force of character. At thirty-five he was the con¬ductor of a wi lely-circulated and profitable newspaper,aud as a man respected and esteemed by all who knew him.Imring the earnest struggle that all men enter into whoare ambitious to rise in the world, the thoughts do not oftengo back and rest meditatively upon the earlier time of life.But after success has crowned each well directed effort, andthe gaining of a desired position no longer remains a sub¬ject of doubt, the mind often brings up from the far-off pastnost vivid recollections of incidents and impressions thatvere painful or pleasurable at the time, and which are nowoen to have had an influence, more or less decided, uponhe while after life In this state of reflection sat one dayhe man we have here introduced. After musing for a longime, deeply abstracted, lie took up his pen aud wrote hastily;nd these were the sentences he traced upon the paper thatly before him:“ How indelibly does a little act of kindness, performed5in the right moment, impress itself npon the mind ! W +meet, as we pass through the wo.'Id, so much of rude selfishness, that we guard ourselves against it, and scarcelyfeel its effects, But spontaneous kiudneoi comes so rarely,that we are surprised when it appeals, and delighted amirefreshed as by th# perfumes of flowers in the dreary win-*ter. When we were a small boy, an orphan, and with thememory of home for evet lost too vivid in cur young heart,a man, into whose beautiful garden we stood looking, pulleda few flowers, and handed them through the fence, speakinga kind word as he did so. lie did not know, and perhapsnever will know, how deeply we were touched by his actFrom a little boy we loved the flowers, and ere that heaviestaffliction a child ever knows—the loss of parents—feiluBoi,us, we almost lived among them. But death separated be¬tween us and all those tender associations and affectionsthat, to the hearts of children, are like the dew to th* ten¬der grass. Wo entered ttie dwelling of a stranger, and weretreated thenceforth, as if wo had, or ought to have, no feelings, no hopes, no weaknesses. The harsh command camedaily and almost hourly to our ears : and not even for workwell done, or faithful service, were we cheered by words ofcommendation.“ One day—we were not more than eleven years old-something turned our thoughts back upon the earlier amhappier time, when wo hud a true home, and were loveiand cared for. We were once more in the garden ancamong the sweet blossoms, as of old, and the mother, 01whose bosom w« had slept, sat under the grap* arbonrwhile he filled her lap with flowers. Th*re was a amile olove on her dear face, and her lips were parting with som<word of affection, when, to scatter into nothing these deaimages of the lonely boy, «ame the sharp command ofmaster, and in obedience we started forth to perform somneeded service. Our way was by the garden of which w6hare spoken: and it was on this occasion, and whiit .uesuddenly dissipated image of our mother among the flowerswas re-forming itself in our young imagination, that thsincident to which we have alluded occurred. VYe can ne\erforget the grateful perfume of those flowers, nor the strengthand comfort which the kind words and manner of the giverimparted to our fainting spirit. We took them home, andkept them fresh as long as water wonld preserve thoir lifeand beauty; and when they faded, and when the leave*fell, pale and withered, upon the ground, we grieved fortheir loss as if a real friend had been taken away.-“ It is a long, long time since that incident occurred ;but the flowers which there sprung up in our bosom arefresh and beautiful still. They have neither faded ’norwithered—they cannot, for they are unfading flowers. Wenever looked upon the man who gave them to us that ourheart did not grow warm toward him. Twenty years agewe lost sight of him : but if still among the dwellers 01earth, and in need of a friend, we would divide with himmr last morsel.”An old man, with hair whitened by the snows of manyvinters, was sitting in a room that was poorly supplied willurniture, his head bowed down, and gare cast dreamily!pon the floor. A pale young girl came in while he thufit musing. Lifting his eyes to her face he said, while htied to look cheerful,“ Ellen, dear, you must net go out to-day.*’ •< 1 feel a great deal better, grandpapa,” returned the girl,Wcing a smile. “ 1 am able to go to work again.’’“ No, child, yon are not,’’ sf.id the old man firmly ; andSu must not E.ink of snch a thing.”'Don't be so positive, grandpapa.” And as she uttered'is little sentence, in half positive voice, she laid her handlong the thin gray locks on the old man’s head, andtoothed them caressingly. You know that I must notfl»e idle.”‘‘Wait, child, until /our strength returns”“ Our ■wants will not wait grandpapa.' As the girl saidthis her fane became sober. The old man's ejes again fellto the floor, and a heavy sigh came forth from his bosom.“ 1 will be rery careful, and not overwork myself again,’resumed Ellen, after a pause.“ You must not go to-day.’’ said the old man, arousinghimself, “ it is murder, Wait at lease until to-morrovr.Yotf will be stronger then."“if I do not go back to-day, I may lose my place. Yobknow I have been home for three day*.“You were sick.’’“ Work will not wait. The last time 1 was kept away bysickness, a customer was disappointed : and there was agood deal of trouble about it.Another sigh came heavily from the old man’s heart“ f will go,” said the girl. “ Perhap* they will let meoff for a day or two longer. If so 1 will come back. ButI must not lose my place.”No further resistance was made by thft old man. In alittle while he was alone. Hours went by, but Ellen didnot return. She had gone to work. Her employer wouldnot let her go away, feeble as she was, without a forfeiture•f her place.About mid-day, finding that Ellen did not come biwk,the old mao, after taking some food, went out. The pres¬sure of seventy years was upon him, and his steps were•low and carefully taken.“ I mu»t get something to do. I can work •till,',1 bemuttered to himself, as he moved along the streets. “ Thedear child is killing herself, and all for me.'Bat what could he do? Who wanted the services of aneld men like him, whose mind had lost its clearn.-se, whosestep faltered, and- whose hand wm no longer steady I It?§? tin he made application for employment. Younger animore vigorous men filled all the places, and he was pushedaside. Discouraged and drooping in spirit, he went back tohis home, and here awaited the fall of tho evening, whichwas to bring the return of the only being left on earth tolove him. At night-fall Ellen came in. Her face, so palein the morning, was now slightly flashed; and her eyeiwere brighter than when she went out. The grandfatherwas not deceived by this; 1 e knew it was the sign of dis¬ease. He took her hand—it was hot; and When he bentto kiss her gentle lips, he found them burning with fever.“ Ellen, my child, why did you go to work to-day ? 1knew it would make you sick," the old man said, in a voiceof anguish.Ellen tried to smile, and to appear not so very ill; butnature was too much oppressed.1 brought home some work, and will not go out to-1 morrow,” she remarked. “ I think the walk fatigued msmore than anything else. 1 will tcel better in tho morning,after a good night's sleep.But the girl’s hope failed in this. The morning found her'»« weak that she could not rise from bed : and when hergrandfather came into her room t > learn how she had pas-'sed the ni fht, he found her weeping on the pillow. Shehad endeavoured to get up, but her head, which was achingterribly, grew dizzy, and she fell Lack under a despairingConsciousness that her strength was gone.1 The day passed but Ellen did hot grow better. The fe-. ver still kept her body p-chtrate. Ohce or twice, when her' grandfather whs out of the room, she took the work she hadbrought home, and tried to do some of it while sitting up inher bed. But, ore a minute ha 1 passed, she became faint,while all grew dark around her. She was no better when1 night came. If her mind could have rested—if she hadKaon fru» frrim «nvl.'»na urw^ ^iatrr>Mqinor tllOUijlltS, XlfttttXtwould hava had some power to react: but as it was thepressure u; on her was too great. She coul 1 not f<Hpgetthatthey had scarcely so much money as a shilling left, and thather old grandfather was t o feeble to vyorli. Upon herpested all the burden of their support, and she yvas nowhelpleas.On the next morning Ellen was better.—She could sjtup without feeling diz?y, though her head still ached, andthe fe er had only slightly abated. But the old man wouldnot permit her to leave the bed, though she begged himearnestly to let her do so.The bundle of work that Ellen had brought home waswrapped in a no vapaper, and this her grandfather took upto read so ne ti n. during thu day.‘ This i? Mr T ’s newspaper,said he, as ho ope irdit, and saw thu ti le. “ ( kue .v T when he was a pi o -little orphan b y. Bt t, of enur ;e, he don't remember me.He‘s prospered wo":ds f l!y.”And th»n his e^es went along the Qoluinrts of the paperand he read aloud to Ellen such things as he thought wouldinterest her. Among others was a reminiscence by the edi-tor-r-the same that we have just given.—The old man1*voice faltered as he petid.—The little incident, so feelinglydescribed, had long since been hi .den in his memory underthe gathering dust of time. But now the dust was sweptaway, and he saw his own beautiful garden. He was in itand among the flowprs; and wistfully looking through th«fence stood the orphan boy. He remembered havng feltpity for him, aod tie remembered now at uistinctly as if itwere but yesterday, th ugh thirty years had intervened,the light that went over t ia child’s face as ho handed hima few flowers that yy.-re to fade and wither in a day.Yes, the old man’s voice faltered as he read : and whenhe came to the last sentence, the paper dropped upon the$oor, and clasping his hands together, he l.fted his dim eye10upward, while his lips moved in whispered words of thank-fain essu“ What ails vou, grandpapa 1’’ asked Ellen, in surprise.But the old man did not seem to hear her voice.“ Dear grandpapa,‘‘ repeated the girl, “ why do you lookso strangely ?“ She had risen in bed, and was bendingtoward him.“ Ellen, child,“ said the old man, a light breaking overhis countenance, as though a sunbeam had suddenly comeinto the room, “ it was your old grandfather who gave tb«flowers to that poor little boy. Did you hear what he said ?—he would divide his last morsel.“The old man moved around the room with his unsteadysteps, talking in a wandering way, so overjoyed at theprospect of relief for his child, that he was nearly besidehimself. But there yet lingered some embers of pride tinhis heart; and from these the ashes were blown away, andthey became bright and glowing. The thought of a kinga favour as a return for that little act, which was to him, atthe time, a pleasure, came with a feeling ot reluctance.But when he looked at the pale young girl who lay withher eyes close and her face half buried in the pillow, hemurmured to himself, “ It is for you—for you !“ And takinj up his staff, he went tottering forth into the open air.The sditor was sitting in his office, writing, when heheard the door open, and turning, he saw before him an oldman with bent and snowy forehead. Something in thevisitor's countenance struck him as familiar; but he did netrecognize him as one whom he had seen before.“ Is Mr T in ?’’ inquired the old man.“ My name is T replied the editor.51 You ?" There was a slight expression of surprise in theold man‘s voice.“ Yes, I am T- , my friend,“ was kindly said.1 do anything for you P Take this chair.**11The oTerei seat was accepted; and as the old man sunk,into it, l.is countenance and manner betrayed his emotion,"I have come,“ said he, and his voice was unsteady, “ t®do what I could not do for myself alone, But I cannot seemy poor sick grandchild wear out and die under the weight«f burdens that are too heavy to be borne. For her sake 1have conquered my own pride.“There was a pause.“ Go on,” said T-*-, who was looking at the old manearnestly, and endeavouring to fix his identity in his mind.“ You don't know me ?‘‘“ Your face is not entirely strange,“ said T ■. It musthave been a long time since we mu.““ Long ? Oh yes? It is a long, long tims. Yon wsrea boy, and 1 unbent by age.““Markland!” exclaimed T—>—, with sudden energy,springing to his feet as the truth flashed upon him. “ Say—is it so.““ My name is Msrkland.1*“And do we meet again thus,” sail T , with emo¬tion, as h# grasped the old man’s hand. Ah, sir, I havenever forgotten you. When a sad-hearted boy, you spoketo me kindly, and the words comforted me when l had noother comfort. The bunch of flowers you gave me, youremember it, no doubt—are still fresh in my heart. Not aleaf has faded. They are as bright and green, and full ofperfume, as when I laid them there ; and there they willbloom for ever—the unfading flowers of gratitude. I amglad you have come, though grieved that your decliningyears are mad* heavier by misfortune. Heaven has smiled•a my efforts in the world, I hare enough, and to spare.1'“ I have not come for charity,“ returned Markland. “ Ihave hands, and they would not he idle, though it is notmuch that they can accomplish."“ Be not troubled on that account, myfriend,“ was kind12!jr amwered, “ 1 will find something for you to do. Hutfirst tell me all about yourself.41Thus encouraged, the old man told his story. It was thetommon history of loss of property and friends, and the ap¬proach of want with declining years. T saw that prid«and native independence was strong in Markland‘s bosom,feeble as he was, and unable to enter upon any serious em¬ployment ; and his first impulse was to save his feelings atthe same time that he extended to him entire and perma¬nent relief. This he found no difficulty in doing, and th*•Id man was soon after placed in a situation where but lit¬tle application was necessary, while the income was all-sufficient for the comfortable support of himself and grand-whild.The flowers offered with a purely humane feeling, provedto bo fadeless flowers; and their beauty and perfume cameback to the senses of the giver when all other flowers wer«dead or dying on his dreary way.—At*en«vm.If! Mj-il I ft* it A hneii. s'asra hfo add fiwivi  