EXPLICATIONA NO NTHOMAS HYMER’sPROPHECIES.Wherein is contained,rtain Remarks on what is already paft, with fome cu*'rious Obfervations on what is yet to come. Which igparefully collected, and compared with the old Scots’"rophecies and the Book of Arms,the famous Mr. ALLAN B 0 T D} M. A.cf the moft eminent in the Age for Learning andnowledge, who has pointed out the Place of live greatattles, yet to happen in Scotland, one in the North ofjiljEngland, on the River Tyne ; the Siege of Berwick,liStnd feveral other curious Things explained, yet to comei f o pafs.II ’U X >*;X.X>CxXVXXX>;X>C>0<XX>fXX^XxXX>O^XXOld Scottish PROPHECIES.i,SCOTLAND be fad now, and lamentthy child, whom thou haft loft,-Bereft of kings falfly undoneby thine unkindly hoft.II.Alas ! the free is bound become,and deceit is thy fall:The fallhood of the Britifh racehas brought thee into thrall.HI.The grave of the moft noble princeto all it great regret;Not fubjeft to law, who doth leavethe kingdom and eftate.IV.O anguifti great! where every kind,and ages doth lament;Whom bitter deatli has ta’en away,lhall Scotland lore repent.V.Lately a land of rich increafea nation ftout and true,Kas loft their former dear eftate,which they did hold of due.VI.By hard conflict, and by the chanceof mobile’s fortune’s force.Thy hap, and thy profperity,. is turned into worfe.( 3 )VII.Thou, won’t to win, now isfubdu’d,and come in under yoke :\ ftran;',er reigns, and doth deftroywhat likes him, by fword’s ftroke.VIII.he Englifla race, who neither force,nor manners do approve.f.Voe is to thee, by guile and flight| is only win above.IX.fhis mighty nation was, to foes,invicible, and flout :ijdas yielded low to deftiny,| great pity is, but doubt.X.former age, the Scots renowndid flourifh, goodly gay,jt now, alas L is overcladewith a great dark decay.XI.ten mark, and fee, what is the caufe| . of this fo wond’rous fall ;'tempt of faith, falfhood, deceit,the wrath of God withal.Xlf.iinfatiable greed of workjly gain,oppreflion, cries of poor,pel petual and fland’rous race,nojuftice put in ure.XIII.ne haughty pride of mighty men,of former vice chief qaufe,|ie nu;ritureof wickednefs,an unjuft match of laws.XIV.oerefon: this cafe the prophets told,and .ong time did prefagc.fC> 4 )As how has happened,, every point,in this our prefent age.XV.Since fate is fo, now Scotland learnin patience to abide ;Slanders, great fears and fudden plagues,and dolours more beiide.XVI.For out of thee lhall people rife,with divers happiuefs;And yet a pen can fearedy writethy hurt, flnith, and diitrefs.XVII.And yet beware thou not diftruft,altho’ o’erwhelm’d with grief,Thy Iboke is not perpetual,for thoj fhalt find relief.XVill.I do fuppofc, altho’ too late,old prophecies fhall hold ;Hope thou in God’s goodnefs ay,and meicies manifold.XIX.For thou, that now a patient is,and feemeth to be bound.At liberty fiiall free be let,and with empire renown’d.XX.From high above (hall grace come down,, and thy ftate, Scotland be,In latter end, more profperousthan former age did (ee.XXI.pid prophecrc.- foretel to thee,a warlike heif *he’s born,Who fhal! recover new his right,advance his kingdom’s horn.XXII.Then fiiall the Scots fword fweat with blood,and daughter which they make ;Tlieking bimfelf rc\xn^er fta!Ithe guilty troops down wrack,XXIII,The Ecglifh nation fhall invade,but not efcape a plague.With fword, with thirft, with tear1, and pert,with fears, and fuch like ague.When HEMPE is come, and alfo gone,Scotland and Enghnd fltall be one.K. K. Q; K. Q.Henry, Ebward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth,Praifed be God alone, for Hempe is come and gone,And left us,‘old Albion, by peace, joined in orie.^xxxxx*. x>ochxxx>ox>;x x>xx> xx xxxx^The EXPLICATION.THE explication of theabo ~ ' 1 'Hempe-being come, anScotland and England joined inKing William, who came out ci •tlouand, whta. otrtXXIV.And after enemies thrown down,and mattered by war ;Then Scotland, in peace, cuietlypafs joyful days for < ter.Xtxxxxxx^xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxXxXX^. VIII, VI. cf SpainMary's Hulband.HEMP£.1( 6 >t;ra js was vulgarly called the land of Hempe; and thej. inino the two nations, together fignify the union, Tboferiling was foretold by the two Scots prophets, in the reignof K ng Arthur, firll by the marvelous Merling, who isfaid to be got by a devil, who ravilhed a young woman, hismother, in a wood near Coldllram, in the fouth of Scotlandafterwards to the fime purpofe, thefe and many morellrange things was foretold of by Thomas Lermon, vulgar¬ly called Thomas Rymer, becaufe he fpoke all his prophe¬tical fayings in rhyme, and fo darkly that they could notfee underllood until they came to pals.This Thomas Lermon or Rymer, was born at Erfling-town, now called Hefclingtown, on Tweed fide, aboveKelfo. He is reported by hiftofians to be a quite foberman, given to no vice, but pn ne to piety and devotion, afamous monthly prognoft cator, concerning the (fate ofthe weather, and government of the world, by ftudyingthe afpe<fls of the planets.He being one day alksd by a nobleman what fort of aday they Ihoidd have to morrow ? to which he anfwered,that to-mo-rcw before high noon a blall (hould blow,:*'that Scotland fhould not overcome the evil thereof fortwenty years thereafter- The nobjsman «t-d many mo to,L.,;ing greatly amazed, and giving great attention, lookingy.for the blafl all nest day, till towards evening he lent forThoms, to rebuke him for the fa 1 (hood of his prophecy,s: d juft as he began to upbraid him Ire heard the found ofa polls horn, who came with the woful news, how theking .had been hunting, and had broke his neck over ac.'aig, the weft fide of the town of Kinghorn, from whichaccident the town derived its name. Now, fays Thomasto the nobleman, the blaft is blown ; and for twenty yearsafter there was no peace, but bloody wars in Scotland, ontli« account of who ftiould be king.Now, as to the reft of his prophetical fayings, they arehard to be underftood, bccatife they are pointed out by thec »ats of arms, which appertain to fo many different king-; doms and perfons. Yet, we obferve how lie has pointedplainly, many things which has come to pafs in ourisr , •'ll , «*S%sr -patioi. fc. IlSheriff nKi^rPays; fuch as the extirpjjStewarts; the revolution . _ -v,-»j particular of the rebellion in the years Iwhen pointing at it, he fays, “ A chieftain, unchufen,'! “ (lull chufe forth him felt, and rule the realm as his“ c'vn,” &c.When at king Charles, he calls him avfly . fox bird,who would turn to Chrift with toads or foxes tvyles,meaning his fwearitjg the covenants.When fpeaking of the battle of Preftonpans, in theyear i 745, he names the two very neighbouring village?,to the (pot of ground, whereon the battle was fought ;to wit, Goofe lourd green, and Seton, faying, “ Be-“ tween Seaton and the Sea forrow (hould be wr ughtand how 'hey (hould meet in the morning, by the lightof the moon; which ad really came to pals that morn¬ing the battle of Preitonpans was fought : But how theHon was hurt, at this time, and not peiceived, is yet arayftery. Some are of opinion, that it is by taking awaythe power, or fuperiority, from the Cbjjefs of the .high¬lands, fo that they canno; " ife 'Vn 1,1 V.eh a (hort timeas formerlyThefe are a few of the obfervations we make on thingsalready come to pafs; and what is yet to come, thereis Come remarks wiil yet happen, when the time drawsnigh ; fuch as, when Target’s Craigs (hall be turnedinto the fea. And, the next feafon, or hummer tlure-after, great forrows and bloodfhed (hall happen to thisrealm ; the chiefs thereof, efpeeially (uch is betray ti eircountry, (hall be harled on (itds, and chopping ofheads.This Tarbet ftands near the foot of the river Clyde,but whether its being tumbled into the fea (kali happen inan earthquake, thunder, or by the hands of men, ,s yet amyftery unknown.There is alfo mention made of a lord, with a luckenor double hand, which certainly is of royal blood, aiafwill bread great (dr andconfufion in Briuip.Hjie, and of tlie♦;m-s wii»*T'>tr;’iv,n fu!y: and> tbereis P^inly point- T. . -out, Mm-tn his time a great battle fhould be in i'ifeWhere fadled horfea fti-mld be feen,Tytd to the trees greed.Not only in Fife, but the font cbief river? in the realmthere fhouid be a battle on each of them, fiioulj mnke thenver, run with blood, to wit, Tweed, Clyde, Forthand Tay. ' ’And laft of all, a bloody defperate battle In Northum¬berland, on the river Tyne ; aifo, a great havoc andflaup.h er about the broad walls of Berwkk.Ail thefe things h yet to come to pali’and when thewrit appears, the reft will loon follow after.-~vf'i** ■- . t'UFINIS.:*■<■■■ . •r 1i.id