PATHETIC HISTORYOFCweoi*i*e BarnwellTHE LONDON APPRENTICE;Who, by keeping Company, and following theAdvice of aWOMAH OP THE TOWN,I Was reduced to the lowest pitch of Infamy; de-: tailing every Particuler of his guilty Career, fromthe robbing of his Master to the most dreadfulMURDER of his UNCLE ! for which he wasEXECUTED.GLASGOW ;PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLER5V OF SCOTLAND *1 Iswires m ?*‘gT09w>m vkhmoa shtr^rtiwcii'ol *■.• •.; tv.-! • r gni vd to*i //-rx'WO V i HT ‘.{O TSAKOW-sh ; y TiK'inl 1o i?: ? Jaswol ri/fj o9 briaub^i ei.W "■ '-rt J /! :, ''rHoisli rrtJi^I -• • r-- . . : , v.aaiuoa/jIVHISTORYOFCSeorge Barnwell#iGeorgs Barnwell was apprenticed to his un¬de, a merchant of the city of London, who had,jy his industry and prudence, amassed a veryonsiderable property, and at an advanced periodbf life retired from the active pursuits of businessto his seat in Surrey, where his hospitality and:|pcial disposition endeared him to an extensivecircle of acquaintance; and with this estimableijlnan George Barnwell spent three years, previ-us to his entrance into the bustling scenes of life.Arhilst an inmate in his uncle’s house, he gained|he affections of the old man, who often declared,hat after his death he should inherit his fortune.The person of George was tall, and his wholeI ehaviour marked with an elegance, rather un-ornmon in persons who, like himselt, had beenecluded from the scenes of lile—With theseualifications he entered into the counting-housef Mr. Strickland, a very considerable woollen-raper in Cheapside. For some time our hero’ssiduity and punctuality were so conspicuous, asrender him, in the eyes of Mr. Strickland, wor¬ry of the most implicit confidence; while, by histdefatigable exertion, he obtained a complete4proficiency in the counting-house department: ;perfect knowledge in mercantile transactions; ama degree of prudence in his dealings with othersrarely attained by persons of his age.About this time Maria, his cousin, and daughter of his worthy master, became sensible of tinmerits of George, ,and had too much candourand too little prudery to conceal an affection, tinobject of which appeared so highly deservingWith that unreserved confidence, which confer!the greatest honour on her character as a daugh'ter, she opened her heart to her parents, and ex'perienced the felicity of understanding, that wherBarnwell had gained more experience in theworld, ar.d had entered into business, her wislshould be gratified.Thus happily wras he situated in the bosom oia family w'hich esteemed him; thus did he dailymake a progress in their affections, which pro¬mised to lead to the most blissful and honourableconsequences; and thus fulfilling his duty tcothers, did he communicate gladness to his un¬cle’s heart, and establish his own reputation andserenity of mind. But this season of peacefulserenity lasted but for a short period, for temp¬tation led to vice, and Barnwell fell from virtue.Sarah Milwood was the daughter of a merchantin Bristol, who spared no expence in endowingher with every accomplishment; but her princi-0pies were undermined by the flatteries of thoseiwho surrounded her. She at length married aNMr Milwood, who two years afterwards lostihis life in a midnight broil. In the course of11her daily perambulations, she one morning en¬countered Barnwell, as he was coming out of ahouse in Lombard-street, and she resolved notuto let slip an opportunity of making a profitableadventure of her morning’s walk. No sooner;ihad she made up her mind on the subject, thanin observing him turn to view her with some atten¬tion, she made a false step, and, with a loudscream, fell on one knee. The ill-fated youth1 immediately tendered his assistance, and, raisingi her from the ground, she expressed her fearsP that she had dislocated her ancle, and she foundherself utterly unable to walk without his assis¬tance, and entreated that he would increase herobligations by assisting her to reach her residencein Cannon-street. Barnwell complied with herrequest, and conducted the artful woman to herhouse, where she insisted upon his entering andreceiving some refreshment.Eager to improve the moment, Milwood threwherself upon a sofa, and raising her leg from thei| ground, as if in agony, and apologising for herit apparent indelicacy, solicited the youth to exa-iti mine if the ancle appeared swollen. The re¬in quest, coupled with the appearance of a most(Micak'ly turned foot, produced an emotion iniour hero to which he had hitherto been a stran-lger. His agitation, notwithstanding his effort*to conceal it, did not escape her scrutinizing eye,and her hopes rose accordingly. She now con¬trived, in the course of conversation, to learmfrom Barnwell the particulars of his name andlconnections, and every other particular which:waS at all likely to facilitate her intended project;of seduction.Until this hour George’s heart had been un¬corrupted, and the first impressions of a vicious’nature were accompanied by the most bittersensations. Alarmed at this breach of fidelityto his master, he took his hat, and seizing the1hand of his seducer, begged of her to suft’er himto depart—a request which she would not com¬ply with, until she had extorted from him a pro¬mise to renew his visit the following evening.As he walked homewards, his eyes were fixed onthe ground, and his thoughts were deeply intentupon framing an excuse for his long absence; atlast, still hesitating and undetermined, he reach¬ed the counting-house. It was now he awoketo a proper sense of his situation : a thousandtimes he resolved to break his appointment withMilwood; and as often would he say to himselfthat the best proof he could give of his contrition. iwould arise from the triumph of his virtuous■ iiprinciples in the hour of temptation.Thus did the misguided youth reason himselfinto an opinion, that the second interview was. founded on the most excellent of motives; and,ujwhen the evening approached, forming an excuse’ffor his absence, he left his master’s house, andliiwith impatient steps hurried to Milwood’s resid-tnce. As he reached the abode of this depravedfoman, a strange fluttering of heart betrayed hismotions. If the imagination of Barnwell wasIready wrought to a dangerous warmth, his se-ond reception was calculated to increase it. Onj a crimson damask sofa, placed under a brilliantmirror illuminated with wax-lights, the syren Mil-iwood reclined. She did not rise as he enteredlathe room, but holding out a most beautiful arm,lencircled at the wrist with a brilliant bracelet,i|she motioned him to be seated. George doubtedj for a moment whether the woman of sentiment■ he had beheld on the preceding day, and thea wanton form now before him, were the same.'i She touched the strings of a harp which lay nearher, and the effect on Barnwell was instantane¬ous. Her embrace so infatuated him, as to des¬troy all his good resolutions, and his heart onceI more renounced its principles.This moment the artful woman directly fixedon to complete the ruin of Barnwell, and with8bewitching looks and expressions she graduallyseduced him.The morning brought with it a return of com¬punction, but the voice of Milvvood again sooth¬ed him into a degree of composure : and his mindwas gradually led to suppose the vice unto whichhe had fallen, as less wicked than it appeared atfirst; he listened with less pain to the observationsof his seducer, as to the necessity of her seekingnew apartments in the course of the day ; and tohis providing her with money, as she could notbear the idea of applying to her friends afterwhat had passed. Every thing which she re¬quested wras promised by her infatuated victim,who appeared to have sacrificed reason and dutyat the shrine of his unhallowed passion ; and, be¬fore he departed, Milwood promised to leave anote for him at a place which he appointed, in¬forming him of her new place of residence, wdiereshe expected him in the evening.The gentle and affectionate reproaches of theamiable Maria for his absence, and want of at¬tention to herself, revived in his breast the slum¬bering feelings of penitence and remorse ; butthey w-ere transient and ungrounded, and her ab¬sence destroyed their influence, and left him oncemore the prey of appetites, which now raged withuncontrolled fury. His attention to business,which until now had been indefatigable and un-ridilwearied, was remitted, and appeared to be the re-j suit of a painful struggle, rather than the effectof a will devoted to his master’s interest. Hav¬ing gained the information by letter from Mil-X wood, that she had removed to a lodging in Moor-ijifieldsj thither Barnwell repaired in the evening;(land, bringing with him a considerable sum ofi((money, he was welcomed by the designing wo-fian with an appearance of the sincerest affection.k.t this visit he related to her the suspicions whichis absence had occasioned, and consulted her ast o the most ready method of continuing his con-exion with her without the hazard of a discovery.Milwood determined to try the nature of hisItachment to her, declared, in reply, that as shead taken these apartments, she expected that heould give up his companions, quit his master’souse, and take up his residence with her; who,s she said, had given up every thing on his ac-Slcount. On consideration of his putting this pro¬ject into execution on the following day, she con¬sented to allow his absence on that night; and,after an hour or two, Barnwell submitted to theconditions w inch his mistress had imposed, andi accordingly took his leave of her.A thousand thoughts now engaged his harassednmind ; it was the grand struggle between virtuoushonour to his master and patron, and all power-ilful illicit love to a fascinating wicked woman10Love seemed to have gained entire ascendencyover him; and just as he had made up his mindto inform his uncle he could no longer remainwith him, his kind patron met him at the door,and received him with more than his usual affec¬tion, which recalled poor Barnwell’s scatteredsenses of honour to so good a master, that he al¬tered his resolution, and determined to. forgetMilwood, and by attention repay the favours hehad received from his uncle.He became thus more composed, and settledto his business with all his wonted assiduity; tillone morning, being just on the point of goingout on business, a woman knocked at the doorwith a letter for him; it was from Milwood.Trembling with emotion, he opened it; it wasfull of this wicked W'oman’s pretended misery innot seeing him for so long a time, and statingher destruction if he neglected her. It was word¬ed with such tenderness, that for the momentshe regained his affection; and placing the let¬ter in his pockets he uttered to the bearer, “ Iwill come.”When the evening arrived, our hero again pro¬cured leave of absence until the following morn¬ing, and he again hastened to the house of infamy.When he entered, Milwood, with feigned regret,threw herself into his arms, and entreated him toforgive the impetuosity of her conduct, so incon-ssistent with her affection for one whom she prizedso highly; to which the credulous youth listen¬ed. Before Barnwell left his mistress on theifollowing morning, she had intimated to him theinecessity of procuring a fresh supply of money,as her funds were again nearly exhausted; theenamoured youth promised to comply, and vow¬ed that nothing should induce him to cause herfuture unhappiness This declaration was re¬ceived by Milwood with a great show of grati-ude, and she entreated him to come every even¬ing, if he only remained with her a single hour;e assented, and took his leave.Weeks thus crept on, and as Barnwell’s aft’ec-ion for his seducer was ever on the increase,is love for Maria naturally declined. Still,iowever, to save appearances, he continued toay her his customary attentions ; but they wereot the effusions of sincere love, and the scrutin-zing eye of affection did not fail to observe theonstraint which marked his conduct. Many.vere the unhappy hours which the discoveryost Maria.But notwithstanding our youth appeared stillittentive to the duties of his business, his visitso his wicked mistress were observed with theost rigid punctuality. She never failed to drainaim closely, whenever she found he had receivedtjnev ; and often-times wras he compelled to draw12upon the liberality of his uncle, in order to sup¬port her extravagance, and gratify her rapacity.The time however was at hand, when Milwoodbegan to extend her views, and to discover stilldeeper designs upon her ill-fated victim. Shecomplained at first witli an appearance of tender¬ness, which gradually gave way to a more reprov¬ing manner, of the supplies which he brought her.In vain did the unhappy* Barnwell urge, thathe had already drawn from* his generous uncle,until he was ashamed tfo solicit any further con¬tributions towards his extravagance 5 thatdre hadnot only received all the* wages that were due,but that he was even in arrears with his master.Every thing was urged in vain ; and when drivento desperation by her continued reproaches, hehe exclaimed, * ‘What would you have me to do?’Milwood, with a sarcastic sneer replied, “Do youask such a question^ who have continually youremployer’s money vested in your hands ?’’Never, until this moment, had the idea of rob¬bing his master been suggested to him; and thesensation which followetl it was dreadful in theextreme. Distressed beyond measure, his spirits <sunk, and more than once a full resolution wras ?formed, to quit his mistress for ever, than to sup- iport her by dishonest means; but, alas! its in- ;fluence was transient.The evening approached rapidly—the hour (<13Idrew nigh, at which he hart pledged himself toicarry to Milwood, the spoils of hk integrity.!Thrice he opened his desk, and as often did heclose it again, unable to summon, courage enoughtO'commit the act he meditated.:/ At this instantihe glanced at tire clock.—>a cjuarter to seven, andi seven was‘the hour appointed; a shivering seiz-led him, and a tremor crept over him, as he seiz¬ed the lid for the fourth time. He cast his eyesfearfully and cautiously round him; no personwas present, he hesitated, stretched out his hand,and drew from the drawer a bank-note of onehundred pounds, the lid fell from his hands, and,with a faint sigh, tire unhappy youth hurried theplunder into his pocket, sunk back into his seat,and for a moment lost all recollection.Hurrying out of the house, Barnwell hasten¬ed, in a state of madness to Milwood’s lodgings.No sooner had he entered her apartment, than,with bitter sighs, he threw the note before her;which his mistress no sooner saw-, than she gras¬ped it in her hand, and assuming the most be¬witching tenderness, she exclaimed, “ My dear¬est Barnwell why this agonizing emotion ? hasany tiling occurred to.distress you, which the un¬alterable ioye of your MUwood, may not allevi¬ate? Deceived by tliis appearance of uncommonaffection, Barnwell poured forth in her ear thetale of his feelings and his sufferings, on accountof the unpardonable step lie hud taken. Whenhe had ended, he threw himself into Milwood’sarms, and gave way to the bitterness of his grief.On meeting his master the following morning,the unfortunate victim of vice hid his face, andsought, by fixing his attention upon business, tolose for awhile the sense of what he had done.Every succeeding day assisted to tranquilize hismind, and to render the recollection of his crimeless irksome : through the liberality of his uncle, ,he was fortunately enabled to repay the money ,he had taken, before it was necessary to make uphis accounts for his employer’s inspection.Christmas arrived, and the liberality of his un¬cle and his master enabled Barnwell to make jhandsome presents to his mistress, which render¬ed her more loving and attentive than ever.Soon after this Milwood proposed to give upthe lodgings, and make her own house the sceneof their future affection, as, she said much expenceMwould be saved. She then continued to urge himijjfor more money, which the infatuated youth com-||'jplied with; having received a considerable sum, ?|,which he should not have to account for for some |j;time, he took two hundred pounds, to Milwood. |jiOur hero had now become politic in his guilty J,'conduct, and he managed so well in his concealmentas effectually to impose on his roaster, who, stillretained his original opinion of his worth. True-ij man, indeed, who had been, from their lirst intro-I duction, the tried and sworn friend of George,ji observed a change in him, which escaped the no¬tice of those who were contented with a more sup-fj erficial view of his conduct.A month only had sufficed for Mihvood to spendthe money which our hero had secreted from hismaster's service, and another demand was madeiupo«n his liberality. At first he resisted the evi¬dent, extortion of his mistress; but finding it invain to contend, and being required in the cus¬tomary manner either to bring a fresh supply of) money at his next visit, or to come to her house■ ino more, the poor victim returned home, ftdlyirepared to lay his master’s property again underontribution. He thought little now about re¬placing what he should take away, since as thedebt accumulated, he became more desperate, andcareless of the result.From this moment the artful wToman assumeda degree of despotic rule over her unresisting vic¬tim, w'hich she never before attempted; since, asJshe justly calculated, his mind being completelyvitiated, he was willing to become her instrumentin the execution of any designs, however remotefrom honour or rectitude. Her demands uponhis purse now became unremitted, and his pre¬sence was received with either smiles or frowns,iu proportion as he came loaded with golden of-16ferings to the deity who presided in this unhal¬lowed temple. His salary, and the supplies ofhis uncle, were greatly incompetent to the expell¬ees which Barnwell thus plunged into continual¬ly ; and he was, of course, obliged to have re¬course to his master’s .property.But it w:as not possible for tins course to con¬tinue long unnoticed ; his daring and increasingcalls being so unqualified and frequent,, and theday of reckoning rapidly approaching. .As thisdreadful period drew near, the ten-ors of Barnwellbegan to revive; and the more he thought of theimpossibility of meeting the deficiences his crimeshad occasioned, the more hisapprebensions gainedground; but when he imparted his fears to Mil-wood, she laughed at his pusillanimity; and herembraces and the intoxication of guilty pleasure,proved effectual in drowning for a time the sobervoice of reason : and a temporary forgetfulness ofgrief was eagerly resorted to, in the absence ofevery consolation of a more cheering and per¬manent nature.From this moment, Barnwell resolved to ab¬sent himself from his duty ; but, previous to thisstep, he resolved to make free with the remain¬der of the property entrusted to him, whichamounted to above £300.But the idea of deserting Maria (although notso painful as it would have been some time since),was not entertained without some uneasiness;since he had continually poured in her ears vowsof fidelity and love, even at the moment w’hen hisheart was paying homage to the abandoned Mil-wood; and he could not fecottcile himself to thethought, that he must Soon be looked upon withhorror and detestation, by a family which hadbeen used to love and confide in him. Barnwellbeing resolved to leave his home, addresssed thefollowing letter to Maria:—“ Makia,—I know my absence will surprisemy honoured master and yourself; and the more,v'hen you shall understand that the reason of mywithdrawing is, my having embezzled part of thecash entrusted to my care. After this, it is need¬less to inform you I shall return no more.Though this might have been known by exam¬ining my accounts, yet to prevent that unneces¬sary trouble, and to Cut off all fruitless expecta-tations of my return, I have left this from the lost“ GeorOe Barnwell.”The sight of the other clerks making up theiraccounts with unclouded brows, was agonizingin the extreme to the unfortunate youth ; and theevening had scarcely closed in, when rifling thedesk of its contents, he rushed out of the house,and stayed not till he had reached the house ofhis mistress. Throwing himself on a seat, in anagony of despair, he exclaimed, “ It is over! I18have given the finishing stroke to my crimes, anddeserted my good old master!”Milwood, on hearing this, eagerly enquired ifhe had secured any property ; and, as he answer¬ed in the affirmative, and threw his ill-gottenspoils into her lap, she almost devoured him withkisses, called him her saviour and her love, andtold him her arms should shelter him from everyevil. At this unlucky moment, Barnwell men- ,tioned that his uncle had called upon him, when !the vile woman, with her artful questions, drewfrom him an account that the worthy old gentle- |man had drawn a considerable sum from his bank- |er’s hands, with an intention to go on thefollow’-ing day to a distant fair.No sooner had Milwood obtained these particu¬lars, than she began to toy with him with re¬doubled affection, throwing her arms around hisneck, and having reduced him to a state of tem¬porary madness, by liquors, she ventured to hintat a method which, if adopted, she said, could 'jnot fail to produce a considerable booty. The ;unfortunate youth eagerly enquired the method,when Milwood proposed that he should lay inwait for his uncle, and murder him, so as to gainthe treasure which he possessed.‘ Gracious God !' exclaimed Barnwell, £ what!add murder to robbery ! Am I sunk so low as ■to be thought capable of such a crime? 1 have J |n<19ijulready forfeited all which ought to make lifeit dear—my honour and integrity; but yet there: is a charm. Oh ! my Alilwood, will nothing lesssatisfy thee than the blood of my revered uncle ?If it will not, say but the word, and by heavenhe dies, if it will but gain a smile from thee!”Milwood overwhelmed him with caresses, andl"[praised the generous affection which animated his4)bosom. She continued to strengthen his mind[j by her arguments, and, before bed-time, it wasresolved that Barnwell should sally forth to ac¬complish the diabolical purpose—The next dayAlilwood gradually revived the subject of the in¬tended murder. The resolution of the youthseemed to be wound up to a desperate pitch, andhe frequently exclaimed, “ Yes, yes, give me aweapon that cannot err.” About 8 o’clock thewretched victim arose; his ghastly appearance,his beamless eyes, his hollow cheeks, and mon¬otonous tone of voice, struck an inexpressible ter¬ror into her guilty soul, and, by all the endear¬ments of artful love she strove to recall him tohis wonted cheerfulness. But, alas! peace wasflown for ever from his mind, and the imperviousand immoveable gloom of despair had their fixedits habitation. He struck his clenched handswith uncommon violence against his temples, andij gnashed his teeth with bitter agony. “ Am Inot a wretch indeed!” heat length exclaimed,“ not only to rob my master, who placed nn-bounded confidence in me, but I must also mur¬der my beloved uncle ! Oh ! Milwood, revokethe cruel sentence you have passed; bid me notadd murder to my long list of irrevocable crimes,and I will worship you for ever!”“ Away with this hypocritical whine, Barn¬well,’’ exclaimed Milwood; “ have you so deter¬mined to break your resolutions of last night ?Come, come, there is too much time lost already;the sun-beams have risen above the window, andyou told me old Barnw ell is an early man. Hereis brandy—drink deep !—again, and yet again !”Hurrying out of the house with the utmosttrepidation, the unfortunate young man slunkthrough the streets, afraid to raise his eyes fromthe ground, least they might encounter some per¬son who should claim aequantance. After walk¬ing for an hour, he espied a person coming acrossa field towards him, who he immediately recog¬nized to be his uncle. At the first sight a secrethorror chilled his blood; but the recollection ofMilvvood’s words, aided dy the intoxicating fumesof the brandy which Milwood had plied him with,soon expelled the unwelcome sensation.At length his unsuspecting benefactor enterednear a clump of trees, and he resolved to inter¬cept him. With this intention he increased hisspeed, keeping considerably to his right, till he21j was at a little distance before him; and when by| the side of a large tree, he levelled the fatal'! weapon, and drawing the trigger, the best of men! fell weltering in his blood. No sooner did he:| behold the dreadful effects of his crime, than heiii sunk, overpowered by the violence of his feelings.. The shock, however, was temporary, and he re-(ja covered himself sufficiently to escape before anyj ) person appeared in sight: after having rested him-Iself a little while, he called a coach, and in a shorttime was with Milwood.—From the moment ofhis departure on the dreadful errand, Milwoodhad been in a continual state of trepidation, bothof body and mind. The agitated manner—andfrenzied appearance of her victim, at his outset,had raised terrible apprehensions in her bosom,lest by incautiousness and alarm, he might leadto suspicion ; and she had no doubt, that if in¬terrogated closely as to the cause of the murder,he would confess the whole of the circumstances,and probably implicate her as being an accom¬plice in the murder. Such reflections were illcalculated to make her easy ; added to which, thelong absence of the youth increased her fears; hehad departed at eight o’clock, and she fully ex¬pected him back by twelve : it was now past four,and the day began to wane; but, when Barnwellopened the door, and with the air and wildness ofinsanity fell senseless into a chair, she hastily22sprang to the door, and bolting it, exclaimed,“ Tell me, for heaven's sake, are you pursued;or have you been fortunate enough to escape sus¬picion ?”—“ I have escaped !” exclaimed Barn¬well, “ from every thing but my own conscience,and that will pursue me every where;” and throw¬ing the bag of money upon the table, he heaveda deep sigh, and fell insensible on the floor.Milwood summoned her servant, and by their un¬ited eftbrts he was restored to his reason; whilehis mistress was counting over the dear-boughtplunder, convulsive sobs rent the agonized frame |of the murderer. Milwood upbraided him for !his villainy in murdering his uncle; to rob himof life, nature’s first, last, dear prerogative; tell¬ing him she would not hazard her life by screen- jing him. At this treatment Barnwell became al¬most frantic. “ Oh, Milwood !” said he, “ ifyou hate me, if you wish me dead, then are youhappy; for, oh ! ’tis sure my grief will soon endme.” Milwood exclaimed, “ In this madness 1you will discover all, and involve me in your |ruin.” After pausing awhile, she said, “ To pre- jserve myself, I must hand him over to justice,” >and immediately called in a servant, requesting *an officer to be brought to seize Barnwell; 4 for,’said she, ‘ if I suffer the villain to escape, I maybe thought as bad as he.’ The servant having jleft the room, Barnwell begged Milwood to stopthe messenger, exclaiming: “ !Tis fit I die, in¬deed, but not by you I will this instant throwmyself into the hands of justice; for death is allI wish. But thy ingratitude tears my woundedsoul, ’tis worse ten thousand times than deathwith torture!” ‘ I care not,’ said Mil wood: a‘ Iam willing to live, and live secure, which nothingbut your death can warrant.” The servant, withtwo officers, now entered the room. ‘ Sir,’ saidshe to one of them, ‘ take this youth into yourcustody ; I accuse him of murder, and will appearto make good my chargeBarnwell was seizedand hurried to prison. His master had been informed by Milwood’s female servant of his mis¬tress’s diabolical proceedings, and went to thelodgings of the monster Milwood, and upbraidedher for the villainy of her conduct. Milwoodtried to extenuate her guilt: ‘ Well may I,’ saysshe, to Barnwell’s master, ‘ curse your sex, whorobbed me of reputation ere I knew its worth,then left me, to count its value by its loss. Whatare your laws, of which you make your boast,but the fool's wisdom, and the coward’s valour,the instrument and screen of all your villanies ?By them you punish in others what you act your¬selves, or would have acted, had you been in theircircumstances. The Judge who condemns thepoor man for being a thief, had been a thief him¬self, had he been poor.’The ill-fated Barnwell, in a few days was putto the bar, to take his trial. The evidence broughtagainst him was conclusive, and, after a mostaffecting and impressive address from the judge, |the jury returned a verdict of ‘ Wilful Murder !’ jThe sentence pronounced, the prisoner shed tears, jand the whole court sympathised in his fate, jBarnwell’s attention was abstracted from earthly ithings. His old employer came to see him, whodisplayed a father’s feelings, wishing that he had jknown his situation before the fatal murder. Ah!the moment of separation, was such as to renderforce necessary to divide them. The feelings ofMaria, who accompanied her father, may betterbe imagined than described. When she beheldthe unhappy youth, with his arms folded, con¬versing with the clergyman, she screamed aloud,and fell senseless on the floor. From this timeshe pined away, and died of a broken heart.The evening now closed in, the waning hoursdenoted the rapid approach of that awful mo¬ment, when he must resign his earthly being,the whole of which time he passed in devotion,reposing about two hours, he arose, and preparedto go through the awful ceremony. Mountingthe cart which waited to receive him, he was con¬veyed to the place of execution.FINIS.