Duke of Gordon'sThree Daughters,f ’ 1 • 731 ! : ...ira H'UJCU A«E ADDED, /■;,'fi.b a bcr. rfinorngvlawi A,.Mary I believ’d tfiee true,ANDPrince Charlie.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE JJOOKspl • ^ >s.• 3HiThe Duke of Gordons Daughters.& nolriovS toThe Duke of Gordon had three daughters,Elizabeth, Margaret and Jean :They would not stay in bonny Castle Gordon,But they went away to bonny Aberdeen.They had not been in bonny AberdeenA twelvemonth and a day,Till Jean fell in love with Captain Ogilvie,And away with him went she.Word came to the Duke of Gordon,In the chamber where he lay,How lady Jean fell in love with a captain,And from him she would not stay,Go saddle me the black horse, he cry’d,My servant shall ride on the grey,And I will go to bonny AberdeenForwith to bring her away.They were not a mile from Aberdeen,A mile but only one,Till he met with his two daughters,But away was lady Jean.O where is your sister maidens ?Where is your sister now :O where is your sister, maidens,That she’s not walking with you ;O pardon us honoured father !O pardon us they did say :Lady Jean is wivh Captain Ogilvie," A.ad from him she will not stay.sWhen he came to bonny Aberdeen,And down upon the green,There he did see Captain Ogilvie,A training of his men.«diniJ ym Jugnot y7!t blod OO woe be to the Captain Ogilvie!And an ill death thou shalt die.For taking to thee my daughter,High hanged shalt thou ne.The Duke of Gordon wrote a broad letterAnd sent it to the king,To cause him hang brave Captain Ogilvie,If e’er he caused hang any man..•tNo I will not hang Captain Ogilvie,For any offence that I see.But I’ll cause him to put off the scarlet,And put on the single livery, notNow word came to Captain Ogilvie,In the chamber where he lay,To strip off the gold and scarlet,And put on the single livery.If this be for bonny Jeannie Gordon,This penance I’ll tak wi’,If this be for bonny Jeannie Gordon,All this and more I’ll dree.Lady Jean had not been marriedA year but only three,Till she had a babe in every arm,And another on her knee.jbrusr' ioo •lolj.n) ■ n eAO but I’m weary weary wandering !4O but my foi'Uine i* bad,It sets not the Duke of Gordon’s daughterTo follow a .stfldier lad.O bold your tongue, bonny Jean Gordon,O hold thy tongue my lamb,For once I was a noble captain, ,jNow for thy sake a single man..intrlguab ytn nnrij J gniJsJ ioHO high was the bids and the mountains,Cold was fche frost and the snow ;Lady Jean's shoes were all torn, ,g fcnANo farther could she go, ^ o']'0 if I were in the glens ofFoudlen,Where hunting I have been,1 could go to bonny castle Gmvt.,nO bold your tongue bonny Jeante Gordmn,( 0 hold your tongue my dowj 9mc.3 i .I’ve but one half-crown in the world* >Til buy hose atuTshoon to you.When she came to bonny Castle Gordon,And coming over the green,The Porter cried out, with a loud voice,Yonder comes our lady Jean. ,,\ou are welcome bonny Jeanie Gordon,You are dearly welcome to me,You are welcome, dear Jeanie -Gordon,But away u ith your Ogilvi#..Now over the seas went the CaptaifljAs a soldier under command;Without either stockingsl#M odj Tlo Juq ol reij 931] ol rri;1 nauBO H‘i Ju8noinoO ainnegL ynnod lot nd eidiiinbnaw yiasw yiBSw rn'I Jno 05Put a messenger soon foHcrvyed after,Which caused a countermand.'.‘i3 aoil oini icui edi djiWCome home now, pretty Captain bgilvie,To enjoy your brother’s land ;Come home now, pretty Captain Ogilvie,You’re the tleit' U Northtimberlpnd.O what does this mean ? says the Captaib,Where’s tfry brcrther’s land •Come home now, pretty Captain Ogilvie,Your the heir of Northumberland.O what does this mean? says the Captain,V\ here’s my brothers children three?0 they are all dead and buried,Ihe lands are all ready for thee.Ihen hoist up your sails, brave Captain,And let’s be jovial and free;I’ll go home and haVe my estate*And then my dear Jeanie Tli see.• onfiT? Ol JIBOii .t-ri. . 9U1, yittVJ ’> : '■•. • I* f y».He soon caftte to bbhny Castle Gordon,And then at the gate stood he;The Porter cCy’d out with a loud shoot,Here comes Captain Ogilvie !You’re welcome pretty Captain Ogilvie,Your fortune's advanced I hear,No stranger can chine to mV gates.That 1 do lov© so dear.> JiiiJq rmr.nt do' ni ' f ;ij"-; •„ ,Sir the last time I was at your gateYou would not let.me in ; „01 am come for my wiife and children,6No friendship else I claim.Then she came tripping down the stair,With the tear into her ee,One babe she had at every foot,Another upon her knee.You're welcome, bonny Jean Gordon,\rou‘re dearly welcome to me,You're welcome bonny Jean Gordon,Countess of Northumberland to be.Now the Captain came off with his lady,And his sweet babies three,Saying, Tm as good blood by descent,Tho' the great Duke of Gordon you be.Prince Charlie.; y.. iJii'/oj loi buAWhen Charlie first came to the North,With the manly looks of a Highland laddie,Moved every true Scottish heart to warm,To guard the lad wi‘ the tartan plaidie.Love, farewell,—friends, farewell,To 'guard my king, I’ll bid all farewell.:v[; /i it'n ‘nfMil )'!■'* r*rfior)i'iW *ji *ivWhen king Geordy heard of this,Tliat he'd gane North to heir his dadie,He sent Sir John Cope to the North,For to catch him in his tartan plaidie.jt.'.n inoY in sc v 1 ot.f 1 Jsfil odt nBut when Cope come to Inverness, fThey told him he was soutfti already:7I must like a lion conquer all,By virtue of the tartan plaidie.When they came to Aberdeen,The English fleet was lying readyTo carry them over to Edinburgh town,If they’d catch the lad vvi’ the tartan plaidir.On Prestonpans he formed his clans,Where many a baby lost its dadie,Our noble Prince stood on the front,And wasna ashamed to shew the plaidie.Sir John Cope address’d his men,Saying, if you’ll be both stern and stead r,Thirty thousand pounds you’ll haveTo catch the lad wi’ the tartan plaidie.Then our noble Prince address’d his men,Saying, if you’ll both stern and steady,I’ll set you down in this Kingdom free,If you fight with me for to keep the plaidie.The Duke of Perth was on his right,The bold Monro and the brave GlengaryFrom the Isle of Sky the brave Lochiel,Maclarens bold and brave Macredy.On Prestonpans he formed his clans,Regarding neither son nor dadie;Like the wind of the sky they made them flyWith every shake of the tartan plaidie.A painted room and a silken bed,Will hardly please a German lairdie,But a far better prince than ere be wasLay amang the heather in hi ■ tartan plaidie.rp /n A; iutlA,nAit oia'I98Mary, I Believed thee True.Mary I believ d thee tiue,And I was blest in thu? believing,But now 1 mourn that e’er.I k-nbw,A girl so fair and so deceiving;.*>iLi«.!<t i..<: : ir!t 'i r be I i; ;!j: - t]Few have ever lov’d like nseOh ! I have lov’d thee tooisincerdy;And few have e’er deceiv’ddske thee,Alas! deceived me too severdy ;. ton.' -ill b‘»i-jii;bi. otjoD rnloL lie!Fare thee well !—yet think a while,.On one, whose bosom bleeds to doubt thee—Who now would rather trust.ta»n smile,And die with thee than live without thee.Fare thee well!— I’ll thjnit on thee!Thou leav’st me many a bitter token,Tor see, distracting woman ! see-My peace is gohe, my heart is broken.^ JHT91. :eirl bvirntA art auatfimKai*! nOFINIS,i- ’ ‘hi .1: '■;;!> . 1j;1o baht odt 3>fiJ•hi. ■ u fi a om bslniac; /,,SM?r!"'d in. . ’ n e • jo'q’ylfc md IfiW.