theENTERTAININGHISTORYOF THEE ARLY YEARSGeneral Bonaparte,I COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF THEFRENCH FORCESIN THE LATE WAR fiETWEENGreat Britain and France.B VA Kotal lmigrant,Bonaparte’s • Sct'ed-Cmpa»lns.K'IPrintebSTIRLING:AND SOLD BY C. RANDA&Lr_ I&04, .I Jpf SCOTU^D ^THEENTERTAIN NG HISTORYO FGeneral Bonaparte.<* # # ## # # <HE following account of tfe early yearsof Bon aparte is from the ptn of a NobleEmigrant, who was his fchool-companion.It was tranflited by a moft refptdableGentlem m, to whom the Trench autnor isintimately known as a man of unimpeachedprobity candour and good f nfe , and there¬for the narrative mty be confi iered Au.thertic. The work, from which it is ex¬tracted appeared in print fqine time ago,but was cahed in immediately after publi¬cation, for redfoiis which now no longerexifl. ft appeared in the Kelfo Mai! theeditor of which fays hs had it from thetranflttor.Bonaparte ofaftmiiy originally Italian,was oorn, in the year 1769 at Calvi, 1 littletown of Coifica of parents noble but poor ;his godTather, the celebrated Paoli gavehim at the font the nanie of Napoleone.—■}If 3 \Madame de B^nap^irte, hi? mofher, <hand,fome as they fay) had attra&ed the atten¬tion of the Count de Marboe af. named byLouis XV, to- the g vernment of Corfica ;and it is to him that malice af:rir>es thehonour of the hero’s bir h. Should thisbe true, it would give force to the world’swild opinion, yvhich inciia s to bellow on;children, the offspring of unlawful love,a more decided and manly charter.—I However that may be, the Count de Mar-Iboeuf had given m >ny tellimonies of |riend-fhip and good-will towards the family ofBonaparte j and had particularly tasen onhimfe'f the care ot the young man, whomhe had a long tipie aflifted with his creditand his purfe In 1788 the Count haddefigned to fend his young protege toFrance, with,the view of giving him aneducation fuitahle to his birth, and necef-. 'i'ary to his future eftablilhment.trance, under the ancient government,. ani more par icuLrly under the reign ofLouis XV. an i of Louis XVI. had formed! eilabliihments for the education of gentle¬men of fmali fortune ; and the munificenceof the kings had {pared nothing to renderthem, at the fame time, uLful and agree-table to young men Th le inltitutions,''Called Ecoles Royales Militaries were to[the numotr of thirteen, and dlablilhed in. milfereat provinces of the kingdom $ that of( 4 )Paris ferved as a centre to the whole an*dwas the objvft to which the young men,admitted by the King directed thei. views.It was held up as a recompeoce to tholewho mart diftiuguifhed themielves by their :prognfs in -!he differ.-nt fludies. For thatpurpcfe a royal infpe£tor, common ly aOeneral OIBcer, accompanied by two Mem- jbers i f the Academy, made every year a re¬view of the fehools. The examiDinion was imade in his prefence with the umd fcrup- ,ulous exaflnefs, and thofe of the pupilswho, to their proficiency in fludy, receivedthe teftimonv of the Regents in favours oftheir character, were admitted to the Mili¬tary School of Paris.From their entrance info the fchcol at an :early age. the mines and bodies of the. pupilswere kept in cpnlh nt employmeju ; and tneir jinltru&ion continued tor 7 or 8 years ; cur- ring which time, the molt unremitting care \Was equally bellowed on all. The molt iable mailers in every branch gave up alltheir time to ditedt the ftudies of the youth, •„and inipire them with fen irnents of virtue,The ftuuy of ancient and modern languages, yof hiltcry, of geography, ot mail ematics, cand the various branches of military iaence,formed the nafis of ih’ir education. And in rthefe efta&lifhments while the utmoft arten- ^tion was paid to youthful infti-uduon, the a-greeable was not forgotten y that, by r en-' 5 ^dsrin^ frrence amhble the youth mrght notcontr?ct thst ^rvne^s of mann'‘r which toofrequently accompanies profound erudi’ion.fr was in one of tKefe f,hools th t theCount <fe Mjrboe i.f was defirous to p’;cethe young B' naparte. Corfu'a fin :e beingjunit'. -1 to France, had obtained for its in-|habitants among other privileges that ofItfharing the rovil hmefrence fo that the|Coun' had no difficulty to procu’e foe tdsprotege the. place of one of the'Eleves du Rou■ Ihe Vlarechal de -'uger, then. Nlmifltfr|of Var, and charged with the department|pf Military behoofs, placed Bonaparte in.|th it of Brlenn - in Campagne; in which|he en er.d 1 believe, in the beginning ofif the ye.^r 17^9It was about fifteen or eighteen months(•afterwards ’that my father, availing himfelf, on the right which all ft rangers of familyhad to educate their children in thefe royalinfiit'stions, fent me there to begin my -edu-l|eation. Different in temper and chara&er;:and younger than Bonaparte, l formed nocp rticular frieodfhip with him, but livingunder the fame roof, and {haring "the Dme:;£xjrcifes, l remarked him early as fome-thing extraordinary perceiving no one a-ofjnong one hunt red an(j youffis, who in.lithe leaft refembled him either in difpofitionnor tafte. In this l only confirmed an idea¥ery generally allowed, that children ate.■( $ )/cTten more obferving than they appear to be.Of this, curiofity is probably in them the< nly caufe, being more eager in youth thanadvanced age; and a young perfon withouttroubling himfelf about the reafon. whichhis faculties are not yet able to reach hashi' attention attrafted and fixed only bythat which ftrikes him. Bonaparte, with'inilinafions different from his companions,]feparated himfelf from us, and thereforebecame, naturely enough, the object ofour obfervation.I do not recollect that he ever fhev/ d tthe flighted: pirtiality in favour of any of this comrades ; gloonty and fierce to excefs, jiiaimofl always by nimfelf one might fay.i(that, newly iflued from a fonft and till cthen withdrawn from the fight of men, he tnow began, for the fird tiuie to feel the .jimprefiions of furp ife and of fu'pictoA.— ■Continually alone, avtri'e like wife to a l \that is called children's plavs and amufe-jj:m n:s, he never was feen to fnare in the |noify mirth of his fohooi fellows ! very farfrom that, if fometimes he c- me among; j:them ir was only to. find fau't notwith-Mrflanding the known danger to which a boy*pedagogue, inevitably ex^oles himtelf. by r. leprimaiiding his young companions. a.-danger of which his growing courage hadearly taught him not to be afraid; for j,fattacked by a number of our fchooi-''( 1 \ifelloTS, whom his o^enfive raillieers hidiiprovcked. I have /een him repeh with thelutmoft Jan^ froid their blows and unitedfcfforts ! t hus lo youn^, Bonaparte feemed«ito difdain to be no more but a child as if)|h£ had already for^fe^n that deftiny wouldnpre day call him to furmount the grealeft1 obltacles.Bonaparte {hewed very early the defire,lot rather the deed of liberty. L’he loveI of his country the ill and of Cornea, whichihe then corfi.ered as his native home,oirumphed already over the femiment ofijgratkuJe due to the bounty of the king.' t he idea or d<-pendance appear to himlidegardirg, he wa^ humbled by it , andlipftcn indignant to be expofed to the mali-itious witticifms of his comrade* on thenunion of Corfica to the monarchy of France,f* hope to be able ” replied he in theofone of an ofFeaded foirit. I hope to be.able one' dav. to reftore it to freedom ?’*IJUnconfcious then that he was to be calledlin a few years to fix the power of Franceditfelf, and decide the fate of the other greatdllafes’ of Europe.His firft fteps in learning were notjimarked by any extraordinary progrefs;and whether from careleflhefs or difltke,jihe gave but luyle application to the iiudy'of the Latin tongue This negligence ap¬pears fb rhuch the more afioaidiing, as hisf 8 ^deHre of inflru&ion and occupation veryfoon became in \ ini a re>I p flion ; butlatent penius air ady direfted hi choicethe ftudy of thof bran<hes of knov ledgp,whif'h were af erwards to become the in-fltuments of his £!ory. Mathematic^ for-,tification' the attack and defence of p aces,but above all the ftudy of hiftoty occupiedall his time To thefe ftudies he gavehimfelf up without relaxation; and ? haveno doubt but his enthufiafm originated inihis frvonrite reading of the Jives of greatand illuftrious men whom he had, from :the beginning, pronofed to himfelf as propermodels bin r'riH a/sc-'fKIo tr» indop h^r'prNo one was able to judge betthan myfelf of the uncommon avidity with*which he purfued his readings; and thegreat connexions which ,he had togethercn that head were dcubflek, what con¬tributed to fix my attention upon him info particular a mannero explain that!!(more clearly, it i> ntcdlary to,mentionan eflahlifhment which had taken placein the military School of Brienne. duringthe rtfidence of Bonaparte, which was thefoundation of a liberty en.irely under thecireXion of the young men, and -dt (linedto their pleafure and infiruXion.But to give us proper notions of ar¬rangement, our (uperiois* propofed to leavethe diftribution of the books and the admi-JUftration of the funds^ .dedicated to the tup-( 9 ))i|port of the lib-ary, to the abfolute manage*pnent of two ol the boarders, to be ehofenfhy their comrades. I was one of th .feIwhom my fcht ol fellows had named to £hatMmplovment to which l gave np the leifureibours of three years perhaps the fnoft pleaf--lant in my lif;.. It was then that l had re¬peated opportunities to fee Bonapatte, whoaberhaps in preference to me ought to havepeert chofen the librarian ; but oar compa-iliions thought otherwife} and probably heffvould have difdained the appointment be-Sieving all the momen t loft to his own in•fruftijn which he mufl have facrificed to4he niinute detail of fuch an office. How-t||ver that might be his caJls became fourery frequent as to render me unrufonablywut of humour. It is in the nature of m n,tod in my own jnftificitiun, not leh in that:f children, to arrogate' to thtmfelves, byaiegrees all the privileges of authority.—t was. indeed, njy duty to have been corn-plaifant but t found it more convenient to:»e capiicious—Plagued by demands fo oftenpopeated, l fometimes pretended to m flakeji»is applicatioii for teaztng and intentionaliimportunities, and fomqtLmes, alfo l had.:eafon to ftpent my rudenefs. Bonaparte. .oung, was not more patient nor lefs pofi-ive taan now, and has made me frequently.«ef, that it was always unfafe to provoke•ipin* At that time l lhauld have d&sjj.aftiamed to own It, b'jt at prefont fuch suicent ffion is not fo p3irn\il.Rtfesved in his temper and wholly o :u pled bv his own purfui:s Bonapartecourted that kditude which feemed to con4j;ftitute his delight. He employed, durirg|;a long time iome of the hours allowed to!;recreation in cultivating as a little garden,,;that fpot which fell to his (hare, of a confi-ltderable ponion of gr9und which was riivid- ied among us. Alter having forced two cf ;his partners to give it up entirely to him,his firft care was to render the accels to it .difficult by means of .a ftrong paHfade; informing which, he fpent all the money 1which the Count de Martceuf had hnt to him for his little expences. the green tarbours, which he planted himftlf and tcultivated with tne utmoft pains, rendered ithis garden, at the end of two yeers, the :retreit of a perfect hermit. Woe to the icurious^ the malicious, or the payful, who rdared to trouble his repofe! Y *u might’jfee him burft furious from his retreat torepel them ; nor was he deterred by thenumber of his aflailants. It was in thisconcealed retirement where the foul of jBonaparte greed* of glory infenfibl / evo!-jved ihe feed of that noble . mbition feaffing jon theex iinpie of thofe great men who hi !he was preparing himfelf to furpafs*7 11 )A riode of life fo very fiiiguTar, courdnot foil to be marked, fncap-ble to efti-t in te his ur comm on merit or rut her to^penetrate his tree motives, brs fuperiors^i; ana his fchool fellows taxed him as iooliffistarid iniiculcu?. Every mean was tried,iin Voin, b) reitore him to himfelf, by mak-tiirg him charge his conduct. Infenfiblejlto affronts which he could not refent. hetirepelled the railleries of the mailers bytlfilence and difdam Humilation and evenilpumfbment, which were aifo employed,jifhad no better fuccefs.i believe I have forgotten to mention,([.that the meetings of the feting then vrereheftabUlheri on a military looting. Divided(into companies, they compefed a little bat-• t|taliion, the-Colonel and all-the officers of•which chofen, among ourfelves, were de-ncorated by the ornaments w4iicH diftinguilh.the Pren h uniform Bonaparte had therank of Captain • One would iuppofe thatjibe mull be fenfible to the lois of a diftinc-i;ion only granted to merit and every day.becoming more fla' teving from the eager-;ne s by which it ifras fought for bf thejoung men. A council of war eftabiiffiedwith all its forms, declared him unworthy-O comm -nd tiiofe comrades whole good-willme cifpifed. atter the iantence was read,.which degraded him to the bit pla<e ofthe battalion, he was Itrippea of die cfe (I* )tinguifhing marks of his rank*. Bonaparte aappeared infenfibie to the affront or dif- i-dained at leaff: to (hew that he was affe&ed tby it ? his fuperiots pfrhaps repented hav¬ing obliged h'm to undergo this difgrace ; sbut his comra es. from that time, rtffored j!to him their friendthip becauie generous timinded youth ceafes to pejfecute thole who vare unfortunate.This condi ct.had the m-ft happy (fF £t.1 nBonap rte t.ft skd his itnfe of the getiero- vfity of his young friends. He continued ihis ftudies, b t b» c «me m>re fociable with ahis fchoohieiiows ; he. joined fome times in JtOUr games, and aquiied by that a right.topropofe, in his turn, fome new divetfion.It would have been little amiifemcnt to him iif he could not have united minty wdh ,tpkafure; and, in faft, the plays which he tpropofed, markeds ftrongly his character. ,The 01 j H *p c gsme ot Greece, and thofe cof the Circus ot Rome, were the mo'.lles he' ,propofed for our imitation. Novelty pleafes ■children, paiticubry thofe of Franqe.—Bonaparte becime our leader, and the lofsof his title of Cap aiu was foon replaced bythat of Dirc&or of our diverfions. whichwras uuanimoufly granted to him. If men,in their plealure.% ahnoft always, exceed :the limits of moderation, we may eafilyluppofe that vhtue to be ftill more feldomtbe lot yf joung people, Our game* be-ame battles ; by turns Romans and Cat*haginians Greeks and Per funs, we be-eve i ourfelve? called upon ro unit t theEsthufi ftic fury of thole ancient warfi^rs,tones were weapons and often productivef wounds fo that our fuperior* found then-:lv s obliged to reprefs our courage Theantes were forbidden, ' and our Generalmerely reprimanded. Bonap>rte wit ti¬re w himielt into his favou ice garden re¬amed his former occupations, and appear-jd no more among us till the i o » cover-!»g the ground, and concealing the (tones,urniihed him with a pretext to open a newc ampaign.1 he hoftili ies became, neceffirily, ofiiott&r fo t, ?nd ti e modern art of warcceedtd to that of *be anei-nt. B mgrio’ lly occu.iied by the ftudy of fortifica->H, he wi<hed to put his theory in prac-:t ; and fonn entrenchment , fo-ts, bafli-is and redouots were eretteu tf mow, infe. great court of the fchool. Ve all 1?.-|)ureo at theie works with an a£Hv ty andti fure which c-«n 6e eahly imagined thejung Bona parte directing our operations.• he whole was executed wth io much artd exadtnefs as to excite the curirfry ofe people ot the town and even ot Itrahg-, s who came in crowcs, during the winter,admire our fortifications ot fnow ! . As, pn as thele works were fimihed, we had( i4 )no peace till order of attack and derfence «»as fettled Bonaparte again tooWtthe care of dirt&ing our motions; anil:by turns, at the head of afl’ailants and opiponents he learned betimes f om theft:•ufcfu! games, to unite ad ids with coutagej*bnoWfbans were the weapons ol both partities, and the wounds they gave, not beirfttimortal cur mailers faw our diver fn ns wit hitout alarm ; they even had the good fenfwto tncourage them by applauding thofi)!!v ho dillinguilhed them elvts whether by:;their courage or by fome new ftratagtmjiBon-iparfe already ienile in expedients;:found means to keep up the dtverfion bwdevifing, every day fome new manauvres \but the fun of the month of March oiHurDedfeour imufements, and put an end to therrjttill the winter.Such was the f hcol, and fuch the firUtelfay of the young hero, who, lince, at the:head of a new raife'd army, without difcipiiline and almoft without confidence hast;known how to conquer the braveft trcopspof l.urope. and difccrxcert the meafuresthe moll expeflenced Centrals. E.'.ger togain tile approbation of his young rrvalshit vs as in the it juvenie pUys thet he firf|learned the wav to conquer; from then™Ipr.ung that warlike en;hufi«fni, winch afijforded the firlt oifplay of his great genius 1Kindled into admiration of the heroes oillantiqul.'y their great adions and virtuesbecame his modies and the glory of fur-Ipafiing them the ohjcd of his life.Nctwithftanding the conftant extrcife and,; amulements of which l have fpoken, and inj .which Bonapar^ took fo adive a part lamiifully pjrfuaded that his cunftitution fuffered•! much from long inadvon during hist years at fchooi \ too dole appdcaiionmay perh .ps retard more than a long con-i linutd repofe, for tho’ of a form ca'cu-ii ated to refill Ltigue and of much naturali Irength, he had always >he appearance ofa wevk ar.d delic te h aith. Altho* of aimiddle ftature. he is remarkable for the-[jreath of his fhoulders his eyes of a deepvi |)lue, are frhall but animated; his hairprown, his forehead large and prominent;fiis chin lharp his face long, and him com¬plexion olive; the general exprcflion of•pis countenance does not Hr ike at lirlt fight,put in obferving him with attention you.. tadily dilfinguilh the traces of deep think-vl ig, and the vivacity of his looks indicate; nergy and ad vity-:j His withdrawing from the fociety of hiscomrades, had- given a ruuentls, perh psferocity to his manner ; and fabjtd toviolent pallion, his anger againlt his youngtoirpamons fometimes ^.mounted even to|»ry *• the inllance l am going to report isjpoft characieriitic.T )Every year, on rhe 25th of the jday of t Lo' is, ths pupils of the ivlil’tary .School in honour of the King, wtrs per¬mitted, a'm'it without reltraint, to give j)thenfeives up to plevfure, and the moft'j,.noily democl: rations of joy. Every fpecies j,ot punilhment was fufpended diring that .happy dayj and it is eaty to fore-lee, that it Jcoutd feldom pMs without being attended 1by fome acddent. but, without blaming ’1or excusing that too great indulgence ofour matters, 1 will only recount that of .which was an f ye-w’knefs.When vtr a pupii had reached the age „of-fourteen, a cultom which we kept up,;with great care gave him the privilege toi;purch..fe a certain quantity of gun powder ,Iv.r ->t l ouis* o?.y : and during the fortnight ,which preceded the fohmnity the young ;ptop'e of that age affociated together to tprepite fire work?,. I he indulgency w ent i-even fo far as to intrutt them with feme .fmall pitces of anil try fon e mulket .andpthols, which were fired to anounce t te .jcay.‘ What joy ! what momtntl perhaps tthe tnoft happy of their lives.So complete and fo« animated W'as the|;general p'e-'fure among ft the IchoErs as tto render mere remarkable the indifference,' creal or aft'ffted wliich 6onap-:r e tefl/.fted ion that occafion being the lalt year 11785V:which he patted at the fchool.cf diierme#? i; IJR^red the whole ^ay in h>s garden he notpnly did not t> ,r icip ite in the public re-oicing, but afF ded to contmue hi< ufuultudy and occupation wit h on being difr:uroed by the noife Bis cottrades weretoo much engaged in their o wn amufemerit,:o think; of troubling his, and would onlylave [duelled at him, if his ftrange behavkDur in .an uncommon circumftdnce had notirawn upon him the general a t ntion.' Towards nine o’clock of the evening,b^ut twenty of the you tg people uere af-pmbled in thar garden,which joined to his,1* here the proprietor had promifed a (how|o his friends. It was a r- ramid, com-1b ned of different kinds of fire-works, to beflayed off;, unfortunately he had forgottenb remove a littie box, containing fcverallounds of powder ; and,the fpe&atord littlemagined how dear they -were about to piyar their innocent curlolity We werereffing round the little building to whiche had fet fire ; and, while we were adnair-iig the effect feme unlucky fparks enternaljie fatal magazine : the t xpiofion was dread-u!l fume legs and arms broken two or three• miferabl^y burned, and fome paces ofgall thrown do a n, w ere the difagreeabieupnfequetK es of it ; but while to have them-••/lives all fhofe whom the fpligters had noti;®ac ed broke -down the pa Hi fades of theJsighbiouring gardens, Bonaparte was feen,f 18 )'armed with a rix-ax puddn^ back infothe fire all thofe who hid bur ft through hisfence: he became enraged in feeing the tdefiru&iori of his arbour and the tfto vs ,which he beftowed on the unhappy fugi-l ftives, iacreafed tile number of the wounded, jIt is needlels to fay how our comrades wererevenged ; Bnaparte him ft! t wihout doubt,-:would own now that he jnftly dcf rved our ;refentment; but at that tifne he thought of.nothing but his mined g rden he had no,concern in the impru lence of his cornpani-f[ton's. Exafperated. perhaps, by the noiiy^demoitllrations of a joy of which his heart1did not partake, it is alfo very reafonable’.to fuppofe that r-joicings in honour of aKing might hive exc:*od the i'i-humour ,,of a republican: and Bone pane hid long'',manifefted his femiments in that refpeift^jHowever that may be, time feems to have,.,much foftened that unfeeling rouglmefc, t r. he is not lefs celebra'ed by his modera ionthtowards his enemies than by his bn liant:exploitsBonaparte quitted the fchool of ^rienneat the end of the year t?8j. M. le C'-eva^,!Her R-mault, then !nfp! dtor Qeneral, knemhow to eftitnafe the merit of th it young m n,.to which he did juftice, notwiihft nding thdibitter complaints of his mafters, whom hisiihard ftubborn charader had generally rea-ldered uciriendly to him.f 19 )There was m that year, a promor;6n ofijevera! of the King’s pupils whom theiri irogreffes in tht ftudies, had r nderedWorthy to be fent to the M litary School;f Paris: Bonaparte was of the number,is talents erave him va'ue in the eyes of;; gallant tffio.r who himfclf owed his pre-i ;rm :nt and Pis fortune to his own imrit,[ nd to the univerfal teftimony of an irre-‘Toachable conduct On his arrival at Pins5|e fettifii-i his inclination to leivrin the ar-Illery, becaufe this and the engineers werefie only corps in France whvre intered and:1 Ichcs could not lo eafi y ufurp the placeto merit, He applied himielf with an1 dwearied zeal to the mathematics which'ien became his principal (tuny and wasI ion in a fituation to go thro* the neceffaryr.stamination'f^ He acquitted h mftlf withefedit an 1 was then, promoted to the rank’' an c ffi er in the regiment de la Fere,Kiortlv bet -re the revo!ut;ondi From the princ'ples which he had avow-l fo eaily, ii is natural to believe thatibnaparte, at that memorable ep^ch didi hefitate to declare in favour of in le-fjnd.nce. Always unalterable in his 1 il-ice of royalty, and devo ed to I ve of>ory, his -m itipn did not neglefl; lo fav-irable an opportunity to fign hze himielf•! was preftxited bv the revolution. It isd-lhv.ult fuuaiions that a Itrong mind caai ao \beH- force itVf into no‘ice j in thattimid indecifton betravs its'own we?k^tn -fs, it never hf fifates to feparate from tbej>crowd; to tTi*jmph or fo di® with glorvjrare the on!v aUetflatives and from thefd;r/'thine can turn U afide N 'twithftandir Ath? dan.eer o*7 an earlv declaration in t'<Lbeginning of the didurhances, Bononartatdifda'ned to feign. He declared h'mftWii!in fav "r of freedom. ^Imoft a'l his btolther-officers blamed hini for fo prompt idecidpn and the fpirit of parr occafioneA,foon af‘er the moft violent altercations L>e+'tween Iv'm and them f> that if w',s forrui«n^r tre ’of; of their ffiendfliip did not c i|him his lifeOne day. wa’king by a river-fide wititfame young officer^ wi h whom he gen elrally rdf act a ted, the dii’pute ran high, andl:in a moment of enthufiafm of whi .h theyAhave been numerous inftarces in a’l hiwars of opinion tne yotfng people fnmgea[iu’zed Bonaparte and were on the p unt o|throwing him htadionu into the fire injwhen a m/'mentary. refle ction made <h i4pe'e ive the fhainefui ftitqualitv pf fh4number Bonapirte could n t be force#:to retraft his mooe of thinking the darga,wKioh he h -.d run ahere ; not hi plan ; b\|he broke oft all connection with his coutipamons till the revolutionary fpirit havitMm^de mere progrefs, induced fome of- tho^i( 21 )flio had fondemned him, to adopt, fhortlyIr ihe fame opinion. The others liften-to nothing bnt their attachment to theg, and dvfpairing to be able to aid h'’sfe at the head of troops who had the[l decidedly revolted againft him, tookdefperate refolution to facrifice theirk and fortune to the fentiments of hon-and probity, by which they were ani-ted Iheir departure flill renderedre exafperated thofe of their comradeso were attached to the oppofite oarty.^om that time they themfelves elevatede llandard of revolt, excited the foldiersfedition and gave publicly an example' the molt violent exceffes—tJut i multtop the curtain on fuch affl dting fcenes.i Jt is true, Birras, a'po • tr’ul friend, fe-hnded his ptrfonal merit and facilitateds entry into that career in which he hasI nailed tl e mt ft celebrated heroes.■ In 1790 Boaap.rte accomp mied to Cor-! a G< i-eral Paoli, who had made fome ItayParis. During the three y~ar$ that hemained with his family, he employed thethole of ids time inimproving liimfelf ftill'lo e in the the ry of military foience: butrdifturoantes w hich arole in that ifl,t>d1793 alter theac.uUtion brought agsinllrh bv the Conv- noon determined himreturn to ^rutce. He perfu del his>fttents to accompany hinij and the family( 22 )fettled near Toulon. The fiege of thattown, then occupied by the Englidi, having Itaken place foon after, Bonaparte was proMmoted, by Barras and the other Commifijifipners to the rank o' General of the artilJiery : ft was there he gave the firft proofsifof his military genius. Inftru&ed to diteffcl:the attack of the redoubts and out-worksi(which‘formed the defence of the place, hislbold and enterprifing genius devifed a planifwhich one would have thought imprafti'caAble, if the courage, of which he fet the exlample, *and knew fo well to communicat®;to his army, had not taught us that he wa#no t lefs capable to execute than to projeft mThe reign of Robefpierre. which immc*diateiy followed the retaking of loulonfwas unfavourable to noble adions and amtignominious death becoming the lot of whofloever excited the j^aloufy of that monfterircondemned true merit to filence and retireJment. I imagined Bonaparte to.have beeiiamong the number of the victims, but thdevent of the 13th Vendemaire undeceiveJme, Barras who direded on that occahoni:'.the meafures of the Government againflrthe revolted fedions, intrufted to him that:Command of the conventional army afteUfcthe refignation of General Gentili whole);deafnels was an obftacle to the difchargej“of the duty of his poff. The molt complttei:iuccefs jufhfied Bill more the partiality o|j( 23 ^rras for the younV Bonaparte: Parisii;the poi’it of being reduced to allies, fawainterior calm reftored. the Convention1$ indebted for iti triumph to Bonaparte ;4. France appenfed a^s much by his firm¬ly as by his ourage, owed to him the pre-iraiion of a number of its citizens whomt^nfeli f' fury had excited to ceflroy eachlijer. trom that neri »d to the momentlen the French Government formed the•ij £1 of cariying the waV'into Italy, theif he life of Bonaparte offers nothing veryirefting, but the unfavourable aufpicesaier which he was intrufted with the con-|l of that dangerous expedition contri-«ed not a little-to h tighten his reputation.I forocious Bobefp.erre had facnficed towurythe beft Generals ot Fr mce : Cuf-, . and Houch'fd. both we.il known by.ir gr.-at fuccefles had perifhtd o i a fcaf-Damourier h id betraved his truft,ru, the conquerdr of Holland,•tcallvd; v hen Bonap rte (tillersSye of engaging the ‘roopsl the mod experienced G nrals of Ka¬ils and in a couffitry where nature preientsilievery fide obttacles which Hannibal a-je had been, able to*overcome the Frenchffps could have little confi.ktic: in tdeIdu^ ot a General only 26 y^r* old ;9was chofen to retrieve fo( 24 )unprovided, ss they were, of magazines!inexperienced till now in the art of wufjand in want of clothes, the4oldiers did nonfeem encouraged by the appearance of theiinew chief. His exterior, not very prepoflf-fling gave occaflon to rmny of her jokes!Bonaparte, tar from being alarmed by theftobftacles. did not feem at all affe&ed bjthem. Perfuaded that the attachment cPlditrs cannot be forced, he foyght the on^true means of rendering himfelf worthy o>their confidence. The drefling wants oihis troops bee >me the firft objed of his attention ; he employed himfelf uneafmgltto lupply them and, in a little time, h|unremitting adVity had provided for ever*!thing. The army being now in a conditiolto ad offenfively the campaign was hardlfopen when the firft eflays of that ili-organized army were marked by very importanijfuccefles. From this time l cannot folio*the hero, a pen bolder than mine is diftine<i;to record fads which poftuity will hardtfbe able to credit.Bonaparte is all adivity, and every!where the fame, w-hether you behold hinifighting, negociatir.g or punifhing ; it is always an affair of *a moment, of a word —Never any hefinrion, he cuts the gordiatiknot which he cannot untie.