A BRIEF|1?>‘ - | ,r • '' ' , , V*-' V_- : • • ^HISTORICALRELATIONj O F T H E! L I F EO FMr. JOHN LIVINGSTONMI N IS T E R of the G O S P E L t|W’:: 'Li- " ■ ■ ’ ‘f'irft at Kill inchi e in Ireland, next at Stranravrer, andthereafter at Ancrum in Scotland, and Lit v. Rotterdamin Holla/id.Containing feveral Obfervations of the Divine goodnefsmanifelied to him in the feveral Occurrences thereof,i rVritten by bimfelf, during his Eanijlmient for the Caufe| of CHRIST,Imitanda illorum vita, qui Chrifli vHqyn imitaii funt.Carefully corrected.GLASGOW,printed by IVtlliam Duncan, fen. for Anirc-v.' St even forti Writer in Edinburgh. M, DCC.LIV, '| V ^ /j( 3 )I r S > fk: KXKKKKKKX.KKKXKKKK'XKK.• XKKKKKKKKKKKKK-KKKK'&KTHELife of Mr. JohnLiyingston.MY Father was Mr. William Livingfion, firfi: mi-nifler at Monybroch *, where he entred in theYear 1600, and thereafter was tranfported a<*I bout the Year 1614, to be minifter at Lanerk, where heidled in the Year 1641, being 6$ Years old. His Fatherwas Mr. Alexander Livingjlon, alfo at Monybroch, who1 was a near relation to the Houfe of Calender. His Fatherwas killed at Pinliefield, Anno 1547, being a foldier ofmy Lord Livingfloifs Regiment, who thereafter was dig-toihed to be Earl of Linlilhgc’w. My Father was ftraightrand zealous in the work of Reformation, and for his non*ijfubmilTion to the Canons and Ceremonies, was depofed andideprived of his minidry both at Monybroch, and alfo at\Lanerk.My mother was Agnes Livingjlon, daughter of Alex¬ander Livingflon Portioner of C of the houfe of Du-mipace, fhe was a rare Pattern of Godliuefs and virtue.ijShe died in the year 1617, being about 32 years of age.She left 3 fons and 4 daughters. I W'as bom in Monybroch,im Stir ling-tome, the 21 of June 1603.: PERIOD Id. .The firfl period of my life, I reckon from my birth tothe day I firlf preached in publick, which was in January12d 1625. Having at home learned to read and write; Iwas fent in the year 1613 to Stirling to a Latin fchool,with Mr. William Wallace a good man and a learned hu-; manity-fchoolmafler; where I daid till fummer 1617, atl.vihch time I was fent for, to beprefent with my motherA 2 dying.The fame as Kilfyth.(.4 0tlyi«^?v Qfloher 1617. I was fent to the College ofO-SVJ. Avhcre I flayed four years; I paffed Mr. of Arts yi/ly1621. After that I llayed in my father’s in Lanerk till Ibegan to preach. During this time I obferved the Lord s*great goodnefs, that I w£J bore offiich parents, who taughtme fomewhat of God io loon as I was capable to undcrflandanything; I had great fears about my falvattoh when I wasbut very young; I had the advantage of the acquaint,tnce“aiid example of many gracious Chrillians. who ufed to refortfd my father's houte,' cfpecially at communion-occaTions tfuch as Mr. Rifycrt Bruce, and feveraj other‘godly mrnii -fters, thcirafe'Coantefs of Wigidun, lady LWias Grakb/r;who alfo at my baptifin defired my name, becaufc her fathe r, 5her husband and rldell Ion were all of that name; the lady leC’llroft, the lady B'afttlotf, and funrlry others, ft is re* •markable, that Mr. ‘IVilliant IValhice came but a fhorfwhile to Stirling before I was font thither to -fefiool, and the •/year after I left the fchocl, he alfo left that charge: Like-, ■Svilc wox.hy.Mr. Robert Boyd of Throchridge, was but plately come front Somcr m France, do’ be • Principal in the (.College of when I went thither, and went fromthe College the year after I left it. The while I was inStirling, Mr. Patrick Simp [on was miniffer there, a manlearned, godly and very faithful in the catlfe of God ; and \!n Glajgo'w, I heard Mr. John Bell a grave feriohs man, jand Mr. Robert Scot, who aifo was once depofed for op- rpoling the corruptions of the time. The firft year I went i?to Stirling fchool I profited not much, and was oftenbeaten by the Schoolmader, and it happened that one day,when he had beaten me on' the check with a ftick, lo that ,it fwelled, that fame day my Father came occafiorrally tetown, and feeing my face fwoln chode with the mailerthat he had a chief hand to bring him to that place, anc 1fhould he ufe me fp ? the mailer promiled to forbear beating ,of me, and I profited a great deal more in my learning aftejthat; and 'whtn about September 1616. I with the reft o 5j.my equals, had gone through all the Latin and Greek tha j,fwas taught in the fchool, and fo were ready to go to tb acollege, and my father came to bring me home lor tha ;( r )\nd; the fchoolmaftcr prevailed with tny father, I being3 young, and the mader^having hopes of my proficiency,hat I ihduldftay yet one other year, and thus another boyi nd I ftayed another year. We, for the mod part read byurfelves in a little chamber above the fchooi, the mader: hrnifhing us books, where we w'ent through mod part ofihe choice Latin Writers, both Poets and others, and thatear W'as to me the large mod profitable year I had at thebhools, only in my third year at the college of Glafgmv,read more than I think I did any year lince: : I wa* thenInder the overlight of precious Mr. Robert Blair> who forwo years was my Regent: and having gotten fome grcimd-ng in the logicks and metaphyficks, and the fubtilties ofhe fchool-men, a vain 'defire to be above my equals,• rompted me to more diligence. In many things whereuntony mind was very bent, the Lord often difappointed me,ind always to my greater advantage. After I had padediuy degrees in she college, I had a great mind to the dudyof;|he claiiicks, and therefore was delirous to fpend fomc time1 s a Regent in the college, and for that end, a place beinglacant in the college of Glafgo'w, I dudied hard and pre-jUred to difpute for the place, but when the time came Ii|eard that one without any difpute was placed. Becaufe intie winter of my lad year at the college, I had been longetained under phyficians or chirurgeons with a lidula in my:g, in which time Mr. Robert Boyd had taught the reftjnay tlafs fome Hebrew; being grieved at that lofs, I begana my father’s houfe by my private dudy to attain to fome.nowledge of the Hebrew, which thereafter by time I■■•i bmewhat encreafed.I do not remember the time or means particularly,thereby the Lord at fird wrought upon my heart; when t/as but very young I would fometimes pray with fomcceling, and read the word with delight; but thereafterid often intermit any fuch exercife; 1 would have fomehallenges and begin, and again intermit. I remember therd time that ever I communicated at the Lord’s table1 ^ ’n Stirling, when I was at fchooi, where fitting at theLble, and Mr. Patrick Siitipfoti exhorting before thed K diftri-^iUribution, there came fuch a trembling tipoitme that allt'riy body fhook, yet thereafter‘the fear and trembling de¬parted, and I got fome comfort and aflurance. I had nos >inclinatbn to the miniftry, till a year or more after I hadpaffed my degrees in the college, and that upon this occa-fion; I had a bent delire to give myfelf to the knowledge |and practice of medicine, I was very carnefi to go to Francefor that purpofe, and propounded it to my father, that I !might obtain his confent, but he refufed the fame,Alfo about the fame time, my father having beforepurehafed fbmfc land in the parifh of Monybroch, the rights :::whereof were taken in my name , and that land by ill tneighbours being m a manner laid walk, and Sir William 'Living/lon ai Kilfyth one of the lords of feflion, being very cdeiirous to buy that land, that he might build a burgh of cbarony upon it at Burnfide, my father propounded that Ifhould go and dwell on that land and many; but finding that!that courfe would divert me from all ftudy of learning, I re- 'fufed that offer, and rather agreed to the felling of it, ah ho’ ■I was not yet major to ratify the fale. Now being in thefe rftraits I refbived, that I would fpend a day my alone beforeCod, and knowing of a fecret cave on the fouth-fide of •Moufr*water, a httle above the honfe oi Jcrt'ifiuood, over ‘ ■againft Clcgorr.-^wcod, I went thither, and after many to’s *and fro’s, and much confufion, and fear about the Hate ofmy foul, I thought it was made out to me, that I behoved! 1to preach Chrift Jvfus, which if I did not, 1 fhould have ‘'i;no ailinance of fa 1 vat ion. Upon this I laid afide all thoughts <of ffwwe, and medicine, and land, and betook me to theftudy of divinity.. I was from my infancy bred with an averfton to cpifcopacyand cere monies. While I was in the college of Glafgsm.1in the year i6io, being as I think, the firft year that'kneeling at the communion was brought in there, I being "with two or three more of the young men at the college ‘,i1fet down among the people at the table, and Mr. JitmeJn >'Law the pretended bilhop of Glafgoiv coming to celebratethe communion, he urged all the people to fall down anckneel; fomc did fa, we fat it ill; hccarrtc to us commandingus( 1 )to kneel or to depart-: fomewhat I fpoke to Kim, buto not remember perfectly what I faid, it was to this pur-Itofe; That there •was no warrant for kneeling, and for\>ant of it, we ought not to be excommunicated from theible oT the Lord. He caufed feme of the people about3 to rife that we might have place to remove, which weid; The next day the Principal Mr, Robert Boyd calledle to him, and faid, within two or three weeks, he wouldelebrate the communion at Go-can, for he was miniiter at'■ovan, and defired me that whom I knew to be well af-;dted of the young men of the college, I would bring withre to him; altho’ he was a man of a four-like difpofitioaJnd carriage, I always found him fo kind and familiar asnade me wonder: fometimes he would call me with othernree or four, and lay down books before us, and have us[Hg tunes of mulick, wherein he took great delight. Thefll Chriftian acquaintance and fociety whereby I got any.jonefit, was with a religious gentleman IVilliam Cunningham!.tor of Bonytoun, who ufed to be oft at my father’s houfe';veral times he and John IVier of Stockbridgcs, - J/exanderenant, James kf'ier , George Matthew, and DavidAattbew, who were Packmen, would meet in my chamberi Lanerk, where we ufed to fpend fome time in conferencefj-rd prayer.P E R I 0 D lid.The fecond period of niy life, I reckon from the time Ireached in publick,till the time I v/as fettled in the miniftryKillinckic in Ireland, for having begun to preach inJanuary 1625, I continued in my father’s houfe in Lanerk,fod for the fpace of an year and an half or fomt more, Iudied there, and preached fometimes there, and fometimesneighbouring kirks,: during which time I wrote all my:rmons before I preaciied them word by word, till one daydng to preach after the communion of ffod^uan, andvmg in readinefs only a fermon which I had preached onoty before in another kirk, and perceiving feverals to beQiwdquan, who had been at the other kirk, I refolvedchufe a new text, and having but little time, wrote onlyme notes of the heads;! was to deliver, yet I found atthatC. 8 ) ..tjiat tirae, more afTiftance in the enlarging of thefe points^•and more motion in my own heart,, than ever I had foundbefore, and after that I never, wrote all at length, but onlynotes. ■ . \ w ■ v^.A-hout^^/Zi^ad, Iwas fentfor by my.lord Ktfigure tocome to G.atlovjny, in reference to a call, to the pfmtli ofAnvjoth, which at tliat time was not a pariih by it (elf, huea part of another, neither.had 4 church budded; .theyode red before Augufi next, to have it disjoined, a. church-built, auda ihpend fettled, and ddired.that I would (laythere in the mean time: I was not willing to flay attlntt(time, there being no appearance that I could preach in the-jmeantime: therefore they delired, if they got thefc thijigs|;performed before Augufi^ that upon a call ! would return;thereunto; I condefccndcd, but fome difficulties,coming.in the way, they got not thefe things fo fooa done, and,therefore in harvell hrll I hearkned to a call to 'Terphiehen*.hut thereafter the Lord provided a great deal better for'them, for they got that worthy fervant of Jefus Chrilt ;Mr..SatHuA Rutherford, whofe praife is in all the reformed1churches;, and I obfervedafterwards, thatfeveralpariffics: trwhereunto I had a motion of a call were difappointed, .eitherby obflructkm.from the biihqps,,or thereafter by the generalAfembly's refilling to tranfport: yet thefe parithes were far ,better provided; For Lit/b. gdt Mrl'JJavA Forrejl, Kir-•kaldy got Mr. Robert Douglafs^ Giafgo--w got precious Mr>.James Durham ; Antrum in Ireland got Mr. ArchibaldFergit[on\ Newton there got Mr. John Greg, and .KiKline hie there got Mr. Michael Bruce l The :ffiort .time}I was in Galloway. I gat acquaintance .with: my lord Ken*lmure And his religious lady, andieveral worthy experienced!chriftians, as Alexander Gordon ol Earlftoutt, AlfxavdeH.Gordon of Knockgray, Alexander Gordon of KvcckbrcLfijJohn his brother, and Alexander Gordon of Garlw.John Gordon of Barfkeoch, the laird oi Gareltoun, 'Tuller\tpun, John DVadarn and Chrijlian Mf adavt of.HJttes'hraiMarion M‘naught in Kirkudbright, and fcveral 'Otherselj ifor I preached at a communion in Borgue, where wero.jnany good people that came out of Kirkudbrift, and wai( .9 ) ' .it fomc private meetings with fomc of the forementioncdin Gar lurk, and in the Airds, where Eurlftoun thendwelt.In harveft 1626 I was defired by my lord Tbrfhickcn,«to come to his houfe in Calder, and being ddired by the, aged minifter of Torphichen, to preach there; after two: or three weeks, the presbytery of Linlithgow kept a vi-t litation in that church, where I got a joint call by theparilh and presbytery, and the old rftinifter, and by my1 lord Torphichen patron of the parilh and mafler of thealand, to be minllter there. The old miniller died withini a month or two; I preached there a whole year, andbund feveral times the Lord’s prefence with me in preach¬ing, otherways than I had found before. Means were:ed by the parilh and the lord Torphichen, that I mightbe ordainedj The presbytery, alth'o’ fome of them werebut corrupt men, flic wed themfelves willing thereunto :njfcut Mr. John Spoifwoodpretended bilhop of St. Andrewsiltopped all becaul'e of my non-conformity; and when theiBcati ol Linlithgow, lord Torphichen and fome others, dealtihvith him on my behalf, (for even at that time fome few byiltmoyen, were luffered to enter into the miniltry withouticonformity) he pretended that notwithflanding of my non-onfonnity, he Ihould not hinder my entrance in fomether place 5 but that W'as promifed to One Mf. GeorgeLanna, who thereafter was intruded upon that poof people;nd the report went, that either Mf. George, or his brotherdr. James, had given the bilhop, Or fome about him, 500erks Scots, to get that place. This oppofition and fearf difappointment, made the people more defirous to hearhe word ; arid this deiire to hear, I thought made, thathe Lord furnilhed the more ro be pfcached to them, ef-ecially toward the end: for, dbbxxt'Ofibber 1627, the■esbytery of Linlithgow wrote to nib, to del’ll: fromreaching any more at Torphichen, and I found the twoi>r three laft Sabbaths I preached there, the Iwcetcft Sab-»aths, altho’ forrowful, that I had feen in that place.When I was thus forced to leave Tor'phichen, and was) -efoiycd to return to my father's houfe in Lanbrk, £pd had.bonlv( 10 )only gone to take my leave oimy uncle William Livingflon -in Falkirk, being anxious about the Cjife of Xorphichen,and my own want of imployment, when I had fent awaybefore me to Lanerk the boy that -waited on me and keptmy horfe, being minded within half an hofir to follow, Ig9t letters from the oouptcfs of IVigtoun front Cumbernauld,(that was lix miles di('tant)deliring that I would come thitherto be prefent with her mother the countefs of Linlithgow \who was a*dying, and had been all her djiyA a Papitt,. butiome while before had deferred that religion. When Icame thither, the earjyof ll'igtoun and.ihe propounded,1'hat (feeing their houfe was- fix miles from their pariihchurch, and feveraj of their tenants’ might cojne to hear ,fermon in their houfe; and that it was but 10 or 12 milesdiifant from ‘Torphicken, and fo fome of them alfo mightcome) I would flay\with them, and, at lead in thewinter-time, preach in the hall of Cumbi-rnanld to thefamily and fuchjas came, until other oecafion ofimploytnentod'ered:' whereunt'o- I condefcended. Thus, until Auguji163©, at which time I went to/refI-continued more ,than two. years and a half mod part in the houfe of theearl of Wigtown, andfometimes with myfathcr in Lanerk.^tod part of tjrefe fummers I was travelling from, place toplace, according as (got invitations to preach,, and efpcci-aljy at communions in Lanerk,Irvine, New-milnA Kin-,niety Culrafjy LarKrri and die Shoti, and fjyjjral-otheVplaces: I preached fometimes alfb at.fpr Mr. «FjAeri Sat. ffe died the 28 of January M2$. I waswuh him.feyeral times on his deathbed. -. .■One time in .1peffence rd-’/np.y, fpeaking of the bi drops apd cerenxrnies', ahe laid, 1 iicjr wTjC^ed’ and yorrugt.cOiirfes my foul ab- flhorrs, and my comfort is thauGod-hatb withheld me front; ■them ; if G.od lengthen my days, J ihall not be fo fparing |Jas I have been i to gaii>, eaic I have difhonputed -God |at^d a little before his death, having lain, iome-.y bile in akind of trance, he awaked, and taking oif his ,night-cap,threw it to the bed-foot; and cryed out, I haVe nowf’en the Lord-, and heard him fay, Make way for jmy faithful' fcrvant Mr. Robert Sat." And after a ihort•‘•bile he died. 1 be"""" 1b) ...,The parifh of Shcts bordered on the parim of Torptichen,where they fometimcs reforted, and I was feveral timesij invited by Mr.' John Hance minirter of Shots to preacht there. In that place I ufed to find more liberty in preachingi than elfewhere; yea, the only day in all my life whereinf I found molt of the prefence of God in preaching, was ona Monday after the communion, preaching in the church¬yard of Shots, June'll. l6;o. The night before, I had1 been with fome chriftians, who fpent the night in prayerand conference. When I was alone in the fields about 8ii or 9 of the clock in the ihorning,' before we were to go tofermon, there came fuch a mifgivmg of fpirit upon me,eonfidering my unworthinefs and weaknefs, and the multi-1 tude and expectation of the people, that I was confulting withmyfelf to have llolen away fomewhere, and declined thatday’s preaching, but that I thought I durft not fo far diftruitGod, and fo went to fermon, and got good affiftance aboutan hour and a half upon the points which I had meditated onF.zek. xxxvi. 25, 26. “ Then will I fprinkle clean water! upon you, and ye fliall be clean: from all your filthinefs, andfrom all your idols will I cleanfe you. A new heart alfowill I give you, and a new fpirit will I put within you, andI will take away the llony heart out of your flefh, and I willgive you an heart of flefhAnd ii) the end, offering to clofewith fome words of exhortation, I was led on about anhour’s time, in a'drain of exhortation and warning, withfuch liberty and melting of heart/ as I never had the likein publick all my life-time. Some little of that (lamp remainedon the Thurfday after W'hen I preached in Kilmarnock; butthe very Monday following, preaching in Irvine, I wasfo deferred, that the points I had meditated and written,and had them fully in my memory, I was not for my heartable to get them pronounced. ■ So it plcafcd the Lord tocounterballance his dealings, and hide pride from man.This fb difeouraged me, that I was upon refolution forfome time, not to preach, at lead not in Irvine', but Mr.David Dickfon would not fuffer me to go from thence til!I preached the next Sabbath, To get (as he exprefled it)B 2 amends; C )emends of the devil: and fi. I ftajTed andfome tolerable freedom.By reafyn of this going from place to place, in fummertime, I got acquaintance with many of the godly and ableminiflers and profeffors of Scotland ; which prpvedto mea great advantage. The minifters chiefly were, MefTrs.Robert Bruce, whp had been minifter in Edinburgh, JohnSfrimgeour, who had been at Kinghorn, John Chalmersof Auchterdean, John Dykes of Anjlruther, IVtlliam Scotof Ccnvper, Alexander Henderfqn of Leuchars, John Rowof Carnock, John Ker of Preflonpans, James Creg ofNeoxi-milns, John Eergujbil of Ochiltree, Robert Scot ofGlafgcm, James Ingles of Dalzel, and fome others; andof profelTors, IV.illiam Rigg of Athernie, the lairds ofJJalhtll, Crofshill, Cunningham-hcad, Ceffnock , andRoot a Her., John Stuart proved of Air, William Rogermerchant there, John Mein merchant in Edinburgh, JohnHamilton apothecary there, James Murray writer there,the countefles of Eghntoun, and Loon don, the ladies Bqxd,Robert land, Culrofs her filler, Monouhanny, Halhill, Raith,Innertail, and many others ; the memory of whom is veryprecious and pefrelhing, I got not much read, nor anyfettled lludy followed all that time; only fome toncheshere and there of fundry both ancient and modern divines.Thofe whereby I pfofjted mod were the fermons of Mr.Robert Rolloqk, Mr. Robert Bruce, Mr, Jo. Weljh, andMr. David DicJtfon, whom I thought of all that I hadread, breathed mod of the Spirit of God, were bed atfeckd,and moll clear, plain and powerful; Several pf Mr. Ro¬bert Rollock’s fepmons are in print; I got in loap from JohnStuart in Air, a large book qffermqnsof Mr. IVelJh's, ipy. hich arc almod nothing but unfolding of the inward cxer-cife of a chridian. Mr. Robert Bruce I ftvoral times heard,mid in my opinion never man fpake with, greater powerfmee the Apodlesdays; there arc fhe or fix of his fermonsprinted; but the chief that I faw, were forae written' * ' If Ir.//,alpreachings of Ids which 1 got from my father: and SDavid D/ckfen 1 often heard, and borrowed from Crofshileverpreached with5 . . ( *3 )' - ^ .veral of his written fermons. Several motions wereilnade of calls to churches during this time; as to Liniiti-Igw, North-Lieth and Kirkaldy, in which places, upon invi-lation, I preached in reference to a call, but all wereiljbftrufted by the Bifhops.PERIOD III.The third period of my life, from the time I entred tore miniilry in Killinchie in Ireland, till I was lettled! linifter at Stranrawer vx Galloway 1633. In fummer730 being in Irvine, Mr. Robert Cunningham miniflerHoly wood in Ireland, and fome while before that Mr.rorge Dumbar minifler at Lem in Ireland propoundedme, feeing there was no appearance I could enter intoe miniftry in Scotland, whether or not I would be content1 go to Ireland? I anfwered them both, if I got a clear11 and a free entry, I would not refufe. About Augujl30, I got letters from the vifeount Clanniboy to comeIreland, in reference to a call to Killinchie, whither Int, and got an unanimous call from the parilh: and, be-fe it was needful that I fhould be ordained to the mi¬ry, and the bilhop of Down, in whofe diocefe Killinchiebeing a corrupt humorous man, and would requireengagement 5 therefore my lord Clanniboy fent fomeme, and wrote to Mr. Andrew Kjiox bifliop of Raphe,, when I came and had delivered the letters from myClanniboy and from the earl of Wigtoun and fome o-s, that 1 had for that purpofe brought out of Scotland,me he knew my errand, That I came to him be*e I had fcruplcs againil epifeopacy and ceremonies,rding as Mr. JoJias Weljh and fome others had donere ; and that he thought his old age was prolongedittle other purpofe but to do fuch offices: That if Iled to call him My Lord, he cared not much for it;e would defire of me, becaufe they got there butfermons, that I would preach at Ramallen the firi\llath, and that I would fend for Mr. Cunningham, andlior three other neighbouring miniflers to be prefect,■ after fennon fhould give me impofition of hands; but.: i ’ they performed the work, he behoved K» be preient;and( ) ....and altho’ he flurft not anfwer it to the State, he garetiiebook of ordination, and deiired that any thing I fcruplat, I ihould draw a line over it on the margin, and that MiCunningham Ihould not read it: but I found that it ha*|been fo marked by fome others before, that I needed ncmark any thing: fo the Lord was pleafed to carry th,bufinefs far beyond any thing that I had thought or almolever delired. That Winter following I was often in greheavinefs, for altho’ the people were very traftable, yithey were generally very ignorant, and I faw no appearaof doing any good among them, yet it pleafed the Loithat in a fhort time fome of them began to underfhfomewhat of their condition. The bilhop of Down hian ill eye upon me becaufe I had g6ne elfewhere to recerordination, and at a vilitation at Down, in the Sprifollowing, whither I went much againft my will, but ?Blair and Mr. Cunningham drew me, faying, my flay':away would procure more trouble. The bifltop alked frin prelence of all the minifters, what was‘my judgmdiof-the fer. ice-book? my anfwer fo difpleafed him, th.there was fomc appearance I might ihortly be cenfure'but my lord Clannihoy prevailed with him that I fhould fforborn, the parillt of Killine hie being looked upon bas a pendicle of another parilh, ids. Killileach, thewas never any official court kept in it all the while I wthere. Not only had we publick worlhip free of aiinventions of men, but we had alfo a tolerable difciplin jIttor alter I had been fome while among them, by t|advice of the heads of families, fome ableft for that chanwere chofen elders, to overfee the manners of the reand feme deacons to gather and diftribute the colle<fH<>»We met every week, and fuch as fell into notorious publifcandals, we delired to come before us, fuch as came wdealt with both in publick and private to confefs thfcahdal, in prefence of the congregation, at the Saturdafermon before the communion, which was celebrated t\sin the year: fuch as after dealing would not come fcef fbus, or coming would not be convinced to acknowlei Ruitheir fault before- the congregation, upon the Satun e-s.a preceec (’ercceeding the communion, their names, fcandals andiipenitency were read out before the congregation, andj ity debarred from the communion; which proved fuch ai rror that we found very few of that fort. We neededat to have the communion oftner, for there were nine- ten parifhes within the bounds of twenty miles or little■ ore, wherein there were godly and able minillers, thattppt a fociety together, and every one of thefe had thejmmunion twice a year,* at different times, and had twoj • three of the neighbouring miniiiers to help thereat,id molt part of the religious people ufed to refort toe.communions of the relt of the parilhes. Thefe mi-liers were Me Ilf 3. Rabcrt Blair ax Banger, Robert Cun-'[ iigkam at Holynxood, James Hamilton- at Battj'uxtter,obi Ridge at Antrum,- Henry Cohvort at old -Stow,eorge Dunbar at Lent, Joftas Weljh'ax 7ei)iplc-Patrick,I 'ndrenu Stuart, at Dunagor ; moll.of all thefe ufed or-Iirily to meet the foil Friday off every month at Antrum,:re was a great and good congregation, and that day..ffpent in faffing and prayer, and pubiick preachingsimonly two preached every forenoon, and two in themoon : we ufed to come together the Thurfday’s night>re, and flayed the Friday’s night; after, and eonfultedut fuch things as concerned the carrying on of thetk of God;; and, thefe meetings among!! ourfelves,e fometimes as profitable as either presbyteries orfyriods,out. of thefe parities now mentioned, and fome others, fuch as laid religion to heart, ufed-' to conveen toofe meetings, efpeciaffy out of the Six-Mile-Water,a iich was nearefl hand,..and where was the gfeatell'num-■ r.of religious people, and frequently the Sabbath afterI e Friday's meeting, the communion was celebrated ine or other of thefe parillies. Among all thefe miniffers,i ere was never any jaror jealoufy, yea itor amongii the;ofdTors, the -greateft part of them being Scots, and1 ne good number of very gracious Engiifb; all Whole* Mention was to prefer others to themfelves,- arid a 1tho’i i'gifts of the nrinillers were much different, yet it wasi T obfferved that the people fodowed any to the under-' valuing(16}valuing of others. Many of thefc religious profefTors,had been both ignorant and prophane, and for debt andwant, and worfe caufes, had left Scotland, yet the Lordwas pleafed by his word to work fuch a change. I donot think there were more lively and experienced chriitiansany where, than were thefe at that time in Ireland, andthat in good numbers, and feveral of them perfbns of goodoutward condition in the world j being but lately broughtin, the.lively edge was not yet gone off them, and theperpetual fear that the bithops would put away their mt»miters, made them with great hunger wait on the ordinan¬ces. I have known them come feveral miles from theirown houles, to communions to the Saturday’s lermon, andfpent the whole Saturday night in fevcral companies,lometimes a minifter being with them,fomctimes themfelvesalone, in conference and prayer, and waited on the publjckordinances the whole Sabbath, and fpent the Sabbath nightlikewife, and yet at the Monday’s fermon were not troubledwith lleepincfs, and fo have not flept till they went home.-Jiccauie of their holy and righteous carriage,- they weregenerally reverenced even by the gracelefs multitude amongwhom they lit ed. Some of them had attained loch dexre-rity of exprelling religious purpoles, by the refemblancdof Worldly things, that being at feails and meals in commoninns, where were fome ignorant prophane perfons, theywould among themfelves entertain a fpiritual difeourfe ibra long time, and the other profdTed that altho’ they fpokegood Englijhf. they could not underhand what they laid., jIn thofe days it was no great difficulty for a minrller topreach or pray in publick or private, fnch was the hungerof the hearers, and it was hard to judge, whether therewas more of the Lord’s prefence in the publick or privatemeetings.Augujl 24-. r6tr, the Lord was pleafed to deliver mefrom a great danger of lire. I lay in a high chamber ofJolm Stuart's houle in B the room was ilrawed with <a great deal of dry fea-bent ; I ufed never after I tvas ,alleep to awaken till the morning, yet that night about jone of the clock, all of the houle being fall afleep, I .wakenedwakened peaceably, and thought it had been day, and fora little fpace kept my eyes Ihut, and neither heard anynoife, nor Felt any fmell: but v/ithin a little while, openingtny eyes, I faw the flame of the bent, burning within twoells of the bed whereon I lay; for a great lire in the roombelow, making ready the meat for the reapers, had firedajoylt of the chimney, the end of the which came into theroom where I lay. The fire was betwixt me and the doorof the chamber; I rofe and took my breeches, my bible andwatch, giving my books and any things elfe I had forloft ; I got out of the door and called up thofe of thehoufe. It pleafed the Lord, that in a fhort fpace theygot the fire quenched; whereas in all appearance, had Iflept a quarter of an hour longer, the fire had feizedon the roof of the houfe covered only with ftraw, andfo not only houfe and goods but our lives had been con-fumed.I got not above a year’s quiet miniftry in Killinc!,ieyfor in ha,rveft 1631, Mr. Robert Ecklen bifhop ofhDotiw,fufpended Mr. Blair and me for nonconformity, but theoccalion was, that the fumiticr before we had been inScotland, and had preached in feveral parts,but efpecially ata communion in thp S-hots, which procured that the bifhopsin Scotland, efpecially Mr. James Law in Glafgowi, fentinformation againft us, by one Mr. Henry 'Ltjly then dean;afterward bilhop of Down; He and Sir Richard Beatenlord chief baron of Ireland, who ufed to come to the ailizeCircuits in the north, ftirred up the biihop againft us; butwe were fiiortly afterreftored: for Worthy Meftrs; Dunbar,WelJJ), Hamilton, and Culvert, went to Tradeth, to dodforJames UJher primate of Armaugh, not only a learned buta godly man, altho’ a biihop. Thither came alfo SirAndrew Stuart, after lord CaJUe-Stuart to deal forus. The primate very carefully dealt for us with thebifhop, fo that we were at that time reftored. But thebifhops of Scotland fent to the king information againftus by Mr. John Maxwel, called bifhop of Rofs, and think**ing that nonconformity would not be a crime fufficientlyhainous, they informed that we ftirred up the people, toC ex tafies, ^ 18 ) . •CXtsGes and enthufiaims. There were Indeed in Tome pa*villi es efpec'iaHy in Braidijland, where was* a godly agedjninitlcr Mr, Edward Bryce, feme people whp nfed in tifneof fcrmon to fall en a high breathing and panting, as thofe■do who have run long, but i-aoff of the mini lie rs, and efpe-cially thefe who were complained of, difeountenaheed thefeI’racfices, and fufpe<?ted them not to proceed from anyworking of the Spirit of God, and that upon this ground,•that thefe people were alike affected whatever purpofe waspreached, yea akho’ by ofie who had neither grfo'nor goodaffedtion to the work of Go<J, and accordingly few Of thefepeople ever eame forward to-any fdHd exerche. of chriffiani-ty, but continued ignorant and profafte, and left off rhatJeeming motion. It is like Mr. Henry had informedthis againfl ns ; however upon thefe informations the kingwrote to the lords julticco of- Jrela>rd, -7im\ by them to thebilhop of Donvn, that Me fir s'. Dunbar, Blair, Welih, andI ihould be fryed and cehfured. The -.jAd of Maj i 632,the bilhop depofed Mr. Biair M'A me, andkight days afterMr. Dunbar and Mr. Wdjh. He proceeded agalnff ns forconconformky, never mentioning what was in the king’iletter, knovring us to be free of that charge. Thereforewe refolved for our ov;n vindication, tind upon feme hope?that we might be rcflored again, to petition the king, thatWe might be tried in what was informed, and if guilty;we refufed no punifhmOftt; otherwife, that for fimple non¬conformity, we might in refpeef of our Scofijh breeding, beforborn in fuch a barren place as the north-part of Irelaiid.Upon this delign, Ihorrly after Mr. Blair went to London,and I to Scotland, with a purpole to follow him, only Iwas to procure letters from my lady marchionefs of Ha¬milton, and from the carls of Fglintoun, Linlithgow, andh’/igtoun, to feme of their friends at court, that we werefree of. what was informed, and to ddire toleration in ournonconformity. Mr. Blair wrote to me, that it Was need-tefs for me to come, and only required that I fhotild fendthole letters; which I did. He, after tedious onwaiting,at laif obtained a letter from the king to Strafford the lotddeputy, that the information Ihould be tried, and if wewereU’ete ftte, fome favour ihoulcl be fhewed us: and after didletter was thus drawn up by' the fecretary, the king wrote■ ott the margin with his own hand. That the matter fhouldbe narrowly tried, and feeing lie had got from fome perfonsof honour, attelfations of oar innocency, that the informersfiiould be punifhed if we were free. But when Mr. Blairtook this letter to the deputy to Dublin, it feems he hadgot new advertifement from Laud, who guided all church-matters at court; for he refufed, except we would con¬form, to take any trial or Ihew any favour: fo we continueddepofed till May 1634. At that time there being fomelittle difference between Strafford and fomc of die Englijhnobles in Ireland, and Strafford fpcaking occalionally withmy lord Cajlle-Stuart a good and wife man, lie tookoccalion to Ihew him, he might gain the hearts of all theScots in Ireland, if he would reftore the depofed minifters,for which he had alfo fome warrant from the king; hereuponhe wrote that we Ihould be reflorcd.During all that time from May 1632. to May 1634.I flayed at firfl fome while in Killinchie, and not only hadfeveral private meetings in feveral parts of the parifh, hutfundry Sabbaths conveened with them and prayed in thechurch, and after one had read a chapter I fpoke thereon ;but finding I could not be long fuffered to do fe>, I went taScotland, and as I had before, went from place to placeas I had invitation to preach, or to be at communions in thofeplaces where I had haunted before, and in fome others. Mychief relidence at that time was in the dean of Kilmarnock,with the worthy lady Boyd, and the while 1 was there, Ipreached ordinarily on the Sabbath once, being delired bythe mafter. I was alfo frequently in Lanerk with my father,and in Cumbernauld and other places, and fometimes inEdinburgh, where were frequent private meetings ofehri-ftians. I never had of ftipend in Killinchie, above 4 poundsfterling by year, and enjoyed that but a fliort fpace, yet Iblefs the Lord I never wanted money to fupply my neceflity,and to bear my charges in going to and again. My fatherwas not able to fupply me, having a great charge of otherpine children, whereof feven were daughters, TJicfe fromC 2 whopC( 20tvhom I got at fevcral times 1'upply of money were, the ladyBoyd, the coutiteft of Eglintoun, and Wigtoun, and thelady Inner tail.During thefe two years, I went twice or thrice over intoIreland, to viGt the pariih and friends there; the lad ofthefe times having cqme to Ireland in February 1654.Our friends in Ireland feeing no appearance of being de¬livered from the yoke of the prelates tyranny, had fomemind to tranfport themfelves to Neve-England, but refolvedlirfl to fend a minifter and a gentleman thither to the gover-nour and council, to try the condition of the country, and .to agree for a place to fettle in ; and accordingly theypitched upon William Wallace and me to go draight tQLondon, to go from tljence with the fird drip in the Spring,tmd return with the iird conveniency. Therein I perceived,hpwbeit I truh the Lord did accept and approve of ourIntention, yet Wonderfully he dopped our defign, for had iWilliam WMl ace come to me in Grooms-port in Ireland, atthe time prefixed, we might eafily have reached Londonbefore the fird fhip went, but he daying two days takingleave of Iris family, all which time the.wind was fair; fafoon as he came, the wind became contrary for a fourth-night, but after that we came to Scotland, and made all?hc hade we coujd to come to London, but the fltipswere gone, only three were to go within a fourthnightor fio. The fird we met with that had intered in thofcfhips, was Mr. Huinphray, who urged much that we fhouldgo with him in his fnip ; we told we would advife. Afterthat Mr. Belinham haying a greater drip, offered us betteraccommodation; yet becaufe Mr. Humpkray fpoke fird,we agreed to go with him. Had we gone with Mr. Belimham, we had gone forward ; but Mr. Humphray, to gaintime to do fome bufinefs, and to efehew fome tolling atlea, did not go aboard when the drips loofed, but tookus with him to Dorcheder, that when the drips Ihouldcome over-againd Wymouth we might go aboard ; on aSabbath forenoon, the three drips came to Wymcuth, theother two went forward with a fpread fail: Mr. HumphrayjCtelired his drip to call herfclf in the dayes, till we Ihouldbearf 2t >fcear Mr. White of Dorchejler preach in the afternoon.We went aboard, but by this means when a ftdrm andcontrary wind came on us on Wednefday night, the Othertwo flti-ps being-paft Lauds-end jftood to the lea, and wcwere forced to come to an anchor in Plymouth, and ftaideight or ten days there with contrary wind. During thistime William Wallace fell* lick, and was both advifed bydtxftors not to go to fea, and was fomewhat averfe to ithimfelf; and our friends in Ireland hid. condelcefided thatI fliould not go alone without him : wherefore we bothrefolved to return. When we were coming back I toldhim, I apprehended that we would get our liberty in lre~land', and accordingly when we came we found that wcfour who had been depofed, -were reltored by the deputy'sletter on May 1634.Shortly after on Mo?idfty June 23. 1634. The Lordwas pleafed to call home worthy Mr. Jofias IVelJh: I heardof his dangerous ficknefs on Sabbath afternoon before, andcame to him to Temp/e-Patrick, about eleven o’clock atnight, two hours after came Mr. Blair. He had manygracious and edifying difeourfes, as alfo fome wreftlings;one time when he, had faid, Oh for hypocrify ! Mr. Blairfaid to the great company of chrilHans prelcnt, See hemSatan knibbles at his heel, 'when he is going over the threjholdif heaven. A- little after, I being at prayer at the bedTlide before him, and the v/ord V1CT0RT coming outof my mouth, he took hold of my hand, and defired me toCeafe a little, and clapped both his hands, and cried out,VICTORY/ VICTORY / VICTORY/ for evermore !and then defired me to go on in prayer, and within a Ihorttime he expired.Mr. Blair, and Mr, Dunbar were again depofed withinhalf a year. I continued preaching in Killinchie for anyear and a half, till November 1635. During my abode inLondon, I got acquaintance with my lord Forbes, Sir Na¬thaniel Rich, Sir Richard Salt onfall. Sir William Cortfabli,Sir Philip Stapleton, Sir Mattke'iv Bonningtcn, Dcdior('huge, Doctor Sibs, Mr. Philip Nye, Mr. Thomas Good-yin, Mr. Harris, Mr. Refs, and fcveral others. I wasoftenC 22 }often with Doftor Alexander Letghton\> who was prifonefin the fleet. He diflwaded us from going to Nevi-England;and told us he was confident of the downfall of the bifhopsin Scotland-, which came to pafs within,three years. Someother things he then told me, which whether yet came topafs, I know not.In June 163 J. the Lord was graciouliy pleafed to bidsme with my wife, who how well accompliihed every way,and how faithful a yoke-fellow, I delire to leave to thememory of others. She was the eldeft daughter of Bar-<tbilome'vj Fteeming, merchant in Edinburgh, of mod wor¬thy memory, whofe brothers were John Flooming merchantin Edinburgh, and Mr. James Fleeming minilter at theBathings. Her father died at London, Anno 1624, and waslaid hard by Mr. Jo. IVelfb, and thefe two only of a longtime, had been fblemnly buried without the ferv'ce-book.Her mother Marion Flamilton, was a rare godly woman*who had alfo three religious fillers, Elizabeth married toMr. Richard Dickfon, minilter firll at the Weft-kirk ofEdinburgh, after at Kinniel, Barbara married to JohnMien merchant in Edinburgh, and Beatrice married to Mr.Blair ; Her brother James Fleeming a gracious and hopefulyouth, died in the year 1640. and a wliile after, her fillerMarion, after fhe had been fome while married to Mr.John MacClellan minifler of Kircudbright. Her motherwith her fecond husband John Stevehfon, and her family,came to Ireland in the end of the year 1.633. When Iwent a vilit to Ireland in February 1634. Mr. Blair,propounded to me that marriage. Immediately thereafterI was font to London, to have gone to Ntew-England, andreturned the June following. I had feen her before feveraltimes in Scotland, and heard the tellimony of many of hergracious difpofition, yet I was for nine months fecking, asI could, direction from God about that bufinefs; duringwhich time, I did not offer to fpeak to her, who I believehad not heard any thing of the matter, only for want olclearnefs in my mind, altho’ I was twice or thrice in thehoufe, and faw her frequently at communions and publicktneetings , and it is like I might have been longer in( *1 ) :fuch darknefs, except the Lord had prefented me an occafiosof our conferring together; for in November 1634, whenI was going to the Ffiday-meziing at Antrum, I met withher and fome others going thither, and propounded to themby the way, to confer on a text whereupon I was to preachthe day after dX' Antrum, wherein I found her conferencefo judicious and fpiritual. that I took that for fomc anfwerof‘my prayer to have my mind cleared, and blamed myfelftha'j I had not before taken occafion to confer with her.Four'or five days after I propounded the matter to her, anddeflred her to think upon it; and after a w^ek or two I wentto her mother’s houfe, and being alone with her defiring heranfwer, I went to prayer, and urged her to pray, which atla ft fhe did; and in that time, I got abundance of clcarnefs,that it was the Lord’s mind, that I fhould marry her, andthen propounded the matter more fully to her mother. Andaltho’ I was fully cleared, I may truly fay it was above amonth before I got marriage affeftion to her, altho’ flicwas for perfonal endowments beyond many of her equals,’grtd I gor it not fill I ob'tainecl it by prayer. But thereafterI had a great difficulty to moderate it. In Summer 163 J.her mother and fhe went to Scotland, and I followed,becaufe on both fides we were to have the confent of friendsin Scotland.. We were married by my father in the Wejl-kirk of Edinburgh,. June l^d, 1635. and altho’fome toldme fome days before, that SpotiJivood, who was thenCkancellour of Scotland, had given orders, to a Macer to1 apprehend me, our marriage vrtis very folemn and counte-Inanced with the prefence of a good number of religiousfriends, among whom was alfo the earl of Wigtoun and hisfon my lord Fleeming , in the houfe of her uncle JohnFlee'Ming, who did as great a’ duty* as if fhe had been hisown daughter, and providence fo Ordered, that thereafterI v/as prefent with him, and ‘his eight daughters on theirdeath-bed, and clearly dhcefned in fhem'all, full evidenceof the grace of God. I was alfo at .the death of her graciousuncle Mr. James, nlinifter at Ba'thans. From Edinburghr We went Over to Ireland, and I remained in her mother’s.Hi houfe, being at the Iron-furnace oiNiloorc, twelve miferfI ‘ - * fromfrom KiUinchic,, ’oecaufe there was fo ]i;tle appearance-. Imight continue in my miniftry there. For in Novemker1635,'I was again oepofed By Mr. Henry Lejly, -caljcdBi-Tiop of D'own, and fome while after excornmunicated byhis order, by one Mr. John Melvin minidc’]' at Dorirni andfor any thing I know, that fentence (hinds in fuch force'asit can have to this day: but I Blcfs the Lord, the curfecaufelefs hath not lighted on me;, and / have found 2ncethe Lord’s blefliag on foul and body, on family, narhe andgoods,' yea, \yhen after the.rebellion 1 was fent to Irelandin the year 1642, that Mr. Mclyin was the frii that wtlj-corned me afliorel and profefled his grief, that lie had hada hand inTuch a wicked aft. Nbtwithftanding thecenfurcof the hilliops, I continued preaching every Salbath in mymother’s houfe, whither feverals reforted, where Mr.Blair zWo preached, for he and his wife came alfo andremained in my mother’s houfe.This Winter perceiving no appearance of liberty,, citherto preachers of profdTors,from the bondage of the f reUtes:A minifter,df ’the north of Ireland, aijd; (b.me few out ofScotlandi rciplve'd to tranfport ourfelves to Nenu-England^otlrers of our friends being minded thereafter to follow ns.We had gpt letters from tn&govirhcur idAcounpil, full.qfkind irivitations.and large promifes of good accommodation:Wc, built a fltip near Belfajl, called the Eagle-Wing^ ,ofabout‘115 tuns,‘ and w-efe minded t6 hate fet opt in tjiqSpring 1636'. But through the difficulties that ufe to arifein fuch undertakings, in preparing the ffiip and our otheraccommodations, it was the 'September following, before wefet fail; we were all to go pahengers at that time ahoup140 perfons, of whom the chief were, Mp. Blair, JohnStuart provofl of rlir, Mr. Robert Hamilfon, afterwardminifer at KirhuEbright, Charles Camp be l, John Sut/iervelfHugh Brown, and feveral other families and hngle perfons;among whom was one Andrew proven of the pariffi ofLerhborn deaf and dumb, who had been a very viciousloofe man ; but when it pleaded the Lord to work a changeon fevcral of th.it parilh, a very fcnfiblc cliange was obfervediji him, not only in forfaking his former loofe courfes andcompany,Company, but joining himfelf to religious people, and all tfetfcxcrcifes ofGod’s worthipin public and private,andordmarilymorning and evening ufed.to go alone to prayer,, and wouldweep at i t rm o n s, an d b y Inch figns, thcfewho were acquaintedwith him underliood, he would exprefs many things of thoj work jof God upon his heart, fo that upon his earned delire,by the confent of all the miniflers who ufed to meet atAntrum, he was at lad admitted to the ordinance of thaLord’s fupper. I was abundantly clear in my mind, that theLord approved our intention and endeavour, and was asfeadyin making ail forts of preparation as any of the reft,yea, during all that time, Mr. Blair and we that were inmy mother’s houfe, fpent one day in the week, in fallingand ptayer, lor a blelHng to our undertaking; yet I oftentold my wife long before our outfetting, that it gave me inmind, we would never go to Arc*w-£/:gla?;d■ but I laid notfo great hold on that, as thereafter I found I had reafon totlo. Finding that it would be the end of Setiimer beforeWe could be ready to go, I went in March 1636 t&Scot-Ilavd, to take leave of my father and other dear friendsthere; and went to moll of all the places where I hadhaunted before, and found in the midlt of much mutualgrief, my heart often well refrelhed both in publick and! private: I came back in the end of April. In Augufi,all the reft of the honeft minifters were depofed, viz.Meftfs-. Cunningham, Ridge, Bryce, Hctmi'lton, and Culvert.June 30. my eideft fon John was born, and was the nextday after fermon baptized in our own houfe. We hadmuch toil in our preparations, and many hindrances in ourout-letting, and Loth lad and glad hearts in taking leave ofour friend's. At laft about the ninth of September 160,6.we fooled from Loch-Jhrgta, but were detained fometimewith contrary winds in Lochryan in Scotland, and groundedthe fhtp to fearch fonie leaks in the keels of the boat. Yetthereafter we fet to ft a, and for feme fpace had a fairwind, till we were between three and 400 leagues fromIreland, and fo-nearer the banks of N^jJcundhnd, thanany place of Europe: but if ever the Lord, fp'ake by hiswinds and ether-dtfpcnfations, it was made evicicht to us' ( 26 Jthnt it was not his will that we fliould go to New-England;For we met with,a mighty heavy rain out of the l\ort/)-'iveftfwhich did break our rudder, which we got mended,1 withmuch of our gallon-head and hint ■crop-trees, and toreour fore-fail i five or fix of our champ lets made up. agreat beam under the gutmer-raanidiw door broke; leascame in over, the mund-houfe, and. broke a plank qj twoon the deck, and wet .all them that were between the decks:we fpmng a leak, that gave us 700 ftrokes in two pumj,sin the half hour glafs; yet we lay at hull a long time, tobeat out that ftorm, till the mafict; and company came onemorning and told, it was impofiible to hold out any longer;and altho’ we beat out that iiorni, yet we might be fure inthat feafon of the year, we would foregather with one ortwo more of that fort, before we could reach .A dec-England,After prayer, when we were, confulting what to do, Ipropounded an overture, wherewith I was fbmewhat per¬plexed thereafter,, viz. “ That feeing we thought we hadthe Lord is warrant for our intended voyage; howbeit it beprd'mnption to propone align to him, yet we being in fucha (Irak, and having llood out fome days already; we mightyet for 24 hours Hand to it, and if in that time lie wereplcafcd to calm, the ftorm, and fend a fair wind, we mighttake it for his approbation of our advancing: otherwife, thatlie called us to .return.To this they all agreed, but thatday, and efpecially the night thereafter, we had the workflorin that we h.nl feep; fo that the next morning fb foonas we law day, we fumed and made gopd, vv^y with a maincourfe and a little of a fore-top-fail, and after feme tollingwe came ap jaft on the third of November, to an anchorin Locbfergus. During all this time, amidflfuch fears anddangers, the moff part of the paffengers were very chearfuland confident, yea,, feme in prayer had expreffed fuchhopes, that rather than the Lord would,fuffer fuch a companyin fuch fort to p eriih, if the (hip fiiould break, he ihould putwings to ourlhoulders and carry us fiife alhore. I never in mydays foupd the day fo fliort as all that time, altho’ I flept fomenights not above two hours, and fome.none at all, but floodmofl part in the gallery aflern the great cabin, where Mr,Bfaic; -i r .and I anclour families lay. For In the morning hy thattime that every one had been fome while alone; and then atprayer in their fevcral focicties, and then at publick prayerin the Ihip, it was time to go to dinner, and after that wewould vilit our friends in xhcgiumer-rocm, or thole betweenthe dteks, or any that were fick, and then publick prayerwould come, and after that flipper and family-excrciies:Mr. Blair was much of the time weakly, and lay in time■of Iform; I was fometimes fick, and tlien my brother Mr.MacClellan only performed duty in the iliip; feveral ofthofe between the decks being throng were fickly. An agedperfon and one child died, and were buried in the lea.One woman, the wife of Michael Colvert of Killinchiepariih, brought forth a child in the Ihip , I baptizedhim on Sabbath following, arid called him SEABORN.My wife went aboard with herfon fucking her bread, beingabout fourteen weeks old, yet Ihe had milk abundance forhim, and to help others. Mr. Blair was much affectedwith our returning, and fell in a fwoon that day we turnedback, and altho’ we could not imagine what to make of thatdifpenfation, yet we were confident, the Lord would letus fee fomewhat that would abundantly fat^fy us. Ouroutward means were much impaired by this difappointment,for we had putifaoft of our flocks in provifion, and fomewhatof merchandize, which we behoved to fell at low rates atour return, and had provided ourfelves with fome fervants,for lilhing and building of houfes, whom we behoved toturnoff. That wliich grieved us moll was, that we werelike to be a mocking to the wicked; but we found thecontrary, that the prelates and their followers, were muchdifmaid and feared at our return; but neither they norwe knew, that within a year, the Lord would root outthe prelates out of Scot Lind, and after that out of Englandand Ireland. Mr. Blair went and dwelt at the Stone in'Belfajl; others elfewhcre, I came back and remained atmy mother’s houfe, and preached teach Sabbath that IVint'er,as I had done before.In February 1637. One Frankhill of CaJUeraith, whoyet ufed to come fomc Sabbaths, to hear fermons at my£> 2 mother’^/ 28 )mother’s houfc, being in Dublin, informed the State againftMr. Blair and me. Order is given ro apprehend us; On<;night one Andrew Yaung, a fervant of Mr. Blair’s, whodwelt hard by our houfe, overheard a Purfevant calling t<?a Stabler, to prepare againft to-morrow morning, becaulethey haxl orders to go to the North, and bring up two Scot-tijh depofed jumifters. This Andrew immediately goes to aliable, prepares a horfe, and rode all that night, and in twodays after brings us word, fo that Mr. Blair and I wentout of rhe way, and came over to Scotland*. YV hen wecame to Irvine to Mr. Dickfon's, he told us. That fomegood gentlemen ih that country had been with him, havingheard that we were come to Scotland, and delired him notto employ us to preach, for fear that at fuch a time, theBifhops being then upon the urging of the fervice-book, \might take occafion thereby to put him out of his miniflry:but faid he, I dare not follow their opinion fo far to dif- 'countenance you in your fufferings, as not to employ youas in former times, but would think rather, fo doing wouldprovoke the Lord, that I might be on another accountdepofed, and not have fo good a confcience. We werevery unwilling either to occafion his trouble, or difiatisfyany of the gentlemen of the country; but he urged withfuch grounds, as we could not get refufed. After that Iwent by Dean, and Loon don, and Lanerk, to Edinburgh,and remained there fome fpace; being at fome privatemeeting every day. And when I returned to the communionof Irvine, which was the 26th of March, I found that mywife having come only a vifit from her mother’s houfe toNeovtoun, to fee the lady Airds, and finding fome of ourKillinchie folks coming by to go to Irvine communion, Iheprefently came along to Scotland with them, bringing withher the child fucking her bread:, and a fervant-woman towait on him; Ihe came with a purpofe to have gone backprefently, but I kept her dill, and brought her with thechild to Lanerk to my father’s, and fent to Ireland forfome of our goods, and remained in Lanerk, till I went'to Slranraveer,While<( 29 )IVliile we were at Irvine, the Lord called home fv/eetMr. Robert, Cunningham, minilterat Holy^wooel, March 29.1637.. for both he a.nd all the reft of the depofed minifters,were forced to-fly out of Ireland. He had many graciousexpreffiofas of the Lord’s goodnefs to him, and his greatpeace in regard of the caufe of his fuffering, and fpokc much^nd well to the presbytery of Irvine, who came to fee himthe day before he died. A little before he died, his wifefittihg on a low bed where he lay, and having her handon his hand, he was in prayer, commending to God his•flock of HolynMood, and his dear acquaintance and children,at lafl he laid, /Ind, 0 Lord, I commend unto thy Care thisgenllen<jotndn, ’ip/io is nonjj 710 more i?iy ’wife ; and with thathe gently thrufl away her hand, and after a while he fleptin the Lord. In the beginning of June, my wife went toIreland, being fent for to be with her mother who wasdying, becaufe I might not go myfelf, I fent my brotherSamuel with her. After the death of her mother, firereturned in Septe??iber next, and came and remained inLanerk, where the 7th of January following, fire broughtforth her fecond fon William. All that Summer 1637.I had as much work of preaching in publick, and exercifesin private, as any time before; partly in Lanerk, partlyin the Wejl, and at communions in divers places, in t]^;Stuarty of Kircudbright and Presbytery of Stranrawer,whiles I was waiting at the Port, for my wife’s comingout of Ireland.This Summer, feveral minifters in Scotland were chargedwith horning, to buy and receive the fervice-bock, whichftirred up great thoughts of heart through the land, bdide atumult in Edinburgh, by feme of the common people atthe firft reading of the J'ervice-book. The true rife of thatblefled reformation in Scotland, began with two petitionsagainft the fervice-book. the one from the Wejl, and theother out of Fife, which met together at the council-doorin Edinburgh, the one not knowing of the other. Afterthat about the 20th of September, a great many otherpetitions were prefented againft the fervice-book : Thcfebeing denied by the king, the nuipbpr of the petitioners.( 3<5 )St>c1 their demands encreafed, for they defined not only■'exemption from the fervid-book, but alfo from the fiveceremonies of Perth, and the high commifion court, andthefe things being denied, they at laft defired freedomfrom Epifcopacy , and a free Parliament, and GeneralAjfentbly: When thefe things were ffill denied, and theirnumber had fo encreafed, that in feme fort they were thewhdebody of the land: they confidering that the Lord’scontroverfy with them was the breach of covenant, did inthe beginning of March 1638. renew the national covenant,which had formerly by authority of king and parliamentfeveral times been fwom.1 was immediately lent port to London, with fevcral copiesof the covenant, and letters to friends at court of bothnations. To 'avoid difeovery, I rode in a gray coat, anda gray montiro-cap. One night riding late, the horfe andI fell to the ground; where I lay about a quarter of anhour as dead, the firff thing I difeovered when I came tomyfelf, I found the guide fitting under me, and crying andweeping, yet it pleafed the Loaf I recovered, and got toFerf ridge, where after a day or two’s flay, I did in twodays come to London, but one of my eyes and part of mycheek being blood foot, I did not go to the flrect, butJffr. ETeazar Borthnvick delivered the letters for me. Somefriends and fomc of the Engtijh nobility came to mychamber, to be informed how rhafters went. I had beenbut a few days there, when Mr. BortEivick came to meand told me," that the marquis of Hamilton had fent himto me, to ihew he had overheard tire king faying, 1 was ;come, but he Ihould endeavour to put a pair of fettersabout my feet: Wherefore fearing"to be way laid in thepoll-way, I bought a horfe and came home by St. Albans,and the IVefler-ivay,I was prefent at Lanerk, and at feveral other parifoes,when on a Sabbath after the forenoon fermon, the covenantwas read and fvvorn; and may truly fay, that in all my life¬time except one day at the kirk of Shots, I never faw Inchmotions from the Spirit of God; all the people generally,and molt-willingly concurring; -where I have feen more thanaC )a thoufand perfons all at once lifting up their hands, and thdtears falling down from their eyes , fo that through thewhole land, except the profeffed Papifls, and fome fewwho for'bafe ends adhered to the Prelates ,' the people; univerfally entred into the covenant of Cod, for reformatioaof religion, againfl Prelates and the ceremonies.P'E R I 0 D IV.The fourth period of my life, I reckon from the time Ieritred in the minifby at Strattrawer, till I was tranfportedto Ancfu?u. In the end of May 1638. I got letters fromthe earl of Cafils, to come to his houfe of Caffils, inreference to a call to a parifli, wherein he had fome interelhWhen I came there, there came both at one time com*miilioners from the town of Stranra’wer in Galloway, andfrom the parifli ot Straitens! in Garrick with a call to me: Idelired fome time to advife; and becaufe both equallyurged, I propounded, that we fhould refer the matter tothe determination of hx minifters, viz. -MdTrs. RobertBlair, David Dickfosi, Andrew, Cant, Alexander Hen-derfon, Samuel Rutherford, and my father, who by occafionat another meeting were all to be at Edinburgh within a fewdays: my own mind inclined mod to Strait on i becaufe itwas a more obfcupe place, and the people being landwartlimple people, were the more likely to be wrought upon bythe gofpel: But they all having heard both parties, advifedme to hearken to the call of Stranrawer, being a thorowfair way w'ithin four miles of Portpatrick, and nearer for theadvantage of out people in Ireland. So-1 was there receivedby the presbytery the 5th of July 1638, and fhortly aftertranfported my family thither, and I remained in the minidryof that place, until Harvejl, 1648. when by the fentenceof the General Afesnbly, I was tranfported to Ancrtisn inTiviotdale. Becaule I had iome houlhold furniture to carry,and the way was fb far, I put my family in a boat at Irvine,and put in a tolerable quantity of meat and drink. The windbeing the fird day very fair, we were like to be foon at outport; the boat’s company confumed mod of all ourprovi-lion, fo that by a calm, and a litfle,contrary wind, beingthree days at fea, the lad day we had neither meat nordrink.' C 32 ydrink, nor could reach no coail:, and .my wife had then achild fucking her bread, yet it plealed the Lord* we camelafe to Lochryan. , - iSome of our friends came out of IreLvrd, and dwelt irtStranraTuer, and at the communions twice in the year*great numbers ufed to come ; at one time 500 peribns.At one time I baptized 28 children brought out of Ire ¬land. ■ > • 'Providence fo ordered, that I was a member 6f theGeneral AJjembty at Giafgvw, in Noveniber whicheftabliihed the reformation of religion, and of the red ofthe General Affemblies, even till that in1 the year 1650;except that of Aberdeen in the year 1640. When I camefird to Stranrawer, fome of the folks of the town ddiredto come to our houfe, to be prelent at our family exerciferTherefore I propounded, that I would rather choofe everymorning to go to the church, and lo each morning the bellwas rung, and we conveened, and after two or three verfesof a pl'alm fung, and a Ihort prayer, fome portion ofScripture was read and explained, only fo long as an half*hour glafs ran, and then clofed With prayer. The wholeparilli was within the bounds of a little town. The peoplewere very tradable and refpedful, and no doubt had Itaken pains, and believed as I ought to have done, morefruit would have appeared among them. I was’fbmetimesswell fatisfied and refrelhed being with fome of them ontheir death-bed.I was fent out by the Presbytery in the year 1640.to go with the carl of CaJ/ils’s regiment, when our armyWent to Nenvciiflle. Our army lay a while at Ghnfely-'ivood,a mile or two from Dunfe, till the relt of the army came up.I had there a little trench tent, and a bed hung between twoleager elicits, and having lain fevend nights with my deathson, I being wearied with want of deep, did ty orre nightwith my cloaths off; that night was very cold, and whileI dept all the cloaths went off me; lo that in the morningI was not able to ltir any part of my body, and I hadmuch ado , with the help of my man and a baggage¬man to get on my cloaths. I eauled them to put me onmy, C 33 ) ,my horle, “and.went to Dunfe, and lay down in a bed, andcaufed them to give me into the bed, a big tin«ftoup full ofwater, whereby a fweat was procured 5 fo that before nightI was able to rife and put on my cloaths. When the wholearmy was come up, it was found that there was want ofpowder and of bread, the bilket being fpoiled, andofcloath.to be huts to the foldiers. This produced fome fears thatthe expedition might be delayed for that year. One daywhen the committee of ejiates and general officers, andfome minijlers were met in the caftle of Dunfe, and wereat prayer, andconfuking what to do, an officer of the guardcomes, and knocks rudely at the door of the room wherewe were; and told there was treachery difeovered, for hegoing to a big cellar in the bottom of the houfe feeking forfome other thing, had found a great many barrels of pow¬der, which he apprehended was intended to blow us allup. After fearch, it was found that the powder had beenlaid in there the year before, when the-army departed fromDunfe-la'w after the pacification, and had been forgotten.Therefore haying found powder, the earls of Rothes andLovjdon, .Mr. Alexander Henderfon, and Mr. ArchibaldJohnfirn were fent to Edinburgh, and within a few daysbrought as much meal and cloath to the foldiers, by the gift1 of well-affecked people there, as fufficed the whole army.The 20th oi Auguji 1640. the army marched into England?i and after fome little oppolition made by . the Englijh army,I paffed Tine at Nenssburn ; had Nenucajile rendred to them,Sand after two petitions to the king, followed the treaty atRipon, and thereafter the Parliament of England in Novem¬ber following* where the large treaty was concluded. Itwas laid upon me by the presbytery of-fche army, to draw* up a narration of what happened in that skirmifli, at Nenu-burn, which I did in a paper out of that I faw or heard fromOthers, by the help of the Lieutenant-general.It was,very,retrdhful to remark, that after we came toa quarter at night, there was nothing to be heard almolfthrough the whole army, but finging of Pfalms, prayer,and reading of Scripture, by the foldiers in their lev era lhuts, and I was informed, there was large more the year£ before.( 34 3before, when the army lay at Dunfe-Law. And indeedin all our meetings and confultings, both within doors andwithout in the. fields ,, always the nearer the beginning,there was fo much the more of dependance upon God, andmore tendernefs in worship and walking, but through procefsof time, we. (HU declined more and more. The day wecame to Nev)l>umt the General, and fome others fteppedafide to. Hadden on the wall; where old Mrs. Finnick metthem, and biirft out and (aid, “ And is it fo, that JehusChrilt will not come to England, for reforming of abufes,without an army■ot 22000 men at his baekr1”In November 164Q. I returned back to Stretnra'wer, allthe reft of the partihes of the country had before that,contributed money to fend to buy cioaths for the foldierswhom they had fent out. This was not yet done inStranraNei’i by reafon of my abfence. We had lent outour fourth fenfible man, viz. 15 men •, The town was hutjhttle and poor; all the yearly rent was eftimated to 2000merks Scots, out of which a part of the minifter’s ftipendwas to be paid, but the earl ot CaJ/ils paid a great part ofit. On the Satubduy morning after I came home, one cameito me to enquire if I had any word to the army, he beingto go the Monday or Tuefday following; Therefore atour mcetirtgin the church on that Saturday, I propoundedunto them the condition of the army ± and delired that theywould prepare their, contribution to be given to morrowqfter fermon, at which time we got £. 45 ftevling, whereofWe fent £. 15 fterling to our own foldiers, and £. 15 tocaptain Ellis’s company, who were all Irijh-mzn, and fo-'had no pari/h in Scotland to provide for them, and £ ■to the Cofnmijfar General to be diftributed by public order.The reafon that we1 got fo much was, that there werefundry families of h-ijh people dwelling in the town. OneMargaret Jam:, the wile of William Scot a malt-man’,who had lied out of Ireland, and were but in a meancondition, gave leven twenty two fhilling fteding pieces,and an eleven pound piece. When the day after I enquiredat her, how ihe came to give fo much ? She anfwered, “ Iwas gathering, and had laid up this to be a part of a portion( si )'to a young daughter I had, and as the Lord hath lately beenpleafed -to take my daughter to himfelf, I thought I wouldgive him her portion alfo,”In Summer 1641. the General AJJhnbly was kept, andafter that the Parliament, where the king was prefent, andratified all thepreceeding work of reformation. When I was| coming home from that Affembly, I ilayed with my fatherin Lanerk, till it pleafed the Lord to call him home tohimfelf. He was worn with fore pains of the gravel, buthad great peace of mind. He died on the Saturdaymorning, and was to be buried on the Monday following.The night before the burial, I had a fore fit of the gravel,which now and then for five years had taken me, andcontinued but with long intermiflions for eight or nine yearsthereafter. This put me in fear that it might continue thetime of the burial; therefore I befought the Lord, if he lbpleafed to free me of the pain, till I might perform that dutyto my father, to fee him buried, altho’ it fliould comeforer on me thereafter. About eight o’clock I was fullyfreed of the pain, and fo continued till all was done, andwas making account it would not return at that time; butwithin an hour after I was come into the houfe, my paincame again, and continued a day or two.In Oft alter 1641. The rebellion broke out in Ireland,many of the religious people in the north of Ireland hadleft it in the year 1637. when the depofed miniffers wereforced out of it by Purfevants, fent out to apprehend them.Others left it in the year 1639. when the Deputy urgedupon all the Scots in Ireland, an oath abjuring the nationalcovenant of Scotland, and fo they were free of that llrokeof the rebellion, while many of thefe that took the oathwere murdered by the rebels. Such as lived near the coaft,over-againft Scotland, for moft part efcaped, and fundryfled from other parts of the country to them. It wasobferved that the ftroke on the people in the north ofIreland, increafed by degrees* At firft they thought it ahard cafe, that they were not fure to enjoy their miniflers,but thereafter their miniflers were depofed. When thatwas found yet harder to be born, the miniflers were forced£ 2 to( 36 .to flee the country, and hirelings thruft in upon them.When that had continued fome time, and they thoughthardly a worfe condition could come, the abjuration oathwas urged upon them, and after all came the bloody fwordof the rebels. And I have heard fome of them that efcapedthe fword of the rebels complain, that they thought theopprellion and infolences of fomc of the Scottijh army, thatcame over, was to them worfe than the rebellion. TheWinter following many came fleeing over to Scotland',fundry to Air and Irvine, and other places of the IVeJ}by fea, but the greateft number came by Portpatrick andStranraiuer, and were generally in a very deflitute con--dition. There had been colledled in Edinburgh and feveralother places about, confiderable fums of money for theirfupply: Of which there was fent to me £ 1000 Scots, todiifribute to needy perfons at their firlt arriving. All thisin a few weeks was diftributed in prefence of fome of ourciders. The moft that was given to any was a half-crown,only a very few got five {hillings fterling, but for the moftpart they got but one fhilling, and fome 18 pence, thenumber was fo great. Of all the numbers that came our way,3 hardly obferved one perfon fufficiently fenfible of thelord’s hand in it, or of deferving on their part, exceptone Englijhman, fo far had the ftroke feized their fpiritsas well as bodies.In April 1642. I was fent by order of the council ofScotland to Ireland, to wait on the Scottijl: army, thatwent over with major general Monro, and ftaid for fixweeks, moft part in Carrickfergus, where the head quarterswere, and for other fix weeks moft part at Antrum, withSir John Clotovorthy and his regiment, who had obtainedan order from the council for me fo to do. I preachedfor moft part in thefe two places ; but fometimes in otherparifhes of the coaft-fide about; and before I left Antrum,we had the communion celebrated there, where fundry thathad taken the oath.did willingly and with great expreflions of.grief publickly confefs the fame. I found a great alterationin Ireland; many of thofe who had been civil before, werehccomc many ways exceeding loofe 5 yea,, fujidry who ascould be conceived had true grace, were dedined miicJi inlendernefs; fo as it would feerh the fword opens a gap,and makes every body woffe than before, an inward plaguecoming with the outward; yet feme few were in a very livelycondition. I went with the army to the field, whim theytook in Ne*wry: a part of the rebels that made fome oppo-fition by the way at the entry of a wood were killed. T heyWere fo fat, that one might have hid their lingers in the lirksof their breads. The people of the north of Ireland, fenteommillioners to the next general ajfeiubly of Scotland,Anno 1642. petitioning for minifters to be fent to them,for now they had none at all. The affenibly thought notlit to loofe any, but for four or five years thereafter, orderedeight minifters in the year to go over'for vifits, two for threemonths, and after them other two, and in the mean timefome godly and able young men to be dealt with to go overfor fettling; and that thefe minifters might in parifhes tiedelderfhips, and with the presbytery of the army, try andadmit minifters. Thefe minifters who went, ufed, for the! moft part, to feparate themfelves to divers parifhes in feveralparts of the country; there being fuch a great number ofvacant parifhes, yet fo as the one would alfo vifit the placewhere the other had been. By this appointment I was; fent over three months in Summer 1643. an^ as l°ng inSummer 1645. In Summer 1646. I went thither with thei marquis of Argyl and fbme other commifiioners, who wentto defire fome of the Scot s'army in Irelavd, to be fent toScotland-, and Anno 1648.1 was defired by the commiffionI of the kirk to deal with the army there, not to fend anyto the engagers. For the moft part of all thefe three monthsI preached every day once, and twice on the Sabbath; thedeftitute parifhes were many; the hunger of the peoplewas become great; and the Lord was pleafed to furnifhotherwife than ufually I wont to get at home. I cameordinarily the night before to the place where I was topreach, and commonly lodged in fome religious perfon’shoufe; w here w e were often well refrefhed at family excr-cife: Ufually I defired no more before I went to bed, butto make fure the place of Scripture J was to preach on dienext3? )).next day. And rifmg in the morning, I had four dr fivehours myfeli alone, either in a chamber or in the fields;after that we went to church, and then dined, and thenrode five or fix miles more or lefs to another parifh. Some¬times there would be four or five communions in feveralplaces in the three months time. I efteemed thefe vifits inIreland, the far bell time of all the while I was in Gallo¬way. After the year 1647. or 1648. xhttgeneralajjemblyfent no more any for vifits to Ireland, becaufe by thattime feveral godly and able minifters were fettled there.The minifters with whom I kept moft fociety, and lywhofe counfel and company I profited moft, were mybrother MacClellan at Kircudbright, Meffrs. Robert Ha¬milton at Ballantrae, George Hutckifon IlX. Cohnonell, andin the presbytery of Stranrawer, Alexander Turnbull atKirkrnaiden, John Dick at Inch, George Dick at Glen-luce, and in the presbytery of Wigtoun, Andrew Lauderat Whithorn, and John Park at Mochrum, who fucceededme at Stranrawer; and v/ith all thefe I have been at com¬munions at Stranraiver.PERIOD V.The fifth period of my life, I reckon from the time Iwas fettled in the miniftry at Ancrutn, to this prefentFebruary 1666. In Summer 1648. I had a call from theparifli of Ancrum, an invitation from the presbytery ofJedburgh , and a prefentation from the earl of Lothianthe Patron, arid by aft of the general affembly, that yearwas tranfported thither, and was received by the presbytery.I the rather inclined to that place, becaufe I found they weregenerally Jandwart fimple people; whoforfbme time before,had not had fo much of the gofpel as to defpife it. In theHarveft following, I tranfported my family thither. I foundthe tranfporting very troublefome, being above too milesand bad tvay, with a numerous family, fix children, oneof them fucking the breaft, four or five fervants, and fomefurniture and books; yet the Lord brought us all fafe thither.I dwelt a year or two in a houfe of the earl of Lothian's,f1fttill one was built for me. The people were very tradablebut very ignorant, and fotne of them loofe in th ir carriage,and it was along time before any competent number of themwere brought to fuch a condition, as we might adventureto celebrate the Ordinance of the Lord’s fupper, but afterfome time feverals of them began to lay religion to heart.In the year 1649. the parliament of Scotland and thechurch alio, had fent fome commilTioners to treat with theking at the Hague, for fecurity to religion and libertiesof the country, before his admilfion to the exercife of hisgovernment; thefe had returned without fatisfaclion, yetthe parliament fent again in Summer 1650. the earls ofCaJJils and Lothian, Alexander Brody ol that ilk, one ofthe lords of feiTion, Mr. George Windram of Libertoun,another of the lords of feffion, Mr. John Smith and Alex¬ander J affray, to profecute the forefaid treaty with the kingat Breda. The coinmiffion of the kirk chofe Mr, JamesWood and me, and after that alfo, by my lord Caffils'%procurement, Mr. George Hntchifon.To us were joined Gdffils and Brody as ruling elders,that in name of the church, we Ihould prefent and profecutetheir delires; and becaiife much depended on that treaty.Twill out of my own private obfervations, more fully fetdown the fame. When it was firftldid upon me to go,I was mod averfe therefrom: my reafons were three; Find,my own infufficiency, having-both a kind of himiral antipathyagainft public imployments and State matters, and havingfome fcruple,- that fome minifters meddled but too muchtherein: and knowibg my own Unacquaintednefs with, andinability in fuch things, and riiy foftncls of difpofition, readyto condefcend tooealily to anything having a Ihow of reafon;not being able to debate or difpute any buiinefs, fo that Ifeared I Ihould lie a grief and lhame to thofe that fent me.Beiides that I could not fpeak promptly the Latin tongue,which was requifite among foreign divines. This reafonI cKprclfcd in the commiflion of the kirk: The other twowhich weighed as much with me I fupprefied. The fecondwas, when I conlidered the commiflioners fent by the State,I was not willing to imbark in any bufinefs with them.C 4° > ,Cafills, BrsJy,. and Alexander Jaffray I had no exceptionagainft. The other three I lu(petted wopid bc more readyto condefcend to an agreement upon tin fide terms. LothianI had found two years befoxe Anno 164S. when the Wejlrofc againlt the Engagers rettiming home from England\that he was very difi'aiisikd with their rihog, and he wasmany ways involved, with the marquis of Angyie, who ofa long time had been, very entice with William Murray, arid$>\r flqlH’rt Murrayi negotiators;for tlie king, and who, ’fitsthought, pnt him in hope, that the king might marry hisdaughter. Libertoun had been long with thp king at Jerj'ayiand brought the overture of the treaty, and. mall his difeottrvfes gave evidence of a moll earned delire, upon any terms) 'to have the king brought home; whereupon it is like, hethought he would have- a chief (hare oi the thanks, . barJohn Smith had tampered with James Graham 1645, and 1was a man of no great ability; and what ability he had, I (fufpe&ed would not be well employed. The third reafohwas, when I looked upon the whole b.nfinefs, the termswhereupon the king was to be admitted to his government,upon his bare fubferibing and fwcaring fome words, withoutany evidence that .it was done from the heart, I fufpecledit might prove a defign for promoting a malignant intered,to the prejudice of the work ©f (iod, and that our nobleswho had power in their hands, fearing if matters went onas formerly, that dity might be levelled, and knowing thatmany in the kingdom would be ready to receive the kingupon any terms, whom poilibly, the malignants might bringhome without them , and knowing that after lb many jbackflidings, the well affebted were but few, and many ofthem (Imple, and all of them delirous to give the king allhis due, i religion and liberty being fecured, they thought itfafeh to have the king, not looking much what might havebeen the confequence. For thefe reafons I was fully refolvedto have gone home, and taken my hazard of any ccnfure ofthe kirk for my difobedience ; efpecially when I perceivedthat fundry well alfedled, whofe judgment I much reveren- iced, had great fears of the ilfue of the treaty; but accordingas my nature is blunt, and ready to yield, chiefly to thole✓ * whomwhom I know both pious and wife; Me firs. David Dickfsn,"James Guthrie, and Patrick Gillefpie, after fome while’3dealing, prevailed with me to go. One word I foolilhlyfpoke then to them, which many times thereafter met me:“ That ere I condefcended to go, and to have an handin the confequences that I apprehended would follow, Iwould chufe rather to condefcend, if it were the Lord’swill, to be drowned in the waters by the Way.”That very day we landed at Camphier, Lothian andLibbertoun propounded, that letters might be wrote by thecommiflioners, to duke Hami It cun, the earl of Lauderdale,and fome other malignants, at the Hague, to come toBreda, to help forward the treaty. This was not agreedto, but the propounding was no good prelage of a blelfing,and Ihewed what fort of men fome were minded to makeufe of. But howfoever all thefe came.When we wrere come to Breda, it was put on my lordCaffils, to make fome fpeech to the king at our frit receiv¬ing, and on me to make another fpeech after him, in nameol the Church. This fpeech I did prepare; wherein werefome things a little free, fuch as I thought became a mi-niiter to fpeak, concerning the king himfelf, and his father’shoufe, and the counfel and ways he had followed. ThisI did communicate firft to the commiilioners of the church,after to thofe of the State. But it was once and again faaltered with delations and additions, that it was nothing likeitfelf. Every thing that was thought harfh, behoved tobe delate, and lome things added, fuch as would be favouryin the entry of the treaty to the king and court. I thoughtit was not my part to hand peremptory for a paper of myown drawing, and they told me it was not my own mind Iwas to follow, but theirs; whereupon I agreed to all. Sodangerous it is for a man of a Ample difpofition, to beyoked with thefe who by wit, authority, and boldnefs canovermafter him. When we began frit to keep any meet¬ings, the commiflioners of the State did choofe Cajfils tobe our prelident, and after continued him during all thetime. Some of us at firfl thought it a benefit, to have himprgfident, of whom we had molt confidence; but wc didF ' find. - . r C 42: .find it thereafter a difadvantage, fur ordinarii^ LethiatiiJAbbertoan, - -and Sit' John Smith agreed in one voice, and.that foitrctiihes fuch as fome of® were not well plcafedwith. Now there were to be of a contrary epinion-onljfBrody and Jaffray, and thus three being againd two carriedit, the prefident not having liberty to give his Vote, exceptwhere there is-an equality. Some of our number urgedonce, that the treaty might be byword of mouth, and notby papers; but that was rejected- The drawingaip of thepapers to be prefented to the king-, was Committed by thefiof the State to Brodyy and by thefe of the church to Mr.James IVctod; wherein this overfight Was' committed in thevery lirll papers, that the words and purpofe of the inltrudti-ons were not fully kept to; but both in the order andmatter, fomewhat was altered or left out by them thatdrew them up, and more thereafter was altered upon debatein the meetings, whether for cxCrnation of the language,or to feem not to be tied to the words and order of them)Or to make things fmooth in the beginning,-or if there werea defign in foroe that debated the -alterations, that- fomethings might not be mentioned at firft, which they havingfounded the mind of the court, found- would not be eahlygranted, I Cannot certainly fay. But we found it did greatharm thereafter, when thefe of the court alleged, that webehoved to reft finished with wh*t was in otirfoft papers,We had accefs to the-king on Tucfday, yet no papers ofthe treaty were delivered to him till the-Monday after;which was fome neglect of diligence, the parliament liavinglimited the treaty to thirty days, and only -granting tendays more, in cafe there were appearance of agreement atthefe thirty days'end. And after the delivering of thefefirft papers, Lothian, Libbertoun, and Sir John Smith',went to Antwerp and Bruffels, and llaid eight or ten days:,fo that when the king had given us his firft papers the Satur¬day following, no return could be made to them throughtheir abfence, till Wednefday or Thu rf day of the followingweek. We found the king of a courteous and tradable liktdifpofition, which made fome of us fufiped that if all had dealtalike eameftly, cfpecially Lothian and Libbertoun, who moftfrequently< 43 ')frequently and privately reforted to the court, but mollof ail Libbertoun, that the king at the iirlt had granted allour defires fully. The. reafoiji why we thus fufpedted,was, thefe of our .number in debating in our meetingsagreed that' he Ihould not be fo much preffed in them :alleging frequently that commiffioners had always powerto manage their indrudiions, and that we ought not forfuch things to break off the treaty, and undo the king andhis bulinefg. None of us three, miniderg ever went to theking alone,., but often ail together, or at lead two of us.We went feldom, but whenever we went, we had acccfsand liberty to day, and fpeak fo long as we pleafed. Weoft urged that if the king had any fcruples againd the cove¬nant, or any of the parts of uniformity, or defires of thetreaty, that he would impart them to us : but he neverpropounded any fuch thing to us. One time I lying lick: of the megrum, the other two having been with him repot tedto me, that having entred into a kind of dilpute with himabout epiftolpacy and ceremonies; they found that he hadbeen poifoned in his principles by thofe that had been withhim; denying-that the Scriptures were a perfect rule inthefe things controverted; and enquiring how people knewit was the word of God , but by the tedimony of diechurch ?All the while of the treaty at Breda, he continued theufe of the fervice-book, and of his chaplains , and manynights there was balling and dancing fometimes till nearday. At the beginning of the treaty it was reported to•j us by Libbertouu, that a gentleman had come to the kingfrom Paris, being fent by his mother, defiring that byall means he would clofe with the Scots, otherwife die wasrefolvcd never to come out of that cloider, through thegate whereof die then fpoke to the gentleman. And allJ the while it was fo looked upon, that there were twofactions at court, the one (the Queen’s fadtion) was forthe clofe of the treaty; the other, called prince Rupert's,wherein was alfo the queen of Bohemia his mother, andj James Graham, were fuppofed to be againd the treaty,h All thefe things made me always fufpedt there would beY 2 no( 44 ) ... -no ble{rmg,'On the treaty, and many a time Mr. Hutchifonand I whofe chambers joined clofe to one another, wouldconfefs one to the other, that we were glad when the treatywas like to break up, and fad when there was appearanceof doling it. It was found thereafter, that in the verytime of the treaty, James Graham bycommiflion from theking, invaded Scotland with an army; who being defeated,his commiflion was found, himfelt brought to Edinburgh,and hanged. It was an omiffion, that we who were com-miiTioners for the kirk , feldom ever met in a meetingfeverally, for profecuting of our inllrudions, but fatisfied©urfelves with drawing up, and giving in our papers, fromthe State papers, and with joining with the meetings of thecpmmiflioners of the State, when they met. I was difl’atisfiedwith the whole management' of the treaty, for fir It it feemedrather like a merchant’s bargain of prigging fomewhat higheror lower, than ingenuous dealing; and fo far as could bedifeerned, the king granted nothing, but what he was ina fort compelled to; and which, if he had had his fullfreedom, he would not willingly have granted, which pofliblywas rather the fault of thofe that were about him, than hisOwn. 2d/v, The prince of Grange, and one MrdM‘dcnualwho were employed by the king, were fometimes fpokenwith: But Lauderdale, who had done no good offices toScotland before, whether brought in, or coming of himfelf,was prefent at fome of our meetings and debates, and papersand refolutions were communicated fometimes to him, andlo duke Hamiltoun. i,dly, The king in his demands, thegranting whereof he defired to be previous to all his con-teflions, required fome things, which altho’ they w'ere notdiredtly granted, yet difeovered his purpofe and inclination,as that there fhould be an union of all for promoting hisintereft. And altho’ the demand did not mention the Irifhrebels and Jatnes Graham, yet, if it had been granted, itwould have included them, s^thly, Some of the king’sdemands, as that about the engagers, and that about theenfuring the prcfccuting of the king’s interefl in England,trie commiffioners tho’ not inilrufted to anhver thefe, yet'adventured to go g good length ta giving aflhrance forthem,C 4S )and faid, for the firfl they had an a& of parliament fortheir warrant, altho’ it was replied, that not acb of par¬liament, but their fpecial inftrinftions were the boundingof their commiflion, and that fame aft of parliament did,not fully warrant what they granted. $thly , In femedebates, when they were for granting things which werenot in their inftrudions, it was many a time by them al-- leged, that they had private inftruftions, yet when at lad:fome defired a fight of them, it was confdfed they hadnone. Only fome words had been fpoken by fome primemen in private conference. 6thly, In the king’s commiffions,which by the parliament’s indrudHons, Ihould have preceededany invitation, fome material things were left out, yet theyproceeded to clofe the treaty, and to invite, and fomedebated that the want of thefe tilings Ihould not hinder thedoling thereof. Altho’ thereafter when the clofed treatywas fenthome, the parliament by their fecond inftrudHons,which were no other but the renewing of the firft, declaredthat they did not approve the treaty without thefe.When fome urged that the parliament of Scotland, wouldnot find themfelves obliged to the treaty, if things wereagreed to befide, or beyond the inllruftions; ’twas replied• by fome of the commiffioners, that they had heads, andeftates to lofe, and that the parliament might call them toan account for what they did, but both the parliament andkingdom of Sca/ZaW, would be bound to all that they haddone in their name. All thefe things I was difiatisfiectwith, and in my own blunt way, declared the fame, asI had occafion to fpeak ; but had not the ability or hardinefsto debate and argue any of thefe things. There was nogreat hafte made the lirll three or four weeks of the treatv,but v/hen it came towards the fortieth day, it was muchurged by fome of the commiflioners, that by any meanathe treaty Ihould come to agreement, before that day werepall:, and when it came to the lall: day that the invitationto the king was drawn up and to be fubferibed, they firftenquired the opinion of us three minifters, becaufe we couldnot have a vote among themfelves, who were commiffionersthe State: When my opinion was afked, “ I told thatas I conceived, althp’ a State or their'coiTMiiidioners fliould' agree with a king, upon terras dh^dvant^geous to religionand liberty, a minillpr might wch Ihow his mint!, but if theywent on, it was. not a minister’s part to opppfe,the fame;.but fubmit himlelf tathe government, althpugh cot rightly, . conlututtd, and ddirod them to do according as, they found-themlelves warranted in their qpmmhhon and inttrudions,”I am hnce convinced, that I might have deah more freely,and iiiew^d them, diat I thought their proceedings werenot confonant to their irittrudtions, and that the honeftparty in Scotland, Would not be fatisiicd with them; andthat fo far as I could difeern, there was no appearanceof a bleffing from.God upon thertreaty: but partly I faw.fuch a torrent in carrying, on that bulinefs, partly I fome-what doubted ihy own judgment, and partly my weaknefsof nature made me hegiedt that duty. . >After this Mri James Qalrymple fecretary to die com*miflioners, was fent home to Scot hind widi the cjofed treaty.I thought to have written home my fenfe of the wholebufinefs, but partly we were llridily forbidden by the com-milfioners, to divulge any thing of the treaty, or write anything of it; and partly I had obferved Mr. Dairywple/i.little too forward, for that fame way of doling the treaty.Ahho’ great hade was made to clofe the treaty, yet afterit was ended , we perceived no great hade of going toScotland.The Saturday before the king left Breda, to come toScotland, we got notice about three or four of the clockin the afternoon, that he was about to communicate kneelingthe morrow after. We dial were commiffioners for thechurch, prepared a paper and prefented it to him, and bothin the paper and by ipeech, (hewed the lin o( fo doing, andthat it would provoke God to blad all his defigns, and whatinconveniency it might bring on his bulinels, and confir¬mation to all enemies, and what fcandal to fuch as werehoned, and how it was againd that which he had grantedin his conceilions, and would confirm feme to think, thatjhe was but dallying with God and with us; we left himto think upon it till after iupper, but when we went to him,VCC 4* )tvc found him: terulcloufiy refolutc to continue his purpofc.He faid, His father ufed always to communicate atChriltmafs,, Ealter, and hit fun day, anq he Behoved todo fo likewife, and that people would think llrangc of him,if having refolved to communicate he fhpuld forbear it, andtliat.he did it to procure a bit-fling from God on his intendedvoyage.” W e Ihewed him that we feared the Lord ihouldindeed declare whether he approved that his way or not;and earneltly preifed he would forbear, feeing altho’ theaction were never io lawful, he might upon fomc conlidera-tions forbear it; but v/e could not prevail. He did com¬municate kneeling, and belides fome diforder committedby the chaplain, Bramble, who was once pretended Biihopof Derry, and did give the bleffing after the adtion. Itwas abundantly known to all the commihioners, that moltof all the maiignants and evil inlhuments about the kingwere intending to go to Scotland with him ; yet no effedtuaicourfe was taken to debarr them, altho’ it was one of the, jnllrudtions to urge the fame.On Saturday thereafter when all the commillioners Were; aboard, except.Cajfds and Lothian, who were with the king: at Unflidyh, the new letters and inllrudiions from the: parliament and commiffion of the kirk, , were brought,wherein they declared their diflatisfadtion with the treaty;and fuch other things to be obtained; and declared the1 treaty otherways to be null and void, and the perfonsnames were fe.t down who Ihould be left in Holland. Theft:a came to the two lords, and being read- by them, and, as|k fome fay, ihown to Handltoun and Lauderdale, who wereexprdlyby thefe inflrudtions forbidden to come to Scotland,were lent aboard to us. How welcome thefe vvqre to lomeof us is not cafy to exprefs; others, as particularly Lih-bertoun, were not fo well fatisfied with them, hut prefentlyv.'C took boat to go aihore, with refolution not to comej aboard till we had obtained fatisfiufHon to the parliament.’ The wind did not fuller us to go aihore at Torbay, which< was the next way to Vnjlidyke, but put us to Savelin,> where landing about midnight, and not being .able to go inwaggons6-( 43 )waggons to Torbay, tlie fea being full, we fent two onfoot to Torbay to meet the lords, if they Ihould comethither before ye came at them, to defire them not to goaboard, till we Ihould come to them. For we were afraidthat after thefe letters, (altho’ the wind was contrary) boththe king and lords, and the malignants, who Ihould havellaid behind, Ihould make hafte to go aboard before anymore treaty. We ourfelves behoved to go about by theHague, and rode all night, and coming to UtijUdyke aboutbreak of day, or a little after, found that the king andall were gone. .We followed fo fall as we could to Torbay,but all were gone aboard; the two that we had fent metthe lords, and fpoke as we had delired them; but theylaid Lothian would needs go aboard with the king, anddrew CaJ/ils along with him. When we were Handingamazed on the fhore, one Mr. IVebjier of Arnfierdamcomes to go aboard, and warn the king, that the parliament■of England had twenty two fhips at fea to wait for him.He going aboard in a boat, Libbertoun without more ado,runs to the boat to go aboard to the reil, and after him SirJohn Smith upon his call, in the lame boat. Brody, Mr.Jaffray, and we three minillers llaid. Some of us mayfay, we never law a heavier day than that Sabbath was.A Iter prayer together and apart, when we were conful tingwhat to do, Mr. James Wood’s opinion was to go aboard;faying that it was a pity that the king and my lord CajjilsIhould be there and none to preach to them. Brody, andAlexander Jaffray laid,, it were to have been wilhed thatthey had ilaid alhore, but now as matters Hood, it was bellto go aboard and difcharge their trull, in the lad inllrudlionsfrom the parliament; Mr. George Hutchifon inclined to thefame. For my part I told, I had no light, nor inclinationto go aboard : I thought both in regard of the profanemalignant company, and in regard how matters Hood in.the treaty, we were taking along the plague of God toScotland, and I Ihould not delire to go along, but wouldgo back to Rotterdam, and come with the lirlt conveniency.Hereat Mr. Hutchifon laid he would go back with me, andnot let it be faid, that I was left alone in a Hrange country.1. C 49 ?I urged him, that feeing his light ferred him to go aboard,he would not draw back from it for me. As for me, Ihad Edward Cillefpie, who brought us the parliament’sletters, and John Don, and my brother Andrew Etevenjhtto go along with. He peril fled that he would go with me,yet thereby my mind would not incline to go aboard. By( this time a: boat comes from the king’s fhip, and lettersfrom the two lords, defiring us, as we would not marr thebufinefs of the king and kingdom, to come aboard-: yet totall this my mind was bent for Roterdam. At laft Brod},and Mr. Hutchifdti propounded, that I Ihould only go tothe Ihip fide, and there the reft ihould come down to theboat, that we might fpeak a little of our bufinefs, and I, fttould take my leave of them, and come aihore again in thefame boat: to this, altho’unwillingly, I did agree. Whenthe boat was come to the iltip fide, and the reft gone up,ftaid in the boat looking they ihould come down; butCajfih and Mr. Hutchifon came and called me up, faying,Ijf it would beunfeemly for commiftioners of the kingdom of, Scotland, in fight of fo many onlookers, to come to an,j open boat to fpeak to any bufinefs, and defii ed that 1! would only come a little to the gunner-room and fpeakwith them, and the boat fliould be ftaid till I ihould go! back. I went up and defined a young man that waswith me to wait that the boat ihould not go away. But[I within a little While he comes and tells, that the boat wrasI gone and under fail. Whether this was done of purpofc,men making a mock of peeviihnefs and folly as they thought,or otherwife, I will not determine j but I looked upon myfelf as in little other condition than a prifoner. That nightwhen they were confulting what to do in reference to theirlaft inftruftions, Lothian and Libberton were of the mind,that no application ihould be made to the king about thefelate inftruCtions, till they arrived in Scotland, faying, thatif they did, it would provoke the king to take fome other'I courfe, and not go to Scotland at all. The nexrday, Inot being well, and having but very ill accommodation inI that ihip wherein the king was, Mr. Jcfftey and I wentli aboard another (hip, called the Sun of Amjkrda?;:,. where(L we< .5° )we Raid for feveral days, till we were again called aboardthe king’s ihip, and confultation had what to do in referenceto the new inltruftions. If it had not been that Sir JohnSmith, who ufed not before in his Vote to differ from Lo¬thian, and Liboerton, had given his vote for applications,there had none been made before we had come to Scotland;but he and Brody, and Mr. Jeffrey, being for applications,3twas carried by one vote; and fo papers were prepared andgiven to the king, who by his next papers delired to knowwhether the commiffioners would Hand to their firll agree¬ment, and give him affurance of honour, fafety and freedomin Scotland, as they had done before. V\ hen much debateto and again had been ufed for many days, and at lull papers jhad been prepared by commiflioners both of State andChurch for exoneration, and in fhort giving up the treaty,and when there was no appearance of fatisfa&ion, but ratherof the contrary, all of a fudden, on tire Friday before wecame afhore in Scotland, Libber ton comes fronl the king,and tells, That the king was ready to fwearand fubferibethe covenant. This was fufpicious like to fome of us,cfpecially feeing fome other things which fhould have beengranted before that, were not then agreed to, and that theparliament in thefe lafl inflruclions, had not defired theking’s fubferibing and fwearing tire covenant, but an obli¬gation to do it. But thefe other things were afterwardsgranted that day. And becaufe ere we came out of Scotland,it was defired, that if the king could be moved to fvvear thecovenant in Holland, it fhould be fo done, the commillionersrefolved that they would accept of his fwearing and fub-feription. It was laid On me to preach the next Sabbathwhen he fhould fwcar it, and to read the national covenantand foleiun league, and take his oath; the which day alioWe came to an anchor at the mouth of the Spey. I wouldgladly have put it off till we had been in Scotland, or thatfome of the oth r two miniflers fhould preach, but all thereft preffed molt earneftly, urging what a great fcandal itwould be; and how far honeft men would be diffatisfied,ifthe king’soffer of fwearing the covenant fhould be rejected.AccordingI According to my foftnefs and fillinefs of difpofition, I wasmoved to agree.On the Sabbath morning before we met for fermon, fometold me that the king was minded to fpeak fome wordswhen he fworc the covenant, that what he did (hould notl import any infringing of the laws of the kingdom of Eng¬land; In that way he faid, he behoved to prevent theHumbling his Englijh fubje&s, becaufe in the declarationannexed to the covenant which he was to fwear, he boundhimfelf to confirm afts , bills or ordinances of the parliamentof England, ratifying the folenin league and covenant;which adts and ordinances were expired with the late king.I went to the reft of the commillioners and told them; and| we all went to the king and told him, that we could notreceive his oath, if he added any thing to the words thatwere to be read, that would declare the oath no oath. Heprelfed much and long that he behoved to do it; fo that Ibegan to be hopeful his fwearing might be put off for thatday. At laft he faid, he would forbear to fpeak thefoI words. Yet I urged, that feeing both he and wc were infome heat and diftemper by that difpute, that his fwearingmight be forbofn till another day; but both he and thecommiffioners preffed, that it fhould not be delayed. Forthe outwafd part of fwearing and fubferibing the covenant,the king performed any thing that cotlld have been required;but it feems to have been the guilt not of the commillionersonly, but of the whole kingdom, of the State, yea, of thfeChurch, who knew the terms whereupon the State was toadmit him to his government, yet without any evidenceof a real change upon his heart; and without forfakingformer principles, counfels and'company; yea when, asfome fay, letters found among James Graham'% papers didevidence thO contrary, yet they proceeded to admit himto the exercifo of his government; whereas by the laftinftrudtions by the parliament, which came to the com-rmflioners hands in Holland, ere the king and they cameaboard, ten or twelve perfons CXprefly named Ihould nothave come home, yet all theft perfons except two or threewho were not prefont, did come along to Scotland. Isei-G 2 thyr( p. >ther did thc commiiTionci s of'the State make any applicationto the king, by a fubfcribed paper about, that article oftheir inftrudions, till two days after he was landed inScotland at the Bogue oi Geigh, at which time they weretill in the country ; and at this time did Caflils to myobfervation, give fome evidence of declining; for from thevery time that thefe lalt inhrudions came, he did alwaysdeclare himfclf dtfiatisfied, that the parliament fliould havefontrouled any thing of their proceedings in the trea ty, tillthey had been prefent to anfwer for themfijlves. After wehad landed I drew behind, and left the king and the court,and never did lee him again but one blink in Dundee as Iwas coming homeward. After we were come to Edinburgh^the general affetubly. being fitting, and Mr. Hutch'Jbn andI being defined to make relation to the ajfembly, of theproceedings of the treaty, we firfl committed what we haddrawn up to fome miniuers in private, and tojd them of theking’s kneeling at the communion, and of the paper whichtve had given him thereabout, and fome of thofe thingsabove-mention’d ; but they defined us to forbear the men¬tioning of that paper in the affeiubly, or any thing that mighttend to make the king or his way odious, in the entry of hisgovernment; apd we at their defire did forbear.The while I was in Holland, my wife riding by the milnof Nether Ancrum, through the unfkilfulnefs of the fervantthat rode before her, fell in the miln-dam, and was carrieddown the troughs, till with her body fhe flopped the outerwheel then faff going. Providence. fo ordered, that thewheel wanting one of the awes, and juft over-againfl thatpart of the wheel which wanted th;it piece of timber, herbody was drawn down and fo flopped die going of the miln,and continued in that pafe, the water ftill falling about her,till a gentleman who law her, and was about half a quarterof a mile diftant, came running, and caufed the people togo within tfie mfin, and turn the outer wheel back, and fogot her out and carried her home. She was alt bruifed,and on the third day a fore fever feized her, yetitpleafedthe Lord that fhe recovered, and wrote to me to Holland,dbft ftu; thought fiie was therein an emblem vf what ourtreaty. C n )treaty was like to brihg on the church and land. WhenI took my leave of the king at Dundee, I being alone withhim, begged liberty to ufe fome freedom with him, whichhe granted ; after I had fpoken fome things about hiscarriage, I propounded, that he faw the Englijh army,animated by many victories, for his fake coming in upon■Scotland, which at prefent was in a very low condition,and therefore that he might with his council devife fomeway to divert the prefent ftroke, by a declaration or fomefuch w'ay, wherein he, needed not quit or weaken hisright to the crown of England; only ihow that for theprefent, he was not to profecute his title by the fword, butwait till their confulions being evaniflred, they were inbetter cafe to .be governed, and till he were callcd by thepeople there; which I was confident a fhort while’s goodgovernment in Scotland would eafily produce. He wasnot pleafed to relifh the motion, and faid, he hoped I■ would not wifh him to fell his father’s blood. By thatIand fpme other paffages of my life I gathered, that eitherI was not called to meddle in any public State matters, orthat my meddling fliould have but fmaH fuccefs; for in[the year 1654. when I was in Loudon, I propounded tothe lord protestor, that he would take off the heavy fines.Which they had laid on feveral in Scotland; which neither:l they were able to pay, and the payment would alienateI their minds the more; He feemed to like the overture;but when he had fpoken with his council, many of thembeing to have a fhare in thefe fines, they went on. in theirpurpofe.The general ajj'enibly appointed fome miniffers, andamong them me alfo, to wait on the army, and the com-tnittee of eftates that reiided with the army ; But theapprehenfion and fear of what enfued, made that I had nofreedom to go thither, and fo went home, till we got thefad news of the defeat at Dumbar. After that I got alfoletters from them that were in Dumfries, who were uponthe fide of the remonflrance, to come and join with them;but I had not clearnefs to go. Some while after I wentto Stirling, to thy cojiimiffion of the khjt; and there in agreat. C *4 > .great meeting declared how fenfible I tvas, that beingover-ruledbyfome others, [ had not made a perfedt narrationof the treaty in the general afje-nibly. The Winter afterthe defeat of Dumbar, I (laid at home, as did mod of theminifters and gentry of the South, and fo were in a farbetter condition than thofe of fome other parts, where theminifters and gentry went to the North-U&c <)£Forth; forthe Englijh army deftroyed almoft all that they left.Sometimes fome. of the Englijh quartered in my houie, butneither many nor long. While they (laid, I did neithereat nor drink with any of them, nor hardly fpoke withthem, nor ever went on bufinefs to any of their officers,.Yea, when general 'Crotttnvel wrote to me from Edinburgh^to come and fpeak to him, I excufed myfelf.That Winter the unhappy bufinefs fell out about thepublic refolutions. My light carried me to join with themthat protefted againft thefe refolutions, and the ajfemblythat followed thereafter: and I was prefent at the firftmeeting of fome of the protefters in the Weji at Kilmarnock,thereafter at feveral of their meetings; but indeed I wasnot (atisfied in my mind, that the protefters kept fo manymeetings, fo numerous, and of fo long continuance, whichI thought made the diviiion wider, and more confpicuousthan otherwise it would have been, and therefore I (laidfrom many meetings.About two or three years after the Englijh had in amanner fubdued the land, there began fome reviving of thework of God in the land. In feveral parts fundry werebrought in by the miniftry of the word; amongft whichthere were fomc alfo in the pariffi of Aucriim, and otherparts of the South. In Tiviotdale and the Merfe, com-munions were very lively and much frequented. We hadfeveral monthly meetings in thefe two (hires. The mini¬fters in that country with whom I kept moft correfpon-dence, were in Jedburgh presbytery where I lived, Meflfs.James Ker at Abotrule, John Scot at Oxnam, and my fon-in-law John Scot at Haoxick. In other presbyteries, Meffirs.James Guthrie at Lauder (who thereafter went to Stirling)‘Thomas Donaldfon at S me Horn, John 1'eitch at Wejirnthcr,James( 5$ >James Kirkton at Merton, William Elliot at Tarow, JohnSumervail at Ednam, Samuel Row at Sprquflon, EdwardJamifon at Swinton, David. Douglas at Hilton, JamesTweedic at Guidon, Tkomds Ramfay sx. Mordington, LukeQgle at Berwick. The gentlemen 5n that country withwhom I converfed moil, were, Sir Andrew Ker of Green-head, Sir William Scot of Harden, Sir Gideon Scot offfaychejler. Sir Walter Riddel of That Ilk, and his fon;Walter Pringle of Grecnknow, George Pringle of Tor-wood-lie, Alexander Prhigle of Whitebank ; and their ladiesalfo. As alfo the lady Stobs, the lady Newton, and Mrs.Elliot of Craigend. All thefe I looked upon as wellaffefted perfons, and have been often well refrdlied atexercife in their houfes, and at communions where fomc ofthem had interell, and at communions with feveral of theminiiters before*mentioned, all within the province of fl/er/eand Tiviotdale, and at Borthwick, Orntijlon, Whitekirk,and Innerwick, within the province of Edinburgh.A motion being made at one communion, about chriftianshonouring God with their fubliance, the gentlemen abovenamed, together with molt of the miniilers before-men¬tioned , and fome few other profelfors, agreed amongthemfelves, and fubferibed to give a certain portion yearly,which came in all to 50 Lib.Jler. a year, and was employedonly upon diftrelfed chriftians, and breeding of hopefulyouth in learning.In Summer 1654. Patrick Gillefpie, Mr. JohnMenzies and I, were called by letters from the Protestorto come to London: I went becaufe he had the prefentpower over the land, and I hoped we might procure fomegood to Scotland. I went the rather, becaufe at that time,the Mofs-troopers were in the night-time Peeking for meat my houfe, and I was not like to be long in fafety ; butbeing at London, I found no great advantage, fo I left theother two there, and came home. After that the pari/hof Killinchie in Ireland where I had formerly been, fenta commilfioner once and again, with a call to me to returnto them. If I could have obtained fair loofing, my mindinclined fomewhat to have gone, becaufe of the prefentdiffractionsdiilrraclions in Scotland, and becaufe that T thougnt Irelandhad more need, and more appearance of fuccefs; but manya time both before and after, I found that things I inclinedto were difappointed, and fell better out another way.The lynod of Merfe and Tiviotdale refufed to loofe me,and live or fix minillers in other parts, on whofe judgmentsI relied, diffwaded me; only they advifed me that I Ihouldfirlf make a vifit to Ireland; therefore in Summer 1656.I went over; and our friends in Tiviotdale put themfelvesto the trouble, to fend collonel Ker, and Mr. John Scotof Oxnam along, to fee the cafe of Ireland. When I cameI could not get preaching in Killinchie-my way as in formertimes, and that I took as a declaration of the Lord’s mind,that I Ihould not go to fettle there; yea, 1 did not find abovetwo or three families, nor above ten or twelve perfons thathad been in that paridj when I was there. So great achange had the rebellion and devallation brought, and thatall almoll were new inhabitants. I preached in feveralparts, and at fome communions, and was at a great meetingof their presbytery in the North, which was more like afynod ; where were 30 or 36 minilters, and ruling eldersfrom 60 or 80 parifhes, and that presbytery was dividedin three feveral committees, that met apart in three feveralparts of the country. One of thefe committees had 20 or24 vacant parilhes, which they fupplied fending two orthree miniflers at once to vifit for two or three months,and after that others by turns. The chief of thefe miniftersthat I was acquainted with, were, Mefirs. John Gregminifier at Neivtoun , Andrew Stuart at Donochadee,IVilliam Richardfon at Killileach, Andrew MacCormickat Macheraly, John Dryfdale at Portofery, Thomas Pee¬bles at Dundonald, Patrick Adair at Carncajile, ThomasHall at Loughlern, Robert Cunningham at Brodijland,Andrew Kemiedy at Temple-pat rick, Thomas Crawfurd atDunagore, David Battle at Balemanoch, John Douglajsat Braid, Samuel Ker at Bellemonie, Jeremiah Oqueinat Gabriel Cornwel, William Semple at Kilcoum,HughCunningham at Ray, IVilliam Moor era ft at Newt cun-Stuart. Afterwards fame more minillers were placed inthetHe North of Ireland, fo that in all they were above 6o,'and Khllinchie was well provided by Mr. Michael Bruce.As I returned I ftaid Tome few days to fee friends in Gal¬lo-way, amongft whom I had dwelt before. I was at acommunion at Stranrawcr, and another at Air, before Icame home. During my abode in Ireland, being occau-onally at Dublin-, the council there urged me to accept acharge in Dublin, and offered me 200 Lib.Jler. a year,but that was to me no temptation, feeing I was not loofedfrom Ancrum, and if I had been, I was refolved rather tofettle at Killinchie, among the Sects in the North, thanany where elfe.When in Summer 1660. the word came of the king’sbeing called home, I clearly forefaw there would enfue anoverturning of the whole work of reformation, and a trialto all who would adhere thereunto.1 In the year 1662.after the parliament and council had by proclamations ,ordered all minifters who had come in fmee the year 1649.and had not kept the 29//; of May as a holiday, either toI acknowledge the prelates or remove, I might well forefeea llorm was coming. At the lad communion we had atAncrum on the 12 of Oftober, and which was more frequentthan any before; after fermon on the Monday it pleafedthe Lord, I got my mouth opened in a reafonable largedifeourfe, * about the grounds and encouragements tofuffering, for the prefent controverfy of the kingdom ofChrill, in the appointing of the government of Ids houfc*and in a manner took my leave, altho’ I knew nothing ofwhat was then in hand, and followed fhortly after; buton the 20 of November, I got letters from fome friends inEdinburgh, that upon the 18 of that month, the councilhad ordained 12 or 16 minifters to be brought before them,whereof I was one; I went prefently to Edinburgh, andkept myfelf clofe for fome days, till I ftiould in a privateway fearch and get fome notice what they were mindedI t° do: for if they fhould only proceed to banifhrnent, asII they had the year before done to Mr. Macnuard and Mr.H Simpfon,* See the fubftance of that difeourfe fubjoined at the endl| of this life.C 58 )Simpfcn, I was refolvcd to appear, altho’ the citation hacfnot come to me; but if that I found that they were uponfuch a defign as againit Mr. Guthrie, that my life were indanger,^! was minded to lurk, and not to appear, feeingI was not cited nor apprehended. But finding their fentencesWould be only baniihment, and Mr. Trail having got thatfentence on the 9th of December, being called before thecouncil, I did on the 1 tth of December appear.I have in another paper fet down what pad when I wasbefore the council; * the fum of all came to this, Theyrequired me to fubferibe the oath which they called theoath of allegiance, wherein the king was to be acknow¬ledged fupreme governour over all perfons, and in all caufesboth civil and ecclefiaflic. This I know well was contrivedby them, in fo general, ambiguous and comprehenfive terms,that it mighf import the receding from the covenant forreformation, and the owning as lawful the bringing in ofthe Bifhops. And the Summer before, when fome miniftersof the Weft had given in their fenfe, that they wouldacknowledge the king fupreme civil governour, even inccclefiaflic matters, that fenfe was rejedted. Therefore Irefufed to take fome time to advife about the matter, asfome who had been before them had done. This I thoughtwould import that I was not fully clear, nor refolved in thematter, and would both render myfelf obnoxious to manytemptations, and offend and weaken many others: There¬fore I told, I needed not take time, feeing I was abundantly,clear, that I could not take that oath. This made themthe fharper againft me: They pronounced the fentence ofbanifhnlent. That within 48 hours, I fhould depart Edin¬burgh, and go to the NorthWAe. of Tay, and within twomonths depart out of all the king’s dominions. The while3 was in the outer-houfe before the council-houfe door,being removed till the council advifed about my fentence;there being prefent feveral of my friends, and a great manyother people, one lames Wallace came to me, who oncehad* See a copy of this paper in Wodronus Hiftory, VoLI, Page 144.( J9 )had been a profefibr, and thereafter had turned an anti no*mian, whofe renouncing of antinornianifm, I got fromMr. William Struthers of Edinburgh, and have yet by me,and who alfo turned again to the fame opinion and pfa&ices,and when I was in Killinchie in Ireland, he going throughthe country came thither, and on a Sabbath when we hadthe communion, I perceived him fitting at the table, andfent an elder to remove him becaufe of his fcandal: Thisman being one of the Macers, began a difeourfe to anotherMacer, railing on them that would not in all things giveobedience to the king’s commandment. After I had beenlong filent, alllfaidat lafi was. The king's commandmentrvas, faying, an fixer him not. This I perceived enragedhim the more.After two days, having taken leave of my friends i;iEdinburgh, I went to Leith, and thereafter upon petition,in regard of my age and infirmity, I obtained liberty to flayin Leith till I fhould remove. I petitioned but for a fewdays to go home to fee my wife and children, but it wasrefufed; I alfo petitioned once and again for an extrad ofmy fentence; but could not obtain it. During my flay inLeith, I was every day almofl through the whole dayvilited by fome friends out of Edinburgh, and feme otherparts of the country. A roll of thefe that vifited me, Ihave fet down in another paper apart. In that time throughcold, I took a pain and weaknefs in my loins, that forfundry days, I was not able to flep, or put on or off myown clothes, yet in a month’s time it departed. I hadtaken the like before in Summer 1661. in Edinburgh, thatkept me longer, fo as I was forced to be taken homein afed;tn, and for feveral Sabbaths was carried to the churchin a chair. I was many a time in Leith well refrefhed inconference and prayer with thofc that came to vifit me,and had the company of very many friends when I wentaboard.At kill in yJpril 1663. I went aboard old John plan'si Chip, and in eight days came to Rotterdam. When I arrivedthere, I found before me the reft of the banifhed minifters,I viz, Mdli'S. Robert Trail minider at Edinburgh, Joinsfl 2 Navy( 6o )Neiy at Ncvcmilhs, Robert Macnrard at Cletfgcrd', JaviesS huff on at Airtk, John Brown at JVav/phray, and JametGardiner at Saddle. Here I got frequent occafon ofpreaching in the 5c£>//congregation. In December 1663.my wife came to me and brought two of the children, theother five were left in Scotland. Hitherto I can fay duringmy abode in Rotterdam, I have been in my body as freeof pain and hcknefs, and in my mind as free of anxiety,as ever I have been all ijiy life during fo long time, andI make account that my lot is a great deal eafier, than thatof many that are at home.Now when I look back upon die whole, I find, that theLord hath given me a body not very ftrong, and yet notweak. I have fometimes continued reafonable long riding,both journey and poll without great wearying. I hardlyremember that I wearied in reading and Undying, altho’I have continued fome feven or eight hours without rifing,I have had my ftomach as well after reading a whole day,as after riding or any other exercife. Since I began topreach I hardly ever ufed any bodily recreation or fport,except walking, nor had I need of any other. There wasonly two recreations I was in danger to be taken with. Theone I had not the occaflon of but fome five or fix times,and that about 40 years ago. It was hunting on horfe-back,but I found it very bewitching.* The other was Tinging inconfort of mufick, wherein I had fome little fkill and tookgreat delight, but it is 36 years ago fince I ufed it. I hadtwice a hot fever, once in the fchool of Stirling, and againAnno 1622. in Lanerl. From 14 years of age till 40,I had feveral fits of the gravel, but hardly ever took it, butwhen fome outward evident caufe brought it on, fuch as,farting, watching, wetnefs and cold in my feet, or immo¬derate fludy. I was of a waterifh conflitution, and fome¬times troubled with the tooth-ach. I thought the ufe oftobacco helped me. Twice through cold, I had fuch apain in the lower part of my back, as I could hardly flir,once in Edinburgh, and again in Leith. I was alwaysfliort-fighted, and could not well difeern any thing afar off,but hitherto have found no need of fpcdacles, and can read*«(. 61.as long at fmall print, with as little light, and with as little' wearying as almoll any other. My inclination and difpo-fition was generally foft, amorous, averfe from debates,rather given to lazinefs than ralhnefs , and eafy to be, wrought upon. I cannot fay what Luther affirmed ofhimfelf concerning covetoufnefs, but I may fay I have beenlefs troubled with covetoufnefs and cares than many otherevils. I rather inclined to folitarinefs than company. I>vas much troubled with wandering of mind and idle thoughts.For outward things I never was rich, and I never was in: want, and I do not remember that ever I borrowed money,but once in Ireland y or 6 Lib. fieri, and got it ffiortlypaid. I choofed rather to want fundry things than to bein debt. I never put any thing to the fore of any maintain-ance 1 had, yea, if it had not been for what I got with my1 wife, and by the death of her brother, and fome others ofher friends, I could hardly have maintained my family, byany fHpend I had in all the three places I was in.As for my fpiritual condition, I cannot deny, butfometimes both in public and private, I have found theLord work upon, my heart, and give confitmations ofkindnefs and enj^tgements to his fervice; but I do notremember any particular time of converfion, or that I wasmuch cafl down or lifted up. I do remember one night in theDean of Kilmarnock, having been mod: of the day before incompany withfomc of the people of Stuartoun, who wereSunder rare and fad exenafes of mind, I lay down in fomcheavinefs that I never had experience of any Inch thing.That night in the midft of my deep, there came upon mefuch a terror of the wrath of God, that if it had increafed a>fmall degree higher, or continued a minute longer, I hadbeen in as dreadful a condition as ever living man was in,but it was inftantly removed, and I thought it was laid tome within my heart, See nxihat a fool thou art to defire thething thou couldfi not endure. And that which 1 thoughtflrange was, that neither the horror nor the cafe out of itwakened me out of my deep, but I dept till the morning,only the impreffion of it remained freffi with me for ajcafonable time thereafter. As concerning my gift of. *" preaching,,( *2 )preadiing, I never attained to any accuracy therein, andthrough lazinefs I did not much endeavour in I ufedordinarily to write feme few notes, and left the enlargementto die time of the delivery. I found that much lludyingdid not fo much help me in preaching, as the getting ofmy heart brought to a fpiritual difpolition ; yea, fometimes1 thought the hunger of the hearers helped me more thanmy own preparation. Many a time I found that whichwas fuggelled to me in the delivery, was more refrelhfulto myfelf, and edifying to the hearers, than what I hadpremeditated. I was often much deferred and cart downin preaching, and fometimes tolerably affifted. I neverpreached a fermon that I would be earned to fee again inwrit, but two. The one was at a communion on aMonday at the kirk of Shots, and the other on a Mondayafter a communion in Holyixiood. And both thefe times Ihad fpent the whole night before in conference and prayer,with fome chriftians, without any more than ordinary pre¬paration: otherwife, my gift was rather fuited to limplecommon people, than to learned judicious auditors. I couldhardly ever get my own fermons repeated, neither could Iget the fame fermoo preached twice, altli$’ to other hearers.I thought it became taftelefs both to myfelf and others. Ihave fometimes after fome years, preached on the fametext, but then I behoved to make ufe of new notes. Had1 in a right manner believed and taken pains, it had beenbetter for myfelf; but by a lazy trufting to afltlfance inthe mean time, I kept myfclf bare-handed all my days.I had a kind of coveting when I got leifure and opportunityto read much, and of different fubjects; and I was oftchallenged, that my way of reading was like fome menslull, after fuch a kind of play or recreation. I ufed to readmuch too fall, and fo was fomewhat pleafed in the time,but retained little. My memory was watcrifh and weak, yethad I improved it, I might have had better ufc of it; for afterthat I came from the college, I did with no great difficulty.attain to fome tolerable infight in the Hebrew, Chaldee,and fomewhat alfo of the Sy; lack: the Arabick I did effay,but the vaActfs of it made me it oyer. I got alfo fomuchC h >much of the French, the Italian, and after that of the lot*Dutch, that I could make ufe offundry of their books, andof the Spanijb and high Dutch, that I could make ufc oftheir bibles.It was once or twice laid on me by the general ajfemhly,to write the hiltory of the church of Scotland, Imce thei late reformation 1638. but befide my inability for fuch1 an undertaking, and my lazy difpolition, I could by no1 means procure the materials lit for fuch a work.Now fince I came to Holland, and fo had more leifure! than before, when I was deviling how to employ my time! to fome advantage; I remembred that I had fpent fomeof my former years in the fludy of the language,and had a great defire that fome means might be ufed,that the knowledge of the only true God might be yet moreplentifully had, both by minilfers and profelfors, out ofi the Original tent, and for that caufe, in as fmall a volumeIas might be, the original text of the Bible might be printedin the one column, and the feveral vulgar tranjlationrthereof, in the other column in feveral Bibles. Therefore|i when I thought what Latin tranjlation would be fit to joinIwith the original text, for a Latin Bible, I found that forthe old tcjlament, Junius's verfion varies much from theI native phrafe, and order of the Hebrew, and Pagr.insverfion as Montanus hath helped it, comes indeed nearthe Hebrew; but if printed and read alone, in many placesit yields almoft no fenfe; therefore I thought Pawnin'sown tranjlation, would be fitter to put in a column overagainli the Hebrew, only that it were needful, that infeveral places it might be amended out of later and moreI accurate tranflatiosis. For this caule much of my time inHolland I fpent, in comparing Pagnins verfion with theoriginal text, and with the later tranjlations, finch atMunjler's, the Tigurine, Junius, Diodale, the EngliJ/y,but efpecially the Dutch, which is the lateft and*moltaccurate tranjlation; being encouraged therein, and havingthe approbation of Voetius, EJjbnins, Nethemts and Leuf-\dcn; and fo through the whole old tejlansent wrote forneemendations on Pagniu'% tranjlation. I alfo took fbmetimeC (54 ) .time in going through the Englifh Bible, and wrote a fewdtverl'e readings, and fome explanatory notes, and fomereconeiliations of feemingly contrary places, to have beeninferred either among the marginal readings, or printedin two or three iheets in the end of the Bible : but thedeath of worthy y«/>« Graham provolt of Glafgooj, whowas ready to have borne moft of the charges of printing,Hopped both thefe enterprizes. Therefore upon a mo¬tion from doctor Leaf den, that a printer in Utrecht wouldprint a Latin 'Bible, having for the Old Tdfament, Pag-rtin's trdnjlation fo amended, I font doiftor Leufdert allthefe papers, but as yet have not heard of any thing done. INow, whether my conllant fitting at thefe Hudies; or jone time upon bufinefs walking long to and again through jthe town, without rendring urine, fo as at laft my urinewas bloody, or any other former infirmity, or age creeping (on may have been the occafion, I cannot determine; butfincethe year 1667. and thereafter, I have fuch a conftantpain in my bladder, efpecially when I walk, that I havebeen forced to take a houfe nearer the kirk. Yet neitherI nor fuch phyficians as I confult, Can be certain whetherit be a Hone, or only a carnofity in my bladder. Alfomy hand lhakes fo, that fometimes I can hardly writeany at all. Otherwife, I blefs the Lord, Hind hithertono great defotfl, either of body or mind.APPENDIX.SOME things were propofod to have been added to theforegoing life, as firll a difeourfe by Mr. Livingflon,on Monday iph October 1662. after the laft communiorfhe had at Ancrum, which he mentions with approbation:but the copy having only been taken from his mouth, bythe pen of an innacurate amanuenlis, it were injurious tohis worthy memory, to tranferibe the fame literally; andtherefore the Editor prefumes rather ."o give what he con¬ceives to be the ftibllance of the fame, jthan the copy itfolf.AfterAm? rdgriifying Ins flrong cxpeclations tliathe v.'ould hequickly removed from that people, and that lie might not getanother opportunity to lalute them,(which fell out accordingto his fears) he doth with’ a great deal of fervour andaffeilion tefiify his love to them, and his prayer that theLord who blefleth the feed that is fown in the ground,might bfefs his labours among them, and make the fruitthereof to appear when he w'as'gone.: Next he read to them P,/iatt-h\ x. 32. where Chrifi fays,IVtoJoeyer therefore Jball confefs v)e before wen, kirn ■•KillIcoAfefs- alfo before my Father eixfoo is in heave?;-, and there¬from had a fpeech to this effedf, Chrillianity is nothingdfe now than it was formerly. There are four pillars in it,to fpeak fo, A man believeth with the heart, and thatbringeth in another, viz. Righteoufntfs : A third, Manfconfcffeth with his mouth, and that brings in a fourth,which accompliflieth all, viz. Salvation. There are twomain ways whereby Satan prevails over poor creatures,fometimes he allures, and at other times he terrifies them.There are the lulls of the flelh, and the love of the w orld,and of honour; thefe engines hate a kind of enticing quality,and if they fail, he bends up t errors,tmd maketh them afraid*fKow,as an antidote againlt thefity onr Lord holds forth the■Words which we have read; and, becaufe mar y are readyto find out flrange ways to fare thtinfelves, their meansand their life, he propones it very'iltbrply, Whofoevcr deniethvie (fay's-he) before men, him •Kill 1 deny, &c, Now thisis the rttolf ticklilh point in all divinity, and the rock onwhich many beat out their brains; Satan way-lays peopleand emiccth them to deny Jesus Ghri-SiT, arid alas thathis infltterice rffo great in the time wherein we live; Somethink if it were Jesus Christ, and if it were a funda¬mental point they were called fo confefs, they would Handfor it with life and elhite ; but it is thought that Chriftiansrow Hand upon fome things, that are but fancies and nicefcrupulofities, and if there be any thing in -them, it is butafmall matter; and llialla man venture his life and all upona fmall thing? Well, if they be none of Christ’s final!things, letthemgo; but if they be one of his truths, willI ' ye1yc call that a fmall thing? His linall things are very gfeafthings. It might be proven unto you, that there neverwas a controveri'y fince the beginning of the world, eventouching the mod momentous truths, that was not ac¬counted a Imall thing, while it was an occalion of trial; andthat the thing which is now become the occalion of trial tomany, is no lefs than the free exercife of the kingly androyal office of Jesus Christ, in the difeipline and go¬vernment of his houle. But fome of you will fay, Thisis but a matter of difeipline and government, and why needwe make fo great ado about this ? For filencing fuch ob-jedions, let us ufe this comparifon; A gardner is appointedto keep h?s mailer’s garden, and after a while he calls downthe rails and hedges about the fame : His mailer challengeshim for doing fo; The other anfwcrs, I have not meddledwith your fruit-trees, your flowers nor your herbs, I haveonly call down the fences, and that is but a fmall thing.You polfibly reckon it fo, fays his mailer, but in doing diat Iiinall tiling, you open a gap for the bealts to come in andfpoil all. Our blelfod Lord Jesus was of another mind,when he faid. The faithful fervant is faithful in a little,and if it be a fmali thing, the fervant that is faithful in it,doth thereby teflify his love to his mailer, as much as ina greater matter. Take another fimilitude ; A tenant, inhis mailer’s abfency, doth,upon the intreaty of his neighbourtenant, give him a butt or half a ridge of ground: andwhen, at his mailer’s return, he is challenged for fufferingthe other to change his march-ilone, he anlwers. It was afmall thing. Sir, and ye have ground enough befides. Wouldhis mailer accept that anfwer off his hand ? Satan alwaysihapes a trial, and puts it to fuch a frame he can draw toa imall point, and fet it, as ye ufe to fay, in aciem novaculi,like a razor’s edge, that many think there is little between ,the two ; and yet the one fide is a denying of Ch ri st, ami 'tlie other a confeffing him. It may be you that are thepeople, think the minillers too peremptory in thefe days,and that wc might go on fome length, that ye and we mayabide together; it feems (f*y you) that we care little foryou, when we will not yield fomewhat. The Lord knowswhether( 67 )whether or not we have love to you, and that we could doany thing in our power for your welfare ; but we dare notexceed our inflrudlions. Take this further fimilitude; Acertain man gets his mafter’s flock to keep, and gets in-! ftrudtions to abide by his flock, and not to acknowledge any| judicature beyond his border. Sometime after this, he isfummoned to a foreign court, with certification, if he re-fufed to go, they would- drive away the flock and fpoil hismaffer’s goods. Now, fays the man, I am in a flrait, Iflgo,I will betray my mafter’s liberty;aiid if I go not, the flockwill be abufed: but I remember my mafter gave me affur-ance, that his flock fhall lack nothing, and fliall get nohurt. Notwithftanding, they will have the fervant to go,and would perfuade him that it were better to acknowledgean unlawful court, and unlawful judges, than expofe hismafter’s flock to hazard: Nay, faith he, my mafter hathi given me affurancc, that let his flock be driven and poindedas they will, and let them ftand, as they ufc to fay, tilltheir chafts fall, yet they fliall never die for want, and: therefore I will let them ftand to their hazard, rather thanbetray my truft^ But fay fome, Why may ye not infuch a particular acknowledge the magiftrate ? For anfwerto this, take another fimilitude; An ambaiTador is fent fromi one State to another upon thefe terms: You ihall in yournegociations carry yourfelf uprightly, according to theinftruiflions given you. The prince to whom he is fenta comes to propone to the ambaffador, that he fhall acknow-ijledge an ecclefiaftic officer unknown to him ; The ambafla-|dor anfwcrs, YV ith your liberty, I muft firft advife with myflhnftructions, and having done fo, he fays, I cannot findfuch an office in all my inftrutfions; I find in'the 20thof I\lattherw, that the princes of the Gentiles erercife domi-ii nion, but it mujl not be fo among church-officers, and *therefore I dare not go beyond that. To kings and princes: we Hull give their due, and we acknowledge they have apower to rule about ecclefiaftical things, but then it is not1 fpiritual power; for fuch a power is only competent toJE su s Chri st. Would any prince take it well if anotherffioula fay to him, Ye have fuch and fuch officers in yourI 2 * houfe,c 68 >houfc, but I will have certain other officers ?. Or, would themailer of a private family take it well, if another ffiouldcome and appoint him lefvants ? Some think fuch an officera ftrengthening of the civil powers greatly, but truly do¬minion in church-men hath been the greatcll enemy that evercivil powers had; and if ye will go upon thefc terms, yecannot avoid a pope. But you will perhaps fay. May notminifters be hlent ?, What need have they to endanger theirmirdlry, their family, and every thing elfe, by {peakingthings that they had better forbear ? Can they not holdthernlelves fitished with preaching faith and repentance?'in fo far, my friends, you fay well; Faith and Repentanceare very comprehenfve duties ; and I cohfefs I never. deJlighted to hear a man, the moll part of whofe preaching iswhat they call, on the public, and meddling with State-matters : But there are times and feafons wherein a man’sffiler.ee may bring a curfe upon his head; As fuppofe thereis a befieged city, and a watchman with a guard let at theVv ell-port, with a commiffion to found the trumpet wheneverhe fees any danger; according as it is in Nehcmiah iv, andrintheiii. and xxxiii. chapters of-Eztd/V/. Well, he feeththe enemy coming on; but, inltead of holding by his in-flrudlions, he marches all his force to the Eall-port, whichis the far llronger, and where there is no imminent danger;there he Hands where there is none to oppofe him, and inthe mean time, the llation he was placed in, is deferted,and the enemy comes in as a flood : Juft lo is it with theman who will preach only againlt popery, and meddle withno other controvcrfies; and it may be if popery come along,as indeed we have reafpn to believe it will be the next trial,then he will preach you good moral doctrine, flow, Canthe man who believes fo, be accounted Faithful ? or can helook for a glad fight of Jesus Chri st on his death-bed?When his Mailer {hail lay, Ha Sir, I know you wellenough, ye did fpcak indeed but never in a mifter; ye did{peak, as they uic to fay, when none fpeired at you, yewere flout then; but when my caufe came in hand, andwhen ye ought to have borne up my banne r, ye would not;Therefore get you gene,” And having foiaid, be doledwith prayer.What( 69 )WnATbefel Mr. Livingjion after this, is recorded by'himfelf. It was intended to have given a copy of hisexamination before the Privy-council, and of his letters tohis parilhioners; but thefe are already in print: and whathath difpofed us the rather to omit thefe, is, to make wayfor the memorable characters given by Mr. Living Hon ofthe eminent miniilers and profdfors of his time, which cameto hand after propofing the other. And therefore it fhallonly be further obferved here. That this eminent miniflcrdied at Rotterdam, Augujl 9th, 1672. Some of his laftwords were, “ Carry my commendations to Jr. su s Christ,till I come there myfelf.” After a paufe, he added, “ I diein the faith That the truths of God which he hath helped! the Church of Scotland to own, lit all be owned by himas truths, fo long as fun and moon endure : and thatIndependency, though there be good men and well-meaningprofeffors of that way, will be found more to the prejudiceof the work of God than many are aware of, for theycvanifh into vain opinions. I have had my own faults asother men, but he made me always abhor fliows. I have Iknow given offence to many, through my flacknefs andp negligence, but I forgive and defire to be forgiven. I1 cannot fay much of great fervices, yet if ever my heart wasI lifted up, it was in preaching Jr,su s Chris t.” After aIjj paufe, for he was not able to fpeak much at a time, he| faid, “ I would not have people to forecafl the worft, butI there is a dark cloud above the Reformed churches, whichI prognofticates aflorm coming.” His wife fearing what (liortlyX1 followed, defired him to take leave of his friends; “ I dare1 not,” replied he, with an affectionate tendernefs, “ butitisI Jike our parting will only be for a fhort time.” And then heI flept in the Lord.Them that Jleep in Jefus ’veill Cod hr mg with him.^ V' '? .ei . ■ ' v- ■ . . i 'I, . . 1 v.:7 ; . 'i. ;• - 1 -I- - - '* rL - - .' I :- r‘ ' s'r': ' rj; !: ''[■yf . ; jni: j ■ •ji juJ ^Ju'] jai  hr, vim -u :7 3ti3 ..<-1.' . ■ V ...1 v ' /- : ■ fit■_ y 1 J . j ^ " ' '' , ’’J^ • ' 'i l' ■ *  '** - T*j: jV/gi)'*'- ‘»f. . :i, d L -.‘id H-Iiui: -j'1' ’ !>•) n£. - 0 ' ‘a v[.-jy; .. c.. d.:nl■ : ,) • : !;' . '/ ' ?■ 2t rit 'J2 .ff it-.> hd-: .-t-