THEBroom of Cowden-knows.TO WHICH ARB ADDED,The DISAPPOINTED SAILOR* f1CRUEL NELL.; The AULD MAN’S MARE’S DEAD.?R IN TED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,6ALTMARKET, i8oi.The BROOM of COWDEN-KNOWS.r¥nilraugli Liddefdale lately I went,A and ftiufmg on did pafs,I heard a maid was difcontent,(he figh’d, and faid, alas IAll maids that e'er deceived were,bear part of this my woes ;For once l was a bonny lafs,when I milk’d my daddy’s ewes.O the broom, the bonny bonny broom, fthe broom of Cowdcn-knows,Fain I wad be in the fouth country,to milk my daddy's ewes.My love into the field did come,wheii my daddy was frae hame }Sug’red words he gave me there,prais’d me for fuch a one }Jlis bonny breath and lips fo foft,and his alluring eye, !And tempting tongue that woo'd me oft,now forces me %<ry. All maids, &c.He joy’d me with his pretty chat,fo well difeourfe could he,Talking of this thing, and of that,which greatly liked me.I was fo taken with his fpeech,and with his comely making ;.He ufed all the means could be,t'enebant me with his fpeaking. All, &c iV( DIn Danby-fordl I wts born,my beauty did excel, ,My parents dearly loved me,till my belly begm ro fwell.I might have been a princefs* peer,when l came o’er the knows,'Till the fiiepherd’s boy beguiled hie,milking my daddy’s ewes. 'Allmaids,. &c.When c^lce I felt my belly fwell,ho longer might I bide ;My mother put me out cf doors,and bang'd me back and fide.Then did i range the world fo wide,wand’ring among the knows,Curfing the boy who helped me,to fold my daddy’s ewe?. All maids, &c.Who would have thought a boy fo^young,wou’d us’d a maiden fo,; For to allure her with his tongue,and then from her to go.Which ha;h, alas! pioeur’d my woe,to credit his fair fhews ;Which now too late, repent I dothe milking of the ewes, All maids, &c._ jt* - • • — ’ ', All maidens fair, then have a care,when you a milking go jI' Truft not to young men’s tempting tongues,/that would deceive you fo ;l For you fiiall find them prove unkind,and glory in yOar woes j< 4 >For the fhephercFs boy beguiled me,folding my daddy’s ewes. All maids, &c.If you your virgin honours keep,efteeming of them dear;You need not then to wail and weep*or your parents’ anger fear.As l have faid, of them bewarewould glory in y< ur woes ;You then may ling with merry ch^,milking your daddy’s ewes. ^11 maids, &c»A young man hearing her complain,did pity this her ca(e,Saying to her, Sweet beauteous faint,l grieve fo fair a faceShould forrow fuch, then my fweeting,to cafe thee of thy woes,1*11 go with thee to the fouth country,to milk thy daddy’s ewes. All maids, Sec,Then nv>deftly (he did reply, ' ‘might I fo happy be.Of you to find a hufband kind,and for to marry me ;Then to you, I will during life,continue conftant fiill;And be a t&ue obedient wife,obferving a* your will. All maids, &c«leander like, l will remain(fill conftant to thee ever,As Pyramus or Troilustill death our lives (hall fever.i ( J )uet me be hated evermore,of all men that me knows,f falfe to thee, fweetheart, I be,milking thy daddy’s ewes. All maids, &c.Thus with a gentle foft embrace,he took her in his arms,And with a feifs, he fmiling faid.I’ll thield thee from all harms ;: ,.Vnd inftantly I'll marry thee,to keep thee from all woes;i And go with thee to the fouth country,to milk thy daddy’s ewesiO the broom, the bonny bonny broom,the broom of Cowden-knows,Fain.wad i be in the fouth country,to milk my daddy's ewes.'THE DlbAPPOlN FtD BAILOR.A R L Y one morning in the Spring, l went on board to ferve the King^,caving my deardl dear behind,''ho often told me her heart was mine.I often took her in mine arms,ithought fhc had a thoufand charms.With vows, and oaths, and kiffes tweet.We’re to be raarry’d next time we meet.While I was failing on the fea,il. found an opportunityk ?or to fend letters to my dear,u 3ut not one word could from her hear.( e >Wiicii we cairfe near Carthagena to\Where cannoij balls Hew up and downWbilft in the nridft of danger there,My thoughts were on my dearelt dear,When I arriv'd on the Britilh fliore,I went to fee her 1 did adore jHer father he made this reply,My daughter doles' your love deny.-0 then he a&'d me what I mean,Or if I lov’d his daughter Jean?She's marry’d now, Sir, for her life,I pray young man feek another wife.1 curs’d the gold and the filver too,4nd ah taife women that were not true;Who firlt make vows and them do break.And break their vows for riches fake.I wcu’d rather be on yonder fhore,Where thundring cannons loudly roar jI wculd rather be where bullets fly,Than in iaife women’s company.So I'll bid adieu to all woman-kind,I'll fail'the ocean round and round jI’ll fail the fra until 1 die,I’ll cut the waves that fun mountains high,,.^Now from a window that was nigh,T! e Lady fhe made this reply,1 pray let reafon now take place.Before you do our fex ciifgrace.Now hold your tongue you cruel mao,For if you fent letters I never got one,Ilf the fault be great, love, *tis not mine,So don't fpes*1'- iotiard of poor woman-kind*-r i ' ^ ~r fTWBjl m—!■—BUT I I ^ ' ' 'C K U EL NELLY,AH! grieve with me, for 1 have loft,What to my foul is dear jIn meagre black defpair l*m toft,I And in my hot love paffion croft,I now a ghoft appear.I Now o’er the mead where flowers grow,And field a fragrant fmell, 7!| Alone I penfiVe wand?ring go,1 And look a melancholy woe,And figh for cruel Nell,i Her beauteous face, her iv’ry neck,'Her moulding bofom round,;l Raife fuch defire in me, e-feck}II I fear at laft my heart will break.Behold iii tears I’m drown’d.! But then her ihape ’tis fuch a one,That I could almoft fpan,But oh 1 flic’s gone, and l*m undone 1| And oh 1 alas 1 fure as a gun,I am a dying man,i -AL 1 what a taper leg has fhc,And ah 1 her fnowy thighs;And garter’d too above the knee,fTis true (if you’ll but believe me)-Or dfe l tell a lye.( 8 )Now fhc may give another fwaitt.Her wifh*d for maiden-head ;And grieve for me (ah! haplefs fwain)When deep in grave my head is lain—What's that when I am dead ?The AULD MAN'S MARE'S DEAD*THE auld man’s marc's dead.The puire-man's mare's dead.The auld man's mare's dead,A mile aboon Dundee.She had the hooks they ca'd the crooks.The jaw pilh and the wanton looks:Oh every lug flic had the brooks,And the hooks aboon her eye.Chor. And the auld man's mare's, cte.She was cut-luggit, panch-lipit,Steel-wamed, ilanchel-fitit,Chanler-chaftet, and lang-neckit,And yet the bruit did die. • And, etc.When firft my matter came to town,He tied me to a ftanchel round,He took a chappin to himfcl.But ne'er a drap gae me.€hor. And the auld man’s mare's dead.The puire man's marc’s.dead £The pdats and turs and a's to lead,And yet the brute did die.Printed by J.andM. Robertfon,Saltmarket, 1802-