THEGREAT DUTYG FConfessing Christ before Men, statedand recommended.ASERMON,PREACHED AT STIRLING,Monday, 29th July, 1805.BY SAMUEL GILFILLAN,MINISTER OF THE GOSPEL, COMRIE.I am net ashamed of ihe Gospel of Christ.Paul.’KILMARNOCK :minted BY H. CRAWFORD.f * OF SCOTU iMatth. x. 33.Whosoever therefsre shall confess me leforc nun, him 'WMI confess also before my Father, which is in heaven.nr , IJ. HESE words are part of that moving addrewhich Jesus delivered to the twelve apostles, wht ,they were about to enter on their work. As 1knew the end Irom the beginning, he foresaw athe opposition they would meet with in the faithfr udischarge of theiroffice, and encoaragesthem to bol .ness, faithfulness, and perseverance ~in their dutby arguments and motives which are very forciband approptiate. In this verse he recommends ,them, and, after them, to all his servants and fc .lowers in every age, a public and consistent profesion of his name and religion b fore men, in tplaces, and in all the variety of their circumstance ;and urges their duty by a promise infinitely affe ,iting. Him will I elso confess before my Father whichin heaven. To make a profession of Christ, and .confess him before men, are phrases, we apprehennearly of the same meaning; the words are the sarin the original, and if there is any difference, it .probably this. Confession refers to the union of mny persons in the duty, and Profession to the pubi .nature of it; Christ witnessed a good professi rbefore Pontius Pilate,— With the mouth confessionmade unto salvation;—in both these sentences, tsense is almost the same, and justifies our use .both words indifferently in the following discour:.We shall therefore proceed in the subsequent fhI. Mah; some Observations about the Duly recon-mended in these words, of Confessing Christ before men,II Consider the force of the motive, Him will I con¬fess before my Father in heaven.III. Make a few Inferences.HEAD I.1. We observe, that it is the bounden duty* ofChristians to confess Christ before men, or theworld. T.Ve words of our text refer to a period,when a confession of Christ exposed hris followers tol reproach, to persecution, and to death; but evenJ then this was a necessary duty: Though Christ’siji .name was not then generally known, though his! religion was in opposition to all other religions, andthough the powers of the world were leagued againstthe Church, yet it was still a duty to hold fast his( name, (Rev. ii. 13.) and not to deny his faith.IBut the text refers also to a time when under the‘name of Christ men have forsaken him ; when histruths are denied, his cause neglected, his lawsbroken, and when the true spirit of Christianity has•j evaporated : Then it is our duty to confess him be-! fore men, to appear On his side, to range under hisv| banner, and, at all hazards, to stand with him uponthe mount Zion, having his Father’s name writtenon our foreheads, Rev. xiv. 1. If we are subjectsi of the moral government of God, we are bound by-I his law, “ to know and acknowledge him to be thaonly true God, and our God, and to worship andglorify him accordingly.” The very constitution;< of the Church, and the enjoyment of her ordinances,slays every Christian under an obligation to confessChrist before men, and not to be ashamed ol him,(V ’r of any of his words, before an evil and adul¬terous generation. Tire names given to Christiansin Scripture, imply an obligation to make a publicprofession of his name: They are Ins friends, chil-4dien, servants, followers, bride or spouse ; and sure¬ly all these names indicate that none should beashamed of that glorious person to whom they arerelated, and from whom their eternal happinessproceeds. Moreover, they are the light of theworld, they^are cities set on an bill that cannot behid, and should shine, of consequence, in the midst Pof the world, holding forth the word of life, by the pbeauties of a scriptural profession and a holy' con- •versation. He that hath a friend must shew him¬self friendly ; and Christ’s name must perish fromthe world, which Is impossible, if there is not a suc¬cession of witnesses in the church, to appear on hisside : His name shall endure far ever, and he continuedas long as the sun. Men shall be llest in him ; and allnations shall call him blessed. Happy are we, if weare honoured to confess that divine person beforemen, and, in any degree, to contribute our endea¬vour to make his name to endure for ever! Thiswill be the greatest public honour God can bestowon us in this world, and no mean evidence that weare to enjoy the glories of the next! No personever regretted in his dying moments, or at the su¬preme tribunal, that he had made a public profes¬sion of Christ before men.2. Our confession of Christ is not to originate infalse or improper motives: As a man thinketb in hisheart, so is hey If our eye is not single, our wholebodies cannot be full of light. A profession, how¬ever splendid, if it be hypocritical, is an abomina- 1tion in the sight of God. We are not to confessChrist before men from a spit it of contradiction toothers: We are bound to oppose all who opposethe truth as k is in Christ; but our contendings arenot to flow from resentment at men’s persons, nCTr ta delight in their errors and failings : Nor are weto oppose any system because professed by menwhom we have been accustomed to despise, or be- '5cause patronised by names whose reputation weenvy. We should rejoice at all that is good inevery denomination ol Christians, and bewail whatis bad, and testify against them with moderationand candour. They who separate themselves fromany society, (Jude 19.) for the sake of separation,are sensual, not having the Spirit : They nvent out fromus, (says John, 1st Epist. ii. 19.) because they lucrenot of us ; and, no doubt, were determined to terma party : for if they had been of us, they 'would, no doubt,have continued iviih us. Neither are we to confessChrist from ostentation, cr love ot applause. Toborrow Christ’s name, to aggrandize or set off ourown, is a forgery of the worst kind, and infinitelydishonouring to Christ and his religion. We areto profess him when it exposes us to the loss ofevery thing, and even of cur good name, and con¬sequently cannot, without the greatest iniquity,wear his name merely to take away our reproach.We are to be willing, like John Baptist, to decrease,or grow little, if Christ increase in the world, andrejoice the work is done, though we had no handin it. To follow Christ for loaves and fishes, or fortemporal' rewards, in religion, is a prosti u'.ion ofthe best of things to the worst of purposes ; this isloving him for his clothes, and not for hi ; dividebeamy. This is a meritorious regard, or the loveof an harlot, but not of a diaste and loving spouse.When worldly emoluments are attached to a pro¬fession of Christ before men, multitudes appear onhis side, and seem zealously affected to himself andhis truths; but when persecution arises because ofthe word, whep the tide turns in opposition to ge¬nuine Christianity, many are offended, go back, andwalk no more with Jesus, John vi. There are stillmany in the church, whose god is their belly, whoseglory ir their shame, and who mind earthly thing* ; whomeasure their diligence by their ecnolume * , or by6the applause of men, and are not actuated by the j'spirit of religion.3. That ive are to confess Christ before men, be- icause we believe in his person, and love his truth, LWith tht heart man believelb unto righteousness, and <with kthe mouth confession is made unto salvation, Rom. x. 9. I,11. Confessing Christ with the mouth, while we ]bdo not believe in him for salvation, is but mocking 'khim. Peter made a glorious profession of Christ, j(Matth. xvi. 16. 18 ) but it sprung from faith inhis person, and a revelation of his glory made to hismind, which flesh and blood could not effect. Inlike manner the Ethiopian eunuch (Acts viii. 37.)made a confession of his faith in the Son of God,as soon as he believed in him, and had a spiritualperception of his divinity and excellence. Personscannot confess Christ till they know and love him:Without faith it is impossible to please God in any thing ;and, IVhat is net offaith, is sin. When there is nofaith in the heart, a confession of Christ will be buta painted gewgaw or vanity, which will perish at thevery presence of temptation and affliction for th.esake of the gospel. Witliout faith, we cannot havea single aim at the glory of God in our religiousconfession, and wanting this, every thing is hypo¬critical and insincere; having no faith in Chiist, ;we cannot be stedfast, uniform, nor consistent in aprofession of his name and truth : Faith is the prin¬ciple of all stability in religion, By faith -we stand.If we do not believe the truths we contend for, weshall soon be terrified, or decoyed out of our prin¬ciples : We cannot continue in the Father and theSon, (1 John ii 21.) except that which we haveheard from the beginning remain in us, as to itspractical and sanctifying influence: It is easy toseduce us, if we have not an unction from the holyOne. If our own salvation for eternity be not em¬barked tin the truth of the gospel, it will be no dif-7ticult matter to carry us about with every wind ofdoctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness,•whereby they lie in wait to deceive. Our strife, in thisview of die case, will be that of slaves or mercena¬ries, who have nothing to lose or gain, but fight asthey are hired, and not the manly struggles of pa¬triots and free men for their hearths and altars, fortheir civil and religious liberties. When we believein Christ, every truth of his word will be preciousto us, from its connection with his person, and fromits connection with the other branches of the sys¬tem ; this will induce us to contend, as in an agonyfor the fault, the whole faith, once, and but once,delivered to the saints. Love to the truth' also, isa strong reason for a full and c nsisient confessionof Christ before men. Love is a most powerfulprinciple of action, and especially when it operatesabout the great things of God. He,who, fromlove of the truth, buys it, shall not exchange it forall the gold of Peru, and all the diamonds of Indos-tan. Love to the truth animated the martyrs and.confessors of Christ, in all ages, and in all theirsufferings : They loved not their lives unto the death,because they loved the truth. Let us go and dolikewise, at least in affection and resolution. Truthis as precious as ever, and the duty of contendingfor it will never grow out of date while the worldstands.4f. It is our duty to confess, before men, thewhole truth of the gospel, or the whole of Christ’sname, as revealed in the scripture. All the doc¬trines exhibited in the word, are to be the matter ofour confession ; and surely we ought not to beashamed of what infinite wisdom hath revealed.No part of the scripture is made known in vain,but deserves to be believad with our hearts, anddefended with our blood, and must not be lost byignorance or error. The church is the pillar and8ground of truth ? not as supporting it, hut, as theancient pillars in the earlier perods of the Grecianhistory, preserved the laws and edicts from corrup¬tion and oblivion, and exposed to public view; sothe church of Christ reflects his glory and exhibitshis truth to the world, in her worship, her testimo¬ny, and her life, The enemies of truth may assert,that some truths are trivial and circumstantial, andmay not enter into the testimony of the church ;but such an assertion is made with an ill grace bythe friends of God and truth. Who gave us licenceto make distinction, and how far it may be carried ?Christ came into the world to bear witness ^Johnxviii. 37.) to the truth, to ail the truth ; and hereinhe was an example to us, that we should follow hissteps. The church herself, and in' her representa¬tives, are to observe, and cause to be observed andkepr, all the laws of Christ’s kingdom, a perfectsystem, containing all that Christ enjoins, for faithand obedience: these are to be enforced, not withfines or civil pains, but with the salutary disciplineof his house, f or the destruction of the flesh, that is,the corruptions of die individual, or of the society.If any of these laws fall into disuse, or are neglec¬ted, it is the duty of the church to revive and ob¬serve them. We are bound to “ receive and observe,and keep pure and entire, all such religious worshipand ordinances as God hath appointed in his word.”We are not left at liberty to neglect, nor invent anything in the woiship of God ; either way he is dis¬honoured, and the means of our fellowship with himare destroyed. Superstition and will-worship mustbe resisted as evils that will sooner or later wastethe church and banish his gracious presence fromher: God ivill not give his gltry to another, nor his■praise to graven images Christ, as King in Zion,hath left a form of government in his church, andthis form we are to preserve as much as any other9part of divine truth- It is in no small degree un¬worthy of the wisdom and care of the Head of thechurch, to assert, That he hath left no form bywhich she is to be governed, or that that form is tobe modelled according to civil policy, or to be am¬bulatory and framed by the relative situation of thetimes: This form of government, vve believe, isPresbyterial, and consists chiefly in the parity of herministers, and subordination of her courts: The sa¬cred rights of this society we are to hold fast—suchas, her right to elect her own officers, to call herown meetings, appoint her own fasts, and exerciseher own discipline, independemiy of the state. Mybrethren, let none of these things appear indifferentto us, as they do to this frivolous and temporizinggeneration. They are not indifferent to Christ, andhe commands us to confess them before men forhis glory. The slothful, the worldly-minded, andthe cowardly may overlook, and like Gallio, carefor none of these things, but they are of great im¬portance to the friends of Jesus. It is not a matterof Indifference to them, whether Christ’s name liveor die in the world, whether truth sink or swim.God has a cause on earth, in which his declarativeglory is deeply concerned, and the maintenance ofthat cause is the peculi ir charge ot his providence,and ought not to be of small value in our eyes. Asour public profession involves in it a great part ofour duty to God and the church in our generation,we should be careful to join that society which inits constitution and administration approaches near¬est the rule of the woid. We should not be asham¬ed to resist that torrent of error and profanenessthat deluges our country, and which may soon ac¬celerate our ruin. When truth ^lls In our streets,when covenant engagements are sported with, it isa dreadful symptom that the Lord cometh opt ofhis place, to punish the inhabitants of the woyld for10tljtir iniquity. When the Rcmnns ceased to pre- »serve public faith pledged in their treaties, theirdecline and fall hastened apace; and surely thesenations that break God’s covenant, and think to bedelivered, are not on the read to-long and sanctifiedprosperity., '5. We are to confess Christ before men in all the | ■variety of our circumstances, in all companies, .and in our whole intercourse with the world, we areto confess Christ. It is very unbecoming the pru¬dence of Chn’st’s friends to cast pearls beibre swine,•or to make their good to be evil spoken of, by de- itailing their experience, or introducing' religious !subjects in.mixed companies, when there is no oc-caoion lop it: This conduct is unworthy of seriousminds, and greatly exposes religion to contempt fand ridicule: But we are never to deny Christ in jany company. Perhaps Peter, in the high priest’shall, might have remained silent without sin, butwhen interrogated, whether he knew Christ, to de¬ny him with cursing and swearing, was a sin ofsingular enormity : IVe can do nothing against thetruth, says Paul, but for the -truth. We are, or oughtto be, the salt of the earth, and the light of theworld; and should never give occasion to any ofthe enemies of God to blaspheme that worthy nameby which we are called Daniel was vulnerable in ino side, as his accusers imagined, but concerningthe law of his God, (Dan vi .5 ) and it were goodfor many~ of us, if the world could find no otherfault in us. It' we stood foremost in every thinglovely and of good report, and had our conversationas it becomelh the gospel of Christ, we should ex¬ceedingly recommend religion. Did the influenceof religion descend with us into all our intercoursewith the world and into all the" walks of life, theworld would believe that we served a holy master,and shewed our faith by our works. When mena idestroy with their lives what they attempt to build< with their testimony, or profession, or with theirlips, they act a most inconsistent part: He is a goodman, heathens wont to say, but he is a Christian: a| noble testimony to Christianity !! We should confess Christ in our families: Godgave us families, and we ought to walk with a per-l; feet heait in our houses at heme. It is a shameful; denial of the Son of God, when we do not shewforth in our families liis loving kindness every morn¬ing, and his faithfulness every night. When we donot, by family-worship, instruction and government,j1 consecrate our houses to God, as Bethels, t» his1 service- If God be the founder of the family, if! domestic deliverances, mercies, and trials, come1 from Go'd ? where is his honour and fear? Howungrateful to forget, or conceal, the goodness ofsuch a gracious Father! If children and servants,and visiters in a family, never hear the worship of^ God, how is Christ confessed under that roof? Theworst of the heathen shall be witnesses against thesefamilies, falsely called Christians, in the day of theLord.We ought especially to confess Christ before menafter solemn occasions- When we have been nearChrist in privileges and enjoyment, it is natural tofr suppose that we have imbibed a portion of his Spiiit,and are resolved to glorify him in the woild by, obedience to his laws. We are especially to re¬member the day we stood before the Loid in Ho-rcb, when we avouched him as our God, and pro¬mised to be his people. We are to hear what Godsaith to Ids people, and that he spoke peace, and| we should not turn again to folly. The eyes of theworld are fastened upon us after these occasions,and we should lualL circumspectly, net as fools, but aswise; knowledge should be taken of us, that tue havebeen <with Jesus. We should carry about with us dailythe dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus i:may be manifested in our mortal bodies. We are to con- (!fess him before men in all places of the world : not conly in the presence of ministers and friends, with iwhom we are acquainted, but in every place where fProvidence htes our habitation, among strangers tand enemies; when no friend is present to applaud pus, and no worldly interest is to be promoted. No pichange of place can alter the vows of God.—When l!.David was in the land of the Philistines, he feared ithe God of Israel; he did not abandon himself to Ijimpiety, though he was unknown. Thy vows are ■upon me, (Psalm Ivi.) says he, in the true spirit of <religion. I will render praises to thee! How many [men once bore Christ’s name, but on changing their ;abode, became bold in committing sin, and threw ithemselves into the thickest of the throng of theworkers of iniquity ! Christ should be confessed byus in an hour of trial: There is somewhat very af¬fecting isi what the high priest said to Jesus, (Johnxviii. 19 )'//e ashed him of his disciples ; as if he hadsaid, Where are all thy professea friends now in thetime of thy afflictions ! We are to follow Christthrough good and bad report, and should be pre¬pared to resist unto blood striving against sin. Weare to take up his cross daily, and follow him what- ■ever it cost us. When others deny him, or are ^ashamed of hun and of his words, we should con- |fess him before men. In the face of all dangers |and death, in its most hideous forms, we should |stand unintimidated, and say as the martyr of old, |who being threatened and flattered to abandon t;Christ, replied to the confusion of his persecutors, 1I DID NOT COME HITHSR TO Dt.NY CHRIST ! If WCsuffer with Christ, we will reign with him ; if wedeny him he will deny us ; He thatfndeih his lifeshall lose it, and he that loseth his life for my sake shallfind it. In such a glorious cause it is honourable13to be single, as Athanasius in former times, and,Abdiel in Milton, faithful among the faithless, un¬moved, unshaken, unseduced, not influenced bynumber nor example to swerve from truth, norchange his constant mind; and in this cause no¬thing is too good, or too great to be lost. In short.We are to confess Christ before men in our death.The death of a saint is a most instructive event,and it is chiefly instructive as it is the close of a holylife, and a recommendation of religion to survivers.Then men generally speak the words of truth and so¬berness ; and it is a happy circumstance in our death,when we can confess that Christ is a good master,that his ways are ways of pleasantness, and all hispaths are peace. Paul, in view of eternity, felt theforce of true religion on his mind: He knew inwhom he had believed ; was certa n that there wrasa crown of righteousness laid up for him. In likemanner Stephen died confessing his faith in Christ,and committing his soul into his hand as the God oftruth who had redeemed him : Amidst the tumult. of his murderers, and the pangs of such a death, heexhibited a serenity not to be disturbed, and a tes¬timony to the truth of Christianity.6. We are bound to confess Christ before menconstantly, and never to draw back on any accountWhatever. Not only are vre to confess Christ whenit is the fashion of the times, or when it suits ourinclinations and interests, but constantly and thro’our whole lives. We are not to be allured withpromises, nor terrified with threatenings, to aposta¬tize from our blessed Master. Against all forceand fraud we are to harden our hearts, and to lore-go every thing rather than betray Christ, or deliverup our sacred trust into the hands of his enemies;the backslider in heart, and the apostate in principle,are fearful characters. Having opened our mouthsto the Lord, and lifted our hands to the most14high God, the possessor of heaven and earth, wecannot go*back without the most dreadful impiety.All that belongs to Christ we have among ourhands, and should contend earnestly for it, and bestcdjast and immoveable, always abounding in the workof the Lord. The end of a thing is better, saith So¬lomon, than the beginning of a thing, (Eccl. vii. 8.)and beyond controversy, the end of our religiousprofession must be better than the beginning of it.The scriptures commonly commend the issues andnot the beginnings of things: “ Finis scd non mitiaLaudantur Jerome.” //r that endurtth to the end shallhe saved.—Te are they <who have roniinued with me inmy temptations—If any man draw bach, my soul shallhave no pleasure in him.—So run that ye may obtain.Some begin in the Spirit, but end in the flesh. Thesame reasons that induced us to begin a religiousprofession still remain: Christ still deserves to beconfessed before men : He is the same yesterday, to-day,and far ever ; without variableness and shadow of turn*ing. The truth of the gospel suffers nothing by thelapse of time, or the changes of men : The gospelIs an everlasting gospel, and is always worthy ofbeing contended for. It is still a high honour to beinstrumental in the hands of Providence in the pro¬tection and diffusion of divine truth in the world.The obligations of the moral law are perpetual, andwe are bound by these, to do all the good we can,in our stations, and in our day, for the honour ofGod, and the salvation of men. Souls are stillprecious things, and bow can these be saved, if theyremain ignorant of Christ and of the gospel ? Theencouragements of the word to perseverance, andthe rewards of eternity to all that overcome, are stillthe same ; and why should we cease to confess sucha gracious master ; The persons who have desertedJesus, from mercenary motives, have, in all ages,been held infamous and contemptible; and, instead15of enjoying, undisturbed, the blessings of time in agreater degree, as perhaps they expected, they havebeen ultimately the peculiar objects of the frowns ofj Providence. A Sharp in the church, and a Lau-J derdale in the state, are fearful instances ni the truthof this assertion.—On the contrary, thosg who havet left all, and followed Jesus, have quitted with everything, bjit truth and a good conscience, have re-i ceived a hundred fold, even in this life ; themselvesand families have been the peculiar charge of God,and they never wanted. The non conformists inEngland, and the Presbyterians in Scotland, in theL seventeenth century, are proofs, how proper it is toI: obey God rather than man ; and that, ‘ If a man’sways please the Lord, he maketh his enemies to beat peace with him.’ Many of these excellent men,ejected by the act of uniformity, have confessed ontheir death-beds, that they would not have actedi otherwise than they did, for ten thousand worlds.Let us also hold fast the profession of our faith with¬out wavering, for faithful is he who hath promised.7* The manner of our confession greatly recom¬mends it. As it must originate, as already hinted,in faith in Christ, and flow from inward experience(for the saints cannot but speak what they have seen,and heard, and felt) so it must be free and ur.re-; strained. It must be our own voluntary act, and: not the effect of compulsion, or a fear ofoffendrrgothers,- or a desire to please men. This confessionI must also be full, and adapted to the circumstancesof the times: full, without obscurity ; and full,without concealment of any of the doctrines of theword. In exhibiting this confession, as in all re¬ligious duties, we should be truly sincere ; our loveto Christ, the animating principle of this-tonfession,J t must be sincere: Our zeal f>r the glory of God,f the credit of Iris cause, the honour of his truth, thej propagation of his gospel, the encouragement and- 16comfort of h/s friends, and the conviction of hisenemies, must be pure and unfeigned. Such a cause mdemands integrity and resolution of mind to carry 'it i]jto effect: We should confess Christ boldly and |,without fear or shame. This courage in confessingChrist, is not animal hardiness, or fortitude taughtin the schools, but it flows from faith in God, as onr |shield and buckler: It is being strong in the Lord, tand in the power of his might. Conscious of a goodcause, and of the approbation of God, we may tookthe wrath of men and terrors of devils out of coun¬tenance. None of these things move me, saith Paul,neither count I my life dear to myself, (though dear tothe church,) sa that I might finish my course with joy,&c. I am ready, says he in another place, not to be Jjbound only, but to die at Jerusalem, for the name tf theLord Jesus, Acts xx. 21. and xxi 13. We are in nnothing to be terrified by our adversaries. At the |same time we are to confess Christ patiently, with a Idisposition and resolution to suffer for our testimo- Itny, if God call us to it in his providence. John :was in the isle called Patmos, for the word of God, iand for the testimony of Jesus Christ: if he had de- i;nied Christ, and worshipped idols, he had not beenthere. We should always prefer suffering to sin: :When we are called to suffer for Christ, the suffer¬ing virtues or graces should conspicuously appear iin meekness, mildness, and forgiveness of enemies. ;Resignation to the will of God, and silence as to imen, will have their perfect work, and these may ;recommend religion more than graces of a more :active nature: The sufferings and blood of the mar- !:tyrs have extended the church. Above all, we 1should always render the reason of the hope that is tin us, with meekness and fear. Our conduct inconfessing Christ, should discover humility of spirit, Ia fear of God, and reverence of men, before whomwe confess his name; that we contend for truth17and not for words, and names, and victory ; and,in one word, never to give over till we have finishedour testimony, as the two witnesses mentioned, Rev.( xi. 7 did ; their lives and their confession ended to-I gether. We should occupy and hold fast till Christcome ; and though we may have but little strength,we should keep his word, and never deny his name,■ If we keep the word of his patience, he will alsokeep us from the hour of temptation which shallcome on all the world, to try them that dwell uponthe earth, Rev. iii. 8. Id.HEAD II.j The import of the promise, Him nvtll I also confess5 before my Father ‘which is in heaven.These words refer to a period in which all worldsii are interested, the great day of judgment, when all. rational beings that have ever existed, shall meet in, one vast assembly before the judgment seat of Christ.I In that solemn day Christ will be Judge, and pre-i side in settling the destinies of these beings for eter-; nity : and it must be. unspeakaby exhilarating to be5confessed by snch an illustrious personage, and be-Ifore such an illustrious congregation, and before theJFitther and his angels. To be confessed by Christiat the time referred to, may imply,-l 1. That Christ, whom they confessed before men,Jhath a high, value for bis faithful witnesses. Allhis saints are precious in his sight ; and he keepsthem as the apple of his eye, and sets them as a sealon his heart and on his arm ; but those who are jea¬lous for him, when his covenant is forsaken, his altars!thrown down, and his prophets killed, are held inoeculiar estimation by him who is the faithful and.true wisness: Their prayers, their tears, theirjeflorts, their contending* for his cause, are embalm-18 -ed in his presence. His eye and heart are uponthem, from the one end of the year till the otherend of the year. It imports also, that his graciouspresence was with them in their work and warfare.Without him they could do nothing ; but he madetheir shoes iron and brass, and as their day was, sois their strength: His Spirit excited and directedtheir zeal against the sins and errors *f the times.His promise supported their hearts in the difficultiesof their profession. His providence opened a doorfor action to them in their several stations and places:Without him, they would have fallen before the prison¬ers, and boioed doiyn under the slain, (Isa. X. 4.) butby his assistance they ran through a troop, and bytheir God they leaped over a wall:—out of weaknesswere made strong ; waxed valiant in fght, and turnedto flight the armies of the aliens. It may also im¬ply, that he gave testimonies to their sincerity inhis Service : Besides a consciousness of his approba¬tion, or the testimony of their consciences, they en¬joyed the satisfaction of seeing the work prosperingin their hands. Whatever Hezekiah undertook inthe work of Gr>d, he did it with all his heart andprospered, (2 Chron. xxx. 21.) Hypocrites may,in the mysterious providence of God, be useful inthe church ; but God carries on his work generallyby right hearted men, men who really rejoice in theprosperity of religion, and who are deeply afflictedT|vhen it is interrupted, men whose hearts are in al¬liance with heaven, and have common friends, andcommon enemies with God The Holy Ghost issent to carry on the work of Christ in the church,and not to exalt worms into importance, by enablingthem to claim a share of the honours which belongto him.• 2. These words may imply, that Christ will pub¬licly acknowledge them in the day of judgment, ashis disciples, his friends, and faithful witnesses..*19Them that hononr him, he will honour. Honourand praise bestowed by real judges of excellence,; are worth having. The honour which is to all the!• • ^saints, is awarded by God, the judge of all, andmust be great beyond thought or expression ! Menare commonly fond of applause before a nmkirude,as in the Olympic games, when the prizes weredistributed before assembled Greece, and loud shoutsaccompanied the distribution Here is honodir con-f .’.Ted in the presence of a world ! How many eyesshall see, and ears hear, the plaudit of Christ to allhis saints ! Christ will not then be ashamed of anyof his people in that day, but will acknowledge themas belonging to him, how despicable soever, andpoor and afflicted, and unknown they were in theworld. Then they that he ‘wise, shall shine as the bright¬ness of the firmament, and they that turn many to righte¬ousness, as the stars, for ever and ever, Dan. xii, 3.Christ will then stafhn their characters for eternity,as his real friends, who folioweil him on fearth thro*good and bad report, wfflo bore his cross, and en¬dured hardness, as his good soldiers, who walkedby faith, and preferred Jerusalem to their chief joy;who grieved when he was dishonoured, and rejoiced■when his kingdom came, and his will was done onearth. He will then vindicate their characters fromthe foul aspersions cast upon them by their enemies,as trcublers of Israel, turners of the world upsidedown, pestilent fellows, movers of sedition, enemiesto Csesar, formers of a party, ambitious demagogues,separatists, factious persons, &c. All these calum¬nies will be wiped away in the presence of those whoinvented and propagated them in the w'orld: andsurely this will fill the calumniators with unutter¬able confusion ? Jesus will confer on his confessorsa gracious reward, a crown of glory, righteousnessand life, that fadeth not away ; he will give them themorning star, they shall put on their robes of victory,■20the palm shall be put into their hands, the new songin their mouth, mortality siall be swallowed up oflife, death of victory, their bodies shall be fashionedlike unto Christ’s glorious body, ar» they shall befor ever with the Lord ! Who would not wish, inthe prospect of that eternal weight of glory, tohave confessed Christ before men ?3. That he will vindicate the cause itself forwhich,they contended on earth. Christianity hasbeen the subject of mucli debate, animosity and ridi-cle, since its first introduction into the world. It hasbeen execrated by Jews, reviled by Mahometansand the heathens, when it appeared, deemed it acursed superstition ! But its deepest wounds bav$been received' in the house of its friends. Manywho bear Christ’s name, deny the peculiar doctrinesof the cross, and sap the foundations of a sinner’shope for eternity. Others, in a Christian country,affirm, that the Bible is not from God, but a fictionof men f Another class of Christians, perhaps falselyso called, are fierce for moderation, and assert, thatcontending for a pure profession of religion, is butanother name for a party spirit, and is, as mattersnow stand, altogether impertinent: But, whenChrist cometh the second time, things shall he seenin a different light, the controversy between himand all his rivals shall be ended. Great is thetruth, and it shall then have prevailed! The au¬thority and excellence, and triumphs of Christianityshall then appear, in their utmost evidence, in oppo¬sition to deism in all its shapes. The necessity of apublic and spirited stand for the peculiar doctrinesof the gospel, in opposition to slothful, covetous,and cowardly tempotizers, shall, doubtless meetwith the divine approbation. The stedfastness ofthe church in her principles, in opposition to thewavering and unstable in religion, will be fully vin¬dicated. Let us act now as we would wish to have21I|done at the day of judgment, and choose that reli¬gion which will support us through life, with all itschanges, at ddith, with all its terrors, and in the dayof the Lord, with all its solemnities !Ill—INFERENCES.1. That the work of Christ is honourable andglorious. Christ is a glorious person, and his workmust be very honourable. '1'he highest orders ofcreatures adore him without end, in heaven ; covertheir faces in his presence, and reckon it their su¬preme felicity to be employed in his service. Insome cases the worker honours the work, but in re¬ligion tire worker is ennobled by the work. How-glorious is our Master, how pleasant his service, andhow great the reward ! Who would not say, Thineare we, 0 T)avid! and on thy side thou sen of Jesse :Peace be to thee, and to thine helpers, for thy God helpeththee. Compared to this, every other employment isdespicable and paltry ; every other honour is dis¬grace ; and all other pleasures are stale and insipid.O taste and see that our God is good ! 2. ThatChrist hath every reason to be ashamed of us, butwe none to be ashamed of him. God is not asham¬ed to be called our God, and shall we be ashamedto be his people, or to avow ourselves such ! It isan eternal wonder that Christ ever appeared on ourside, and did and suffered, what we should havedone and suffered, and yet could not ; and it is al¬most an equal wonder, to hear of sinners that areashamed of this glorious person ! 3. That the spi¬rit of a church is known from her testimony andconfession. If these are tests of her orthodoxy,then, having orthodox standards, her administra¬tions should be scriptural and pure The spirit ofa society is not known to the world, or to sisterchurches, if it has no creeds and confessions, or tes¬timonies. The Bible is not the testimony of thechurch, it is the testimsny of God to men. The22gospel is the record of heaven concerning Christ,and it is not the creed of any society of Christians,4. It is the indispensibie duty of aU Christians, toconfess Christ, by a bold and faithful testimony fortruth. The greater part of men, aia>s! are at easein Zion, with regard to the concerns of their souls,and of the honour of the Redeemer. The things ofthe world engross their attention and time, andthey are like the deaf adder to the voice of reli¬gion. The church may rise or fall for them, mayincrease or decrease, the godly may be few or ma¬ny, oppressed or in prosperity, it is all indifferentto them; but this lukewarmness is very hateful toChrist, and he will spue those under its influenceout of his mouth. We should rouse ourselves andothers to our duty about the public interests ofChrist’s kingdom, and love that Zion whom no manseeketh after. The zeal of others in spreading thegospel through the world, should animate us to holdfast what we have,and to pray earnestly,and to pray¬er add active exertions, that ihe wlmle earth maybe filled with the glory of Christ. Those who loveChrist, and prize his gospel, have the most tendersympathy with the people sitting in darkness, hav¬ing no light. 51 That Christ is a good master,and will not allow any thing we do for him, in thespirit of the gospel, to lose its reward. In keepingIds commandments there is a great reward ; theyhave great p?ace who love his law. True religionis indeed its own recompence ; godliness hath thepromise of this life, and of the life to come. If weconfess him before men, he will confess us beforehis Father ; if we confess him in this world, he willnot deny us in the next; if we serve him, and followhim ; where he is, there will we be also ; and hisFather will honour us : if we continue with him inhis temptations, he will give us a kingdom, thatwe may eat and diink at bistable, in his kingdom,23and sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes ofIsrael. (Luke xxii* 28. 30.) 6. The duty of all pro¬fessors of religion, to hold fast their profession,without wavering ; to transmit it down to posterity;and, in the mean time, to honour it by a holy life.Men, brethren, and fathers, let us be valiant forthe truth on the earth. We serve a Master that willnever leave nor forsake us,and we plead a cause thatshall ultimately prevail; ourinf.rmitiesandourincon-sistencies are many, but the cause is good, even thecause of God and truth. A long list of witnesses,confessors and martyrs have preceded us in thiscourse, and fought the battles of the Lord ; butthey are now more than conquerors through himthjt loved them, Und know, in all their hearts andso^is, that the cause of Christ is worth contendingfor, and must be victorious. Let us follow themas they followed Christ. The precious principlesespoused by our ancestors, should not be desertedby us their sons. We are under the most solemnobligations to be faithful to God and his churchand truth in our day. The summaries of divinetruth in the Confession of Faith, in the Catechisms,Larger and Shorter, and in our own Testimony,should be frequently read by all, and inculcated byparents on their children, iu connection with a fre¬quent perusal of the word of God. These summa¬ries, however despised by a fastidious and self con¬ceited generation, are of excellent use in the church ;they tend to discover and condemn error, and toexhibit to the world what is called present truth:they not only discover and refute errors but theyare a strong preservative against it; when personsa~e acquainted with truth in its connections, or ina system, they are not easily led away from thetruth as it is in Jesus ; but ignorant and unstablesouls, ever learning, and never able to come to theknowledge of the truth, who have loose and dis*24.jointed views of divine tilings, these are the prey uevery innovator.—These summaries are also anexcellent help to the memory. Order and methodin all sciences, conduce to the acquisition of know-ledge. The reason why so many people forgetsermons, is, because they forget their catechisms;and it is not the multitude of tilings in the memorythat embarass the mind, but the disorder in whichthey He. Our most judicious hearers are thosewho are best acquainted with the lirst principles ofthe oracles of God. They follow us from Head toHead, and from Text to Text. Loose hearing mayplease for a while, but fixed hearing is ultimatelyprofitable. Those hearers also who know the doc¬trine of God and Christ, are best able to resist theinfluence of error delivered from the pulpit. Howunhappy are they vvliu hear those preachers whose *discourses are partly true and partly false ; whohave here a truth, and there an error; here a doc¬trine, and there an innovation ; who seem eageronly to startle their hearers with quirks, conceitsand novelties; but judicious hearers detect the fal¬lacy, and discover the cheat, and having tasted ofthe old wine, they say it is better than the new.These summaries serve also as a bond of unionamong ministers and peop!e: that they may allstand fast in one spirit, and speak the same things^Let us therefore hold f ast the form of sound words,in truth and love, and by the Holy Ghost dwellingin us. Let the savour of Christ’s knowledge bemanifested by us in every place, and be a means ofdrawing others to the love and knowledge of reli¬gion, and at length may we be perfect and entire,lacking nothing ; and give in our account withjoy, and not with grief; believing that if we con¬fess him before men, he will confess us before hisFather which is in heaven. Amen.FINIS.