ACry from the Oead;o a, t h aGHOSTO F T H EFamous Mr. James GuthrieAPPEARING.Being the kd: Seriion he preached in thePuipit of - tirling, before his Martyrdom,at Edinburgh, June ill 1661.TO WHICH 15 ADDED,HIS LAST SPEECHUPON T H 17SCAFFOLD.ASERMON,PREACHED AT STIRLING^BY Mr. JAMES GUTHRIE,On the Sabbath-day in the forenoon, being the 19th.of Auguft, 1660. Upon the 2 ad. verfe of the xiv.chap, of Matthew. He did alfo read the 23d. and24th. verfes of the fame chapter : but had not occa-fion to preach any more ; he being hnprifoned theThurfday thereafter.Text. * Matth. xiv. 22, 23, 24.« And ftraightway Jefus cor.ftrained his difciples to get‘ into a fttip, and to go before him unto the other« fide, 'while he fent the multitudes away. And‘ when he had fent the multitudes away, he went* up into a mountain apart to pray ; and when the‘ evening was come, he was there alone. But the* fhip was now in the midft of the fea, toiled with‘ waves: for the wind was contrary.IT is of purpofc, and by choice, in reference to thecondition and trial of thefe times, we have refolved,through the Lord's affiftance, to fpeak fomewhat ofthis piece of trial, and of the ftorm wherewith the dif¬ciples of our Lord Jefus Chrift were exercifed at fea,and the rather we have chofen to fpeak fomewhat ofthefe words, becaufe they were the choice of a veryprecious* Mari vi. 46. John vi. 16.A CRY FROM THE DE AT). 3arecious and worthy man, to fpeak of in a day of trial,! mean, of that eminent fervant of God, John Knox,whom the Lord did help to be a moft. eminent inftru-1 ment of the work of reformation in the church ; weihall not much ftand on any particular unfolding of thetranches of the text, but take them as they ly in order.The thing we defire you firft to look to, is how the(lory that is recorded in thefe verfes, is knit with thefe(that go before, for we will find th*n knit together bymany of the evangelifts, viz. the ftory of the gloriousmiracles wrought by Jefus Chrift the Lord, in feedingfo many thoufands of people with a few loaves, and afew little fifltes; after this, that fad trial which the dif-cipks met with at fea: they are knit by the ivangeliflsMatthew, Mark and John, after that the Lord JefusiChrift had preached to the people and his difciplc#, endtiad fed many thoufands with a few loaves, and a fewifiihes, and had rnanifelled much of his power and glory,(he conjlrahu his difciples to get into a Jh:p% and to%o before him unto the other Jidc, 'a.'hile he fent themultitude away,) he fends his difciples to the fea,and the multitude away, that they Ihould not for afeafon hear any more of his doftrinc, nor fee any moreof his miracles.That we may lay a foundation for fomewhit foryour edification. Firft, It may be enquired, why itis, that he fends away both his difciples and the multi¬tude at that time, and would have an interruption ofihia dodtrine and miracles, when he fends his difciplesto the fea, and the multitude to their own home ? If■ we look into the other evangelifts, we will find theicaufes there enough, Mark vi. 52. the caufe is giventhere, why he thus exercifed his difciples; For theytconftdered not the miracle of the loaves, for their hearts'siuerc hardened. Albeit, the Lord Jefus Chrift hadrevealed much of his power and glory in the miraclelof the loaves; yet his difciples did not duly confiderthereof: therefore he would needs exercife them with: a ilorm, ar.d a tempeft at fea, that they might both be| taught in the knowledge of their own weaknefs, and4 A CRY FROM THF DEADalfo might be better fchooled in the faith of his poweiand glory. The reafon why he fent the multitudeaway, is fet down in the gofpel written by John,chap. vi. 26. When the multitude comes again, Veri¬ly, verily, I fay unto you, ye feel: me, not becaufeJaw the miracles, but becaufe ye did eat of the loavesXand were jiiled Compare it with that in the iethverf'e. When fefus Chit ft therefore'perceived that the^would come and take him by force, to male him ai^ling, he departed again into a mountain himfelf alone, iFie knew, that fbr all that they had feen and heardof his word and miracles, they were of a very carnaldifpofition. and feeking to eftablifh to themfelves car¬nal profperity and peace : therefore he fent them awayfor a time.• From the connexion of thefe two hiilories, and frothe fcope of the whole, we offer you one point of doc¬trine ; that the Lord Jefus Chrift is oft times, anordinarily pltafed after fpecial manifeflations of hipower and glory in his church, and amongft his peopleito exercife them with fpecial pieces of trial, and']troubles, and dorms. After his doing of great workfor their comfort, he is ordinarily pleafed, to raife greatand dreadful {forms and tempefts, for their exercife andtrial. So here when he hath, in a moft comfortableand kindly way, banqueted them, and revealed muchof his power and love in fo doing, he fends them afterm and temped, on the back of it, and will have aninterruption of his doctrine and miracles for a time,wherein they are all like to be drownedid Inftance. There are many inflances in the word,,of the Lord’s dealing thits; iook in the books of Mo-fes, what follows on the back of that glorious deliver¬ance, that the Lord gave to the people of Ifratl out of:Egypt: they are exercifed forty years in the wildernefs,]in which they had many a fad day, ere they entered.]the land of Canaan.2d Inft The like we may fee in the church of If~!rael, 1 Sam. vii. The.Lord gave a great deliverancefrom the Philiftir.es by the miniftry of hb fervant Sam¬uelA CRY FROM THE DEAD. 5,L;1, and a glorious bleffsd work of reformation thireIras, but all that was again deftroyed by the. hand cfSaul, and perfecution raifed again the church of God.3d Init. A third inilance ye will nnd, if ye willf-ead the hiftory of the reign of Hexekiah and Manaffeh1 cings of Judah, as it is recorded in the iecond book ofMphronicles ; there was a great reformation in the dayspf Hezekiah, a covenant fworn by the king, princes,' prieits, and the whole body of the land ; all corruptionlicail out, the pure worfftip and ordinances of God letripp, but there was a dreadful trial by the hand of Sen-bacherib ; fcarcely was Hezekiah well in his grave, till1 ManuTeh fucceetls in his room, and brings in corruptionMnd perfecution, both at once.1 i 4th Inft. A fourth ulifance was in the days of: foiiah, how much of the power, and glory' of the Lord1 is mauifefled ; but how fad a trial comes on the backbf it, that the church feeros to be wholly defaced by1 the king of Babylon.w 5th In'd. A fifth ir.ftance we will find, efter thefret urn of Ifrael out of Babylon ; in the iv. of Ezra,the foundation of ttie Lord’s houfc is laid; but in a' little while the work interrupted, till the fecocd year»f Darius the king, by the derifion and enmity ofiilwicked men.1 6th In it. A like inftance yon firall aifo find in thejINew Tefiameat; look what a length our bleffed Lordftjbrought the work of the gofpel, but what foliows ininhe xvi. of John, 31ft. and 3^1! verfes, Do ye nozv te-ijj||Jttrve P Behold the hour cometbr yea, is uow come, thatlive Jhall be fcattered, every man to his own, and fhallmleaw me alone- And he is crucified, and laid in hisn grave, and a (lone laid on the grave’s mouth, and lit¬is tie appearance that ever there fhould have been morei I mention of him, in the land of the living.7th Inll. i'hen look another inltance, in the daysI j of the apoftles, in the f, ii, Hi, iv, and v. chapters ofI the Aits, what a bleffed reformation there was ; but Hr1! the clofe of the vi. chapter, and in the beginning of1) the viith, ye fee what a fad interruption and fcatteiing* A CRY FROM THE DEAD.ther^’ ii! in the church, and a great perfecution raifeqjagain ft it.Sth Inft. And as there are many inftances in theword, fo there are many inftances in the ftory of thechurch, many great things were done by the apoftles;and a glorious reformation there was in the bringingin of the Gentiles; but how dreadful a perfecution israif. d through ail the world.yth Inti. And there is a notable inftance* when theJjord began to refotm the church from the darknefs of 1Popery, by that worthy inftrument Luther: but fhort-Jy after, did not Charles the fifth raife a cruel war,againft all the princes of Germany, and raife cruel] iedidls againft all that clave to the church.icth left. And alfo, in the days of king Edwardthe fixth, that good prince, what a glorious work wasin England ; but a few years after that godly princedied, queen Mary fucceeds, brings in Popery, and raifesa bitter perfecution againft the faints of God.i ith Inft. And ye cannot be fo great ftrangers toyour own condition at home ; how fad an interruptionthe work of reformation met with, from the Prelatesnot long ago.So that there is nothing more ordinary in the church,than after the Lord has communicate himfelf in a fpe-cial way in his power and glory, than,to exercife themwith fad ftorms and tempefts on the back of h.Concerning this difpenfation, we would, Firll, en¬quire a little into the grounds and reafons of it, whythe Lord fees it fit to do fo ? Ntxt, into the kinds ofit, or in what fcveral ways it is, that he fees it fit todo fo ?For the reafons, grounds, and caufes of it, we fhallnot fpeak of many, though many might be fpoken of;but (hortly touch feme of the moft common and ob¬vious.ift Pveafcn. Firft, The Lord makes fuch a chang¬ing of his dealing with bis church, for the chaftilingof their fin, and corre&ing of their iniquity. A peo¬ple to whom he manifefts himfelf in his power andA CRY FROM THE DEAD. 7glory, and mercy and truth, do not always behavethemfelves as they ought to do, but even while he isdealing kindly with them, they do many ways provokehim to wrath. Therefore God, for corre&ing theirfin, and chaftifing their iniquity, brings troubles andiftorms upon them. In the xcix. Pfalm, the Lord isbrought to take vengeance on the inventions of hispeople in the wildernefs; that ye may uaderftand thisthe better, look the Ixxviii. Pfalm, which is a clearcommentary to this, where his rod wherewith he pun-ifhed that people in the wildernefs, and delayed theirentrance into Canaan, and their fm both are fet down :their unltedfaftnefs in the Lord’s covenant. Ye maylook fome of the proofs of thefe fins-ift Sin. Firft, In the 10th. and nth. verfes ofi Pfalm Ixxviii. They kept not the covenant of God, and re-fufed to tvalk in hie taw; and forgot hii works, andwonders that he hadJhewed them. They were unftedfaftin the Lord’s covenant. In the xix. and xx. chaptersof lixodus, they entered into a moil folemn covenantwith God, that all of them undertook to Hand to, andto prove faithful therein ; but they kept not his cove¬nant, but dealt deceitfully in it, therefore he brought: fuch dorms On them in the wildernefs, and fo long fuf-pended their entrance into the promifed landad Sin. A fecond fin is, in the j 8th. verfe, theyi finned yet more and tempted him in their hearts, byJ qfking meal Jor their tufts. They are not fatisfied with; the things that God has allowed them, but luiled after: flrange things, and became kiilful in their appetites:: therefore God is wroth, and thus exercifeth them in-I the wildernefs.3d Sin. A third fin is, in the 2zd. verfe, theirjl diffidence and unbelief; they believed not God,and trufted not in his falvation ; they put tempt¬ing quellions,. concerning his power and goodnefs inthe 19th. verfe, Can God fvrnifh a table in thewildernefs ? Therefore he thus exercifed them withj ftorms.4th Sin. A fourth fin is, they cefpifed and under¬valued8 A CRY FPvOM THE DEAD. ,valued tPe precious mama, which God lent down from |Jheavefi, for fteding of them, Numb. xxi. 5. Our /ba//||icathed this light Iread. •5th Sin. A fifth fin is, their murmuring, grudging, Iand repining againft God. I6th Sin. A fixth fin is, their complaint of coming llout of fcgvpt; their rebellion and (peaking of a captainto return buck again. |7th Sin. The laft fin is, their corrupting the worfhip |of (dod, and making a golden calf. And becaufe ofthefe fins, the Lord is angry and coirecteih and chaf-tifeth them forty years long in the ivildernefs.2d Reafon. A fecond reafon is, the Lord’s bring¬ing fad ftorms on the back of glorious manifeftations ofhimfelf in his word and works, is, for purging of hispeople. As he will correct them, and have them to .know the bitternefs of their fin, fo he will have them :to be purged of it. There is a fad trial in the xi. ofDaniel, and this is given as the reafon of it; to purge,to try, and to make white, in the 35th verfe, 4r.dCame of them of underfunding Jhall Jail, to try them, andto purge, and to malt them •white, even to the time of theend: becaufe it is yet for a time appointed. t here is inthe church and people of God, much drofs, thereforehe fees it neceffary, they be put to the fire, for purg¬ing away their drofs,3d Reafon. A third reafon wherefore the Lordbrings fad ftorsns, on the back of glorious manifefia-tions of himfelf, is for difcoveiing and bringing forththe hypocrites, and fuch as arc unfound, Daniel xi. 34. •Many cleave to the Lord’s people by flattery j efpeciab (ly, it is fo, when the Lord is eminently appearing; andrevealing himitlf glorioufiy in his word and works;many then undertake a proftffion, in whofe hearts thereis no fincerity amT truth ; many then cleave to thecaufe and work of God by flattery, which Ids foulcannot endure ; therefore he brings a winnowing fan,and fets them up before the wind, that he may knowwho is chaff, and who is corn, Pfalm exxv. 4, 5. Hedoth good to theft that are upright in heart ; but, as forJuchA*CRY FROM THE DE AD. 9fuch as turn afide to crooked tv'iys, the Lord JhaN lead/them forth with the workers of iniquity. There; ore'jidifeovery of fueh, he fends fad ftorms on the back ofreformation.Another reafon of the Lord’s bringing fad florrnsrand tempelts on his people, on the back of glrriousimanifeftatiocs of himfelf, is, that he ma-/ prove anditake a trial of the integrity, faith, and patience of hisfaints; and in trying them to purchafe glory to himfelf,and a name to them. 1 Pet. i. 7. ‘That the trial ofyour faith (being much more precious than of gold thatpenfhdh, though it be tried with fre,) might be foundunto praife, and honour, and glory, at the appearing ofJefus Chrijl.There is alfo a reafon concerning adverfaries, whichwe (hall not now meddle with.| But we come to the fecond point, How it is, or inwhat feveral forts of ways it is, that the Lord is pleafedthus to difpenfe, I mean, to fend (forms and trials onihis fervants and people, immediately on the back ofTome glorious appearance, and notable works of kind-nefs and mercy amongft them. There might be a great(many ways named, how the Lord is pleafed to do thus;1 we (hall name only four generals.til Way, Firft, He does it fometimes by the inter¬rupting of his work. Thus he did it .in that placei cited before, Ezra iv. After the foundation of the• Lord’s houfe is laid, a company of malignant men,i enemies to the poor people of God, and his work, whoare exceeding ill fatisfied that the work of God ihouldoprofper, they come by all means to interrupt thework of God: and when they could not prevail byflattery, they go to the king of Perfia, and load the; people of God with falfe afperations, that they wereabout to rebel, &c. by which fuggefttons, they obtainletters from the king, commanding them to ceafcit building of the temple, and when the copy of the king’sletter was read, they made them to ceafe by force andpower, &c.2d Way. A fecond way is, by corruption, when. fuffersJO A CRY FROM THE DEAD,fuffer; evil inftruments, not only to make an interrup-.lion, but to make a corruption, fo to fpeak, and tomingle thefe with the purity of his ordinances andworflup. God raifes up ill inftruments, to make the,people lick up tire vomit of thefe corruptions, which;have been formerly caft out. There had been a blefied;reformation in the days of Hezekiah, and all corrup¬tion caft out, but all that corruption is brought in againin the days of ManafTeh, and more and worfe than everhad been before.3d Way. A third way is, by deftruftion, fo tofpeak; not only when the work of reformation is in¬terrupted, and corrupted, but when it is deftroyed andtaken away. There is in the days of Zedekiah, a totaldeftroying of the temple, and all the work.4th Way. A fourth way is, by perfecution to thefethat cleave to the truth and work of God. Thus itwas in the days of the apoftles, Afts v. They fall onthe minifters of the Lord’s houfe, and flay feme ofthem with the fword, and put others in prifen ; fothat they could not preach the ivord in Jerufalem. Someone, or all of thefe ways, the Lord fets on foot fuchdifpenfations.1 ft Ufe. We would now fpeak fomewhat of theufe we would make of it. And, iirft, It fays this tous, that we of this church and nation would be lockingfor a florin: the Lord hath been gracioufly pleafed tomake glorious difee veri^s of his power and mercy in hisword and works amengft us, now thefe many yeais,and even on that account, we would be looking for afterm : And we fhall give you thefe few rcafons where¬fore we would look for it.ill. Reafon. Becaufe, as I told you, it is ordinarywith God in his difpenfations to his people, to knitthefe two together, with great manifeftations of hismercy, to bring troubles, tempefts, and trials, as yewill find frequently in the word.zd Reafon. A feccnd reafon wherefore we wouldlook for a ftorm, is, becaufe we are guilty of thefe.fins, that bring on ftorm* on the church, and people ofGod*A CRY FROM THE DEAD. 11God. We have told you what ftornis came on Tfraclin the wlldernefs, after their coming out of Egypt*and we have told you their fin that brotight them on ?unftedfaftnefs in the Lord’s covenant, inus muring a-gainft God tempting of God, diffidence, and unbelief;defpifing and loathing of the precious manna, their re¬belling againft God, their corrupting of the worfhfp,and ordinances of God, See. See if we be not guiltyof all thefe fins: Have we not been unftedfaft in theCovenant? Is not the obligation thereof in a greatmeafure forgotten? and who has remembered to per¬form his vow unto the Lord, almoft in any thing,either in the national, or fo’emn-league and covenant ?are we not guilty of luffing, and not fat'sfied with thethings that God has given us, but the heart is carriedaway with the luff of the eyes, the lull of the fielh, andthe pride of life ? are we not guilty of repining againitGod ? are we not guilty of defpiling and loathing theprecious manna of the gofpel ? are we "not guilty ofmifoelief and tempting of God ! are we net guilty ofcorrupting of the ordinances of God, and fpoiling many•of his precious truths ? and are their not many fpeak-ing of making a captain to return again to Egypt,and to involve themfelves in the bondage of all thefecorruptions, which have been formerly call out, andengaged againit in the covenant ; and if for thtfethings God brought ftortns on them, how lhall weavoid them.3d Reafon. A third thing that fays there is a llortucoming, is, becaufe thefe amongll whom he dotheminently manifelt himfelf, he doth alfo eminently try.them, that he may bring forth their faith and pa¬tience. We have had trials, but none of us have re¬filled unto blood, they have been but frelh water trials:the trials are not anfwerable to thefe eminent difpen-fations enjoyed. We have but run with the foot-anen, and have not yet contended with the horfe-men,we have not yet fwimmed in the fwellings of Jordan,Jcr. xii, 5.4th Rcafon. A fourth thing that fays that there isa florm12 A CRY FROM THE DEAD,a ftorm coming, is, becaufe that there is among us ahuge multitude of hollow-hearted men, joined in thecovenant with treacherpus hearts, the Lord hathbrought forth many, of thefe already, but it is like,there will be more vifible difcoveriee, that will makemen difown and difavow the covenant of God.5th Reafon. Another thing that fays ye wouldlook for a itorm, is, becaufe that it is already begun ;the wind of the Lord’s fan is beginning to blow ;feverals who were eminent in the work of the Lordare impril'oned ; feveral anibai'fadors of the Lord’s houfecalf oat; and doth not this fay that there is a ftormcoming.6th Rtafon. Laftly, This fays, that ye would lookfor a ftorm, becaule all the wicked, and thefe thathave been enemies to the people of God are alreadylifting up the head ; and that is ay the prognoftic of aftorm.life 2. The fecond ufe is, as we would look for aftorm, fo we would net ftumhle at it when it comes,becaufe it is the work of our God, it is the ordinarypath-road that the Lord ufes to take or give in hisciiipenfations to his church and people, till of them wewould beware of.Stumbling 1. The firft ftumbltng of the children ofIfrael that we read of, when ftorms were !:ke to rife,they Humble fo far as to fptak of quitting the work ofthe Lord, and not marching on further to take poflef-fton of the promifed land ; and they fpeak of making acaptain to return back again to Egypt : we would fearthat that ftiould he the Humbling of many in thefetimes, that they (hall take a refolution to quit all thework of God, and the work of reformation, and hecontent to be carried back again to thefe corruptionsfrom whence they were, by the mercy of God, deliver¬ed. That is a meft dreadful ftumbling ; we warn youcf it, and we befeech you in the name of the Lord totake head to it.Stumbling 2. A fecond fort of Rumbling that wewould beware of, is, the ftumbling of Doeg the E-domite,A CRY FROM THE DEAD. 13t »mite, 1 Sam. xxii. when a ftorm was like to arife>on the’ church and people of God, he Humbles fo far11 thefe things as he falls to be an accufer of thofei at had been employed in the work of God, and• lalked in their integrity, to accufe honeft holy David ;I id from an accufer came to be an open perfecutor of[ .e people of God. We would take heed that for') irrying favour to ourfelves, we be not accufers of o-e iers, this is the way of many in thefe nations, theyt now no other way of currying favour to themfelves;ut by becoming accufers of the faints of God : look> it, for in a while ye will turn open perfecutors:hen none would fall on the priefts of the Lord, Doeg. he Edomitb, ere he would lofe the favour he had got-:n, fell on them.I I Stumbling 3. A third fort of Humbling that we11’ould beware of, is, the Humbling of Shebna, treafureri |r fcribe, Ifa. xxii. when Sennacherib, invaded Judah,hough he pretended friendfhtp, yet he in a fecret way: omplied with Sennacherib, and fo far as in him lay,: ipplanted good king Hezekiah, and the people of: iod ; we would take heed of that.f) Stumbling 4. Another fort of Humbling that we1 vould beware of, is, that Humbling of Demas. 2 Tim.1 v. 10. who when a Horm arofe, he thought it meeti o (hift for himfelf, and embrace this prefent world,t pemas has forfaien us, fays Patti, having loved this pre-ent world, and is departed unto ‘Thefjalonua. Lookwe pray you jn this place, to that which is mod likeo be your temptation, viz. the lufl of the things of‘the world, if ye will prove HedfaH in the caufe that ye'have owned, and therefore we would Hudy to have ouri nearts loofed from thefe things that will make you Hum-de in a Hormy day.1; Stumbling 5. Another fort of Humbling that wewould beware of, is, the Humbling of Baruch, Jer.' \lv. 3. when he and Jeremiah were like to be put tojiieath, for the caufe that they were engaged unto, he.ainted and was afraid ; IVo is me, fays he, for the\Lord has added grief to my furrow, I fainted in my Jtgh-ingi+ A CRY FROM THE DEAD.ir.g, and 1 find no reft. We would take heed that wrfaint not, neither be of a fearful heart, own the caufi ('of God, and interelt of Jefus Chrift. Yea, that carnal fear carries Peter fo far as to deny his Lord ancMailer,Stumbling 6. We would beware of the ftumblindof Judas, who, when he got the thing he would havtjbeen at, by the following of Jefus Chrift, he refolvesto betray his Mailer. Look that difappointments infollowing the caufe of Chrift, make you not turntreacherous im-to it.And laftly. We would beware of the Humbling oithe men of Judah, Jer. xliv. ij. Jeremiah would havehad them Haying in the land of Judah, and theyjwould not, but would go down to the land of Egypt.)And they tell him. It <was better ’with us when •wtt]-burnt Incsnfe to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink-offerings unto her, for then had we plenty of viSuals, and'were well, and faw no evil. We would take heed, .that nothing make us call in queftion the caufe ofGod, that we have been engaged in.Ufe 3. A third ufe, if it be fo that tempefts andftorms are like to blow, then we would be careful toprepare for them.A few things we would name, that we would lookto, for preparing of us.1. We would ftudy to have our Ihip as light of allunnecefiary burdens, as we can ; I mean, all things ofa prefent world, all things befide GoS, and our preci¬ous fouls; we w’ould have as little weight of thefe things .on our fpirits as we may, for they will fink our fhip in* ftorm.2. We would he careful to make frtendfhip withJefus Chrift that bleffed pilot, that we may get him inthe Ihip with us, for we are not able to ftetr our (hipin a ftorm.3. We would be careful to keep a low fail, to haveour fpirits humble and low before the Lord, for thehumble foul is moft like to hold out, when the windand ftorm blow.4. We2/A CRY FROM THE DEAD.4. We would be careful to get the knowledgeof3 |tbe caufe that we profefs ; for indeed a dark night isi Ml to fail in, when the wind blows, and when there arei, quick-fands before us.And laftly. We would be careful to have our {hip: iwell ballafted with the faith and patience of the faints.Ufe 4. We would confider what grounds of con-i folation we (hall have for ftrengthening our hearts,' if we bide faft by the caufe of Jefus Chrift for the! bideing out of a florin, if fo be, God be pleafed to: bring it on us.r We might name many, only at this time take thefet few. The firll ground of encouragement, is, thata1 you have a good caufe, I mean the caufe of God, and; the interefl of Jefus Chrift, fpeak againfl it who will,k tforfake it who will, reproach it who will, doubtlefs3 good is the caufe, the caufe is worth the contending»' for, worth the fuffering any thing that can come■for it.s 2. Another thing to be a ground of comfort tois, as we have a good caufe, fo we have a goodCaptain too, Jefus Chrifl the Lord, who is the Cap-pain and Prince of falvatiou, who was never put tothe worfe, and who fits at the right hand of the Fa¬ther, and will reign there till he make all his enemieslu's footftodl.3. Another thing to be a ground of confolation tois, is, as we have a good, caufe; and a good Captain,o we have good company too, all in whofe hearts theTs'ear of the .Lord is, in thefe three nations, yea, moreve have all the faints that have lived fince the begin-fiing of the world ; for all ttye caufes they have owned»nd fuffered for, is one and the fame, though there be^'undry branches of it; we have alfo our own experi-Imces, and many things more of that kind. O thatve knew our privileges, for ftrengthening our heart*!o be fmccre and ftedfaft in his work. And fo weloCe.T H E E N D.Mr.Mr. JAMES GUTHRIE'SLAST SPEECH,UPON THESCAFFOLD.JUNE ift i66i.MEN and brethren, I fear many of you arc comehither to Raze, rather than to be edified bythe carriage and lad words of a dying man; but if anyhave an ear to hear, as l hope fowe of this great con¬fluence have, I defire your audience in a few words.I am come hither to lay down this earthly tabernacieand mortal flefit of mine, and I blefs God, through^hia grace, I do it willingly, and not by conflraint. ffay, I fuffer willingly ; if I had been fo minded, 1might have made a diverfion, and not been a prifoner;but being confcious to myfelf of nothing worthy of ideath, or of bonds, I would not ftain my innocencywith the fufpicion of guikintfs, by withdrawing ; |neither have I wanted opportunities and advantages to :efcape fince I was a prifoner, not by the fault of my ikeepers, God knovreth, but otberwife; but neither ifor this had I light or liberty, left. I Ihould refleft uponthe Lord’s name, and offend the generation of the ■righteous: and if fome men have not been miftaken,or dealt deceitfully in telling me fo, I might have a-voidedMr. GUTHRIE’S LAST SPEECH 17! ieided not only the feverity of the fentence, but alfolad much favour and countenance, by complying withme courfes of the times But l durft not redeem my|fe- with the lofs of my integrity ; God knaweth, Iinrlt not ; and that {nice I was a prifoner, ht hath foAolden me by the hand, that he never fuffered me totiring it in debate in my inward thoughts, much lefs0 propone or hearken to any overture of that kind,1 did judge it better to fuffer, than to fin: arid there-lore, I am come hither to lay down my life this day,.nd I blefs God, I die not as a fool; not that I havetny thing therein to glory in myfelf: 1 acknowledgelhat I am a firmer, yea, one of the greateil and vileitjhat have owned a proftfiion of religion, and one ofhe molt unworthy that 1 have preached the gofpel,!vly corruptions have been ftrong and many, and have. made me a finner in all things, yea, even in followingjny duty ; and therefore, righteoufnefs have I none ofiny own, all is vile. But I do believe, that Jefut' .Zhtijl came into ihe world to Jove Jinners, whereof I am\\hiej: through faith in his righteoufnefs and bloodsave 1 obtained mercy ; and through him, and in himsilone, have l the hope of a bleffed conquelt and victo-tjjy over hn^r.d Satan, and hell and death, and that I1 shad attain unto the refurreddion of the juft, and be■ made partaker of eternal life. / inow in whom I haveRelieved, and that he is able to k-.ep that which 1 havemommilted unto him againji that day. I have preachedjialvation through his name, and as I have preached,mo do I believe, and do commend the riches of his free• fjjtrace and faith in his name unto you all, as the only[.Way whereby ye can be laved.|| And, as l blefs the Lord, that I die not as a fool ;i Fo alfo, that I die not for evil-doing. Not a few ofl*ou may haply judge that I fuffer as a thief, or as aumtrderer, or as an evil-doer, or as a bufy-body in4pther men’s masters. It was the lot of the Lordijjfefus Chvjft himfeif, and hath been of many of hisijiprecious iervants, and people, to fuffer by the woildlips evil-doers; and as my foul fcareth not at it, butdeftreth18 Mr. GUTHRIE’S LAST SPEECHdefireth to rejoice in being brought into con tor micith my bleifed Head, and fo blefled a company,this thing ; fo I dtfire and pray, that 1 may benone of you to-day, upon this account, a flone cRumbling, or a rock of offence. Bleffed is he thfhall net be offended at Jefus Chrift, and his poor fenjvants and members, becaufe of their being condemnas evil-doers by the world. God is my record, thin thefe things for which fentence of death hath pafed againft me, I have a good coufcieuce. I bleGod, they are not matters of compliance with fe&ariesor dtfigns, or pra&ices, againft his majefty’s perfongovernment, or the perfon and government of his royafather; my heart, 1 blefs God, is cotifcious to no diloyalty, nay, loyal I have been, and 1 commend it tiyou to be loyal, and obedient in the Lprd Tru»piety is the foundation of true loyalty : a wicked mamay be a flatterer, and a time-ferver, but he winever be a loyal ftibjecl. But to return to my purpofefthe matters for which I am condemned, a're mattewbelonging to my calling and function, as a miniiteiof the gofpel, fuch as the difeovery and reproving ofin, the prefling and the holding fail of the path olGod in the covenant, and preferving and-t arrying or.the work of religion and reformation according there¬to, and denying to acknowledge the civil magiftrateas the proper competent immediate judge, in caufe:ccclefiaitical: that in all thefe things, which God fcordering by his gracious providence, are the groundsof my indictment and death, I have a good confcienceas having walked therein according to the light andrule of God’s word, and as did become a miniiter olthe gofpel.1 do alfo blefs the Lord, that I do not die as onenot defired. 1 know, that by not a few, I neitherhave been, nor am defined. It has been my lot to ba man of contention and forrow ; but it is my com¬fort, that for my own things I have not contended,but for the thingt of Jtfus Chnfll for what relatetii!to his imereti and work, and the well-being of hispeople.UPON THE SCAFFOLD. 19j people. In order to the preferving and promoting ofI thefe, I did protcft againft, and flood in oppofiticn to:| thefe late affemblies- at St. Andrews, Dundee, and! Edinburgh, and the public refolutions for bringing;| the malignant party into the judicatories, and armies:| of this kingdom, conceiving the fame contrary to theII word of God, and to our folemn covenant-engage-! ments; and to be an Ln-let to the defections, and to: the ruin, and deftrudlion of the work of God. Andit is now manifeft to many confciences, that I havenot been therein inittaken, nor was not fighting againfta man of ttraw. I was alfo defirous, and did ufe fome; poor endeavours, to have the church of God purged; of infufficient, fcandalOus, and corrupt minifiers andelders; for thefe things, I have been miftaken byfome, and hated by ethers: but I blefs the Lord, as: i had the teftimony of my own confcience, fo I was,1 and am therein approven in the confctences of many of! the Lord’s precious fervants and people; and howeverfo little I may die defired by fome, yet by thefe I; know I do die defired, and their approbation and:: prayers, and affeClion, is ot more value with me, thanthe contradiction, or reproach, cr hatred, of many o-I thers; the love of the one, I cannot recompence, and! the mifiake, or hatred, or reproach of the other, I do! with all my heart forgive ; and wherein I have offend¬ed any of them, I do beg their mercy and forgivenefs.I do from my foul wilh, that my death may be profit-1 able unto both: that the one may be confirmed andh eftablifhed iu the ftraight ways of the Lord ; and that' the other, if the Lord fo will, may be convinced, and'iceafe from thefe things that are not good, and do. noti edify but deftroy.One thing 1 would warn you all of, that God isi wroth, yea, very wroth with Scotland, and threatnethoto depart and remove his candleflick. The caufes ofi jhis wrath are many, and would to God it were notnone great caofe, that caufes of wrath are defpifed and• < rejeCfed of men. Confider the caufe that is recorded,j Jer. xxxvi. and the confequeoce of it, and tremble andfear'so Mr. GUTHRIE’S LAST SPEECHfear. I cannot but alfo fay, that there is a great ad¬dition and increafe of wrath; i. i3y that deluge ofprofanity that o^erfloweth all the land, and hath reinsloofed unto it every where, in fo far that many haveloft, not only all ufe and ezercife of religion, but evenof morality, and that common civility which is to befound amongft the heathen. i. By that horribletreachery and perjury that is in the matter of the coveriant, and caufe of God, and work of reformation ;He ajionifhed, 0ye heavens, at this, and he ye hvrrtbiy a-fraid, and be ye very defolate, faith the Lord: for mypeople have committed two great evils, they have forfAenme, the fountain of living waters, ami have hewed themout ctjierns, broken cijierns, that can hold no zvatersfhall he break the covenant and profper ? Shall thethrone of iniquity which frametb mfchief by a law, havefellowjhip with God? 4 fear the Lord be about to;bring a fword on thefe lands* which ftiall avenge thequarrel of h:s covenant. 3. Horrible ingratitude, the1the Lord after ten years oppreftion, and bondage,hath broken the yoke of ftrangers from off our neckr:but what do we render to him for this goodnefs ? mollof the fruit of our delivery is, to work wickedhfcfs*and to ftrengthen ourielves to do evil. 4. A moildreadful idolatry, and facnftcing to the cfeature, wehave changed the glory of the incorruptable God, into theimage of coiTuptihle man, in whom many have placedalmoft all their falvation and delire, and have turnedthat which might have been a bh-ffing unto us, (beingkept in a due line of fubordination under God) intoan idol of jealoufy, by preferring it before him. Godis alfo wroth with a generation of carnal, corrupt,time-ferving miniflers ; I know, and bear teftimony,that in the church of Scotland, there is a true and-faithful miniflry: bleffed be God, we have yet manywho ftudy their dutyi, and delire to be found faithfulto their Lord and Mailer; and I pray you to honour,,and reverence, and efteem much of thefe for theirwork's fake ; and 1 pray them to be encouraged intlttir Lord and Mailer, who is with them, to intaketheta, iUPON THE SC A FFOLB.' 21them as iron pillars and brazen walls, and as a ftrong| deforced city, in the faithful following of their duty;But, Oh! that there were not too many, who mind4 earthly things, and are enemies to the crofs of Jtfts Chrjl,who pufli with the fide and (boulder, who ftrengthen thehands of evil-doers, who make then-ft Ives tranfgreffors,by ftudying to build again what they did formerlywarrantably deftroy; I mean prelacy, and the cere¬monies and the fervice book, a myftery of iniquityithat works amongft us, whofe fteps lead unto thehoufe of the great whore of Babylon, the mother offornication; or whofoever elfe he be that buildethithis Jericho again, let him take heed of the curfeof Riel, the Bethelitc, and of that flying roll threat¬ened, Zecn. v. And let alt miniftets take heed thatithey watch, and be ftedfall in the faith, and quitth emfelves like men, and be ftrong; and give faith-iful and feafonable warning concerning far and duty.Many of the Lord’s people do ladly complain of the11 fainting and filence of many watchmen, and it con¬i' ccrneth them to confider what God calicth for at theirhands in fuch a day: filence now in a watchman, whenI he is to much called to fpeak, and give his teilimony,II upon the peril of his life, isdoubtlefs a great fin. The. Lord open the mouths of his fervants, to fpeak his,l word with ali boldnefs, that covenant-breaking may1 be difcovered and reproved, and that the kingdom1 of Jefus Chrift may not be fupplanted, nor the fouls| of his people be deltroyed without a vvitnefs. I have1 but a few words more to add ; ali that are profane a-s mongft you, I exhort them to repentance, for the dayi of the Lord’s vengeance hafteneth, and is near ; buti there is vet a door of mercy open for you, if you will( not defpife the day of falvation. All that are malig-( ners, and reproachers, and perfecuters of godlinefs,| and of fuch as live godly, take heed what ye tic ; it' will be hard for you to kick again!! the pricks ; you1 make yourfelvcs the butt of the Loul’s fury, and his- flaming indignation, if you do not ceafe from, and re-< pent of all your hard fpecchts, and ungodly deeds.Alln22 Mr. GUTHRIE’S LAST SPEECHAll that arc neutral, and indifferent, and lukewarm;profeffors, be zealous and repent, leff the Lord ‘ fpueyou out of his mouth.’ You that lament after theLord, and mourn for all the abominations that aredone in this city, and in the land, and take pleafurein the ftones and dull of Zion, call not away yourconfidence, but be comforted, and encouraged in the ■Lord ; he will yet appear to your joy : God hath notcall away his people, nor work, in Britain and Ireland,I hope it (hall once more revive by the power of his i;Spirit, and take root downward, and bear fruit up¬ward, and of this I am now confident. There is yeta holy feed and precious remnant, whom God will >preferve and bring forth; but how long or dark ournight may be, I do not know, the Lord ftiortcn it for ■the fake of his ■chofen. In the mean while, be ye <patient, and ‘ ftedfaft, unmoveable always abounding‘ in the work of the Lord,’ and in love one to ano- ••ther ; beware of fnares which are llrawed thick ;cleave to the covenant and work of reformation ; do ..•not decline the crofs of Chrifl; ‘ choofe rather to fuf- <;* fer affiiclion with the people of God, than to enjoy j‘ the pleafures of fin for a feafon,* and ‘ account the •* reproach of Chi ill greater riches, than all the trea- :■* fures of the world.’ Let my death grieve none ofyou, it will be more profitable and advantageous both j,for me and for you, and for the church of God, andfor Chrill’s interell and honour, than my life couldhave been. I forgive all men the guilt of it, and 1 de-lire you to do fo alfo; ‘ Pray for them that perfecute‘ you, and blefs them that curfe you ; blefs, 1 fay, and‘ curfe not.’ I die in the faith of the apollles, andprimitive Chrillians, and protellant reformed church¬es, particularly of the church of Scotland, whereofI am a member and minifter. I do bear my witnefs >and telliirony to the doctrine, worlhip, difcipline, and j.government of the church of Scotland, by kirk-fef-fions. prefbyteries, fynods, and general affemblies ; ;popery and prelacy, and all the trumpery of fervice ■and ceremonies, that wait upon them, I do abhor. IdoIUPON THE SC AFFOLD. 23iear my witnefs unto the national covenant of Scot-, and folenm-league and covenant betwixt the threefdonvs of Scotland, England, and Ireland ; thefeed, folemn, public oaths of God, I believe cannotoofed, nor difpenfed with, by any perfon, or par-or power upon earth ; but are ftill binding upone kingdoms, and will be for ever hereafter; andrati tied and fealed by the converfion of many thou-l fouls, fince our entering thereunto, I bear myiefs to the proteftation againft the contravened af-blies, and ti»e public refolutions, to the tellimonie*:n againft the fe&aries, againft the conrfe of back¬ing and defe&ion that is now on foot in the land,I all the branches and parts thereof, under whatfo-1 name, or notion, or afted by whatfoever party,lerfon- And in the laft place, I bear my witnefspe crofs of jefus Chrift, and that T never badcatife,nave caufe this day to repent, becaufe of any thingive fuffered, or can now fuffer for his name: lji God to record upon my foul, I would not ex-jge this fcaffold with the palace or mitre of theii|eft prelate in Britain, Rleffed be (iod, who,[(hewed mercy to fucii a wretch, and bath reveal-1 s Son in me, and hath made me a minifter of theifting gofpel, and that he hath deigned, in the,( of fuch contradi&ion* from Satan and the world,il my miniftry upon the hearts of not a few of hisi e and efpeciatly in the ftation wherein l was laft,tan the congregation and prefbytery of Stirling ;hope the Lord will vifit that congregation andfiery once more, with faithful paftors. God for-iie poor empty man, that did there intrude uponincurs, and hath made a prey of many poor fouls,ttpofed others to reproach and oppreffion, and a.« of the word of the Lord. God forgive the■ lers of that part of the poor people, who tempt-m to rejeft their own paftor, and to admit ofirrs; and the Father of mercies pity that poor'.1 people; and the Lord vifit the congregationlelbytery of Stirling once more with faithfulpaftors,24 Mr. GUTHRIE’S LAST, See.pallors, and grant that the work and people of Got,may be revived through all Britain, and over ail :*ujworld. Jefus Chrift is my light, and my lire, mjj!righteoufnefs, my ftrength, and my falvation, and aimy defire : him, O him, I do with all the ilrength 0my foul commend unto you: ‘ Bleffed are they thal‘ are not offended in him : bleffed are they that trul‘ in him. Blefs him, O my foul, from hencefortbj‘ even for ever. Rejoice, rejoice, all ye that love hin‘ be patient, and rejoice in tribulation : blefi'ed at‘ you, and bleffed (hall you be for ever and ever; eve‘ lading rightecufnefs and eternal falvation is your*‘ all is yours, and ye arc Chrid’s and Chriil is God’‘ Remember me, O Lord, with the favour thou bea4 eft to thy people; O vifit me with thy falvation, tb* I may fee the good of thy chofen, that 1 may rejoi* in the good of thy nation, that I may glory tfi‘ thine inheritance. Now, let thy fervant depart 3‘ peace, ftnee mine eyes have feen thy falvation.’ iGLASGOW,.Printed by J. 5c M. Robertfoo, [No. iS.j Saltw^