DOMESTIC ECONOMY; *OR,RECIPE BOOKJfrI /JpCONTAINING/ I!« w iiimHi h ij id i iii;‘jldr.Ji'. no asiilolo •. '■} vj.A NUMBER OF USEFUL RECIPES,COMPILED FROM VALUABLEPRIVATE MANUSCRIPTS ^. riJ HMmEXPENSIVE WORKS OF EMINENT MEN.AXuinlBY P. CARRUTH,CHIROPEDIST.Mo 9>y.oinn°r1 ]T(l5Ut*U) iu:.g^:PRINTED BY ROBERT MENZIES,UK*so SI20 BANK STREET.*^/1/0/033 )lT^'lia e c i p £ a o o a.To Clean Black Cltdhes.Rrash the dust well out of the clothes—remove thegrease from the collar with a brush, warm water, andsoap, then boil one ounce of logwood in a quart of,water, add a bit of bluestone about the size of a horsebean, lay the clothes on atableand brush them well w ith ?JUtilltheyare wet; let them dry, then brush them atainwith hot water, on the surface of which, put a few ,drops of olive oil, fcare must be taken not to put too,much oil on the water at once; when wasted, add a fewdrops more. This operation must be done uniformlyand in direction of the nap or grain of the cloth, hangthem to dry, and they will be a beautiful black, parti-'eularly if the nap is not wore off’.^ ./.St/, THIHIKI do 82HOW SVIBMSdXaTo Clean Blue Clothes*Pound some indigo and dissolve it in a little sulphu¬ric acid when properly melted, dilute it with eighttimes its weight of water : add to it a small piece of ^soda ; give the clothes a good brushing with this liquid,'finishing as directed for Black Clothes. 4, To Clean Drqb Clothes.Take pearl ashes 7 oz. quick lime 12 oz mix themtogether with boiling water, then pour upon the mix-'ture 7 quarts of cold water ; stir it up and let it stand£71'3i'l ' ;‘01 9Cl t. *24 hours; strain off the dear, and use it with a brush,I Riot water, and nw0T B 10,q ; rwollot is*!)i/d na llfiri bi^hod nsd v7 o take out Pitch, JVax Rosin, or Tar.If any of these happen to be on a garment, pour ar,little oil of turpentine on it, let it soak for an hour ori two, then it will crumble out like dry dirt by rubbiugj t betw een the fingers.•ts/How to Remove Fiies from Rooms.: 11 Take two oz of quazzie chips boiled in half a pintf water, and half an ounce of sugar. Mix them well) logefher, and place them in the room on a plate wherehe flies are troublesome, and they will soon disappear.Paste for Sharpewng Razors.Take oxide of tin levigated, vulgarly termed pre-Iiared putty one ounce, sathrated solution of oxalic acid,( sufficient quantity to form a paste. This composition(! to be rubbed over the strop, and when dry a littlestater may be added. The axalic acid having a greatAttachment for iron, a little friction with this powder.dves a fine edge to the razor.How to take Ink out of Mahogany.1 Dilute half a tea spoonful of oil of vitriol with a largechoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather;atch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a whiteM ark, It is therefore better to rub it quick, and re¬hat it if not removed.i ‘>r itipping Black Silks when i/tey appear rusty, or thecolour Jaded.a For a silk dress, your ow n discretion must be used.,4>whether the silk can be roused, or whether it requiresto be re-dyed. Should it require re-dying, this is done jas follows: — For a gown, boil 2 ounces of logwood,!when boiled half an hour, put in your silk, and simmerit half an hour, then take it out and add a piece of blue;vitriol as big as a pea, and a piece of green copperasas big as the half of a horse bean ; when these are dis¬solved, cool down the copper with cold water, andput in your silk and simmer half an hour, handling it;over with a stick; wash and dry it in the air.Lii’fu Blue Silk.Your silk being boiled in white soap and water, andmade quite white, must be rinsed in warm water .- thentake a vessel of sufficient size to wash your goods in;pour into this some cold water, sufficient to cover yourarticles to the depth of two or three inches. Theirdrop from a cheque blue bottle one or two drop*; iithe shade is to be azure or pale blue, these will suffice;but for a darker shade, more must be used. Put in youiarticles, and handle them from ten minutes to half aihour, as the shade requires.Violet, Pansy, and colours bordering on Purple.Purples are made by giving them a first shade ablue, more or less full as you would have the shadibto be, into blood-warm water, pour a quantity of archii ,from half a pint to a pint and a half; and when tliil,liquor is almost scalding hot, put in your goods anij.handle them well; and by simmering them an houpor thereabouts you will have a pretty fine violet, cij,pansy, more or less full, according to the quantitjpof archil used; but if the colour requires to be (jlarlf^UWKilllll, ed, add barriljd, alkaline lye,iOr potash> which will■ us'M'b 8M*1 .ri’sdi ri>.C'W'r»ib .‘JOijp) d M 79l!i IS  liUliLi/' ' C ’■ '•'» "To make a Bright Red with the same Ingredients.I nstead of adding pearl ash to your liquor, take outur goods, and put in halt a wine glass of the solutionitin—stir it up, put your goods in again, and boilfcm half an hour ; take them out again and add half)irit more archil, and as much more of the solutioni tin ; put in your goods again, and boil them t'or tew] nutes; take them out, and rinse in cold water.H! ; so v rfwwwj m ,pn£g 0MHy**k 10 ■<'«*> *A pretty Hair Brown. '■ f oo «t !lf the article to be dyed is a silk pelisse, fill yourt oper full of rain water ; when it boils put in a quartera pound of chipped fustic, two ounces of madder,ounce of sumach, and half an ounce of camwood,if not required to be scoured, the camwood mayr iomitted. These should boil half an hour, but they1 y not boil two hours, that the ingredients may hei 11 incorporated, and which should be the Case withfjipwns and all colours where two or three are mixedl:i,ether. The copper must then be cooled down byt aring in cold water; the goods may then be putit and simmered gently from half an hour to an hour,ijthis colour should seem to want darkening or sad-sijning, it may be done by taking out your goods, thenng a small quantity ot old black liquor, or, for wantblack liquor, a small piece of green copperas mayused; rinse in two or three waters, then hang up>7- .oid/ns mu3 9<uo4 bavlcenb iimilhic! u:vlrThe French way of dying Yellow Silk.First, alum your silks half an hour in cold aluliquor, then wash them. Pass them through a pan ■-weld liquor, at a hard heat. If they are to be oflemon yellow, dissolve a trifling quantity of blue vitriii* your pan to the colour required.Sympathetic Ink.Dissolve bismuth ih nitrous acid : when thewith this fluid is exposed to the vapour of livephur, it will become quite black.Black Ink.l ake of Aleppo galls, in coarse powder. 8 oz; loiwood in thin chips, 4 oz ; copperas 4 oz; gum arahfinely powdered, 3 oz ; blue vitriol, 1 oz.; sugar cand i1 oz. Boil the galls and logwood together in twel ipints of rain water for one hour ; strain the decor tic :and then add the other ingredients ; stir the mixtui!until the whole be dissolved, more especially theguiand then let it subside for twenty-four hours; last]decant the ink very steadily, and cork it in stone b* ilie^fpr .UK,;, .jf/bbiorie ihuhi bun .bobsioqt 'i j|$ -fo ov i 11 rtuoloa Ha buRed Ink.Boil an ounce of fine Brazil wood (in the chips) aihalf a pint of water, and add three drachms of gujarable, with half an ounce of alum.,toii Blue Ink.Dissolve a small quantity of indigo in a little oil Ivitriol, then add a sufficient quantity of watef, in whiiis dissolved some gum arabic.7Permanent Ink for Marking Linen.Dissolve a drachm of lunar caustic in three drachmsI of distilled rain water, then add half a drachm of gum| arabic, with which write with a clean pen upon thelinen, prepared as follows:—Dissolve half an ounce ofsoda in an ounce of water, adding twenty grains of gumarabic, which is to be kept in a separate bottle ; mois¬ten the part of the linen you wish to write on with thisliquid, dry it before a gentle fire, then write as beforeli directed. The writing when exposed to the sun be-i comes black.| the sublimate is dissolved; then add half a pint ofspirits of turpentine This is an effectual destroyer ofbugs ; but, being a strong poison, great care should betaken in using it.Give them the root of black hcllibore, which growsin marshes, and may be had from the country people;strew it over the floor at night, and next morning youwill find all the family of cockroaches dead or dyingfromhavingeatenof it, whichtheydo with much avidity.Take of Chio turpentine 8 oz. melt it over a veryslow fire, and add 1 lb. of powdered gum amber, keepon the fire half an hour, then take it off, and add 2 oz.J of white resin while quite warm, and 1 lb- of hot lin-Isecd oil. When cold, strain, and it w ill be ready forJ.,Mixture for Destroying Bugs.Take of corrosive sublimate 2 drachms, spirits ofwine 8 oz.; rub them well together in a mortar untilHorv to kid Cockroaches.Amber Varnish.sWhen water is atJded to the! chloride of lime, one}half of the chloride leaves the'' little, artd dissolves Inthe water ; and this is the bleadling liquid ofthe sftofiswhich is sold at a high rate, although it canhbt c6stmore than a farthing a gallon! Let not the chrijmess,however, suffer this liquid to be overlooked, as'ittpurifying properties are amqueStionable. ’ {1 91 ! !!^J|it .eiil sljns'a a etolsd Ji .biitpfiD(ix5 fr--;lw f'niti'i v oiiT .hriooiifaSilvering Copper. id ooaEqual parts of muriate of silver, common salt, andcream of tartar, form a composition ell calculated forsilvering the dial-plates of cloqks, the scales of baro¬meters, <^c. by simply rubbing the powder upon tbencand afterwards washing off the saline particles with.lHT “ qnitnom,: , .mSBnoiiJLa?ad b .jorts snr.o j;n»as ,no?ioq giiou? n gmaoTo Preserve Steel or Iron from RustTake 1 lb of hog’s lard free from salt, 1 oz. of cam¬phor, 2 drachms of black lead powdej\ and 2 drachmsof dragon's blond in fine powder, melt the same on aslew fire until it is dissolved, and let it cool for use.»rit vo It wstts?•jrit I!b bnh lliwiixsrt bucgntyb io liBsli oy Rais.Take a sponge and steep it Weil in fat. and then cutit in pieces, and lay them-in the rat-1 oles, and the ratswill soon be destroyed.VI V * • • :.o:- ‘.’d ' ■ !llhr ness Makers' Jet.Take 1 drachm of indigo, a quarter of an oz of isin¬glass, a quarter of an oz of son soap, 4 oz. of glue, apennyworth of logwood raspings, a quart of vinegar,and a small quantity of green vitriol; boil the wholepgethev over a slow fire till reduced to a pint ;• a. sma 1;uantity is then to be taken on a clean sponge, andainly applied to the harness, or boots or shoes, takingare that they are previously well brushed. This com-nosition saves an ocean of trouble to coachmen and(rooms. —  To Fumigate Foul Booms.To 1 tible spoonhrl )t‘ common salt with a littlepowdered manganese in a glass Clip, add at tour or fivelifferent times a quarter of a wine glass of strong vi-riolic acid. At every addition ot the acid, the vapourwill come in contact with the malignant miasmata,and destroy them.French Polish-Take 1 oz. each, mastic, sandarac, seed-lac, shell-lac,igum-lac, and gum arabic ; reduce them to powder, andadd a quarter ot an oz. virgin wax ; put the whole intoa bottle, with one quart of rectified spirit of wine ; letit stand 12 hours, and it will be fit for use.| To apply it, make a ball of cloth, and put on it oe-[casionally a little of the polish ; then wrap the ball ina piece of calico, when slightly touch with raw linseedoil: rub the furniture (pot) hard with a circular mo¬tion, until a gloss is produced finish in the samemanner, but instead of all polish, use one-tbird polishto two-thirds spirits of wine.■l [law •lotfw silt xim nsni ; tiaas aonuo 1 mas aiturta’* 1 *!" Spruce Beer.Take of water 16 gallons, and bod the half of it;]»ut the water thus boiled to the reserved cold part,which should be previously put into a barrel or othervessel; then add Iti lbs. molas-es, wiih a few spoon¬fuls of the essence of spruce, stirring the whote toge-JOtber ; add half a pint of yeast; Jteep it in a temperisituation, with the bung-hole open for two days,lermentation subsides ; close it up, or bottle it off, a*it will be fit for use in a few days.Instantaneous Ginger Beer.Mix a quarter a lb. of loaf sugar with an ounce ofcaibonated soda, and a quarter of an ounce of ground ginge‘|Put a tea spoonful of the above mixture and half a ttspoonful of tartaric acid, scented with essence of lemo)into a glass of water, and you have Ginger Beer inmoment.Lemonade.Made same as the above, only keep out the ginger.To Engrave on Copper, Brass, or Steel.Warm what you intend to engrave, and give it a thillcoat of hees’ wax, then write en it with a shaip instrulmenl that will penetrate the wax, and rub it over with tllittle nitric acid, and it will cut it the same as if ifbeen engraved.To make Good Shoe Blacking.Ivory black 1 lb. molasses 1 lb. sperm oil and sul¬phuric acid 1 ounce each ; then mix the whole well to¬gether, and form it into whatever shape you like.To Remove Ink Spots and Iron Mould from Linen, $c,Mix equal quantities of oxalic and tartaric acids, w et:the stains with water, and rub a little of the above on!it, and in a few minutes the spots will disappear.>3‘To make Furniture Paste.\felt equal quantities ot bees’ wax and oil of turpen-« together, you may colour it red by steeping a little:anet root in the turpentine, previous to melting thetx in it.  • 1 To Varnish Prints and Water Colour Draivinos.iBalsam of Canada 1 oz. oil of turpentine 2 oz.; sizedrawings' with isinglass jelly, take care not to distuibi colours; when dry, use the varnish, then they willk like Oil Paintings.To Engrave on Glass.Cover a bit of glass with a thin coat of bees’ wax, thenice a design on it with a sharp instrument, that will pe-irate to the glass, then mix some coarsely powderedir, spar, and sulphuric acid, in a basin, give it a gentleit, when acid fumes will be evolved, to which thelied suffice of the glass must be exposed for a minutetwo, taking care not to melt the wax ; the wax can beuoved by warming the glass and wiping it with towif a little oil'ol turpentine, when the lines will be foundgraved to a depth proportioned to the time of their ex*iuire to the acid fumes. Great care must be taken nothnhale any of the fumes for its poison.•x ni  To Cement Broken China and Glass.IVTix some finely powdered quick lime and the whitean egg well together, and anoint the edges of the bro-(i vessel, and clasp them together by a warm tire ; ifit hand be steady the fraeture will hardly be discerned.1 T - , ,  •frj:--- ,, . .)?kp To Stain l\ ood a Mahogany Colour.Take ‘2 oz. of dragon’s blood, break it in pieces, andj«(i ; f it'in a quart of rectified spirits of wine ; let the bottleJl *|’12stand in a warm place - siiake h frequently; when <!is-sclved, it ie tit* for use>To Slain IVood Black-Boil half a pound of chip logwood in 2 quarts of water;then add 1 oz. of pearl ash,, and apply it hot to the workwith a brush ; take half a pound of logwood, and boil itas before in 2 quarts of water, adding half an oz. of verdiJgrisj arid half an oz. of copperas ; strain it off and put igahotit half a lb- of rusty steel filings, and apply as before.!Toolh-Ache-Take of purified opium, two grains ; Camphire, ttv<grains, Oil of Cloves, two drops; Oil of Pepper, twcdrops. A pill to be put into the hollow tooth.To Make a Light in a Moment.Dip a piece of wood or paper in oil of turpentine, theijput a bit of chloride of potash on it, and a drop of vitriol.!and you will see the effect- 'i ^Cure for Coi ns imCarruth’s Vegetable Corn Plaster has been provedby the experience of thousands of the inhabitants ofEdinburgh, Glasgow, Paisley, Greenock, &c. to be thebest remedy now known for curing Corns, Bunions;and Warts, which it speedily eradicates without pain;or in the least injuring the surrounding skin. Pre¬pared only by P. Carruth, Chiropedist, and may behad in Rolls, price One Penny each, of Moffat & Co,Druggists, 53 Nicolson Street. Mr Cowan, Surgeon;30, and Mr Fairgrieve," Druggist, 46 Clerk StreotJEdinburgh; Mr Archibald, Surgeon, Kirkgate, andMr Finlayson, Druggist, corner of Tolbooth WyndJLeith, it i* ; *»•;