ANARRATIVEOP THEExtraordinary Adventure)OFFour Russian Sailors.'Who were cad awav on the DefertIflaiid of Eaft-Spitzbergen.To wliich is addl’d,IA Droll Story of a Fisherman.STIR. LING:Fnmed and Sold by C. RandilLACF THEExtraordinary AdventuresOFFOUR RUSSIAN SAILORS.Who were raft away cn the DcfertI Hand of Eaft-Spkzbergen.H E truth of theft adventuresis fufficftntly authenticated.When theft unfortunate tailors ftritarrived at Archangel, they were ex¬amined apart by Mr. Kiinftadt, ChiefAuditor of the Admirali ty of that city,who minuted down ah the particularswhich exadlly correfponded with eachaccount. Mr. Le Roy, ProfefTor ofJTiftory in the Imperial Academy,ibme time after ftnt for two of themen, viz. Alexis Kimkof, and Him-icof, his gcdfon, to Petersburgh, fromwhoft mouths he took the followingnarrative, which alfo agreed with Mr.KJinftadt’s minutes. The original waspublished in the German language, atTctcrfburgh, in the year 1769, andtranfinltted from tbcncs to the inge*i)Lous Mr. Banksj who, with Severalother Members of the Royal Society,were fo well plea fed with the accountthat they directed a trandation of it! to he made into Englilh.In the Year 1743, one JeremiahOkladmkoff, a met chant of Meden, atown in the province of Jugovia, andin the. government of Archangel, fit¬ted out a veil'd, carrying tq. men :1 She was' deiiined 'i’- r Sphzbergen, tobe employed in (he wh ile or leal itfh-try.- For eight fucce'iiive days afterthey had failed, the wind Was fair;but on the ninth it changed : fo that,tulkadof getting to the well of Snitz-bergen, the uliial place ot rendezvousfor the Dutch ihips, and thole of o-Ither nations annually employed in thewhale-fiihery. they'were driven tali-ward of thofe iilands ; and, after fomedays tliey found themfelves at a I’m allt diltance from one, of them, called Eali*iSfitzbcfgen ; by the RuiTims, Maloybroun ; that is, Little Broun. Hav¬ing a p nr cache i this il land within al-xuoli three wrtits, or two Erglilft»*>ikT, their \ciTcl was ihddcnly fur^4-reuiJlped by ice, and they found therr-1 elves in an extremely ciaugerou* ll *tuation. In this alarminir flate i coun¬cil was held; when the IV:are, Alexis.Himkof, informed them that he re*collcdded to have heard that fame ofthe people cf Mefen, fome time be¬fore, having formed a ref dir ion ofwintering upon tins idand, had accor¬dingly carried from that city tim¬ber proper for building a hut, andhad adlually eredit'd one at fome dif-lance from the ihcre.This infonnaticn induced the wholecompany to lefolve on wintering thereif the hut, as they hoped, ft ill exift-ed ; for they clearly perceived the im¬minent danger they were in, and thatthey mult inevitably pe.iih, if theycontinued in the fhip. They difpatch-cd therefore four of the crew, infearch of the hut, or any other fuc*vour they could meet with. Thefewere Alexis Himkof the mate ; IwanHimkof, his godfon ; Stephen Scha-rapef, and Feodor Weregin. As thefhore cn which they were to land wasuninhabited, it was neceffary that theyihould make fbme provifiou for their■J 'erudition. They had alinofl:miles to travel over loofc bridges otice, which, being railed by the waves,and driven againft each other by thewind, rendered rhe way equally diSi-ctiic and dangerous : Prudence there¬fore forbade their loading them (elvestoo much, left being o/f rburchened,they might fink in between the piecesof ice and nerilh.Having thus maturely confideredthe nature of their undertaking, theyprovided themfeives with a mufker, apowder horn, containing 12 chargescf powder, with as many balls, anaxe, a fmall kettle, a bag with about20 pounds of flour, a knife, a tinder-box and tinder, a bladder filled withtobacco, and eviry man his woodenpipe. Thus accoutred, thefe fourfillers quickly arrived on the idand,little fufpedtmg the misfortunes that■would befal them. They began withexploring the country ; and f jon dif°covered the hut they were in fearchof, about an tngiiih mile and haltfrom the (hare, ic was 36 feet inlength, 18 feet in-heighih, and asmany in breadth* it eontaiuc'd a itaali06?j)ti-chamber, about 12- feet broid,which had two doors, the cue to Ihutit from the outer air, the other tofori ' a communication with the innerroom : This contributed greatly tokofp the larger room warih, whenonce heated. In the large room wasan earthen Hove, conftrudled in theRuffian manner; that is, a kind ofoven, without a chimney, which fervesoccafonaliy cither for baking, forheating the room, or, as is cuftomaryamong the Ruff an peaftnts, in very•old weather, tor a place to fleep upon;They rejoiced greatly at having dif-ccv-ered the Lot, which had howeveriuffered much from the v/eather, ithaving now been built a. conliden bletime : Our adventurers, however, con¬trived -to pafs the night in it. Earlynext morning they haflened to thelliore, impatient to inform their com¬rades of their fuccefs • and alfo toprocure from their veil cl fuhh provi-iion», amunition, and other necel-ianes, as might better enable them to■winter on the iiland.— I leave myreaders to figure t» them ft Ives the af-topilhaKiit aud agony or miad theiefpoor people mult have felt, when ^n,reaching the place of their iandirtg,they {aw nouilng hut an open fea»free from the ice, which but a daybefore, had cohered the ocean. A vio¬lent ftorm, which had arifen duringthe night, had certainly been the1icaufe of th'!s difaflrous event.But they could not tell whether theice which had before hemmed in thevcflel, agitated by the violence of thewaves, had been driven again(l her,and Hi?,tiered her to pieces; or whe¬ther Ihe had been carried by the cur¬rent into the main, a circumllancewhich frequently happens in thofefeas. Whatever accident had befallenthe fhip, they faw her no more ; andas no tidings were ever afterwards re¬ceived of her, ic is molt probable that! ilie funk, and that ail on board of her.; perifhed,IThis melancholy event deprivingthe unhappy wretches of all hope ofever being able to quit the Blandthey returned to the hut from whenc! they had come, full ef horror and del-; pair. Their dir 11 attention was cm-! ployed, as may cafily b; iaiaginedj in%8ucvlap^ meics of pfo.vldsfig {itfibft*crce. aarf tor repairing their hut. Thet'.''ehTe charges of powder, which theyhad brought with their., fjon pro¬cured them as many rein-deer; theiuand iorunatehy for them, abound¬ing hi thtfe animals.I Kave bef ore obferved, that the huewhich the fdiois were fo fortunate asto find, had fultained fomc damage,and k was this : there were cracks inmany places between the boards cfthe inulding, which freely admittedthe air. This inconyenit ucy was how¬ever eafdy remedied, as they had artase, and the beams wcie dill found,{for wood in thole cold climates con¬tinues through a length of years, un¬ity pain'd by worms or decay.) fo ic wasealy for them to make the boards join?gain very tolerably; b; fifes, mofsgrowing in great abundance ad overthe illand, there was more than fufR-cient ro ftop up the crevices, whichwooden hcuhs mutl always be liableto. Repairs of tins kind coit the un¬happy men tire lehv trouble, as theywere Rufiians ; for ail Ruffian pe i-f guts art? know a to be good carperlets': they bull i their own tiouCis,land are ferv expert irt handling thea axe 'i'lte-inj-etii-4 cokh which makesthole climates haUitable to fj iewfpecies or aniinals, readers them equal-i ly unlit far the pr xluciion of vegeta¬ble. No fpecies of tree, or even fhrub,is found on any of the iHand 5 of Spitz-j beige a; a circu nuance of the moltijalanning nature to our fiilors. With¬out lire it was impoflihle to refill therigour of the climate ; and, withoutwood, how was that lire to be pro¬duced, or liippbrted ? Providence,i however, has io ordered it, that, iathis particular, the fea fupnlies thedel efts of the land, la wandering a-long the beach, they cob-tcled plentyof wood, which had been driven alb arcby the waves ; and which at iirlt con-! Idled of the wrecks of ihips, and af¬ter waitis of whole trees with theirroots, the procure of iocne more hof*pitabie. but to them unknown clim¬ate, which the overflowing of rivers,or ouicr acements, .iad. lent into theocean.Nothing proved of more eflentialftrvice to ciicie unfortunate men, dur-IOing the firft year of their exile, thanfeme boards they found upon thebeach, having a long iron hook, femenails of about five or fix inches long;,and proponionably thick, and otherbits of old iron fixed in them ; themelancholy relics ot feme vdTJs call:away in feme remote parts. Thefewere thrown allicre by the waves at alime when the want of powder gaveour men reafbn to apprehend that theynvuit fall a prey to hunger, as theyLad i early confirmed thole rein-deerthey hftd killed. This lucky circum-itance was attended with anotherequally fortunate j they found onthe fhorc, th^root of a fir-tree, whichnearly approached the figure of abow.As neceflity has ever been the mc-thei cf invention, fo they loon falh-ioned this root to a good bew, by thehelp of a kt be ; but full they want¬ed a ftrii ai.u arrows. Not knowinghow to procure thele at pro lent, theyreft- . ed upon mch.ing a couple of lan¬cer, to del etui thernfelvcs againft thewhite bears, by far the U;oft ferociousof their kind, whole attacks tQey had.11;g gre^t reafon to dread* Finding they3 coukJ neither make the heads or theirj lances, nor oftoeir arrows, withoutthe help ol a hammer, they contrivedto form the lar?e iron hook mention-ed above into one, by heating it, andwidening a hole it happened,,to nave'about its middle, with the help of oneof tlfeir large ft nails. This received:( the handle and a round button at one #j end of the hook fcrved for the face of:r the hammer. A iairge pebble (applied31 the place of an anvil, and a couple ofi rein-deer’s horns made the tongs. By31 the.means of filch, tools, they madel two heads of fpeane ; and after po-I lil iing and fharpening them on (denes,f they tied them as fad .as pjfTi'ole with3j thongs made of rem-deer iktns, toi (ticks about the thicknefs of a man’st arm, which they got from fomedl branches of trees that had been caft■ l| on ihore: rhus equipped with (pearsi they refoived to attack a white bear ;;■ and, after a molt dangerous en«counter, they killed the formidable1 creature, and thereby made a new! (apply of provihons. The iieth of■ this animal they reikhtd excetjuiugly,12as they thought it much refeiub]edbeef in tahc ar:d fliv.cur. The tendonsthey faw with much pleafnre could,with little or no trouble, be dividedinto filaments, of what fmenefs theythought hr. This perhaps was tiiemolt fcrtun&te difeovery thefe mencould have made; for, befides otheraevanuges, they were hereby 1 umifli*cd with ilrii gs for their bow.The fuccefs ot our unfortunate ifl-anders in making the Ipears, and theufe they proved of, encouraged themto proceed, and to forge foine piecesof iron into heads or a:rows ot thefame fhape, though home what (mailerin fize than the Iperrs above mention¬ed. Having ground and iharpenedthefe like the ion: tr, they tied them,v/ith the hnews of the white bean, top'eces of hr; to which, by the helpoffice threads,, of the fame, they fat¬tened feathers of a lea fowl ; ana thusbecame polk fit d or a ce-mpkat bow, and aj rows. TJteir ingenuity in thisrcfpcdl, was crowned vvitii luccefs farbeyond their expectation j for during' lire lime of their < cntii.uance v poii tneiflanci, they, with tl.cle arrows, kit-I led no lefs than two hundred sno. u—i ty rein-citer, belides a. great number1 of blue and white foxes. The fl-dhof thefe animals ierved them alfo for;ij food, and their fkins for clo tning,and other ntcefi^ry prefervatives a.ij gainfl the inter.fe coldnefs or a,climatefo -near the pole.They kh'eJ,. however, only teni.| white bears in all, and that not Willi*j| out theutmofl danger ; for thole am-iil mals, being prcdigiouQy urong, tie-fending themfe-lves witii aftorulhingvigour and fury. The fir ft our menattacked ddignedly ; the other ninetT^y flew in defending thcmielves hourtheir aflaults j for ionic ot thtte c rea¬tures evetji ventured to enter the outerloom of the hut, in order to c.cvcarthem. It is true, that all the be tsdid nor fhtw (if it may be aliovved theexprdlion) equal intrepidity ; eithorowing to fbn.e being lets prefled byhunger, or to their being by naturelels carnivorous than the others ; forbine of them, which entered thelot, immediately betook themitnvvSt* flight on the ft;it att n.pt ot thehiicrt, to eiiiv.t in cm away. A repe-14 > -tirion, however^ of rhefe ferocious ar*tacks, t'<rew the poor men into greatterror and anxiety, as they were inalrr-ofl, a perpetual danger of beingdevoured. The three different kihdfiof ar n.^Is above u».:nnone.d, viz. therein deer, the biue and white foxes,and the white bears, were the onlyvfcod thefe wretched mariners tailedduring their continuance in this drea¬ry abode.In their cxcurfions through the ifl-ard, they had met with 11 my loam,or a kind of clay, nearly in the mid¬dle of ir. Out of this they foundmeans to form an utenfil which mightferve for a laf p; and they propoiedto keep it conftantly burning, withthe f«t o’ the animals tfiey ihouid kill.r> his was certainly the mod rationalfcheme they could have thought of,f or to be without a light, ux a climatewhere, during winter, dartoeis reignsfor ieveral months together, woulc’lhave added much to their other cai>IImities. Having therefore tafliioneda jlkn d of lamp, they filled ic with ren-Jjdter’s fat, and flock in it feme ta: -J|ted linen, ihaped into a wick. Ithey h?.d the neunification to find,that as loon as the fat merited, it notonly foaked into the clay, but fairlyran though it on all fide^. The thingtherefore was te devife feme mcallsfor preventing tins inconveaiency,not arifing from crack?,- but ft mn thefubjiance of winch the lamp was made; being too porous. They made there¬fore a new one, dried it thoroughlyin the air, then heated it i ed-hot, andf afterwards quenched it in their kettle,whert.n they had boiled a quantityof flour down to the confidence of thinftarch. The lamp being thus driedand filled with melted fat, they nowfound, to their great joy, it did notleak. But for greater fecuriry* theydipped linen, rags in thur palte, andv^ith them covered all its ouUtae. -Suc¬ceeding in this .attempt, they imme¬diately made another lamp, for fearof an accident, that in ail events theymight not be deftitutc of light ; andwhen they had done io muen, theythought proper to lave t'*e remin¬der of their flour for fuuiiar purpo-fes. As they had carcmily c .heeledwhatever happened to be cait on ihoie.i6to fupr'r tl'cm with fuel, they hn.If'und rttr,ongft the wrecks of vciielsloire cordage^ a- d a intall quantityoftakith), (a kind of hemp uied forcalking iiiips) which lerved them tomake wicks for their lump. Whenthele ftcre? began to fail, their Ihirtaand the r drawers (v«hich are worn byahooff all Ruffian peafants) were em-pioyrdi to make good the dfeiiciency.By thefc means they kept their lampLuinibg with; u: intermilTlon, lro:iithe day they fir ft made it (a work theylet about ikon after their arrival onthe iflanc!) until that of their embark¬ation for their native country.1 he neceflity of converting the moft(flential parts of their clothing, inchv.s their ihirts and drawers to the uieabove fneciticd, expolbd them ‘themore to the rigour of the climate.They ail'o found themfelves in wantof fhocs, boors, and other articles ofdrels ; and,' as v^inter was approach¬ing, they were again obliged to haverecotirfe to that ingenuity whici*. ne-ceiilty futTf.eits, and which feldornfails in the trying hour of diftrefs.They had fkjns of rgin cieer and*7foxes ia p1eaty» th.i; ha! hirhertaferved them for bedding, a ad whichthey now thought of employing i i: foaie more eiTential fervtce ; but thei queOion was, how to tan them. \f-t tfer deliberating on this lubjccl, theyi took to the following method : they| foaked the ikins for feveral days inI f-rt ill water, till they could pull oir thel hair pretty eahly ; they then ruobedj the wet leather with their hands tdli: it was nearly dry- when they fpreadI: forne melted rein deer fat over it, andj: again rubbed it wed By this procefs■| the leather became fofc, pliant andIfuple, proper for arifwerlng every pur-pofe they wanted it for. Too fa be inswhich they dehgned for furs they on¬ly foaked for one day, to p re pair themfor being wrought, and then, pro¬ceeded in the mincer before mention¬ed, except only thet they did no: re¬move the half. Thus they (bon pro¬vided their;hives with the necefihrymaterials for ail the parts of dr, fs theywantpd.They made a curious needle cut ofi a piece cf wire ; and the fmews of thdJbe.ir and reui-decr, widch they fpht18into feveral threads, ferved them tofew with.Jixcepttng the uneafnefs which gen¬erally accompanies an involuntary fo-litnde, thefe people, having thus bytheir ingenuity fb far overcome theirwants, might have had rcafon to becontented with what Providence hadclone for them in their difirefsfui fitu-ation. But that melancholy reflec¬tion, to which each of thefe forlornperfbns could not help giving w;;v,that perhaps he might furvive hiscompanions, and then perifh for wantof fubfrftence, or beccc'e a prey tothe wild beafrs, iiicefTantly dillurbedtheir minds. The mate, Alexis Him-hof, more particulary fuTered ; who,having left a wife and three childrenbehind, forely repined at his beingilperatcd from them: they were ashe told me, confbintly in his mind,and the thought of never more feeingthem made him very unhappy.When our four mariners had pallednearly fix years in this Gifinal place,Feodor Wert gin, who all along hadbeen in a languid condition, died, alterhaving in die latter part of his life,differed mod excruciatin'? pains. T*10:'T - i I*ihey were thus freed rro.n the troUOiebf attending him, and the grief:)eing witneffes to his mifery, wi-11**juc being able to afford him any re*ief, yet his death afFedled them noti little ; they law their number hi-ifened, and every one wlflied to be the"jir(l that fhould follow him. Ashe'ilied in winter, they dug a grave mnjhe fnow as deep as they could, inliphich they laid the corpfe, and thenCovered it to the heft of their power,that the white bears might not get atat*Now, at the time when, the xaelan-jcholy reflections occaixoned by thedeath of their comrade were frefli in|:heir minds, and when each expected{o pay this lafl duty to the remainingompanio ,3 of Ins misfortunes, or toeceive it from them, they unexpected-■ y got nght of a Rnfliaji ihip. Thisjpappened on the 15th of Aiiwutt 1749-j The vTfel belonging to a trad r, ofthe febi called by its adherent? Star adVieva, that is, the Old Faith whohad come with it to Archangel, pro*poling it Ihould winter in Nova Z'ein-20hh : Lufj fort-aaatei’/ for our poorexiles, Vlr. Vernezobre, Director ot'the whale-fishery, propofol to themerchant to let his vdlel winter atWed-Spitsbergen ; which he at lad,aher many objeclions agreed to.d he contrary winds they met withon their palfige, made it impnfliblefor them to reach the place of theirtieAination. The veffel was driven to¬wards Raft-Spi;zbergen, diredlly op-pjolite to the refidence obour mariners;who, as foon as they perceived her,ha&ened to light fires upon the hillsreared their habitations, and then ranto the beach, waving a Hag, made ofa rein-deer’s hide, fallemd to a pole.The people on board, leeing thtfe fig-nals, concluded that there were menon the illand who implored their affif-tance, and therefore came to an an*chor near the 11k re. It would be invain, to attempt (If icribing the joy ofthefe people- as feeing the moment oftheir ddiverarce ib near, They loonagreed with the mailer of the {hip towork for him on the voyage, and topay him eighty rube’s on their arri¬val, for taking them on board, with2 I"all their richeswhich conufied ia fif-ity pud or two tuoufdii 1 pound weightinf rein-deer fat, in many hides ofthere»animals, ?# id Ikins of die blueand white foxes, together wdth thoreof the ten white bears they had killed.They took care not to forget their bowand arrows, their fpears, their knifeand axe, which were ahnoft worn out,their awls, and u eir needles, whichthey kept carefully in a bone box,ytry ingerdoufly made with their knifeonly ; and in ihorc, every thing theywere pofl^fldd of.Our adventurers arrived fife atArchangel on the 28th of September,1749, having fpent fix years and threemonths in th-hr rueful iblitadc.The moment ci their loading wasjjmearly proving fatal to the loving andI beloved wife of Alexis Himkor, who,j being prefsnt when the veifei came in-Jto port, immediately knew her huf-[ibanc, and fan with io much cager-mefs to his embraces, that ihe dippedlinto.the water, and very narrowly el-|captd being drowned.All three, on their arrival, wereifirong and healthy ; but, having liv-nec! fo long1 without: brctid, they couldnot reconcile themfelvcs to the ufe ofit, and complained that it filled themwith wind. Nor couhi they bear anyipirituous liquors, anti therefore dranknothiug but water.Droll Story of a Fifiierman.T'HE Marquis Della Scalas, in I-taiy, once invited the neighbour¬ing gentry to a grand entertainment,and all the delicacies of the iealbnyjere accordingly pr vided. Some ofthe company had already arrived, morder to pay their very early ref peelsto his excellency ; when the major-domo, all in a finny, came into thedining-room: ‘My Lord, hud he, hereis a mod. wonderful fisherman below,who has Drought one of the fine ft riihI believe in all Laly ; but then he de¬mands fuch a price fbr it ! Regard notthe price, (cried the marquis.) pay it]pm down dueclly.’ ‘ So I would,eafe your highnefs, bat tee refules to1 take money ’ ‘ Why, what wouldtothe fellow have r’ ‘ A hundi ed lirok.esottheftrappado on the bare Ihoultlcrs,r * * *rimy lord ; he fnvs he will not b^ite ofI a fingle blow,— Here they all ran down;to have a vkw of this rarity of a fiiTi-crman, 4 A fine iifli ! cried the mar-tjuis: ‘What is your seruanch myfriend? You fliaU be paid on the in-funt. * No: a quatriui, my lord ; Iv.dil not take money: if you wouldhave my fiih, you mull: -order me aloo lafhes cf the Itrapaddo upon n?yJ naked back ; if not I 111 all go and ap¬ply eifewhete.’ * Rather than iofe yourifini,' fays his highnefs, ‘ let the fe.dow,;have his humour.’—‘ Here! (he criedto one of his grooms) ciieharge thisi hondl man’s cemand 5 but cionk layon over hard ; don’t hurt the poorDevil very much.’ The liiherxnanthan dripped, and the groom prepar¬ed to put his lord’s orders in. execu¬tion. 4 Now, my friend,’ died the, fishmonger, ‘ keep good account, ibefecch you, for I am not covetous ofja fingle flroke beyond my due.’ Theyall Rood fufpending iu amaze, whilethis operation was carrying on. Atlength, on the infiant that the exe¬cutioner had given the fiftieth lath,‘ Hold f cried the filhermaq, ‘ I have24already received my fu.'i flrare of the pTice.,,‘ Your (hare !* queuic.necL>hs marquis :‘ WhVt can yen mean by vhu.t r! ; Yvay, my jlord, you mult know (have a partner in this Ibufmels , my honour ;s engaged to Jet h'tnhave the halt cf whatev . r I fiiall get : and I jfancy that your highneis wi!I acknowledge 1by-end bv,that it would ben tboufand pities ,)to defraud him of a hngie fireke.* ‘ And |pray, my friend, who is this rame parmer tof yours?’ ‘ It is the porter, ruy lord, who |;guards the cuter gate of your highnefs’s pa¬lace : he refufed to admit me but on the con- -dition of promibag him tr e half of what Iuicutd get for the fdb * Oh ! Oh i ex¬claimed the marquis, breaking out into aJaugh, ‘ By the h/t.inn-g cf heaven he ihailhave liis demand doubled him in full tale/—Here the porter was lent for, and Grippedto the fk;n ; when two grooms bid upon himwith might and main, till they rendered himfu to be iafnted for a fecond Bartholomew.—The marquis then ordered his .major domo :to pay thehfmrmar. 20 ftquir.s, ana dehretlhir>' to call yearly for the like fum, in re*jecmpence for the friendly cilice he had ren.*;.dered him.F I N i S.