THEPROPHECIESOFTHOMAS RIMER,THE ANCIENT SCOTS PROPHET.WHEUELN 13 CONTAINEDREMARKS)n what has already c«tne to pass;Ijth some curious Observations onwhat is yet to come.BY THE FAMOUSMR. ALLAN BOYD, M. A.TO WHICH IS ADDED,An Account of the MemorablefATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN.Fought in the Y'ear 1314.EDINBURGH:‘HINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.18£Q.AN ACCOUNTOFSIR THOMAS LEARMONT.: Sir Thomas Learmokt, commonlyailed Thomas Rhymer, was born inic east coi ner of Fife, of a good fami-?. His prophecies have been moreredited tlian any that were ever re-orded in the Scots Chronicle, as they'ave been well attested, what of them> past, and what they allude to, in thisresent century and period, and of hisark sayings yet to come.He told many mystical propheciesneutall the kings of Europe, and whatell out according to his prediction, in .his ancient kingdom of Scotland, whats past, present, and to come.I This account is taken from the Re-i iords of Crvle, near which place hevas bom and brought up.His father was said to be Laird tBalcomie, and the Records of that fmily are extant among the,rolls, for theassisting at several councils for the h*nour of Scotland. And Sir ThomRhymer’s prophecies and sayings aistii? held, in esteem..He lived in the reign of AlexandIII, king of Scotland, in the yearmuch regarded, and knighted by theking that same year.The first of his prophecies ever taketo be faithfully observed, was, Thathere would be a storm on a cefl’taiday, that would surprise all ScotlancSome gentlemen being .with him thaday, they began to joke him, and saidSir Thomas, yon are now mistakenand we shall-stay and see your mistakeas we have b^rd so much of your prophecies. He told them to stay an houlonger, and they would see and believeIn an hour an .express came to Sir Thomas, from Edinburgh, of the. death oMargaret, queen of Alexander 111.On receiving the news, Sir Thomaijsaid, that this was the storm, and iwould give rise to greater commotion!iv Scotland.oAfter the death of Queen Margaret#■'the King married Isabel, daughter ofthe Earl ofDruix; and Sir Thomas toldwithin a few months of an earthquakeat Kinghorn, that would make Scotlandtremble. An express accordingly cameto Clyde to Sir Thomas, that the kinghad fell from his horse at Kingbom,and broke his neck. Alexander left noheir, except a grandchild, Margaret,1 daughter of the King of Norway. She,also, soon died. A short time beforei; her death, she was betrothed to Ed-' ward, King of England. After this,there were great commotions anent thesuccession of the crown of Scotland,which occasioned great bloodshed, par¬ticularly betwixt Bruce and Baliol,which are recorded in the Scottish his¬tory.The pride of Spain, and the deceitfulconduct of the French, as also concern¬ing the Dutch, was forc*>ld. Likewisethe battle of Torwood, Bothwel Bridge,Killicrankie, Sheriff-muir, Preston, Fal¬kirk, and Culloden.In forty-five, eighty-two, and three,Sir Thomas’ works do certiiy.GPROPHECIESOFTHOMAS RHYMER.As to his prophetical sayings, theyarc hard to be understood, because theyarc pointed out by the coats of armswhich appertain to so many differentkingdoms and persons. Yet we mayobserve how he has pointed out plainlymany things which have come to passin our days; such as the extirpation ofthe noble race of the Stuarts, the Re¬volution, Sheriff-muir, where lie says,thatThree ships and a shield,That day shall keep the field,And be the antelope’s build.These three ships and a shield, are inthe Duke of Argyll’s arms.Tlie rebellion, in 1745, was foretold.When pointing at it, lie says,A Chieftain unchosen,Shall choose forth himself,And rule the realm as his own.7When speaking of King Charles, he. alls him “ a sly fox-bird, that woiddi urn to Christ, with the wiles to toadsf ind foxes,” meaning his swearing othe covenants.1 When speaking of the battle of Pres*i onpans, in X'J't'S, he names the twoji neighbouring villages by the spot ot: 'round whereon it >*’as fought, Goyse-1 brd and Seton, sayiri'g* ‘between Seton.:jind the sea, sorrow’ shu'^ wrought bjh he light of the moon, * which rea Ivjcame to pass, that morn in'? *ie halt ehf Prestonpans wras fought. Put howitiie Lion was hurt at this time, notiperceived, is yet a mystery. So. nie aiClof opinion, that it was by taking .the power or superiority from the ch. tcl of the Highland clans, so that they cat ^not raise men in such a sho.rb-time asi| they did formerly.These are a few of the observationsI on things already come to pass; and.as■ to what is yet to come, there is someI remark will yet happen, when the timef draws nigh ; such as, “ When Tarbet’sCraigs are tumbled into the sea. Andthe next season or summer thereafter,'; great sorrow and bloodshed shall hap*^en to tins rcalnvthc* chief thereof, ejiecially sucl:' a$ hailing on sleds, aichopping off heads.” This Tarbstands near the root of the riv(dy.de; bat whether it being tumbleinto the sea shall happen hy an eartlquake, tlumder, or by tlie handsmen, is an unknown mvsterv.. There is also mention made ofLoi’4 with a lucken or dnb’e hanv.hieh certainly is of royal blood, an\\;i!! breyd great stir ami confusion iitBritain. This man is alive at thispresent age, and of the Stuart’s racenow ifi > Italy. There is plainly point¬ed out, that in ids time, a great bat-tie slioiVld be seen in Fife,’\Mher6 saddled horses^hould be seen.Tied unto the trees green. •Jn Fife, and on the four chief riv-of the realm, there would be akittle; that should make the riversrun with blood, 'via. Tweed, Clyde,’'Forth, ’■ami 'lay.—A Woody battle inNortlmmb'erhmif on the river Tyne.:Also, great baVdtyabout the walls ofBerwick-. Ail thbse!tilings are yet to -come to passg and when the first ap¬pears, the rest will soon follow alter.9;HI • OLDSCOTTISH PROPHEClks,f •- ' * • • •: ;v'-. </ . . ■ r.vi" ”* '• -*THOMAS RHYMER.r When Hempe is come, and gone,I Scotland and England shall be one.Henry Edward Marv Philip Elizabeth' VIII. VI..... V Spain.'il K M P EPraised be God alone, ■*For Hempe is come and gone.And lett.u.s oUi ^Albion,By peace joined in one.The explication of the foregoingprophecy, is fulfilled in the late Kingf William, who came fram Holland,which, in old times, was vulgarly cal¬led the land of Hempe, and' the join¬ing of the 'two nations signifies theLT . °.Jmon..Those things were dbretold by thetwo Scots prophets, in the reign ofKing- Arthur, by the famous Merling.Afterwards, these things were foretol! -■by Sir Thomas Learraont. He gavall his prophetical sayings in rhymeand so darkly, they could not be un|derstood until they came to pass.Of all the prophets that ever wenin Scotland, none had attained t«such credit as Sir Thomas Learmontbecause most of his predictions re|ferred to our own country, and wer«|accomplished in the last and present|©entury.THOMAS RHYMER’S; PROPHECIES,IN VERSE.£ i •Scotlanju, be now sad, and lament.Tor honour thou hast lost,JBut yet rejoice in better times.Which will repay the cost.X A] Though unto thraldom you should beBrought by your enemies.You shall have freedom from them all,And enjoy your liberties.! The grave of the most noble prince,To all is great regret,The subject to law, who had leave,The kingdom and estate.I, O anguish great! where every kind,And ages shall lament,1 Whom bitter death has ta’en away,Shall Scotland sore repent.I Lately a land of rich encrease,A nation stout and true,Has lost their former dear estate.Which they did hold of due.By hard conflict, and by the chanceOf noble fortune’s force,Thy hope and thy prosperity,May turn to the worse.Though wont to wen, may be subdu’d,And come in under yoke,Si r ngcrs may reign and destroy,What likes him by sword’s stroke.12A;foreign foe, whom neitlier they forceNor manners do approve,Woe is to thee by guilt and flight,Will only win above.This mighty nation was to fore.Invincible and stout,Tfill yield glowly to destiny,Great pity is but a doubt.In a former age, the Scots renown x.Did flourish goodly gaye.But now, alas! will be o’ereome,With a great dark decay.Then mark and see what is. the cause.Of this so wond’rous fall!Contempt of faith, falsehood, deceit.The wrath of God withal.Unsatiable greed of worldy gain,Oppression, cries of poor,A perpetual, slanderous race,No justice put in ure.The haughty pride of mighty men.Of former vice chief cause.The nutriure of wickedness.An unjust match of laws;1IS• Therefore, this cause the. prophetsOf long time did presage,And now has happen’d every point,Into your present age. ,: Since fate is so, now Scotland learnIn patience to abide.Slanderers, fear, and sudden plagues,And great dolors beside.'Out of thee shall people rise,! With divers happiness,iiAnd yet a pen can scarcely writeThy hurt, skaiih, and distress*.i And yet beware thou not distrust,Although o’erwhclryi’d with grief,iTIiy stroke is not perpetual.For thou shalt find relief.[ do suppose, although too late,i, Old prophecies shall holtljHope in God’s goodness evermore,. And mercies manifold.From high above shall grace come down.And thy state, Scotland, be,In laMer ends, more prosperous,No former age did see.Old prophecies foretel to theeA warlike heir—he’s bom—Who shall recover new your right.Advance this kingdom’s horn.Then shall fair Scotland be advanc’d 1Above her enemies power.Her cruel foes shall be dispersed,And scatter’d from her bow’r.Fair Scotia’s cn’mies may invade,But not escape a plague jWith sword, & thirst, & tears, & pest,!With fears, and such like ague.And after enemies are down,And master’d in a war,Then Scotland, in peace and quietness.Will pass joyful dap for ever.AN ACCOUNTOF THES EATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN.16AN ACCOUNTOF 'SHEBATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN.Edward II, of England, kept cpthe same claTm on Scotland, whichhis father had begun; and, after se¬veral unsuccessful attempts to esta- |blish it, he resolved to make a greateffort, and, with one blow, reducethat turbulent nation, which had putso many signal affronts on his fatherand himself.In the spring of 1314, he assem¬bled the most numerous army th^fhad, ever crossed the borders, com¬posed of different nations, and amount¬ing to above 100,000 effective men,,beside a huge multitude of attendants,w ho followed, in hopes of sharing in.the plunder of a conquered enemy.At the head of these, he marchednorthward with an uncommon parade,and ia full conmienee of victory.17Kobert Bruce, the son of that Ro¬il bert Bruce vviro held a conferencewith Wallace on the banks of the5 Carron, and grandson of him who. was competitor with Baliol, bad, in1306, been crowned King of Scot-I land; and being aware of Edward’sformidable preparations,, he raised ani army of 30,000 men to oppose him.I This armament bore but a small pro-| portion to that of Edward’s; but iti was composed of soldiers who werehardened by Jong practice of war.Kind who now carried upon the pointof their swords, liberty and honour,nnml every thing that was dear toItiiem. Vt itn these, Robert took upJjhis station in the neighbourhood offlStirling, and waited for Edward’s ar-•iirival.1 The two armies met, in the month|of dune. Soon after, a bloody Iti.tileijwas fcuglil, in which the Scots ob¬tained tiie most decisive victory in the| annals of Scotland.The English, having marched fromEdinburgh, encamped to the r.orth-ii«ard of Tore,''od. The Scoftish ar-(jiiy was posted about a mile south18from the present village of St. Ki-nians. On the summit of an emi¬nence, called Brock's Brae, is a stonesunk in the earth, with a hole in it,in which, according to tradition, Ro¬bert's standard was fixed. The smallriver of Bannockburn ran in a nar¬row valley between the two camps.The castle of Stirling was in thepossession of the English. EdwardBruce, the king’s brother, had, in thespring of 131 laid siege to it, butfound himself obliged to abandon theenterprise; and, by a treaty betweenthat prince and Moubray the gover¬nor, it was agreed, that jf the garri¬son received no relief from Englandbefore a year expired, it should sur¬render to the Scots.The day preceding the battle, astrong body of cavalry was detachedfrom the English camp, under theconduct of Lord Clifford, to the re¬lief of Stirling castle. The detach¬ment having marched through somehollow ground, had passed the Scotsarmy before they were observed. Theking himself was the fm-,i who per-cci. \i them;—he desired the Earl of19:Murray to look towards the placewhere they were. Randolph imme-. diately set out after them with a partyof 500 horse, -and coming up withthem in the plain, where the villageof Newhouse now stands, a smart ac¬tion ensued. King Robert, attendedby some of his officers, beheld thisi rencounter from a rising ground. Thedistress of Randolph being at lengthevident, Sir James Douglas asked leavebf the king to go to his support. Ro¬bert assenting, Douglas put his soi-iidiers in motion; observing, however,i on the way, that the victory was nighfibeing won without his assistance, heStopped. The English were entirelydefeated. Randolph returned to theliicamp, amidst acclamations of joy. ToIperpetuate the memory of the victory,'two stones were reared up in the field,(and are still to be seen.1 This victory gave new spirits to thehole army, and made them so eageror the general engagement, that thelight, though among the shortest ofdhe year, seemed long to them, it mgEdward, too, was determined to bringbn the battle on the morrow.20At length appeared the dawn of that Jimportant daa'. which was to decidewhether Scotland, was henceforth to be'an independent kingdom, or subject toa foreign yoke.—Early all was in mo¬tion in both armies; religious senti¬ments were mingled with the inilitaryrardor of the Scots. A solemn mass]!was said bv the Abbot of Inchaffery;|who also administered the sacrament to j)the king, and the great officers aboutfhim, while inferior jjriests did the sameto t!te rest of the army. After this,,they formed in order of battle, in atract of ground called Touchadanfc'I'liit situetion had been previously cho¬sen, because of its advantages. On thethe right, they had a range of steeprocks, tiow called Murr-y’^ Crags; intheir front, were the steep banks of therivulet of Bannockburn; not far behind)them, vat; a wood; on the left was'amorass:- but, as it ’was then the middleO'oi summer, it was almost dry. Kobert:had order d oils to be dug in this mo-j■fa3ntam:o them,arrai:oil)OiU-cr. d crow-fect.opened stakes to be (inventmd -the whole to be covered!• ■ greeti turf. lie also:hioujbout Bie jnor21rass. The same maneuvres were like¬wise carried on along the front of theleft wing. By means of these artifices,joined to the natural strength of theground, the Scots stood as within anentrenchment •, and the invisible pitsanswered to the concealed batteries ofmore modern times.Among the other occurrences of thismemorable day, historians mention anincident of a singular nature. As thetwo armies were about to engage, theabbot of Inchaffery, posting himself b>fore the Scots, with a crucifix in hishand, they all fell down on their kneesin act of devotion. The enemy, obser¬ving them in so uncommon a posture,concluded that they were frightenedinto submission. But they were soonundeceived, when they saw them rise,and stand to their anus, with steadycountenances.The English began the action by abrisk charge -on the left wing of theScots, commanded by Randolph-. A&i22large body of c,avalry advanced to at¬tack him in front; while another fetch¬ed a compass to fall on his flank andrear; but before they could come toa close engagement, they fell into thesnare that awaited them. The horseswere soon disabled by the sharp ironsrushing into their feet,—others tumb¬led into the concealed pits and coulduot disentangle themselves.In the beginning of the engage¬ment, an iltcident occurred, whichwas rendered imporrant by its conse¬quences. King Robert was mountedon horseback, carrying a battle-ax inhis hand, and on his helmet he worea turban, in the form of a crown.This rendered him very conspicuous,as he rode before the lines. An En¬glish knight, named Bohun, came gal¬lopping furiously up to him, in orderto engage with him in single combat—but the enterprising champion havingmissed bis blow', was instantly struckdead by Robert with the battle-ax. Sobold an attack on their king, filled theScots with sentiments of revenge ; and23the heroic achievement performed byhim, raised their spirits to the highestpitch.A singular occurrence, which is re¬presented as an accidental sally of pa-: iriotic enthusiasm, suddenly altered theace of affairs. The servants and at-endants of the Scottish army, amount-5 pg to 20,000, had been ordered, before: he battle, to retire behind Murray’s!>ag. Having arranged themselves inmartial form, they marched to the topf the hill, and, displaying their ban-• iers, moved towards the field of battle,b/ith hideous shouts. The English,nonceiving this motely crowd to be at resh reinforcement, advancing to sup¬port the Scots, were siezed with sorjreat a panic, that they began to giveway. The Scots pursued, and greatsir as the slaughter among the enemy,i Ling Edward himself escaped withmuch difficulty ; having been closelypursued, for above forty miles, by Sirnames Douglas, with a party of lighthorse. He was on the point of beingFidtea prisoner, when he was receivedinto the castle of Dunbar, and thenconveyed to England, in a small boat.—The Scots lost only 4,000 men, whilethe loss of the English amounted toabove SO,000,FINIS.