EJACULATIONSANDDying WordsOr THE LATE REVERENDMr. JOHN WILLISON,Minister of the Gospel,' at Dundee,^^Word^cnnsWife and Children.To his Wife.MY HEAR,MY didrefs calls me to think of parting with you,the will of the Lord be done. I thank you foryour tender care of me, may the Lord blefs and re¬ward you for it, and fantlify your own tendernefs,and fupport you under it. As you have ftudied tolive a life of faith and prayer all your days, fo I hopeand believe you will continue to the end. In all yourdifficulties and fears encourage yourfelf in the Lordyour God. Commit your way to him ; truft him thatis faithful an 1 true. I Yefign you, my dear, to theHusband of Hufbands, our deiireft Lord Jefus Chrift.To his Children.DEAR Children, your earthly father mull leaveyou, your heavenly Father is immortal. Ocleave fall to him. Trifle not about your foul’s con¬cerns in time of health ; mind thefe things as the onething needful ; this you will not repent of when youcome within a near vjew of death atfd eadlefs, eternity.O Sirs! prefs for clear views of yourjntereft in Chrift,the only furety and faviour of finoers. Among otherevidences of it, live by faith on him, and ftudy holirnefs in heart and life. Dear Sirs, think how you willbe able to Hand before Chrift your judge at the ladday, unlefs you have Chrifl’s image on you, and bemade new creatures. Lord make you all fuch, andblefs you with his bed bleffmg! My bleffing be uponyou all.—-—What means God gave me I have bedowred them on you, be kind and careful of your motherwhile you have her. And let none of you forget,that though I go before you all to the dud, you mudail quickly fellow me. O ! that we may all meettogether at the right hand of our blefled Ptedeemer,to fee his face, and fing hispraife. The time is near,be ye therefore alfo ready.Now,^my dear wife and children, remember whatis abovej as the words of your affe£lionate hulband,artd loving father, who being dead, yet hereby fpeak-eth to you for yourthey fink into yourSome of his DYING EJACULATIONS.OLet me fleep in Jefus! I would not live alwaysin this evil world, that has little in it tempting,and feems ftill to grow worfe, and where the torreiuof fin and backfliding feems to grow ftronger.I would defire to depart and be with Chrilt, wbLnis far better than to be here. I am willing rather, tobe abfent from the body, and prefent with the yard.Whom have I in heaven but thee, and there is, none,upon earth I defire befides thee; for tho’ my heart,ftrength and flefli fail, yet the Lord will be th' iirengthof my heart, and my portion for ever.Now, Lord, what wait 1 for, my hope ,3 in thee,I have waited for thy falvation, O Lord.G For Simeon’s frame, to be faying, ‘ Lord let-teft thou thy fervant depart in peace, for mine'eyeshave feen thy falvation.’When Chrift fays, furely I come quickly i may myfoul anfwer, Even fo come Lord Jefus.I am living on the rightecufnefs of Chrift, yea, dy¬ing in the Lord. Even fo come. 1 am detained hereupon the fiiore, waiting for a fair wind to.carry meover this Jordan. I have waited and will wait forthy falvati • O Lord. The Lord is a rock, and biswork isperletl: Lord, perfe£t what concemeth me.O that I could fay with Paul, The time of mydeparture is at hand. I have kept the faith, I haverun my race, I have finiihecj my cburfe j henceforthis laid up for me a crown of righteouinefs, whichthe righteous Lord will give me at his coming.I am vile and polluted, O how Iball I be cleanfed !But that is a comfortable promife, • The blood ofJefus Chrill his Son, cleanfcth us from all fih.’ Andfo is that, ‘ Though ye have lain among the pots, ye(hall be as doves, whofe wings are covered with fil-ver, and their feathers with yellow gold.’ *-ey, to fubmit to thr Lord’s wiil, tdaie like Mofes and Aaron, the one at mount Hor, andthe other at mount Abarim. They went up and dbdthere at the cortimand of the Lord., O that when my fldh and ttrength Fail, God maybe the ftrength of my heart, and my pprtion for everWhen now the keepers of the houfe do tremble, C)that God may be the keeper; \^hen the grinders ceafe,becaufe they are few, O that God would feed my foulth manna that will need none of thcfe employments;tv; ‘r'n the daughters of mufic are brought low, O to belitte ’ for the heavenly mafic above: when the look¬ers os, at the windows are darkened, O that my foulmay b; enlightened to fee Jefus day RedeemerLqi help the unbelief and infidelity of my heartyand help me to more of the faith of a rifen Jefus, ahafcehded Redeemer O let me beneve and feel thefwe'ctnefs of that word of Chrift, ‘ I afcend to myFather and your Father, and to your God and my God.’O how {hall fuch an unholy creature as. I prefumeto enter into fuch a pure and holy place ! But the a-poftle has taught us, we may have boldnefs to enterinto the holieli of all by the blood of jefus.O that when the time of my laft combat comesi.With my laft enemy Death, I may be helped aboveail to take the fhield of faith, whereby 1 may be re¬lieved from the fling of dea.h, and may quench thefiery darts of the wicked one /O that 1 may be helped to adore the fov*reignty ofGod, kifs his rod, anti humbly fubmit to it. Saveme from both extremities; let me never defpife thecha tening of the Lord, nor faint when I am rebukedof him.Now the prince of darknefs will ftudy to raifetempefls of temptation to fhipwreck the poor wea¬ther-beaten veilil of my foul, when it would enterinto the harbour of reft above; may Chi ill come tpbe pilot, fleer the helm, and it ftrail be fafe.O for more Faith ! may my faith ripen to a fullsfiuraareb, tnat I may' go off the ftage rejoicing, and< 5 5 ..n'that abundant entrance may be minitlered to me intothe kingdom of Our Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift.O for more faith, that I may die like Simeon whenhe had Chrift in his arms, faying, ‘ Now let thyfervant depart in peace, mine eyes have feen thy fal-vationLord, one fmile of thy countenance would baniftiaway all my doubts and fears, and make me fing inpain-Is my Redeemer gone to prepare a place For me ?why fhould I b’e flothiul to follow his footfteps, whenhe is faying, Come up. hither; come up, dwell here;come up, reigti here; come up, ling here.O Lord; deliver my foul from death, mine eyesfrotn tears, and my feet from falling. O fave mefrom the horrible pit, draw me out of the miry clay,fet my feet upon a reck, and eftablifii my goings, andput a new fong in my mduth.. O give me grace to ftrive by faith and prayer to en*-'er in at the ftrait gate Lord thou haft bid,me knocknd it fhall be opened, afk and ye fhali find, Lord*knock, open unto me; i flio^!d be in, I mull be in,et me but in over the threfhdld: let me in withinight of my Redeemer’s face, within hearing of the"ongs of the, redeemed, let me get to the outfide ofhat pr.'ifing company ; I’ll be Well enough if I get in.Lord in I mull be, out I cannot ftay; O fhut merot out with fweareis, fabbath-breakers artd profaneaerfons ;■ Lord I never chufed their company whilethis world. Lord, do not gather my foul withSnnem hereafter.The redeemedthering; Lordft a-gathering;ate gathering, andwicked aregather me with thy flock; they arethe church’s Head is gone ; h£ hasft the earth and entered into his glory ; my brethrend friends many of them-have arrived where he is ;am yet behind. O how great is the difference be-vixt my ttate and theirs. I am‘groaning-out my•mplaint; they are finging God’s praifc -, I am in.rknefs, and cannot fee thy face, but they beheld the*C 6 ;face to face. O fhould I be fatii-fied \o flay behind^when my friends are gone! Shall I wander here in ahungry ddart, when they are triumphing above, anddividing the fpoii i O help me to look after themwith a iiedtall eye, and cry, O Lord how long;O heavenly Father, draw me after jefus, for nonecan come to him without thy aid. O Father draw meup there ’where he is, and I will mount up as oneagle’s wings. O draw* me, and when thou feemeilto. fly from me, Lord enable me to follow hard'afterthee.Lord give me the Half of promife in my hand, thatI may go over Jordan with it O give me fuch apromife as that, ‘ When thou pafleft through thev/ateis I will he with thee, and through the rivers they |ihail not overflow thee: VV hen thou walktft through |the fire thou (halt not be burnt, neither fhall theflarne kindle upon thee.’Lord, my experiences are frr.all, my manifeftationsare few* thefe I will not lean to-, yet I will remem¬ber thee from the land of Jordan, from the Hermonites,arid from the hill cf Mjzar. Why art thou caft downO my foul, and why difquieted within me! hope..tho^u in God, for I fnall yet praife him, who is thehealth of my countenance, and my God.O thou who remen bredfl the dying thief, when on t,the way to thy kingdom, O remember me when nowfeated in thy kingdom, and fay to my foul when lamdying ‘ This day fluit thou he with me in paradife.’Lord 1 am called to the work I never did, O giveme the, flrcngth I never had. O {Lengthen me like|iSan-ion. for once when at death, to pull down the fjlirong holds of fin in me. Lord wall' away my finsr.i the blood of Chrift, and then my foul (hall no! ;itnk in the ocean of thv wrath.O what is my life but a vapour! a fond glafs of 6coX 70 years ! O how fait does it run down ! how foonruns it out} Vain* vain is the love of life, and the feaof death. G for more patience and lefs fretting. It-D'e damned had'hope of being faved from hell afterA 7 \ .l©oo years of my pain how willingly would they en¬dure it. Blefled be God, my pains are not hell, their -ftate is not mine.Lord draw near to me and fave me; my body isfull of trouble, and my life draw's near to the grave.But, Lord, thy loving-kindnefs is better than life,O make thy loving-kindnefs fure to me, angl I willwillingly part with this dying life.Oh, that I could make ail the world fee the beautyof my precious and adorable Saviour.Nothing but an intereft in Chrifl: can give peace inlife, or comfort in death. He is the chief.among tenthoufand, and altogether lovely. My body is in partdead, but I know I cannot die eternally, while Jefuslives. I mud go down to the grave; but what is thegrave; It is but a refining pot fince my Saviour layin it, it-is hut a bed of rofes. ‘ He is the rofe of Sha¬ron and the lilly of the valley.’It was his free gr^re that drew me, and made mswalling in the day of his power ; no defire, no meritin me, it was all free and undeferved.0 let the chaftifement of my body be the medicineof my foul, to cure me of fin, and bring me to fin-cere repentance for it: For Chrift was wounded forour tranfereifions, he was bruifed for our iniquities;the chaftifement of our peace wasiaid upon him.Lord, remember the chaftifement of Chrift for fin,| and let my pains be the chaftifement of a father, andnot the wounds of an enemy. Let Chrill’s fufferingsmitigate mine.1 rejoice in the profpedl of that glorious inheritancereferved fafe. 1 could not comfortably enter enternliyany other v'ay but in and through this God-man me¬diator ; if he was not God as well as man, I could notbe fupported, but he is God.Oh, this precious Saviour, he is my all in all, heis my all-fufficient good, my portion and my choke,in him my vail defires are funlled, and all my powersrejoice, I am travelling through a wildernefs to a citypf, habitation, whole builder and maker is God. *( S )Oh, delightful thought! that I who was going onin fin, fhould be plucked as a brand out of the burn-ning. Oh, how will they ly on a death-bed thathave nothing but their own works to fly to, with jonly this to depend on, I fiiould be the moft mifera-ble of all creatures, but the long white robe of myRedeemer’s righteoufnefs is all my defire. Theyare truly blefled, they alone are happy, who are e-nabled to exalt in the garments of celeftial glory,which never waxeth old, in the illuftrious robes ofa Saviour’s confummate righteoufnefs, which are in¬corruptible and immoital. This is a robe which hidesevery fin, of thought, word or deed that I have com- !mitted. O how unfpezkably happy are they whqare juftified by this all perfect righteoufnefs of theRord Jefus Chrill, and who therein can conftamlytriumph and glory.Lord, I live upon Chrift, I live upon his righteouf?nefs, I live upon his blood and merits; yea. I die alio ;leaning wholly upon this bottom, It is not pall expe¬riences or manifeflations I depend upon : it is Clirift,a prefent all-fufficient Saviour and perfect righteouf- inefs in him I look to. All my attainments are butlofs and dung befides. When I find myfelf pollut¬ed, I go to this fountain for cleanfing: Lord give 1me Relight in approaching to thee; delignt to be ata throne of grace. O that I could make my bedthere, ly and die there.The kingdom *of heaven Julfers violence, and theviolent take it by force. O for ftrength to offer aholy violence by faith and prayer.Thus the author died as he lived, teftifying thepower of religion upon himfelf: and that at a timewhen men have moft need of its comforts. Theforegoing words are tranferibed from his own manu-feript, now lying in the hands of Mr. BELL, mi-milter eg Aberbrothick.F I N I S,V\