THELife and ProphefiesOFThat Faithful Minifler of God’s WordMr. Donald Cargill,Sometime Minifter in the Barony Parirti of Glasgow, whofuffered Martyrdom for the Lord’s Caufe, with four o-thers, at the Crofs of Edinburgh, the 27th July 1681,and had their Heads put upon the Ports.Being Angular for Piety, Zeal, and Faithfulnefs; but efpe-cially fbr his foretelling future Events ^hat were to befa!Scotland in general, and private families in particular.Such as his foretelling,The untimely and fearful Deaths of thofe cruel Perfecu-tors, whom he had excommunicated at the Torwood.Likewife an account of his Indi&ment, Trial, Sentence,and Behaviour at the place of Execution, with his laftWords upon the Scaffold before he fuffered.In this you have alfo a particular Account of the greatScarcity and Dearth which took place, when many diedfrom Want and bad Provilions, and when the Meal wasas high as Two Shillings and Sixpence the Peck.To which is added,A Part of the Life and untimely Death of Argyle, whogave his calling Vote againft Mr. Cargill.B T PETER WALKER,Who was Himself a Sufferer in those Days.G L A S G OPrinted by J. 5c M. jRobertfon [fiOF SCOTLAND Jlo.( 3 >Mr. Donald Cargill.R. DONALD CARGILL was the eldefl foilof a fmgular Godly gentleman, and heritorin the parilh of Rattery, fome miles from Dunkeld.After he had pafled his courfes of learning at Aber¬deen, he was eftablilhed minifter in the Barony parilhof Glafgow, before and at the unhappy reftorationof Charles lid. May 29th, 1660; and was publiclymurdered at the crofs of Edinburgh, July 27th, 1681*before many witnefles, in that never to be forgotten,unheard of twenty-eight years of reigning tyrants, andraging tyranny of prelatical proteftants upon Prelby-terian proteliants.It is a lofs that I cannot give an account how longhe was fixed minifter in the forefaid parilh ; only it iscertain, it was before and at the unhappy reftoration,when Hell, Rome, and all their prolelytes and fa¬vourites, had their invention upon the rack, in theirwicked crafty counfels, how to ftop and overturn ourTHELife and ProphefiesOF THATFaithful Minifter of God’s Word,A 24 THE LIFE JND PROPHESIESgreat covenanted work of reformation, wherein theright hand of the Lord, that does ever valiantly,"was and is remarkable to be feen, in the beginningand carrying on thro’ all the periods of this Church;not only from Paganifm and Popery, but alfo abjur¬ing of Prelacy, both in the laft articles of the Na¬tional Covenant; but more exprefly in the fecond ar¬ticle of the Solemn League and Covenant betwixt thethree nations, wherein all ranks were andtare folemn-3y and perpetually bound, in their places and flations,to extirpate that old Strumpet Mother, and eldelkbeautiful Daughter of Antichrift, with which theblinded nations have been and are fadly bewitched;but vile, loathfome and hateful in the eyes of all thezealous, ferious godly in Scotland, ever fince the Lordmade light to arife to fee her abominations. And itbath been, is, and may be confirming and comfort¬ing to aH the Lord’s people, that our reformation,in all the Heps theceof, hath been of and for theLord, in that he raifed up and continued fuch afucceffion of earneft contenders and faithful witnef-Jes through fo many ages, that none have exceededthem fince the Apoltles went off the ftage. Accord¬ingly the Popifli, Prelatical, and Malignant Faction,enemies of God and godlinefs, began their undermin¬ing work (in the year 1650) of our covenanted refor¬mation, that had flouriflied in a wonderful mannerfrom 1638, eleven years, in their public refolutiqns,as they were then called, in getting all places of pow¬er and truft, filled with men of wicked and corruptprinciples and pra£tices, to make way for the gettingtheir chief Head Charles lid. upon the throne of Bri¬tain, which proved effectual, and got their hellifh de-bgns accomplilhed; which was forfeen, foretold andcontended againlt by a handful of worthy ministersand Chrittians, in thefe days called Proteftors or Re-monftrators. Then, in the 60th year, Cromwell, theItngUfh general with his ten thoufand men were call¬ed home, who came to Scotland in the end of July,OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. sin the year 1650, to arraign the duke of Hamilton,and many debauchees with him, which were faithful¬ly witneffed againfl, invading their kingdom in theyear 1648, and hindering their Icing from complyingwith the parliament’s demands. In that ten years thatthey invaded our land, they defiled it with blood, to¬lerations, and other abominations, which were faith¬fully witnelfed againft by a few of this land. Next,there were fo many in ftate and church chofen to goto Breda, to tranfael with, and bring home their king,whom many of all ranks v/ere, and continue to thisday, lulling after that unhappy race. Notwithftandinghe had got a difpenfation from the Pope to come un¬der our Covenants, who pretended, both he and hisfather had figned for many articles to Popilh princes,to carry on Rome’s intereil which, as I faid before,a gentleman that writes upon court affairs it that timemakes plain to the world. Of the commiffiohers fentfrom Scotland, famous Mr. John Livingftone wasone, contrary to his inclination; which, as he faysin his memoirs, he law, and was fully perfuaded,that there was nothing in all their tranfaclions hutthe height of treachery and perfidy, that a little timewould difcover, and was unwilling to fail the feaswith them. But after their king was gone a fhip-board, fpme out of policy preffed him to go aboardand take his leave of him ; and, as foon as he wentaboard, they lent off the boat, and fo came heme, ful¬ly perfuaded, the plague of God was come to Scot¬land ; neverthelefs of his dUfembling, deceitful, hy¬pocritical, feigned lipped prayers in his clofet, a par¬tition wall betwixt him and the commiffioners to treatwith him; praying aloud for the advancement of thecovenanted relormation in Scotland, and for the per-fedling the work of uniformity betwixt the three na¬tions, according to their folemn vows in the SolemnLeague and Covenant.idly,*’Many alio of the godly at home faw cloudsgathering, and a terrible black itorm coming on.'6 <THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESbout this time bleft Mr. M‘Ward, Cargill, and othersthrough the lands, who were of one heart and foul,feeing with one eye, thinking with one mind, andfpeaking with one breath, met at Glafgow to comparenotes, and fet a day apart for prayer together, to bemore and more confirmed of their duty of giving warn¬ing of the fin and danger of the malignant courfesdriven on in that day by fraud and force, efpeciallycalling home their head Charles lid. Mr. M‘Wardwas the firlt that prayed with more than ordinary en¬largement and gale upon his fpirit, earneftly beggingof the Lord, that in mercy, love and pity, he wouldfeal, fpirit, and fit a remnant to ftand ftedfaft, what¬ever, and from whatfoever airth the winds mightblow; and that there might be a fucceflion of faithfulwitneffes raifed up to follow the Lord fully in life anddeath : Lift Charles and his intereft came not in hisway. When ended, they challenged him for it; hefaid, Let alone, if it be with you as it hath beenwith me, they would all go the fame road; and fo itwas with all of them : From whence they concluded,that it would be wafted time and prayers that werefpent about him. Mr. Cargill after that was neverheard to pray for him in public. His unhappy birth andreftoration-day. May, 29th 1660, which was enabledand made an univerfal Thankfgiving-day, became atrial to fome, and a land-fin and fnare ro many, andobferved to this day, by caftle-guns roaring, thougheven upon the Sabbath, at twelve of the clock:which day was Mr. Cargill’s ordinary weekly fermon-day. His kirk being very throng, with tears he faid.Do you expect more or better preaching this day thanother days ? or, is it upon account of your king ? Itis like that is many of your errands; for me, I defireto be found in the way of my duty, being our ordi¬nary day, otherwife I would not have preached a wordupon that account. Rejoice not, 0 Ifrael, as other peo¬ple rejoice; fur thou art gone a whoring from thy God.And this is the firlt ftep of your going a whoringOF MR. DONJLD CARGILL. 7which will make way to lead and draw on too manylong and great; and whoever of the Lord’s peopleare this day rejoicing, their joy will be like the crack¬ling of Thorns under a fot; it will foon be turned tomourning; he will be the wcfulleft fight that everthe poor church of Scotland faw. - Wo, wo, wo tohim; his name fnall ftink while the world Hands, fortreachery, tyranny, and leachery. I had this accountfrom feveral old Chriftians who were his hearers thatday ; efpecially that ferious zealous Chrillian, Ro¬bert Goodwin, one of Durham’s elders, when inprifon with him.gdly, From his youth he was much given to fecrctprayer, yea, whole nights; and it was obferved by1'ome, both in families, and when in fecret, he ahvaysfat ftraight upon his knees, without relting upon anything, with his hands lifted up, (and fome took no¬tice he died the fame way with the bloody rope abouthis neck) efpecially after the bloody murder of Mr. Ca¬meron, and thefe worthies with him at Airds-Mofs,July, 22d 1680, until the following September, thathe excommunicated thefe wicked men at the Torwood.He was much alone both night and day, and fpake lit¬tle even in company, only to fome few he faid, Hehad a tout to give with his trumpet that the Lord hadput in his hand, that would found in the ears of ma¬ny through Britain, and other places in Europe.Hone knew what he was to do that morning, exceptMr. Walter Smith, to whom he imparted the thoughtsof his heart: When he began, his bed friends fearedthat fome wicked perfon would fhoot him : his land¬lord, in whofe houfe he had been that night, call hiscoat and ran for it. Some ferious, folid Chriftians,jret alive, who were witnefies to it, when he endedthe fentences of excommunication, he faid. That, ifthefe unhappy men die the ordinary death of men, Godnever fpake by him. That afternoon'he preached up¬on that text. For the Lard will not cajl off for ever,kut though he caufe grief, yet will he have compaffon8 THE LIFE JND PROPHESIESaccording to the multitude of his mercies. In which fcr-mon he touched neither the tyranny nor defections inthe land. This confirmed what he faid in his dyingwords, “ However it be with me at the laft, though Ifhould be ftraitened by God or interrupted by men;yet all is true and {hall be well: I have followed<c holinefs, I have taught truth, I have been moft in“ the main things; not that I thought the things con-cerning our times little,” (5V.Athl\<y The next bftbbath-dav he preached at theFallow-hill, in the weft end of *Livingfton parifh, up¬on the boarders of Clydefdale. In the Preface he faid,I know I am and will be condemned by many forwhat I have done, in excommunicating thefe wickedmen; but condemn me wrho will, I am approven ofGod, and am perfuaded, that what I have done onearth is ratified in heaven: For, if ever I knew themind of God, and was clear in my call to any piece ofmy regeneration-work, it was in that; and I {hall giveyou two figns whereby you may know that I am inno delufion.1. If fome of thefe men do not find that fentencebinding upon them ere they go off the ftage, andbe obliged to confefs it from their terror* and to theaffrightment of others.2. If thefe men die the ordinary death of men,then God never fent me, nor fpoke by me.The firft of thefe was clearly verified in the cafeof my Lord Rothes, and the fecond was verified alfoto the remembrance of many yet alive. 1. Allknow that Charles Hd, was poifoned. 2. His brother,the Duke of York, died ifl St. Germains in France :I can give no account of his death. 3. The Dukeof Monmouth was executed at London. 4. Tht*Duke of Lauderdale turned a belly-god, and diedupon the chamber-box. 5. The Duke of Rothes diedraving, under the dreadful terrors and fenfe of thatfentence binding upon him, making his bed {hake tothe affrightment of all drat heard and faw him*OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 9Bloody Sir George M‘Kenzie died at London withall the paflages of his body running blood. 7. Ge¬neral Thomas Dalziel of Binns died with a glafs o£Wine at his mouth in peifeft health: but a more par¬ticular account of thefe afterwards.5 I gave an account in the life and death ofMr. Cameron, that upon the 18th day of July 1680,they preached together at the Kiprig in Clydfedale ;which was Mr. Cameron’s laft Sabbath, and wereto meet and preach at Craigmad in Stirlinglhire thefirft Sabbath of Auguft, but Mr. Cameron’s bloodand others ran like water on the 22d of July : Mr.Cargill preached upon the 25th in the parifh of Shots,upon that text, “ Know you not that there is a greatman and Prince fallen in our Ifrael.” He preachedupon the firft day of Auguft at Craigmad, and lectur¬ed upon the 22d chapter of Jeremiah, and ran theparallel in fo many particulars betwixt Coniah andCharles lid. and in the end faid, if that unhappy manupon the throne of Britain (hall die the ordinarydeath of men, and get the honour of the Burial of■kings, and if he (hall have any to fucceed him law-3 fully begotten, then God never fent me, nor fpoke byme. The old pious praying Mr. Reid, late minifterin Lochrutton in Galloway, Mr. Shields and GeorgeLaplly, who lived and died at the Bowhead, heardhim utter thefe expreffions: They were all at Londonin the time that he was poifoned, who made all fearchto know when, where, or how he was buried, butcould never find it out, being buried clandeftine-iy ; and all know that he had none to fucceed him,; although mlny faid, and fome write, That if all thewomen he lay with in adultery and fornication hadi conceived and brought forth, his offspring would haveI been as the ftars in the firmament, fpending his timeP* only with wine and women, unconcerned about ei-!' ther heaven or hell, and eafy about all religion. Not1 driving on Rome’s intereft, as they expected, and he: engaged when abroad with the Popilh PrincCs > hi?10 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESbrother the Duke of York being a fworn vafllil ofAntichriit, and longing to be at the throne, that hemight be more aftive in all mifchief, made them allconfpire to give him a dofe, and fend him off. Theaforefaid friends at London faid to me, That it wascommonly reported, that when he found the poifonworking upon him, he fat up in his bed, having oneof his many whores in bed with him, as was his or¬dinary, and took a fnuff; and it being poifoned alfo,he fell a roaring, and faid, “ O madman that I havebeen, that have murdered my bed fubje£ts and ba-«f nifhed my fon the Duke of Monmouth, and com-« mitted myfelf to the hand of murderers!”6tMy, After that excommunication in the Tor-wood, the full account whereof is to be found inthe Hind let Loofe, v/ritten by famous Mr. Shields :After this, there was a price of 6000 merks fet up¬on his head, for any to catch him quick or dead.The violent avowed enemies were Hill in fearch forhim before this, but more after, who, to gain theprize, had curlt Doeg-like intelligencers every wherelying-in-wait to betray him into their hands; not-vvithftanding, he was remarkably preferred, and ma¬ny times narrowly efcaped their hands, until hiswork was done and his hour comej and then fudden-ly and furprifmgly was catched, as afterwards I lhallmake plain.Befides the narrow efcapes mentioned in the rela¬tion given of him in ffle Cloud of Witneffes, therewere other four as follows, 1. His horfe was fhot bc-Tieath him at Linlithgow bridge, and he very narrow¬ly efcaped their bloody hands. 2. At Loudon-hill,which is before me to give an account of. 3. At theQueensferry, June 3d 1680 v when he, with HenryHall of Haughhead, that worthy Chrittian Gentle¬man, were upon their way from Borrowftounnefs tdthe Queensferry, thefe two fons of Belial, the curatesof Borrowftounnefs and Carriden, walking upon thefea-fide, knew Mr. Cargill, and went in hafte to Mid-OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. iidleton governor of Blacknefs, and informed him.He ordered his foldiers to come after him; he fol¬lowed hard to the Ferry and got notice where theylighted, came in, and pretended great kindnefs, prtf-fing them to take a glafs of wine, until his men cameup; then drew his fwprd, faying, they were his pri-foners. Haughhead drew his fwoid to defend tliem-felves. The women in the town gathered; one ofthem gript llaughhead to fave him. One ThomasGeorge, a waiter there, behind his back, ftrnck himon the head with the doghead of his carabin, andbroke his fkull. The women carried him off, andfome of them fupported him to Echlen, near half “amile, to the houfe of Robert Phunton, my brother-in-law, who was banifhed with Mr. Peden. Thehoufe of Binns being near Thomas Dalziel’s dwelling-place, (that bloody tyrant, who was general to theforces twenty years) and he having got notice, camein great hafte and fury, threatening great ruin tothat family for taking in the rebel; and carried himback to the Ferry, and kept him all night. There isan old Chrifiian woman (yet alive) who waited up¬on him all night, which was a weary night, he notbeing able to 1'peak to her, palling all his brains athis nodi ils, and died to-morrow by the waygoingto Edinburgh. None can give an account how theydifpofed of his corple.Mr. Cargill in that confufion efcaped being fofe-ly wounded, and crept into fome fecret place in thefouth fide of the town. A very ordinary womanfound him lying bleeding, took her head-clothes andtied up the wwunds in his head, and conducted himto James Phunton’s in Carlowrie; he being a Hran-ger, and knew not who were friends or foes ; forwhich he faid, he was many times ohhged to prayfor that woman. Some Cay, after that there was achange upon her to the better. He lay in that barntill n ght, and then was conduced to fome friend’shoufe. Mrs. Phunton gave him fome warm milk ;B 2i2 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESand a chirurgeon came providentially to the houfe,who dreffed his wovmds.General Dateiel came and called for James Phun-ton, and took, him away to Kirkliftoun; when fetdown, the curator there, (another of £he Serpent’s0, brood who inform’d him) came and accufed him beTfore the general, for fhewing kindnefs to inch a no¬torious rebel, for which he was carried to Edin¬burgh, and call into prifon, where he lay threemonths, and paid a thoufand merks of fine.IVlr. Cargill the next Sabbath, preached at Cairn-hili, betwixt Loudon and Tweeddale, in his woundsand blood; for no danger nor diftrefs could flop himin going about doing good, and diftributing food tqfo many ftarvlng fouls up and. down the land, histime being Ihort, that fo he might finilh his courfewith joy, he preached that day upon that text, And•what Jhall 1 more fay, for the time would fail me tofpeak of Gideon and fephthae. At night fome faid tohim, we think, Sir, praying and preaching go befywith you when your danger and diftrefs is greateft.He faid, it had been fo; and he hoped that it wouldbe fo, that the more that enemies and all others didthruft that he might fall, the more fenfibiy and moredifceruibly the Lord had helped : And then, (as hi?ordinary was) as it had been to himfelf, repeatedthe following words, The Lord is my Jlrengtb andfong, and has become my falvation. That cxviii Pfalmwas the laft Pfalm he fuxg on earth, which he fangon the fcaffold,ythly, In the beginning of November 1680, gover¬nor Middleton being ftruftrated of his defign at theQueensferry, and affronted by a few women, deliver¬ing the prey out of his and his foldiers’ hands, con-fulted with James Henderfon in Ferry, and laid downa hell-deep plot and trap to catch him, by forgingand figning by different hands, in the name of BailieAdam in Culrofs, and Robert Stark in Milns ofLftrth, that ferious zealous folid Chriftian, who hadOF MR. DONJLD CARGILL. 13his great fhare ot.the tyranny ('i that time, and etherhoneft leading men in the {hire o:' Fife, for Hender-fon to come to Edinburgh, am make all fearch for Mr.Cargill, to call him over to f ife to preach at the hillt>f Baith : Accordingly iie found nim in the Weft-Bow, in a chamber tnat t e torefaid Robert Stark hadtaken for his children at School; two of them areyet alive in Edinburgh, worthy of credit, who willafter! the truth of this. Mr. Cargill was very willingto anfwet the call: fome prefeut obferved that tien-derlon Was either drunk cr confui'ed, which madethem jealous of treachery. Henderfon propofed, thathe would go before, and have a Boat ready at theFeny agauni f ey came : and, that he might knowthem, denied to let Mr. Cargill’s clothes. And Mr.Skeen and Mi. Bo:g being in the room with him, inthe meantime he had Middleton’s Soldiers lying indifgwie for him at Mutton-hole, three miles from E-dinuuig.i, the high way, to the Ferry: there was anAk-houfe upon the fouth-iide, ana a park dyke uponthe ncitn-iiue, and no eviting them. . Mr. Skeen,Archibald Steward, and Mrs. Moor, and MarionHarvie took the way upon foot, Mr. Cargill, and Mr.Boig being to follow upon hoi fes. When they cameto the place, the Soldieis griped them; in the confu-fron Mrs. Moor eftaped and went quickly b -ck, andj ftopt Mr. Cargiil. and Mr. Boig, who fled back to E-dinburgh again, the priloners were brought alfo toEdinburgh, Mr. Skeen, and Archibald Stewart wereexecuted at i*he ercE ot Edinburgh, Dec. 1. 1680.and Marion Harvie, with Ifabel Allifon, were exe¬cuted in tl.e Grafsmarker, January 26. 1681. How¬ever, Hendcrion got the price of blood, and boughtor built a pafkge-boat, which he called Katherine;but many tea.ed to oofs the water in her. Hendtr-ion alter this turned milerable and contemptible inthe eyes of all well thinking men, and, fome aftirm,he died curling, after he got that reward for trea-J4 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESEtblj, After this reniaikable efcape, feeing nothingfcut the violent flames ot treachery and tyranny againflhim above all others, Ire alone keeping up the publicftandard o{ the gefpel at that time, went to Englandv,for about three months, where the Lord blell his la¬bours m the miniflry, to the convidlion and ediflca-tion of many poor fouls. In this none-fuch, melan¬choly, Egyptian darknefs, Mr. King, Mr. Kid, andMr. C .nition, being publicly murdered; Mr. Black-adder, and Mr. Dickfon, in the enemies hands, Mr,Cargill, Douglas, and Hepburn, gone of the king*dom ; the relt of the thirty Minifteis who preachedin the fields before Bethwell-bridge, being fallen indeep filepce and compliance with the enemy: in thistime while men flept, the enemy fowed his tares. Inthe beginning of the year 1681, the devil began anew project at Borrowftounnefs upon a few of thofewhom he could not drive to left-hand defections, byinjcCting into them demented enthufiaftical delufions,driving them upon wild unheard of right-hand ex¬tremes, with a fpirit of divifion and unw arrantablefeparation from all that would not or durft not goup with them in every jot; which began in Hollanda jear before, which 1 have already given a trueaccount of; and which remains rampant in Scotlandto this day, and 1 fadly fear will outlive me.John Gibb, a failor in Borrowftounnefs, a greatprofeflor, (but ftill fome lerious fouls jealous of him)drew about twenty-fix women and three men withhim, the greater part cf them ferious, exercifed, ten¬der, zealous, gracious fouls, w'hoftumbled upon thatftumbling-block laid in their way, of minifters com¬pliance, lilence and unfaithfulnels, who before thebreak of Bothw cll-Bridge for about eleven years, hadpublicly preached the mdifpenfible duty of all theLord’s people to follow the gcfpel, and defend thelame: But a little thereafter, the enemy gave an in¬demnity, or third indulgence to all miniflers who for¬merly preached in the fields, to preach in houfes withOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. i;the cautionary-band witneiTed againld in the Banderad fbmderi. They fo far complied with the enemy’sdefign and defire to have their Rendezvous of Rebel¬lion, the field conventicles (as then call’d) the devil’sgrand eye-fore, and great vexation to all his friends,the foes of reformation, that they would preach nonewithout houfes, even thofe who formerly were moltzealous and forward that way, whofe names mightbe mentioned, and who would not fet their faces todoors when there were any people without. Thefelamentable things, together with the cruel tyranny,{bedding fa much innocent precious dear blood, madethem fplit with zeal, not only to call off all that donot agree with them in every thing, but alfo to utterllrange anti-gofpel imprecations, difdaining and re¬proaching all others as backfliders, dating their tedi-mony again!) all crown dues, excife and cuftoms:And for that end would make no nfe of ale nor tobac¬co, and other foul things. Thefe people'at firll werecommonly called Sweet Singers, from their frequent¬ly meeting together, and linging thefe tearful Pfalmsover the mournful cafe of the church, Pfalm 74, 79,80, 83, 137. Thus they continued from the begin¬ning of the year until April; then all with one con-fent, that they might be free from all thefe forefaidthings, left their houfes, warm loft beds, cover’d ta¬bles; fotne of them their hufbands and children weep¬ing upon them to flay with them; ibme women tak¬ing the fucking children in their arms to defart placestube free ofallfnarcs and fins, and communion withall others, and mourn for their own fins, the land’s ty¬ranny and defections, and theie to be Cafe from thalaud’s utter ruin and dcfolations by judgements; fomeof them going to Pentland hills, with a refolution tofit there to fee the fmoke and utter ruin of the finfulbloody city of Edinburgh: But, if they had fulfilledtheir refolution, they vvould have been fadly beatentla-fc forty-eight years, 'ueing lately gout to theirgraves, laying more weight and ftrefs upyn.thefe du-i6 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESties of prayer, failing and mourning, than uponChhft’s fatisfaftion, obedience and interceffion, whichalas, that legal formal fpirit is the ‘-uin and plague ofthe greater part of preachers and prayers aboundingthis day, and ruining all the churches. Thefe werea part of the confeffion of iome of thefe gracious wo¬men, who c une unde.- the power of filch delulions vo¬luntarily before a great multitude of people, upon the3d day of March 1681, at the black hill of Lefmahago;and matter of mourning to this day. Immediately af¬ter they came to thefe defart places, they kept a day offalling, and confeffing of their fins one to another:Yea, fomeof them confeil fins that the world had notheard of, and fo not call’d to Gonfefs them to men.In the meantime of their lying in this fad pickle indefart places, the man of God, bled Cargill, camedown fromEngland; a happy tryil to many godly, zea¬lous fouls, who had a gale of zeal upon their fpirits,'and feared no danger upon the right hand, if they heldoff the left. Immediately he was called to preach inDarmide muirs, by fome who retained their formerzeal and faithfulnefs. That Sabbath morning, John'Gibb, David Jamie, Walter Kerr, John Young, andtwenty-fix women, were lying in the Deer-flunk in*midll of a great flow mofs betwixt Clvdefdale and Lo¬thian, about a mile diltant. Mr. Cargill fent twomen, whofe names I could mention, to defire themto come and hear fermon, and that he might converfewith them, feverals of them being his acquaintance.John Gibb anfwsred, He had left the land, and de¬fected the teflimony; they did pot want him nor noother minifter; it was never better with them thanfince they had parted with all of them. He came andHood upon a chair, and had nothing to veil upon, withhis bible betwixt his hands, as his ordinary was at alltimes when I heard him. I well remember, he fangthe firft verfe of the 37 Pfalm, For evil doers fretthou not, tec. and lectured upon the 2iff Chapte^ of1 Kings from the 17th verfe, of what pafled betwixtOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. ifAliab and Elijah, and Ahab’s outward humiliation,Where he had many fentehtious notes: and preachedupon that text, Amos iv. 12. therefore this will Ida unto thee, 0 Ifrael! and becaufe I will do this untothee, prepare to meet thy God, 0 IfraelHe infilledupon the foregoing judgements that had proven in-eiTeftu:;!, and few had returned unto him ; but thiswas a namelefs judgement, or a tton-fuch llioke. He■went to Darngavell, in Cambufnethen parilh, uponthe fide of the muir: He fent for them to-moirow ;when they came^ they had a long reafoning in theb^rn ; the fum and fubftame of it is to be found inthat letter he fent to the women in the Corre&ion-liOLife, which is publilhed in the Cloud of Witnefies.Two things they required of him, before they couldjoin, and own him as their minifter. i. That hewould confefs publicly his fin in leaving of the land.0-. That he would engage to preach to none but them,and thofe that joined with them. He anfwered.That he did not'fee that to be fin in leaving the landin fuch a time, and fo Ihort a time, in his circurii-fiances; and he hoped that he had been ufeful to nota few whe.re he had been; and to preadh to none butthem, was a dreadful reftrivdion to his miniftry; forhis commifiion was far more extenfive, to go andpreach, and baptise all nations, and to preach thegofpel to every creature ; and if his trumpet wouldfound to the ends of the earth, he would preachChrift to all. Gibb and Jamie carried piltols uponthem, and threatened all that came to feek their wivesor others from them : which frighted fotne. Therewas a bed made for him and John Gibb: He laydown a little, but rofe in halte, and went to the muirall' night, 1 well remember, it was a cold eafterly wetfog. Many waiting on to have his thoughts aboutthem, he refufed upon the Sabbath evening to givehis thoughts until he fpake with them. They foundhim in the morning wet and cold, and very melan¬choly, wanting reft all night, and great grief uponi8 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIEShis fpirit. They feid, now. Sir, you have fpeke withthem, and have had your thoughts about them, befree with us. He faid, my thoughts are both bad andfad: This man, John Gibb, is an incarnate devil, andthere arc many devils in him; woe to him, his namewill {link while the world hands. I blefs God whopreferved me, he might have cut my throat thisnight, but I got warning of my danger. As for Da*vid Jamie, there is a good fcholar loft, and a minilterfpilt: I have no hope of him. I am afraid that Wal¬ter Kerr, John Young and others, will go a greaterlength, but I hope the Lord will reclaim many ofthem. And now, go all home, and pray that this fnaremay be broke; for this is one of the moft dreadfuland dangerous fnares that hath been in my time; butthey run fo faft, they will foon difeover themfelves :Bht I greatly fear thefe wild tares of delufions anddiviftons will fpring and grow, and never be rootedout in this land ; which has fadly come to pafs.And this, in preaching and conference, he wasmoft fententious and plain in difeovering and givingwarning of the fnare, fin and danger of thefe wildextremes: neverthelefs, the indulged, filent and un¬faithful, lukewarm, complying minifters and profef-fors made no diftinftion betwixt him and Gibb, butmade it their work by tongue and pen, to bury himand his faithfuluefs in the allies of thefe vile ex¬tremes ; and as for any of us that traveled forty orfifty miles far or near to hear him preach, (and nodanger or enemy could flop or difeourage us) theyfpread that we were away with the Gibbites, altho’I never faw John Gibb, nor was acquaint with anyof his followers at that time; for which I bids theLord that fo mercifully and remarkably preventedit, by hearing and following of bleft Cargill.After this, in the beginning of May, the Gibbiteswere all taken by a troop of dragoons at the Woolhill-craigs, betwixt Lothian and Tweedale, a very defartplace; The ehenyes earned them to Edinburgh; theOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 19four men were put in the Canongate tolbooth, and'the twenty-fix women in the Coire&ion-houfe, andfome of them fcourged; and, as their friends lovedand had money, they were fet free. The greater partof them came to their right mind, after they had taf-ted of the bitter fruits of thefe demented delulions,with whom I have had edifymg converfation fince.The duke of York being in Edinburgh, he and allother enemies rejoiced at all thefe llrange tilings, andgave large money to thefe four men, for which theywrote a mod blafphemous paper to York, copies ofwhich ?.re yet in the hands of fome. In a little timethey were all liberate. Thefe four men, with llabelBonn and another woman, whofe name I have fob-got, went weft to the Froft Mofs, betwixt Airth andStirling, where they burnt the holy Bible, as theyhad exclaimed againft the Pfalms in metre, and con¬tents of the Bible as human inventions: every one ofthem had fomewhat to fay, when they threw theirBibles in the fire. John Gibb faid. He did that outof defpite againft God. The night befoie that horrida£tion of burning the Bible, Walter Kerr and JohnYoung prayed all night in that mofs, and a lightfhining about them. Shortly after this Walter Kerrturned mad, and was for fome time bound in Tor-phichen, where he wTas born. He came to his rightmind again and went to Clyde, a mile beneath La¬nark, to the houfe of Robert and Elifabeth Bruce,two old foiid, ferious Chriftians, both my acquaint¬ances, who got a hearty fmack of the fweetnefs ofthe gofpel, 111 that good day at the Kirk of Shots,where he ferved two years, and deeply mourned bothnight and day for what he had done : and wrote 38fttps thereof. He fometimes faid, <l If there were aChriftian Magiftrate 111 the land, he would go tothem and confels all, and feck of them to executejuftice upon him for burning the Bible. He told hismailer and inilliefs, that he would be taken and ba~ni :;hed, which ...cordingly came to pafs< in the yearC 2ao THE LIFE AND PROPHESIES1685. And feme of our banifhed worthies (whowere with him in America, and came home) faid tome, that he exceeded all our banifhed, that theyknew, in prevailing with fome to fet up the w’orlhipof God in their families, and young ones to pray,and join in focieties for prayer and conference: Whatbecame of him fince, I know not.John Young went into Lothian after that, and kepta fchool, lived retired and fpoke little. Gibb andDavid Jamie, Ifabel Bonn, and that other woman,were again taken and put in the Canongate tolbooth,where they took fuch fits of feven days falling, thattheir voices were changed in their groanings and gol-lerings with pain of hunger, and then fuch exceffiveeating, that thefe with them admired how their bel¬lies could contain fo much. Gibb was fo poflell witha raging roving devil, that they could not get publ.cworlhip performed three times a day, as their ordi¬nary was in each room: Two of thefe prifoners tooktheir tour about, lying upon him with a napkin in hismouth. George Jackfon, who thereafter fuffered atthe Gallow-lee in December 9th 1684,-at firft whenhe came there prifoner, faid, Is that his ordinary ?They laid, it was. He faid, I lhall Hay his roaring,and threatened Gibb, he fell a trembling and put hisown napkin in his mouth, but could not refrain hisroaring: George defired them to halt in time of wor-fhip, and with feet and hands daih’d his head Ggamftthe wall, and l?eat him fo, that the reft were afraidthat he had kill’d him outright. Gibb was a big ftrongman, for which he was called meikle John Gibb.After this, whenever they began, he ran in be dridthe door, with his napkin in his mouth, and there fathomi ng like a dug. I had fhefe accounts from toeprifoners who were with him when I was carried in¬to that iron-houfe. Immediately after, John Gibb,David Jamie, and the forefa d two were f nt to A-merica, where Gibb was much admired by the her-tljen for his fapailiar conyerfe with the devil bodily.OF MR. DANIEL CARGILL. 2rand offering facrifices to him ; he ditd there aboutthe year 1720. -David Jamie wrote a letter to his fa¬ther in Linlithgow, where he was born, defiring himnot to trouble himfeif about heaven or hell, for a*Ithefe things were fancies. John Smith that feriousfolid Chriftian who was fourteen yeais ban-lh’d there(who died of late in the panlh of Carftairs) carriedthat letter, and delivered it to his father: When thegood old man read it he fainted : But David Jam:c,being a piece of a fcholar, got himfeif into pahlicclerking, and a fewr years ago, was clerk in the town<<f New-York in New-England : 1 faw his name atDoftor Nicu'i's commifficn here, for a public collec¬tion for building of a church there.Tims 1 have given a full and true account of therife, tleps, and monlirous lengths, and frightful endof thefe Gibbites; which may .be a warning, to theprefent and following ages, to tremble and be afraidof coming under the power of fuch demented, deli¬rious deluflons : And whereby all may fee, that theman of God, bleft Cargill, was not miltaken in allthat he did forfee and foretel about them.qthly. After that conference with the Gibbites atDarngavell, the next Sabbath day, he preached twomiles beneath Lanark, in the Under-bank-wood up¬on Clyde-fide, upon that text, I have Jet watchmenupon thy waits ; where he lamented that ir had beenthe great fin of the church of Scotland, in fitting upof watchmen, that had littie or no experience of re-generatirn, and had been overly of their trials, con¬tenting tbemfelves with a clatter-of gifts and learn¬ing : And lamented alio, that fo many watchmenwere fkd off the walls, and deferred their polls,frighted as it they were bis lied or thnnder-flain. lieHayed for fome time in that wood.In the beginning cf May ;68i, Gavin Woth, r-fpoon and John Stewart, huih my acmnsintanc; s, twoferious zealous Chriftian-:, and groat fufferer-, cameunto bun: Tilt b ats b ing Ikep a;.d the v. ood: ciofe.122 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIEShe inquired if there was any appearance of rain, theyfaid they faw none. He faid, Thefe braes look, veryburnt-like, being a cold eaft drought. Gavin faid, wefear, if the Lord fend not rain, there will be a fcarcityof bread. He faid, I have been thinking upon thatfince I came into this wood; but if 1 be not under adelufion (for this was his ordinary way of fpeakingwhen lie gave his thought of what was to come) youneed not fear that, as long as this perfecution lafls :For the Lord hath a greater refpedl to his owhi fufFer-ing people, than to fufFer fuch a rough wind to blowin fuch an eaft wind; for, if that were, the heavy endof that ftroke would come upon his own people. Forme, I am to die fhortly by the hand of this bloodyenemy; but you that outlive this perfecution, as I amof the mind you will both do (which they did both,and faw the fad accemplilhmcnt) you will fee clean-nefs of teeth, and mony a black pale face, which ftiallS' put many a thoufand to their graves in Scotland, withunheard of natures of fluxes, and fevers, and other-,wife; and there Ihall be great diftrefs in the land, andwrath upon this people. Mr. Peden did forfee andforetel the fame things, but in his own peculiarwaj' of exprelfing himfelf, faying. As long as the ladsare upon the hills, and in glens and caves, you willhave Bannock o'er night; but, if once they were be¬neath the bield of this brae, you will have clean teeth,and niony a black and pale face in Scotland. The fadaccompliftmient of thefe fayings will lamentably ap¬pear in thefe following inftances.In the year 1694 in the month of Auguft, thatcrop got fuch a ftroke in one night by eaft mill or <fog ftanding like mountains, (and where it remain¬ed longelt -and thickeft, the badder were the elFe£ts,)which all our old men, that had feen froft, blaftingand mildewing, had never leen the like, that it gotlittle goed of die ground.In November that winter, many were fmitten withman3' fore fluxes, and ftrsnge fevers, (which earnedOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. a3many off the llage) o\ fuch a nature and manner,that our,old phyficians had never 1'een the like, andcouldmake no help; for all things that ufed to be pro¬per remedies, proved deltrucfive : And this was notto be imputed to bad unwholefome viflual. for feve-rals, who had plenty of old victuals, did fend to Glas¬gow for IriiTi meal, and yet were fmitten with fluxesand fevers in a more violent and infectious nature andmanner than the pooreft in the land, whofe namesand places where they dwelt I could mftance.Thefe unheard of manifold judgements continuedfeven years not always alike, but the feafons, furnmerand winter, fo cold and barren, and the wonted heatof the fun fo much withhclden, that it was difcern-ibls upon the cattle, flying fools, and infe&s decay¬ing, that feldom a fly or gleg was to be feen : Ourharvtfl. not in the ordinary months ; many (hearingin November and December, yea feme in January andFebruary; the names of the places 1 can inftruct:Many contracting their deaths, and lofing ufe of theirfeet and hands, Ihearing and working amonglt it infrolt and fnow: And after all fome of it (landing (till,and rotting on the ground, and much of it for littleufe either to man or bealt, and which had no tafteor colour of meal.Meal became fo fcarce that it was at two (hillings apeck, and many could not get it. It was not thenwith many, “ Where will we get filver ?” But,“ Where will we get meal for diver?” I have feenwhen meal was all fold in markets, women clappingtheir hands, and tearing the clothes off their heads,i crying, “ How (hall we go home and fee our child¬ren die in hunger ? they have got no meat thefeI two days, and we have nothing to give them.”Through the long continuance of thefe manifoldt judgements, deaths, and burials were fo many and3 common, that the living were wearied in the burying-: of the dead, I have feen corpfes drawn in fleds, manyi neither got coffin nor winding fheet. I was oue of54 TRE LIFE and PROPHESIESfour who carried the corpfe of o young woman a mileof waj ; and when we came to the grave, an honeltpoor man came and faid, You mud go and help meto bury my fon, he has Inn dead this two days;otherwjfe ] will be obliged to bury him in mv ownyard. We went, and there were eight of us hadtwo m:!es to carry the corpfe of that young man*many neighbours locking on us, but none to helpus. 1 was credibly informed, that in the north, twofillers on a Monday’s morning were found carrying,the eorpfe of their brother on a barrow with bear¬ing ropes, refling themfelves many times and noneoffering to help them.I have feen fome walking about fun-fetting, andto-morrow about fix o’Clock in the fummer morn¬ing found dead in their houfes without making anyflir at their death, their head lying upon their hand*with as great fmell as if they had been four daysdead, the mice or rats, having eaten a great part oiFtheir hands and arms.Many had cleannefs of teeth in onr cities* amiW'ant of bread in our borders : and to fome the flaffof bread was fo utterly broken (which makes com¬plete famine) that they did eat, and were neitherfatisfied nor nouriflied: And fome of them faid tome, that they could mind nothing but meat, andwere nothing bettered by it; and that they wereutterly unconcerned about their fouls, whelher theywent to heaven or hell.The nearer and forer thefe plagues feized, the fad-der were there efietts, that to*ok away all natural andrelative affe&ions, fo that hufljmds had no fyrapathywith their wives, nor wives with their hufbands, pa¬rents with their children, nor children with theirparents. Thefe and other things have made me todoubt if ever any of Adam’s race were in a moredeplorable condition, their bodies and fpirits morelow, than many were in thefe years.Ihe'c row rung plague of all thefe great and manifoldOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 25plagues, was, many were call down, butfew humbled;great murmuring but little mourning, many groaningunder the effefls of wrath, but few had fight or fenfeof the caufes of wrath in turning to the Lord: And asfoon as thefe judgements were removed, many werelift up, but few thankful; even thofe who were aslow as any, that outlived thefe fcarce times, did aslightly efteem bread, as if they had never knownthe worth of it nor the rvant of it. The grtjat partturned more and more gofpel-proof, and judgement-proof ; and the fuccefs of the gofpel^took. a Hand atthat time in many places of the land.King William’s kindnefs is not to be forgotten,who not only relieved us from tyranny, but hadfuch a fympathy for Scotland, when in diltrefs offamine, that he offered all who would tranfport vic¬tual to Scotland, that they might do it cuflom-free,and have twenty-pence off each boll.I cannot pafs this occafion of giving remarks uponfeme obfervahleprovidences that followed thefe flrangejudgements upon perfons who dwelt upon layv-lyingfertile places, who laid themfclves out to raife marketswhen at fuch a height, and had little fympathy withthe poor, or thofe who lived in cold muirifh places,who thought thofe who lived in thofe fertile places,had a little heaven: But foon thereafter t .eir little! heavens were turned into little hells by unexpectedprovidences. Some wrote fixteen remarks upon thatterrible fire which fell out on the 2d or 3d of Februa¬ry 1700, in the Pavliament-clofs in Edinburgh; onevyas, that moll of thofe people who dwelt there,' were rich and lived fumptuoufly, and had little fym-[ pathy with the diftreffed cafe of the laud ; that theirt fine houfes, which were eleven years in building, wereia a few hours turned to a burnt ruinous heap : Butmore efpeciaily, there was a farmer in tile parifh ofWeft Calder, (in which parifh 300 of 900 examinableperfons died,) who at that time was reckoned worih•' 6000 merks of money and goods that had very littleD26 THE L1EE AND PROPHESIESto {pare to the poor ; the vi£tual lay fpoiling in highoufe and yard waiting for a greater price; and twohoned fervant-laffes whofe names were Nifbet, be¬ing caft out of fervice, (for every one could not haveit; many faid, they got too much wages that got meatfor work) thefe two laffes would not Heal, and theywere afhamed to beg ; they crept in unto an emptyhoufe, and fat there wanting meat till their fight wasalmoft gone; and then they went about a mile of wayto that farmer’s yard, and cut four (locks of kail tofave their lives: He found them, and drave them be¬fore him to the Laird of Bawd, who was a juilice ofpence, that he might get them punitlied. The Lairdenquired what moved them to go by fo many yards,and go to his ? They faid thefe in their way were in{traits themftlves, and he could bell fpare them. TheLaird faid, Poor confcionable things, go your way,I have nothing to fay to you. One of them got fervice,and the other died in want; it was her burial I men¬tioned before, who was buried by us four.' But, lo!in a very few years, he and his were begging fromdoor to door, whom I have ferved at my door, and towhom I (aid, “ Who fliould have pity and fympathywith you, who kept your victual fpoiling, waiting fora greater price, and would fpare nothing of yourfulnefs to the poor, and was fo cruel to the two ftarv-ing lafl'es, that you took prifoners for four Hocks ofkail to fave their lives, ye may read your fin in yourjudgement, if ye be not blind in the eyes of yourfoul, as ye are of one in your body, and may be awarning to all that come after you.” Many yet i-live in that country-fide, can witnefs the truth ofall thefe itrange things.By thefe foregoing relations all may fee, that thefetwo fervants of Chrid, Mr, Cargill and Mr. Pedcn,were clear dghted in what they did foriee and tell,which iadly and exactly came to pals about 13 yearsafter bled Cargill’s bloody death: And in Jeeing andforetelling fuch itrange tilings they were not there a-OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. *7lone in thefe days. The godly, and zealous, andfaithful unto the death, Mr. John Blackadder, w as atthe Cowhill, in the panfh of Livingftone, in the year1675 in the month of Auguft: He went into the fieldsin the evening, being a retired place: when he camein he was very melancholy : Some friends enquired,what made him fo fad ? He faid, he was afraid of avery dangerous infe&ious mill to go through the landthat night, that might have lad efteSs, of many deathsand great dearth to follow’; and defired the family todole door and window, and kesp them as long doleas they might, and take notice where the mill Hoodthickelt and longell, for there they would fee the ef¬fects faddell; which they oid: And it remained tong-eft upon that town called the Craigs, being withintheir light, and only a few families ; and within afour months thereafter, 30 corpl'es went out of thatplace, and bad crops followed for three years, themeal rvas at half a crown the peck : But, lo, in theyear 1678 there was fuch a crop, that the Lothianbarley was fold at four pound the boll, and the pcafeat forty pence; and for that we got tenthoufand High-lapders, five hundred Englilh Dragoons, the wholeMilitia of the kingdom, and all the {landing forcescall in upon the Weft of Scotland at Bothw'eli-bridge:And, as they faid, they came to deftroy, and deftroythey w'ould ; and yet there was abundance for themall, and the inhabitants slid.After Mr. Cargill left the Under-bank-wood, hepreached at Loudon-hill upon a week day, the 3thof May. He defigned only to preach once, and bap¬tize fome children: His text was. No man that hathfollowed me in the regeneration,Jhall be a hfer, but greatgainers. Xu his conference lately with the Gibbltes,finding fo much of Peter’s religion among them, thatthey had left all and followed him, made him to infillin Ihewmg that it was not every pretended way of fol¬lowing Chr/the wouldeither vegardor reward; hold-ing forth the great danger and ruin to place fo much,3) 228 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESif not all, of religion in thefe external parts of chrif*tianity, as prayers, fallings, and mournings, andcontendings, for the teftimony: For fufferings cf thefame, though they were duties, in themfelves, yetwhoever relied upon them would have a cauld coal toblow at in the end: Nothing is ours but fin, nor dueto us, but the wages of it, Death. In the applicationof that fermon, he gave warning of the fnares andfins of the Gibbites and their adlings, and how dan*gerous it was to call off all minifters: And exhortedus to pray for faithful minifters to ourfelves, and ne¬ver content ourfelves without them; for we would notcontinue long found in the faith, and ftraight in theway, if we wanted faithful guides. And, for all therefpecl that thefe divided parties of diflenters, or ra¬ther fchifmatics and feperatifts, pretend to, Mr. Car¬gill, Cameron, Shields, and Renwick, and every oneof them to be their fucceftbrs, and maintaining theteftimony which they fealed with their blood: howlittle do they notice the fententious waitings and fay-ings of thefe worthies ? And I am perfuaded, if theywere upon the ftage this day, that none would fpeak,preach, and write more againft all the divided partiesof them, and their antifcriptural, wild, unprecedent¬ed principles and pradlices: And thefe that call off allminifters this day in Scotland, if they had been livingthrough all the periods of this church, would neverhave embraced any as their minifters, nor none in o-tuer churches this day through the world. It was oneof the fententious fayings of the reverend Mr. JamesKirktoun, in his pulpit in Edinburgh, infifting uponScotland’s fingular privileges above all other churchesfor a long time, “ That there had been minifters inScotland that had the gift of working miracles, andprophefying, which he could inftrudl; and that hehad heard French, Dutch, Englilh, Irilh, and otherminifters preach; and yet there have been and are mi-,nifters in Scotland that preach more from the heart*and to the heart, than any that ever he had heard.”#OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 29And I have fonoetimea heard the worthy Mr. Shieldsfay, when Ire fpoke of his travels through the world,Thet the ill of Scotland he found every where, but“ the good of Scotland he found no where.”When tire fermon was ended and children baptiz¬ed, there came up more children. Friends pi eft himto preach in the afternoon, contrary to his inclina¬tion ; which he did, upon tnat text, iVeep not Jor me,when praying, there came a herd lad, cr ying, ‘ Theenemies are coming upon you.’ They had out no fen-tinels that day, which was net their ordinary ; theywere fo furprifed, that fome that had been at Pent-land, Bothwell, and Airdsmofs, and in other greatdangers were fo feized with fear, fome of the womenthrew their children from them, and Mr. Cargill inthe confufion was running ftraight upon the enemy.Gavin Wotherlpoon and other friends griped him,and hail’d him into the mofs to which the peoplefled; aifo the dragoons fired hard upon them, butthere were none eunti killed or taken that day. 'Iheball went thro’ Patrick Poreman’s hair but his headwas fate, Ids hour not being yet come, and that nei¬ther the time nor place he was to die.About this time fome fpoke to him, that he preach¬ed and prayed fhorc ; who faid, “ G Sir, ’tis longbetwixt meals, and we are in a llarving condition:And it is good, fw'eet, and wholefome which ys de¬liver; but why do you liraiten us fo much for fhort-nefs? He faid, ever iince 1 bowed a knee in good ear¬ned to pray, 1 never duifl pray and preach with mygilts; and where my heart is not affedted, and comesnot up with my mouth, 1 always thought it time forme to quit it: What comes not from my heart, I havelittle hope that it will go to the heart of others.” Thenrepeated thefe fer.leuces of the li i'faltn, Ihen will Itench treuifgrejjbrs thy wny, and finr.ers Jhall be ccn~verted unto thee. When was this then ? Juft when liehad the experience of the forefaid things. If all thisV’cre ftudied and practifed, there would be fewer3o THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESpreachers, and fnort^r preachings, fewer arid fhortcrprayers among proftffors ; they would not deep andwake people, gafping and golleriiig, and few under-llanding what they are faying, as if they were to beheard for much {peaking, or as if God could net orwould not hear them without they cry loud, and lov¬ing to hear themfelves fpeak, and others to admireand adore them: But thefe who are long and loud inpublic for ordinary, cull be ftldom and ihoit in fe-cret; and when they are, they will extend their voicethat others may hear them; which is exprefly forbid-tjeg : When we enter into our clofets, we may hearjjurfelves, but no other. If that loud way of prayingin fecret had been praflifed by our fufferers in throngprifons, efpecially in Dunnotar eaflle, there wouldhave been a frightful confufed noife amongft them,to confufe one another, and to expofe them to themockage of the world as madmen. I am fure it wasthe only ftraitening thing tq fufferers, efpecia’ty whenunder fentence of death, and upon their dying days,when they could not get out their breath.When he went from Loudon-l.il], he paffed thro’the fliire of Air, Garrick, and into Galloway, preach¬ing, baptizing, and marrying, but if aid a ihort timethere. When he left Galloway, he fatd, Farewel,Galloway, for I will never come back to thee again:Thou art now Galloway, but thou wilt become aWallaway, and I fear other ihires in the fouth andweft of Scotland will be little better. Mr. Pedeit hadthe fame expreftions.He came to Clydefdale, where lie took moft delight,and had greateft liberty in preaching and praying, andfeveral other minifters at that time had the fame. Hedefigned to have preached at Tmto-hdl, but the ladyof St. John’s-Kirk got notice, and wrote to fome pub¬lic men that he was to preach at Home’s common, inthe back of Coulter-heights: He was that night inJohn Liddle’s in Heldmire, near Tinto-hiil: he wenteaily in the Sabbath morning to it, thinking to fpendOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 31the morning alone ; but when he faw the people paf-fing on, he called to fome of them, and enquiredwhere they were going, they told him! He faid,that’s the lady’s policy to get us at fome diftancefrom her houfe; but Ihe will be difcovered.He lectured that day upon the 6th of Ifaixli, uponwinch he had many fententious fuyings, 1 remember,from that word, Whom JJjail I fend? And who will gofor us! He faid, To fpeak with holy reverence, we feethat the Trinity of Heaven may be at a Hand, whereto get a tit med'enger to carry the meflage; the pro¬phet faid. Here am /, fend me : ’Tis like if he hadknown what lie was to do, he wotild not have beenfo forward: For, if an honed hearted minifter mighttefufe any errand that God fent him, it would be todenounce judgements upon a people, efpecially fpiri-tual: But the hand of God was here : And, when hegot his commiffion to preach to tiiat people, and theygrew more and more deaf and -blind, he cried out,How long ! And the anfwer was returned. Until thecity be without inhabitants, and the land utterly defo¬late. After he infilled alittle in explaining thefe words,he faid, groaning deeply. If he knew any thing ofthe mind of God, this is the commiflion that we aregetting, and the commiffion that ininifters will get, topreach the generation more and more deaf and blind.And preach who will, and pray who will, this deaf-nefs and this blindnefs {hall remain until many habi¬table places of Scotland, be as walte and defolate asthefe mountains, (looking to them with a very wea¬ry countenance.) But remember I am fetting no timeto this, we know not what fpirits we are of; a thou-fand years appear in his fight as one day, and a delay¬ed thing was neither forgot nor forgiven; and thelonger delayed, the forer when it comes. It will bethe midnight cry, The foolijh found afeep, and thewife (lumbering, and will come upon you as a thun¬der-clap. He went on to the following verfe, Yet init will be a tenth, who Jhall be as the Oak, which hath-2 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESthe fubjiancein the root. Anti from thar he afTerted, that,as the Lord had preferved a remnant through all theperiods of ‘he church: i'o he would prefervc a rem¬nant that would ride out all thefe winter-ftorms.He preached upon that word in the forenoon, Benot high minded, but fear. His fir ft note was. Thatthefe who know themfelves beft, would fear them-felves nioft : And that, as it was hard to determinewhat a length a hypocrite may go in the profeffionof religion, it was a* hard to determine what a lengtha child of God may go in defection, having grace, butwanting the exercife thereof: And, that a Chriftianmight go through nineteen trials, and carry honeftlyin them and fall in the twentieth. While in the bo¬dy, be not high-minded, but fear. lam not fpeakingthis of thefe wretched creatures. Woe to them, fomeof them are nothing but devils, and many of themare milled. For the Lord’s fake, look not to thefe, Imean John Gibb and his company.The next Sabbath day he preached at the Bendrybridge, betwixt Clydefdale and Lothian. He le£fur-ed in Zechariah, on Jofhua ftanding before the An¬gel ; and preached in the forenoon upon that word,Gird thy fword upon thy thigh, and ride profperoiifl\.II is firft note was. That no fooner Chrift became alland all to a foul, but the next wilh of that foul is, Othat he were thus to all tlile world ! And let nevernone think that they are in a right exercife of truereligion, that want zeal for God’s public glory : Andin the afternoon upon thar word, What will ye do inthe day of vif.tation ! where will you flee for help l andwhere will you leave your glory ? From that he faid,"What would all that knew not God, and obey notthe gofpel do? For he was coming with flaming fireto take vengeance upon all fuch : And what wouldall wicked law-inventors, ena£Iors, and executorsdo, aud all iniquitous law-obeyers, and keepers do ?Where would they flee for help ? And where wouldthey leave their ill-gotten glory?OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 33trom the Bendry-biidge he went to Fife, and bap¬tized many children, and preached only one Sabbathat the Lomoiid-hills, and halted back to Clydefdale,and came to the Bentyrig in Cambufnethen parilh,where two friend*, fent from the focieties in Gallo¬way to call him back there, to preach and baptize :where, after he enquired for their welfare and friendsin Galloway, he faid, Have your friends now in Gal¬loway any thoughts or feats of the French, or otherForeigners coming upon you ? They faid, No. Herote and went out being a defart place, to a mofs-hagtbeing the belt Chamber oft-times that he, Cameron,Renwick, and Shields had in thdfe days, who difplay-ed.the public banner of the gofpel, after Bothwell-bridge. It was but a Ihort time that he Itaid incompany and converfe. Thefe two Galloway menfaid to other friends, in that bounds, who were myvery dear acquaintance, who tcid me, why dees theminiller fpeir fuch a queltion at us'r Thefe friendsfaid. Enquire at himfelf, for we find this is his ordi*nary with friends who have been any time out of hiscompany. When he came in, they faid, We havebeen thinking on what you faid to us, and we cannotunderftand what you mean by it. After muling alittle, for that was his ordinary, efpeeially when theyenquired any thing concerning the times, he faid. IfI be not under a delulion, (for this was his ordinaryalfo, when he fpoke of things to come) the French,and other Foreigners, with wicked unhappy men inthis land, will be your ftroke j and it will come infuch a nick of time, when one of thefe nations willnot be in a capacity to help one another; for me I amto die fiiortly by the hands of thefe murderers, andwill not fee it, I know not how the Lord’s people willendure it, that have it to meet with; but the fore-fight and the forethought of it makes me to tremble.And then, as his ordinary was, as it had been tohimfelf, faid, Short but very Sharp,There were two very young lads, who were my ve«* £34 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESry dear billies, whofe converfe and prayer togetherhave been very edifying to me, and the remembranceof it this day is favoury, who lived in the Starry-lhaw,Was very near that Bentyrig where he was, Thomasand John Marlhal, to whom he faid at that' fametime, Lads, ye had meikle need to pray in earneft,you have a fharp ftorm to meet with, and many ftrangefaces to fee, and your bones (hall lie in a ftrange land:This came to pafs three years thereafter in December1684, about the fame time that I fell into the ene¬mies hands, Meldrum, that wicked perfecutor, whomthe world had heard of, apprehended them and car¬ried them to Glafgow. Walter Gibfon, merchantthere, got a gift of them and other twenty-eight, whoftarvcd and poifoned them with little and bad vi&uals,above all that ever I heard of that carried our banifh-ed to foreign lands; few of them in that fliip livedany lime in Carolina ; Thomas died in a little timeafter their landing there, John lived for fometime anddied there alfo. That which was the occafion of oarbanifhed being carried to fo many different places inthe world, was, in thefe days, there were Scots regi¬ments in France, Flanders, and Holland ; and, whentheir men decayed, officers came home feeking re¬cruits ; hearing of prifoners that were under banifh-fnent, got gifts of them from the wicked bloody coun-fellors, and carried them to thefe places. "Thenmerchants, fuch as Gibfon in Glafgow, and Mallochin Edinburgh, Pitlochie, a laird in Fife, and manyothers got gifts of them, (and, as the old faying is,. cocks are free of other folks corn,) who tranfport^dthem tor Carolina, New Jerfey, Jamaica, and Barba-does, to be their Haves; but none of them made their cplack a bawbee with trading in fuch wares, which |confirms what that fingular Chriftian James Clarkfon, «merchant in Linlithgow, whom the forefaid Mallochgot a gift of, with other thirteen, faid, when baniih-ed on fhip-board in the roads at Leith, to which Iwas a witncfs^ We are the baddelt ware$ that ever 'OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 35Malloch had in his packflieet: and if Malloch or a-ny other that trade in fuch wares, be not great lofers*1 am far miftaken.In that fcort time that bleft Cargill had to run, heran fall on foot, having loft feveral horfes in his re¬markable efcapes. Wherever he was called, in feve¬ral times, and different places of the land, when hefat down for reft, being old and weary, he took alook of the many gentlemen’s buildings, and faid«Your Lords, lairds, and gentlemen are making bravehoufes, and large parks: they may build at leafure, itwill not be long many of them will poffefs their houf¬es, which have been nefts of wickednefs and unclean-nefs: They have dipt their hands in the perfecutionand deep compliance, but few of them have had afur of land to (pare for the intereft of Chrift, and itwill go a worfe gate, and their inheritance will vo¬mit out their names. ThS accomplilhment of thisfaying cannot pafs the obfervation of any who fee v^ithhalf an eye, being fo univerfal: And their own fadexperience-can teftify, that fince that time, being nowforty-nine years fince his death, more eftates of hun¬dred of years ftanding, have changed mafters, thandid for a hundred years before, almoft in all cornersof the land. Beftdes thefe lamentable holding rea-fons that he gave, feveral other reafons and occurren-! ces have fallen out fince, to bring it to pafs, fuch as,we always bear the name of the poor proud Scots,: through the world ; and, as our poverty increafeth,fo our pride, vanity, prodigality, and ambition grow1 of airy fool ftiles and titles. We were all once fairly1 ranked in our iblemn national covenants, all noble-t men, gentlemen, barons, burgeffes, minifters, andh commons of all ranks: But fince thefe covenants wereI broken, burnr, and caft by, as almanacks out of date,we are all gone out of rank and filej the honour dueI to the fuperior is given to the inferior, our goodman,and goodwife is turned to Sir and Miftrefs, and ourI Sir and Miftrefs to your honour and Madam : SinceTHE LIFE AND PROPHESIESthe rebellion 1715, and fince the ftock-jobbing, afool^ilh hafte to be rich hath made many poor; and manyether ways and things, living above their ilations andincomes, fpending their money on gaming, wine andwomen, have brought it to pafs. There are ibme len-tences in the end of our national covenant, that mayflrike terror to the hearts of all ranks; fuch as, Wecall the living God, the Jearcher of our hearts to ivitntfsynvho knotusth this to be our ftucere difire and unfeigned \reflation, as ive Jhall anfwer to Jefus Chrif at thegreat day, and under the pains of God's tverlaf ing•wrath, and of infamy and lofs of all honour and rejpehiin this avorId, 8c c.The next Sabbath after he went from the Benty-?rig, he preached at Auchingilloch, in the Ibuth fideof Clydefdale, and then returned to Clyde. Theweek before he was taken, he was in the Lee-wood,where he married Robert Marfhall, of Starry-fhaw,brother to the forefaid Thomas and John Matfhall,After they werp gone from him, Marion Gosper,ipoufe to John Weir, who dwelt in the Mains of Lee,two folid Chriftians and fufferers in that time, broughthis dinner to him, in the wood: In the time thereofhe faid, What induced Robert to marry this woman:this woman’s ill will overcome his^ood, he will notkeep the way long, his thriving days are done: whichfadly came to pals in every jot. A little time there¬after he was taken and put in prifon, fell in foul com¬pliance with the enemies, went home and heard thecurates, and other heps of defeftion, and becamelightly efteemed. This was the laft marriage he per¬formed, in which both he, Peden^ Cameron, andRen wick, took as littlo delight as in any piece ofthsir minifterial work, although they would neitherdiffuade or refute, having fuch a deep concern upontheir fpirits, and looking upon it as an evidence of^ |tmconcemednels with the many grievous things inthat day, and of fuch a tendency to increate their al-fliftioas; Some of them Ihortly thereafter were tak-tOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 37CD, hapged, (hot, and banifaed their wives andChiidreo put from their houfe, having no certaindweliing-ph.ce ; all which I can inliruft; fome cf allihefe beicig my acquaintance.V»:hen Marion was prefling him to eat, he (aid,Let alone, 1 cannot be preis’d •, for l took not thatmeal qf meat theie thirty years but what I could havetaken as much when I role as when I fat down.I had the h^ppinefs to hear bid! Mr. Cargill preachhi3 laft public lermon, (as 1 had feyeral times before,for which while I live I defire to blefs the Lord) inDuniyre common, betwixt Clydefdale and Lothian,-where he ie&urcd on the firft Chapter of Jeremiah,and preached upon that foul-rtfrefning text, I(a. rtxvi.two hilt verfes, Come, my people^ enter into your rham-btrSy &c. Wherein he was (hort, marrowy, and len-tentious, as his ordinary was in all his public fermonsand prayers, with the greateft evidences of concern-ednels, exceeding all that ever I heard open a mouth,or faw open a bible to preach the gofpel, with tl\egreateft indignation at the unconcernednefs of hear¬ers. He preached from experience, and went to theexperience of all that had any of the Lord’s graciousdealing with their ibuls. It came from his heart andwent to the heart; as I have heard fome of our com¬mon hearers fay, he fpake as never man fpake, forhis words wc;nt through them.He infiftsd what kind of chambers thefe were ofprotection and fafety, and exhorted us all earneftlyto d well in the c!:fts of the rock, to hide ourfelves inthe wounds of Chrifl, and to wrap ourfelves in thebelieving application of the promilcs, flowing there¬from ; and to make our refuge under the fhadow ofhis wings, until thefe fad calamities pals over, andthe dove come back with the Olive-leaf in her mouth.’Ihefe were the laft words of his iaft fermoa.Sometime that night having feveral miles to travel,not daring to leave that defart place until it uejs dark,for fear of enemies: It was contrary to his inclination38 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESto go that way, but the lady of St. John’s kirk wasprelent, who had influence upon Mr. Smith and Mr.1'oig, wio prevailed with him : Notwithftanding ofher great profeffion, he was alwaysr jealous of her,and would not go to Iter houfe, and feveval times faid,“ Whatever end Are might make, there would be“ foul wide fleps in her life.” That lady not onlyfollowed the perfecuted gofpd, but alfo frequentedprivate fociety meetings; particularly wdth thefe tw^oold Angular C'hriftians, Thomas Johrtfton in Grange-hall in Pettinain, and Francis Livcrance in Coven-toun, who were both my acquaintances.. She feve*ral times faid to them and others, that if ever fheturned from the way of the Lord, fire knew not what(he would make of thefe three Scriptures, viz. Hcb.vi. Being once enlightened, See. Heb. x. Sinning wil¬fully, &ev and that in 2 Pst. fecond Chapter, It hadbeen better for them, Sec. Yet after that, when hard cameto hard, in the t\yo daughter years of 1684 and.gy,fhe turned fo far out of the way, that fhe became aperfecutor, and would fuffer hone to dwell in her landthat would not hear the plagued curates, nor take the©a h of abjuration. The two forefai'd worthy Chrif-tians went together, to know what fire made of herforefaid feriptures; but Are would give them no ac-cefs, by caufing fhut the gates upon them, it being a-bout the middle of "hmuary 1687, Mr Cargill wentalong with her the Lugth of Ccvingtoun-miil, to thehoui’e of Andrew Fifher, and his fpoufe, ElizabethLindfay, my acquaintance, about a mile from herhoufe, near Tinto hill, but would go no further.James Irvine, of BonAraw, who formerly made atrade of fine horfes, of outfang and infang betwdxttire kingdonrs, that being difeovered, he came to thecouncil and General Dalziel, and got a general com-mifiion, although he wras no oAicer. All then knewthat the wickedefi: and vileft of m.en were then em¬ployed, that wherever he wras informed by the curfedintelligencers, that any of the Lord’s fufl'ering peopleOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 39were hiding, that the forces, foot and horfe, wereto ride and march at his command. Accordingly thatSabbath-night, at the fun-fetting, he mounted witha party of the dragoons from Kilbride, and the next/morning, at the fun-rifing he came to St. John’s kirk,twenty miles, and fearched that houfe narrowly;then came to James Thomfon’s, in the Muir-houfe,and fearched it. Many reflected upon the forefaidlady, that Die, leaving thefe worthies a few hours be-,fore that, in the time they were fearching her ownhoufe and James Thomfon’s, which took fame time,did not fend and advertife them, being only a milediftant. Next, he came to Covingtoun mill, and fur-rounded that houfe and chamber, two beds being init, where I have refted fometimes fince, where theywere' lying, and not fallen afleep •, when he foundthem, he cried out, Oh blefled Bonfhaw! And bluf¬fed day that ever he was born, that had found Inch aprize this morning; this he i^d and faid, out of hisgreat wickednefs, and profpeO: of the rich rewardthat was let on the head of Mr. Cargill to any thatwould apprehend him either quick or dead, which.was 6000 merks.They marched hard to Lanark and put the prifon-ers in the tolbooth, until the foldiers got meat anddrink; they got horfes brought them out in haiW, andfet them on their bare backs. Bpnfhaw with his owrihand, tied Mr. Cargill’s feet below' the horfe’s bellyvery hard; he looked down to him and laid, Why doyou t;e me fo hard i* Your wickednefs is great, youwill not long efcape die juft judgement of God; and,if I be not miftaken, it will feize upon you in this'! place.They halted to Glafgow, fixteen miles, fearing theprifoners had been taken from them, which many ofthe Lord’s zealous people would willingly have ven¬tured their A// to have delivered their brethren drawnunto death, ar.'d thofe that are ready to be (lain. Prov.xxiv. 11. £jV. But their taking being ib furprifing,4o THE LIFE JND PROP HE S ?ESand their march fo hafty, that they could not be coti=veened when they came near the city, they turned himupon the horfej and' led him backward j which mademany to weep to fee their old minifter in that pofture*he being for fome years fettled minifter in the Baronykirk; and fome wicked to rejoice. When they came tothe tolbooth they halted until the magiftrates cameto receive them. John Nilbet, Bifliop Paterfon ofGlafgow’s fadtor, looking over the ftair, out of hisgreat wickednefs • merrily faid, Mr. Cargill, (threetimes over in fport) In effedt, will you not give 113one word more ? This he faid becaufe Mr. Cargill iriipublic fometimes faid, In effect we will fay thatone word, or, I have one word more to fay. Mr.Cargill looked to him, and with concernednefs faid,Wicked poor man, why do ye mock? Ere yoti die*you will defire one word, and wil! not get iuShortly thereafter he was ftruck dumb, his tonguefwelling irl his mouth. Robert Goodwin and JohnHodge, two Glafgow men, who -were witneffes tothis, and went to vifit him lying in that cafe, told methis when in prifon, in the years 1684 and 85, in theCanongate of Edinburgh, Robert Goodwin deliredhim to write what ftopt him from fpeaking, and if hehad a great delire to fpeak. He wrote ! “ That itwas a juft judgement from the Lord, and the fayingsof the minifter verified upon him, for his mocking ofhirn ; and if he had the whole world, he would giveit for the ufe of his tongue againBut that he ne¬ver got.Bonfhaw hafted to Edinburgh with his prifoners."When,Mr. Cargill came before the council, chancel¬lor Rothes raged againft him, being one of the fevenwhom he had excommunicated at the forwood the•preceding year, and gave them over to their fatherthe devil, whole works they did, and to whofe fervicethey had dedicated themfelves. Rothes threatened himwith extraordinary torture, and a violent death. He> fatd,my Lord Rothes, forbear to threaten- me} for, dieOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 41what death I will, your eyes will not fee it: And'tis well known to fome yet alive, that he died thatmorning that Mr. Cargill, and thefe worthies with,him fuffered in the afternoon. Shortly after thiscompearance of Mr. Cargill before the council, Ro¬thes was feized with ficknefs and pains : And whenhe found the pangs of death tprning ftiarp upon him,he cried out for fome of his wife’s minifters (ihe be¬ing a favourer of Prelbyterian miniflers) for his mi¬nifters were good to live with, but not to die with.He fent for old Mr. John Catftairs, who with Mr.George Johnfton came to him. Mr. Carftairs dealtvery faithfully and freely with him, rehearfing ma-i! ny wicked afts of his life : To whom he faid, Wei all thought little of what that man did in excommu-1 nicating us; but I find that fentence binding on meI now, and will bind to eternity. When Mr. Johnfton,r was praying, feveral noblemen and bifhops being inI the next room, fome of them faid to the bifhops, Heji is a Prefbyterian minifter that is praying ; the devilane of you can pray as they do, tho’ your prayersi would keep a foul out of hell. Rothes roaring fo loud[1 tinder the horror of confcience, for his aftive wickedI life in perfecuting, made thefe noblemen leave himr. weeping. William, Duke of Hamilton faid. Wec banifh thefe men from us, and yet when dying, wej; Call for them ; this is melancholy work.Mr. Cargill and thefe martyrs murdered withii him, got their indiftment with found of trumpet;i When they ended their found, he faid, That’s a wea-; ry found, Lut the found of the loft trumpet will be a'joyful found to me, and all that will be found having\ on Chrijl's righteoufnefs.! While in prifon, a gentlewoman vifiting him, toldhim weeping, That the heaven-daring enemies werecontriving and propofing an extraordinary violentdeath for him : Some, a barrel with many pikes toroll him in, others an iron-chair, for his body toicaft and burn there > Jie faid, ket yon, nor none42 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESthe Lord’s people be troubled for thefe things; forall that they will get liberty to do to me, will be toknit me up, cut me down, and chop off my oldhead ; and then fare them well, they have done withme, and I with them for ever.When he and thofe with him, came to get their fen-tence of death, their indictments w'ere read, where¬in they had their fentences, as their common formthen was, viz. *• Having caff off all fear of God,“ and adled fo and fo, and therefore deferved to be“ punilhed fo and fo He faid to the Clerk, Halt;and (pointing to apoffate Sir George Mackinze thenadvocate) faid, “ The man that has caufed that paper“ to be drawn in that form, hath done it contrary to“ the light of his own confcience; for he knows I“ have been a fearer of God from my infancy j but I“ fay, the man that took the holy Bible in his hand,“ and faid, that it would never be well with the landu till that book was deftroyed, with many other“ wicked expreiliens and actions in his life; I fay,t‘ he is the man that has caff oft’ all fear of God.”The advocate ftormed at this; but did not deny thetruth of it, knowing that he had thus exprelTed him-felf, in fome of his wicked mad fits. There is yet a-live an old reverend miniffer in the fouth of Scotland,was wituefs to this and can affert the truth of it, whofeveral times fince had faid, that he admired the com-pofednefs and confidence of Mr. Cargill. While inprifon, he had written more at large, though he wasihort, marrowy, and fententious in preaching, pray¬ing, and writing, as may be feen in his few publicletters, his laft fhort fpeech, and what he fpake up¬on the fcaffold, publiflied in the Cloud of WitneffeS,which I wilh from my heart, that all the Lord’s peo¬ple would narrowly and ferioufly perufe ; they havebeen very ufeful and edifying to me and many others.His more large paper was taken from him, by thewicked curfed keepers, of that time; his fhort fpeechleft behind him, he wrote that morning before beOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 4Sdied, before eight of the clock, that die doors wereopened, and he was to fuffer that day.He and thefe worthies murdered with him, gottheir fentences of death the day before, wherein thefeadmirable and very rare fentences are to be found,viz. That that day was the molt joyful day in all hislife ; and that he had not been without an afluranceof his intereft in Chrift thefe thirty years, nor longout of his prefence ; and, that he never durft under¬take to preach Chrift and falvation to others untilhe was ftue of his own. Oh ! if all our minifters hadtaken this courie, there had been lefs defeftion a-mong us; and, That it was long frnce he durft haveventured upon death and eternity, but death re¬mained fomewhat terrible, but now the terror ofthat'was taken away, and by virtue of the merciesof God, and merits of Chrift, he had a confcienceas quiet and calm as if he never had finned.When he came to the fcaffold and foot of the lad¬der, he blefted the Lord with uplifted hands, that hei was thus near the crown ; and when fetting his footupon the ladder to go up to embrace the bloody rope,1 he faid, The Lord knows, I go up this ladder withii lefs fear, confufion, or perturbation of mind, than e-[| vet I entered a pulpit to preach. He was firfl turnedi over, Mr. Smith did cleave to him in love and uni-ty of life, fo he died with his face upon his bread.:f Next Mr. Boig, then William Cuthill, and WilliamThomfon: Thefe five worthies hung all on one gib¬bet at the crofs of Edinburgh, on that never-to-be-forgotten bloody day, the 27th of July 1681. Theenemies got this great glut of blood, the day beforeI the down-fitting of the parliament, wherein the dukeof \ ork did prelide as commiffioner. The hangmanhafh’d and hagg’d off all their heads with an axe.Mr. Cargill’s, Mr. Smith’s, and Mr. Boig’s headswere fixed upon the Netherbow-port, Will:am Cu*thill’s and William Thomfon’s upon the V/eft-port.The wicked, curled of God, and hated of allE 244 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESlight-thinking men. Bonfhaw, got not his reward of6000 merks till the next year in May, the price ofinnocent blood, precious blood, dear blood, bloodthat cries both loud and long; how lhall, or can thetyranny of Ihedding innocent blood, and defeclionsof all ranks in thofe days, be forgot ? Shortly there¬after he came to Lanark, where he and one of hiscurfed comrades fell a fighting ; his comrade thrall 1him thro’ the belly with a fword, where blood anddirt ran out. This account I had from feveral wor¬thy peribns, who were witneffes to both the threat-enings of the man of God, when he tied him hard,and to the accomplilhment thereof. Bonfhaw’s lafl■words were, “ God damn his foul eternally, for he“ was gone.” Mifchuf Jhall hunt the violent man tillhe he ruined: Which makes good the old Scots fay¬ing, “ Such life, fuch end with the molt part.”Whofo defires to be further informed of the lifeand death of bleft Cargill, let them perufe the rela¬tions that are given of him by Mr. Shields in TheHind-let-Loofe, and in the Cloud of Witneffes. Hislafl teflimony, and what he fpake upon the fcaflfold,his marrowy fententious letter to feveral prifoners■when under fentence of death, and his letter to theGibbites in the corredlion-houfe, and his letter tohis parifh, yet in the hands of fome, are to be foundin the Cloud of WitnefTes.When that blefl lingular Chriftian, zealous andfaithful minifter and martyr, Mr. Cargill, was lirflapprehended and brought before the council, theywere fierce and furious againll him, efpecially chan- 'cellor Rothes, but thofe that tvere in council andheard what Mr. Cargill faid to him, and law andheard what Rothes faid when he was dying, roaring :under horror of confcience, and his bed fhaking, puta fright upon their fpirits, and drew tears from theireyes, which verified what he faid at the.Fala-hill onthe Sabbath after the excommunication as before re¬lated, and made them to propofe in council, “ ThatOF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 45*i he was old, and had done all the ill that he woulddo, to let him go to the Bafs, and be prifoner there“ (luring life.” It was put to the vote, and Argyiefaid. Let him go to the gallows, and die like a traitor;which call the vote upon him to die, as 1 faid before.The parliament fat down the day following, July28th, 1681, which framed the curfed teft, with fevencontradiftoiy oaths in it, which Argyie took withexplication. This did not fatisfy the Duke of Yorkand others, looking upon him with an ill eye, becaufeof his father being aftive in cur reformation^ he wasimmediately clapt up prifoner in the Caftle, out ofwhich he efcaped the 30th day of December follow-|| ing: He fled fouth to the border, where he met withMr. Veitch, lateminifter in Dumfries, who conduc¬ed him thro’ the country to the houfe of Mr. Bitie-flon, near Newcaftle. After they were fet down,his acquaintance, Argyie being a ftranger, difguifed incoarfe clothes, Mr. Bitlefton faid, I have received aletter juft, now from Scotland, that Argyie has efcap¬ed out of the caftle; of which I am very glad if itbe certain. Mr. Veitch faid, he doubted not the cer-Itainty of it; They infilled both at exprtfling theirjoy at, the news. Mrs. Bitlefton being preient, laid, fcannot be fo much taken up with that -news as youare; 1 know that houfe of Argyie was a good houfefor our Reformation, and his father fuffered for it;But, for himfelf he hath been a member of thatwicked bloody council thefe 18 years, where many awicked thing have been adled and done: But, aboveall, it was his vote that took away the life of ourworthy dear friend, Angular Mr. Cargill; and I amfure his blood may lie heavy on him now, ana makehim have a melancholy flight and hiding. Argyiemade no reply. After they had got a drink, fhe con¬veyed them to different rooms; after feme time fhewent to Argyle’s room, being the greateft ftrapger.He had laid down a fine watch and night-cap uponthe table, which did i»t anfwer his clothes; he had46 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIESopened up himfelt' which perfumed the room. Shecame quickly back to her huiband, and faid, I am* perfuaded this is Argyle. He faid, I am of the famemind; but you are oft-times o’er plain in your dif-courle. She faid, no, no; ’tis good fpeaking to himnow in the day of his diftrefs; if we were once fetdown to dinner, 1 ftiali ufe more freedom. In the timethereof they came to fpeak of his efcape again, fhetook the occafion, and told all the ill things Ihe heardabout him. He faid, Argyle will not free himfelf ofmany of thefe things; but he. is not fo guilty of themall as the world reports him to be. After this. Mr.Veitch told them, that it was Argyle, and that herefolved for London. He then put himfelf in anotherdrefs, but could not have a fine horfe. Mr. Bitleftonjgilted hiin his gelding, and fent his fon John to con¬voy them, who gave me this account when he return-' ed. Argyle gave him a little purfe and thirty guineasin it: When he came to his father, he gave the purfeto him : His father faid, Johnnie, if I had knownthis, you fnould not have gone your foot-lergth withthem: There’s more here than mv horfe is worth.Mr. Witch conveyed him to London. When Mr.Weiteli parted with him, he faid to him, Give mylove and fervice to all friends where we have been,efpecially, to my free communing landlady Mrs.Litledon. From that he went to Holland, and wasabroad to the middle of May 16S5, and then cameto Inverary with feme men and many notable arms.Monmouth came to England that fame fummer.After Argyle landed, one morning walking at thewater-«lde very fad, Mr. Thomas Urquhart, who fuf-fer? d in the Grafs market that lame i'ummer, came tohim, and faid.,I am forry to fee your lordfhip fomelancholy! He laid, how can I be otherwife? I feefew coming to our affiAance ; I am perfuaded I willbe cell.d Infatuate Argyle; but all ihat does nottrouble me fo much as that unhappy wicked vete Igave againft that good man and miniilcY, Mr. Cargill,OF MR. DONALD CARGILL. 47and now perfuaded I’ll dis a violent death, in thefame fpot where he died.However, Argyle got together above 1500 men,and expected a great many more would have joinedhim, in order to oppofe the King and Council in theirbloody cruelties carried on in thefe days, but he waadifappointed, and after feveral unfuccefsful attemptswithout ever coming to any total adtion, and his offi¬cers differing among themfelves, the molt of his mendeferred, and finding it impracticable to do any thingto purpofe, he difmifled the whole, and put himfelfin difguife, but was foon taken by a few militia at thewater of Inchinnan. He was carried to Edinburghwith a flrong guard, and by order of the Councilcarried up the llreet with his hands tied behind hiaback, and bare headed, the hangman going beforehim, and lodged in the caffle : And in order to makequick work, the fentcnce that was paffed againft him1681, three years before, for his explication of thetell, was put in execution without bringing him to a-ny further , trial. While in the callle he had theferemakable expreffions in converfation with a dearfriend. “ My grofs compliances are now fad andgrievous to me: for thefe the Lord would not lonourme to be initrumental in his work, but I drfire to diein the faith of a deliverance to his church and peo¬ple ; and tho’ I will not take upon me to be a pro¬phet, yet having Itrong impreffions thereof upon myfpirit, I doubt not but her deliverance will come veryfuddenly, and I hope it ihall be well. It Is true, rnyfamily is low, and I have nothing to le<ive them j butif they feek God they will be wonderfully feen toand provided for; and if they do not, I care notwhat come of them. I fear fome have eyed me toomuch as an inftrument. Lean not to the arm ofHeffi.” The day of his execution (30th June 1685.)his Lordlhip dined with grave and becoming chear-fulnefs; and being ufed to deep a little after meat,he retired to the ciofet, and laid himfelf down oh.48 THE LIFE AND PROPHESIES, &c.a bed, and for about a quarter of an liour flept asfweetly and pleafant as ever. Meanwhile an officerof Hate came in and inquired for him. His friendstold him, that his Lofdffiip as ufual was taking anap after dinner, and defired that he might not bedifturbed. When he law the Earl in that pofture, hewas fo imprelTed, that he halted from the caltle to arelation’s in the Caftlehill, and throwing himfelf on abed, discovered great diltrefs of mind; and, whenalked the caufe of all his trouble, faid, I have beenin at Argyle, and faw him fleep as pleafantly as e-ver a man did, and he is now within a hour of eter¬nity ; but as for me, &c.His Lordlhip, when he came to the Scaffold, deli¬vered a very judicious and pious difcourfe to the fpec-tators; after which, having taken leave of his friends,he at laft kneeled down, and, embracing the maiden,faid, “ This is the fweeteft maiden I ever killed, itbeing the mean to finilh my fin and mifery, andmy inlet to glory, for which I "long.” Then heprayed a little within himfelf, thrice uttering thefewords, “ Lord Jefus, receive me into thy glory ”and lifting up his hand, which was the fignal, theexecutioner did his work.Thus died the noble Earl of Argyle, a martyrnot only to the proteflant religion, but alfo bearinghis lall teftimony againll prelacy as well as popery.His too great compliances with the man.'gers previ¬ous to the affairs of the teft, lay heavy upon him tothe laft, but nothing grieved him fo much as the un¬happy vote he gave againft Mr. Cargill.FINIS.GLASGOW.Printed by J. & M. Robertfon, £No. 18.j] Saltmarket;i 8 q