cheap tracts.Calculated to promote the Interestf of Reli¬gion, Virtue, and Humanity.No. X.nr'I rueJUSEFULLY EXERTED,AN AFFECTING STORY.“By the light of * lamp, that glimmered in the firelefs chim¬ney, he faw lying on a bare bedftead, without any other co-ia vering than the relicks of their own rag?, a man, a woman, and3i i two children, fhuddering with cold, though huddled tegetherdito fhare the little warmth which exhaufted nature ftill fuppliedJithem with.”To which is added,THE'ects of Gratitude" >V. CUSLY APPLIED.DUNBAR:i)fo:inted by G. Miller :—at whole Shop may be had a variety of; Pamphlets, Ballads, Children’s Books, Pictures, Cateclul'ms,6cc'WHOLESAlifc-Wd© RETAIL.* ^(OF SCOTLAND rJTrue Humanity ufefully exerted.•*«Ah ! little think the gay licentious proud.Wham pleafure, power, and affluence fur round;-Horn many drink the cup€f baleful grief, or eat the bitter breadOf miferj' Sore pierc'd by ’wintry winds.How many fhrink into the fordid hutOf cheerlefs poverty.AS Bencvolus was returning home frosjthe Tavern late one night, he wasaccofled by a female, who had fomethingin her air and manner fo different fromthofe out-cafts of humanity, who offerthemfclvejs to cafual proftitution in theftreets, that his curiofity was ihruck, and heflopped to take more particular notice ofher. She appeared to be about fifteen.Her figure was elegant, and her features re*gular; but want had ficklied o’er their beau¬ty ; and all the horrors of defpair gloomedthrough the languid fmile fhe forced when(he addrefied him.The figh of diftrefs, which never flruckhis ear without affefting his heart, camewith double force from fuch an objeft. Heviewed her with filent companion for feme. .. ,.| ( 3 )imoments; and reaching her a piece of gold*sibad her go home, and (helter herfelf fromdie inclemencies of the night, at fo late anhour. Her furprife and joy at fuch unex-edted charity overpowered her. She drop-ed upon her knees, in the wet and dirt ofihe ftreet, and raifing her hands and eyesoward heaven, remained in that pofture fortome moments, unable to give utterance toi he gratitude that filled her heart.Such a fight was more expreflive then allIhc powers of eloquence. He raifed her•lenderiy from xhe ground, and foothing herpith words of comfort, offered to condu&laer to fome place, where Ihe might get thatefrefhment of which fhe appeared to be ino great want. *‘0! Sir,” (faid die, pref-ing the hand that had raifed her, with herold trembling lips) “my deliverer, fent byheaven to fave me from defpair, let menot think of taking refrefhment myfelf,:i( till 1 have firft procured it for thofe whofct}'greater wants I feel ten thoufand timestif more feverely then my own.”'I “ Who can they be?” (interrupted Be-y evolns with anxious impatience) “CanI: humanity feci greater wants, than thofe' under which you are finking?”‘My father” (exclaimed Ihehurftingintojars) “ languifhing under infirmities, ac¬quired in the fervice of his country; mymother, worn out with attending on him.( 4 )cs and both periftiing of want, (heaven |te grant they are not already dead !) toge-<e ther with two infant brothers, infenfible‘fX)f the caufe of their diftrefs, and crying |ec to them for a morfel of bread, which it isc< not in their power te give.” “ Where can luch a fcene of wretched-€{ nefs be hidden from relief? I’ll go with“ you myfelf directly ! but flop ! iet uste firfh procure fome comfortable nourifh-‘c ment from fome of the houles, which arett kept open at this late hour, for a very dif-<e ferent purpole. Come with me ! w^havet( no time to lofe.”—With thefe words, hewent diredtly to a tavern, and inquiringwhat victuals were drefled in the houfe,loaded her with as much as (he could carryof the beft, and putting a couple of bottlesof wine in his own pockets, walked withher to her habitation, which was in a blindalley, happily for her not very far diftant,as weaknefs, together with, the conhidt ofpaflions ftruggling in her heart, made hericarce able to go.When they came to the door, Ihe wouldhave gone up firft for a light, but he wasrefolved to accompany her, that he mightfee the whole fcene in its genuine colours.He therefore followed her up to the top ofthe houfe, where opening the door of thegarret, fhe difcovered to him fuch a fceneof mifery, as ftruck him with aftonifhment*( i )By the light of a lamp, that glimmered inthe firelefs chimney, he faw lying on a barebedftead, without any other covering thenthe relicks of their own rags, a man, a wo¬man, and two children, thuddering vyif’icold, though huddled together to fhare thelittle warmth which exhaufted nature (11(1fupplied them with.While he flood gazing in horror atfuch complicated wretchednefs, his con-ductrefs ran to the bed-fide, and falling onher knees, “ O ! Sir! Madam !” (exclaim¬ed file, in rapture) “Arife ! I have got re-** lief from an angel of heaven.”“ Take care l” (anfwered a voice, thehollow trembling of which was lharpenedby indignation) “ take care it is not from a“ fiend of hell, who has taken advantage of“ your diftrefs to tempt you to ruin ! forwith whom elfe could you be till this time*c of night ? But know, wretched girl, thac“ I will never eat the earnings of vice andf‘ infamy. A few hours will put an end tot( my miferies, which have received the on-“ ly poffible addition by this your folly.”“ He muft be fuch indeed,” (interrup¬ted Benevolus, ftill more flruck with fen-liments fo uncommon in fuch a fituation')e( who could think of tempting her in fuchi<e circumftances to any folly. I will with-<e draw, while you arife, and then we will“ coniult what can be looneft done to allc-( 6 )viatc a diftrefs, of which you appear fo|>undeferving.”—While he faid this, hetook the wine out of his pockets, and giv- iang it to the daughter went dire&ly downilairs, without waiting for a reply, and walk¬ing backward and forwardjn the ftreets forbme time, enjoyed the lublimeft pleafurehe human heart is capable of, in confider-P.g how he had relieved, and ihould furtherrelieve the fufferings of objects fo worthy ofrelief.By the time he thought they might havelearned from their daughter the circumftan-ces of her meeting with him, and taken fome 1,nourifhment, he returned to them, when ,ihe moment he entered the room, the wholefamily fell upon their knees to thank him.Such humiliation was more than he couldbear. He raifed them, one by one, as faft ;as he could, and taking the father’s hand,*e Gracious God ! (faid .he) can a fenfe of,<cc humanity be fuch an uncommon thing ,among creatures,'who call themfelves hu-^ man, that fb poor an exertion of it fhoukl** be thought deferving of a return, proper^ to be made only to heaven ? Opprefs me“ not. Sir, I conjure you, with the mention,of what it would have been a crime, I*c could never have forgiven mylelf to haveknown I had not done. It is too late toAt think of leaving this place before to mor-** tow, when I will provide a better, if thereC 7 )is not any to which you chufe particular-1 si ly to go. I am not rich; but I thank.“ heaven, that ithasbleffed me with ability“ and inclination to afford fuch afliftancei <s as may be immediately neceffary to you,till means may be thought of for doing*£ more.”“ O, Sir,” (anfwered the mother) ** welli€< might my daughter call you an angel of<i heaven ! You know not from what mife-ry you have already relieved “ Nor will I know more of it at this time,”(interupted Benevolus'i “ than that which I“ too plainly fee. I will leave you now to“ your reft, and return as foon as it is; “ day.——tf Speak not of leaving us, Sir,” (exclai¬med the daughter, who was afraid that ifhe fhould go away, he might not return)“ What reft can we take, in fo fhort a time?<c Leave us not, I befeech you l leave ussc not in this place !” <c Ceafe, my child !” f interpofed the fa¬ther) “ nor prels your benefactor to conti-*c nuc in a fcene of mifery, that muft giveat pain to his humane heart.”“ If my flaying will not give you pain,”(anfwered Benevolus) “I will moft willingly“flay; but it muft be on condition thattf our converfation points entirely forward<t to happier days. There will be time“ enough hereafter to look back.”*——C 3 )Saying this, he fat down on the bed-fide,.{for other feat the appartment affordednone) between the hufband and wife, withwhom he fpent the little remainder of thenight, in fuch difcourfe, as he thought moffcjikeiy to divert their attention from theirprefent mifery, and infpire their minds withbetter hopes, while the children, all butthe daughter who hung upon his words,comforted at heart with a better meal, thenthey had long tailed, fell fall alleep as theyleaned their heads upon their mother’s3ap.i,flIfAs foop as k was day, “ Now, madam,”(faid Benevolus, addreffing himfelf to themother ) iil will go, and provide a place foryour reception, as you fay all places are“ alike to you. In the mean time accept of6t this trifle (giving her ten guineas) to“ provide fuch neceflaries, as you may in-“ difpenfibly want before you remove.ic When you are fettled, we will fee what“ further can be done. I fliall be back^ with you within thefe three hours at<£ molL”For fuch beneficence there was no pof-fibility of returning thanks; but their heartsfpoke through their eyes, in a language fuf-ficiently intelligible to his. Departing di- jredtly to fave both hindelf and them thepain ofpurluinga converlation that grew tooditlrefsful, he went without regard to change 1C 9 )of drefs or appearance, to look for a properlodging for»£hem, where he laid in fuehproyifions o»avery kind, as he knew theymuft imnl^jately want. This care em¬ployed WinTi till the^tiipe he had promisedto return, when he^^rid'fuch an alteration,in the looks and appearance of them all, as) gave his heart delight.<( You fee, Si^^faid the mother, as foon.!as he entered) ^ the efFefts of your bounty;“ but do not .think that vanity has madee‘ us abufe ‘it. Thefe deaths, what we4< could raife on which has for fome timetc been our foie fupport, where the purchafe“ of happier times; and were now redcem-I “ ed for much lefs than we muft have givents for the worft we could buy.” “ Dear, madam,” (interrupted Benevolus*t taking her hand refpedfully) “ mention notV “ any thing of the kind to me, I befeech.Ci you. You will foon fee fuch times a-gain.”—Then turning to her hufband, <c Ii “have taken a lodging. Sir; (continuedj “ he) it is convenient, but not large, as E“ imagined would be your choice I will* *c call a coach to take us to it dire&ly. If! “ there are any demands here, let the peo-j| i( pie of the houfe be called up, and theynj “ fhall be paid. I will be your purfe-bear-H “ er for the prefent.”“ No, Sir,” ^replied the hufband) <fthere*• “are not any. You have enabled us to dif-I ^< 1° )tc charge all demands upon us. People m*e our circumftances, cannot find credit, be-“ caufe they want it.”Benevolus would then have ffone for acoach, but the daughter infifteci on favinghim that trouble ; upofj which he put the I.whole family into it, and walked away be¬fore them to their new lodging. It is im-pcffible to defcribe what thefe poor peopleiclt, when they faw the provifion he hadmade for their reception. The father, inparticular, could not bear it, but finking intoa chair, “ This is too much !” (faid he, asfoon as a flood ot tears had given vent tothe fullnefs of his heart) “This is too much.“ Support me, gracious Heaven, who has“ lent this bell of men to, my relief, fupportct me under the weight of obligations, whichei the prefervation of thefev alone (lookingec round upon his wife and children ) could in- ^“ duce me to accept.”—Then addrefling him-felf to Benevolus, “My heart i snot unthankful“ (continued he) but gratitude in fuch ex-€i cels as mine, where there is no profpedtet of ever making a return, is the feverefl:** pain.”Benevolus, who fought none, attemptedoften to give the converfation another turn;but finding that they could fpeak or thinkof nothing elfe as yet, he took his leave,promifin’g’to come the next day, when theirminds Ihould be better fettled, to confulti( II >what more was in-his power to ferve them,having firft privately taken an opportunityto flip a couple of guineas into the daugh¬ter’s hand, to avoid putting the delicacy ofher father and mother to farther pain.Fatigued in mind and body, from theheight to which his tendered pafiions hadbeen wound up by luch a moving fcene. Be-nevolus went dire&ly home, and throwinghimfelf on a bed, flept till next morning,without difturbance from pain or refle&ion.As loon as he awoke the next day, hewent to vifit his new family, where the hap-pinefs, that gliftcned in every grateful eye,at his approach, made him happy. Afterfome general chat, “It is my duty. Sir,(faid the father) to give you fome accountof myfelf, and of the caufe of my falling in¬to that depth of mifery, from which yourbeneficence relieved me, that you Ihouldnot think it has been lavilhed on objedls al¬together unworthy of it.I am defcended from a good family, thefortune of which my father diffipated in fup-porting a parliamentary intereft for the mi-Iniftry; the only return he received forwhich, and for his voice upon all occafions,was a fmall penfion for himtelf, and a pairof colours in the Guards for me, his onlyfon, with promifcs indeed of farther provi-fion, which were all forgotten when he died,happily for himfelf, before the end of the( 12 )parliament, which as he had no prorpetH: ofbeing returned again, would have left himnt the mercy of creditors, whom it was notin his power to pay.Though I was foon fenfible that my bedhopes died with him, l was fo infatuated toa profefiion, the moft pleafing to youthfulidlenefs and vanity, that I laid out the littlefortune of this bed of women, whorh I hadmarried in my days of better hope, in thepurchafe of a company, in a marching regi¬ment ; at the head of which I flattered i«y-felf, that I fhould meet feme opportunity,in the war juft then broke out, of meriting.further promotion. But I found the vanityof fuch a thought, when it was unhappilytoo late.After feveral years careful lervice, in thecourfe of which I had fealed some degree ofreputation with my blood, in several warma&ions, without advantage to myself, orprospedt of any to my family, who nowmultiplied the cares of life ten thousandfold' upon my head, I was driven by dis-pair to exchange my company, which Ihad bought, and therefore could have foldagain, the price of which would at lead:have kept us from absolute ftarving, foran higher rank in a younger regiment,juft, then ordered upon an expedition, thecbjedt of which raised, what was thoughtrational expectation of such profit, asihould ease me from the anxieth -> that madelife a burden.Hi:( *3 )Allured solely fey this expe&ation, I went!; accordingly. The expedition was success-| tuI. I did my duty. I was wounded in| the course of it, to the extreme danger ofIf -my life. I entirely ruined my conflitutionlij by the severity of the climate ; and on myIM return home was reduced to half-pay,'i/j without receiving so much prize-money as| defrayed the extraordinary expences of theji ■expedition, and of the illness, whiah I con-traded in it; while those above me accum¬ulated such wealth, as if divided in any de¬gree of proportion, would have recompenfedthe labours of us, who had literally bornei,he heat and burden of the day, and werenow pining in discontent and misery, ag¬gravated by a partiality so severely injuri¬ous.In this fituation, I resolved to throw my¬self at the feet of my Sovereign, and im¬plore relief from the known goodness of hisheart. But his throne was furrounded byD those whose intereft it was to keep the criesI of his people from coming to his ears ; and] therefore, as it was neceffary for me to makei my errand known, I never could obtain ac-i cefs to him.I The diftress of this disappointment wasftill farther heightened by the delays in thedischarge of that half pay, which was nowToy only support; and the draw-backs it wassubjed to from the fees of office, even when{ *4 *it fliould come to be paid, which were fuch^I “tISmpted to mortgage it, thewretch’s laft resource, to put off ftarving aslong as he can, what I could get from thosevultures, who faten upon the sufferings of afoldicr, was scarce sufficient to satisfy outpresent wants. How then could I look for¬ward for a family, dearer to me then life ?What could support resolution, when hopewas gone > Mine was unequal to the trial;and I was beginning to meditate on puttingan end to a life of such misery, without con-fidering that the sufferings of those, forwhom I felt so much more than for myself,muff be ftill made heavier by such a basedesertion of them, when heaven in its mer¬cy vifited my family with a violent fever,which freed me from farther fears for thefuture welfare of my three eldeft sons, andwith difficultly spared two, whom you seebefore you. O ! my poor boys ! happy !thrice happier than us whom you left be¬hind ! Excuse this weakness. Sir, naturewill force the involuntary tear in spite ofreason; for were they not the children ofmy love ?During their illness, I loft every othercare in my attendance upon them; nor o-mhted any poffible means to preserve lives,for which my fears foreboded nothing butunhappiness ; but though their deathsfreed me from a part of those fears, theyitnit!t;tilfctto*.:itsii.it;ofti:( *5 )left a melancholy void in my heart, '“hickwas more painfql, if poffible, than any fear,SBut I was not long fenfible of that pain.,'My children were scarce laid in the grave,when the fever seized myself with such vio¬lence, that I soon loft my senses, nor re¬-covered them for above a month ; and then:only to feel the greateft wretchedness, that■ was ever heaped upon a human creature.The expence of my children’s, and myown illness, had not only exhaufted all themoney I had raised on the anticipation ofiljmy half-pay, but also obliged my wife to[mortgage several of our beft effe&s. Sucha resourse never escapes the watchful eyesiof people who keep lodging-houses. Ourlandlady no sooner perceived it, than die sei-iized upon the reft, and then turned us cut,fhe moment I could be removed without in-tant death.In this fituation, I muft have perifhed int the ftreets, had not a poor woman, whomnmy wife had been obliged to call in to heriiiiaffiftance when I lickened, fhared with us5 her habitation, in which you found us, asfhe alfo did the earnings of her daily labour,: till a chairman who was carrying a beau to.a ball, threw her down with such violence,•: for not making hafte enough out of his way,;! that fhe broke her leg, and was obligedJf to be taken to an hospital.( 16 )r Ffom that time we supported life by mor-1|gaging the few cloaths we had brought up-lron our backs, without one ray of hope tolrtempt us to look forward, till they also were Iall gone, and the misery of cold added to I ■that of hunger. In this condition, we had Ibeen two days without tailing bread, orrfeeling the warmth of fire, calling incelTant-ly upon death to put that end to our diftress-es, which a fense of religion, made ftronger kby my wretchedness, now prevented my 1daring to haften, when my daughter Holeout unknown to us to feek for charity in the *flreets, where flie wandered without meetingany thing but infults, and follicitations to :vice, till heaven directed your fteps to her,' ;Such was the reward, of more then twenty •years faithful and hard fervice, in which Ihad fought the battles of my country, in I‘|oppofite extremities of the globe, with hon¬our, and been inflrumental jn making prin- •cely fortunes for the feveral commanders,junder whom I ferved.This, Sir, is the fum of my flory, in whichI have been as brief as I could, to avoidgiving you pain. We are now your crea¬tures. The lives we enjoy are immediatelythe gift of your benevolence ; a benevo¬lence fo critically timed, (for we could not |lhave fubfifted many hours longer without it) Has to raife a hope, that Providence, which 1fent you to our relief, will not leave its work I( *7 )bnfinifhed, but lave us from falling againmto fuch mifery, by means agreeable to itspwn wifdom and goodnefs, though impof-.!ible for us in,our prefent fituation to fore-I>!ice.It was fomc time before Benevolus, whonad liftened to the officer’s ftory with fym-oathetic attention, was able to fpeak. Re¬covering himfelf at length, <cfear not;”(faidSJie, in a broken voice) “never was the righti-bus forfaken; nor—nor^—nor Ihavelomefriends, Sir, who may ferve—In the meanLime take this (reaching him a bank-note fortwenty pounds) ; I will not be refufed!jbufinefs call me for a few hours; but I willFee you again in the evening.” Sayingpis, he hurried away to hide his emotions,iwithout waiting for a reply, which indeed>'their gratitude left them not the power tosmake. He immediately applied to a noble-Sitpan, who held a diftinguifhed ftation underijpe government, and who honoured Bene-ovolus with his particular intimacy ; to himohe related the melancholy flory, which fadeeply affeded his fympathetic heart, thathe inftantly gave the father a place ol con-[jfiderable profit under him, which enabledpis virtuous fufferer once more to make hbfamily perfcdiy happy.THEEFFECTS of GRATITUDETIMEOUSLY APPLIED.—a»ee€M»»«<?=»— “ She looks^ methinkSyOf old Acafto's line; and to my mindRecalls that patron of my happy /jte.From ’whom my liberalfortune took its rifefiFlow to the dujl gone down ; hit houfes, lands.And once fair-fpreading family, diffolv'd.Romantic wifhl would this the daughter were fWhen,Jirict enquiring, from herfelf hefoundShe was the fame, the daughter of his friend.Of bountiful Acafto ; who can fpeak“The rhingled paffions that fur pris'd his heart,And thro’ his nerves in fhivering tranfport ran?And art thou then Acafto's dear remains !She, whom my rejllefs gratitude has foughtSo long in vain ? , j tFhd poverty's cold wind, and crufhing rain.Beat keen, and heavy, on thy tender years ?O let me now, into a richer foil,Franfplant thee fafe!”CLAUDIAN and Curio were two youngperfons educated in the fame houfe,and brought up to the lame bufinefs, underthe fame mafter; but with this difference,that Claudian was the fon, the other the fer- IC 19 )vant of the worthy Morillus, and the for-i; mer had a confiderable independant fortune,, while the latter had no eftate but honeft in-duftry.Some years fince, the parent and mailerij dying, the young traders were left to them-l] felves: Curio declined an offer of partner-il fhip with his young mafler, merely becaufei it was more then he could in reafon expect:Iand Claudian generoufly advanced him afum of money to engage in trade with forhimfelf, as a reward ior his difinterefted-fc nefs.Curio, who knew he traded at prefentI with another’s flock, and had only induflry► and frugality for the means to repay theloan, ancf fetd6 himfelf in eafe and happi-nefs, became the mofl diligent trader, andgreatefl Have to a fnop that ever kept one.—! ISo debaucheries over night kept him in bedthe next morning, and his doors were openr two hours before, and at lead an hour af-1 ter any of his neighbours.—Curio lived inhis fhop, and knew no idle moment there :! his conftant attendance brought him con-flan tbufinefs ; his obliging behaviour, andthe probity of his dealings made every cufto-mer a friend to him, fo that whoever once|i bought of him, never afterwards bought anywhere elfe.The firft year’s balance gave him powerto pay his generous benefactor, which he( 20 )did with the warmeft thanks; and beforcj*another was elapfed* he was become the: jifavourite of every worthy perfon in thsllneighbourhood ; and the fobriety of his life jrecommended him fo far to the clergyman jof the place, one of the worthieft of his func¬tion, that he found no obftaclc in the way oi|jhis addrefles to this gentleman’s daughter. |His better fortune made no alteration inihis temper ; he naturally indeed entered onfa fomewhat more expenfive way of living jon his having a wife, but fhe was as frugaland as prudent as himfelf, and they foon |calculated a certain ftandard of expence,fbmething within what their prefent profits |would afford, and determined to fave a little 1from that till their increafe of trade fhouldenable .them in the fucceeding years to fpendmore, without being more extravagant. Itis eafy to conceive that fuch a family muff Ifave money yearly ; and> in fhort, the end Jof the fecond year fa\y them worth morethan from fuch a capital, and from fo fmall |fopcnrmfncrs- nne. vvoiild^eYneci:.—While this Ibeginnings, one woukhexpedl.—While this Uwas the life of Curio,, his young mailer, |whofe eafy fortune fet him above the need- |fity of induftry, was carrying on the fame Htrade in a very different manner.It is the mod dangerous of all errors, |though too common a one, for a man to im¬agine he can play with bufinefs, and dowhat he pleafes when his affairs are calywithout it. There is no middle date in the |j( )trading world ; induftry will bring riches,,’Nidlenefs beggary, nor is there any fettled: knedium between thefe.| Claudian feemed indeed to have all theTalfe notions of the generality of our young, traders ; and too many in this city are ruin-bd daily by the fame, yet that they are ftill^propagated among numbers as the fecretsof. trading, is a truth as certain as the gofpei."I ClaudianJs affairs began now to run great-y behind-hand, without his knowing it;put that which others plan out as a lafl re¬lief when they find themfeives juft going,iwas now likely to prove fo to our youngi gentleman trader, without his knowing it.A. young lady who accidentally came in-'O his fhop one day, when he was prefenr,c ook away both what fhe bought, and herttiradefman’s heart alfo.I In fhort, Claudian watched her home.|He was prudent enough, before he went(any farther, to inform himfelf whom fhe. was, and found her to be a perfon of a goodtfamily, with ten thoufand pounds fortune,u As Claudian was a man of a polite andEngaging behaviour, he foon found means[ l)f introducing himfelf into the family ; andis he imagined himfelf more than an equalf.rnatch for her, he made it his firft ftep tofettle matters with her father. This manhjiad indeed no liking to this fort of gentle-ijliun-trading that Claudian carried on ; butC 22 )liis private fortune made him appear unexeeptionable in refpedt of money, and lootconvinced the old gentleman of the advan¬tages of his way of carrying on bufinefsHe found Ids difficulty to get the lady’:confent than her father’s, and all was harmony and good underftanding between themWhen things were in this flate, the lady’fortune was enquired more in earneft intoon Claudian’s part, and his, on her father’sNo miftake appeared about hers ; but, alas!,the looking into his affairs on this occafion,,was the firft notice the intended bride¬groom had of his approching ruin. Hisbooks were indeed full of long debtsand the current account of cafh initrade was fomething conliderable, but his|fortune-^ was almoft all drawn out of his banker's hands, and though he had much moreowing to him than from him, yet his debts]to his traders were not fmall.The old gentleman, in confequence of allthis, now refufed his daughter; the diftrefson her part, as well as Claudian’s, was veryiincere and affe&ing, and they parted withithe fincereft agonies on both fides, nor couldthe intreates of the old people prevent theyoung lady from engaging herfelf by a moftfolemn vow, never to marry any other per-fon.Claudian now began to new model his af-afairs, to colled his money and call in hisdebts; but his fervams went off in the high( 23 )liith a great part of his r^ady cadi. ManyIlf his debtors were dead, many more dif-lerfed in the prifons abroad.—But his cre¬ators were ready enough to make their ap-sarance : they had heard that his treaty ofarriage was broken off; they had heardfo on what occafion. The consequenceas, that they all fell upon him at once, and,ized both his person and his remainingfeds. Happily, in this exigence, he re-illeded the man he had once been gen-ous to ; he thought on Curio : him hemt for immediately, gave him full poweri: ad for him, and befought him to endea-our at bringing his affairs to a com portion,this grateful man engaged himfelf withoutMitation for the whole, relieved his friend,ok him home, called in.his debts, andbde up the remainder of the payment outthis own fortune. Nor did he flop here,t taking him afide one day, “ My dearfaid he, {C there was a time inInich you were fo generous as to offer me ai.rtnerfhip I had no right to exped. Myhfinefs is now as valuable as yours was;:n ; but whereas you owed me nothing, Innnot but remembc., I owe every thing tou : my gratitude therefore prompts me toake the lame kind of offer at this day, asiur generofity urged you then to db.—Ac-ipt therefore freely, and without fcruple,||j equal lhare of all that your goodnefs has«tbblea me to procured'' ( 24 )It was not without difficulty, that Claudi;%vas prevailed on to come into the viewshis friend. However, being importunedhe at laft accepted the generous offer ; anhaving fo done,, refolved to make himfelworthy of it. Every one faw the goodne j|of Curio’s heart, and every one was no jwitnefsto the change it wrought in hisfrienr Iwho quickly became more diligent than 1!had ever been remifs.—-Succefs was the ndrural confequence of the united efforts «|the merchants. Claudian had now nothinto kment fcftit the lofs of his love, who:idea was too Wrongly imprinted in his minfor him ever to forget her. But in this toefortune was now favourable to him.—A relaticof his dying, left him a fum twice as largas he had at firft poffeffed. Enrapturewith the opportunity of making at once borhimfelf and his lovely miftrefs happy, t|flew dire&ly to her, renewed his addreffe!and eafily obtained the confent of her psrents.—He married this idol of his hear |threw his whole fortune into trade, in whicCurio continued his partner; their familiciwere united, and they lived in harmony s. mong themielves, and a bright example cail about them.FINISPrinted by C Miller, Dunbar.