A N% <4. *♦• > ►AC C O U NT • •Of the lafl: Words of/ £CHRISTIAN KER* « f -'V;*Who died at Edinburgh, on *the<1.‘i^t^ 'qf' Fe-bruary 1702; in the i ith Yeajrvo^^r'Age.A * V®Shewing how much fhe wa^ favilhed with,the AiTurance of her Intereft. io Chril:,.and the hope of Heaven. ' *There is added a Conclulion, containing thffUfe and Improvement of what is related.»* «■y\By Mr: ARCHIBALD DEANSMinifter ot the Gofpel at Bowden.4'C —•Maith. xix. 14. Suffer little Children to cortie unto mtf,for of fuch is the Kingdom of Heaven,: xxi. 16. Out of the Mouth of Babes and Sucklings“ tljou haft perfedted Praife.Ifa, lltv- 20. The Child (hall die a i hundred Years old.BDtNBURGH, Printed and fold by Archibald MarfiiS• * " oppofltc the Foot of Forreftcr’s Wynd, 1759.A * ^Pri$e On; Penny)o'‘*61 i‘f'■; ..■C 2 3TO THER E A D EChriftian Reader,HE Pareiits of this child, who have in- jtereft in my parifh, had remarked in jwilt thefeenfuing fpeeches, immediately af-ter bearing them, for their own comfort, and |the private ufe. of their furviving children, Ibeing far from any defign of publifhing them j'to the world. But when they were revifed, |it was found they did evidence fo much of |the fpirit of grace and adoption in the child, ,that it would be a fault to fupprefs them,and not to fend them abroad for the pubhck I’ benefit, td the conviftion and edification of jOthers} for which the parents of this child,were fiom time to time lolicited to aflow thefame to be printed. Such difcoveries ofChrift, and communications of grace vouch-fafed to a child, are rare and admirable, andtherefore fhould not be let pars without no¬tice Albeit the body of t his child was broke, 1and made like a skeleton through long trou¬ble *, yet her words were wife, and regular,and exprefs’d with great vehcmcncy and ar¬dour, for the deep imprefitons of Chrift, andthe recompcflce'of reward, that were on her |C 3 1fpirit- I hope none will queflion the follow¬ing relation, when they confider that lome ofthe minifteis of Edinbyrgh, whofe names arementioned, were ear-witnelTes to feveral paf-fages contained therein.' How precioas and; defirable a thing is divine grace at death?Guilt breeds confounding horror and anguifli,I grace outlafts the things of time - thefe arelick of confumption } but grace is incorrup¬tible and everlafting-.It is the effe&ofele&ingmercy, and the feed of glory. Chrift is thefountain of communications or the fpriijghead of grace-, he is full of wifdom, beauty,i fwectnefs, love, and a fcreen betwixt believ¬ers aud eternal wrath And therefore a partin Chrift is worth a million of worlds. Ifthis little book may conduce to the good offouls, 1 have my defign and defire, which thatthe God of all mercy, and the fattier of glorywould accompiifh effedtually, is the prayer ofhim, who is,Bowden June, Your Servant in the Gof-»7th, 1702.pel and Kingdom of» Jefus Chrifl.ARCH. DEANS.( 4 )An Account of fome of the lad Words of iCHRISTIAN KER.THIS child was under a difeafe of body from the ftxth i'1Year of her age, which gradually confumed the moi- (‘fture and ftrengtlr of it, till at the fovereign pleafure of!.God, it put a period to her life in this prefent world. She iwas of a wile and acute natural judgment, which on occa. |fions lire gave evidence of, by her witty and pertinent fay-1,ings. But moft memorable in her piety towards God ;which, tho’at fometimes it fufiered decays and abatement, ithro’ the prevalency of the old man of prevailing corrupt!* ion, yet at other times when the fpirit af life returned again,appeared in her, after as remarkable and lignal a manner, |as a petlbn of that age was capable of. A great mean of |her blefled temper, in fubordination to the eternal purpole J:of free grace, we may warrantably judge was her educati-on, by religious example and counfel, whereby fhe was |1marie more and more to fee the vanity of the world, and j|abandon the love of it.About fourteen months before her death, flie was undergreat fear and dread of the wrath of God, and continuedfive or fix weeks in that cafe. Then on a certain nightabout eleven of the clock, Ihe called on a perfon, wholename I forbear to mention, that was befide her in .theroom, and asked who was in the room . That perlbn an-fwered, there is none but I. If none elfe be thei«e, faidfile again, I mull tell you this has been a ftrange day to me.Why fo ? faid the other: She anfwered, It has been a dayof marfy doubts and fears, but I tell you good news, theLord hath delivered me out of them all, and I know hewill make me happy. At which words, the perfon belide herwas much furprifed, knowing that Ihe had been undertrouble of mind for fome time bypaft. O ! faid the per¬fon, How have you come to that comfortable outgate ?Tell what way have you done it, You ought to be wary,for oftentimes fatan ftrives to make perfons fit down on afalfe hope, when there is no true ground of peace .- Areyou* ' '( 5 ) .fow comforted becaufe God is merciful, and you truft inthat ? Or do you believe that Chrift died, and truft in tha* ?Or is there any promife in the foripture, that you are madeto lay hold on ? Upon all which she interrupted the perfonhat fpoke and cried, it is he that faid. That whofoevericometh to him, he will in no wife call out. And I am furel have done that, and I will truft in him. After which timeIslie was never known to be under terror.Two of her near relations being prefent with her onTuefday the 27th of January, 1702, she cry’d out to oneof them, Oh if it were not the hope of heaven, I could notbear this my trouble. The perfon to whom she fpake an-fwered, yea my dear, heaven will make amends for all. Towhich she rep!yvd, yea, there are no fores there. It maybe at death there will be fome pain, but that will foon beover . There are two places of fcripture very comfortableito me*, the one is, ‘ Suffer little children to come unto me.for of fuch is the kingdom of heaven : The other is, ‘ Ini the volume of thy book it is written of me, I delight to doI thy will, O my God.’ After which words, she prefently1 cried out, O to think how willing Chrift was to die for finners!On Saturday thereafter, being the 31ft of the faid month-,she was feized by licknefs, and perceived that the inftantof1 her departure was drawing near. From that day forward,the Lord in a further meafure manifefted to herfelf,and gaveto others, that she was paffed from death unto life, or a vef-fel of mercy deligncd for glory. How much was she ena¬mour’d with Jelus Chrift i Did not a thoufand, and ten thou-fand worlds feem to her as nothing in comparifon of him!| Was not her heart lifted with the contemplation of Para-\ where (he would get a crown on her head and ^fong inher mouth ! How affectionate was (he in commending Chrift:to others, for the fenfible experience fhe hadaif him her felf!Upon the day above mentioned, at night,feeing her motherlooking to her, (liecried out, O mother! O mother! I amgoing to get Chrift, I now hope in him, he will not leave me :O rejoice and be glad with me ; I have given myfelf to him,he will not forfake me; I am going to get a glorious crown, 4crowni( 6 )crown of many pardons. Her father coming to her, dieintfeated him alfo to icjoice, and faid, You would rejoiceif I were healed of my bodily trouble, and would cer¬tainly have loved that perlbn that W'ould heal me-, butfhould we not love Chrilt more, that will heal my foul,and take me to himfelf, and make me ever hapny I donot defire to live in the world. Father, if you could giveme the whole univerfe, I would rather die, CJirifi hath diedfor me, Chrift is better to me than all the world ; I trullto the merits of Chrilt ; upon the crofs he boueil hts headand gave up the gholt ; having faid, It is finifhed. Atthe repetiton of which words Ihe feemed to exult and tri¬umph.Mr. George Andrew, one of the minilters of Edinburgh,having come to vifit heron the Lord’s day the firlt of l-’e-hruary, and asking at her, how (he was ? She anfwcred, Iam not well, but I will be well. Being interrogate, if Ihawas content to die ? She faid. Yes. Where is your hopethen ? faid he : She replied, In the merits of Chril, lie hasdied for me. When he enquired, What halt thou donethat makes thee believe that Chrilt died for thee i I know,faid (he, 1 defervs damnation inltead of falvation. but he’sa good 'jult God, 1 have given myfelf away to him, andhe hath faid, whofoever comes to him, he will in no wile'caft out. The fame day at night holding her brother Ro¬bert by the hand, (he fpoke to Uim on this ways : My dearRoby^ feek the Lord, love CJirilt, give yourfelf away ushim, and he will keep you : Altho’ you Should have ma¬ny enemies againlt you, the Lord will prelervc you, andeven as lure as your hand is in mine, you’ll find him if youfeck him. I am going to get a crown of glory to my head,and a fong ofpraife in my mouth. To her filler Margaret,alfo Ihe faid, My dear filler Meg, feck the Lord, give yourfelf a Way to him, and he wiil be found of >au. Give yourfielf away once, twice, or thnee unto him, and as fuie asyou lee your mother’s hand in mine llhe then had-her mo¬ther by the hand) you will get him. ’Tis true, if yqp ttythis way, Tatan will be your enemy,'as he hath been n+mc' - V - : ' fur '- r ( 7 )lor iome time ; when I liad words in my mouth to pray,the thought has been taken out of my heart. Then look¬ing to her mother, (he faid, Ay mother, and when thethought has been brought back to me again, I have bieffedCod for it.: But that is nothing, (faid (he to her (literagain) feek God, he will defeat fatan- Dear K: eg, fee youpray your felf, and fee you caufe Ketty (or Katharine ano¬ther lifter) to pray, far (he is young and 1 need not (peak. .to her. Oh Jolmy, Johny, (this was theyoungelt child intile family) what fhall I fay of Johny ? I even leave him.upon God. Read much the book (that is the holy Iciip-tiires) my long trouble hath made me not get To much readas I would, but I blefs God I have found much good ofthe book.On Monday ad of February, at night, her mother anda gentlewoman.of the city, and two domeltick women fer-vants fitting by her, (he took her mother by the hand, andlaid, Dear mother, do not grieve for me, but rejoice with,me in my joy ; although I have gteat trouble in niy body;yet it is not fo great as you think, it is from the Lord,and I bear it, he will iupport me, his ever'alting arms willbear me up. You perhaps mother, fee a tear come fome-timcs in my eye ; but do not think that it is either (ear orpain, for it is not (o, it is rather joy, dear mother, remem¬ber I was but lent to you; I know when you borrow anything, you are as willing to give it back again,.as you were:o borrow it, and will you be unwilling to give me-back toGod, who lent me-to you? If the Lord (hould take all thereft of your children from you, would you grudge, if hemakes a good account of them, as he is now doing of me ?Do not grieve or weep then, ,as lor me, I will not weep onetear; for I can part with fatlit r and mother, and all theworld for Chfilh After this, (he earnellly defired of hermother, that flic would not look much upon her wlierv Ihewas dying, Lil (he fnould be troubled thereat ; the Lord,ItiiJ (lie, will be with ate, his rod and (taff will comfort me.And hearing her mother fay to foate that were bdida her$!:C 8 )in the room, Oh fucb a child and comerade (he hath been !file reply’d, Oh'mother, God will make up the want of meto you, take him for your comsrade. Oftentimes I havefpaken of worldly things to divert you, but God will con-verfe with you, of things concerning your idnl; I hope tomeet with you in heaven; for I hope be is your God andmy father's God, and 1 hope he will be my brethren andfilters their God; be not concern’d for parting a little now,for I hope we lhall all meet again. Oh! what a glorior-smeeting will it be, when we fhali all meet in heaven. WhenIhe had fpoken thefe words, her mother faid to her. Mydear child you have fpoken much, and have exhaulled muchof your fpirits by fpeaking; remember your body is veryweak, iy Itili a while and relt. To which fheaniwered, Itdoes me no hurt, it is not my weak body that is fpeaking,it is the fpirit of God thatfupports my weak fpirir ro fpeak.She cried our often-times under ravilhtnent of joy and love,I fee him coming leaping over tile mountains, and skipping(Over the hills of my lins j Ire is breaking down the partitionwalls I have raifed.Mr. John Law, another of the minifters of the city,Came to her on Tuefday the third of the faid month, andasking her how flic was? fhe anfwered, I hope I am goingto Chrift, he will not leave me, 1 truft in him, he is on hiscoming now. Being enquired at, if flic was willing to die?"Yes faid fhc I am willing, that in life or death, the Lord dowith me what he pleafes, if he makes me his, which IhopeJu- wil! do, for hens a good God, he will bear me up. Ihope Cbrift is pleading for me with his father; he will bewith me when I go through Ihe dark valley and ihadow ofdeath, and his rod and ftafT will comfort me, and I will get« giorious crow.-., a crown of many pardons. You multhave many bus, faid the miniller. feeing you have lb manypardons. ' Yes laid Die again, I have had many lins, manyblack i’corcs of them, but there’s a pardon at every fcorc,and I will hope in him, he will not leave me. When Ihewas afliei, if fht ufed to pray ? Jhc reply’d. Yes I uftd tqpayjway, and I blefs God, I have had many fweet returns aprayer. Thar is ftrange, faid Mr. Law to hear thee fpeakof returns of prayer. What call you returns of prayer •'She anfwered, That which I prayed unto God for to me, isnow returned all unto me. Being allied afterwards, by onewith whom (he had often u(ed much fieedom, if (he wouldtell particularly what fome o( thefe returns of prayer werethat (he had got ? She faid, I know that 1 fought of God thathe would give me the laving knowledge of him, and I hopethat he hath done it; I know alfo it was fought of God forme, that whatfoever he did with me, he would work afav-ing change upon me, and that if it was his will, he wouldgrant I might b« made to declare that he had done greattilings for my foul. And hath he not done it? Hath heHot done it ?In the afternoon of the fame day, Mr. James Webfler,another miniller of the city, coming to vifit her, asked herhow she was, and what she was doing? She anfwered I amgoing to Chrilt; I will meet him. I’ll get a crown of glorv1 upon my head, and a long of praife in my mouth : this isput a iroubiefome world \ and for my part, I heve had little(>t nothing but troubles in it. De asked at her, what shebought of fin ? She replied I know fin is an ill thing, and Ileferve damnation, but he is a good God, and I will trull inji'ini. Being interrogate if there were any particular fin thatij'rieved her: She anfwered. Yes, 1 have ncglefted prayerk hen I might have performed it. What more particular finso you think on, (aid he? 1 hat, faid she, is the particularn. Did you never play, faid he on the Sabbath day ? Yesid she, and I have been very grieved (or that fin. Welllid he, are you content to die ? Yes, faid she. Then tell'C ingenuouily, laid he, and over and over he preifed her( be ingenuous with him, if you could have life for ash, whether would you chute to live or die ? I wouldpie to die, faid she, what is the world? Chrilt is betterm a tlioul.md worlds. I mull tell you, that wittingly orowingly 1 never made a lie. What think you of Put,i he again, folk may have many fins, and yet not beguiltyk.( TO )guilty of lying. Had you ever any terror of God ? Yes,replied Ihe ; What made that ? faid he. I have wantedGod then, faid Ihe, but I have got him now. Thereafterihe lay cjuiet mote than an hour, as if Ihe had been falla deep ; and then in a tranlport of wonder and delight, Shecried out. O I think I fee heaven ! I think I fee heaven !ihat is glorious news indeed, laid a perfon that was belidcher at the time. Oh ! faid (he again, ij I could tell you■what it is like, if I could tell you what it is like! Saw youever burning gold, faid Ihe till another perfon that wasaUb in the room ? The walls and the (beets of the city arclike burning gold, and I think I lee the laints atrajed inwhite there. Havmg (poke thefe words, Ihe was in'errup-ted by a perfon’s entering the room whom Ihe die not wellJtnow. „ .After eight o’clock at night, feeing her brother Robertin the chamber, the laid, Roby, kils me, and then added,This nyay be the hit kih you will ever get from me; I everloved Roby well; love you Chrill; I cannot (peak much( II )ticu'ar account can be given of it: Had there been a eje-Jign at full of publiihing her fpeeches to the woild, a gieat¬er collection niight have been made, but her patents hav¬ing no thought of committing them to print, a great partCt them were pretermitted. Somtwitat of Mr. Hamilton’sipcech to her was, that he ufed to go to perfons on hek-|! beds, and on their death-beds, to Ipeak to them for theiredification, but child, laid he, I think God hath called mehither to be edified by thee. O that an tyhielt were nowhere; nwy not this confute thofc vvh > deny God, and thepower of God ; here is a fetrtion indeed. I know not faidMr Crichton, what I can do here, but pray with the child,and thank God on her behalf; for out of the mouth of1 babes and fucklingshe will perlite his praiie.On v/ednefday being the fourth of the month forefaid,i tibouuenof the clock in the forenoon, tills bird of paradifeJinilhed her courfe. She was not afraid of the king of ter¬rors; her Redeemer being hung r n ihe crofs, took awayfron her the Ring of death, and changed the king of ter¬rors unto the king of defires. Upon the wings of joy andj delight did Ihe march unto the kingdom of God where nov/1 flic beholds the orient beams oi the Sun of righteoufneis,and drinks of the wine of the hdavenly Canaan, and feeds,on the eternal fruits of the tree of life, and hears t!ie mu-lick of the ang-li, and relts on the bed of glory, which is: perfumed with love. If the joy offaith was io fweet, how1 lavishing mult the joy of fruition be, if die exalted and a-» dored Chrilt fo much at a diitancc, wliat wonder and de-1 light is Ihe now tranlported within the chamber of prefencelwe arc yet in the fea of trouble; but she has got into theJ harbour, where she will (in and fuffi.r no more, but exaltj ihe oraites of free grace, as long as immortality endures.( 12 )CONCLUSION,Containing the Improvement of the pre«feeding Relation.HAT is above related ferves, in the firft place, forinformation; and in the fecond place, for confu-1. It informs us of the excellency of Chrift, fince thelaints,or all fuc'n as hsuve opened eyes, do in life and dedt'h,fo much admire him, love him, flee to him, depend on himlong for him, rejoice in him, magnify and adore him, do andendure for him : It follows that he mult be the fountain ofbleflednefs, a wonder of delights, and a conltellation of glo¬ries. Who can fet a value upon Chrift 1 He is betterthan the foul, than the angels, than heaven. He delightsthe father with his lovelinefs, enriches the eleift with hiswotds, and enlightens, heaven with his brightnefs. Infcrip-ture he is called, ‘ The Cleft in whom the Father’s foul,• delighteth, the image of rhe invifible God, the invifible• God, the mefllnger of the cov#nant, the lirft and the laft,• the prince of tWtkings of the earth, the mediator betwixt‘ God and man, our palfover facriliced for us, the Lord ourrighteoulriefs, the Lamb of God that taketh away the fins‘ of the world, the hope of glory, the truth and the life.’He’s the way; as a prieft. he has made a way ; as a prophet,he (hews us the way; as a king, he enables us to walk inthat way, at the end of which is heaven and glory.2. The preceeding relation informs us, how mightyand powerful the fpirit of the Lord is; he perfefts ftrengthan Wcaknels; by him the heart is enlarged, and the mouthopened ; the heart is enlarged with jay and love, and themouth is opened into gracious fpeeches, and high praifes.A very child is made to fpeak wifely, boldly, fweetly,jfruitfaily, ijnweariedly, and triumphantly, through hisoperation and virtue. A perfon is not llraitned that hasrile fellousnip of the fpirit; he hath both raifed affefti-tation«ns and affluent language. ‘ Cor. iii. 17. Where the fpi-‘ rit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Job xxxii. 18. I am‘ full of matter, and the fpirit within me conftnineth me.* Adts ii, 4. They were filled with the Holy Choft, and* began to fpeak with other tongues, as the fpirit gave them* utterance.’3. The foregoing relation informs us that religion andgodlinefs is no vain and fanciful thing ; but a thing moltreal, fubltantial and uleful ; It has truth for the groundof it, joy for the companion of it, and heaven for the re^ward of it. If God be true, then godlinefs is true, Acdeath, the wilful negleft of godlinels confounds a man,and makes him ready to tear himfelf with his own hands ;but the confcionable pra&ice thereof begets holy triumph] in God, and how fweet is that ! The unfpeakabie gain ofgodlinefs should entice us to begin and profecute theftudythereof with all fpeed and diligence. ‘ Ifaiah xxxii. 17-‘ The work of righteoufnefs is quietnefs, and adurance for‘ ever. Prov. xiv. 32. The wicked is driven away in his‘ wickednefs^ but the righteous hath hope in his death.* Pfal, xxxviii. 37. Mafic the perfect man, and behold‘ the upright, for the end of that man is peace. And Pfal.‘ xcvii. r. Light is fown for the righteo-’s, and gladnefs' for the uptight in heart. Prov. xi. 18. To him that fow-‘ eth righteoufnefs shall be a reward. X Tim. iv. 8. Godli*‘ nefs is profitable to all things, having the promife of the‘ life that is, and that which is to come.’In the ad place, which is above related ferves for con¬futation. It may confute athvillical perfons, who flyinlblently in the face of God, and offer a diredt blow tothe Almighty, denying his being, providences and eternalrecompemes: foolish perfons, did God give you fouls toj deny him ? Do not the rifmg and fetting of the fun, theblowing and turning of the winds, the gathering, balan¬cing, and dropping of the clouds, and running of the wa¬ters into one place, the growing of the herbs and trees,the fmging and the nettling of the birds, the ebbing andflowing of the fea, the hanging of the earth in the air,The admirable virtue of loadftone in attraction of iron,the. • T4 >Hie fucceflive proJu^mn of living creatures, the sdjuftingsof'deftths unto births, To as the one neither hinders the mul¬tiplication of mankind, nor the other overftocks the world ;do not thefe, I fay and innumberable other inftances claimthe natural being and wife providence of God ? What alltlpenduous frame and mechnnifm is the body of man ! dothnot the curioufnefs,variety, dependance,and ufefulnefsof theparts thereof, (hew forth the admirable art and contrivance ?Was there ever a houfe but it had a builder, or a watch butit had a maker, or a pitfure but it bad a limner? Even fo,can we fuppofe, without doing violence to common fenfe,that fomany regular and ufeful productions as are in the (y-ftem of the world could be formed and managed without the, hand of an almighty and intelligent agent? Wherefore wemuft conclude that nothing is more evident, than the beingand providence of a God? fince there are as many demon-ftrations thereof as there are creatures in the univerfe, andas there.are parts in every creature. ‘ Rom, i. 22. The is-* vilible things of him from the creation of the world are‘ clearly leen, being undcrftood by the things that are made,‘even his eternal powerand god head. Pfaim. cxxxix. 14.‘ I will praife thee for I am fearfully and wonderfully made*marvellous are thy works 1The exiftance of God being abundantly demonftrablefrom the general compofttion of the world, and from thenature, virtues tendencies, and ules of particular beings itfollows necelfarily, that there is a (late of eternal recompenleafter this life; becaufe jullice, as Teen in rewarding of thevirtuous and punilhing the vicious, is of the effence of God.even as light is of the nature of the fun, without which wehave not a compleat and right idea or conceptb-M of him as.the fountain of all perfections, Gen. xvi- 35. Shall not thejudge of all the earth do right ? Rom. x. 18. The wrath otGod is revealed from heaven againil all ungodlinefs and un-righteoufhefs of men. 2 Thef. ). rt, 7. It is a righteous Ithing with God to recompenfe tribulation to them who ftrouble you, and to you who are troubled reft with us, whenthe Lord Jcfus Chrift (hall be reveald from heaven. ThedentalC Tj )•denial of an after flatcof rewards and puniflimentsis againftthe general traditions of the world, or common fentimentsof mankind, whether Jews, Turks or Chriftianr, all Which, >tho’ they differ in many things, yet do agree in this, that the:good (hall pc bleffed and the bad wretched, in another world.And as it is againft the general tradition of the world, fb itcontradifts the proper experience both of wicked and piousperfons cn their death-beds, which is of more force than athoufand oppofite arguments. What a hellilh fling haveI the ungodly felt in their confciences, when they were on.the brink of eternity, and of another world. In the time *of health and profperity, fin has been fa'eet to them likehoney, but affrighting and bitter has it been to them whenI they came to die. Then they have defired tire counfelsj and prayers of minifteis, and confeffed to them their follyand negligence : though they have treated them with con¬tempt and fcorn at another time. What a worm did FrancisSpira feel? He was like a living man in hell; how deepwere his convidtions ! how frightful his looks! how def-perate his complaints1 how grieveous his agonies! wasf. he not fond of making away with himfeif with his own handsI amidft his horror and anguilh ! I have had a little pleafureI here, laid Rodger; but now [ muft away to hell for ever-i more. Chaianer was a moft dreadful monument ofjullicc,j he blafphemed the God of heaven, curfing himfeif and cry-I ing out continualy, O torture, torture ! O torture, rorture l! as if both foul and body had pecn already in hell. Befides1 what fenftble experience have the godly at death, of theirafter recompence? Are not they fometimes put into heavenbefore, and banqueted with the anteppafts of that joy th$tiravifhes the bleffcd to all eternity! the above mentionedkhild was an apparent inflance to this purpofe; she had thelillapfes of the fpirit, the incomes of Chnft’s love, the views(and glimpfes of the land of promife, which made her glad tojleave the world, and be ever with the Lord. Martyrologiespiye us account that themartyrs went as clvearfully to death forChriftV/C j6 V^Chrift, as people do fo their games and pa dimes, 'tjvfeeling of divin^conlolations, and their aflurance of eter.nal recompence, rrride •t.hem untlervalue life and en\br^c9-torments. rbBjpangs pf-their tnve were Aronger th^n'tli'e*.pangs oi ddath ;* they were glad they had any-thinffto Ipfefor Chrilh I'cannot difpuA4or Chuid, but I Can burn forChrifl, faith one, IViethinks you do draw rofes under myfeet, faid another, when the fire was kindled beneath him*If every hair of my head, faid Ardiile, were a man, I wouldburn all for Chriit. Ye feek a miracle from us, O ye Pa-pids, faid Bainham, here is a miracle, I feel no more paiiiin tbofe Hames than if I were lying on a bed of downs.Kune but Chrid, none but Chrid, laid Lambert, when thedames were flying and preying upon him. On a Saturdaywas I married, and on a Saturday shall 1 be married again*faid Anne Audibar, when she was led forth to be burned«n Saturday, \ ' 'FINIS.