THEf)LIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFMrs. Jane Shore,Concubine to K. Edward 4//5,CONTAININGAn Account of her Parentage, Wit, and Beauty.Her Marriage with Mr. Shore. The King'sVillti to her, her going to Court, and leavingher Hufband- Her great Diftrefs and Miferyafter the King’s Death, &c.GLASGOW: 'Publifhed by J. Lumfden and Son.l8l6.THELIFE AND TRANSACTIONSOFMrs. JANE SHORE.MRS. JANE SHORE was daughterto Mr. Thomas Wainftead, a citi¬zen of good repute, who lived in Cheap-fide, by trade a mercer. She being theonly child of her parents, was'broughtup with all the care and tendernefs ima¬ginable, not wanting any education thatwas proper for her; and her naturaltemper, which was very airy, being joinedto her educati©n, and that degree ofpride, which, as it is natural, fome makeneccffary for the female fex, helped to fether olf to the beft advantage. Fine fea¬thers always make fine birds; and if thebirds are fine without them, doubtlefs.they make them doubly fo.Life and Transactions, &c. 3This lovely woman was the delight ofher father, who clothed her richly, a-doming her with jewels; and, his tradelying among the court-ladies, he oftencarried her with him to fhew her thepaftimcs which were made frequentlythere, to divert the queen, &c. whichgave her an early longing after a greatergentility than fhe had ever yet- attainedto, or her city breeding was fit to pro¬duce.When fhe grew to the age of fifteen,her competent flock of beauty and goodcarriage, caufed many to fall, in love withher, and fome great lords fixed theireyes upon her, to get her for a miflrefs,which her father perceiving, fent her tohis filler at Northampton, where fhe re¬mained about a year, till he fuppofed theinquiry after her was over, and that fhemight returri without any hazard ofbeing any further tempted to lewdnefs:Yet, fhe was no fboner returned, than aplot was laid one night to have her car4 . Life and Transactionsried away by Lord Haftings, who, afterthe death of King Edward, took her forhis concubine, as will appear in the clofeof this hi ft ci ry. But, the maid he hadbribed with gold to get her abroad, re¬penting of fuch treachery to her master,gave timely notice, and fo prevented it.Her father perceiving, that, unlefs hetook fome fpeedy courfe, her great flockof beauty would -be her ruin, refolved tomarry her, fo that having furrenderedher virginity, and being in the arms ofan hufband, thofe that fought to crop hervirgin rofe, would not regard her, butgive over their purfuit.And, among thofe that courted, andesrneflly fought her, in way of marriage,was one Matthew Shore, a rich goldfmithin Lombard-ftreet, whom her father pitch¬ed upon as a fit hufoand, and acquaintedhis fair daughter with his intention tomarry her to him, but flic appeared veryaverfe to it, alleging fometimes difprepor-if Mrs. Jane Sbsre. 5tion of years, he being above tliirty jat other times, his being disfigured withthe fmall pox, and many other exceptionsfhe made. However, her father’s pofitivccommands, and the rich prefents her lovermade her, won her confent, or feenainglyflie yielded to the match, and fo marriedthey were in great pomp; many of thecourt, as well as the city, being invitedto the wedding, which was kept withgreat feafting, many days.The wedding being over, and the bride¬groom having enjoyed his charming bride,grew exceedingly fond of her, even todottage, which fickened and palled herlove toward him, and he perceiving it,j ftrove to wind himfelf the more into her| affectiens; and to this end he clothed herI very richly, and adorned her with jewels,denying her nothing fhe defired, or thathe thought would tend to her fatisfactionor delight.h was not long before Lord Railings6 Life and Transactionsheard the unwelcome tidings, that hisfaireft Jane «'as married ; which, however,did not make him give over his purpofeof enjoying her fair body ; fo that oftenhe reforted to fee her, treating her athome, and herhufband abroad ; often in¬viting them both to court; and took hisopportunities to pour out many amorousdifcourfes, endeavouring by all means, tomake her defile the marriage-bed. And onetime, intending to try his utmoft efforts,he threw her on a bed when they werealone; but fhe got from him, and ran toher hufband, tellingliim plainly how rudeLord Haftings had been ; which angeringShore, he modertly rebuked him, and for¬bade him }iis houfe, which made him goaway in great heat, but refolving to berevenged.iThis Lord, being Chamberlain to K. Ed¬ward the IV. having frequently his ear;and, finding he was much inclined to finewomen, though he was married to LadyElizabeth Grey, took an opportunity toof Mrs. Jane Shore. ■ nteli him of Jajie Shore’s beauty, extollingher wit above her features, which madethe King hearken to this new adventure*\ and he refolved to go to Shore’s fhop indifguife to lee her.The King, whofe thoughts Hill ran onhis intended Miltrefs, delayed not long topay her a vilit; and in order to it, attiredhimfelf like a merchant, and withdrewprivately from court, being only attendedj by his page: And coming into Shore’s(hop,then the richeft in allLombard-ftreet,he found the good man employed in his• bufinefs j and, waiting till he was a littleat leifure, he defired to fee fome plate,which being (hewn him, he, under a pre-Itence of carrying it beyond fea, foon a-greed for a coniiderable quantity: But yetno wife appeared, which made him delay; the time with difcourfe, of what was thentranfacting in England and places abroad,where he faid he had travelled.This delighted Shore mightily, fo thatLife and Transactionsordered his man to fetch up a bottle offine, and they drank merrily, the goodan beginning with a health to the King,hich the King pledged him in. So whenme other healths had paffed, theKingalk-’ ), if there was not a iniflrefs to fo fairhoufe ? otherwife, he could help him to*, wife, rich, young and beautiful.For this offer. Shore thanked him, buttold him, he was already married to fucha one as he defcribed, whom he loved en¬tirely. This difcourfe made the King moredelirous to fee her ere he departed, andafked if he could not have a fight ofher. Shore, little thinking what was in¬tended for his ruin, and proud of hiswife’s beauty, foon yielded to his requeft,and ordered her to be called down, w'hocame attired in a fky-coloured morninggown, flowered with gold, embroideredwith pearls and fpangles, her head attiredwith curious lace, under which, her hairflowed wantonly, and her blufhes madeher appear ftill more beautiful.9Of Mrs. Jane Shore.The King no focncr faw her, buthe ftepped forth and fahited her corallips, imprefling on them many balmykifles. Then flue, by her hufband's de¬fire, fat down, and the King drank toher, flic pledged him, and pafled it toher hufband. Then much difcourfe en-fued, in which fhe appeared fo witty,that the King refolved to have her at any "rate,and fo prefented her with fome curiousthings. He paid for his plate, which thegood man would have fent home, but herefufed it, ordering his page to carry it jand with many kiffes, he took leave ofthe charming fair one for that time.I The king had no fooner departed, butJane alked her hufband, Who that gentle¬man was, that had been fo liberal toher? he told her, he faid he was amerchant, but he knew him not. Ah !faid fiie, I rather take him for fomeLord in difguife; therefore, dear huf¬band, if he fhouid come again, tell himI that I an. fick, or any thing you canfeign to difappoint hira.|io Life and TransactionsMr. Shore'was greatly pleafed at herconduct, and more difcourfe had paffed,but people coming into the fhop aboutbulineis, flue retired.1 he King foon arrived at court, wherehe had been miffed by his nobles, foonchanged his apparel, and came amongftthem with a very chearful countenance,and though others were ignorant, Haft-ings well perceived where he had been,and the fatisfaction he had received, andno faoner were they in private, but theKing faid, well Haftings, thou haft verygood judgement in fine women: I havefeen Shore's wife, and file excels thepraifes you gave her; I like her well, andmuft enjoy her, but how muft 1 bringit about ? to court her in her hufband’sprefence, as a private perfon, I fliall beferved as you was} and to do it as aKing, will look too low for me 1 willnot force her from his arms, for thatwould caufe a murmuring among myfubjects, who would fear the like by their0/ Mrs. Jane Shore. * 11wives and daughters; but I mull haveher} and v/ith her own confent.Haftings fmiling, immediately faid, takeno care, for this {hall be eafy to your Ma-jefty : there is one Mrs. Blague, your lace-woman, has a houfe near Shore’s, and isvery intimale with his wife. This womanis very fond of money, to fuch a degree,that money w ould make her do any thing.Her will I engage to do this matter, andtrull me fhe will- bring it to pafs to yourfatisfaction. The King liked this device,and it was agreed that he fhould fee herat this Mrs. Blauge’s, and have freedomto court her, but fhe fhould not knowthat he was the king, till he thought pro¬per to have it difcovered.Lord Haftings was not idle in promot¬ing his matter’s happinefs, but, with giftsand large promifes, foon made the lace-woman pliable, fo that many meetingswere made at her houfe, the King comingin difguife as her friend j and, though12 Life and TransactionsMrs. Blague often left them alone, andthe King courted her with all his rhetoric,yet fhe appeared averfe to his love, and* often blamed him fharply for perfuadingher to defile her hufband’s bed; and thendie would chide Mrs. Blague for fufferingfuch a rude man to come to her houfe,telling her the defign he had on her chaf-tity ; fhe feerr.ed very furprifed at it, butentreated her to be at cafe, for fhe wouldnot fuffer him to come there again anymere.This pacified her, but the plot was flilldeeper laid for her ruin, and at Chrifimastime fhe got leave of Mr. Shore for hiswife to accompany her to the Court, tofee the ball there, to which he confentedwith fome unwi"ingnefs: And foon afterfhe was introduced, a man of very come¬ly port entered, with a mafkon; and Mrs.Shore heard the ladies whifper, That's theKing; who looking round through hismafk, fixed his eyes upon her, and imme¬diately flepping to her feat, took her-outOf Mrs. Jane Shore. 13to dance along with him. At this fheblu&ed, but not to be unmannerly, (hecomplied} and the dance being ended, hetook her to a fmgle light, and pulling offhis malk to falute her, ftie perceived itwas the fame man whom ftie had feen ather own (hop, and at Mrs. Blague’s houfe}and putting a letter into her hand, he re¬tired. She then coming to Mrs. Blague,deftred to go home} to this (hecontented,and then read the letter, which was tothis purpofe:*s My Lovely Jane,“ Tour beauty has enthralled my heart.“ , lis a King fuet ; you will be kind to him,“ and, by a lint, tell him fo to his comfort.”When fhe read this letter, fhe left Mrs.Blague abruptly, judging fhe had a handin the matter.All this night the fair Jane was refllefs:her hufband enquired the caufe, but could14 Life and Transactionsnot learn it. As foon as fhe got up, fhewent to Mrs, Blague, to confult what ihemuft do in this ftrair, well knowing theKing's humour.Mrs. Blague, feeing her thus penfive,.faid. “ Come, my dear, you muft not be“ coy, nor deny the King?s requeft. You“ wall glitter fo near a throne, and enjoy“ a gallant bed-fellow. I find he is refol-“ ved to have you for a miftrefs, and“ therefore it is beft for you wdllingly to“ fubmit to him.”*At this difcourfe fhe trembled, yet con-fidering, from the many attempts herbeauty had caufed, that it was not madeto be enjoyed by one, in a fatal hour fheconfented ; and inftead of writing an an-fwer to the King’s letter, it was agreedthat very night fhe fhould take her appa¬rel, and put herfelf into the hands of theKing. This being concluded, Mrs. Blaguefent the King notice, who fent a chariotfor them j and in the mean time herQf Mrs. Jane Shore. 15elothes were conveyed away to Mrs.Blague’s. However, £he fupped with herhufband, when on a fudden fomebodycatne on a feigned errand, and faid, hermother was taken ill, and'deured to fpeakwith her. He would have gone with her,but file put it off; and giving him thelaft kifs he ever was to receive from her.Hie left him, and coming where the cha¬riot ftood ready, ftie and Mrs. Blague gotinto it, and we.e conveyed to the King’sfecret apartment, where they found himin his clofet. He welcomed them, but itbeing late, Mrs. Blague departed, andthey went to bed.Mr. Shore fitting up late, and his wifenot returning, was very much troubled,and went to his mother-in-law’s, but theyhad not feen her, nor was her mother ill,fo that her abfence troubled the whole fa¬mily. The next day was fpent in feekingfor her amongft her relations and friends,but found her not. Mrs. Blague proteft-ed Hhe had not feen her, and dropped16 Life and Transactionsfome diffecnbiing tears, fo that her huf-band was almoft diftracled, and at laitconcluded, that fiie was taken away byfoime courtier; and, in three days after, alady informed them that the was with theKing. This added more to their grief jthey knew not what courfe to take; andthey knew if they went to crofs the Kingit would be their ruin.They made inquiry, indeed, if it washer voluntary a<T, and finding it was, andfhe quite unwilling to leave her new lover,they left all hope of recovering her, fothat Mr. Shore growing melancholy, foldoff all he had, and went abroad ; buthaving fpent his fortune, he returned ina poor condition, and pradtifed clippingand filing gold coin to maintain himfeif ;for which he fuffered death in the latterend of K. Henry VIll.’s reign.Jane Shore having rendered up herchaflity to the King, pleafed with the glit¬tering of a court, and endeared by a mo-OJ Mrs. Jane Shore. 17narch’s love, was admired by the vulgar,towards whom fhe behaved in a moft cour¬teous manner.Her power was fo great with the King,that when his courtiers durft not inter¬cede for the poor and miferable that layunder his difpleafure, fhe, with her wit,would fo abate his anger, that (he favedthe lives of very many, both poor andrich. And though fhe could in a mannerdo ail with him, yet it was never knownflie ufed her influence to the prejudice ofany. And both in London, and the pro-greffes fhe made in the country, fhewould caufe poor people to be fought for,and relieve their necefiities, inducing andpcrfuading others, who expected any goodoffices from the King by her means, to dothe fame, never felling her favours} andby her ready wit, fhe fo baffled the courtladies, who envied her afpiring, that theyfound themfelves unable to repartee. Andthough the King had another miftrefs be¬fore her, namely Lady Beffy, yet he pre-18 Life and Transaftiomferred our heroine much above her, andwould often merrily fay, I have two mif-treffes, of quite different tempers, one themoft religious, and the other the merrieftin England : and indeed (he was had ingreat favour all the reign of the King,having crow'ds of petitioners waiting ather chamber door, or at the chariot fide,when (he was to ride abroad, whofe fuits,to the utmoft of her power, (he preferred.As fsr Mrs. Blague, who lead deferved ofher, (he procured of the King a (latelyhoufe and manor, worth 280/. a year.The Romi(h priefts much fpited her, be-caufe (he (heltered many from their rageand fury, after they had burned JohnHufs for an heretic.As no wordly pomp nor greatnefs isof long continuance, (o now her glorywas ended, and her days of inexpreffiblemifery began ; for, the King .dying atWeftminfter, in the fortieth year of hisreign, no fooner was he buried in the cha¬pel of his own founding, at Windfor, butOf Mrs. Jane Shore. 19Crook-backed Richard his brother, whomurdered Henry VI. and Prince Henryhis fon, afpiring to the throne, thoughEdward had left two fons behind him,viz. Edward and Richard, and feveraldaughters, all lawfully begotten with theQueen, he quarrelled with Lord Haftings,(who after the death of the King had ta¬ken Jane Shore for his concubine, as nowfree) becaufe he would not allift him inhis wicked project, of making away withhis two nephews, whom he afterwardscaufed to be murdered in the Tower, al-leging that the Queen and Shore’s wifehad bewitched him, (hewing his witheredarm, which all knew had bcfn fofrom hiscradle; and, that lord thinking to excufethem, faid, “ If they had done To, theyought to be pumfhed ” Richard furious¬ly replied, “ Thou traitor, doft thou ferveme with ifs ? 1 fay, it is a truth very wellknown to thee, that they have done To,and that I will make good on thy body;wherefore I arreft thee. Lord Haftings, forhigh treafon.” And, foon after, he caufedhis head to be cut off in the Tower.so Life and TransaftiontJane Shore had no fooner notice of thedeath of Lord Haftings, her paramour,but flie perceived a ftorm was falling onher own head, therefore flie thought itneceffary to provide in time, and fo fliecarried her jewels to her old confident,Mrs. Blague, entreating her to concealthem for her; but fli0, like a faithlefswoman, when Jane came and alked forthem, not only denied them, but when, inthe greateft need, flie came to crave almsof her, flie thruft her out of doors,threatening to have her whipped for herimpudence.Richard, by means aforefaid, havinggot to the crown, and to make bimfelffeem fair by others fins, though he was amonfter by nature, publicly declaring hismother to be a whore, his brother and hischildren to be baftards; caufed his Queento be poifoned, and would have weddedhis niece. He ordered our Jane Shore tobe apprehended, ftripped of all flie had,and do pennance, by feveral times walk¬ing in a white flieet, and then walk bare-Of Mrs. Jane Shore. 21footed and bare-headed in her (hift beforethe proceffion, with a crofs and wax taperin her hand, through Cheapfide, which{he did, looking fo lovely in her bluflies,that many one pitied her; he alfo ftrip-pod all her friends and relations of what¬ever they had, pretending they had gotit all by her means from the Crown inKing Edward’s reign; which, with thedifgrace their only daughter was falleninto, caufed her parents’ death.Richard, not content with this, put outa fevere proclamation to this effeA : Thaton the pain of death and conBfcation ofgoods, no one fhould harbour her in theirhoufes, nor relieve her with food or rai¬ment. So that flie went wandering upand down to find her food upon thebulhes, and on the dunghills, where femefriends fhe had raifed would throw boneswith more meat than ordinary, and cruftsof ftale bread, in the places where {hegenerally haunted. And a baker, whohad been condemned to die for a riot in22 Life and Tr ansa ElionsKing Edward’s reign, and faved by hermeans, as he faw her pafs along, in grati¬tude for her kindnefs, would trundle apenny loaf after her, which the thankful¬ly received, and bleffed him with tears inher eyes; but fomc malicious neighbourinforming againft him, he was taken upand hanged fov difobeying King Richard’sproclamation, which fo terrified others,that they durft not relieve her with anything; fo that, in miferable rags, almoftnaked, (he went about a moft (hockingfpectacle, wringing her hands, and be¬moaning her unhappy fate.Thus (he continued till the battleof Bofworth-field, where Richard was(lain by Henry Earl of Richmond, whofucceeded him by the name of Henry theVIL j in which reign (he hoped for betterdays; but fortune raifed her another ad-verfary, for he married Elizabeth, eldeftdaughter of Edward IV. and King Ed¬ward’s Queen, who mortally hated her,then bearing a great fway, another pro-Of Mrs. Jane Shore. 23clamation was iffued to the fame effeft;and fo {he wandered up and down, in aspoor and miferable a condition as before,till growing old, and utterly friendlefs,{he finilhed her life in a ditch, wlifcb wasfrom thence called Shores Ditch, adjoin-ing Bilhopfgate-ftreet.Thus you may fee the rife and fall ofthis once {lately, and then unhappy wo-mafi, with whofe dying lamentation I {hallconclude.HOUGH, by the rigour ol the lawyou are forbidden to give me anyrelief, yet you may pity ray unhappy{late, for the Scripture faith, That to themiferable pity Jhouid be Jhewn. I am nowputting a period to a miferable life; a lifethat 1 have been long weary of. Norwould I delire to live in the fplendour,pomp, and glory of Edward’s court. No,I am happier now on the dung-hill, thanThe Dying Lamentation ofMRS. JANE SHORE.Good People.,24 Life and Transaflions,. £sV.ever I was in his arms. For, oh ! it wasan adulterous bed indeed. Oh wretch !that King Edward! that ever I was be¬trayed by him! What floods of forrowhave my fins occafioned ? Oh! learn fromme, good people, to beware of vain de¬lights; though they promife fair, theyleave bitter flings behind them. Alas!you know my puni&ment is grievous inthis world, and fo it is, for 1 have endureda thoufand deaths in one; but now, mydying moments are come, I rejoice. Sin¬cere repentance has fecured my happinefsabove. But O, where repentance is notgiven, what feas of torment rack the foul!O happy dung hill, how do 1 embracethee! From thee my pardoned foul fhallfoar to heaven,' though here 1 leave thisfilthy carcafe.O that the name of Shore may be anantidote, to flop the poifonous and foulcontagion of raging luft for ever.FINIS.J. Ndlfon, printer.