AN OLD WOMAN CLOTHFD IN GRAY;To which are addel,The Bird,'A New Song.! Nobody coming to marry me.-: I WOULD IF I WAS NOT SO YOUNGEDINBURGH:Printed for the Bookseller!.1825.TTSSOtiiAN OLD WOMAN CLOTHED IN GUAY.An old worn in clothed h gray,had a daughter was charming & young,But sha wss deluded a trayby Roger* false flattering tongue j'Witn whom she often had bven,abroad in the meadows end fields;Her belly grew up to her chinher spirit sunk down to Ir.r heel&At length she began for to puke,her mother possessed v. th f ar:S're gave her a gend.; rebuke,and cry’d. Daughter j word in your car.I dolrbt you've b&ea plfyi ig ths fool,wh ch many call'd hey ding a ding,Why dtn you not follow my rule,aid tie your two toes in a string.O Mother ! your counsel 1 frt.ok,but yet I was s ever the noar:He won my heart whh a false look,and his words ss ted mine ear,»That your preceptg I sooa did forger,he on me and would have his scope,Oil is but a folly to fret, . *’tis done aad for it there's no help.Thea who is the father of it?come tell me without more delay *For. bow l am just i* the fit,t« go and hear what he will saj’»It is Soger, the damsel reply’d,he eali'd me his own pretty bird,And said tint I should be his bride,but he was not so good as his word.What l Roger that lives in the mill ?yes, verily; Mother the same :What! Roger that lives in the mill ?I'll hap to him tho’ I am lane;Go fetch me my crutches with speed,aad bring me my spectacles too,A lecture to hita I will read,shall ring in his ears thro’ sad thro’.With that she went hoping away,and vrent to oung Hodge of the igjif,4On him sjie her crutches did layand crj’d» You have ruia’d ray Girl,By getting he/dear maidenhead,'tis true you can no ways deny,Therefore I advise you to wed,and make her as honest as I.Then what will you give me ? quoth Hodge,if I take your Daughter by hand!Will you make me the heir of yonr lodje ?your houses, your money, and land,With all your barns and .ploughs,your cattle and money also ?If so, I will make her my spouse,speak up Are you willing or no.Then Goody toos Hodge by the hand,let it be foi to have and to hold ;I will make you the heir of my land,my houses, roy silver, and gold.Make h:r but your honoured wife,and you shall be Lord of my store.Whene’er I surrender my life,in case it were forty times more.s-3 ?1Tlie bargain was presently struck,thetf wedded—and this being done,Tbe old woman wished them good lusk,being proud of her Daughter a id Sob.Then, Hey for a Girl or • Boy ;young Peg look'^ as big as a Duchess,The Old Woman caper'd for j iy,and danc’d up a jig in her ci utches.THE BIRD. A NEW SONG.The bird that hears her nestling long,and flies abroad for food,Returns impatient through the sky,to nurse her hallow breed.The tender mother knows no joy,but bodes a thousand hams,And sickens for her darling boy,while absent from her arms.Suchfondncss with impatience joined,my faithful bosom fire,Nor forc’d to leave my fair behind,The Queen of my desire.aThe p ner of ve«o too Iu»*uiJ pr0T?>a i *i®ifar ia vaia,1 iho^ how ardeitlj I Jopej*r to reiisre my pain.Th? faint with ardent zeal iaipi/J,f<jf heaven and jo^ divinoTke faint is not with rapiure fir'd,raorepure, more warm than mine,I taie what Iibe>ty £ dare,twere impious to say more,Cotvay my lodgings to the fair,Tha Godess I adoreNQ30D? COMING TO MARRY MXLast night the dogs did bark,Acd I prep't out to tee,Whea i saw a lively young spark*But he was not lookicg for me.Ajd it's ch dear what shall become ef meOh dear ! wh«t slull I do ?Nobody coming to marry moNobody coming to wco.iff father*/ a hedger aad ditche-M> mother doe* nothing but rpTn>Aad 1 am a pretty young gir!,But the money comes slowly in.An 4 it'r oh dear, Ac.They sjyi t am beauteous and fair;They say t am scornful and bold ;Alas ! i must nopr despair,hor oh ! i am grown v*ry old.And it's oh dear, &c.But now t must die an old maid,Oh dear hew shocking the theught,Ao J all my beauty must fade,For i m sure it's no my own fault.Aid i,'s oh dear &c.I W OULD IF l WAS NOT SO YOUNG.a my holiday gown, aad my new faihioa’d hat,list monday I went to the lair,helJ up my bead, aid I'll tell you for what,young Roger I guess'd would be there:ids woo’s me to marry, whenever we meet*there s honey sure dwells oa his tergu?,He hues me so eloJe, and kisses so sweet,that I would Iwould.I would if I wasnot sopusg.Pctt sue I’ll sssure you got hold of my Boy,the Vixen would fain be his bride ;A token she'd hove either iibb»nd or toy,and swore that she'd not be de»y’d.A top knot he bought me and garters of gieen,die wench was confounded and stung;1 hate her so much, that with anger and spleen,That I wou'd, I wou'd, I would, etc.He whisper’d such pretty sett things in my ear,he promis’d he flatter’d he swore.Such trinket she bough t me, such ribbands & gearthat trust me my pockets run » tfr *• . . ,Some ballad* he bought me the best he could find• and sweetly the burthen be sung ;Faith he’s so witty so handsome and kind,that l would, I wou’d 1 wou'd, etc.The sun was just setting, 'twas time to retwe,our cottage was distant a mi e,I turn’d to be gone, Ro^er bow d hk« a sspnre,and handed me over the stileHis arms he threw round me, love laughed in his ey<he led me the meadow along,He hugg’d me close th*t I own d with a sigh,that 1 wou’d; that I wem’d, I wou'd. et«.FlfcHS.