THEComical and Merry Tricks■ . 'd . £'■ iW&tfiiJti ltd bn*» O F.yijl'jn'M* OTOjiiUvTOM THUMB,THE WONDERIUL.TO whicS^Ts aiiBjE JfTHBUE WliHUiPAISLEY:PRINTED BY G. CALDWELL 2, NEW STREfexWhore is always kept on Sale, a choico and extensive As¬sortment of Histories, Songs, Children’s Sto£ Boote"School Books, &e. bv. &c. '•tomtTHEHISTORYOTTOM THUMB.Titis is an amusing little history, abound¬ing with so many ludicrous incidents,that it almost never fails to excite themerriment and risible faculties of theyoung reader. Tales of enchantmentsand transformations by fairies and magi¬cians, being mere chimeras of the brain,are believed by no one; and althoughthe wonderful achievements of the re¬nowned Tom Thumb are of this descrip¬tion, yet the many laughable adventureswhich our hero goes through makes thestory be eagerly sought after and greed¬ily devoured by juvenile readers of bothsexes.It is said, that in the days of the cele¬brated Prince Arthur, who was king ofBritain in the year 516, there lived agreat magician, called Merlin, the mostlearned and skilful enchanter in the worldat that time.This famous magician, who could as¬sume any form he pleased, was travellingin the disguise of a poor beggar, and be¬ing very much fatigued, he stopped atthe cottage of an honest ploughman torest himself, and asked for some refresh¬ment.The countryman gave him a heartywelcome, and his wife, who was a veryi good-hearted, hospitable woman, soonI brought him some milk in a wooden bowl,i and some coarse brown bread on a plat-I ter.Merlin was much pleased with this1 homely repast, and the kindesss of thej ploughman and his wife; but he couldI not help observing, that though everything was neat and comfortable in thecottage, they seemed both to be very dis¬pirited and unhappy. He thereforequestioned them on the cause of theirmelancholy, and learned that they were4miserable, because they had no children.The poor woman declared, with tearsin her eyes, that she should be the hap¬piest creature in the world, if she had ason ; and although he was no bigger thanher husband’s thumb, she would be quitesatisfied.Merlin was so much amused with theidea of a boy no bigger than a man’sthumb, that he determined to pay a' visitto the queen of the fairies, and requesther to gratify the wishes of the poor wo- iman. When he had accomplished his jj' -.trney, Merlin thought on the kindtreatment he had received at the cottage, jjand the comical whim of the little man 1again suggested itself; and, being on anintimate footing with Queen Mab, he itold her the purpose of his visit, and re- |quested her to grant the desire of the |countryman’s wife.The droll fancy of such a little per- jsonage among the human race pleasedthe queen of the fairies exceedingly and |she told Merlin that the wish of the poor |woman should be granted. According- |lv, in a short time after, the ploughman’swife was safely delivered of a son, who,<5wonderful to relate ! was not a bit biggerthan his father’s thumb.The fairy queen, who had taken an in¬terest in the little fellow, came in at thewindow while the mother was sitting upin the bed admiring him. The queenkissed the child, and, giving it the nameef Tom Thumb, sent for some of the fair¬ies, who dressed her little favourite accord¬ing to the instructions she gave them jAn oak-leaf hat he had foi his.crown ;His shirt ef web by spiders spun ;With jacket wove of thistle's down ;His trowsers were of feathers done.His stockings, of apple-rind, they tieWith eyelash from his mother’s eye:His shoes were made of mouse's skin,Tann'd with the downy hair within.It is remarkable, that Tom never grewany larger than his father’s thumb, whichwas only of an ordinary size; but as hegot older he became very cunning andfull of tricks. When he was old enoughto play with the boys, and had lost all hisown cherry-stones, he used to creep intothe bags of his playfellows, fill his pockets6and, getting out unobserved, would againjoin in the game.One day, however, as he was comingout of a bag of cherry-stones, where hehad been pilfering as usual, the boy towhom it belonged chanced to see him.“ Ah, ha! my little Tommy,” said theboy, “so I have caught you stealing mycherry-stones at last, and you shall be re¬warded for your thievish tricks.” Onsaying this, he drew the string tight roundhis neck, and gave the bag such a heartyshake, that poor little Tom’s legs, thighsand body, were sadly bruised. He roar¬ed out with pain, and begged to be letout, promising never to be guilty of suchbad practices again.A short time afterwards, his motherwas making a batter-pudding, and Tom,being very anxious to see how it wasmade, climbed up to the edge of thebowl; but, unfortunately, his foot slip¬ped, and he plumped over head and earsinto the batter, unobserved by his moth¬er, who stirred him into the pudding-bag, and put him in the pot to boil.The batter had filled Tom’s mouth,and prevented him from crying; but,7on feeling the hot water, he kicked andstruggled so much in the pot, that hismother thought that the pudding was be¬witched, and, instantly pulling it out ofthe pot, she threw it to the door. A poortinker, who was passing by, lifted up thepudding, and, putting it into his bud¬get, he then walked off. 4s Tom hadnow got his mouth cleared of the batter,'he then began to cry aloud, which sofrightened the tinker, that he flung downthe pudding, and ran away. The pud¬ding being broke to pieces by the fall,Tom crept out covered over with thebatter, and with difficulty walked home.His mother, who was very sorry to seeher darling in such a woful state, puthim into a tea-cup, and soon washed offthe batter; after which she kissed him,and laid him in bed.Soon after the adventure of the pud¬ding, Tom’s mother went to milk hercow in the meadow, and she took him a-long with her. As the wind was veryhigh, for fear of being blown away, shetied him to a thistle with a piece of finethread. The cow soon observed the oak-leaf hat, and, liking the appearance of it,took poor Tom and the thistle at onemouthful. While the cow was chewingthe thistle, Tom was afraid of her greatteeth, which threatened to crilsh him inpieces, and he roared out as loud as hecould—“ Mother, mother!”“ Where are you, Tommy, my dearTommy, ?” said his mother.“ Here, mother,” replied he, in thered cow’s mouth.”His mother began to cry and wring herhands ; but. the cow, surprised at the oddnoise in her throat, opened her mouth,and let Tom drop oijt. Fortunately hismother caught him in her apron as hewas falling to the ground, or he wouldhave been dreadfully hurt. She then putTom in her bosom and ran home withhim.Tom’s father jmade him a whip of abarley-straw to drive the cattle with, andhaving one day gone into the fields, heslipped a foot and rolled into the furrow.A raven, which was flying over, pickedhim up, and flew with him to the top ofa giant’s castle that was near the sea-side,and there left him.Tom was in a dreadful state, and did 'Dnot know what to do 5 but he was soonmore dreadfully frightened; for oldGrurabo the giant came up to walk onthe terrace, and observing Tom, he tookhim up ami swallowed him like a pill.The giant had no sooner swallowedTom, than he began to repent what hehad done; for Tpm began to kick andjump about so much, that he felt very un¬comfortable, and at last threw him up’a-gain into the sea. A large fish swallow'-ed Tom the moment he fell into the sea,which was soon after caught, and boughtfor the table of King Arthur. Whenthey opened the fish in order to cook it,every one was astonished at finding sucha little boy, and Tom was quite delightedat regaining his liberty. They carriedhim to the king, Avho made Tom hisdwarf, and he soon grew a great favour¬ite at court; for, by his tricks and gam¬bols, he not only amused the king andqueen, but also all the knights of the*Kound Table.It is said, that when the king rode outon horseback, he frequently took Tom a-long with him; and if a shower came on,he used to creep into his majesty’s waist-10coat-pocket, where he slept till the rainwas over.King Arhur one day interrogated Tomabout his parents, wishing to know if theywere as small as him, and what circum¬stances they were in. Tom told the kingthat his father and mother were as tall asany of the persons about court, but inrather poor circumstances. On hearingthis, the king carried Tom to his treasur-y, the place where he kept all his money,and told him to take as much money ashe could carry home to his parents, whichmade the poor little fellow caper with joy.Tom went immediately to procure apurse, which was made of a water-bubble,and then returned to the treasury, wherehe received a silver threepenny-piece toput into it.Our little hero had some difficulty inlifting the burden upon his back ; but heat last succeeded in getting it placed tohis mind, and set forward on his journey.However, without meeting with any ac¬cident, and after resting himself morethan a hundred times by the way, in twodays and two nights he reached his fa¬ther’s house in safety.11Tom had travelled forty-eight hours witha huge silver piece on his back, and wasalmost tired to death, when his motherran out to meet him, and carried him in¬to the house.Tom’s parents were both happy to seehim, and the more so, as he had broughtsuch an amazing sum of money withhim ; but the poor little fellow was ex¬cessively wearied, having travelled half amile in forty-eight hours, with a huge sil¬ver threepenny-piece on his back- Hismother, in order to recover him from thefatigue he had undergone, placed him ina walnut shell by the fireside, and feastedhim for three days on a hazel-nut, whichmade him very sick j for a whole nut us¬ed to serve him a month,Tom soon recovered ; but as there hadbeen a fall of rain, and the ground verywet, he could not travel back to KingArthur’s court; therefore his mother,one day when the wind was blowing inthat direction, made a little parasol ofcambric paper, and tying Tom to it, shegave him a puff into the air with hermouth, which soon carried him to theKing’s palace. The king, queen, and all12the nobility, were happy to see Tom a-gain at court, where he delighted themby his dexterity at tilts and tournaments •,but his exertions to please them cost him |very dear, and brought on such a severefit of illness that his life was despaired of.However, the queen of the fairies,hearing of his indisposition came to court Jin a chariot drawn by dying mice, andplacing Tom by her side, drove through - Ithe air without stopping till they arrivedat her palace. After restoring him to 1nealth and permitting him to enjoy allthe gay diversion of Fairy-Land, thequeen commanded a strong current of air |to arise, on which she placed Tom, whofloated upon it like a cork in the water,and sent him instantly to the royal palaceof King Arthur.Just at the time when Tom came flyingacross the court-yard of the palace, thecook happened to be passing with theKing’s great bowl of furmenty, whichwas a dish his majesty was very fond of;but unfortunately the poor \ttle fellowfell plump into the middle of it andsplashed the hot furmenty about the cook’sface. -Ttte cook, who was an ill-natured fel¬low, i.-eing in a ten-able ra^e at Tom forfrightening and scalding him with thefurmenty, went straight to the king, andrepresented that Tom had jumped intothe royal furmenty, and thrown it downout of mere mischief. The king was.soenraged when he heard this, that he or¬dered Tom tobe seized and tried for hightreason; and there being no person whodared to plead for him, he was condemn ¬ed to be beheaded immediately.On hearing this dreadful sentence pronounced, podf Tom fell a-trembling withfear; but, seeing no means of escape, andobserving a miller close to him gapingwith his great rriouth, as country boobiesdo at a fair, he took al eap, and fairlyjumped down his throat. This exploitwas done with such activity, that not oneperson present saw it, and even the miilerdid not know the trick which Tom hadflayed upon him. Now, as Tom haddisappeared, the court broke up, and themiller went home to his mill.When Tom heard the mill at work,he knew he was clear of the court, andtherefore he began to tumble and roil■ HImm14about, so that the poor miller could getno rest, thinking he was bewitched j sohe sent for a doctor. When the doctorcame, Tom began to dance and sing;and the doctor being as much frightenedas the miller, sent in haste for five otherdoctors and twenty learned men.When they were debating upon thecause of this extraordinary occurrence,the miller happened to yawn, when Tomembracing the opportunity, made anotherjump, and alighted safely upon his feeton the middle of the table.The miller, who was very much pro¬voked at being tormented by such a littlepigmy creature, fell into a terrible rage,and, laying hold of Tom, he then openedthe window, and threw him into theriver. At the moment the miller letTGin drop a large salmon, swimmingalong at the time, saw him fall, and snap¬ped him up in a minute. A fishermancaught the salmon, and sold it in themarket to the steward of a great lord.The nobleman, on seeing the fish, thoughtit so uncommonly fine, that he made apresent of it to King Arthur, who order¬ed it to be dressad immediately. When15the cook cut open the fish, he found poorTona, and run 1o the King with him;but his majesty being engaged with state-affairs, ordered him to be taken away,and kept in custody till he sent for him.The cook was determined that Tomshould not slip out of his hands tin’s time,so he put him into a mousetrap, and lefthim to peep through the wires. Tomhad remained in the trap a whole week,when he was sent for by King Arthur,who pardoned him for throwing down thefurmenty, and took him again into fav¬our. On account of his wonderful featsof activity Tom was knighted by the Kingand went under the name of the renown¬ed Sir Thomas Thumb. As Tom’s clotheshad suffered much in the batter-pudding,the furtnenty, and the insides of the giant,miller, and fishes, his majesty orderedhim a new suit of clothes, and to bemounted as a knight;)f Butterfly's wings liis shirt was made,His boots of chicken’s hide;And by a nimble fairy blade,Veil learned in the tailoring trade,Hie clothing was supplied needle dangled by his side;A dapper mouse he used to vide,Thus st-utted Tom in statvly pride ‘16It was certainly very diverting to seeTom in this dress, and mounted on themouse, as he rode out a hunting with theking and nobility, who were all ready toexpire with laughter at Tom and his fineprancing eharger.One day, as they were riding by a farm¬house, a large cat, which was lurking a-bout the door, made a spring, and seiz¬ed both Tom and his mouse. She thenran up a tree with them, and was begin¬ning to devour the mouse ; but Tom bold¬ly drew his sword, and attacked the catso fiercely, that she let them both fall,when one of the nobles caught him in hishat, and laid him on a bed of down, ina little ivory cabinet.The queen of the fairies came soon af¬ter to pay Tom a visit, and carried himhack to Fairy-Land, where he remainedseveral years. During his residence there.King Arthur, and all the persons whoknew Tom, had died ; and as he was de¬sirous of being again at court, the fairyqueen, after dressing him in a suit ofclothes, • sent him flying through the airto the palace, in the days of King Thun-stone, the successor of Arthur, Every17ene flocked round to see him, and beingcarried to the king, hie was asked who hewas—whence he came—and where helived ? Tom answered—My name is Tom Thumb,From the fairies IVe come.When King Arthur shone,This court was my home.In me he delighted,By him I was knighted; -Did you never hear of Sir Thonsas Tbrimb?The king was so charmed with this ad¬dress, that he ordered a little chair to bemade, in order that Tom might sit uponbistable, and also a palace of gold, a spanhigh, with a door an inch wide, to livein. He also gave him a coach, drawnby six small mice.The queen was so enraged at the hon-oms conferred on Sir Thomas, that sheresolved to ruin him, and told the Kingthat the little knight had been saucy toher.The king sent for Tom in great haste jbut being fullj aware of the danger ofroyal anger, he crept into an empty snail-shell, where he lay for a considerabletime, until he was almoet starved with18hunger ; but at last he ventured to peepout, and perceiving a fine large butterflyon the ground, near the place of his concealment, he approached very cautiously,and getting himself placed astride on it,was immediately carried up into the air.The butterfly flew with him from tree totree’ and from field to field, and at last re¬turned to the court, where the king andnobility all strove to catch him ; but atlass poor Tom fell from his seat into awateringpot, in which he was almostdrowned.When the queen saw him, she was ina rage, and said he should be beheaded ;and he was again put into a mousetrap un¬til the time of his execution.However, a cat observing something alivein the trap, patted it about till the wiresbroke, and set Thomas at liberty.The king received Tom again into fa¬vour, which he did not to enjoy ; for alarge spider one day atacked him, andalthough he drew his sword and foughtwell, yet the spider's poisonous breath atlast overcame him ;He fell dead on the ground where he stood,And the spider suck’d every drop of his blood.19King Thunstone and his whole courtwhere so sorry at the loss of their littlefavourite, that they went into mourning,and raised a fine white marble monumentover his grave, with the following epi¬taph :Here lyes Tom Thumb, King Arthur’s kui^hi,Who died by a spider’s cruel bite.. He was well known in Arthur’s court,Where he afforded gallant sport;He rode at tilt and tournament,And on a mouse a hunting went.Alive he filled the court with mirth;His deoth to sorrow soon gave birth.Wipe, wi-pe your eves, and shake your head,And cry,—Alas ! Tom Thumb is dead !' ♦FINIS.goTHE THREE WISHES.There was once a man, not very rich,who had a pretty woman to his wife. ()newinter’s evening, as they sat by the fire,they talked of the happiness of their neigh¬bours, who were richer then they. Saidthe wife, “ If it wrere in my power tohave what I wish, I should soon be hap¬pier than all of them.”—“ So should Itoo,” said the husband ; “l wish we hadfairies now, and that now of them Waskind enough to grant me what I shouldask.” At that instant they saw a verybeautiful lady in their room, who toldthem,—“I am a fairy, and I promise togrant to you the three first things youshall wfeh,; but, take care—after havingwished for three things, I will not grantone wish further.” The fairy disappear¬ed ; and the man and his wife were muchperplexed.—“For my own part,” said thewife,“if it is left to my choice, I knowvery well what l shall wish for ; I do notwish yet, but I think nothing is so goodas to be handsome, rice and to be of greatquality.” “But,” the husband answer¬ed, “with all these things one may be sick-fretful, and one may die young,—itwould be much wiser to wish for health,cheerfulness, and a long life.”—“ But towhat purpose is a long life with poverty?”says the wife, “ it would only prolong ourmisery. In truth, the fairy should havepromised us a dozen of gifts, for there areat least a dozen things which I want.”—*22“That’s true,’’said the husband j but letus take time ; let us consider, from thistime till morning, the three things whichare most necessary for us, and then wish.”—“I’ll think all night,” said the wife,“ meanwhile let us warm ourselves, for itis very cold.” At the same time thewife took the tongs to mend the fire; andseeing there were a great many coals tho¬roughly lighted, she said, without think¬ing on it, “ Here’s a nice fire, I wish wehad a yard of black pudding for our sup¬per, we could dress it easily.” She hadhardly said these words, when down cametumbling through the chimney a yard ofblack pudding.—“ Plague on your greedyguts, with your black pudding!” said thehusband, “ here’s a fine wish indeed!Now we have only two left; for my part,I am so vexed, that I wish the black pud¬ding fast to the tip of your nose.” 1 heman soon perceived that he was sillierthan his wife; for, at this second wishup starts the black pudding, and sticksso fast to the tip of the poor wife’s nose,there was no means to take it off. “ Wretchthat I am !” cried she, “ you are a wick¬ed man for wishing the pudding fast toS3trty nose.”—“ My deal',” answered thehusband, “ I vow I do not think of it;but what shall we do ? I am about wish-<ing for vast riches, and propose to makea golden case to hide the pudding.”—“ Not at all,” answered the wife, “ forI should kill myself, were I to live withthis pudding dangling at my nose; bepersuaded, we have still a wish to make—leave it to me, or I shall instantlythrow myself out of the window.” Withthis she ran and opened the window ; butthe husband, who loved his wife, calledout, “ Hold, ray dear wife, I give youleave to wish for what you will.” “ Well,”said the wife, my wish is, that this pud¬ding may drop off.” At that instant thepudding dropped off; and the wife, whodid not want wit, said to her husband,I24<f The fairy has imposed upon us; shewas in the right; possibly we should havebeen more unhappy with riches, than weare at present. Believe me, friend, letus wish for nothing, and take things asit shall please God to send them,—in themean time, let us sup upon our pudding,since that’s all that remains to us of ourwishes.” The husband thought his wifejudged right; they supped merrily, andnever gave themselves further trouble a-bout the things they had designed towish for.FINIS.