THETHRtE CRUMPTWIN BROTHERSOFDAMASCUS.AN EASTERN TALE,TO WHICH IS AfbED,A USEFUL INSTANCEOf Turkish Justice.EDINBURGH:Vvhtcd act! So!.] bv J. M^bern, Corga^, 17 :t.THETHE THREE CRUxMPTWIN-BROTHERSiUUCIl liatwuii iT.1 ICIV,UIU, L1IC1C UWCH »tDainafcus, * an old man called Behemrillah, whodid but juft get a livelihood by making Steel-Bows, Swords, Sabres, and Knife-Blades, Ofthirteen children, which he had by one wife, tendied all in one year; but the three that remainedwere of fo odd a figure, that it was impoffible tolook at them without laughing: they were crook¬ed both behind and before, blind of the left eye,Istne of the right foot, and fo perfe&ly like oneanother in face, fliape and clothes, which theyalways wore the fame, with one another fo thateven their father and mother fometimes miftookttie one for the otherOf the three fons of Behesmllah, the eldeftwas named Ibad, the fecnod Syahouk, and th*• Damafcus is a city of Syria, at the foot of MountXiibanus, about forty leagues from Aleppo. It is migh¬tily reforted to lor its knives, bows and fabres. Tbsteel of Dimafcus is in very great efteera*OFDAMASCUS.3third Babeken, andthefe three little humph back’dbrothers never worked in their (hop, but theyferved as laughing decks to all the boys and girlsin the town.One day, as the only fon of a rich rtierchnnt,1 named Mourad, returned from walking with femeof his play-fellows, finding himfelf more merrythan ufual, he leaned apon the bulk of the threecrumps, and intuited them with fo much keen-efs, that Babeken, who was then at work upon a: knife-blade, loh all patience : he run after thofaehiidren, and fingling out his principal enemy,gave him a cut in the belly ;,but finding that he1 'was putrfued by the moh, he ran into his (hop and| puiled the door alter him.;;Irt--1Oil,10jn111tr^As Mourad was dangeroufly wounded, all th«avenues of Bemerillah’s houfe were immediatelyfecured, till the cady, who was fent for, fliouldcome. He repaired to the place immediatelywith his Azzas and having broke open-the doorupon their' refufal, forcibly entered into thaImp and demanded of thofe who had been wit-nefTes of the action that was committed, whichof the three crumps was the murderer? Nobodycould affirm that it was one of them more thauthe other; they were fo exa&ly alike, that theyI were st a lofs, The Cady examined load, v.h®\ a (hired him that it was not he that had woundedi. thefcoy, and that he could not tell whether it wasJSyahouk orBabeken : Syabouk averred the fam*thing. And Babeken^ feeing himfelf out of dan¬ger, had the impudence to deny like wife that hebad any hand in the crime,! The Cady was theiefore much perplexed what ”* The Asms arc a fort of cttchpoles. thatjiy accompany the Cache*. " r,4fc* de: there cou?d be but one criirinal, and her*i’eemed to be three; and never a one of themwould o^vn himfelf to be the man; he thought hecould not do better than to inform the King ofDamafcua of fo fingular an affair. He carried the>.hree crump* before his throne, and that Princahaving examined them himfelf, without being a-Me to find out the unth, gave command, in orderto difeover it, that eaeh of them (hould have anhundred baftinadoes upon the foies of his feet.They began with Syahook, and afterward* pro- |•ceded to Ibad, but both of them being ignorantwhether llabeken was the criminal or no, fie muchrefemblance there was between them, they en¬dured the baftinado without giving the King anyclearer information than he had before. Babekenafterwards received his quota of (Iripes; but be.ing judge in his own caufe, he did not think fitto betray himfelf; he made the mod earnett pro-teftations of his innocence, and the King not ,knowing which was the murderer, and unwillingt» put to death two innocents witii one criminal, ,wa* contented with binilhing them all three from 1Damafcus for ever.Ibad, Syahook and Babeken, were obliged tocomply with this fentence immediately. Theydeparted from the city, and having confidered |what they ftiould do, Ibad and Syahook wer* en* |tirely for keeping togetherbut Babeken having ireprefenttd to them, that let them go where they «’would fo long as they were together they Ihould-‘always be the left of the public, and that if they Vwere fingle they would each be infinitely lef* ob-ferved; this reafon prevailed over the opinion ofthe other two. They parted from tach other, •and taking every one a different road; Babeken, iafter bavins’ travelled throtlgh feveral town* #fSyria, caTie *t length to tJagdaci*, where VYati*-^iiluh, the grandfon ot' rlaroun Arreiehid, heldtj the fupreme power.This little crooked wretch underflanding thatthere wa* in that city a cutler ot tolerable goodrepute, went to him for employment; he toldhim he was of Damafcus, and that he had a par¬ticular art in tempering fteel t the cutler waswilling to try if Babeken was ns great a matterof his trade as he boafted himfelf to be, h* toothhn in to his (hop, and finding indeed that notonly the ftecl he tempered hard and fharpagain, as what was commonly ufed at Bagdad,but alio that his work was much more neat andperfeft, he retained him in h’.s ferviec, and eti-tertainded him with great kiudnets, that he mightk«ep him to himi’eif.From that time his fhop was always crowdedwith cuftomers. The little crurnp could not workfall enough; the cotier fold his tiows and Sabresat his o*n price; and ii he had not been ajironkena.itratragant foe, hemtghthave made a very con-liderable fortune.Babeken had fcarce been two years at Bagdaowhen h.s mailer fell very ill of a great debauchhe md made: bis body was fo worn and waftedby wine, brandy and w'omen, that all the care ofhis wife and Babeken could nut lave Ids Ide ; heI «ked :n her am.a.Though Nohoud, which was the name of thecutler s wife, was very far from being handfome,Babeken had neverthelels been in iov’c with herlor lo.ne time; and 1.is mailer’s death Cieirig a-lairopportunity to declare his pafnonj h; without any* Bagdad is a city of Afiij feat«] upon the Tygri*.•a the province of Hitrac.* 6laefitatioB made the widow acquainted with hisfentltnents. She was not much alarmed at him ;for befides his out-of-the-way figure began togrow familiar to her, flie further confidered thatif Babeken left her, the fhop would prefently lofeits reputation, and that the little money the hadfeved during her hufband’s life, would foon befpent. rhefe reafoas induced her, like a fenfiblewoman, as the was, to make Babeken a promife ofmarriage, as f oon as (he could do it with decency.She kept her word with him feme months after¬wards ; and B^beken, not fatisfied with his cut-ling trade alone, whereby in b little time he gota great deal of money, fell likewife into the wayof felling brandy of dates, which he had a veryconfiddrable demand for.The correfpondence that Babekan had in feve-ril towns in the eaft came to the ears of his twobrothers, who, after having lived for almoft fiveyears in the utmpll poverty, were at laft met to¬gether at Drebent * : here they learnt to theirgreat joy, the prolperity of Babeken, and netdoubting but he would adiil them in their want,they refotved to go together to Bagdad: they wereno fooner arrived there, then they fent for himby a poor woman, who had taken them into IterItoufe ou; of charity.Babeken was prodigioully furprifedat the fightof his brothers. {Save you forgot, faid he to themin a violent paffion, what happened to us at Da-maieus ? Have you a n.ind to make me tire jelkof this city too? 1 fwear by my head that youfhr.ll die beneath the cudgel, if you dare to comenear mv houfe. ,j■r- * Djebcnt is a town of the province of Servan. inPerfia, at the foot .of mount Csucafus,-1 'Ib»d and his brother were amazed at a reef*tk>n fo little sxpe&ed ; it was in vain they reprefented their mifery to "Babeken, and (hewed hi»ithe moil: abjefl lubmiflion ; he continued immov*ed; and all they could obtain of him was ten ortwelve pieces cf gold, to help them to fettle imfeme other town.Babeken being returned home, his wife perceiv¬ed an alteration in his countenance: (he afked hintthe caufe of it, and was aniwered that it proceed*ed from the an ival of his two brothers; but thatapprehending at Bagdad the fame railleries he hadI born at Damafcus, he had forbid them his houre,and obliged them to leave the town.Nohoud, to no purpofe, remonftrated to him thecruelty of what he had dene ; her hulband’s furywas increafed by her perfuafions. I find, fayshe, you will be tempted to entertain them here,during my journey I am to make to Balfora; buttake notice, I would advife jou, that if you do,it will coft you your life. 1 fay no more: look toit that you do not difobey me.Babeken’s wife was too well acquainted witkher hufband’s violent humour to contradict him;flie had often enough felt the weight of his arm.She promifed moth punctually to execute his cr- 1ders; but thoi’e promifes did not make Babekeneafy; he paded the whole night without taking awink of deep, and returning next morning at thebreak of day to the woman’s houfe fibers his bro¬thers had lodged, he heard, to his great Tatisfay-tion, that they were gone from Bagdad, with anintention never to fee it again.ibad and Synhook were indeed departed, with arefolution to go feek their for tun c s ei! e w hepc; butthe latter falling f;ck about two days journey fromBagdad, and they iinding themfelves obliged t*iay there almoft three weeks, their money wasfooti gone, and they reduced t* their former want:not knowing how to live, in fpite of the fevereprohibition they had recivtd from Babeken, theyrefolved to go back to Bagdad : they went to theirformer landlady, and begged her to go once moreto their brother, in order to perfuade him, if file«ou]d^ to take them into his houfe, or at leafi: t©give them a little money to defray the charge oftheir journey.The poor woman could rot refufe to do themthat for vice , flie went to Babeken*# hcufe, andbeing informed at bis {hop that he bad been gonetwelve days to Balfora, to fetch feveral bales ofmerchardifes, file returned immediately to tellthe news to her gueftf, who were fo hard prefledby their neccffity. that they went themfelves toImplo e the afiiiiance of their brother.Nohoud could not help knowing them, theyre fen: bled Babeken fo exafUy, that there was nobody but would have raiftoktn each of themapart for him; but though he had fo ftri£Uy com-Bi&nded hsr not to let them into her houfe filewas touched with their poverty and tears ; l)»eentertained V em, and fet fome visual* beforethem .It was now dark night? and Ibad andSyahook had fcai ce fttisfied their hi fi hunger,when fometoiiy rattled at thr door: the voice ofBubeken, who was not to have returned in threedays longer, was a thunderbolt to his wife andbrothers ; they turned as pale as death, and Mo*houd, who did not know where to put there, toconceal them from her bufband’s fury, thought atlalt of hiding them in a li. tie cellar behind five oriiX tubs of brandy.Bu&eken grew impatient at the door; he knock¬ed l-uder and louder every moment; at lad it. ww' N ...; opened, arid fufpefting hi« wife of having fome! gallant hid in a corner, he took aftick end beather founJly j afterwards his jealoufy inducing! him to feurch the houfe, he vifited every holewith the great dt care, but never "bought of look¬ing behind the brandy tuos, though he went into: ths cellar. At Utf, the hump backed churk hav.ing made no difeovery, grew a little calm; helocked all the doors tailing the ke s according tohis cullom ; went to bed with Nohoud ; and di4l not go out all next day till cowards the evening.| prayer, telling his wife he th ,uM fup with aFriend.I His back was hardly tiuned. when Nohoud ranimmediadely to ths etilar; but (he was in the ut-1] moft furprile at finding {bad a d Syahdok withoui'if the lead figns of life: her perplexity increafed,•i when file confidered fire had no way ef getting|!i quite of the two bodies, but taking her refolutionK at once, fire (hut the ihop, ran to look toward*-I the bridge at Bagdad for a foolifli porter of Sivir-IhifFar*, and having told him that * little hump*backed man who came into her houfe to buy fomeknives, having died there luddetJy, file feared fhefliould be brought to trouble about it; fbe prof¬fered him four fequins of gold, if he would puthim into his fack and throw him into the Tygrii.The porter accepted her offer; and Nohoud ha¬ving taked him home with her, gave him two fe-quins by way of earned, treating him with drink[till it was night > file put only one of the crumps into his fack, helped him up with it, and promifedto give him the other two fequins when file wasfure he hud performed the commifiion.The porter, with the crump upon his Cnoulujrs* Sivri-hiffir is a town of Nitolia, the innib;tintsi of which are famous for their {implicit;’, . -opened hi |fhoc h:s !o^d irfto" tlie river, and running |beck to Mchood. 'Tis done, faid he laughing, your |men is f:fh meat by this time, give me the tw® |Teqains yot: promifed me. Nchuud then -went | ‘behind her counter, under pretence of fetching ;him the money, hut {tar ting back, with a loud cry, ,{he pretended to fill in to afwoon. The porter, LItrnngely furprifedj took her into his arffits : afterhaving fetched her to herlelf, he enquired the icdufe of hdr fright: ^h, faid the cunning huffy, iu&ing her part to a miracle, go in there and youtriH loon know the caufe. The porter went in,was {truck as mute as a fi(h, when by the glim- jmfcring of a lamp, he peceired the fame bodywhich’•'he thought he had thrown into the Ty gris. ,The more narrowly he viev/d it. the greater wasjus furprife, 1 am fare, laid he to Nohoud, I didthrow thafi plaguy crooked rafed over the bridge;how then could he Came hither? there muft bewitchcraft in it: however continued he, let’s tryif he will got out Again ; then Imvieg put the fe»eond err-np into life fame fack, he carried him toI the btidge/f.nd ohoofirig out tlie deeped: parr of ,the Tygris, opened his fack and threw in poorSyahock. lie was bgaid returning merrily to Noitond, hot doubt ' -g that hU burden was gc>ne to Ithe bottom, when turning the corner of a ftreet, }he law coming towards him a man with-a lanthornin his hand. He was ready to drop down dead iwith fear -it the light cf Uabeken, who was goinghome a' Hide-overtaken with vyine. fie doggedhim, however a little while, and finding that he jtook the ready wr<\ to 'the 'heufe, from which he jhad fetched the two critn.ps, he fei-.-d him fur- •riouSy by the collar: d.h, rogue i cried he. you |' tltln'k to make n foo! of me a!! night, do you l yo# ’VI n b?ve fervid me thi* trick twice already; but ifyou do fo the third time, I will be hanged : the*,being a lufty fellow, he threw his lack over hi*fhoulders, and foreing him into it in fpite of hi*teeth, tied the mouth of it with a iirong rope,end running dire&ly to the bridge, flung in poorBabeken, fack and all: and walking a pretty whilethereabouts, for fear the crump (hould get out a-gain to cheat him of his reward, but hearing nonoife returned to the cutlerefa to demand the o.ther two fequin* which fhe had promified him.Do not fear his coming any more, faid he, them0r*ent he let his foot into the houfe; the waghad a mind to make hVs fport of me for ever; Ethink he only pretended to be dead, that he mightmake me trot my legs off; but l have done hi* bu-finefs for him now lo thoxughly that he will ne»yer come to your houfe any more, 1 will engagefor him,Nohoud, furprif*d at this difcourfe, defired himto tell her what he meant by it. Why, repliedhe, I had again thrown tins damned crump intothe I'ygns, when I wa* returning to you formy money, 1 tn<:t him again about five or fixflreet*off, with a lanthorn in his hand, Tinging and roar¬ing under pretence of being drunk 1 was fo hor¬rid enraged with him, that laying hold of him, Iforced him into my lack in fpite of all his refin¬ance, tied it with a cord, and fo threw him intothe Tygris, from whence J believe he can neverreturn, unlefs he be the Daggiai * himfelf.Babeken’s wife was in sn unparalleled furprifeat this news. Ah 1 firrah, faid (lie what haveyou dyne? you have now drowned my hufband *and hare y uu the impudence to think I will re-* The Djggsl is the Anticbrid of th’ Mahometan**i*wuri you Tor tin* «iurdei- ? no, no; i will revengehis death, and this raonoent to make my cem-|)!auit t» the Cady.The porter cave very little heed to ail herthreats; he thought (he on.y did this to avoidpaying him the money (lie had promiled him.Without jeitiny, faid he, giveme the two feqiiinsI have io lawfully earned; vou have made a fool*f me long enough already : 1 rautl begone home.Nohoud (\ill refufed to pay him; l I'wear hy myhead, replied he, in a violent race, if you do notgive me the two fequins this moment, I will fendyou to keep company with that crooked monfteri have thrown into the river Now, added he*difpute my payment if you dare; 1 am not fuch afool as you take me for ; I will have my moneyprefently, or 1 will make the houfe too hot :o holdyou The more the porter infilled for his mo¬ney, the more noife Nohoud made; he grew wearvof fo much refinance, and taking her by the hair,he pulled her into the ftreet, and was really go¬ing to throw her into the Tigris, when the neigh¬bours ran to her affirtance.The porter, upon this took to his heels, verymuch in dedugeon at having, as he thought, beenio giofsly put upon, and was going towards thebridge in his way home, when he met three men,each with a load uoon his {boulders, as far as hecould difeern in the dark. He that went firft tookhim by the arm ; Where are you going at thistime of night, faid he? What’s that to you, faidthe porter, very inappiflily ; I am going where ipleafe: You are greatly deceived, anfwered the{tranger, for \ou (hail go for I pleafe; take thisbundle off my head, and walk before me.* The porter fuiprifedat the command, would*ve refilled; but tU aun having flwok at himI8'*ta Gabre four fingers br?> .d, threatened to cutoff hit bear' if bs? did ~.ot obey that moment: hewai forced to t^ke op the load and ?o in ■'•omparywith the other t-vo, r/hereof onefecmed a fifave,an 1 the other a fiflin man. They had net walkedten Ureeti, when they came to a little door; whichwas preiVrUy opened an old woman: theypaffed throueh alongpsffage very dark.andarriy*ed at lahinto a magnificent hall: but what was theporter’s amaatment, wnen by the light of aboveforty tapers with which it was illuminated, to feethe crooked brothers he had thrown into the Ty-j?rh. two of whom were upon the {boulder* of theflave and the fcflierman, and the third upon hisown head; he was feizad with fuch terror thathe began to (liahe a’l over his body, lie was morethoroughly con vinceti than ever, that fo extraor¬dinary a thing could not be imputed to notingh butconjuration; butrecoveringatittlefromhis fright.—The devil take this curled crump backed,one-eyed fon of b whore, cried he, in a very comicaltone, I believe I (ball do nothingh all night butthrow him into the river, and not get rid of binsat lail; the rafeal was fo malicious to come backagain twice to hinder me from getting the feqninsthe cutler woman promiff d me; and here 1 findhim. again, with two others befides, not a farthingbester than himfelf. Hut. fir, continued he, nd-dreffwg himfelf to him that feemtd the tcalfer »fthe houfe, lend me, l befeech you, that fabre ofyours but for a moment; l will only cut eff theirheads, and then throw them all three into the Ty-gris, to fee if they will follow me again. ! amio horrid unlucky to day, that l am lure the de¬vil will carry them back either to the cutler'shoufe or mine, do what I will.The porter having finilhed this fpeech of his^TH5 iph, Wat’k Sillch, for it was he himfelf,th?»t hy the adventure of Hsroun Arrefchid. hi*grandfather, walked out very often in the night¬time in the ftreets of Bagdad to fee what p fled,and, to be capable of making a judgement himfelfhow the people liked his government; this Caliph,I fay. who wa* diiguifed like a merchant, was inthe utotoft furprife at thefe words of the porter's;he had been out that night with His prime Vizier,and having met a fisherman he a&ed him whitherhe went; l am going, anfwered he, to draw upmy nets, which 1 have left ever (ince yefterdaymorning in the Tygris And what will you dowith the fi(h you catch? replied the Caliph To- *morrow, fnid he, l will go fell it in the marketof Bagdad, to help to maintain my wife and three•bildren. Will you bargain with me for yourwhole draught ? replied Wattik Bilkh With allrnv heart, nnfvvered the fiiherman. Well faidthe Caliph, there are ten fequins of gold for it;will that fatisfy you the fifherman was fo amaz¬ed at {itch a piece of generofity. that he almoU:imagined he was in u dream: but putting the fe-quins in his pocket, my lord, replied he, trafport-ed if i were to h :Ve as much for every draughtI ihocld foon be richer and more powerful thanthe fovereign commander of the faithfnl.The Cidiph fmiled at this companion; he wentto the thpre of the Tygris, entered into the filli-. erman’s boat, and, with his Vizier, having helpedt. him to draw up his rets, he was very much amaz-| ed at finding in them the two littls crumps ofDamafcus, and a fuck in which was the third.An adventure fo furprifing, liruck him with1 admiration dince this draught belongs to me,i faid he to tire fifherman, who was as much furpri.I fed as the Caliph, I am velVlve* to carry it home5with me; butmnn had received too great marks cf the Caliph’*liberality to make the leaf! fcruple of obeying him;the Viziar and he took the one Ibad, and the o-therSyahouk by the feet, and threw them on theirfnou’ders, and the Caliph himfelf having (liould-rered the fack in which was Babeken, they turn¬ed back to go to the palace, when they met theporter, who had a few moments before, thrownthe three brothers i*to the Tygris.As VVatik liillah was dropping wet with thewater that ran out of the fack, he (topped theporter, and having forced him to eaXe him of hisburden, he conducted him to a houle which ad¬joined to his palace. There :: was that the por¬ter of Bagdad, having, by the words he fpoke re.lating to the three crumps, excited the Caliph’*euriofity. he defired him to explain himfelf moreclearly upon fo whimfieal an adventureSir, replied the porter, this explanation yourequire is net fo eafily made as you imagine. Themore I think of it. the lefs I nnderftand it; how¬ever, you (hall have it ju(l a* I think it happen¬ed to me.Do you know, fir, faid the porter, the cutler’swife that lives at the end ofthe flreet of the jew¬ellers f No, replied the Caliph. You are no yreatloier by the bargain, anf\*ered the porter; (lie isthe mifehievoufeft jade in ajl Bagdad : l wouldwillingly give the two fcquins 1 am mailer of tohave five or fix Hops at her foul chops, for thetrick the witch put upon me this night; though lbe but poor, I (hculd deep the better for it. I hiscutler woman then—But (fay, lir.ee j ou'do Potknow her, l will draw you her picture. Imagine,lyes a great ‘.either-fir, that you have before youneat’s ton^’te; with a little forehead, and eyes fafar funk into her head, that it is impofiihle to fee(he has any without a telefcope. Her nofe has fogreat a kindnelh for her chin, that they are alwayski/Iiayone '.mother; and her mouth which exhalesa ch arming ordour, like that o» brimitone, is fjwide, that it is not unlike a corcodiie s. Muftnot all this form a complete beauty? VVithourdoubt, faid the Caliph, whos though impatient tohear the {lory about the two crumps, al molt diedwith laughing at the porter’s comical defct iption ;you a»-e lo excellent a painter at fancy, I fee thiscutler woman, and would lay a wager l couldfind her out among a thoufmd Well then, faysthe porter, fince yon know her now as well as ifyou had keen her, imagine that you fee this lovelycreature covered with a great veil, that hides allher perfections, come to chufe me towards nightat the foot of the bridge, from among five or fixof my comrades, and pro.miie me in rrv ear fourfequins if I would follow her. ihe defire of gainentices me; I fly towards her houfe, go in withher", file throws off her veil ; 1 rm frighted at thefight almoft out of my wits; !he certainly per¬ceives it, and to encourage me, peps irto my handa great flageon of wine. I own, fir, it was foexcellent, that without inquiring whnt country itcame from, I emptied the llaggon. Yet l couldnot help trembling all the while 1 drank it; I wasafraid'fhe had a mind to make me drunk, that (hemight afterwards debauch me, and get me to fpendthe nipht with her. *nd it wns not withoutgrounds that I feared this ; for (he cart.fiTeJ meenough to make me believe it .'kfier the wine,{he brought me a great bottle of date bra vly, (heamoufoally pours out a large glafs full, which Ltipped off without any more ado; then flit pro-| pofed to me.- But ftay, Hay, I think I drankS two glades of brandy upon further confideration.! Drink fix, if yon will, anfwered the Caliph, fo you| do but make an end of your ftory. Hold you methere, fir, cried the porter, one cannot fwallowdown brandy at that rate neither; ’twill fly intothe head: 1 &tn half drunk with thofe two only,J and you would have me here, after all that wine,/ pope down a bottle of brandy to boot: no, no, fir,I will do no fuch thing, though the fovercigncommander of the faithful himfelf fliould beg meI upon his knees to do it. But let us return to ourflieep. So then it was tkat the cutler woman,feeing me grow a little merry, as one may fay,gave me to underfland that a little crooked man,who came to her hcufe to bay fome cutler* ware,had died fuddenly in her Shop, and that fearingfhe Qtould fee accufed of having killed him, (he,if £ would throw him into the Tygris, promifed,me four fequ'rs for my trouble, to which I agreed.11 ad not drunk io much neither, but that 1 was re-|| folved to make fure of my calh. j demanded twoof the Sequins in earned, Ihe gave them me: 1 putslittle ermup into my fack, does as i was bid, andcomes back to take the reft of my money, when(he (hows me again the very fame man. 1 leaveyou to imagine fir, how much i was furprifed.I pet him once more into my faek, canieci him•gain to the bridge, and, cho fmg the molt japidpart of the ftream, tolled him in; and as i wasreturning to the cutler’s, when-1 again met tiecrooked toad, with a lanthorn in his hand, andsnaking as if he was drunk. I grew weary of fomuch jelling, took hold ol him roughly, and pulii-ing him into my lack in Ipite of his teeth, tied upthe mouth of it. and flung him a thitd time intothe 'Jygris with my fack and all, imagining that■jiSVrould keep iiirn irom getting out again. I wentback to the cutler woman, and told her how I metthe erui»p alive, and in whet manner I got rid ofhim: but iniiead of paying me the two fequins Iexpe&ed, (he pretended to tear he hair in grief,and threatened to carry me before the Cady, forhavh.g drowned her hufband. I never mindedher tears; but fwore I- would have my money.. Imade a bloody noife about it; the neighbour* ranin at her cries, I took to my heel*, f was goinghome, grumbling in the gizard very much, whenyou, fuv forced me to taise up this fack upon myhead and bring it hither<.Now, fir, continued the porter, yeu may ealilygueft the caufe of my fright, when at my arrivalhere, I found myfelf laden with the fa»e manthat T had three times flung into the i'ygris, andbehold alfo two others 10 like him, that it is im*poffible to diftinguiOi between them, but by theirclothes.Though the Caliph could not fee into the bot¬tom of the adventure, he took abundance of plea-fare in hearing the porters Aory. Then havingviewed the three brothers a little more narrowly,he thought he perceived in them fottie figns oflife, and font immediately for a phyfician. he camefoon afterwards, and finding that Ibnd and Sya-hook threw up with the, water they had i*alloweda great deal of brandy, he did not doubt, as in¬deed it was true, but that their drunkennefs wasthe oecalion of their beiug thought dead. As forBabeken, nothing but w^nt of air had almoft fui-fucated him ; but foon as his head was out ofthe fack, he recovered by degrees, fo that in haltan hour's time his brothers and he were entirety*ut of danger.x9ii *t t^e fight of his brethrs, wha were laid *pottI fapha*. He almnft cracked his eye-ftrings withflaring at them, and could net poSibly conceivehow he came into that ftrange place with them.He fuflered himfclf to be undrtffed without ut¬tering a fiagle word, while the fame was done t»Ibad and Syahouk.The Caliph having caufed the three crumps t®he carried into difFertr.t chambers, had them putto bed, and locked up. Then he lent away thefiflierman, and having ordered the vizier to keepthe porter, and to ufe him with great kinrJsefs he1 prepared to divert himfelf at the expence of thecrooked brothers and the cutler woman, whom hearrelled next morning by the break of day.To heighten the diverfion, the Caliph caufedto be made that night two fuits of clothes ex¬actly like th*t which Babeken wore, when he wasthrown in te the Tygns. Hs ordered them tobe put upon Ibad and Syahouk, whofe drunkenfit was quite over, and being all drcffed exactlyalike, he pLeed them behind three different pie-ees of hagning in a magnificent hall of the palace,and j^ave orders that they fhouid be difeoveredupon nis making a certain iign.The vizier, who, with the porter and feveralguards had been early in the morning to arreftthe cutler’s wife, brought her into the hall, wherethe Caliph was already placed upon his throne.He examined her with relation to what pcfftdbetween her and the porter. She told him all thathad happened, without concealing a title or thetruth, and feetned very much corcerred'at thelol* of her husband. But ftud the Caliph is rotthis a made flory which you tell me ? how is itpolTible thefe three crooked brothers fhouid be loexaftly alike, that the porter IhcuSd he deceived bv10thou? Ah, my lord, rvp’ied Xohoud, he was halfdrunk when I employed him; and befides, myhuiband and hi» brothers refemblw one another foperfefUy, that if they were dr died in the lamecloihei, I hardly think I m^felf could be able todidingnifh the one from the other. That wouldbe pleafant, indeed, faid the Gaiipb, clapping hishands, l thould e glad to be the fpe&ator offueh an interview.This was the fignal Watik billah was to givefop the crumps to appear. The pieces of hang¬ing were immediately pulled up, and the cutlsrelswas ready to die with fear at the fight. O heav¬en ! cried Hie, what a prodigy i» this! do the•lead come again to life ? is this an illufion, mylord* and are ray eyes faithful teiiimonies of what1 fe«? You fee right, replied W atik-billah; oneof tbefe three i* your hulaand, end the other twoare his brothers ; you mutt choofe out your ownfrom among them. View them well 1 but I for¬bid them, upon pain of death, to fpeak or makethe leali fign.P?ohoud, in the utmoft perplexity, examinedthem one after another; but could not dillinguilhher hufband : and the Caliph, who was as muchat a lofi to know them as (he, ordered him ofthe three that was Habeken to come and embracehis wife, was very much furprited to fee thethree crumps all at once throw thtiraims roundher neck, and each of them affirm himlelf to beher huftnnd.load and Syahook were not ignorant that theywere in the prefence of the fovereign commanderof the faithful; hut whatever'reipeft they owedhim, they thought they could no: be revenged ofbabeken rittter, than by trying to pats (or him ;and this Latter got nothing by bis rage and p ifian31far hi* f»r» brothers obtlinatdy perfifted ih rob¬bing him of his name.The Caliph could not help laughing at thiscomical contett of the three crumps ; but havingat length re-aHumed his gravity ; There irould beno fueh difpute among you, faixl he which fhouldbe Babeken, if you knew that 1. wailt to dittinguifiihim only to give him a thouiand bauinadces forhis cruelty to his brothers4 and for his forbid¬ding his wife to entertain them in his abfence.Watik-billah pronounced thefe words in fo fe-v^re a tone; that load and Syahook thought it hightime to gif e over the jell: If it be fo, my lord,laid each cf them fe para tel v, we are no longerwhat we pretended tcbe, with a defign to puniftiour b' other for his ill ufage of us ; if there areany blows to be received, let him receive them,for they are no more than he deferves; ns for us,my lord we implore yon irenerofity, and we arein hopes that your augufl majcfty, who never fuf-fers any todepart unfntisfied, will have the good*nefs to allevitte cur mifery and want.The Caliph then threw his eyes upon Babckan,whom he faw in the £reatefi conlufion. Well,faid he to him. what haft thou to fay for thyfelf?Potent King, replied Bsbeken, with his face prof-trate to the e^rth, whatever punifhmcnt I am tolook for from your juftice I am neverthe’efs thehufbardof this woman; my crime is ftiil.the great¬er, in being the only caufe of the baniftiment ofmy brothers from the city of Damafeus, for amurder, of which our refemblence hindred mefrom being known the author, i ought to have letthem p*rticipnte in my good fortune, as they {har¬ed in my bad: but if a (incere repentance can ob¬tain my pardon, l«cffer from the bottom of myhrart to give them an equal part of all the money Easkave by ray labour gained fince ray arrival her®at Bagdad; and I hope ycur faered majefty willpardon my Ingratitude, upon account of the far¬row it gives me to have committed it.The Caliph, who never intended to infti&nr.TpuniflrmentuponBaheken,was very well pleafed tofee him in this difpotniou of mind; and thereforepardoned him: and being willing that Ibad andSyhhouk, for the p’eafure they had given him,fhould teel the elFedls of his liberality, he caufedit to be ttuhlifhed all over Bagdad, that if therewere any women wrho <Vou!d marry the tw«cruwp-brothers, he would give them each tirothoufand pieces of gold. There were abovetwenty that w'ere to embrace fo eonfiderable afortune: bnt Ibad and Syahoult having chofenout of that number thofe that they thought wouldfit them befi:, received of the Caliph twenty thau-fan:! fe^uins more, with which they traded infellowfiiip with Babeken; and thefe three bro¬thers fpent their days in abundance and tranqui¬lity, under the prbie&k>n «f the fovereign com¬mander of the faithful, who was fo liberal to thePorter, that he lived at his eafe ever after,without having any occafion for continuing histrade.V33* . ,. [:l ■' . r> f^ iAHINSTANCE OtTURKISH JUSTICE.A Grocer of the city of Smyrna, had a ton,^ who, with the help of the little learning thecountry could afford, rofe to the p®d of natb, ordeputy to the Cady, or mayor of the city, and asfuch, vifi ted the markets j andinfpedled the weightsand meafures of all retail dealers. One day, asthis officer was going his rounds, the neighbours,who knew enough of his father** charafter, to fuf-pe£t that he might [land in need of the caution,advifed him to remove his weights for fear of theworfl:: but the old cheat depending on his rela¬tion to the infpe&or, and lure, as he thoughtthat his fon would not expofe him to a public af¬front, laughed at their advice, and flood verycalmly at his fhop door, waited for his coming.The naib, however, was well afluredof thtdifho-nefty and unfair dealing of the father, and rr.fo!_ved to deteft his viilany and make an example ofhim: accordingly, he ftopt at the door, and faid,eaolly to him, “ Good man, fetch out yourweights, that we may examine them:” Infteadof obeying, the gocer would have fain put it offwith a laugh, hut was foon convinced his fon wasferious, by bearing him ord<?r the officers tofearckhis fhop, and feeing them produce the intlrumensof his fraud, which, after an impartial examina¬tion were openly condemned and broken to pie¬ces. fclis fhaae andconfufion, however,he kop-«d *ou!d plead with a fon to excufe him all fur-rtfoci’ punifismetit of hi» crhne; bat even th:*1,thoajrh entirely arbitrary, the nuib made asfevereas for the moll indifferent offender, for he fen-teno*d him to a fine of Sfty piaffers, and to re¬ceive a baftinado of as manv blows on the foies ofhi* feet. Ail this was executed upon the fpot, r.-fter which, the naib leaping frem his horfe, thretvhimfelf at his feet, ana watering them with histears, addreff s him thus : (i father, t have dif-charged my duty to my God, my lOVcreign, mycountry and my llatiun ; permit nte now, by myrei’pe<ft and fybmiiEoo, to acquit the debt I owe aparent, Juilice is blind, it is the power of God•n earth, it has no regard to father or ion, Godand our neighbours right are above the tiesof nature, you had offended againll the laws ofiuiliq*. you deferved this punithvnent, you wouldin the end have received it from fome other, 1 amlorry it was your fite to receive if from me;but my •onfeience would net fuffer me to afl o-therwife: behave better for the future, and in*f.ead ol blaming me, pity my being reduced to fotfruel a neceflity,” Thi* done, he mounted hishorfe again, ar.d then continued his journey, a-midll the ecelamation* and praifes of the wholecity, for fo extraordinary a piece of jullice ; re¬port of which being made to the Sublime Porte,the Sultan raifed hits to the pod of Cidy ; froawhence, by degrees, he rofe to the dignity ofMufti, who is the head of both religion and lawamong the Ttirks- Were our dealers in fcnallweights to be dealt with according to the Turk*ilh law, the poor might not be fo much impofedupon as they are now.F I N f S.