1 he tired soldier.TO WHICH" ARE ADDED,MRS. HALL,AULDLANQ SrNE, ' \BEGONE DULL CARE,SCOTT. PniNTnn. Obkcma/i*-.THE TIRED SOLDIER.——•<p-»eK5£}«*s®«>——THE tired soldier, bold and brare.Now rests his wearied feet.And to the shelter of the graveHas made a safe retreat.To him the trumpet’s piercing breath,“ To arms’’ shall call ia vain ;Ned’s quarter’d in the arms of Death,He’ll never march again.A boy he left his father’s home.The chance of war to try.O’er regions yet untrod to roam.No friend or brother nigh ;Yet still he march’d contented on,lyieets danger, death, and pain ;n6w he halts—his toil is done,He’ll never march again :The sweets of Spring, by beauty’s hand,Lie scatter’d o’er his bier ;His comrades, as they silent stand,Give honest Ned a cheer -f■f( 3 )And lovely Kate, poor Ned’s delight,Chief mourner of the tram, _Cried, as she view’d the dreadful sight,“ He’ll never march again !”MRS. HALL.YOUNG Verdict was a lawyer gay,And of our town surpassed all;He went one evening to the play.And fell in love with Mrs. Hall.But wicked men will oft’ betray—Attorneys do it worse than all j ^For when he fix’d the wedding day* ^He ran away from Mrs. Kail.Therefore, I pray, a warning take.You widow ladies, great and small;Lest in the grass you find a snake,^As was the case with Mrs. Hall.JULD LANG STNE.SHOULD auld acquaintance be forgotAnd never brought to mind ?Should auld acquaintance be forgot,And auld lang syne ?>v.( * )F°r lan* syne, my dear,w!--ld Ian& syne.Well tak a cup o’ kindness yet•ror auld lang syne.And surely ye’ll be your pint.st0And surely I’ll be mine, FV We a CUP °’ kindness yet.For auld lang syne. yFor auld, &c.We twa hae run about the braes.And P'u'd ^e gowans fine;But we ve wander’d mony a weary fitt,bin auld lang syne.For auld, &c.“We twa hae paidl’d i’ the burn,irae morning sun till dine ;-But seas between us breid hae roar’d,bin ai'ld lang syne.For auld, &c.And there’s a Iv.nd my trusty frien’And gie’s a hand o’ thine,na we 11 tak a right gude willie-waught,i'or auld lang syne.For auld, &c.iMIDNIGHT BOWL.Care, thcu cancer of our joys.Now the tyrant’s reign is o’er ;Fill the merry bowl, my boys.Join in Bacchanalian roar.O’er the merry midnight bowl,O how happy we will be !Day was made for vulgar souls.Night, my boys, for you and me.Seize the villain, plunge him in;See the hated miscrean1- dies ;Mirth will all thy train come in.Banish sorrow, tears, and sighs.BEGONE, DULL CARE.Begone, dull care, I pr’ythee begone from me.Begone, dull care, thou and I shall never agree;Long time thou hast been tarrying here, ■-And fain thou wouldst me kill,But I’fairh, dull care,Thou never,shalt have thy will.Poo much care will make a young man grey,^nd too much cars will turn an old man to clay j\ * J( 6 )My wife shall dance and I will sing*So merrily pass the day ;For I hold it one of the wisesfthingsTo drive dull care away.SUEEN MART'S LAMENTATION.I Sigh and lament me in vain,These walls can but echo my moan,Alas ! it encreases my pain.When I think of the days that are goneThro’ the grate of my prison I seeThe birds as they wanton in air,My heart it now pants to be free.My looks they are wild with despair.Above, tho’ opprest by my fate,1 burn with contempt for my foes,Tho’ fortune has alter’d my state,She ne’er can subdue me to those.False woman in ages to come.Thy malice detested shall be jAnd when we are cold in the tomb,Some heart still with sorrow for me.Ye roofs, where cold damps and dismayWith silence and solitude dwell,How comfortless passes ihe dav iHow sad tolls the evening beii!Ihe owls from the battjemcnts cry.Hollow wind seems to murmur around“ O Mary prepare thee to die/’My blood it runs cold at the sound.—=-0 THE DEATH OF 6AIJ. T ROT.zHR Sally once the village prideLies cold and wan in yonder valley :le lost her lover, and she died.Grief broke the heart of gentle Sally,oung Valient was the hero’s name, *For early valour fir’d the boy,ho barter’d ail his love for fame.And kill’d the hopes of Sally Roy.dft from the arms of weeping love,As rag’d the war in yonder valley,’: rush’d his martial power to proveWhile faint with fear sunk lovely Sally,noon she saw the youth depart,At eve she lost her darling jov ;e night the last throb of her heartDeclar’d the fide of sally Roy.e virgin train in tears are seen,When yellow midnight fills the valleyw stealing o’er the dewy green,towards the grave of gentle Sally :I8W.IA.nd while remembrance wakes the sigh,Which weans each fealing heart from joy.The mournful dirge ascending high,Bewails the fate of Sally Roy.INCONSI ANT SUE.ClWEETSue! sweet Sue ! was Portsmouth’s pridc.i*nd boast,The sailor’s theme, the landsman s toast;All vying who should love her most.Accomplish’d charming Sue !On me she cast a winning smile,I joyful caught the winning wile,My open heart perceiv’d no*guilein smilling, lovely Sue.Dear Sue ! dear Sue ! her coral lip. her cheek.Where the musk-rose op’d the dew to suck or seek,Her eyes, where dancing cherubs speak, vBewitching, charming Sue !Ml were mine, I fondly thought,Nor deem’d the treasure dearly bought,Though friends and fame were set at noughtFor lovely, lovely Sue ?Ah Sue ! ah Sue ! could falsehood fill that breast rThy sailor true, thy love, oppress d.On tliis sad theme must ever rest,Inconstant, lovely Sue .I must upbraid that friend and theeWho, while thy true-love plough d the sea,Obtain’d that heart betroth’d to me, j N j s jUngrateful, faithless Sue ! 1- i w iSJ' ///iif •f-frl.