Religious Courtship ;OR, THEADVANTAGESANDDISADVANTAGES£ OF THEMARRIAGE STATE.As entered into with Religious orIrrel.gious Perfons,ELIVERED UNDER THE SIMILITUDE OF AD R E A M.BYP H l L AN H R O PIS T.STIRLING:Printed and Sola bj-C- Randall.7mnRELIGIOUS COURTSHIP, &c.s A S I walked through die' wildernefs ofOl this world, 1 laid me down to lleep,nd fancied myfelf travelling to the city of>ld Babylon, where I was much amazed inre wing the curiofities of the place; as the|ower. the Wall the Gates, the Streets, thedace, the River, the Images in the plain ofura, &c I obferved the city, and it sp¬ared in different views. In one part, theopie were entirely taken up in revellings,utmgs, diverhcns fplendid appearances,d enjoying themfelves In the other, theytemore referved, and were much takenua a demure drefs and behaviour, in thesehcy or their houfes and llreets. in the•glarity of their towers and fortificadons,t but without any appearance of danger,feemed entirely at ea'e.i.Qwbeit, when I had faulted myfelf; > gazing at the particular fliows, Ight to take a prolpeft of the whole• ^‘^gsther. So I waiiced to a rilingground, a little retired from the croud wher1 taw a Booth, which I took to be built opurpofe, lor the conveniency of taking prcipecfs, .and went directly to it: and at tb,joor 1 faw an old man of whom I enquireit he bad ever a profpedt g’afs wherebymight be favoured with a tu'l view of tfroyal City, which l fuppofed to be the mtrcpolis of the world. He told me, itpkafed to uh.e deliberate ohfervation,might, perhaps, have different apprthenfroicf that iplendid city, than i had at prefenlhut he afiured me, it was fo full of intelfuperplexity, that the inhabitants had no nfat sfa&ion in themfelvss. He thereforthen, fetched out his profptttive, and ttme, if 1 pleafed, he would Ihew me 'iituation of the place, whereby I mrghtlconvinced, that its condition was not|haj.-py, nor its glory fo majeftick, as 1 |agiued bo I took a dillinct view cf Jfouth fide, and the foundation appeareejjbe nothing but bogs and quickfands, wcould not poflibly fuftain the buddings,ere long they muff inevitably fink. 1 lltook a view of the north fide, and the Idation was ail bituminous and iulphuiBmatter, interfperled with fubterraneousiwhich appeared ready in a moment to illforth in flames. He then bid me lolthe eaft, and I faw a very formidable jj•V'hilaoproaching th.j city \v-ith fu:1 pa vtr 11 *&*itroy it; and they tbc t c ves- vithifury, like the roirmg of tea, ari 1 taere'.was atremb’ing up.a a ail ahe hiiis;' rivers,trees and fie:ds. Put all the iniiabicaatj of!the city continued in a ft a peS cation ArlicnI had deliberated thefe things, it filled mewith aftoniih.nent, fuch as tauled m j bowelsto turn w'thin me. fiuck was my difappoint-Iment, and the horror rnat feized m>; oh tJthought 1 was neither able to bear the fig lit,fi* from it nor hand my ground, talkedthe old man id l might lodge ad night in thatfloorh, but he told me it was not a place forlodging, nor would any perfon in his rightrnfind think it fafe to llcep fo near the city \yet. if l pleafed, l might come in and nettifcyfeif a little. When I entered* 1 foundh [four young men, brethren very carefully pe«runog a map, making very particular re-'ftiarks and diligent obf.rva ions, and wouldbedtimes enquire the old man’s judgement[jo inform them of the meaning of fomecl kings. Hereupon l afite h What place it1 /as fo much at rafted tneir intention ? fheyold me it was the map of Babvlon and•lanaan, with all the bounds between the twodaces, and being determined to leave theira.ive country, and travel to the latter placens the reafon of their prefent e: quiries.! So I obferved, and they ail made prepara-6ticnf, with vigorous reiblution, for thei*journey. And araongO: other confultatiomwith the ©Id man, (their inftru&or) thej ;earned lv craved his advice. Whether it werj texpedient for each of them to take alonj^with him a female companion ? Which h?! Iver>- chearfuPy encouraged to do provide^they w ere fuch as w-ere difpofcd to go thti Ifame way. and had their hearts engaged 11feek the fame country. Otherwife he ad(|moniflied them, by all means, to avoid hie1 f% companions as had no knowledge of, or di tlight in. the way they defigned to travel, iHe pointed out to them many difficulties i Ithe way, where the company of ftrange1 i'would be of very dangerous ccnfequences £and further, informed them of many i rfiances, what bad effe&s travellers who h:fformerly gone that way, had found fro <•disagreeable companions ; to prevent whfinconveniences, the king of the country h im?de a law that none of his fobjedts flrou |join with flrangers to be companions in tl itjourney. I waited tc fee what influence 1.1advice would have upon the minds of th*|young men. But 1 obferved, that, at tlisfiiU, none of them feemed to relifh Icouncil; lor they had all either contradl-fom- acquaintance with or placed their far i.upon maids who were natives of Babyl33ut tbs more they appeared engaged in th jf;I. Idons, die more Intiruclor infifted on the'er and pernicious consequences whichid attend their having fucii companionsdthal told them, the king had appoint*te to attend the n in their jo unvig. a'hofe* was Suf-deniil, without v/hofe com*, it wouli b impoffibie ever to reachorders oi Canaan ; and that to choofsger for a comp mion, would be inch an. to him, at the fird letting out as mightj| a mifuuderftanding ait the way- torirt, he told them, that to pretend totto Canaan and to choofe a Babyloru*)r a companion was a contradict on ;te could not but doubt the fiacerity ofhearts for it it was p ilTiole for a fta-trave.ier to chafe lucti a companion,r was very certain it could not be foas they con inued in the right ufe off eafon ; and he muft oifeharge his con-e in giving them timely admonitionioierved the event of thofe confultationsifound tne el deft, whofe name was L’heo-s could not be moved by all thefe ar¬ms., but abfolutely chofe on~, who wasier itranger to the path, nor had anyt therein, nor defire thereto. Andi he had convenanted with her fheji fo averfe to going along with him,o reiuCtant t© purluing bis intendedy, that flia prevailed upon him to de-■lift fro ti his purpofc : f > hs |act in. Bibylo". A.id poor Tueomacus, ■his companion, were both there when Idry was deftrcyed, and perifhed in Lruins.But the fecond brother, whofe1.Negotiojinore regard eel thecounfel givetj*'r,'! mn7-P l'.ppr!f;il Jjlj CiloictManti fee need more heedfulcompanion, that wouldalong with him ; fo at !:be wi! ing cjaore who appeared compiiab!he metto hisTho* fhe had no knowledge of the waydefire to walk in it, only it feemed a nind'fferenr, but as he was inclined to ufake the jcurney, file would condcfee}compliment him with her companypleafed the young man well, as he tbHhe wrou!d both gratify himfelf in the<■ f a corrpanipn, and alfo act co'nfor^to hi? directions; but he did net corthat while her mind was pc ft fled witljmdiifc! a ce, her comp any muft be veprofitable. However, they j'ined h|and Ihe complimerptd him with her fpany ho they fet out together, as iiwould proceed cn the journey; but lldifferent mind foor prevailed, fo as tc|'bus warm aileetions and caufed thevances to be very flow. I ofoferved,bnacolomb heard of his h iend Negoticbauds with a Babylonian, a? he paillmloor, he w- ote upon i:, Ichabod. As; travel.cd.' they would frequently fiti in the ihade, divert themfelves with5 and oheu turn aiVie, wtiich madenrogrefs very fmall; and this indolencedleG more and more, until they camelow valley by the brink ol the riverirates, where they turned afide and led); and while they flept, there arofe ain the river, and the Hood fwept themaway,I lor the third, whofe name was Ku¬dus when heheard the admonitions theyI deep imprtffions upon his mind, andhim with awiui apprehenlior.s -f he wasneed cl the pernicious confequenccso would attend fuch company, and ap-d foiicit.yus to avoid them ; but how it1 rave now loigot, wdiether. beforeilconltderations. he nad contracted a cor~iidence,or v/he*her afterwards, by dalli-•iand giving latitude to his lancy he tor- •|mlell, ana wa entangled with a daugn-;1 the Chaidees which, betwixt the in-i'lions he nad received and his own ind¬eed affections, cauled fome llrugglings|i mind : for the perfen wras ol a doui-jint difpolit.on, nor Itemed at ail le-it to the things I.e haa in view. 1 i.tilamly perceived, ihe had no tafte to, and that her innate difpofition wasiomoTf' to Babylon than Canaan ; fhe haver been convinced of the mifeiy an;approaching her native country,oua nted with the pleaiures and delthe land which he was feeking after,had any dtiire to the way, but his ftrqciination bimuiated him to reafonevery thing in the n oli advantageousand to put the beft conftrudfions uponcircuntr arce: asphus. that her comp!w as luci!, that fee would be no hind^or inoleftation to him ; ti/at, by his ehe might engage her mind to that whjhad no inclination to at pretent j thativery hard to be prohibited from one w.ad other rtfpecis, appeared fo defnaid tli-.t. prv.babiy he might nevercompanion com pleat ;n every point. Jrhe pet hit ea in thtle kinds of re aleuntil he had altncfl iiupifieu his fenfesdill, could no: free hindeif from conv% and dreadful apprehenfions of the jtaking fo indirect a dtp, and the mcccnees which would attend it, uutil at lija refokie pafTiuii prevailed fo far, tieyes were darnencd that he fcarce penthe day from the r ight, and during tifbpdfion of his fenles, he went one evjalter the fun was gene down, andhands with tr.k Babylonian ; but whfun arefe in the morning, and he wasII>me to himfelf, he then became fenfible oite rafhnefs of his adventure, hut it was toote to recall it. He now faw into whatates he had brought himfelf, in what diffi-jties he was involved and what incom-jKlitics mull attend his journey, and thatw he had no way left, but to make theb he could of the matter, and to grappleh it as well as it ftuuld pleafe God to en-ie himpo alter fome bitter refledions, he en-voured to fmother his grief, and betakeifelf to his journey, exerting his utmoft:I and power to take his companion alongi him. But alas! .When he attempted tohe r into the way, he found Ihe had notIhe could not move a ftep further thaniKi't carry her, and a heavy burthen fhei pblerved fome of his travel j when>net with dangers, diftrefies, or difap-pnents, he would begin to expofe hisI and unbosom his mind to nis com-#n, but die had no ears, no underftand-aor heart to fympathize with him, norhe capable of Knowing the nature of hisjhunt; it he xvas oelet w ith robbers,li beatts, or ferpeuts, Sec. he wouldi;imes make his complaint to her, butj uld neither afiilt nor comlort him ; ifjinted directions in the way, the couldjive him any counfel j if he was fick or12wounded, end wanted cordials or oil to hwounds, (he had no h?nds toadminifter arelie*; and as fhe never v as capable■yielding him any fuecour or comfort iniut'tlings, neither was (he ever capable,partaking of his erjoymtnts. if he iwith anv garden ot tpjcts. or rcfrtfhfprings by the wy, he woidd offer hereat and dtink vn h him but (he had no ta'if he found freer flowers fhe had no fnjand could have r.o ceiight in them., ifhad any deiigh fid‘profpects he ^ould-(favour tc fl ew th:m to hjs compan.but fhe had no eyes ; if he met wnh 1fellow-trave leis, he would invite her tOjjoy their company, but fhe wa* nevtrable ■with any prrion who ipc-ke the lajage of Canaan for it was a language thahad not leaned thus, wha evergnejfed him, or whatever eip ymem hefavoured with in ad his journey, hefeurd any fympaihy or congratulationher, nor were her afftftions otherwifeed than fometimes to defpife, andtimes to fhew difgufl and uiflurbaimind ; but as flie had no life, capacityj or ; dtivity, to wain, in the ohoicu pa*bad (O n.uch ilie more vivacity in thin;tain ng to her own element j fo tbiaw tim afidt, fhe vould cg'c vtrfp:rghthuefs in all her kr.kf , be lo p■ l3 r .'diverting, and in all her eCLVtrfations\’|Cgaging,'th;.t fee proved a 'ay g.eat,1 ^llerance to him ’.n ■ is journey i - ,?as notin hi& power to iind any thing^ ui• 'Liv that v ould divert or inline nee nerbd yet die irequei tly found out {o ne;ncr. in her own path, whicn did uives t,i infenfibly draw away ivs neaic, byich he was many times entangled, an ifen as w ild tiiick clay,■ .'Another thing I obLrved that aftr.r ned begun hi- j urney die King oiii’hofe fubjsa he was) lent them i'^r.eoung lambs to bed. with a ftrld charge tonach them diligently in 'he way. and b inglem up in his nun ure t n ad noniuen Butnft ptrtorinance oi this cjm-nand vva> ren*eri.d impracticable ; lor, a- ne iniiruct'. dihem to go right, ihe induced them to w an.ier ; as he endeavoured to gather them, fhecattcred them ; and as he fed them withLholefome food fhe wcuid luif it themwith poilonous herbs: id, vvhica way the<Km^ cifp'-fed of them afterwards, I never{knew, but they never pioipered under bis!Jcaie. Thus, her company x.ev r yieldedhim the leait bi r.tfit or ail.ltance t..roughi his whole journey, but was an ahoy to aitI his :oys, and an aggravation to an h;s iur-rovs. And it frequentiy caukd him verymuch regret of mind, to think of his own/4unadvifed engagement, and bitter refleton his neglect of duty, wandering ana,,tiinc which it nad been the occafion cilwej: as to rbferve the wretched ftupeficlof her miad. which was incapable of fhajhis enjoyments, or of being affected Jany of his calamities: iniomuch thatturned his pleafant journey into a wearihitravel, through^, lonefome wildernels.hot at lait (Trough many dull hours „tirefome fteps he arrived near the borderstK land upon tiie bank of the river JcLdan. wherein the midlt of the ftream, fbeheld a man in a rich pri 'ftly velttullanding to ftop tne torrent till he was pafflover, which made him approach the,rivelexceedingly trahfported with joy Yet , eve)htie, he ecu id not refrain from figeinjlwhen he found it was not poffmie for hilcompanion to go with him cue ftep fullther : but the glory of his prince, now i:|view, and the jcy of approaching the prolinifed land, foou revived his fplrits, andmaci him with readinds leave he; to pafsjtne r.vti oere, his burthens dropped off,Iand all his clogs were lift behind ; he wentlon with tre.i. ipirits and v gour, and chear-lfulnda in his countenance, as it ail things;'w ’e forgotten, but the joy that was before]him, But as he was taking fome of h’s ialt II fteps, juft ready to fet his feet on'Catiaaa'si fhore, he l©oked behind him, and faw herI fitting upon the fand, and beheld the riverreturning with fuch an overthrow, as carriedher along the rapid dream into the deadi fea.| As for the lad whofe name was Curina,when he had heard the indrucliom and ad¬monitions, it wrought hrlous reflections onj his mind, and made h’en very deliberate, uot-1 withftanding he was a perfor: of a brightgenius, great vivacity, and a fine tafte, hedetermined to deny himfelf; fo as when heifaw the beauty graceful mien, and heardI the courteous converfation of the Babyionifhm^ids, he would withdraw and turn awayhis eyes, left his heart fhould be enfnared.How ever, it fometimes tell in his way tohave converfation with home who appearedwery engaging efpecially one Jemiaa, vrhofeperfon, birth, circu oftances, and accom¬pli thments, rendered her extremely agree-lable ; infomuch, that many of his ac.fiuaint-jances greatly encouraged him to pur'ue thejopportunity, and not neglect fo valuable aiprize. i his made him .dagger a iittie, forjjindeed fhe wanted no accoinplilhment. butj:the language of Canaan, to make her juftifuch an one as his heart comd vifh, andcaufed him to reafon in his mind as follows :2. fuitaoiel15Can i expc cl to find a perfon more tiefirabie, or one more likely to be a happycornpat icri and help meet ?A She may prove fo, to a perfon whocan be condormable to flay v irh her in da-bylon, but as l am bound to another coun¬try, I may find bkterncfs in that which wouappear happinefs to another,out have f not reafon to hope, thatper Ton of her refined qualities may be tnhued with fuch bkfTings. as to makecompanion for me in my journey ?A- A pet (on may be accomplifhed withall the excellencies of Babylon, fo as to appear fuperior to in^ny cf the clnzcns, butif theie be only the accomplilhannus of the iown ccuntiy, they can only make a graduadifference between them and the moll abjecHpea lam, whereas there is a fpecifie c:ff.-rcnce§lbetween a Babylonian and an hiraeiite.j Q. But is it not very cenforious, tto looli 1upon fuch a worthy peifon as no better thara mere Babvionian ?jA. Inafmuch as the difference is fo greatthat a Babylonian cannot become a iubjoftht king of li'-aei uniefs he be formed anew v c cannot d-eem them any otner, flong as there does not appear ilte fptcilifeatures ot the felt ft Nation j tire idiom atheir language, the m en of their behaviou:aor yet an earned enq-iiry after the defi.rei;and, for we are not to forot our concep¬tion of them different from the deferiptioagiven by the King’s ScribesQ__Is it not exceedingly hard, that I mufldeny niyfelf au objecl fo agreeable ?| A. The king of glory denies nothing thatis good ; thefeKre, if this was really good,it would not be cenied me. he only deniesthofe things which he knows would be evil,and it is a real kindnefs to us to be derded ofifhem ; but fuppofe 1 thought it a real good,is it hard that he fnould deny me one favourwho has given himfeif to me. with, ail thebleflings ia heaven-and earth ?Q. What if I never find one fo agreeable,who travels the happy r -ad ?A. If I had the obiett now before me,rr.y happinefs muft entirely depend on theolefling of God. and have 1 not more reafonco exped a bit fling on the right way than onihe wrong ? B.Tides, as nothing is withheldor denied but became it is evil, whatever‘pod is pleafei to bellow in his own wayuft be agreeable.Q May not the valuable qualificationsattending this perfon be f» buffed, as to be amean to make me happy and ufeful in theiway, though fhe walks not in it hetfelf ?A Hare 1 any rcafon to exped to bei8made happy by a perfon who is an utfftranger to thofe things wherein my happi'nefs conhfls ? Or can 1 expect o findfulnefs in the way, from that which canncbe enjoyed or obtained without going out oj;the way ? Be^^des, what qaalifications fhe iendued w ith, or however valuable accomplifhments fhe is peff-ffed of, it never will b.her inclinrion to employ thofe excellsf-cieito aflill others in a way fhe herfclf i atn n|delight in.Q. But feeing her difpofmon is fo agreeabl.and compiadant, her mind fo w'ell qua ihs*v ith natural virtues and decorated with i.many acquired ornamehts, is there any re:fon to doubt, but that a perfon thus prred will have a tafle for learning and embicing the beft things, and may I not therv.fore exped; to engage her mind to walk thbleffed w^ayA. All' the accom plifhments that a perfosjcan pofiibiy receive from Babylon, can neveprepare, qualify, nor difpole them forveiling to t.anaan, nor will they, by an]means induce or incline any perfon to receive the real knowledge or love of thacountry for there is nothing in the naturof a Babylonian, without the infufionnew principles, that is capable of reiiihin-the things of Canaan, but the more c-X-clent her accomphfhnients are, the niorIglyher mnl w:ll be cemented to thaate whence he received them. Ar d onather uan i, as l formerly was a BaHylo-, th mgh not bieSed with new principlesjldti -ifture ftill remains in my nature,h, like fo much tinder is ready to kin-with Rabylonilh fire ; wherefore, theiter excellencies fire is accomplifir-d withtreater influence fhe will have to drawiijjnto perpetual danger of departing fromJiving Gr d.7hen he had fhus reafoned with himfelf,rade a full paufe appeared in a ftrongition of mind, and a palenefs arofc in hisI I heard him figh, and fay to himfelfthither has my mind been roving !**i, trembling, he lift up his eyes to hea-and eatneflly cried, ‘ O God of allace, deliver me from temptation ;* andr that time he never would regard 'anyie damfels of the city, but faid he woulduntil he fhould find a true companion,iitill then he would walk alone. So het on his way, rejoicing that ne had ef-al the fnare, and carrying along wdthi this motto, fhe Lord is my portion; en-ug great latisraction in his mind, fayinglumfelf If my king fee it good for me;> be alone. 1 know he willblefs that ftateo me; but if it be for my good to en-10^ joy a companion; I know uis goodnKt provide one for me. without mei out of the way to find one.”But ?s he was going on his way.feived Miranda, a young virg’n, wiwalking the fame road,‘and beg an tvoured with her company, but thou'advifeab'e to be ver>/ defiberate 1ferved whether the do.fe’v artendeiright way : fo he perceived her takingthing out of her boforn, diligently pafor a while, then put it into her boiomand pv.rfue the fira’ght path Wherhe went up to her, *nd enquired whwas go;ng ; fine told him.; to Z on Fed her what (he had been, perufirgfliewed him, it was the Map of thewhich (he tQck alone: with her for l.crile then Igcgan to enquire who (he waw hence file came the told him fha v»birth a Cnaidean by educadon and cfation a ii sbyion’an, but was now fee.^better ccunt|y He aiked what eipecor encouiagement fne had ia takingjourney ; ihe told ire. fhe had the iWord, to make her an iahauitamRoyal Palace when Ihe arrived at theJdttirel, and to grant her fufiicient d-and lcutenar.ee aSi the way thither, ifhe could be fully fatisfiedin the Kind’s:»ty ; fhe told him, the frauds and jea-es of Babylon iiad made fome impref-I; ou her mind ; that fne had found it very:ult to believe hi.n that could nor lie, butVb.jefly had condefcended to give herdrongtft detnonitrations ol his fidelity ;oat now ihe was convinced Ihe had noon to doubt his goodnefs, lor he had con-ied his promife with an oath, and had:n her to lee that, in his own records, it; fealed with blood ; that hitherto Hiei found his word verified to her, inengly defending and abundantly fupply-■ff htr wants, fo that fhe could fet to her.1 that he was true ; Ihe alfo afked himiters quellions, relating to his travels andjoyments, and he like wife anfwered hera free and fatisfaftory manner, fo thatdr aifctlions oegan to warm towards oneicther: it was a very comfortable inter-ew and their minds were refrefhed v ithich others converfaticn.I They appeared fo agreeable one to an*ther, that he began to think they mighte pleafant and profitable companions all the>ay ; but firlt he retired to deliberate onne converiation that had already pafied.:vVhen. the more he thought of her diligencen the purfuitof her journey, her fix^.d fatis-acfcion concerning the end of it, her under-Iilanding ia thefe things, laid down ;Jhguiding her in the way, and the dehqffappeared to take in meditating on, arttiverfmg about the joys of the City cilbitation, &c the more he was fatisfi«|S{he was a prince’s daughter, travelling]1Royal Palace: and when he had Jihlfihis eyes to heaven, and earneilly bafftGod for direction, and a bleiKng upor. mfurther converfation, he again came ini®company. After feme further difeouh'wafked her the reafon of her walking al®fne told him, fi e found but few' travepthe fame road, and the did not think i|>pedient to turn afide. or negledtjker lyfor any company in the world, [f {heftwith company, fuch as delighted in the ttpof wildom, fhe took pleafure therein pwith fuch company die was refrefhed ftftrengthened m her journey ; but othertft(lie chofe rather to be alone, to divert fl’felf in examining her map, veiwing ifprings by the way, fruit trees, fweet flowBhearing the fmging of birds, meditation the glories other prince and the joysfhould have in his prefence, &c. to t!tho’ company was pieafant when Ihe couenjoy it. the delights in the way fuppii:that wrant and upon the whole, ihe neitftMF 23anxious to have company, nor had aayfion againft it. her defign being to ei.joyonly, which might be moft conducive toard her in the way.e then propoied. that fmce they hadd each other's converfation comfortableafeful, it might be for their mutual ad-ige to join together, and engage to keepaany all the way bhe told him, it waslor perfons of their profefiion to do anyj rafhly, (he would deliberate on it; fojtired, and proftrated herfelf before theI her Father, telling him the matter,pring wifdom to diredt, declaring her-killing to enjoy or be denied any thing,( were according to his will, and mightir his honour. He told her, fhe haddy been informed, and well knew,' manner of perfons they muft be, withn it would be expedient for king'sliters to keep company ; but if fhei the perfon to be of the blood royalindued with princely qualities, fhe wasr full liberty, and moreover, by him, itd be efleemed honourable, bo whentwo lovers met again, had deliberatelyiked between themfelves, all fuch thingsey conceived neceffary relating to fuch: gagement, confidering the king's fla-j1 thereupon, and jointly petitioned his24Itfajefly's preferue ivim them. anJ h.'ion their imfiertaking, they pinedwi h great iatisiactton and ferenity ofreioicing to fee themfeiv’s preierved 'many fnares and thus txappliy unitetdivine hand.« HJ :-r>.F i N I S,Keadtr,if this book (hould be ret||not wcith laying out one penny, beto read it gratis, keep it clean, anditj when call’d for.