THEMERRY TALESOF THE *: #WISE MENOF- GOTHAM.“ Of merry books this is the chief.It is a purging PillTo carry'of all heavy grief,And make you "laugh, your fill. ’//-EDINBURGH;Printed fcr the B&okaeliers in Town and Country- „V* * - ' • • * > ■! ■ >r. ' ■ . i ▼ l   « W Alt ■» V» « * ITHEtMERRY TALESOF THEWise Men of Got hair .TALE iThere were two men of Gotham, an jone of them was going to Nottingharmarket to buy sheep, and both met togather on Nottingham bridge. Wehmet, said one to the other, whither aryou going ? said he that came fron *.Nottingham, Marry, said he that wa,going thither, I am going to the market to buy sheep. Buy sheep ! saiiStiie other, which way will you bringsthem home ? Marry, said the other, 3Yv ill bring them over this bridge. ByKobin Hood, said he that came from|Nottingham, but thou shalt not.my maid Margery, said the other, but31I will. You shall not, said the one :l will, said the other. Then they beattheir staves one against the other, amithen against the ground, as if a hundredfeheep had been betwixt them. Holdthere, said the one. Beware of myfeheep leaping over the bridge, said theother. I care not, said the one. Theybhall all come this way, said the other.But they shall not, said the one. Then,said the other, if thou make muchado, I will put my finger in thy mouth.A turd thou wilt, said the other. Andtiis they were in contention, anotherwise man that belonged to Gotham,rcame from the market with a sack ofmeal on his horse; and seeing his neigh-(hours at strife about sheep and noneebetwixt them, said he, Ah fools ! willwon never learn wit ! Then help me,(continued he, to lay this sack upon'my shoulder; they did so, and heswent to the side of the bridge and•ffehook out the meal into the river,^saying, How much meal is there in myifcack, neighbours? Marry, saidone, thereis none. Indeed, replied this wisei:an, even ' :t is there in vour4two heads to strive for that you hav*not. Now which was the wisest othese three, I leave you to judge.TALE II.There was a man of Gotham tharode to the market with two bushels qwheat, and lest his horse should b*|damaged by carrying too great a bunden, he was determined to carry thJcorn himself, upon his own neck, amistill kept riding upon his horse till ht)arrived at the end of his journey. Nov]I will leave you to judge which wa:|the wisest, his horse or himself.TALE III.On a time the men of Gotham fainwould have pinn’d in the cuckoo, thashe might sing all the.year ; and in tlxmidst of the town they had a hedgtmade round in compass, and got ;cuckoo and put her into it, and said'jSing here, and thou shalt lack neithe:imeat nor drink all the year. The cuekoo, when she perceived, herself encoir |lasSeti within the he’dgfe, flew away.vengeance bn her, said these wisefnen, we did not make our hedge highenough.TALE IV.j The re was a man of Gotham whowent to Nottingham market to sellicheese ; and going down the hill toNottingham bridge, one of his cheesesjell out of his wallet and ran down the.hill. W horeson, said the man, can youfun to the market alone ? I’ll now send:ie after another. Then laying- hiswallet down, andtaking out the cheeses,pie tumbled them down the hill, onelifter another. Some ran into one bushfand some into another. However, heibharged them to meet him at the mar¬ket place. The man went to the mar-|ket to meet with the cheeses, and stay-d till the market was almost over,hen went and inquired at his neigh-ours if they saw his cheeses come tohe market ? Why, who should bringthem? sa)s one; Marry, themselves,6said the fellow, they knew the wayvery well. A vengeance on them, theyAm so fast, I 'was afraid they wouldrain beyond the market; I am sure theyare, by this time, almost as far as York.So he immediately rode to York, butwas very much disappointed. And toadd to it, he never found nor heard ofone of his cheeses.TALE V.A man of Gotham bought, at Not¬tingham market, a trevet or barn iron ;and going home with it, his feet grewweary with the carriage. He set itdown, and seeing it had three feet,said, Whoreson, thou hast three feetand I but two ; thou shalt bear me home,if thou wilt; so he set himself downUpon it, and said to it, bear me asv longns I have done thee, for if thou dost notthou shalt stand still fqr me. The manof Gotham seeing his trevet would not ’move, Standstill, said he, in the Mayor'sname, and follow me if thou wilt; fol¬low me if thou wilt, and I can shewrou the right wav. When he wrent4ome, his wife asked where the trevetivas ? He said it had three legs, andie had but two, and he had taught himhe ready way to ids house, thereforeipe might come himself if he would.vVhere did you leav’e the trevet ? saidhe woman. At Gotham bridge, saidie. So she immediately ran and fetch-\d the trevet herself; or otherwise shemist certainly have lost it on account>f her husband’s want of wit.I • TALE VI.fV certain smith of Gotham had a; arge wasp’s nest in the straw at the; ind of the forge, and there coming one>f his neighbours to have ids horse: hod, and the wasps being exceedingimsy, the man was stung by one ofhem. The man being grievously aff¬ronted, said, Are you worthy to keep aforge or not, to have men stung withobese wasps ? O neighbour, said the||mith, be content, and I will put themmom their nest presently. Immediate-8ly “he took a coulter, and heated it redhot, and thrust it into the straw at tinend of his forge, and set it on firedand burnt it up. Then said the smith,]I told thee I'd fire them out of theirnest.TALE VII.On Good Friday the men of Gothamconsulted together what to do withtheir white herrings, sprats, and salt; ifish, and agreed, that all such fish,should be cast into a pond or pool, inthe midst of the town, that the numberof them might increase the next year.Therefore every one that had any fishleft, did cast them immediately intoithe pond. Then said one, I have gottenleft so many red herrings. Well, saidfanother, and I have left so many whit¬ings. Another immediately cried outI have as yet gotten so many spratsjleft. And, said the last, I have gotteiso many salt fishes, let them go togetber in the great pond without any dis¬tinction, and we may be sure to farekitlike lords the next year. At the be¬ginning of the next lent, they imme¬diately went about drawing the pond,imagining they should have the fish,but were much surprised to find no¬thing but a great eel. Ah ! said they,a mischief on this eel, for he hath eat¬en up our fish. What must we dowith him? said one to the other. Killhim, said one; chop him in pieces,said another. Nay, not so, said ano-»Lher, but let us drown him. Be it ac-iiordingly so, replied they all. So theymmediately went to another pond, and,,;ast the eel into the water. Lie there,ii;aid these wise men, and shift for thy-j self, since you may not expect any helpfrom us. So they left the eel to beitrowned.TALE VIII.I)n a time the men of Gotham hadrfirgotten to pay their rents to their((landlord ; so one said to the other, to-ahorrow must be pay-day, by whom10oan we send our money to our land¬lord ? So one said to them, I have thisday taken a hare, and he may carry itfor he is very quick footed ; be it so.replied the rest; he shall have a letterand a large purse to put our money inand we can direct her the ready yay.When the letter was written and themoney put into a purse, they immediately tied them about the hare’s neck,saying, You must first go to Loughborough, and then to Leicester, and aNewark is our landlord ; then com-jmend us to him, and there is his dueThe hare, as soon as she got out otheir hands, ran a quite contrary way-'Some said thou must first go to Loughborough ; others said, let the hare alonefor she can tell a nearer way than thbest of us ; let her go.TALE IX.A man of Gotham, that went mowing in the meadow, found a large grasslhopper. He immediately threw dow«his scythe, and ran home to his neigh I! * nhour, and said that the devil w.as ati work in the field, and was hoppingi among the grass. Then was everyI man ready with their clubs and staves,I halberts and other weapons, to kill thegrasshopper. When they came neari ; to the place where the grasshopper was,isaid one to the other, let every mani(cross himself from the devil, for weit will not meddle with him. So they re¬turned again, and said, We were blestthis day that we went no farther. O|ye cowards ! said he that leftlhe scytheiiin the meadow, help me to fetch mypscythe. No, answered they, it is goodijto sleep in a whole skin. It is much■better for thee to lose thy scythe thanjito marr us pill, yi TALE N.SDn a certain time there were twelveInen of Gotham that went to fish ; and;ome waded in the water, and someitood on dry land. And in going home,>ne said to the other, we have ventur¬'d wonderfully in wading, I pray God-1that none of us did come from hometo be drowned. Nay, marry, said oneto the other, let us see that, for theredid twelve of us come out. Then theytold themselves, and every one told ele¬ven. Said the one to the other, thereis one of us drowned. They then wentback to the brook where they’d beenfishing, and sought up and down forhim that was drowned, making greatlamentation. A courtier coming by,asked what it was they sought for, andwhy they were sorrowful ? Oh, saidthey, this day we went to fish in thebrook ; twelve of us came out together,and one is drowned. Said the courtier,tell how many there be of you. Oneof them told eleven, but he did not tellhimself. Well, said the courtier, whatwill you give me, and t will find thetwelfth man ? Sir, said they, all the mo¬ney we have got. Give me the money,said he. He then began with tile first,and gave him a stroke over the should¬ers with his whip, which made himgroan, saying, here is one, and so heserved them ail, and they groaned atr*.1‘ji13i he matter. When he came to the last,paid him well, saying, here is thewelfth man; God’s blessings on thyf eart, said they, for finding our broth-r.I TALE XLV man of Gotham riding along theLjiighway, saw a cheese, so drew his: word and pricked it with the point, inl *rder pick it up. Another mail cameii»y, alighted, and picked it up, and rode{way with it. The man of Gothamides back to Nottingham to buy a longword to pick up the cheese, and return¬ing to the place where it did lie, hebulled out his sword, pricking theiground, and said, If I had had but thisi word I should have had the cheese my-Iself, but now another has got it.TALE XII.“ ;"J :4 man in Gotham, that did not lovei lis wife, and she having fair hair, heri msband said divers times he would cutTTit off, but durst not do it when sliwas awake, so lie resolved to do it wheishe was asleep : therefore, one night h<took a pair of shears and put them unde,his pillow, which his wife perceiving, saidto one of the maids, go to bed to mdhusband, for he intends to cut off mj ihair to-night, let him cut off thy hair,and I will give thee as good a kit¬tle as ever thou didst see. The fmaid did so, and feigned herself asleep.,which the man perceiving, cut off thelmaid’s hair, and wrapped it about thshears, and laid them under the pillow,and then fell asleep. The maid arose,and the wife took the hair and shears,and went to the hall and there burntthe hair. The man had a fine horsethat he loved much, and the good wifewent into the stable, and cut off thehair of the horses tail, wrapped thesheers up in it, and laid them underthe pillow again. Her husband seeingher combing her head in the morning,marvelled very much thereat. Thegirl seeing her master in a deep study,said, What the devil ails the horse inthe stable, he has lost his tail ? The// —;man ran into the stable, and found thei horse’s tail was cut off; then going todie bed, he found the shears wrappedpip in his horse’s tail. He then wentto his wife, saying, I crave thy mercy,rtorl intended to cut off thy hair, but[ have cut off my own horse’s tail. Yea,said she, self do self have. Many menthink to do a bad turn, but it turneth.fbft times to themselves.TALE XIII.||A : ! .'y : i||A man of Gotham laid his wife a5 wager that she could not make him a' cuckold. Ho ! said she, but I can. DoJinot spare me, said he, but do what youl ean. On a time she had hid all theqspiggots and fausets,. and going intoI the buttery, set a barrel a broach, and" cried to her spouse, Pray bring me aFflspiggot and fauset, or else the ale willhall run out. He sought up and down,abut could not find one; Come hereI then, said she, and put thy finger inthe tap-hole. Then she called a tailorwith whom she made a bargain. Soon16after she came to her husband, and1brought a spiggot and a fauset, saying,Pull thy finger out of the tap-hole,good cuckold. Beshrew your heartfor your trouble, said he, make no suchbargain with me again.TALE XIV.A man of Gotham took a youngbuzzard, and invited four or five gen¬tlemen’s servants to the eating of it;but the wife killed an old goose, andshe and two of her gossips ate up thebuzzard, and the old goose was laid tothe fire for the gentlemen’s servants. Sowhen they came the goose was set beforethem. What is this ? said one of them ;The goodman said, a curious buzzard.A buzzard ! said they; why, it is an oldgoose, and thou art a knave to mockus, and so in great anger departed:home. The fellow was very sorry thathe had affronted them, and took a bagand put the buzzard’s feathers in it;but his wife desired him, before hewent,to fetch a block of wood, and in the in-17ferim she pulled out the buzzard’s feath-rs, and put in the goose’s Then thean, taking the bag, went to thegentlemen's servants, apd said, Pray, belot angry with me, you shall see i hadi buzzard, for here be the feathers.Then he opened the bag, and took outthe goose’s feathers. Upon which onebf them took a cudgel, and gave him adozen ofstripes saying, Why, you knave,t :ould you not be content to mock us atiw I •/home, but you are come here to mockis also ?TALE XV.A man’s wife of Gotham was broughtto bed of a male child, and the father in-(vited the gossips, which were childrenbf eight or ten years of age. Theheldest child’s name was Gilbert, theSecond’s name was Humphrey, and(;he godmother’s name was ChristaheJ.Their relations admonished them di-gvers times, that they must all say af-t'jter the parson. And when they wereI all come to church, the priest said, BeISyou all agreed of the name? Gilbert!Humphrey, and Christabel, said thesame. The priest then said, Where¬fore came you hither? They imme¬diately said the same. The Priest beingamazed, could not tell what to say,but whistled and said—Whey, and sodid they. The priest being angry, said,Go home, you fools, go home. ThenGilbert, Humphrey, and Christabel, didthe same. The priest then provided I'god-fathers and god-mothers himself.TALE XVI.A young man of Gotham went awooing to a fair maid : his mother warn¬ed him before-hand, saying, wheneveryou look at her, cast a sheep’s eye ather, and say, How dost thou, my sweetPigsnie ? The fellow went to a butcherand bought seven or eight sheep eyes.And when this lusty wooer was at din¬ner, he would look upon this fair wench,and cast in her face a sheep’s eye, say¬ing, How dost thou do, my sweet Pigs¬nie ? How I do, said the wench,mvine's lace, what do you mean by?rasting a sheep’s eye at me ? O ! sweeti Pigsnie, have at thee with another. Butj| defy thee, Swine’s face, said thevend). What, my sweet old Pigsnie,' ie content, for if you live till next yearitou will be a foul sow. Walk knave,! valk, said she, for if you live till nexti7car you will be a fool.TALE XVII.Thf.re was a man of Gotham whoLou Id he married, and when the dayof marriage was come, they werjt to| hurch. The priest said. Do you sayj fter me. The man said, Do you* sayj liter me. The priest said, Say not af¬ter me such like, but say what I shallli * J ^Hell you ; thou dost play the fool tolock the holy Scriptures concerningMatrimony. Then the fellow said. ThouBost play the fool to mock the holyScriptures concerning matrimony. Theihest could not tell what to say, butmswered, What shall I dowitb this fool?kid the man said, What shall I do with20this fool ? So the priest took his leave?and would not marry them. But hewas instructed by others how to do,w 7and was afterwards married. Andthus the breed of the Gothamites hasbeen perpetuated even unto this day.TALE XVIII.iThere was a Scotsman who dwelt atGotham, and he took a house at a little :distance from London, and turned it|into an inn, and for his sign he would !have a boar's head. Accordingly hewent to a carver, and said, Can youmake me a bare head? Yes, said thecdrver. Then said, he, make me a barehead, and thou’se.hae twenty shillings,for thv hire. I will do it, said the car-ver. So on St Andrew’s day, before:Christmas, the which is called Yulein Scotland, the Scot came to Londonfor his boar’s ht*.d to set up at his;door. I say to thee, speak, said theScotsman, hast thou made me a bare,head? Yes, said the carver. He;went and brought a man’s head ol,wood that was bare, and said, Sir, thereO 1is your bare head. Ay, said the Scot,the meikle de'il! is this a bare head ?Yes? said the carver. I say, said the^Scotsman, I will have a bare head likethe head that follows a sow withjgryces. What, whoreson, know youmot a sow that will greet and groanand cry a-weak, a-weak. W hat, saidthe carver, do you mean a pig? Yes,i said the Scotsman, let me have herhead made of timber, and set on hera scalp, and let her sing—Whip whire. -IT be carver said he could not. \ouwhoreson, said he, gar her as she d singWhip whire.%t'urcL TALE XIX_wIn old times, during these tales, the((wives of Gotham were got into an ale-Mjouse, and said they were ,all, profitable<;to their husbands. Y hich way goodIgossips ? said the ale-wife. The firstisaid, I will tell you all, good gossips ;I cannot brew nor bake, therefore Ifm every day alike, and go to the ale-ouse because I cannot go to church;22!and in the ale-house I pray to God tospeed my husband, and I am sure mjprayers will do him more good thaimy labour. Then said the second, Jam profitable to my husband in savin*, iiof candle in winter, for I cause rhusband and all my people to go tobed by day-light and rise by day*light. The third said, I am pro;fitable in sparing bread, for I drinla gallon of ale, and I care not muclfor meat. The fourth said, I am loatito spend meat and drink at home, sogo to the tavern at Nottingham antdrink wine, and such other things a:God sends me there. The fifth saidA man will ever have more company iranother’s house than his own, and mostcommonly in the alehouse. The sixtlsaid, My husband has flax and wool tcspare, if I go to other folks’ houses t(do their work. The seventh said, ispare myhusband’swoodandclothes, ancsit all day talking at other folks’ fires;1The eighth said, Beef, mutton, and porlllare dear, I therefore take pigs, chick¬ens, conies, and capons, being of a lesS3ser price. Tiie ninth said, I spare myihusband’s soap, for instead of washingionce a week, i wash but once a quarter.IfThen said the ale-wife, I keep all myi ihusband’s ale from sowering ; for as I5 was wont to drink it almost up, now I■ never leave a drop.J1 i TiCi^r *fri -r 111% ,rTALE XX.'n Ash Wednesday, the minister ofGotham would have a collection fromhis parishioners, and said unto them,My friends, the time is come that youInust use prayer, fasting, and alms, buticome ye to shrift, I will tell you morefpf my mind. But as for prayer, Iidon’t think that two men in the parishtan say their Pater noster. As forlasting, ye fast still, for ye have not a)t;'ood meal’s meat in the year. As forjtlm-deeds, what should they give thatyiave nothing ? In Lent you must re¬frain from drunkenness and abstainurom drink. No, not so, said one fel-w, for it k an old proverb, that fishould swim. Yes^ said the priest, theyS4must swim in the water. I crave tta Imercy, quoth the feliCsw, I thought ishould have swam in tine ale,, for ,have been told so. Soon after, tfaij!men of Gotham came to shrift, ancbeing seven, the priest knew not wh$|penance to give. He said, if I enjoifyou to pray, you cannot say yomPaternoster. And it is but folly tcjmake you fast, because you never eat|;a meal’s meat. Labour hard, and gef!a dinner on Sunday, and I will partake!of it. Another man he enjoined tcj!fare well on Monday, and another on!Tuesday, and one after another, that:'one or other should fare well once injthe week, that he might have part q|their meat. And for aim deeds, thepriest said, ye be but beggars all ex¬cept one or two, therefore bestow youralms on yourselves. |i