| Printed by ].& M. P.obsrtfoa, Saltnurket, 1802.T H EFortunate W eaver’sO R, T H ZLandlady well Pleafed.to which art: AnrsfiD,It he la d y's d i a r f-The Love & Rage of HigjiUtid DonaldDRINKING DROWNS CABR AV E D O N A L D M‘ C il A W.f j E N N Y N E T T L E S' •f THE MALT M A N; *The Fortunate WEAVER’S UPRISE“T AST night as I came into town,I j I was both wet and weary,Into a tavern { did go,hoping relief was near me :They conducted me to the tap-room,I call’d for punch was fmoaking.My landlady and 1 fat down,and there we fell a jokeing.We drank about till it was out,. then I call’d in another—When in the (hop we heard a rap,the daughter calling mother.She faid, my child, forbear a while,and do your beft endeavour.For ieai'e my heart, if I can partthis darling fportir.g weaver.' •I p'ut my anne around her neck,her cheeks they blufh’d likc^cofes ;She fa’ul, young man, call what you will,you will not be impos’d on.I took her gently by the hand,and embrac’d her in my arms,With one'confent we went to bed,and there we Hept till morning.^ V -jll Then the next morning when I rofe,I look’d fo melancholy,.Thinking of my night’s repofcand of my paft folly.She call’d me to her breakfaft room,the tea beiiTg on the table.She fa:d, my lad, be not fo fad,fare well whilll you are able.When brcakfaft things were laid afide,and all things fair and c*(y,I She faid my boy, don’t feem fo ftiy,I have a job will pleale you^And if that you work journey work.I’d have you go no farther $I’ll pleafe your mind with coarfe and fineand a loom in proper order. %Immediately we did agree,and with her then 1 tarried-,1 wrought her piece mod charmingly,and foon after we got married.In unity we do agree,no couple can live better,Both night antf day I bear the fway,for weaving of her chequer.Now to conclude and end my fong,1 hope %ou’re not offend 'd,If 1 faid qny thing that’s wrong,it’s moie than I intended* ’( 4 )I hope this vn'A a warning heunto ail Hnen-weaVers,To always pleafe the. land lady,and keep her in their favour.T HE LA D Y * S I) I A R 7.fE C T U R*D by Pa and Ma o'er niglit,^ Monday, at ten, quite vex’d and jealous,Ilefolv*d in future to be right,and never lufen to the feilows!Stitch'd half a Wideband, read the.text, .^receiv’d a note fionv Mrs. Uackit:I hate the woman, Ihe fat next.all church-time, to fwcet Captain Clackit.Tuefday got fcolded, did not care,the toaft was cold, *twas paft eleven fI dreamt the Contain, rhrough the air,on Cupid’s wings bore me tcvhenv’n JPouted and din’d, drefsM, look’d divine,'made an excufc, got Ma to back it;V/ent to the play, what joy. was mine rtalk’d loud & laugh’d with Captain Clackit.Weduehlay came down, no lark fo gay !the girl's quite alter’d, laid my Mother;CryM Dad, 1 rectdlefi the daywhen, Dearie, thou wert fuch another. ,Danc’d, drew a ikhdlcape, fk'mn’d a play,in -the pr.p?r read that wiqow "lackitTo Gretna-Grcm hsd run away,*the forward utinx! with Captain Ciackit.-•'V- ( 5 ) • • /Tivuifday feU fick; poor (oul, (he’ll die ;live cl actors came with length’ned faces jill Each felt my pulfe ; ah, me ! cry'd i,are thele my promis’d loves and graces lI Friday grew worfe ; cry'd (Via, in pain,our day was feir, aeav’n do not black it;II Where’s your complaint, love? In my brain,\»hat (hfd! I o.iw vrtii ? niarlcif.what lhall I p,ive you ? Captain Clackit.Early next morn a noftrum cameworth, ail their cordials, balms, and fpices,A letter; I had been to b'ame ;. the Captain’s truth brought on a crifis:Sunday, for fear of more delays,of a few clothes l made a packet.And Monday morn Itep: in a chaife,and ran away with Captain Clackit.The Love and rage or High land Jonaid.Ighland Donald, fwore a wifewas not lo great an evil,And an« but a husband’s life,vgas hire a Highland devil.Then Highland Donald tun’d his pipe,he had been feme months married ;H1Severely .now he feels a whipfor Horns cur Donald carriedNow HighlSnd Donald thump’d his wife,he fwore flic was net civil.And to get quit, he’d part with life,' and fend her to the Devil.DRINKING DROWNS CAJIE.FI jfc L your glaffes, baniili care,Wealth ami worldly care defpife, .Sorrow ne’er can bring relief;Joys from drinking will arkc.Why fhould we with anxious care.Spoil what Nature’s made fo fair ?Chor. Drink ^md fet your heart at refl ;Of a bad bargain make the beft.Mirth when mingled with our wine,Makes the heart alert and free:Let it rain, or fnow, or thine,Mi the-feme it is to me.There’s na fence againft pur fate,Cfhanges daily on us wait, Chor. Drink &c.Some purfuc the winged wealth,Some to honour do afpire;Give me freedom, give me health,'I hat's the fum of my defwe,Whiit this world could more prefeat,Would riot add to my content.*Chor Drink and fet your heart at refl;Of a bad bargain make the beft.' B R AV E D O N A L D M‘ CIIA W.IIG il L A N D Donald’s got a wife,"I and O! an he be wordie o’ her jFor eve.7 nignt that he comes hamc,he claws the Highland hurdles 0' her.(’ 7 >Now Maggie fidg*d and claw’d her head,cry’d, Donald will ye murder me ^But he laid on the other thump,you cuckold me, oh-on-o-rie.iWhen Donald and bis wife had done,they both with one confcnt did part,A fodger he went off to be* *and Maggy keeps a ehcatful heart.JENNY NETTLES.SA W yc Jenny Nettles,Jenny Nettles, Jenny Nettles,Saw ye Jenny Nettles,coming frae the market;,Bag and baggage on her back,her fee and bountith in her lap }Bag and baggage on her back,and a babic in her oxter.I met ayont the Kairny,Jenny Nettles, Jenny Nettles,Singing till her bairny,Robin Rattle’s*bad&rd ;tTo flee the dool upo’ the ftool,and ilka anc that mocks her.She reumi about feeks Robin out,to flap it in his oxter.Fy, fy ! Robin Rattle,Robin Rattle, Robin Rattle ^Fy, fy ! Robin Rattle,ufe jenny Nettles kindlye. . ( 8 ) IScore out the blame, and Ihun the fliame,and without more debate o^.Tak Lame ycur wain, mak Jenny fain,the leel and leefc.me gate o't.- m —'« ■■awimairTffTwimimim-—iiini (■i* ■■ ■T El E M ALTMAN.TH E maltman comes on Munday,be craves wonder fair.Cries. t’’ Dame come gt’c me my filler.Or iall ne’er get mairi'*I took hhn into the pantry.and gave him fome cock-broo,Syne paid him upon a gantree,as hoftler-wives ihould do.When maltmen come for filler,and gauger^ w'd w^ands o’er foon,Wives, tak them a’ down to the cellar,and clear them as l ha’e done.This bewith. when cunzte is fcanty,will keep them frac making din }The knack I learn’d frae ar. aukl aunty,the lhaekeft o# a’ my kin.The maltman is right cunning,but I can be as fiee,An’ he may crack o’ his winning,whan he clears fcores wi’ me ;For come whan he likes, I'm ready,but if £rae hame I be,Let him wait on our kind Lady,/he’ll anfwer a bill for me.— .   ■ ■ — — - ■' 1 nrGlafgo*v, Printed l>y J» & M. Rsbertfw* Sait market, i Sot.