THEEXPLICATIONO FT H O M A S R Y M E Li'sPROPHECIES,Wherein is contained|j Certain REMARKS of what is already come topais: With i’ome curious Obfervatious onwhat is yet to come, Carefully collected' andcompared w’th anc ent Old Prophecies,* andthe book of A R M S : 'By that famous StiHitnr.Mr ALL AN BOYD, M A.; Late ProfelTor of Predations in London.Edinburgh Printed in the YEAR, 179?(}*Thomas Rymer’s Prophecies,O GOTLAND be fad now and lament,^ tt y children now is loft,Berea v’d of thy kings, falfly updone,by thine'unkindly boft.Alas, the free is bound become,and deceit is thy fall, , .The falfehocd of the Britifn race,has brought thee into thrJl i'fjioa •The grave’of the molt noble prince,to ail is great regrcte, ■^ ' ;t ,Thefu j.CL to taw who doth leave,the kingdrm and clbate.O anguilh where every kind, ,, ;,3-t3ftyand ages doth lament,Whom bitter death' has ta’cn ith'ay,fimli Scotland lore repent. ■ i ; -Lately a Lntl of yth fntfeafe/- ; <a nation (tout and tret', ' : ...lias loft ilu if former,;, ;JS[gwhich'they did held tifd^eoi :. j,.' • f.r!f}By hard (onhicl and by trie (hancc,of noble fortune’s font,T! y hap and thypolU-lity, r ., ,CI s,, *i-terntd ini<; vvorfe. ’• ,• , ,Thou wont to win now is ftibdu'd,and come in under yoke;A fttanger reigns and doth d«ftroy,:what likes him by fvvords lirokc,The Kiighlh face who noVf Ty force,no inaiincr»do approve,Woe is to thee, by guile'and fhght.is dvjly win above.Tliiy migi-t) nation was to-fore,inv/rcic- c and ftour.Has yieJed flow to dcftiny,great pity is but cioubi.In former age the Sco's renown,did flourifh goodly gay,But np\v alas is over clad,with a great dark decay.Then mark and fee what is the cauf*,of this fo wond’rous fall.Contempt of faith, fd'ehcod, deceit,the wrath t»f God withad.Unfatiahle greed of worloly gain,oppreflion ci ies of poor,A perpet and a fl :nd« -his face,no jultice put in ure.Ihe haughty pi jdeof mighty men,^ of former vice chief .obaie.The nutriture .®f vvickednds/an unjull match of laws.Thererore this cauie the dropl ets toldof long time did pi efagefAs now happen’d every point,into your prelertvage.Since fate is fo, pew Scotland learn,in patience to abide,'Slanders, greatfears, and fuddeaplague?,and great dolours more befide;. , V'For out of thee fhall people riie,with divers happinefs,And not a pen con fcarcely write, *thy hurt, fkaith and diftrefs;And yet, be wire ti ou not diftruft/although o’erwhelm’d with grief.Thy ftroke r. not i^erpetuai,for thou fhalt find relief.I do fuppofe altko’ too late,old prophecies'fitall hold,liOpe thou in God’s goodnefs ever,and mercies itjanifold.For thou that now a patient art,and ft emeth to be bonnd.At liberty (Itail free he fer,wiib Empire be renown’d.From high above (hail grace come down,and thy hate Scotland be,In latter end more p&3fp£rbu$,nor former age-did feeOld prophecies foretold by thee,a warlike heir lie’s born,Who (hall recover new his right,advance his kingdom’s horn.Theft iliah the Scots f 'eet with htood,and (laughter that they make,The KingI'.imfelf revenger (hail,the gudty troops down wreck,The Englifh nation ihali mvade>but not tfcape a plague.With fword with tuiifl, with tear and pc ft,with fears and fpcli like ague.And after enemies thrown down,and n afiered by war,Then Scotland in peace quietly,pafs joyful days for ever.When HEMPE is come and alfo gone,Scotland and England dial] be one:K K CL K <Henry Edward Mary Philip fi,VHP VI. of Sp^in fQiMaiyVHub:PraTed be God alone, for Hempe’s come 3c TonAnd left us old Albion to join in one.THF explication of the above prophe¬cy concerning Hempe being comeand alfo gone, and leaving Scotland andEngland join’d in one, is fulfil!.ed in thehte K William, who came outofHolli d,which in o'd times was vulgarly-call’dthe land of Hempe, and the joining thetwo nations together, fignifies, the union.Thefe things were foretold by the twoScots prophets tn the reign of King Arthurifl: by the marvellous Merling, who is/aid to be got by the devil, who ravifheda young woman, his mother, in a woodnear Coldftream, in the fouth of Scotland ;afterwards to the fan^e purpoie thefe andm?ny more ftrange things which wereforetold by Thos. Lermon, vulgarly call’dThosl Kyiner, becaufe he fpoke all hisprophetical fayings in rhyme, and Jo darkthat they could not be un/erftood till theycame tb pafs.This Thos. Lermon or Rymer, wasborn at Erdington, now calbd Hefling-town. ou Twee.ifide about Kelfo. He isreported by hiflorians to be a quite foberman, given to. no manner of vice butprone t© piety an.l devorioa a famousmonthly prognosticator concerning theftate of the weather, and government of:the world by ftudying the planets, Hebeing one day afbed by a nobleman wbatfort of a day it would be to-morrow? Heanfweced, that before high noon, a blart:fhould b!aw, that Scotland fhould notovercome the evil heeds thereof for twentyyears t ere:<fter. I he nob'emanf and manymore being greatly amazed, an.i givingg- Ht attention, looking for the Iblaft allth morning til! towards evening;, he fentfor 1’hos. to rf buke him for the fa'. hoodbt the prophecy ; and juft-as he began roupbr .i ih m, he herrd the found of thepod's hojrn who* ( ame with the wodullhe'Af that the king had been hunting,and broke his ne k o* er a craig on the .•vyeft hcTeof the tovyn of King horn, fromwhich acciJent tho town derived it’s nameNow fays l hos - the blaft is blawn. For20 years after there was no pease, butbloodv wars in Scotland, on account ofwho Could be kina, ^As to the. account of the reft of hisprophetical layings, they are hard to befo underrtpoa; becaufe they pointed outthe coats of artrs, which appertain to fomany different kingdoms rnd perions.Yet \ye obferve how he has pointed outplainly, many thirds which has come topals in our days, fuch as the extirpation ofthe noble race of Stuarts ihe revolution.Sheriffmoor*, concerning which, he fays,that.Three fiiips and a fhield,I That day fhall keep the field jAnd be thb Autelp^s beild.thefe three fhips and a (hield are in theDuke of Argyll ^rms; and even everyt particular of the; Rebellion in 1745“, 46wheji'pointing at.which he fays.I A Chiefftm unchofen fnall cliufe forth| himfelf, an ] rule the realm as his own. ,As to King Charles IT; he calls him afly fox bird, w-ho would, turn to CK ift! ' with tods, and foxes wylt£, meaning h:sL fwearing the covenants. Wile • Ipeak gI of the battle of Prefton par^ in the ear1745, he names tiie very tvro nrigh ^our-t ing villages to be the Ipqt where- it wasfbught, viz, Gofeyfoord Green and on,j faying, between that andthe fea tor vowJ fhail be brought by the light of t'.e mo^n,! which actipn i ealy came.to pats that mor-| ning the. buttle of Preflon wa» idtrjht.but how the lypti was hurt that time andnot peiceived is yet a myfiery, fomc •• reof opinion, that it was by taking aw ythe fuperiority from the chiefs oi tire high-1 la-d clans, that they cannt raife men infuch a Ikort time as formerly, thde are a( 8 >few obfervations vre make ®n ibings al¬ready come to pafs; and what is yet tocome there will fome remarks yet happenwhen the time draws nigh, fuch as, whentaabet’s craigs is tumbled into the fea.When Forth and Clyde fliall join theirftreanas,And fhips between thefe rivers fweems,Great kings and queens will {t|nd agaft,Each trembling at the cruel blaft.the next feafon, or fummcr thereafter,great forrow and bloodfhed lb all happento this realm, the chief thereof fuch as,drawing on fleds, and chopping off heads,there is alfo mention made of a lord witha lucken hand who will breed great con-fufion in Britain, feveral of thefe., thingsare already come to pafs, the reft it isthought will foon follow.FINIS.