A preparationS E R M O N,before Receiving theIOLY SACRAMENT.y the late Reverend JOHVT WILE ISON,minifter of tlie gorpel at Dundee.,Cor. it- 27- Wherefore ■vubofaf'Vtr (hdl cat thiiIre ad. and drink this cup of the Lo'd unworthily,! flail be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.T H E apoftle having heard of feveral afcufes that* had crept in among the Corinthians wich rdprAthtir partaking at tile Lord's fupper, does feVere-1 rebuke them; and, for their amendment, laysipwn the platform of Chiifl‘6 ir.ftitution to them,uom the 23d to this verfe; and. having done lo, hepines to draw a conclulion or inference, from thexflrine he had been teaching them, in the text g’therefore whoflsver flail tat this bread, &c q. d.Ijeingk is fo that this great ordinance is of Chrift’swpointment, and he has left it b' hind him as a me-orial of huplelf, feeing by it we (hew forth theibrd’s death then certainly the unworthy and un-ititabl* celebration of fiich an ordinance, which is| fo great concern, muft be a very heinous crime,ild a great refle Aion on the author of it, which he111 infallibly refent.Kin the words we have two things:ill. The fin itfelf propofed: Whojeruer fholl eatjRr bread, and drink this cup of the Lord unworthi-| «j i. e Whatever man approaches Ghrift's ta-|j, and partakes of thele facred f^mboisof Chrifl’sbody nnd blood, having an irreverent, irreligiousnn worthy and unluitablt carriage of heart, is guiltJof a o eat u itne, as v« fleflo'g not on the eknientjthcmftlvcs, bur vilipending ih i which they repu tent;And, to aggravate if, he c dls it the head atid cufof the Lord. Tho’ it were but common bread ubcvine, to ule it unworthily were a crime; but u iitlie bread and v;ne of the Lord, inilituted b) i in:fer his glory and eur lalvation ; and thcreloie it iia far gieatcr uin:e to ute if unworthily. T i,,s unjtvofthmels rcfpi t^s not the ptrlon of die receiver fcmuch as tlie niamieV of his rectivirg : the apeflkfpenks not of a worthinefs of the peilon, but a wor;fhireis of the aftion ; for he fays rot, V\ s aifoevtiunworthy perfon cats, be for then he had excludedevery man, for we aie all unworthy. Moreoverthe apcflle woids it thus, to be a caveat even to Jksliewers, 0!nd regenerate as well as natural pei it hr,that peopled© net partake of the Lord‘s 1 tapper e*tbtr in an unworthy liate or unworthy frame. Sche infinuates that e ven regeneratt pttlonsmay com!inunicate nnw orthily , whieh here- does note the wantof aright golptbfiame and e'iipolition of joul; k3’he guilt o-f this fin ; /hail h gi.ilty cf the 1&dy atid blood of the Loul; i. e. fliall either be gtiil^ty of an egregious profanation and contempt ofChrifW body, feting any abide of tire hmg‘s p diireis reckontd an abide of himfrlf; Or iluy fhall heranked in with the Jews who actually crucified hin^ipierced his body, j r.d fl' rd his blood.Hence we oblerve, 1 hat unworthy communicateing is a fin ©f great guilt and liazaul. And there¬fore in furthei ducouriing on this fubjeilt, we fhalkend cava ur to flrow,I. What we are tounderftand by unworthy com¬municating.II. W herein corihfts tlic guilt and danger of it; |1>erfed purity and ipotlels o:- u taint* d halin'- s .dors'lot make a p-rfon an unworthy comnutmc.'nt. (he<e imp'rfeftions be regreted and mourned over «or what mortal can fay that he has clean led hi - heart,m l that he is pure fr«m fin? Prtyy. io. y. N’ ith r,!. does the want of great knowledge Thu* a n . ofnd -tiftand not the nice debar -s and abrtrule ichol t.c difpuces in dhriniry yet, :f he kno v the founda*lental principles of religion, he may be a wor-ly communicant. Nor, 3. doth lorn ■ n afu e ofeaknefs of faith, attended with oi r, douhts and!ars, render one an un.vorthy com amiauit * forhrifl- fiys to his dilciples, 0 ye of little faith, yet|pth. he not reject them; and he received tha; man,idark 9 22. who had bit' a very weak veav: rinjjriiith, and loon after tried out with tears; / believe,■’word, help my unbelief Nor yet, 4. doth the wantif fenfible joy or comfort in or after coimnuiucating.irlindcr a perton’ from bring a worthy part^k r : forfiere may be a lively a&ing of the graces, while yetmere i? no great fenfe of God’- f .vouf.(Put, pafitively,xinviorit\vCommunicating at Chrill’s|H!e, is, 1 VVhtn a perlon communicates more forjfuflom than for conlciencefake; when m n come.||) the table of the Lord becauie it is the fa (hi on ofie country where they live, and becaole all their■ighbours do fo, and they mull go along with them>r company’s lake and th^t it would riot be luckyj >r them if dity got not their facrairfent with their•iglibonrs ; b it (till have no leiife upon their fpiritsChi id’s comm.mand npr oi me defigns, the ule-i Inefs and comfort of this iacrament- I>et us trem-e and eoniider their hazard. 4. When a psrfon communicates wither it under-I Hiding his necdfity of Chrift, and the native at»ll ds of this ordin nice; when a pel Ion knows noti e need of a Redeemer to rccoyor him out of his*ruined natural ftate, or of his blood to cleanle aticfheal his wounds, and his rightroulhcfs to coyer hianakednds. This ordinance is a c^ntrafl betwixtGod and iinners: you can never go about it wor¬thily, unleis you underftand the nature of the cove-mut and the terms ©n which you engage: you muft,know yourtelvQs to be poor and naked, lick andwoundee, under the curie af the law, tlte coiruprionof iin, and the pomcr of Satan, and Chuff's fitneisand iuitabkiKis to recover and help you, otherwaysyou cannot diictrn the Lord'b body aright.3. When a perl011 nIts on the bare ordinance,without looking to Ch'ilt in if, and on the naked?fig'u and 11,- meuts for pardon and juftiticatioh* jflow' many are theic who thus content them<tlve$iW'> h Etijat.' k maitlc, without a iking for the God of:Xiijab ? i hey take the ill ell ior the keinal, and theffhatidow for the fuhftance- Many think, if they?get their communion as they call it, rho’ it be no*;'tiling but a bit of bread and a iip of wine, they are?■well, they are out of all danger of hell and the de-til ; and thus they make it a mere charm.4 When a perfon continues in habitual and fre¬quent breaches of known commands, unrtpented of|lor in the oruiffiou of known duties, fuch as family*worihip or itcret prayer; for tkole who forgefci fChrilf all the year long are not likely ro rtmeinbel| Jhim aright at a communion-table: or yet when one Lcontinues in the commiliion of known fms, fuch atf 6idrunkenneis, fwearing, uncleanncts, covetouineisj 'fabbalh breaking, ire. or lyes in any feeret lan un-j 1repentei' of, iuen as revenge, or malice at his neigh4hour. The heart that is a habitation for any of!thcle kind of devils, is not a fit temple to rcceivej 'Chrift. O dinner, would it thou invite Chrift intoj ithat chamber where ail bis murderers are lodged flfKot, certainly, unlcfs thou hadft a dciign to ci uci-*f.fjf liiaa over again.... < ! > -u5. It is to communita'c wifhouf any previousrtparatioa, anu lerjous pains, by prayer and fd£.■xamination. If you would communicate worthily,■ foil mutt ule all end' avours.to train your hearts andliijtncK. your touts in older to entertain the mailer of]he feait, Cnnft iaitu to every perlon who intend*6 partake ot this ;a ramenr as Samuel faid to JeJJ'e’li|ous, i S/im, \6 15. Sanchf) yourfalveSt and comemill) me to ths Jac>>jicc. R.-m mocr what a rebukefl hnit jave to the nun who came to the feaft, andilvas not at pains t» forego put on the wedding gafi*IJnent, Matih. 22 it 12.1! o it is to communicate without rememberingjtChrilt or his deavh, winch is the great'dcfign of thejardinnice, Luke 2 4. 20, -Yud this is not n barei j'peculative or Mitorical remembrance, but a pradi-cal and a grateful heait aft- ding retnunbrance, tuch't rememoi ance as a man hath when tie lees the p:c-urc of a clear friend who is dccealed or afftent fromn: he not only remembers his perfon, but the mu-ual love that was betwixt them, and the many yood'fttces bis friend hath done for him Well, if yeould communicate, aright, ye ihookl remember.hrift’s painful death and bitter agonies ; how hejlung on the crols wtih his be .y torn and bleeding\il over: how heaven, earth and hell, jultice, menind devils,let upon him at once; hew he was brokeaitnd bruited by his father in the day of his greatwrath , how the thorns pierced his temples, and drevrleep furrows in his face; and how he (uftervdalljins for fin ne rs, and m the niklflof all ft ill maintain*'id a vehement and conllant love to them. He hadfin of his own; and all his furrows, cries, groan*igonies, wreftlings- and itrugglings, were for us,communicaius, take a view of theie things to*ight, and ye will be fitter to remember them to*irro!v»f. Tt is to approscli without that awful dread at'llijrrvi rancr of fiod which w«* fhould have on on lfpirits. O carolers livn. r, who can approach Goditable as unconcernedly as if von v etc going to fidown at a common tealh trenu'e, for you will eaand drink unworthily. You mull ; pproach with ;^ . reverrrce of *he hohrefs and jufHce of God, whh ted fin fo much, to vehemently, that .he coult|la »d by while his d;ar fon was filtering for it, yeaand ftriiggliny in the cruel pang^ of death ajn* rg thjI hands of Woody murderers, and that without an)rJonfirg of heart What eaithly.father but woutjaccount h* filterings of his fon as the rending ojhis howc s? Yet it pUaftd the Lord to bntife him'6>'d to put him to grief I fa 53 to. This was ^gr. a f evidence of the inexoraulenefs of hi' jull.ee)than if he had hurl-d (he whole woild full of mtijand angels imo h II Therefore, when we approacl]to eat ard re> drnk at the table of the I oni. w^fhould b. fillfd with a reve ert al adoration of th<5jultice of God, and alfo of his pun y, and of hisall feeing and piercing eye that is beholding us atthe time of communicating. If men had the re*cent imprdlions of this, would they eat and drinkfo unconcernedly and irreverently? They wsuldltouch this bread and this cup with the fame awe anal reverar.ee that the woman with the boqdy illuctouched the hem of Chrifi’s garment, and that wasquaking and trembling, Mark 5. 33.8 It i- to fit down with a cold heart, wantinglove to Chrift. O communicants, th . is a love*feaft an litis with love you cm entertain rhrift,Jf you be an enemy to him you have nothing to,.ido at his fable : tnis is a V aff for Irion s only, Cant.5. 1. Fat, 0 fr erds j drink, ye* drink abundant-h. 0 beloved. Whatever be warning, love multnot be wanting; lor 1 >ve is th» Spring Thar movethall the graces, faith, repentance, delight, &c. An( 7 >S.ivinnr rcqu -rs an enVir^ed heart; andjlm'oihing i» more h;c 'nnng than th it love thould be.wircorop need with love O liuner,'here you mayfee God biiogino* hi. Son from heaven to eanh,ilr-dm tiie earth to the croby from-the1 cryfs to-'the1-Krave, aru) pouring oct fiii i l od to keep us trainKlee ‘-irg. fl meit-b .--toat without love mere is noporthy eoumii nieeiiHg, oenetu by the lUcramtnt, •jno cbm-nnuion \i n C, .1 Jot 11 14 ;i. U* that\\ovttb me fhall be loved of my Father, and vcr. 23.We will come anto him, and make our abode 'withmm, O timier, why therefore ^ill thou not lovejpiritt ? Go home, and lecretly take a view of Chrift 1ifind ins love, and rearer your wantrof love, and fay*)l‘ Lord, 1 have a cold heart; O do thou inflame it.;|1ow can I look onia S tviduh who had his hands nail-, <1, his head picked, his iides pierced, Ids heart griev-jd, for my dins, and not love him? Can 1 foehokli'je arms of the Son of God open on the crots, thetjjpear reaching his heart, his affe&ions fit t aming outlb us in blood, when we were enemies to him, and||ill he fo cold and indifferent.”f 9. It irto communicate wiih unbroken hearts forhn O finner, a whole heart and a broken Ghrfftill never fuit together. This paffovtir niuft beiten with bitter herbs; ye can have no comfort inins ordinance without it; ye jmitt ^ow in tears if; would reap in joy. Therefore come humbly andlournfully acknowledging that all thclc tlroko lhatere laid on Ghrift were due to us, and that the tra-leciy that was a&td on him fhmdd have been adtd1 us ; we fliould have been the irurk of.all the ar-ws of God’s vengeance; it is on us that all the vi-is of wrath fhduld have been panted our. V\ hen; was bruiled for our iniquities, we Uiould haveen b; uifed down to hell under the milftonc of Gou’srath; when he groaned on the crols, it was wert tkould have roared with the devils to fJI o.y ,It is our fins t’lat have dune all: O curfcd fin 1 Ifye would not be unworthy coirmunicants, ye (houldcome here with a great mourning for fin, for ally*ur b> part fins, and for your breaches of vows fincethe laft facramcnt, for crucifying Chrifl over again,and caufing bis wounds to bleed afrefii O is yourheart whole and hard, go home and regrete it, andkcry tq God, That you are afraid of unworthy com¬municating, and dareft not approach his taoie with:fuch a, heart. And endeavour to be as much affefl-ed in time of communicating as if you heard everypiercing groan of Chrift in the garden, and numb,bred every drop of blood that trickled down from;him, and had been, prefent and law the foklicrs dri¬ving in the nails and flabbing in the fpcar. Did therocks rend, the fun va'rl hiinlelf, and the heavens?mourn in black, and will your fouls remain quaffec-tted? Look upon him till your hearts be fet a-mourn-,ing aj one tuournetb for his only fon and be in bitter-.rtefs as one is in bitternefs for his firJl-born, Zcch.it. iq, Let all the (prings of furrow be openedai d gufh our.io. It is to communicate with loofe wanderinghearts, that are thinking on the world when theyIhould be fixed on Cbrift?s dying. Will any ven¬ture to come here and fit down to morrow with the >' <world in their hearts, and their thoughts roving a- cbout it, and not to much as give any notice toChrill's :dying groans, more than it were the death of fome vTdafi-Indict prince they were hearing of What have iyou to do with the world at Chrifl’s table? It will ijnake him abhor you. O go home this night, and. jtrike pains to clcanfe and empty your hearts of albthe ruhbifh of vain imaginations ; brirg no world-Jy thoughts to this place to-morrow, but faV to the,world and all things thereof, as Abraham laid to the »•young men, Gen. 22. 5. Jb'ide ytu here liU 1 %o*nd vjorfidp fonder. Endeavour to conic here will* s( 9 )iisis ferious an^ folemn a fr;,ine as if thou wert goingito lay down thy life. Call in all your aftt&.onj,liunite all your thoughts, contrad all the beam’ of■your f&ul and kt them be (et the pl ied beforeiyou. Cry mightily to heaven this night, “ Lord,<pity my worldly heart O banilh away the-devil,who will be ready to caft in vain thoughts, and ktime think only on a dying I^ord.”it. It is to communicate without any thankful-inels of heart, or wondering at redeeming love. IfI [we would comraunicate worthily, our hearts flaouldr ijafeend, like Manoab’i angel, in the finoke of thunkf*giving and elevation of fpirit Judg. ip 20 w«fhould have the high praiksof God in phi nioiuhs,1 and be inviting the angels and all creation to affiftms in prailing him. We fhuojd blcfs God for lend-iing his Sen, and Thrift for his dying love, in drink-•ijing up that bitter cup that we fhould have drunk tor■pver. O Tinner, canft thou not get a thank ul ad-miring heart ? Travel then into the m»Hint of Olives>fwhcre Chrilt prayed and wept. Enter into the gar*pen, where he groaned and ftrug;gkd in an agony:su e how humbly he went bearing his crafs ; and willl^iot your affections warm ?|| 12. It is to ear and drink without fpiritual hun-jfeer and third. You cannot partake of this feaft.llvlthout an appetite. It will he a Qiarae to you toIjeome to this full fcafl:, and leave your ftnmacbs at(pome. The hearts of many are glutted with theworld; and the full foul lothes the honey comb. Its only die hungry and thirdy foul that Chrift willnake welcome. When the earth is lore parchedMh drought, it greedily lucks in the rain ; io willvou very eagerly embrace ti e mercies offered in.thisipdrament, if you be luitably diipoled. Can ye lit1 own at a communion fc.b!c, and have no hungerfthe bread of life, no panting for pardon of liaC IO )Jng, u Will Chrid indeed come to this feaft? Sad•will it be for me if I mils him ’ When detires o*pens the heart widelt, then God opens his hand tar¬o-eft. PfaL 8! 10. Open thy mouth wide, and lndllfill it. Q go home and cry for a hungry heart;?< A crumb, Lord, from thy table, tli'e 1 ftarve anddie.r13, It is to communicate without exercifing faith,and laying hold on Qiriit by the rms of fiith Ifyou communicate aright, you {cal'a marriage co¬venant and bargain with Omit. And you mult lakeClnift Intirely on his own terms. You aie unwor¬thy communicants ft you think of halving it withGhrift. Embrace him not tndy as a print, but as aking; no: only to be laved by him, but to lervehim, and l.ve for him, and tie :ve to him, com®death, come I f", Do all th s w.th full delibarationiand relolu ion , lb that all the threatnings of devils,the plea'ures ot fin, the allurements of the: world,fhall never pertwade you to part with your preciousChrift again. O go home this night, and take a-;mother view of tiiis bargain and covenant, and filervalt pi ivdcges of-it; and come to-morrow lixeuljtrelolved to embrace it and adhere to it. **14 Thofe communicate unwoithily who do nofcommunicate with ftrong and unalterable rtfblutid r,©ns agaiuft tin as tlie mortal enemy of Ghrift andof their precious foolr, There are many that callby their grots ftiit, fuch as dmkennds and iwear-fing, ai d retofvd to be holy, and to pray, lor thetime of a facramem ; but wlicn it Is over, they be¬come juft as they were. If thefe be any tuch here,I wain you of your danger, that you will be guiltyrof the body and ,blood ot the Loid. O it is a lad/thing, to appear as tlhrilrians at a communion table,f iand to live like divels afterwards. I tell the-e, Ovman, to come with a heart rtlo'ved to go on in invjpeniiency, is to be waile than Judas, who was ftruefe:( 1! )th rfmorfc at fhc begining of Cbrift’s fufferings.lipid that vile traitor’s heart relent for his treacheryvhen he law Chrill ready to 1 after, and (ball welave thought* of fin and betraying of C aift, whttjfee his luft-rings fully exectited? O what is tin*-ut to be murderers of Chrift, and ro tu.n (he ta^ile of the Lord into a thamdles and a t Aceldama i,ct us thi rt fore com - wish drep 'conlide»ations ofe curled nature and demerit of fin, nrnily refolv-d to fight again ft'it to our laft breath, anJ to re-renge the blood and death of precious Chrift on it.f \Ve have bren drunkards, fwearets, faboath-oi «a-tiers, fjvgkftort of prayer, &c. ye mull reloive to.ie fuch no more.II. | proced to the Second place,to drow where-confifts the guilt and danger of unworthy com-jrunicating- It is to be guilty of the body and blood|f the Lord. A great guilt indeed! A dreadfultarge, to be reckoned among the Jews and Toi¬lers who embrued their hands in the l>lo/)d of Chrift !It is a mocking of Chrift. Yoyr-coming tois table is a pretence of love to him, that you come,icre to remember his deadi and unparalkik'd love,rd to proclaim.what obligations jy Qn you.to lovem, and to hate fin that r^ftiim lo; and there.ire when/you come away to embrace temptations as■adily as ever, you plainly declare that you wasiting with Chrift wh'-n you came to his table. Ita fotemn mocking of him You a.<ft part,id lay, Hail, mafter, while you are playing the' airor; the loldiers part, faying, flail, kins; of theus, when you dtngn to crucify him. O .viiatatilt this muft he ?|l. It is a bafe u dervaluing and contempt of thedy and blood of tihritt yt a, a regarding it as theood of a mdefaclor It is impofiiblc that an un-ortby communicant can regard it as the blood ofI innocent man, tho’ this were bad enough, in deny-1ing the efficacy of it. but he muft reeds regard iias the blood ot the higheft malef.uftur (oat ever \va.1in the world. It )t ao not own h (.ttd acetp. it eithe blood of Cod ye charge Chtji: as a grotricriminal il.an Judas, as the greatnt chtat ard imipi Iture that everwas, ill the t'-edasing bjmttlf tdbe the 5on of God. By dilng rdihg thh iaci amentye are guilty of the greateid aSlropt to CfiiA bajcan be ofttied. VV hat greater affront can be offeredthan to throw the pidune of a prince into a ndlyJakes or dunglnli? C.m you hi! parage the covenantof giace more than by I’n.vorihiiy efing the leallot it ? Can- you alfsont Chi ift more t an by comingto his table covered over with yonr fms? Should albeggar who was wallowing in a puddle intrude him*felt' in that filthy condition into a prince’? company,fit down at his table, and dip his beimeared handiinto the fame difli with him ? It is as if ye fhould la|tliat the body and blood of the Redeemer was onlyfit food for dogs and Iwine.3. It is an implicite confent and approbath 1of the Jeiys murdering of the Lord of glory. H«is iuppoitd to confent to the death of an imir<ecfl|Kpci Ion who Tet^ light of it, and is no ways affc&ettiby it, or entertains artd abftts the murder. So whojwfoever hath flight thoughts of Chrifl’s death, an«iis not grieved for his fins that were the caufe of itsl;or lodges them flill with delight in his heart, is ac|ceffary to the murder, and o is guilty ot the bloqitt.of Chrift, O my friends, if ibis a Imall guilt? Tt|;be guilty of the iarocept bluod of any perlon isdreadful crime : hut what muft ir be to be guilty c*|the blood of the Son of God? O profane finncDtwho ha? not a-mind to leave thy fins, come not dthe table of the Lord ; t! «u w ilt unbnic thy hand ifa-friffi in tin blood ofGhriff. the glorified Son aCod thou wilt be Ins executioner, and not his pu< flTherefore part with all your fins this night, and bii( )iphrifts traitors adieu tor ever You may as-wellj)rofd« opu iy at Chrift'S table to-morro^ your lovois the nails tha’ pu r ecu him^ and tht ipc ar that ranInto his fide, and adore them for iucii an aclion, asl|ome here with a love to thele fins which were moteilitter to him than ihe nails anal i’pear. The J^-ws|r Romans had no more power over him, had it notfeen for our fins: yea, i may fay, this will txei ed■4re fin of the Jews in tome icf'peds ; they crucifi-d Chrift ignorantly,but you wittingly, they reckon-d him guilry and a blatph. mer, but you do it to anJinoc; m and your Redeemer; they did it in his ftatelit humiliation, while in tire form of a fervant, but.^u do it when he is exalted at his Father's right-tand. O tremble at fuch aggravated guilt.1 4. Tire occalion whereat unworthy communicants1 ‘ucity Chrift makes it a heinous guilt: it is whileis difplaying a banner of love to you ; it is whilei’ making a rich fealt for you, yea, and offerings fiefh and blood to lave your poor fouls from pe-jffhing. Would it not be counted a horrid mon-uous crime, in a poor beggar, who is lying ftar-j|ng by the way fide, if fome hofpital man thouldrr moved with compafSon to him and take him in,id make a great lead for him, an J in the meanne, while he is entertaining him, and befeechingin to eat heartily, that he fhould ftab the mafterthe fcaft ? And will yon come to Chrift’s table,lei e he has prepared all fpiriiual and heavenly dain-fs lor you, and in faying to you, Eat, 0 friends;W, yea drink abundantly, 0 beloved; and yttII ye ei uclly dab and murder the Mader of thatfkd read? Lord, lave any of you from fuch dread-wickednefs and barbarity. To be guilty of bloodernblc : but O wliat n.nd it be to be guilty ofr blood which is inconceivably more precious thanblood of all the kings or men that ever lived,re precious than rue life of all angels and theI ole creation!( 14 )’APPLIC 4TIOK.1. Hence fee what a malignant dcvilifli naturefin hath. It turns .vholtfc nt food into .paiion, (he;waters of the fane};uary into the waters or Ma’-a, atcap ot falvationta a cup at damnation How 'hi*pid and infenfibte do -s it make the heart h wbo o uId;think that linnerr could ever become to barbarouiand hard hearted as to ftab and murder the Lord oflglory, who hith already, to tin; alloniQiment oflmen and angels, laid down his life to lave them ? I2. Hence be aftonithed at God’s patience and.*long fuffering that he live aid tuffer inch horrid and:|barbarous murderers to live lb long : that he Qiouldltuffer fa many wretches to approach his table, and!ftab him aver and over again, when be hath flames!and vengeance at command to conluinc and detbojjthem. O wonderful patience! O riches of forbear'ance! O linnets, blefs God, .that ye have yet an of4ferof that blood which alone can cleanie )ou fion*the guilt of (hedding it iBut have nor all of its reafon to lament our un*■worthiends ? Who among us can fay, that he ne*Ver contradbed any thing of this guilt of the bod$and blood of thrift? Did we never lit down at: .<’hi ill’s table with our minds wavering, our heart*;cold, our affections languishing, our fppits, that,fhotald have been in heaven, lunkin the earth ? 4las.!!:alas! Dfliner' me from blood-guihineft may be thal icry of every one ef us, as it was David’s Pfal. 5i|,14 Hb v often have we wounded him who cklive- ired us, and killed, him who faved u*, trampled odjthat blood which muft fprjnkle and cleanie us? (*[we have all of us realon to weep over a crucifie#fiain Lord, and to ntake this a place ot Bocbim tf3. VVhat care fhould we all take of preparing•urf’elvcs to come to Chrift s table with the wedthnjfC 15 )raiment, that we be not unworthy communicants,iwd lb be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord?rh nture not to come without extm, mg yout h Ives,hour fins, your graces, your wanf and your ddigns:i nd let this be a praying and wreftling nig;it withii ou O car clefs tinner, dare ft thou approach ClintPscable without prayer and repentance, and thus beuilty ot Chrilt’s blood? Thotyunneft a great nikft it; and it will be a wonder if you etcape Goa’s'tengeance- What if God break out upon you, asIn Nad*b and Abihu ? What it tie ftiouki itrike youead with a thunder-bolt on the very lpof,and makeou a monument of his wrath to all around? Youill be only obliged to God’s patience if it be other-i ays: hut fure 1 am tbou wilt draw down vaftloadsif wrath on thy foul, and it will be a lad reckoning: the long run. 1) remember what became of theIrft unworthy communicant, (if Jtidas was one):;• was immediately given up to the polldion of thei vih who entered into him with the fup. If theI vil were let loolc, what havok would he make a-i ong unworthy communicants? He would loon re-nge the blood of Chrift, and make the communi-s i table a Golgotha. O finners, will you be guilty(bedding the blood of a dear Saviour, who isiging to lave you ; will you offer to make a newerupt on his life ? If you date be fo barbarous, I1 you, heaven ail'd earth will be a witneis againft; that very blood which you profane and Ipillcry aloud to heaven for vengeance upon you :will be a witneis againft you. The laims and:1s, who behold you profaning his blood, will beences againft y ou; the communion table and cupswitneis againft you.re there any among you trembling, and fearingyou communicate unworthily, and fo be gu;lty. jhrift‘s body and blood? To luch let me lay,% would receive worthily,O come with your hearts( r6 }burning and your fouls thirfting; abhor <rur{?;tl fin,j■which was the cauf« of Chrift s luffering&; caft your-)fclvcs in the arms of a crucified Redeemer • waftvyour fouk in his blood ; hunihly plead his merits be^fore God, and beltevisgly apply them ; and he willfatisfy your fouls as with marrow and fatnefr, andjour mouth (hall praije him with joyjul tips.