thrift on the ..Croft,SUFFERING FORSINNERS!O 11,The Sinner’s Redemption?Sanctification, and Exaltation, -By the DEATH of ourLord JESUS CHRIST,By the late Pious and Godly,Mr J O H N WELSH,Mininer of the Gofpel in Jedburgh.JOHN iii. 14, 15.fnd as Mofes lifted up the Serpent in the Wiid-ernefs, fo muft the Son of Man be lifted up,tnat whofoever believeth on him, fhould ?iotperijh, but have everlafling life.k GrrVkTF a L K I _ ^o/Nr!Bl ^1 rinted and Sold by Patrick Mair,^'^ag-Shire Printing-Office, High-.Streer,PamnV * 0 ^'ro*s*Well: — Where many otherTrT 111 Divinity and Hiftor.y, may be had, inT or ftetoil, very cheap. 1784.( 2 )CHRIST on the CROSS.THESE merciful words of our bleffed Lo;and Saviour, might ravifh our Souls wrraptures of joy, to think in what a memiferable and wretched condition vwere wallowing in by reafon of fin and wickeabominations, that we were dropping into hell ateternal deftrudlion, for the gates of the bottomlelake (land open, and is like a devouring fepulclrto receive us; but blelfed be the mod glorio:name of the Lord of Hods, who has fent us, o-of his free grace and love, both a conqueror ara comforter, viz. Jefus Chi ld the fanidifier of oshearts, and the falvation of our foqls.Therefore, dear friend? and Chridians, let swith fear and reverence give attention to tHfacred word of God, in which we fhall find t!birth of our Lord and Saviour JefusChnd, whuis very mean and poor, and the place too badentertain the Lamb of God, which takes^w-II, 12.the fins of the world, Luke iibeing thus born, and laid in a manger amon*oxen and aifes, becaufe there was no room in tinn it might, in the fird pkee, perfuade us tohumble, and alfo bend our proud dubborn hea,to the iiU and fervice of God ; for Chnd obleffed Saviour, thought it no foowi or d fgto ly in a manger, to eat the bread and ^ink twater of affliaion, to be buffeted, Ipittccl ^viled, crowned with thorns, and ciuctcrofs to (bed his precious bloodi„„ of our loft fouls ; then (hall we be made 1takers of the covenant of grace, accordingying of the Prophet, Ezek. i. 6. “ Neverthelefswill remember my covenant made with thee inie days of thy youth, and I will confirm to theep everlafting covenant.”Shall we then, for all thefe fpecial mercies andivours from our infinitely loving God, ftill fport: his glory, his goodnefs and majefty, and walkke children of difobedien'ce ? ihall we pluckhrift again from the throne to crucify him ?pall we kick at his divine eflence, and requiteim with ingratitude ? Shall we deny God, ac-prding to the words of the Prophet David,The fool laid in his heart, There is no God !”10, let us be afraid to offend God, much more> deny God ; for it is a fearful teftimony ofuth, from the mouth of our bleffcd Lord andi.iout Jelus Chrift, tliat u VV^hofoever deniethe before Men, him will I alfo deny before myather which is in heaven/’ Matth. x. 13'he re fore, confider with fear and reverence*e rove of God, the goodnefs of God, the mer¬es of God, and the juftice of God : For let none^deceived, God wiil not be mocked: tho’ youuly hke to fly with your own pleafures and va-ff£S ?if 1 n6 W0rld’ Wltli°ut repentance, you willei the flfimes of punifhment: From which e-rnal defWhon, let it be the faithful defire andayers of an reople) to fay? Good Lord*t!ie hoh!S cW-t ! deVOilon arjd Picty> make uieeot ofonr fn/ UreS f0r the hdp and nouri^■ our w r°U TSb.ln ;vJ1!ch we find the lifeL wc'fnnieU,,ShCni’!ftt? bemoft P^eandiurteous > r ^ h,im low,y’ meck> tumble,Id indeed with profitable> charitable,^ Cd v/lth a minW more of fpecial gracesV 4 )and virtues, in which he doth ftrerigthen tlweak, comfort the afflidted, heal the lame, cutthe blind, make the dumb to fpeak, the deaf thear, and the dead to walk, and the infentdevils to tremble. Then, fince it is fb thChrift is our Saviour, Redeemer and Comfortehow ought we to glorify the great God of heavefor fending his only begotten Son to fuffer for fwho knew no fin : and to bear the curfe of tlcrofs for our offences ? O what fatisfadHon fhawe render to the Lord Nof lords, and Kingkings ! Nothing like a new heart, and a nefpirit, renewed by the newnefs of life, that vmay receive the new birth, without which Limpoffible to fee God. Then, as new-born babdo thivfi: for the milk to nourifh them, fa will ofsuls long and thirft after the watas of rightoufnefs, to tafte of the tree of life and to ha-our names recorded in the book of God, for ichofen ones, yea his beloved cnes, accordingthe Epiftle of Paul to the Theffalomans ch. J.Knowing brethren, beloved, your detfion oj OcO how happy is that foul, that isl*”1*df ‘and united to the bleffed umty of God the t a •God the Son, and God the Holy Ghod m vt h,divine Body, the glorious Majedy, ! 'martyrs, prophets, Prt'11", apod ,have joint communion, where th 1God encompaffes the royal camp of heavenwhere all are made heirs co-hems w thChtriumphing over death, hcL, ’■’c 1and ruling in majefty, on the J'gd ^ot felicity, joy and glory, winch .s the ^ tfinite and unipeakable, wearing crow S^cdeckt with princely diamonds, to ilfuftrateheir happinds with more glory.O my beloved friends, heaven itfelf is lovely,beautiful, rich, full of pleafurc, joy and klicity;it is a manfion of virtue, a paradite of pleafure,the kingdom of God, and the crown of glory.Then, fince Chrift was born to redeem us, let jusrun that we may obtain, let us lay hold on Chriftbv faith, and follow the iteps of his apofiles, andfollow the true worlhip of God ; but let us notfollow every whimfical brain which dilturb boththe church and the Hate. One fays, Here isChrift ; another lays, Lo there is Chrift ; butbelieve them not, but fearch the Scriptures, andthere you ftiall find where our bleffed Lord ai.%1Saviour Jefus Chrift is fitting at the right hand ofGod in power and glory.Alfo take our blefTed Saviour’s words for ateftiui<?ny of this truth. Read Matth. xxiv. quitethrough, which fbrtelleth of falie thrifts, andfalfe prophets: And fo in the Epiftle of Jude,you {hall find that the prophecies of old are nowcome to pafs ; for how many new Chrifts, andnew prophets, and ftrange confuled opinions havewe had in this latter age ? And fare enough thereis but one God, one faith, one baptifm, and oneentire commandment, which is according to thewords of our blefled Redeemer. Matth. xxii. 27.And Jefus faid unto fheni. Thou /halt love theLord thy God rvithnll thy foul, with all thy hed', /,and with all thy mind, i know no purer religionthan this is, firft to love God above all, and vourneighbour as yourfelf, and according to theVay->ng of our bleffed Lord and Saviour Jefus thrift:,for every one to do unto another, as he would thc\Jnould do unto htm. But alas! our hearts anfrail and wicked, full of deceit, nay, there anmany of them that pretend and profefs the modpurity, love, godlinefs and true religion, that daand will the fooneft of all, betray you with sJudas kils, fpeak you fair to the face, and cutyour throat. Upon which crew of infidels outSaviour Chrift cries out, IVo unto you Scribes anaPharifees, hypocrites, becaufe ye /hut up the king¬dom of heaven before men ; for you your/elves wnot in, neither Jufferye than that would entcr^tocome in. hVo unto you Scribes and Pharifees,hypocrites, for ye devour widows houfes, even un¬der a colour of long prayers, wherefore ye /hallreceive the greater damnation,'Slgdilx, xxiii. 13,14.Then, fmee it is fo, that hypocrites are fo muchhated of God, let us endeavour to love one ano¬ther with an entire and fin cere affe&ion.In the -hilt place, Let our fouls, hearts, andminds be to love God, and to fear God; as he isthe great judge both of heaven and earth.In the lecend place, Let us love ourfelves, andfeek after Chrilt for the laving of our fouls.In the third place, Let us relieve the houlholdof faith, and love our neighbours as ourfelves,that it may be laid of us as it is Paid of faithfulEnoch, that he walked with God. Let us leaveoff pride and envy? covetoufnefs and drunkennefs,fwearing and whoredom, and let our daily prac¬tice be in the divine worth ip of God with puredevotion and unfeigned piety ; 1st us relieve thepoor without grudging, tor charity is the brightellglory both in heaven and earth. The apofllePaul amplifies on the three lupei natural Graces,viz. Faith, Hope, and Charity, 1 Cor. xni. 13* ,• God, the omnipotent glory and divine Majcdy,s charity, for he has fent his only begotten Son0 fuffer for our fins, and to redeem our droopingbids that lay wallowing in blood, and being deadn fins and trefpaflcs, that by laying hold onthrift, we have free accefs to the tribunal feat ofrace, to cry Abba, Father. Secondly, Chriftefus, our bldfed Redeemer, is charity, for hebought it no lhame nor fcorn, being equal tok>d, exalted above the facrcd quire of angels, toecome man, and undergo the perfecution of the^rannical Jews, at laft to fuffer his preciouslood to be died, and his flefli nailed to the crofs,nd all this to fave his people from the punilh-aent of eternal death. Thirdly, The Holyihoff is charity, for whofoevcr hath the faith of/hi iib, hath the Holy Ghofl to be his comforter,.'hey need not fear that are ftedfaft in faith, whatlan can do to them, for man can deftroy theody only : But fear God who can caff into hellre both foul and body: And our Saviour faith,T/hofoever is brought before a Magi/irate for thefimony of the truth, needs not fear what toleak for the Holy Ghojl will tcacfr them,lark xiii. from the pth, to the 14th verfe.Gentle reader, you fhall find both the joys and>rrows the faints do endure; but, fays our bleffedord and Saviour Jefus Chrift, He that cndureth1 the end ftmll be f wed.Then feeing it is fo, that God is the God ofve, and Chriff the Sun.of glory, let me exhort>u all in the name of our bleffed Redeemer, not,v/oj-fhip any other gods but him, neither in^aven nor in earth ; and let not the riches of ther Heal away your hearts to adore money as. ( 8 )a god; nor let the vain pomps andthe world bewitch your hearts to worlhip Th >gods j but let us worfliip the great God of i. \idwith f^ar, love, ni>d reverence : let us p: '.v :voiitly, and ptaife bis name continually, i t'walk in his laws and ordinances, that we mhave bis eternal love and blefling.Let our meditation be upon Divinity, that crj;eward may be in heaven ; that when mis eariitabernacle of ouis fhall be diflolved, vve mayreceived into the kingdom of glory: let the doof our hearts and fouls hand open, that when oSaviour Jefus knocks, he may be received withjoyful welcome : For which fulnefs of goodneand glory, let it be the defire of fmnei s caruefito entreat odr blefled Lord and Saviour to draus with the cables of Ins love to hirnfeff, and plaus in the bottom of his love, where \vc; fUallmade more than conquerors thro’ ritm that levns, Horn. viii. S3* John xvL 3. Thefe ihinhave 1 Jpoken u,ito you, that in me ye might hapeace. ' In the world ye/hall have affliction 3 but {of pood cheer, I have overcome the world. Joix. 17, 18. 'Therefore doth the Father love n.becanfe ihat I lay down my life to take it up agaiNo man taketh it from me, but. I lay it do wand have power to take it up again. " us ctnandment have I received from my Father.The love of God the Father, the grace of Gthe Son, and the iWeet and comfortable feilothip of God the Holy Ghoft, be with us ah, bonew and for evermore. Amen.F I N I