THESURPRISINGSAVAGE GIRLWHO WASCAUGHT WILD IN THE W0GD8 OfCHAMPAGNE, A PROVINCEIN FRANCE.i Containing a true faithful Narrativa of manyccrieua and interesting particulars respectingthis Wonderful Phenomenon.\ ‘ ' . >» . ., .... •PRINTED BY W. MACNIE,Where is always kept on Sale, a choice and eiteasice Awert-men; of Histories, Songs, Children’s Story Bosks,School Books, &c., Ac. ■«THESAVAGE GIRL.Gkb evening in the month of Septera.ber, 1731, a girl nine or ten years oldjbeing pressed, as it would seem, bythirst, entered about twilight into Songi. a village four or five leagues southof Chalons in Champagne, a province isFrance. She had nothing on her feet,her body was covered with a rags of skinsjiher hair with goured leaf, and her faceand hands were as black as a negro'sShe was armed with a short baton, thickerat one end than the other, very like £club Those who first observed her, tootto their heels, crying out. There is thedevil! And, indeed, her dress and colourmight well suggest this idea to the coun¬try people, and happiest were they whccould soonest secure their doors and win ldows : But cue of them, thinking that theidevil was afraid of dogs, set loose uporher a bull dog with an iron collar. Th«little savag-e seeing him advance in a furykept her ground without flinching, ancgrasping her little club with both handsstretched herself to one side, in order t«give greater scope to ber blow ? perceiving the dog within her reach, she dir 13charged a terrible blow on his head aslaid him dead at her feet. Elated withher victory, she jumped several timesover the dead carcase of the dog. Thenshe tried to open a door, which not be¬ing able to effect, she ran back into thacountry, towards a river, and mountinga tree, fell fast asleep.A French nobleman happened to bel| then, at his country house of Songi, where,, hpving heard various accounts of the|| little savage that had appeared on his! grounds, he gave orders to catch her,Sand particularly to tire shepherd, whohad discovered her first in a vineyard.One of the country people, by a verysimple thought, but which was attributedi to his great knowledge of the mannersand customs of savages, conjecturedthat she was thirsty, and therefore heplaced a pitcherful of water at the foot) of the tree in which she was sitting. She,1 after looking sharply around, to see v/he-ther any body observed her, came down,and went to drink at the pitcher, plung¬ing her chin into the water; but some¬thing having startled her, she regainedthe top o£ the tree before they had limeto apprehend her. This first stratagemhaving failed, the same person again all-\ 4vi^ed to place 3 woman and some chil¬dren near the tree, because savages com-nasnly are not so shy of them as of men :and he bade them, above all, shew her afriendly air, and a smiling countenance.His directions were complied with ; awoman, with a child in her arms, camewalking near the tree, carrying differentsorts of roots and two fishes in her hands,. \Vhich she held out to the savage whodescended a branch or two to be at them,but went back again. The woman stillcontinued her invitation with an affebleand pleasant countenance, accompaniedwith ail the possible signs of friendship,such as laying her hand upon her breast,as if to assure her that she loved her,and would do her no harm ; the savagewas at last emboldened to come downthe tree, and receive the roots and fishes,but the woman then enticing her fromthe tree, by retiiing insensibly, gavetime to the men vvno were lying in waitfor her, to advance and seize her. Shenever mentioned any thing of the griefand anxiety she felt on being taken, norof the efforts she* made to escape j butwe may easily imagine both. The shep¬herd, and the rest who had caught andWrought her to the castle, carried herr-5first into the kitchen, till M. dVEpinoyshould be informed of her arrival. Thefirst thing thfire that appeared- to dratvher attention, was some fowls which thecook was dressing ; at these she flew withsuch amazing agility, that the astonishedj| cook beheld one in her teeth before heimagined she had reached it. M. d’E-pinoy arriving in the mean time, andseeing what she was eating, caused giveher an unskinned rabbit; she instantlystripped off the skin, and devoured it.Those who considei'ed her then, werecf opinion that she was about nine^yearsof age. She seemed black, as I have al¬ready said ; but it appeared, after wash¬ing her several times, that she was na-I turally white, as sh? still continues. Theyobserved likewise, that her fingers, and1 in particular her thumbs, were verylarge, in proportion to the rest of herhand, which was otherwise neat enough ;and to this day, her thumbs, retain some-vrhat of that largeness. By her account,these large strong thumbs were very use¬ful to her during her wild life in thewoods ; for, when she had a mind to passfrom one tree to another, if the branchesof the two trees were imt at a small dis¬tance, and though of co greater thick-6-fress than her finger, she would place herthumbs an a branch of the tree m whichsue happoced to be, and by their mean*spring to the other, just like a squirrel.From this we may judge of the strengthof those thumbs of hers, which were ablein this manner, to sustain the wholev-eight of her body in springing. Shewas committed to the care of the shep¬herd, who dwelt near the castle, and re-eoramended by M. d’Epinoy to his ut¬most care, who promised to reward himhandsomely for his pains. We may wellconceive, that it would require a consi¬derable deal of time, and some hard usag#to wean her from her former habits, andto temper her fierce and savage disposi¬tion ; and there is reason to believe shawas very closely confined in this house,for she found means to make holes inthe walls, and in the tiles of the roof,upon which she would run with as muchwnconcern as upon the ground, neversuffering herself to be retaken withouta great deal of trouble, and passing soartfully through small holes, that theycould scarcely believe their eyes, afterthey had seen her do it. It was thusthat she escaped once, among severalother times, out of this house, iu - most1terete sto?m of frost and snow j on whickv•«casion, after making good her escape,*he betook herself to a tree for shelter.The confusion which the family waithrown into was great, who, after search,ing the house to no purpose, resolved atlast to Icok for her without, where theyfound her perched on the top of a hightree ; from whence, however, they werelucky enough to prevail on her to comedown.I myself have been an eye-witness tosome instances of her ease and swiftness,than which nothing could be more sur¬prising ; and yet what I saw, was butthe remains of her former agility, whichlong sickness, and the want of practicefor many years, had greatly impaired.Without having seen it, it is hardly pos¬sible to imagine her singular and agilemanner of running; even for severalyears after she was caught, she couldovertake the game in the chace.Madamoiselle le Blanc, the name bywhich she is now called, remember*perfectly well her having passed a rive-vtwo or three days before she was taken ;and we shall see by and by, that this isone of the most certain facts of her hi&-tory. She was then accompanied byt8another black girl, a little older thanherself; but whether that was her na-tural colour, or whether she was onlypainted, like le Blanc, is uncertain.—They were swimming across a river, anddiving to catch fishes, when they wereobserved by a gentTeman of that neigh¬bourhood, who, seeing nothing but theirheads, now and then, appearing abovethe water, mistook them, as he says him-seifi for two water cocks, and fired atthem from a good distance.—Luckily,however, he missed them, but the re¬port made them dive and retire fartheroff.The little le Blanc, on her part, had afish in each hand, and an eel in her teeth.After having gutted and washed them,they ate or rather devoured them. Whentheir repast was finished, they directedtheir course into the country, having leftthe river at their back. Soon after, leBlanc perceived a chaplet on the ground,which, no doubt, had been dropt bysome person. Being apprehensive lesther companion should deprive her ofthis little treasure, she stretched out herhand to take it up, upon which the o-ther, with her baton, struck her so severea stroke on the hand, that she lost the9use of it for some time. She had, how¬ever, so much strength left, as witn theweapon in her hand to return the blowon the forehead of her antagonist, withsuch a force as to knock her to the groundscreaming frightfully. The chaplet wasthe reward of her victory, of which shemade herself a bracelet. Touched, inthe mean time, with compassion for hercompanion, whose wound bled verymuch, she ran in search of frogs, andfinding one, stripped off it's skin with hernails, and covered the wound. After thisthey separated, she that was woundedtaking the road towards the river, andthe victorious le Blanc towards ISongi.There is much uncertainty as to whathappened to these two children, previ¬ous to their arriving in Champagne ; leBlanc’s memory, on that head, beingvery indistinct and confused. 1 shall re¬late, however, every particular 1 havebeen able to learn from her, from which1 shall endeavour to form some probableconjectures about her native country,and the adventures that may havebrought her into Champagne. But toreturn to her history.The squeaking cries she uttered thro*her throat were very frightful. The most10terrible of all were uttered by her on theapproach of any unknown person, withan intention to take hold of her, atwhich she discovered a honor that ap¬peared altogether extraordinary. Of thisshe once gave a strong insunce : A man,who had heard of her abhorrence ofbeing touched, resolved nevertheless toembrace her, in spite of the danger thatbe ran, in going too near her. She hadin her hand at the time, a piece of rawbeef, which she was devouring with greatsatisfaction. The instant she saw theman near her, in the attitude of takinghold of her arm, she gave him such aviolent stroke on the face, both with herhand and the piece of fhsh she 1ftId init, that he was so stunned and blinded,as to be scarcely able to keep his feet:the savage, at the same time, believingthe strangers around to be so many ene-ynies, who intended to murder her, or/dreading, perhaps, punishment for whatshe had done, sprung out of their handstowards a window', through which shehad a view of trees ami a river, intend¬ing to jump from it, and so make herescape; which she would certainty havedone, if they hud not again caught heldof her.IIShe appeared particularly fond of fish,either from her natural taste, or fromher acquiring by constant practice, fromher childhood, the faculty of catchingthem in the water with more ease, thanshe could the wild game by speed offoot. She retained this inclination forcatching fish in the water two yearspftei her capture. One day happeningto be brought to the castle of S.ongi, sheno sooner perceived a door open whichled to a large pond, then she immedi¬ately ran and threw bet seif into it, drestas she was, swam round all the sides cfit, and landing on a small island, wentin search of frogs, which she eat at led.sure. This circumstance puts me inmind of a comical adventure which M,le lUane told me hersell.When any company visited M, d'Epi-noy at bongi, he used to send for thegirl, who soon became more tame, andbegan to discover much good humour,and a softness and humanity of disposi¬tion, which the savage life she had Ues-nobliged to follow for seT-preservation,has not been able to vfface. One day,as she was present at a great entertain¬ment in the castle, observing none ofthe delicacies she esteemed, every thing12being cooked, she ran out like light¬ning, and traversing all the ditches andponds, returning with her apron full offrogs, which she spread very liberallyon the plates of all the guests, and wasquite ove;joyed at having found suchgood cheer. We may easily figure toourselves the confusion and bustle thisoccasioned among the guests, every oneendeavouring to avoid or yhrow awaythe frogs, that were hoping all about.The little savage, quite surprized at thesmall value they seemed to set on herdelicate fate, carefully gathered themup, and threw them back again on theplates and table. The same thing hashappened several times in different com¬panies.It was with the utmost difficulty thatthey put her off eatihg raw flesh, and Iby degrees reconciled her to cooked ;vic.uals. The first trials she made toaccustom herself to victuals drest withealt, and to drink wine, <ro>t her herteeth ; which, together with her nails,were preserved as a curiosity. She re¬covered, indeed, a new set of teeth, justlike ours, but hurt her health, winch con¬tinues to be extremely delicate. Therewas but little probability of preserving/*13, her alive, her best state of health beinga sickly langour, which seemed to becarrying her to the grave. A physicianwas sent for to see her, who being ata loss what to prescribe, hinted, that itwas necessary to indulge her now and|: • then with a bit of raw flesh. Accord¬ingly they gave her some, but she couldby that time only chew it, and suck theblood out of it, which relieved her. Itwas with great trouble that she began to,recover, Smd accustom herself to cookedvictuals. She was then placed in a con¬vent at Chalons, where she began toimprove, and be pretty expert in seve¬ral female works, and her education.She had lived several years in that con- *vent, and had applied for permission toassume the veil ; but conceiving a dis¬gust at the. house, and being ashamed tolive with people who had seen her inher wild state immediately after she wascaught, and when'uncivilized, she ob¬tained leave to remove to a convent atSt. MeneholJ. She did not remain longhere, the Duke of Orleans taking herunder his protection, brought her toParis, placed her in the convent of tireNovelles Cathoiinues, in the street of St.Anne, and went thither himself to see' 414and converse with her, that he mightknow what progress she had made inHer education. Being afterwards remov*ed to another convent, still under th*protection of that prince, she fell frona window, and received a violent strokeon the head, occasioned a long disorderwhich attacked her. Her life was des¬paired of, but by the kind assistance other noble patron, she was considerablyreceived. It is impossible to express th«melancholy reflections of this unhappygirl, on being, by the death of the p. inc*,left weak and languishing, without ei¬ther friend or relation to take care of heramong these stangers ; and, at the sametime, in case of her recovering, she fore,saw what neglect, and how cn>ny naor.tifications she must undergo, from per¬sons who had nor prospect of being re-pud their advances on her account.It was in the^e disagreeable circum¬stances that I saw her, the first tiose,in November, ]7Cl2. They hardly weremended when 1c Blanc \\*d recoveredis much strength as to be aide to comeherself to tell me, that the Duke of Or.leans, the inheritor of his father’s vir-tues, had undertaken to pay the ninemonths board that had fallen due XbrI■I N 15her since his father’s death, and that shehad besides some reason to hope to beput on that prince’s list, for a yearlypension.of 200 livres for life; adding,at the same time, that until this'lastpoint should be settled, which could nothappen till the month of January fol*lowing, she had accepted of a smallapartment, which a person had offeredher. But how, says I, do you proposeto , subsist in this apartment ibc twomonths, and perhaps more, in your sick¬ly condition. For what purpose (an¬swered she, with a firmness and confi¬dence that surprised me,) hath Godbrought me from among wild beasts,and made me a Christian ? Not surelyafterwards to abandon and suftVr me toperish for hunger ; that is impossible :I know no other father but him ; hisprovidence will therefore support m«.This ingenuous reply compensates forthe pains 1 have taken to compose thisrelation, which 1 shall conclude withsome of her own observations with re¬gard to the first part of her life.She has no remembrance of her pa¬rents, or any other person, and scarct-ly the country itself, except that theyhad no houses, but boles in the ground.16 'that she freqnetitly mounted trees toavoid wild beasts, and that her countrywas covered with snow j that, when theywere carried away by the ship, mi ac.count of some attempts they made toescape, the two little savages were con¬fined in the hold of the ship ; but thisprecaution had like to have proved fatalboth to them and the ship’s company;ibr here they formed a scheme of scratch¬ing a hole in the ship with tlreir nails,by which they might make their escapeinto their favourite element, the water.The crew, however, luckily discoveredtheir operations, in time to prevent them,and escape shipwreck. This attemptmade them chain the two little savages,so as to put it out of their power to at¬tempt the like again.It appears that after the escape of thesetwo children from the shipwreck, beingthen incapable of any other views thanthose of liberty and self-preservation,they p*rsuea no other rout than chanceand necessity presented. At night ac¬cording to le Blanc, they saw more dis¬tinctly than in the day, (which, how¬ever, must not be unders>ood literally,though her eyes do still retain somewhatof that faculty,) and travelled about-in17search of food. The small game whichthey catched, and the roots of trees, weretheir provisions. The trees were like¬wise their beds, or rather their cradles,for they slept soundly in them, either sit¬ting or riding on seme branch, sufferingthemselves to be rocked by the winds,and exposed to the inclemency of theweather, without any other precaution,than securing themselves with one hand,and using the other by way of pillow.The largest riveis did not stop theirjourney by day or night, for they alwayscrossed them without any dread. Some¬times they entered for the sake of drink¬ing, which they performed by dipping inthei%chin up to the mouth, and suckingthe water like horses, but they most fre¬quently entered the rivers to catch thefish they saw at the bottom, which theybrought on shore, to open, skin, and eatthem.Having hinted to Mademoiselle leBlanc, the difficulty I had to believe itpossible for her to make her way out ofa deep river, in the way she mentioned,without the assistance of her hands andbreath ; she assured me, that withoutsuch assistance she always mounted tothe surface, a very litde breath beinf18efficient for that purpose, having giveiai» example only four year ago. Onthis she shewed me the way, standingipstight, with both arms held straight up,as if holding something above the wa¬ter, having the end ot her handkerchiefbet ween her teeth, like a fish, breathingat the same time softly, but withoutstopping, with each corner of her mouthalternately, as a smoker breathes withone side of her mouth, while he hold*his pipe in the other. In this way, by!e Blanc’s account, she and her compa¬nion passed the Marne in their way toSongi, where she was taken, as abovementioned.In the year 17&5, she was in a poorstate of health, having lost all her ex¬traordinary bodily faculties, and havingnothing of the savage, but a certainwildness in her look, and a’great appe¬tite.The foregoing Narrative was drawn*p under the immediate inspection of M.de la Condemine, a French gentleman,whose curiosity and accuracy, in matters•f this sort, is universally known, andwho had a par.icuiar acquaintance withMademoiselle le Blanc. It bears theplainest marks of truth and authenticity ,19but if »riy doubts remained, the faet*eould be attested by living witnesses.The woman herself was alive in the year1765, when the translator and a Scot*gentleman, then at Paris, had severalconversations with her. To these twogentlemen she related the following par¬ticulars : That she remembered thecountry she came from was very cold,covered with snow a great part of theyear.—That the children there are ac¬customed to the water from the momentof their birth, and learn to swim as soonas to walk.—That they are taught veryearly to climb trees ; and a child of a yeareld there, able to climb a tree.—Thatthe people live in little huts above the, water, like beavers, and subsist chieflyby fishing. She herself was so muchused to water, that when she came to.Prance, she could not live without it, andwas in use to plunge into it over headand ears, and to continue in it, swim¬ming about and diving like an otter orany other amphibious animal.She supposes she was only about seveaI or eight years of age when she *.va» car¬ried away thorn her own country ; yet,by that time, she had learnea to swim,to fish, to shoot with the bow and arrow.solo climb, and to le'tp from one tree toanother, like a squhrel. She was taken,up at sea, where she wa? with other chil¬dren, set in a little round canoe, whichwas covered with a skin, that drew abouther middle like a purse, and preventedthe water from getting in ; for, she says,it is the manner in her country, to putthe children early out to sea, in suchcanoes, in order to accustom them tobear the sea breaking over them, which,though it may overturn the canoe, doesnot sink it. When she was taken up,she was put on board a great ship, carriedto a warm country, and sold ,js a slave ;the person who sold her having firstpainted her black, with a view to makeher pass for a negro.She says further of the country fromwhence she was carried away, that thepeople there had no clothing but skins,and made no use of fire at all, so thatwhen she came to France, she could notbear the fire, and hardly even the closeair of a room, or the breaths of personswho were near her. There were, she•ays, another sort of men in this coun¬try, who were bigger*and stronger thanher people, and ail covered with hair;and these people were at war with her21j people, and used to eat them when theycould catch them.In the hot country to which she wasfirst carried, she says she was re-em¬barked, and performed a very lon£ voy¬age,, during which, the master, to whomshe. had been sold, wanted to make herwork, particularly, at a sort of needle¬work ; he beat her, but her mistress,who she things spoke French, was verykind to her. That the ship having beenI wrecked, the crew took to the boat; butshe, and a negro girl that was on board,were left to shift for themselves. Thenegro girl, he says, could not swirn sowell as she, hut she kept herself abovewater, by taking hold of le Blanc's foot,and in this way they both got on shore.They then traversed a great track ofcountry, commonly travelling all night,and sleeping in the day time on the topsof trees. They subsisted upon the rootswhich she dug out of the ground withher fingers, and particularly her thumb,which by this, and by the use she madeof it in climbing, and leaping from onetree to another, was much larger thanthe thumbs of otler people. Ihey alsocatched as much game as they could,Which they eat raW with the warm blopd22it» it, in the same manner as a hawk orwild beast does ; and she remembers par-ticulurly, that they killed a fox, of whichthey only sucked the blood, finding theflesh very disagreeable.She had, when she was caught at Songi,the bludgeon above mentioned, whichshe wore in a pouch by her side ; and, be¬sides, she had 3 longer stick, with threepieces of iron at the end of it, one in themiddle sharp an«l pointed, and the othertwo upon the sides hooked ; and the usemade of it, was to stab any wild beastthat attacked her, with the sharp point:and with the hooks she assisted herself inclimbing trees, by catching hold of thebranches; end she says it was particu¬larly useful to her, in defending heragainst the bears, when they attemptedto follow her up the trees. This weapon,•he says, she brought with her from thehot country, but the other from her own.From the above particulars, which 1learnt from her own mouth, I think Iam able to fix with some certainty uponthe country of which she is a native. Shehas been supposed to be of the Esqui¬maux nation ; but there is sufficientproof to refute this notion, for she is ofa fJr complexion, a smooth skin, and23feature* as soft; as those of an Europe*#.Whereas the people of the Esquimauxnation, are, by the accounts of all tea¬sellers, the ugliest of men, of the harshestand mest disagreeable features, and allcovered with hair. She is certainly notmistaken in the situation of the countrywhich she gives, for it is certainly a verycold country, and the people which thedescribes as living in the neighbourhoodof her nation, can be no other than theEsquimaux ; and when we add to this,what travellers tell us of a certain raceof people, who are fair, of smooth skills,and soft feature*, .living in the countryof Labrador, upon the east side of Hud-,son’s Bay, in the neighbourhood of theEsquimaux; we can hardly doubt butthat Mademoiselle le Blanc is one of thatrace of people, and that her native coun¬try is the coast of Hudson’s Bay, con¬siderably to the north of Nova Scotia,the principal of the British settlementsin North America.Extract jrem the Baptism Register qf theParish Church of St. Su/plice, qf thetown oJ Calons, in Champagne./*\The 16th day of June, in the year17S2, was bapthwd by me, after sub-24.scribing Priest, Canon-Regular, Prior,Curate of St. Sulplice of Chalons, inChampagne, Marie Angelique Memtnie,aged about eleven jears, whose parentsare unknown, even to t^e girl herself,who lias been either barn in, or trans¬ported when very 3 oung, to some islandin America, from whence, by the dispo¬sition of a merciful providence, havinglanded in Fiance, and being still con¬ducted by the same goodness of God,into this diocese, has been, at last, placedunder the patronage of our illustriousBishop, in the flospital General of St.Mour, into which she entered the 30lhof October last, her good-father beingM. Memmie le Moin procurator of thesaid hospital; and her god-rnother Da-moiselie Marie-Nicola d’Halle, gover¬ness of the same hospital of St. Maur,who have attested the day and year asabove. (So signed) Memmie le Moine,D’ Halie.—F. Ccuterot, Chanoinereg,Prieur, Cure.I, after-subscribing priest, canon-re-gular, curate of St. Sulplicc do certifythe present extract t» be agreeable toits original. Delivered at Chalons, thisfirst of October, 1750.—(Signed,)D. SA1S, Prieur, Cure.FINIS.