^r/t.■RRY anu ENTERTAININGHISTORYKINGAND THEC O B L E RIV TJVO P 4K. TS.EDINBURGH.5 NTED BY J, ROBERTSON, N0.3O NICHOLSONSTREET.18 11. ''i HEBISTORTOF THEKING AND THE COBIJSR.IT was the cuftom of King Kentjr VIII. to w>lk l3*ein the night into the city, difguifed, toobferve andake notice how the coniUbles and watchmen performedi heir duty, not only in guarding the city gates, b»t slfoill diligently watching the inward parts of the city, fomat they might, in a great meaiure, prevent thofe dillur-ijl>ances and caihaities which too often happen in greatInd pop tious cities in the night; and this he did often-limes without the leaft difeovery who he was, returningipme to vVhitehall in the morning.I Now, in his return home through the Strand, he tooki.'otice of a certain cobler who was conftantly up at workl|rhilHing ami finging every morning The Sving was re¬vived to ee him and be acquainted with him : In orderi(« which, he immediately knocks off the heel of his fhoe byHitting it-again(1 a itime ; and having done fo. he boun-,ed at the Cobler’s itall.i! Who’s there ? cries the cobler.\ Here’s one, faid the King.I With that the coblcr opened the ftall door, and theiking alk,ed him if he could fet on the heel on one of hist iocs.i Yes, that I can, fays the cobler. Come in, hone-t) How, and fet thee down by me, and I wi'l do it for;j lee ftraight; the cobler feraptng his awls and old (hoeso one fide, to make ro^m faf the King to fit do rn by|iin.The Kkig being hardly able to forbear laughing at theiiadnefs.of tbe cobler, afked him if tl*.ere an boufdbard bjr tbat sold a cup of good ale, and the people werejjBJP' . ■Yes, said the cobletf,. there is an Inn over the way, rwhere I believe the folks are Up, for the carriers go from tthence very early hr the morning.Wh! ^ it the Ring bOrrov/rd an old flioe of the cob«ler, and’.vent over to the inn, deQting“the coblfr wculdtbring- his fhoe to him thither, fo foon «s he had put the1heel on again. The cobler prcmifed he would ; fo mah-iag whEthafle he couldlo put on the heel, hr carries itto the King, Ihying,Honeft bladi, here is thy fhae again j asd I warrantthee it will not coma off again in hafte.* Very well, faid the- Ring, what muS thouhave for thypajuf 1A couple of pence, replied the cotier.Wei), faid the Risig, feeing thoa art ail h#ne!l menylitlov/, here is a teller for thee. Come, nt down by me, Jwill drink a full pot with thee. Come here’s a good .hrahh to the King.With all my heart, laid- the cobler. I’ll fledge rhee iWere it in wat/r.So the cofclcr fat down by the Ku:g, and was very mersry, *nd drank of his liquor yery freely, and likcwfle fung ifotnc of his merry fongs and catches, whereat the King;laughed heartily, and ivas very jocund and pleafarit withthe cobler, telling him withal that his name was Harr#Tudors he belonged to the court, and if he wouldcome and fee him there he would be very welcome, be‘ r•is.ufe He was a merry companion, n^u charged him not tilforget his name, and to affc any one for him about thi :ejcr :, and they would foun bring him to him; io, fai^ tthe Xiog, L am very wdl known thereNo t the cobler little dreamed that ::-j e, the Kin^wliici, fyeke ta Him-, much lei’s that the King’s uatne was%C * )iiHwejr Tudor) therefore, with a great deal ©fcortfidence,i he (lands up, and palls off Ms hat, makes two or threei forapes with his foot, and gives the King many thanks)also telling him, that he was one of the honefteft men hen ever met with in all bis lifetime ; and, although he hadi never been at Court, yet it (hoold not be long before he1 would make a holliday to come and fee him.Whereupon the King paying for what they had drank,would hare taken his leave of the cobler, who not beingi willing to part with him, took hold of his hand and faid,N by nay faith you mull not go •, you (hall firft go and feei my poor habitation j I have there a tub O? good brownn ale, that was nerer tapped yet, and you muft go and taftejil it, for you are the honefteft blade I ever met withal, and1 love an honeft merry companion with all my heart.SO the cobler took the King with him over the v^ay,where he had his cellar adjoining to the flail whichwas handfomely and neatly fmn'ilhed for a man of hisprofeflion. Into this cellar he had the Kiag) there faidhe, fit down, you are very welcome ; but I mull defife youto fpcak foftly for fear of awakening my wife Joan, wholies here hard by , (fhowing the King a clofe bed madeup at one corner of the cellar much like a closet,) for iffhe fitouId awake, Khe would make our ears ring again.At which fpeech of the coblev’s the King laughed, andtold the cobler he would be mindful to follow his direc-fiions*Whereupon the cobltr kindled op a fire, and fetchedout a brown loaf from which he cut a lufly toafl, whichhe fet a baking at the fire : then he brought out hisChefhire cheefc; eamc, faid be, will you eat any of myChe (hi re cheefe ? There is as gov- fellowflup in eating asthere is in drinking ; which made the King admire theC-H A P. II.( )Hoheft freedom of tf e cobler. So, having eatenabit^thr cobler began a health, to all true hearts and merrycompanions: At which the kingfoniled, faying, friendI’ll pledge thee.In this manner they ate and drank together till it wasalraoll break of day; the cobler being very free withhis liquor, and delighted the King with several of his olditories, insomuch that he was highly pleafed with themanner of his entertainment’, when, on a hidden, the ccfc-ler’s wife Joan began to wake. I’fa'th, fays the cobler,you mull be gone; my wife Joan begins to giumblc, Ihe'llawake prefently, aod I would not for half the (hoes in myfliop Hie (hould find you here.CAAP. IllOW as foon as the King came home ‘.e fent out or--1 ders about the court, that if enquired for himby the name of Harry Tudor, they fhculd immediatelybring the person before him, whatever he was, withoutany further examination of him.The cobler thought every day a month, till he hadbeen at court, to fee his new acquaintance, and wastroubled how he (hou'd get leave of his wife Joan, for hecould not get without her knowledge, by reafon he didrefolve to make himfclf as fine a? he could, for-his wife»!w*y<= kept the keys of bis boiliday clothes. Vv hereup¬on, one evening as they fat at fupper, finding her in a very!,ood humour, he began to lay open his mind to her, tel¬ling her the whole ftory of their acquaintance, repeatingit over and ovch-again, that he was the honefteft fellowhe ever met withal. Hufband, quoth (lie, becaufe youhave been fo ingenuous as to tell me the whole truth, Iwill jci e you leave to make a Holliday for this once ;you fl all go to court, -nd I will make you as fine as I can( 1 )So it was agreed that he ftiould go to court next day ;f whereupon Joan rofe betimes next morning, to bru(h upher hutband's holiday clothes, and make him as fnug:as Ihe could. She waflied and ironed the lace band,and made his dices ftiinc that he might fee his face inthem. Having done this (lie made him rife, and pullof his fhirt; then Ihe washed him with warm water, froniil ,head to four, putting on him a clean fliirt: AfterwardsHie drefled him in his holiday clothes, pinning his lacedband in the prim.CHAP. IV.THE cooler being thus fet forth, he ft ruled throughthe ftrects like'a crow in a gutter, thinking himfelf| the bell of them all.In this manner he came to court, flaring at this bodyand that body, as he walked up and down, and not know-I ing who to aflcfor Harry Tudor. At laft he efpied one,)i as he thought, in the habit of a ferving man, to whom he,11 made his address, faying,Doft thou hear, honed fellow 5 do you know one Har-i|i **y Tudor who belongs to this court.Yes, faid the man, follow me and I will bring you t« *1 him.With that he had him prefently up into theguard cham-1|, her, telling one of the yeomen of the guards there wasiy om who enquired for Harry Tudor.I . I know him very well, replied the yeoman: if youj please to go along with me, I’ll bring you to him imme-diatc^y; So the eohler followed the yeoman, admiring' verymuch the prodigious finery of the rooms which he carri¬ed him through. He thought within himself that theyeo i an was mistaken in the person whom he enquired| for} for, faid he, he whom 1 look for it a plain merry fel.t -8 )iow ) iiis name is Harry Tudor, Wo draftk two pots to¬gether not long fince; I fuppose he'tnay belong to-'fofteLord' or another about the court.I tell you friend, faid :the yeoman, I know him very•well; do you but follo\V me, and 1 lhall bring you to himftraight.So going-forward, he came to the room where the Kingwas accompanied with feveral of^hk nobles who attended Jhim.As foon as the yeoman had put by the orras, he spoke 1aloud, may it pleafe your Majefty here is one who en- jquires for Harry Tudor.The cobler hearing this, thought he had committed no jkfs than treason, therefore he up with his heels and ran jfor it; but not being acquainted with thefeveral turnings Iand rooms through which he came, he was foon orer- Itaken, and'brcught before the'King, whom the cobler Ilittle thought to be-the perfon whom he enquired for: 'I‘Therefore in a trembling condition he fell down on his Iknees, faying,May it pleafe your grace, may it pleafe your highnefi, II am a poor cpbler,'and enquire* for one Harry Tudor, Iwho is a very honest fellow ; 1 mended the heel of his Ifhoe not long fince, for which he paid me nobly, and gave lme two pots to boot. But 1 had him afterwards go to jmy cellar, where we drank a cun of nappy ale and werevery merry, till my wife Joan began to grumble, which kput an ebd to our merriment for thar time ; but I told |him I would come to court and fee him, as foon as I con- |veniently could.Well, fald the King, don’t be troubled ; do you knowthis honeft fellow again if you faw him.The cobler replied, yes, that I do from a thoufand.Then, foid the King ft and up, and be not afraid but ^look well'about you, perairroturc you may-find thefel- >}low in this companyC 9 )If Wiicrcupon tlie c«blcr rofc up, and'laoked wishful/, pon the E and the reft of the nobles, but it was tq tit*;>le or no purpofe ; for though He faw fotnething in theiiking’s face which he thought he had seen before, yet litlould netter imagine him to be Harry Tudor, whofe hectf his fltoe he had mended, and who had been fo merryi ith him at the inn, and at his own cellar.He therefore told the King he did not expect to find•.Tarry. Tutior among fuefi fine folks as he faw there,f Lit that the per for. he looked' for was a plain heneft', andjae hearted fellow: Adding withal that he was hirelat did Harry Tudor but know that lie was at courvbei.i ould make him very welcome j for fays thecohl'er, whenjjjft parted, he charged the to come to court and fee him,;jlhlch I promilid 1 would, and accordingly have made %n.iibliday cn purpofe to come and lee him.'I At wh ch fpeech. of the cobler's the King Had muchdo to forbear laghing outright j but keeping hi: co:U/le-:iance as fteady. as he could before the cebler, he fpakel:l> the yeoman of the guards!;:l Here faid he, take the honed cobier down sn'td my eet-ley and let him dtink my good health ; I will give ouUr*fiat Harry Tudor fhall come to him piefently.I So away they went, the cobler being fit to leap outEl f his fltin for joy, not only because be had come fo welljjff, but that he Ihould fee His good friend Harry Tudor.CHAP. V.' T''HE cobler had not been long in the King’s cellar,JL before the King came to him, in the fame habit: '.at he had on « hen he mended his (hoc, whereupon the'nobler knew him immediately, and ran and killed Him,! Jy5ng.Honeft Harry, 1 have made a holiday on puipofe to| ee you j but I bad much ado to get lea-ve of my wife( 10 )woo was toatli that I fnould lofe fo much tirati tu.a aiy work. •, but I was refolvcd to fee you. and there¬fore I made my felt as Coe as I could But I’F. tell thee,Harry, when I came to court, I wa« in a peck of trau-blea how to hnd you out 5 but at lad 1 met wiuh a manwho told we li: knew you very well, and he would bringme to you y but ir.ilead of fo doin he brought me hfore the Ifiug, which had altatul frightened me outmy feveu fenfes; But in gooJ faith, added the cobler, Iuni refolved to be merry with you, Cnee i have had thegood fortune to meet with you at lafl.Ay, that you,fha:l, replied the King; we fliall be asmerry as princes.With that he called for a large glafs of wine, anddrank to the cobler, the King’s good health.Good a mercy, faid the cbbler, honeft Harry, I’llpledge that health with all my heart.Now, after the coblcr had drank about four or fivegood healths, he began to be merry, and fell a finginghis old fong* anf catches, which pleafed the King verymuch, and made him laugh heartily.When, on a fudden, feverel of the nobles came intothe cellar, estiaordinary rich in apparel, who all Hooduncovered before Hany Tudor, which put the cobler in¬to an amazement at fiyft; but prefeutly recovering him-fclf, he looked more wi ft fully upon Harry Tudor, andfoon knowing him to be the King, whom he knew in theprefence chamber, though in another habit, he immedi¬ately fell on his knees, faying,‘ May it plcafe your Grace, may it pleafe your High*‘ nefs, I am an honed poor cobler, and means no harm.*No, r*o, faid the King, and fhali receive none here, Iallure you.He commanded him therefore to rife up, and be atmerry ai he was b fore; and though he knew him to bethe King, ye; be fiiould cfc the fumf /refdom with himC “ )lie had done before, when he mended the heel of hisshoe.This kind fpeech of the King’s, and three or fourpiaffes of wine, made the cobler to be in as good humour|*s he was before, telling the King feveral of his prettyllories, and finging fome of his beft fongs, very much t®he fatisfaflion of the King and ail his nobles.' THE COBLER's SONG IN THE KING's CELLAR,COME let us drink the other pot,.Our furrows to confound }We'll laugh and ling before the King,So let his health go round :For I am as bold as bold can be,No cobler e’er was ruder;Then here, good fellow, here’s to thee,Rememb’ring Harry Tudor.When I’m at work within my flail,Upon him I (hall think jHis kindnefs I to mind (hall call,Whene’er I eat or drink :His kindnefs was to me f> great.And fo (hall my wife Joan,II’ll laugh when I fit in my flail,And merrily will fing,That I, with poor Ipft and awl.Am fellow to the King,And if is more, I muft confefs,Than I at firft did know ;But Harry Tudor, ne’erthelefs,Refolves it (hall be fo,| And now farewell unto Whitehall,I homeward muft retire,j To (5ng and whifile in myftall,My Joan will ms defireC ™ )I wonder that how (lie will lau^h,When she hears of this thing,That he who drank her nut-brown ale,Was England’s royal King.CHAP IV.NOW the King conSdeitng the plesfant humour ei Itbe-cobler, how -innocently merry he was, and freeJlfrom any defigns j that he warh'a perfon who labourec] I▼cry hard, and took a great deal of pains for a fmall Hre-JiKhood, was pleafed, out of his princely grace and favour, jlto allow hini"a liberal annuity of forty merks a year, fo*]lthe better fupport of his jolly humour, and the mainte-jisance of his wife Joan ; and that he ihould be admittedjione of his courtiers, and that he might have the libertwiiof his cellar whenever he pleafed; which being fo faiji!beyond expe&ation, did highly exalt the cobier’s ho,#mour, much to the fatis'fa&ion of the King.So, after a great many bows and fcrapes, he returnepllfihome to his wife Joan, whh the joyful news of his reception at court, which fo well pleafed her, that ihe die Inot think much of the great pains (he had taken in deed'rfeting him up for the journey. ■P yf R T 11.CHAP. I.CT HRISTOPHER CRISPIN, for fo was the eebliA called, with whom King Henry YlII. had madiWhimfelf fo exceedingly familiar ; the coblex, I fay, ha*)!ing been at court, where he made much mirth and waifmuch made uf for the mirth and merriment which htjfmade, returning home in the afternoon, full freighterwith wine, and likewife wonderful expectations; his Healand head being light, lie went capering along, .flinging uv}r *3 )fi hw cap, crying, long live Harry Tudor, long live Harry'll Tudor, with a hundred boys at his'heels, whooping andf i halooing. His wife Handing at the door, and feeing himi pranceing along in fuch a hair-brained pollute, flic imrae-; i diately put on one of her accuftomed crabbed lochs, cry-: I iftg out, hoity toity, what’s come of you now? 1*11 Harryi I Tudor you, with a vengeance! Was it for this I dreffedi you up in plinablico., in all your befl. apparel, to hare you‘ , come home like one juft out of bedlam.Peace wife, quoth the cobler, for I am upon my pre-i.i ferment.) I am promifed to be made a courtier, that 1j am.A courtier! quoth Joan $ Adsfcot! more like a cucfc-) old, drunken fcoundrel.Nay, you beft know that, ’tis from you I mnft HaveM that favour if it be conferred upon me.Ccafe your prating, quoth Joan, and get you to bed,ul that you may rife in the morniag, and fall to your bufi-li| icfs, fo; this courie of life will never do. With thefe,(ii and the like reprimands, ike conquers poor Crifpin, wh*«' for quietnefs fake, forthwith went to bed, where we willS leave him to take his reft. Let us now return to court,end fay fpmething of what paffed between the King,!„ Queen, andNobles, relating that day’soomical adventure.CHAT. II.' "VTOW h istohe noted, that thecdbler was no former, i w gone, but the King with bis Nobles, began to re-n new their mirth, upon their rehearfing the many comical■l! fancies and pleafant pranks with which the cobler hadt entertained them j and that which added the more totheir recreation and fport was, a certain Lord, who putt himfelf into a country habit, and imitated the cobler foTij to the life, that the King and the reft of the nobles fell:j into a hearty fit of laughter, wK’sb la'fted a confiderabk( *4 )tlci*, wh'.iout intermiflion, whereupon the Queen, withher maids of honour, came to enquire the caufe of fuchgeneral mirth.My 'eige, faid the Queen, I am glad to hear you and iyour Nobles fo merry, and would be glad to know whatfancies have been the occafion of fo much laughter?My lady, quoth the King, we have had the company {of a comical ccbler, the like of whom 1 think nevercame here to court fince theconqueftj for his downrighthoned fimplicity has afforded us much pal'.ime.Then, faid the Queen, I wifli I had been here, to ihave been a partaker of this mirth. Then, the King re¬plied, it may not be too late as yet; for 1 fhall contrive, sthe very firtl opportunity, to give you a fight of him un¬der fome difguife, by which wc will have new proofs ofthe of the pleafant paftime.But then, faid the proud prelate, Cardidal Woolfey,how do thefe frolics agree with your kingly dignity -What will your friends and allies fay, when they (hallhear how you converfe and.take pleafure in the companyof a cobler ? Why, faid the King, Woolfey, have yougot heard, how the indufirious bee extra&ed honey aswell from the meane I flowers as the richefl bloffoms ?And, if fo, why may I not experience the felicity of mypeople, by converfing with a poor cobler, as well as I mayfrom the crafty policy of a proud cardinal.This choke-pear ftoped the mouth of cardinal Wool- Jfey, while .the King, Queen, and Nobles pursued theirmirth, to the height of their fatisfaclion.CHAP. III.YOU may remember how the cobler, at his returnhome from the court, in a frolickfome manner, wasfummoned to bed by the flrift order of old Joan, his ;sommanding wife, where he Dept fecure till towards( *5 )LLorniug, at which time (he awakened him with a thun-lier clap. Thou drunken fwine, and whimfical woodcock,Ms it not time to rife ? is this the courfe of life you in*end to lead ?—At which words the p6or cobler awak¬ened •, and that he might get out of the hearing of this■ Inorning ledhire, he jumps out of bed, puts on his clothesind his confiJering cap, and fo paffzd away to hy flail,■ shete he fell to work upon b.s (hoes and boots, as fierces fury, and as blythe as;a bird in the returning fpring,j leafing his fancy with a fong (of his own making), as;bllows:^ THE C03LER's SONG IN HIS STJL L. •rT^H’0 now I fit within tny (lall,1 Old (hoes and dippers mending,I to the court (hall have a call,There is my hope depending.I do not value truly Joan,Tho’ once in tears 1 woo’d her;1 have the favour his well ki own,j; Of honeft Harry Tudor.He gave me forty mciks in gold,Which is a deal of treafure ;Ilefides all this there is no f arj Of having courtly pleafure.1 wiflt old Joan flit would die,1 Tiro’ once in tears 1 woo’d lur,j Td go to court, and there li.e by 'My honeft Harry Tudor.* Now whillt the ccbler was making himfclf aieirv vri higing hjs new made fong, Joan fuddenly chopped uponno, and^hearing hira mention the name of Tudor, fa-Stute-. him in this manner :Out you drunken fcoundrel, v.hat! are you going toduring it again ? I though: ycu hud gat enough <ythat veflxrday j cotne into, brcakfaft, you blockhead, jlWith that he inimedhely follows herv like * patient |Jfman, while flie continued fcolding in this manner I need |inot* quoth fiic* aik you whether or not you met with your Jjpot companion j. for I think you gave me a full proofthat you did, by the drunken condition, you came home tin. I tliinkyou told rae he was focaethiag of a courtier,but I.rather think him to be feme carman or porter.Pray where is the money that you carried out with you ?You had fourpence halfpenny of me : that I let you haveout of rjy pocket, becaufe I would have you appear likea man j and befides what you took of Jobfon, the oldjoiner, and likewife of Sin on Soucecrowrt the sadler,for two pair of heel-pieces ; and of this money, pray letme fee what you have left ?Alas ! faid the cobler, my friend was Ut far from let¬ting me fpend any thing, that he has gjven me whatm?y be the making of you and I.Why, Hulhand, ,;uoth Joan, what hat he given youWhy, to tell you the truth, my fweet wife, he ha*/cttled forty merks a-year upon me ; and, as » fure tokenof his goodneh, he has given mi (htfe two broad pieces•f gold.Oh me! quoth Joan, did your friend give you.all this?-Well, God’s bleffihg on his loving heart, he is an honeftfellow, I’ll warrant him.Who do you call fellow ? quoth her hudband, he thatis fo particular a friend of mine, is no worfe perfon than'eur gracious King Henry; and was he to know what you?have faid of him and me, you may happen to dine on thefruit of your hempfeed ; by which means I might be rid.iof a Ihrew.Sweet hufband, quoth Joan, pardon what 1 ve faid.through ray ignorance, and never devulge my unfortun¬ate faying*, as you love me, and I will never ftold, norcall thoi' ratnes for thetfuture, during life.{ *1 )1 ®e fure, faoth he, to keep jrour promifc, and I'flmlflare you tVwt aH-fliall be weH.C H A P. IV.'O' TNG HENRY, as you have heard,liariflg prothifed. it\.the Queen that (he ihould be accomodated with fom'ek" the cqbler’s fegaries, now his care was how to performid make good his promife ; that i* to Fay, how he might: ring hrmfelf into the c<bbler’s company without the cob*i jrknowing who he was. Many thoughts came into hi«!?ad, but among the reft, one he refolves upon, which> this: The King fends man and horfe down into theiiuuntry, there to buy leather fit for (hoe-makers, and to; Ind it to London with the carrier, who came to the famen that was over again ft the aforefaid cobler.! This being accordingly done, the King, in the habit Of||pbmi countryman, came to the inn with the Queen, whoisthe drefs of an innocent country maiden, pafled for hisftiiswoman : he pafled for the tanner that had come to re.:nive and fell the leather. The King having paid thesirrier for bringing the parcel1; calls for a room and femeikthe beft liquor the-houfe afforded which being brought,Si alked the keeper, whether or no he could help him'| a chapman for his leather : who answered, herean honest fellow, a cobler over the way. I’ll fend forSn; he’ll either buy ity or help you to a cuftomertfr it.nPrithee fend for him, faid the King.llj|Whereupon the cobler was called, who came caperingtie a Morice dancer, faying who wants me.11A gentleman faid the inn keeper, has a parcel of leathertfell.ll’ll buy it, quoth the cobler, if it be for my turn. Nowjfering looked over it, he a(kcd the price, jjie King, notiUwing what it was worth, alked him forty (hillings-.quoth the King, I ant think titell you it is worth much more.That’s neither here nor theret tfor felling off: which, when I fiave done, 1 dontdeal in leather for the future j I am for a place at court;and this young maid, my kinsw'oman, is likewife defireouito wait on fome lady.Marry, quoth the cobler, if it he fo, perhaps I may d'you a piece of fervice, foT as limple as 1 fit hc:e j thoughI fay fo myself, f am very well acquainted with the Kingand, as you feem both to have good honeft faces, I prnteli.1 will do you all the good l can, that I will, and there Sray hand on the fame.Thou fayed well, quoth the King, and if theu doft na kindnef*, i do not matter if I give thee the leather:a reward for thy goodnefs} and fo here’s to thee.I thank thee, quoth the cobler: and by the time |had drank three or fourcaroufes his heart grew light athe told the King he would fing him a fong of his cimaking; ,;t which the Queen, when Ihe heard it, laughsheartiiy ; for he had many jokes and pleafant fangs : tdelighted the Queen more than any thing flic had seeiror met with in her life.At length it drew towards noon ; the cobler was f?.going with them towards the ccfurt, but he muft drehimfelf, for he would not appear bef re the K:ng in hicobier’s clothes for all the flioes in his Ihop.CHAP. V.cobler being gone, the King turned hirr.felftA the Queen faying, how do you like the converfaticof this comical Crifpin ?The Queen faid, right well; befides I fee there is fotilthing of principle in him, which, in mv judgement, feeirC *9 )to outdiine his poverty: for, my leige, when you offeredthe leather to him at a low price, he let you know it wasWorth much more, arid therefore was loath to meddlewith it, fearing you came not honeftly by it. And what'4. obferve more in him i?, that he has a light heart, briik,und merry ; and, for ought 1 know, he enjoys roorecom-iort in hiscoarfe and homely cottage, than a colonel or! courtier, with all their accoit)plilhrr.ents.Not fo much of that, replied the King ; I very well re-i aemter, that when he had me down in his lower cellar,jaa drink a cup of his nappy ale, and eat four e of his bread!nd cheefe, all on a Hidden bis wife Joan began to roufe:ut of her night’s reft, and I found he began to be afraiditf her, for he faid, friend, you muft begone j I would not(hat Joan my wife fivould catch you here, no not for all themats in my (hop. And thereupon rather than the cobleruiould be cudgeled by his wife, I got away with all theliireed I could.l;My liege, quoth the Queen, you were hard put to it.i In troth, quoth the King, fo I was!I Then, with a futile her MEjcftY fatd, Iwculd willinglylie her.iij She (hall be Cent for, faid the King; and thereupon he|Ued for the inn keeper, to know w hat he could let them> ve for dinner, W ho told him, they had a (houlder q£jlltton, which would be ready in half an hour.ilTiiat will do, faid the King; and therefore, pray callI: cobler and his wife, for JL deGre they may both dinetb me.The inn-keeper having delivered bis rneffage, Joan fetrailing, faying, what fot is this that hath lent for youiw ? I shall have you.drunk again, that I lhall.i^lMiy, quoth the cobler, did you not tell u:e the othery that you would never fcold at me again, if I would1 it keep your tounftl j and do you begin already ! go( M )pat on four beft red petticoat and walftcoat, w-W-lft Idrefs myfcl/, for I do not khow but we may take a wallsto tourt after dinner, and it would be for your credit toil |appear before the King in your beft apparel. Now Joaft Ibavirvg a fort of fear upon her for what ihe had formerly 1faid, doubting that he might out with all, poor creatuti |foe was fain to bridle her unruly tongue, and turn hescrabbed frowns into fweetOnd pleafant fmiles j and withobedience to her hufoand, (he made herfelf as fine at ;London milk-maid upon n May day : and Crifpin likewiffcbruflred up bis beard and then Went over with Joan, npert as a pear-monger.The King, taking his gift's, drank to the cobler**wife; who fimpering like a firmity kettle, laid, I thankyou, fir.Then pafling the glafs to her hufband, he filled up «bumper and drank to the Queen, with this complimentyoung woman, you are welcome to London, and 1 don*'queflion but I may help; you to a fervice that may be teyour heart’s content.Now by the time the glafs had gone round, the roai!was ready and fet before them ; the cobler craved leav* <•to fay the grace, which was (hurt, and when ended, thKing carved for himfelf and the Queen, and bid the cobler and his wife do the like.Quoth Joart, 1 know my hufoand is for the cuckold1'bit, and fo here itis,fo let him have it.At which faying, the Kmg and Queen fmiled. He!Majefty being much more pleafcd with the mirth tha‘the meat, fed but fpar«ng!y, at which the cobier mvrril .laid, ycuag woman, if you come to dine w ith the fn vanlof a nobleman s family^adlug*, you rhuft lay about yoibetter than you do, or they will loan make you as fat sa hen in the forehead.With this, and the like dHeourte they palled awayti;2<i for an hour, and thtn th" King and Queen withdicC *i )llJh'tt? another room, there to eonfult aboat Snifliiog theijCoaritai adrentare.CHAP. VI.t j it jj t« be noted that the King ha^ told the fe-. IJL N eretary of ftate, that he would fend ht» royal fignetito him wrapped up,by a raefi%nger whom He Ihould fecurein order for him to give an account’, upon examination,how He came by it \\ herefore he prefently caHs tor pen,i jink and paper, and writes the letter, iditbin which he in-: jelofed the fignetaforefaid, and having directed the letter,ihe defired the cooler to carry it, who war very ready totiiferve him. Now'Joan was refolved to go with him, and:iiidid,. becaufe flic would keep him from being drunk.: Now they weie no fooner gone, bet the King called for!! tlie reckoning and paid for it. He and hirj^jueen wentjilprivately by water to their palace, where they palled off(ctheir dilguife, aud appeared in their royal ar^ irel; thei iKing with hi* nobles, and the Queen with her maid* ofhonour. Now, by this time, the cobber and hi* wife de-4lfive;el the letter, to the fecretary, who upon opening thei fame, feeming to frartle, and with a frowning countenance1 faic!, behold here is the King’s fignet. How came youby it:'i Why, fays the cobler, I had the letter, and what wasin rt I know not, only 1 bad it from a tanner.- The fecretary replied, if you do not find the tannerI out, take my word for it, we (hall make ah example of< you.Why tfuoth Joan, you won’t hang my huftand, willyou ? ...Quoth the fecretary, ftwill go hard with him, if he don’tfind the tanner.HI go fetch him, <poth Joan.But cOming to the inn and finding the UrmeV-gene.( )poor Joan fell into a violent fit of tantrirn*. tearing herhair, wringing her hands, crying, what will become of mypoor cobier ? be will be bang’d.For what ? faid the inn-keeper.But Joan had not patience to tell him her lamentation,crying, O the tanner ! O the tanner is gone, and in this !condition raving like a fury, or like a lunatic perfonbroken oat of bedlam, Ihe ran back to Wellminfter, witha mulcitude of men, women, and children, after her, whoWHined to knew the caufe : but Jo-m continued crying,O the tanner is goae ! and my poor Crifnin, what will be*con^eofth^e,Which words her hulband hapened to hear, juft as fiieeniered the door, any cried, dear Joan, nave you broughtthem with you ?With me, rjuoth joaii, no, no, they are gone, and youare left alone to fuftex. Now h d it n t been better towork than to follow every one that fends for you ? nowyou may fee what you have brought yqurfelf to. No¬thing would ferve you, it feems, the other day, but to bea courtier, fuch was your ambition : but let me tell you,if they have a fancy to hang you, thou I may fiiy, youhave made a fine piece of work on’t ; I can’t but thinkhow like a courtier you are now. But while (lie was in- jIhlting over poor Crifpin. the King was informed of all ‘thei^ tranfac:ions, and therefore.fent that they might be ibrought before him, which was done accordingly j but a»the colder approached in the prefence of the King, c» ryjoint about him trembled, for he expected to find no fa-5vo if. The King, with an angry countenance, faid, howcame you by my fignet’’Tne poor cobler, falling on his knees, and wringing.Lis hands, cried, may it pleafe your grace, may it plea eyour honour, I had it fom a tanner, who font for me tothe Bell, in the firaiwl, to bu) a parcel of leather he hadbrought out of tL. cot’.nUj. The King replied, this is *( *3 ); ^fetfantRrd well conne&cd (lory, bet if you don’t pro-i duce tht* tanner, I’ll leave jrcu to the iarr, and if yos! be hanged by the law, yv-u tnuft take it for j^our pa'ns,j Joan hearing the King talk of hanging cried, good fir,i King, don’t hang my poor Crifpin } he is an honed man,i and has but one fault. V hat is that ? quoth the King;I he will not be ruled by his wife, quoth Joan. He (hall! die, faid the King, but ! will allow him to chufe his owni death. Why, quoth the cobler, let me die the death ofi my grandfather and grandmother. How was that ?| quoth the King. It was on a death bed, replied the: eobler. At which choice of the cobler’s, the King,, Queen, and nobles laughed hearily, and Crifpin and hisr wife were locked up in a room, to wait the King's plea-fme. No fooner were they a fecond time confined but thei cobler faid with a trembling voice, fweet wife, I wonderl what the K:ng intends to do with us now ? quoth Joan,i prithee be of good comfort, for I am perfuarted that theilKing and Queen, are the tanner and his kinfwoman.Ad.-font quoth the cobler, have a care of what you fay,I (hall have you fpeak tieafon and then we (hall be bothithang'd, i’faitb after all, fear rot, hulbard, I can fee asffar into a milld one as he that picks it; I am fure, thoughi they changec^thcir apparel, they could not change theirin complexion"i W hilft they were in this difputc, the King and Queen,I shelled in their former difgbuife, entered the loom attend¬ed by nobles and maid* of honour. The King and Queeni faid, Crifpin (ince you could not find the tanner, I have[ brought him to yon. At which words he fell upon bisknees, and cried.ii Long live our royal King and Queen,ii Who did their royal perfons fo demean,jl And in familiar fort did joke with usAnd I rejoice it is bo worfe.Arifc, hojicft coblcr laid the Ki«,g, and joyful be thyheart; I hare tried thy patiettee, and will prove thyfriend. The forty merks per annum which I formerlygave thee, •fliall he more by my bounty.Thou (halt have fifty pounds a year in land,Which lies upon the fouth fide of the ftrand iI am the royal giver, thou the taker ;And I will have it called the Cohler’s Acre.Poor Crifpin and his wife were fo tranfported at thiscoming off, and the more at the Queen’s gift, which wasa purfe of geld. Then they presented the court with acomical farce, called the forked friends, or the Fidlerand his wife; with which they finilhed the day, and weredifmiffed with great applaufe. He and Joan w ent home;and in a ffiort time built a row of houfos, Calling the placeCobler’s Acre, according to the‘King’s requeft, whichname continued after the cobltr's dooth. At this timeit is turned into a more magnificent building, and has loftits former name.Yet dating life, the cobler at the courtWas wellhelov’d and freely entertain’dWhere he afforded m*ch delightful Tport,So long as Harry Tudor liv’d and reign’d,The Xing died firft, the cohler follow’d aftet.Who bad fo often fill’d the court with laughter,FINIS.