THE ^COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHNand h;sTM^ELYE MISFORTUNES,WHICH HAPPENED ALL IN TWELVE DAYS AFTER THUNHAPPY DAY OF HIS MABRUGE.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.ilk-.- g., -55 Mi . - atia ^COMICAL HISTORYOFSIMPLE JOHN,And his Twelve Misfortunes.Simple John was a widow’s son, anda coarse country weaver to his trade,He made nothing but such as can¬vas for caff-beds, corn and coal sacks,drugget and barn was the finest webshe could lay his fingers to; he was agreat lump of a lang, lean lad, aboonsax feet atbre he was aughteen yearsauhl; and, as he said himsel, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry to behigh, that he did not stay to bring a’his judgment with him, but, yet hehoped it would follow him, anhe would meet wi’t as mony a andoes after they’re married. He habut ane sister, and she was marrieon Sleeky Willie, the wylie weaver!his mither was a rattling rattle-scul’cwife, and they lived a’ in ae houseand everbody held them as a famihof fools. When John came to man3estate, to the age of twenty-one years,he told his mither he would hae a wifeo’ some sort, either young or auld,widow or lass, if they had but headsand lips, tongue and tail, he sh xddiak them, and weel I wat, mL ler,quoth he,they’llgetalumpingp^ iny-worth o’ me, get me wha willHos mither tells him o’ the olackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedouchters, and every ane o’ them hadsomething. There was Kate, Ann,and Girzy, had a hundred merks thepiece. Kate and Ann had baith bas¬tards.. Girzy the eldest had a humpback, a high breast, baker legged, ashort wry neck, thrawn mouth, anhgoggle-ey’d ; a perfect iEsop of thefemale kind, with as many crookedconditions within as without, a verylump of loun-like ill-nature, row’d a’together, as if she had been ninemonths in a haggis—a second editionef crook backed Richard, an old Eng¬lish King, that was born with teethto bite a’ round about him ; and yetthe wight gaed mad to be married.4John’s mither told him the roadwhere to go,and what to say, and ac¬cordingly he sets out wi’ his Sundaycoat on, and a’ his braws, and a pairof new pillonian breeks o’hist[l s ersmaking. In he cemes and o wnhiserrand before he would sifcjhedui,—says good day to you, goodman,whatare you a’ doing here? I am wantinga wife, «n yere a flesher, and has agude sorting aside you; my mithersays ye can sair me or onybody likeme,what say ye ti]Ft,goodman ? Howmony dochters hae ye ? Are they a’married yet ? I would fain tak a looko’ some o* them gin ye like.A wow, said the gcodwife, come inby. honest lad, and rest ye, an ye bea wooer sit down and gie’s a snuff—A deed, goodwife, I hae nae mills butmy mither’s, and it’s at hame.—Whare win ye, I’se no ken ye ? I wat,quoth he, my name’s Jock Sandyman,and they ca’ me Simple John the sackweaver. I hae nae tocher but myloom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle, pat, abrass pan, twa pigs, four cogs, and a5iancUestick, a good cock, cat, twa!2rorcks new begun to lay my sisteiSara is married on Sleeky Willie thewylie weaver, and I maun hae a hagswife or my mither die, for truly she’si very frail, and ony harl o’ health shehas is about dinner-time ; what sayye till’t, goodman ? can ye buckleme or not ?Goodman. A dear John, ye’re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi’ ye ? they’re a’ there beforejya, which o’ them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o’them'will sair me, but my mither says there;is twa o’ them has fauts. And whatis their faults says the goodwife.Hout, said John, it’s no meikle, butII dinna like they got men or they• were married. And what shall I doi wi’ them ? said the goodman.John, deed, goodman, as ye’reay dealin among dead beasts andliving beasts, I wad put them awaamong ither beasts, or gin ye be aunony penny, let somebody tak them upo’ desperate debt, I sud flie the fykesfrae them, they anger’d you andsham'd you baith with their bastards,a wheen daft jades it gets men orthey be married, and bairns or theyget bridals.Goodwife. A wat that’s true, lad.Girzy. A weel, cohn, then, will yetak me ; I hae nae bastards ; howwill you and I do ?John. I wat na gin ye be able to geta bastard, yet ye may hae some waurfaut; but ye maun be my penny¬worth, for ye’re unco little, and I’mo’er muckle, and gin ye an I war ancecarded through ither, we may getbonny weans o’ a middlen mak. Ihae nae fauts to ye, but ye hae a highbreast, a humph back, a short neck,and high shouthers, the hands &legsmay do, tho’ your mouth be a wee tothe tae side it will lie weel to therock, and I hae a hantle o’ tow tospin, will be baith sarks and sacks tillus, ye’ll be my soncy dauty, up anddown ; a perfect beauty, wi’ catsyellow een, black brous, and red lips,and your very nose is a purple colour,7ye hae nae fauts at a’. Now, whenwill we be married ?Girzy. Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that yet.John. What! shouldna ye be readywhan I’m ready; everybody says thewomen’s aye ready,Goodman. Ye’ll hae to come backand bring somebody wi’ you, andwe’ll gree about it, and set the daywhan ye’ll be married.* John. A weel, goodman, I’ll tellmy mither o’t, and come back onMonday, and we’ll ha’e a chappino’ ale, and roasted cheese on thechance o’t, but I maun hae a word o’the bride out by, to convoy me, anda quiet speak to hersel about it.Goodwife. A wow na, John, thedaft loons will laugh at you,and she’llthink shame, gang ye out by, andshe’ll speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John and the bride, andher twa sisters goes to the windowwithin to hear the diversion, and whathe would say. Now says John,8Girzy my dear, my braw prettywoman, an ye be in earnest, tell me,for by my suth Pm no scorning.Girzy. Indeed, John, I’m verywilling to tak ye, but ye needna telleverybody aboot it.John, ' hen gie me a kiss on that,He shoves his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win doon toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I could eat you a’, ilike you sae weel; it’s a pity there issic a hard wa’ between us, I’se tellmy mither sae bonny as ye are. O,gie. me anither kiss yet, and then I’llgo One of her sisters standing byn a dark corner, gets hand o’ a cow’shead, which wanted a’ the skin butabout the mouth, and shoves ittowards his mouth, which he kissedin the dark. O, cries he, your mouthbe cauld since 1 kissed ye last, and Ithink ye hae a beard, I saw nae thatbefote, or is’t wi’ spinning tow thatmaks your mouth sae rough at ee’n.Hame he comes, and tells his9mither the speed and properties ofthe marriage. All things was gotready, and next week, sleeky Wrilliethe weaver and him came to gree themarriage, and stay all night with thebride, and teach John good manners,for when John was hungry,he mindedhis meat mair than his good behavi¬our, and he never was fu’ till thedish was tume. Willie the weaverwas to tramp on his fit when hethought he had suppet enough; so allthings beink agreed, upon short andeasy etrm, and the wedding day set,they were to be three times cried onSunday, and quietly married onMonday, neither piper nor fiddler tobe employ’d, but sweith awa hamefrae the Minister, and into the bedamang the blankets ; ha, ha, criedJohn, that’s the best o’t a’.Now every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper wasbrought, a large fat haggis, the verysmell wad a done a hungry bodygude, but John had only got twa orhree soups, until one of the butcher s10me'kle dogs tranced on John s fit*which he took to be the weaver, andthen he would eat nae mair. Aftersup er they went to bed, John andthe weaver lay together, and then heabused toe weaver for tramping saesoon, which he denied; but O, saidJohn, there’s a hantle o’t left, and Isaw whare it was set; they are a*sleeping, i’ll go rise and tak a s upo’t yet. Aye, een do sae, said sleekyWillie, and bring a soup to me too.Away then John goes to the amry,and lays to the haggis, till his anehaggis could hand nae mair; thenbrought some to Sleeky Willie; but,instead of going; to the bed where hewas, goes to the bed where the brideand the twa sisters lay, they beingfast asleep, speaks slowly,—will youtak it? wi’l you tak it? but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Wiliie’smouth, but instead of doing so, heputs a great spoonful close into oneof their backsides. Sleeky IFilliehears a’ that past, comes out the bed,11and sups out the remainder.-and setsup the dish where it was, leaves theamry door open to let the cats getthe blame of supping the haggis, andaway they go to bed; but poor Johncould get nae sleep for drouth; uphe gets in search of the water-can,and finding an empty pitcher, putsin his hand to find if there was anywater in it,but finding nane he closedhis hand when it was within the pit¬cher, and then could not get it out,goes to the bed and tells Sleekywillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door andgo out to a knocking-stane that stoodbefore the door, and break it there,to get out his hand, and not makea noise in the house. So out he goesand the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggis laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness (as she took itto be) off the tail of her sark, andshe being in a louting posture, hetook her for the knocking-stane, andcomes ower her hurdies with the12pitcher, till it flew in pieces abouther, then off she runs with the frightround a turf-sack, and into the housebefore him. John came in tremblingto the bed again, wf the fright, pray¬ing to preserve him, for sic a knock-ing-stane he never yet saw, for it ranclean awa w hen he broke the pigpuon it.ow John was furnished in a housewith his father-in-law; the bed, theloom, riddles treadles, thrumbs, reedpurn-wheel, was a’ brought and setup before the marriage, which waskept a profound secret; so that Johnget his first night of his ain wife, andhis ain house at ae time. So on thenext morning after the marriage,John and his wife made up somearticles, how they were to work, andkeep house; John was to keep thehouse in meat, meal, fire, and water;Girzy was to mak the meat, and keepthe house in clothes; the father-in-law to pay the rent for three years ;they were to hae nae servants, untilthey had children.13MISFORTUNE I.Then she ordered .lohn to rise andbegin his wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in acrowd to see him, gave a loud huzza:and clapping their hands at him, poorJohn, not knowing what it meant,thought it was fine sport, began toclap his hands too, and not mindingthe twa pigs, clashes the tane againstthe tither, till baith went to pieces,and that was a cheerful huzza to baithyoung and auld that was looking athim ; Girzy, the wife, draws him intothe house, and to him she flies withthe wicked wife’s weapon, her Tongueand Tangs, and made his ribs to crack,saying, “ They told me ye Avar daft,but I’ll ding the daffing out o’ ye, I’llbegin wi’ you as I’ve a mind to endwi’ you. Poor John sat crying andclawing his head, “ Ha, ha,” said he,its nae bairn’s play to be married, I14find that already. His mother-in-law came in and made np peace, wentto a cooper, and got tnem a big wood¬en stoop to carry in their water.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was sent tothe flesh-market an errand to hisFather-in law, who gave him a pieceof flesh to carry home, and as he wascoming out of the market, he saw sixor seven of the flesher dogs fall onand worry at a poor country colliedog; “yeTc but a wheen unmannerlyrascals, that fa’s a’ on ae poor beast,heth he should a be put in the tou-buoth, and taen to the bailies, andhanged for the like o’that, its perfectmurder; and ih he runs amongst thedogs, “And be hanged to you a’ the-gither, what’s the quarrel ? what’s thequarrel ?” John flings down the fleshhe had carrying, and grips the colly,who took John for an enemy too, andbites his hands till the blood followedthe whole of the tykes comes a’ onpoor John, till down he goes in15ithe dirt amongst their feet; andlone of the dogs runs off with theIflesh ; so John went hame baith dirtyland bloody, without his flesh, told.Girzy how it happened, who applied:her old plaister, her Tangs & Tongue,'made John to curse the very ministerthat married them, and wished hemight ne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.■ Next morning, John was sent to;the well with the great stoup to bringi.in water for breakfast; and as he waspulling the stoup out of the well, inhe tumbles head down, the well beingnarrow, he conldna win out. Some(people passing by chance heard theislunge, cried, and ran to his relief,I hauled him out half dead, helped himi into the house; and after getting a dryi sark, he was comforted with the old] plaister, her Tongue & hard Tongs.MISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, John, I mustij go to the market myself, for if youI go you’ll fight with the dogs, and let16them run awa wi’ ony thing you buy;;see that ye put on the pat, hae’t boil¬ing agin 1 come hame. John pro¬mised weel,but performs very badly. ,iShe’s no sooner gone, than he puts onthe new pat without any water in itand a good fire to make it boil, anaway he goes to the unhappy welJ.Jfills his stoup,and sets it down to lookfat a parcel of boys playing at cat ancfy,dog, they persuaded John to tak a|game wi’ them, on he plays, till ane cithe boys cries,hey John, venders youryG irzy coming. John runs into thenh o use wi’ the water, and the pat being})red-hot on the fire, he tumes in thencauld water into it, which made the ipat flee all in pieces, just as she waai,entering the door. John runs for it iand she runs after him, crying, cater;the thief, some persons s4opped him ishe comes up, and then she Jabonrhim all the way hame, and he cn in“ O Sirs, ye see what it is to be married. ! he mither-in-law had to makin dpeace again, and he promisedgood behaviour in time to come.17MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent himthe water to wash some cow’s pud-ngs and turn them on a spindle,lowing him how he was to do or h elent away. John goes to the watercry willingly, and as he turned andashed them, he laid them down be¬nd him, where one of his Uther-in-Vs big dogs stood, and ate them upi fast as he laid them down, till alllas gone but the very last ane, whichcarried hame in his hand, crying:e a child, and underwent a severe>st of the old plaister before any•flercy was shown.MISFORTUNE Vl.i His father-in-law, next day, sentn*m away to bring home a fat calf he:>ad bought in the country, and tiedp the money in a napkin, which hetirried in his hand for fear he shouldi»se it. Being very weighty, as it waslin half-pence, and as he was going•tongst a bridge, he meets a maninning after his horse, who cries to18John to stop the horse; John meetshim on the top of the bridge, andwhen he would not be stopped forhim, he knocks the horse on the facewith the napkin rave, and most ofthe half-pence flew over the bridgein the water, which made poor Johngo home craing very bitterly for hisloss, and dread of the old plaister,which he got very sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind any of it in the water, and therehe found some ducks swimming andducking down with their heads belowthe water, as he thought, gatheringup his money, he kills one of them,and rips her up, but found none ofit in her guts or gabbie; then says he,they have been but looking for it,111 go do as they did, strips of hisclothes and leaves them on the bridgegoes in a ducking, in which time, aragman came past, and took away allhis clothes. So he went home naked19to get a bath of the old plaisterMISFORTUNE VIIT.The next morning, she sent him toa farm-house for a pigful of butter¬milk,and as he was returning throughthe fields, the farmer’s bull and ano¬ther bull were fighting; the farmer’sbull being like to loss, John runs inbehind him, and sets his head to thebull’s tail, on purpose to help him topush against the other; but the poorbull thought John was some otherbull attacking him behind, fled aside,and the other bull came full driveupon John, pushed him down, brokethe pig, and spilt the milk. So Johnwent home to get his auld plaister,which began to be a usual diet tohim, and so he regarded it the less.MISFORTUNE X.His mother-in-law, with severalauld witty wives, held a private coun¬cil on John’s conduct, and bad luck,and conclnded he was bewitched.20riages were made in heaven ; “ye’reabaist liar,”says John,“for I was mar¬ried in your ain kitchen, and a’ theblackguards in the town were there,an it had a been a heaven they wadnawin in, yet ye tell me that matrimonywas sic a happy state, but had yegotten as mony well pay’d skins asI hae gotten, ye wad a kend what itwas, ill chance on you, sirand outhe goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking theMinister^ windows, for which he wasJohn was of the same opinion, andwent to the Minister, and told himhe was the cause of a’ his misfortunes,ca’d him a warlock to his face, andsaid, he had put such a black bargaininto his.hand, that he was ruined forever; insisted either to unmarrythem again, or send death and thebellman to take her awa, for she hasa lump of mischief on her back andanither on her breast, and the rest ofher body is a clean de’il. 1 he Min¬ister began to exhort him to peaceand patience, telling him that mar-2 Lsaught and put twa hours in theMocks, and at last his lump of corrup-i'ion came and rubbed his lugs, drewibis nose, got him out, and drove himihome before her, took a resolutionnever to set him about any busi nesslin timecoming, but keep him on hisdoom.MISFORTUNE X.Now she gave him no sleep allI that night for scolding. John got upin the morning lang or day, and lefthis tormentor in bed, fell asleep uponhis loom wi’ the candle in his hand,and so set the web,heddles, reed, andtreadle cords in a fire. By chancehis old viper looked out of the bed,or the whole house had been gone.I Up she gets, and with her criesalarmed the neighbourhood whocame toher relief; but poor J^ohnunderwent a dreadful swabbing forthis.MISFORTUNE XI.^fter the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopt, hewent tobed and slept a’that day, and     J22following night. On the next day ahaving nothing to do, she sent himin search of a hen’s nest, which haata’en some by-place to lay her eggsin; so as poor John was in an auld kilsearching a’ about the walls, the killribs broke, and down he goes with ivengeance into the logie, cutted ancbruised himself in a terrible mannerup he could not win, bnt had to creepout at the logie below, scarce able tcget hame, his lace and nose all run¬ning of blood. In this condition sholpitied and lamented for him verymuch, tied his sores and laid him irbed; then sat down very kindly, say¬ing, “ My dear, and my lamb, do yoi1think there is ony of your banes bro iken ; and what part of you is sairestiiAnd waat will I get to do good1.“Oh! said he, “Girzy, I’m a’brizzleratween the feet.” ‘ ^re ye indeed?quoth she, “then I wish ye hacbroken your neck, that / might jgotten anither, useless ae way, amuseless mae ways, upo’my word, ye’no be here, gang whare ye likr.”28M/SFORTUNE XII.Now, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’hirping on a staff; one came and toldhim his mother had died last night.Oh hoch! said John, and is m y mitherclean dead ! O an she wad but lookdown through the lift, and see howVm guided this morning, I'm sureshe wad send death for me too. Fmout o’ a mither and out o’ a wife, outO’ my health and strength and a’ myhealth and strength, and a’ my wark-leoms. His mether-in-law came andpleaded for him: Hand your tonguen ither, said Oirzy, if ye kent whataild h>m yewadna speak about him,hes useless, no worth the keeping ina house, but to ca him to die like anauld beast at a dykeside. Hout tout,co the auld wife, we’ll mak o’ himand he’ll mend egain. So John gotpeace made up after a, and he waseasier mended than the bnrnt web;got all his treadles and warklooms21set in order, the wife’s tongue ex¬cepted) which was made of worm¬wood and the rest of her body ofsea water, which is always in acontinual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburghyury if it be not easier to deal wifools thae headstrong fashions fouks,owns he has but an empty skull, buthis wicked wife wants wit to pourjudgment into it, never tells him o’danger till it comes upon him, forhis mother said he was a biddablebairn, if ony body had been to learnhim wst.FINIS.