i.rthBATTLEotWATERLOO.CONTAINING, THED'SfKE OF WELLINGTON’S DISPATCHTO EARL BATHURST,ALSO, /TFJE PLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS;'^ANB AY,Visit tr tpz Field of Battle,With a Description ofThe Bloody Engagement;AND AViSIT TO THE FRENCH HOSPITALSEDINBURGH:*n;>Ud as«i Sold by J. Morben, Ctr.r^atc.»UKE OF WELLINGTON’SDISPATCHTO EARL BATHURSTWaterloo,, June 19th, 181*.My Lord,BUONAPARTE having collected the 1st, ad, jd,4th and 6th oorps of the French army, and the Im¬perial Guards and nearly all the cavalry, on theSambre, and between that river and the Meuec, be- ;tween the 10th and the 14th of the month, advancedon the 16th and attacked the Prussian posts at Thu-in and Lobee, on the San;br., at day-light in themorning.I did not hear of these events till the evening ofthe 16th, and I immediately ordered the troops toprepare to march i and afterwards to march to theleft, as soon as I had intelligence from other quar¬ters to prove that the enemy's movement uponCharleroi was the real attack.The enemy drove the Prussian posts from theSambre on that day; and General Ziethen, wh*commanded the corps which had been at Charleroi, [retired upon Fleurus; and Marshal Priace Blucherconcentrated the Prussian army upon Sijmbreffe,bo ding the villages in front of his position of St.Amand and Ligny."•■V. .1TLc enemy continued hit march along, the roadfrom Charleroi towards Brussels, and on the sameevening, the 15th, attacked a brigade of the armyof the Netherlands, under Prince de Wt;mar, past¬ed at Frasue, and forced it back to the 'farin’houseon the same road, celled Les Quartre Bras.^ The Prince of Orange immediately reinforced thisbrigade with another of the tame division, underGeneral Pcrponcher , and, in the morning early, re-gained part of the ground which had been lost, soas to have the command of the comm'nnlcation lead¬ing from Nivelles and Brussels, with Marshal Blu-cher’s position.In the mean time T had directed' the whole armyto march open Les Qnartre Bras, and the sth divi¬sion, under Lieutenant General Sir Thomas Pictonarrived about half-past two in the day, flowedtby the corps of troops under the Duke of Bruyifwick,and afterwards by the c*nti igent of Nassau.At this time the enemy commenced an attack| upon Prince Blucher with his whole force except¬ing tljc 1 st and 2d corps ; and a corps of cavalryunder Genetal Kellermah, with which he attacked>our post at Les Quirtre Bras.The Prussian army mai/rained their positioniwuh their usual gallantry and peifeverance, againfta great difparity of numbers, as the 4th corps oftheir army, under General Bulow, hnd not joinedland I was no: able to afsift them as I wishtd, as" />was attacked myfelf, and the tioops, the cava’irv i,tparticular, which had a long dift.mce to march 'bUinot arrived.We maintained our position alfo, and complttcfydefeated and repulfed all the enemy’, attempts toIget pofsefsion of it. The enemy rcpestedly a'tack-td us with a large tody of inLm,y and cavalry*supported by a numerous and pawe.iul audierv .V ' ^flie m*de fevsral charges with the cavalry upon our1 «ntry. but all were repulsed in the ftcadiest man-tter. in this alfair, His Royal Highness the Princeof Orange, the Duke of Brunswick, and LieutenantGeneral Sir Thomas Picton- and Major-GeneralSir James Kempt, and Sir Denis Pack, who wereengaged Irona the conunencement of the enemy’sattack, highly diftinguished thetnfelves."The troops of the filth division, and thofe of theBiunfwick corps, were long feverely engaged, andconducted themfclves with the utmoft gallantry, I*mft particularly mention the 28th, 4*d, 78th, and9ld regiments, and the battalion of Hanoverians.Our iofs was great, as your Lordfhip will per.ceive by the enclofed return; and I have particu*-Hily to regret his Serene Highnefs the Duke ofBrunfwick, who fell, fighting gallantly, at the head• «f his troops.Although Marital Blucher had maintained hisposition at Sombref, he lull found bimfelf muchweakened by the feverity of the contest in whichhe had been engaged, and, a* the fourth corps hadnot arrived, he determined to fall back, and con¬centrated his army upon Wavre; and be marchedin the night after the action was over.This movement of the Marlhal’s rendered ne-cefsary a correfponding one on my part; and Iretired from the Farm of Quartre Bras upon Ge-nappe, and thence upon Waterloo the next morn-ing, the xyth, at ten o’clock.The enemy made no effort to purine Mar/halSlucher. On the contrary, a patrole which I fentto Sombref, in the morning, found all quiet, andthe enemy’s videttes fell back as the patrole ad-ranced. Neither did he attempt to mol eft ourmarch to th* rear, although made in the middle of•he day, excepting by following with vlarge body.of cavaliy (brought from his right) ills civairy un¬der the «rl of Uxbridge.This gave Lord Uxbridge an opportunity ofcharging them with the Irt Life Guards( upon theirdebouche from the village ct Gecappe, ujkv. whxnoccasion hisLordlhip has declared himfclf to be wellsatiffied with that regiment.The position which I took un, in front of Waterloo, crofscd the high roads ftom Charleroi andNivclle, and had its right thrown .rack to a ravinenear Merke Braine, which was occupied, and itsleft extended to a height above the hamlet 1 cr IsHaye, which was likewife occupied. In front ofthe right centre, and near the Nivelle road, Weoccupied the houfe and garden of Hougoumont,which covered the return of that flank; and in frontof the left centre, we occupied the farm of La MayeSainte.. By our left we communicated with Mar*fhal Prince Bluchcr, at Wavre, through Ohaim;and the Max fhal had promifed me, th^ in cafe wefhould be attacked, he would fupport me with oneor more corps, as might bs neccfaary.The enemy collected his army, with the excepttion if the third corps, which had been fent to ob-ferve Marlhal Blocher, on a range of heights inour front in the courfc of the night of the lyth avdyefttrday morning ; and about ten o’clock he com-mcnetd a furious attack upon our pofts at Mougou*mom. I had occupied that peft with s detach¬ment from General Byng’s brigade of Guards,which was in position near its rear: and it was farfume time under the command of Lieutenant Colo¬nel Macdonald, and afterwards of Colonel Home;and i am happy to add, that it was maintained,througnout the day, with the utmeft gallantry by* thefe brave troops, nctvithftanding the repealedeffbrss of large b-dits of the enemy to obtain pos-i Uffion of it.- • 6 YThil attack upon the right of our centre Vras ac¬companied by a very heavy cannonade tipou ourwhole line, which was deftined to fupport the re-peated attacks c f cavalry and infantry occasionallymixed, but fometimes feparate, Which were madeupon it. In one of thefe, the enemy carried thefarm houfe of Haye Sainte, as the detachment ofthe light battalion of the Irgion which occupied ithad expended all its ammunition, and the enemy oc¬cupied the only communication their was with them.The enemy repeatedly charged our infantry withhis cavalry ; but tliefe attacks were uniformly unsuc-cefsful, and they afforded opportunities to our ca¬valry to charge in one of which Lord I£. Sonwr-fet’s brigade, Royal Horfc Guards, and Firfl Dra¬goon Guards, highly uiftinguiihed themfclves, havingtaken many prifeners and an eagle.Thefe attacks were repeated till about feven inthe evening, when the enemy made a defperateeffort with the cavalry and infantry to force our leftcentre, near the farm of La Haye Sainte, whi?!),after a fevere conteft, was defeated; and havingobferved that the troops retired from the attack ingreat confusion, and that the march of GeneralBulow’s corpa by Fritchcrmont upon Planchenoitand La Belle alliance, had begun to take effect;and as I could perceive the £rc of his cannon, andas Marfhal Prince Blacher had joined in perfon,with a corps of his army to the left of our line byQhain, I determined to attack the enemy, and im»rtiediattly advanced the whole line of infantry, fup*ported by the cavalry and artillery. Ihe attacki'ucceeded in every point; the enemy was forcedfrom his pofition on the heights, and fled in the ut¬most cenfufion, leaving behind him, as far as Icould judge, one hundred and fifty pieces of ca*’Jnon, with their grumuniuon, which fell into o«rhands.I continued the purfsit till long after dark, andthen difeontinued it, only on account of the fatigueof ottr troops, who had been engaged during twelvehours, and becaufe I found myfc'f on the famsroad with Marfhal Biueher, who afsured me of hisintention to follow the enemy throughout the night:lie has lent me word this morning, that he had takenfixty pieces of cannon belonging to the ImperialGuard, and feVtral carriages, baggage, &c. belongingto Buonaparte, in Genappe.I propefe to move this morning upon Nivdles, andnet to difoontinue my operations.Your Lordlltip will cbi’erve, that fuch a defperateaction could not be fought, and fucb advantagescould not be gained, without great lofs; and, I amforry to add, that ours has been immenfe. In Lieu¬tenant Gcr.cral Sir Thomas Picton, his Majefty ha»fuftained the lofs of an officer who has frequently dif-tinguiftied bimfelf in hjs fervicc; ano g!c:i?ui;3y leading his diviftou to a charge with bayonets, bywhich one of the moft ferious attacks made by theenemy on ourpofition was defeated.The Earl of Uxbridge, after having fuccefsfulygot through the ardausday received a wound by al-moft the lalt (hot fired, which will, I am afraid, de¬prive hisMajefly for fom« time of his fervicca.His Royal Highness the Prince of Orange djf-tinguifhed himlelf by his gallantry and conduct tillhe received a wound from a musket ball, through thelioulder, which obliged him to quit the field.It gives me the greateft fathfaction to afsur*your lordfhip, that the army never, upon my occafion, conducted itfelf better. The divilion otGuard*, under L eutenant General Cook*, who is3feterdy wounded, M*jor General Maitknd, andMajor Bynj;, fet an example which was followedby all; and there is no officer, nor defcription oftroops, that did not behave well. I am alfo par¬ticularly indebted to General Lord Hill, for his as-liftance and conduct upon this, as upon all formereccalions.I (hould not do jui'tice to my fee’ings or toMartha 1 Blucher and the P.-ufsian army, if I didnot attribute the fuccefsful refult of this ardouaday to the cordial and timely afsistance received fromthem.Ihe operation of General Baiow upon the ene¬my’s Hank, was a moft decided one} and, even ifI had not found myfelf in a fituation to make theattack, which produced the final refill:, it wouldhave forced the enemy to retire, if his attacksthould have failed and would have prevented himffom taking advantage of them, if they Ihould un¬fortunately have fucceeded.I fend with this difpatch, two eagles taken bythe troops in this action, which Major Perry willhave the honour of laying at ahe feet of his RoyalHighnefs—I beg leave to recommend him to yourlordihip’s protection.I have the honor, &c.(Signed) WrtLiscTOK.To his brother he afterwards wrote,—** Neverhad I fought fo hard for victory—and never, fromthe gallantry of the enemy had I been fo near beingbeaten. In a letter to his mother, Lady Morning-ton, the Duke ot Wellington fays of Buonoparte—“ That he did his duty—that he fought the battlewith infinite skill, bravery, and pcrfeverance ;—andthe victory is folely to be alcribed to the fuperiorphyficallorce, and ccnSaaey of Britifh foldierso”9PLIGHT FROM BRUSSELS.SOME of the families of the firft refpectability,whom I had occafion to mention before, as being foanxious to get over to the Continent in time to beprefent at the opening of the campaign, were atBrufsels on the eventful Saturday, (as is by no meansimprobable,) when the Pmfsian horfemen came gal¬loping into the town, cutting their hurfes with theirfabres to expeditate their flight, I think it very like¬ly that they would lofe no time in turning their facesagain to their own happy country, and be glad tomix with the promifeuous throng.Sunday came, and the battle about nine miles offbegan to roar. It was deferibed by the inhabitantsof BruLels as one uninterrupted peal of thunder intheir ears for eight hours“ Then great events were in the gale,“ And each hour brought a varying tale.”But the fears of the inhabitants always made theFrench fuccefstul—What then must they have feltwhen the Englifh baggage paffed through Bruffeli,.and crowded the road to Antwerp. No wonderthat the rumour was then believed that the Frenchhad gained a complete victory. The entire popula¬tion were now to fly, a fatisfactory piece of evidenceof no great attachment to the French. W« areloft, we are lost, was the only cry to be heardamong the inhabitants. My friend rcfolved on flighton his lady’s account, and had the extraordinaryfortune to reach Mechline, about j 5 miles, unhurt.They got a place in the track boat on the canal;and being clcfc to the road, faw all its horrors :When horfes fell, the waggon wheels crufhed the* JOriser; bagpsge *.as tlirown off, ani carriccl Mlfby the peafants, to be cut *pen and plundered*Great furaj of money were in tins way loft; anddotlies and other property Tpread over the fields.An Englilh Officer, who had loft a foot, and waffcarried on his fervant’s back came and begged t«be taken into the boat. He was known to ray friend,who, although the paffengers intent on felf-prefer-■aation oppofed it by abfolute force obtained hisa^miffion. At Mechline, they found it very difii-to obtain admifsios into a houfe; and the diffi¬culty was increafcd when the people were told thatthe lady was ill. Moft providentially they procur«cd a carriage to Antwerp next day. On their arriv¬al there, they heard an altercation between theircoachman and a woman on the top, whom he hadtaken up, and would not let down till fhe paid afranc. They found this poor woman to be the wi¬dow, newly fo made, of a foldier killed at QuartreBras ; and the mother of a child which flic had theday befor* leen cruihed to death by a waggon wheel.Many of the wounded were travelling the fame road,fomc had loft a hand or an arm ; thmifands were oafoot; and all forts of carriages and horfes crowdedthe road, and increafsd the danger. The feene wasbeyond delcription horrible: but a feeling of terrorand fclf-prefervation much diminifnel the concern forthe fufferers'—This is very common in the horror*of war. 't he peifona cruihed in the flight to Ant¬werp, wcie thrown into the ditches. The confafioawas dreadful yet co one had feen a tingle French-man !What then muft have been the feelings of the poorgardener at Hongomont, at the time he was obligedto remain dofc prifoner in his garden, in the mid ftof the carnage, becaufe, (as fie candidly avowed),.when the battl* was begun he could not venture#.Ifout of it—of the farmer Lacafte, in M* pinioned fit«nation befide Buonaparte—or, if I may ventuie f«t« fpeak, of the commandant of that namelcfs corp*of Gentl rmen light horfe volunteer, when he re¬ceived the unwelcome hint from Lord Wellington’*aid-du-carap, that an opjxjrtunity occused for themto charge the French cavalry ; their colonel, in greatfurprife, objected the enemy’s ft:ength—cuirafse*,—and the confideration, which had unaccountably,he faid, efcaped the Commander in chief, that hi*regiment were “all gentlemen !!” This divertingrefponfe was carried back to Lord Wellington : whodifpatched the mefL'-igcr *gain to fay, that if thegentlemen would take poft on an eminence, whichLe pointed to in the rear, they would have an ex¬cellent view of the bat le ; and he would leave thechoice of a proper time to charge, entirely to theirown fagacity and diferetion, in which ke had thefulleft confidence. The colonel actually thanked theaid-du-camp for this diftinguilhed poft of honour, andfollowed by bis gallant train, with their very highplumes, (the prefect great point of continental mili¬tary foppery), was ont of danger in a moment.VISIT TO THE FIELD OF BATTLE.IN the courfe of the Monday, the news of thedefeat of the French arrived; and on the followingday my friend and his wife returned to Biufsels.On the Wednefday he vifited the field of Waterloo.His account of it is dreadful 1—The ftrft thing which{truck him at a diftance, was the quantity of capsand hats ftrewed on the ground. It appeared as ifthe field had be«a covered with crows. When he12ta-r,e to tix fpct, t’.is Haht war> truly fliocking. Atfirfl tlttre was * dreadful pjcpor.derance of BritUhflair., which looked very ill; but more '^advance,the revenge made itfdf dreadfully marked, for teaFrench lay dead for one Britifh. The field was fomuch covered w ith blood, that it appeared as if it hadbeen completely flooded with it; dead horfes feeincdinnumerable ;—and the peafantry employed in bury¬ing the dead, generally ftript the bodies firft. OfCcurfe thefe people got a vafi booty, when they re¬turned out of the neighbouring wood, after the bat¬tle ; many of them fome hundred pounds. A greatquantity of cap plates, cuiraftps, &c. were taken bythem and fold zb relief.We returned to the tree, and directed our ftep.swtflward, to go along the Britifh line to the right.There w*s no difficulty in tracing the line by thegraves of the brave men who had fallen where theywere 6rft polled. The furvivors never quitted it,but to advance. The very ground was hallowed;but it was trede by us with refpect and gratitude ;the multitude below, fo lately interred, occafioneda very itrpreffive fubject of reflection.No one, who has not feen it, can imagine howtouching it was to ste, ftrewed around their graves,fragments of what the brave men wore or carriedwhen they fell. Among the ftraw of the troddtndown corn, which (till covered the Geld, lay caps,/hoes, pieces of uniforms and (hirts, tufts, cockades,feathers, ornameitial horfe-hair, red and black, andwhat moft flruck us, great quantities of letters, andleaves cf books. The latter were much too far de¬faced by rain and mud, to make it worth our whileto lift any of them. In one letter, we couli juftmake out the words, fo afterting in their circa;.''-/ptncee, “ M' dear husband'’*13The tract over which tha guard moved, and overwhich they fled, was ftill, when we pafied it, coveredwith their fpail, and marked with hori'es’ feet, can¬non wheels, and the deeper furrows of bills andbombs. Ponfonby fell here.A thoufand French dead, alone, lay on this fpot ;and even yet it exhibited holfters, (one we obfervedwhich had been filled with blood) Uandard holder*,pieces of bridles, (traps., girths, &c all denoting a tre¬mendous conflict of cavalry ; and the cap* of thegrenadiers of the French guard, lay yet in conGdera-ble numbers, with rags of their uniforms. Somemore affect ing remains were alfo there, pieces oftaitan, and of black oflrich feathers: the plaids andplumes of ScotlandArduous and painful, indeed, muft have been thatftruggle, in which upwards of 2oo,coo men on both(ides, were engaged in the work of death for nine orten hours.—Wcmay readily conceive what a horriblething it would be, to behold two columns of infantrycharging one another in the greattft fury, with thebayonet, and. occafionally pouring well-directed vol-lics of musketry into each others ranks ; but fuchwere the deadly vilits of the cannon and cavalry onthat dreadful day, that the author whom we have folargely quoted, was repeatedly afsured by officerswith whom he converted, that tbefc interludes of in¬fantry battle were a kind of rtf.dhment, after theirtoils with other arms. It need no; then be wonder¬ed, that Marihal Ney, in his e.-.iei to the Duke ofOtranto; calls it a terrible battle, and toe rmlt (right¬ful carnage ever he had witntited; and t:is.t it was(aid of the Duke of Wellington, that often he hadprayed in agony during the dreadful conflict, for thePrufsians on the night.But horrific as the (bectaclc of a £r!.i of ba’tlcumud be, when covered with the dying *nd thedc*d;and the dreadful lufferings to which the actual com-batants are nectfTtrily expofed; their are otherpainful emotions—there are other evils attendant ona hate of warfare, which humanity has caufc to de¬plane. What, for inftance, muft the neighbouringinhabitants feel, who refide in a country immediate¬ly adjoining the feat of war? “ How dreadful” faysthe judicious Hall, “ to hold every thing at themercy of an enemy, and to receive life itfelf as aboon dependant on the fword ? How boundless thefears which fuch a fituation muft infpire, where theifsues of life and death are determined by ne knownlaws principles or cuftoms, and no conjecture can beformed of our deftiny except as far as it is dimly de-cyphered in characters of blood in tbs dictates of re¬venge, and the caprices of power. Conceive but fora moment the conflernation which the approaches ofan invading army would imprefs on the peaceful vil¬lagers in this neighbourhood. When you hareplaced yourfelf, for an inflant in that fituation, youwill learn to lympathife with thofe unhappy countrieswhich have fuflained the ravages*of arms. But howis it poffible to give you an idea of tbefe horrors ?-—Here you behold rich harvefls, the bounty of heavenand the reward of induflry, confumed in & moment,‘or trampled under fcot: while famine and peftilencefollow the fteps of defolation—There the cottages ofpeafants given up to the flames; mothers expiringthrough fear, cot for themfelves, but their infants;the inhabitants flying with their helpless babes in alldirections, miferable fugitives on their native foil!—in another part you witness opulent cities taken byflorin; the ftreets, where no founds were heatd butthofe of peaceful mirth and contentment, filled on afudden with flaughter z.nd blood, refounding with theiscries of the purfuing and the purfued ; the palaces ofnoblei demo’ilhed, the haufes of the rich pillaged,the chaftity of virgins and of matrons violated ; andevery age, fex, and rank, mingled in piomitcuousmafiacre and ruin.”Defcription of the Battle of Waterloo,By an Officer prefent.As We itood on our commanding fpot, the firftthought was mofi. naturally of the numbers of thecontending armies refpectively. The Britifh wereBated by Buonaparte himfelf, at 80,000, and certain¬ly they have never been made out to have been more.Marlhal Blucher eBimates them at the fame number.Of thefe not more than 30.COO were actually britifh ;the reft were Gei mans, Belgians, and Dutch. Therewere afiurcdly no corps of the Prullians in the battlebefore the evening..The French army certainly were 130,000* mak¬ing the enormous balance in their favour of 50,oo*men ; and, be it never forgotten, al! French, and thebeft troops in France.In truth, the Britifh army were a mile and a halffrom the neareft skirts of the wood, and never hadone man within it; and fo far from being crufiledand overlaid, the ntaflea, and of the French gusrd too,were often routed by the bold dafh of an almoft in¬credibly fmall proportion of their numbers.—nay,fometimes, as will afterwards be told of the High-* According to account given of the Port Folio,found in Buonaparte’s carriage, he palled the Frenchfrontier with H0,>0oo men onlylanders and Scotch Greys, and It happened in manyother parts of the field befides, by the prodigies ofnearly infolated individual valour.Buonapate knew the number of his already de¬voted adverfaries well; and, with bia ufual prelump-tion, expreffed great aftonilhrrent to fee their undis¬mayed front on that fide of the foreft. His fear was,that they would efcapt him in the night; and he ex¬claimed on firft feeing their order of battle with thedawn—“ Ah ! I have them then, tl efe Englilh !’’The regular battle, it is well known, commencedby thealmoft fimultaneous advance (and wediftinctlyfaw their couTe) of three entire coipso’armee on theright, left, and centre, of the Britilh line. The at¬tack on the right had for its firft object the carryingof the port of Hougoumont, the key of the pofition :in pofeeflion of which, the French could have turnedthe Britifliright. That column had the (hortell way tomove ; and, under King Jerome, it was there the can¬non and musketry firft began.The utmoft fuccefs of probably 30 000 men war,obliging the light companies of the 1ft. id and 3dfoot guards, under the command of Lord Sr.ltoun,to take refuge within the poft, inftcad of defendingthe fmall wood, on the o.itfidc of it The poft itfelfwas never occupied by the.cn, my for a moment, i heguards kept it, in fpite of grajie, and musketry, andbails, and (hells, and fames ; till they ifsued horn itvictorious iu the hour of venge- nee.The corps d’anner def ined for the left, (the 6th)foou arrived in the firft am. k in that quarter aboutthe centre of the Britilh left wing : but were calmlyreceived and repulfed, by the admirably ferved ar¬tillery, and by the 42d 79th and gad Highlanders,funpuTted, it is believed by the lit and 28th regt-^ *7.ments, under the lamented Sir ThemasPicton. Thewhole flope was in our view. Nothing could be moretremendous than the mode of attack ; it was headedby artillery, which difeharged {bowers of iron grape{hot. each bullet larger than a walnut. It was abattle on the part of the French, of cavalry and can¬non, both equipped as if by magic, and much morrtformidable than had ever been known iu the Frencharmies, even to take the held.Haading thefe colums were the iron-cafcd cuir-sffiers. in as complete mail, bread and back as in thedays of that defenhve armour upon which the musketballs were heard to ring as they glanced off, withoutinjuring or even dunning the wearer. Thel'c men atarms had immenfe infantry columns of fupport attheir backs.A Hunted hedge bounded eacli fide of a narrowcrofs road, which ran along the whole of the Bri-tilh left wing, joining the great road near theDuke of Wellington’* tree, already mentioned. Inthe hedge there were a number of gaps, which had.been made to ferve as a kind of embrafurcs for a lineof th« Britifli cannon of the left wing ; and a triflingbank only here and there, two or three feet high,on which the hedge grew, and in which apertures forthe guns were cut where neceffary, was the onlything refembiing {belter, whish any poitian of ourartillery enjoyed.When the cannon and infantry had ftaggered themaffes of the enemy, and tomewhat calmed theirfury ; round the extremity of the crofs road, fullon the flank oj th« lot-—horfe, in perfect condition;men, in fleady determination—-wheeled like awhirlwind, the Royals Greys, and Ennki Mens—-England, Scotland, and Ireland, in h.gii rivalryand irrclUlible union. In vain for the lecond timejSthe iron cafes, their cannon was defected and tak¬en ; and the columns of infantry were thrown Intofuch confufion, that they had juft time to get beyondthe range of the prudent purl'uit of their adverfaries*whofe warfare was yet defen five. The dragoons andinfantry with their captsred cannons and eagles,calmly returned to their place in pofitlon, to avfaitthe next advance of the enemy.If our prefeat ground had the well-fought roundnow faintly deferibed, in full view; fo had Napol¬eon’s ftation, about a mile along the road from wherewe flood. With the poor farmer Lacofte pinionedon horfeback betide him, ft^od the Emperor, unableto conceal his aftonifttment at the recoil, and almoitlight, of his beft troops ; and conftrained in fpite ofhitnfelf, repeatedly to mutter complements to thefpirit, rapidity, and fteadinefs of the Britifh cavalry ;—“Thefe Britilh fight admirably,” faid he to Soult;“ but they muft give way.”—” No, fir, they preferbeing cut to pieces,” was the anfwer of him whoknew fomething of them. Ike grey horfes efpectaUJy ftruclc him, and he often repeated, ” What finetroops l”The attacks now deferibed, we are told, mightferve at a fair fpecimen ot the reiterated war duringthe entire day. From eleven in the morning tillfeveo at night, it confifted of a fucccffion of fuchalfaults, with unabated fury, and mcreafing num¬bers, and often with a boidnafs and deadly effect,which perplexed our foldicra, and put the:* mat ch¬iefs firmnefs to the utmolf trial; It may be believ¬ed that every frelh onfet fwept away muhitudesof our infantry ; ftill the furvivors gave not an inchof groufid, but made go^d the lines, and firm thefquares.—No men in Europe could have enduredmore than they did.—Again and again the enemy’scan non rebounded from thtir adamantine front, dil-’9mayed and fcattered. These were the breathingtimes of our heroes! Line was with admirable ala¬crity formed for a greater breadth of fire than thefijuares afforded, immediately on feeing the backplates of the cuiraffes t when maffes of French in¬fantry approached with a heavy fire of muaketrjr,They did ‘ go through their work,’ as Napoleonoften muttered, ‘unlike any troops he had everfeen.’Such were the dreadful vifits of cannon and cavalry,that, as I have been afsured, thcfe interludes ofinfantry battles were a kind of refrelhment, aftertheir toil with other arraa.—They never took thetrouble to look at the numbers; they felt as if boyahad attacked them, merely to keep them in wind;and invariably routed the columns by a very fewfteps in advance with pointed bayoneta.The Duke, in vifiting different points was oftenreceived with a (bout of impatience to be led on.The gallant 95th were very tired of the iron cafes,and the iron grape (hot. An immenfe body ofTrench infantry happened to approach that nobleregiment at one time when the commander was pay-ing them a vifit ; “ Let us at ’em my Lord ” letus down upm ’em,,> quite regardlefs of their num¬ber*. “ Not yet,” replied the chief, “ not yet mybrave men, but you (hall have at them foon; firm alittle longer ; we mud not be beat; what would theyfhy in England ?”From our advantage ground we had gained a veryfatisfactory general idea ef the field, and beforefetting out on a circuit of more minute iafpection,went down to the farm howfe of La-Haye Siint, t»examine the date in which the conflict had left thatpod. Much of the wreck, of the battle lay betweenthe Duke of Wellington’s dation and the farnt-houfe, which manifefted the hazard to which haksd been expofed. It is juft an ordinary farm-houfe€-Osr.d court of officer. The houfe ibnns one fide ofa fquare and the effices the other three ; the courtyard, collectinjr the tnaiuire in the middle, and fhel-tering the cattle. The Sde oppofite to the houfeis a long building for costs ; the pafsage being fep-arated from the cow’s balls by a parapet abovefour feet high. At each end of the pafiage is alarge door or gate, both of which were literallyriddled with musket balls, fired from within, andfrom without, as could eafily be diftinguifiied fromthe kind of hole the ball had made. The bodice,after tlie action, were heaped up in the cow’a flails,as high as the parapet. The whole farm houfc,yard, and offices, might have afforded room forIOcO or ijoo men to act. They had made holesfor mniketry all around the building ; and many ahole had been thade for them by the enemy. Thewhole prefented a feme of lhattered ruin, whichcould not be looked upon without a degree of in-tereft amounting to terror. It (loud a noble monu¬ment of the determined valour of our Germanbrethren in arms.Some very poar childrct) vtho feemed to llarveabout the ruins foon joined us, and began to begmoney from us with mofl perfevering importunity.Their miferable appearance wut in perfect agreementwith the feene of defolatjon about them. We fawno grown people who feem’d to have any interefl inthe olace.Having fucceeded in opening the lhattered doorwhich led out to the fie ds to the welt, we faw fev-tral vremeu Hill engaged in the lately mod lucrativeOccup-tion of gleaning up any tiling which theycould fell to (bangers. The fame perfons had, veryprobably been active in dripping and plunderingthe (lain. We asked them wheic they were duringthe action ?—" AH in the wood.’ -—I)id they heap*the noil's r—The anTycr w^a a ftrug and look otdreadful recollertion. ! hey teemed to be findingverf little w^rth taking up. We U'ere ourfelves,at the moment, more fortunate, for among foraeftraw, and plainly marked avith biood, we found aFrench bayonet which we b ought away with us.If the unknown cfead called forth thefe feelings,much more did the conicioufnefs of flaiKling on thefpot, where fame one, known to us, hid “ noblyfongkt and nobly died.” We flood where then in-ferdling Sir William de Lancey met his death, whenrallying, with great fpirit and effect, a battalion ofHanoverians, which had got into confufion. Henobly refufed to occupy the time of the furgeons withhis wound, which he had heard them pronounce mor¬tal, when they thought him infenfiblc. He was re¬moved to the village of Waterloo, where he died.That ■gallant youug man’s early name, and jult fa¬vour with his great commander, excited general anddeep regiet for his fate; and no where more than inEdinburgh, where he had been married only a fewweeks before.Indeed the inflances of heroic death were as num¬erous as they were affecting. Colonel Miller ofthe firfl Guards req.iefted a laft fight of the coloursunder which he had fought. He kitted them fer¬vently and begged they might be waved over himtill he expired.The lamented Captain Curfon, Lord Scarfdale sfon, met his fate with almoft “ military glee.” Infalling from his hone, he called out gaily to LordMarch- who waa riding with him at a gallop—” Good b’ye, dear March.” And by one effortmore, when his friend had left him for the urgentduty of animating a foreign corps, in very criticalctrcumftances, lie looked up, and cried, “ Well*done,dear Mar^.”eThe afflicting idea ftrongly occurred, of the nextday’s horrors of fuch a field as Waterloo. Num¬bers *f the defperately wounded and dying, in thernidft of the dead, railed their heads, when fifitorsto the feene palled them, to implore water, or tobeg at their hands to end their agonies. Many oftire wounded were not removed till Wednelday, thethird day after the battle.The tath light dragoons was polled near thePrince of Orange. Their charges were of the moftIpirited kind ; and nothing but the cuirafles enabledfhe French dragoons to refill them. In the accountof fo much pure valour without trick or cover, a-gainft. fo much iron, it is not difficult to detide wherehonour would award the balance. Many brave menwere facrificed to the iron cafes, and taffeta flagswhich' frightened their horfes. A gallant youngfriend of mine own, Mr Elliot Lockhart, eldefl fonof the member for Selkirkfhire, lay near the fpot wehad now reached. He had juft joined the 12thdragoons, and in the firft charge of his regiment, inwhich he bore a very diftinguilhed part, received awound which was inftantly fatal. There was amelancholy fatisfaction in beholding the fpot of hi*honourable grave ; a prouder fepuich.-e the turf oQwhich the foldier falls, than the proudeft maufoleamon confecratcd ground. *No part of the field was more fertile in impref-ftve affiociarions, than the ground of the 30th and73d regiments, brigaded under our gallant country-manr fcverely wounded in the battle, Sir ColinHalket. I had already heard much of the firmnefsof thefe brave tr oops ; and was to hear dill mors.To no fquare did the artillery, and particularly thecuiraffiers, pay more frequent and tremendous vi-fits ; and never was it (haken for a moment. Thealmoft intimacy of the fotdicrs with thefc death-23Wringing vifitants, increafcd fo much as the day ad¬vanced that thes- began to recognife their frees.Their boldnefs nr.idi provoked our men. Theygalloped up to the bayonet points, where of courfetheir horfes made a full flop, to the great danger ofpitching their riders into the fquarc. They thenrode round arid round the fcarlcfs bulwark of bayo¬nets ; and in all the confidence of panoply, oftenr.ooly walked their horles, to have more time to fearchfor fome chafm in the ranks, where they might ridein. The balls abfolutely rung upon their mail j andnothing incommoded the rider, except bringing downhis horfe, which at lail became the geneial order.In that event he fnrrendered himfrlf, and was receiv¬ed within the fquarc, till he could be fent prifoncr tothe rear;—-a generofity ili-mentcd, when it iscon-fidered that the French fpared very few lives, whichit was in their power to take. Many officers weremurdered, after giving up their fwords; and whenprifoners were collected, cavalry were fent to cutthem down, when circumflances at the moment pre¬vented their removal ! A young officer of the Greyswell known to the author, was (hot by a Frenchofficer whofe life he had preferved. The object ofthe Frenchman was to make his efcape. He did noteffect his purpofe ; being overtaken and cut to piecesby the enraged foldisrs.Vifit to the French hofpita'ie.Beyond the citadel is the Corderie, a buildingconftvucted by Buonaparte, as a rope-work, 130feet long, to g:ive fpace for a cable of a firft.rateShip of war. It was fitted up as the hofpital of a-bout tf co of his wounded foldiera, piiftfbers ofwar.24Tlie whole immeme length of this place w&s open,aUd t’ e beds were arranged in four rows, from endto end. We walked generally unnoticed by theiroccupiers, up and down the lines between ; and e-qually difregardeu. frequently ifept over a bed. orpafsed between two, when going from one palsage toanother. I-t was inipofiible to imagine two afpect*of human lot more ftrikingly contrafted, yet morefordibly aflociated, than th: fpcctacle which thefc un¬fortunate enthuiiafts prefented now, and their confi¬dence and fury but yefterday ; their fubmiflive tran¬quillity in their flannel gowns and caps in the hofpital,and their noife and cuiraises in the field.Death was at work here, more manifet’tly than wehad obferved among the EnglHh wounded. One manwas pointed out who had tofsed his amputated arm inthe air, with a feeble fhout of “vivc 1’ Emperuer.,’Another, at the moment of the preparation* to takev off his leg, declared that there was fomething heknew of that would cure him on the fpot, and favchis limb and the operator’s trouble. When asked toexplain this ftrange remark, he faid ‘'a fight of theEmperor!” The indispenfible amputation did notfavc him, he died in the furgeon’s hands; and hislaft words, fteadfaftly looking oh his own blood}were, that he would cheerfully (bed the laft drop inhis veins for the great Napoleon! A Angularly wild,and almoft poetic, fancy, was the form in which athird bore his teftimf.ny ; he was undergoing, withgreat fieadinefs, the operation of the extraction of aball from hi& fide, and it happened to be the left; inthe moment of his grratefl fuffering, he exclaimed,’'an inch deeper, and you’ll find the Empercr.”F I N I S,