| THE ij-SgCROSS OF CHRISTgP Christian’s Glory, si IShewing, # ^^ That in Chrift’s Crofs we have the nfih-cpeft provifion for our fpiritual watffs', a ^^ foundation of the fublimeft hope, and^ a fountain of the moft exuberant joy. fr<§SS E R M OPreached at the Vibration of the Re- ^verend Mr. John Brown.\ By the Rev. Mr. JAMES H E RVEr,%&Minifter of the Gofpel.I ————   ———a Gal. vi. 14. God forbid that 1 Jhouldglory fave^ in the crofs of our Lord Jefus Chrijl. 4$'Rev. vii. 14. 15—Thefe are they which came outy of great tribulation, and have walked their j£)^ robes and made them white in the blood of tfie lgg[Lamb. Therejore are they before the throne. JTPrinted in the Year MDCC[Price One Penny.]fmmmwsmmwaMesamB>oodoo^The CROSS of, CHRIST theChriftiaris dory.AS E R M O N, 6v.Gai^ jj. 14. God forbid that I Jbould glory, five. the cYofs of our Lord Jefus Chi if.THE crofs of Chrift, was the favourite topic ofSt. Paul's contemplation.—The crofs ofChrift was the chofen fubjett of his fermons, andthe grand theme of his writings.—At ali times, andin every capacity, he prqfeflco, he avowed, he g/a-ried in the crofs of Chrift—Nay, what is very re¬markable, he gloried in nothing elfe—And what isft ill more obfervable, he abhorred the thought of glo¬rying in any thing elfe. He fpeaks of fuch a prac¬tice, in the language of deteftation and dread; ac¬counting it a high degree both of folly and of wick-. iednefs; God forbid that I Jhould glory, fave in thecrofs of our Lord Jefus Chrijt.It may, therefore, be an employ worthy of ourprefent attention, to enquire into thenafK/r, therai-fonabknefs, and the ivifdom, of this tefoiurion. Allwhich, I hope, will appear, if We cohfider,I. in what the apoftle would not glory,in In what he did glory.III. What reafon he had, to glory in the crofs ofChrift.Thefe points being briefly difpatched, I ftiall begleave to add a word of application; fuggefted bythe tenor of the difcowfe, and adapted to the cir-cumftancesThe Crofs of Chrift, he, 3cumftances of my feveral hearers. And may thatadorable Jefus, who has exchanged his crofs for anheavenly crown, accompany all with his divine blef-fing.Let us then enquire,I. In what the apollle did not glory ?—Not inthe greatnefs of his learning as a fcholar. He wasbrought up at the feet of Gamaliel-, educated by thempft famous tutor of the age. Nor was his genius,or his induftry* inferior to the other advantages ofhis education. Yet all thefe advantages, with theircorrefpondent acquifitions, he accounted no betterthan pompous ignorance, or refined folly.Not in the Jlriftnefs of his life, as a Jew.—Inthis refpeft he profited above his equals: Wastaught according to the perfect manner of the lawtf the fathers, ARs xxii. j. after the ftrifleft leftof their religion, he lived a Pharifee, ABs XXvi. 5.Was zealous, exceedingly Zealous, of the whole,ceremonial law, and of all the traditional confiitu-tions. Which accompli/hments muft finilh hischa-ra&er among his countrymen ; muft open his wayto fome of the firft honours of the nation; and givehim a name among thofe worthies who were reputedthe excellent of the earth. But what others countedgain, this he counted lofs for Chrift.'Not in the eminency of his gifts, nor in the ex¬tent of his ufefulnefs, as a chriilian minifter.—Hqhad been caught up into the third heaven; hadl}eard the words of God, and feen the vifion of theAlmighty; had wrought all manner of wonders,and figns, and mighty deeds'—What was ftill morevaluable, he had planted churches, and convertedfouls. His labours had gone out into all lands, andhis words unto the ends of the earth. Yet allthefe acquirements, before the infinite God, weredefeftive; all thefe performances, in point of jufti-A a fication.4 The Crofs of Chrijlfication, were infujficient, Therefore, ia none ofthefe he gloried. Which reminds me of the fe-cofed enquiry*II. In what the apoftle did glory.—He gloried itta crofs. Strange! What fo fcandalous as a crofs-?Oft a crofs rebellious Haves were executed. Thecrofs was execrable among men, and dccurfed evenby God, Cal. iii. 13. Yet the apoftle glories in thecrofs. Crucifixion not being ufed among us, theexpreffion does ftot found fo harjh; neither is theidea fo horrid. But to the ear of a Galatian, itcdaveyed much the fame meaning, as if the apofilehad gloried in a halter; gloried in the gallows, glo¬ried in a gibbet f.“ Stu-Some I am informed, Were difgufted atthefe words, halter, gatlt’ws, gibbet, they are fo hor¬ridly contemptible !—Tb Wvhom i would teply ; Thatthe crofs in point Of ignominy and torment, includedall this' and more.. . Unlefs the Englilh reader form tohimfeif fome fuch image, he will never be able to ap¬prehend the fcandalotis nature, and (hocking circum-fiancesi'Of his divine Mailer’s deathThe words, I mull coafefs, wele diverfified, and thefentiment was reiterated, on puipoie to affeft the mindwith this aftohilhing truth. Neither can I prevail uponmyfelf'to expunge the exprefiions ; uhlefs I could fub-ilitute others of a more ignominious and execrable im¬port. Only I would beg of the ferious reader, to fpenda moment in the following refledtion :—“ Is it fo ? that“ a polite and delicate fear, can hardly endure fo much“ as the found of the words ? How amazing then was** the corideftenfion ! How charming and adorable thegoodnefs of God’s illuftrious Son ; to bear all that is“ fignified by thefe intolerably vile terms ! Bear it“ •willingly, bear it chearfully, for us men, and our“ fixation! *’the Chriftian's Glory. 5“ Stupid creature! (perhaps foipe niay peply)To undervalue the rooft fubftantial endowments,“ and glory in infamy itfelfBut ftop a moment,and hear the apoftle farther. He glories in thecrofs of Chrift; that illuftrious perfon, who y/asanointed to be the all-inltru<fting Prophet, the all-atoning Prjeft, and the all-conquering King of thechurch.—In the crofs of Chrilt Jefus; who, bythe difcharge of all thofe important offices, Ihouldfave hjs people from the dominion of fin, and fromthe damnation of hell.—In the crofs of Chrifl Jefus,our Lord; and not ours only, but Lord of all;who doth according to his will, in the army ofheaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth.Dan. iv. 35. Who hath on his yejlure, and on histhigh, a name ivritten, KING OF KINGS, ANDLORD OF LORDS, Rev. xix. 16.And is it poffible for any human heart, to con¬template the crofs of fo divine a Being, and not toS glory ? Js it poffible to fay, ‘ Angels he rules over‘ you ; but he died on a crofs for me;’ and not ex¬ult in fuch tranfporting beneficence ?■—This willbe more evident, if we examine,III. What rea/on the apoftle had, to glory in thecrofs of Chrift.—The crofs, tho’ in itfelf an igno¬minious tree, yet being the crofs of Chrift, is infi¬nitely ennobled. It becomes the tree of fife. Itbears the divincft fruit. Its duftcrs are all fpiritualand heavenly bleffings. Two or three of thofeclufters, you will permit me to feleft; and may theGod of all mercy, make them better than a feaft toevery humble foul!One bleffing is the pardon of fin. The pardon•f all fin, original and a&ual: fin that is remem¬ber’d, and fin that is forgotten: fin, however cir-cumftanced, or however aggravated. The pardonof all was purchafed by the death of Chrift,—com-A 3 pletely6 7 he Crofs of Chrifipletely purchafed;—fo that, againft the true believ*er, fin fhall never rife up in judgment; fhall notfo much as be mentioned unto him; Ezek. xviii. ^2.ihall be done away, as though it had never been.For thus faith the embaifadorof the Prince of peace;Be it known unto you, men and brethren, that thro'this man is preached unto you the forgivenefs of fins:and by him all that believe are juftijied from all things,sffis xiii. 38.—Oh my foul! my guilty foul! whatare all the kingdoms of the world, and the gloriesof them, compared with this ineffable blefftng ! Yetthis is but one among a multitude.Another benefit, accroing from the crofs ofChrift, rs, reconciliation with God.—When we wereenemies, we were reconciled to God by the death ofhis Son, Rom,\. 10. Not pardoned only, but ac¬cepted from a flate of enmity, feftored to a ftate offavour, even that favour which is better than life,Pfalm Ixiii. 4.— A privilege of fuch fuperlative ex¬cellency, that it was celebrated in the hymns ofangels. < When the heavenly hoft uttered a fongithis was the fubje<51: of their harmonious joy J Glorybe to God in the highejl • and on earth peace ; good¬will towards men, Luke ji. 14. “ By the birth ofthis wonderful child, and the death he fhall fuf-tain, peace is made between heaven and earth.“ And not peace only, but a divine friendfhip J com-meqces. God regards the poor apoftate race of“ men,J There feems to be a beautiful gradation in this an¬gelic hymn. Good-will is more expreffive, and denotesa richer blefling than Peace.—The original EuJWm, is aword of the mofl amiable and noble meaning. Itfignf-fies a very high efteerti, and a very tender benevolence.By a word of the fame import, the Almighty Father ex-preffes his infinite fatisfa&ion, in the perfon and under¬taking of his beloved Son; Matth. iii. 17.the Chriflian's . Glory. 7^ men, not only without indignation, but with“ complacency aqd delight. He rejoices over them,to do them good, Deut. xxviii. 63 |j.Another benefit is holinefs: Or, if you pleafethe true the Chriftian morafity.^—Let none think,hhe believer in Jefus difparages true morality. Trueittnorality is the image of the bleflfed God. It isijinofl: charmingly delineated throughout the wholeijBible. It is the beginning of heaven in the humanfoul. And its proper origin is from the crofs ofiour divine Mafter. For, through the merits ofinis death, fipners are made partakers of the holySpirit; who rites upon their hearts, and makeslegible in their converfation, what was antientlyivrirten upon the mitre of the high-prieft,mess jo the Lojtd.—And oh! what a motiveIs the crofs of Chriff to the exercifeof every virtue iI He died; my L^fd, my Judge, my King, died)jlo redeem me from all iniquity, and make me zea¬lous of good works.’ How powerfully, far beyond{jny naked infiruftions, or abftradf reafonings, doSuch confiderations invite us—urge us—conftrainIs, to renounce all ungodlinefs, and adorn the go-1,jjel of God our Saviour § ! 2 Cor. v. *4.Ano-Would my reader have the'bvelieft paraphrafe onpaffage ; Or fee the adtings of this divine coippla-:ncy, deferibed with inimitable delicacy ? Let him at-nd to the prophet Zephaniah : 7be Cord thy 'God, inidfi of tfcee, is mighty. He will fave : He will re-over thee with joy : He will reft in his love : He'll joy over thee with fnging, chap. iii. 17.§ Religion ! Thou the foul of happinefs;And groaning Calvary, of Thee ! There fhineThe nobleft truths; there ftrongeft motives (ling!There, faCred violence affafelts the foul;There, nothing but compulfion is forborn.Night Thoughts % N. a3The Croft of ChriflAnother bleffing is, viftory over death.—Tillalfo is the fruit of that once deteUed, but now evebeloved tree. For thus it is written; That throng,death he might defray him who had the power odeath, that is, the devil; and deliver them whthrough fear of death, were a.11 their life-time fuhjetto bondage, Heb. ii. 14, 15. The devil is laid thave the power of death; becaufe, by temptinjtoo fuccefsfully, onr firft parents, he brought deatInto the world; becaufe, by tempting their poftejrity to fin, and too often prevailing, he arrays deat jin horror; he arms death with its'fting. BiChrift, by expiating our gjuilt, has difarmed th:lafl: enemy; has taken awaj^ifs fting; and madenot lofs but gain to die, Phil, i. 21.—The gatand the healthy, know not how to form an eftimaiiof this deliverance Nor can any words of mirdefcribe it, with proper energy. Go to dying bed:there you will learn its true worth. Afk fome ag<nizipg friend; he, and he alone, can tell you, wh.a bleiTing it is, to have the king of terrors convered into a meflenger of peace.One bleffing more I would mention, and earnel Ily wiftt it, in due time, to all my hearers; An e.trance into heaven. This too is the produce of 01Redeemer’s crofs.—St. John faw a bright aftembof happy beings, clothed with white robes, aipalms in their hands: rejoicing before the throiof God. Thefe, faid one of the venerable efdeiare they who came out of great tribulation, and hawafbed their robes, and made them white in the blcof the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throrRev. vii. 9, 14, 15. They came out of gretribulation: They fuffered, it is probable, in tfervice of Chrift. Perhaps they laid down th>lives for his fake. But this was not their pafTp<into the regions of blifs They wafhed their ro>the Chr{/Han's Glory. 9in the hhodqf the Lamb : They had applied to theirown fouls, the merits afad atonement of the crucifi¬ed Jefus. By this means, they were prefented with¬out fpot and blamelefs. Qn this account, they wereAdmitted to fee the king of heaven in his beauty,J/a. xxxiii. 17. and to be ever, ever, with the Lord.Since then the crofsof Chrift, was demonftrativeof fuch ftupenduous love-, iince it is productive ofbenefits, innumerable, invaluable, and eternal;was there not a caufe, for the apoftle to glory onthis behalf? Nay, might not the very ftoneshave cried out, to reproach him with infenfibiiityand ingratitude, if he had neglefted to glory in thecrofs of Chrift ?—And fince this lave was fiiewed;thefe benefits were procured; not for him only, butfor us, and for all generations: does not this affordme an opportunity, of applying thedoftrine to eachparticular hearer ?1. Let me addrefs, or rather let me congratulate,my brethren in the nfiniftry Though you cannotcontroul the laws of nature; though you cannotfee into the fecrets of futurity; you have the famecaufe of glorying, with the very chiefeft of the a-poftles, A caufe of glorying, which that holy manof Gad efteemed, far above all fuch miraculous abi¬lities. You have the crofs of Chrift,For your fludy, as men :For your hope, as Chrijlians:For your preaching, as miniflers.For youxjludy, as men. Here the reafoning fa¬culties may exert themfelves, with everlafting im¬provement, and everlafing delight.—Here, we con¬template the wonders, the unparalleled wonders ofa God made man: dying, as a pattern of patience:as a martyr for truth ; as an all-perfeft facHficc forfin. Here the Lord Jehovah hath fully granted,yrhat his femntMofes foearneftly requeued, Exod.xxxiii. 18.io The Crofs of Chrijl 'xxxiii. t8. He hath made all hjs glory to pafsbefore the aftonifhed eyes of angels, and of men.• ■ - Here jujlice has fet her moft awful terrors inarray, even while goodnefs appears, with inexpref-iible lovelinefs, and the moft attra&ive beauty.Here, truth, more unfhaken than a rock, takes herimmoveable ftand; and mercy, tenderer than themother’s tear, yearns with bowels of everlaftingpity.-^ la a word ; the crofs of Chrift is a con¬spicuous theatre, on which all the divine perfec¬tions unite, and harmonize, and Ihine forth withtranfcendent luflre.As Chrijlians, we have, it? the crofs of Chrift,the richeft provifion for our fpiritual wants. Thisis a foundation of the fublimeft hope, and a foun¬tain of the moft exuberanty<y/.. This affords mat¬ter for the deepeft humility, and yields fuel for themoft flaming love. Faith in cur crucified Jefiis, isan ever-aftive principle of the moftchearful anffex-a<ft obedience: is an ample and inexhauftible maga¬zine, from which we may fetch arms to conquer;abfolutely conquer, the allurements of the world,the folicitations of the flefti, and the temptations ofthe devil. By this, a way is opened for us untothe holy of holies; and what may we not ventureto alk, what may we not venture to receive, whohave the blood of the everlafting covenant to plead,in all our approaches to the throne of grace ? Having, therefore, fuch an High-prieft ; having inhis crofs, unfeafchable riches ; Who lhall make ourglorying void ? What Ihall hinder us from rejoicing iand faying, “ Blcffed be God, for thefe opening“ beauties of fpring ! Bleffed be God, for the ex-tf petted fruits of autumn ! Blefled be God, for ten“ thoufand thoufand gifts of bis indulgent provi-tc dence! But, above'all, Bleffed be God, for the“ crofs of Chrift !”Asthe'Chrijlian'? Glory. iiAs mirnjlep, of the gofpcl, we are not left to. fet! before our hearers, ;• fvftem of refined Heathenifnr;Ior to entertain them with cold, fpiritlefs kdfures ofvirtue. No;’’we have the infinitely tender love,the immenfely free grace, of the bleeding, dyingImmanuel, todifphy —to improve ~ to enforce.And is there a topic in the whole compafs of ora¬tory ; is there an argument, amidft all the {loresof reafon, fo’admirably calculated to touch the fineftmovements of the foul ? To ftrike all the inmoifi:fpriqgs of affion, frith the mofi: perfuafive, themoft commending energy ? Would we alarm'Xhkfiipirte, or intimidate theprefumptums ? We maycall them to bbhol'd God's own Son, weltering iu' blood; God’s own Sop; 'transfixed with the arrowsof jufiice. We may bid them donfider, if judgmentbegins with the immaculate Mediator, where (hall1 the irreclaimableTinner appear ? How will he efcapethe ftroke, how bear the weight, of God’s everlaft-ing vengeance ?—Would we comfort the diflrefled ?We may point them to an atonement, whofe meritsare infinite, and able to fave to the very uttermoft,Jleb.yvt. 25. We may" lead them to a righteouf-nefs, whofe efficacy is unbounded, and Tufficient tojuftify the ungodly. ' And what balm can be fofovereign, for a wounded yonfcience ? -Are weto fupport the weak, and animate the doubting ?Here, we may fhew them promifes; free promifes f;exceeding great and precious promifes; ratified bythe oath of Jehovah, and fealed by the blood of hisSon. And what cordials can be fo reftorative, tothe drooping Chriftlau ?Inf To man the bleeding crofs has promifed all:The bleeding crols has fworn eternal grace :Who gave his life, what grace will he deny ?Night Thoughts, N. 4.12 The Crofs of ChrijiIn fliort; the doftrine of the crofs, is Anted toanfwer all the great ends of oyr miniftry, and pro¬mote all the truly valuable interefts of our people.By this, the holy Spirit delights to work. Andthis, O Satan, ke thy plague: This O An,{hall be thy dejlruftion, Hof. xiii. 14. However,therefore, the crofs might be to the Jews a ftum-bling-block, and to the Greeks foolifiinefs; Godforbid, that -we fliould glory in any thing elfe !—Let this be the Alpha and Omega, the beginningand ending*, of all our public miniftrations. Let us leave a favour of this knowledge, which isfar better than precious ointment, in every privatecompany.—Let it appear, from all our conversation;That the affeftions of our heart, and the laboursof our life, are devoted, wholly devoted, to ouradored Redeemer’s cxofe.—Happy the people, whoare under the care of fuch minifters! and bleffei thq^minijlers, who walk according to this rule.II. Let me exhort all true believers. Thofewho are vile in their own eyes, and to whom Chriftalone is precious.—Remember, brethren, what iswritten.40 the Prophet: It is a defcripcion of yourftate: It is a dire&ion for your conduct, latheLord, the Lord Jefus Chrift, Jhail all the feed of Ifrael,* The Author, who could write the fpirited andweighty lines which follow, mull doubtlefs have thisconvidtion deep on his heart: Thou, my All !My theme ’• my infpiration ! and my crown IMy ftrength in age! my rife in low eftate!My foul’s ambition, pleafure, wealth!—my world !My light in darknefs ! and my life in death !My boaft through time ! blifs through eternity !My facrifice! my God! What things are thefe !JVlgbt Thoughts, N, 4.the Cbrtjlian's Glory. 13trael bejuflified, and in him Jhall they glory, Ifa. xlv,■25-Let none fay, that reJigion is a gloomy or un¬comfortable ftate: I call upon you, this day to re-Ijoice.—Let none fay, that religion is a mean ordefpicable thing: I call upon you, this day, toglory.And have the divine authority for both. — Youwill diihonour the blefled Jefus; you will difparagehis furpaffing excellency; if you do not confide inhim, and make your boaft of him.—Ghrift is King«f heaven ; Chrift is judge of the world ; Chrill isGod over all. And of fuch a Saviour (hall we notglory ? Yes, verily: And in all circumftances, andon every occafion.Amidft your manifold infirmities, glory in Chrift.For, though he was crucified in weaknefs, he hathall power in heaven and earth. And it is written! before him; it is one of his immutable decrees; SinJhall not have dominion over you, Rom. vi. 14. Amidft your various failings, glory in Chrift. For,I his righteoufnefs covers all your imperfeftions; his11 righteoufnefs fecures you from wrath and condem¬nation : and, though deficient in yourfelves, youare complete in him. Col. ii. 10.—Under the pref-fure of tribulations, lift up your heads, and gloryin the crofs. Becaufe the captain of your Salvation,was made perfect through fufferings. If you fufferwith him, you fhall alfo reign with him. And thefufFerings of this prefent time, are not worthy tobe compared with the happinefs, which Chrift haspurchafed with his agonies, and will quickly beftowon his people.-—When death approaches; death,that cuts off the Spirit of Princes, and is terrible a-mong the Kings of the earth ; do you ftill glory inthe crofs. Adhering to this banner, you may boldlyfay; 0 death "where is thy Jltng ? 0grave "where is thyviSlory ? 1C0r.xv.55. When that great, tremendous14 The Crofs of Chrijiday lhall come, which puts an end to time and ter-reftrial things; when that awful, that majeftic voice,is heard, which commands all the race of Adam toappear at the bat; then, my dear brethren in Chrift,then alfo {hall^cw glory in the erofs. When others,in an agony of terror, call upon the rocks to fall onthem, and mountains to overwhelm them ; Thistliall be youfr fedate appeal; rather this fhall beyourheroic challenge Jhallfay any thing to the chargeof God’s eka i It, is Cod that jifiificth. Who is hethat condemneth ? It is Chriji that died, Rom, viiL |33, 34.—Then lhall you enter the harbour of eter¬nal reft; not like.a ihipwreck’d mariner, cleavingto fome broken plank, and hardly efcaping the rag¬ing waves; bot like fome ftately veflel, with all herfails expanded, and riding before a profperous galef.III. Let me caution thefelf-rightecus. Thofe,who more frequently think of their own piety thanof Chrift’s obedience; arc more apt to cry out Withthe Pharifee, I am no extortioner, no adulterer;than to confefs with the publican, God be mercifultome a /inner.-*—What lhall I fay tq thefe perfons ?Let me not be thought cenforious, when my onlyaim is to be faithful. Beware, I befetch you beware,left you build for eternity, not on a rock, but onthe /and. However you may appear in your ownfight; before the adorable majefty of the everlaftingGod, before the confummate perfection of his holy;law, you are lefs than nothing; you are worlejthan nothing. You are, indeed you are, deficiency;and fin. Renounce, therefore, renounce ail depen¬dencef A fhip wafted into the port, under the full influ¬ence of wind and tide, feems to afford the fineft repre*fentation of a large, a rich, an abundant entrance;2 Pet. i. ix. *the Chrlftiari’s Gldry. 15rfence on felf. Truft no longer in a refuge of lies:Left all your admired attainments, at the day of fi¬nal retribution, be like ftraw, and hay, and ftubblein Nebuchadnezzar’s burning fiery furnace.-—Imi¬tate the blefled penman of my text. Are you blame-lefs in your external carriage ? So was he. Are youexemplary in many points ? So was he. Yet all thisrighteoufnefs he accounted but dung, for the excel¬lency of the knotvfedge cf ChriJl Jefus his Lord, Phil.iii. 8.- Be this your pattern. Write emptinefsupon your own duties; emptinefs upon your ownworks; and you (hall be filled with all the fulnefsof (God your Saviour. Every other caufe of glory¬ing will be like the morning cloud, or the early dewwhich pafleth away, Hof. vi. 5. But this caufe ofglorying, willJland faft' for evermore as the moon,and as the faithful -witnefs in heaven, Pfaim. Ixxxix.36-Can I conclude, without adding a word of admo¬nition to the wicked ? Thofe I mean, who are ene-rtties tothecrofs of Chrift; whomind earthly things;but neither hunger nor thirft after righteoufnefs. My foul remembers the wormwood and thegall of fuch a ftate; and cannot but tenderly pitythefe unhappy people.- Alas ! my friends, whathiye you to glory in ? The devil and his angels ex-peft, erelong, to glory in your deftruflion. Thofemalignant fiends are eying you, as their prey, andare impatient to begin your torment. Great inex-preffibly great, is your danger. The Lord Almigh¬ty open your eyes todifeernit l—Neverthelefs yourcafe is not defperate. You may yet be delivered,as a bird out of the fnare of the fouler. Look untothe crucified Jefus. Why does he hang on thatbloody tree ? Why are his hands pierced with iron ?Why is his body racked with pain ? Why his hearttorn with anguilh; It is for you, fianers for you.That16 The Crofs of Chriji, $c.That blood is poured out, to cleanfe you from guilr,Thofe wounds are fuftained, to heal your confid¬ences. That anguilh is endured, to obtain reft foryour fouls. In that mangled body dwells all thefulnefs of the Godhead, Col. U. 9. Great, beyondimagination great, is the merit of thofe fuffei ings.Why then, O ! why will you die ? Why will youperifti for ever; who have au all-fufficient propitia¬tion in the crofs of Chrift l Fly to this fanftuary.Fly, before it be too late. Fly without a moment’sdelay. ’Tis an inviolable fanfluary. None everperiftied, that fled by faith to the compaflionate, thedivinely compaflionate Redeemer.—His death (hallbe a full fatisfaflion for your iniquities. A fenfe ofhis immenfely rich goodnefs fh'all win your affeflions; •fttall incline (what all the threatnings of damnatidncould never eflefl), lhall incline you, to lothe yourfins, and to love his fervice; fhall fraooth your path,and expedite your progrefs, to the regions of im¬mortal honour and joy.Having now, with great plainnefs of fpeech, ad-drefled my brethren in the miniftry ; having exhort¬ed believers: cautioned the /elf-righteous i andwarned the wicked: let me commend the whole toyour ferious redolleflion, and to God’s graciousbenediflion. And, “ O Lord moft holy* O*e God moft mighty! O holy and merciful Saviour l*' by thine agony and bloody fweat—by thy crofs |*< and palIion,’—let not the word, now fpokenj bein vain in the Lord! Jmen, and dmer.-FINIS.