T H £ENGLISH LADY’SCOMPLETECATECHISM.SETTING FORTHThe Pride and Vanity of theENGLISH QUALITY, in re¬lieving Foreigners before their owsiCouutr}’ Folks.Stirling, Printed in this Prefect Year*( 2 )THEENGLISH LADY’SCOMPLETEC A T E C H I S M.Quell:. OU fay, Madam, you wasbrought up in the Chriftiaareligion : Pray of what nation are you ?A. I am an Englilh Lady by birth.Q. Pray what is your name ?ATV VNITY.Who gave you this name ?A. Every body.Who were your godfathers andgodmothers ?A. The Mercer, Laceman, Semftrefs,aand Milliner.Who confirm’d you ?A. Madamoifelle, the French mantua-maker.WhatTHE -ENGLISH LADy’s, £sV. 3Q. What is yo\;r form of devotion ?A. c'X yardo exl!aorclinary furbe-low’d r.p to the pockets, and threeguineas for making.Q Why will you give a French wo¬man three guineas, when an Englifhwoman would do it for one, as well, ifnot bettei ?A. Only for the name of having itmade by a French woman, that whenI am afked by another Lady of quality.Who made my mantua ? i may fay, in.a French tone, Madamoifelle the Frenchmantua-maker.■ Q. How was you educate ?A. At a French boarding-lchool.After what manner ?A. By the help of a French dancing-mailer, a French iinging-maller, and aFrench waiting-woman.Let me hear you proceed ?A. Before I could (peak Englifh, I wastaught to jabber French : In ihort, Idanced French dances at eight, fangFrench fongs at eleven, and before £1 was fifteen, could talk nothing elfe butFrench.Let me hear you go on till you.come to twentyA. At4 THE ENGLISH LADy’sA. Aj; fixteen I began to think of aman ; at feventeen I loved a man ; ateighteen I figh’d for a man ; at nine¬teen ( fent for a man ; and at twenty Iran away with a man.How do you employ yonr timenow ?A. I ly in bed till noon, drefs all theafternoon, dine in the evening, and playat cards till midnight.How do you fpend t!*e SaJabath ?A. In chit-chat.What do you talk of?A. New fafhions and new plays.How often do you go to church ?A. Twice a year, or oftener, as myhufband gives me new clothes.Why do you go to church whenyou have new clothes ?A To be admired by the men, tofee other folks finery, and to (how myown ; and to laugh at thofe fcurvy outof faihion creatures who come therefor devotion.Pray, Madam, what books do youread ?A. I read Plays and Romances.What fort of people do you con-Yfrie with ?A. ThofeCOMPLETE CATECHISM.A. Thofe like myfelf, wlio makepride and pleafure their devotion : newfailtions their daily prayers, langh atall below them, and deny thofe abovetherruWhat it you love ?A. Myfelf.Q. What! no body elfe ?A. Yes; my Monkey, my Lap-dog,and my Page.Q. Why do you love them ?»A. Why, becaufc I am an EnglilhLady, and they are foreign creatures,my Monkey from the halt Indies, myPage from Genoa, and my Lap-dogfrom Vigo.Would they not have pleafedyou as well if they had been Eng-lilh?A. No; 1 hate every thing that OldEngland brings forth, except it be thetemper of an Englilii hulband, -and theliberty of an Engtilh wife, I love Frenchbread, French wines, French fusees,and French cooks ; in fhort, I have allabout me either French or Foreign^from my waiting-maid to my parrot,only my ileward.Qb, Why6THE ENGLISH LADyVQ: Why would you have your fiew-arti iingliih, and all the reli of yourfervanu Foreigners ?A. Beeaufe i would be cheated inmy own language ; I would have myfootman a Frenchman, mv butler anItalian, .my porter a Dutchman, andmy coachman a Spaniard ; then for myfurniture, I would have nothing Eng-Ufli from my bed to my chamber-pot,and was I forced to eat Enghlh provi-fions, they fhould come from Cornwall,Berwick upon Tweed, or fonie otherremote place,Q, How do you bellow your cha¬rity ?A. On fuperannuatcd Ladies, and theFrench Whores, whole pride and va¬nity have brought them to poverty ;and yet retain fo much of the frenchmodes, that to the lad: you may feethem in an old tattered filk gown, highhead, and draggled tail, a pair of lacedfnoes, an old furbelow’d fcarf, andnever a fmock on : and thefe the) willhave, if they dine on fcraps for a fort-pight.Q_ Vvdiat do the poor get at yourdoor ?A, No-COMPLETE CATECHISM.7A. Nothing.How do you anfwer them ?A. In. thefe diclares of charity, Theymud go to their own pariihes ; antilbmetisa.es they give me the trouble tofend for the beadle to carry them hi-JthenThen, Madam, flnce you are foreligious and charitable, how do youcarry yourfelf towards your neigh¬bours ?A. Sir, I fcorn my poor neighbours,and backbite the rich. The rich Iinvite to dinner becaufe they do notwant it, and I deny the poor becaufethey do.CL How do you govern your fa¬mily ?A. As other Ladies do. I love gaine-ing, arid therefore tolerate it amongmy fervants, for the fame real on Ileave them to their own licentious ap¬petites, to fwear, curfe, riot, drink,and do what they ple.ife. I give thema great deal of liberty and little wages.And if my ftcward happens to get myhoufe-keeper with child, I make mycoachman marry her j turn away myfootman for afpiring to my maid, andhen8 THE ENGLISH LADy’s, fcfoher I marry to my Lord’s chamberlain,and gives her fix changes of mv oldclothes for her dowry ; and fometfinesI fancy the butler, bccaufe he is hand-ibraer than my own hufband.Honv often do you call your fa¬mily to prayers ?A. I never call my family to pray¬ers, but I fend them to church fome-times ; and that is, when I am aboutto cuckold my hufband at home, thatI may do it in private ; and my fer-vants are glad of the opportunity. Butif they never go near the church, I ampleafed with any excufe, and don’t carewhere they go.Q. Pray how do you pay your debts ?A. Some with money, and fiomewith fair promifes. I feldom pay anybody’s bills, but I run more in theirdebt. I give poor tradefmen ill words,and the rich I treat civily, in hopes toget farther into their debt.FINIS.