THE ANCIENT AND MODERNHISTORY JfuMBUCKHAYENINFIFE-SHIRE.Wherein is containedThe Exploits of Wise Willy, in the Brae,the noted Saying of Witty Efpie, the Ale-wife, and a Description of their College.By MERRY ANDREW, at Taintallon.- ■ " ‘ T v ■PaiNTED BY W. JiACNIE,| Where u always kept on Sale, a choice and extonsm Assort-meat of Histones, Songs, Children’s Story Book*,School Books, fee*-, fcc.History of Buckhaven.Amongst several ancient records, this Buck-haven is not mentioned. There was a set call¬ed Buccaniers, who were pirates, that is tosay, sea-robbers; and, after a strict search wasmade for them, they dispersed: what of themescaped justice in the southern climate, are saidto have sheltered at or near Berwick-upon-Twrecd. After a very smart battle amongthemselves, they divided; and, it is said, theparty who gained the Bucky-battle, fearingthe English law to take place, set northward,-and took up their residence at this Buckhaven,so called not only from the great quantity ofbuckies that are found in ard about that place,but .on account of the battle they had w ith theirneighbours at Berwick, v'hen they divided,which was then called bucking one another,but is now named boxing or fighting. Anotherparty of these Buekers settled in another townnorthward of Banff, called Bucky,near the riverSpey, which is a large sea-town. But amongall the sea-towns in Scotland, the fishers stillretain a language quite different from thepeople in tlie country ; and they almost all shiftthe letter H, and use O instead thereof, whichno people in Scotland do but themselves.-—There is a corruption of speech in almost everycounty over Britain, and likewise they usedifferent tones and ways of pronuncing w'ords3from others; even some in the south of Scot¬land can hardly be understood by those in thenorth, though both pretend to speak English,and have a liberal part of education. But sincelearning is now so easy to be obtained, ignoranceand corruption of speech are greatly decreased,i In the county of Fife, on the sea-cost, there! stands a little town,inhabited by few but fishers,called Bucky-harbour, because of the sea-buekies and shells to be found in plenty on thei rocks in and about that place. There is littlemention made of this town by historians, toknow its original extraction and antiquities,but in their burgess ticket, part of which wasperfect truths, but more of it by way of lam¬poon ; tide ticket was dated the two-and-thirtyday of the vnonth of Julius Czesar; their coat!of arms was two hands gripping each otherover a scale's rumple'; their oath was, “ Foul-fa-me an I binna an honest man to you, anthe same fa vou, an ye binna the like to me.”An article of good neighbourhood they had,that whoever was first up in the morning, wasto raise all the rest to go to sea; but if a badImorning, they pissed and lay down again tillIbreak of day ; then raise Wise Willy," who couldJudge of the weather by th» blowing of thewind.4Their freedoms were to take all kinds of fishcontained in their Ticket, viz., lobsters, par-tons, podles, spout-fish, sea-cats, sea-dogs,flukes,pikes, dike-paddocks, and p—k fish.Among these people were said to be, oneTom and his two sons, who were fishers onthe coast of Norway, and in a violent stormwere blown over, and got ashore at Bucky-har-bour, where they settled, and the whole of hischildren were called Thomsons; this is a histo¬rical saying, handed down from one generationto another. So in course of time they grew,■up and multiplied, that they soon became alittle town by themselves; few of any othername dwelt among them. They kept but lit¬tle communication with the country people, fora farmer in those days, thought his daughtercast away, if she married one of the fishers inBucky-harbour, and Witty Eppie the ale-wife,wad a sworn be-go-laddie, I wad rather see myboat and a’ my three sons dadet against theBass* or 1 saw otiy ane o’ them married on aBiuck-a-byre’s daughter, a y/heen useless tau-pies, that can do naething but rive at a tow-rock, and cut coni ; they can neither bait a5ahook, nof red a line, hook sandeels, nor gatherperiwincles.Now Wise Willy and Witty Eppie the ale-wife lived there, about an hundred years ago.Eppie’s chamber was their College and Court¬house, where they dicided their controveries,i and explained their wonders ! for the houseivras wide like a little kirk ; had four windowsiand a gavel-door. The wives got leave toIfljte their fill, but fighting was forbidden (asEppie said, up-hand was fair play.) Their!fines were a’ in pints o’ ale, and Eppie sold itI at a plack the pint. They had neither minis-| ter nor magistrate, nor yet a burly-bailie, to(brag them wr his tolbooth. My Lord was!their landlord, Wise Willy and Witty Eppie,Ithe ale-wife, were the rulers of the town.Now Eppie had a daughter called Lingle-ttail’d Nancy, because of her feckless growth;her waist was like a twitter, had nae curpenfor a creel, being Embruch bred, and broughtup wi’ her Lowdin aunty ; was learned to read,and sew, make corse claiths and calico mutches,there wasna a scholar in the town but hersel.She read the Bible, and the book cf Kirk-sangs,which was newly come in fashion. Willy and6Eppie tell’d ay what it meant, and said a’ theletters in it was lilted by my Lord, for theysaw him hae a feather, that, hc-dipped in blackwater, and made crooked scores just like thesame, and then he spake to it o’er again, andit tell'd him what to say.It happened on a day, that two of theirwives found a horse-shoe near the town ; theybrought it hame, and sent for Wise Willie tosee what it was. Willy comes and looks at it,Indeed, co’ Willy, it’s a ‘thing and holes in’t.Then, said they, we kend he would get a nametill’t. Aha, co' Willy, but whar did ye findit? Anaith my Lord’s ain house, Willy.Adeed, said Willy, it’s the auld moon, I kenby the holes in’t, for nailing it to the lift. ButI wonder it she fell in Life, for the last time Isav/ her she was hinging on her back aboonEmbruch. A hech, co’ Willy, we’ll hae herset up on the highest house in the town, an’we’ll hae moon light o’ our ain a’ the days o’the year. The whole town ran to see themoon. Hout, tout, cried Witty Eppie, ye’rea fools thegither, it is but ajie o’ tilings it myLord’s mare wears upo’ her lufe.-7. At another time, one of the wives found ahare with its legs broken, lying among her kailin the yard; she, not knowing what it was,called out her neighbours to see it: some saidit was some gentleman’s cat, or my lady’s lap-dog, or a sheep’s young kitlen, because it hadsaft horns. Na, na, cried Wise Willy, it’s aneo’ the maukens, that gentlemen’s dogs worries.What will ye do wi’t ? Haith, co’ Maggy, I’llsinge the woo aflTt, and make fish and sauce o’tto my Tammy’s parrich. No, no, said Witty, Eppie, better gie’t to my Lord, and he’ll staphis iron stick thro’ the guts o’t, and gar’t rinround afore the fire till be roasted. Na, na,said Wise Willy, we’ll no do that indeed, formy Lord wad mak us a’ dogs, and gar us rin'thro’ the kintry seeking maukins till him.It happened on a dark winter morning, thattwo of their wives ’were going to Dysart toI sell their fish, and near the road-side there was ,: a. Tinkler’s ass teddeved; the poor ass seeingthe wives coming fell a-crying, and the wivesbeing frightened, threw their fish away, and ranhome, crying they had seen the de'il, which setthe whole town in an uproar! and were goingwith spades and picks, to hag him a’ in pieces,or catch him in a net, and then burn min.—Na, na, co’ Wise Willy, the kintry he comes frae9is a'liet coal.-, lie’ll never burn; we’ll go tohim in a civil manner, and see what he wants.Get out Ej;]>ie, the ale-wife, and lingle-tail’dNancy, wi' ibe Bible and the Saum-book. Soaff they came,in a crowd, either to kill the de’ilor catch bin; alive; and as they came near theplace, the ass fell s crying, which caused manyof them to faint and run back. Na, na, co'Willy, that’s no the deil’s words ava, it’s myLiord’s trurn],'ter routing on his brass whistle.Willy ventured till he saw the ass’s twa lugs ;Now, cried Willy back to the rest, come for¬ward and hand him fast, I see his twa horns !Hech sirs ! he has a white heard, like an auldbeggar man. So they enclosed the poor ass onall sides, thinking it was the de’il. But whenw ise Willy saw he had nae cloven feet, he criedout, Fearna lads, this is no the de’il it’s someliving beast ; ’tis neither a cow nor a horse.—And what is it then, Willy ? Indeed, co’ Willy,’tis the father o’ the maukens, I ken be its lugs.Some may say, this is too satirical a history,but it is according to the knowledge of thosetimes. But this Buckhaven, which was oncenoted for droll exploits, is now become moreknowing, and is a place said to produce the bestand hardiest watermen or sailors of any townon the Scots coast, yet many of the old peoplein it, still retain the old tincture of their oldand uncultivated speech, as be-go laddie, alsoa fiery nature; if you ask any of the wives wheretheir College stands, they'll tell you, if yournose were in their a—, your mouth would beat the door of it.Now it happened, when Wise W'illy turnedold, he took a great swelling in his wame, andtasting up o’ his kail, collops and cauld fish, thatnothing staid on his stomach; and astoutstomachhad he, for crab-heads, or scate-brose, or fatbrose on a bridal-morning ; yet it fail’d him :he fell sick, and none could cure him, or tellwhat ail’d him, till a mountebank stage-doctorcame to Kirkcaldy, that could judge by people’swater the troubles of their person ; and Willyhearing of his fame, pissed into a bottle, andsent it away with his daughter. The bottlebeing uncorked, hisdaughter spilt it by the way,and to conceal her sloth in so doing, pissed in itherself, and on she goes ; and when she came tothe stage, she cried out. Sir Dochter, Sir Doch-ter, here is a bottle o’ my father’s wash, he hassair guts, never needs to d—te ony, he spuesa’ he eats; ’tis true 1 tell you my dow. Thedoctor looks at it, and says. It is not your father’s,surely it is your mother’s. The deil’s i’ theman, co’she, divna I ken my father by my mither ?Then, said he, he is with child. The deil‘si‘ the man, eo‘ she, for my mither bare a‘ debairns before; dats no true sir, fegs ye‘re agreat lier. Home she came, and tell‘d Willy,I her father, that the doctor said he was wi‘ bairn.O waes me, co‘ Willy, for I hae muckle wame,| and I fear it‘so‘er true. O plague on you, Janet,for ye‘re the father o‘t, and I'm sure to die in.the bearing o't. Witty Eppie was sent for,as she was the houdy, and fand a' Willy‘s wame,to be sure about it. Indeed, co‘ Eppie, ya'rethe first man e'er I saw wi‘ bairn before ; andhow you'll bear it I dinna ken, ye hae a wallywame weel I wat, but how men bear bairns Ikena; I wou'd drink sa't water, and drown't inmy guts, for an men get ancs the gate o‘ bearingweans themsells, they'll seek nae mae wives.10So Willy drank sea-water till bis guts was |like to rive,»and .out he goes to ease himself |among the kail; when?, letting a loud fart, up |starts a mauken behind him, thinking she wasshot! Willy seeing her jump over the dyke,thought it was a child brought forth, and cried,Como back, my dear, and bo christened, andno rin to the bills and be a Pagan. So Willygrew better every day thereafter, being broughtto bed in the kailyard. But his daughter wasbrought to bed some months thereafter, whichwas the cause of the doctor’s mistake.PART II.Now Wise Willy had a daughter, called Ro-liching Jenny, because she spoke thick, sixwords at three times, half sense and half non¬sense ; as her own words and actions will bearwitness. $he being with child, was deliveredof a bonny lass bairn; and a’ the wives in thetown cried, Be-go-laddie, it's just like its amdaddy, lang' Sandy 'Bason, (or Thomson,) weken by its nose ; for Sandy had a great mucklered nose like a lobster’s tae, bowed at the pqintJike a hawk’s neb; and Sandy himself said, thatit was surely bis or some ither body’s, but hehad used a’ his birr at the getting o’t, to sayhis ability, being the first time e’er he was a|sic a business before; and win n he had done athat mancoulddoat it, said it was nonsense; andshame fa’ him, but he wad rather row his boatround the Bass and back again, or he did thelike again: For "Wise Willy gadewood at thewean, and said, it had mair ill nature ink, northe auldest wife about the town; it piss’d thebed, and shit the bed, it skirl’d like a will-cat,and kept-him frae his night’s rest ; and a’ thean Id haggs about the town, ca’d him Sandy,' the bairn’s daddy. And, after a’, the bleir-ein’dI bellman came and summoned him and her be¬fore the bally band, a court that is held in thekirk on Saturday morning. But Wise WillyI had pity upon them, and gade wi’ them to thej kirk-court, what learned folks ca’ the session,Jenny was first called upon, and in she goes,!' where all the baiiy band were conveened, wi’their white-headed staves, and their hoddin-grey jockey-coats about them.Mess John says, Come away, Janet, we’rea’ waiting on ye here.Min.—Now, Janet, where was this childi gotten ? You must tell plainly.Jan.—A-deed, stir, it was gotten amang the1 black stanes, at the cheek o’ the crab-holes.Mess John stares at her, not knowing the• place, but some elders did. Then said he, OJanet the de’ii was busy with you at that time.Jan.—-A by my figs, stir, that’s a great lie1 ye’re tellin’ now, for the de’ii wasna thereabout,4 it I saw, nor nae ither body, to bid us do onything; we lo’ed ither unco weel for a lang timebefore that, and syne we tel I'd ither, andgreed to marry ither, like ither honest folk;mightna we then learn to do the thing marriedfolk does, without the de’ii helping us ?Whist, whist, cried they, you’re speakingvery undiscreetly before the session,iuJan.—The de’ll’s in the carles, for you andjTour ministers are liars, when ye say it de de’ilwas helping Sandy and me to get de bairn.Come, come, said they, pay down the kirk-dues, and come back to the stool the morn,four pound, and a groat to the bellman.Jan.—The auld thief speed the dearth o’t stir,for less might sair you and your bellman baith.O this but be a hard warld indeed, when poorhonest fouk maun pay for making use o’ their ain«—*■< Ye misca ay de poor de’il ahint his back,and gie him de wyte o’ a’ de ill it’s done in thekintry, bastard bairns and every thing, but yemay thank the de’il for that good four poundand de groat I hae gi’en you, that gars yourpotsboil brown, and get jockey-coats, purl-hand¬ed sarks, and white-headed staves, when my fa¬ther’s not wallops up rough bear and blue water.The woman’s mad, said they, for this money Iis a’ given to the poor of the parish.Jan.—The poor o’ the parish ! said ye ? ficnthae’t ye gie them but wee pickles o’ pease-meal ; didna I see't in their pocks ! And theminister’s wife gi’es naething ava to unco beg¬gars, but bids them ganghame to their ain parish,an’ yet ye’ll tak siller frae poor fouks, for nae¬thing but playing the loon a wee or they he j|married, and syne cocks them up to be lookedon and laught at by every body ; a dc’il speedyou and your justice stir. Hute, tute, ye area’ coming on me now, like a wheen colly dogshunting awa a poor ragged chapman frae thedoor, and out she comes cursing and groeliing.Sandy’s next called upon, and in he goes.Min.—Now Saunders, ye maun tell us howthis child was gotten P13San.—A wow, Mess John stir, ye hae bairnso’ your ain, how did you get them ? But yoursare a’ laddies, and mine is but a lassie, if you’lltell me how you got your laddies, I'll tell youhow I got my lassie, and then we’ll be baithalike good o’ the business.The minister looks at him, hutc, tute, Saun¬ders, lay down four pound and a groat, andcome hack to-morrow to the stool, and give sa¬tisfaction to the congregation; you had moreneed to be seeking repentance for that abomin¬able sin of uncleanness, than speaking so to me.San.—Then there is your siller, I hae gottenbut poor penny-worths for’t, and ye’ll tell me- to repent for't: What the auld thief needs Irepent, when I am gaun to marry de woman ?w ise Willy.—Now stir, you and maister eldersye mauna put them on the black creepy till theybe married, they’ve suffered enough at ae time.Awell, awell, said they, but they must marryvery soon then.I trow sac, says Sandy, ye‘ll be wanting mairsiller ; foul hae’t ye’ll do for naething here.Hame comes Sandy, starving o’ hunger, yemight a casted a knot on his lang guts. Hismitherwas baking peace bannocks; up he getsa lump of her leaven into his mouth. Auldthief be in your haggis-bag, Sandy, ye beenwi’ the minister, the day, ye’d get a good langgrace, he might a gi’en you meat, thou filthydog it tu is, thou hast the bulk of a little whalpieo’ my leaven in your guts, it wada been four goodbannocks and a scone, and asair’d our Sandy'sdinner, saewud it e’en; but an ye keep a reekinghouse, and a rocking cradle three eleven years,as I hae done, less will sair ye yet, baggity beast14it tu is, mair it 'bore thee now, a hear ye thatmy dow.The next exploit was an action at law, againstthe goodman of Mniredge, a farmer who livednear by, that kept sheep and swine. His sheepcame down and broke into their yards, and atetheir kail; the wild hares, they thought, be¬longed to the same man, as they ran towardshis house when they were hunted. The swinecame very often in about their houses, seekingfish guts, and any ether thing they could get;so it happened that when one of their childrenwas sitting easing itself, one of the swine tum¬bles it over, and bites a piece out of the child’sbackside. The whole town rose in an uproar,and after Grunkie, as they called her. 1 heycatched her, and brought her before WiseWilly. Willy takes an axe, and cut < two orthree inches off her long nose. Now, saysWilly, I trow I hae made thee something de-center like, thou had sic a lang mouth and nosebefore, it wada frighted a very de’il to look atye; but now ye’re faced like a little horse orcow. The poor sow ran home roaring allblood, and wanting the nose! which causedMuiredge to warn them in before my Lord.So the wives who had their kail eaten, appear¬ed first in the court, complaining against Muir-edge. Indeed, my Lord, Muircdge is no agood man when he is sic an ill neighbour ;he keeps black hares and white bares, littlewee brown backed hares wi’ white arses, andlong wagging horns; de muckle anes ioupso’er de dyke and eats a’ de kail; and de littleanes wi’ de wagging horns, creeps in at ourwate’’ gush-holes, and does the like; when wecry Pisue, they rin awa hame to Muiredge;but I’ll gar my coily baud ’em by the lit, andI’ll baud ’em by tile horn, and pu a’ de hairaff ’em, and send ’em hame wanting de skin.In comes Willy. Aweel, my Lord, ye maunjust gar Muiredge gie ten merks to buy a plais-ter to hail the bit poor wean’s arse again. Wellsaid, Willy, says my Lord, but who puts onthe sow’s nose again ? A ligs, my Lord, saidWilly, she’s honester like wanting it; an’ ginye had hane a nose, my Lord, as lang as thesow had, ye’d been obliged to ony body it wadcut a piece aft.A gentleman passing through their town,asked Witty Eppie where their college stood ?Said she, Gie me a shilling, and I’ll let you seebaith the sides ot. He gives her a shilling,thinking to see some curious sight. Now, saysshe, there’s one side of the shilling, and there’sthe ither, and ’tis mine now.PART III.Now Wise Willy was so admired for hisjudgement in cutting off the sow’s nose, that •my Lord in a mocking manner, made himburly-baiiie of Bucky-hine. Lang Sandy wasprovost, John Thrums, the weaver, was dean of16Guild, but Witty Eppiehad ay the ousting vote,in a‘ their courts and controversies.There happened one day a running horse tostand at one of their doors, and a child goingabout, the horse trampled on the child's foot,. which caused the poor child to cry; the mothercame running in a passion, crying. A-weebet'yefor a ‘orse it ere ye was born ! lilthy barbarianbruit it t'ou is, to set your muckle iron lufeon my bairn's wee fittie; od stir, I'll rive thehair out o’ your head, gripping the horse bythe mane and the twa lugs, cuffing his chafts^as if he had been her fellow-creature, crying.Be go-laddie, I’ll gar you as good ; I’ll tak youbefore Wise Willy the bailie, and he will cutaff your hand wi' tie iron lufe, and dan you willbe cripple, and gangthro’ thekintryon a barrowor on twa shule-staffs, like Rob the Randy, an{a meal pock about your neck.Her neighbour-wife hearing and seeing whatpast, cried, O ye fool taupy, what gars you saythat a ‘orse was born ; do you think dat a ‘orsehas a fadder or a midtier, like you or me, orony ither body ? A-what way do they cometo the warld dan ? A ye fool tappy, dinna theywhalp like the louses, ae auld ‘orse hobbles onanither anes back, and dat whalpsayoung ‘orse.When Lang Sandy and Roiioehing Jenny17were married, the wedding held three daysand twa nights ; my Lord and my Lady, withseveral gentlemen and ladies, attended for di¬version^ sake ; the piper of Kirkcaldy and thefiddler of Kinghorn, were both bidden by WiseWilly, the bride’s father, and if any mae cameto play unbidden, Wise Willy swore they shouldsit unsaircd, for these twa should get a‘ the silleri that was to be gi’en or won that day.The dinner and dorder-meat was a4 set inEppie's college, and* the dancing stood in twarings before the door ; and the first day, withdunting and dangling of their heels, dang downthe sea-dyke : some tumbled in, and some h°ldby the stanes; the fiddler fell o!er the lugs an4drouket a4 his fiddle, the strings gade out oforder, and the tripes turned saft like pudding-skins ; so the bag-pipe had to do for a4, and thefiddler got nought to do but sup kail, an4 pikebanes wi’ the rest of them.Now my Lord’s cook was to order the kettle,but Pate o’ the Pans play'd a sad prat, by castingin twa pounds of candle among the kail, whichmade them fat. Some could not sup them forthe candle wicks came ay into their cutties like18lingles in the dish, but some, who had strongerstomachs, Stripped them through their teeth,like ratton-tails, and said, Mony a ane wad befelythe o’ sic a string to tie their hose wi’ in apinch; my Lord and the gentry, iVjess Johnand the clerk, 'Were all placed at the head ofthe table, opposite the bride, but would supnone of the candle-kail. Wise Willy and thebridegroom served the table, and cried, Supand a sorrow to you, for I never liked sourkail about my bouse. When the flesh came,the bride got a ram’s rumple to pick ; she takesit up, and wags it at my Lord, saying, Ti, hie,my Lord, what an a piece is dat ? O, said he,bride, that’s the tail-piece* it belongs to you.Me, my Lord ! it’s no mine; I never had a tinglike dat, it’s a fish-tail, see as it wags, it’s a bito’ a dead beast. O yes, said lie, bride, you hitit now ; but how come you to eat with yourgloves on? Indeed, my Lord, there is a rea¬son for, dat, I hae scabbit hands. O fy, said he,I cannot believe you. So she pulls down herglove, and shews him. (f yes, said he, I seeit is so. Aha, but, my Lord, I wish you sawmy a—, it’s a1 in ae hatter ! O fy, said he,brider you should not speak so before ladies .and your maideris. I wonder, said he, to WiseWilly, her father, yOu do not teaehyour daugh¬ter to speak otherwise. A be my fae, my Lord,ye may as weei kiss her a—, as g?r her speakony ither way. The next dish that was seton the table, was roasted hens; and the bride’s ~portion being laid on her plate, she says to myLord, will ye let me dip my-fowl-arse amangyour sauce ? Upon my word, and that I willnot, said he, if it be as you told me. Heut,19 ■nay Lord, it’s no my a—, it’s but de hen’s Insean. 0 but, said he, bride, it’s the fashionfor every one to eat off their own plate ; youmay get more sauce, I can manage all minemyself. Indeed, my Lord, I thought ye liketme better than ony body. O but, said he, Ilove myself better than you, bride. Deed, myLord, I think ye’re the best body about thehouse, for your Lady’s but a stinking, pride-fu’ jade, she thinks that we sud rnak the fisha’ alike be-go, my Lord, she thinks we sudmak the baddies a’ like herrin’. O bride, saidhe, you should not speak ill of my Lady, forshe hears you very well. O deed, my Lord,I had nae mind o’ that. A well, then, said he,drink to me, or them ye like best. Thenhere’s to you a1 de gither.Dinner being over, my Lord desired the brideto dance. Indeed, my Lord, I canna dance ony,but i’ll gar my wame wallop foment yours, andthen rin round aboyt as fast as I can. Verywell bride, said my Lord, that will do; we shallneither kiss nor shake hands, but I’ll howto you,and ye‘U beck to me, and so vvefil have done.After dinner and dancing, my Lord advisedthe bride to be a good neighbour, and to ‘greewell with every body round about. I wat wellmy Lord, said she, ye ken I did never cast outwi‘ nae body but lang Pate de Pans, an‘ hewas a‘ de wyte o‘t ; it began \vr a hiertieing,an‘ a jamfing me about Sandy, the black stanesand the crab holes, where the wean was gotten,an‘ then it turn‘d to a hub-buban‘cully-shangy,an4 or e'er you wad said Jock Robson, we wereaboon ither on the mussel-midden. I trow* Itell‘d him o‘ his feif-titty it steal‘d de sarks andSO"drank de siller, and how his mither sell'd maukymutton, an’ mair nor a’ that, and sae did I e’en,my Lord.My Lord had a friend who was a captain inthe army, who came to visit him; and hearingof the Buckers’ sayings and exploits, was verydesirous to sec them; and my Lord, to put themin a fright, sent his servant, and ordered all ofthem, both men and women, to come up beforebis gate, directly the morn before kail-time, andall that did not come, was to flit and removeout of my Lord’s ground directly, this putthem all in great terror, Some ran to WiseWilly to see what it mean'd: Willy said, itwas before something, and was sure that deathwould be the warst o’t, come whfft will. ButWitty Eppie said, I ken weel what’s to come,he’s gaun to mak the men o’ us sogers, and thewaves dragoons, because we .1 re de best fighters.I ken there is something to come on the town,for Nancy saw Maggy s gaist the streen, it wrasbury’d four ouks syne. A heeh, co’ Willy,that’s a sign the meal is dear in the ither warm ;we’ll tak our dinner or we go, we’ll maybene’er come back again. So away they wentlamenting all in a crowd. My Lord and thecaptain were looking out at the window whenthey came up. The captain cried to them,To the right about. To which they answered.Good bless you, my Lord, what does that mansay ? Then said my Lord, turn yfonr face toMaggy Millheads, and your arse to the sea.This they did in all haste. What will we donow? said Willy. No more, said my Lord,hut gang away hame Willy. O my blessingscome e’er your bonny face, my Lord, T wish21you may never die, nor yet grow sick, nor nae-body kill you; ye’re the best Lord I ken, forwe thought a‘ to be dead men and sogers;ye4re wiser than a‘ the witches in Fife.It was an old custom in Bucky-harbour,when they got a hearty drink, that they wentdown to dance among the boats. One, two orthree of the oldest went into a boat to see therest dance. Whenever they admitted a bur¬ger, there was always a dance. One day theyadmitted glyed Rob Thomson, from the islandof May, and after he was admitted, they gotaccount from Wise Willy that glyed Rob wasa witch, which made them all stop their danc¬ing, and Rob was cried on to make answer tothis weighty charge. Glyed Rob cried, Noneof you shall stir a fit for two hours, I’se war-rand you. So Rob spangtd and j umped overthe boat several times, and put them in greatterror ! So that Rob was obliged to go backto the May, and carry coals to the light-house.It was reported that glyed Rob was born inBucky, and that his father was Willy Thom¬son’s son, who was banished for a slave to theMay, to carry coals ; he would not take withhim, because he had but ae eye. After that,there was no more dancing at admitting ofburgers, but the old usual way over a scate‘$rumple, and then drink till they were blind fu\ooUpon the Hoctl-day, four young Bucky lasseswent away early in the morning with their creelsfull of fish; about a mile frae the town, thevsaw a man coming down the brae driving ahorse before him; and when he came near,Tardy-Tib says, ’Tis a man driving a big mati-ken. Tib flaug iter creel and fish away, theother three ran another away, and got off.They said it was a horn’d de’il; and when Tibtell’d the fright so tnfe story in the town, manyran out to see the poor man (or cadger and idshorse) driving the auld mauken. The fisherslook on all maukens to be devils or witches;and if they but see a dead mauken, it sets thema trembling.The fisher lasses look with great disdain ona farmer’s daughter, and all the country lasses ;they call them muck-a-byres, and sherney-tails.The L'ucky lads and lapses, when they go togather bait, tell strange stories about ghosts,witches, VYilly-wi’-the-wisp, and the Kelpy,Fairies, and Maukens, and Boggles of ail sorts.The Ghosts, like old horses, go all night, forfear they are seen, and be made to carry scate,28or fish, or be carted ; and witches am the warstkind of devils, and make use of cats to ride upon,or kill kebbers and besoms, and sail over seasin cockle-shells, and witch lads and lasses, anddisable bridegrooms. As for Will} and theWisp, he is a fiery devil, and leads people offtheir road in order to drown them; for he sparkssometimes at our feet, and then goes before uswith his candel, as if he were twa or threemiles before us. Many a good boat has Spun-k.ie drown’d; the boats coming to land in thenight-time they observe a light off the land, 'and set in upon it, and are drowned.The Kelpy is a sly devil, he roars before aloss at sea, and frightens both young and oldupon the shore. Fairies are terrible trouble¬some, they gang dancing round folks lums, andrin through the houses, they hunt and playodd tricks ; and lift new-born bairns from theirmothers, and none of them is safe to lie withtheir mothers, for a night or two after theyare born, unless the mother gets a pair of men’sbreeches under her head the first three nights ;the Fairies whip away the child, and leave anold stock with the woman. One tried to burnan old stock that the Fairies left in the cradle,but the old stock jumped upon a cat and flewup the lum. Maukens are most terrible ! andhave bad luck; none will go to sea that daythey see a Mauken; or if any one put a Mam-ken’s fit in their creel, they will not lift it thatday, as it will be bad luck, either broken backsor legs, or arms, or hear bad accounts of theboats at sea. They are terrified for all sortsof boggles both by land and sea.24MUS3EL-M0U‘D HARRY,The Skull-maker, whose lug was nail’d to a treenear my Lord‘s garden, for cutting youngsaughs, for to make, skulls and creels of, heput himself in a hideous dress, and went aboutplaying tricks in the night-time, which fright-'1ed the wrhole town, until he was catched bymy Lord's piper. He was therefore sent tothe minister, who rebuked him ; but Harrysaid that he frighted only his ain town, butthe minister frighted the whole parish, by tell¬ing them that they would go to Hell, if theydid not repent; this is your gate o’t stir, and Imake them to repent by fright; so I think Ishould be paid by your honour for‘t. Youtell me, stir, about my Lord's saughs, for whichI suffered; if your honour's lug had beenthere, you wou'dga gotten aff sae easy, for,stir, your lugs are as lang as my grey cat's ; jso I bid you farewell.FINIS,