T H KIs actors GarlandIN FOUR I’ARTS..J. Be»ng a tras nr: -itjt how s tv: ■; mmriot«d a . ay a gr,-** pan of h:s c.'tite.') !. ecam•' to ‘“versl Mrrch.mrs n Lc. Ion.. How h- focorpfcnfn ^ C'-rKtCn, IrRg oft th, groi urkey, and gav,- fifty pmr,'., far irs burialII. How he fretd •• r. eng w mm from beinga-d brought • • •• t > I. , , oIII. And how. by s YeS of Cr flow ring, theHlhcr, came to'hear r,f hi, hti dau hter.I\ . _ How the Fi&or.wwbe.-ayed sni throve v,v«tn the way s^3 ma-wr ho,v he was pn e.fciOftgtt to the Frlr.cds n laa-c. and mam,;' ,,pVih-boirdti h utu by J. Aiorren.7(*)"The Fa&or's Garland.PART I.BEHOLD h<K’s a ditty thetmh and no jeft,Concerning a young jentlemnn that liv’d in iheealWho by his great gaming came to poverty,And afterwards went many voyages to fea.■ring well educated tnd one of great wit,Three merchants id London they all thought it fit.To make him their Captain and fadtor ailo,And for them a voyage to Turkey did go.And walking along the ftreeu, there he found,A poor man*# dead corpfe lying on the ground ;He rlkv;; the rcafon, why it there did lye?Then ore ot the natives did imke this reply,That man was a ChrHh'ac, fir, while he drew breathyThe duty’s unpaid, he lies above the earth,Why, what is the duty the Fardor he cry’d,It is fifty pounds; fir, the Tuik he. replied.That is a great fum, quoth the Fafior, indeed.But to fee him lie there, it makes my heart bleed ;So then Wy the Faftor the money was paid,And un4e? the earth the dead carcafe was laid.When having gone further, by ctunee he did fpy,A beautiful crcatnre juft going > die,A y«u*£ waiting c aid who rtrangled mftft be,For nolhiof hut fiaiking a Turkith. 1. !y.To think of he^dying, with grief he was SUM, ,Tien rivers r.f tear* 5ike waters d:M!:M,: .t; . 'irv-tpl r.f a fa’-Blftin, from her eyes ran down • ichecks, and from that to the ground.Hi ‘i. what the crime war, he to cud the ft rift, j1 1 give for this poor creature’s life! jTheanfwer wji return’d, an bnndred pound,The which for her ranfom he freely paid down,He faid, hireft creatute, they weeping refrni::.And be of good.comfort, thou fnalt not be /lain.Behold I have purchas’d your pardon, will yeBe willinj to go to-fair England with me.She faid, fir, I thank you, who hai fretd me froai death,I’m bound to obey you fo long’s I havi breath ■And if you are willing, to fair England I'll go,And due refpedb to you till death f-will /haw-.'PART IJ.HE brought her to London, where it is faij.He fet up houfe.keeping, and made her his maid,For to wait upon him, and finding her juft.With the keys of his rich: s he did her imrufrAt laft the young fjclur was hired once mr-eTo crofs the proud wiv#s and biihnvs that .o r*And into that country his courfe was to fteer.Which by this maid’s father govern’d, we herBeing a hot ccnatry, this maid did prepareTo get him light robes in that enuntry to srtsr •He bought a filk waftcoat, the which it is told, ’His fervant*maid flowered with ffier and ccH.She faid to him Mafter, I do under:lm3You are going a Fadtor into fuch a land,,And if yod that Prince’s court enter i;,Be fnre you let tLi» fine flowered garment he f*- -He faid, to that Prince’s court £ mu ft go,The meaning of your words I wifit for to koo vWith that he replied, I’ll fulfil thy mind.Away then he failed and rame to the fhnrrThe FaAorhc came to the Einp;i*r’f, c]c,0, ’For it was the ufual cuftom of this plare, ;To prefent fome noble gifts unto his graef.HU gif: was seceptcd of, and as He Pood by,On bis flowered garment the Piir.ee call an eye,Whicii made h:m to colour, and thus he did fay,Who fb'vered this garment, now tell roe I pray >If it pleafe your grace, to mr fait voyage to furkey,I there faw a young hdy that ftrang'ed muft be,Aud to fare her life gare an hundred potitfd,And carried her with me to fair London town.There (he’s my honfekreoe', while Pm in this land,When of myooneing hire flic did underfland,She flowered this robe and gave ftrick charge to me,To let it beieen to yofct great Majeliy.The Peince cried, beheld friend, the robe which T wearIs of the fsdie.fpot atid flower I do fw’ear :Your maid Wrought them both, flte’s my daughter dear,1 have not heard from her, till now. thefe three year.To pay a vifit tofomd'luighbouringprince,I feat bet in a fhip and have not feen her finceVAnd I was afraid the fra had prov’d n.r grave,But I heard to Turkey fhe was taken a flave.For the lofs of my child, whom I thought had been kill’dA well full of tears in my court have been fpill d,My princefs. her mother, could for her get no reft,Her iofs drew millions of fjghs from her breaft.The Q'-tp flial! be richly loaded with fpeed,And I’ll fend a Ihip for her convey indeed jBecanfe of thy love, having fav'd my child’s life,Bri*g her alive to me, and I’ll make bet thy wife.And if thou IhouW’ft not live to bring her to me,Whoe’er brings her home, his bride fhe (hail be,And twenty thoufand a year ye frail have,That ventur’d my deaf child’* life for to fave.The fhip being loaded their anchor did weigh,And over the main he came with his convey,To fair Loudon city, and home he did go,And gave the jouc,?, princefs t’f!* tidings to know.C 5 )PART III.He f»id noble Iti!y,T have good new»to te!!,Tbe nob'e Prince your father and mother's Loth well,And your royel parents the thing have defigi’dIn the bond of m ed?ock we both (houlj be join’d.Perhaps noble lady you irould not agree,To marry a poor man, efpeciaily me :■Sir, were you a begg«r I would be your wife,Becaufe when joft dying you fayed my life'.I n ver fhall forget that token of love.Of all men now breathing I prize the above ;Since it is fo ordfacd, Pm wellpicafed i vow.And ga'd roy dear father thie thing doth allow.Pray fell off your goods which you have in (lore,And give all your money to thofc that are poor.And !et us be jogging away o’ r the the main, -For I long to fee my dear parents a.-ain.This thing was fonn done, ancMhey'failed away,In the fliip that her father lent rWr her convoy;But mark, what was s&ed on the ocean wide,To deprive the Fadtor of h’s Royal bride.The Captain who convoyed him over the deep,One night as the Fadtor was laid in his deep,Being under fai! over board did him throw,Saying now I (hall have this young creature I know.There happened to be a fmali ifland at hand.To wlfich the Faftor fw&m as I underfland ;And there we will leave him a while tor to mourn,And now unto the (hip again we’ll return.Next morning then as foon as day.Hght did peep,He wak’d the young Princefs out her tkep,And faid noble lady the Factor's not here,He’s fallen over board and drowned I fear.To bear the fad news her eyes they did flow.He faid, noble lady, llnce now it fo.There's nose her« tbat can help ir, do not troubled be.For you In ftiort fpace your p'ircuta fhad ice.Asd when that they ctme to ifee defired port,This Prineefs came weeping to her father’s court,"Who gladly received her with joy and great mirth,Saying, where i*th« ms* thst iVerJ yon trorri death?The Captain replied, ss he lay jfleep.He fell wver board, asd> was dr»w<ned in the detp ;Your Grace, laid the man, that yoUr child home did bringWould have her, i h#pe you’Il.petTorm tbjj thing.Yes, that was my promise, the monarch replied,What fay’d thou my daughter, wilt thou be his bride ?She laid, Yes, honoured father, but firfl if-you pleafs,For him that faved my life I’ll mourn forty day*.Then into clofe mourning this lady Ibe weat,For the lofs of her good friend in tears to lament,And there we leave her in forrow a while,Aud return to the Faftor who was left oa the ifle?PART IV,CH tb*‘s defart ifland the Fa&or he lay.In floods of tears, weeping two nights and a day,At length on the ocean appeard in his viewA little old mao, paddling in a canoeThe Fs&sr call'd to him, which caus’d him to flay,And drawing near to him, the old man did fay,Friend, h. w cam’ft thou hither ? with eyes that did flow,He to'd him the fecret and where he would go.The old man faid to him if here thou doft lie,With grief and hunger in a (hint time thou wilt die,What wilt thou give if to that court I thee guide,I have nothing to give you the Fa&or replied.If thou w-lt but promife-and be true to me.To give the firfl babe that is born untolhee,When thirty months old to that court I’ll the bn’og,will not releafe you without that very thing.(1)The Fa&or ronfiJered that tiling wo:. Id catife gritf.And without it for him there wa& no relief;He cried life is fvreet, and my life for to fave, .Cany me to that place and your will yoa (hall have.So foon he ras carried to the court, and vsheirHe came tp the gates, be faw hie Udy thenLooking out of her window, who i'ieing him there,From furrow to joy they both tranfponej were.He into the court then with joy was receiv’d,Where the lady did meet him, who for him had griev’d.And faid, my dear jewel, my joy and my dear,Where have you tarred ? Oh ! pray let me hear.Where fo lesg he tarried, he then did relate,Audby what means he came to her father’s gate.He faid I was thrown overboard in my fleep,I think it wag the Captain threw me in the deep.With that the Captain was fent for with fpeed.And hearing the Fsftor was come there indeed,To fhow hitrfelf fuihy, like a , uel knave,Leap’d into the ocean, which piovcd his grave,Next day with groat joy and triumph we find,The Fadtor and lady in marriage Wt-e join’d,And within the compafs and fpace of three years.They had a fine fen and a daughter we hear.The fon was the firft born, a prrffdf beauty,And was well beloved by the whole family.Whet thirty months old cam. the man h>r tho child,Who relcafed the factor from Ins defart ifle.When the Fa&or law him his ■.;•€? they did Sow,Then gave his lady *:•-i parents tokonw'lie was frrtd to make that prorf.i.'e onlyIn >. de::;r ’flr, led 1 c with ' uagst Sio • d die*With a rritta lo»k the old tnau did app^ar,-Whtcir nude the, court tfreoble and fifi’d them with fear,Crying, Wt»a; (hall w'e do? lure he ia not a urau,Tie ,7ill have Uavs our <3ariiugt do 4II ih^t v,c can.He it wa? promis’d, and I’i! have my d«erllwre is one tube for me and another for you;I will have y'or fiift-borp, come give him to me,At which all the family w pt bitterly.The babe’s mother cried, 1 am jrmv’d to the heart;'!To think that [ with fuch a dear infant muft part.To one fhould carry him, the Lord know , where.And perils pa in pieces ray darling wdi tear.With that flie embrac’d him aid down t!»e tears fellj;And then having kifs’d him him (lie bafe him farwell 'Saying, it is for the fake cf huiband that IDo part with my firfbborn. though for him I die.So then then the grim ghcft to her h.ofoand did fr y.Sir, do you remember, in Fur key one day,You fan. a dead mar.’s corpfe lying on the ground,And to have it buried you gave fifty pound.Sir, I am the fpirit of that dead body,1 faved your life for that great love, to me.You may keep your b^he, and God Stefs you allWith that it van idled out of the hall.Being gone, the old Prince and the princefs likev/UejThe bates tender-par err a with tears in their eyes.With joy they embne’d their dar ing young fon,Saying, child had thou left us. we had been uada ie.Now we’il leave the court with joy add great mirthTo love one another while God .given .hem breath,And now by this Fadtor we may Le indeedNo mortal can prevent what Fate has decreed;,FINIS.