- *+++■+-(.4-1*+++■*• ++++++THE ]\)|Great Importance jtOF ]%: :| A Suitable Preparation for Death, i::IX;(±C* <(iihlwo*•Vc^jlIt!141SERMON,ONt(!(ii*(ax=Psalm Ixxxix. 48.JVbat nun is be that livetb, and Jhallnot fee Death, fcfc. )+ — %BY THE LATE REVERENDMr. ANDREW GRAY, )titMimfter of the Gofpel in Glasgow.FALKIRK:printed & Sold by t. johnston.1816.■H +4-f+-H-H,+4 -H--H--H-+4-+++4 4+ +1 -H- +*1 i( 2 )A SERMON,O NPsalm Ixxxix 48.WAat man ic he that livetb, ar.d foall notfee death ? &c.Xr is very hard to determine, where allthat are here fhall be within thirty years ;v for even ere that time, many ( f not all)of us who are here, ihall have taken upour everlafting lodging. And whether weihall take it up in the eternity of joy, Orin the eternity of pain, is alfo ha'd to de-^termine ; only this one thing I am fure of,that all of us fnaH ihortly be gone ; andthe fhadovs of death Ihall be fitting uponour eye-lids, and our eye-iirings Ihall be¬gin to break. Surely, I think, we are allnear to eternity* and there are feme hear¬ing me to day, whom 1 defy the world toallure, that ever they fhalt hear anotherfermcn ; therefore I entreat you all to hearthis preaching, as if it were the lafl preach¬ing that ever you fhould hear ; and O thatwe could fpeak it as if it Were the laftiermon that ever we would preach unto you.lielieve me, death is another thing than we.Uk? it tp be. Oh ! v.hst will many of us( 3 >do in the day of our vifttatipn, when defo-laiion fliall come from afar ? Where willv.e flee for rell ? And w'here will we leaveour glory ? Old rich men, where will yeflee, when death afTuults you ? Old poormen, where will you flee, when death af-faults you ? Old won en where will youflee, when death s.{faults you ? Youngwomen, where will you flee, whert deathaflaults you ? It was an ancient obferva-tio.' of D.ivid Pfalm xxxix. 5. that Ood■ made his da^ s as an nand-brtsdth. Thiseither may relate to the fourfold {late ofman, viz. His infancy, his child-hood, hisnun-hood, and his old age. Or, it mayrelate to the lourfold time of hb life, viz.His morning, his forenoon, his aftercoonrand his evening. Yet, all our life lime isi but a day. And,, O think ye not that ourday is neir unto a cloifn?Now, before that I begin to fpeak anything from the words, I {hall fpeak a few! things to thefe two queflions, which I con-j ceivr may not altogether be unprofitable.Quell, x. W .ether s it lawful for anyto delire to die, ."M'd return unto their longand end.'efs home ? Whether it be law fulfor one to cry out, O time, time, flee away( md all my fhadows let them be gone) thatlo, iong eternity may come ?Act'. I fay. It i? liwfu't in fome Cafes: for one to deiire to die; for it va* Pauksdefire, Philip, i. 23. “ I am in a ftrait be-“ twixt cwo, having a defire to depart, and4‘ to be with Chrifl, which is far better.”And, 2 Cor. v. 2. “ We groan earneftly,“ deliring to be clothed upon with our houfe“ which is from heaven.” I long greatlytill the twenty.firft year of my age come,when my minority fhall be overpalt, that1 may enter heir to that matchlels inheri¬tance. But to clear in what cafes it islaWful to defire to die.1. I fay. It is lawful to defire to die,when it floweth from a defire of uninter-rupud fellowfi-ip and communion withChrill, and conjurction with him ; this is ,clear. 2 Cor. v. 6. “ Knowing that whilft(i We are at home in the body, we are ab-4‘ fent from the Lord.” Therefore, ver. 8.“ We are willing rather to be abfent from,“ the body, and to be prefent with the“ Lord.” And it is clear, Philip, i. 23.“ I ana in a llrait betwixt two, having a“ dtfirc to depart, and to be w ith Chrift,“ which is far better.” It was his greatend to have near and unmixed communionwith Chrilt. What ailetlwyou Paul (mightone have laid,) may ye not be content toDay. a .while here l Nay, faith Paul, “ I“ deftre to be gone, and to be v hh Chrift.”Wall thou never with him here, Paul:—I have been with him, faith he, but whatn all my beirg with him here, in compart-Hs)fen of being with him above; “ Wbuff*• I am prefeat in the body, I am abler,-“ from the LordTherefore, I will neverbe at reft, faith he, get what I will, untilI get Chrift, until I get thofe naked andimmediate embracement? of thatPlant or RtuOsm, the , „j«ref of the hockcf Jisse, who is the light of the higherhoufe, the eternal admiration of angels.2. It is lawful to desire to die, when itfloweth from the excellencies of heavenvfrom a defire to partake of thefe excellent:things that are there; this is clear, 2 Cor.v. 4. “ We groan, being burdenedor,as the word is, “ We groan, as they who“ are prefled under a heavy burden, thatwe may be clothed -upon,” &c. Whataileth you to groan fo, Paul ? O, faith he*I groan that mortality may be ['wallowedup of life.3. It is lawful to defire to die, when itfloweth from a defire to be faved from thebody of death ; and from thefe temptationsthat do aflanlt us ; and from thefe oppref-fions whereunto we are fubjedt by it.—*Doubtlefs Paul defined to die on this ac¬count, when he cried out, Rom. xii. 24.u O wretched man that I am 1 Who (hall4* deliver me from the body of this death i”1He longed greatly for that day, whereonhe fhould be made white, “ like the wing<s“ of a dove covered with, silver, wholefeathers are of yellow gold.” O! faith iPaul; I am as one ini patient till I be above,where I fkuU be clothed with thefe excel¬lent and cl.anly robes, the righteoufnefs ■|jll Ghrill. On ! faith Paul, I think everyday a yr--r. till I be possessed of thatkingdom where Satan cannot tempt, andthe creature cannot yield, and where ! filiallbe tree from ail rnv fears of sinning. Now,in all thefe refpects, -who would not desireto die r Bat, to guard all thefe, I wouldgive you thefe four cautions.i. Can-ion. Your desire to die fhetddnot be peremptory, but you fhould desire,to die with fubmiffioo to the will ol Gcd.;fo that although he would fill up fifteenyears mere to your life, ye iliould be con-to live it out.*' 2. Caution. When .vour desires are'haily. and off-hand, fufpedl them ; for fome,when they meet with an outward crofs(without all deliberation) will cry out,O to be gone ! O that 1 were dead ! ButI your desire to die fhouid be deliberate,but net haily, or raih.3. Caution. It is not lawful to desireto die, becaufe of peribnal au ctions.—*Many, when they meet with bitter {'.fHi >lions, will cry out. O to be gone j theylung for death even upon that account;fuch were Job’s desires, Job xxi. 22. andchap. vi. 8; 9. “ O that I might have myrequeft! even that it would pie aft God’,i to deftrey me.’’ This desire was veryunlawful.4 Caution; It not lawful to desire todie, when thy predominant idol is taken! away from thee: yet fueh was Jonah’sdesire, chap. iv. 3. Jonah thought his creditand reputation (which was his idol]f wasgone, and could never be regained ; there¬fore he wifhed to die. But I would faythis to you, that lome will have ten desiresfor death, when they have not one desirefor heaven. And what moveth -Chriiliansto be fo desirous to die ? It is not fo muchbecaufe of their hope, as becaufe of their1 anxiety ; it js not fo much becaufe of their1 confid nee, as bec'aufe of their Impatience.But I fay uoto you, when your desires ofi death are not accompanied with desires ofheaven, fufpect therp. 2. I would fay Vnithat there are lome who will have tendesires lor death, when they will net havej one for the death of the-body of death;but it wore good for thee (who art fuch)to be desiring the death of the body otdeath, then ibouldft thou be in a morefuitable frame to desire to die. 3. Somewill have hearty desires to die, and yet.,when death Cometh, they wall be as ui-willing to die as any. It hath been ol-ferved, that fome who had much desire todie, when death came, have cried out,( 8 )O ijtfire 'a little, that T may recover^ nrength,” &c. ,There is a great difference betweena desire to die, and death itfelf. It is aneafy thing to desire to die, b. t it is a verygreat businefs to meet with death, and tolook it in tha face when it conieth. Wethink death (ere it come near us) to bebut children’s play ; but when we meetwith it, it m-aketh us change* uwr thoughts;lor if it a great business to die.Qued. 2. Is it lawful for a Chriflianto desire to live, when he is fummonedto die.?Anfw. Tn feme cafes it is lawful fora GhriP.ian <o desire to live, even when heis fummoned to die ; w i-.h is clear fromthe praGice bi David, Pi-' n xxxix. 13.where he prayeth, that the Lord wouldfpsre him a little. It alfo clear from thepractice of good Htzekiuh. Ilk xxxviii 3.when he was cojrmiand d to fet his houfein order, for he fhoul die, and not live,he crieth out. Rente'- her now, O Lord,“ how I have walked before thee ua truth,‘‘ and with a perfect heart, and h ive done“ that which is good in thy sight: and“ Hezekiaa w‘pt fore : ’ or. the ordsare in the original, “ He wept with //eat“ weep’ng.” But, to guird tins, takethefe t^o cautions.( 9 )Ctution i. Th^ desire to live (when'! thou art fummoned to die) fhould not beI peremptory, but with fubmiilion to theI will of God, that if it be his pieafure to! remove thee prefeutly out of time, thou!, ihouldil b-e content to die.Caution 2. Thy defire to liva fliouldhave gracious principles, and alfo a vet'_^I gracious end, as is molt clear from David,Pialm xxxix. 13. where he faith, “ O fpare“ me a little, that I may recover ftrength,“ before I go hence, and be no more.”—His dcfire to live was, thst he might havevittury over his idols. As if he had faid.My define to live is, that X may havefirength to wreltle with, and overcomemy idols. And, without all contrcveriy,Hezekiah’s defire was a molt precious andwell grounded define. However, I wouldfay this unto thee, that thou fhouldelt exa¬mine thy defines to live (as much, if notmore): as thy dvfire to die; for, we areread' to (huh dea>h, if we could, but he isthat univerfal King unto whom all of usmult be fubjeft’ere long.Now, in the words which are read unto,you, there are thefe fix things, which'mightbe clearly obferved from, them,I. That it is a moil clear and infallibletruth, that all perfons Ih ;l once tee death ;as is clear in thefa words, Who .if be thatl/vetby and jhall not fee death 2( 10 )II. That this truth (that we {hail oacelee death) is not much believed or thoughtupon by many ; therefore it is that thePfalmift doubTeth the alFcrtion, Wbit manis be (bat bvetb, and y/j-71 not fee death Pdibail be deliver bis foul (that is, his life)front the band (that is, from the power)sf the grove ?III. That fometimes a Chriftian maywin the folid faith of this truth, that oncehe'muft die ; this the Pfalmift wan unto,as it is alfo clear in that word who : Whois be that livetby and Jball not fee death PIV. That the certainty of this, that oncewe {hall die, Ihould be ftill kept in ourmind; therefore, that note of attention,Selaby is put to it. As if he had laid,Take heed, that there is none living thatihall not die 1V. That howbeit fome perfons put theevil day far away, as if they were ndt tofee death ; yet, is the day ccming, whenthey fhall fee death, and death {hall takethem by the hand. ,VI. We Ihall take notice of this fromthe context, that the Chriftian who is muchin minding the brevity of his life, will be¬lieve the certainly of his death. ThePfalm ft was fpcalting of the fitortnels of.his life in the preceding verf'e, and, in thisvgrfej he fpeakethof the ceftaftpy of death.tr'{ .H )Now, as for the ftrft of thefe things ob-ferved, viz. 'i'hat it is certain and raoit forethat we fha*l once die, I hope there arenone here who will deny ; alt::o’ I confeisfome few gf yon believe, what, was laid bythe woman of Tekoah, 2 Samuel xiv. 14.*• We muft all die, and be like water fpik“ upon the ground, that cannot be gathered“ up again. God doth not except the perfon“ of any.” And Job xzx. 23. “ i know” that thou wilt bring me to death, and to“ the houfe appointed for ail lining.”-—And it is very clear, Ecclef. viii. 8. “ Tnere“ is no man that hath power over the fpirit,“ to retain the fpirit; neither hath he power“ in the day of death ; and there is no dif-“ charge in that "ar; neither ihall wicked-“ nefs deliver thofe who are given to it.' —So that it is moft clear that we mull die.1 remember of one Philip, king of M ice-do ’.ia, who had one fubftituted for this veryend. to cry at his oh am her-door every morn¬ing' Memento ?nsri. Mi mento more, Mcmeni?mori. Remember thou art to die. An.i, i;is reported to have been the praftice ot theNobles of Greece, on the day wherein theirEmperor was crowned, that they prefert-d,1a marble-lVone unto him, and he was re-.quired alter what ft‘hi on he would haveliis tomb-llone made ? Which practicefpeaks forth this unto us, tivat nkho’ thefev/ere mod dedituse. of the L'^ht c£ thef 1( 12 ) IScipture, they were very miadfiil of death.Believe me, death may furprife us before !we be awate; for it is moil certain, that (’wemuftdie; but, there is nothicg more Iuncertain than the way how, and the timewhen we ftiall die.Death will furprife fome, as it did Abelin the open fields, Genefis iv. 8. Deathwill furprife fome, as it did Eglon in hisparlour, Judges iii. 21. And, death willfurprife fijme, as it did Saul and Jonathanin the fight, 1 Samuel xxxi.Now, in fpeaking to this point, I (ball.Speak a little to the advantages whichattend thofe that live within continual fightof death. SecondI fliall give you fomeconfiderations to prefs you to prepare fordeath. Thirdly, I lhall give you fonieclire£tions to help you to prepare for death.And then we (hall proceed unto the fecondpoint of the doCtrine, wl%ch we obfervedfrom the text. And I fhall fpeak a fewthings from it unto you, and fo come toa clofe for this time.Firft then, We conceive there are thefefeven advantages which attend thofe wholive within the continual sight of this truth,that they mull die.Firft, The faith of approaching death,will make a foul exceeding diligent in duty.This was cur hlefied Lord’s divinitv, jotin•lx. 4v I muft wc.'k thej work of K m that1;( i3 )“ fent me, while it is dav: the night cometh“ when no man can work.” That is, deathis approaching, therefore I nmil -work.—It is claar alfo, 2 Peter i. 12. comparedwith verfe 14. In verfe 12. Peter is ex¬ceeding diligent in his duty ; and the groundof his diligence is in verfe 14. “ Knowing,“ that fhortly I mull put off this taber-“ nacle,” &c. Yet it is even the Epicure’sargument, “ Let us eat and drink, for to-“ morrow we may die.” And, fhould notthe Chriftian much more cry out. Let mewatch and pray, for to-morrow I may die?I fay, if the Epicures did make ufe of thisnotion, to make them vigorous in the pur-I fuit of their pleafures, O how much morefhould a Chriltian improve it, for makinghim vigorous in the purfuit of duty ?—Therefore I fay unto you all, O be ye dili¬gent, for your night is drawing near,—O Chriflians, and expedients of heavenja are ye not afraid left ye *be nighted beforeI ye have walked the half of your journey ?For, if ye be nighted on \ our journey toheaven, before ye come up to the end ofyour race, there is no retiring place where-unto ye may turn afide to lodge. ThereforeO work, work, work, while it is to-day ;for, behold death is approaching, and thenfhall we all be called to an account.Second. The faith of approaching death,will make a Chriftian exceeding adtive inIduty; he will not only be diligent, but alfoexceeding ferious and zealous in the exer-cife of his duty. This is clear, from thatnotable exhortation in Ecclef. ix. 10.—“ Wbatfoever thy haird findeth to do, do it“ with all thy might.” And the reafon is,“ For there is no work, nor device, nor“ knowledge, nor wii’dom, in the grave,“.whither thou goe(t.n Wherefore, O bea&ive, while you are alive, for ye (hallnever work any more after ye are dead.And, if ye leave but one work undone,there is no doing of it after death : “ There“ is no work (faithSolomon) in the grave:”Therefore, O be a£livc.Third. The faith of this truth, that wemuft all die, will help a GhrKiian to beexceeding mortified to the things of a pre-fent world. Oil! covetous men and wo¬men, would you Pa ike hands with colddeath hut once every morning, I (houlddefy you to purfue the world fo much asye do. Paul was much in the meditztionof this change, which made him, z Cor.iv iS. to overlook thel'e things tbit aretemporary : “ While we look not (frath he)4' at 'tie things which are fe’en, which are“ temporal ; but at the things wnich are‘ n >' feen, which are eternal.” Therefore,C p. v. x, 2. “ Knowing, that if our earthly“ h:> fe of this tabernacle ere diffoived,“ we have a building of God, anjioufe not/i( !5 )“ made with hands, eternal in the heavens:“ Therefore, in this vve groan, earneftlydefiring to be clothed npon with our houfs“ which is from heaven.” What aileth you,Paul, (might one have laid) may ye not take (a look of the world ? No, faith he, ” For; “ 1 know, that if our earthly houfe of this“ tabernacle were difibU ed, I have a houfe“ with God, not made with hands, but“ eternal in the heavens.” That is, Iknow, that ere long, the pins of my taber¬nacle will be loofed, and it will fall downabout my ears; therefore, I mull look foranother dwelling-houie. And, i Cor. vii. 31.“ The fafhion of this world paffeth away.”Therefore, faith he, ver. 32. ” I would have“ you without carefulnefs, caring how to“ pleafe the Lord.” And, Philiplans iv. 5.“ Let your moderation be known unto ailJ “ men. The Lord is at hand.” As if het had (aid, l intreat you to be fobsr. ButL I think many of os will be found like Sau’,l| hid among the lliifF; that is, we will bei lying among the midll of the pleafures ofthis pafling world. But 1 fay unto thee,l! Who art luch an one, that death w ill breaki the llrings of thy harp, thy mulic. will quickly3 ceai’e. O but deatit will make thee to have1 a low elleeui of the world ! O blessed is; the per fun, who hath thefe thoughts of the-< world all along in his way vthicn he fliall1 have Ot at death!. Have cot the. moll( i6 Jcurfed wretches been farced to cry out.Oh l I would give ten thoufand worlds forChrift ? Have not fome perfons (who havehad the moon upon their head, and that have* made their belly their god) been forced tocry out at death, O curfed perfon that I am,that ever I made the world my god? Alas!that I contented myfeif world ! ThereforeI fay unto thee, who art fuch an one, Oflay thy purfuit after the world, for death |is approaching, that will caufe all theworldly comforts to vanifh.Fourth. When a Chriftian believeth thistruth, that he maft die, it will be an ex¬ceeding great reftraint to k^ep him from •finning, as is clear, Job xxxi. 13. comparedwith verfe 14. where Job, reckoning overmany good deeds done by himfelf, faith,“ What then fliall I do, when God rifeth •44 up ? And when he vifiteth, what (hall )“ I nnfwor him?’’ As if lie had laid S:rs,millake me not; Tam boaiiing much of :myfclf, but I could not havr done other- jwif ; elfe what fnotrd I do when Godrifeth up ? How could I snfwer to God, 1if I had done otherwife ? t think it werea notable pra6\ice of each of you, to fay, )O temptation, what viil I anf-ver to God,when he riles up to,reprove me, it 1 should 'yield unto thee ?” Like wife, Ecclef. xi. 9*where Solomon, dissuading your., men topurfue after their vanity, brings this as( '1 >a reafon, “ Know ye, tlr .at For all thele; things God will bring yQ a into judgment.”I Therefore, I fay unto t’.iee, who art ofteni tempted to fin, let destV and reckoning w-ith! God, be dill in thy d'ght, and I defy theefj then to embrace half fo many temptations,lias now thou doft. I intreat you to anfwerI all your temptatie ,ns with that one wotd,“ What shall Ifjo when God nfet’h up?“ -And what shai 1 I anf^cr, when he visit-“ cth me ?”lijtb. When a Chriftian liveth withinthe sight of this truth, that he shall ohcefee death, it wii* make, him exceedingpatient under r'wry epofs wherewith hemeeteth. S<ch a'Qmftian will hardlyIT1.e?’ 'acrofs, 'jut he will quiet himfelfwi.h Deatlj will put me beyond thiscro'f ; this is ’out a cloud ths-.t will quicklypafs away.. And for this caufe did Davidfo oom'pofedly put up that desire, Pialm“ Lord make me to know mine1“ end, and the meafure of my days.’’ Hewas lure that the knowledge of his end,would put him in afober and patient frame.The S/xib advantage isthL, the fai h ofapproaching death, will teach the perfonth'at hath it, to lludy faving wifdom. This“s clear, Pfalm xc. 12. where Moles put-teth ,up this re quell, “ So teach us to nura-“ ber our days, that we may applv our“ hearts unto wifdum.'’ As if he had faid,I will never think myfdf wife, till I knowthat b essed j>aft vf arichnretic, how tonumber my hays. I would desire everyone of you all to think with yourfelf everyrnorning when you rifes Now, l am a daynearer unto eternity than 1 was before!And at the end of every hour, Now I araan hour nearer unto eternity than I wasbefore ! 1 fay-, think often, ye*, alwaysthus, I wasmever fo near my death as Iam now ! For Oh ! are we not ail nearerunto eternky to-'day, than yeflerday ?The Sevtmb- advantage attending thefaith of approaching deajh, is this, that itwill make a ChriltWn very careful in pre¬paring for death. It is impofrible for oneto believe really that death is approaching,and not to prepare for it. Say what yewill, if ye be not careful in preparing fordeath, ye have not the foiid faith of thistruth, that ye shall die. Believe me, it isaot ev^ry one that thinketh he believeththis truth, th:.t believeth it indeed. Audi'0 how dreadful is it for an unprepared manto meet with death ! He desireth not todie, yea, he would give a world for his life!but die die muft, whether he will or not;for death will not be rrquefted to iparea little when he cometb, An i therefore1 fay unto vou all, Set your ho 'e in*■ order, for ye shall ferely die.” Old menand women, fet vour houfe in order, lor( 19 )‘o morrow ’ye may die, and be cut off inthe flower of yoLir : *e. Think not that'there foe many who c-n fell time, for I fay,ye shall never get time fold unto you-—i|A*as ! I fear that the moil part or perfonajikhat din now, death findeth them at nn-.aw’ares*, for indeed the perfows that dieamong os, when we eo.ne to visit them, •i rwe may give you a fad account of them.fjWe think' they are comprehended undertlthefe four forts.-i When we go to visit forne perfonsion ti’.eir death-beds, they are like intoiNa oal, their 'heart is dying and sinkingi!{1 ike unto * ’'one) within them ; they arer rro more iffecled with death, than if it were• ia fancy. Alss ! for the great ftupidity thatI hath oveit ken many. Therefore. I intreatI'I you delay no your repentance till death,I: led tf e Lord tr.ke away your wir, fo thatyou cannot repent for your fenfelefsnef?,niand Utipid frame of fpirit.2. A fecond fort we find in a prefump-jluon? fry v- e, fayij>g, I’hey have had a goodhope all their days, and they will not qu’u mnow; they will go down to their graves withheir hope in their right hand ; or, rather,they will “ go down to the grave with a“ lie in their right hand They live in■a prefumptuous frame, and they die in thefame delufion. For, when we' tell them,by all probability they are going down toI t 20)I heir? They anfwer, God forbid! I Wasall mv time a very honed man or woman.But I love not that confeflion, for there aremany fuch honeft men and women in hellthis day.3. The third fort we find haviag fome Iconvictions that they have been playing.the fool all their days; but we can getthem no further. I fhall only fay to fuch, jTo go down to the grave with convictions jin their breafts, not making ufe of Ghrift,is to go down to hell with a candle in theirhand, to let them fee the way! And truly thegreateft part that die, die in that manner.4. There are fome whom we find in a|felf-righteous frame, reding upon the cove¬nant of works, and their own merits; andtrading by tiiefe to go to heaven: ye t,neglefting the cfl'er of Chrill’s righteouf-nefs. But, alas! we find notone of a thou-Ifand of this frame,141 defire to be dissolved,and t® be with Chrilt, which is bed of all.”- And fc irce do we find any in fuch a frame, |“ O Wretched man that I am, who fiiall44 deliver me from the body of this death!”Therefore I fay this unto yon all who arehere, O! will ye mind death, before it takehold oi.i you ? On ! mind your work now;for ye will find that 4eath will be worlcenough for kfetill then.f, though ye leave no work;f!The Eighth advantage that attendeththe Chriltian in believing this truth, thatonce he mull die, is this. Death will notbe fo terrible to him, as to many, when itcometh. What (think ye) makhth deathm a king of terrors ? What maketh many to; fhake as the leaf of a tree, when they areI fnmmoned to appear before God’s tribunal ?’ It is even becaufe of this, they have notbeen thinking of death before it came, foI as to prepare for it. And I fear many inI this place may be afraid for death; and that! when it cometh to them, they will fay untodeath, as Ahab faid to Elijah, “ Haft thou.“found me, O mine enemy?” Surely1 death will take you, and bring you to thejndgment~feat of Chrift ; therefore lludy,by all means, to think ofteu upon it, and-| make ready for it. Believe me, death isa very big word, for it will make you oncefland w ith horror in your fouls, if yourpeace be not made up with God ! I knownot a more dreadful difpeq,fation than death1 a guilty confcience meeting together.il. The Second thing that I (hall fpeakunto from tliis firft obfervation, (viz. Thisis a moft certain and infallible tr. th* thatall perions ihall once fee death,) fliall be,to give you fome conftderations for preflingyou to prepare for death.( 22 )The Firfl confidsjation 13 t!iis, To diewell, and in the Lord, is a moll; diffi :ukwork, 'Therefore, I entreat you to pre¬pare lor death. It is a difficult work tocommunicate aright, it is a difficult workto pray aright and it is a difficult work toconfer aright; hut, 1 mufi tell you, it isa more difficult work to die aright, thanany of thefe. It is true, it is more difficultto communicate aright, than fo pray aright;yet it is much more difficult- to die aright,^th»n to communicate aright; for it is amore*difficult work to die in the Lord.—•Death will put the molt accurate Chriftianthat is here to a wonderful fearch ; find,,therefore, I will tell you nine things thatdeath will try in thee.1. Death will try both the reality and{Length of thy faith. It may be e d'- forthee to keep up faith under manv difficul¬ties, but death will put thy faith to thegreatelt llrels that ever it did meet with.Yea, know this, that the faith of the lirongeltbeliever may get (and ordinarily doth get)a fet at death, the like whereof it nevergot before : therefore prepare for death.2. Death will try thy love to God Some perfons. pretend much to love him;but death v ill propoi'e thisqueilion to fuch. a perlon,4 Lovell thou him more t an thefe ?’Lovell thou him more than thy wife, morethan thy houfe, more than thy Iriends—But your unwillingnefs to die, giveih us^ much ground to feat that man> have littlelove to Chrill, but much to the world, and!* fo dare not anfwer the q leftion, “ Lord,“ thou knojyeil that I love thee.”3. Death will try thy enjoyments.—:5onje of you may be ready to think, that|ye nieet with many enjoyments, fo that ye:imay reckon (as you think) to forty enjoy-;:|ments and fveet out-lettings: Bat, beware,that»dea':h bring them not down to twenty.I have known fome, who thought they hadmet forty times with God ; but when death: came, it made them take down the countI to the half. Therefore, feeing death will|try the reality of thine enjoyments, O pre-‘pare for it.4. Death will try thy patience. Thoumay eft ft em to have much patience now,; but when death comcth (and thou art put, to die) it will put thy patience to a greati trial; therefore prepare for it.5 Death will try the reality of thy duties,I yea, even thofe duties wherein thou hadltmoft fatisfaftion, as praying, reading, See.6. D^ath will try thy ftricerity, and makeh appear what you really are.7. Death will difeover unro thee, manyhid and fecret fuls, which you knew hot.8. Death will accurately try th; moiti- -ficauon, and-put it to the touch-ftone.9. Death vyvll try thy hope, whether itbe real or not.( 24 )I fliall only fay this, That all the othej*graces mult low thg (ail to faith ; and foit is, faith mult carry us through, beingthe la it triumphing grace, which mult fitthe field for us, when all the other graces)'will faint and ly by.Now, to prefs you to make ufe ofdhrilt,conltder, If ye embrace not Chrift now,death will be very urlplcafant unto you.——O what elfe can comfort thee, when going'through the region of the fhadow of death,but this, I amChrilt’s! lam Chrilt's!—Is there any other thing that can comfortthe in that day, but only this, I am Chrili’s,and he. is mine ! And, O how blessed is theperfon that can fing that fong, in view ofdeath and the grave,Pfal. xlviii. 14 “ This“ is my God,. he will be my guide even“ unto death,” O how happy is he thatcan fay, when his eye-ltrings ihall begin tobreah, “ Though I walk through the lhadowtk of death, yet will I fear no ill ; for 1 know“.the Lord is with me ?” If death find >ouin an eftranged Hate from God, I defy theangels in heaven to free you out of thatHate. Therefore, I fay unto each of you*44 O prepare to meet thy God!” Halle,hafte in time, and come out of the land ofyour captivity, and from the honfe of vourbondage, and takeGhrift for your Redeemer.Amen.F I N I 5.