****THE*!|j Musical Charmer,^ A|(( COLLECTIONL(§OF FASHI0NABLS« O N G S,)*)\?!!|If)$)515}§)5N)5)5) 4T)5—' , . V *-Ur. ^ J^^., ...-V, <f>■^(LpV»“OF SCOtlOKU V)§($[V SCOTCH, ENGLISH, & HUSH,eI:;;LLk§i§i<2*5 -—• —* v_-» «<r7'. *0^. »>3^»i-altar's:PRIKTEO & SOLD BT T. JOHN8TOF,1819.TEEMusical Charmer,£grc.K080DY GUMING TO MaRRY ME». Last night the dogs did bafk,l went to th^ gate to fee,,When ev’ry lafs had a ("park,Lut nobody comes to me.And it's oh i dear, what will bscome of me?(Jit! dear, what lhall 1 do?Nobody coming to marry me,Nobody coming to woe.My father’s a hedger and ditcher,my mother does nothing but fpin,And I’m a picttj young girl,but the monev come fbwlv in.* * #And it’s oil! dear, &o.They fay Pm beauteous and fair,they fay Tm fcorr.ful and proud;Alas! f muft now defpair,for, ah ! I am grown very old.And it’* oh! dear, &c.D 2*4And now I mu ft die an old maid!O dear.’ iiow ftiockin^ the thought 1And ali rnj beast)' niuft fade,tjnt I’m fare it is not my fault.Aod it’s ob ! dear.Th« Banks of tne Dtvos.<il,)w pieafant the barksof I n- clear wind!, <_• Devon,With ^ieen fnrtaauv bullies,and fl.iw rs blogm ng ia:r !But the biitnielt ti w ion the banks of the Devon1,5\'ai onefe a fweet badeon rbe braes of ’he Air.JUiLd be tiie Sunon this fweet blufhing flower^Ja the gay rcf\ mornas it bathos in the dew;And gentle the fallof the foft verdant fhower,-J'liat deals 6n the evening,each leaf to renew.O fparc the dear blofotxt,yc orient breeres,W ith chill hoary wing. .as yc tifher the dsvnt}5And far be thou diftanfr,thou reptile, that feiztftThe verdure and prideof the garden and lawfl.Let Bourbon exultin her gay gilded lillies^And England, triumphant,difplay her proud ro£c ;A fairer than eitheraderns the green valiiej;Where Devon, fweet Devonmeandering flaw?.i-=4.BLYTHE WAS SHE.By Ju Aitertyre grows the aik,If arrow bank*, the birken ihaw;Bu> Pheraie wa* a bonniei laisthan braes of Yarrow ever Caw.Blythe, btythe and merry was Qie,blyti.e was the but and bea ;Blyth.: bv the batiks of Eam,an- blytne in Glenturit giep;Her look- weie like a flower in »ilay,her f/n n was hke a fumaier morn j•She tnpptd b> tii* barks oi Earn,as light ' « biro upnQ a uorn.Blytne, &o.6AULD LANGSYNis.Should auld acquaintance be forgot,an' ncvei brought to mind?Should auld acquaintance be forgot,an’ days o’ iangfyne ?For auld langfyne, my dear ;for auld langfyne ;We’ll tak a cup o’ kindnefi yet,for auld langfyne.We tvra hae run about the braes,an’ pu'd the gowan; fine ;But we’ve wander’d tnony a weary fit,fin’ euld langfyne.For auld langfyne, &c.We twa hae paidelt in the burn,whan fimmer day*- were prime.But fras between ut braid hae roar’d,fin' auld langfyne.For auld langfyne &c.An’ there s a hand, my ttufty feire,a.n’ gies a iiand o’ thine.An’ we'll toum the cup to ftienc’lhip’s growth,an’ auld langfy te.For tutld langfync; &c.7An’ finely ye’ll be your pint-flcup,as fuie as I’ll be mine;An’ we’ll tak a right glide willie waught,for auld langfync.For auld langfyne, my dear,for auld iangfyne,We1!! tak a cup o kindnefs yet,for auld langfync.o==oHIGHLAND MARY.Ye banks and braes, and ftreams aroundthe Caftle o’ Montgomery,Green be your woods, and fair your flow’rsjyour waters never drumiie :There fimme> firfl unfauldt her robes,and there they langefl tarry jFor tiiere I took the laft fareweelof my dear Highland Mary.How fwectly b'oom’d the gay green bi'klH ;w ric.i tne hawtho: nVblofsom,As U'.idenieath their fragrant ihade,1 clafp’d ter to my bofom 1The gvdotn ..u rs, on eagle-wings,flew oTr me and my dearie ;For dear o m a; ligi.t and lifewes my fweei Highland ilstry*VfV mony a vow and lock'd embraceour pai ting wai fu’ tender !And pledging aft to meet again,we tore ourftlves afunderBut oh! fell death’s untimely froft,that nipt my flow'r fo early ;Now g>-een s the fad, and cauld’s th* clathat wraps my Highland Mary. vO pale, pale now, thofe rofy lips,I aft hae kili’d fae fondlyAnd clas d for ay the iparkiing glaucs-that dwelt on me fae kindly !A ad mouid'ring now in lilent duft,that xsart that lo’cd me dearly tBut lii!l within my bofom’s care,£hall live my Highland Mary*MARY’s DREAM.The moon had eiimb’d the higheft hillywhich rifes o’er the fource of Dee,Aud from the caftern furatmt diedher (liver light on tow’r ar d tree.When Mary laid her down to fl «p,ticrjthoug»t« on Sandy far at f<a;When foft and low a vo ce war heard,fay. Maty, 'rcep no mors for ms.9She from Kitr pillow g, itly raw’dhe n ad ! afle > tnrre mi .lit be)She law v -'j . -.’ 'ianay fliiv rh itand,wii vifti.’c pate an . oliow eve.O Ma y near, coia i>: my clay,it lies bsncatl. a ftonri' feu;Far. far from t ee flerp in death:So, Mary, weep no more f n me.Three ftoraiy nigiits and ftonny cayswe tofs’d upon the ragm ■ mam ;And long we tlrove ur bark to Uve,but ail our ftriviug was in vaiu.Ev’- in n, wiieti uorror chill d nr; blood,m\ nr art was fill’d with love tarttse* ;The ft n ni it paft. atid I’m at reft,fo. Mary, Wuep no more far me.Q maiden dear, thyfelf prepare,we foon fliall meet upon that /bore,Wh.tre love ts fire fri»m doubts and care3and tiioB and l fhali part no more,i.oud crow’d the cocle. t: e fhadow fisd,no more of Sandy could flic fee jEat foft the pafling fpirit laid.Ewait Mary, weep no tuore forxoJOHN ANDERSON, MY JOE,John Anderson my joe, Jonn,when we weie firft acquaint,Your lock? wire like the taven,your bonny brow was brent ; .But now you’re turned bald John,your lock, are l;ke the fn >w,Yet bleffings on your frofty pove.John Andcifon, my joe.John Anderfon. my joe, John,ye were my fir/l conceit;And ay at kirk and market.!’ve krpt yi u tnm and neat;There’s fime folk favs your failing, John,but 1 fcarce b -Iif.ve it’s fo, .For you’re ay the fame kind man to me,John Andeifon. my Joe.} ihn Andcrfon, my jrc. John,we’ve feen our bairns’ bairns.And yet, my dear John AiffTerfon,I’m happy in your arms ;And fac are yc in mine, John,I ni lure ye’ll ne'er fay no,Tho’ tlic days are gane that wc hae feen,John Anderfon, my joc.John Anderfon. mv joe, John,our filler ne’er was rife;IIAnd yet we ne’er faw poverty %fin’ we were man and wife ;We’vr av 'a n b;r and brat, John;great bkffi g-- here belowAnd tha‘ hclp> to keep peace.at hams,John Anderfon, my joe.John Anderfon, my'joc. John,the warld lo’es us baith ;We ne’er fpake ill o neighbours , ofca,nor did them ony Ikaith :To li ve in peace and quietnefswas a’ our care, ye know;And I’m fui e they 11 greet when we are dead,John Aswierfon. my jse.John Anderfon, my joe, John,frae year to jear we’ve paft.And foon that year maun com.e, John,will b ing us to our lall;But lema that affi ight us. John,oUr hearts were ne’er our foe,While in innocent delight we liv’d,John Anderff.ii, my joe,John Anderfon. nn joe. John,we clamb the hill thegither.And m. i'v a canty dav. John,we ve had wi’ ane-amti'er;JIow we mau,' totter oown. John,but hand in hand wc 11 go,And we’ll fleep the,, v er till we dif,John Anderfon, my jee.12Maggie and Wabfler Jack#Priscrve U' Joanny TyouVc tranlocnu roony*I fhougnt . faw them a' wp mV een ;But tho’ ye Ikin (^tm up fu’ bonnie,y« re no rich as ye wad feem :Tbe loom, for guid-falce. ride r.ae matr on her4ye’ll break her back, flic's falfe at the bamesAmang tke traddiee ye’ll iigiit wi’ diflionoar,ye’re no fac rick as ye wad fean.Your headles art af.ld, your kavels are rotten,v>'ur fliuttle's a lazy jade, 1 ween ;Your tra^idUs but aruie. twa *’ them broken:Ye're no fae i ieh as ye^wad feem»1 douna think on cawing y> ur pirns,you’ll ay be gin in’, and ay at hame;X doubt you’ve ftcun your tcate o’ yam:ye’re no fe rich a* ye wad feem.For a’ your mug and (linking fowen,1 rather wad has a c. gfn’ o’ ream :QonMTiend me to a lad that has a’ growing:ye re no fo rich as ye wad feem.1 fgw the pot ye got from Holland,reaming wi wafli a-hint your loom,To lay the tnuzic liair on the plaiden :vc’ie mi fac rich as ye wad feem.A fpurrlc J«huny, is eafy gotten,oov . iiick may do tha»is clean!But Vf s the meal t«> mek toe brofo?ye’re ho fo rich as ye wad icem.Tour hugpar an’ fa’t is b!ec!c and rcekct,wac! poifon a few, it’s lav frai cl?an ;An' wha wad marry a man for a j*ekcf?ye're no fac ric'n as ve wad (cem.Yc brag me wi’ tlie ba'f o’ year berrin,but i cou’d cat a haJe.cne mvfel:I doubt your Irvin will be ba (harin’,ye’re no fae rich as yr w-d feem.About your buffen (’!! fay but i it tie; .but what s iu the k ft fa n wad ken:Idoub', ! d' ubt it s as dry’- a w.iftle;ye’re no fae neb as ye wad feem.But tho’ your purfe ba Wank an' hollow,it’s hard ui fay yet w at may be done:But after a’ ye’re a cants fc low,> no (be rich as ye wad Uitn.Sac tab your plaid about sou Johncy,a d c me y'urwa np^by at e’en jl like a lad that's bnfc a: d bonny,tho’ no fge rich as lie wad feem.The H&ppy SotmEa-How happy • th* Soldier who lives on id* pay,And fp«nds hall-a crnwi-cui o) fixperc* a-dayl-Yi ■ ai i iien l .rr juftii'i Wi r ants - nor burns,But pays all hi- d. h ■ un i.tii roll cfhis diunvWith a rew-dc-uow. 5tc.B14H* ca^es not a marvsdy how ths world e;os»,Hi' IG:i4 finds him qinrrsrs, & m.>:i«v & clothes}H,’ iao hs at all forrow whenever it c.'incs.And rattles avs-ay with the roll of the dium.With a row-do-dow, See.The drum is his fflo’y. hi; j y. and deligjit;It lead* him to plratura as well a-s delight;No girl, wh»i die luars it, tho’ ever fo glum,Bui packs up h»r tatters and follows the drum.With a row-dc-dow &c>Ntil Gow’s Strathspey.Of a* ths fp'idgs that e’er were play’d,out-o’er at Hafabic s Hawc,JVhar ■i'lia-i faog. t:«t canty blade,there’s *enf like Nth G6w.Let ilka fitrra1'' #.et an’ ftrang,Tak up his la- ie wi a bang, «An' fit the floor ’he bale day 'ung,For b niny Neil Gow.Young Daiicon in the higi Lon' glen,gang‘ wi.iAHn’ at the plow.Till i ka ftrath, an’ brae, an fen,ittfounds vvi Neil Q w.Let ilka ftin ah &c.15© happy fight! to fee the p!a(4flung dovrn upo the know,While ilka fuppie Celtic bladecries. Up Ntil Gow.Let ilka dirrah. &c. ' 'Tlicre’s Jack out-o'er his kan o’ grog,abaft the Vessel’s prow,Wi’ glee he tipples out his cog,an’ firtgs out Meii Gow.Let ilka flirrah. Stc*The Sodgsr, new come frae the warj,-svill hirple as he dow.An’ wag his fit, for a’ his fcan,,to canty Neil Gov.Let ilka Li trail, &o.The Cotter, at hi, ingle-cheek,fits npddin’ o’er tiie Jew,But waken-Mm, an’ gar mm fpeak,he’ll cry for Neil Gow.Let iika Lirrah. &c.o o oDown the Burn Davie.When trees did bud. and fields were green,and brO'itn bio m’d fair to fee,When Mary was complete fifteen,and levs iangh’d in her e’e ji6Blyth D^vlcV Winks her heart'did moft,to i'pvnk her mind thus tree.Gang down the burn. Davie, love,and ! thall follow thcc.Blythe Davie’s blinks, Sto.N.-w Davie did each lad furpiafs,tiiai dwelt on the burn-Jide,And vJary was the bonnieft lafs,juft meet to be a bride :Her cheeks were rofy rtd a d white,her een were bonny biu:Her lo ks were bk.- Auiora bright,her lips like dropping ctw.Her cl’.etks, &c.As down the burn they took their waj,w'hat tender taks they faidHis cheek to her’* ha aft did iay,anti on his flute he play’d:They walk d and talk’d till weary grown*.no pair wae e’er more bleft :Xh yonder vale they lean’d them downjand loving tales rehcarfl.They talk’d, &9.Thus chearfnily thefe lovers lay,there nothing was unmeet:And, ganging Ivfime, l heard them fitjvtft?y lik’d a wairfc fac f»ctt}/17And that they «ftcn would return,fuch pleafure to renew :Quoth Mary, love, I like the burp*and ay Chall follow you.And that they often, &C.-—X—I’ll prie yoar bonny Mou’, Lissi^.Gome gie’s a kifs, my bonny laf*,and Uan upon my bofom O,Gr wi' yere fweet Sips prie the glafy,’twill tafte like rofes’ bletsom O :Tho’ feated ’mang an unco hive•’ blythfomc cniels for dHnkin’ Q}Wha wi’ the cap and noggie ftriveto drown their cares and thinkin’C£Iv)HUS.I’ll prie ycre bonny mmi, lassie,weel )e wi a warmin’ kifs,For nane but vou my true lassie,can bellow fie charmin’ biifs:This a’ n>y dower a heart foa’ leal,a sendom gift at-rhymin’ O;A mmd that’s made to think an’ fe«l^nor at my lot repinin’ O.A loving wifh to niak’ you mire,a faul which bve you dearly O :Sae ye may mak’ my lairdlhip thine,I vs tauld them a’ dncerely O.l-’ll prie yere bonnie raou’ lissis./18Sae fang t fe rhf {Jennie maic,and pried her lovely iippiff O;litr rofy cheek to nilne 1 laid,and took ihe ’titiicr fippie,While wobHer Joeic, wi’ gloarm'e gJoty',bang't cp the miJtfchk'n pinkie O;And when i fcifVd her tiyfled flow’r,lie diidit it in the ingle O.I’ll prie yerc bonnie mou , Igesti*Kis bardfbip at the ingle fat,wi’ mufin potions dizny 0»Gae thro’ Pegafus’ wings a keefc,my ilar: 1 a bonnie i> zzie O. 'Hs fwnre by Heliconian fp mg,nae mair to mount Pegaiur O;His fa c.c-} foar^d on higlier wing,emoug toe bonnie la *ts O.i'll ptic yere bonnie mou’ lassie,A liame-fnnr. loon, wi’ bonnet blue,the gillxftoup v.a? cartssin’ O,Cries, Wow the WaWdY turn'd, f trow,foi- fin is grac- embiEcin* O!A t> »gh-tried faunt, ) Cameron-race,gstPd wi' tree gofptl-raptme O.And crier. My bairn o1 gifts c1 grace,ye co*) a bonnie chaptr,! (1>Ml prie yere bonnic mou' lassie, *Jily thrillin' heart wi- lovin' beat,ag&infl my breafi gads iliunspin4 0 JvMy bluid smi^d wr genial l;cat,in flowin'1 tides ran juri pin' OtHer een like ftamei fet in blue,tier face fas mildly blophjin1 O,Her tender fmilc (ic witc- craft thres?,,.wad nature s felf illumine O.1-il prie ye re bannie meu- lassie^Tiioc tou^h frae nature's quarry torn,nor poliih'd by in ft ruction O,Maun bide tire touts o' leainin's hern,and College-taught correction O.I l.se a faul and dauntin' be2if,Whae'er was the creator O,That foar-s aboon tire fetter'd art,to gifts ne'er gien by nature O.id! prrs yere bsnnie thou lassie,.Tho' now my yowhfu' bluid be warm,O ra'rib’s wing my tvfsses O,And fancy ftill has power to charma figh frae ‘mang the lasses O,III (tore up a - my love for thee,„and prefs yeu to my bofom O ;Your wifebnrs blossom will pieaAne mswlien si! has C:opt yerc blossom O,l‘IJ pris yerc esfluib rliou‘-lejs*t...20THE UNCO BIT WANT.2 am a young Lafs in my prime,my ags it is juft twenty-on# ;I think it a verv fit timeto buckle myleif to a man iI‘ve ba:tn bread and kitchen nac (caef,[ gang i' the fafliionfu4 bra tv •,Yet ftill I've an uuc*> bit want,tiiat falhes me trtaii than them ac^■chorus.For I‘m ripe, an'* ready, ans a4,ready, aa‘ tipi', an1:a- ;1 wifli 1 may get a bit man,before that my beauty gae wa*iA‘ day as l fpin wi‘ my tnitfeor,and lilt over myfi!‘ a bit fang,How Lasses ank Tads gang thegitherj,0 fiis but it gars me think langlIn bed L am like to gang crazy,1 dream, 1 row. an- I gawnf,IVhere I might be lying fir aafv,wereft no f*r this ur.co bit Want.For Lm ripe, &c.Young VndtLw comas whiles in th# glotnin*,ah’ draw- in a Jt^tl'b' mv fide.But i c's ay faa flesd for a Woman,that sftea ids face he maun hies i21I Acer up rhv temper-itring gayly,a)' Millie- a bi^verfe will rant;Youn^ w rut' uu ken maun be wylfieytaat ma* »p that unco bit want*.For I’m ripe &c.Am thiokitv fo.nenmes. w'r.en.iie-s riSiig,to mak a bit Aep the door.An* ra fe a wee crack that's cnjtifing,p;ri«ps that tie kemna afore.A,!T O if tae laddie wad tak me,an- raife a bit canty wee rant;’There's naethting fnair picafurc wad gie Dtfljfor tiiatb jufttmy urcirbit want.For i in ripe See.Yocs!<> ANDREWS REPLY.Sweet Laf., 1 approve o1 yoOr plan,l think that you’re wife Lr to knit,An*1 buckle yourfcl- to a man ;for kiisinjr it’s new yon uie fit.V/hat tao’’ you ve filks for to drefs ycu'jan‘ plenty ol baith roaft ait1 raw.Yet you want a bit man for to kifs you,tup keep your cauld back irat tlic waL’W’eW k:f'. an‘ cudcilf, an* a1,cuddle, 'sit kifs. an- a';An’ ance we were buckl'd the githtfr*our joys ihcy flia’iue be fina’lTo hear how that Tthers get marry’-d,aa’ ve (It a-i live at your tn\v-rn fure it’s oflite y u are weary’d,with 'ivht-el an’ it a in a lew!The pain you ensure ttro’ ty-* night,it makes you.to tumble an’ gaunt;But ytung Andicw he’; bait!; biytn an’tiga;i weel cati lupplv y^ tir bit want.We'll i-ifs. &o.At e'en whe* ye came wr' yrur ftocking^you the ught ! wa wo; d rt u- fl.-c.k,Tho- aften ey j-ering an4 jr eking,an wtiihes your bit nv • I did fmack*As on the green grab we did tumble,O how tiiy bit heart it aid pant!Thru ne‘er gied a pe< p nor a giunrlcjwidle 1 d'o flipp y v< u bit want.Well kifs, &c.At <(‘011 wh.en I rife to gae hame,were yc to gi‘e me a convoy.As fure as young Andrews my nemejin love we JJ eaeh other enjoy.Then lassie MI ay be thine ain,of me ye may loltily vaunt ^23I{il eafs o{ thy grief an*an‘ always fupply thy bit want.We1-!! krfs. Ike,Wi‘ joy it-sfhe bang‘d out her han^ ,your tffer, dear lovn, 1 accept;I vow that young Andrew s the manI aiways will daut hks a pet. ,Thou joys of joys I'll tailedfor whinh L-ve gi‘cn mony a gaent;By young Anircw ifs now ibn crnbrac4,an4 weei lie fupplics my bit want.Wed! kiffi. an- ctn'dle, an* a‘,cuddle, an- kif- an* a‘;It s lo w ne*i buckl'-d thegithef',fliart joys tiic largaft o4 a.-.THEBRITISH GAME.COCK.At Waterloo.Coxtempi.atikg the feather’d flock,From the Ostrich to the Craw,There’s nans o’ them can sing a SangLike Cocky-leary-law.The Rook she builds upon the Pi nth,The Swallow to the >va’,24Set the proud Game-Cock on midden-top,■ Sings Cocky-leary-law.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-law:He claps his wings, in proud disdain.Sings Cocky-leary-law.How lovingly he tents his flock,And courts them ane and a’ \Then chears them up with his proud sang.Sings Cocky-leary-law.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-lawrThen chears them up with his proud sang,Sings Cocky-leary-law.Hie Sparrow chirps on the house-top,The Ravin and Jackdaw,But the noble bird, in spite of a’,*. Sings Cocky-leary-law.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky leavy-law:But the noble bird, in spite of a’,Sings Cocky-leary-law.The Magpye is a cunning bird,The Dow's without a gaw,But there’s nane has courage to disputeWith Cocky-leary-law.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-law:jJut there's nane has cohrage to dispute*With Cockr-ieary-law-'NS5tfjierc were Eagles bright, and Eagles brovf«/,\nd some as'black's a Craw;But it‘s now well kent they've a' gen upTo Cocky-leary-iaw.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-la\y:But it's now well kent they've a' gen upTo Cocky-teary-Iaw. ,In the morning about three o'clock, ^Ke clteers them with .his craw,Invites all hands, baitli high and lowjTo do their duties a*.Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-law rInvites all hands, baith high and low,To do their duties a':Cocky-leary-law.With sword in hand he will contendWith foes baith gieat and stna';Nor e'er give up, but with last breatl}Sings Coeky-leary-law':Cocky-leary-law,Cocky-leary-law: * ^Nor e'er give up, but with last breatl)Sings Cocky-learj -law.v C26THE BARKING BARKER.Ye gents give ear to me, I pray,l am a barking Garber,The beft accommodation have;keen razors and hot latt er :Pray walk into my noted (hop,i (have a-' clean as any.And when t'vc done it to your mind,will charge you but one penny.Bow. wow. wow,I tm a barking Barber.Ye ragged pates, your hair HI crop,ana dief' it vafity prettyOr if ycin b! ck a-e bare, walk in,I warrant t can fit veWith bag or <jue prion, pig-rail,■ r brtihv wig or gr Zzl’d';So well be powder’d, ( ieon and white,and eke lb nicely fr zsl'd.Bow. WOW (Vi.W,oi'I gni a baiking Baiber.fMy (hep. well iundfh d out with L'cek-,become? an cx ibi ionOf head? <i nv’ry a t ai d kind,aid every conduion ;-7A Lawyer’s htad without a qu'itEjwithout chicane a Proftor's.A Lady’s head without a tongue,without a noftrum Doelor’i.Botv. wow. Stc.A Poet’s head without a rhyme,a With too without punning,With, in a crotc .et Pidler’s head,a Jockey’s without cunning:A Cuckold’s head devoid of horns,iiis \Viie’f without invention:A B .tbar ?-head without his brains;ami otiiert i c.mld mw-tion*Bow, wow. &e.And let none o.f the wicked witsdefpife my occupation,The gi cater always fiiavcs the left,in every rank and ftalion.The nch will ever fusvs the poor,the Mitiiflcr. ■'.n't pleafe you.Will iac cr you wi ;h-prouofes,ant^fhavc you tiiighty ealy.Bow. wow. &c.And Shaven keen 1 trow there ere.of evmy profeffi n;But pardon now, my cuflomcrsjtins whimilcnl digrefiion,C ajAtsd walk into my fioted fticp,.[ ihave as clean as any,/ni when I’ve di ne it to your rnindjwill charge you but a penny.Bow wow, wow,I am a barking Ember.* .'The Little Cottage Maitlef^'Fbotj placa to pises I travers’d long,devoid of care or f -rrow;With ijglttfome heart, and merry feng,l theught no: of to-merrow:But wi-eii Pi iieiiia-caught.my eye,with every chain) array’d in,I ilgh’d and fn-ng, I knew not why,dear little Cottage-Maiden.A.’.d wcu'd the charmer be but mine^fvVitt nymph, I lo revere ti.ee.I'd gladly (hare my fate with thine,•‘and evermore bs reaV thee.Tho’ gold may pieafs the proud and gre#t,mv heart with love is'laden;Then let m job in wedlock Hate,dUr Ikllfi CuUsge-M deer.29\)’er ms and mine, come miflrtis prGYtfj'and then what ill can harm us JKind Hymen will each fear remove,and fprsad each fweet to charm us;Together we will live content,and nought but love will trade itljSo fwectly thail our lives be fpent,dear little-Cottage-Maiden.KATHERINE OGIE;As walking forth to view the plain,upon a morning early,While May’s fweet feent did'chcar mybfainyfrom fiow'rs whic i grew fo rarely jI chanc’d to meet a pretty maid,/he Qiin’d, tlio’ 4 was foggie,I a/k'd her name. Sweet Sir, /he faid,my name is Katherine Ogie,I flood a while, and did admireto fee a nymph fo flateiy !'So bri/k an air there did appearin a country-maid fo neatly 1Such natural fweetnefs /he difplay’d^'like a lily in a bogie,Diana’s feif was ne’er array’dkke this fame Katherine Qgi^• e,3©• Thou flow'r of females, beauty’s (juserr,wl.o fees thee, fuse p.iuft pr z; thee;Ttio’ thou art drefs’cTiii robes but tnean,yet thete can not difauife thee :Thy hattdfouie air, and graceful look,far cxcells thy clotvnifh rogie ;Tiion’it match for laird, or lord, or duks,'my charming Katherine Ogie.O were but I a fhepherd Twain,"to feed my fuck befids thee ;At bugluing time to ka'-e the plain, ,in milking to aloide thee;I’d think myfelf a happier man,with Kate, my club, and dogie,Than he that lings his ilioufands ten,bad I but Katherine Ogie.Then I’d defpife th’ imperial throne,and Statefmen’s dangerous fw.ijns;I’d be no king, I’d wear no crown,'I’d fmile at cSnq'ring nations,Might I carcfk, find ftill pos-essthis lass, of whom I’m vogis ;For thefi; are toys, and full look lefs;’compar’d with Katherine Ogic.But I fear it fas not been d,creed *>for me fj fi ic a creature,Wh‘fe beauty rare makes her cxieedSul other tyorks in nature.• . 31Clouds of cjerpair farround n;T Icvf^ •tliat a e both dark find foggic :Pity my life, my lovely dove,cr i’i! die for you, Katherine Ogie,0=r<). Charming Young Nancy.- Some fings of fvreet Molly,fome lings of f«ett JVeliyjAnd fjme calls young Sufanthe caufc of their pain;Some love to be'jolly,and fame melancholy,And fome love to fingof the' Humours of Glen :But my chide A fancyis'my •d&areft Nancy,In venting my'passionI’ll ftrive to be plain ;.For 1 elk no more treafare,I'll feck no more pleafure#But then, my dear Nancy,if ye were my ain.Bor her beauty delights me,her kindnefs invi'es me «Her matchlefi behaviouris free from all ftain I'3;*Ker carriage Is comely,her language is homely ;Her drefs is all dainty,take it in th£ main iTherefore, my dear jewel,do not pi ove fo ci nel;Gonfent, mv dear Nancy,and come be my ain»The whole of her face,is, with blooming grace,Array’d like the gowansthat grows in the glen :For her yellow locks fliining^and beauty combining;My charming young Nancyi if ye were my ain !She’s well lhaped and flendef,true hearted and tender :My charming young Nancyif ye were my ain !For I H daut her with kisses,and lovely embraees;I’ll fing her fvveet fongswith the flrengtli of my brairtjBelieve me^my deary.I’ll.Hill hold thee cheary,My charming young NanSyif y; were my ain.35Yx>r I’ll fearch all ilia nationfor a t-iabitatian.To guard thee, my dear.y,from cold fuow, and rain;Then you (hall not fit fingle,but by a good ingle.JrJy charming ycung Nancy;if ye were my ain 1For I’ll work at my calling,to furnifb a dwellingWith every 'thing needful,thy life tw fufia n :Therefot e, my dear jewel,do uot prove cruel ;Content my dear Nancy,and come be my ain.I will have a garden,- 'my ci aiming young maiden,For frclh recreation,to fright away pain;To walk in when wsary,to comfort my deary.My charming young Nancv,rf ye were my ain.I would make true afteftiontthe enly directionFor loving my Nancy,while life doth retaaitf.34AhW youth be wafting,aff 'n is lafti-igMy charming young Nancyif ye wcie niv aiutBu wiiat 'f my Nancyftiailld aUer nei fancy,And favour another,for h n U! and gain ?\ would not compel 'ier, 4bu. pli'nJv w ui'd till her,Begone sou f# f- Nancy,ye.’.' ne’e- b-. mv ain.MV SAIL >R DE^R.You'tnaidsns pr .tty. in to'*n and city,p ay n ar with pity mv mournful ftrainA niuidc 'i f u ' led in f>rrow cirowH?d,cud deeply -wopncied with grief and pain;Ail for the f.ke of a lovelv Sailor,I am ftill bewailing in milling tears;YViyift other maidens art fondly p'ayingj1 am grieving for my Sailor dear.Thro’ dale" and values thro’-ftiades and valiic^and all nr.otnd each lovely grove.Boil’d in f^eet flowers in fhadow bower;;,wc fpent foft hours in mutual lov: :,35How hj ‘tft ms, I do not Warns hinf,becanfe rny dailing wa' pi ef’t away ;It was for my fortune mv gresdy parentscontriv J to itava him fsnt to lea-Five thoufaitu prunds Isf’ by my ur.clc,btfide- four h'uridred pom ds g-ys-ar*It i for t!;at reafon they do difdain tiim,as he is bsdow them, ray Sadov dear.May every vengeance be their attendance,ti:at catidd. my da’rling to crofs the maial,For worldly treafure. and mv difolsafure,they parted us for the fake cf galn%Coaid. I C- ram and all the wealth in India,■ a1 d t: e g Id and filver far and near,I would foon refign even golden mines.•.and in tnaimgc joa. with my Sailor dear.* - *My hardened parent' fare: fprcial orders,that ! Orcu.d c.lofc co; fim c brV. it: L m v c. an he.r. free from all-danger,■ or kit J. Ihoulti my darling ice.Thir teen long weeks upon bread and wateri hv d, aou I ad no other cheer!Oh ! ciu. l ufage to give a daughter,■for loving of a Sailor dear.-Fortun* befriend him, always attend him,and ftiil defend him where'er he goe«;By land and water may angels guard him,while he s at. war with his country's focr.O that f were a nimble Sailor,no fears nor dangers would I fear,But freely enter, and bold!-/ venture,to range the fcas with my Sailor dear.Since now my dear has crofs’d the .ocean,I grieve alone with a bleeding heart!And fickle fortune, w hen is uncertain,has caus’d ray darling and me to pact.2Jo tnan fhali ever obtain my favour,my heart it loyal in bve fircsre:Tiil death deflroy me, none fhali enjvy ms,except my cha niing Sailor dear.The Poor Exile of Erin.Ti/fue cr.tn.- to the bec''h a poor exile •»(’ E-in;•Tfi* dew on his thin robe was heavy sod chill,For lus country lie figh'sl, when at twiii-ghtrepairingT6 wander alone b’. tne wino-bsaten hill rBm the dav (la- auraSed i.is eve.' lad devotion,For it rt.feov ids owrl native iflv- of the ocean.Where once, in the flow of hi; y u» fill '.motion,* He fung the bold anthem of Eiiu Go Bragh.31/ vOh! fad is my fate! (faui the lieart-brokenftrangei)The wild deer and wolf to a cover can flee;But I have no refuge from famine and f.anger!A home and a country remain not to ms!Ah! never again in the green funny bow’rs,Wiere my forefathers liv’d, fliall i fpend thefweet hours !Or cover mv harp wito the wild woven flow’rs!And ft: ike to the numbers of Erin Go Bi egh!Erin! my country, tho fad and foifakcn,Sr dreams ! rtvifit thy fea-bcaten flrore;But, alas! in a far foreign land ! awaken.And fign for the friend that can meet meno more!Ah! crusl Fate! win thou never replace me,In a maoOon of peace. Wotre i opu II can chafe me {Ah ! never again ihall rm broti ers embtace me'.They dy d do defend me. or live to otplote.Wliere it my cabin-door. faft. by the wild wood?Sifters and lire, uo ye w«ep for its fall ?Where is the mother that look don my childhood?And where is the bofom-fricnd dt-~rer than all ?Ah ' rhy lad foul! long abandon’d by plcafure,Wny oid it doat on a faft-fading treafure?Te ,rs like the rain-drop may fall witli'Hii meafurc^But raptuie and beauty t.,ey cannot recall.D38But yet all Us fond recollection furpafling,)oe dvinp with my fond bofom fliall drawijErin an exile bequ:aths thee Ills b'ciRng,Laed of my forefathers. Erin Go Bragh.Bu-ird and coid when mv heart (tills its motionG-reo be thy field', fwrei fle of the JceanlAnd thy harp-ftriki/ig hards fii'.g aloud withdevotionErm ma Vourneen Erin Go Bragb.II. '  Gude Forgi’e me for Liein*.Ae day a braw wooer cam. down the lang gleft\ o fai: wi’ his love ■ e dir deave me:But ! laid there was naerh ing 1 hated like menJ'he duce tak’ the lad to bfclieve me.A weel-ft' ck : m.ulen, himfei’ o”t the laird,An b iral aff ,aa’. war toe '(Ter;I never oo: on that • kend or car’o.Bu th ug.it 1 might ^et a vaur offer.He (poke o* tire dart* o’ mv bonny Hack ten ;Ai ‘ O! for mv love he’war. diein;I fa id might d*e w ar . e i.kct for Joail tThe gude forgi'e me tor liein .39But what do ye.think? in i, fortnight or lefs^^Hc ha* a poor ■ aile to gae near her)He’s down tq the cailie to black coufm 3efj;01 think how I coitld endure htrlAn a the nieft cuk as I fretted wi’ care,i gaed to the tryft o’ Duigarlock;An wha but my au'd fickle wooer was there,!.Wia fiar’d as if he’d feen a warlock,Out-ovrrc my left fhouther 1 gied hifti a blink^L-eft neighbours feou d fay l was fancy,My wooer he caper’d as he’d been in drink)And vow’d that l was a dear lafiie.I 1 peer'd for iny coufin, fu’ couthy and fweet,An’ if Ihe d recover’d -er rearin’? ,An' how my auld Ihocc fitted her fhachel’d feet?Gudc-faf* us how he fell u-fwtarin’ 1He begg’d mrt fargudefakc. that 1 d be his wife,)r clfe ; wad kill him \v forrow;An’ jnfl to preferve the poor body in life,I think i will wed him to-morrow.DzTHE BONNV HAWTHORN.Last midfuniner morning,as going to ths fair,I mot witli young Jamicjwar taking the air jHe aik'd me to flay,and indeed he did preraW,Beneath the bonny hawthornthat b'oorrs in the vale.That blooms in the valley,that blooms in the vale,Beneath the bnnny hawthorn,that blooms in the vale.He faid, he had lov’d meboth long and Gncere;That none on tiie green/ was f> gentle and fairjI liAen’d with pleafureto tender tale,Bsneath the bonny hawthornthat blooms in the vale.. That blooms, Sic,O hark, fays he. Nan;to the birds in the grove.Hew charming their long vand inciting to love 1The briars, blad with rofeS,perfums the paffing gale;And ftveet’t the bonny hawthot'8that blooms in the vale.That blooms, &c»His words were fo moving,and look, foft and kind,Convinc’d me the youthhad no guile in his mindjMy heart too. confefs’d himtne flower of the dale,Beneath the bonny hawthornthat blooms in the vale.I’hat blooms, &c.Yet I oft bade him go,for I could no Ion»er flay 5But leave me be would not,nor let me awayjStiil prtffing his fuit,and at laft he did prevail^Beneath the bonny hawthornthat blooms in the vale.That blooms, &c.Now tell me, ye maids.How couid 1 1 efufc ?His lips they were fwcet;and fo binding his vows?P342We went aed were raarry'd,and Jamie loves me Aill;And we live befidc the hawthcrothat blooms in the vale.That blooms in the valley,that blooms in the vale;We live betide the hawthornthat blooms in the vale.o o oThe Mariners of Britain,’Ye Mariners of Britain,that guard our native Teas,Whofe flag lias brav’d, a thoufand year?*the battle and the breeze,Your glhrious Standard launch againjto Tnatch another foe,And fweep thro’ the deep,whila the flormy tempefts blow. .While tlie battle rages long and loud,t and Uie flonny tempers blow.The fpjrit of your fathersfhail dart from ev’ry wave;For the dcclc it Was their field of fame,the ocean was their grave;Where Blake, the boati c»f Freedom, fought^your manly hear It ihatl glow,43As yt fweep o’er the c!e;p,while the ftormy- tempcfts t>lcw&While the battle, &c.Britannia needs no bulwark,no tow'r along the flecp;Her march is o’er the tnountain-wavejfher home is on the deep:With thunder from her native oak,the quells the floods below,Like the roar on the fhore,when the fiormy tempefts blow*While the battle, See.The meteor-flag rf Britain,fhall yet terrific burn!Till danger’s troub ad night depart,and the liar of peace return jThen, then ye ocean-warriors,our ■fang and feaft (hail flowTo the fame of your name,when the tempers ceafc to blow.When the fiery fight is heard no more^and th: teinpefh ceaie to blow.'^rsj44H*his is no mine ain Hobsc.O tl>i> is no mine ain houfe,I ken by the ringing o’t;Since vri’ my love Tve chang’dl dinna like.thc bigging o’t:For now that !’m young Robie’s bride.And miftrcfs of hi)> fire-fidc.Mine ain houfe 1 like to guid*,And pltafe me wi’ the trigging o’t»Then fareweel to my father’s houff^l gang where love invite: me1)The flridi-R duty tiiis allows,when love with honour meets m«tWhen Hymen moulds us into ane.My Robie’s nearer than my fkin,And to refufe him were a fin,Sae Jang’s he kindly treats me.When I am in mine ain houfe,true love fiiall be at hand ay,To make roc ftiil a prudent fpouA:,and let mv man c •mmand ay ;Avoiding ilka cauf: of firife,The common peft of married life.That makes ane weary of his wife.Breaks U*e kindly band ay.45SONG OF WONDERS.What a wonderful ape ’ti? my lads L.and what wonderful people live in it!We’ve wonderful mammies and dads 1frefh wonders arife every minute 1We’ve wonderful fh ps in cur Kavy!and wonderful Soldier- and Sailors !We’ve wonderful beef fuH'uf gravy,and wondeiful cabbage for tailors!Tol. lol.We’ve woncertul D 'dlcrs call’d quackr,vs* wonderful puffs in tie Papers,U uil you roof; wo.-.derlul tfcdt*and cut yrm mi fi wc deitul capers!■^ith cne little woi etrlul Pill,i: ev av’ry diforder keep under !And ,f 'iity -can’t cure, they can kilVe 'and. pray. whcVr the dff rence. 1 wonder3Tol, lol.Tr^e a peep ?t ou: wo; dfiful Ladies,tiiey look all fo woi dertul prety;Each wig new fo wonderful made is,’twill fuit gret. aubun . or jcity.We’ve woaceifu fine puppet-fin \vs,with wonderful fightr to be '' leers!We've wondetfui l.-oor- for the beaux,and coau made with wonderful fhouldcrslTol, lol.4^VJa Had wonderful foes on tHe feas!who k-ck’d up a wondeiful riot;But *»w beat t' cm with wonderful cafe,arrdj them, they wont remain quiet.In Egvpt (what wondttful w rks')ttie f ie eh. with tneir .»reat u'‘cU»taker,WthJ to take tiie whole land fr m ’hr inks.But they could ne t take one fingle leRt.Tol jo!.Ko v Po'iey. fo wonderful clever,will invr.de us a? ft: * as <i j'un;So let him re 1! find t at e neverexntrienc’^i fuc wondeiful tun sHi- feare-cr<;W! i threatens a-e ready,a’ Boulogne at Calais and BredWhile our Soldiers and Sailors fi> fiea 'y,Cry, Lads how we’ll ft.liter his nculFol, lol.But the vrondciful winder of ail,and wo: der uj true they nave found it.Is that Britain, fi> wonderful fmallfh ulct awe the great iiatious around it lHuzza ! for each Soldier a’d far.at figi-tinfct fo wonderful cleverWhtn we’ve fii ilh’d this w tnierful war,we may fhout Wonderful Butovsfor ever!3^pl, lol, &e.47THE KING’* ANTHEM.Fame let thy trumpet found !Tell all the world aroundGieat Geokge is King!Tell Rome ana France, and SpaifltjBiutannia fcorns their chain;Al1 their vile arts are vain,Great Geojige l , King !We viill his life defend,And make his power extendW ide as his lame 1Mai choiceft hi- lungs, (bedGn i.ikVxalted head,An>. ni^kc hi, foes t<> dreadGreat Geokge, our King !He Peace and Plenty brings,m lie Rome’s deluded K ngstVafle and d.-ftrov.Then let nis people fiog.Long live great George our KingFrom whom fuch bi flings fpnng,Freedom and j y.esLd-'j. srLr.- ■ €..s—i1 'j ■JL'rrsFINIS.42THECONTENTS;coming to marry me, - - P^Gi 3The Bank* of D.-von. - * 4-Blythe was She. &c —Auld Langfyne, - 5. 6H'^hland Mary—Mary’s Dream, - - 7 8John Anderfon my joe, - - .... toMag’ie and WabAer Jock. - . - - - t2The Hapoy S ddicr, - - -..--15Neil Gow’s Strathfpey, - . - ... 14Do *n the burn Davie. - - - - - - 15I’ll orie yerc bonny mou’ Lassie, - - - 17The unco bit want, - » ......20Young Andrew's Reply. - — - - - - irT|y BritiGi Gamc-G'ek. - ..... 23The barking Barber. - ------ 26The little Gonagy-Maiden, - .... 28Catherine Ogie --.....-29Charming young Nancy, - ... - - 31Mv Sailor dear, - .---.--34The Poor Exile of Erio. 36Code forgi'c me for Lisin’ - - - - - 38The bonny Hawthorn. - . - 40The Mariners of Britain - ... - - 42This is no mine ain houfe - - ... 44Song of Wonders— ''be King’s Anthem. 45 4$— • r~VALKIRK—T. J HXSTOII, FAINTER.X819.