THE*yMANO FD U N S E.Containing an Account of the -C A SUI STRY\OF THERev. Daniel frazer,Weaver in Dunse.with ADESCRIPTION of his HOBBY-HORSE—and his FAREWELL to his CON-SCIENCE.By DANIEL M‘RONALD.- 'Circa hac tempore—Certamen commijjiim eft. In quo iota fereFrafcriorum familia eft extinffa. Krat inter eos & Re.gina/dinos vetia odium. Fraferii pviciores, a pluribus ViHiotque ad unum Cxft. Buchanani Historia.Printed in the Year MDCCLXX.( 3 )THEMAN of DUNSE, bV.I Happened lately to fee a fmall Pamphlet, en¬titled a Dilcovery of the Sinfulnefs of famePrinciples of the Church of Relief, figned DanielFrazer. The Title railed my Curiofity, and Ibegan to read on Purpofe to find fome of thofefinful Principles which the Title promifed to dif-cover. But the Pamphlet might as well havebeen entitled, a Difcovery of the PhilofopherVStone;for after reading it twice over as carefully as Iwas able, I could only difcover that Daniel Fra¬zer was exceedingly angry, and for that reafonwas difpofed to abufe Mr Monteith, and to per¬vert a great many Palfages of Holy Scripture.This mode ft Writer informs his Reader in theBeginning of his Performance, that he has no Oc-cafion to make any Apology for publilhing thofeSecrets which he had difcovered by his Connexi¬on with the Relief Church; yet one would thinkhere was fome Occafion for an Apology, when hewag defigned to publilh fo much abufe againftMr Monteith, and the Holy Scriptures. Theredoes not appear to have been any moral Necelfityfor Mr.Fnizcr’s publilhing this Pamphlet; unlefsA 2 it( 4 )it was neceflary that the World fhould know hisFolly, and his Enmity againft Mr Monteith, andthe Gofpel of Jefus Chrifl.Mr Frazer, good Man, Ihews his Readinefs tofufFer Reproach for Religion, and his Zeal for•vindicating the Truth; but his Pamphlet affordsfome grounds of Sufpicion that the reafons of hjsCondudi are not quite fo difinterefted. The poorMan feems to have been troubled with the Spleen,and wrote this Pamphlet to give himfelf a littleEafe. And who can blame him ? Much Goodmay it do him. It was undoubtedly for theSake of his Health that he publifhed it. Hetells us that an Affair happened at Dunfe in theRelief Congregation there; and a dreadful AffairReader, it was : And what was it ? Mr Monteithwent and afliffod Mr Murray at Neivcajlle to dil-penfe the Lord’s Supper, which was looked uponby fome to be a Breach of Prefbyterial ChurchOrder:—for Mr Frazer paffes his Word for it,that Mr Murray is no Prefbyterian. There’s anAffair for you Reader f fuch another Affair wouldbe fuificient to ruin all the Churches in Dunfe,and Seceding Meeting Houfes too. Mr Monteith'sConduct was looked upon by feme to be a Breachof Prefbyterial Church Order. This PrefbyterianOrder feems to be very eafily difconcerted whenfuch fmall Matters make a Breach therein. Itis however a Mercy that all the People in Dunfedid not fee Things in the fame Light with Mr Fra-ztr, otberwife Mr Monteith would have been in a9 bad( 5 )bad enough Situation. Such Gehiufes as Frazerhave very firange Perceptions, and often feeThings which are invifible to Perfons of ordinaryCapacities. But how has this fame Frazer foundout the Secret that Mr Murray is no Prefbyterian ?The Seceders efpecially the Burgers have a won¬derful Sagacity, at finding out Matters of Re¬proach concerning other People. Mr Frazer isjuft as certain that Mr Murray is no Prefbyterian.as he is,-, that the folemn League and Covenant,and the Burgefs Oath are Oaths of the fame Signi¬fication, Tendency, and Import. It is as eafy tomake the New Teftament and the Alcoran agree asit is to reconcile the Aft and Teftimony, andthe Burgefs Oath. Honeft Daniel wants to havea Burger Meeting at Duhfe, and fuch as wouldattempt to hinder him are very idle- Why maynot Daniel have his pious play Things as well asothers? I can affure my Readers, that Mr Fra¬zer means no more than a Hobby-horfe. I willundertake to prove that there is no more Religi¬on in the Cafe than any Child profelils when heplays with his Rattle : But before I attempt todemonftrate this Faff, allow me to enquire into MrFrazer's Arguments whereby he proves thatMr Murray is no Prelbyterian.'tI. Mr Murray could not be admitted a Member of the Prdbytery of Relief, or 'he would norcome to Dunfe after he had accepted a Call fromthat Congregation.A 3XL-c 6 }II. JVilliom Mitci 'tel, a Member of the SelTion.told before the E'iders, that in his Prelence MiMurray condemn ed Synods, and Anemblies, andlaughed at them...III. Adam Dickifon informed Daniel Frazerfthat Mr Murray fneered at Mr Bojlon's Works,—Therefore Mr Murray is no Prefbyterian.There is Buckram for you Reader. Did you everhear a Point fo clearly proved. It is as plain fromthefe Arguments, that Mr Murray is no Prelby-terian, as that the folemn League and Covenant isproved from the New T elf ament to be an Ordi¬nance of Jefus Chrift under the Gofpel.But might it not happen that the Prelbeteryof Relief and Mr Murray might differ, and yetMr Murray be a Prelbyterian ? Prelbyterianshave not been more remarkable for Agreementthan other Denominations. Mightnot Mr Mur¬ray return the Call which he had receiv 1from the People of Dunfe, and ftill be a Prefby¬terian ? Might it not alfo happen that Mr Mur¬ray might laugh at Synods and Aflemblies, andfull remain a Prefbyterian ? There does not ap.pear to be any infallible Connexion betweenthefe Matters : I doubt very much if this fameDaniel Frazer vas defired to prove the Prafficeof Synods and general Aflemblies from the NewTeftament, if he could do it: I do not remem¬ber of the Word Synod applied to a Meeting ofClergyrueain all the NewTeflament; and, as for ageneral Affemblyj except the general Aflembly of\ the( 7 )the Church of the Firft Born I never mind of readingof any in that Book.Mr Frazer has forgotten to inform us whatKind of Synods and Aflemblies they were whichMr Murray laughed at. There are feveral Kindsof Synods, and Aflemblies in Scotland, whofe Pro¬ceedings are ready to excite the Rifibility of anyany Perfon who is not too far gone in the Spleen,as Mr Frazer appears to be.There is the Synod of Merfe and Tivotdale,and there is the aflociate Synod. Thefe Synods fre¬quently laugh at one another; and why mightnot Mr Murray enjoy the Privilege of Laughingat them both ? But neither good nor ill Hu¬mour will pleafe this Daniel Frazer : If we maybelieve his Word, Mr Monteith is in very bad Hu¬mour, and Mr Murray is in very good Humour-yet neither will pleafe poor Frazer. Pipe asyou will, Daniel will not Dance.But Mr Murray fiieered at Mr Baft on's Works.There, Reader, is an Affair for you. This is theCrime of Crimes—The Grief of Griefs, and whatis fit to bring Defolation on all the three King¬doms. Bojlon'% Work are laughed at; the Creamof Orthodoxy, the Standart of Popularity is laugh¬ed at! and was it poflible for poor Frazer, andthe Burgers to keep filent any longer ? Laugh¬ing is come to a great Height in thefe fmful Times.I have feen a Seceding Minifler laugh when hepreached, and what fhall poor Frazer do in themirth( 8 )mid ft of fo much Laughter. Indeed honeft Da¬niel, what can you do ? But put them all into theCave of Trophonius, and then you will Ipoil theirMirth, and reduce them to the Seceding Standardof Gravity. Seeing Mr Frazer is fo much grievedat Mr Murray, for laughing at Mr Bojlon'sWorks, I will Ihew him a few Paflages fromone of his Books, which if they do not makehim laugh they will certainly make him ftare.In Mr Bojlon's Treatife on .the Covenant of Gracethere is this memorable Paftage, “ Chrift in his laft“ -Will and Teftament 'did actually bequeath re-generating Grace, Juftification, Adoption, Sane*tification, and eternal Life to every :Sinner of A-dam’s Race ; and he adds, that Chrift is Execu-“ tor of his own Will, and by Office obliged to“ make out all the Legacies to all the Legatees,<‘ that arepleafed to-put in their Claims, and make“ their Demands, Faith confifts in believing all ig“ mine, and in claiming and taking Polleffion ofall as mine own, Page, 114 199, 214.” ThisFaith arifes fyom no higher Principle than Self-prefervation, Page 262, 263.The Apoftle, who certainly deferves as muchCredit as Mr Bojlon, {peaks in this Manner—IfChildren then Heirs, Rom. viii. 17. Gal. hi. 29.but according to Mr Soft on, it Ihould read—^Sinners then Heirs. This will be Good News toproud haughty Sinners; that they need not ap¬proach God as deftitute Beggars, and Objefts ofMercy, but as privileged Perfons who have de¬mands( 9 )mands upon their Maker, by Virtue of a Willwhere they are all particularly mentioned as Heirs.In this cafe the Title of Chrift’s Enemies, to e-ternal Life is as well founded, as that of hisFriends; and Unbelievers in their unregeneratedState are warranted to come to Chrift as Heirs,who have a legal Right to make Demands, and toput in their Claims for eternal Life, and tell him>Pardon is mine, I Claim it, I demand it as myown; and the Executor is obliged to anfwer theirDemands, and give out their Legacies. Arminuswas a perfefr Child for contriving a felf-righte-ous Plan of Happinefs to Mr Bqfton. According,to Mr Bojlon every Sinner is born an Heir of e-ternal Life, and has a Right to Claim the Inhe¬ritance. Arminus fays a Sinner muff Work forHeaven: Mr Bojlon fays they muft demand it, andClaim it becaufe it is theirs. Arminus'$ Sinnercan only approach God with Confidence when hisWork is done, which never happens ;—but MrBojlon i Sinner comes upon his Maker with pe¬remptory Demands as a privileged Heir. He hasno Reafon to fay, Lord be merciful to me a Sin¬ner ; but to fay, I come to afk my Right accord-,ing to Law: My Name is in Chrift’s Will,and I infift upon my Legacy. Let the Readeronly but confider which of the twto Schemes isthe moft felf righteous one. If according toMr Bcjlon's Scheme all Sinners ot Adam'?, Race areincluded in Chrift’s laft Will, and Chrift is theExecutor of his own Teftament, what is the Rea¬fon that all Men are not faved; for it only de¬pends( IO' )penJs upon the Executor doing, what he is boundby Office to do, namely to fave them all. Thusthe Ruin of Sinners is laid at the Saviour’s Door,and he is reprefented as unfaithful in not applyingall the Legacies which he himfelf hath left to Sin¬ners of Mankind as fuch.It will appear to an attentive Reader of Scrip¬ture, that the Promifes of the Covenant are madeto Children, and they are counted for the Seed,and the Seed are counted for the Heirs of Pro-mife. But Mr Bqfton lays otherwife, and inform5us that all the Race of Adam are Heirs to all theLegacies in the Covenant of Promife. The A-poftle {peaks in this wife, If ye be Cbrift’s thenare ye Abraham's Seed, and Heirs according tothe Promife: But fuch as are not Chrift’s, theirHeirffiip is of another Sort-—The Wrath of Godabideth on them. They can Claim nothing, nonot a Moment’s Refpite or Forbearance. Mr Fra¬zer makes a very juft Obfervation when he faysthat Mr Bojion's Works will be held in efteemwhen Mr Murray's will be conligned to Oblivion.Mr Murray's Name is not worth any Body sNotice, and can add no Weight to his Works;neither are any of his Performances formed on thepopular Plan. But if Mr Murray's Performancesare likely to be forgotten fooner than Mr Bqfton's,they are on that Account calculated to do lefsEvil. It had been better for Thoulands that MrBojion's Works had died with himfelf, than thathis Name and Writings ffiould have fupplanted( M )the Writings of the A po files in their Efleem. Thegrofleft Falflioods •will pafs for found Dottrineif Mr Bojloris Name be fixed on the Title Page.I think a groffer Falfhood cannot well be printedon Paper, 1 than what Mr Bqftm has publifhedin his Treatife of the Covenant, namely thatChrifl is the Kinfman Redeemer of Mankind Sin¬ners as fuch. Any Perfon who will pleafe to readthe Scripture account of the Goal or Kinfman Re¬deemer may perceive the Falfhood of that Propo-fition at full Length. I fhall be at Pains to fhewMr Frazer at large, the Scripture account of aKinfman Redeemer, and leave him to compareMr Bojion’s Propofition with what the Holy Ghoflfays upon that Subjett. Levit. xxv. xxiv;dad in all the Land of your Pojfejfnm ye fhallgrant a Redemption for the Land. If thy Bro¬ther he vjaxen poor and hath fold aivay fomc ofhis Pojfeffwn, and if any of his Kin come to Re¬deem it, then fhall he redeem that vshich his Bro¬ther fold. Ver. 47. And if a Sojourner or Stran¬ger ivax rich by thee, and thy Brother thatdwelleth by him wax poor, and fell hhnfelf untothe Stranger or Sojourner by thee, or to the Stockof the Stranger's Familyafter that he is fold hemay be redeemed again; one of hit Brethren mayredeem him. Ruth. iv. v. Then faid Boaz,■what Day thou buyejl the Field of Naomi, thoumujl buy it of Ruth the Moabitefs, the Wife of theDead to raife up the Name of the Dead upon hisInheritance. Ver. 9. And Boaz faid unto the El¬ders, and unto all the People, ye are Witneffesthis( 12 )this Day, that I have bought all that was Eli-melechV, and all that -was Chilion’j, and Mah-lotfx, of the Hand of Naomi: Moreover, Ruththe Moabitefs, the Wife of Mahlon, have Ipurchafed to be my Wife, to rafe up theName of the Dead upon his Inheritance: Thaithe Name of the Dead be not cut off from amonghis Brethren, and from the Cate of his Place)ye are Witneffes this Day. Numb, xxxv 18.19.If he fmite him ivith an Hand Weapon of Wood,and he die, he is a Murderer; the Murderer fhallfurely be put to Death. The Kinfman Redeemerhimfeff fhallJlay the Murderer; when he inectcthhim he Jhallflay him.Any Perfon who is not governed by the in¬fluence of Prejudice, will ealily perceive* b} com¬paring this Account of a Kinfman Redeemer withMr Boffon's Account thereof, that if the KinfmanRedeemer was a Type of our Saviour, and ourLord fulfilled this Type, that he cannot be aKinfman Redeemer to Mankind Sinners asfuch, and for thefe following Reafons. (1) ThePeople of Ifrael were not a Type of all Men, butonly of the Church of Chrifl, which he was toplant in the Fulnefs of Time. (2.) The Officeof Kinfman Redeemer, and the Privilege of Re¬demption belonged to the Seed of Abraham ac¬cording to the Promife; for no Strangers whowere not converted to the Jeiviff Religion wereallowed this Privilege. (3.) The Kinfman Re¬deemer whoever he was, was obliged to do thePart( *3 )Part of a Kinfimn to thofs who he was thusrelated to, and obliged by the Law of Redemptionto raife the Family which was reduced, to thefame State of Freedom, Liberty, and Enjoymentwith the Reft of free Ifraelites: And if any at¬tempted to perform this Office who was not quali¬fied he was fure to mar his own Inheritance. (4.)The Kinfman Redeemer, could fulfil this Officeto none but fuch as were comprehended withinthe Law of Redemption, which was well knownamong the Jenis. If our Saviour fulfilled thisOffice as a Kinfman who was hereby tipifiedand pointed out, he could never be a KinfmanRedeemer to all Mankind without redeeming themall; for he cannot bear his Office in vain. Whe¬ther it an Objetft of Laughter or of Sorrow to findMen’s Works and Characters fet in oppofition tothe dictate of the Holy Ghoft, I (hall leave toto Mr Frazer and the Seceders to confider; butwe are certain, that he that fits in Heaven willlaugh, and hold all fuch in Derifion who ufe theKing who he has fet on his Holy Hill of Zion afterthis Manner. Can any Thing be more abfurd andridiculous than to affirm that the Man of God’sright Hand, whom he hath made ftrong for him-felf, hath afiumed an Office which he either willnot or cannot execute in Behalf of thofe for wholeSakes he hath affumed it, I dare venture to affirmthat Mr Murray will not envy Mr Frazer thePleafure he may enjoy by indulging fuch Falfhoods.This is not a queftion which relates to the Good-nefs or BaJnefs of Men ; the Mercy of the Lord isB free( 14 )free to the moft Worthlefs; andjit is no Reflexionon Mr Bojlons Character, to fay, he was favedlike other poor Sinners by the free Mercy of God,and not in the Character* of a popular Preacher,or a Writer of popular Books. Mr Frazer, andthofe who proceed on the Plan of the ancient Pha-rifees, are not difpofed to receive the Truths ofthe Bible till once they can find the Name of fomeRabbi prefixed to them ; but our Savour’s Adviceis recorded in this Fafhion, Call no 'Man Rabbi, forone is yoitr Rabbi, even Cbrijl, and all ye are Bre¬thren.* While the Names and Charaffers of Menftand between the Profeflbrs of Religion, and theWords of the Holy Ghoft, there cannot be a bet¬ter Office performed to fuch mifled Mortals, thanto beat down this Wall of Partition, which hind¬ers them from receiving the heavenly Truth for itsown Sake. It is but reafenable that the Righteousbe had in everlafting Remembrance ; but it is apoor Compliment paid to their Memory to prefertheir Names and Works to the Word of God.They certainly never meant to be Lords of ourFaith, but only Helpers of our Joy.The afibciate Prefbytery, in their Aff concern¬ing the Doftrine of Grace, have endeavoured tomake fome Improvements upon the Marrow ©f mo¬dern Divinity, and Mr Bofton’s Works; and havereally improved in all the Abfurdities of the ancientPharifees. They have eftabliffied an appropria¬ting Aft of Faith, which they affirm is necefiary forsSmaer’s Jufiification before God, and infill up¬on* Math, xjiii. 8.( *5 )on Men believing what is no where revealed in theScripture : Namely, that Chrift made an Atone¬ment for all the Hearers of the Gofpel. They mightas well have taken in all the World, and given alfan equal Chance, and been as near the Truth. Ifall who hear the Gofpel have a Right to fayChrifl loved me, and died for me : This muft cer-be true, tainly and all who hear the Gofpel muft beeventualy faved, otherwife Chrift mufl have madean Atonement for them in vain, and the Privilegebe as good as nothing, when it is not infeparablyconnefted with Salvation. Such an Appropriationfeems not to have been known in the- ApoftolicTimes; for none of the Apoflles required any luchFaith of their Converts. They required theirConfeffion in Behalf of the Character of Jefus, ofhis Death and Refurreffion, but make no Mentionof their believing that Chrift died for them in par¬ticular, as a Condition in their Juflification.They were called to believe the Record of Godthat there was eternal Life in his Son, but not tobelieve a Fahhood, viz. that Chrift died for allwho hear the Gofpel. Some have had the Effron¬tery to tell us, that though all the Hearers of theGolpel are called to believe that Chrift died forthem, yet this is not true till they believe it;which is in fo many Words to declare that be¬lieving a Falfhood makes it become true. Butmay it not be foberly afked, whether are not allthe Grounds of Faith true before we believethem, and do we not credit the Report whichis given concerning Chrift becaufe we are per-B 2 fuaded( 16 )fuaded that it is true. If it is not true beforeit be believed, then the Evidence of Faith come3after believing, i. e. the Efieft goes before theCauie, or a Sinner believes a FaKhood, and prt>fently it becomes a Truth. This is the verySoul and Scope of the Marrow Dofhine whichMr Bo/ion and the Seceders have been at Painsto trim up and render fit for the Fafhion. Itappears wondrous fhange, that if all the Hearersof the Gofpel are obliged to believe that Chriftdied for them, that his Atonement does notfavc them from the Sia of Unbelief as wellas every other Iniquity. It is no where record¬ed in the Gofpel, that Chrift died for all theHearers thereof, diftimft from the reft of Man¬kind, nor does the Scope of it teach us anyThing more or Ids concerning the Objedls of hisAtonement, than that he laid down his Lifefor his Sheep. Can it be fuppofed, that ChriftIhed his Blood on Uncertain Conditions; thathe paid the Price of Redemption for all, andyet had no Security for obtaining the Objedlsthereof? Can fuch Folly be Imputed to him whois infinitly wife, or fuch Unfaithfulnefs be at¬tributed to the faithful and true Witnefe. Ifhall favour the Reader, with a few Faflagesfrom that Aft of the Affociate Prelbytery; andleave him to judge for himfelf, whether ornot I have done them Juftice. Page 3 a, “ They“ affirm a Man’s being perfuaded that Chrift is“ his, is neceffiary to anfwer the Call and offer'‘of the Gofpel according to the Deed of Gift©r( I? )“ or Grant that God hath inpde of Chrilt in14 the Word. Now Salvation is offered to e-“ very one in particular that hears thefe glad“ Tidings. A£f. xi. 39. 7%<? Promife is toy'Ai,“and therefore it is certain that Faith, which“ is the Anfwer to the Call of God in the“ Gofpel, muft lay hold on Salvation for the“ Penon in particular. For fuppofe that the“ offer be to all in general; yet if a Man is not“ influenced by the Holy Spirit to appropriate to“ himfelt the common Salvation, or what did‘‘ lie in common in the Gofpel Offer, he cannot“ be faid to receive or clofe with Chriff as he“ is offered therein.”Here they endeavour to eftablifir an Appro*priation, t o anfwer a Call and Offer foundedupon a Deed of Gift and Grant that never e>:-ifled, except in the Imagination of the AffociatePrdbytery, the Marrow and Mr Bojlm'% Works.Where in the divine Records, is this univerfalGrant and Gift of Chrifl: to be found ? If thisAppropriation is founded on the univerfal Offer,and the Offer is founded upon this Gift andGrant, there is fome reafon to conclude it hasno Foundation in Divine Revelation. But letus fee how the Prdbytery makes this out. (1.)The Promife is tor you. Aft. ii. 39, To whom?To a number of Chriflian Converts whom Peterwas the Inftrument of converting by provingthe Faffs concerning the Death and Refurefliotiof Chrifl:. And does the Prdbytery really be*B 3 lievex i 18 f,IleVe that thcfe Chriftians were all unconverted*-Sinners ? There is no Queflion, that Chrifbis made to Believer’s Wifdom, Righteoufnefs,'Sanctification and Redemption; and offers him-felf and all his Benefits to his Church, whoare Heirs of the Premiie: But is there no dif¬ference between the Grant made to the Heirs ofMercy, and the Privileges of Unbelievers whoare Enemies to God, and Children of Wrath?I would only afk the Prelbytery a plain Quef-tion. Was this Promife made to all who heard theApofile, or only thofe who were converted bythe Word which he had preached to them?Does not the very Text tell us, that the Pro-mife is made to all whom the Lord God fhallcall. Therefore they are the Called of God, andfaithful to whom this Promife of Remiflion ofSins and Salvation is granted. The Prelbyterycertainly did not confider what this Promife waswhich they affirm to be made to all the Hear¬ers of the GofpeL It was the Promife of re-miffion of Sins through the Blood of a Saviour,who was exalted at God’s Right Hand to giveboth Repentance and Remiffion of Sins to hisPeople: But has God either promifed, or wasChrift exalted to fullfil the Promife of the Re-miffion of Sins to all who hear the Gofpel ? Itwould have been better if the Aflbciate Prelby¬tery had read their New Teflament a little morecarefully before they had attempted to correftthe General Afiembly; for through their Zealto corrcS the Aflcaiblj they have expofed them-felvej{ 19 )to every intelligent Reader of the Scriptures, tobe the wildeft Arminians that ever exifted : Andat the fame time, that they deny the Faft, andwant to fix it on others, ufe every Subtlety theyare Mailers of, to maintain the very Thing theyfind Fault with. Let us fee what the. ApolllePeter fays to this Point, and enqifire. hew farhe agrees or differs ■ from.. the Aflbciate Prefby-tcry. Novi, when they heard this, they werePricked in their Hearts,, and /aid unto Peter andthe reji of the, ApoJUes,. what Jholl we do ?Then Peter /aid unto them repent, and be bap¬tized every one of you in the Name cf JefusChrijl, for the Remijfion of Sins, and ye foallreceive the Gift oi the Holy Chojl. For the Pro-mfe is unto-you,, and to your Children, and toall that are afar off, even as many as the Lordour God foall call. * The God of our Fathersraifed up Jefus, whom yi fieiu' and hanged ona Tree. Him hath God exalted with his RightHand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for. to give.Repentance to Ifrael, and Forgivenefs of Sins.f Can any- thing be plainer than that Peter*%Words are an Anfwer to the Query of the Con¬verts. vVhat (hall we do 5 They were perfuadedthat they were grievous Sinners for crucifyingChi ill, and that the Apollle’s Pradlice was light*and wanted to know whatjjtheir Manner of Conduftwas, that they might obferve it. Peter tells them,that they mull. Repent of their pall Sins, andIhew they were Believers by taking the Badgeof the Chrillian Religion on them by beingbaptized. I ACl **-1 oL ACl( 2° )baptized in the Name of him whom they hadcrucified; for, fays he, the Promife is to you,becaufe Jefus is. exalted to give Repentance andForgivenefs of Sins; and not only to you, butto your Children who believe, and all whomthe Lord your God fhall call. This Promife is on¬ly a Promife of Foreivenefs of Sins that are pafi,to thofe whom the Lord hath or lhail call. TheApofUes Words have much the fame SignificationRom iii. xx. Being jujlijied freely by bis Grace,through the Redemption that is in Jefus Chrijl,’whom God hath fet forth to be a Propitiationthrough Faith in his Blood, to declare his Righte-oufnefs fob the Remijfion of Sins that are pajlthrough the Forbearance of God; that he mightbe Ju/t,, and the Jufifier cf him which believethin Jefus. It would be faying little for the DivineCharacter to affirm, that God hath made a Grantto all upon a Condition he knew none of themcould fulfil : This is to accule the Almightyof Duplicity, and Equivocation. But may I notafk the Prelbytery, Can that be called a Giftwhich is never given ? If Chrifi be exhibitedas a common Gift in the Gofpel to all, whyis he not given to all ? Likely the Seceders willfay, becanfe Sinners will not accept of him.But if Chrift loved them, and did for them whathe did for others, as the Prefbytery affirms allare bound to believe, why did he not meritevery neceffary Grace and Power for them toaccept of himfelf? Or why is not this Atone¬ment effectual for their final Salvation as wellas( 21 )as others who have no better Claim ? I am a-fraid the Picfbytery will find themfdves fall here.But the Prefbytery cannot find a Method toget Sinners condemned for not believing the Gof*pel without contriving this Gift and Grant, andand the univerfal Offer in confequence thereof.But one would think their was no Difficultyhere. Every rational Creature is juftly condemn¬ed for making God a Liar, by reje&ing theRecord he hath given concerning his Son. TheGofpel affords Arguments and Proof that Chriftfulfilled all Righteoufncfs Sake; but Sinners re-jeft the Proof and give their Maker the Lie.They are not condemed for not believing whatwas never true, namely, that Chrift died for allwho hear the Gofpel; but for rejecting whatis Faff, viz. That God is pleafed in JefusChrift. This, as a Matter of Revelation, me¬rits the Acceptation of all who hear it, whethertheir Salvation depended upon it or cot; andthey are juftly condemned for making God aLiar. The Almighty has, by the Gofpel, reveal¬ed this Truth, which could never have enteredinto the Heart of Man to conceive, namely;that he is reconciled to the Guilty for the fakeof the Work which Chrift finiffied on the Crofs.This he has publiffied in the Word of Truthwithout mentioning Individuals, or faying thatChrift died for any but his Sheep; and the En¬mity of Sinners isfoon difeovered by their oppofi-tion to this Truth. Many are fond of the Ap-propriati oa( 22 )propriation, who are Enemies to the Ciefs ofChnft, and rejeft the Record which God hathgiven concerning his Son.But the Preibytery tell us, that there is fame-thing which lies in Common between Saints andSinners, in Point of Right in the Gc^pel Offer,which cannot be received without the influenceof the Holy Ghoft. This is a very queer Sortof a Grant which is equal to all, and yet ne¬ver happens to be any Thing to the greateftPart except mocking of them. They are re¬quired to tell a Falfhood, and yet cannot doitthough they fhould perifh. Is it not to mockthem, to tell them all is theirs, all is givento them, and yet they never get it; Thereis a terrible But, in this Cafe. But theywill not take it. This is fomething indeedwhich ruins all ; one wauld be tempted to think itnever was theirs. Whether it was fuch Do£trineas this which Murray laughed at, I (hall notfay—But if it did not make him laugh, it wasfufficient. to. have made him fad-But before I proceed to Mr Frazer'?, Hobby-horfe, I fhall make a few Obfervations on hisRemarks on Nix Monteith’s Conduff, He wouldwillingly father a Falfhood on Mr Mmteith ifhe could. Nix Monteith faid, he had Bufmefs ofhis own to tranfaff when he went to NexvcaJUe,and he faid he had promifed to Mr Kidd ofNe-Mcajlle to come there, and received Mr Mur*( 23 )ray's Letter of Invitation upon which he went.Now inftead of telling one Falrtiood, Mr Mon-teith only told two Truths, but at two differentTimes, and to different Perfons; where wasthe Harm of all this ? But Mr Monteith didnot behave wifely—He ought to have confult-ed Daniel Frazer, and not proceed without hisAdvice. There are fome Members of Congre¬gations, who can do little Good when they arepleafed, that can do Miichief enough when theyangry—Mr Frazer feems to be one of thefe.But though Mr Frazer has not proved Mr Mon¬teith guilty of fpeaking a Falfhood, I can un¬dertake to prove that honeft Daniel has printedone. He feems to whifper in the 9 th Page ofhis Difcovery, that Somebody, and anotherSomebody, made fo free with the Holy Mini,ftry, as to licenfe a Cobler. Now I would putDaniel in Mind that both Parts of his Storyip a Lie; and it gives fome Ground to fufpeft,that all he has faid is of the fame Kind. Inthe fit ft Place, the Gentleman who was licenfednever was a Cobler in the common Acceptationof that Word. He indeed ferved an Apprentice-fhip to the Bufinefs of a Shoemaker; but hadnot prattifed it for many Years. He had at¬tended Schools of Literature and Philofophy e-qual to any Univerfity in Scotland, not except¬ing the Seceders’ famous Academy. In everyBranch of human Literature he is Supe¬rior to any Seceding Minifter ever I heard of;and for Knowledge in the Scriptures, and O-rientul( 24 )riental Languages he is fit to teach both theAffoclate Synods. As for his once being aShoemaker that is no Reproach. It is as laud¬able an Employment as a Tent-maker. But■whether friend Daniel knows it or not, I canallure him that fome Years ago, had all theBlack-fmiths, Coblers, Weavers, and Taylorsbeen taken out of the Afibciate Synod, theirwould have been but a fmall Number left be¬hind. I do not mention this as any Diicreditto thefe Minifters, but to put Friend Danielin Mind that Men who have been of otherEmployments have been very good Preachersof the Gofpel, in his own Way. But there isanother Claufe of a Falfnood, which this goodMan has printed; namely, that one and ano¬ther licenfed a Cobler. Daniel has certainly notheard that there were three Minifters employedin this Deed, and this Number even in Scot¬land makes a Prelbytery. And I can aftlireMr Frazer likewife that there were three Bur¬ger Minifters who ordained a Minifter in Nciu-caftle, and I do not hear that any Perfons foundFault with them; and why might not three Pro-teftant Diflenting Minifters licenfe a Man theyfound qualified to Preach the Gofpel, as wellas three Burgers Preachers ordained one. Therefeems to be as much Reafon on the one Sideas the other. But who would give Credit toa Perfon who is difpofed to publilh fuch pal¬pable FaKhoods to the World. 1 muft now( iS )as I promifed, to confider Mr Trazer'% Hobby-horfe, which I fhall fliew he means no more bythan a Child does by his Rattle.Mr Frazer's Hobby-horfe is a Church Judi¬catory, or an Ecclefiaftic Court. This is theThing he plays with through the whole of hisDifcovery: But honeft Soul, he means nothing;I mean his Words have no Meaning. Danieltakes care to (hew his Intention by dripping e-very Church Member of his COnfcience; now letonce a Man part with the exercife 6f his Confcience,and it will appear plain that every thing elfe will bea perfect Hobby-horfe. What ufe is the Word ofGod or any other Book for, to a Period whomakes no Confcience in enquiring into its Meaning,or obferving its Di&ates: Mr Frazer quotes aPaflage from an old Book, where the Rights ofConfcience are lodged, in the Hands of the Gentle¬men of the Black Cloth. “For Synods Mid Coun-“ cils have a Right, minifterially, to determine“ Matters of Faith and Cafes of Confcience.'* Iwould not trull a Synod of Angels with thatCharge; but to (hew that Daniel means nothingby that Quotation, he has taken it on the Wordof the Compofers; for there is not a Paifage in allthe New Teftament which fays any fuch thing.Solomon lays, If thou be 'wife, thou fhall be ivifefor thyfelf; but if thou JcorneJl, thou alone fhallbear it—and Paul fays. Have thou Faith, haveit for thyfelf before Cod—There is not oneWord of a Synod determining what any ManC (hall{ *6 )flull believe. Mr Frazer's Synods and Coun¬cils, and Courts of Chrift, are like UndeToby’s Battles and Circumvallations, which heand Corporal Trim formed in the Garden; whichhad juft as good a Refemblance to the Bat¬tle of Namur, and the Siege of Dendermond,as Mr Frazer's Courts of Chrift have to an Af-fembly of Apoftles. The honeft Captain andCorporal had been ufed to thele Things, andmeant no more by them, than to make a Hob-by-horfe of them; .and Mr Frazer has beenaccuftomed to Courts of Chrift, and muft inthe Hobby-horfical Way be pondering themnow and then. Synods and Councils, or whatMr Frazer call Courts of Chrift, are fomethinglike Courts Martial, where the Officers have aPower to whip all the private Men in the Re¬giment, without being, accountable for theirConduct.But to defcribe Daniel Frazer's Hobby-horfe more particularly, let us look to Page25, of his Difcovery. xft. He fays the Con-fcience is corrupted, and will not diredt Menright, idly, It is blinded, and cannot direffthem right. 3dly, To follow the Dictates ofConfcience, is to deprive the Church of God ofa Government. All this, fays Daniel, is to•loofe Men from all Laws human and divine.Now what Sort of a Church muft this goodMan have, when there is not a Confcience in itall. The Matter of Fadt is, Mr Frazer hasnot( 27 )«ot the fmalleft Idea of a New TeftamentChurch; for in fuch Churches every Man’sConfcience and the Gofpel, fpeaks the fameLanguage. This Defcription of Confcience,which our Dunfe Friend gives us, is a Delcrip-tion of an ill Confcience, which cannot belongto a Society where all the Members are ofone Heart and one Soul, and actuated by thefame Spirit Chrift, the Head of his Church,fpeaks by his Word to every Man’s Confcience;but never, that I read of, commits the Cafesof his People’s Confciences to Truftees orVice-gerents. According to Frazery Chrift go¬verns the Officers of the Church; and theygovern all the reft of the Members: Hencehe affs by Deputation—But, Where does Danielfind-this in, the New Teftament? How muchbetter a Head’ of Government does it makeChrift, to rule in the Officers of his Churchthan. in all the Members ?This Mr Frazer, compares the Relief Churchto Noah's Ark; for he does not well knowwhat to compare her to: Now, by the bye, thisis not a very bad Comparifon; for Noah's Arkwas framed by the Appointment of God, andnothing put into it, but what the Almighty com¬manded ; and if the Church of Relief be ofthis Sort, ftie is not fo very bad, as Frazerwould make us believe. This zealous Man,,in a Tranfport, calls the Heavens and the Ekrthto be aftonifhed at fo much Impiety, and whatC 2 is( 28 )is all this Impiety ? Truly, Reader, it is nei¬ther more nor lefs than the Rights of Confer¬ence, which he calls impious—By this youmay eafily guefs, that he does not know whathe is faying. It is a pity but Daniel was attRome for a Seafon, there he would fee andfeel the Plenitude of Church Power over theConfciences of Men.Mr Frazer has a very droll Obfervation inhis 17th Page; fays he, to hold Communionwith a Church, with which we cannot fit inJudicatory, is an evident Con tradition—Andfo it is Daniel; and this fuppoles that there isno other Judicature, till the Coming of Chrift,except the whole Church. I mu ft own, I wouldlike this better than an Alfembly of Divines.This is the true Prefrytcuan Church, whichJieltat&ent recommends. But thisWould deftroy Mr Frazer's Hobby-horle : Wehave fome very pofitive Alfertions in Page 29,of the Hobby-horfical Kind. “ I affert, fays Fra-“ zer, that Chrift is King of his Church, and*< hath appointed a particular Form of Government,“ to be obferved therein; and it is that Form“ of Prelbyterial Church Government of Kirk" Seffions, in Subordination to Prelbyteries, of** Prelbyteries; to Synods, of Synods, to Gene-<• ral Aftemblies, which Form of Government<* has been received and owned by the Church“ of Scotland, as agreeable to the Word of God.”Stop there Daniel—They were only fettled asmoft( 29 )moft agreeable to the Inclinations of the Peo¬ple in Scotland; as is evident from the Aft o*Settlement, at the Revolution—which Revo¬lution Settlements, the Burgers have endea¬voured to prove to be the fame with the Re¬formation Principles. I wonder much, hov-Daniel has miftaken the Matter fo far, as tobring in the Word of God, where it has notthe leaft Concern. The Word of God has nomore Concern with his Hobby-horfe, than ithad with Uncle Toby's. There is no moreGround for a Church Court in the Scripture,than there is Proof there, for a Baftion or aCounterlkarp ; and if it were not cruel, to de¬prive a poor Man of his Hobby-horfe, I couldeafdy Ihew him that his Form of Prefbyterywhich he is fo fond of, has no more Connec¬tion with the Word of God than it has withVoltaire's Diftionaire Philofophique: But Imuft fpare poor Daniel's Hobby-horfe; poorMan he means nothing by it further than tomake a Pamphlet to eafe himfelf of -the Spleen,and pleafe the Burgers—For what can any poorFellow mean, when he has parted with his Con-fcience, which is the Candle of the Lord inevery Man.If Mr Frazer had even the Pleafure of f ee-ing a Burger Meeting-houfe at Dunfe, itcould be of fmall confequence to him withouthe Ihould take his Confcicnce back—But he ;3C 3 determined( 3* )determined to have no Connection with Con-icience any longer.Mr Frazer fays, Page 24, “ Another Errorf‘ in the Relief Church is, their allowing Men«• to follow the Dictates of their own Con-“ fcience, altho’ in oppofition to the Word“ of God,—which is evident above from Mr“ Monteith’s own Cafe, and from what he faid to“ the Members of this Congregation.” I can¬not for my Heart perceive from any Thing thatis faid above, that the Relief Church haveany fuch Principles; nor does it appear thatany Man’s Confcience was oppofing the Wordof God, except the Confcience of Daniel Fra¬zer in Dunfe: And, for this Realbn, he hasdeclared he will have no more to do with it.He has now, I think, played his Confcience a Trickfor its Perverfenefs, and got fairly even with it. Iam forry that honeft Frazer ever Ihould have beenin any Church of fuch a bad Character, ashe defcribes; but alas ! poor Soul, he has no hopesof being any better, for he is all along fup-pofing every Church to have no Members, butfuch as have ill Confciences. Had Mr Frazerproved that Mr Monteith and the Church ofRelief, had done any thing contrary to theWord of God, and that they affirmed thattheir Confciences directed them to do fo, Danielmight have had fome reafon to have fallen foulon their Confciences: But the Man of Dunfehas( 31 )has left this to fonae other Hand. But Howcomes it to pafs that Daniel receives all theArticles of the Directory, concerning ChurchGovernment as agreeable to the Word of God lIs it not becaufe his Confcience tells him theyagree ? In this Cafe his Confcience muft be Judgeof this Agreement, and therefore he receives itbecaufe of the Judgment of his Conlcience.Is not this doing what he blames in others ?Suppofe another Perfon makes the fame Coin-parifon, and finds that the whole Bible andthe Direflory differ, muft not this Man fol¬low his Confcience as well as Mr Frazer ?How does Daniel embrace the Bible as a Re¬velation from God, except from a Confcioufnefsthat it is given by God ? And is it not mani-feft in this Cafe, that the Judgment of Con¬fcience goes before an Acceptation of the Wordof God. It is no Virtue to receive, what weare not confcious is right, whoever may be theAuthor; and we only know that God is theAuthor, of Divine Revelation, by comparingit by thofe Attributes of his Name, which wealready underftand. It would not be very dif¬ficult to prove this fame Frazer an Atheift:For if there are not fome Rules by which ourConfciences can judge from the known Attributesof God, whether the Scriptures are like thefePerfections, we are not fure if there is any Deityat all. Mr Frazer's Doftrine concerning Con¬fcience, is point Blank Atheifm. SuppofeDaniel Frazer was to bring his Bible to anIndian( 32 )Indian and tell him. This Book is the foldDirectory of your Confcience, which God hasfent you, to which you muft fubmit in allThings. Would not the India* enquire, Howdo you know this ? If I find it agreeable tothe Character of God, I will receive it, butI cannot acknowledge it as a Revelation from Godunlefs it is like him. Should Daniel tell himhis Confcience is blinded and cannot judge right—he would naturally reply that he could notthen judge at all; and confequently would con¬clude from Mr Frazer's Principles, that therecould be neither Good nor Evil in the World.Mr Frazer allows the Word of God to bethe only Rule to Confcience, but what is to bethe Rule whereby a Man mull judge whether-fuch and fuch Opinions are agreeable to thatWord or not ? One would be tempted to thinkthat the Man of Dunfe intended to fet up hisown Judgment for the Standard here. Suppofea Burger Minifter fhould affirm, that the trueReligion prefently profefied and authorized bythe Laws of the Land, means a Religion profefied160 Years ago, and another affirms that itmeans the Religion profefied in this prefent Year,how ffiall they fettle this Point without theirConfidences ? Every Man’s Conficience, whetherhe will or not, will tell him, that what is pafi: isnot prefient; and when Laws are altered, theyare not the fame Laws; nor when Religion isaltered, it is not the fame Religion. And fup-pofie( 33 )pole alfb they bring the Word of God to trythis Point, muft not the Judgment which theyform concerning it, if they are honeft, be theJudgment of Confcience?Mr Frazer {ays, it is abominable for Men tofollow the Light of their Confciences in holdingCommunion with any Church : For this is ma¬king Confcience the Rule, and not the Word ofGod. Let’s fee where the Abomination lies. Ido think that it is abominable to affirm thatother Men’s Confciences are not directed by theWord of God without proving it. When Menjoin withother religious People, who profefs tohold by the Scriptures, it is always fuppofedthat they take the Word for a Guide to theirConfciences j and the Difpute then lies concerningthe Interpretation of Scripture, which1 everyMan's Confcience muft certainly judge of, if hea<fts confcientioufly. It does not appear fromany Thing Daniel Frazer has yet difeovered,that the Church of Relief pretends to maketheir Confciences a Rule independent of Scrip¬ture; and their Judgment of the Word of Godhas as good a Chance to be right as Mr Fra¬zer's, or any other Perfon’s. People of fuchpcrfecuting Principles, as this Frazer feems tobe or, are dangeous to have to do with—There is no Toleration with him: Such ascannot come up to his Standard, if he had Pow¬er, would foon feci his Vengeance,He( 34 )'He is a true Roman Catholic on the Doc¬trine of Confcience: But as this is the poorMan’s Hobby-horie, let him enjoy it—Our Lawshave fecured us againft any Danger from fuchChildren—They my ufe their play Things todivert themfelves, but can do little 111 by thePractice of them.I.lhall now take my Leave of honeft Frazer>and beg of him, that either he, or his ablerHand, will be fo kind as let us know all theyhave to fay againft the Rights of Confcience,and the Prelbytery of Relief; and I promifehim honeftly, if Daniel ftiall write a Pamphletevery Month, I ftiall do him the honour toconfider his Arguments—But I muft put himin Mind not to plague his Readers with fomany Quotations from Scripture which are noway for his Purpofes. He deferves to be found-ly chaftized for making fo free with the Scrip¬tures as to apply them to his Hobby-hoife. 1have no Obje&ions againft his trifling withBojlon'% Works, and fame other old Books,but would adyife him not to pervert the Wordsof the Holy Ghoft. If Daniel has a Mind tocarry on this Controverfy, I Ihall help him to-a Difcovery ©f the Principles of the BurgerSeceders to compare with the Principles of thePrefbytery of Relief. I can allure him, 1 haveno Averfion to fee this Point well cleared up;and fhallgive him ail the Affiftance I can afford.FINIS.Speedily ivill be publijhed.A New FARCE, call’dTHEHYPOCRITE,(As it is a&ed at the Riding School in Dunfe.)By Daniel Frazer, and Company,DRAMATIS PERSON^The Sham Difcoverer, DANIEL FRAZER.The Jacobite, ANDREW JEFFRYSir John Fielding, WILLIAM GILLIES-