THER YHIS'T Oo rJACKand theGIANTSPiinted and fold at the foo: ct theHorfe-wynl, 178^,( OF SCOTUND y)Xs^^NBURGii>^/THEC O N T E” N T SPART FIRSTPACE.Chap.. I. Of his birth and parentage, and what pa/Tedbetween him and a country Vicar, &c. 3■*—— II. How a Giant inhabited the Mountof Corn¬wall, and fpoiled the country thereabouts, 4—**— IIL How Jack flew this Giant, and got hini-felf the name of the Giant killer, , ib—*— IV. How Jack was taken by a Giant whileafleep, and how he got his liberty again, 5— V. How Jack travelled into Flimfhire, andwhat happened there, 7— VI. How king Arthur’s Ton, going to feck hisfortune, met with Jack, 9■■ VII. How Jack faved his matter's life, anddrove the evil fpirit out of the Lady, IIPART SECOND.  VIII. How Jack by king Arthur’s leave wentin purfuit of Giants yet alive, IJ  IX. How Jack flew a Giant, and delivered aknight and his lady from death, 24,—.— X. How Jack flew the other Giant, and fentboth their heads to king Arthur, 1 ;,—— XI. How Jack fearched their cave, and deli¬vered many men out of captivity, 1 70—— XII. How Jack came to the knight’s heufe,ami his noble entertainment there, t3- i^III. How Jack overthrew the Giant in themoat, a»d cut off both his heads, 195-—- XIV. How Jack came to. the houfe of an old*> Hermit, and what dilcourfe palled, citJi How Jack got into the enchanted cattle, andfreke the epch%ntment.THE HISTORY OFJJCKJND 7HE GIJN7S.j Of his Birth and Parentage, and what paft between .him and the Country Vicar.|^N the reign of king Arthur, near the land’s endl°f England, namely in the county of Cornwall,| there lived a wealthy farmer, who had «nc only fon'commonly known by the name of Jack the Giant-killer. He was brilk and of a lively ready wit, fothat whatever he could not perform by ftrength, hecompleted by ftratagem, ingenious wit, and policy;never was any perfon heard of that could worlt him ;Inay, the very learned many times he baffled by hiscunning, {harp, and ready inventions.For inftance, when he was no more than fevenyears of age, his father the farmer, fent him into thefield to look after his oxen, which were then feed¬ing in a pleafant pafture. A country vicar, by chanceone day coming acrofs the field, called to Jack, andafked him feveral queftions, in particular, how manycommandments there were? Jack told him Therewere nine. Theparfop,replied, there are ten. Nay,(quoth Jack) mailer parfon you are out of that; itis true there were ten, but you broke one of themwith your own maid Margery. The parfon repliedThou art an arch w'ag Jack. Well, mafter parfon,quoth Jack, you have alked me one queftion, and Ihave anfwered it,,! befeech you let me alk you ano-Ither; Who made thefe oxen ? The parfon replied,God made them, child. You are out again, quothJack, for God made them bulls, but my father andhis man Hobfon made oxen of them. Thele werethe witty anfwers of Jack. The parfon finding him-'felf fooled, trudged away, leaving Jack in a fit oflaughter.How a Giant inhabited the mount of Cornwall, and/polled the country thereabouts, &c.I N tbofe days the mount of Cornwall was kept by* a huge monftrons Giant, of 27 feet in height,and about three yards in cpmpafs, of a fierce and grimcountenance, to the terror of all the neighbouringtowns and villages.. His habitation was in a cave inthe midfl of all the mount, neither would he fuffer anyliving creature to inhabit near him. His feeding wasupon othermeas cattle, which often became hiS prey ;for whenever he had occafion for food, he would wadeover the main land, where he would furnilh himfe!f:with whatever he could find. For the people at hisapproach would forfake their habitations. Thenwould he feize upon the cows arid oxen, of waich hewould think nothing to carry over his back half adozen at a times arid as for fliee'p and bogs he wouldtie them round his waift like a hunch 'of bindeliers.This he had for many years praflife in 'Cornwall,which was much impdveriflied by him.But one day ]ack coming to the town hall, whenthe magiflrate* were fitting in confultatioh about iheGiant; he afked them wtrat reward they would giveto any perfon that would deftroy him ? They an-fwered, he Should have aH the Giant s treafure in re-compenfe. Quoth j^ck, then I rrvylelt will undertakethe work.How Jack f ew the Giant; and gritblmfclf the name-of jAChb-I HE CiaNT-KlI,I.FR.-|ACK haVTiig undeltaken this talk, he furnifnedJ himfelf with a h6jm,'a flmvel, and a pick-ax, andever to the iftonfit'he g 'es, in the leginning of adark winter evening, where lie fell to work, and be¬fore morning had digged a pit forty fyet deep, anahnofl: as hi cad, arid covered the lame over with Jong♦sjcJcs and Araw, then (hewing a Hale of the mouldtejur* it, -fonHat appeared, like ybin ground.iTliis done, Jack places himieJf on the contrary fh-’eof the pit, jult about the dawning, of the day, whenputting the horn to* his mouth, he then blew, Tantwivie, Tan twivie. Which unexpected noife roufedthe Giant, who came forth roaring, towatds jack,crying out, Incorrigible villain ! are yon come hereto ditturb my reft? You flialt dearly pay for it? Sa¬tisfaction I will have, and it lhall be that ; I will takeyou wholly, and broil you to my breakfalt, *Which words w ere no- fooner out of his mouth, bathe tumbled headlong into the deep pit, whofe heavyfall made the very foundations of the nrount to-fhakc..Oh Giant! where are you now? Faith you arcgotten into Lobb’s pond, where I will place you foryour threatning words. What do you think nowof broiling me for your breakfait ? Will no otherdiet lerve you but poor Jack? Thus, having tanta*lized the Gian-t for a while, he gave him a moltweighty knock upon the crown of the head with hispick ax, that he immediately tumbled down, andgiving a moit dreadful groan he died. This donejack threw the earth in upon him, and lo buriedhim ; then going and fearchiug the cave he found agreat quantity of treafure.Now when the magiftrates who employed him,heard the work, was over, they lent for him, decla¬ring that he Ihould henceforth be called Jack theGIANT KILLER* And in honour thereof^ they pre-lented him with a Iword, together with a fine- rich*embroidered belt, on thele words were wrought in*letters of gold.Fere'i the Right Valiant Cot nifh mtt;:.Who flew the Giont Cormelian.How Jack was taken by a Giant while afeep, ancDhow he got his liberty again.^pHE news of Jack’s victory was fooa fjnead ov<r4. all the weitern parts, lb that another hug,named Biunderboar hearing of it, vowed t« be re¬venged on Jack, if ever it was his fortune to light up-pon him. This giant kept an enchanted cattle fitu-ated in the midft of a lonei'ome wood : Now Jackabout four months after, walking near the borders ofthe laid wood, on his journey towards Wales, hegrew weary, and therefore fat himfelf down by thelide of a pleafant fountain, where a deep deep leizedon him; at which time the giant coining there for iwater found him, and by the lines written upon hisbelt, knew him to be Jack that killed his brother!Giant, and therefore without miking any words, he!throws him upon his Ihoulder, for to carry him tohis enchanted cattle.Now as they patted throw a thicket, the ruftlingof the boughs awaked poor Jack, who finding hiinfclfin the clutches of the Giant, he was Itrangely fur-priled ; yet ic was but the beginning of his terrors ;for at the firft entering within the walls of the cattle,he beheld the ground all covered with bones andfculls of dead men. The Giant telling Jack that hisbones would enlarge the number of thole that he lawThis laid, he brought him into a large parlour wherehe beheld the bloody quarters of fome that were late¬ly flain, and in the next room were many hearts andlivers; which the Giant to terrify Jack, told him,* That mens hearts and liters were the choiceft of‘ his deit, for he commonly, as he faid, eat themr with peper and vinegar ; adding, that he did not* quettion but his heart would make him a dainty‘ bit.’ This laid, he locks up poor Jack in an up¬per room, leaving him there, while he went to fetchanother Giant, living in the lame wood, that he mightbe partaker in the pleafure which they would have inthe dellrudlion of poor Jack.Now when he was gone, dreadful IHrieks and criesaffrighted poor Jack, efpecially a voice which conti¬nually cried,Do what you can to got away.Or you’ll become the Giant’s prejvlle’$ gone to fetch his brother, whoWill kill and likewife torture you.This dreadful nolle To amazed poor Jack, that hewas ready to run diftra&ed ; then feeing from awindow afar off, the two Giants coming together inow quoth to himfelf, my death or deliverance is athand.There were ftrong cords in the room by him, ofwhich he took two, at the end of which he made a-noole; and while the Giant was unlocking the irongate, he threw the ropes over each of their heads,and then drawing the other end acrofs the beam,where he pulled with all his main ftrength until hehad throaticd them ; and then faftening the rope tothe beam, turned towards the window, where hebeheld the two Giants to be black in their faces ;then Hiding down by tire rope he came clofe to theirheads; where the helplefs Giants could not defendthemfelves ; and drawing out his fword, flew them,both, and delivered himfelf from this intended cruel¬ty. fis then taking a bunch of keys, he* unlockedtne rooms, where, upon a ft rick ieurch, he foundthree fair Ladies tied by the hair of their heads, al--moifc lUrvtd to death, who told Jack, that their huf-. bands were flain by the Giant, and that they werekept many days without food, in order to force themtto feed upon the flef.i of tlieir hufbands ; which theywould not, if they were flarved to death..Sweet ladies,, quoth Jack, 1 have deftroyed Thismo niter and his brutilh brother, by which I have oh--laiued your liberties. This laid, he prefented themwith the keys of the caitle, and fo proceeded on hisjourney to Wales.How Jack travelled Into Flmtflme and what happenedJACK having but very little money, thought it. prudent to make the belt of his way by travellingV 3as fait as he could, fcut lulino; his road ras benightedand could'not get a place of entertainment, until hecame to a valley, placed between two hills, wheretlood a large heuie, in a lonefome place, and hy rea-fon of hit pr-el’ent condition, he took courage to knockat the g£te ; and to his forprife there came forth amcnftrous Giant, having two heads, yet - he did notleem lb fierce as the others had been, for he was aWelfir Giant, and what he did was hy private andfecrct malice under the falfe fl:ew of friendfhip ; andJack telling his condition, be hid him welcome, fliew-irjg him a room with a bed in it, whereupon hemight take bis night’s repbfe. Therefore Jack un-dreiTed himfelf, and as the Giant was walking awayto another apartment, jack heard him mutter thelefew words to himfelf.Tho’ here you lodge with me this night,You lhall not lee the morning lightMy club (hall dalh you? brains out quite,Sayelt thou Co, quoth Jack, this is like one of yourWelih tricks; yet I hope to be cunning enough forJou. Then getting out of bed, he put a billet in hisHead, and hid himlelf in the corner of the room, andhi the dead time of the night, the Wellh Giant camewith his great knotty club, and ftruck feveral heavyblows upon the bed where Jack had laid the billetiand then returned to his own chamber, luppofing hehad broken ail the bones in his bedy.In the morning Jack gave him hearty thanks forhis lodging. The Giant laid to him. How have yourelied r Did not ycu fed fomething in the night?2Sotfting,-quoth J^ck, but a rat which gave me threeor four daps with her tail. Soon after the Giant aroleand went to break fail with a bowl of bally pudding,containg near four gallons, giving Jack the likequantity i v. IiO being loath to let the Giant know hecould net eat with him, got a large leather bag put-t ng it very artfully under his great coat, into whicht^e-emperor and many lords afcended, for the fake offeeing fo !arge a monfier ; vaft numbers of peoplecame if* up n the fame errand j and whpn the work¬men found that they had thoroughly fecured him,they cut all the brings with which he was bound }and upon his rifing upon his iegc, they fhewed thegreaieft marks of wonder and a onifhiriCii..CHAP. II.The Emperor viftis Mr Gulliver, wit hither inter eft ingparticulars.TyylR Gulliver was no fooner on his legs, than he* was pleafed at beholding the profpeft of the coun¬try; large fields of forty feet fquare ; woods, at leaftfixty feet long; and tall trees, a'.moft feven feet high^and the chy on the left hand, which looked like theview of London in a raree fhew.The emperor having defcended from the tower,came forwaid, with the queen, and many ladies, toexamine Mr Gnlliver more minutely. He orderedhis cooks and butlers to prepare ten waggon loads ofmeat, and tsn of wine ; and he and his attendants fatat fome diftance to fee him dine. With regard to theemperor’s perfon, he is taller by a quarter of an inchthan any of his fubje£b, which is enough to llrikethem all with awe. His drefs was plain and frmple ;but he wore a golden helmet on his head adornedwith jewels, and a plume of feathers. He fufferedGulliver to take him up into the palm of his hand,after having drawn his fword to defend himfelf, it hefhould not be ufed kindly. The emperor fpoke ofte*xto Mr Gulliver, and Mr Gulliver as often aniweredhim, but all to no p'urpofe, for they could not under-ftand one ano,thef. When the court withdrew, he, . ( 15 )’•'is left with a ftrong guard, to prevent the Imperti-» aence of the rabble, many of whom, fuppofing hewould devour all the vi&'ti'• In the country, had t-htaudacity to fiiobt their arrows at him; but thecolonel ordered fix of them to be feized, and deliveredhis hands ; they were immediately bound, and’■yMjfflied towards him ; he placed them upon his lightrtand, and made a fign as if he would eat thetVi upalive; they were g early affiighted, and fqualled ter¬ribly, when they faw him take out his knife; butvaf-te\wards looking mildly, and cutti. g the firings w ithwhich they were bound, he placed them gently on the'*ground, and away they ran as faft as they were able.Thrs mark of clemency was repiefented much to hisadvantage at court.For a fortmght he lay upon the n iked pavement ofthe houfe which was jmoQth fierte; during whichtime fix hundred beds were brought in carriages, andworked uo within tlje building ; one hundred and/ifty were fown together in breadth and length ; andthefe w'ere four double, which, however, was barelyfufficient to relieve him from the hardnefs of the floor;and in the fame manner alfo, he was provided with(heets, blankets and coverlidsThe emperor, however, had frequent couhcils con¬cerning him ; the court apprehended his breakingloofe, that his diet would be very expenfive, andcaufe a famine. So., etimes they determined to fiarvehim, or to llioot him in the face with poifofted arrows .•but again they forefaw, that the flench of fo large acarcafe might produce a plague in the land. In oneof thefe confultationt, an t fficer of the army went tothe council chamber, and gave ar account of his behavtour to the fix criminals jurt men’ioned, w'hich^worked fo favourably on the mind of his majefty, thatbe font orders for all the villages within nine hundredbut quoth Jack, here’s the king’s fon coming with aj thoufand men in armour to kill you, d*.id to deftroyall that you liave. Oh ! nephew Jack, this is heavynews indeed: I have a lafge vault under the ground,where I will go immediately and hide myfelf, andthou (halt lock, bolt, and bar me in, and keep thekeys till the king’s fon is gone.Now Jack having fecured the Giant, he foon re¬turned and fetched his mailer, and were both hearti-*iy merry with the wine, and other dainties whichwere in the houfe. So that night they reded in veryplealant lodgings, while the poor uncle the Giantlay trembling in the vault under the ground.Early in the morning, Jack furniihed his maderwith a frelh fupply of gold and filver, and fo lettingI him three miles foiward on his journey, concludingI he was then pretty well out of the linell of the Giant,and then returned to let his uncle out of the hole ;who alked Jack, what he would give him in rewardthat his caltle was not deinolilhed. Why, quoth Jack,I defire nothing but the old coat and cap, togetherwith that old rudy fword and flippers which are atyour bed head. Quoth the Giant, Thou lhalt ha.ethem, and pray keep them for iny fake, for they are; things of excellent ufe; the coat will keep you invi-fible, the cap will furnilh you with knowledge, thefword cuts in hinder whatever you drike, and the(hoes are of extraordinary fwiftnefs : Theie may beferviceablc to you, and therefore pray take them withall my heart. Jack takes them, and thanking hisuncle, he follows his mader.How Jack faved his mader’s life, and drove the evilfpirits out the lady.TACK having overtaken his mader, they f®on after| J arrived at the lady’s houfe, who finding the king’sfon to be a fuitor, (he prepared a banquet for him;|j which being ended, Ihe wiped her mouth with her.Irarflkerdiief, lading, you muft (hew me ■tlus'one to¬morrow morning, or elfe you iofe your h Ad, andv/kh that flic j*at it into her bafom.The king’s fon went to bed very forrowFul, butJack’s cap of knowledge inftxucted him how to obtainit. In the middle of the night (he called upon herfamiliar fpirit to carry her to her friend Lucifer ;Jackrfoon put on his coat of darknefs, with his (hoesof lwiftnefs,-and was there as foon as her, by reafonof his^coat they could not fee him. When (lie enter¬ed the place (he gave the hankerchief to old Luci¬fer, who laid it upon the (helf, from whence Jacktook it, and BVought it to his maftei;, who (hewed itto the lady the next day, and fo Faved his Ike.The next night (he faluted the king’s Ion, tellinghim he rauft (liew her to-morrow morning the lipsthat (lie killed laft this night, or'ldfe his head. Ah !replied he, if you kifs none *but mine, I will. ’Tisneither here nor there, fend fiie, if you do not, death’syour portion. At midnight (he went as before, andwas angry with Lucifer for letting the handkerchiefaway ; but now, laid (he, I’ll be too hard for theking's fon, tor I will kifs thee, and he*s to (hew thylips ; which (he did. Jack (landing near him withhis fword of (harpnefs, cut off the devil's head, andbrqught.it under his invifible coat to his mafter, whowas in bed, and laid it at the head of ids bolder. Inthe morning when the lady came up, he pulled itout by the horns, and (hewed her the devil’s head*which (lie kiffed lad.Thus having anfwered her twice, the enchantment.broke, and the evil (pirit left her ; at which time*(he appeared in all beauty ; a beautiful and .virtu¬ous creature. They were married the next morjiir.g,in great pomp and folemnity, and loon .after theyreturned, with a numerous-company, to the courtof king Arthur, where they-where received with thegreaten joy, and loud acclamations, :bv the .wholevrourt. Jack for the many and great exploh? he haH•done for the good of his country, was. made #*te ofvthe knights of the round fable.■Thus we have flnilhed .the fird par4 e<{ this Hif-' tory, which now leads us to .the fecom partfw'bere-rin yon have a mr -s full account of the many valiantand wonderful exploits, whidi were done by that boldadvehtrous, great, inviniible, and valiant hero Jack.’the Giant-killer.THE SECOND T A 11 T.TIow Jack, by king Artliuf’s leave, went in purluit.of Giants alive.JA C-K haying been ducceFsfnl in all H!s undertak¬ings, be relolved not be idle for the future, butto perform what Service he could for the honour of»his king and country. He 'humbly requelted of theking his royal matter., ’to fit bi n with a horfe andmoney to travel in lear«ih of new and ttrange adven-.tures: For, laid he, there ate many Giant* yet alivetin the remotefli parts of tire kingdom, and the do¬minions of Wal?s, to the unfpeakable damage ofyour JVlajeily’s tiege luhjefts; wherefore, may it pkai'd'youf Majeity to give me encouragement but 1 doabt.not iu a faant time to cut them off toot and branch,and to rid the realm of the Giants and devouringmoniters of nature.i^ow when the king had heard thole noble propo-fttions, and had duly coifuk ed the rr.ikliaevous prac¬tices of thele blood-thiitty Giants, he immediatelygranted what hone It Jack refuelled; a ad on the iritl.. -day of March, and thoroughly furnifhed with all ne.cdTaries for his progrefs, he took his leave, not onlyof king Arthur, but likewtfe of all his trufty andhardy knights belonging to the round table, who,after much falutation and friendly greeting, theyparted, the king and his nobles to their courtly pa¬laces, and Jack the Giant killef to the eager purfuitof fortune’s favour’s, taking with him his cap ofknowledge, fword of (harpnefs, (hoes of fwiftnefs,and likewife the invifible coat, the better to perfectand complete the dangerous enterprizes that lay be¬fore him.How Jack flew a Giant, and delivered a knight andhis lady from death.TACK travelling over vaft hills and wonderfulmountains, when at the end of three days, hecame *o a large and fpacious wood, through whichhe mud needs pafs, when on a fudden, to his greatamazement he heard dreadful (hrieks and cries ;whereupon carting his eyes around to obferve whatit might be, he beheld with wonder a Giant rulhing a-long with a worthy knight and his fair lady, whom |he held by the hair of their heads in his hands, with;as much cafe as if they had been a pair of gloves,the light of which melted poor Jack into tears ofpity and compallion: Whereupon he alighting fromoff his horfe, which he left tied to an oak tree, andputting on his invifible coat, under which he carrriedhis fword of (harpnefs, he came up to the Giant ;and though he made leveral partes at him, yet never-thelefs it could not reach the trunk of his body, byrealbn of his height, though it wounded his thighsin leyeral places: But at length giving him a Twing¬ing itroke, he cut off both his legs, juft below theknees, fo that the trunk of bis body made not onlythe ground to lhake, but likewife the trees to tremblewith the fb'-cc of his fall: at which, by mere goodl *5 /extremlrles ef tlie globe; monarch of alt monarchs*taller than the fons of men ; whofe feet prefs downto the centre, and whofe head fhikes againift the fun ;at whofe nod the nations tremble, pleafant as thefpring, comfortabie as the fummer, fruitful as autumn,dreadful as winter. His fublime majefty propofethto the Man mountain the following articles, which*by a folemn oath, he (hall be, obliged to perform,lit, He thall not depart without licence,sdly, K? (hall not com.: into the metropolis W'kh*-cut leave.jdly, He fhall confine his walks to the high roads,and not lie down in any meadow or corn field.4thly, he fhall take care not to trample upon anyof our fubjefts, their horles and carriages-5thly. If an exprefs requires extiaordintry difi-patch, he (hall be obliged to carry in his pocket themeflenger and horfe, and return them fafe and found.It €rhly, He ft ill be our ally againft our enemies7thl.y, I«Ie fhall be aiding and affiiling ro our work*tnen in raifing large ftones for covering the park walls?and other royal buildingsLaflly, That upon the ratifies’ion of thefe articles,be fhall have a daily allowance of meat and d.ink,fnfficiont for the fupport oF fevenieen bundled andtwenty four men.#As foon as Mr Gulliver had fworn to, and fub-fciibed thefe articles, his chains were unlocked, andhe was at full liberty ; he immediately made hi- ac¬knowledgment by proflrating himfelf at his majefty’sfeet The emperor gracioully ordered him to rife,and after many expieflions of friendflrip, told him,that he hoped he would prove an ufeful fervant, anddeferve the favours hehal already, or might hereafterconfer upon him.C H \ P. IV.Mihnh. the metropolis, defcribed. Ctnverfaticn •witha principal Secretary.rPHE wall of the city of Milendo is two feet snd a- half hi^ht and feven inches broad, f» that acoach may be driven upon the top of it, and thereare ftrong towers at the diftance of every* ten feet.Mr Gulliver eafily ftrode over the wall, and wentcarefully through the principal ftreets, in his waift-coat only, for fear the flcirts of his coat might da¬mage the roofs and walls of the houfes. The garretwindows, and the tops of houfes, were fo crowdedwith fpetlators, tnat Mr Gulliver imagined the ci¬ty mud contain at lead five hundred thoufandfouls. Some of the houfes were five dories high, themarkets well provided, and the (hops very rich. Thecity is an exaft fquare of five hundred feet ; twogreat dreets, which divide it into quarters, are fivefeet wide; tba lanes and allies are from twelve toeighteen inches. The emperor's palace, which is inthe center, is inclofed by a wall two feet high ; the /outward court is a vad fquare of forty feet, and herefland the royal apartments. Fhefe Mr Gulliver,by lying down on his fide, and applying his face tothe windows, had the pleafu e of viewing, ar.d hefound them more fplendid than could be imagined.He faw the emprefs and the young princefs in theirfeveral lodgings, and her majedy was pleafed to puther hand out at the window for him to kifs.About a fortnight after Mr Gulliver obtained hisliberty, he was vifited by Reldrefal, the principal fe-cretary. Reldrefal complimented him on his liberty,and entered into a political converfation with greatdown dead, whofo dreadful fall had like to havecrufhed poor Jack, had he riot been nimble enoughto have avo.ided the fame.This being done, Jack cut off both the Giantsheads, and fent them both to King Arthur, by a wag-i goner whom he had hired for that purpole, together[ with an account of his pt»l'perous luccefs in his un-I dertakings.! How Jack fearched their cave, and delivered manymen out of captivity.JACK having thus difpatched thefe two monfters,refolved with himfelf to enter the cave in fearchi of thefe Giants treaiiire. He paffed along through| many turnings and windings, which led h i at lengthI to a room paved with free ftone, at the upper end of, which was a boiling caldron; then on the right handI, flood a large table, whereat be fuppofed the Giant*ll uled to dine ; then he came to an iron gate, wherei| was a window fecured with bars of iron, throughi which he looked, and there beheld a vafl many mi¬ll ferable captives, who feeing Jack at a diftance, criedout with a loud voice, Alas ! young man, art thou; come to be one among us in this miferable den ?i Ay, quoth Jack, I hope I fhall not tarry lorig here :j But pray tell me what is the meaning of your captr-ivity? Why, faid one young man. I’ll tell you, wej are perfons that have been taken by the Giants thatikeep this cave, and here are we kept till fuch timeis they have occafion for a particular fealt, and thenbe fatteft among us is flaughtered, and prepared»r their devouring jaws; it is not long fmcc theyook three of us for the fame purpofe ; nay, manyimes they have dinned entirely on murdered men, fayou fo, quoth Jack, well, 1 have given them botrijeh a dinner, that it will be long enough e’re they*!!avc occafton for any more. The miierabie captivesrere amazed at his words. You may believe me*lent them in a %vaggori to the court of King Arthur,as trophies of iny unparaleiled victory. And tor ateftimony of the truth of what he faic^ he unlockedthe iron gate, fetting the mifcrable captives at liberty,who all rejoiced like condemned malefactors at thelight of a reprive : Then leadiug them all. togetherto the aforel'aid room, he placed them, round thetable, and fet before them two quarters, of beef, asall’o bread and wine, fo that he fealled them veryplentifully. Supper being ended, they fearckcd theGiant’s coffers, where finding a valt ftore of goldand lilver. Jack equally divided it amongft them ;they all returned their hearty thanks for their trea-fure and miraculous deliverance. That night theywent to their reft, and in the morning they arofe anddeparted ; the captives to their refpeCtive towns andplaces of abode, and Jack to ..the Jaiight’s houfe,whom he had formerly dtliveied from the hands ofthe Giant.iivvv jp.vw v<w»« tC ths knis-t’s houfe, and his nobleentertaihnicnt there.IT was about lun rifing when Jack mounted his horleto proceed on his journey, and by the help of thedirections he came to the knight’s boufe feme timebefore noon, where he was received with all demon*Itration of joy imaginable by the knight and his lady,who in an honourable refpeCt to Jack, prepared afeaft which iafted for many days, inviting all thegentry in the adjacent parts, to whom the worthyknight was pleafed to relate his former danger, andthe happy deliverance, by the undaunted courage ofJack the Giant killer : And by way of gratitude, heprefented him with a ring of gold, on which wasengraven by a curious artift, the picture of theGiant dragging a diftrelled knight and his fair ladyby the hair of their heads, with this motto :We were in great diftrefs you ice.Under a Giant’s fierce command.But gain’d our lives and libertyBy valiant Jack’s vi&oiious hand.Now amongft the vaft affdtnbly there prefent, werefive aged gentlemen, who were fathers to lonae of thoiemiferable captives which Jack had lately fet at liber¬ty, who underltanding that he was the perfon thatperformed thofe great wonders, they immediatelyj paid their venerable refpe&s. After which their mirthincrealed, and the fm ung bowls went freely roundI to the profperous fucceis of the victorious conquerorBut in the midlt of all their mirth, a dark cloud ap¬peared, which daunted all the hearts of this aflembly.Thus it was, a melfenger brought the difmal tid¬ings of the approach of one Thunderdei, a hugej Giant with two heads, who having heard of the deathi; of his kinimen, the above named Giants, was comei! from the northern pole in fearch after Jack, to be! revenged on him for their moft milerableiand was within a mile of the knight's feat, the coun¬try people flying before him from their houles andlhabitations like chaff before the wind. When they‘ihad related this. Jack not a whit daunted, faid, Lefi|him come, I am prepared with a tool to pick his teeth,land you ladies and' gentlemen, walk but forth intoIthe garden, and you fhall be the joyful fpeflators of: -kids, monttrous Giant’s death and deftru&ion. Toiwhich they all confent, every one wifhing him goodFortune in that great and dangerous enterprise.How Jack overthrew the Giant in the moat, and cutoff both his heads'.THE fituation of the knight’s houfe, take as fol¬lows : It was placed in the midlt of a fmall ifland,mcompafled round with a vafl: moat, thirty feet deep,nd twenty feet wide, over which lay a draw-bridge.WhercfoVe Jack employed two men to cat it on bothluies, almost to the middle, and then dreffing hin.Jeltin bis coat of darknefs, likewife putting on his ihoesof Avittneis, lie marches forth againft the Giant withhis 1'word of lharpuds ready drawn ; yet when hecame clofe op to him, the Giant could not fee Jack,by reafbn of his invitibic coat which he had on, yetnevertbeleis he was fenfible of fome approachingdanger, which made him cry out in thele followingwords:Fc, Fi, Fo, Fum,I fmell the blood rf an EnglifhmanBe he living or be he dead,I’ll grind his bones to mix my bread.Says thou i'o, quoth Jack, then thou, art a monftrousmiller indeed : But hew if I fiiould ler.ve thee as !did the two Giants of late, in my conlcience 1 fhouldIpoil your pfadicc for the future. At which time theGrant fpoke with a voice as loud as thunder. Artthou that villain which deftroyed my two kinfmen ;then will 1 tear thee with my teeth, fuck thy bloodand what is more, I will grind thy bones to powderYou mult catch me firit, quoth Jack ; and with ththe threw olF his coat of darknefs that the Gianmight fee him clearly, and then rum ffona him athrough fear. The Giant with foaming mouth an.glaring eyes, following after like a walking caftlemaking the foundations of the earth, as it were, ttremble at every Itep. Jack led him a dance thme ofour times round the meat that belonged to the knight’houie, that the ladies and gentlemen might taka full view of this huge monfter of nature, who followed Jack with all his might, but could not overtake him by reafon of his ihfees of Iwiftftefs, whiecarried him falter than the Giant could follow. Alength Jack to fintlh the work, took over ihe bridgethe Giant with full fpeed purluing after him with iiiron Club upon hi* Ihoulder ; but coming to the roil( ir )die of the drawbridge, when with the weight of liisbody and the moft dreadful flops that he took, it brokedown, and he tumbled into the water, where heroil’d and waHowed like a whale: Jack ftanding atth6 fide of the moat laughed at the Giant,, and laid.You told fne you would Grind hy hones to powder ;here you have water enough, pray where is your .dll?The Giant fretted and frowned to hear him (cod' atthat rate/and though he plunged frejm place to piocein the moat', yet he could get out to be revengedOn Ms a/dvertary. ‘ Jack at length took a cut rope,and caft it over the Giant’s two heads, with fi.ipknot, and hy the help of a team of horfes, draggedhim out again, with which he was near firangled ;and before hd would let hint) loofe ho cut off both hisheads with his fword of fliarpncfs,’ in the view of allthe worthy alTernbly ^fknights, ladies, and gendenen,•who gave a joyful Ihout when they law the Giantfairly dil'patched. Then before he would either eatoridyinkj.he fent tlaele heads alfo, after'the otliers toth%Jcourt of icing Arthur; which being done,- IheaJack with the knights and ladies, returned to therfmirth and paftlnfe which lafled many days.How Jack came to the houfe of an old Hermit andwhat ciilcSurle pa fled between them.FTER fome time fpent in trui.iiph’anf mirth andpaflime, Jack grew weary of riotous livingwherefore taking leave of the--noble knights and la¬dies he let forward in the fearch j>f new adventuVcs,Tlmough many groves and woods he palled, mcc.iagwith nothing remarkable, till at the length comi j'<r‘.o the foot of A high mountahn late u night, i, ■ kr. -i k-•d at the door of a lonelbme hoUie, at '• hich timean ancient man, with a head as white as Ihr.v, a. letnd let him in Father, laid Jack, have you any.ntertainmentTor a ben:ghted traveller thu. k ■ logiiis way? Yes, laid the old man, if you wili .uneatof fuch accomodation as my cottage will afford, thou(halt'be tight welcome. Jack returned him manythanks for his great civility ; wherefore down theyfat together, and the old man began to difcourfe himas follaws: Son, laid he, I am fenfible thou art thegreat conqueror of Giants, and it is in thy power tofree this place of the country from an intolerableburden which we groan under: for behold, my fon,on the top of this high mountain there is an enchant¬ed raflle, kept by a huge monftrous Giant, namedGalgantus, who, by the help of an old conjurorbetrays many knights and ladies into his ftrong caftle,where by magic art they are transformed into fundryfhapes and forms; but above all, I lament the fadmisfortune of a duke’s daughter, whom they fetchedfrom her father’s garden by art, carrying her throughthe air in a morning chariot, drawn as it were by twofiery dragons, and being fecured within the walls ofthe caftle, (he was immediately transformed into the.real fhape of a white hind ; many worthy knightshave attempted deliverance, yet none of them couldaccomplifh this great work, by realon of two dreadfulGriffins, who are fixed by magic art at the entranceof the caftle gate, which deftroys any as foon as theyfee them : But you, my fon, Being furnilhed with aninvifible coat, may pals by them undifeovered; whereupon the brazen gates of the taftle, you Will find'en¬graven in large charaifters, by what the enchantriientmay be broken.This old man having ended his difcourle, Jackgave him his hand, with a faithful promife, that inthe morning he would venture his life to break theenchantment and freethe lady, together with the reftthat were miferable partners in her calamity,ilmv Jack got into the enchanted caftle, broke the' enchantment, killed tbeGiant, put the conjurer toflight, let free the knights and ladies, likewife theduke’s daughter, whom he afterwards married.( ^ ) .HAVING rcfreiTicd thcmfillvcs with a fmall morft.of meat, they laid them down to reft, and in themorning Jack arofe and put on his inviiible coat, histap of knowledge, and (hoes of fwiftnefs, and fo pre¬pares himfelf for the dangerous enterprize^Now when he had afeended to the top of the moun¬tain, he foon difeovered the two Griffins ; fo hepafled on between without fear, for they could notlee him by reafon of his invifible coat. Now whenhe was got beyond them, he caft his eyes aroundhim, where he found upon the gates a golden trum¬pet, hung in a chain of fine fiver, under which thelelines were engraven.Whoever (hall this trumpet blow.Shall foon the Giant overthrow,And break the black enchantment ftreight.So all lhall be in a happy ftate.Jack had no fooner read thislnlcription but be blewthe trumpet, at which time the vaft foundation of theeaftle trembled, and the Giant together with the con¬juror, were in horrid confufion, biting their thumbs,and tearing their hair, knowing their wicked reignwas at an end. At which time jack (landing at theGiant’s elbow, as he was (looping to take up his club,he at one blow, with his fword of (harpnels, cut offhis head. The conjuror feeing this, immediatelymounted into the air, and was carried away in a whirl¬wind. Thus was the whole enchantment broke, andevery knight and lady who had been for a long timetransformed into birds and beads, returned, to theirproper (hapes again ; .and as for the caftle, thoughit leemed at firft to be of a vaft ftrength and bignefs,it vanilhed away like a cloud of fmoke ; whereuponan univerfaljoy appeared among the releafed kniofitsand ladies. This being done, the head of Galgautuswas likewife, according to his accuttomed mannerconveyed to the court of king Arthur, as a prole..t•rude to liis Majfcftv. The very next (Jay, after har-rcf-eihed the knights ami Lillies at the old man’shabitation, who lived at the foot of the mountain,. he fct foreward for the court ot king Arthur, withthofe knights and ladies he had fo honourably deli-Tered.V* hen com;ng to his majelty, and having relatedall the palTages of his fierce encounters, anth Iris’ famerang through the whole court, and as a reward ofhis good' fm-vice, the king prevailed with the afore*faid duke to beiiow his daughter in marriage on ho¬ned )it;k, proteding that there was no man fo worthyof her as lie, to all which the duke very honourablycontented. So married they were, and not only thecourt hut I ike wife the kingdom was filled with joyand triumph at the wedding, after which the Tingas a icward for his good fervices done to the nation,beftowv’d upon him a noble habitation, with a veryplentiful! eitate belonging thereunto, where he andin* lady lived the remainder of their days in great»o.y and happinds.