THE LIFEOFWho was born in (lie Parish ofGLENCAIRY, DUMFRIES-SHIRE,Feb. 15, 1GG2, and where a Monumentwas erected to his Memory in 1327.Suffered MartyrdomAT EDINBURGH,February t7tli, HiSH.DUMFRIES:PRINTEDFOR THE BOOKSELLERS.LIFE OF M JA31ES EENWIOK.Mit James IlsNwicii was born in the parish of G!en- iearn, in Dumfries-shire, February 15th, 1662. H:parents, though not rich, were exemplary for pietyHis father, Andrew Renwiek, a weaver by trade, amhis mother, Elizabeth Corsan, had several ehildrei ibefore Mr James, who died young ; tor which, w het •his mother was pouring forth her motherly grief, he: thusband used to comfort her with declaring, that hwas well satisfied to have children, whether they livec ior died young or old, providing they might be heirof glory. But with this she could not attain to 1satisfied ; but she had it for her exercise to seekchild from the Lord, that might not only be an heiof glory, but might live to serve him in his genera j.tiou ; whereupon, when Mr James was born, she toolrt as an answer of prayer, and reputed herseU' unde; Cmanifold engagements todedicate him tothe Lord, win •satisfied her with very early evidences of his accept-that return of his own gift, and confirmed th>Fisame by very remarkable appearances of his graciousdealings with the child ; for, by the time be was tw«)ryears of age, lie was observed to be aiming at prayereven in the cradle, and about it, wherewith his motfuj !;conceived such expectations and hopes, that the Lore iwould be with him and do good by him, as that all thi .reproaches he sustained, difficulties and dangers thaafterwards he underwent, to his dying day, neve .moved her in the least from the confidence that th-Lord would carry him through and oft the stage, iisome'honourable way for his own glory. His fathealso, before his death, on February 1st, 1679, obtainei ■the same persuasion, that his time in tidy world wouljbe bat short, but that the Lord would', make sonij >.'emkjeut use of him.itAfter he had learned to read the Bible, when aboutsix years old, the Lord gave, him some sproutings ofgracious (preparations, training him in his way, exer¬cising him with doubts and debates about childishapprehension, as to tho Maker of all things, how allthings were made, and for what end; and with strangesuppositions of so many invisible worlds, above andbeneath, with which he was transported into a trainof musing, and continued in this exercise for aboutthe space of two years, until he, by prayer and medi¬tation on the hi=tory of the creation, came to athorough belief that God made all things, and thatall which he made was very good. And yet, afterhe came to more maturity, ho relapsed into a deeper(labyrinth of darkness about these foundation truth#,and was so assulted with temptations of atheism, thatbeing in the fields, and looking to the mountains, hesaid, “ If these were all devouring furnaces of burn¬ing brimstone, he would be content to go throughthem all, if so be he could be assured there was aGod.” Out of this, however, he emerged, throughgrace, into the sweet serenity of a settled persuasionof the being of a God, and of his interest in him.. From his younger years, he made much conscienceof obeying bis parents, whose order (if they hadspoken of putting him to any trade) he would no waydecline; yet his inclination was constant for his book,until Providence propitiously furnished him withjmeans of greater proficiency at Edinburgh, by many ,who were so enamoured of his hopeful disposition,.that they earnestly promoted his education. Whenhe was ready for the university, they encouraged himtin attending gentlemen’s sous, for the improvementboth of their studies and his own ; which associationtof youths, as it is usually accompanied with, varioustemptations to youthful vanity, so it enticed him, withsome others, to spend too much of his time in gamingand recreations. It was then, for no otiier part ofhis time can be instanced, that some who knew him4not, took occasion, from this extravagance, to reproac.him with profanity and flagitiousness, which his natore ever abhorred, and disdained the very suspicionthereof. When his time at the college drew near a*end, he demonstrated such a tenderness of offendingGod, &c., that upon his refusal of the oath of allegijiance then tendered, he was denied his share of thi !public solemnity of laureation with the rest of th> ;candidates, but received it privately at Edinburgh iAfter which he continued his studies, attending ortthe then priva. persecuted meetings for gospe iordinances for a time.But upon a deplorable discovery of the unfaithfulness of the generality, even of non-conformist ministers. he was again for some time plunged into th idepths of darkness, doubting what should be the enof such backsliding courses, until, upon a more inquisitive search after such ministers as were most frefrom these defections, he found more light, and hknowledge of the iniquity of these courses was anmented, and his zeal increased. And being mor 1confirmed, when he beheld how signally the faithfiministers were owned of the Lord, and carried o:the stage with great stedfastness, faith, and patiencespecially that faithful minister and martyr, MDonald Cargill, at whose execution he was presenJnly 27lh, 1681,he was so moved, that he determineto embark with these witnesses in that cause for whicthey suffered ; and he was afterwards so strengthene-and established in this resolution, getting instructioi:about things in and from the word, so sealed withstrong hand upon his soul, that all the temptationstribulations, oppositions, and contradictions' he me Iwith from all hands to the day of his death, coulnever shake his mind to doubt the least coucerninj ithem.Accordingly, in this persuasion, formed upoi *grounds of scripture and reason, he, in October1681, came to a meeting with some of these faithfuwitnesses of Clirisf, and conferring about tlio testi¬monies of some other martyrs lately executed, whichhe was very earnest always to gather and keep onrecord, he refreshed them greatly by a discourse,shewing how much he was grieved and offended withthose who heard the curates, pleaded for cess paying,and defended the owning of the tyrants’ authority,kc. ; and how sad it was to him that none were givinga formal testimony against these things; and in theend added, “ That he would think it a great ease tohis mind to know and be engaged with a remnantthat would singly prosecute and propagate the testi¬mony against the corruptions of the times to thesucceeding generations, and would desire nothingmore than to be helped to be serviceable to them."At his first coming among them lie could not butbe taken notice of, for while some were speaking ofremoving the bodies of the martyrs, lately executedat the Gallowiee, Mr Kenwick was very forward top -omote it, and active to assist therein, and when thesincere seekers of God, who were interspersed up. and down the land, and adhered to the testimony, asMessrs Cameron and Cargill left it, towards the endof 16'81, began to settle a correspondence in general,for preserving union, understanding one another’sminds, and preventing declensions to right or lefthand extremes. In the first of which, (the Duke o!\ ork holding a parliament at Edinburgh) they agreefupon emitting tliat declaration published at Lanark,January 12th, 1682. wherein Mr Ltenwick was em-, ployed proclaiming it, but had no hand in the penningthereof, otherwise it might have been more consider¬ately worded than what it was; lor though lie ap¬proved of the matter of it, yet he always acknow¬ledged there were some expressions therein ratherunadvised.After the publishing of this declaration, the nextgeneral meeting, finding themselves reproached and.informed against, both at home and abroad, in foreign6r \dmrches. as if they had fallen from the principles of the.church of Scotland, thought it expedient to send thelaird of Earlstounto the United Provinces to vindicatothemselves from these reproaches, and to crave thatsympathy which they could not obtain from their own:countrymen. Which at length, through mercy,proved so encouraging to them, that a door wasopenedto provide for a succession of faithful ministers, by;sending some to be fitted for the work of the ministrythere. Accordingly Mr Ifenwick, with some others,went thither. His comrades were ready, and sailer! (before, which made him impatiently haste to follow*Yet, at his departure, to a comrade, he affirmedJ.;“ Though they were gone before him, as they diifLnot depait together, so he saw something should fallout, which should obstruct their coming home to- tgether also.” This was verified by the falling off °TMr Flint (however forward at that time) to a con¬trary course of defection.When he went over, he was settled at the nniver-isily of Groningen, where he plied Ids studies so hard,)and with such proficiency, from the necessities of hisfriends in Scotland, who were longing for his labours,and his own ardent desire to be at the work, that inia short time he was ready for ordination. To hasten jthis, his dear friend Mr Robert Hamilton, who inerit< .ed so much of those who reaped the benefit of Mtllenwick’s labours afterwards, applied to one Mf ,a Brake!, a godly Dutch minister, who. was much de| .lighted at first wkh the uiotior, and advised that ilshould bo dene at Kinbilen, but this could not bi !obtained, because the principal man there who wa; i,to have tire-management of the affair, was in hi»judgment, Cocceian. Whereupon Mr Hamilton so, ellcited the classis of Groningen to undertake it, which ,they uiUfpgly promised to do; and cal’ing tor thetest nlonials of Mr Renwick, and the rest who wei)fover at that lime, Mr Ren wick's was produced, (beingsprovidentially in readiness when the others were a-;'- !*> - -7iivaniing) and though in a ruda dfess, was sustained*The classis being convened, they were called in andrad an open harangue, wherein open testimony wadTiven against all the forms and corruptions of theirchurch; whereat they were so far from being offended,that after a solemn and serious consideration of theirlause, they declared it was the Lord’s cause, and costwhat it would, though all the kings of the earth wereigainst it, they \tould go through with it. They allLhree should hate passed together, but upon somedifferences arising, the Other two Were retarded. ItWas the custom of the place, that every one thatpasses must pay twenty guilders, for the use of thechurch ; but the classis declared, that they would beat ail the charges themselves.But the next difficulty was, that being told it wasimpossible for any to pass without' subscribing their' Catechism, and observing that their forms and cor¬ruptions were therein justified, Mr Renwick resolutely-answered, he would do no such thing, being engagedby a solemn covenant, to the contrary. This was liketo spoil ail ; but at length they condescended that he- subscribe the Confession and Catechism of the church‘ of Scotland, a practica nevitr before heard of in thatland ; which was accepted. The day of ordinationbeing come, Mr Ren wick was called in a very res¬pectful way. After spending some rime in prayer,the examination began, w Inch lasted from ten in themorning to two o’clock in the afternoon. Then hisfriends, who were attending in the church, were calledin, (amongst whom was his honoured friend MrHamilton, and another elder of the church of Scot¬land) to witness the laying on of hands, which, after' the exhortation, they performed with prayer, thewhole meeting melting in tears; and thereafter hehad a discourse to the elassls. With this solemnity1 the classis were so much affected, that at dinner, td‘ which he and his friends were invited, the pre'ses de-• clared the great satisfaction all the brethren had inMr Renwick; that they thought the whole time hevwas before them, he was so filled with the Spirit oftGod, that his face seemed to shine, arid that they hadnever seen or found so much of the Lord’s Spiriaccompanying any work as that ordination. But nsooner were these difficulties over, than others ofmore disagreeable aspect began to arise, which, ithey had appeared but one day sooner, might havstopped the ordination, at least for a time. Ob thevery next day, Mr Brakel told them, that a formallibel was coming from the Scottish ministers at Rot- fterdam, containing heavy accusations against the poor 'society-people in Scotland, which they behoved eitherto vindicate, or else the ordinatiou must be stopped ;but this being too late as to Mr Renwick, it came to 4nothing at last.After his ordination, he had a most longing desireto improve his talents for the poor persecuted peoplein Scotland, who were his brethren ; and having; rreceived large testimonials of his ordination and learn- ring (particularly in the Hebrew and Greek tongues)'from the classis, and finding a ship ready to sail, he1 'embarked at the Brill; but waiting some days upona wind, he was so discouraged by some profane pas-fsengers pressing the King’s health, &c., that he was i-forced to leave that vessel, and take another bound. ■for Ireland. A sea storm compelled them to put in :to Rye harbour in England, about the time whenthere was so much noise of the Ryehouse plot, whiccreated him no small danger; but, after many perilat sea, he arrived safe at Dublin, where he had manyconflicts with the ministers there, anent their defectionsand indifference ; and yet in such a gaining and gospel-way, that he left convictions on their spirits, ohis being a pious and zealous youth, which procuredhim a speedy passage to Scotland. In this passagehe had considerable dangers, and ’ a prospect omore, as not knowing how or where he should cometo land, all ports being then so strictly observed, and$the skipper refusing to let him go till his name begiven up. But yet at last he was prevailed on togive him a cast to the shore, where he began hisweary and uncertain wanderings, (which continuedwith him till he was apprehended) through an un¬known wilderness, amongst unknown people, it beingsome time before he could meet with any of thesocieties.In September, 1G83, he commenced his ministerialwork in Scotland, taking up the testimony of thestandard of Christ where it was fixed, and had fallenat the removal of the former witnesses, Messrs Ca¬meron and Cargill, which, in the strength of hisMaster, he undertook to prosecute and maintain a-jainst opposition from all hands, which seemed un-tsupportable to sense and reason.In the midst of which difficulties, he was receivedby a poor persecuted people, who had lost all thatworldly enjoyment they had, for the sake of the gos-ipel. His first public meeting was in the moss atDarmead, where for their information and his ownvindication, he thought it expedient not only to letthem know how he was called to the ministry, andwhat he adhered to, but besides to unbosom himselfabout the then puzzling questions of the time, par¬ticularly concerning ministers, defections, &c.; shew¬ing whom he could not join with, and his reasons forso doing; and in the end telling them on what groundshe stood, and resolved to stand upon ; which he re¬solved (the Lord assisting him) to seal with his blood.After this the father of lies began to spue out aflood of reproaches, to swallow up and bury hisname and work in contempt, which was very cre¬dulously entertained, and industriously spread, notonly by the profane, but even by many professors.Some said, he had excommunicated all the ministersin Scotland, and some after they were dead ; where-iss, he only gave reasons why he could not keepcommunion with them in the present circumstances.ifOOthers said, that he was no 1’resln terian, and thathis design was only to propagate schism. J’ut thetruth was, he was a professed witness against ailthe detections of Presbyterians from any part oftheir covenanted work of reformation, &c. Again,oilier ministers alleged he was a Sectarian, Inde¬pendent, or Anabaptist, or they knew not what; iBut when he had sometimes occasion to be among ithese in and about Newcastle, and Northumberland,they were as much offended as any pt his faithful :freedom in discovering the evils of their way, anddeclared that they never met with such severedealing from any Presbyterian before.But the general ont-cry was, that he had no mis¬sion at all. Others slandering him, that lie cameonly by chance, at a throw of the dice; with manyOther calumnies, refuted by the foregoing relation.On the other hand, some gave out that he andhis followers maintain'el the murdering principles,and the delirious and detestable blasphemies oilGib ; all which shameless and senseless fictions lieever opposed and abhorred. Yea, some ministers, ;more seemingly serious in their essays to prepossessthe peojileagainst him, said, “That they had soughtand got the mind of the Lord in it, that his laboursshould never profit the. church of Scotland, nor anyson! in it,” assuring themselves he would breakj!and bring to nothing, him and them that followedhim ere it were longs comparing them to JannesIand Jambres who withstood Moses. All which 1reproaches he was remarkably supported under,and went on in his Master’s business, while he hadany work for him to doIn the mean while, from the noise that went!through the country concerning him, the Councilfi'got notice; and thereupon, being enraged at thereport of bis preaching in the fields, they raised abetter and more cruel persecution against him thancan he instanced ever to have been against any one11man in the nation ; nay, than ever the most notori- *(inis murderer was pursued with For, hnvin.' Fi.publicly proclaimed him a traitor, rebel, ftc.l tlieV' !proceeded to pursue his tohiowers with rd! tlie rigotiV-hat liellish fury and malice could sirggehtor invent;^ind yet (lie more they opposed, the more they grew/ind increased.; In 1GS4, his dithculties from enemies, and dis¬couragements from friends ' opposed to him, and; nanifold vexations from all hands, began to increase•nore and more; yet all the while he would notntermit one day’s preaching, but was still incessantmd undaunted in his work. This made the mini¬sters inform against him, as if he had intrudedi ipon other men’s labours; alleging, that wheni mother minister had appointed to preach in a place,re unexpectedly came and preached in the samer irish ; and for that purpose, instanced one timerear Paisley; whereas ire went upon a call frontSeveral in that bounds, without knowing then(vhether there was such a minister ircthaf country.t is confessed, that Ire hath sometimes taken thephurches to preach in, when either the weather-,; nstant hazard at the time, or respCi-f to secrecy and. afety,'ditf exclude from every- other place1. Put,v'ould tlris be esdied ictr usidn,1 to creep into thehureh for one night, wbmi thej could not stand,per durst they be seen, nitbout.r Tins year, in prosecution of a er'rttl informationI gainst him, th'e soldiers bdeanie nr me \ igilatit inheir indefatigable diligence to ?- eU and hui t aftertiitn ; and from them he had many rt mirk able de-iveranees. Particularly in the month of duly, ■ -■ le was going to a meeting, -a eotmtry man, dxuingiim wearied, gave linn a horse- for some miles to.ide on, when they were surprised with FieutemuitDundas and a p irty of dragoons. ‘J lie two men'. ith him v ere ti,ke-n atid pitifully’ wounded, i !escaped their hands, and went up Dmiyavel hill r181 4.but was so closely pursued (they being so near thathey fired at him all the time), that he was forceto leave the horse, losing thereby his cloak-bagwith many papers, seeing no other refuge, he wasfain to run, in their sight, towards a heap of stoneswhere, for a little moment, getting out of theiijsight, he found a hollow place into which he creptand committing himself by earnest ejaculation t<God, in submission to live or die ; and also believing, that he should be reserved for greater workthat part of scripture often coming into his mimB.Psal. vi. 8, Depai t from me aili/e workers of iuiqui >/together with these words. Psalm xci. 11, For hshall give his angels charge, &c. In the mean tim.the enemy searched up and down the hill, yet werrestrained from looking into that place where hwas. Many such sore and desperate chaces he ancthose with him met with; some continuing wholnights and days without intermission, in the wildeS;places of the country, for many miles togetheiwithout so much as a possibility of escaping thsight of those who pursued them.T his year, on the 4th September, letters of intercommuning were issued against him,'commanding all to give him no reset or supply, nor furnishim with meat, drink, house, harbour, or any thinuseful to him ; and requiring all sheriffs, &c., to apprehend and commit to prison his person, wherevethey could find him ; by virtue of which, the suiterers were reduced to incredible straits, not onlin being murdered, but also from hunger, cold, hairassings, &c.; in which perplexity, having neithea possibility to flee, nor ability to fight, they werforced to publish arr apologetical representation <the approven principles and practices, and covenantengagements of our reformers, &c., restrict anreduce to practice, that privilege of extraordinarexecuting of judgment, on the murdering beasts cprey who professed and prosecuted a daily trade •138destroying innocents, See When this declaration •was first proposed, Mr Renwick was somewhataverse to it, fearing the sad effects it might produce ; •but, considering that the necessity of the case wouldadmit of no delay, he consented, and concurred inthe publication thereof. Accordingly it was fixedupon several market-crosses and parish churchdoors, November 8th, iGSf.After the publication of this declaration, rage andreproach seemed to strive which should shew thegreatest violence against the publishers and ownersof it. The Council published a proclamation fordiscovering such as owned or would not disown it;requiring that none above the age of sixteen travelwithout a pass, and that any who would apprehendany of them should have 500 merks for each person ;and that every one should take the oath of abjura¬tion ; whereby the temptation and hazard becameso dreadful, that many were shot instantly in thefields; others, refusing the oath, were brought in,sentenced and executed in one day ; yea, spectatorsat executions were required to say, whether thesemen suffered jnstly or not. All which dolorouseffects, and more, when Mr Renwick, with a sadand troubled heart observed, he was often heard tosay, though he had peace in his end and aim by it,yet he wished from his heart, that that declarationhad never been published.Neither was the year 1685 any thing better. Forit became now the enemy’s greatest ambition andemulation, who could destroy most of these poorwandering mountain men, (as they were called ;)and when they had spent all their balls, they werenothing nearer their purpose than when they began;for the more they were afflicted, the more theygrew. The bush did burn, but rvas not consumed,because the Lord was in the bush.Charles II. being dead, and the Duke of York,a professed Papist, being proclaimed in February,H1(?S5. Mr Hemvick could not let go this opportunityof witnessing against the usurpation by a Papist"of the government of the nation, and his:design ofoverturning the covenanted work of reformaiioinand introducing Popery. Accordingly, lie and a<-fbout 200 men went to Sanquhar, May 28th, 1685, ;and .published that declaration, afterwards calledjithe Sanquhar Declaration.In i 787, a proclamation was issued out, February :12th, tolerating the moderate Presbyterians to meetin their private houses to hear the indulged mini¬sters, while the field-meetings should be prosecuted iwith tiie utmost rigour of law. Sic, A -second iproclamation was given, June 28th, allowing all UrServe God in their own way, in any house, etc. A .third was emitted, October 5th, declaring that all .preachers and hearers at any meeting in the open :fields, should be prosecuted with the utmost severity sthat law would allow, that all dissenting ministerswho. preach in houses should teach nothing that tshould alienate the hearts of the people from the Egovernment; and that the privy counsellors, sheriffs,- tetc., should be.acquainted with the places set apart ifor their preaching. This proclamation, it seems, :was granted as an answer to an address for the to-, rleration given in, in name of all the Presbyterianministers, July 2fst, 1687.Whereupon Mr Ren wick found it his duty, not ionly to declare against the grantors, but also against tthe accepters of this toleration ; warning also the:people of the hazard of their accession to it, etc. : ;At this the indulged were so incensed, that no :sooner was their meeting well settled, than they jtbegan to shew their teeth at him, calling him an i nintruder, a Jesuit, a white devil, going through the i»land carrying the devil’s white flag, and saying thathe had dons more hurt to the church of Scotlandthan its enemies had done these twenty years. As j talso spreading papers through the- country, as given ■ :15under his hand, to render him odious; wide!) intruth were nothing else than forgeries, wherein theyonly discovered their own treachery.Yet all this could not move him, even when hisijnemies were shooting their arrows at him. Beinglot only the butt of the wicked, but the scorn otprofessors also, who were, at their case, and a mannucli wondered at every way ; yet still he continued:t his work, his inward man increasing mere andnone, when his outward man was mv.Cii decayed ;. -.m) his zeal for fulfilling his ministry, and finishingIris testimony, still increasing the more, the lessneace hud accommodation he could find in theworld. At the same time he became so weak, thatic could not mount or sit on horseback ; so that bejehoved to be carried to the place of preaching,.Hid never in the least eomplaiiyed yd any distemperm the time thereof.. In the mermvhile, the persecution Against himwas.so furious, that in less than five months alter..lie toleration, fifteen most desperate searches weremade for him, To encourage which, a proclamationwas made, October 18th, whefein a reward i f Y103Sterling was offered to any who could bring in thenersons of him and some others, either dead or alive.In the beginning of the year 1G68, being nowIra wing near the period of his course, he ran very[»it, and wrought very heard, both as a Christianind as a minister. And having for some time hadi design to emit something in way of, testimonyagainst both the granters and accepters of the to¬leration, that might afterwards stand on record, hewent towards Edinburgh, and on his way. at Pee¬bles, he escaped very narrowly being apprehended.When at Edinburgh, he longed and could have noi-est till he got that which he, with the concurrenceof some other*} had drawn up in form, delivered ;and upon inquiry, hearing that there was to be nopresbytery or synod of tolerated ininistArs for.sonie16time, he went to Mr Hugh Kennedy, a ministej ogreat note among them, who he heard was tnoderaitor, and delivered a protestation into his handsand then, upon some reasons, emitted it in publi*as his testimony against the toleration.From thence he went to Fife, and preached somtSabbaths; and upon the 29th of January, h<preached his last sermon at Borrowstouriness. Therhe returned to Edinburgh, and lodged in a friend’house on the Castlehill. who dealt in uncustomedgoods ; and wanted his wonted circumspection (hi,time being come), one John Justice, a waiter, discovered the house that very night; and hearinghim praying in the family, suspected who it was (attacked the house next morning, February 1st, anpretending to search for uncustomed goods, thejgot entrance ; and when Mr Renwick came to tindoor, Mr Justice challenged him in these word“ My life for it, this is Mr Renwick.” After whiche went to the street, crying for assistance to carrthe dog Renwick to the guard.In the meantime, Mr James and other two friendessayed to make their escape at another door, buwere repelled by the waiters. Whereupon he dis¬charged a pistol, which made the assailants giveway ; but as he passed through them, one withlong staff hit him on the breast, which doubtless .disabled him for running. Going down the Castlewynd, towards the head of the Cowgate, having ;lost his hat, he was taken notice of, and seizeda fellow on the street, while the other two escapedHe was taken to the guard, and there kept foj*some time. One Graham, captain of the guardseeing him of a little stature and comely youthfucountenance, cried, “What! is this the boy Ren-wiek that the nation hath been so much troubledwith ?" At the same time, one Bailie Charter* -coming in, with great insolency accused him withbawdy-houses, to which he replied with deserve*8:lisdain. He was then carried before a quorum of:he council. And when Graham delivered him offtiis hand he was heard to say, “ Now I have giventtenwick up to the Presbyterians, let them do withlim what they please." What passed here couldnot be learned.He was committed close prisoner, and laid inruns ; where, as soon as he was left alone, he be¬took himself to prayer to his God, making a free)ffer of his life to him, requesting through-bearinggrace, and that his enemies might be restrained'Tom torturing his body ; all which requests weresignally granted, and by him thankfully acknow-edged before his execution.Before he received his indictment, he was taken■>efore the Chancellor, in the Viscount of Tarbet’s' edging, and there examined concerning his owning■ he authority of James VII, the cess, and carryingarms at field-meetings, when he delivered himself,vith such freedom and boldness as astonished allnresent. The reason why he was interrogated anenthe cess was, that a pocket-book was found uponnm, in which were the notes of two sermons heiiad preached on these points which he owned.I here were also some capitals in the same book ;and because the committee was urgent to know thetames, he, partly to avoid torture, and knowingi hey could render the persons no more obnoxious,. ngenuously declared the truth of the matter ; whichIngenuousness did much allay their rage against'tim. Being asked by the Chancellor, What per-uasion he was of? He answered, Of the Protes-ant Presbyterian persuasion. Again, How it cameo pass he differed somuch from other Presbyterians,vho had accepted of the toleration, and owned theking’s authority ? and what he thought of them ?de answered, He was a Presbyterian, and adheredo the old Presbyterian principles, principles whichill were obliged by the covenant to maintain, andr* uwhich wove oncfi generally professed and maintainedl,y the nation, from 1610 to 1660 ; from which theyhad apostatized for a little liberty, they knew not'how Ion«■, as yon yourselves have done for a little 'honour. ° The Chancellor replied, and the rest apvplauded, That they believed that these were the -Presbyterian principles, and that all Presbyterians »would own them as well as he, if they had but the-courage. However, on February Sni, he reeeiyed :his indictment upon the three foresaid heads, viz.,'disowning the King’s authority, the unlawfulnessof paying the cess, and the Unlawfulness of defen¬sive arms; all which he was to answer to on the 8th;of February. To the indictment was added a listof forty-five persons, out of which the jury was to be ■chosen, and a list of the witnesses to be broughtagainst him.After receiving his indictment, his mother goll1access to see him, to whom he spoke many savnurywords. On Sabbath, February 5th, lie regrettedthat now he must leave his poor dock, and declared :“ That if it were his choice, he could not think ol ‘it without terror, to enter again into and ventnrefupon that conflict with a body of sin and death •yet, if he v’ere again to go and preach in the field Jhe durst not Vary in the least, nor flinch one hair-breadth from the testimony, but would look orhimself as obliged to use the same freedom amfaithfulness as he had done before,” And in a let¬ter, on February 6tb, he desired that the person«whose names were decyphered, might be aequaintecwith it; and concludes, “ I desire none may be trmibled on my behalf, but rather rejoice with himwho, with hope and joy, is waiting for his coronatioh-hour.” Another time his mother having askethim how he was,? he answered. He was well, buthat since his last examination he could scarce!’pray. A t which she looked on him with an affright^ rcountenance, and he told her, he could hardly pray10I I* *’ >eing .so taken up with praising, ami ravished with) he joy of the Lord. When his mother was e\-iressing her fear of fainting, saying. How shall {ook upon that head and those hands set up amonglie rest on the port of the city? He smiled, tell-.ng her, she should not see that; for, said he, “I»ave offered my life unto the Lord, and have soughthat he may bind them up ; and I am persuadedhat they shall not he permitted to torture my body,,lor touch one hair of my head farther.”Monday, February 8th, he appeared before theI usticiary, and when his indictment was read, the. Justice-clerk asked him, If he adhered to his former. :onfession, and acknowledged all that was in the; ipel ? He answered, £i AH except where it is said"[ have cast off all fear of God : that I deny, for it,1s because I fear to offend God, and violate his law,phat I am here standing ready to be condemned.'’Then he was interrogated, If he owned authority,i and James VII. to be his lawful sovereign? Heinswered, “ I own all authority that hath its pre¬scription and limitations from the word of God,but cannot own this usurper as lawful king, seeing, Doth by the word of God, such an one is incapablei to bear rule, and likewise by tiie ancient laws of!the kingdom, which admit none to the- crown,ofScotland, until he swear to defend the protesfantreligion, which a man of his profession could notdo.” They urged, Could he deny him t> be King?\V is he not the late King’s brother? Had the lateKing any children lawfully begotten ? Was liehot declared to be Ids successor by act of parlia¬ment? He answered, <c He was no doubt Kingde faclo, but not dsjnrc; that he was brother to theotiier King, he knew nothing to tl e contrary ; what1 children tiie other had lie knew not; but from theword of God, that ought to be the rule of all laws,or from the ancient laws of the kingdom, it couldnot be shewn that lie had, or ever could have any20ri&ht.” The nc\t question was. If lie owned, anhad taught it to be unlawful to pay cesses and taxations to his Majesty? He answered, “for th:present cess, enacted for the present usurper,hold it unlawful to pay it, both in regard it is op<pressive to the subject, for the maintenance of ty:iranny, and because it is imposed for suppressing !tthe gospel. Would it have been thought lawfutifor tho Jews, in the days of Nebuchadnezzar, thave brought every one a coal to augment the flam *of the furnace to devour the three children, if sthey had been required by that tyrant ?”Then the assizers were called in by fives, ami:swot'll, against whom he objected nothing, but pro'ttested, “That none might sit on his assize tha1professed Protestant or Presbyterian pri ciples, o :an adherence to the covenanted work of reformation.: nHe was brought in guilty, and sentence passed bThat he should be executed in the Grassmarket ot sthe Friday following. Lord Linlithgow, Justice: mgeneral, asked, If he desired longer time? H«,:ianswered, “ It was all one to him; if it was pro; intraded, it was welcome ; if it was shortened, it wai swelcome ; his Master’s time was the best.” He waj !■then returned to \ rison. Without his knowledge Itand against his will, yea, after open refusing to the tAdvocate to desire it, he was reprieved to the 1711; 1day, which gave occasion to several to renew theii S.reproaches.Mr M'Naught, one of the curates, made him a. visit in his canonical habit, which Mr Renwick did itsnot like. The curate, among other things, asked shis opinion concerning the toleration, and those thajsjaccepted it. Mr R< nwick declared that he was a-1gainst the toleration; but as for them that embraced cit, he judged them to be godly men. The curatep.;leaving him, commended him for one of great gra¬vity and ingenuity, etc. Dalrymple, the King’s :Advocate, came also to visit him, and declared that lb21e was sorry for his death, and that it should fall outi his short time. Several Popish priests and gen-lemen of the guard, with some of the toleratedumisters, were premitted to converse with him. Ariest, at leaving him, was over-heard saying, heas a most obstinate heretic; for he had used sucheedom with him, that it became a proverb in theilbooth at the time, “ Begone, as Mr Renwick said) the priests."Several petitions were written from several hands,f the most favourable strain that could be invented,nd sent him to subscribe, but all in vain ; yea, itas offered to him, if he would but let a drop ofrk fall on a bit of paper, it would satisfy, but herould not. In the mean time, he was kept so closelat he could get nothing wrote. His begun testi-rony which he was writing was taken from him,nd pen and ink removed. However, he got a shortaper wrote the night before, which is to be founda the Cloud of Witnesses, as his list speech andestimony.On Tuesday, the 14th, he was brought beforehe council on account of The informulory vindi-alion ; but what passed there cannot be learned,arther than their signifying how much kindnesshey had shewn him, in that they had reprievediim without his application, a thing never done be-ore. He answered with extraordinary cheerful-icss, rejoicing that he was counted worthy to sufferhame tor the name of his Master. A friend askinglim how he was ? he said, “Very well;” and herould be better within three days. He told hisnother. That the last execution he was witness to,vas Robert Gray’s; and that he had a strong im-iression in his mind that he should be the next,rle often said. He saw need for his suffering at thisime ; and that he was persuaded his death wouldlo more good than his life for many years couldlave done. Being asked. What he thought GodT'-J2would do with tho remnant behind him ? He aswered, “ It would be well with them ; for Gtwould not forsake nor cast off his inheritance.” ;His mother and s.sters, having obtained leave to see hiiafter some, refreshment, in returning thanks, he said, “ O I,oftlion hast brought me within two hours ot eternity, and thisno matter of terror to me, more than if [ were to tie downa bed of roses j nay, through grade to thy praise, l may sn>n. ver had the fear of death since I came to this prison ; hfrom the |dare where I was taken, I could have gone very cotpo-edly to the scaffold. O ! how can I contain this, to he witin two hours of the crown of glory! ” He exhorted them muto prepare for death ; “ for it is (said he) the king of terro.tliouorh not to me now, as it was sometimes in mv hidings, hnow let ns be glad and rejoice, for the marriage of the Lamhcome, and his wife hath made herself ready. Would everhave thought that the fear of suffering ami of death could "so taken tram me ? But what shall l say to It ? tt is the dot)of the Lord and marvellous in our eyes, f have many tinicounted the cost of following Christ, but never thought1would he so easy; and now who knows the honour and hap(ness c f that? He thnl confesselA me before men, him will l coifess/ic fore my Father.” He said many times, *' Now I am nethe end ot time, t desire to bless the Lord, it is an inexpressiltsweet nnd satisfying peace to me, that be hath kept me fracompirt"g with enemies in the least.” Perceiving Ids mothweep, he exhorted her to remember, that they who loved aithing better than Christ were not worthy of him, “ If ye lotme, rejoice that l am going to my Father, to obtain the enjojment of what eye hath trot seen, nor ear heard, nor heart cojceived.” Then he went to prayer; wherein he ran out nunia praise, and pleaded much in behall of the suffering renmanthat the Lord would raise up witnesses that migiit transmit t!testimony to succeeding generations, and that he would »ileave Scotland, asserting, with great confidence of hope, thhe was strengthened in the hope of it, that the Lord would Igracious to Scotland.At length, heating the drums heat for the guard, he fell in*a transport, saying, " Yonder the welcome warning to my mariage ; the bridegroom is coming; lam ready, I am ready<Then taking his leave of his mother and sisters, he entreat)them not to be discouraged ; for, ere all were done, they shousee matter of praise in that day’s work. He was taken to tilow Couuc.il-house, as was usual; where after his sentence w.read, they desired him there to speak what ho bad to say Hsaid. “ 1 have nothing,to say to you, but that which is writtcin der. xxvi. 11. !,>. stsfer me, behold / am in your hand,” <fc<He .wr-* told 'Init.(he drums would heat at the scaffold all tttime, and therefore they desiredihim to pray Utere ; but he v«fused, and, declared, ho would not bo limited In what ho won:say, and that he had premeditated nothing, but would spedwhat was given him. They offer is! him any minister to be will»i.:n, but he ansVrered, •‘H I would have had any of them ftij’counsellors or conil'orlers, i should not have been here thisny. I require none with me but this one man,” (meaning therivnd Unit wns wailing upon him.)” Me went from thence to the sealf. Id with groat cheertulness,intone in a transport of triumphant joy, and had the greatestrtiwM of spectators that has perhaps been seen atany execution,. ut little was tieard, an account of Ihe beating of the drums althit time without intermission, from his lirst ascending the seat-nhi until he was cast over. Yet from the friend* and otherserinitted to attend him, there were some of his last wordsollected.i ’ Then he sang Psalm ciii. read Rev. xix.; then prayed, com-nending his soul to trod through the Redeemer, and his causeo be vindicated in his own-time ; and appealed to the Lord, itIlls was not the most joyful day In* ever saw in the world, a dayhat he had much longed for. He insisted much in blessing tiie<orti in honouring him with the crown of martyrdom, an hon-ur which the angels were not privileged with, being incapabled laying down tiieir lives for their princely .Master. He com-dained of being distorted in worshipping lied, but, said he,* I shall soon be above these clouds; then shall 1 enjoy thee,mi glorify thee, without interrupt ion, or intermission, for ever”3i';i\ er being ended, he spoke to the people much to,the purpose>f his written testimony, whereof somewhat was remembered,o this effect:Spectators, I am come here this day to lay down my lifeforlittering to the truths ot t'hrist, for which 1 am neither atraidlor ashamed to suffer. Nay, 1 bless the Lord that ever hecoun tedne worthy, or enabled me to suffer any thing for him ; and Ilesire to praise bis grace that he hath not only kept me troqihe gross pollutions of the time, hut also from the manj ordi-mry pollutions of children ; and ior such as I have been stained.vitb, he hath washed and cleansed me from them in his ownuond. 1 am this day to lay down my life lor tiiese three things.I. For disowning the usurpation and tyianny of James Duke offork. 2. For preaching that it was unlaw ful to pay the cess■xpressly exacted for bearing down the gospel. 3. tor teat li¬ne, that it was lawful for people to carry arms for detendinghemselves in their meeting f r the persecuted gospel ordiuan-tes. I think a testimony for these is worth many lives ; and if. had ten thousand, I would think it little enough to lay themdl down lor the same.. “Dear friends, 1 die a Presbyterian Protestant; I own theivord of God as the rule of faith and manners ; I own the Con-ession of Faittr, Larger and Sboiter Catechisms, Sum of Sav¬ing Knowledge, Directory for Public and Family Worship,Jovenants National and Solemn League, Acts of General As¬semblies, and ail the faithful contending* thathave been ior the.'oven■lilted reformation. 1 leave, my testimony approving theimiching in the fields, and defending tile same by arms. Iidjuin my testimony to all these truths? I h it have been sealed by;doodshed, eitner on scaffold, field, or bdas, for the. cifus« ofOhri-fc I leave my testimony against Popery, Pid icy, Urusti-tnisin, drc., against all profanity. and every thing contrary toSound do. trine and the pov. ir of godliness ; particular!} againstJp#21all u«'ur|)ations ami encroachmenls made upon Christ’a rightJthe Prince of the kings of the earth, who alone must hear theglory of ruling in his own kingdom the church ; and in particunlur against tins ahsolule power usurped hy this usurper, that he-'!lungs to no mortal, hut is the incommunicable prerogative oilJehovah, and against his toleration Howiug from this absolute;;power.”Here he was ordered to have done He answered, I havenear done ; and then said, ” Ye that are tjie people ol God, donot weary to maintain the testimony of the day in your stationsand places, and, whatever ye do, make sure an i iterest inChrist; Jor there is a storm coming that shall try your founda¬tion. Scotland mast be rid of Scotland before the delivery?come ; and you that are strangers to God, break oil'your sins by]repentance, else I will be a sad witness against you in the dayol the Lord,”pr;Here the made him desist, and go up the ladder, where he!ayed, and said, “ Lord, i die in the (aith that thou s lit not leave)Scotland, but that thou wilt make the blood of thy witnesses!, L . .  o vthe seed of thy church, and return again and be glorious inland. And now. Lord, I am ready ; the bride, the Lamb’s wife,hath made herself ready.” The napkin being tied about hisllace, he saidjo his friend attending, “ Farewell, be diligent induty, make your peace with God through Christ. There is a]great trial coming. As to the remnant I leave I have committed!them to God. Tell them from me, not to weary nor be dis-fcourage*! in maintaining the testimony, and the Lord will pro-,vide you teachers and ministers, and when he comes, he will;make these despised truths glorious in the earth.” He winturned over, with these words in his mouth, “ Lord, into th,hands l commend my spirit, for thou hast redeemed me. Lord!God of truth.”Thus died the faithful, pious, and zealous Mr James Ilenwick,on tlie third day over the 2(ith year of his age; a young man*and a young minister, but a ripe Christian, and renownedmartyr of Christ, for whose sake he loved not his life unto thedeath, by whose blood, and the word of his testimony, he overcame, and thus got above alt snares and sorrow, and, to tinconviction of many that formerly reproached him, was as sig¬nally vindicated, as he was in his iiie shamefully reproachedwith all the aspersions, obloquies, and calumnies, that werfcast upon him, lor prosecuting that testimony for truth, wbiclnow lie sea.ed with his blood, in such a treasure of patiencemeekness, humility, constancy, courage, burning love, amiblazing zeal, as did very much confound enemies, convincineutrals, confirm halters, comfort friends, and astonish all.He was of stature somewhat low, of a fair complexion, andlike another young David, of a ruddy and beautiful countenance.The Viscount of Tarbet, one of the councillors, one day inicompany, when speaking of him, said, ” That he was one oilthe stillest maintainers af his principles that ever came beforethem.” He was the last that on a scaffold sealed bis testimonyfor religion, liberty, and the covenanted work of refornmtionin ScotlandFINIS;