THEScots Piper's S^ueries^O RJohn Falkirk sC A R RIC H E S.TO WHICH IS ADDED.tin Comical and Witty Jokes.When in Courtflrip with an old Fid¬dler’s Widow, who wanted all theteeth. With a; copy of a Love Let¬ter he fent to her, who was com¬monly called Flihging Betty:uta joon j. ipiT jj you atjire.To read at letfure bj ibv fre, ■'.TmUjkafe. the bairns and keep them itxngbing.And mind the. Oldl Goadvsife a4 bar dap.n.This Catechism deserves no GreedyIt's only for boys that will not readOn wiser books, them to instrudl!Let droll 'John their fancy cook.The Scots Piper’s Queries, &c.^ W behavi-v v our of ignorant perfons ?A. To fpeak of nothing but whatthey know, and to give their opinionof nothing but what they underftand,Q^ What time is a fcolding wife atthe beft ?A. When fhe is faft alleep.Q^ What time is a fcolding wifeat the worfl ?A. When fhe is that wicked as totear the hair out of her head, when fhecan't get at her neighbour’s, and thro’perfed fpite bites her tongue with herown teeth: my hearty wifh is, that allfuch wicked vipers may ever do fo.Q^ What is the effe&ual cure andinfallible remedy for a fcolding wife ?3A. The only cure is to get out of thehearing of her, but the infallible re¬medy is to nail her tongue to a grow¬ing tree, in the beginning of a coldwinter night, and fo let it {land tillfun-rifingnext morning {he’ll becomeone the peaceableft women that Qverlay by a man's fide.What time of the year is it thatthere are moft holes open ?A. In harvefl when there are moftftubbles.Q. At whattimeisthecowheaviefl?A. When the bull is on her back.Q. Who was the good man’s mucklecow’s calf’s mother.A. None but the muckle cow her-herfelf.What is the likefl thing to aman and a horfe,?A. A tailor on amarp’s back.What is the hardefl dinner thata tailor ever laid his teeth on ?.A. His own goofe, though never fowell boiled and roafted.Q. How many tods tails will it taketo reach to the moon ?'A. One, if it be long enough.4How many flicks gangs to thebigging of a craw’s neft ?A. None, for they are all carried.Q. How many whites will a wellmade pudding-prick need ?A. If it be well made it needs nomore.Who was the father of Zebe-dee’s children ?A. Who but himfelf.Q. Where did Mofes go when hewas full fifteen years old ?A. Into his fixteenth.Q. How near related is your aunt’sgood-brother to you ?A. No nearer than my own father.Q. How many hoiesjure there in ahen’s doup ? A, Two.Q. How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung andanother for the egg.Q. Who is the beft for catchingrogues ?A. None fb fit as a rogue himelf.Ch Where was the ufefuleft fair inScotland kept ? A. At Mulguy.Q. What fort ot commodities werethere ?0A. Nothing but ale and ill wickedwives,Ck How was it abolifhed ?A. Becaufe thofe that went to itonce would go to it no more.Ch For what reafon ?A. Becaufe there was no money tobe got for them, but fair barter, wife*for wife, and he who put away hiswife for one fault, got another withtwo as bad.Q^What was the reafon that in thofedays a mail could put away his wife forpiffing the bed and not for lh- —g it ?A Becaufe he could Ihute it awaywith his foot and lye down.What is the reason now a daysthat met*.court, call, marry, and re¬marry fo many wives, and keep butonly one in public at laft ?A. Becaufe private murriages are’ become as common as fmuggling, andcuckolding the kirk no more thoughtof than to ride a mile or two on hisneighbour’s mare ! men get will andwale of wives, the beft portion, andproperefl pprfon is preferred, the firftleft, the weak to the worft, and flic6whom he does not love, he iihufces a-way with his foot, and lies down withwhom he pleafes.CX How will you know the bairnsof our town by others in the kingdom ?A. By their ill breeding and badmannersWhat is their behaviour ?A. If you alk them a queftion incivility, if were but the road to thenext town, they will tell you to followyour nofe, and if go wrong curfe theguide.Q. Are young and old of them nobetter ?A, All the odds lies in the differ¬ence, for if you alk a child to whomhe belongs, or who is his father, hewill tell tou to kifs his father’s a—e.What kind of creatures arekindiieft when they meet ?A None can exceed the kindnefsof dogs when they meet in a market.Q. And what is colleys conduct there ?A. Fird: they kifs others mouthsand nofes, fmell about, and at laft ofall, they are fo kind as to kifs otherbelow the tail.What is the coldeft part of a dog?A. His nofe.Q. What is the coldeft part of a man?A. His knees.Q. What is the coldeft part of a wo¬man ? A. The back part of her body.Ck What’s the reafon that thefethree parts of men, women and dogsare coldeft ?A. Fabulous hiftorians write, thatthere was three little holes broke inNoah’s ark, and that the dog put hisnofe in one, and another the man puthis knee in it, a third and biggeft holebroke, and the woman fet her back-lide into it; and thefe parts being ex-pofed to the cold blaft, makes themalways cold ever ftnce.And what remedy does the man'take to warm his knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire,and when in bed draws his fhirt overthem.Ch What does the woman do towarm their cold parts ?A. The married women turn theirbackfide about to the goodman’s bel-ly; virgins, and thofe mad for mar-8 .i iage, ihe heat of their maideii-headskeeps them warm; old matrons andwhirl’d o’er maidens, widows, and wi¬dows bewitched, hold up their coldparts to the fire.Ch And what remedy does the poordog take for his cold nofe ?A. Staps it in below his tail, thehotteft bit in his bndy.CX What is the reafon that dogs areworle on chapmen, than on any otherft range people ?A. It'is faid the dogs have three ac-cufations againft the chapmen, hand¬ed down from father to fon, or fromone generation of dogs to another: thefirft is as old asyEfop, the great witof Babylon, the dog having a law-fuitagainft the cat, gained the plea, andcoming trudging home with the de¬creet below his tail, a wicked chap¬man throwing his elwand at him, helet it fall,, and fo loft his privileges.The fecond is, becaufe in old timesthe chapmen ufed to buy dogs and killthem for their fkins. The third is,when a chapman was quartered in afarmer’s houfe, that night the dog lofthis property, the licking of the pot.Q. What creature refembles rnofta drunken piper;A A cat when (he ftps milk ; flicalways lings, and fo does a piper whenhe drinks good ale,Ck What is the reafon a dog runstwice round about before he lies downA. Becauf$ he does not know thehead of his bed from the foot of it.CX What creature > refembles mofta long. lean,, ill-looking, greafy fac’dlady for pride ?A. None fo much as a cat, who iscontinually fpitting in. her lufe andrubbing her face, as many of fuchladies do their brown leather.CX Amonglt what fort of creatureswill you obferve moll of a natural law:A. The hare and the hind meet atone certain day in the year; the broadgoofe lays her firil egg on Faf ern’sEven, old ftile ; the crows begin tobuild tbeir nelts the firil of March, oldllile ; the fwahs obferve matrimony,and if the female die, the male daresnot take up with another, or the reftwill put him to,death • all the birds ingeneral join in pairs and keep fo ; butthe dove refembles the adulderer, forwhen the fhe one turns old, he paysher away and takes another; the fo-cufts obferve militaryorder and marchin bands j the frogs refemble pipersand preachers, for the young ride theold to death.CK Who are the merriefl; and hear-tieft people in the world ?A. The Tailors, for they’ll be iihg-ing and curfing one another, whenthe waves, their graves, are going o-ver their heads.Cf Which are the diforderlieft crea¬tures in battle ?A. Cows and dogs, for they all fallupon them that are neathmoffc.Q. Who are the vaineft fort of peo¬ple in the world ?A. A barber, a tailor, a young fol-dier and poor dominieWhat is the great caufe of thebarber’s vanity ?A. His being admitted to trim no¬blemens chafts, thyke their fculls, takekings by the nofe, and hold a razor toIIto his very throat, which no fubjeftelfe dare do.Q. What is the great caufe of thetailor’s pride ?A. His making of peoples newclothes, of which every perfon, youngand old, are proud of, then who canwalk vainer than a tailor carryinghome a gentleman’s clothes.What is the caufe of a youngfoldier’s pride ?A. When be lifts, he is free from hismother’s corredtion, and the hard u-fage of a bad mafter, has liberty tocurfe, fwear, whore, and every otherthing, until convinc’d by four halbertsand the drummer’s whip, that he hasnow got a military and civil law abovehis head, and perhaps worfe maftersthan ever.Q. What is the caufe of the poordominie’s pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the youngand ignorant, he fuppofes no manknows what he knows, and the boystail him mafter, therefore he thinkshimfelf a' great man.Q. What fort of a fong is it is that. ang Xyj'thout a tongue, and its notetare underftood by people of all nationsA. It is a fart, which‘eyery bodyknows to be but wind.Q. What is the reafpn that youngpeople are vain, giddy-headed and ai¬ry, and not fo humble as in formertimes ?A. Becaufe they are brought up andeducated after a more haughty drain,by reading fables, plays and. roman¬ces, gofpel books, fuch as the pfalmbook, proverbs and catechifms arelike old almanacks: Nothing is nowin vogue, but fiddle, flute, fpry andEabylonilh tunes,; our plain Englilhfpeech corrupted with beauilh cants,don’t, won’t, nen, and ken, a jargonworth than the Yorkfhire dialect.Why is fwearing become ocommon amongft the Scots people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teacherscome from the fouth among its, wherefwearing is practifed in its true gram¬matical perfedtion, hot oaths, newfiruck off, with as bright a luftre as a.new quarter guinea.Q How will you know the basesotiuai^ii’s mare at the back of adyke, amongft the bones o£ an hun¬dred dead horfe ?A. Becaufe they are made of wood.Ch Which are the two thing;? notto be fpared, and not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat and a hired,horfe.7be end cf jobn Falkirk's Carricbes.AN old gentleman and his twofonsbeing in a company, his eldehion fitting next to him, fpoke a wordwhich highly difpleafed his father, forwhich his father gave him a heartyblow on the fide of the head ; a well,laid he, I will not lift my hand to.firike my parent, but he gives his o-ther brother., that fat by him, a blow•on the ear, faying, give that about byway .of. a drink till it comes to my fa¬ther again.A failor travelling between Edin¬burgh and Linlithgow, which is 12long computed inUes ; and as he wasfetting out in the morning EtbQUt eighto’olock, hefiiw.a vain- like young fpark.I4go running pafl him, which he neverminded, but kept jogging on at hisown leilure : and as he was going intoLinlithgow about twelve o’clock, upcomes the young fpark, and aiked thelailor what o’clock it was, Why, faysthe failor, I fee you have a watch andI have none, what is it ? Out he pullshis watch, ho! faid he, it’s diredtlytwelve, and what do you think, it washalf an hour after ten or I came outof Edinburgh, I have walked it in anhour and a half; it is pretty well tript,fays the failor, but pray hr, what manof bufinefs are you ? O! faid he, I ama watch maker. I was thinking fo,faid the failor, for you have made thewatch anfwer your feet, for they can¬not anfwer a right watch, and I fup-pofe your tongue cannot keep timewith either of them ; do you remem-ber where you pailed me this morn¬ing about eight o’clock ? O yes, faidhe, and off he went.A certain old reverend prieft beingone night at fupper in a gentleman’shoufe, and for one article having eggs,the ferver of the table laid a cloth onand feeing the white cloth, thought itwas his own fhirt tail, and verly flylyftaps it in to his breeches, bit and bit,which the landlady and the maid ob-ferved, but was alhamed to tell him ;fo home he went with the fervit in hisbreeches, and knew nothing of it tillgoing to bed, when it fell from him «his wife enquired how he came by it,he could not tell, but was furpnfedhow he came to have more bulk in hisbreeches than formerly, but obfervingthe name they fent it back again, theprieft pleaded to be excufed, ownedhimfelfonly a thief in ignorance.As two maids were coming frommilking their cows, one of them ftep-ping over a flile, fell and fpilt thewhole paleful of milk from her head.O, faid (he what will I do, what willI do ? O, faid the other maid let it go,who can help it now, you can’t takeit up again, it’s not your maidenead.My maidenhead, faid Hie, if it weremy maiden head, I would think no*16auing (if it,' many a time I kave loftmy maidenhead with great pleafure,and it ay came back again to itsain place, but Til never gather upmy milk.A drover who frequented a publicinn in the north of England, as hepalled and repalled, agreed with thefervant maid of the houfe for a touchof-lo ve ; for which he gave her a fixand thirty {hilling piece : On the nextmorning he mounted his horfe, with¬out afldng abill or what was to paybut fir, laid the landlord, you forgot'to pay your reckoning: Well minded,fir, I forgot my change ; the maid wascalled in all ha lie ; yes, faid (he I g'otit, but it was not for that, throws itdown and olT Ihe goes : her miftreisgave her thq challenge, Ihe told her itwas fo, but fie Ihpuld be up withhim ' Twelvd months after, he com¬ing paft with his drove, puts up at thefame irm,-as Tormerly : The girl thengoes to a-neighbour woman, who had ayoung child about three months old,lays it‘on' the table, laying, fir, there’sthe change of your fix and thirty andaway flie comes : Jiie child cries, andthe bell’s rung, the landlord was readyenough to anfwer. O fir, faid the dro¬ver, call her back, for this will ruinmy family, and crack my credit; butfir, faid the girl, you thought nothingto ruin my character and crack, mymaidenhead. Peace, peace, faid he,my dear, here’s one hundred and fif-t y pounds, and take away the childand trouble me no more. Well, faidfile, I will take it, and you’ll makemore of buying cpWs than maiden¬heads ; fo away ilie came with themoney and returned the borrowedchild to its own mother.Three merry companions havingmet on a Saturday night at an ale-houfe, (a hatter, a Ihoe-maker, and atailor) where they drank he irtily allthat night, and to morrow until mid¬day : and their beats were who hadthe lovingeft wife. So they agreedfor a trial of their good nature, thatevery man fhoulddo whatever his wifebid him do as foon as ever he wenthome; who did{not as {he ordered himwas to pay all the reckoning, whichi3came to feven and fixpence ; or if allof them did as their wives bid them,then they were to pay all alike. Soon this agreement they all came away,firft to the hatter’s houfe, and in hegoes like a mad man, dancing andjumping round the floor, his wife wastaking off the pot and fetting it on thefloor, he ftill dancing about, ding o-ver the pot with thy madnefs j fo hegives it a kick and over it went, andthat faved him, as he had done whathis wife bade him do. Then awaythey go to the tailor’s houfe, in he goesdancing likewife, but his wife fell afcolding him : O, fays he, give me akifs? kifs my arfe you drunken rogusffaid flie, then ter her flies and lays heron the bed up, with her petticoats andkiffes her arfe before them all, andthat faved him. Then away they wentto the (hoe-maker’s, and in he goesvery merry, and dancing about as hefaw the other two do, laying come mydear heart, and give me a kifs l Gohang yourfelf you drunken dog, faidIhe, fo he mull either go and hanghimfeif diredVly, or pay the reckoning.19An honefl Highlandman not longfince, not much acquainted with law,fell out with one ot his neighbours,and to the law they went; he employ¬ed one advocate, and his oppofite an-nother, and as they were debating itin court before the judges, the high¬landman being there prefent, a friendon his fide afked him how he thoughtit would go, or who would gain theday, indeed fays the highlandman hislaw man fpeaks well, and my lawmanfpeaks well, I think we’ll both wm,and the judges will lofe, for they fpeakbut a word now and then.A young woman by the old acci¬dent having got herfelf with child, wascalled to the fefiion for fo doing, andafter one elder another examining herhow (he got it, and where Ihe got it,and what tempted her to get it; andno doubt the deel wad get her for thegetting it: and laft of all the minifterfell a enquiring how (he got it, whichrun the poor lafs out of all patienceabout the getting, fays the prieft, tellme plainly where it was gotten ? I tellyou, faid (lie it was gotten in the byre,20at a cow’s; flake, and what other placewould you want to ken about ? but laidhe, did he not tye you to the cow’sflake ? No, faid Ihe, I did not needany tying ; and how far was betweenthe byre and the houfe ? Juft but andben, up and down twa flaps of a ftaneflair : Then fays the; pried: why didyOu.pqt cry to the folks in the houfe?indeed fir, fays {he, I could not getcried for the laughing at itA foldier being on a forlough fromthe north of Scotland, having got nobreahfaftj. fell very hungry by the wayand no alehoufe being near, came into a farmer’s houfe and wilhed themto fell him fonie bread, or any kind ofvictuals ; to whch the furly goodwifereplied, Ihe never fold any bread, andwas not going to begin with him, hehad but three miles and a bittock toan alehoufe, and he might walk on,as die did fair enough when ftie giedbits of bread for naetbing to beggars,tho’ /he gied nune to idle foldiers, hehad naething to do there awa\ Hout,faid the goodman-, gie’m-a ladlefu’ o’out kail, he’s been fomebody’s bairn21before he was a foldier. What! faidIhe, there’s not a drop in the pot, theyare a’ in the plate before you ; thengie’m a fpoon and let him fup wi’ us.The foldier gets a fpoon, and think¬ing he could fup all he frw, the firlf fuphe took, he fpouted back again in tothe plate, and dries out, O my foremouth, the.hide’s yet all oiTfince I hadthe clap; every one throwing down hisfpoon, the foldier got all to fup him-felf; the wife flood curling and fcold-ing all the time, and when he wai,doneburnt both plate and fpoon to preventthe dap. So the foldier came off witha full belly, leaving the wife drefTmgthe goodman’s rigging with a fourfooted flool for bidding him fup.A churlifh man and a viftuops wife,one rime fell out, becaufe.the wife hadgiven fcmething to the poor, what, faidhe miftefs, I’ll let you know there' isnothing about this houfe but what ismine: Well, well, goodmah, then youwill let me have nothing, , take it alland give me peace; fo away they wentto bed, and the good wife turned herbdckiide toward the goodman, and ashe was falling afleep, ftie draws up herfmoke and lets fly in the goodman'sfliirt tail, which awakened him in asgreat fright as he had been fliot; ay,ay, woman, what are ye about ? whatam I about faid flie: dear woman youare filling the bed Not I goodman, forwhen my arfe was my own I took careof it, and take ye care of it now, it isyours. O rife woman and clean thebed, and keep your arfe and a* the li-berty ye had before, and more, if yewant it; feigh, what’s this, I’m a’ dirt.A fhips crew being one time in greatdiflrefs at fea, by reafon of a violentflorm and being all fallen down to pr -yer, expe&ing every moment to go tothe bottom : there happened to be anold gentleman, a paflenger on boardwith them, who had a great big rednofe, with drinking ale and whifky ;and being all at their lafl prayers asthey thought, a little boy burfl: out in¬to a loud laughter; O thou thought-lefs rogue,faid the captain, what makesthe laugh, feeing us all on the point ofperifhing ? Why faid the boy, I can¬not but laugh for to think what finefport it will be when we are all drown¬ing, to fee how that man’s red nofewill make the wate;r biz when it. comesabout it; at which words they all fella laughing and cheriihed the crew, fothat they made another attempt toweather out, and got all fafe alhore atlaft,John Falkirk's Love Letter to the Fid¬dler's WidowMy lovely Bet, the beauty of oldage, thy hoary head, and louchingfhoulders incline to mortality; yet Iwill compare thee to the Eagle thathas renewed her youth, or leek witha white head and a green tail, thiscomes to thee with my kind compli¬ments for kiffes of thy lips and thekindnefs I had for thy late bed fellow,Fiddler Pate, my brother penfloner ;ah! how we drank others healths withthebroe of thebucketewes,webroughtfrom boughts of the German Boors;but it’s popfenfe to praife the dead,when in the daft, yet a better Vialernever freeded on a lilken cord, orkittled a cat’s trypes wi’his finger-ends.his elbows were fupple as an eel, andhis fingers dabbed at the jigging endlike a hungry hen picking barley : Ifeldom or ever faw him drunk, andkeep him from whifky,orwhifky fromhim; except that night he try fled thefree*flone pair of breeches from Jo-leph the mafon : and now, my dearBeyfTy, he’s got them, he’s got them,for a free-flahe covers his body, holdshim down, and will do; and now, nowmy dainty thing, match for matrimo¬ny, come tak me now or tell me now.I’m in danger. I’ll wait nae langer; Ifay be clever, either now or never, it7sa rapture of love which does me move,I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if fhefhould be blind and cripple ; I’ll fellmy wind fof her meat and fun, thelike ne’er gaed down her thrapple ;fo now Belly I love you, my love liesupon yph ; and if you love me not a-gain, fome ill chance come upon you;as I am flyting free, I am both inIbve and banter, of may your rumplerust1 for me ; I have fw’orn it by fnychanter.F I N'I S. V •