THEJACK SHEPPARD,.Wn.UAji Inglis, Printer & Stationer,5 MEtviiTE Fi.acf akd 7 Brunswick Pf ACK.  he—THE LIFE AND EXPLOITS OFJACK SHEPPARD,THE HIGHWAYMAN.John Sheppard was born in the parishof Stepney, in the early part of the year1702. His father was a journeyman car¬penter, but died whilst the child was veryyoung, in consequence of which the infantwas sent to the workhouse, where he re¬mained till he was old enough to be appren¬ticed to a Mr. vVood, a builder in WychStreet, Drury Lane. Being an ingenioushand he soon became master of his business,and gave such satisfaction that he hadthe character of a very sober, orderlyyouth : but alas ! before he had completedsix years of his time he commenced a fatalacquaintance with one Elizabeth Lyon,otherwise called Edgworth Bess, the re¬puted wife of a soldier, who lived a very-dissipated life. Our hero became enam¬oured of her, and they cohabited togethera- man and wife.*tu e I urlA anlJ an i..Thij was the poiniHe^Qcment^fd his ruip,it)r tif? Tiofs’ grlw w'fear}'1 6f the f(5ke ofsei-v-itude, and began to dispute with hismaster, indeed it was riot Ion? afterwardsthat Mr Wood having reason to suspecti bat Sheppard had robbed a neighbour,thought it was high time to look after him¬self, and when his men came home at nighthe barred him out; hut Jack -mad^ amere jest of bolts and locks, and whenflfr Wood and his wife .supposed him to beyTthe streets, they found him next morn-i. g ’comfortable in bed.Edgeworth Bess having stolen a riptifrom a gentleman was sent to St Giles w.ateh-. house. On hearing of this Sheppard ini-mediately went to her, and after a shortconversation with the beadle and his wife,be fell upon the poor old ,couple, took thekeys from them, and let- the woman outin spite of the alarm that had been.rais'ejAbout July, 17’23, he was sent by jiismaster to perform some repairs at the houseof Mr, Braines, a piece-broker in WhiteHorse Yard, from whom be stole a roll offustian, containing twenty-four yards, whichwas afterwards found in his trunk.Having deserted his master’s, service, hetook shelter in the house of Mr Charles,in May Fair, and his landlord having oc¬casion for some repairs in his house, engageda Mr Pont oil, a carpenter, and Jack Shep¬pard to do the tvork, hut before the job wascompleted, the latter took an opportunityto rob the pChple of plate and jewellery toa-eonsiderable amount,Sheppard had a brother named Thomas,a carpenter by trade h<t a notorious thiefby practice. This Thomas being committedto'Newgate for house-breaking, impenehedhis brother and Edgeworth Bess as beingconcerned with him in the fact. Every en¬deavour was then used to get them appre-hendedrbut to no purpAse. till tire followingaccidenf:—Jack one day met his old ac-quaintahee, James ■fsykesi, who wanted himto go to a public-house, near Seven Dials,to play at skittles. Shejrpard complied,6and Sykes secretly sent tor a constable, whohaving taken the robber into custody, con¬veyed him before a magistrate, by whomhe was remanded to St. Giles’s watch-housetill the next morning for further examina¬tion. He was confined in the upper partof the place, being two stories from thesround, but before many hours were over,by the help of a razor, and the stretcher ofa chain, he broke through the roof, and ty-inor together a sheet and blanket, descendedinto the church-yard.On the evening of the 19th of May,Sheppard, with another robber named Ben¬son, were passing through Leicester Fiekls,where a gentleman stood accusing a womanwith an attempt to steal his watch. Shep¬pard’s companion got in among the crowd,and picked the gentleman’s pocket in earnestof the article in question. Benson escaped,but Sheppard was seized and conveyed toSt. Ann’s watch-house, where EdgeworthBess coming to see him was also arrested.They were carried before a magistrate, whocommitted them to the New Prison, prepar¬atory to sending them to Newgate. Shep¬pard and his female companion, now foundthemselves in a strong well-guarded cell,and loaded with irons of about 14 poundsweight, but being supplied with implementsby some of his friends, our hero set towork, and about two o’clock in the morn¬ing effected a breach in the wall. Sheppardthen fastened a sheet and blanket to the bars,and having filed off his fetters, he loweredthe female safely to the ground. This donehe descended himself, but they still hada wall of twenty-two feet high to scale be¬fore their liberty was perfected. Sheppardhowever, was not unprepared to surmountI this difficulty: he had his gimblets andpiercers, and in a short time a scalingladder was made, with which he mountedwith Bess, and in less than ten minutesthey onco more found themselves at liberty.But Jack was not warned by his troubles,for directly afterwards he returned to hislate master’s neighbourhood in Wych Street,where he concerted measures with one An¬thony Lamb,—an apprentice to M r Carter,j —a mathematical instrument maker, forrobbing Mr. Burton, a tailor, who lodgedin Carter’s house; Charles Grace, a cooper,joined them in the robbery, and on the- •>■>8Kith' of June, Lamb let his comrades intothe house, and they all went up to Mr Bur¬ton’s'room, armed with pistols, and enteredurdisturbed. Grace was posted at Burton’sbedside, with positive orders to shoot himin case he awoke, Sheppard being engagedin opening the boxes and trunks in themeantime. It happened luckily for MrBurton that he slept more soundly thanusual that night, and the robbers suc¬ceeded in carrying off property to the amountof between two and three hundred pounds.About this time Mr Kneebone, a woodendraper, near the New Church in the Strand,received a caution from the father of An¬thony Lamb, that his house was intendedto be broke open and robbed that very night.Mr Kneebone prepared for the event, orderedIds servants to sit up, and gave directionsto the watchmen to keep a sharp look out-Thus the robbers were frustrated for thepresent, but a few weeks afterwards they'tteceeded in entering at the back of thehouse, and carried off above fifty poundsWorth of property.Within a week from the last-mentioned9hurtrlarv, Sheppard, and some of his com¬panions, robbed a Mr Parti^er, a chau'd-'lerof Hampstead, near the Half-way-house.’—But Sheppard’s long course'of wickednesswas apparently now drawing t6 a cldse, forMr Kneebone had offered a reward, andJonathan Wild, the thief taker, was en¬trusted with the job of capturing the robbers.On the 22d of July, Edgeworth Bess wastaken in a brapdy shop, neat'. Temple, Bar,when being much terrified, she discoytn'edwhere Sheppard was. The next day hewas apprehended in Rosemary Lane, thoughnot without resistance, for he presented aloaded pistol at the officer’s breast, andattempted to shoot him, but fortunately theweapon missed fire. He. was committed toNewgate, and at the Old Bailey was triedqn the three following indictments:—1st, For breaking into the bopse of Wil¬liam Phillips, and stealing goods on the14th of February, but there not being suf-cient evidence he was acquitted.2d, For breaking open the house of MaryCook, and stealing divers goods, but theevidence being deficient, he was again ac¬quitted.3d, For breaking into the house of Wil¬liam Kneebone, and stealing 108 yards ofwoollen cloth.This latter fact being clearly proven, hewas found guilty, and sentence of deathwas accordingly pronounced.Sheppard was now sent to the condemn-ed cell, where he found nine other unhappywretches, in as dreadful circumstances ashimself. The King being at Windsor, themalefactors had a longer,respite than usual,and during that time, James, Hearman,Lumey, Davies, and Sheppard agreed uponan escape, concerted measures, and pro¬vided instruments to make it effectual.—On the day before that appointed for theexecution, Davies gave Shepperd the files,saws, &c. with which be contrived to re¬move his own fetters, and in the courseof the night he effected his escape, leavingthe rest to the fate that awaited them. Hethen went down to Northamptonshire, withone of his accomplices, but feeling restlessthere, returned within a few days after-11wards to London, where he committedseveral robberies without being discovered.The keepers of Newgate having beenblamed for his escape, contributed their ut¬most to get him once more in their power.After some trouble they learnt that he wasprowling about Finchley, to which placea number of officers were sent, who havipgcaptured their prisoner, took him back tothe condemned cell in Newgate, where hewas chained down to the floor, with doubleirons about his feet. But even in this con¬dition he was continually meditating hisescape, as was proved by the instrumentsthat were several times found upon him.—On one occasion a small file was discoveredin his bible, and on another two files, achisel and a hammer were hid in the rushesof his chair.i i ‘JtH ijdj J *'$:!> £15* V'• ' ■ - cIt was now thought proper by the keepersto remove him from the condemned cell, toa place called the castle, in the body of the,jail, and to chain him down to two largeiron staples in the floor. The concourseof people of the first fashion that cameto see him was exceedingly great, and he12v.-as always rfheefful and pleasant, turningahn-ost every thing that was said, to jestand banter.^fil'/rd 9tS377.9K "io gtsqaajl orfT-'t)it the 14th of October, the .Snsaipjjsbe"j6ari at the Old Bailey, aoh .lank ^wewthlat the keepers would; be busjlvin attending upon the epn^t,, The' next-(ftty abont- two in the afternoon,. one of thejheri Oarried the prisoner his dinhfif, exa^uin-cU his irons, aud'h4diiighll!sdcuiw,.lef;thiri}1.He had hardly been gone an hotu: beforeJack went to work.- 'Hie^first.thing h^.didwas tO‘get olf his- handcuffs, and th'eni wj^ba crooked hail which he found upon the ti.ooroyrePied the.great padlock.' that fastened hisilfaih to the staples, is Next . ho t^icted-asunder a small link of the-chaini h^Wix-this legs, and drawing up bis feefc-Jpcks dshigh as he could, he made them fast withhis garters, to prevent their clanking. Hethen attempted to get' iq) the chimney, 'buthis-progress was stopr by ao -iron b.ir ^tl'Mi-went across within side, and - having descen¬ded, he went to work on the' put-sidy>: ,?nd'with a pieceibf his broken chain pickedi:outthe mortar, arid removed a sipalb'&tope ortwo, by which means he got out the iron batl;a** hiefe -iiftfecwards proved of greiit service tohira. He.presently made so large a breachtthnti he got into' she lied’ Room over thecassle, whei’e. he'fouhd a great nail, winchwas anothen very'uspful instrument. FromChmeei he fountl; his way into the Chapel,a mb afters tHaCilntoirlthe .entry between theChapel- aidd the lo’^or' leads, where as.mighthad come oh, hewas forced,to work in thedark. However, in half an hour,,by thehelp of the great nail and the: iron bar, betbrcetl oft-1 this.'box 'irf. the. l©.ck,asnd:openedIhe door, and let him in ametb&r. yet moredifficult, f'orit was mot only locked but bar-mi and boiled. When be Hardened in vainto make this give wnyit lle wrencbel»TO^«HllfeC from the main post., and: the box a adstaples1 came off vvith itj There was yetanother door between him and the .lowerleads, but it being only, bolted within, haopened it easily, and mounting the top of it,got over the wail to the.upper leads.His next consideration was how to getdown,, and findingi the top pf the turner’shouse, adjoining Newgate, was tlje mostconvenient place tp light upon, he went backto the castle the same way he came, and14fetched a blanket which he used to lieupon. With the assistance of this, he drop¬ped down upon the turner’s house, and atthat moment the clock of St. Sepulchre’sstruck nine. Luckily the trap door hap¬pened to be open; he crept in, and wentsoftly down stairs, when he heard com¬pany talking in a room below. His ironsgiving a clink, a woman started and said,“ Lord, what noise is that ?” Somebodyanswered, “ the dog or cat.” ThereuponSheppard returned to the garret, and havingcontinued there for two hours, he ventureddown a second time, when he heard a gentle¬man take leave of the company and sawthe maid light him down stairs. As soonas the maid had come back and shut theroom door, he hastened down to the streetdoor, unlocked it, and made his escape about12 o’clock at night.A few days after his escape, Sheppardbroke open a shop in Monmouth Street,and stole some wearing apparel. On the29th of October, he broke into RobertRawlins, a pawnbroker in Drury Lane, fromwhence he took a sword, a suit of clothes,15a snuff-box, rings, watches, and goods toa considerable amount.And now Jack resolved to appear like agentleman among his old friends and ac¬quaintances. He strutted about in a finesuit of black, a light tie wig, and a ruflledshirt, with a silver hilled sword by his side,a diamond ring on his finger, with a goldwatch in his pocket, notwithstanding adiligent search being made after him. Onthe 31st of October he dined with twowomen named Cocks and Keys, at a pub¬lic-house in Newgate Street, where they werevery merry together. About four in theafternoon they took a coach and drawingup the windows passed through Newgate,which was then similar to Temple-bar, andthence to the Sheers ale-house in May-poleAlley, Clare Market, where in the eveninghe sent for his mother, and treated her withsome brandy. As she knew the danger hewas in, she advised him to take care of him¬self, and keep out of the way, but Jack hadbeen drinking pretty hard, and was toovaliant to fear any thing; he therfore lefthismother, and strolled about in the neigh¬bourhood till about 12 o’clock, when heI16wa* apprehended by means of an ale-houseboy, who had accidentally seen him. Jackwas then drunk, and being unable to makeany resistance/ was once moire conveyed*0- Nfewgaate.-oitft c ni Jiiodn boilinj-! oil .earnialniaxipOn the 10th of November; ho was car¬ried to the King’s Bench Bar at West¬minster, where the record of his convictionbeing read, and an affidavit made that hewa's the same John1 Sheppard mentionedin that record. Mr Justice Power a-warded sentence of death against him, anda. rule of court was made for his executionon the Monday following.The dayiCame, but Jack had still somehopes of eluding justice. Somebody hadfutnished him with a pen-knife; this he putin his pocket with the point upwards, andas he told one whom he thought he couldtrust, his design was to lean forward inthe cart, and cut asunder the cord thattied his hands together, and that when hecame to Little Turnstile, to throw himseltover among the crowd, and run throughthe narrow passage where the officers couldnot follow him on horseback, but must be17forced to dismount; and in the meantimedoubted not, by the mob’s, assistance, heshould make his escape. But this schemewas discovered in the press-yard just as hewas "oing into the cart, and the knife, uponwhich all depended was taken from him.At the place of execution, he behavedwith great decorum, and confessed thecrimes for which he was about to suffer.He w-as hanged at;.Tyburn, on Monday,November 10, 1724, in the 24th year of hisage. He died with great difficulty, andwas. much pftiad.' by the mol). When hehung about it cplarter of an hour, he was cutdown by a soldier} and delivered to his.friends,* who earried him to the BarleyMow, Long Acre, and he was buried the<sameevening in St. Martin’s Ghurcb-yard,18AN INDIAN DEVICE TOAVOID PUNISHMENT.A friend of ours, who has had ex *tensive dealings with the Indians ofMississippi, relates the followingcharacteristic anecdote, which hesays, is undoubtedly the truth. Achief, by the name of Glover, insome gush of passion, happened toslay another Indian. The invariablepenalty for killing, among theseprimitive beings is death, and thatpunishment is, by their custom, tobe inflicted by the nearest friends ofthe deceased. These had met to¬gether, with the prisoner in theircharge, to execute the last sentenceon poor Glover. He asktfd one fa¬vour of the judges, before he died,and, as generous enemies, he hopedthey would grant it, as it was thef -19Nlast he would ever ask of them ;—it was that he might be permitted totake one more glass of liquor, andsmoke one more pipe of tobacco.So small a request was readilygranted : they promised to postponethe execution, till he drank andsmoked again. Having got themsufficiently committed to this pro¬position, he gave them to under¬stand that he never intended tp doeither! Such is the sacredness ofan Indian promise, that subterfugehas thus saved Glover’s life: andthis occurrence took place ten years, ago.An Irishman, a short time since,bade an extraordinary price for analarum clock, and gave as a reason,that, as he loved to rise early, hehad nothing to do but to pull thestring, and he could wake himself20.an' ikfe^enoe.A servarit lad lived many yearswith a clergyman,’. and his mastertQok occasion to say^—“ John, youhave been a long.tini-e in my service •I dare say Vou will be a,ble to preacha sermon as well as I.”1 “ Oh, no,8ir,”;said John^ “butmany an in¬ference I hav.e dravyn from yours.”“ ^ell,” said the clergyman, “ Iwill give you a text out of Job, letriie hear what you infer from it.-1—‘ And the asses snuffed up'-the eastwind.’ ” “ /Veil,” replied John,“ the only inference I can draw, fromthis is, that it would be a long timebefore they would grow fat upon it.”•rfsTTi .iiBrndanl nA•■z'-o:'' iu, rimiibiomix:/ na obodLeigh flunt was asked by; a lady,at dessert, if he,would not ventureon an orange. “Madam, 1 shouldbe happy to' do so, but I ani afraidI should tumble off'.”•21M AT.R 1M ON LA L CON SOLA 110 N./A vouj^ig brother lad esp.onseff anold and ill-tempered wife' but ex¬tremely rich. He used . to say,-—Whenever I dind my temper giv¬ing way, I retire to myidloset, andconsole myself by reading her mar¬riage settlement’'ABSENCE OF MIND.- t f /- fid VI i f,C fff) I.. A man thinking..he was at home,a Jew evepings. ,since, lay down onthe ' corpipon. apd. put his bootsoutside the gate to;be blackened inthe rn.orning.fef-Another person, aftergetting home one rainy night, putbis umbrella jn hedh and; leaned upin the corner himself. pmClocks that have stopped, bymisrepresenting the time becomeparadoxes ; they, stand and lie sim¬ultaneously. jo; j •/ ' i22DIVISION OF TIME.“ Mnrphy,” said an employer theother morning to one of his work¬men, “ you came late this morning ;the other men were an hour beforeyou.”—“ Sure and I’ll be even wit’em to-night thin.”—“ How, Mur¬phy ?”—Why, fait. I’ll quit an hourbefore ’em all sure!”Logan on a market-day, in Kil¬marnock, went into a tavern with afriend, and ordered some whisky.—The waiter, when he set down themeasure, asked if they wished tohave water along with the spirits ?“ Na,” said the laird, “ had ye nobetter try to tak’ out the water that’sin’t already.”An oyster was opened at PointComfort lately, which was so largethat it took three men to swallowIT WHOLE.23A TAVERN INCIDENT./iA traveller domiciling at an Amer¬ican hotel, exclaimed one morningto the waiter, “ What are you about,you black rascal, you have rousedme twice from my sleep by tellingme breakfast is ready, and now youare attempting to strip off the bed¬clothes : what do you mean ?”—“ Why,” replied Pompey, “ 1 f youisn’t goin’ to git up, I must hab desheet any how, ’cause dey’r waitin’for de table clof.”At a banquet, when solving enig¬mas was one of the diversions, Alex¬ander said to one of his courtiers,“ What is that which did not comelast year, and will not come nextyear ?” A distressed officer startingup, said, “ It certainly must be ourarrears of pay.” The king was sodiverted that he commanded himto be paid up, and also increased hissalary.TURKISH proverbs:A small stone often makes a ■gr-eatnoise.—A foolish friend is at timesat greater annoyance than a wise eiie*rny.—You’ll not sweeten your moutliby “ saying honeyIf a manwould live in. peace- lie should beblind, dealp and dnmbi j>o'goo»land throw it into the sea;'it thefish knttw it no»f the Lord will.—-If thy foe be as small as a gnat,fancy him as large- as a elephant.—They who know most are the oftenestcheated.