THE ^HISTORYO FJACK and the GIANTS,la nil k’s PARTS.fit/F 4 L FC I R x.Pri«tcd in the Year,MjDCCjljcxfcviI./v *■ y************ •**»^******* * * ********** *********The Hiftory of Jack and the Giants.Of his birth a*d Parentage, and what pa ftbetween him and the Country F>car, Sec.IN the reign of King Arthur, near the Lands-end of England, namely the country of Corn-W?H there lived a wealthy Farmer, who had oneonly Son, commonly known by the, name of Jackthe Giant Killer. He was brifk and of a readywit; foN that whatever he could not perform byllrength he completed by ingenious wit and policy :Never was any perfon heard of that could wortthim; Nay the very learned many times he b.-'filedby his cunning (harp and ready inventions.For indance when he was no more than levenvears of ;we his Father, the Farmer, |enr hrminto the field to loch after his Oxen, which werethe,, feeding in a plca&nt w«nr.. A conntry V,c«by rhance corning acrofs the field, call d to JaCk,im\ afe; d him feveral qndbons; ui particular.How nia^ty commandments there were. J3C7 hrn, there were nine. The paufon reply’d¥;,tre he tin! N.y (qen.h Jack.) MaBer par-j;)r you are "out of that, it is true there was ten,but’v'ou broke one of them with your own maidMlrrerv- The parfi.n reply’d thou art an archyu.f fi^-k Well Mader parfqn quoth Jac^, >oZZ atd mc ,.nt queftton and l anf*^it, 1 bdlcech yod 1« »>= slk Vou „,,dcJdc thele One,? the pane, teply t. God rnadec ltd You are out again ^quoth Jack) **r,, C,di ,h.,„ hull!, hut tuy F„her and h,s. l,r made Oxen of them. 1 heie wereS" wi«y °f >di- T1,c pa'ron siitnfelf fool’d, truged away leaving Jack in a fit ofaughter. . ",iHow a Giunt inhabited the Mount n/Cornwall,fpoiled the Country thereabouts. See.IN thofe days ttie mount of Cornwall was keptby a Huge and Monftrous Giant, of 27 feetin height, and about three yards in compafs, of afierce and grim countenance, to the Terror ofall the neighbouring Towns and Villages. Hishabitation was in a cave, in the midft of aMount, neither would he fuft’er any leaving crea¬ture to inhabit near him; His feeding was uponother mens cattle, which often became his prey:for whenfoever he had occafion for food, he wouldwade over to the main Land, where he would furnithhimfelf with whatever he could find, For the peo¬ple at his approach w<3uld forfake their habi¬tations; then w ould feize upon their cows and oxen,of which he would make nothing to carry overon his back half a dozen at a time: and as for thefheep and hogs, he would tye them round his waifllike a bunch of baudeliers. This he for many yearshad praftifed in Cornwall, which was much imno-verifhed by him.But one day Jack coining to the Town-HaII,when the Magifirates were fitting in conliernationabout the Giant; he afked them what reward theywould give to-any perlon that would deftroy him?i hey 3111 wered.' He (hall have all the creature inirecompence. Quoth Jack, then I myfelf will un-Oertake the work-Hozu Jack /tew this Giant, and got the na. ?r0/ Jack the Giant Kilter.TA.ck having undertaken this talk, he furnfiBedhimlelf with a hoi n, a fhovel, and pick-ax,and over to the Mount he goes, in ’the beginning/V “ /of a dark winter eve-dng, where he fell to workand before morning had digged a 'pit two andtwenty foot deep, and almolt as broad, and co¬ver’d the fame over with long flicks and draws:then ftrowing a little of the mould upon it, fo ftappeared like the plain ground.( ^ h'® done, Jack places himfcif on the con-traiy fide of the pit, jufl about the dawning ofVtieday, when putting fiis horn ta his mouth, he then. blew, Tan Twivie, Tan Twivie. Which unex¬pected node rouz’d the Giant, who came roaring■ towards Jack, crying, thou incorigible villain ! areyou come here to dilturb my reft? You /hail dear¬ly pay for it: Satisfa&ion I will have, and it/hall be this; I will take thee wholely and broilyou for my breakfaff. Which word were nofooner out of his mouth, but he tumbled head¬long into the deep pit, whofe heavy fall made thevery foundation of the mount to fhake.Oh ! Giant where are you- now? Faith you aregotten into Lob’s pond, where I \cill plagueyou for your threatning words. What do youthink now of broiling me for your breakfafl?Will no other diet lerve you but poor Jack?Thus having tantaliz’d the Giant for a while hegave him a inert weighty kucck upon the crownof his head, with his pick-sx, that he immedi¬ately tumbled down and giving a mert dreadfulgroan and died. This done. Jack threw theearth in upon him, and (o buried him; then,going and iearchiug the cave, hr. found a greatquamtiiy of treafnre.Now when the Magirtratcs, who employedhim, hesfd the work was over, they lent for’ n, dcchrifrg, that he ihould henceforth be call’d,j-ck the Giant Killer. A.id in honour thereof,they prefeuted him with a bword, together with afine rich embroider’d Belt, on which theie wordswere w rought in letters of gold.Here’s the right vidia^t Cornifh Min,Who Hew the Giant Cormtiion.7*Hoiv Jack was taken by a Giant while ajleepyarid how he got his liberty again.HE News of Jack’s victory wis loon fpre.dover ail the wellern parts; fo that ano¬ther huge Giant Named Blunderboar, hearingof tr, vow’d to. be revenged on Jack, if evtr itwas^n his fortune to light upon him. This Giantkept an tnchanred Cadie, fituatcd in the midflafter walking near the borders of the laid wood,on his journey towards Wales, he grew veryweary and therefore fat h mfelf down by the fideof a pieafant fountain, where a deep fkep fud-denly feiz’d on him; at which time the Giantcoming there for w^cr, found him, and by th«Lines written upon his belt, knew him to beJack that kill’d his brother Giant, and there¬fore without making any .words, he throwshim upon his fhouldtr, for to carry him to illsinchanted calile.Now as they palled thiough a thicket theruuiing oi the, boughs awak’d poor Jack, whoboding himfell llrangely furpriftd, yet it wasru: the beginning ot his terrors; for le beheldthe ground all cover’d with bones and Iculls ofdead men. The Giant telling JJCk that hisoones. would enlarge the nnmh^r rKi» r-...of a lonefome wood : Now Jack about four monthsV —^-7 -|“ bat his heart would make him a dainty bit.”!This fa id, he locks up poor Jack in an upper)* room leaving him there, while he went to fetch!another Giant, living in the fame wood, that heslight be partaker in the the pleafure which theywould have in the deftrufti'n of poor Jack.^ Now, while he was gone, dreadful Ihrieks andcries affrighted Jack, efpecially a voice which con¬tinually cried.Da what you can to get away,Ur yon hi become the Giant’s prey;He’s gone to fetch his brother, whoWill kill, and likewife torter you.This dreadful noife fo afffightrd poor Jack,that he was ready to run diftrafted, then feeingfrom a window afar off, the two Giants coiningtogether; now (quoth Jack to himfelf,} my deathor de'iverance is at hand.There wjs ftrong cords in the room by him,of which he takes two, at the end of which hemade a noofe; and while the Giant was unlock¬ing the iron gate, he threw the ropes over eachof their heads, and then drawing the other endacrofs the beam, where he pulled with all hismain flrength untill he had throatled them;and then faftening the rope to the beam, turn’dtowards the window, where he beheld tV,e twoGiants to he black in in their faces; Then fbdingdown by the rope he came clofe to their heads,where the helplef* Giarits could not defend them,fel -es, and' <* awing out his fword, flew themboth and delivered himfelf from their intendedcruelty: He then taking the bunch cT keys, heunlock’d the room*, where upon a funcl fearch,he found three fair Ladie’s ty’d by the hair atheir heads, almoit ftarved to death, who toid—  { 1 )Tsck That tbeir hufbands was flain byJhe Gianr,and ’that they were kept many days withoutfnod: in nrdtr to force them to ieed upon the! flefli of their 'hufbar ds; which they could not,j if they were llarved to death.Sweet Ladies, (quoth Jick) I have dehrcyed/this Mon Her, and his brutiJh brother, by winchI have obtained your liberties. I his laid, he.prefented them with the keys of the callle, and iyproceeded on his journey into Wales.How Jack travelled into Flint/hire, and whathappened.JACK having but very little money, thoughtit prudent to make the bed of hrs way bytravelling as fad as he could, but lofu g hss toadwas benighted and tould not get a place of en¬tertainment ; untill he came to a valley, placedbetween two hills where hood a large koul'e ina loncfume place, and by reafon if his prelentcondition, he took courage to knock at thegate; and to his ftirprize there came forth amontlrous Giant, having t^o head*! yet he d:dnot feem fo fiery as the others bad* bien, fir hewas a Welih Giant, and v.diat he did was byprivate and f. cret mal’Ce under the Life (hewof fiiendlhip; fir Jack telling his condition hebid him welcome mewing him a rt o n with abed in it, whereupon he might take* his night’sicpofe: Therefore J ck undrtflVs himfelf, andas the Giant was walking away to another ap-p»nm nt, Jack heard him mutter thcle wordsto himftlf.Tho’ here yon lodge with me tb’s night, ")You (half not fee the morning light, >My club fliall dalh your brains out righf. J)v    JSay’rt thou To, quoth Jack, that is like oiw:.of your Wcifh tricks, yet I hopevto be cunning ienough for you. Then getting out of bed, heiput a billet in his flead and hid himfdf in a cor- •ner of the room,* and in the dead time of the:night, the Wellh Giant came with his greatknotty club, and (truck feveral ! upon thebed where Jack had laid the biller, and then re¬turned to his own chamber fuppofing he hadbroken all the bones in his body.In the morning Jack gave him hearty thanksfor his lodging. The Giant faid to him, howhave you relted? did you not feel fometbing intiie night ? Nothing (quoth Jack) but a Hatwhich gave me three or four flaps with her tail.Soon after the Giant arofe, and went to break-faft with a bowl of hafly pudding, containingnear four gallons, giving Jack the like quantity;who, being loath to Jet the Giant know hecould not eat with hirti, got a large leather-bagputting it artfully under his loofe coat, intowhich he fecrerly conveyed his pudding, tellingthe Gant, he could fliow him a trick; Thentaking a large knife, he ripped open the bag,which the Giant' fuppofed to be his belly, whenout came the hafly pudding; Ac which theWellh Giant, cried out, Cuts pint, hur can dodat trick hurfelf. Then taking his (harp knife,he ripped up his own belli, from the bottom tothe top, and out dropped his tripes and trolyb-gs, fo that hur fell down for dead ; thus Jackoutwitted the Giant, and proceeded forward onhis journey.JioTV King Arthur's Sow met -with Jack, &c.KING Arthur’s Son, only delired of his fa¬ther to furniib him with a certain fum ofniwneyj that he might go and feek bts fortune—  ( 9 Jin the principality of Wales, where a beam.,ful Lady lived, whom he heard was poflHTedw!th feven evil fpirits; But the K.ng his Father,adviftd him utterly againft it, yet he womd nobe nerfuaded from it; fo that he granted whatbe requelted, which was one hoxfe loaded withmoney, and another for himfelf to ride on; thushe went forth without any attendance.Now after fcveial days travel, he came to amaiket town in Wales, where he beheld alarge concourfe of people gathered together}the Kino’s Son demanded the reafon of it, andwas told, that they had arreUed a c< rple formany large fums of money, which the decealedowed when he dy’d. The King’s Son reply d itis a pity that creditors fliould be lo cruel, gobury the dead (faid he) and let hi» creditors cometo my Lodging, ajid their debts fliah be dif-charged. Accordingly they came, and in inchgreat numbers, that before night he had almoitleft himtylf moneyltfs.Now Jack the Giant Killer being there, andfeeing the generolity of the King’s Son, he wastaken with him, and defired to be his fervant;it waa agreed upon the next morning they fetforward, when at the town end, an old womancalled after him, crying out, he was ow*n metwo pence theie five years: pray Sir, pay meas well as the reU? He puts ins hand into hispocket, and gave it her, it being the lart he hadleft, then the King’s Son turning to J^ck, fa d, I> cannot tell how 1 fliall fubfiU in ojy intendedjourney. <?• For that (quoth Jack) take you nothought nor care let me alpnp, NI warrant youwe will not want.Now Jack havirg a fina'l fpetl in his pocket,which ferved at noon to give them a refi efhment,“when done, they had net one penny left betwixtAS»o( *0 .)them; the afternoon they fpent in travel andiamiliar friendly difcourfe, ’till the fun began togrow low, at which time, the King’s Son laid,Jack, lince we have no money, where can wethink to lodge this night? Jack reply’d, Mailer,we’ll do well enough. For I have an uncle liveswithin two little miles of this place, he’s a hudgeand monllrous Giant with three heads ; He’llfight live hundred men in armour, and makethem to fly before him. Alas! (quoth the King’sSon) what lhall we do there, he’ll certainly chopUs both up at one mouthful! Nciy, we are fcarceenough to fill one of his hollow teeth. It isno matter for that (quoth Jack,) I inyfeif willgo be fere, and prepare the way for you ; there¬fore tarry here, fnd wait my return.He waits, and Jack rides full fpeed, whencoming to the Gates of the callle, he knock’dwith 1'uch a force, that he made all the neigh¬bouring hills refound. The Giant with' a voicelike thunder, roared out; who’s there?. He an-fwered, none but your poor coufin Jack quu1!} he,what news with my poor confnl Jack? He' re¬plied, dear uncle, htavy hews; God wot pritheewhat heavy news can come to me? I am a Giant,with three heads; an i beiules thou knows 1 canfight five hundred men in Armour and makethem fly like chaff before the wind. Oh ! but(quoth J^ck) heie’s the King’s Son coming witha thoufand men in Armour to kill you, and foto defiroy all that you have. Oh! Coulin Jack,this is heavy news indeed; I have a large vaultunder the ground, where I will immediatelyhide myfelf, and thou (halt lock, bolt and bar mein, and keep the keys till the K ng’s Son is gone.Now jack having fecured the Giant, he (nonreturned and fetched his mailer, and were both' "artily merry with the wine, and other dain-ties which •'vere in the houfc: So that nightthey refted in very pleafant lodging?, whilft thep0Gl- Uncle the Giant, lay nembhng in thevault under ground.Early in the morning Jack formlhcd his ma¬iler with a frelh fiupply of gold and filver, andtheji fet him three miles forward on h’s journey ;conc uding he thm was pretty well out of thefrnell of the Gi.nt, and then returned to let hisUncle out of tie hole: Who afked Jack v.hathe (hould give him in reward his cafilc was notdemolifh’d. Why (quoth Jack) i del-re nothingbut the old coat and cap- together with the oldcoat and flippers, which are at your bed-head.Oiioth the Giant, than (halt have them, andpray keep them for my f ke, for they are thing’sof excellent ufe. The coat will keep you invi-fible ; the cap will furnifh you with knowledge ;the fword cuts m (under whatever you (trike;and the fiiocs are of extraordinary fwifrnefs ;Thefe may be ferviceable to you, and thereforepray- take them with all my heart. Jack takesthem, thanking his Uncle and follows his mailer.How "Jack Javed his Mafter's Lije and Drovethe evil Spirit out cf a Lady, <£rc.JACK having overtaken his mafter, they foonafter arrived at the Lady’s houfe : who find¬ing the King’s Son to be a fuiror, (he prepareda bai quit for him; which being ended, fiie wipedhis mouth with h:r handkerchief faying, youmull Ihew me this once to morrow morning, ored’e Jufe your head : And with tltat (he put it intoher own’bofom.The King’s Son went to bed very forrowful,but Jack’s cap of Knc* ledge hifirudted him ho\yto obtain it. In the middle of the night (liecalled upon her familiar fpirit to carry her to(12 rher fri«nd Lucifer, Jack foon put on his cost oftlaiknds, with his (hoes of fwiftnefs, and wa*there as foon as her, by reafon of his coat they. could not fee him. When fhe entered the place,the gave the handkerchief to old Lucifer* wholaid it upon a flielf; from whence Jack took it,and brought it to his mailer, who fhewed it tothe Lady the next day, and fo faved his Life.The next night fhe fainted the King’s Son,telling him, he mufl. fliew her to-morrow morn¬ing, the lips that fhe kjfTcd I a ft, this night, orlolc his head. Ah ! (reply’d he) if you kifs nonebut mine, 1 will, ’tis neither here nor there(laid fhe) if you do nor, death’s your portion.At midnight (he went as before, and was angrywith Lucifer for letting the handkerchief go;But now ((aid fhe) I will be too hard for theKing’s Son, for I vs ill kifs thee, and he’s to fhewthy Lips; which flic did, Jack (landing near himwith his fword of fharpnefs, cut off the devil’shead, brought it under his invifible coat to hismatter, who was in bed, and laid it at the endof h's bolder. In the morning, when the Ladycame up, he pulled it out by the horns, andfhewed her the devil’s bps which (he kitted lad.Thus hav ng aniwered her twice, the enchan-ment broke, and the evil Ipirit left her; at whicht me (lie appeared in all her beauty, a beautifuland virtuous creature. They were married thenext morning, in great pomp and folemnity, andloon after they returned with a numerous com¬pany to the court of King Arthur, where theywere received with the greatett Joy, and loudacclamation by the whole court. Jst'k for h smany and great exploits he had done for tncgood of his country, was made one ot the knightscf the round Table.Thus vve have firallied the firft part of tins^ *3 ) ^jiiaory which aow leads u* to the fecond part*wherein you have a more full account of the ma¬ny valiant and wonderful exploits which was doneby the bold adventures of this great and valiantH**o, Jack the Giant Killer.The SECOND Part.Hovj jfach by King Jlrthur's leave went inpurfuit of Giants yet aHvey &c.JACK having been fuccefUul in all his under¬takings, and refolved not to be idle for thefuture; but to perform what fervice he could forthe honour of his King and country; he humblynquelled of the King his royal mailer, to fit himwith a horfe and money, to travel in 1'earch offtrange and new adventures : For, faid be, thereare mahy Giants yet alive in the remote parts ofthe kingdom, and the dominions of Wales, to theunlpeakable damage of your Majelty’s leige ftib-jefts; wherefore may it pleafe your Majeity togive me encouragement, and I doubt not but ina Ihorf1 time to cut them of root and branch, andto rid the realm of, thofe cruel Giants, and de¬vouring monflers of nature.Now when the King ha 1 heard .hefe noblepropofitions and had duly cor.fidered the milchc-yious practices of thole blood-childly Giants: Heimmediately, granted what honed Jack requeded.and cn the firll day of March, being thoroughlyfurnilhed with all recefTines for h.s }rogreti° hatook leave, not only of King Arthur, but likewifeof all the trudy and l.-ardy Knigh s belonging tothe round Table, who after muen fdutation andfriendly greeting they parted, the K.ng and hisnobles to their courtly palaces, and Ju:k the GiantKTer to the eager purfuit of fortune’s favours,taking with him the cap of knowlege, fvsord ofliurpnds, ihots of fwifcneE, and iikewife- the in-< 14 )viflble coat, the better to perfedt and complete thedangerous *.iterprizes that lay before him.How Jack flew a Giant, end delivered aKm^ht and his Lady jrom death.JACK travelling over vail hills and wonderfulmountains, when at the end of three days, hecame to a large and fpacious wood through whichhe mud needs pafs, where on a fudden to hisgreat amaz ment he heard dreadful thrieks andcries : Whereupon calling his eyes around to ob-i'erve' what it might be, behe d with wonder, aGiant rufhing along with-a worthy knight andhis fair hdy,‘ which he held by the hair of the rheads in his hands, with as much cafe, as it theyhad been but a pair of gloves; the fight of whichinched poi r Jick into tears of pry and compaf-lion: wherefore, he abghted off from his brie;which he left tied to an o;.k tree, and then puttingon his invilibie coat, under which he earned hisfwovd of fliarpnefs, be came up to the Giant., andthough he made feveral paffes at him: yet never- ,th'* c "' it could not reach the trunk of h s body,by” reafon of his height, tho’ it wounded h.sthighs in feveral places: but *;!,tta L.nging broke, he cut oft both h.s legs juftbelow the knees, fo that the trunk of h.s body,made not only the ground to lhake, but fkew.iethe trees to tremble with the force ot h’s fall atwhich bv mere fortune, the knight and his ladySeabed his rage, then bad Jack tune to talk wi hWin' fetring his foot upon his neck fa.d, t^uvage and ba.barous wretch, I am come to exe-v|io,i you the juft i«»|W of your v, l«y.— And with that running him through andthe morifter fent forth a hideous groan, >1 -cd up his life, into the hands cf the valunt ecu( T5 )queror; Jack the Giant killer, while the nobleKnight and virtuous lady were both joyful fpec-t a tors of his fudden downfal, and their deliverance.This being done, the courteous Knight and hisfair lady, not only returned him hearty thanks/or their deliverance, but alfo invited him 1 orre,there to refrefti himfelf afier the dreadful en¬counter; as likewife to receive fome ample re¬ward by way of gratitude for h;s good fervice.No quoth Jack, I cannot be at cale till I find-outthe den which was this menders habitation. TheKnight hearing tins, waxed right lorrowful andreply’d, noble dr anger, it is too much to rtfn afecond rifk, for this noted monfler lived in a denunder yon mountain, with a brother of his, morefierce and fiery then himfelf; and therefore if youlliouid go hither and perifh in the attempt, itwould be the heart breaking of both me and mylady, here let me perfuade you to go with us anddefid from any farther purfuit; Nay, quoth Jack,if there be another; nay, if there were twenty1 would died the lad drop of my blood in mybody, before one of them fiiall tfcape my fury,and when 1 hate finifhed this talk, I will comeand pay my refpeds to you. So taking dirt/Uonsto their habitation, be mounted his horfe, leav¬ing them to return home, while he went in pur-ihit of tire decealed Giants brother.How Jack Jltw the other Giant, andjeut boththeir heads to King Arthur,TACK had not rode pad a m;le and a half be¬fore he came in fight of the cave’s mouth,near to the entrance of which he beheld theother Giant, fitting upon a huge block of timber,Witn a knotted iron club lying by hi; fide, waitingas he luppofed., for his brother’s return with hisflames of fire, his ionntenance grim and ugly,and his cheecks appeared like a couple of Lrgefat flitches of bacon : moreover the bnt'Ls of liighead (Vem’d so refemble rods of iron wire; hislocks hung down upon his broad (boulders, likecurled fnakes or biffing adders.Jack ahghted from bis horfe, and put him intoa thicket, then with his coat of darknefs he comefomewhat near to behold his figure, and faidfoftjy. Oh! are you there? It will not be longe’er I take you by the besrd. The Giant all thistime C' uld not fee him by reafon of his mv:fibrecoat, fo coming up clofe to him, valiant Jackfetching a blow r.t bis head with his fword offhirpnels, and miffing fomewhat of his aim, cutoff the Giant’s nofe, whofe noflrils were widerthan a pair of jnck-boots; the pain was terribleand fo he put up his hand to his nofe, and whenhe could not find it, he rav’d and roar’d hwderthan claps of thunder: and thoJ he turn’d up hislarge eyes, he could not fee from whence theblow came, which had'-'done him that gi eat el f-after; neverthelefs be took up his iron knottedclub, and began to lay about him like one flatkmad: Nay, quoth Jack, if you be for that (port,then will I dt!patch ydu quickly, for fear of anaccidental blow falling out. 'Then as the Giantrole fro71 his block, Jack makes no more to do,but runs his fword up to the hilt in the Giant sfundament, where he left it flicking for a whileand flood laughing with his hands a kim bow tofee the Giant caper and dance the cannaries withhis fword in his arfe, crying out, he fhould die,he Ihould die, wi;h the gripping of his guts. 1 husdid the Giant continue raving for an hour ormore, and at length fell down dead whofe dread¬ful fall had like to have crufhed poor Jack, naOhe not been nimble to avoid the fame.1 ’ JThis being done, Jack cut off both the Giantsheads and lent them both to King Arthur by a /waggoner, whom he hired for the fame purpofe,together with an account of his profperous fuccefs; in ah his undertakings.How Jack Jearched their cave, and deliveredmany men out of captivity.JACK paving thus difpatch’d thcle two monfiers,refolved with hirnfejf to enter the cave infrarch of thefe Giants treafure; he part'd alongthrough many turnings and windings which ledhim at length to a room paved with free Hone,at th£ upper end of which was a boiling ci’dron,then on the right hand (food a large table; where(as he fuppofed) the Giants ufed to dine, thenhe came to an, iron gate, where was a windowfecured with bars of iroti, through which helooked, and there beheld a vail many miferablecaptives; who feeing Jack at a diitance, cried outwith a loud voice, Alas] young man, arc thoucome to be one amongd us in this miferable deo ?Ay, quoth Jack, i hope 1 (hall not tarry logjrhere: but pray tell me what is the"meaning ofyour captivity? why, faid one, young man, I’lltell you, we are perfons that have been taken bythe Giants that keep this cave, and here we arekept till fuch time as they have occafion for aparticular fcad, and then the fattefl among)! us isfiaughtered, and prepared for their devouringjaws: it is not long fince they took three of usfor the fame purpofe; nay, many are the timesthey have dined on murdered men. Say you lbquoth Jack, well, 1 have given them both fucha dinner, that it will be long enough e’er they’llhave occafion for any. i he miferable captiveswere amazed at his words; You may believe me,quoth Jack, for I have (lain then* both with the\ T5 J 1point of my fword, and as for their monfirnoo*;heads I feivt them-in a waggop to the court r.filKing Artlrir, as Trophies of my nnpara’lelM vicltory. And for teP.imohy of the truth he had faidjhe unlock’d the iron gate fetting the miferableicaptivity at liberty, whcr all rejoiced like condemn¬ed malefactors at the fight of a reprieve: thenleading them all together to the aforefaid room,he placed them round thq table, ang.fet beforethem two quarters of beef, a» alfo bread andwine, to that he feafted them very plentifully,topper being ended, they fcarehed the Giant’scoffers, where finding a vafi flore of gold andfilver, Jack equally divided it amongit them:they all -returned him hearty .thanks, for their.treafure and miraculous deliverance. That nightthey went to their red, and in the morning theya rote and departed, the captives to their refpec-live tow;« and places or abode; and Jack to theknight’s houie, whom he had formerly deliveredfrom the hand of the Gunt.flow yack came to tke Knight's houje, and hisnoble ^Entertainment there, &c,IT was about Sun rifiug when Ja - mountrdhis horfe to proceed on his journey, and bythe help of his dirc&ions he came to the Kmght shoufe tome time before noun: where he was re¬ceived with all demonflerattons cf joy imagin¬able by the Knight and h s lady, who in honour¬able i efpeCt to Jack prepared a fealt, which lattcdfor many days, inviting all the gentry in the a -iacvnt parts, to whom the worthy Kmgtn wasplea fed to relate the manner of his former i an¬ger, and the happy deliverance, by the timUun-ted courage of Jack the Giant Kdler: Yway of gfatitude, he prefented him with a Amg/f gold on which was engraven by curious *rf,he picture of the Giant dr»gging- aKn'ght and his fair Lacy by the hair of the head,with .this Motto. 'We are in fad diflrefs you fee,! Mdder a Giant’s fierce command;But gaiSi’d our Lives and Liberty,B“y vtjiant Jack’s victorious hand.Now among!! , the vaft aflembly there prefent,twere five sged Gentlemen who were fathers to|fome of tbple niilerable captives, which Jack hadI lately let at,i,liberty ; who underfiandirg that hewas the peribn that performed thofe great won¬ders, they itnmediatcly paid thesr venerable re-jfpeffs: After which their mirth encreafed, andthe fmiling bowls went freely round to the p: o-fperous iuccefs to the vidorious idonqueror. Butin the miflft of all mirth, a dark cloud appeared,which dauiued all the hearts of this afiembly.Thus it was. a rwdTenger brought the difni'al tid¬ings of the,approach of one Thunderdel, a hugeGiant with ^vo heads; who having heard of tiedeath, of his kiufnven, the above named Giants;was come, from the. Northeren poles in fearch af¬ter Jick to be revenged of him for their meftiniferable downfaf, at d was within a mile of theKnight’s feat, the country people flying beforehim, from their houfes and. habitations like chaffbefore the wind When they had relatid tfm^Jack not a v.’hit daunted, faid, let him come, I amprepared with a tool to pick his tooth, and yougentlemen and ladies, walk Vt forth into thegarden, and you fhall be the joyful fpeftators ofthis monfterous Giant’s death and dertruftion.To which they all confcnted, every one w.filinghim good fortune in that great and dangerousttmerpnze.Hoxv Jack overthrew the Giant in the Moat.VrT''Hfc fnuatioa of the Knight’s houfe fake asifollows: It was placed in the midlt of a,fmall ifiand, e.'CompafTed round with a vaft moat.Jthirty feet deep, and twenty feet wide, oveniwhich lay a draw bridge. Wherefore Jack etn- iployed two men to cut it on both fidts, almoftito the mi Idle; and then dreffing himfelf in hi$coat of darknefs, likewife putting on his Shots©f fwiftnds, he marches forth againfl the Giant, iwith his fword of lharpnefs ready drawn; yetwhen he came clofe up to him, the Giant couldrot fee Jack by reafon of his inviljble coat whichhe had en, yet nevertheiefs he was fcnfible offome approaching danger, which made him cryout in.thefe words.Fe, Fi, Fo, Futn,I fmell the blood of an Englifh man;Be he living or be he dead.I’ll grind his bones to mix my bread.Says thou fo quoth Jack, then thou art a mon.ftrous Miller indeed: But how if I /bonld ferv*thee as I did the two Giants of late, in my con*fcience I fhould fpoil your practice for the future.At which time the Giant Ipoke with a voice asloud as thunder: Art thou that viHian whichdellroyed my two kinftnen? Then will I tearthee with my teeth, fu«k thy blood and wha: ismore, i will, grind thy bones to powder. Youmoft catch me firit quoth Jack; and with thathe threw off his coat of darknefs that theGiant rryght tee him dearly, and then run fromhim a* through f The Giant with a foam¬ing mourIt, and glaring eyes, following alterlike a walking cattle, making the foundation ofthe Earth, as it were, to ihake at every Hep,Jack led him a dance three, or tour times roundthe moat that belonged to the Knight’s houtc.( 2* ).at the gentlemen and ladies might take a fullvew of this huge moniler of nature, who fullow-!j J.ck with all his might, but could not ovtr-i.ke him by reafon of his fhoes of fwiftnefs:' hich earned him falter than the Giant couldHow. At length Jack to finifli the work tookiVer the bridge, when with the weight of his,ociy srd the molt dreadful lieps that he took.It broke down, and he tumbled into the water,where he roll’d and wallow’d like a whale. Jacklanding at the fide of the moat, laugh’d at thejianc and faid you told me you would grind my>or.es to powder, here you have water enough,iray where is your mill ? The Giant fretted andoamed to hear him feoff at that rate; and tho*:e plunged from place to place in the Moat, yetre could not get out to be revenged en his ad-nerfary. Jack at length got a cart rope, and cartt over the Giaots two heads with a fihp-knot,•<nd by the help of a team of horfes, draggedtrim out again, with which lie was near llrangled;land before he would let him loofe, he cut off‘both his heads with his fword of /harpnefs, inthe full view? of all the worthy affembly ofitn gkts, gentlemen- and ladies, wh® gave a jov-u! jhout when Wey faw the Giant fairly dil>patched. Then before he wmuld either eat or(rinnk, he fent thefe heads alfo after the other to;tne court of King Arthur: Which being done.Ithen Jack w-ith the knights and ladies, return-cd to trur mirth amf paftime, which Ulted formany days.Koiv Ja ck came to the houfe of an old. Hermit%enui what Dijcourje happened between them.'A Riome t,me fpenr in tr.umphant mirthJivintr j3C,k 8rew wcary of notouskmrrhrt ra<{lng JeaVe of' tile8 ‘ and he fee forward in 1'eatch of-( « )new adventures. Thro’ many woods and groveshe palled, meeting with nothing remarkable tillat length coming to the foot of an highjnoun-tain late at night he knocked at the door of alontiotne houfe, at which time an ancient mat),*' jwith a head as white as fnow arofe and let hint !ip. Father, daid Jack, have you any entertain,ment for a benighted traveller, that has loft hisway ? Yes, faid the man, if thou will acceptof luch accommodation as nty poor cottage willafford, thou flialt be right welcome. Jack re¬turned him many thanks, for his great civility,wherefore down they fat together, and the old:man began to difeourfe him as follows: Son,laid he, l am fenlible thou arc the great con¬queror of Giants, and it is in thy power to freethis placq of the country from an iivtr.lerableburden which we groan under. For behold my''fon, on the top of this high mountain, there isan inchanted callie kept by a huge monftrousGiant, named Galigantus, who by the help ofan old conjuror betrays matjy knights and ladiesinto this ilrong caftle; where by Mngick Artthey are transformed into lundry fhajaes andforms: But above all, I lament the fad* mif-fomme of a Duke’s Daughter who n theyfetch’d from her father’s garden by Art, carry¬ing her through the air in a mourning chariot,drawn as it were by two fiery dragons, and beingi ecu red within the walls of the caftle, fhe wasimmediately transformed into the Teal Inane ofa white Hind: tho’ many worthy knights hareendeavoured to break the incTantment, andwork her deliverance, yet none of them couldaccomplifh this great work, bv reafon of twodreadful Griffins who were fix'd by magrek art.at the entrance of the caUle gate; which de-Itroys any as loon as they Ice. tnsia- But jou- \ l “i ))y for, being furniihed with an invifible coaf,ay p.fs, by them undifeovtred. Whereuponie bi 'Zen gate, of the callle you find cn-raven in l.rge charade'rs, by what means theichawment may be broken.This old man havirfg ended his d fcourfe,ack gave him his hand, with a faithful prei-lfe,hat in the morning he would venture his life toVtreak the fnchantnunt, and free the lady, to-| ether with the reft that were miferable partnersIn her calamity.HI Huiv yack got into the inchanted Cajlle, brokethe inchantmentf killed the Giant, put theconjurer to fi:ght. Jet free the Knights, andLadies, &c.AVING refrefhed themfelves with a fmallmorfal of meat they laid them dowp to red,md in the morning Jack aroie and put on his in*vifible coat, his cap of knowledge, and flioes offwittnefs, and fo prepares himfeif for the dan-jerotis enrerprir.e.Now when he had afcended to the top of themountain, he footi difcovcred the two fiery Grif-fint ; he parted on between without fear, for theycould not lee him by reafon of his invilible coat':tiow when he was yy beyond them, he call hiseyes around him, where he found upon the gatea golden trumpet, hang in a chain of fine Uivcr.under wh ch thefe lines were engraven.W hofbever, fhall this truiitpet blow,bhall foon the Giapt overthrow.And break the black inchamment OraighfSo all flrall be in happy ft ate. *-Jdck'had no fponer read this infer;ption but heblew the crumpet, at which time the vaft foun-, . i t ~ 1.1tut vaii loun-dation of the caflle trembled, and the Giant, te-getner with the conjurer, was in horrid confulndn,releafed knights and ladies. This being done the fhead of Galligantus was likewife (according to his jaccuftomed manner conveyed to the court of King.IArthur as a prefcnt made to his Majerty. The ]very next day after having refrefhed the knights :'and ladies at the old man’s habitation, who livedat the foot of the mountain, he fet forward forthe court of King Arthur, with thofe knights iand ladies which he had fo honourably delivered.When coming to his Majefly, and having re¬lated all the p.ifliges of his fierce encounters,and his fame run thro’ the whole court; and as ?a reward of his good fervice, the King prevailed |with the aforefaid Duke to be bellow his daughter Jin niirriage to honed Jack protelling that there <was no man fo wotjthy of her as he; to all whichthe Duke very honourably confented :t So married - «they were, and not only the court, but likewife |the kingdom was filled with joy and triumph atthe wedding. After whiph tne king as a rewardfor his good ftrvices done to the nation, bellowedupon him a noble habitation, with a very plen¬tiful ellate belonging thereunto, where he and hislady jived the remainder of their days in pe^ce.F I N I S.mfcife