MJ?^HE HIS.TORyAND HISDog Oscar. |ROM HOGG'S EVENING TALES.IPrinted by D. ilacartcr& Sons, Ayr.. Price Three ha/f-pence.DUNCAN CAMPBELL.Duncan Campbell came from the Highlands, whsix years of age. to live with an old maiden auntEdinburgh, and attend the school. His mother wdead : but his father had supplied her place, by mirying his houskeeper. Duncan did not trouble hiself about these matters, nor indeed aboht aother matters, save a black foal of his fatherand a large sagacious colley, named Oscar, whibelonged to one of the shepherds. There beino other boy save Duncan about the house, Oscar al?e were constant companions —with his garter tiround Oscar’s neck, and a piece of deal tied to his tbusby tail, Duncan would often lead him about tgreen, pleased with the idea ti.at he was conductinghorfe and cart. Oscar submitted to all this with grecheerfulness, but whenever Duncan mounted to rion him, he found means instantly to unhorse hiieither by galloping, or rolling himself on feretWhen Duncan thr itened him, he looked submissiand licked his face and hands; when he corrected hiwith the whip, he cowered at his feet;—matters wesoon made up. Oscar would lodge no where duriithe night but at the door of the room where his you!friend slept, and wo be to the man or woman who vetured to enter it at untimely hours.When Duncan left his natjv.e home he thought nof his father, nor any of the servants. He was foiof the ride, and some supposed that he even Scarcethought of the black foal; but when he saw Oscstanding looking him ruefidty in the face, the teaimmediately blinded both his eyes. He caught hiaround the neck, hugged and kissed him,—“ GooOscar,” said he blubbering; “good-bye, Gis|iless you, my dear OscarDuncan mounted beforet servant, and rode away—Oscar still followed at adistance, until be reached the top of the hill—he then,iat down and howled; Duncan cried till his little heartPiyas like to burst.—” What ails you ?” said the servant,|f I will never see my poor hones; Oscar again,” saidi Duncan, “an’ my heart canna bide it ”Duncan staid a year in Edinburgh, but he did notpiake great progress in learning. He did not approvehighly of attending the school, and his aunt was toondulgent to compel his attendance. She grew ex-b remely ill one day—the maids kept constantly by her,*5|md never regarded Duncan. He was an additionalcharge to them, and they never loved him. but useduim harshly. It was n>ow with great difficulty that liecould obtain either meat or drink. In a few days af-^r his aunt was taken ill she died.—All was in con-sion, and poor Duncan was like to perish with hun-Eer;—he could find no person in the house ; but hear-ig a noise in his aunt’s chamber, he went in, and be-eld them dressing the corpse of his kind relation;—-t was enough.—Duncan was horrified beyond whatlortal breast was able to endure;—he hasted downt he stair, . id ran along the High Street, and Southbridge, as fast as his feet could carry him, crying in-essantly all the way. He would not have enteredhat house again, if the world had been offered him asreward. Some people stopped him, in order to ask.hat was the matter , but he could only answer themy exclaiming, “ Oh, dear! Oh, dear!” and, struggling" 11 he got free, held on his course, careless whither heent, provided he got far enough from the horridzene he had so lately witnessed. Some have sup~osed, and I believe Duncan has been heard to con*-i&9, that he then imagined he was running for thelighlands, but mistook the direction. However thatas, be continued his course until he came to a places4wher^ two ways tret, a little south of Grange Toll.Here he sat down, and hjs frenzied passion subsidedinto a soft melancholy';—he cried no more, but sob¬bed excessively ; fixed his eyes on the ground, andmade some strokes in the dust with his finger.A sight just then appeared, which somewhat cheer¬ed, or at least interested, his heavy and forlorn heart—Si: was a large drove of Highland cattle. They werethe only creatures like acquaintances that Duncan hadseen for a twelvemonth, and a tender feeling of joy,pjixed with regret, thrilled his heart at the sight ofJtheir white horns and broad dew-laps. As the vanpassed him, he thought their looks were particularlygruft' andjsulien; he soon perceived the cause, theywere all in the hands of Englishmen ;—poor exiles likehimself;—going far away to be killed and eaten, andwould never see the Highland hills again !When they were all gone by, Duncan looked afterthem and wept anfew ; but his altention was suddenly• called away to something that softly touched his feet;—he looked hastily about—it was a poor hungry lamedog, squatted on the ground, licking his feet, andmanifesting the most extravagant joy. Giacious Hea¬ven ! it was his own beloved and faithful Oscar ! starved,emaciated, and so crippled, that he was scarcely ableto walk! He was now doomed to be the slave of aYorkshire peasant, (who, it seems, had either bought[ or stolen him at Falkirk,) the generosity and benevo¬lence of whose feelings were as inferior to those of Os¬car, as Oscar was inferior to him in strength andpower. It is impossible to conceive a more tendermeeting than this was; but Duncan soon observed! • that kanger and misery were painted in his friend’sj looks, which again pierced his heart with feelings un¬felt befor#, 1 have not a crumb to give you, mypair Oscar!” said he—“I have not a crumb to eatmyself, but I am not so ill as you are." The peasantI5_* . • /whistled aloud. Oscar well knew the sound, and |ijclinging to the boy’s bosom, leaned his head npon hisfbtgh, and looked in his face, as if saying, “ O Dunrcan, protect me from yon ruffian.” The 'whistle .(i-epeated accompanied by a loud and surly cajl. Os¬car trembled, but fearing to disobey., he limped awayreluctantly after his unfeeling master,, who observingIiim to linger and look back, imagined he wanted to.'ffiect his escape, and came running back to meet him.3scar coweted to the earth in thtrmost submissive andimploring manner, but the peasant laid hold of him bythe ear, and uttering many, impredations, ttruck himwith a thick staff till he lay senseless at his feet.Every possible circumstance seemed combined tow»tmd the feelings of poor Ounea'nj but this unmerit- * ficd barbarity shocked him,most of. all. He hasted to ■tk.e scene of action, weeping bitterly; and telling theman that he uvas-a cn*-gl brute; and that if ever hehimself grew a big man be would certainly kid him.He held up his favourite’s head that he might recover 'iihis breath, and the man knovvibg that he COUid do little'without his dog', wuited patiently t®, see what wouldbe the issue. The ani rtial rcc-ov,ei:ed, and stammeredaway at the heels of-his tyrant without daring to look •jjbehinri him. Duncan estood still, .but kept his eyesj(eagerly' fixed upon Osear, and the, farther he wentfrom him, the more strong-his desire grew to followijhim. He looked the other way, but all there was tohim a blank —he had no desire to stand where he was,; so he' followed Oscar and the drove of cattle.The cattle were weary and wertf slowly, and Dun¬can, getting a little goad in his hand, assisted the mengreatly in driving them, i One of the drivers gave him # :a penny, and another gave him twopence ; and thelad who had the charge of the drove, observing how' active and pliable he was, and how far he had acco'ui- ipanted him on the way, gave him sixpence; this w asa treasure to Duncan, who being extremely hungry6bought three penny rolls as he passed through a town;one of these he ate himself, another he gave to Oscar;•and the third he carried below his arm in case of far¬ther necessity. He drove on all the day, and at nightthe cattle rested upon a height, which, by his descrip¬tion, seems to have been that between Gala Waterand Middleton. Duncan went off at a side in com- hpany with Oscar, to eat his roll, and taking shelter [Ibehind an old earthen wall, they shared their dry meal (jmost lovingly between them. Ere it was quite Ifinished, Duncan being fatigued dropped into a pro- Ifound slumber, out of w hich he did not awake until jthe next morning was far advanced. Englishmen, Icattle, and Oscar, all were gone. Duncan found him-I• self alone on a wild height, in what country or kingdom |he knew not. He sat for some time in a callous stup-1or, rubbing his. eyes and scratching his head, but 1quite irresolute what was farther necessary for him to Ino. until he Was agreeably surprised by the arrival ofj:Oscar, who (though he had gone at his master’s call |in the morning) had found means to escape and seek ithe retreat of his young friend and benefactor. Dun- Jican, without reflecting on the consequences, rejoicedin the event, and thought of nothirtg else than further- ring his escape from the ruthless tyrant who nowiclaimed him. For this purpose he thought it would))be best to leave the road, and accordingly he crossed!it, in order to go over a waste moor to the westward.)He had not got forty paces from the road, until hel’beheld the enraged Englishman running towards hinifwithout his coat, and having his staff heaved over his.j* shoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted within him, know-jing it was all over with Oscar, and most likely with!himself. The peasant seemed not to have observed rthem, as he was running, and rather looking the otherway; and as Duncan quickly lost sight of him in a shollow place that lay between them, he crept into ahush of tenth and took Oscar in his bosom; the7the man had observed from whence the dag started fothe morning, and hasted to the place, expecting tofind him sleeping beyond the old earthen dike: hefound the nest, but the birds were flown,—he calledaloud; Oscar trembled and clung to Duncan’s breast;Duncan peeped from his purple covert like a heath-cock on his native waste, and again beheld the ruffiancoming straight towards them, with his staff still heav¬ed, and fury in his looks;—when he came within afew yards he bellowed out; “Oscar, yho, yho!"Oscar quaked, and crept still closer to Duncan’s breast;Duncan almost sunk in the earth; “D n him,’’said the Englishman, “ if 1 had a hold of him I shouldmake both him and the little thievish rascal dear at asmall price; they cannot be far gone —I think I hearthem;” he then stood listening, but at that instant afarmer came up on horseback, and having heard himcall, asked him if he had lo.-t his dog ? The peasantanswered in the affirmative, and added, that a black¬guard boy had stolen him. The farmer said that liemet a hoy with a dog about a mile forward. Duringthis dialogue, the farmer’s dog came up to Duncan’sden,—smelled upon him, then upon Oscar,—cockedhis tail, walked round them growling, and then be¬haved in a very improper and uncivil manner to Dun¬can, who took all patiently, uncertain whether he wasi yet discovered. But so intent was the fellow uponthe farmer’s intelligence, that he took no notice of thediscovery made by the dog, but ran off without look¬ing over his shoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance so great that all hisother distresses vanished ; and as soon as the man wasout of his sight, he arose from his covert, and ran overthe moor, and ere it was long came to a shepherd’shouse, where he got some whey and bread for hisbreakfast, which he thought the best meat he hadever tasted, yet shared it with Oscar.Though I had his history from his own mouth, yet-8j t-'/cro is a space here which it is impassible to relatevf?1'. atiy’fiegPce of distiVicthess' ot ititbrestl' H‘efWijs a?Tn^abend',b'6^, wrtltout any fixed'habitation, and wari-\ ccreij 'ab'cut ff errjot Moor, from one farfti-hoase tora'olhtr, !f;r the space of a year': slaying from oneto iwenty nights in each house, according as he foundMiO people hind to him. He.seUoai resented any• ii'.dl'afnltyr'o'ftejed to hihiself, but whoever insulted 0*-caV, or offered any observations on the impropriety oftheir friendship,‘lost Duncan's company next morning.| He staid several months at a place called Dewar, which, hi said'was haunted by the ghost of a piper;—thatj I iper had. been murdered there many years before, in,f a inamter somewhat mysteriaus, or at least unaccounta-: Lie ;' and th.re was scarcely a night on which he wasI supposed dither tube seen or heard about the' house.Duncan slept hr the cow-house, and was terribly ha-! Vssed bv thepiper; he often heartlhim scratching about! the raft.ers, and sometimes he would groan, like a man'ying. or a cow that was choaked in the band ; but. at' length be saw Jiim at his side one night, which so dis¬composed plm. thht he was obliged to leave the place,after being ill for many days. I shall give this storyLin “Dirrit&n’s own words, which I have often iiedrd him. repeat without any variation.“ 1 had been driving some young cattle to the heightsof ' villenslfee—it grew late before I got home.—1 wasthinking, arid thinking, how cruel it was to kill thepoor piper !'to cut out his tongue, and stab him inthe back. I thought it was no wonder that his ghosttook it extremely ill; when, all on a sudden, 1 per-! eeived a light before me ;—I thought the wand ill myhand was all on fire, and threw it away, but I perceiv-| cd the light glide slowly by my right foot, and burnj behind me ;— I was nothing afraid, and turned abouts to‘look at the light, and there I saw the piper, whowas standing hard at my back, and when I turnedround, he looked me in the face.” ‘ What was he9Ifte, Duncan ?” “ He was like a dead body! but Igot a short view of him; for that moment all aroundme grew dark as a pit!—1 tried to run, but sunkpowerless to the earth, and lay in a kind of dream, Ido not know how long ; when I came to myself,' I gotup, and endeavoured to run, but fell to the groundevery two steps. I was not a hundred yards from thehouse, and I am sure I fell upwards of a hundredtimes. Next day I was in a high fever; the servantsmade me a little bed in the kitchen, to which I wasconfined by illness many days, during which time Isuffered the most dreadful agonies by night; alwaysimagining the piper to be standing over me on the oneside or the other. As soon as I was able to walk, Ileft Dewar, and-for along time durst neither sleepalone during the night, nor stay by myself in the day¬time.”The superstitious ideas impressed upon Duncan’smind by this unfortunate encounter with the ghost ofthe piper, seem never to have been eradicated ; a strsnginstance of the power of early impressions, and a warn¬ing how much caution is necessary in modelling theconceptions of the young anil tender mind, for, of allmen I ever knew, he is the most afraid of meetingwith apparitions. So deeply is his imagination tahte lwith this startling illusion, that even the calm disquisi¬tions of reason have proved quite inadequate to thetask of dispelling it. Whenever it wears late, ho isalways on, the look-out for these ideal being?,' keepinga jealous eye upon every bush and brake, in case theyshould be lurking behind them, ready to fly out addsurprise him every mamentand the approach of aperson in ti e dark, or any sudden noise, always de¬prives him of -he power *• speech for som-’e time.After leaving Dewar, he again wandered about fora few weeks ; and it appears that his youth, beauty,and peculiarly destitute situation, together with hisfriendship for his faithful Oscar, had interested the10most part of the country people in his behalf, for hewas generally treated with kindness. He knew hisfather’s name and the name of his house ; but as noneof the pepole he visited had ever before heard of eitherthe one or the other, they gave themselves no troubleabout the matter.He staid nearly two years in a place he called Cow-haur, till a wretch with whom he slept, struck and!abused him one day. Duncan, in a rage, flew to the|loft and cut all his Sunday hat, shoes, and coat, int]pieces; and. not daring to abide the consequences,»decamped that night.He wandered about for some time longer, amongithe farmers of Tweed and Yairow ; but this life wasnow become exceedingly disagreeable to him. Hedurst not sleep by himself, and the servants did notalways choose that a vagrant boy and his great dogshould sleep with them.It was on a rainy night, at the close of harvest, that?Duncan came to my father’s house. 1 remember allthe circumstances as well as the transactions of yes-1terday. The whole of his clothing consisted only ol !•one black coat, which, having been made for a fullgrown man, hung fairly to his heels; the hair of his ihead was rough, curled, and weather-beaten; but hist1face was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking a healthy tbody, and a sensible feeling heart. Oscar was still tnearly as large as himself, had the colour of a fox, :with a white stripe down his face, and a ring of the isame colour around his neck, and was the most beau-ttifui colley I have ever seen. My heart was knit to»Duncan at the first eight, and I wept for joy when I jsaw my parents so kind to him. My mother in par-fjticular. could scarely do any thing else than converseswith Duncan for several days. I was always of thejiparty, and listened with wonder and admiration; bunoften have these adventures been repeated to me. Myi,parents who soon seemed to feel the same concern foil11him as if he had been their own son, clothed him in[blue drugget, and bought him a smart little Highlandujonnet ; in which dress he looked so charming, that I*ould not let them have peace until I got one of thelame. Indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to mer pattern, for I loved him as my own life, I was, atiny own request, which he persuaded me to urge, per¬mitted to be bis bed-fellow, and many a happy nightitnd day did I spend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as I remember we felt no privation of anyI and, and would have been completely happy, if it badlot been for the fear of spirits. Wj^en the conversa-ion chanced to turn upon the Piper of Dewar, thetlaid of Flora, or the Pedlar of Thirlestane Mill, oftenlave we lain with the bed-clothes drawn over our headspntil nearly suffocated. We loved the fairies and tlx?Brownies, and even felt a little partiality for t'ja mer¬maids on account of their beauty and charming song-;M-e were a little jealous of the water-kelpies, and al-.m ays kept aloof from the frightsorne pools. We hatedihe devil most heartily, but we were mot much afraid>f him ; but a ghost ! oh, dreadful ! the names, ghost,iipirit, or apparition, sounded in our ears like the knell•f destruction, and our hearts sunk within us as ifpierced by the cold icy shaft of death. Duncan herd-,id my father's cows all the summer—so did I—weiiould not live asunder. We grew fishers so expert,pliat ihe speckled trout, with all his art, could not eludei ur machinations; we forced him from his watery cove,Ifdmired the beautiful shades and purple drops thati/ere painted on his sleek sides, and forthwith added. Lim to our number without reluctance. We assailedihe habitation of the wild bee, and rifted all her accu¬mulated sweets, though not without encountering themost determined resistance. My father’s meadows'bounded with hives ; they were almost in every swathi-jn every hillock. When the swarm was large, they<’Ould beat us off, day after day. In all these despe-.12rate engagements, Oscar came to our assistance, anilprovided that none of the enemy made a lodgement iihis lower defiles, he was always the last combatant aeur party on the.fi eld. I do not remember of ever buing so much diverted by any scene I ever witnessed :or laughing as immoderately as I have done at seeinlOscar involved in n moving cloud of wild bees, wheel|Tng, snapping on all sides, and shaking his ears incessantly.The sagacity which this animal possessed is alrno:]incredible, while his undaunted spirit and generosityit would do hbmSir to every servant of our own specieto copy. Twice did he siivediis master’s life :.at ontime when attacked by a furious bull, and at anothetime when he’fell from behind my father off a horsinto a flooded rjjBhr. Oscar had just sjvirmneu acrosibut iristantly ptCmgcd in a second time to his master!rescue. He first got hold of his bonnet, but that coming off, he quitted it and again catching him by thcoat, brought him to the side, where my father regched him. He waked Duncan at a certain hour evermorning, and would frequently turn the cows of h:own will, when he observed them wrong. If Duncadropped his, knife, or any other small article, he woolfetch it along in his mouth ; and if sent back for a Idsthing, would Infallibly find it. When sixteen yearof age, after being unwell for several days, he died on,night below his master’s bed. On the evening beforewhen Duncan came in from the plough, he came frorbis hiding-place, wagged bis tail, licked Duncan*hand, and returned to. his death-bed.' Duncan andlamented him with unfeigned sorrow,’buried him below the old rowan tree at the back of my father’s garden, placing a square stone at his head, which was stistanding the last time I was there. With great laboutwe composed ah epitaph between us, which was oqccarved on that stone ; the metre was good, but tbstone was so hard,’ and the engraving so faint, that th131 'laracters, like those of our early joy*, are long agoi efaced and extincf.toften have I heard my mother relate iviHi enthusiasm,“le manner in which she and my father first discover-1 l the dawnings of goodness and facility ef conceptionI Duncan’s mind, though, I confess, dearly as I lovedt m, these circumstance escaped my observation. Ittas my father’s invariable custom to pray with the fa-; iiy every night before they retired^to rest, to thank.! .e Almighty for his kindness to them during the by-jme day, and to beg his prdtefctior through the darklid silent watches of the night, h heed not informiy of my readers, that that amiable duty, cons'?! teif in[inging a few stanzas of a psalm, in which hll the family|ined their voices with my father’s, so that the doublerfoves of the varioijs ages and sexes swelled to thenple concert. Hq then read chapter from theIible, going straight on ffom beginning to end of theiriptures. The prater eontluded the devoti'orrs ofch evening, in which the downfall of Antichrist wasvays strenuously urged, the ministers of the Gospelmemhered, nor was any friend or neighbour cn dis-?ss forgot.At one time, the year foihnvmg, my /athrr, in theur-e . .of his evening devotions^ had foached the'th chapter of the book of. Judges'; Vliln'he'beganIdiog it, Duncan was seated cm th'e/other sidd of2 house, but ere it was half do’n.e, tuf'♦a’d’ sloUm up*se to my father’s elbow. u“ c'onsidyvfe'fit t.ike'ad-!^c,fpeak j'our itdnd” said my father’'.-, fl' cfbsed thb'Goon go.hn'ifyotrolease'. Sirfsitiil Doncait—!go on, and let u's fica'f-vlmt ths.yJs'Aid'nh'-.',nt it.” Myher looked’.-tefidy'hi Duncan'i !f.;cf'-,''ftiH Seeing himashed on account of hi* h.asfy hrca.ch' of decency,l.hout uttering aVoid, he dgain opfe^ed the Bible,l| l read the 20t!l chapter thrhiigluui't. notwithstandingits great length. Next day Duncan was walkingnit with the Bible below bishrm, begging of everybody to read rt to him a^ain and again. This incideijfproduced a conversation between my parents, on ttljlexpenses and utility of education; the consequent jof which was, that the week following. Duncan and;1were sent to the parish school and began at the saninstant to the study of that most important and fundi!mental branch of literature, the A, B, C; but n;sister Mary, who was older than I, was already an a.curate and elegant reader.This reminds me of another anecdote of Dunciwith regard to family worship, which I have oftheard related, and which I myself may well retnemhMy father happening to be absent over night at a fawhen the usual time of worship arrived, my motidesired a lad, one of the servants, to- act as chap lafor that night; the lad declined it, and slunk awayhis bed- My mother testified her regret thatshould all be obliged to go prayerless to our bedsthat night, observing, that she did not remember ttime when it had so happened before. Duncan aid,thought we might contrive to manage it amongst iand instantly proposed to sing the psaim and pray,,Mary would read the chapter. To this my mothwith some hesitation agreed, remarking that if he pra, ied as he could, with, a pure heart, his prayer hadgood a chance of being accepted as some other tliwere better toorded. Duncan could not then read, bhaving learned several psalms from Mary by rote,caused her seek out the place, and sung the 2Psalm from end to end, with great sweetness and dCency. Mary read a chapter in the New Testament, athen (my mother having a child on her knee) we thrjkneeled in a row, while Duncan prayed thus :—“Lord, be thou our God, our guide, and our guard udeath. $ through death” that w as asentence my fatherten used his in prayer; Duncan had laid hold of it, andmother began to think that he had often prayed previto that time.—- ,Q Lord, thou'’—continued, Duncan15! matter was exhausted; a long pause ensued, whicht length bruke, by bursting into a loud fit of laugh*, Duncan rose hastily, and, without once liftinghis head, went crying to his bed ; and as I continu-to indulge in laughter, my mother, for my irreve-d behaviour, struck me across the shoulders with thegs ; our evening devotions terminated exceedinglyI went crying to my bed after Duncan, even loud-ilthan he, and abusing him for his useless •prayer, for: ich I had been nearly felled.(By the time that we were recalled from school tol*d the cows next summer, we could both read thai|:>le with considerable facility, but Duncan far excell-tjme in perspieacity ; and so fond was he of readingpie history, that the reading of it was now our con-fat amusement. Often have Mary, and he, and I,J* under the same plaid by the side of the corn orladow, and read chapter about on the Bible for hoursfether, weeping over the failings and fall ol goodh, and wondering at the inconceivable might of thetoes of antiquity. Never was man so delighted ast.ncan was when he came to the h'Story of Samson,jt; afterwards of David and Goliath; he could not beIsfied until he had read it to every individual withpm he was acquainted, judging it to be as new and^interesting to every one as it was to himself. 1|e seen him standing by the girls as they wereIking the cows, rt ading to them the feats of Samson ;, in short, harassing every man and woman abouthamlet for audience. On Sundays, my parentsampanied us to the fields, ajid joined in our delight-exercise.rime passed away, and so also did our youthful de-Us ! but other cares and other pleasures awaited us.i we advanced in years and strength, we quitted thefling, and bore a hand in the labours of the farm,ry, ton, was. often our assistant. She and Duncaar|2 nearly of an age-hq was tall, comely, and affablq;*16Ikand if Mary was not the prettiest girl in the parishleast Duncan and I believed her to be so, which,us, amounted to the same thing. We often comed the other girls in the parish with one another w.their beanty and accomplishments, but to thin'comparing any of them w.th Mary, was entirelyof the question. She was, indeed, the emblemtruth, simplicity, and innocence, and if there weremore beautiful, there were still fewer so goodamiable; but still as she *<!vanced in years, $he gitfonder and fonder of being near Duncan; and bytime she was nineteen, was .^o deeply in love, thiaffected her manner, h<h- spirits, and her health. Fone time she was gay and frisky as a kitten ;!would dance, sing, tin’d laugh violently at the >ttrivial incidents. At other times she was silentsad, while'a languishing softness overspread hertutes, and added greatly to her charms. : The pastwas iirtdou'itedly mutual between them ; but Duneeither, from a''sense of honour or some other catneverdeclared hims.elf farther on the subject, tliarthe most respectful attention and tender assiduitieAbout foity years ago, the flocks of southern shwhich hav? since .that perjOij'hAmdate'd thehad not foundand the nativeso scanty, that it Was found , necessary toHigh Ittd’their way over'th6 Grampian mounta;ve flocks pfj'hid. sequestered country «ytranfsmftll quantities of wool ann'ually to tlie north, tonisli materials for clothing the inhabitants. Ditwo rponths of eacli summer, tlie hill countries oLowlands were inundated by hundreds of womenthe Highlands, who bartered small articles *of iand of domestic import, for wool : these” were kby ,the appcflation of norlen* netticsand few ipassed, during the wool season, that gome ofwere not lodged at my father’s house. It wastwo .of these that Duncan learned one day winwhat he was; that he was the laird of Gicnetr17ton and heir, and that a large sum had been nf-to any person that could discover him. Mys certainly rejoiced in Duncan’s good fortune,:iey were disconsolate at parting with him; forJ long ago become as a son of their own ;^gnd II sly believe, that from the day they first met, to(j n which the two norlari netties came to our house,i lever once entertained the idea of parting. Fortrt. I wished that the netties had never beeni or that tfiey had staid at their own home; fori oughts of being separated from my dear friendi me sick at heart. Ail our feelings'were, how-/^nothing, when compared with those of my sistere day at dinner, after a long and sullen pause,ther said, “ I hope you do not'intend to Favey soon, Duncan ?” “ I am thinking of goingto-morrow, Sir,” said Duncan. The knife fellmy mother’s hand; she looked him steadily inze for the space of a minute. “ Duncan,” saidher voice fauitering, and the tears droppingher eye,—“ Duncan, I never durst ask' you, but I hope you will not leave us altogether?”m thrust the plate from before him into the; of the table—took up a book tint lay on thew, and looked over the pages—Mary left theNo answer was returned, nor any further ,y made! and our liule party broke up in si-en we met again in the evening, we were stilllen. My father said, “ You will soon forgetfncaii; out there are some among us who will! soon forget you.” Mary again '-efi the roomlence ensued, until the family were called to-'i for evening worship.! next morning, after a restless night, Duncanirly, put on his best suit, and packed up someirticles to carry with him. I lay panting and18trembling, 'bat pretended to be fast asleep. Whenwas ready to depart, he took his bundle below his arcame up to the side of the bed, and listened if 11|sleeping. He then stood long hesitating, looking wijfully to the door, and then to me, alternately; ansaw him three or four times wipe his eyes. At lenihe shook me gently by the shoulder, and asked if 11awake. I feigned to start, and answered as if Iasleep. “I must bid you farewell,” said he, grop\;to get hold of my hand. “ Will you not breakwith us, Duncan ?” said I. “ No,” said he, “ Ithinking that it is best to steal away, for it will brmy heart to take leave of your parents, and"-who. Duncan ?” said I. “ And you.” said hedeed, but it is not best, Duncan,” said I ; ‘ we wil,breakfast together for the last time, and then taformal and kind leave of each other.” We lid brtfast rogether, and as the conversation turned ontner days it become highly interesting to us all. Wmy father hM returned thanks to Heaven for our mwe knew what was coming, and began to look at (other. Duncan rose, and after we had all loadedwith our blessings and warmest wishes, he embrtmy parents and me.—He turned about.—His eyesplainly, there is somebody still wanting, but his hiwas so fuli he could not. speak. “ What is becom■Mary ?" said my fatherMary was gone.—searched the house, the garden, and the houses athe cottagers, but she was nowhere to be founPoor lovelone forsaken Mary ! She had hid hersethe ancient yew that grows in front of the oldthat she might see her lover depart, without hobeing seen, and might indulge in all the luxury ofiI must pass over Duncan’s journey to the iHighlands for want of room, but on the even!the sixth day after leaving my father’s house, hened the mansion-house of Glenellich, which stands.little beautiful woody strath, commanding a vi19!'! Deu-Caledonian Sea, and part of the Hebrides !fy avenue, tree, and rock, was yet familiar to Dun-s recollection; and the feelings of his sensible: irt like his own. He had, without discovering him*, learned from a peasant that his father was stille, but that he had never overcome the loss of hisj , for whom he lamented every day; that his wife: daughter lorded it over him, holding his pleasureiiiiought, and rendering his age extremely unhappy;I they had expelled all his old farmers and vassals,1 introduced the lady’s vulgar presumptuous rela¬ys, who neither paid him rents, honour, nor obedi-!r*J>ld Glenellich was taking his evening walk on the1 by which Duncan descended the starth to histilling. He was pondering on his own misfortunes,ii| did not even deign to lift his eyes as the strangeriijjroached, but seemed counting the number of marksfch the horses’ hoofs had made on the way. “Good| to you, Sir,” said Duncan;—the old man startedIn stared him in the face, but with a look so un-Jdy and harrassed, that he seemed incapable of dis-lluisliing any lineament or feature of it. GoodI,” said he. wiping his brew with his arm, and pass-fby.—What there was in the voic6 that struck himforcibly it is hard to say.—Nature is powerful.—ftican could not think of ought to detain him ; andl;g desirous of seeing how matters went on aboutijhouse, thought it best to remain som? days iwcbg.went into the fore-kitchen, conversed freely with1 servants, and soon saw his stepmother and sisterf ar. The former had all the insolence and ig-llnt pride of vulgarity raised to wealth and emi-!e; the other seemed naturally of an amiableisition, but was entirely ruled by her mother,taught her to disdain her father, all his relations,whomsoever he loved. On that same evening heinto the kitchen, where she then was chatting20with Duncan, to whom ^he seemed attached at firtsight. “ Lexy, my deaf,” said he* “ did you seespectacles'?” “ Yes,” said she, “ I think I saw theoh your nose to-day at breakfttst.” “Well, butjhave lost them since,” said he. “ You may takethe next you find then, Sir,” said she.—The servailaughed. “ I might well have known what inforrtion I would get of you," said he, regretfully. “ Hfjcan you speak' in such a style to your father, adear lady ?” said Duncan.—If I were he I .wodjplace you where yoii should learn better ipanners.jIt ill becomes so pretty a young lady to addressold father thus.” “ He !” said she, “ wliominds hhtHe’s a dotard, j<n old ndiining, complaining,antiated being, worse, than a' child.” ‘‘But consill (his years,” said Duncan g “and besides,- he may htimet with crosses tmd lo'ssfessufHcieut to sour-the teiiip 1of a younger.man Ydu should at ail events pity irevfcrence, l>ut never despise your father.'’ ’riielady nowthin*joined them. “ You have yet hear lV if youI have I;said the,b, young manhow my heart is. sometimes wiungold laird,Yes,lossesmeteed.You losses! ’ kaid his spouse“ No ; you never had any losst‘s that d>d not in l ■end tiu n put a vast profit."—“ Do- you then ■ cbi •'the loss of a loving wife* and a son nothing ?" she-—“ but have you not got a loving wife and a daujter in iheif room returned she ; “the one will,11waste your fortu.ne as a prodigal son would have doand the other‘will take care of b'dtli you and that, w!you can lib longer do either—the Iosb-of your son •deed ! it v, as the greatest blesking you could hrebPTved !” “ Unfeeling woifian/’said he ; “but H* aven may yet restore that son to protectgray hairs < f his old father, and lay his Itin an honoured grave.’ The old man’s sp 1were quite gone he cried like a child 1his lady mimicked him —and at this, his d.u f21id the servants raised a laugh. “Inhumani ; les,” said Duncan, starting up, and pushing them'| “ thus to mock the feelings of an old man, even||gh he were not the lord and master of you[jut take notice—the individual among you allilares to offer such another insult to him, I’ll[ 4)11 that fire.” The old man clung to him, and1 him ruefully in the face. “ You impudent,,rly vagabond !” said the lady, “ do you knowiom you speak ?•—servants turn that wretch outI; house, and hunt him with all the dogs in the1.” “ Softly, softly, good lady,” said Dun-| ‘ take care that I do not turn you out of the.’’—“Alas! good youth” said the old laird, v1 little know what you are about; for mercy’s!rbear ; you are brewing vengeance both forf and me.” “ Fear not,” said Duncan, “ I willyou with my life.” “ Pray, may I ask you5 your name ? ’ said the old man still lookingly at him—“ That you may,” replied Duncan,an has so good a right to ask any. thing of mehaVe—I am Duncan Campbell, your own son.”i-m-my son !” exclaimed the old man, and sunkon a seat with a convulsive moan. Duncanim in his arms --he soon recovered, and askedincoherent questions-—looked at the two molesright leg-,— kissed him, and then wept on hisfor joy. “ O God of heaven,” said he, “ it isince I could thank thee heartily for any thing ;do thank thee indeed, for I have found my sc .!ar and only' son !”.' trary to what might have been expected, Dan-fcrelty only sister Alexia rejoiced most of all■jl discovery. She was almost wild with joy atJ; such a brother—The old lady, her toother,jid to have wept bitterly in private,, but knowingWuncan would be her master, she behaved tolith civility and respect. Every thing was com-; to his management, and hi. sooa discovered,22that besides a good clear estate, his father had persoijfunds toa great amount. The hallsand cottages of Glt|ellich were filled with feasting, joy, and gladness.It was not so at my father’s house. Misfortt!seldom come singly. Scarcely had our feelings ovcome the shock which they received by the lossour beloved Duncan, when a more terrible misfortovertook us. My father, by the monstrous ingrtude of a friend whom he trusted, lost at oncegreater part of his hard-earned fortune. The blf‘ icame unexpectedly, and distracted his personal affitto such a degree, that an arrangement seemedmost totally impracticable. He struggled on wsecurities for several months; but perceiving that itwas drawing his real friends into danger, by th .signing of bonds which he might never be able todeem, lie lost heart •entirely, and yielded to therent. Mary’s mind seemed to gain fresh energy eviday. The activity and diligence which she evin*in managing the affairs of the farm, and even in ging advice with regard to other matters, is quitecredible ;—often have I thought what a treasure tinestimable girl would have been to an industri'man whom she loved. All our efforts availed ;thing ; my father received letters of horning on bilka large amount, and we expected every day thatwould be taken from us and dragged to a prison, iWe w'ere all sitting in our little room one day, c isuiting what was best to be done—we could decupon nothing, for our case was desperate—we wfallen into a kind of stupor, but the window being tia sight appeared that quickly thrilled every he ,with the keenest sensations of anguish. Two ecame riding sharply up by the back of the old sell!house. “ Yonder are the officers of justice nosaid my mother, “ what shall we do?” We hum*to the window, and all of us soon discernedthey were no other than some attorney, accompa:X• •23: i sherifTs officer. My mother entreated of my;r to escape and hide himself until this first stormi ■ jver-blown, but he would in nowise consent, assur-(:s that he had done nothing of which he was asham-nd was determined to meet every one face to face,et them do their worst; so finding all our entreaties. we could do nothing but sit down and weep,isngth we heard the noice of their horses at the. “ You had better take the men's horseses,” said my father, “ as there is no other man at1.” “ We will stay till they rap, if you please,”. I. The cautious officer did not however rap,afraid lest his debtor should make his escape,ft imped lightly from his horse, and hasted into the. e. When we heard him open the outer door,t his footsteps approaching along the entry, our•its fainted within us—he opened the door andtied into the room—it was Duncan ! our ownly beloved Duncan. The women uttered an in-ntary scream of surprise, but my father rail andmid of one hand and 1 of the other—my mothersoon had him in her arms, but our embrace was; for his eyes fixed on Mary, who stood trem-j with joy and wonder in a corner of the room,jtging her colour every moment—he snatched heri his arms and kissed her lips, and ere ever sheaware, her arms had encircled his neck. “ O^ar Mary,” said he, “ my heart has been ill atsince I left you, but I durst not then tell you aof my mind, for-1 little knew how I was to finds in the place where I was going ; but ah ! youIi elusive rogue, you owe me another for the onecheated me out of then so saying, he pressedips again to her cheek, and then led her to a seat,i) can then recounted all his adventures to us, withjjy circumstance of his good fortune—our heartsuplifted almost past bearing—all- our cares andfowc were now forgotten, and we were once more'the happiest little group that ever perhaps sat tgether. Before the cloth was laid for dinner, Mairan out to put on her white gown, and comb her yelow hair, but was surprised at meeting with a smayoung gentleman in the kitchen, with a scarlet neton his coat, and a gold-laced hat. Mary, haviinever seen so fine a gentleman, made him a 1courtesy, and offered to,conduct him to the roor,but he smiled, and told her he was the squire’s s<vant. We had all of us forgot to ask for the geniiman that came with Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked for two hours in tgarden that evening---we did not know what passilbetween them, but the next day he asked her .marriage of my parents/ and never will I forget isupreme happiness ami gratitude that beamedevery face on that happy occasion. I need not t<my readers that my jfatlier’s affairs were soon retrieea, or that I accompanied my dear Mary' a bridethe Highlands, and had the satisfaction of salutiiher as Mrs. Campbell; and Lady of Glenellich.jfims.- 'i£ -jW Uffl