rNo. 2.THEHISTORYOPCOLUMBUS,EDINBURGH:PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOOTH HANOVEK STREET.HISTORYOFCHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.Christopher Columbus, the celebrated naviga¬tor, and first discoverer of America, was a na¬tive of Genoa. Neither the time nor place ofhis birth is known with certainty ; only he wasdescended of an honourable family, who, by va¬rious misfortunes, had been reduced to indi¬gence. His parents were sea-faring people ;and Columbus having discovered, in his earlyyouth, a capacity and inclination for that wayof life, was encouraged by them to follow thesame profession. At the age of fourteen, hewent to sea : his first voyages were to thoseparts in the Mediterranean frequented by theGenoese ; after which he took a voyage to Ice¬land ; and proceeding still further north, ad¬vanced several degrees within the polar circle.After this, Columbus entered into the serviceof a famous sea-captain of his own name andfamily. This man commanded a small squa¬dron, fitted out at his own expense; and bycruising, sometimes against the Mahometans,and sometimes against the Venetians, the rivalsof his country in trade, had acquired wealth andreputation. With him, Columbus continuedfor several years, no less distinguished for hiscourage than his experience as a sailor. AtHISTORY OR CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. Slength, in an obstinate engagement, off themcoast of Portugal, with some Venetian cara¬vans, returning richly laden from the LowrlCountries, the vessel on board which he served"took fire, together with one of the enemy’sI ships, to which it was fast grappled. ColumbusII threw himself into the sea, laid hold of a float-ing oar, and by the support of it, and his dex¬terity in swimming, he reached the shore,which was about two leagues distant.After this disaster, Columbus repaired to( Lisbon, where he married a daughter of Bar-iltholomew Perestrello, one of the captains em¬ployed by Prince Henry in his early naviga-(itions, and who had discovered and planted theI islands of Porto Santo and Madeira. Having:i got possession of the journal and charts of that((experienced navigator, Columbus was seizedwith an irresistible desire of visiting unknownP countries. To indulge it, he made a voyage toI Madeira, and continued for several years to: trade with that island, the Canaries, Azores,i the settlements in Guinea, and all the otherI places which the Portuguese had discovered onI the continent of Africa. By the experience ac-1 quired in such a number of voyages, Columbusi now became one of the most skilful navigatorsin Europe. At this time, the great object of dis¬covery was a passage by sea to the East Indies.This was attempted, and at last accomplishedby the Portuguese, by doubling the Cape of' Good Hope. The danger and tediousness ofthe passage, however, supposing it to be reallyiE accomplished, which us yet it was not, set Co-H lumbus on considering whether a shorter andn more direct passage to these regions might be1 found out; and, after long consideration, he4 HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COEUMBUS.became thoroughly convinced, that, by sailingacross the Atlantic Ocean, directly towards thewest, new countries, which probably formeda part of the vast continent of India, must in¬fallibly be discovered. His conjectures wereconfirmed by the observations of modern navi¬gators. A Portuguese pilot, having stretchedfarther to the west than usual, picked up a pieceof timber, artificially carved, which was floatingon the sea ; a«nd as it was driven towards him bya westerly wind, he concluded that it came fromsome unknown land situated in that quarter.Columbus’ brother-in-law had found, to the westof the Madeira Isles, a piece of timber fashionedin the same manner, and brought by the samewind ; and had seen also canes of an enormoussize floating upon the waves, which resembledthose described by Ptolemy, as productionspeculiar to the East Indies. After a courseof westerly winds, trees torn up by the rootswere often driven upon the coast of theAzores ; and at one time the dead bodies oftwo men, with singular features, which re¬sembled neither the inhabitants of Europe norAfrica, were cast ashore there. Even the mis¬takes of ancient geographers, as to the immenseextent of India, as well as various other rea¬sons, contributed to persuade Columbus thatthe shortest and most direct course to the re¬mote regions of the east, was to be found bysailing due icest.In the year 1474, Columbus communicatedhis ingenious theory to Paul, a physician ofFlorence, eminent for his knowledge of Cosmo¬graphy. He warmly approved it, and encou¬raged Columbus in an undertaking so laudable,and which promised so much benefit to theHISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLFMBL’S.0‘world. Having fully satisfied himself with re¬spect to the truth of his system, he became im¬patient to reduce it to practice. The first steptow'ards this was to secure the patronage ofsome of the European powers. Accordingly,he laid his scheme before the senate of Genoa,making his native country the first offer of hisservices. They rejected his proposal as thedream of a chimerical projector. He next ap¬plied to John II., king of Portugal, a monarchof an enterprising genius, and no incompetentjudge of naval affairs. The king listened tohim in the most gracious manner, and refer¬red the consideration of his plan to a numberof eminent cosmographers, whom he was accus¬tomed to consult in matters of this kind. Thesemen, from mean and interested views, startedinnumerable objections, and asked many cap¬tious questions, on purpose to betray Colum¬bus into a full explanation of his system. Hav¬ing done this, they advised the king to dispatcha vessel, secretly, in order to attempt the pro¬posed discovery, by following exactly thecourse which Columbus had pointed out. John,forgetting on this occasion the sentiments be¬coming a monarch, meanly adopted .their per¬fidious counsel.Upon discovering this dishonourable trans¬action, Columbus, with an indignation naturalto an ingenuous mind, quitted the kingdom,and landed in Spain in 1484. Here he repre¬sented his scheme, in person, to Ferdinand andIsabella, who at that time governed the unitedkingdoms of Castile and Arragon. They injudi¬ciously submitted it to theexaminationof unskil¬ful judges, who, ignorant of the principles onwhich Columbus founded his theory, rejected itHISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER CO I. I'M MI'S.as absurd, upon the credit of a maxim underwhich the ignorant and indolent, in every age,shelter themselves, “That it is presumptuous inany person to suppose that he alono possessesknowledge superior to all the rest of mankindunited.” They maintained, likewise, that ifthere were really any such countries as Colum¬bus pretended, they would not have remainedso long concealed ; nor would the wisdom andsagacity of former ages have left the glory ofthis discovery to an obscure Genoese pilot.Meanwhile, Columbus, who had experiencedthe uncertain issue of applications to kings,had taken the precaution of Sending into Eng¬land his brother Bartholomew, to whom he hadfully communicated his ideas, to negociate thematter with Henry VII. On his voyage toEngland, he fell into the hands of pirate's, whostripped him of every thing, and detained hima prisoner several years. At length, he madehis escape, and arrived at London in extremeindigence, where he employed himself some timein selling maps. With his gains, he purchaseda decent dress, and in person presented to theking the proposals which his brother had en¬trusted to his management. NotwithstandingHenry’s excessive caution and parsimony, hereceived the proposals of Columbus with moreapprobation than any monarch to whom theyhad been presented. After several unsuccessfulapplications to other European powers of lessnote, he was induced, by the entreaty and in¬terposition of Perez, a man of considerablelearning, and of some credit with Queen Isa¬bella, to apply again to the Court of Spain.This application, after much warm debate, andseveral mortifying repulses, proved at last sue-HISTORY or (-TTRfSTOPTTEft COLUMBUS.ticssful, though not without the most vigoroustml persevering exertions of Quintanilla andSantangel, two vigilant and discerning patrons|jof Columbus, whose meritorious zeal in pro¬moting this grand design entitles their namesto an honourable place in history. It was,owever, to Queen Isabella, the munificent pa-ijtroness of his public-spirited enterprise, thatjColumbus ultimately owed his success.Having thus obtained the assistance of thecourt, a squadron of three small vessels wasfitted out, victualled for twelve months, and.furnished with ninety men. The whole expenseidid not exceed i?4000. Of this small squa¬dron, Columbus was appointed admiral. The.chief articles of his treaty with Ferdinand(and Isabella were signed April 17, 1492.These were, that Columbus should-be consti-iituted high admiral in the seas, islands, andIcontineut he should discover, with the samepowers and prerogatives that belonged to thehigh admiral of Castile within the limits of hisjurisdiction. He was also appointed viceroy injail those countries to be discovered ; and thetenth of the products accruing from their pro¬ductions and commerce was granted to himfor ever. All controversies or law-suits withrespect to mercantile transactions were to bedetermined by the sole authority of Columbus,or of judges to be appointed by him. He wasalso permitted to advance one-eighth part ofthe expense of the expedition, and of carryingon commerce with the new countries, and -wasentitled, in return, to an eighth of the profit.But, though the name of Ferdinand was joinedwith Isabella in this transaction, his distrustof Columbus was still so violent, that he refused8 HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.to take any part in the enterprise as King ofArragon; and as the whole expense of the expe¬dition was to be defrayed by the crown of Cas¬tile, Isabella reserved for her subjects of thatkingdom an exclusive right to all the benefitswhich might accrue from its success.On August 3, 1492, he left Spain in thepresence of a crowd of spectators, who unitedtheir supplications to heaven for his success.He steered directly for the Canary Islands,where he arrived and refitted, as well as hecould, his crazy and ill-appointed fleet. Hencehe sailed, September 6th, a due western courseinto an unknown ocean. Columbus now founda thousand unforeseen hardships to encounter,which demanded all his judgment, fortitude,and address to surmount. Besides the diffi¬culties unavoidable from the nature of hisundertaking, he had to struggle with thosewhich arose from the ignorance and timidity ofthe people under his command. On the 14thof September, he was astonished to find thatthe magnetic needle in their compass did notpoint exactly to the polar star, but varied towardthe west; and as they proceeded, this variationincreased. This new phenomenon, which is nowfamiliar, though the cause remains one of the ar¬cana of nature, filled the companions of Colum¬bus with terror. Nature itself seemed to havesustained a change; and the only guide theyhad left, to point them to a safe retreat froman unbounded and trackless ocean, was aboutto fail them. Columbus, with no less quicknessthan ingenuity, assigned a reason for this ap¬pearance, which, though it did not satisfy him¬self, seemed so plausible to them, that it dis¬pelled their fears, or silenced their murmursHISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. 9for some time. The sailors, however, discon-itented, and alarmed at their distance fromland, several times mutinied, and once pro¬posed to throw their admiral overboard. Co-Jumbus was now fully sensible of his perilousSituation. He had observed, with great un¬easiness, the fatal operation of ignorance and!of fear in producing disaffection among hiscrew ; and saw that it was now ready to burstJout into open mutiny. He retained, how-lever, perfect presence of mind. He affected toseem ignorant of their machinations. Not¬withstanding the agitation and solicitude of hisfown mind, he appeared with a cheerful counte-mance ; like a man satisfied with the progresswhich he had made, and confident of success,i Sometimes he employed all the arts of insinua-ition to soothe his men.—Sometimes he endea¬voured to work upon their ambition or avarice,by magnificent descriptions of the fame and1 wealth which they were about to acquire. Oni other occasions, he assumed a tone of authority,and threatened them with vengeance from theirsovereign, if, by their dastardly behaviour, they; should defeat this noble effort to promote thej glory of God, and to exalt the Spanish nameabove that of every other nation. Even with; seditious sailors, the words of a man whom theyi had been accustomed to reverence were weighty1 and persuasive; and not only restrained themfrom those violent excesses which they medi¬tated, but prevailed with them to accompanytheir admiral for some time longer. As theyproceeded, the indications of approaching landseemed to be more certain, and excited hopein proportion. The birds began to appear inflocks, making towards the south west. Co-10 HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER GOLUMHUS.lumbus, in imitation of the Portuguese navi¬gators, who had been guided in several of theirdiscoveries by the motion of birds, altered hiscourse from due west towards that quarterwhither they pointed their flight. But afterholding on for several days in this new direc¬tion, without any better success than formerly,having seen no object during thirty days butthe sea and the sky, the hopes of his compa¬nions subsided faster than they had risen;their fears revived with additional force ; impa¬tience, rage, and despair, appeared in everycountenance. All sense of subordination was'lost. The officers, who had hitherto concurredwith Columbus in opinion, and supported hisauthority', now took part with the private men.They assembled tumultuously on the deck, ex¬postulated with their commander, mingledthreats with their expostulations, and requiredhim instantly to tack about and to return toEurope Columbus perceived that it would beof no avail to have recourse to any of his formerarts, which having been tried so often had losttheir effect ; and that it was impossible to re¬kindle any zeal for the success of the expedi¬tion among men in whose breasts fear had ex¬tinguished every generous sentiment. He sawthat it was no less vain to think of employingeither gentle or severe measures, to quell a mu¬tiny so general and so violent. It was neces¬sary, on all these accounts, to soothe passionswhich he could no longer command, and to giveway to a torrent too impetuous to be checked.He promised solemnly to his men that he wouldcomply with their request, provided they wouldaccompany him and obey his commands forthree days longer; and if, during that time.HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.J1land were not discovered, he would then aban¬don the enterprise, and direct his course back; to Spain. Enraged as the sailors were, and(impatient to turn their faces again towardstheir native country, this proposition did noti appear to them unreasonable. Nor did Co¬lumbus hazard much in confining himself to ai term so short.The presages of discovering land were now sonumerous and promising, that he deemed theminfallible. For some days, the sounding-linereached the bottom, and the soil which itbrought up indicated land to be at no greatdistance. The flocks of birds increased, andwere composed not only of sea-fowl, but of suchland-birds as could not be supposed to fly farfrom the shore. The crew of the Pinta oh-,served a cane floating which seemed to be newlycut, and likewise a piece of timber artificiallycarved. The sailors aboard the Nigna took upthe branch of a tree with red berries perfectlyfresh. The clouds around the setting sun as¬sumed a new appearance ; the air was moremild and warm ; and, during night, the windbecame unequal and variable. From all thesesymptoms, Columbus was so confident of beingnear land, that, on the evening of the 11th of 'October, after public prayers for success, heordered the sails to be furled, and the ships tolie by, keeping strict watch, lest they shouldbe driven ashore in tho night. During thisinterval of suspense and expectation, no manshut his eyes ; all kept upon deck, gazing in¬tently towards that quarter where they ex¬pected to discover the land which had been so^long the object of their wishes. About twohours before midnight, Columbus, standing on12 HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLOMBU8.the forecastle, observed a light at a distance,and privately pointed it out to Pedro Guttierez,a page of the queeri’s wardrobe. Guttierezperceived it; and calling to Salcedo, comp¬troller of the fleet, all three saw it in motion,as if it were carried from place to place. Attwo o’clock next morning, Roderic Triana dis¬covered land, and the joyful sound of Land!land! was heard from the Pinta, which keptalways a head of the other ships. But havingbeen so often deceived by fallacious appear¬ances, every man was now become slow of be¬lief ; and waited, in all the anguish of uncer¬tainty and impatience, for the return of day.As soon as morning dawned, all doubts andfears were dispelled. From every ship anisland was seen about two leagues to the north,whose flat and verdant fields, well stored withwood, and watered with many rivulets, pre¬sented the aspect of a delightful country. Thecrew of the Pinta instantly began the Te Deum,as a hymn of thanksgiving to God ; and werejoined by those of the other ships, with tearsof joy and transports of congratulation. Thisoffice of gratitude to heaven was followed byan act of justice to their commander. Theythrew themselves at the feet of Columbus, withfeelings of self-condemnation mingled with re¬verence. They implored him to pardon theirignorance, incredulity, and insolence, whichhad created him so much unnecessary disquiet,and had so often obstructed the prosecution ofhis well-concerted plan ; and passing, in thewarmth of their admiration, from one extremeto another, they now pronounced the man,whom they had so lately reviled and threatened,to be a person inspired by heaven with saga-HISTORY OP CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. IScity and fortitude more than human, in orderto accomplish a design so far beyond the ideasand conception of all former ages.As soon as the sun arose, all their boatswere manned and armed. They rowed towardsthe island with their colours displayed, withwarlike music, and other martial pomp. Asthey approached the coast, they saw it coveredwith a multitude of people whom the noveltyof the spectacle had drawn together, whosejj attitudes and gestures expressed wonder andastonishment at the strange objects which pre-h sented themselves to their view. Columbuswas the first European who set foot in theNew World which he had discovered. He! landed in a rich dress, and with a naked swordin his hand. His men followed ; and, kneel¬ing down, they all kissed the ground whichthey had so long desired to see. They nexterected a crucifix ; and, prostrating themselvesbefore it, returned thanks to God for conduct¬ing their voyage to such an happy issue. Thisisland was one of the Bahama Islands; towhich he gave the name of San Salvador, andtook possession of it in the name of their Ca¬tholic Majesties.The naked and painted natives, when theyhad recovered from their fright at hearingthe discharge of the artillery, regarded thewhite men, by whose confidence they weresoon won, as visitors from the skies whichi bounded their horizon; they received fromthem, with the greatest transport, toys andtrinkets, fragments of glass and earthenware,as celestial presents possessing a supernaturalvirtue. They brought, in exchange, cotton-yarnand cassava bread, which, as it keeps longer14 HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.than wheaten bread, was highly acceptable tothe Spaniards.On the 24th of October, Columbus set out inquest of gold, which he thought was the onlyobject of commerce worth his attention. Afterdiscovering Conception, Exuma, and Isla Lar-ga, Cuba broke on him like an elysium. lienext took Hayti, or Santo Domingo, for the an¬cient Ophir, the source of the riches of Solo¬mon, but he gave it the name of Hispaniola,from its resembling the fairest tracts of Spain.Leaving here the germ of a future colony, hoset sail homeward on January 4, 1493. Adreadful storm overtook him on the 12th ofFebruary. Columbus, fearing the loss of hisdiscovery more than the loss of life, retiredinto his cabin, and wrote two copies on parch¬ment of a short account of it. He wrappedthem in wax, enclosed them in two separatecasks, one of which he threw into the sea, andthe other he placed on the poop of his vessel,that it might float in case she slmuld sink.Happily the storm subsided, but another drovehim off’ the mouth of the Tagus on the 4th. ofMarch ; and although distrustful of the Por¬tuguese, he was constrained to take shelterthere. At last, he landed triumphantly atPalos, March 15, 1493. As soon as the shipwas discovered approaching, all the inhabitantsran eagerly to the shore, where they receivedthe admiral with royal honours. The courtwas then at Barcelona, and Columbus imme¬diately acquainted their Majesties of his ar¬rival. They were no less delighted than asto¬nished with this unexpected event They gaveorders for conducting him into the city with allimaginable pomp. In his journey throughHISTORY OP CHRISTOPHER COLUAIHUS. 1 5Spain, he received princely honours all hisway to Barcelona. His entrance here, withsome of the natives, and with the arms andutensils of the discovered islands, was a tri¬umph as striking and more glorious than thatof a conqueror. Ferdinand and Isabella re¬ceived him clad in their royal robes, andseated on a throne under a magnificent canopy.When he approached, they stood.up; and,raising him as he kneeled to kiss their hands,desired him to take his seat upon a chair pre¬pared for him, and to give a circumstantial ac¬count of his voyage. When he had finishedhis oration, which he delivered with much mo¬desty and simplicity, their Majesties, kneelingdown, offered up solemn thanks to God for thediscovery. Every possible mark of honour thatcould be suggested by gratitude or admiration,was conferred on Columbus ; the former capitu¬lation was confirmed, his family was ennobled,and a fleet was ordered to be equipped, to enablehim to go in quest of those more opulent coun¬tries which he still confidently expected to find.On the 25th of September 1493, Columbusleft Cadiz, on a second expedition, with seven¬teen ships and 1500 men. He discovered theCaribbee Islands, Puerto Rico, and Jamaica ;and after repeated mutinies of his colonists,and great hardships, he returned against thetrade-winds to Cadiz, June 11, ]4.9(i. Havingdispelled all the calumnies that had been accu¬mulated upon him, Columbus embarked the30th of May 1498, at San Lucar de Barra-meda, on a third expedition, with only six ves¬sels. On the 1st of August, he attained thegreat object of his ambition, by discovering thecontinent of America, near the mouth of the1 6 HISTORY OR CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.Orinoco. He then coasted along westward,making other discoveries for 200 leagues, toCape Vela, from which he crossed over to His¬paniola, to recruit his health. The dissensionswhich arose here, the calumnies of miscreantswho had been shipped off to Spain, counte¬nanced as they were by envious courtiers athome, the unproductiveness of the new settle¬ment, and regret at having vested such highpowers in a subject and a foreigner, who couldnow be dispensed with, induced Ferdinand, inJuly 1500, to dispatch Francisco de Bovadilla,a knight of Calatrava. to inquire into the con¬duct of Columbus, with orders, in case he foundthe charge of maladministration proved, to su¬persede him, and assume the ofiRce of governorof Hispaniola. The consequence of this was, thatColumbus was sent to Spain in chains. Val¬lejo, the officer who had him in charge, andMartin, the master of the caravel, (or lightbarque, no better than our river and coastingcraft,) would have taken his chains off; butColumbus proudly said, “ I will wear them tillthe king orders otherwise, and will preservethem as memorials of his gratitude.” He hungthem up in his cabinet, and requested that theyshould be buried in his grave. The generalburst of indignation at Cadiz, which was echoedthroughout Spain on the arrival of Columbusin fetters, compelled Ferdinand himself to dis¬claim all knowledge of the shameful transac¬tion. But still the king kept Columbus in at¬tendance for nine months, wasting his time infruitless solicitations for redress ; and at lastappointed Nicholas Orando, governor of His¬paniola, in his place.With restricted powers and a broken frame,HISTORY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS. 17but with his ever-soaring and irrepressible en¬thusiasm, Columbus sailed from Cadiz, on hisfourth voyage, on May 9, 1502, with four cara¬vels and 150 men, in search of a passage tothe East Indies near the Isthmus of Darien,which should supersede that of Vasco de Gama.Being denied relief and even shelter at SantoDomingo, he was swept away by the currentsto the NW. ; he, however, missed Yucatanand Mexico, and at last reached Truxillo,j whence he coasted Honduras, the Mosquito-Shore, Casta Rica, Veragua, as far as the pointwhich he called El Retrete, where the recentwestward coasting of Bastides had terminated.But here, on the 5th of December, he gave uphis splendid vision, and yielded to the clamor¬ous outbreakings of his crews to return insearch of gold to Veragua, a country which hehimself mistook for the Aurea Chersonesus ofthe ancients.The fierce resistance of the natives and thecrazy state of his ships forced him, at the closeof April 1503, to make the test of his way forHis paniola, with only two crowded wrecks,which, being incapable of keeping the sea,came, on the 24th day of June, to anchor atJamaica. After famine and despair had occa¬sioned a series of mutinies and disasters fargreater than any that he had yet experienced,he at last arrived, on the 13th of August, atSanto Domingo. Here he exhausted his fundsin relieving his crews, extending his generosityeven to those who had been most outrageous.Sailing homewards on the 12th of September,he anchored his tempest-tossed and shatteredbark at San Lucar, November 7, 1504. FromSan Ducar he proceeded to Sevilla, where he18niSTCmY OF CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS.'soon after received the news of the death of hispatroness, Isabella. He was detained by ill¬ness till the spring of 1505, when he arrived,wearied and exhausted, at Segovia, to haveonly another courtly denial of redress, and tolinger a year longer in neglect, poverty, andpain, till death gave him relief at Valladolid,on the 20th of May 1506, in the 59th year ofhis age. He died with a composure of mindsuited to the magnanimity which distinguishedhis character, and with sentiments of piety be¬coming the sincere respect for religion whichhe manifested in every occurrence of his life.He was grave though courteous in his deport¬ment, circumspect in his words and actions, ir¬reproachable in his morals, and exemplary inhis religious duties. The king was so just tohis memory, notwithstanding his ingratitudeduring his life, that he buried him magnificent¬ly in the Cathedral of Seville, and erected atomb over him with the following inscription :A Castilla y a LeonNuevo mundo dio Colon ;the meaning of which is—Columbus has givena New World to Castile and Leon.Although Sebastian Cabot, in the service ofHenry VII. of England, discovered Newfound¬land and Labrador in June 1497, and Colum¬bus did not touch the American continent tillhe visited the coast of Paria in August 1498,Columbus, however, first reached Guanahani,and what may properly be denominated theColumbian Archipelago, and was really the dis¬coverer of the New World.The voyage of one Antonio Sanchez from theHISTORY OF CTIRISTOfHTER COM’MP.L'fl. ISl Canaries to Hayti in 148-t, mentioned by the! Inca Garcilaso and some other Spanish writers,is regarded as a fable. The accounts, however,of Spaniards and Portuguese who had sailedI westward so far as to perceive indications of: land, were useful to Columbus, according to hisi own avowal. Ferdinand and Isabella, in awritten declaration of the 4th of August 1494,ascribe the new discoveries to Columbus.It is only necessary to add, that, among theother adventurers to the New World in pursuit: of gold, was Americus Vespucius, a Florentinegentleman, whom Ferdinand had appointed todraw sea-charts, and to whom he had given thename of chief pilot. This man, as a pilot, ac-li tompanied Ojeda, an enterprising Spanish gen-! tleman, to America ; and having, with muchI &rt, and some degree of elegance, drawn up antuntising history of his voyage, he published itto the world. It was circulated rapidly, andwas read with admiration. In his narrative, hehad insinuated that the glory of having firstI discovered the continent in the New Worldbelonged to him. This was in part believed,and the country began to be called after thename of its supposed first discoverer. The un¬accountable caprice of mankind has perpetuat¬ed the error; so that now, by the universalconsent of all nations, this new quarter of theworld is called AMERICA. Thus, the name1 of Americus has supplanted that of Columbus;and mankind are left to regret an act of injus¬tice, which, having been sanctioned by time,they can never redress.I America is universally allowed to be the largestquarter or grand division of the globe, and is20 AMERICA BOUNDARIES!, EXTENT, &C.supposed to be surrounded on all sides by theocean, stretching in an extensive range throughevery inhabited latitude in the world. It mayconvey a general idea of its situation, with re¬gard to Europe, to say, that New Britain liesnearly parallel with Great Britain ; that New¬foundland, the Bay of St Lawrence, and CapeBreton, lie opposite to France ; Nova Scotiaand New England are on a parallel with theBay of Biscay ; and New York and Pennsyl¬vania are opposite to Spain and Portugal.This vast continent is washed by the twogreat oceans ; being bounded on the E. by theAtlantic, which divides it from Europe andAfrica; and on the W. by the Pacific, or GreatSouth Sea, which separates it from Asia. Itextends from Cape Horn, its most southern ex¬tremity, in latitude 56° S. to the North Pole;and spreads between the 40th degree E. andthe 100th W. longitude from Philadelphia;and from the 35th to the 136th degree W. lon¬gitude from London. It is nearly 10,000 milesin length from N. to S. Its average breadth,from E. to W., is about 1400 or 1500 miles;but at its broadest part it measures 3690 miles.This extensive continent lies between the Pa¬cific Ocean on the W., and the Atlantic on theE. It is said to contain upwards of 14,000,000square miles.As America lies in both hemispheres, it pos¬sesses all the varieties of soil, climate, and pro¬ductions, which the earth affords. It stretchesthrough all the five zones, and has two sum¬mers as well as two winters in the year. Themost remarkable difference between the Newand Old World, is the general predominanceof cold throughout the whole extent of A me-21AMERICA CLIMATE, SOIL, &TC.rica, for which various causes have been as¬signed. The following is the opinion of thelate learned Dr Robertson on this subject:—“ Though the utmost extent of America to¬wards the north be not yet discovered, weknow that it advances nearer to the pole thaneither Europe or Asia. The latter have largeseas to the north, wdiich are open during partof the year ; and, even when covered with ice,the wind that blows over them is less intenselycold than that which blows over land in thesame latitudes. But, in America, the landstretches from the river St Lawrence towardsthe pole, and spreads out immensely to thewest. A chain of enormous mountains, cover¬ed with snow and ice, runs through all thisdreary region. The wind, passing over suchan extent of high and frozen land, becomes soimpregnated with cold, that it acquires a pierc¬ing keenness, which it retains in its progressthrough warmer climates ; and is not entirelymitigated, until it reaches the Gulf of Mexico.Over all the continent of North America, anorth-westerly wind and excessive cold aresynonymous terms.—Even in the most sultryweather, the moment that the wind veers tothat quarter, its penetrating influence is felt ina transition from heat to cold no less violentthan sudden. To this powerful cause we mayascribe the extraordinary dominion of cold, andits violent inroads into the southern provincesin that part of the globe. Other causes, noless remarkable, diminish the active power ofheat in those parts of the American continentwhich lie between the tropics. In all that por¬tion of the globe, the wind blows in an invaria¬ble direction from E. to W. As this wind£2AMEHTCA CLIMATE, SOIL, &C.holds its coarse along the ancient continent, itarrives at the countries which stretch along thewestern shore of Africa, inflamed with all thefiery particles which it hath collected from thesultry plains of Asia, and the burning sands inthe African deserts. The coast of Africa isaccordingly the region of the earth which feelsthe most fervent heat, and is exposed to theunmitigated ardour of the torrid zone. Butthis same wind, which brings such an accessionof warmth to the countries lying between theriver of Senegal and Caffraria, traverses theAtlantic Ocean before it reaches the Americanshore. It is cooled in its passage over thisvast body of water ; and is felt as a refresh¬ing gale along the coasts of Brazil and Guiana,rendering those countries, though amongst thewarmest in America, temperate, when com¬pared with those which lie opposite to them inAfrica. As this wind advances in its courseacross America, it meets with immense plainscovered with impenetrable forests ; or occupiedby large rivers, marshes, and stagnating waters,where it can recover no considerable degree ofheat. At length, it arrives at the Andes, whichrun from N. to S. through the whole continent.In passing over their elevated and frozen sum¬mits, it is so thoroughly cooled, that the greaterpart of the countries beyond them hardly feelthe ardour to which they seem exposed by theirsituation. In the other provinces of America,from Terra Firma westward to the MexicanEmpire, the heat of the climate is tempered,in some places, by the elevation of the landabove the sea ; in others, by their extraordi¬nary humidity; and in all, by the enormousmountains scattered over this tract. The ; tAMERICA1 CLIMATE, SOIL, &C. 2oislands of America, in the torrid zone, areeither small or mountainous, and are fannedalternately by refreshing sea and land breezes.The causes of the extraordinary cold towardsthe southern limits of America, and in the seasbeyond it, cannot be ascertained in a mannerequally satisfying. The most obvious and pro¬bable cause of this superior degree of cold to¬wards the southern extremity of America,seems to be the form of the continent there.Its breadth gradually decreases as it stretchesfrom St Antonio southwards, and from theBay of St Julian to the Straits of Magellan,its dimensions are much contracted. From itssouthern point, it is probable that an open seastretches to the antarctic pole. In whicheverof these directions the wind blows, it is cooledbefore it approaches the Magellanic regions,by passing over a vast body of water ; nor isthe land there of such extent, that it can re¬cover any considerable degree of heat in itsprogress over it. These circumstances concurin rendering the temperature of the air in thisdistrict of America, more similar to that of aninsular than to that of a continental climate ;and hinder it from acquiring the same degreeof summer heat, with places in Europe andAsia, in a corresponding northern latitude.The north wind is the only one that reachesthis part of America, after blowing over a greatcontinent. But, from an attentive survey ofits position, this will be found to have a ten¬dency rather to diminish than augment thedegree of heat. The southern extremity ofAmerica is properly the termination of theimmense ridge of the Andes, which stretchesnearly in a direct line from north to south,24AMERICA CLIMATE, SOIL, &C.through the whole extent of the continent.The most sultry regions in South America,Guiana, Brazil, Paraguay, and Tucuman, liemany degrees to the east of the Magellanicregions.—The level country of Peru, whichenjoys the tropical heats, is situated consider¬ably to the west of them. The north wind,then, though it blows over land, does not bring,to the southern extremity of America, an in¬crease of heat, collected in its passage overtorrid regions ; but, before it arrives there, itmust have swept along the summit of theAndes, and come impregnated with the coldof that frozen region.” Another peculiarity inthe climate of America, is its excessive mois¬ture. In some places, indeed, on the westerncoast, rain is not known ; but, in all otherparts, the moistness of the climate is as re¬markable as the cold. The most prevalentcause is the vast quantity of water in the At¬lantic and Pacific Oceans, with which Americais environed on all sides. Hence, those placeswhere the continent is narrowest are delugedwith almost perpetual rains, accompanied withviolent thunder and lightning, by which someof them, particularly Porto Bello, are renderedin a manner uninhabitable. This extreme jmoisture of the American climate is produc¬tive of much larger rivers there than in any !other part of the world. The Danube, theNile, the Indus, or the Ganges, are not com¬parable to the Mississippi, the river St Law- irence, or that of the Amazons ; nor are such Ilakes to be found any where as those which jNorth America affords. To the same cause we jascribe the excessive luxuriance of all kinds of [vegetables in almost all parts of this country.