71 M'OF SCOTLAND )^D(NRUBCty--^TRAGICAL HISTORYFANE ARNOLD.COMMONLY CALLEDCRAZY JANE;MR. HENRY PERCEVAL;GIVING AN ACCOUNT OPIHEIR BIRTH, PARENTAGE, COURTSHIP,AND MELANCHOLY END.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.ir : ..t, ''* «U - •'• <*WW ■ ' (jawt-.a-c " •'i wv • V‘ • <' « •bviv j FJ1 JS ..!. f ■ OOKfe- rtiu.at i iervvijojA;▼ >D >>. . ’»•, ' •jiibib inKj •}.'. rnvj ■ 001 xphu.'CUXY.V TV OK»{ u '41 v . ■r*T>c }< ’/ . : = :• Qrr oyTx vrr : ■ ..• ■IBV^JCVX lllf: )FXHISTORYOfCRAZY JANE.his unfortunate beauty, whose wanderings ofaagination, through an ill-fated attachment, hadined her the appellation of Crazy Jane, was thei iiungest daughter of Mr Arnold, a substantialrmer in Wiltshire, lie had four children byargaretta, his excellent wife, who was still living;ifubin, Lucy, Aimetta, and the lovely Jane, who,!om her earliest childhood, was remarkable for)r superior beauty, and elegance of her person ;id justly bore away the palm of admiration from>r juvenile companions. Her long hair, whichas naturally formed inf0 the most beauteous; -esses, was of the lightest brown ; her eyes wereif the deepest blue, and at each glance shot forthi radiant lustre beaming with expressions. Sheas tall, slender, and exquisitely formed. Heros were coral, and her skin the unsullied moun-; in snow. Her voice was melodiously sweet; andi innocent, artless gaiety, displayed itself in all: ?r actions. Such was Jane at the age of seven-ften. As yet her heart was free from the en-roving power of love. Her beauty had, indeed,attracted many suitors, but none of them had'iHcceeded in gaining the affections of the youthfultiaid. Lubin, her only brother, was in his twenty-•furtli year, and was as much endowed with^asculine, as his sister was with feminine beauty,oucy and Annetta might both be entitled to theImomi nation of pretty agreeable girls, but upi trther.. I About two miles distant from farmer Arnold,4resided a Mr. Percival, who having been many :years a woollen-draper in the city of London, hadaccumulated a decent fortune, and retired, withhis daughter Itosetta, who, after her mother’sdeath had been his house-keeper, to the pleasantvillage of Rosewood, where they inhabited a smallthough neat mansion, built in the cottage style,and surrounded by a beauteous garden, boundedon the western side by a luxuriant orchard, and onthe eastern by a meandering rivulet, which flowedin gentle murmurs ; while the distant clacking ofthe mill, and a deep sounding water-fall, added tothe rural beauties of the scene.Next to the fair Jane, Rosetta was esteemed thehandsoiriest girl in that part of the country. She iwas in her ninteenth year, and her truly amiable ;manners soon gained her the esteem of the sur-rounding* families, and, amongst the rest, farmerArnold’s. Rosetta admired all the sisters, butparticularly attached herself to Jane. Their sen¬timents were congenial, and their chief happiness :seemed to be in each other’s society. Often, withthe permission of her parents, Jane would repairto Mr. Percival’s, and reside with her dear Rosetta 'for three or four days at a time. Together theywould wander through the mazes of the adjacentwood, gathering wild flowers or fruit, or visit thecottages of the poor neighbours, and relieve theirwants as far as their own ability would allow.Often as they roved, arm in arm, their discoursewould tt*v i on Henry, Rosetta’s brother, whom shetenderly loved, and sincerely regretted his absence.On iheir departure from London, Henry hadrefused to accompany his father and sister toRosewood, but accepted an advantageous offerwhich was made to him by a merchant who was5! listantly related to the family, to remain with himn the capacity of his head clerk, which was a| rery lucrative employment. Mr. Percival and hisi laughter had now been in Wiltshire two years,i wid as yet had received no visit from Henry, whomlis sister represented as one of the finest youths of| he age, both in mental and personal accomplish-i pent*).Z' One morning Jane was agreeably surprised by af i ery early and unexpected visit from Rosetta.I,Iier young friend produced a letter which she hadleceived late the preceding night. It was fromajlenry, and announced the pleasing intelligence,fthat he would be at Rosewood on the followingnMonday, where he meant to remain some time.*|lis visit, he informed them, was owing to hislegation’s sudden determination of quitting Eng-xnd for the West Indies, in order to make a per-nal investigation of his property ; and thitherjhe youth felt no inclination to accompany him,ut resolved to repair to Rosewood, and remainme time with his father previous to his formingnew settlement for himself.As soon as Rosetta had imparted the contents of;ie letter, she intreated Mr. Arnold to permit hisiree daughters to visit her on the day appointed>r Henry’s arrival, as her father intended to makea kind of a festival. The farmer readily acqui-oijsced, and it was agreed that the fair ones shouldepair to Rosewood at an early hour of the fore-oon, and that Lubin should join the gay party atIf he commencement of the evening, share in theirSleasures, and escort his sisters home. Rosettahen departed ; and the intervening time was spentj>y Farmer Arnold’s daughters in preparing allueheir village finery for the occasion. Monday6arrived, and with it a serious disappointment.,Annette was seized with a sudden indisposition,,and the attendance of Lucy was necessary. But,,in compliance with the desire of Iter parents, Jane'kept her appointment, as they were unwilling todeprive Rosetta of the company of her friend.She was dressed in a white robe, and a straw hat,ornamented with a wreath of fancy flowers, wasitied under her chin by a lilac ribbon. Passing’through a grove in her way to Mr. Percival’s, shewas overtaken by a young gentleman of the most,prepossessing appearance, who inquired of her theway to Rosewood. She immediately informedhim, and a few moments’ conversation made itknown that he was Henry Percival who addressedher. Tempted by the fineness of the morning, hehad discharged his chaise at the last town, andleaving his luggage at the inn, proceeded on foot.Pleased with the society of each other, Henryand Jane proceeded on, arm in arm, to Rosewood,where they were affectionately welcomed by Mr.Percival and Rosetta, who had from the windows ofthe parlour beheld the approach of the youthful pair.The return of Henry to his family was celebratedwith the utmost festivity. The company assembledon the occasion were plentifully regaled ; and theyoung people danced on the grass-plot that adornedthe front of Mr. Percival’s dwelling. Rosettawas Lubin’s partner, and Jane was Henry’s. Neverdid four persons appear so superlatively happy;joy beamed in their eyes, and the glow of delightflushed on thole cheeks. When the hour of separa¬tion arrived, young Percival insisted on accom*panyiug, alledging that, as the hour was very late,her brother’s protection might not be sufficient toensure the safety of the gentle maid.711 From the sprightly gaiety of Henry, which£,timed to flow spontaneously from a pure unso-} Msticated heart, no one around him had suspectedr ie traits of rice that lay lurking in his breast,f lis person and behaviour were formed to captivate,id he rarely failed to excite either friendship, ore more ardent passion, love, in those objectstat h« laboured to inspire with them.i I His being Jane’s escort introduced him to Mr.ei,mold and his wife, who, pleased with the man¬ias of their new visitor, and in consideration ofa |* being the brother of their dear Rosetta, gavem a general invitation to the farm, which hoIfgeriy embraced ; and availed himself of everyMiiportanity that offered, to he in company withlip innocent Jane, and whisper in her ears softlifws of love, and declare an affection never to end•jit with life. The heart of the youthful maidi is not proof against the seducive powers of hisUfigue. Henry soon gained the entire possessionat her affections ; nor was he long ignorant of heriiatiments in his favour. . The pleasing confirma-,n, instead of inspiring him with the wish ofailing her his own by indissoluble ties, and sharingith her the inestimable blessings of domesticittcity, only prompted him to proceed in a basegn he had formed against her honour, even atir first interview. A base ambition firedry’s soul. Not content with the handsomepetency which he would eventually derivem his father, and a genteel subsistence that heuld earn himself, he had pre-determined never,marry, unless he could meet with some womanh an independent fortune in her own hands,eed, for no other purpose than gaining such an.1 would he ever have bestowed a thought on8imarriage, but always treated the mention of t'sacred ceremony with unhallowed ridicule,yet, no fair one, calculated to gratify his avaricioipassions, had fallen in his way, but many a hapleifair one had become the victim of his seducive a:The beauty of the interesting Jane, and thepositions of herself and family, who, virtuousbenevolent in themselves, suspected no guileothers, appeared to this monster of deceit as a f;opportunity to accomplish his huso iesign,luring her from a peaceful home.This depraved youth felt no difficulty in psuading Jane that his father would be averse tomarriage with one who had so small a portioAlas! this he knew to be a false assertion, for MPercival would have very readily consented,great was his opinion of farmer Arnold’s daughterto have received any one of them into his familbut more especially Jane, who had ever beengreat favourite with the old gentleman.—Eveione beheld a strong partiality between Henry arJane, and concluded that it would lead to a lastiiattachment; but none, not even llosetta, or tljbrother and sisters of the maiden, even supposethat their intercourse had proceeded to suchlength. Every night, when the rest of farmeArnold’s family had retired to repose, Jane stolfrom her chamber to meet her lover in the groveand wander whole hours, guided by Cynthia’s refleeted light; Henry breathed all the vows of aimpassioned lover, and Jane listened with deligl,Eor some months did the dear delusion last; anthe breast of Jane was the abode of love, innocenceand hope, till one fatal hour, when the guardia.angel of virtue slept, and the demon of vice reignetriumphant, the ill-fated Jane surrendered he “I,9lyirtuo to importunities of the deceitful Henry, and©id adieu to peace for ever—till she sank withinIhe narrow confines of the grave. Ah! ye fairlaughters of the earth! nature’s choicest work ilid you rightly consider the pre-eminence of virtue,md your own conscious dignity, how few, if any,vould depart from the path pointed out by recti-;ude, religion, and honour!| At the next interview that took place betweenHenry and our unfortunate maiden, after the fatalHumph of the former, her swollen eyes and alteredountenance declared the poignancy of her feelings,3nd that remorse had already taken possession ofier soul. Henry exerted all his eloquence toothe her griefs ; even his callous heart receivedpang at her altered appearance. His argumentsnewed her smiles ; and he promised to repair toLondon in a few weeks, and seek for a situation inme commercial house, that should enable him to' Maintain his beloved Jane, in case his fatherould be offended at their marriage, the solem-ization of which was to take place at Henry’sturn to Rosewood. With such fallacious pro-ises as these did he ensnare the youthful victim|f credulity to further guilt, and lull the keennessIf that sorrow he could not wholly dissipate.Just at this period Lubin Arnold made ratheridden overtures to Mr. Percival for the hand of: losetta ; the declaration of his love being hastenedy the knowledge that Squire Swinford had maderoposals highly advantageous to her. Mr. Per-; val resolved to decide the question by his daugh-‘ r’s choice ; the prospects of accumulating richesould not dazzle for a moment his understanding.Ilosetta did not hesitate to declare her affection foriubin, and an early day was appointed for their10nuptials. The wedding was kept at Mr. Arnold’s,wh6 gave the entertainment in the true stylo ofEnglish hospitality, and his daughters exerted,themselves iu welcoming their new sister to herfuture abode. It was agreed that Lubin, being inpartnership with his father, with his bride, shouldreside at the farm ; and that Lucy should take;upon herself the charge of Mr. Percival’s domestic:affairs, and reside at Rosewood.The happiness of Rosetta, and the modest cheer¬fulness that displayed itself in her very look during'the nuptial feast, gave many a bitter pang to theheart of lovely Jane.—Not that she wished to seeher friend less happy, or indulged the banefulpassion of envy ; no, but it made her feel thehorrors of her own situation. Instead of a joyousbride, surrounded by approving friends, she was amiserable dependent on the honour of a man, ofwhose veracity she had of late strong and painfuldoubts. In the course of the evening Jane foundan opportunity of conversing unobserved withHenry, and repose her griefs iu his bosom. Howpowerful is the language of persuasion from the lipsof those we love! The youth called heaven towitness, that she was more dear to him than hisown life ; and that he would sooner suffer themost agonizing tortures that invention could de¬vise, or cruelty inflict, than allow the idol of hisheart to become the theme of babbling tongues.In short, Jane felt a conviction that she hadwronged her lover by her suspicions of his faith,and was eager to obtain his pardon for an offencethat she blamed herself in committing againsttheir mutual love. Ere they returned to the com¬pany, Jane reminded Henry that she thought thealliance that had taken place in their two familiesllliwould remote the bar to their own union, as shecould not suppose Mr. Percival would raise anyobjections to it, after he had so readily consentedto join the hands of Lubiri and Kosctta. Masteras Henry was of dissimulation, yet this reasonablesuggestion of the fair victim of his deceit, staggeredhim; he was, what rarely occurred to him, at aloss for an answer. At length he stammered fortha few sentences, almost incoherent, from his agita¬tion—that he would inform his father of theirattachment, if Ins dear Jane insisted on such asacrifice, which he knew would be attended withfatal consequences to his future prospects. “ Con¬sider that Lubin’s situation and property are farsuperior to my sister’s ; he did not object to thealliance of the Arnold’s with his daughter, but oldage, my best love, will be avaricious, and he hasfar higher views for his son.” “Which he willdoubtless,” replied Jane, the tears starting fromher expressive eyes, “comply with, and sacrificehis love to filial duty.” Henry appeared hurt atthis suggestion, but in a few moments, recoveringhimself to his usual placidity, he strove to giveconfidence and composure to the breast of Jane,and at this time succeeded. At a late hour thecompany separated, to the extreme relief of Jane,who was anxious to retire to the solitude of thechamber, and commune with her own thoughts.Of Henry’s conduct she knew not what to think.She loved him, sincerely loved him, and she fearedto lose him by ill-timed expressions of dissatisfac¬tions or doubt; yet she knew herself to be in asituation that, ere long, must proclaim to the gazeof every beholder, her loss of honour. This pre¬cluded delay added poignancy to her woes. Atthis moment she was miserable. Then she re-fleeted on the oaths and protestations of Henry ; ,his kind assurances at their last interview on whichhe called on every holy power to witness his faithto her his chosen wife ; and defied the malice ofthe whole world to part them. Thus in fluctuating ] jhope and fear, the hapless girl passed away her i ftmelancholy hour till the first dawn of the grey-eyedmorn was announced by the shrill clarion olChanticleer. Recollection flashed on her mind;she chided herself for giving way to such sorrowful |retrospections ; and, fearful of being discovered byany of the family not yet undressed, she hastily J ljdivested herself of her apparel, and retired to bed. 1 <Worn out by the fatigue of the preceding day, andthe sorrows of her heart, she soon fell into a heavyslumber.—But sleep did not calm the passions ofher mind ; her dreams were horrific. One timeshe was hurled from a precipice, then dashed into 4the foaming and tempestuous ocean, and sinking j,amidst the billows, calling in vain to Henry foraid. She awoke, overwhelmed with terror. Itwas not yet time to rise—again she slept; againthe ocean presented itself to her view ; a swift ];sailing vessel appeared almost to fly before thewind ; Henry was on the deck, his bosom stream¬ing with gore, from a self-inflicted wound, as ! j,appeared by a poignard that he grasped in his !right hand. Borne by an invincible guide, sheflew towards him. A sudden storm arose ; the rship was furiously combated by the elements.Henry gave a deep groan, and expired in her arms. >The vessel now appeared to sink rapidly, and thehorrors of death were around her. Just at themoment of this painful visionary trouble, her sisterAnnette entered the chamber, and awoke the ! usleeping sufferer. But she was too much indis- ;13((posed to rise, and readily acquiesced in her sister’si! desire of remaining in her bed.Jane did not rise till the evening. Nor would3 i she then have left her chamber, only to keep herj appointment with Henry, whom she had promisedto meet at the usual spot in the well known grove,i In vain Annette persuaded her not to leave thejo house: Jane persisted that a walk would be of•I service to her, and obtained her sister’s promise3'mot to mention her absence to her parents; andia then hastened to the place where her perfidious■ lover was waiting. Henry, with seeming affection,h iembraced her ; and then imparted his intention of'{.leaving Rosewood, and repairing to the metropolisoithe next day. Jane, in tremulous accents, in-fij|quired the motive which led to such a suddeneparture. He informed her, that he had thatay received a letter from the metropolis, in whichis friend had stated, that there was a post under»i«government which produced a considerable annuity,fiithat he had no doubt, if he was present, of pro-iicuring for him. “ Then,” continued Henry, “ ifsucceed, I shall no longer be dependent on myather ; and our marriage will take place immedi-tely on my return, which I promise, my dearane, shall be within the next three weeks.”Jane was affected at the thoughts of parting; yethe solemn promises of her lover eased her mind ofn oppressive burthen, and her tears were mingledwith emotions of joy and grief. It was long ereither of them had fortitude to pronounce thesmall, but much important word, Adieu. Henry■ accompanied Jane to the end of the grove, anda lien left her—for ever!1 He pursued his journey to London, where, honformed - his father and sister, he was going to14receive seme money, which a gentleman, to whornhe had lent it about a twelvemonth before, had *'■remitted to las banker. The time for Henry’s! 1return passed, yet the youth came not. Jane’s 1anguish was insupportable; her family was alarmedat her squallid looks. She was ill; she pleaded ; !lHow could she overwhelm her aged parents withanguish, and bring a stain on a family whose ^virtue had been their boast ? A letter came by '■the post to Mr. Percival; its contents were like a ■thunder-clap to the old gentleman, Henry had 1embarked for the West Indies. The youth en- !treated his pardon, but assured him, that circum-stances of an unpleasant nature, which he could }not then explain, had obliged him to leave England, •and retire to his relation abroad.What Henry could not explain, was soon ex- “plained for him. Lucy too abruptly communicatedthe intelligence at the farm, and in the presence -tof the unfortunate Jane.—Violent hysterics seized >on her fragile form; an abortion succeeded. In ;frantic accents she confessed her guilt. Whatwere the feelings of Arnold and his asred Mar- 1garetta!—They tore their hair, and wept with ibitterness of soul. But they did not upbraid theirhapless daughter, they would not add to hermisery. Great were their sufferings. They triedto calm her mind, and spoke the language of peace 'and comfort to the mourner; their efforts succeeded,and she fell into a calm slumber. At a late hour *the family retired to their slumbers, all hutRosetta, who watched by the bed-side of hermuisposition ; ana to her own iamuy she expres her fears that Henry was false to his vows. Yet IPthey knew not the extent of her misery ; she would Jsooner have died than related her loss of innocence. !115beloved Jane, who still slept in apparent composure.About four in the morning Rosetta reclined herhead on the back of her chair, and fell asleep. Inless than an hour she was awoke bj hearing someh footsteps hastily descending the stairs. She rosei and approached the bed to look if her Jane’safflictions were still banished by the influence of1 Morpheus. She was gone! Rosetta looked around ;it wras evident that she had risen and dressed her-i'i self. Terrified beyond description, Rosetta has-1 tened to the chamber where her husband slept,and entreated him to join with her in the pursuitof Jane. Lubin instantly thought of the grovewhere he had oft seen her walking with the faith¬less Hemw.—Thither they ran as fast as theirfears would allow, and found the object of theirsearch stretched on the cold ground, and making apiteous moan. Lubin raised and supported her iniihis arms, while he joined with Rosetta in callingher by the most endearing appellations. As theyled her home they endeavoured to inspire her withfortitude and resignation. She answered only withheavy sighs, and some vague sentences. Alas!their gentle cares were vain, Reason had fled her| brain ; a melancholy despondence reigned there ;land an oblivion of every transaction but the source|of her own irremediable woes. In vain were the! physicians, and all their medical attendants, sum-i moned ; human skill was vain. Jane was doomedto linger out her existence a hapless maniac. Shewas perfectly harmless and tractable; and for! 'whole days would wander in those places where shei;i;had been used to walk with Henry. She wouldising the most plaintive airs, and converse withithose who addressed her about him. From thevillagers she gained the appelation of Crazy Jane ;1Gand this title soon became familiar to her own ears.,'Regularly at the close of the day she returned toiher father’s house ; seldom she noticed any one in, .it, but retired to a small chamber that was entirely 'appropriated to her own use. Jane continued inthis state above two years without any alteration,in her mind, but a very alarming one in her person.She was now reduced to a mere shadow of her' ■'former self; her eyes no longer sparkled withbrilliancy ; her lips were robbed of the coral hue, „and her cheeks assumed an ashy paleness.One morning, instead of lying till a late hour, ,which for some months back had been her custom, i'and then repairing with her solitary meal to thegrove, she joined the family at their breakfasttable, and conversed on several subjects more jrationally than she had done since the first day ofher derangement. As soon as their repast was !ended, Jane arose, and affectionately embracedevery individual of the family, particularly hermother and Rosetta. They were extremely affected, 1and prayed with fervour that heaven would be "pleased to restore the sense of the fair maniac..They then separated to perform their severaldomestic duties, and Jane hastened to her usualhaunts, taking with her a little basket of pro-1visions, which her tender mother always prepared *ready to put in her hand ; or poor Jane would ,‘never have thought of food till assailed by thecalls of hunger. When evening arrived, and above |an hour was spent in momentary expectation ofher return, the family became greatly alarmed,and Lubin and his mother went forth to seek her. |They were not many paces from the house, whenthey perceived a group of villagers approaching '■towards them bearing a corpse. Alas! it was "13 line’s! They had found her as they were passing■ i>rough the grove on their return from their work,! ring on the turf inanimate. She was cold, andfo had left her fair form for ever. Her rightc irnid reclined on her breast, and in her left was|jasped a locket which contained a fragment ofa jenry’s hair, which he had given her on the day' f Rosetta’s nuptials.i J What a sight for a parent! Margaretta felt itj its full force, and fainted by the side of herimparted daughter. It was some minutes ere theyi uld recover her from her swoon ; and Lubin with: jfficulty led her back to the house, while the vil-jtigers continued to bear their hapless burden afterj e afflicted parent. The grief of the Arnoldiimily could only be equalled by that of the agedtercival. He had wrote several letters to India,t received no answer, either from Henry or hisation. The sorrows of Jane deeply afflicted; he despised the cruelty and injustice of Henry,d had frequently declared to the good farmer,,t, had his son requested his consent to marrybeauteous Jane, he would have given it withfeigned transport.On the fourth day after her decease, her funeral>k place in the village churchyard. The cofflns borne by young maidens in white robes, andtheir heads they wore chaplets of cypress. Mr.rcival and the weeping relations of Jane closedmournful procession. There was not a dry eyenong the villagers. The deep-tolling knell wascompanied by sighs and heart-felt groans ; while3 aged parents, as the funeral passed their doors,ill their sons beware of the fatal crime of seducing'.ulous innocence ; and their daughters avoidfate of the broken-hearted Jane, by scorning18the villain who would dare to make them a dis¬honourable proposal.—The remains of Crazy Janewere deposited under the shade of an aged yew;and on a rough hewn stone was placed the following j,artless epitaph :•—Traveller, stop ! whoe’er thou art.Shed a tear ere thou depart ;For here releas’d from care and pain,Lies love’s sad victim, Ckazy Jans.A few short weeks from the death of tho un- •fortunate Jane, saw the remains of Mr. Percival ..and the woe-worn Margaretta committed to their inative dust. The former, by his will, had disin¬herited his son. He bequeathed considerablelegacies to farmer Arnold and his two surviving ,daughters, Lucy and Annetta. The rest of hrs uproperty, which was very considerable, he awardedto Rosetta and her affectionate husband.Mr. Percival had not long departed from thistransitory world, when, to the great surprise ofthe inhabitants, Henry arrived at Rosewood jpale and emaciated, a living skeleton. The first sintimation he received of the death of Jane andhis father, was from the mistress of the Inn ; andthe intelligence seemed greatly to affect him. .With a palpitating heart he repaired to the farm ;and prostrating himself at Mr. Arnold’s feet, be¬sought him to pardon the seducer and murderer ofhis daughter, who was impatient to join her in thesilent grave. The anger and indignation that the iold gentleman felt at the first appearance of Per¬cival, soon gave way to pity. After their first Ifemotion had subsided, and they were tranquilenough to converse, Mr. Arnold learnt from Henry,that for a length of time after ho had arrived in r19m India, he had formed the resolution of becomingif an alien to his family; his affairs were so pros-'i iperous as to render it next to an impossibility thatllie should ever want any pecuniary assistance fromi Ithem ; and for the purpose of estranging himself,■ ,he never answered any of the letters he receivedt ifroia bhigland—indeed, the reproaches with whichi (those from his father and Rosetta were filled, andwhich ho did not know how to defend, made himadhere more and more strictly to the plan he hadUmarked out for himself. But at length remorsehiseixed on his soul. The image of Jane hauntedt his nightly dreams and his waking thoughts; hisI ibehaviour to her and his aged father, now appearedtto him in the most culpable light; he became a^(sincere penitent, and resolved to return to Englandiiand make what reparation was in his power too|,those he had so deeply wronged. About a fort-dnight after he had embarked on his homeward■Spassage, as he was standing one evening on thejfdeck, absorbed in his own reflections, a femaleigure glided by him, and pronounced his name ini awe-inspiring voice; he started and lookedround; the figure stood at some distance fromi jhim. It was Jane! Again she repeated his name,i'Bind, with a heavy sigh, vanished from his view!■if The hour that this event occurred was explained ;•hinnd Mr. Arnold had every reason to suppose that, it was the one in which the hapless fair one died,l is it was on the same clay in which she was founda lifeless corpse in her much loved grove.The loss of his father’s fortune did not in theeast affect the youth ; nor would he accept thati part of it which Mr. Arnold, and the husband olRosetta, generously offered him. No, money liei valued not. The death of Jane, through hisj.<3,;20cruelty, lay heavy at his heart; also his father’sdying in displeasure with him. He frequentlydeclared that he had brought with him more moneythan would last the remaining term of his life.He hired a small cottage in the vicinity of Rose¬wood, where he resided in a manner not farremoved from the life of a hermit. Every nightat the drear hour of twelve, he wandered round amoss-grown tower where the ghost of Crazy Janewas said to appear, and tell to the moon a tale ofwoe. After pursuing this course of life for severalmonths, Henry imbibed a dangerous melancholy,that prompted him to commit the dreadful act ofsuicide. On the grave of his Jane, the youth shedhis heart’s blood, and rushed unbidden into thepresence of his Maker. The Coroner and his Jurydeclared him a maniac ; and he was buried beneaththe same yew that hung over the remains of thefair but ill-fated heroine of our tale !Behold the melancholy end of this once innocenthappy pair! Who could have anticipated a sor¬rowful conclusion to the joyous and affectionateattachment formed at Rosewood ? None. Butthis may be principally ascribed to the ambitiousviews and depraved character of Henry; andpartly to the fond credulity of the fair but unfor¬tunate Jane. It is sincerely hoped, that all intowhose hands this very interesting and affectingpamphlet may come, especially the youthful gene¬ration of both sexes, may take warning from theuntimely and miserable fate of this unhappy Couple,and avoid the dangerous rocks on which they split;for assuredly the same causes will naturally lead tothe same bad, or even worse ends.I21ANECDOTES.JONATHAN’S HUNTING EXCURSION.“ Did you ever hear of the scrape that I and[j Uncle Zekiel had duckin’ on’t on the Connecticut?”?, asked Jonathan Timbertoes, while amusing hisH old Dutch hostess, who had agreed to entertaini il him under the roof of her log cottage, for, and inconsideration of, a bran new milk pan.“ No, I never did—do tell it,” was the reply.“ Well—you must know that I and Uncle Zeke::; took it into our heads on Saturday afternoon to goa-gunning arter ducks in father’s skilf: so in wegot and skulled down the river ; a proper sight of; ducks flew backwards and forwards, I tell ye—andt bimeby a tew of ’em lit down by the marsh, andwent to feeding on muscles. I catched up mypeauder horn to prime, and it slipped right out ofmy hand, and sunk to the bottom of the river.' The water was amazingly clear, and I could see it< on the bottom. Now I couldn’t swim a jot, so Ii sez to Uncle Zeke—‘ You’re a pretty clever fellow—jest let me take your peauder horn to prime,’1 and don’t you think the stingy critter wouldn’t.‘Well,’ says I, ‘you’re a pretty good diver, an’ ifI you dive an’ get it, I’ll give you a primin.’ Ithought he’d leave his peauder horn, but he didn’t;hut stuck it in his pocket, and down he went—andthere he staid.”Here the old lady opened her eyes with wonderI and surprise, and a pause of some moments ensued,and Jonathan added—22“ I looked down, and \vljaj; d° you think thecritter was doin’“Lord!” exclaimed the old lady, “I’m sure Idon’t know.”“There he was,” said our hero, “settin’ righton the bottom of the river, pourin’ the peaivdef outof my horn into hizen.”HOLDING ONE’S OWN.Dr. Crusty and his friend Dlinko were journey¬ing towards lake Ontario in a cab. Now Blinko,albeit he may think quito contrary, is any thingbut a handsome man, and upon this swings thepoint of our story. “It is very seldom, doctor,”said Bliuko, musing, “ it is very seldom, doctor,that the promises of your youth are realized.”“ Do you think so, Bliuko ?” inquired the doctor.—“Most distinctly I do,” was the response.“ Now, for instance, doctor,” continued Blinko,“ 1 was esteemed very ugly indeed—extremelyplain—when a child.” “You was, eh?” “Iwas.” “ Well, I think you've held your own re¬markably well l" retorted the doctor, with morethan his usual asperity.—Blinko told the coach¬man to drive faster, and opened not his mouthagain until they readied the lake.AN AMERICAN JURY.At an inquest on a drowned person, held at NewYork, there was some evidence that the deceasedhad been in a state of destitution, and thereuponone of the jurymen wished to return as Ids verdict—“ Found drowned for w<ant of necessary food!"33SWEETS OF LIBERTY.A convict escaped from prison by jumping outof a window. He came down upon the head of amolasses hogshead, which broke and let him in upto the middle. “ Faith,” said he, as he scrambledout, “ I have often heard of the swates of liberty,but I never knew what it meant before.”AN IRISH COACHMAN GAINING HISS FIRST PLACE.The master had two beautiful English horses,and he wanted a careful man to drive them; heI was a mighty pleasant gintleman, and he loved ajoke. Well, there was plenty after the place ; andthe first that went up to him, “ Now, my man,”says he, “ tell me how near the edge of a precipicewould you undertake to drive my carriage ?” Sothe boy considers, and he says, says he, “ Withina foot, plaze your honor, and no harm ” Verywell,” says he, “go down, and I’ll give ye yepanswer by-and-bye.” So the next came up, andsaid he’d be bound to carry ’em within half a foot;and the next said five inches; and another—-adandified chap jntirely—was so mighty nice, that| he would drive it within three indies and a half,I he'd go bail. Well, at last my turn came; andwhen his honor axed me how nigh I would drivehis carriage to a precipice, I says, says I, “ PlazeIyer honor, I'd Jceep as far ojf as I coidd. “ Very(■well, Misther Byrne,” says he, “you’re my coacb-ijinan,” says he. Och! the roar there was in theijkitchen when I went down and told the joke.—■24NO WISH TO INTRUDE.A few days since, a grand jury in the far west,ignored a bill against a huge negro for stealingchickens, and before discharging him from custody,the judge bade him stand reprimanded ; he coa-lconcluded as follows :—“ You may go now, John ;?but (shaking his finger at him,) let me warn younever to appear here again.” John, with delight*beaming from his big white eyes, and a broad grin,displaying a new row of beautiful ivory replied,—f“ I wouldn’t bin dis time, judge, only de constablefotch me ! ”SCENE IN A SCHOOL-ROOM.‘ ‘ What studies do you intend to pursue ?” saidan erudite pedagogue one day, as a Johnny-rawentered his school-room.—“ Why, I shall studyread, I suppose, wouldn’t ye ?”—“ Yes ; but youwill not want to read all the time ; are you well ac¬quainted with figures?”—“ It’s a pity if I ain’t,when I cyphered clean through adoption."—“ A-doption! what rule is that?”—“Why, it’s the,double rule of two ; you know that twice two is 1four ; and, according to adoption, twice four istwo!"—“You may take your seat, sir,” said theschoolmaster.—“You may take your’n too,” saidthe pupil; “ for it’s a poor rule that won’t workboth ways.”FINIS.