THEGOLDEN DAYSo rGOOD QJJ E E N BESS*TO WHICH ARE ADDED,A Sequel to th: favourite Song of good Qjkis.O Rj THEGOLDEN DAYS WE now POSSESS,J'-N’D'SYLVIA’S M’A R R I A G E.G I. A S G O V7,Prated by J, ik M* Robertforf, SaUesnr^et, i3o:v( * )The Golden Days of Good Queen Befs.TO my mufe give attention,and deem it not a myftery,If we jumble together mufic,poetry, and biftoiy:,The times {o difplay inthe days of Queen Befs, Sir,Whofe name and whofe memorypofterity may blefs, Sir.O the golden days of good Queen Befs;itterry be the memory of good Queen Befs.Then we laugh’d at the bugbearsof Dons and Armadas, JTVith their gunpowder puffs,and their bluliering bravadoes ;For we knew how to manage boththe mulfcet and the bow, Sir,i^nd cou d bring down a Spaniardju*- as eafy as a crow. Sir. O the, &c.Theft our flreets werh unpav’d-and our houfes were thatch’d, Sis*Cur Windows were lattic’d,and our doors only latch’d, Sir jYet fo few were the folks thatwould plunder and rob. Sir,tXhat the Hangman was ftarvingfor want of a job, Sir. 0 the, &c.( 3 )Then our Ladies with large ruffs tiedround about the neck faff.Would gobble up a pound ofbeef-ftakes for theirWhile a clofc quil’d-up contheir noddles juft did fit, Sir,And they trufs’d up as tight as arabbit for the fpit Sir. O'the golden, &c.’ . . r *Then jerkins, and doublets, andYellow worfted hofe. Sir,With a huge pair of whilkers,was the drefs of our beaux,Strong beer they preferredto claret, or to hock, Sir;And no poultry they priz’dlike the wing of an ox, Sir. O the, &c.Good-neighbourhood then was asplenty too as beef, Sir ;And the pooreft from the richnever wanted relief. Sir :While merry went the mill-clack,the {buttle and. the plow. Sir,And boneft people could live bythe fweet of their brow, Sir. O the, &c.Then football, and wreftling, andpitching of the bar. Sir,Wrere preterr’d to a flute, to cfiddle, or guitar. Sir:And for jaunting, *nd junkettingithe favourite legale, Sir,&CtC 4 )Was a walk as far as Chelfea,to deraolilh buns and ale, Sir. O the, &c.Then the folks ev'ry Sundaywent twice at leaf! to church. Sir,And never left the Parfon crhis fertnon in the lurch Sir ;For they judgM that the Sabbath -wasfor people to be good in ^ir ;And they thought L Sabbath-breakingif they din’d without a pudding. Sir.Then our great men were goodand our good men wejre great, Sir,And the props of the nation werethe pillars ol the flate. Sir ;.For the fovereign and the lubjeftone iritcreft luppprted.And our powerful alliance byali pow’rs then was a/urted. O the, etc#Then the High and Mighty States,to their everlahmg (tain, Sir,By Britons were .reliev’d ironx ,the galling yoke of Spain, oir ;And the rou rd BritHh Lion,had all Europe then combi a d. Sir,Undifmay'd would have fcatter’d theniflute chaft' before tne wind, Sir. O the, &c.ThuK they ate, and they drank,and they work’di and they play d, otf.Of thfeir friends were not alhamcd,nor of enemies afraid, Sir:And little, little did they think,when this ground they flood on. Sir,To be fo near drawn to the bfe,now they’re all dead and gone, Sir. &c»The Golden Da vs We now Possess.A Sequel to the favourite Song of good Q^Bcfs,IN the praife of Qu.“en BESS,lofty fongs have been fang, Sir ;And her fame has been echo’dby old and by young >ir ;But from times that are pafs’d,we’ll for once turn our eyes. Sir, ,As the times we enjoy*'tis but wifdom to prize. Sir.chorusThat whate’er were the days of good Bels,Let us praife the golden days we now pofTcfs,Without armies to combat, orarmadas to withftand, Sir,Our.foes at our feet, and the[word in our hand, Sir ;Lafting peace we fecure, whilewe’re Lords of the feas. Sir,And our flout wooden walls, areour fure guarantees, S,r.chorus.Such are the golden days we now poiTefs,Whatever were the days of good^ »efs.C 6 >No Bigots rule the roaft, now^with perfecutton dire, Sir,Burning zeal now no more heapstheiaggot on the fire. Sir :No B:(hop now can boil apoo* Jew like a Pigeon, Sir ;Nor barbacue a Pagan, like aa Kg, for Religion, Sir. Such are, &e.Now, no legendary faint, robsthe lab’rcr of one day. Sir,Except now and then, whenhe celebrates St. Monday, Sir :And good folks, ev’ry Sabbath,keep church without a pother, Sir,By walking in at one door,and dealing out at Pother, Sir. Such, &c*Then for drefs—modern Belles bear,the bell beyond compare, Sir,Though fanbiogales and ruff?, aregot rather out of wear, Sir;But when trufsM up like pullets,whether fat, lean, or plump, Sir,*Tis no matter, fo they hav« got, buta merry thought and rump, Sic. Suchj&c/Such promontaries, furs, maybe iiy’id inacctflibles,As our frnail clothes, by Prudes,are pronounc'd inrjcpfefiiblcs ;And the talle of our Beaux won'tadmit of difpute, Sir,f 7 )When they rvJe in their flippers,and walk about in boots, Sir. Such, &c.Our language is refin’d too,front what ’twas of yore. Sir,As a ihoe firing’s the dandy,and buckles quite a bore. Sir;And if rais’d from the dead,• rure pozc tbe noddle, Sir,Of 4 ^oakefpere, to tel! what’sthe Tippy or the Twaddle, Sir. &c.Then for props of the ftate,what can equal in ftory, Sir?Thofe two ftately pillars, call’da vV hig and a Tory, Sir,Though by fhifting their ground,t^ey roraetimes get fo wrong, Sir,They forget to which fide orthe houfe they belong;Sir, Such are, &c.But as props of their firea?tLand upnghtnefs may boaft. Sir,W^ft the proudeft of pillarsmay fee (hook by a pofi. Sir jMZ1 m fr.iends of f^=cloma Offings inherit. Sit,Al!f hCrA0eihc ^nc’d toT,thcP°ft ^‘ch they merit. Sir. VP fr ' tbe g°Wen days we now pcfTefLa* pa,s the boafted days of good Bcfs.rl fS thf namc of Brunfwiok, H":jls dutJ> love and awe, Sir,///( 8 )Far beyond a Plantagenet,a Tudor, or Naffau, Sir ;Let the feeptre be Iway’d bythe fon or the fire. Sir,Rlay their race rule this landtill the globe is on fire. Sir ;And may their future days, in glory & fuccels,Far furpafs the golden days we now poflefs.S Y L V l A. * S MARRIAGE.SYLVIA was tender, foft and young,the wonder of the plain ;The theme of every fhepherd’s fong,and author of his pain.To gaze on her, each, am’rous boy,would wade the live long day;Let wolves his helplcfs lambs deftroy,and flocks unheaded ftray.But Sylvia, rafh, unthinking maid,too fondly turn’d a wife ;Let all her blooming beauties fade,and lofi: the fweeis of life.So on the tree the blooming rofe,charms all beholding eyes.But pluck'd and torn IroBi whence it grows,it withers, taints, and dies.# GLASGOW,Printed by J. &-M, Robert Ton, SaltmarV.et. l8c3