■Jo. II. Price One Penny.IjIFE ofOliver Cromwell.fii±yfhi,o 10 wim.IIMIK?”J ou A SELEC't'J'ON OF Jx0r AMUSING and INSTRUCTIVEPAMPHLETS jI1' ! COMTHmVG-LIVES or GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMEN,BATTLSS ON SEA Sc LAND,HISTORIES of DIFFERENT COUNTRIES,\ACCOUNTS OF WONDERFUL EVENTS, SINGULARI’ CHARACTERS, and NOTORIOUS ' •USEFUL. FAMILY RECEJPTS, COOKERY, &C. &C.-w i; EDlNSliROH: v i ’• I - stiTHE BOOK SELLER5-’.»VILIFE OF OLIVER CROMWELL.Oliver CroWell, the subject of these pages,was born in the parish of St John’* Huntingdon,on theiSoth April, 1599- He was desfcended ofan ancient family of Welsh extraction, whosename was originally Williams, but afterwards:changed to Cromwell, in consequence of a matri¬monial alliance formed between one of his ances¬tors, and Thomas Cromwell the celebrated buthapless favourite of Henry VIII., who was raisedby that monarch from a humble situation to beEarl of Essex, Vicar-General, and Knight of theGarter. From an original genealogical table ofthe family of Cromwell, drawn r.p in the year1 002, by the order of Sir Henry Cromwell, grand¬father to Oliver, and still in the possession of hisdescendants, it appears sufficiently evident thatthe latter extraordinary, personage made no un¬founded boast when he asserted, in the course of aspeech which he delivered in Parliament, that he“ was by birth a gentleman, neither living in anyconsiderable height, nor yet in obscurity.'’ It iscertain that his family vyas both ancient and re¬spectable, and many of his ancestors were men of 1rank and Fortune. aairn -ooi i *The early years of the future Lord Protector 1of fingliaud, like those of every great personage, 1were marked, if we believe credulous biographers, |and the gossip of tradition, by numerous omensand strange occurrences presaging his future great¬ness. Two anecdotes of his earlier years we shall 1give.3WhiJe yet an infant, a monkey, which hisgrandfather kept, stole him from the cradle, aird.ran with him to the roof of the house. On disco-. vering the dangerous predicament in which youngOliver was placed, the family, in the uti*nost alarmlest the animal should drop his precious burden,inhumed out beds on which to catch him. Tliis-was unnecessary; his cafeful, though somewhatequivocal nurse, brought down the child wholtvnninjured, though not without e\hil>iting thestartling fact, that the fate of England had beenin the paws, if not in the hands of a monkey !King Charles I. when a boy, travelling fromScotland to Condon, called at H in chin brook, theseat of Sir Oliver Cromwell ;—that Kinght tt* di¬vert the young prince, sent for his nephew, Oliver,llthat, with his own sous, he might join in sportjtjwith his royal highness. They had not, however,been long together before Charles and Oliver dis¬agreed, and as the former was then as weakly asthe latter was strong, the royal visitor had soonthe worst of it. Oliver at this early age, with thesame disregard for hereditary dignity which mark¬ed his future life, and probably with somewhathtrf an instinctive hostility to royalty, boxed his,|i opponent so severely that the blood flowed from#the prince's nose. When the civil wax commenced,this circumstance was not forgotten, but looked,upon as an unfavourable open for that monarch.We shall proceed to take up this extraordinarycharacter at that period when it had attained suffi¬cient maturity to display, in some degree, the im-i press of the future man. Cromwell was put, at’very early age, to the free grammar school ofHuntingdon, where he made but little progress in-ibis education; and was much more remarkable for<a stubborn and obstinate temper, than for any at-4tainmeivts in literature, lie was repioved fromHuntingdon %o Sydney Sussex College in Ctun-bi'idge, where he led a disorderly and dissolutelife ; spending much of his time in the athleticamusements of crick.i t, fqot-bafl, cudgelling, andwrc^iling, in which he excelled. Uhs dispositionam} manners at this period, were rough and blus-te:ing, and, conseipjently, but ill adapted to thenci>ui!»ilion of learning, or to calm and solitary.study. The result was that he still made but littleprypifjellqy. After his father’s death, which tookplace vylien in his eighteenth year, he was removedfrom Cambridge, and sent to study law in Lon¬don, where he paid as little, attention as he hadbestowed on the classics at Cambridge. Usingin the receipt of a considerable income,.bequeathedhim by his father, ho abandoned himself to everyspecies of dissipation, drinking, gaming, and cer¬tain yet more immoral pursuit#. When abouttwenty yeays of age, Cromwell returned a finishedrake to the plncy of his nativity, where he for sometime continued the irregtilar habits which he hadacquired in the capital. He bullied and foughtwith his companions on the slightest provocation,—played many thousand mischievous pranks,—•was , quarrelsome and turbulent,—and the terrorof all the inn keepers in the neighbourhood,whose windows he made it a rule to break, whenany of them had tiie audacity to crave him forpayment of the sums which he had run up; inshort, Cromwell, at this period of his life, was, iitev.pry particular, a. downright blackguttafeam tnunThe scene, however, was soon to change. Thesound judgment and strong mind of Oliver, aidedby the admonitions of a fond motherv early exlii-,bited to him the folly of big conduct. lie began$I1 lu^leqlyr^Ojfcel a c^nigunction f^r the; many follies'i hetirad ^so-^uilty. HeI WrWte^ih'UWWMi. 4w^c^f «0jc}ety of' fiiyf'orm^.comp^q^)^ and flifnlayecl .thf^ugli^' fljsiWfefiJ?aWri1,?8 f. iCOfliplpte-. jfpfl gplid, reforma-!!| jfMrojl'W cqnfeq.u<;nce qf, thi^dwpge.^^.that1 Mfi39ui.SkkffPfi#n^fep tRftfid opirwqn afilhelfwM»land in particular of the ortlw^lqjf;.cjergy, ^9looked pi)q!q; ,thj^ltsiid(llenv,tfiansi.tion from vicq; to1 yir^ee as a remqrjkable.occurrenpe, ^y(l«he ioflu’'eii,e,e qf oife.flf^Uisi .relat^pns, CJf;qm\ypU< bad; iio>v.!,coffi^|fTh?l JMijiAw?wl^lcf&>yeSlfe "’f3 iq^59>“dqced to, and marriecj a lady of the name of Bour-/c)|}fXt. 'v;ho,: in lieq of persqnql chqrpis,, of.^icH:;|js|)e possessed but little, brQttg)i|ipof^Qr.1 •^advantages of fortune and gq9d,S?nse!Ti .'Khis^ft*(rais.i\ipn.sQ^imr.iediate'.y foltqyfpd,;|jyI ^«a(|jjya|(yq^|05njeg5gj|jUj»t.C|^'iidivftJu i^swAjY'pi^bJCwol!1 e, • p !° [J its members to ParliaVnent in 1625. .oonsiia niAfter various vicissitudes, in Iiia.private fortune,, we find .Cromwell now an enthusiastic,, bigoted,quilting, and spniew^ajl, yiaiooary .N9UC9qforniii^t,.i}iclose leagqe. wiUv.tluy-.jtpstqre sept,, and a markedj (|pI’?i£d^ whom his rigidcourseJ •.jTP«W?lflP^n.!V?9/of t)jfijHP/S8Sbiter'(fitR°|t. that parsuasibn^;, J^ecreeled a chape! in which they performed their re-, Site ^tifralie^s^lf^ptfe^r-..tainqd edify« se}F°®?». us liie 1lead ?.c tuat.partyI ^'ni/Mbii^H^feafe rfe -ear ]C3S> ftPrMrSft?1®1stilljfliope, attention. h£}}^ f}^npous.^d, wppsf-'l,c %VfT,SH)eiug.tliq fqp?‘ iof.Jotytfnt«‘. exteu^ivp |i;ap^ pt6nihrsfi/ lMiJ'With- NVUtefi t*county is!ii6vgf§d. ’'"‘i'lfftl 1iy poptMnf, t^o^lireil ftrr him aWtitt^stH^hi cotin i^ *h; t-(^pwlmj&."nfh% iy«ft¥ ii6Wtf3}rt1'fInA'1«)f 3fl’ «mertiber for th*- <?ftv‘ of C'kihbriH^e^ an horibiif rto which Me circiiHislaiu’t ailcAe aHilded to con-stderahly hefjped'IWM'i’-' " ‘ ‘ 10 *Jfdu,MJjaq nt onr. jThat period wav'now1'fast'approaching whose iextribWfinlfcjfy eWWs'^dp^ned w-rde tire path1ambition to the daring and aspiring soul of Crom¬well. Irr the year 16‘42, those unhappy differ¬ences first arose between the il|-advised and fi!-Charles F. and his Parliament, W hich led’himwho is the subject of these pages to a throne, andthe king of England jo a scaffold. The limits-ofthis llftle memoir wiffhof admit of otir enteringat rpiy lehglh into fhea'aridits cavises of this fatal- disagreement i they Wfee, however attended withtoo important resuiti'tb be passed over altogetherin silence.About the period of the accession of Charles I.to the throne, a violent spirit of republicanismbegan to evince itself throughout England, toge¬ther with a strong propensity to abridge the pre¬rogatives of the crown, which had been pushed, inseveral instances, to an illegal length by Charles’sfather, James I. This disposition with which thevery first Parlisinlent which Charhs summonedwas deeply imbued, acquired strength during thatunhappy monarch’s reign, by tfye rise of zealousand bigoted religious sectaries, of whose princi¬ples the most prominent was a violent aversion to« monarchical form of government, which theythought inimical tiv the natural rights of mankind.Among the early causes of complaint against' Cha lies, was (he undu^1 influence Which he permit- ]rrited the ambitious, fickle, «*k1 unpi incipled Dukeof Buckingham to exercise in the affairs of thei state. This noblemen, Whose name was Villiers,s and who had been suddenly raised from the estatei; of a private gentleman at once to peerage, and theI first offices in the kindom, by James I., was thei early companion and favourite of Charles, as hehad also been of his weak father, whose altacli-it ment to him solely arose from that singular tfftec-! tioh which he always evinced for those of his oivnsex who w ere eminently handsome—a qualificationwtiich this unworthy favourite possessed in no or¬dinary degtffce. -V"- *uiw mngiisi fiabuHld ,^i9qo | otTo the unreasonable power, as we have said,which Buckingham exercised, is principally to beattributed the first appearance of that hostility tothe crown, on the part of the Commons House olParliament, which finally ended in its overthrow.Of course, it must he always kept in view, thatthe new ideas of civil liberty, which w-ere fast gain-ing ground, formed, as it were, the basis of this ini¬mical feeling between the King and his Parliament,and that the immediate and ostensible causes ofquarrel wefe mere superstructures erected on thegrowing spirit of republicanism. As the breachwidened between the Sovereign and the Commons,the latter began to refuse supplies, unless conces¬sions in favour of civil liberty were made them inreturn. To this species of bargaining Charleswould not by any means consent. That monarch,though one of the mildest men, unfortunatelypossessed notions, in some measure no doubt in¬herited from that great assertor of royal prerogative,his father, on the subject, of the divine right ofkings, which were altogether incomputable with thegenius of the British Constitution. Charles, find¬ing that he could not hope fur relief from hi* ptvtcuni xry fiv.in • l;*e_ Common.?, Ira4 ,jvcowi'Nt; jtqwwious illegal ways of raising money,Uke mpst qljuoxipus, of winch was an attempt to |j)iocure supplies hr.a mode which the court partycalled by. the tender name of, a “ General Loan,”dnit which was, in fact, an arbitrary tax, imposed 'without the concurrence of ]’a; lian-eist. The nextwas the dispensing with the penal laws enactedagainstC.atiioli.es; one of.the mostof Charlegs reign,.iinmi'd'afeb, siv*ilfer:)i-se,to thote t|fanatical sectaries, who, aliccling. to think tliechurch, in danger .by-tlie encouragement thus givento Popery, blended religion witli sedition, and made ,the.cause of republicanism tby.cause of God. Thepopplar discantentsjgained gropndwith time,;—tl^ekipg^itq became tilled wilb;.^o)ist^4r)yi{i<,^igf^j tcabals, till at length, tij sLyte qf aBfqgliy .^u4. cp|>-fusion arose which could lie terminated only by theviolent ascendancy either of republican or num-«VV4hcVi‘JaV/T ',rriad:! f;vb to aaabi wsa nii„j, Tim unhappy, monarcji, as thej^yopbip&.of hjsreign increased, made, the uio>t piwho.iindtd con¬cession.-' to Parliament, in the vain hope of allay¬ing the distractions in tne kingdom, to which theircomplaints and i ejmldic!|q,^j^fily{ lifd,giv^fyyse.—lie patiently submitted to the most humiliatingindignities,—he reiterated, in the most solemnmaitper, iheyissuranyedhut he would maiptaiu in-.yjiplfj^c'l’rqt*st:i|it religion, aiuhnianlujililihe ilaw of the lapd. The more, however, lie yjfddtfd* Itie' mpre lie was oppressed ; the more concessions he ,made, lhe greater were the demands upon him;Until, at length, the Parliament sent him eondi-tions on wInch alone, they said, they could submitto a reconciliation, punqunting to a total abolitionof mouarchinl aulhority. Wi b this step .aided allattempts a! an amicable adjustment of those dilii r-9dices ltd'.vcci) the King ntiil his Pai h.itncnl, whiclihoth sides uow (bund could alone he decided UVthe sword. Abddrdingly, each actively proceededto bring the quarrel to an issue. The king, Col¬lecting 'some' threes, Erected his royal standard at’’ Nottingliain ; and, by this act, announced to the1 world the commencement of anarchy and civil warin his dom'inioiis.'J’SfttiVhfler tills open rupture had taken'place be¬tween the King and Parliament, CWri weliblitainedi a commission from the latter to raise a troop ofhorse, whicli he speedily accomplished in his owni county of Huntingdon, where he was extremely" popular. He first served under Sir Philip'St apple-'ioii, and was in the battle of Edge-hill, tought be¬tween the roralisU and the ibreesof the ParliiuneiU.Htirihg lids short jK-ritid of service, Obiiitv’e)1,though before wliollv unacquainted with!ahli ,• !displayed an intrepidity, coolness, and natural:jmilitary genius, which procured him instant aildrapid promotion: In HH3, lie obtained a colomTseomuiission, ami imincdiatcly after vriik uppoiiiti <1ilicutenunt-gi'iieral to the Ear! of Manchester, un-Idcr whom he was present at the hallo of MarstonMoor, wliere he was wounded.As tliis battle Was'one of the most obstiiuifi'l and satigurnarjr which occurred during the civilwar, a short account of it will not be uninterest-llrfgKM'FM? Parliamentarv generals having raisid1 the siege of York, with which they htvil been for•some time occupied, drew up their forces on Mar¬ston Moor, to'give battle to: the royalists .under(prince Itiijiert, the king’s bephew. ‘ This prince,1 pcrceivihg the inte'ntibn .A‘ ilic'cinunv, imniVdiatelyiiissued erilers tbr bmrld, ami l-.*-.’ oiu iVis army to U)bt field. The mnubeis bn each side were nearly equal,|i amounting in a!! to fiD'COO mch. !Tlie Priiice cbm-10tnamWl the right wing of the royahsls, and wasopposed to Cromwelh After a short but bloodycontest the cavalry of the royalists gave way, andsuch of the infantry as stood next them were like-■wise,borne down by the impetuosity of the charg¬ing squadrons under Cromwell, and were aileither instantly slaughtered or put to flight. TheMarquis of Newcastle’s Regiment alone, on theside of the royalists, determined either to conqueror perish, obstinately maintained their ground,•fiyd nearly all fell where they were first placed,in the same order in which they had been drawnup. In the other wing. Sir Thomas Fairfaxand (’oionel Lambert, with a body of soldiers,broke 'the royalists, and, transported witk theardour of pursuit, soon reached their victorious(friends engaged also in pursuit of the enemy.’General Lucas, however, one of the royalist of¬ficers, having restored order in the wing which hecommanded, made * furious attack on the I’arlia-’mentary cavalry, threw them into disorder, pushed'them upon their own infantry, and put that wholewing to rout. At this particular juncture, Crom¬well again appeared at the head of his zealous and(enthusiastic ‘drr-goons, and again the battle wasrenewed with redoubled vigour. Roth sidesfought obstinately, and the carnage was propor¬tionally great. At length, victory decided whollyan favour •of the Parliament. The Prince's train•of artillery was taken, and Ids whole army pushedoff the the Id of battle with the loss of 7000 men.T'fcis great and important victory was chiefly.asomhed to the soldier-like conduct ot Cromwell,who exhibited an intrepidity anti military tack.,thattxcited the admiration anti astonishment of all.After a series of splendid successes, terminatingjn the dethive battle of Naseby, which .dfcctually11,FfSinecl the cause of liie Uiiljapjjy kiug, we fiudCeuinweK at the head of the military and politicalInfluence of the kingdom, a power of’ which ths'first use he made was to bring his unfortunatesovereign to the block. This he accomplishedwith the aid of Harrison, the son of a butcher,Ireton. Bradshaw, and several other men of mean■extraction, ringleaders of the faction of which•Cromwell himself was the chief. The king, whowas now a prisoner in the hands of the Parlia¬ment, was brought to a public trial, and charged,in the name of the people of England,” with thecrimes of misgovernrnent, breach of trust, and awicked design to erect an unlimited and tyran¬nical government. During the trial, the unhappymonarch evinced the utmost calmness and intre-piility, never for a moment forgetting the dignityof royalty, or forfeiting his claim to respect, byany ebullition of passion, or indication of fear.Mild and majestic, but subdued by misfortune,the sovereign of England stood a striking contrastto the mean, furious,, and bigoted wretches bywhom he was surrounded, and by whom his lifewas sought. Never, even when encompassed withall the splendour* of royalty, and seated on thethrone of his ancestors, did Charles appear halfIso dignified as when—with his “grey discrownedhead uncovered*” as he nitnself affectingly termedit—he looked round, from the place of his huiniliration, on the blood-hounds who had run him down,and who, yelling on all sides, longed to spring upontheir prey and imbue (lieir fangs in his heart’s blood.The soldiers who guarded the enurt were insti¬gated to add insult to the humiliation of the kingas he parsed them. Some of these carried theifhmtalitv so far as to spit in the face of the miser¬able and degraded monarch, whose amiable andpaUyrft cUsfJd'siti'oii fras nu Turtlitir roused, by tinsufipRnUkleil audacity, than to excite,him to expressu'sentifdt'nt of pity dv compa'ssioii. After a trial,without pi:c?cfed^cnt ahd without justice^ Charles wascondemned to die. Three days were allowed himrhetween his iserrtcnee and execution., Every nightduring this mldartcholy interval the king slept asro»tnd as usual, though the noise' of the workmenteinployed in erecting the scafFold, oil which he wasto frutler, cintinuiHly resounded in hj:; cars. Onthe morning of the fatal day*, he rose early, andCalling Herbert, one of his attendants, bade himemploy more than ushal cafe in dressing and pre¬paring him for the awful 'approaching event.When on the scaffold, and preparing himself ft rthe hlbck, Bishop Juxon, a ’mild, virtuous man,and stoody adherent of the unhappy mbnafch,who attended hint on this last solemn occasion,called to him, « There is, sir, but one stage more,•which though'turhulhnf aild'trtplldesokie is yet aplace.'' Havingctdmly* laid liis^'lvchd upon the block, and oneblow it \vai’ Sevt'Fed from his body. Tilts’*dreadfuloffice \Vas ‘perfovined by a man in a viii’Or; another,in a similar disguise, iit’ld up ‘.he streaming headtib- thtrspectator!), pud exefahhed, “ I'liis is the headOf a traitor r ’ ;,n! ' ; ’ ', . ' '^fhaps no event in t!:e cours^ qf^i^fivell’srhordinhrv Uareef dieted, in a niofev'.strikingH , ■ : > ■uuiat.1 Ic.vity, aji the liaie l^jwas actitig uud(;r the special guklaiuc of iM’uvhl-e«ce, anil alFecting to deplore the approaching luteof the man w hom he had doomed to a \iolent death.He laughed and smiled during the trial ; and* irn-nupliately before he signed the warrant for thei execution of Charles* he- humorously marked theface of Harry Martin, another of tire regicides,,with the pen with which lie was about to sealthe fate,of his master. Martin, in a similar veinof levity, returned the compliment. Before andafter the execution he audaciously addressed hifiI God with hypocritical prayers, and .shed jteiuwiurhismihappy sovereign’s situation and death Whenthe tragedy was completed, he went to feast hiseyes iu» the body of the murdered k}ug ; and pathis finger to the neck, and viewing the iiyside ofthe body, observed how sound it was, and. how.J ^k)krtd§pfe(tlfov longevity^’.) yio» ml sbld * $OtfJ •bj^|f%fHfter this tragical occurrence, I'Vufax:1 hhyi°:g tesigned tire command of the ar.in,y„Gronjr,jt "ell was appointed to succeed him, atidin diatoly thereafter went into Scotland, at the headII of IddKJd men, to oppose General Lesley, wlro|j commanded an army in that country collected bythe adherents of Charles 11 whither this prince had3 been invited by. the commissi,oners far th# king-j dom. The hostile ru'mies took, their ground bet'Vixt1 Spott .anti Dunbar; the.Scottish forces ^ccjupyjpg[the Doon Hill, a remarkable eminence, and the,Dnglish urmy a plain beneath, in front of the town.! In this situation into which lie had been driven byLesley, Cromwell was precariously placed ; the. sea. 1 prevented his farther retreat, and the Scott ish army< so ady.auUtgeoitsly- posted, effectually hindered hisi advancing.; indeed, so complete was his diicmiwu,i thgl Cromwcil thought his good forUmy »t an ctu|.HIn tins predicament, he called Ins officers to aday of seeking the Lord," when he felt, as he after*wards declared, such an enlargement of heart inprayer, that he confidently bade all about him takecourage, for God had certainly heard them, andwould show them some remarkable sign of hispower. Shortly after this “ seeking of the Lord,'*and whilst walking with some of his officers in theEarl of Roxburgh’s garden, which lay under thehill occupied by the Scottish army, he discovered,on looking through a spy-glass, that the enemywere in motion, and descending from the vantage-ground which they possessed. Overjoyed by thiscircumstance, he exuitingly exclaimed, “ God isdelivering them into our bands, see they arecoming down to us!” He was not mistaken ;the Scottisli army were absurdly leaving theirstronghold, by their keeping possession of whichbut a little longer, Cromwell would inevitablyhave been starved into a surrender. The wholenight was employed by the Scottish army in de¬scending the hill, an operation in which the ene¬my took care not to disturb them. Early in themorning, however, when the whole had gained♦ he level ground, but before they had time to .form, Cromwell attacked them with such fury thatan immediate and sanguinary rout ensued ; during ,which, were we to credit the victorious general’saccount, 1000 Scotsmen fell. It is certain, how¬ever, that two entire regiments, which had ofTered ia braver resistance than some of the others, werewholly destroyed. On obtaining this victory, \Cromwell immediately pushed forward to Edin¬burgh, of which city, together with Leith, lie im¬mediately took possession. In the latter place higdragoons converted the churches into stables fojtheir horses.15Aft ei this defeat, (Jharlcs II. put himself at thejj head of the remains of his army; and ohserTMtg thatthe'way was open to England, he directed his marchtowards that country, expecting to be reinforced bythe royalists in that part of the kingdom. In this! he was deceived.—When at Worcester, word wasi brought him that Cromwell was marching fromScotland with an army of 4-0,000 men. This newswas scarcely arrived when Cromwell was thereJ He fell upon the town on all sides: the whole Scotsarmy were either killed or taken prisoners; and theking himself, having given many proofs of personalvalour, was obliged to Hy. This battle Cromwellin his letter to parliament styled the “crowningvictory.”—Soon after this Cromwell returned toj Condon, where these splendid successes procuredi him a cordial reception, and invested him with ayet greater degree of political influence.From this time he assumed more loftiness ofmanner, and betrayed less equivocal symptoms thanusual of his designs and hopes. Before, however,he could expect to succeed, it was necessary to sub¬vert the Parliament; but they becoming alarmed,i and put on their guard, framed a bill to continuetheir sittings till the 5th Nov. 1G54 Cromwell,on being informed of this, started up in the councilwith an appearance of fury, cried out that he was> compelled to do a thing that made the very hairsof his head stand on end. Then hastening to thei house with 300 soldiers, and with marks of violentt indignation on his countenance, he entered, took; his place, and attended to the debates for some1 time. When the question was ready to he put, hei» started up, and beg in to load the parliament witht reproaches for their robbery and oppression of the; public. Then stamping with his foot, he gave thesignal for the soldiers to enter ; and addressing16kilWhdf tu Ihc members, “ Foi sbame f' said be,“ yet you gone ; gire place to honostcr mvu. Iiril you, you are no longer a parlinrfient ; theLord lias done with you.” Sir Harry Vane ex¬claiming against this conduct, “ Sir Hai ry Vane !”eried Cromwell with a loud voice, “ O SiiJ HarryVane-! the Lord deliver me from Sir Harry Vane l”Tiiiting hold of one of the meriibers by bik cloak,“tiimi art a whoremaster,” cried he; to imollier,“ thou art an adulterer to a third, “ tlidn aft adrmikni'iL and glutton and liiou an extortion¬er,'1 to a fourth. It is you,’1 continued he, tothe me ml' rs, u who have forced me to this.'1'f'lun pointing to the mace, he exclaimed, ‘‘fakeaovnk that bauble I’1 after which, turning out all thethemlters, he ordered the doors to be locked, andretunred toAYhiteUnll tvith the keys in hi.< pocket.'-living willing, however, to amuse the people .with the form of u commonwealth, he proposed togive Jiis subjects a parliament. For this purport 'it wus decreed, that the sovereign power shouldbe; vested in Iff persons-under the name of aluirliumer.t ; ami he undertook to make the choicehimself. This Parliament, composed of the dregsof fanaticism and ignorance, was drOominatedlimnibnue*' -JMrtiatoent, from the name of one of itsmembers, a leather seller, whose assumed name, byu ridiculous usage of the sgeptvas I'ra'i.’ttQoti Bair- 'IxMle*. They chose eight of their members to seekthe-Lord, while the rest deliberated on substitutingthe law of Mo-ses instead of ttie established cade. ’CrrmWell did not find even this miserable as¬sembly entirely flexible to his will, and as the mi-tiou despised them, he bad no motive for retainingthem. A party, devoted 1o his ititeres!g, met byconsent earlier than the teat fltvd obsefx'ing thisj>$riinim»rt..hW sat- long endugh; hastened to Crom-well, with ,thp speaker, and resigned their author¬ity. Cromwell accepted their resignation withinterest was not involved. Lie was impartial amivigilant in the admiostration qf justice.—He en-eournged learning apd commerce ; was mpden^g,j ^teynperatc. and humane, when his safety or iun-hitiun retjuii ed no sacriiice. There is little donlit,however-, that Cromwell’s ambition did not tprjui-iiatc with this attainment, hut that he secretlylooked forward to the possession of the crown, and. tf»e cijpjivatjing. t»Me of.y^dWFtii J’F-p )Ci isy, that he often declared to his intimates,with tears in his eyes, lie. would rather have ta¬ken a shepherd’s stall' .than the Protectorship,since nothing was more contrary to his gepijUs anddisposition than the burden and show of greatness.Put it was necessary, he said, that he. should as¬sume the office wjji^j ,^e h^hl, in order to hinderhis country from falling a prey to the common erw-,3 mV. He onlv slept in, as he phrased it,, till GodI ,4iOtr»i4.!j.ihVct thr,t<^Vpj(ilie best mode of selthp;-;1#tlie detractions of th« kingdom; when he Msur-ed his Friends, he would surrender the heavy loadof greatness with a joy equal to the sorrow withwhich he bore the dignity thus thrust upon him bynecessity. With such discourse a* this, Cromwellentertained his republican friends who Waited Onhim, and who, fancying that they perceived a strongresemblance in every thing but the pame, betweena Protector and a Kinjf, were disposed to look up¬on Cromwell with a jealous eye; and to entertainsuspicion, that their willy coleague had employedthem merely as ladders in his ascent. These sus¬picions Cromwell endeavoured to ally by the lan¬guage we have given, and by affecting a vast dealof alfability and condescension. Shutting the door,he would kindly insist oh these doughty but out- Iwilted champions of republicanism silting down |overed beside him, to show how little he valued jthe ceremonies of etiquette, and howhumbly be bore |the honours of his office. The whole farce gener¬ally concluded with n long unintelligible prayer.There was no feature more remarkable in thepolitical practice of the Protector, than the va¬riety, extent, and certainty of his intelligence on Iall circumstances and occurrences connected withhis own personal interests or those of the slate.To procure this intelligence he spared no cost;and the consequence was, that he possessed anextent and minuteness of information on the «events of the day, that frequently both astonishedhis triehds and confounded his enemies. Of thistire following instances are no bad specimens ;— !One' day whilst Cromwell ami the Earl of Orrery t *were walking together, in one of the galleries of lWhitehall, a man, almost in rags, suddenly pre-senied himself before them. Cromwell, on pereerv-iliJ; him, immediately dismissed the astonished Ettrl, tii*aifd conducted the man into 1<i®eldset, Wio broughthim ihtelligence, that the Spaniards, with whomEngland was then at war, were to send in a Dutchship, a large sum of money to pay their army inFlanders. He also described certain concealmentsin the ship, where the money was deposited.Cromwell immediately dispatched an express to SirJeremy Smith, who lay in the downs, informinghim, that, in a day or Wo, a Dutch ship W'Ouldpass the Channel, which he must board and search,that he would find concealed, several large sums ofmoney, which he was to carry away. Accordinglythe ship appeared, Smith boarded her, found themoney, and immediately dispatched it to London.Jerrey White, chaplain to the Protector, carried1 his ambition so far as to pay his addresses to LadyFrances, CromweH’s youngest daughter. Jerrey,who was rather a handsome fellow, and, notwith¬standing his profession, of a gay and amorous dis¬position, succeeded in making a favourable impres¬sion on her ladyship. Such a transaction couldnot long escape the vigilence of her father} andhe was soon in possession of full information on thesubject. Oliver ordered his informer to observeand watch them narrowly, and promised that, uponsubstantial proof of the truth, he should be as am-j ply rewarded as the audacious chaplain should beI severely punished. Soon after, the informer wait-i ed on his highness, and told him that Jerrey wasi at that moment with his daughter. Oliver instant-I ly rushed into the lady’s apartment, where he foundI the unfortunate chaplain upon his knees, and in theIj act of kissing her ladyship’s hand. “ What Ist the meaning of this posture before my daughter ?”i exclaimed Oliver furiously. With admirable pre¬sence of mind the astounded chaplain coolly repli-p| ed, “ May it please your highness, I have a longtovise CQurted that young gcntlewama« .thcrov tDijt;liulyTs. womau,. and.-caiiiiot prevail,; :I was there-ftaaitilianJsly prayrng her.ladyship touie.” Olivet? afiqcting to believe everyuWord, heMill* .Mimed to. the- witiog n)aid»- and angjfij-y' sajjd,0, V¥hat4K the meaning of.thi^'hOasey^nH^i^' mySt'eieml, and 1 expect you will treat him as such.’/The damsel, thinking this a fair windfall, and Jerittey by no means a man to be sneered Pt, replied!with a lowr curtsey, “ If Mr White, sir, intendsmo.thttt honour, I shall not deny him.” “ Well,well, call Goodwin,” said Oliver, “ this businessshall be done presently, and beforejl leave tinsroam/’. Jerrey could hot retreat,, ! Goodwin,ap¬peared, and they were instanlty! joined ip the bandsof holy wrdlock,; the bride, at the same time, irftfpeiving. £5Q9-Jrom the Protector.. ;j ,s , ' .: l-ii 'iho tliis brief account of thi* singular man* weshnil.now;add a skebch df bis pvr^onal appearance,and the domestiejeconomy of hisfitablishment, whenflfiiotecrtob nf Engiaiid:) apdsyhi/hrutyomwell was ohrmiddling stntrip, but rather4»ill ;than .otiierwise!; of a stout atJilotio farm, blipdVatufesj.weai irregular, bufeiiboldly defined ; hipcouut2nance.coaFse,' but strongly marked and sin¬gularly ekpressive .of 'that greatt.-energy of charac¬ter for which he , was so remarkable. His, nose,-Which tms particularly prominent, and which had,daring the iattor,years of his life, become extreme--I'y rubicuuti, was made'the subject of.many >vit-ticisma, both in prose and verse, by -the,royalistsnod c-ivaliers of the j>eriod. Walker says, at thetime Gromweil ordered the Soldiers to fire in the |insiurection of the London apprentices, “ his nose- loqbed ns prodigiously upon you as a comet.”Shaking of the goverment’s imiking treason notrehson, hr a (ids,: “ That .-dio uhl the Parliament21vote £ that Oliver’s nose is a ruby,1 they wouldexpect you to swear it, and fight for it.” \Vc shut!conclude, our account of this celebrated I'caturr,with a specimen of the poetry which it in part elwcited at the time it blazed upon the world :Oliver, Oliver, take np thy' crown,For now th<i>ti hast ni'aile three kihi^iOVns thtive own.Call tliw a (‘onclave, of thy own erSfi'tioh', ‘To riile us to mini VVlior dare thee opposewe, thy tfood peopliN arfrat thy discrelioit'J o fad down and worship tliy terrible nose., And nghm,First, red nosed Noll, lie swallowed all.If is coVdnt* shewed he loved it, &c. &c.i| spjibnefci silt Itsv V) g<»onor iar»j.,tHin inOf the domestic establishment of Cromwell,after atUi’ming the Protectorate, we find somecurious particulars, in a pamphlet entitled tile“ Court and Kitchen of Elizabeth, commonly calledu Joan Crom\vell, wife of the late usurper.” 'i hoiighgot up with a very different object, it discoversto us, what, we know from other sources tot ho true,that both Cromwell and his wife, even in the zenithof ibeir s^ilendour, continued;to liye in the plainest4|i and most unassuming manner.Temperance, moderation, and the strictest eco-i nomy, pervaded every department of the Protce¬ll tor’s establishment. His wife devoted much of her|i time towailking,—making long excursions on footi into the country, with no other society than that|l of her daughters. On these occasions they carriedp with them some slight prorision, and were enabled1 to spend whole days in this simple and inoffensivei recreation. She entertained no public retinue;it and, when she \tfent abroad to visit in the city,'i was attended only by one of the household hoys,f whom she selected indifferently, regardless wliHhetv22they were in livery or not. In her dress she wasequally unaffected; having nothing but the plain¬est and simplest attire, without a jewel or ornamentof any kind.—The usual dinner hour of the house¬hold, was about noon, when “ a man might hear ahuge clattering of dishes, and noise of servitors, inrank and file marching to his table, though neithersumptuously or extraordinary furnished.” Nodelicacies appeared upon this frugal hoard. TheLady kept a strict and regular account of even themost trifling disbursement, and this document was,at stated periods, exhibited to Cromwell to bechecked and doqueted by his own band.Amongst a thousand other scurrilities recorded,we find, that Scots collops of veal was the standingdish of the Lady Protectress, and that she usuallyhad marrow puddings to her breakfast, while herdaughter, madam Frances, preferred a sausagemade of hog’s liver.In Cromwell’s character there was nothing more iextraordinary than the singular incotisistenciea iwhich it exhibited. This partly arose from by- ipocrisy, and partly from the natural constitution lof his mind. One moment he might be found tdirecting some great and masterly movement in Uhis army, and the next playing off some silly »piece of buffoonery with one of the meanest of hissoldiers. In austere and religious bigotry hecould notr to appearance, he outdone by the most «;zealous of the sect to which he had attached him- tself. He canted and prayed with some, and itbroke the most irreverent jests with others. It ttis told us, that, one day sitting at table, lie had a ibottle of wine brought him, of a kind which hevalued so highly that he would open the bottle min.himself; hut, in attempting to do this, the cork :screw dropt from his hand. Immediately his t23eeurtiers a»d generals flriBg themselves on thetioor to recover it. Cromwell burst out a-laugh-ing. “ Should any fool/’ said he, “ put in hishead at the door, he would fancy, from your pos¬ture, that you were seeking the Lord, and youare only seeking a cork screw I" This singularlevity of disposition was the cause of other coarsescenes which frequently happened at his table.This singular man, whose latter years- were|| rendered miserable by domestic misfortunes, antia constant dread of assassination—which inducedhim to wear armour under his clothes—died onthe 3d September, 1(158, a day which he alwaysthought favourable to him. He was interredin the sepulchre of England’s monarchs with morfelij than regal pomp. As the ceremonies before hi»i interment were singularly magnificent, an accountof them will not be found without interest :—The corpse of Cromwell having been embalmedand wrapped up in a sheet of lead, was removedfrom Whitehall to Somerset House. The room,i where the spectators entered, was completly hungwith black; a second and a third room, were de¬corated in a similar manner. These three apart¬ments were completely furnished with splendidscutcheons of his arms surmounted by the imperiali crown; and at the head of each cloth of state was(fixed a large majestic scutcheon, painted and giltitipon taffety. The room, where the body lay, washung with black velvet, the roof was ceiled withdhe same material, and a canopy was placed overlan effigy of the deceased in wax. This figure wasrin a rich suit of uncut velvet, laced with rich goldland furred ermines; upon the kirtlc was a royalirobe of purple velvet, laced with rich strings anditassels of gold. In the right hand was the goldensceptre, representing government; in the left hand; e'4fh*' frlobp. 4rnotiri^ jwinc ipnUty ; uprnrtlvc' hff.lfJ :jmrj>!fe velvet (M|>,‘ f’tinTtI vvitfi ernifriesj sigmifyiiJ;nvv.iltv'; bfiniul the head there was -n rich elftiitd state OS’* fis^viecl gold ; fltitl, upon* tbfi ettSbioiaMviefi 'Wty theieorl, was placet^ an imperial cvow;*et 'tril'l' precious stones. The body- lay upon f1r(1 of Witte dow ered Avith a large pall ofd.lack Telvet, under s hieli'there was spread a fine Hollsn*JtJVr et Opon si'y stools of tissued cloth of gold. lOthe sides of the* bed of state was placed a rreh suiof complete armour', representing Grortiweli’s coirmend Bs-gs itb’ml; at the feet stood his crest, nccording to the custom of ancient monuments. t•Tint ( xpeticp of this grtrgebus funeral, of whichbv tlte 'j»av, but a small- portion was ever psti<amounted tGHf&MftfidO.MO - * A- -.qmoq .lugsi nc.* f tv the voar the bodies of Crotmv'eU, Brae,shavr (president of the court which condemne< Turl*’*), mid 'rc^nf were,' l>v a vote of the bldusof ConVowmS, torn from tire grave, and drawn itwo sc'V'Mal carts from VVestudnster to the ReLinn Inn in Holhorn, where they remained tinight. •Iji'adsb.iw's body was purposely left nutthe morning fotfowhig, winch was the ^nniversarof the king's execution The tlrreo bodies-"wefthen conveyed upon sledges to the gallows^ takeout of their eofons, banged upon the three sevenangles of the gi|iix't tWl sunset, then beheaded, an|their-frmiks .tbrotvn into a hole at the foot of tlgallows. The beads were afterwards set Upcpoles upon the top of Westminster Hail, whetOliver’s remnined for upwards of twenty yea?imel .lotla/ tuonu "io Jiu* nan £ul .bk>^ io