1 “I doubt,” said Bruce, “that I have slain the KedOomyn.” “ Do you leave such a matter to doubt ? ” criedKirkpatrick fiercely ; “ Ise mak’ sicker.”—See page 3.EDINBURGH :PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.THE HISTORYOFKINGROBT. BRUCE,CONTAINING THE MEMORABLEBATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN,(fee (fee. (fee.a i .o5Tiir: itistorVfibKING ROBERT BRUCE.Edward I. of Eiigtanii, having conltraiilecf John Baliol i|abdicate the throne of Scotland, and succeeded, by treachei*in securing the rdnb'wned Sir Williaih tVallace, whom Hcruelly put to death, at Lgadoyi op the 23d, of August IgjB,took possession of the country as bis by right of conqueslThe people everywhere rose against the usurper, who waJ:determined to fight for the freedom of their country, and i*fllieve themselves from the galling yoke of the English ; anil;therefore, such great nobles as thought they had a right 1the vacant throne began to stand forward to claim it. Amocthe competitors for the regal honour were two power!noblemen. The first was Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrie:grandson of that Robert Bruce who had disputed the throiwith John Baliol; the other was John Comyn of Badenoegenerally styled the Red Comyn, to distinguish him from bkinsman, the Black Comyn, so called from his swarthy corplexion. These two powerful barons laid both assisted tlimmortal Wallace in the wars against England; but aftthe defeat at Falkirk, being afraid of losing their great estateand desponding of ever regaining the independence of thecountry, they not only acknowledged Edward as KingScotland, but even bore arms along with the English againtheir patriotic countrymen, who resolved rather to die in dfence of their rights than submit to the tyrant’s sway formoment.Bruce’s feelings concerning the baseness of his conduiare believed to have been roused by the following incidentIn one of the numerous battles which took place between tlEnglish and their adherents on the one side and the Scotti:patriots on the other, Bruce had assisted the English in gai:ing the victory. When the battle was over, he sat downdinner without washing his hands, on which were spotsblood which he had shed during the action. “ Look at thScotchman,” whispered some of the English lords to themessmates, “ who is eating his own blood.” Bruce felt t]cutting remark, and, beginning to reflect that the fdood upohis hands might well he styled his own blood, seeing it wTHE HISTORY OF KINO1 ROBERT BRUCE. 3that of his valorous countrymen who were struggling for| their national independence, he rose from table, entered aneighbouring chapel, where he shed many tears, imploredGod's forgiveness for the great sin he had been guilty of, andmade a solemn vow that he would atone for it by using hisi utmost exertion to deliver his bleeding country from the iron; yoke of Edward. Accordingly, he entered into a secret bond> of .association with the Bishop of St Andrews, as head of theK Scottish Church, whereby the parties hound themselvesi mutually to assist each other against all persons whatsoever,and neither to undertake any business of importance with-|| out the other. He had also a conference with Comyn, atrI which he proposed that they should thenceforward entertainI feelings of friendship towards each other. “ Support,” saidII Bruce, “ my title to the crown, and I will give you all my' lands ; or, bestow on me your lands, and I will support your| claim.” Comyn accepted the former of these proposals, andd an agreement being drawn up, it was sealed by both parties,I: and confirmed by their oaths of fidelity and secrecy. Comyn,'I however, revealed the secret to Edward, who resolved on re-| venge ; and, having drank freely one evening, discovered his1 intention to some of the nobles of his court. The Earl of| Gloucester, a kinsman of Bruce, had notice of his friend’s:l|i danger, and, anxious to save him, yet afraid in so serious a; matter too rashly to compromise his own safety, sent him a; purse of gold and a pair of spurs. Bruce, understanding thehint, had his horses shod with their shoes inverted, that thetraces on the snow might baffle his pursuers, and instantlyset out for Scotland, accompanied by his secretary and asingle attendant. Arriving at Dumfries, he immediately as¬sembled his friends and all the nobles, who encouraged hisresolution, and promised their aid, Comyn excepted. Comynendeavoured to dissuade them from so desperate an undertak¬ing ; and, after the assembly was dismissed, Bruce sought aprivate interview with him. From some inward misgiving,no doubt, on the part of Comyn, the meeting took place inthe churchyard of Dumfries, before the high altar. HereBrnce passionately reproached Comyn for his treachery inhaving revealed the secret to Edward, and, after some alter¬cation, Bruce drew his dagger and stabbed him to the heart.Immediately hastening from the spot, he called for his at¬tendants, who, seeing him pale and agitated, inquired thecause. “ I doubt,” said Bruce, “ that 1 have slain the RedComyn.” “ Do you leave such a matter to doubt V’ criedKirkpatrick fiercely ; “Ise mak’ sicker,”—that is, I will makecertain ; and, accordingly, he and Lindsay rushed towards thewounded Comyn, and dispatched him with their daggers.4THE HISTORY OFHis unde, Sir Robert Comyn, hearing the souffle, entered,and shared a similar fate. The murder of Comyn was a cruelaction, and Heaven's displeasure seemed to have followed it,for no man ever went through more misfortunes than RobertBruce, who was the bravest and best warrior in Scotlandnow that his country had been deprived of Sir William Wal¬lace, and was also famed for his prudence and skill as a com¬mander in the field.Bruce had committed an action which was sure to bringupon him the vengeance of all Cornyn’s relations, the resent¬ment of the King of England, and the displeasure of thechurch, for slaying his enemy within consecrated ground.He therefore determined at once to bid defiance to them all,and assert his right to the Scottish throne. For this purpose,he summoned his own followers, together with such baronswho still entertained hopes of their country’s freedom, andwas crowned king at Scone, the usual place where the Scot¬tish kings were inaugurated, on March 27,1306. The regaliahad been carried by Edward to Westminster, but their placewas speedily supplied. The Bishop of Glasgow furnished fromhis own stores the robes in which Bruce was arrayed, and aslight circlet of gold, to represent the ancient crown of Scot¬land, being procured from the nearest artist, the Bishop of StAndrews set it on his head. The Bishop of Glasgow also pre¬sented to the new king a banner wrought with the arms ofBaliol, which he had concealed in his treasury, and under itRobert received the homage of those who devoted themselvesto his service. The Earls of Fife had from a remote antiquityenjoyed the privilege of crowning the kings of Scotland ; butDuncan, the representative of the family, favouring at thattime the English interest, his sister, the Countess of Buchan,with a boldness and enthusiasm which must have added tothe popular interest felt for the young king, repaired to Scone,and, asserting the privilege of her ancestors, placed the crowna second time on Bruce’s head. The eyes of all Scotlandwere now directed towards him. He was without a rival■—his past conduct had given ample earnest at once of hisintrepidity and prudence, and his countrymen regarded himas their last remaining hope.The King of England was dreadfully incensed when hewas informed that, after all the pains he had taken, and allthe blood which had been shed, the Scots were making thisnew attempt to shake off his authority. At a great festival,though now old and sickly, he made a solemn vow, in presenceof all his court, that he would take ample vengeance on Bruceand his followers, and accordingly marched against him atthe head of a powerful army. The beginning of Bruce’s un-KING ROliERT BRUCE.ijertakings was most disastrous. Two months after he wastrowned, the Pope excommunicated him, which deprivedim of all religious benefits, and authorized any one to killiim. On June 19, the new king was completely defeated atikethven, near Perth, by the English Earl of Pembroke,ilruce’s horse was killed under him in the action, and he wasjr a moment made prisoner by a Scottish knight, who,hough he served in the English army, did not wish any harm0 Bruce, and allowed him to escape. The victorious Englishxecuted their prisoners with their usual cruelty.fj After the defeat at Methven, Bruce, with a few adherents,■tired to the Highland mountains, where they were pursued1 pm one place of refuge to another, placed in great danger,!nd endured many hardships. Bruce’s wife, now Queen ofi'ae Scots, with several ladies, accompanied her consort andlis little band during their wanderings. The only methodhey had of providing for them was by fishing and hunting,touglas, who was afterwards called the Good Lord James,vas the most active and successful in procuring for the un-brtunate ladies such supplies as his dexterity in killing deerr in fishing could furnish to them. Bruce, driven from onei lace in the highlands to another, attempted to force his 'fay into Lorn, but everywhere he found enemies. The1‘Dougals, then called Lords of Lorn, were friendly to Ed-iirard, and, putting their men in arms, attacked Bruce and hisfandering adherents as soon as they attempted to enteri heir country. John of Lorn, the chief of these M‘Dougals,fas closely connected by marriage with the family of themurdered Comyn, and therefore he hated Bruce. This chief,Brough force of numbers, again defeated Bruce at a placeailed Dairy, that is, the royal field ; but, amidst all his mis-Brtunes, he shewed the greatness of his strength and courage,'.laving directed his men to retreat through a narrow pass,||e placed himself last of the party, and fought with and slewliuch of the enemy as pressed hard on them. Three followersIlf M‘Dougal, a father and two sons, called M'Androper, allotrong men, beholding Bruce protecting the retreat of his(oen, vowed that they would either kill or make him prisoner,;nd the whole three rushed on the king at once. He was on: orseback in the strait pass already noticed, betwixt a steepllill and a deep lake. The first man that seized his reinslilruce struck such a blow with his sword as cut oft' his hand,End freed the bridle ; the other brother, in the mean time,> lad seized him by the leg, and was attempting to unhorsemim, when the king, setting spurs to his steed, made theinimal suddenly spring forward, so that the Highlander fellI nder the horse’s feet, and, as he was endeavouring to rise,0THE HISTORY OFthe king cleft his heart in two with his Sswonl. The farhiJjseeing the melancholy fate of his two sons, flew at the kiiil:and grasped him by the mantle so close to his body that he hatnot room to wield his sword ; but he dashed his brains ojl]with an iron hammer that hung at his saddle-bow. TlHighlander still kept his dying grasp on the king’s mantso that, to extricate himself from the dead body, he was coipolled to undo the clasp by which it was fastened, and lea>that and the mantle behind him. The clasp is still in t:possession of the family of Lorn, who still retain it as a nimorial that the celebrated Kobert Bruce once narrowescaped falling into the hands of one of their forefathers.Bruce met with many such encounters amidst his dang'ous and dismal wanderings ; but still he kept up his spir!and those of his companions with the hope of better timeland often recounted to his friends tales and adventuresprinces vrho had been placed in similar situations. Dange'at last increased so much around the brave King Boberthat he found it necessary to part from his Queen ; for wintwas rapidly approaching, and it would be impossible for tladies to endure this wandering sort of life when the keblasts of winter should come on. Ho left his Queen with tCountess of Buchan and others at Kildrummie Castle, nethe head of the river Don, in Aberdeenshire, Nigel Bru«his youngest brother, remaining to defend the castle agairthe English. The king, with his remaining followers, amouring to nearly-200, determined to force a passage into Kmtyrand thence cross over to the north of Ireland. On arriviat the banks of Locklomond, there appeared no mode of covovance across the loch ; but after much search, Sir JanDouglas discovered a small crazy boat, by means of whLthey effected a passage. This heroic party were a night a)a day in getting over, the boat being only able to carry jtbipersons at a time. The king soon after fell in with the E:of Lennox, ignorant till then of the fate of his sovereign,,whom he had received no intelligence since the defeatMethven ; and by bis exertions the royal party were am5supplied with provisions, and enabled to reach Dunavorty,Kintyre, in safety, whence, after recruiting the strength a.spirits of his followers, the king and a few of his adhereupassed over to the small island of Rathlin, on the north cosof Ireland, where they remained during the -winter of 13«•111 luck, in the mean time, seemed to pursue his friendsScotland. The English took Kildrummie Castle, and enfemurdered Nigel Bruce, a brave and beautiful youth. Tladies who had attended Bruce’s queen, as well as the Qurherself, were put into strict contlnement, and treated wiKING-ROIiKKT liRUCK. 7| tiie greatest cruelty. This news reached Bruce at Rathlin,il and reduced him almost to despair. But an incident took'|i place about this time which greatly encouraged the king tn!j persevere in endeavouring to free his beloved country fromi English oppression. Having received the last unpleasanti news from Scotland, he was lying on his wretched bed onemorning, and deliberating with himself whether he had notbetter resign all thoughts of the Scottish crown, and trans-port himself and brothers to the Holy Land to tight againsti| the Saracens, by which he might in some measure atone for11 the murder of Comyn. But, on the other hand, he thoughtit would both he criminal and cowardly to relinquish theI cause of his country and his right to the crown. While he| was in this state of mind, and doubting what path he should| pursue, he happened to look up to the roof of the cabin inj which he lay, and perceived a large spider, which, hanging atj the end of a long thread of its own spinning, was endeavour-;t ing, as is its custom, to swing itself from one beam in thet roof to another, for the purpose of fixing the line on which1! it meant to stretch its web. It made the attempt again andI again without success ; and at length Bruce counted that itill had endeavoured six times to carry‘its point, and had as oftenjl failed in the attempt. He thought that he had fought six| battles against the English and their allies, and that the poor!| persevering spider was exactly in the same situation withi! himself, having as often attempted, and still disappointed atji what it aimed at. “ Is’ow,” thought Bruce, “as 1 have nomeans of knowing what is best to be done, I will be guidedi| by the luck which shall attend this spider. If it shall makej,! another effort to fix its thread, and shall be successful, I will| venture a seventh time to try my fortune in my native land ;| hut if it shall fail, I will go to the wars in Palestine, andnever return to my native land again.” While forming this,resolution, the spider made another exertion with all thestrength it could muster, and succeeded in fastening itsf thread on the beam which it had so often in vain attemptedto reach. Beholding the spider’s success, Bruce resolved to1 try his own fortune ; and as he never gained a victory before,| so he aever sustained any considerable defeat afterwards.On the approach of spring, Sir James Douglas and SirI Piohert Boyd left the king and passed over to Arran, whichi lies at the mouth of the Clyde. A few days afterwards,Bruce arrived from Ilathlin with a fleet of 33 small galleys,and, having landed, inquired at a woman whom he met, whatarmed men were in the island 1 She said there had latelyarrived a body of armed strangers, who had defeated the' governor of the castle of Brathwick, had slain him and most8THE HISTORY OFof his men, ami were now amusing themselves with hunting inthe island. Bruce, having caused himself to be guided to thewoods where they most frequented, blew his horn and wasinstantly surrounded by James Douglas and his companions,who well knew the king’s manner of blowing. Being nowwithin sight of his family possessions, he immediately beganto form plans with Douglas how they might best renewtheir enterprise against the English. The king now openeda communication with the opposite coast of Garrick, by meansof one of his followers of the name of Cuthbert, whom hesent over to ascertain how his countrymen were feeling to-:wards him. It was agreed that, if they were favourable tohim, he was to make a tire on a headland, called Turnberry,facing the island of Arran. Bruce and his companionseagerly watched for the signal, but for some time in vain.'jA tire on Tumberry-head at length became visible, and the!king and his men, about 300 in number, betook themselves'to their galleys, and hastened over to Garrick coast, concluding that their friends were favourable. Landing on thebeach about midnight, they found Cuthbert waiting theirarrival, who informed Bruce that there was little chance ofhelp from his subjects. “ Traitor !” cried Bruce, “ why didyou make the signal then ?” “ The fire was not made by me,”replied Cuthbert; “ but as soon as I perceived it, I has¬tened to inform you how the matter stood, knowing that youwould take it for my signal.” Bruce determined, after somehesitation, to take such fortune as Heaven should be pleased:to send him. He succeeded in taking the castle of Turn-berry from Lord Percy, and in dismissing the English fromGarrick ; he also took the castle of Inverness^from theEnglish, which wras strongly situated on a high rock by theriver Ness. Many interesting incidents are related of Brucaabout this time. Among others rve relate the followingA near relation of Bruce’s, in whom he confided, was, byEnglish bribes, induced to attempt his death. This traitor,along with his two sons, watched Bruce one morning, till heobserved him separated from all his companions, excepting alittle boy, who waited on him as a page. The villain had asword in his hand, one of his sons had a sword and a spear, |and the other had a sword and a battle-axe. When Bruce Iperceived them so well armed, and no English near, he re- icalled some hints which had been given him, that these men §intended to slay him. Bruce had only his sword, and his tpage had a bow and arrow. Taking the bow and arrow from 1the boy, he desired him to stand at a distance ; “ for,” saiil (jBruce, “ if I overcome these villains, you shall have plenty hof weapons; but if I am murdered by them, you may escape, <)KING ROBERT BRUCE. 9II and inform the brave Douglas and my brother to revenge mydeath.” The traitors advanced upon Bruce, that they mightdispatch him at once. “ Come no nearer,” cried Bruce,jj “ upon the peril of your lives.” But the old conspirator an-iswered him with smooth words, pretending great kindness,and still. continuing to approach him. “ Traitors !” criedBruce, “ you have sold my life for English gold ; but advancei one step nearer, and you perish.” As the old villain con-;j tinned to advance, Bruce, who was an excellent archer, let: fly the arrow, which penetrated his brain, and he imme-j diately died. The two sons now rushed upon Bruce, one ofI whom aimed a blow at him with his axe, but, missing hisstroke, he stumbled, and the king cut him down ere hecould recover his feet. The other son ran on Bruce with his: long spear, but, with a dash of his sword, the king cut olfthe steel head of the villain’s weapon, and laid him prostrateon the ground. “ These might have been reputed three gal¬lant men,” said Bruce to his page, “ had they resisted thosin of covetousness.”Bruce, having slain these three traitors, continued to wan-ilder among the fastnesses of Garrick and in the neighbour-n ing country of Galloway with his hardy band, which did not| amount to more than 60 men. The people of Galloway, liv-ii ing under the government of one M‘Dougal, related to the|| Lord of Lorn, who defeated Bruce at Dairy, and very nearlyi killed or made him prisoner, hearing that he was in their! country, collected 200 men, with bloodhounds to trace thefugitives through the forests and morasses. Notwithstanding! the secrecy of their preparations, Bruce received intelligenceof his danger, and towards night withdrew his men to a posi-!tion where there was on the one side a morass, and on theother a rivulet which had only one narrow ford, over whichthe enemy must necessarily pass. Leaving his followersabout half a mile distant from the river to take a littlesleep,i Bruce proceeded with two attendants to the ford, where the: approaching yell of the bloodhounds soon fell upon his ears,followed by the voices of men urging it forward. The blood-i hounds, ever true to their nature, led the Galloway mendirectly to the ford where the king stood, who, fearing thedestruction of his whole party should the enemy gain theford, boldly resolved to defend it alone. The Gallovideansfinding on their arrival but one individual posted on theI opposite side to dispute their way, the foremost of their partyt rode boldly forward ; but, in attempting to reach the otheri side of the stream, Bruce, with a thrust of his spear, laid himdead on the spot. The same fate was shared by four of hiscompanions, whose bodies became a sort of rampart againstTHE HISTORY OF10the others. Being dismayed at so unexpected and fatal areception, they fell back for a moment in some confusion ;but ashamed that so many should be baffled by the prowessof one man, furiously returned to the attack. They were,however, so valiantly repulsed by Bruce that the post wasstill maintained ; and at length the loud shout of the king’s jiparty, advancing to his rescue, warned the enemy to retire, ||after sustaining in this unexampled conflict the loss of 14 ||men. The danger to which Bruce had been exposed, and l|the bravery which he had shewn on this occasion, inflamedthe spirits of his party, and gained many to his standard ofUliberty.Bruce required all the aid he could receive ; for Sir Aymerfde Valence, who was Earl of Pembroke, the English guardian,was already advancing upon him with a large body of men,having also obtained the assistance of John of Lorn, whosefollowers were well acquainted with that species of irregularwarfare to which the king was obliged to have recourse.John of Lorn had with him a bloodhound, which was saidonce to have belonged to Bruce, and was so familiar with hisscent, that if once it got upon his track, nothing could divert,it from its purpose. By means of this hound, John of Lornthought he would certainly accomplish the destruction of theScottish king. When these two armies advanced uponBruce, he at first determined to fight the Earl of Pembrokebut, understanding that Lorn was with a numerous partymoving round to attack him in the rear, he resolved to re¬treat, fearing to engage with such unequal numbers. Hetherefore divided his adherents into three divisions, com¬manding them to retreat by as many ways, imagining the.enemy would be baffled which to pursue ; appointing at thesame time where they were to meet again. When John ofLorn arrived at the spot where the king had divided hisimen, the bloodhound pursued Bruce’s division, which con¬vinced Lorn which to follow, neglecting the other two. parties:of the Scots. Bruce, observing he was still pursued by alarge body, desired all his party to take different ways,,thinking by this means to stagger his pursuers, he takingwith him one companion, who was his own foster-brother.Arriving at the place where Bruce’s men had dispersed them¬selves, the bloodhound followed Bruce and his foster-brother.Lorn accordingly commanded five of his men, who weraswift of foot, to pursue the king, and either slay or take himprisoner. They ran so fast that they were soon in sight ofBruce, who, when he observed, along with bis foster-brother,turned upon them, and slew them all. Bruce and hiscompanion were very much fatigued by this time, yet theyKING ROBERT BRUCE.11iurst not sit down to taj<c a moment’s rest, fur they stilljeard the cry of the bloodhound behind them. They at length•rived at a wood, through which ran a small rivulet, intoi hich they plunged, and walked a considerable way downle stream—destroying in this manner the strong scent on- hich the dog had proceeded—and did not halt to take anysst until they had gone far into the wood. Lorn, havingjst the track of the king, now returned and joined I'em-roke.. The king and his companion, having rested themselves inie wood, began to pursue their journey, in hopes of sooncaching a habitation where they might get some refreshment,i i the midst of the forest, however, they met with threeren, who had the appearance of ruffians or thieves, and wereill well armed. One of them had a sheep on his back, which4ey had just stolen from a neighbouring held. Havingivilly saluted the king, he replied to their, salutation, andnquired whither they were going. “ We are seeking foring Robert,” answered the ruffians, “ fur we intend joiningstandard.”1 “ If you will go with me,” said Bruce, “ I willijmduct you to the Scottish king.” Bruce observing thenan who had spoken change colour, looked sharply at him,nought that he guessed who he was, and that he and hisiimipanions had a design against him, for the purpose of re¬viving the reward which had been ofiered for his life. “ Mytpod friends,” said Bruce, “as we are strangers to each other,>u will go lirst, and we will follow.” “ You have no occa-i.on to dread any harm from us,” replied the man. “ I doot suspect any,” said Bruce, “ but this is the way in which|.choose to travel.” They walked on till they reached aruinous cottage, where the ruffians proposed dressing part ofle sheep. Having kindled two fires, one at each end of themuse, they broiled part of the sheep, which proved . very ac-ftptable to the king and his foster-brother. After partaking■{the sheej), a heavy drowsiness came upon the king, and,living desired his companion to keep a strict look-out .onheir uew acquaintances, fell asleep j but his foster-brother,living undergone as much fatigue, as the king, soon also11 into a deep slumber. The three villains, observing theing and bis companion asleep, made signs to each other,id, starting all at once, drew their swords, intending to killiem both. Although the ruffians made little noise in rising,it it was sufficient to awaken the king, who slept butghtly, and, starting to his feet, at the same timeawaken-|g his friend with a push of his foot, prepared to.meeti is dastardly companions. Ere the king's tbstor-brother wasilly awake, one of the villains slew him. Bruce was nowTHE HISTORY OF12placed in a hazardous situation—three against one but s*heroically did he wield his trusty sword, that he slew tinthree villains, one after the other.’ The day being far spenthe proceeded towards a farm-house, where he had arrange*to meet his men after their dispersion. Arrivingat the househe entered, and found the hostess, an old, true-hearted Scotswoman, alone. Seeing a stranger enter, she inquired whand what he was. Bruce replied that he was a travellerwho was passing through the country. “ All travellers,”sabthe old dame, “ are welcome here for the sake of one.'“ And who is that one,” inquired Bruce, “ for whom yenmake all travellers welcome ?” “ It is Kobert Bruce, ouilawful king,” replied the good old woman ; “ and althouglhe is now pursued and hunted after with hounds and hornsI trust I shall be spared to see him king over all Scotland.“ Since you love Robert Bruce so well, good woman,” replie;the king, “ know that I am Robert Bruce.” “ You !” esclaimed the brave old lady ; “ and wherefore are you thu)alone ?—where are all your men ?” “ I have none with mjust now,” answered Bruce, “and therefore I must travcalone." “ That shall not be,” said his brave hostess, “ forhave two stout and gallant sons, wdio shall be your servantfor life or death.” The loyal old dame, having made her sonswear fidelity to their king, was preparing his supper, whesuddenly a great trampling of horses was heard, which theat first took to be some of the enemy ; but when they hearthe voice of Douglas and Edward Bruce, who had come wit150 horsemen, they rejoiced exceedingly. Bruce, being informed by Douglas that there were 200 English in a villagthat he passed, who kept no watch, rode off at the head <his little army, and put the greater part of them to the sworjthat very night. Pembroke shortly afterwards retired witrhis whole forces towards England, and, after another disastw;similar to that just mentioned, retreated to Carlisle.Encouraged by success, Bruce ventured down upon tl:1low country, and reduced the districts of Kyle, Carrick, anCuninghame to his obedience. Pembroke determined agaito take the field, and, putting himself at the head of a stroirbody of cavalry, he advanced into Ayrshire, and came uwith the army of Bruce, when encamped on Louden Hi)Although Bruce’s army was greatly inferior, and consist*:wholly of infantry, he gave Pembroke battle ; and so well dihe conduct the conflict, that while the loss of the Scots wiextremely small, Pembroke’s whole forces were put to flighi ia considerable number being slain, and many made prisoner^Three days after this, Bruce encountered Monthermer. al t'jhead of a considerable body of English, whom he also dillIKING ROBERT BRUCE. 13feated with great slaughter. These successes proved of thegreatest consequence to the cause of Bruce, which wasstrengthened still further by the death of Edward I., whodied at Burgh-on-the-Sands, in Cumberland, July 7, 1307,in full sight of Scotland, and within three miles from its fron¬tier. With his last breath he commanded that his bodyshould accompany the army, until Scotland was entirely sub¬dued ; but his son, disregarding his injunction, buried his re¬mains in Westminster Abbey.Edward II., receiving intelligence that his dominions be¬yond seas were in a disturbed state, made a few domesticarrangements, and went over to France. Bruce, in his ab¬sence, resolved upon retaliation, twice invaded England, and' returned with immense booty, without coming to any engage¬ment. During the two following year's, 1311 and 1312, herecovered almost all the fortified places which remained inpossession of the English. In taking the town of Perth,which was carried by escalade, Bruce himself carried a lad-tder, and was the first to enter the ditch, the water of whichstood to his throat. A French gentleman, who happened tobe present, when he saw the king pass on, exclaimed, “ WhatI shall we say of our French lords, who spend their daysin good cheer and jollity, while so worthy a knight hazardshis life to win a miserable hamlet ?” Saying this, with thegay valour which has always distinguished the French nobi¬lity, he threw himself into the water, followed the king, andshared his danger. Bruce, having put all the garrison,both Scotch and English, to the sword, levelled the walls,and filled up the ditch. The terror of this example con¬strained Dumfries, Lanark, Ayr, and Bute, besides manyother places, to surrender. In the beginning of the spring,on Fastings-even, the night before Lent, usually celebratedby Bacchanalian rites, James Douglas surprised the castle ofRoxburgh while the garrison were engaged in their revels ;and, shortly after, the almost impregnable castle of Edinburghwas recovered by Thomas Randolph. The Isle of Man like¬wise surrendered, and the fortresses were everywhere de¬stroyed, lest they should afterwards prove receptacles for theEnglish.Edward, hearing of the great success which attended Bruce'scareer, resolved to raise a great army to extirpate a nation sooften rebellious, and always unquiet, hostile, and troublesome.In this army, which consisted of 100,000 fighting men, wereEnglish, Welsh, Irish, and those of the Scotch who still ad¬hered to the English faction, besides the crowd of servants,attendants, and sutlers, who brought provisions by sea andland to supi>ort them in a country not very fertile in itself,THE HISTORY OF14and which, had for so many years been the theatre of war :an immense multitude followed all, to be distributed incolonies, and receive lands, who had brought their wives andchildren along with them. England’s whole strength pre¬sented thus to view, produced such confidence in every breast,that the topic of conversation with this vast assemblage wasmore about the division of the spoil than about carrying onthe war.Bruce, being informed of the enemy’s great preparations,likewise arrayed his forces—a small number, indeed, againstsuch a multitude—only 30,000 men, but they were accustomedto war, were hardened by domestic sufferings, and carried intheir right hands their lives, their fortunes, and every hopethat is dear to man. With this little army he encamped onthe left side of the river Bannock, which has steep banks,few and narrow fords, and which is only two miles distantfrom Stirling. Below the hills, before it reaches the Forth,it passes through a country somewhat level, but impeded bymarshes in various places. For the most part in winter itrushes with a rapid torrent, but at the then Season of theyear, in consequence of the heats of midsummer, the waterswore low and fordable in many places. Bruce being inferiorin men was just the more anxious, by every possible art andstratagem, to render the passage of the river difficult to theEnglish, who occupied the right bank. He caused deepditches to be dug in the level places, in which he fixedsharp stakes in such a manner, that \yhen covered over withslight turf the deceit was concealed. He ordered iron cal¬trops—consisting of sharp spikes, which, however thrown,always, when lying, presents one or two of their points up¬wards—to be scattered wherever it appeared they would beserviceable.The two armies having now pitched near each other onopposite hills, with only a small river between, Edward sentfrom 'his camp, by rather a circuitous route, tSOO cavalry torelieve Stirling. Bruce, supposing these sent to plunder theadjoining fields, gave Thomas Randolph 500 horse to checkthe marauders and protect the country, and not to declinelighting if he saw a favourable opportunity. The .enemy,observing this detachment, desisted from their intendedmarch, ami wheeled upon Randolph’s party. The com¬bat was keenly coateded, victory inclining to neither side,when James Douglas, alarmed for his countrymen, en¬treated Bruce to allow him to goto their assistance. AsBruce had given strict orders to Randolph not to allow anysuccours to be thrown into Stirling, he refused him assist¬ance. “ Let him,” said he, “ redeem his own fault: I can-IKING ROBEKT BRXICE. 15not break the order of battle for his sake.” “ In truth,” re¬plied Douglas, “ I cannot stand by and sec Randolph perish,and, therefore, with your leave, I must aid him.” Bruce un¬willingly consented, and Douglas flew to his friend's assist-Iance. While approaching, he perceived the English werefalling into disorder, and that the perseverance of Randolphhad prevailed over their impetuous courage. “ Halt 1” criedDouglas, “ those brave men have repulsed the enemy ; let usI not diminish their glory by sharing it.”Bruce w'as in front of the line when the English appeared.: He was meanly dressed, with a crown above his helmet, anda battle-axe in his hand. Sir Henry de Bohun, an Englishknight, armed cap-a-pie, rode forward to encounter him.j Robert struck his antagonist so violently with his battle-axe(that he cleft him to the chin, after which the English van¬guard retreated in confusion. The Scottish geherals blamedtheir king for his rashness in thus encountering Bohun ; buti he, conscious of the justice of their charge, only replied, “ I| have broke my good battle-axe.”? On Monday, June 24, 1314, the whole English armyi moved on to the attack. The van, consisting of archers anda lancemen, was commanded by Gilbert de Clare, Earl of! Gloucester, nephew to the English king, and Humphry de: Bohun, constable of England ; but the ground was so nar¬row that the rest of the army had not sufficient room to ex¬pand itself, so that it appeared to the Scotch as consistingof one great compact body. The main body was brought upby Edward in person, attended by Amyer de Valence, Earlil of Pembroke, and Sir Giles d’Argentine, two experienced: commanders/ Maurice, Abbot of Inchalfray, placing himselfi on an eminence, celebrated mass in the sight of the Scottishi army. He then passed along the front, barefooted, with acrucifix in his hands, and, in few' words, exhorted the Scotsto fight for their king and country. The Scots fell down ontheir knees as he passed, which being perceived by Edward,he cried out, “ They yield ! See, they implore mercy ! ”“ They do,’’ answered Ingclram de Umphraville, one of hiscommanders ; “ they do implore mercy, but not from us.On that field they will he victorious or die.” As both par¬ties were violently exasperated against each other, the en¬gagement began with great fury. Bruce, perceiving that histroops W'ere grievously annoyed by the English archers, whosearrows were flying like flakes of snow, ordered Sir RobertKeith, the marischal, with a few armed horsemen, to make.acircuit, and attack the archers in flank. This was instantlyaccomplished, and as the weapons of the archers were uselessin a close encounter, they could make very little resistance.16 THB history opThe fine English cavalry rushed forward to support theirarchers ; but, coming over the ground which was dug full ofpits, the horses and riders fell into them, and a general dis¬order ensued. Bruce now advanced with all his forces, andpressed them more closely. The young and gallant Earl ofGloucester attempted to rally the fugitives, but was thrownfrom his horse and cut in pieces, which increased the generalconfusion. At this critical moment, an event happenedwhich helped to decide the victory :—In a valley to the rear,west of a rising ground, now called Gillies' Hill, Bruce hadstationed his baggage, under the charge of Wxc gillies or ser¬vants and followers of the camp. At the critical momentwhen the English line was wavering and confusion reignedon the left flank, these gillies, either from curiosity to be¬hold the battle, or with the design of assisting their country-' men, advanced to the summit of the hill, where, seeing theircompanions likely to gain the day, they began to descend thehill with loud re-echoing shouts, and, being taken for a re¬inforcement of the Scottish army, caused the English to giveway in the greatest confusion, who fled in every direction.Many sought refuge among the rocks in the neighbourhoodof Stirling Castle, and many were drowned in the rivers.Pembroke and Sir Giles d’Argentine had never quitted Ed¬ward during the action ; but now seeing the battle irre¬trievably lost, Pembroke constrained the king to quit thefield. D’Argentine refused to fly. He was a man of greatvalour, and had a high reputation in Scotland. He is said tohave thrice encountered two Saracen warriors at once in Pa¬lestine, and to have killed them both each time. His valournow availed him but little, for, rushing into the midst of the,Scottish army, he was instantly cut in pieces. Edward, in hisflight, was closely pursued by Douglas with a party of sixtyhorsemen. At the Torwood he met Sir Lawrence Abernethy,,who was hastening to the English rendezvous with twentyhorsemen. The latter soon abandoned the cause of the van¬quished, and joined Douglas in the pursuit of Edward, whofled to Linlithgow. He had scarcely arrived there whenhe was alarmed by the approach of the Scots, and again hewas obliged to fly. Douglas and Abernethy followed himwith the greatest assiduity, but, notwithstanding their ut¬most efforts, Edward got safe to Dunbar, fifty miles from thefield of battle, where he was received by the Earl of March,who protected him till he could be conveyed by sea to Eng¬land.Such was the decisive and glorious victory of Bannock¬burn, the greatest defeat the English ever sustained from theScots. On the side of the latter no persons of note were slain ‘KING ROBEKT BRT'CE.17t excepting Sir William Vipont, and Sir Walter Hoss, the fa¬vourite of Edward Bruce ; and so grievously was Edward af¬flicted by the death of this man, that he exclaimed, “ Oh[I that this day’s work were undone, so Eoss had not died ! ”On the English side were slain 27 barons and bannerets, andS 22 taken prisoners ; of knights there were killed 42, and 60■ taken prisoners; of esquires there fell 700 ; but the numberof the common men who were killed or taken was neverknown with certainty. The English, who had taken refuge: among the rocks in the neighbourhood of Stirling, surrendered' I at discretion: the castle was surrendered, and the privy sealM of England fell into the hands of the Scottish monarch.The spoils of the English camp were immense, and enriched1 the conquerors, along with the ransom of many noble prison-n ers who fell into their hands. Bnice shewed much generosityin his treatment of the prisoners who fell to his share. Heset at liberty Ralph de Monthermer and Sir MarmadukeTwerge, two officers of high tank, without ransom ; and byI humane and generous offices alleviated the misfortunes of the!<| rest. The dead bodies of the Earl of Gloucester and Lord'!| Clifford were sent to England, that they might be interredI with the usual solemnity. There was one Baston, a Carmelite1 friar and poet, whom Edward is said to have brought withli him in his train to be spectator of his achievements, and torecord his triumphs. Baston was made prisoner, and obligedill to celebrate the victory of Bruce over the English. This heill did in wretched Latin rhymes, which, however, procured hisill freedom.I After the battle of Bannockburn, the Earl of Hereford re-Jj treated to the castle of Bothwell, where he was besieged byI Edward Bruce, and soon obliged to surrender. He was ex-< changed for the wife, sister, and daughter of the king, the| young Earl of Mar, and the Bishop of Glasgow. The terror1 of the English was now almost incredible. Walsingham as-i sorts, that many of them revolted to the Scots, and assistedI them in plundering their own country. “ The English,” hei says, “ were so bereaved of their wonted intrepidity, that100 of that nation would have fled from two or three Scots¬men !”Edward Bruce and Douglas entered England on the eastside, ravaged Northumberland, and laid the bishopric of Dur¬ham under contribution. Thence they proceeded to Rich¬mond, laid Appleby and some other towns in ashes, and re-1 turned home laden with plunder. Edward summoned a Par-I liament at York, to concert means for the public security ;and appointed the Earl of Pembroke to be guardian of thecountry between tho Trent and the Tweed. Bruce, however,THE HI-'SOIIY OF]«gent ambassadors to treat of peace ; but the Scots were toomuch-elated with their good fortune to make concessions,and the English were not yet sufficiently humbled to yield toall their demands. The ravages of war were renewed. TheScots continued their incursions into England, and leviedcontributions in different places. In 1315, the English af¬fairs seemed to revive. The Scots, indeed, plundered Dur¬ham and Hartlepool, but they were repulsed from Carlisle,and failed in an attempt on Berwick.The Irish of Ulster, oppressed by the English Government,implored the assistance of Robert, and offered to acknowledgehis brother Edward as their sovereign, who, accordingly, land¬ed at Carrickfergus, May 25, 1315, with 6000 men. This wasan enterprise evidently beyond the power of Scotland to ac¬complish. However, there were motives which induced Ro¬bert to con,seat. The offer of a crown inflamed the ambitionof Edward Bruce, whose impetuous valour made no accountof difficulties however great. It might have been deemedungenerous, and perhaps impolitic, to have rejected the pro¬posals of the Irish for the advancement of his brother, towhom the king owed more than he could, repay. Besides,the invasion of Ireland seemed a proper expedient for divid¬ing the English forces. But the issue proved unfortunate.'The king himself bad gone over into Ireland to assist bisbrother in attempting the subjection of that country ; and,during his absence, the English had made several attemptsto disturb the tranquillity of Scotland.The Earl of Arundel invaded the forest of Jedburgh witha numerous army ; but being drawn into an ambuscade byDouglas, he was defeated with great loss. Edmund de Cail-laud, a knight of Gascony and governor of Berwick, invadedand wasted Teviotdale ; but while he was returning home,!laden with spoil, he was attacked, defeated, and killed byDouglas. Soon after this, intelligence was conveyed toDouglas, that one Robert Neville had boasted that he wouldencounter him whenever he saw his banner displayed. Dou¬glas soon gave him an opportunity. He advanced towardsBerwick, displayed his banner, and burnt some villages.Neville, provoked at these ravages, took the field, encounteredDouglas, but was defeated and slain.By sea the English invaded Scotland, and anchored off In-verkeithing, in the Frith of Forth, where they soon afterlanded: 500 men, under the Earl and Sheriff of Fife, at¬tempted to oppose their landing, but were intimidated by thenumber of their enemies. William Sinclair, Bishop of Dun-keld, happened to meet the fugitives, and having, by his re¬proaches, obliged them to rally, he led them on again to theKINfi ROrtf.KT BRUCF.19charge, and drove the English to their ships with consider¬able loss. For this exploit, Hebert conferred the title of theKing's Bishop on Sinclair ; and he was long venerated byhis countrymen on this account.In 1318, King Robert proceeded in his enterprise againstBerwick. A citizen of that town, named Spalding, havingbeen ill used by the governor, resolved to revenge himself,and, therefore, wrote a letter to a Scottish lord, whose rela¬tion he had married, offering, on a certain night, to betraythe post when he kept guard. The nobleman communicatedthis important intelligence to the king, who commanded himto repair to a certain place with a body of troops, to whichplace he also gave separate orders to Douglas and Randolphto repair at the same hour, each with a body of troops underhis command. The forces thus cautiously assembled marchedto Berwick, and, assisted by Spalding, scaled the walls, mak¬ing themselves masters of the town in a few hours. Thegarrison of the castle, perceiving that the number of Scotswas but small, made a desperate sally with the men who hadfled into the castle from the town ; but, after an obstinateconflict, they were defeated and driven back, chiefly by theextraordinary valour of a young knight, named Sir WilliamKeith of Galston, March 28, 13] R. King Robert no soonerheard of the success of his forces against the town than hehastened to lay siege to the castle of Berwick, which wassoon obliged to capitulate ; after which the Scots enteredNorthumberland, and took the castles of Wark, Harbottle,and Mitfofd.In May 1318, they again invaded England, and penetratedinto Yorkshire. In their progress, they burnt the towns ofNorthallerton, Boroughbridge, Scarborough, and Skipton inCraven, forcing the inhabitants of Ripon to redeem them¬selves by paying 1000 merks : after wrhich they returned toScotland with much booty ; and, as an English historian ex¬presses it, ,f driving their prisoners before them like flocksof sheep.”In 1319, Edward, having obtained the interposition of thePope, made similar attempts with other powers to the pre¬judice of the Scottish nation. Accordingly, he requested theEarl of Flanders to prohibit the Scots from entering hiscountry ; but to this request he received the following re¬markable reply: “ Flanders is the common country of allmen : I cannot prohibit any merchants from traffickingthither, for such prohibition would prove the ruin of mypeople.” On this, Edward once more determined to haverecourse to war; and with this view commanded his army toassemble at Newcastle-upon-'l'yne, July 24, 1319. EveryTHE HISTORY OF20thing being in readiness, the English army approached Ber¬wick, which was commanded by Walter, grand Steward ofScotland. This nobleman had long apprehended an attackfrom the English, and had taken every means of defence inhis power. The enemy, however, confiding in their numbers,made a general assault, but were repulsed on the 7th of Sep¬tember alter a most obstinate contest. Their next attemptwas on the side towards the river. At that time the walls ofBerwick were of an inconsiderable height, and it was pro¬posed to bring a vessel close to them, from whence the troopsmight enter by a drawbridge let down from the mast; butthe Scots annoyed the assailants so much that they could notbring the vessel within the proper distance ; and at the ebbof the tide it grounded, and was burnt by the besieged. TheEnglish had then recourse to a newly invented engine, whichthey called a sow. It was a large fabric composed of timber,and well roofed, having stages within it, and in height sur¬passing the wall of the town. It moved on wheels, andserved for the double purpose of conducting the miners to thefoot of the wall, and armed men to the storm. The greatengine moved on to the walls, and, at length, a huge stonestruck it with such force that the beams gave way, and theScots pouring down combustibles upon it, it was burnt. TheEnglish, however, still continued the attack. The Steward,with the reserve of 100 men, went from post to post, re¬lieving those who were wounded or unfit for combat. Onesoldier of the reserve only remained with him when an alarmwas given that the English had burnt a barrier at the portcalled St Mary’s, possessed themselves of the drawbridge, andfired the gate. The Steward hastened thither, called downthe guard from the rampart, ordered the gate to be set open,and rushed out upon the enemy. A desperate combat en¬sued, and continued till the close of the day, when the Eng¬lish commanders withdrew their troops. Notwithstandingthis brave defence, it was evident that the town could nothold out long without a speedy relief; and Robert could not,with any probability of success, attack the fortified camp ofthe English. He, therefore, determined to make a powerfuldiversion in England, to oblige Edward to abandon the under¬taking. By order of the king, 15,000 men entered Englandby the western marches, and laid waste Yorkshire. TheArchbishop of York hastily collected a numerous body ofcommons and ecclesiastics, with whom he encountered theScots at Mitton, near Boroughbridge, in the North Riding ofYorkshire. The English were instantly routed, 3000 were leftdead on the field, and a great part of those who fled perishedin the Swale. In this action 300 ecclesiastics lost their lives.KING ROBERT BRUCE.21| The news of this successful inroad alarmed the besiegers of1 Berwick. The barons, whose estates lay to the southward,i remote from the Scottish depredations, were eager for con-i tinuing the siege. But they were opposed by those of thenorth, who were no less eager to abandon the enterprise, andj return to the defence of their own country. With them the"Earl of Lancaster concurred in opinion; who, understandingI that his favourite manor of Pontefract was exposed to the; rav;tges of the Scots, departed with all his adherents. Uponj this, Edward drew off the remainder of his army, and at-i tempted to intercept Randolph and Douglas, but they eludedhim, and returned in safety to Scotland. The failure of this[last attempt induced Edward seriously to think of peace;land, accordingly, a truce was concluded, December 31,1319 ;which interval of tranquillity the Scots made Hise of to ad-: dress a manifesto to the Pope in justification of their cause.I This was drawn up in a spirited manner, and made a veryi considerable alteration in the councils of Rome. The Pope,| seeing that Bruce would not be terrified into submission, or-iljdered Edward to make peace with him in the best manneri he could. A negociation was, accordingly, set on foot, which| soon terminated ineffectually; the truce was not renewed;and in 1322 a mutual invasion took place. The Scots pene-i trated into Lancashire by the western marches, and, afterI plundering the country, returned home with an extraordinaryI booty; while Edward made great preparations for an expedi-ition into Scotland, which took place in August. In this,however, he was unsuccessful. Bruce had caused all the<3 cattle to be driven off, and all the effects of value removed: from Lothian and the Merse, fixing his camp at Culross, on| the north of the river Forth. Edward, however, penetrated■, as far as Edinburgh, but without hopes of subduing the king-' dom. For want of provisions many of his soldiers perished,i and he was at last constrained to retire without having seen: the enemy.On their return to England, Edward’s soldiers burnt theabbeys of Holyfood, Melrose, Dryburgh, <fcc., and killed manyof the monks. As soon as they retired, they were pursued1 by the Scots, who laid siege to the castle of Norham. Ed¬ward lay at the abbey of Biland, in Yorkshire, with a body oftroops advantageously posted near it. The Scots attemptedto surprise the king, and it was with the utmost difficultythat he escaped to York, leaving all his baggage and treasureto the enemy. The English camp was supposed to be acces¬sible only by a narrow pass, but Douglas undertook to forceit, and Randolph presented himself as a volunteer in thisdangerous service, under his friend Douglas. The High-THE nrsTOKV OF22landers and men of the Isles climbed the precipice on whichthe English camp stood, and the enemy were driven out with,great loss. The Scots pursued them to the gates of York,wasted the country without control, and returned home un¬molested.Edward, disheartened by repeated losses, agreed to a cessa¬tion of arms, from March 30, 1323, to June 12, 1336. Thaitreaty was ratified by Robert, as King of Scotland, June 7,1323. Robert’s next care tvas to reconcile himself to thechurch, and to obtain from the Rope the title of King, whichhad been so long denied him ; which at last, with difficulty,,Avas obtained.In the beginning of 1327, Edward II. was deposed, and.barbarously murdered in Berkeley Castle by Gournay and,Mautravers. He was succeeded by his son, Edward III'-,.,then in the 15th year of his age. He renewed the negocia-tions for peace, and ratified the truce which his father had,made; but hearing that the Scots had resolved to invaddEngland if a peace was not immediately concluded, he sumbmoned his barons to meet him in arms at ^Newcastle ; andfortified York. On June 15, 1327, Douglas and Randolphinvaded England by the western marches, with an armyof 20,000 horsemen. Against them Edward led an army ofat least 30,000 men, who assembled at Durham on the 13thof July. The Scots proceeded with the utmost cruelty, burn¬ing and destroying everything as they went along; and on,the 18th of the same month, the English discovered them bythe smoke and flames which marked their progress. Theymarched forward in order of battle towards the quarter whore!the smoke was perceived, but, meeting with no enemy tor’two days, they concluded that the Scots had retired. Dis- :encumbering themselves there of their heavy baggage, theyresolved, by a forced march, to reach the river Tyne, and, byposting themselves on the north bank of that river, to inter¬cept the Scots on their return. On the 20th of July, the:cavalry, having left the infantry behind, crossed the river at;Halidon ; but before the rest of the army could come up, the:river rvas so swollen by sudden rains, that it could no longerbe forded ; and thus the English troops remained divided for’several days, without any accommodation for quarters, and in.the greatest want of provisions and forage. The soldiers nowbegan to murmur, and it was resolved again to proceed south¬wards. The king proclaimed a reward of lauds, to the value:of ,£100 yearly for life, to the person who should first discoverthe enemy “ on dry ground, where they might be attackedand many knights and esquires swam across the river on this,strange errand. The army continued its march for threeKING KOKrcUT BRUCE.23days, when they came in sight of the enemy. The Scotswere advantageously posted on a rising ground, having theriver Wear in front, and their flanks secured by rocks andprecipices. The English dismounted and advanced, hopingto allure the Scots from their strong post, but in vain. Ed¬ward then sent a herald to Randolph and Douglas, with amessage in the style of chivalry : “ Either,” said Re, “ sutlerme to pass the river, and leave me room for ranging my forces ;or do you pass the river, and I will leave you room to rangeyours ; and thus shall we fight on equal terms.” To this theScottish commanders replied, “ We will do neither. On ourroad hither we have burnt and spoiled the country, and herewe are fixed while to us it seems good ; and if the king ofEngland is oflended, let him come over and chastise us.”The armies continued in the sight of each other for twodaysafter which, the English, understanding that their enormies were-distressed for provisions, resolved to maintain aclose blockade, and to reduce them by famine. Next day,however, they were surprised to find that the Scots had se¬cretly decamped, and taken up their post two miles up theriver in ground still stronger, and of more difficult access,amidst a great wood. The English encamped opposite tothem near Stanhope Park. At midnight, Douglas undertooka most desperate enterprise, resembling those of ancientheroes. With 200 horsemen he approached the Englishcamp, and entered it under the guise of a chief commandercalling the rounds. Having thus eluded the sentinels, hepassed on to the royal quarters, overthrew everything that op¬posed him, and furiously assaulted the. king’s tent. Thedomestics of Edward desperately defended their master ; andhis chaplain, with many *thers of his household, were slain.However, the king himself escaped ; and Douglas, disappoint¬ed of his prey, rushed through the enemy, and effected a re¬treat with inconsiderable loss. Two days after, the Scots re¬tired to their own country, which, when Edward was as¬sured of, he burst into tears ; for the enterprise, which thusterminated in disappointment and dishonour, had cost an im¬mense sum. Every preparation had been made, and auxi¬liaries had even been procured, at a most enormous expense,from Hainault. These consisted of heavy-armed cavalry ;and they were now so much worn out that they couldrcarcely move. The few living horses were become unser¬viceable, in a campaign of three weeks ; so that they wereobliged to procure horses to convey them to the south ofEngland.In 1328, Edward, wearied out with continual losses anddisappointments, consented to a perpetual peace between the24 THE HISTORY OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.two kingdoms, on the following conditions :—1. The stone onwhich the kings of Scotland were wont to sit at the time oftheir coronation, shall be restored to the Scots. 2. The kingof England engages to employ his good offices at the Papalcourt for obtaining a revocation of all spiritual processes de¬pending before the Holy See against the king of Scots, oragainst his kingdom or subjects. 3. For these causes, and tomake reparation for the ravages committed in England by theScots, shall pay 30,000 merks to the king of England. 4.Restitution shall be made of the possessions belonging toecclesiastics in either kingdom, whereof they may have beendeprived during the war. 5. But there shall not be any resti¬tution made of inheritances which have fallen into the handsof the king of England, or of the king of Scots, by reason ofthe war between the two nations, or through the forfeitureof former possessions. 6. Johanna, sister of the king of Eng¬land, shall be given in marriage to David, son and heir to ithe king of Scots. 7. The king of Scots shall provide thePrincess Johanna in a jointure of £2000 yearly, secured onlands and rents, according to a reasonable estimation. 8. Ifeither of the parties shall fail in performing these conditions,he shall pay 2000 pounds of silver to the Papal treasury.But good King Robert did not long survive this joyful event.Finding that he was dying, he requested to see his counsellorsand friends whom he most trusted. He told them that hesorely repented of all his misdeeds, especially of having slainthe Red Comyn before the holy altar ; and that, if he hadlived, it was his intention, in expiation of this offence, tohave gone to the Holy Land, and made war against the ene¬mies of the Cross. He requested his dearest friend andgreatest warrior, good Lord James Douglas, that he shouldcarry his heart to Jerusalem, to be deposited in the Saviour’ssepulchre. On the 7th of June 1329 King Robert died, aged55, unquestionably the greatest of all the Scottish monarchs.His death seems to have been occasioned by the excessivefatigues of military service ; and his disease, called by his¬torians of those times a leprosy, vias probably an inveteratescurvy, occasioned by his way of living. His heart was takenout, embalmed, and put into a silver case.Douglas set out with his precious charge, but he never gotto the end of his journey, having been slain in a battle withthe Moors in Spain. His body, which was found lying onthe field of battle, with Bruce’s heart under him, werebrought home ; the former was buried in the church ofDouglas, and the latter deposited in Melrose Abbey.James Brydone, Printer, 17 South Hanover Street, Edinburgh.