THE%Comical HistoryOFSIMPLE JOHN,AND HIStwelve misfortunes,Which happened all inTwelve Days afterthe unhappy day of his marriage.STIRLING tFRINTTIB BY WILLIAM MACNI1,And Sold WhoUsult Mid lUtoil.1828.* o? smuiro r)THECOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMPLE JOHN,AND HIS- TWELVE MISFORTUNES.Simple John was a widow’s sob,and £ coarse country weaver to bistrade. He made nothing but such ascanvass for caff-beds, eorn and coalsicks, drugget a«nd harn was the finestwebs he could lay his fingers to : he wasa great lump of a lang, lean lad, abooas«x feet afore he was aughteea yearauld j and, he said hinasel*, he grewsae fast, and was in sic a hurry t© behigh, that he did not stay to bring a,his judgement with him, but yet hehoped it would follow him, and hewould meet wi't, as mony a an* does3after they’re married, tfe had but aesister, and she had as little sense ashimsel’, she was married on Sleeky Wil¬lie, the wilie weaver; his mither was arattling rattle-scull'd wife, and they liv¬ed a’ in ae house, and every body heldthem as a family of fools. When Johncame to man’s estate, to the age oftwenty-one years, he told his mitherhe would hae a wife o’ some sort, eitheryoung or auld, widow or lass, if theyhad but head and lips, tongue and tail,he shou’d tak them, and weei I wat,mithtr, quoth he, they’ll get a lumpingpenny-worth o’ me get me wha will.His mither tells him t>’ the blackbutcher on Ti’ot-side, wha had threedoughters, and every ane o* them hadsomething, there was Kate, Ann, andGirzy, had a hundred merks the piece.Kate and Ann had baith bastards.Girzy the eldest had, a humph back, ahigh-breast, baker legged, a short wryneck, thrawn mouth, and goggle ey’d,a perfect JEsop of the female kind, withas many crocked conditions within aswithout, a very lump of loun-like ili-nature, row’d a’ together, as if ^he had4been nine months in a baggies, a se¬cond ediflon of crook backed Rich¬ard, an old English King, that wasborn with teeth to bite a‘ around a-bout him, and yet the wight gaed madto be married.John's mither told him the roadwhere to go, and what to say, and acncordingly he sets put wi* his Sunday's!coat on, and a' his braws, and a painof new pilIonian breeks o' his mither'tfmaking. In he comes and tail'dhis errand before he would sit downsays good day to you, goodman, wha,are you a' doing here ? I am wantinga wife, an ye're a flesher, and has a gud-sorting aside you, my mither says ycan sair me or ouy body like me, whasay ye tilH, goodman? IJow mondouchters bee ye? Are they a' mairied yet ? I fain wad tak a look o' son}o* thtm gin ye like.A wow, sail the good wife, come iby, honest lad, and rest ye, an ye !a wooer sit down and gte's a scuffA deed good wife, I bae nae mills bmy mither's, and it's at hacne,—wbawin ye l‘se no ken ye? I wat, qfrs;5he, tny name's Jock Sandyman, theyca‘ me Simple John the sack.weaver.I hae nae tocher but my loom, a pirn-'wheel, a kettle pat, a brass pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candle-stick, agood cock, a cat, twa errocks new be¬gun to lay; my sister Sara is marriedon Sleeky Willie the wylie weaver, and1 maun hae a hagwife or my mitberdie, for truely she's very frail, and onyharl o‘ health she has is about dinner¬time ; what say ye till‘t goodman ?can ye buckle me or not ?Goodman.) A dear John, ye‘re in anunco haste, ye wadna hae your wifehame wi‘ ye ? they're a' there beforeye, which o' them will ye tak ?Hout, tout, says John, ony o' themwill sair me, but my mither says there'stwa o' them has fauts. And what istheir fauts ? says the goodwife, Hout,said John, it's no meikle faut, but Idinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shall I dowi' them ? said the goodman.John.) A deed, goodman, as ye're aydealing among dead beasts and livingbeasts, I wad put them awa amang i-6Idler beasts, or gin ye be aun ony pen*ny, let somebody tak them up o’ des¬perate debt, I sud flie the fvkes fraelthem, they anger’d you, and sham’dyou baitn with their, bastards, a wheendaft jades it gets men or they be nlar-**ied, and bainis or they get bridals.Goodmfe.) A wat wed that's truelad.Girzy.) A we d, John, then, will yetak me ; I hae nae bastards ; bow will!you and l do ?John.) I wat na gin ye be able to ceta bastard yet ye may hae some waur‘fout; but ye maun be. my penny-worth,!for ye’re unco little, and I’m o’er muc-kle, and gin ye and I war ance cardefithrough ither, vve mav get bonny wesnato’ a middlen mak. 1 hae nae fautstoye, but ye hae a high breast, a humpbfback, a short neck, and high shouthers.the hands and legs may do, tho’ yourmouth be a wee to the tae side, it willlie weel to the rock, and I hae a hanitie o* tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down ; a perfect beauty,wi* cats yellow een, black brous, and7re3 lips, and your very nose is a purplecolour ; ye hae nae fauts at a‘: Novr,\shan will we be married.Girzy,') Ha, ha, John lad, we mauntbiiik on that yet.John.) What the yeltow, lass, shouldna ye be ready whan 1‘m ready, andevery body says that the woman's ay| ready.. Goodman.) Ye‘ll hae to comebackand bring somebody wi‘ you, and we‘11gree about it, and set the day whanye‘ll be married.Jo/u.) A wee!, goodsnan, I‘ll tell mymithtr o‘t, and come back on Morion-day, and we'd hae a chappin o4 ale, androasted cheese on the chance o*t, butI maun hae a word o‘ the bride.out by,to convoy me, and a quiet speak to her-sel, about it.Goodwije.) A wow na, John, thedaft louns will laugh at you, and she‘11think shame, gang ye out by, andshe‘11 speak to you through the gavelwindow.Out goes John, and the bride andher twa sisters goes to the window. within to hear the diversion, and whathe would say. Now says John, Girzy,wy dear, my braw pretty woman, an.ye be in earnest, tell me, for by mysutli Pm no scorning.Girzy.) Indeed, John, Pm very wil-ling to tak ye, but ye needna tell e-very body about it.John.) Then gie me a kiss on that.He shuts his head in at the window,making a lang neck to win down toher, and she stood on a little stool towin up to him. O, cries he, an yewere good flesh I could eat you a’, l likeyou sae weel j it’s a pity there is sic ahard wa’ between us, Pse teil my mithersae bonny as ye are : O gie me ankherkiss yet, and then Pll go. One of hersisters standing by in a dark corner, getsha’d o’ a cow’s head, which wanted athe skin but about the mouth, and shutsit out towards his mouth, which hekiss’d in the dark. O cries he, butyour mouth be cauld since I kiss’d yelast, and I think ye hae a beard, 1 sawnae that before, or is’t wi* spinning towthat maks your mouth sae rough at een ?Hame he comes, and tells his raitherthe speed and properties of the marriage.9A’ things was got ready, and next weekSleeky Willie the weaver and him cameto gree the marmge, and stay a’ nightwi’ the bride, and teach John goodmanners, for whan John was hungryhe minded his meat mair than his g»odbehe&yiour, and he never was fa* tillthe dish was tume. Willie the weaverwas to tramp on his fit, when hethought he had suppet aneugh ; so allthings being agreed upon short andeasy terms, and the wedding hay set,they were to be three times cry’d onSunday, and xuitely married on Mon-onday, neither piper nor fiddler to beemployed, but sweith awa hame fraethe Minister, and into the bed amangthe blankets ; Ha, ha, cried John,that’s the best o’tNow every thing being concludedand proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat haggles, the very smell wada done a hungry body gude, but Johnhad only got twa or three soups, untilone of the butcher’s meikle dogs tram¬ped on John’s fit, which he took to bethe weaver, and then he would eat nae»air. After supper they went to bed10John and the weaverl ay together, andthen he abuse i the weaver fortramping sae soon which ,he denied ;but O, said John, there’s a hantle o’tleft, and I saw whare it was set, they’rea’ sleeping, I’ll go rise an tak a soup o’tyet. Ay, een do sae, said sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Awaythen John goes to the amry, and laysto the baggies, till his ain baggies couldbaud uae mair; then brought some toSleeky Willie ; but, instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bnde and the twa sisters lay,they being fast asleep, speaks slowly,Will \e tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, lie turns up theblankets to put a S'»up into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing so, he putsa great spoonful dose into one of theirbacksides. JSietky Willie hears a’ thatpast, comes out the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dishwhere it was, leav s the arary door o*pen, to let the cats get the blame ofsupping the baggies, and awa they go tobed ; but poor Joan could getnae sleeptor drouth ; up he gets in search of the11water-cann, and finding an empty pit¬cher, puts in his hand to find if therewas any w*ater in it, but finding nane,he closed his hand when it was within,the pitcher, and then could not get itout,’’Hoes to the bed and tells SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and goout to a knocking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make a,noise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gottenthe great spoonful of the haggles laidto her backside, was out before him,rubbing the nastiness (as she took it tobe) cfi‘ the tail of her sark, and shebeing in a looting posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes o’erhei hurdies with the pitcher, till it flewin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright, round a turf-stack, andinto the house before him. John camein trembling to the bed again, wi’ thefright praying to preserve him, for sica knocking-stane he never yet saw, forit ran clean awa when he broke thepig upon't.12Now John was furnished in a houseby his father-in-law; the bed, the loom,heddles, treadles, thrumbs, reed, andpirn-wheel, was a‘ brought and set upbefore the marriage, which was kepta profound secret ; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and hisain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andhis wife made up some articles, howthey were to work, and keep bouse :John was to keep the house in meat,meal, fire, and water ; Girzy was to makthe meat, and keep the house in clothes;the fafeher-in-law to pay the rent forthree years ; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, until they had children ; andtheir first child was to be a John afterits ain Daddy, get it whs will, if aboy ; and if a girl, Girzy, after its ainrainny, as ye said wha wrought bestfbr‘t.13MISFORTUNE I.Then she ordered John to rise andbegin his wark, by putting on a fire,and to tak the twa new pigs and gangto the well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone outwith a pig in every hand* then a’ theboys and girls being gathered in a crowdto see him, gave a loud huzza, and clap,ping their hand^ at him, poor John,not knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his handstoo, and not minding the twa pigs,clashes the tane against the tither, tillbaith went to pieces, and that was acheerful huzza to baith young and culdthat was looking at him : Girzel thewife draws him into his house, and tohim she flies with the wicked wife’sweapon, her Tongue and Fangs, andimade his ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye was daft, but I’ll ding theIdaffing out o’ ye, I'll begin wi’ you asI’ve a mind to end wi' you.” PoorJohn sat crying and clawing his lugs14“ lla, ha,” said he, “ its nae bairn’splay to be married, I find that al¬ready.” His mither in-law came iaand made up peace, went to a cooper,and got them a big wooden stoup tocarry in their water.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning, John was sent to theFlesh-market an eirand to his Father-in-law, who gave him a piece of fleshto carry home, and as he was comingout of the market, he saw six or sevenof the flesher dogs fail on and worry atapoorcounirj colly dog ; “Justice, Jus¬tice,” cries John to the dogs, “ ye’rebut a wheen unm*nnerlv raskals, thatfa’s a’ on ae poor beast, heth ye sudea’ be put in the toubuoth, and ta’en tothe bailies, a*d hanged for the like o’ "that j it’s perfict murder,” and in he ^runs amongst the dogs, “ And be bang’d 1to you a’ the gither, What is the quar¬rel ? What is the quarrel ? John flings-down the flesh he had carrying, and.?grips the colly, who took John for an ■15enemy too, and bites his hand till theblood followed, the whole of the tykescomes a, on poor John, till down hegoes in the din amongst their feet, andone of the dogs runs off with the flesh,so John went hame both dirty andbloody and without his flesh, tola Girzybow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and longue, nfladeJohn to curse the very minister thatmarried them, and wished he migh-tne'er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent to theI well with the great stoup to bring inwater ton breakfast; and as he was pull¬ing the stoup out of the well, in he tum¬bles and his head down, the well beingnarrow, he could na win out: some peo¬ple passing by chance, heard the slunge,cried, and run to h?s relief, haul’d himout half dead, and helped him into thehouse ; and after getting a dry sark, Inewas comforted with the old plaister,her Tongue and hard Tang's.16MISFORTUNE IV.Next day, she says, John, I mustgo to the market myself, for if you goyou*il fight wi* the dogs, and let themrun awa wi* ony thing you buy : seethat ye put on the pat, hae’t boilingagain I come hame. John promisedweel, but performs very badly. She’sno sooner gone, than he puts on thenew pat, without any water in it, anda good fire to make it boil, and awayhe goes to the unhappy well, fills hisstoup, and sets it down to look at aparcel of boys playing at cat and dog,they persuaded John to take a game wi’them, on he plays, till ane o’ the boyscries, Hey John, yonders your Girzycoming. John runs into the housewi’ the water, and the pat being redhot Qn the fire, be tumes in the cauldwater into it, which made the pat fleeall in pieces, just as she was enteringthe door. John runs for it, and sheruns after him, crying, catch the thief,some persons stopped him j she comesi17up, and then she laboured him ail theway hame, and he crying, “ O Sirs,ye see what it is to be married I”The mither-in-law had to make uppeace again, and he promised goodbeheaviour in time to come.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent himto the waier to wash some cows’s pud¬dings, and turn them on a spindle,shewing him how he was to do or hewent away. John goes to the watervery willingly, and as he turired andwashed them, he laid them down be-hind him, where one of his Father-in-laws’s big dogs stood, and ate them upas fast as he laid them down, till all wasgone but the very last ane, which hecarried hame in his hand, crying like achild, and underwent a severe tost of theold plaister before any mercy was shewn.MISFORTUNE VI.His Father-in-law, next day, sent him1• 18 -a^- y ta bring ho;ne a fit calf he hadboug i in the c< , . , and tiSd up thehoc '-‘y in uni hich he carried inhis h;»; i far tear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty as it was all in half,pence, and as he was going alongntbridge, he meets a r an running alter a \horse, who cries l< John to stop thehorse; John meets hi u on the top ofthe bridge, end wht": he would not beslopped for him, he knocks the horseorv the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most ofthe halfpence flew over the bridge in thewater, which maderpoor John go homecrying very bitterly for his loss, anddread of the old plaister, which he gotvery sickeriy.MISFORTUNE VII.©n the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he co.ddfind any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismoney, he kills one ot them, and rips~—1—-19her up, but found none of it in her gutsor gabbi*; then says he, th^y have beenbut looking for it, FU go do as they did;strips offhis clothes ond leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a tiuckir.g, in whichtime, a ragman came past, and took a-way all his. clothes. So he .went homenaked to get a bath of the old plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.The next morning, she sent him to afarn-house for a pig-ful of butter-milk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s b|uli and another bullwas fighting ; the farmer’s bull being liketo lose, John runs in behjn \ him, andsets fyis head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theOther ; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be¬hind, fled aside, and the other hull camefull drive upon John, pushed him downbroke the pig, ami spftt the milk. SoJohn went home to get his auki plaister,which began to be an usual diet to him,and so he regarded it the less.MISFORTUNE IX.His mother~m4aw, with several auUwitty wives, held a private council onJohn(s conduct, and bad luck, and con.eluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a* his misfortunes, ca‘d him a war-lock to his face, and said, he had pu|such a black bargain in his hand, thathe was ruined for ever : insisted eitherto unmarry them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa, forshe has a lump of mischief on her backand aenither oa her breast, and the resto‘ her body is a clean deif. The Min¬ister began to exhort him to peace andpatience, telling him that marriageswere made in heaven : “Ye're a baistliar, says John, for I was married inyour ain kitchen, and a* the blackguardsin the town was there, and it had abeen a heaven they wadna win in, yet tellme that matrimony was sic a happystate, but had ye gotten as mony weei*1w«el pay'd skins as I hae gotten, ye wada kend what it is ; ill chance on you sir';and out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking the Min¬ister's windows for which he waseatcht and put twa hours in the stocks,and at last his lump of corruption cameand rubbed his lugs, threw his nose,got him out, and drove him home be¬fore her, took a resolution never toset him about any business in timeeaming but keep him on his loom.MISFORTUNE X.Now .she gave him no sleep a* thatnight for scolding. John got up iathe morning langor day, and left hisTormentor in bed, fell asleep cpon hisloom with the candle in his band, andso set the web, heddles, reed, and trea¬dle cords in a fire. By chance his oldViper looked out of the bed, or thewhole house had been gone. Up shegot, and with her cries alarmed theneighbourhood who came to her relief;22but poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XI.After the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopfe, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next day,having nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen's nest, which had ta’ensome by-place to lay tier eggs in : so aspoer Jonn was in an auld kill searchinga’ about the walls, the kill-nbs brokeand down he goes with a vengeanceinto the logie, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner; up he couldnot win, but had to creep' out at thelogie below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose a' running o* blood.In this condition she pitied ami la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed ; then satdown very kindly, saying, “ My dear,and my lamb, do ye think there is onyo’ your banes broken ; and what parto’ you is sairest ? And what will 1 get23to do good? Oh !” said he, “ Girzy,I’m a’ brizzled atween the feet." " Areye indeed?" quoth she, " then I wishye had broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anitber, useless ae way, anduseless raae ways, upo* my word, “ ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like."MISFORTUNE Xil.Now, as poor John was turned outh>* doors next morning, to go awa* hirp-ting on a staff; one came and told him^ lie mother had died last night. Ohnoch 1 said John, and is my mithex clean'•'ilead! O an she wad but Look downbrought the lift, and see how I’m guid-id this morning., I’m sure she wad sendJieath for me too. I’m out o’ a mithef■ nd out o’ a wife, out o’ my health and: rength, and a’ my worklooms. His' if other, io Jaw came and pleaded forim: Baud your tongue, Mitlber,iid Girzy, if ye kend what ail’d himi wadna speak about him, he‘s useless,» worth the keeping in a house, butr ca’ him to die like an auld beast at a24dykeside. 'Hout tout, co th"? auld.wife, we’ll iisak o' him and he’ll mendragain. So John got peace made up afr;tee a’, and he was easier mended tharathe burnt web ; got all his tradies andjwarklooms set in order, the wife ftongue excepted, which was made owormwood, and the rest of her bodjjof sea water, which is always in «continual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Juryif it be not easier to deal wi* foolthan headstrong fashtous fouks; ownthe has but an empty skull, but hiwicked wife wants wdt ta pour judgtment into it, never tells him o’ dangttill it comes upon him, for his mot!er said he was a biddable bairn, if onbody had been to learn him wit.FINIS,