TSIEH I ST O R Y. 0FMON TEL LI ON,THE MOST VALIANT ANI> RENOWNEDENIGHT or the ORACLE.on to Pericles, the valiant Knight of Aflyria, and theil fair Conitantia, the Daughter of the Emperor offl Perfia. Containing many ftrange and wonderful Ad -hi ventures of his Parents, relating to their Love-Ex-ill ploits.G L A S G O W,PRINTED BY J. AND M. ROBERTSON.t8o2.THEHISTORYOFMONTELLIORCHAP. I.The Birth and Adventures of PericlefKing of AfTyria; he falls in Lovewith the Emperor of Perfia’s Daugh?ter; his adventures for her Sake.JN former times there reigned in Af-fyria an ancient King named Picug,who had two children, a fon namedPericles, famous for valour; and adaughter named Piera, famous forbeauty.—The King growing old, re»figned his crown to his fon, and mar¬ried his daughter to Deloratus, fon tothe emperor of Perfia. At this wed^.iding Pericles fell in love with the em-}peror’s youngeft daughter Conftantia j;but in the midft of the rejoicings news. ;was brought of the old King’s hiddendeath. This fad event foonfpread all overthe neighbouring countries, and theArminian's threatening to invade Af- >(fyria, King Pericles was obliged to de-pare priv.atelyj leaving with his fillerTHE HISTORY, &c. 3Piera a letter full of love to the fair| Conftanria.While Conflantia was hoping forthe return of her lover, Pericles; He-lion, fon of the King of Arabia, de¬manded her in marriage, t» which herfather confented; and going to theprincefs Ihe rejedted his love, tellinghim plainly, her heart was fixed uponianother, and though her father threa¬tened her, it fhould avail nothing. So,i{he fent and told Pericles of it, whoreturned to the court in the difguife of1 hermit; where he found means tomake himfelf known toConftantia, wholonveyed him to her chamber, wherenhey confirmed their love.—The timedrawing near wherein her father refolv-fd to. marry her to Helion, Ihe agreed(O make her efcape with him into Af-tyria; and changing clothes with a,, ijountry girl, they met in a grove, andnot off undifeovered. Conftantia’smaid kept the country wench all night,ind laid her in the prirreefs’s bed: but. '|Ielion thinking to ravifh the princefs,jot into her chamber and went to bed"•f the home-fpun Sylvias, who thinkingthe fafhion, willingly yielded to hisE HISTORY 7 whofe willingnefs and kindearefles fo pleafed him, that thoughhe was furprifed to find his miftake inthe mornings yet now his love turnedinto hatred againfi: Conftantia foe thisdeceit; and he foon after, by the con-*lent of her poor parents, married her;yet kept it concealed a while for diversreafons.t he many Troubles of Pericles and*Conftantia.T" HE'two lovers thus efcaped, tr?veiled all night, till coming to'hepherd’s cottage,' they were weicotm# OF MONTELLiON. . ^ 5eci ill by the fhepherd aad his wife; buc.ti>e iioufe not airlnding proper refreili-ment, the king gave him forne go id,defiring them to get better. This madethe aid couple fui’peci they were gran¬der than tneir habit (hewed, however,both fhe and her aufbhud were trufty,and the King andPrincd^ weie yuvate-iy married in a cell by an old Monk;and in a homely bed enjoyed theirwifn’d for defires.The n^xc morning as they were tak-.ling a re pad, one cf'the Knights featin fearch of theirk by the Emperor,rulhed in, faying, flu mu ft go back withhim to court, at which ftie fwooned,which fo enraged the King, that hedrew his fword, and would have ilaiahim; had he not proved to be.one Pi-for, a fervant of his lifters.; and theking making himielf known,, he fdlon his knees and afked pardon. . 1 heKing lent him to Affyria,,cormnandinghim to lend, him* clothes, equipages,and guards, that his queen might makea grand entry into the city. He depart¬ed, and in five day s returned with the fadnewsof the town being dehroyetl by lire,and the country waited by civil war t6 THE HISTORYof which the Arminians had made anadvantage, and taken polleffion of thekingdom This news fb fhocked theking^ that he retired into the woodprivately to vent his grief; Confiantiathinking him long, went to feek him,but miffing her way, and being wea¬ry, fat herfelf down to reft by the fide©f the wood, when Helion paffing by inhis chariot with his bride, and ffieknowing Conftantia by her countryhabit, told Helion of it, who rejoicingat the opportunity, put her into .hischariot, and carried her into Arabia, land there placed her under a ftrongguard in an old monaftry. In the meantime, Pericles knowing nothing of whathad befel her, fent out Pifor in fearchof her ; bnt he not returning, he wentkimfelf, and found Ptfor in a deepfleep, occafioned by his eating an ap¬ple called Pilos, which firft throws in¬to a long fleep, and then caufes diftrac-tion. This made him conclude Pifordead, and that Conftantia was devour¬ed by wild beafts, and fo returnedmourning and wringing his hands tothe ffiepherd’s cottage ; and vowing afolitary life, he gave them his jewels 'OF MONTELLION. 7nd retired into the wood,, where heved a confiderable time, bewailingjis misfortunes.Conftantia being in a nionadry pro?-d with child, which coming to thears of Celia the upiiart Qaeen, who'as hated by all the court, contrivedae death of Conftantia and her infant.-In this extremity Conftantia made:|er cafe known to one Pali a, an oldnurfe whom the Queen had offended,Irho taking compaffion on her cafe,iromifed her affiftance.The Queen and Conftantia beinglach brought to-bed of a boy at thename time, the nurfe changed theJlVueen’s for Conftantia’s, purpeftngcarry it to Alfyna, where Conftan-a told her the King its father by thisme was; and to acquaint him wither condition, that he might take mea¬sures to relieve her. But the poor wo-i lan, having travelled for many miles,mid down the child at the edge of a fo-iieft, while fhe went to Peek fbme food,devoured by a lien, and the child!?|;ft to defperate fortune; but provi¬dence ordered it fo that Cothanus, am oble AfTyrian, hunting with his ladv.8 THE HISTORYin the fame foreft, the letter hearinga child cry, went and took it up, anfnamed it Monteliion.Gonftantia was in danger of her lifelby the Queen, who had flain the in-jfant if (he had not difcovered whofe itwas : antTHelion finding (he was tnar-jried to Pericles was refolved to punilhhery and accordingly ordered a towerto be built, furrounded wdth ditches,fliutup with gates of brafs, and inchant-,ed with Necromantic ipells, placing^Knights and Giants io defend' it; tfnalenquiring of the Oracle about the foc-hcefs of it, was anfwfcred, that many .Knights hearing of Conftantia’s beau-|<ty, and not knowing whofe daughterOP MONTELtlON. 9iihe was Hiculd in vain try adventures0 let her free ; but at lafi fhe fhould'»e delivered by her own fon, the moifraliant Knight in the world. Uponhis, over the gate her picture waa■laced, with thefe verfes in letters of';old.i Vithin thefe walls a beauty bright,Is by hard deftiny inclos’d,fTwas for no crime, but for the*fpite' Of fuch as have increas’d her woes.iiere fhe muff flay till fome braveKnight, %By noble valour fets her free :And the enchantment vanifh quite,For a certain deftiny.'for this he will gain high renown^.‘;\nd him with conftant love fhe’H1 crown<»C H A P. HI.vlontellion brought up, and aids hisFather.FEricles recoveringand findingPiforthey agreed to go to the Perfianourt to crave aid for the recovery ofiflyria, which by means of DeloratusJO .THE HISTORYand Piera, they foon obtained. Vari¬ous battles were fought with differentfuccefs, in which Montellicn, who hadbeen brought up by Cothanns, greatlydiftinguifhed hirafelf in delivering hispreferver, whom he found environedround with the enemy, driving themback with great daughter and fury}.and finding his unknown father Perf*cles difmounted and fighting on foot,he relieved him : and engaged theirgeneral Palian in fingle combat, over¬came him, and made him prifoner.After this vidtory they returned to Per-fia, and were elegantly entertained;:but Pericles dill grieved for the lofs ofCondantia.lCHAP. IV. '>Praxanya rejedts Palian and falls inLove with Montellion. ThemidakenDifcovery of it. Montellion rejedts ,her Love, and goes with Pericles infcarch of Condantia. He refcuesPhilotheta from three Giants.DURING their day, Praxantia |daughter of the King of Mace- tdon, fell in love with Montqllion; butOF MONTELLION. t r...Ifhe had been long loved by Palhaaforementioned, who was waiting an.occafion to tell his mind to her. Prax-antia difeovered her love to Launelaher nurfe, deliring her to difeover it tohim : who juft then palled by the gar¬den gate, where Palian was waiting foran opportunity of admittance, and hadfallen afleep with his face downwards^TThe nurfe coming down, and takingihim for Montellion, thus accofted him*JAre you Montellion ? to whom Palianiimade no anfwer, but allied why dieitnqnired ? It is replied die, to difeo-iiiver a matter of importance to you ; a.moble lady is in love with you. At thisihe darted up, and entreated to know(her name.—It is no lefs f^id die, thanIthe princefs Praxantia; at which name‘iPalian was almod in raptures; fo itiiiwas agreed he fiiould be entertained1 in her chamber, where no light diould:be had fo difeover her bludies.—Paliani in the mean time founding Montellion,.(and finding him ignorant, refolved toventure ; and being admitted, kidedliber hand, and vowing coy.ftant loyal-ity, die at lad promifed him marriage,dand leaving him went to bed; but heJ s' THE HISTORYfound means ter get into her bed-cham- ftber, and when ihe was afleep into bed?■which waking her, ihe cries out, but, ,he telling her he was Montellion, and jwould not injure her honour, ihe was itcontent, on his oath not to attempt*;;her virginity,', to-let him repofe there,Pali an, who had* the embraces of So tfair a Princefs, could hardly keep his #vow; however, faking hisfarewel be¬fore the morning, he fecretly departed,;;promiiing to come the next evening, ',and marry her.—That day the empe--ror made a fcaft, and Praxantia placed |herielf oppoiite Montellion, and bluihtcd as often as ihe looked oh him ‘r this Iwas noted by Pericles, fo taking:him-aiide, told him the princefs was in lovewith him, and peffuaded him to em¬brace the opportunity ;' whereupon he-refolved to pay her a vifit the next ‘‘evening, and as coming to the garden-gate Launela was going for a friar toconfumate the marriage, met him, anddemanded if he was Montclliod lam,faid he ; Then replied ihe, You are jcome tco foon; for the friar that ;jihould marry you I am going for, and *dare not let you in till he comes, hinceOF MONTFXLION, ijifour laft night’s adventure with her,many troubled rhooghr> have been inher mind; your dealing to bed hasput het in a’crofg humour; though Ifuppofe it is onlv ihame for being em¬braced by you before marriage.’—Thisamazed Montellion, who to know moVeof it withdrew, and changing habitwith a neighbouring friar, he eroded:o Launela by a nearer way and told.her he was the friar Ihe was going for;;:his fhe believed, and went back withhim, and found Falian ready to enter,which they did'altogether. Praxanttaimmediately embraced the fuppofedIMontellion, by faying. Welcome, mydear Montellion-totby Praxantia’sarms,hodearly loves thee. Palian thankeder, and • now defired themarriagensht be confummated. But Montei-lion, who adlvd the friar as well as hei fould, fa id Hold, not fo fall: my friends,:&ring lights ,firll:, that I may fee whatdo; do vou think! will marry 1 knowiot what ? upon which a candle defco--ered the cheat, and put the princefsfuch a rage, that fhe commanded’aiian out of her prefence: Then fheegan to perfuade the true Montellion*4THE HISTORYto marry her; but he fuppofing herto be debauched by Palian, flung away,from her ; and gave over all thoughts'of courtfhip ; and feeking Pericles, hewent with him in learch of Conftantia.They had fcarce arrived on the con¬fines of Arabia when they met twodamfels weeping, and riding in hafle,who told him their miftrefs Philotheta.was violently forced out of her garden*by three giants, and that they weregoing to get her afliftance, and com¬mended her beauty highly ; it fowrought on Montellion, that he re-folved to refcue her j and being direc¬ted the road, they went on till theycame to two ways, not knowing whichto take, they both parted. ’Twas Mon-tellion’s lot in about five miles very,hard riding to overtake thefe monfters,,dragging along the lady by the hair ofher head; fo coming up and drawing;,his fword, he faid. Villains, unbind;the lady; upon which two of them*were for carrying her away, while theother flew at Montellion, but he fooni [j,laid him dead at his feet; the othersieeing this, one got off with the ladyIttand the other advanced towards Mon- iOF MONTFLLION. i5itellion, who at one blow cut ofF one(of his arms, which the Giant took upland threw at Montellion, which made-him flagger; then the Giant fled,and Monteliion purfued him into acave, where he found one of them go-ning to ravifh Philotheta; and here hedcombated with them both in a bloodyrjencounter, which ended in his’victoryland their death. The lady fell on herknees to her deliverer; but he took her|up, and comforted her in the belttananner he could ; fo haying ref/efhedrphemlelves, he had a further cpportu-iiity of viewing and admiring the beau- •:y of the lady, with whom he fell inove, and fhe with him; but much1(5 THE HISTORYtrouble enfued before they enjoyed eachother ; for as they were diicQurfing inthe cave, in rufhed three Knights ingreen, two of them feized her, andthe other combated Montelliort; andin five minutes they all vanilhed away,carrying the lady along with them ;fo that he was perfuaded it was doneby enchantment; whereupon, he de- .parted in great heavinefs in learch ofher.- % —: OF MONTELUON. : 17C II A P. V.IMontellicn is carried vmto the Groveof Hyfperiau Nymphs, and theirUfage to him ; he comes jo the Cat¬tle where Con ft anti a and PhdothetaWere; he fights with the Knights,and finiihes the Enchantment.IWI Ontellion’s h or fe being ft rayed inJ!tJL the’wood, during his combatliwith the Giants, and as he was look-ling for him, a beautiful damlel falutediiliim, ordering him to follow her, andi.at laft brought him to a fine grove,and then vanilhed. When lookingl.about he efpied a bower of finerofes andijeiTamine, entwined by very curious!’ art; but being about to enter it, heperceived in letters of gold this caution tBe not too rafli to enter thefe fine bowr’s, <•Here the Hyfperiah nymphs at leifure Ijoursi^Repofe themfeives thathuie the Oracle,j And do the fate of mortal wights foretelI Left you their anger raife, and gain therebyMifchiefs of life, and fo untimely die.While he was mufing on thefe lines,a crowd of damfels appeared, withflowers on their heads, and very18 THE HISTORYfine mufic : he thinking they wereGoddefies, began to worfhip them jwhereupon he heard a voice faying,Tfceu’rt now where man was ne’er beforeI he Nymphs of the Hei'perian Oracle,To let thee know what will befal you mere, ;Their favour do contribute to the full $Thou art of princely birth, yet much careBefal, e’er you know whom your parents are, ,A1 ter much toil many good days you’ll fee, ^And her you love fhall in the end yours be, >And long long years you lhail live happily.)Then they gave him a (word andlance, faying, They fhould prefervehis life in the utmoft danger; andnamed him the Knight of the Oracle.They then conveyed him to the en¬chanted cafile, where feeing Philotheta, jhe winded the horn, whichwmgered ma¬ny Knights who were waiting there,each claiming the lady as his prize.On this MontclHon, whom we fhallnow call the Knight of the Oracle, un-horfed them one after the other: after 1which he call lots with them whofhould firft attempt the lady’s refeue,and his fell out to be the laft.—Thereft being defeated*, fome taken prifo- rners, and fome thrown into the moat, Liiuight, but his armour was proof -a-i inft itj and blowing the horn, threeft ' .' ' • . . »„ ^| V ( f ' HOF MONTELLION: v 19,daft came up the Knight of the Ora-, in the fight of Philotheta and Con-intia, who were locking out at an|ndow, defpairing of deliverance*ic enchantrefs rained fire againft tho20 tHE HISTORYGiants came forth with iron clubthey advanced with fury, but he foelaid two of them dead at his feeThunder and lightening enfued, arthe enchantfcfs finding that he was dfigned by the deflinies to diflo've tlenchantment, forced Rhilotheta o;it«;her Tower. The lafl Giant yieklT1to the Knight, and fhewed him Col ‘ftantia, who thanked him for her d('liverance. Then he ordered the Giccto releafe the c'aptives, amongll who!was K el ion, almolt ftarved to deatland who foon died. . - -C H A P. VI. iSeveral Occurrences to haften the Cor. •clufion of the Hi (lory.THE enchantment being finifhecand Conltantia under the protection of the Knight of the Oracle, otheir way to Perfia, let’s lee.what beJcanie of Phiiotheta after Ihe wa- carri1ed out of the caftle by Ila the enchantrefs. T his lady was daughter to Delatus and Aflalai.This Delatus beia ^Duke of ila, the beauty of her ca-ufetone Amphiador to deal with a Kecrcmancer, to enchant her in a cell rOF MONTELLION. 213 wildernefs, which fliould be of theJne date as die enchanted tower,(nphiadar gave it cut that Deiatusas flain, and fo gained the afFed:ion1 Aflala that he married her, and hadhh her the dukedom ; but the trueike coming home, Amphiador liedito Perlia, refolvingj to fadsfy his lullion Philotheta; and as he was medi¬ating thus, he found out Praxautiarmenting the iofs of Montellion’s love,'hereupon he invited her to an emer¬gent, after which he Hole into her!>otn, and forced her to fly naked in-* another chamber; where her fer-i;ants bound him and left him, ande was there flarved to death.■ 1 Conllaotia and Montellion comingf) Delatus’s houfe, he allured her that(jlontellion was her fon; whi h Iheoon Ifound to be true, by enquiringhto his life ;, the which alfo rejoicedericles, and there was feafling forlany days.. Palian let up a tent forhe entertainment of Hangers, to Whichr’hilotheta and Prax intia came in dif-;uife; and Monteilion c iming into theaner part of the tent, where Praxanciavas fitting alone, Ihe enticed him to22 THE HISTORYluft, which he refufiag, her love tuned into hatred, and file snade a gre; '■outcry; at wluch her brother Thettcame in, and would have run Montelion through, had not Philotheta, whlyhad concealed hei felf in the tent, criejjout, Treafon ! Murder 1 the King’s fowill be killed ; which gave Montellio’time to draw, and he foon laid hirdead; upon which Palian and his othebrothers ruflied in, and all fell uponMontellion ; but he had certainly flanthem, had not the Emperor and Kin;of Maced('n come in with their guards—Praxantia no fooner faw them, bufne cried out that Montellion had ravilhed her'and flain her brother; thi:ftartled them all, for Montellion owmed killing Thetus, but forgot the caufeWhile this conteft happened, Paliarfneaksd away, and a dreadful warbroke out between the two Kings oiMacedon and Aflyria : and what vex¬ed Montellion was the hazard of loflngPhilotheta.OF MONTELLION. 23CHAP. vir.iPhilotlieta difcovers herfelf to Montel-lion and the happy Termination ofthe Whole.Uring this misfortune, Philothetawithdrew to a gentlewoman’siou(e named Relea, and difcoveredaer love to her, who promifed to affiftier, and went to the Perfian and Affy--iiian camp, who had very lately routedhe Macedonians and Armenians, byhe help of the Knight of the Oracle ;:jind foon found him, telling him that;! lady named Philotheta was defirous3 fee him, hereupon he mounts hisn orfe, but was flopped by a fervant ofdelea’s, who brought her word that aiarty of Armenians had burnt heriroufe, and taken away the lady. Atits news Relea fainted away, andolontellion grew melancholy ; at lafte difguifed himfelf like an Arabianmimuch, got into the king of Armenia’s' rvice, and was to perfuade Philotheta• yield to the king’s defires. Themg of Macedon alfo made fuit to begt likewife the Emperor of Almaiga;tit the Knight of the Oracle managed24 THE HISTORY, &c.matters fo, as he drove them off withmany delays, that they might not fuf-pe<5t his defign; having prepared tdjcarry her off, he told them feve* JlyjThat fhe had complied to meet them. that night at St, Bernard’s cell, wherea friar would join them in marriage,*and by this means got their (ign'ets,that he might pafs unqueftioned. Theirfignets he gave to the two Queens, tell!1ing them what their huibands intend¬ed; and by the Emperor’s aid he andPhilotheta elcaped to Affyria ; wherethey were married to their mutualjoy; The Queens going fo difguifed.tt> furprife their iiulbands, they eachthinking.they had got Philotheta, asnot coming at the one and the fam«|time, married contrary couple.?, angoing to bed in the dark, for moreprivacy, cuckolded each other unwillingly. •To conclude, After divers battles!the war ended in a Lifting peace, and.our lovers continued in great felicit^^o the end of their lives.FINISG L A a G O W,Printed by J. and M, Robertfon, Saltmarket, l8c«