IMaaelieljr lossor th!•:WHALE-FISSII^^ SMI I*OSCAR,OFABEBBEII,' *On THURSDAY, April 1, 1813.ABE RDEEN :PRINTED BY J. DANIEL & COMPANY.1*53./M/oVOft'o>.Vf - />£»> .LOSS OF THEOSCAR.On Thursday last, after a tract of the mildest weatherknown for many years, one of the most sudden and vio¬lent storms, for its short duration, was experienced here,which is recollected by the oldest inhabitant, and at¬tended with one of the most melancholy and distressing'events that ever happened at this place.In the morning, the wind, which had been westerlyduring the night, veered round to the south-eastward,with snow, blowing strong, but shifted soon after to t: enorth-eastward. At this time five of the '^hale-' hiShips belonging to thisport, and among them >h<; Osc •* .Captain John lanes, which had sailed early in ’Jre n 1 -ing, were riding at anchor in the bay; and 1 lib/being still u settled, and having the a|.pea dnc» aimpending storm, about five o’clock the Oscar-ivaip'' eeland stood out to sea. A boat having gone ashore for4some of the crew who were absent, the vessel put aboutstood into the bay, and succeeded in geting the last ofher hands on board. By this time she was far in-shore ;and a fatal calm, with a heavy rolling sea and strongflood-tide coming on, rendered it impracticable to clearthe Girdleness. _ The vessel continuing to fall to theleeward, was again nnder the necessity of bringing up inthe face of the rocky shore, within the Ness. Soonafter which, the great violence of the gale which com¬menced from N.E. with thick snow, rendered her situ¬ation perilous in the extreme, and filled the minds of thepeople on shore with the most painful apprehensions.About half-past eleven o’clock, A.M., the Oscar, afterdragging her anchor, was seen to go ashore in the GreyHppe, near the Short Ness. A considerable number oftpeople succeeded in getting across by the Ferry, andhastened to ti e spot, in order to render such assistanceas might be found in their power. The heart-rending |jscene which, however, now presented itself, made it too 1apparent thtit all human efforts for preservation of the nunfortunate ship and crew must be unavai.ing. The ovessel lay among large rocks, and from the tremendousi»sea which went over her, was already breaking up. At \this time an attempt was made by the crew to form a sort dof bridge to the nearest rocks, by cutting away the main- nmast, which unfortunately fell alongside the shivu |nste&c }of towards the shore as they had fondly expectem 1 Man’ hof the men who had clung to the rigging were now plung ?o' ed into ilie sf-a, by the falling of the fore and mizenmasts Jind disappeared in the merciless ocean; and mostof the remainder, having nothing to hold by, were sweptoff the wreck, and sunk in sight of those on shore, whocould render them no assistance, although the distancebetween them and the unfortunate seamen was such, asto admit of a communication of sentiment even by thecountenance. The fate of several others seemed no lesshard, for after having nearly gained the shore, they wereswept off by the heavy surf, or borne down by the casksand other wreck with which they were surrounded. Theforecastle of the Oscar still remaining above water, fivemen were observed, and among them Captain Inneswasdistinctly seen making signals for that assistance whichcoud not possibly be afforded ; and, after clinging longto the wreck, and struggling hard for life, they shared thefate of their unfortunate companions, the vessel havingsoon gone to pieces. About this time, Mr. John Jam-son, first mate, and James Venus, a seaman belonging toShields, were with difficulty saved—being the only sur¬vivors of this sad catastrophe out of a crew of forty-fourpersons!Thus perished the Oscar, which, but a few hours be¬fore, had sailed with the fairest prospect, and very com¬plete in j’JI her equipments ; and thus was lost one ofth^nresiand best disciplined crews which could go tosea—j©en w$»o so .Lely set out full of hope and expec¬tation, and W' 0 in one fatal hour cut off.’ ** .A Subscription has been set on foot for the reliefthe Widows, Orphans, and other*li«lat;ves,Jwho weO‘dependent on the unfortunate sufferers, the most of whoi nwere married, and many of whom have left very larghfamilies. The sums subscribed are intended to be db 1posed of for their relief by a Committee to be appoint® <|for that purpose by the principal SubscribersApEBDEBisr, 3d April, 1813.! fLATE CEEW OF THE OSCAR.ohn Innes, master, drowned ; John Jamson. first mate and hatpooner(Jonathan Rogers, spectioneer and harpooneer, drowned; Mathewharpooneer, ditto ; George Buchan, ditto, ditto ; Alexander Buchan,eer, ditto ; James Yenus, boatsteerer, saved ; Robert Richmond,rer, drowned ; James Sinclair, boatsteerer, drowned ; Thomas Smith,er, drowned ; John Goldie, cooper and boatstecrer, drowned *lorgan, line manager, drowned ; William Roberts, line manager’; John Henderson, line manager, drowned ; John Coutts, ine ma-rowned; Alexander Marshall, surgeon, drowned-; William Livie,drowned ; James Short, seaman, drowned ; James Sangster, sea-wned ; Thomas Sangster, seaman, drowned ; William Ogstown,drowned ; James Christie, seaman, drowned ; John Buchan, sea.wned ; Andrew Peddie, seaman, drowned; James Catto, seaman; Alexander Gordon, seaman, drowned ; John Bruce, seaman,;ed ; William Davidson, seaman, drowned ; Alexander Buchan, [2d]n, drowned ; William Dunn, seaman, drowned ; Daniel Aleock, sea-drowned ; Thomas Greig, seaman, drowned ; John Tait Sim, cook,|«d ; George Lawrence, carpenter, drowned : John Stewart, landsman,led ; John Anderson, Tandsman, drowned ; William Anderson, lands,ilrowned; William Walker, landsman, drowned ; George M'Donalda, drowned ; Alexander Riddel, apprentice, drowned ; Robert Rid’rentice, drowned ; John Palmer, apprentice, drowned ; Forbesi apprentice, drowned ; Charles Sim, apprentice, drowned, making in•'ty four;''it:t w. ,^.1)^-^ *»* ^ "1   i’“ . ); b ,0-/• ■ „ .v.-i•.*. » str'U. '<*■ -•■•UMVI bWfOTt,. „ ■ , irotb Jr. ■ nJi iitt* ••L.«'69n" •' .v . ,i.;7««i I *it>»- -V m;, ‘‘ri ' - •> f>-- 'S‘b"fi'i-; ■')') : f<*t!) IK ' ^p aii'' >h .IP r>‘' •'Vi-> •' "■*i gn - 1