Purgatory Proved, Illustrated, andset forth in a Clear Light.A FUNERALS E R M O N.By Father MURTAUGH O’LAVERT. Priestof the Parishes of St. John’gj Dromore,and Machrelin.Upon the death of one of his Parishioner^.-To which is added,The C'or.tecration of a Murderer of Heretick Princes; used l;ike Jesuits in Popish Countries. Also, a numberof Popish Miracles.Printed for the Bock siller.-.PURGATORYIllustrated, and set\J%forth in a clear lightiMy friends,YOU all know, it ish a cushtonnry ting vkde Clergy, fen dey are going to preach iSharmon, dat dey vill be tak a test froni shunparticular plash of dey Scr’pture; but for dat veryrashpn, because he s^h cushtomary, I vill not dcit. For I love to be shingular; and you knewahingularity in the right, ish never a crime yet.And ash dere are a great many of you gatherhere upon dish occashon, shum vid an hones:intention, no doubt, to be instructed; dan layyoursheives open to de conviction of the truthshum perhaps, to make shest of our Holy Decreeand laugh at de fooleries of de Mass as dey vilprofanely tpeak : In short, as deie arc a greamany of you gather here, shum Phipsy terian shunChurch of Englishman, and shum Roman CatholicI shall preach you a shannon in English, dat yoifvill all equally understand fat l vas shay.And de shubject I shuse to insist upon as d<most proper for dish occasion, ish Purgatory j(de most advantageous and beneficial doctrine o:our bhurch,) de method I shall observe ish dishFirst, I shall prove to you, dat dere ish reall;'such a plash as Purgatory, or a Limbus Pratumwhere de shoula of al! our friends, depart tislife, c!o go, and are purge from dejr remaininjshins and pollutions.3Shecondiy, I vill describe dish Purgatory to:you.Turdly, I viH show you de Pennance and Pur-gation of dat Purgatory.And Lastly, Apply de doctrine to dish preshentloccashion.For proofs of de first ting den; Dat dere dish:rea!ly such a plash ash Purgatory, or a LimbusiPatrum, where de shouls of all our friends de¬part dish life, do go, and are purge from deir*emaing shin and pollution: I need shay nomore to you who are Catholics, den dish, Datit ish a doctrine upheld by our unerring counshels,confirmed by de Pope himshelf. and stamped vidde able authority of de Shurch: Fat Heed you,who believe in dat Shurch already, any moreproof for a doctrine, den dat she ish your Oracle,rand your infallible Guide. She ish in dt- plashiof your reason, senses, and understanding, andhas pouter to shudge and decree, and determine,and dictate, and ordain, in all matters ot doctrine,and all dat tend to your bodies and estates, andall dat do relate to dish vorld, or dt n- \t vorldto come ; fat ever derefore she bid you shay, youmust shay ; fat ever she bid you do, you must do;without ever pretending to tink or shudge foryourshelves, as de hereticks shay,- dat vid beblaspheming ’gainst her most holy autority : nay,t vid be most horrid impudence and damnableaeresyHut for de benefit and conviction of oder de¬nominations, who pretend to see vi’ deir own eyes,arfh t5/' shnyi"1^ isb, and tbro’ de great abundanceof deir ignorance, vid shudge for demshelves, in:dese deep matter, I vill show de proof upos;which our holy Sluirch has vbunded dish doctrine,sAnd first, we are told in de Scripture, shum ferenor r.oder, Dat all tings shall be prove by fire, fa*sort dey are; dat if any mans build ’pon founda-ftion, such as hay, nor straw, nor stubble, no^any such combustible materials, he vill sufledamage nor loss, and de superstructive shall bburn down, yet lie himself shall be shaved busho as by fire, dat ish, my friends, He Purgatorifire of de turd plash.A^-ain, C>t»r Shavior did raise up van Lazarusfrom de dead, after he had been five nor tree dain de grave till he was stinking again: Now pherefwas dat man's shoul all dat while ? Ah ! ah ! irhell he could not be, for cut of hell dere ish ncredemption; In heaven he cou’d not be for <ksheys and pleasures of dat happy plash are sc.rreat, he never Tid come back to d;sh vickervorid of ours again, and go into a stinking care as!. _     t?  ...dat was most rotten in a grave: Ergo, it vash iiPurgatory, or de turd plashBut again, between our Shaviour’s crucifixionand "ascension, it vash forty day, a great whinjmy friends, near six veek. Now, where vash h.all dat while ? In heaven he vash not ascendedin nell he could not be, for out of hell dere is nilredemption, as I’ll shay before. Where den vasijhe Let any Heretick of vou all answer dat now jbvde shoul of de holy priest, der vash no odeplash for him.to be, but our own turd plash, diasIi Purgatory. . ...But lest I should tire your patience, I vul coi5dude dish head vid oae proof more,, phich is de:on!y arricie dat supports dish doctrine.And first, We are told in de Holy Gospel ofiSt- Shenesis, shum {ihere nor noder, Dat we arelall corrupted and contaminated vid de pollutionsof shin, dat no man liveth and shineth not, datdere are none righteous, no not van. . Again,-me are told in de holy Prophecies of de Evangc-ilists, shum where nor noder t Hat no uncleaniting shall enter into de kingdom of Heaven j(Where den shall dey go ? Alt, we hope \i!l notIgo to hell piping hot: For dere are a greit manyirr.en?, and true Roman Catholics, but dey aretnot so good as to be lit for dat holy plash, whero-: m entereth’noting dat ish unclean, neither anyting dat defileth. It remains den, dey mur't goto Purgatory, where 'dey shall be clear,sht aud•purged from their remaining pollutions and con-j taminations of deir shins till dey be made lit farI d« kingdom of heaven. And now let the Prop-i Oestants ahay fat dey please, I tell you, by de, shoul of de holy priest, dere is no possibility ofever getting to heaveti, till dey first go dcre and! undergo deir pennanee. It is plain den, de shouts; ol all our friends depart dish life, as well as dish■ person now deceas, vent to Puaratorv, as de turdj plash.But nher you ever hear fat short a plash dish' purgatory ish, and fat your friends vush suffot-ing dere, I cannot tell—you never did from me, ashi I remember, and by de conscience, I know no' body else vash able to teach you dat doctrine but1 mysheif, I shah derefore take dish opportunityi of explaining her a little to you.And in de first phuh, It is a very large plashm9you rray be sure, fen it receives For purgation;all true Catholics, who are de most numerouspeople ’pon face of de earth: For beside a]iFrance nor Spain, nor Italy, nor Rome, areCatholics, dere are a great many more, who are'dispersed through de kingdoms of de world ; daPictcstar.ts themshelves, phen dey count heads)vid ush, find to dere great shorrow, dat we aremore dan two turds of the inhabitants of Ireland*v/ho are profest Cathos ; beside a great many mere,who, for getting into de revenue, and de odoradvantageous hosts, have called den shelves Prop*testan s (and by de slioul of my dear gossipdere are a very great numbers of dem too,) butare true Roman Catho’s in deir harts, who viiiget indulgence from de Pope, have de priest, andde administration of holy oyls at deir dead, andvi'i get de benefit of Purgatory, and de benefitof de clergy, so veil as any of you ail, and dishmake one half of t’oder turd, so dat you sheedere are but a very few who are our hearty ene¬mies, most of which are damn’d black phiggishPhipsyterians; oh, oh, the devil run away withthem all.But here, by de bye, you may observe phat aparcel of poor-spirited, cowardly-hearted sons ofwhores of bitches are we, to be so long keepddwn by parcel of damn’d heretickij* if wa;would but take courage and begin, dey vill benotipfT in our hands; but if we submit vid aOslavish subshection to deir heretiok government,ark hinder to carry arms, made mere soles to deirbrogues—but by my own shoul we vill have ourday about vid dem yet.—Our plots vill at lastsucceed : de king of Spain, and de king of France,7&c. vash picking quarrels vid dent, vid deit de¬predations, and deir Guards Costa's and fat not;.aue, aue, aue, by my shoul dey vill fall on at last,and take courage, and swinge dem bravely: dey!?re making great preparation, arming fleets, andIships, ar-d putting out land forces; dey are verypowerful armies, de whole vorld, ah ! and by deHoly Shaint Bridget, Europe itshelf is no ableto vidstand dem. Dey vill tell you ot dear man’sof War, and deir Haddocks, and deir Vernons,i and de devil know far, vill sink, and stop and de¬stroy our ships, leave dem upon de bottom of deseas, and never let d^m put deir leg upon Irishj ground more: dat dey kmg of Spain feared for! dish, and vill pay de convention and not fight:by my shoul he vill- fight and bcai too,—’tish decause of de Holy Shurch he’s defending, and degates of hell viil never prevail agiinst him. Derevill be shiftance enough I II variant you; all deShaints, our Holy Moder Shurch, all tie Scotch,i and by my shoul, tie Virgin Mary hershelf villi fight for us; den we vill succeed to be sure, pos¬ses our rights and estates again, and establish ourI holy religion through all Ireland, and 1 myshelfi rnay be Lord of Trumney, and of Lavry’s-Bog,before I vash die yet.But after so long a digression, I must returnto my explanation of Purgatory.In de shecond plash for its situation; it ish •shust, my friends, in de middle oetwetm heavenand hell; from hell on one side by a small paperval! only, but from heaven upon t’oder by a strongvail of adament; vid gates of brass, of which Peterkeep de key, who vash himself a true Catholicfor he vash once Pope, and all our Popes ever8since are his successors, and al! dcssetuled rrom!him by a right line of ecclesiastick genealogy.You vill understand de ting better, when I viilillustrate her to you by de following similitude iYou all know Mr. Harrison's house upon deMiravel, phen you vill go in, dere i».ele parlourupon one hand, dere is de kitchen upon t’oder,dere ish de hall in de middle. Veil den, de par¬lour iah Heaven, de kitchen ish Hell, and de hallish Purgatory in de middle; when anv van likemyshelf, who ish in da habrt of a shentlema';,' datish who is a Roman Catholic, goes in lie viilbfi shown to de parlour, bu' before he ish entitledto enter, he must wipe, and rub, an 1 clean hisfoot upon a mat which lie dere for dat purpose;dat ish, he must do de pennance and purgation;of ih.t turd plash, dat ish he must have, moneyupon his pocket too, to pay his reckoning-, or he'•ill not be admitted into de parlour. Dish ish,he must pay de clergy for praying him out dfPu-gatory. or by my shoul, Peter vil! not ler himenter into de kingdom of Heaven : you know veilenough, ir a man has money upon his pocket,spends lavishly, nor pays well, Mr. Harrison, norany oder inn-keeper viil be very civil upon him,take him into his parlour, show him a great dealof courtesy and good manners, and vill vait uponhim vid every ting he’ll vants; but if he’s poor,nor vill not pay, he vill shut de door upon him,nor kick him out.—It is shust so my my friendsvid Peter, if vou pav de clergy vtdl, and supportde Shurch, Peter vi!l come vid his cap in hishand, open de gates and welcome you dere, butif you are poor nor won’t pay, by de Holy Cross !he vill shut de door upoh you, nor kick you outlisit again. If any one corfie info de hall vtddirty or ragged appare', as de Phipsyterianj andi all oder hereticks do, dey vi'l be i nniediately trusi down into de kitchen, dat ish hell, my friends;i no question vill be ask, no excuse vill be hear,: but a wav dey vill be hurrry, vidout repleven, norbenefit of de clergy.And ish brings me, in de turd plash, to con-i sider de pennance and purgation dat de shouls of: our dear departed friends do shuffer dere, and un-i dergo in dish turd plash.De shcverest of one of which punishments ish,de stink of hcretick* thronging through to hell:de damnable stench of de phigj*ish Phipsyterians,. which make me cur! my nose to tink upon it:: but de best of ish, dey are not suffer to tarrylong, or be slow in deir passage thro’ Purgatory,lest dey should contaminate de consecrated plashi v’.d de emanation of dcir heresy.De shecond punishment is occasioned by its; being situate upon de very edge of hell: for de: plash is all laid vid great flags of iron, and plates: of brass which are strongly heated by de forcej cf de great fires, at phich de hereticks are roast-i ing one another upon spits, dat ’tis great tormentI to valk upon dem. You know phen you villI throw off ycur brogues by de fire-side at night,! and set your bare foot upon de stone in de harth—he vill be very shore,— ih ! wod’ent he ■ —i By my shoul, yon is five hundred times as sore: as dat. Or, if you would make a truly experi-: ment of de ting, take a girdle and put her ’ponde fire till she be roost red hot, den set her downand clap your bare arse upon her, dat vill be anearer resemblance of her still; but vill not come10UP -0 her yet. I know it ish a cushtomary tingvid us Catho’s to provide against our dear departedfriends suffering dish torment, by putting a pairof new brodges upon deir kash in de coffin : whichf do confesh may do shum service, dat ish if deyt^ke care to pay de priest veil; for he may praydem out before de brogue be burn, but if not, dedevil a small potatoe he vill signify i For you knowif he stay long in, de sole of de brogue vill soonbe burn, and den fat better viH he be ? It ishbetter ro give de price of de brogue it shelf to depriest, and be vil? pray dem out sho much soonerden de brogue vill last.But de turd and greatest punishment of it isha graat big black ugly devil of a vomans, datstand dere vid'afi iron flail, ana she’s be trash¬ing dem through all de plash in a most terriblemanner: And fat ever part of de body vas guiltyef de shin, she vill be trashing upon dat very partIf be vash diunkeness nor gluttony, she vili betrashing ’pon de belly. If he vash teeving, shovil! come upon deir fingers vid her long flail, tillshe vill break all deir nuckle again ; and if he vash-rdultery nor fornication; ah, ah, ah! you mayguess yourshelves who will get his paymentsoundly. In short, she vill be trashing and trash¬ing, till de devil a bit of flesh vill she leave ’ponyour bone, and dey vil) be roaring and shouting,and cursing deir friends, dat viil give noting todo clergy to pray dem out of dat torment.Now my friends, you all know well enough,de priest hath a dispensing power over dese tor¬ments, fefl he pleases, dat ish if h»’s paid forhim ; but by my sheul not else; for to grantabsolution vtdout payment, would be quite over™11turn ck* Shurch. ’ Tis tie main pillar flat s’iup-ports her; nay, ’t;s!i de very foundation uponwhich she is build.I link now, my friends, I have prove to youdat dere ish really such a plash as Purgatory ; anddat de shouls of all our friends depart dish life,•are dere, so veil as dish person now deceas.In de shecond plash, I have described Purga-tor to you. And turdly, I have shewn you phatterrible tings your friends are suffering dere, anddat I myshelf, as being a priest in dish parish,have a power of releasing any one from dese tor¬ments—if I am paid for him.Who den among you vill give a groat to havedish man’s shoul out of Purgatory. Come youmens dere.—Veil—dere ish one groat—makehaste, you are very slow.Veil dere ish 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, U>groat.—Vill no bodies more give ?—Vash ishman's shoul worth no more den ten groat? auf,aue, aue, a poor story indeed ! Phat Phelemy,vill you give noting, nor you Turlogh, arra youdevils, are you not all his revelations ?—Come,you vomans cere, give money, nor yarn, nor but¬ter, nor flax, nor something. Come, VarridShaue, Anna and Shuga and all of you. Pat dedevil are you going? Fat, no more groats.—Veil,pho vill give tree pence ? Very veil; Vid no bodymore give tree pence ? Pho vill give two pence ?Pho vill give one penny itshelf ? Not one pennymore to be got among you ? Ah, ah, you are apack of hard hearted vicked devils! and mepreachin sho long, and sho good a shurmon toyou, dat you never did hear before, dast cost mea whole quarter of a year in studying him tor de12S'c^ jour shouls: And you vill give notingfGr (!e Support of rriy body.f owe Joseph UsHerof Mackrelin for dish coatupon my back, and depended upon dish day forgetting de money, but de devil a one half, norone quarter I’ll get yet; phich if I do not im¬mediately, he vill put me upon confinement in decounty goal: and den you devils, you shee fatviil become of your shouls.Nov/ you dat Itave got not de full groat?,rwash; better for you to l ave given noting at all;for t!e punishment of your friends vili not. only bescorching and scorching, &c. but halving a:1dquartering and tearing in pieces. For you datgive tree pence, I vill pray tree quarters of yourfriend out, and leave t’oder quarter in for t’ederpenny. And you dat give but one penny, I villpray ore quarter out, t'oder tree shall remain intorment as before. So you dat have no moneyborrow ysu devils, borrow and make up de fullgreat.Gloria Pairia Whillo Sjniduo &• Sheinlo, Amen.Let mo shee, dere is, _ - - - £\ 13 6By my shor.1, he vash no bad collec-1*‘on, after all dat now. > Aside.END OF THE SERMOJ*.^Tht Consecration of a A*, rdcrcr of Hereticl Princes tused by the Jesuits in Pjfish countries.THOSE that are counted heft ticks by Papists,are by law and right deprived of all theyhave, the Pope can authorize thr orthodox merr’-‘bers of the church, i. e. his own subjects, toitarke possession; and whatever means are neces-isary thereunto, he can legitimate and make law¬ful, as poisoning, assassinating, flowing up with(gun-powder, See. It is an approved thing amongthem, a case deliberately determined by the in-if.dlible head of the church, that the kii'ing of(kings and queens, excommunicated by the Pope,is no murder, nay that it is meritotious to 'estroyhereticks.And, a# they encourage the murder of such(prince* as they call hereticks, so they have a:solemn form of preparing an assassin for his un¬dertaking.The pereon designed for tiu* work, is secretlyintroduced into the meditary or oratory : there aknife wrapped up m linen is taken out of an ivorycare, marked all round wiph various characters,(together with an Agnus Dei. Upon this, ar. itda drawn out of the sheath, they drop holy waterand eonsecra.ted coral beads upon the haft: grant¬ing an indulgence of delivering as many souls outof Purgatory, as he shall give wounds to the prince,whom they design to assassinate: then they putthe knife into the hand of the parricide, recopa-mending it in these words, “ Elect son of God,14take this suford of Jephthah, the sword of Samsow,the sword of David, with which he cut off Goiiah’shead, the sword of Gideon, the’sword of Judith,the sword of the Maccabees, the sword of thePope, by which he has delivered himself fromthe hands of princes, having spilt very much bloodin their dominions; Go ^nd be prudently copra-gious, may God strengthen thy arm” This be¬ing done they ail fail down upon their knees,and the chief of them pronounces this exorcism :“Be present ye cherubim, be present ye seraphim,ye thrones, ye powers be present, ye holy angels,and fill this blessed vessel with perpetual glory,and every day offer him the crown of the blessedVirgin Mary, of the holy patriarchs and martyrs ;he is no longer a member of our communion, butyours: ,\nd thou, O God, who art terrible andinvincible, and who in the meditofy has put itinto his heart t« destroy a tyrant and heretick, andconfer his crown on a catholic king; strengthen,we beseech thee, his hands and increale his cou¬rage, that he may accomplish his will; give himan omnipotent mail, whereby he may escape thehands of those who would apprehend him; givehim wings, by which his holy members may es¬cape the endeavours of barbarous betrayers; pouriinto his soul thy cheating rays, by which his bodywithout fear, in the midst of dangers and torture?,m»y be animated witn j«y and exultation.” A fierithis exorcism, the parricide is brought before thealtar, over which is painted the history of JaquesClement, a Dominiciaji Monk, with the imagesof angels protecting him, and carrying him toheaven This the Jesuits shew him, and withal;present him an heavenly crown, saying, “Regard,■+- 150 Lord, this thin; arm, and rhe executor of thy1 ustice, let all the saints arise aud give him place.”After these ceremonies, four Jesuits are deputedito talk with the parricide alone, these, duringitheir discourse, are wont often to say, that thereappears in him a divine sort of brightness, by the(radiancy of which they are moved to kiss his handsand feet, and that he no longer seems to them toibe a man, but a heavenly saint •, they pretendialso to envy the great glory and blessedness to■which he is now advanced, sighing and saying,' Would to God I had been chosen in thy room,that being delivered from the Bunii.hme.:t of Pur¬gatory, I might have gone directly to par idise.’’(But, if he whom they judge proper to penetrateIthe murder be backward and reluctant, then theyeither force him to make such a vow by nighiiy(bugbears, and monstrous spectres, or animateand introduce him to the enterprize, by contriv-i ing apparitions of the Virgin Mary, or angels, or• other saints, and sometimes of Jgnatius and hisi followers., "• • viv:I t ‘ ^ . • fr - - ■; _ - ' I & •' ’ A ^Popish Mi nicies.A CERTAIN peasant of Auvergne, a pro¬vince in France, perceiving that his beeswere likely to die, to prevent this misfortune, wasadvised, after he had received the communion, tokeep the host, and to blow it into one of his hives ;and, on a sudden, all the bees csme forth out oftheir hives, and ranking themselves in good order* 16lifted the host tin from the ground, and csrryingit in upon their wings, placed it amonu the co nbs.After this the man went out about his businesss,ami at hi;; return, found that this advic'* had suc¬ceeded contrary to 1m expectation, for all hisbeeS were dead. Nay, when he lifted up thehive, he saw that the host was turned into a fairchild among the honey combs •, and being muchastonished at this change, and seeing that this in¬fant seeming to be dead, he took it ift his hands,intending to bury it privately in the church, butwhen he came to do it, he found nothing in hishands; for the infant was vanished away. Thisthing happened in the county of Oiermont, whichfor this irreverence, was, a while after, chastisedby divers calamities, which so dispeopled thoseparts, that they became like a wilderness. Fromwhich it appears, th-*t bees honour the holy hostdivers ways, by lifting it from the earth, an l carry¬ing it into their hives, as it were in procession.”I. f the reader remember, it was the God whomPapists worship, that was indebted to tire beesfor shelter in their hive. .. --A certain poor- man going to visit bis bees, per¬ceived them to make a sweet harmony: he stoodravished a while with it, not knowing what itmeant. The night following, as he went aboutserae business, and casting his eyes towards theb&es, he perceived them to rejoice, and sport them-selv's, making an admirable melody. First, heinformed the curate of it, and afterwards brokeup his hive, where be found a box made of wax,but of such admirable whiteness, that it lookedlike ivory, and within it the holy sacrament adored17 . ■'by the bees, who ranged themselves into twochoirs, and sang the praises of their Creator.The Bishop ordered a procession to carry backlithe holy host of the church-, and in that place waslerected a sumptuous chapel, which became a place::cf refuge for the sick and the afflicted. When noijbcdy knew from whence, and-by whom, that host: had been brou: bt there, two thieves of their owniaccord discovered themselves, and confessed, thathaving stolen a box, they had thrown the hostagainst the hives. By which miracle we see thatllhe bees adore the holy host, and sing the divineipraises, dividing themselves into two choirs.”A certain u'cmin, having received the eons-i rnunton unworthily, carried the host to her hives,for to enrich the stock of bscs ■, and afterwards: coming again to tee the success, she perceived; that the bees, acknowledging their Gad in thesacrament, had, w-ith admirable artifice, erectedto him a chapel of wax, with its doors, windows,: bells, anti vestry; and within it a chalice wherethey hid the holy body of Jesus Gtirist. She• could no longer conceal this worder. Xhe*priest. being advertised of it, came thither in procession,! and he himself heard harmonious music, which; the bees made, flying round about the sacrament^and having taking it out, he brought it back to thei church full of comfort, certifying, that he hadi seen and heard our Lord acknowledged andj praised by those little creatures.An old and simple priest, of the parish of St.Colen. carrying the holy sacrament out oi townto a sick person, and going up a very rough hillmet some loaded asses descending towards the !town: and the way being very narrow, and thepriest nor being able to get past them, and Fear¬ing to be overturned by those beasts, he spoke tothem according to his simplicity in this manner:My asses ! what do you men'll ? Do ye not seehim whom I carry ? Go aside and stop to makeroom for your Creator, which I command you inhis name. O admirable obedience ! Those asseswhich, used not to stir but when they were beaten,presently went to one side, where the hill wasmore steep, without apprehending any danger, orletting fall their load. The tow n of Colen remem¬bers this wonder to this day, and nientioneth- itwith astonishment. ^In the 16th century, within the Venetian ter-ititories, a priest carrying the holy host, withoutpomp or train, to a sick person, he met, out ofthe town, asses going to their pasture; who per¬ceiving by a certain sentiment, what it was whichthe priest carried, they divided themselves into itwo companies on each side of the way, and fell ion their knees Whereupon the priest, with hisclerk, all amazed, passed between those peaceablebeasts, which then rose up, as if they would makea pompous show in honour of their Creator; fol¬lowed the priest as far as the sick man’s house,where they waited at the door till the priest cameoutlrom it, and did not leave him till he hadgiven them his blessing Father Simon Rodri-gii z, one of the first companions of Sc Ignatius,who then travelled in Italy, informed hi nself care¬fully »f this matter, which happened a little while19lefora our first fathers carrstt into Italy, and found.:hat all had happened as has been told.A Jew' blaspheming the holy sacrament, daredito say, that if the Christians would give it to his;cog, he would eat it up, without showing any'regard to their God. The Christians being veryangry at this outrageous speech, and trusting inithe Divine Providence, had a mind to bring it toa trial: so, spreading the napkin on a table, theyilaid on it many hosts, among which one only wasconsecrated, the hungry dog being put uponthe same table,, began to eat them all, but corn-ring to that which had been consecrated, withouttouching it, he kneeled down before it, and after¬wards fell with rage upon his master, catchinghim so closely by the nose that he took it quiteaway with his teeth.—The same which St. Mat¬thew warns such like blasphemers, saying, ’Givemot that which is holy unto dogs, test th«y turnjagain and rend you.’St, Anthony of Padua, disputing one day withone of the most obstinare hereticks that denied theI truth of the holy sacrament, drove him to such aplunge, that he desired the saint to prove thisi truth by some miracle. St Anthony acceptedthe condition, and said he would work it upon hisI mute. Upon this the heretick kept her three dayswithout eating and drinking; and the third day,the saint having said mass, took up the host, andmade him bring forth the hungry mule, to whomhe spoke thus:—fn the n» e of the Loro, I com¬mand thee tr- come and do reverence to thyCreator, and confound the malice of heretics.20While the saint made Ji's discourse to the mule,.the lieretick sifred out cv s to make the mule eat; ;but the beast bavin? more understanding than hismaster, kneeled before the host, adoring it as itsCreator and Lord. This miracle comforted allthe faithful, and esra?ed ; the heretics; except himthu disputed with the saint, who was convertedto the Catholic faith.About the year 1519, a poor friendless boy, ofwhose birth probably his parents had beenashamed, tended the sheep belonging to the nunsof Scienna, or Sciennes, about a quarter of a milesouth from Edinburgh. It was one of his child¬ish amusements to turn up the white of his eyes,and, in doing if, he succeeded so well, as to beable, at his pleasure, to make himself appear per¬fectly blind The nuns observed him in hisamusement, and spoke of it to some priests andfriars ho were their vsitors. It immediatelyoccurred to them, that if proper care was takenof this young person, he might, in course of time,become the fit subject of a miracle.The innocent child was secreted from publicview, it has been said, seven or eight years, andmostly in one of the cell’, or some retired apart¬ment tn the convent. At the end of that numberof years, his stature and features were so muchaltered, a-s tha: he could not easily be recollectedby the very few persons who formerly had knownhim. Me w now judged to be of a proper ageto be s«it forth as a blind mendicant, and to re¬ceive instructions how he should behave. A per¬son was hired to conduct hit i, who believed himto have been born blind, and to have been hithertosupported chiefly by charitable contributions fromthe ladies of Sienna.The simple younp man, who scarcely knewi any other people in the world than iho.se underwhose tuition he had been held, readily premisedl to obey their injunctions. They bound him by a: solemn, but rash vovr, to affect blindness, andto alms, till they thould advertise htm to thei contrary. He kept hi* promise, and, for a con¬siderable space of time, was ltd through thecountry, receiving such alms as benevolent peoplewere pleased to give him.At last the period arrived, when those priestsand friars who wtre in the secret of his not be¬ing really blind, thought it expedient th -t heshould be received fiom his hard condition.—At the east end of the village of Musselburgh,in Mid-Lothian, was a celebrated cli?pei, dedi¬cated to the honour of the Virgin Mary. Itsproper name was Loretta, but it was vulgarlycalled Alariet, or Lawriet. 1 here was aho achapel of the same name in Path; ann manycredulous people in the Lothians, and at Peith,as well as the people of Loretta, in Italy, believedthat their chapel contuned within it the identicalsmall brick built house in which the blessed Mo¬ther of our Lord had dwelt when ai Nazareth;and that it had been miraculously conveyed andupheld entire, from its original seat, by the minis¬try of angels.—It was in the well ficquented chapel at Mussel¬burgh, and where miracies were most commonlyexpected to be seen, that the pupil of the nunswas to receive his sight. Public intimation, ofl the miracle to be performed, was given in Edin-22burgh, and in the neighbouring parts, and on th»!day appointed, a prodigious number of peopltiwere assembled. They found that there was 3stage erected on the outside ot the chapel. Hav-iing waited a little while, they beheld, led forwardupon this stage, the seemingly blind young man,:whom many of them knew, and whose blindnessthey had probably often pitied He was by priestsand friars, and, no doubt, also by L'homas, theHermit, (a famous worker of miracles,) if he wasthen alive. After some time spent in the use olprayers and ceiemonies, his eyes, to the satisfac¬tion of the multitude, appeared to be perfectlyrestored. The young man, who had long beenrestricted from employing honest means for hissubsistence, now sincerely rejoiced. He returnedthanks to the priests and friars ; and when hejcame down from the stage, was caressed andcongratulated by the people, and some of whpmgave him money.A protestaut gentleman who was present, de¬tected the cheat, and took the young man into hisserviceOf the “many good men” that suffered deathunder Archbishop beaton.—^Fhe first was Mr.:Patrick Hamilton, Abbot, of Perm, a man noblydescended, for he was nephew to the earl of)Arran, by his father and to the Duke of Albany,'by his mother, and not mucti past twenty-thre©years of age. This young man had travelled infGermany, and falling in familiarity with MartiniLuther, Philip Melancthon, Francis Lambert, anc8other learned men, was by them instructed in th«iknowledge of true religion, in the profession:/23.whereof he was so zealous, as he was resolvedito come hack into his country, a»d communicateIthe light he had received, unto others. At hisreturn, wheresoever he came, he spared not toilay open the corruptions of the Roman Church,and to show the errors crept into Christian reli¬gion. The clergy grudging at this, under colour©f conference, enticed him to the city of 8t.: Andrews. Having stayed some few days in thecity, whilst he suspected no violence to be used,lunder night he was apprehended, being in bed,and carried prisoner to the castle -, the next dayihe was presented before the Bishop, accused ofimaintaining the doctrines of the Reformation.I The same day, he was condemned by the secularjudge, and, in the afternoon led to his place ofsuffering, which was appointed to be at the gateiofSt Sa’vator’s college. Utmg come to the place,ihe put off his gown, and gave it, with his bonnet,coat, and other apparel to his servant, saying,Uhis stuff will not help in the i’re, yet will do theesome good ; I have no more to leave ihee but theexample of my death, which 1 pray thee keip in[mind. For albeit the same be bitter, and pain¬ful in man’s judgment, yet is it the entrance toeverlasting hte. which none can inherir, who de-meth Christ b fore this congregation Then washe tied to the stake about it a gredt quantity ofcoal, wood, and oth.r tornbusiible matter was[heaped, whereof he seen ed to have no fear, butseriously commanding his #oul into the hands ofGod, held his eyes fixed towards heaven. 1 heexecutioner firing the powder that was- laid tokindle the wood, his left hand and the side of his[face were a little scorched therewith, yet the fire24did not kindle. Whereupon some were sent tethe castle to bring more powder; whilst this waebringing, he uttered divers comfortaole speechesto them that stood by ; the friars all that timemolesting him with their cries, bidding him con-ivert, pray to our lady, and say Salve Regina;amongst them none was more troublesome thanFriar ^Alexander Campbell, who kept companywith him, at his first coming to the city. Otterhe besought him to depart, and not to vex him :but when he would not cease hw crying, he saulwicked man. thou knowest that I am not a hereticand that it is the truth of God for which I no«|suffer; so much thou didst confess to me in pri-vate, and., therefore, I appeal thee to answer be-*fore the judgment-seat of Christ.The powder by this time was brought, and thsfire kindled, after which, with a loud voice hc|was heard to say, how leng, O Lord shall dark¬ness oppress the realm ? How long wilt thou sufifer this trytanny of men l and then closed hbspeeches with these words. Lord Je ms receiv<my spirit. His body was quickly consumed, fothe fire was vehement, but the patience and conEtaricy he showed in his dying, stirred up suchcompassion on the beholders, as many of thenjdoubted not to say, that he suffered an innocentand was indeed a martyr of Christ.FINIS.