LIFEANDPROPHECIES,hll/i fI*»qeoy ‘Jfh JoI • ~(ALEXANDER PEDENsr 1 un }irrPAi>4 ei> / on l;,aJ/dai o/iicoOt 31G 007li ob tod j k o■gni^d oM .mid oj b:-toh \ • v GLASGl .-'.;G3 9il :*?9; 'PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.THKLIFE AND PROPHECIESOFALEXANDER PEDEN.That most excellent minister of the gospel, andfaithful defender of the Presbyterian Religion,m. Alexander Peden, was born in the parish,of Sorn, near A yr. After his course at the C&l-lege, he was sometime school-master, precentor, ;and session-clerk to Mr. John Guthrie, minister ,of the gospel at Tarbolton. When he was aboutto enter on the ministry, a young woman fellwith child, in adultery, to a servant in the housewhere she stayed; when she found herself to be>o, she told the father thereof, who said, I’ll runor it, and go to Ireland, father it upon Mr. Pe-len, he has more to help you to bring it up (heuaving a small heritage) than I have. The samelay that he was to get his liceiice, she came in)efore the Presbytery and said, t hear you are toicence Mr. Peden, to be a minister; but doitrot, for I am with child to him. He beingwithout at the time, was called in by the moder¬ator ; and being questioned about it, he said, IitAO’amu i.3am Utterly surprised, I cannot speak ; but let noneentertain an ill thought of me;, for I am utterly!free of it, and God will vindicate me in his owntime and way. Ke went home, and walked at awater-side upwards of 24 hours, and would nei-ll ther eat nor drink, hilt said, I have got what Iwas seeking, and I will be vindicated, and thatlH poor unhappy lass will pay deat for it in her life,r| and will make a dismal end ; and for this surfeit!one bf her sex come into my bosom ; and, accord¬ingly he never married. Thebe are various re¬ports of the way that he was vindicated ; somesay, thbtime she was in child-birth, Mr. Guthrieb charged her tb give account who was the father9 of that child, and discharged the women to behelpful to her, until she did it: some say, thatia she confessed : others, that she remained obstin-he people when I made enquiryl bebn at all pains about it, anat) could get no satisfaction, they appointed Mr.f: Guthrie to give a full relation of the whole be¬ll forts the congregation, which he did ; and thebh same day the father of the child being present,s' whfih he heard Mr. Guthrie begin to speak, heon Stood up, and desired him to halt, and said, I ama the father of that child, and I desired her to fo¬il! of grief that she hath given me, there shall nevercountry-side, affirmed, that thether it on Mr. Peden, which has been a greattrouble of conscience to me ; and I could not getrest till I came home to declare it. However itis certain, that after she was married, every thingwent cross to them ; and they went from place toplace, and were reduced to great poverty. Atlast she came to that same spot of ground wherehe stayed upwards of 24 hours, and made awaywith herself!2. After this he was three years settled min¬ister at New Glenluce in Galloway; and whenhe was obliged, by the violence and tyranny ofthat time, to leave that parish, he lectured uponActs xx. 17. to the end, and preached upon the31st. verse in the forenoon, ‘ Therefore watch,and remember that for the space of three years Iceased not to warn every one, night and day,with tears:’ Asserting that he had declaredthewhole counsel of God, and had kept nothing backand protested that he was free of the blood of allsouls. And, in the afternoon he preached on the32d verse, ‘ And now, brethren, I commend youto God, and to the word of his grace, which isable to build you up, and to give you an inher¬itance among all them that are sanctified.’Which was a weeping day in that kirk; the great¬est part could not contain themselves: He manytimes requested them to lie silent; but they •or-3rowed most of all when he told them that theyshould never see his face in that pulpit again.He continued until night; and when he closedthe pulpit-door he knocked hard upon it thre*times with his Bible, saying three times over, Iarrest in my Master’s name, that never one enterI there, but such as come in by the door, as I did.Accordingly, neither curate nor indulged minis.i ter ever entered that pulpit, until after the revolu-il tion, that a Presbyterian minister opened it.3. After this he joined with that honest andis zealous handful in the year 1666, that was brokenill at Pentland-hills, and came the length of Clydei with them, where he had a melancholy view of' ■ their end, and parted with them there. Jame»’ > Cubison, of Paluchbeaties, my informer, to whom>i!l he told this, he said to him, * Sir, you did wcl]M that parted with them, seeing you was persuaded:• ! they would fall and flee before the enemy—GloryII glory to God, that he sent me not to hell im-ni mediately! for I should have stayed with themirl! though I should have been cut all in pieces.4. That night the Lord’s people fell, and fled9tj before the enemy at Pentland-hills, he was in ali friend’s house in Carrick, sixty miles from Edin-ii burgh; his landlord seeing him mightily troubled,‘ enquired how it was with him; he said,‘ Tomor»• t row I will speak with you,* and desired some cah-6(dle. That night he went to bed. The nextmorning calling early to his landlord, said, ‘ Ihave sad news to tell you, our friends that were. together in arms, appearing for Christ’s interest,are now broken, killed, taken, and fled every■man. ’—the truth of which was fully verified inabout 48 hours thereafter.5. After this, in June 1673, he was taken byMajor Cockburn, in the house of Hugh Fergu¬son, of Knoekdow, in Carrick, who constrainedhim to tarry all night. Mr. Peden told him thatit would be a dear night to them both. Accord¬ingly they were both carried prisoners to Edin¬burgh, Hugh Ferguson was fined in a thousandmerks, for resetting, harbouring, and conversingwith him. The Council ordered fifty poundssterling to be paid to the Major out of the fines,and ordained him to divide twenty-five poundssterling among the party that apprehended him.Some time after examination he was sent prisonerto the Bass, where, and at Edinburgh, he re¬mained until December, 1668, that he was ban¬ished.6. While prisoner in the Bass, one Sabbath¬morning being about the public worship of God;a young lass, about 13 or 14 years of age, cameto the chamber-door mocking with loud laugh¬ter: He said, ‘ Poor thing, thou mocks and7taaghs at the worship of Go$, hut ere Itfng Godshall write such a sudden, surprising jndgtftehton thee, that shall stay thy laughing, and thoushalt not escape it.’ Very shortly after, she waswalking upon the rock, and there came a Bfcfttol wind and sweeped her into the sea, where sHcperished. While prisoner there, one day walkingupon the rock, some soldiers passing by him, oneof them saidf Devil take him. He said, Fy, fy,poor man, thou knowest not what thou art saying;but thou wilt repent that—At which word thesoldier stood astonished, and went to the guarddistracted, crying aloud for Mr. Peden, saying,the devil would immediately take him away. Hocame to him again, and found him in his rightmind under deep convictions of great guilt. Theguard being to change, they desired him to goto his arms; he refused, and said, he would liftno arms against Jesus Christ his cause, and per¬secute his people, he had done that too long. Thegovernor threatened him with death, to-morrowabout ten of the clock ; he confidently said, threetimes, though he should tear all his body in pie¬ces, he should never lift anns that way. Aboutthree days after, the governor put him out of thegarrison, setting him ashore. He having a wifeand children, took a house in East Lothian,where he became a singular Christian. Mr. Peden told these astonishing passages to the fore*said John Cubison and others, who informedme*7. When brought from the Bass to Edin¬burgh and sentence of banishment passed uponhim, in Dec. 1678. and sixty more fellow-pris¬oners, for the same cause, to go to America, ne¬ver to be seen in Scotland again, under the painof death; after this sentence was past, he severaltimes said, that the ship was not yet built thatshould take him and these prisoners to Virginia;or any other of the English plantations in A-merica.—One James Kay, a solid and graveChristian, being one of them, who lives in orabout the Water of Leith, told me, that Mr. Pe-den said to him, ‘ James, when your wife comesin, let me see herwhich he did After somediscourse, he called for a drink, and when hesought a blessing, he said. ‘ Good Lord, let notJames Kay’s wife miss her husband, till thou re¬turn him to her in peace and safety; which weare sure will be sooner than either he or she is look¬ing for.’ Accordingly, the same day-month thathe parted with her at Leith, he came home toher at the Water of Leith.8. When they were on shipboard at the Wa¬ter of Leith, there was a report that the enemieswere to send down thumbkins to keep them from9rebelling; at the report of this, they were dis¬couraged : Mr. Peden canie above the deck andsaid, ‘ Why are ye discouraged ? You need notfear, there will neither thumoleins nor bootkinscome here : lift up your hearts and heads, for theday of your redemption draweth near; if we wereonce at London, we will be set at liberty.’—Andwhen sailing on the voyage, praying publicly, hesaid, ‘ Lord, such is the enemies hatred at theeand malice at us for thy sake, that they will notlet us stay in thy land of Scotland, to serve thee,though some of us have nothing but the canopyof thy heavens above us, and the earth to treadupon; but, Lord, we bless thy name, thwt willcut short our voyage, and frustrate thy enemiesof their wicked design, that they will not get uswhere they intend; and some of us shall go rich¬er home than we came from home.* JamesPride, who lived in Fife, an honest man, beingone of them, he said many times, he could assertthe truth of this, for he came safely home; andbeside other things, he bought two cows: and be¬fore that, he never had one. I had these accountsboth from the foresaid James Kay and RobertPunton, a known public man, worthy of all credit,who was also under the same sentence, and livedin the parish of Dalmeny, near Queensferry.R. When they arrived at London, the skipper10who received them at Leith, was to carry them HOfurther. The skipper who was to receive themthere, and carry them to Virginia, came to seethem, they being represented to him as thieves,robbers, and evil-doers; but when he found theywere all grave Christian men, banished for Pres¬byterian principles, he said he would sail the seawith none such. In this confusion: that the oneskipper would not receive them, and the otherwould keep them no longer, being expensive tomaintain them they were all set at liberty. Somereported that both skippers got compliments fromfriends at London; however, it is certain theywere all set free without any imposition of bondsor oaths; and friends at London, and on theirway homewards, through England shewed muchkindness unto them.10. That dismal day, June 22d, 1679, atBothwel-bridge, that the Lord’s people fell, andfled before the enemy, he was forty miles distant,near the border, and kept himself retired until themiddle of the day, that some friends said to him,‘ Sir, the people are waiting for sermon.’ Hesaid, ‘ Let the people go to their prayers; forme, I neither can nor will preach any this day;for our friends are fallen, and fled before theenemy at Hamilton ; and they are hanging and11fyiatijpg them down, and their blood is runninglike water 111. After this, he was preaching in Galloway rjin the forenoon he prayed earnestly for the pris¬oners taken at and about Bothwel; but in the af¬ternoon, when he began to pray for them, hehalted and said, ‘ Our friends at Edinburgh, theprisoners, have done something to save their livesI that shall not do with them, for the sea-billows(i|| shall be many of their winding-sheets; and then few of them that escape, shall not be useful toi God in their generation.’ Which was sadly ver¬bified thereafter. That which the greatest part ofII these prisoners did, was the taking of that bond,u gommonly called the Black Bond, after Bothwel,i wherein they acknowledged their appearance iiiit arms, for the defence of the gospel and their ownj liyes, to be rebellion; and engaged themselvesa i)ever to make any more opposition : upon the do¬ling of which, these perfidious enemies promisedjjjtbem life and liberty. This with the cursed andsubtile arguments and advices of ministers, whowent into the New Yard, where they were pris¬oners, particularly Mr. Hugh Kenendy, Mr.jj William Crighton, Mr. Edward Jamieson, andiljylr. George Johnston; these took their turn iclithe yard where the prisoners were, together witLa letter that was sent from that Erastian meeting12»f miiiisterg, met at Edinburgh in August 1679,for the acceptance of a third indulgence, with acautionary bond. Notwithstanding of the ene¬mies’ promise, and the unhappy advice of min¬sters not indulged, after they were ensnared inthis foul compliance, they banished 255, whereof205 perished in the Orkney-sea. This foul step,as some of them told, both in their life, and whendying, lay heavy upon them all their days; andthat these unhappy arguments and advices of min¬isters, prevailed more with them than the ene¬mies’ promise of life and liberty. In August1679, fifteen of the Bothwel-prisoners got indict¬ments of death. Mr. Edward Jamieson, aworthy Presbyterian minister, as Mr. Woodrowcalls him, was sent from that Erastian meetingof ministers into the Tolbooth to these fifteen,who urged the lawfulness of taken the bond tosave their lives ; and the refusal of it would be areflection to religion, and the cause they had ap¬peared for, and a throwing away their lives, forwhich their friends would not be able to vindicatethem. He prevailed with thirteen of them, whichsoured in the stomachs of some of those thirteen,and lay heavy upon them both in their life anddeath. The prisoners taken at and about thetime of Bothwel, were red oned about fif:eenhundred. The faithful Mr. John Blackad.* did13Wilt* to tlie*e prisoners, dissuading them fromthat foul compliance; and some worthy personsof these prisoners, whom he wrote to, said to mei with tears, that they slighted his advice, and•wallowed the unhappy advices of these minis¬ters who were making peace with the enemies olGod, and followed their foul steps, for which theywould go mourning to their graves. I heard thei tame Mr. Blackader preach his last public seri mon before falling into the enemies’ hands in thei night-time in the fields, in the parish of Living¬stone, upon the side of the Muir, at New-house,i on the 23d. of March, after Bothwel, where he^lectured upon Micah iv. from the 9th. verse, where: he asserted, That the nearer the delivery, ourpains and showers would come thicker and sorer> :jupon us ; and that we had been long in the fields,i jbut ere we were delivered, we would go down tofitBabylon ; th&t either Popery would overspreadiithis land, or be at the breaking in upon us likeoon inundation of water. And preached upo»nithat text, ‘ Let no man be moved with thesellafflictions, for ye yourselves know, that ye are ap*i'.pointed thereunto.’ Where he insisted on what^moving and shaking dispensations the Lord had;»xercised his people with in former ages, especi-(tally that man of God, that went to Jeroboam ati Bethel, and delivered his commission faithfully14and yet wa§ turned put of the way J?y an old ly¬ing prophet; how moying and stumbling themanner of his death was to all Israel I And ear¬nestly requested us tp take good heed whatministers we heard, and what advice we follow¬ed. When he prayed, he blessed the Lord thathe was free of both band and rope : and that hewas as clearly willing to hold up the public blesfstandard of the gospel as ever: And said, TfipLord rebuke, give repentance and forgiveness tothese ministers that persuaded these prisoners totake that bond. For their perishing by sea wasmore moving and shocking to him, than if somethousands of them had been slain in the field.He was thereafter taken, the 6th. of April, byMajor Johnston, in Edinburgh, and detainedprisoner in the Bass, where he died. As the in¬terest of Christ lay near his heart through his life,amongst his last words he said, The Lord will de¬fend his own cause.17. ^Shortly after that sad stroke at Bpthwehhe went to Ireland, but did not stay long at thattime. In his travels through Galloway, he cameto a house, arid looking in the goodman’s face, hesaid, They call you an honest man, but if yoube so, you look not like it, you will not longkeep that name, but will discover yourself to bpwhat you are. And shortly after, *he was made15:>| & Am for sheep-stealing. In that short time hewas in Ireland, the Governor required of allPresbyterian ministers that were in Ireland, thatthey should give it under their hand, that theyhad no accession to the late rebellion at Bothwel-bridge, in Scotland, and that they did not approvei of it; which the most part did; and sent Mr.i . Thomas Gowans, a Scotsman, and one Mr. Pa¬tou, from the north of Ireland to Dublin, to pre¬sent it to the Lord Lieutenant: the which whenMr. Peden heard, he sad, Mr. Gowans and hispi brother Mr. Paton are sent and gone the devil’si'ierrand but God will arrest them by the gate,i And accordingly, Mr. Gowans, by the way, wasstruck with a sore sickness, and Mr. Paton fellsi1 from his horse, and broke or crushed his leg; andjboth of them were detained beyond expectation.I I had this account from some worthy Christiansiiwhen I was in Ireland.18. In the year 1682. he married John Brownin Kyle, at his own house in Priesthall, that sin-Igylar Christian, upon Marion Weir. After mar-rurge; he said to the bride, Marion, you have! gqt a good man to be your husband, but yourvyili not enjoy him long ; prize his company, andiikenp linen by you for his winding-sheet, for youi;wUlneed it when you are not looking for it, andit will be a bloody one. This came sadly to pass16in the begun dug of May, 16$;>, a£ atterwawlishall appeal .19. After this, in the year 1082, he went toIreland again, and came to the house of WilliamSteel, in Glemvharry, in the county of Antrim;he enquired at Mrs. Steel if she wanted a servantfor threshing victual ? She said they did, and en¬quired what his wages were a-day, or a-week.He said, the common rate was a common rule;to which she assented.—At night he was put tobed, in the barn, with the servant-lad; and thatnight he spent in prayer and groaning, up anddown the barn. On the morrow he threshed vic¬tual with the lad, and the next night he spent thesame way. The second day, in the morning, thelad said to his mistress, This man sleeps none,but groans and prays all night; I get no sleep forhim: he threshes very well, and is not sparing ofhimself, tho’ I think he has not been used with it,foi he can do nothing to the botteling and order¬ing of the barn; and when I put the barn in or¬der, he goes to such a place, and there he praysfor the afflicted Church of Scotland, and namesso many in the furnace He wrought the secondday, and his mistress watched and overheard himpraying, as the lad had said.—At night she de¬sired her husband to enquire if he was a minister,which he did, and desired him to be fr«« with•fcrr'-* . —| 17him, and he should not only be no enemy to him,but a friend. Mr. Peden said, he was not asham¬ed of his office; and gave an account of his cir-t icumstances. He was no more set to work, nor to•lie with the lad; and he staid a considerable timein that place, and was a blessed instrument in thei conversion of some, and civilizing of others,iljthough that place was noted for a wild rude peo-i iple, and the fruit of his labour appears unto this;day. There was a servant-lass in that house,m that he could not look upon but with frowns: and11 sometimes, when at family-worship, he said, point-iiing to her with a frowning countenance. Youi icome from the barn and from the byre reeking inmyour lusts, and sits down among us; we do not:i want you, nor none such. At last he said to' ) William Steel and his wife, Put that unhappy-;ilass from your house, for she will be a stain tou your family, for she is with child, and will mur-ii)der it, and will be punished for the same. Which«accordingly came to pass, and she was burnt atq| Carrick fergus, which is the punishment of mur-i u derers of children there. I had this account fromIJohn Muirhead, who staid much in that house,and other Christian people, when in Ireland.20. After this, he longed to be out of Ire¬land, through the fearful apprehensions of thatdismal day of rebellion in Ireland, that cam* up-18on it four yeais thereafter) and that he mighttake part with the sufferers in Scotland. Hecame near the coast one morning: John Muir-head came to him; lying within a hedge: hesaid. Have you any news, John ? John said'There is great fear of the Irish rising. He said)no, no, John, the time of their arising is not yet;but they will rise, and dreadful will it be at last.He was long detained waiting for a bark, not dar¬ing to go to public parts, but to some remotecreek of the sea. Alexander Gordon of Kinstuinin Galloway, had agreed with one, but Mr. Pe.den would not sail the sea with him, having someforesight of what he did prove afterwards.—Inthe beginning of August before this, Kinstuir wasrelieved at Entevken-path, going from Dumfriesto Edinburgh prisoner; when the news of it cameto Ireland, our Scots sufferers, their acquaintance?were glad of the news, especially that Kinstuirhad escaped. Mr. Peden said, What means allthis Kinstuiring ?—There is some of them re¬lieved there, that one of them is worth many othim; for ye will be ashamed of him ere all bedone. Being in this strait, he said to RobertWark, an old worthy Christian, worthy of credit.Robert, go ami take such a man with you andthe ti rst Bark ye can find, compel them, for theywill be like the dogs in Egypt, not one of them19vffl more their tongue against you. Accordingly1 Robert and his comrade found it so and broughther to that secret place where ho was. When' Robert and his comrade came and told him’, h8#as glad and very kind and free ; but he seemedunder a cloud1 at that time. Ho gaid lads, I havelost my prospect wherewith I was wont to lookever to the bloody land, anti tell you and otherswhat enemies and friends were doing; the deviland I puddles and rides time-abont upon one an¬other : but if I were uppermost again, I shall ridehard, and spurgaw well. I have been prayingfor a swift passage over to the sinful land, comeof us what will: and now Alexander Gordon isaway with my prayer-wind; but it were good forthe remnant in Scotland he never saw it; for asthe Lord lives, he shall wound that interest ere, he go off the stage.—This sadly came to pass inhis life, and was a reproach to it at his death. Alittle before they came off, he baptised a child toJohn Maxwell, a Glasgow man, who was fled■ over from the persecution: in his discourse be¬fore baptism, ho burst out into a rapture, fbre-| telling that black day that was to come uponIreland, and sad days to Scotland, and after alltbero was to come good days. Mrs. Maxwell, ofHilary Blphingston, the mother Of tile child, yetAfire in Glasgow, told me this, That in the tinMhe was asserting these things, she was thinkingand wondering what ground of assurance he hadfor them, when he cried aloud shaking his handat her, woman, thou art thinking and wonderingwithin thyself, whether I be speaking these thingsout of the visons of my own head, or if I be taughtby the Spirit of God; I tell the, woman, thoushalt live and see that I am not mistaken. Shetold me, that she was very lately delivered, andout of her great desire to have her child baptisedbefore he came off, that she took travail too soon;and being weak, and so surprised with his tellingher the thoughts of her heart, that she was indanger of falling off the chair. At this exercisealso he told them, that he could not win off till hegot this done, and this was all the drink-money,he had left in Ireland, and to the family (pointingto the landlord ) for all the kindness he had metwith from them. After baptism they got breakfast; there was plenty of bread upon the table,seeking a blessing, he put his hand beneath thebread, and holding it up with much aflection andtears, said, “ Lord there is a well covered table,and plenty of bread : but what comes of the pooryoung, kindly, honest hearted lad Renwick, thatshames us all, in starving and holding up hisfainting mother’s head, when of all the childrenshe has brought forth, there is none will avowed*21y take her by the hand : and the poor, cold, hunry lads on the hills ? For honour of thine ownause, let them not starve : thou caused a raven-,us bird, greedy of flesh itself, to feed Elijah:nd thou fed thy people in the wilderness withingel’s food : and blessed a few loaves and smallishes, and made them sufficient for many; andad experience of want, weariness cold and hun-.er, and enemies daily hunting for thy life, while:i the world; look to them, and provide for them.”’he Waiters being advertised of the bark beingJj» that place, they and other people came uponi lem, which obliged them that were to come off,• > secure the Waiters and people altogether, fortar of the garrison of Carrickfergus apprehend-ig them, being near to it, which obliged themjj) come off immediately, twenty-six of our ScotsOfferers came aboard, he stood upon the deck and(irayed, there being not the least wind, where hemade a rehearsal of times and places, when and•rhere the Lord had heard and answered them in■ tie days of their distress and how they were in aiitreat strait.—Waving his hand to the west, fromPice he desired the wind, he said, ‘ Lord give afull of wind: fill the sails Lord and give us agale, and let us have a swift passage overie bloody land, come of us what wilL’—Johnrhead, Robert Wark, and others who wertt22present, told me, that when he began to pray, th«sails were all hanging straight down, but ere he.ended, they were all like blown bladders. They |jput out the Waiters and other people and got a Ivery swift and safe passage—The twenty-sixScots sufferers that were with him, having provid-ed themselves with arms, and being designed to ji .<return to Scotland, there being then such a noise I sof killing ; and the report was no greater than the Idbeed, it being then in the heat of killing time, in j tthe end of Febuary 1685. when at exercise in thebark, he said, ‘ Lord thou knowest these lads arehot spirited, lay an arrest upon them, that theymay not appear; their time is not yet; thoughMonmouth and Argyle be coming, they will workno deliverance.’ At that time there was no re- !port of their coming, for they came not for tenweeks thereafter.—In the morning after theylanded, he lectured before they parted, sitting up¬on a brae-side, where lie had fearful threatenings 11,against Scotland saying, the time was coming jthat they might travel many miles in Galloway;! ijand Nithsdale, Ayr and Clydesdale, and not sesfiu*a reeking house, nor hear a cock crow. lijun28. When the day of his death drew near, andJ;.not being able to tr avel, he came to Ids brother M«1r,house, in the parish of Sorn, where lie was born#.)He caused dig a cave with a saughen bush cover* ||»23ing the mouth of it, near to his brother’s houseand the enemies Game and searched the housenarrowly many times. In the time that he wasin this cave, he said to some friends, 1. ThatGod shall make Scotland a desolation. 2. Thereshall be a remnant in the land, whom God shouldspare and hide. 3. They should lie in holes andcaves of the earth, and be supplied with meatand drink: And when they come out of theirholes, they shall not have freedom to walk, forstumbling on the dead corpses. 4. A stone cutof a mountain, should come down, and God shallbe avenged on the great ones of the earth, andthe inhabitants of the land, for their wickedness,and then the church should come forth with abonny bairn-time of young ones at her back.1 He wished that the Lord’s people might lie hidi in their caves, as if they were not in the-world,id for nothing would do it, until God appeared withid his judgments, and they that wan through theid bitter and sharp, short storm, by the sword ofdi the Freriches, and a set of unhappy men, takingi] part with them, then there would be a spring-tideBl day of the plenty, parity and power of the g«s-jq pel: Giving them that for a sign, If he were butonce buried, they might be in doubts ; but if he>'< were oftener buried thaft onfce, they might be per-i i tuaded that all he had said would come to pass:24And earnestly desired them to take his corps#out to Airdsmoss, and bury them beside Richy( meaning Mr. Cameron ) that he might get restin his grave, for he had gotten little through hislife; but he said he knew they would not do it.29. Within forty-eight hours he died, Janu¬ary 28th. 1686, being past sixty years; and wasbuired in the Laird of Afflect’s Isle. The enem¬ies got notice of his death and burial, and senta troop of dragoons, and lifted his corpse andcarried him to Cumnock-gallows foot, and buriedhim there (after being forty days in the grave )beside others. His friends thereafter laid agrave-stone above him, with this inscription ;HERE LIESMr. ALEXANDER PEDEN,A Faithful Minister of the Gospel,at Glenluce,Who departed this life January 28, 1686,And was raised after six weeksOut of his Grave,! iJimrn m-juj train*, nu hht.And buried here out of contempt.lud •craw oii il iei Inin ftrariJ :iy*fad ti iud : stduob ui r»cf Jrigim v 'di .banud wnfflranojlo ,-Wroa jn^un (mu . . -«osnsint