THfcBL.UE1 BEARD;OR, THEEFFECTS OF FEMALE CURIOSITY.TO WHICH 18 ADDEDTHE MURDER HOLEAN ANCIENT LEGEND.PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.20mmm» r,■ ir . '. ? QU ) Mia •••:• r» . %iaibj.i :*iu p fiaon fciit .. • imti'iu'iji-:■'.• i •; ■- ‘i; . ' iUtTl ■ t'-|l .THE STORY OFBLUE BEARD.There was, some time ago, a gentleman.vho was extremely rich: he had elegantown and country-houses; Lis dishes anddates were of gold or silver; his roomsAcre hung with damask; his chairs andsofas were covered with the richest silks;ind his carriages were all magnificentlygilt with gold.But, unfortunately, this gentleman hadId blue beard, which made him so veryfrightful and ugly, that none of the ladiesIn the neighbourhood woidd venture to gointo his company.It happened that a lady of quality, whoi ived very near him, had two daughters,b\vho were both extremely beautifid. BlueI Beard asked her to bestow one of themJ upon him in marriage, leaving to herself thedioiee which of the two it should be.They both, however, again and againrefused to marry Blue Beard; but to lie asdvil as possible, they each pretended thatthey refused because she would not deprive4her sister of the opportunity of marry insso much to her advantage. But the truttwas, they could not hear the thought;of having a husband with a blue beard;and, besides, they had heard of his havingalready been married to several wives, ancnobody could tell what had afterwards be¬come of them. • • •As Blue Beard wished very much to gaittheir favour, he invited the lady and heidaughters, and some ladies who were on ?visit at their house, to accompany him ttone of his country seats, where they spenta whole week; during which nothing waethought of but parties for hunting andfishing, music, dancing, collations,1 and themost delightful entertainments. No onethought of going to bed, and the nighhWere'parsed in merriment of every kind.' ;oTiV •short, the time had passed so agreesabhy that the youngest of the two sistersbegan to think that the beard which had s<;much terrified her was not so very blue; andthat the gentleman tb whom it belongedwas vAstly civil and pleasing. niti. i ;Soon after they returned home, she toldher mother that she had no longer any oht*jection to accept of Blue Beard tor her hus¬band ; and'accordingly m a short time they1were married.About a month after the marriage hadtaken place, Blue Beard told his wife thatte should be obliged to leave her for a lew! reeks, as he had some business.to do in theountry. He desired her to he sure to procuref ’Orself every kind of amusement; to invitei a many of her friends as she liked, and toii mat them with all sorts- of delicacies, thathe time might pass agreeably during hisihsence. “ Here,” said he, u are the keys!f the two large wardrobes.:. This is /theHey of the great box that contains the bestSlate, which we use for company: thiselongsJLo my strong box, where I keep myroney; and this to the casket in whichviire all my jewels. Here also is a master|||ey to all the apartments in my house ;--djufcmis small key belongs to the closet.at thQfind of the long' 'gallery ion the g'roniHl floor.:|| give you leave,'’ continued he, ‘d to opo(tbjr do wliat you like vritit* all the rest eyee^jf*i er this closet: this, i my dear, you must dptir, nor even put: the t key iiito the Jock,r all the world. Should: you disobey me,xpect the most dreadful of punishmentsd’,?She promised to obey his:orders in thenost faithful manner ; and Blue Beard,tier tenderly embracing her, stepped s into1 ns carriage and drove away. cuhnii nd1 The friends of the bridle did not, one his occasion, wait to he invited, so impatientvere they to see all the riches and magm6ficence she had gained by marriage; for theyhad been prevented from paying. their wed¬ding visit by their aversion to the blue beardof the bridegroom.No sooner were they arrived than theyimpatiently ran from room to room, fromcabinet to cabinet, and then from wardrobeto wardrobe, examining eacli with the utmostcuriosity, and declaring that the last wrasstill richer and more beautiful than what theyhad seen the moment before. At lengththey came to the drawing-rooms, where theiradmiration and astonishment were still in¬creased by the costly splendour of the hang¬ings, of the sofas, the chairs, carpets, tables,girandoles, and looking-glasses, the framesof which were silver gilt, most ricldy orna¬mented, and in which they saw themselvesfrom head to foot.In short, nothing could exceed the mag¬nificence of what they saw; and the visitorsdid not cease to extol and envy the goodfortune of their friend, who all this time wasfar from being amused by the fine compli¬ments they paid her, so eagerly did shedesire to see what was in the closet henhusband had forbidden her to open. So greatindeed was her curiosity, that, without recol¬lecting how uncivil it would he to leaveher guests, she descended a private staircasethat led to it, and in such a hurry, that she; ,«'as two or three times in danger of breakingher neck.When she reached the door of the closet,i !she stopped for a few moments to think oij the charge her husband had given her, amt3 that he would not fail to keep his word in:■ punishing her very severely, should she dis-)bey him. But she was so very curious toj enow what was in the inside, that she deter-nined to venture in spite of every thing.She accordingly, with a trembling hand,ut the key into the lock, and the doorinmediately opened. The window-shutter*ioeing closed, she at first saw nothing ; butm a short time she perceived that the flooras covered with clotted blood, on which theies of several dead women were lying,ihese were all the wives whom Blue Bear dpad married and murdered, one after another,die was ready to sink with fear, and thecey of the closet door, which she held in herliand, fell on the floor. When she hadiornewhat recovered from her fright, she tookt up, locked the door, and hastened to heri >wn room, that she might have a little timeo get into humour for amusing her visitors;ut this she found impossible, so greatly wasdie (terrified by what she had seen.As she observed that the key of the closet. rad got stained with blood in falling on the( ioor, she wiped it two or three times over todean it;, still, however,the blood remainedt^^jaii^fyas. bgfhpj washed it, butthe blood did not stir at all; she then scouredit with brickdust, and afterwards with sand,but notwithstanding all. she could do, theblood was still there; for the key was a fairy,whfliWrM Blue Beard’s friend,, so that asfa$t us she got it off on one side, it appearedagain on the.other...Barly in the eypuing;Blue1Beard returnedhome; saying, he had not proceeded far onhisijourney before he was met by g messen-ger.'iwbo was coming to tell him that hisbwliness was happily concluded without hisbeing present: upon which his wife saidevery tiling she could think of, to make himbdieve she was transported with joy at hisunexpected return.^ ) .„!• i ]• liThe n,ext morning he asked her for thekeys: she gave them to him; but as sh«:doukl not help showing her fright, BlueBeard easily guessed what had happened,,“ How is it,” said he, “that the key of,thecloset !U pom the ground-floor isj not here ?1r^dls: it not? then 1 must have left it quiriy dressing-table,” said she, and left the]room in tears. “ Be sure you give it meby:and by'” cried Blue Beard.fj'After going several .times backwards andforwards, pretending tolook for the key,shewas at last obliged to give it to Blue Beard.He looked at it attentively, and then said .|f “ How came the blood upon the key ?” <£ 1is am sure Ido not know,” replied the'lady,turning' at the same tmie as'pale as death.I ^ You do not know,” said Blue Beard stertilyi1i kniiw' w^il dA'0u^liiJ 1' Ithf e 'lieeriIn^ie ylfe^t7-6n ''the' ^rmfdd-i,fio'drirr Vostl'yli|ell, madam; since y'hh^are'36’ n¥ig-htily! fond of thiB closet, you shiill certainly take; your place among the ladies you^aw there.”' His wife, almostiieM'SVlth1 ftarpfell Wphnher knees^ a£ked M's pai'ddn d thon^and timedI for her disobedience, and entreated hiffi toiford!j g'n e her; Idoking all the time so very sorrowsi! lid and lovely, that she would have meltedli imy hdart that was not harder titan a rock.'But Blue Beard answered ; “ No, noyI madam ; you shall die this very Minute Bt 1u Alas !” said the poor trembling creature,“ if I must die^allow me, at -leastyfa'dittlei time to say my prayers." -i p:/!i! 0 (i I giie ybu;’5 Replied thecruel BlueBdandyS“ half a quarter of'tin honr; not oilemnbrment longer.” mdJ i b'!i> .tr >.1 vyoH ’When; Blue Beard had left her to herseWyshe called her sister; and after tfellingi her,as well as she could for sobbingj-that shehad but half a quarter ref an hour to live 5<£ Pr’ythee,” said she, ‘‘sister AnnMi<thi8i was her sister’s name,) “run up to the .top; of the tower, and see if iny-hrotherfe avc/jwt/ 1 >1 Avpj r>t !ifo10in sight; for they promised to come andvisit me to-day; and if you see them makea sign for them to gallop as fast as possible. ”Iler sister instantly did as she was desired,and the terrified lady every minute calledout to her, ££ Ann ! sister Ann ! do you seeany one coming ?” and her sister answered,” I see nothing but the sun, which makes adust, and the grass which looks green.In the meanwhile, Blue Beard, with agreat scimetar in his hand, bawled as loucflas he could to his wife ££ Come down iipjstantly; or I will fetch you.”££ One moment longer, I beseech you,”replied she; and again called softly to her,sister: ££ Sister Ann, do you see anyonecoming?” To which she answered, ££ I se^nothing but the sun, which makes a dust^,and the g-rass which looks green.”Blue Beard now again bawled out,j££Come down, I say, this very moment, orI shall come and fetch you.”££ I am coming: indeed I will come in one,minute;” sobbed his unhappy wife. Thenshe once more cried out, ££Ann! sister,Ann! do you see any one coming?” ££lsee,” said her sister, ££ a cloud of dust a little,to the left.” ££ Do you think it is mybrothers?” continued the wife. ££Alas! no,dear sister,” replied she; ££ it is only a Hockof sheep.”11“ Will you come down or not, madam ?”lid Blue Beard, in the greatest rage imag-i aable.! “Only one single moment more,” answered. lie. And then she called out for the last time,[j Sister Ann ! do you see any one coming ?”' “I see,” replied her sister, “ two men onDrseback coming to the house ; but they•e still at a great distance.”“God be praised!” cried she ; it is myji -others: give them a sign to make whatMiste they can.M At the same moment Blue Beard criedit so loud for her to come down, that hisilice shook the whole house.1 The poor lady with her hair loose, and her|es swimming in tears, instantly cameipwn, and fell on her knees to Blue Beard,'jld was going to beg him to spare her life ;rat he interrupted her saying, “ All this isM no use at all, for you shall die :” then seiz-g her with one hand by the hair, andaping the scimetar he held in the other,is going with one blow to strike off her.1 ad.I; The unfortunate creature turning towardsin, desired to have a single moment allowedill llj bU HtlVC (X llltJilIC.lli r to recollect herself." | “ No, no,” said Blue Beard, “ Ii u no more time, I am determined—you1 veha d too much already;” and againwill give12raising his arm—Just at this instant ;loud knocking was heard at the gates, whirlmade Blue Beard wait for a moment to se«who it was. The gates were opened, and twtofficers, dressed in their regimentals, entered, and, with their swords in their hands raninstantly to Blue Beard; who seeing the*were his wife’s brothers, endeavoured t<escape from their presence; but they pursuerand seized him before he had gone twentysteps; and, plunging their swords into hebody, he immediately fell down dead at thenfeet.The poor wife who was almost as dead asher husband, was unable at first to rise and,embrace her brothers. She soon, however,recovered; and as Blue Beard had no heirs,she found herself the lawful possessor of hi;great riches.She employed a portion of her vast fortunein giving a marriage dowry to her sisterAnn, who soon after became the wife of ayoung gentleman by whom she had long,been beloved. Another part she employeJin buying captains’ commissions for her two 'brothers; and the rest she presented to a most <worthy gentleman, whom she married soonalter, and whose kind treatment soon madeher forget Blue Beard’s cruelty.THE END.THE MURDER HOLE.AN ANCIENT EOGtXD.IIn a remote district of country beloiig-ingto Lord Cassillis, between Ayrshire andGalloway, about three hundred years ago,a moor of apparently boundless extent stretch¬ed several miles along the road, and weariedthe eye of the traveller by the sameness anddesolation of its appearance; not a tree variedthe prospect^—not a shrub enlivened the eyeby its freshness—nor a native flower bloomedto adorn this ungenial soil. One (lonesomedesert’ reached the horizon on every side,with nothing to mark that any mortal hadever visited the scene before, except a fewrude huts that were scattered near its centre;and a road, or rather pathway, for thosewhom business or necessity obliged to passin that direction. At length, deserted asthis wild region had always been, it becamestill more gloomy. Strange rumours arose,that the path of unwary travellers hadbeen beset on this c blasted heath,’ and thattreachery and murder had intercepted thesolitary stranger as he traversed its dreary14extent. When several persons, who wereknown to have passed that way, mysteriouslydisappeared, the enquiries of their relativesled to a strict and anxious investigation:but though the officers of justice were sentto scour the country, and examine the in¬habitants, not a trace could be obtained of thepersons in question, nor of any place of con¬cealment which could be a refuge for thelawless or desperate to horde in. Yet, asinquiry became stricter, and the disappear- :ance of individuals more frequent, the simpleinhabitants of the neighbouring hamletwere agitated by the most fearful apprehen¬sions. Some declared that the death-likestillness of the night was often interruptedby the sudden and preternatural cries ofmore than mortal ang’uish, Avhich seemed toarise in the distance; and a shepherd, oneevening, who had lost his way on the moor,declared he had approached three mysteriousfigures, whoseemeLl struggling against eachother with supernatural energy, till at lengthone of them, with a frightful scream, suddenlysunk into the earth.Gradually the inhabitants deserted theirdwellings on the heath, and settled in distantquarters, till at length but one of the cot¬tages continued to be inhabited by an oldwoman and her two sons, who loudly la¬mented that poverty chained them to thisii solitary spot. Travellers who frequentedthis road now generally did so in groups, toprotect each other: and if night overtookthem, they usually stopped at the humblecottage of the old woman and her sons,where cleanliness compensated for the wantof luxury, and where, over a blazing lireof peat, the bolder spirits smiled at theimaginary terrors of the road, and the moretimid trembled as they listened to the talesof terror and affright with which their hostsentertained them.One gloomy and tempestuous night inNovember, a pedlar boy hastily traversedthe moor. Terrified to find himself involv¬ed in darkness amidst its boundless wastes,thousand frightful traditions connectedacross hisin hollowteem withawith this dreary scene, dartedasmind—every blast, as it sweptgusts over the heath, seemed tothe sighs of departed spirits—and the birds,as they winged their way above his head,appeared, with loud and shrill cries, to warnhim of approaching danger. The whistlewith which he usually beguiled his wearypilgrimage, died away in silence, and hegroped with trembling and uncertain steps,which sounded too loudly in his ears. Thepromise of Scripture occurred to his memory,and he revived his courage.—i I will beunto thee as a rock in the desert, and as a16place of safety.’ This heart-consolingpromise inspired him with confidence, andlie continued for a time to make, with re- ‘newed vigour his w’ay across tlie moorAt length, however, wearied and faintthrough fatigue, he was compelled to casthis pack on the ground, and in the midst of"!the pitiless storm rested himself thereon, jIhus situated, lie frequently, arid with"much anxiety looked, to see, that if per¬chance, some place of shelter might lienear, but noilnng met Iris eye but dark¬ness, and that occasionally made more vi¬sible and fearful by the lightning, whichever anon struck through the gloom.Resigning himself to his unhappy fate,the poor benighted pedlar boy, anticipat¬ed nothing but perishing ere, the cheeringlight of day should again lighten the earth.Despair had a second time nearly takenpossession of Ins soul, when he suddenlystarted to Ins ieet, and tunriiig round,to Iris great astonishment arid' joy, the1ight of a taper appeared to conic from apot not far distant: ii few minutes’ walkbrought him to he window7 whence thelight issued, he looked in arid saw sev¬eral individuals busily engaged drinkingrourid a cheerful lire. He now made forthe door, wjii'ch when he came at Was filin’17ly locked. 'Hie boy in a frolicsome mood,thouglitlessly tapped at the window, whenthey all instantly started up with conster¬nation strongly depicted on their counte¬nances, that he shrunk back involuntarilywith an undefined feeling of apprehension ;bet before he had time to reflect a mome!!'longer, one of the men suddenly darted oulof the door, and seizing the boy roughly bythe shoulder, dragged him violently intothe cottage. 11 am not what you take mefor,’ said the boy, attempting to laugh, ‘butonly the poor pedlar who visited you lastyear.* ‘ Are you alone ?’ enquired the oldwoman in a harsh deep tone, which madehis heart thrill with apprehension. ‘ Yes,’said the boy, ‘ 1 am alone here; and alas !’he added with a burst of uncontrolablefeeling, »I am alone in the wide worldalso ! Not a person exists who w ould assistme in distress, or shed a single tear if 1 diedthis very night.’ ‘Then you are welcome!’said one of the men with a sneer, while hecast a glance of peculiar expression at theother inhabitants of the cottage.It was with a shiver of apprehension,rather than of cold, that the boy drewtowurds the the, and the looks which the oldwoman and her sons exchanged, made himwish that he had preferred the shelter of anyone of the roofless cottages which were scat-18tered near, rather than trust himself amongpersons of such dubious aspect.—Dreadfulsurmises flitted across his brain ; and terrorswhich he could neither combat nor examineimperceptibly stole into his mind; but alone,and beyond the reach of assistance, he re¬solved to smother his suspicions, or at leastnot increase the danger by revealing them.The room to which he retired for the nighthad a confused and desolate aspect; thecurtains seemed to have been violently torndown from the bed, and still hung in tattersaround it—the table seemed to have been 'broken by some violent concussion, and thefragments of various pieces of furniture layscattered upon the floor. The boy beggedthat a light might burn in his apartment jtill he was asleep, and anxiously examined 1the fastenings of the door; but they seemed to ;have been wrenched asunder on some former '■]occasion, and were still left rusty and broken, jIt was long ere the pedlar attempted to ||compose his agitated nerves to rest; but at |length his senses began to ‘steep themselves iin forgetfulness,’ though his imaginationremained painfully active, and presented newscenes of terror to his mind, with all the ;!vividness of reality. He fancied himself.gain wandering on the heath, which ap-peared to be peopled with spectres, who all Ibeckoned to him not to enter the cottage,19, | And as lie approached it, they vanished withii a hollow and desparing cry. The sceneihen changed, and he found himself againseated by the fire, where the countenances; of the men scowled upon him with the most11 terrifying malignity, and he thought thel'j old woman suddenly seized him by die arms,11 and pinioned them to his side. SuddenlyI the boy was startled from these agitatedslumbers, by what sounded to him like acry of distress; he was broad awake in amoment, and sat up in bed,—but the noisewas not repeated, and he endeavoured topersuade himself it had only been a continu¬ation of the fearful images which had dis¬turbed his rest, when on glancing at thedoor, he observed underneath it, a broad redstream of blood silently stealing its coursealong the floor. Frantic with alarm, itwas but the work of a moment to springfrom his bed, and rush to the door, through achink of which, his eye nearly dimmed withaffright, he could watch unsuspected, what¬ever might be done in the adjoining room.His fear vanished instantly when he per¬ceived that it was only a goat that they hadbeen slaughtering; and he was about to stealinto his bed again, ashamed of his ground-j less apprehensions, when his ear was arrestedby a conversation which transfixed him".ehast with terror to the spot.20This is an easier job than you had yes¬terday/ said the man who held the gnat.41 wish all the throats we’ve cut were aseasily and quietly done. Did you ever hearsuch a noise as the old gentleman made lastnight! It was well we had no neighbourwithin a dozen of miles, or they must haveheard his cries for help and mercy.’4 Don’t speak of it/ replied the other; i Iwas never fond of bloodshed.’i Ha! ha!’ said the other with a sneer,4 you say so, do you ?’4 I do/ answered the first gloomily; 4 theMurder Hole is the thing for me—that tellsno tales—-a single scuffle—a single plunge-—and the fellow is dead and buried to yourhand in a moment. I would defy all theofficers hi Christendorti I to discover any mis¬chief there. Vr-:,; s'athoH edl -yd Ifeiqtmtnj4 Ay, i -Nature did us a good turn when shecontrived such a place as that Who that1 |saw a] hole in the heath, filled with clear Iwater, and so small that the long grass meetsover the top of it, would suppose that thedepth is unfathomable, and that it conceals!more than forty people who have met their'deaths there?—it suefif them in like a!leech!’4 How do you mean to dispatch the lad inthe next room ?’ asked the old woman in annudor tone. The elder son made her a Sign21to be silent, and pointed towards the doorwhere their trembling' auditor was concealed,while the other, with an expression of brutalferocity, passed the blood knife across histhroat.The pedlar boy possessed a bold and dar-ng spirit, which was now roused to despera¬tion ; but in any open resistance the oddswere so completely against him, that flightseemed his best resource. He gently stole! to the window, and having by one desperateeffort broke the rusty bolt by which the case¬ment had been fastened, he let himself downwithout noise or difficulty. This betokensgood, thought he, pausing an instant indreadful hesitation what direction to take.This momentary deliberation was fearfullyinterupted by the hoarse voice of the' mendling aloud, ‘ The boy has fled—let loosethe blood-hound ! ’ These words sunk likea death-knell on his heart, for escape appearednow impossible, and his nerves seemed tomelt away like wax in a furnace. Shall Iperish without a struggle! thought he,rousing himself to exertion, and, helpless andterrified as a hare pursued by its ruthlesss|hunters, he fled across the heath. Soon thebaying of the blood-hound broke the stillnessK the night, and the voice of its masterssounded through the moor, as they endeav-aired to accelerate its speed,—panting andbreathless the hoy pursued his hopeless career^,but every moment his pursuers seemed togain upon his failing steps. The hound wasunimpeded by the darkness, which was ttjhim so impenetrable, and its noise runglouder and deeper on his ear—while thlanterns which were carried by the meugleamed near and distinct upon his vision. *At his fidlest speed, the terrified bo;fell with violence over a heap of stones, amhaving nothing on but his shirt, he wajseverely cut in every limb. With one wiicry to heaven for assistance, he continuprostrate on the earth, bleeding, and nearlyinsensible. The hoarse voices ol the men,|and the still louder baying of the dog, werenow so near, that instant destruction seemedinevitable,—already he felt himself in theirfangs, and the bloody knife of the assassinappeared to gleam before his eyes,—despairrenewed his energy, and once more, in anagony of affright that seemed verging;sotowards madness, he rushed forwardrapidly that terror seemed to have givenwings to his feet. A loud cry near the spdhe had left arose on his ears without suspending his flight. The hound had stoppeat the place where the Pedlar’s wounds bleso profusely, and deeming the chase now]over, it lay down there, and could not binduced to proceed; in vain the men beat if]23with frantic violence, and tried again to putthe hound on the scent,—the sight of bloodhad satisfied the animal that its work wasdone, and with dogged resolution it resistedevery inducement to pursue the same scenta second time. The pedlar boy in the mean¬time paused not in his flight till morningdawned—and still as he fled, the noise ofsteps seemed to pursue him, and the cry ofhis assassins still sounded in the distance.Ten miles oft' he reached a village, andspread instant alarm throughout the neigh¬bourhood—the inhabitants were aroused withone accord into a tumult of indignation—several of them had lost sons, brothers, orfriends on the heath, and all united in pro¬ceeding instantly to seize the old wroman andher sons, who were nearly torn to pieces bytheir violence. Three gibbets wrere immedi¬ately raised on the moor, and the wretchedculprits confessed before their execution tcthe destruction of nearly fifty victims in theMurder Hole which they pointed out, andnear which they suffered the penalty of theiicrimes. The bones of several murdered per¬sons wrere with difficulty brought up fromthe abyss into which they had been thrust;but so narrow is the aperture, and so ex¬traordinary the depth, that all who see itare inclined to coincide in the tradition ofthe country people that it is unfathomable.24The scene of these events still continues near¬ly as it was 300 years ag'o. The remainsof the old cottage, with its blackened walls,(haunted of course by a thousand evil spirits,)and the extensive moor, on which a moremodern inn (if it can be dignified with ailepithet) resembles its predecessor in everything but the character of its inhabitantsthe landlord is deformed, but possesses exltraordinary genius; he has himself maim’;factored a violin, on which he plays withuntaught skill,—and if any discord be heardin the house, or any murder committed in it,this is his only instrument. His daughterhas inherited her father’s talent, and learntall his tales of terror and sdescribes, with all the animation of an eye¬witness, the struggle of the victims g'rasp-ing the grass as a last hope of preservation,!and trying to drag in their assassin as anexpiring' effort of vengeance,—when youare told that for three hundred years thbclear waters in this diamond of the deserthave remained untasted by mortal lips,and that the solitary traveller is still pursuedat night by the howling of the blood hound.—it is then only that it is possible fully toappreciate the terrors of the murder hole.she relates with infiniteFINIS.