THBCelebrated HistoryOF THERobin Hood,CAPTAINOf the Merry Outlaws of Sherwood Forest.FALKIRK:1 *PRINTED BY T. JOHNSTON.IRobin HoodIn the time of Richard I. king ofEngland, the famous Robin Hood wasborn at a village in Nottinghamshire,and near which were many large forestsfilled with deer. His father was a ran¬ger of the forest, and he had a rich oldold uncle, Squire Gamewell, a brotherof his mother’s who lived about twentymiles distant. When Robin had reach¬ed his thirteenth year, it was determin¬ed that he should pay his uncle a visitat Christmas; and accordingly,,afterputing on a new suit of clothes, he setoff on horseback, with his mother be-4hind him. On reaching GamewellHall, they met with a hearty welcomefrom the Squire, who had a greatcompany at his house, and the day wasspent in great merriment. It was herethat Robin got intimate with LittleJohn, f rom whom his uncle had sent todivert them with his droll tricks ; butthe company was astonished, whenRobin got up and played all the tricksafter him, and in a better style. TheSquire was so delighted with his ne¬phew, thas he promised to make himhisheir, ifhe wouldremainat GamewellHall. Robin consented to stay, pro¬vided he got little John to attend him,for a great intimacy had taken placebetween them.Robin Hood, to a very handsomeperson, added a courageous and inter-prising spirit, and a disposition nobleand generous ; but his uncle’s indul¬gence obscured his better qualities.Exceptan occasional visit to his parents,Robin lived always at Gamewell Hall,where he passed his time agreeablyaway in wrestling, quarter-staff, archery,and other athletic diversions, in all ofwhich he excelled ; and was attendedby Little John, who was a ready assis-5tant in every mischievous prank.Robin had gone to pay his father avisit, when the Squire being suddenlytaken ill, a messenger was dispatchedto hasten him home ; but the danger¬ous stateofhis mother’s health prevent¬ed him from leaving her till a late houron the following day. In the mean¬time, the Squire finding himself dying,sent for a monk in order that he mightmake his peace with Heaven, and whoprevailed on the dying man to sign adeed, convey iugall he had to the church,as the only means of saving his soul.When Robin arrived at the Hall, hisuncle was dead, and the monks, whohad taken possession of the house, shutthe doors against him, and would givehim nothing, which was a sad reverseto poor Robin, for he had been broughtup as a gentleman without learning anybusiness, and was unable to gain a live¬lihood. On turning from the Hall, hefound Little John waiting for him, and,determined to unite their fortunes,they resolved logo to Sherwood Forestand support themselves by their bows.Although the Forest abounded withdeer, Robin found that other comfortswere necessary, which could not be1f)procured without money; and thinkingthat the monks who had deprived himof his estate ou^ ht to supph t his, helaid every priest under contribution.The fame of ifohiw Hood, and themerry life,he k-d, soon drew a numberof young men to join his band, and in¬creased it to above one hundred of thebravest fellows in the kingdom, whomhe clothed in green. When the monks,from being so often plundered, cameless in the way, Robin’s men were o-bliged to extend their depredations toother parts of the country It was onlyto priests, and the niggardly rich, thatRobin Hood was an enemy ; for he heldthe person and property of every womansacred, and always took the part of the\v»ak and injured. By the poor peoplehe was adored, for he generously sup¬plied their wants from his own privatepurse.Robin Hood, who loved a-good jokeas well as good booty, meeting' one daya jelly-looking butcher on horseback,who "was going- to Nottingham fair,with panniers on each side, made a bar¬gain for the mare and panniers, and anexchange of clothes. The butcherhaving putting on tne fine green mini-form, Robin dressed and mounted, as abutcher, and rode straight to Notting¬ham market, where he hired a stall,and began to dispose of his meat,given more foi; one penny than thebutchers could do lor five, so that theysold nothing. The butchers supposinghim to be some senseless spendthrift,and that a good bargain might be gotof him, asKed him to dine withthem. Robincossented, and alter dinnerinsisted on paying the bill which was msooner'observed by die Sheriff, ia n: mr.gold miser, who was master noth of themarket and tavern, than lie determin¬ed to take advantage of it, and said tohim “ Good fellow hast thou any horn¬ed beasts to sell ?” “ .Yes, good MasterSheriff',” replied Robin, If you pleaseto go and see them.”Tiie Sheriff immediately ordeied oi?this horse, and putting three hundredpounds in gold into a bag, rode of withRobin on the road that leads throughSherwood Forest. On entering theForest the Sheriff exclaimed, “ Godpreserve us from the man called Robintiood !” and they had not proceededfar when a number of fat deer wereseen skipping about. “ How do youlikemy horned beasts, Master Sheriff?”said llobin ; “ these are the cattle 11told you of.” “ To tell you the truth,”replied he, I don’t like your company,and wish I Were safely in Nottingham Jagain.”- Robin blew three blasts withhis buglehorn, and Little John, with a!number of the merry men, immediately iappeared. “ Here comrades,” said he,“ 1 have brought the Sheriff of Notting¬ham . to dine with you to-day, and Ihope he will pay for his dinner.” TheSheriff was forced, much against hisinclination, to go and dine with them.After the entertainment, Robin easedhim of three hundred pounds he had inthe bag to pay for his intended pur¬chase, and then placed him on his horse,he led him out of the Forest, and de¬sired to be kindly remembered to hiswife.One morning as Robin was strollingin the Forest, he saw a genteel-lookingyoung man sitting under a tree, whoappeared to be very melancholy anddejected. He desired one of his bow¬men to bring the young man to him ;and when he came, Robin inquired thecause of his sadness. The young manman, taking a ring from his pocket.9ssid, “ 1 was to have been marriedyesterday to a young lady whom I havelong courted, and I bought this ring forthe occasion, but the Bishop of Here¬ford, her uncle, has rejected me, andmeans to give her to an old wealthyknight. Robin inquired whether theyoung lady had consented to her uncle’schoice or not, and when, and where theceremony was to take place. Allan-a-dale (for that was the name of theyoung man) told him that the lady wasforced to comply much against her in¬clinations, and that the marriage wasto take place that day in the parishchapel, about five miles from the forest.When Robin heard the bishop’s name,who was his great enemy, and the timeand place, he told Allan.a-dale to puton a cheerful look, and he would en¬sure him of getting his mistress. “ Ifyou incline to join our bowmen,” saidRobin “ bring your bride to the forest,and let her live with us; but if you donot like our merry life, you are atliberty to carry her to where you please.”Alian-a-dale agreed to join the bowmen,as with them he felt himself sure ofprotection ; and then seeing there wasno time to lose, Robin disguised him-10self as a harper, ami ordered twenty-four of his bowmen aud Allan-a-daleto follow him ; but proceeded to thechurch alone, where he found thebishop putting on his robes, who askedhim what lie wanted, Robin told himhe was a harper, come to offer hisservices at the wedding. On the oldknight and the bride making their ap¬pearance, Robin stepped forward, andsaid, “ I cannot allow this marriage togo on, for the bride must have her ownchoice Then pulling out his horn,he gave three blasts, and the bowmenentered the church. “ Young lady,”said Robin, “as you are now free, seeif there is any one here you wouldchoc'e for your husband.” She nosooner saw Aiian-a-dale, than she sprangto him, and said, “ Here is my choice.”Robin requested the bishop to proceed ; ‘but as he refused, he pulled of his robesand put them on Littlejohn, who tookthe book, and went through the cere¬mony very gracefully, Robin givingaway the bride. The bishop and theold knight slunk out of'the church, andthe rest of the party went off to cele¬brate the wedding at Sherwood Forest.The bishop of Hereford was so en-11raged at the trick played him, that hemade several excursions to SherwoodForest with a party of soldiers,, onpurpose to take Robin prisoner. Oneday as Robin was walking alone in theForest, he heard the trampling ofhorses behind him, and looking about,saw the b'shop with six of his followersin pursuit of him. As they were onlyat a short distance behind him, Robinhad no time to lose, therefore he ranforward till he reached the cottage of apoor old woman, into which he rushed,and begged her to save his life. Sheimmediately exchanged clothes withhim, and as the bishop came in withhis men, Robin got clear off. Whenhe came in sight of his band one of thebowmen who observed him coming,cried out, “A witch, a witch!” andwas about to let fly an arrow athim, when Robin discovered himself.He then told Little John to kdl a fatdeer, as the bishop of Hereford was todine with them, and taking his bowmenalong with him, went to a particularI spot to wait lor his guest,hen the liishop entered the cot¬tage, he seized the old woman, who wasin Robin’s clothes, and said, “ I knowyou are one of Robin Hood’s gang, o.therefore take me-to where he is, andyour life shall be saved.” The oldwoman, who had got her directionsfrom Robin, agreed to take him ; andbeing soon mounted, they rode to anopening in the Forest, where Robin’sbowmen were all drawn up, when theBishop asked “ Who are these ? “Ithink it is Robin Hood, whom youwant, and his merry men,” replied she,“but I cannot be certain, for I am onlyapoorold woman, who changed clotheswith him.” The bishop, after bestow¬ing a hearty malediction on the oldwoman, was turning to ride off; butRobin brought him down from hishorse, and forced him to partake oftheir good cheer. After dinner hemade the Bishop dance a hornpipe, to 1the no small diversion of the bowmen ;and having eased him of five hundredpounds, as payment of his reckoning,they led him and his followers to thehigh road, where the bowmen gavethree cheers, and then returned to theForest.One fine summer day, when themerry bowmen were enjoying theirports, and trying each other’s prowess,13Robin, elated with his own superiority,,said, “ My friends, do you know anyman that can match me at wrestling,Iplaying the quarter-staff, or killing adeer?’’ Will Scarlet, who bore Robina kind of a grudge, replied, “ I haveif,eard of a friar in Fountain Abbey,who will draw a bow, wrestle, or hand¬le a quarter-staff, with any man alive.”‘Say you so,’’ said Robin; “I willsoon have proof of thatand takingMs bow and quarter-staff with him,went to the neighbourhood of theAbbey, where he saw a tall brawnyfriar walking by the river side, andinstantly knew him to be the man hewanted. Robin tied his horse to atree, and came up to the friar, said,“Carry me over this river, thouarawny friar, or I will crack thycrown.” The friar returned no an¬swer, but immediately took Robin uponIds back, and carried him to the otheridde without speaking a single word.Robin leaped off the friar’s back, andpretended to be going away ; but theifriar stopped him saying, “ Carry meAack again, thou fine fellow, or it shalljreed thee pain.” Robin took the friarm his back; and having carried himacross the water, he then insisted othemonk taking him over a^ain, or hwould break his bones. The friar tooRobin on his back ; but on coming 1the middle of the water, he threw biiin, saying,Now my fine fellow, takyour choice, whether thou wilt sink oswim.” Robin, however got to lamas soon as the friar; and challengehim to wrestle, shoot, and to a bout aquarter staff; but at none of thescould he beat the friar, nor the friahim. Robin was so well pleased witlthe friar that he wanted him to joiithe merry men ; but the friar wouhnot consent, and even tiied to persuad*Robin to turn monk ; so they shoolhands and parted good friends.One day, as Robin was in search oadventures near the skirts of the foresthe met a priest wrell mounted, with cfat buck across his saddle, and disguised in a countryman’s frock. Being iiw’ant of a horse, he resolved to rob theparson, and laying hold of the bridleordered him to dismount; but tinpriest struck a furious blow' at Robicwith the butt-end of his whip, winch htreceived on his staff, and soon broughtthe priest to the ground.15After lobbing the person of bis>ney and horse, and requested to heimembered in his prayers, Robin roadfor Stratford On the road he felli with a rich country dealer going tojUrchase goods'* at Lancaster, withthorn he soon got acquainted, and theyJavelled together,; but the merchant.as so close, that Robin could makeothing of him. On reaching Coventry,i here thev dined together, and dranknme good wine and ale, Robin toldiiis fellow-traveller, that as the roadsney had to travel were so dangerous,le safest way was to conceal theirmney in their boots, and on seeingobin deposite a bag of gold, the mer-hant did the same. 1 hey again con-nued their journey until they came topart of the road which crossed twoays, where Robin pulled of the mer-bant’s boots, in which he got threeundred pieces of gold, and rode off>r Sherwood Forest.At one time, when the finances ofle merry men were very low, , theyi ^solved to plunder the rich convent oft. Mary, .*nd to carry offtheimage ofle Holy Virgin, which was of solidIver. Under the disguise of a poor:)16bliad ministrel and his mother, RobiiHood and Little John gained addmit |lance to the convent; and, when themins and friars had returned to theiicells, opened the gates to their companions. The alanh soon spreacitl rough the convent, and every oneflew to the chapel for protection ; bufthe bowmen having already enteredjthe place, were proceeding to spoilit of what was most valuable, and totake down the silver image, when oneof the nuns cried out, “ Oh, mercy willthey take away the gift of our queen,even while she is within our walls?”On hearing this, Robin said, “ Mybrave comrades, desist, and let not dis¬loyalty be ranked among our errors;this house and all within it are renderedsacred by the presence of QueenEleanor !” The bowmen instantly o-beyed their leader ; and as they quittedthe convent, Robin told the nuns tobless the queen for preserving theirimage, which otherwise would havebought wine to the Sherwood venison.,When the queen heard of the be¬haviour of Robin Hood, and that hisrespect for her alone had saved theconvent from being plundered, she was17so much pleased, that she determinedto be a friend to him and his men.Soon after King Richard’s returnfrom Palestine, he proclaimed a grandshooting match to take place in thepalace grounds, and prizes were to be| awarded to the best marksmen. QueeniEleanor, thinking this a favourableopportunity to execute her design infavour of Robin Hood, told the king,that she could bring one hundred men,Iwho would beat the most skilful of hislarchers. The king requested her to(bring forward her champions, and ifhey were victorious, he would not onlyestow on them the prizes, but grantier any boon she asked, 'The queeninmediately dispatched the followingnessage to Robin Hood: “ Queentleanor greets you well, requestinghat you will take one hundred of yourjowmen with you, and hasten to Lon-lon ; for a great match at the bow is toake place there, and she has chosen!-ou and your men to be her cham->ions.”On the appointed day, in presence»f the whole court, the king’s archers,1 vho were thought to be the best in thei ingdom, ranged themselves on one18side, while the queen’s champions, allelad in green, with Robin Hood at theiilhead, took their station on the othersbut the queen was the only person therewho knew them. After sounding thetrumpets, King Richard announced theprizes which were to be bestowed opthe-best marksmen, and the courtiersbegan to offer bets of six ro one in fa-1vour of the king’s men ; but no onewould bet against them.“ Will no knight venture his moneyon my side 3 said the queen. “ Come,Sir Robert Lee, you must try ycur for-.tune ;” but the knight begged to be>excused, as there was no chance oftsuccess. The queen then asked thaBishop of Hereford, Robin Hood’s oldfoe; but he swore by his silver mitre,that he would not bet one penny, “liyou won’t bet on the queen’s side, howmuch will vou venture on the king’s ?’said Robin, “ All the gold I have wit!',me, which is five hundred pounds,” re¬plied the Bishop, & he laid the moneyon the ground. Robin immediatelyproduced a bag of the same value, -ane.threw it down upon the green.Before the bowmen began, Queer.Eleanor craved this boon from the kina'19that he should not be angry withany of her archers; but that theyshould be free to stay at court duringthe match, and afterwards to have fortyfdays to retire to where they pleased.; fKing Richard agreed to this ; and then' jordered the targets to be placed. The‘■jking's archers lodged about 40 arrowsfin the target; but Robin’s bowmen,fo the astonishment of all the court,>laced all their arrows in the mark.The captain of the king’s archers,ichallenged Robin to shoot three arrowswith him for 100 pounds; to which! Robin agreed, on condition that hewould shoot one at the mark he pro¬duced. A fresh target was set up, andthe captain, aiaidst thunders of ap-lause, fixed his three arrows in theery centre cf the target; but Robin,vitli seeming carelessness, let fly hisist arrow, which split the centre onedo shivers, and.stuck in its place. Ro-|bin then caused two willow wands toe stuck in the ground at double dis¬tance, observing, that this was the kindVf mark he was accustomed to, andhallenged all the king’s archers to a.rial; but, as none of them durst ven-ure after what they had seen, Robin,Iwith the remaining two arrows, clov*|both the wands. The king’s bowmerfwhispered to each other, that he musbe the devil, for there never was sueif1archery seen before; but the Bishop oHereford said to the king, “I knov:now who they are ; that is Robin Hootand these fellows are his band.” Thking would not have allowed them t<depart; but as his word had been already given for their security, he mada noble feast, bestowing on them tinprizes, and sent them away with honour.■King Richard often though of th<wondreful dexterity shewn by RobirHood and his band, and having hearcof many of their generous actions, hiregretted that they were outlaws, whoby plundering those whom he waibound to protect, were therefore enemies to the state. Sometimes he woultffexclaim, “ If I could make these outlaws faithful subjects, what a pride the)would be to my coint!”One day Queen Eleanor entered, &craved the boon he had promised t<grant if her champions were victorious“ My dear Richard,” said she, “ th<SI|oon I ask, is the free pardon of RobinHood and his men, who will, I am cer¬tain, prove themselves worthy of your3leniency, and be a valuable acquisi-ioi) to your crown.” “My dear mo-lier said he, “ I can refuse you nothing;,ut, before 1 grant your request, I mustfce Robin Hood again, in order to dis¬cover what his sentiments are; forShich purpose I mean to disguise my-■If immediately, and go to Sherwoodjjorest.As the Queen approved of this,pchard, accompanied by twelve of hispilrtiers, all disguised as monks,liounted their horses, and proceeded) the Forest. Robin Hood, who ob-prved them at a distance, thought itas a whole monastery ot friars, ande determined to plunder them. Kingichard, who was taller than the rest,»de,foremost, and Robin taking him■r the abbot, seized his horse by the•idle, saying, “ Abbot, stand and de-^er your money; it was a monk thatlined me, and I have sworn to spareme of your fraternity.” “ But wee going on the kin j’s message,” saidichard. When Robin heard this, he. go the bridle, saying, “God savehim land confound all his enemies l*“ Thou art cursing thyself,” saidvtking ; “for thou art a robber, an eoiaw, and a traitor.” “ Were you n|,his messenger,” returned Robin, *twould say you lied ; lor. I neVer inji. ied the honest and industrious man ;protect women and children, and ?the poor around me ; it is only fro ithe miserly rich, and those who li: rfupon the labours of others, that I talanything; but, as you are King Ric iard’s servants, I will not deprive ycof a single penny, and also excuse wh ;you have said.” Robin asked them spartake of his good cheer before thuproceeded on their journey. This biing exactly the thing that the kir?wanted, in order to sound Robin, If,gave a ready consent, and then sai| )“ Was you not afraid singly to attac;thirteen men?’ ‘i am net afraidten thirteens,’ returned Robin ; theputting his horn to his mouth, he ble •a shrill bldst, and one hundred ar ififty of his bowmen instantly appear®in view*. The king was so charmed wit:?the sight, and the manner in whic;they obeyed their captain, that hecou inot help thinking they were mut:23letter trained than his own men.After dinner, the pretended monksgain mounted their horses, and werereparing to take their leave of theowmen, when the king said to Robini.ood, ‘ Now my brave fellow, if I weret procure your pardon and that ofDur men, would you turn faithful andtleful subjects ?’ This being the firsttsh of Robin’s heart, and for someist always uppermost in his thoughts,i replied, “ jbbot, I am tired of thismd of life; aud though some mayi|aise our bold adventures and gener-s actions, yet l now hate every[ling connected with it. Were King"chard, who is a gallant soldier andenerous prince, to pardon our of-ces, and take us into favour, heuld never have reason to repent hismency, for he would find us thest loyal and peaceful of his subjects.”Behold your king said Richardling' a part of the monk's cloak,ich discovered the star and other|ignia. Robin and his bowmene instantly on their knees before“Rise up my brave fel-your leader is now Earl ofntingdon, which is his just right.24from being next heir to the late earfljI restore you again to society, by freeJ'lpardoning ail your past offences ; anilI expect from your future good ba|havionr, and the service which youare able to render me by your skill ambravery, if you are inclined, never bhave cause to repent my kindness.”Robin Hood, now Earl ot Huntingdon, and his bowmen, immediate!swore allegiance to the king ; and btheir good conductaftervvards, Richarwas induced to place them near hiown person as a body guard.I