ANew liasTOKic.%].Cvnio.ining Answers to Important Queitlcns, inTlii; Light of t!ie Hoathen World—the Miracles thathappened at ouv Saviour’s Birth—the Usurpation;,One! Murders, and Miserable Death of Kerrxl—the Deaths of Pontius Piiate, Nero, and f irn.nrMagus—the Destruction of Jerusalem—the Sto¬ries of the Divining Ape, and Seven Sleepers, &*•CATECHISM(•Asieieiii History,BELATIVE TOPAISLEY:PRINTED BY G. CALDWELL,18-289■'.—A NEW HISTORICAL[ perceive you have liad an opportunity of read-ancient histories.i. Give an account if the-Jieathen world had anyaimering light of a Redeemer, as was given to A-iliam and his offspring.A. As history shews, they had a very clear light,Adam ( who had converse with God and withangels) limd^above 2i0 years after Methufealems born, and Methusalem lived above 500 after>ah was born, and Noali lived about GO years af-Abraham was burn, who might converse togeth-; and in the days of Abraham lived ZoroastPs,0 was a heathen, or Gentile, yet a very learned■n, and might converse with Abraham and Noah,1 others of the most ancient fathers; for the, Ro¬ns had their learning from the Egyptians, 'and> Egyptians from the Chaldeans, as the Jen s fi omases, and Moses from the Patriarchs, &e.Q. In what age of the world did Job live ?A. Job lived the second a*ge of the wot Id, ands in the days of Abraham, Zoroastes; and/as hi»-V relates, was & latnous instance of patiei csgjjol-ss, and virtue. 4G. Bnt does history relate of no prophet that wasongst the heathen or Gentile world, that dU pro-?cy ot a Redeemer among the Jews i yA. Yes; there is evident intimation in the Writ"p of Zoroastes, concerning the h’on of Go;i, au J4Hermes Trlsongiistus, wlio was his scholar, ha.manifest understanding of the second person of thTrinity, and calls him the first begotten Son of Gohis only Sen, his eternal, immutable, and incorrupt:hie Son. And after him, Orpheus, Hesiod, and thPlatoists, who were Grecians, writ to the same purpose ; apd besides those, there arose ten women, whhaving the spirit of prophecy, and were called Sybil.*tittered many speeches concerning Christ, of his birdfind life, of his miracles, death, suffering, and resin:lection, which they spoke in more plain terms thathose of the Jews, but they understood them not.Q. Had not the heathen world many oracles, tiigspoke and told them evenis, that was to happen?' A. The priest of Apollo, enquiring of his oraclconcerning God, and the true religion, had his answer in Greek, “ O thou unhappy priest, why dosthou ask me of God, who is Father of all thingsthat most renowned King, and his dearly and on!;Son, and the Spirit that contained] all, will short!;compel me to leave this habitation, and utter n*more oracles.”Q. What answer had Augustus Csesar when hw *.nt to enquire of the oracle A pci o, at Delpheswho should be his successor, and what should happen after his death?A. The Oracle was long silent; and the Emperorcontinued to offer many sacrifices, at length Apolloas if enforced, said:—“An Hebrew child, whid!ru;eth over all gods, commands me to leave this ha ibitarion, and to return forthwith to hell.”Q. Was there not many remarkable prodigies thahappened about the time and birth of our Saviottr ?’/». Yes; it is recorded by Eusebius and others!.that , at lti» birth, a fountain of pure oil broke fortlat a public inn at Some, and run freely a whole day;and that at noon in a fair-day, a circle was Been u-bout the sun, as resplendent as tho sun itself. A miComester in his scholastic history affirms, that on theday of Christ’s Birth, a temple at Home, dedicated tothe poddess Pax, fell to the ground, which was toldl>y the oraele of Apollo, that if should continue till avirgin should bring forth a child, which they judgedimpossible; and that it should stand for ever. Andlikewise Lucas searching in ancient Chronicles of thehistory of Spain, found there recorded, that the Famenight wherein our Saviour was horn, there appearedin Spain at Midnight, a cloud with so great a lightthat it seemed like mid-day.Q. Was not t.h'^se remarkable prodigiep, whichthen happened, applied by some learned persons toAugustus Caesar, who then reigned prosperously ?A. There was so, as Josephus testifies, hut themore divinely inspired, interpreted it to signify himwho Isaiah prophesied should have the governmentupon his shoulders, even the Saviour of the world.Q. Did not the Senate of Rome offer to bestowthe title of our Lord upon. Augustus Ctesar.• A. Oclavious Caesar, sirnamed Augustus, afterhis civil Wars, wherein he was engaged with mpnvother troubles, and much bloodshed, was advancedto the imperial throne, and that liberty, peace, andsecurity was then established, tiie Senate offeredcrown him wirh the title of {Prince of Peace, wide’,'some write he denied that honour, and unknowinglysaid, that a greater Lord than him was to come intothe world, to whom that, title more justly belonged.Q. \i as not then Josephus living in our Saviour’sdays ?A. He was not then born in our Saviour’s doys.hsl6but was born five years after Christ’s passion, aadwas thirty-five years old at the time of the destruc-rion of Jerusalem.Q. Was Herod of the seed or blood-royal of thetribe of Judah ?A. Herod was a man of Idumea, and being rich,. politic, and ambitious, and very comely, every way(jualified for a courtier, that Hyrcanous, king of Ju¬dea, of the house of David, gave to him l^is daugh¬ter in marriage, and made him governor in Galilee;and when Hyrcnnus was taken prisoner by the Par,thiaiis, ahd carried to-that country, Herod fled toHome, and there, by the favour of Mark Antonyobtained the kingdom of Judea, though his father-in-law was«still alive in Parthia. No sooner had hetaken possession of the kingdom of Judea, than hecaused all the blood-royal to be put to death, as like¬wise his wife Mariamne, with forty of the principlemen of Judea, and slPthe Sanhedrim, of seventy-two Senators, that'mlad the people; and burnt allthe chronicles, and genealogies of all the kings andprinces of Judea, causing Nicholas Damasceus todraw out his pedigree, and to affirm that he descend¬ed from the ancient kings of that country ; yet whenall this was done, Jesus, of the same house and lineof David, was born in Bethlehem ; and then was ex¬actly fulfilled the prophecy of eld Jacob, that the.sceptre, &c.Q. Was there not several imposter, that took theadvantage, and declared themselves to he Christ ?A. As all the traditions of the ancient Jews point¬ed at the coming of the Mes.-ias in the reign of Au¬gusta,?, and all the people had such expectation ofhim, that several impostors took upon them thatthey were Christ, and led away much people, asJudas G0selins (and another Judas) both lewd fel.7luu’.-s as Antoaffes a shepherd, antl-two others call-ed Theadas and Egyptus ; hut above ail was Bar-Mzhama, who was for above thirty years togetherreceived by the Babbies themselves for the Messiasbut seeing that he was not able to deliver them fromtheir subjection to the Romans, at last killed him;us likewise Simon Magus, that he might not seemnfeiior to our Saviour, pretended that he was hornA a virgin, as Christ was..Q. What is reported concerning the wise men ofhe east, who was directed by the star, and came tovorship Christ?• A. It is reported that these wise men we re littletings, or petty Lords of particular places, such ashose which Joshua slew thirty in one battle. E-diiphanus is of opinion that they cairfc to Jerusalemwo years after Cnrist’s nativity, because Herod siewII the infants of that age: but it is generally believ.d that the star appeared to them two years before.'hiist’s nativity, and that they came to Bethlehembirteen days after his birth, which the church callsHpiplian, or the twelfth day, or the day of the three■lags.Q. H*w came those wise men in the east to un-‘ r>tand tlu? star tliat which then appeared to themetioted the birth of the king of the Jews, or the•aviour of the world ?A. St. Basil supposath they were great astrologersid learned men, who, by magic art, much prac-sed in those conntries, and seeing the power of1®'leir Gods and oracles daily decayed ; and is proba-!o, lie might hear of the prophecy so commonly>oken of in the east, that out of Judea should comeie ruler of all the world ; as likewise- might havenong them the ancient prophecy of old Balaam,8■dial ti.ore siiould arise a star out of Jacob, Ac. fromMoses’ time, being about fifteen hundred years.Q. What was the intent of Herod for killing thechildren of Bethlehem ; and what number was thereslain ?A. Herod having obtained the kingdom by sub¬tility, bearing of this new King, feared he should bedethroned, resolved upon his death ; and after longexpecting the return of the wise men, but in vain,imagined they had mocked him entered into a strangepassion, gave orders for killing all the children oflletlilehem, and the borders thereof, which he thoughtwas about his age, to the number of fourteen thou¬sand, and also sent a messenger of death, thrice, to¬wards John the son of Zachariah, who was now inthe second year of his age ; but his mother’s earlycare of him saved his life, by sending him into desertplaces; yet, amongst this great slaughter, he, who a-lone was aimed at, was the only child that escaped;but as the bobes of Bethlehem died in the place ofChrist, so did John the Baptist’s father die for him.Q. What remarkable sign was left on the murderof Zachariah ?A. Tertullian, who wrote in the defence of the fChristian religion against the heathens, reports, thatthe blood of Zachariah so besmeared the stones ofthe pavement on which be was murdered, that noart or iudustry'could wash the tincture out, as if (}od *would upbraid the irreligion and cruelty of the Jews,with a perpetual character of their guilt set before ;their eyes indelibly, in exacting all the blood of right¬eous persons, from Abel to Zachariah.Q. Did tlx; oracles then cease after the coming of' *our Saviour ?A, Our blessed Lord likewise shewed his omnino-ncy in silencing all tlie heatlien oracles at his b'nh,which the Psgaa auihors took great notice; amiis related, that the eracles of Apollo was often>anl to complain of the Hebrew child that was bomid to cry, “ Wo is me; lament with me, for the>ur of giving answers to them who addressed mytars, is now taken from me.”Q. What became of Herod after his persecuting!' Christ in his infancy, and slaying the children inethlehem £A. He wore out a miserable life, and was in con-uual fear of his own wife and sons, who he after-’ anls cruelly murdered. He fell into grief and des-smticn, by reason of a loathsome and incurable dis-tse, of which he died; having attempted to stabimself, but was prevented by the by-standers.Q, Do yon reina-nber what is said to have be-mie of Archelaus, bis eldest son, who was a terrorJoseph when be returned frorr Egypt ?. A. He being left king by his father Herod, yetiiugustus would not confirm the succession, but in-neatl of king, made him governor only of the fourthKrt of his dominions; and afterwards seizing on all.s estate, he was banished into France, where heied miserably.Q. What became of Herod Ar.tipas, brother to.rcbelaus, who put John Baptist to death, and scoft-1 at our Saviour when he was brought before him?A. Herod with his concubine, before our Savi-uv'-. passion, were both deposed by the Emperor■ejus, upon accusation of Agrippa, his nearest kins-lan, and contumelously banished into France, andItenvards into the desert places of Spain, wlier;tey wandered about in great misery, abandoned of[1 men, and ended their wretched lives.Q. What became of Heredias, her dancing daugfjiter, who required John Baptist's head ?’ A. It, is'reported she being forced to pass overfrozen i tver, the ice, broke, and her bead was cut c:thereby, without hurting the body, to the adtnir ition of all tlie spectators.Q. What became of Herod Agrippa, who accuied Herod the tetrarch or governor of Galilee ?A. He having slain James and imprisoned Petr:was on a ppb'ic as-embly of the princes and nothat Cesarca, struck from Iicaven with a most horribdisease, whereby Ids'whole body putrified, and b.was eaten with worms.Q. What account can you give me, became <Ponti us Pilate, who pronounced sentence againe¬on r Saviour?A. He'falling into disgrace in Judea, went bomto Italy^ and there, being nej-^gcted and discount*hanced by the emperor, be fell into desperation, ankilled himself with his own hands.Q. Who was he that would be worshipped as Go>A. Caligula, who, in Contempt of all divine power, would he worshipped as God, was murdered 1chis own kindred.Q. Who' was the first emperor that persecutethe Christians, and what became of them ?A. Nero was the first that persecuted tliem, amafter he had put to death Peter and Paul, the apos¬tles at Rome, and mufdeied his own mother, hidther, wife, and Seneca his master, was so ahhoreuof all, that the senate condemned liim to be put into the pillory, and to ba whipped to death, whichto avoid, he slew himself, complaining, that he hat!neither friend nor foe to dispatch him The Jibetragical death, had ths Emp?rdrs from Tiberius10 Constantine the Great, who established th*11Christian icli^ion, died peacebly in his L>ed, who,for three hundred years before, few or none escapeddivine voiyeauce, u hose miserable deaths, a nobleChristian, above a thousand years ago, wrote to shewthat they all fell by the power of Jesus, besides Ju¬lian the apostate, and Valens an Avian heretic, weremade instances of divine justice, for their detestableenormities.Q. What befel the Jews for erucifving the Savi-our of the wo; Id ?A. The Jewish historian relates sucli intolerablecalamities and miseries that befel them soon after ourSaviour’s ascension, as can hardly be imagined, firstby Pilate their governor; and then by Proternius,under Caligula, and several others afterwards, whichmade them at length rebel against the Romans,which hastened their utter ruin and extirpation byTitus Vespasian, with the burning of their temple,and destruction of Jerusalem, eleven hundred thou¬sand of them being slain in the siege, twenty-seventhousand taken prisoners, who were either put todeath, carried in triumph, or sold for slaves in a;lparts of the world. ,Q. What time is it said that this universal destruc¬tion of the Jews happened ?A. It is very remarkable, that their utter des ■traction came upon them forty years after our Sa¬viour’s death, ttamely, at the feast of the passover,when the whole nation, out of all countries andtribes were assembled together, and that by ibehands of tiie Roman Csesar, for whom they had re¬jected Christ, saying, we have no king but Ctesar.And as they apprehended Christ on mount Olivet,Titus planted his first battery for their destruction,upon that mount, and as they led forward Christfrom Caiphas to Pilate, so they were hauled up and12<iow:l from John to Simon, and scourged, and tor¬mented before their tribunal seats; again, as Jesusvraa scoffed at, beaten, and villainously treated bythe Soldiers iu Pilate’s Palace, so were the Jewishnoulgtnfcii and governors, abused, beaten, and cruci-bed by the same soldiers. Josephus affirms, that 500ot them suffered this approbrious death Jin one day,insomuch, that the place they died in would hardlycontain so Many crosses, nor could they scarce findcrosses to execute them upon.Q. What became of those sixty thousand that Ti-tys sent as a present to his father Vespasian at Rome.A. They were most all put to death for the Em¬peror’s pleasure, and Josephus, says, he saw, withhis tnvu eyes, fifteen hundred murdered in one day,by xonihats among themselves, and fifteen with wildbeasts, for the Emperors diversion, and others weremade bonfires of in time of triumph, and others con¬demned to the quarries, to dig, and hew stones alltheir lives.Q. Was this of Titus the utter and total ruin ofail the Jews ?A. After Titus Adrian destroyed an innumerablemultitude, and and sent his lieutenant Severns to ex-- tinguish the whole race of them, ‘who ruined ninetyfight towns and villages, and slew 580 Jews in onedey. he razed the walls and ancient buildings of Jer¬usalem, so that one stone was not loft upon another,and changed the name of it unto Eliah, after that ofhis master Elias Athianua, and made a law that itshould be death for any Jewish slave ever to returnthither, or so much as to look from any high pltestoward that country again.Q. As there was many of the Jews converted andwere become Christians in Jerusalem, did these sui¬ter m the destruction of Jerusalem !13A A. There was many that had embraced the doc-ririne of the apostles and believed in Christ, ia andvhout Jerusalem; but Lanctanties relates: That af¬ter they had put to death the two James’s, and ba-, lidied both Peter and Paul and others that Christilvho has always a care over his own appeared to Pe •Ter and Paul at Rome, before their martyrdom and'declared that within three or four years after theirakath, he would take revenge on the Jews, by the_latter destruction of Jerusalem, and that generation ;ihcbich he says, they revealed to the Christians in Ju-udea, whereupon Eusebius saith they departed frcrtn^Jerusalem, not long before the siege begrn, to build! a town called Pilla, beyond Jordan, to which Jesusnliad directed them, it being Under the government ofJAgrippa, who being in amity with the Romans,>.would be safe.Q. Who was the first Emperor that embraced thei'Ciu'istian faith, and proclaimed liberty unto them fA. Constantine the Great was the first that esta¬blished the Christian religion, he died peaceably mit his bad, which for 300 years before few or none e-0 scaped divine justice.C>. What was the first heathen country that em-.<braced the Christian religion.A. Of all other nations in the world, nene earliert! cmbraceil the Christian religion with more readiness1 tlwn the Egyptians, demolishing tlieir idolatrous i ■r mages before any other heathen nation, and givingS example to other countries to do the same, so they!were the first who, after the coming of Christ, re¬turned to the worship of the true God.Q. Do you mind the apology tliat Tertullian wrote1 to the Heathen Emperor, in the defence of Christiant religion, in the time of the fourth persecution.A- In few years Christianity was spread over all1 4liie world that the Roman emperors began to dresthe effect, and their adversaries representing theas traitors and enemies to the government. TVtullian argues with the emperor thus:—“ If we we;jenemies to the state, you might then go and set'new cities and countries to govern, since you wouilhave more adversaries than loyal subjects in yotempire. We have filled your cities, your {townyour provinces, your castles, your fortresses, yotcamps, your tents, your palaces, your senates, yotmarket-places, and your islands, only we have leiyour Idolatrous temples to yourselves, all the plactbeing full of Christians: If we were enemies, whsdangerous rebellion might we have made, though ounumbers be but small, in comparison of the rest cyour people, since we so little value our lives, thawe suffer ourselves to be slain daily, notwithstandingyour unjust persecution of us, we are loyal, parientland obedient, and that the Christian religion oblige*,us rather to be killed than to kill.”Q. What was the encouragement Cyrus the Per¬sian emperor caused to be proclaimed for men wl,<would inlist in his service ?A. His proclamation was, that whosoever wouldbe his soldiers, if he be a footman, said he, I willmake him an horseman, if an horseman, I yrill makehim to ride in a chariot, if he be a farmer I willmake him a gentleman, if he possess a cottage. I willbestow on him a village, if he has a village, I willgive him a city, if he be a Lord of a city, I will makehim governor of a province, and for goltkane silver,I will pom- it out on him, by, weight and measure,and not by tale. This was the pompous edict ofCyrus, to gaki followers for the prosecuting his de¬signs.15Q. Was Christ’s proposal after this manner of Cy¬ras, to such as woul'i serve under his banner?A. No; hut contrariwise, his sermons were, Re¬pent, for the kingdom of oeaven is at hand. lathisworld yon shall have trouble, you shall be as sheepamong wolves, they shall delivej you up to thecouncils, and scourge you in the Synagogues, yeshall he brought before Governors and Kings, andshall be hated of all men for my name’s sake ; andif any man be my disciple let him *leny himself,and take up his cross and follow me. Whosoevershall save hie life for my sake, shall lose it; and fi¬nally, he says, if any man come to me and hastenot his father and mother, wife, and children, hisbrethren and sisters; yea, his own life also, he can¬not be my disciple.Q. His encouragements being sa contrary to thenatural affections-of men, did he get many followers?A. Though Christ’s discouraging doctrines, wereso contrary to man’s natural and sensual appetite,yet gained more hearts in forty years, than ever any♦ march in the world by proposing the greatest pro¬fits and advantage to their subjectsQ. Did Christ leave any writings to his frllewersas other lawgivers did JA. Our Saviour left nothing written by himself,but passed out of thisWorld in innocejicy and silencewithout any ostentations of his own actions, thattire prophecy of Ezekiel rnigfit be fulfiilled, “ Thatthere soould be four ondeceivable witnesses, whichday and night should, vvilhout ceasing, preach, ex¬tol, and magnify their Lord and master.”Q. As there were many deceivers, who pretend¬ed to be the Messiah, how do you know that thisJesus was the true Messiah, or Saviour of’the world?A. We have the full assurance of Jesus being the«16true Messiah, in that all the manifest prophecies,long before prophesied by the holy prophets, both oftliH birth, life, doctrine, actions death, resurrection,and ascension, was punctually fulfilled while JesuSteas upon the earth ; and we are hereby fully assur¬ed, that be was there Saviour of the world; and whichis more evident by what ensued after his ascension,and departure out of this world, by considering hispower, duly, love, care, and providence, his perfectaccomplishment of all his prophecies, and justificationof all his sermons and doctrines upon earth; all whichdoth fully declare and manifest him, to be the trueMessiah and Saviour of the world.Q. What account does Josephus, the Jewish his¬torian give of our l,tossed Saviour ?A. Josephus writes thus :—“ In these times livedJesus, n very wise man, if it be lawful to call him aman, because in truth be did marvellous tilings, andwas master and teacher to them that loved him, andsought after the truth" Ahe Jews and Gentiles fol¬lowed him in great numbers ; and though he was **-ter wards accused by some of the chief ef our religionand crucified, yet he was not forsaken of those thatfollowed him ; and three days after his death be ap¬peared unto them, according as the prophets had pro¬phesied of him- And nowr, even in our days, diedoctrine and the name of Christians continue, and isspread all over the world."Q. What is further related of the death of Christbesides what we find in the holy Scripture ?A. In the 34th year of our blessed Saviour's life,•'be was crucified by the wicked Jews, which pro¬duced prodigious effects, attested as well by hea¬thens as l ‘iiristiaus. At his death there was a greatdarkness in the day time, from tbrea o’clock, (atwhich time our Saviour gave up the ghost,) till six ;3 7SATknd y(• t tJicre wafe no cdipse of the sun, it beingthen lull mocn: so that it was oniy by the power ofMod, who deprived the snn of its light for that spateLf time. "And Dyonysis being that day at Athens,nd knowing by the course of the heavens, that thiseclipse must he unnatural, cried out: — Either theiworld is at an end or the God of nature suffers.”And the wise men of Athens Itoing astonished atthis prodigy, ordered an altar to he built, and dedi¬cated it to the unknown God ; for which St Paul re¬proved them, relating, that Jesus Christ, the Re¬deemer of the world, who had suffered death by thei!Jews, was the unknown God; whereby he eonvert-l!cd many to the Christian faith.Q. What account do the Homans give of Christ ?A. In the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Lento’us, theRoman governor of Judea, tvrote the following let¬ter to the Senate:—“There appeared in these ourdays, a man of great, virtue, called Jesus Christ, whois yet living among us, and of the people acceptedas a prophet; but his oun disciples call him the Sonof God. lie raised) the dead, and cureth all man-mr of diseases; a man tall and comely of stature,with a very reverend countenance, such as the be¬holders may both (err and love : His hair of the col¬our of the chesnut full ripe, and plain down to bisoars,- but from thence downwards more orient ofcolour, waving flown his shoulders. In the mid.-t.of his head goeth a seam, or portion of his hair, af¬ter the manner of the Nazarites; his ^forehead very-plain and smooth; his face without spot or wrinkle,beautified with a comely red; his nose and mouthso formed, that nothing can reprehend; hri beardsomewhat d^ck, agreeable to the hair of his headit was not ot much length, but it was forked Li thomidst; he was of an innocent look, his eyes being18a'ppy, clear, and quick. In reprovfii^, he is severe.In admonishing, courteous and friendly. Pleasanti*> speech, mixed with gravity. It cannot be remem-bered that any have seen him laugh, but many haveobserved him to weep. In proportion of body wellshaped, his hands and arms very delectable to be¬hold. In speaking temperate, modest, and wise Aman for his singukr beauty, excelling the childrenof men.” ,Q. Did not the many miracles performed by theapostles, convince all, that they were done by thepower of God ?A. No; for there wore several that calumniatedthem, as if they were dene by magic art, and thepower of the devil, as Julian and Nero, and SimonMagas and others alleged, who emulating the mira¬cles'of the apostles, studied the vain science, in cr-. der to imitate them therein.Q. Do you know what became of Simon Magus?.A. This Simon Magus, by his subtile cheats, amidiabolical devices, got him into high esteem withNero, so that the Emperor made him his greatestfavourite, and the rest of the people accounted hima God. The Apostle Peter being come to Rome,was grieved to find the people imposed upon by thissorcerer, was resolved to unmask the tricks anddelusions of this vile imposter. A fit occasion pre¬sented itself, as is recorded by Hegisippus. Theredied at this time, saith he, a young gentleman, nearof kin to the Emperor, for the raising of whom tolife; there was a great contest between 1'eter andthe Magicians. The latter challenged the Apostleto perform the same, who, being strong in faith,readily accepted thereof, and when Magus and thedevil wjre leith baffled, not being able to effect thegreat miracle at any rate, Peter, by the power of19v>od restored the person to Jife. The people beingnrraged to see how the sorcerer had imposed uponhem, were ready to have stoned him to death, hadrot the Apostle’s charity and generosity rescued him.Itt this had so liule influence upon him, that a whilerfter he had the presumption or folly, to enter uponmother hold undertaking, which rvas to fly Up intoleaven; but his artificial wings, or his two invisiblelerils, as it is said, failing him, he fell to the groundiivith such broken bones and bruises, as in a few daysput an end to his life.Q. Was there ever an attempt made to rebuild theeraple af Jerusalem ? «A. Yes; Julian the Apostate, Emperor of Home,who was once a Christian, but afterwards returnedo idolatry, resolved to build the temple in despitef Christ; and that this prophecy might not provesrue, “ That one stone shall not he left ubon anoth-r; ’ but when the workmen were laying the found-tion, a dreadful earthquake happened, and fire issu¬ed out of the earth, destroyed alt the men, and d.is-jersed all the stones, so that there was not one stoneat what was separated from another.Q. What happened at their laying the foundation?A. There was a stone which slipi from its place,an 1 discovered the mouth of a cave Vit in a rock,but tlie overseers of the work, not being able to seethe bottom of it, let down a labourer by a rope, andl(eiiig come to the bottom, be was up to the anclesin water, and found the place four square, an l layinghis hands on a little pillar above water, he met witha book wrapped up in a clean linen doth ; and whenthey laid drawn hitn up, the spectatores wefe amaz-|\"d it should Ise so fretsh, lying in such a damp hole,The book it being opened, surprised both the Jewsand the Grecians that were present, they finding20tiie b"'"inning: qf it tiiese word?, writ in capitalletters: THE BEGINNING WAS THEWORD, AND THE WORD WAS WITHGOD, AND THE WORD WAS GOD. Andindeed, sa:th tlie historian, that Scripture did mani¬festly contain all the gospel which the beloved dis¬ciple St John had declared.Q. Is there not an admiiable story of tire greatMogul in the East Indies ?A. Yes ; it happened some years before Sir Tho¬mas Row was embassador from James 'L to hiscourt, that a Juggler of Bengal brought an ape be¬fore the Mogul that did many strange feats. Thehing, to try his skill, plucked a ring off his finger,and gave it to one of his boys to hide, which hepresently discovered. At last this fancy came intotii- head. There are many disputes, says he, con-•corning the true prophet that should come into theworld. We are for Mahomet; the Persians mag-niify Martis-Ally; the Inndoos, or heathens, exto!Aramon, Rain, and others; the Jews are for Moses,and the Christians for Christ. Adding several othersto the number of twelve, whose names he caused tolie writ in twelve scrolls, and put into a bason. Thisdone, the ape put his paw among them, and puhedcut the name of Christ. He then caused the namesto be written a second time, in other scrolls, andill! ape again pulled out, the name of Cl.»,t, as be,tore. Upon this one of the Mogul's favourites said,it was an imposter of the, Christian's, and desired athird trial, with the Eleven names only, receivingthat of Christ in his hand. The ape searching asbe did before, pulled out bis empty paw. Where¬upon the Mogul being told, that it was possible the .tiling he looked for was not there. The ape was21bid to srareb for it, v.Lo bringing out f'.P'P eiercnnames one after another, in seeming indignation,rent them all to pieces, and catching the favouriteby the band, where the name of Christ was Conceal¬ed, opened it, and held it up to the Mogul, withouttearing the same. Upon which the Mogul gave hiskeeper a pension, calling him the Divining Ape.The truth whereof, saitl) Mr Terry, cliaplain to SirThomas Row, was confirmed by several persons ofdifferent religions.Q. Is there not n strange relation of an apparitionthat happened.at Mahomets tomb? ^A. Mr Knowles, in his history of the Turks, af¬firms as a certain truth, that, in 16210, a surprisingvision was seen at Medina, in Arabia, where Ma¬homet lies buried, which continued twenty days, tci-rifving the whol« country. On September the 20thin that year, a great tempest of wind, rain, and thun¬der happened about midnight; but when the sky be¬came clear, the people might plainly read in it, in A-rabian characters, these words:—“ Oh ! why will yebelieve in lies?" And between two and three inthe morning, appeared a woman clothed in white,seeming to be compassed with the sun, having acheerful countenance, with a hook in her hand fi¬ver against her were seven armies c: Turks, Persians,Arabians, and oth.-r Mahometans; iu battle array,ready to fight with her; hut she keeping her station,only opened the hook; at which the armies tied, and-presently all the lamps about Mahomet’s tomb wortout. Tor when the vision vanished, an hour before,sun-rising, a murmuring wind .was heard, to whichthey Imputed the extinguishing of the lamps.fei. Wi»at events happened thereupon ?A. The ancient pilgrims of Mahomet’s race wet ai22much amazed to understand the meaning of it,when one of the priests made this oration: Theworld never had but three true religions, every oneof which had a prophet. First, God ckose the Jews,and did wonders for them in Egypt, and broughtthem thence by their piophet Moses, and prescrib¬ed them a law, wherein lie would have maintainedthem, if they had not been obstinate and rebellious,in tailing to idolatry; whereupon he gave them o-ver and dispersed them upon the face of the earth.Then presently after, God sent a new prophet, whotaught the Christtan religion. This good man. theJews condemned and crucified, for a seducer of thepeople, not being moved with the piety of his life,Lis great miracles, nor his doctrine ; yet after hisdeath a few fishermen so moved the hearts of thepeople, that the monarclis of the world bowed downto his very title, and yielded to the command of hisministers. But in process of time they grew as cor¬rupt as the Jews, the church being disjoined withdie names of Eastern and Western, committing I-dolatry again, by setting up images, with many o-ther idle ceremonies, and corrupting their lives, sothat God was weary of them, and forsook them.Yet God is *lill the governor of the world and hathhimself raised up another prophet and people, evenour Mahomet, giving him our nation; so "that nodoubt we shall be happy for ever, if we can butserve G.od aright: and take warning from the fallof others. Bat, 'alas ! I tremble to speak of it; wehave erred in every point, and wilfully broke ourfirst-institution : So that G%d hath manifested hiswrath by eminent signs and tokens, keeping ourpiophet from us, who prefixed a time to returnwith sdl happiness to his people ; so that there areforty years past by . our account. And doubtless2 3fetrange and fearful vision is a presage of someit troubles and alterations; for either the openin 'die book in the woman’s hand, doth foretell ourrjg off from the first intent of our laws, whereasarmed men do part, as confounded with theIt of their own . conciences; or else it signifies-a other hook wherein we have not yet read, and3 nst which no power shall prevail. So that I fearreligion will be proved corrupt, and our prophetiiiomet an impostor; and then this Christ whomIjf talk of, shall shine like the sun, and set up hisHie everlastingly.”k What is related in ancient histories concern-lithe seven sleepers ?a. They were born in the city of Ephesus, inkitirae when Decius, the heathen Roman Emper-(liersecuted the Christians. These good men be-iof that profession, whose names were Maximii-(i Malchus, Martianus, Dorinus, John, Sera pi on,fi-Constantius, to avoid torture, and the worshiplAdols, fled into a cave in mount Colion, where,|j- long praying, watching, and fasting, ‘being re-fjied with some food they had secretly sent for11 the city, they for heaviness fell asleep. Short-ffter, the emperor suspecting they were in thati;, caused the mouth thereof to be stopped up* i stones, that so they might die with hunger.4 ir which, Theodosius and Rufiinus, two Chris-■ authors, wrote an apcount of their martyrdom,losing them to be dead, and inclosedjt secretly■ng the stones. Decius and that generation be-dead, Theodosius, a Christian Emperor, sus-ifled after many years; at which time a Citboa.ppheSus designing to make a lodge for his shep-Is in that cave, and the workmen beginning' tpthe mouth of it, these seven Christians, that24 -slept sll tliis wliile, awakened, and saluted earliother, verily supposimr they had slept but one ni^htired becran to remember their heaviness the day be¬fore. They then sent Malehus to bny bread in the:city, and pave him .five shillings. Coming to theiETWlh of the cava, he wondered to see the mason®st work • and going into the city, foond all th’ngstaltered, and the crosir set upon the churches. Hejthen went to those that sold bread, and they spokeof Christ: at which he much wondered, that themshould be such a change since yesterday, when nonetdurst speak of the true God ; but he was now professed openly. But the coin was so old, that rlepeople said, sure this young man hath found somaancient treasure. Upon which they canned him be'fore the Bishop and Council, where he declared, thathe and six more hid themselves yesterday in a caro,to escape the fury of Deems, and U:d taken tint,money with them. The Emperor Theodosius beingacquainted therewith, he, with many others, wentand found the other six chearful and hear ty, thelngarments not being worn by age or time. The Eip*'purer hereupon glorified God, embracing and weep-'jnp over them for joy, saying, I receive yon like so’many Lazarus’ out of your graves. They eoturnued;alive some short time after, and then died; and wereburied in great pomp and state by the Emperor, ftappeared they bad slept two hundred and eight years.FINIS