THEHijtory and AdventuresujC0&/,JACK MANSONG,-y , , THE- . ■ ' • S.-irjr;., hi' * *r(, i i) ‘j’ i ' ,H i* r '[Famous Negro Robber■ yM■a'aAND:. TERKOR4 ^? A /, ASTIRLING:printed by william macnie,And Sold Wholesale and Retail.1828.THEHistory and Adventures\tOFJack Mansong.^pHIS daring roaurader, whose name was"*■ Mansong, was a native of Afriaa, was «f atold and martial appearance, possessing a keen andpew' tratlng eye. ’ The steadiness of his mannerand firm intrepidity of Ifis mind commanded theneverence of those who, like him, wielded the set>•vile spade j and the over^aers of the plantationwould tremble* as they smote him for neglect ofduty.This very extraordinary man, rrnaided ly eitheraccomplice or associate, bid defiance for near twoyears, to the military pad civil power of the islandof Jamaica. »Onowauhee, the father of our hero, dwelt atStmbmg, in the inteaior of Africa, adjoining thecountry of the Rfoors. Simbing is scarcely a day'sjourney from Jarra, a large Moorish town situatedat the bottom of some rocky hills. He was in thedeclfke of years ; and his bullocks were ft-equentlystolen by fhe Moorish robbers, who same in largeparties, and plundered the peaceful inhabitants oftheir property.Mansong was now grown to manhood; and he.took upon himself the protection of his father'scattle. One day a large party of the Moors camedown, and dpre before them the finest amongst&« herds. 'Hie people stood at the door* of theirhuts affrighted, but Mansong lifted high his jave¬lin, and stirjfc it to the bnart of.-the leader of theMoorish robbers, who fell dead upen the plain*3The Moers were determined to resent this Out¬rage, as the$r termed it, and sent back the javelin ;the aim was -good, and Mansong fell to the ground,bathed in his blood. The inhabitants set up a loudscream, and the Moors drove oft’ 'Manlong Wasborne to his father's hovel upon the shoulders ofbis countrymen. When they bad conveyed himto his hut, and laid him upon a mat, all the spec¬tators joined in lamenting • his fate;, by screamingand howling in a most piteous manner. Onowaii-hee tore his hair in the bitterness of his grief;and casting himself on the cold body of his son,expired in sight of his bewildered spectators !Mansong was not, however, ■deprived of life.-^.The javelin had pierced his breast, and a grejU ef¬fusion of bloed su*;3eeded. This occasioned a faint¬ing fit, from which be shortly receverfcd. Theastonished people made frantic gestures in' tok»nof their joy, and, being of the Mahometan per¬suasion, exclaimed, " La iHa et ella Mahometrasoxul allabi."—‘‘ There' is but one God, andMahomet is bi« prdphet.**,Our hero was snon perfectly recovered, andresolved to revenge the death of bis father, whomue for;a long time bewvailtd in the bitterness offilial Jrief. He collected bk countrymen, atid ex-‘horted them to rush upon the Moors and repair thelosses they daily sustained ; but the people of Sim-bing could not he prevailed on.The fiery soul of Mansong was- not be defeatedby a cdol refusal. Another opportunity soon pre¬sented itself; he then pictured to them the horrorsand calamities they were daily exposed to, n»dagain exhorted them to revenge. The youthsnow embraced the opportunity ; and Mansong ledthem to join^the king af Kaarta, who was thenwaging war "with the perfidious kivrg of Biuftbarrawho prompted by ambition, had availed hinHti/ ofia most frivolous pretext to declare war against *Daisy, King of Kaarta.By means of some desertions, Daisy's armyivas not so numerous as he expected; and whenencamped at' Kemmoo, the whole number ofeffective men did not exceed 4000 ; but beingwen of spirit and enterprise, could be dependedon, Mansong with his small troop from Simbing,had joined them and their appearance gave joyto Daisy. Mansong had trained his heroes inItie art of war, and bad taught them evolution^wbieh the King was unacquainted with, and h«embraced, with all the ftrVor of bis heart, topowerful an ally. Mansong undertook thediadpline of the rafen of Kaarta, and he wasunanimously chosen Commander in Chief.Daisy now defied the malice of the powerfulKing of £amkarrar placing confidence in thevalour of those few troops that were scarcelyone-fourth the number of his foes, who n^wappeared before the town of Kemmeo. Mansongled his men to the field, but the Kaartans grewfaint, when they saw the numbers they had toappose ; Mansong encouraged thena by example,and the slaughter aommenced 1 The Bambarranstywe mown down like blades of grass : bt» theirniftnbers were great, and as often as a chasmwas effected, it was filled with fresh troops.-—Th.ey visibly gained ground : and at length fueme.n of Kaarta fled with great slaughter.Mansong now, with a corps of reserve rushedupon the foe, and bore down all before his eon-Suering &rm. This encouraged the troops of^arta, who appeared again in the field, aidiagfbose of Simbing, headed by the victoriousM^nsong, who foaght Hke a tiger j his valourinspired his own men, struck terror to tke heart. pf his foes, pad h.e came off .When lie rethrned. .froai the fight, Daisj,witii tears of gratitude, received 1:: « into his•arms, and haiied him as-p/ son. The llahibarransretreated from Kefnmoo, but in three days againappeared before tbs walls with, redoabled force.Mainong knew it wopld’ be ^madnees to resistthem now, and re-rested to John, a town north-ivest of Kinintoo, whither he was followed by.the King of Batnbarra; Mansoog then with hissmall troops, took .refuge in the strong tbwn of-Gedingooma, situated in a hilly country, sur¬rounded with high wajls of stone, and new actedon the defensiv , harrassing the enemy >bjr skir¬mishes, &e. while they laid siege to the town..T(ie King of Kaarta had a ht-autifa! clsuglifer,named Zaldwna i the sonl of Man song, - tltpugli-fired with martial glory, could net resist thosepleasing seBsatfons her presence inspired : duringthe seige of Gedingooma, Mausong etpoloyed tltehours in which his presence was not required inthe discharge oT those important duties whichhis situation as Commander in Chief-'required,•in conversation with his beloved' Ziidtana.. Hercharms had entangled the heart of Mar.song ;-and s!ie tod felt an equal passion for the herowhose valour had saved her f-mily from ruin.The grateful King of Kr.arta with pleasurebeheld their mutual attachment j he had alreadyliailed Mansong as his son ■, lie sanctioned theirloves, and promised to join their hands as-soonas peace should ngdin he restored to l.is country.-But, alas ! such happiness was not Manssng’s let,that ideal felicity was never realized.Mansong now tired of this shilly-shally fight¬ing issued with a large body of men from thetown, gave battle to the Bambarrans; and de¬feated them with great loss. The King now sent-to I.vbsy,- to treat fdr ‘peace and this Worthy6mao, who loved the welfare of his people, immedi¬ately sent Mansong, accompanied by a small de¬tachment of officers, to adjust the preliminaries.The Bambarrans who were as eager as the Kaar-sans to have peace restored, loudly huzzaed as Man-song, with his small troop, entered Sigo, tho townwhere the king waited to receive them. Lubeg,the king of Bambarra, saw with a joyful eye theleader of the Kaartans before him ; and instantlydevised a hellish scheme to ruin his foe, and ter¬minate the military glory of the great and war¬like Mansong.Peace being now agreed upon, joyful festivityreigned throughout Bambarra and the ambassadorswere requested to stay three days at Sigo. Man-• song, although he wished to convey the news soeagerly sought for by his royal master readily ac¬quiesced $ and Lubeg- furnished them for threedays with gumptuous entertainment. On the eveof the. last, they were all invited to the palace,and the liquors of Bambarra were placed upon theboard ; but Mansong excused himself and request¬ed permission to prosecute his journey to Kaarta.Labeg, finding no oth^r alternative, gave thesignal, and a large party rushed in. “ We are be¬trayed,“ exclaimed Mansong drawing his sword,and the Kaartans, following his example, foughtmost furiously but overpowered with numbers,they were obliged to submit to their perfidiousfoes. Mansong, with a gleaming sabre like atiger in the toils, darting on the foremost, clefthim to the ground. The sabres of his adversa¬ries clashed over his head, but he heeded notdeath, and struggled hard to break the chainsthat encircled him. He still fought, and hisblood streamed around, till at length overcome,he fell covered with wounds, and four of hisadversaries lay dead beside him ; the ethers7bound tip Lis wounds, and sent him with therest his party, to the slave merchants.Four hundred slaves were offered by Daisyfor Mansong‘s release, but the offer was rejected ;and on the bank of the Gambia, they were soldto aa English Captain bound for Jamaica.—On their voyage, they experienced all thesehorrors peculiar to confinement in a slave ship.On their afriral, Manseng, whom we shall,in future call Jack, that being the name givenhim on his arrival at Jamaica, with his fellow-'slaves, were disposed of according to lot. Hewas then branded r>n the breast, and he smiledupon the red hot. iron as.it seared him j but he,had vowed revenge, and called upon the Godof bis country to witness bis vows of vengeanceon the European race. He had often receivedthe lash of bis emplovers on bis bare shoulders 5arid as the blood trickled down bis back, so did Itsresolve that for every drop a white inan‘s bloodshould sprinkle the plain iEighteen long tedious months bad passedsince he was dragged fioni his native country,from his friends, and ft cm bis betrothed bride,the beautiful Zaidwna—eighteen long tediousmonths 'had beard his groans ; and Jack dev.sedhow to lash liis persecutors with a rod of iron.At this period the island of Jamaica was greatlyinfested wMi the, professors of Obi, which causedthe most dangerous and fatal consequences amongthe negroes. The obi was a system of witchcraft,religiously believed in by all the negroes. Nowonder then that the heroic soul of Jack became aprey to this weakness. He confidently hoped thatthe possession of an obi would at once render himfeared by his fellow slaves, and secure his ven¬geance cn the Europeans. He therefore soughtthe most en ineiv of ‘he a> t.Atnalkir, the ohian practitioner, dwelt in a: loathsome cave far removed from the inquiringeye of the suspicious whites in the Blue Mouu-Runs} he was old and shrivelled ; a disorder hadcontraoted all his nerves,- and he could scarcelycrawl. His cave was the dwelling- place, orrefuge of robbers ; he encouraged them in theirdepredations ; and gave them obi, that theymight fearless rush where danger stood. Thisobi was supposed to make them invulne'rable tothe attacks of the white men and they placedimplicit belief in its virtues.Jack approached his cave with a reverentialawe ; he fought his .friendship and Amalkirengaged to set all the slaves of every plantationin the island in dreadful commotion. Jack,charmed with the plan, fervently wished itsspeedy execution ; he now no longer groanedunder the heavy burthens of the day, the sweatthat chased his brows, or the cruel blows of histask master, created no pain = he had a balm atheart, which made his daily toil the lighter.Two summers had now elapsed, since Jackarrived at Jamaica ; and the slaves, who wereexcited to rebellion by Amalkir, were firmlyattached to him. They had by stealth, providedthemselves with arms and ammunition, whichthey concealed in the Blue Mountains. Nothingwas now wanting, and they only waited themoment to set the plantations on fire, to plungethe dagger in the hearts of thp Europeans, andlay that fertile island in waste and ruin. Jack,in imagination, already beheld the scene, andsmiled on its horrors.On the tenth of February, 1780, it was re¬solved by this desperate band, headed by a moredesperate and determined leader, to brandisharound the flaming sword of vengeance. Theevening before that fixed for the execution ottheir massaeret the chiefs of the insurrectionmet at the cave of Amalkir; and it was agreedamoBg them, that the signal to he given, Wasthe firing of a gnu.Thus resolved, they separated 5 and now theeventful moment -dawned 1 the heavy bell struckthe midnight hour of twelve, and the expecta¬tion of the negroes, waiting the approachinginsurrection, was at the pitch. At length theawful clock warned them ©f the time Jacklistened to the solemn toll, as from the vapouredsepulchre it struek upon his ear, and whisperedthe bloody design with infinite delight! his heartswelled with joy and hope of victory.At this moment a gun was fired, and a horridyell ensued. The slaves were in arms j theysoon assembled in a line at the foot of the BlueMountains, and Jack led them to the carnage.All the Plantations were soon aroused, andthe alarm bell rung ; but ere the Europeanscould be aroused from their torpidity, CrawfordTowa was in a blaz.~. The smoke ascended involumes, mingled with the devouring names.—Screams of the defenceless, and groans of thedying, assailed their ears.At this juncture a troop of Maroon soldiersarrived ; the rebellious negroes stood their fire,and ran with fury on the guns of their assailants,who turned their backs and fled.It was now five o’clock, and the sun had risen ;the streaks of darkness were ail dispelled, andmorning beheld the havoc which shameless nighthad aided. Jack, now aware that the colonywould proceed against him, called ofl: his troops,and prepared for the fight.The Governor sent 500 choice Maroons in pur¬suit of those rebels. They met and fought. The10negroes, as before, rushed upon their guns, hutthe Maroons firing as they retreated, kept themat bay aod made grejt slaughter. Jack in vainencquraged his men he could not rouse them tothe combat, and they fled in every direction.Next day the Governor published a proclama¬tion, offering a free pardon to such of the insur¬gents as would return to their duty. This hadthe desired effect ; for they all returned exceptJack, who still deteripined to harass the Euro¬peans. He again repaired to the cave of Amalkir,who hung an obi horn about his neck, rare forits supposed virtues.-Dr. Mostly, in his Treatise on Sugar, says—“ I saw the obi of the famous negro robber, ThreeFinger‘d Jack, the terror of Jamaica, in 1780 The Maroon who slow him brought it me. It con¬sisted of a goat's horn, filled with a coriipound ofgrave dirt, ashes, the blood of a black cat, andhuman fat, all. mixed into a kind of paste : a cat'sfoot, a dried road, a pig‘s tail, a slip of virginalparchment of kid-skin, with characters markedwith blood on it, were aho in his obian bag These, with a keen sabre, and two guns, wereall his ohi ; with which, and his courage in de¬scending into the plains, and plundering to supplyhis wants, and his skill in retreating into diffi¬cult fastnesses, among the mountains, command¬ing the only access to them, where none daredto foilow him, he terrified the inhabitants, andset the civil power and the neighbouring militiaof the island at defiance, for near two years.It would be tedious to enumerate all the ex¬ploits of this famous robber, we shall thereforeonly relate a few of the most prominent. Oneday, as Jack was reconnoitring on the top ofEe,banus, he beheld a negro beneath, armed, andbearing provisions. Jajik rushed down the mono*11tains, and attacked him. This negro was a# in*timate|of Jaak's in his days of slavery j but Jackwould now acknowledge no friendship, and com¬manded him to deliver. Quashee, who was afaohold and resolute, refused *, Jack drew his sabre;Quashee pulled a pistol from his girdle, fired, andshot off two of his antagonist's fingers, from whichhe acquired the name of Three Finger'd Jadk.This enraged Jack, and he used his sword in sa¬vage fury.—Quashee received several wounds,and no longer capable of maintaining the contest,he fled ; while Jack took charge of the booty*and retired to his cave.Another time Jack was sorely drove, havinghad no food for some days. There stood a plan¬tation not far from Lebanus, the proprietor ofwhich had given his slaves a holiday, it being hisdaughter's birtb-day, and they were making merry.Jack beheld with gloating eye, from his retreat,the festivity of the assembled, and trusting to theterror of his name, he seized a musket and de¬scended : When he came near, he hid himsdlfbehind the entwined branches of a fig-tree, andtaking a good aim, he shot the presider ef the feast,who instantly dropped dead. The negroes werestr&ck with a general panic : and Jack appearedamong them. Not one xvas bold enough to seizehim ; he held up his three finger'd hand, andthey all fell upon their faces to the ground ; thenfseizing as much booty as he could dispose of,fled to bis cave.The slaves recovering from their fright, ran tothe planter, and informed him of the appearanceof Three Finger'd Jack. He was as much surpris¬ed as themselves, tho' differently instigated ; theirsurprise was mingled with excessive fear ; his wasat the daring impudence of this bold maiauder,12who could assume courage enough to venture be¬fore seven hundred negroes-Jack h^id now continued his ravages for neara year, C-aptaiu Orford a young Englishman ofgood birth, and a most amiable disposition, hadtome over to Jamaica, vvitii a party of soldiers,who were to be garrisoned there, Hosa, the daugh-fer of a Mr.. Chapman, an* eminent planter in_Mar$op’s Town, liad cast a favourable, eye uponOrford, who also affectionately beheld her.Mr. Chapman, who bad much at heart thehappiness of his daughter,, finding tjiat. Otfordr'eafij loved her, consented to. their speedynuptials.. 'Che lovers were transported withthe jsyful presage of future happiness j but theirtoy. was itou damped by an unexpected event.Captain; Orlord, unacquainted with fear, orthe true character fit'- our hero, frequently tra¬versed the» -Blue Mountains, accompanied by his’favcetiue r.egio-hpy Tuc^eyi to, enjoy the breezewidth lightly. JFaacepl the mountains’ tops. OneJay, thoughtless of danger, he proceeded till hocanie near the. mouth., of. Jack's cave. Jack was'seated upon a crag 3 who no sooner saw Orfprdthan he leaped daw n. T.uckey gave a.loud fcreaaj,.and Oiidrd preparing for the co.tnhat^, drew his'sword,'Jack smiled uppn him w.Uh contempt; anillifting up his gun by the muzzle, knocked himdown with the but-erid.Tuekey, wild with terror, fled 3 and Jack seizingthe sense less body of Oxford, slung’ it down tireryountayvs side. Tuckey was proceeding home¬ward, when a g’.oan struck his ear— he listened—another groan succeeded—and the compassionateboy wished to leara from whence they came.Winding down the intricapics of the mouatnin,the body of Captain Or ford ar r ested his step ?El is master was not iftad, but Very much braised,15and his skull fractured. Tuckey raised him fromthe ground, and with much difficulty Lore himto the plantation of Mr. Chapman. Rosa wasin an agony of grief, when she beheld the helplesssituation of Orford. She dressed his wounds, andconstantly attended him in his illness, and he soonrecovered ; for wounds are cured to a miracle inthe West Indies, in any part of the body, exceptthe legs, where they are seldom or never cured.Th is fresh proof of Jack’s valour, spread hisfame over all parts of the island. He was saidto he the head of a gang of negro robbers., whichwas false \ for he had no associates.Captain Orford was now perfectly recovered ;and Mr. Chapman, eager to have the marriage so¬lemnized, fixed the day sc earnestly, looked for bythe young lovers. To dispel the time, he proposeda variety of entertainments, and the nexjt day wasappointed: for a shooting party. The morningwas fine j and the party consisting of Mr. Chap«man, Captain Orford and his boy Tuckey, withseveral planters and their servants proceededalpng .the banks of the river Morant. Near thebay, the game was pretty fair $ Captain Orford,being too eager after the game, he and his boywere unfortunately separated from the rest of thecompany. They sprung a covey of wild fowl} theCaptain fired and brought down his mark : the birdfalling on a rock that o’ertopped the sea, Tuckeyran up the cliff to save the game. Jack, who wasout in search of prey, met and recollected him,and, without further parley, threw him into the _ocyan. Fortunately a boat Was sailing by, and,perceiving the transaction, took him 9.1 board.Jack now observing Captain (Word, he levelledLis gun, and shot him in the back. Orford pre*pared to return the fire, but Jack sprung uponhim, and wounded him with his sabre. OrfordHimmeiliately fell bathed in blood. He being veryweak, Jack took him on his back and conveyedhim to his cave.Mr. Chapman, missing Captain Orford, re¬turned with his party to search for him ■, whenthey came to the bay, they found bis hat and gnulying on the ground. Immediately suspecting thedisaster be spread the alarm, and caused an instantpursuit, but without effect. Jack having eludedMheir servrch, Mr. Chapman, absorbed in grief,returned home. On his arrival, he was met byTuckey ; this for a moment assuaged his grief}hut when the boy related the disaster, his ageny iincreased. He feared to tell his daughter the me- ilancholy circumstance and dreaded the discovery.Rosa perceiving the company -returning, wentwith a joyful heart and smiling countenance, tomeet her father : but seeing bis melancholy air,she was alarmed. She inquired after his health,and the cause of his grief but received no answer ;she then eagerly asked far her beloved Orford jhut the awful silence and sorrow which appearedon every countenance convinced her of the cause jand she immediately fainted away. She was borneto her chamber j where she continued severaldays without taking any refreshment ; and her ,life was despaired of. Fortunately a favourableand sudden change took place, for which neitherher physician ei attendants could assign a cause,and she visibly recovered.Mr. Chapman was blessed by this joyful change }he saw with transport the colour again glow on -the cheek of his beloved daughter ; and he wasresolved that the day of her recovery should bea joyful holiday to the whole plantation. He was•really a good man, and very generally beloved ;the slaves readily obeyed so kind a master ; andhis plantation was esteemed the most thriving iu .15the Islaud. And we feel no hesitation in assertingthat if every planter in Jamaica and the WestIndies were to follow this humane example, itwould not only tend to the increase of their ow^private wealth, but the good of this country atlarge ; and it is indisputably as easy for a masterto gain the love of his slaves as their hatred.One morning Mr. Chapman visited the apart*ment of his daughter, expecting to find her muchrecovered ; but what was his surprise to perceiveher chamber window open a sheet slung out, andone end tied to the bed-post. Her clothes wereon the floor. He was transfixed in amaze ; butperceiving a note lay on the table, he eagerlybrofce the seal, and read it‘s heart rending con*tents. It was as follows :“ Deaji Father,Being no longer able to sup*port an existence without the partner of my soul,my beloved Orford, I hope you will pardon this myfirst act of disobedience. The conflict between filialduty and love has been severe—hut all powerfullove has conquered. I am determined to searchthe mountains and find out this Jack } this terrorof our island—to try if he will give me him onwhom my soul doats. Do not be uneasy on myaccount. If I find him not, I shall return anddie in the arms of the best of fathers. I caa withsafety seek the cave of this robber, as I have beeninformed by those who speak from experience thathe never will molest a female. Adieu, my clearfather. IlcsA Chapman.11This imprudent step of Rosa's had nearly provedfatal to her father. He loved his daughter will!the greatest affection,, and a severe illness wasthe consequence ot her flight.Jack had now been near two years in the Blue16Mountains ; he had become the tei%6r of thewhole island, and rendered himself so obnoxiousby his daily depredations, that Governor Callingfound it necessary to apply to bis Majesty, toissue his royal proclamation, offering a rewardfor apprehending this daring robber. Accord- jingly, two proclamations were issued, dated the12th December, 1780, and 1.5th January, 1781, 1offering a Howard of tv*, o hundred pounds, fsr jkilling Jack, or taking him alive. jThe House of Assembly, of the • Island of jJamaica, also came to the resolution of giving ]their freedom to any slave, for whom they wereto indemnify his owner, and also freedom and |pardpn to any of his accomplices, who should killand bring in the head and three finger'd hand ofJack, which was issued immediately after thefirst proclamation.In consequence of these offers, two resolute andbold negroes, named Quashee and Sam, both ofScots-Uall, Maroon-Town, with a party oftheir townsmen, resolved to go in search of Jack.Quashee, before he set out, was christened, andhis name changed to James Reeder. The ex¬pedition commenced, and while this party areon their pursuit, tve shall return to Rosa, whoLad left her father s house, in search of her lover.The night was extremely dark when she toekthe resolution of descending from her chamber,to go in search of her beloved Orford : Shedressed herself as a . ailor-bov, to secure her fromviolence ; and thus eejoipped she defied the in- iclemency of the weather. The passion whichpreyed on her heart dispelled her fear ; and-unintimidated she proceeded te the woods'.Rosa had repeatedly heard it said, that Jack’scave was near mount Lebanus, somewhere amongthe chain of the Blue Mountains. Thithej she pro-IVteemed. Faint and weary she was often obligedto rest herself beneath the spreading fig-tree, hertender limbs unused to such excessive fatigue sunkbeneath her ; her lips were parched with fever ;but still the lively colour revelled unfaded on herJevely cheek. The hope of recovering her be¬loved Orford, in whose absence life was insup¬portable, and the happy presages of her soulmaking that wislred-for event as certain, sup¬ported her resolution, and made her perseverewith a courage rarely to be mett with in her sex,more especially when the peculiar delicacy of herconstitution is considered.By violent exertion he climbed the craggy steepthat overlooked Old Crawford Town, where stillwas visible the ravages of the fire. The eveningfast approached, and the drepd thunder wae heardto reveberate st a short distance. The dazzlinglightning played around, and the rain fell in tor¬rents down the mountain’s side.. Ilosa saw a nar¬row dismal path, leading to a more dismal cave ;and she enters the gloomy abode, where none butthe robber or wretched in heart could dwell. Thearched vault, formed by the rough hand of Nature,and the obnoxious vapours that assailed her, im¬pressed her mind with dismal fear?. She dreadedto proceed, yet the^ still more gloomy horrorsthat play’d around the cave’s mouth, impelledher to seek a refuge. She accordingly bent hersteps to the interior of the cave, where thechilly dew, hanging on the, projecting crag, droptupon her like ice, and froze her heart. She nowcame to the mouth of another descent, which ledstill deeper into the gloomy abode ; and, to herinfinite surprise, beheld a taper burning beneath !She uttered a faint scream, and fell down therocky descent into the cave, where the glim¬mering taper helped to lessen its gloom.18liosa lay for some linift senseless 5 her foreheadwas very much bruised, and her lovely tressesbang’d shrivelled on her face. At length she re¬covered to the misery ot her situation ; she be¬held with tortured eye, the frightful cave, whichwas hung around with the skeletons of turtles,aligatdrs, and other reptiles, enough to chill thefemale heart ; but Rosa was endowed with morecourage than many of her sex.Three Finger’d Jack, into whose cave she hadthus been precipitated, was out, and prowling ?'orfresh prey. At this critical juncture he returned,and descended into the cave by means of a ladder,while Rosa was viewing with terror the ThreeFinger'd hand depicted on the wall. Jack no soon¬er beheld an European in his cave, than he seizedone of his muskets by the muzzle, and prepared todash his brains out. Rosa fell upon her knees, andexclaimed, “ Mercy J mercy'! I am a woman ! ’—Jack dropt the weapon, and was perplexed ; foralthough he was resolved to shew mercy to wo¬men yet he had also determined to put to deaththat being who should gain a knowledge of hiscave..;—The idea of his beloved Zaldwna recur¬red to his mind, ‘“.Perhaps said he, at thismoment she too may have cause to implore formercy I' and after some del^eration, he resolvedthat Rosa should not die : but self-{Preservationdemanded he shot **! confine her in the bowels ofthat rock her rashness had penetrated.Nigt.it was getting on apace. Jack was weariedwith tjlie fatigues of the day ; and, after eating ofthe plaiutain of which the hungry Rosa partook,he sunk into a sound sleep. Now Rosa conceivedthe idea of making her escape ; she reconnoitredthe cave, and could find no means of extricatingherself from her prison, but ■by the way she enter¬ed. She was therefore hasting up the ladder byJ9which Jack descentled when a dreadful groan as¬sailed her ear ; she stopt—another groan succeed¬ed. Astonished, she turned back, and hastening tothe place from whence it proceeded, she openedthe neor of an inner cell, and beheld her Orford,pale and bloody ! She uttered a loud scream, andfainted. This aroused Jack, who on discoveringthe cause, was about to put hef to death j but hispassion abating, he thrust the helpless Orford far¬ther into the cell, and locked the door j then takingthe ladder he ascended, and hung the key upona projecting part of the rock, newly thirty feetfrom the ground. Rosa was now recovered ;Jack seated her on a log which served him asa chair ; and tying her hands together with a longcord, one end of which he fastened to one partof the rock, and holding the oilier in his hand,he retired to his mat, placing the ladder beneathhim, and sunk again into a sound sleep.Rosa was now lost to all hope : she despaired ofeffecting her escape, or the Release of her suOTeringlover. Distracted at ibe thought, she knew notwhat to do ; the obstacles seemed insurmountable,and she gave up all as lost. The idea of Jack againawaking, and perhaps putting a period to the ex¬istence of her lover, for his attempting to escape,presented itself to Ik^ troubled mind—the agonyof thus losing her lover, and the dreadful situationshe saw him in, almost overcame her resolution.After some time spent in anxious thought, hopeilluminated her heart Near,where she sat wasplaced a table, on which stood a lighted taper;and her only means was to consume the cord thatbound her hands. Joyful at the idea, she drewthe table ‘nearer with her feet, and holding herhands over the' light, burnt the cord. No,v dis-engaged, she tied the end ef the rope to the legof J'ce table ; and, «aii>ng upon her knee?, in^plored Heaven to aid her escape, rjk} that ofher faithful lover.She returned to the oeli wherein Orford \vasconfined ; but her heart sunk within her, whenshe beheld it fastened by a large padlock, the keyof which she despaired ot obtaining. After a longsearch, she cast her eye on it, and using severalineffectual .efforts to get it down, she at lengthhappened to see a long stick, with which, sheunhung the key, and it fell with a great noise.Jack was aroused, but jerking* the cord he heldin his hand, found,- as he supposed, his prisonersafe j and so renewed his slumber.liosa now softly approached the cell where -herlover was confined, and unlocked the door with,the greatest caution. Poor Orford fell senselessinto her arms : his wounds were not great, buthe was faint for want of nourishment. She tookup Jack’s bottle of liquor, which was on the table,aird poured some of It down bis throat, whichgreatly revived him He no sooner discoveredbis preserver thaa he was, about to make bis grate¬ful acknowledgements 5 but Rosa cheeked him.Fresh obstacles again presented themselves toimpede the escape of the lovers. Jack had securedthe ladder, and he lay brn^ptb the mouth ef hiscave ; but this obstacle was soon obviated. Theyplaced the table astride him as cautiously as pos¬sible, on,which they also pat the stool. Rosa as¬cended, and Or ford followed. As life slept fromthe stool, down feli the apparatus.—Jack startedup in a fury, and Jjvtid the ladder—but Orforddrew it-Up, and left him raging like a madman,vowing their immediate destruction.He accordingly, urged by his fury, climbed upthe rock, and had nparly.'reached the top, when21Orforc!, with the hut'end of a gun, which he "hadtaken with him, knocked him sown again.™Stunned with the blow, he lay senseless whilethey effected their escape.Being thus fortunately freed from the horrorsof their situation, they left Jack to his fate, andmade all possible haste to relieve the anxious fearsof Mr. Chapman •, whom on their arrival theyfound confined to his bed. Rosa’s father over*Joyed in again beholding bis beloved daughter,whose courage bad been the means of preservingthe life of her lover, and restoring happiness tohis family, he soon recovered.Soon afterwards the marriage of CaptainOrford and the amiable Rosa were stAemni^edwith great festivity : the Captain sold his com¬mission, and purchased a large plantation neari New Crawford Town, where they live lovingand beloved. We shall now Leave them happyi -in the society of each other, and return to theparty who set out in pursuit of Jack.Reeder and Sam with their party, had, beeni creeping about in the woods for upwards of threei weeks blockading, as it were, the deepest recessesI of the innaccessable parts of the island, where, Jack, far remote from all human society, resided $i but their search was in vain. Reeder and Sam.t therefore, tired of this mode of war, resolvedt to proceed by themselves in search of his retreat,i and take him by storming it, or perish in thei .attempt. The negro boy, Tuckey .being a lad■ of great spirit and a good shot, was, however,dotermiied to accompany them.These three, whom I well knew, says Dr.i Mosely, left the rest of the party ; from whomfj they had not been long separated, before they dis-i icovarecl, by impressions among the \veeds22busfies, that sojpe person most have lately passedthat way. They silently anti cautiously followedtheir impressions, and soon perceived a smoke.—They then prepared for war.Jack after the escape of the two lovers fearfulof being surprised in his cave, seldom visited it,Straying about in different parts of the mountains.This caused him much anxiety ; he grew wearyof his situation, and the forebodings of his soulwhispering mischief to his heart, caused an un¬usual heaviness on his spirits.Reeder and Sam, by following the impressionson the grass, came uplni. Jack before he observedthem. He was roasting plaintains by a lire on theground, at the mouth of a cave. Turning roundbe discovered his enemies ; and snatching hi':guns, he instantly jumped up. His looks werefierce and terrible, and he told them be wouldkill them instantly, if they did not surrender.Reeder undauntedly replied that his obi bad nopower over him now, for he was christened, andbis name was no longer Qhashee. Jack knewReeder, and as if paralysed, he let his two gunsfiall to the ground, and drew his cutlass.Seeder and Sam were at first frightened at thesight of bios, they had to retreat, and consideredthat they were to grapple with the bravest, strong¬est, and most determined man in the iskind. ButJack was also intimidated, for he Lad prophesied,that ivhite obi would get the better of him j andbe Well kn&w, from experience, that the charmwould lose nothing in the bwitls qf Reeder.Without farther parley, therefore Jack, fearfulof the event, with his cutlass in bis Jiand, threwhimself down the precipice at the back of the cave.—Reeder attempted to shoot him, but his gun**»«sed fire. Sam fired, and shot Jack in the !t ‘er, as he fell.23Reeder, encouraged by the flight of Jack, andfearless of danger, with a cutlass in his hand, plun¬ged headlong down, after him. The descent wasftearly thirty yards and' almost perpendicular Both of them preserved their weapons in the fall.Here was the spot on which two of the stoniesthearts that perhaps were ever hooped withinribs, began their bloody struggale. Having recov¬ered their feet, the dreadful combat began, withail the savage fierceness of two enraged lions.Tuckey, the little boy who had been orderedt» keep out of harm‘s-way now reached the top•f the precipice, and during the fight shot Jackin the belly.lx Sam,’who at a distance beheld' the scene, coolydefended the field of rction. When he arrivedat the foot Jack and Reeder had closed and turn-Wed down another precipice, in which fall theyboth lo*t their weapons.Sam, now perceiving their situation descendedafter them as quick as possible, and also lost hiscutlass-among the bushes in getting down.He came np just time enough to save Reeder $fat though they were , without weapons, and theirwpunds were deep and desperate, they were notidle. Jack had taught his antagonist by thethroat with his giant's grasp.The combatants now presented a most horridspectacle—Reeder had his right hand almost cutoffhand Jack whose wounds were also deep anddesperate, streamed with blaod from bis shoulderand belly. In short, both Combatants were coveredwith blood and gashes.In this state of the battle, Tuckey, the little boywho was armed with a .pistol and cutlass, just cameup j he snapped his pistol at Jack, but it missedIfirf. Sam, however, was umpire, and dt'cided the24fate of the day. He struck Jack on the Leadwith a piece of rock; stunned with the blow, heJet go his held, and fell senseless.The three then rushed upon Jack ; with thecutlass, they cut off his head, and three finger’dhand,* and carried them in triumph to MarantBay. IV?re they put their trophies in a pail ofrum, and followed by a vast concourse of negroes,now no longer afraid of Jack's obi, blowing theirshell and horns, and filing their guns in their rudemanner, they proceeded to Kingston and Spanish.Town, and claimed the rewards promised by theKing’s proclamation, and House of Assembly.The victorious Reeder was soon cured of hiswounds, and he and Sam haring procured theirfreedom, and the promised reward, live happy;,and annually celebrate the joyful event.Thus fell Three Finger’d Jack, a man perhapsof as genuine courage as ever existed. Had bismilitary fame not been cruelly stopped by thetreachery of the king of Bambarra, who consignedhim to the horrors of slavery, he, in all humanprobability, would have Jived happy, and beenan ornament to his country. Those bright pros¬pects Were all blackened by the wsrs* of tra/fics,—the African Slave Trade !—However in¬terested individuals may soften the measure, byspecious and plausible arguments, every- realChristian, or gpod moral man must coudemn,the practice!* His head and three finger'd hand are 'nouspreserved in spirits for the satisfaction of’ the,eurious.. L ■ -./Ja, a Aj-.r- t, '4W/ J i *FINIS.