CAUSES AND CUREOFSpiritual Darkness.HEINSA Letter from an old Minist or to another in- a depressed state of mind.Alto,the life ofME. JOHN JBtUNYAM,Author ofThe Pilgrim's Progress, fyc. %c.KIOXARtSOCK. :-Printed hy If, Cranford, Bookseller,<faoti*LUBg^v OF SCOTLAND r\THECAUSES AND CUREOFSPIRITUAL DARKNESS.DEAR BROTHER,IDO pity you with all my heart, and that notbarely from a principle of common benevo¬lence, or even Christian charity, but from realexperience of perhaps the like, or worse, condi¬tion myself.Your's I suppose to be a nervous disorder, at¬tended with spiritual darkness and distress; if so,by attending to my story, and the reflections aris¬ing from it, you may possibly find some conso¬lation.About eighteen years ago, I fell into a deep’and dreadful oppression of spirits, the very re-1membrjyice of which is ready to make me shud-fder, even to this day. There was some greatdisorder of body, but my mind was still moredisordered, and felt the weight of all. Every *thing of a distressing and terrifying nature, as trmy spiritual concerns especially, seemed to bepreient with me. I thought myself the most mi*iserable being this side heli. I often wonderejl tosee people afflict themselves about the commoni calamities of life : they appeared mere trifles, in-1 firmities that might be easily borne; but mine wasa ‘wounded spirit, torn with the clearest appre¬hensions of the malignancy of sin, and the dis¬pleasure of an Almighty God. I not only couldnot see any interest I had in his pardoning mer-; cy, but feared I was given up by him to the: tyranny of my corruptions, so that I should cer¬tainly fall into some gross and scandalous sin, asa just judgment upon mo, and so be left to per¬ish with the most aggravated guilt, a monumentof the Divine resentment against false pretendersto,religion. I often wished to die, even thoughI could but dread the consequence. I sought theLord by prayer and other means of grace, dayland night, but he still hid his face from me ; nowand then a glimpse of hope would break in uponiiime, but it was of short continuance. The Bibleriseemed as a sealed book in which I could meetiiwith no comfort, though often much to aggra¬vate my distress and increase my terrors. I en-|deavoured to examine myself, and search for theevidences of renewing grace in my heart, but alltin vain; the more I searched the more dark, andonfounded, and distressed I grew. I continuedc preach indeed to others, but very often withffs heart-sinking conclusion, that ‘ I myself wascast-away.’ Sometime s, even in the midst oily work, the melancholy darkness would rushi upon my soul, so that l was ready to sinkj-ewn in the pulpit. Though for the most partij was tolerable during the exercise, yet I gener¬ally went to the pu’pit and returnrd from it with4treacling he?.’It and knees. Many passages in .the book'of Job, and the Psalms, particularly tliei8Sth Psalm, I felt, as I read them, with pecali-ilar sensations. Thus I continued for more thar.idtwelve months, enjoying scarcely two comfort-j:able days together. '9At length I came to this resolution, viz. tcigive up the point of proving myself a child o iGod already, (which was what I had been labouring at all along) as a necessary medium omy comfort, and grant that I was a vile, sinfuland every way unworthy creature, admit thiwhole charge brought against me, and seek myjremedy in Christ. For I argued, there was/orgtveness "with God for the chief of sinners. ThifBlood 'of Christ could cleanfe from all amjtherefore from mine. He came to call not th ;rightcousy but sinners to repentance; sinnerwithout distinction of degrees, s'nners as suchand because they were such. It was said, thaii4 whosoever would, might come and take of thwaters of life freely,’ and ‘ that he would in nwise cast them out.’ Hence I was led to observethat if I could not go to him as a saint> I migfgo to him as a sinner. I resolved, therefore, tlay aside my inquiries after the evidence of ratinterest in him as one of his renewed people, aalook entirely to him from whom all renewinggrace and the evidences of it must come, lotito him as a guilty, polluted, perishing cream:that had no hope, no succour, but in the pmmercv of God through him. And thus I was kt0 Such views of the ail-sufficiency of the greRedeemer, and his willingness to save even tlvox*' of sinners, such as I could conclude m5self to be, as silenced all my doubts, scatteredmy fears, and gave the most deligliilul peace andjoy to my conscience. 1 row learnt indeed whatI thought I had (and perhaps really had) learntbefore, viz. ‘ To live by Faith alone upon tne Senof God; to make his sacrifice and righteousnessmy constant refuge, and draw ail my consola¬tions thence.* I found 1 had unawares laid toogreat a stress upon evidence^ of grace, and lookedtoo much to them for my cohifort, and too little♦o Christ. I plainly saw that with ail the bright¬est evidences of grace about me, I was still asinner, and must apply to my Saviour as such,in order to give life and vigour to my consola-i tions and hopes: and that the spiritual life in memust be perpetually supplied from the same foun-; tain whence I had derived what f had already ex-pe'ienced. I found that the seasons of darknessi were not the proper seasons for seeking after evi¬dences ; but that the immediate and leading dutywas, trusting in the Name of the Lord. I sawmore clearly than ever, that in the great businessof acceptance with God, I could bring no righ»: teousness of my own that would avail; but that,as a creature utterly undone myself, I must lookto him ‘ who takes away the sin of the world.’—j.That God never rejected any, that seriously an,4in earnest applied to him, because they weremore guilty and unworthy titan others, or ac-i cepted bthcre because ihey were less so *, and, ina word, that as the best must, so the worst may,j; c()me to him, through a penitent faith in the pre-i cions blood and righteousness of his Son, withi equal assurance of a gracious welcome. Andfrom that time to this (I bless God for his great6mercy) I have never had any long-continueddoubt of my interest in his saving love. When¬ever darkness and distress assault me, I am en¬abled to look to him who is the light and conso¬lation of Israel; and remember that his grace isas free to me as another, and that he is as willingas ‘ able to save to the uttermost, all that comeunto God by him.'I send you this account, my dear brother, thuscircumstantially, to let you see, if possble, thatthere has no uncommon temptation overtakenyou. Remember, though you walk in darknessand have no light, yet there i? a gracious provi-' sion ma le for al! such in tne Gospel, in the verynature and constitution of it in general, as wellas in its precious promises and declarations inparticular; so that, if we take this Gospel justas it lies in our Bibles, we shall see that there ishot the least room for even the worst of sinnersto despair. For even to the impenitent and un¬believing, the Gospel opens n remote hope, as itis the means oi Lading them to repentance andproducing faith : and to the awakened and sen¬sible sinner, an immediate hope, Us the means ofthat holiness and comfort he seeks- The gracethat saves must be entirely, absolutely, free tothem ; or else in the just and full conviction oftheir sin and guilt, it would be impossible any ofthem could have hope.You want to see more of the image of God inyou, more of the saint and less of the sinner ; thedesire is right and good; but remember, wereyou the purest saint on earth, that purity, thoughan occasion, wosld not be the primary groundand reason of your comfort. We are begotten7again to a lively hope, not by even our evangeli¬cal holiness, ‘ but by the resurrection of Christfrom the dead,’ and the facts, doctrines, andpromises connected with it, credited and trustedas they lie in the Bible. The greatest saint mustI depend upon the same righteousness and strengthi in Christ as the greatest sinner, and the latter isi as welcome to that dependance as the former ; if,having the comfort of that dependance, he makesit his serious care to ‘ purify himself from all fil-: th’.ness of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness inthe fear of God.’ Though we are never so poor,i and miserable, and blind, and naked, yet we mayapply to Christ, even in this miserable condition,ii with assurance of success, as appears frc.n hisi; own word, if we apply with a view to our de-i, liverance from the power as well as the guilt of<: our sins.All this you very well know, and thereforei! need none of my instructions ; but I meant notil to instruct, but to stir up your mind by way ofI' remembrance.ii I scarcely ever knew a disconsolate Christian,! however notionaily clear in the doctiine of the! (3ospel, and the way of a sinner’s acceptancei with God, but that as to aci and the real exer-; cisc of his mind, was some how entangled in his: own righteousnessand built his comforts and; hopes so much upon his evidences of renewing■ j grace, as in some culpable degree to overlook the'‘only Name given under heaven’ for our conso-■ lation, and so far to miss his aim and disappointhis desires and expect uions. Terrified with the: charge of guilt, his first attempt usually is, to: prove himself not guilty, or at least to extenuate■Iit, and prove it consistent with a state of grace:this diverts his attention from the proper objectin that case, and to which he should first look,viz. * the great atonement and everlasting righte- iousness of Jesusfor under all convictions ofsin, the proper question with respect to our com¬fort is, not how guilty we are, but how we mayfind forgiveness ? And the answer is, through apenitent faith in that atonement and righteous¬ness ; for be the guilt less or more, this only canpurge the conscience from it, and give us thepeace of God ; and for this it is all-sufficient:or take it thus,We are sinners—we hear of a Saviour, andwhat he has done, and suffered, and is doing forour salvation—the questions are—1. Are these things so? Are the facts anddoctrines, declarations and promises, of the Gos¬pel true ? If we have any doubt here, our busi¬ness is with the evidences of the Divinity of theGospel.2. Are those declarations and promises, &c.free and open to all without exception, who seetheir need of the grace therein implied? If wehave any doubt here, the due consideration of thenature and design of the Gospel—the infiniteworth of the atonement—the style and languageof the invitations and promises, See. will affordabundant means of satisfaction. Nothing in theworld can be more true and certain, than, ‘ thatGod so loved the world, as to send his only be¬gotten Son into it j’ and it is as true, that ‘ who¬soever believeth on him, shall not perish, buthave everlasting life.’ Which believing is neither fmore nor dess, as to what is essential to the point, i9than a hearty and sincere crediting of the truthof this declaration \ and a humble, penitent reli¬ance upon the promise connected with it, as theword of the eternal God, from a sense of the needof his grace, and with a view to the obtaining it.It is, as our Lord himself represents it in thecontext, just the same thing, as the stung Israel¬ites looking to the brazen serpent for n cure.—Though wounded ever so deep'v, if thev c^st aneye upon this medium, with a faith in the divineappointment and promises, they were as assured¬ly healed, as if they had received only the slight¬est injury •, and that this was thcv»Cfise of all whoso looked, without execution. Under convic¬tions of our lost condition, and desire after de¬liverance, the first thing is believing, or lookingby faith to Jesus, and trusting in his atonement,righteousness, and power. This is the founda¬tion ox all prayer, and every approach to God.For he that cometh unto God must believe thathe is, and that he is a rewarder of all that dili¬gently seek him. Ho that would find light, andlife, and peace with God, must first believe thereare such blessings, and the way in which theyi are to be obtained, viz. through Jesus Christ.—Without some sort of credit to the divine testi-j mony, some trust in the divine promises, it wouldbe impossible to have any real hope towards God,and without hope there can be nothing done inreligion. Instead, therefore, of these inquiriesand reasonings about matters not immediatelypertaining to the exercise of faith, our businessis to apply ourselves directly to that exercise, as¬suring ourselves of the tru^h of the promises, andrelying upon them in humble confidence that theyshall be made good to us.10Put here, perhaps, the distressed Christian ,may be ready to sav, ‘ Faith is the gift of God,and I do not find he has given me that gift; Icannot belWe, though I much desire it.' Tosuch a one I wouM answer. F iith is undoubtedlythe gift ot God, hut the power to believe andtrust, does net lie where such as you generallythink it does, viz. in a certain active energy inthe mind ; but it lies in the fulness and clearnessof the evidence of the truth, and a capacity toreceive it, tor all faith begins in persuasion, andpersuasion is ti e result-cf evidence Hence weread of believers being persuaded cf the premises,and that faith is t! e evidence (conviction or evince-ment) cf things not seen.We cannot doubt the testimony of God whenonce we s^e convinced it is his testimony ; nor,(if sensible cf our misery; and really desirous ofdeliverance,) can we avoid putting a confidencein thosr promises of deliverance that we believeGod has made us. These acts of the mind willfollow in the circumstances supposed, unless wepurposely and wilfully withhold tfvm against con¬viction, which no serious mind can do. Our in¬ability to believe, therefore, lies rather in the•want of light than of power, i. e. the want ofevidence as to the truth, reality, and importanceof the cbj ct of our faith, or the want cf a capa¬city to perceive ir. Both these are the gifts ofGod. fhe means of both he 1ms put into ourhands, with assurances of blessing the use ofthem. * Faith cometb by hearing, and hearingby the word of God. Upon that word the marksof Divinity and truth are imprinted with the mostglorious and affectiug evidence. The gloriousSpirit that dictated it still breathes in it. It isspirit and life, the power of God to salvation. Itenlightens the soul, it convinces of sin and ofrighteousness, and thus tends to produce in us ajust sense of our misery, and the suitableness, ex¬cellency, and all sufti dency of Christ as a Savi¬our. A serious and attentive regard to this word,accompanied with prayer, and that degree of faithsuch a conduct implies as already given, mustbe the sure way of increasing faith, and fillingthe mind with true consolation. ‘ Hear, and yoursouls shall live.But there is, perhaps, still a difficulty that thehumble Christian cannot easily get over.— Hedoubts his right to the promises of grace ; buthere also he generally mistakes. He lays it uponsome unattainable qualification in himself, andwhich he thinks he must attain before he can em¬brace the promise in question, and which he seeksnot by faith in Christ, but by some work or worksof the law, some duties, which, not being donein faith, can avail nothing; and thus, as theprophet expresses it, he spends his ‘ money forthat which is not bread, and labour for that whichsatisfieth not.*The primary ground of all right that sinfulcreatures can have in the Gospel mercy, is, thefree and express grant of it from God himself.The primary medium of putting us in possessioni of that right, is the atonement and righteousness' of Christ; the next is that of believing the testi-: mony of God concerning these things, and trust-i ing in it. This is the scriptural representation.' The qualifications which the perplexed and dis-: consolatc Christian seeks with to much anxiety;12th^refcre, are rather the efivcts arH consequenceof this grant, atonement, and faith, and not pre¬liminaries to helitving, r.r preparatories to faith.It is true, there must, in the nature of things,be seme eense cf the evil of sin and desire of de¬liverance, without which fit fie regard will bepaid to the gospel mercy and wa^ ■. but these,his very uneasiness and distress shew that he hasahready ; and by the very terms of the promise,he that is ‘weary and heavy-laden may trust inChrist tor rest.’ If he thirst for them, he maycome ‘ and take of the water of Jife freely.’ And,indeed, what qualifications can a guilty, polluted,impotent creature bring to his Saviour, be*enda sight and feeling of Jus misery nod a desire ofdeliverance ? Holiness in principle, and th«fruits of it in practice, are necessary to the finalenjo. rr.ent of eternal life t but not mceisaiy toour believing' the Gospel promises ; because that,belief itself is necessary to our holiness ; for theheart is saM to be purified by faith. ! he pro¬per answer to every on<t that says, ‘ what shall Ido to be saved i” is that of the apostle, ‘ Believeon the Lord Jesus Christ. Believe what God hastestified concerning his Son, as the great propi¬tiation for sin, and you will find that the expe¬rience of the efficacy of his blood, to purge the_conscience from dead works, and his power to saveus from our spifit-ual blindness and depravity, andevery evil, w/i follow. It is for want of enter¬ing thoroughly into this distinction, and mistak¬ing tl)e nature of faith, and the order and placeappointed tor m, in the great affair of salvation,that so many sincere Christians live so greatstrangers to the solid and lasting consolations ofChrist.13Forgive me, my dear friend and brother, thatI hav rnn nn this tiresome length : I do not, how¬ever mean to teach you, of whom I am betterqualified 10 learn, but to remind you of suchthiit’S as have a tendency to disperse the gloomthat may hangover your m<nd. However, ofgood courage and wait on the Lord, and yovrstrength, in his due time, shall be renewed.* Heis pleased with those who hope in his mercy :—•hope therefore in him, ami you Kill yet praise hisdelivering grace.THE LIFEOFMr. JOHN BUNTJN—coc [■jy/j-R. JOHN BUNT AN, the celebrated an-I T'-l. thor of the I'ilgrim’s Progress, and manyother useful works, was born at Elstow, nearBedford, in the year 1G2S.H - parents were very poor, but gave him thebest education in their power. Such, however,was his extreme depravity, that he addicted him¬self, even in childhood, to the basest of practise?,peiticularly to cursing and swearing, in which heexceeded the worst of his v/icked companions,■ 'atul arrived at such a sad pre-eminence in sin,that he becarae the ring-leader of the profane.Yet, amidst all these enormities, God left nothimself without a witness in his bosom He hadmany severe checks ot conscience, and terrifyingthoughts of hell. After days spent in sin, hisdreams were sometimes peculiarly frightful. Thefear* of death and judgment intruded into hisgayest hours of vanity and pleasure The Lordwas also pleased to mingle mercies with his judg¬ments, by granting him several remarkable de¬liverances from death. Once he fell into theriver Ouse ; at another time he fell into an armof the sea, and narrowly escaped being drowned.When he was 17 years of age, he became a sol¬dier*, and nr he siege of Leicester, being drawnout to stand sentinel, another desired to take hisplace : he consented, and thereby escaped beingshot through the head wiih a musket-ball, whichtook off his comrade..Rut neither mercies nor judgments made anydurable impression on his hardened heart. Hewas not only insensible of the evil and danger ofsin, but an enemy to every thing serious. Thethought of religion, or the very appearance of itin others, was an intolerable burden to him.The first step towards his reformation was hismarriage with a woman, whose parents were ac¬counted religious. Though extremely poor, shebad two books left her by her father, 1 he Prac¬tice of Piety, and fhe Plain Man’s Path-way toHeaven In these they read together occasion¬ally ; and though not convinced of his lost con¬dition, upon reading these, and hearing a Ser¬mon ajjainst Sabbath-breaking, he formed some15liWtres of reformat'on, and of performing a fewireligk-us duties, u t ich he then thought would bo:enough to carry him to heat en. These convictionsiwere not sufficient to keep him from his belovedfFports, even in the afternoon of that Sabbath oniwhich he had received them ; when, being en-Igaged in a ^eme, a sentence was impressed on hisitnind so forcibly, that he thought it like a voiceifrom heaven, Wilt thou leave thy sins and goito heaven, or have thy sins and go to hell i” Thisexcited a dreadrul consternation in his mind,iwhich was instantly followed with a eUggestion,Ithat he was an enormous, unparalleled sinner—•fth t it was now too late to seek after heaven—and that his transgressions were beyond the reachof mercy. Despair re ched his mind, and heiformccl this desperate conclusion—that he mustthe miserable if he Uft his sins, and miserable ifihe continued in his sins 5 and therefore he deter-imined to take his fill of them, as the only plea¬sure he was ever likely to have. It may be justlyifeared that multitudes perish by such temptations;as these. Their language is, < There is no hope,ibut we will walk nfmr our own devices, and wewill every one do the imagination of his eviliheatt.”Contriving how to gratify himself with sin, yet.deriving no satisfaction from it, he continued a-bout a month longer : when it pleaded God to;give him a severe check by means of a woman,(who, though a notorious sinner herself, was soIshocked at the oaths he uttered, that she toldIhim, “ He was the ugl cst fellow for swearing•haf she ever heard in her life and that he wa*(enough to spoil all the youth in the to wn, if they16ca vn‘ info hi? company.” By this reproof, fromsuch a person, he was entirely confounded; andfrom that moment, he refrained, in general, fromswearing, though before, he scarcely ever spokea sentence without an oathAbout this time he had several remarkabledreams, in which he thought that the earth quak- jed and opened her mouth to receive him—thatthe end of tV wor'd, and the dav of judgment,were arrived. Once he dreamed that he was justdropping into the flames among the damned, and-that a per>on in white shining raiment suddenlyplucked him as a brand out of the fire Thesedreams made impressions upon his mind never tobe forgotten, and perhaps inclined him manyyears after to publish the masttr-niec’ of ail hisworks. The Pit.grim’s Progress* under the si¬militude of a dream.Soon after, he fell into the company of a poorman, who made a profession of religion, whosediscourse of religion and of the Scriptures:, so af¬fected him, that he applied himself to reading theBible, especially the historical parts of it; but hewas yet ignorant of the corruption of human na¬ture, and of the need and worth of Jesus Christas a Saviour.However, a reformation of manners took place,which was so remarkable, that his neighbourswere greatly surprized at it, and often compli¬mented him upon it. By these commendationshe was greatly puffed up with pride, and beganto think himself a very good Christian; and, tO’use his own words, *■ That no man in Englandcould please God better than he.” But all thiswas only topping off the branches of sin, while17Ithe root of tr\ unrepererated nature *till remiin-ed. . With much difficulty, and by slow degrees,i he refrained from his accustomed diversions ofdancing and ringing i from the latter, by theapprehension that one cf the bells, or even thesteeple, might fall, and crush him to death Buthitherto he remained ignorant of Christ, and was“ going about to establish his own i ightcousness.”He was yet of that generation “ who are pure in: their own eyes, ai.d yet not washed from theirfilthiness.”| Not long after, the providence of God so or-!dered it, that he went to work at Bedford, andhappening to hear some women, who were sit-iting at a door, talk about the things of Get!, his:curiosity induced him to listen to them; but HeI soon found th- •- couvereation above i n reach.They were jpeAirg cf the new birth, and thework of God on their hearts—how they wereconvinced of their miserable state by nature—;■ how God had visited their souls with his love in1!Christ Jesus—with what promises they had beenij refreshed, comforted, and supported, under af-.tfliction and the temptations of the enemy. 1 heyli also talked of the wretchedness of their own‘hearts, and of their unbelief—of rerounciojj theirI own works and r-ighteousness, as insufficient tojustify them before God. All this appeared to bespoken in such spiritual language, in such a gra¬cious manner, and with such an air of Christianjoy and cheerfulness, that 1 * seemed like one whohad found a new world. This conversation wasof creat service to him. lie now saw that hiscase was no: so good as^hc had fondly imagined-—that among ail his thoughts of religion, that*'18grand essential of it, the new birth, had neverentered his mind—that he had never derivedcomfort from the promises of God—that he hadnever known the plague of his own heart, havingnever taken notice of his secret thoughts—andthat he was entirely unacquainted with Satan’stemptations, and the way to resist them. Hetherefore frequented the company of those per¬sons, to obtain information ; his mind was con¬stantly intent upon gaining spiritual knowledge,and his whole soul was so fixed on eternal things,that it was difficult to draw his mind from heavento earth. He now began to read his Bible with-new eyes: it became inexpressibly sweet andpleasant to him, because it held forth a Saviourwhom he now felt the want of P.eading, me¬ditation, and prayer to understand the scriptures,were his delightful employment. Now the ene¬my of souls assaulted him with his temptations.One of the principal was, Whether he was elect¬ed or not ? But it pleased God to relieve hin»,by impressing his mind with such words as these,Look at the generations of old, and see, didever any trust in God and were confounded ?”This gave him much encouragement, as if it hadbeen said, “ Begin at Genesis, and read to theend of the Revelations, and try if you can findany that ever trusted in God and were confound¬ed, and if none that trusted in God ever mis¬carried, then your duty is to trust in God, andnot concern yourself about election, which is asecret thing.”Another temptation that violently assaultedhim, was, “ How if the day of grace should bepast and gone?” But after many days spent ifc19ibitterness of spirit, he was relieved by that blea-ised word, “ Compel them to come in, that myhouse may be filled and “ Yet there is room."Many more were his temptations, of whichIche reader may find a large account in a Tract(written by himself, entitled, “ Grace aboundingito the Chief of Sinners.” But the Lord, who(knows how to deliver the godly out of tempta¬tion, was pleased to deliver him cut of all hiatpiritual distresses, filling his soul with joyand(peace in believing. To this happy event, under(the blessing of the Holy Spirit, the conversation(he had with expetienced Christians, and the va¬luable labours of Mr. Gilford, then minister ofIthe Gospel at Bedford, were chiefly conducive.(When 27 years of age, Mr. Banyan joined a pi¬lous congregation of Christians at Bedford. His(natural abilities, eminent grace, and remarkableitemptarions. soon pointed him out as a proper(person for th ministry. Curiosity naturally ex¬cited multitudes to attend his preaching, ana heisoon found that his labours were not in vain inIthe Lord. Such were his diffidence and mo-idestv, that at first he thought it incredible, that'God should speak to the hearts of sinners by hisimeans. But he was encouraged by many sealsiof his ministry. His views of the work, and his(method in it, deserve notice and imitation. The.Lord gave him much compassion for perishingsinners. He studied with great diligence to findout such words as might awaken the conscience ;and he laboured much to hold forth Christ in allhis offices, and relations, and to condemn all(those false props on which w'oridly men lean and•perish, This fidelity excited many enemies, and20the tivrie in which he lived being a time of per¬secution for cpnsciei ce, he was thrown into pri¬son, and there continued, in the whole, for 12years.Daring this tedious imprisonment he was en¬abled to possess his mind in much patience. TheLord Was very gracious to him. He says him¬self that he never had such an insight into theScriptures before. He had much sweet com¬munion with God, clear views of the forgivenessof sins, and the foretastes of his eternal bliss.—The thoughts of his afflicted family would some¬times press upon his mind, especially the case ofone of his four children, who was blind. Mr.Buns an was a man of strong affections; a ten¬der husband, and a very indulgent parent. Buthe was supported under this affliction by thesetwo Scriptures, “ Leave thy fatnariess children,I will preserve them alive v and let thy widowstrust in me.”—Tne Lord said, “ Verily it shallbe well with thy remnant; veriH' I will causethe enemy to entreat thee well in the time ofevil.” *He was not idle during his long and severeconfinement, but was a diligent student of hisBible, which, with the Book of Martyrs, com¬posed his whole libiary. Kis own hands also mi¬nistered to the necessity of his indigent family ;but he was stiii more usefully employed, preach¬ing to all who could gel access to the jail, and witha spirit and power that surprised his hearers.It was here also that he composed several use¬ful treatises, especially The Pilgrim’s Pro¬gress; a book which has done more good, per¬haps, than uny other, except the Bible; and bynwriting which, ha has probably been more ex¬tensively useful than if he had enjoyed the unre¬strained exercise of his pubiie ministry.At length the Lord, who has all hearts in hisI hands, disposed Dr. Barlow, then Bishop cf Lin-| coin, and others, to pity ills undeserved sutTer-ings, and to interest themselves in procuring hisenlargement — a circumstance which certainlydoes them honour.t His active Spirit soon improved the libeity af¬forded him. He visited the people of God inseveral places, especially the afflicted, Tempted,persecuted, to whom he was now well qualifiedto speak a word in season. He also took thisopportunity of paying his grateful acknowledg¬ments to his friends, whose kind assistance hehad experienced in prison; and, as occasion of¬fered, he preached the Gospel With great bold-J ness and acceptance, particularly to the congre-i gation at Bedford, of w Inch he was now chosenminister. i. „ .Amidst all his popularity and success, he wasi kept humble, and was seldom or never known to■ speak of himcelf. His whole behaviour was ex¬emplary, so that malice herself is defied to find,even on the narrowest inepeciion, a single stainupon his reputation and moral character,ij His valuable life, worn out with sufferings,age, and ministerial sorrow'?, was closed with amemorable act of Christian charity. He was wellknown under the blessed character of a peace¬maker. He was therefore desired bv a yoymrgentleman in the her hbc arhc-d of Bedford, tointerpose, as a mediator, between himself andhis offended father, who lived at Reading, in22Berkshire; this friendly business he cheerfullyundertook, and happily effected. But in his re¬turn to London, being overtaken with excessiverain, he came to a friend’s, on Snow Hiil, verywet, and was seized with a violent fever, thepains of which he bore with great patience, re-signing himself to the will of God, and desiringto be dissolved, that lie might be with Christ;looking upon life as a delay of that blessednesswhich his soul was aspiring to, and thirsting af¬ter. In this holy longing frame of spirit, aftera sickness of ten days, he breathed out his soulinto the hands of his blessed Redeemer, on the$ 1st'of August, 168.8, aged 60 years.His natural abilities were remarkably great; hisfancy and invention uncommonly fertile. Hiswit was sharp and quick ; his memory tenacious,it being customary for him to commit his ser¬mons to writing after he had preached them.—His works are collected in two volumes folio, andcontain as many Tracts as he lived years. Hisjudgment was sound and deep in the doctrines ofthe Gospel, as his writings sufficiently .evince.His piety and sincerity towards God were appar¬ent to all who conversed with him. He con¬stantly maintained the God-like principle of love,resolving to have communion with the saints, assuch, without respect to lesser differences andopinions ; often bewailing the distinguishing ap¬pellations and denominations of Christians. Hewas a man of heroic courage, resolute for Christand the Gospel, and bold in reproving sin, bothin public and private ; yet mild, condescending,and affable to all. Thus lived and died a man,in whose character, conduct, and usefulness, that23ii>cripture was remarkably verified—“ Ye see yourrailing, brethren, how that not many wise menlifter the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble,'ire called. But God hath chosen the foolishihings of the world, to confound the wise; andGod hath chosen the weak things of the world, toIonfound the things w hich are mighty ; and baselungs of the world, and things w-hich are despis-d, hath God chosen ; that no flesh should glory||n his presence.” (1 Cor. i. 26, 29.)The Morning Wuik Improved:Or, Little Mtry accosted by the affectionate Straeger.Pass me not so my little child !Trust m?. I’ve tender thoughts for thee,Sweet floweret, opening in the wild,Young bud of Immortality !U siiw thee sporting ’mong yon flowers,With lightsome heart and look of love ;l And I bethought me of the bowersOf bliss and innocence above.1 Wilt listen to a stranger’s talk ?Wilt hear his prsyer, and heed his warning ?1 Wilt think and say, as home you walk,We’ve gathered goodly flowers this morning.This lily blooms, this lily dies;Soon o’er its little hour of bliss :But thou may’st rise to yonder skies,And bloom a flower of Paradise.Tinniest thou of this, my little child.While life's young visions dance before thee, .And still thy little lot has smiled,And God has held his banner o’er thee ?G ! it is good that infant heartsShould early link themselves with Heaven ;That when earth's dream of hope departs.May high and nobler hopes be given.The world is new, the world is fair ;This buty world’s still bright to thee ;Nor hast thou seen a shade of care,Yet dim its morning radiancy.But ah ! the hour of grief must come jLife’s vernal bloom must soon be over;And thou wilt weep, in anguish dumb,Its sad illusions to discover.A parent earned to the tomb—A heartless, selfish world will showHere Happiness hath not it's home,And sin hath blighted all below.But anay’st thou find the Well of Peace ;And deep!;- drink its heavenly waters ;That sin in thee may wholly cease,And Heaven may take thee’mong its daughters.O ! who while oft his eye is caughtBy childhood’s sw-eet and gentle face.Can choose but pause, in prayerful thought,Their enaless destinies to trace ?'Twas this that caus’d me stay thee so,And press thy little hand in mine ;God bless thee, child ! and make thde knowMis grace, hie peace, his love divine,FINIS.