rfilE SCR VP BOOK is not restru. d to the Months of one ve.ir. but^.ba*1 a reference to the .Months ; ard bestdes not.nng utctdents•r customs peculiar to the'Months,it comprises mstruc n. ing Pieces, well suited to excite in youth a relish for usetul rcadmg.THE3 MoNTiiiiY Scrap Book,FOR NOVEMBER.Kow VV inter comes, to rule the varied year.Sullen and sad, w.th all her rising trainOf Vapours, Clouds, and Storms.CO' TENTS.The fifth of November,      2The Whale ; a Zetland Story, 3The Legend of the Island, : UScottish, or New Independants,  16Hallow E’en,      20Garden Work in November, 24DUNFERMLINE :PUBLISHED BY JOHN HI][ ^ OF SCOTLANDOneFriesTHE FIFTH OF NOVEMBER.Th is tlay is commonly called Gunpowder tre«^ j , .an anniversary on the 5th of November from Ubr'’' f"" ke>,t'"dtscovered, the night before it was to have been put in C ^ *ddesign was to b ow up the kin- James 1 1 ex^cutwn- Th*the lords and commons assembled in parliament ’Tm,, °f V'31"’rators being des.rous of saving lord fllcntra-!e add 16 C°n!<1“mous letter to him, ten days before the parliament d S? anony-thts expression, “ the danger is past s<! soon a. n 'n Wh'ch WafJetier ” J’he earl of isabsburv^atd it w >OU haVe bl,rnt thfmadman ; but the king said, to soon as vn. T*"1,. by some foo] orwas to be interpreted, in as-sfiort a vns ^ ' !a|Ve burnt **le letter,,rtar. , he„, JT?*" «* » *» iishonhl receive a terrible blow this „•> r ^legoing, “ that theyWho hurt them.” he conclu7e;i tLf , nt,'aand yet shot«,d seeby means of gunpowder. .Acc.irdin'dt^Tn *^den b,ow Was preparingthe parliament house were searched^ ^rnr 16 ru°ms ant* ce,lars underwas resolved on the font of timber m ^^-overed, it- the parliament met, to search under the wood in day beforePercy, a paptst. Accordingly Si, I'iLTRnevet by J,r(ime, found at the door 3 man m a cloak and boots thatbended This was Guy Fawkes, who 7s71 ^°ra,he W"*On removing the wootl, <Vc. they discovered thir tv , 1, y f servant*powder, and on Guy Fawkes bein-searched there y x barreis of Sun-“ dark lantern, a tinder box, an^three mlt’cht ^mayed. he boldly said, if he had been ral-■ L- ”!'tc'411 being dis¬have blown up himself and them to ether Tln'Yi.T CCllar’ hc wouIdconfessed the design was to blow up the , s exdnilnation, hepressed great sorrow that it wl not dlT a"d ex-devtl and not God that was the discoverer Was thediscovered to have been in the consnir .ru e number of personswere all Koman catholics, and th. ir'des.an was^to re'ne-'b'?'1'’' theyreligion in England, It appears rh-m .. rest0,re ‘he catholichad assembled, and concerted the plot at the oW Km ^h 7 ass0CiatesLeadeuhail street. Two of the ,L‘,rLo" were kilftd 7 inmg to avoid apprehension : eight were executed m - .end<'avour-aml Garne t, also suffered death ; the forn.er forlryi,^'of the conspiracy did not render it the less just ■" ,h” t J SUCCessprivy to the conspiracy and not revealing^ * ,he latter for beil'SIn such times, the burning of •• a food G„„”unknown to the present dav 'PHb i * r was a scene of uproarof this superior ou er o l order It w’^"1 Inn ^street corner, immediacy o^ite New^e hou-e'1" Qu£en-day long, in carts properly guarded FueI Came a]1have re oembe.ed when uuwaids . f ,wni " t 'a surPrise i old people» «a. .,.<1 feedfeur,t upon-gibbet, between eight and twelve o’clolk 7tTHE(MONTHLY SCRAP ROOK.T HE WHALE;A ZETLAND STORYMost of Magnus Troll’s guests were using theirtoothpick, some were beginning to talk of what wasco be done next, when, with haste in his step, andrire in his eye, Eric Scambester, a harpoon in hisfraud, came to announce to the company, that ther«was a whale on shore, or nearly so, at the throatpf the voe Then you might have seen such a•oyous, boisterous, and universal bustle, as only the'love of sport, so deeply implanted in our natures,scan possibly inspire.The multifarious stores of Burgh Westra wererummaged hastily for all sorts of arms, whichcould be used on such an occasion. Harpoons,iswords, pikes, and halberts, fell to the lot of some;(others contented themselves with hay-forks, spits,land whatever else -could be found, that was at oncedong and sharp. 1 hus hastily equipped, one di¬vision under the command of Captain Cleveland,hastened to man the boats which lay in The littlehaven, while the rest of the party hurried by land;to the scene of actionThe situation in which the enemy’s ill fate hadiplaced him, was particularly favourable to the en-iterprize of the islanders. A tide of unusuali height, had carried the animal over a large bar of^saud, into the voe or creek in which he was nows4. tii" monthlylying1. So soon as he found the water ebbing,became sensible of his danger, and had made d«Jperate efforts to get over the shallow water, vvhtthe waves broke on the bar ; but hitherto he hrath( i injured than mended his condition, havigot himself partly aground, and lying therefore prticularly exposed to the meditated attack. At tmoment the enemy came down uporr him. Tfront ranks consisted of the young and hardarmed in the miscellaneous manner we have-descn*bed ; while, to witness and animate tbuefforts, the young women, and the elderly persoof both sexes, took their place among the rockwhich overhung the scene of action.As tlse boats had to double a little headland, et’ ey opened the mouth of the voe, those who carbv land to the shores of the inlet, had time to maflthe necessary reconnoissances upon the force aifsituation of the enemy, on whom they were aboto commence a simultaneous attack by land and seThis duty, the stout-hearted and experiencegeneral would entrust to no eyes hut his owiand, indeed, his external appearance, and his sajfconduct, rendered him alike qualified for the coimaud which he enjoyed. His gold-laced hat wexchanged for a bear-skin cap, his suit of hibroad-cloth, with its scarlet lining, and loops, aifrogs of bullion, had given place to a red flamjacket, with buttons of black horn, over which 1wore a seal-skin shirt, curiously seamed and plait'the bosom, such as are used by the Esquimauanu* sometimes by the Greenland whale fh henSea boe*S of a formidable size completed his dresiSCRAP BOOtt. ' 0, id, in his hand, he held a huge whaling-knife,ihich he brandished, as if impatient to employ itJ the operation of flinching the huge animal'hich lay before them, the act of separating, that is,s flesh from its bones. Upon closer examination,rmvever, he was obliged to confess, that the sporti which he had conducted his friends, howevernuch it corresponded with the magnificent scale ofis hospitality, was likely to be attended with itswn peculiar dangers and difficulties.' The animal, upwards of sixty feet in length,!?as lying perfectly still, in a deep part of the voeito which it had weltered, and where it seemed towait the return of tide, of w hich it was probablyassured by instinct. A council of experiencedlarpooners was instantly called, and it was agreed• hat an effort should he made to noose the tail of'his torpid leviathan, by casting a cable around V,o be made fast by anchors to the shore, and thuso secure against his escape, in case the tide shouldf nake before they were able to dispatch him 1 hrCei tioats were destined to this delicate piece of service,one of which the Udaller himself proposed to com-imand, while Cleveland and Mertoun were t*i direct the two others. This being decided, they- sat down on the strand, waiting with impatience,i until the naval part of the force should arrive injl the voe. It was during this interval, that I ripto-jj lemus Yellowley, after measuring with his eyes thef extraordinary size of the whale, observed, that ini his poor mind, “ A wain with six ow.sen, or withi sixty owsen either, if they were the owsen of thei: country, could not drag siccan a huge create re fromu TIIK MONTin vthe crater, where it was now lying1, to the Pea-beach;Trifling as this remark may seem to the readdit was connected with a subject which always fimtoe blond of the old Udaller, who, glancing upcFriptolemus a quick and stern look, asked hi iMhat the devil it signified, supposing a hutidro;oxen could not drag the whale upon the beachMr \ ellowlev, though not much liking the tonwith which the question was put, felt that his didnity and his profit compelled him to answer rffollows:-—“ Nay, sir—you know yoursell, MastiAlagnus Froil, and every one^ knows that knowLay thing, that whales ofsiccan size as may not 1masterfully dragged or. shore by the instrumentalty of one wain with six owsen, are the right antproperty of the admiral, who is at this time thsame noble lord who is, moreover, chamberlain c]these isles.”“ And I tell you, Mr Triptolemus Yellowley,,’sn’d the Udaller, “ as I would tell your master 'he were here, that every man who risks his life tbring that fish ashore, shall have an equal shartand partition, according to our ancient and loveabl 'Norse custom and wont; nay, if there is so muclas a woman looking on, that will but touch th'cable, she will be a partner with us ; ay, and morethan all that, if she will but say there is reason forit, we will assign a portion to the babe that i‘•nborn.”The strict principle of equity, which dictatedthis last arrangement, occasioned laughter amonglthe men, and some slight confusion amongst thdwomen. Ihe factor, however, thought it shameSCRAP BOOK. 7u: ts be so easily daunted,—“ I will stand for myi) lord’s rio^ht and my own,” said he.“ Will you ?” replied Magnus ; “ then, by the| Martyr’s bones, you shall have no law of partitionH but that of God and Saint Olave, which we had*< before either factor, or treasurer, or admiral, were*( heard of—All shall share that lend a hand, andnever a one else.— So you, Master Factor, shallI be busy as well as other folk, and think yourselflucky to share like other folks. Jump into thatboat, (for the boats had by this time pulled roundthe headland,) and you, my lads, make way for thefactor in the stern sheets—he shall be the firstman this blessed day that shall strike the fish.”The loud authoritative voice, and the habit ofabsolute command inferred in the Udaller’s wholemanner, together with the conscious want of fa¬vourers and backers amongst the rest of the com¬pany, rendered it difficult for Triptolemus to evadecompliance, although he was thus about to be placed!in a situation equally novel and perilous. He wasstill, however, hesitating, and attempting an expla¬nation with a voice in which anger was qualified byfear, and both thinly disguised under an attempt tobe jocular, and to represent the whole as a jest,when he heard the voice of Baby maundering in hisear,—“ Wad he lose his share of the ulzie, and thelang Zetland winter coming on, when the lightestday in December is not so clear as a moonlessnight in the Mearns ?”This domestic instigation, in addition to those offear of tho Uduller, and shame to seem less cou-ragous than others, so inflamed the agriculturist’sTH;; MONTHLYspirits, tlsaf ire >••'.•0,.^. Iii« qraip aloft, and enlereditlie heat with t ,e ii- of iVeptaue himself, carrying,on high his trident. ( To be concluded, iTHE LEGEND OP THE ISLAND.For nthly StTap Book.It is well for ho marry, that acts of the blackestand most hornf * nature, engendered by the mosttbrutal and vindictive passions, are often counter-;.Kiiued and rendered abortive by the quiet working!of those whose influence is of a far more gentle!kind. The heart of man has conceived, and thehand of man would have executed deeds of malignant and deadly purpose, hut often has the stillsmall voice of love and affection been heard speaking in its clearest and purest tcnv from out the:tempest, warning, admonishing, and frequent!averting a calamity involving destruction and deathIn the centre of a deep and wide-spreading:;highland loch, rose a lovely island, of considerableextent. It possessed convenient landing-places on:every side, was in many parts well wooded andsheltered, and afforded the finest herbage in theiwhole district. Yet the benefits of these qualities1had never been enjoyed; for they had rendered ita bone of contention between two powerful clans,,residing on opposite sides of the loch, the liberty of;fishing which was allowed to be common to both,,but each claimed the exclusive privilege of pastor..big their cattle on the island. In a country wheremight was right, the dispute could be settled in no.other manner than by an appeal to the dirk and!skene-dhu, and consequently a war of little else thanSCRAP DOOK. 9termination had been carried on tor a co isidera-n period between ttie hostile clans. I he chiefsr each had at last determined to settle the matter■ illy by a decisive meeting ; and tor nearly aton the rocks on either side had rung with thelist of defiance.The sun rose bright and fair on the morning ofii day appointed, and the disputed island layrrored in the lake whose surface owned not thjpress of the slightest breath. J Ins universalnlm of nature was soon broken, and on all sidesi ere heard the animating strains of the pibroch,h every glen poured forth its body of men eagerI r the fray, and thirsting for revenge. Not onlyas there the principal cause ot offence, but eachlid some petty athiir of his own urging him ontolie general strife, and while the two bodies halted1) the open plain at the end of the loch, in order toeathe a little, they regarded each other with looks:id yells of the most deadly enmity.I lire clan Macpherson, though deficient in num-brs, was in a high state of discipline, extremelyell armed, and known to possess signal courage,their rivals, the Macalpines, wore much longeruives, and were distinguished for the most obsti¬nate pertinacity in keeping their ground, as well asor superior agility in leaving it when no longerenable ; which of these two was to carry oil' thelualm of victory, was now to be decided.It is impossible to describe the inveterate furyvith which the clans rushed together, when the; hiefs gave the wotd to advance. All the wrongsuind affronts, real or imaginary, treasured in theTHE MONTHLYstorehouse of memory, were called up to give deefer energy to every arm, and in every bio.there seemed concentrated the wrath ofhundred feuds. Deeds of the most daring an.desperate tesolution, and acts ot the bloodiest artmost deadly kind were performed on both side-'w hde the skdl and tact of the chiefs long held tl,plain undecided, and the sun was fast descendiminto night when the clan Macalpine found it nocessaiy to retire before a rush of their opponent-who had collected all their forces for this last effbr'Night had now come on. and, favoured by itone of the fugitives named Angus, plunged into thloch, intending to swim to the opposite shore, anthereby avoid pursuit. \\ hen, however, he reached the laud, he found, that, owing to the confusionand dai kness, he had swum to the JVlacphersoipside of the lake, and was within fifty paces of theilbivouac, blight seemed impossible, for he was allready discovered by a damsel, on whose tendetmercy he resolved to throw himself.Walking up therefore with a firm step, he toldher his situation, and besought her not to alarnher kinsmen. The girl, terrified and irresolute.'knew not how to act, or what to answer, when agleam of moonlight bursting through the cloud*fell full upon Angus, and showed his tall and state¬ly form to perfect advantage. Rosa, for that was'the girl s name, could not think of betraying one1who had put himself in her power, even though!she was the chief’s daughter, and she hastily con-'ducted Angus to a little creek where boats vverttSCilAP BOOK. 11ept, and telling him to keep to the north, she .nmoored a bark and left him.' Next morning the small numbers who gatheredound their respective standards, shewed the extentf the havoc which each clan had made and sus-ained, while the thinness of their ranks, the dis-lal wailing of the women and children who wereusy among the dead on the battle-field, and thejielancboly strains of the coronach, effectually pre-lented a recurrence of the fight, and disheartenedae Macphersons from following up their victory,hey knew, moreover, by the hum which roseom the other side of the loch, that the MacalpinesI ad not lost so many as was anticipated, and mightet be able to make a desperate stand ; they t here->re entered into a treaty with them for a cessa-ition of hostilities for one month,—a proposal• hich was heartily acceded to.I. Jt was one clear moonlight night that Rosa was“turning from seeing an old woman who hadlarsed her, when she met a venerable, white-headedtuinstrel, who, with the freedom always allowed. > persons ot his class, accosted the damsel, and be-' an to jest with her on her lonely wanderings :—y Where roams my child of the mist to-night ?”sked he, using the poetic language of his pto-r.tssion ; “ \Y hy shine the moonbeams on Rosatlacpherson ?” “ Methinks,” replied Rosa, “anoung voice comes from under a grey head, andiat thou art no true minstrel, so here, Jlanger,”is she spoke a dog came bounding out from theneuth, and would have exerted his prowess on thei:ranger, had not Rosa stooped to fondle and r«_12 THE MONTHLYstrain him. \\ hr'n she arose, the minstrel wasi>one, and in his stead stood Angus Macalpine in it ie same dress in which he had appeared on a for¬mer occasion. “ Oh Rosa,” exclaimed he, tryingto seize her hand, which, however, she withdrew,‘‘ the debt which 1 owe you can never he repaideven by the best services of a life which you saved,’‘ W el), and what then ?” interrupted Rosa, “dontyou know the terms on which our two clans standa1 present ; why have you put your life in jeopar¬dy a second time? Quick, don your mantle andleave me; 1 would not willingly bring thee toharm.” “ No, Rosa, no ; leave thee 1 will not,till you promise to meet me again, for since thateventful night ttic e has arisen within me a concerntor the fair authoress of mv deliverance, which allthe enmity of our clans can not quench ; and,dearest Rosa,— here the barking of Ranger, ex¬cited by approaching footsteps, interrupted him, andhe could only add, “ will you meet me here three tnights after this?” Qn receiving a very indirectanswer, he vanished in a thicket.On reaching home Rosa was surprized at find¬ing herself more interested in this meeting thanthe eould lave imagined, and, before she wrasaware, she bad formed the resolution of seeingAngus on the evening appointed. Meantime thehostile clans began to reco ver fn m the effects of thelate skirmish, and the latent thirsi for vengeancewas again excited. i he loss sustained hy theMac] keisons rendered them doubtful of a second>ictuy, and on that account a plan suggested iuSCRAP BOOK. ^> „e of their gatherings was eagerly embraced, andmas already ripening for execution. It was duringihese discussions, when nearly the vvhole of the clanmas assembled, that Rosa gave the old minstrel|for Angus still wore the disguise) several meetings,and every visit tended more and more to endearIhem to each other, while the danger arising fromi the enmity of the clans only rendered the attach¬ment more interesting.The last week of the truce had nearly passed,land Rosa and Angus had met at the accustomedjspot.—“ Sweet Rose,’’ said Angus, “we must liy,[khe ter m is nearly ended,—next moon will be one(of bloodshed and death.” “ It will,” replied Rose,rand she shuddered as she spoke,—“ Oh Angus,she continued, “ I have learned a dreadful secret,laud though duty and allegiance forbid, 1 cannotikeep it. A black act of treachery is meditated, —3 here the struggle between duty and aftection neai lyi overcame her, and she required all Angus’support,,  “but,” she continued, “it shall not be. “ v aimr yourself,” interrupted Angus, “ and banish theser thoughts from your mind ; treachery never thrives; among true hearted Celts, and true as you say, iti shall not be.” “ You are too generous, Angus,too generous, hut you shall know all replied Kosa,< “ our elans, Angus, dread another day like the last,: and have resolved to make up a strong and lastingpeace. For this purpose they are to invite your, clan to a noble entertainment, and in the midst of1 the wassail the .entrance of a bull’s head is to be thesignal,—for heaven’s sake support me Angus,——d^cannot proceed.” “’Tis enough, enough,”THE MONTHLY14ejaculated her lover, “ what black hearted caitif de¬vised this scheme ? but by all the ghosts whichwander behind yon blue hills, it shall never be.”Rosa could only murmur, “ Remember the chief,my father,” when she fainted,—nature being nolonger able to sustain the intense state of feelingwhich her disclosure had produced. The applica¬tion of some very cold water from a spring soonrecovered the damsel, and after her spirits had be¬come more composed, Angus conducted her as farhome as was consistent with his own safety.Next morning all was bustle and talk in the clanMacalpine. A white flag ha 1 come over from fileMacphersons with two of the old men or patriarchs,who had made proposals' for-peace and an equaldivision of the disputed island, which, as it hadbeen the cause of dissension, was now to be madethe ground of reconciliation ; for a feast, such ashighlanders alone make, was to be held on it, andthe treaty ratified by the chiefs in the presence ofhe two clans. After mature deliberation the offerwas accepted, and the old men departed highlypleased with their success. Angus, from pruden¬tial reasons, kept his secret till the evening previousto the feast, for he well knew that had it beenknown a week beforehand, the intelligence mightpossibly have reached the other side of the loch.1 hat evening however, he disclosed the meditatedtreachery to a full gathering of his clan, assembledto arrange matters for the morrow. _ At first, thetruth was doubted, so fair and open bad been theconduct of the Macphersons, but when he gave ashis authoritv the name of Rosa, and repeated herSCRAP BOOK. 15wish concerning' her father, the feeling of beliefgained ground, and it was unanimously agreed, ifany thing appeared to verify their supicions, totreat their neighbours according'’ to their own in-tentions.Early in the morning preparations were in coursefor the work of the dav ; and by noon the wholeclans were on the island, and engaged in feats ofagility or strength. The process of reconciliationwas gone through with all that laboured ceremonywhich suited with the dignity of the parties, andshortly after all seated themselves to the dinnerfeast.It was usual on such occasions for each clan tosit by itself on one side, but at present the Mac-phersons, disregarding use and wont, contrived toarrange it so that a Macpherson and Macalpinealternated with each other at table. This circum¬stance struck the Macalpines, and increased theirsuspicions, and Angus bad no doubt on the mat¬ter when he remarked how often and how deeplyhis clan were pledged ; he did not therefore hesi¬tate, when he saw the famous dish of a bull’s headmake its appearance, at once to shout the Macal¬pine slogan and bury his dirk in the side of theman who sat next him ; his example was instantlyfollowed by the rest of the clan, and before a Mac-pherson could unsheathe a weapon, none save thechief and a few old men remained alive.We must pass over the events of a few weeks.During that time one or two of the Macphersonswho had escaped, surrendered themselves and con¬fessed their knowledge of the treachery which had16 THE MONTHLYrecoiled so fearfully upon the framers ofit. Fromthe day that he witnessed the slaughter of his clan,the chief had pined away in melancholy till deathreleased his proud spirit. It is scarcely necessaryto narrate that after time'had taken the edge offthe circumstances related, the fates of Angus andllosa were conjoined, and, for his services to theclan on such a momentous occasion, the greaterpart of the island was granted to him for a hun¬dred years.SCOTTISH, oa NEW INDEPENDENTS.John Glass gave iise to Independency in Scot¬land, altont 1 728 ; since which time several otherIndependeir churches have arisen, but, from theirobscurity, the sentiments they held have not beengenerally known. The Scottish, ©r New Inde¬pendents, had their origin in the institution ofMissionary Societies in 1798, among whom Mr11. Haldane appeared an eminent promoter, andin consequence-of being prevented by the govern¬ment in carrying his plans of propagating the Gospelin the East, le ardently turned his attention to thestate of religion at home.-Large places of worship, which were at first dis¬tinguished by the name of Tabernacles, were erec¬ted at Mr K. il’s expenee in the principal towns,where the word of God was declared to numerousassemblies, both by those ministers and others fromvarious denominations in England. Mr J. Hal¬dane, and Mr Aikman, were finally fixed at Edin¬burgh, Mr Imres at Dundee, and Mr Ewing atSCHAP BOOK. . 11blaAgow, besides various other preachers who! vere established iu dilTerent parts of the country* Academies likewise, supported chiefly, if not sole-, v, at the expence of Mr II. H. were foimed in|liilioburgh, Dundee, and Glasgow, fortheeduca-rtion of younjr men for the work of the ministry ;I who, when deemed qualified for preaching'the gos-pcl, were to be employed .as itinerants, under theinspection and conn'enance of the “ Society fotVrapayaliny the Gospel at Home.Thus a succession of teachers was seemed, andiso well was their plan founded and administered, thatiwhile their wants were duly supplied, it presentedi no temptation to any to embark in the cause, whosei avarice was greater than their zeal tor doing good.They lay down this as a fundamental principle,that a Christian church ought to consist of belie¬vers, or of those who give evidence of their know¬ing and believing the gospel, united together upon1 the profession of its truths, and walking agreeably: to them ; that it ought to be directed in its dis-: cipline and order by the Scriptures only ; and that; all Christians, of all ages, are hound to observe th«n universal and approved practices of the first church¬es, as recorded in Scripture.In their mode of worship they do not differ much! from Presbyterians. Many of them use, besidesthe Psalms, a collection of Hymns, and stand in.i the time of singing. 1 hey observe the Lord sSupper every first day of the week ; and they makeno real distinction between clergy and laity, thewant, or the absence, of eldeis and deacons, uponany occasion, in many of their chapels, is not thoughtthe monthlytwn of'tTJ irT0,‘ f°r Preventin? the admim'str*week Ti ’ CO nmu!non on first day of thdLe, V. ib%Cont™<l that, by the approved prad.1 ° aoostohc churches, it is demonstrated to hrthe appointment of Christ, that his churches mumobserve the Lord’s Supper every first day of theweek , and the evidence of this, we are told, isjust as strong as that they or we are required’ to-assemble at all on that day. They admit to theirifellowship Christians of all denominations, if thevfave reason to think their conduct is correspondingto the profession they make ; and as to church go¬vernment, the members of this denomination arcindependents in the strictest sense of the word, fant oheve that the apostolical churches, accordingto the model of which it is their great and profess-e object in all things to conform, were entirelyint pendent, none of them being subject to anyoreign jurisdiction, but each one governed by itsown rulers, and by no other laws than those whichare written in the word of God.I hey admit that all churches, i. e. congrega¬tions, are connected together as being Chrises sub¬jects ; but they insist that they are dependant onlyupon their King, in whose hands the supreme au¬thority rests. And while they teach that Inde¬pendent churches have no authority over each other,they allow that they may yet receive the advantageof each others opinion upon any matter of impor¬tance ; and that intercourse may be maintained be¬tween churches, by rheir sending me-sengers toeach other, as the Apostolic churches did. 2 Cor.viii. 23,—-One church, they allow, may adviseI SCRAP ROOK.another, well as an iiwlividual may advise aiiindividual ; “hut any attempt to influence, byauthority, the order of any church, is a departurefrom Serioture, and never can be attended withStood eflect s.”They likewise recommend mutual good offices,and the cultivation of an alfectionate correspon¬dence between churches, by their giving and re-ecivinsf advice ;—by their praying for each other,especially when any thing difficult or importantoccurs ;—by their ]oining to promote the spreadof the gospel ;—by their communicating to eachother’s necessities, and by many other things of asimilar nature.They conceive that Bishop and Llder were, inapostolic times, synonymous terms; that thestated officers in all the churches then were eldersand deacons, and of course that they are the onlyoffices essential to a church of Christ. Withthem every elder is a preacher, and they conceivethere is no difference, in any respect, betweenelder and deacon, except in the offices to whichthey are appointed. Both are ordained bv impo¬sition of hands ; and although ordination, whichthey sav, conveys no indelible character, is part ofthe elder’s province, yet, when churches are newlyformed, or in other like cases of necessity, theyallow that the members, who have always the rightof election, may ordain church officers for them¬selves, or, at least, set them apart to their respec¬tive offices ; for, in circumstances where ordi¬nation by elders is practicable, “ it is proper ;where otherwise, it is not necessary.”7 V2© THR MONTHLYAs they reject all systems of faith composed byman, so they are equally against all fixe ! codesof laws to reofulate their deliberations in affairs of \discipline, and strictly adhere, in this respect also,to their principle of takingr the word of God“alone, in matters of relioion.” The lespslative .authority, they tell us, exclusively belongs toChrist, and is already exercised in his word ;they therefore.disavow all ria^ht to wnka laws, butadmit a riaht to judae of the application of thelaws of Christ, and a riffht to execute those laws,when judged to be applicable to any particular case.The first belongs to Jesus alone,—the second tothe whole church,—the third to the riders or el¬ders of the church, who may therefore be calledthe executive officers of the church.In all points of discipline, they profess to makea uniform appeal to the word of God, and to no^thing else, conceiving that no case can occur in achurch of Christ, concerning which we have notsufficient directions in the New Testament, and thatthe practice of the Apostles was recorded to be acomplete guide for the churches in every age.I here is no such thing as voting in any oftheir deliberations ; and in receiving new members,they conceive that every one ought to be admittedby the unanimous voice of the church*HALLOW E’EN.Hallow E’en, or as it is styled in England, AllHallow Eve, is the eve or night preceding AllSaints’ Day, a church festival held on the first ofPISCUAP BOOK. StNovember, — Hallow e’en is consequently observedon the 31st October : and the peculiar incantationspractised in “ bandin’ ” this night in Scotland wei shall shortly describe.Burns says that the passion of prying into futuritymakes a striking part of the history of humr • na¬ture, in its rude state, in all ages and nations ; an iti it may be some entertainment to a philosophic mindI to see the remains of among the more unen¬lightened in our own. He gives, therefore, theprincipal charms and spells of this night among thepeasantry in the west of Scotland. One of theseby young women, is, by pulling stalks of corn.“They go to the barn yard, and pull, each, atthree several times, a stalk of oats. If the thirdstalk wants the top-pickle, that is, the grain at thetop of the stalk, the party in question will cometo the marriage bed any thing but a maid.”Another is by the hlue due. “Whoever would,with success, try this spell, must strictly observethese directions : steal out, all alone, to the kiln,and, darkling, throw into the pot a clew of bluevaru ; wind it in a new clew off the old one ;and, towards the latter end, something will holdthe thread ; demand, ‘wha hands ?’ i. e. whoholds ? An answer will be returned from the kiln-pot, by naming the Christian and surname of yourfuture spouse.” A third charm is by eating anapple at a glass. “Take a candle and aloneto a looking-glass ; eat an apple before it, and sometraditions say, you should comb your hair all thetime ; the face of your conjugal companion to be,will be seen in the glass, as if peeping over your22 the monthlyshouldcs.” 1 he first ceremony of Hallow E’enis pulling- each a stock or plant of kail. The}must go out, hand in hand, with eyes shut, amipull the first they meet with. Its being big orlittle, straight or crooked, is prophetic of the sizeand shape of the grand object of all their spells the husband or wife. If any yird, or earth, stickto the root, that is tocher, or fortune ; and the taste .of the custoc, that is the heart of the stem, isindicative of the natural temper and disposition..Lastly, the sterns, or, to give them their ordinaryappellaiton, the runts, are placed somewhere tabove the head of the door ; and the Christiannames of the people whom chance brings into thehouse, are, according to the priority of placing the irunts, the names in question.” “Burning thenuts is a favourite charm. They name the lad liand lass to each particular nut, as they lay themin the fire ; and accordingly as they burn quietlytogether, or start from beside one another, thecourse and issue of the courtship will be.” It isto be noted, that in 1 reiand, when the young-women would know if their lovers are "faithful,they put three nuts upon the bars of the grates,naming the nuts after the lovers. If a nut cracks ?i■or jumps, the lover will prove unfaithful ; if it be¬gins to blaze or burn, he has a regard for the per- -json making the trial. If the nuts, named after the *jgirl and her lover, burn together, they will bemarried. Another is to “steal out unperceived,and sow a handful of hempseed, harrowing it withany thing you can conveniently draw after you.llepeat, now and then, ‘ Hempseed I saw thee ; andSCRAP BOOK. 23"m (or ker) tJlat is to be my true love, come afterlie and pou thee. ’ Look over your left shoulder1 , y°u W1;1 see t,i(i appearance of the person in-;oked, m the attitude of pulling hemp. Some tra¬ctions say, ‘come after me and shaw thee* that isrV t'lyself j in which case it simply appears.’others omit the harrowing, and say, ‘ come afteri e and harrow thee.’ And another is, “to wiuniiree wechts 0; naethin.” The wecht is the in-urument used m winnowing corn. This charmijnust likewise be performed unperceived and alone.10U t!i,e baru a,Jd open both doors, takingfjhem off the hinges, if possible : for there is dangerHat the being, about to appear, may shut the doorsrl (1° y°u som« mischief. Then take that in-trument used in winnowing the corn," which, in7 ?ialect* 've cal1 a veche, and goHugh all the attitudes of letting down cornigainst the wind. Repeat it three times ; and thejiird time, an apparition will pass through ’ thelarn, m at the windy door, and out at the other,'avn.g both the figure in question, and the apnear-HV”' ca,ki^ the employment or station1 e;, t?!r, there is “ to fathor11 tila^ack three*»ies_ I ake an opportunity of going unnoticed> a bear stack (barley stack), and fathom it t'-reeImes round The last fathom of the last time,nou Will catch m your arms the appearance of yourwture conjugal yokefellow.” Another, “to dininur left shirt sleeve in a burn where three birds’Minds meet.” “ You go out, one or for',S11S a s1oc,al to a south-runuin. ing orivulet, where ‘ three lairds’ lands meet,’ , ad dip24 the monthlyyour left shirt sleeve. Go to bed in sight of ;a fire, and hang your wet sleeve to dry. Lfjawake ; and some time near midnight, an appariition, having the exact figure of the grand object i:question, will come and turn the sleeve, as if to dr^ithe other side of it.” Ihe last is a singular spe'cies of divination “ with three biggies, or dishes.’“ Take three dishes ; put clean water m one, rbmwater in another, and leave the third empty |blindfold a person, and lead him to the hearth wherthe dishes are ranged ; he (or she) dips the leihand ; if by chance in the clean water, the futurhusband or wife will come to the bar of matrimon ja maid ; if in the foul a widow ; if in the empt|dish, it fortells with equal certainty no marriagjat all. It is repeated three times : and eVery tun!the arrangement of the dishes is altered.G \RDEN WOIIK IN NOVEAISER. .Finish planting gooseberries, entrants, rasps, and tloued;n,, shrubs: also fruit and forest trees, putting lootdint''- round the stems to preserve them from frost. Setmore early pease, beaus, and a few radishes, on a wartborder. Plant ail kinds of bulbous rooted dowers, *isome anemonies and ranunculuses.Novembku 1stDay breaks, Sun rises,  -sets, Twilight ends-,....h.-7A,Gm.17114!)43November 31st. h. f> 7. ...4D.iy breaks.Sun rises,...Twilight ends t>