ite$?r^zf&THEINTREPID & DARING ADVENTURESOFSIXTEEN BRITISH SEAMENTO WHICH IS ADDED, gg?itA CURE FOR THE TOOTHACH. [R* t'C'.PAISLEY:PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY G. CALDWELL.1837.huiyxiuD r::u htiBwiiEv bx a c /roMErrf CUBE LOB XHE J OOXHVCirXJ.EEW BBI1I3H aEWUEM!n e>. d vvma yDj mKi:^' XHETHE ADVENTURES OFSIXTEEN BRITISH SEAMEN.1 vThe history of the war of independence inIhe western states of South America is inter-persed with numerous instances of remarkabledvcmture. Desultory in its nature, and un-tonnected in its details, that war was peculiar-y fitted to call into activity the latent energiesif those who participated in its perils; andthe spirit of bold enterprise to which it gaveliise was shared no less by those who fared onihe sea, than by the scattered guerilla partiesm the continent. The banner of freedom,indeed, had hardly been raised on the towersif Valparaiso, when numerous bands of hardyieamen fitted out their barks for predatory ad-rrenture ; and privateers in particular, receivedi#oth encouragement and assistance from theinsurgent government, whose policy it was tosreaken, by every possible means, the maritimepower of the mother country. Foreigners,as well as Americans, eagerly embarked in the:business of legalised plunder, not from anyprinciple of patriotism, it is obvious, but uponmere mercenary speculation. British sailors,more than those of any other country, wereenamoured of the exploits which such a field;of enterprise presented for their achievement,and many of them left their peaceful London;and Liverpool traders to share, if not in thehonours, at least in the antic pated profit andjpleasure of a course, perhaps a life, of perpe-itual hostility.Previous to the arrival of Lord Cochrane’sfleet on the coast of Chili, privateering was!nearly at its height in the South Americaniseas, and it is to that period, viz. in 1818,that the following isolated passage of historybelongs.Soon after Valparaiso had fallen into thehands of the revolutionary forces, a few Bri¬tish seamen resolved to set up as privateers onthe Chilian and Peruvian coasts. With thisview, having in the first instance, procured thegovernor’s licence, they purchased an oldij;VVest Indian druggerboat, (a vessel similarjto a lighter in this country) as sorry looking];a craft as ever ventured a league to sea, hutsthe small stock of dollars which they hadfsucceeded in scraping together did not enableUiem to purchase one better fitted tor theirurpese. Having taken a few additional hands: ;ito partnership, they soon put a deck upon.!sr, and otherwise rigged her out in tolerable».yle. They next collected a quantity of oldifms, consisting of muskets, pistols, cutlasses,:oarding-pikes, and two small swivels, which' ley mounted on the boat’s timber-heads ; buti they were to trust chiefly to boarding, theynok on board no cannon—their bark, indeed,as, from its diminutive size, utterly unfit forns grand instrument of war. Altogether,leir outfit and the object of it seemed some-i: hat of a burlesque upon ordinary privateer-but they were good-humoured fellows,nd of a joke, and their own masters, so theyd not mind the mirth and harmless ridiculeliich their armament excited.Thus equipped, and having stowed on boardveral bales of dry jerk beef, with some othercessary articles of provision, they put to sea,Jtermined to make the most of every thingey should meet with. The crew consistedsixteen hands, commanded by one Mackay,Scotsman, who had a short time before re¬tied the office of steward in a South-Seaaler, and who had originally projected thisad-like scheme. They had only one coursefollow,—for the trade wind, which blowsr a considerable part of the year constantlyefrom the&auth, carried them briskly up tinwide coast of Peru. On their voyage, whiclwas extended to a considerable distance be;yond Lima, they had not the good fortune fi*fall in with a single legitimate prize ; but run;ning short of provisions, they were soon forceeto put under contribution such trading vesseland boats as they chanced to fall in with. Supporting themselves entirely by compulsory leviesit was not long before they'lost all proper sensjof a distinction between plundering and privqjtccring; but the plea of necessity was always ahand to satisfy their not over-scrupulous con:sciences, that in employing such means to suppljtheir wants, they did nothing morally wrong—orat least that, circumstanced as they were, theidoings amounted, at the utmost, to juslifiablimaurauding. Their acts of depredation bccamtso frequent, however, and in some instances of scaggravated a character, that they soon excitccalarm throughout the whole coast. Even at Limathey were heard of. At one period, indeed, rwas seriously intended by the authorities there,to dispatch a small force to consign the druggeiand her pilfering crew to the bottom of the oceanbut they were saved the trouble of carrying theiitheir threat into execution. The offenders soonbrought on their own apparent ruin ; for, dreadied by friends no less than foes, they were in a fewweeks shunned and run from by every bark thathove in sight. Smugglers, as well as people oftheir own calling, refused not only to relieve theirwants, but to hold any intercourse with them;;7and they were at the same time denied all com-(v munication with the peaceable citizens on shore.1 Thus situated, both their provisions and waterwere speedily exhausted, and, to add to their dis-; tress, their little vessel became leaky to such a! degree that she was almost wholly unfit for sea,if' while they were themselves worn out with thed constant exertion which was necessary to keepii her afloat.They were, therefore, compelled to turn to-fc wards Valparaiso ; but, under the difficulties they< had to encounter, the attempt to reach that portK was almost a hopeless one. The wind blew righti a-head, while they had neither provisions, norwj were they in a situation in other respects to ven-ij ture upwards of a hundred miles from land, ino order to fall under the north trade-wind. In!Jn these painful circumstances, and not daring totouch at any of the intermediate ports, there wasno alternative but to sweep (rowing in a deckedboat is, in technical phrase, sweeping) back toValparaiso. They were not without apprehen¬sion, too, that Spanish frigates might be cruisingon the coast, into whose hands they knew it wouldd be certain destruction to fall.' No wonder, there-i| fore, that their spirits flagged a little, and thatt they now crept along the coast with a degree ofcaution that contrasted strikingly with their(former reckless disregard of all danger. It wasonly during the night, indeed, that they coastedalong; during the day they skulked in close tothe land, concealing themselves in unfrequentedcreeks and among the rocks, where they employ¬ed themselves in fishing, now the only means by^ which they obtained a subsistence.8While thus fighting their way against fortuneand the winds, they tell in with an Indian fisher¬man, whom they made prisoner, to procure fromhim information respecting the state of the coast;and they had an eye also to his fishing appara¬tus, as well as to the benefit of his superior skillin the art of using it; for by this time they weresolely pressed by tbe common wants of our na¬ture. By the Indian they were informed thatthe coast was clear of king’s ships —that an armedmerchantman from Old Spain had arrived atArica (a fortified town still in the hands of theloyalists), a few days before, and that she waslying under the protection of the fort, ready todischarge a valuable cargo. Their disappoint¬ment at having missed the opportunity of fallingin with so rich a prize, in consequence of useless,and in other respects, hurtful delays, was extreme,for they entertained no doubt whatever, that, hadthey been down in time, as they would have beenbut for these delays, the Minerva would havebeen the reward of all their privations, Disap¬pointment is not a feeling that arises in the mind,and thqn instantaneously passes away; it recursits energies to redeem the mistaken oragain and again, to vex the spirit, and to rouseneglectedstep by which it has been troubled. With thecrew of the drugger-boat it operated with instant¬aneous effect, and they were at the same timestimulated, by the severe pressure of existing ne*cessities, to form the desperate resolution ofattempting the capture of the Minerva. Butthen, on farther interrogation, the Indian added,that besides being armed with five-and-twentyguns, and lying, as the vessel did, within musketshot of a strong battery, she had received onboard, in addition to a numerous crew, upwardsof 250 Spanish soldiers, for the especial purposeof protectinglier from any piratical or predal at¬tack. These were difficulties which, to the ordi¬nary run of mortals, would have been consideredas absolutely insurmountable; but, by the hand-fu; of famishing tars, they were viewed in no suchlight. The crew of the Minerva did not enterinto their calculation at all; for once on board,with cutlass in hand, they would speedily beovercome; and the fort, though strong enoughto blow them out of the water in five minutes,would not surely (so they reasoned among them¬selves) be so regardless of Spanish life and Spa¬nish property, as to sink the Minerva in order todestroy a few impertinent maurauders already onboard of her. The formidable guard of soldiers,could not, however, be so conveniently disposedof. To attempt a fair stand-up-fight with a forcenumerically so far superior, would be to courtcertain destruction. It therefore appeared tothem that the only means by which the difficultymight, by possibility, be obviated, was to boardthe vessel by surprise at midnight, and to secureher hatches—a plan sufficiently simple in itself,and effectual too, provided it could be promptlyaccomplished. A council of war, consisting ofall hands, having been held, the scheme under¬went solemn, but by no means deliberate discus¬sion, and was pronounced quite practicable!This point finally settled to every one’s entireI satisfaction, and evening coming on, they stole10out from among the rocks where they had beenconcealed during the day, and hove warily downtowards the mouth of the semicircular bay, inthe innermost verge of which stands the beautifultown of Arica. Before daybreak they again be¬took themselves to a hiding place, close on shore,some eight or ten miles distant from Arica; and,ere the sun had been an hour above the horizon,each in his turn had slipped out in the Indian’scanoe to enjoy a stolen peep at the expectedprize. Their arms and ammunition were nowcarefully overhauled. Every pistol received afresh flint, and its lock a touch of oil. A suffi¬cient quantity of powder was spread out on anold top-sail to dry in the sun ; and, while engagedin settling the details of the assault, they employ¬ed their hands in giving their rusty cutlasses thekeen edge of a razor. All this day, a little putridwater was their only refreshment, for they hadnot had leisure to capture a single fish ; but theirmental anxiety was sufficiently instense to absorball consciousness of physical wants.The poor Indian fisherman was kept as muchas possible in the dark as to the important partthat was to be assigned to him in the affair. Hehappened to be the only one on board who couldspeak Spanish with sufficient fluency to escapeinstant detection; and, in the event of beingchallenged by the Minerva’s sentinels, he wasinstructed to say that they were the bearers ofdispatches for the captain from the commanderof the Spanish fleet.Towards evening the wind died away into adead calm, and the moon rose with just as muchIIIght as sufficed to render objects close at handiafficiently distinguishable, while there was notijiough of it to expose to view those at a distance,vfhus favoured, the sixteen lion-hearted Britishamen left their lurking place, and stole into they towards the Minerva About midnight, thejll light of a lantern on board became visible,d in a few minutes afterwards the dim outlinethe vessel’s hull was discovered. For a mo-t ent the drugger’s oars were suspended to allowi ^r crew to draw one deep breath before strikinge desperate blow. During this pause, each(an ascertained that his brace of pistols was ins belt, and his cutlass and boarding-pike atnd. Their courage required no “ screwing,” for in one and all of them it naturally re-uned, at all times, above the “ sticking pointt at this moment of suspense, it may easily bei nceived that their breasts were swelled with amult.of distracted emotion, and with that burn-r solicitude which is produced, even in the2asts of the bravest, by the consciousness that; moment has arrived when nought remains butdo or die. Agitated but not confused by these(•lings, the drugger’s crew rowed furiously for-1 rd upon the Minerva’s larboard side. All wasi iet, until they reached within musket shot ofm 2 ship ; it was then that the night watch sungat a challenge. “ Dispatches from the fleet forS? captain,” was the fisherman’s answer. “ Keep—the captain is on shore,” replied the sentry,lirull on, pull on, ye devils,” whispered Mackay.elptand off, stand off, you there, or I’ll sink you,1 St. Maria,” reiterated the sentry; and the12threat having been disregarded, he fired his mus-iket into the boat, but without effect. “ Slap*alongside, my boys,” cried Tom Martin; “keepclear o’ her stinsails.” But Tom’s warning wastoo late ; for at this critical moment the drugger’s.mast and cordage ran foul of the Minerva’s swing¬ing-boom, which, as is usual in large ships, hadbeen rigged out for the purpose of mooring the1boats, and a considerable swell causing the Min¬erva to roil heavily, the difficulty of boardingeven without resistance was, in the situation inwhich they were now placed, rendered almost;insurmountable. Not a moment, however, was;lost. Martin, firing a pistol among a knot of.Spaniards, who had suddenly collected on the1gangway, seized hold of the Minerva’s “quiz;work,” and mounting the swinging boom, was;1instantly on board. He was speedily followed byseveral of his shipmates, who, without uttering aword, commenced an unresisting attack on the:astonished Spaniards. Meanwhile, the druggerhad been swung round by the swell, till she came;right alongside of the Minerva, and the remainderof the assauants easily scrambled on deck. The:conflict was bloody, but of brief duration, for soiinstantaneous had been the assault, and panic-struck as the Spaniards were by its temerity, theymade little or no resistance; and their unexpectedvisitors experienced little difficulty in driving;those who had escaped with life down the hatch¬way. The only man among them, indeed, whoidefended himself with true courage, was thaiMinerva’s boatswain. This brave fellow, who.!encountered Mackay, placed his back against the:1IS! bulwarks, and defended himself nobly, but havingrefused to ask for quarter, his antagonist \vas re¬luctantly compelled to cut him down.The hatches were now secured upon the multi-; tude below, the captives of the sixteen dare-devils4 above; and the closing of the hatches was accom-i panied by an information, that the slightest|1 attempt to alarm the fort or to recapture the ship«j would be followed by an immediate discharge of|j grape-shot through the decks.Here, then, was the Minerva, and her guardsifj and crew, fairly in the hands of our heroes, butit they had yet much to do before being absolutely9.1 secure of their prize. On looking around them,ll they discovered that not only were her topmastsn strucK, but that all her sails were unbent, and herqij foreyard lying across the forecastle—her deck be¬ll ing, at the same time, “lumbered up” with*1 g0°ds ready for disembarkation next morning,ijl In this state it was impossible that the vessel could(| sail an inch, and there was no time to be lost, forifl an entire quarter of an hour had elapsed sinceIjl they got on board, and at day-dawn the lortw would at once discover what had happened—so{| the Indian was dispatched to the cuddy, where| a number of the defeated seamen had taken re-i| fuge, to learn where the sails had been stowed—:i| they were below', and the rolling of several gunsij from the ship’s side to the middle of the deck,* with a few intimations, “ upon oath,” that theyi were ready for the work of destruction, soon in¬duced the bpaniards to hand the sails upon deck.These got, all hands were immediately at work.The topmasts were swayed away, as also the fore-14yard and topsail yards. In any other than themost desperate circumstances, they would havebeen altogether unequal to the fatigue which,exhausted as they were by previous labour andwant, they sustained in putting the vessel in suchtrim as to enable her to sail out of harbour. Atlength the sails were bent, but then there washardly enough of wind to make them flap againstthe masts. It was, in fact, and had been duringthe whole night, a perfect calm. The situationof the captors became every moment more peril¬ous.' Should morning dawn upon them wherethey lay, they were lost; for what defence couldthey make against a combined attack from thefort and from all the boats of Arica? Alreadyvoices were heard on the shore, and they dreadedthat an early visit to the ship would be the firstduty of ihe custom-house officers. They were inan agony of hope, fear, and anxiety. Daniel inthe den of lions was not more awkward or un¬comfortably situated ; and yet what could theydo? Why, without wind they could do nothing.To escape now' in their own drugger-boat ap-peaVed utterly impossible, for the lighter sailingboats of the Aricans would soon overtake andcapture her. At this most critical moment—nothalf an hour before daybreak—a slight breeze didspring up, and in an instant their hearts were asmuch elated as the instant before they had beencast down. The cables were immediately cut,the sails set, and the Minerva stood out to sea.The breeze was light, however, and before shewas beyond the range of the fort, the Aricans, totheir utter astonishment, for they could not coh-153 ecture what had happened, as no other vessel3 fvas in sight, saw the Minerva bearing brisklyv lown toward Moro-Blanco, a promontory on thei iouth side of the bay, several miles distant bomi|\rica. With the strong military force on board,ihey could not persuade themselves that therefxisted a possibility of her having been taken byn enemy. The most natural conclusion was,ihat the soldiers themselves had made a jointpeculation of her. The alarm was immediatelyiven in the fort, and throughout Arica; and in];ss than half an hour the harbour and beach■ere crowded with soldiers and sailors ready tombarkin pursuit of the fugitive ship, in the hopelat, as the morning advanced, the breeze wouldie away. The Minerva had just rounded theunt point of Moro-Blanco, when, as the An¬ns had anticipated, it became a dead calm, andle once more lay like a log upon the water,ere, then, were the captors again in a situationbt much better than that from which they hadrecently escaped. They were not to beunted, however, by this fresh difficulty, butdering the Spaniards on deck, by two at a time,ey pinioned them, and shipped them on boardle drugger, the ship’s launch, and small boats,serving only the smallest one for their own use.his accomplished, they pointed the guns to-ards the boats, ordering the Spaniards on shore,small number of rowers remained unbound, andreatening to blow them out of the water on theightest indication of a disposition to disobeyIders. They now took a snatch of refreshment,bich to their empty stomachs and exhausted16frames was true balm, and then hurried to pre¬pare for the attack, which, as a matter of course,was to be expected from Arica. They double-shotted the ship’s guns with grape, and unloosing .th ose on the starboard side, brought them overto the larboard, on which side, being that oppos-jite Arica. the attack was naturally to be antici¬pated. They soon smashed out rude port-holesin the bulwarks, and pointed the cannon,In the meantime, the crew of the Minerva,with the Spanish soldiers, reached Ariea, wherethe particulars of the exploit were immediatelymade known. Not a moment was lost in man¬ning the boats that could be collected. Theirnumber was not great, it is true, but they were,crowded with men, who, had they been all cairilbals, would have made but a sorry breakfast ofithe sixteen half-starved hands on board the Min¬erva. Having learnt the precise number ot the:Minerva’s captors, their exasperation at the auda¬city of the adventure w’as unbounded; but for sodaring an insult, they promised themselves thesatisfaction of making an immediate return ofmost ample vengeance. They were, in fact, sd<filled with resentment, and so anxious for re¬venge, that they neglected to be cautious. In thehurry and heat of the moment, they seemed only;to strive which should first reach the Minerva)by the shortest road. To men ot cooler passion)and calmer judgment, it would probably haveoccurred, that the safest, and in other respectsthe best mode of attack, would have been to dis¬perse the boats, and, by surrounding the vessel*be in a situation to board on all points at once.Had this been done, the handful of Englishmenmust inevitably have been cut to pieces. But theSpaniards did not condescend to consume timen concerting a plan of co-operation. They pull-:d on in a body, to devour, as they said, the de-!mted Englishmen. The -Englishmen, however,were prepared for them. As the fleet ol boatsapproached, they coolly took their aim with everyI tun on board. The boats advanced in a densextended line, each gun was brought to bear upon(articular parts of them, so that there should bei, 10 useless expenditure of powder and shot. Thei dinerva being a deep-vvaisted vessel, with a top-' ;allant forecastle and poop, the boat’s crew didlot discover the preparations that had been madeor their reception — so they continued pulling onntil they were within pistol shot of the ship’side. At that moment Mackay, to whom allyes on board the Minerva were now directed,very thing having been in perfect readiness, gavele signal to “ Are.” A shower of millstonesI jould not have been productive of more frightfuliilfiects. The moment before, the boats were in1 allant array, burthened with some hundreds ofHold hearts, inflamed with rage and revenge—lie next, it was as if the.besom of destruction hadaone over them. To use a homely simile, theUroadside of heavy grape made a commotionnong the boats similar to that which is producedan unexpected shot from a well-loaded fowlingece among a flock of ducks on the bosom of3; pond. Instead of one such shot, however, five-■| id-twenty double shots of grape and canisterere sent by deliberate aim among the boats of13Arica. and each shot struck its allotted portion ofthe line of attack. At the scene which presenteditself when the smoke cleared away, even thedrugger’s crew were appalled. The grape hadswept the entire line, carrying death and de¬struction before it; and the cannon’s roar was inian instant succeeded by the loud shrieks of thewounded and drowning. Several boats were:sunk, others were fast sinking, while those thatswam were soon overloaded by such as hadscrambled into them, or had been picked out ofthe water; some of the craft, indeed, were in thii(way swamped, and their crews suffered to perish,!for there existed no means of saving them. Allaround was covered with shattered planks, drift¬ing oars, and the still buoyant bodies of the kill¬ed, while here and there were seen woundedsoldiers, sailors, and citizens, engaged in an inef¬fectual struggle for life.The surviving boats soon made for Arica, andshe authorities there wisely resolved to make nofarther attempt to disturb the new masters of theM inerva. One of these, the same Tom Martinwhose name has been already mentioned, andfrom whom this narrative has been chiefly derived,was informed, some years afterwards, that theMinerva’s fatal broadside consigned to eternityupwards of 150 menNot in the least surprising incident in the for¬tunes of Mackay and his shipmates remains to berelated. After having deliberately put the ship:in proper sailing trim, they stood out to sea, inorder to catch the trade-wind, which is at the dis¬tance of 150 miles at that season from the north.1!1)1to-.Having reached this wind, they bore down forValparaiso, with the view of disposing of the shipand cargo, and of dividing their spoil. Off' Val¬paraiso lay a strong Spanish fleet, blockading theport; but of this circumstance our adventurerswere not aware, neither did they entertain theslightest suspicion that an obstacle of so formida¬ble a nature was at all likely to oppose itself tothe completion of an adventure already so nearlycrowned with success. At nightfall, previous tothe morning when they expected to reach Val¬paraiso, they were not sufficiently near that cityto distinguish the'fleet that lay in the offing; sothe wind being favourable, they skimmed over thewaves with hearts bounding in the pride of beingthe undisputed masters of so gallant a ship and allshe contained, little dreading the danger intowhich they were about to fall. On they went,however, and a dense fog coming on at day dawn,they sailed through the very thickest of the Span¬ish fleet, net only without either seeing or beingseen by a single ship, but without even sufferingthat annoyance which is produced by a conscious¬ness of being in a situation of extreme danger;and, before the fog cleared away, they lay safelymoored below' the fort of Valparaiso—so truedoes it seem to be that “fortune favours thebrave.”On the morning, they received the congratula¬tions of the governor of the city, by whom theM inerva was declared to be a lawful prize, and allValparaiso resounded with the praises of the cap-tors’ heroism.20The vessel and her cargo turned eut a prize ofgreat value, and the English tars soon found {themselves in the possession of what appeared tothem inexhaustible riches. They would not havebeen true British seamen, however, had they fhoarded up their wealth. No less characteristicof their profession was the reckless intrepiditywhich one and all of them had displayed, thanwas the profusion of their expenditure after get¬ting fairly on shore. Each got his riding horseand his sweetheart, of course. They gave balls,grand theatrical parties, and all sorts of sumptuous »entertainment; and when they met, as they oftendid, it was quite a common thing for them to toss ^up for a score of dollars, or to play “evens orodds” for a handful ora pocketful at a time. Ina few years afterwards, so effectual had been theexertions of some of them to get rid of theirmoney, that they again found themselves beforethe mast in Lord Cochrane’s fleet; while others,more provident, established themselves as respec- ,table and substantial citizens. Mackay becameone of the most considerable of the merchants and ,shipowners in Valparaiso, where, for ought thatis known to the contrary, he still lives in the en¬joyment of his wealth.A Clare for tSie Tootlaacli.'he toothache is rendered more distressing,ifot more acute, by there being no commiserationir the wretchedness it occasions. The belief iniis, and a keen recollection of bodily and mentaljff'erings, have produced the following littlearrative:—Some years ago, a tremendous tooth, with threenormous prongs, confined me to my room, and•ritated me to a state little short of distraction,•Vith my head tied up in a bandana handkerhief, boih hands on my afflicted jaw, I sat sway •ig my body to and fro, as if endeavouring t<>aim- a fractious infant; at other times I stampedi bout like a lunatic, or plunged about like a troi*/ miming.Bein<rOat length reduced to a statef exhaustion, 1 was anxious to retreat from al 1tercourse with the world; yet knock afternock at the door continued, as if only to increas iy already excessive nervous irritability. Man /f the persons I had no desire to see, but soirmere those interwoven with my professional pui -its, and 1 was compelled to lie at home. 1 ha 1account for my disconsolate appearance—toescribe my tormenting pangs, till I was wearycaking upon the subject. To all of my ferviddescriptions, 1 received the cold remark, and tl e|hilling advice, that it was only the toochach •,Ind that 1 had better have it extracted. At thisif me, the salivary glands were pouring their fluh !scj ito my mouth, the gastric juices were wastingS3their powers, and I was in a paroxysm of excru¬ciating anguish. It was astonishing how personscould calmly behold such a complication of mis¬eries. Nothing could be eaten; slops becameoffensive; the sight of a spoon frightful; and abasin revolting to a perpetual blister. Even theair could not be taken !—it was too much for thepetulance of my capricious tooth. On it raged, Ias if torments were its delight. In all my read- jing, I never met with any author but Burns whohad a proper idea of the toothach. He wished Ihis enemies to have it for a twelvemonth. Ohdear ! He must be more or less than man whocould endure this. He must despair and perish, jH ow true it is, that out of evil often some good &will spring; for while I was enduring this thumb¬screw on my gums—this gout in my jaw—thisrack of nerves—this destroyer of brains—-amidthis desolation I acquired much useful informa¬tion respecting the toothach. One friend in¬formed me that half the suffering was occasionedby nervous irritability ; for, if I went to a dentistwith a determination to have the tooth extracted,the moment I entered the door the tooth wouldcease to give me pain. He had proved it morejjthan once.Another friend requested me to be careful inselecting an operator on my tooth, for that hejwent to a dentist once, under anguish scarcely]endurable, to have a large double tooth like mine]extracted. He seated himself in a chair, and was]told to hold fast by the frame-work of the seat,]to prevent being hoisted up by the lever power in]the hands of the operator. All was properly ][‘arranged, the instrument in, and a tooth drawn;S3but, unfortunately, the fellow had taken the wrongtooth out, being the only one left to meet anotherin the opposite jaw, to enable my friend to masti¬cate his food. Bad as this was, he found it mustbe endured, because the tooth could not be re¬placed, and because a portio'n of the jawbone hadbeen torn away with the tooth. Miserable situ-lation 1 The pain redoubled its violence, and he3resolved to have the tormenting fang extracted.To prevent being tossed against the ceiling, he■ifixed his feet in leather straps attached to the lloor,land held firmly by the chair. In this determinedstate he made a round O of his mouth; the oper¬ator popped in the instrument, and u-g-h 1—a-h !it slipped. He felt as if a loaded waggon hadasset! over his head. The dentist apologized,paying, ‘ It was a common occurrence; gentlemenid not mind it much, because the second attemptwas always successful/ This my friend wasbliged to receive as a consolation, though defi-ient in every satisfactory particular. Down heat; made another round O ; in went the instru-ent. Oh!—ough !—gh 1 His head seemedeparated from his body, but only part of theooth, with one fang, was extracted. Again theenlist begged pardon ; ‘ hoped he should beExcused, as every one must have a beginning, inwhatever profession. He would fetch his master,who would punch out the remaining fangs in lessban a quarter of an hour 1” This was too much.The gentleman sickened at the idea, and left thehop in a worse state than he entered.I hoped to escape from further interruption byJeing denied, but my servant Betty told me ajentleman had been waiting some time in the par-S4lour, who said he would not detain me half aminute. He came—a friend I had not seen foryears. He sympathized with me, while I brieflytold how sadly I was afflicted.‘ My dear friend,* exclaimed he, ‘ I can cureyou in ten minutes.’‘ How ? How ?’ inquired I; £ do it in pity ?’‘Instantly,’ said he. ‘Betty,’ have you any jalum ?’ I‘ Yes.’‘ Bring it, and some common salt.”They were produced ; my friend pulverizedthem, mixed them in equal quantities ; then weta small piece of cotton, causing the mixed powderto adhere, and placed it in my hollow tooth.‘ There,’ said he, ‘ if that do not cure you, Iwill forfeit my head. You may tell this in Gath,and publish it in the streets of Aschalon; theremedy is infallible.*It was as he predicted. On the introduction!of the mixed alum and salt, I experienced a sen¬sation of coldness, which gradually subsided, andwith it the torment of the toothach.Though I thus learnt something from mv suf-ferings, and entertain a hope that what 1 learnt,,being thus published, will be of service to myfellow creatures, I am far from believing that anyuniversal remedy has yet been discovered for thisafflicting malady. It would almost appear, hvjdeed, that instead of there being any general curelor the toothach, every body would require tchave his own cure; for though certain prepara¬tions have been found effectual in certain cases,nothing is more common than to find these fai.when applied to others.