T H ETAR’S CONQUEST;O R, T H EYounQ Sailors Ramble.T<t -A’hivh are adtlcj.The TAKING of MARTINICO.BILLY AND SUSAN’S PARTINGL O V E in LOW LIE E,iNancy’s Complaint for the Lofs cf her Sailor.IB R A W J O II N NY B U T E.I FEAR YOUR DISDAIN.( > )• i X —*.jc. «r « #.^r« #: ^rr • *■ j\^-» *^ » crz « *■ — :? v ^ -rr-_ * rtr ft #^rr -# ,%..r gTHE T A R ’ S CON ON E S T.A Jc5't Thc‘< ^'3r» b|lj 3 l*ule wiii’e fince,/~\ As drunk as a beggar, ps bold #.-s a prince, jFell foul of an alt lioufe, and thought it a Gn,To pafs without calling, fo went roaring in,* Derry down, down, hey dtrry down.He fearce had far doe rt, v -hen the landlord erne hy (With p;;sMjng and beef, which attracted his eye ;^ -m the iTtaft-head, a failor, Jack leapt from his placeAnd grafping his trudge 1, gave orders for chace. etci'fov it happ'ned together ten Frenchmen were metRefolvif.g foup maigre and frogs to fc.rget :Convinc’d of their error,, they order’d a feaft,rl’o be ferv’d and dieiVd up,in the true Engltlh tafte.* At the heels of the landlord. Jack quickly appear*;Ajni made the *oofa echo with three firitiih cheers,'i hen fat hitnfelf down, without any debate, (etc.Anri whipt1 his old chew in his next neighbour’s plate.No fooner •■fas Jack pofk iVd of a place,Then thinking it uccdlefs to wait for the grace,• In foitc of in- !r wldipers, the Rout Eritiidi Thief,Fir it grafped the pudding, then boarded the beef. etc.Now nothing could eqtosl the Frenchmens furprize,Thejflhruhfc witbthetr (botildert. ft Rar’d with their eyes,From one went an ah ! from another a hem ! (etc*They look’d at their landlord, tiieir landlord at them*Cue more Sold than the reft, by his brethren’s advice,Ma’de a fnefilting attempt to come in for a Rico,But Jack cut bis lingers and gave him a check ! (e*c.Crying.down with your arms,or I’ll foon clear thedeck.At length to revenge, nil the Frenchmen unite,F.ach feiz’d on his knife, and prepaid for a fight,Of quarters quoth Jtck, I would not have you think,SoTinhc you foup bibbers, ftrike, ftritce, or you fink.V .1 7(1 The landlord beholding, spproacl.’d from afar,rind fneakiiiii’ behind, f iz’d the bands of the tartd've got him, fays he, bat he fcarct. tout! fiiy niorCjs’re he found his dull p ite, wIkk: his feet were before,I Then frowning, Jac!r flourifh’d his tniP y old .‘lick,jiod laid on Ills broadlides, fo fall a:.d io thick i —fc fo well play'd his part, in a minute that foyr,j.ay fprauiing along with their holt on t he £oor etc.il The reit b-. ing difmay’d at their c.otintrymcn • fate,ijlach fearing Jack's Hick wotdd alight on his pate,|j oon yitldeu rM:n victor, and lord of the mw.,i.Viih humble iutreaty to bury their (lain, &cI To wthio.h he contented, but order’d that they,I'or the beef, and the pudding, and porter Should pay,o faying, he Aagger'd r.way to Iris wench,till whopping Staying, down, down with the Freech,Derry down, down, hey derry down.-: The SIEGE and T AKING of MAKTINICO.1 . ' " . ‘OTiianks be to Providence that made njto fmile,We can boaft of conquering the French atWe have ta’en Pondicheny hi the bay of Bengal,iput now Martinico is tiic bed of them all.We have taken Cap Briton, b.fidts that, Quebec,1An<d likewife Memtreal it Hands dofe by the LakesWe have taken Fort St. Lucta it (lands by Senegal,But now Martinino is the bell of them all,Brave Moi.kton comiriairded our ferrccs on fltove.And Rodney on the feas made his cannons to martWe made them to fu'render for all their great boalts,And now they liment Martiaico is loll.Our brave Britiih heroes none can them w’thftarrd,jVVher. bravely commanded they’ll fight heart St har-d;Vkhen bullets were a flying, O we boldly rnaich’d on,And tin- make3 us ling Mzitinico’s our otvu.Oar brave Uigli’and as fw'ft as a roe.They fcour’d thvo’ the woods for to bring on th' ir foe;they fought with theirbroad f.vordsSt'aid bythegna,And this was the way Martinico was won,Our (hips richly laden, come failing along fhore,With fin? filks and fngars and many things more,We will fo be enrich d with this prod urn fo gay, ,And this makes me ling Martinico for ay.We have taken the Havjnnah, believe me it’s true,It lies in large Cuba, next door to Peru :We have tak^n many iflands and many large towns,At la 11 the Manillas and their brave galleonsGod fave George our King, & Charlotte our Queen,And fend them a long and a profperous reign,-And all our brave Scotchmen that’s honeft and true.With the brave highland Ladswiththeirbonnetsfo blue.BILLY and SUSAN’S PARTING.SW E E T Sofan 1 am come to take my leave,my deareli dear don’t figh or grieve ;A letter, love, of abfence i’ve receiv’d,therefore my dcaretl Sufan be not griev’d.For on the main I will maintain,King George’s right with fveord in hand ;My blood I’ll Ij.'ili before France (hould have her will,ill far the honour of Old England,How can 1 hear fuch killing, killing news,without a flood of melting tears ?Crm l the fnrvice of the fi.3 refufe ?it finks r, terror to my tender years.Far now my grief is pnfi. relief,and ] with grief do you adore,Vy h‘-art (hall bicak all for your fake,act! I SiaU dit and rtever fee you mor*. ■IMy dtarefl d>*ar you have no caufe to feaV,the hardfhipa of any woman's cafe,There's ProvidMire all on the raging main,in battie wc’ie as fafe as here at e?fe.For in Hymen's bands, thus far from lands,perhaps may land a voting virgin's friend :i But let me die, 1 had rather thee than f,I fhou’d like to tell the ftory of their ends.My deareft d.jar, you need not to entertain,the hardfttips that we go through on board tYour tender prdlat it will not be pleafed,our ihip it ftldom dainties does affoid.p;We watcli ou•• guard, our lodging’s hard,we are dtbarr’J of beds of down :Si For the raging fea is not a place of cafe,it is only fit for heroes of renown.i J With kiffer. fweet and folemn vow:. I’ll make,to you who are my turtle dove ;I 1’il venture for my King and Country’* fake,much rather yet than Hay with you my love.i So farewd your charms, thefe loud alarms,thofe warlike alarms call me away ;Farewcl, adieu, thofe charms 1 will renew,when i return, but now i cannot fte.y.LOVE IN LOW L ! F E.Ti/^Oung Joekty he courted fweet Maggy the fair,The lafs fhe was lovely, the focet debonair;They liugg’d, & th y cuddl’d, & tarlk’d with their eye®,j And look’d, as ail lovers do, wonderful wife,• " * *A for*nigbt war fprnt e’er dear Maggy came too,For mahlens a decency keep when th.y woo,At length die confcti'ed, and made him a vow,And Jockey he give, for her jointer, hia cow.'.( fi.)They pannellM their dobbins, and went to the fair,fitrl! and fondlirg until they came there ;They call’d on the Par ton, and by him were wed,And Ma^y ihe took her dear jockey to bed.They (laid there a week as the neighbours al! fay ;And none was to happy and gamifome as they ;Tlien home.they return'd, hut retuni’d ir.oft. unkind,For Jockey rode on, and left Maggy behindSurpris'd at this treatment, the cry’s. Gaffer Jock,Pray what is tire reafon that Maggy you mock’d ?<,)itoth he, Goofe come! why you now are my bride,And when voik are wed, they let fooling afide.He took home his Maggy good comWd to ’earn,Who mu fil’d up the hmife,while he thatch’d tlaeoidbarn,They laid in a itoek for the ca/es tirat enfue.And now lire as man and wife ufually do.   ■   Nancy's Complaint for the lofs of her Sailar.N' Para clear chryfial llream,where fweet flow’rs doI beheld a young damfe’ in borrow & woe, (grow,Grieving for her failor fne dH fo adore,Put fire cry'd, 't fs all in vain, I fhnll ne’er fee him more.Ch Dcje&ed 1 .wander fo fad and forlorn,J stmoft me the day that ever 1 was borfi,Knrely no one is fo wretched as me,Mv bo ny young failor was loti on the tea.When, firll he did leave me 'twas with an aching heart,Guile loath then we were with csch other to part;’ f was with brave Milton’s fleet my bve be ftt fail,Put in trial fierce engagement my failor was flain.Dej tiled 1 wander fo fad and forlorn, etc.T fhall never forget, of Augutt the firfl .day,The day my love loft hia life in that dreadful tray.He was the flmfl young lad that e'er my eyes did fee,But a fatal (hot came and his life took away,peje&id 1 wander fo fad and forlorn, etc.( 7 )'Pwas by a letter this rlamfel h’1',! rectivhThat fhe koew licr lore of hi.vfxr/ vt>as beruavM,She fcarhe cotiltl rearl the contttfts; her eyes with tearsHer heart it was filled with forrow and woe, (did flow,'Dejected i watidei- fo fad and forlorn, tie.Simpath.fe then with me you yotiutr fafTes fo brave,A n«J drop a Sol tear on my love’s1 watery grave.You who are tond of a failor that plow: on the main,Tn N'-lfori’s engagement my failor Was (lainDtjeded 1 wander fo fad and forlorn, etc.——<>. i ■B R A W JOHNNY B TJ T E.TUNE—FLOWERS OF EDINBURGH.BR A W Johnny Bute was a bonny meikle man,t. ae Scotland came with his broad fwnrd in hand,He crmc at the head of a braw bonny Clan,wb.) th,s mtikle d—1 could his mufic withftacd !He lesoiitd fo neat, ami he ki.T.d io iwcei,that a dame of renown foon gave ear to his fuit,Then his pipe he lugg’.l out, and you need not doubt*but in conceit he play’d with tur German flute.Otioth he bonny laflic, your fluit gangs well,and keeps good time with my bagpipes fo clear ;Sic mufic as this will ftirtd.y never fail,but in time to encore with an Englifh tar.What nriiiiic fo fweet, or harmony fj neat,as the bagpipes, when job.’! with the German flute,Then tinning up her eyes the hiythfomc dame replies,when the bagp pcs plays with braw Johnny Buie.Play on bonny lad, for I’ve got great ftore of gold,your begs fliai! be fill’d, while your pipes you do play.But you ne’erfba’i return to a climate fo cold,while your rifles are fo fwtet, & warmer than May.Quoth be, m vtr moflru, for 1 never lhall return,while lure I can tafle of the golden fruit,Then his pipes Gil he flay’d &. another bit he play’din concert fo fweet with her German flute.^ ( 8 )Novr, ye EngKfh fools, you no more dare pretenda mufic to vie with my bonny bij> hfundman,Uo more fhall the lafT^ a of England commend,the brave merry jigg to compart w;th rny John ;For r» merry flvaiiJ, which enlivens every vein,wha the d—1 with a Scot dare tlifpnte ;But his bagpipes alone, has too much of the drone*and, of need mu ft be join’d with t!.s German ftu'C.Come on, bonny lads, with courage advance,your poor empty ferips and your wallets difown,johnny Butt bears the bell, and he lifts up the dance,at the grand mafquerade at the Thiftle and Crown,W iiere there’s fwectmeatE 3c wine-to invite you to dine, |your hunger aftuage, and your fpirits recruit,While moil fofc to the ear, hark the bagpipes fo clear,in confort refound with the German flute.A brave Englilh fiddle •occurs to my llrein,a better never was play’d on before.The French horn, at a diftance, will join it amain,and the Spaniih guitar has play’d it before ;But wo to the man who’d be join'd to the band,the fiddle would be broke* & rhe fiddltftick to boot.For an Englifhman boro woo’d defpife a French horn,tho’ his ear wou’d be tickl’d with the German flute.I FEAR YOUR DISDAINWH I L E I sm pleading your beauty to gain,my heart 'tis a bleeding, l fear your difdaiu,O lovely dear creature, divine ia each featu.c,let not your faithful adore you in vain,O where lhall I wander, defpairing with grief?Wat to ydu dear Chloe, to give me relief;All forrows they fly me, when you do but nigh me,of all the world's pleafure, ’to. you are the chief.GUfgow, i’rmtej by J* Sc M. Rsbertfsa, SaUmarket, iSai.