THE HISTORYOFDu ncan Campbell,- # ' rAXD HISDOG, OSCAR.FROM HOGG'S EVENING TALES.GLASGOW:Pujjlifhed by J. Lumsden & Son.18^2,DUNCAN CAMPBELL.pDuncan Campbell came from the Highlands, when|jfix years of age, to live with an old maiden aunt in |Edinburgh, and attend the school His mother waa idead : but his father had supplied he» place, by mar ¬rying his house keeper. Duncan did not trouble him-felf about these matters, nor' indeed about anyother matters, fave a black foal of his fathers’,and a large sagacious colley, named Ofcar, whichbelonged to one of the shepherds. ' here being' tno other boy. save Duncan, about the hou e. Oscar andhe were constant companions —With h’s garter tiedround Oscar’s neck, and a piece of deal tied to his bigbushy tail, Duncan would often lead him about thegreen, pleased with the idea that he was conducting ahorse and cart. Oscar submitted to all this with greatcheerfulness, but whenever Duncan mounted to rideon him, he found means instantly to unhorse him,either by galloping, or rolling himself on the green. ,When Duncan threatened him, he looked submiflivel (i"and licked his face and hands; when he corrected hiraiji^)yith the whip, he cowered at his fott ; — matters werecsoon oiade up Oscar would lodge nowhere duringjthe night, but ?t the door of the room wher. his young]:friend slept, and ^oe be to the man or woman who ven-ttured to enter in at untimely hours.When Duncan left his native home, he thought not:of his father, nor any of the servants. He was fond!ef the ride, and fome fupposed that he even scarcelythought of the black foal s but when he faw Ofcaratanding looking him ruefully in the fr*e, the tears) iimmediately blinded both his eyes He caught him :around the neck, hugged and kifsed him.— ‘Good!:b’ye Ofcar,” said he blubbering ; “ Good b’ye, God ;blefs you, my dear Ofcer Duncan mounted beforea fervant, and rode away^-Ofcar ftill followed at adiiiance, until he reached the top of the hill—he thenfat down and howled. Duncan cried till his little heartwas like to burll—“ What ails you?” said the fer*'.nt,“ 1 will never see my poor honest Oscar, again,” faidDuncan, “an* my heart canna bide it.”Duncan (laid a year in Edinburgh, but he did notmake great progress in learning. He did not approvehighly of attending the fchool, and his aunt was tooindulgent to compel his attendance. She giew ex¬tremely ill one day—the maids kept constantly by her,and never regarded Duncan He was an additionalcharge to them, and they never loved him, bur ufedhim harlhly. ■ It was now with great difficulty that hecould obtain either meat or drink. In a few days af¬ter his aunt was taken ill fhe died.—All was in con-fufion, and poor Duncan was like to perifh with hun¬ger he could find no perfon in the house ; but hear¬ing a noife in his aunt's chamber, he went in, and be¬held them drtffing the corpse of his kmi relation :—it was enough —Dunoan was horrified beyond whatmortal breatt was able to endure;—he hailed downthe flair, and ran along the High Street, and SouthBridge, as fast as his feet could carry him, crying in-crffentlv all the way. Hec would not have enteredthat house again, it the wotld had been offered him asa reward Some people Hopped him, in order to *lkwhat was the roau-r, hut he could only answer themby exclaiming “ Oh, dear! Oh. dear !” and strugglingtill he got free, held on his course, carelefs whether hewent, provided he got far enough from the horridscene he had fo lately witnefsed. Some have fup-poied, and 1 believe Duncan has been heard to con¬fess, that he then imagined he he was running for theHighlands, but miftook the direction. However thatwas, he continued his course until he came t» a place4where two ways met, a little (outh of Grange Toll.' Here he sat down, and his frenzied passion fubfidedinto a soft melancholy ;—he cried no more, but fob¬bed excessively : fixed his eyes on the ground, andmade feme strokes in the dust with his finger.A sight just then appeared, which somewhat cheer¬ed, c: at least interested his heavy and forlorn heart—it was a large drove of Highland cattle- They werethe only creatures like acquaintances that Duncan hadfeen for a twelvemonth, and a tender feeling of joy,mixed with regret, thrilled his heart at the fight oftheir white horns and broad dew-laps As the vanpafsed him, he thought their looks were particularlygruff and sullen ; he soon perceived the cause, theywere all in the hands of Englishmen : poor exiles likehimself;—going far away to be killed and eaten, andwould never see the Highland hills again !When they were all gone by, Duncan looked afterthem, and wept anew ; but his attention was suddenlycalled away to something that foftly touched his feet;—he looked hastily about — it was a poor hungry lamedog,'squatted on the ground, licking his feet, andmanifesting the most extravagant joy. Gracious Hea¬ven! it was his own byloved and faithful Oscar! starved,emaciated, and so crippled, that he was scarcely ableto walk 1 He was now doomed to be the slave of aYorkshire peasant, {who, it seems, had either boughtor stolen him at Falkirk) the generosity and benevo¬lence of whole feelings were as interior to thofe of Os¬car as Oscar was inferior to him in strength andpower. It is impossible to conceive a more tendermeeiing than this was; but Duncan soon observedthat hunger and misery were painted in his fiiend'slooks, which again pierced 'his heart wtih feelings un-felt before “ i have not a crumb to give you, mypoor Olcar !” faid be—•* 1 have not a crumb to eatmyfelf, but 1 am not so ill as you are." i he peafant,•whittled aloud. Oscar well knew the sound, andclinging to the boy’s bofom, leaned his head upon hi#thigh, and looked in his face, as if saying, “ O Dun¬can, protect me from y on ruffian.” The whittle wasrepeated, accompanied by a loud and furly call. Os¬car trembled, but fearing to difobey, he limped awayreluctantly after his unfeeling matter, who obfervinghim to linger and look back, imagined he wanted toeffect his efcape, and came running back to meet him,Oscar cowered to the earth in the moft fubmiffive andimploring manner, but the peafant laid hold of him bythe ear. and uttering many imprecations, ftruck himwith a thick ftaff till he lay senselefs at his feet.Eveiy poffible circumttance feemcd combined towound the feelings of poor Duncan, but this unmerit¬ed barbarity ihocked him moft of all. He hatted tothe fcene of action, weeping bitterly, and telling theman that he was a cruel brute, and that if ever hehimselt grew a big man, he would certainly kill him.He held up his favourite’s head J at he might recoverhis breath, and the man knowing thathe could do littlewithout his dog, waited patiently to see what wouldbe the iffue The animal recovered, and Hammeredaway at the heels of his tyrant, without daring to lookbehind him, Duncan flood ftdlf but kept his eyeseagerly fixed upon Osear, and the farther he wentfrom him, the more ftrong his defire grew to followhim. He looked the other way, but all there was tohim a blank —he had no defirs to ftand where he was,fo he follow'ed Oscar and the drove of cattle.The cattle were weary and went flowly, and Dun¬can, getting a little goad in his hand, affifted the mengreatly in driving them One of the drivers gave hima penny, and another gave him twopence : and thelad who had the charge of the drove, obferving howactive and pliable he was, and how far he had accom¬panied him on the way, gave him ttxpence ; this wasa treasure to Duncan, who, being extremely hungry,o’bought thrfc penny rolls, as he pasefd through a town:cue of thefe he ate hinaself, another he gave to Ofcar:and the third he carried below his arm, in case of fur¬ther neceflity. He drove all the day, and at nightthe cattle rested upon a height, which, by his descrip¬tion, hems to have been that between Gala Waterand Middleton. Duncan went off at a fide in com¬pany with Oscar, to eat his roll, and taking shelterbehind an old earthen w?ll, they shared their dry mealmost lovingly between them Ere it was quitefinished, Duncan being fatigued, dropped into a pro¬found slumber, out of which he did not awake untilthe next morning was far advanced. Englishmen,cattle, and Oscar all were gone. Duncan fouudhim-fell alone on a wild height, in what country or kingdomhe knew not. lie sat for some time in a callous stup¬or, rubbing his eyes and scratching his head, hutquite irresolute what was further necessary for him todo, until he was agreeably surprised by the arrival ofOscar, who (though k ■ had gone at his master’s cal!in the morning) had found means to escape and feckthe retreat of his young friend and benefactor Dun¬can, without rcfi cting-on the confequence, rejoicedin the event, and thought of nothing else than further¬ing his escape from the ruthlefs tyrant who nowclaimed him For this purpofe he thought it wouldbe best to leave the road, and accordingly he crofsedit, in order to go over a waste moor to the westward.He had not got forty paces from. '• e road, until hebeheld the enraged Englishman running towards him^without !iis coat, and having his staff heaved over hisshoulder. Duncan’s heart fainted within him, know,ing it was all ovei with Ofcar, and most likely w ithhimself. The peafant seemed not to have observedthem, as he was running, and rather looking the otherway ; and as Duncan quickly lost fight of him inahollow place that lay between them, he crept into abush of heath and took Ofcar in his bosom : theibe man had observed from whence the dog ftarted icthe morning, and hafted to the place, expecting tofind him sleeping beyond the old earthen dike ; hefound the nest, but the birds were flown he calledaloud ; Oscar trembled and clung to Duncan’s breast;Duncan peeped through his purple covert like a heath-cock on his native waste, and again beheld the ruffiancoming straight towards them, with his staff itill heav¬ed, and fury in his looks;—when he came within afew yards he bellowed out; “ Ofcar, yho, yho!”Oscar quaked, and (till clung closer to Duncan’s breast:Duncan almoft funk in the earth ; “ D—-r-n him,”faid the Englishman, “if l had a hold of him I shouldmake both him and the little thievifli rafcal dear at afmall price ; they cannot be far gone—1 think I hearthem;” he then ftood liftening, but at thatnnllant afarmer came up on horfeback. and having heard himcall, afked him if he had lost his dog ? The peasantanfwered in the affirmative, and added, that a black¬guard boy had stolen him. The farmer faid that hemet a boy with a dog about a mile forward. Duringthis dialogue, the farmer s dog came up to Duncan’sden,—itnelled upon him, then upon Ofcar —cockedhis tail, walked round them gro vling, and then be¬haved in a very improper and uncivil manner to Dun¬can, who took all patiently, uncertain whether he wasyet difcovercd But fo intent was the fellow uponthe farmer ’s intelligence, that he took no notice,of thedifeovtry made by the dog, but ran off without look¬ing over his fhoulder.Duncan felt this a deliverance fo great, that all h’sother dillrefses vaniihed ; and as foon as the man wasof his fight, he arofe from his covert and ran overthe moor, and ere it was long, came to a (hepherd’shouse, where he got fome whey and bread for hisbreakfaft, which he thought the beft meat he had evertaft'-d. yet (hared it with Ofcar.Though 1 had his hiflory (torn his own mouth, yetthere is a fpace here which it is impoflible to relatewith any degree of distinctness or interest. He was avagabond boy, without any fixed habitation, and wan¬dering about Herriot Moor, from one farm-iiouse toanother, for the space of a year; flaying from oneto twentv ni. hts in each houfe, accordirig as he foundthe people kind to him, He seldom resented anyindignity offered to himself, but whoever insulted Os¬car, or off ^ any obfervatipns on the impropriety oftheir frienc8i..p lofl Duncan’s company next morning,He ftaid feveral months at a place called Dewar, whichhe faid » as haunted by the ghoft of a piptr ;—thatpiper had hern murdered there many years before, ina manner fomewhat myfterious, or at lead unaccounta¬ble ; and there was fcarcely a night on which he wassuppose < either to be feen or beard about the houfe.Duncan flept in the cow houfe, and was terribly ha¬rass, d by the } i,nr, he often heard him fcratching aboutthe rafters, and sometimes he would groan like a ir.audying, or a cow that was choaked in the band ; but atlength he faw him at his side one night, which fo dif-composed him that he was obliged to leave the place,after being ill for many days. 1 shall give this (loryin Duncan’s own words, which I have often heard himrepeat without any variation.“ f had been driving some young cattle to the heigtsof Willenslie—it grew late before 1 got home.— 1 wasthinking, aad thinking, how cruel it was to kill thepoor piper ! to cut out his tongue, and flab him inthe back 1 thought it was no wonder that his ghofttook it extremely ill; when, all on a hidden, I per¬ceived a light before me; — 1 thought the wand in myhand was all on fire, and threw it away, but 1 perceiv¬ed the light glide sloiyly by my right foot, and burnbehind me;— 1 was nothing afraid, and turned aboutto look at the light, and there 1 saw the piper, whowas standing hard at my back, and when I turnedround, be looked me in the face ” “ What was helike, Duncan ?” “ He was like a dead body ! but 1got a shoit view of him ; for that moment all aroundme grew dark as a pit !—1 tried to run, but furdtpowerless to the earth, and lay in a kind of dream, Ido not know how long: when 1 came to myself, 1 gotup, and endeavoured to run, but fell to the groundevery two steps. 1 was not a hundred yards from thehouse, and I am fure I fell upwards of a hundredtimes. Next day I was in a high fever: the servantsmade me a little bed in the kitchen, to which 1 wasconfined by illness many days, during which time Isuffered the most dreadful agonies by night, alwaysimagining the piper to be standing over me on the oneside or the other. As foon as I was able to walk, Ileft Dewar, and for a long time durst neither sleepalone during the night, nor stay by myself in the day¬time.”The superstitious ideas impressed upon Duncan’smind by this unfortunate encounter with the ghost ofthe piper, feern never to have been eradicated; a stronginstance of the power of early impressions, and a warn¬ing how much caution is necessary in modelling theconceptions of the young and tender mind, for of allmen 1 ever knew, he is the most afraid of meetingwith apparitions- So deeply is his imagination taintedwith this startling illusion, that even the calm disqui¬sitions of reafan have proved quite inadequate to thetask of dispelling it. Whenever it wears late, he is ,always on the look-out for these ideal beings, keepinga jealous eye upon every bush and brake, in case theyshould be lurking behind them, ready to fly out andfurprife him every moment ; and the approach of aperfon in the dark, or any fudden noise, always de¬prives him of the power of fpetch for some time.After l»aving Dewar, he again wandered about fora few weeks ; and it appears that his youth, beauty,and peculiarly destitute situation, together with hisfrendship for his faithful Oscar, had interested the10fnost part of the country people in his behalf, for hewas generally treated with kindness He knew hisfather’s name, and the name of his house; but as noneof the people he visited had ever before heard of eitht rthe one or the other, they gave themselves no troubleabout the matter.He ftaid nearly two years in a place he called Cow*haur, till a wretch, with whom he flept, (truck andabufed him one day. Duncan, in a rage, flew to theloft, and cut all his Sunday hat, fltoes, and coat, inpieces; and, not daring to abide the ccnfequenccs,decamped that night.He wandered about for fame time longer, amongthe farmers of Tweed and Yarrow; but this life wasnow become exceedingly disagreeable to him. Hedurst not sleep by himself, and the fervants did notalways choose that a vagrant boy and his great dogfhould sleep with them.It was on a rainy night, at the clofe of harvest thatDuncan came to my father’s houfe. 1 remember allthe circumstances as well as the transactions of yes-terday The whole of his clothing consisted only ofone black coat, which, having been made for a fullgrown man, hung fairly to his heels; the hair of hishead was rouijh, curled, and weather beaten ; but hisface was ruddy and beautiful, bespeaking a healthybody, and a fenlible feeling heart. Oscar was flillnearly as large as himself, had the colour of a fox,with a white ftripe down his face, and a ring of thefame colour around his neck, and was the moft beau¬tiful colley 1 have ever feen My heart was knit toDuncan at the firft fight, and I wept for joy when Ifaw my parents fo kind to him. My mother in par.ticular, could scarcely do anything else than conveifewitV Duncan for feveral days. 1 was always of theparty, and listened with wonder and admiration ; butoften havethefe adventures been repeated to me. Myparents, who foon feeraed to feel the same concern for11i h*n as If he had been their e wa fon, clothed him iablue diugget, and bought him a fmart little Highland■ bonnet; in which dress he looked so charming, that Iii would not let them have peace, until I got one of the;; fame, indeed, all that Duncan said or did was to meI a pattern, for I lov-d him as my own life. I was, atmy own request, which he persuaded me to Urge, per-mitted to be his bed-fellow, and many a happy nightand day did 1 fpend with Duncan and Oscar.As far as l remember, we felt no privation of anykind, and would have been completely happy, if it hadnot been for the fear of.spirits. When the converfa-tion chanced to turn upon the Piper of Dewar, thei Maid ol Ploia, or the Pedlar of Thiilestane Mill, often' have we lain with the bed clothes drawn over our headsuntil nearly fuffocated. We loved the fairies aud the:ij| brownies, and even felt a little partiality for the wer-li maids, on account of their beauty and charming songs;i we were a little jealous of the water kelpies, and al-l ways kept abof from the tfightSdfttf^'JOls. We ha tedI the devil most heartily, but w r were not much afraidI of him ; but a ghost ! oh, dreadful ! t!ie names ghost,spirit, or appsrition, sounded in our ears like the knellof destruct oo, and our hearts sui k within us as ifpierced by ti e cold icy shaft of death. Duncan herd¬ed my father’s cows all the fummer— fo did I—we. could not live asunder. We grew fishers so eitperC,:i that the speckled trout, with alfhisart, could not elude:> our machinations ; we fo'ccd him from his watery cove,y admired the beautiful shades and purple drops thati wue painted on his sleeky sides, and forthwith addedti him io our number, without reluctance. We assailedJ tlye habitativu of the wild bee, and rifled all her accu-i. mulated Iweets, though not without, encountering themost determined resistance My father’s meadowsabounded with hives; they were almost in every swath— in every hillock When the [warm was large, theywould beat at oil’, day after day. la all these despe-12rate engagements. Ofcar came to our affiftance, andjprovided that none of the enemy make a lodgementin his lower defiles, he was always the lafl combatant olour party on the field 1 do not remember of ever be.ing so much diverted by any scene 1 ever wicnestedor laughing as immoderately as 1 have done, at feeingOscar involved in a moving cloud of wild bees, wheeling, soaping on all sides, and (baking his ears incesfantly.The fagacity which this animal pofTefied is almoftjincredible, while his undaunted fpfrit and generofityit would do honour to every fervant of our own speciestto copy. Twice did he fave his maker’s life : at onetime when attacked by a furious bull, and at anothertime when he fell from behind my father, off a horseinto a flooded river. Olcar had juft fwiramed acrofs,hut inftantly plunged in a f cond time to !us mafter’srefcue. He firft, got hold of his bonnet, but thating off, he quitted it, and again catching hifc by thecoat, brought ifim to the fide, where my father reach,ed him He waked Duncan at a certain hour everymorning, and would frequently turn the cows of hisown will, when he observed them wrong. If Duncandropped his knife, or guy other fmall article, he wouldfeten it along in his mouth; and if sent back for a lostthing, would infallibly find it. When fixteen yearsof age, after being unwell for fcveral days, he died onenight below his mafter’s bed. On the evening before,when Duncan came in from the plough, he came froml.is hiding-place, wagged his tail, licked Duncan’sband, and returned to his death-bed. Duncan end Llamented him with unfeigned forrow, buried him be¬low the old rowan tree at the back of ray father’s gar¬den, placing a square (lone at his head, which was (till(landing the laft time I was there. With great labour,wc composed an epitaph between us, which was oncecarved on that (lone; the metre was good, but thestone was sg hard, and the engraving fp faint, that the13characters, like those of our early joys, are long agodefaced and extinct.Often have I heard my mother relate with enthusiasm,the manner in which fhe and my father firfl discover¬ed the dawnings of gpodness and facility of conceptionin Duncan’s mind, though, 1 confefs, dearly as 1 lovedhim, these circumstances escaped my observation ItWas my father’s invariable custom to pray with the fa¬mily every night before they retired to rest, to thankthe Almighty for his kindness to them during the by¬gone day, and to beg his protection through the darkand silent watches of the n'ght. I need not informany of my readers, that that amiable duty, consided insinging a few ftanzas of a psalm, in which all the familyjoined their voices with my father’s, so that the doubleoctaves of the various ages tad fexes swelled to thesimple conce'rt. He then ivad a chapter from theBible, going draight on from beginning to end of theBcriptuics. T: c praye.r concluded the devotions ofegch evening, in which the downfall of Antichrid wasalways strenuously urged, the ministers of the Gospelremembered, nor was any friend or neighbour in dis-tiefs forgot.At one time, the year following, my father, in thecourse of his evening devotions, had reached the19th chapter of the hook of Judges; when he beganreading it, Duncan was seated on the other side ofthe house, but ere it was half done, he had ftolen upclose to my father’s elbow, “ Consider of it,take ad¬vice, speak your mind,” fair! my father, and elofed thebock “Go on, goon if you please, Sir,” faid Duncan —“ go on, and let us hear what they said about it.” Myfather lacked sternly in Dwncan’s face, but seeing himahafhed on account of his hady breach of decency,without uttering a word, he again opened the Bible,and read the 20th chapter thioughout, notwithdandingot its greaf length, Next day Duncan was walkingabout with the Bible below his arm; begging of every14body to read it to him a^ain and again. This incidentproduced a conversation between my parents, on theexpences and utility of education : the consequenceof which was. that the week following. Lluncan and Iwere sent to the parish school, and began at the sameinstant to the study of that most important and funda¬mental branch <-f literature, the A, B, C; but mysister Mary, who was older than I, was already au ac¬curate and elegant readerThis reminds me of another anecdote of Duncan,with regard to family worship, which f have oftenheard related, and which f myself may well remember.My father happening to be absent over night at a fair,when the usual time of worship arrived my motherdesired a lad, one of the servants, to act as chaplainfor that night: the lad declined it, and slunk away tohis bed. My mother testified her regret that weshould all he obliged to go prayerless to our beds torthat night, observing that she did not remember thetime when it had so happened before. Duncan fatdhe.thought we might contrive to manage it amongst us,and instantly proposed to sing the psalm and pray, ifMary would read the chapter. I o tin’s my motherwith some hesitation agreed, remarking, that if he pray¬ed as he could, with a pure heart, his jj,ruyer had aogood a chance of being accepted as same other thatwere better worded Duncan cmld not thenrread, buthaving learned fevtral pmlms from Mary by rote^ hecaused her feek out the place, and suarj the 23dPfalm from end to end, with great sweetness and de¬cency. Maty read a chapter in the New Testament, amithen (my mother having a child on her knee^ we threekneeled in a row. while Duncan prayed thus:—“ OLord, be thou our Goo our guide, and ourguard untodeath, & through death’*, that was a sentence my f „heroften used in prayer Duncan hed Kid hold of it, and mymother began to think 'hat he had often prayed previousto that time,—‘ O Lord, thou’—continued Duncait butV15fus matter was exhausted ; a long pause ensued, which1 at length broke, by bursting into a loud fit of laugh¬ter Duncan rofc hallily, and without once liftingup his bead, went crying to his bed ; and as 1 continu¬ed to indulge in laughter, my mother, for my irreve¬rent behaviour, (buck me acrofs the Ihouldcrs with theI tongs ; o'ur evening devotions terminated exceedinglyill, I went crying to my bed after Duncan, even loud¬er than he, and a*■ • sing him for his useless prayer, forwhich I had been 'Tcatly felled.By the time that we were recalled from school toherd the cows next summer, we could both read theBible with considerable facility, but Duncan far excel¬led me in perfpicacity ; and fond was he of readingBible history,‘’that the reading of it was now our con-ftant amusement. Often have Mary, and he, and 1,lain under the firnie phid, by the fide of the corn ori meadow, and read chapter about on the Bible for hoursE together, weeping over the failings and fall of goodiil tiien, ano wondering at tur iftconceiVabU might of theheroes of antiquity. Never was man fo delighted asi Duncan was when he came to the history of Sampfon,I and afterwards of David and Goliah ; he could not besatisfied .until he had read it to every individual withwhom he was acquainted, judging it to be as new andas interesting to every one as it was to himfelf 1have seen him standing by the girls as they weremilking the cows, reading to them the feats of Samfoo;8 and, in fhott, harafiing every man and woman, aboutit the hamlet, for audience. On Sundays, my parents;a accompanied us to the fields, and joined in out delight¬s' ful cxercifel ime pafstd away, and so aUo did our youthful de¬li lights ! but other carts and other pleasures awaited us.i As we advanced in years and llrtngth, wt quirted thei herding, and bore a hand in the labours of the farm,ti Mary, too, was often <-ur affillant. She and Duncanwere nearly of an age—he was tall, comely, and affable;and if Mary was not the piettiest girl in the parish, atleast Duncan and 1 believed her to be so, which, withus, amounted to the fame thing. We often compar¬ed the other girls in the parish with one another as totheir beauty and accomplishments, but to think ofcomparing any of them with Mary, was entirely outof the question, She was, indeed, the emblem oftruth, simplicity, and innocence, and if there were fewmore beautiful, there were still fewer so good andamiable; but still as she advanced in years, ihe grewfonder and fonder of being near Duncan ; and by thetime (lie was nineteen; was fo deeply in love, that itaffected her manner, her spirits, and her health. Atone time (he was gay and frifley as a kitten ; (hewould dance, sing, and laugh violently at the mofttrivial incidents. At other times (he was filent andfad, while a langui(hing foftness overfpread her fea¬tures, and added greatly to her charms The passionwas undoubtedly mutual between them; butDuncan*either from a fenfe of honour, or feme other cause,never declared himself farther on the subject, than bythe moft respe&ful attention, and tender assiduities.About forty years ago the flocks of southern sheep,which have since that period inundated the Highlands,had not found their way over the Grampian mountains,and the native flocks of that fequeftratid country wereso scanty, that it was found necessary to transportsmall quantities of wool annually to the north, to fur¬nish materials for clothing the inhabitants. Duringtwo months of each summer, the hilly countries of theLov. lands were inundated oy hundreds ot women fromthe Highlands, who bartered fmall articles of dre(s,and of domeftic import, for wool; these were knownby the appellation of norlen* netties ; and few nightspr.ffed, eluting the wool season, that some of themwere not lodged at my lather’s house. It was fromtwo of thefe that Duncan learned one day who andwhat he was ; that he was the laird of Glenellich’s17only son and heir, and that a large fum had been of¬fered to any perfon that could difcover him Myparents certainly rejoiced in Duncan’s good fortune,yet they were difconsolate at parting with hita : forhe had long ago become as a fon of their owr } and 1feriously believe, that from the day they firft met, tathat on which the two norlan' netties came to our houfe,they never once entertained the idea of parting. Formy part, 1 wifhed that the nelties had never beenborn, or that they had ftaid at their own home ; forthe thoughts of being feparated from my dear friendi made me fick at heart All our feelings, were, how-i ever, nothing, when compared with thofe of my sifter,!f Mary.One day at dinner, after a long and fallen paufe,t my father faid, “ 1 hope you do not intend to leaveill uo very soon, Duncan?” “ 1 am thinking of goingH away to morrow, Sir,” said Duncan. The knife fellill from my mother’s hand; ihe looked him s’eadily in:l the face for the fpace of a minute. “ Duncan,” said!l fire, her voice faultering, and the tears droppingil from her eye—“ Duncan, 1 never durst afk you.1 before, but 1 hope you will not leave us altogether?”{ Duncan thrust the plate from before him into thei middle of the table—took up a book that lay on thei window, and looked over the pages—Mary left theI room. No anfwer was returned, nor any furtherinquiry made ! and our little party broke up in ft.lence.)I When we met again in the evening, we were ftiilall fallen. My father faid, “ You will foon forgetus, Duncan ; but there are fome among us who willcot fo foon forget you. Mary again left the room,and silence enfued, until the family were called toge¬ther for evening worship.The next mor.iing, after a rcstlefs night, Duncan•/ rofe early, put on. his best fuit, and packed up fomet little articles to carry with him. 1 lay panting and18trembling, but pretended to be fast afleep. When bewas ready to depart, he took his bundle below his arm,came up to the fide of the bed, and liftened if 1 was 'sleeping. He then ftood long hesitating, looking wist¬fully to the door, and then to me alternately; and 1faw him three or four times wipe his eyes. At lengthhe firook me gently by the Ihoulder, and asked if 1 wasawake. I feigned to ftart, and answered as if half jasleep. “ 1 must bid you farewell,” faid he, groping |to get hold of my hand- “Will you not breakfastwith us, Duncan,” faid 1- “No,” faid he, “1 am .thinking that it is best to fteal away, for it will breakray heart to take leave of your parents, and”—•* Andwho, Duncan ?” faid 1. “ And you,” faid he “ In¬deed, but it is best Duncan,” faid J, “ we will allbreakfaft together for the last time, and then take aformal and kind leave of each other ” VVe did break¬fast together, and as the converfation turned on for¬mer days, it became highly infetesting to usall Whenmy father had returned thanks to Heaven lor cur meal,we knew what was coming, and began to look at eachother. Duncan rofc, and after we had all loaded himhim with our blf fiings and warmest wishes, he embraced 1my parents and me. He turned abnut, — His eyes saidplainly, there is fomebody still wanting, but his heart jv/as D full he could n*»r fpeak. “ What is become ofMary ?” faid my father ;—Mary was gone.—Wefearched the house, the garden, and the houses of leithe cottagers, but fhe was no where to be found —Poor level urn forfaken Mary ! She had hid herfeif inthe ancient yew that grows in front of the old ruin,that fhe might fee her lover depirt, without herfeifbeing feen, and might' ndnlge in all the luxury of woe.J man pufs over Duncan’s journey to the northHighlands, tor want of room ; but on the evening ofthe sixth day af'er leaving my father’s house, he reach¬ed he mansion-house of Glenellich, which stands in alittle beautiful woody strath, commanding a view of19the Deu.Caledonian Sea, and part of the Hebrides;every avenue, Um, and rock, was yet familiar to Dun¬can’s recollection: and the feelings of his fensibleheart like his own. He had, without discovering him¬self, learned from a peafant that his father was stillalive, but that he had never overcome the lofs of hisson, for whom he lamented every day ; that his w deand daughter lorded it over him, holding his pleafureat nought, and rendering his age extremely unhappy,that they'had expelled all his old farmers and vaisals;and introduced the lady’s vulgar presumptuous rela¬tions, who neither paid him rents; honour, nor obedi¬ence.Old Glenellich was taking his evening walk on theroad by whir’’ Duncan descended the strath to hisd welling He was pondering on his own miafortunes,and did not even deign to lift his eyes as the strangerapproached, but seemed courting the number of maikswhich the horfes’ hoofs had made on the way “ Goode en to vou. Sir,” faid Duncan ;—the o’* man stalledand stared him in the face, but with a Icok fo un¬steady and harrafsed, that he feemed incapable dis¬tinguishing any Hn-eammt or feature oi tt “ Goode’en,' faiu he, wiping hisLrow with his arm, and pass¬ing by. — What there was in the voice that struck himso forcibly it is hard to say-^-Nature is powerful.—Duncan could net think of ought to detain him ; andbeing desirous of feeing how matters went on aboutthe house, thought it best to remain some days incog.He went into the fore kitchen, conversed freely withthe fervants, and soon Saw his ftepmother and sitterappear. The former had all th^ insolence and ig-norai * pride of vulgarity raifed to wealth and emi¬nence; the other feemed naturaPy ol an amiabledisposition, but was entirely ruled by her moiher,.who taught her to disdain her father, ali hi:1 relations,and whomsoever he loved. On ’hat . ame evening hea me into the kitchen, where she then was chatting...20with Duncan, to whom fhe fcemed attached at firstfight “ Lexy, my dear,” faid he, Adid you fee myfpectacles?” “ Yes,” faid flic, “ I think 1 faw themon your nofe to day, at breakfaft ” Well, but Ihave loft them fince,” faid he, “You may take upthe next you find then, Sir, “laid she;—The fervantslaughed. “ l might well have known what informa¬tion I would get of you,” said he, regretfully. “Howcan you fpeak in fuch a ftyle to your father, mydear lady ?” faid Duncan —“ If I were he, I wouldplace you where you would learn better manners —•it ill becomes fo pretty a young lady to addrefs anold father thus.” “ He,” faid (he, who minds him?He's a dotard, an old whining, complaining, fupcr-anuated being, worfe than a child-” “ But confiderhis years,” faid Duncan ; “ and befidet, he may havemet with crofses and loises fufficien: to four the temperof a younget man —You (hould at all events pity andreverence, but m ver dcfpife your father.” The oldlady now joiid them. “ You have yet heard no¬thing, young man,” faid the old laird, “if you fawhow my heart is fometimes wrung —“ Yes, 1 have hadIoffes indeed.” “You lofses!”said his spoufe“ No: you never had any Ioffes that did not in theend turn out a vast profit ”—Do you then countthe loss of a loving wife and a son, nothing?” saidhe—“ hut have you not got a loving wife and a daugh¬ter in their room,” returned fhe ; “'the one will notwafte your fortune as a prodigal fon would have done,and the other will takecarc of both you and that, whenyou can no longer do either—the lofs of ycur fon, in¬deed ; it was the greatest bleifiiig you could havereceived;’ “Unfeeling woman ” said he; “but Hea¬ven may yet reftore that son to protect thegray hairs of his old father, and lay his headin an honoured grave ” The old man’s fpiritswe.v quite gone — he cried like a child; —bis lady mimicked him—and, at this, his daugh-ter and the fervanta raised a laugh. “ Inhumani wretches," frid Duncan, starti .g up, and pufhing themafide, “ thus to mock the feelings of an old man, eveni although he were not the lord and master of youall: but take notice—the individual among you allthatfdares to offer fuch another infult to him, I’llroast on that fire." The old man clung to him, andlooked him ruefully in the face. “ You impudent,. beggarly vagabond !’’ faid the lady, “ do you knowto whom you speak ?—fervants turn that wretch out; of . the house, and hunt him with all the dogs in the: kennel.” “ Softly, softly, good lady,” said Dun-' can, “ take care that 1 do not turn you out of thehouse.” —“ Alas, good youth,” said the old laird;“ you little know what you are about; for mercy’ssake forbear ; you are brewing vengeance both fori yourfelf and me ” “Fear not,” said Duncan, “1 willprotect you with my life” “ Pray, may I ask youwhat is your name?” faid the old man, still looking' earnestly at him—“ That you may,” replied Duncan,I “ no man has so good a right to ask any thing of me,tai you have—I am Duncan Campbell, your own fon ’’M-m-m my son !” exclaimed the old man, and sunkback on a feat with a convulsive moan. Duncanheld him in his arms—he soon recovered, and afkedmany incoherent questions—looking at the two molesnon his right leg—kifsed him, and then wept on his-.bofom for joy. “ O God of heaven,” faid he, “ it is:;iulong since I could thank thee heartily for any thing ;now I do thank thee indeed, for I have found my fon !i my dear and only son '”i Contrary to what might have been expected, Dun-ijlcan's pretty only sifter, Altxia, rejoiced most of all\ in his difeovery. She was almost wild with joy atufinding such a brother.— be old lady, her mother,.iwas faid to have wept bitterly in private, but knowingi that Duncan would be her master, she behaved to'him with civility aud respect. Every thing was com-i mitted to his management, and he foon discovered,2>that befides a good clear estate, his fatherhad perfonalfunds to a great amount The halls and cottages of Glen*ellich were filled with feafting, joy, and gladnefs.It was not fo at my father’s house. Misfortuneseldom come fingly. Scarcely had our feelings ever-come the (hock, which they received by the lofs ofour beloved Duncan, when a more terrible misfortuneovertook us, My father, by the monfttous ingrati¬tude of a fritnd whom he trusted, loft at'once thegreater part of his hard-earned fortune. I'he blowcame unexpectedly, and diftracted hi" personal affairsto fuch a degree, that an arrangement feemed al-moft totally impracticable. He ftruggled on withfecurities for several months ; but perceiving that hewas drawing his real friends into danger, by theirfigning of bonds which he mi^ht never be able to re¬deem, he loft heart entirely, and yielded to the tor¬rent. Mary’s mind seemed to gain frelh energy everyday. The activity and diligence which (he evincedia managing the affairs of the farm, and even in giv¬ing advice with regard to other matters, is quite in-incredible ; — often have 1 thought what a treafure thatineftimable girl would have been to an indufttiousman whom (he loved: All our efforts availed nothing;my father received letters of horning on bills to a largeamouni, and we expected every day that he would hetaken from us and dragged to a pnfonWe were all fitting in our little room one day, con-fulting what was best to be done - we could decideupon nothing, for our cafe was desperate—we werefallen into a kind of ftupnr, but the, window being up,a fight appeared that quickly thrilled every heartwith the keenest fenfat.on of anguifh Two mencame riding (harply up by t^e back of the old school-house'. “ Yonder are the officers of juftice now,”fatft my mother, “what (hall we do?” We hurriedto the window, and all of us fooa dilcerned thatthey wete no other than some attorney, accompanied!by a sheriff’* officer. My mother entreated of myfather to escape and hide himself until this first stormwa* overblown, but he would in nowise consent, afstsr*ing us that he had done n >thing of which he was asham¬ed, and was determined to meet every one face to face,and let them do their worft : so finding all our entreatiesvain, we could do nothing but sit down and weep.At length we h<Srrd the noife of their hprses at thedoor. “Yon had better take the njen’s horsesJames,” said my father, “ as there is no other man athand.” “ We will ftay till they rap, if you please,”said I. The cautious officer did not however rap,but afraid lest his deb:or fhould make his escape,he jumped lightly from his horfe, and hasted into thehouse. When we heard him open the outer door,and his footiteps approaching along the entry, ourhearts fainted within fis—he opened the door andstepped into the room—it was Duncan ! our owndearly beloved Duncan. The women uttered an in¬voluntary feream of Surprise, but my father ran andgot hold of one hand, and 1 of the other—my mothertoo, soon had him in her arms, but our embrace wasfhort ; for his eyes fixed on Mary, who flood trem¬bling with joy and wonder :n a corner «f the room,changing her colour every moment—he snatched herup in his arms and kissed her lips, and ere ever shewas aware, her arms had encircled his neck, “ Omy dear Mary,” said he, “my heart has been ill atease since l left you, tut I durst not then tell you aword of my mind, for l l.ttle knew how I was to findaffairs in the place where l-was going; but ah ! youlittle elusive rogue, you owe me another for the oneyon cheated me out of then;‘,'fo faying, he preffedhis lips again to her cheek, and then led her to a feat.Du. can then recr uited all his adventures to us, withevery circumstance of his good fortune —our heartswere uplifted almofl pall bearing—all our cares andfotrows were now forgotten, and we were once more24the happiest little group that ever perhaps sat to¬gether. Before the cloth was laid tor dinner, Maryran out to put on her white gown, and comb her yel¬low hair, but was furprifed at meeting with a smartyoung gentleman in the kitchen, with a scarlet neckon his coat, arid a gold-laced hat. Mary, hrvingnever seen fo fine a gentleman, made him a lowcourtesy, and offered to conduct him to the room:but he fmiled, and told her he was the squire’s ser-vant. We had i'll of us forgot to afk for the gentle¬man that came with Duncan.Duncan and Mary walked for two hours in t;:egarden that evening ; we did not know what prifedbetween them, but the next day he afked her in m.-.r-riage of my parents, and never will I forget the iu-preme happiness and gratitude that beamed in everyface on that happy occafion. .1 need not tell myreaders that my father's affairs were soon retrieved, orthat I accompanied my dear Mary a bride to theHighlands, and bad the fatisfaction of faluting her asMrs. Campbell, and Ludy of Glenelh’ch.4 ’ ' 'FINIS,J. Ncilfon, printer.