THEPROPHECIESj OFa H O MAS Pv Y M E R,‘ The Ancient Scots Prophet.'MHKKEiN IS CONTAINED,rmarks on what is already cometo pals: With feme curious Obier-various on what is yet to come.Carefully Col1e<5led and Compared wi'hAncient Qld Prophecies and the Bool;pi .Arms,SY THE FAMOUSMr. ALLAN BOYD, M. A*^ To which is added,AJT ACCOUNT OF THE MEMORABLE,iATTLE of BANNOCKBURN,Fought in the Year 1314.PRNTED is thx YBAB,I7<LIBfrsvT OF SCOTLAR•O/NauBCE 2 ]ASHORT ACCOUNTOFSir THOMAS LE ARM A NT,allias RYMER.SUx Thomas Learmant, oommorilicalled, i horn as iiymer, was born uthe call corner of Hie, of a good family]His Prophelies have been more creditedthan any that were ever recorded in thjScots Chronicle, as they haye been wd:attelfed, what of them is,pad,, and wha-th:-y allude to, in this prefent centurjand period, and of his dark fayings yet tccome.He told many myflical proplieiies aneniall the kings of Europe, and what fell otra^ttor^ing to his prefidlion, fu this ancienikingdom of Scotland; what is pad, preicn]' and to come..This brief account is taken from th<Records of Cryh, ,near which place hjwas born, and brougbt up.[ .3 1His father was laid to be Laird of Ba1- ^cotnie; and the Records of that family isextant in the Rods', for their aAfiting atieveral Coi^ciis for the hono*r of Scot¬land. And Sir Thomas Rytner’s Prophe-fies and fayings are (till held in efteem.He lived in the reign of Alexander III.King of Scotland, in the year One thouf-and, two hundred and forty-eight, muchregarded, and knighted by that king thatiame;year.Tlie firft of his prophefies ever tiUen•to be faithfully oblerved, was, 1 hat thereHi on Id be aftonn on a ceitain day, thatwould Turpi ife ail Scotland. Now, i’eme/gentlemen being with him that day, theybegan to joke him, and laid, Sir Thomas,you are now miftaken, and we lhall ftayan.i Te your midake, as we have heardfo much of your prophehef. He toldthem to fray an hour longer, and theywould fee and believe. And in lels timethan the hour, an expreis ai rived toSir Thomas from Edinburgh, of the deathof Margaret, Queen to Alexander III. whodied that day. Upon receiving the news.Sir Thomas told them that this was theftorm, and it would give rife to greatercommotions in Scotland.After the death of Queen Margaret,the King married Ifobel, daughter to theEail of Driux; and Sir Thomas told with¬inC: -4 3in a few months'of an earthquake at King*- 'horn, that would make Scotland tremfcie.An exprefs accordingly came to Chyle to^ir 1 ho mas, that the King had fallen fromItis horle at Kinghorn and broke his neck,which happened accordingly. After thedeath of Alexander, he left no heirs, ex¬cept a grandchild, Margaret, daughter tothe King of tyorway, who alfo fioon died;_but a thort time before her death, (he wasbetrothed to Edward, King of England.After .this there was great commotionsanent the fuccefiion to the crown of Scot- •laud, which ficcahoned great hloodlhed, ;particularly beTwixt Brtice and Baliol,which you have recoided in the Scottidt <Hiftofies.The pride of Spain, and the deceitful ■]conduct of the French, as alfo concerning"the Dutch, if all foretold :—Likcwife the$eots ba'tles, at For wood. Bothw^elbridge,Malplaejcie, Killakrankie, Shirreff-ymir,Proud IVdton, near Gladfmuir, Falkirk,Cullodcn, aiul the Camps in Moraythire,and bn the Windmill-brae at Aberdeen,by General Coup, and at Dunbar,/k forty-fhfc, eiphty-txuo and three,£>ir Thomas IVorks doth certifiesTHET H E\PROPHECIESOFThomas Pvymcr,AS to hi<; pripFicu^al fayings, theyare hard to b* underftuod, bccaulethey are pointed out by the Coat of sir ms,which appertain to fo tnanv d;ff. rent king¬doms and per foiW. Yet ••e may obfeivahow fie has pointed out plainly, manyt hings which has Corne to pafs in our daysinch as the extirpation of the noble raceof the Stewarts, the revolution, Slierjff-inuir r Where he fays,ThAt three Ships and a Shield-, '7hat day /hall kt. p t he Field ;sind he the ArUelope's bald,Fbefe three fnips and a Ihield, are inthe Duke of A-gyD’s arms..And even everv particul ar of the rebel¬lion in 1745 ai5d 4^. VViien pointing at n,he fays,si Chieftain vnehofen.Sail choofe forth-iiimfelf,slid rule the id aim us fus Sent •E * 3Whe n fpeaking of King Charles, he calls-^him, 4* A ily fox-bird, who would turn to<Chrifl. wilh the wyles of tods and foxes.”Meaning his fweaungof the covenants.When {peaking of the Battle of Pi efbon-pans, in the year 1745, he names the verytwo neighbouring villages to the fpot ofground whereon it was fought, viz. Goyfe-ford-green and Seton, frying, “■ Between<k S ’ton and the lea, furrow flionld be“ wrought by the light of the moon."—Which sft rerd’y came to pals that movti-ing the battle of Prcflon-pans was foughr.But how the Lion was hurt at this time,and not perceived, is yet a my fiery. Someare of opinion, that it was by taking awaythe power or liiperiority from the chiefsof the Highland Clans, lo that they cannotraife men in fuch a fhoit time as formerly.0 ■ ' ' ' v"' ■ ; \ 1Thcfe are a few of the obfervations wemake on things already come to pafs, andas to what is yet to come, there is fomeremark will yet happen, when the timedraws nigh: Such as, ^ When Tarbet’s“■ Craigs are tumbled into the fea. And“ the next fealon or llurtmer thereatter,“ great forrow and bloochhed happen to14 this realm, the chief thereof, elpecially“ Inch as hading on feds, and chopingoff heads." This Tarbet hands nearUte[ 7 ];;he root of the river Clyde ; but whethertts bsinjT tumbled into the Tea.' Ihuii i up-pen by an earthquake, thunder, or by thebamhi of men, is a* myftcry unknown.There is alfo mention made of a Lordwith a Uicken or double hand, which cer¬tainly is of royah blood, and will breedgreat ftir and confhfion in Uritain. i Idsman is alive in this very prelent age, andof the Stewarts race, now in Italy. 1 hereis plainly pointed out, that in his time,a great battle fiiould be leen in Fife,IVhere [adiled ltorfes fhouldbejc-en,‘Tytci unto thrived grcan.Not only in Fife, but the four chiefrivers of the realm, there fhould be abattle on each of them, that fbould m; ke!the rivers run with blood, viz, 1 weedyClyde, Forth and lay.LeH; of all. a bloody defp*r?.te battle inNorthumberland on the iiycr Tyne.-—AJfo great havock a^d flan dher about t iebroad walls of Bcrwock. AH thefe thingsare yet to come to pafs : and when the li 'fhappears, the red will loon follow after.' A 4 OldO L DScottiih Pi 'ophecies,B YTHOMAS R Y M E R,^ PART II,Wktn Hemp e is come, and alfo gone,Scotland and England/w// L* one*: .-I jlf.' Y » \ ; - - f.i . .1Henry, Edward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth,"Vlir. VI. - ofiipain,Q. M’s Hufl>.H E JV1 p £.Praijed be GO D alone,1'or Hemps is come and gone,Hnd left us o/T Albion,By peace join'd in one.TheC 9 3 'The explication of the foregoing pro--pViecy, concerning Hsmpe b«?r^g eomt*,and alto gone, and leaving Scotland andEngland joined in one, is fulfilled in thelate King William, who came out otHolland, which in old times was vulgarlycalled the land of Hempe: and the joiningof the two nations together-, fignifies theUnion.Thefe things were foretold by the twoScots Prophets, in the reignof King Arthur.Firft, by the marvellous Merlmg, who islaid to be got by a Devil, who ravitbeda young Woman, his mother, in a woodnear Coldftream, in the South of Scotland.Afterwards, to the lame perpoie, thefeand many more fbange things were fore-'told by Thomas Lermon, vulgarly called,'Thomas Rymer, Ijpcaufe he fpoke all hisprophetical fayingsin rhyme^ and fo dark- 'ly, that they cculd not be underilood untilthey came to pais,iBut of all the Prophets that ever werein Scotland, there never was any of themwho attained to fuch credit, becaufe massyof Isis predictions referred to our own'country, and were acccmpUflied in thelads and prefent century,A 5 . .[ 1° ]THOMAS RTMER'sItPRO PH E GIE%IN VERSE, j* * ** Il3 C GOTLAND be fad nnw and lamenSri. |for honours thou haft left,But yet rejoice, in better times,which vvilj repay the coft.2 Tho* into thraldom you fhculd bebrought by ypur enemies,You ftiall have freedom from them all, ]and erjoy your liberties.3 The grave of the moft nobldTrinceto all is ^reat regret,The iubjuft to law, who doth leavethe kingdom and eftate.4 O anguifh great! where every kindand ages doth jaraent:Whom bitter death has ta’en awayr(hall Scotland fore repent.* \ C ]5 Lately a land of rich increafe,a nation flout find true.Has loft-their former dear eflate,which they did hold of due.6 By hard conflift, and by the chanceof noble Fortune’s force,Thy hap and thy proipci itymay turn unto worie.7 Tho’ wont to won, may be fubdu’d,and come in under yoke;Strangers may reign, and you deftroy,what hkes hint by fword’s broke.8 i\ foreign foe, whom neither thy forcenor marmers do approve,Woe is to thee, by guile and flight,will only win above.9 This mighty nation was to-fere,invincible and flout,Will yield flowly to defliny j-great pity is but doubt.lo In former age the Scots renown,did flouriih goodly gay:But yet, alas! will be overcomewith a great dark decay.S i Then mark and fee what is the caufe,ot tins lo wondVons fall!Contempt of faith, fubhood, deceit,•the wrath of God withal.Hi UnratiabTr'orcrd <»f worldly gain,opprelfrfcn* cV©% of poor,A perp«taat.a .t+’flandefous race,no jidUce ?n ure.13 The haughty pi We of mighty men,of former vice thief cauie,The nutriture of wickednels,an unjufl: match of laws:14 Therefore this caufe the prophets told,,of long time did prefage.And now has happen’d every point,into your pielent age.jy Sjnce fate is lb, now Scotland learn,;n patience to abide;Slanders, great fears,&hidden plagues,and great dolonrs more befide.26 For out of thee (hall people rife,with divers happim fs ;And yet a penman fcarcely write,thy hurt, Ikaith, and diltrels.57 And yet beware thou not diUrtiflyaltho^ o’erwhelm’d with grief,Thy ftroke is not perpetual, vfor thou lhalt find relief.15 l do fuppofe, altho’ too late,old prophecies fhall hold ;H( pe thou in God’s goodnefs evermore,aijd mercies manifold.[ 13 ]19 For thou that now a patient is,and i'eemeth to be bound ;At liberty (hail free be iet,and with empire be crown'd.20 From high above fhall grace comedown,.end thy (late Scotland be.In laiter ends more pi ofpercdis,nof former age did lee.si Old ] rophecies foietel to thee,a warlike Heir he’s born,Wno (hall recover new yotir right,advance this kingdom’s horn.#22 Then (hall fair Scotland be advanc’d,above her en’mies power;Her cruel foes (hall be dispers'dand leatter’d from her bow’r.23 Fair Scotia’s en’mies may invade,byt not Ucape a plague;With fword. & third, Sc tears So peft,with fears and inch like ague.24 Aryl after en’mies thrown down,- and mattered by war.Then Scotland in peace and qaietnefs,pats joyful days for ever.But that the curious may be more fullyinformed concerning the forefaid predic¬tions, with refpe<tt to their being exactlyfulfilled, they are referred to the ScotthhHiltoriestANaccountOF THEBATTLE of BANNOCKBURN*.EDWARD IL of England, kept up ttelame claim upon Scotland, cyhicb bis fa¬ther had began •, and after feveral ucfuc-celsf.1! attempts to cltablilh it, lie reloived.to make a great tffort, and with one blowreduce that turbulent nation, which hadput lb many lignai affronts upon his fatherand himi'elf.In the Spring, 13(4. afiemoled themolt numerous army that had ever crolTedthe borders, compoled of different nations,and amounting to above 100,000 effectivemen,befide a huge multitude of attendants,who came along in hopes of (haring in theplunder of a conquered enemy. At thehead of tfeefe he marched northward withan uncommon parade, and in full ^confi¬dence of victory. Robertr ir~iiiiii n[ i* 1Robert Bruce,* the fon of that PvnbertBruce who held a conference with Wal¬lace upon the banks of the Garron, andgrandfon to him who had been competitorwith Baliol, had, in 1306, been crownedKing of Scotland ; and being informed ofEdward’s formidable preparations, hejaifed an army of 30,000 of his fubjefts,to oppofe h<m. This armament bore huta I'm ail proportion to that Edward’s;but it was com poled of foldiers, who v/crehardened by long practice of war, andwho now carried upon the point of theirIwoid, liberty- and honour,- and everything that was dear to them. With thebeRobert- took up his ftaticn in the neigh¬bourhood of Stirling, and waited for Ed¬ward’s arrival.The two armies came in light cf eachether, in the month of June, and loon aftera bloody battle was fought, in which theScots obtained a victory, the m itl cele¬brated of any in the annals of that king¬dom. The procedure of this memorableevent was as follows.The Englifl) having marched from Edin¬burgh to Falkirk in one day, and upon themorrow, fetting out from thence towardsStirling, encamped to the northward ofthe lorwood. About Uppei-Banncck-1[ 16 ]burn, and backward upon the Muir of .Plean, in the neighbourhood of the ancientRoman Cai’way, pieces of broken pots,and other vefTcis, have been found ; andupon rocks near the fur face, marks of 5rehave been diicovefed, where it was fup-pofed the foldiers had made ready theirproviders Barbour, the author of KingRobert Bruce’s life, (’peaks as if their camphad ftretched lb far northward as to oc¬cupy a part of carfe-gronnd ; and fo vafta multitude mull doubtlefs have coveret!a large tratH; of the count: y.The S^ottiQj army was pofted about amile to the northward, upon l'ev,eral fmalleminences, fouth from the prtfent villageof 8t. Ninians. Upon the iuuvfnit of oneof fchefe eminencits, now called Brock’sbrae, is a (lone funk into the earth, witha round hole in it. near tnree inches indiameter, and much the fame in depth,in which, .according ro tradition, XingRobert’s ft an da rd vras fixed, the royal tenthaving been crcfteu near it. This doneis well known in that neighbourhood bythe name of the Bore-ftone. The final!river of B ihnockburn, remarkable for itsfteSp and rugged banks,' ran in a narrowvalley between the two camps.The. • * C 17 ] .The CaHle of Srirlirg was flill in thehands of the Englifti. Edward Bruce, tlieKisg’s brother, had, in the ‘Spring of thislaid liege to it. but found himftIfobliged to abandon the enterprize ; onlyby a treaty between that Prince and Mou-bray, the Governor, It wras agreed, thac,if the garrifori received no relief fromEngland before a year expired, they Ihouktiurrender to the Scots.The day preceding the battle, ^.flrongbody of cavahy, to the number of 800,was detached from the Rnglifh camp, uu-der the conduct of Lord Glift’ord, to thejelief of that garritbn. Thete havingmarche i through tome hol’cw grcunrls,upon the edge of the Carle, had paired theScv>ts army before they were obterved.i he King himfelf was the firfl that per¬ceived them, and ddiring fhomss liar-dolph, Lari of Murray, to look towardsthe place where they were, told him; thata role had falleft from hi* chaplet. Ran¬dolph conlidering this as a reproach, be-cnule he had the charge of that part thro'which trie Englilh had marched, immedi¬ately let out after them with a pmty of500 horle, and coming ud with them intbe'pjain, where the imal! village of New-Honfe now Hands, a {harp action einfued,ia li^ht of both armies, and of the gamionof[ I® ]of Stii ling. It was fought with valour oitboth fidts; and it was for ibme timedoubtful where victory ftfbiiId turn. King.Robert, attended by fome of his officers,beheld tliis rencounter from f ifing ground,liij>poll'd to be the round hill immediatelyupon the weft of St Nkua-ns, now calledCock-(hot-hill. James Douglas perceiving'the d» ft refs of Randolph, who was greadyinferior to the enemy in numbers, ofli.?'!leave to go to his fupport. 11 us KingRobert at firft refuied, bat afterwards-con fed "ed. Douglas put his foldiers in.motion: obferving, however, as he wason the way, that the vi&cry was uponthe point of being won without his rdufi¬ance, he flopped ftiort, that his f iendmight have the unrivalled giory ot itThe Englifh were entirely defeated, andmany ot them Hi in: and Randolph re¬turned to dhc camp amidft acclamationsof univerfal joy. Fo perpetuate tne me¬mory of this 'victory, two ftor.es werereared up in the field, and are ftill tb beTeeri there. They ftand in a fpot vniicnhas lately been encibfed for a garden,at the north end of the village .or NTew-honfe, and about a qu arter of a mile fromthe Borough-port or biirling.ThisC >9 ]Tliis viftory gave new fplrits to thewhole army, and made them Jo eager for1the general engagement,, that the night,though among the fliortefl of the ytar,feemed long to them, Edward; too, cx-afperated at the defca" of his detachment,was determined to bi'ing on the battleon the morrow. <Yt length appeared thedawn ot that important day, which wasto decide, whether Scotland was hence¬forth to be Hii independent kingdom, orfhbjc«S tc a foreign yoke. Kai ly ali wasin motion in both armiesreligious lenti-ments were mingled with the military ar¬dour of the Sects; a folemn mafs, in themanner of thefe times, was faid by theAbbot of InchaffVry, a monadry in Stralh-carn. who alio adminidered the Satjramentto the King, and the great officers abouthim, while inferior pr/Jlsdid the fametc the rdt of the army. After this, theyformed in order of battle, in a track ofground, called Nether Touchadarh, whichlies along the declivity of a gentle rilingbill: This lunation had been previouflyehofen.' becaufe of its advantages. Uponthe right they had a range of fteep rocks,now called Murray’s Craig, and in theirfront were Iteep banks of the rivulet ofBannockburn. Not far behind them wasa weed, feme veftiges of which dill re¬main. Upon the left was a morafs, nowcal-[ -20 ']called Milton-bog, from its vicinity to aimall Village of that oame: much of thisbog is (till undrainecl. and a part of it isat 'prefent a mill-dam. As it was thenthe middie of dimmer, it was almnft quite:dry. But King Robert had recoorft* to a(tratagena, in order to prevent any attackfrom that -quarter. He h ad ordered many,ditches and pits to be digged in the trtorrUs,find (lakes, (h3rpeped at both ends, to bedriven into them, and the whole to bcrcovered over again with green turf, io'that the 'ground had (fill the appearance;of being firm He alfo can-fed crow-feet,,or iharp-pointed irons, to he fcatteredthroughout the morals; feme of which,have been found there in the memory of;people dill living r the fame mar.cenvrcswere likewife carried on for a little way :along the front of the left wing ; for therethe banks, for about two hundred yards,,being Hatter than they are any where die,it was the only place where the enemycould pals the river in any fort of order.By means of thefe artificial movements,joined to the natural ftrengili of the ground,the Scotcii ^arrr.y Hood as within an en¬trenchment, and the inviflble pits aidditches anfwered to the concealed batte¬ries of more modern times,Amongfl?Amon^O: the other occurrences of thisimorable day. hiftorians mention an in-Jent of a finpnla^ nature. As the twomies were about to enf.-’ge, the AbbotInchafifery porting him tel f before theots, with a crucifix in his hand, they all)1 down upon their knees in aft of de-nion. The enemy obfeiving them inuncommon a poiture, coocludcd thatey were frighted into fubmiflion, andat, by kneeiing, when they ffiould beady to fight, they meant to fhrrender atferetion, and only begged their lives;it they were loon undeceived, when theyw dvem rile again and rtand to theirirs,with rteady countenance.The EngliOi began the adtion by a briflslarge upon the left wiag of the Scots,nnimntied by Randolph, near the Ipot'here the bridge is now thrown over thever, at the fmall village of Charterfliall.ereabout was the only place where thever could be crcffed in any order.—•large body of cavalry advanced to at-tek him in front, while another fetchedcompafs to fall upon his flank-and rear;at before they could come to a dol’dngagement, they fell into the lhare thatad been Jaid for them. Many of the irurfes were fbon dilabled by the {harpor.s xufhing into their feet, others tumb¬led[ 22 ]led into the concealed pits, and could notdilentaugle themfelves. Pieces of theharnefling, with bits of broken Ipears, and:other armour, ftill continue to be dug upin the bog.fn the beginning of the engagement, anincident happened, which, though in itleiCof linall moment, was rendered importautby its confcquences. King Ilobert wasmounted on hotfeback, carrying a battle-ax in his hand, and upon his helmet hewore a high turban, in the form of acrown, by way of diftinfUon. This, tof|gether with his activity, rendered binvery coiifpicuous as he rode before thelines. An Enghlh Knight, named Bohun,:who was lanked among the braveit inEdward’s army, came galloping furicuilyup to him, in order to engage with himin fingle combat, expecting by fo eminentan aff of chivalry, at once to put an end;to the cohieft, and gain immortal renownto himfelf; but the^enterprifing championhaving miffed his fir ft blow, was immedi-"ately ftrnclc dead with the battle-ax whichthe King carried in his hard* Ph-s was afort of fignal for the charge. So bold anattack upon their King, filled the Sootswith ientiments of revenge; and the he¬roic atchievement performed by him be¬fore iherr eyes, i ailed their 1'pirits to thehigh-E *3 ]p?*ch. They ruflied furioutly uponthe enemy, who, having by this tune pai¬red the river in great numbers, gave tncm.a warm reception.\ fingular occurrence, which Tome ac¬counts .reprefent as an accidental faly ofpatriotic enthufiafm, ethers as a pi emedi-, tated ft rata gem of Khig Robert, futvienlyaltered the face of fif ths, and contr ibutedgreatly to the victory: All the fervantsand attendants of the Scott.lh army, who^re laid to have amounted to twenty thou-fand, had been ordered before the battle,to retire behind Murray's Craig. Buthaving, during-tlie engagement, arrangedthemfelves in a martial form, they march¬ed to the top of the hid, and difplayingwhite fheets fixed '.'pon poles, inftead ofbanners, moved towards the ii id of battlewith hideous fhouts. Thc Jinghlh per¬ceiving this motdy crowd, and takingthem for a frefn reinforeement auvancingto fupport the Scots, were fci'zed with ibgreat a panic, that they began to i»ive wayin confuftnp. Buchanan fays, that theKjag of England vvrs the ft; ft who fled;but in this h~ contrad cts ail other hiftori-ans,1 wTho aflivm tl at he was among thelaft, rn the field: Tire Scots pm fed, andgreat was the {laughter among the enemy,efpeciaily in pa fling the river, where theycouldC 24 2could Jteep no order, becauf- of the irre-pnl.«rity of tlie ground. King Edvvardhirafelf efcaped vrith muth ditficulty, beingcloillv purfed, for above forty miles, by.S ir James Douglas, with-a party of lighthone: He was upon the paint of beingtaken pritbner, when he was received intotheCaltle of Dunbar by t he Earl of March,who conveyed him r* England, by lea, ina fishef’s b'oat; his immenfe army beingentirely dilcomfited. The Scots loft onlyfour thoufapd mep, while the lois of theEngiitb amauiited to above 30^00.IF I 'N I S.\ . _