BETSEY BAKER,’ To winch are added,WHO ,r MASTER,OR,A FIGHT FOR THE BREECHES.YORK YOURE WANTED.ANDfimigrantgGLASGOW!Mated by and for J. Nait, 17 . Bwer,182».BETSEY BAKER.Am. — “ Pnsh about the Jorum."Jt SungbgMr. 1*011.', Thcar.'ical Ptivilion GttmpFrom noise and hustle far away,Hard woik my time employing.How happily I passed each day,Content and health enjoying;The birds did sing, and so did I,As I trudged o'er each acre,I never knew what ’twas to sigbjTill I saw Detsey Baker.At church I met her dressed so neat.One Sunday in hot weathr^With love I found my heart did beat.As we sung psalms together.So piously she hung her head,The while her voice did shake, ah II thought if ever 1 did wed,’Twould be with Betsey Baker.So from her side I could not budge.And sure I thought no harm on’t,M, elbow then she gave a nudge.And bade hie mind the sarment-Whervchurch was over cut she walfod,But I did overlake her.Determined I would not be baulksd,—I spoke to Betsey Baker.3:< B*r manners were genteel ami cool,I found on conversation,1 She had just come from boarding-Mhool.And finished her education ti But love made me speak out quite fra* ;Says I, “ I've many an acre,1 Will you give me your company ?’’—<* 1 sha’nt,” said Betsey Baker.U| All my entreaties she did slight,And I was forced to leave her,i I got no sleep all that there night,For love had brought a fever.I The doctor came, he smelt his cane,With long face like a quaker,; Said he, “ young man, where Hesthy pain?"'Says I, “ In Betsey Baker.”I! Because I was not had enough.He boluss’d and lie pill'd me,And if I’d taken aU his stuff,I think he would ha’ kill’d me :I put an end to all the strife,’Twixt him and the undertaker,And what d ve think ’twas saved my fa— Why, thoughts of Betsey Baker.I then again to Betsey went.Once more with love attacked her,i But, meantime, she had got acquaintWith a ramping mad play-actor:If ehe would have hia , ha did say^A lady he would; Raikd ; r ;He gammoned.her to run a vay,And I lost Betsey -Baker.I fretted very much to nnd:My hopes of love so .undone,And mother thought Y uui.i ease my rnfm)in came up to London ;But though I strive another way,My thoughts will ne’er forsake hersI dream all night and think all dayOf cruel Betsey Baker.WHO’S MASTER?oa,A FIGHT FOR THE BREECHES.Suns by A/r. Potts, Theatrical Vain/ion, GlasguvfI’ve often heard Will’s wife declare,That she the breeches, Sirs, wou.d wear jAnd though her husband would resist,For them she’d fight with nails and fist,To gain, to gain the breeches.One day as they were at it driving,{Who would he master, they were striving?)A single rap came to the door,And for a while they did give o’erFighting, fighting, fighting for the kneoht*.oWill ope’d th? d'iVq>, t!i<; fuisirff •: i asked*,Whenhe w!i<rki o’c: '■ l ms Usktd,«* The master «>t ?fw.< t!”" See him just i nw •(''*••) • “ tM can’t,. Until he get tM ij're^h.*s ' ’*‘ For spoils" ■. igrce,As yet who m i't. r’ : i'I'"'; ’ ‘ "' ’But in five ^ .Who mas’er : ■ f,And who’s di u ■ 14 4.”Now spouse .•••,V/ill-lhoy ill ' -rage.They both ’set gn with V-j ;! r , ; 'At length puoV Wiil'was t').' rd t • yield.And, soundly dribhed, to ij n v : field ;He lost,' he i }A th'j fires', lies !Spouse she vyent li.itb. th.e •loor,.Just as wnijwj done before ; .“ Good morning, friend, your ou uess, pray?.I master ura, I’vij.g.iiuei.rt'h': dW,'1' .I wear, I Wear th.e brcc: bos !Yes, 1 wca?,^ f 'wear' tlui b'r '.iclies l”. .ylijf n- m ./p%n IYORK.; YO'LfiU', VVAM r3D.“Air—Allig Cry':/iar." , , /From Yo !. 1 coin’d, up to get iAnd travel*-.•d o this tow.i, yirla Holboru I'an office foundOf credit and ratio vo, Sir ;Sa}C I, Fray,, Sir, get me a plaeaifey. he, Your‘payer’s graiftedfiA»d vhcn I meet with one to&t ri.-te,m tell you, York, you’reA gentlsman soon hired mo :I found he was a gambler;fi«ya he, I want a steady lad,Says I, Sir. I’m no rambler,But if you want a knowing one,By few I am supplanted ;Oh, that is just the thing, says hq*So, Mr. York, you’re wanted.Vow I knew somewhat of a horsei,And master just the same, Sir;And if we did not do the fools,E’cod we’d been to blame. Sir,At races then we both looked out,—-For cash earh bosom panted,—And when we thought the flats woulcl btM^,The word was,—York, you’re wod.uAAway I went one day to see,I think ’twas the Old Hailey',There stood the lords and lawyers grnf,Triggd on: in wires so gaily.There stood a chap for horse stealingLa—how the poor soul panted,E’cod, I slipped out o’ couit.Lest Yoik should next lie wanted.A maiden lady, you must know,Just sixty three years old, Sir,There fell in love with my sweet fat*And I w ith her sweet gold , Sir :7She said the little god of loveHer tender bosom haunted,Dear Sir, I utmost blush to own,But, Mr. York, you're wanted;In wedlock's joys, you need not douttyMost happily I rolled, Sir ;And how we loved, or how we fought*Shall never now be told. Sir;For Mr. Death stepped in one daj;And swift his dart lie planted ;I wiped my eyes, and thanked tny1 aWitt'Twas Mrs. York he wanted.So, ladies, pray now guard your hearts*A secret while I teH, O ;A widower with half a plumbMust needs he a rich fellow.With fifty thousand pounds, I thinkI ought not to he daunted,Some lovely girl, I hope, ere long,Will say, Sweet York, you’re wanted.THE EMIGRANT S FAREWJWjUTuwb—My GumI Lord Jolt**Osjh native land—our native falw- -A long and last adieu !Farewell to bonnie Tivotdale,And Cheviot mountfdas bl**-*8Farewell, y I ;ii' < ! L^uious deeds,And shei i' ; u nox'ii'd in song—Fsrewell, u > m s Vnd Idossoui'd meads,Ojjr heait^ 1 . vt im’d so long.Farewell, tlie hlvtliesome hroomy knowp#.Where tlixn i- and harebells grow—Farewell, the hoary, haunted, howes.O’er hung with hiik and sloe.The mossy cave and mouldering towt*'That skirt our native dell—The martyr’s grave, and lover’s bower'We bid a sad farewell!Home of our love ! our fathers* boro* JLand of the brave and free !The sail is flapping on tire foamThat bears us far from thee 1We seek a wild and distant shore.Beyond the western main—We leave thee to return no more,Nor view thy cliffs again 1Our native land—our native vale—A long and last adieu !Farewell to bonny Tivotdale,And Scotland's ryountaina blue !