A Groat’s worth of WitFOB APENNYOK, THE ,IO*Dreams, JffiolesEDINBURGH:Printed for theUi^>yr^OFSCOTUK# *GROATS WORTH OF WIT1 II07V a man or maid shall know theirdream, whether they shall have themthey love, or not.If F a maid loves a man, and dreams she| -®- is going to church with another man,[\ and that she runs from him, she will as¬suredly have the man she desireth : But1 if she dream she goeth into church withf the other man, she will not have the man? she loveth. If the man dreams any3 thing which he is assured is like thea aforesaid, it denotes the like fortune as toI a woman.FOR AP E N N Y.4The Signification of luQLtS.If a man has a mole opposite the heart,it shews him vicions; if a woman, it 5shewf the same. If a man has a moleon the neck, it signifies he shall becomevery rich ; if a woman, the same. If aman has a mole beliina the neck, it de¬monstrates he slpil be Jb.eheaded, exceptGod,' through earnest -prayers, prevent Ithe same. If a man or woman have a j5mole on- either lip, it-denotes gluttony.A tnolemn a man’s chin denotes he shallbe rich in money arid possessions: Thewoman having a mole on the same placedemonstrates she will have the like’ sue- *cess, and that she hath likewise a moIe|opposite the melt or spleen : If a man ,hath a Apple on the ears, it shews he shall;be ricii and very much reverenced and |welt spoken of; the like to, a woman : If ;a woman or a man have a mole’ on the;loins, it denotes a weak and poor kindred, jas well as very grdat >var4t: If a mdle beseen on'both the 'shoulders of a man, let j-him beware of imprisonment: If a man ■has a mole on the throat, it shews he Ishall marry a rich and beautiful woman;if a woman has one on the same place, itshews she shall marry a wealthy :and'comely man*: If a mole appeal- cm thehand of either man or '.woman, it shewsprosperity and enjoyment of children.: Ifa man or woman have a mole on thebreast, itshovTS much loss and poverty:Jf either man or .woman have. a. mole onthe bottom of the felly, it argues weak¬ness, sickness, and sorrow : If a mole oneither man,or woman be near the privateparts, it shews unspeakable covetousness:If a woman has a mole on the right knee,it shews her honest and virtuous; if onthe left knee, she wilf have many chil¬dren ; a mole on the ancle of a man,shews he shall take on him the woman’spart, a woman with one on the sameplace shews that she will be desirous torule, taking the man’s part: If either'sexhas a mole on the foot, it is a sign thatthey shall travel into strange countries ;and a mole on the right side of'either sex,signifies honesty arid riches: But on theleft side, to be surrounded v ith dire cala¬mities.: If a man havp a mole on his[ forehead, it shews he shall possess, .mud?wealth by means of his wife ; a womanhaving a mole on the forehead is born.either to govern, or, come to high digni¬ty ; if a man has a niole on the eye-brow,(6Itt him refrain from marriage; for if hemarries he shall have seven wives in hislife-time : A woman having a mole on the !same place stands fair to have as manyhusbands: If a man hath" a mole on hisnose, somewhat of a ruddy colour, it de- 1notes him a person over much given tothe venereal act: If a woman have amole on the nether jaw, she will lead herlife in much sorrow and pain of body, be-cause she has that within her which hind- 'crs her from bearing children ; If a manhave the form of a mole on his tongue, itshews he shall wed a rich and virtuous 'woman.The Signification of DREAMS.If you dream of men with bills, word?,or writings in their hands, then bewareof being arrested the day following.  JIf you dream of a snake or a serpent, andthey come near to hurt you, then lock !well to yourself, for there are private ienemies seeking to destroy both you andyours.—To dream you reach the top of a :'hill, shews you will next day put an end tto'some affair of consequence; but if yc-u ^7’ fall before you reach the top, it shewsI your suit will be lost. If you dream of| troubled water, and that you fall into it,i you may expect to hear bad news the nextf day. If you dream you outrun a hare,| then you shall receive <a letter or letters: the next day. If you dream you arei beshitten, and are not, then you willi have good fortune in all your business thenext day.——If you dream of eggs that!are broken, there was much mischief por¬tending towards you, hut it is past and'gone. If a woman dreams of eggs thatare whole, she and her neighbours willhave a sad bout of scolding the next day.——If a man dream that he is lying withhis neighbour’s wife, and is not, then thedevil is using his best endeavours to robhim of what he ought not to lose. If aman that is born under the planet Mars,sees two or three moon^ at once in hisdream, then let him expect to hear strangenews from the great ones;—It is good todrearn of gold, but bad to dream of small! pieces of silver—If you dream your friendsare dead, it signifies they are well.-—If aman or woman dream of a black cdffin itdenotes some kindred of theirs is dead.J It is bad to dream of birds or cacklinghens, but very good to dream of com amt)bread.--It is good for a man to dreamof his going or climbing up any place,but bad to dream falling clown any place.Of the Fortunes awe? Destinies of personshorn under the Twelve Signs, accordingto Ptolcmeiis.To know what planet a person is bornunder, it is necessary to observe thatjthere are seven planets, which are attri-feuted to the (seven days of the week ; |each day hath its name of a planet: Soivshews Sunday, being the most worthy,"and so takes the worthiest day. Luna’governs the first hour on Monday, Mars |the first on Tuesday, Mercury on Wed-*hesday, Jupiter on Thursday, Venus onFriday, and Saturn on Saturday. Tbe* ftnatural day hath twenty-four hours, arid , t,each several hour reigns a .planet. It is j fto be understood that, when you begin to- 1reckon on Sunday, you must reekon thug, fSol, Venus, Mercury, Luna, Saturn, Ju- tpiter, and Mars; and when the number is 11on, you must then begin with the hour jin which you would know what planetreigneth. On' Monday we must begin at 11- -9l&UFia, oft Tuesday at Mars, Wednesdayat Mercury, Thursday at Jupiter, Fridayat Venus, and Saturday at Saturn.Ill ‘ Thus, when the number of the planetsis past, you must begin in order as afore¬said. At one o’clock on Sunday morningreigneth Sol; at two Venus, and so byorder in every hour. When a child isborn, it is to be known at what hour, inthe beginning,, in the midst, or at theend; if it be in the beginning he shallhold of the same, and of the other before J \if in the midst, it shall hold of the same,and of the *ext after : Nevertheless, theplanet which he is born under shall notrule over the other, and that of the dayshall have the most predomination, whichis the cause the child holds divers planets,-,and has several conditiona.He that is born under the Sun will heprudent, wise, and eloquent. Those whoare born under Venus are beloved of eve¬ry man, and they shall bear a rule.They who are born under. Mercury! arenot the most prudent. They who areborn under Luna, generally have highforeheads, ruddy, merry visaged, shame¬faced, and very religious. They who areborn under Jupiter' are hardy, fair visag¬ed, ruddy, chaste, and vagabonds* They10who are born under Mars,/$re great*speakers, liars, thieves, and deceivers,and are generally very big, hnd odd ofcolour.The Birth of Children and other Events,rvith respect to the Moon's Age, and theDay of the JVeefr.1st.To be born the first day of the new,moon, portends their life shall be pleasant,w ith an increase of riches.2J.A child born on the second day willgrow apace, and be inclined to lust, ofeither sex. It is lucky on this day tosend messages of trade by land, and sowseed.3d.A child born on the third day will be ishort lived. Never begin any work of mo-.,ment on this day. Thefts committed onthis day wall soon be discovered.4 th.The fourth day is bad. Persons fallingsick, on this day rarely recover, and the]dreams will have no effect.1115 th.The fifth day is favourable to begin agood work, and the dreams will be toler¬ably successful; the child born on thatday will be deceitful and proud.6th.The sixth day the dream will not im-me diately come to pass; and the childborn will not live long.7th.The seventh. Do not tell your dreamon this day, for much depends on conceal¬ing them; if sickness befals you on thisday, you will soon recover ; the child bornwill live long and have many troubles-.8tk.The eighth day, the dreani will cometo pass, and is a very prosperous day.9th.The ninth day differs very little fromthe former; the child born this day, willarrive at great riches and honour.10th.The tenth day is likely to be fatal:those who fall sick will very rarely recover,hut the child born, on this day, will livelong and be a great traveller.llth.The eleventh is a day to be pwried,mor commence a journey. A child born at1 this age of the moon will be healthy,handsome, and of a good constitution,with a particular mole on its forehead.If a female, will be‘remarkable for wis¬dom.On the twelfth day, the child bornwill meet every affection, but be of a badtemper. This is a very unlucky day,particularly to those falling sick.13t/i.A child born on the thirteenth day, will |be unfortunate;, both in temper and estate; '■though a good day for marriages, or to Ifind things which have been lost. Per- |son* imprisoned on this day will soon have Jtheir liberty.14M.A child whose nativity is on the four-teenth day, will die as a traitor. An ex- *celiant day to- ask a favour. Take physic |this day.The fifteenth day is very unfortunate. .A good day to find any thing that .is lost/ :. / ’ . 16/AThe child born on the sixteenth day,will be immaoneredly and unfortunate. I13ay and sell on ibis day. Dreams por-md luck on this day.\7ih.The seventeenth of the moon, a childbe bora on, shews it will be foolish.Fou may take physic, let blood, or con¬tact business on this day.isth. vThe eighteenth day is fortunate, bothjpr male and female bom on it.im.M A nativity on the nineteenth day, tli3i hild will be wise and virtuous, and will| rrive at great honours. „20^.,Your dreams portend good on thewentieth day of the. moon, though a childn that day will be dishonest.21.?/.A child born on the twenty-first daydll be of so unhappy disposition, thatit him look to the sword of justice, per-aps, “ black with murder, sacrilege, andrimes.” An unhappy fatality attendshis day.2MOn the twenty-second day, the childhat i§ born, will purchase a‘gpod estate,le will be handsome, religious, and wellbeloved. This is a good day to. removo''bees.On the twenty^third day, the chilethat is born, will be of an ungovernabbtemper, a great traveller, but die miserable. Good day to be married, or com¬mence business.9,4}lh.On the twenty-fourth day, the childborn, will achieve many heroic actions.2oth.The child born on the twenty-fifth day.will be very wicked, and meet with manydangers. It is a very unfortunate day,and threatens vexation.9,6th.On the twenty-sixth day, the child!born shall be very amiable; if a male willmeet but an indifferent state in the world;if a female, she will be married to a richman for her beauty.97 th.On the' twenty-seventh day, a child!born on this day will have every engagingquality, but will, not rise to any great pre-'tferment. This is a very lucky day.9Sth.On the twenty-eighth day, the child16’that is lx>rn shall be the delight of hisparents, but have much sickness.29M.| On the twenty-ninth day, the childIjthen born shall be blessed with long life,land attain an eminent degree of holinessland virtue. A good day for marrying.SOt/i.A child born on the thirtieth, will beIfortunate and happy. This day equallylas the last.The child born on a Sunday, shall beI of a long life, and obtain riches.! On Monday. Weak, of an effeminatetemper, which seldom brings a man ofhonour.On Tuesday. The person born will be,,subject to violent starts of passion, noteasily reconciled ; and if a man, given to!illicit connections which cause misfor¬tunes to rise; and he will be in danger ofdying by violence from them.On Wednesday. Shall be given tolearning, and profit thereby.On Thursday. He shall arrive to greathonour and riches.On Friday. He shall be of a strongconstitution, and perhaps hscherou*./16On Saturday. This day is a bad day,though the child may come to good.They are of a clogged disposition.Of the four elements, and of the four com-,plcxioiis of men.These four are the elements:— A i a-,Earth, Fire, and Water.The twenty-four hours of the day andnight rule sanguine, choierick, melancho¬ly and phlegm, according to Ptolemeus. %* . ^Horn a man may L now whether himself onfriend waxing sick, shall live or die.The 6th and 16th day. of March, shaltthou draw blood out of thy right arm...The 11th of April out of thy left arm.:*In .the end of April out of which arm Ithou wilt, and especially against a fever ;Vand if thou dost, neither .shalt thou losethy sight, nor shalt thou have any fever 1so long as you live.' And whosoever on ■March is let blood in the right17rin, and on the 10th of April in the left,hall recover.—On the 4th and last days>f May, if let blood in both arms, noever snail ensue.Whosoever, on the first day of thenon'th falls into any infirmity, is in dan¬ger the three ensuing.day$, which pass’di shall escape thirty-six days. Whoso-er falls sick the second day, though helong sick, yet he shall recover. Heat falls sick the third day will recoverxt change. If on the 4th, if he sur¬ges the 20th he shall escape. If theh, though he suffer grievously, he shallcover. If he fall sick on the 6th,inough- he seem to be headed, yet on the15th of the next month he shall be dead.He that falleth sick on the 7th, if be beHit well on tlie 12th he v/ill not recover.If on the 8th, the 9th, or the 10th, heball he delivered, with diffi'culty the nmctlay. He that is sick on the 11th day,except he be delivered in two days, willdie on the 15th. He. that takes sick onthe 12th 6r 13th day, until the 18th dayhe shall be sick, if he pass which he willrecover. He v that falls sick on the 14thday, will recover on the next. lie thatfalls sick on the 15tli day, except he re-18cover within fifteen days he shall dieHe that falls sick on the IGth day, shallnot recover. He that waxeth sick orithe 17th day, though he lie ill twenty- !four days, on the twenty-eighth he shallbe well. He that falls sick on the 13th 1day, shall die by the 19th of next month: 'He that falls sick on the 19th, shall soon srecover. He that waxeth sick on thlSOth shall likely escape. He that wax¬eth sick on the 21st, in five days shall be:well. He that waxeth sick on the 22d!or 2$d days, shall be delivered within tenidays. He that falieth sick on the 24thday, though it be with grievousness orpain, in another month he shall be de¬livered. He - hat falieth sick on the 25th• day, on the 27th he shall recover ; yetnevertheless he shall die in the nextmonth.. He that falls sick on the 26ihday, though he suffer a little, yet willescape. He that waxeth sicks on the,27th day, though he suffer the remainderof the month, yet in the next he shall bedelivered. He that falls sick on the 28thruns great hazard of death ; as also onthe 29th. He that sickens on the SOthshall recover; but if on the 31st it isdoubtful.19i A Night Spell to catch Thieves.| The following will drive away any evil|>infc that haunts houses or ether places;jpd having it about you, no thief canjnrm you ; but if he comes to rob a gar-en, orchard, or a house, he cannot go11 the sun rises. You must have in thefur corners of the house this sentenceiritten upon line true virgin parchment:imnes Spiritus lauilet Dominum MosemI habe,pophetas exerget Deus, dissipari interj inimicos.yBut if for a garden or orchard, it muste placed , at the four corners thereof j[id if to keep one from being robbed onle road, to h«ve it always about him,nd fear God.If your spell be set in the hour ofSars, which you may know by thisDok, you may be assured of success inour endeavours to catch a thief.If any one think there is harm in it,st him not use it; for my part I cantnd none.He that covets the love of a woman,nust court her in the hour of Venus,., .20and he will gain more love than at an;other hour., '    How to judge-of the Disposkion by meanof the Features.-'  Of the Head.I warn you to beware cf persons wKwant or have any default of their mefthers, or have the——*, and of a mawho has no beard; for s^uch persons aninclined to divers vices and evils, anfone should esche\>f their company as aienemy.Plain hair signifies. a person pitcou iand debonair.They that have red hair are commonbireful, an*d lack wit, and are of little truth [iBlack hair is a good colour, and signifies the love of justice; and if it be hare j,it shews the }Vefs6n fores concdrd', and. fof a good and subtile wit1.A man v/ith black hair, and a recbeard,' has ths signs of lechery and* eljustice.* Especia’Iy of women who have tliese qualities.Black hair and cmp shews melancholyid lechery.Hanging hair shews malice.Great plenty of hair on a woman shews>yetoiisnes3.A person with great eyes is slothful,jedient, and desirous >to know moretan he doth; hut when your eyes are)t too big nor too small, it shews they*e strong, and of a good and courteousjhaviour.Of the Forehead.The forehead fmoo'th, a flatterer, appli-1 to the fawning dog. The forehead bigid wrinkled, bold, and applied to theA high forehead, liberal, appliedthe lion. An over-wrinked forehead,3id of bashfulness ; if the forehead beery big, slow, and applied to the ox.f round, to be dull of apprehension, andpplied to the asj3. If plain, to be cir-umspect, and applied to the ass or theog. A square formed forehead, bold,nd applied to the lion.* The Eyes.The eyes small shew shame-facedness;row much bigger the eyes so the less/22maiice but the more folly. The eye:large, standing out, foolish, fearful, antimmodest. Eyea disorderly, roving, totrash, and unquiet in mind. The eye-litquavering, fearful. The eye movinjswiftly, with a sharpish look, fraudulentunfaithful, and a tiiief. The eye stedfastly looking, troubled in mind, and ideceiver. The eye very wide open, extremely imprudent.The Nose.The nose round, with a sharpness a'the end, wavering of mind. The nosecrooked like the eagle’s bill, too bold!The nose flat, 'echerous and full of pas¬sion. The nose large at the end, desirous of what they see. The end of thsnose sharp, fierce, and full of wordsa? a sword, a rolliug eye, a smiling coun¬tenance, and a scarlet nose, as rightlusty Roger, an artist of the school .Venus, and a lover of the female sex. !Horn to make a powder to cause a personfall in love with you.Take neetle seeds and juniper berries,33Ijiry them, that they may be beaten tof jowder; and ealsine or burn in the fireme claw of a crab, that it may be donee like withal: Mix these powders, fine-sifted, together, and give as much’asill lie on a silver penny, in any liquor toie party and it will produce wonderful ef-tcts without doing any harm by whichhusband or wife, through prudent man-gement, may be easily obtained.CONCLUSION.I wish good trading and good health! To all, where’er you dwell;Inch honour aye and much good wealthTo all who wish us well.et no distractions now abound,‘ Nor whig nor tory longer grumble ;*ut let the glass go cheerful round ;Yet for their sins let all be humble.finis./LIST GF HISTORIES.NO, 1.—Fairy Tales, p. 1.3'.—Faii-y Talcs,' p, 2.g.—Fairy Tales, p.4.—Jane Shore.Ali Cogifi.C,—Ali Baba.7. —Lothian Tom.8. —Leper, the tailor.9?—Chevy Chace.10. -—Waterloo^11. —-The Coalman’sCourtship.12. —L. of Cool’s GhostIX.—Moll Flanders.14.—Wife of Berth.JS.*—Fodr Robin, themerry sadder.1 G.<—Fallyrk-s CarVichesf17. —Cr4Ey Jane. .18. —Fair Rosamond.19— Doctor Faustus.20— Friar and the Boy.NO. 21.—History of Sir T' ' Wtall^ce.22. — Banjfylde MccCarew.23. —Wise Willie arWitty Eppie.'24. —Jack, the GiantKiller.£5.—John Cheap, tChapman.26 —The Mighty GiaTravi, andWiis Mail■ Leaf.: :£7.—George Buoiana28,—The King and tiCobler.29—Royal Riddle BoSO.-—Dream Book. ;31. —Life of Kaggnii32. —Robert J^won-sProphecies.?3—Simple John.S(c. 4-c.' 4 c. ' 'A Large Assortment of the most Popular BALLADS,, SONG'S, PALTERS, ^c.