THE[No. 8.SORROW-DISPERSER,HUMPY FUNNYDOSS’DLE OF MIRTH.CAREFULLY REVISEDBy JACOB SIDESPLITTER, Esq.I AUTHOR QF ‘ LAUGH AND GROW FAT,’ ‘ THERe’s NAKSORROW HERE, JOHN,’ ‘DULL CARE BANISHED,’ &C.EDINBURGH:PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY J. BRYDONE,SOUTH HANOVER STREET.THE SORROW-DISPERSER.A negro having purchased a hat was observedto take it from his head on the fall of a showerof rain, and to manifest considerable anxietyto preserve it from the wet. On being remon¬strated with for his supposed stupidity in thusleaving his head exposed, he wittily observed,‘ Hat belong to me—head belong to massa.1May is considered an unfortunate marryingmonth. A country editor says, that a girl wasasked, not long since, to unite herself in thesilken tie to a brisk chap, who named May inhis proposals. The lady tenderly hinted thatMay was an unlucky month for marrying.‘ Well, make it June, then,’ honestly repliedthe swain, anxious to accommodate. Thedamsel paused a moment, hesitated, cast downher eyes, and said, with a blush—‘ Would ntApril do as well VCheating a Frosty Road.—On a cold frostymorning, an unfortunate spalpeen was late inhis attendance at school, when he was severelyreproved by his masther. ‘ Faith, sir,’ saidyoung Pat, ‘ it was no fault of mine at all atall. The road was so slippery, that every stepI took forward was two backward,’ ‘ Oh, youbig blackguard, how can that be! If you hadwalked that fashion, you never could have gothere by any manes.’ ‘ No more I would, sir,and so I played the road a trick; I turned myback on the school, and made it believe I wasgoing home again.’The Difference.—‘ How do you like the coun¬try f said a lady to a little boy from the city,who was visiting some relatives in the country.THE SORROW-DISPERSER.o‘ I like it very much,’ said the lad, ‘ becausehere we get cow’s milk, but at home we only| get milkmen’s milk.’Loss of a CharacUr.—The following anecdotewhich we give exactly as the fact occurred,i may be considered as an illustration of simpli-i city and integrity. A respectable farmer of! Ross-shire, travelling a short distance on horse-I back, having occasion to cross the river Conan,j found on the banks of the stream a youngwoman also desirous of getting across. Shei informed the farmer that she was in quest of ai situation, and had an excellent character fromI her last place. As the river was high, theI good-natured farmer took the girl up behindI him on his horse, and conveyed her over the,| water. Unfortunately, however, the writteni certificate of character fell out of the youngi woman’s breast, where she had placed it for1 safety, and was carried off by the stream,i She was in great distress at this mishap, tillher kind conductor assured her that h« would: give her a character; and this pledge he re¬deemed, on their arrival at a house on the op-I posite side, in the following brief but pithy| words :—‘ 10th Sept. 1833. These certify thatJ the bearer, Peggy M‘Kenzie, lost her charac-1 ter this day, while crossing the river Conan^ with me, Andrew Monro.’ We need hardlyt add, that this very equivocal statement wasgiven in perfect good faith and sincerity* Thegirl accepted it with many thanks, but wassoon convinced that the honest farmer’s wordsdid not correspond with his intentions, andthat she required, what it is generally difficultto obtain, a new character.‘ Dear me, why does that bald gentleman4THE SORROW-DISPEKjBER.walk abroad with his hat off?1 Why, becausohe wants a little fresh hair, to be sure.An Irish tailor, making a gentleman’s coatand vest too small, was ordered to take themhome and let them out. Some days after, thegentleman, inquiring for his garments, was toldby the ninth part of an Irishman, that theclothes happening to fit a countryman of his,he had let them out at a shilling per week.The Young Woman's Consolation.—A villagepastor was examining his parishioners in theirCatechism. The first question in the Heidel-bergh Catechism is this—What is thy onlyconsolation in life and death ?’ A young girlto whom the pastor put this question laughed,and would not answer. The priest insisted.‘Well, then,’ said sho, at length, ‘if I musttell you, it is the young shoemaker that livesin the Rue Agneaux.1Vy is a red-hot poker like a celebrated poet ?Because it Burns.A Pertinent Query.—Mrs W , notwith¬standing her professional powers, displays solittle knowledge on general subjects, as to haveobtained the sobriquet of ‘ the inspired simple¬ton.’ She had the misfortune to meet an acci¬dent in travelling, which accelerated her ac¬couchement, and she became the mother of aseven months’ child. She was weeping, andexclaimed that the infant would not live, whenMr W consoled her, by assuring her, that ihis own grandfather was a seven months’ child, si‘ Very likely, my dear,’ said the weeping beauty;‘ but did he line ?'It is said that her Majesty gives Prince iAlbert half a crown by day, and a sovereign atnight.THE SORROW-DUPKRSEK..5A gentleman, waiting in the ante-chamberat the Exeter Concert-Room, inquired of theattendant what was the nature of the perfor¬mances, adding, that he supposed they weremiscellaneous ; to which the other immediatelyreplied, ‘ No, sir, I don’t think she is here ; butthere’s Miss Holdaway and Miss George, andseveral other excellent singers.’‘ J im, how does the thermometer stand to-| day?’ ‘ Our’s stands on the mantel piece, rightagin the plasterin’.’Teddy Maguire was a witness in a case asi| to the quality of oatmeal. Counsel wished toI make it appear that when bad oats were broughtI to the mill for sale they were refused by thebuyer. ‘ Did you ever see Mr Murdock returnuoats?’said Atherton. ‘ Yes, yer honour.’ 1 Onj what ground did he I’efuse them ?’ ‘ In the backI; yard !’ said Teddy.‘A sweet return,’ exclaimed the husband,v when his wife threw the sugar basin at him.Why is a drunkard hesitating to sign the[pledge like a sceptical Hindoo ? Because he isin doubt whether to give up the worship of thejug-or-not.Dr Samuel Johnson, when travelling in In-werness-shiro with Boswell, addressed a man atwork in a peat-moss. ‘ How far are we fromFort-William, friend ? I think we have beenI deviating the last half hour.’ ‘ Like enough,’(replied the man,) ‘ but I’ve been dicothig herosin’ six o’clock this morning.’A Witty Hill-Sticker.—On a gate in the neigh¬bourhood of Horton, the broadsides have beenso judiciously arranged by the bill-sticker, thatjrhe heads read in the following order :—Bucks.^Mr Stephenson will shortly sell by auction, inTHE SOKKOW-DlsU’ERsSEK.sone lot—The Itepresentatives of the County—together with three Cows-in-Calf—Lord Chan-dos, Young, and Harcourt—The Malt Tax—The Nobility and Clergy—The Church—A goodstock of Tory humbug—and many other usefularticles.‘ My son, hold up your head, and tell me whowas the strongest man f ‘ Jonah.1 ‘ Why so V‘ ’Cause the whale could not hold him after hegot him down.’A Jew was observed noticing very intentlya prodigious fine pork ham. ‘ What are you ,saying to that ham, Master Jacobs ?’ ‘ I wassaying to it, thou almost persuadest me to bea Christian.’A New York paper says, ‘ We once heard ofa facetious person, whose name was New, whobaptised his first child Something, as it wasSomething New. His second was baptisedNothing, it being Nothing New.’Two friends, who had not seen each other Ifor a long time, meeting by chance, one asked jthe other how he did. He said he was not Ivery well, and that he had got married since I!he saw him. ‘ This is good news, indeed,’ saidhe. ‘ Not so good neither,’ replied the other,‘ for I have married a shrew.’ ‘ That is bad,indeed,’ said the other. ‘ Not so bad neither,’ Jsaid he, ‘ for I got two thousand pounds with dher.’ ‘ That is w7ell again,’ said the other. !‘ Not so well neither, for I laid it out in sheep, jand they died of the rot.’ ‘ That was hard, Jindeed,’ said his friend. ‘ Not so hard neither,’said he, ‘ for I sold the skins for more money {than the sheep cost.’ ‘That made you amends,’ ^said the other. ‘ Not so much amends neither,’ Csaid he, ‘ for I laid out my money in a house, sTHK S0KH0W-DISPEB8ER.7and it was burned.’ k That was a great loss,indeed,’ said his friend. ‘ Nay, not so great aloss neither, for my wife was burned in it.’Why are cowardly soldiers like butter? —When exposed to v. fire they run.A wit being once very low in pocket, andmeeting with a lord, who was walking, thoughtto wheedle him out of a broad piece, and, com¬ing up to him, said, ‘ My lord, I had a strangedream last night, and now half of it is out ; forI dreamed that I met you here, and that yougave me a broad piece/ ‘ Well,’ said his lord-ship, ‘ I will make out tho other part,’ and sogave it him. ‘ But stay, now I think on it,give me that, for it is a piece my mistress gaveme to keep for herself.’ Scroggin readily re¬turned it in hopes of a better gratuity. ‘ Now,’said my lord, ‘ I’ll tell you my dream, that itmay be out likewise. I dreamed that I gave afool money, and he had not wit enough to keepitand so passed on, leaving Scroggin toscratch his ears, and fretting to be so out¬witted.The Weight of Light.—An old lady, remark¬able for the confused idea of the meaning o.words, described a clear summer evening thus :—‘ It was a beautiful bright night; the moonmade everything as light as a cork /’‘ Boy, what is your name ?’ ‘ Robert, sir.’‘ Yes, that is your Christian name ; but whatis your other name ?’ ‘ Bob, sir.’A few evenings ago, Mr , a magistrate£ at one of the police-offices, hired a cab for the|| purpose of journeying a few miles out of town.■ ‘ How much is the fare ?’ said his worship. ‘ Vy,’pi said the cabman, ‘ as I’ve seed you afore, I shan'tb charge no more nor a crown.’ ‘ That’s too much,sT11K S< MS ROW • l > IS P!: K ,S 1 ’ I!.man,’ exclaimed Mr —, ‘ as you'll not be morethan an hour going.1 ‘ Yell, now, and s’pose 1does it in an hour, I ought to have vot I hax,and I’m sure yer vorship oughtn’t to grumble,for you fined me five bob t’other day, and war’n’tmore nor half a minute about it!’‘ How do you do, Mr Smith f ‘ Do what f‘How do you find yourselff ‘I never losemyself.’ ‘ How do you feel V ‘ Pretty smooth,1 guess—feel me, and see.’ ‘ Good morning,Mr Smith.’ ‘ Good ! No, it’s rather a badone—it’s wet and nastv.1»!Iloio did it happen ?—A remarkable pheno¬menon occurred a few days ago on the Brigh¬ton Bail way. A gentleman and lady were sit¬ting opposite to each other, the lady, having apiece of court-plaster on her lip. On emergingfrom one of the dark tunnels, marvellous to re¬late, the court-plaster was observed to havepassed over to the gentleman's lip '{Why is a man with his eyes shut like anilliterate schoolmaster l—Because he keeps hispupils in darkness.A Sailor's Notion.—A sailor, seeing some ofour domestic slave-traders driving colouredmen, women, and children, on board ship forNew Orleans market, shook his head and said,‘Jim, if the devil don’t catch them fellers, wemight as well not have any devil.1A man boasting about his knowledge of theworld, when a wag in company asked him if hehad ever been in Algebra? ‘ I cannot exactlytell,1 says he, ‘ but 1 think I once passed it onthe coach.1Struggle for Precedence.—When George Bar¬rington, the celebrated pickpocket, was highconstable of Botany Bay, at a grand ball givenTHE SORROW-DISPERSER..0by Grovernor Hunter, a dispute arose betweentwo ladies, who wished to take precedenceof each other. ‘ Ladies,’ said Barrington,‘ patience; I will just consult the NewgateCalendar^ and the lady that was first transportedshall take the highest place in the room.’ Therewas no occasion for G-eorge to consult his re¬gister ; every lady who heard him pressed tothe lowest seats, and the upper part of the roomwas left untenanted.A very modest lady, who was a passenger onboard a packet-ship, it is said, sprang out ofher berth and jumped overboard, on hearingthe captain, during the storm, order the crewto haul down the sheets.It is a historical fact, that Charles I. wasbeheaded with his own consent,. How wasthat ? Because he was axed whether he wouldor no.‘ That may be a very good portrait of Boz,’said one to another, while looking at one ofthe numerous engravings of the renownedDickens—‘ but what a curious nose it has ! Itis turned askew.’ ‘ So it is—the artist cer¬tainly had not drawn a nose worthy the faceof the author of Oliver Twist !’ ‘ I don’tknow that—for the nose itself is decidedly allof a twist."'Why may Prince Albert be considered aj saving and frugal personage ? Because he laysby a sovereign every night.‘ Think there’s any danger, mister meanagee-iryman, for that Boy Contracted V ‘ Oh no,said the man, ‘ the sarpent don’t bite, he swal¬lows his wittals whole.’‘ Don’t be so taking,' as tho thief said whenthe officer arrested him.10THE SORBOW-DI£PEH«En.A jrentleman was at his banker’s, and ob¬served a littlo boy present a cheque at thecounter. The clerk put the usual question tohim—‘ How will you take it ?’ to which the boyreplied, ‘ In my pocket, sir.’Half Price.—A witty Hibernian, just arrivedin London, and wandering about, perceived ablanket at a shop door, with this inscriptionon it, ‘ This superior blanket for half price.’Pat walked in, and demanded the price ; ‘just5s., sir,’ replied the shopkeeper. ‘ By my sowle,and that’s chape enough !’ And so, foldingthe blanket up, and putting it under his arm,he laid down 2s. 6d., and was walking off. Theshopkeeper intercepted him, and demanded theother 2s. 6d. ‘ Didn’t you say, you spalpeen,that the price of the blanket was 5s.? And,sure, hav’n’t I given you the half of it? Andby that same token, I won’t give up my bargain.’A scuffle ensued, and Pat was taken to BowStreet; but when there, he pleaded his causeso ably, that the magistrates dismissed the com¬plaint, and advised the shopkeeper never againto ticket his goods at ‘ half-price'Why was Queen Victoria, before her mar¬riage, the most popular composer ? Becauseher Overture to Prince Albert was known allover Europe.‘ Well, that beats me out.’ as the rye saidwhen the fellow hammered it over the headwith the flail.It was quite amusing, a day or two since, tosee a white n*an sawing a cord of wood, whilea black fellow stood looking on, with his handsin his pockets, giving directions. The gentle¬man to whom the wood belonged just steppedup, and asked Pompey why the white man wasTHE SORttOW-DISPERSER.11doing the work which he (the black) had beenengaged to do ? ‘ ’Cause mo hire him for dejob,’ said Pompey. ‘ Ah ! and how much doyou give him V ‘ Four and sixpence.’ ‘ Howis that ? you are to have but four shillings, thei usual price.’ ‘ Oh, nebber mind, it's wort six-| pence to be gemman beetle ickile /’‘ My lark is on the sea,’ as the cur-dog saidi when they threw him overboard.The Peers and the Pledge.—The Marquis ofWaterford, Lord Waterpark, Lord Rivers Lordi Brook, Lord Lake, the Marquis of Bath, andi the Duke of Wellington, are meditating the; propriety of ‘ taking the pledge.’ The Earl<! of Fitseci^iam, Lords Portland, Portman, andI Portfarlington, Viscount Beerhaven, and LordIAlesbury, shake their heads, and won’t haveanything to do with Father Mathew.Cause of Colei.—A wag of a tailor in Balintorethinks it must be mighty cold (a regular Ame¬rican phrase) in Abingdon, ‘for they have nothermometer there, and it gets as cold as itpleases.’!A lady at sea, full of apprehension in a galeof wind, cried out, among other petty exclama-itions, ‘ Wo shall all go to the bottom ; mercyon us, how my head swims !’—‘ Zounds, madam,never fear,’ said one of the sailors, ‘ you cannever go to the bottom while your head swims?An Accident anticipated.—Amidst the evolu¬tions of the Glasgow Volunteers one morningon the Green, Colonel Hunter was thrown fromIhis horse. Being immediately suriounded bya crowd of sympathizing friends, who eagerlyinquired if he was hurt, he very quickly allay¬ed their anxiety by crying, ‘ Oh, never mind ; [was coming off at any rate !’12THE SORHOW-DISPERSER.Chaps.—A pretty girl was lately complainingto a friend that she had a cold, and was sadlyplagued in her lips by chaps (cracks or clefts.)‘ Friend,’ said Obadiah, ‘ thee should neversuffer the chaps to come near thy lips.’Which is unquestionably the most numerousprofession ? D’ye give it up l Why, dyers—for all mankind die.A Cheshire farmer was lately asked by theminister how it was that, when he preached,the farmer always fell asleep, but when astranger preached, he was all attention. Thefarmer replied, ‘ Why, sir, when ye preaches,1 know aw’s right; but when a stranger comes,1 canna trust him, and so I keeps a good look¬out.’A young man of the name of NecJc was re¬cently married to a Miss Heels; they are now,therefore, tied iVech and Heels together.A lecturer at one of the chemical schoolsiattached to the University of Dublin askedone of the students if he could ‘ plate steel.'‘ No,’ replied'the witty collegian, ‘but I couldsteal plate.’A gentleman, who had an Irish servant, hav¬ing stopped at an inn several days, previous tchis departure, desired to have a bill, which be¬ing brought him, he found a large quantity o:port placed to his servant’s account, and questioned him about having so many bottles owine. ‘ Please, your honour, (cried Pat,) reachow many they charge to my account.’ Tingentleman began, ‘ One bottle port, one dittoone ditto, one ditto.’—‘ Stop, stop, (cried Pat,they are cheating you ; I know I had some otheir port, but I did not taste a drop of theiditto.' otm vtin tnUo ^nirnTHE SOKROW-DISPERjiEn.13One day during term time, as a solicitor, ofmo gentleman-like appearance, was passing near,Lincoln’s Inn, with his professional bag underthis arm, he was accosted, by a Jew, with ‘ Clowsito sell, sir, old clows V The lawyer, somewhatnettled at this address, from a supposition that11Moses mistook him for an inhabitant of Duke’sPlace, snatched a bundle of papers from hisibag, and replied, ‘No, sir; they are all newsuits.’‘ Recollect, sis,’ said a tavern-keeper to a:[gentleman who was about leaving his houseiwithout paying the ‘ reckoning,’ ‘recollect, sir,I if you lose your purse, you didn’t pull it out| here.'A gentleman returned from India, inquiringof a person respecting their common acquaint-| ance, who had been hanged after he had left| England, was told he was dead. ‘ Did he con-ii. tinue in the grocery line ?’ asked the former.‘ Oh, no,’ replied the other, ‘ he was quite in aI different line when he died.’L When does a school-boy’s writing-book re-1 semble the hero of Waterloo J—When it’s aI Well ink'd un (Wellington.)I Soon after Dr Johnson’s return from Scot¬land to London, a Scottish lady, at whose househe was, as a compliment, ordered some hotch-\ potch for his dinner. After the Doctor hadjj tasted it, she asked him, if -it was good l Toi which he replied, ‘ Very good for/’ ‘Then,pray,’ said the lady, ‘ allow me to help you to alittle more of it.’J Why is an Aunt letter than an Uncle ?—Doyou give it up ?, If you follow the example ofthe ant, you will never want the assistance of‘ my undo /’ (the pawnbroker.)nTHE SORROW- DISPERSER.An Irish colonel of a volunteer corps, whohad long been a confirmed bachelor, excitedmuch pleasantry by haranguing his men, ‘ Gen¬tlemen, we are all assembled this day to defendour wives and our children.'’An arch boy having taken notice of hisschoolmaster’s often reading a chapter in theCorinthians, wherein is this sentence, ‘ Weshall all be changed in the twinkling of aneye,’ privately erased the letter C in the wordchanged. The next time, his master thus readit, ‘ We shall all be hanged in the twinkling ofan eye.*A lady, some time back, at the BritishMuseum, asked if they had a skull of OliverCromwell. Being answered in the negative,‘ Dear me,1 said she, ‘ that’s very strange, forthey have one at Oxford.’’An Irish doctor advertises, that the deafmay hear of him at a house in Liffcy Street,where his blind patients may see him from 10till 3.‘ Are you looking for any one in particular,1as the rat said to the cat when she was peep¬ing down his hole.In Warrington, a professional gentleman,named Badley, has a sign-board which exhibitshis name and calling in the following terms:—-Bones Badley Set.JVo Gentleman.—'- You mustn’t smoke here,sir,1 said a captain of a north river steam boatto a man who was smoking among the ladieson the quarter-deck. ‘ Mustn’t—Eh ?—whynot ?’ replied he, opening his capacious mouthand allowing the smoke lazily to escape.‘ Didn’t you see the sign—‘ All gentlemen arorequested not to smoke abaft the engine?”THE SORROW-DISPERSER.15‘ Bless your soul, that don’t mean me. I’mnot a gentleman, not a bit of it. You can’tmake a gentleman of me no how you fix it.’So saying, he sucked away, and ‘ took the re¬sponsibility.’‘ I’m losing flesh,’ as the butcher said whenhe saw a man robbing his cart.A jockey at the Maze races, England, askedan emigrant Yankee if they had any sitch re¬markably swift horses in America ? ‘ Swift !’said Jonathan; ‘why, I guess we have—I’veseen a horse at Balimore, on a sunny day, startagainst his own shadow, and beat a quarter ofa mile at the first heat !’‘ A specimen of the coloured race,' as the fel¬low said when he saw two negroes running.A Counterfeit.—A fellow pretending to be ina fit, was carried from the street, in New Or¬leans, into a grocery store and laid upon thecounter, where brandy was poured down histhroat, and he recovered. A wag, happeningto be present, said the fellow was a rogue, andthe fit was a counter-fit!‘ One bumper at parting,’ as the man saidwhen he ran against a post.A farmer, in the neighbourhood of Doncas¬ter, was lately accosted by his landlord thus—‘ John, I intend to raise your rent.’ To whichJohn replied—‘ Sir, I am very much obligedto you, for I cannot raise it myself.’Twopenny Rope.—‘And pray, Sam, what isthe twopenny rope?’ inquired Mr Pickwick.‘The twopenny rope! sir,’ replied Mr Weller.‘ It is just a cheap lodgin’ house, vere the bedsis twopence a night.’ ‘ What do you call abed a rope for ?’ said Mr Pickwick. ‘ Blessyour innocence, sir, that an’t it,’ replied Sam.THE SORROW-DISPERSER.*16‘ Yen the lady and gen’lmen as keeps the hot-elfirst begun business, they used to make the bedson the floor; but this wouldn’t do at no price,’cos, instead of taking a moderate twopenn’ortho’ sleep, the lodgers used to lie there half theday. So now they has two ropes, ’bout sixfoot apart, and three from the floor, which goesright down the room ; and the beds are madeof slips of coarse sacking stretched across ’em.’‘ Well,’ said Mr Pickwick. ‘ Well,’ said MrWeller, ‘ the advantage o’ the plan is hobvious.At six o’clock every mornin’ they lets go theropes at one end, and down falls all the lodgers.Consequence is, that being thoroughly waked,they get up very quietly and walk away.’Why are London females unhappy at threequarters past seven ? Because the mails leaveat eight.A sea-officer, who had lost his hand oy agrape-shot, was in company with a young lady,who remarked that it was a cruel ball which de¬prived him of his hand. ‘ A noble ball, madam,for it bore away the palm.’‘ Aint I a burster,’ as the boiler said to thesteam-boat captain, when it blew him sky high.‘ Thou art false to me,’ as the man said tothe plank, which let him down into the water,as he was about to step into a steam-boat.‘ My son,’ said an affectionate mother to herhopeful heir, who was in a short time to bemarried, ‘ you are getting very thin.'' ‘ Yes,mother,’ he replied, ‘ I am; and I expectshortly that you will see my rib.''‘ That’s smart,’ as the boy said when theschoolmaster administered the cane to him.‘ Come over the moon-light sea,' as the smug¬gler said to sundry casks of Hollands.THE SOKROW-DIKPEHSER. 17Love at Sight.—A servant girl, of no strongi intellect, who lived with a lady in the neigh-J bourhood of Paisley, one day surprised her mis-:! tress by giving up her place. The lady inquir-: ed the cause, and found it was that fertilei source of dissension between mistress and maid-i servant—a lad. ‘ And who is that lad V in-i quired the mistress. ‘ Ou he"s a nice lad—aI lad that sits in the kirk just forenent me.’j ‘ And when does he intend that you and heshould be married V 11 dinna ken.’ 1 Arej you sure he intends to marry you at all V ‘ Ii daur say he does, mem.1 ‘ Have you had muchi of each other’s company V ‘ No yet.’ ‘ Wheni did you last converse with him V ‘ ’Deed wei hae nae conversed ava yet.1 ‘ Then how should| you suppose that he is going to marry you V' k Ou,’ replied the simple girl, 4 he’s been langI lookin’ at me, and 1 think he’ll soon be speakin’.’‘ I’m in for a duck,'' as the man said when heI: fell into the river.A witty gentleman of Philadelphia observ¬ing a citizen, who had lost an arm, passing,said he presumed he might be called an off-handi man.‘ I wonder how they make lucifer matches,said a young married lady to her husband,about six weeks after they were married, andwith whom she could never agree. ‘ The pro¬cess is very simple,1 he replied ; ‘ I once madeone.’ ‘ Indeed ; and pray how did you manageit V 1 By going to church with you,1 was thebrief and satisfactory explanation.Vy is an oyster like a celebrated poet l . Be¬cause its Shelly.•4 Fare reduced,’ as the man said who dinedon a single cracker.IS THE SORROW-DISPERSER.During an examination of a black servantin the Catechism, he was asked by the clergy¬man what he was made of. ‘ Of mud, massa,’was the reply. On being told that he shouldsay—‘ of dust,1 he answered, ‘ No, massa, it nodo—it no tick together.1‘ What a horrible scrape I am in now,’ asthe fish said to the woman who was rubbingdown his back with a knife.‘ Master Buggains, come up and tell me whowas Cleopatra !’ ‘ Cleopatra was the sister toone of the Pyramids of Hegypt, and come toher unhappy eend by swallerin1 of a wasp.1‘ Good boy, good boy ; you’ll be a Gibbon oneof these days.1‘ Friend of my sole,’ as the old boot said tothe cobbler.The following naivo lover’s promise was of¬fered as an irresistible temptation to a filially-given inamorata :—‘ I like you,1 sighed thegirl to her suitor, ‘ but I can’t leave home.I’m a widow’s only darling ; no husband canever equal my parent in kindness.1 ‘ She iskind,1 pleaded the wooer ; ‘ but be my wife;we will live all together, and see if I don't beatyour mother .,1An apothecary, being with a large companyof his neighbours, boasted that a patient, whohad been many months confined to his bed,under the care of another apothecary, was outin twenty-four hours after he had begun to at¬tend him. ‘ Yes,1 replied a person present, ‘ Iknow that to be a fact; I met him yesterdaygoing to be buried.1‘ Pat,1 said a gent, to his servant, ‘ what’sall that noise in the street!1 ‘Oh, nothing,sir; they’re onlya man to turn volunteer.'*TIJK SsOllBOW-DISPEESER. 19A young lady asked a widow her opinion ofi matrimony. ‘ Oh, madam,’ answered she, ‘ itv would be a heavenly life, if the honeymoon7 would last always.’A justice of the peace, seeing a parson on a■ very stately horse, riding between Highgateij and Hampstead, said to some gentlemen whowere with him, ‘ Do you see what a beautifulhorse that proud parson has got 2 I’ll banterhim a little. Doctor,’ said he, ‘ you do notfollow the example of your great Master, whowas humbly content to ride upon an ass.’‘ Why, really, sir,’ replied the parson, ‘ theking has made so many asses justices, that anhonest clergyman can hardly find one to ride,if he had a mind to it.’A tailor sent his bill to a lawyer for money ;the lawyer bid the boy tell his master he wasnot running away, but very busy at the time.The boy came again and told him he mustneeds have the money. ‘ Did you tell yourmaster,’ said the lawyer, ‘ that I was not run¬ning away 2’ ‘ 0 yes, sir,’ answered the boy,‘ but he bade me give his compliments, andtell you that he was.’The junior counsel, who opened the cause ofCount D’Eon, concluded as follows :—and weshall now call witnesses to prove that he is she.A very agreeable lady of the name of Riggs,being last season at Margate, in a house withsix others, and only one gentleman to attendthem ; when, on regretting that there wece notmore of the male creation, says a sprightlylady, one of the party, ‘ if we complain of notbeing well manned, I am sure we are wellrigged.’A sailor, half-groggy, passing along th« streetIthe Sorrow-disperser.20or a certain sea-port town, discovered over anadmiral’s door an escutcheon, and very natu¬rally took it for an alehouse. The gentleman,a ruddy-looking portly man, standing at thedoor, he clapped him on the shoulder, ‘ Hallo,landlord, you look like an honest fellow, giveus a cup o’ the best.’ The gentleman, to carryon the joke, ordered his servant to bring himsome beer ; which being done, the jolly tardrank towards his master’s very good health,and inquired what was to pay, which the offi¬cer told him, he might settle the next time hecame that way.An apothecary ordered his pupil to mix upsome medicines for one of his patients, then ingreat danger ; and, on his recovery, expatiatedat large on their virtues to the pupil, who ob¬served, that he thought it by no means impro¬bable that the patient might have recovered assoon without their use. ‘ Impossible,’ said theapothecary ; * and pray what could encouragesuch an opinion.’ ‘ Why,’ replied the youngman, ‘ T forgot to send them.’A Cork Almanack informs its readers, thatthe principal republics in Europe are Venice,Holland, and America.A person had his fortune told by an astro¬loger. After having, by the help of ambiguouslanguage, unfolded to this man the events ofhis life, past, present, and future, then thesoothsayer asked for his usual gratuity. ‘ Howis it,’•said the inquisitor, ‘ that you pretend toknow hidden things, and are ignorant of mynot having a penny in my pocket TA girl of the town, in Dublin, walking thepavement in pursuit of her ‘ avocations,’ hadthe misfortune to be known bv a watchman, toTHE SORROW-DISPERSER.21whom she had omitted to pay the ‘ usual tri¬butes,’ when the fellow immediately draggedher off to the watch-house, without any osten¬sible provocation. She was brought before thepolice magistrate next morning, when the noc¬turnal guardian charged her with the heinouscrime of walking in the streets the precedingnight. ‘ And your soul to the gallice, wouldyou have me walk on the house-tops ?’ said she.An Hibernian, being asked if he liked salmon,answered, ‘ Yes, pickled ; for,’ said he, ‘ if I goto market and buy a bit of fresh salmon, it isso stale that it is not fit to be eat.’An Irish schoolmaster being asked what was; meant by the word 4 fortification,’ instantly an-fi swered, with the utmost confidence, 4 two twen-ll) tifications make a fortification.’An Irish officer, just returned from the WestI Indies, was dining with Ur Harvey, and several! medical men in Dublin. The conversation turn¬ed upon tropical climates; and the officer, whoseopinion was asked about that of the West In¬dies, said, 4 It is an infernal place; and added,i; that if he had lived there until that day, he■ would have been dead of the yellow fever twoyears ago.’ Another of the physicians, withoutobserving the bull, very gravely added, thatI 4 the climate was certainly unwholesome, and thatgreat numbers died there.’. 4 Very true,’ saidDr O’Donnel, 4 but if you’ll tell me the countrywhere the people don’t die, I will go and endi my days there !’A gentleman observing the common crier of; Bristol unemployed, inquired the reason. 4 Ican’t cry to day, sir, as my wife is just dead.’A member once remarked in the House ofCommons, that the French were the most rest-22THE SORROW-DISPERSER*less nation in the universe; very shrewdly add¬ing, ‘ they will never be at peace till they areengaged in another war.1The wife of an Irishman having been seizedwith severe pains, he immediately set aboutwriting a card for the doctor; but before send¬ing it off, the woman had so recovered that avisit from him was considered unnecessary, and,opening the card, wrote the following:—P.S*You will not require to come now, as she isquite better.A young fellow, not just so wise as Solomon,eating Cheshire cheese full of mites one nightat a tavern,—‘ Now,1 said he, ‘ I have done asmuch as Samson, for I have slain my thousands,and ten thousands.1 ‘ Yes,1 answered one ofthe company, ‘ and with the same weapon too,the jaw-bone of an ass.1A prisoner being brought up to Bow Street,the following dialogue passed between him andthe sitting magistrate :—‘ How do you live V‘ Pretty well, sir; generally a joint and puddingto dinner.1 ‘ I mean, sir, how do you get yourbread V ‘ I beg your Worship’s pardon ; some- Itimes at the baker’s, and sometimes at the chand¬ler’s shop.1 ‘ You may be as witty as you please,sir; but I mean simply to ask you how do youdo f ‘ Tolerably well, I thank your Worship :I hope your Worship is well.1Three gentlemen being at a tavern, whosenames were More, Strange, and Wright, says thelast, ‘There is but one cuckold in company, andthat’s Strange."' ‘ Yes,1 answered Strange, ‘ hereis one More' ‘ Ay,1 said More, ‘ that’s Wright.'An old schoolmaster, who usually heard hispupils once a-week through Watt’s ScriptureHistory, and afterwards asked them promiscu- -THE S0HR0W-DISPER3EH.23ously such questions as suggested themselves tohis mind, one day desired a young urchin totell him who Jesse was ? when the boy brisklyreplied, ‘ The Flower of Dunblane, sir.’A sea-captain in this vicinity brought homea sable African, who had never before seen sucha thing as ice. One morning Sambo came ini with a large piece, exclaiming—‘ O, massa, seei what a big piece of glass me found.’ ‘ So youi have,’replied thefacetiousmariner,‘but it’s wet;take it to the fire and dry it.’ Down went Sam-i bo>to the kitchen fire, but soon returned withhis eyes vastly dilated, and great astonishment: otherwise depicted on his countenance, vocifer¬ating, ‘Why, massa, such glass I neber did see;the more I dries it, the more it grows wet.’A dashing foreman to a Glasgow tailor, din-ii ing in a mixed company, wished to impress thosepresent with the immense importance of his ser¬vices to his employer. ‘ Though I say it, thatshould not say it,’ quoth snip, ‘ if it was not fori me, my master could not carry on his business.’‘ 1 can very well believe you,’ said one of theparty; ‘ I never yet heard of a tailor who could: carry on his business without his goose.’I When the great fire took place in London, agentleman remarked to his friend that it wasin consequence of gluttony; and as a proof ofhis assertion, he stated, that it commenced atPye Corner and ended at Pudding Lane.A gentleman of Cork ordered his man to callhim up at six o’clock ; but he awoke him atfour. Being asked the reason, he replied—I: came to tell you that you have two hours toi sleep.A Frenchman meeting an English soldierwith a Waterloo medal, began sneeringly to21THE 8ORR0W-DISPEBSEBanimadvert on our government for bestowing .such a trifle, which did not cost them threefranca.’ 1 That is true, to be sure,’ replied thehero, ‘ it did not cost the English governmentthree francs, but it cost the French a Napoleon.’An American physician announces that hehas changed his residence to the neighbourhoodof the churchyard, which he hopes may prove |a convenience to his numerous patients.‘ What is light ?’ asked a schoolmaster of the |booby of a class. ‘ A sovereign that isn’t fullweight is light,’ was the prompt reply.A forward young lady was walking one morn¬ing on the Steyne, at Brighton, when she en¬countered a facetious friend. ‘You see, MrDebenham,’ said she, ‘ I am come out to get alittle sun and air.’ ‘ I think, madam, you hadbetter get a little husband first,’ was the reply.There is a man so absent that he mistookhis wife for a pair of bellows, and alleged histhorough conviction of the illusion, by her al¬ways blowing him up instead of the fire.Can you spell blind pig with two letters ?Why P G, to be sure; that’s a pig without anI, isn’t it ?Zachariah Macaulay had a servant whom hepurchased at Sierra Leon. One morning, asCudjoe was lying in bed longer than usual, hismaster called out to him, and asked him whathe was about ? ‘ I am doing some head work,massa.’ ‘Head work—what is that?’ asked.Zachariah. ‘ Why, massa,’ continued Cudjoe,, J‘ suppose three crow on dat tree, and massa,:fire, and kill one, how many left ?’ ‘ Two, ofcourse,’observedZachariah. ‘No, massa, wrong;dere,’ replied Cudjoe, shewing his teeth, ‘ de:other two fly away.’