THE. , 5f'factor's garland,' Part I. Being a tru« Account how a young man fafterhaving rioted away part,of his eftate) became bailorI to feveral merchant# in London. How he found theI corpfe of a dead Chriftbn lying on the ground in Tur-1 key. and gave fifty pounds for its bum1.Part TI- How he freed a young woman from beingftrangled, and brought her to Loodon.1 Part HI. And how by a yei of her flowering, th»Prince came to hear of hi* daughter.1 PaIT -V. How he was betrayed, caft over board, andwhat way and manner he was preferred, and broughtto the. Prince’s palace, and married to the damfel, 8t jIN F jUR PARTSTHE FACTORS GAEL AND.FART /.BEHOLD here’s a ditty the truth and nojeft,Concerning a young gentleman liv’d in the eaft,Who by his great gaming came to poverty.And afterwards went many voyages to fea.Being well educated and one of great wit,Three merchant in London they all thought it fit.To make him their Captain and Faflor alfo,And tor them' d v6y'a£e to urke- be did go.And walking along the lire els there h. found.A poor man's dead corpfe lying-6n the ground.He a Iked the reafon why it thert did lie ?Then one bfthe natives did; make this-repfy-That man was a^hrlhaft fir, while he drew bWsJtThe dufy's unpata he lies above the earth.Wh) what is r. eduty she F-s&or he cry d,It is fifty poun s, fir, the urk he replied.That is a grea' fum quoth the F .ftor indeed,To fee him lie. theye. .makes, my heart to bleed ;So then by.the F after cne m; ney was paid, _Anb under the earth <iVie dead carcaie was laid.?v\ hen h'-.vr g gone funlier by chance he did fpy.A beauti ,ul ct'-a uvt, wft going to die,A v dung waiting nc^aid ^ho ttrangled miift b‘6, ^For nori ing tut ttri. mg I urkifli ladyTo think o’ her lying With grief he was till d.•’hen rivers of tears like yv -ter diftilld,Like ftreiims of a fountain trom her eyes ran downJLr red rofv cheeks, and from that to tbe ground^Hearing what lhe .crime w. s he to end the ftrife.Said what mull 1 give for th s poor, creature s life .The anfwer was return’d an hundred pound.The which for herj'unfom he freely paid clown*Hie laid foirell creature thy weeping refrain.And be of good comfort, thou fiialt not be ilain.Behold l have purchas’d thy pardon will yeBe willing to |_o to fair England with me.She faid,Sr, 1 thank you who freed me from death,I I’m bound to obey you fo long’s I have breath;And if you are willing to fair England I’l go,| And due relpe&s to you till death 1 will Citw.TART 11,HE brought her to London where it is faid,He fet yp houfe keeping, and made her his maid,o wait upon him and finding her juft,i With the keys of his riehes he did ber mttuft.| At laft the young 1 after was hired once more,I To crofsthe proud waves and billows that roar,| And into that country hi* eGurk to fleet,i 'Which by this maid’s father was govern’d, we heaiiI Being a hot country this maid did prepare,i So get light robes in that country to wear,I He bought a filk waifteosrt the which it is told,I His firt^aut maid flowered with filver an ' gold.She laid to him, Mailer, l do underhand,! You arr going r aftor into fuch a land,| Aftd if you that Prince’s court jrnter in.' Be fore let this fine flowred garment be f«en., He faid, to that Prince’s court 1 muft go,| The meaning of your words I wHh for to know,j Sir, I will not tell you, foroe reafon you’ll find,With that he reply’d I’ll fulfil thy mind.hen away he tailed and came to the fhore,'The Faftor he came to the Emperor s door.For it s the ufual cuftom of this placeyTo prefent fome noble gifts unto his Grace.His gift was accepted of, and as he flood by,On his flowered garment the Prince call an eye,Which made him to colour, and thus he did fay*Who flowered thij garment now tell me I pray ?If it pleafe your Grace my left voyage to Turkey,Where I faw a lady that flranglecl muft be.And to fare her life gave a hundred pound.And carried her with me to fair London town.There Ihe’s my houfekeeper while I’m in the land,And when of my corning {he did nnderftund.She flowered this robe an ' gave Arick-charge to me,To let it be feen to your great M jefty.The Prince cry d, behold friend, the robe which I wearIs of the fame fpot and flower 1 do fweat,Thy maid wrought them both, (he’s my daughter dear,1 have not heard from her till now thefe three year.To pay a vifit to forae neighbouring Prince.I fent her in a {hip and have not feen her fmee.And I was afraid the fea had prov d her grove.But { heard to Turkey flte was taken a Have.For the lofs of my child wham I thought had beenkill’d,A well full of tetrs in my court had been fpill'd,‘JMy Princefa, her mother, could for her not reft, jHer lofs dre?’ m llions of fighs from her breaflr.The {hip fhall be richly loadi d with fpeed,And I’ll fend a {hip for her convoy indeed;Becaufe of th» love, thou fav’d my child s life.Bring her alive to me, I'll make her thy wife.And if thou ftiould’ft not live to bring her to me,Who e er brings her home his bride (he fliall be,And twenty thoufand a year ye fhall have,That ventur’d my dear child’s life for to fave.The Slip being loaded their anchor was weigh’d,A d he with his convoy came over the main.To fair London city, and home he did go,And gave the y oung Princefs thefc tidings to know.FART nhAnd v<#ur royal parents the thing hayf ^In the bond of wedlock v/e bothftiould be join d.Perhaps noble lady you wou d n*t agree.To marry a poor man, efpecially me;Sir, t* ere you a beggar 1 would be your wife,Becaufe when juft dying you faved my We.1 ne’er fhall forget that great token ol love.Of all men now breathing 1 prize thee above.Since it is fo ordered I’m well pleas'd I vow.And glad my dear father thele things dotl» alioPray fell of your goods that you have in Hore^And give all your money to thofe that are poor.And let us be jogging with me o’er the main.Frr I long to fee my dear parents again.This thing was foon done, and they failed away.In the (hip that her father lent for her convoy.But mark what wa afte on the ocean wide.To deprive the Faftor of his royal bride.The Captain who conveyed him over the deep,! One myht as the Fa&or was laid in his deep,! Being under fail over board did him t row.! Saying now I fti dl hsve this young creature I know.There happened to be a fmaii illaad at hand,1 To which the Fa&or fwam as 1 undtrftand.And there we leave him a while for to mourn.And unto the flftip now again wc 11 return.Next morning then as foon as day light did peep,He waW the voung Princefs out ot her deep,And faid nob! lady the Faftor s not here,He’s fallen o’er board anci drowned I fear.‘ To hear the fad news her ey es did flow,6There’* none here that can help it'-fto not troubled be.For you in lliort (pace your parents ihall fee.And when that they carae to the defired port.This Princefs came weeping to h«^ father’s cou^t.Who glar'ly received her with joy and great mirth.Saying, where is the man that freed you from death ?The captain re ply’d, as he fay afieep,He fell over board and was drown d in the deep;Your Grace faid ¥he man that your child home did bringWould have her. I hope you’ll perform this thing, 'Y> s, that was my promife, the monarch replvyWhat fay’ll: thou my daughter! wilt thou be his bride ;She faid, Yes, dnr father, but firft if you pleafe.For im th .t faw*d my life I*il mourn forty days.Then into .cloft mourning this lady went.For the lofs of her good friend* in tears to lament,And there I will leave her in tears for a while.And then to the P'a&or who was left in the ifle.P4RT IV. '■f N this defert Ifland the Faflor he lay,■“ In floods of te»r& ! eeprng two nights and a day.At ength on the ocean appeared in bis view.A little old man paddling in a «anoo.The Fa&or call’d to him, which caus’d him to (lay,And drawio * near to him the old man did fay.Friend, hotfr cam’ll thou hither? with eyes that did flowHe told him th- fecret, and where he wou'd go.That old mdh'fald to hi'h if here thou dot! lie.With grief and hu'ng r i v (hort time hou wilt die^What wilt thou giv if to that court I thee guide,i have nothing to givt you the Factor reply’d.If *hou wilt prbm.fe and be true to me.To g;vt the firll babe that is born unto thee.When thirty months old to that court ?11 the-i bring,I will not releafe /ou Vfithout that v«ty thing.The Fa&or'eonfidered that thing would, caufeAnd w ithout it for him there was no reUeUHe cry’d, life is fweet, and my life for to lave.Carry me to that place*and your will you fball have.So fuon he was carried to the courts and then^He came to the gates, he faw his lady then,Looking out of her window- who feeing him there.From lor row to joy titml ported they were,He into the court then with joy was received,Whefe the bdV met him, who.for him had grieved.And faid nw dear jewel, my jpy and my desi^0 ! where have you tarry’d i 1 pray let me hear.. Where fo long he tarry’d he then did relate,lAr.d by what means he came to her,father’s gale* ^|He faid l was thrown overboard.in my lleep,1 think -twas the Captain .threw me .into the deep.With that th^'Capu'm waft for «ith Ipied,And hearing the was come there indeed.To (hew him Cell-gdilty like a cruel Wave,Leapt Ihto.the ocean which proved his grate.Next day with great joy and, triumph we^find.The Faftor and kdy in marriage were jo'iiva,And within the compafs and fpace of .t^ree years.They had a fine Ion and a daughter we hear.The fon was the tirft bum a perfe^Feauty,And was well beloved of the whole family.When thitty months old came the man for his child,Who releafed the Fa&or from his defert ifle.When the Faaor faw him his eyes they did flor.Then gave his lady and parents to know.He was forced to make 4iat.pp.^nife onlyIn the defart ifle.jeft he wltlrWi^.r Ihould die.I With a grim look the old man did appear,JWhich made the court tremble and fill’d them with fear,.(Crying, What (hall *e do? fure hes rot a man,He will have our darling, do all that we can.He faid it,™ promis'd, and Nllnve W *l=iThere’s one bah; for me and another f|>rj»“ •I will have your firft born come ^ve, him to me.At whicti all the family wept out rly. , ni. 'The babe s mother cry il, I*m gneV d to the he t.To think that 1 with.fuch a dear infant mult par ,To one that ihould carry him Lord knows whereAnd perhaps in pieces my darhng ».U tear.With that (lie embraC-d him and down the tears . iAn^Sving kifs^d him, (he bade h- are well,Saying, it 1s for the fake of my hu band. that IDoy part with my firft born though for him t^e.,So then the grim ghoftto her hulbanddid fay,Sir, do you remember, in Turkey one jYou faw a dead man's corpfe lymg on the ground,And to have it buried you gave ^Sir, l »m the fpirit of that dead body,- I faved'your life for that great love to meYou may keep your babe, aad God blef. >ou all.Then a wav it vaniflicd out of me narU v,B ng gonc, the „,d Prince and the Pcncefs hsew.CThe babe’s tender parents with tearsWith joy they embrac’d their darhng yosng f ,iin joy L y , ft we had been undone,S*S P * idfe"« fkloEjo, and great mir.To lore Ine another while God nivea them breath,And now by this Faftor we may fee indeedNo mortal can prevent what Kate nas decreed.finis.