T ^ £sf EW PRO VERB %ONThe Pride of Women;OB. THEV'anity of this world difphyea.PARTS FIRST AND SECOND.to which is added,t excelbrvt Receipt to all young men who wantiWiv^?, howtojwale them by the mouth as Mungodid his Mare. Afo a defer ption of the vain G^lswho wear the Crazy J nes, which h nc over ch4Daclc of their hea ls 1 ke a Chimney-fweeper'stnight-cap; or a bibiy Jock s fnoul.T H BNeio Proverbs on the Pride cf Women,X> »'XXXX> i <><>000« XM.XXX>4>< < <XX-X3»'A Woman who has haughty looks, is under thffintention of a plague, even pride. She is ignorant of;herltlf, and thinks as much ais fhe is her own maker,|always defpifing her fellow creatures, as if ilie wasnot of the ferd of Adam.Her eves being always bjnt upwards, towani3-the fkies, in my opinion, fuch women come from tl|world of the moon, and lock backwards towards thti;native country3. S e who is parton full of pride, is empty cvirtue. O hew wife in her own eyes is (lie ! eloqneljui fpeecli, expert in law without experience.4. He that joins with fuch a woman, binds himto be a ga ley flave all the days of his life ; he mijight againfi wind and waves, and tow her togravt’s mou h, iflhe link not; for fne cannot be loli5 Woe’s me! for many women are weighed dowith folly, lifted up with vanity, and deeply woundei!being fo in love with themle)v< s that their heal] ine away with h'tred and lorrow, becaule theneighbours are exalted above them.o. This is a lore evil which cleaveth to the dangters of live, handed down from mother to dau^hefrtm one genera’ion to anothery. No 1’ooner have they got judgment to difebetween th.e right hand and the left, but theycarried awav to be taught by M idam Vanity,daughter of Lucifer, who brings them into thelege of Contradiction, .which Hands in the townContention :8. Here they are catechised in all the arts of bosings, fuch as painting of the face, and phitirg of <hair, and fixing thele high crowned crps andhead drdles, piled on their heads like a bet fcv 1( 3 )- a quoil of hay, anJ even kilting their petticoats> the rump.9 Come all ye dumb brutes, cats, dogs, and other"features and <b;ho!d'a foolith people, walking on' rth, as if they were not of the earth, decking theiriipdies with brats, ard their bellies whh beef, and yetfjpu in rough (k'ns.-feem as ccmely in your kinds, andiore obedient to your Maker and mailer than they.10. Come, come ye Ullies of the field, and rofes ofre garden, and behold bow queens, prince ties, andruotefles, are counterfeited by poor ciipfarts of va-[ity, going to church with ths robes of unrighteouf-efs round their runqde; wi.h a difplayed banner!f painted hypociify in their right hand, toputrd:peir faces from the fun. O but the Lillies oullhinelaffes for beauty : the rofes rej*ice and afFroatam, whi'e they, like howlets, bide their fares fromhe beams of the (un, as if their faces were fifh, andftjhcir hides hind’s tongues i they abhor the brightearns thereof as a cat does mullardit Many of thefe women are more dangerous;han the mouths of devouring cannons ; though theyppear as angels in the church, they are as ferpentsn the (heets, and as Beelzebuo abas'e the blankets ;rVoe’s the man that mam s fuch a woman, h<? hadetter be wedded to his ftaft, and go to bed withhe beetle in Lis bolom.c h a r. ir.E who ge s a fcolding wife, and a mortifyinggoodmotber, had far better be buried a ive ithe one Vi ill cry Ptm deaf, as d tKe other willwafie his money and hi* meat ? fill his belly withvittd and Ids healt v. i.h furrow till with hungerand anger he will die a double death every d^y.2. He that marries a g -.tie wife without a weigh-"jty purfe of gold, or as good a portion, binds him-jfeif to be hts lady’s pige, his o,vn fervant, captainiClout’s coachman, and Mr. Poverty’s poftilicn, aLi Utg days of his life.j. The caie of fuch a woman is to dothe hantiquity : if her hufband fbculd go naked, fhe labours!with ber tongue, not with her 1 ands, deferibing thgenealogy of her forefathers, the gentlenefs of heblood and offer hufband’s dd'cent, who never came,to honour and poverty till he came to her,4 He that weds for money is a miter, and he forbeauty i fool ; bu* he that fur virtue and the other two •is wiler than the weaver w ho took a wife and wouldhave nothing becaufe he had nothing of his own.5 And the reafon was, becaule his wif might fay,I have made thee rich witn my tocher, when thou had{nothing a‘all.6 He that marrier? a widow for her pelf, had betterjrarry a whore if ihe be handfome and wholefome ;for the widow will be upbraiding him «ifh the wealthand ph ature (he had with lier former hufband, who isalways the heft, becaufe he is gone.y Whereas the whore wit be afiiamed to fpeakof hei former pleaf’ures, b^caufe they were ftolen,Imuggled and unlawful ; but rather fhe will rejoice,love, and effeem thee, when flie enjoys the famewithrut fear, fcandal, fliame or reproach.8. He that marries a widow, let it be with onewho had a hufband that gave her blows on everyii le for her breakfaft. and was hanged for ftealing,that fhe may have to (ay fhe had got the befi: hufb nrdto hrr laid And if thou do cot fo, thou art a poorwretch, I’ll warrant you, ,CHAP. u.IF is mold natural for every fex to have a defire to¬wards its fellows, and without the compu.iy ofeach other they have ro mutual hsppinefs.2 Is it not reafonable for thee, O man ! who art*refolvet) to join thyfelf to a wife, that thou join thyhome toge her firld by a mathematical order, withSGupus and cUii>foiling above, and plenith it below.{ 5 )3 Go to the bircis, and be not bVindfolded, whodid their neft, lay their eggs btfore they hatcheir y ’ung de not fo fooiiih, as to have a child,fo>t you have a wife, nor a wife before you havejhoufe to hold h r tn.14. Stuff thy hotife with all manner c f furhiturec ff.iry tor the fan.iiy, marj-y thy w ife in the paddingn h. apd thou Hsalt have wartnnefe all the winter.5 Beware t f uoning ri>o fjft. left you com.^-to fall,•the fair fex have (hurt herb, and often fat! back-irds when hearing of the voice of wedlock 'Voon-away, for ti e joy of a relief long looked for ;hold them not wfu-n thev turn up their ten toes,• thou f h in o th nap from wi ence there is not urning without co.emitting great w eke, nets.|6. But when th< u eoeft to choofe a wife, wale herthe mouth, as tViungo dkl his raare ; for by her•llrds you may know w. ether fhe be a wife womana fool.It (he be poor, proud, and prideful., turn thek of your hanu to her, and your f:ce to another;fhe is the worft pennyworth ever came into a.r man’s pack- Iheet yea happy is he that goes homeh *he teotn halter Without her.But if you chance to admire the charms of one0 is black and lovely, decent and oilcreet, honeftlife vi tuous, tho’ never fo poor ; cleave thou unto herllall me ns, for fuch a woman will hold thee as herId and hufbind. then lhalt thou reign as a king1 r thine own houle, and all thy family lhall bseft unto theefor if thou marry one who thinks hc-rfelf wiferthyfilf, the will ufurp your authority, counter-hd thy orders, and hold rhee more like her monkeyher hufband or mafler.o Keep not private company with a woman that1 great linger, mr a girl who is game-like, forrolling of the eye and the fweet»e(s of the vdice,ncur :ge men to commit wickedncfs.}. lake not a wife that is tear-minded fn f'cb( 6 )commonly is urchafte difpofed, fjon ang’-y, and as fioipleafcd, eafiiy periuaded to t!o any thing j and whe:tempted, will not hand to harnify ycur head ; for fadare live loufc.’s children.la Neither do ye encounter with one who & tallfor iuch long people, when they fall, are too heato rife. But the N ft way under the fun is to martand lo continue. Look b^ck to dortv maidens, artgive t^em the fcorrful catal gue as follows :13 O ye haughty maids, mock my proverbs, aI’ll mock your pride high for a man when it is tlate, and fend f't him wlun he wi 1 not come. Yof mg in youth is, “ I'm o’er young to marry yet)until the wrinkles rife on your face like the backa ram horn, and have but one tooth, bound in w\a rag ! Then m Tea chanter of ytur thumbs, atdronrs of ycur lingers and play.Fain would 1 marry a man juft now,I’ve loft my time and my lover too14 Athen (halla rattle-lkuior uifturbedalfo, they fay I am beccoiea preacher, and every traiis encroaching upon another Nov he that wondeiat my felly, 1 will wonder at his siifdcm, and theare we even one whh another.The End cf the First Part.P A Pv T. II.COME, O men and minifters, and behold madand foe Mis women, ruiliirg into the bondsw_d'.ock, as the boHadoth into the battle.2. No, no. no holding back, but John Slothe anMaggy Idle muft be married, even becaufe they hp10 nseans but meanneft, 110 teacher but Lift, no vvfut wickednefsj no wealth but wanton tolly . and papride is ali their poffalMn, intitjuiry only excepted.( 7 ^! For he is the honourable laird pf Sluggard-field's> i, and (he is the daupl* er of SI pmylabour.4 ikhold he goeth whIi his garters unbound,*, hisiifom bares holding up his breeches with his hands.5 gct’ Maggy 1° lh^ morning againft the hourafeine, whether it be day-light or not, but not with-J t the power of a pfarl'er, for (he covers herfelfi th her petticoat, and runs to the dung hill ?s a fol-■;r to his atmSjw!o«n alarmed by the drum.. 6. This is the charadler of iwo, which may be’ .iltiplied into million, two by two that (a’l intoifery bymatrimory, and are dea<!'y wcunded bye plague of poverty, for want of a virtuous pre-eJing in themfclves.■if:Iihsir great care is, once to be firmly married,, d then all their cares are dro ned, in the fleepcf, .th, and when they awake, the flame of c-lf loveJ quite out, then they look-up when their eyes arenpened, and feeing them (hock.d with worlily cares,afmolt naked, and next to nothing.8| S. Now they mult work or want, their belly wagesail/ar againft them ; their backs and beds mull beloathed ; their children alio teme upon them, thick,hick if not thrtef Id.9. Tlien fays the hi (band, "What have I done ?work hard all the day to myl if, and g?t r:o wages ;ny belly is never filled with bread, but O my heart$ altnotf like to break with (orrew !to O h-d I been (lil the f rv int of another man,then had I got n,y dai y bread and yearly wa. ef,but no*» I have left good bread and great pltiture,and O but h r beef be a weighty burden unto me:it. Let never a man w.L his wife at the kirk-door, n r pick up a pa r ted image in the market ; as Ihave done to my’dea ly danger.1 -• r fine bufks aretu’ncd into miferable brats jin ft e ad of paintings on her face, a (lough of dung,which is the fx n or a fapleis carcafe, occauoned bythe fcaicity of leone5, an i a Icjniin Is ofpottat.e*4 O mTcrable niadnels, and wicked alteratioy.* ( 8 )occafioned thro’ f nti love, and forward kindnefs.14. What can b worfe in a houfe, than a horngoodwif-, and a hummil goodman, a linged cat, andburnt tiou, having nothing elfe but difpeace and spoet’s portion, wh.ch is perfect poverty15. Here the goodwife’s tongue is a law, and 'hetongs the Tceptre of h r Tupremacy, the childrenhunt th ’ir father as a cur doth a cow in a kail-yard,The wife whifpers him a cuckold, and all the childTen may fay amen, our rr o her’s a whore16. his is the f veeteft of all mufic in the earsof Old Nick, when the goodwiffe’s paffion breaks outlikr a flame againfl her hufband •, and he with viciousb‘ows, in hot rage, j ives her a double downcome;which is C'. mmonly c lied next to murder, if not fo17. Now are the flames of fiefhiy love quenched,and their charity towards each other become as edias clay ; their former love is fmothered to death inthe imok of tneir wrath, and pride is beeonae theirtorment and ruin.advertisement,. Oyez ! Oyez / Oyez. /i' known to vc ujall poor, proud; and fpitefu! peo-JD pfe, that ihey may mourn till their fo; row mendth m; for Deacon Pride, this De’i/s dominie, hasfallen from 'he top of the high tower of vanity i.nothe deep cinch of difgrace And it is h p.-’ by meand m nv o hers, that he fliall never have confidenceto let up his daft like face among honett wth think¬ing people any more in this country ; otherv.ife weof the inclarian heft will oppole his dr£frine, andfend him to Ccnvsener Polite to be his direfler.P I N I S.