Stirling,—Printed fey C, RANDALImScots Piper’s Queriesto R,JOHN FALKIRK’s CARICHES,.MADEBOTH PLAIN ANDI;■ Old Piper John if you defireTTo read at leifure by the fire :f Twill pleafe the Bairns and keep them laughing,And mind the auld Goodwife o’ her daffing.( 2 )THE SCOTS PIPER’S OJJERIES.O. IT7*HAT is the wifeft behaviour of igno-V V rant perfons ?A. To fpeak of nothing but what they know,and to give their opinion of nothing but what theyunderftand.CK What time is a fcolding wife at the befi ?A. When die is faft afleepWhat time is a fcolding wife at the word ?A- When fhe is that wicked as to tear the hairout of her own head, when (he cannot get at herneighbours, a no thro’ perfect fpite bites her owntongue with her own teeth ; my hearty wilh is,that all fuch wicked vipers may ever do fo.Qe What is the effectual cure and infallible re¬medy for a fcolding wife ?A, I he only cure is to get out of the hearing6f her, but the infallible remedy is to nail hertongue to a growing tree, in the beginning of aoold winter night, and fo let her hand till fun-rif-ling next morning, (he’ll become one of the peace-1ableft women that ever lay by a man’s fide.(X What time of the year is it that there is|:moft holes open ?A In harveft when there are dubbles.(X At what time is the cow he a vied ?A, When the bull is on her back.CX Who was the goodman’s muckle cow’scalf’s mother ?A. None but the muckle cow herfelf.Q. What is the liked thing to a man and ahorfe ?A. A taylor and a mare.(X What is the harden dinner that ever a tay¬lor Uid his teeth to ?THE SCOTS PIPER’S QUERIES. 3A. His own goofe, though ever fo well boil’dor roafted.CK How many tod’s mils will it take to reachup to the moon ?A. One if it be long enough.How many flicks gangs to the bigging ofa craw’s nefl ?A. None, for they are all carried.flow many whits will a well made puddingprick need ?A. If it be well made it needs no more.CX Who was the father of Zebedee’s children ?.A, Who but himfelf.Where did Moles go when he was full fif¬teen years old ? A. Into his fixteenth.Ck How near related is your aunty’s good^brother to you ?A. No nearer than my own father.How many holes are in a hen’s doup ?A. Two.How prove you that ?A. i here is one for the dung, and another for'ftthe egg- . / ' .Who is the befl for catching of rogues ?A. None fo fit as a rogue hi pile if.I Where was the ulelulleft fair in Scotlandjj kept ? A At Millgavie.What fort of commodities were fold there ?A. Nothing but ale and ill wicked wives.Ck How was it aboiilhed ?A.. Becaufe thofe who went to it once would| go to it no more.Ck For what reafon ? A. Becaufethere w-as no money to be got for them, but fairbarter, wife for wife, and he who put away a wifer for one Sault, got a wife with two as bad*4 THE SCOTS PIPER'S QUERIES.CL What was the reafon that in thofe days, a Ijnan could put away his wife for piffing the bed,and not for (h—-—g it ? A. Becaufe he couldChute it away with his foot and ly down.What is the reafon now a-days, that mencourt, caft, marry, and re-marry fo many wives,and keep only one in public at lafl: ?A. Becaufe private marriage is become as com¬mon as fmuggling, and cuckolding the kirk, nomore thought of, than a man to ride a mile ortwo upon his neighbour’s mare ! men get will aridwale of wives, the bed portion, and properedperfon is preferred, the did left, the weak to theword, and Ihe whom he does not love, he Ihutesaway with his foot, and lies down with whom hepleafes.Q How will you know the bairns of our town,fey all others in the kingdom ?A, By their ill breeding, and bad manners.Ck What is their behaviour ?A. If you afk them a queftion in civility, ifIt were but the road to the next town, they’ll tellyou to follow your nofe, and if ye go wrong curfethe guide.Are young and old of them no better ?A. All the odds lies in the difference, for ifyou afk a child to whom he belongs, or who ishis father, he’ll tell you to kifs his father’s a—.CL What fort of creatures is kindlied when.they meet ?A- None can exceed the kindnefs of dogs whenthey meet in a market.And what is Collie’s kindnefs there ?A. Fird, they kils others mouths and nofes,fmell all about, and lad of all, they s»re fo kindas tg kift other below the tail. ^ .THE SCOTS PIPER’S QUERIES. 5Q. What is the coldeft part of a dog ?A. His nofe.Q^ What is the coldeft part of a man ?A. His knees.Q^ What is the coldeft part of a woman ?A. The back part of her body.What is the reafon, that thefe three partsof men, women, and dogs, are coldeft ?A. Fabulous hiftorians fay, that there wasithree little holes broke in Noah’s Ark, and that,the dog ftopt his nofe in one, and another thetman put his knee in it, a third and biggeft hole.broke, and the woman bang’d her backfide in it;iand thefe parts being expofed to the cold blall,fmake them alw-ays cold ever fmce.Ch And what remedy does the man take forlithe warming of his cold knees ?A. He holds them towards the fire, and whenitn bed draws his ftiirt down over them.Q^ And what does the women do to warmjftheir cold parts ?A. The married w-omen turn their back-Tidesikbout to the good-man’s belly : virgins, and thofe.going mad for marriage, the heat of their maid-|n-head keeps them warm, old matrons, whirl’dVer maidens, widows and widows bewitch’d, holdiip their coldtft parts to the fire.Q^ And what remedy does the poor doa taketor his cold nofe ? A. Stops|t below h.:s tail, the hotteft bit in his body.Q^ What is the reafon the dogs are worfe on1 hapmen, than on other ftrange people ?rt. It is faid the dogs have three accufations a=.ainft the chapmen, handed down from father toI an, or from one generation of dogs to another *! fhe firft is as old as iEfop the great wit of BalTHE SCOTS PIPER’S qUERIES.bylon, the dog having a lavv-fuit againfl the cafgained the plea, and corning trudging home witithe decreetbelow his tail, av/icked chapman throw¬ing his elwan at him, he let it fa*, and fo loH; alhis privileges thereby. The fecond is, hecaufe irold times the chapmen ufed to buy dogs and kiithem for their fkins. The third, when a chapmaiwas quartered in a farmer’s houfe, that night tndog loll his property the licking of the pot.(k What creature refembles moll a drunkeipiper ?A. A cat when jhe nps milk ; (lie always fmgsand fo does a piper when he drinks good ale.C)^ What is the reafon a dog runs twice roun<about before he ly down ?A. Becaufe he does not know the head of hibed from the foot of it.What creature refembles moll a long leanill looking, grealy fac'd lady, lor pride ?A. None fo much zs the cat, who is contrrrally fpitting in her lufe and rubbing her fac<many of fuch ladies do the biown leather of theijwrinkled chafts.Amongd what forts of creatures will yoobit rye mod of a natural law ?A. The hart and the hind meet at one certaijday in the year ; the broad goofe lays her firlt egon Falterns Even, old bile ; the crows beginbuild their neft the fird of March, old flile ; thflfwans obferve matrimony, anu if the female diefthe inale dares not take up with another, or tnireft will put him to death ; all the birds in genifjrai, join in pairs, and keep fo : but the dove rfembles the adulterer, when the Ihoe-one tun!:old, he pays Iter away, and takes another ; tl:locults obferve military order, arid marchTHE SCOTS PIPER’S QUERIES.(Lands j the frogs refemble pipers and preachers,"or the young ride the old to death.Q. Who are the merrieft and heartiefl peoplen the world ?A. The fcilors, for they’ll be fmging and cur-[ing one another, when the waves, their graves,nre going over, their heads.| CT Which are the diforderlied creatures inMttle ? . A. Cows and dogs,tor they all fall upon them that are neathmoft.! Q_ Who are the vaineft fort of people in thejvorld ? A. A barber, a taylor,young foldicr, and a poor dominie.Q. What is the great caufe of the barber’s vs-A. His being admittedity _o trim noblemen’s chafts, thyke their fculls, takclings by the nofe, and hold a razor to his verymoat, which no fubjeft elfe dare do.| Q. What is the great caufe of the taylorsiride f A, His making of people’s newothes, of which every perfon, young and bid isTend of, then who can walk, in a vainer fliew thantaylor carrying home a gentleman’s cloths.Q. What is the caufe of a young foldier'sride ? A. When he lifts, he thinks be is free|om his mother's corredtion, the hard ufage of a|d tnafter, has a liberty to curfe, fwear, whore,|d do e^ ery thing ; until he be convinced byijur halberts and the drummer’s whip that he$ now got both a military and civil law above3 head, and perhaps worfe mafters than ever.What is the caufe of the poor dominie'sicle ? A. As he is a teacher of the-ung and ignorant, he fuppofes no man knowsiat he knows; the boys call him mailer, there-e he thinks hinftelf a great rnaa,8 THE SCOTS PIPER’S QUERIES.Q^ What fort of a fong is it, that is fung with¬out a tongue, and its notes are underftood bypeople of all nations ? A. It is a fart,which every perfon knows to be but wind.Q^ What is the reafon that young people arevain, giddy-headed, and airy, and not fo humbleas the children of former years ?A. Becaufe they are brought up and educateafter a more haughty drain, by reading fables,plays, novels, and romances; gofpel-books, fuchas the pfaim-book, proverbs, and catechifms, arelike old almanacks; nothing in vogue, but fiddle,fiute, Troy, and Babylonifh tunes: our plain En-glifh fpeech corrupted with beauifh cants, don’t,,won’t, nen, and ken, a jargon worfe than theYorkfhire dialed.Q^ Why is fwearing become fo common a-mongft the Scots people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teachers come fromthe fouth amongft us where fwearing is practifedin its true grammatical perfection, hot oaths neu1flruck, with as bright a iuftre as a new quarteilguinea.Q^ How will ye know the bones of a mafon’jjmare at the back of a dyke amonglt the bones O'ia hundred dead horfes ?A. Becaufe it is made of wood.Q^ Which are the two things not to be fparedliand not to be abufed ?A. A foldier’s coat, and a hired horfe.5This Catechifm deferves no Creed,It’s only for Boys, who will not readOn wifer books, them to inftrudk:Let droll John their fancy cook.FINIS.