T.H EScots Piper's Queries:OR,John Falkirk’s Candies.TO WHIG FI ARE ADDED,... - • •' "y--* 'His Comical and Witty Jokes,I When in Courtfliip with an old Filler’s Wi¬dow, who wanted all the Teeth. Withthe Copy of the Love-letter he fent untoher who is commonly called F—ting Betty.Old Jchn Piper if you deft re! To read.at leifure by the fire ;: ’Twillphafe the bairns and keep them laughingAnd mind the Auld Goodwife o'er duffing.CONCLUDING WITH\The QUAKER ^ CLOWN, a Won¬derful Tale.(G L A S-G O W:■PRINTED BY J. & M. ROBERTSON,•ALTMARKET, 1804.,\( 2 )Tfiis Catechifm deferves no Creed,It’s only for Boys, who will not readOn wifer books, them to inftrud:Let droll John their fancy cook.The Scots Pipers Queries, &c.^ XI THAT is the wifeft behaviour cVV ignorant perfons ?A. To fpeak of nothing but what theknow, and to give their opinion of nothinbut what they underftand.Q. What time is a fcolding wife at thbeft?A. When fne is fall afleep.O, What time is a fcolding wife at thW'Oi'lf ?A. When i'he is that wicked as to tear thhair out of h?r own head, when fhe canget at he; neighbours, and through perfe«ipite bite; her own tongue with her (mteeth; my hearty w ilh is, that all fuch wiclcd vipers may ever do fo.What is the efie&ual cure and infallble remedy for a fcolding wife ?A. The only cure is to get out of the heaing of her, but the infallible remedy isnail her tongue to a growing tree, in the hginning -of a cold winter night, and fo let< . The ScqU PipSr's Stevies. 3lid till fui'i-rifing next rcorninig, fhe’il be-jne oue of the peaceable ft women that} r lay by a man’s fide.1). What time of the year is it that there1; moil holes open.?In hr.Tvefl when there are ftubbies.At what time is the cow hcavieft ?A. When the bull is bn her back.X Who was the goodman’s mucklc cow’s;f’s mother ?V. None but the muckle cowr herfelf.). What is the likeft thine to a‘man andorle?A. A. taylor and a mare,ffc What is the hardeft dinner that ever alor laid his teeth to ? ■A. His own goofe, though ever fo wellI’d or roafted.How’ many tods tails will it tak toich up to the moon ?A One if it be long enough. ‘How many fticks gangs to the biggtnga craw's neft ?A None, for they are all carried,yk How many whites will a well madei tding prick need ?A if it he well made it needs no more.Who was the father of Zebedee’s chil-mrA. Who but himfeif.^ Where dy Mofes go when he wis fulli sen years old ?A. Into his ftxteenth.his foot and ly down.• Qi What is the reafon.now a-days,men court, caft, njarry, and re-martmany wives, and keep only but one in ,lie »t laft ?4 The Scots Piper's Queries.CX How near related is your aunty’s g»|jbrother to you ?A. No nearer than my own father.CX How many holes are in a hen’s dcA. Two.CX How prove you that ?A. There is one for the dung, andther for the egg.(X Who is the bell for catching of rogA. None fo fit as a regue himfelf.CX Where was the ufefulell fair in Sjland kept ? 'A. At Millguy.CX What fort of commodities werethere ?A. Nothing but ale and ill wicked w3How was it abolifhed ?A, Becaufe thofe who went to itwould go to it no more.(X For what reafon ?A. Becaufe there was no money to be-for them, but fair barter, wife for wife,he who put away a wife for one fault, gwife with two as .bad.CX What .was the reafon that in thofe ca man c«uld put away his wife for pillingbed, and not for fli g it ?A. Becaufe he eouM fhute it awayThe,Scots Piper’s Queries: 1 5i. Becaufe private marriage is become asimton as fmuggling, and cuckolding thet no mere thought of, than a.man to ride-lile or.two upon his neighbour’s mare!:i get will and wale of wives, the beii: por-L and propefeil perfon is preferred, the-i left, the weak to the worit, and filei>m he does not love, he fliutes away withfoot and lies dow-n with whom he plbafes.h How will ye know the bairns of cur.a, by all others in the kingdom ?a. By their ill-breeding, and bad man-Jto i^ What is their behaviour f.. If you afk them a queftion in civility,.| were But the road to the next town.I’ll tell you to follow your note, and iflo wrong curfe the guide.- '^ Are ^oung and old of them no better?• All the odds lies in the difference, forbu alk a child to whom he belongs, crr is his father, he’ll tell you to kifs his--r’s a .• What fort of creatures is kindiiefta they meet ?. None can exceed the kindnefs of dogs1 they meet in a market,a And what is Gollie’s cOnduft there?• Firft they kifs other’s mouths and nof-^•melkall about, and daft of all they arend as to kifs other below the tail. *: vV hat is the coideft part of a doa.-;I. His nofe. . vPetr'sa tnes.> The Scots^ What is tlje coideft part of a mansiA. His knees. 'What is the coldeH: part of a wontiA. The back part of her body.What is the reafon, that thefeparts of men, wonten. and dogs areedqlA. Fabulous hiflorians fay, that therejjthree little holes broke in Noah's ark, [3that the clog put ins ilofe in one, and dther the man put his knee in it, a thirdt|biggeft hole brpke, and trie woman bailher backfide into it; and thefe parts bekpofed to the cold blafl, make them alt||cold ever fince.And what remedy does thf manfor the warming of his cold knets ?A. He holds them towards the fire, Iwhen in bed draw's his fhirt down over til^ And what does the women do to wftheir cold parts ?A. The married women turn their b|fide about to the good man’s belly: virand thofe going mad for marriage, theof their maidenhead keeps them warmmatrons, whirl’d o’er maidens, widand widows bewitch’d, hold up their coparts to the fire.4^, And what remedy does the poortake for his cold nofe ?A. Stops it below’ his tail, the hotte:in his body.What is the reafon the dogs areon chapmen, than on other flrange"iThe Scots Piper's .Queries. 7A. It is faid the dogs have three scons againft the chapmen; ha'mled dou ri ijom father to fon, or from one gentr.irion:: dogs to another: The firf! is as old asifop the great wit of Babylon,# the degliving a faw-futt againft the cat, gained the.ea, and coming trudging home with thejtcreet below his tail, a wicked chapmantrowing his el wan at him, he lote it ia’,id fo lofl his great privileges thereby,he fecond is, becaufe in old times the cfcap-fcn ufed to buy dogs and kill them for theiriins. The third, when a chapman wasbartered in a'farmer’s houfe, that night the•>g lofl his property the licking of the-pot.! What creature refembles moft a drmik-piper ?i A, A cat when fhe Tips milk; fhe alwaysigs, and fo does a piper when he drinks:iod ale.4 Q What is the reafon a dog runs twice,itifid about before he !y down ?} A. Becaufe he does not know the head ofs bed from the foot of it.M. What creature refembles molt a long,in, iH-looking, greafy-^-c’d lady, for pride?A. None To much as the cat, who is con-inally fpitting in her lufe and rubbijig her:e, as many cf fuch ladies do the browni ither of their wrinkled chafts.Amongft what fort of creatures willlt>u obferve moft of a natural law ?jiA. ri he, iiart and the hind meet at oneo The Scots Piper's Queries.certain day in the year; the broad gooflj:lays her tirft egg on Fafterns Even, old Itilethe crows begin to build their neft the hr-of March, old Hire ; the Iwans- obferve -nt£trinvony, end if the female die, the matdares not take up with another, or the re:iwill put him to death; all the birds in gereral, join in pairs, and keep fo; but thdove refembles the adoherer, when the (luone turns old,, he pays her a'way, and takeanother ; the locufts obierve military, ordesand march in bands; the frogs refemb)pipers and preachers, for the young ride thold to death. •Who are the merrieft and heartiepeople in the world ?A. The failors, for they’ll be Tinging ancurfmg 011s another, when the waves thegraves, are going over their heads.Which are the difordeilieft ersaturtin battle ?A. Gows and dogs, for they all fall upothem that are neathmoft.Q Who are the vaineft fort of people ijthe world.?A. A barber, a .taylor, a young foldieand a poor dominie. -j^. What is the great caufe of the barbervanity ?A. His being admitted to trim noblemendrafts, thyke their feulis, tak kings by tlnofe, and* hold a razor to his very thrbawhich no fabjefl elfe dare do.The Scots PipeYs Queries. 9r ^ What is the great caufe of the taylor^mde ?1 A. His making of people’s new clothes,if which every perfon young and old is■noud of, then who can walk in a vainerJhew than a taylor carrying home a gentie-,nan’s clothes.1 Q. What is the caufe of a young, foldier’slaride ?j A. When he lifts, he thinks he is free ofaiis mother’s corredion, the hard ufage of a■i»ad mafter, has a liberty to curfe, fwear,thhote, and do every thing; unti[ he be con¬vinced by four halberts and the drumrper’stVhip, that he has now got both a militarvund civil law above his head, and perhapsjrorfe mafters than ever.^ What is the caufe of the poor domi-ie’s pride ?A. As he is the teacher of the young andynorantv he fuppofes no man knows whate knows ; the boys call him mafter, there-jre he thinks himfelf a great man.ijb What fort of a fong is it, that is fungHthout a tongue, and its notes are under-|:ood by people of all nations ?A. It is a fart, which every peifon knows) be but wind.Id?. What is the reafoh that young peoplere vain, giddy-headed and airy, and not folumble as the children of former years ?ft A. Becauie they are brought up and edu-; Ue after a more haughty ftraiin, by reading20 The Scoh Piper’s Queries'*fables, plays, hovels and romances-; gofpebooks, fuch as the pfalm-book, proverb;and catechifms, are like oid almanacks; ntjthing in vogue, but fiddle, flute, troy, anBabylonilh tunes; our plain Englilh fpeeccorrupted with beauitli cents, don’t, won'tnen, and ken, a jargon worfe. than thYoxkihire dialed.PK' Why is fwearing become To commaamong ft the Scots people ?A. Becaufe fo many lofty teachers coiflfrom the louth amongft us, where fwearinis pradifed in its true grammatical perfection, hot oaths new (truck with as brightWire as a new’quarter guinea.Cb How will you- know the bones ofmafou’s mare at the' back of a dyke, amongthe bones of a hundred dead horfes ?A. Becaufe it is made of wood.Which are the two things not to t•fpared, and not to be abufed?A. A foldier’s coat, and a hired horfe.THE END OF JOHN FALKIRK’S -CARICHES.The Comical and Witty Jokes of JOHN FAIKIRK the MERRY PIPER.AN old gentleman and his twro fons, b >ing in a company, his eldeft fon fiting next to him, fpoke a word whi^fa higiy difpleafed his father i for which hisgave him a hearty blow on the fide of tlhead; a well, faid he, I will not lift:■*John TaHtrlts XViily yokes. 11;iojid to iirikc my parents, but he gives iiisJther brother ffiat fat by hita, a blow on thei:ar, faying, give that about by the way oisi drink, till it comes to my father again.1, A laiior being travelling between Edin¬burgh and Linlithgow, which is twelve longitomputed miles; and as he was fetting outn the morning about 'eight o’clock, he fewh vain-like yoang fpark go running pail him,jrakh.be never minded, but kept joggingin at his own lei hire: and as he was goingjuto Linlithgow, about .twelve o’clock, uppmes the young ftjark, and alked the failorthat o’clock it was, why fays the failor, I■X-Q you have a watch and I liave none, whatl it ? out he pulls his watch, ho! faid he,i’s direcUy twelve, and what do yon think,was half an hour after ten or Lcame outiT Edinburgh, l have walked it in an hourlad an half; it is prem* well tript, fays the'iiilor, hut pray fir, what man of bufmefse you ? O! faid he, 1 am a watch-maker,:ivas thinking fo faid the failed, for yourve made your watch to anfwer your feet,jr thele feet cannot anfwer a'right watch.Id I fuppofe your tongue can’t keep timeith either of them, do you remember whereu went pa/l me this morning about eightdock ? O yes, fa:d he, and off he went,1A certain old reverepd pried, being onei^ht at lupper tn a gentleman’s houfe; and: one article haying eggs, the ferver of tSeas ufuai laid a cloth ca every otie’s'i 2 'john Falkirk*s Tllliy jokes.knee, wherewith to.hold their egg in. wh&Slot; when {upper was over, the priefl loofed dow’n between his legs, and feeing tlwhite cloth, thought it was his own fhitail 5 and very flyly (taps it into his breedes, bit and bit, which the lady and her maobferved, but was alhamed to challenge hitfo home he went with the fervet in his breec,es, and knew nothing of it till going to bewhen it fell from him: his w’ife enquirhow he came by it, he could not tell, bwas* furprifed how he came to have mhulk in his breeches than formerly, but pceiving the name they fent it back again, tpriefl pleaded to be excufed, owned himfonly a thief through ignorance.As two maids were coming from the miing of their cows, one of them fteppingver a flile, fell and fpilled the whole pail-'of milk from her head, faid {he, wwill 1 do, what will I do, O faid the otmaid, let it go, who can help it now,ean’t make it up again, it is not your m{he,thinken-head : my maiden-head, faidwere my-maiden-head, I wouldthing of it, many, many a time, I havemy maiden-head with gr£at pleafure. atfwot it ay again, it came back ay to itsplace again, but I’ll never gather up my n-again.tain* ,A great drover who freqtiented a puinn in the north of England as he paffedrepaiTed, agreed with the fervant matt■'John Falkirk's Witty Jokes. ' 131 he houfe, for a touch of love; for which hetjave her a fix and thirty-fliilling piece : Onhe next morning he mounted his horfe,.without afking a biU, or what was to pay;tout fir, faid the landlord, you forgot to paycour reckoning: well minded, fir, faid he,| want my ch •.ige, I gave your maid a fixiand thirty to change, the poor maid is cal¬led on in all hafte, yes faid file 1 got it, butjt was not for that, throws it down and offihe goes; her miftrefs underftood, and gavener the challenge, file told her it was fo, butdie fncmid be up with him; fo in twelvemonths thereafter, he came pad with hisdrove, puts up at the fame inn as formerly;t hen the girl goes to a neighbour woman,!who had a young child about three monthsbid, comes into the company where he was,■jays it down on the table, faying, fir, there’sthe change of your fix and thirty; and a-;way die comes, the child cries, and the bell’s!'ung, the landlord was ready enough to an-wer. O fir, faid he, call her back, for thisvill ruin my family, and crack my credit;iput fir, faid the girl, you thought nothing toruin my character, and crack my maiden-nead; peace, peace, faid he^ my dear, here’spne hundred, and fifty pouad, and take a-vay the child and trouble me no more; wellaid file I’ll take it, and you will make morej)f buying cows than maiden-heads j'fo away'he came with the money, and returned theoorrowed child to its own mother.14 '’Jafai FaUitrk's Witty Jokes: '.Three merry, compaiwons having met 0:1a Saturday night ^at an aie-houfe, (a hattea fhoe-maker, and a taylor,) where the;drank heartily all -that night, and to-moarow until mid-day: and their bets werewho had the lovingelt wife : So they agree)for a trial of their good-nature, that everman fhould do whatever hiss wife bads hhido, as foon as ever he went home: or whdid not as Ihe ordered him, was to paythe reckoning, which was feven and (hpence; or if all of them did as their wivebade them, then they were to pay all alikeSo on this agreement they all c^me awayfirlf to the hatter’s houfe, and in he gatlike a madman, dancing and jumping rounthe floor, his wife at the very time was tafclag off the pot and letting it on the flooJhe ftill dancing about, now fays the wrliding over the pot with thy madnefs, fo higives it a kick and over it went, and tintlaved him, as he had done what his wife badlhim do. Then away they go to the taylor5haufe, and he goes dancing likewife, bthis wife fell a fcolding him : O fays he, mdear give me a kifs? kifs my arfe, you drunken rogue, faid IJie $ then to her he flies anwhips her over to the bed, up with her peticoats and kiffes her arfe before them aland that faved him; then away they wento the shoemaker’s, and in he goes very metry, and dancing about as he faw the orhejtwo do; faying, «ome my dear heart am'yohn Falkirk's Wlity yokes. 15lie me,a kifs? go hang yourfelf you drunk-J dog faid fhe; fo he muft either go and;:ig himfelf directly, or pay all the reck-pg*|An honed Highlandman nof long fince,t much acquainted with the law, fell outnh one of his neighbours, and to the law':y jf.-ent: he employed one advocate, andI -oppofite another, and as they were de-ring it in court before -the judges, thethlandman being there prefent, a friend■ his (Tde, afked him how he thought itImld go, or who would gain the day; in*bd fays the highlandman, his law-manflaks well, and my law-man fpeaks well,hir.k we’ll both win, and the judges wille, for they fpeak but a word now and;;a.A young woman by the old accident hav-; got herfdf with child, was called to theion for fo doing, and after one elder an-ter, examining her how fhe got it, andI ere (he got it, and what tempted her to: it; and no doubt the deel wad get henthe getting it; laft of all the minifter hea enquiring how fhe got it, which runi poor lafs out of all patience about theting of it, fays the pried, tell me plain-where it was gotten ? I tell you, faid fhe,11 it was gotten in the byre, at a cow’sand what other place -do you want tos 1 about ? but faid iie, he did not tie yousithe cow’s flake: no, faid foe, I did notiS John Falkirk's Witty Jokes'.R*;«d any tying, and how far was betw fthe byre arid the houfe ? juft butt and bup and .down two ftaps of a ftane ftair, tlfays the prieft, why did you not cry tofolks in the houfe ? Indeed fir, faid ftiecould not get crying for laughing at it.An old foldier being .on a furlough frthe north of Scotland, -having got no brefaft, fell very hungry by the way, andalehoufe being near, came into a farrnthoufe, and defired they would lell him fobread, or any kind of victuals; to whthe furly goodwife reply’d, fhe never &any bread, and the was not going to begwith him, he had but three miles and a 1tock to an ale-ho-ufe, and he might ma?on, and ihe did fair enough when the gbits of bread for naething to beggars, t((lie gied nane to idle fodgers. he had naethito do there awa’: Hout faid the goodm;gie him a ladle fu* o’ our kail, he’s beenlomebody’s bairn before he was a fodgtWhat! faid (he, there’s not a drop in fpot, they’re a’ in the plate before you : tbgie him a fpoon and let him fup wi’ us: ?foldie-r gets a fpoon, and thinking h^ co;fup all he faw himfelf, the firit fonp he jin his mouth fpouted it back again inplate, and cries out, O my fore mouth,hide’s all of it yet fince I had the clap: tlevery one threw down his fpoon the (oldgot all to fup himfelf ; the wife flood aing and fcolding all the while, and when*"John Falkirk's Witty 'yokes. 17done, burnt both plate and fpoon in the, to prevent the ol^p. So the foidierie off with a fail: belly, leaving the wifeling the goodman’s rigging with a four:ea (tool, for bidding him lap.it churlilh hufband and a virtuous wifetime tell fadly out, becaufe the wife had■n lomething to the poor ; what faid he,trefs I’ii let you know there is nothing a-j t this houfe but what is mine, and you’rete. and you’re very arfe is mine: (i well,l, goodman, tlien you’ll let me have no-ig, tgke it aii and give me peace: So a-| they went to bed, the goodwife turnedback fide towards the gobdman ; and asiyas failingafkrp, the draws up her knock. let’s fly in the gpoaman’s foil t-tafi, whichikciied him. in1 a great fright, as he had11 Ihot; ay, ay, woman, what are ye a-it ? what am 1 about laid Ihe; dear wo-a you’re filing the bed : not I goodman,when my arfe was my own i took care ofand uke care of it now, it’s y'our’s. O!v/oman and clean the bed, and keep-r arfe, an 1 a’ the Hberty yt had before,more if ye want if, ftigh, fcigh, what’s? I’m a’ dirt.A. fnip’s crew beir.g one time in great dif-.Is at fea, by veafon of a violent itorm,being all fallen down to prayer, txpect-^every moment to go to the bottom; there,fpened to be an old gentleman a paffen-,8J on J)oard with them, wi)o had a greatiS 'John Falkirk’s Witty yokes.big red aoi'e with drinking ale and whit!and being all at their 'aft prayers as tthought: a little hoy burft out intolaugTiter: O thou thoughtlefs rogue, faidcaptain, what makes thee to laugh, in feeus all on the point of periihing ? whythe hoy, I cannot but laugh ior to thwhat a fine fport it will be. When we aredrowning, to fee how that man’s redwill make the W'ater biz, when he comesbout it, at which words they aft fell a lauing and cherifhed the crew', fo that they mtanother attempt to weather it out, and ;all fafe afhore at laft.My lovely Bet,The beauty of old age, thy hoary heand louching fhoulders incline to mortal!yet I’ll compare thee to the Eagle that Irenewed her youth, or a leek with a whthead and a green tail, this comes towith my kind compliments, for thekiffesthy lips, and the kindnefs I had to thy Ibed-fellow fidler Par£ my brother pencliber, ah! how we drank other’s health, wthe broe bf the brudket ews, we brou<from boughts of the German Bbors;it’s nonfenle to blow the dead when induft, yet a better Vialer never fcreeded o;filken cord, or kittl’d cat’s try pcs wi’finger ends; his elbows were fupple. aseel, and his fingers dabbed at the jigg:end like a hungry hen picking barley: Ictem of ever few him drunk, if keep hThe Sjfaktr and Clown. 19lom \vhi!ky, and whifky from him ; except,iat night he tryftet the pair of free {tonejrfceches from jofeph the mufon ; and now!.y dear Btfi’y he’s got them, he’s got them,r a tree itone covers his body, holds himw?n, and will do; and now, now, mykinty thing, my bonny, thing, my belt(ratch for martimony, come take me now,ir. tell me now. I’m in an ang'.r, I’ll waitfle langer, 1 fay be clever, either now ornever, it’s a rapture of love which does mejfove, I’ll have a wife, or by my life, if fheijioald be blind and cripple. I’ll fell my win’,•ir her meat and fun, the like ne’er gadei'.>wn her thrapple; fo now Beffy I love you,ind my love lies upon, yon, and if you love!at me again, feme ill chance come upondu, as I’m fiyting free, I’m both in loveid banter, or may your rumple ruft fork‘y I’ve fworn it by my chanter.THE END OF JOHN FALIUJUt’s JOKES.U£ gUAKiR and CLOWN, a WonderfulTa/e.fA Certain clown, named Roger, lovedpyjL the chimney-corner fo much better«ian a church-pew, that he conftandy padTediis Sundays in it. It was fo long firree heiad attended divine fervice, that he-fcarceremembered the colour of the parlor/& caf-i ick. His wife, who heartily wilhed his ab-^|:age was more frequent, took oceafion one. ao The Quaker and Clown. . j |*day to reprefent to him, in the moft emphaiical mamier, what an heinous dime it vr,to neglect divine,fervice. 'She held forth ilong, and fo loud on this head, that he, tiied by her vociferous eloquence, rather thaconvinced by her arguinsnts, determined tleave his beloved feat, with an intention tgo to church. He went accordingly frothome; but. happening in his way to tbchurch, to lee the door of the quaker’s mee?ing open, he went in, fat dowm on a formand fell fall afleep.Aminadab Holdforth, having fuftaine ifome Ioffes, was telling his auditors, thawhatever they gave to him, Ihould be returned twofold. Roger waked, juft as he madthis declaration, and from the meeting to hicottage revolved thefe words in his mind.When he got home, he repeated them tijhi’s wife; telling her at the fame time, thaas he thought it improbable his friend Aminadab Ihould lie, he was determined to makthim a prefent of their cow Cherry; as iwould, according to his promife in the meeting, be returned two-fold.On fhis extraordinary information the poo:woman fet up a.moft difmal outcry : urgingin the ftrongeft terms, that her dear Cherry*:miik was the chief of their fupport: but a!to no purpofe, Roger was abfolutely bent orhis deftgn, and drove away immediately tcAminadab’s, regardlefs of her lamentation:and piteous moans.I he Quaker and Clown. 21' When he arrived at his houfe. Friend A-linadab happened to be at the door. Ro-er dire£tiy dofPd h:.8 hat; and gnawing itsarner, addreiTed him in the following man-(er: Friend Aminadab, Ize brought youlere our cow Cherry, an you pleafes to ac-;;pt an her.1’—<4 Thou art a good fellow/'■^plies Aminadab: “ Here, Sarah, take ourjoneft neighbour into the kitchen, and lett.im eat heartily ; and, hark ye, make him,irink fome of our belt ale.” At theie wel¬come founds, Roger’s heart, leapt with joy.|e was condufted to the kitchen, where heJped his part moft manfully: and, in a cou-|e of hours, w'as fent home as happy as airince.When he came home, he boa fled to hisife that he had already received fumething1 pari of his gift; that ail would be return.1 in time; and that he was certain his friendi-tninadab had fpoken truth; but his wifeiterrupting him in the harangue, with an:cufation of ftupidity, and having foolilhlylined himfelf and her, Roger to avoid fur-ler altercation, retired to bed, and deptiundly till morning.As foon as Roger waked, his ears wferetraded by the founds of moo—moo—mooider his window. He got up; and look-g out, perceived his own cfew Cherry, andminadab «i bull, whom (he hud decoyed.ipme with her. Overjoyed at the fight, heflaked his wife, and informed her of their22 ' The^uaker and Clsrvri.good fortune; and at the fame time up^ra:ing hfnfor her unbelief of words utteredthe meeting; and remarked, that his frie:Aminadab had been better than his worfor he had not only returned his gift twfold, but had likewife given him the b«dinner he had ever taffed in his life.It was then determined to fell the bvland keep the cow. No fooner refolvcd <^han put in execution; the bull was fo!tmd the cow referved for her former ufe.Roger, having fuch fuccefs by goingmeeting, determined to go there again. Tlnext Sunday, being feated as before, he wvery attentive to Arninadab’s diicourfe; antowards the conclufion, he was greatlyftonilhed to hear him pronounce the folloning words: 44 That whereas on Monday kI have loft my bull,, together with a cow -latly made me ji prefent of; whoever can ghinformation of the faid cow and bull, lo■ they may be recovered, fhall receive a crovreward/’This appearing fomewhat myfteriausRoger, he refolved to intimate his futpri;to Aminadab; whom he addreffed accoringly, as he was coming out of the meting. - The Quaker, finding by his difcoutthat he was the perfon who had got both ccami bull, told^him, in a great pafiion, tbhe would the next morning take a rideMr. Ciearcaufe (a juftice of the peace, wiKved at about three miles diftanct*) and iiJ 1The Quaker and CUum. 23| him of the affair. Roger determined to bei»juftices as foon as the Quaker, and fet outtngly the next morning early.| the road, Roger efpied the Quaker’s horfethe door of a fmall hedge ale-houfe, toj he immediately went; and, peeping thro’(low, perceived Aminadab and the landlord'sItraafatfing fome affairs which could not bel abfolutely decent. At this unexpectedRoger was greatly overjoyed, knowing lie(intimidate the Quaker at any time, by let-iim underhand what he was privy to, which) excite the rage of his own conjugal termagant.»er entering the houfe, drank a pint of aleill poflible fpeed; and then informed the fer-hat Mr. Holdforth and he had agreed to ridend fpell, or what is otherwife called ride andl method pradtifed in the country when twoourney together, and have but one horfe be-them ; one riding hrlt and leaving the horfelace appointed; or if neither of them knoway, tying him to the door of fome publicin inch a manner as the other muft abfo-Ifee it; and, deferibing to the people of thethe.perfon they are to deliver the horfe to; inanner they proceed during the whole journey,ger having got poffeffion of Aminadab’s horfb,t to the town where the jmlice of the peacel ami there ftruck up a bargain with a greatjif expedition, and fold it; then waited at thep’s door for the Quaker,or Aminadab, whole corpulency was no greatto his walking, in a fuort time after cameg and blowing towards the juftice’s. Rogerdiately informed him, that being very muchby his journey, and feeing his horfo (land||t a door, he had made bold to ufe him : and,'24 The Quaker and Clown.price for hhn, he readily fold him, thinkC;i to refute a good otFer ; and therefore hiwould not take-it ill what he had done.Upon hearing, this, the Quaker was inpaiTion.; and faid, « Thou villain ! whahaving robbed me of my bull and cow,my horfe !—why—^why fellow, don’t you ’be bang’d —“ I hope not,” replies Rogeihowever that may be, pray friend, •'let meone queftion. What might you be doingtook the horfe?”—“ Hufh! Huih!” crQuaker, in a terrible fright-—“ Never t, what thou halt feen, and I’ll forgive thee athy ways ; and hark thee, take gracs with tRoger bowed, and proceeded homewardas the Quaker moved flowly, determined tchis houfe. When he arrived there, the m. coded him with, “ Well, Roger, how ha,and my mailer made it out—‘‘ Oil! veryreplies Roger, “we’re as good friends aHe bid me go, and take gracs with me.”—“ <cries the may ; “ what, and ail her pigs !”Now, reader, you mult know, grace w;> voiirate fow o£ th'* Quaker’s, who had lattered a fine parcel of pigs. The maid thinher mailer’s intention, turned the fow andter out of the fly, and Roger drove thembefore him.The Quaker’s wife was foon made acq*, with the itflair; and the reception Aminad;with from Iter, when Ihe faw him comewithout his horfe, is better imagined thanfed—But I am credibly informed, that !rangues in the meeting were for fome timvery much larded with inveftives againfthard words—and an immoderate indulge*the paftions. - .GUugou, rrinted by J. fie M. Kftbertion, I So.