THE HISTORY0, iB E A IT T Y jAM) THSBEAST. IGLASGOW;PUBLISHED BY FRANCIS OKU & SONS.UNION CORNER.r^oHALOF SCOTLAKO\ITHE HISTORY OFBEAUTY AND THE BEAST.A few centuries ago lived a ver)' wealthy mer¬chant, who had three sons and three daughters.The education he gave them was of the most su¬perior kind. The girls were all handsome ; butthe youngest was styled the Little Beauty, andhence she was, when grown up, called by thename of Beauty, which made her sisters jealous,—who were proud of their riches, kept only thegrandest company, and laughed at their youngestsister, whose study was to improve her mind.They would only marry to a Duke or an Earl,while Beauty declined every offer, thinking her¬self too young to be removed from her father’shouse.All at once the merchant lost his whole for¬tune, excepting a small country house at a greatdistance from tov/’:, and told his children, withtears in his etes, thoy must go there ana workefor their living. The two eldest answered, thatthey had several lovers, who, they were sure,would be glad to have them, though they hadno fortune ; but in this they were mistaken, fortheir lovers slighted and forsook them in theirpoverty. As they were not beloved, on accountof their pride, every body said, “ They do notdeserve to be pitied; we are glad to see theirpride humbled; let them go and give themselvesquality airs in milking the cows and mindingtheir dairy. But,” added they, “ we are ex¬tremely concerned for Beauty; she was such acharming sweet-tempered creature, spoke sokindly to poor people, and was of such an affableobliging disposition.” Nay, several gentlemenwould have married her, though they knew shehad not a penny ; but she told them she couldnot think of leaving her poor father in his mis¬fortunes, but was determined to go along withhim into the coutry to comfort and attend him.Poor Beauty at first was sadly grieved at theloss of her fortune ; " But,” said she to herself,“ were I to cry ever so much, as that would notmake things better, I must try to make myselfhappy without a fortune.” When they came totheir country house, the merchant and his threetons applied thetnselww to husbandry and tillage;9and Beauty rose at four in the morning, andmade haste to have the house clean, and break¬fast ready for the family. In the beginning shefound it very difficult, for she had not been usedto work as a servant; but, in less than twomonths, she grew stronger and healthier thanever. After she had done her work, she read,played on the harpsichord, or else sang whilstshe spun. On the contrary, her two sisters didnot know how to spend their time ; they got upat ten, and did nothing but saunter about thewhole day, lamenting the loss of their fineclothes and acquaintance. “ Do but see ouryoungest sister,” said one to the other, “ what apoor, stupid, mean-spirited creature she is, to becontented with such an unhappy situation.”The good merchant was of quite a differentopinion : he knew very well that Beauty out¬shone her sisters in her person as well as hermind, and admired her humility, industry, andpatience: for her sisters not only left her all thework of the house to do, but insulted her everymoment.The family had lived about a year in this re¬tirement, when the merchant received a letter,with an account that a vessel, on board of whichhe had effects, was safely arrived. This newsbad likfl to have turned the heads of the twoeldest daughters, who immediately flatteredthemselves with the hope of returning to town ;lor they were quite weary of a country life ;and, when they saw their father ready to set out,they begged of him to buy them new gowns,caps, rings, and all manner of trifles; butBeauty asked for nothing, for she thought toherself, that all the money her father was goingto receive would scarce be sufficient to purchaseevery thing her sisters wanted. “ What willyou have, Beauty?” said her father. “Sinceyou are so good as to think of me,” answeredshe, “ be so kind as to bring me a rose ; for,as none grow hereabouts, they are a kind ofrarity.” Not that Beauty cared for a rose, butshe asked for something, lest she should seem byher example to condemn her sisters’ conduct,who would have said she did it only to look par¬ticular. The good man went on his journey;but when he arrived there, they went to lawwith him about the merchandise, and after agreat deal of trouble and pains to no purpose, hecame back as poor as before.He was within thirty miles of his own house;thinking on the pleasure he should have in see-tag his children again, when, going through »11large forest, he lost himself. It rained andsnowed terribly ; besides the wind was so high,that it threw him twice off his horse ; and nightcoming on, he began to apprehend being eitherstarved to death with cold and hunger, or elsedevoured by the wolves, whom he heard howlingall around him, when, on a sudden lookingthrough a long walk of trees, he saw a light atsome distance, and going on a little farther, per¬ceived it came from a palace illuminated fromtop to bottom. The merchant returned Godthanks for this happy discovery, and hastened tothe palace; but was greatly surprised at notmeeting with any one in the out-courts. Hishorse followed him, and seeing a large stableopen, went in, and finding both hay and oats,the poor beast, who was almost famished, fell toeating very heartily. The merchant tied him upto the manger, and walked towards the house,where he saw no one ; but entering into a largehall, ho found a good fire, and a table plentifullyset out, with but one cover laid. As he was wetquite through with the rain and snow, he drewnear the fire to dry himself. “ I hope,” said he,'• the master of the house, or his servants, willexcuse the liberty I take ; I suppose it will notbe long before some of them appear. ”12He ■waited a considerable time, till it struckeleven, and still nobody came : at last he was sohungry that he could stay no longer, but took achicken and ate it in two mouthfuls, tremblingall the while. After this, he drank a few glassesof wine, and, growing more courageous, he wentout of the hall, and crossed througli severalgrand apartments with magnificent furniture,till he came into a chamber, which had an ex¬ceeding good bed in it, and, as he was very muchfatigued, and it was past midnight, he con¬cluded it was best to shut the door, and go tobed.It was ten the next morning before the mer¬chant waked, and as he was going to rise, hewas astonished to see a good suit of clothes inthe room of his own, which were quite spoiled.“Certainly,” said he, “this palace belongs tosome kind fairy, who has seen and pitied mydistresses.” He looked through a window, butinstead of snow, saw the most delightful arbours,interwoven with the most beautiful flowers thatever were beheld. Ho then returned to thegreat hall, where he had supped the night be¬fore, and found some chocolate ready made on alittle table. “ Thank you, good Madam Fairy,”•aid he aloud, “ for being so careful as to pro-15vide me a breakfast; I am extremely obliged toyou for all your favours. ”The good man drank bis chocolate, and thenwent to look for his horse ; but passing throughan arbour of roses, he remembered Beauty’s re¬quest to him, and gathered a branch on whichwere several; immediately he heard a greatnoise, and saw such a frightful beast coming to¬wards him, that he was ready to faint away.“ You are very ungrateful,” said the Beast tohim, in a terrible voice, “I have saved your lifeby receiving you into my castle, and in return,you steal my roses, which I value beyond anything in the universe ; but you shall die for it.I give you but a quarter of an hour to prepareyourself, and to say your prayers.” The mer¬chant fell on his knees, and lifted up both hishands: “ My Lord,” said he, “ 1 beseech you toforgive me ; indeed I had no intention to offendin gathering a rose for one of my daughters, whodesired me to bring her one.” “ My name is notMy Lord,” replied the monster, “ but Beast. Idon’t like compliments, not I ; I like people tospeak as they think ; and so do not imagine Iam to be moved by any of your flatteringspeeches; but you say you have got daughter*.1C1 will forgive you, on condition that one of themcome willingly, and suffer for you. Let me haveno words, but go about your business, and swearthat, if your daughters refuse to die in yourstead, you will return within three months.”The merchant had no mind to sacrifice hisdaughters to the ugly monster, but he thought,in obtaining this respite, ho should have thesatisfaction of seeing them once more; so hepromised upon oath he would return, and theBeast told him he might set out when hepleased; "but,” added he, "you shall not de¬part empty handed. Go back to the room whereyou lay, and you will see a great empty chest;fill it with whatever you like best, and I willsend it to your home, and at the same time theBeast withdrew.”“ Well,” said the good man to himself, " if Imust die, I shall have the comfort, at least, ofleaving something to my poor children.”lie returned to the bed-chamber, and findinga quantity of broad pieces of gold, he filled thegreat chest the Beast had mentioned, locked it,and afterwards took his horse out of the stable,leaving the palace with as much grief as he hadentered it with joy. The horse, of his own ao-ITcord, took one of the roads of the forest, and iaa few hours the good man was at home. Iliachildren came around him, but, instead of re¬ceiving their embraces with pleasure, he lookedon them, and holding up the branch he had inhis hands, he burst into tears. “ Here, Beaut/,”said he, “ take these roses ; but little do jouthink how dear they are likely to cost your un¬happy father.” He then related his fatal ad¬venture : immediately the two eldest set uplamentable outcries, and, in a reproachful andmalignant tone, said all manner of ill-naturedthings to Beauty, who did not cry at all. “ Dobut see the pride of the little wretch,” said they,“ she would not ask for fine clothes, as we did ;but no, truly, Miss wanted to distinguish her¬self ; so now she will be the death of our poorfather, and yet she does not so much as shed atear.” “Why should I?” answered Beauty,“ it would be very needless, for my father shallnot suffer upon my account Since the monsterwill accept of one of his daughters, I will de¬liver myself up to all his fury, and I am veryhappy in thinking that my death will save myfather’s life, and be a proof of my tender levafor him.” “ No, sister,” said her three brother^*' that shall not be : we will go and find themonster, and either kill him or perish in theattempt.” “ Do not imagine any such thing,my sons,” said the Merchant, “ Beast’s power isso great, that I have no hopes of your overcominghim: I am charmed with Beauty’s kind andgenerous offer, but I cannot yield to it. I amold, and have not long to live, so can only lose afew years, which I regret for your sakes, my poorchildren.” “ Indeed, father,” said Beauty, “youshall not go to the palace without me ; you can¬not hinder me from following you.” It was tono purpose all they could say, Beauty still in¬sisted on setting out for the fine palace ; and hersisters were delighted at it, for her virtue andamiable qualities made them envious and jealous.The merchant was so afflicted at the thought oflosing his daughter, that he had quite forgot thechest full of gold ; but at night, when he retiredto rest, no sooner had he shut his chamber door,than, to his great astonishment, he found it byhis bed-side ; he was determined, however, notto tell his children that he was grown rich, be¬cause they would have wanted to return to town,and he was resolved not to leave the country ;but he trusted Beauty with the secret, who in-Ifformed him, that two gentlemen came in hi?absence and courted her sisters ; she begged herfather to consent to their marriage, and givethem fortunes ; for she was so good that sheloved them, and forgave them heartily for alltheir ill usage. These wicked creatures rubbedtheir eyes with an onion to force some tearswhen they parted with their sister, but betbrothers were really concerned. Beauty was theonly one who did not shed tears at parting, be¬cause she would not increase their uneasiness.The horse took the direct road to the palace;and towards evening, they perceived it illumina¬ted as at first: the horse went of himself intothe stable, and the good man and his daughtercame into the great hall, where they found atable splendidly served up, and two covers. Themerchant had no heart to eat, but Beauty en¬deavoured to appear cheerful, sat down totable and helped him. Afterwards, thought sheto herself, “ Beast surely has a mind to fattenme before he eats me, since he provides such aplentiful entertainment.” When they had sup¬ped, they heard a great noise, and the merchant,in tears, bid his poor child farewell, for bethought Beast was coming. Beauty wa» eadlyterrified at his horrid form, but she took courageas well as she could, and the monster havingasked her if she came willingly, “ Y-e-s,” saidshe, tremblingly. “ You are very good, and Iam greatly obliged to you. Honest man, goyour ways to-morrow morning, but never thinkof returning here again. Farewell, Beauty.”“ Farewell Beast,” answered she sighing, andimmediately the monster withdrew. “ 0 daugh¬ter,” said the merchant, embracing Beauty, “ Iam almost frightened to death ; believe me, youhad better go back, and let me stay here.”“ No, father,” said Beauty, in a resolute tone,“ you shall set out to-morrow morning, andleave me to the care and protection of Provi¬dence.” They went to bed, and thought theyshould not close their eyes all night; but scarcehad they laid down than they fell fast asleep ;and Beauty dreamed a fine lady came, and saidto her, “lam content, Beauty, with your goodwill ; this good action of yours in giving upyour own life to save your father’s shall not gounrewarded.” Beauty waked and told her fa¬ther her dream, and, though it helped to com¬fort him a little, yet he could not help cryingbitterly when he took leave of his dear childfrom the uncertainty of again beholding her.21As soon as he was gone, Beauty sat down inthe great hall, and fell a crying likewise; butas she was mistress of a great deal of resolution,she recommended herself to God, and resolvednot to be uneasy the little time she had to live ;for she firmly believed Beast would eat her up(that night.However, she thought she might as well walkabout till then, and view this fine castle, whichshe could not help admiring. It was a delight¬ful pleasant place, and she was extremely sur¬prised at seeing a door, over which was written“ Beauty’s Apartment.” She opened it has¬tily, and was quite dazzled with the magnifi¬cence that reigned throughout; but what chieflytook up her attention was a large library, aharpsichord, and several music books. “ Well,”said she to herself, “ I see they will not let mytime hang heavily on my hands for want ofamusement.” Then she reflected, “Were I butto stay here a day, mere would not have beenall these preparations.” This consideration in¬spired her with fresh courage ; and opening thelibrary, she took a book and read these words inletteri of gold^ Welcome, Beauty; banish fear,You are queen and mistress here ;Speak your wishes, speak your will,Swift obedience meets them still/*41 Alas,” said she, witli a sigh, “there is no¬thing 1 desire so much as to see my poor fatherand to know what he is doing.” She had nosooner said this, than, casting her eyes on agreat looking-glass, to her great amazement shesaw her own home, where her father had ar¬rived with a very dejected countenance; her sis¬ters went to meet him and notwithstanding theirendeavours to appear sorrowful, their joy, feltfor having got rid of their sister, was visible inevery feature. A moment after, every thingdisappeared, and Beauty’s apprehensions at thisproof of Beast’s complaisance.At noou she found dinner ready, and whileat table was entertained with an excellent con¬cert of music though without seeing any body ;but at night, as she was going to sit down tosupper, she heard the noise Beast made ; andcould not help being sadly terrified. “ Beauty,”said the monster, "will you give me leave to seeyou sup?” “ That is as you please,” answeredBeauty, trembling. “No,” replied the Beast,44 you alone are eatress hero; you need onlynbid me be gone, if my presence is troublesome,and I will immediately withdraw: every thinghere is yours, and I should be very uneasy ifyou were not happy. My heart is good, thoughI am a monster.” “Among mankind,” saidBeauty, “there are many that deserve thatname more than you, and I prefer you, just asyou are, to those who, under a human form,hide a treacherous, corrupt, and ungratefulheart.” Beauty ate a hearty supper, and hadalmost conquered her dread of the monster; butshe had like to have fainted away, when he saidto her, “ Beauty, will you be my wife?” Shewas some time before she durst answer, for shewas afraid of making him angry if she refused.At last, however, she said, trembling, “ No,Beast,” Immediately the poor monster beganto sigh, and howled so frightfully, that the wholepalace echoed. But Beauty soon recovered herfright, for Beast, having said in a mournfulvoice, “Then farewell, Beauty,” left the room;and only turned back now and then, to look ather as he went out.When Beauty was alone, she felt a great dealof compassion for poor Beast. “Alas!” saidshe, “ ’tis a thousand pities any thing so good-natured should be so ugly!”}0Beauty ppent three months very contentedlyin the palace ; every evening Beast paid her avisit, and talked to her during supper very ra¬tionally, with plain good common sense, butnever with what the world calls wit; andBeauty daily discovered some valuable qualifica¬tions in the monster ; till seeing him often hadso accustomed her to his deformity, that, farfrom dreading the time of his visit, she wouldoften look on her watch to see when it would bonine ; for the Beast never missed coming at thathour. There was but one thing that gaveBeauty any concern, which was, that everynight, before she went to bed, the monster al¬ways asked her, if she would be his wife. Oneday she said to him, “ Beast, you make me veryuneasy. I wish 1 could consent to marry you,but I am too sincere to make you believe thatwill ever happen ; I shall always esteem you asa friend: endeavour to be satisfied with this.”"I must,” said the Beast, “for alas! I knowtoo well my own misfortune ; but then I loveyou with the tenderest affection ; however, Iought to think myself happy that you will stayhere. Promise me never to leave me ?” Beautyblushed at these words ; she had seen in het*7glass, that her father had pined himself sick forthe loss of her, and she longed to see him again.“ I could,” answered she, “ indeed promisenever to leave you entirely, but I have so greata desire to see my father, that I shall fret todeath if you refuse me that satisfaction.” “ Ihad rather die myself,” said the monster, “ thangive you the least uneasiness. I will send youto your father ; you shall remain with him, andpoor Beast shall die of grief.” “ No,” saidBeauty, weeping, “ I love you too well to be thecause of your death : I give you my promise toreturn in a week, for I indeed feel a kind ofliking for you. You have shown me that mysisters are married, and my brothers gone to thearmy ; only let me stay a week with my father,as he is alone.” “ You shall be there to-mor¬row morning,” said the Beast, “ but rememberyour promise : you need only lay your ring onthe table before you go to bed, when you have amind to come back: farewell, Beauty.” Beastsighed as usual, bidding her good night; andBeauty went to bed very sad at seeing him soafflicted. When she waked the next morning,she found herself at her father’s, and havingrang a little bell, that was by her bed-side, she28saw the maid come ; who, the moment she sawher, gave a loud shriek ; at which the good manran up stairs, and thought he should have diedwith joy to see his dear daughter again. Heheld her fast locked in his arms above a quarterof an hour. As soon as the first transports wereover, Beauty began to think of rising, and wasafraid she had no clothes to put on ; but themaid told her, that she had just found, in thenext room, a large trunk full of gowns, coveredwith gold and diamonds. Beauty thanked goodBeast for his kind care, and taking one of theplainest of them, she intended to make a presentof the others to her sisters. She scarcely hadsaid so, when the trunk disappeared. Herfather told her, that Beast insisted on her keep¬ing them herself; and immediately both gownsand trunk came back again.Beauty dressed herself ; and in the meantimethey sent to her sisters, who hastened thitherwith their husbands. They were both of themvery unhappy. The eldest had married a gen¬tleman, extremely handsome indeed, but so fondof his own person, that he neglected his wife.The second had married a man of wit, but heonly made use of it to plague and torment everyone. Beauty’s sisters sickened •with envy, whenthey saw her dressed like a Princess, and lookmore beautiful than ever. They went down in¬to the garden to vent their spleen, and agreedto persuade her to stay a week longer with them,which probably might so enrage the Beast as tomake him devour her. After they had takenthis resolution, they went up, and behaved soaffectionately to their sister that poor Beautywept for joy, and, at their request, promised tostay seven nights longer.In the mean time. Beauty was unhappy. Thetenth night she dreamed she was in the palacegarden, and that she saw Beast extended on thegrass-plot, who seemed just expiring, and in adying voice, reproached her with her ingrati¬tude. Beauty started out of her sleep, andbursting into tears, reproached herself for heringratitude, and her insensibility of his manykind and agreeable qualifications. Having saidmuch on this, she rose, nut her ring on thetable, and then laid aown again; scarcely wasshe in bed before she fell asleep; and when shewaked the next morning, she was overjoyed tofind herself in the Beast’s palace. She put onone of her richest suits to please him, and wait-32ed for erening with the utmost impatience, atlast the wished-for hour came, the clock strucknine, yet no Beast appeared. After havingsought for him every where, she recollected herdream, and flew to the canal in the garden.There she found poor Beast stretched out, quitesenseless, and, as she imagined, dead. Shethrew herself upon him without any dread, and,finding his heart heat still, she fetched somewater from the canal, and pouring it on hishead. Beast opened his eyes, and said to Beauty,“ You forgot your promise, and I was so afflict¬ed for having lost you that I resolved to starvemyself; hut since I have the happiness of see¬ing you once more I die satisfied.” “ No, dearBeast,” said Beauty, “ you must not die ; liveto be my husband ; from this moment I give youmy hand, and swear to be none but your’s.”Beauty scarcely had pronounced these words,when the palace sparkled with lights and fire¬works, instruments of music, every thing seem¬ed to portend some great event: but nothingcould fix her attention ; she turned to her dearBeast, for whom she trembled with fear; but,how great was her surprise! Beast had disap¬peared, and she saw at her feet, one of the love-Hest Princes that eye ever beheld, who returnedher thanks for having put an end to the charmunder which he had so long resembled a Beast.Though this Prince was worthy of all her at¬tention, she could not forbear asking whenBeast was. “ You see him at your feet said thePrince, a wicked fairy had condemned me toremain under that shape till a beautiful virginshould consent to marry me. In offering youmy crown, I can’t discharge the obligations Il.ave to you.” Beauty, agreeably surprised,gave the charming Prince her hand to vise ;they went together into the castle, and Beautywas overjoyed to find, in the great hall, herfather and his whole family, whom the beauti¬ful lady, that appeared to her in her dream, hadconveyed thither.“ Beauty,” said this lady, “come and receivethe reward of your judicious choice : you aregoing to be a great Queen, I hope the thronewill not lesson your virtue, nor make you for¬get yourself. As for you, ladies,” said the Fairyto Beauty’s two sisters, “ I know your heartsand all the malice they contain. Become twostatues! but under this transformation, stillretain your reason. You shall stand before youruBister’s palace gate, and bo it your punishmentto behold her happiness.” Immediately theFairy gave a stroke with her wand, and, in amoment, all that were in the hall were tran¬sported into the Prince’s palace. His subjectsreceived him with joy ; he married Beauty, andlived with her many years : and their happiness,as it was founded on virtue,_was complete.?ai: end.