JOE MILLER’SJEST S.BEINGA COLLECTIONorThe moft brilliant Jefts and moft pleafantfliort Stoiies in the Englifh Language,The greater Part of which are taken froiftthe mouth of that facetious Gentlemanwhole Name they bear, Mt. / «V *Stirling, Printed by C. Randall,*'JHHJOE MILLER’S JESTS.OE MILLER going with a friend oneday along Fleet ftreet, and feeing oldrofs the player, who was very deaf, andtwilling that any one ihould know it, one other fide of the way, told his friend: (hould,< fee fome fport ■, fo beckoningrofs with his finger, and ftretching opens mouth as wide as ever he could, as if: hallooed to him though he faid nothing,eoid tellow came puffing from the otherle of the .vay vVhat a pox do yon nakech a node for do you think one can’tar ?Joe Miller another day fitting in the w:n-w at the fun r.'vern in Clare llreet, whilefilhwoman was p.ffing by. cning. Buy ; iyal, buy my maids Ch you wic'ted crea«ire, faid Joe, are you not cotatent to felljur own foul, but you mult fell youraid’s alfo.A perlon of quality coming hit a churchhere feveral uf his anceit rs lay bnrr:d, after he had pi ailed them very muc^'jt worthy men, vVell, faid het 1 am rtfo]^4p.m refolved, if I live to be buried as ;them as pollible.One man told another, who ufed nobe clothed very often, that his newwas too long for him : That’s true, anfted the other, but it will be longer befcget anotherA poor man who had a tarmagant wafter a very long difpute in whichwas refolved to have the laft word, iher if Hie fpake one crooked word nnhe wouM beat her brains out: WhyRam’s Horns, you rogue, laid flie, if Ilifor it.A certain country Squire aiked a IVry Andrew why he played the fool ? 1the lame reafon, faid he as you do,want: y ou uo it for w ant of wit, I for wof money.A weilhman bra ging of his famfaid, that his father’* effigy was fet upWeftminiter Abbey ; being aiked wheabouts, he faid, in the lame monum<with Squire Thynne, tor he was icoachman.A certain lady finding her huiband tfamiliar with her chambermaid turnher away imraediately, Kuffey, faid flI have no oceafion for fuch Huts as you,only to do what work I chufe ** to domyfelf.A gentleman alked a lady at Tunbridge,who had made a very large acquaintance a-rnong the beaux there, what fhe would dowith them all ? O. faid fhe, they pafs oftlike the waiers. And pray, madam, laid he,do they all pafs the fame way ?A very harmlefs IriOiman was eatingan apple pie with fome quinces in it. A-rah now, dear hon»y. faid he, if fo few ofthefe quinces give fuch a flavour, howwould an apple pye tafle made all of quin¬ces.A young gentleman playing at queftianand commands with fome pre <y young la¬dies was commanded to take a garter fromone of them ; but fhe, as foon as he laid,hold of her petticoat, ran away into thenext room, where was a bed: Now, madam,faid he, 1 bar fqueaking. Bar the door,faid fhe.^n Irilh Lawyer of the Temple havingoccafion to go to dinner, left this dire&i-ou in the key hole, Gone to the Ele¬phant and Caftle, where you wilt findme, and if you cannot read this, carry it6te the flationer’s and he will read it foryou.Two Oxford fcholars meeting on the roadwith a Yorldhire Oftler, they fell to banter¬ing him ; and told him, that they wouldprove him to be a hoife or an afs. Well,laid the oilier, I can prove your faddle to bea mule- A mule faid one of them hewcan that be ? Becaufe. faid the oilier, it isfomething between a horfe and an afs.An Englilh gentleman happening to bein Precknock Ihire, ufed fometimes to di¬vert himfell with Ihooting, but being fuf-pe£led not to be qualified, was fent for byone of the little wellh Juftices. His Wor-Ihip told him, unlefs he could produce hisqualification, he Ihould not allow him toIhoot there, and he had too little manors.Yes fir, faid the gentleman any one may per¬ceive that. Perceive what? cried the Wellh*man. That you have too little manners,cried the other.The chaplain’s boy of a man of warbeing fent out of his own Ihip on an er¬rand to another, the boys were conferringnotes about their manner of living. Howoften do you go to prayers now ? Why an-fwered the other, in cafe of a ftcrra, or theapprehenfion of any danger from an enemyAye, faid the £rft, there is fome fenfe inthat; but my rnafter makes us go to pray¬ers when there is no more occafton for it,than for my leaping over board.A certain lady at Whitehall, of greatquality, but very little modefty, having fentfor her linen-draper to bring her fome Hol¬lands, as foon as the young fellow enteredthe room, O fir, faid fhe, I find you are theman for bufinefs, for you no fooner look allady in the face, but you have the yard inlone hand, and is lifting up the linen with:the other.I King Henry the Eighth defigning toifend a nobleman on an embaffy to FrancisIthe ‘ftrft, at a very dangerous juncture,he begged to be excufed, faying. Such athreatening meffage to fq hot a Prince asFrancis the Firft, might go near to cofthim his head. Fear not, laid Old Harry,it the French King Ihouid cfter to takei aw ay your life, I will revenge it by ta¬king off the heads of the Frenchmen nowi in my power. But of all thefe heads8replied the nobleman, not one would fit myfhoulders.A Prince laughing at one of his nobleswhom he had employed in feveral embaf- jfies, told him he looked like an owl. Iknow not. faid the courtier, what I look ilike, but this I know that 1 have had thehonour feveral times to reprefent your^lajelly’s perfon.A Mayor of Yarmouth, in ancient times,bring by his office a Juftice of the Peace, ,;md one who was willing to difpence ;the laws in the ■wifeft manner, though he lcould hardly read, got himfelt the itatutebook, where finding a law againft firing ja beacon, or caufmg one to be fired, he iread it. Frying bacon, or caufmg one ;to be Iried ; and accordingly went out !the next night upon the fcent, ?nd being jdirected by his nofe to the carrier’s houfe,, |he found the man and his wife both frying ;bacon, the hufband holding the pan, whilethe wife turned it. Being thus caughtin the faft, and having nothing to layfor tbemfelves, his Wot Chip committedthem both to prifon without bail or main-prize.m-rrz—nrA country fellow was fupoenn;^ for a wit-n^fs upon a trial on an atbon of dtlama-tion ; he being Iworn, the judge hade himrepeat tne very lame words he had heardfpoken The feiiow w'as loath to fpeak*land hummed and hawed for a good fpace ;but being urged by the Judge he at iaitjfpoke. My Lord, laid he, you are a cu-;ckolJ Tlie Judge feeing ad the people(begin to laugh at him, called to him, andibid him fpeafc. to the Jury, there were twelve(of them.A gentleman fpeaking of Peggy Yate thefamous courtezan who had always an a-Imiulanee of tine deaths, lam the was Hite allquirrel, for (he wras always covering her(back with her tainA gentleman faid one day at table, thatihe could not endure a breaft of muttoirT ou faid lo the other day, faid another of|a bread of veal. Very true aniwered theifirlt, 1 do not love the bread of any thing:but that ol a woman, and that goes agaijiitary ftoinach,A woman was growing big with child,'who had two gallants, one or them withja wooden leg j the queftion was put,ti which of the two fhqu a father the clukl.10He who had the wooden leg offered to de¬cide it in the following manner: If the childlays he, comes into the world with a wood¬en leg, I will father it; if not, then it multbe yours.A gentleman who had been a (hootingbrought home a frnall bird with him, andhaving an Irifh fervant, he aflced him if hehad ftiot that little bird ? Yes, he told him.Airah, by my fhou!, honey, replied theIrifhman, it was not worth the powder andIhot, for this little thing urould have died inthe fall.The fame Irifhman being at a tavern,w! ere the cook was die ng fome carp,he obferved that fome of the fhh moved, af¬ter they were gutted and put into the pan,which much furprifed honelt Teague, Well,,now by my faith, laid he. of all the chrifliancreatures ever I faw, this fame carp will livethe longeft after it is dead.A certain gentleman happening to turnup againfl a houfe to make water, did notfee two young ladies lookingout at a windowdole by, Until he heard them, when he alk-ed them what made them fo merry ? O,ifaid one of them, a little thing will make usj laugh.I A-young fellow riding down a deep hill,’doubting the foot of it was boggilh, called;out to a clown that'was ditching, and a(kedit it was hard at the bottom ? Aye, anfwer-ed the countryman it is hard enough at thebottom, HI warrant you. But in half adozen fteps the horfe funk up to the faddlegirths, whica made the young gallant whip,fpur, curie, and iwear. Why you whore-fon of a rafcal, faid he to the ditcher, didilthou not tell me it was hard at the bottom,i Aye, faid the ditcher but you are not Italfi way to the bottom yet.An Engliihman and a Welfhman difput-1 ing in whofe Country was the belt living ;I laid the Weitliman. there is luch nobleI houfekeeping in Wales, that I have knowna 'ove a dozen cooks employed at one wed¬ding dinner. Aye, replied the EnglUhman,that was becaufe every man toaited his owncheefe.A perfon being near his end, a womanwho lived in the neighbourhood fent hermaid to know how he did ; he bid thegirl tell her miftrefc, he hoped he was12grin" to the New Jerufalem. Ah ! dear,faid die, I think the air of Uiington woulddo you more good 'A young lady who had been married buta fhort t me feeing her hufband going torife pretty early in the morning faid. Whatmy <iear. are you getting up already ; prayhe a little longer and reltyourfelf. No mydear, replied the hufband. I’ll get up andreft myfelf.One Jt ling a bag of money of about fif¬ty pounds, between the Temple Gate andTemple Bar, fixed up a paper, offering areward to thole who took it and fhouid re¬turn it Upon which the perfon that had itcame and wrote underneath it to the follow¬ing tfftft : Sir, 1 thank you for the offeredreward, but indeed you really bid me to rr-ylols.Ore failcr coming to another on apay-day, defiled to borrow twenty fhil-Jings of him. The monied men led totelii? g cut the fum in fhiilings, but a half-ctown thuifting in its head, pm him out,and he began to tell again ; but then aaimpertinent crown piece was as impii-dent as his half brother had been, andagain inteirupted the tale; fo that takingup a handful of filver, he cried. HereJack, give me a handful when your fhipis paid off, what a pcx Ugnifies counting otitA very humourous countryman har¬ing bought a barn in part: erfhip witha neighbour of his, neglected to make thelead; ufe of it, wh le the other had plen¬tifully ftored his part with com and hay.In a little time the latter came to him, andconfcienrioufly expostulated with him aboutlaying out h s money to to litde purpofe.Why, neighbour, laid he, piay never trou¬ble your head, you may do what you willwith your part of the barn, but I will fetmine in fire.A gentieman afked Nancy Rochford,why the jVhigt in their mourninglor QueenAnn wore filk dockings ? 6aid Ihe, becaufethe Tories wrear wonted.The latnous Tom 1 hypne, who wras re¬markable for his good heufe keeping andhoipitality, ftanding one day at hio gate inthe country a beggar came up to him, andcraved a mug of his fmail beer. Why hownow, laid he, what times aie thefe, whenbeggars mult be cfioofers, 1 fay bring thisfellow a mug of llrong beer.14Some gentleman going into a bawdyhoufetavern by Charing Crofs, found a great dealof fault with the houfe and the v/ine, andfending for the mailer, told him it was fadHuff and very weak, it may be fo, laid he,for my trade does not depend upon theftrength of my wine, but that of my tablesand chairs.A profligate young nobleman being incompany with fome fober people, defiredleave to toad the devil. The gentleman whofat next him, faid he had no objection to anyof his Lordlhip’s particular friends.A gentleman faid of a wench who con*Handy plied about the Temple, that if ihehad as much law in her head as fhe has inher tail, Ike would be one of the abkltcouncil in England.O * tA. certain lady of quality fending herIrilh footman to fetch home a pair of newHays, firi&ly charged him to take a coachif it rained, lor fear of wetting them.But a gre at fhower falling, the fellow re¬turned with the Hays dripping wet; andbeing feverely reprimanded for not doingas he was ordered, he faid he had obeyedher orders. How then anfwered the lady.could the (lays be wet if you took them intothe coach with you ? No, replied honeftTeague, I know my place better I did notget into the coach, but rode behind as I al¬ways ufed to do.'Two honeft gentlemen who dealt in broommeeting one day in the (Ireet, one afked rheother how the devil he could aiforu to un¬derfed them as he did, when he ftole thefluff, and made the brooms himlelf? Why,you filly dog, replied, the other, 1 Heal themready made.A young gentlewoman wrho had marrieda wild fpark that had run through a plentifulfortune, and was reduced into ilraits, wasinnocently faying to him one day My dear1 want {hilts fadly. How can that be, repliedhe, when we make fo many every day.An Irifhman having been obliged to live^with his mafler fome time in Scotland, whenhe came home again, fome of his compa¬nions alked him how he liked Scotland ? I. will tell you now, laid he, I was tick all the •while I was there, and if I had lived theretill this time, I had been dead'a year ago.iGiMr. Drycien once at dinner, beinsj by afady oft'ered the rump of a fowl, he refufii'.git, the lady faid, Prav Mr Dryden take ii,the rump is the beft part of the fowl YesMadam, faid he, and i'o l think it is of the jfair.A fa&ious teacher of arithmetic who hadlong been married without being able to gethis wite with child ; one faid to her, Ma¬dam, your hulband is an excellent aiithme-tician. Yes replied flife, only he cannot^nuitiply.A cowardly fervant having been out ahunting with his mailer, they had killeda wild boar. I he fellow thinking the boar :flirred, betook himfeif to a tree; uponwhich his malter called to him, and alkedhim, What he was afraid of, as the boar’sguts were oui ? No matter for that, laid lie,his teeth are in' i IA butcher n Smithfield, who lay up-on his death bed, faid to his wm, Mydear, 1 am not a man for this world.therefore I advife you to marry our manJohn, he is a lufty young fellow, and fitfor your turn. O dear hufband, faid Ihe,if that he all, let it never trouble you, forwe have already agreed upon that matter.When his late Majefty in coming fromHolland happened to meet with a ftorm atfea the captain of the yatch faid to the chap¬lain Doftor, in five minutes more we fhallbe with the Lord. The Lord forbid, an-fwered the Doctor.•A taylor fent his bill to a lawyer for mo*ney. The lawyer bid the boy tell his maf-ter, that he was not running away, but ve¬ry bufy at tha time The boy comes a-gain and telis him he mufl needs have themoney. Did you tell your mailer, faid thelawyer, that l was not running away Yes,anfwered the boy, but he bid me tell youthat he was.One Irilhman meeting another, afked.What was become of their old acquain-tance Patrick Murphy ? Arrah ! now, dearhoney, anfwered the other, he was condem¬ned to die, but he faved his life by dying inprifon.One alked his friend. Why he being fucha proper man himfelf; had married fo fmalla wife'? 'Viw friend faid he, I thought youhadki'own that of evils we Ihauid chufe thelead.A gentleman ha' ing fent|for his carpen¬ter’s fervant to k : ck a nail or two in hisftudy, the fellow after he had done it, faidSir, I hope you will give me fomething fomake me drink There is a pickle herringfor you, faid the gentleman, and if thatdoes not make you drink, I will give youanother.Two gentlemen, one named Chambersand the other Garret, riding by Tyburn,faid the firft. This would be a pretty tene¬ment if it had a garret. You fool, faysGarret don’t you know there mull be cham¬bers firft.i9A lawyer being Tick, made his will, and;ave all his eftates to fools and madmen ;4>eing afked the reafon for fo doing, he an-wered, From fuchl had them, and to fuchgive them again.An Trifh gentleman being with fome(ladies in a nobleman’s garden, where wasi large iron roller, told them he thoughtwas the largeft iron rolling (lone that heever faw.Two Irilhmen having travelled on footfrom Chefter to Barnet, wrere much tiredand fatigued with their journey, and theimore fo, when they were told that they hadiftill ten miles to London. By my fhoul &pt Patrick, cries one of them, it is but five(miles a piece, let’s walk on.Gun Jones, who had made a handfomefortune from a very mean beginning,happening to have fume words with aiperfon who had known him for fome time,(was afked by the other, How he could20have the impudence to give himfelf fo manyairs, when he knew verv well that he re¬membered (even years ago, when he had.hardly a rag to his arfe You lie, firrah,replied J^nts, for feven years ago I had no¬thing but rags to my arfe.A traveller coming into the kitchen ofan inn, in a very cold night, flood fo clofeto ;he fire, tfm he burnt his boots. An archwag who fat in rhe chimney corner, faid tohim, Sir. v^a'll burn your fpurs prefently.My boots you mean l fuppofe, (aid the gen¬tleman. No fir, replied the other, they areburnt already;A great courtier for a long time havingnone but daughters, his wife prayed veryearntftly that fhe might have a boy ; at ladthey had a boy, who when he came to man’seflate proved but fimple: TTk-u prayedd folong for a boy, faid her hufband, that at ladthou had got one who will be a boy as longas he lives.I iA country clergyman meeting a neigh¬bour who ne'er came to church, althoughan old fellow about fixty, he gave him1'ome reproof on that account, and afkedhim if he never read at home ? No, re¬plied the clown. I cannot read. I darelay, faid the parfon, you don’t know' whomade you ? Not I, in troth, cried thecountryman. A little boy coming by atthe fame time, Who made you, child ?faid the parfon. God, fir, faid the boy,W hy look you there, quoth the clergyman,are you not alhamed to hear a child five orfix years old tell me who made him, whenyou who are fo old a man cannot ? Ah!laid the countryman, it is no wonder that hefliould remember he was made but the o^ther day, and it is a long while, meafter,fince l was made.After the fire of London, there was anaft to regulate the buildings of the city jevery houl’e was to be three flories high,and there were to be no ba concies back¬wards . A Gloucelterfhire gentleman, aman of great wit and humour, juft afterthis aft paffed going a ong the ftrtet,and feeing a little crooked gentlewomanon the other fide of the way, he runs overto her in great hafte j Lord, madam, faid.i - fhe, how dare you walk thus publicly in iheflreet ? And why not, pray fir ? anfweredthe little woman. Becaufe replies he,you are built directly contrary to the aftof parliament; you are but two ftories highand your balcony hangs over your houfe ofoffice.A certain boy was boafling in companythat he had every fenfe :n perfection No,faid one who was by, there is one youare entirely without, and that is commonfenfe.Dr. Fadloe, who was a man of a very en¬ormous fize happening to go thump thump,with his great legs through the ftreet wherethe paviours were at work in the middleof July, they la d down their hammers.Ah ! God blefs you, mafter, cries one ofthem, it is very kind of you to come thisway ; it faves us a great deal of trouble thishot weather.■ jThree or four roguiffi fcholars walkingout one day from the Univerfity of Oxford, efpitd a poor fejfcw by Abingdonafleep in a ditch, with an afs by him, la-p-den with earthen ware, holding the bridlein his hand ; faid one of the fcholars to therett, if you will aflift me, I’ll help you to alittle money, for you know we are bare atprefent. So they confented Whv then,faid he, we’ll go and fell this fellow’s afsat Abingdon as the fai is to-morrow, there¬fore do you take trie panniers off and putthem upon my back, and the bridle overmy head, and then lead the afs to the mar¬ket, and let me alone with the old man.This being done accordingly in a littletime after, the poor man awaking, wasftrangely furpnfed to fee his afs thusmetamorphc.fed. O for God’s fake ! faidthe fcholar, do take this bridle out of mymouth, and this load off my back Zoundshow came you there ? replied the old man.Why, faid he, my father, who is a ne¬cromancer, upon an idle thing that l didto difoblige him, transformed me into anafs; but now his heart is relented, and Iam come to my own fhape again ; and lbeg you will let me go home and thankhim. By all means, faid the crockerymerchant, l do not dcfire to have anything to do with conjuration, and fo fetI£4the fcholar at liberty, and he went immedi¬ately to his companions, who were by thattime making themleives merry with the mo-i. - ney they had fold the afs for, But the oldfellow was obliged to go next day to feekfor a new one at the fair, and after havinglooked at fever; 1, his owm was Ihewn to himfor a very good one. O ! O ! faid he, whathave he and his father quarrelled againalready No, no, 1 will have nothing tqfay to him.f I N I S.) V. •;v.k :Wv '* •