A COLLECTION OFSONGS. &c.CONTAININGX IX.CAPTAIN MULLIGAN.THE BOLD DRAGOON.WILL WATCH.y, MY HEART, WHY WILDLY BEATING.HOME, SWEET HOME!HAD I A CAVE.2Captain Mulligan.Luve’s a plague by nigkt and by day.When that post you run your skull again,Lore it was or Kitty O'Shea,That bothered the heart of the brave Captain\i ulligan.Hrisk and merrily, light and gay,Stout and steadily, smart and readily,Soft and funnily, blythe and bonnily.Quite an Adonis was Captain Mulligan ;He was willing, she was killing,Soft she cried to brave O’Mulligan :0, you jewed !Cruel, jewel, willing, killing, Captain Mulligan,Shoulders rising over his ears,Fau* just like the moon in full again,Legs in shape like a tailor's shears.You ne’er saw the fellow of Captain Mulligan,Limping, twaddling, Miss O Shea ;Glances pitching him, quite bewitching himOgling bonnily, squinting funnily,She was a Venus to Captain Mulligan,“(), sweet Kitty, you’re so pretty PSoft he cried the brave O’ Mulligan ;“ 0, sweet Kitty !Pretty, witty, Kilty, pity Captain Mulligan! - *Married, how they alter'd their tuneLove onee fierce, faith ! soon grew cold again,,When they pass'd the sweet honey-moonShe blacken'd the eye of brave Captain Mulligat3Whisky tipplin", night and day,Scolding, lighting him, horns affrighting him,i! “ Och ! be aisy now, troth, you're crazy now,| The devil go with you, then, Mrs Mulligan,”Faith, I knew it, I should rue it.i Sad he cried, poor Captain Mulligan,“ You’re my gruel !; Cruel, jewel, killing, milling. Mistress Mulligan.”The Bold Dragoon.There was an ancient fair, oh she lored a nate|onr • -■ ■■ ■ - ■■ ■ • ■' 1young man,i And she could not throw sly looks at him, by onlyi thro’ her fan,I With iier winks and hiinks, this waddling minx,| Her quizzing glass, her leer and sidle,II Oh, she Jov d a hold Dragoon, with his long sword,saddle, bridle. Whack ! row de dotr dow.f She had a rolling eye, its fellow it had none,Would you know the reasen why, it was, because'she had hut one :With her winks and blinks, this waddling minx.Site could not keep her one eye idle !O, she leer’d at this Dragoon, with his longsword, &c.Now he was tall and slim, she squab and short?*»< grown.He lookM just like a mile itn length, and shea milestone 14With her wiafcs and biinks, this waddling minx,Her quizzing tdass. her Iter and sidii',O, she sighed to this Dragoon, B!e.ss yonr ioni-sword, ictvi t)^oon he led unto the church the beauteous MnFlinn,Who a walnut could hare crack’d ’tween herjlovely m^e and cliin ;Oh ! then such winks in marriage links,'Hie four foot bride from church did sidle.As the wife of this Dragotn, with his longsword, &.c.A twelvemonth scarce had pass’d when he laid herunder ground,Soon he threw the onion from las eyes and touch'dten thousand pound !For her winks and blinks her money chinks,He doe* not let her cash lie idle !So long life to this Dragoon, with his longsword, See.Will Watch.’Twas one morn when the wind from the north¬ward blew keenly.While sulli nlv roar’d the hig waves of the main,A fam’d smuggler, Will Watch, kiss’d his Sue,then serein I vTook helm, and to sea boldly steered out- again.T5ill liad promised his Sue that this trip, if wellended.Should coil up his hopes, and he'd anchor ashore ;Vhen lijs pockets were lin’d, why his life shouldhe meirded;[ The laws he had broken, he’d never break more.Iis sea-boat was trim, made her port, took herlading ;Then Will stood for home, reached the offing,and cried,,iis night, if I’ve luck, furls the sails of mj tra¬ding ;In dock 1 could lay, serve a friend too beside.I'll lay to till the night came on, darksome anddreary ;’o crowd ev'ry sail then he pip'd up eachhand ;a signal soon spied, ('tvvas a prospect un-cheery,). signal that warn’d him to steer from theland.Philistines are out, cried Will, well, take noheed on't,^tack'd, who's the man that will flinch fromids gun Pfnld my head he blown off, I shall ne'er feel| the need orft,i'll fight while we can—when we can’t, boys,we’ll run. , .•Tliro’ tbe l afce of th« nigkt a brigiit flash no\'appearing.Oh ! oh I cries Will Watch, the Philistinebear dowrn :Bear a hand, mv tight lads; ere \*i think aboshewing.One broadside pour in, should vve swim, boysor drown*But should I be popp'd off, you, my mates, lelifabehind me,Regard my last words, see ’em kindly obey’d ;Bet no stone mark the spot; and my friends, d|you mind me,Near the beach is the grave where Will Waf<would he laidPoor Will’s yarn was spun out, for a bullet neminuteLaid him low on the deck, and he never spomore.H is hold crew fought the brig while a shot ijmaincd in it ;Then sheer'd and Will's hulk to his Susan t!>bore.It,I &dir*%ffiallrIn the dead of the night his last wish was coplied with ;'lo few known his grave, and to few knownend :He was borne to the earth by the crew thatdied with ;nfjil kr kr««(iF «UiltdHe'd the tears of his Susan, the prayers of eachfriend.iN’ear his grave dash the billon's, the winds loudlybellow ;Yon ash. struck with Ijght’ning, points out thecold bedhere Will Watch, the bold smuggler, thatfain d lawless fellow,Once fear'd, now forgol, sleeps in peace withthe dead !Say, my heart, zehy wildly beating.Say, my heart, why wildly beating;Dost thou such emotion prove.;Canst thou, when thy lover meeting,Fear his truth or doubt his love?No ! loudly no, my bosom sighs,No ! gently no, my heart replies.Then fond heart he silent ever^-Be thy wild emotion o’er;For with doubt and fearing neverShall thou throb—no, no, no, never more.Light ofi'e and life’s best blessing,Is the love that meets returnShall I that rich boon possessing,E’er the matchless blessing spurn ?No! fondly no, my bosom sighs.No ! gently no, my heart replies.The i be joy my inmate ever,S nee each anxious dread is o’er;For with fear and doubling neverS tall it throb-^no, no, no, never more,Home, sweet Home.’Mid pleasures and palaces, though we mar roaRe it ever so humble, there's no place like hornA charm from the skies seems to hallow us thereW hich, seek thro’ the world, is ne'er met willelsewhere.* * 1 . 1 -i «>»i *■ «4. - 1 <• »* 'A/ 11 * 'J3Home, heme ! swept, sweet home !There's no place like home ! there’s no placelike home.An exile from home, splendour dazzles in vain !Oh ! give me my lowlv thatch’d cottage again, 1The birds singing gaily, that came at my call,Give me them, with the peace of mind, dearerthan all.Home, home! sweet, sweet home IThere’s no place like home! there's no placelike home !Had I a Cave.Had I a cave on some wild distant shore.Where the winds howl to the wave’s dashing roar,There would I weep my woes,There seek my lost repose,Till grief my eyes should close.Ne’er to wake more.Falsest of womankind, canst thou declareA'i thy fond plighted vows—fleeting as air 1To thy new lover hie,I,a ugh o’er thy perjury.Then in thy bosom tryWhat peace is there.