[Sc. IS.THE HISTORYorKINGtOBT. BRUCE,CONTAINING THE MEMORABLEATTLE OF BANNOCKBURN,<tc d'C. KC.GLASGOW:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.OF sconmTHE HISTORYOFKTXG KOBERT BRUCE;Edward I. of England, having constrained John Baliaaixiicate the throne of Scotland, and Micceedetl, bytreacl]in securing the renowned Sir William Wallace, who®cruelly pus to death at London on the 23d of Aurust ftook possession of the country' as his by right of conqf'I'hc people everywhere rose against the usurper, who vdetermined to fight for the freedom of their country, andlieve themselves from the galling yoke of the English ; ;therefore, such great nobles as thought they had a rigbtin* vacant throne began to stand forward to claim it. An:the competitors for the regal honour were two powenoUemra. The first was Kobrrt Brock, Earl of Cangrandson-of that Robert Bruce who had disputed the thiwith John Baliul; the other was John Cojiy-k of Baden;generally styled the Red Oomi/n, to distinguish him fromkinsman, the Black CW?/«, so called from his swarthy cP exion. -These two powerful barons had both assistedimmortal Wallace in the wars against England; hut athe defeat at Falkirk, being afraid of losing their great estaand desponding of ever re taining ihe independence of tlcountry, they not only nckitowlndged Edward ,3s KingScotland, but even bore arms alciig with the English •ug«|their patfiotie.cpu’.itryinen, who resolved rather to die in;fence of their rights than submit to the tyrant's sway fojmoment.Bruce’s feelings concerning the baseness of his connarc believed to have been roused by the following incidentIn one of the numerous battles which took place bciwccnEnglish and their adherents on the one side and the Sdotjpatriots on the other, Bruce had assisted the English in gaiug the victory. When the battle was over, he sat downdinner without washing his hands, on which were spots;blood which he had shed during the action. “ Look at tiScotchman,” whispered .some of the English lords to thmessmates, “ who is eating his own blood.” Bruce felt jcutting '-omark, and, beginning to reflect that the blood upbis hands might well be styled his own blodd, seeing it tTHE HISTORY OF KING ROBERT BRUCE.3jiat of his valorous countrymen who were struggling forlieir national independence, he rose from table, entered aI'ighbouritig chapel, where he shed many tears, imploredod s forgiveness fur the great sin he had been guilty of, andade a solemn vow that he would atone for it by using histniost exertion to deliver his bleeding country from the ironike of Edward. Accordingly, he entered into a secret bondassociation with the Bishop of St Andrews, as head of thesottish Church, whereby the parties bound themselvesutually to assist each other against all persons whatsoever,id neither to undertake any business of importance with-t the other, lie had also a conference with Comyn, atrich he proposed that they should thenceforw ard entertaindings of friendship towards each other. “ Support,” saidwee, “ my title to the crown, and I will give you all my; ids ; or, bestow on me your lands, and I will support your: lim.” Comyn accepted the former of those proposals, and; agreement being drawn up, it was sealed by both parties,,d confirmed by their oaths of fidelity and secrecy. Comyn,' wever, revealed the secret to Edward, who resolved ou re-. ige ; and, having drank freely one evening, discovered hisc ication to some of the nobles of his court. The Earl ofi m"ester, a kinsman of Bruce, had notice of his friend’siger, and, anxious to save him, yet afraid in so serious attcr too rashly to compromise his own safety, sent him aS rse of gold and a pair of spurs. Bruce, understanding theit, had his horses shod with their shoes inverted, that the' ces on the snow might baffle his pursuers, and instantlyi out for Scotland, accompanied by his secretary and agle attendant.' Arriving at Dumfries, he immediately as-■ ibled his friends and all the nobles, who encouraged hisi olution, and promised their aid. Comyn excepted. Comynleavoured to dissuade them from so desperate an uudertak-1; and, after the assembly was dismissed, Bruce sought aivate interview with him. From some inward misgiving,idoubt, on the part of Comyn. the meeting took place ini churchyard of Dumfries, before the high altar. Hero 9 *ice passionately reproached Comyn for his treachery ini ’ing revealed the seciet to Edward, and, after some alter-! ion, Bruce drew his dagger and stabbed him to the heart,mediately hastening from the spot, he called for his at-; dants, who, seeing him pale and agitated, inquired these. “ I doubt,” said Bruce, “ that I have slain the Itodnyn.” “ Do you leave such a matter to doubt ?” criedI 'kpatrick fiercely ; “Ise mak’sicker,"’—thatis,Iwi)l makoitain ; and, accordingly, he and Lindsay rushed towards thoiinded Comyn, and dis{mtchcd him with their daggers.i!THE HISTORY OP•iHis uncle. Sir Robert Comyn, bearing the scuffle, enterand shared a similar fate. The murder of Comyn was a crnotion, and [leaven’s displeasure seemed to have followedfor no man ever went through more misfortunes than RobBruce, who was the bravest and best warrior in Scotianow that his country had been deprived of Sir William Wlace, and was also famed for his prudence and skill as a cotmander in the field.Bruce had committed an action which was sure to briupon him the vengeance of all Comyn's relations, the rese;ment of the King of England, and the displeasure of ichurch, for slaying his enemy within consecrated groutHe therefore determined at once to bid defiance to them ;and assert his right to the Scottish throne. For this purprhe summoned his own followers, together with such barewho still entertained hopes of their country’s freedom, awas crowned king at Scone, the usual place where the Sctish kings were inaugurated, on March 27,1306. The regahad been carried by Edward to Westminster, but their phwa= speedily supplied. The Bishop of Glasgow furnished fr-his own stores the robes in which Bruce was arrayed, ancslight circlet of gold, to represent the ancient crown of Scland, being procured from the nearest artist, the Bishop of,Andrews set it on his head. The Bishop of Glasgow also pseated to the new king a banner wrought with the armsBaliol, which he had concealed in his treasury, and undetRobert received the homage of those who devoted themselito his service. The Earls of Fife had from a remote antiqu-enjoyed the privilege of erownioj'f the kings of Scotland ; 1Duncan, the representative ci the family, favouring at tttime the English interest; his sister, the Countess of Bucluwith a boldness and enthusiasm which must have addedthe popular interestfdt for the young king, repaired to Scoiand, asserting the privilege of her ancestors, placed the erma second time on Bruce’s head. The eyes of all Scotia,were now directed towards him. He was without a rr—his past conduct had given ample earnest at once of Iintrepidity and prudence, and his countrymen regarded has their last remaining hope.The King of England was dreadfully incensed whenwas informed that, after all the pains he had taken, andthe blood which had been shed, the Scots were making tlnew attempt to shako ofi’ his authority. At a great fastivthough now old and sickly, he made a solemn vow, in preserof all his court, that lie would take ample vengeance on Bruand his followers, and accordingly marched against himthe head of a powerful army. The beginning of Bruce's uKING ROBERT BRUCE. 5’takings vras most disastrous. Two niontLs after he waslimed, the Pope excommunicated l:im, which deprivedi of ail religious benefits, and authorized any one to kill). On June 10, the new king was completely defeated atithven, near Perth, by the English Earl ui Pembroke,nee’s horse was killed under him in the action, and he wasi a moment made prisoner hy a Scottish knight, who,;ugh he st i’-ed in the English army, did not wish any harm(Bruce, and allowed him to escape. The victorious Englishncuted their prisoners with their usual cruelty.\fter the deteat at Methven, Bruce, with a few adherents,tired to th^ Highland mountains, where they were pursued.m one place of refuge to another, placed in great danger,i endured many hardships. Bruce’s wife, now Queen ofi* Scots, with several ladies, accompanied her consort and■ little band during tbeir wanderings. The only method•y had of providing for them was by fishing and hunting,uglas, who was afterwards called the Good Lord James,s the most active and successful in procuring for the un-tunate ladies such supplies as his dexterity in killing deerin fishing could furnish to them. Bruce, driven from onenee in the highlands to another, attempted to force _hisy into Lorn, but everywhere he found enemies. The' Dougals, then called Lords of Lorn, were friendly to Ed-j .rd, and, putting their men in arms, attacked Brace and hisndering adherents as soon as they attempted to enterieir country. John of Lorn, the chief of these M‘Donga’s,is dosely connected by marriage with the family of theirdered Comyn, and therefore lie hated Bruce. This chief,(rough force of numbers, again defeated Brace at a placetiled Dairy, that is, the royal field ; but, amidst all his niis-rtunes. he shewed the greatness of his strength and courage,aving directed his men to retreat through a narrow pass,■ placed himself last of the party, and fought with and slewcn of the enemy as pressed hard on them. Three followersM’Dougal, a father and two sons, called M‘Andropov, allirong men, beholding Brace protecting the retreat, of hrscn, vowed that they would either kill or make him prisoner,id the whole three rushed on the king at once. He was oniirseback in the strait pass already noticed, betwixt a steep11 and a deep lake. The first man that seized his reins.race struck such a blow with his sword as cut oft’ his hand,jid freed the bridle ; the other brother, in the mean time,lad seized him by the leg, and was attempting to unhorselim, when the king, setting spurs to his steed, made the.limal suddenly spring forward, so that the Highlander fellnder the horse’s feet, and, as he was endeavouring to rise,IG THE HISTORY OFtI»S king cleft his head in two witli sword. The fatseeing the melancholy fate of his two > ss, flew at the kand grasped him by the mantle so dose t. his body that henot room to wield his sword ; but Jr lashed his brains■with an iron hammer that hung at is. saddle-bow. tHighlander still kept his dying grasp or the king’s majso that, to extricate himself from the d 11 body, he was Cpolled to undo the clasp by which it was fastened, and 1cthat and the mantle behind him. The clasp is still inpossession of the family of Lorn, who .st 11 retain it as a :morial that the . celebrated Robert Hvucb once narnjjescaped falling into the hands of one of their foiTfathers.Bruce met with many such encounters amidst his danjous and dismal wanderings ; but still he kept up his spiand those of his companions with the hope of better tunand often recounted to his friends tales and adventuresprinces who had been placed in similar situations. Danfat last increased so much around the brave King Rabtthat he found it necessary to part from his Queen ; for winwas rapidly approaching, and it would be impossible forladies to endure this wandering sort of life when the kdblasts of winter should come on. He left, his Queen with 1Countess of Buchan and others at Kildrummie Castle, nthe head of the river Don, in Aberdeenshire, -Nigel Brqhis youngest brother, remaining to. defend the castle agahjthe English. The king, with his remaining follo'.vers, amouiing to nearly 200, determined to force a passage into Kiatyand thence cross over to the north of Ireland. On arriviat the banks of Loehlomond, there appeared no mode of ccveyance across the loch ; but after much search, Sir JanDouglas discovered a small crazy Boat, by means of whithey effected a passage. This heroic party were a night a:a day in getting over, the boat being only able to carry tinpersons at a time. The king soon after fell in with the Eiof Lennox, ignorant till then of the fate of his sovereign,'whom he had received no intelligence since, the defeatMethven ; and by his exertions the royal party were am[supplied with provisions, and enabled to reach Dunaverty,Kintyre, in safety, whence, after recruiting the strength aispirits of his followers, the king and a few of his adhererpassed over to the small island of Rathlin, on the north cosof Ireland, where they remained during the winter of 130111 luck, in the mean time, seemed to pursue his friendsScotland, The English took Kildrummie Castle, and cruelmurdered Nigel Bruce, a brave and beautiful youth. Tiadies who had attended Bruce’s queen, as well as the Quoherself, were put into strict confinement, and treated wiKING ROBERT BRUCE. ^ie greatest This news readied Bruce at Ralhlin,id reduced him almost to despair. But an incident took .lace about this time which greatly encouraged the king tnersevere in endeavouring to free his beloved country fromnglish oppression. Having received the last unpleasantews from Scotland, he was lying on his wretched bed oneJiorning, and deliberating with himself whether he had notetter resign all thoughts of the Scottish crown, and trans-ort himself and brothers to the Holy Land to tight against,ie Saracens, by which he might in some measure atone forhe murder of Comyn. But, on the other hand, he thought; would both be criminal and cowardly to relinquish the.ruse of his country and his right to the crown. While he■ as in this state of mind, and doubting what path he shouldursue, he happened to look up to the roof of the cabin infhich he lay, and perceived a large spider, which, hanging athe end of a long thread of its own spinning, was endeavour-. rg, as is its custom, to swing itself from one beam in the' oof to another, for the purpose of fixing the line on whichi meant to stretch its web. It made the attempt again and. gain without success ; and at length Bruce counted that itad endeavoured six times to carry its point, and had as often.riled in the attempt, lie thought that he had fought sixj attics against the English and their allies, and that the poorPersevering spider vras exactly in tire rame situation withj limself, having as often attempted, and still disappointed at.rhat it aimed at. “ Low,” thought Bruce, “as 1 have noaeans of knowing what is best to be done, I will be guided>y the luck which shall attend this spider. If it shall makenother effort to fix its thread, and shall be successful, 1 will' 'enture a seventh time to try my fortune in my native land ;1 rat if it shall fail, I will go to the wars in Palestine, and3 lever return to my native land again.” While forming thisesolution, the spider made another exertion with all thetrength it could muster, and succeeded in fastening itsbread on the beam which it had so often in vain attempted■o reach. Beholding the spider’s success, Bruce resolved to; .ry his own fortune ; and as he never gained a victory before,•0 he never sustained any considerable defeat afterwards.’ On the approach of spring, Sir James Douglas and Sir' richert Boyd left the king and passed over to Arran, whichies at the mouth of the Clyde. A few days afterwards,Bruce arrived from Kathlin with a fleet of S3 small galleys,md, having landed, inquired at a woman whom he met, what1 irmed men were in the island 1 She said there had latelymrrived a body of armed strangers, who had defeated thegovernor of the castle of Brathwick, had slain him and most8THE HISTORY- OFof his men. and were now amusing themsel v« with huntingthe island. Bruce, having caused himself to be guided to tl|woods where they most frequented, blew his horn and w:instantly surrounded by James Douglas and hit companiowho well know the king's manner of blowing. Being nowithin sight of his family possessions, he immediately begato form plans with Douglas how they mighi best renetheir enterprise against the English. The king now opena communication with the opposite coast of Garrick, by men)of one of his followers of the name of Cuthbert, whom lisent over to ascertain how his countrymen were teeling te|wards him. It was agreed that, if they were favourable thim, he was to make a fire on a headland, called Turnhcriifacing the island of Arran. Bruce and his companioieagerly watched for the signal, hut for some time in vairA tire on Tumhcrry-head at length became visible, and (li¬king and his men, about 300 in number, betook themselveto their galleys, and hastened over to Garrick coast, concluding that their friends were favourable. Landing on tbbeach about midnight, they found Cuthbcit waiting theiilarrival, who informed Bruce that there was little chancehelp from his subjects. “ Traitor !” cried Bruce, “ why difjyou make the signal then ?” “ The fire was not made by me,”replied Cuthbert; “ but as soon as I perceived it, I hastened to inform you how the matter stood, knowing that yobwould take it. for my signal.” Bruce determined, after sonuhesitation, to take such fortune as Heaven should be pleasedto send him. He succeeded in taking the castle of Turn-berry from Lord Percy, and in dismissing the English fromGarrick ; he also took the castle of Inverness from theEnglish, which was strongly situated on a high rock by theriver Ness. Many interesting incidents are related of Bruce;about this time. Among others wc relate the following :—A near relation of Bruce’s, in whom he confided, was, byEnglish bribes, induced to attempt his death. This traitor,along wirh his two sons, watched Bruce one morning, till heobserved him separated from all his companions, excepting alittle hoy, who waited on him as a page. The villain had asword in his hand, one of his sons had a sword and a spear,,and the other had a sword and a battle-axe. When Bruceperceived them so well armed, and no English near, he re¬called some hints which had been given him, that these menintended to slay him. Brace had only his sword, and hispage had a how and arrow. Taking the how and arrow fromthe hoy, he desired him to stand at a distance ; “ for,” saidBruce, “ if I overcome these villains, you shall have plentypf weapons; hut if I am murdered by them, you may escape,KINO ROBERT BRUCE.land inform the brave Douglas and my brother to revengei death.” The traitors advanced upon Bruce, that they mightI dispatch him at once. “Come no nearer,” cried Bmce,: “ Upon the peril of your lives.” But the old conspirator an-/ swered him with smooth words, pretending great kindness,(and still .continuing to approach him. “Traitors !” cried! Bruce, “ you have sold my life for English gold; but advance(one step nearer, and you perish." As the old villain con-i tinued to advance, Bruce, who was an excellent archer, letI fly the arrow, which penetrated his brain, and be imme¬diately died. The two sons now rushed upon Bruce, one ofwhom aimed a blow at him with his axe, but, missing idsstroke, he stumbled, and the king cut him down ere he1 could recover his feet. The other son ran on Bruce with hislong spear, but, with a dash of his sword, the king cut oil'the steel head of the villain’s weapon, and laid him prostrate. on the ground. “ These might have been reputed three gal-i lant men,” said Bruce to his page, “ had they resisted the.( sin of covetousness.”Bruce, having slain these three traitors, continued to wau-• der among the fastnesses of Carrick and in the neighbour-: ing country1 of Galloway with his hardy band, which did notj amount to more than 60 men. The people of Galloway, liv-,■ ing under the government of one M’Dougal, related to theJ Lord cf Lorn, who defeated Bruce at Dairy, and very nearlyi killed or made him prisoner, hearing that he was in theirJ country, collected 200 men, with bloodhounds to trace the.1 fugitives through the forests and morasses. Notwithstandingl the secrecy of their preparations, Bruce received intelligencei of his danger, and towards night withdrew his men to a posi-i tion where there ivas on the one >i<le a morass, and on theJ other a rivulet which had only one narrow ford, over whichJ the enemy must necessarily pass. Leaving his followers■ about half a mile distant from the river to take a little sleep,Bruce proceeded with two attendants to the ford, where theJ approaching yell of the bloodhounds soon fell upon his ears,followed by the voices of men urging it forward. The blood-I hounds, ever true to their nature, led the Galloway men1 directly to the ford where the king stood, who, fearing theJ destruction of Ids whole party should the enemy gain thei ford, boldly resolved to defend it alone. The Gallovideans| linding on their arrival but one individual posted on the( opposite side to dispute their way, the foremost of their party■ rode boldly forward ; hut, in attempting to reach the otherj side of the stream, Bruce, with a thrust of his spear, laid hi mdead on the spot. The same fate was shared by four of hiscompanions, whose bodies became a sort of rampart against10 THE HtsTonY OPthe others. Being dismayed at so unexpected and fatalreception, they fell back for a moment in some confusionbut ashamed that so many should be baffled by the proweof one man, furiously returned to the attack. They wethowever, so valiantly repulsed by Bruce that the post wstill maintained ; and at length the loud shout of the kingparty, advancing to his rescue, warned the enemy to retifafter sustaining in this unexampled conflict the loss of !men. The danger to which Bruce had been exposed, aithe bravery which he had shewn on this occasion, inflarmthe spirits of his party, and gained many to his standardliberty.Bruce required all the aid he could receive ; for Sir Aynndc Valence, who was Earl of Pembroke, the English guar'dia;was already advancing upon him with a large body of nieihaving also obtained the assistance of John of Lorn, whosfollowers were well acquainted with that species of irrctulswarfare to which the king was obliged to have reeoursJohn of Lorn had with him a bloodhound, which was saionce to have belonged to Bruce, and was so familiar with hscent, that if once it got upon his track, nothing could dive:it from its purpose. By means of this hound, John of Lorthought he would certainly accomplish the destruction of tl;Scottish king. When these two aimics advanced upoBruce, he at first determined to fight the Earl of Pembrokebut, understanding that Lorn was with a numerous partmoving round to attack him in the rear, he resolved to r<treat, fearing to engage with such unequal numbers. Iftherefore divided his adherents into three divisions, commanding them to retreat by as many ways, imagining tb,enemy would be baffled which to pursue ; appointing at thsame time where they were to meet again. When John cLora arrived at the spot where the king had divided himen, the bloodhound pursued Bruce’s division, which convinced Lorn which to follow, neglecting the other two partieof the Scots. Bruce, observing he was still pursued by :large body, desired all his party to take different waysthinking by this means to stagger his pursuers, he takinjwith him one companion, who was his own foster-brotherArriving at the place where Bruce’s men had dispersed themselves, the bloodhound followed Bruce and his foster-brotherLora accordingly commanded five of bis men, who wenswift of foot, to pursue the kiug, and either slay or take binprisoner. They ran so fast that they were soon in sight oBruce, who, when he observed, along with his foster-brotherturned upon them, and slew them all. Bruce and hitcompanion were verv much fatigued by this time, yet the)KING ROBERT BRUCE.1 ldurst not sit down to take a moment's rest, for they stillheard the cry of the bloodhound behind them. They at lengtharrived at a wood, through which ran a small rivulet, intowhich they plunged, and walked a considerable way downthe stream—destroying in this manner the strong scent onwhich the dog had proceeded—and did not halt to take anyrest until they had gone far into the wood. Lorn, havinglost the track of the king, now returned and joined Pem¬broke.The king and his companion, having rested themselves inthe wood, began to pursue their journey, in hopes of soonreaching a habitation where they might get some refreshment.In the midst of the forest, however, they met with threemen, who had the appearance of ruffians or thieves, and wereall well armed. One of them had a sheep on his back, whichthey had just stolen from a neighbouring held. Havingcivilly saluted the king, he replied to their salutation, andinquired whither they were going. “ We arc seeking forKing Robert,” answered the ruffians, “ for we intend joininghis standard.” “ If you will go with me,” said Bruce, " I willconduct you to the Scottish king.” Bruce observing theman who had spoken change colour, looked sharply at him,thought that he guessed who he was, and that he and his. companions had a design against him, for the purpose of re¬ceiving the reward which had been oflered for his life. “ .Mygood friends,” said Bruce, “as we are strangers to each other,you will go first, and we will follow.” “ You have no occa¬sion to dread any harm from us,” replied the man. “ I donot suspect any,” said Bruce, “ but this is the way in whichI choose to travel.” They walked on till they reached aruinous cottage, where the ruffians proposed dressing part ofthe sheep. Having kindled two fires, one at each end of tin-house, they broiled part of the sheep, which proved very ac¬ceptable to the king and his foster-brother. After partakingof the sheep, a heavy drowsiness came upon the king, and,having desired his companion to keep a strict look-out ontheir new acquaintances, fell asleep ; but his foster-brothei .having undergone as much fatigue as the king, soon alsofell into a deep slumber. The three villains, observing tic¬king and his companion asleep, made signs to each other,and, starting all at once, drew their swords, intending to killthem both. Although the ruffians made little noise in rising,yet it was sufficient to awaken the king, who slept butlightly, and, starling to his feet, at the same tinKqnv,'liken¬ing his friend with a push of his foot, prepare,I.to meethis dastardly companions. Kre the king's foster- hr -t'ur wasfully awake, one of The villains slew him. ^BnigeThe history of12placed In a liaxsrdous situation—three against one hut SO |heroically did he wield his trusty sword, that he slew the ithree villains, one after the other. The day being far spent, jho proceeded towards a farm-house, where he had arranged ito meet his men after their dispersion. Arriving at the house,!he entered, and found the hostess, an old, true-hearted Scots-|woman, alone. Seeing a stranger enter, she inquired whotand what he was. Brace replied that he was a traveller,!who was passing through the country. “ All travellers,'’ said >the old dame, “ are welcome here for the sake of one.”:“And who is that one,” inquired Bruce, “for whom youmake all travellers welcome?” “It is Robert Bruce, ourlawful king,” replied the good old woman ; “ and althoughlie is now pursued and hunted after with hounds and horns,1 trust I shall be spared to see him king over all Scotland.’“ Since you love Robert Bruce so well,good woman,'’ replied:the king, “ know that I am Robert Bruce.” “ You ! ’ ex-1'claimed the brave old lady; “and wherefore are you thusalone ?—where are all your men ?’’ “ I have none w^h me.just now,” answered Bruce, “ and therefore 1 must travel >alone.” “ That shall not ho,” said his brave hostess, “ for Ihave two stout and gallant sons, who shall be your servant*for life or death.” The loyal old dame, having made her sons jswear fidelity to their king, was preparing his supper, when1suddenly a great trampling of horses was heard, which the) .at first took to be some of the enemy ; but when they heard :the voice of Douglas and Edward Bruce, who had come withISO horsemen, they rejoiced exceedingly. Bruce, being in-;formed by Douglas that there were !200 English in a village!that he passed, who kept no watch, rode off at the head ofthis little army, and put the greater part of them to the sword1:that very night. Pembroke shortly afterwards retired with;his whole forces towards England, and, after another disastersimilar to that just mentioned, retreated to Carlisle. IEncouraged by succors, Biucc ventured down upon tha!low country, and reduced the districts of Kyle, Patrick, anaCuninghame to his obedience. ]'< mbroke cU teimined agairto take the field, and, putting himself at the head of a strongbody of cavalry, he advanced into Ayrshire, and came ujwith the army of Brace, when encamped on Louden DillAlthough Bruce’s army was greatly inferior, and consistecwholly of infantry, he gave Pembroke battle; and so well diehe conduct the conflict, that while the loss of the b'cots wasextremely small, Pembroke’s whole forces were put to flightr. considerable number being slain, and many made prisonersThree days after this, Bruce encountered Monthermer, at thahead of a considerable body of English, whom he also de-iHlfcti koti RT bRtJCfe. J3feated with great slaughter. These suca-sres prove d of thegreatest consequence to the cause of Brute, which wasstrengthened still further by the death of Edward I., whodied at Burgh-on-the-Sands, in Cumberland, July 7, 1.107,in full sight of Scotland, end within three miles from its fron¬tier. With his last breath he commanded that his bodyshould accompany the army,until Scotland was entiie'} sub¬dued ; but his son, disregarding his injunction, lau icd his re¬mains in Westminster Abbey.Edward II., receiving intelligence that his dominions be¬yond seas were in a disturbed state, made a few domesticarrangements, and went over to Fiance. Bruce, in bis ab¬sence, resolved upon retaliation, twice invaded England,midreturned with immense booty, without coming to am engage¬ment. During the two following years, lot! and 1312, herecovered almost all the fortified places which remained inpossession of the English. In taking the town of Perth,which was carried by escalade, Bruce himself carried a lad¬der, and was the first to enter the ditch, the water of whichstood to his throat. A French gentleman, who happened tobe present, when he saw the king pass on, exclaimed, l; Whatshall we say of our French lords, who spend their daysin good cheer and jollity, while so worthy a knight hazardshis life to win a miserable hamlet ?” Saying this, with thegay valour which has always distinguished the French nobi¬lity, he threw himself into the water, followed the king, andshared his danger. Biuce, having put all the garrison,both Scotch and English, to the sword, levelled the walls,and filled up the ditch. The terror of this example con¬strained Dumfries, Lanark, Ayr, and Bute, besides manyother places, to surrender. In the beginning of the spring,on Fastings-even, the night before Lent, usually celebratedby Bacchanalian rites, James Douglas surprised the castle ofRoxburgh while the garrison were engaged in their revels ;and, shortly after, the almost impregnable castle of Edinburghwas recovered by Thomas Randolph. The Isle of Man like¬wise surrendered, and the fortresses were everywhere de¬stroyed, lest they should afterwards prove receptacles lor theEnglish.Edward, hearing of the great success which attended Bruce'scareer, resolved to raise a great army to extirpate a nation sooften rebellious, and always unquiet, hostile, and troublesome.In this army, which consisted of 100,000 fighting men, wereEnglish, Welsh, Irish, and these of the Scotch who still ad¬hered to the English faction, besides the crowd of servants,attendants, and sutlers, who 1 r. ught provisions by sea cudland to support them in a country not very fertile in itself,^ .THE HISTORY OP14and which had for so many years been the theatre of war ::an immense multitude followed all, to be distributed incolonies, and receive lands, who had brought their wives andchildren along with them. England's whole strength pre¬sented thus to view, produced such confidence in every breast,that the topic of conversation with this vast assemblage was]more about the division of the spoil than about carrying onthe war.Bruce, being informed of the enemy’s great preparations,likewise arrayed his forces—a small number, indeed, against.such a multitude—only 30,000 men, but they were accustomedto war. were hardened by domestic sufferings, and carried intheir right hands their lives, their fortunes, and every hopethat is dear to man. With this little army ho encamped on .the left side of the river Bannock, which has steep banks,few and narrow fords, an l which is only two miles distantfrom Stirling. Below the hills, before it reaches the Forth,it passes through a country somewhat level, but impeded bymarshes in various places. For the most part in winter itrushes with a rapid torrent, but at the then season of theyear, in consequence of the heats of midsummer, the waterswere low and fordable in many places. Bruce being inferiorin men was just the more anxious, by every possible"art andstratagem, to render the passage of the river difficult to theEnglish, who occupied the right bank. Ho caused deepditches to be dug in the level planes, in which he fixedsharp stakes in such a manner, that when covered over withslight turf the. deceit was concealed. He ordered iron cal¬trops—consisting of sharp spikes, which, however thrown,always, when lying, presents one or two of their points up¬wards—to be scattered, wherever it appeared they weald boserviceable.The two armies having now pitched near each other onopposite hills, with only a small river between, Edward sentfrom his camp, by rather a circuitous route, 000 cavalry torelieve Stirling. Bruce, supposing these sent to plunder theadjoining fields, gave Thomas Hand >lph 500 horse to checkthe marauders an l protect the country, and not to declinefighting if he saw a favourable opportunity. The enemy,observing this detachment, desisted from their intendedmarch, and wheeled upon Kindolph’s party. The com¬bat was keenly conte ted, victory inclining to neither side,when James Douglas, alarmed for his countrymen, en¬treated Bruce to allow him to go to their assistance. AsBrace had given strict oners to Randolph not to allow anysuccours to be thrown into Stirling, he refused him assist¬ance. “ Let him,” said he, “ redeem ids own fault: I can-KiNG ROBERT BRUCE.Utoot break tbe order of battle for bis sake.” “ In truth,” re¬plied Douglas, “ I cannot stand by and see Randolph perish,and, therefore, with your leave, I must aid him.” Bruce un¬willingly consented, and Douglas flew to his friend's assist¬ance. While approaching, he perceived the English werefalling into disorder, and that the perseverance of Randolphhad prevailed over their impetuous courage. “ Halt!” criedDouglas, “ those brave men have repulsed the enemy; let usnot diminish their glory by sharing it.”Bruce was in front of the line when the English appeared.He was meanly dressed, with a crown above his helmet, anda battle-axe in his hand. Sir Henry de Bohun, an Englishknight, armed cap-a-pie, rode forward to encounter him.Robert struck his antagonist so violently with bis battle-axethat he cleft him to the chin, after which the English van-; guard retreated in confusion. The Scottish generals blamedtheir king for his rashness in thus encountering Bohun ; buthe, conscious of the justice of their charge, only replied, “Ihave broke my good battle axe.”On Monday, June 24, 1314, the whole English armymoved on to the attack. The van, consisting of archers andlanccmen, was commanded by Gilbert de Clare, Earl ofGloucester, nephew to the English king, and Humphry deJiohun, constable of England ; but the ground was so nar¬row that the rest of the army had not sufficient room to ex¬pand itself, so that it appeared to the Scotch as consistingof one great compact body. The main bodv was brought upby Edward in person, attended by Amyer de Valence, Earlof Pembroke, and Sir Giles d’Argentine, two experiencedcommanders. Maurice, Abbot of Inchaftray, placing himselfon an eminence, celebrated mass in the sight of the Scottisharmy. He then passed along the front, barefooted, with acrucifix in his hands, and, in few words, exhorted the Scotsto light for their king and country. The Scots fell down ontheir knees as he passed, which being perceived by Edward,he cried out, “ They yield ! See, they implore mercy ! ”“ They do,” answered Ingelram dc Umphraville, one of hiscommanders ; “ they do implore mercy, hut not from us.On that field they will be victorious or die.” As both par¬ties were violently exasperated against each other, tbe en¬gagement began with great fury. Bruce, perceiving that histroops were grievously annoyed by the English archers, whosearrows were flying like flakes of snow, ordered Sir RobertKeith, the marischal, with a few armed horsemen, to make.acircuit, and attack the archers in flank. This was instantlyaccomplished, and as the weapons of the’archers were uselessiu a close encounter, they could make very little resistance.16 l-HB ttifeTOBY OV1’ne line English cavalry rushed forward to support theirarchers; but, coming over the ground which was dug full ofpits, the horses and riders fell into them, and a general dis¬order ensued. Bruce now advj-.nced with all his forces, and'pressed tliom more closely. Tin young and gallant Earl ofGloucester attempted to rally th. fugitives, but was thrown-fnrr; ~:r. horse and cut in pieces, which increased the general'At this critical moment, an event -happened';wmcn Helped to decide the victon :—In a valley to the rear,west "t a rising ground, now called Gillies' Hill, Bruce had,,lw. 1 Ids baggage, under the charge of the ojHies or ser¬vants and followers of the camp. At the critical momentwhen the English line was wavering and confusion reignedon the left flank, these gillies, cither from curiosity to bo-,hold the battle, or with the design of assisting their country¬men, advanced to the summit of the hill, where, seeing theircompanions likely to vain the day, they began to descend thehill with loud re-echoing shouts, and, being taken for a re¬inforcement of the Scottish army, caused the English to giveway in the greatest confusion, who fled in every direction.:Many sought refuge among the rocks in the neighbourhoodof Stirling" Castle, and many were drowned in the rivers.Pembroke and Sir Giles d’Argentine bad never quitted Ed¬ward during the action; but now seeing the battle irre¬trievably lost, Pembroke constrained 'die king to quit theHeld. D’Argentine refused to fly. He was a man of greatvalour, and had a high reputation in Scotland. 11c is said tohave thrice encountered ttfo Saracen warriors at once in Pa-;hstine, and to have killed them both each tune. His valournow availed him but little, for, rushing into the midst of the ,Scottish army, he was instantly cut in pieces. Edward, in hisflight, was closely pursued by "Douglas with a party of sixtyhorsemen. At the Torwuod he met .'Sir Lawrence Abemothy,who was hastening to the English rendezvous with twenty"horsemen. The latter soon abandoned the cause of the van¬quished, and joined Douglas in the pursuit of Edward, whofled to Linlithgow. He had scarcely arrived there whenlie was alarmed by the approach of the -tcots, and again howas obliged to fly. Douglas and Abernathy followed him Iwith the greatest assiduity, but, notwithstanding their ut¬most efforts, Edward got safe to Dunbar, fifty miles from thefield of battle, where he was received by the Earl of March,who protected him till he could lie conveyed by sea to Eng¬land. .fSuch was t’ae decisive and glorious victory ot LannocK-burn, the greatest defeat the English ever sustained from theSoots, On the side of the latter no persons of note were slainKING ROBERT BRUCE. J1excepting Sir William Vipont, and Sir Walter J?oss, the fa¬vourite of Edward Bniee ; and so grievously was Edward af¬flicted by the death of this man, that he exclaimed, “ Ohthat this day’s work were undone, so lloss had not died ' ”On the English side were slain 27 barons and bannerets, and22 taken prisoners ; of knights there were kihed 12, and 6(1taken prisoners; of esquires there fell TOO ; but the numberof the common men who were killed or taken was neverknown with certainty. The English, who had taken- refugeamong the rocks in the neighbourhood of Stirling, surrenderedat discretion : the castle was surrendered, and the privy sealof England fell into the hands of the Scottish monarch.The spoils of the English camp were immense, and enrichedthe conquerors, along with the ransom of many noble prison¬ers who fell into their hands. Bruce shewed much generosityin his treatment of the prisoners who fell to his share. Heset at liberty Ralph de jVionthermer and Sir MarmadukeTwerge, two officers of high rank, without ransom ; and byhumane and generous offices alleviated the misfortunes of therest. The dead bodies of the Earl of Gloucester and LordClifford were sent to England, that they might be interredwith the usual solemnity. There was one Bastpn, a Carmelitefriar and poet, whom Edward is said to have brought withhim in his train to be spectator of his achievements, and torecord his triumphs. Boston was made prisoner, and obligedto celebrate the victory of Bruce over the English. This hedid in wretched Latin rhymes, which, however, procured hisfreedom.After the battle of Bannockburn, the Ear! of Hereford re¬treated to the castle of Bothwell, where he was besieged byEdward Bruce, and soon obliged to surrender. He was ex¬changed for the wife, sister, and daughter < f the king, theyoung Earl of Mar, and the Bishop ot Glasgow. The terrorof the English was now almost incredible. Walsinghatn as¬serts, that many of them revolted to the Scots, and assistedthem in plundering their own country. “ The English,” hesays, “ were so bereaved of their wonted intrepidity, that100 of that nation would have fled from two or three Scots¬men 1”_ Edward Bruce and Douglas entered England on the eastside, ravaged Northumberland, and laid the bishopric of Dur¬ham under contribution. Thence they proceeded to Rich¬mond, laid Appleby and some other towns in ashes, and re¬turned home laden with plunder. Edward summoned a Par¬liament at York, to concert means for the public security ;and appointed the Earl of Pembroke to be guardim of thecountry between the Trent and the Tweed. Bruce, /vowever,THE HISTORY OP18sent ambassadors to treat of peace ; but the Scots were toomuch elated with their good fortune to make concessions,and the English were not yet sufficiently humbled to yield toall their demands. The ravages of war were renewed. TheScots continued their incursions into England, and leviedcontributions in different places. In 1315, the English af¬fairs seemed to revive. The Scots, indeed, plundered Dur- ■ham and Hartlepool, but they were repulsed from Carlisle,and failed in an attempt on Berwick.The Irish of Ulster, oppressed by the English Government,implored the assistance of Robert, and ofl'ered to acknowledgehis brother Edward as their sovereign, who, accordingly, land¬ed at Carrickfergus, May 25,1315, with 6000 men. This wasan enterprise evidently beyond the power of Scotland to ac¬complish. However, there were motives which induced Ro¬bert to consent. The offer of a crown inflamed the ambitionof Edward Bruce, whose impetuous valour made no accountof difficulties however great. It might have been deemedungenerous, and perhaps impolitic, to have rejected the pro¬posals of the Irish for the advancement of his brother, towhom the king owed more than he could repay. Besides,the invasion of Ireland seemed a proper expedient for divid¬ing the English forces. But the issue proved unfortunate.The king himself had gone over into Ireland to assist hisbrother in attempting the subjection of that country ; and,during his absence, the English had made several attemptsto disturb the tranquillity of Scotland.The Earl of Arundel invaded the forest of Jedburgh witha numerous army ; but being drawn into an ambuscade byDouglas, he was defeated with great loss. Edmund de Cail-laud, a knight of Gascony and governor of Berwick, invadedand wasted Teviotdale ; but while he was returning home,laden with spoil, he was attacked, defeated, and killed byDouglas. Soon after this, intelligence was conveyed toDouglas, that one Robert Neville had boasted that he wouldencounter him whenever he saw his banner displayed. Dou¬glas soon gave him an opportunity. He advanced towardsBerwick, displayed his banner, and burnt some villages.Neville, provoked at these rav;iges, took the field, encounteredDouglas, but was defeated and slain.By sea the English invaded Scotland, and anchored off In-verkeithing, in the Frith of Forth, where they soon afterlanded: 500 men, under the Earl and Sheriff of Fife, at¬tempted to oppose their landing, but were intimidated by thenumber of their enemies. William Sinclair, Bishop of Dun-keld, happened to meet the fugitives, and having, by his re¬proaches, obliged them to rally, he led them on again to theKINO ROBERT BRUCE.10charge, and drove the English to their ships with consider¬able loss. For this exploit, Robert conferred the title of theKing's Bishop on Sinclair ; and he was long venerated byhis countrymen on this account.In ISliJ, King Robert proceeded in his enterp.ise againstBerwick. A citizen of that town, named Spalding, havingbeen ill used by the governor, resolved to revenge himself,and, therefore, wrote a letter to a Scottish lord, whose rela¬tion he had married, offering, on a certain night, to betraythe post when he kept guard. The nobleman communicatedthis important intelligence to the king, who commanded himto repair to a certain place with a body of troops, to whichplace he also gave separate orders to Douglas and Randolphto repair at the same hour, each with a body of troops underhis command. The forces thus cautiously assembled marchedto Berwick, and, assisted by Spalding, scaled the walls, mak¬ing themselves masters of the town in a few hours. Thegarrison of the castle, perceiving that the number of Scotswas but small, made a desperate sail}' with the men who hadtied into the castle from the town ; but, after an obstinateconflict, they were defeated and driven back, chiefly by theextraordinary valour of a young knight, named Sir WilliamKeith of Galston, March 28, 1318. King Robert no soonerheard of the. success of his forces against the town than hehastened to lay siege to the castle of Berwick, which wassoon obliged to capitulate ; after which the Scots enteredNorthumberland, and took the castles of Wark, Harbottle,and Mitford.In May 1318, they again invaded England, and penetratedinto Yorkshire. In their progress, they burnt the towns ofNorthallerton, Boroughbridge, Scarborough, and Skipton inCraven, forcing the inhabitants of Ripen to redeem them¬selves by paying 1000 merks : after which they returned toScotland with much booty ; and, as an English historian ex¬presses it, “ driving their prisoners before them like flocksof sheep.”In 1319, Edward, having obtained the interposition of theRope, made similar attempts with other powers to the pre¬judice of the Scottish nation. Accordingly, he requested theEarl of Flanders to prohibit tho Scots from entering hiscountry ; but to this request he received the following re¬markable reply: “ Flanders is the common country of .idmen : I cannot prohibit any merchants from traffickingthither, for such prohibition w’ould prove the ruin of mypeople.” On this, Edward once more determined to haverecourse to war ; and with this view' commanded his army toassemble at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, July 24, 1319. Every20THE HISTORY OFthing being in readiness, the English army approached Ber¬wick, which was commanded by Walter, grand Steward ofScotland. This nobleman had lung apprehended an attackfrom the. English, and had taken every means of defence inhis power. The enemy, however, confiding in their numbers,made a general assault, but were repulsed on the 7th of Sep¬tember af ter a most obstinate contest. Their next attemptwas on the side towards the river. At that time the walls ofBerwick were of an inconsiderable height, and it was pro¬posed to bring a vessel close to them, from whence the troopsmight enter by a drawbridge let down from the mast; butthe Idcotsannoyed the assailants so much that theycouldnotbring the vessel within the proper distance ; and at the ebbof tho tide if. grounded, and was burnt by the besieged. TheEngli -h had then recourse to a newly invented engine, whichthey called a sow. It was a large fabric composed, of timber,and well roofed, having stages within it, and in height sur¬passing the wall of the town. It moved on wheels, andserved for the double purpose of conducting the miners to thefoot of the wall, and armed nun to the storm. The greatengine moved on to the walls, and, at length, a huge stonestruck it with such force that the beams gave way, and theScots pouring down combustibles upon it, it was burnt. TheEnglish, however, still continued the attack. The Steward,with the reserve of 10,0 men, went from post to post, re¬lieving those who were wounded or unfit for combat. Uuosoldier of the reserve only remained with him when an alarmwas given that the English had burnt a barrier at the portcalled St Mary’s, possessed themselves of the drawbridge, andtired the gate. The Steward hastened thither, called downthe guard from the rampart, ordered the gate to be set open,and rushed out upon the enemy. A desperate combat en¬sued, and continued till the close of the day, when the Eng¬lish commanders withdrew their troops. Notwithstandingthis brave defence, it was evident that the town could nothold out long without a speedy relief; and Kobert could not, “with any probability of success, attack the fortified camp ofthe English. He, therefore, determined to make a powerfuldiversion in England, to oblige Edward to abandon the under¬taking. By order of the king, 15,000 men entered Englandby the western marches, and laid waste Yorkshire. TheArchbishop of York hastily collected a numerous body ofcommons and ecclesiastics, with whom he encountered theScots at Mitt'in, near Boroughbridge, in the North Biding ofYorkshire. The English were instantly routed, 3000 were leftdead on the field, and a great part of those who fled perishedin the Swale. In this action 300 ecclesiastics Ipst their lives.AKINO ROBERT BRUCE.2!The news of this successful inroad alarmed the besiegers ofBerwick. The barons, whose estates lay to the southward,remote from the Scottish depredations, were eager for con¬tinuing the siege. But they were opposed by those of thenorth, who were no less eager to abandon the enterprise, andreturn to the defence of their own country. With them theEarl of Lancaster concurred in opinion; who, understandingthat his favourite manor of Pontefract was exposed to theravages of the Roots, departed with all his adherents. Uponthis, Edward drew off' the remainder of his army, and attempted to intercept Randolph and Douglas, but they eludedhim, and returned in safety to Scotland. The failure of thislast attempt inducted Edward seriously to think of peace;and, accordingly, a truce was concluded, December 31, 1319 ;which interval of tranquillity the Scots made use of to address a manifesto to the Pope in justitication of their cause.This was drawn up in a spirited manner, and made a veryconsiderable alteration in the councils of Rome. The Pope,seeing that Bruce would not be terrified into submission, or¬dered Edward to make peace with him in the best mannerhe could. A negociation was, accordingly, set on foot, whichsoon terminated ineffectually; the truce was not renewed;and in 1322 a mutual invasion took place. The Scots pene¬trated into Lancashire by the western marches, and, afterplundering the country, returned home with un extraordinarybooty; while Edward made great preparations for an expedi¬tion into Scotland, which took ’place in August. In this,however, he was unsuccessful. Bruce had caused all thecattle to be driven oft', and all the effects of value removedfrom Lothian and the Morse, fixing his camp at Culross, onthe north of the river Forth. Edward, however, penetratedas far as Edinburgh, but without hopes of subduing the king¬dom. For want of provisions many of his soldiers perished,and he was at last constrained to retire without having seenthe enemy.On their return to England, Edward's soldiers burnt theabbeys of Holyrood, Melrose, Dryburgh, Ac., and killed manyof the monks. As soon as they retired, they were pursuedby the Scots, who laid siege to the castle of IN or ham. Ed¬ward lay at the abbey of Biland, in Yorkshire, with a body oftroops advantageously posted near it. The Scots attemptedto surprise the king, and it was with the utmost difficultythat he escaped to York, leaving all his baggage and trcasuieto the enemy. The English camp was supposed to be acces¬sible only by a narrow pass, but Douglas undertook to forceit, and Randolph presented himself as a volunteer in thisdangerous service, under his friend Douglas. The High-|!TIIK HISTORY OFladders and men of the Isles climbed the precipice on whichthe English camp stood, and the enemy were driven out withgreat loss. The Scots pursued them to the gates of York,,wasted the country ivithout control, and returned home un¬molested.Edward, disheartened by repeated losses, agreed to a cessa¬tion of arms, from March 30, 13’23, to June 12, 1336. Thetreaty was ratified by Robert, as King of Scotland, June 7,1323. Robert’s next care was to reconcile himself to thechurch, and to obtaiu from the Pope the title of King, whichhad been so long denied him : which at last, with difficulty,was obtained.In the 1 eginuing of 1327, Edward II. was deposed, andbarbarously murdered in Berkeley Castle by Gournay andMantravers. He was succeeded by his son, Edward III.,then in the 15th year of his age. lie renewed the negocia-tions for peace, and ratified the truce which his father hadmade; but hearing that the Scots had resolved to invadeEngland if a peace was not immediately concluded, he sum¬moned his barons to meet bim in arms at Newcastle ; andfortified York. On June 15, 1327, Douglas and Randolphinvaded England by the western marches, with an armyof 20,000 horsemen. Against them Edward led an army ofat least 30.000 men, who assembled at Durham on the 13thof July. The Scots proceeded with the utmost cruelty, burn¬ing and destroying everything as they went along; and onthe 18th of the same month, the English discovered them bythe smoke and flames which marked their progress. Theymarched forward in order of battle towards the quarter wherethe smoke was perceived, but, meeting with no enemy tortwo days, they concluded that the Scots had retired. Dis¬encumbering themselves there of their heavy baggage, theyresolved, by a forced march, to reach the river Tyne, and, byposting themselves on the north bank of that river, to inter¬cept the Scots on their return. On the 20th of July, thecavalry, having left the infantry behind, crossed the river atHalidon ; hut before the rest of the army could come up, theriver was so swollen by sudden rains, that it could no longerbe forded ; and thus the English troops remained divided forseveral days, without any accommodation for quarters, and inthe greatest want of provisions and forage. The soldiers nowbegan to murmur, and it was resolved again to proceed south¬wards. The king proclaimed a reward of lands, to the valueof .£'100 yearly for life, to the person who should first discoverthe enemy “ on diy ground, where they might be attackedand many knights and esquires swam across the river on thisstrange errand. The army continued its march for threeKIXG ROBERT BIUICE.days, they came in sight of the enemy. The Scotswere advantageously posted on a rising ground, having theriver Wear in front, and their flanks secured by rocks andpreeipiges. The English dismounted and advanced, hopingto allure the Scots from their strong p st, but in vain. Ed-vardytheh sent a herald to Randolph and Douglas, with amessage in the style of chivalry: “ Either,” said he, “ sufteime to pass the river, and leave me room for ranging my forces ;or do you pass the river, and 1 will leave you room to rangeyours ; and thus shall we tight on equal terms.” To this theScottish commanders replied, “ We wili do neither. On ourroad hither we hav' burnt and spoiled the country, and herewe arC fixed while to us it seems good; and if the king ofEngland is offended, let him come over and chastise us.”The armies continued in the sight of each other for twodays'; after which, the English, understanding that their enc-ifiics were distressed for provisions, resolved to maintain aclose blockade, and to reduce them by famine. Next day,however, they were surprised to find that the Scots had se¬cretly decamped, and taken up their post two miles up theriver in ground still stronger, and of more difficult access,amidst a great wood. The English encamped opposite tothem near Stanhope Park. At midnight, Douglas undertooka most desperate enterprise, resembling those of anci-ntheroes. With 200 horsemen l a approached the Englishcamp, and entered it under the guise of a chief commandercalling the rounds. Having thus eluded the sentinels, he.passed on to the royal quarters, overthrew everything that op¬posed him, and furiously assaulted the king’s tent. Thedomestics of Edward desperately defended their master ; andbis chaplain, with many others of his household, were slain.However, the king himself escaped ; and Douglas, disappoint¬ed of his prey, rushed through the enemy, and effected a re¬treat with incoashiti able loss. Two nays after, the Scots re¬tired to their cvn country, which, when Edward was as¬sured of, he burst into tears ; for the enterprise, which thusterminated in disappointment and dishonour, had cost an im¬mense sum. Every preparation had been made, and auxi¬liaries bad even been procured, at a most enormous expense,from Ilainault. These consisted of heavy-armed cavalry;and they were now so much worn out that they couldscarcely move. The few living horses were became unser¬viceable, in a campaign of three weeks ; so that they wereobliged td procure horses to convey them to the south ofEngland.In 1328, Edward, wearied out with continual loss anddisappointments, consented to a perpetual peace betwixt the21 TliK mSTORY OP KIXG ROBERT BRUCE.twokinsdorns, on the following conditions :—1. The stone onwhich the kings of Scotland were wont to sit at the time oftheir coronation, shall he restored to the Scots. 2. The kingof England engages to employ his good offices at the Papalcourt for obtaining a revocation of all spiritual processes de¬pending before the Holy See against the king of Scots, oragainst his kingdom or subjects. 3. For these causes, and tomake reparation for the ravages committed in England by theSoots, shall pay 30,000 merks to the king of England. 4.Restitution shall be made of the possessions belonging toecclesiastics in either kingdom, whereof they may have beendeprived during the war. 5. Put there shall not be any resti- .tution made of inheritances which have fallen into the handsof the king of England, or of the king ef Scots, by reason ofthe war between the two nations, or through the forfeitureof former possessions. 6. Johanna, sister of the kitm of Eng¬land, shall bo given in marriage to David, son and heir tothe king of Scots. 7. The king of Scots shall provide thePrincess Johanna in a jointure of .£2000 yearly, secured onlands and rents, according to a reasonable estimation. (!. Ifeither of the parties shall fail in performing these conditions,he shall pay 2000 pounds of silver to the Papal treasury.But good King Robert did not long survive this joyful event.Finding that he was dying, he requested to see his counsellorsand friends whom he most trusted. He told them that hesorely repented of all his misdeeds, especially of having slainthe Red Cojivn before the holy altar ; and that, if he hadlived, it was his intention, in expiation of this offence, to :have gone to the Holy Land, and made war against the ene-'mies of the Cross. He requested his dearest friend andgreatest warrior, good Lord James Douglas, that he shouldcarry his heart to Jerusalem, to be deposited in the Saviour’ssepulchre. On the 7th of June 1329 King Robert died, aged55. unquestionably the greatest of all the Scottish monarchs. 'His deafh seems to have been occasioned by the excessive ifatigues of military service ; and his disease, called by his¬torians of those times a leprosy, was probably an inveteratescurvy, occasioned by his way of living. His heart was taken :out, embalmed, and put into a silver case.Douglas set out with his precious charge, but he never gotto the end of his journey, having been slain in a battle withthe Moors in Spain. His body, which was found lying onthe field of battle, with Bruce’s heart under him, werebrought home; the former was buried in the church ofDouglas, and the latter deposited in Melrose Abbey.  i—-