THECOMICAL SA\ iNGSOFPaddy from Cork,WITHHis Coat Button'd Beh:niyBeing an elegant Conference between Englift TomIrifh Teague ; with Paddy’s Catechifm, his opinionof Purgatory, the State of the Dead; and his Sup¬plication when a Mountain Sailor.ALSO,/f Creed for all Rcmijh BeHevcrsoIn all its Parts, carefully corredted.PAISLEY:pRTSr2D BY J. SEItroS-Coaiical Sayings of Psdy from Cork.PART I,Tonr/^l OOD mqrmw- Sir, this is a very cold cay.Vi? Teag. Aria, dear honey, yefternight wasa very cold morning.Tom. Well brother travellesvof what nation art thou ?Teag. Arra dear fhoy, I came from my own kingdom.Tom. Why, t know that, but where is thy kingdom?Teag. Allelieu dear honey, don't you know Corkin Ireland.Tom. You fool! Cork is not a kingdom but a city.Teag. Then dear fhoy, I’m fnre it is in a kingdom.Tom. And what is the reafon you have come andleft your own dear country iTeag. Arra dear honey, by fhaint Patrick, theyhave got fuch comical laws in our country that theywill put a man to death in perfect health; fo to befree and plain with you, neighbour, I was obliged tocome away, for I did not chufe to ftay among fucha people that can hang a poor man when they pleafe,if he either Reals, robs, or kills a man.Tom. Ay, but I take you to be a more honeftman than to Real, rob, or kill a man.Teag. HoneR, I am perfectly honeR. When I wasbut a child, my mother would have traded me witha houfe full of mill-ftones.Tom. What was the matter, was you guikyof nothing?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I did harm to nobody ; hutfancied an old gentleman’s gun, and afterwards madeit my own.Tern. Very well boy, and did you keep it fo ?Teag. Keep it, I would have kept it with all myheart, while I lived, death itfelfcould not have partedus, but the old rogue, the gentleman, being a juRice ofpeace himfelf, bad me tried for the right of it, andhew I came by it, and fo took it again.Tom. And how did you clear yourfelf withoutpu'TUKraent ?Teag A-tra, dear fhoy, I told him a parcel of lies,$l>ut they would not believe me ; for I faid that I gotit, front my father when it was a little piftol, and Ihad kept it till it had grow n a gun, and was defign-td to ul’e it well until it had grown a big cannon, andthen fold it to the military. They all fell a laughingat me as I had been a fool, and bade me go home tomy mother and clean the potatoes.Tom How long is it fince you left your own country iTeag. Arra, dear honey, l do not raind whether itbe a fortnight or four months, but I think myfelf, itis a long time; they tell rae my mother is dead fincc,but I wont believe it, until I get a letter from her owwhand, for fhe is a very good fcholar, fuppofe file canneither write nor read.Tom. Was you ever in England before ?Teag. I that I was, and in Scotland too.Tom. And were they kind to you when you was inScotland ?Teag. They were that kind that they kickt my arfefor me, and the reafon was, becaufe 1 would not paythe whole of the liquor that was drunk in the com¬pany, though the landlord and his two fons got mouth¬ful about of it all, and I told -them it was a tricis upontravellers, firft to drink hfs liquor, and then to kickhim out of doors.Tcm. I really think they ufed-you badly, but couldyou not beat them ?Teag. That’s what I did beat them all to their-own contentment; but there was one of them ftrong-er than me, who would have killed me, if the othertwo had not pulled me away, and I had to run forit, till his paffion was over; then they made us driultand gree again ; we fhorsk hands and made a bargain,never to harm other more ; but this bargain did notlaft long, for, as I was killing his month, by lhaintPatrick, I bit his nofe, which caufed him to beat mevery fore for my pains.Tom. Well Pady, what calling was you wher. taScotland ?4Teag. Why, fir, I was no bufinefs at all, but whafJo you call the green tree that's like the wh;n bulh,people makes a thing to fweep the houfe of it ?Tom. O yes, Pady, they tall it a broom. *Teag. Ay, ay. you have it, I was a gentleman'*broom, only waited oi> his horfes, and wallied the dilhe*for the cook : and when my mafter rode a-hunting, iwent behind with the dogs.Tom. O yes, Pady, it was the groom you mean, butI fnr.cy yoy was the Cook’s mate, or kitchen boy ?Tecg. No, no, it was the broom that l was, and if1 had ftaid their till now, 1 might hav? been advancedas high as my mafter, for the ladies loved me fo well,that they laughed at me.Tom. They might admire you for afool.Teag. What, fir, do you imagine that 1 am not afoci ? no, no, my mafter afked counfel of me in all hismatters, and l always gave him a reafon for everything: I told him one morning that he went toofoon to the hunting, that the hares were not got outcf their beds ; and neither the barking of horns, northe blowing of dogs could make them rife, it wasfuch a cold morning that night ; fo they all ran awaythat we cajched, when we did not fee them. Thenmy mafter told rfiy words to feveral gentlemen, thatwas at dinner with him, and they admired me forwant of judgement, far my head was all ofa lump ;adding, they were going a-fifhing along with myniafter and me in the afternoon ; but 1 told them thatit was a very unhappy thing for any man to go a-hurrting iv, the morning, and a fifaing in the after¬noon ; they would try it, but they had better ftaid nthome, for it came on a moll terrible fine night, cf fouth-veft rain, and even down wind ; fo the fifh- s got all be¬low the w?ter to keep them dry from the Oiower, andwe catched them all, but got noneTom How long did you ferve that gentleman, Pady ?Teag Arra, dear honey, I was with him fix weeks,end he teat me fevdc times,5Tom. For what did he beat you ? was it for youimadntfs and foolifh tricks:Teag Dear flioy, it was not ; but for beinj tooruquifitive, and going ih.'rpfy about bufinefs Firll,be fent me to tire poll, office, to inqinre if there wa,*a'V" letters for him j fo when I came there, fa’;l f,is their any lerters here for my m.afler to-<la ? —1'ben they afked who was my mailer ; fir, laid r,it is ?ery bad manners in you to afk v.-y gen‘!eman’sname ; at this they laughed, mocking me, and Lid,they could give me none, if 1 would not tell mymailer’s name ; fo 1 returned to my mailer,, andtold him the impudence of the fellow, who wouldgive me no letters unlefs I would tell him yourname, mafter. My mailer at this flew in a p dlion,and kicked me dowu flairs, faying, go, you rogue,and tell my name dircrflly, how can the gentlemangive letters, when he know* not who is aiking forthem. Then l returned and told my mailer’s name,lo they told there was one for him, I looked at it,being -.cry (mall, and ailing the price of 1t, theytold me it was fix pence, fix pence, faid l, will youtake fix-pence for that fmall thing, and felling big¬ger, ones for two pence ; faith I am not fuch a bigfool ; you think to cheat me now, this is not a con-fcionable way of dealing, i’il acquaint my mafL-rwith it firlt : fo I came and told my mailer howthey would have fix pence for his letter, and wasfelling bigger ones for two-pence ; he took up rr.ybead and broke his crepe with it, calling me a thou-fand fools, faying, the man was more juft fhan totake any thing but the right for it ^ but I was furethere was none of them right, buying and fellingfuch dear penny-worthe. I came again for mydear fix-pence letter; and as the fellow was ihufflingthrough a parcel of them, feeking for it again, tomake the bed of a dear market, I pickt up two, andhome I comes to my mailer, thinking he would bepleafed with what I had done; now, faid I, mailer.0i think I liave put a trick upon them fellows, forfelling the letter to you. What have you do^e i Ihave only taken other two letters ; here’s one for youmatter* to help your dear penny-worth, and I’ll fend theother to my mother to fee whether fhe be dead or alive,for (he’s always angry, I dont write to her 1 had nothe word well fpoken, till he got up his (lick and beat, me heartily for it, and feat me back to the fellows againwith the two, l had very ill will but nobodywould buy them of me. .Tom. Well, Pady, l think you was to Llame, andyour matter too, for he ought to have taugl>t you howCa go about thefe affairs, and not beat you fo.Teag. Arra, dear honey, I had too much wit ofmy own to be teached by bim, ofc any body elfe;he began to inftruft me after that, ■ how I fhouldi'erve the table, and fach natty things as thofe: onenight I took ben a roatted fitti in one hand, and apiece of bread in the other: 'the old gentleman wasIn fancy he would not take it, and told me, I fhouldbring nothing to him without a trencher huiow it.The fame night as he was going to bed, he callfedfor his flippers and pidr-pot, fo I clapt a trencherbelow the pifh-pot, and another below the flippers,and ben I goes, one in every hand no fooner didI enter the room, than he threw the pifh-pot at me,which broke both my head and the pifh pot at oneblow; now, (aid I, the devil is in my matter alto¬gether, for what he commands at one time he coun¬termands at another. Next day I went with him tothe market to buy a fack of potatoes, I went untothe potatoe monger and alk’d what he took for thefull of a Scot’s cog, he weighed them in, he aflcedno lefs than four-pence ; four-pence, faid I, if f werebut fn Dublin, I could get the double of that fornothing, and in Cork and Kinfale far cheaper;them is but fmall things like peafe, faid I, but the^potatoes in my country is as big as your head, finemeat all made up in bleffed mouthfuls j the petatoe^ Vmerchant called ire a Kar, and ray mafter ca-ie-ii me a fool, fo the ore fell a-kickicg me, and the ot'netI a cuffing me, L was in fuch bad bread among them,ithat 1 called ro^fclf both a liar and a fool, to get oSalire.Tom. And how did you carry yeur potatoes homefrom the market 1 « •Teag Arra, dear (hoy, I carried tgie horfe andthem both, beJides a big loaf and two bottles ofVine; for I put the oid horfe on my back, an ldrove the potatoes before me, and when f tied theload to the loaf, I had nothing to do fctut to carrythe bottles in my hand ; brt bad luck to the wny asI came home, for a nail out of the heel’of my footfprung a leak in my brogue, which pricked the verybone, bruifed the fkin, and made my brogue itfelfto blood ( and I having no hammer by me but ahatchet I left at home, £ had to beat down the nailwith the bottom of the bottle ; and by the boc(k, dearIhoy, it broke to pieces, and fqaitered the wine in mymouth.Tom. And how did yon recompence your mailerfor the lofs of the bottle of wine?Teag. Arra, dear Ihoy, I had a mind to cheat hintnnd myfelf too, for I took the bottle to a blackfmith,and defired him to ment* it, that I might go to thebutcher and get it full of bloody water, hat he told mehe could not work in any tiling but fteel and iron.Arra, faid I, if I tcere in my own kingdom, I could get:a blackfmith who would make a bottle out of a tfone,and a fton6 out-of nothing.Tom. And how did you trick your mailer out of it ’Teag. Why the old rogue begap to chide me, afle^.;ing me what way I broke it, then 1 held up the other •as high as my head, and let it fall to the ground ona ftone, which broke it all in pieces likewife ; now,faid I, mailer, that’s the way, and he beat me veryheartily, until I had to (bout out mercy and murder,all at once.8Tom. Why did you not leave him when he ufedyou fo badly ?Teag. Arra, dear (hoy, I could never think to leavehim while 1 could eat, he gave me fo many goodvictuals, and promifed to prefer me to be his ownbone pitker. But by fhaint Patrick, I had to runaway with my life or all was done, elfe l had loftray dear (hoiM and body too by him, and then Icame home much poorer than l went away. Thegreat big bitch dog, which was my mailer’s heftbeloved, put his head into a pitcher to lick out fomemilk, ami when it was in he could not get it out?and to I fave the pitcher, got the hatchet and cnt offthe dog’s head, and then l had to break the pitcherto get out the head ; by this I loft both the dog andthe pitcher. My mafler hearing.of this, fwore hewould cut the head off me, for the poor dog wasmade ufdefs, and could not fee to follow any body,for want of his eyes. And when 1 heard of this, Iran away with my own head, for if I had wanted it,I had loft my eyes too, then I could not have feenthe road to Pott Patrick, through Glen nap ; but,by fhaint Patrick, I came home alive in fpite of them.Tom. O rarely done, Pady, you behaved like a man ;but what is the reafon that you Irifh people fwearalways by fhaint Patrick ?Teag Arra, dear honey, he was the beft- fhaint inthe world, the father of all good people in the kingdom,he has a great kindnefs for an Iiifhman, when he hearsthem calling on his name - . .Totp. But, Pady, is fhaint Patrick yet alive ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, I don’t know whether hebe dead or alive, but it is a long time fince they kill’dhim; the people turn’d all heathens, but he would notchange his profeffion, and was going to run the countrywith it, and for taking the golpel away to England, fothe barbarous lories of Dublin cutted off his Jiead ; andhe fwimmsd over to England, and carried bis head inhis teeth.9* PART II.Tom TT OW did you get fafe out of Scotland ?I. £ rcag- By the law dear honey, wheu £game to Port-Patrick, and faw my own kingdom, Iknew I was fafe at home, but I waa clfean dead, andaimod drowned before I could get riding over thewater ; for I, with nine or ten paffengers more, lept ina little young boat, having but four men dwelling in alittle houfe, in the one end of it, which was all thackedwith deals, and after they had pulled up tfceir tetherftick, and laid her long halter over het mane, they pul¬led rp a long Iheet like three pair of blankets, to theriggen of the hoafe, and the wind blew in that,which made her gallop up one hill and down another,till 1 thought (he would have run to the world’sendTom. Well Pady, and where did you go when youcame to -Ireland again ?Teag. Arra, dear honey, and where did I go, butto my own dear coufio, who was now become very richby the death of the old buck his father; who diedbut a few weeks before I went over, and t^e parifhhad to bury him out of pity, it did not coft him afarthingTom. And what entertainment d’d you get there >Teag. O my dear (hoy, I was kindly ufed as ano¬ther gentleman, and would have (laid their long enough,but when a man is poor his friends think little of him rI told him 1 wais going to fee my brother Harry rHarry, (aid he, Harry is dead ; dead, faid I, and whokill’d him ? Why faid he, death : Allelieu, dear honey,and where did he kill him, faid I: in his bed, fayshe. Arra, dear honey, faid I, if he had been uponNewry mountains with hi§ brogues on, and his broad(word by his fide, alt the deaths in Ireland had notkill d hen : O that impudent fellow death, if he hadlet him alone till he died for want of butter mil!;and potatoes, l am fure he had lived all the days of hi*life.10Torn. In all your travels when abroad, did you ne¬ver fee none of your countrymen^ to inform you ofvhat had happened at home concerning your relations ?'Teag Arra, dear (hoy, I faw none but Tom Jack,one day in the ilreet: but when I came to him, it wasriot him but one juft like him.Torn. On what account did you go a travelling?Ttag. Why a decruiting fergeant lifted me to be acaptain, and after all advanced me no higher than afoldier it Si If, but only he called me his dear country-raan recruit: for 1 did not know what the regimentwas when I faw them, I thought they were all gentle¬man’s fans and coUegioncrs, when T faw a bore like abible upon their bellies; until I faw G. for KingGeorge upon it, and R. for God blefs him: ho, ho,laid 1, I lhan’t be long he;e.Tom. O then Pady you deferted from them ?Teag. That’s what I did, and run to the mountainslike a buck, and evrr Since when I fee any foldier*,I cloSe my eyes left they Should look and know me.,Tom And what exploits did you do when you wasa foldie,r !' Teag. Arra, dear honey, I kill’d a man.Tern. And how did ^:u do that ?Tea g-Arra, dear honey, when he dropt bis fword,I drew mine, and advanced boldly to him, and thenC'-tted off his foot.Tom, O then what a big fool was you ; for youought ftrft to have cut off his head.Teag. Arra, dear Shoy, his head was cutted off be¬fore 1 engaged him, elfe I had not done it.Tom O then Pady, you a&ed like a fool; but youare not fuch a big fool as many take you to be, youmight pafs for a philofopher.Teag. A Fululifer, my father was a fulufifer, be-fides he was a man under great authority by law, con¬demning the juft and clearing the guilty. Do youknow how they call the herfe’s mother.Tom, Why they call her a mare.11Teag. A marc, ar, very well minded, my xatneiwas a mai'e in Cork.Tom. And what riches was left you by the death o"your mother.Teag. A bad luck to her own barren belly, for fir-lived in great plenty, and died in great .poverty ;devoured up all or flic died, but two hens and apockful of potatoes, a peer eliatc for an Irith gentle¬man, in faith.Tom. And what did you make of the Bens and po-tatoes, did you fow them iTeag. Arva, dear fhey, 1 fowed them in my belly,and fold the hens to a cadger.-' Tom. What kufinefs did your mother follow after.Teag, Greatly in the merchant way,Tom. And what fort of goods did &e ceal in ?.Teag. Dear honey, fhe wen: through the cour.trvand fold fma!I f.fhcc, onions, and apples: boughthens and eggs, and then hatched them herfelf. 1 re¬member' of a long-necked cock file had, of an overfe?.brood, that flood in the midden, and picked ah. theliars cut of the north weft fo they were never fo thickthere fince.Tom. Now Pady, that’s a bull farpalTes all: but isthere acne of that cock’s offspring alive now ?Teag. Arra dear ihoy, I don’t think that there are,but it is a pity but they had, for they would fly withpeople above the fea, which would put the ufe,of {hipsoaf of fafhion, and nobody be drowned at all.Pom. Very well Pady, but in all your travels didyou ever get a wife ?Teag. Ay, that’s what I did, and a wicked Wife too :and my dear {hoy, I can’t tell whether (he is gone *o.Purgatory, or the parifli of Pig-trantrum ; foe. ftctold me {hp would certainly die the firft opportunityfhe could get, as this prefent evil world was notworth the waiting on, fo {he would go and fee whatgood things is in the world to come ; fo when thatold rover called the Fever, came raging over thewhole kingdom, (he went away and died out of fpite,'eaving me nothing but two motherleis children.Tom. O but Pady, you ought to have gone to adoftor, and got fotne pills and phyfic for her.Feag. By ihaint Patrick I had as good a pill of myown as any doctor in the kingdom could give her.Tom. O you fool, that is not what i mean ; youought to have, brought the doftor to feel her pulie, andlet blood of her if he thought it needful.Teag Yes, that’s what l did, for I ran to the doc¬tor whenever fhe died, and fought fomething for adead or dying woman ; the old foolilh devil was at hisdinner end began to aik me fome dirty queltions, whichI anfwered diitijxftly.Tom And what did he a/k. Pady ?Teag. Why, he afked me, Hosv my wife go tollool ? to which I anfwered, the fame way that otherpeople go to a chair ; no, faid he, that’s not what Imean, how dees ihe purge? Arra, Mr. Dodfor, faid I,all the fire in Purgatory wont purge her clean •, for (hehas both a cold and (linking breath. Sir, faid he, thatis not what 1 a(k >ou ; whether does flic fhit thick orthin ? Arra, Mr Do ft or, faid I, it is fometimes fothick and hard, that you may take it in your hand,and cut it like a piece of cheefe or pudding, and atother times you might drink it,'or fup it withafpoon.At this he Hew into a moll terrible rage, and kickedme down (lairs, and would give me nothing to her, butcalled me a dirty vagabond for (peaking of (hit beforev ladies.Tom. And in what good order did you bury your' wife when (he died ?Teag. O my dear fhoy, (he was buried in all man¬ner of pomp, pride, and fpkndpur; a fine coffin withcords iu it, and within the coffin along with herfelr,(he got a pair of new brogues, a penny candle, It goodi aid headed old hammer, with an Irilh fix-penny pieceito pay her paflage at the gate, and what more could fficlook (or.13•| * \ z'" /Tom. I really think you prave her enough along with[jief, but you ought to have cried for her, if it was norjnore but to be in the falhioti.Teag. And why fhould I cry without forrow ? whenare hired two criets to ct) all the way before her toijteep in the fafhion.Tom. A nd what do they cry before a dead woman ?1 Teag. Why they cry the common cry or funeral la¬ment that is ufed in our Jrifh country.1 Tom And what manner of cry is that, Pady ?Teag Dear Tom, if you don t know. I’ll tell you,ibhen any dies, there is a number of criers goes before,•faying Luff, fuff fou, alltlieu dear honey, what ailetb,-.bee to die ! it was not for want of good butter-milkl »d potatoes.PART. III.ofom. TXT ELL, Pady, and what did you do whenV V your wife died ?Teag. Dear honey, what would I do : do you think«• was fuch a big fool as to die too, I am fure, if I had*' would not have got fair play, when I am not fo oldJ-ft as my father was when he diedTom. No, Pady, it is-not that I mean, was youlorry, or did jou weep for her!Teag Weep for her ! by fhaint Patrick I would notiireep nor yet be forry, fuppofe my own mother, and'111 the women in Ireland had died feven years before IJfas born.| Tom. What did you do with your children when flietj ied ?Teag Do you imagine I was fuch a big fool asnury my children alive alucgwith a dead woman Arra,near honey we always commonly give nothing alongiirdth a dead peifon, but an old fliirt, a winding flieet, *i: big hammer, with a long candle, and an Irifh fllverspree-penny piece ?jj Tom Dear Pady, and what do they make of allwefe things.ft.Teag. Then, Tom, Cnee you are fo inquifitlve, ycmuft go afo the prieft.Tom, What did you make of your children then, PadTeag. And what Ciould l make of them, do yc|imagine that I (hould give them into the hands «the butchers, as they had been a parcel of young hogs*by fhaint Patrick, I had more unnaturality io mithan put them in an hofpital, as others do.Tom. No, I fuppofc you would leave them wityour friends ?Teag. Ay, ay, a poor man's friends is fometimes wdrthan a profeft enemy : the bell friend I ever had in t!!world, was my own pocket while my money laded : bt1 left two babes between the prieft’s door and the pari tchurch, becaufe 1 thought it was a place of mercy, at.ijthen fet out for England in queft of another fortune |Tom- And did you not take good night with yoM'.friends ere' you came away.Teag. Arra. dear honey, I had no friends in tl 1world but an lrifh half crown, and I would have bet |ivery forty to have parted with fuch a dear pocket coriipanion, at fuch a time.Tom. I fancy, Pady, you’ve come off with whthey call a moon-lhine flitring.Teag. You lie like a thief now, for I did not fee fmoon, ner liars, all the night then : for I fet out frekCork, at the dawn of night, and I had travelled tweajhmiles all but twelve, before gloaming-in the morniraiTom And where did you go to take (hipping ? }Teag. Arra, dear honey, I came to a country villa [icalled iDublin as big a city as any market town in tiEngland, where I got myfelf on board of a little you:boat, with a parcel of fello'A, and a long leather bsI fuppofed them to be tinkers, until ! alked whthey carried in that leather-fack; they told mewas the Englilh mail they were going over witthen faid 1, is the milns fo fcant in England, tl ithey muft fend over their corn to Ireland to grindthe comical cunning fellows perfuaded me it was13i then I went down to a little houfe below the water,.t hard by the rigg-back cf the boat, and laid me downij on their leather-fack where I flept myfelf almoft toij death with hunger. And deal Tom, to tell you plainly,i when I awaked I did not know where 1 was, buii thought I was dead and buried, for l found nothing: all around me but wooden walls and limber above,j Tom. And how did you.come to yourfelf to know| where you tvas-at lad ?Teag. By the law dear Ihoy, I feratched my heady in a hundred parts, and then fet me down to think up-y on it, fo I minded it was my wife that was dead,n and not me, and that 1 was alive in the young poft-I boat, with the fellows that carries over the Engliih -k meal from the Irilh railns.j Tom. O then Pady, 1 was fare you was glad whenyou found yourfelt alive ?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I was very fure I was alive,|| but 1 did not think to live long, fo I thought it was|j better for me to fteal and be bang’d than to live all myli days, arid die direflly with hunger at laft.Tom. What, had you no meat nor money along with|| you ?Teag. Arra dear fhoy, I gave all my money to thel:captain of the houfe, or goodman of the fhip, to carryflme into the fea, or over to England, and vyher. I wasjdike to eat my old brogues for want of vi&uals, I drewnmy hanger and cut the lock of their leather fack, think-ning to get a lick of their meal: but alltlieu, dear fhoy,jil found nothing, meal nor feeds, but a parcel of papers(land letters, a poor morfel indeed for a hungry man.Tom. O then Pady you laid down your honefty forp nothingi '1 eag. Ay, ay, 1 was a great thief, but got nothing;to deal. 6 6I Tom And how did you come to get viftuals at laft ?Teag. AUelieu, dear honey, the thoughts of meatt tnd drink, death and life, and every thing elfe was out.»f mind, 1 had not a thought but one.16#Tom. And what was that, Pady ?Teag. To go down among the fifliea and become a swhale } then I would have lived at eafe all my days,having nothing to do but to drink fait water, and eatcaller oyfters.Tom What Pady. was you like to be drown d again ? |Teag. Ay, ay. drown’d, as cleanly drown’d as a fifh, ffor the fea blew very loud, and the wind ran fo Ingh, Jr that we were all caft away fafe on rtiore, and not one ofllus drown’d at all.Tom Where did you go when you came on fliore ?| fTeag. A rra, dear honey, I was not able to go anyuwhere, you might call a knot on my belly, I was foihollow in my middle, fo I went into a gentleman’gfihoufe and told him the bad fortune I had of beingdrown’d between Ireland and the foot of his garden : i'where we came all fafe afhore. But all the comfort Igot from him was a word of truth.Tom. And what was that, Pady ? . |Teag. Why he told me, if l had been a good boy at}:home, I needed tiot to have gone fo far to pufh rayft>fortune with an empty pocket j to which I anfwered,and what magnifies that, as long as I am a good work'ttnjan at no trade at all.Tom. L fnppofe, Pady, the gentleman would mak«i:you dine with hint ?Teag. I really thought I was, when I faw thenhroafting and fkinning fa many black chickens whit!twas nothing but a few dead crows they were going t<eat; ho, ho, faid I, them is but dry meat at the belt, of.all the fowls that flee, commend me to the wing of abut all that came to my (hare was u piece of boilVioxherring and a roafted potatoe, that was the firfl bit abre^d i -ever eat in iingland.Tom Well Pady, what bufinefsdid you follow aftein England when you was fa poor ?Teag. What fir, do you imagine I was poor whei f- i came over on. fuch an honourable occafion aslilt, and bring myfelf to no preferment at all Asi Was an able bodied man in the face, I thought to bemade a brigadeer, a grandedeer, or a fuzeleer, or eveniione of them blue gowns that holds the fiery (lick to.the bung hole of the big cannons, when they let themhoff, to fright away the French ; i was as Cure as no manalive ere I came from Cork, the leaft preferment I couldijget, was to be riding mailer to a regiment of marines,■sor one of the black horfe itfelf.' 1 om Well Pady, you feem to be a "very cleverlir-ikle man, to be all in one body, what height are you ?feagi. Arra, dear fhoy, l am five feet nothing, all(but one inch.Tom. And where in England was it you lifted ?Teag. Arra, dear fhoy, I was going through thatilittle country village, the famous city of Chefter, thei ftreets was very fore by reafon of the hardnefi of{«ny feet, aud lamenefs of my brogues, fo I went but(Very flowly acrofs the ftreets, from port to port is ajwetty long way, but I being weary thought nothingbf it, then the people came all crowding to me as 1 had{peen a world’s wonder, or the wandering Jew : For thegain blew in my face, and the wind wetted all my belly,ifvhicb caufed me to turn the back fide of my coat be-i'0re, and my buttons behind, which was a good Me-|i;uard to my body, and the ftarvation of my nakedEck, as I had not a good fliirt.Tom. I am furc then, Pady, they would take voura fool >! No, no, fir, they admired me for my wifdom,sr I always turned my buttons before, when the windJ lew on behind, but I wonder’d how the people knewiy name and where I came from ; for every one toldaother, that was Pady from Cork : I fuppofe theynew my face, by feeing my name in the Newfpapers.lorn. Well, Pady, what bufinefs did you follow ini hefter f -1 To be fure I was not idle, working at no-ing at all, till a decruiting fergeant came to townith two or three fellows along with him, one beat-ing on a fiddle, and another playing on a drum, tof-fing their airs thro* the ftreets* as if they were goingto be married I faw them courting none but youngmen : fo to bring myfelf to no preferment at all, I lift,ed for a foldi?r, for I was too high for a grandedeer.Tom. And what lifting money did you get, PadyTeag. Arra, dear joy, I got five thirteens and apair of Engliih brogues ; the guinea and the reft ofthe gold was fent to London, to the king my maf-ter, to buy me new ftiirts, a cockade, and a commontreafing for my hat, they made me fwear the mali-,cious oath of devilrie againft the King, the colours,and my captain, telling me if ever I defert, and notrun away, that I (hould be fhot, and then whipt todeath through the regiment.Tom. No Pady. it is firft whipt and then (hot youmean ?Feag. Arra dear fttoy, it is all one thing at laft,.but it is beft to be fhot and then whipt, the clcvereft.way to die I’ll warrant you.Tom. How much pay did you get, Pady ?Teag. Do you know the little tall fat fergeant that ifeed me to be a foldier ?Tom. And how ftiould I know them I never faw,.you foolTeag. Dear fhoy, you may know him whether youfee him or not for his face is all bor’d in big holes withthe fmall-pox, his nofe is the colour of a lobfter-tcf*and his chin like a well walheu pota^oe : lie’s the big-geft rogue in our kingdom, you’ll know him when he >cheats you, and the wide world; and another mark, khe dights his mouth before he drinks, and blows his tnofe before he takes fnuff; the rogite height me fix- tpence a day, kill or no kill; and when 1 laid Sunday'and Saturday both together, and all the days in one* .day, I can’t make a penny above five-pence of it. ITom Vou Ihould have kept an account, and alk'cfyour arrears once a month.■Teag That’s what I did, but he reads a partert19j)fler cut of fits prayer book, wherein all our nameslie written; fo much for a ftop-hold to my gun, to[jicklers, to a pair of comical harn-hofe ; with leatherliittons from top to toe; and worft of all, he wouldlitve no lefs than a penny a-week to a doftor; arra,Sid I, I never had a fore finger, nor yet a lick toe, all[fe days of my life, then what have 1 to do with the"jjftor, or the dofior to do with me.Tom. And did he make you pay all thefe things ?Teag. Ay, ay, pay and better pay; he took mer fore his captain, who made me pay all was in hijlook. Arra, mafter captain, faid l,you are a comicalJrt of a fellow now, you might as well make me pay1 r ray coffin before I be dead, as to pay for a dodlor^fore I be fick ; to which he anfwered in a paffion,Hra, faid he, I have ften many a better man buried5 ithout a coffin, fir, faid I, then I’ll have a coffin, die*.nen l will, if there be as much wood in all the world,i i ffiall not be buried at all. Then he call d for thelygeant, faying, you Sir, go and buy that man’s coffin,d put it in the ftore till he die, and Hop fix-pence a*rek off his pay for it : No, no, fir, faid 1, I’ll rathere without a coffin ; and feck one when I’m dead ;tif you be for clipping another fix-pence off my pooriy, keep it all to yourfelf, and I’ll fwear all your oaths(agreement we had back agaiu, and then feck foldiersacre y®u will.]Tom. O then Pady how did you end the matter !TTeag. Arra, dear ffioy, by the nights of ffiaint Pa-tick and help of my brogues, I both ended it, andilnded it, for the next night, before that, I gave.them•n-bail for my fidelity, and went about the country aKtune-teller, dumb and deaf as I was not.wFom. How old was you Pady, when you was a fobfir la ft ?ipFeag. Arra, dear honey, I was three dozen all butSi, and it is only two years fince, fo I want only four'6 of three dozen yet, and when I live fix dozen'«j’e, I’ll, be older than I am, I’ll warrand you.iTom. O but Padv, by y6ur account, you are tbrefdozen of years old alreadyTeag. O what for a big fool are yon now Tom, whepyou count the years 1 lay fick ; whicTi time I count notime at all.Tom.thou ?A NEW CATECHISM, &c.OF all the opinions proftfled in religion tel!me now, Pady, of what profcffijn artPady. Arra, dear (hoy, my religion was too weightya matter to carryout of my own country: I was afraidthat you Englirti Prefbyterians fhould pluck it awayfrom me.Tom. What, Pady, was your religion fuch a loadthat you could not carry it along with you?Pady Yes, that it was, but 1 carried it always abouwith me when at home, my fweet crofs upon my dea:breatt, bound to my dear button hole.Tom. And what manner of wor/hipdid you performby that ?Pady. Why I adored the crofs, the pope, and thprieft, curfed Oliver as black as a cr6w, and fwears my1felf a cut throat againft all Proteftants and church cEnglandmen.Tom And what is the matter but you would bechurch of Englandman, or a Scotch Prelbyterian yourfelf, Pady 'Pady. Becaufe it is unnatural for an Irilhman ; hihad lhaint Patrick been a Prefbyterian, I had been thi<fame.Tom. And for what reafon would you be a Prefbj;terian then, Pady ?Pady. Becaufe they have liberty to eat flefh in lenand every thing that’s fit for the bellyTom. What, Pady, are you fuch a bvfr of flelh tyou would change your proftffion for it ?Pady O yes, that’s what 1 would, I love fieall kinds, Ihecp’s beef, fwine’s mutton, hare’s fleJ:21li hen’s venifon ; but our religion is one of the bun*eft in all the world, ah ! but it makes my teeth toep, and my belly to water, when I fee the Scotchrfbyterians, and Englifii churchmen, in time of lent,ding upon bulls baftards, and (heep’s young chil»ITom Why Pady, do you fay the bull is a fornica-,r, and gets baftards ?'] Pady Arra dear fltoy, I never faw the cow and herdilband, all the days of my life, nor before I was born,linng to the church to be married, and what then canhs fons and daughters be but baftards ?~ Tom. What reward will you get when you are. dead,jjr punilhing your belly fo while you are alive ?Pady By lhaint Patrick I’ll live like a king whenm dead, for I will neither pay for meat nor drink.Tom. What Pady, do you think that you are toKjme alrve again when you are dead ?i Pady. O yes, we that are true Roman CatholicksMill live a long time after we are dead : when we diel,i love with th& Prielts, asd the good people of ourorofeflion. . .[' Tom. And what aflurance can your prieft give you! f that ?1 Pady. Ana, dear, (hoy, our prieft is a great Ihaint, ajrood {haul, who can repeat a pater-nofter, and Avetlaria, which will fright the very horned devilhimfelf,imd make him run for it, until he be like to fall andVireak his neck.fom. And what does he give you when you are dy-jing that makes you come ahve again ?Pady Why he writes a letter upon cur tongues, feaUIri with a wafer, gives us a facrament in our mouth,I’with a pardon, and ditection in our right hand, who tobrail for at the ports of Purgatory.Tom. And what money deftgn you to give thenprieft for your pardon?\\ Pady. Dear Ihoy, 1 wifh I had ftrft the moneyTi* would take' for it, 1 would rather drink it my-mV22felf, and then give him both my bill and my hoikword payable in the other worldTom. And how then are yon to get a paffage to tr fother world, or who is to carry you there?Pady. O my dear (hoy, Tom, you know nothing tthe matter ; for, when 1 die, they will bury my bodiflelh, blood, dirt, and bones, only my fkin will be blow*up full of wind and fpirit, my dear Ihoul 1 mean ; anthen I will be blown over to the other world, othe wings of the wind; and after that I’ll never be kill’cbang’d, nor drown’d, nor yet die in my bed, for wheany hits me a blow, my new body will play buff upcit like a bladder.Tom. But what way wiH'you go to the new workor where is it !Pady. Arra, dear Ihoy, the pried knows where it itbut I do not, but the Pope of Rome keeps the outeport, flraint Patrick the inner-port, and gives us a dirertion of the way to fhaint Patrick’s palace, which Handon the head of the Stalian loch, where I’ll have nmore to do but chap at the gate.Tom. What is the need for chapping at the gate, iit not always open ?Pady. Dear fhoy, you know little about it, fothere is none can enter it but red hot Irifhmen, fowhen l call, Allelieu, dear honey, rtiaint Patrick countenance your own dear countryman if you will, thetthe gates will be opened direftly for me, for he knowand loves an Irilhman’s voice, as he loves his owjheart.Tom. And what entertainment will you get whetyou are in.Pady. O my dear, we are all kept there until sgeneral review, which is commonly once in theweek: And then we are drawn up like as manyyoung recruits, and all the 'vackguard fcoundrebIs pickt out of the ranks, aqne half of them isfent away to the Elyfian fields, to curry the weedsfrom among the potatoes, the other half of them to23jrer Sticks, to catch Sfhes for Hiaint Patrick’*and them that is owing the priefts any money isthe black-hole, and then given to'the hands ofl black bitch of a devil which is keeped for aIan, who whips them up asd down the fmokyIsn every morning for fix months..n. And where does your good people go whenbre feparated from the bad.i y. And where would you have them to go, butjhaiut Patrick’s palace, and then they may go*the back ftairs into the garden of Eden, nowJ Paradife.,n Well Pady, are you to do as much juftice toI eftant as a Papift ?y. O my dear Ihoy, the moft juftice we are com-d to do a Proteftant, is to whip and tormentintil they confeCs themfelves in the Rorailh Faith,Aen cut their throats, that they may die be¬ll What bufinefs do you follow after at prefent ?!y. Arra, dear (hoy, I am a mountain failor, andpplication is as follows :OY’S HUMBLE PETITION, OR SUPPLICATION,DOD Chriftian people behold me a man ! who hascorn’d through a world of wonders, a bell full ofliips, dangers by fea, and dangers by land, and yetalive, you may fee my hand crooked like a fowl’sind that is no wonder at all confidering my fuffer-nd forrows: Oh ! oh ! oh ‘ good people, [ was an my time who had plenty of the gold, plenty of.iver, plenty of the clothes, plenty of the butter,:er, beef, and bilket. And now, now I have no-: being taken by the Turks and relieved by thefrds, lay fixty fix days at the liege of Gibralter,t nothing to eat but fea wreck and raw muffel* ;Tea for our fafety, call upon the Barbarian coaft,jj- the woful wicked Algerines, where we were taken'and tied, with tugs and ladders, horfe locks and ochains; then cut audcuflrate yard audtefticie quitea^if you will not believe, put in your hand and feel fievery female’s made fmooth by the flieer bone, wherrthing is to be feen but what is natural Then made:efcape to the defart wild wildernefs of Arabia : witwe lived among the wild Affes, upon wind fand, andlefs ling. Afterwards put to fea in the hull of anhoufe, where we were toffed about and below the clobeing driven through thickets and grovesby fierce, co;calm, and contrary winds; at laft was cad upon Salifbplains, whereour veffelwas dafhed topiecesagainftatbage dock. And now my humble petition to yot gChriftian people, is, for one hundred of your beef,hundred of your butter, anotherof your cheefe, a calyour bifcuit, a tun of your beer, a keg of your rum,'va pipe of your wine, a lump of your gold, a piece of j;Jilver, a few of your halfpence or farthings, a waughyour butter-milk, a pair of your old breeches, ftockior fhoes, even a chaw of Tobacco for charity's fak<A CREED FOR ROMISH BELIEVERS.I BELIEVE the Pope of Rome to be the right!and true fucceffor of Peter the Apodle, and tha'ihas a power above the king of the world, being fpirrand temporal; endowed with a communication fromyond the grave and c-n bring up any* i e. or a parted fhoul *he pleafes, even as the wolidevil in its oi Endour brought up Samuel to SauLftead. the fame power he can, allilled by thll|chantments of old Manaffeh, a kin|;iJfrael. I believe alfo iu the llomilh Priefts,that theBvery c’vilchafte gentlemen, keep no wives of their «jbut partake a little of other men’s when in fecret cofjfion> I acknowledge the woi fhipping of images, anflicks of Ihaints departed to be vtj-y ju!t; but if they |jand not help us, O they are but a parcel of ungratwretches.FINIS,J. Neilfon, printer.