sC R H I S TO N T H EC R O SSUFFERING for SINNERS:OR, THESinners Redemption, Sanctification,and Exaltation, by the Death andbitter Paffion of our Lord and Sa¬viour JESUS CHRIST.Matth. Hi. 16, 17.And JefuSy when he was baptized, went up Jlraight-way out of the water: and lo, the heavens wereopened unto him, and he Jaw the Spirit of Goddefcending like a dove, and lighting upon him.And lo, a voice from heaven, faying. This is mjbeloved Son, in whom I am well pleafed.By the Rev. Mr. SAMUEL SMITHSON,Minifter of the Gofpel.GLASGOW:Printed and Sold by J. & M. ROBERTSON-MDCCLXXXYI.. ( ^ OF SCCTlAhD r)( 2 )CHRIST on the CROSS fufferingfor Sinners.AS E R M O N,On John iii, 14, 15.And as Motes lifted up the Serpent in the 'wil^ernefsfo mujl the Son of Man be lifted up, that -whofo-ever beiieveth in him fhould not perijh but haveeverlajling life.THESE merciful words of our blelTed Lordand Saviour, might ravifh our fouls withraptures of joy, to think in what a mod miferableand wretched condition we were wallowing in byreafon of fin and wicked abominations, that wewere dropping into hell and eternal deftru£Hon;for the gates of the bottomlefs lake (land open, andis like a devouring fepulchre to receive us; butblefled be the mod glorious name of the Lord ofHods, who has fent us, out of his free grace andlove, both a conqueror and comforter, to viit,Jefus Chrid the fan&ifier of our hearts, and thefalvatton of our fouls.Therefore, dear friends and Chridians, let uswith fear and reverence give attention to the facredword of God, in which we diall find the birth ofour Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrid, which is verymean and poor, and -the place too bad to entertainthe Lamb of God, which takes away the fins ofChrijl on the Crofsy &c. 3the world, Luke ii. ir, 12. Chrift being thusborn, and laid in a manger amongft oxen and aiTes,becaufe there was no room in the inn, it might, inthe firft place, perfuade us to be humble, and alfobend our proud ftubbornJiearts to ttfe will and fer-vice of God: for Chrift our blefied Saviour thoughtit no fcorn or difgrace to lie in a manger, to eatthe bread and drink the water of affliction, to bebuffeted, fpitted at, reviled, crowned with thorns,and crucified on the crofs, to fired his preciousblood for the redeeming of our loft fouls ; thenfhall we be made partakers of the covenant ofgrace, according to the faying of the prophet, Ezek.i.6. “ Neverthelefs I will remember my covenantmade with thee in the days of thy yooth, and I willconfirm to thee an everlafting covenant.” Shallwe then, for all tHefe fpecial mercies and favoursfrom our infinitely loving God, ftill fport at hisglory, his goodnefs, and majefty, and walk likechildren of difobedience ? Shall we pluck Chriftagain from the throne to crucify him ? Shall wekick at his divine Eflence, and requite him withingratitude ? Shall we deny God> according to thewords of the prophet David, The joalhatb faid inhis hearty There is no God? No, let us be afraidto offend God, much more to deny him; for it isa fearful teftimony of truth from the mouth of ourbleffed Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift, That who-foever denieth me before men, him 'will I alfo denybefore my Father •which is in heaven-, Matth. x. 13.Therefore, confider with fear and reverence, thelove of God, the goodnefs of God, the mercies ofGod, and the juilice of God : For let none be deceived, God -will not be mocked; tho’you daily liketo fly with your own pleafures and vanities of theworld, without repentance you wiil fuller theflames of pumfhment: From which eternal deftruc-tion, let it be the faithful defire and prayers of allpeople4 Chrijl on the Crofspeople to fay, Good Lord deliver us. Let u«, withdevotion and piety, make ufe of the fcripture, forhelp and nourifhment of our fouls, in which wefhall find the life of our Saviour Jefus Chrift to bemod pure and holy, we {hall find him lowly, meek,humble, courteous, wife, prudent, profitable, chari¬table, and indeed with a million more of fpecialgraces and virtues; in which he doth ftrengthenthe weak, comfort the afflicted, heal the lame, curethe blind, make the dumb to fpeak, the deaf tohear, and the dead to walk, and the infernal devilsto tremble. Then, fince it is fo that Chrifi: is ourSaviour, Redeemer, and Comforter, how oughtwe to glorify the great God of heaven, in fendinghis only begotten Son to fuffer for fin, who knewno fin, and to bear the curfe of ihe crofs for ouroffences? O what fatisfattion (hall we render to theLord of lords, and King of kings ! Nothing like a. new heart, and a new fpirit, renewed by the new-nefs of life, that we may receive the new birth,without which it is impoffible to fee God. 1 hen,as new born babes do third; for the milk to nouriflithem, fo will our fouls long and third after thewaters of righteoufnefs, to tafte of the tree of life,and to have our names recorded in the book ofGod, for his chofen ones, yea, his beloved ones,according to the firft epifile of Paul to the Theffa-lonians, i. 4. Knowing brethren, beloved, your elec¬tion of God. O how happy is that foul that islinked to God, and united'to the bleffed unity ofGod the Father, God the Son, and God the HolyGhoft, In which divine body, and glorious Ma~jefty, the faints and martyrs, prophets, priefts,apoftles, and angels have joint communion, wherethe omnipotent God encompaffes the royal campof heaven, where all are made heirs and co-heirswith Chrift, triumphing over death, helldevil, reigning and ruling in majefty, and theupon thehigheftfujfering for Sinners, 5higheft thrones of felicity, joy, and glory, whichis the moft infinite andunfpeakable,wearingcrownsof gold, bedeckt with princely diamonds, to illuf-trate their hapninefs with more glory.O my beloved friend, heaven itfelf is lovely,beautiful, rich, full of pleafure, joy and felicity;it is a manfion of virtue, a paradife of pleafure,the kingdom of God and the crown of glory. Thenfince Chrift was born to redeem us, let us run thatwe may obtain, let us lay hold on Chrift by faith,and follow the fteps of the apoftles, and follow thedue and true worfhip of God ; but let us not followevery whimfical brain which difturbs both thechurch and the ftate. One fays, Here is Chrift ianother fays, Lo there is Chrijl; but believe themnot, but fearch the feriptures, and there you lhallfind where our blefl'ed Lord arid Saviour JefusChrift is, fitting at the right hand of God in powerand glory.Alfo take our blefled Saviour’s words for a tefti-mony of this truth. Read Math. xxiv. quite thro’,which foretelleth of falfe Chrifts and falfe pro¬phets : And fo in the epiftle of Jude, you fhall findthat the prophefies of old are now come to pafs;for how many new Chrifts and new prophets, andftrange confufed opinions have we had in this lat¬ter age ? And fure enough there is but one God,one faith, one baptifm, and one entire command¬ment, which is according to the words of our blef-fed Redeemer, Matth. xxii. 27. Arid Jefus /aid untothem, Thou Jhalt love the Lord thy God with alt thyfoul, with alt thy heart, and with all thy mind. Iknow no purer religion than this is, firft tolove Godabove all, and your neighbour as yourfelf, and ac¬cording to the words of our bleffed Lord and Sa¬viour Jefus Chrift, for every one to do unto ano¬ther,6 Chr ’ijl on the Crofsther, as he would they (hould do unto him. But :alas! our hearts are frail and wicked, full of deceit,nay there are many of them that pretend and pro-fefs the moft purity, love, godlinefs, and true reli¬gion, that do, and will the fooneft of all betray youwith a Judas kifs, fpeak you fair to the face, andcut your throat. Upon which crew of infidels, ourSaviour Chrift cries out. Wo unto you Scribes andPhari/ees, hypocrites, becaufc ye /but up the kingdomof heaven before men, for you your/elves go not in,neither fuffer ye them that -would enter to come in.JVo unto you Scribes and Pharifees, hypocrites, for yedevour widows* hsufes, even under a colour of longprayers, wherefore ye fhall receive the greater dam¬nation, Matth. xxiit. 13, 14. Then fince it is fo,that hypocrites are fo much hated of God, let usendeavour to love one another, with an entire af¬fection.In the firltplace. Let our fouls, hearts, and mindsbe to love God, and to fear God, as he is the greatJudge both of heaven and earth.In the fecond place. Let us love ourfelves, andfeck after Chriftfor the faving of our fouls.In the third place. Let us relieve the houfholdof faith, and love our neighbour as ourfelves, thatit mav be faid of us as it is faid of faithlul Abra¬ham, that he walked with God. Let us leave offpride and envy, covetoufnefs and drunkennefs,fwearing and whoredom, and let our daily practicebe in the divine worfliip of God, with pure devo¬tion and unfeigned piety ir Let us relieve the poorwithout grudging, for charity is the brightefl g-loryboth in heaven and earth. The apoftle Paul am¬plifies of the three fupernatural graces, to wit,faith, hope, and charity, 1 Cor. xri. 13.Godfuffenng for Sinners. jFirft, God the omnipotent glory, and divine Ma-jefty, is charity, for he has fent his only begottenSon to fufFer for our fins, and to redeem our droop¬ing fouls that lay wallowing in blood,' and beingdead in fin and treipafles, that by laying hold onChrift, we have free accefs to the tribunal feat ofgrace, to cry, Abba., Father. Secondly, Chrilt‘ Jefus our blelfed Redeemer is charity, for bethoughtit no flume nor fcorn, being equal to God, exaltedabove the facred quire of angels, to become man,and undergo the perfecution of the tyrannical Jews,at laft to fuffer his precious blood to be ihed, and hisflefli nailed to the crofs, and all this to lave his peo¬ple from the punifnment of eternal death. Third¬ly, the Holy Gholt is charity, for T/hofoever haththe faith of Chrift, hath the Holy Ghoft to be hisComforter. They need not fear that are Itedfaft infaith, what man can do to them, for man can de-ftroy the body only; but fear God, who can call in¬to hell both foul and body : And our Saviour faith,Whofoevcr is brought before a ma.gijlra.te for the tef-timony of the truth, needs not fear what to fpeak,for the Holy Gkojt will teach them, Mark xiii. fromver. 9, to 14.Gentle reader, you (hall find both the joys andSforrows the faints do endure *, but, fays our blelledLord and Saviour, Jefus Chrift, He that endurethto the end fhall be fived.Then feeing it is fo, that God is the God of love,and Chrift the Son of glory, let me exhort you allin the name of our blefled Redeemer, not to wor-fliip any other Gods but him, neither in heavennor in earth ; and let not the riches of the worldfteal away your hearts to adore money as a god ;nor let the vain pomps and pleafures of the worldbewitch your hearts to worfliip them as gods; butlet8 Chrijl on the Crofs, &c.let us worfliip the great God of heaven with fear,love, and reverence: Let us pray devoutly, andpraife his name continually; let us walk in his lawsand ordinances, that wc may have his eternal loveand bleffing.Let our meditation be upon divinity, that our re¬ward may be in heaven, that when this earthly ta¬bernacle of ours {hall be diflblved, we may be re¬ceived into the kingdom of glory. Let the door ofour hearts and fouls (land open, that when our Sa¬viour Jefus knocks, he may be received with a joy¬ful welcome: For which fulnefs of goodnefs andglory, let it be the defire of finners earneftly to en¬treat our blefied Lord and Saviour to draw us withthe cables of his love to himfelf, and place us inthe bottom of his love, -where ive Jhall be mademore than conquerors thro' him that loved us, Johnxvi. 33. The/e things have Ifpoken unto you, that inme ye might have peace : In the -world ye Jhall havetribulation, but be of good cheer, 1 have overcomethe world. “ Therefore doth the Father love me,“ becaufe that I lay down my life to take it up a-“ gain. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it“ down and have power to take it up again. This“ commandment have I received of my Father,”John x. 17, 18.The grace of God the Father, the love of Godthe Son, the fweet and comfortable fellowfliip ofGod the Holy Ghoft, be with us now and for evermore. Amen.FINIS.