THESURPRISING ADVENTURESAND SUFFERINGS[•; ok[■ FREDERICKI Baron Trenck»GIVING AN ACCOUNTjf HIS BEING CONFINED IN A DUNGEON, WITHi | CHAINS OF 68 POUNDS WEIGHT; ANDAFTERWARDS gullotined inFRANCE, IN l^HE TIME OFTHE REVOLUTION, 1796.KILMARNOCK:]| PRIKTED BY H. OKA.WFORD, BOOKSELLEn.IS 29.^flONALOF SCOTLAND^)!r> .-4 JTHELIFE AND ADVENTURESOFFrederick Baron Trench,mHutto itU. ’Hr■ 'KiisbI was born in the year 1726, at Koenigsber tPrussia. My father, descended from an ancie:f rtniiy, was general of cavalry. He died in 174; fter having received eighteen wounds in the s*:vice of Prussia.the President of the Supreme Court of Koenigri erg ; one of her brothers was Minister of Stat;SVflib,Il: -and two others, generals of infantry. After rri ither’s death, she married Count Loftang ,1 deutenant CoJonsl of the regiment of Cuirassieiof Kiow. I had two brothers and a sister. Oo 'cf my brothers remained wirh my mother, tbother was Cornet in the regiment of Kiow; am jny sister married the only son of old GenenWaldow, and settled in Brandenburgh.My father sent me at the age of thirteen to thuniversity of Koenigsberg, where I made a rapiiprogress in my education. At the end of 1740i had a dispute with a gentleman named Wallen«id, who boarded in the same house. He wamuch taller and stronger than me ; and despisiaimy weakness, thought proper to strike medemanded satisfaction, which he refusing co*tetnptuously, I took a second, and attacked hinin the open street. We fought; and I had th<good fortuna to wound him in the fund and armPf(j®# *# # *- i 'IVi'Ki Tl:$his affair was much talked of; and Dr. Kow-i iwski, our professor, making a complaint to thediversity, I was sentenced to three hours con¬venient; but M. Warschaw, my grandfather,: eased with my spirit, took me out of the house,d placed me as a boarder with Professor Chris-;na. There, for the first time, I began to en-!ir entire liberty.i^Three days after, a professed bully forced mea manner to fight. 1 wounded him in the hip.iiThese successes so puffed me up, that I ap-1 Hated in public with a sword of enormous length,s d all the appendages of a prize fighter.5 I should certainly have become a duellist, ifgoodness of my heart, and my misfortunes,d not soon after brought me to reason. Atnight had scarcely elapsed from my last quar-before I had another with one of my friends,ieutenant cf the garrison, whom I insulted,e fought, and I wounded hum in two places.Duelling among the students was not punishedthis period. It was looked upon as an honoursend a challenge.In November 1742, ISaron Loftuui, the King’sdjutant General, a relation of my mother, wasnt by his Majesty to Koenigsberg. He. dinedmy grandfather’s, chatted a good deal withand after hating sounded me by a variety cfijiestions, asked me if I should not be temptediji i* serve my country as my ancestors had always>pne; adding, that in the army I should findIore convenient opportunities of giving challen-js than at the university. I accepted this pro-asal without hesitation ; and a few days after^t off for Potzdam.I was presented to ffie King, to whom I wknown since the year 1746, as one of the beischolars in the university. He was much pleasewith the pertinence of my answers; my statunfor I was tall; and my manly assurance. I obtained permission to enter into the Life Guardsin quality of cadet, with promises of speedy promotion.The Life Guards were at that time the patten 'and school of ail the Prussian Cavalry. Theconsisted only of one squadron of men chose!from the whole army. L'heir uniform wasthemos;brilliant in Europe; the dress and accoutrement]of an officer costing two thousand crowns. Tincuirass, which was covered with silver, its appendages and the horses’ furniture, amounted alone to seven hundred.This squadron consisted only of six officers:and an hundred and forty-four men ; but we haealways fifty or sixty supernumeraries, and as manspare horses; for the King took all the handsomemen he met with into his guards. The officerwere the best in the army. The king instructecthem himself, and afterwards ordered themdrill the rest of the Cavalry.The duty of no other soldier in the world is schard as was that of a Life Guardsman. At thetime I was in this service, I had not eight hoursrest in eight days. The exercise used to beginat four o’clock in the morning, when we tiied alllthe new evolutions the King was desirous of in¬troducing. We leaped ditches, three, four, five,,and six feet wide, and even mote, till somebodyor other broke his neck. Sometimes, in a morn¬ing’* exercise, we had several urea aud horsesI iiired or wounded. The horses were kept in the: ling’s stables ; and he who could not dress, armriimself, saddle his horse, mounr, and fall intous rank in eight minutes, was put under arrestor a fortnight.The trumpet frequently sounded before we hadscarcely got into bed, by way of giving the youngmen a habit of vigilance. The L'fe Guards lostmnore men and horses in a time of profound peace,ijhan they would have done in two battles.I had been scarcely three weeks Cadet, whenline day, after the parade, the King took me aside,ja xamined me for near half an hour, on a variety3 if subjects, and ordered me to wait on him to-dnorrow. He was desirous of seeing whether thefavourable accounts he had heard of me were wmliWounded •, and to ascertain their truth, gave meihe names of fifty soldiers to learn by heart,, which,n did in five minutes. He then gave me the sub-,fleets of two letters, and I composed them imme¬diately in French and Latin, writing one anddlictating the other. He afterwards desired me■ to draw the plan of a piece of ground, by the eye,irrmd with all the dispatch possible ; which I didtlwith the same success. He then appoint&d meoCornet in the Life Guards. He spoke to me likek King and a father ; and from that moment be-*. icame my tutor and friend.i I was a Cadet only three weeks; When thustiimade an officer, the King gave me two horses'ufrom his own stables, and a thousand crowns tobassist in purchasing my arms, uniform, &c. t■ <was highly satisfied to find myself a courtier andnan officer, in the handsomest, bravest, and bestIV'd'?c:.plmr,d corps in Europe. My mil’tary for*trine seemed to have no bounds.We r'a&sed the winter in garrison at Berlinwhere fhe officers of our regiment lived with the!Court j antf as my ra put at ion had preceded melthither, nob’ody passed the time in a more agree¬able mauner than myself.In 174 3, I was six feet three inches high; till1then 1 was a stranger to love. The shocking1spectacle of the hospital of Potzdam, made me- i, rdread its illusions. In 154" the King’s ststeilw-as married to the King of Sweden, whose wid¬ow the now is. ©a this occasion I mounted theguard of honour in quality of Officer of the Guards,'and was ordered to escort her as far as Stettin.;In the tumult inevitable in the crowd, I lost mywatch; and a sharper was also dexterous en¬ough to cut off part of the gold fringe from mywaistcoat. My loss was the subject of much1pleasantry among the other officers; and a greatlady took occasion to say, that she would make*it her business to console me. I felt ali themeaning of this; and in a few days I was thehappiest man in Berlin. It was on both sides the ‘first tribute paid to Love. Her affection for me'was without bounds; and while I exist I shall1never forget her kindness ; but the secrets of our-intimacy is one of those that 1 will carry with me'[,|stto the grave. She is still alive, and an absenceof forty-three years has not been capable of mak-;Lag any change in her sentiment.. My children1alone shall know the name of the person to whomthey are indebted for their father’s preservation.I lived happy and respected at Berlin. 1 heKing on every occasion gave me marks of favour}'toreI#*-ICf.llOf;.'f.iir nvslrrss supplied me with mere money. -[ n I could spend, and my appearance was soonfire brilliant than any officer in the corps. MyIjiences attracted notice, for I had only inherit-c from my father the estate of Scliaflack, whichkiduoed about a thousand crowns a year; andit ometimes spent more than that sum in ainnth.rn the beginning of September 174<3, war wasinlared between Prussia and the house of Au>1 i. We marched hastily towards Prague, andtossed through all Saxony without meeting with: smallest opposition. I dare not relate here,at the Great Frederick said sorrowfully to usvery morning of our departure from Potzdam,en all the officers were assembled about hisson. This time Frederick took the field withref, as I was witness.If I do not mistake, the King’s army investedgue on the 14ch of September; that of Gene-Schwerin, who had marched through Silesia,tlhae a day later from the other side of the Muir-1|, and we were obliged to wait eight days lon-for pontoons, to open a communication be-een the two armies.General Harsh was obliged to capitulate, afterelve days resistance. Eighteen thousand menre made prisoners of war; the number of therrison killed and wounded during the siege noti receding five hundred.• So far we met with no obstacle; however, theonperial army, under the command of Princeparies, who had left the banks of the Rhine, ad-nced to save Bohemia. His light armed troopsing thrice as numerous as ours, prevented ourmforaging. Famine and vrant therefore obligedto retreat, having no relief to hope for from t!icountry behind us, which we had laid entirel!waste on our march. The severity of the seasc:,in November made the soldiers very impatient; isix'weeks we lost forty-two thousand men, eitheby sickness or desertion. In short, we were obiliged to abandon Bohemia. AH the cavalry wai;dismounted for want of forage ; the severity 01the weather, the broken roads, continual march],ing and repeated alarms, diffused a general spiri.iof discontent, and a third of the army deserted, jPnnc" Charles followed us as far as the fron-,tiers of Bohemia and halted there, to put his troopsinto winter quarters.- This gave the King timeto reel u;t his army, especially by the return of hiadeserters, whom the Austrians were imprudentenough to dismiss.In this campaign, I passed few nights in mytent; and my indefatigable activity procured me;the favour and entire confidence of the KiNothing contributed so much to keep up my res¬olution, as the public praises I received* when Ireturned to head quarters from foraging, with six¬ty or eighty waggons loaded, while others cameback empty.I was sent one day from Bencschen on a forag¬ing party, with a detachment of thirty Hussaisand twenty Rangers. I posted my Hussars in aconvent, and went with the Rangers to a gen¬tleman’s seat, to procure a sufficient numberof waggons to bring off hay and straw from anadjacent farm. But a Lieutenant of Austri¬an Hussars, who lay concealed in a wood withthirty-six horse, having remarked the weaknessof my escort, took advantage of the moment,te,,rv,9: hen my people were employed in loading thejaggons, and surprising my sentinel, fell sudden-j ii upon them, and took the whole party prison-sin the farm-yard. I was sitting quietly in iftei-ntleman’s seat, with the mistress of the house,lid saw from the window what happened.11 was afflicted beyond measure, and the good la-r was proposing to hide me, when I heard a fit-! ;g at the farm. 1 he Hussars posted at the eon-fcm, had been told by a peasant, that there wasi i Austrian detachment in the wood; they saw; i go into the farm-house, hastened to our assis-: Ince, and came up a few minutes after the sur-i rise. It is impossible to express the pleasurerlrith which I joined them. Some of the enemy’sHussar's escaped by the back door; however wehade twenty-two prisoners, among whom was aJiireutenant of the regiment of Kalnockichen.ihey had two men killed and one wounded, andiolost on my side two Rangers, who were killed4 the hay loft where they were at work. Afteribis reincounter we continued to forage with great-|r precaution, the horses we had taken served inilart to draw waggons; and having laid the con-nent under contribution to the amount of a hun-sred and fifty ducats which I distributed among*ty soldiers to purchase their silence, we set offo rejoin the army. The King was at table wheng| came into his tent. As I had been absent theirlvhole night every body had supposed me taken,ii vhich had that day been the fate of many others.3i The instant I came in the King asked me if I re-i urned alone: ‘No, Sire’ answered I ‘ I bring.with me five and twenty waggons loaded withborage, and twenty-two prisoners, with their offl-10Ci?rs and horses.’ The King immediately macme sit down : and turning to the English Amba,sador, who was sitting beside him, tapped me athe sV uider, and said, “ This is one of my youtlful Matadors!” The horse intended to reconnoits jj.'.tot-Si;"Kbthe enemy was already waiting before his tent, tconsequently asked me a few questions, and tthose few I could not answer without tremblingSome minutes after he rose from table, cast hi 4tqes on the prisoners, and putting the OrderMerit round my neck, ordered me to go and refmyseif. As I was not without money, 1 gaveach non-commissioned officer twenty ducats, ameach private soldier a ducat, to induce their sillence. I determined, however, to embrace, thfirst opportunity of making the King acquainte<with the truth and found a convenient one twcdays after. We were on a march, and in qualit;of Corner, I was ac the head of the troop. TheKing tode on before the drums, and beckoningto me to come to him, addressed me in theifwords: ‘ Now, Trtmck, till me the patticulars oyour late success.’ When I heard this question]1 did not doubi my being betrayed ; but the Kingasked with such apparent good humour, that 1 re¬lated the matter exaetly as it had passed, I obser¬ved maikscf astonishment in hi* countenance;but I saw at the same time that he was not dis¬pleased with my sincerity. He talked with meihalf an hour, more like a father than a King,,praised my candour and concluded with thesewords, which I shall never forget: ‘ Depend up¬on me, and follow my advice, and I will makea man of you.’ it was not long before I perceiv¬ed the confidence the King placed in me after thisI1h11ccplanation, I received many marks of it in theourse of the following winter which we passedt Berlin.In oar retreat from Bohemia, the King enter-i Kolin with his horse Guards, the piquetsi lorse belonging to head quarters, and the sec-nd and third battalions of Guards: we had butr our pieces of cannon, and our squadron was post-i d in the suburbs. Towards the evening, cur; dvanced guards were driven in ; the Hussars en-i Jered with them pell mell into the suburbs, andsjhe enemy’s light troops swarmed in all the envi-i juris.|l Our commandant sent me immediately to rc-eive the King’s orders. Aiur having soughtim a great while, I found him at last on the topa steeple, with a perspective glass in his hand,never saw him so uneasy and undetermined aspn that day. We were ordered to retreat imme-iiately and to retire through the town to the op¬posite suburb, when we were directed to haltwithout taking the bridles or saddles off our hor-ies.We were scarcely there when a dark nightame on, accompanied by a deluge of rain. Ab¬ut nine o’clock, L’renck (an Austrian commander,nd a relation of mine) appeared with his turkishusic, and set fire to several houses. As soons we perceived it, we began to fire musketryut of the windows. The tumult was terrible,he town was so full of people that we could notorce an entrance; the gate was shut and our fieldpieces kept firing from above. Trenck stoppedthe passage of the water •, by midnight it was asigh as our horses’ bellies, and we were almost12ifttsentirely abandoned. We lost six men, and mhorse was wounded in the neck—It is certaiithat the King as well as the rest of us, wouhhave been made prisoner, if my cousin coultIiave continued the attack. But receiving a wounoin the loot with a cannon ball, he was obliged tcbe carried off, and the Pandours retired. Thiday following Nassaw’s corps came to our assis.tance. VVe left Kolin, and while on the marcHthe King said to me, ‘Your cousin might havi]played us an unlucky trick that night; butaccoriding to the report of the deserters, he was killed. I.About the middle of December tve arrived aiii-Beilin, where I was received with open armsitfIt v'as less prudent then in former years, and per-k„,haps ritore observed. A Lieutenant of the PooiGuards jesting indecently on the secret of my am.ours, I drew upon him, and wounded him in the ■<;face. The Sunday after I went to pay my courtto the King : ‘ Sir/ said he, ‘ the thunder roarsand, if you do not take care, may fall upon youthead.’Some time after I came a few minates too lateto the parade ; the King remarked it, and sentme under arrest to Potzdam, where l remainedupwards of three weeks, owing to the artifices of.Colonel Warteslaben.I did not recover my liberty till three days be¬fore our departure for Silesia; towards which wemarched only in May to begin our second cam¬paign. I will here relate an incident that hap.pened to me this winter, which became the sourceof all my misfortunes.Francis Baron Trenck, who commanded thePzndours in the service of Austria, having beentori'%ofV::[[illISdangerously wounded in Bavaria in the year 114$,wrote to my mother to tell her it was his inten-; ion to make me his heir. This letter, to whicht made no answer, was sent to me at Potzdam.i nandant of the Life Guards, in company withLieutenant Studnitz, and Cornet Wagnitz, wh©' ived with me in the same apartment. The con-: 'ersation turned on the Austrian Trenck, and Isa-hinzki asked me if I was related to him. I an-. twered yes, and said that he had made me hi*likir. He asked me, what answer I had made,t: told him none. On this the whole companyobserved that in such circumstances, I should beimuch in the wrong if I did not answer his letter.fWrite to him/ added our commandant, ‘anddesire him to send you some handsome Hungari-n horses for chargers. Give me your letter andit will have it delivered by M de Bossart, Secreta¬ry of Legation to the Saxon Ambassador, on con¬ation that you give me one of the horses. Ibislorrespondence is a'family coneern, and not aniffair of state j besides I will take the whole uponre, &c.’ I sat down to write immediately, inlompliance wdth the advice of my commandingfiicer. I gave my letter open to Isachinzki; heiealed it himself and sent it away.This letter, with the following incident, wase sole cause of all my misfortunes.In the campaign of 1744, one of my grooms withwo saddle horses was taken, as well as severalIthers, by Trenck’s light troops. On my return toamp, I was ordered to accompany the King, whoas going to reconnoitre. My horse being fa-1411-Q1ttir.Ltigued his Majesty immediately made me a presentof a beautiful English race-horse. A few days |iafter, I was astonished to see my groom comeback, with my two horses and a trumpet fromthe enemy i who brought a note, in nearly thessterms:‘ The Austrian Trenck is rot at war with thePrussian Frenck, his cousin. On the contrary,he is very happy to have it in his power to sendhim back his horses, which he has recovered fromthe hands of his Hussars.’That day I waited on the King, and was verycooly receivgd. 4 Since your cousin, said he, hassent you back your horses, you have no longerany occasion for mine.’We marched into Silesia to begin the secondcampaign, which was to us as destructive as glo¬rious to Prince Charles, instead of waiting for usin Bohemia, imprudently advanced and postedhimself in the Plain of Strigan.Our army was drawn in haste, from its can¬tonments in the neighbourhood of Kamenz, andin twenty four hours was in order of battle. The14-th of June eighteen thousand dead bodies cov-cred the plain of Strigan; and the imperial army,and that of Saxony, its ally, were totally defeat¬ed.The Life Guards were on the right: beforethe attack, the King said to our squadron, ‘ Nowmy friends prove that you are my Guards, andspare no Saxon ■’ Three times we changed theCavalry, and the infantry twice. We alone tookseven standards and five colours, and in less thanan hour all was over..1 received a pistol shot in the right hand; myfi' ■iw-lusifjitoKS«'K,ID-' •titDr*-.1ISi horse was badly wounded, and at the third chargeI was obliged to mount another. The followingiday all the officers received the order of Merit;i Tor my pait I remained near a month in the hos-’ipital at Schweidoitz. More than sixteen thou-•jsand wounded men were dressed there; some ofwhom could get no assistance till the third day.The campaign passed in marching and coun¬iter-marching: we were the most fatigued, be-iicause the Guards encamped round the King'stent, which, placed in the middle of the camp,always formed the van-guard.The famous battle of Sorau was fought on Sep-:ember 14th. The King had sent such large de-achments into Saxony, Silesia, and Bohemiahat the grand army consisted at most of twentyix thousand men, had surrounded the small nuai-er of Brandenburgh and Pomeranian troops withore than eighty six thousand men, and was inopes of taking them all prisoners.About midnight the King came into my tenti»nd went likewise into those of the other officerso wake them; he ordered the horses to be sad-)»lled without noise, the baggage to be left behind,hind the whole army to hold themselves in readi¬es® for action.Eight field pieces were placed behind a risinground opposite the defile through which theting meant to pass, and where it was intendeda begin the action, lie must have received in-ibnnation of all the designs of the Austrian Ge-eral, lor he had called in all the advanced postsn the heights to inspire him with greater confi-ence.At the dawn of day, the Austrian artillery16planted on the heights, cannonaded our earr.p,and the cavalry, advancing to attack us, enteredthe defile.We immediately drew up in order of battle,and in less than ten minutes began the attack;notwithstanding our small number of men, (therewere only five regiments of cavalry with our ar¬my,) and fell with the greatest rapidity on the en¬emy, at that moment employed in slowly formingtheir squadrons in the front of the defile. Wedrove them back into the defile, which was crowd¬ed full of men. The King immediately orderedthe eight field pieces to be unmasked, and theymade terrible havoc.Nadaste Trenck, and the light troops that wereto have attacked us in the rear, stopped to pillageour camp; it is worthy of remark, that whennews was brought to the King, that the Croatswere pillaging the camp, he answered, < Somuch the better, they will have something to do,and will not prevent us from carrying the princi¬pal point,’ \Ve were completely victorious, butlost the baggage. The head-quarters, left with¬out defence, were entirely pillaged; and Frenckhad for his share of the plunder, the king’s tent,and all his silver plate. A few days after thebattle of Soran, the post-man brought me the fol¬lowing letter from my cousin Frenck dated fromEssex, and written four months before.‘ 1 find by your letter from Uerlin, of date Feb.12th, that you desire me to send you some Hun¬garian horses, that you may employ them againstmy Hussars and Pandours. I perceived withpleasure in the last campaign, that the PrussianTrenck was a good soldier. As a proof of my at-it• Wv■ H";i m, rI1.::.W,| litelI “Uis£ Ai, r-y|1 Hil.Q■ itwfiak. ijjf ift' •;I ii:"'I,*513-:| !•! .■j!I #it f,Ivr •\m,1 *h;-I11L,.t,,:I hie-ITschment I sent you back your horses, which' my-people had taken- But if you want Hungariansriorses, try next campaign to carry off mine byippen force; or else come and join your cousin,i who will receive you with open arms, will treatj :r-ou like a son and his friend, and will procurejyou all the advantages you can desire,’ &c.i Cornet Wagnitz and Lieutenant GratthausonI Who are both alive were present; I gave them thel etter, we laughed at its contents; and it was re--' .-j  to Colonel Isachin-orps, on condition thatn he had read my letter:v;th an appearance ol astonishment, we all be-;i;an to laugh ; and as there was a report that a bc-SJ'y of troops would be sent to Hungary, IsachinZ/*i said, ‘ we will go ourselves and take Hungari-n horses.’ Here the conversation dropped. IAn hour after we did13f': was confined as a criminal in the citadel ofGlaiz, I was not in a dungeon but in the officer’sguard-room, I was permitted to walk upon theramparts, and was waited on by my own ser¬vants.I wrote to the King, and demanded a court-martial, offering to submit to any punishment!whatever if found guilty. So determined a style,in so young a man did not please him, and I re-1ceifed no answer.From my female friend at Berlin, I received*some consolation, and a thousand ducats.‘ Here the Baron enlarges on the different*scheme* he tried to effect his escape from thejiprison of Glaiz, his adventures in Bohemi* and*Poland, with Lieutenant Schell, who desert-1’ed along with him; the barbarous treatment he^received from the Austrian Trenck at Vienna;*nnd gives a recital of the causes of that General'sdisgrace and imprisonment, which ends with thefollowing strange relation of the manner of hisdeath.’It was not ia Trenck’s power to prevent my<inheriting his father’s fortune, which was entail-4ed on me; wishing however, to give me marksof his hatred after his death, he made a will fullef absurd and contradictory clauses, which serv¬ed the with-holders of his fortune, as a pretextjto strip me of it.Though Trenck was an atheist, nobody had amore ardent desire than h# to acquire an extra-)ordinary reputation ; he therefore resolved to put!an end to his existence; and to make himselfjpass for a saint at his death.For this purpose, three days before his death,.m19ifien he was in the best of health possible, here-i|ested the commandant tc send to Vienna foriifcbnfessor; St. Francis having, as he said, declar-; to him that he would die on his bnth-day atrp'on precisely. 1 hough every body laughed ats prediction, the Capuchin Friar was sent for.i| The day after Trencfe had confessed himself,it exclaimed, ‘ God be praised ! rr.y end ap-fcaches; my professor is just dead and hasIpeared to me.’ Upon inquiry it was foundat the monk was really dead. Trer.ck thengged all the officers of the garrison to come to3 prison: to^k the tonsure, dressed himself ine habit of a Capuchin Friar; made a publicnfessicn and preached an hour, exhorting hisdience to think of their salvation. He thenak leave of them, knelt down to say his pray-s, fell into a sound sleep, rose and prayed a-liijiin. Oct. the 4th, he looked at his watch, atneven o’clock in the morning, and cried out,sGod be praised, my last hour is not farlivery body present wa# much entertained at see-ig a man of his character play so ridiculous afomedy However it was remarked that bis faceas pale on the left side. He then seated him-:!f beside a table, leaned his head upon his hand,id after saying a prayer, continued motionless,frith his eyes shut.! In the month of March, 1754, I received newsf the death of my mother, and asked the Boardf War for six months leave of absence to go toiilantzick, in order to concert with my brothersFnd sister the steps necessary to be taken, rela-sive to any possessions that had been confiscatedla Prussia. I obtained it; and in the month of20May, set off for that city, where l fe!h a secondtime into the hands of the Prussians.The people of Vienna concerned in my cous>n’seffects, by several base schemes and false insinu¬ations,. endeavoured to get me agiin into thehands of the Prussians, that they might quietlyenjoy that fortune which was justly my due.My brothers and sister came to me at Dantzick,.,in May. We passed a fortnight together, andshared my mother’s fortune.‘ The Baron’s pleasures were short lived ; theMagistracy of Dantzick, intimidated or bribedby the King of Prussia, whose revenge was stillunsatisfied, when he was on the very eve of de¬parting from their city, arrested and surrenderedhim into the hands of that despot': and with astrong escort, he was conducted to the Garri¬son of Madgeburgh in Prussia.’The King ordered a new dungeon to be built’on purpose for me, and prescribed the form ofthe chains I was to wear. When I was led to it,good Heaven! what did T perceive ; but twolocksmiths, with their hammers and anvil, andthe whole floor covered with chains of about 68-;,pounds weight. They went immediately towork; my feet were fastened to a ring sunk inthe wall, at about three feet from the ground, so>that I could only take two or three stepson each-side. They then gift my naked body with abroad iron girdle, from which descended a chain,fastened at the other extremity to a bar of irontwo feet long. At each end of this bar was ahandcuff that confined my hands ; and a collarwas added in 1756. As soon as the work wascompleted, every body retired in silence ; and I;21: henrcl life dreadful creaking cf four doors, whichii»hut close upon one another.The name of Trenck had incrusted on the wall,with red bricks; and under my feet was a tomb■ jintended for me, on which alio was my name and| a Death’s head. There were two oaken doorsito the dungeon; and in the way to it a kind of1 lobby, into which a window had been opened*' iwhich was likewise secured by two doors of theoame kind. It was the King’s intention that thisdungeon should be built in such a manner, as toJput it out of my power to have the least com-; (municaiion with the sentinel; it was surroundedwith pallisades twelve feet high, forming a kindpf park ; and the key was deposited with theuguard-officer. I had tamed a mouse so perfectly,:ithat the little animal was continually playing withsiime, and used to eat out of my mouth. Ones;inight it skipped about so much, that the sentinelsshearing a noise, made their report to the officerbf the guard. The Town Major arrived early in' it he morning, accompanied by locksmiths andjjmasons, ihe floor, the walls, my chains andMmy body, were strictly examined: but finding allan order, they asked me the cause of last evening’ss bustle. I frankly told them by what it had been^occasioned ; on which they desired me to call myspittle favourite, I whistled and it immediatelyleaped upon my shoulder. I solicited its pardon,xbut the officer of the guard took it into his pos-; session, promising, however, to give it to a lady,it for whose care he would answer. Turning itijjafterwards loose in his chamber, the mouse soon2 disappeared, and hid itself in a hole. But at then usual hour of visiting my prison, when the olli-22cers were just going away, the poor little animaldarted in, climbed up my legs, seated itself on myshoulder, and played a thousand tricks, to ex¬press its joy. Every one was astonished at thisstriking instance of animal sensibility. The Ma¬jor carried the mouse away, and gave it to hiswife, who had a little cage- made for it; but the,little animal refusing to eat, was, in a few daysafter, found dead.In this seclusion the Baron remained aboutnine years, when the King probably tired ofpunishing, consented to his release. After which,he retired to Vienna, where he was confined ashort time at the instigation of those who enjoy¬ed his property, under a false charge of madness.He found himself necessitated to withdraw hispecuniary claims, and for all his losses, only re¬ceived the brevet rank of Major in the Austrianservice.No doubt the Revolution in France pointed outthat country as a place where he might finish hi*days in liberty and peace. What then must bethe reader’s astonishment at the tragical fatewhich the Baron at last met in that nation ! Itdoes not appear what part he took in politics}or upon what specific charges he was sentenced!to the Gullotine, upon the downfall of Robes¬pierre's party.‘ God, who hitherto has enabled me, amidst athousand perils, to act the part of an honest man,and of a real martyr to the cause of Truth, will,I trust, protect and strengthen me in the lastscene of tragedy, nor suffer my fortitude to failme, when I meet with obstacles insurmountable/ ’)j^l1 Th:VM:' hIk,H’1 Hi■23THE COMMON LOT.Once in the flight of ages past.There liv’d a man;—and who was he?Mortal i howe’er thy lot be cast,That man resembles thee.Unknown the regions of his birth,The land in which he died unknown ;His name hath perish’d from the earth,This truth survives alone;That joy, and grief, and hope, and fear,Alternate triumph’d in his breast -,His bliss and woe,—a smile, a tear ; Oblivion hides the rest.The bounding pulse, the languid limb,The changing spirits rise and fall;We know that these were felt by him,For these are felt by all.He suffer’d—but his pangs are o’er;Enjoy’d,—but his delights are fled;Had friends—his friends are now no more,And toes—his foes are dead.He lov’d, but whom he lov’d the graveHath lost in its unconscious womb :O ! she was fair ! but nought could saveHer beauty from the tomb.'1 he willing seasons day and night,Sun, moon, and stars, the earth andI2tEre while his portion, life and light3To him exist in vain.He saw whatever thou hast seen, '• 'Encounter’d'all that troubles thee;He was—whatever thou hast been ;He is—what thou shalt be.The clouds and san-beams, o’er his eye.That once their shades and glory threw,Have left, in yonder silent sky,No vestige where they flew.The annals of the human race,Their ruin since the world began,@f him afford no other traceThau thiSj-—tfore US da manvnew