'-P’v* 4-$'4s* v*v- -$• $- $■■§• v v* v- v- •§• ^ -rTHECOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMPLE JOHNAND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES,Which happened in twelve days after theunhappy day of bis .Maniagt. ,•GLASGOW:PRINTSB FOR , tT{3 1$ . BOOKSF. LLEijlS.% ■% :4-4- v % 4"&4 &4'> 4- **$• -V-XV V4'^ <? '$->7 <«• *$• ❖ N <s*4'^*%^theCOMICAL HISTORY OFSIMJPJLE JOMItf,AND HISTWELVE MISFORTUNES.Simple John was a widow’s son, andcourse country weaver to his trade,lie made nothing but such as canvasslor cad-beds, corn and coal sacks, drug¬get and harn was the finest webs hecould lay his fingers to ; he was a great'lump of a lang lean lad, aboon sax feetafore he was aughteen year auld ; andhe said himsel, he grew saefast, andwas in sic a hurry to be high, that hedid not stay to bring a’ his judgment wi* vhiraa and ye; ie hoped it would follow ;hinnj si ii *01 meet wi’t as mony asue i. ivry are married. He l0shad but ae sister, and she had aslittle sense as himsel, she was mar¬ried on sleeky Willie, the wilie wea¬ver ; his mither was a rattling rattle-scull’d wife, and they lived a’ in aei house, and every body held them asa family of fools. When John cameto man’s estate, to the age of twentyone years, he told his mither he wouldhae a wife o’ some sort, either youngj or auld, widow or lass, if they hadbut heads and lips, tongue and tail,i he should tak them, and weel I wat,mither, quoth he, they’ll get a lumping]penny-worth o’ me get me wha will.His mither tells him o’ the blackIbutcher on Ti’ot side, wha had threeSlaughters, and every ane o’ them had^something, there was Kate, Ann, andijGirzy, had a hundred merks the piece.iKate and Ann had baith bastards.iGirzy, the eldest, had a humph back, athigh breast, baker legged, a short Wryineck, thrawn mouth, and goggle ey’d,a perfect zEsop of the female kind, withias many crooked conditions within asiwithout, a very lump of loon-like ill-! mature, row’d a’ together, as if she had4-fyeep ,in a hag^'s.^ a- sey-qpi)fl .volition of :ci’9flfiet] .backed lfic!>ard> /oUl .English- Ki>g,; -Avasiborn with U:c!.h to bite a’ roinid abouthim, and yc-t the wight gaed mad to bemarried. f;|01{ vbod viovo hnaJqhp’s nniher told bmi, fhe rpad,whero to gx?, find w’nat to sqy. and aq-cordingly he s^ts yuiit! ^i’-his Suqdity^coat on," a-qd^ a’ Jus .braw?, qncl a pahof new pillonlan brocks o’ his mitlier’;;making. In he comes and tills hiserramlV hefore he \yoijfU\ fit dpw-i^j' .Wfljgflod day to yioip. gpo^p^n,. what;arc ye a’ doing here ? I am wanting awife, an ye’ie a Hesher, and has a gudesorting adde yon, my niith.er says yescan sair me or ony body like me, w!i^say ye tiil’t good man ? How manydoirchters hae ye?. Are they ,marriedyet ? 1 fain \yad; tqk a look ;q’ .seme q*!them gin ye like. ►A vow, said the goouwife, come iiQlby? ]n;nest lad, and rest-ye, and ye bea woper sit down and, gie’s a snudJ.-rA deed, gqodwife, X hae .naq mills, butmy miiher's, ami it's at ha me,—whasjwin yc ? JL’;se no ken ye ? I vvat? .quoUj^ 5iso, my name’s Jock Sandy man, ami theyca’ me ^Simple John the sack weaver.I hae pae, toclicr but my loom, a pirn-wheel, a kettle, pat, a brass pan, twapigs, four cogs, and a candlestick, agood cock, a cat, twa errocks new be¬gun to lay : my sister, Sara, is marriedon Sleeky Willy, the wyiie weaver, andI maun hae a gudewife or my mitherdie, for, truly, &he’s very frail, and onybar! .o’ health she has is about dinnertime ; but what say ye till’t goodman?ean ye buckle me or pat ?Goodman.) A dear John, ye’re in aunco baste,, y.e wadna liae your wifehame wi’ ye? they are a’ there beforeyc, wlpcb o’ thom will vefak?liout, tout, says Jolm,'ony o’ themwilj saif me, but my mither says there istwa o’ them has faints. And what istheir, fauts? s^ys the-goodwife. Hout,said John, it’s no meikle faut, but Idinna like it, they got men or theywere married. And what shall 1 dowith them ? said the goodman.John.) A deed, good man, as ye’re aydealing among dead beasts and living■beasts, I wad put them away amangihsr CiSiSJts, or gfn ye he ami ony pennyet ai'jsnebo^y tak them up o’ despenatedebt, I sudfiie the fykes frae them, theyangei’d you, and sham’d yon baith withtheir bastards, a wheen daft jades it getsmen or they be married, and bairns orthey get bridals.Gbodu'lfe.J A wat weel that’s truehuLGirzy.j A weel, John, then, will ;tak me; I hae nae bastards ; how willyou and I do ?John.) I wat na gin ye be able to geta bastard, yet ye may hae some vvaurfaut; but ye maun be my pennyworth,for ye’re unco little, and I'm o’er muc-kle, and gin ye and I war ance cardedthrough itber, we may get bonny weanso’< a middlin mak. I hae nae fauts toye, but ye hae a high breast, a humphback, a short neck, and high shonthers,the bands and legs may do, tho’ yourmouth be a wee to the tae side, it willlie weel to the rock, and I hae a ban-tie o’ tow to spin, will be baith sarksand sacks till us, ye’ll be my soncydauty, up and down ; a perfect beauty,wi’ cat’s ‘ellow een, black brous, and7red lips, and your very nose is a purple,colour; you hae nae fauts at a/ 4 Now,when will we be married.’Girzij.) Ha, ha, John lad, we maunthink on that yet.John.) What the yeltow, lass, should!na ye be ready whan I’m ready, andevery body says that the woman’s ayeready.Goodman.) Ye’ll hac to come backand bring somebody wi’ you, anil we’llgree about it, and set the day whan ye’llbe married.John.) Aweel, Goodman, I’ll tell mymither o’t, and come back on Mon-day, and we’ll hae a chappin o’ale, androasted cheese on the chance o’t, but Imaun hae a word o’ the bride out by,|o convoy me, and a quiet speak to her-|el about it.Goodwife.') A vow na, John, thellaft loons will laugh at you, and she’llrliink shame, gang ye out by, andpbe’ll speak to you through the gaveltvindow..Out goes John, and the bride ami herwa sisters goes to the window within torear the diversion, and what he wouldV8say, ,NTpw, ^ays John, piVzy,. my ;jlqar,my 1)iaw pretty wa;nan, an ye be inearnest, tell me, for by my suth I’m noftcprning. y , : i.Girzy.). Indeed, John, I’m very wil¬ling to tab ye, bnt.ye neednA tell everybody about it. : .rloJiti,) ;X|iea; ;gse -mq a kiss on that.He shuts his head in at tlie window,making a lapg njeq^ tjo win down toher, and she stpod on a littie'stpolta>vin up to him. O, cries he, an ye weregood flesh I could eat ye a’I like, yo.isae wed ; its- a pity there -is sic a ban:wa* ^between us, I’sp tell my m ft her safibonny as ye .are. O gie me anither kissyet, and ,ti\en I’Jl go. One of her sis¬ters standing by in a ponver, ge:t| JiautA,; cqw'g-bead,.which wanted a’ jt!)p skiibut about the mouth, and shuts it out towaj’ds his-poutb, which lie kissed in tjicdark. O, cries he, but jour mpu’ beppuld sipce J . kiss’d ye last,,,aAid I thiplve hae a beard, I saw nae that bdbre,ois it wi* spinning towr, that maks youmouth-sae rough at een.t Uame, bp comes.dand- tells bis mithethe sjieed and properties of the marriageI.AIT things 'were gbt:ready, & next, webkSl’ebky W^iie tl)e w-e%;ver and him efeuieto gree the marriage, and stay all nightwith the bride, and teach John goedinamiers, fof whyn John was hungry hehiiiided his meat mare tham his -goodbehaviour, and he never was in’till tiredish was tume. Willie the weaver wasi to tramp on bis Tit when he thoughti he had sdppet enoughso all thingsrbeing agreed Upon short, and eadvterms, and the wedding 'da!y!set, the|fwere to beeried three times on Sunday,and quietly married on Mbnd-ay, nei--ther [,'ipcr uor fiddler to; be employ¬ed, but Swdth aw a hame frAfe the Minis¬ter’s, ’ gnd into tbef bed aitlang llioblankets; Ha, ha, cried John, that’s thebest o’t.a.No\V'every thing being cdncludbd,and proposed, the supper was brought,a large fat haggis, the very sihcll wada'cihne at hungry body gude, but John» ouiic a uwij ijU'-i.t, ww....had rot only twa or three sotij)S, until,1 fine of the biitcherVroeikle dd^s train1-)CJ on-John’s fit, which- he took to bohe wea'ver, and then he vVad eat nacifiuir. After supper thejf'went to bedfr /10John anti (.he weaver lay together, antithen he abused the weaver for tramp¬ing so soon, which he denied ; but O,saitl John, there’s a hantle o’t left, antiI saw where it was set; they are a’sleeping. I’ll go rise and take a soup o’tyet. Aye, een do sae, said sleeky Wil¬lie, and bring a soup to me too. Awaythen John goes to the amry and laysto the haggles, till his ain haggles couldhand nae mair ; then brought some toSleeky Willie ; but instead of going tothe bed where he was, goes to the bedwhere the bride and the twa sisters lay, |1they being fast asleep, speaks slowly.Will ye tak it, will ye tak it; but theymaking no answer, he turns up theblankets to put a soup into Willie’smouth, but instead of doing so, be putsa great spoonful close into one of theirbacksides. Sleeky Willie hears a’ thatpast, comes out of the bed, and sups outthe remainder, and sets up the dishwhere it was, leaves the amry door open jto let the cats get the blame of sup¬ping the baggies, and away they go tobed ; but poor John could get nae sleepfor drouth; up lie gets in search of thq11water-can, and finding an empty.pit-ciier, puts in his hand to find it theie;was any water in it, but finding nane,he closed his hand when it was withinthe pitcher, and then cotild not get itout, goes to the bed and tells SleekyWillie what had happened him, whoadvised him to open the door, and goout to a kriocking-stane that stood be¬fore the door, and break it there, toget out his hand, and not to make anoise in the house. So out he goes,and the bride’s sister who had gotten tiregreat spoonful of the haggis laid to herbackside, was out before, him, rubbingtlie nastiness (as sjre took it to be) offthe tail of her sark, and she beingin a looting posture, he took herfor the knocking-stane, and comes o'erlier hurdies with the pitcher, till it flbwin pieces about her, then off she runswith the fright round a turf-stack, andinto the house before him. John camein trembling to the bed again, wi’ thefright, praying to preserve him, for sic aknocking-stane he never yet saw, for itran clean awa when he broke the pigupon it.k12Now John was furnished in a iiousel)y his lathei-ir: taw ; -tHe he'd, the loom,Iteddles, treddles, thrunjbs, reed, andpirn wheel, was a’ brought and set upbefore the marriage, which was kepta profound secret; so that John gotthe first night of his ain wife, and bisain house at ae time. So on the nextmorning after the marriage, John andids wife made up some articles, howthey were to work and keep house;John was to keep the house in meat,meal, fire,and water ; Girzy was to tnakthe meat and keep the house in clothes,the father-in-law to pay the rent forthree years ; they were to hae nae ser¬vants, untill they "had children; andtheir first child was to’ be John, afterits ■ ain daddy, get it wha will, if aboy; and if a girl, Giizy, after its a inminny, aa slip said, wha wrought bestfor’t.13MISFOm UNE LThen she ordered' John to rise nndbegin his wark, by putting on a hreand tak the twa new pigs and gangtot lie well for water. No sooner hadJohn opened the door, and gone out,with a pig in every hand, than a’ theboys and girls being gathered in a crowdto see him, give a loud hazza ; and chip¬ping their Hands at him, poor Johnnot knowing what it meant, thought itwas fine sport, began to clap his hands-too,-and not minding the twa pigs,,clashes the lane Against the tithe;:, liftbaith went to pieces, and that wiis acheerful huzzfl to baith young and atildthat was, looking at him; Grizef, thewife, draws him into his house, and tohim she fiie's with the wicked wife’sweapons, her Toiigue and Tangs, andmade hjs ribs to crack, saying, “ Theytold me ye War daft, but 1’lfding theda (fin out o’ye. I’ll begin wi* you asI’ve a mini! to end wi’ yon.” PoorJohn sat crying and chtwing In's higs^14“ JLi, ba,” said lie, “ its nae bairn’splay to be married, 1 find that already.”His mother-in law came in and madenp peace, went to a cooper, and gotthem a big wooden stoup to carry intheir water.MISFORTUNE II.Next morning John was sent to theflesh-market an errand to his father-in-law, who gave him a piece of fleshto carry home, and as he was comingout of the market, be saw six or sevenof the flesher dogs fall on and w’ory ata poor country colly dog, “ Justice, jus¬tice,” cries John to the dogs, “ ye’rebut a wheen unmannerly rascals, thatfa‘s atari ae poor beast, heth ye shoulda‘be put in the toubuoth, and ta’en tothe bailies, and hanged for the like o’that; its perfect murder,” and in heruns amongst the dogs, “ and be hang¬ed to you a‘thegither, What is the quar¬rel ? What is the quarrel ? John flingsdown the flesh he was carrying, andgrips the colly, who took John for an15enemy too, and bites his hand till theblood follwcfd* the whole of the t)kescomes a’ on poor John, till down hegoes in the dirt amongst their feet, andone of the dogs runs off with the flesh,so John went hame both dirty amibloody and witivout his flesh, told Girzyhow it happened, who applied her oldplaister, her Tangs and Tongue, madeJohn to curse the very minister thatmarried them, and wished he mightne’er do a better turn.MISFORTUNE III.Next morning, John was sent to thewell with the great stoop to bring inwater for breakfast ; and as he was pull¬ing the stoup out of the well,/in he tum¬bles and his head down,, the well beingnarrow, he could na win out: some peo¬ple passing by chance, heard theslunge,cried, and ran to his relief, haul‘d himout half dead, and helping him into thehouse j and after getting a dry sark, hewas comforted with the old pl.aister»her tongue and her tangs,IWISFORTUKE IV.Next day, slie Says, John, I irmstE^o to the market myself, lor if yon izoyon’ll tight vvi’ the dogs, and let themrun away wF ohy thing you buy: see!that you put on the pat, hae’t boilingagain 1 come hame. John promisedwed,; but perfonhs very badly. She’sno sooner gone; than he put on thenew pat, without any water in it, anda good fire to make it boil, and awayhe goes to the unhappy wed, fills his,stpup, and sets it down to look aj aparcel of boys playing at cat and dhythey persuaded John to take a gafheJ w:1'them, on he plays till ane o’ {he boyscries. Hey John, yonders yodr Cir^v'coming. John runs into the hodsewi’ the water, and the pat being redhot on the fire, he fcirfres in the eauklwater into it, which made the pat fleeall in pieces, just as she' was enterih^tlie door. John rins ftn' it, and sheruns after him, crying, catch the thief,some persons stopped him ; site cottiea57up, anti then ahe laboured him all theway hame, and he cried, () sirs, yesee vyhat it is to be married. Themother-in-law had to make up peaceagain, land he promised good behaviourin time to come.MISFORTUNE V.On the next morning she sent him tothe water to wash some cow’s puddings'and turn them on a spindle, shewinglilm bow he was to do or he went away.John goes to the water very willingly,and as he turned and washed them, helaid them down behind him, where Oneof his father-in-law’s big dogs stood andate them up as fast as he laid themdown, till all was gone but the very lastane, which he carried hnme in'his hand,crying like a child, and underwent a se¬vere tost of the old plaister before’anymercy was shewn.MISFORTUNE VI.IIi;s fathcj'-in-law, next day Bent him18away lo bring home a fat calf he hadbought in the country, and tied up themoney in a napkin, which he carried inIns hand for fear he should lose it. Be¬ing very weighty, as it was all in half¬pence, and as he was going alongst abridge, he meets a man running after ahorse, who cries’ to John to stop thehorse; John meets him-on the top ofthe bridge, and when lie would not bestopped for him . he knocks the horseon the face with the napkin and themoney, so the napkin rave, and most ofthe halfpence flew over the bridge, inthe water, which made poor John gohome crying very bitterly for the loss,and dread of. the old plaister, which hegot very sickerly.MISFORTUNE VII.On the next morning, she sent himagain to the bridge, to see if he couldfind any of it in the water, and there hefound some ducks swimming, and duck¬ing down with their heads below thewater, as he thought, gathering up hismoney, lie kills one of them, and rips19'icr up, but founi^ pone of it iu her gutsor gabbie ; then says he, they have beenbut looking for it, I’ll go do as they did ;strips off his clothes and leaves them onthe bridge, goes in a ducking, in whichtime a ragman come past, and took a-vvay all his clothes. So he went homenaked to get a bath of the dd plaister.MISFORTUNE VIII.(The next morning, she sent him to afarm-house for a pigful of butter-milk,and as he was returning through thefields, the farmer’s bull and another bullwas fighting ; the farmer's bull beinglike to loss, John runs in behind him, andsets his head to the bull’s tail, on pur¬pose to help him to push against theI other ; but the poor bull thought Johnwas some other bull attacking him be-! hind, flewaside, and the other bull camefull drive upon John, pushed him down,broke the pig, and spilt the milk. SoJohn went home to get his old plaister,which began to be a usual diet to him,and so he regarded it the less.MISFORTUNE IX.His mother-in-law, with several aqUlwitty wives, held a private ccmncil onJohn's conduct, and bad luck, and con¬cluded he was bewitched. John wasof the same opinion, and went to theMinister, and told him he was the causeof a’ his misfortunes, ca’d him a war-lock to his face, and said, he had putsuqh a bad bargain in his hand, thathe was mined for ever: insisted eitherto up man y them again, or send deathand the bellman to take her awa, forshe had a lump of mischie-f on her backand apitheron her breast, and the restof‘ her body a clean deil. The min¬ister began to exhort him to peace, andpatience, telling him that-marriages weremade in heaven: ‘ Ye’re a daist liar, saysJohn, for I was married in your ain kit¬chen, and a’ the blackguards in thetown was there; and it had a beenin heaven they vvadna win in, yetJei.l ms that matrimony was sic a happystate-, but had ye gotten as mony wee!01pay’d skins as I hac gat ten, ye wsd akend what it is ; ill chance on you sir ;and out he goes cursing like a madman,throwing stanes and breaking {lie Min¬ister’s winTlows,;for:which he was catch-ed, and put twa hours into the stocks,and at last his vrife came apd .r^l/bedJus legs,, threw his pose, got Jijm ougpud cjiro.ve him. home' Wore her* tooka .resolution neper to set him about any^iifiiness in time .coming, but keep himon his ioom.ar. os : ui lod oj oonto-yd orttoa3uirbu,o« nltd hhtfi ns n\ ?s>n miok •i6orIM LSFOUTIJX E X, .- '.I ■. i ■ . !:Kqw s!ie gave ,iiim no sleep all thatnigltt tor scolding. John got up inthe ipprning laag or day, and left hipTur.mieip,or in bed, fell asleep upon hislopip with the caqdjp in jus hand, and8p;sst the;iweb, hedd!esrreed,, and trea¬dle gpryis in flip. By chance his oldViper .l,o.oked put of the bed, o,r thewhole bous)0 had- been gone.. Up .shegot, and with her. cries alarmed theneighbourhood, whp came to hep relief,22but poor John underwent a dreadfulswabbing for this.MISFORTUNE XLAfter the former hurry and beatingbeing over, his work being stopt, hewent to bed and slept a’ that day, andfollowing night. On the next day,having nothing to do, she sent him insearch of a hen’s nest, which had ta’ensome by-place to lay her eggs in : so aspoor John was in an auld kiln searchinga’ about the walls, the kiln-ribs brokeand down he goes with a vengeanceinto the logic, cutted and bruised him¬self in a terrible manner; up he couldnot win, but had to creep out at thelogic below, scarce able to get hame,his face and nose all running of blood.In this condition she pitied and la¬mented for him very much, tied hissores and laid him in bed ; then satdown very kindly, saying, V My dear,and my lamb, do you think there is onyof your bones broken ; and what partof you is sairest? And what will 1 get93to do good ? “ Oh said he, “ Cirzy,I’m a’ brizzled atween the feet.” “ Arcye indeed ?” quoth she, “ then I wishye had broken your neck, that I mighta gotten anither, useless ae way, anduseless mae ways, upo’ my word, ye’sno be here, gang whare ye like.”MISFORTUNE XII.Now, as poor John was turned outo’ doors next morning, to go awa’ hirp-Jing on a staff'; one came and told himhis mother had died last night. Oh,hoch ! said John, and is my mither cleandehd ! O an she wad but look downthrough the lift, and see how I’m guid¬ed this morning, I’m sure she wad senddeath for me too. I’m out o-’ a mitherand out o’ a wife, out o1 my health andstrength, and a’ my warklooms. Hismother-in-law came and pleaded for him.Haud your tongue, mither, said Girzy,if ye kent what ail’d him ye wad naspeak about him, he’s useless, no worththe keeping in a house, but to ca’ Timto die like an auld beast at a dyke-uside. Flout,, tout, co’ the auld wife, I’llmak’ o’ him and he’d mend again. SoJohn got peace made up after a’, andhe was easier mended than the burntjweb ; got all his treadles & warkloomsset in order, the wife’s tongue excepted,which was made of wormwood, and therest of her body of sea-water, winch isalways in a continual tempest.So John appeals to a Jedburgh Jury,if it be not easier to deal vvi’ looks thanheadstrong fashjotis foJ,k<>; owns hehas bat an empty skuil, but his wickedwife wants wit to put Judgment, in’t.Newer tells him o’ danger till it comes.upon him, for his mother; said he was abiddable bairn, if oily body had beento learn him wit.F I N I S.