wful Phenomena, /of Nature.r   —'■ AN ACCOUNT OFSome of theii , ^Moil RemarkableEARTHQUAKES,VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS,SEA STORMS,HURRICANES &c.Which have happened in the knownWorld:| With the Calamitous Effe&s, which have resulted| from thofe Dreadful Convulfions of the Elements.IN FOUR PARTS.ColkBed from good Authorities.“ Sweet Innocence ! thou ftranger to offence,’* And inward ftorm ! He who yon’ Ikies involve*“In frowns of darknHs, ever Indies on thee“ With kind regard-’’THOMSON*.ab crnri AvrtOF SCOTLANDPrinted in the Year 1799.   ■ 'CONTENTfPhut l earthquakes. .... page iKircher’a account cf the Earthquake in Calabria in. '’1638. - * - - - " - - 3Account of the Earthquake that happened in Jamaica»a'i69». 6Of the Earthquake in Sicily in 1693. - - - * 7An account of the Great Earthquake that happened atLifbon, November the firft 1755. - - - 9Earthquakes in Calabria and Sicily, in 1783. - - 19in Scotland. - - - »i■—1 1 “ Do. .... - 2+Part II. VOLCANOES. - r • - • ayEruption of Mount AStna in Sicily 1699. - • a?Eruption of Mount Vesuvius in Italy 1794. - - - 39JCONTENTS.Par.t III. SEd STORMS An account ot the Shipwreck of a Portu juefe Snow, onher paflage from Gca to Madrar, in the year 1781-Narrative of the loft of the Halsewell Eaft-Indiaman, onthe coaft of Dorfetfhire, January 17.86.'Part IV. HURRICANES, &c.Hurricane in Jamaica, October 1780.Another Hurricane in Jamaica, 1781.Tornado in Scotland, July 1799. •§A \v 1 ul F btnc mcnao\ Nature,PART FIRST,1\p thouakes! r i'J • ' •; •, : / ^ ^ - * x '<-{' ): >■ >- >• >• »■>..>. >. >■ >. >. >. > >.. '- X^kZxiLjie *=i-  i-- -— —- .,' jACCOUNT of SEVERALRemarkable Earthquakes, ~&c.,Kirtbcr’s Accmnt oj the Earthquake in Calabria,^ in 1633.the 24th of Marrh, • e Inched (in a fn'.allV> boat) from the harbour of jV< ffir.Un Si( i!r, andarrived the fame day at the pron.oo ury of Peiorus,Onr dedination v.as for the city of Eupiiemia iniC-ibb'ia; but on account of the weather, we wereobliged to continue three days at Pelorus Atlength, wearied with the delay.' we rfclved to pro-i lecu|e our voyage; and although the fea feem.^dmore than ufually agitated, yet we ventured for-| U'atd. I he gulph of Charybdis,-which we np»Jroached, feemed whirled t und in fin h a manneras to form a vaft hollow, verging to a point in ths‘ 'V\ '( 4 )centre. Proceeding onward, snd turning my ey.to f'icunt yErna. 1 iaw i- call forth larre volumes'% c»?'nroice? of mountainous fif.e, whi h entirely cove:*;d the ifland, and blotted out even the ihores troimy view. ' This, together with the dreadful nob*and the fulphureous Perch, which was ftronglperceived, filled me with apprehend*, ns t' at forrmore dreadful cahmity was impendiro-. The lea ifell fieemed to ".ear a very cwufual appearancethofe v ho have fe en a lake in a violent fbov. er clain all covered c\er vith bublles, vfill have fontidea of ns arnations. My fufprile was fib mere.a. 1;ed by the caln ttefs ana l.renir;. c the weather; r.ca jbrteze, m*t a cloud, w iiioh might be fuppofed rpm aH nature thus it to m< t’.on. I there fort v. arr itc v'coinpar ion, that an carthqu* kc was approacl:inp; ant, after feme time, making 1-r the l;or\\tt;.all j < {ti tle djligence, wc landed at Trc;} se jPut we had fcarce ; ri 've*. at the Jefuits collepc •t! . ; city, when our ears were iUmned with an hotrid > und, re 1* rnblirg tiiat of at. infinite number c :chaiiots driven fiercely forward, the wheels ratijirand the thongs cracking. Scon after this, a n odreadful earthquake tnioed; fo that the vholtrack upon which we ft cod if* n ed to vibrate, aswe were in the fcale of a balance that continuewaving. Ibis me lien, however, fooa grew morfviolent; and being r.o longer able to keep my leadI was thrown proftrate upon the ground. Aftcic me t me, fi; uing tlnit 1 remained unhurt amt(ii||the efiera! oncuffion, 1 re(o:ved to vemtire tciafeiy; and gunning as fall as I cou’d. reached fhjit;ore. 1 did not itarch long here, till I fomU’ thboat in which 1 had landed, and. my companion |alfo. Leaving this feat of de olation, we profecuted our voyage along the coaft; and the next dapcame to Rochctta, where we landed, although th«Itl■ iI( S' )earth ft III continue.! in violent agitation*. B it wtrwere fcarce arrived at our inn, win;n we were oncemore obliged to return to our boatj and ill aboutha fan hour we fa-,v the greateit part of the town,and the inn at which we had fet op da filed to thegrout)..lt and buryina all its inhabitants beneath itsruins. Pro ceding onward in our little vdFd, weat length landed at Lop;zjum, a-caff!e mid-way be¬tween Tropaea and Jiuphciiiia the city to which wewere bound. Here, wherever l turned my eyes' .notl.ipg bat fi-enes of r..-'.n and horror appeared^towns and cafties levelled to the ground; Stromboii,though at 60 miles diffance, belching forth 11 -me*in an unufual manner, and with a noife which Icould didinelly hear. But my attention was quick¬ly turned from more remote to contiguous danger.The rumbling found of an approaching earthquake,which by this time we were grown acquainted with,alarmed us fur the confequences. It every momentfeemed to grow louder, and to approach morsnear. The place on which v/e ftooi now began tofhaks moll dreadfully; fo that, being unable to Hand,my companions and I caught hold of whateverfhrub grew next us, and fupported ourfdves in thatm inner. Alter fome me, the violent paroxyfnicelling, we a/rain flood up, in order to proiccureour voyage to tuphemi i, which lay within lighi.'In the mean rime, whi.e wn were prepa iag for thispurpofe, I turned my eyes towards the - hy, butcould fee only a frightful dark cloud, that feemec!to rrft upon the place This the more iurprticdus, as the weather was fo very letene. We waited,therefore, till the cloud was paired a way: then turn¬ing to look f r the city, it was totally funk; andnothing but a tliflnal and putrid lake was to be fetawhere it licod.( 6 )Account of the Earthoa ike that hjbpened in JumAca, ,in 1692.f'N 169;, an Earthq’iake happened in Jamaica.—Jt In two mimitts, it deftroyed the to vn of PortRoyal, at that time the capital of the ifluid; andfunk the hdijfcs in a gu oh 43 fathoms deep. Itwas attended wit-h an hollow rq-nblihg-nalfelike that 3[•of thunder; the ft rests rofe like the waves o, the i;fra; fir ft lifting up the hotifes, and then im ue.liate- »ly throwing them down into deep pits- AH thewells tlifchar>fed their w.tters v/ith the tnofl violent :vi-nta.ion. The fca burft over its bounds, and de- ■luged all that flood in its way. The nilures of theearth were in fome places fu great, that one of the 1■flreets appear id tw ice as broad as formerly, in i, i.many placer it opened and ciofe-d again; and conti»' lirmed this agitation for fame time. Of thefe open-ings, great mi fibers might be f een at once. Tnfame of th^m, the people were fwailowed uo at |jionce; in o?her», the garth caught them by themiddle, and cru-lied them to death; while oth'rs, Lmore fortunate, were f walloyed up in one chrdm,and thrown out alive by another. Other chaimswere large enough to fwalfow up the whole flreets}and others, ftill more formidable, fpo^ted up im-menfe quantities of wafer drowning lo b. as theearthquake had (pared The whole was attendedwith flenches and often five fnelis, the noife of fil¬ling mountains at a difianie. &c.; and the fvy, ina minute's time, was turned dud and reddifti, Hkea glowing oven. Yet, as great a fidT. ru- as Port-Royal was, more houf.es were, left.ftatidinw thereinthen on the whole ifland bsfides. Scarce a plantiog-l oufe, "br fttgar-houfe, was left (landing in all Jamai¬ca. A great part of them were (wallowed up, houfes;people, trees, and all, in one gap: in lieu of which,zftcfv&rds appeared great pools of water; which,[when dried up, left nothing but find, without any<nwrK t.iat ever tree or plant hjpd grown thereon.(The (hock was ic v oent, that it threw people downion their knees or their fa es as they were r&uningja!)OUt for i he Iter. Several lioufes were fhaiflediome yards out of their pla.es, and yet continuedllanding. One Hopkins h id his plantation temov.|ed Haifa mile from the pin e where it (food, with¬out any conliderabie alteration. AH the wells inthe ill aid, is well as thofe of Port-Royal, from onelit ho m to fix. or leven deep, threw their water outat the top with great violence. Above (2 milesjiirom the lea, the earth gap 'd and (pouted out, witha prodigious for, e, vaft quantities or water into theair; yet the g eatelb violences were among the(mountains and re. ks; and i. is a general opinion,that the nearer the mountains, the grea’er thefho^k-, and the caufe thereof hiy among them.Iploft of the rivers were Hopped up fsr 24 hours bykhe falling of the moimtaius; till Iwelling up, theymade themfelves new tracks and c hannels; tearingup, in their pafiagt, trees, & . After the greatlUtpck, thofe people who ci aped got. on board (hips[':i the harbour, where many continued aho; e twop.onths; the (hecks all that time being fo violent,land coming fa thick, lometimes two or three in an1 Lour, accompanied with iiightful nodes like a ruli-in? wind, or a hollow rambling thunder, with; orimftone-blifts, tl.at they durft not come afhore.ih-e confequence of the earthquake was a generala-knefs, from the noifome vapours belched forth,itvhtchfwtrpt away above 30c. psrfons.Of the E irthquake in Sici f in 1693.ty \T 1693 an ea-thq lake happened in Sicily, whichf. may iuiily be ac . o iO:ed One of the rnoft tarri de of,.,hic;i we have any account, it fhook the whole( 7 )( 3 )iHmd: and not only that, but Naples and Malta !|reci in the flv>ck. It was impotiihle for any body jthis country to keep on their legs on the dancdearth; 'nay, thofe_th.it lay oa the ground were 11led from lide to lide as on a roiling billow: hiwalls leaped from their founda ions feveral pacJfee. The milchicf it did is amazing; almoit all tjbuildings in tlie countries were thrown downty-four cities and towns, be lids an incredible nuji-ber of villages, were either dellroyed or greattiamaged. We fliatl omy inflance the fate of.C I.tania, one of the moff famous, ancient, and ilo<fiihing cities in the kingdom; the refidence of tveral monarchs, and an univerficy. This onceincus city had the greatcil Qiare in the tragedy. Tther*Aa.thon. Serrovita, being on his way tuitht»nd at the diftance of a few miles, obferved a lila.cloud like night hovering over the city; and thearofe from the mouth of Montgibclio great fpir©f flame, which fpread all around. The lea all offedtien began to roar and rife in billows; and thtwas a blow, as if all the artil!er>in the worldbeen at once difeharged. The birds flew about «toniilied; the cattle in the Acids ran crying, &flis and his companions horfes flopped Ihort, tretbllng; fo £hac they were forced to alight. Tht|were no fooner oflT, but they were lilted from tground above two palms, when calling his eyeswards Catania, he with amazement fa.r nothing bna thick cloud of duft in the air. i his was tifeene of their calamity, for of the ntagnificenr Ctania, there was not :.-e leafl footftep to be feenS. Benajutus sflures os, that of 18900 inhabitantl8.coo pertfhed therein.This and. the two ■; receding accounts are taken fro:Encjxhpacdisi Britannic* 3* E-uin. vol. 6—bAli.1in An account of the Great Earthquake, that happened atj Lf o-i. Novanher thejlrji '75 c.’ Li"II5 1 'iERE never was a finer niorninp feen than_i. the fir ft or Noven.ber (1755); the fun fhoneout in its full luftre; the whole face of tile fky wasperfectiv lerene';tn.i clear, and not the k’aft dgnaior warping or that approaching cv^nr, wnkh hasmade this once flourithino-, opulent, and popinduscity a fccne of ihc utino-i horror and d< foLnion, tx.-cept only J'uch as fep ed to alarm, Iiul fcarccly if tta moment’s tiuie to tiy from tttc general dell ruc¬tion. %‘ It was on the morning of this f tal dav, ho-fwetn the hours of nine arm ten, that ! was fatdown in my apartment, juft linifhiug a letter,when the papers and taole I was wri-mp; on be¬gan to tremble with a gentle motion, which ratherfurprized me, as I could nof per eive a breath of-wind ftirring; whiift i was rtiiecling with mvfelfwhat this ccu'd be owing to, out without hav'-ng •the lead appreheniwn or the rea, caule, the w lehdufe .began • to fh .ee from tue foundation,wiiich at fir ft 1 imputed to t.c. 1 aitling of t’everalcoaches-it* the niahiftreet whfch uiuallv pafT.-d that,vvayy at this time,' from Belem to the palacej. outon hearkening more attentively, 1 was loon unde- •cchtd, as I found it was owing .0 a (fram e Sti.Bit-fol kind of noi e under ; • id, reficnibUng the hoUlow ciitfant rumbling ot t.,under; all this pafibd inlefs than a minute, and I mui; . dels l . btoan ,to be alarnieo as it in ur. . • u.red to me, thatthis hoife might pc ifijly b-. .'ae forerunner of anearthquake, as one 1 remchih red, which hao hap¬pened about Gx or fi-vep years tgo, in tire Ifl .nd ofMadeira, commenced in the fame mauni r, thoughit did little or no damage.‘ Upon this I threw down n.y pm, md dartedupon my feet, reiaaining a moment iu fufpence^'( *0 )Tyhether 1 fliould ftay in the apartment, or runinto th e flreet, 2? the danger in both places feenitdequal, and ftiil- flattering niyfelf tnat ttlia tremormijdht produce no other effects tl’.an f'uch inconii-iferable dues as had been f it at Madeira; but in amoment I was routed f. omm) dreatn} bein j in-itantly ftunned with a molt horrid crafh, as if everyedifice in the city ■ ad tumbled down at once. Tnehaute 1 was in (hook with tuch viojcnie, titat theupper ftpries iarmed lately tfill, and though myapartment (.which was rhe fir ft floor) did- not thenfliare the fame fate, yet everthing was thrown outof :ts piacc in fuch a manner, that it was with nofma.l difficulty I kept rnv feet, and t>,peeled nothing(eh than to oe toon cruthed to deatj, as tiie ' ailscontinued rocking to and fro in tnc fri/litfuildtmanner, opening in fleeral places, large Hones (ai¬ling down on every lidc from the cracks, and theCads of mail cf the rafters Halting out from ther of. io add fo this terrifying iccuc, mu iky 111 amoment becanr.^fo gloomy, tnat I could np.vdhlin--wpSih no particular object; it was an iigyptian dark*nets indeed, fuch as might be felt; owing, no doubt,to me prodigious clouds of dull and hide, railedfrom fc violent a conci fTion, and zs Ibme reported,to fulpkureoiis exhalations, but this i cannot affirm;however, it is certain i foynd myleif si mo it ehuah-cd for near ten minutes.‘ As foon as the gioorn beaan to difp^rfe, and theviolence of the ih-ock fccmed pretty much abated,the hrft objedf i perceived in the room was a o-nun fitting on tnc floor, with an infant in herarms, all covered with duff, pale and trembling;I «ficed her how )he got hither: but her confterna-jion was fo great that file could give me no ac¬count of her chape; 1 fuppole, that when the tre-*i^r firfi began, flic ran .out cf hef o ;.n houf'c, and( 1 * )finding Kerfcif in fach imminent danger from thefalling of itones, retired into the door of mine,which was a in', oil contiguous to hen’s, for {belter,and when the fhock inert sled, which filled thedoor with dufi and rubbiiL, ran up Hairs into myapartment, woich was then open: be it as it might,tnis was no time for curiofity. 1 remember tin?poor creature afked me, it) the mmoit agony, if, Idid not think that the world was at an end; at thefame time fhe complained of being choaked, andbegged for God’s lake I would procure her a littlechink; upon this 1 went to a clolct where 1 kept a1 mge jar with water (whidh you know is foms. irr.es[ <i pretty icarce com'modiry| h, Li bon) hut finding it■ broken in pieces, 1 told r.er ifie mutt t* ,t now ihinkof quench ng her thirft, bid faving h.t life, r.s thehome was juft falling on oar heads, and if a econdIbock came, would certainly (bury us both; I bade•her take hold of my arm, ikid that. 1 would eji,fa¬vour to bring her into lyrne'fiiac:; of Seem .ty.‘ i Hi all always look upon it as a part.cular provi¬dence, tiiat ! happened on tjiis occafion to be un-drtfftd, for had I drifted my felt, as I propofed,when 1 got cu: of bed, in order to ore. draft with a/friend, i ihouid, in ad proem; it , have run intotue ftreet at the beginning or the knock, as the reftof the people in.the tioufe did, and coi.fcquenjdyhave had my bra ns dath.cu', . s .. ve:y one ofthem had; however, t c nn un: ..t uanger I \r?.s indid not hinder me from confide mi; tnatniy pn fentdrefs, only a gown and flippe-s, would render myI getting over th. ruihs aluroft impracficaMe: l had,iheretore, ftill prclcnce of mind enouga left to puton a pair of fhoes and a coat, the firli that came mmy way, which was every thing I laved, and mthisdrefs I harried down flairs, the woman with rp-jholding by my arm, and eude directly tp that end«f the ftreet that upens to the Tagus, but findiru |the paffage this way entirely blocked up with thefallen houles to the height of their fteonc; dories, ! aturned back to the other end which led into the ttn^in fireet (the common thoroughfare to the palaceand having helped the woman over a vaft heap oiruins, with no fmall hazard to my awn lite, juft as >we were going into the ftreet, as there was one wpart l could not well climb over without the aflk- utance of my hands, as well as feet, 1 ddired her rotlet go her hold, which {lie did, remaining two or |three feet behind me, at which time there fell a j>vad done, from a tonering wall, and enuhed both »1her and the child in pieces: fo difmal a iptclacie ut Iany other time would have aifedted me in the hig !- j"*ft degree, but the dread I was in of fharing thefume f-te myfelf, and the many inftances ct thefame kind which prefented themfelves all arounJ>were too iliokmg to make me dwell a moment cathis iingle objtil.‘•I had bow a long narrow dreet to pafs, wi:hthe houles on each lide four or five dories lus^h, ad-very old, the greater part already thrown cow,Or continually falling, and threatening the p.lTn- tgers with inevitable death at every ftep, numbersof whom lay killed before me, or what I thoughtfar more depiorable-^-lo bruifed and wounded tnatthey could net dir to help themfelves. For my ownpart, as deftruction appeared to me unavoidable, Ionly wilhed 1 might be made an end of at once, andnot have my. limbs broken, in which cafe l couldexpeft nothing elfe but to be left upon the fpot,lingering in ro.iery, like thefe poor unhappy wretch¬es, without receiving the kaft fuccour from any,peribn.* As fclf-prefervation, however, is the firft lawium.re, thtkfad thoughts did fo far prevail, '4.( Ij >| to make me totally de'pair. i proceeded on as fafl•i as { conveniently could, though with tl.t utntoftcaution, and having at length got clear of this hor->jrid pafTtge, I found myfeif fafe and unhurt in tl'jj #• large open ipace before St. Paul’s church, which(had been thrown down a few minutes before, and: bur icd a great part of the congregation, that was’generally pretry numerous, this being reckonedidle of the a.eft popuious parifhes in Lilb .n. Here1 Itood loine tune^ conftueripg what i (hould eo,(and nor thinking myfclf fafe in tins ' tuatioo, 1 came‘to the refolution of climbinp ovi r the ruins of the(Weft end chc church, in order to get to the riverpde, that 1 might be removed, as far as poffible,from tnc tottering houfes, in cafe of a fecond Ihook.1 ‘ Ihis, with iome difficulty, I acccmpii hed, and■|iere I found a prodigious concouife of people, of.Both ftxes, and of all ranks and conditions, amongivhocn 1 obferved feme of the principal canons ofIdie patriarchal church, in their purple robes androchets, as thtfe all go in the habit of bifhops; fe-|eriil prlefts who bad run from the altars in theiricctdotai veltments in the midft of their edebrat-ig malsj ladies half drtfl;d, and lome withoutiocs; all ttiefr, whom their mutual dangers had|ere afTembled as to a place of lafety, were on theirnees -.t prayers, with the terrors of death in thdrluntenanccs, every one ftriking his breaft, andlying out inceflamiy, M.\ft:recordia meu D'os. ■'In the midft of our devotions, the fecund great !mck fame on, little lefs violent than the firil, andimpitced the ruin of thofe buildings which hadtjen .-heady much ffiattered. The confternationv/ be.- fo univerfal, that the fhrieks and triesMiferecor'da could be diftindlly heard from thet Si. Catherine’s hill at a confiderable diftance> wuither a vaft number cf people bad like wifet\M )!retreated; at the fame time we could hear the fa!|of the p.’t.ib church there, whereby many perton'iwere f i k-d on the fpot, and others mortally wound Ied. You may judge of ttie force of this (hoikwhen j inform you, it was lb violent, toat 1 coukicarcc keep on my knees, but it was attended witlome circmriftances (fill more dreadfid than the foi-Jmer On a. fudden I heard a general outer)’, « Yhlea is coming in, we tl.ali be aii loll.’—Upon thisturning my eyes towards the river, whkh in thajplace is near four n/iles broad, 1 could perceiveheaving and (welling in a moll unaccountable manffncr. as no wind was Hiring^ in an inlunt tliere apptared , at forne ftnall dift ince, a large body cfv,at r, riling iik'e a mountain; it came on foaming amroaring, and ruihed towards the Ihore with luciaipetuoMty, that we ali immediately rau f'or oulives as fall as poflinle; many were adlualiy 1 \e):avay, and the rell above their waiif in watergood diftance from the barks. For my own part] had the uarroweft efcape, and llicuid certainly havbeen loft, had i not grafped a targe beam tiiat iaj.on the ground, till the water returned to its chaimewhich it did almoft at the fame inltant, withrapidity. As there now appeared at leaft as muc|danger from the fea as the land, and ! fcarce kneTwhether to retire lor fhelter, Itcok a fudden refclution of returning back with my cloatlis all dropping, to the area of Sr. Paul’s: here I ftood ibmtime, and oblerved the ihips tumbling and teftinabout, as in a violent Itorm; fame had broken thecables, and were carried to the other fide of tbjTaguS; others were whirled round with incredibfwiftnefs; lev.eral iarce boats \ere turned keel ujwards; and all thi wit! out any wind, which feentd the more aftonilhing. It was at the time <wtich I am now fpeaking, that tha fine new tjuu.( 1 s )ijbuilt of rough marble, an an iuimenfe expence, wasJetitirdy i ailoweu up, with all the people on it,who had fled thither foi lafety, and liad rcafon toIthink theuiielves out of danger in (uch a pla( e; atIthe fluue time a great number of boats, and fm -.11v;fl'; 1 s, aMchored near it (all likewife full of people,kvho had red t.d thither ’ ,r the fan>e.purpofe) ere% i f.va lowed up, as in a whirlpool and never morejappean d.* Thi.s lad dreadful incijer.t t did not fee withmy own eyes, as it palled three or tour Hone throws-rp r the fpot wfiCre I "hen was, but ] had the ac¬count as here given from ftveral mailers of Grips,iwho ere anchored within two or three hundreditards of the <juay, and law the whole cataflrophe.pne of them in particuiar informed me, that whenthe iecond fhock came on, he could perceive the'-'■hole city waving backwards and forwards, like thejfea when the wind fir ft begins to rile; that the agi-jption of the earth’ was fo great even under the ri-;ver, that it threw up ids large anrlior from the*mooting, which twang, as he termed it, on the fur-i'acc of the water; that immediately upon this ex-nraordinary concuffion, the river rofe at or.ce neartwenty feet, and in a moment fublided; at whichinfant he iaw the quay, with the whole ccncouifepeople upon it, fink down, and at the fame timeevery one of the boats and veflels that were near itwere drawn into the cavity, which he fuppofes in-lantly < lofi-d upon them, inafmuch as not the leaflign of a wreck was ever feen afterwards. ThisAccount you may give full credit to, for as'to theofs of the vlATcIs, it is confirmed by every body;tnd with regard to the quay, I went myfeif a fewi lays after, te convince myfeif of the truth, andould not find even the ruins of a place, where I'• !• Mi taken fo many agreeable walks, as ttis was ther( 16 )common rendezvous of the factory ;n the cool of thevci:i:;g ! fouriu it all deep water3 and in iorneparts iearctlv to be fathomed.‘ i i is is the only place l could learn which was(wallowed up in or about 'Li i bon, tbouyh I law niarnlarge cracks and hfibres in dificrent parts, and onoid phenomenon t muft not omit, which was com.immkmed to me by a tii’ ttd who had a home andwine-cellars on the other fi.le or the river, viz. thatthe d. eiling-houk being lit If terribly lhaken, whichmade all the famdy run out, there prefentiy felldo vn a vatf high rock near it that upon this theriver rofe and lubiided in the manner already men¬tioned, and immediately a great number of ifnallfifibres appeared in 1’tveral contiguous-pieces ofground, wnence there fpouted out like a jzt,dealt dlarge quantity of fine white fane!, to a prodigiousKcight.4 [ had not been long in the area of St Paul’s,when 1 felt the third ihock, which though iome-what lels violent than the two former, the lea rulh-ed in again, and retired with the fame' rapidity,!and l remained up to my knees in water, though Ihad gotten upon a 1’mail eminence at fame d.ihhicefrom the river with the ruins of feverai interse. inghoufes to break its lorce. At this time I tool: no-tk. the waters retired fo impetuoufly, that fornev IT^s were left quite dry, which rode in fe^.en fa¬thom water: the river thus continued alternatelyrufhing on and retiring feveral times together in(nch fort, that it was julfly dreaded Lilbon wouldnow meet the fame fate, which a few years ago hadbefallen the city of * Lima.‘ Perhaps you may think the prefent doleful fub-jeft here cone ucicu; but, alas! the horrors of thefjrit of November, are lufficient to fill a volume.• This happeced ia 1764.1"!j As foen as it grew dark, another fcene preferredi itfeU little kis (Locking than thole already deferib-J ed—the whole city appeared in a blaze, which wasi lb bright that I couid eailiy lee to read by it. It'may be laid, without exaggeration, it was on firei at lead in a hundred different puces at once, and; thus continued burning for fix days together, with¬out iutermiluon, or the kaft attempt being mads toI ftop its pregrefs.! ‘ I could never learn, that this terrible fire wasowing to ' any fubterraneous eruption, as fome re¬ported, but to three caukr, which all concurring at: the fame tins.*, will na.u'riiiy account for the prodi-■j giotts havock it made; the firfi of November being1 All Saints Day, a high feftival among the Portu-jj guefe, every altar in every church and chapel (lome; of which have more than twenty) was illuminatedi with a number of wax tapers and lamps, as cuffora-; ar , thefe fetting fire to the curtains and timber, work that fell with the Inock, the conflagration,i foon fpread to the neighbouring boufes, and beingi there joined with the fires in the kitchen chimuies,ij increafed to fuch a degree, that it might eahly have!j deftroved the whole ci:y, though no other cauCeI hai concurred, efpeciady as it met with no inter-] ruption.■ But what would appear incredible to you, were1 the fact lels public and notorious, is, that, a gang of. hardened villains, who had been confined. auu got: out of pritim when the wail fell, at tic firfi thock,, were bufily employed in letting fire to thole buil¬dings, whicii 11 odd fame chance of efcaping the! general ue.irueiior,." i he lire, by lome means or other, ma-r'se faidto have deflroyed the •• hole city, at ; .-aft e.crything rat was grand cr valuable in it; ana t.iedamage on this occafion is not to be eiluna.ed.( }' ‘ The whole number of perfcns that perifhed, in-|eluding thofe who were burnt, cr afterwards cruih-cd to death whiift digging in the ruins, is Juppofed,!an the low; ft calculation, to amount to more thanf.xty thoufanJ; and though the damage in other re-Ipects caniiot be computed, yet yo i may form ibmqaiid opul nr city, is n ■ w nothing but a vaft heap otjruins, that the rich and poor are at prefent upon ajevery convenichey of life and trading none able torelieve them.‘ A few days after the firft conffernatron was o-ver,! ventured down into tits city, by the fafeft waysI could pick our, to fee it there was a potjioi itj^. ofgetting any thing o,;t of my lodgings, but the ruins\yere now fo augmented by.tiie iue tire, that i wasfo far from being abie to didinguiih the individualfpot where the houfe ftood, tiiat I couid not evendiitinguilh the dreet, a mid A the mountains of frunoand t ubbiilr which role on every fide. Some dayssfier, I ventured down again with fevtral porters,who, having long p ied in th- fe parts of the town,w ere well acquainted with the fku-i ion of particularhoufesj by their aih dance, [ at laft difeovered • thefoot; but was tioou convinced, that to dig for anything there, be-Me* (he, danger of fucli aa attempt,would never anf.ver the e^pe.ice.* On both the times when I attempted to makethis fruit Id's i’earch, efpeciaHy the firlt, there camei’u:h an intolerable ftench from the dead bodies,that'a was ready to faint away, and though it didnot teem io great this ialt time, yet i; had nearlybeen more fatal to me, as ■ contr.'.ft.d a fever by it,but. of whic.-q God be pra lcd, [ loan got the bet-idea of it, when 1 all'tre you, that this extend.xtlevel, fomr thoulands of families which but the]clay i-ttorc had been eaf. in their circilm(lances,)being now fcatrered about in the fields, wanting*r. However, this made me fo-cautious for ♦heture, that I avoided pafiin^ near ceruin places,here the fteneb was fo exetflive that people begandread an infeclion: a gentleman, tok! me, thatibirfg into tits town a few days after the earth-> ike, he law feveral bodies lying in, the llreets,jime horribly niangled^ as he fuppofed, by t..e>gs, o.hers half burnt,' fome quite roafied; andjat in certain place.-, particularly near the doors] churches, the .’ lay in vaft. heaps piled one uponiiOvlier.’i ExiraSid from a Volume of Letters, puklijhed a few.'■.vrs ago b. the Reverend Mr, Davy—See Gregorys\fono~>r? of Nature vol 2nd. page 396, to 375 inch*-fecqnd edition.IEARTHQUAKES,In Calabria and Sicily, in 1783.The year 178; was fatally marked by the defola.jpt'fcof fome oi t .e moil fertile, moil beautiful, andj,oit celebrated provinces of Europe. The two Ca-iprias, with a part of Skilv, were doomed to be ame of Hie mod tremendous, and the moil fatalrthquakes that ever were known, even in thofb'•j kardc regions. The firil fhock happened .abouton, on the cth of February, and.- as fo violent:to in.-Ive alrnoil the whole of Calabria in ruin,pis was but the commencement of a iucceiiijn otIrthquakes, which beginning from the city ofnantea, on the coail of tiie Tyrrhene fea, pro«:deJ along the we Hem coait to Cape Isiparti vetuo,d up the e.ulern as far as tape D'A’.kr; luringe whole of which fpacc not a town wa.- k-tt uude-1oyed.Haring twe years repeated faocks continued to( 2° )apj^ate the affrighted minds of the inhabitants |Calabria and Sicil'', but the principal anichiejrrofe in the months af Frbruarv and March infir.'t year. For feveral months the earth continue]in an unceahng tremor, which at certain interv, ; k||creafed to violent fhocks, i’ome of which were beyndtfcriptioi\dreadful, ii.cle taocks .were fometimhorizontal, whirling like a vortex; and iome, imtby nuilations or beating from the bottom upwardand were at times lb violent that the heads oft!;large it trees a!mo;r touched the ground on eithefide. The rains, during a great part of the ttmwere continual and violent, often accompanied witlightning, and furious gu'ts of wind. All that p*ofCdibria, which lay between the sSth and 39:degrees aiTnntu a new appearance. Houfes, churc;:ts, towns, cities, and villages, were buried "n onpiomifcuous ruin. Mountains were detached froi;|their foundations, and carried to a conJiderable dii|tance. Rivers difappeared from their beds, anagain returned and overflowed the adjacent country]Streams of water iuddenly gjfhed out of the group,and fpraiig to a coniiderab.e height. Large pieceof the furr'ace of the plain, feveral acres in externwere carried dve hundred feet from their formefituation down into the bed of the river, and lef,Handing at nearlv tire diftance of a mile, furrpunded by large plta.ations of olives and mulberry treesand-corn growing as well upon them as upon thground from') which they were feparated. Amidfthefe fo nts of devadatioh, the efcapes of fome othe unhappy iuii'r.rers is exiremely wonderful. Somof the inhibiran s of houfes which were throwna conltderahie ditipmee, were dug out from their ruinunhurt, llu: tiieie m-tances were few, and thofwiio \ere lb torturme as to preferve tfieir lives iifuch lituations, were ccntcnt to purchafe exi.tcuo( )t the espence of broken limbs 2nd the mod dread-lii contulions.•I During this calarnitous feene. it is impoffible tooncti e the horrors and wretchednfs of the utih^p-■iy inhabitants. 'Tlie jaws of death were ep ned to(wallow them up; ruin had kite d nil their r fT tE-jpis, and thofe dear coniseftions to which theyinigh: have looked for coiyfrdath n in their iorro s,verc for ever buried 'if. the c.n ;-:lefs abyk. Ail wasmin and defblatioir E-.ery counttnance indjeat-dn-x extremit* of rjh.iction and ovfpair; and theJ hole ccur.try termed. J ide i. ene or undeferibabieiiiorroT,'> One of the moth rt markable to1'ns which wasifeftroyc'. v.as Cafal Nuova where the Pri< cuts Ge-• 3act Grimaldi, with more'than f ur thoufand offubjefts, per fned i» tiit Grr.e .nftant. An in-lihbuatit l.rppfnnt.g to be on the funimit of a.i|;eijilrbouriiig hrl! at the moment of the fiioek, andiioo: in« e'ainelt-ly bath to the ttfidtr.ee of his family,|.c uld lee 10 other temairs of i: than a white cloudjiUhich proceeded Iren the tnins otj' e Louies. Atlie; xtara. atxu three thouiand ptrlons were killed,jind not fewer a; R ditina ane Palma. At TerraiVueva loir thouiand tour hundred perifhed, andI'athir n ere at Sir niari. The inhabitants of Sciliait, pied irt'n^ their houfes ou the celebrated rockA 11 ;u name, . nti vit; their prince, deicended tch Hu e harhourat the loot of the hhl; but, in ti,e.our{e of the rigi a Hupendous wave, which is• ili ci to have been dtiven three nules over land, onJts return iwtpt a ay the unfortunate prince, withwu the uknti four hundred and !«. venty-three ofiubjrbt.' It !!• comeu ee that not tefs than for-1J Uicuianu pcrlons perifhed by this earthquake.CVej Econ. oj nature^ vol- 2nd,ta&c 375 *0378. i«c/.Er.rt'.'quakes in ScrtlamhA t-THO this kingdom is happily free fr*XX the dseadful calamities experiencednv-ny other parts of the world, from thefe teihle convylfions ol nature, yet occanonal fhocof earthquakes haVe been felt in Scotland, withth. ;e vc rs. _ William Creech, tfq in Ids thsIf ter <o Sir J. Sinclair, annexed to the SiatijtisU. writ if EJinbiirgh, (Vol* V!. p. 6 24)atncother phytic?! phenomena, cmnnerates the folio)ing: Upon the 16th Jnne, 17S6, a fmart fhockan earthquake was felt at Whitehaven, in On mbland, which extended to the 1fle o? Man am.' 1b n, and was ado felt in rhe SW. parts of ScctharUpon the nth of Aug. 178-% a very alarm!11 rclc of an earthquake was felt about two o’clo. M. in the N. of England, viz. NorthumberlCumberland, and in Scotland, acrcfs the fflarand a- far N. as ArgylUbire; and in all thefe placat the fame inftant of time. This Took extend,aberve 150 miles from S. to N. and icofr mto W.—the 25th Jan. liS", the river Iviot became luddehly dry, and continued fo f.hours, and then flowed with its ufual fulnei‘‘ On the 26th jan. 1787, a fmart fhock ofearthquake was felt in the parifhes of Compile atSirathblane, jo miles N. ofGlafgovv, and aboutA M. A rufhing noife was heard to precede tihock from the SE. The right preceding tiearthquake, a piece efground mar Alloa, on whia tnill was built, fuddtnly funk a foot and a half ’•‘‘On 11 urfday. 5th Nov. 1789, bet ten 5 amiP. M, a fmart fhock of an earthquake, was fe^tCrieff, at Comrie, and for many miles round rhcliflnd, which is about 55 miles from EdinburghAt Mr. Kcbertfcn’s houfe of Lawefs, a rumblirnoife Iffediltant thunder had been beard at inte..( 23 )vsls fcr two rrcnilis; ami at the time of the Thocfc^aVcifs like the difchartre of dillant artillery wasidiftircliy heard. Mr. Dttndas and Mr. Bruce ot.Edinburgh, were (landing before the fire in thedrawingroom, and they described the ihcck, as(if a great maliet had fuddenly Ih uck the founda¬tion of the honfe with violtnre. c\t the village ofCcrr.rie, the inhabitants leit their houlrs and rahto the open fields.”—<4 On the i ith Nov. A. M.in the (ame place, another (liock wrs fel t, ich(was much more violent than that of the 5th,. Iti was acconinanred with a hollow rumbling noifie.|.The ice on a piece cf water near the ho me of La-tv ers, v as (hivered to atoms.” M? Creech, af¬ter quoting front the London Ch: o ;c!e. the ac-nco’.-nt of the eartl quake at Bcrgt San bep cro, on!!the 3Cth of Sept. 1 7 "9, sdds, “ It is w n < x r,.e--idinary, that on the fame dar, nea.r 3 P M. two'!.cv three diflin-il fhocks were felt at iiie hou e c ftlPar'on’s Greer, within a mile of Edinburgh. The:honfe is fituated on the . fid- cf Arthur’s heat,Iw t.ich is Cftmpofcd cf an imntenie bin: ?rai:ire Se-iivera! viftors were in the heuie to nine with the(family, and th* whole compai » ran down flairs•’.from the drawing-room, and cnct the fervants from■he kitchen, in the lobby,, equally alarmed at whatSiad happened. They deferibed the fenlaticr , asif the hohfe had received two or three violent•plows in the foundation, fo that all the furnitureifhook.”—<c Cn the 10th Nov. 1792 three reptat-iljrd fhocks of an earthquake accompanied wiih a^hollow rumbling node, like tha^ of oiilant thunder,Iwere felt at Loch Rannoch, in Perdilhire.” Mr.Creech concludes his account of tbefe and ott erphyfical-phenomena, with an extradd of a letter.1 rom “ Com.rie, in Perthfijre,” datedNov 30thtji 792,” from which we (hall only quote the fadfs. dilated. We have of latej been greatly alarmed with( 24 )frvera! vary ferere Hiocks of an earthquake. Thvers n;ore fenfible and alarming, than 'anyformerly, and the node attending them was ucommonly loud and tremulous aj^peared pbobly more, fo, from the fiiihids of the atmofph&rand *hr rev'Tb-.-ra ion of the ftirrounding mou:if drs. I*he houles vv;rc greatly Qiaken, and tfurniture toffed from its place. The weather hbeen uncommonly variable, rnd changed frolugh gufis ' S ind, to a deep cairn, a few‘days htfere the fevertff fliocks of the earthquake. Ttair was n-oifl and hazy, and the clouds feerrcharged with 1 ftrichy ”I nc.chpacdia Perlhcr.fis, voK ~th EA>Tvc Sheens of an Earthquake, (Cinilar to thrwhich began at the fame place feme years ago} ha’Ibeen lately felt at and rear Ccir.rie in berthflorno on the i ytb of January, and the other on t24th of February.The motion of the Earth vas from Weft to Eaand laft^d about t\'o feccncs, but the .^ubterrancus noife which accompanied, it continued muc|longer.Sci/J Magazine for March y 179FINIS.Awful Phenomenaof NaturePART SECOND,VOLCANOS.r -a- i^^«cwcs-«=c8a»====i^3 gj> «=»=.s==i=«i=«»i,,S^rfIAN ACCOUNT*OP TWOGREAT and DREABFUL.Volcanic Eruptions, &:c.Eruption qf Mount Etna in Sicily, 1^.99.MANY ftriking remains of the great erupti¬on in 1669 are ftill to hefeen, and will longi ntinue as memorials of that dreadful event whichiverwhelmed Catania, and all the adjacent country.Tremendous earthquakes fliook the iflaudj and loudi jhterraneous bellowings were heard in the moun-i tin. During feme weeks, the fan ceafed to appear,|;nd the day feemed changed into night. Borelli, whoi?as a witnels to thefe terrible phenomena, (ays, thatit length a rent, twelve miles in length, was openedt the mountain, in feme places of which, when»ey threw down ftones, they epukj not hear them(reach the bottom, I’rrnir-g rccks fixtv palms ir Ilergth, were thrown to the dii'tance of a mite, 3nt|gItfftr ftores were carr.-.J thiee milts. After themolt violent ftruggles, and a lhaking of the w holeifland, an immenfe torrent of lava guibed from thtrent, and fprung cp into the air to the height ofixty palms, whence it poured down the mountainand overwhelmed every ©bjeft in its way in onpremifeuous ruin.This deftruciive torrent, which burft from t!fide of j3Etna at a place tailed hicini, rufhed tmpctuoufly againft the beautiful medmain of Mortpfieri, and pierced into thue ground to a ccnfiderabldepth; then dividing and furroundirg the pnourtain; it united again on the forth fde, and pciue*defolation upon the adjact nt countr}'. The pro;grefs of the torrent was at f,;fl at the rate ci fe\e:|miles a day, but it afterwaids tcck four days ttravel fixteen; Wherever h dirtied its courfe, thwhole appearame of nature was charged, ftvtrthills were formed in places which were former]valleys, and a large lake v as fo entirely filled xby the melted mafs, at ret to leave a veflige remair.ing. In its ccurfie it deictnded upon a vineyard, belonging to a convent of Jefuits, which was fcJmeupon an ancient and probably a very thin layer tJava, with a numbei of caverns and crevices urdejt. The liquid n.afs entering into theft excavationIcon filled them t p3 and by degrees bore tp thvineyard, tV*hich in a fi'ort time, to the great aflcnifliment of the fpeflators, began to moveavajland was carried by the torrent to a cofifiderabl Idiftarce. In 1770 feme remains of this vincyar |were flill to be iten, but the greater part ol it wajentirely defiroyed.Jn vain did the terrified inhabitants of Catanirecur for prctefdcn to the ndraculcus veil, or cjII1( 29 )■ ptft defenc; from the lofty Wi’ls of their city. Af~liter deftroyinJ leverjI convent':;, churches, and pil¬lages, this fiery current directed its courie to Ca-jtanii, where it poured impetuouliy over tne ram¬parts, which are near iixty feet in height* and co-jveretl up five of its baftions, with the intervening,!curtainr. After laying wafts a great part of thisbeautiful c:ty, and entirely deftroymg feveral volu-jable remains of antiquity, its further progrefs wasflopped by the ocean, over whole b.-.nks it poured:its deftruftive current. In its courfe from the rent.in the mountain, till its arrival in the foa, it is fai4;to have totally delboyei the property of near thirtyithoufand perfons.E'-uptixi of Mmiit. Fjfavktt in lidy, 1794.liT'lIE mountain had been remarkably quiet forfeven months before the late eruption, norMiif tne ufual fmoke iffue from its crater, but at-|tt;mes it emitted fmall clouds of fmoke that floated,,jjki the air in the fhaps of-little trees, [t was re*Unwked by the Father Antonio di Petrizzi, a capu-|chin friar (who printed an account of the late erup¬tion) from his convent ciofe to t'ue unfortunate,jtown of Ferre del Greco, that for lome days pre-jetding thi-s eruptionj_a thick vapour was feen tojfurrounJ the mountain, about* a quarter of a mile;benearh its crater, and it was obferved. by him and.others at the lame time, that both the fun and themoon had often an unufual reddilh caft,The water of the great fountain at Torre del.Greco began to decreafe feme days before the erup¬tion, fo that the wheels of a corn mill, worked by; that water, moved very {lowly; it was neceflkry in! ill the other wells of the town and its neighbour-I'.io ji to lengthen the ropes daily, in order to reach( 3° >the water; anti fome of the wells bscame e!rAlthough no oil of the inhafcirauts were fcuhblethis phenomentjn, not orie of them feetns to havfutotifltd the tiue cuufe of it. flight days alfo bfore the eruption, a i.nan and two boys, being invineyard above Terre del Greco faud preciiely cthe fpet where one of the new mouths openciwhence the principal current of.lava that deftroyethe town iffued) were mneh alarmed by a fudde.pufF of fmok* which iffued from the earth cloie tthem, and was-attended with a flight exploflon.Had this circumflance, with that of the fubtcraneous noifes. heard at Refina for two days btfothe eruption (with the additional one of the dejereafe of water in the wells) been communicatedthe time, it would have required,no.great forefigto have been certain than an eruption of the volt dso was near at hand, and that its force w..s dir.eJted particularly towards that part of the mountainOn the 12th of June 1794, in the morning, therwas a violent fall of rain, and foon after the inhcbitants of Refina, lituated directly over the ancier.jtown of Herculaneum, were fenfible of a rumblilubterrancous noife, which was not heard at Npier.From the month of January to.the month cMay, the atmofphere had been generally cairn, athere was continued dry weather, la the monof May there was a little rain, but the weather w.junufually fuitry. For fome days preceding.the erutton the Duke della Torre, a learned aard ihgei©us nobleman, who publiihed twokrters upon t!fubject of the eruption, obfer.ved by his elcdhomters that the atmofphtre was charged in ex cwith the ek&nc ilui.l, and continued ib for lev*ral days during tire eruption.About eleven o'clock on the nujlit of the ) 21r ( 3‘ )of June, the inhabitants of Naples wire all lenlibleof a violent (lioclcofan earthquake; the undulatorymotion was evidently from ea t to weft, and appear¬ed to have lafted near half a minute. The fky»which had been quite clear, was foan after coveredwith black clouds. The inhabitants of the townsand villages, which are very numerous at the footof Vefuvius, felt this earthquake ftill more fenfi-bly, and fay, that the (hock at firft was from thebottom upwards, alter which followed the undulati¬on from eaft- to weft. This earthquake extendedall over the Campagna Felice; and the royal palace atGaferta, which is fifteen miles from Naples, and oneof the moft magnificent andfolid buildings in Europe(the walls being eighteen feet thick) was lhaken infuch a manner as to caufe great alarm, and all thechamber bells ranov It was likewife much felt atiieneventum, about thirty miles from Naples; andat Ariano in Puglia, which is at a much greaterdiftance; both theie towns, indeed, have been of¬ten aftlicled with earthquakes.On Sunday the 15th of June, foon after teno’clock at night, another fhock of an earthquakewas felt at Naples, but did not appear to be quitefo violent as that of tho nth, nor did it lad folong; at the fame mon-ent a fountain of bright tire,attended with a very black fmoke and a loud re¬port, was feen to ifiue, and rife to a great height,from about the middle of the cone of Veluvius;foon after another of the fame kind broke out atfome little difiance lower down; then, as is fuppof-ed by the blowing up of a covered channel fullof red hot lava, it had the appearance as if the lavahad taken its courfe diredly up the fteep cone ofof the volcano. Frelh fountains fuccecded one a-nother hallily, and all in a dirc£t line tending, forabout a mile and a half down, to . ards the towns of, t(' 3* )itefina and Torre del Greco. Sir WiiUaoj H'vnion could count fitteen of them4 but bei^ves -.hewere others obfcured by the fmoke. It icenj’ pbable, that all thefe fountains ©f fire, fr-'ni theexaff line, proceeded from oie fl e;long fiffure down«s or tbeing in fueband the famemountain, and that the lava and o;h;r voicarxmatter forced its way out of the wldeil parts oft!crack, and formed there the little mountains acraters that will be deferibed in their proper plaIt is impofllble that any defeription can give an iduf the blazing feene, or of the horrid noifes th:jAttended this great operation of nature. It wasmixture of the ioudeft thunder, with inceffant r-1ports, like rhofe from a numerous heavy artilleraccompanied by a continued hollow murmer, likthat of the roaring of the o can during a viokrftcrmj and, added to thele wrs another biowinnoife, like that of tRe afeending of a large flig^"cf fliy-rockets, or that which is produced by the aation of the enormous bellows on the furnace of tbCarron iron foundery in Scotland. The frequerfalling of the huge flones-.and fcoriac, which werthrown up to an incredible height from fomeof Usnew mouths, one of which having been fince mcrfured by the Abbe Tata was ten feet high, anthirty-five in circumference, contributed undoubtedly to the concufiion of the earth and air, whit<kept all the houfesat Naples for feveral hours inconftant tn mor, every door and window llxakinand rattling inctflantiy, and the bells ringingThis was an awful moment! The fky, from a hrighfull moon and llarlight, began to bs obfeured; thmoon had prcfervly the appearance of being in a.rcl.'pfe, and foon after was totailv loft in obfeurit)Ihc mnrmer «*f the prayers aaid lamentations ofKtSmc^qus, populace fcrmfng various pro:ciuons-( 33 )land parading in the flreet?, added to the horror:!As the lava did not appear to have yet a fufHcienta?ent. and it was now evident that the ea’thquakesialready felt had been cccafioned by the air an<i'jfiery matter corfimd within the bowels of the'mountain, and probably at no fmall depth (conti-idering the extent of thofe earthqcal.esj bir WU-iliam recommended so the cc mpany that was withilhim. who be^in to be much alarmed, rather to goan l view the mountain at fome greater diftance, and; in the open air, than to remain in the houfe, which::was on the fea tide, and in the part of Naples thatis nearcft and mo ft expo fed to Vefuvius. They ac-ecordingly proceeded t<? Pofiiipo. and viewed the con*i;flagration, now become {fell more confiderable,t from the fea lide under that mountain; but whetheri'from the eruption havirg increafed, or frora the' loud reports ef the volcanic explosions being re-: peated by the mountain behind them, the noife wasirmuch louder, and more alarming than that they1: had heard in their t:rfl portion, at ieaft amile near-Ier to Vefuvli's After fome time, and which wasabout two o’clock in the morning r the 16th, hav¬ing obterved that toe lavas ran i-y abundancf,.freely, and with.great velocity, 1 ?viag made a con.fiderablt progre's toward R.lina, the to vn whichit fis ft threatened, and that the fiery vapours whichhad been confined had now free vent through many' parts of a crack of n o< e than a mile and a half inlencrt'o, as was evident fro n the quantity of ihflam-ea matter and .dock nuice, which continued toiffue from the new mouths above tnentioned, with¬out any interruption, our author concluded that atNaples all danger from earthquakes, which hadbeen his greateft appreheniion, was totally removed,and he returned to his former fiation at St. Lue^i at Naples,( 34' )All t¥ns time there was not the fmalieft appear* ^re or fmol.e irom the crater on the fummifVeluviu?; bnt the black fmoke and afhes ifllicontlnuaily from Co many new mouths, or cratformed an enormous and denfe body of clouds ell!the whole mountain, and which began to crieeof being replete v ith the eletfric fluid, by exhiiing flafhes rf that fort of zig zag lightning, wt|in the volcanic language of the country is calferilli, and which is the conftant attendant onmoft violent eruptions.Sir William Hamilton proceeds to remark,, t!during thirty years that he had refided at Napiand itv which fpace of time lie had been witnefsi!many eruptions of Vefuvius, of one fort or othjhe never faw the cloud of fmoke replete with tjeleitric fire, except in the two great eruptionsli1767, that of 1.779, and duiing this more fortdable one. The electric fire, in ihe year 17that played conflantly within the enornic-us blicloud over the crater of Vefuvius, and feldom qcted it, was txaflly fmilar to that \vhj< h is prodted, on a very fmalf fcale, by the conduffor ofelefirical machine communicating with an infultplate of glafc, thin'y fpread over with metallic iings, &c. when the define matter continues to piover it in zig sag lines without quitting it. He vnot fenfible of any noife attending that operaticin 1779; whereas the difeharge of the ekftricmatter from the volcanic, clouds during this erup!on, and particularly the fecond and third dajcaufed explofions like thofe of the loudeft thunde jand indeed the ftorms raifed evidently by the fopower of the volcano, refembled in every refp«<all other thunder-florms; the lightning falling ar.tUftroying every thing in its courfe. The houl•f the Marquis of Berio at S% jorio; ftuated at th( 35 )foot of Vcfuvius, during one #f thefe volcanic ftorrr *wis firuck with lightning^ which having (batteredmany doors aud windows, and damaged the furni¬ture, left tot fome time a ftrong fmdl of fjlphur in.the rooms it p::(Ted through. Out of thefe giganticand volcanic clou Is, befiues the lightning, both du¬ring this eruption and that of 1779, tne authoradds, he had, with many others, feen balls of tireiffue, and fome (jf • conft Jerable magnitude, whichburftiBg in the air, produced nearly the fame efteftas that from the alr-baloons in fre-works, the elec.-trie fire that came out having the appearance of theftrpents with which thofe fire-work biloons are of¬ten filled. The day on which Naples was m thegreateft danger from the volcanic clouds, two hunflballs of fire, joined together i y a fmall link like achain-fitot, feif cloie'ro hts Caf.no’ at Po!;lipo; theyfeparated, and one fi 11 in the vineyard above thehoufe, and the other in the fea, fo cloft: to it thathe heard the fpUfh in the |eater. The AbbeTata, in his printed account o? this eruption, men¬tions an enormous ball of this kind which flew outof the crater of Veiuvius while he was (handing onthe edge of it, and whLh burft in the air at Cornsdiflance form the mountain, Icon after whkh heheard a ncife like the fall c f (hones, , or of a heavy(bower Of hail. During the eruption of the 15that night, few of the inhabitants of Naples, fromthe dread, of earthquakes* ventured to go to theirbeds. The eommon p-ople were either emp oyedm devout procefilons in the llreets, or were fleep-.ing on the quays and open places; the nobility andgentry, having caufed their horfes to be taken fromtheir carriages, dept in them in the fquares dopen places, or on the high roads jud ojt of thstown. JFor feveral days, whUt u .. v oamc Ltoicvrsof thunder and lightniag 1;. ted, tue Ud at• - : /:1? )A'e volenno, both on t’ e fea fide and. tjiras foot' ofSonoma litie. were ofteir fenfibfe of a tremor inearth, as well as of the concuffions in the air,at Naples only the earthquakes of the 12th a15th of June were diltir&ly and univerlally^ftthis fair city :ou'd trot certainly have ref.fted, hnot thole earthquake's been fortunately of a ikeduration. Thoughout this eruption, which connued in force about ton da* the fever of tl|mountain, as has been remarked in former eruptonr, Ihcwed itfelf to be ;n feme mealme periodicand generally was moft violent at the break of daat noon, at midnightAbout four o’clock in the morning of the i6tthe crater of Vefuvius began to fhew kgns ol beinopen, by fomc Mack ImoJce iffhin:;i; out of it; anat day-break another fmoke,*tinged with red, iffiing from an openino; near the crater, but on thother f;dfe of the mountain, and faciftg the towof Ottaiano, fhewed that a new mouth had openethere from which a conltderable lire am of lava ifFutd, and ran with great velocity through a woowhich it burnt; and having run about three milein a few hours it flopped before it had arrived at the!vineyards and cultivated lands. The craftr, and athe conical part of VtfuviuS, was fc.cn involved idclouds and darknefs, and fo it remained for ieveralkdays; bat above thtfe clouds, although of a great!height, frefh columns of fenoke were feen from th«rater, rifing furioufly fliil higher, until thewholmafs remained in the ufual torm of a pine-tree;,and in that gigantic trials of heavy clouds the ferilli,cr volcanic lightniag", was frequently vikble, evein the day time. About five o’clock in tl e mor¬ning of the 16th, the lava which had fir ft brokervout from the feveral new mouths'on the feuth fideof the caeunuin, h,.d reached, the fea, aad wast >' *k running into it,l',2vii>g overwhelmed, burnt, and de-i ftroyed the greateft part of Torredel Greco, the prin-: cipal dream of lava having taken its coarfe throughI the very center of the town. They obferved fromI Naples, that when the lava was in the vineyards inI its way to the town, there ifTued of'en, and in dit^Terent parts of it, a bright -p*!e flame, and verydifferent from the deep red ot the lava-, this wastoccafioned by the burning of the trees that fcp-Ipoyted the vines. Soon after the beginning of thiseruption, allies fell thick at the foot ot the moon,.ijtain, all the way from Portici to the Torre del Gre-x©; and what is remarkable, although there '»?rednotat th.,t time any clouds in the air, except thofelof frnoke from the mountain, the aflies V'ere wet,ifand accompanied with large drops of water, which:iv ere to the talle very halt; the road, which is pav-led5 was as vet as if there had been a heavy fhowt,rIpf rain. Thofe afhes were b^ack ana coarfe, likelithe land of the lea-fbore, whereas thofe that felll|there, and at Naples feme days after, were of alight-grey colour, and as fine as Spanifh Inufl', ortoewder bark, d hey contained many laline particles;(hofe allies that lay cm the ground, txpolcd to thei-urning !un, had a coat of the white If powder on theirurfiice^ which to the tafle was extremely fait anti: mngent. In the priruafl a-count of the eruptiony l.manuti Scotti, doctor of phyilc and proftfforf philofophy in the univerilty of Napies;. he fup-oles (whieh appears to be highly probable) that^he water which accompanied the fall of the afhest the beginning of the eruption, was produced byic mixture of the inflammable and dephlogifficat-air.By the time that the lava had reached the fea,.tween five and fix o’clock in the morning of the5th) Yefuvius was te completely Involved in( 3S: )darknefs, that the violent operation or* nature fwas going on there could no longer be difcernevand fo it remained for feveral days; but the dreadfui noife, and the red tinge on the clouds over thtoo of the mountain, were evident figns of' the aftvity of the fire underne tth The lava ran 1{lowly at Torre del Greco after it had reached tlfea; and on the 17th of June in the morning, icourfe was fiopped, excepting that at times a littrivulet of'liquid fire ilTtfd from under the fmokifcori-.e into the fea, and caufed a biffing noife, ara white fmokej.at other times, a quantity of iarjifcoriae were puflied off the furface of-the bodythe lava into the fea, difeovering that it was redbunder that furfacej and even to the larer endAuguft the center of the thickeft pnrt of the la-that covered the town retained its red heat. Tbreadth of the bva that ran into the fea, aformed a new promontory there, after having J|ftroyrd the greateft part of the town of Torre clGreco, having been exaflly meafured by the dadella Torre, is of Englifh feet 12C4. Its height abothe lea is twelve feet, and as many feet under wter; fo that its whole height is t venty-four feet;extends into the fea 626 feet. Tbe fea water wboiling : s io a cauldron, where it waflied the fcof this new formed promontory: and although cauthor was at lead a hundred yards from it, obfeing that the lea fmoaked near his boat, he put !jhand into the water, which was literally {laidand by this time his boatmen obferved thatpitch ftom the "bottom of the boat was melting fc;and floating on the furface of the Tea, and thatboat began to leak; he therefore retired haflfrom this {pot, and landed at fome diftunce from thot lava. The town of Torre del Greco contaii ‘about-18^00® inhabitants, all of whom (exceptassail*s:i( 39’ )‘bout 15, fKo from either age cr infirmity could notbe moved, and were overwhelmed by the lava intheir houfes) efcapcd eitker to Gufiei-a-marejwhich.was the ancient Stabiaej or to Naples; butthe rapid progrefs of the lava was fnrh, after It had£!3ttred its courle Irom Refina; which tovvn it fir ftthreatened, end had joined a fr.tfh lava that iffuedfrom one cf the new mouths in a vineyard, abouta mile from the town, that it raxi like a torrent ore rthe town of Tor: e del Greco, allowing the unfor¬tunate inhabitants fcarcely time to have their lives;their goods and effects were totally abandoned, andindeed feverrj of the inhabitants, whofe houfes hadbeen furoun'ded with lava while they remained inthem, d’eaped from them, and laved their lives thefo lowimr day, by coming out of the tops of theirhoufes, and walking over the fcoriae on the furfaceof'the redhot lava. -.Five or fix old nuns were ta¬ken out of a convent in this manner, on the i<5thof June, and carried over the hot lava; their ftupi-dity was fueh, as rot to Itave been the leaft alarm¬ed, or fenlible of their danger: one of upwards ofninety years of age was found actually warming her-felf ai a point of redhot lava, which touched thewindow of her cell, and which £he laid was verycomfortable; and though now apprized of theirdanger, they were ftill very unwil ing to leave theconvent, in which the had been fl.ut up almoftfrom their infancy, their ideas being as limited asthe {pace r: ey inhabited. Having been defined topack up whatever they had that was mod valuable,they all loaded themfelves with bifeuits and (wcet-mcats, and it was but by accident it was difeoveredthat they had left a Turn cf money behind them,which was recovejed for them.The lava paffed over the center and bed part ofthe town;, no part of the cathedral remained abote( 40 %it, except the upper part of a fquare brick towerin which were the bdis; and it is a curious circumfiance, that thole bells, although they were neithercracked nor melted, were deprived of their tone amuch as if they had b^n cracked. When the lavfir ft entered the lea it threw up the water to a pro.digicus height; a id particularly when two points olava met and indoled a poo! of water, that .waistwas thrown up with great violence, and a loud re¬port: at this, time, as well as the day after alfo.greaf many boiled filii were feen floating on thefurface of the fea.The lava over the cathedral, and in other parriof the town, is- laid to be upwards of forty feet inthlcknefs; the general height of the lava duringits whole courfe "'as about twelve feet, and in femeparts not lefs than a mile in breadth.When Sir William fiamilton yifited it on theli y.h of June, the tops of the houfes were jui! via¬ble here and there in lome parts, and the timberswithin ftill burning caufed a bright dame to ifluejcut of the furface; in other parts, the fulphiir andfairs tx! aled in a white fmoke from the lava, forming a white or ydlow (ruft on the f orioe round thefpots where - it iffued with the greateft force. Heoften heard little explofions, and faw that theyblew up like little mines, fragments of tfte Icoriaeand aftes into the air; rheie he fuppofes to havebeen cccafioned either by rarefied air in confinedcellars, or, perhaps, by fmall portions- of guopow¬der taking fire, as few in that country are without agun and fome little portion of gunpowder m theish-oufe*. As the church feafts thefe are ufually at¬tended with fireworks and crackers, a.firework-maker ot the town had a very great quantity of fire¬works ready made for an approaching feaft, ancfome gunpowder, all.of which had been lhu< up ir( 4i )'fjis briufe bv the lava, a part of wlfich,had tvr.n cn-£e?A!ci one of the. inoais; yet he actually faved ali idsIreworks and gunpowder fome days after, by car-iryirrg them fafdy over the fcoriae of the lav-j, ;Ieit was red hot underneath. The heat in the ftrectslof the town, at this timj, was £b great as to rifethe thennomeur to very near one hundred degrees,and dole to t!;t hot lava it roll* much higher.. SiriWilliam remarked in his way home, that there wasa much greater quantity of the petroleum floating:lon the furface of thdea, and ditfufing a very flrongand offenflve fmell, than was ufual; for at all timesi in calms, patches of this bituminous oil are to beTeen floating on the furface of the fea between Por-iitici and Naples, and particularly oppolite a villageSi called Pietra Bianca. The minute afhes continued. falling at Naples; and the mountain, totally oblcur-j ed by them, continued to alarm the inhabitantsi wit 1) repeated loud explofions.On WednefJay June xU, the wind having forai fhort fpace of time cleared away the thick cloudfrom the top of Vefuvius, it was now diicovered1 that a great part of its crater, particularly on thej) w,e(l fide oppoflie Naples, had fallen in, which itc probably did about four o’clock in the morning ofjj that day, as a violent fhodc of an. earthquake wasi* felt at that moment at Refina, and other parts fitu*a ated at the foot of the volcano. The clouds ofj fmoke, mixed with the afhes, were of fuch a den-j fity as to appear to have the greatefl: difficulty, in■4 forcing their paffage out of the now widiy extended1 mouth of Vefuvius, which, fince the top fell in, isdtr fed bed as not much (hort of two miles in circum-,fcrence. One cloud heaped on another, and fuc-; ceeding one another inceffantly; formed in a fewhours fuch a gigantic and elevated column of the^ darkeft hue over, the mountain, as feemed to threa-( 42 )ten Naples with immediate deAru&ion, havilfat o»e time been bent over the city, and appearito be much too mafive and ponderous to rein*!long fui'pended in the air; it w«s, befides, repklwith the ferilli, or volcanic lightning, which vftronger than common lightning.Vefuvius was at this time completely covered,were ail the old biack lavas, with a thick coatthofe fine light-grey alhes already fallen, which ga f;it a cold and horrid appearance; and in eomparik|<of the abovementioned enormous mafs of cloudlwhich certainly, however it maj contradift our idtlof the extenfion of our atmofphere, role many niilJlabove the mountain, it appeared like a molehilialthough the perpendicular height of Vcfuviujifrom the level of the fea, is more than three thoiltland fix hundered fert. The abbe Braccini, as afljtpears in his printed account of the eruption dMount Vefuvius in ttfgi, meafured with a quadrarHthe elevation of a mafs of clouds cf the fame naturtUw-hich. was formed, over Vefuvius during, that greallieruption, and found it to exceed thirty miles i Iheight. Dr- Scotti, in his printed account of thiiieruption, fays, that the height of this threat Ining cloud of firtoke and alhes, meafured fronj.Naples, was found to be of an elevation, of thirt |degrees.The ftorms of thunder and lightning, attends,at times with heavy falls of rain and allies, , caufin;the moll dellrudtive torrents of water and glutinoumud, mixed with huge hones, and trees torn up b>the roots, continued more or le ts to afflict the inha¬bitants on both fides of the volcano until the -;th*oJuly, when the lait torrent deitroyed many humdi-rd acrt» of cultivated land, between the towns oTorre del Gv to and Torre dell’ Annunziata. Som'oi ihefe torreuu, both.on the lea fide and the Serarulhing noifej and fonic of them, after havitigiforced their way through the narrow gullies of themountain, rofe to toe height of more than twentyfeet, *'u1 were near half a mile in extent. TneimuJ, of whiclt the torrents were compofed, beinga kind of natural mortar, completely cafed up and;;ruined fome thouland acres of rich vineyardE; forit loon becomes fo hard, that nothing lels than a laudable curiolityof our author induced himIto go upon Mount Vefuvius, as foon as it was con*.Jfiftent with any degree of prudence, which was not■ "Until the 30th; of June, and even then it was at¬tended with lome riik* i’he crater of Vefuvius,■lexcept at Ihort intervals, bad been continually ob*feared by the volcanic clouds from the jot i} andiwas fo on that day, with frequent flaihsi of light-11 ning playing in thole clouds, and attended as uluala with, a node like thunder; and the One allies were4 m falling on, Vefavms,. but itill more on the8 mountain ofSomma. hir William went up theI umal way by Retina, and obferved, in his waythrough that village, that many of the ftones of thepavem’ent had been loof«ied, and were derangedby the earthquakes,, particularly by that of. thel.8th which attended the failing- in of the crater ofci: the volcano, and which, had been fo violent as tothrow many people do.vn, and obliged all the in¬i' habitants of Retina to qpit their houfes haftihytowhich they did not dare return for two days. The1 leaves of all the vines were burnt by the alhes thathad fallen on them, and many of the vines tbem-fefves were buried under the a£hesv and greatbranches of the trees that fupported them had been' turn o.i by. their weight, in ihort, nothing buti r.um and defplation. Was to be fven- i adies atcan break it up.f44 )the foot of the mountain ''ere ah ni-t to? or t"finches thick on the furface of the earth, butp. oporticn as he afeended, their thicijrjefs incree.d to fev.eral feet, no lefs than nine or ten in fvparty (o that, the furfaceofthe oii rugved lavthat bef./i s was almof!: imprafiitabie, was nowcome a otrfeft plain, over wh.ch he walked wr!the gteatefr e-ue. The allies were of a light grcolour, and exceedingly fine, fo that by the foflops being marked on them as on fnow, he learthat three flnall parties had been up before him.law like wife the track of a fox, which appeared :have been quite bewildered, to judge from the mny turns he had made. Even the traces of lizirc ijand other little anim Ty and of infedis-, were vifiblon theie fine a he?. Sir William and hi; com panon afcendecl to the fpot whence the lava of the ijtfirfl i:lucd, and followed the courfeof it, which wafl'ill very hot (although cowed with fuch a thiccoat of afhes) quite down to the fea at Torre deGreco, which is more than live miles. It was nopoGIale to gtt up to the great crater of Vefuviusnor had any one vet attempted it. The horriichafms that exitdr j from the Got were the lateeruption firft took place, in a flrait line for near,two miles towards the fra, cannot be imagiThey fennei! vallies more than two hundred feet!deep, and from half a mile to a mile wide; andwhere the fountains of fiery matter exified du¬ring the eruption, were little mountains wi h deepllcraters. Ten thoufand men, in as many years^could not make fuch an alteration on the Tee ofVefiuvius. Except the exhalations of jbdphurousand vitriolic vapours, which broke cut from differ-ent of the line abovemeotioned, and tinge 1i 5 0the fiirf-.ee of ti e alhes and fcoriae in thofe partswith either a deep or pale-yellow, with a.redar.li( 45 )kb re colour, or a bright white,'' arul in iome partslilkh a deep gretn and azure blue [io that t he wholeipgether ! ad the effcft of an iris) all had the a; *jearance of a famiy defert. Our ad-emurcrs thenlent on the topofleven of the moft con hdtr able ofhe new’ formed mountains, and locked into theirraters, which on feme of them appeared to be lit.le fhort of half a mile in circumference; and al~hough the exterior perpendicular heigh of anyf them did rot exceed two hundred feet, thtjdepth of their inverted cone within was three times> s great, it tvould rot have been pcflible to have.<reailted on thtfe new mountains rear tbeir craters,r they Lad not taken the precaution of tying adouble handkerchief over their meuths and noflrils;iind even with that precaution they could not re*pfi long, the fumes of the vitriolic acid were fp ex¬ceedingly penetrating, i of fuch a lufiocatingpjality. Hey found in one a double crater, likewo funnels joined tctvthcr; and in all there wasSome little fn.oke and hpehtiens of falls and ful.;turs, of the \ariocs c.oicurs abovementioned, juft■ s is con mcnly fecn adhering to the inner walls ofthe principal crater of Vefuvius.Two or three dajs after they had been there, cnethe new mouths, into which they Lad locked,tudderly made a great explcficn cf ftenes, fmcke,r.d afl.es, which would ccitainly have proved fatal,o any cne who might unfortui^attly have been[there at the time of the explofcn. We read of aalimilsr accident having proved fatal to more thanI twenty pTtple who had the curie fity to look intothe crater of the Monte Nuevo, near Puszuoii, alew dajs alter its fermatien, in the year 1538. Ihe15th ot Auguft, Sir William, law a ludden explcfi-an ot In.oke and a.flt4s thrown to an extreme height;ut of the great crater cf Vefuvius, that t&uft havei«ftroy«jd ?ny-ontt \\ ahfri half a mik: of ir: and vjcm the 19th of July a party not only had vilited th|crater, but had'deiceiided 170 feet within it. Whithey were on the mountain, two whirlwinds, e;r'cfly like thofe that form weter-fpouts at $ea, ma:their appearance; and one of them, which was veirear, made a llrange rufliing roife, and having tiken rp a great quantity of the fine •flies, formethem into an elevated fpiral column, which, \tith 1whirling motion and great rapidity, was carrietewards the mountain of •Somma, where it broland v as difperfed. One of our author’s fervantlemployed in colldfling of fulphur, or fai ammonac, which cryftslrzies near the fumaroli, as they arcalled (and which are the fpots whence the hot 'vapour iflues out of the frefli lava) found to his gres]fiirpr’ze, an exceeding cold wind iiTue from a fiffiavery near the hot fumaroli upon his leg. In a vineyard rot in the fame lire with the new-formeJmountains juft deferibed, but in a right line fronthem, at the diftnnee of little more than a milfrom Torre del Greco, they found three or fou-mors of thefe new*formed mountains with cratercut of which the lava flowed, and by uniting wit!the ftreams that came from the higher mouths, antadding to their heat and fluidity, enabled the whol«current to make fo rapid a progrefs over the unfortunate town, as fcarcely to allow its inhabitant!iufficient time to efcape with their lives. The richvineyards belonging to the Torre del Greco, andwhich produced the wine called Lacrima Chrifti.that were buried and totally deftroyed by this lava^confifted of more than three thoufand acres; butthe deftrutfion of the vineyards by the torrents o4mud and water, at the foot of the mountain of Sem¬ina, was much more extenfive.In that part pf the country, the firft figns of aT 47 )rrscit that our author met with, was nea*' fhe -vM.;e of the Madonna dell’ Arco, and he pafled fcveralicrs between that and the town of Ottai no; onear Trochia, and two near the town of-fiomtnn,ire the moft confiderable, and not left than alarter of a mile in breadth; and, according to theilimony of eye witneffes, when they poured downam from the mountain ofSomma, they were fromenty to thirty feet high; the matter of thefs tor-its was a liquid glutinous mud, eompofed ot Tco-i.e, afltos, Hones (fome of an enormous f,ze) mix-with trees that had been torn up by the roott.kh torrents, as it may well be imagined, were ir-liftable, and carried off every thing before them;iipufes, walls, trees, and not lefs than lour thou-rd fheep and other cattle. At Somma, a teameight oxen, which were drawing a large timber:e were at once carried off, and never were heardmore.The appearance of thefe torrents was like thatI; all other torrents in mountainous countries, ex-pt that what had been mud was become a perfttti ment, o» which nothing lefs than a pickaxe could;ake any impreffion. The vineyards and cultivatedEnds were here much more ruined; and the limbs. the trees much more torn by the weight of the' nes, then tbofe which have been already delcrib-• on the fca fide of the volcano.The abbe Tata, in his printed account of thisuption, has given a good idea of the abundance,e great weight, and glutinous quality of thefe afh-’, when he lays, that having taken a branch fromjjfig-tree ftili Handing near the town ofSomma, onitiich were only fix leaves, and two little unripe figs,jd having weighed it with the afhes attached to it,V found it to he tbn'ty.one ounces; when having( ** )cfftbe volcanic matter, it fcv!rcd_y 'weigh jthree.In the town cf Somma, ofir author found f<; ]churches and about ieventy houfes witiiou' roofs, a: If'uli of tidies. The trreat damage tai that ltdc of riHKiuntain, hy the‘f *il of the allies and the tot renalhappened on the iSth, ip’htli, and 20th of Jun!jand on the 12th of July. The 19th, the allies fc|io thick at Sonima, that unlefs a pt fibu kcptinnujlion, he was foon fixed to ’he ground by thtjJI'his fall of allies waS accompanied alio with Lulre])orts, and frequent fiulhes of the volcanic lighiring, fo that, l-rrounded by io many hotrors, it wiimpoffible for the inhabitants to remain hi the towiand they all fled; the darknefs was Inch, althoughwas mid-day, that even with the help of torches |was fc arcely poffible to keep in the high road. G |the ibth of July, fignor Guifeppc'Sacco w ent up 11the auiter, and, according to his account, which hslbeen printed at Naples, the crater is of an irreguk |oval form, and as he ui; pofes (not having been ab! Ito meafure it) of about a mile and a half in drain tferencC; the inGde, as uiual, in the fhape cf an it |verted cone, the inner walls of which c n the carter Ifide are perpendicular; but on the*' weftern fide cthe c rater, which is much lower, the defeent was prat Itic able, and Sacco with fonte of bis companions atltually went down ore hundred and feventy-fix palm (from which fpet, having lowered a cord with a Itcntied.to it, they found the whole depth of the cratetp he about five hundred palms. But filch obrtrvttions on the crater of Vtfuvius are cf little confiicpience, as both its form and apparent depth anfubjnrt to great alterations from day to day.Grtp. Econ. <f Nature,Vd. 2nd $age .—33^ |335*—33.‘ IAwful Phenomenaof Nature,■■■TIIM Tan—iPART TPIIRD,SE AST’ O RMS-rr ‘/'; > ->">■•>• >■■ >•■>• >•+-> •>••>">■•>■ 'v . ••'•' >vC^Acs^ ■7r:~a-*; teliV' s—-Ski—MELANCHOLY CONSEQUENCESOF 'i WOSea Storms, &c.I? account of the Shipwreck of a Portiiguefe Sritfio, onher paffdge j rom Goa to A-iadras—in the year 1782^related by one of the Sufferers.IT was now the eightenrh of May when wefailed from Goa. The hemifp iere had beenfeme days oyercaft with ctouds: fome lightDwers of rain had fallen; and it certainly did notd to raife my lpirits} and free me from my omi-l;us appxehenfjons, to hear that thofe circuraftancesideated an approaching g*le of wind. I oblerved,lireover, that the vefiel was mtich too deep in theiter, being greatly overloaded—that fhe was inny refpedts defedive, and, as the feamen fay, ill-nd, and in f]xort very unfit to encounter a gale.yind of any violence. I Icorned, however, tdJ( 52 )uultuJ aup’rciuofis.and decern.irlyield to thofeto proceed.“ On the nineteenth, the (Icy was ohicuredimmenfe tieeces of c;ouds, iurciiarged with inflamabie matter; and L; the evening, the rainin torrents, the hrmament darker,ed apace, ftidenight came on, and the hon or? pi extreme darknwere rendered /liil more horrible be the pealsthunder which rent the air, and the frequent fites of lightning, -which lervjd oniy to fhevrhorror of our fituation, and leave us in incre;darknelst mean time the wind became mere vide]blowing on the fhore; and a heavy tea, r. iledits force, united with it to mad; our hate more 1|midable.4< By day light on the morning of the twentithq gale had increaled t0 a luncus tempeil; andfea, keeping pace with it, ran mountain high;;* it kept invariably to the fame point, the capand officers became feriouffy alarmed, and altperfuaded that the' fouth-weff monfoon Itad l. iwhich, if it were i’o, would render it abf'oluimpofiibie for us to weather the'coaft. 1day, however, we kept as dole as the violencthe weather would allow us to the wind; butfea canted her head lo to leeward, that ihe nmore Ice than head-way; and the rigging wa.lirained with the work, that we had intie hopkeeping oft' the [here, unleis the w ind changecwhich there was not now the fmalleft probabhfuiing the night there was no intermifflon olilorm: many of the fails blew into tibbonds;of the rigging was carried away, and iuchtions were made, that, before morning, everythat could poflibly be llruck was down up.or<eck.About fevea o’clock on the morning(ijrenfv-Hrfi, I was ahrmed by an nnofual nauspon the deck, and running up, perceived thatP'erv remaining fail in the venei, the fore failone eycepted, was totally carried away. The fightas horrible, and the whole vtflel prefented a'e£hc!e as dreadful to the feelings as" mortifying to■toman pride. Fear had produced, net only all the;plpldfne(s of defpondency, but all the mifehievousjeaks of infanity. [n one place {food the thptain,iving, ilatnping, and tearing his'hair in handfulst om his head—here, feme of the crew were ca!tjluon their knees, c!a!ping their bands, and pray,ng, with all the extravagance of horroh paiutffd iniaeir face*~~-here, others were flogging their ima-?s with all their might, calling upon them to allay>e ftorm. One of onr nafFengers, who was purftrf an F-ngliih Eaftlndiaman, bed got hold of a cafe-Icttle of nam, and with an air of didraiftion and;:ecp dffpair imprinted in his f^ce, was ftalking a-A'fit in his fiiirt. I perceived him to be on the|i-»int of ferving it about, in large tumblers, to thetw undismayed people; and well convinced, that,i) far from alleviating, it would (harpen the horrorsf their mind, I went forward, and with much di-teulty prevented hinv1 <4 Having accomnlirbed this point, I applied my.lif to t’a« caprain, and. endeavoured to bring hima k (if pcfiiouVto his recolie&ion, snd to a ienfeif what he owed to his dmy as a commander, andi his dignity as a man: l exhorted him to encou-|*ge the tailors by his example; and drove to rail ;is fpirits, by faying that the llorm did not appeara me by any means fo terrible as fome I had beforeXpenenced.“ While 1 was thus employed, we flopped a fean the ftarboard fide, which i really thought wouldl ave fent us down, iiie veflel ieemed to fink be-,( 54ruafh its weight, Shivered, and remained moticleft—it- was a moment of critical tu.'penfe; fanjn»ade .me think I ftit her graduaiiy ciefccrtng—T gave myfrlf op as gone, and fmnmcnedmy fortitude to bear approaching death withcoming manhood.“ Juft at this crifs, the water, which run'lwith incredibie force though all parts of the veflbrouglt! out iloating, and nearly AnTocateu, ather Enghfh patTcngcr^ who tv as endeavourino1take a little repofc in a fmal! cabin boarded oh' irethe 4cck: he was a very (lout young man, andof true fpirit. Finding that the veffel was not, dhad thought, going immediately do wn, be jelme in exhorting the captain to his duty: we [fuaded him to throw the guns overboard, as wella number of trunks and packages with which tveffel was much encumbered; and with tome litexertion, we got the pumps let a going.”The name of the Eogiith paflenger juft ment:ced was H.'.H. He was a young man of a mrft anable difpofition, and with it p oik fled all that marfpirit that gives prefenee of mind in exigencesdanger. He and Capt. Campbell having, y,igreat difficulty, got fume hands to ftiek to tpumps, Hood at the wheel, at one* to afiift tmen, and prevent them from quitting it: and :though ho pc ids, determined that no effort prafcable on their parts Lhould be wanting to the pifervation of the vefTel. The water, however, gaied upon the pumps, aotvdthftanding every eflbiand it evidently appeared that they could not kcher long above vatcr.At ten ^dick the -.yiod feemed to increa/r, a;amotmteJ to a downright ’hurricane: the'Iky wfo entirely obfeured with black cloud#-, and the rafell fo thick, th.-itohp.cfswere not ddeernab( 55 );|rom the wheel to the (hip’s head. Soon Mie pump?yere choaked, and could no longer be worked:ihen difmay feized on all—nothing ;,ut unutterableiefpair, lilent anguiih, and horror, wrought up toren/y, was to be 1'een; not a Angle foul was capa¬ble of an effort to be ufefuj—all feemed more de-irons to extinguifli their calamities by embracingdeath, ttvan willing, by a painful exertion, toivoid it.At about eleven o’do<.k they could plainly dif-; inguifh a dreadful roaring noife, relembling thatpf waves rolling againft rocks; but the darknefs of‘i:he day, and the accompanying rains, prevented||hem from feeing any diftance; and i: it were airock, they might be actually dafned to pieces on itIptfore they could perceive it. At twelve o’clock,however, the weather cleared up a little, and bothtlie wind and the fea feemed to have abated: thevery expanlion of the profpedt round the (hip wasexhilarating; and as the weather grew better, andithe fea lefs furious, the fenfes of the people return-jed, and the general tlupefa&ion began to de.ijcreafe.|i. The weather continuing to cleanup, they in fomei time dilVovered breakers and large rocks withoutSlide of them: fo that it appeared they muft havapalTed quite clofe to them, and were no\V fairlyhemmed in between them and the land.“In this very critical junflure,” fays our travel-:ler, “ the captain, entirely contrary to my opini¬on, adopted the dangerous refolution of letting goan anchor, to bring her up wi h her heltd to th;;i lea: but, though no fear-nan, my common lenfe; told me that die could never ride it our, but mud:directly go down. Ikie event nearly juftified myjudgment; for the had fcarceiy been at an nor be-| fore an enormous lea rolling over her, overwhelm-«tan<i ff^.ed her with wk!ter, and evwy on: on Dniconciodetl that file wss certainly finking. On tinfiant, a Lafcar? with a prei’cnce of mind wortan old Englifh mariner, took an axe, ran fcrwarand cut rhe cable.”Oil finding herfclf free, the ve/T.'land made an effort to right herfelf; but file was |again floatsmoft completely water-logged, and heeled to 1.board fo much, that the gunnel lay under \CattjjThey then endeavoured to fleer as faft as they cotfor the land, "which they knew could nclr be atgreat difiance, though they were unable :o difcov jit through the hazy weather: the fore-fail was loticned; by great tffurts in bailing, {he rightedlittle, her gunnel was pet above water, and ?m]fcudde;j as well as they could before the win!which fiill blew hard or. fhore; ai.d about tefco’clock the land appeared at a ftnall diltancehead.The lovetions in theof life countervails all other confider;mind of man. The uncertainty thwere under with regard to the lliore before thenwhich they had rcafon to believe was parted JfydAlb’s dominions, where they fliould meet with tfcmoll rigorous treatment, if not ultimate death, wsforgotten in th* joyful hope of having life, and thefeudded towards the thore in ail the exulting tran:ports of a people juft foateksd from the jawsdeath.This gleam of happinefs, however, coniinueinot long: a tremendous fea rolling after thenbroke over their Item, tore every thing before itflove in the fieerage, carried a wav the rudder, fiiivered ti e. wheel to pieces, and tore up the verring-bolts ol the dec k—conveys 1 the men >* ho flootat thi wheel forward, and {frept them overboardCaptain C..mpbeii 'Wai at the tiaie, neai(-57 )'ie wheel, ancl fcrtunate!y• had 1;M of the UtT.trei,ijhich enabled him to rd’hl in p»rt the weight oflie wave, he was, however, Iwept oif his feet,id dalhtd againft the main-maft. The jerk fiotnke tafF.irel, which h£ hekl very tenaciouil/j feen.-,]] as it it would have diflocated his amis: it h/cke5iowever the impetus of his motion, and in all pro-ability laved him figm being dauitd to pieces a-jainft the malt.1 “ J floundered about,’’ fays he, “ in the waterill the foot of the mall, till at length 1 {pot on my.,.ec, and fe zed a rope, wiiich L iteld in a ftate of:;reat e-nbarefi'ment, dubious what I (hould do toxtricate myfelf. At this infant I perceived thatllr. hall bat! got'upon the caphcrn, and was wav-hg his band to me. to foilow his example: this IVifhc.- to do, though it was an enterprife of homeiifk and difficulty; for, if i loft the hold I had, abogle moti'in of the vtffei, or a fall wave, wouldcertainly carry me overboard. I made a bold pufh,tjiQv..ever, and* foitunately accomplifbed it. Hav*Eng attained this flation, l could the better furveyShe wreck, and t^at water was nearly breaO-hi;;h on ihe quarter deck (for the veffi l was deep-Lvaifled); and 1 perceived the unfortunate Englifiijmrfer flan ding where the war r was moft (hallow,!|is if watching with patient expeitatiun its rifing,hnd awaiting death: called to him to come to us.m n m ^Jut he (hook his hc?d in dilp.-.ir, and faid, in a la.’imentablc tone, “ t is -11 o.er with us1 God havejmercy upon us!”—then feated himfelf with feem-Jing compofure on a chair ,vh^. h happened to be^.rolling; about in the wreck of the deck, and in a■few minutes afterward* was wafhed into the ftaalong with it," where he w*s fpeedily releafed froma.fcate ten thoufand times war it than death.“ During this univerfal wreck of things, fhc hci.ror l was in could not prevent ute from obfei v; Ia very curious cincumftance, which at any oti itime would have excited laughter, though no\*produced no other emotion than iurprife. We hpened to be in part hden with mangoes, of whthe illand of Goa i* known to nrodme the lineltthe voild, feme of them lay in balkets on tbe ooa 1't le b!a k. bov. in the moment of greateft dager, hau got feattd by them, devouring them vccioufly, and crying all the time molt bitterly athorrors of his fir nation!“The vefTel no^v got completely water-lopg*and Mr. Ha l and [ were employed in forming ccjeclural '-a! orations how many minutes itie cotkeep above water, End conlolirig one another on runfortunate circumftances under which we met\ *lamenting that fate had thus bre-ught us acquaintonly to make us witnefles of each other’s uiiicilynd then to lee-one another no more.“ As the larboard fide of the veffcl was graduagoing down, ths deck, and of courfe the capfierbeLa‘me too nearly perpendicular tor us to continon it: we therefore forfaw the nrceifoy of qhittii!k, and prot upon the {larboard fide, holding faftthe .gunnel, and allowing aur bodies and legs▼ield to the fra as it broke over us. Thus we cofrjnued for fome time: at length the feverity of tllabour fo entirely exhaufted our ftrength and ipiri:that our bed hope fremed to be a fpeedy conclulicto our painful death; and we began to have fericintentions of leting go our hold, and yielding ouieives up at once»to the fury of the waves.“ The veffrl, which all this time drifted \\jth tffea and wind, gradually approximated the fnorand at length ftruck the ground, which for an irtiant revived our almoff departed hopes; but wfneu found thas it dia not in the fruailyit degre( 59 )'(better our fituation. A^ain I begsn to yield to ut-titer dcfpair—iga n i thought ot Ictiiiig go my hvld,laud linking at once: it is irr.podible, .bought I,'even to tie pe—why, then, prolong, for a fow mi-nutes, a painiitt-exirtance that rnuit at iatt be givenup? Yet, yet, the ail-lubduing love of life fuggcit¬ed, t'nat many things appireruiy impollioie had’ tome to pah; and j laid to imieif, 11 life is to ber| loll, why not lefe it in a glorious itruggie? S/ouidI (urvive it by accident, life wiil be rendered doub--i ly i’weet to me, and i itiil more worthy of it byI perfeve-ing forriiude.“ While l w.i's employed in this train of reflec-i; lion, I perceived feme of the people colie&ing to-:j! get her, tail: in-g, and ho du.g a couiuitution: it irn-mediately occu'red to me, that they were devilingiomc plan for ef aping from the wre, k, and trettingon lirore: and, lo natural is it ior man to edng tobis fsdow creaiu're for lupport in difficult or dange¬rous exigences, th:.t I propofsd to ft r. Hell to jointhem, ind take a fh.ue in the <-xe otion of the plan—oblerving to him af the fame time, that 1 wasdetermined at ad events to o<dt :hc vtii'J, and trnltto tfc- protedfion and guiuance of a iuperintending ;Providence for the fell.“ As prodigality of life is, in fome cafes, thecefs of virtue and courage—lo there arc others inwhich it is vice, meannefs and cowardice. Truecourage is, according to the iireutnftatices underwhich it is to operate, as rigidly tentn ious and vigi¬lant of life in one caie, as it is inditfcrent and i«-gardltfs in another; and I think it is a very Itrangecontradiction in the human he.rt laithough it oftenhappens), that a man who has the mod unoounb-ed courage, feeking death even in the canon’smouth, (hall yet want the necetfary relolution tomake exertions to lave his life in cafes of ordinary/( 6o )danger.. The unfortunate EngliflT purfer could u tcollcfi. courage fufncient to make an effort to fa 'hiinfeH; and yet I think it probable that he wolhwt faced a battery ot artillery, or 'expoled hifelfto a piffol ikot, if occaflon required, as (bonanv other man. Thus it appears at firft view: hmay not this feeming incongruity be explained |faying, that perfonai cor. age and lortitude are diferen: qualities of the qaind and body, and depcil ;upon the cxerciie of entirely Jiff'crenr functions? 1Be that as it may, I argued with my felt, in til!height of my calamitous fituatibn, upon tt.e lubje ;of fortitude«nd titjo^tion, courage and cowardicatrd, notv ithitandinw the ferious ai'peht of affair .found my (elf Ihitning to the fugoeiiions of pridwhat a paltry thing- to yield, while ffrength is le||to ffruggle! V.anity herf.il had her hint, and whitpered, “ Should l elcape by an effort of my owswhat a g;orious them? of exultation!” There wenI tonfefs,. tranfitory images in ray mind, whiclto operating with the natural attachment to felt pr^itrvation^ made me ptrfcveje, and relbtve to do fJ, 1while one veflige'of ifope was left for the mind ndwell on.:‘‘ Obferving as I laid before, the people confulCing together, and refolding to join them, 1 made ateffort to get to the lee ihrouds, where they wet*Banding, or r.nLer clinging; but before I couln accomplilh it, I loff my hold, fell down the hatchway{the gratings having been carried away with thetong boat), and was for foanJ minutes entangledthere among aheap of packages, which the violentfl.U(ffuations of the water had colietffed on'the kuhde. As the Vcffel moved with the fea, and thewater flowed in, the packages and I were rolled'together—*Tometimes onq,. fometimes another up-pertnofti fo that. i began to be apprejieuiWc I6i.)iifosuld not be able to ex'ricste tr.yfelf: by the roereftjac?itient, however, 1 trafped ibtuetbing that lay Inmy way, made a vigorous fpring, and gained thelice /hroucis. Mr. Hall who followed me, in 1 ■ iz-iing the ihroad^, was driven againft me with (uciiiviolence, that 1 could Icarcely retain my hold ofilthe rigging.“ Gomp lied by the perilous ifituation in v.hhh 1;flood? [ i ailed oin to him for God’s lake to keep:jeff, .or that l was rendered quite breathiefs ar.wlI worm out: he generoufly ehdeavoured to make wayI for me, and, in -o uoing, unfortunately loft his,i hold, and wnm down under the fhip’s fide. Never,; never Iholl ! lorget my fenfations, at this melancho¬ly incidcn;—[ would l ave given midions of worldsit-bat could ’ ave recalled the words which made himIrobvc; I- y mind was wound up to the laft pitch ofanguish: ! may truly fay, that this was the mo ftbitt;rcf all the bit tar moments of my life, compar¬ed with which the other circumftances of the Ihip-\treck feemed IffTeneu—for 1 had in/enfibiy acquir¬ed an uiifual efteem and warm attachment for him,and was-doubtful whether, after being even the in¬nocent o. Calico of his falling, I ought to take fur-ithcr pains to preferve my own life. Ail iLcfe fen-fations were paffing with the rapidity of lightningi through my thoughts, when, as much to my ado-nifhment as to my joy, 1 faw him borne by a re¬turning wave, and thrown among the very packa-: ges from w hich 1 had but juft before, with fuch la-|bour and difheuity, extricated myfelf. in the end hei proved equally fortunate, but, after a much longerand harder ftruggie, and after fuitaining much motei iejury.“ I once more changed my ftation, and mademy way to the poop, where 1 found mylelf rather.thfcrt flaelsertd—J earneflly vtiflicd Mr. Hall to b*e( )with me. whatever mi^ht be my uhnnatcfaan i n cUonfd him to come near me; but he ona .1 ercd by fl'.akinn' iris head, in a feeble, deiponin« manner—daring at the fame time wildiy abohim: even his ipiric was fubdued; and ucipair,perceive'.!, had begun to take poflcfflon of his min'“ Ikin ■ a little more at cafe in my new ftatithan 1 had been before, l had more time to ucliorare, and mote power to judge, i recollected, thaccording to the courfe ®f time, the day was kgone an ! the night quickly approaching 1 rtil.ied, that for anv enterprize whatever day was mpreferable to nigiit; and above all I confibered. ththe veil "cl could not hold long together— therefdthought, that the bed mode I cuukl adopt weube, to take to the water with the ririt buoyant tt.di1 con'd fee; and, as the wind and water both feem«to run to the fhore, to take my chance in that vv;of reaching it. In paid nance of this refoluiion,tore off my ihirt, having betore that thrown of ilother parts of my drtfs.—I looked at n;y fleeve outon', in which was let the iioir of my departed chdretj—and, by an involuntary a<ft of the itnngition, alked myle.f die queidion, ‘‘ Shali i be hapjenough to meet them where I am now aboutgo:’—Shall thofe dear lalt remaiss, too, becomeprey to the devouring deep?”—In that inftant, reIon, fufpended by the horrors ef the feene, gaway to initifidt. and I rolled hiv fhirt up, and vecarefully thrufd it into a hole between decks, witthe wild hopes that the fleeve-buttons might ytfcape untouched. Watching my opportunity,favV a log of wood floating near the vefTei, anwaving my hand to Mr. Kail as a lalt adieu, jumed after it. Here, again, l was fjdoomed to aggr, vated hardfhips—I had fcarcely touched the hwhen a great fea fnatched it from my hold; (tilliit came near me, I grsfped at it inefecutally. t:H stt lalt it was completely carried a'vay, but not beforei jt had cut aud battered and bruiftd me in'kveralplaces, ard in a manner that at any ottier time [1 iliould have thought dreadtul“ i'.’eath leenicd inevitable; and all that occur-* red to me now to do,-'was to accelerate it, and getI out ef its pangs as fpeediiy as poffible; for, though1 knew how to Iwiin; the tremendcus lurf renderedfwinirninp' uieleis, and ail hope from it would havej. been ridiculous. 1 therefore began to fwailow asimuch water as poffibie; yet, ill',l riGng by thebuoi ant-principle of the \v«ves to the furface, myformer thoughts began to recur; and whether itwas lhai, or natural inftmft, umkh furvived iheItemporaly iniprcilidns cf dtlpair, i knovrnot; but[ I-endeavoured to i’wim. which 1 liad not done long,whe-n i again diltoverrd the log of wood l had loftfloating n-ar me, and with feme, difficulty caughtit: hardly Lad it been arv inftant in my hands,when, m the fame unlucky n.rans I loft it again. Ihad ofun heard-it laid in Scotland,, that if a manwia throw himfelf flat on 1 is back in the water,lie quite Itraight and ft iff, and iufi’er himfelf to Imktill the water gets into his ears, he will continue tofloat fo for ever: this a; curred t* me now, and 1 de¬termined to try the experiment; fo 1 threw myfelfion my back in the manner I have deferibed, andleft myfelf to the difpofal of Providence; nor was itlong before 1 found the truth of the laying—for 1floated witn hardjy an effort, and began for the iirfttime toconceivefomething likehopes of prefer vation,‘‘ After lying in this manner, committed to thediferetion of the tides, l foon law the veffcl—lawthat it was at a confiderable diftance behind me.Liveiitft hope began to play about my heart, andjqy fluttered with a thoufand gay fancies in mynjiiid; I began to for na the favourable condtifioiv( % )that the' tide v as 01 Tying me rapidly to land fidnti.. v jfeij am; that I fliouid fbon once more touc“ This expectation tvas a ccrdia! that revived milexhanfted Ipirns; 1 took courage, apd left myfclHftill to the fame all-Jirc&ing Fewer that !iad hatherto prcfeived me, fcarcc’y doubting that I Ihoohlifoon reach the land. Nor was 1 miftak.n; ?• r, i.a fliort time mere, without efFort or exertion, amv itliout once turning from off my back, [ fotm*my felt ftrike again ft the fancy beach. Ovtrjoyc*tc the higiieft pitch oftranfport at my provident;al deli.trance, 1 made a coavalhve fpi ing, and raiup a little didameon the {Lore-, but w^s fo weaiand worn do n *by fatigue, and fo unable to cleamy ftonjach of ,the fait 'water with which it waloaded, that J fudden.y grew de?diy fiek, and apprehended that 1 had only exchangee one de. th tcanother; and in a minute or two minted awav.”Narrative cf the Lofs cf the Half-ivell EjJI Iuliaman.on the co.jf of Dorfeftjhire, January \ 7 c6.HE Halle well £alf-;ndianien, of 758 tons bur¬then, commanded by Richard Fierce Enpfailed throogh the Dowms on bunday the ;ft of Ja¬nuary, 1786, and the next morning being a breafof Dunnofe, it fell calm.Monday the 2d of January, at three in the after¬noon, a breeze fprung up from the South, whenthey ran In fhore to land.the pilot, but very thickweather coining on in the evening, and the windbaffling, at nine in the evening they Were obliged t janchor in eighteen fathom water, furled their top-fails, but could not furl their courfes, the fsto.v t*bling thick, and freezing as it fell,te, ra frrnd.Campbell’s overland Journey t<I:;aia, Page 15^—175.( 6,' )| Tirefi!ay the 3d, at fatir in the morning, airong gale came on from Eaft-Nore-Eaft, and thejhip driving, they were obliged to cut their cables,lind run off to lea. At noon, they fpoke with abrig bound to Dublin, and .having put their pilotjm board her, bore down Channel immediately. At •fight in the evening, the wind frefhening and com-ng to the Southward, they reefed fu; h fails as weref udged r.eceflary. At ten at night it Mew a violentfeaje of wind at South, and they were obliged totarry a prefs of fail to keep the fhjp off ihore, inMoing which the hawfe p!ugs? which according to anew improvement were put inilde, were walheil id,and the hawfe bags wsfhed taway, in confequence of1 which they ftiippcd a large quanti^of water on the1 gun deck_On founding the well, and finding the finp hadIffprung 2 leak, and had five feet water in her held,they clued the main top fail up, hauled up the main-fail, and immediately endeavoured to furl both,but could not cficck it—AH the pumps were fet towork on difeoverihg the leak.Wednrfcby the *,th, at tvro in the morning, theyrendeavonred to wear the fhip, but without liiecefs,cam! judging it neceilary to cut away the mizea-Ijmctf it was immediately done5 and a fecond attempt(made to wear the fliip, which luccceded no better(than the former; and the fhip having now fevtuifeit water in her hold, and gaining faft on the..pumps, it was thought expedient, for the prtfer-vation of the Hup, to cut away the nxainmalt, t!.>efliip appearing to be in immediate danger of foun-dcring.At ten in the morning the wind abated con fid er-ahly? and the thip labouring extrerrv. ly, rolled the -fore top-m?.i> over on the larboard lide, >n the fall,lithe wreck went through the fo:e-fad, and tore it toH( 65 )piece?. . At eleven in the forenoon, the wind ciito the Weft.ward, and the weather clearing up,Berry-head was diflinguitliable bearing North aby Enft, diftant four or five league?; theyimmediately bent another fore-fail, erected a jc.main-imft, anti fet a top-gallant fail for a mafail, under which fail they bore up for PcrtfmouCand employed the remainder of the day in gettiup a jury mizen-mafi.About two in the morning on Friday the 6lt!'e ihip ftiil driving, and approaching very faittire flaore. hlr. Henry Meriton, went irud the cndy, where the Captain then was, and a coverfuion took place, Captain Pierce exprefling etrerr.e anxiety for ihe prefervation of his belcvdauohtcrs, and esrneftly afltir.g the officer ifcould devife any inears of faying them* and cn f!arfwering with great concern that be feared it woulbe impoffible, but that their only chance wouldto wait for the morning, the Captain Lfted up t|hands in flient and diftrefsful ejaculation.At this dreadful moment the fhip ftruck wifuch violence as to dzfn the l#eads of thefe wtwere ftanding it^the cuddy, againft the deck abo’them, atrd the fatal blow wes .accompanied byfhriek of horror, which burfl at one iuflant fromvery'quarter of the fhip.h!r. iV eriton, tne officer, whom we have alreacmentioned, at this cri/is ofhciror, offired to tldefponding crew, the beft advice which could pofibly be given to them; he recommended their corino all to that fide of the fctp which lay loweftthe rock', and lingly to take the opportunities whicmight fhen oiler cf efcaplng to the {bore. Ah.;mng. thus provided ;o the utmoft of his poweifor their fafety, be returned to the rcund-houfwhere by this tune all the paffingers, and moft t( <5/ )fie officers were affetnbled, the latter employed inijfFerinir coofolation' to the unfortuaare ladies, andvith unparilbled magnanimit'’, fuffering their com-hafian tor the fair and amiable companions of theiri ni iforruhes, to get the better oc the fenle of their> vn dan ger, and the dread of almoft inevitable an-nihiliation. at this moment, what mo it be the feel-n;-s of a Father—of fuch a Father as Captainderce!'i'he iliip ftruck on the rocks at or near Seacombe,ki the ifl.uld of Purbeck, between Peverd Poi*!t,,j.nd St. Alban’s-head, at a part of the ihore whereshe cl it is of a vad height, and tlfes aim off perpen¬dicular from its bale.| But at this particular {pot the cliff is excavated atfoot, and preients a cavern of ten or twelveifattls in depth, and of breadth equal to the lengthof a large {hip, the fides of the cavern fo nearly up-fiaht as to be extremely difficult of accefs, the roofformed of the Ruptndous cliffy and the bottom of itjdrewed with ffir.rp and uneven rocks, which feernto have been rent from above by fame convulfionbf Nature.li It was at the mouth of this cavern that the un-jjfoikunnte wreck lay Itretcbed aimed from fide toijfidt of it, and chkring her broadside to the horridichafin.But at the time the feip firuck it was too dark toIdifeover the extent of their danger, and the cx-I'treme horror of their fituation; even Mr. Meiltoni'himfe'f conceived' a hope chat ihe might keep toge¬ther till daylight, and endeavoured, to chear irstlrooping friends and in particular the unhappy la¬dies, With this comfortable c'xpeelation, as an an-ufwcr to the Captain’s enquiries, liow they went 0:1,Wr ‘hat he thought of their fit nation.In addition u> the company already in the round-t 68 )hrn'/r, they had admitted three Mach wonen, atwo foldiers wives, who with the hufoand of onethem had been permitted to come in, thoughfeamen who had tumu'tuoufly demanded entramto get the -light?, had been oppofed, and kept oby Mr, Rogers, the third Mate, and ^!r. Brimer tfifth, fo tiiat the numbers there were now increafjto near fifty; Captain Fieri e in ting on a chuir,or feme other moveable, with adautjhter on eacSfiot him, eachofwhom he alte; nately preffed to bisfcchonatc bofom; the reft oftbe melancholy aflemltlwere feated on the deck, whkh was ft re wed v/fimufical livfirumentSj and the wreck of furn'liujtrunks,, boxes and paka^e?.And here alfo Mr. Mciiton, having prevloufcut feV-crM w-s esndyts into piece?, and (luck the!tip in various parts of the round-houfe, -and 5i*hteiup all the glafs ianthorns he cook! find, took i>feat, intending to wait the happy dawn,* that migllrprefect to birr, the means of eifecVing his own cjcape, and afford him an opportunity of giving j< f his danger, but ohfervhfiilar.ee to the partners < t his danger; but oblervithat the parr ladies appeared parched and exhauied, he fetched a bnfkrt o£oranges from foms patof the round honfe, rad prrr:-fted on feme of theeto refrefn themfelves by frekmg a little of the juicAt this time they were ail trier ably competed, eieept 'v;i{s r.Ianfei, who .vasin hyftetic fits on tifiner de k of the round-houfe.?ut on his return to the company, he perceive:a c on lid er able alteration in the appearance of iffhip, the firfes were vifibly giving way, the decfee me d t«» be lifting, and he di (covered other flronfymptntt's that (he < o.iIJ not hold together mutorr -r, Hfc therefore attempted to go forward tlook cut, hut itimedtauTy taw that the fhip wa< ipseated in the midd e, and that the fere part hatil-.anged its pofrtion, zfid lay rather .farther cut to-js-ards the leaj and in this emergency, when the'irxt moment might be. charged with his ; Ate, heictermiited to leizc the prefent, and follow the ex-jimpie ot the crew, and the ioldiers, v/ho were nowinuitting the ill ip in numbers, and -making their|vay to a ihore, of which they knew net yet thei-iorrors. i "j Mr. Meriton difeevered a Ipar, which appearedito be laid from the fin p.’s iide to the rocks, and onjthis fpar he determinee to attempt his elcape.Me accordingly Irid him down on it, and thruft .jLin.fdf fprvxard, but he loon round the ipar had noCommunication with the rock, he reached the*endit of it, and then flipped of:', receiving a very violentIjbiuife in his fail,’ and before' he could recover hisillegs, he was wafijed oil by the luree, in whi.h heIluppcrted himfeif by fwimminp, till the returningt, wave dafned him againft the back part of the cavern|i' where he laid hold of a larall projecting piece of thei rock, but was fo benumbed, that he was on t'-e-point|i of quitting^ it, when a fern.an who had already!} g.dr.cd a fcotinp, extended hi* hand, and affixedfj him till he could lecure hirafclf on a little TV.elf ofji the rock, from which he clambered ft ill higher,| till he was out of the reach of the furf.|- Mr. Rogers the third mate, remained with the.1 Captain, and the unfortunate ladies, and their com*i| panions, near 20 minutes after Mr. Meriton had|j quitted the fhip. - *, At this time the fea was breaking in at the foreI pa:t of the fhip, and reached as far as the main-jj mafi, and Captain Pierce gave Ml' Rogers a nod,^ and they took a lamp, and went together ipto theI fltrn gallery, and sfittr viewing the rocks for IbyneI time, Captain Pierce afked Mr. Rogers, if heI thought there was any poffibility of faving the girls.to which he replied, he fearccJ there was not, filjthey could only drfcover the black fate of the pel.pendiailar rock, and not the tavern which aflbrJjed flitl-er to thcfe v iio elcaped; they then rtturrlled to the round-hotife, find Mr. Rogers hung nilthe lamp, «nd Capwin Pierce, v.jfh his great go®on, lat down between his two daughters, and ft ruga.g!cd to fuppreis the parental tear which then bur*.|linto his eye.The lea continuing to break in very fad, MtM'Manus, a inidll.ipman, and Mr. Schutz, a paflenger, afkt'd Mr. Rogers what they could do to efcapewho replied, ‘‘follow me.” and they then all weninto the fterr. gallery, and from thence by the weathcr upper quarter gallery upon the poop, ancvvhiill they were there a very heavy fea fell on boardand the round*houfe gave way, and he heard theladies (brick at intervals, as if the water had reach¬ed them, the noife o{ the lea at other times drown¬ing their voices.Mr. Brinier had followed Mr. R ogers to the poop,where they had remained together about five mi¬nutes, when on the coming on of the laft: mehtion-ed fea, they jointly feized a hen-coop, and the famewave which he apprehended proved fatal to feme:of thole who remained below, happily carried him,and his companion to the rock, on which they weredallied with fuch violence as to be milerably bruifedand hurt.Mr. Rogers and Mr. Britner both however reach¬ed the cavern, and fcrambled up the rock; on narTrow (helves of which they fixed themfelves, Mr. Ro¬gers got fo near to his friend Mr. Meriton as to ex¬change congratulations with him, but he was pre¬vented from joining him by at leafl 20 men whowere between them, neither of whom could movei without immediate peril of his life.' 7i )They now found that a very cor.'ider.ib’e numberthe crew, feamen, foldiers, and fome petty of.fituation with themfelves.rers were in the famelough many who had reached the rocks below, hadi:cHhed, in attempting to afeend; what that {itua-on was they were ftill to learn; stt prefent they hadtaped immediate death, bnt they wrere yet to en-imnter cold, nakednefs, wind, rain, ;tna the per-i tual beating of the {pray of the lea, fora diffi.ult,ecarious, and doubtful chance of efcape.In a very few minutes after Mr. Rog rs had gain-jl the rock, an univerfql fhriek, which ftiil vibrates!: their ears, and. in which, the voice of femalefifrefs was lamentably diftinguilhable, announced:ie dreadful cataftrophe; in a few moments all wasMted, except the vi-arring winds, and beating waves;ire wreck was buried in the rcmorfelefs deep, andot an atom of her was ever after difcoverable. J-\'Thus per ifhed the Half tvs elLI What an aggravation of woe was this dreadful,iftis tremendous blosv, to the yet trembling, andFircely ha'f faved w'retches, v.fio were hanging a-ut the frdes of the horrid cavern.After the bittereft three hours which rnWcry everj'ngthened into ages, the day. broke on them; theypw found that had the country been alarmed byle guns of diftrefs which they had continued toiffe for many hours before the (hip ftruck, buthich from the violence of the ftorm were unheard,:iey could neither be obferved by the people from:aove, as they were completely ingulphed in the ta-tern, and over hung by the cliff, nor did any part■it the wreck remain to point out their probable place!f refuge; below, no boat could live to fearch themur, and had'it .been poffible to have acquainted!aofe who would wifh to aflift them, with their exattnation, no ropes could be conveyed into the cavi-J['} to facilitate th$ir efcape, i( ;>• )The only prefpsft which offered, was to creeplong t-he fide of the cavern, to its outward extreity, Lind on a ledge foar< ely as broad as a n'an’s hanto turn the corner, and endeavour to ciamberthe rdmoft perpendicular precipice, whole fumuwas near two hundred fset fro-u tin. bafe.And in this defperate effort *uid fume fuccewhilft ethers, trembling with terror, and thflrength exhausted by mental nnd bodily fatigloft th*‘ precarious footing, and perifiied in thetempt. tThe firft meii who gadned thefummit of the clwere the Cook, and James Thompfcn, a Quarteimailer, by their own exertions they made their wjto the land, and the moment they reached it, hitened to the neareft houfe, and made known thetuation of their feliow lufterrrsThe houfe at which they firft arrived was Eaftinton the prefent habitation of Mr. Garland, ftewaor aijent to the proprietors of the Purbeck Quarri:who immediately got together the workmen uncJhis diredion, and with the moft zealous and aniroauhumanity, exerted every effort fort: e prefervathof the furvivin crew of this unfortunate fiiip; repj^' were procured with a!] pofiible uifpatch, and eveprecaution taken that ailiftance fhould be fpeediand efft dually given.As the day advanced, more afllftance was obta:edj and as the life preferving efforts ofthefurvivcV ou Id" ad in it-, they crawled to the extremities of ttavern, and prefented themfelves to their preferers above, who flood prepared with the means whithe ftuation would permit them to exercife, to hethem to the fummit.Cir antialNar rativc cf the lofs of the Half cm el/ is► Compiledfremthe communications of the tchief Officers) ucho efcaped, Page l®-~47iAwful Phenomena• of Nature,FART FOURTH,TURRICANES,,0£C.*A.• an accountO F ADreadful Hurricane, &c.Hurricane in jcmaica^ OFlober, 17 So.1 \ more ^rneral deP»ru<aioainthe ex^rnf of a <::v>’nprop rtion oflanJ, hath rarely happer.ed; and the1 hurricane of 17S0* will be ever acknowledged as avibration that defeends but once in a century, and.that ferves as a fcourge to ccrrecl the var.ity, toihu nble the p^ide, and to chaitife the imprudenceyand arrogan e of men.The following defeription, which immediatelyland naturally arofe from the melancholy'when the fa£!s were frefll, and themin', as it were,|befp--e my e^es, will not, I trull, be deemed toreigr\|to the general tendency ofthefe remarks*, and Iifball be, I hope, excufed, if I endeavour to awakenithe recolledticn of calamities pail, particularly as injthofe calamities the poor negroes had like wile their>porti(vi of difapnointment and affliAion,f This deftruftiye hurricane began by o“n*l»almoft unperceptible degrees, between twelve andone o’clock, on the morn of the 3d of Oftob* r, andin the year 1780. There fell, at firft, a ♦'nflmgrain, wividi ^Qmiuucd, withovt morcale, »«tf!l tew( A )fMocV; aiioiU which time the wind arofe, and tinicA began to roar in a moft tremendous and uncoj'ion manner. As vet, we had not any pre-fentiiment of the clifaefs and danger which it was ;f!;tenvards our unhappy fortune to encounter: a»cahhoUgh between twetied three c’clcck^in the aftrrnooDj we faw the fubordinat buildings begin t<tut ter and tall around us; }£t we did not think ineecllary to provide, at tltat time, fwr our prefenor future fafety. We row ctlervad, with fomi.( motion 3nd concerft, a j «or . pbreoti endeavourwith fruitltis lirugjtle, to regain its Eeil: it fluetered long in the air; and was to weakened at laftthat it was driven away by the wind, and in almolfi;s moment rvas carried entirely out of fioht.As great events are fometm eS the confeqrenceof final: beginnings, and as fmplc o.curences ar«often as finking as great concerns, I , ould not heljdwelling with commiferation upon what I had leenV>nd of anti< ipating, in feme nreafure, the lofs antinconvenience, thougls hot the real Hijiruflicn. o\vhat foen afterwards enfued.A poor clifeouf aged ewe, intirmW d by the t«rrers of the night, had found its way into the diftant quarter of the houfc, which, at the time oher retreat, rouft have been wholly neglcfled; buto which it was afterwards, as cur refort, ou:unfortunate ddliny t» repair. She lay with patiencold, and fcarfuk trembling, an icft toe joifls, no:could fhe be dif; laced by the importunity of kickand cuffs that were inceffcntly dealt around her]She became a pathetic fukerer in the fucceeding cafamity; and he muff base been a brute, indeed!.and more deferring of the appellation ihe bare, whcould have perfevered in forcing her from fuchleeii'tng protection, cr could have been envious othat lafetys vrkh, from her uuwll.jngnefs tt* remove, it was natural to think that fh" at that time.fnjoycd. I mu!t confefs, that [ tried to difpoir-fster, but [ trie! in vain; and I have unce reflected,■ hat he r preftrvation was as dear to her as jntnewas to me: and [ feel a real comfort in tepeatin rjhofe exquilitely humane and tender lines of Ovid,Ivhich are to feelingly descriptive of the fate of thismod uitful and patient anirna1.Every thing ciaitns a kindred in misfortune; it1 evcls like deathy but death, ala: ! to fouve comesoo kite; and to others it comes too early. In a,.Tiort time, perhaps, it was. the fate of the poc-ripteek creature -hove diferibe'd, to feel its ftrek1-.1'm'g.ht have earned, unknowingly, its execution;land might nave feafted upon its fleih. fhe very ideathills my blood, and brings to tny mind theremembrance of the dreadful fit nation cfFisr. eiwiaud.An Jiff of dire tiecefTiry may be certainly axcufed;fbut to dotlroy (for the gratideation of an appetii(which we have in common with brutes) tfyt whicitjlias been ufed to live i.i a dome flic and in a cherifh -led date around us, would argue an infenflbiiity,|from which every feeling mind mull •raturally *j-' Jvei.t: and 1 Ihould hope, that there fere but .v|people who could eat of 'hat ,‘t.id, w'hieh they haul'■ liken lick the butcher’s hand at the vt;y momentthat the knife was about to deprive its innocence t.fi: exiflence; and when it fupplicafed, within alaW.thuman cry, its prefervation or life, and with ablandiihnrent fo particularly expreiliye of tender-,nefs and pity.From the morning until four o’clock ia the ?.f.ternbon, the wind continued to blow with increaf-ing violence from the north and end: but fromthat time, having collected all its powers of devaf-tation, it ruHiei with irrefutable violence from the( 6 )feeth; and in abou: a'n hour and half after that pe¬ncil, io general and p. rirvering tver*. i's accumu-a plantain tree, adated ciledia, that it icarrely leftcane, or building, uninjured in the pariih. At)shout four o’clock, we found it,i': pcfflble to feat reinr hcufeaga’uift the increafing impctuolity ct the]which bcgntn to difplace the ihinglej, uplift |the tea f, 'to force the windows, and to’gain an en¬trance cn every fide: and its h.ufy dcftru£kio;i hotIco ful y proved how icon, and bow univerfally, itjiKceedee! We were now driven from the appart-menrs above, to tr.ke fh.c'ter in the rooms below:but there we were followed bv frefh da: g.rs, andItr pined by ffclh partes. ? lit demon of deftruc-t-.- n was wsfit'd in the vinos, and not a ccipiercould efcape its rnalbnact deva.fiatiop. While wewere looking with apprehenuon and taror aroundus the roof, roiters, plates, apd .vails of fix apai t_i • its fell jr, and immediately above cur heads:and the horrid cradles of gh-fTes, furniture, andfilers, oecafioned a noife and fcproar, that may bemore eafily frit, than the weaknefs of my pen canpoffiolv defer:he.. I v :!i not attempt (indeed my abilities and 1 in-ruage are untcpral to the talk) to awaken the len-poili!y of others, by dwcljing upon private misfor¬tunes, when the iofl'.s >f ngany are entitled to fu-ik rior regard:: hot < gotilm fecay be fui'ciy akoivedin a. narrative ui this kind, v-.beare general com pat i.ic-ns rrtut? m lomc tnesfure dcicribe individual fuf-i rings, and where whai ckc b--s le t, has beer thai t of .vun'.bgn: am! where a perfon has indemical-}’ been, anc bt'.'n involved in the fame dedruclion,•it it uiFevl: to ki tp clear < 1 c*pr< (lions that do notjn.meciatdy Ipply to, and (peak the languageklf.The n.nation oi the unhappy n.gtcea who pour-(7 )Id in up^n U5 fo (ooh as their houfes were deft’.07-d, and whofe terrors {eemed to have deprivedmem of fenfj and motion, not only very partial-';ar!y augmented the confulion of the time, but veryonfiderably added, by their whifpers and diftrefs,;o the fcene of general fufpenfe, and the fijifluati-.tins of hope and alarm. Some'lamented by antici-lation, the fo's of their wives and children, ofwhich their fears had deprived them; while othersiegretted the downfall of their houfes, of whi hihey had f • lately betr.u the unfortunate fpeifators.! It will be difficult to conceive a fku.ition moraerrible than what my houfe afforded from four/clock in the af.ernoon until fiy o’clock the enfu-ng morning. Driven, as we were, from room toitoom, while the roofs, the. floors, and '.hewvalis, weretumbling over head, or falling around us; the windblowing with a noife and violence that cannui even'low be reflated upon without alarm; the rain•■'louring do »;i in torrents; and the night which§eemed to fall, as it were in a moment, uricom-jjnonly dirk, an 1 the gloom of which we h id not aringle ray to enliven, and the length of which weIn id not either fpirits or refolution, by converfationyo cheer! the neg;o hms, as I before obferyed, wereat this tim# deftroyed; and the fniftrable ffifferersIruffied into the horde, and began fuch complaintsand lamentations, as added very conliderably to thel difeomforts, and much increafed the almoft beforeu'tfpeukable diftrd'fjs, of tlie ftene. Ore poor•woman in particular (if /-cw/philanthrophy wouldmot cVfd.iin to m ike a diferimination of colour ,wvas, in a very particular any. fenfmle manner; en¬titled to pity, -Her-child and that a favourite was• nearly buried in the ruins of her kou e that fellaround her; fi,e fnatched it, with ail che inconit-|fcrrate impatience of maternal fondneft, from the( 8 )•Xpp«3:at!un of a fudJen fate; flie firaineJ it to harms in iinipie love and unaffii'trri proteiflipn, ato depciit her tender burden in the retreatdiftant fataty; fhe flew in va'n: the teropefi: reache•her'and f'ept the child, unconicious of dangefrom her /doing arms, and daflied h'er hopes a;d ;<orn fort s' to -the ground. .She recovered, and to hebofom reftored thepleafing dtaroe: ihe eodeavyued to .focth it with her voice; but it was fl'er.ilie felt tt, and ihe found it cold: /he fcreair.ed, fllamented, and /he cur fed; ceV could onf fympat!tonfole her ferrows, our re raon Frances reft rain hviolence, nor our authority fupprefs her execratJors. She felt life a mother, although an apathimight fay fire did not feel like a Ohriithn. Whaia cold and Illiberal diftinctioni Give a Negro religmn, and eflabliiJi him in cither the principles oobedience, or the knowledge of endurance, and hWill not difgrace that tenet which ihk.il be recom,mended by pra&ice. Her lamentations w’ere natmrat, and of con/etjuence aifetfting; and give additiona! defpondency to a night that was already tccmiferable to bear an augmentation of /arrow.The darknefs of the night, the howling of the!winds, the growling of the 'thunder, and the par,tial fla/ltes of the lightning that darted through t'iicmurky cloud,, which focnetimes bur/t forth with aplenitude of iight, and at others hnrdly gave fuffl-cient lumination to brighten the terrified afpcct ofthe negroes; that, with cold and fear, wire trein!ling around; the cries of th« children w'. o were ex-poFed to the weather, and who fpoor innor entsi)had loft their mothers in the ciarkncfs an«j confulioniof the night; and the great uncertain y of generaLand private htuation combined; could not fail tofirjke the foul with as ceep as it w‘as an tinaccuf-tomed horror, in the midib 6f danger in the aw-1I ■ '( 9 ) -Ful m©merits of rufpence, and when almoft funk bylieipair, we prayed for more frequent lighuvng taIjild the walls, for more he»vy thunder to out-rcarhe blaftj in the philofophic confolation that theyinight purge the stmofphere, and difperfe theiorra: but alas! they were but feldom fern, oreebly heard, as if afraid of combining the influence’ (flight with the deffrudllon of found, and of rail¬ing upon the ground of terror, the fuperliruftureid defpair!When the night was paft, .and our minds hungjhfpended between the danger we had efaped, andn he anticipation of what we might expect to.enfue*l>'htn the dawn appeared as if unwilling to difclofes he devaftation that thfcnigbt had caufeti; when theilun-beams peeped above the hills, and illuminatedshe fctne around—.juftGod! what a contrail wasshere exhibited between that morning and the daybefore! a day which feenied to (mile upon Nature,Itnd to take delight in the pro!pedis• of plenty thativaved around, and which produced^ wherever thelye could gaze, the charms of cultivation, and the'.hronble cf abundance; but which fallacious ap¬pearances, alas! were to be at once annihilated k vkhat extenfive and melancholy view of deviationBud defpair, in which the expedlatioris of the mo¬derate, and the willies of the fanguine, were to be *o foon ingulphed. The horrors of the day weremuch augmented by the melancholy exclamation of1 tvery voice, and the energetic exprefhcu of everyland; lome of which were uplifted in afts of cxecra-t ion; feme wiped the tears that were flowing from' he eye: while fomt, confteering from vvbence ‘ .eIcifitatioh came, were icon to ftrike their breafls; -a,1 f to chide the groans which it was impoflible to re-jflxairt. An uncommon bience reigned around: 31(was the paufe of conlieriiation; it was a dumb ora-tory, that faid more, much more, than any tanaqbuld utter. The fir ft founds proceeded frommouths of the moft patient of Naturj’s creaturesfrom the melancholy (Cfar that had loft its calf, awith frequent lowings invited its return; from tn; other ewes, tl'.at with frequent bleetfngs recal:alt••1their lambs, which wTere friiking out of h;]ditconfcio-us of danger and unmindful of food:which fclemn and pathetic invitations, after fuchnighr, the contemplation of fuch a feene, and tTdifpofition of the mind to receive pathetic impreions, came home with full effect to thofe who h:fuffered* but- \Vho wiflied not to complain! !f tidiftr^tTes of the'feathered tribe be t >ken into tfcdefeription, their natural timidity, their unce: ai¬ry of rood, of flicker, and domeftic proredfion, !duly contidp-t-'atrifling astht fe obiervations mappear, they certainly help to fwell the cata ogiofdifirefs, to awaken the flgh of fenfibrlity, and ltench us that their exiftence and their end arethe hands of the fame Cr-ator,The morning cf the 4th of October prefented t|with a profpect, dreary beyond eftfeription, and api oft melancholy beyond example; and deformewith <uch blafted ligns of nakednefs and ruin,ca'amity, in its moft awful and deftrwftive menients, has feldom offered to the. defending obleirations of mankind. The face of ti e country feened to be entirely changed: the vallies and the plain;the‘mountains and the forefts, that ■ eie only tinday before molt beautifully r lothed with every vet■dure, were now defpoiied of every charm; and tan expected abundam e afid fupei fluky of gain, i'a few hours fucceedgd fberiiity and want; and everprof ect, as far as the eye could ftretclt, was vil;bly ftricker. blank with .defolation and with horrorThe powers of vegetation appeared to be one( If )fuf^ nded; aflrd inftea<l. of Nature and her wa'^ks,the mind was petrified by the feemir.g »ppretlf\ offate and chaos. The country looked as ?: it hadbeen lately vifrrd hy fire and the (word; as if theTornado had rifled Africa of its lands, to depr fittheir contents upon the denuded bofom of the hills;as if Thtna had fcorched the mountains, arrd rvvolcano had'taken poffeifion of every height. Ti etrees were up rooted, the dwellings deftroyed* andin fome places, not a ftone was left to indicate theufe to which it was once applied. Thcfe w o hadhoufes, cr>iild hardly diftingsiifii their ruin,; andthe pro xietor knew not where to fix the fituaiionol his. former pofit. iiions. The very besfls of all-del. riptions, were cortfcieus of the calamity; thebirds, particularly thedomeftic pigeons, werc^Trtoilof’them deftroy'ed; andahe fifh wer: driven fromthole rivers, and thofc -cas, of which they had be-f re btsen the peaceful inhabitants. New fir earnsarofe, and extenlive. lakes were fpread, where rillswere fcarcely feen to trickle before; and ferry-boatswere obliged to ply, where carriages were uftd to-travel with fafety and e nvenience. The roadswere for a 1 ’n r time impafi^ble among the moun-tainsf the low lands were overflowed, and numb rrof rattle were carried -away by the depth and itnpe-tunfity of the torrents; while the boundries of thedifferent plantations were funk beneath the accu-iryVated prefTur'e of the innund.Vtion.To give you at once a m*, re geaeral idea of thistremendous hurricane, 1 Ihtil cbfcrve, that rot aAngle h' ufe was left undamaged in the pariff; rjota fatgle fet of works, tralh-ffcufe, or other fubor-dinat building, that was no,t greatly injured, < tentirely deftroyed. Not a fingltj wharf, ftore houl’e,or Ih.ed, for the depofif of goods, was left ffatui-in«: they were all flvept away u, once by the billowsv 1 * ;ijf thf "f<a; and hardly left behind, the h arfiheir founda’ions. The negro houfes vere, antr,lic*e without a llnelc exception, uuiverfally bio i( )dfthe1 e lltve without a (ingle exception, uuiverfallydown and this refl ation opens a large field for lphilanthropist, whpfe feelings will ^ pity, at le; jthofe miferits which he would have been happydr^ve had the power to relieve. Hardly a 8fbrub, a vegetable, or a blade of grafs an inch loiffl:was to be leen ftandin^ up and uninjured, thefuinpt.mornir.g: nay, the very bark was whipt frc|th e h.:gwood-hedges, as they lay upon the grourrl>■ d the whole profpefi had the appearance of a ficrt, over v^hich the. burning winds of Africa hIr.fe! , padAt bavanna-!a MaP,‘ there was not evcn. avrftilof a town (the p~rts only of two or three houf|having in p rtial ruin '.remained, as if to indical(he fuuatiqn and extent of the calamity): the veilmaterials of which it had been compofed, bad bee jcarried away by the refiftlefs fury of the wave!vhich fiially tHimpirtted wh.at the wind began, ijvery great propyriion of the poor inhabitants wellcrufhed to death, or drowntd, and inonehouilaf ne, it was computed that forty, out of on^ an Iforty folds, unhappily and prcmatbrely perifhecld he ft a dro-.e with nrbgrcfiive violence for mor(jsh^n a mile into the country; and carried terronas it left c! dir u ft ion, wlrerever it palled. T’wiirge (hips and a fehooner were at anchor in thbay, but here driven a confide; able diftance frc:uthe ihpre, and totally wrecked among the mangotrees upon land. .'sVere. i to dwell upon the numberlefs Angularitiesof accidents that this dreadful florin OLC.lioned,both among the mountains and on the plains overwhich is palled; .were 1 to mention its particulari¬ties and caprices, and the variety of contingencies( T3 )Miicb fe'eiritd impoir,b!i? to happen, v.hicii'hnagi-ijnation might trifle with, but which reafon wouldfcarcely believe*, in ftiort, were I to mention whatf myfelffaw, find what numHcrs could witnefs; Iilhould be afraid to offer them to the feriaus regardbf my readers, in the dread that I might be thoughtto infult their underflandings, and to advance ashflion, what it would be very difficult, indeed, toleredit'astruth.j The didTeffes of she nlife*able inhabitants’ of Sa*k'anna-la-Mar, during the period, ar,d :or a longiJbme after the crffation; of the Perm, muft haveexceededthe moft nervous, as they would haveiiurpaffed the taeft melancholy powers of deferipti-|bn They were fuch a; ought to have affefted (if|kn;hlic Icfits and private fufferings can ever aflTeftit he finny bofoms of the rapacious, and the icyj'boWels of the interefted), they were fuch, I fay, as■luonld almoft have melted the unfeeling, and havemoftend the obdurate; but, alas! they could not, inoo many inflances, divert the rigid purpofe, anddthhol'd the rigorous hand' of the man of buflnefs,bob’ who the day before were pcffrlied, not onlyaf every douVeflic comfort, but of every teafonabieuxnry (.fl’ffe, were now obliged to leek for fbelteriprn a hoard; and were rxpoled, in ficknefs andI dihflinn, unfbehered and unprovided, to the noifyMntruflcr.s of the wind and the cold, and the fre¬quent vidtitions of the ffiower.Were! to enumerate private affl.iAions in thisVeens of general devaftation and defpair, 1 fhduldrequire the puhetic pen of that acconipblhediwriter wl'o has giver* a eh atm to grief, and a di-tgr.ity to -fuflVrirg in the tender pages of hinmajllorhet; and who could fo well have exprtiTsd: oy cerrefponding fentiment, by flowing language^iiid ^lowing truth, thofe mighty for rows which then 14 )father endkired for the death of a fun, which IJwife fuftained for the lofs of her hufijand, and Hall thole minor ties of conlanguinity and friendlflLwhich were, at this unhappy and awful period,generally difolved. 'When we conlider how very foon the gay pfuits and flatterino appearances of life are deftred; how uncertain are our poflTcflions, and lfubjeft to hopes, and how embittered by difpointments, are our purfuits; it is fomewhat extordinary, that we fhould be fo much attachedthe world, fhould entrufl the fun-fldne of our daand without fufeicion of a change, to every dofhould fommit our prefent happinds to the inftality of climate, to the viciflitudes of cold and htto the tenors of the tempefl, cr the pelhl-rmdangers of the calm:—it is allonillii-no, I ag linpeat, that we fhould repofe all our comforts, anil our exprdiations, upon a world fc. full of mortcation, dilappointment, and afftidliorj wdienmu ft be tonfeious that we mufi: fo foon leave t\worfd and ail its empty delufions behind. Wbwe look around and fee people who thought ti efelves abore the reach of want, and reclining,'a*a long apprenticefhip of patient in.'ultry and p>fevering toil, upon the lap of late-earned ind’pedenry and honed repofe; when v.e fee them !•the fruits of exertions thus in-.de, and of coinfo'thus enjoyed, in one fata! and deff rtidtive ’ our,— wJan awful IciTon does this-reHe5tion awaken in cncinds! and how mu- h does it not warn us agVi:b.iilding upon a. foundation fo eery, precariousl efr, and at the t, ft deceitful! But then to ithem reduced to this fite .ncn, and ftrugglisg \viinfirmities, without the vigour of youth, or texertions of manhood—without flicker from tweather; protection frbm power, or nytat a• ' . . ' ■ •C t5 )drink to comfort the c ills of declining nature, orintereft enongh to refeue them froij) the impend¬ing horrors of a gaol;—the accumulation of fuchmisfortunes, is more than fufficient to excite eom-1 p-’-ffen, but not always fufficient,"as we find by; melancholy example, to obtain relief.So fudden an akeration, is enough to lhake aI' philofophy that has not before been tried; andfuch a change is fufficient to exrite thofe complaintsI which are caufed by dliappointmeijt, but which! may be born with patience, and finaly,overcomefby calrr.nefs and refignation. If-Jr 'meet with af-J are -we alone unfortunate? If v.e Sole ourall, are rue the only beggars? How many are re¬duced to penury who cannot work! what numbersprriih without help, or are entevnbed a!i'>e withoutpity! and yet how many emerge from difirefs andwant, by a manly fortitude, and Ready perfeverenceof conduf.! The hand of power may opprefs; hutinnocent has its peculiar trigntph, as ntifery can¬not r- ach the grave; for that is the retreat of Vir¬tue, her confummation, and he nerd,1 c;ln hardly prevail upon mylelf to believe, thati the united violence of ail the Winds that ruffi fromthe heevens, biov n through one tub, and dirededto one fpot, could l ave occafioned Inch deftruclion,! .and in fo ffiert a Ipace of tiirte, as that of which If was an unfortunate witnoflu and of which I am now•j became the feeble recorder. If we even conclude itpofiible that the ruins of our buihiinys could have( been cccaftontd by‘the concentration of its fury,5 how are we to account for fome phenomena ofw.hii h v.'- were the fuftering'and af.ot.ilhcd-fpefta-tnrs? how account for the iudd-en irruption of ri¬vers, the bpfes of ear’h, the difunion of rocks,I the. filTures of mountains, and for other obje€ls of\ the fublime and terrible, which have changed and( ■« )disfigured the face of the country? Haw aceo'for the hollow roarings of the fea, and for the iliability of the climate for many months beforand for the dreadful pauhs that were oblervedtake p!ace9 before the buildings were entirely oveturned? It can hardly be doubted but that hcaveiand earth were combined in compleating our dflruftion. One element-alone has been hardly evknown to occafion fo extenfi^e a devaftation; arthe hidden fwelling and raging of the fea, we m;reafonab’.y attribute to the heavings of the eartlquake; to which likewife the genera! ruin of oihoufes may be in fome meafure attributed.I have feen the ruins of Lifbon; and if it wou!not alrnoft amount to folly to compare, in thplace, great things with fmall, I fhould fay. th:the ddlm&ion there, great and mehnciioly aswas, could only have been, by comparifon of buikingt and extent ofpopulation, more dreadful tli?jthat calamity which I have now the prefumption tdeferibe. The earthquake a* Lifbon happened ithe morning; add although it aln.oft univerfalialiefted its buildings, yet the productions of tinearth received, in confequence, but little damage)whereas thehurricane in Jamaica continued throughout the night, which has its particular terrors, independently of water, and of wind; and not on!blew d’.wn every thing within its fweep, but fprea^cefolation thtough the countryrtflmdgand I arapt to believe, that the peculiar diilrctles of thunhappy fuiTere-s of Savatina la-Mar, muft havequalled every thing (i ftill mean by comparifonthat is to be met with in the mofl melancholy ararials ol luimar misfortunes.To this calamity, another unfortunately fucceeded; and the confequences of which were ftill morfatal Jo the lives of thofe who had furvived th( H )hr.-. The flinch that arofe from the putrefac-pn of the dead bodies, which remained for manyl eeks'without interment (and to numbers of whichle rites of bui 'd could not be atlminiheretl), o. ea¬rned a kind of peftiience, that fwept away acat proportion of thpfe who had providentiallykiped the irril de.drucdion. Aimed every perfonthe town and neighbourhood was afTedded; and■e faculty v;ere rendered incapable^ through^knefs, to a; tend their patients, many of whom'rithed from the inclemency of "the weather, fromant of attendance, or fupply of food; and to add‘j the general apprthenf.pn, the riegroes pouredown in troops to the feene of devaluation (and, I‘n forry to obferve, that many white people weresteeled, opon the f’pot, of promifeuous plunder);bd having made free with the rumv that was float-fig in the inundations, began to grow infolent andrnruly; and, by their threats and conducl, occafion-|l an alarm which it was found neceffary, by exer¬tion and caution, at once.to fupprefs; and what thejpnfequent'es, at fuch a time of general cohfuflonlid dread, might have been, had not the puoche-tns been immediately ftaved, can t hardly, even atf s diftance of time, be reflected upon withoutrrour.<1 That the unenlightened negroes fliould be led toijUmder, when they tould do it with fafety, at; tkhert (he curbs of morality and religion to re-Hntin them, is a circumftance not to be wondered■; as it is conflflent with'the common depravity ofum an nature; but that thofe who ought to-; aheck upon that licentioufnefs whi"h they them-’dees perhaps have taught, ihouid (land forward toiveft mifrry of its laif fupport, and even plunderenury itieif of i s utmolt farthing, is a reflexionI pon thofe who can uiftinguifh black from white1/. ’ .C 18 )In the colour of the human ficin, but who canrldifcriminate what is black from white in the integ::cotju'uft of man to man. To take advantagemisfortune, in the time of public calamity and pvate affii&ion, and to raife a fuperftruclure, horet final!, upon the ruins of others; is what, al:|has been too often praftifed without chaftiiemeiand enjoyed without thamc: anil if thofe who a1in authority over negroes, and to whom they a.taught to look up for the theory as well the praflitof iiuegrity5 fhali fct an example of worldly injuitice, of rapacity and plunder—the negro who iclo \s this infamous cxnnsle, unccnfcious of t»ron:is neither a princ pal, nor an acceflary, ahho tmay pcflibly be convifted of both; while the redelinquent, who grows rich from infamy* is fufTeed to efcapc without trial, and coivftqueutly wiifout a puniiliment. 1 mu ft therefore from fadconclude, that a reformation in pra&ical manneimull begin with the white people in the colonicbefore any humane jnftitutions for the relief of thHaves can cither be carried into/fill, or even intpartial efTecl; and this preliminary 1 lhall hereater endeavour to fnppori'by corollaries drawn f: orfac'l and experience.The congratulations of the morning that luccceded the dreadful vititarion which has been thfubiedl pf thete pages, were fuch as feemed t.'.fpontaneous tifeds of what the bofom felt frem threlief of fupereir.incnt dangers: the fad occaijotfeemed to create new ideas in the mind, and to givpanir# tofetbn?, of which the heart was before nullconfcious. Many people thought that the day cjifinal fudgment was coiW; and felt it as ii it wa;then too late to reflect upon danger: for d rgerwhich implies uncertainty, would then have been ;a.pieafing idea, inalmuch as chance is contrail t( T9 )Ml'ddpair. It is the natural province of man to{!]erv it is an appendage of his condition: but itjuices a lomething more ?j learn to (ubmit, andoatitnt fubaiiflion, without complaint, to bear,f is natural to fuppofe that the ftorm above def.)ed, nmft have given rixe to many dHtreffingi patheti. Irenes; muft: upon fonre occafions hasterowed np the foul, and .upon others, have in*bed a tendernefs and pity. Hulbsuds and wives,j paren s and children, were in many placestirated by the tenors of the night and fe-atcd, as before oMerved, to meet no more: butn tliefe dreadful fcencs 1. ihali not attempt to.fell, as their reniembra'nce will furvive the de-iption of my pen, in tht melancholy perpetuitydama.I.C afflivlionn arid which numberlefs fa.ties, more or Icfs, to the deflruflio.! of theirnas, and the Jifcomfort of their lives, will long,y long, have caufe to lament,i fhal! never forget the defolate appearance myife made immediately after this catafirophe, nor:i many circumftances of diftrefs and coramifera-|) that alternatly (hocked and foftened the mind,re a poor infant was feen extracted from the,.ns, .iod its lifelefs body confined to the care andmentations of its defpo-tlding parents; there fat al»up of negroes bewailing with htavincf: of lit ait,A all the lilent eloquence of fircaming eyes; and.i*ch'd-out hands, the total deftru&ion of theire fortanes, in the wrecks of thc-ir houfes, thepkof their eiFects, and the demolition of theiriim’ds; while others ran confufedly hers andire, without Jcaowing upon what errand theye bent, or whefe to begin, or how to fet aboutreftoraiion of thc.-r lodes, ur by what philolo-io confola theh minds.fhtre wace many who vviihed to Se employedicndefing our fituatjons more conirortable butwho, from want of raethoJ, and from that hurry!which is its cohrtant vtendant, were always in'the way, and confequently did more- harm than;good. Some, indeed fucceeded in their exertions}*and Idhould little deferve thofe comforts l io focnii-found, in conip.arifon to miny others, did I not1bear witnefs to the willing indu.b'yaud unremit: i;.gapplication of the tradefmen ^nd other negroes whowere employed in the reparation of the oiEces. andin making tight thcfe parts of our temporary dwt Ulings which were deitined to the accommodation ofOurlVIfts and friends. T9:Another Hurdcjr^ :.h Jatnaica) 1701.IN aadiiion to the forementiooed calamity, thtfinhabitants of the ifl m l of Jamaica, were a-:gain viiited by this dreadful fcoui'^e of Humanity,within lefs than a twelvemonth after it happened-r-1as appears from the following extract.tCingJion, A;ig. i. 1 "St;About eight o’clock on Wednel’day evening, theill inll. a hard gale of wind came on from the fouth-ward, but foorl after veered to different p;iits of!the compels} before nine it increajed to a per feel:hurricane, and continued to rage tiii near eleven,,greateif part of the time blowing from the foufh-'Call, accompanied by a heavy and inceffant rain;,nor did the llc.nn altogether fubfide till about two;in the morning: 73 fail of veflels, including Hoops,fchooners and thaHops were on fhore bctweeaiR.jffed’s hulks and the wharf if John Vernon, i'dq;,and Co. and 1'e.vcra! others to the wellwurd of the;town, but being moftlv ligh; veffds, the greatedpart of them either have been, or will be got off,sough not without confiderable damage. The■jiter in the harbour it fuppofed to ha e rifcn boreen fuin and iive feet ^rptnditular, the plank*k of the wharfs in general being torn up, andany heavy articles that were upon them entirelyrried away; of Melds. I.aw and Haj-^reavel’sinarf, fcarte the yeftiges remain.—The greats ftrtof the returned fleet being at Po t Royal, thetaunts from thence arc ftjll more deplorable, tv.ojaded (hips being either funh or overfet, and 24h ert Ihore between Sait Ponds and Mufquitotint.IllMahT het fes and piazzas in this town were blown!r • ■ ' *,|j)wn, and two negroes found drowned in thereet?, in which torrents of water for feveral hoursin down with great rapridky.jllis'Majefly’s fliip peliran was drove upon.Mo-inflCey, and fuppofld to be totally loft; the flop’sijmpany, excepting four; wrere prdVidentially faved.Three Vcflsls were dro-ve ,aflrore in the harbr.urjJ Mart’ia krpe; the fli’p RoLt*»k, of New-"York,l efloop Beaver, and a floop belonging to King*on; the lirft is totally 1.11, the other two will be•It off.'I The {hip Orange B.iy, which went aflicre neare Twelve Apoftles, contrary to all expectation,s been got off. A conGderable part of the car¬ies of ieveral other veffcls, that were drove onore near that place, has been faved.r His Majefiy’s fhip Southampton, after having had| engagement with a French frigate off Cape Fran-'is, was by the late ftcrm difmafled and 'driven to'reck Rift' to the leewerd of Fort Royal, wheree ne w remain?; the Vaughan and feveral etherfh Is are gone to her aflifunce.J he ilonu very unfortunately proves to have beenneral throughout the iflund, though not equally( 22 )violent: in Wetlmoreland, St. Ann’s,and St. M/. jth'e canes have received contderahle dn:na^e, 1the plantain walks, together with the ripening eljhave been tctallv deftroyed; the other pa: ^l]particularly thofe to windward, have fufFeredmuch fefs de^rde.OMontegoThe ftorm on "Wednerday the ift of Augultclone much damage to our fhipping; it has drafhore two (1'ips, the Chriftiaa and Juno, a filveffe! of-Niel’s, and a brig belonging to Cap:. AIHamilton, is totally loft, and himfelf anddrowned; M'Kay’s wharf is carried away: Drs P£jney and Rnecaiile, MtTrs. Blake and Ingles’shoufes and ftores are thrown down; all the pnliiiiin and fine crops of corn are deftroyed; the ca lare all laid flat, and there is hardly an cftat*||in buildings.Kingih ntWeftmcreland but has fufferedUlylTes. which crme here from20,cool, a part of the parliamentary grant to(ufferers by. the Ttorm in Ottober laft, has b|drove to Fea, together with a brig out ol Bluefieit.and, through the whole pjrifh of St. Elifabeth, ||provifions in general are deftroyed, and the cakgreatly damaged. •The accounts from Hanover are equally unfav frable,St. Mary’s, St. Ann’s, and Trdawny, have )fufFcred very confiderably in their provifions ; Lcanes.On Sunday laft .the fliip Ulyfies, , ThoEfq; commander, went into Lucca harbour un |jury mafts, with the lofs of her bowfprit, being {<the damage we underftand Ihe has fuftained.Le-ttcrs received from vSt. Elizabeth inentithat the Icarcity of pavilions for the negrig-fo great, in confe<iuenct of the lad ftorjn, ti( 23 )jany cf the ii.habitants are obliged to pr.rchafe■rn at the exhorbitart price of a bit for fix ears,eerly to keep their P.aves from, pcrllhing untilher provHions can be procured,lit is yet impofiible to fay v.hat number of livesve been loll in this firead-ful calamity; but th*yuft be numerous; in one plantain brm only,ne per Tons perilled; as did the crew of the^uby’sat, at Port Rcval. in endeavouring to ailift avel«in diftref* !<)0n ifter the ftorm came on.i.dinbvrgb Advcrtifer^ Nov, 6, 1781*Tornado in Scotland, July, 1799.’’Ornado. The fallowing interefting account ofill this awful p aem menon, which took place atrhitela v, in the parifh of Ednam, Berwi, kfhire,r the 3d curt, we copy from the Kcljo Mail.“ The weather through the day had been calm,th loft fiiowers. At teven o’clock in the even-ir there was obferved by many pe( pie, a little toI: fouth-well of Mr. Tod’s houi'e at Whitelaw,sderde light coloured cloud of a very uncommonmearance. It rtfembled an inverted cone, reach-•ft from the ground to a conliderable height in theitiofphere. Its motion towards the houfe was flowt!i majeilic. a perfon of no great agility on leeingapproach could eafily have efcaped.from it. ft;an at length to whirl round wfth great rapidity,;r ion’.pamed with a hjud,rattling noife. The efiedfca Us amazing power was firlt exhibited upon a large; kof flraw in the barn.yard, which It raifed m■ *: mafs to a confiderabie height in the air. Aon of timber, lying flat on the ground, was hurl-rjdfrom its piat e feveral feet; and it will be thoughtSoft to exceed credibility when it is mentioned,,t this beam was thirty-three feet long! Smallj.i’ ics were heaped together in mounds as if byiood. The farm-efficcs v^cre materially injured;( 24 )fo;ne of them, iadeed, were airwofi entirely flu Atheir tiies.“ Human ftrength was mere weaknefs when«pofed to this war of elements. A Ifout young llow, who had witneffed the fcene in the barn-yafrom an apprehenfion that the houfe muft need]riiy be tumbled down, run out for fafety. The ]f!iHds enemy, however, lifted him over a wall f|feet high, and carried him forwards for thirty^forty yards!—Several of the fervants were forci?driven about, fome in one direction and feme iitjt'other, according to the eddy.' The horfes atattle upon the farm exhibited the livdieft fyntoms of alarm and agitation. . •The dwelling houie at White-law, in which tfamily refided at the time, fhook with fuch violentas to threaten its deftuxUion and theirs. Provid:tially, however, amidft alf the devaftation, no pfou was materially hurl-, and, what renders this tmore remarkable is, that the tiles whi.h were t«from the fiirrouuding offices fell from an immeheight, in vaft numbers, among tke people expoto the ftorm.‘‘ Before the cloud reached the farm houfe it ffortunately divided, and th? two parts taking differdirections, only one of them Uruck the byildirHad the whole collected force difwharged itfelfonce, few, it is probable, would have furvivedlrelate the particulars.“ There was little rain at Whitelaw either imediately before or after the whirlwind; but in'adjacent country, to the north and owing, ifuppofed, to the viblent concuflion of the cloithere was a torrent of rain, and in fome places mfor a few minutes, as had not been obfc-rved inmemory of man.— Edinburgh Weekly Jiurnal, Nc-