CHEAP TRACTS, No. 8,look of Knowledge 5CONTAININGGARDENERS’ CALENDAROP WORK TO BE BONE IN EACH MONTH.CONOMICAL RECEIPTSANDSEFUL INFORMATIONON VARIOUS SUBJECTS.3inotDfctig£ i£ Ipntocr.jpBooh of KnowledgeGARDNERS’ CALENDAR.JANUARY.Ix'mild weather, sow early pease and belikewise radishes, cresses, and lettuceswarm sheltered situations. Sowseeds pretty thick; and iff rest set in str>spread some dry long litter over the bIn mild weather, if formerly omitted, prapple, pear, cherry and plume trees ;gooseberries and currants. Plant fruitforest trees, thorns, and other hardy shrin open weather. Turn up strong soimeliorate w ith the frost; also such floborders as are empty, to be in readinesthe time of planting. In hard frosty weacarry dung, and be careful of tender s>ling trees, shrubs, evergreens, Sec. bytering them from the frost.sFEBRUARY.Sow more pease and beans for a succeS-on ; also radishes, lettuces, cresses, parsely,c. Spinage may be sown every three orHir weeks, to have a constant supply ,so a few cabbage and savoy seeds aboutlie end of the month. A few onion seedslay be sown about the middle of the month,hich often do better than those sown lat-■r. Prepare ground fcvr potatoes, onions,.id other roots. Gather fresh horse dung) prepare for making up hot beds for cu-umbers and melons. As green houseilants will require fresh air at all times,hen the season will permit, a little may be,iven about mid-day, if the weather is mildKid clear, and the wind still ; and waternay be given in small quantities to suchjlmits as want it, picking off all decayedcaves. Plant ranunculuses and anemonies.ow tender annual flowers, on a moderateuit-bed.MARCH.Make small hot-beds for raising cucum-rers and melon plants. Plant some earlyictatoes- on a warm sheltered situation,overing them, in frosty evenings, with lit-:er or pease straw. About the middleow brocoli, cabbages, savoys, asparagus,4.md onions ; also cauliflowers, leeks, eamjjturnips &zc. and pease and beans every fefnight, for a succession. Plant out calw -*■- AMI IL will i*ages and savoys, artichokes, and asparaghow all kinds of hardy annual flower sein the open ground, and the tender kim a moderate hot-bed, in pots. Fiiplanting fruit and forest trees, and giiuit trees. Plant gooseberries, curraistrawberries, and raspberries. Transpl;all kinds of sweet herbs; also perennnbrous-rooted and herbaceous plants, aevergreens. Make box edgino's.o ftAPRIL.This month requires the greatest exdtions of any in the year with the garden*the ground being ready to receive whatevis planted or sown. Sow pease and beaand sallads, every ten or fourteen dajPlant potatoes, and transplant cauliflowerlettuces, &c. Sow parsley, celery, endivpurslane, and pot and sweet herbs. Hrpease and beans, and sow more to keep ea succession; stick tall growing pease whefour or five inches high, and top beans whecome to their full height. Thin out onioncarrots, turnips, spinage, &c. Plant eveigreens in moist weather, and all kinds cflowering shrubs: Sow French beans i;dry weather. Water new planted trees ir5dry weather. Clear gravel walks, and formthrift and box edgings Sow all kinds ofhardy flower seeds. Transplant tenderannual flowers from the hot-bed.ir- MAY.Sow cabbages, cauliflowers, and savoys,for a late crop, and transplant those former¬ly sown, when ready. Sow full crops ofFrench and Turkey beans; marrowfat andevery other kind of pease. Every week,during the summer months, sow lettuces,&c. for a constant supply of salad. Earthup celery, and thin onions, carrots, turnips,and spinage, where necessary, taking careto leave the strongest plants. Plant cu¬cumbers under hand glasses. Water indry weather, young fruit trees, and protectthe roots from the heat, with short grasslaid round the stems. Cut box edgings.Nail up young shoots of wall-trees, and tieespaliers with twigs of the golden willow.Remove plants out of the green-house, andplace them in a shady sheltered border,observing to water them duly.WLj1 JUNE.Continue to plant cabbages, cauliflower,and savoys, tor a late crop. Plant outleeks and brocoli. Transplant celery, en-6dive, and lettuces; and sow rallad seocuevery eight or ten days. Sow full crops t sturnips, both ) ellow and white; also flelf*turnip, white, green, red, and SwedishSow beet, red, white, and green, in drillfiabout an inch deep, and ten or twelve inch* 1distant. Hoe beans and pease; top thliformer, and stick the latter. A few of tt 1early kind of each may be sown the first c:second week for the latest crop. Gatin Jand dry sweet and pot herbs as they com rto bloom. Train wall trees and espalier £Secure young trees against wind, and warter them in dry weather. Mow graj;walks in the morning, before the dew is of tGlean and roll gravel walks.JULY.Plant more cauliflowers for autumn ; amcabbages, savoys, brocoli, and leeks fowinter. If any vacant ground, sow tuinijcarrots, onion, winter spinage, kidney bean*endive, &c. Towards the end, plant sweeherbs. Transplant celery, more cabbage*and cauliflowers, on the ground where thinearly pease are done. Water, in dryweather, always in the evening. Dun£and dig ground for full crops of wintersgreens and cabbage to be planted nextmonth.7AVGUST.f any seeds were omitted to be sowni month, finish now. Sow cabbage andkinds of greens to stand through theiter for plants in spring: also cabbage1 Dutch lettuces on warm borders, foriter use. Earth up celery, and plantI more. Clean asparagus beds. If room,nt more brocoli, cabbage, &c. Aboutmiddle sow cauliflower and pricklynage. Gather onions, garlic, and allset herbs. Clip thorn hedges, and pareift edgings.SEPTEMBER.Plant strawberries and box edgings,ansplant celery, lettuce, endive and alleigreen shrubs. Look over wall-treesd espaliers, and fasten straggling branches,•epare ground for planting fruit trees,ig up all vacant borders, and clean andII gravel walks. Destroy snails, cater-llars, and other vermin. Slip and tran->lant fibrous-rooted plants and flowers.OCTOBER.In this and the three following months,ung, dig, and trench all vacant ground, tore ready for spring crops, covering in thelung well. Plant out early cabbages to8cut irt May. Towards the middledearly pease and beans, and earth then*v. nen two inches high. About theplant all kinds of fruit trees ; and, bthe frost sets in, gooseberries,currants,and flowering shrubs. All kindtrees, whether fruit or forest, transted this month, will thrive better thanDress wall-trees and standards. PrJground for planting trees.F* rNOVEMBER. ^• iFinish planting gooseberries, eurr. 1rasps, and flowering shrubs; also fruit titorest trees, putting loose dung round listerns to preserve them from frost. ►-more early pease, beans, and a few radk ion a warm border. Plant all kind tbulbous rooted flowers, and some anewmcs and ranunculuses. Secure artichcand asparagus beds from the frost,covering them with loose dung. A snhot-bed frame may be kept profitabhiwork all winter in raising small salads, sas radishes, cresses, parsley,Ac. Plant ca|flowers upon warm sheltered borders^!under hot-bed frames or hand glasses.DECEMBER.In mild Weather continue to sow pelsand beans for a succession. . Cover yoritichokes with loose dung, to keep thel ots from frost, if omitted last month,i rune gooseberries, currants, and thin out:;sps. Dig and dung all spare ground;lid dung and prepare borders on walls foruung fruit trees in March, if omitted toj'i planted last month. Fasten young fruit•ees with stakes. Gather all rubbish andurn it; and in frost carry out dung.IRECTIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF ACOTTAR’S GARDEN,OF TWENTY FALLS OF GROUND.Falls of early Potatoes. 2 Falls of Leeks & Onions., do. late do. 2 do. Pease,do. early Cabbage. 1 do. Beans.EBRUARY, third or fourth week, sow Pease andBeans, plant early Cabbage, likewise Greens andlate Cabbage.Iarch, second or third week, plant early Potatoes,likewise some late ones, and the remainder inApril. In the third and fourth week, sow Leeksand Onions, Carrots and Turnips, and sow someearly Sugar-Loaf Cabbage seed for summer andautumn use.do. late do.do. Savoys.. do. Greens.I do. Carrots.do. early Turnips.0^ do. late do.Total 20 Falls.April, from the beginning to the end, sow Peand Beans.May, first or second week, plant early Cabbages.July, first or second week, plant Greens for wiuse, in any ground from which the early crops h abeen gathered.August, third or fourth week, sow early Cabbaa*Greens, and late Cabbages to plant out in 9spring.GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.In dry and warm weather take care to water ’seed-beds and plants lately moved ; secure the set *beds and pease from birds ; destroy insects ; and 1.1out the crops in the seed-beds, if too thick.At all times keep your garden clean from wee);)especially your crops of carrots and onions. Cutly a small part of the potatoes with eyes for plantii 3the remaining part may be saved for use. Two eyin each set are enough.Dig the ground as soon as the autumn cropstaken off; lay it up in ridges, that it may have ?benefit of the frost.It is of great benefit to keep bees. Three hHfare often worth as much as your rent: they requj \but little attention; they should be watched wbthey swarm ; and the hive must be covered from II tsnow in winter, and the heat of summer.The produce of the garden will be in proportiSto the care taken of it; don't waste any thing tlicar. be converted into manure.Keep the hog sty^s clean ; the hogs improve mo»-and the garden is enriched. To the mine of dmfrom the styes, add the decayed leaves of the vejtables, and what the hogs will not eat, such as tsoot and ashes from the chimney and fire, the su| ri the washing till*, the sweeping from the floors• ht house. Cuttings of Weeds frbiii the side of roads,i h all other articles Which Will nridtfe ttiatrtire. t'huS,! he same time that every thing (rbout you is keptin and tidy, you will be well piid for your care.ECONOMICAL RECfelPfS ANDtJSEFUL INFORMATION.Economy in planting Potatoes.he eoiflmefn mode of planting potatoesy getting the small roots entire ; bi, fcu-t-ng the latget ones to pieces, end teseHihghe eye of bud to each: it apneats, how*ter, that the rind may be employed Withqual advantage; at Crops have thut beChproduced, which fully equalled those ot*lained from seeds, sets, shoots, of *ny)ther method.POTATOES.A Gentleman near Renfrew, has prosecutedan experiment on the effect of pulling theflowers or blossoms from the Potatoes, with12great care and attention, in fields of thacres, each year, by taking alternate rtions of equal area in the same field ; iling the blossoms from some of th ddivisions, and leaving others to ripen 8seed ; attending in the Autumn, when 11Potatoes were taking up, and measuri1?.the produce with great care, he unifomtnfound the quantity increase 10 or 15 }}rcent, where the blossoms were taken c,besides there being very few small Pot**toes in the field. He also found the quaity much improved in consequence of tcrop ripening sooner than usual, and the«fore not affected by the frosts, which oft)set in so early that the growth of the Pot jtoe is completely checked before it arriv*at maturity : he has continued the practkifor the last five or six years, on fields fro :>four to nine acres, and considers tlexperiment worth prosecuting to any e?!tent: the expence about 3s. per acre, an:done by children from ten to twelve yeanof ageFfjst-bitten Potatoes.After paring or scraping let them lidin water an hour, and then boil themiwith a bit of saltpetre, which is said totake the sweetness quite away.13To prevent Curl in Potatoes.A Farmer states, that it is well ascertained,and proved by documents the most un¬questionable, that the cause of curled pota¬toes is from allowing the crab of the pota-toe to remain on the plant; for when thecrab has been cut off, the future sets havealways proved free from the curl.It is also necessary that the potatoes forsets should be reaped before the stem iswithered. And the matter worthy of re-rntiark is, that a green potatoe top cut off ini June, at the length of six to eight inches,and pricked into the ground in moist wea-i ther, will produce good potatoes in October.A method of keeping Potatoes('Was lately and successfully tried, by thei patriotic Bath and West of England• Society. It consists simply in slicing po¬tatoes without taking off the rind or skin,i and afterwards drying them in an oven orkiln. The roots thus prepared will remaini sweet for almost any length of time : the[ Society sent some to Jamaica in a barrel;i which had been four years from Britain,tand on their return, were found not to bein the least degree affected.14To make Potatoe Bread.Put a pound of potatoes in a net, into ismall kettle with cold water, and (lest thdskin break, and let in the Water) hang it aa distance (so a*> not to boil) over the firetill they becofue soft *, then skin, mash, antnib them so as to be well mixed with ipound of flour, a very large spoonful osalt, and two large spoonfuls of yeast; buless of the yeast is better. Then add jTittle warm water, and kned it up as othedough ; lay It a little while before the fir«to ferment or rise, then bake it in a very hooven.Remedy far Frost-bitten Potatoes.Frost-bitten Potatoes, and all othe: ivegetables, as fruit, &c. are restored to thei 2natural taste ana flavour by being steepen*in cold water twelve hours before boiledhPotatoes are also preserved from decay hithe latter season by being dried on a kiln ior any other convenient way.Method of destroying Insects on Fruit TreaFlour of brimstone, sprinkled by a puf 1dredging box, or otherwise, on the leave15,f vegetables, will effectually destroy worms; nd insects, and likewise promote the:;rowth of the plant.—Peach trees are par-icularly improved by the a])plicationwVo remove the teste of Turnips from Milkor Butter.: The taste of the turnip is easily takenbff milk and butter, by dissolving a littlenitre in spring water, which being kept inT bottle, and a small tea cup full put intoI sight gallons of milk, when warm from thei low, entirely removes any taste or flavouraf the turnip.A cheap Blacking for Shoe*.In three pints of small beer, put two ouncesiOf ivory black, and one pennyworth ofbrown sugar. As soon as they boil, puta desert spoonful of sweet oil, and thenboil slowly till reduced to a quart. Stir itup with a stick every time it is used; andput it on the shoe with a brush whenwanted.16ANOTHER.Ivory black, two ounces; brown sugarcone ounce and a half; sweet oil, half fttable spoonful. Mix them well, and the)tlgradually add half a pint of small beer.Chinese method of mending China.Take a piece of flint-glass, beat it to a fin tpowder, and grind it well with the whit iof an egg, and it joins china withourivetting, so that no art can break it in th*tlsame place. You are to observe that thalcomposition is to be ground extremely finalon a painter’s stone.I o take Iron Moulds out of linen.Hold the Iron-mould on the cover of atankard of boiling water, and rub on the)spot a little juice of sorrel and a littlessalt, and .when the cloth has thoroughly!imbibed the juice wash it in lie.17f Economy in Fnd >^ -liet the coal ashes, which are usuallythrown into the dust binn, be preserved ina corner of the coal hole, and add to themfrom your coal heap, an equal part of thesmall coal or slack, which is too small to beretained in the grate, and pour a smallquantity of water upon the mixture. When.you make up your fire, place a few roundcoals in front, and throw some of this.mixture behind; it saves the trouble ofshifting your ashes, gives a warm andpleasant fire, and a very small part onlywill remain unburnt.To prevent the effects of Excessive Cold.Persons are in danger of being destroyedby it, when they become very drowsy, orare affected with general numbness or in¬sensibility of the body. As the cold whichproves fatal generally affects the feet first,great care should be taken to keep them aswarm as possible.]. By protecting them, when you areexposed to cold, with wool, or woollensockets, within the shoes or boots, or withlarge woollen stockings drawn over them ;or, when you ride, with hay or straw wrap¬ped round them.1*2. By keeping up a brisk ciiculation i»|tthe blood-vessels of the feet, which will be >the best preserved by avoiding tight boots ior shoes, by moving the feet constantly. Orwhen this is impracticable, from a confined!situation, and two or more persons are ex¬posed together3. By placing their feet, without shoes,agahist each other’s breasts.If, notwithstanding these precautions, aperson should be rendered sleepy or insen¬sible by cold, he must exert himself; andmove about quickly; for if he shouldsleep in the cold he will inevitably perish. !The person thus affected should be kept1from the fire; for acrid applications ofevery kind are very injurious.To prevent danger from Wet Clothes.Keep if possible in motion, and take care *if possible not to go near a fire or Into anyfiwarm place, so as to occasion a sudden heat,|till some time after you have been able tofprocure dry clothes.Accidents incident t? Children jrom fire.A child should never be left alone in anysituation where he may be exposed to thdIdstructive demerit of fire. We dailylar of children that have been burned toath, in consequence of their clothe*ving caught fire; yet, it is surprising,at the frequency of these afflicting evehfses not possess persons with an idea ofe most effectual methods of ejctinguish-g the fire. In general, an attempt is■ade to tear off the burning clothes frome sufferer, which should never be done,he clothing, instead of being torn off,ight to be pressed close to the body, andhatever is at hand wrapped over if, so as• exclude the air, when the blaze will golit; for it is the action of the air thatseps it alive, and increases the vehemence.. carpet, a table cloth, a blanket, a dothoak, any close wrapper, will instantlyIctinguish it.To prevent Infection.lix in a plate, a few ounces of pulverizedlack oxyde of manganese and commonalt, which being placed in the house sup-i>osed to be STifected, sprinkle oil of vitriolipon the mixture, and gas will arise whichvill render the place perfectly salubrious.The oil of vitriol should be carefully added>y a few drops at a time, the face beingumed from the mixture.20To relieve Fainting and other Fitsi1 he person ought to be immediately calinto the open air, and the temples. sh|be rubbed with strong vinegar and braand volatile salts or spirits held to theiThe patient should then be laid onback with the head low, and have awine or other cordial poured intoniouth. If subject to hysteric fits, ci.or assafoetida should be applied to the i: 1or burnt feathers, horn, or leather.To relieve sudden Bleedinsr.® sDry lint put up the nostrils, pledgets)lint dipped in spirits, or weak solutioniib.ue vitriol, or from ten to twenty drl)of oil of turpentine tak^n in water genetlly stop discharges of blood.To restore suspended Animation, jIn cases of substances being stopt betw*the mouth and the stomach, where tfccannot be extracted by the fingers or othwise, the person should swallow a piece i21ieat or tow tied to a thread, which shoulde immediately drawn up again. Emeticse sometimes serviceable, and injections ofarm milk and water frequently remorvele obstructions. When animation is sus-mded by noxious vapours, the usuallethods in fainting should be employed,id lemonade or vinegar and water given»the patient as soon as he could swallow.When it proceeds from extreme cold,ie party affected should be immersed in«d water, or rubbed with snow till theycover their natural warmth.For a Cold and Cough.°f-linseed’ Uvo penny-^th of stick-liquorice, and a quarter ofP ™d °ff SUn ra,isins’ Put to quartsr^t water, and simmered over a slowe, till reduced one-third or more; add>ereto a quarter of a pound of sugar-can-' pounded, a table-spoonful of old rum,1 a table-spoonful of white wine vinegarlemon-juice. Note—the rum and vfne-r should be added only to the quantityinch is *bout to be taken immediately,nnk half a pint at going to bed, or aKui quantity at any time when the coughtroublesome. &22For a cold, bathe the legs and feet pawarm water at night, and take, going n*,fbed, a drink of hot whey, with 4 grains.jyIf a sore throat, tie round it three or fadfolds of flannel sprinkled with spirits.Method oj restoring Life to the apparen rDrowned.Avoid all rough usage. Do not hold up tbody by the feet, or roll it on casks, or rutwith salt or spirits, or apply tobacco. Mnot a moment, carry the body, the head alshoulders raised, to the nearest house. I lait in a warm room. Let it be instantly striHped, dried, and wrapped in hot blankelwhich are to be renewed when necessausKeep: the mouth, nostrils, *and the tint Ifree and clean. Apply warm substandto the back, spine, pit of the stoma,arm-pits, and soles of the feet. Rub t.body with heated flannel, or warm ban .Attempt to. restore breathing, by gen* lblowing with bellows into one nostjKeep up the. application of heat. Priemithe: breast carefully with both hanti23land then let it rise again, and thus imitatenatural breathing. I ontinue the rubbing,and increase it when life appears, and thengive a tee-spoonful of warm water, or ofvery weak wine or spirits and warm water.Persevere for six hours. Send quickly formedical assistance. »Warts.Cut an apple, and rub it for a fewminutes over the wart; the juice of theapple will loosen the wart, and in a few daysit will drop off. Any strong acid, eithervegetable or mineral, has the same tendency.Corns.Mr Cooper, in his Dictionary of Surgery,gives the following recipe as infallible forthe cure of corns:—.Take two ounces ofgum ammoniac, two ounces of yellow wax#six drams of verdigris, melt them together,and spread the composition on a piece of1 soft leather or linen ; cut away as much ofthe corn as you can with a knife before youapply the plaster, which must be renewedin a fort’night, if the com is not by thattime gone:24Method of making Yeast.The following method of making yeaslflfor bread is easy and expeditious. Boil oru "pound of good flour, a quarter of a pouncof brown sugar, and a little salt, in twa*gallons of water, for ♦n hour; when millwarm, bottle and cork it close; it will be fh tfor use in 24 hours. One pint of it wil-rmake 18lbs of bread.For Burns or Scalds.When the blisters are open, dress their [JWith a simple white ointment spread thinlyon the smooth side of lint, the first day, ant 6every day after sprinkle a little powder oi >prepared chalk, and dress it as before. Tcalleviate the immediate pian, apply any?iquick evaporating fluid, as aether, spirits oiwine, or brandy ; or better than all, if athand, spirits of turpentine, or rags dippedin vinegar and water, and often renewed. .r.; •7'io/r 'B ino ; nonF J N.'l S.i dofdv. ^1;j yd ion si n*iOD sdi ti ,inginjioi a niltsnog 9trtii|