THEPROPHECIES0 FThomas Rymer,The Ancient Scots Prophet.WHEREIN IS CONTAINED,Remarks on what is already come to pals:With fome carious Obfervations onwhat is yet to come.Carefully Collected artu Compared whk*Ancient Old Prophecies, and the Bookof Arms.*BY THE FAMOUSMr. ALLAN BOYD, M, A.To which is added,AN ACCOUNT OF THE MEMORABLEBATTLE of BANNOCKBURN,Fought in the Year 1314.FALKIRK;Printed by T. Johnston,And fold at his Printing-Office in wholefale and ret&TMjDCCjXCVIII.■ASHORT ACCOUNTO FSir THOMAS LEARMONT,Commonly called,THOMAS the RTMER.'CIR Thomas Lear^ont, commonly calla^ Thomas tbc Rymer, was born in the er.cornev of Fife, oi a good family. JHis Prphefies have been mere credited than aithat were ever recorded in the Scots Chroicle, as they have been well attelled, whatthem is palR and what they allude to, in thprefent esntury and period, and of his dafayings yet to come.He told many myflical prophehes aneall the kings of Europa, and what tell caccording to his prediction, m this ancickingd^fti of Scotland; what is palt,-preleand to come. , TThis brief account is taken from the tcords of Cryle, near which place he was Lxand brought up. .^- Am(35His. father \ras faid to {*e LairJ of B&-•comie ; and the Records of that family is ex¬tant in the R-olls, for their afliiling at-feveraiCouncils for the honour of Scotland. AndSir Thomas Rymer’s Prophefies and layingsare flill held in efteem.He lived *in the reign of Alexander HI.King of Scotland, in the year One thoufand,two hundred and forty-eight, much regarded,and knighted by that king that fame year.The firft of his propheiies ever taken to befaithfully obferved, was. That there Ihouldbe a ftorm on a certain day, that would fur-prife all Scotland. N.c?w, fome gentlemenbeing with him that day, they began to jokehim, and-faid, Sir Thomas, you are now mif-taken, and we fhall Hay and fee your miftake,as we have heard fo much of your prophelies.He told them to Hay an hour longer, and theywould fee and believe. And in lefs time thanthe hour, an exprefs arrived to Sir Thomasfrom Edinburgh, of the death of Margaret,Queen to Alexander III. who died that day.Upon receiving the news, Sir Thomas toldthem that this was the Horm, and it wouldgive rife to greater commotions it Scotland.After the death of Queen Margaret, theKing married Ifabel, daughter to the Earlof Driux: And Sir Thomas told,,within a fewmonths,* of an earthquake at Kinghorn, thatwould make Scotland tremble. An exprefsaccordingly came to Clyde, to Sir Thomas,( 4 )that the King had fallen from his h rfe atKing-horn, and broke his neck, which hap- ]pened accordingly. After the death of Alex¬ander, he left no heirs, except a grand-' child, Margaret, daughter to the King ofNorway, who alfo fcon died; but a fhort timebefore her death, flie was betrothto Edward,King of England. After this there was greatcommotions anent the fuccehion to the crownof Scotland, which occafioned great bloodfhed,particularly betwixt Bruce and Baliol, winchyou have recorded in the Scottifh Hiflories.The pride -of Spain, and the decehful con¬duit of the French, as . alfo concerning theDutch, is all foretold. Likewise the Scotsbattles, at Tor-wood, Bv thwel-bridge, Mal-plackie, Shirreff-Tnuir„ Prcud-Prefirn, nearGladfmuir, Falkirk, Cullode-n, and the Camps jin Morayfliire, and on the Wind-mill-braeat Aberdeen, by Gerlerai Coup. And atDunbar.In forty-f: vex eighty- two anil three^Sir Thomas Works doth certife.As to his prophetical fayings, they are hardto be underftood, becaufe they are pointed outby the Coats of Anns, which appertain to foYu -.sy different Kingdoms and perfens. Yet$13 > bferve how he has pointed out plain¬ly, many '‘things which has come to pafs inc .. . ' > • fuch as the extirpation of the noble’race of tTie Stewarts, the Revolutlgi, Sherri^^muir: Where he fays, -Three Ships and a Shield,That day Jhall keep the jield.And be the Antelope*t build*Thefe three Ships and a Shield are in. theJDake of Argyle’s Arras.And even every particular of the rebellion?jin 1745 and 46: When pointing at it, he fays,A Cbieftan uncbofenShall cboofe forth himfelf.And rule the realm as bis oi»n<"When fpeaking of King Charles, he callshim, “ A fly fox-bird, who would turn to“ Chrifl, with the wyles of tods and foxes.”Meaning his fwearing of the covenants.When fpeaking of the Battle of Prefton-pans, in the year 1745, he names the veryt wo neighbouring villages to-the fpot of groundwhereon it was fought, viz. Goyfeford-greentand Seton, faying, “ Between Seton and the“ fea, furrow ftiould be wrought by the light“ of the moon.” Which ad really came topafs, that morning the battle of Prefton-Panswas fought. But how the Lion was hurt atthis time, and'not perceived, is yet a myltery.Some are of opinion, that it was by takingaway the power or fuperiority from the Chief;of the Highland Clans, fo that they cannotraife men in fuch a Ihort time as formerly.fhefe are a few of the obfervations wemake on things already come to pafs; andv w ( 6 ■)as to what, is yet to come, there- is feme re¬mark will yet happen, when the time drawsnigh : SMh as, “ When Tarbet’s Craigs are4‘ tumbSan into the fea : .And the next leafonramer thereafter, great forrow and1 blobdflted happen to this realm, the chief64 thereof, -erpeaially fuch as harling on fleds,1:1 and chopping off heads.5’ This TarhetHands near the root of the river Clyde: butwhether its being tumbled into the fea, fhallhappen by an earthquake, thunder, or by thehands of men, is a myitery unknown.There is alfo mention made of a Lord with,.a lucken or double hand, which certainly is-of royal blood, and will breed great ftir and. confufion in Britain. This man is alive inthis very prefent age, and of the Stewart’s, race, now in Italy. There is plainly pointedcut, that in his time, a great battle, fiiall befeen in Fife,M Wberg facMled Lorfcs Jl:ou!d be fcen,s / Tied unto the trees green.Not only in Fite,, but the four chief riversofihe realm, there iliould be a battle on eachof them, that fhould make the rivers run withblood, viz. Ttveed, Clyde, Forth and Tay.Laft of all, a bloody, defperate battle .inNorthumberland, ca the river Tyne. Alfog^eat havock and Laughter • bout the breadwalls of Berwick. All thefe things are yttf .come, iff pefs : and when the fifft appears,.-the reft will foon follow-after.rBSMAXtKABLE PREDICTIONOFTHOMAS the RYMER,concerningTHE UNION.■ , 'When Hempe it come, and alfo gone,Scotland England yj#// be one.Henry, 'Edward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth.^III. VI.- of Spain,M’s Hofb,H ,E lM P E.Praifed be GOD alone,For Hempe is come and gone,And left us old AlbionBy peace join'd in one.The explication of the above predidionconcerning Hempe being come, and alfo gone.(§5-and leaving Scotland and England joined inone, is fulfilled in the late King William,who came out of Holland, which in old timeswas vulgarly called the land of Hempe : Andthe joining of the two nations together, figni-Ses the Union.Thefe things were foretold by the twoScots Prophets, in the reign of King Arthur.Firft, by the marvellous Merling, who is faidto be got by a Devil, who ravilhed a youngwoman, his mother, in a wood near Cold-ilream, im the South of Scotland. Afterwardsto the fame purpofe, thefe and many moreItrange things-were foretold by Thomas Ler-mont,vulgarly called Thomas Rymer, btcaufehe fpoke all his prophetical fayings in rhyme,and fo darkly, that they could not be underftooduntil they came to pafs.But of all the Prophets that ever were inScotland, there never was.any of them whoattained to fuch cred’t, becaui'e many of hispredictions referred to our own country, andwere accomplifhed in the laft and prefentcentury.In Scotland many Prophetsthere have been ;But none like f hornets Rymer■ e'er 'was Seen ls.Several O'-htrOLD PROPHECIESOf Thomas PcYMer,iVhir h are either not yet fulfilled, or theirfignificution not property dijcovered.— ooooooocooo nPHOMAS the Rymer, coming from the4- Skaitraw, near Dunbar, upon June i2io„looked round him, and laid,Thou Scotland ihall lament; for thy kyth,and kin will be taken from thee, and thy;nobler banifhed to foreign lands.On the fides of the Forth, wonders fhallbe (een and heard.The brave coalt of Fife fliail mourn ; andthe three Lothians fhall have a deadly turn.Lsrgie-kiw fhall want a mailer ; the Tocifhall come and I poll Crile ; St. Andrews, theancient, ftnll run to ruin ; and thou Cupar,thy rights fa all grow old and diminifh.Falkland fnall lofs, and her fanctuary Ihallnot be regarded, and be of no ufe.Kennoway fhall be ruined with religiousfuperllition, and her Clettyden a hell of thieves,and ihall lofe its inhabitants.Dyfart fhail be linoke, and be undermindeebAnd the Wymfe fhall decay.( le )Kirkcaldy Ihali be enlarged, blit not byiicbes : Their Abbot-Hall fhall be ruined1,and their lalt and coal ihall fail.Kinghorn, thy royal Matter lhail iofe hislife near thy border. But,Thy horfe end ferry f/iail never fenl,sh jure as this is Rymer's tale.Burntifland, thy port Ihall flourilh; but thyreligious difputes fhall do thee muck hurt.There fhall rile a Hcboy, which fhall turnthee to mufic : but take care of that inttru-ment, for it will vex thee for a feafon; butits rotten heart will moulder cff.Then Inverkeitfling by the brae,Sentient for thy liberty.But thou fhalt forfeit thy rights, and fhall beperplexed for a feafon: Trade and commercein thee Ihall fail. But if thou repent, thereis yet a fore friend, which will relieve thee.Dunfermline, thou town of old antiquity1,v/ho hatt kings lying in thy urns; look, andbehold the days will come, when ttrangerswill tear to fee and behold thy ruinous fitua-tion. Religious difeords will rent thee; butthere will be trafeft ftill within thy borders.Look upward, and beheld Culrofs, who inKing David’s time got their Charter.Go flraight foreward, and fee Alloa, whokyth and kin left them; and they fhall grovelunder oppreflbrs, ard never {hall be amongthe number of thy royal brothers.Tluu Stirling, the cSntve of all ntifchicf inlotianJ, thy king will'brand-thee : But the:nrth and baptifm of a royal Son, whole namelliall be Henry, this Hands for thy glory.The gloomy day, the year fit teen.At istiriing-bi Id^e it jhait b. fieri'That troops ck ije hard on others heels,fVhen true Scots Jons lift all their jells.At Falkirk and Bannockburn, on thefe fieldsflrall be feen thoufands of Englifh fculs. Theproud Englifn fliall ftrive to conquer, but allin vain : it will be until an agreement fhallbe made, which will be little profit to Scot¬land, and make brails at home and'abroad.And thou Linlithgow, a Burgh of once re¬nowned fame, fhall be brought low by briberyand corruption : Thy univerfal Meafure andStandard for Scotland, ihall be in no efteem :But thy Wells of Water will Hill remain, andbe much admired by Hrangers.Likewife thou BorrowHounntfs, thy tradefhall revive* for a time ; but Giafgow, thyfupport, will fail thee. There fltall be a flreamof water, on which thy Barks lliall fail to theClyde, will much damage thee.O Edinburgh ! once the glory of the Forth,thy CaHIe ihall be inhabited often by iirarlgers,and the country round will dread thy judges.Thy Courts fhali be called in queftion by thofewho once made their nation tremble.Thou Dalkeith and Leith-, famous, the onefor 3 Cromwell, and the othsv for a Monk t, ( 12 )thy Forts mall be brought low and dtfolate,Leith fhall be brought to fervitude, Dalkeithto poverty ; only they fhall referve a day inthe week, to fpend what they gain the reil ofthe days. Pharil'ees fhall build altars in thee,and broils will continue for a time in thee:But there fhall rife a noble Buck, whofe fami¬ly will be had in great elteem; their kyth andkin fhall be much honoured.Muffelburgh of old hath been recorded, andto its honour it may be faid,Mu (ft l burgh it was a Burgh,when Edinburgh was none:And Mu[Jtlburgh will be a Burgh,when Edinburgh is done.As for Preflon, thy fields fhall run withblood ; and the day will come, when thy in¬habitants fhall dig for their living in the bowelsef the earth : And likewife thou fhalt makeclay th'y principal trade ; and thy fait fhall bewell taxed, thy flore-houfes keys fhall be keptcut of thy polfeffion.Port-Seton by the fea,Heirlefs fhall thy lands be,And Wiuton-houie fhall not be freeOf ruins, caus’d by perjury.That noble family yet will bloom,When tyranny has get its doom.North-Berwick and its ancient Law,A land-mark at the fea I faw:I heard of thee, and do declare,Thou’s be planted with an Orkney heir.. ( 13 )There {hall a judge live near to thee,Who fhall tv t juttice do to thee :There w ill be Twirls in thy Law,Thy judge will take thy corn and ftraw ;My meaning will be underftoodWhen double taxes will hand good.Upon thofe lands oppreffive menShall turn all mad, and we will gain.Thus far I knew, and fare it’s leal;Se fix your minds on Rymer’s tale.But that the curious may be more fully in¬formed concerning the forfaid predictions,with refpedt to their being exadtly fulfilled,they are referred to the Sccttilh Iliftories.A CURIOUS ANECDOTEOF RYMER’S BEINGRobbed by a Cobber in Kirkcaldy.In the year izJz, when Scotland was longafflicted with a fevere famine, Rymer return¬ing from a fummer’s evening walk, accompa¬nied with only a page, was accofted by a man,who prefented his piltol, and in a manner farIroin hardened refolutioti, afked him for hismoney. Rymer obferving that he came tothe wrong perfoa, and that hv could obtainbut little from him, faid, “ I have but threefiullings, which are r.ot worth a fouiile ; fomuch good may they do you; but, as a friend,let me tell you. you are going cn in a/verybad way.’' The robber took then , and with-out afking him tor more, walked away, withan air of dejection and terror.The fellow was no fooner gone, than Thomasordered, his page to fallow the robber, to ob-berve where he went^ and to bring him an ac¬count of all he fiiould difcover. The boy o-beyed, purfued him through fereral apfcureilreets, and at length, faw him enter a bakdr’sjhap, where he obferved him change one ofthe IhiUings, and buy a large brown loaf.—With this falutary puvchafe the rabber wenta few doors further, and, entering an alley,,afcended feveral pair of flars. The boy creptnp after him to thi topmofl; ftory, where hefaw him go into a room, which was no ether-wife illuminated than by the friendly light ofthe moon ; and peeping through a crevice, heperceived the wretched man caft the loaf onthe floor, and, burfring into tears, cry put,il There, eat your fill ; this is the dearelt loafI ever bought: I have robbed a gentleman ofthree fhillings;, let us Iiufoand them-well, andlet me have no more tfazings ; for fixm latethefe doings txmft bring me to ruin.” Thee-xpolhilations were anfwered by thofe of thewhole family; and his wife, having at lengthtaimed the aj* ny of his mind, took up the loaf,.jind cutting it, gave four pieces to four pooriarving children.—-The page having thus per-hrmed his cormiiiiiion, returned home, andjave his mafter an account of all he had feenand heard.—Satisfied with this account, Ry-pner afcended' to the Shoe-maker’s lodging,and knocked at the door : It was opened bythe unhappy man himfelf; who knowing himat firlf fight to be the gentleman whom he hadrobbed, proilrated himfelf at his feet. RymerIdefired him to make no noife, alluring him thathe had not the lead intention to hurt him.—“ You have a good charadter, faid he, amongyour neighbours ; but you mull expert yo»rlife will be cut lliort, if you are fo wicked asto continue the freedoms you took with m«.Hold your hand, here are 30 (billings to buyleather; htifband it well, and fet your childre*a laudable example.” Well done Thomas.Scotland be fad now, and lament,for honours thou hail loft,But yet rejoice in better times,which will repay the coft.Fair Scotia’s en’mies mav invade,but not efcane a plague ;With fvvdrd Sc'thirll, & tears Sc pell,with fears and fuch-like ague.( 1(5 )ANA C C O L N Tof theBATTLE or BANNOCKBURN.King Edward II. of England having keptup the fame claim upon Scotland, which hisfather had begun ; after feveral unfuccefsfulattempts to eftablilh it,i her refolved to makea great effort, and with one blow reduce thatturbulent nation, which had put fo many fignalaffronts upon his father and himfelf.In the fpring 1314, he affembled the moltnumerous army that had ever eroded the bor¬ders, compofed of different nations, and amount¬ing to above 100 000 effective men, befide ahuge multitude of attendants, who came along,in hopes of (haring in the plunder of a con¬quered enemy. At the head of thefe he march¬ed northward with an uncommon parade, andin full confidence of victory. •Robert Bruce, the fon of that Robert Brucewho held a conference with Wallace upon thebanks of the Carron, and grandion to him whohad been competitor with Baloil, had, in 1306,been crowned King of Scotland; and being in¬formed of Edward's formidable preparations,ke railed an army of 30,000 of his fubjedts.to oppofe him. This armament bore but afmall proportion to that of Edward’s; but itwas compofed of foldisrs who were hardenedby long practice of war, and who now carriedupon the point cf their fword, libertyand hon¬our, and every thing that was dear to them.With thefe Robert took up his ftation in theneighbourhood of Stirling, and waited forEdward’s arrival. ^The two armies came in fight of each otherin the month of June, and foon after a bloodybattle was fought, in which the Scots obtaineda victory, the molt celebrated of any in theannals of that kingdom. The procedure cfthis memorable event was as follows.The Englifh having marched from Edin-burgh to Falkirk in one day, and upon themorrow, fetting out from thence towards Stir¬ling, encamped to the northward of the Tor-wood. About Upper-Bannockburn, and back¬ward upon the Muir of Pidm, in the neigh-bourhc, d of the ancient Roman-Cafway, piecesof broken pots, and other veffels, have beenfound; and upon rocks near the furface, markscf fire have been difcovered, where it was fup-pofed the foldiers had made ready their pro-vilions. Barbour, the author of King RobertBruce’s life, fpeaks as if their camp hadflretched fo far northward as to occupy a partof carfe-ground ; and fo vaft a multitude muftdoubtlefs have covered a large tra£l of thecountry. The Scottilh army was pofled abouta mile to flie northward, upon feveral fmal!eminencies, iouth from the prefent village ofSt. Ninians. Upon the fummit of one of thefecminencics, now called Brock’s-brae, is a ftonefunk into ttie earth, with a round hole in it,near three inches in diameter, and much thefame in depth, in which, according to tradition,.King Robert’s Itandard was fixed, the royaltent having been erected near it. This ftoneis well known in that neighbourhood by thename of the Bore-ftone. The fmall river ofBannockburn, remarkable for its fteep andrugged banks, ran in a nai row valley betweenthe two camps. The Caftle of Stirling wasftill in the hands of the Englifli. EdwardBruce, the King’s brother, had, in the fpringof this year, laid fiege to it, but found bimfelfobliged to abandon the enterprize; only bya treaty between that Prince and Moubray,the Governor, it was agreed,'that, if the gar-rifon received no relief from England beforea year expired, they fhould furrender to dieScots* The clay preceding the battle, a ftrongbody of cavalry, to the number of 800, wasdetached fr®m the Englifh camp, under theconduct of Lord Clifford, to the relief of thatgarrifon. Thefe having marched through fomahollow grounds, upon the edge of the Carfe,had palled the Scots army before they wereobferved. The King himfelf was the firft thatperceived thani, and defiring Thomas Ran¬dolph, Earl of Murray, to look towards the)ip;place wliere •tKey were, told him, that a rofehad fallen from his chaplet. Randolph con-fidering this as a reproach, becaufe he had thecharge of that part through which the Einglifhhad marched, immediately fet out after themwith a party of 500 horfe, and coming up withthem, in the plain where the Imall village ofNew-houfe now {lands, a fharp action enftied,in fight of both'armies, and of the gan ifon ofStirling. It was fought with valour on bothfides ; and it was for fome time doubtful wherevictory fliould turn. King Robert, attendedby fome of his officers, beheld this rencounterfmm riling ground, fuppofed to be the roundhill immediately upon the well of St. Ninian’s,now called Cock-{hot-hi 11. James Douglasperceiving the difirefs of Randolph, who wasgreatly inferior to the enemy in numbers,aiked leave to go to his fupport. This KingRobert atfiril refufed, but afterwards Con fent-ed. Douglas, put his foldiers ifi motion : ob-ferving, however, as he was on the way, thatthe vidlory was upon the point of being wonwithout his arlfiliance, he flopped fiiort, thathis friend might have the unrivalled glory of it.The EnglHh were entirely defeated, and manyof them flain : and Randolph returned To the«amp amidfc acclamations of univerfal joy.To perpetuate the memory rff this vidlory,two Hones were reared up in the field, and areftill to be feen there. They Hand in a fpotwhich has lately been enclofcd for a garden.( 23 )at the north end of the village of Newhoufe,^nd about a quarter of a mile from the Bo-'rough-port of Stirling. This victory gave .new fpirits to the whole army, and made themfo eager for the general engagement, that thenight, though among the fhortefl: of the year,feemed long to them. Edward too, exafpe-rated at the defeat of his detachment, was de¬termined to bring on the battle on the morrow.At length appeared the dawn of that im¬portant day, which was to decide whether Scot¬land was henceforth to be an independent king¬dom, or fubjeQ to a foreign yoke. Early allwas in motion in both armies; religious fenti-ments were mingled with the military ardourof the Scots : A folemn mafs, in the mannerof thefe times, was faid by the Abbot of In-chaffery, a monaftry in Strathearn, who alfoadminiilered the Sacrament to the King, andthe great officers about him, while inferiorpriefls did the fame to the reft of the army.—After this, they formed in order of battle, ina track of ground called Nether-Touchadam,which lies along the declivity of a gentle rifinghill: This fttuation had been previouily chofen,becaufe of its advantages. Upon the right theyhad a range of fteep rocks,now called Murray’sCraig, and in their front were fteep banks ofthe rivulet of Bannockburn. Not far behindthem was a wood, fome veftiges of which ftiltremain. Upon the left was a morals, nowcalled Milton-bog, from its vicinity to a fmall( 21 )village of that name : much of this bog isfitllundrained, and a part of it is at prefent a mill-dam. As it was then the middle of fummer,it was almolt quite dry.: But King Roberthad recourfe to a liratagem, in order to pre¬vent any attack from that quarter. He hadordered many ditches and pits to be digged inthe morafs, and ftakes, fharpened at brth ends,to be driven into them, and the whole to becovered over again with green turf, fo that theground had dill the appearance of being firm.He alfo caufed crow-feet or fharp-pointed irons-to be fcattered throughout the morafs; feme ofwhich have tfeen found there, in the memoryof people lull living: the fame manoeuvreswere likewife carried on for a little way alongthe front of the left wing ; for there the banksfor about two hundred yards, being fiater thanthey are any-where elfe, it was the only placewhere the enemy could pafs the river in anyfort of order. By means of thefe artificial im¬provements, j uned to the natural ftrength ofthe ground, the Scotch army flood as withinan entrenchment, and the invifible pits andditches anfwered to the concealed batteriesof more modern times. Amongfl the otheroccurrences of this memorable day, hiftoriansmention an incident of a Angular nature As the two armies were about to engage, theAbbot of InchafFery polling himfelf before theScots, with a crucifix in his hand, they allfell down upon their knees in ad of devotion.(Z2)The enemy obferving them in fo unconimeia pofture, concluded that they were frighteiinto fubmiffion ; and that, by kneeling, wheithey fnould be ready to fight, they meant ufurrender at difcretion, and only begged thenlives ; but they were foon undeceived, whetthey faw them rife again, and {land to thei;arms with fleady countenance.The Englifh began the aftion, by a brift•barge upon the left wing of the Scots, commanded by Randolph, near the fpot whenthe bridge is now thrown over the river, at thefmall village of Charterfhall. Hereabout waithe only place where the river could be croffecin any order. A large body of cavalry advan.eed to attack him in front, while another fetched' a compafs to fall upon his flank and rearbut before they could come to a clofe engagement, they fell into the fnare that had been laicfor them. Many of their horfes were foon difabled by the {harp irons rufhing into their feetothers tumbled into the concealed pits, amcould not difentangle themfelves. Pieces othe harnefiing, with bits of broken fpears, air,other armour,- ftill continue to be dug up hthe bog. In the beginning of the engagempnan incident happened^, which though in itfeiof fmall moment, was rendered important b^its confequences. King Robert was mountedon horfeback, carrying a battle-ax in his handand upon his helmet he wore a high turbanin the form of a crown, by way of diftin&:ioEThis, together with his activity, rereiered hir*very confpicuous, as he rode before the lines.An Englifh Knight, named Bohun, who wasranked among the braved in Edward’s army,•ame galloping furioufly np to him, in orderto engage with him in Angle combat, expectingby fo eminent an aft of chivalry, at once toput an end to the conteft, and gain immortalrenown to himfelf; but the enterprizing cham¬pion having miffed bis firft; blow, was immedi¬ately ftruck dead with the battle-ax which theKing earned in his hand. This was a fortof fignal for the charge. So bold au attackupon their King, filled the Scots with fenti-ments ef revenge ; and the heroic atchieve-ment performed by him before their eyes,the royal ' exploit railed their fpirits to thehigheft pitch. They rufhed furioufly uponthe enemy, who, having by this time paffedthe river in great numbers, gave them a warmreception.—A Angular occurrence, which fonieaccounts reprefent as an accidental Tally ofpatriotic enthufiafm, others as a premeditatedftratagem of King Robert, fuddenly alteredthe face »f analrs, and' contributed greatly tothe viftory : All the fervants and attendantsof the Scottifh army, who are laid to haveamounted to twenty thoufand, had been order¬ed, before the battle, to retire behind Murray’sCraig. But having, during the engagement,arranged themfelves In a martial form, theymarched to the top of the hill, and difplayingwhite fiieets fixed up.>n p;-les, inflead of ban¬ners, moved towards the field of battle withhideous fhouts. The Englifh perceiving thismotely crowd, and taking them for a frefhreinforcement advancing to fupport the Scots,were feized with fo great a panic, that theybegan to give way in cmifufion. Buchananfays, that the King of England was the firltwho fled ; but in this he contradi&s all otherhiftorians, who affirm that he was among thelafl: in the field.The Scots purfued, and great was theflaughter among the enemy, efpecially in paf-ftng the river, where they could keep no orderbecaufe of the irregularity of the ground.King Edward himfelf efcaped with muchdifficulty, being clofely purfued ffir above fortymiles by Sir James Douglas, with a party oflight horfe. He was upon the point of beingtaken prifoner, when he was received intothe Gaftle of Dunbar by the Earl of March,who conveyed him to England by fea ia afiflier’s boat, his immenfe army being entirelydifcomfited.The Scots loft only four thoufand men,while the lofs of the Englifh amounted teabove thirty thoufand.FINIS.