Daniel O’Rourke’sWONDERFULVOYAGE TO THE MOON,ALSO, 'MASTER A V l> MAA;OR THE:Adventures of Billif MacDaniel.FALKIRK:PRINTED FOR THE BOOKSELLERS.{ OF SCOTLAND ^ramDANIEL O’ROURKE’Wonderful Voyage to the Moon.PEOPLE may have heard of the renowned anventures of Daniel O’Rourke, but how feare there w ho know that the cause of all his periliabove and below, was neither more nor less thshis having slept under the walls of the Phookltower. I knew the man well; he lived at the hottom of Hungry Hill, just at the right hand sidof the road as you go towards Bantry. An ol;tnan was he at the time that he told me the stonlwith grey hair, and a red nose; and it was on tbiy5th of Juno, 1813, that 1 heard it from his owlips, as he sat smoking his pipe under the old pophir tree, on as fine an evening as ever shone fromthe sky. I was going to visit the caves in Durse:Island, having spent the morning at Glengariff. |‘ I am often axed to tell it, sir,’ said he, ‘ so thalthis is not the first time. I he master’s son, yo.see, had come from beyond foreign parts in Francand Spain, as young gentlemen used to go, btforBuonaparte or any such was heard of; and sunenough theie was a dinner given to ail the peopllon the ground, gentle and simple, high and lowrich and poor. The o/z/rfgentlemen were the genttlemen, alter all, saving your honour’s presencaThey’d swear at a body a little, to be sure, andmay be, give one a cut of a whip now and thenbut we w ere no losers by it in the end ;—and the’3vere so easy and civil, and kept such rattlinghouses, and thousands of welcomes;—and therevas no grinding for rent, and few agents; andchore was hardly a tenant on the e.^t ite that didhot taste of his landlord’s bounty often and oftenn the year;—but now it’s another thing; no mat¬er for that, sir, for I'd better be telling you my6 torj'.Well, we had every think of the best, andalenty of it; and we ate, and we drank, and weilanced, and the young master by the same tokenlanced with Peggy Barry, from the Bohcreen—ti lovely young coup'e they were, though they aretoth long enough now. To make a long storyihort, 1 got, as a body may say, the same thingis tipsy almost, for 1 can’t remember ever at all,ao ways, how I left the place: only I did leave itthat's certain Well, 1 thought, for all that, inmyself, I’d just step to Molly Cronohan’s, the fairvwoman, to speak a word about the bracket heifer(that was bewitched ; and so as I was crossing thestepping stones at the ford of Baliyasheriogh, ami: was looking up at the stars and blessing myself for why? it was Lady-du\ — I missed my foot,Stand souse, I fell into the water. ‘Death alive!’thought I, ‘ I'll be drow ned now !’ However, i.(began swimming, swimming, swimming away forithe dear life, till at last l got ashore somehow orMother, but never the one of me can tell how, uponan dissolute island.I wandered and wandered about there, withoutknowing where I wandered, until at last I got intoa big bog. The moon was shining as bright asday, or your fair lady's eyes, sir, (with your par¬don for mentioning her,) and I looked east andwest, and north and south, and every way, ando nothing did 1 see but bog, bog, bog;—I cbu Id4never find out how I got into it; and my heargrew cold with fear, for sure and certain I wathat it would be my berrin place. So I sat dowjupon a stone which, as good luck would have itwas close by mo, and I began to scratch my heatand sing the U/lagon—when all of a sudden thmoon grew black, and I looked up, and saw something for all the world as if it was moving dowabetween me and it, and I could not tell what iwas. Down it came with a pounce, and looketat me full in the face; and what was it but ateagle? as fine a one as ever flew from the kingdonof Keny. So he looked at me in the face, an|say's he to me, 4 Daniel O’Rourke,’ says he, ‘ho*do you do?’ ‘Very well, I thank you,’ sayI: 41 hope you’re well;’ wondering out of mjsenses all the time how an eagle came to speak lik<a Christian. 4 What brings you here, Dan ?’ saylie. 4 Nothing at all, sir,’ says I: only I wistI was safe home again,’ 4 Is it out of the islaniyou want to go, Dan?’ says he. 4’Tis, sir,’ sayI: so I up and told him how I had taken a droj 'too much, and fell into the water; how I swanto the island; and how I got into the bog and ditnot know my way out of it. 4 Dan,’ says he, aftea minute’s thought, 4 though it is very impropefor you to get drunk on Lady^day, yet as you ara decent sober man, who ’tends mass well, ant 1never flings stones at me or mine, nor cries onafter us in the fields—my life for yours,’ says he4 so get up on my back, and grip me well, for featyou’d fall off, and I’ll fly you out of the bog.’—|* I am afraid,’ says I, 4 jour honour’s making gamof me; for who ever heard of riding a horsebaclon an eagle before ?’ 4 Pon the honour of a gentle Iman,’ says he, putting his right foot on his breast41 am quite in earnest: and so now either take nr5offer or starve in the bog—besides, I see that yourweight is sinking the stone.It was true enough as he said, for I found thei stone every minute going from under me. I had;mo choice ; so thinks I to myself, faint heart neverilwon fair lady, and this is fair persuadance:—E!thank your honour, says I, for the loan of yourcivility ; and I'll take your kind offer. 1 there¬fore mounted upon the back of the eagle, and heldihim tight enough by the throat, and up he flewtin the air like a lark. Little I knew the trick hei Was going to serve me. Up—up— up—God knowshow far up he flew. Why, then, said I, to him—(thinking he did not know the right road homeI—very civily, because why ?—I was in his power(entirely;—sir, says I, please your honour’s glory,sand with humble submission to your better judg¬ment, if you’d fly down a bit, you’re now justlover my cabin, and I could be put down there,and many thanks to your worship.Arrah, Dan, said he, do you think me a fool?fLook down in the next field, and don’t you seeitwo men and a gun ? By my word it would beduo joke to be shot this way, to oblige a drunkenblackguard that I picked up off a could stone in a(bog. Bother you, said I to myself, but I did notJspeak out, for where was the use ? Well, sir, up|he kept, flying, flying, and 1 asking him every(ininute to fly down, and all to no use. Where in(the world are you going, sir? says I to him.—Mold your tongue, Dan, says he; mind your own.ausiness, and don’t be interfering with the business, of other people—Faith, this is my business, I think,?ays 1. Be quiet, Dan, says he; so 1 said nomore.At last where should we come to, but to thej moon itself. Now you can’t see it from this, but6there is, or there was in my time a reaping-hooksticking out of the side of the moon, this way,(drawing the figure on the ground with the end ofhis stick.)Dan, said the eagle, I’m tired with this longfiy ; I had no notion 'twas so far. And, my lord,sir, said I, who in the world axed you to fly so far?—was it I ? did I not beg, and pray, and beseechyou to stop half an hour ago ? There’s no usetalking, Dan, said he ; I’m tired bad enough, seiyou must get off, and sit down on the moon until!I rest myself. Is it sit down on the moon ? said!I; is it upon that little round thing, then ? why,then, sure I’d fall off, in a minute, and be kill ansplit, and smashed all to bits ;—>ou are a vile de¬ceiver, so you are. Not at all, Dan, said he;,you can catch fast hold of the reaping-hook that’ssticking out of the side of the moon, and ’twillkeep you up. I won’t, then, said I. May be not,said he, quite quiet. If you don’t, my manshall just give you a shake, and one slap of mywing, and send you down to the ground, whereevery bone in your body will be smashed as smalas a drop of dew on a cabbage-leaf in the morning;Why, then, I’m in a fine way, said I to my selfever to have come a'ong with the likes of you, ant,so giving him a hearty curse in Irish, for fear he’iknow what I said, I got off his back with a heavylieart, took a hold of the reaping-hook, and sa;down upon the moon, and a mighty cold seat iiwas, I can tell you that.When he had me there fairly landed, he turnedabout on me, and said, Good morning to youDaniel O’Rourke, said he ; I think I’ve nickeciyou fairly now. You robbed my nest last year('twas true enough for him, but how he found i;out is hard to say,) and in return you are freelywelcome to cool your heels dangling upon the(noon like a cockthrow.I Is that all, and is this the way you leave me,fnu brute, you ? says I. You ugly unnatural baste,and is this the way you serve me at last ? Badduck to yourself, with your hooked nose, and toall your breed, you blackguard. ’ Twas all to nomanner of use : he spread out his great big wings,burst out a laughing, and flew away like light¬ening. I bawled after him to stop; but I mighthave called and bawled forever, without his mind-: ing me. Away he went, and I never saw himfrom that day to this—sorrow fly away with him !You may be sure I was in a disconsolate condition,and kept roaring out for the bare grief, when alli at ance a door opened right in the middle of the)< moon, creaking on its hinges as if it had not beeni||opened for a month before. I suppose they neverthought of greasing ’em, and out there walks—who do you think but the man in the moon him¬self? I knew him by his bush.Good morrow to you, Daniel O’Rourke, saidihe. How do you do? Very well, thank youri honour, said 1. I hope your honour’s well.—What brought you here, Dan ? said he. So I toldhim how I was a little overtaken in liquor at themaster’s, and how I was cast on a dissolute island,and how I lost my way in the bog, and how thethief of an eagle promised to fly me out ol it, andhow instead of that he had fled me up to the moon.Dan, said the man in the moon, taking a pinchof snuff when I was done, you must not stay here.Indeed, sir, says 1, 'tis much against my will I’mhere at all; but how am I to go back ? That’syour business, said he, Dan : mine is to tell youthat here you must not stay, so be off in less thanno time. I’m doing no harm, says I, only holding8on hard by the reaping-hook, lest I fall off. That’s ;what you must not do, Dan, says he. Pray, sir,, isays I, may I ask how many you are in familyJ ;that you would not give a poor traveller lodgings: ;I’m sure ’tis not so often you’re troubled with stran- igers coming to see you, for 'tis a long way. I’m jby myself, Dan, says he; but you’d better let gothe reaping-hook. Faith, and with your leave,says I, I’ll not let go the grip, and the more youbids me, the more I won't let go;—so I will.—You had better, Dan, says he again. Why, then, Itmy little fellow, says I, taking the whole weight ;of him with my eye from head to foot, there are jitwo words to that bargain; and I'll not budge, rbut you may if you lise. We'll see how that is Lto be, says he; and back he went, giving the door |such a great bang after him, (for it was plain he ! :was huffed,) that I thought the moon and allwould fall down with it.Well, I was preparing myself to try strength iwith him, when back again he comes, with the tkitchen clever in his hand, and without saying a Iword, he gives two bangs to the handle of the treaping-hook that was keeping me up, and xuhap !it came in two. Good morning to you Dan, saysthe spiteful little old blackguard, when he saw mecleanly falling down with a bit of the handle inmy hand ; I thank you for your visit, and fairweather after you, Daniel. I had no time to,make any answer to him, for I was tumbling overand over, and rolling and rolling at the rate of afox-hunt. Gold help me, says I, but this is a pret¬ty pickle for a decent man to be seen in at this itime of night; I am now sold fairly'. The wordwas not out of my mouth when whiz ! what should bfly by' close to my ear but a flock of wild geese;all the way from my' own bog of Ballyasheenoughj,Ise how should they know me ? the ould gander,iwho was their general, turning about his head,ied out to me, Is that you, Dan? The same,aid I, not a bit daunted now at what he said, forI wras by this time used to all kinds of iesfaWwen?,and, besides, I knew him of ould. Good morrowto you, says he, Daniel O’Rourke: how are youin health this morning? Very well, sir, says I,I thank you kindly, drawing my breath, for I wasmightily in want of some. I hope your honour'sthe same. I think ’tis falling you are, Daniel,says he. You may say that, sir, says I. Andwhere are you going all the way so fast? said thei gander. So I told him how I had taken the drop,Uand how I came on the island, and how I lost myway in the bog, and bow the thief of an eagle flewme up to the moon, and how the man in the moonturned me out. Dan, said he, I’ll save you : putyor hand out and catch me by the leg, and I’llfly you home. Sweet is your band in a pitcher ofhoney, uiy jewel, says I, though all the time Ithought in myself, that I don’t much trust you ;but there was no help, so I caught the gander bythe leg, and away I and the other geese flew after •him as fast as hops.We flew, and we flew, and we flew, until wecame right over the wide ocean. I knew it well,for I saw Cape Clear to my right hand, stickingup out of the water. Ah ! my lord, said I to thegoose, for I thought it best to keep a civil tonguein my head any way, fly to land if you please.It is impossible, you see, Dan, said he, for a while,because you see we are going to Arabia. ToArabia ! said I; that’s surely some place in for¬eign parts, far away. Oh! Mr Goose : why then,to be sure, I’m a man to be piled among you.—Whist, whist, you fool, said he, hold your tongue;10I teli you Arabia is a very decent sort of place, aslike West Carbery as one egg is like another, onlythere is a little more sand there.Just as \vc w ere talking, a ship hove in sight,scudding so beautiful before the wind : Ah ! then,sir, said I, will you drop me on the ship, if youplease? We are not fair over it, said he. Wearc, said I. We are not, said he : if I droppedyou now, you would go splash into the sea. Iwould not, says I ; I know better than that, forit is just clean under us, so let me drop now at(nee.If you must, you must, said he. There, takeyour own way; and he opend his claw, and faithlie was right—sure enough 1 came down plumpinto the very bottom of tbe salt sea ! Down to thevery bottom 1 went, and I gave myself up thenfor ever, when a whale wa ked up to me, scratch¬ing himself after his night’s rest, and looked mefull in the face, and never the word did he say;but lifting up his tail, he splashed me all over againwith the cold salt water, till there wasn’t a drystitch upon my whole carcase; and I heard some¬body saying—’twas a vjice l knew too—Get up,you drunken brute, out of that; and with that 1woke up, and there was Judy with a tub full of■water which she was splashing all over me ;—for, rest her soul ! though she was a good wife,she never could hear to see me in drink, and hada bitter hand of her own.(»et up, said site again ; and of all places in theparish, would no place sarve your turn to lie downupon but under the ould walls of Corrigaphooka ?an uneasy resting I am sure you had of it. Andsure enough I had; for I wa.- fairly bothered outof my senses with eagles, and men of the moons,and flying ganders, and whales driving me through11H bogs, and up to the moon, and down to the bot-tj tom of the great ocean. If I was in drink tentimes over, long would it be before I’d lie down inf1 the same spot again, I know that.MASTER AND MAN:OHThe Adventures oj Billij MacDaniel.IBILLY MACDANIEL was once as likely a'' young man as ever shook his brogue at a patron,i|! emptied a quart, or handled a shillelagh ; fearingI for nothing but the want of drink ; caring for no-t thing but who should pay for it; and thinking ofi nothing but how to make fun over it; drunk or| sober, a word and a blow was ever the way withBilly MacDaniel; and a mighty easy way it is ofi either getting into or of ending a dispute. MoreI is the pity that, through the means of his thinking,J and fearing, and caring for nothing, this sameBilly MacDaniel fell into bad company ; for surelythe good people are the worst of all company anyj one could come across.It so happened that Billy was going home oneclear frosty night not long after Christmas; themoon was round and bright; but although it was12as fine a night as heart could wish for, he feltpinched with the cold. By n-y word, chatteredBilly, a drop of good liquor would be no badthing to keep a man’s soul from freezing in him ;and I with I had a full measure of the best.Never wish it twice, Billy, said a little man ina three-cornered hat, bound all about with goldlace, and with great silver buckles in his shoes, sobig that it was a wonder how he could carry them,and he held out a glass as big as himself, filledwith as good liquor, as ever eye looked on or liptasted.Success, my little fellow, said Billy MacDaniel,nothing daunted, though well he knew the littleman to belong to the good people; here’s yourhealth, any way, and thank you kindly; no mat¬ter who pays for the drink; and he took the glassand drained it to the very bottom, without evertaking a second breath to it.Success, said the little man ; and you're heartilywelcome, Billy: but don't think to cheat me asyou have done others,—out with your purse andpay me like a gentleman.Is it I pay you? said Billy; could I not justtake you up and put you in my pocket as easily asa blackberry ?Billy MacDaniel, said the little man, gettingvery angry, you shall be my servant for sevenyears and a day, and that is the way I will bepaid; so make ready to follow' me.When Billy heard this, he began to be very sorryfor having used such bold words towards the littleman ; and he felt himself, yet could not tell how,obliged to follow the little man the live-long nightabout the country, up and down, and over hedgeand ditch, and through bog and brake without anyrest.13ft '■ «*When morning began to dawn, the little manturned round to him and said, You may now gohome, Billy, but on your peril dont fail to meetme in the Fort-field to-night; or if you do, it may;j be the worse for \ou in the long run. If I findI you a good servant, you will find me an indulgenti master.Home went Billy MacDaniel; and though he, was tired and weary enough never a wink of sleep:| could he get for thinking of the little man ; but heif was afraid not to do his bidding, so up he got inthe evening, and away he went to the Fort-field.He was not long there before the little man cametowards him and said, Billy, I want to go a longjourney to-night; so saddle one of my horses andi you may saddle another for yourself, as you areto go along with me, and may be tired after your■ walk last night.Billy thought this very considerate ofhismas-■ ter, and thanked him accordingly. But, said he! If I may be so hold, sir, I would ask which is the. way to your stable, for never a thing do I see butthe fort here, and the old thorn-tree in the corner< of the field, and the stream running at the bottom< of the hill, with the bit of bog over against us.Ask no questions, Billy, said the little man, but; go over to that bit of bog, and bring me two ofthe strongest rushes you can find.Billy did accordingly, wondering what th.e littleman would be at; and he picked out two of thestoutest rushes he could find, with a little bunchof brown blossom stuck at each side of each, andbrought them back to his master.Get up, Billy, said the little man, taking one ofthe rushes from him and striding across it.Where shall I get up, please your honour? saidBilly.14-e • <■.Whj’, upon horseback, like me, to be sure, saidthe little manIs it after making a fool of me you’d be, saidBilly, bidding me get a horeback upon that bitof a rush ? May be you want to persuade me thatt ie rush I pulled but a while ago out of the bogover there is a horse ?Up! up! and no words, said the little man,looking very angry; the best horse you ever rodewas but a fool to it. So Billy, thinking all thiswas in joke and fearing to vex his master, strad¬dled across the rush : Borram ! Borram ! Borram !cried the little man three times, (which, in Eng-glish, means to become great,) and Billy did thesame after him : presently the rushes, swelled upinto fine horses, and away they went full speed;but Billy, who had put the rush between his legswithout minding much how he did it, found him¬self sitting on horseback the wrong way, whichwas rather awkward, with his face to the horse’stail; and so quickly had his steed started off withhim, that he had no power to turn round, andthere was therefore nothing for it but to hold onby the tail.At last they came to their journey’s end, andstopped at the gate of a fine house : Now, Billy,said the little man, do as ymu see me do, and fol¬low me close ; but as you do not know your horse’shead from his tail, mind that your own head doesnot spin round until you can’t tell whether you arestanding on it or on your heels ; for remember thatold liquor, though able to make a cat speak, canmake a man dumb.The little man then said some queer kind ofwords, out of which Billy could make no mean¬ing, but he contrived to say them after him for allthat; and in they both went through the key-hole15ij of the door, and through one key-hole after ano-' ther, until they got into the wine-cellar which waswell stored with all kinds of wine.The little man fell to drinking as hard as he!| could, and Billy, noway disliking the example, did• the same. The best of masters aie you, surely,said Billy to him ; no matter who is the next; and| well pleased will l be with your service if you con¬tinue to give me plenty to drink.I have made no bargain with you, said the littleJ man, and will make none; but up and follow me.1 Away they went, through key-hole after key-hole ;j! and each mounting upon the rush which he left atthe hall door, scampered off, kicking the cloudsbefore them like snow-balls, as soon as the words,! Borram, Borram, Borram, had passed their lips.When they came back to the Fort-field, the littlei man dismissed Billy, bidding him to be there thei next night at the same hour. Thus did they goi on, night after night, shaping their course onee night here, and another night there—sometimesI north and sometimes east, and sometimes south,until there was not a gentleman's wine-cellar in allIreland they had not visited, and could tell theflavour of every wine in it as well—ay, better thanthe butler himself.One night when Billy MacDaniel met the littleman as usual in the Fort-field, and was going tothe bog to fetch the horses for their journey, hismaster said to him, Billy, I shall want anotherhorse to-night, for may be we may bring backmore company with us than we take. So Billy,who knew better than to question any ordergiven to him by his master, brought a third rush,much wondered who it might be that wouldtravel back in the company, and whether he wasabout to have a fellow servant. I have, thought. 16Billy, he shall go and fetch the horses from thebog every night; for I don’t see why I am not,every inch of me, as good a gentleman as mymaster.Weil, away they went, Billy leading the thirdhoise, and never stopped till they came to a snugfarmer’s house in the county Limerick, close un¬der the old castle of Carrigoggunniel, that was built,they say by the great Brian Boru. Within thehouse there was great carousing going forward,and the little man stopped outside for some timeto listen ; then turning round all of a sudden, said,Billy, I will be a thousand years old to-morrow !God bless us, sir, said Billy, will you ?Don’t say these words again, Billy, said thelittle man, or you will be my ruin for ever.—Now,Billy, as I will be a thousand years in the worldto-morrow, I think it is full time for me to getmarried.I think so too, without any kind of doubt at all,said Billy, if ever you mean to marry.And to that purpose, said the little man, haveI come all the way to Carrigoggunniel: for in thishouse, this very night, is young Darby Riley go¬ing to be married to Bridget Rooney; and as sheis a tall and cornel}' girl, and has come of decentpeople, 1 think of marrying her myself, and tak¬ing her off with me.And what will Darby Riley say to that? saidBilly.Silence ! said the little man, putting on a mightysevere look ;• I did not bring you here with me toask questions ; and without holding farther argu¬ment, he began saying the queer words, which hadthe power of passing him through the key-ho’e asfree as air, and which Billy thought himself mightyclever to be aide to say after him.In they both went; and for the better viewingi the company, the little man perched himself upas nimbly as a cock-sparrow upon one of the bigI beams which went across the house over all their! heads, and Billy did the same upon another facingf him ; but not being much accustomed to roostingi in such a place, his legs hung down as untidy as! may be, and it was quite clear he had not takenpattern after the way in which the little man hadbundled kimself up together. If the little mani had been a tailor all his life, he could not have satmore contentedly upon his haunchesThere they were both, master and man, lookingdown upon the fun that was going forward—andunder them were the priest and piper—and the fa¬ther of Darby Riley, with Darby’s two brothersI and his uncle’s son—and there were both fatherand the mother of Bridget Rooney, and proudenough the old couple were that night of theirdaughter, as good right they had—and her foursisters with brawn new ribbons in their caps, andher three brothers all looking as clean and cleveras any three boys in Munster—and there wereuncles and aunts, and gossips and cousins enoughbesides to make a full house of it—ai d plenty wasI there to eat and drink on the table for every oneof them, if they had been double the number.Now it happened, just as Mrs Rooney hadhelped his reverence to the first cut of the pig’shead which was placed before her, beautifullybolstered up w ith white saveys, that the bride gavea sneeze w hich madeevery one at the table start, butnot a soul said ‘ God bless us.’ All thinking thatthe priest would have done so, as he ought if hehad done his duty, no one w ished to take the wordout of his mouth, which unfortunately was pre¬occupied w ith pig’s head and greens. And after18a moment’s pause, the fun and merriment of thebridal feast went on without the pious benediction.Of this circumstance both Billy and his masterwere no inattentive spectators from their exaltedstations. Ha ! exclaimed the little man, throw¬ing one leg from under him with a joyous flourish,and his eye twinkled with a strange light, whilsthis eyebrows became elevated into the curvature ofGothic arches—Ha ! said he, leering down at thebride, and then up at Billy, I have half of hernowr, surely. Let her sneeze but twice more, andshe is mine, in spite of priest, mass-book, andDarby Riley.Again the fair Bridget sneezed, but it was sogently, and she blushed so much, that few exceptthe little man took, or seemed to take, any notice ;and no one thought of saying ‘ God bless us.’Billy all this time regarded the poor girl with amost rueful expression of countenance; for he couldnot help thinking what a terrible thing it was fora nice young girl of nineteen, with large blue eyes,transparent,skin, and dimpled cheeks suffused withhealth and joy, to be obliged to marry an uglylittle bit of a man, who was a thousand years old,barririg a day'.At this critical moment the bride gave a thirdsneeze, and Billy roared out with all his might,‘ God save us !’ whether this exclamation resultedfrom his soliloquy, or from the mere force of habit,he conld never tell exactly himself; but no soonerwas it uttered, than the little man, his face glow¬ing with rage and disappointment, sprang fromthe beam on which he had perched himself, andshrieking out in the shrill voice of a cracked bag¬pipe, I discharge you my service, Billy MacDan-iel—take that for your wages, gave poor Billy amost furious kick on the back, which sent his un- J19fortunate servant spraw ling upon his face and handsright in the middle of the supper table.If Billy was astonished, how much more so wasevery one of the company into which he was thrownwith so little ceremony; but when they heard hisstory, Father Cooney laid down his knife and fork,and married the young couple out of hand withall speed ; and Billy MacDaniel danced the Rinkaat their wedding, and plenty did he drink at it too,which was what he thought more of than dancing.This mode of travelling through the air uponrushes is of common occurrence in fairy history;—a straw, a blade of grass, a fern, or cabbagestalk, are equally well adapted for steeds, 'i hewriter has been told of many men who were oblig¬ed, like Billy MacDaniel, to give way and keepcompany with Che good people; to use the wordsof the narrator, going far and near with them,day and night—to London one night, and toAmerica the next; and the only horses they madeuse of for these great journeys were cabbagestumps in the form of natural horses.At Dundaniei, a village two miles from Cork,in a pleasant out'et, called Blackrock, there is now(Dec. 1818) living a gardener, named Crowley,who is considered by his neighbours as under fairycontrol, and is suffering from what they term ‘ thefalling sickness,’ resulting from the fatigue attend¬ant on the journeys which he is compelled to take,being forced to travel night after night with thegood people on one of his own cabbage stumps.The Witch of Fife furnishes an apt illustration,20The first leet night, quhan the new moon set,Quhan all was douff and mirk,We saddled our naigies wi’ the moon-fern leif,And rode fra Kilmerrin kirk.Some horses ware of the brume-cow framit,And some of the greine bay tree ;But mine was made of an humicke schaw,And a stout stallion was he.This ballad of Mr Hogg’s appears to be foundedon the traditional anecdote recorded of one of theDuffus family, who by means of the phrase, ‘ fjorseand Hattock,’ equivalent in effect to the words‘ Borram, Borram, Borram,’ joined company withthe fairies on a trip to examine the king of 1'rance’swince-cellar, where, having drunk too freely, he fellasleep and was so found the next day, with a silvercup in his hand. The sequal informs us, that onbeing brought before the, king, his majesty netonly most gracjously pardpned the offender, butdismissed him with the wine-cup as a present, whichis said to be still preserveu in the family.A similar tradition is very common in Ireland,particularly in the county Galway, and is evidentlythe basis on which Billy MacDanicTs adventurehas been constructed.In every tiny dingle there was a hundred of wry-mouthed goblins.—So says D. ab Gwilym, in hisaddress to the Mist, 1340.These fairies are often’ inclined to play trickswith the less pure inhabitants of the mountains,who hazard to ramble in misty weather; they willseize hold of any forlorn traveller they meet with,and propose to give him a lift through the air, andthey offer the choice of one out of three courses;that is he may be carried below wind, above wind,211' or mid urind. Tliose who are need to these jour-! neys take care to choose the middle course; for,| should any one unused to such things choose togo above wind, he will be borne so high as to de-I spair of ever alighting again on the earth; andany ignorant wight who prefers to be carried be¬low wind is dragged through all the brambles andbriers that they can find. A lawyer with a brokennose, and otherwise disfigured, continues the learned' doctor, used to relate in my hearing, when a boy,of such having been his lot, and which he borethe maiks, and was consequently called Y Tnuynor ‘ the Nosy.’ This I remember had such aneffect upon me, that if 1 walked in a mist, I tookgood care to walk on the grass, in case there shouldbe need to catch hold of a blade of it, which thefairies had not the power to break.Such being the pranks of Welsh fairies, it is notto be wondered at that the valiant Sir John Falstaffshould feel so particularly dismayed at discoveringone in company with the wickedly disposed elvesof Herne’s Oak. (Merry W ives of Windsor, ActV. scene 5) ‘ Heavens defend me,’ exclaims theknight, ‘from that Welsh fairy, lest she transformme into a piece of cheese •’The young couple, whose happiness woulddoubtless have been destroyed by the little manbut for Billy MacDanieTs pious exclamation, areprobably the identical pair whose courtship is asparticularly detailed in a popular song, of whichthe annexed verse may serve as a specimen.‘ Young Darby Riley,He approached my slyly,And with a smile heUnto me cried20Sweet Briilget Rooney,Here’s Father Goeney,And very soon he’ll make you my bride.The Rinka (correctly written Rinceadh) whichBilly, to whom they w ere so much indebted, danc¬ed at their wedding, is the national dance of Ire¬land; F< r a particular account of which the readeris referred to the conclusion of Mr Walker’s His¬torical Essay on the Irish Bards.Carrigoguniel Castle is an extensive ruin, fiveor six miles west of the city of Limerick : it maybe discribed by the words of the old poet, ThomasChurchyard—A fort of strength, a strong and stately holdIt was at first, though now it is full old.On rock alone full farre from other mount.It stands, which shows it was of great account.During the last siege of Limerick, this castlewas garrisoned by the adherents of James II butwas surrendered by them without defence, althoughit was so tenable a position that the beseigers deem¬ed it expedient to blow it up. The violent effectof the explosion is still evident in the delapidatedremains of Carrigoguniel. Massive fragments ofthe v alls and towers lie scattered around in a con¬fusion not unpicturesque; and it is matter of somedifficulty to trace the original plan. A view ofCarrigoguniel is given in the second volume ofCirose’s Antiquities of Ireland.9COR MAC AND MARY.“ She is not dead—she has no grave—She lives beneath Lough Corrib’s water;i And in the murmur of each waveMethinks I catch the songs l taught her.”Thus man) an evening on the shoreSat Cormac raving wild and lowly;Still idly muttering o'er and o’er,“ She lives, detain’d by spells unholy.“ Death c’aims her not, too fair for earth,Her spirit lives—alien of heaven ;i'Nor will it know a second birthWhen sinful mortals are forgiven !“ Cold is the rock—the wind comes chill,And mists the gloomy water cover;i But oh ! her soul is colder still—To lose her God—to leave her lover !’’The lake was in profound repose,Yet one white wave came gently curling,. And as it reach’d the shore, aroseDim figures—banners gay unfurling.Onward they move an airy crowd ;Through each thin form a moonlight rayWhile spear and helm, in pageant proud,Appear in liquid undulation.Bright barbed steels curvetting treadTheir trackless way w ith antic capers:And curtain clouds hang overhead,Festoon’d by rainbow-cclour’d vapours.• T*17 in CJ «Ji. Ir JiAnd when a breath of air would stirThat drapery of Heaven’s own wreathing,Light wii gs of primsy gossamerJust moved and sparkled to the breathingNor wanting was the choral song,Swelling in silv’ry chimes of sweetness;To sound of which this subtile throngAdvanced in playful grace and fleetness.With music’s strain all came and wentUpon poor Cormac’s doubting vision ;Now rising in wild merriment,Now softly fading in derision.“ Christ, save her soul he boldly cried ;And when that blessed name wras spoken;Fierce ye'ls and fiendish shrieks replied,And vanished all,—the spell was broken.And now on Corib’s lonely shore,-Freed from his word from power of faery,To life, to love, restored once more,Young Cormac welcomes back his Mary.