Price One Penny.No. I.LI FK OFROBERT RURJYKA SELECTION OFAMUSING AND INSTRUCTIVEPAMPHLF/i’S;C0MPnT"lXGLIVES of GREAT WARRIORS & STATESMEN,ON SEA & LAND,HISTORIES of DIFFERENT COUNTRIES,ACCOUNTS of wonderful events, singularCHARACTERS, and NOTORIOUS OFFENDERSUSEFUL FAMILY RECEIPTS, COOKERY, &C. &C.EDINBURGH:PRIMTFD FOR THF. BOOKSELLERS,1S-2S. ;"7/ZoiLeroTLiStl * 'LIFE OF ROBERT Braftg,T^obekt? Bohns was horn on the 25th January,1759, in a cottage about two miles south from Ayr,not far from the Kirk of Alloway and the “ AuldBrig of Doon.” His father, William Burnes orBurness, was the son of a farmer in Kincardine¬shire. When about 19 years of age he removedto the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, where heworked sometime as a gardener, and afterwardsw ent to Ayrshire, where he was employed as gar¬dener and overseer to a gentleman of small estate ;but resided on a few acres of land which he held onlease from the proprieter, and where he intendedto establish himself as a nurseryman. He marriedAgnes Brown in December, 1757, and the poetwas their first born. William Burness was a manof great integrity, and of strictly religious prin¬ciples, and is beautifully painted by the poet“ as the saint, the father, and the husband,”in the Cottar s Saturday Night. Agnes Brown,♦he wife of this good man, was a woman of greatpruA^nce and sagacity, and is said to have hada consifttrable resemblance in features to her cele¬brated son. she possessed a great store of bal¬lads and traditionary tafes, which no doubt nour¬ished the imagination of young poet. Withall the economy and hard Valour of this worthypair, things did not turn out wdl at this place,and William Burness removed to iUo farm ofMount Oliphant, in the parish of Ayr, at Whit¬sunday 1776, when his son Robert was about seven( or eight years old. Here, from the soil being ofthe worst description, and other causes, he was3<j!ad to give up the bargain at the end of six years*He then removed to a better farm, that of Lochlea,in the parish of Tarbolton, where another trainof misfortunes overtook him ; and at last a disputeabout the lease, which had been referred to arbi¬tration, resulted in his ruin. He lived to knowof the decision, but death saved him from witness¬ing its necessary consequences. He died of con¬sumption on the 13th of Februaryj 1784. In themidst of these struggles, William Burness usedthe utmost exertions to educate his children,—aduty which is seldom neglected by Scottish pa¬rents, however scanty their means. Robert, andGilbert his next brother, attended school together.Their teacher, speaking of them, says, “ Robertand Gilbert were generally at the upper end of theclass, even when ranged with boys by far theirseniors. Gilbert always appeared to me to possessa more lively imagination, and to be more of thewit than Robert. I attempted to teach them alittle church music: Here they were left far be¬hind by all the rest of the school. Robert’s ear,in particular, was remarkably dull, and his voiceuntunable. It was long before I could get them todistinguish one tune from another.” “The twofirst books,” says the poet himself, in 1787, “I everread in private, and which gave me more pleasurethan any two books I ever read since, were TheLife of Hannibal, and the History of Sir WilliamWallace. Hannibal gave my young ideas such aturn, tb^t I used to strut in raptures up and downafter the recruiting drum and bagpipe, and wishmyself tall enough to be a soldier; while the storyof Wallace poured a tide of Scottish prejudice intomy veirfs, which will boil along there till the flood¬gates of life shut in eternal rest.”4When they had bficn about two years at MountOliphant, their school master left the country.“ There being no school near ns,” says GilbertBurns, “ and our little services being: already use-ful on the farm, my father undertook to teach usarithmetic in the winter evenin<>\s by candle-light—and in this Way my two elder sisters got all theeducation they ever received.” When Burns wasabout thirteen or fourteen years old, he was sent,with his brother Gilbert, “ week about, during asummer quarter, to the parish school of Dalrymple,two miles distant, their father being unable to paytwo fees, or they could' not lie both spared at oncefrom the labours of the farm. “ We lived vex’ypoorly,” says the poet; “ I was a dexterous plough¬man for my age ; and the next eldest to me was abrother (Gilbert), who could drive the plough verywell, and help me to thrash the corn. A novel-writer might perhaps have viewed these sceneswith some satisfaction, but so did not I. My in¬dignation yet boils at the recollection of thescoundrel factor’s insolent letters, which used to setus all in tears.” “ To the huffetings of misfor¬tune,” says Gilbert, “ we could only oppose hardlabour, and the most rigid economy. We livedvery Sparingly. I doubt not but the hard labourand sorrow of this period of life, was in a greatmeasure the cause of that depression of spirits withwhich Robert was so often afflicted through hiswhole life afterwards. At this time he was almostcontinually afilicted in the evenings with a dullheadach®, which, at a future period of his life, wasexchanged for a palpitation of the heart, and athreatening of fainting and suffocation in his bed,in the night time.”About a year after this period, their old school-masler, Mr Murdoch, having established himselfin the town of Ayr, Robert for some time attend-ei!. him there, and learned a little of English gram¬mar, Latin, and French, In the meantime^ heread with great avidity every book chance threwin his way. The removal of the family to Loch-lea took place when Burns was in his sixteenthyear; a little before which period, according tohis own account, he “ first committed the sin ofrhyme.” In one of his epistles he says :—“ I mind it weel, in early date.When I was beardless, young, and blate—F’ev then a wish, I mind its power,A wish that to my latest hourShall strongly heave my breast:'Idiat I, for poor auld Scotland’s sake.Some useful plan or hook could make.Or sing 'a sang, at least;The rough, bur-thistle spreading wideAmafcg the bearded bear,I turned the weeder-clips adde.And spared the symbol dear.”While at Lochlea, Robert and bis brother wereemployed by their father as regular labourers, andreceived £.7 each a-year. Robert was remarkablefor his personal strength, and worked very hard atall the tasks of the farm. “ In my seventeenthyear,” he says, sc to give my manners a brush, Iwent to a country dancing-school and after¬wards, “ At the plough, scythe, or reap-hook, Ifeared no competitor, and thus I set absolute wantat defiance; and as I never cared farther for myInborn* than while I was in actual exercise, I spentmy evennms in the way after my own heart Acountry lad seldom carries on a love adventure6without an assisting confidant. I possessed a curi¬osity, zeal, and intrepid dexterity, that recom¬mended me as a proper second on these occasions,and I dare say I felt as much pleasure in being inthe secret of half the loves in the parish of Tar-bolt on, as ever did statesman in knowing the in¬trigues of half the courts of Europe.” While thusoccupied, a number of his pieces were composed,chiefly those which relate to love, a passion ofwhich Burns was extremely susceptible. A partof his nineteenth year was spent at Kirkosvvald,whither he had gone to learn mensuration, geome- Jtry, &c. Kirkoswald, which lies on the sea coast, Jwas at that time a great resort of smugglers, andBurns did not escape some contamination from the |society he met with there. His brother Gilbert |says, he observed from that period a change in his jhabits.“ About this time,” says Gilbert, “ he and I had Jjfor some years taken land of our father, for the pur- Ipose of raising flax on our own account; and in the Icourse of selling it Robert began to think of turn- Iing flax-dresser, both as being suitable to his grand I;view of settling in life, and as subservient to the Iflax-dressing.” Burns, accordingly, in pursuance jof this resolution, went to a relation of his mo- | ,ther’s, a flax-dresser in Irvine, with the view of |learning this trade, and for a time applied himself |,with great diligence. But on a new year's morn- jing the shop caught fire, and was totally consu- fjmed, and he was left, in his own words, “ like a Jjtrue poet, not worth a sixpence.” Three days Jbefore this unfortunate fire took place, he address- Jed a letter to his father, which contained much |good sense and pious reflection. Among other jfthings, he says, “ I am more pleased with the I715th, 16th, and 17th verses of the seventh chapterof Revelations, than with any ten times as manyverses in the whole Bible, and would not exchangethe noble enthusiasm with which they inspire mefor all that this world has to offer.”* Had Burnsalways acted up to the dictates of his better judg¬ment and feelings, he would have been a muchmore happy and prosperous man. But, alas, forhuman nature! with much that was truly nobleand generous, he inherited also much of the frailtyincident to fallen man. “ At Irvine,” says Gil¬bert, “ he contracted some acquaintance of a freermanner of thinking and living than he had beenused to, whose society prepared him for overleap¬ing the bounds of rigid virtue which had hithertorestrained him.” The misfortunes of his fatherreached their crisis about the time of Robert’s re¬turn from Irvine, and lie did not live long after¬wards.About this time Burns had to undergo the pen¬ance then awarded by the discipline of the Churchof Scotland for the birth of an illegitimate child.His conduct on this occasion was marked by a le-* These verses are as follows :—15. Therefore are they before the throne ofGod, and serve him day and night in his temple;and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwellamong them.16. They shall hunger no more, neither thirstany more ; neither shall the sun light on them,nor any heat.17. For the Lamb, that is in the midst of thethrone, shall feed them, and shall lead them untoliving fountains of waters ; and God shall wipeaway all tears from their eyes.svity wliicli camint he justified, and is only tn beaccounted for on the supposition of his wishing tobrave out his shame in the eyes of his jovial asso¬ciates—for the tenderness and manliness of Burns’sgeneral feeling will not permit us to think thatsuch deportment was tlie deliberate expression ofhis mind.About three months before the death of WilliamBurness, Robert and Gilbert, who had for some¬time foreseen the storm that was thickening roundtheir father’s dwelling, came to the resolution oftaking the farm of Mossgiel, in the neighbouringparish of Mauchline, with the view of providingthe family with a shelter. It was stocked withtheir joint property and savings, but notwith¬standing all their exertions they could make littleout of it. It was during their residence at Moss¬giel, which continued four years, that Burns‘composed some of his most celebrated pieces.Among these were llte Holy 'i’u'tlrAe, or TzvaHerds, Holy Willie's Prayer, the Epistle to Davie,Death and Doctor Hornbook, the verses to theMouse and Mountain Daisy, the Cottar's Satur¬day Night, Sic. Among these are some of-thosepieces so remarkable for the poignancy of theirsatire and the breadth of their humour. To ^ex¬plain the causes which gave rise to such of theseproductions as glance upon religion, or ratherupon certain teachers of religion, whom he hastherein commemorated, would be impracticable inso brief a memoir. Suffice it to say, that, at theperiod of their composition, an unusual fermentprevailed in the district of Ayrshire where ourpoet resided, occasioned by misunderstandingsbetwixt several of the leading clergy and theheritors,—among the latter ol whom was Bur ns’- 9landlord. Burns sided vvilli his patron, and wasno doubt a powerful auxiliary. As to these piecesvarious opinions have been held—some heapingupon Burns the charges of blasphemy, irreligion,&c. while others have praised him for so meri¬torious a task as the exposure and denunciation ofwhat they are pleased to call hypocrisy and fana¬ticism. To the present generation it is not easyto convey an adequate notion of the height towhich parties ran in the West Country at thisperiod, nor of the acrimony that was ingrafted onthe polemical controversies then raging. Theseconsiderations should go far in the eyes of eventhe most austere to exculpate Burns from thecharges alluded to, and incline them rather toimpute to the fiery vehemence of his temperamentthose sallies which overleap the bounds of de¬corum—for that Burns, in spite of the levity ofcertain passages to be found in his works, wasembued, and deeply embued, with the solemn andcontemplative thoughts which belong to religiousfeeling, and in the longrun generally issue in strictreligions principle, cannot fairly be denied. Butno one bad, on the other hand, a keener percep-|" tion of the ludicrous, and such peculiarities in bisopponents as offered a tempting mark for theshafts of the satirist were sure to be taken advan¬tage of; at all events, the humour of these piecesis confessedly unrivalled. jpaUqwgm, a descrip¬tive |K)em, perhaps more exquisitely wrought thanthe Holy .Fair, and containing nothing that couldoffend the feelings of any body, was producedabout the same period.After residing some time at Mossgiel,-he seemsto have perceived that, the farm would at bestfurnish no more than the hare means of subsist-10fence to so large a family, and cafne at last to theresolution of trying his fortune in the WestIndies. To this step, it is probable, he was moreeagerly urged by the treatment he received fromthe family of the celebrated Jean, his future wife,and now respected widow. This young woman,who, from the first period of her intimacy withBurns, was joved by him with an ardent attach¬ment, which continued till the close of his life,unfortunately became pregnant ; and the disclo¬sure of the fact to her father, whose namewas Armour, a master mason in Irvine, drewdown upon herself and her lover the most fierceresentment. The old man would not be ap¬peased, and when Burns wished to repair theirerror by marriage, spurned at the proposal; andto such an unreasonable length did he carry hisindignation, as to prevail on 1/s daughter to de¬stroy a written acknowledgment she had gotfrom Burns of her being his wife,—a documentwhich the law of Scotland holds a valid proof ofmarriage. The poet has recorded in some of hisletters the anguish of his feelings on this occasion.Jamaica was now his mark; and, through theinfluence of a friend in Irvine, he procured asituation as assistant overseer on a plantation inthat colony. To defray his outfit, and other ex¬penses, it now occurred to him, for the first time,to publish his poems, though of their yieldinghim any thing he was extremely doubtful Theywere at length printed at Kilmarnock, the editioneonsisting of fiOO copies ; and our poet, after pay¬ing all expenses, cleared about £20. In themeantime, his fame began to take a start, andcopies of bis volume having fallen into the handsof people of taste and judgment, a general inquiry11about liim began to prevail, and it became anobject of desire with some of his friends to detainhim in his native country. With this view, anappointment in the Excise, or some other publicoffice, was suggested; and Burns, it would appear,was not averse to fall in with their wishes.Having been introduced about the same time alsoto the tables and acquaintance of several dis¬tinguished families, the originality and vigour ofhis genius, which was displayed in his conversa¬tion no less than his poetry, began to be muchtalked of. Among the first to appretiate hispowers may be named the celebrated ProfessorHugald Stewart, Dr Hugh Blair, and above all,Mrs Dunlop of Dunlop, a lady of high birth andample fortune, who was enthusiastically attachedto every thing which concerned the honour andinterest of her native country. The friendship ofthis lady continued unabated to the day of thepoet’s death, and to her a large part of his letterswere addressed.In the meantime, the appointment in the Ex¬cise, which he had reason to hope for, being as hethought rather slowr in reaching him, Burns beganonce more to resume the idea of pushing his for¬tune in the West Indies, and made several pre¬parations for that purpose. He even took fare¬well of some of his friends, and proceeded, as hehimself informs us, to convoy his trunk so far onthe road to Greenock, where he was to embark ina few days for America. On this occasion hecomposed the farewell dirge to his native land,and which ends thus :—“ Farewell, old Coda’s hills and dales,Her heathy moors and winding vales,The scenes where wretched fancy roves,12Pursuing past unhappy loves,T'arewel], my friends ! farewell, my foes !My peace with these—ray love with those—The bursting tears my heart declare,Farewell, the bonny banks of Ayr.”At this critical jpncture of his lire and fortunes,he was presented with a letter, addressed to afriend of his in the 'West, from the celebratedDr Black lock of Edinburgh, himself a poet andman of Hue genius, the subject of which was amost flattering descant on the merits and geniusof Burns; and strongly advising that a second andmore perfect edition of his poems should be im¬mediately printed, and staking his reputation ontheir triumphant success. Under this encourage¬ment Burns instantly came to the resolution ofrepairing to the capital, which at that time wasthe residence, as jt is now, of many of tine mostdistinguished names that adorn the annals ofScottish literature. He was immediately intro¬duced by the kind Dr Black lock, who receivedhim with all the warmth of paternal affection, tothe notice and acquaintance of the most eminentliterati. It was arranged that his second editionshould come out under the auspices of Mr Creech,then the first of the metropolitan booksellers; andthe merits of the work were previously made >known in a criticism from the pen of the cele¬brated Henry Mackenzie, author of The Himof Feeling, which appeared in The Lounger, acelebrated periodical of the day. The Earl ofGlencairn, a nobleman of great affability andbenevolence, whose kindness Burns acknowledgeswith grateful reverence, also made interest withthe Caledonian Hunt, (an associaiion of most ofthe Scottish nobility,to accept the dedication of13the forthcoming edition, and Ur subscribe indivi¬dually lor copies.From this date Burns continued to receiveevery day new introductions, and was caressed,praised, and flattered, wherever he went. Indeed,his colloquial powers, independent of his merits asa poet, by the concurring testimony of all whohad the means of judging, were of themselvessufiicient to make his company coveted. In gravediscussions the shrewd sagacity of his judgment,joined to a masculine vigour of language, were noless striking and delightful than the sparklingstream of wit and humour which ran through hislighter essays. It was remarked, that thoughborn and bred in a sphere .far beneath that inwhich he now figured, that there was no awkwardrusticity about him ; or if any was perceptible tothe polished eye of fashion, it was so little as onlyto stamp the greater individuality of his character.Wtth those of his own sex it was noticed, thatsometimes in the collision of argument his dissentfrom opposite opinions was not exactly smoothedI down to the established standard of courtesy;but at no time could boorishness or rudenessbe marked im his behaviour, if we make but oneexception, perhaps, which is worth noticing/and(where the provocation of the poet it must be al¬lowed was great. This was the rebuff' he gavea clergyman, at a breakfast table one morning,who was violently criticising Grays Elrgy. Thispiece was a great favourite of Burns, who chal¬lenged the impugner of its merits to point outspecifically the passages or sentiments lie objectedto. Mere unfortunately the critic was gravelled,and in bis attempts shockingly blundered the tex^.'i his roused the indignation of the poet, who.14unable to repress his wrath any longer, thus ad¬dressed him, “Sir, I now perceire.a man may bevery learned, and an excellent judge of poetry bysquare and rule, and yet after all be a d dblockhead1' With those of the other sex hismanners and address were in the highest degreedeferential and polished A letter from himselfabout this time says, “For my own affairs I amin a-fair way of becoming as eminent as Thomasa Kempis, or John Bunyan ; and you may expecthenceforth to see my birth day inscribed amongthe wonderful events in the Poor Robin andAberdeen Almanacks, along with the BlackMonday, and the Battle of Bothwell Bridge.”“ The attentions he received,” says Mr DugaldStewart, “ from all ranks and descriptions of per¬sons, were such as would have turned any headbut his own. 1 cannot say that I could perceiveany unfavourable effect which they left on hismiad. He retained the same simplicity of man¬ners and appearance which had struck me soforcibly in the country ; nor did he seem to feelany additional self-importance from the numberand rank of bis new acquaintance.”Notwithstanding all this, and when Burns hadretired from the homage of these glittering sa¬loons, and the tumultuous applause of convivialassemblies, to the obscure lodgings which be thenoccupied in one of the closes of the High Street ofEdinburgh, he could not shield himself from pain¬ful reflections. He came to be more than halfaware that the smiles of the great often go forvery little; and many passages in his letters writ¬ten about this time betray but too plainly the se¬cret emotions of his soul. His keen sensibilitywas wounded by many of the thoughts which oh-15jtruded themselves, and his penetration was notlong in apprehending that their own gratificationis often sought by the great in their notice of thepoor man who has nothing to offer in return buthis own talents. Nothing was done in the way ofprocuring him an appointment, which he had rea¬sonably been led to expect. Some convivial ac¬quaintances were also contracted about this timenot much to be desired, and it is believed some ofhis great friends were pleased to take rather anexception at this Burns did fall into some errors.But it were well for those who may be disposed topass too sweeping a condemnation on the aberra¬tions of Burns in this part of his career, as well asin some other passages of his life, to pause and re¬flect whether there was ever almost any man whostood in such peculiar circumstances, or who hadso much in his history to account and apologiset for his indiscretion.I On the 6th May 1787, after spending aboutsix months in the capital, Burns departed fromEdinburgh, in company with a friend, on a coun¬try excursion before he should return to Ayrshire.His route was southward, and he visited in thecourse of his toiir several distinguished families.He returned to Mauchline on the 8th July, wherehe remained but a few days, and undertook ano-I ther tour through the north. In this excursion1 he was received with much courtesy at the houses' of many eminent persons—among these were thenoble family of Argyle. On these occasions hecomposed some of his most admired lyrics. Afteranother visit to his family at Mossgiel he repaired,in March 1788, to Dalswinton, in Dumfries-shire,t the residence of Mr Miller, with whom he was inI treaty for the lease of a farm on his estate. Du-16ring part of the intervening months he had beenoccasionally in Edinburgh, as he says, to adjustmatters with his bookseller, although it is prettyclear that a visit to some of his old jovial compa¬nions was the true cause. After a good deal oftime lost between the arranging of ins lease atDalswinton and settling with his bookseller, n pe¬riod which from different causes he seems to havespent rather uneasily, his affairs came at last toassume something like a definite shape. The set¬tlement of accounts with the bookseller put himin. possession of or .f’GOO, and the terms ofagreement at Dalswinton being finally arranged,he left Edinburgh for Ids new possession, havingalso in his pocket an excise conmd.ssion as a fur¬ther resource should he come to need it, which hehad procured through the friendship of MrGraham of Fintry, one of the Commissioners.At Whitsunday 1788, Burns entered upon hisnew farm, and in the following November broughthome Jean Armour, now Mrs Burns, whom hehad married some time previously, and for a timematters went on pretty smoothly. In several ofIds letters he speaks with much affection of hiswife, and of her admirable qualities. Many oflushest pieces were composed here; and, outliewhole, the poet seemed in a fair way of obtain¬ing competence and such reasonable share of hap.-piness as man may look for. But the burningvehemence of Ids temperament, the keenness ofhis sensibility, and a constitutional melancholy towhich he had through all his life been subject,were often to him the source of uneasiness amidisquiet: Thus exhibiting tons how little to becoveted is the possession of lofty talents and highgenius, even with all the fame and disfmeiion theyi;HiitKjIIiiii'lltotit1?confer, when accompanied with such painful draw¬backs ; and affording a lesson of contentment tothose who are denied, and may feel disposed toenvy, such dangerous gifts. “ The fate and cha¬racters of the rhyming tribe,” thus writes thepoet himselfin 1793, “ often employ my thoughtswhen I am disposed to he melancholy. There isnot among all the martyrologies that ever werepenned so rueful a narrative as the lives of thepoets. In the comparrtive view of wretches, thecriterion is not what they are doomed to suffer,but how they are formed to bear. Take a beingof our kind, give him a stronger imagination anda more delicate sensibility, which between themwill ever engender a more ungovernable set of pas¬sions than are the usual lot of man ; implant inhim an irresistible impulse to some idle vagary,such as arranging wild-flowers in fantastic nose¬gays, tracing the grasshopper to his haunt byhis chirping song, watching the frisks of the littleminnows in the sunny pool, or hunting after theintrigues of butterflies—in short, send him adriftafter some pursuit which shall eternally misleadhim from the paths of lucre, and yet curse himwith a keener relish than any man living for thepleasures that lucre can purchase lastly, fill upthe measure of his woes by bestowing on him aspurning sense of his own dignity, and you havecreated a wight nearly as miserable as a poet.”In these short sentences Burns has traced his owncharacter far better than any one else has done it; since. .The affairs of the farm did not long thrive, and,perceiving Ilium going backwards, Burns resolvedto enter upon the duties of the Excise. He was; accord high' appointed to do duty in that capacity18in the district where his own farm was situated.His income was at first onlj £35, but he stillretained Elliesland. During the prosperity of hisfarm Burns conducted himself wisely, and likeone anxious for his name as a man, and his fameas a poet. He went to Dunscore kirk on Sun¬day, and assisted in forming a reading club. Healso paid particular attention to the education ofhis children, and assisted them greatly himself.Afterwards, however, on the failure of his farmingprojects, the gloom which preyed on his spiritsmade him too often not unwilling to become thecompanion of the thoughtless and the dissipated.Yet, in spite of these follies, Burns was never de¬serted by that deep feeling of honour and inde¬pendence of spirit which led him always to detestwhatever was mean or base ;* and none could i* Burns’s disinterestedness and generosity could tbe shown in hundreds of instances, and the ex¬treme tenderness of his feelings was stronglyproved on one particular occasion when he flung »a bitter curse on a neighbouring farmer forwounding a hare, motioning him from his pre>se*ce, else he would throw him into the river.The following is an abstract from one of hisletters, and shows how much he hated the senseof pecuniary obligations :—“ Sir, it is said thatwe take the greatest liberties with our greatestfriends, and I pay myself a very high complimentin the manner in which I am going to apply theremark. I have owed you money longer thanever I owed it to any man.—Here is Ker’s ac¬count, and here are six guineas; and now, I don’towe a shilling to man, or woman either. But forthese dirty, dog’s-eared little pages, (Scotch bank-19condemn more severely, or feel deeper compunc¬tion and repentance for his errors, than he didi'j himself.It was unfortunate for Burns that he about thistime got embroiled with the Excise, who had beeninformed of some rash expressions, and it is be¬lieved rash actions, of which he was guilty in re¬lation to political matters. The French Revolu¬tion was then beginning to break out, and thefascinating glare with which it was at first sur¬rounded, misled, as every one knows, the minds ofmany men of virtue and understanding, and nonemore so, perhaps, than such as, like our poet,were embucd with the largest portion of philan¬thropy. The sickening horrors of that sanguinarydrama, as it came to unfold itself, of course soondispelled the illusion ; but at the early period wespeak of, the Revolution came recommended tothe wishes and sympathies of many. The interesti of his friends at the head of the Excise savedBurns, but his indiscretions were remembered fora time, and were the cause of much uneasiness to1 him. He was also in the habit of indulging ini jests on his new profession without much circum¬spection, but these were comparatively harmless.1 On one occasion, for instance, while glancing at1 what he considered the discreditable nature ofl his employ, he said, “ I have the same consola-[ notes,) I had done myself the honour to havewaited on you long ago. Independent of theobligations your hospitality has laid me under,the consciousness of your superiority in the rankof man and gentleman of itself was fully as muchas I could ever make head against ; hut to oweyou money too, was more than I could face.”ifV 20s lion, Ivow'pver, which I once beanl a recruiimgsergeant give to liis auditors on one of the streetsof Kilmarnock—‘ Gentlemen,1 said lie, ‘ I canassure you, for your further encouragement, thatours is the most blackguard corps under the crown-,consequently an honest man has the better chanceof promotion.1 ”But, in point of fact. Burns had too much dis¬crimination and good- sense to cherish deeply theabsurd notions of equality and other trumpeiyfoliies then prevalent, and he in pinny passages,ofbis correspondence distinctly avows that his jaco¬binism, like the jacobitism of the present day, wasmore a thing of whim and fancy than anythingelse-: It chimed in more with the romance of thepoet than the judgment of the n*ian.The concluding and most mournful part of oursketch must necessarily be brief. After continu¬ing to hold the farm for some time after enteringon his new duties, be came to the resolution ofabandoning Klliesland, and betaking himself alto¬gether to the revenue. His salary wUs advancedto £ 70; and although, as we have seen, his com¬pany was a good deal broken in upon, it is wellknown Burns discharged bis duties with faithful¬ness and accuracy. Towards the close of 1793 hewas employed as acting supervisor. During partof that year his youngest child lingered throughan illness, of which every week promised to hethe last, and when she was in the end cut off, thenerves of the poet, who had unceasingly watched ,her with the fondest solicitude, were shattered to ;an unusual degree. A cold which he subsequentlycaught completed the measure of bis ill health, and ,from this period may be dated the commencement jof that gradual decay which terminated in Ins-21(loath. Of this approaching pfrent he Was per-feetly sensible, and many of his letters at tiiistime broutlie the tenderest strains of resignationi and piety. One of these is as follows :—“ Are you deep in the language of consolation Pj I have exhausted in reflection every topic of com-; fort. A heart at case would have been charmedwith my sentiments and reasonings; but as to my¬self, I was like Judas Iscariot preaching the gos¬pel ; he might melt and mould the hearts of thosearound him, but his own kept its native incorrigi¬bility.—Still there are two great pillars that bearus up, amid the wreck of misfortune and misery;The one is composed of the different modifications; of a certain pohie, stubborn something in man,i known by the names of courage, fortitude, magna¬nimity. The otheu is made up of those feelingsj and sentiments, which, however the sceptic maydeny, or the enthusiast disfigure them, arc yet,1 I am convinced, original and component parts ofI the human soul; those senses of the mind, if Imay be allowed the expression, which connect usis with, and link us to those awful obscure realities—an all powerful and equally beneficent God—and a world to come, beyond death and the grave.I The first gives the nerve of combat, while a rayr; of hope beams on the field ;—the last pours theEbalm of comfort into the wounds which time cannever cure.“I do not remember, my dear Cunningham, that; you and I ever talked on the subject of religion atall. I know some who laugh at it, as the trick ofthe crafty few, to lead the undiscerning many ;or at most as an uncertain obscurity, which man¬kind can never know anything of, and with whichthey are fools if they give themselves much to do.22Nor would I quarrel with a man for his irreligion,any more than I would for his want of a musicalear. I would regret that he was shut out fromwhat, to me and to others, were such superlativesources of enjoyment. It is in this point of view,and for this reason, that I will deeply imbue themind of every child of mine with religion. If myson should happen to be a man df feeling, senti¬ment, and taste, I shall thus add largely to his en¬joyments. Let me flatter myself that this sweetlittle fellow who is just now running about mydesk, will be a man of a melting, ardent, glowingheart; and an imagination, delighted with thepainter, and rapt with the poet. Let me figure him,wandering out in a sweet evening, to inhale thebalmy gales, and enjoy the growing luxuriance of 1the spring; himself the while in the blooming youthof life. He looks abroad on all nature, and through •nature up to nature’s God. His soul, by swift,delighted degrees, is rapt above this sublunary •sphere, until he can be silent no longer, and burstsout into the glorious enthusiasm of Thomson,‘ These, as they change. Almighty Father, theseAre but the varied God.—The rolling yearIs full of theeami so on, in all the spirit ami ardour of thatcharming hymn.—These are no ideal pleasures ;they are real delights; and I ask what of the de¬lights among the sons of men are superior, not tosay, equal to them ? And they have this precious,vast addition, that conscious viitue stamps themfor her own ; and lays hold on them to bringherself into the presence of a witnessing, judging, ,and approving God.”Alluding one day to his expected dissolution,he said, he was well aware that his death%3would occasion some noise, aiul that every scrapbf his writing would be revived against him tothe injury of his future reputation ; that letters.|rnd verses written with unguarded and improperireedom, and which he earnestly wished to haveijpuried in oblivion, would be handed about by idleinanity or malevolence, when no dread of his re¬sentment would restrain them, or prevent the cen-I jsures of shrill-tongued malice, or the insidious sar~Mleasms of envy from pouring forth all their venomto blast his fame.From a village on the coast, where he had(gone for the benefit of sea-bathing, he returnedto Dumfries, the place of his residence, on the 18thof July 1796, with his constitution fast wearingout. In the words of an eye-witness, “Dum¬fries was like a besieged place. It was known he:Was dying, and the anxiety, not of the rich andijjpbe learned only, but of the mechanics and pea¬sants, exceeded all belief. Wherever two or threepeople stood together, their talk was of Furns.and of him alone. They spoke of his history—ofthis person—of his works—of his family—of hisfame—and of his untimely and approaching fate,(with a warmth and an enthusiasm which will everlendear Dumfries to my remembrance.”When approaching his last hour, says one ofhis biographers, on the authority of the physicianwho attended him, “ a tremour pervaded hisI frame, his tongue was parched, and his mind sunkinto delirium when not roused by conversation.On the second and third day the fever increased,and his strength diminished.” On the fourth day*July 21st 1796, Robert Burns died.On the 2.5th the remains of the poet were re¬moved to the Trades’ Hall, where they lay instrife ti>l ninrnirtg, and next day were, inferredwith military honours, attended by a jirocession ofthe chief persons in the town and neighbourhood,and many from great distances. “ The multi¬tude,” says an eye-witness who accompanied Burnsto t'ne gi'ave, “ went step by step with the chiefmourners. They might amount to ten or twelve \thousand. Not a word was heard. It was an un- 3pressive and mournful sight to see men of alt jranks, and persuasions, and Opinion.*, mingling asbrothers, and stepping side by side down the streets |of Dumfries with the remains of him who had J1sung of their loves and joys, and domestic endear- |men is, with a Trnthand a tenderness which none |perhaps have since equalled; .... I found my- Jself at tfie brink of the poet's grave, into which heWas ebont to descend for ever. There was a pauseamong the mourners, as if loath to part with hisremains ; and when he was at jast lowered, andthe first shovelful of earth sounded on the coffin-lid, I looked up and saw tears on many cheekswhere tears were not usual. The volunteers firedthree volleys. The earth was heaped up, thegreen sod laid over him, and the multitude stoodgating on the grave for some minutes’ space, and Ithen melted silently away.”A costly-mausoleum lias since been erected tothe memory of the poet, on the highest point ofground in the church-yard, and thither the remainsof Burns were solemnly transferred on the 5thJune 1815. L